 

 

 

 

Results of additional Flag Days in the Birmingham Branch:

3. d.

Tipton 4O 3 0
Old Hill... 21 14 O
Cradley Heath 50 18 2
Black Heath 12 5 9
Pensnett... 7 12 1
Brierley Hill 32 6 2
£164 19 2

HOUSE—TO—HOUSE

(\Ve give, wherever possible, the place at which the housevto—
house collection was made and the name of the organizer or
organizers. )

£ 3. d.
Buckfast, Miss Carus (aux hon sec) 7 15 10
Bearpark and Ushaw Moor, Mrs Dixon (aux
hon sec) 26 10 5
Westham and Pevensey, Mrs Stuart Hogg (aux
hon sec) 21 3 4
Southport, Miss Richards (branch hon sec)... 138 15 O
Barnburgh, Mrs Mennell (aux hon sec) 11 3 9
Alvechurch, Mrs Ward (aux hon sec) 9 2 9
Ditton, Mrs Payne (aux hon sec) 1 13 6
Newark, Mrs Aldred 2 16 9
Formby, Mrs Bourhill (aux hon sec)... 36 19 11
Redhill, Miss Woollcombe—Boyce (aux hon sec) 29 11 9
Farnham, Mrs Ramsbottom (aux hon sec) 47 8 O
Rawtenstall, The Hon C. K. Brooks, JP (chair—
man, Bury Branch) 5O 5 9
Gerrards Cross, Mrs CarterrRuck (aux hon
sec) 44 3 1
Denton, Miss Wareing (aux hon sec) 4 3 l
Northﬂeet, Mrs Porter (Gravesend aux co ho
sec) 46 O 0

£ 5. d.

Dartford, Mrs Bradshaw (aux hon sec) 62 6 9

Darlington, Miss Graham (aux hon sec) 10 O O
Huddersﬁeld, Mr Stanley G. \Vatson (branch

hongensec) 4 9

Adderbury, Miss Jackson (aux hon sec) 4 6 6

Aberdare, Mrs Protheroe (aux hon sec) 35 3 9

LARGE BEGGING DOG BOX

Bideford (‘Maltscoop’), Mr Williams, landlord, £9 75.
(report from Miss Capper, Bideford aux hon sec);
Sheringham, Norfolk, £29 105. 1d. (report from Miss
Buchanan, aux hon sec); Reading (Littlewoods), £28 183. 9d.
(report from Miss Wadland, branch sec); Barrow—in—
Furness (Barrow Public Market), £18 55. %d.; Mine—
head (Hotel in the Avenue), £49 185. 4d. (report from

Miss Archer, aux hon sec)
RSPCA FILM NEWS

The Society’s ﬁlms were sent to the following places for
showing recently:

Haslemere, Hornchurch, Darlington, Whitley Bay, East
Ham, Putney, Withycombe Raleigh, North Battersea,
Manningtree, London Docks, Fyﬁeld, Canvey Island,
Tooting, West Bergholt, Harrow, Dagenham, Folkestone,
Andover, Woodmansterne, New Barnet, Pitsford, Run—
corn, North Shields, Ashtead, South Norwood, Moor
Row, Little Lever, Abergavenny, Ambleside, Leeds, Ash—
ford, Portsmouth, Pendine, Potters Bar, Gateshead, Sheer—
ness, Atherstone, Burton upon—Trent, Minehead, Roev
hampton, Little Bromley, Acton, Lancing, Merstham,
Croydon, Bournemouth, Hillingdon, Hartley, Windsor,
Woodbridge, Portreath, Sevenoaks, Canning Town, New
Cross, Rochdale, Sydenham, Cullompton, Birmingham,
Southsea, Boreham Wood, N. Hammersmith; Par, Cara
shalton, Westgate—on—Sea, Ruislip, Swansea, Kendal,
Great Yarmouth.

 

 

 

All inquiries to

Telephone: HOP 2476 (4 lines)
Telegrams: HOBSON, BOROH, LONDON

 

 

@NHE'CCDRMS

HOBSON & SONS
(LONDON) LTD

154-164 TOOLEY STREET
LONDON BRIDGE S.E.1

Manufacturers of l
UNIFORM CLOTHING

CAPS HELMETS LEATHER
BELTS POUCHES etc. etc H

Gold and Silver Laces
Embroideries of every
description for ALL
UNIFORMED SERVICES

PATTERNS OF CLOTH
and ESTIMATES
will be forwarded free of charge

 

 

 

 

 

DJ

 




 

 

 

January 1956

THEANIMAL WORLD 9

PIG lN PAIN: NEGLECTED

 

Photo by courtesy of the Chief Constable of Lancashire Constabulary

For causing unnecessary suffering to this pig a labourer was fined £7 and ordered to pay £l3 lls.
costs at Bamber Bridge. A farmer said that he noticed a pig wandering round his farm. There was a
large swelling on the leg (see the picture) and the animal appeared to be in pain. Three or four,
weeks later he saw the pig again and noticed that the condition appeared to be worse.

Inspector Clarke made investigations and gave evidence that the pig had a large abscess on the
hind leg and subsidiary abscesses on the body. He gave the animal a humane end. (A3706)

 

POISONED FOOD

A ~man at Slough was accused of leaving two
kippers containing poison in his garden without
taking sufﬁcient precaution to ensure that domes'
tic animals could not come to harm.

The man was charged with ‘laying poisonous
edible matter on land’. The summons was
brought by the RSPCA. He was ﬁned £5 and
ordered to pay £7 73. costs.

The neighbour told the court that she noticed
a kipper, folded and tied with cotton, on the
defendant’s side of the wire fence separating their
two gardens.

Next evening the kipper was left near an open
gate separating the gardens. Another kipper was
. at the bottom of the garden. Inspector Wilkinson
took possession of the kippers.

An analyst said the kippers contained yellow
phosphorus. About 0.1 of a gramme in each:
‘Enough to kill a human being,’ he added.

The defendant told the court he had laid the
poison to kill rats. He had also set a spring trap
with poisonous bait. When the RSPCA Inspector
had taken the kippers away he had put the trap
In a shed. (A.9460.)

DOG STAGGERED

The RSPCA prosecuted a labourer at Brigg
. Petty Sessions for unlawfully causing unnecessary
Suffering to a dog by neglect. He was ﬁned £10

and had to pay £3 35. costs. The dog was in such
a condition that a humane end had to be given.

He was disqualiﬁed for life from keeping a dog
or having a dog licence.

Evidence showed that Inspector Grant found
a brindle crossbred Whippet bitch, about
twelve months old, extremely emaciated at the
defendant’s address. The claws of the dog were
abnormally overgrown through lack of exercise.
The condition of the animal was such that when
she walked she staggered from side to side.

A heavy chain tethered the dog to the kennel.

The kennel was without any bedding and the

‘ﬂoor was covered with mouldy bread crusts and

old dried meat bones. There Was no sign of
food or water having been put out recently.

(A.9632.)

OBITUARY

With sincere regret we report the following
deaths: Mr J. J. Atherton, supporter; Mrs J. W.
Wood, supporter; The Rev Canon J. W. Craw—
ford Murray, Chairman of Surrey—Sutton
branch; Mrs Mitchell, hon sec Capel Auxiliary;
Miss Broadhurst, co hon sec Whitwick Auxiliary;
Miss Holland, hon sec Fairwarp Auxiliary; Miss
F. M. Grewcock, hon sec Claybrooke; The Rev
P. L. Quillet, chairman, London NE branch;
Miss Joan Jagger, former hon sec Llangollen
Division.

 




 

January 1956

CRUELTY TO POULTRY
Gibraltar Branch Acts

The recent smuggling of live poultry from
Spain into Gibraltar was a cause of suffering
to the birds, since they arrived in sacks hidden
under vegetables, or in inaccessible places in
vans—sometimes packed under the ﬂoors of
these vans.

Writing of the cruelty of the practice, Mrs D.
Ellicott, a member of the RSPCA Gibraltar
Branch Committee, said in a letter to RSPCA
Headquarters: ‘the birds often arrive at the
market suffocated or with broken bones’.

Because of the risk to health, the importation
of dead birds (which might have died from any
cause) was not encouraged, and the export of
live poultry from Spain to Gibraltar has long
been illegal. Despite this, there had been a certain
trafﬁc, and the temptation to smuggle poultry
had arisen recently because of the tightening of
regulations.

THEANIMALWORLD 7

Alternative sources

The price of frozen fowls from other parts of the
world is prohibitively high, and the Gibraltar
Branch, with the backing of Headquarters, asked
the authorities whether there were any currency
restrictions to prevent the import of live poultry
from other sources nearby. An assurance has
been given that no currency difﬁculties exist and
that the efforts of the Branch in stamping out
cruelty will be supported.

Major Davenport, branch honorary secretary,
has sent to RSPCA Headquarters a copy of a
letter addressed by the branch to all persons con—
nected with the importation of poultry into
Gibraltar, as well as its sale there. In this letter,
the branch says that prosecutions will be insti—
tuted against any importer of poultry who, on
proper evidence, is found impOrting and receiving
poultry packed in a cruel way. The letter points
out that the handling of poultry in such a way is
an infringement of Subsection (b) of Section 5
of the Animals and Birds Ordinance, Chap. 6.

 

DYED BIRDS

Following recent disclosures that the dyeing of
Wild birds exported from the Far East to the
Continent was caused by the demands from
Continental countries, ' the RSPCA urged its
Continental sister societies to educate public
opinion to turn against the fashion. A reply re
ceived from the Danish SPCA shows that there
is no demand for artiﬁcially coloured wild birds
in Denmark. However, the Society will watch
and report as well as taking action if these birds
should at any time be introduced into that
country.

NEWS FROM GERMANY

 

t e RSPCA gave a grant to t e tersc u zverein fur
den Siegkreis Sitz Troisdorf to assist its endeavours to pro-
wde a Home for Stray Animals. This photograph has now
been received from Mrs A. H. Moss, an English worker for
the Society at Troisdorf, who has done so much in raising
fynds for the Home. lt shows Mrs Moss laying the founda-
t'0" stone of the new building. Othersjn the group are the
former Chairman, and the Secretary of the Socrety and
Police Commissioner.

 

 

MALTA G.C. JOINS THE FOLD

Malta aspires to have its own representa’
tives in the British Parliament and its
animal welfare workers have successfully
applied for their organization—the Malta
SPCA—to become a Branch of the RSPCA.
The RSPCA Malta Branch has an animal
ambulance, which tours the Island, and has
a dogs’ home at Floriana.

RSPCA Headquarters helped Malta
SPCA ﬁnancially before it became a branch
and help in this form has been given again.

Early this year Headquarters hopes to
send an ofﬁcial to Malta to help in the
organization of branch work.

 

 

Sn

SIX NAT IONALITIES HEARD
MESSAGE

One RSPCA lecturer, visiting an English school,
had children of six nationalities in his audience
when he spoke on the proper care and treatment
of animals. '

Since the last report 175 lectures were given in
Denbighshire, Devon, Wiltshire, Bedfordshire,
Widnes, Bromsgrove, Southport, Guilsﬁeld,
Taunton, Harrow and Stanmore. The Lyme
Regis Boys’ Club and Children’s Meetings at
Public Libraries in Finsbury, ECl and Tottenv
ham, N17, were also addressed.

Thirtyvnine new Animal Defender groups were
formed; 362 children joined the Headquarters
Group.

 

 




 

 

 

 

January 1956

in the intense heat. Also it was an inspiration

to see Mrs Merritt and another lady going ‘

round the market with buckets and basins of

water, bathing the pigs’ heads and giving them

some to drink. I have seen even the sheep take

some of the water. . . .’

A later report states that the Markets Com;
mittee have decided to cover all the pig pens at
their own expense, without contribution from

the RSPCA.

Gloucestershire

Inspector Heath has been particularly active in
the markets in his area and has succeeded in
obtaining greater comfort for the calves at
Berkeley Road Market, Stroud. At Charfield
Market he has obtained better watering facilities
for the cattle; while at Cirencester Market his
efforts have resulted in shelter being provided
for the pigs and calves.

Croydon Slaughterhouse

Drinking troughs and feeding racks have now
been installed in all pens, including those for
sheep and pigs, at the request of the local
Inspector. '

 

QUESTIONS IN PARLIAMENT
Dogs and Cats Imported
No less than 9,201 dogs and 733 cats were de’

tained in quarantine on arrival in Great Britain
during the ﬁve years up to December 31, 1954.
This information was given by Mr Amory in
the House of Commons in answer to a question
from Sir C. Taylor. The figures for the twelve
months up to September 30, 1955, were 1,854
dogs and 201 cats. There was no record that any
of these animals subsequently contracted rabies
in this country.
Experiments

Asked by Mr Peter Freeman whether he would
resume publication of the annual list of persons
licensed to conduct cruel experiments on animals
under the Cruelty to Animals Act, 1876, Major
LloydvGeorge said that he would not do so as he
did not think that the expenditure involved
would be justiﬁed.

Slaughterhouses
Mr Amory told Sir F. Medlicott that he was

having the whole subject of slaughterhouses
studied in the light of the recommendations of
the Interdepartmental Committee on Slaughter—
houses and of comments on those recommenda
tions by the interests concerned. Sir F. Medlicott
had asked whether the Minister of Agriculture,
Fisheries and Food was able to make a statement
on the future policy of the Government in rela—
tion to slaughterhouses.

THEANIMALWORLD 5

jOHNNY ‘GOODBULLET

A pedigree bulldog, johnny Goodbullet, is on the staﬁ' of
‘john Bull’s’ famous ‘Bullets’ Competition. One of his
activities is to sell badges and photographs of himself to
help the RSPCA—and so lend a paw to his less fortunate
friends.

In the picture below, johnny is seen at the RSPCA Christ-
mas Market at Seymour Hall, London. Receiving johnny’s
latest donation to the RSPCA—a cheque for £55 ls. 6d.—is
Miss Ellis Powell, better known as ‘Mrs Dale’ of the popular
BBC programme, ‘Mrs Dale’s Diary’.

 

 

HE WAS TIRED—SO LEFT HIS
CAT TO DIE!

A man was told at Mansﬁeld Magistrates’
Court that he had shown indifference to
suffering, after his ginger tom—cat had been
run over. He pleaded not guilty to a charge
of causing unnecessary suffering to the cat
and was told by the chairman of the Bench:
‘You were tired. So you went to bed, and
stand there and admit it.

‘It’s a disgraceful exhibition on your part.’

A solicitor prosecuting for the RSPCA
said that when Inspector Baldock, who
found the cat dead in the road, saw the
defendant and asked him why he did not
take steps to put the cat out of its misery,

he said, ‘I was too tired, so I went to
bed.’ B.382.

 

 

 

 




 

ROYAL SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS
Founded 1824 Headquarters: 105 Jermyn Street, London, S.W.1

P A T R O N S
HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN
HER MAJESTY QUEEN ELIZABETH, THE QUEEN MOTHER
HER ROYAL HIGHNESS PRINCESS ALICE COUNTESS OF ATHLONE
HER ROYAL HIGHNESS PRINCESS ARTHUR OF CONNAUGHT

PRESIDENT
PROFESSOR GILBERT MURRAY, OM, MA, DLItt, DCL, FBA

VICE-PRESIDENTS
SIR MALCOLM SARGENT, HON LLD, DMUS, FRCM, FRSA

THE EARL OF SHAFTESBURY, KP, PC COLONEL R. M. POWELL, DSO

THE COUNCIL

Chairman: THE RT HON LORD MERTHYR, DL, TD, JP
Vice-Chairman: *MRS WALLIS POWER, JP

 

*ALLIBERT, MRS FREEMAN, PETER, ESQ, MP *RATTRAV, R. F., ESQ, MA, PH.I)
*ALSOP, ALDERMAN A. J., FRCA, FCIS, JP *HARVEY, MRS J. w., MA RISELEY, MRS R. C.

ANDERSON, L. K., ESQ., MRCVS, DVM. HOGG, s. R., ESQ, Dso, MC *RIECK, H. H., ESQ

BERTIE OF THAME, THE RT HON THE VISCOUNTEss HOWELL, BASIL P., ESQ, MBE SHAFTESBURY, THE RT HON THE COUNTESS OF
BRANSOM, MISS L. G., FRSA *HUNTER, MISS SIBLY, w. A., ESQ, MA, JP

BYWATER, H. E., ESQ., MRCVS LEE, MRS E. M. SNELL, THE REV PREBENDARY L. J. R., MBE, TD, JP
CONNICK, REV. WILLIAM, BD, HON CF LOCKWOOD, LT-COL J. C., JP, TD *TAIT, MRS, MA
*COOPER, ALDERMAN J. D., JP LONGMAN, MRS W. *WALFORD, MRS DESBOROUGH

DORCHESTER, LT-COL THE RT HON LORD, OBE, JP MOORE, LT-COL SIR THOMAS, CBE, MP *WHITE, HARRY, ESQ, FCA
*DOWDELL, MRS M. R. POULETT, THE RT HON THE EARL WILLERT, SIR ARTHUR, KBE
ESTCOURT-OSWALD, MISS AGNES, MB (LOND), DPH POWELL, COL R. M., Dso *WILLIAMS, THE REV H. L.
(CANTAB), DOMS *PRITCHARD, MRS D. *WINCHESTER, F. .l., ESQ, F05, F88

 

 

*EVANS, MRS DAVID, BA

* Denotes Branch Representative

 

OFFICE BEARERS APPOINTED BY THE COUNCIL

Hon Treasurer—LT-COL J. C. LOCKWOOD, J.P., TD
Deputy Hon Treasurer—HARRY WHITE, ESQ, FCA
Hon Medical Ofﬁcer—A. N. CRAWFORD, ESQ, FRCSI Legal Secretary—J. HALL, ESQ

Bankers—MESSRS COUTTS AND CO, STRAND, LONDON Chief Veterinary Ofﬁcer—MAJOR R. C. G. HANCOCK, BSC, MRCVS

Auditors—MESSRS VINEY, PRICE AND GOODYEAR, CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS

Chief Secretary—ARTHUR w. MOSS, ESQ, MBE, ACIS
Assnstant Secretary—D. A. L. CAMM, ESQ, BA

Telegrams—WHITEHALL 71 77 Telephone—Whitehall 7177

 

FLAG DAYS AND HOUSE TO HOUSE
COLLECTIONS—I956

We are informed by the General Secretary of the Royal Air
Forces Association that the Association proposes to organize
a house to house collection under an Order of Exemption
granted by the Home Secretary from September I0 to I5
inclusive. The National ‘Wings Day’ street collection will
take place on September IS. The Association hOpes these
dates will not clash with collections of other organizations,
but should this, unfortunately, happen the Royal Air Forces
Association suggest organizers get in touch with the General
Secretary, RAFA, 83 Portland Place, London, WI, in order
that an attempt be made to arrange dates amicably.

We take this opportunity again to remind Branches that
now is the time to make application for Street Collections
(Flag Days) for I956, and Headquarters will be pleased to
\ advise Branches should difficulties arise.

1 ...;. House to House collections, under the Order of Exemption
‘ \‘-.\ ‘ . issued to the RSPCA by the Home Office, can be made at any

' L, . time, but it is recommended that when a concentrated col-
SIMPlE g_‘ \ lection is being organized, the local Police Authority be
Q. ,\\\ \ informed, in order to avoid the possibility of a clash with a
SAFE. .
Sll RE 7f©ASH Xg

collection by another organization, which may be arranging
an effort at the same time. Headquarters will be pleased to
give Branches information as to procedure on request.

CAPTIVE BOLT PISTOL

FOR ALL ANIMALS

units no suIIvoKI no - BIRMINGHAM - s - tucunn

 

      

 

       
 

 

5456

 

 

. . ‘_ __ _.A i. ‘

 

 

1L—Jh——d|—-—l




 

 

 

 

January 1956

THEANIMALWORLD ' 11

 

show was given .by MI‘S_ Upton on ‘Bird Life’ at the home of
Mrs White, Birling aLIXlilaI'y hon sec, and £7 105, was raised
for branch funds.

Mrs Williams, branch committee member, organized a
whist drive at the Queen’s Head Hotel, Maidstone, and
raised £12. Senior InspectorChecksﬁeld was present and Mrs
Ronald Haynes presented the prizes. (Reports from Mrs
K. D. Simmonds, branch hon organizing sec.)

Mrs K. D. Simmonds reports that the branch annual

Christmas Fayre held at the Corn Exchange, Maidstone,
raised £90 for branch funds. Sir Alfred Bossom opened the
Fayre.
Kettering, Thrapston and Wellingborough Miss Masters,
Wellingborough auxiliary hon sec, reports that Mr and Mrs
Carter, of Great Doddington, organized a whist drive and
raised £7 for branch funds.

Mrs A. Davis, Corby aux hon sec, reports that a beetle
drive raised £1 10s. 9d.
Lancashire~East, and Blackburn Mrs E. Tomlinson,
Blackburn auxiliary co hon sec, reports that a white elephant
stall at Blackburn Market raised £40 for branch funds.
Lincolnshire——South, and Grantham Mrs Henry Brace,
branch president, took the chair at the branch annual
meeting held in Grantham. Mr Harry White, Council
Member, was the speaker and also presented three members
of Grantham Fire Station with RSPCA framed certiﬁcates
of merit for rescuing a pigeon from a church tower. A bring
and buy stall raised over £16 for branch funds. (Report
from Miss N. V. M. Pim, branch co hon sec.)
Loughborough and North Leicestershire A coffee morning
and bring and buy sale raised £4 103. for branch funds. The
sale was held in the home of Mrs Cowman, Ashfordby
auxiliary hon sec. (Report from Miss Harridge-Cayless
branch hon sec.)
Macclesﬁeld, South-East Cheshire and Buxton Mrs Whiston
and Miss Martin organized a whist drive at the Rainbow
Institute and raised £9 55. for branch funds. Senior Inspector
Cook was present.

Air-Commodore A. V. Harvey presented seventeen
RSPCA awards at the branch ‘Presentation of Awards’ held
at the Town Hall, Macclesﬁeld, to airmen, quarry workers,

potholers, Boy Scouts and RSPCA Inspectors for their

attempts to rescue ‘Mandy’, a spaniel, trapped in a ﬁssure
in the rocks at Swythamley. The hero of the rescue .bld Was
thirteen-year—old Brian Perkins of Leek, who received the
Margaret Wheatley Cross. , _

Among those present was the Rev H. L. Williams, branch
chairman and Council Member. .
Merthyr Tydfil and District An RSPCA framed certiﬁcate
was presented to Inspector Watts by the Mayor of Merthyr
Tydﬁl (Coun Frank Everson) at the'branch annual meeting,
held at the Peter Pan Cafe, Merthyr, for rescuing a sheep
frOm a crevice on Penrhys Mountain. The lent honsecre-
taries’ report was presented by Miss Geraldine LeWis who
outlined the work “of the branch during the pastOyear. The
ﬁnancial, report was given by Mr A. W. T. Williams. Mrs
David Evans, Council Member, spoke on the work of the
RSPCA. Inspector Watts reported that he had investigated
100 complaints of cruelty. .

Branch oﬁicials were re-elected en bloc. They are: preSi—
dent, Canon A. Lloyd Jones; chairman, Mr George Rogers:
hontreasurer, Mr K. Howells; joint hon'secs, Miss G.

CWIS and Mrs H. Vaughan. .

Middlesex——North West Mr R. Soames, branch hon sec,
reports that Senior Inspector Hancock has spoken to the
Harrow Citadel Torch Bearer Group of the Salvation Army
and to the Odeon Cinema, Kenton, Children‘s Cinema Club.
Newcastle-upon-Tyne Miss Dodd, Warkworth auXiliary
hon 360, organized an exhibition of dolls at the Memorial
Hall, Warkworth. The sum of £18 25. 3d. was raised for
branch funds.

Norfolk—Mid, and Norwich A whist drive was held in the
Village Hall, Long Stratton, and raised £30 85. 4d. for branch
funds. Sir Richard Barrett Lennard, branch chairman,
thanked Mr and Mrs Butler, the latter being auxiliary hon
sec for Long Stratton, for organizing the drive and all who
had helped to make the evening a success. The prizes were
presented by Lady Barrett Lennard. Mr Chapman Fretter
was MC.
*

Mrs Hampson-Jones, Drayton auxiliary hon sec, organized
a whist drive and raised £16 155. 100’. for branch funds.
Northumberland West A whist drive held at Bellingham
raised £10 Ss. 5d.
Nottingham and Notts Col Peter Clifton, branch chairman,
presented RSPCA bronze medals and certiﬁcates to In-
spector Baldock, Derrick Cutts, clinic assistant, and Colin
Cutts, and an RSPCA certiﬁcate to Mr P. M. Gray, veter-
inary surgeon, for rescuing a sow and her two piglets from
a 20 ft. deep constantly subsiding cavity. The presentation
was made at the Old Meeting House, Mansﬁeld. Mr Harry
White, Council Member and branch hon sec, read the cita-
tion for the awards. Miss R. Manners, chairman of Mans—
ﬁeld auxiliary, presided. (Report from Miss M. P. Cooper,
Mansﬁeld auxiliary hon sec.)
Oxford Miss Barbara M. Barton, Witney auxiliary hon
sec, reports that their jumble sale raised £54 125. for branch
funds.
Peterborough and District A pet dog show was organized
by the RSPCA in conjunction with the Odeon Cinema
Children’s Club, Peterborough. The show was held in the
Odeon Car Park and the entries were judged by Chief
Inspector Miles.
Rotherham and District Mrs H. Belﬁeld of Ulley organized
a whist drive and raised £6 10s. for branch funds.
Shropshire The Mayoress, accompanied by the Mayor,
presented an RSPCA certiﬁcate to Bridgnorth Boys’ Club.
Their members rescued a heifer whilst camping at Worﬁeld.
Inspector S. Jones was present.

Mrs Tringham, Oswestry auxiliary hon sec, reports that
a bring and buy sale held in Oswestry raised £42 for branch
funds. The Mayor of Oswestry opened the sale.

Mrs Meredith, branch hon sec, reports that a bring and
buy sale was organized by the Viscountess Hill and Lady
Berwick. The sum of £56 was raised for branch funds.
Southport, Birkdaie and District Miss Richards, branch hon
sec, reports that a coffee morning and bring and buy sale
was organized by Mrs Hammerton, a member of Formby
auxiliary committee, and raised £15 for branch funds.

 

Agricultural Show, Bury (left to right): Mrs G. Schoﬁeld,
Whiteﬁeld aux hon sec; Mrs Hopkinson, Bury (Lancs) and
District Branch hon sec (holding puppy); lnspector Dawson;
small boy, jeramy Hopkinson and animal defenders reading

leaflets.

 




ANIMALTHEWORLD

THE OFFICIAL MAGAZINE OF THE RSPCA

 

Vol LI No 1

New Series

JANUARY I 956

PRICE THREEPENCE
4s. 6d. per annum. Post Paid

ILLUMINATIONS, BUT NO DAZZLE

Blackpool in the autumn is justly famed for its
Illuminations, but the local Branch of the
RSPCA has not let itself be dazzled by them.
Through the glare of the coloured lights, the
Branch has looked steadily and recognized a duty
it owed to animals and has not ﬂinched fro
performing it. ~

A statement culled from the report of Inspector
Heyes will show us the problem:

‘During the Blackpool Autumn Illuminations’
(writes the Inspector) ‘when only one~way
trafﬁc is permitted, often with four vehicles
abreast, for a distance of five miles or so the
horses are half blinded by millions of electric
light bulbs in a variety of colours. . . .’

Guided by the normal RSPCA principle
that animals shall not be allowed to suffer
through the pursuit by humanity of its own
pleasure, the Branch argued that, during the
period of the Illuminations, horse—drawn
vehicles should not be allowed on the Black—
pool Promenade.

In 1950, an Order forbidding their use was
issued by the Mayor with the approval of the
local Council, but it was not renewed by the
succeeding Mayor, although he was asked to do
so by the RSPCA.

The RSPCA Branch held ﬁrmly to the belief
that horses should be spared the ordeal of
Illumination—time, with its bewildering cone
gestion of traffic. The Branch continued its agita~
tion on the animals’ behalf, and, in September of
last year, Mr Arthur F. Warner, Chairman of the
RSPCA Blackpool Branch, published in the local

Press a letter from which an extract reads:

‘Anyone who has seen the horses on the
Promenade, especially at weekends, wedged
among the tremendous motor coach and car
trafﬁc, must have been heartbroken at their
plight, having to breathe nothing but exhaust
fumes all along the Promenade. . . . We ask
all who have the interest of the horses at heart
. and who wish to support the Society in its
endeavours to remove, a blot on Blackpool’s
good name to write a postcard at once to their

representatives on the Town Council, urging

them to support the ban being again intrOa

duced. . . .’

To such purpose did the Branch campaign that
horse~drawn passengerrcarrying vehicles were
banned from the promenade on Saturday and
Sunday evenings during the period of the Autumn
Illuminations. An attempt by the District Landau
Association to lift the ban was thwarted.

The Blackpool Branch of the RSPCA is to be
congratulated on its vigilance and the success it
achieved.

For us all, there is a lesson in this story. It brings
home to us the effectiveness of agitation when it
backs an alert concern for animal welfare. Without
the support the Branch obtained among the humane
people of Blackpool, its campaign could not have
achieved success.

The moral is that we do not know the number and
strength of our supporters until we proclaim our
purpose and thus let them know that help is needed
for obtaining some advance in animal welfare.

EDITOR

 

OLD MARE

 

Chief lnspector Evans sends this photograph of a Red Roan
Mare Pony, aged 48. jessie, the pony, is shown with the
owner, Mr C. Hackett of Kingswood, Kington. The Chief
Inspector describes jessie as being in remarkable condition.
She is fed with specially ground food as her front teeth are
practically worn away with age. jessie does not work.

 




Incorporating 6The Winged Messen er’

 

VOLUME LI N0 THREEPEN CE JANUARY 1956

‘I stand by my friends!’
(See story, jOHNNY GOODBULLET, inside)

THE OFFICIAL ORGAN OF THE RS‘PCA

 




 

 

January 1956

 

THEANIMALWORLD _ 3

MONKEYS AND BIRDS

Recently, at India House, London, a deputation
from the RSPCA Council, comprising Mr B. P.
Howell, MBE, and Mr Peter Freeman, MP, was
sympathetically received by Her Excellency the
High Commissioner for India, Mrs Pandit, when
it repeated protests made by a deputation in
February last on the enormous volume of traffic
in monkeys between India and the USA, in the
main for medical research involving cruel experia
mentation. The RSPCA is opposed to all forms
of painful experiments on animals; as an animal;
protection society it must be.

Since the beginning of January and up to the
end of September, 1955, an approximate total
of 69,000 monkeys left India for the USA via
England. The deputation expressed its gratitude
for the regulations brought into force subsequent
to the last occasion when a deputation waited
on the High Commissioner for India, and fOr the
improvement in the regulations governing the
conditions of transport.

These regulations insist, among other
things, that air transport only should be used,
and they forbid the export of diseased or
pregnant monkeys. The deputation urged-that
the export of monkeys for experimental pur-
poses should be banned.

Wild Birds

The trafﬁc in Wild birds was another subject on
which the deputation spoke. It urged that this
traffic on its present scale should also be banned.
Figures compiled by the RSPCA show that be’
tween the beginning of this year and the end of
September, approximately half a million birds,
in the main Java sparrows and ﬁnches, have been
exported from the Far East via London, intended
for sale mainly in Europe. The deputation pointed
out that not only do the birds suffer in transit,
but that all of them are destined to spend their
lives as prisoners in unsuitable cages.

The deputation mentioned that the birds,
far from having any particular charm as pets,
had to be dyed to give them a special attrac—
tion, and the dyeing process was painful,
often resulting in death, apart from the other
suffering involved in the catching and trans—
port.

Evidence in‘ support of these points was left at
India House, and the High Commissioner prom;
ised to transmit the information for consideration
by the Government of India.

 

 

 

 

 

(Photo by courtesy of the DAILY MIRROR)

SADlSM IN THE NURSERY

A spokesman in a West End of London Store said that he
regarded the toy illustrated above as a ‘stocking ﬁller’ for
Christmas. It is a mechanical snake with a mouse in its jaws.
lt wriggles and writhes when wound up.

The RSPCA appealed to the management to withdraw the toy. In the opinion of the Society,
it could only do harm to children and must undermine the good work of animal welfare workers,
who have striven so hard for the better treatment of animals.

The management was quick to appreciate the RSPCA view. lt withdrew the toy from all its
branches and returned the whole stock to the suppliers. The toy was made in Germany.

  
 
 

 




THEANIMAIWVORLD

[\J

January 1956

‘

 

 

; Saws-Is“- 7:

THE RSPCA AT WORK

 

NOVEMBER 1955

RSPCA INSPECTORS

2,016 Complaints of cruelty invesigated.
67 Offenders ﬁned.
54 Persons guilty of minor acts of cruelty cautioned in writing.

708 Registered cautions were administered by Inspectors.

CLASSIFICATION OF CONVICTIONS
HORSES—Working in an unﬁt state, neglecting, terrify—

ing . . . ... . .. . . . 6
SHEEP—Beating, improperly tethering, neglecting 3
PIGS—*Improperly conveying .. 1
DOGS—Neglecting, starving, improperly killing, inciting

to ﬁght, injuring with missile, kicking, conveying

improperly 24
CATS—Neglecting, throwing to ground, starving 9
FOWLS—Carrying head downwards, exposing unﬁt,

starving .. 5
PIGEON—Improperly conveying 1
GOAT—Neglecting 1
GULL—Injuring 4
OEEENCES UNDER THE PROTECTION OF BIRDS ACT, 1954:

, Conﬁning birds in small cages 2
All Being in possession of recently taken birds 2

Using bird lime 2

Selling 2

Offering for sale 3

Setting spring trap 6
VARIOUS OEEENCES:

Infringement of Transit of Animals (A) Order,

1931 6

TOTAL NUMBER OF CONVICTIONS

l 3

During NOVEMBER 1955, Magistrates, at the request of the
/ RSPCA, disqualiﬁed SEVEN persons from owning a dog or
holding a dog liCence. Disqualiﬁcations were as follows:

ONE for 2 years; ONE for 10 years; FIVE for 5 years.

V Total number of COMPLAINTS from January Ist 26,289
Total number of CONVICTIONS from January Ist 973
Total number of CAUTIONS from January Ist 9,167

HEADQUARTERS CLINICS

No. of animals handled:
Cats 3,481 Dogs 2,638 Misc. 662

No. of animals given emergency ﬁrst—aid: 2,224

PUTNEY CONVALESCENT WARD

No. of animals handled:
Cats 33 Dogs 11 1

Total 6,781

.Nlisc. 5 Total 149

NIGHT STAFF

No. of calls received: 1,168
Miles covered by ambulance in respect of urgent calls: 2,034
No. of animals rescued: 5

No. 0 cases treated by veterinary sur reon: 215
. . S

NORTH WALES UNIT

First—aid cases:

Cats 20 Dogs 40 Misc. 3 Total 63
No. of other animals handled by Unit:
Cats 83 Dogs 51 Misc. Nil. Total 134

No. of miles covered by the Unit during the month: 2,320

AWARDS

Cases considered 53_
Bars to Bronze Medals 2
Bronze Medals 14
Certiﬁcates of Merit 24
RECORDS FOR 1954
INSPECTION
COMPLAINTS 27,790
CONVICTIONS 872
CAUTIONS 9,657

HEADQURTEARS CLINICS
Number of animals handled: 151,109

NIGHT STAFF
Number of calls: 18,849

NORTH WALES UNIT
Number of animals handled: 2,537

AWARDS
Silver Medals for Animal Life Saving... 12
Bronze Medals for Animal Life Saving 65
Bars to Bronze Medals 6

Merit Certiﬁcates for Animal Life Saving 12
Margaret Wheatley Cross 1

 

 

 




 

4 THEANIMALWORLD

 

January 1956

DROUGHT!

The serious plight of thirsty animals in the drought last sum-
mer was relieved at Edge Mount Farm, Bradfield, near
Shefﬁeld, when the RSPCA enlisted aid from the RAF who
provided a tanker to supplement RSPCA lnspector W. G.
Burr’s efforts to get water to 40 cattle.

Until the tanker arrived, the RSPCA lnspector had been
loading his van with water-filled milk churns—one farmer
alone had asked for 2,000 gallons.

Photos by courtesy of ‘The Star’ Sheffield

 

 

RSPCA ACHIEVEMENTS

Tring
Senior Inspector Slater reports that, early in the
year, ﬁve big trees were cut down to make room
for extra cattle pens and a car park, with the
result that the pigs and calves were deprived of
the shade the trees had provided. The Inspector
therefore approached the auctioneer with a
request that overhead cover should be supplied
and a windbreak of galvanized iron installed
round the calf pens. The work was carried out
forthwith and a letter of appreciation and thanks
has been sent by RSPCA Headquarters to the

auctioneer.
Coal Shafts

Thanks to the efforts of Inspector Adams, two
disused coal shafts at Bowson Green, near Cinder—
ford, have been ﬁlled in. For some time past,
they had been death traps to straying animals,
but an interview with Forestry Commission
ofﬁcials at Coleford was the means of putting an
end to the menace.

Guildford Market

As a result of ceaseless pressure on the part of
the Guildford and District Branch, urgently
needed improvements are to be carried out in
Guildford Market, which will include covered
pig pens. The following is an extract from Chief
Inspector Ryan’s report on the matter:

‘. . . A deputation consisting of the Branch
Chairman, ViceaChairman, Hon Secretary,
Mrs Merritt and myself met the Chairman,
Vice—Chairman of the Markets Committee, the
Markets Superintendent and the Deputy
Borough Surveyor. We urged the provision 0
covering for the pig pens, which are in the
open, and stressed the amount of suffering
caused to the pigs in the cold weather and in
the hot sun. The Branch Chairman stated
that the Branch would be prepared to pay up
to perhaps a third of the cost. . . . During the
hot weather, I had frequently to get the hoses
turned on to keep the pigs from collapsing

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

6 THEANIMALWORLD

January 1956

 

Reprinted from the ‘Manchester Guardian’, with
acknowledgments

RSPCA DISTURBED BY ITA SHOWING
OF BULLFIGHT FILM

Exchange of Letters ‘with Sir Kenneth Clark
The chief secretary of the RSPCA, Mr Arthur W.

Moss, said in London recently, that members of
his society were disturbed by the fact that a ﬁlm
on bullﬁghting was shown on commercial telee
vision, and that there seemed to be no guarantee
that the same sort of thing might not happen
again. ‘Our chief concern is for the children who
were watching the programme’, he said.

‘Our sOciety spends a great deal of time and
money trying to teach children not to be cruel to
animals. One wonders how much of this good
work is wiped out when youngsters watch a pro;
gramme which depicts grownvups being deliber—
ately cruel to bulls and horses.’

Mr Moss referred to an exchange of letters
which took place before the programme was
broadcast. A letter he sent to Sir Kenneth Clark,
the chairman of the Independent Television
Authority, said in part:

‘I realize that your contractors have the task
of providing entertainment for a variety of tastes,
but no one can reasonably expect entertainment
at the expense of animal suffering. Bullﬁghting

was made illegal in this country in 1835. The 4

presentation of scenes of bullﬁghting is wrong
for two reasons: ﬁrst, that it shows cruelty, and
second, that it shows something that the law will
not allow to take place in this country. On these
grounds I do feel that you would be justiﬁed in
stopping the showing of this ﬁlm.’

Being Considered

Mr Moss said that two days before the pro—
gramme was due to go on the air a reply was sent
to the RSPCA from the Deputy Director—
General of the ITA, stating on behalf of Sir
Kenneth Clark that these representations were
receiving ‘most careful consideration’. The pro—
gramme went on the air as scheduled.

Mr Moss said that his society was concerned
about the fact that there seemed to be no set
procedure for registering protests or appealing
against decisions in regard to television prOv
grammes. He called the situation ‘a Gilbertian
paradox’, in that the British people went to great
trouble to ensure by Act of Parliament that
children should not see horror in the form of
comic books, but that nothing was done to
prevent their seeing it on the television screen.

i A spokesman for the ITA said in London that
matters such as this were dealt with in Section 3,
Subsection 1, of the Television Act, which
requires that nothing should be broadcast which

offends good taste or decency, which is likely
to incite to crime or disorder, or which is likely
to be offensive to public feelings.

Not Censorship

He continued: ‘13 this censorship? That is just
what it is not. The system, of course, is just
being evolved, but any objection to the content
of a programme is lodged with the board of the
ITA and may be dealt with by the chairman. In
practice the onus for observing good taste rests
on the contractors. ,

‘We have appointed what we believe to be
responsible contractors. From time to time the
contractors bring particular ideas to our attenv
tion if they are in any doubt about them. Finally
there is the standing consultative committee on
which the contractors and the authority are
represented, which meets every fortnight and
provides an occasion for policy discussion.’

A spokesman for the BBC said that the Cor—
poration had received one or two telephone calls
after the programme, although it had been
broadcast on commercial television. These were
from viewers who had disliked the programme
and were not sure where to register their protest.

He added: ‘We know our public and we
believe we know what offends them. On this
question of showing a bullﬁght on the television
screenthe answer is that we wouldn’t do it. Our cri’
terion is good taste, rather than any set of detailed
rules in hard—andvfast terms. Our producers have
the respOnsibility of seeing that standards of
good taste and decency are observed. They are
responsible through their department heads to
the Controller of Programmes.’

Parliamentary Question

Mr J. A. Sparks, MP, asked the Postmaster—
General if he was aware that the Independent
Television Authority screened a ﬁlm depicting a
Spanish bullﬁght. As bullﬁghting and bull;
bating were illegal in this country, would he take
action under Section 9 (2) of the Television Act,
1954, to require the authority to refrain from
broadcasting subjects of this nature in future.
Dr Charles Hill stated in a written reply that
the responsibility for ensuring that the programme
contractors complied with the Act rested on the
Independent Television Authority. ‘1 do not
regard the programme referred to by Mr Sparks,’
e added, ‘as justifying the issue of a direction
under the section.’
(NOTE: The RSPCA will continue to agitate
against the showing of this type of material on
television and urges its supporters to protest,

Whenever the need arises, to the correct au—
thorities.)




 

8 THEANIMALWORLD

HEROES’ CORNER
COWS SAVED FROM ELECTRO CUTION

Two men who received violent electric shocks
each time they touched the yokes to unfasten
cows tied up in a shippen at Loyton Farm,
Morebath, Tiverton, have each been awarded the
RSPCA bronze medal for gallantry in the rescue
of animals. They are Mr F. Burton and Mr C.
Crudge.

Twenty Guernsey cows were yoked in the

shippen to tubular steel ﬁttings. Immediately after ,

the last cow had been fastened, all the steel yokes
and ﬁttings became electriﬁed through a fault,
and the current could not be cut off as the switch
was some distance away in a locked building, for
which the key was not available.

Mr F. Burton, the cowman, ﬁrst became aware
that something was amiss when the cows began
to struggle and kick. He called the help of the
bailiff, Mr C. Crudge, and between them they
succeeded in unfastening every yoke, thus saving
the lives of all but three of the cows. These three
animals were electrocuted, despite the valiant
efforts of the rescuers. ,

The shocks sustained by the men increased in
intensity as each cow was released, because of
decreasing electrical resistance. Mr Burton was
indisposed for two days after the incident.

RSPCA Headquarters has suggested that
the main switch should be moved, as a pre—
caution against any such untoward incident
in the future. The suggestion has been ac—
cepted and the switch moved to a more

 

GUERNSEY CASUALTY

   
     

Photo by courtesy of the Guernsey Weekly Press ‘

Col. R. M. Powell, Vice-President of the RSPCA, has

drawn our attention to this picture, which appeared with

the caption: Miss Marjorie Ozanne, pictured with the

thousandth bird to receive her care and attention at the

‘hospital’ which she runs at Bon Air, Les Adams, St Peter’s,
Guernsey.

.a:

January 1956

accessible place, so that in emergency the
electric current may be cut off without delay.

LAMB ON SHOULDER

The owner of a boxer dog had searched day and
night for the dog, who had fallen over Lees Cliffs,
Ilfracombe, but his efforts were in vain until,
from half way down the cliff, there reached his
ears the occasional pitiful barking of a dog.

Mr Kenneth Vincent VOIunteered to go to the
rescue. The dog was located about 100 ft. down
the cliff and was standing unhurt on a ledge
about 3 ft. wide. With an RSPCA Inspector
directing operations, Mr Vincent was lowered by
rope, carrying a second rope for the dog. After
hazardous effort, Mr Vincent was able to send
the dog to safety and was then himself hauled to
the cliff head.

Whilst these operations were in progress, a
sheep’s bleating was heard from somewhere down
the cliff. With the ropes still attached to him, Mr
Vincent insisted on going down again. He knew
the difficulties involved and yet was prepared to
face them.

Locating the animal was not easy, but at
last Mr Vincent had chosen the spot from
which he asked to be lowered. When, later,

,he was hauled to the top, he had across his

shOulders the lamb whom he had brought
from terror to safety.

Bronze Medals

For his bravery, Mr Vincent has been awarded
the RSPCA bronze medal, and the same award
has gone to:

Mr R. Lewis, Mr Bond and Police Sergeant
Evans, for rescuing a sheep from a cliff ledge,
Eglwyseg, Lla'ngollen; Mr J. Rice and Mr D.
Thomas, for rescuing two cows from marshland,
River Towy, Carmarthen and for rescuing a cow
from a ditch, near River Towy; Mr W. A. Rice,
for rescuing two cows from marshland, River
Towy; Mr A. Needham, for rescuing a sheep
from a quarry, Montcliffe, Rivington; Mr Fowler,
for rescuing an oiled swan from the River Don,
ROtherham; Deputy Chief Fire Ofﬁcer B. Drakev
ford, for rescuing an Alsatian from a railway
cutting, Warmsworth, Doncaster; Police Cone
stable Evans, for rescuing a sheep from a cliff,

Porth Melgan Bay, St Davids, Pembs.

Bars to Bronze Medals

Two RSPCA Inspectors who already hold bronze
medals have received bars as awards for bravery.
They are Chief Inspector Morrison, who res
cued a mare from a dyke at Setch Bank, King’s
Lynn, and Inspector A. Rhodes, who, by capturing

a baboon in East Street, Faversham, spared the
animal distress.

 

 

 




 

10 THEANIMALWORLD

January 1956

 

BRANCH NEWS

Kim, whose picture
comes from

Mrs Edwards,
Welwyn Garden City,
seems proud of his
whiskers—3 inches
long!

     

Animals’ Help Society The ﬁrst general meeting of this
branch was held at Goldhawk Road, Shepherd’s Bush,
London. Mrs W. Longman (member of the RSPCA Council)
was in the chair. The formation of this new branch arose
from the amalgamation with the RSPCA of the Animals’
Help Society (Inc) founded many years ago by the Misses
Allport, well-known animal lovers. The members of the
provisional committee appointed to administer the affairs
of the new branch when formed, were re-elected en bloc at
' the general meeting, and consisted of representatives of the
late Council of the Animals’ Help Society, of the RSPCA
branches of Chiswick, Ealing and West London, and of the
RSPCA St John Partridge Memorial Clinic, Fulham.
Ashton, Stalybridge, Mossley, Hyde, Glossop and District
A bring and buy sale organized by Mrs W. S. Schoﬁeld,
Ashton auxiliary hon see, was held at the RSPCA Clinic.
The sum of £47 23', 3d. was raised for Clinic funds.

Balham and Tooting Mrs E. F. Taylor, Balham Animal
Clinic join hon sec, reports that a bazaar raised £146 8s. 5d.
for Clinic funds.

Berkshire—Newbury and District Mrs Hide, Overton aux-
iliary hon sec, reports that a sale raised approximately
£20 for branch funds.

Blackpool Mr Arthur Warner, branch chairman, presented
the RSPCA cup and medal for the best-conditioned stud of
donkeys on Blackpool sands to Mr Sidney Clews, president
of the Blackpool Sands Donkey Owners’ Association. Mr
Warner, making the presentations, congratulated the
owners on the ﬁne condition of the donkeys.

Bournemouth and District. Mrs Felling, Ringwood aux co
hon sec, reports that their jumble sale raised £51 143. 1d. for
branch funds.

Bromley and District (Kent) Mrs V. K. Syer, West Wick-
ham auxiliary hon sec, report that the ‘At Home’ raised £20
for branch funds.

Buckinghamshire Mrs Sigg of Wolverton organized a

children’s concert and raised £6 13s. 3d. for branch funds. '

 

Photo by courtesy of the Western Mail 8: Echo

Mr George Cansdale opens the Monmouthshire Fete, held
at The Priory, Caerleon, by kind permission of Miss Ethel
Radcliffe, Branch President. Left to right are: Mrs Pughe—
Evans (Branch hon sec),_the‘Mayor of Newport(Coun Mrs
Letitia Bell), Mr Cansdale, Mr C. T. Stephens (Branch

Chairman), and Mrs Talbot Laybourne.

Cambridgeshire Mrs Scratton, branch hon sec, reports that
Mrs Morly, Linton auxiliary hon sec, raised £15 3s. 6d.
from a whist drive and Miss Sheppard of Caldercot realized
£16 133. by a jumble sale. .
Carmarthenshire A collection at the Lyric Theatre raised
£34 5.9. 5d. for branch funds. (Report from Mr A. C. Mitchell,
branch hon sec.)

Denbighshire—East, and Rhyl Mr F. J. Winchester,

Council Member, addressed members at the branch annual

meeting on the work of the RSPCA. (Report from Mrs
Ernest Black, branch hon sec.)

Dorset—North Mr Hugh Ricketts, branch hon sec, reports:
Mrs Baker, West Moors aux hon sec, organized a whist
drive and raised £60 for branch funds. A whist drive organ-
ized by Miss M. Daniel, Verwood auxiliary hon sec, raised
£9 5s. 6d.

Ealing and District Mrs H. Moss, Isleworth auxiliary hon
sec, organized a jumble sale at the Conservative Hall,
Hounslow and raised £30 9s. 7d. for branch funds. Inspectors
Ruck and Vincent were present.

Enﬁeld and District Mrs Winifred K. Tye, branch hon sec,
reports that:

Mrs G. Goulder, hon aux sec for Palmers Green, together
with Mr and Mrs Macdowell, raised £12 for branch funds
by a production of Sinbad the Sailor.

A garden party held at the residence of Mr H. H. Rieck
(brazing/chairman and Council Member) and Mrs Rieck,
raise 5.

Mrs Tye organized a jumble sale and raised over £60.
Exeter, East and West Devon Mrs Eden Phillpotts, branch
chairman, reports that the branch autumn fair in aid of the
Clinic raised £345 5s. 2d.
Forest Hill and Sydenham The RSPCA bronze medal and
certiﬁcate was presented to Mr R. Spicer by the Mayor at
Camberwell Town Hall.
Furness and Barrow Mr Chadwick, chairman of the
Barrow-in-Furness auxiliary, gave a short talk after a ﬁlm
ghow given by Inspector Morris to Ireleth Women’s Friendly

oc1ety.

Hampshire—Romsey Miss Collins, branch hon sec, and
committee members helped by Senior Inspector Marsh,
organized a rummage sale in Romsey, assisted by Mrs
Kelsey and other keen Romsey workers, resulting in nearly
£40 being raised for branch funds.
Hampshire—South, and Portsmouth Mrs K. Turner, Park
Gate auxiliary hon sec, reports that Eng Rear-Admiral A.
Kingsley Dibley, branch chairman, opened a concert
organized by the auxiliary. (Sum raised, £3 6).
Hampshire—Southampton and District Mr J. S. Hempstead,
hon sec Animal Defender Groups, reports that prizes were
presented to Animal Defenders for their good work at the
Bitterne and District Group presentation evening.

Among those present were: Mr E. F. Symonds, branch

chairman, Mr H. L. Haslam, group president, Mrs Moody, '

branch hon sec.

Kent—Ashford and District Mrs Fielding-Mould, Smarden
auxiliary hon sec, and helpers organized a jumble sale at
Smarden School and raised {£8 8s. 4d. for branch funds.

Miss Field of Kingsnorth organized a whist drive and
raised £2 17s.
Kent—Canterbury and District Mrs Dance, branch hon:
sechreports that a rummage sale raised £25 11s. for branch!
un s.
Kent—Folkestone, and District Mrs Grace, branch honE
sec, reports that the ‘autumn hot-pot’ raised £10 for
branch funds.
Kent—Isle of Thanet Mrs Turner, Margate auxiliary hon!
sec, organized a jumble sale and raised £40 for branch funds.

*
Miss E. Denning, Birchington auxiliary hon sec, reports
that a brmg and buy sale raised £50 for branch funds.
Kent—Mid, Maidstone and District A lecture and ﬁlm:

 

 

 




 

 

12 - THEANIMAL WORLD

Stockport, East Cheshire and West Derbyshire Branch
Councillor R. Whitehead (chairman of New Mills UDC)
presented RSPCA certiﬁcates to Sergeant F. Starkey,
Constable J. Gray and Mr T. Urie for helping RSPCA
Inspector Wheldale to rescue stranded sheep in a- quarry.
The presentations were made during an interval at an
auxiliary dance at the Parish Hall, New Mills. Mrs Attwood,
president of New Mills auxiliary, introduced Councillor
Whitehead. Among those present were Mrs S. Nabb, branch
secretary, Mrs Greenwood, New Mills aux hon sec, and Mrs
Hobson, New Mills auxiliary hon treasurer.

Streatham, Brixton and Clapham Miss Barrie organized a
jumble sale at Edwina School, Twickenham, and gave £20
for branch funds.

Suffolk—East Coast Constable Mrs R. Belcher, branch hon
sec, reports that a jumble sale held in Lowestoft raised
£16 25. 5d. for branch funds and Southwold’s third jumble
sale this year raised £10.

Surrey——Epsom and District- Mrs K. Stonehill, Great and
Little Bookham auxiliary hon sec, and helpers organized
a very successful dance in aid of branch funds.
Surrey—Sutton and District A jumble sale organized by
Miss Sanders at Cheam raised the splendid sum of £75 for
the branch Clinic. (Report from Mrs Allibert, Council
Member.)

Wakeﬁeld and District Mr Green of Wakeﬁeld organized
a concert and raised £15 for the branch Clinic. (Report from
Mrs Sunderland, branch hon sec.)

Warrington and District Mrs Pullen reports that the dog
show was a huge success.

Westmorland Members of Kendal auxiliary wish to thank
all who helped to make the coffee morning a success. The
sum of £21 was raised for branch funds. (Report from Mrs
Coward, Kendal auxiliary hon sec.)

Mrs Mair, Ambleside auxiliary hon sec, reports that a
ﬁlm show raised £6 for branch funds. Mrs E. Crewdson,
branch chairman, addressed the audience.

Wiltshire—North Mrs D. Wheeler, branch hon sec, reports
that Miss Carrington of Biddestow organized a rummage
sale and raised £13 75. 6d. for branch funds.

Mrs Kent, Blundsdon auxiliary hon sec, organized a
rummage sale and raised £9 35. 6d.

January 1956

Worcestershire—West, and Malvern Mrs A. Harrison,
branch hon sec, reports that an animal service was held at
Torthampton Church by the Rev M. C. Seacombe. A col-
lection of £2 was given for branch funds.
Yorkshire—Bradford and District Miss. G. Hall, branch
secretary, reports that a bring and buy sale held in the
branch Clinic raised £21 for branch funds.
Yorkshire—Bridlington, Malton and District Mrs L. Gray,
branch hon sec, reports that the branch annual Christmas
fair raised £93 for branch funds.

Yorkshire—Harrogate and District A bring and buy sale
was organized by the Ripon Auxiliary under their chairman,
Mrs Bradfer-Lawrence, at the Lawrence Cafe, Ripon. The
sale, opened by the Mayoress, raised £54 35. 4d. for branch

, funds.

Yorkshire—York and District Mrs F. E. Featherston re-
ports that a coffee party and bring and buy sale was organ-
ized at the De Grey Rooms, York. The sum of £60 was
raised for branch funds. The Lady Mayoress was present.

 

The bitch held by Mrs Wright was wild for ﬁve months
and was ﬁnally caught hiding under a wooden hut with the
puppies shown. All the puppies were placed in good homes
and the bitch was kept by Mrs Wright. Holding two of the
puppies is Mrs Banks, who like Mrs Wright is a keen worker

for Dorchester Division.

 

COLLECTIONS

FLAG DAYS

(We give, wherever possible, the place at which the Flag Day
was held and the names of the organizer or organizers)

._. a... -47.“ ,N . .. . . w <

 

An outs
who collected £l5 for the Bedford Borough Flag Day.
Bromyard, Miss L. C. Kempson, aux co hon sec, £26;
Alcester, Mrs Thornton, aux hon sec, £11 45.; Henley—in‘
Arden, Mrs L. E. Palmer, aux hon sec, £20 65. 6d.; Peter,
borough, Miss A. N. Hartley, branch hon sec, £324 185. 7a.;

Devizes, Miss R. A. Goddard, branch hon sec, £41 145. lld.;
Carmarthenshire (County Collection), Mr A. C; Mitchell,
branch hon sec, and aux hon secs, £182 45. 11d.; Car—
marthen Borough, Mr A. C. Mitchell, branch hon sec,
£66 15. 9d.; Barnstaple, Mrs P. Hamilton, aux hon sec,
£125 155. 11d.; Stratford—on’Avon, Miss M. Watkins, aux
hon sec, £95 45. 7d.; Dunster, Miss Ward, aux hon sec,
£30 195. 1d.; Welwyn Garden City, Mr P. H. Marriott,
Welfare Centre hon sec, £125 135. lld.; Barrow—in—
Furness, Mr R. Hampson, aux hon sec, £146; Ashton!
under—Lyne, Mrs 9V. S. Schoﬁeld, aux hon sec. £122 105. 7d.;
Glyn Ceiriog, Miss G. Pickering, aux hon sec, £4 05. 6d.;
Shipley and Baildon, £95; Ringwood, Mrs Pelling, co aux
hon sec, £43 175. 1d.; Burnham—onvSea, Mr R. S. Dillon, aux
hon sec, £44 115. 10d.; Highbridge, Mrs Mason, aux hon
sec, £9 65. lld.; Wrexham, Mrs B. R. Bell, branch hon sec,
£219 85. 1d.; Yarm—on—Tees, Mrs Kitson, £5 05. 9d.; Northv
leach, Glos, Mrs N. E. Reeves, aux hon sec. £5 55. 2d.;
Ashton—under-Hill, Glos, Miss K. F. Fisher and Mrs R.
Sidwell, aux co hon secs, £6 95.; Middleton, Lancs, Mrs A.
Hartley, aux hon sec, £46; Northumberland West Branch
(rural areas collections), Mrs J. C. Hanna and Mrs J. W.
Mordey, joint branch hon secs, £150; Mansﬁeld, Miss
M. P. Cooper, aux hon sec, £203 45. 6d.; New Mills, Mrs
Greenwood, aux hon sec, £44 125. 3d.; Cleeve Hill, Glos,
Mrs G. P. Beckett, aux hon sec, £3 105.

 

 

 




 

Single Woman
(Home lost in I940 Bombing)
Requires Unfurnished Room, Kitchen,
Bathroom
London Wl Preferred

Miss D. Watson
28 Upper Montagu Street
London,VVl

 

 

 

 

FLAG DAY
G OODS

Celluloid Buttons

LIST ON APPLICATION

THE UNIVERSAL BUTTON CO. LTD.
1-9 Birkheck Street, Bethnal Green, LONDON, E.2

Telephone: BIShopsgate 5750 Telegrams: ‘Unibutco Edo’

 

 

 

a
TEMPLE COX CAPTIVE

BOLT SLAUGHTERING
GUNS_

Specially recommended and used by the RSPCA

THREE MODELS—ALL SILENT IN
ACTION

‘UNIVERSAL’ for all animals
‘SMALLS’ for all small animals
‘MARK 6' for all animals. Designed for heavy

use in large Abattoirs and Freezing Works

 

TEMPLE COX DEVELOPMENT CO. LTD
HIGH STREET, BROMLEY, KENT

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

R. SOP. COA.

 

 

 

FORM OF BEQUEST FOR NATIONAL WORK

To those benevolent individuals who may wish to become benefactors by Will to this

Society, the following form is respectfully suggested:—

‘I bequeath to the ROYAL SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS, founded

1824, for the general purposes of that Society, the sum of £ .......................................... , free

of death duty and the receipt of the Treasurer for the time being of the said Society shall

be sufﬁcient discharge for such legacy.’ (If it should be desired that the legacy should be exv

pended on some particular phase of the Society’s work, a direction to this effect may be added to the

form of bequest.)

 

By the Act of William IV and I Victoria, cap. 26, all Wills or Codicils must be in Writing signed by the

Testator, and attested by two witnesses in the presence of the Testator and of each other.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Printed by Shenval Press, Simson Shand Ltd, London, Hertford and Harlow, and
published by Arthur W. Moss for the RSPCA at 105 Jermyn Street, London, SW1

 




