 

Daynemouth War
(Continued from Page 13)

Bruce visited his pet several times. Although
vitisors were not permitted in the ward, he
consoled his cat through the plate glass door
and talked to him over the 2-way radio.

At last a ﬁnal check-up showed the infectious enteritis was completely

cured. Tiger. a healthy cat once more' left the hospital for home in the arms
of an overjoyed Bruce.

 

 

 

 




President Hugh E. Paine (left) awards medal
to Dr. M. J. J. Houthuis. Netherlands official.

  
   
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
    
   
  
   
  
  
  
  
     

Holland Official Cited

Dr. M. J. J. Houthuis, Director of the
Public Slaughterhouse, Rotterdam, Holland,
was honored for his perfection of instru-
ments used in the humane slaughtering of
food animals.

Stunning by electro-shock has been a law
in The Netherlands since the 1920’s and Dr.
Houthuis for the past 23 years has pioneered
in trying to get other countries to substitute
this painless method for the cruder ones now
used in slaughter houses in most of the
world, including the United States.

The medal was presented to the interna-
tionally known humanitarian during his visit
to New York. Dr. Houthuis was on the last
leg of a tour throughout Canada and the
United States where he studied American
slaughtering procedures and described hu-
mane slaughter techniques used in Holland

before meat-packers and government officials.

Setter Saved Boy’s Life

Patsy, a female Gordon setter, owned by
Fred Treibt, Brooklyn, saved little Rickey
Schaffer, 7, also of Brooklyn, from drowning

when the boy fell off a dock in Point Look-
out, Queens.

Patsy spotted Rickey ﬂoating face down
in the water off the foot of lnwood Avenue
and Bayside Drive and began to bark. Mr.
Treibt rushed over to see what was wrong.
He dove and pulled the unconscious boy out.
He immediately started to give artiﬁcial
respiration while a neighbor called Point
Lookout ﬁremen who arrived minutes later
with an oxygen tank.

After a night in the hospital Rickey was
declared fully recovered from his ordeal,
thanks to Patsy’s determined bark.

Flood Victims Saved Two Puppies

George and Joseph Strogatz, owners of
Howard’s Department Store, Torrington,
Connecticut, were cited for rescuing a pair
of Irish Setters during last summer’s devas-
tating hurricane Diane.

The pups were to be awarded to winners
of a contest to mark the opening the next
day of a newly decorated Howard’s.

The brothers had brought the dogs along
for company while they arranged for the

(Continued on Page 18)

17

Rickey Schatfer, 7l hugs Patsy, female setter which
saved him from drowning when the boy tell OFF a dock.

 




   

   

California Department of Fish and Game photo

 
  
  
  
  
  
   
   
   
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
   
   
  
  
  
  
    
   

5,000 trout drop from plane into
Mary Lake in the California Sierras.

Hitting the Silk!
(Continued from, Page 3)

sighting through a hole in the floor, pulls
the release lever just as he spots the shore-
line. The rush of air sucks the water and
ﬁsh from the hopper in a fraction of a
second.”

And it’s “bombs away” for some 5,000
trout only a few minutes after leaving the
hatchery.

Flying Beavers

Conservation Departments have been para-
chuting beavers with even greater success
for the past 12 years —— ﬁrst in Idaho, then
in California and Colorado.

It is beaver nature to seek water and build
a dam [to create a pond in which to build
a home. The pond is used for protection
against bank-prowling enemies, transporta-
tion of food without effort and keeping cool.

Using trees, stones, reeds and mud, two
beavers of average eagerness can ﬁnish a
dam 18 feet long and 6 feet wide in about
3 weeks, with water-distributing results that
can be beneﬁcial or disastrous for miles
around. Conservation men, therefore, keep
trapping beavers where they aren’t wanted

20

and moving them to places where their dams
will do some good.

The ﬁrst-suggested beaver-dropping con-
traption was a willow cage from which the
beaver could chew himself to freedom after
landing. But somebody warned that a good
beaver would probably gnaw his way out
before that, and so this project never got
off the ground.

The latest advance is the California tech-
nique, which eliminates any possibility of
premature gnawing out. California beavers
float down to earth with their heads in the
air. Nothing is within chewing distance and
the landing is cushioned too.

A 100-pound burlap sack is ﬁlled halfway
with straw. The beaver rests on top of that.
The shroud lines of the chute are strung
through eyelets in the sack. As the chute de-
scends, the beaver’s weight holds the sack
around his neck. When the chute collapses.
he walks out. The descent takes 25 seconds.
Two males and two females are usually
landed in the same spot.

How effective such a landing party can be
—— even though beavers produce only four
or ﬁve young 3 year — is indicated by a
carefully observed transplantation project in
Idaho. One couple built seventeen dams in
one season. Three years later, together with
their offspring, they had built a hundred.
creating many meadows for cattle grazing.

German Shepherd Parafroopers

Some 10,000 miles away on the other side
of the world a dog named Lux is doing for
canine paratroopers what Geronimo, an early
beaver “test pilot,” did for ﬂying beavers.
LuX made the pioneer jump in just about
the latest project involving parachuting ani-
mals when the Austrian Mountain Rescue
Service last year began using German shep-
herds as paratroopers to ﬁnd persons who
have been lost in snow slides.

Dogs have been used for decades in the
Alpine regions to sniff out survivors, but it
often proved difﬁcult to reach the accident
scene by land. Now the airborne dogs can

  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

 




 




.v.vnmv.v.-mmuu_——..__m.

women a work

      

Mrs. Chrysler Heads J _ , - l

A - r K' d Ba" M
mma mg om Mrs. Walter P. Chryslerl Jr.l (right) chairman l

With MrS- Walter P- Chrysler, he as of the 1956 Animal Kingdom Ball. with com- 1
chairman, the sixth Animal Kingdom Ball mittee member Mrs. Edward F. Cavanagh,
will be held on January 26 in the Grand Jr.. wife of New York's Fire Commissioner.

 

Ballroom of the Hotel Pierre. Proceeds will
aid the maintenance of the Society’s Adop-
tion Service Clinic, a favorite project of the
Women’s Volunteer Division.

The clinic allows animals adopted from

costs the ASPCA $5.42. To make up the
difference the goal for the ball has been
set at $7500.

The theme “Carnival of the Animals” will
be accentuated in table prizes and in a speci-
ally-created carnival midway. Richard Nell
will be in charge of decor and Bob Boucher’s
orchestra will provide the music.

Mrs. Chrysler’s committee includes Mrs.

George Hayman, chairman of the Women’s
Division, Mrs. Robert A. Boucher, Mrs.
James Burton, Mrs. James Cassidy, Mrs.
Edward F. Cavanagh, Jr., Mrs. E. Keppler
Cowen, Mrs. Arthur Crowder, Mrs. Oscar l
B. de la Rosa, Mrs. William J. Greene, Mrs.
Frederick R. Hanson, Mrs. Richard A. J ohn-
son, Mrs. I. Morton Levine, Mrs. D. Culmore l
Lincoln, Mrs. James McCutcheon, Mrs. N. l
H. Morris McOstrich, Mrs. Alfred Nash, l
Mrs. Allen L. Patterson, Mrs. William H.
Reid, Mrs. Robert A. Schmid, Mrs. Leon
G. Sherburne, Mrs. Mayson Hatch Tucker
and Mrs. William Zeckendorf.

the Society to return for medical treatment
at a cost of $1 per visit for a period of 30
days after the adoption. Each visit actually

 

Mrs. Richard A. Johnson (right) Chairman Miss Linda Lowry, daughter Of Mr. and
of Special Adoptions with a new Committee Mrs. Dav1d A‘ Lowry, is chairman 0f the
member Mrs. William Zeckendort. Debutante Committee.

6

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

_
_
4
4
k

g

 




ANIMAL PROTECTION

Published three times yearly by

The American Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

Founded and Incorporated 1866

Vol. 9, NO. 3
Editorial Ofﬁce: 30 East 60th Street

Winter 1955

Editor, JANICE PAI’RI N

 

OFFICERS

 

HUGH E. PAINE, President

WILLIAM F. MORGAN, Vice-President
.IAMES H. RIPLEY, Vice-President

THOMAS D. HUGHES, Vice-President
WILLIAM A. MEYERHOFF, Treasurer
WILLIAM L. BURTON, Secretary

LOUIS REYNAL, Assistant Secretary
WARREN W. MCSPADDEN, Assistant Treasurer

BOARD OF MANAGERS

JOHN D. BEALs, JR.
WILLIAM E. BUCKLEY
JOHN W. CROSS, JR.
JAMES H. JENKINS
ROBERT L. JONES
RICHARD C. KETTLES, JR.
JOSE A. MACHADO, JR.
ALASTAIR B. MARTIN
JOSEPH B. MURRAY

W. ROSS PROCTOR
WILLIAM A. ROCKEFELLER
WILLIAM ROCKEFELLER
GEORGE B. WAGSTAFF

Managers Emeritus
F. AMBROSE CLARK
HENRY J. FISHER
SAMUEL R. MILBANK

 

 

COVER PICTURE

Sicilian donkeys Maude and Jenny
are two of the favorite boarders at
Mrs. N. Clarkson Earl’s Iradell Farm
in Ridgeﬁeld, Conn. Mousy gray in
color, donkeys from Sicily are dis-
tinguished by the black cross on their
backs, known as the Sicilian cross.
Story on page 4.

 

 

 

Pictures, unless otherwise credited, are by AI Levine

ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICERS TRafalgar 6-7700
441 East 92nd St., New York 28, N. Y. (York Ave.)
WARREN W. MCSPADDEN, General Manager
ARTHUR L. AMUNDSEN, Assistant General Manager
GEORGE H. TUSCHER, Director of Humane Work
GERTRUDE E. JOHNSON, Secretary to Committees
THACHER, PROFFITT, PRIZER, CRAWLEY 81 WOOD,
Attorney and Counsel

HOSPITAL AND CLINIC FOR ANIMALS .
441 East 92nd St., New York 28, N. Y.

RAYMOND J. GARBUTT, D.V.M., Chief Veterinarian
THOMAS A. FEGAN, Business Manager

TRafalgar 6-7700

EDUCATION DEPARTMENT TRafalgar 6-7700, Ext. 31
441 East 92nd St., New York 28, N. Y. (3rd Floor)

PUBLIC RELATIONS DEPARTMENT
30 East 60th St., New York 22, N. Y.
JUNE ELIOT, Director

PLaza 5-1650

MANHATTAN SHELTER .
441 East 92nd St., New York 28, N. Y.
FRANCIS MELVIN, District Manager

TRafalgar 6-7700

BROOKLYN OFFICE AND SHELTER

233 Butler St., Brooklyn 17, N. Y.
(between Nevins and Bond Streets)

CHARLES R. WADSLEY, District Manager

TRiangle 5-9580

BRONX OFFICE AND SHELTER . LUdIOW 3-2880
3960 Park Ave. (173rd St.), Bronx, N. Y. 57, N. Y.
N. MICHAEL BROMLEY, District Manager

QUEENS OFFICE AND SHELTER
94-27 158th St., Jamaica 33, L. 1.
ROBERT B. FERRIS, District Manager

REpublic 9-4041

RICHMOND OFFICE AND SHELTER
4 Willow Ave., Rosebank, S. I. 5, N. Y.
WALTER L. HOLLINDE, District Manager

GIbraltar 7-0122

 




 

 

 

 

    
 
 
 
     
     
    
  
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   

rier dogs from Scotland, and from far-off
Brooklyn —— a goat from Coney Island.
The two prize specimens among her one
hundred animals are :a horse 28 inches tall
and a year-old dwarf Black Angus cow just

one inch taller. Bobolink, the nine-year-old ,
lradell s spotlessly clean kennels. where
_ . . _ Skye terriers are raised for sale. Mrs.
vaU151t10n when bought last spring. The Earl has had 36 champions in 17 years.

English breeder of these horses restricts their

miniature stallion, was considered a special

sale to prevent the animals from being used
in circuses.

 

After these pictures were taken, October’s BrutusI a Toggenburg stud goat, corrobor-
raging flood surged through Connecticut. ates the fact that only male goats Q'Ve of?
Mrs. Earl recalls the terror at lradell: “When odor, and then only durlng the breeding

we found the little cow Princess by flashlight season from September to February.

just her nose was sticking up above water.
The rest of her was totally submerged. We
were cut off from Bobolink through the
whole horrible thing. We were sure we would
find him drowned, but at 5 a.m. we reached
his stable and found a miracle. It was With-
out a drop of water. We herded all the cats,
goats and cows into one barn and bailed out
the water with pails throughout the night,
trying to keep one pace ahead of the flood.
At times the water rose to four feet.”
Luckily all were saved.

Six-weeks-old pups are granddaughters of
Georgian Wolfie, the kennel's prize poodle.




 

 

 

 

 

    

ORE and more animals are dropping
from the sky nowadays, ﬂoating to
earth on the end of a parachute. The ani-
mals, ranging from cats and dogs to pigeons,
beavers and even trout, are all hitting the
silk for the good of mankind.

The beavers are used for their dam-build-
ing talents. German shepherd dogs are para-
chuted into the Austrian Alps to ﬁnd ava-
lanche survivors. And the R.A.F. has simi-
larly dispatched cats to rat-plagued jungle
outposts in Malaya.

The ﬂying ﬁsh are being dropped from
planes to restock remote mountain streams
for the beneﬁt of anglers. The United States
Fish and Wildlife Service, cooperating with
state conservation agencies, has experimented
since 1946, coming up with a time-, energy-
and money-saving method of aerial planting
to replace the old slow method of hauling
cans of young fry up rugged mountain roads
on the backs of pack animals.

In California the ﬁsh are planted from a
C45 twin engined plane. A specially de-
signed bin with a trap door has been con-
structed in the ﬂoor, which, with the pull
of a lever, can release as many as 20,000
trout in a fraction of a second together with
the water used to transport them. The ﬁnger-

German Shepherd parachutes into Austrian
Alps to find avalanche survivors.

Austrian Information Service photo

    
 

 

lings ﬂoat down safely, using the shower
of spray as a sort of parachute, and immedi-
ately swim away as they hit the water.

Nearly 700 high-elevation and back coun-
try lakes of the Sierras are planted each
year in days instead of months —— at a cost
of $1.25 a thousand ﬁsh as against $15 to
$20 using the less efﬁcient pack train.

On a typical planting day during July and
August hatchery trucks speed the trout to
the waiting plane on a mile-high landing
ﬁeld. The delicate species are transferred to
the plane’s 15-gallon aluminum cans, each
bearing the name of the lake to which the
ﬁsh are consigned. During the ﬂight the
ﬁngerlings are kept alive through a complex
aerating mechanism and the addition of ice
to keep the temperature constant.

After the take-off the twin engined Beech-
craft climbs steadily over towering rock
walls and peaks to about 12,000 feet.

Fish and Game Warden Stephen Lukacik,
for 15 years a Navy pilot, describes the
ﬁnal step: “We make a straight-in run at
approximately 140 miles per hour with a
shallow glide, dropping down to 300 feet
above the water. As the craft levels off, Lee
Talbott (assistant supervisor for hatcheries)
( Continued on Page 20)

3

 




 

THE D OR LISTEN-

 

 

 

Cold Weather Hints for
Dog Owners

by Philip J. McEnerney, D.V.M.
ASPCA Hospital and Clinic

The onset of cold weather makes it desir-
able for dog owners to review in their minds
some of the precautions they should be tak-
ing to safeguard their pets’ health. It is not
only the simple chills and colds caused by
exposure which are a problem. There is also
the added risk that lowered resistance due
to colds can contribute to invasion by a num-
ber of those viruses which produce such
severe symptoms in dogs, and are so difﬁcult
to treat once they have gained a foothold.
The following hints on management and care
should help owners to avoid some of the
risks run in this season.

Bathing

Dogs should not be bathed frequently dur-
ing the cold weather because of the colds
they often get following their baths. Instead
they should be brushed daily as a means
of removing dirt, loose hair and offensive
skin oils. If parts of the body (ears, paws,
etc.) become muddied or dirtied, they may
be sponged clean without any risk.

Clothing

Healthy dogs need not be given clothing
to protect them against the weather. Their
coats of fur, which act as insulating ma-
terial, permit them to move from one envir-
onment to another Without risk, providing
the change is not too drastic a one. Animals
which are sickly or pet animals believed to
be delicate may on occasion be protected by
clothing against the winter. It would be wise
to consult with a veterinarian before taking
such a step. He would consider the state of

health of the animal, its breed, and the type
of care it has received in previous years be-
fore making a recommendation.
Feeding

Dogs should be fed a little more generous-
ly in winter than in summer. Fatty foods
should be added to the diet in greater quan-
tity in order to supply extra energy needed
to meet the demands of the season. Vitamin
supplements may also be added to the diet
in order to build up resistance. A veterinarian
can advise the owner on the types of fatty
foods and vitamins which it would be most
desirable to feed.

Exposure to Sources of Heat

Owners should not allow their dogs to
spend much time in close proximity to
sources of heat, such as radiators or ﬁre-
places. Too much exposure to such heat will
lower their resistance to cold when they have
to meet it. In addition, it will tend to dry
out their coats and make them less slightly.
Cold and Dampness

Dogs should not either be kept in environ-
ments which are cold and damp. Cellars are
often such sites and dogs should not be
housed in them unless it is clear that the
air in them is dry.
Exercise

Although dogs should be protected in all
these ways against the severe weather, they
should nonetheless be given plenty of exer-
cise in the open air. This will harden them
as no amount of coddling nor house life
will do. They should be allowed several
walks in the open air daily, long enough so
that they come back from them comfortably
tired, but not exhausted.

The Hazard of Snow-Melting Salts

Dogs’ feet should be washed after they
come in from walks on snow-covered city
streets. In many cities salts are sprinkled on
streets to melt the accumulated ice and snow.
These salts can irritate the tender skin of
dogs’ feet. They can also cause diarrhea and
vomiting if they are swallowed, as will hap-
pen easily enough if the dogs take to licking
their feet.

15

 

 




 

 

ASPCA Junior Member Sara Michele Hoben
presents medal to George and Joseph
Strogatz for saving puppies in flood.

Above and Beyond the Call . . .

(Continued from Page 17)

opening. Shortly after 2 a.m. the last item
had been placed on the shelves and change
had been put in the cash register.

Suddently a swift torrent of water swept
through the rear walls. In minutes shelves
were ripped from the walls, lighting ﬁxtures
dangled loosely and water covered everything.

Without thought for themselves, their cash
or stock, the men searched for the pups.
When they ﬁnally emerged from the ruins,
each brother had an unharmed terrier in
his arms.

Veterinary Scholarship Offered

It is with great pride that we are able to
announce 'a $300 scholarship to veterinary
students at Cornell University. It will be
called The ASPCA Veterinarian Scholarship.

For the years 1956, 1957 and 1958 it is
offered out of funds raised by Gordon
Wright, owner of Secor Farms, from a series
of beneﬁt horse shows at his stables in
White Plains, N. Y.

The scholarship recipient will be chosen
from members of the Junior Class by the

18

Veterinary Faculty of the New York State
Veterinary College, a unit of the State Uni-
versity of New York, Cornell University, on
the basis of need, scholarship, demonstrated
interest and general competence. The scholar-
ship, to be applied against the winner’s tui-
tion for the senior year, is open to residents
of New York State who expect to specialize
in horse work and practice within the State.
After graduation the ASPCA will consider
the winner for a position on the staff of our
Hospital, if such a position is available.

Adopted Dog of the
Year Crowned

Recently we set out to ﬁnd the dog
adopted from one of our shelters who has
lived the longest with the same family.
Mickey, owned by Mrs. Erna Stix of Man-
hattan for eight years, won the title “Adopted
Dog of the Year,” along with a paper crown,
a year’s supply of dog food and free veter-
inary care in our clinic.

Another dog named Brenda just missed
out on the top award, but was given a special
honor for saving the life of a friend—a
careless parakeet, whose neck was caught in
a piece of string.

 

New York Daily News photo

Mickey. 9-year-old Schnauzer. looks at Girl
Scout Harriet Shapiro after she crowned him

Adopted Dog of the Year.




 

 

 

descend directly onto the area and go right
to work.

Lux and his handler ride in an open
plane, each rigged in his own chute. The
man jumps ﬁrst, giving the dog a command
to follow. The dog jumps without hesitation
even before the man’s chute opens.

Due to body structure and fur the dog
falls backwards at ﬁrst until the parachute
opens. Then the dog turns and glides com-
fortably and fully relaxed toward the
ground. Trainers have found that canines
learn to parachute a great deal faster than
men. By instinct the dog is absolutely re-
laxed and ready for a perfect landing.

The ﬁrst dogs jumped from rented Swiss
planes since Austria was not permitted to
own her own planes. But the recent armistice
has changed all that and the Austrians ex-
pect to buy 10 planes of their own for the
Rescue Service. A concentrated training pro-

gram should supply enough well-trained dogs
and human rescuers by the next spring
thaw when snow avalanches will isolate and
overcome many Alpine villages.

Feline Landing Parties

And now, about those flying cats in Ma-
laya. A number of jungle forts, accessible
only by air, were infested with rats — to the
discomfort of the R.A.F. Commanders in
charge. So last January the Far East Trans-
port Wing parachuted a few cats in padded
boxes containing ﬁsh. They were on “active
duty,” according to reports, within hours of
arrival.

So successful was this trip that isolated
forts were then similarly supplied with live
chickens, packed and parachuted in boxes.
As evidence that there were no uncomfor-
table reactions, the chickens were said to
have been laying egg-s within 24 hours.

 

The Way Things Are

by IRENE CORBALLY KUHN

Condensed from her nationally syndicated newspaper column, distributed by Spadea Syndicate, Inc.

Anyone for bullﬁghts? In the United
States, I mean.

I doubt it, even though there have been
sample demonstrations here from time to
time. Earlier this year San Francisco had a
tourada —— the ﬁrst Portuguese style bull-
ﬁght ever to be shown here, but the exhibi-
tion was not exactly a rousing success.

For there is no stomach in this country
for the bloody spectacle of “death in the
afternoon,” as Ernest Hemingway called the
Spanish drama which unfolds in the Plaza
de Toros every Sunday at 4 pm. in Spain
and Mexico.

Most Americans who have seen the corri-
das with all their color and violent emotion,
all their pageantry and blood, when a brave
man faces a brave bull in a ﬁght to the
death, generally react violently against them.
It is just too foreign to the American na-

ture, too sadistic and sordid to be considered
ﬁt for either entertainment or sport here.

The ASPCA is unalterably opposed to the
introduction of this or any other kind of
bullﬁghting in the United States. They main-
tain it will tend to degrade public morals
and dull sensitivity to pain. They insist it
is cruelty to arouse the ﬁghting instinct of a
bull by teasing and tormenting it during a
series of charges. They point out, too, that
a horse wouldn’t stand a chance [if the sheath
came off a bull’s horn.

We Americans are people who spend time,
effort and money to rescue stray cats and
dogs. Most of us will not even brook the
painless destruction of nuisances [as ﬂocks
of starlings and pigeons. We are not likely,
therefore, to take readily to bullﬁghting.
“Bull throwing” is a harmless American
pastime; bull wrestling isn’t.

21

 




M1-wnw-nn- urn-w - <

 

 

 

 

 

Third Poster Contest Under Way

Juniors! Get busy with your brushes,
paints and crayons for the third annual
Junior Membership poster contest. The
theme this year is “Why My Dog Needs a
License.”

Grand prize will be a sterling silver bowl,
called the Schleifman Memorial Trophy, do-
nated by Arthur Schleifman in memory of
his father. Twelve other prizes of gift cer-
tiﬁcates will also be given to the runners-up
in four different age groups. So everyone
has an equal chance — whether you’re six
or sixteen.

Everyone knows that a dog license is a
dog’s best protection if he’s lost. Chances
are you’ll get him back much sooner if he
has a license tag on his collar. Even Juniors
who don’t own a dog will have many ideas
on why a dog needs a license. Just paint
or color your ideas on a poster. That’s all
there is to it.

Junior Group Members who are Scouts or
Camp Fire Girls are eligible, too, of course!
Why not make this a group project? Your
troop could be the grand prize winner.

For ofﬁcial rules call our Education De-
partment, TRafalgar 6-7700. Posters must be
in by February 15, 1956. So begin now!

It’s not too late for all you artists who are
not Junior Members to enter the contest.
Just ﬁll out the Junior Membership applica-
tion blank below and mail it with your $51.

 

This will entitle you to:

1. Participation in poster contest

2. A Junior Membership card

3. A button

4. Junior Jamboree pet show

5. Tour through the ASPCA Hospital, in-
cluding puppy and kitten adoption
wards

6. Color movies on animals

7. Subscription to ANIMAL PROTECTION

8. Free tickets to events around New
York

P.S.—Parents, grandparents, aunts and

uncles! An ASPCA Junior Membership
makes a ﬁne Christmas gift for all the
youngsters on your list.

ASPCA Education Dept. 1955
4141 East 92nd Street
New York 28, N. Y.

I

l Enclosed is $1 for my dues. Please en-
I roll me as an ASPCA Junior Member and
send me a membership button, member-
I ship card and ofﬁcial poster contest rules.

Name ____________________________________________________________ ._
Address ________________________________________________________
City ____________________________ Zone--- State __________ .

Age ________________ (Juniors must be under 18)

7

 

 

 




 

A NEW TREATMENT ROOM

STERILIZER AND STAND $171.75

For sterilizing hypodermic needlesl for-
ceps. surgical scissorsl syringes.

 

   

OPERATING TABLE $300

Stainless steel top with porcelain base makes for
efficient and sanitary maintenance. Height and
angle are adiustable.

DRUG CABINET $1 80

For holding drugs and biologicals within
easy reach. Glass doors enable the doc-
tor to ﬁnd quickly anti-biotics. serums
and other of the more than 1.000 dit-
ferent drug items used in the Hospital.

 

 




   
 
 
 
 
      
     
  
   
 
 
    
  

IRADELL
FARM

Home 01?
Rare Animal

. Mrs. N. Clarkson Earl with Bobolink, the 9-year-old
l English horse that's only 28 inches high.

RS. N. CLARKSOB EARL is a woman

with her own miniature United Na-

tions — with animals as delegates. On her

159-aere Iradell Farm in Ridgeﬁeld, Conn.,

Mrs. Earl, the former Consuelo Vanderbilt,

has imported odd animals from all over the
world.

She has two deer from Japan, a horse

from England, 10 Toggenburg goats from

Switzerland, two donkeys from Sicily, a

ﬂock of pheasants from China, 50 Skye ter-

Skye terrier Ch. Merry Mount You'll Do of .‘

lradell submits to a hair combing session.

 
  
 
   

PrincessI the 29-inch-high Black Angus cow from
MontanaI gets a careful check from Dennis Lynch,
farm superintendent for Mrs. Earl for 25 years.

 




 

 

 

 

IEditorial

Whether it’s a word of cheer, a greeting
card, or a gift, large or small, the accepted
custom at Christmas is to remember those
we care about. Most of us participate in this
welcome exchange with no thought of per-
sonal satisfaction. Yet, the very act of giving
brings gladness to the heart and a sense of
well-being to the mind of the donor.

Such pleasing sensations are not conﬁned
to Christmas giving alone. Helping, where
help is needed, is a year round practice with
a lot of folks, and this includes every mem-
ber and contributor of the ASPCA. Your
regular support not only makes it possible
to carry out our program and activities, but
gives us conﬁdence to plan for the future.

Then there are the special gifts, such as
the surprise contribution from a true friend
of animals who wishes to remain anonymous.
Last summer, as a result of this gift, we
opened the Daynemouth Ward for the isola-
tion of animals suffering from communicable
diseases. This unique ward occupies a corri-
dor and two rooms in one wing of the Hos-
pital, completely isolated from the other
wards. It is, in itself, really a small hospital.

Several important pieces of hospital equip-
ment were donated during the year. The
most recent items include
a marvelous new Coreco
Clinical Camera and a
large steam sterilizer for
food and water utensils
given by Stretch Plohn
“to his Pals”; a stainless
steel clinical examining
table given by Helen, Melvin and Jordan
Driks “in memory of Skippy”; a» stainless

    

SHPPY

steel surgical supply cabinet given by Mrs.
Marion T. Shotter “in memory of My Boys
and Girls of Tally-Ho”; and a life-saving
resuscitator given by Mrs. Katrina Kindel
“in memory of my mother, Mrs. Edward Cup
van Asmus.” 1955 brought cage endowments
from Elsie Z. Graham, Alice W. Rabing and
Ethel J. Dorgan.

Special thanks go to the Women’s Volun-
teer Division, under the direction of Mrs.
George Hayman. Their many activities dur-
ing the year helped sustain our Adoption
Service and the Adoption Service Clinic,
and have helped us expand our horse care
program.

A look ahead to 1956 involves our biggest
vision for the year — our new Bronx Shelter
to be opened during the early summer. The
building itself is nearing completion. Me-
chanical installations —— heating, ventilation,
lighting, etc. — are proceeding rapidly. This
ultra-modern shelter will replace our present
inadequate one, long since outgrown.

Another innovation for 1956 is The
ASPCA Veterinary Scholarship for $300
which we are offering annually to a veter-
inary student at Cornell University. There is
a serious shortage of veterinarians, particu-
larly those specializing in horse work, and
this scholarship is intended to encourage
students to enter that ﬁeld.

Our Hospital plans for 1956 include a
new treatment room to relieve some of the
heavy pressure on our two surgery rooms.
The cost will be about $5000, and when the
time comes we are conﬁdent the necessary
amount will somehow be made available.

In looking back over 1955 we certainly
have a great deal to be thankful for, thanks
to you and you and you. In looking forward
to 1956 we are just as certain that our needs
will be taken care of — again thanks to the
faithful friends of New York’s pet and ani-
mal population.

General Manager

 




 

 

 
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Mr. and Mrs. John L. McFoun receive award
from ASPCA'S June Eliot for saving four horses.

During recent months ASPCA’s Medal of
Honor for outstanding bravery and service has

_ _ Couple Saved Four Horses
been awarded SIX times.

A joint award went to Mr. and Mr. John
L. McFaun of Northgate Farms, Ipswich
Mass, for saving four horses in a freak acci-
dent at Winsted, Conn. The horses were
prize show horses valued at $15,000.

The McFauns were returning from a horse
show at Lakeville, Conn., when the trans-
mission on the ﬁve-ton horse van Mr. McFaun l
was driving suddenly broke as the truck be- 1
gan to roll downhill into Winsted’s main
street. The foot brake and emergency brake
also refused to hold. The van. carrying the
horses and two handlers, raced down the
incline at 80 miles an hour, the driver help-
less. Mrs. McFaun, following in her con-
vertible, saw the truck out of control and
pulled alongside, giving her husband the op-
portunity to shout out his predicament.

Racing down the hill in the lead at 85 miles
an hour she warned pedestrians and other
motorists as the van careened wildly past
three intersections, narrowly missing a boy
on a bicycle and several other vehicles. l

The van ﬁnally ground safely to a halt ’
against the curb of an upgrade outside of ‘
town. Miraculously no one was injured.

9

  




ASPCA

INDEX

Editorial

Hitting the Silk! .
lradell Farm .
Women at Work
Calling All Juniors .

. . and It's an Honest-to-Goodness
Hospital!" .

Animal Antics

The Daynemouth Ward

The Doctor Listens . .

Above and Beyond the Call .
Veterinary Scholarship Offered
Adopted Dog of the Year Crowned .
Books for Christmas Giving .

The Way Things Are .

Our Hospital Needs

Letters .

The American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

lerman Printing Co., N.Y.C.

 




Books for Christmas Giving

Man Meets Dog by Konrad Z. Lorenz;
Houghton Mifﬂin, 1955, $3.00

A life devoted to the loving study of ani-
mal behavior lies behind this wisest of
books on dogs —— and cats by Konrad Z.
Lorenz. He is director of the Institute for
Comparative Ethology of the Max Planck
Society in Westfalen, Germany. Through
ﬁrsthand stories of the dogs who have lived
with him, he explores every aspect of the
fascinating and complex relationship be-
tween man and the animal most closely
bound to him.

There are chapters which must be of im-
mediate help to almost anyone —— advice on
the choice of one’s pet, and a boost of the
good qualities of the mixed breed, interpre-
tation of canine facial expressions; descrip-
tion of the social traditions between dogs
(most owners are too busy pulling at the
leash to note these subtleties); chapters on
play, deceitfulness, ﬁdelity, conscience.

Man Meets Dog is also funny, tender, and
wonderfully illustrated on the margins of
almost every page by the author and Miss
Annie Eisenmenger.

——ALLYN Wooo

Nat F ein’s Animals;
Gilbert Press, 1955, $3.00
A few issues back we ran some pictures
by the Pulitzer Prize winning photographer
Nat Fein. We felt it was only a matter of
time before some publisher snapped up these
pictures —— together with the rest of Nat
Fein’s animal shots — and put them to-
gether in a book.

Well, here it is. Nat Fein’s Animals is a
picture gallery of his favorite models ——
elephants, Royal Bengal tigers, penguins,
Herbie the walrus, hippos, the ground hog,
an orangutan named Mike and many others.

 

The book is a pictorial zoo in itself, com-
plete with the photographer’s own stories of
how he got the pictures.

ASPCA recently presented Nat Fein with
our Medal of Honor for promoting an un-
derstanding of animals through his extraor-
dinary pictures and for his cooperation with

ASPCA over a long period of years.

Horoscopes for Pussy Cats,

by Bootsie Campbell;

Arrowhead Books, Inc., 1955, $2.00

If humans can have horoscopes, why not
pussy cats? From Aries to Pisces, through
the 12 signs of the zodiac, the author
Bootsie, pet cat of Mrs. Doreen Orme Camp-
bell, and the artist, Warren Wille, have
surveyed the heavenly signs and portrayed
the character and fate of the pussy cat.

For instance, Virgo, pictured here, is told:
“You are quick to ﬁnd fault. You are ardent-
ly romantic. You are a fastidious housekeeper
(your toilet pan will always be perfection).
Be careful of your tummy — it is very
delicate.”

A delightfully humorous book for anyone
on your list who loves cats.

 

 

19

 




When
zafeuer

I needs

P a friend ;_

 

 

 

YOU CAN BE
THAT FRIEND

BY MAKING A
CHRISTMAS GIFT TOWARD
THE CARE OF SOME OF
US UNFORTUNATE PETS
WHOSE OWNERS CANNOT
AFFORD To PAY?

PLEASE USE THE
ENCLOSED ENVELOPE

 

 

 

The ASPCA Hospital and Clinic — where no
animal in need of care is ever turned away.

 

PICTURE BY COURTESY 0F STANTON SCIENTIFIC I‘JQUII’MICN’I‘ (LO.

 

 

 




LETTERS

 

 

 

Cinderella Story Sequel

Editor’s note: Last Christmas, in cooperation
with the Pass ’N Boots Cat Food ﬁrm, the
ASPCA sent a cat named Spooks to Alfred
Towner, an invalid in Illinois. This culmi-
nated a nationwide search to ﬁnd a cat
which exactly resembled Rocky, the man’s
dead pet. Now a year later we have this
report from Mrs. Towner.

P Spooks was soon taught to do exactly
the same things Rocky did. A little correct-
ing and a lot of loving and kindness soon
won her to our side. She really adjusted to
us quite fast, and we to her.

The next thing Spooks became the mother
Of three black and white babies, one male
and two females. We kept one of the females
for ourselves. The other female we gave to
Mr. Towner’s uncle. The male cat, Ike, went
to his mother. The eats all have wonderful
homes. They have plenty Of good food, nice
clean beds to sleep in and a pan of sawdust
for accommodations.

Oh yes — one more thing, Mr. Towner
doesn’t believe we will be looking for any
more black and white cats, in the near future
anyway, as we now have an ample supply
on hand. MRS. ALFRED TOWNER

Rock Island, Illinois

New Member

P Enclosed please ﬁnd check for new mem-
bership and $1.00 to help towards your
magazine which is excellently produced, and
showing splendid work all around.

I am delighted to see such wonderful re-
sults stemming from the Society’s tireless
efforts. M. I. K.

New York, N. Y.

25 Year Member
> Thank you for the pin which you so
kindly sent me for sharing the work of the
ASPCA for 25 years. It was my privilege to
teach kindergarten in this city for many
years, in a very poor neighborhood and
kindness to animals had a very prominent
place on my program. Many an unwanted
animal would have been thrown into the
street to starve had it not been for the
lesson the little ones had learned.

FLORENCE E. MORRISON

Brooklyn, N. Y.

Tongue-Twister
F . . . appreciation for the very quiet,
courteous and efficient way in which your
man removed the poor pigeon from the air-
vent on our ﬂoor. Your telephone Operator
was equally efficient as it is not very easy to
get our name on the telephone.
OSKAN HAROOTUNIAN & SONS, INC.
New York, N. Y.

Hospital Client

F I consulted four veterinarians before Dr.
Johnson was recommended to me with such
conﬁdence that I went immediately to your
hospital, and as immedi-ately knew that Dr.
Johnson was the physician I had been lOOk-
ing for. I liked everything he said about
my dog’s trouble, and was comforted with
his understanding of my concern for my
pet, about which I am a little silly.

Now the Operation is over. My dog is re-
covering nicely, and I have sung praise Of
Dr. Johnson and the hospital to many dog
owners.

MRS. FRANK MARTIN WEBBER
New York, N. Y.

 

 

 




011/ Map/7W
”6603’. . .

Our Hospital now has two surgery
rooms. With the sharp increase in the
number of patients in the past few years
these rooms are in constant use. Al-
though they are fully equipped, patients
are often kept waiting and operations
must be postponed because of the heavy
volume of cases.

A new treatment room for minor
surgery, splint work, dressing, cast work
and other treatment would relieve the
bottleneck, reserving the surgery rooms
for major and urgent operations.

An exercise room can be converted
into a treatment room at a cost of
$5,000 for plumbing, cages, ﬂooring and
new equipment. Your gift of one of
these pieces of equipment will help fur-
nish it. A bronze plaque indicating your
gift in memory of a relative, a friend
or a pet will be placed on the item.

INSTRUMENT CABINET $753

For sanitary storage of forceps. probes.
scissors. bandages. syringes. needles and
other surgical supplies. Stainless steel re-
sists corrosion.

 

 

 




WAN ‘ HOH‘ZOOW “QBW.

In the classroom. Education Department's Diana
demonstrates care of dog.

Frozen food freezer in animal kitchen holds ﬁsh
for cats and meat for dogs. Children find it
c-o-l-d.

Youngster tries her skill with forceps
to remove whistle ''swallowed" by
model dog.

Children put their hands under tluoroscope in
Hospital. John Martin explains how the ma-
chine works.

Two girls can't resist playing
with puppy in the dog adop-
tion ward.

lyea'r.‘ This YMH

 

"9'.;S5.(_3h0015, camps

 

and:

 

 

 

 

 

 

Cat perched on a
high ledge catches
youngster's attention
in the cat ward.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

Dead, Stork Waits

SWITZERLAND—A stork won the hearts
of Zurich by risking death in frost and ice
to keep a date with a mate he does not
know is dead.

Residents of Zurich gathered on the Bahn-
hof railway station bridge in the. center of
town to pity or shout encouragement to the
lonely stork.

The stork, who should be ﬂying south to
warmer regions, stands beneath the bridge
each day from dawn to dusk patiently wait-
ing for his mate. At dusk he flies off to his
nest.

The stork’s bride flew into a high tension
wire and was killed recently.

Parakeets Outnumber
Warplanes on Carrier
ENGLAND—A “parrot inspection”

aboard the British aircraft carrier Centaur
disclosed to startled officers that the ship
carries more than 10 times as many para-
keets as planes.

A total of 475 feathered pets turned up
in the crew compartments of the 25,910-ton
carrier on a return trip from the Mediter-
ranean.

Dog Adopts Lion Cub

ITALY — It’s a dog’s life for Leo, a
month-old lion cub at the Milan Zoo.

Leo’s mother has no milk, so the zoo di-
rector appealed for help. She was offered a
mother German shepherd dog that is suckling
a litter of pups.

Leo moved in just like one of the family.

10

Big Four Bars Peacock
GENEVA—Pierrot, the palace peacock,

has been barred from every session of the
Big Four summit conference.

“It’s the ﬁrst conference he ever missed,”
said a UN policeman, “and his feelings are
hurt.”

Pierrot is no ordinary peacock, as dele-
gates to many Geneva conferences know. He
was born on the spacious grounds of the
Palace of Nations in the days of the old
League of Nations. Ever since then he has
been living on the grounds and attending
the meetings.

However this year it was decided that
Pierrot was too noisy and constituted a
trafﬁc hazard.

22 Cats Too Many
NEWARK — A Magistrate acknowledged

everyone’s right to a pet recently but told
one owner he had gone too far by keeping
23 cats in his apartment. The man was
ordered to get rid of the animals within a
week.

Crocodile Gone in N. J. Flood
NEW JERSEY —— The summer ﬂoods

which struck the Delaware River area
devastated a zoo on Route 46. Thirteen
animals —— including a six and a half foot
crocodile—were missing. Ivan Sanderson,
owner of the zoo, said the crocodile, named
Jacka, was harmless.

“He will only be hungry,” Mr. Sanderson

said, “and will eat out of your hand if you
offer him meat.”

 

 

Family Continues Dog Hunt

CHICAGO — A family said it has spent
more than $200 and driven more than 2000
miles to find its two dogs.

And it said it would be willing to spend
more and travel farther to get back Snooper,
a 7-month-old Labrador retriever, and Boots,
a 2-year-old mixed collie and terrier. The
dogs strayed off while the family was on
vacation.

We’re Bad for Monkeys
MINNEAPOLIS More and more mon-

keys in zoos are being put behind glass to
protect their health from hazards of direct
exposure to human spectators.

This was reported recently at the annual
convention of the American Veterinary
Medical Association by the group’s commit-
tee on diseases of wild and furbearing ani-
mals.

Some persons throw gum, tissues or other
contaminated material into the enclosures,
the committee said.

Are Cats Southpaws?

LONDON — Most cats are “lefties,” Prof.
John Cole, of Oxford University, has de-
cided. He let 60 cats try to take a piece of
meat out of a glass tube so small that they
could use only one paw to get at it. If a
feline used the same paw at least 75 times
out of 100, it was “catalogued” as right-
or left-handed.

Of the 60 animals, 23 used their left paw
and only 12 their right, while 25 alternated
between starboard and port.

Gorilla Gets Human Surgery
DETROIT — Maximo, a Detroit Zoo

gorilla, underwent surgery in a hospital for
people recently. And he had a regular sur-
geon for the job. The gorilla had a ruptured
navel. Many human babies have the same
trouble.

The zoo director said the use of a surgeon
and a regular hospital was the natural thing
in the case of a gorilla. “His anatomy is
much the same as a human,” he said. “So
we treat him that way.”

Tail of Sleeping Lion

NEW JERSEY — A BOO-pound lion sub-
dued by 35 sleeping pills lost the tassel end
of its tail to the veterinarian’s knife. Papoose
underwent the humiliating operation while
slumbering like a kitten in his cage at a zoo.
Two veterinarians performed the surgery
after slipping pills in his ground steak break-
fast.

The tail-clipping was the lion’s own fault.
He was a bit too leisurely getting into his
cage and the steel door caught his tail. You
could hear Papoose roar for blocks. The lion
was freed, but the tail was so badly mangled
that amputation was necessary.

Signs of the Times

FLEMINGTON, N. J .—The horse-pulling
contest, for 98 years a standby of the Flem-
ington Fair, was replaced by a tractor-pull-
ing contest. Mules, however, kept their an-
nual event when state farm leaders raced
in a mule derby as a highlight of the
Farmer’s Day program.

11

 

 

 




 

 

 

HE DAYNEMOUTH WARD

For Infectious Diseases

Dr. John E. Whitehead, one of our Hospital's six veterinarians. examined Tiger while the owner'

8-year-old Bruce. Lord, held his breath for the verdict. The diagnosis was infectious enteritis. a highly
communicable disease.

Tiger was immediately sent to the Daynemouth Ward for special care and also to prevent
spread of the disease to other hospital patients. While in the ward the patient was made com-
fortable in one of the 28 individual beige tile cages. He slept on a foam rubber mattress.

ASPCA’s Daynemouth Ward for isolation of com-
municable diseases opened last July, the gift of an
anonymous donor. One of its ﬁrst patients was
Tiger, a year-old-cat, belonging to a small boy. The
patient beneﬁted from every possible precaution
and the most modern equipment for keeping down
the growth and spread of disease bacteria. Thanks
to these precautions against infection, Tiger, and
hundreds of other animals since, have fully
recovered.

0 A disinfectant loot mat near the door prevented the spread of bacteria on shoes. 0 His food
was prepared and served in stainless steel utensils which were sterilized daily in a steam autoclave.
0 All instruments were sterilized. 0 The cages were periodically steam cleaned with 80-pounds

of pressure from an electrically heated steam ienny.

(Continued on, Next Page)

 

 




