 

"if.

Ginger, l8 years old, is the pride of his driver, Mr C.
Bryant, of Chiswick. The horse has won 30 prizes—6 cups

Subscriptions under Deed of Covenant

Did you know that by signing a Deed of Cove;
nant you can almost double your subscription to
the Society at no additional cost to yourself, pro;
Viding you are paying income tax at the standard
rate—at present 93. in the £7

Many subscribers have already signed Deeds
and all annual subscribers are asked to do so, if
they are paying income tax at the rate of 93. in the
£, since the Society is able to recover tax on the
actual subscription: thus, for example, an annual
subscription of 103. becomes 18s. 2d. upon re—
covery of tax, and a subscription of £1 becomes
£1 16s. 4d. Proportionate recovery of tax can be
claimed on all other subscriptions under Deed of
Covenant.

Branch subscribers who wish to give additional
support by subscribing under Deed of Covenant,
should contact the local branch on the matter.
Supporters, who send their gifts direct to Head»
quarters and who wish to give additional help on
the lines indicated, should write to the Chief
Secretary, RSPCA, 105 Jermyn Street, London,
SW1.

 

 

 

 

 

TEMPLE COX CAPTIVE

BOLT SLAUGHTERING
GUNS

Specially recommended and used by the RSPCA

THREE MODELS—ALL SILENT IN
ACTION

‘UNIVERSAL’ for all animals
‘SMALLS’ for all small animals
‘MARK 6’ for all animals. Designed for heavy

use in large Abattoirs and Freezing Works

TEMPLE COX DEVELOPMENT CO. LTD
HIGH STREET, BROMLEY, KENT

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

HOUSE-TO-HOUSE COLLECTIONS—
SUGGESTED SALE OF TOKENS

A Branch Organizer has suggested it might add to the
popularity of house—to—house collections if a token could
be handed to donors in the same manner as an emblem is
used for street collections (ﬂag days). There are objections
to the use of the Flag Day emblem for house—to—house
collections, unless such collections are being made in conv
junction with a Flag Day, when the emblem is quite in
order. The Council has approved the use of the token,
which is quite attractive—the coat of arms is the centre—
piece, with a surrOund bearing the words ‘RSPCA—
House to House Collection’. There is no pin, as in the case
of the Flag Day emblem, since the token is not intended to
be worn, but is exactly what it is called, i.e. a token for a
gift received on behalf of the RSPCA. A specimen of the
token will gladly be forwarded to Branches contemplating
the organization of a house—to—house collection.

FLAG DAY
GOODS

Celluloid Buttons

LIST ON APPLICATION

THE UNIVERSAL BUTTON CO. LTD.
1-9 Birkbeck Street, Bethnal Green, LONDON, E.2

Telephone: BIShopsgate 5750 Telegrams: ‘Unihutco Edo’

 




 

June 1953

THE ANIMAL WORLD 65

 

EMACIATED DOG KEPT IN CUPBOARD—RSPCA INSPECTOR ‘DUMBFOUNDED’

 

lnspector Cramp found this cross-bred bitch closed in a cupboard 4 ft. high, l8 in. wide and 4 ft. long. When the inspector

opened the cupboard, the dog came out and the Inspector saw that her body was covered with wet sores and bald patches.

She was extremely emaciated. The lnspector was dumbfounded at her condition. The owner and his wife, brought before the

Bridgend magistrates by the RSPCA, on a charge of causing unnecessary suffering to the dog by neglect, were each fined 26 l

and between them had to pay £2 l4s. costs. The man and woman were both disqualified from owning a dog or having a
licence for ten years. The dog was given a humane end. (A6289)

FOWLS CARRIED HEADS DOWNWARD
A man who bought three fowls at a market to re—
place stolen birds was ﬁned £2 when he pleaded
guilty at Guildford Borough MagiStrates’ Court
to carrying the fowls with heads downward.

For the RSPCA it was stated that defendant
ignored a policeman’s warning and carried the
birds about 300 yards to a van. By holding them
heads downward he was contravening the Con;
veyance of Live Poultry Order, designed to pre
vent birds suffering distress through blood rush,
ing to the heads.

The defendant said he did not realize he was

being warned oﬂicially and thought the police—_

man was advising him to prevent the birds’ heads
hitting the ground.

He was ordered to pay a guinea costs. (A6424;
Inspector Hawxwell.)

CHAIN EMBEDDED IN GOAT’S NECK
It was stated at Billericay Court that a shop—
keeper’s goat tethered on a piece of land had
three links of a chain embedded in its neck,
causing a wound about two inches long and at
least an inch deep. Also its hooves had not been
trimmed for years. i

The owner was ﬁned £5 with four guineas costs
for causing unnecessary suffering to the animal.

RSPCA counsel said the goat, about ﬁve or six
years old, was not wearing a collar but had a chain
about 20 ft. long round its neck. The chain had
gone into the goat’s neck and the ﬂesh was
showing through three links. Its hooves appeared
not to have been trimmed for years.

‘Extreme Pain’

He submitted that the animal must have
suffered extreme pain. Because of its condition
it had to be humanely destroyed.

The defendant said the goat originally be—
longed to his wife, who had had it as a pet. She
used to look after it but recently, through illness,
was not able to. A kind friend took on the respon—
sibility. The hooves were trimmed on several

occasions.

Surprised

Defendant added he was surprised at the state
of the goat’s neck and had no idea it was in that
kind of condition. , '

A witness said children often played with the
animal and he thought they must have lost or
broken the collar and looped the chain round its

neck. .(A.6453; Inspector Reid.)

CAUSED RABBIT SUFFERING, JAILED

Stated at Poole to have stabbed a rabbit through
the leg with a knife and pushed the other leg
through the wound to form a loop, so that he
could hang up the rabbit when it was still alive,
a man aged 77 was sent to prison for one month
for causing the rabbit unnecessary suffering. He
told the Court he had killed rabbits before; he
had never stabbed a rabbit with a knife in his life.

RSPCA counsel said that the defendant was
before the Bench in August, 1950, for giving rat
poison to his dog. (A6413; Chief Inspector Best.)

 




 

 

June 1953

THE ANIMAL WORLD 63

 

 

Heroes’ Corner
HORSE RESCUED FROM FROZEN RIVER

At a time when there were nineteen degrees of
frost four men were in a boat going to the rescue
of a horse in the frozen River Mersey at Ford
Lane, Northenden, Manchester, when the horse
kicked the boat to pieces and caused the men to
be totally immersed. Two ﬂowing currents and a
mill race with a fast weir made rescue work
difﬁcult. Nevertheless, Police—Constable F. Fitton,
Police Inspector A. V. Abbott, Leading Fireman
J. McKinley and Inspector Coles fought on to
bring the horse to safety. Inspector Coles has
received a bar to the RSPCA Bronze Medal he
already holds and the other three men have each
received a bronze medal.

ENTOMBED TERRIER

A number of rocks, each of which weighed
between ten and twenty stones, had to be blasted
before rescue operation could begin for a terrier
which had become entombed at Hell Crag, Tarnv
brook, Wyresdale. Many people had helped in
the rescue work and Mr S. Hunter ﬁnally chis’
elled and shovelled his way into a cavern where
he was able to ﬁnd the dog. By standing on tiptoe
he was able to hold the animal up sufﬁciently
high for helpers to take him. There was danger
from loose rocks, but luckily Mr Hunter himself
managed to reach safety. He has received the

RSPCA Bronze Medal.

Bronze Medal Winners
RSPCA Bronze Medals for the rescue of animals

at personal risk have been awarded to the
following:

 

 

Divisional Ofﬁcer F. P. M. Raynes, who rescued a
goat from a clay pit at Goonbarrow Works,
Bugle, Cornwall.

Police Constable R. T. Roberts, who rescued a
sheep from a ledge at Craig Perthi, Beddgelert.

Station Ofﬁcer H. Davies, who rescued a dog from
a disused shaft at Parys Mountain, Rhosybol,
Anglesey.

Inspector Foster, who rescued two ewes from the
cliff at Wylde Head, near Cemaes Bay.

Police Constable D. W. Bentley, who rescued a
dog from a disused quarry at Rhodesia, near
Worksop, and »

Fireman]. Freeman for rescuing a dog from a cliff
at Southbourne Overcliff, Bournemouth.

Bars to Bronze Medals

Inspector Ruck, who rescued a swan trapped
under the railway line at Putney Bridge, has re—
ceived a bar to the RSPCA Bronze Medal already
held, and the same award has gone to Mr P.
Orkney Work, who rescued a sheep from a ledge
at Craig Perthi, Beddgelert. Inspector Coles re
ceived the bar already mentioned for rescuing
sheep from a quarry at Hayﬁeld, Derbyshire, as
well as for his part in the rescue of a horse from
the frozen River Mersey at Northenden, ‘Man—
chester.

* Accidents to Ponies in Forest of Dean

Thanks to the unremitting efforts of Inspector
Adams over a long period, warning notices have
now been posted at all entrances to the Forest,
worded as follows: ‘ROADS UNFENCED:
BEWARE: ANIMALS’.

SNOWBOUND ANIMALS RESCUED BY THE RSPCA

Inspector Watts, stationed at Penydarren, Merthyr, is seen putting down fodder
on the Brecon Beacons after a blizzard had cut off the valley farm shown in
the background. In the second picture the ponies are on their way to enjoy hay
put down for them by the Inspector. This picture shows in the background the

village of Penydarren

Photos by courtesy of the Sunday Pictorial

 

 




 

June 1953

the right hon Gentleman give detailed con—
sideration to a further inexpensive experiment
and adopt the time’honoured method of putting
salt on their tails?

SIR T. DUGDALE: I am not responsible by
statute for starlings, but I agree that present ex,
periments have been ineffective. It would appear
that starlings are more easily trapped on their
feeding grounds and not where they go to roost.

LTeCOL LIPTON: Will the Minister stop fooling
round with the West End of London and con—
centrate on the British countryside?

Rabbit Traps

SIR T. MOORE (RSPCA Council Member) asked
the Minister of Agriculture what progress has
been made with his investigations and trials to
ﬁnd a more humane rabbit trap than the present
gin trap?

SIR T. DUGDALE: The Imbra rabbit trap has
shown that it will catch and kill rabbits humanely,
and supplies have been ordered from the manu’
facturers for use by county agricultural executive
committees under working conditions. Manu’
facturing problems have been holding up supply,
but deliveries should be starting within the next
few days.

SIR T. MOORE: While warmly welcoming the
reply of my right hon Friend, may I ask if he can
say when these wretched instruments, gin traps,
are to be abolished?

SIR T. DUGDALE: I cannot at this stage because
we must have comprehensive trials Of the new
Imbra trap.

MR PHILLIPS PRICE: Will the right hon Gentle!
man try to make this new trap better known by
the public? Very little is known about it now.

SIR T. DUGDALE: The trouble has been the
manufacturing problems. It is only just now that
they have been cleared. An initial order for about
5,000 was placed by my Department in Septem«
ber, 1952, deliveries are now expected to start
this week, and this initial order should be com—
pleted in the next fortnight.

Children (Cruelty to Animals)

MR CHAPMAN asked the Secretary of State for
the Home Department whether his attention has
been drawn to the increase during 1952 in cona
victions of young people for wilful cruelty to
animals; and what steps he proposes to take to
help reduce the ﬁgures.

SIR D. MAXWELL FYEE: Ofﬁcial ﬁgures of the
number of children and young persons found
guilty of cruelty to animals during 1952 are not
yet available.

MR CHAPMAN: Is the Secretary of State not
aware that unofﬁcial calculations show that the
ﬁgures may have gone up something like 66%

THE ANIMAL’WORLD 67

per cent or 100 per cent? In those circumstances,
would he not, for example, consult the Minister
of Education so that in schools there should be a
little more attention to teaching children some
elements of care for and understanding of ani—
mals, so that we should not have to suffer this
horrible blight on the nation?

SIR D. MAXWELL FYEE: I am very willing to
have the consultations, and if the hon Gentleman
will refer me to the basis of his ﬁgures I should be
greatly obliged.

Horses (Transit from Ireland)

MR PETER FREEMAN (RSPCA Council Member)
asked the Minister of Agriculture the number of
live horses imported from Eire and Northern
Ireland into this country during each of the ﬁve
years ended in 1952; the average length of the
sea voyage on each route used, from embarkation
to disembarkation; the number of hours ap—
proximately taken for the voyages; the ports Of'
embarkation and disembarkation; the number
killed and injured each year on board ship or
through accident en route; the average distance
from the port of disembarkation to the place of
slaughter in this country; and the number of
horses imported expressly for slaughter, for
human consumption in this country from Eire
and Northern Ireland, in each case.

SIR T. DUGDALE: The ﬁgures asked for in the
ﬁrst and last parts of the question are not avail~
able. Imports of horses not intended for food
from the Republic of Ireland into the United
Kingdom during each of the ﬁve years were:

1948 16,937
1949 15,633
1950 14,734
1951 17,029
1952 .. 15,060

The ﬁgures include temporary importations for
racing or breeding. The trade returns of animals
imported for food do not contain separate ﬁgures
for horses; neither do they distinguish between
imports from the Republic of Ireland into Great
Britain and Northern Ireland respectively. There
are no statistics of imports into Great Britain
from Northern Ireland.
Particulars of the main routes are as follows:

Distance in Average
nautical duration of

miles. voyage

(hrs. )
Cork—Fishguard . . . 126% 9
Waterford—Birkenhead 189 19
Dublin—Holyhead 57 4
Dublin—Birkenhead . . . 1 1 2 10
Belfast—Birkenhead . . . 135 12
Belfast-Heysham . .. 126 8
Belfast—Glasgow 104 10
Limerick—Birkenhead 145 43

I understand that horses seldom travel on the

 

 




 

 

  ANIMAEH

EWORLD

THE OFFICIAL MAGAZINE OF THE RSPCA

 

Vol XLVIII No 6 New Series

JUNE I953

PRICE THREEPENCE
4s. 6d. per annum. Post paid

THE ANIMALS OF OUR ROYAL FAMILY

Her Majesty The Queen, principal Royal Patron
of the RSPCA, who is shown on the front cover
making a characteristic gesture of friendliness to
an animal, has always been fond of them. The
Queen and her family have always had dogs and
horses. At the present time Her Majesty has two
Corgis—Susan, who is over eight years old, and
Sugar, who is quite young. Both dogs spend
plenty of time with the children, who are fond
of them.

The Queen Mother has two Corgis—Crackers,
who is elderly, having been born before the recent
war, and Honey. Princess Margaret has chosen a
Sealyham, whose name is Johnnie.

The Queen began to ride when about four years

old, and from then onwards had ponies who, in
due course, were ridden by Princess Margaret.
Her Majesty rides now whenever time allows.
She has a hack named Pegasus and has been seen
in public at the last two Trooping the Colour
ceremonies riding the police horse Winston.

Both Prince Charles and Princess Anne own
ponies, though they have not yet learnt to ride
them. Prince Charles has a Shetland called Cloudy
and Princess Anne an Exmoor pony, Heather
Maid. Princess Anne’s pony is still only about
two years old and has, therefore, not yet come to
join the other horses in the Royal Mews.

The Duke of Edinburgh has three or four
ponies which are kept at Windsor.

 

“4‘ 3“ I V

 

[Photo by courtesy of The Star, London

Freedom! A wild bird released in Green Park, London, by

the RSPCA. The bird was one of three chaffinches and two

greenfinches given their freedom. They were obtained by

the RSPCA during investigations into the activities of
illegal trafﬁckers in wild birds

RSPCA ACHIEVEMENTS
Water for Cattle at Cockermouth Market

‘ For the past five years, Inspector Turnell has

been campaigning for drinking facilities to be
provided for the cattle coming into this market,
many of whom have travelled all the way from
Northern Ireland and arrive tired and thirsty.
A new trough has now been erected and this will
enable these animals to obtain a refreshing drink
at the end of their exhausting journey, a pro—
vision which should have been made six years ago.

Comfort for Calves

Thanks to the unremitting efforts of Senior
Inspector Thwaites, a well—built, spacious pen
has been provided for the young calves at Oke—
hampton Market, who previously were exposed
to wind and weather in conditions of the utmost
discomfort. Covered accommodation for pigs
has also been erected, which will house 400 ani—
mals. Both these improvements were urgently
needed and will make the lot of the animals
concerned more tolerable.

Another Victory

At Wellingborough, Inspector Daniels has suc—
ceeded in persuading the authorities to supply
straw for the calves. As the calf shed faces north,
the animals have suffered greatly from cold in the
past and the provision of bedding will prevent
much needless suffering on the part of these
young creatures.

 




 

VOLUME XLVIII No THREEPENCE JUNE 1953

[Photo by courtesy of Sunday Graphic
A pat fram Her Majesty The Queen,
principal Royal Patron of the R. S.P. C.A.

THE OFFICIAL ORGAN OF THE RSPCA

 




 

 

 

June 1953

past, they would have endured much discomfort.

Inspector Ambrose accompanied the animals
on their journey, watched the unloading at In—
stow and saw the horses and cattle fed and
watered on arrival at Barnstaple Market, where
comfortable quarters awaited them. His presence
at every stage of their journey prevented rough
handling and ensured proper care.

EXPORT OF HORSES FROM JERSEY

As a result of correspondence between the
RSPCA and the Jersey SPCA on the matter of the
export of horses from that Island to the United
Kingdom, a new Act has been passed, containing
the following clauses:

‘No horse may be shipped to the United
Kingdom without a certiﬁcate from the Veterin—
ary Oﬂicer stating that it is ﬁt to work; exceptions
could be made in respect of certain categories of
horses—for example race horses being re—ex—
ported after taking part in race meetings or horses
being sent to the United Kingdom for breeding.

‘That in order to remove the incentive for
owners of horses to export them for slaughter the
COmmittee should be authorized to purchase
horses for slaughter and pay the owners at a ﬂat
rate per pound live weight.

‘That the meat obtained from the slaughter of
horses should be dyed in an approved manner
and sold by the Committee to approved dealers
in meat unﬁt for human consumption.’

 

TANGANYIKA ESSAY COMPETITION
This attractive shield was bought out of a» bequest by Mr
Bechardas Premji. The trophy is held by the school attended
by the winning essay writer in a competition open to all
Tanganyika schools. Mr Bechardas Premji, who died
recently, was a keen supporter-of the RSPCA’s work in
Tanganyika

 

THE ANIMAL WORLD 695

 

CRUELTY—FROM TAN GAN YlKA

   
 

gm (.._-
Mrs l. Slater, RSPCA Territorial Organizer, who sends this
picture, says that the owner of the dog, an Asian, was fined
a total of l20s. by the Tanga Magistrates for neglecting the
animal. The dog was rescued by the Tanga RSPCA, but was
very ill, and later died

——AND KlNDNESS
An African with his prize winning dog,
‘Sawa’, at the RSPCA dog show, Govern-
ment House Grounds, Dar-es-Salaam

 

   

 




 

 

 

 

June 1953

Church Hall, Exeter. In the work of organization Mr Beedell
had the help of Inspector Pickett.

Finchley, Golders Green, Hendon and District Mrs Dodd,
East Finchley auxiliary hon secretary, organized a whist
drive which raised £5 7s. 3d. for branch funds.
Glamorgan—Mid and Port Talbot Mrs O. B. Hands, Porth-
cawl auxiliary hon secretary, reports that a jumble sale raised
£38 for branch funds.

Gloucestershire—Mid The principal speaker at the branch
annual meeting was Mrs Desborough Walford, Council
member; Mr W. A. Sibly, Council member, attended. Mrs
Porri, branch hon treasurer, was pleased with the result of
the meeting, which had usually taken the form of an annual
committee meeting. Win g-Commander Hillier, branch organ-
izer, gave an address. The meeting was held at the Church
Institute, Stroud, and Mr T. E. Sanders, JP, OBE, branch
chairman, presided. Mrs Desborough Walford and Wing-
Commander Hillier were thanked by Lt-Col Sir Lionel
Darell, branch president, and by Mr W.A. Sibly. Mrs G.
Higgins, who has retired from the ofﬁce of hon secretary
after eight years in the position, said that 1952 had been
a record year. Mrs Porri had now taken over the hon secre-
taryship. Senior Inspector Dadswell reported having received
213 complaints of cruelty.

Grimsby and District Major Pulleine, branch organizer,
attended the branch annual meeting.

Kent—Ashford and District A concert organized by Mrs
Hopkins, Woodchurch auxiliary hon secretary, raised
£12 ls. for the Animal Distress Fund.

Kent—Canterbury and District Mr G. T. Hall, branch
president, presided over the branch annual meeting at the
County Hotel, Canterbury. He was supported by the Mayor,
Councillor J. R. Barrett; the branch chairman, Mr E. J,-
Mount; the hon secretary, Mrs Dance; the hon treasurer,
Mr A. H. Matheson, and Assistant Chief Constable N.
Fowler and Supt G. Beslee. Mr Hall, welcoming supporters,
paid tribute to the work of the hon secretary and to the
help she received from Mr Dance. Mr Mount read Inspector
Miles’ report which showed that 73 cautions were glven. An
outline of the RSPCA‘s work generally was given by Mr
C. R. Davies, branch organizer.

Mrs Dance, branch hon secretary, reports that whist drives
held monthly between January and April raised £17 15s. 8d.
for branch funds. ‘ -
Kent—Isle of Thanet At the San Clu Hotel, Mr E. Spencer
Payne, branch chairman, presided over the branch annual

 

Durham and District branch annual meeting group: (from
left to right) Mr A. B. Peacock, hon treasurer, Mrs Wild
(wife of the Dean of Durham), the Deputy Mayor, Counallor
]. R. W. Rae, the Hon H. j. N. Vane (presenting certificate
for bravery to Thomas Davison), Major H. H. W. Pulleine,
branch organizer, Alderman A. ]. Alsop, RSPCA councrl
member, County Councillor Mrs H. H. Rushford, ]P, Lady
Davina Vane and Miss Gwen S. Wilkinson, hon secretary

 

THE ANIMAL WORLD 71

meeting. Miss Thomson received from Mr C. R. Davies
(branch organizer) a RSPCA silver badge and certiﬁcate for
her distinguished work for the animal welfare cause. Miss
Lawrance, branch hon secretary, presented a report of a busy
year. Inspector Faulkner spoke of his various tasks during
the year.

*

Mrs Crook, Broadstairs auxiliary hon secretary, reports
that an Easter dance made a proﬁt of £60 11s. 9d.
Kent—Tunbridge Wells and District For rescuing a bird
from the top of a power station cooling tower, Mr Norman
Smith, a local man, received from the Mayor of Tunbridge
Wells, Councillor John Crabtree, an RSPCA medal. He re-
ceived it at the branch annual meeting held in the Council
Chamber, Tunbridge Wells. Another presentation was made
for animal rescue work. This was a certiﬁcate which went to
Inspector Pigott for rescuing a cat from a roof. Mr H. D.
Gosschalk, branch chairman, spoke of the extra money that
needed to be found by the branch to pay for the Inspector’s
services. Lt-Col G. E. L. Pardington, branch hon secretary,
reported a balance of £117 73. 2d.

Kent—West Mr H. P. Archer, branch chairman, presided
over the branch annual meeting in the absence of the presi-
dent, Lord Dunsany, who is now in America. The meeting
was held at the Council Ofﬁces, Sevenoaks, and was extremely ..
well attended. The new auxiliary hon secretary of Sevenoaks,
Miss Goldsmith, was present, and was welcomed to the
branch by Mr L. E. Green, branch hon secretary and
treasurer. A report was submitted by Senior Inspector Smith
and Mr C. R. Davies, branch organizer, spoke on the general
work of the Society.

Kidderminster and District Sir George Eddy, branch presi—
dent, presided over the branch annual meeting. Miss C.
Badland, a former hon secretary, at the age of 98 attended
the meeting, and spoke in moving the re-election of the ofﬁ-
cers and committee. She was accompanied by her sister aged
101. Wing-Commander Hillier, branch organizer, gave an
address. (Branch hon secretary, Miss Osborne.)

Leeds Miss Naomi Jacob gave a stirring address at the
branch annual meeting. Major Pulleine, branch organizer,
attended.

Lincolnshire—Mid, and Lincoln Miss A. Pury-Cust, Spilsby
auxiliary hon secretary, reports that collections taken at the
Franklin Cinema, Spilsby, in aid of branch funds amounted
to £4 11s. 1d. Mr Badley and the staff were helpful.
Loughborough and North Leicestershire Mrs Wykes, Quorn
auxiliary hon secretary, collected £15 10s. for the Animal
Distress Fund, and Mr S. W. Weston of Shepshed, collected
£25 15s. 3d. for branch funds.

Macclesﬁeld, South-East Cheshire and Buxton At the
branch annual meeting, Mr C. O. Hockin, Council member,
said that it was regrettable that the number of convictions of
juveniles for cruelty had increased nationally. The branch
chairman, the Rev H. L. Williams, congratulated Inspector
Cook on completing 25 years’ service. In her report Miss
A. M. Wain, hon secretary, said that the greatest achievement
in a very active year had been the stopping of the driving of
cattle through the town. Among oﬂicials elected were the
following: Branch chairman, Rev H. L. Williams; hon
secretary, Miss A. M. Wain; assistant hon secretary, Miss F.
Allen; hon treasurer, Mr A. Young.

*

Prizes gained in the essay competition were presented to
Buxton children by the Mayor, the Duke of Devonshire.
Mr C. O. Hockin, RSPCA Council member, and Miss A. M.
Wain, branch hon secretary, were present. Major Pulleine,
branch organizer, gave a short talk.

Norfolk West Dr Bull, chairman of the auxiliary, presided
over the Hunstanton auxiliary annual meeting in the Masonic
Hall, ‘Golden Lion’, Hunstanton. Among those present were
Miss -E. M. Hunter, Council member, and Mrs Hardy, hon
branch secretary. Major Chapman spoke about the Society’s
work generally and the ﬁlm ‘A Change of Heart’ was shown
by courtesy of Councillor E. Wyer. Reports were submitted

 




ROYAL SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS
Headquarters: 105 Jermyn Street, "London, S.W.1

Founded 1822

 

P A T R O N S
HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN

HER MAJESTY QUEEN ELIZABETH, THE QUEEN MOTHER
HER ROYAL HIGHNESS PRINCESS ALICE COUNTESS OF ATH LONE
HER ROYAL HIGHNESS PRINCESS ARTHUR OF CONNAUG HT

HER GRACE WINIFRED DUCHESS OF PORTLAND

THE EARL OF SHAFTESBURY, KP, PC

TAGIUS, THE REv DOM. AMBROSE, OSB, MA
*ALLIBERT, MRS
‘ALSOP, ALDERMAN A. J., FCRA, FCIS, JP
BERE, SIR RUPERT DE LA, MP
BERTIE OF THAME, THE VISCOUNrEss
BRANSOM, MISS L. G., FRSA
BYWATER, H. E., ESQ., MRcvs
‘COOPER, ALDERMAN J. D., JP
DAWES, CAPTAIN H. w., CBE, MRcvs
‘DOWDELL, MRS
ESTCOURT-OSWALD, MIss AGNES, MB (LOND), DPH
(CANTAB), DOMS
‘EVANS, MRS DAVID, BA

 

 

VICE-PRESIDENTS

SIR MALCOLM SAROENT, IION LLI), I) MUS, FRCM, FRSA

COLONEL R. M. POWELL, I)S()

THE COUNCIL (1952-1953)

 

Chairman: THE LORD MERTHYR, DL, TD
Vice-Chairman: *MRS WALLIS POWER, JP

FREEMAN, PETER, ESQ, MP
GASKOIN, C. J. B., ESQ, MA
GREENWOOD, ANTHONY, ESQ, MA, MP
*HARVEY, MRS J. w., MA
*HOCKIN, c. OWEN, ESQ
HOGG, s. R., ESQ, Dso, MC
*HUNTER, MISS
LEE, MRS
LOCKWOOD, LT-COL J. c., JP, TD, MP
LONGMAN, MRS w.
MURRAY, BRIGADIER C. A., CBE, MRcvs
MOORE, LT-COL SIR THOMAS, CBE, MP
*PARRER, MAURICE c., ESQ, MISAC

 

I’()Ul.I€I'I‘, 'IHIi liARL
POWELL, COL RM, I)S()
RAI'I‘RAY, 'IHI- RlV DR R. l".

*RIIaCK, H. H., I-SI)

SHAFI‘ESBURY, THE (‘OUNTLSS OF

SIBLY, w. A., ISO, MA, JP

SNELL, TIIE REV PREBENDARY L. J. B., MBE, JP
IERRINGTON, IIII- LORD, KBE, MA

THOMAS, w. s. RI:SSI-I 1., ESQ,

TUFNIaLL, LII~ZU'l‘-(‘()MMANDER R. L., MA RN
‘WALPORD, MRS DESBOROUGH
‘WHI'I‘E, HARRY, l-‘SQ. I-‘CA
‘WINCIIES'I‘I-tR, F. J., I-SQ, FCIS, FSS

 

"‘ Denotes Branch Representative 1' Denotes C o-opted Member

OFFICE BEARERS APPOINTED BY THE COUNCIL

Hon Treasurer—LT-COL J. C. LOCKWOOD, JP, TD, MP
Deputy Hon Treasurer—HARRY WHITE, ESQ, FCA
Hon Medical Ofﬁcer—A. F. WHYTE, ESQ, MB, CHB Legal Secretary—J. HALL, ESQ

Bankers-MESS“ COUTTS AND CO, STRAND, LONDON Chief Veterinary Officer—MAJOR R. C. G. HANCOCK, BSC, MRCVS
Auditors—MESSRS VINEY, PRICE & GOODYEAR, CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS

 

Chief Secretary—ARTHUR w. Moss. ESQ. MBE, ACIS
ASSIstant Secretary —-D. A. L. CAMM, ESQ, BA

Telegrams—WHITEHALL 7177 Telephone—Whitehall 7177

 

FLAG DAYS

Branch Ofﬁcials are reminded it is advisable to order
ﬂag day equipment about four weeks before the
actual date of the collection. The number of such
efforts has increased to a very gratifying extent and it
will assist Headquarters in dealing with flag day
requirements if orders are placed at an early date;
early delivery of equipment to organizers will assist
in the distribution of tins, trays and emblems to
collectors and will allow time in which to order
additional equipment should the original order prove
inadequate to meet late offers of potential collectors.

Headquarters will always do everything possible to
meet rush orders and equipment will be placed on
rail if necessary, but in such cases there can be no
guarantee that supplies will arrive in time in spite of
every endeavour made by Headquarters.

Early ordering and delivery of ﬂag day equipment
does much to assist in making successful collections.

 

 

 

    

HOUSE—TO-HOUSE COLLECTIONS

(We give, wherever possible, the place at which the house‘to‘
house collection was made, and the name of the organizeT 07”

SURE mWH Xi?

CAPTIVE BOLT PISTOL organizers.)

FOR ALL ANIMALS Haversham, Mrs Seggs, aux hon sec, £8 05. 1d.; Hedon,

3”, MIN cum . s . Eﬂcunn ﬁiss Longhorn, £7 ls. 5a.; South Tidworth, Mrs King and

s “In SHElVOKE lID °
Hell 5465 rs Rlchard Green, £5 10$.

 

 

.———__.‘L L L




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

62

THE ANIMAL WORLD

June 1953

 

 

 

 

 

 

‘3.

[Photos by courtesy of the London Evening News

An injured duck in the water-filled basement of a new building near Victoria, London, brought help from RSPCA
Headquarters. Our pictures show the rescue of the bird, whose injuries were later successfully treated at an
RSPCA London clinic

 

OBITUARY

With sincere regret we report the following
deaths:

Mr C. H. B. Draper, former chairman of
Kent—Tunbridge Wells Branch Committee; Mrs
Jarman, hon secretary of Bridgwater Auxiliary;
Mr Oliver Cromwell, a supporter; Miss F. G.
Shackleton, hon secretary of Frome Auxiliary;
Miss E. Jeeves, a supporter.

TELEVISION HELPS

Mrs Hart, Cleveland and Tees’side Branch hon
secretary, says that a middle'aged worker who
lives in a cottage by himself has for a month been
showing the television Children’s Hour to chil’
dren from the neighbourhood. The youngsters

gladly make a donation to help the RSPCA, and

when Mrs Hart emptied his collecting bOX
recently it contained £4 23. 3d.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

64 THE ANIMAL WORLD June 1953

‘,
‘—

THE RSPCA AT WORK

APRIL 1953

RSPCA INSPECTORS

2,132 Complaints of cruelty investigated.
3 Offenders imprisoned.
70 Offenders ﬁned.
33 Persons guilty of minor acts of cruelty cautioned in
writing.

849 Registered cautions were administered by Inspectors.

CLASSIFICATION OF CONVICTIONS

HORSES—Working in an unﬁt state, overdriving,

neglecting 10
CATTLE—Neglecting, conveying in an improper manner,
etc. 7
SHEEP—Neglecting 1
PIGS—Neglecting . . . . 5
DOGS—Neglecting, failing to rel ease from steel tooth trap 1 1
CATS—Neglecting, injuring with missile from catapult,
kicking 7
PIGEON—Plucking out tail feathers 1
DUCK—Killing in improper manner 1
BLACKBIRDS—Stoning to death 2
BUDGERIGAR—Unreasonably injuring - 1
CHICKS—Neglecting . . . . . 1
OFFENCES UNDER THE PROTECTION OF BIRDS ACT, 1925:
Confining birds in small cages 3
OFFENCES UNDER THE WILD BIRDS PROTECTION ACTS:
Being in possession of recently taken birds 2
Using traps for purpose of taking 2
Killing 3
VARIOUS OFFENCES:
Steel—tooth traps—set in open 4
Permitting in Offences 7
Causing in an Offence 1
Laying poison 1
Chicky—exchanging form toys 1
Infringements of Knackers Regulations 2
- TOTAL NUMBER OF CONVICTIONS 73

During APRIL 1953, Magistrates, at the request of the RSPCA,
disqualiﬁed FIVE persons from owning a dbg or holding a dog
licence. Disqualiﬁcations were as follows: ONE for THRE YEARS;
FOUR for FIVE YEARS.

Total numberof COMPLAINTS from January Ist 8,646
, Total number of CONVICTIONS from January Ist 296
Total number of CAUTIONS from January Ist 3,272

HEADQUARTERS CLINICS

No. of animals handled:
Cats, 4,678 Dogs, 3,987 Misc, 294 Total, 8,959
No. of animals given emergency ﬁrst-aid: 1,753

PlITNEY CONVALESCENT WARD

No. of animals handled:
Cats, 29 Dogs, 57 Misc., 2 Total, 88

NIGHT STAFF

No. of calls received: 1,562

Miles covered by ambulance in respect of urgent calls: 1,607
No. of animals rescued: 14

No. of cases treated by veterinary surgeon: 200

NORTH WALES UNIT

F irst—aid cases:

Cats, 36 Dogs, 57 Misc” 1 Total, 94
No. of other animals handled by Unit:
Cats, 68 Dogs, 48 Misc., 2 Total, 118

No. of miles covered by Unit during month: 2,290

AWARDS

No. of cases considered 6]
Bronze Medal 1 3
Bar to Bronze IVIedals 2
Certificates ... ... 19

RECORDS FOR I 952

COMPLAINTS 30,750
CONVICTIONS .,. ... ... ... 962
CAUTIONS 1 1,599

HEADQUARTERS CL1N1CS
No of animals handled: 160 2,63

NIGHT STAFF
No. of calls: 19, 839

NORTH WALLS UNIT
No. of animals handled: 3,308

AWARDS
Margaret Wheatley Cross 1
Silver Medals . 11
Bars to Silver Medals 3
Bronze Medals 52

Bars to Bronze Medals. .. 5
Merit Certiﬁcates 104

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

66 THE ANIMAL WORLD

June 1953

 

QUESTIONS IN PARLIAMENT
Accidents (Dogs)

SIR W. DARLING asked the Minister of Transport
if, in view Of the fact that 2,696 dogs were re,
sponsible for that number of road accidents, he
will amend" the Highway Code with a View to
bringing dogs on the public highway under strict
control. "

MR LENNOX~BOYDz The present Highway Code
urges road users to keep dogs under control, but
"I will see if we can introduce something more
effective into the revised edition which is now
being prepared. -

Slaughterhouse, Sittingbourne

MR P. WELLS asked the Minister of Food when
he proposes to close the Sittingbourneslaughten
house?

DR HILL: No decision has been taken to close
this slaughterhouse.

MR WELLS: Is the hon Gentleman aware that
about 6,000 animals are killed in the slaughter—
house annually, and that the meat inspectors and
the slaughterers work in appalling conditions?
Is he further aware that the medical officer of
health, in his annual report, says this: ‘These
premises are obsolete and the conditions under
which meat is prepared for human food are un—
satisfactory, and will continue so until a small
modern slaughterhouse is provided’?

DR HILL: I appreciate the hon Member’s point.
The new Canterbury slaughterhouse is coming
into operation this week*. There will now be a
review of existing facilities, and the point the hon
Gentleman makes, and those made by the local
authority, will be taken into account.

* This was said on February 9 last.

Gin Traps

COMMANDER DONALDSON asked the Secretary of
State for Scotland if he is aware of the public
concern regarding the use of gin traps, which
cause unnecessary suffering both to rabbits and
domestic animals; and what steps he is taking to
introduce a more humane type of trap for use
in Scotland?

MR SNADDEN: My right hon Friend is aware of

the public concern, but he cannot, in the in— ‘

terests of food production, prohibit the use of
the gin trap until an effective, humane substitute
is readily available. Eight inventors have sub—
mitted seventeen models for consideration as
alternatives to the gin. Of that number, one——
the ‘Imbra’——has given encouraging results on
ﬁeld trial, and one—the Miller ‘Killmore’—has
shown possibilities which may be developed in
later models. My right hon Friend is arranging
for further trials of the Imbra and of any other
available types in the spring.

COMMANDER DONALDSON: Can my hon Friend
say whether, when his right hon Friend has had
sufficient time to test these new traps, he has
the authority to enforce their use once they
have been approved?

MR SNADDEN: Statutory powers exist under
the Agriculture (Scotland) Act, 1948, enabling
the Secretary of State for Scotlanc to do what the
hon and gallant Member is asking.

Calves (Slaughter)

MR E. JOHNSON asked the Minister of Food at
how many markets held on Saturdays calves are
sold for slaughter; and for how long they are kept
before being killed?

MAJOR LLOYD GEORGE: Ten. The calves are
slaughtered either on the same day or on the
following day.

MR JOHNSON: Can the Minister say how it is
possible to slaughter calves sold on a Saturday
the same day or the following day, when so few
slaughterhouses, if any, are open; and what arr
rangements are made for the feeding of the calves
until such time as they are slaughtered? Is he
satisﬁed that these arrangements are adequate?

MAJOR LLOYD GEORGE: If the hon Gentleman
has any instances where this is not satisfactory,
I shall be happy to look into them.

Quarantine Premises (Inspection)

LT—COL LOCKWOOD (RSPCA Council Member)
asked the Minister of Agriculture to what extent
regular inspections are carried out by his ofﬁcers
of approved quarantine kennels in order to en~
sure that they are kept up to the required stan—
dard; in how many cases it has been necessary to
withdraw his approval of a place of detention
within the last three years; and on what grounds.

SIR T. DUGDALE: Premises approved for the
detention of imported dogs and cats are inspected
quarterly by my officers. It has not been necessary
within the last three years to withdraw approval
of a place of detention.

Starlings, Trafalgar Square

MR DODDS asked the Minister of Agriculture
what have been the results of the experiments
which have been made to reduce the number of
starlings in Trafalgar Square; what methods have
been used, and how far the bird population has
been reduced.

SIR T. DUGDALE: Cage traps have been used in
these experiments, so far, I fear, with negligible
results. But final conclusions have not yet been
reached. »

MR DODDS: Is the Minister aware that about
40,000 starlings ﬁnd accommodation each night
in Trafalgar Square; that one starling has been
caught, and that one fell in by accident? Would

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

68 THE ANIMAL WORLD

June 1953

 

 

lastvnamed route. Casualties on the voyage during
the period in question were as follows:

Slaughtered
Injured because of
but not injury or
Died slaughtered other reasons
1948 ... 9 1
1949 ... 6 — 5
1950 2 1 Z
195 1 ... 22 ~ 1 l.
195 Z ... 1 l 4

I have no information as to the average dis;
tance between the port of disembarkation and
the'place of slaughter of horses imported for food.

Slaughter of Horses (Inquiry)
SIR I. FRASER asked the Minister'of Food if he
will make a statement as to when he expects the
Committee of the Transport and Slaughter of
Horses to report; and what interim action has
been taken to control, or discourage this trade.
MAJOR LLOYD GEORGE: I expect that the report
of the Committee of Inquiry into the Slaughter
of Horses will be ready during the summer.
It would not be appropriate to act in anticipation
of the Committee’s ﬁndings.

GREY SQUIRRELS
MR ANTHONY GREENWOOD (RSPCA Council
member) asked the Minister of Agriculture, in
connection with his campaign to reduce the num»
bers of grey squirrels and to pay 13. for every

squirrel killed, what steps he proposes to take to
ensure that those who participate in the cam—
paign adopt only humane methods.

MR NUGENT: The importance of trapping
squirrels in a humane manner has been stressed
in the announcement of this campaign, and
reference to humane killing of trapped squirrels
is made in the published leaflets.

A second question addressed in Parliament to
the Minister of Agriculture was from MR
BOSSOM. He asked the Minister if he was aware
that when a reward was offered in Canada re—
cently for the delivery of tails of undesirable
pests, men were caught cutting off the tails of live
animals and then letting them go again, so that
they could continue breeding; and if he would
therefore consider requiring those asking the
reward for killing grey squirrels to deliver the
entire carcase and not only the tail.

SIR T. DUGDALE: The importance of trapping
squirrels in a humane manner has been stressed
by the Forestry Commission in announcing the
campaign, and reference to humane killing of
trapped squirrels is made in the published
leaﬂets. Further, it would be an offence under
the Protection of Animals Act, 1911, to cut off
the tail of a live squirrel. For these reasons, I do
not believe that the bounty scheme recently an,
nounced will have the effect feared, and I do not
think the change suggested would be justified.

 

 

Pets and their young owners at the
Savoy Cinema, Newark, pet show
which was run by the cinema’s Young

Citizens’ Matinee Club and the RSPCA

[Photo taken by Mr Norman Martin and
reproduced by Courtesy of the Newark Herald

 

. A LASTING IMPRESSION

An Education Ofﬁcer wrote to the RSPCA
Headquarters after the visit of a school lecturer
to his area: ‘The schools appreciated and enjoyed
her talks, and I have no doubt she left with the
children a lasting impression of the right attitude
of mind towards animals.’

Since the last report 24 lectures were given in
schools in Oxfordshire, Windsor, Newcastle—on,
Tyne, Crayford, Hawley, Twickenham and the
London area. Lectures were also given to two
Animal Defender groups in Peckham and Black—
burn, two Youth Clubs in Barnsley and Upton
Park, a Children’s Cinema Club in Sittingbourne,

the Tollington Park Red Cross Cadets, two groups
of Brownles and Guides in the-London area.
Twentyaone new Animal Defender groups were

formed; 437 children joined the Headquarters
Group. .

TRANSPORT OF ANIMALS
FROM LUNDY ISLAND

As a result of the representations of the RSPCA

. the Admiralty decided to supply landing craft to

Ship some hundred head of stock, including
heifers in calf and ewes in lamb, from Lundy
Island to the mainland. Had the animals had to.
SWIm OUt to the boat, as was the custom in the

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

70 THE ANIMAL WORLD

June 1953

 

 

    

[Photo by COurtesy of the Eastern Daily Press

Flood Echoes: Senior lnspector Tye joins Salvation Army
workers to receive the congratulations of Lady Churchill,
wife of the Prime Minister, at Great Yarmouth

BRANCH NEWS

 

   

[Photoz H. David Petrie
Lying in the sun

Balham and Tooting Mrs Lee, branch hon secretary and
Council member, reports that Inspector Keech had an ex-
hibition and raised a sum in the neighbourhood of £35 for
branch funds. The Inspector had a collecting box made to
represent Mufﬁn the Mule.

Barnet and District Inspector Slater spoke to Police Proba-
tioners at the County Police Headquarters at Hatﬁeld. His
address was on the care and welfare of animals and on the
work of the Society.

Berkshire———Newbury and District The branch accounts pre-
sented at the annual meeting by Mr J. M. Laycock, hon
treasurer, showed that receipts amounted to £402 18s. 6d.
with a balance in hand of £21 12s. 9d. Wing-Commander
Hillier, branch organizer, said that the average amount for
maintaining an Inspector was very substantial. Inspector
Tynan, submitting a report on behalf of himself and of
Inspector Checksﬁeld, said that 83 complaints were investi-
gated. Branch olﬁcials were elected as follows: Chairman,
Mrs Rose; hon secretary, Mrs Daphne Waites; assistant hon
secretary, Mrs Laycock; hon treasurer, Mr J. M. Laycock;
hon auditor, Mr C. A. Hawker.

Burton-on—Trent Mrs Bird, branch hon secretary, reports
that Mrs W. N. Payton, deputy chairman of the branch,
raised £12 15s. 7d. for the Animal Distress Fund by organiz-

ing a coffee party, and that Mrs D. D. Wallace raised
£13 ls. 6d. by a similar party to help the work of the RSPCA.

*

A rugby match arranged by Inspector Jones in aid of
branch funds was played recently at Peel Croft. Wing-
Commander Hillier, branch organizer, was present, and
acted as host.

Caernarvonshire West and Anglesey An account received
from Mrs Addison, Holyhead auxiliary hon secretary, shows
that a masked ball held at the County Hotel, Holyhead, made
a proﬁt of £22 63. for branch funds. Valuable help was given
by Mr and Mrs J. Wilson.
Cleveland and Tees Side. The branch annual meeting at
Middlesbrough was addressed by Miss Naomi Jacob. Major
Pulleine, branch organizer, also spoke.
Cornwall—East Mrs S. P. Gilbert, branch hon secretary,
reports that when Mr Gilbert auctioned an autograph he
raised £7 16s. for branch funds.
Coventry and District Mrs Tremlett, auxiliary hon secretary
for Nuneaton, reports that the auxiliary had a good annual
meeting. A collection of over £7 7s. was taken for branch
funds. Mr Lenton, auxiliary president, provided tea as
usual.
Derbyshire——Derby and District Mrs Loten, branch hon
secretary, reports that Mrs Bancroft raised £6 for branch
funds by organizing a concert. Miss B. Little. Breadsall
auxiliary hon secretary, raised £16 15s. for branch funds by
organizing a whist drive.

*

V. At theﬁMidland Counties Alsatian Association‘s members’
show at The Paddocks, Grandstand Hotel. Derby. an alsa-
tian, Beider of Wilbe, owned by Mr and Mrs F. S. Redfern,
received from Mrs R. A. Loten, branch hon secretary, an
RSPCA presentation dog collar. The collar was an award for
the dog’s very gallant action in rescuing Mr and Mrs Red-
fern’s baby son when a blazing rubber groundsheet fell on
him.
*

A dance held at the Plaza Ballroom, Derby, raised with a
competition a total of £52 for branch funds. Mrs Loten,
branch hon secretary, Colonel Rawlings. branch chairman,
and all branch committee members were present. Senior
Inspector Barrett also attended.

Doncaster and District The chair was taken at the branch
annual meeting by the Mayor, Councillor Hubbard, who was
supported by the Mayoress, the branch vice-president. the
Right Hon The Viscountess Galway, the Chief Constable of
Doncaster County Borough Police, and Major Pulleine.
branch organizer. A report was submitted by Inspector
Grant. Mrs Morrison, branch chairman, spoke. (Branch
hon secretary, Mr J. J. Morrison.)

Dorset—North An original children’s play was performed
to help. branch funds at the Village Hall. West Moors. The
entertainment was organized by Mrs Baker, auxiliary hon
secretary, and the local committee. Pupils of Kempston
Preparatory School, West Moors, acted in the play, and the
author and producer was the headmistress of the school,
Mrs Adams.

Durham—Hartlepools and District The Mayor of West
Hartlepool, Councillor J. O. F. Hewlett, presented RSPCA
certiﬁcates to Inspector Spencer and Mr E. Hartley for their
courage and humanity in rescuing a pigeon trapped in a
ventilator. He also presented a letter of commendation to
Pollce Constable Teasdale who gave ﬁrst aid to an injured
horse. Present when the presentation was made at the branch
annual meetlng were Miss N. A. McAuslan, branch hon
secretary; Supt A. S. Thornton, of Castle Eden Divisional
Pohce, and Mr T. H. Tilly, branch chairman. Major Pulleine,
branch orgarnzer, gave an address on the national work of
the RSPCA.

Exeter, East and West Devon The Chief Constable of
Exeter, Mr A. E. Rowsell, opened the pet show organized
by ScoutmasterA. Beedell of the St James’ Troop, and held
under the auspices of the branch in. St Sidwell’s Methodist

 




 

 

 

 

 

72 THE ANIMAL WORLD

June 1953

 

by the hon secretary, the hon treasurer and by Senior
Inspector Morrison.

Mrs Fennell, Swaﬁ‘ ham auxiliary hon secretary, attended
when Senior Inspector Morrison spoke at the Conservative
Club. Swaffham. Mrs Fennell‘ received for branch funds a
collection of £2 133.

Mrs Bird, chairman of Downham Market auxiliary; Mrs
Sneezam, vice-chairman; Miss Laxon and Mrs Stratton (who
acted as MC), organized a whist drive in Downham Town
Hall and raised about £10 for the branch. Mrs Winlove
Smith, auxiliary hon secretary, who was donor of a prize,
was also present. Mrs Farnham also gave help.

Mrs Mudie, Hunstanton auxiliary hon secretary, attended
the Ladies’ Section of Toc H at Hunstanton when an address
was given by Senior Inspector Morrison. A collection of
£2 2s. was taken for branch funds.

Nottingham and Notts Final judging in the competition
organized at the SaVOy Cinema, Newark, by the cinema’s
Young Citizens’ Matinee Club and the local branch of the
RSPCA, was performed by Lt—Col P. T. Clifton, branch
chairman; Mr Harry White, branch hon secretary and
Council member, and Inspector Jenkins. Book prizes and
certiﬁcates were presented to children with the best-kept pets.
Scarborough The branch annual meeting was attended by
Major Pulleine, branch organizer. (Branch hon secretary,
Mr Norman Beanland.)

Sittingbourne Division Between 600 and 700 children at-
tended a ﬁlm show arranged by Mrs Draper, division hon
secretary, which was held at the Queen’s Cinema, Sitting-
bourne, by kind permission of the proprietor, Mr B.
Fortescue. Three RSPCA ﬁlms were shown. Mr H. A. Hard-
man, RSPCA schools lecturer, gave a talk on the care and
needs of pets. Mr W. R. Rees, vice-chairman of the local
committee, thanked Mr Hardman for his helpful talk. The
children were entertained by ‘Woodini’, a magician. Much
of the success of the show was due to the manager of the
cinema, Mr F. Howe, and his staff.

Southport, Birkdale and District The Mayor, Councillor
A. C. Brett, presided over the branch annual meeting, and
the Mayoress presented book prizes to 37 school children
who were successful in the essay competition. Councillor
J. J. W. Buckley, vice-chairman, pointed out that the Society
depended on the public to bring forward anything that would
help to improve the life of animals. Major Pulleine, branch
organizer, spoke on the deplorable wave of cruelty through-
out the country, and Lt-Col Coventry, Senior Inspector,
presented a report which showed that he had investigated 93
complaints of cruelty. Mr G. E. C. Eddowes was elected
chairman; Councillor J. J. W. Buckley, vice-chairman; Mr H.
Brunt, hon treasurer, and Miss Alice Richards, hon secretary.
Stockport—East Cheshire and West Derbyshire The Mayor
of Stockport, Alderman W. H. Russell, presided over the
branch annual meeting in the Stockport Town Hall. Speakers
included Mr G. R. Leah, branch chairman, and Major
Pulleine, branch organizer.

A bring-and-buy sale held at the home of Mrs Hammond,
a member of the New Mills auxiliary committee, raised
£5 1s. 3d, for branch funds. Refreshments were served and
Mrs Barlow, auxiliary hon secretary, reports that it was a
very successful evening.
Surrey—Woking and District The branch report presented
at the annual meeting, which was held at the Albion Hotel,
Woking, by Mr E. C. Richardson (branch chairman) and
Miss E. Walker (hon secretary), expressed appreciation of
the work undertaken by all auxiliary hon secretaries, collec-
tors and box holders. Inspector Beagley’sreport showed that
ﬁve cases of cruelty were reported to Headquarters.
Sussex—East, and Hastings Mrs Sletcher, branch hon
secretary, reports that the branch annual meeting was happy.
An address on the general work of the Society was given by
Mr R. Ampleford, Parliamentary organizer.

 

Warrington and District Major Gardiner, branch president
and chairman, spoke at the annual meeting of Runcorn
auxiliary. Major Pulleine, branch organlzer, gave a talk on
RSPCA work generally. .
Wiltshire—Mid Mrs Desborough Walford, Councrl mem-
ber, was the principal speaker at the branch annual meeting
held at Westbury. This was the ﬁrst time the meeting had
been held at Westbury, and Mrs Cambray, the Westbury
auxiliary hon secretary, believed that it would .do good
locally. Wing—Commander Hillier, branch organizer, who
attended, says that reports showed that the branch had had a
very successful year

Wiltshire—North Among those present at the branch an-
nual meeting held in the Town Hall, Swindon, were the
Mayor of Swindon, Alderman A. E. Long, and the Mayoress.
Branch ofﬁcers re-elected included Mrs D. Wheeler, hon
secretary, and Mr G. V. R. Jefferys, hon treasurer. A report
was submitted by Inspector Hussey and Mr Roland Ample-
ford, Parliamentary organizer, spoke on the general work
of the Society.

Yorkshire—Barnsley and District Among branch ofﬁcers
elected at the annual meeting were chairman, Mr G. Parﬁtt,
BEM; hon secretary, Mr L. H. H. Glover, ARCA; assistant
hon secretary, Mr J. Habbershon; hon treasurer, Mr T. W.
Smithson. A report submitted by Senior Inspector Tillett
showed that he had investigated 228 complaints of cruelty.

Great Dane, owned by RSPCA Life Member Mrs Nida M.
Wagner

FLAG DAY RESULTS

(We give, wherever possible, the place at which the Flag Day
was held and the names of the organizer or organizers.)

Ledbury, ,Mrs Wilce, aux hon sec, £27; Okehampton,
Mrs Weaver, aux hon sec, £84 103.; Llanelly, Mrs Paul,
aux hon sec, £50 25. 3d.; Peterborough, Miss Hartley,
branch hon gen sec, £276 115. 8d.; Broadstairs, Mrs
Crook, aux hon sec, £59 155.; Welford’on—Avon, Mrs

H. G. Setten, aux hon sec, £8 105.; Dartford, Mrs Ransom,
aux hon sec, £63 113.

RSPCA FILM NEWS

The Society’s ﬁlms were sent to the following places for
showrng recently:

.West. Norwood, Minehead, Warrington, Nuneaton,
Klrkby—in—Ashﬁeld, Newbiggin, Brislington, Pembroke
DOCK. Chepstow, Greenwich, Gateshead, Wrekenton,
EaStbOUI‘ne, Stockton'on—Tees, Tiverton, Gloucester, Can—
terbury, Ryton—on-T‘yne, Chobham, Whitley Bay, Higher
Broughton,’ Kenton, Hunstanton, Charlton, Usk, Wisbech
St Mary, Sittingbourne, Wrexham, Shildon, Thrapston.

 




 

 

@WHE‘GDRMS

Manufacturers of

UNIFORM CLOTHING

HOBSON & SONS CAPS HELMETS LEATHER
(LONDON) LTD

BELTS POUCHES etc. etc.

Gold and Silver Laces
Embroideries of every
Allenquiries to descriptlon for ALL

154-164 TOOLEY STREET UNIFORMED SERVICES

LONDON BRIDGE S.E.1 PATTERNS OF CLOTH
and ESTIMATES

Telephone: HOP 2476 (4 lines) will be forWarded free of charge
Telegrams: HOBSON, BOROH, LONDON

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

R. S.P.C.A=

 

 

 

FORM OF BEQUEST FOR NATIONAL WORK

To those benevolent individuals who may wish to become benefactors vaill to this
Society, the following form is respectfully suggested:—

‘I bequeath to the ROYAL SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS, founded
1824, for the general purposes of that Society, the sum of £ ............................................ , free
of death duty and the receipt of the Treasurer for the time being of the said Society shall
be sufﬁcient discharge for such legacy.’ (If it should be desired that the legacy should be ex;

pended on some particular phase of the Society’s work, a direction to this effect may be added to the

form of bequest.)

 

NOTE

By the Act of William IV and I Victoria, cap. 26, all Wills or Codicils must be in Writing signed by the

Testator, and attested by two witnesses in the presence of the Testator and of each other.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Printed by Shenval Press, Simson Shand Ltd, of Parl’ t S
published by Arthur w. Moss for the mm at 105 322:; 81:12:: garnet

 




