 

 

AAA

* CHRISTMAS CARDS *

-AAAAAAAAAAAA-
v'vVVVVVVYVVVv

 

5

Ref

ed are

The Christmas Cards illustrat

available in BLACK & WHITE

Actual size 4” X 3”

lOl’lS

Fly Leaf wit/2 Greetings and Illustrat

PRICE 3d. EACH.

Envelopes supplied free

2s. 9d. dozen for one dozen or over

Ref. 6

ALL CARDS SENT ASSORTED UNLESS

OTHER WISE ORDERED

 

 

 

 

 

Ref. 8

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

AAAAvAvAv‘vvvv‘AvAv'vvvvvvv'vv'vv
vv'

AAAA
vvvv

A

 

 

 

 

 




ie-co‘eq -._.

 

 

October 1954

THE ANIMAL WORLD 1n

 

the case if the sticks were used on them.

A Police Sergeant said that he saw the four
boys in a group around a swans’ nest at Cooper’s
Pit, Woolston. -

‘They beat the cob with spars until it was forced
to abandon the care of the pen, then they pushed
the pen off the nest and took the eggs.’

Although all but one of the eggs were retrieved
from various places in a hedgerow, and put back
in the nest, Inspector Taylor said that as it was
ﬁveweeks since the eggs were disturbed, it was
impossible that they would now hatch outz

Inspector Taylor said that he visited the
swans’ nest four days after the alleged incidents,
and saw that the pen had dried blood on the
crown of its head and the cob had skin missing
from the primary joint of each wing and feathers
missing from its neck.

Two wooden spars—one over six feet long—
were exhibited in court. In ﬁning each of the
boys £1 for cruelty and 105. 6d. costs the Chair—
man said: ‘We must protect these birds because
they cannot defend themselves against such

attacks.’ (A. 8358.)

 

 

Photo by courtesy of the Derby Evening Telegraph

A HAPPY MOMENT

This was a happy moment for the Magistrate who is seen on the right with RSPCA Inspector Barrett. The birds, who
are being released, were the subject of an RSPCA prosecution, and the Magistrate who was on the Bench asked that
they might be released in the grounds of her own home. The birds were redpolls, Iinnets, goldﬁnches, bramblings, and
greenﬁnches. A man had been charged previously at Alfreton Magistrates’ Court with having in his possession 24 wild
birds recently taken. There were six summonses and he pleaded ‘Guilty’ by letter and was fined a total of £5 IDs. and
ordered to pay £l3 3s. costs. A solicitor prosecuting for the RSPCA said that the defendant sent a box of 24 birds to a
dealer in London. The birds were in such a poor condition that the dealer reported the matter to the RSPCA. Three

birds died and three others had to be destroyed. (A.8l 74.)

 

The Protection of Animals (Anaesthetics)
Act, 1954

This Act, which came into force on September
1, will be welcomed by animal lovers inasmuch
as it provides a wider protection for animals
undergoing operations.

It repeals the Animals (Anaesthetics) Act,
1919, which although an admirable measure, did
not, in the opinion of many persons, go far
enough in eliminating pain in various instances.
By Section I the use of an anaesthetic in operations

. on animals is made compulsory in cases which

involve interference with sensitive tissues or bone
structure. To this general provision there are,
however, certain exceptions. The giving of in’
jections or extractions by means of a hollow
needle, for example, does not entail the use of an
anaesthetic, nor do operations included in the
First Schedule to the Act. Offences under this
Act are deemed to be offences under the Pro
tection of Animals Act, 1911, and operations
carried out improperly are to be ' regarded as
operations which are performed without due
care and humanity under the Protection of

 




p—lj—I

\v l— v‘ '—

\v

 

 

 

 

October 1954

THE ANIMAL WORLD 1'13.

 

 

Notable among the many tangible proofs of
her generosity in the animal—welfare cause is the
modern and fullyrequipped animal ambulance in
daily use on errands of mercy at the RSPCA
Animals’ Hostel at London Airport.

In a note addressed to the RSPCA, Miss Doro—
thy S. Courtauld, sister of Lady Courtauld, writes:
‘All her life she has done so much for animal
welfare, and of all the things she helped and was
interested in, I think animal welfare was nearest
her heart.’

Funeral Service

The funeral of Lady Courtauld took place at St
Catherine’s Church, Gosﬁeld, Essex. The Rev
H. Jordan ofﬁciated and the Right Rev H. A.
Wilson gave the address.

Representing the RSPCA were the Chief
Secretary and Inspector Cooper. The Chief
Secretary also represented SPANA (Society for
the Protection of Animals in North Africa).

1954 CHRISTMAS MARKET

APPEAL FOR HELPERS
As many readers will already know, the Annual

RSPCA Christmas Market will be held at the

Seymour Hall, Seymour Place, London, W1,
on November 17th and 18th, from 12 noon to
8 p.m. It has been suggested that if additional
helpers are required, some of’ our readers might
be prepared to volunteer for one or other, or
even both days. We anticipate helpers will be re
quired particularly for the secondahand clothes
section, and if, therefore, any reader has had er
perience of such sales and would care to voluna
teer, it will be appreciated if he or she would
get in touch with the Appeals Dept., RSPCA,
105 Jermyn Street, London, SW1, mentioning
on which day help can be given. It is emphasized
that it is readers with experience in this type of
sale whose services may prove of considerable
value.

FLAG DAYS IN 1955

Branch Ofﬁcials are reminded that a number of
Local Authorities consider the applications for
Street Collections (Flag Days) in the autumn of
each year. It is, therefore, suggested you should
not delay the submission of your application to
the authority concerned. If you are in any doubt
as to procedure, please do not hesitate to com;
municate with Headquarters. Headquarters is
pleased to advise on this matter when necessary.

 

RSPCA PHOTOGRAPHIC
COMPETITION

We have pleasure in announcing the results of

the RSPCA photographic competition for the

month of August:

1st Prize (£1 13.): Mrs N. Payne, 204 Stanhope
Drive, Horsforth, Leeds (Subject—‘Mother
and Son’——Cairn terrier and puppy). '

2nd Prize (153. 6d.): Mr J. W. Goddard, 81 North
Road, Brighton (Subject—Kitten’s head).

3rd Prize (103. 6d.): Mr Edgar Blackburn,
28 Brookside Road, Fulwood, Preston,
Lancs (Subject—‘Head of a Champion’—
head of a dog).

CLOSING DATE

Winners for September will be announced later.
Entries may still be submitted for October, but
the competition closes on October 31st and no
entries received after this date can be considered.

Final prizes of £3 33., £2 23. and £1 13. will be
awarded at the end of the competition.
Conditions

Entries must be unpublished and the original
work of the entrant.

The RSPCA reserves the right to publish any
prizewinning photograph without additional fee,
and to reproduce any other entry on payment of
103. 6d., the author retaining the copyright in
each case.

Prints must be size 6 in. by 8 in. or larger,

glossy, unmounted, with name and address on
the back.

A stamped addressed envelope should be sub—
mitted with each entry for its return; photographs
not accompanied by a stamped addressed enve—
lope cannot be returned.

No correspondence can be entered into on the
subject of this competition and no responsibility
accepted for photographs accidentally lost or
damaged.

Address entries to:

Photo Competition, RSPCA, 105 Jermyn
Street, London, SW1.

ANIMAL AND GENERAL KNOW—
LEDGE QUIZ

We are asked to announce that Mrs A. Popplewell, of 31
Crabtree Lane, Harpenden, Herts, is again organizing a
‘Quiz’ on behalf of the RSPCA. The ﬁrst prize is £2 23.,
second prize one guinea, and the third prize is half—a—guinea.
The quiz questions will be ready on or before October 1,
price 15., and can be obtained from Mrs Popplewell (ad‘
dress above). The quiz is described as a competition to suit
all tastes; some answers requiring only a few minutes’
thought; others—a little interesting research. The competi—
tion closes on December 1, after which date Mrs Popple—
well will be pleased to let competitors have a complete list of
the answers which is also priced at 13.

All applications for the ‘Quiz’ questions should be made
to Mrs Popplewell and Headquarters is unable either to en-
ter into correspondence in regard to the competition or to
disclose the answers to the questions.

 




 

 

 

ANIMAEH

THE

WORLD

OFFICIAL MAGAZINE OF THE RSPCA

 

 

 

 

Vol XLIX No IO

New Series

OCTOBER I 9 54.

PRICE THREEPENCE
4s. 6d. per annum. Post Paid

 

The passage of the new Slaughter of Animals

(Amendment) Act, 19 54, which comes into operation

on Ist October, 1954, leads to these thoughts on:

PROGRESS BY INQUIRY

The Slaughter of Animals (Amendment) Act,
1954, is described as ‘an Act to implement cerv
tain recommendations of the Committee of
Inquiry into the Slaughterof Horses, and other—
wise to amend the enactments relating to the
slaughter of animals’.

Held under the chairmanship of His Grace the
Duke of Northumberland, this Committee,
which presented its Report to Parliament in
August, 1953, made Recommendations sumv
marized in 23 paragraphs. At the time, the
RSPCA expressed satisfaction with the Recom’
mendations, but reiterated its regret that the
terms of reference were not wider, so that the
Committee could have dealt effectively with the
import of horses from Eire and Ulster.

With this reservation in mind, the RSPCA
continued to supply Members of Parliament with
information, and the Government has now issued
the Horses (Landing from Northern Ireland and
the Republic of Ireland) ‘Order, 1954. This
Order, made by the Minister of Agriculture and
Fisheries under the Diseases of Animals Act,
1950, requires that horses imported into Great
Britain from Northern Ireland or the Irish Rev
public must, with certain exceptions, be examined
on landing by a veterinary surgeon before being
permitted to continue their journey, and for this
purpose prohibits the landing of such horses
except at ports approved by the Minister. The
Order came into force on 25th June, 1954.

NEW ACT

Of importance to RSPCA supporters is the
fact that the Slaughter of Animals (Amendment)
Act, 1954, although said to implement the Rev
commendations of the Committee of Inquiry into
the Slaughter of Horses applies to other animals
as well as horses.

The following is a rough—and not complete——
summary of the provisions of the Act:

1. (1) A licence granted under the Food and

Drugs Act, 1938, for the use of premises for

' slaughtering horses shall be of no effect unless

I the licence expressly authorizes the use of the
premises for that purpose.

(2) Separate licences may be granted for the
use of premises, outside the curtilage, for the
conﬁnement of animals to be slaughtered in a
slaughter house or knackers’ yard.

(3) A licence as in (1) and (2) above shall not

be issued unless the local authority is satisﬁed

that the requirements of regulations governing
construction, layout and equipment of such
premises are complied with.

2. ( 1) The Minister may make such regulations as
appear to him to be expedient for securing
humane conditions and practices in the
slaughter of animals at slaughterhouses and
knackers’ yards. Such regulations may—

(a) prescribe requirements as to the construc—
tion, layout and equipment of premises
used as slaughterhouses or knackers’ yards;

(1)) prescribe conditions for the conﬁnement
and treatment of animals awaiting slaughv
ter in such premises and for the slaughter
of animals therein.

(2) Regulations made under this section may
make different provision for different kinds of
animals.

3. (l) Licences granted under section three of the
Slaughter of Animals Act, 1933 (which pro’
vides for the licensing of slaughtermen by local
authorities), shall specify—

(a) the kinds of animals that may be slaugh’
tered or stunned by the holder of the
licence; and ‘

(b) the types of instrument that may be
used by him.

(2) The foregoing subsection (b) will not affect

slaughter by Jewish or Mohammedan methods *.

(3) Licences to slaughter are granted for a year;

authority to slaughter horses applies only

within the district of the local authority by
whom it is granted.

(4) The Minister may decide qualiﬁcations
necessary for a slaughterer and may issue
regulations prohibiting the grant of licences to
persons lacking the necessary qualiﬁcations.

(5) A licence may be refused or revoked, where

‘* The RSPCA is continuing its campaign against ritual
slaughter.

 




 

October 1954

Second and concluding article:

ROUND THE ISLANDS OF ROMANCE

BY W. A. SIBLY MEMBER OF RSPCA COUNCIL.

Street
Scene

 

At some of the Islands farther north I found
little evidence of any work for animals. In St
Kitt’s, for example, there was once a Humane
Society, but this appears to have lapsed entirely,
and there is no organized body dealing with
animal welfare.

In Jamaica I was too much occupied in educae
tional and other business to make contact with
any Humane Society, but in the Bahamas I saw
much of the work. One problem there is that of
the ﬂamingos. This bird, light vermilion in colour,
is the national emblem of the Colony, and has
been accustomed to nest in many thousands on
Great Inagua and other of the Outer Islands, but
during and after the War low—ﬂying aircraft
scared the birds away. A Society has been formed
for their protection and encouragement, and has
secured widespread support.

 

'\

shadeless quarters m WhICh, beneath a semi-tropical
sun, horses spend hours of waiting at Nassau, Bahamas

THE ANIMAL WORLD 115

A paradise, but not for animals

I spent a fortnight in New Providence, at
Nassau, which is the tourist capital of these
islands, whose surrounding seas of vivid blue
give some of the world’s best bathing and sailing.
But although the Bahamas are in some respects
a paradise for human beings, they are far from
being such for animals.

The Bahamas Humane Society is an active
body, with a small animal hospital and special
quarters for dogs» and horses, and with a veter—
inary surgeon in regular attendance. I went to a
meeting of the local Committee, and Mrs Horan,
a ViceaPresident of the Society and a devoted
worker for animal welfare, showed me some of
the Island’s black spots. Chief of these is the
slaughter—house alongside the quay. Dark, inade’
quate and antiquated, it is almost in the public
gaze, and is used for the slaughter of animals

 

brOught by schooners from the Outer Islands, as

well as of those reared on New Providence.
I thought it a horrible place. I saw some large
turtles or water—tortoises lying on their backs in
the sun. ‘What are these doing here?’ I asked,
and received the reply, ‘We are just giving them
an airing.’

Not far away was the unshaded street in which
stand onevhorse carriages, waiting to convey
round the town some of the many hundreds of
American and Canadian tourists who land from
the cruising liners. The passengers are shaded by
a large red awning during their hOur’s excursion,
but not so the horses, even when they stand
waiting for hours in the semi~tropical sunshine.

Yet another of the Island’s animal problems
concerns the large number of semi—wild and un—
wanted dogs which roam the bush.

Altogether I came to the conclusion, in the

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

October1954 THE ANIMAL WORLD . ' 119
Manufacturers of

@NEFORMS

HOBSON & SONS CAPS HELMETS LEATHER
- ‘BELTS POUCHES etc. etc
(LONDON) LTD

Gold and Silver Laces

Embroideries of every
Allenquiries ,0 » } description for ALL

154-164 TOOLEY STREET UNIFORMED SERVICES

LONDON BRIDGE S.E.l- PATTERNS OF CLOTH
and ESTIMATES
Telephone: HOP 2476 (4 lines) will be forwarded free of charge
Telegrams: HOBsON, BOROH, LONDON '

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

STORE COLLECTIONS

. ‘ ~ ' h k 1 ° h
EEEDfSEOXQEE $1?ng iigiﬁilgvréikive ta C“ p ace m t e TEMPLE COX CAPTIVE

Forest Hill and Svdenham Branch. Collection at Messrs

JONES <SL HIGGINS of Peckham, organized by Mrs

John, raised £2 135. 1d. , BOLT SLAUGHTERING
West London Branch. Collection at Messrs FORTNUM & '
, MASON of Piccadilly, organized by Mrs Riseley, assisted r G U N S

by Mrs Shields, in one day realized £25 185. 8%d.
West London Branch. Collections quoted below were

 

 

organized by Mrs John, assisted by Mrs Butler: d Specially recommended and used by the RSPCA
£ 5. .
MeKsiiShEQEQEY’ Two? $5.?“ .0}? 9 9 6 THREE MODELS—ALL SILENT IN
Messrs GALERIES LAFAYETTE of Regent _ ACTION
Street (collection for ﬁve and a half days) 69 l O
CO-OPERATIVE SOCIETY of Camden 7 11 6
Town ‘ , ,
Messrs FREDERICK LAWRENCE Ltd., of 2 7 7 UNIVERSAL for 3” animals
Bayswater ‘ , - .
- Messrs PETER ROBINSON of Oxford 13 17 4 SMALLS for a” small ammals
Circus , ‘ , . .
1 Animal War Memorial Dispensary. The following collections MARK 6 for 3“ an'mals- Deslgned for heavy
were r ‘ d b M‘ E. D. Farrell, hon secretary, , , ,
with thegiiilggort bf thISSDispensary Committee: ‘ use In large AbattOlrS and Freezmg Works
£ 5. ~
l Messrs THOMAS WALLIS & Co. Ltd., of
Oxford Street (collection for four‘ and a g
- halfdays) f 148 g 1%
Messrs WM. WHITELEY Ltd., 0» Bayswater -
‘ Messrs B. B. EVANS & Co. Ltd., of Kilburn TEMPLE cox DEVELOPMENT CO. LTD

. . Z O
(collection for ﬁve and a half daYS) 68 HIGH STREET, BROMLEY’ KENT

N .B.——Headquarters will gladly forward details to any
Branches interested in this useful method of ralsing monies

for the Society.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




‘4‘“.

October 1954

buy sale, organized by the Misses Macfarlane at their home
in Canterbury, raised £31 33. 6d. for branch funds.
Kent—Dover and District Miss Swain, Kingsdown aux-
iliary hon sec, organized a successful dog show at Red
Cottage, Kingsdown, by kind permission of Mrs Spear.
Mr W. S. Lee, branch chairman, gave a speech at the opening
of the show. Mr Dance and Mrs Dance, Canterbury branch
hon sec, were present. Mrs Arnold acted as judge. Others
rendering valuable help were Mrs Swyers, Mrs Hougham,
Miss Hougham and Mr Dyke. R/Supt Webb helped.

*

At the Ash Horse Show RSPCA Merit Badges were
awarded to Mr R. J. Tomsett and Miss Dawn Day.
Loughborough and North Leicestershire Miss Harridge-
Cayless, branch hon secretary, reports that a garden fete,
organized by the branch, raised £121 83. 8d. for branch funds.
Macclesﬁeld, South-East Cheshire and Buxton A successful
garden party was organized by Mr and Mrs R. W. Parkyn,
with the help of Mr J. Hulme, in the grounds of their home,
the Manor House. The sum of £36 113. 8d. was raised for
branch funds.

Northumberland West The RSPCA stall at Tynedale Show
raised £3 6s. for branch funds.

Peterborough and District Mrs Hunt-Pain, Whittlesey aux
hon sec, reports that the Whittlesey Town Bowls Club
organized a bowls tournament and auction sale in aid of
branch funds. The sum of £27 103. was raised.

Reading with Berks, Hants and Oxon Border Miss E. M.
Wadland, branch secretary, reports that a special service
was held in St Laurence’s Church, Reading. The service
was conducted by the Vicar, the Rev G. E. Jenkins, and an
address was given by the Rev Leslie Bodham, Rector of
Peppard. A collection of £4 183. was taken for branch funds.
Stockport, East Cheshire and West Derbyshire Inspector
Coles judged entries in the Broadstone Road Primary
School, Stockport, pet show.

Suffolk—West, and Bury St Edmunds Miss Violet B. Oates
organized a pet show and raised £4 123. 3d. for branch funds.
Major Chapman, branch organizer, judged the entries.
Surrey—Kingston, Surbiton, District and South Middlesex
There was a large entry for the dog show and children’s pet
show, organized by Mrs J. C. Sainsbury, branch secretary,
at ‘Fishponds’, Ewell Road, Surbiton, and £26 was raised
for branch funds.

Surrey—Purley and District A pony show and gymkhana
organized by Mrs Hounsell, Woldingham auxiliary hon
secretary, and Miss Tuckett raised £28 for branch funds.

*

Mrs O’Gorman, branch hon organizing secretary, at-
tended an end-of—term play given by pupils of Little Heath
School. Mrs O’Gorman congratulated Miss Staunton, the
headmistress, and the children for helping the RSPCA in
this practical way, the sum of £2 103. was raised for branch
funds. Miss Staunton has organized an Animal Defender
group (under its present name and that of the Band of
Mercy and the Junior Division) for no less than twenty-one
years.

Torquay and South-East Devon Mrs Dodds, branch hon
secretary, reports that a sale of work organized by the branch
raised £89 for Torquay Clinic. _
Vale of Mowbray Mrs Morris, Thirsk aux hon sec, With
helpers, organized a garden party in the garden at the home
of Miss Warner. Chief Inspector Meara was present and
£14 13. 0—5-d. was raised for branch funds

Wakeﬁeld, Dewsbury, Pontefract, Mirﬁeld and Batley The
annual general meeting of the Mirﬁeld auxiliary was held at
Hopton Old Hall, the home of Mr and Mrs G. W. Talbot.
Miss W. M. Stancliffe, president of the auxiliary, spoke of the
good work done by Animal Defenders. The Rev G. R. Hall
expressed thanks to the speaker, Mrs Massmgham. (Report
received from Miss A. L. Duxbury, auxiliary hon secretary.)
Warwickshire—South and East Miss D. Lake, branch hon
secretary, reports that when the caravan Visited the area,
£5 23. 3d. was raised for branch funds.

THE ANIMAL WORLD 117

Westmorland Mrs Coward, Kendal auxiliary hon secretary.
reports that a collection of £63 73. 3d. was made at a cinema
by kind permission of Mr Colman, managing director.
Mr L. N. Cross, branch hon treasurer, was presented with
the money for branch funds.

Windsor, Eton, Slough, Staines and Uxbridge Miss M.
Ormrod, hon secretary Windsor auxiliary, reports that since
Christmas she has been able to place in good homes twenty-
ﬁve dogs who otherwise would have been put down. No dog
is placed before the new home has been carefully considered.
Worcestershire—East, and West Warwickshire Mrs Chris-
tie, branch hon secretary, opened her garden for the beneﬁt
of the branch and £5 123. 6d. was raised.
Worcestershire—Mid, and Worcester. Mrs Desborough
Walford, Council member, addressed members at the branch
annual meeting in Worcester. The report of Miss Thornton,
branch hon secretary, showed a year of steady progress, and
the hon treasurer, Mr H. L. Burniston, announced a balance
in hand of £191 133.

Wing Commander Hillier, branch organizer, spoke on the
general work and reports submitted by Senior Inspector
Rose showed that he had investigated 151 complaints of
cruelty. Inspector Horwill had investigated forty-three
complaints.

Worcestershire—West, and Malvern A total of £185 53. 9d.
was raised at Tewkesbury summer fair organized by Mrs
Salmon, Tewkesbury auxiliary hon secretary. The fair was
opened by Miss Ellis Powell (Mrs Dale, of Mrs Dale’s
Diary). Among those who attended the fair, held in the
Town Hall, at Tewkesbury, were: Mrs Desborough Walford,
Council member, Mrs Harrison, branch hon secretary,
Miss E. Tait, branch hon treasurer, Wing-Commander
Hillier and Reg/ Supt Best.

Yorkshire—Harrogate and District Senior Inspector Jack-
son addressed students on ‘Cruelty to Animals’ at the Police
College, Pannal Ash. He also judged entries in the pet show
at Birstwith.

Yorkshire—York and District An afternoon tea party (with
a bring-and-buy stall and other attractions) was held by the
Elvington auxiliary in the garden at Sunnymead, when
£28 23. 8d. was raised for branch funds. Chief Inspector
Buckland judged the entries in a children’s pet show. Mrs
H. E. Harrowell, of York, presented the prizes.

HOUSE—TO—HOUSE

(We give, wherever possible, the place where the collection was
organized and the name of the organizer or organizers.)
Bengeo, Hertfordshire East, Miss R. Longland, aux hon
sec, £11 175. 5d.; Kirkby—in—Ashﬁeld, Mrs Devonshire, aux
hon sec, £93 5s.; Sleaford, Lincs South, and Grantham,
Miss N. Pim, branch co hon sec, £16 23. 6d.; Buckfastleigh,
Torquay and SE Devon, Mrs Sharrnan, aux co hon sec,
£17 183.; Suffolk East and Ipswich, Mrs Crawford, branch
hon sec, £107 143. 8d.; Long and Little Wittenham, Oxford,
Mrs Hewett, aux hon sec, £10 145. 7d.; Moulton, Lincs
South, Mrs Hardy, aux hon sec, £17 ls. 8d.; Rothwell, Leeds
Branch, Mrs Harrison, £4 95. 6d.; Burton—on—Trent, Mrs
Bird, branch hon sec, £159 55. 2d.; Edgware, Finchley
Branch, Mrs Anderson, £3 15. 3d.; Maltby, Rotherham and
District Branch, Mrs Scott, aux hon sec, £29 145. 8d.

FLAG DAYS

(We give, wherever possible, the place where the collection was
organized and the name of the organizer or organizers.)
Barton—on—Humber, Mrs B. F. Vanderstock, aux hon sec,

£41 195. 4d.; Exeter, Miss A. M. Bullen, asst sec,

£286 195. 10d.; Clovelly, Mrs Hawkins—Jones, £25 153. 6d.;
Bideford, Miss M. Capper, aux hon sec, £35 55. 2d.;
Ulverston, Mr G. Calderbank, act branch hon sec,
£61 53. 4d.; Rhondda, Miss J. Maddy, aux hon sec,
£112 165. 7d.; Newton—le—Willows, Mrs Beaman, aux hOn
sec, £39 45. 6d.; Peasemore, Miss Strange Brown, aux hon
sec, £1 105. 1d.; Stroud, Mrs E. M. Porri, branch hon sec,
£168 03. 10d.; Helston, Mrs E. Dransﬁeld, aux hon sec, £58;

 




A-v_. -v‘a’mv ~_——A—V

i

 

 

—»4-—...—-.- >—...

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

- . “-7- an, o. 4. 7 r. e V ‘
f7 ' \ , a 1
, , 1'
.. ‘\?‘
. /
t .
i

 

     

1.»

Photo by courtesy of the Daily Herald

Zena, on the right, has been rewarded for bravery by the RSPCA, and she has received an
inscribed collar. With her is her own puppy, Silva, whose life she saved. (See story inside this cover)

.N

-'s

 

 

 

 

   

“1""
,., _
3»

 

. ..,,..,.‘.‘u..‘ u... .r hm—yv-
, n a . n
' i

\ _ l" V
' ./.¢-- _.‘
s
l
i

i
\
,
(a, .
\._», :-
i
_ L l' . 4
,\ K J
[V
i “i
\ .
'D
. l " .
i I
\ ‘ _
\‘ :1 ’
J3
\

 

-
- ..._ ‘r‘t'
\
l
‘i
‘u
.
‘.
\
f
i
l
'.
.
.
\
‘ .
‘
1
,
i
. r
i
L i
A
i
I
,‘r 1
1
\ AJ 4“ ‘i
,1 ‘I '
w
x

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

ROYAL SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS
Founded 1824 Headquarters: 105 Jermyn Street, London, S.W.1

 

PATRONS

HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN
HER MAJESTY QUEEN ELIZABETH, THE QUEEN MOTHER
HER ROYAL HIGHNESS PRINCESS ALICE COUNTESS OF ATH LONE
HER ROYAL HIGHNESS PRINCESS ARTHUR OF CONNAUUHT

 

VICE-PRESIDENTS
SIR MALCOLM SARGENT, HON LLD, D Mus, FRCM, I~'RSA

THE EARL OF SHAFTESBURY, KP, PC COLONEL R. M. POWELL, |)S()

THE COUNCIL (1952-1953)

Chairman: THE RT HON LORD MERTHYR, DL, JP
Vice-Chairman: *MRS WALLIS POWER, JP

 

 

AGIUS, THE REV DOM. AMBROSE, 058, MA FREEMAN, PETER, ESQ, MP . POM-LL, (OI. R. 51.. OSO
*ALLIBERT, MRS GASKOIN, C. J. 3., ESQ, MA RAI'I'RAY, R. l-‘., ISO. MA. l’ll.l)
*ALSOP, ALDERMAN A. J., FRCA, PCIs, JP GREENWOOD, ANTHONY, ESQ, MA, MP *Rll-.(‘K. H. 11.. ISO
BERTIE OF THAME, THE RT HON THE VISCOUNTESS *HARVEY, MRS J. w., MA SHAI-‘l'ESBLIRY. IIII RI HO\ IIII ('Hl‘\ l I-SS ()l-'
BRANSOM, MISS L. G., FRSA *HOCKIN, C. OWEN, ESQ ‘ Slllll-‘Y. w. A.. ISO. \1A. Jl’
BYWATER, H. E., ESQ, MRCVS HOGG, s. R., ESQ, Dso, MC SNHI llll- RI V I’RI Bl-NDARY I . J. IL. Mill, IT), JP
*COOPER, ALDERMAN J. D., JP *HUNTER, MISS SOMI- RS. I'HI» RI HON LORI)
DAWES, CAPTAIN H. w., CBE, MRCVS LEE, MRS I *I'All', MRS, BA
DORCHESTER, LT-COL THE RT HON LORD, OBE, JP LOCKWOOD, LT-COL J. c., JP, TD, MP ‘ 'l'Ul-Nl-.l.l.. l.ll"l’l-(‘()M.\1..\\l)l- R R. R.. MN. RN
*DOWDELL, MRS LONGMAN, MRS w. : *WAI l-'()Rl), MRS OISROROI‘OH
ESTCOURT-OSWALD, MISS AGNES, MB (LOND), DPH MOORE, LT-COL SIR THOMAS, CBE, MP I *WHII'I‘. HARRY. l-SQ.. It‘A
(CANTAB), DOMs *PARKET, MAURICE 0., ESQ, MISAC *WINt'HIaSI'I-R. I-. J.. ISO. HIS. ISS
*EVANS, MRS DAVID, BA POULETT. THE RT HON THE EARL

* Denotes Branch Representative

 

OFFICE BEARERS APPOINTED BY THE COUNCIL

Hon Treasurer——LT-COL J. C. LOCKWOOD, JP, TD, MP
Deputy Hon Treasurer—HARRY WHITE, ESQ, FCA
Hon Medical Ofﬁcer—A. N. CRAWFORD, ESQ, FRCSI
Bankers—MESSRS COUTTS AND CO, STRAND, LONDON

Chief Secretary-ARTHUR w. MOSS. ISO. MIII. .v\('l\'

Assistant Secretary—I). A. L. t'AMM. I-SO. BA

Legal Secretary—J. HALL, I-iSQ

Chief Veterinary Ofﬁcer—MAJOR R. (‘. (I. HANt‘Ot'R. IIS‘x, MRC‘VS
Auditors—MESSRS VINEY, PRICE AND GOODYEAR. CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS

Telegrams—WHITEHALL 7 177

USED 8iTRllSTED THE WORl£DOVR

Telephone leIitehall 7|77

COVER PICTURE

Three—year—old Zena was out walking with her pup Silva.
Like all spaniels, Silva loved water, and when she saw the
pond near the timber yard she dived in. Then she found
that she could not get back to the water’s edge.

Zena walked along a piece of ﬂoating timber until she
reached Silva, then started to pull her to safety by the ear.
She fell into the water herself and towed Silva with her as
she swam. But the puppy’s weight was tOO much for Zena.

She barked to attract attention, and a man pulled Silva
to safety.

LARGE BEGGING DOG BOX

 
   

 
 

COLLECTIONS
\ The following successful collections have been recently
x _ reported :
‘\ y , CLOVELLY: Miss Capper writes that the box collected
k ,. . £23 93. 9%(1. in less than a fortnight.

  

PERRANPORTH: Mrs Peebles states that the box was

IM PlE Q. .l y . . placed in the middle of July and by the middle of August
sAF E _‘ _~_L , almost £20 had been raised.
. . ' , GREAT YARMOUTH: Miss Castle mentions that a box in a
E @ Store at Great Yarmouth has collected £58 195. 7d. in nine—
“E m @ SH X teen months. Another large begging dog box on the Marine
_ Parade collected £11 85. 6d. in two weeks. A third large
C APTIVE BOLT PISTOL :8: $3111 htotel raiﬁedh£6 31$. lclid. in twouweeks. Another
15 ype, w 1c is ace in a sma sho ,brin s in
FOR ALL ANIMALS about £7 annually. During She summer months, E1081: 0% the
”a”: ”o suetvoKE ”D . BIRMINGHAM . 6 . ”6”“ boxes are placed in the Amusements Parks but are found
0 homes during the Winter, where they continue to collect
5465 a few shillings a week.

      

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

110 THE ANIMAL WORLD

October 1954

 

 

an applicant or holder has failed to comply
with regulations or has been convicted of an
offence under (among other things) the Pro’
tection of Animals Act, 1911, or any order
made under section twenty of the Diseases of
Animals Act, 1950, regulating the transport of
animals.

4. (1) Subsection (1) of section one of the
Slaughter of Animals Act, 1933 (which pro
vides that animals to which that section ap~
plies, when slaughtered in slaughterhouses and
knackers’ yards, shall be instantaneously
slaughtered or instantaneously stunned and

 

 

rendered instantaneously insensible until death
supervenes), shall apply throughout England
and Wales to all kinds of animals.
(2) The proviso modifying the subsection in its
application to the slaughter of pigs in premises
where electrical energy is not ayailable shall
cease to have effect.

5. The maximum penalty for infringements is £50

and/or three months' imprisonment; the court .

may also cancel the licence.

(It is gratifying that the old maximum, as laid
down in the Slaughter of Animals Act, 1933, is
increased under this measure.)

 

A

 

 

 

       

 

mm“ Miﬁfg g r

DEAD BIRDS IN PIGEON LOFT

Through a pigeon loft window, Inspector J. H.
Coles saw a considerable number of pigeons in a
state of distress. On the ﬂoor, opposite the win—
dow, three pigeons, close together, were lying
dead. Two were standing on them—still alive,
but, in the Inspector’s opinion, ‘going to die.’
Other dead pigeons were lying in the nest box.

A padlock had to be forced before entry could
be obtained to the loft. The ﬁrst thing the Insper
tor did, when inside, was to lift from a tin a dead
pigeon wedged in it. The bird had evidently
become wedged when seeking food in the tin.

Inspector Coles immediately supplied water
(he found the container dry); in their eagerness
to drink the birds stood on one another. Food
he provided was eaten ravenously.

In all, 14 birds were found dead; two had to
be destroyed. Of practically all these birds, a
veterinary surgeon, who performed a post.
mortem examination reported: ‘CrOp empty’.
Their condition was either ‘poor’ or ‘emaciated.’

These facts came to light when the RSPCA
brought the owner before the Magistrates at Ash—
ford on a charge of omitting to give care and
attention to the pigeons when in a suffering state.

Found guilty of the offence, the defendant wa
sent to prison for a month. (A.8172.) ‘

TORE HEAD, LEGS AND \VINGS OFF
A BIRD

Two boys, alleged to have pulled the head, wings
and legs Off a wild bird. were each fined 405., with.
two guineas costs, at Hanley Juvenile Court by
the Potteries Stipendiary lvlagistrate. He ordered
that their names should be published.

They were accused of unlawfully causing unv
necessary suffering to a wild bird by unreasonably
killing it in an improper manner. They admitted
the offence.

The first boy admitted that he and ‘Billy’ went
down to ‘The Moss’. ‘Billy’ threw a brick at a
small brown bird on a branch. \thn it fell to the
ground they threw it into the air again, then put
it on the ground and threw a brick at it. ‘Billy’
pulled a wing and leg off and then pulled the
bird’s head off with his hands. When they saw
some friends coming they buried the bird.

The other boy stated that they threw the bird
into the air to see if it would fly. ‘Then we
put it into a hole and threw bricks at it. We got
hold of a wing and leg each and pulled them Off.
The bird was alive when I pulled its head off,’ the
second boy’s statement continued.

Warned

The Stipendiary Magistrate said he had cOnv
sidered sending the ﬁrst boy to an apprOVCd
school, but he did not see why he should put an
1mposition on the taxpayer.

He warned the second boy that if he came
before him again he would be sent to an approve
school and an order would be made for his
parents to contribute to his upkeep. (A8453;
Senior Inspector Tuohy.)

BOYS BEAT SWANS

After pleading not guilty to two charges Of
causmg cruelty“ to swans by beating them With
stlcks and stealing their eggs four boys, aged
16, 15, 13 and 11, were told by the Chairman
of a Warrington County Juvenile Court that
they Would probably realize the seriousness O

 

 




 

(/21 12

Animals Act, 1911, and are subject to the penal’

ties imposed by that Act.

The First Schedule referred to above contains

a list of excepted operations and these include:

1. Any experiment duly authorized under the
Cruelty to Animals Act, 1876.

Z. The rendering in emergency of ﬁrst—aid for the
purpose of saving life or relieving pain.

3. The docking of the tail of a dog before its
eyes are open.

4. The amputation of the dew claws of a dog
before its eyes are open.

5. The castration of any male dog before it has
reached the age of three months or any male
cat before it has reached the age of six months.

6. The castration of a male horse, ass or mule,
bull or sheep, before the age of twelve months,
of a pig before seven months and a goat before
three months.

In addition certain minor operations are perv
mitted without the use of an anaesthetic.

A. G. J.
OBITUARY

With sincere regret, we report the following
deaths: Miss D. Stephens, former hon secretary
of Ferryside Auxiliary; Her Grace Winifred
Duchess of Portland, Vice—President of the
RSPCA and President of Grimsby, Doncaster
and Shefﬁeld Branches; Miss M. Rogers, hon
secretary Broad Haven Auxiliary; Lady Courtauld,
hon secretary Essex North West Branch and
former member of RSPCA Council (193 14944);
Mrs M. E. Warneford, former hon secretary and
VicevPresident of Torquay Branch; The Rt Hon
The Viscount Bertie of Thame, a supporter.

A DOUBLE LOSS
Winifred, Duchess of Portland

In the deaths of Winifred, Duchess of Portland,
and Lady Courtauld, the animal welfare mover
ment has suffered a serious loss.

Writing of Winifred, Duchess of Portland,
who, at the time of her death, was a Vice—Presiv
dent of the RSPCA, Mrs Wallis Power (Vice
Chairman of the RSPCA Council) says: ‘As
President for many years of the RSPCA Ladies’
Committee, Her Grace did much to build up the
Society’s educational work. First of all her en—
deavours were directed to the organization of the
old Bands of Mercy of the Victorian era and later
to the transference of these activities into the
postwar Animal Defenders Corps. Her unique
knowledge of horses was shown in her constant
labours in the past to end the decrepit horse
trafﬁc to the Continent and just recently in the
raising of a fund, through the columns of The
Times, to bring about improvement in the treat—
ment of horses in Nigeria.

THE ANIMAL WORLD

October 1954

 

 

‘Always a woman of great beauty, she showed,
by wearing hats trimmed with feathers taken from
the domestic fowls of Welbeck, that for personal
adornment such feathers could be just as be.
coming as those from the osprey or bird of
paradise, without any question of despoliation
or suffering being involved.

‘In her ninetyaﬁrSt year, Her Grace complained
to RSPCA Headquarters that she was not being
worked hard enough! Since her early days as a
campaigner for animal welfare, many humane
laws have been placed upon the British Statute
Book. As a result of this and of the change of
heart she has helped to bring about in the public
by her warm advocacy of animal rights and by
her inspiring example, countless animals today
are enjoying the happier life she,had always
prayed they should have. .

‘She walks in beauty like the night
Of cloudless climes and starry skies. . . .’

Memorial Services

The funeral service was private, but memorial
services were held both in Nottingham and in
London.

At St Mary’s Church, Nottingham, Mr Harry
White, deputy hon treasurer of the RSPCA,
represented the RSPCA. Six Inspectors attended
in uniform; this party was led by Chief Inspector
Ryan.

In his appreciation, the Assistant Bishop of
Southwell, the Rt Rev A. M. Gelsthorpe, said
of the Duchess: ‘To her, Christianity was an
adventure, launching out into all kinds of enter«
prises for men and women, for the healthy and
for the sick, for children, for animals, for birds.’

The service was conducted by Canon R. H.
Hawkins and the Rev W. E. A. Lound, Vicar of

Cuckney and chaplain to the Duke, read the
lesson.

London Service

At the London memorial service, held at St
Peter’s Church, Eaton Square, Queen Elizabeth
the Queen Mother was represented by Major
Sir Arthur Penn.

The Rev W. A. Simmonds ofﬁciated.

Representing the RSPCA were the Chief
Secretary and a uniformed party, comprising
Inspectors, Patrol Ofﬁcers, and two members of

Headquarters Clinics Staff in charge of Chief
Inspector Stephens.

Lady Courtauld

Lady Courtauld was a member of the RSPCA
Council from 1941 to 1944 and was honorary
secretary of the Essex—North’West Branch from
1938 until the date of her death.

 

 

 




114 THE ANIMAL WORLD October1954

 

THE RSPCA AT WORK

AUGUST 1954 HEADQUARTERS CLINICS

RSPCA INSPECTORS No. of animals handled: ‘
Cats, 5,681 Dogs, 4,834 Miscellaneous, 508 Total, 11,023

. . , . No. 0 animals iven emer enc ‘rst—aid: 2,485
1,949 Complaints of cruelty investigated. f g g y ﬁ

71 Offenders ﬁned.
51 Persons guilty of minor acts of cruelty cautioned in writing. PUTNEY CONVALESCENT WARD

662 Registered cautions were administered by Inspectors. No. of animals handled:

 

Cats, 105 Dogs, 46 Miscellaneous, 2 Total, 153
CLASSIFICATION OF CONVICTIONS ,

HORSES—Working in an unﬁt state .. 2
CATTLE—-Neglecting, shooting and wounding 2 NIGHT STAFF
SHEEP—Neglecting, travelling when in an unﬁt state 5 N 0' of calls receive d: 1992
PIG—Conveying by road when in an unﬁt state 1 Miles covered by ambulance in respect of urgent calls: 2,244
DOGS—Neglecting, neglecting after injuring with motor N o. of animals rescued: 3

vehicle, killing in an improper manner, shooting No 0 f animals treated b ) y. ‘ , .,, . 287

and wounding, striking with implement 19 ' y ULCCanMy surgeon.
CATS—Neglecting, killing in improper manner, injuring

with steel—tooth trap, etc. 15 NORTH WALES [INIT
BOWLS—Neglecting, injuring with stick 2
CHICKS—Exposing for sale when in an unﬁt state 1 First—aid cases:
GEESE—Conveying in improper receptacle 1 Cats, 24 Dogs, 48 Miscellaneous, 1 Total, 73
WILD BIRDS—Throwing to ground, killing in improper No. of animals handled by Unit:

manner 5 Cats, 131 Dogs, 46 Miscellaneous, 74 Total, 251
RABBITS—Injmmg With 1.7151571177187115 1 No. of miles covered by Unit during month: 2,105
EERRETS—Neglecting 1 '
OFFENCES UNDER THE PROTECTION OF BIRDS ACT, 1925: AWARDS

Conﬁning in small cage . . . 1

Using a decoy bird 1 Current awards at present under review.

OFFENCES UNDER THE PROTECTION OF BIRDS ACT, 1933:

Selling other than a close—ringed specimen bred RECORDS FOR 1953

in captivity 5 COMPLAINTS 27,680
Offering for sale other than a close’ringed speci— , CONVICTIONS 864
men bred in captivity . . .. . . . 2

CAUTIONS 10,142

OFFENCES UNDER THE WILD BIRDS PROTECTION ACTS:

HEAD UARTERS CLIN
Being in possession of recently taken birds 1 Q 1C8

No. of animals handled: 155,236

VARIOUS OEEENCES:

Steelvtooth traps—set in open 2 NIGHT STAFF

Permitting in an offence . . . . 1 N 0' of calls: 20:440
3

Aiding and abetting in offences

 

NORTH WALES UNIT

TOTAL NUMBER OF CONVICTIONS 71 No. of animals handled: 2,797
AWARDS
During AUGUST, 1954, Magistrates, at the request of the Margaret Wheatley CTOSS 1
RSPCA, disqualiﬁed TEN persons from owning a dog or holding Silver Medals 0
a dog licence. Disqualiﬁcations were as follows: Bars to Silver Medals 2
13707116 Medals 58
TWO for 12 months; TWO for two years; FIVE for ﬁve years; Bars to Bronze Medals 10

ONE for life. Merit Certiﬁcates 121

 




 

,. “Vulgam. .

116 THE ANIMAL WORLD

October 1954

 

 

West Indies and the Bahamas as elsewhere in my
travels, that most men are indifferent if not
callous where animals are concerned, and that the
price of mercy is unceasing vigilance on the part
of the few who champion their claims and cause.

I

'The photographs were taken by the
Author

 

The picture on the right shows: Ambulance and Dogs’
Quarters at the Headquarters of the Bahamas Humane
Society

 

 

BRANCH NEWS

Berkshire—Newbury and District Mrs Waites, branch hon
secretary, organized a pet show, held at Elmore House by
the kindness of Mrs Rose. The show was opened by Lady
Dempsey and judges were Mr Crawshaw, Mrs Crawshaw,
Mrs Hurt and Miss Keevil. Help was given by Inspector
Tynan and Mr C. R. Davies, branch organizer, attended.
The approximate sum of £32 was raised for branch funds.

Miss Ingledew organized a garden f éte in the garden of her
home and raised £51 for branch funds.
Carmarthenshire Mr A. C. Mitchell, branch hon secretary,
reports that the branch ran a demonstration tent at the
United Counties Agricultural Show at Carmarthen. Over
£51 was raised for branch funds. ,
Chatham Division The annual general meeting was held in
the Mayor’s Parlour, Town Hall, Chatham, when the Mayor,
Alderman A. S. Price, JP, who is both Division chairman
and president, presided. Ofﬁcers and committee members
were re-elected. Mrs M. Beaumont gave an address on the
work of the Society. (Mrs Barrett, Division hon sec, sub-
mitted this report.)
Cornwall—Mid Mrs Peebles, branch hon secretary, reports
that Perranporth Animal Defenders won third prize in the
local carnival.
Cumberland—North and East Mrs Ashby, Skelton aux hon
sec, with helpers, organized a garden f éte in the grounds of
Brackenburgh School, Calthwaite. The f éte was opened by
Miss J. Westoll, Longtown aux hon sec.

Senior Inspector Brown judged entries in the dog show.
The sum of £54 11s. 6d. was raised for branch funds.

‘A'

The branch organized a f éte at Corby Castle, by kind per-
mission of Lieut-Colonel H. Levin, branch hon secretary,
and Mrs Levin. The f éte was well supported and over £50
was raised for branch funds.

Dorset—North East Orchard School held an entertainment
and sale in aid of the RSPCA. Mrs M. K. Goodrum, Shaftes-
bury auxiliary hon secretary, was presented with £11 53. for
branch funds.

Durham—Hartlepools and District Miss McAuslan, branch
hon secretary, presented Zena, a pedigree spaniel, with an
RSPCA inscribed collar for her successful effort in saving
her puppy (Silva) from drowning. The presentation was
made at the West Hartlepool Show held at the Ward Jackson

Park.
Essex—Mid-Brentwood, Chelmsford, Romford and District
Mrs Donovan, branch hon sec, reports: Mrs Lewis opened

her garden to the public in aid of the RSPCA and raised £8
for branch funds.

Essex—South, Southend and District At the branch annual
meeting Major Chapman spoke on the work of the Society.
The number attending was greater than in previous years.
(Miss D. Sindall, Westcliﬁ" North aux hon sec, submitted
this report.)

Mrs Underhill, Canvey Island auxiliary hon secretary,
reports that the RSPCA tableau won third prize in a local show.

* _
Exeter, East and West Devon At the Animal Defenders
pet show, Miss P. M. Lane, group leader, thanked Mrs Eden
Phillpotts, branch chairman, for attending and Inspector
Pickett and Mr Brooking for acting as judges.

Mrs Eden Phillpotts spoke to those present on the work

of the RSPCA. She was presented with a bouquet by Trevor
Sprague. Later she presented prizes.
Gloucestershire—Mid Mr W. A. Sibly, Council member,
addressing the branch annual meeting in the Church Insti—
tute, Stroud, spoke of the satisfaction felt at Headquarters
at the growing activity of the branch under the direction of
the honorary secretary, Mrs Edith M. Porri, and the branch
committee. The vice-chairman, Mr S. Hill, who presided,
regretted the absence of the chairman, Mr T. E. Sanders,
who was unable to attend. Illness compelled Mr Sanders to
relinquish his post. Senior Inspector Dadswell said that during
the year he had investigated 265 complaints of cruelty to
animals.

Officers elected were: president, Sir Lionel Darrell; chair-
man, Mr S. Hill; Vice-chairman, Mrs R. C. Brumwell; hon
secretary, Mrs E. M. Porri; assistant hon secretary, Mrs
Baldwin; hon treasurer, Mr A. G. Porri. The committee
were re-elected en bloc.

Great Yarmouth and District The annual horse parade was
organized by the branch and the Mayor of Yarmouth, Mr
T. Totton, distributed the prizes. Mr B. Banham (Norwich)
and Mr O. V. Gunning (Acle) were the judges. The marshal-
ling was carried out by Chief Inspector Tye. (Report from
Miss Muriel Castle, Branch co hon secretary.)
Kent—Ashford and District Lady Ritchie, branch chairman,
introduced Mr H. L. Gibbs, chairman of the Ashford
Urban District Council, who officially opened the new branch
clinic at Ashford. Mr Gibbs spoke of the clinic as another
landmark in the branch’s progress and he saw this progress
as proof of the tremendous enthusiasm and hard work put
in by Lady Ritchie and Mr H. A. Crothall, branch hon secre-
tary, among others.

Kent—Canterbury and District Miss M. Michell, Herne
Bay aux. hon sec, reports that a bazaar raised £62 16s. for
branch funds.

Mrs Dance, branch hon secretary, reports: A bring-and-




 

 

 

 

118 _ THE ANIMAL WORLD

October 1954

 

 

' Farnham Royal, Mrs Riley, aux hon sec, £9 95. 861.; Wrays—
bury, Mrs Batham, aux hon sec, £17 75. 661.; Colnbrook,
Mrs Edwards, aux hon sec, £14 55.; Iver, Mrs Caws,
£12 125. 1161.; Datchet, £13 65. 961. and Eton, £23 115. 861.,
Mrs Tait, br hon sec and Council member; Fleet & Crookv
ham, Mrs M. Harbord, aux hon sec, £83 155. 361.; Penmaen'
maw, Mrs Furse, join br hon sec, £28; Horam, Mrs R.
Watson, aux hon sec, £24 165. 9%d.; Barrow—in—Furness, Mr
R. Hampson, aux hon sec, £156 85. 261.; Forest of Dean,
Mrs G. C. Demel, div hon sec, £106 155. 361.; Prestatyn,
Mrs Ernest Black, branch hon sec, £52 105. 561.; Port
Talbot, Miss E. Rees, branch hon sec, £147 85. O%d.;
Caerau, Mrs Hunt, aux hon sec, £4 05. 261.; Bryn, Mrs A. J.
Canton, aux hon sec, £4 25. 961.; Blaengwynﬁ, Mrs Morris,
aux hon sec, £1 115. 661.; Carmarthenshire, Mr A. C.
Mitchell, branch hon sec, £203 195. 1161.; Bedlington,
Mr C. R. Beaumont, aux hon sec, £43; Whitley Bay,
Mrs D. Macklin, aux hon sec, £45; Newcastle—upon—
Tyne, Mr A. L. Wilson, branch sec, £420; Blackpool, Mrs
A. Jones, branch hon sec, £200 05. 6d.; Moreton—in—Marsh,
Mrs Baldwin, co aux hon sec, £17 175. 661.; Hampshire,
New Forest branch, Mrs Alexander, branch hon sec,
£74 85. 161.; Ross—on—Wye, Mrs V. A. Thomson, co aux
hon sec, £42 185. 4d.; Fordingbridge, Miss Wormell and
Miss Rosslyn—Stuart, co branch hon secs, £17 45. 4%61.;
Lynton and Lynmouth, Mrs Witney Jones, co aux hon sec,
£30 75. 261.; Saltburn and Marske, Mrs J. H. Hart, branch
hon sec, £58 65.; Barnsley, approx £100; Caernarvonshire,
Llandudno branch, Miss M. Unwin, branch hon sec,
£273 145. 261.; Budleigh Salterton, Dr H. B. Walters, aux
hon sec, £37 05. 361.; Reading (Berks County), Miss E. M.
Wadland, branch sec, £326 25. 761.; Newby Bridge and
Lake Side, Mrs Chamley, £19 195. 5d.; Cartmel, Mr G.
Calderbank, act branch hon sec, £20 135. 1161.; Coniston,
Mrs Wilcox, aux hon sec, £17 45.; Seaton and Beer, Miss
N. Gould, aux hon sec, £30 35. 461.; Golborne, Mrs
Naylor, £17 125. 3d.; Ashington (Northumberland), Mr
J. A. Hogg, aux hon sec, £78 75. 11d.; Scunthorpe, Mrs M.
Yare, aux hon sec, £77; Truro, Miss D. Taylor, aux hon
sec, £103 175. 561.; Great Yarmouth, Miss M. Castle, branch
hon sec, £534 45.; Bettws—y—Coed, Miss M. Campion, aux
hon sec, £29 45. 11d.; Suffolk, East Coast Constable branch
(County collection), Miss Hay, £84 95. 11d.; Oswestry,
Mr T. Jones, aux hon sec, £87 85. 1161.;-St Helens, Lancs,
Mr F. Sims, £213 75. 561.; Settle, Mr V. E. Pitts, aux
hon sec, £22 165. 9d.; Clitheroe, Mr H. Diplock, aux
hon sec, £25 15. 1061.; Buxton, Miss B. M. Satterthwaite,
aux hon sec, £164. 105. 4d.; Lytham, Miss D. Lord,
aux hon sec, £62 25, 4d.; Pontypool and Abersychan,
Miss J. Holmes, aux hon sec, £65 135.; Ringwood, Mrs
Pelling, aux co hon sec, £55 75. 861.; Llanaber, Miss W.
Ragge, aux hon sec, £6 125. 10%d.; Llanbedr, Miss Cooke,
£4 25. 101-61.; Harlech, Mrs L. Lloyd, aux hon sec,
£30 85.; Barmouth, Mrs Mather, branch hon sec,
£46 145. 10%d.; Bridgwater, Mrs Scott, aux hon sec,
£125 5115. 5d.; Watchet, Mrs E. ,S. Hayman, aux hon sec,
£23 1 5.

 

     
    
      

FLAG DAY
GOODS

Celluloid Buttons

LIST ON APPLICATION

THE UNIVERSAL BUTTON CO. LTD.
1-9 Birkbeek Street, Bethnal Green, LONDON, E.2

Telephone: BIShopsgate 5750 Telegrams: ‘Unibutco Edo’

 

 

LONDON JOINT ANIMAL FLAG DAY

MAY 4, 1954
The RSPCA total collection was £12,333 115. 961.
The following is a list of the gross collections made by
Branches and Clinics which took part in this effort:

Branch or Clinic £ 5. d.
Balham and Tooting 326 8 0
Overseas Fund (per Raynes Park Aux) 30 0 O
Barnet 173 4 7
Bromley 318 17 7
Chiswick 18316 5
Croydon 2711211
Crystal Palace 197 16 1
Ealing 285 5 10
Enfield 564 1 6
Essex SW 247 19 6
North Chingford Clinic ' 35 17 5
Finchley 225 1 1
Forest Hill and Sydenham 94 8 1
Herts—West 58 10 2
Highgate 24417 6
KentNW 246 310
LondonEast 20 2 7
LondonNE 249 5 7
London SE 2161411
Eltham Clinic 45 15 10
Middlesex NW 503 1 9
Richmond 135 19 2
Streatham, Brixton and Clapham 303 15 2
Surrey, Epsom... 328 12 11
Surrey, Kingston 254 11 6
Surrey, Purley 202 14 3
Surrey, Sutton 214 2 4
WestLondon... 540 8 4
Wimbledon and District 278 13 6
Windsor 7612 1
West Drayton Auxiliary 107 17 8
Headquarters . . 2,158 4 8
*Miscellaneous 186 10 6
Animal Aid and Welfare Club 216 11 9
Animal Rescue League 245 10 5
Animal War Memorial Dispensary 709 17 11
Balham Clinic - 75 10 1
Barnes Clinic 29 16 11
Bermondsey Clinic 87 2 8
BirdFund 16912 2
Bow Clinic 92 2 8
Bethnal Green Clinic 55 2 2
Brixton Clinic... 84 9 0
Ealing and Hanwell Shelter 128 0 8
Edmonton Clinic 91 9 8
Lee Clinic 140 13 0
Mayhew Home 106 3 4
Putney Clinic 374 15 10
Sister Mabel’s Dispensary 66 1 0
St John Partridge Memorial Clinic 227 3 8
South Harrow Clinic 106 5 7

* Collections made on behalf of provincial Branche.
who sent sellers especially for the occasion.

ESSEX JOINT ANIMAL
FLAG DAY

The sum collected on Essex Joint Animal Flag Day was
£1,419 175. 961.; the following are the Branch collections:

J)

£ 5. Cl.
Cambridgeshire—Saffron Walden 24 16
Essex—Colchester and District 440 Z 10
Essex—Mid, Brentwood, Chelmsford and
District .. 489 7 1
Essex—North West 158 10 2
Essex—South, Southend and District 182 1 11
Essex—South West 56 ' 10 O
Herts—East 8 10 4

Harlow Clinic... .59 19 O

 




 

 

 

44 111111111111111111111 4 44444444444444444444444444444444444 444 444444444 4 44444444444 444 44444444444444444444 w.
.
A.
A.
A
A
S A.
S cm
.
m. S L m . R A.
r U r A.
.0 a e A.
f f r V A.
d a t o
.0 l a e h. I H. n .w A
U h 4W. .1 F 6 e f A
a g S u I V C Z [Q A.
.C .l A .II I. .4” 0
l l H W 1_2 . A la .w A.
T e U 5 m E l A.
F n l . n D; .
r S a M t d 0 u u.
S w 0 a k A? A s w ..
I A f re [m m m a, M m A
e S b b .m p 1 e to A.
R C h E m M p d n A
T I V T t r E A.
c e e .
a A 0.. A
D r p A.
U G /_ AA
4
C T m
W

dly enclose stamped addressed envelope with appl

 

 

Please apply to the above address for descriptive pamphlet and order

 

‘AAAA‘AAAAAAAAA‘AA‘AAAAAAAAA‘AAAAAAAA‘
'v‘ vvvvvvvvvvvvv'vvvvwvvvvvvvv‘vwv'

 

.l
flu. PT... .
A
.IIIIllIIIllI---Illllll'lll’-llllllllll’ll’lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll v
{ll‘l‘l‘l‘l““1““““l“l“l“‘l““‘l‘““"“l‘l‘ll‘l‘l‘l"l‘l‘“““““““( ll

 

V““““““““l

 

 

 

 




 

vvvvvv'vvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvv'vvvvv

v

A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A
A

AA
vv

(Please send stamped addressed envelope to RSPCA, 105 Jermyn S t., London S.

AAAAAAAAAA“AAAAA‘A
vvvvvvvvvvv'v'vv'vv'

for Order Form.)

.

.I

 

K AND WHITE

n

IN BLAC

 

x 6%”.

Actual size 8%”

Mounted on strong board.

EACH

PRICE ZS.

Envelopes

' luding

ll’lC

Post Free

for one dozen or over

per dozen ‘

21/—

vvvvvvvvvvvv'vvvvv'vvvv'v'v" 'vvvvv‘

1’ vv w‘vwﬁv'vvvv'

‘AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA‘AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA‘AAAAA‘AAAAAAAAAAAAA
‘ vvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvv"

 

 

 

 

Printed by Shenval Press, Simson Shand Ltd, London, Hartford and Harlow, and
published by Arthur W. Moss for the RSPCA at 105 Jermyn Street, London, SW1

 

 




