TN THE NEWS PARADE

ANIMAL ANTICS

In 1911 3 Milford, Conn., man picked
up a wood turtle while working in a corn
ﬁeld and carved his initials and the date on
the turtle’s hard undershell This year the
turtle was found in his pond 300 yards from
the spot and brought to him by a neighbor’s
boy. The man remembered the turtle well,
although he hadn’t seen him for forty-eight
years. “Hasn’t grown over two inches,” he
said.

.3.

Duke, 3 cocker Spaniel in Mill Valley,
Calif., developed cataracts in his eyes, kept
bumping into things. But he’s getting along
much better now. His owner has trained
Bos’n, a tomcat, to act as Duke’s Seeing Eye.

1!
'1 h'

During church services a woman in
Dallas, TeX., kept hearing nearby chirping
noises—while other parishioners gave her
cold stares. Acutely embarrassed, she ﬁnally
found the source: a baby chick which her
small daughter had put into her purse.

:1. .‘L .V.
4 \ o I l l

A Kansas boy stuck out his tongue at
his pet turtle which promptly bit him — you
guessed it —~ on the tongue. The boy’s mother
struggled ﬁve minutes to pull the pet loose,
but there were no complications. The boy
ate a hearty supper.

A Drifﬁeld, England, man ﬁtted his 12-
year-old wire-haired terrier Betty with a
hearing aid so she could bark again. He said
Betty stopped barking when she became so
deaf she couldn’t hear herself.

-::- .x- e:-

A Los Angeles woman was awarded
custody of the family dachshund at a pre-
divorce hearing, but her husband, was
granted visitation rights.

 

Clancy MacGillicuddy, a three-year-old
dalmatian underwent an operation for eye
cataracts, resulting, the veterinarian said,
from too much TV viewing. However, while
convalescing the pet of a Wyoming Justice
of the Peace was permitted to watch his
favorite program —— Lassie.

'3' $6 '3'

In Istanbul, Turkey, beaten with a cane
once too often by his gypsy master, a danc-
ing bear named Karaoglan broke his chains,
grabbed the cane, gave his master a sound

drubbing and ambled off.

4:.

A Newington, Conn., man reported that
his pet silver fox, valued at $200, was stolen
from his backyard during the night, despite
a sturdy chain. A day later he reported that
the animal was home again, held by the
same chain and in the same place from
which it was taken.

17

 




 

Siamese account for half of the registered cats.
Walter Chandoha

Abyssinian

Another placid, affection short-hair is the
Abyssinian, believed to be a descendant of
the sacred cat of Egypt. Many people regard
the Abyssinian as the oldest breed of domes-
tic cat, pointing to Egyptian bronzes and
paintings of cats, which emphasize the lithe-
ness, long body, Whiplike tail, large eyes
and alert ears which distinguish Abyssinians
today. It has a short, ﬁne russet brown coat,
ticked with black, gray or contrasting brown.

Manx

One of the oddest breeds is the tailless
Manx cat, from the Isle of Man off the coast
of Northern England. Some fanciers believe
Spanish sailors brought them from China,
Japan or Malay. Others think the Vikings
brought them from Northern Russia, or that
they were transported across the Black Sea
and Mediterranean from Crimea, where
long-tailed cats are seldom seen.

Apparently to compensate for lack of tail,
which helps a cat’s balance, the hind legs are
longer than the front legs, giving the Manx
speed, spring and a rabbity, hopping gait.
The rump is round as an orange with a hol-
low where the tail should be. An energetic
cat, the Manx is small and compact. The cars
are pointed and the fur is silky with a soft,
thick undercoat.

Domestic short-hair

Now about the “alley cat.” Compared

 

Their short hair is fawn colored with dark points.

to the rigid show-ring standards of color and
formation for the special breeds, the com-
mon Domestic short-hair has wide latitude.
Many garden variety cats have gone on to
win top prizes at cat shows, where they are
classed according to color: black, black and
white, blue ( or maltese), cream, white, tor-
toise shell and white, and tortoise shell
(males rare). The tabby, named for Atab, a
street in Baghdad famous for watered silks
which their coats resemble, comes in a variety

of shades: blue, brown, gray, orange and
silver.

In the show ring judges look for a long
body, slender, but deep and broad at the
chest. The head should be round and broad
between the ears and set on a thick, power-
ful neck. The ears should be small. The
cheeks should be full and the face short,
with a short, broad nose. The coat should be
short, close and ﬁne, not woolly or wiry.

The tail should not be long and should
taper to the tip and be carried level with the
back. The eyes, which should complement
the body color, should be large and round
with a pleasing expression.

These show-ring standards, of course,
don’t mean a thing to a cat who stays home
with nothing more to do than be a cat. A
doting owner will overlook a too-long tail
in favor of the charming, spirited personal-
ity that is an ingrained trait of every cat.

  

  

 

I."m-;-.-.mv.‘.'.‘.‘a.u.‘.mkw.'.w .

V.':‘7.'.'*‘""'.'.'.'.'ra'.'a'. vravn“ Afﬁrm-rs. .‘n-n. _ ' .u

 




WINTER 1959 ASPCA

 




PRODUCTS AND SERVICES

 

DOG & CAT FOOD

 

CAL—COD

C R U M B I. I Z E D
D O G M E A I.
57l8—48fh Sfreef Maspefh 78, N. Y.

 

 

STiIIweII 6-2468

 

 

 

ALPO. CHUNKY, CADILLAC. BIG BET
Dog and Cat Foods
KITTY LITTER. KLEEN KITTY, etc.

ANDREW GOETZ'S SONS. INC.

1144 Flushing Avenue Brooklyn 37, NY.
HYaClnl’h 7-5500

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

WAGNER BROS. FEED CORP.

Imporfers and Disfribufors

1160 MYRTLE AVE. BROOKLYN 21, NY.
GLenmore 5-2719

 

 

A Dog’s Life Can Be Beautiful” .(A Cat’s 100)
with VIT- A- BITS

Once- -a- day multi vitamin, min- §§\j

eral and anti- biotic tablets ~ .2
specifically designed for pets . . @ﬁwéll ‘
for a stronger, healthier, better look- ’ ' a
ing animal Prolong lifespan, make
for lively, cheerful companions. Give
as extra tidbits, or mix with regular
food. Contain vitamin 812, Niacin, Thiamin, Wheat Germ
Oil, Riboflavin and other health elements . . . certified
to meet same standards prescribed by government for
humans. Start pet on VIT--A BIT S and you will soon note
silkier coat, brighter eyes, happier behavior!
A full 3 months suppy —90 VIT-A-.BlTS—$2 98 ppd.
(2.pJars—$550p It.)
Send Check, Money Order. If C. O. D. fees extra.
MONEY BACK GUARANTEE

scorr MITCHELL HOUSE, Inc. 41; sSPIa'rﬁﬂway

nkers, N. Y

    
 

 

14KT. SOLID GOLD

HIS NAME CHARM! BEAUTIFULLY
ENGRAVED - SET WITH SAPPHIRE
0R RUBY . ATTACHES To COLLAR.
Check or Money Order, 10 Day Del.

3/4" 12.50 Inc. tax“ CHARLES KEMPER
1” 14.00 inc. tax 71 West 47 Street

   

SEND
NAME

 

 

Chains Available New York 36, N. Y.

 

20

 

DOG KENNELS

 

TEMPERAMENT! TYPE! TRAINABILITY!

CH. MAXIMIAN VON GROSSLAND
AND DHIS SIRE AT STUD
CH. QUESTOR MAX-IMIAM V GROSSLAND
U D

tion stock available.
Temperament guaranteed.
GROSSLAND KENNELS, Reg.
‘ James E. Grosselin
Orangeburg Road, Old Tappan, R..D 1, Westwood, N. I
Tel. CLoster 5- 1168

 

 

0 BEAUTIFUL PUPPIES and ADULT founda-

 

 

 

IRADELL KENNELS

Breeders and lmporfers
o

FINEST TYPES OF SKYE TERRIERS ALSO TOY POODLES
AND SILKY TERRIERS
Mrs. N. CIarkson Earl. Jr. John .I. Keyes
Ow Manager
Ridgefield, rConn. Idlewood 8-3400
Walter 0. Foster, handler

 

 

 

 

 

Beautiful Black and Silver Gray
Puli Puppies from
Championship Stock

Cedwood Kennels

Owner, Ellanor Anderson . rte.-
1166 Burlington Avenue Bristol, ConnectIcuI

 

 

 

 

 

GERMAN SHEPHERDS OF QUALITY

Good Bone Structure. Good Temperament. Con-
formity and Coat. for Show or Obedience.

WILLANA KENNELS

1508 Burneff Ave. Union-A, New Jersey

 

 

 

DOG TRAINING

 

 

 

CANINE COLLEGE

TRAINING -- TRIMMING -- SUPPLIES

BOARDING
New York Office Conn. Office
449 E. 86th ST. WEST REDDING. CONN.
TRafalgar 6-2417 WEbsfer 8-2l24

 

 

 

PET SUPPLIES

 

KEEP YOUR PETS
FREE OF FLEAS
TICKS. MITES. ETC. SPRAY THEM WITH
M I T - E - K I L
HINTON & co.. INC.
67 MURRAY ST.. NEW YORK CITY

 

 

 




 

 

Mrs. Walter S. Mack, chairman of the Animal
Kingdom Ball, discusses plans for the dinner-
dance with Louis Reynal, ASPCA Secretary.

Aluminum decor for
10th Animal Kingdom Ball

A decor fashioned of aluminum will high-
light the tenth annual Animal Kingdom Ball
to be held at the Sheraton-East on January
28. The supper-dance to beneﬁt the adoption
service will feature a carnival midway and
a merry-go-round with animals made of alu-
minum foil donated by Reynolds Metals
Company.

Under the adoption service program,
general care and medical advice is available
to all new pet owners who take animals from
ASPCA shelters. New pets are given the priv-
ilege of a veterinary examination free of
charge, along with temporary immunization
shots.

Last year 4,006 adopted pets were exam-
ined and cared for under the program. Based
on past costs for this service, the goal of
this year’s Ball is $10,000.

Mrs. Walter S. Mack is chairman of the
Ball, Mrs. John A. Morris is chairman of
the sponsors committee, and Heidi Schmid,
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Robert A. Schmid,
is chairman of the debutante committee.

Dick Nell will create the decor and Bob
Boucher’s orchestra will supply the music
for dancing.

 

WHY NOT GIVE A
LIVING GIFT?

If you are thinking of helping others why
not make a Christmas donation of an

AXE-HOUGHTON FUND

There is probably one that would be
ideal for your purpose:

THE
AXE-HOUGHTON
FUNDS: “A”
“B"
“STOCK"

. AXE same:
i ‘1; & ELECTRONICS
- CORPORATION

AXE-TEMPLETON GROWTH
FUND OF CANADA, LTD.

For Free Information Send Letter or Post-Card to.-

AXE SECURITIES CORPORATION

TARRYTOWN, N. Y.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

      

Great way
to buy stocks

Requires only $40 a month, or
every 3 months. Choice of any

of 1,200 stocks listed on New
York Stock Exchange. Start any
time. Quitanytime—nopenalties. /

Write for free booklet

THllzlgSOdN &1LIchN§ON /
roa way, ew or /
MEMBERS NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE A

 

 

All dogs in New York City, re-
gardless of age, must be licensed.
License is $3 at ASPCA ofﬁce in

your borough.

 

 

23

 

 

EXEC"

,.- - wv

"K‘....”.__‘£”

ELEMEWZEW-

"DIWl-iﬂVM‘ICWW-MI' \

_.;. . . .~. -‘-‘-‘e'i-};-:- ‘:-.-.'.3.;.;.;.;.;.:;;.-.:.:.-.-.-.;.g

.-.-.-?zx""-M~<x-m'ﬁ';ﬁ‘rxox\ _ ‘-:-:‘_ “\Z‘i‘ﬁ'ﬁ :ax _.:.:.. ._':"“\ a; ..s..-..




 




 

 

Laboratory technician Nancy Lambert an-
alyzes a specimen under a high-powered
microscope, a gift to the Hospital.

Hospital with a heart

One bleak November day Agnes J. Riddell,
just out of secretarial school and looking for
a job, knocked on the door of the ASPCA
Hospital. She was hired on the spot as Chief
Clerk and Secretary——for the magniﬁcent
sum of $25 a week. For the year was 1925.

Fact is, Miss Riddell didn’t think she’d
like the job and decided to give it a two-
week trial. But as can happen when you put
one year after another, Miss Riddell last
month celebrated her 34th anniversary with

the ASPCA.
On her ﬁrst day Miss Riddell shuddered

at the noise, the disinfectant odors and the
long trip from her home. Within two weeks,
however, she knew she had found a lifetime
career. Today, dark-haired, chic Miss Rid-
dell is in charge of four clerks and has seen
the Hospital grow from two veterinarians to

ten, from 16,000 to 39,000 patients a year.

In that ﬁrst year three circus lions were
patients in the Hospital. “When they roared,”
she recalls, “the Whole building vibrated.”

12

Veterinarian
anxious owner steadies pet. later opera-
tion was performed to remove cataract.

Since then, Miss Riddell is no longer sur-
prised at any animal that comes in. Besides
dogs and cats, there have been canaries,
monkeys, parakeets, ocelots, hamsters, snakes.

In 1950 she saw the Hospital move from
its adequate, but old-fashioned building on
24th Street to its present fully-equipped
modern facilities on 92nd Street. “We had
one operating room then,” she recalls. “Now
we have two, plus a special treatment room,
ﬁve examining rooms, a laboratory, an X-ray
room, and a ward for contagious diseases.”

Today the Hospital. staff of 29 includes
many dedicated people. There’s Harry
Klebbe, kennel attendant for 32 years, and
William Sims, kennel foreman for 31 years.
There’s clerk Dorothy Boyd and Norma
Domena, receptionist on Sundays, when the
Hospital is open for emergencies.

A hospital that cares for 39,000 patients a
year must have at its core a staff that’s highly
efﬁcient, yet warm-hearted and sympathetic.
The ASPCA Hospital is such an institution.

.
3
5

examines dog’s eye as

Business Manager Thomas A. Fegan as-
sures owner his pet will be cared for
even though he can’t afford to pay.

“Chipper’s going to be all right,” doctor tells a worried small boy whose pet

 

Mr. Fegan discusses a case with attendant
Arthur J. Meehan and Nettie Leinkram,
special appointment secretary.

Clerk Esther Ruby (left)
tient’s record with Agnes

1

parakeet has lost its pep.

checks a pa-
Rlddell, Chief
Clerk of the Hospital for 34 years.

9
V)

 

 




THE PRIMITIVE SLEEP

By HAL BORLAND

Hal Borland, a writer on nature subjects, has observed many a winter on
his hill-and-valley farm in the Berkshires. Since 1942 he has written
the weekly outdoor editorial in the Sunday New York Times. His books include

“This Hill, This Valley” and just out, “The Enduring Pattern,” about the
origins and meaning of life, both published by Simon & Sehuster.

y Thanksgiving here in the Berkshire
Hills where I live, not only the trees and
most of the plants have closed up shop for
the winter, but so have the insects, the cold-
blooded animals and several of the warm-
blooded ones. Winter—the early Latins
called it Hiberna—is at hand. And that
Latin word assumes a new meaning, Hiber-
nation, winter sleep.

Bees are the only insects in my area that
do not hibernate. Bees, and a few mud-
dauber wasps in my attic, which for some
strange reason waken every few weeks and
ﬁnd crannies and get downstairs and dis-
play abominable tempers. But the wasps are
exceptions, and not as well equipped with
instinct as the honey bees, which store honey,
eat well, and keep warm by doing physical
work in the hive.

Out in the garden and down on the river-
bank the toads and frogs burrow into the
soil and the mud and wait out the winter.
On the mountainside the blacksnakes re-
treat to underground havens and sleep. So
do the tortoises and the turtles, and the other
persistent remnants of the Age of Amphib-
ians and Reptiles. They have survived over
the ages because they were of a size that
could hide in the ground and sleep through
the cold months.

But when we think of hibernation we sel-
dom think of these cold-blooded winter
sleepers. We think of the warm-blooded ones,
the woodchuck, the bear, the chipmunk,
which will all be asleep in my valley before

December really sees winter get down to
business. It is a continuing wonder that any
warm-blooded animal can simply lie down
to sleep and never get up for food or drink
from November till March.

The answer is perhaps even more com-
plicated than it seems at ﬁrst thought. The
hibernating woodchuck, for instance, actu-
ally reverts to a prehistoric physical status
and becomes, in virtually every way, a cold-
blooded animal. All the bodily processes slow
down. Temperature drops into the 40s, just
about the same as the underground temper-
ature of the woodchuck’s Winter den. Pulse
diminishes to a point where it can scarcely
be detected. Heartbeat drops to one or two
a minute. Breathing almost stops. The ani-
mal becomes literally comatose.

In such a state, the chemical processes of
the body come almost to a standstill. With
virtually no respiration, the burning of body
fats slows to the faintest of ﬁres. Little energy
is needed by the comatose body, so little
energy is produced, just enough to maintain
a low minimum of blood circulation and
other vital processes. With such low a rate
of respiration, almost no water is consumed,
so the body is not materially desiccated.
And, safely hidden, the animal calls on no
nervous energy to be ever alert, ever ready
to run or ﬁght. So neither muscles nor
nerves need much repair.

In this state the woodchuck can survive
for months on the thick layer of fat he has
put on his body before he hibernated. And,

(Continued on page 21,)

Dainty footprints in the Shaw‘show
where a hungry corn-mini! want foraging.

Courtesy of the American Museum of Natural" History

 




in one can of Red Heart
than any dry dog food
...most canned dog foods

Red Heart comes in three
tasty varieties: Beef, Beef-
plus-Fish, Beef-plus-Liver!

@1959. Red Heart Div.. John Morrell & Co.

 




 

THE AMERICAN
SOCIETY FOR THE
PREVENTION OF
CRUELTY TO ANIMALS

FOUNDED AND INCORPORATED 1866

 

Ofﬁcers

William Rockefeller, President
William F. Morgan, Vice-President
James H. Ripley, Vice-President
Richard C. Kettles, Vice-President
William A. Meyerhofi, Treasurer
James H. Jenkins, Asst. Treasurer

R. W. Allen, Asst. Treasurer

Louis Reynal, Secretary

John W. Ream, Asst. Secretary
Arthur L. Amundsen, Asst. Secretary

Board of Managers

William Joshua Barney, Jr.
John D. Beals, Jr.
William E. Buckley
Ernest B. Burton
John W. Cross, Jr.
José A. Machado, Jr.
Alastair B. Martin
Joseph B. Murray
Horace H. Nahm
Hugh E. Paine

A. Wells Peck

W. Ross Proctor
George B. Wagstafi

Managers Emeritus

F. Ambrose Clark
Robert L. Jones
Henry J. Fisher
Samuel R. Milbank

Administration Ofﬁces TRafalgar 6-7700

441 East 92nd St., New York 28, N. Y. (York Ave.)
Arthur L. Amundsen, Director of Operations

George H. Tuscher, Director of Humane Work
Katherine M. Lehr, Secretary to Committees

Diana Henley, Director of Education

Thacher, Profﬁtt, Prizer, Crawley 81 Wood,
Attorney and Counsel

Hospital and Clinic TRafalgar 6-7700
441 East 92nd St., New York 28, N. Y.
John E. Whitehead, V.M.D., Chief of Staﬂ

Thomas A. Fegan, Business Manager

Public Relations Department PLaza 5-1650

30 East 60th St., New York 22, N. Y.
June Eliot, Director

Animalport OLympia 6-6042
Air Cargo Center, New York International

Airport, Jamaica 30, N. Y.

George F. Bauer, Resident Manager

Bronx Shelter TYrone 28500
420 Morris Park Avenue, Bronx 60, N. Y.
(between Tremont Ave. and East 178th St.)
N. Michael Bromley, District Manager

Brooklyn Shelter

233 Butler St., Brooklyn 17, N. Y.
(between Nevins and Bond Streets)
Harry J. Connolly, District Manager

TRiangle 5-9580

Manhattan Shelter
441 East 92nd St., New York 28, N. Y.

Francis Melvin, District Manager

TRafalgar 6-7700

Nassau County Shelters ORiole 6-5913
Pratt Blvd. Ext., Glen Cove, L. 1.

Vincent J. Patterson, Shelter Manager

70 Water Street, Long Beach, L. I.
James J. McKenna, Shelter Manager

GEneral 1-0660

Queens Shelter

94-27 158th St., Jamaica 33, N. Y.
Robert B. Ferris, District Manager

REpublic 9-4041

Richmond Shelter

4 Willow Ave., Rosebank, S. I. 5, N. Y.
Walter L. Hollinde, District Manager

GIbraltar 7-0122

Western Westchester Shelter

Old Saw Mill River Rd., Elmsford, N. Y.
Carl Stohr, Shelter Manager

LYric 2-7890




 

   

Popular American
breeds include

both cultivated
and garden variety

N the eat world, as anywhere else, the
common people far outnumber the aristo-
crats. Of the 30 million cats in this country,
99 percent are plain ordinary citizens, some-
times called “alley cats.” Officially, the breed
of common cat is called Domestic short-hair.
True, some may be forced to forage in
alleys, but the majority are cherished, well-
kept pets living comfortably on farms, in
city apartments or suburban split-levels.

The elite one percent of the population
may cost more (anywhere from $50 to a few
hundred dollars) and may look fancier in
the show ring, but a cat is a cat is a cat.
And what more can you ask?

Nevertheless, the aristocracy exists, divided
into two main groups: special short-hairs,
like Siamese, Burmese, Abyssinian and
Manx; and the long-haired Persian or
Angora, named for the Turkish city Ankara.

Persian

Long-hairs have luxurious, fluffy, silken
coats, with extra ruffs around the neck and

Aﬁectionate and alert, Abyssinians are descended
from the sacred cat of Egypt.

on the chest. Under all the fur the body is
sturdy and more compact than the short
hair. The body, legs and tail are shorter, the
head, chest and rump wider. A short, pushed-
in nose is desirable, and the ears sit low on
the head. Large saucer eyes are ideal.

Colors range from pure white to pure
black. In between are blue, blue cream, chin-
chilla or silver, cream, orange, smoke, tor-
toise shell, blue tortoise, silver and red
tabby, and shaded or masked silver. Cat
fanciers agree that a blue cat must be blue
all over, not only the hair, but lips, soles of
feet and even the skin.

On the whole, long-hairs are quieter and
lazier than short-hairs and perhaps more
affectionate.

Maine Cat

There is one American breed of long-hair
not very well known outside of a small
coterie of devotees who claim it is the most
beautiful cat they have ever seen. It’s called
a Maine cat and is supposed to be descended

A Manx has no tail and walks like a rabbit.
New York World-Telegram and Sun

 

 

 

 
 

 

‘
.i.
,
5
5

    
 
   




 

 

 

Mrs. William Joshua Barney, wife of newly-appointed ASPCA
Board member, and one of the country’s outstanding dressage rlders.

When the 1960 Olympics are held in
Rome next August, some of the keenest com-
petition will be in dressage, the meticulous
art of horsemanship in which rider and
horse move as one in a series of intricate
maneuvers. There are no visible cues. lt ap-
pears the rider is giving commands by tele-
pathy to a mindreading horse. But actually
the horse is guided by invisible slight pres
sure from the rider’s legs, shifts of balance,
seat and weight, and adjustment of the reins.

When done by an experienced rider and
a well-schooled horse, dressage is a perfect
high-stepping combination of harmony,
grace, suppleness, ease and balance.

This sounds like work, and it is. The all-
girl U. S. team that competed in the warm-
up Pan-American games held in Chicago last
September has devoted long years of pain-
staking effort to dressage. Trish Galvin, of
California, began riding almost as soon as
she was able to walk.

Trained by the prominent German teacher,
Richard Watjen, 19-year-old Karen Moln-
tosh, of Bedford Village, N. Y., has won a
number of dressage championships on her
German-bred horses Maltaser and Scipio.

Completing ten years of dressage work,

Jessica Newberry, 20, of Ausable Forks,
N. Y., has been training in Frankfort, Ger-
many, with Liselott Linsenhoff, German Win-
ner of the 1956 Olympic Bronze Medal, and
ten-time winner of the Grand Prix de
Dressage. So apt was the pupil that she de-
feated her instructor at one show.

In the Pan-American Games this crack
U. S. team ﬁnished second behind the all-
male Chilean team. But, as expected, Trish
Galvin won the individual gold medal riding
Rath Patrick, rated as the number one dress-
age horse at the 1956 Olympics.

Mastering dressage is equal to mastering
the most difﬁcult of arts. It has been com-
pared to the ballet in the number of years of
training required, ﬁrst in elementary dres-
sage, called the Campagne School, then in
the Haute Ecole, the highest stage of dress-
age. Very few horses are suited to the exact-
ing work of the Haute Ecole, which includes
such intricate maneuvers as the pialfe, trot-
ting the horse in one spot; the pirouette,
circling in one spot; two tracking, trotting
the horse forward and to the side at the same
time; the passage or Spanish trot, the horse
extending each foot with a slow and precise
action, and galloping forward with a change




 

 

Cats quickly respond to Puss ’n Boots

in energy. . . disposition. . . good appearance

A balanced whole-fish formula
means livelier, lovelier pets.

Few sights are more gratifying to a pet owner
than to watch the right diet work its healthy
magic. And that’s surely one good reason why
whole-ﬁsh Puss ’n Boots Cat Food is so univer-
sally popular—the results of a balanced diet
are apparent in three weeks or less! Eyes be-
come brighter, coats glossier, and dispositions
more playful and affectionate.

The natural life balance of whole ﬁsh—as
the chart shows—is what makes today’s
Puss ’n Boots so nourishing. Calcium for
sound teeth and strong bones, proteins for
strength and energy, and vitamins and
minerals for all-round health. Selected
choice cereals are added for regularity,
plus a bonus of vitamins B, and E.

Begin feeding Puss ’n Boots today. You’ll see
a deﬁnite improvement in three weeks or less.

10

 

 

 

How the Natural life Balance of
WHOLE FISH is Retained in Puss ’n Boots

    

Bone Structure, for liver and Glands, gostly Fillets, rich
valuable calcium for minerals, 0115 in essential hrg
and phosphorus. and vitamins. quality prorems.

 

 

Packed in 8-02. and l5-oz. sizes

PUSSh
BOOTS

Fine quality makes it America's
largest sel/ing cat food.

Coast Fisheries Division at The Quaker Oats Company. Chicago 54. Illinois.




 

 

 

 

HOW long

do
animals

live "?

A May ﬂy can expect to enjoy life on the
wing for but a single day. A giant tortoise,
on the other hand, may live to celebrate his
150th birthday. Between these two extremes
range the life spans of other animals.

Cows, chickens, dogs and pet canaries are
old at 20. The wandering sea gull, the gentle
dove and the big ostrich can expect 25 years
of life, although some authorities claim that
ostriches have lived to the age of 70.

There are cases of domestic cats chalking
up 30 long years of life, while their wild
cousins the tigers live to about 20 and lions
to around 25. Horses are the longest living
mammal, except for possibly the elephant.
Some mares have been known to breed up to
the age of 25. The longevity record for
horses is probably 50 years.

The animal with the reputation for living
the longest is the elephant. Some people
claim they know of elephants who lived to
150 and 200 years. The truth is that the ele-
phant is an old fellow at 50 and he just may
live to celebrate his 60th birthday.

According to legend, there are elephant
graveyards in Asia and Africa. Tradition
has it that as their time draws near, gaunt,
aged elephants make their last long pilgrim-
age to these ancestral burial places to wait
for death. Such an elephant graveyard
would naturally be rich in ivory tusks.

18

A SOD-pound giant tortoise of the Galapagos
Islands holds the longevity record for animals.
Courtesy of the American Museum of Natural History

So far as we know there is no elephant
graveyard, but the legend is not entirely
groundless. After 50 or 60 years worn-out,
old patriarchs seek the shade of the upper
valleys where food is plentiful and easy to
get. The end usually comes during the hot
dry season. The weary elephants climb down
into the almost dry river beds for a last

drink and a cool bath. There they die.

Whales have also been considered to have
an exceptionally long life, yet no one has
been able to prove that a whale ever lived
longer than about 40 years, the average
being around 20.

Often show places calling themselves “alli-
gator farms,” claim that alligators live to
500 years. One even claimed to have an alli-
gator 1,000 years old. As far as scientists
can determine, alligators probably do live
to exceed a century, but not much more.

Long life has been attributed to parrots,
with some stories crediting them with spans
up to 150 years. Actually, parrots live to
around the half century mark, and many
attain a ripe old age of 80.

Among the primates, closest animals to
man in nature’s order of things, the orang-
utan has a fairly long life He may live for
35 years in a zoo and probably even longer
in the forest. The chimpanzee reaches matu-
rity in his tenth or twelfth year and lives to

 

 




 

 

 

 

The Primitive Sleep
(Continued from page 8)

even after those months, he can emerge from
his den when spring comes and be alert,
eager, hungry and full of energy. His re-
serves are low, however, and unless he ﬁnds
food and drink soon after emerging he is
in trouble. That is why the newly emerged
woodchucks I see in late March are in such
a hurry. They have two deep urgencies upon
them—to ﬁnd food, and after that to ﬁnd
a mate. Their tempers are short at that time.
They ﬁght among themselves, and if they
are attacked by farm dogs they ﬁght back
with desperate ferocity.

They are, in short, warm-blooded animals
again, with high metabolism, racing hearts,
voracious appetites. In every physical sense,
every sense of bodily function, they have in
a matter of months retreated into the pre-
historic past, existed in the cold-blooded
world, and come back across the eons again
to the world of today.

It is this annual retreat into the remote
past, this physiological regression, that bafﬂes
and fascinates me. Why does it happen?
Why should these warm-blooded animals
make such a biological retreat every year of
their lives? The obvious answer —— to escape
the rigors of winter—is not enough. Other
animals, even less well equipped to face the
cold and privation of winter, do face it and
survive. The squirrels, for instance. True,
the gray squirrel can sleep through a stormy
spell and slow down its bodily processes
somewhat; but squirrels do not hibernate.
As for the winter shortage of food, the cot-
tontail rabbits make out; and their diet is
not greatly different from the woodchucks”.

What we have here, then, is a kind of
biological reversion, a backward-running
clock of evolution, that is called into action
periodically by a few chosen creatures. The
process itself is well known, but the reasons
are obscure. Every winter, in the dens up on
my mountainside, the woodchucks go back
a million years or more. And the best we can
do is call it hibernation, winter sleep.

 

Billy, the Animalport’s mascot

Billy the Kid

A ten-month-old goat has become ﬁrmly
ensconced as mascot of the ASPCA Animal-
port at New York International Airport.
Immediately dubbed Billy by the staff, he
answers to his name when called, especially
at mealtime. Until recently he was bottle fed
diluted evaporated milk. But now he eats
bran and mash and grazes on the grass.

Billy is housed in a crate insulated with
a tar paper roof in the Animalport’s pad-
dock. The crate was built by the staff when
the goat was turned over to the ASPCA last
June by a woman who had kept it as a pet
in her New York apartment. Billy was get-
ting too big and she asked us to ﬁnd a good
home for him. What better home than the
Animalport, Where thousands of animals pass
through on route to the far corners of the
world.

The mascot is not only popular with school
children who visit the Animalport, but also
with other animal guests. Oddly enough,
when the Animalport opened two years ago,
another goat was guest of honor. Well-
traveled Billy XIV, mascot of the U. S. Naval
Academy at Annapolis, flew in for the
occasion.

21

 

  

. . . . 4.1»): .

. ....._.,._...... ‘ ... u
. - :»:-:dad?!»x¢:-:-:-:-m:-:c-mm+x-.—:sv_u. . :u. .Jﬂh’b‘




LETTERS

 

 

Vicious advertisement
D I should have contributed to the ASPCA long

since because I have known for years of the work
that it has done, but I cannot let that vicious ad-
vertisement—which I read on my vacation, in the
New York Times — pass without responding, not to
those responsible for the advertisement but to you.
I enclose my check for $25 as a contribution to the
ASPCA because I like what you are doing and
think that you are fully justiﬁed in sending strays
to the laboratories, in order to aid medical research.

Stanley M. Isaacs

New York, N. Y.

Bouquets for Animal Protection

P You are doing a ﬁne job and your publication
is way ahead of others in its ﬁeld. I look forward
to each issue.
Helen C. Hunt
Washington, Conn.
> Thank you for the lovely magazine. I enjoyed
every page of it.
Mrs. John Fitzgerald
Yonkers, N. Y.

Last moments

> Your man was most kind when he removed our
beloved pet dog Lady, and it sort of softened the
unhappiness it caused us when we had to have her
destroyed due to old age. It made us feel that we
had given her at her last moments into kind and
gentle hands.

Mr. and Mrs. George Hickey

New York, N. Y.

Conﬁdence restored

> I wish to commend the ASPCA for having such
a humane person as the driver of the emergency
ambulance which called at my house for an aban-
doned sick cat. He was so kind and gentle with
this sick animal, he has helped to restore some of
my conﬁdence in the SPCA, a conﬁdence which I
had lost when your Society went along with the
Hatch-Metcalf Act, a law to which I am unalter-
ably opposed.

Mrs. Dorothy Burkhardt

Woodside, N. Y.

Every little bit

> This $10 couldn’t go to a ﬁner organization
than yours. How I wish I could afford to contribute
much, much more, but I know “every little bit helps.”

Amy Frances Evers

New York, N. Y.

Monkey business

> It was indeed kind of you to help us in connec-
tion with the shipment of spider monkeys which we
received at Idlewild Airport yesterday morning.
Reinforcement of the crate was very effective and
the shipment reached here intact, all six of the
monkys in good condition.

Grace Davall

Assistant Curator, Mammals and Birds
New York Zoological Society

New York, N. Y.

Quarantine service

> I feel I must write you and let you know what
a tremendous job your quarantine department is
doing. Ten days ago I was bitten by my own dog,
Herman, a beagle. The next day my family doctor
prescribed some pills to combat any infection that
could arise and said the dog would have to be
quarantined for ten days since it was a face bite.

With much trepidation, fear and anxiety at hav-
ing him cooped up after almost two years of being
a member of the family, I became even sicker over
that than the bite or the pills. However, we got to
the shelter with me weeping profusely. They took
our dog, showed me where he would be, showed
me the runs where he would be exercised twice a
day, and in general did everything they could to
make me feel happier.

Yesterday we picked him up to come home. I
don’t know exactly what I expected but I certainly
was not prepared for such a happy sight. He looked
so well taken care of, happy, clean—his coat
shone. I couldn’t have done better.

Mrs. W. H. Pae
Flushing, N. Y.

 

 




 

 

EDITORIAL

A humane slaughter law

for New York State

When the New York State Legislature
convenes next month, the ASPCA will be
out in front urging passage of a state humane
slaughter law.

Twenty million food animals a year will
continue to be tortured, before and during
slaughter, until state legislation is enacted
to supplement the federal law which goes
into effect on July 1, 1960. Only slaughter
houses which sell meat to the U. S. govern-
ment are affected by the federal law. State
laws are needed to cover the large propor-
tion of the country’s packing houses that do
not sell to the U. S. government.

Five states— California, New Hampshire,
Minnesota, Wisconsin, Washington—have
already passed their own humane slaughter
laws. Certainly New York, with 337 slaughter
houses, should be among the leaders. It will
be too, if you insist.

The several humane slaughter bills intro-
duced in the New York Legislature in 1959
did not come out of committee. But prospects
for 1960 look considerably brighter. We un-
derstand that Senator John H. Cooke, of
Alden, and Assemblyman John J. Conway,
of Rochester, whose bills the ASPCA backed
last year, will introduce similar measures
this year. We will analyze these bills and
compare them with any others that may be
introduced. We Will then recommend the bills
we feel merit your support.

Meantime, write your State Senator and
Assemblyman asking them to support hu-
mane slaughter legislation during the coming
session of the legislature.

After 40 years of work to relieve the
suffering of animals used for food purposes,
victory is within our grasp. Now is not the
time to relax.

 

    
  

VOL. 13, N0. 3 WINTER 1959
Janice Paprin, Editor
IN THIS ISSUE
About Cats ...................... 2
Dressage: The Elegant Art of
Horsemanship ................. 6
The Primitive Sleep .............. 8
The Doctor Listens .............. 11
Hospital with a Heart ............ 12
Teach Your Dog Manners ........ 14
Two Board Members Appointed. 16
Animal Antics ................... 17
How Long Do Animals Live? ...... 18
Billy the Kid .................... 20
Books and Records .............. 22
Letters .......................... 24
Please, Santa ....... Inside back cover

 

Cover picture

The silent snow of winter covers a seemingly
lifeless earth. Yet under the snow-clad meadow
life merely sleeps until spring’s awakening.
Woodchucks, bears and chipmunks bide their
time in hibernation.

Photo by Clifford E. Matteson from National Audubon Society

Animal Protection is published three times yearly
by The American Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, Editorial Ofﬁce, 30 East 60th
Street, New York 22, N. Y.

 

  




 

 

ASPCA obedience trainer Blanche Saunders dur-
ing a class in Manhattan.

UPPIES do not come equipped with a

built-in set of good manners any more than
babies do. To be socially acceptable, a dog
must be trained to come when called, keep
off the furniture and be a quiet, well-behaved
guest. Obviously, the highest compliment
you can pay a dog owner is to comment on
his pet’s beautiful manners.

Our canine population is increasing in
direct proportion to our increasing human
population. There are now over 25 million
dogs in the U. S.———and they are pretty
evenly distributed in city, suburban and
rural homes. Due to this skyrocketing popu-
lation, some communities have found it
necessary to pass laws governing dogs
strictly or prohibiting them entirely. It is
highly unlikely that these laws are due to
dog-phobia among the city fathers. It is
much more probable that such civic govern-
ments have had unfortunate experiences with
bad-mannered dogs.

Back to school

Every dog has the right to a good educa-
tion. To uphold the reputation of pets in
your community, take your dog — and your-
self—to school. Obedience training classes
give you the beneﬁt of professional instruc-
tion by experts in the ﬁeld. Under such
guidance, you are trained to train your dog.

Unfortunately, training classes are too few
and far between. As a public service, Amer-
ican industry is doing something about this.
In cooperation with the Pet Food Institute,

14¢

Teach your dog manners

How to launch a class in; obedience

. . . 7 . .
trammg m your busmess or commumty

an association of dog and cat food manu-
facturers, industrial recreation directors have
set up programs for employees and their
dogs at many public-spirited companies.

In New York, where the ASPCA has been
conducting obedience training classes since
1944, more than 15,000 dogs have been
graduated with honors. The fee for nine
weekly classes, in which dog and owner are
trained together, is $15.

In Manhattan the classes meet at Washing-
ton Irving High School under the instruction
of Blanche Saunders. John Ringwald is the
trainer for the classes held at the East School
in Glen Cove, Long Island.

Set up a class

To launch a class in obedience training
in your business or community, ﬁrst ﬁnd a
qualiﬁed trainer. A local kennel owner or
the pet editor of your newspaper may be
able to suggest someone. If not, run an ad.

Screen the applicants carefully. Read up
on basic obedience commands. Ask each ap-
plicant to demonstrate one of the commands
with a trained dog. His method may differ
slightly from the book since every trainer
works in his own way. However, a proﬁcient
instructor will impress you with a dog that
responds well and instructions that are easy
for you to understand.

Finding students

Once you have engaged an instructor.
line up your class. This should be fairly

 

simple if your community has never offered
obedience courses. Announcement posters
can be distributed to pet shops, veterinarians’
ofﬁces, and sporting goods stores. Write a
personal note to the people you think would
be interested in joining the class. Contact
your local radio stations and newspapers.

Your instructor should set the limit on the
size of the class. He knows best the maxi-
mum number of students he can teach efﬁ-
ciently. And be sure to check with him
before you select a training area. Since he
knows how much space each pupil requires,
he will be able to tell if the size is right. The
local high school, park, sports ﬁeld or theatre
may be willing to contribute space.

When the class is ﬁlled, call the group to-
gether to meet the instructor and discuss
equipment needs. Most trainers specify a
welded chain training collar and a strong
leather leash six feet long. An obedience
demonstration by the instructor at this ﬁrst
meeting will promote interest.

Obedience training is no longer a luxury
for show dogs but a very real need for all
dogs. Its greatest value is in conditioning
a dog to obey his owner at all times, in every
way and without hesitation. A dog that is
constantly scolded and punished is not a
happy dog. It is the well-behaved dog that
is petted and praised. Successful training
will eliminate the need for scolding, protect
pups from hazardous trafﬁc, contribute a
great deal to the understanding and affection
between you and your dog.

 




 

 

 

Domestic short-hairs are the best known feline
pet in America. Walter Chandoha

from cats which once lived on sailing ships.
The down-east cat is long-haired with a
slight resemblance to Persians. Sometimes
called a “coon cat” because its bushy tail is
striped like a raccoon’s, it was once thought
to be a cross between a cat and a raccoon.
Found mostly in New England, the Maine
cat is big and solidly built, with a thick
undercoat which enables it to Withstand very
cold weather. The coat comes in all colors,
with a dark, rich tabby predominating.

Siamese

The Siamese, perhaps most unusual and
popular of the de luxe short-hairs, may once
have been the sacred eat of Siam. In the
United States today the breed accounts for
half the registered cats and has a following
of cat fanciers who swear that there are no
cats to approach them. One reason is that the
Siamese is independent and determined to
get its way. Yet it delights in human com-
pany and forms a very close attachment to
its owner.

The Siamese is highly intelligent, extremely
active and very vocal in a loud, high-pitched
yowl. Diametrically opposed to the round-
headed, short-faced, massive long-hair, the
Siamese is muscular, lean and graceful, with
thin legs and long, tapering tail. The head
is triangular, the nose is pointed. Ears are
broad at the base. Almond-shaped, blue eyes
are an outstanding trait.

4

 

The coat is short, but thick and soft. In
a seal-point Siamese, it is a delicate fawn
color, which deepens to chocolate on the
face, ears, legs and tail. Much rarer are the
blue-point Siamese, fawn or pale blue, with
dark blue points; the frost point, a very
light kind of blue point; and the chocolate
point, with pale brown markings. Siamese
kittens are creamy white at birth. One of the
fascinating experiences of raising Siamese is

to watch the brown or blue pattern emerge,

slowly but surely. It is usually complete when
the kitten is about six months old.

Himalayan

A few American breeders are now devel-
oping a new breed by crossing Persians and
Siamese. It’s called the Himalayan. The
standard calls for a typical long-haired cat
with short legs, stubby body, broad head,
pushed-in face, but with Siamese markings
and blue eyes. Himalayans have the gentle
disposition and soft voice of the Persian,
plus some of the alertness and quickness of
the Siamese.

Burmese

The Burmese, quite rare in the United
States, resembles an oriental idol. It has a
sleek, dark brown, almost solid coat. Its
eyes are golden and almond-shaped, slanting
toward the nose in true oriental fashion. This
muscular, svelte animal is docile, friendly
and quiet.

Persians have long, silky coats and round eyes.

  

  




DRESSAGE:

the elegant art

of hersemanship

of lead, ﬁrst every fourth stride, then every
third, then second and ﬁnally every stride.

The secret of dressage training is to de-
velop the horse’s natural ability without
coercion or tricks, but through systematic,
progressive gymnastic training, which makes
the horse’s muscles stronger and more ﬂex-
ible.

The elegant art of dressage developed in
Europe many centuries ago, mainly to in-
crease the efficiency of the war horse. In the
1600’s kings and princes of England, France,
Germany and Austria founded riding acade-
mies where great masters devoted themselves
to the theory and practice of riding.

In the early 18th century the Spanish Rid-
ing Stables were founded in Vienna, and the
Royal Stud at Lipizza was established. In
1735 a handsome baroque building was
erected in Vienna for the Spanish school,
which even today remains the only place
where the true classical art of riding is
taught and practiced.

The most famous dressage horses are the
Lipizzaner stallions. Only horses with proper
conformation, temperament and gait are ac-
cepted for stud. This combination of natural
ability and methodical training achieves not

 

only beauty and efﬁciency, but great stamina
for the horses.

Today dressage is just beginning to take
hold in the U. S., with more and more rid-
ing academies including dressage instruction.
New York’s center of dressage is Sunnyﬁeld
Farm in Bedford, where Richard Watjen,

former expert of Germany, is coach.

Forty years a dressage rider, Mr. Watjen
is author of several books on the subject,
among them “Dressage Riding.” He has in-
structed four Olympic teams—in 1928, 1936,
1948 and 1952 and is now coaching several
possible candidates for the two places on
the team to represent Uncle Sam at the

1960 Olympics.

Mr. Watjen sums up what he calls his
ruling passion for dressage. “The Haute
Ecole asks for perfection, and this can only
be achieved by sacriﬁces, consistent hard
work and energy. Only after long years of
arduous work will a rider emerge who looks
upon riding as a creative art.”

Asked why anyone would want to go to
all this trouble, Mr. Watjen replies, “For
the same reason human beings practice
music, poetry and sculpture.”

 

 




THE D

OR LIS'I'E

 

 

Care of baby animals
by the Veterinary Staff
ASPCA Hospital and Clinic

Proper care of animals when they are
young will give them the best chance for
survival and a good strong start in life.

Diet

Naturally, newborn animals should be
allowed to nurse from their mother. If for
any reason a puppy or kitten cannot be fed
by the mother, prepare a simple and nour-
ishing formula of canned goat’s milk, easily
obtained in most drug stores. Use equal parts
goat’s milk and water, warmed to body tem-
perature (about 100 degrees F”) If the ani-
mals are able to nurse, use a doll’s bottle.
If not, an eye dropper. Newborn animals
should be fed a half to one ounce every two
to three hours.

After several weeks, feed full strength
goat’s milk. At six weeks a puppy or kitten
is ready to be weaned and started on solid
food. Begin with a mixture of baby food
(pablum, strained liver, beef, lamb, veal,
milk, cooked eggs). A Vitamin-mineral sup~
plement is recommended to prevent rickets
and anemia, and to insure good growth.

As the weeks progress, commercial dog or
cat food can be added to the diet. Basically,
four meals a day should be given until three
months of age, three meals until six months,
and two meals thereafter. After one year you
can feed one meal a day if you prefer.

Preventing disease

A newborn animal receives temporary im-
munity against distemper, hepatitis, and lep-
tospirosis from antibodies passed through

the mother’s milk — providing of course that
the mother is immune. After the animal is
weaned at six weeks, he becomes very sus-
ceptible if exposed to these often fatal
diseases and must be protected by temporary
“puppy” injections. Newborn animals that
do not feed from the mother have no immu-
nity and the shots should be started at birth.

Temporary shots are usually given at ten-
day to two-week intervals until permanent
vaccinations, which afford longer lasting im-
munity, are begun. Many vaccinated dogs,
however, lose their immunity when they are a
year old. So re-vaccination is often advisable.

The annual anti-rabies inoculation should
be started at six months of age. Since cer-
tain worms can pass from the mother to
offspring while the puppies and kittens are
still in the womb, a veterinarian should make
a fecal examination of the mother before
breeding and of the babies when a month
old. By six weeks the animal can be wormed
if necessary.

Housebreaking

Kittens will use sand-ﬁlled pans without
coaching. House training a puppy requires
patience, perseverance and more patience.
Start by taking your pup to the same spot
ﬁrst thing in the morning, after each meal,
and before retiring at night. Some puppies
are housebroken at three months. Others take
longer. Young animals are like children and
overdiscipline does not bring loving results.

Spaying

If you intend to breed your female dog or
cat, spaying is recommended. Spaying will
add years to the life of your animal by pre-
venting breast cancer, uterine infections and
false pregnancy, which are prevalent in un-
spayed females that do not have litters. In
addition, it avoids the nuisance of “heat”
periods.

A castrated male cat has less tendency to
roam and usually makes a better pet. Castra-
tion is not recommended for male dogs, ex-
cept for medical reasons. Ideally, neutering
should be done at six months of age.

11

 

 

 




 

 

your dog needs

ALPO

100% MEAT

 

Lean meat, good meat. . .chunks, not ch0pped.

 

Not a speck of cereal filler in ALPO.
Just fragrant wholesome

meat. . . in chunks. ALPO.

 

Next time get ALPU...Beef, Hersemeat, Lame, Chicken (fine). New! ALPU Beet Liver

 

Two Board Members appointed

The ASPCA announces the appointment
of William Joshua Barney, Jr. and Ernest B.
Burton to the Board of Managers. Both men
have been active in the animal world, Mr.
Barney in horse circles and Mr. Bur-ton in
dog circles.

Mr. Barney, a resident of Southport, Conn.,
is President of the National Horse Show, and
owns Master William, one of the horses on
the U. S. Jumping Team, and Missana and
Miss Cilly, two dressage horses. Mrs. Barney,
however, is the rider in the family. She is
one of the top dressage riders in the country.

A Yale graduate, Mr. Barney is Executive
Vice President of W. J. Barney Corp., a
building and construction ﬁrm. He is a mem-
ber of the Fairﬁeld County Hunt Club and
the OX Ridge Hunt Club.

16

Mr. Burton is a member of the West-
minster Kennel Club and a delegate to the
American Kennel Club. A ﬁeld trial judge
and ofﬁcial, he breeds Labradors at his
Huntaway Kennels in East lslip, L. 1. Mr.
Burton is President of Brooks Burton Co., a
textile ﬁrm, and Burgill, a sportsmen’s acces-
sory ﬁrm. He is a member of the Racquet
and Tennis Club, the River Club and the
Southside Sportsmen’s Club.

The Board also accepts with regret the
resignation of William A. Rockefeller and
Robert L. Jones. Mr. Rockefeller, father of
ASPCA President William Rockefeller, joined
the Board in 1946. Mr. Jones served as
Assistant Treasurer from 1934 to 1940, and
as Treasurer from 1940 to 1953. He has now
been named a Manager Emeritus.




 

 

 

around 25. At the age of 22 a gorilla is said
to be roughly the same as a man of 70,
and some gorillas may live 28 years or more.
Interestingly enough, old gorillas turn gray.

In the ﬁrst century A.D. a Roman natu-
ralist named Pliny the Elder compiled an
encyclopedia of natural history It was full
of errors. And even today you may still see
some of these errors in a few natural history
books. One such misconception is that cer-
tain ﬁsh, like the pike, salmon and carp, live
to 100 or 150. In medieval times carp were
supposed to have lived for hundreds of years
around moats.

Actually, the pike may reach 20 and the
carp 60. Salmon usually spawn when they
are two years and then die after spawning.
A salmon that has spawned four times is
extraordinary. Such a ﬁsh would be about
12 years old.

The one animal that does live up to its
reputation for long life is the turtle, cham-

pion among all back-boned animals. The
foot-long common box turtle, found in the
United States and a ﬁne pet, frequently
lives over 50 years and may reach a maxi-
mum of 123 years.

But the granddaddy of all is the giant tor-
toise, weighing upwards of 500 pounds.
Back in the 18th century English explorer
Capt. James Cook presented a tortoise he
found in the Galapagos Islands, off the coast
of Ecuador, to a Hawaiian princess. The tor-
toise was reported to be 177 years old. The
New York Zoological Society accepts this as
the world’s longevity record.

However, the American Museum of Natu-
ral History feels it does not have substantial
evidence of the case and accepts as a record
the age of another tortoise found on the
island of Mauritius. It was reported to be
152 years old. If it hadn’t been killed acci-
dentally, scientists feel it might have reached
the two-century mark.

 

NEW WINNER!

  

ALSO

 
  

Av AiLABLE
lN 5° “5'
BAGS FOR

KENNELS‘
. ASK YOUR
supPuER

 
 

 

 
   
   
   
   
   
  

   
  
 

Sizes: ‘lO‘/4 015., 30 015., 4 lbs., 20 lbs.

DOG DINNER

(REPLACES PAL 'rmv BITS) ®

Now—a “complete food” that has been thoroughly tested for
3 years on 3 generations of dogs! Puppies and full-grown dogs—~fed
exclusively on new Pal Dog Dinner—met every standard of sound
and healthy growth our nutritional experts demand. There’s no need
to add vegetables or meat or milk or supplements of any kind. Keep
your dog on a steady diet of Pal Dog Dinner and watch him thrive!

19

 




 

 

.. .. ‘Remelnbct Us

WWW may

' com use " ?

" than anything '
' elsefordoqs

tochew upon .

.in the long run! ~

SWIHWIIW' ' . ..
PROVE" OAFE FOR YOUR DOG!
....A9|( YOUR VEIERINARIAN

1;; man In moms Alum "099mm
~ nuns, mo ummoumm

(9AM 2M Doc's um. no cosm
302cm

g} Ill 9m mum mm
mm magnum»

llEFlOlAl TOO“! CLEANING AND
OOH “ROM..."O TNT" WEAR

[30 opens. .no tumult:
mums... no Imumu
910mm

NYLABONEconponAnoN

P.0.3017222 Oklahomaﬁly 12,0Ho.

 

 

A must for
Aquarium
Enthusiasts!

ALL NEW i ‘
IN COLOR!

Golden Anniversary

 

Books and records

HENRY BERCH, FOUNDER OF THE
A.S.P.C.A. By Alvin F. Harlow. Julian
Messner, Inc. 186 pages $2.95.

Since the only other book written about
Henry Bergh is now out of print, this slim
volume is a welcome biography of the nine-
teenth century aristocrat who changed this
country’s attitude toward animals. But even
if there were scores of other biographies
about Bergh, this book would stand out as
a factual tale of action and excitement told
in highly readable prose.

To gather his material the author poured
over Bergh diaries, correspondence and
scrapbooks in the ASPCA archives. A ﬁne
Christmas gift for the teen-agers or adults
on your list.

A NATURAL HISTORY OF NEW YORK.
By John Kieran. Houghton Miﬁlin. 428
pages. $5.75.

It may surprise many native New Yorkers
to ﬁnd that even in the greatest of our cities,
now four-ﬁfths covered with concrete and
steel, nature has not been driven out. In a
lively, conversational style, colored with illus-
trative anecdotes, John Kieran guides us
through meadows, pools, hills and rivers in
the metropolitan area, pointing out bald
eagles, hawks, ducks, snakes, bats, Canada
snow geese, deer, skunks, spiders, toads,
sugar maples, chestnut oaks, blackberries,
and water lilies A choice gift item even for
those who live west of the Hudson.

OLD POSSUM’S BOOK OF PRACTICAL
CATS. T. S. Eliot reads his own poems
about cats on a long-playing, high ﬁdelity
record. Recorded by Spoken Arts, Inc. $5.95.

Over the years the celebrated poet T. 5.
Eliot has written more than a dozen slyly
humorous poems on cats. Here he reads the
whole collection, ranging from how to name

 

 

 

TROPICAL FISH HANDBOOK CATALOG

The most complete selection of tropical fish. beauti-

fully illustrated in natural colors. This 60-page hand- for the man or woman WhO has a cat and a
book is an encyclopedia of tropical fish. breeding,

care. do-it-yourself. etc” etC- Only 50¢ hi-ﬁ set. Available at record shops or

AQUARIUM STOCK COMPANY, INC. from Spoken Arts, 95 Valley Road, New
31 Warren St.. N. Y. 7. N. Y. Rochelle7 N Y

a cat to how to address a cat. Just the gift

 

 

 

 

 

[\D
[O

 

 




I want a puppy for Christmas

The child had her wish —— and another puppy found a home. Examined in

ASPCA’S Hospital, he was found to he in good health and was given a temporary shot
against distemper. The child’s parents were told how to care

for the new member of the family.

But in spite of preventive measures dogs, like humans, do get sick.
One day this little fellow may he a patient in our Hospital — 38,879 last year.
He may he a charity case — 35 percent were last year.

Your Christmas gift to the ASPCA Hospital
and Clinic could save his life.

 




