 

 

CHIROMBO

 

A story lies behind the name of Chirombo, native for ‘Wild
thing of the Bush’. Chirombo is placid in this pictUre, tamed
by Mrs Mackenzie (of Salisbury, Rhodesia), who sends the
picture. Four years previously the owners of the farm now
occupied by Mrs Mackenzie’s family left. The cat escaped
from the car window and ran off into the bush. When he
came back to the farm, the next owners stoned him away.
Treatment of this sort made him suspicious of human beings,
and when Mrs Mackenzie’s family took the farm they had
to use all their patience to make him into the mild and

cherished pet this picture shows him.

 

 

 

 

 

 

TEMPLE COX CAPTIVE
BOLT SLAUGHTERING.
GUNS

Specially recommended and used by the RSPCA

THREE MODELS—ALL SILENT IN
ACTION

‘UNIVERSAL’ for all animals
‘SMALLS’ for all small animals
‘MARK 6’ for all animals. Designed for heavy

use in large Abattoirs and Freezing Works

TEMPLE COX DEVELOPMENT CO. LTD
HIGH STREET, BROMLEY, KENT

 

 

 

 

 

 

A ll inquiries to

Telephone: HOP 2476 (3 lines)
Telegrams: HOBSON, SEDIST, LONDON

 

 

(9333?.ng

HOBSON & SONS
(LONDON) LTD

154-164 TOOLEY STREET
LONDON BRIDGE S.E.l

Manufacturers of

UNIFORM CLOTHING
CAPS HELMETS LEATHER
BELTS POUCHES etc. etc

Gold and Silver Laces
Embroideries of every
description for ALL
UNIFORMED SERVICES

PATTERNS OF CLOTH
and ESTIMATES
will be forwarded free of charge

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

December 195 7

THEANIMALWORLD 141

 

THE DOG ON THE MOOR

How can I touch your heart, O Man,
As you pass so coldly by?
Do you not hear my voice by day,
And by night—don’ t you hear me cry?
With the sweet, spring turf of the moors
around,
Here I am tethered night and day.
On one little patch of muddy ground,
Denied all work or play!

The lads on their bikes ﬂash quickly by;

The sheep go grazing side by side;

Birds move freely across the sky,

And only I am tied
When evil mists creep up the Dale
And darkness closes around—
Oh, my loneliness aches in every bone,
For I’m chained to a stake, and all alone,
While you sleep warm and sound.

When you sit by your cheery ﬁreside,
With domino, drink or dart,

Would you think of the little black speck On the
moor,
Alone with its breaking heart?
Use my intelligence, use my strength,
For love I’d follow you any length. .
Just let me work and be your friend—. ’ , .3
But do not tether me months on end! ‘ Q
E. MORRlsorqgl
Note: Miss Morrison, an RSPCA supporter in
Ripon, wrote these verses in the summer of 1956,
when the plight of a dog tethered as a guard on
the moors of North Yorkshire was the subject of
correspondence in the Northern Echo. The airing
of the subject in this newspaper had the happy
result of causing the dog’s release. Miss Morrison
says that motorists who carelessly leave farm
gates open on country roads are really responsible
for the plight of these dogs, which are stationed
in these lonely ‘outposts’ to prevent the animals
straying Gates carefully closed would mean that
the dogs were not needed for the task. Mrs
Harvey, Council Member, who sends the verses,
adds that careless hikers not less than motorists
are sometimes to blame for gates left open. .

 

GOD’S TROUBADOUR

St Francis was a troubadour at heart, and he
became God’s troubadour. So said Alderman the
Rev Prebendary L. J. B. Snell, Council Member,
when he preached the sermon at the special
service for animal lovers at St James’ s Church,
Piccadilly, London.

Soloists at the service were Miss Monica
Bransom and Mrs Hester Howard, both of whom
were thanked by the Prebendary, who also
thanked the Vicar for lending the church and the
organist and choir for their services.

Lord Merthyr, Chairman of the RSPCA
Council, read the lesson. '

Several Council members were among the
large congregation.

 

OPEN ARMS

‘This is what we have all been looking forward
to for months, and we welcome you with open
arms’ was the enthusiastic greeting accorded to
one of our lecturers on her arrival at a junior
school recently.

Since the last report 144 lectures were given in
schools in Westmorland, Monmouthshire, Cara
marthenshire, Devon, Faversham area, Tunbridge
Wells, Farnham, Chichester, Blackburn and the
London area. A Children’s Library in SE London
was also addressed.

Fortyveight new Animal Defender groups were
formed; 399 children joined the Headquarters
Group.

OIL POLLUTION

Progress towards solving the problem of oil
pollution of the seas is reﬂected in an announce—
ment by the Ministry of Transport and Civil
Aviation that ten countries including ﬁve with
tanker ﬂeets of not less than half a million gross
tons have now ratiﬁed the International Convena
tion for the Prevention of the Polluion of the
Sea by Oil which was drawn up in London in
1954.

This is the number required to make the Cone
vention effective and, in accordance with Article
XV, the Convention will come into force on
July 26 next year.

The main effect will be that ships registered in
Convention countries will be prohibited from
discharging persistent oils within certain sea
areas. In general these sea areas extend fifty miles
from any coast, but the Convention also pre—
scribes a very extensive prohibited zone for the
protection of United Kingdom coasts. British
ships registered in the United Kingdom are
already prohibited from discharging persistent
oils in this zone, which extends far into the
Atlantic.

This is a most important development in the
campaign to protect the beaches from oil pollu»
tion and one that is warmly welcomed by the
UK Government which took the initiative in
calling the 1954 international conference.

The ten countries are: Belgium, Canada, Den—
mark, Federal Republic of Germany, France,
Mexico, Norway, Republic of Ireland, Sweden,
United Kingdom.

 




December 1957 THE ANIMALWORLD 137

 

PlE IN THE SKY

Hanging from a tree, out of reach of unwanted guests, is the birds’ Christmas
cake. Miss W. Sewell, of Loughton, Essex, who sends the picture, gives the
recipe for the ‘cake’: 2 lb. rough fat, g lb. canary seed, % lb. coarse oatmeal,
l large white or brown loaf cut into cubes. Roast the fat, place all other items
in a big ‘hotpot’ or deep casserole, pour in the melted fat and chopped-up
crisp bits and thoroughly mix together and press down to make a solid mass.
Stand to cool and harden. Then place receptacle in hot water to loosen the outer
portion of the ‘cake’, turn on to a tray and drive two strong skewers through
from the top till they are ﬁxed in the tray. Otherwise the bigger birds will pull
the ‘cake’ on to the ground.

Miss Sewell makes three of these in the winter if the weather is cold: Christmas,

 

 

 

New Year and the “birds’ wedding day” l4th February.

 

SATELLITE PROTEST

Immediately news was published of the Russian
intention to send animals into outer space,
RSPCA Headquarters sent this letter of protest
to the Ambassador in London:

‘It is with the greatest concern and regret
that members and supporters of the RSPCA
read in current newspaper reports that it is
proposed that the next artiﬁcial satellite
launched by the Soviet Union will carry
animals in order that their reactions to space
ﬂight may be studied.

‘If these newspaper reports are correct,
I would wish to convey to you, on behalf of
the members of this Society, the strongest
possible protest against the suggested ex—
posure of animals to what can only be
described as a terrifying experience. May
I request most urgently and earnestly that
animals be not so used.’

This letter of protest bore the signature of the
Chief Secretary. The Society, in previous years,
protested against the use of animals in atomic
and similar experiments by America and Great
Britain.

SPUTNIK II

In spite of protests an announcement burst on
the world on the 3rd November to the effect that
a dog- had been sent on a new Russian satellite
circling on an orbit 900 miles above the earth.
Almost before the announcer finished his state—
ment the RSPCA began receiving protests and
the Chief Secretary, within twentyrfour hours,
sent this letter to the Soviet Ambassador in
London:

On behalf of our members and supporters in
this country and abroad, I am writing to register

the strongest protest against the action of the
Russian Scientists in sending a living animal into
space.

In my letter of the 8th October last, I did urge
that no living animal should be so used. It is to be
deeply regretted that so splendid a scientiﬁc

achievement should have been marred by expos—

ing an animal to unknown hazards and to every
likelihood of acute suffering.

I would ask that you be good enough to bring
this protest to the notice of your Government,
and to acquaint them with the concern felt by
animal lovers everywhere.

 

SPACE TRAVEL

Macclesfield Branch had a stall at Macclesﬁeld
Agricultural Show and organized a Gas Balloon
Race. The winners travelled as far as:

Castelfranco in Miscano, Benevento, Italy.
Herzogenburg, thirtyrﬁve miles west of Vienna.

Dvor pri Zulemberku, Yugoslavia, sixty miles
NE of Trieste. '

 

ABANDONED

The charming picture showing the two abanv
doned puppies in the November Animal World
recorded an incident in the Surrey Sutton and
District Branch. The Inspector who cared for the
puppies was Senior InSpector Reed.

 




 

3*" -
,

at?“

 

 

Botticelli, Mystic Nativity, a.detail, reproduced by courtesy of the Trustees, the National Gallery, London

Christmas Eve, and twelve of the clock,
“Now they are all on their knees’.

We pictured the meek mild creatures where
They dwelt in their strawy pen,
Nor did it occur to one of us there

To doubt they were kneeling then.
‘The Oxen’, Thomas Hardy

 

 

 




December 1 95 7

THEANIMALWORLD 139

 

 

CATTLE TRAFFIC

Statements have recently been made suggesting
backdoor methods are being used to evade the
regulations introduced by the Government to
reduce the likelihood of suffering to cattle ex—
ported to the Continent for slaughter.

It will be recalled that the British Government
laid down certain conditions that must be ac—
cepted by receiving countries before it would
give permission for cattle to be exported to them.
The conditions provided, among other things,
that the journey after disembarkation should be
limited to 100 kilometres, and the cattle should
be slaughtered by methods comparable, from a
humane standpoint, with those employed in
Great Britain, and that there should be no re—
export. Western Germany, Holland and France
have accepted these conditions, and cattle are
going only to ports in these countries.

Unfortunately, these restrictions do not
apply to cattle exported for slaughter from
Northern Ireland; neither do they apply to
Eire, which is a foreign country.

It was rumoured that cattle which could not
go from England direct were being sent for rev
export to Northern Ireland and Eire.

Quarantine

The RSPCA has been closely watching the posi—
tion and can ﬁnd no evidence of cattle being
exported to Northern Ireland or Eire for re—export
to France or Italy. Ofﬁcial sources have pointed
out that there are rigorous animal health regula’
tions in both Northern Ireland and Eire that
would make a trafﬁc for re—export of cattle for
slaughter both unlikely and uneconomic. Anir
mals are quarantined as a precaution against the
spread of foot and mouth disease and this coupled
with the freight and handling charges would add
considerably to the price of the animals at
Continental destinations.

Although the introduction of special measures
by the Government has resulted in considerable
improvements and a reduction in the trade from
this country, the RSPCA is still of the opinion
that abolition of the trade is the only effective
way of banishing all likelihood of suffering.

The RSPCA does not operate in Eire or
Northern Ireland, but is in constant touch with
animal welfare societies in those countries, and
earnestly hopes that the authorities will adopt
similar measures to those taken by this
country.

 

@bz'tuary »

With sincere regret we report the deaths of:
Mrs Copeland—Grifﬁths, member of Hereford
Branch Committee; Mr J. E. Mummery, Hon—
orary Treasurer, York Branch for many years;
Mrs Grose, Honorary Secretary, Crockham' Hill;
Miss M. K. Pearcey, supporter, Sheringham Aux,
for twenty—ﬁve years; The Rt Hon Lord Dunsany,
President, Kent West Branch.

LORD DUNSANY
A LITTLE TRIBUTE by Juliet Gardner

The world is a little dimmer at the loss of Lord
Dunsany whose position in literary life, as an
individual thinker and a great imaginative writer,
made emphasis in a materialistic age.

The Right Hon Edward John Mouton Drax
Plunkett, 18th Baron of Dunsany, of Dunsany

, Castle, in the County of' Meath, Ireland, died

31%d7céenly in a Dublin nursing home at the age
0 . .
Happy days of childhood are always associated
in my memory with the arrival of Lord Dunsany
at my home. There was something indispensable
in his generous, kindly presence which tranSv
formed the often confused phases of childhood

into a golden moment of time. Windows opened
on magical scenes. Fairy tales, entrancing draw—
ings, making a magic city under a spreading cedar
tree—these and so many other joys yield to no
other place in recollection.

Quite apart from his own genius as a poet,
Lord Dunsany possessed a genius of understand—
ing the mind of a child. For the value of sincerity,
the value of truth are the measurement of meana
ing a great man brings to life. As life passes this
can be said to be the true defence of a man’s
nature.

In his later years Lord Dunsany used his
immense gifts against cruelty to animals. As wit—
nessed by his play, ‘The Use of Man’; his many
poems, his association with the work of the
RSPCA; and his unceasing campaign against the
ridiculous fashion of amputating dogs’ tails.

The poet may die, but the beauty of his vision
remains.

 

He prayeth best, who loveth best
All things both great and small;

For the clear God who loveth us,
He made and loveth all.

s. T. COLERIDGE

 




 

 

 

 

December 195 7

 

THEANIMALWORLD 143

 

Worcestershire—West and Malvern Forthampton, animal
serv1ce, conducted by the Vicar, Rev M. O. Seacome.
Among those present were C01 and Mrs Salmon (Tewkesbury
aux hon sec).

Yorkshire—Barnsley and District Barnsley, coffee party,
attended by the Mayor and Mayoress, £30 13s.
Yorkshire—Bradford and District Bradford, autumn fair,
opened by Mr Harry Corbett (Television’s Sooty). The
Lord Bishop of Bradford and the Lord Mayor were present.
£300; AM (Branch).

Yorkshire—Bridlington, Malton and District Nalferton,
special service for Animal Sunday was held at Evensong at
the request of Mrs M. Robinson (aux hon sec).
Yorkshire—Harrogate and District Knaresborough, coffee
morning, Miss Wilson (committee member), £6 4s. 9d.
Yorkshire—York and District Elvington, garden party held
at Sunnymead, Elvington, Mrs F. Featherston, attended by
the Sheriff of York and His Lady, and opened by Mrs H. C.
Radcliffe. Prizes were presented by Mrs . R. Hardacre, £50.

 

Whisky, pet of Mr and Mrs Nemes.
Picture from Mrs Searle, Hon Sec,
Clapham South auxiliary.

 

CDLLECTTDNS

(We give wherever possible the place at which the collection was made and the name of the organizer or organizers).

1F LAG DAYS

5. (1.
Yeovil, Mrs W. M. Bennett, aux hon sec 83 14 8
Bristol, Mr C Croxton Smith, JP, branch hon
sec 632 4 IO
Cannock, Mrs Hale, aux hon sec . 41 13 6
Billingham on Tees, Mrs A Darbyshire, aux
hon sec .. 20 11 6
Golborne 12 5 6
Knighton, Miss M. A Goodwin, aux hon sec 15 4 O
Ryde, Mr Maurice Toms, aux hon sec 66 9 6
Binstead, Miss H. Parkes, aux hon sec .. 6 15 1
Seaview and St Helens, Lady Rouse Boughton,
aux hon sec . . 20 4 O
Hythe (Kent), Mrs Jude, aux hon sec 6O 0 0
Lytham, Miss D. Lord, aux hon sec 66 O 4
Droitwich Spa, Miss Hayward, JP, and Miss
Bartik. . 54 17 3
Trowbridge, Mrs E. Pitt, aux hon sec 100 6 4
Poole, Mrs Murray, branch hon sec 225 9 O
Cardilf City, Mrs H. W. Ainsworth, branch
hon sec 322 7 0
Bath, eMiss D. Doveton and Miss J. Philip
Jon 550 O O
Merthyr Tydﬁl, Miss G. Lewis, branch co
hon sec 103 18 5
Reading, MissE M. Wadland, branch sec 410 18 9
Bangor, Mrs Newing, aux hon sec 71 8 9
Thornton Cleveleys, Mrs Dobson Poole, aux
hon sec . 22 3 8
Barnard Castle, Mrs G Harris, aux hon sec. 35 7 4
Ringwood, Mrs Pelling, aux hon sec 52 19 8
Welshpool, Mrs Cookson, aux hon sec 66 18 8
Downham Market, Mrs E M. Hyner 39 4 O
Barnstaple, Mrs Hamilton, aux hon sec 103 16 O
St Annes (Fylde Branch) . 46 19 1
Oundle and District, Miss V. M. Carpenter,
aux hon sec .. 5O 18 8
Hull, MrW. Robinson, branch sec 487 18 0
Brighton, Mr W. C. Brown, branch sec (share
of joint collection) 231 17 6
Lindﬁeld, Sussex, Mrs Nelson and Mrs Ponder,
aux co hon secs 35 10 2
Liverpool, MrR. Clitherow, branch hon sec. 327 12 O
Rawmarsh (Rotherham Branch) 12 17 ll
Swallownest, Mrs Sampson 12 12 1
Kilnhurst, Miss Russell, aux hon sec 2 14 O
Bramley, Mrs Nixon 2 15 O
Swinton, Yorks, Mrs Reader 11 9 10

£ 5. d.
Thorpe Salvin, Mrs Dunne .. . 1 17 6
Thurcroft Colliery Collection, Miss Smith
and Mrs Mitchell 7 ll 10
Harthill, Mrs Wall, aux hon sec 12 11 6
Wath upon Dearne, Miss Arundel 15 9 6
Carmarthenshire County (excluding the Bor
ough of Llanelly) . 223 15 0
Cambridge, Mrs Scratton, branch hon sec
(joint collection) . 359 2 6
Bishop Auckland, Miss G. C Baines, aux hon
sec 62 5 7
Llanbradach, Mrs D Perry, aux hon treasurer 21 O 4
Neath, Mrs 1. Harrison, aux hon sec. 93 9 1
Gower, near Swansea, Miss B C. Brook,
branch co hon sec 31 19 1
Caerau, Glam, Mrs M Hunt, aux hon sec 11 O O
Blaengwynﬁ, Glam, Mrs Morris, aux hon sec 3 9 2
Bryn, Mrs Caswell, aux hon sec . 3 3 8
Biddulph, Mrs Biddulph, aux hon sec 56 9 3
Saltburn by the Sea, Mrs J. H. Hart, branch
hon scc .. 59 3 2
Ledbury, Mrs C. W. Turner, aux hon sec 44 8 1
Rugeley, Mrs N. R. E. Hudson, aux hon sec.. 5 14 2
Wentworth (Rotherham), Mrs Biddulph
Thomson, aux hon sec .. 4 O

DORSET COUNTY FLAG DAY

£ 5. d

Blandford 37 O 6
Shaftesbury 18 8 9
Wimborne 36 18 0
7 3

NORTHUMBERLAND WEST BRANCH
Flag Day appeals results reported by Mr M. A. Iley,

branch hon sec: £ 5. d
Hexham 111 5 O
Acomb 2 5 9
Allendale 13 3 1
Bardon Mill 2 11 1
Bellingham 11 15 10
Blanchland 2 14 , 7
Corbridge l7 5 10
Elsdon 111 7

Haltwhistle 13 10 10
Haydon Bridge

 




ANIMALTHEWORLD

THE .OFFICIAL MAGAZINE OF THE RSPCA

Vol LII No 12 New Series

DECEMBER I 9 57

PRICE FOURPEN CE

6s. per annum. Post Paid

THE TRAINER DOES HIS TURN

Another trainer of wild animals has told his story.
Once more, he is described as the greatest trainer
of all time; once more, the publisher’s blurb
acclaims him as ‘famous for his humane treat;
ment of his animals’.

Very early in the book, My Turn Next, pub—
lished by Museum Press (208 pp., with illustra—
tions, price 183.), Roman Proske, the author,
says: ‘I became a wild animal trainer when I was
still a boy because I loved animals’ (page 12).

Throughout the book, he writes with extreme
care, as if to avoid any hint of cruelty in actual
training. In this, he seems to have learnt from the
experience of others of his profession. That he
should be so careful to appear to be kind in his
training methods is in itself a tribute to humane
organizations, such as the RSPCA, who have
educated the public to demand the best possible
treatment of animals.

How far the writer’s claims to use kind
methods can be accepted may be assessed
when we notice his writing, on page 49:
‘There was the great Alfred Court of
France, a passionate wild animal lover and
experienced animal psychologist’. Readers
of Animal World will recall the review of
Alfred Court’s book; in it there was ample
evidence to support his own assertion (page
120, Wild Circus Animals, by Alfred
Court): ‘It was my turn to be brutal,
terribly brutal, and brutal I was.’

Steel Fork

We look in vain for such passages in Roman
Proske’s My Tum Next, though even here the
iron hand shows itself occasionally through the
kid glove, as on page 11: ‘The trainer, with whip
and steel fork. tried to separate the two antagonv
ists’, and page 10: ‘ “Use a steel fork,” Bender
shouted to an assistant to make himself heard

WWWWWW

 

above the band. “Use anything, but get them out
of here in a hurry”.’

Proske reminds us of a special problem to
which little attention has hitherto been given in
such books when he writes (page 11): ‘During
the mating season, even the most temperate of
lions can go out of his mind and attack man or
beast with explosive fury.’

We wonder what restraining or corrective
method is employed behind closed doors
when such incidents happen?

The RSPCA, in its objection to performing
animals, acknowledges the difficulty of finding
evidence of cruelty in the training, as training is

. done in private, and often abroad. It believes

that it can muster arguments strong enough to
convince thinking people that the training and
exhibition of wild animals for entertainment
purposes is wrong by presenting other aspects of
the trade for consideration.

The animals must spend their lives in unnatural
close confinement. The pathetic dernaturing of
constant captivity is revealed in this passage from
Proske’s book (page 163) (he is speaking of
animals who had got out of their cages in a 200
logical park): ‘Uncertain which way to turn in '
their new surroundings, the animals were still
milling around.’ (They were unaware what
freedom meant!)

Entertainment

Wild animals are said to be kept in cap—
tivity for educational reasons. The RSPCA
says that, on the contrary, captive wild
animals give false ideas of nature. What
value can such exhibitions as this have?
(page 187, My Turn Next): ‘By the end of
the summer, Congo was a well—trained
chimpanzee. She was exceptionally intelli—
gent and learned quickly. She rode a bicycle

 

E _ El {lbemz (Christmas to all ®ur 1Reabers

é“

 

WWWMWWWWWMMWWW

WWWMS

 

 




.Umm'H'Qis-ucﬁ

 

 

December 1957

THEANIMALWORLD 135

 

% Wumane Christmas

Undoubtedly one of the ﬁrst ways. of ensuring
a humane Christmas is to avoid attending shows
where trained wild animals are exhibited. Whilst
the RSPCA campaigns against this form of animal
exploitation, this is one tangible way of pro—
testing.

Supporters of the Society will know how to
answer the criticism of those who say that they
are going against the spirit of Christmas in avoid—
ing this form of ‘seasonal fun’. Caged captivity
and the timed performance do not promote the
fun of animals, who have a claim on our pity at
this time especially. The RSPCA believes that the
clowns and the skilful human performers could
supply all the pleasure we seek.

Gifts

A word of advice to kindly adults can do much
to spare animal suffering. Some uncle or aunt
will be certain that little Johnny would like a dog
or cat as a present. We can remind aunts and
uncles that animals are not toys; they should be
quite sure that the niece or nephew really wants
the animal, is old enough to look after it, and
will give it proper care throughout its life.
No wild animal or bird is suitable as a pet.

No animal should be given unless the home is
suitable.

If an animal is given, let it be accompanied
by an RSPCA pamphlet. The Society has a
pamphlet on the proper care of most animals
kept as pets. A stamped addressed envelope sent
with the request for any particular pamphlet to
the London Headquarters will bring a free copy.

The least possible change of routine will make
animals happy at Christmas time. Be discreet in
allowing animals to share the Christmas fare.
Fish bones, sharp chicken and turkey bones—as
well as all bones likely to splinter—should not be
given to them. They may be caught in the throat.
Sick animals should be taken to a veterinary
surgeon. Of course, there are RSPCA clinics for
the animals of needy folk.

Wild Birds
Christmas leavings provide a feast if spread on
the bird table. The birds need fresh water as
much in winter as in summer. Keep it free from
ice, but do not add chemicals for this purpose,
as it may do harm.

Set the table in a clearing, so that the birds may
be aware of Tibby’s inquisitive approach.

 

CAT THIEVES

 

Photo] [Courtesy The London Evening News
Regional Supt. Bacon with some of the cats at Greenwich
Court

Two men and a woman made nightly car tours of
London streets stealing cats, which they sold to a
dealer. They were each jailed for six months at
Greenwich.

They admitted stealing 208 cats, but a state

ment alleged to have been made by the woman
put the ﬁgure at 720.

She was said to have told the police that they
got 123. 6d. from a dealer for each cat and he then
sold them to hospitals for vivisection.

Accused with her were her husband and his
brother.

Prosecuting counsel said that one of the defena
dants told the police: ‘After a time I forgot they
were cats and all I saw was 125. 6d. on four legs.’

A witness said that at 11.15 pm. one night, he
saw a car pull up next door. A woman got out,
went to the gateway of a house, and picked up a
a cat. She put the cat in the car, got in herself,
and the car drove off.

The witness took the car number, and next
day the police called at the home of one of the
defendants. He saw a car in the front garden; there
were nine empty sacks behind the rear seat. Told
by the police ofﬁcer of his suspicions, the defen—
dant admitted having stolen cats.

Dealer

The name of a dealer was obtained, and the police
took from him nine cats, which were handed over
to the RSPCA for safe keeping at the Mayhew
Home, in London.

Twelve days later, the dealer was brought
before the Greenwich magistrates. He was said
to have sold cats for 253. each to universities,

 




 

ROYAL SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIhIALS
Founded 1824 Headquarters: 105 Jermyn Street, London. S.W.1

PATRONS

HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN
HER MAJESTY QUEEN ELIZABETH, THE QUEEN MOTHER
HER ROYAL HIGHNESS PRINCESS ALICE COUNTESS OF ATHLONE
HER ROYAL HIGHNESS PRINCESS ARTHUR OF CONNAUGHT

VICE-PRESIDENTS
SIR MALCOLM SARGENT, HON LLD, DMUS, FRCM, FRSA
THE EARL OF SHAETESBURY, KP, PC

 

THE COUNCIL

Chairman: THE RT HON LORD MERTHYR, DL, TD, JP
Vice-Chairman: *MRS WALLIS POWER, JP

 

 

AGlUS, THE REV. DOM. AMBROSE, 0513, MA GARDNER, HON. JULIET *PRITCHARD,MRS D.
AILWYN, THE RT HON LORD *HARVEY, MRS J. W., MA *RATIRAY, R. F., FSQ, MA, PH.D
‘ALLIEERT, MRS HOBHOUSE, J. s. ESQ. RISELEY, MRS R. c.
*ALSOP, ALDERMAN A. J., FRCA, ICIS, JP HOWELL, BASIL P., ESQ, MBE *RIECK, H. H., ESQ
ANDERSON, L. K., ESQ., MRCVS, DVM. *HUNTER, MISS SIBLY, W. A., ESQ, MA, JP
BERTIE OF THAME, THE RT HON THE VISCOUNTESS LEE, MRS E. M. SNELL, ALDERMAN mp: REV PREBENDARY L. J. n.
BRANSOM, MISS L. G., FRSA LLEWELLYN, THE REV CANON LEONARD, L.TH. MBE, TD, HON.CF (HEREFORD)
BYWATER, H. E., ESQ., MRCVS lOCKWOOD, LT-COL J. C., JP, TD *TAIT, MRS, MA
DORCHESTER, LT-COL THE RT HON LORD, OBE, JP LONGMAN, MRS W. *WALFORD, MRS DESBOROUGH
*DOWDELL, MRS M. R. MACNAGHTEN, MR A. WARDS, COLONEL, GT, CMG, OBE
ESTCOURT-OSWALD, MISS AGNES, MB (LOND), DPH *McPHAIL, MRS ALISON LETITIA, MB, CH.B *WHITE, HARRY, ESQ, FCA
(CANTAB), DOMS MOORE, LT-COL SIR THOMAS, BART, CBE, MP WILLERT, SIR ARTHUR. KBE
'EVANS. MRS DAVID, BA POULETT, THE RT HON THE EARL *WINCHESTER, F. J., ESQ, FCIS. FSS
GALWAY, THE DOWAGER VISCOUNTESS

*Denotes Branch Representative

 

OFFICE BEARERS APPOINTED BY THE COUNCIL

Hon Treasurer—LT-COL J. c. LOCKWOOD, JP, TD Chief Secretary—JOHN HALL, ESQ
Deputy H9“ Treasurer—HARRY WHITE, ESQ, FCA Assistant Secretaries—D. A. L. CAMM, ESQ, BA
Hon Medlcal Ofﬁcer—A. N. CRAWFORD, ESQ, FRCSI ALLAN JOINER, ESQ

Bankers—MESSRS COUTTS AND co, STRAND, LONDON Legal Secretary—R. MURRAY, ESQ
Chief Veterinary Officer—MAJOR R. C. G. HANCOCK, use, MRcvs
Auditors—MESSRS VINEY, PRICE AND GOODYEAR, CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS
Telegrams—WHITEHALL 7177 Telephone—Whitehall 7 I 7"

 

 

 

 

R. SOP. Cer ?

 

 

 

 

 

FORM OF BEQUEST FOR NATIONAL WORK

To those benevolent individuals Who may Wish to become benefactors by Will to this
Society, the following form is respectfully suggested:—

‘1 bequeath to ROYAL SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY To ANIMALS, for the
m general purposes of that Society, the sum of £ ....... ..., free of all duties
payable at my death and the receipt of the Treasurer for the time being of the said Society shall
be a suﬁlcient discharge for such legacy.’ (If it should be desired that the legacy should be ex—

pended on some particular phase of the Society’s work, a direction to this effect may be added to the

form of bequest.)

 

l CAUTION
By the Act of 7 William IV and IVictoria, cap. 26, all Wills or Codicils must be in Writing signed by the

Testator, and attested by two Witnesses in the presence of the Testator and of each other.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

134

THE ANIMAL WORLD

December 1957

 

and skated like an expert . . . danced the
hula like a professional, and did a strip
tease that was sensational, to say the
least. . . .’

On the degrading effect on audiences of vulgar
exhibitions by unhappy trained wild animals, we
would quote from page 193: ‘It was at this
moment that Congo added something to her
routine. Instead of signalling for applause by
clapping her hands above her head, she substiv
tuted another movement. A thin trickle of water
emerged from the billowing pink clouds of tulle
above her knees and the trickle soon developed
into a heavy downpour. . . . Applause, screams
and yells ﬁlled the night club. . . . The manager
of the club was delighted. He wanted to know if
we could arrange for Congo to deliver a rain
storm at each appearance. . . .’

The truth?

Even the most cautious of apologists for per;
forming animal exhibitions can nod, as is shown
by the ﬁnal paragraph of the book: ‘Yes, we can
teach wild animals tricks, but there is one trick
that no trainer, living or dead, ever succeeded in
teaching them, and that is how to overcome the
nature that God gave them. You could educate
a tiger or a leopard until he graduated in philoso’
phy and he would still obey his inner compulsion
to hunt, to catch, to kill. It was for this, and not
for the arena, that he was created.’

And the preliminaries to the .trained exhibiv
tion? On page 34, we read: ‘These cubs . . . had

 

 

EDUCATIONAL?

A BBC Press release, describing a visit to
a zoo, explodes the argument that the sight
of captive animals has educational value.
It says:

‘Here visitors can see animals from
Africa and South America which would
normally be asleep during the day. Floodr
lighting by night and artiﬁcial moonlight by
day ensures that they reverse their normal
habits and are awake during the day when
visitors wish to see them.’

The attraction is that animals will be seen
reversing their normal habits—hardly a sight
to advance the education of visitors!

 

 

 

Illustrated right is one of the advertisements displayed
recently by the RSPCA in National Newspapers.

been crying for days for their mother, who had
been shot when they were taken captive.’
EDITOR

 

OXFORD INTRODUCES REFORMS

An immediate method of restricting the activities
of proprietors of travelling menageries is sug~
gested by a decision taken at Oxford. The City
Council has decided that no large animals shall
be exhibited in sideshows at the annual St
Giles Fair.

 

HARPENDEN

Harpenden Urban District Council, at a recent
meeting, decided that no bookings should be
allowed on Council owned lands by circuses
which include performing wild animals.

One Councillor is reported in the Press as
saying that the Committee’s decision was based
on the ‘ill—treatment they thought occurred in
transporting large animals in small cages’. It is to
be hoped that other councils will follow the
splendid lead given by Oxford and Harpenden.

 

A Grateful of misery

This week a troupe of tigers performs in one town. Next week the show
moves on. The beasts cannot complain. They are packed in cramped cages
and thus transported to their new destination. Every few days the story is
repeated, an it is but one aspect of the whole grim business of exhibiting
' performing animals. You can do something about
.. 4 it: by not attending shows in which trained
wild animals perform and by sending a
contribution to: The Chief Secretary,
RSPCA, (Dept. A.W.) 105 Jermyn
Street, London, S.W.I., to help
the campaign against performing
animals. You can become a
member of the Society
""""" by subscribing ,6 I
per annum or a
life member for a
l donation of J€20.

 
 
 
 
 
  
    
  
 
  
 
 
 
   

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

136 THEANIMALWORLD

December 19 5 7

 

g

mainly in the North of England, and to pharma’
ceutical laboratories. He was ﬁned £20 on each of
four charges of unlawfully being in possesion of
cats, knowing them to have been stolen and was
ordered to pay 255. in respect of each of the four
cats. He was found not guilty of ﬁve other
charges.

When the police called at the dealer’s premises,
he said he had some cats, but no stolen ones. The
police evidence continued: ‘On the premises in a
passage there were two tea chests, in each of
which were three cats, and three boxes, each con;
taining one cat. The boxes were fastened down.’

Four witnesses identiﬁed cats brought into the
court.

The dealer said that the nine cats in the boxes
were not going to hospitals, but to a university.
Later, he said six were going to a farm.

Appeal

The dealer appealed against the conviction. The
appeal was heard about six weeks later by the
London Sessions Appeals Committee. The Com;
mittee dismissed his appeal.

There was no doubt the cats were stolen, and
the dealer knew it, the committee said. He was
ordered to pay 25 guineas costs.

The dealer, in evidence, said he dealt in all
kinds of cats and had a licence. He advertised for
cats and had no difﬁculty in gettng them.

Note: The cats not identiﬁed have been placed
in good homes.

Charlie—a
stolen cat-—
goes back
home.

(Photo—courtesy
News Chronicle)

 

RSPCA APPROACHES HOME OFFICE

Following this prosecution, the Chief Secretary
of the RSPCA wrote a letter to the Home
Office:

‘Dear Sir,

Your attention will no doubt have been drawn
to the recent case where large numbers of cats
were stolen and were disposed of to hospitals for
experimental purposes. There is, of course, no
evidence to show that the hospitals knowingly

accepted stolen animals but the present position
would appear to be very unsatisfactory indeed
and is giving rise to considerable public anxiety.
Surely there should be some effective means
whereby hospitals and laboratories are able to
check on the source of supply and obviate any
risk of stolen pets being received? This Society
would urge that the matter be enquired into witha
out delay, with a view to the necessary safeguards
being imposed.’

To this the Home Office made the following
reply:

‘Sir,

I am directed by the Secretary of State to refer
to your letter of the 25th July about the recently
reported case of cat stealing, and to say that,
within the limits of the information available to
them, the police take all practicable steps to deal
with the stealing of animals and the purchase of
stolen animals; and for their part the authorities
responsible for the management of registered
laboratories do all they can to ensure that the
animals they buy are not stolen. Many of them
require a certiﬁcate of title from a dealer before
they will accept an animal from him. The Secre~
tary of State has a general responsibility for
administering the Cruelty of Animals Act, 1876.
This Act does not, however, impose any direct
control over the supply of animals for experia
mental use in laboratories registered under it.’

EXPERIMENTS ON LIVING ANIMALS

The foregoing reports give special interest to the
recent White Paper, giving the return of experi—
ments performed under the Cruetly to Animals
Act, 1876, during the year 1956.

The number of experiments on living animals
increased by 314,739 in 1956. The total was
2,790,940, compared with 2,476,201 the previous
year.

The number performed without anaesthetics
was 2,428,445. They were mostly inoculations,
external applications, modiﬁcation of diet or
environment, or administration of a drug or
toxin. In many such cases, it is stated, the results
are negative and the animal suffers no harmful
effects.

Cats, dogs, horses, asses, or mules were used
in 13,314 experiments, and of these 8,488 were
performed under anaestheisa throughout.

In cancer investigations 341 licensees carried
out 192,074 experiments, of which 39,642 were
performed under anaesthesia and 152,432 with—
out. The great majority were on rodents, and
those performed without anaesthesia involved
mostly external applications, injections, or ‘feed—
ing’ experiments designed to test for any possible
cancer—producing factors in foods or other sub—
stances in common domestic or commercial use.

 

 




 

138 \ THEANIMALWORLD

December 1957

 

 

THE RSPCA AT WORK

 

OCTOBER 1957
RSPCA INSPECTORS

1,872 Complaints of cruelty investigated.
1 Offender imprisoned.
59 Offenders ﬁned.
61 Persons guilty of minor acts of cruelty cautioned in writing.
692 Registered cautions were administered by Inspectors.

CLASSIFICATION OF CONVICTIONS

HORSES—Working in an unﬁt state 3
CATTLE—Conveying in improper manner 1
SHEEP—Conveying in improper manner, travelling by

lorry in an unﬁt state, etc. . . . 3
PIGS—Neglecting 2
COATS—Neglecting .. . . 2

DOGS—Neglecting, shooting and wounding, killing in
improper manner, unreasonably conﬁning in

motor car, etc. .. .. 18

CATs——Neglecting, allowing dog to worry, shooting and
wounding, etc. .. 9
RABBITS—Neglecting 2
FOWLs—Neglecting, conveying in improper manner 2
PIGEONS—Killing in improper manner... .. 2

WILD BIRDS—Exposing in receptacle exposed to inclev
ment weather, etc. 3

OFFENCES UNDER THE PROTECTION OF BIRDS ACT, 1954:
Conﬁning birds in small cages 2
Being in possession of recently taken birds 7
Shooting 1

VARIOUS OFFENCES:

Laying poison 7 1
Aiding and abetting in an offence 1
Infringement of the Slaughter of Animals Act, 1933 1
TOTAL NUMBER OF CONVICTIONS... 6O

—.—.

During OCTOBER 1957, Magistrates, at the request of the
RSPCA, disqualiﬁed SEVEN persons from owning a dog or
holding a dog licence. Disqualiﬁcations were as follows:

Two for 12 months: THREE for 5 years: TWO for 10 years.

Total number of COMPLAINTS from January 1st 21,549
Total number of CONVICTIONS from January lst 665
Total number of CAUTIONs from January lst 7,397

HEADQUARTERS CLINICS

No. of animals handled:
Cats 3,768 Dogs 4,320 Misc. 1,050 Total 9,138
No. of animals given emergency ﬁrst aid: 2,663

PUTNEY CONVALESCENT WARD

No. of animals handled: ;
Dogs 92 Cats 17 Misc. 2 Total 111 7%

NIGHT STAFF 11

No. of calls received: 1,187

No. of animals given emergency ﬁrst aid: 6

No. of animals treated by Veterinary Surgeon: 243

No. of animals rescued: 23

No. of inspection complaints: 28

Miles covered by ambulance in respect of urgent calls: 2,400

NORTH WALES UNIT

First-aid cases:

Cats 42 Dogs 80 Misc. 16 Total 138

No. of animals handled by Unit:
Cats 222 Dogs 144 Misc. 22 Total 388

No. of miles covered by Unit: 2,820

DEVON & CORNWALL UNIT

First aid cases:
Cats 46 Dogs 80 Misc. 7 Total 133

No. of animals handled by Unit: *
Cats 153 Dogs 100 Misc. 7 Total 260

No. of miles covered by Unit: 1,702

SOUTH WALES MOBILE UNIT

First Aid Cases:
Cats 65 Dogs 250 Misc. 23 Total 338

No. of animals handled by Unit:
Cats 154 Dogs 285 Misc. 33 Total 472

No. of miles covered by Unit: 1,206 ‘

AWARDS
CURRENT AWARDS UNDER REVIEW

RECORDS FOR 1956

_ INSPECTION
COMPLAINTS 26,508
CONVICTIONS 1,029
CAUTIONS 8,979

HEADQUARTERS CLINICS
No. of animals handled: 145,471

, NIGHT STAFF
No. of calls: 18,267




 

 

 

14,0“ _ THE ANIMAL WORLD

December 1957

 

 

RSPCA ACHIEVEMENTS

DONCAST ER

The main. thoroughfare in the Cattle and Pig
Market at Doncaster, leading to the three loading
docks, has now been resurfaced with small grit,
so that the animals no longer slip and fall, as
happened all too frequently before the work was
carried out. It is largely due to the representations
and persistency of the Inspector that this reform
has been brought about.

BOLTON

After making urgent representations to the Auca
tioneers at; Bolton Cattle Market, Senior Inspec—
tor Faulkner has succeeded in having banned
from the Market immature, or unlicked calves.
Thanks to his efforts, a notice is now displayed
on the premises, informing farmers that these

very young calves will no longer be accepted
for sale.

WAKEFIELD

Senior Inspector Hawxwell reports that he has
persuaded the authorities to provide water
troughs for the sheep and pigs at Wakefield
Slaughterhouse—an innovation that was badly
needed during a recent heat wave. A new stunv
ning pen has also been installed.

AXMINSTER

Senior Inspector Pickett reports that all animals
are now under cover in Axminster Market, with
the exception of the store cattle. He hopes that
those creatures, too, will be given shelter in the
near future.

 

 

 

HORSE FALLS

RSPCA Senior Inspector R. H. McCready
adjusts the bridle of ‘Captain’, a five-year-
old draught horse, whom he helped to
rescue. The horse was being unloaded at
Temple Meads Station, Bristol, when he
fell between a wagon and a platform.

‘Captain’ suffered no serious injuries and

was soon ﬁt and well again.

 

QUESTIONS IN
PARLIAMENT
DOGS (QUARANTINE)

MR MARLOWE asked the Minister of Agriculture,
Fisheries and Food what experiments have been
made with inoculation or other veterinary meth—
ods as an alternative to quarantine for dogs
being brought here from abroad; and why no
steps have been taken to reduce or abolish
quarantine by the use of modern scientific
methods.

MR AMORY: It has been demonstrated in other
countries over many years that while inoculation
of dogs is a useful method of control where
rabies is endemic it cannot be relied upon to
confer complete immunity. An expert committee
set up by the World Health Organization has
expressed the View that countries free from
rabies should continue to prohibit the import of
dogs and cats or to subject them to a long period

of quarantine, preferably six months, at the port
of entry. I am entirely satisﬁed, so far as this
country is concerned, that to reduce the quaran—

tine period or to rely on inoculation would be an
unjustifiable risk.

HUMANE TRAPS ADVISORY
COMMITTEE (THIRD REPORT)

CAPTAIN KERBY asked the Minister of Agriculture,
Fisheries and Food whether he has yet received a
further report from the Humane Traps Advisory
Committee.

MR AMORY: Since its appointment in 1954, the
Committee have examined 174 traps and now
recommend three of them for approval for
use in rabbit holes and three for use against
small ground vermin.* ’

* The three traps recommended for use in
rabbit holes are: ImbraMark I, Imbra Mark II
and Juby. The inventor of the two Imbra traps is
Mr E. E. Sawyer, inventor of the RSPCA Sawyer
Humane Rabbit Trap.

 

 




 

 

 

 

142 THEANIMALWORLD

Squirrel
Tommy, guest
with 2
Mrs Salmon,
Tewkesbury

 

 

BRANCH NEWS

(Where a function is organized for the raising of funds, we give,
wherever possible, the place where held, the type of function,
and the name of the organizer or organizers, followed by'the
sum raised. The letters AM indicate annual meeting; they are
followed by the word branch, or the name of the auxiliary, and
an indication, where possible, of the person presiding and of
officials presenting reports; other information is given as
necessary).

Bedfordshire Bedford, Photographic Exhibition at Granada

Cinema, £23 16s. 6d.

Birmingham and District Edgbaston, RSPCA Service, con-

ducted by the Vicar, the Rev J. E. Miller. Those present

included Mr R. Evans (branch vice-chairman), Mr G. James

DuRose (branch secretary) and Mrs DuRose, and Mr P. A.

Turley (aux co hon sec). .

Burton-on-Trent Hanbury, whist drive, Mrs E. M. Ford

(aux hon sec), £9 17s. 3d.

Cleveland and Tees Side South Bank, jumble sale, Mrs
Harrison, £18 14s.

Coventry and District Balsall Common, meeting of local

WI, addressed by Mr K. Tolhurst, £5.

Crowborough, East Grinstead and District East Grinstead,

jumble sale, Mrs Gasson (aux co hon sec), £55.

Cumberland—West Moor Row, jumble sale, Mrs Stevenson

(aux hon sec), £45.

Denbighshire—-East, and Rhyl AM (Branch). Mr Ernest

Black (branch chairman) presided. The speaker was Mr K. S.

Tolhurst.

Devon—North Bideford, whist drive, Mrs Walters, £5.

Essex—North-West Branch Braintree clinic, jumble sale,

Mrs Cooke (aux hon sec) and Mrs Cowan (The Hedinghams

aux hon sec), £5 for clinic funds.

Glamorgan—Mid and Port Talbot Port Talbot, jumble

sale, Miss Rees (hon sec), £13 10s.

Gloucester——Mid Bazaar, Mr S. Hill (branch chairman),

£111 5s. 3d.

Hampshire—New Forest Lymington, jumble sale, Mrs

Harfleet, £27 16s. 11d.

Hampshire — Southampton and District SOuthampton,

branch committee members attended a special service for

the blessing of animals at St Mary’s.

Hants and Surrey Border Fleet, Sale, Mrs Fosbery (aux

hon sec), over £235 proﬁt.

Herefordshire Hereford, animal service, Alderman The

Rev Prebendary L. J. B. Snell (Council member, branch

chairman and hon sec).

Isle of Wight Northwood, animals’ service, conducted by

the. Rev H. E. Strudwick. Those present included Mrs

Haigh (branch president), Mrs Hawkesworth (West Wight

North aux hon sec) and Mr Maurice Toms (Ryde aux hon

sec .

Kent—Canterbury and District Rummage sale, £38.

Kent—Dover and District Walmer, jumble sale, Miss Auld

(aux hon sec), £35.

Kent—Medway Towns—Sittingbourne Division Jumble sale

and market, Mrs M. Draper (div hon sec), £44 9s. 3d. '

Kent—Mid, Maidstone and District Chiesman’s Restau-

rant, whist drive, proﬁt £21 10s.

London North East Clapton, Rushmoor Road Primary

School, presentation of RSPCA book to Colin Atwell by

Mr W. R. Pooley (branch hon sec) for rescuing a cat. Mr

December 1957

J. A. Blazeby (branch hon treasurer) and Mr C. R."Davies
were present.

Nottingham and Notts Rankshill, whist drive, £13 9s. 9d.
Oxford Bring and buy sale, Mrs Lund (branch hon sec)
and Mrs Lofting (assistant sec) held at the Haigh Room,
48 Woodstock Road. Excellent tea provided and served by
Mrs George. £28.

Preston and District Preston, coffee morning, Mrs H. Kay
(hon sec), approximately £125.

Reading with Berks, Hants and Oxon Border Reading,
animal service conducted by the Rev A. Clifford Wilson.
The Rt Rev The Lord Bishop of Reading gave the address.
Collection £12 5s.

Shefﬁeld Pets Corner at the Sheffield Trades Exhibition,
£107 17s. 3d.

Shropshire Lawley County School, animal service, col-
lection £2 15s. 3d.

Streatham, Brixton and Clapham Clapham, ﬁlm show, Mrs
Williams (Clapham North aux hon sec) and Mrs Searle
(Clapham South aux hon sec). Canon Leonard Llewellyn
(branch chairman and Council member) attended; Mr
Hardman spoke. Mr J. Keeling, Youth Organizer of Wands-
worth Borough Council, supplied equipment. Collection
£3 7s.

Streatham. Mr C. R. Davies addressed a gathering of the
women members of Trinity Presbyterian Church.
Suffolk—East, and Ipswich Hollesley, whist drive, Mrs
Charles (aux hon sec), £20.

Surrey—Guildford and District West Horsley, animal
service, Mrs Bainbridge (aux hon sec). Those present in-
cluded Mrs Merritt (Guildford aux hon sec).

Guildford, sale, Mrs Merritt (aux hon see), over £70.
Surrey—Kingston, Surbiton, District and South Middlesex
Jumble sale, Mr A. Bell, £240 (made up to £300 by a private
donation from Mr A. Bell).

Surrey—Sutton and District Sutton, bring and buy sale,
Mrs Allibert (Council Member) held at her house, £36.
Sheilm, sale, Miss K. Sanders, £92 15s. in aid of clinic
un s.

Torquay and South East Devon Torquay, Ideal Homes
Exhibition, Mrs Dodds (hon sec), £33 16s. 3d. (collected by
Susie and Lucky).

Westmorland Kendal, cinema collections (£36) and coffee
morning (£18), Mrs Coward (aux hon sec).
Wiltshire—Salisbury and District Animal service held at
the West doors of Salisbury cathedral, conducted by Canon
Cyril Jackson.

Windsor, Eton, Slough, Staines and Uxbridge Sherry
Party, Lady Dorothy Palmer and Miss M. Ormrod (Windsor
aux hon sec), held at Hadleigh House by kind permission of
Mr and Mrs A. Macnaghten, £35.

AM (Branch) Mrs Bourne—May (branch chairman) presided.

 

RSPCA—‘Rain or Fair—Always There’: a float entered
by Sittingbourne Division in the local Carnival

 

 

 




 

 

 

144 THEANIMALWORLD

December 1957'

 

M

£ 5. d.
Humshaugh 2 6 6
Horsley 3 11 7
Langley. Z 14 O
Matfen 2 16 O
Mickley'... 5 5 10
Oakwood 5 19 5
Otterburn 4 O 1
Ovingham 2 15 7
Prudhoe 18 5 11
Riding Mill 4 13 9
Rothbury 28 6 7
Slaley 7 4 0
Stocksﬁeld 19 13 11
Wall 3 16 6
Wark 3 7 0
West Woodburn 2 14 1
£300 7 10
HOUSE TO HOUSE
£ 5. d.
Durham S and N Yorks, Miss E. Barr, branch
hon sec 21 7 9
Sandwich, Miss G. M. Woodruff, aux hon sec 32 1 1
Helston and Kerrier, Mrs Dransfield, aux hon
sec 55 6 3
Alne, Mr W. Dale, aux hon sec 44 10 0
Liskeard, Mrs Hoar, aux hon sec 24 16 0
Troon, Mrs Dunn, aux hon sec 2 2 3
Old Windsor, Mrs Cleghorn, aux hon sec 24 5 3
. Polperro, Mr G. Libby, aux hon sec 25 1 0
Uley, Owlpen and Nympsfield, Mrs Grigg 15 10 0
Radcliff, Miss M. R. Stevenson, aux hon sec 37 11 9
Whiteﬁeld, Mrs Schoﬁeld, aux hon sec 74 10 0
Leeds, Mr A. O. Futrell, branch hon sec 3 11 4
Newhaven, Miss Budd and Mrs Horlock, co
aux hon secs 36 2 0
Milborne Port, Mrs Sherman—James, aux hon
sec 14 1 4
Rolleston, Mrs Archer, aux hon sec 36 0 0
Cromer, Mrs Wingate—Saul, aux hon sec 32 8 1
Maltby, Mrs Scott, aux hon sec 28 12 5
Alstonﬁeld, Nurse Betteridge 4 5 7
Saffron Walden, Mrs Richardson, aux hon sec 20 16 4
Yarm, Mrs A. Kitson, aux hon sec 4 l7 3
Devizes and District, Miss R. Goddard, branch
hon sec 13 18 0
Burtonvon—Trent, Mrs Bird, branch hon sec... 256 6 3
Barton—under—Needwood, Mrs Robinson, aux
hon sec 6 1 1
Midway, Mrs L. C. Deakin, aux hon sec 12 19 8
Newhall (supplementary), Mrs Perry, aux hon
sec 3 5 3
Stretton, Mrs Ramsden, aux hon sec... 3 8 3
Walton-on—Trent, Mrs H. M. Morrell, aux
hon sec 2 8 10

BEGGING DOG BOX

SHERINGHAM, NORFOLK: In fourteen weeks, £35 125.,
collected near the seafront this summer.

POLPERRO: About £26 during summer. (See also Spaniel
box collections.) »

LLANDUDNO: On the Pier, £200 in ﬁve months; box outside
Smiths during August and September, £75.

SPANIEL DOG COLLECTIONS

,BASINGSTOKE: Messrs]. & M. Stone, £36 135. 7%d., between
July 25 and October 7.

ASHEORD (KENT): In a greengrocer’s shop (placed at the
shop front when weather permitted), £11 165. 7%d., in
one month.

MINEHEAD (SOM): Winsor Hotel, Minehead, £74 75. 2d.
during the season, being placed at the gate of the hotel
each day.

POLPERRO: About £62 during the summer season. (See also
Begging Dog box collections.)

SITTINGBOURNE: Doorway of property belonging to the
hon secretary, £12 75. 10d., in one month.

BRIXHAM: Outside a shop, £58 195. 10d.

TORQUAY IDEAL HOMES EXHIBITION: From October 2 to 12,
£16 145. 11d.

LEDBURY: £7 19s. '

GLOS—MID BRANCH: At the Bazaar, £2 18s. 1d.

LIVERPOOL: Six boxes in- nine months, £368 135. 6d.; one
box at a Shoe Store, January 1, £190 155. 5d.

HUNSTANTON: Since Whitsun, at a shopping bazaar,
£54 85. 5d.

BLACKPOOL: At the Opera House, £10 193. in a week.

SILVERSTONE COLLECTION: Buckinghamshire area—organ—
ized by Mrs Stacey, £20 was collected. Northamptonshire
area—organized by Mr Hinton, £8 45. 6d. was collected.
This was on the occasion of the International Motor
Racing at Silverstone arranged by the British Racing
Drivers Club and the Daily Express.

A Novel Scheme

‘Please send 4 Giraffes, 2 Camels, 4 Dogs—2 Park Drive,
1 Player, 1 Woodbine. Block receipt will do. Donations
await receipt and recipients of gifts will pay carriage.’

‘Herewith 300 packets, more will be sent shortly’.

‘Gifts received safely, enclose PO for 155.’.

Does your mail consist of such entries? This is just a
sample of that received by Mr A. Dawkins of Dover, who
for nearly six months has Operated a ‘Carton animal gift
scheme’ whereby he gives a dog, giraffe or camel, made from
cigarette packets, to anyone giving him a donation of 25. 6d.
for branch funds. Results £11 123. 6d. to date and still
going strong.

Mr Dawkins states he is deeply indebted to all those who
supply the used 10’s size cigarette packets from which the
animals are made as he used nearly 500 every week, his
own contribution being about three hours making each
animal.

The Branch acknowledges with many thanks the work of
all who are helping to make this scheme a success.

RSPCA FILM NEWS

The Society’s ﬁlms were sent to the following places for
showing recently:

West Bromwich, Clapham, Sale, Doncaster, Kenley,
Liverpool, Stroud, Cardiff, Harlescott, Swanscombe, Tet’
tenhall, Slough, Bradmore, _Bromsgrove, Brixton Hill,
Royton, Exeter, Wealdstone, Bradford, Edinburgh, Devizes,
Shalford, Braintree, Broadstairs, Leyton, Banbury, Holy’
well, Peterborough, Skegness, Horncastle, Ashford, Itch—
ingﬁeld, Wingham, Lincoln, Salford, Lymington, Mon—
,mouth, Shrewsbury, Port Talbot, Boston, Darlington,,
Leeds, Burgess ’Hill, High Wycombe, Folkestone, Merst—
ham, Arnold, Dublin, Enﬁeld, Fishpool, Preston, Milland,
Wallingford, Cambridge, Capel—le—Ferne, Rochdale, Led—
bury, Great Yarmouth, Alford.

RSPCA BIRD FUND

An appeal is made to supporters interested in
bird welfare who will be willing to make up saler
able gifts, such as knitted, sewn and embroidered
articles; materials will be provided if necessary.
Please apply to: Hon Secretary, RSPCA Bird
Fund, 105 Jermyn Street, London, SW1.

 




 

 

\
\

l
\

SIMPIEA

\

CAPTIVE BOLT PISTOL
FOR ALL. ANIMALS

ACCLES AND SHELVOKE LTD ' BIRMINDHAM ' 6 ‘ ENGLAND
5456

FLAG DAY
GOODS

PLASTIC BADGES

LIST 0N APPLICATION
THE UNIVERSAL BUTTON CO. LTD.

1-9 Birkheck Street, Bethnal Green, LONDON, E.2
’ Telephone: BIShopsgate 5750 Telegrams: ‘Unibutco Edo‘

URGENT!

Please help sick animals—a practical sugges-
tion: ' .

RSPCA Putney Hospital for Animals needs old
clean blankets. Please send parcels direct to the
Manager, RSPCA Putney Clinic and Convalescent
Ward, 6 Clarendon Drive, London, SWl5.

This Clinic also needs a wringer to help in keeping
blankets clean. Anyone caring to supply one is
asked to get in touch with the Manager at the
address given.

 

 

 

Jer. 8, 7

Patent Oﬂice Examining Staﬂ Magazine.
[VIammal Society of the British Isles.
presented in an engaging fashion.’ Lancet.

‘ . .
The reader can, If he Wishes

dumb animals.’ Church Times.

II Sam. 12, 3.

 

 

 

THE STATUS OF ANIMALS

IN THE CHRISTIAN RELIGION

By Major C. W. Hume
with marginal sketches by F OUGASSE

: - - a .Courageous, good, and in many ways delightfully heartening book.’ Nature.
Dazzling In Its simplicity, lucid, concise, deliberate.’ Veterinary Science (U.S.A.).

‘Aclmirably succinct, copiously documented, well ordered in its argument, embellished with delightful thumb-
nal sketches by Fougasse, and well prlnted; a wise, sincere, tolerant and kindly spirit moves through it.’

‘The author wears his learning lightly and the book is for enjoyment as well as instruction.’ Bulletin of the

‘Distinguished by clarity of thought, lack of sentimentality, and much scientiﬁc and theological learning

; . - . . o . . . o -
F ascmatmg 1n the extreme, espeCIally 1n Its cold analytical reasoning.’ Christian Herald.

, skip the diﬂicult part, interesting as it is, and come straight to Major Hume’s

moving and convincing plea for a wider recognition by Christians of their duty towards the whole world of

Published by and obtainable from

UF AW

(The Universities Federation of Animal Welfare)
7A Lamb’s Conduit Passage, London, W.C.I

Price 8s. 60'. No charge for postage

Ps. 104, 18

K 2
Zeph. 2, l4

 

 

 

 

Printed by Shenval Press, Simson Shand Ltd, London, Hertford and Harlow,and
published by John Hall for the RSPCA at 105 Jermyn Street, London, SW1

 




