 

”A #53?

August 1955

take out more than two hunting clients at a time,

parties being restricted to not more than four
guns.

Poisoned Arrows

Discussion at the conference revealed that poach—
ing was rife, pits and traps were used, and much
of the game in the Territory was killed by poisoned
arrows. By these means, an estimated 120,000
head of game was killed annually.

In some areas, lions are rapidly becoming
extinct. The conference discussed their preserva—
tion, and it drew attention to the spectacular
spearing of lions by ﬁlm companies and other
organizations. A recommendation was made that
the practice should be stopped.

Welcomed
The RSPCA, through its Division in Tanganyika,

has persistently advocated measures for the pro'
tection of wild life in Tanganyika and therefore
welcomes these recommendations. If they are
implemented, they will represent an advance,
though the RSPCA will renew its pressure for
even more radical reforms. Depredations are
being made upon the fauna of the Territory at
a disquieting rate.

HUMANE SLAUGHTER: USA

Senator Hubert H. Humphrey has introduced
a Bill in the United States Senate which will
require slaughter—houses to render animals and
poultry unconscious and insensible to pain
before slaughter.

Animal protection societies in America are
supporting the Bill, and Mr J. C. Macfarlane,
Livestock Conservation Ofﬁcer of the Massav

chusetts SPCA, recently visited RSPCA Heada

THEANIMALWORLD A ‘ 91

quarters, where he was given information on the
British methods of mechanical stunning in the
humane slaughter of animals. Whilst in England,
Mr Macfarlane made visits, arranged for him

by the RSPCA, to slaughter—houses.
SINGAPORE

A News—Letter received from the Singapore
Branch of the RSPCA shows that during the
ﬁrst three months of 1955 255 animals were
placed in good homes as compared with 94 for
the same period last year. -

A useful notice, says the letter, was published
in the Press just before Chinese New Year appeal—
ing to people to look after their animals whilst
crackers were being let off. No lost, and no more
than usual stray animals were reported after the
festivities—a great improvement on previous
years. -

TORREZAO FOOLER

British Guiana

(From a booklet, written by Chief Inspector
Claude F. Torrezao reviewing his 25 years of
service as Inspector of animals to the British
Guiana Branch of the RSPCA.)

Unfortunately, my name had become a terror
to owners and drivers and they resorted to many
subterfuges to dodge and deceive me when I had
to examine animals. Presumably with the aid of
a druggist they concocted a black powder made
into an ointment which was spread over the galls
and sores in such a manner that the inﬂamed
surface was difﬁcult to detect except under close

examination. This powder was put in small

packets and sold in the Stabroek Market at
4 cents each and was known among the men as
‘Torrezao Fooler.’

 

OIL POLLUTION FINE

The Master of the Danish oil tanker, Tankaberg,
was ﬁned £50 and ordered to pay a total of £32 23.
costs at New Romney Magistrates’ Court, when
he was found guilty of deliberately discharging
oil into the English Channel within the three—mile
limit.

One witness said he saw a six or seven inch
pipe hanging over the side of the Tankaberg, which
was then within two miles of Dungeness.

A thick oily substance was being pumped from
the pipe, and there was a trail of oil at least a
mile long behind the ship.

BROWN HARE HAS MYXOMATOSIS

It has been conﬁrmed that a British brown hare
killed recently at Wilton, Wiltshire, was suffer—
ing from myxomatosis.

' ' This Conﬁrms the ﬁndings in France that in

(rare instances the hare may be affected, but it is

emphasized that there is no evidence that the
disease affects other animals or human beings.

FISH

Aquarium and Pond Handbook, price ls. 6d.
(Published by Spratts.) This booklet is a very use
ful introduction to a fascinating hobby. It is
remarkably free of inaccuracies. We suggest} that
rain water is better than tap water (page 24) when
an aquarium needs ‘topping up’, since tap water
often contains a dangerous proportion of
chlorine, which can poison ﬁsh. , ‘
(This book can be obtained from booksellers,
from pet stores or direct from Spratts Ltd.)

 

CHRISTMAS CARDS AND CALENDARS

Please see the advertisement on the inside back cover.

 




V . (I (:51... uli. «Iw ‘xv‘l-.‘(

 

[John Gosse

’-
E
m
T
S
m
m
L
S
A
H
T
m
W

 

5-K

 




August 1955

 

 

STRANDED SWANS

 

THEANlMALWORLD 89

 

 

Photos by courtesy of Mather & Platt Ltd.

Two swans in the icy weather mistook the glass roof of Messrs Mather and Platt’s Park Works at Newton Heath, Manchester,
for a lake and landed on it. Workers threw up food for them but next morning they were still there. Swans have difficulty in
becoming airborne when not on water. RSPCA Inspectors were called out and they rescued the swans from the roof and

released them on a nearby canal.

 

Heroes’ Corner
DENNIS RISKED HIS LIFE

With the roar of an oncoming express train
ringing in his ears, Dennis Bridges, aged 16,
worked to release a dog trapped by the legs on a
railway line at Luton, Beds.

Dennis had been attracted by the cries of a dog
in distress, and, disregarding his personal safety,
he ran to help. He managed to release the dog,
who ran away unhurt, but Dennis was struck by
the train. Later, in hospital, he had the lower
part of his leg amputated. ‘It was worth it all
the same,’ he said.

For this rescue, undertaken at personal risk,
Dennis has received the RSPCA’S highest award,
the Margaret W7heatley Cross.

Head-foremost Over Cliff
The last of twelve stranded sheep was on a ledge

20 feet down a quarry face at Llanymynech Hill,
Montgomery, and the place was so narrow that
Mr J. Jones, the rescuer, could not secure a rope
round the animal. Undaunted, he was lowered
again by rope—this time head foremost, so that
he could use his hands with more freedom.

Swinging head downwards, he looked down a
sheer drop of 180 feet to the foot of the quarry.
In this nervearacking position, he managed to
rope the sheep, who was hauled to safety.

The other eleven sheep were rescued from
similar ledges by Mr H. Herbert and Mr L. Jones.

All three men, for their bravery, have received

the RSPCA bronze medal.

Fire !

Picking up a tarpaulin sheet and throwing it over
themselves, two young men—Ernest Dawrant and
Francis Murphy—dashed into a burning stable

 

 

 




 

 

August 1955

THEANIMALWORL’D _ 95

 

 

‘ TWO FLAG DAY HELPERS

Miss Audrey
Russell, famous
BBC ‘commenta-
tor, receives a
cheque from
bulldog, johnny
Goodbullet, at
RSPCA Head-
quarters on the
London joint
Animal Flag Day.
All his life ‘
johnny has been
collecting for
the Fund from
entrants for the
‘Bullets’ Com-
petition in
‘john Bull’.

FLAG DAY RESULTS

(We give, wherever possible, the place where the Flag Day was
organized and the name of the organizer or organizers.)

Dereham, Miss E. M. Hunter, aux hon sec, £66 55. 5d.;
Berwick—on—Tweed, Miss N. E. Turnbull, aux hon sec, £40;
Ledbury, Mr R. J. Turner, aux hon sec, £36; Farnworth,
Mrs B. Marshall, aux hon sec, £93 75. 6d.; Hawkshead,
Mrs Reed and Miss Tesh, £17 75. , Durham City, Miss
G. S. Wilkinson, branch hon sec, £110 185., Warrington,
MrsP. Fairclough, branch hon sec, £165 165. 6d.; Clevedon,
Mrs Willcocks, division hon sec, £91; Letchworth, Mrs
G. M. Wood, aux hon sec, £101 105. 3d.; Mexborough,
Mrs S. Bayley, aux hon sec, £58 15. 10d.; Goldthorpe,
Mrs Adams, £12 15. 3d.; Bolton-uponrDearne, Mrs Hunt-
ington, £6 65. 9d.; Dinnington, Mrs Haynes, aux hon sec,
£36 125.; Brinsworth, Mrs Hubbard, aux hon sec, £10 15. 6d.;
Treeton, Mrs Lowe, aux hon sec, £5 115.; Catcliife, Mrs
Brelsford, aux hon sec, £8 125. 10d.; Sunnyside, Mrs
Hanton, £2 145.; Eastleigh, Mrs Cook, aux hon sec,
£17 55. 2d.; Bishopstoke, Mrs Richins, aux hon sec,
£13 45. 7d.; Allbrook, Miss Wotton, £4 75. 7d.; Chandlers
Ford, Mrs Clark, aux hon sec, £21 105. 2d.; Shepton Mallet,
Miss K. Burnell, aux hon sec, £56; Keighley, Miss H. Stell,
aux hon sec, £59 175. 3d.; Llanwern, Mrs R. Snowball,
aux hon sec, £1 175.; Chorley and District, Mrs E. France,
aux hon sec, £272 55. 4d.; Bridport, Mrs M. Chown,
aux hon sec, £26 15. 2d.; Cirencester, £90 35.; Barnoldswick,
Mrs Gale, aux hon sec, £36 125. 1d.; Birkenhead and
Wirral, Mr W. H. Munday, branch sec, £439 8d.; Leigh,
Mrs Boydell, aux hon sec, £115 175. 2d.; Corfe Castle,
Mrs G. E. Roberts, aux hon sec, £9; Earby, Mrs I. Hodgson,
aux hon sec, £21 65. 8d.; Holbeach, Mrs J. Asprey, aux
hon sec, £30; Shaftesbury, Miss M. Tyler, £34 55.; Thraps—
ton and District, Mrs R. W. Coles, aux hon sec, £27 95. 8d.

 

HOUSE—TO—HOUSE COLLECTIONS

(We give, wherever possible, the place at which the house to-
house collection was made, and the name of the organizer or
organizers. )

Warlingham, Mrs D. E. Walters, aux hon sec, £6 125. 11d.;
Wickford, Mrs E. Wall, aux hon sec, £20 135. 5d.; Grantham,
Miss N. V. M. Pim, branch hon sec, £55 3s. 8d.; Mickleover,
Derby, Miss Wardle and Miss Laban, £49 175. 1d.; RamSv
bottom and Radcliffe, Mrs Hopkinson, branch hon sec,
£47 145. 8d.; Whiteﬁeld, Mrs Schofleld, £40 25. 3d.;
Titchmarsh, Mrs Curedale, aux hon sec, £2 135. 5d.;
Lingﬁeld, Mrs de Clermont, aux hon sec, £11 55. 4d,;
Leigh,sDorset, Mrs Hatch, £5 125.; Doncaster, Mr Morri—
son, branch hon sec, £9 Os. 11d.; Daventry, Miss Watson,

aux hon sec, £36 25. 6d.; Skelton, Mrs Roberts, aux hon.

'sec, £9 155. 6d.;Hor1ey & Salfords, Mrs Gibson, aux hon
sec, £49 175. 4d.; Guildford, Mrs Merritt, aux hon sec,
£65 75. 4d.; Leeds, Mrs Harvey, branch hon sec, £2 75. .,
Lichborough, Miss Grant, aux hon sec, £6 145. 6d.; Duns—
fold, Miss Caines, aux hon sec, £6 55. 6d.

The picture of Tillie at St
Mary’s Home comes from
Miss Channon, Rottingdean.

 

FLAG DAYS AND THE RAILWAY STRIKE

The Railway Strike has emphasized to the full—if any
emphasis were necessary—the desirability of placing orders
for ﬂag day equipment well before the date granted. Many
branches did this and it enabled Headquarters to weather
the ﬁrst ten days of the strike without much difﬁculty.
From then onwards, complications began to arise on two
counts:

1 Much equipment was immobilized since branches in
which ﬂag days had been held were unable to return
their surplus supplies.

2. No ordinary means of transport was available to send
out equipment for forthcoming collections.

The position was met by switching equipment from one
branch to another and supplying re, sealing labels for tins;
by branches drawing their own supplies from our stock at
the British Legion Poppy Factory; by one of the branch
organizers collecting stock himself and arranging for
delivery ,in branches where important collections were
pending. More difﬁculties were created since the calls on
our equipment at the British Legion Poppy Factory soon
exhausted our supply and special steps were necessary to
augment stocks. It so happens that we appear to have
weathered a very difﬁcult period extremely well, since the
loss of a ﬂag day collection is a serious ﬁnancial blow to
many branches

 

Kindness at the home of Mrs joan Stainer has transformed
this one-time skeleton-like stray into a beautiful cat.

 




 

ANIMALTHEWORL n

 

THE OFFICIAL MAGAZINE OF THE RSPCA

Vol L No 8 New Series

AUGUST I 9;;

PRICE THREEPEN CE

45. 6d. per annum. Post Paid

ACTIONS BEAR FRUIT 1

The ensuing quotations from the address given
by Miss Nancy Price at the RSPCA Annual
General Meeting show the inspiring character of
her message. *

I have no sympathy with those who see
cruelty and do nothing to prevent it. It is
difﬁcult sometimes but we should remember
that every protest, every action, every thought,

bears fruit.
*

The next point I would like to make is some;
thing that is so often asked of me. What is the
use of such and such a creature? That makes me
see red. Because, of course, they mean: What is
its use to Man? I always answer: What is the use
of Man to any other part of Creation?

It is a little hu’miliating for us to know that the

rest of Creation would be inﬁnitely happier with—
out us and that the rest of Creation is completely
independent of Man—completely. And yet we
are entirely dependent upon the creatures. It is
also rather dreadful to think that we cause more

suffering than any other species of life. Man may
be the ‘Lord of Creation’ but he should not be
the Tyrant that he is at present.

'A'

I deplore the fact that we do not let the birds
do their work in the fruit trees. My father had
the ﬁnest fruit in Worcestershire and he would
not have a bird touched, especially the bullv
finches, because he said they always go for the
gTUb. *

Our Chairman has mentioned that the birds
are nearest to my heart. So they are. We see the
labour and the patience of the birds in building
their nests. No onecan possibly describe it. Look
at the long—tail tits. They have sometimes in their
little nests 2,500 different little pieces, and it can
be destroyed by a blow.

*

I would just .like to say this. What would
this world be without an animal or a bird in
it? No birds in song, no cows, no sheep any—
where to be seen, no elephant or camel or

mule to help us. Nothing. Just ourselves on
this earth.

ANTI—CRUELTY LEGISLATION

‘A good deal done’

Speaking of the activities of Parliament during
1954, Lord Merthyr, Chairman of the RSPCA
Council, said he thought that members of the
Society would agree that, in the sphere of animal
protection, a good deal had been done.

He was moving the adoption of the Report for
1954 at the 126th annual general meeting of
the RSPCA at the Connaught Rooms, Great
Queen Street, Kingsway,‘ London. We could be
proud that this country was the first, he thought,
to put into legislative form the recommendations
of an international convention on oil pollution.

Inspectorate

Since the War, the Strength of the inspectorate
hadgradually increased._Counting all classes
of Inspectors, including Market Inspectors,
Probationers and others, the total at the end

of last year was 265, compared with a cor—
responding ﬁgure of 166 when the war ended.
Lord Merthyr contrasted the ﬁgure with the
number of 227 in the last year before the War.

Overseas, he said, the Society planned to
increase its efforts.

Colonel

R. M. Powell,
photographed
when making
the present-
ations to
Inspectors

 

 




RSPCA ONCE AGAIN OFFERS AN ATTRACTIVE RANGE

 

This study shows (actual size) one of the black-and-white card pictures.
For fully illustrated pamphlet, please complete the form below and send to:
R.S.P.C.A., 105 JERMYN STREET, LONDON, SW1

 

 

(Please complete in block letters and afﬁx 1%(1. stamp, which will
save R.S.P.C.A. expense)

 

 

Al’ﬁx
{Mr l-ﬁ—d.
NAMEﬁ’LBﬁI‘SSS Stamp
1
ADDRESS

 

OF

CHRISTMAS
CARDS

AND
CALENDARS

PRICES MODEST

—SALES HELP
R.S.P.C.A. WORK

ARTISTIC
ANIMAL STUDIES

CARDS

Black and White
2/3 box of six
Two or more boxes ordered,
2/— per box

Coloured

3/- box of six
Two or more boxes ordered,
2/9 per box

CALENDARS

Black and White
2/- each, or 21/— per doz.

(Suitable envelopes for cards
and calendars supplied free)

 

 

 




 

 

 

August 1955

THEANIMALWORLD , 87

THE RSPCA AT WORK

JUNE 1955
RSPCA INSPECTORS

2,731 Complaints of cruelty investigated.
1 Offender imprisoned.
54 Offenders ﬁned.
78 Persons guilty of minor acts of cruelty cautioned in writing,
902 Registered cautions were administered by Inspectors.

CLASSIFICATION OF CONVICTIONS
HORSES—Working in an unﬁt state, neglecting 3
SHEEP—Neglecting
DOGS—Neglecting, killing in an improper manner, in

juring with missile, etc . . . . . 15
CATS—Neglecting, shooting and wounding, terrifying by
roping and throwing into sea, etc. , 7
FOWLs—Neglecting, overcrowding, conveying in im—
proper manner
DU CK—Neglecting
MALLARD DUCK—Killing in improper manner
PIGEONS—Conveying in improper manner

UII—Ar—tr-t-k

SWANs—Injuring with missile

OFFENCES UNDER THE PROTECTION OF BIRDS ACT, 1954:
Conﬁning birds in small cages
Using traps
Taking
Shooting
Killing .
Taking wild birds eggs

JANE—INN!“

VARIOUS OFFENCES:
Laying poison ..
Aiding and abetting in offences

lr—ANr—t

Permitting in an offence

TOTAL NUMBER OF CONVICTIONS. . . . . . 55

During JUNE 1955, Magistrates, at the request of the RSPCA,
disqualiﬁed NINE persons from owning a dog or holding a dog
licence. Disqualiﬁcations were as follows:

ONE for 12 months; ONE for 2 years: FOUR for 5 years; TWO for
10 years; ONE for Life.

Total number of COMPLAINTS from January Ist .. 14,480
Total number of CONVICTIONS from January Ist 591
Total number of CAUTIONS from January Ist 5,225

HEADQUARTERS CLINICS

Number of animals handled:
Cats 4,552 Dogs 3,770 Misc. 960 Total 9,282

Number of animals given emergency ﬁrst—aid: 2,054.

PUTNEY CONVALESCENT WARD

Number Of animals handled:

Cats 28 Dogs 101 Misc. 1 Total 130

NIGHT STAFF

Number of calls received: 2,015.

Miles covered by ambulance in respect of urgent calls: 2,381
Number of animals rescued: 9.

Number of animals treated by veterinary surgeon: 278.

NORTH WALES IINIT

First aid cases:
Cats 16 Dogs 36 Misc 5

Number of animals handled by the Unit:
Cats 153 Dogs 105 Misc. 11 Total 269

Number of miles covered by Unit: 2,825.

Total 57

AWARDS

(Current awards under review)

RECORDS FOR 1954'

INSPECTION
.. 27,790
CONVICTIONS 872

9,657

COMPLAINTS

CAUTIONS

HEADQUARTERS CLINICS
Number of animals handled: 151,109

NIGHT STAFF
Number of calls: 18,849

NORTH WALES UNIT
Number of animals handled: 2,537

AWARDS
Silver Medals for Animal Life Saving 12
Bronze Medals for Animal Life Saving 65
Bars to the Bronze Medal .. 6
Merit Certiﬁcates for Animal Life Saving 12
Margaret Wheatley Cross... 4 1

 




 

August 1955

complaints of cruelty. The co hon secs’ report and inspector’s
report were adopted on the proposition of Chief Constable
W. J. Jones, seconded by Mrs Jones-Pierce. Mr J. Storey
read the balance sheet, on behalf of Mr Emile T. Evans,
branch hon treas. The President, Brig Gen L. P. Evans,

ofﬁcers and executive committee were re-elected on the'

proposition of Archdeacon Richard Ward, seconded by
Mrs Phillip Reynolds, Mr D. A. L. Camm, assist sec from
headquarters, addressed the meeting on the work of the
RSPCA and also mentioned the invaluable services of Mrs
David Evans, council member. A vote of thanks to the
Mayor and Mr Camm was prOposecl by the Rev J. E.
Meredith, seconded by Mrs Ivor Jones.

Chesterﬁeld and North Derbyshire His Grace the Duke of
.Devonshire presided at Cresswell aux annual meeting.
Miss Brenda Ingham, who was welcomed by the Duke, was
«elected aux hon sec for Cresswell. She is already the hon sec
for Clowne aux.

iClevedon Division At the division annual meeting Mrs
’Willcocks, division hon see, was congratulated and thanked
for her successful work during her ﬁrst year of ofﬁce. Wing
Commander Hillier spoke on the work of the RSPCA.
Cornwall—West Mr J. Morgan Hosking, branch hon sec,
presented his report at the branch annual meeting held in
Penzance. The hon treasurer, Mr W. L. Morton, reported
that owing to the police authorities not allowing them a
ﬂag day only £150 was sent to Headquarters. Inspector
Greenhalgh reported that he had investigated forty-eight
complaints of cruelty. W/Comdr Hillier spoke on the general
work of the RSPCA. Mr John James Davy of St Just, was
presented with an RSPCA silver medal for rescuing a dog
from an old mine—shaft.

Coventry and District The Lord Mayor of Coventry,
accompanied by the Lady Mayoress, presided at the branch
annual meeting and was supported by Col R. J. Cash, branch
president. The Chief Constable of Coventry spoke in support
of the RSPCA’S work. Wing Commander Hillier spoke on
the general work of the RSPCA. Mr F. Morris, branch hon
treas, and Mrs K. Mocatta, branch hon sec, presented their
reports.

Derbyshire—Derby and District Among those present at
the branch annual meeting held in the Albert Ballroom,
Derby, were: the Mayor, Councillor Alex Ling, the Lady
Mayoress; Viscount Scarsdale, branch president; Col H.
Rawlings, branch chairman and Comdr E. E. Sowter,
branch vice-chairman. Mr F. Lees, branch hon treasurer,
read the. ﬁnancial report. Mr D. A. L. Camm, assistant sec
from Headquarters, addressed the meeting on the work of
the RSPCA. Mrs R. A. Loten, branch hon sec, thanked all
members for their help during the past year.

Essex—Colchester and District Dr Estcourt-Oswald, branch
hon sec and Council Member, presented her report at the
branch annual meeting. Major Chapman addressed the
meeting on the general work of the RSPCA.

Essex—North-West Branch Mr Mathews, headmaster of
Earls Colne Primary School, with the help of Inspector
Cooper, organized a children’s pet show at the school.
Glamorgan—Mid and Port Talbot Mrs David Evans,
RSPCA Council Member, presented Mr Raymond Jones,
Mr William Hallett and BC. Reg Ewington with RSPCA
awards for their courage and humanity in rescuing animals.
Mrs Evans addressed the meeting on the general work of
the RSPCA. A vote of thanks to Mrs Evans was proposed
by the branch chairman, Mrs E. B. Newman. Mr D. Harold
Jones, branch president, in his address, appealed to members
for more funds. In the ﬁnancial report Mr E. James, branch
hon treasurer, outlined the cost of the clinic. Miss Rees,
branch hon sec, in her report thanked members for their
assistance, especially Mr Cyril Jenkins, hon auditor. Miss
Rees presented Inspector Cramp’s report in his absence.
Hants and Surrey Border Col R. M. Powell, branch hon
sec and vice-president of the RSPCA, reports that £8 was
collected for branch funds when the caravan attended
Aldershot Agricultural Show.

THE-ANIMALWORLD 93.

 

This picture was taken when Mr S. A. Warner, Didcot
auxiliary hon sec (extreme right), presented on behalf of
the auxiliary a lethal chamber to the Didcot Ordnance
Depot.

Hertfordshire—West Mrs Marshall Gott, Redbourne,
Harpenden and Wheathamstead aux hon sec, and com-
mittee organized a sale and raised £380 for branch
funds.

Hull and East Riding Senior Inspector Heath addressed the
Young Wives’ Fellowship, St John’s, Newland, Hull, on the
work of the RSPCA and a donation was given for branch
funds.

Kent—Ashford and District Inspector Coles helped to
judge in the pet show section at Kennington gala.
Kent—Canterbury and District Mrs Theobald, Graveney
aux hon sec, organized a bring and buy sale and raised
£10 18s. for branch funds.

Kent—Dover and District The Mayor of Deal (Ald Albert
Cavell) presided at the branch annual meeting which was
held in Deal Town Hall. Mrs Price, branch hon sec, in her
report, said that the branch had had a very successful year.
The hon treasurer, Mr R. H. Brown, reported that during the
year £650 had been remitted to Headquarters, and the balance
in the bank was £113 12s. 3d. Regional Supt Webb reported
that he had investigated 133 complaints of cruelty. The Mayor
presented an RSPCA framed certiﬁcate to Dover Lifeboat
crew for rescuing a dog and a token badge to Mrs Kelly for
her service during the past 26 years. Mr Roland Ampleford,
Parliamentary Organizer from Headquarters, addressed
the meeting on the work of the RSPCA. Votes of thanks
were proposed to the Mayor by the Rev A. Stanley Cooper,
branch Vice-president, and to Mr Ampleford by Mr W. S.
Lee, branch chairman. .
Kent—North-West The Gravesend Old Time Danc1ng Club
held a dance and presented £20 43. 10d. to the branch.
Mr W. J. Honess, branch chairman, and Mrs M. D. Honess,
branch hon see, were present. Reg/Supt Stephens gave a.
short talk.

* .

Mrs M. D. Honess presented ﬁve RSPCA K1ndness
Medals to children from Bexley Heath at Stoney Croft
School. Mr W. J. Honess and Miss James, Bexley aux hon
see, were present. A talk was given to the chlldren of the
school by Reg/Supt Stephens. . . .
Lancaster City Division Ex-Police Chief Superintendent
Hogg, branch chairman, took the cha1r at the DlVlleIl
annual general meeting held in the Town Hall, Lancaster.
Reports were submitted by Mr H. -de.B. Askew, D1V1s1on
hon treasurer, Miss E. Pattinson, D1v131on ass1stant hon sec
and Senior Inspector Oxley. Lt-Col Coventry addressed
the meeting on the general work of the RSPCA. Ofﬁcers
elected were: The Lord Bishop of Lancaster, the Rt Rev
A. L. E. Hoskyns-Abrahall, branch preSJdent, and Mrs C.
I’Anson, branch hon sec.

 




 

ROYAL SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS
Founded 1824 Headquarters: 105 Jermyn Street, London, S.W.l

P A T R O N S
HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN
HER MAJESTY QUEEN ELIZABETH, THE QUEEN MOTHER
HER ROYAL HIGHNESS PRINCESS ALICE COUNTESS OF ATHLONE
HER ROYAL HIGHNESS PRINCESS ARTHUR OF CONNAUGHT

PRESIDENT
PROFESSOR GILBERT MURRAY, OM, MA, DLItt, DCL, FBA

VICE-PRESIDENTS
SIR MALCOLM SARGENT, HON LLD, D MUS, FRCM, FRSA

THE EARL OF SHAFTESBURY, KP, PC COLONEL R. M. POWELL, DSO

THE COUNCIL

Chairman: THE RT HON LORD MERTHYR, DL, TD, JP
Vice-Chairman: *MRS WALLIS POWER, JP

 

‘ALLIBERT. MRs FREEMAN, PETER, ESQ, MP *RATTRAY, R. F., ESQ, MA, PH.D
‘ALSOP, ALDERMAN A. J., FRCA, PCIS, JP *HARVEY, MRS J. W., MA RISELEY, MRS, R. c.
ANDERSON, L. K., ESQ., MRCVS, DVM. HOGG, s. R., ESQ, Dso, MC *RIECK, H. H., ESQ
BERTIE OF THAME, THE RT HON THE VISCOUNTESS HOWELL, BASIL P. ESQ, MBE SHAFTESBURY, THE RT HON THE COUNTESS 0F
BRANSOM, MISS L. G., FRSA *HUNTER, MISS SIBLY, W. A., ESQ, MA, JP
BYWATER, H. E., ESQ, MRCVS LEE, MRS E. M. SNELL THE REV PREBENDARY L. J. 3., MBE, TD, JP
‘COOPER, ALDERMAN J. D., JP LOCKWOOD, LT-COL J. C., JP, TD *TAIT, MRS, MA
DORCHESTER, LT-COL THE RT HON LORD, OBE, JP LONGMAN, MRS w. *WALFORD, MRS DESBOROUGH
‘DOWDELL, MRS M. R. MOORE, LT-COL SIR THOMAS, CBE, MP *WHITE, HARRY, ESQ., FCA
ESTCOURT-OSWALD, MISS AGNES, MB (LOND), DPH POULETT, THE RT HON THE EARL WILLERT, SIR ARTHUR, KBE
(CANTAB), DOMS POWELL, COL R. M., DSO *WILLIAMS, THE REV. H. L.
‘EVANS, MRS DAVID, BA *PRITCHARD, MRS D. *WINCHESTER, F. J., ESQ, F05, F58

 

 

* Denotes Branch Representative

 

OFFICE BEARERS APPOINTED BY THE COUNCIL

Hon Treasurer—~LT-COL J. c. LOCKWOOD, JP, TD, MP Chief Secretary—ARTHUR W. Moss, ESQ, MBE, ACIS
Deputy Hon Treasurer—HARRY WHITE, Eso, FCA Assistant Secretary—D. A. L. CAMM, ESQ, BA
Hon Medical Ofﬁcer—A. N. CRAWFORD, ESQ, FRCSI Legal Secretary—J. HALL, ESQ
Bankers—MESSRS COUTTS AND CO, STRAND, LONDON Chief Veterinary Ofﬁcer—MAJOR R. C. G. HANCOCK, BSC, MRcvs
Auditors—MESSRS VINEY, PRICE AND GOODYEAR, CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS
Telegrams—WHITEHALL 7177 Telephone—Whitehall 7177

USED unuSIEIIIIIE womn ov‘III

 

HOUSE TO HOUSE COLLECTIONS

Branch 6 :are reminded that House to House Collections are
an excellent substitute for 0 Flag Day. These collections can
be made with tin, envelope or receipt book, and as the
.. RSPCA has an Order of Exemption from the Home Oﬁice,
f: ' it is not necessary to obtain a permit from the police for the
collection; it is, however, advisable to consult the local
police as to the date, in order to ensure the collection does
not clash with a similar eﬁort organized by another charity.
Headquarters will gladly give Branches further details on
application.

 

      

  

Celluloid Buttons

LIST ON APPLICATION

\I I
:\ ‘

*SIMPII..\\
SAIL. *-
. sun: WASHER

CAPTIVE BOLT PISTOL
FOR ALL ANIMALS

Iccus IND suuvoxt liD - BIRMINGHAM - 6 - ENGLAND
5456

      

1-9 Birkheck Street, Bethnal Green, LONDON, E.2
Telephone: BIShopsgate 5750 Telegrams: ‘Unibutco Edo’

‘ THE UNIVERSAL BUTTON CO. LTD.
|

 

 

I.




 

 

 

86

THE ANIMAL WORLD

August 1955

 

 

Lt—Col Lockwood, Hon Treasurer of the
Society, in seconding the adoption of the
Report, which was passed unanimously, drew
attention to the accounts.

An address was given by Miss Nancy Price,
whose speech is reported elsewhere in these
columns.

International Action

At the opening of the meeting, it was resolved
unanimously that a telegram be sent from the
meeting to the Chief Secretary, who had written
from hospital to express his regret at being unable
to attend the annual meeting—the first he had
missed for over forty years. The Chief Secretary’s
letter had been read to the meeting by Lord
Merthyr.

Mr Freeman (Council Member) discussed
those aspects of animal protection work that
could be advanced only by international action,
and other Council Members contributing to the

SECRETARIES,
Lord Merthyr, Chairman of the RSPCA

Council, welcomed delegates to the hon sec’
retaries’ conference at the Connaught Rooms,
Great Queen Street, Kingsway, London.

The Chair was later occupied by Mrs Wallis
Power, Vice—Chairman of the Council, and by
Mrs W. Longman, Council Member.

A letter from the Chief Secretary, regretting
his inability to attend the conference because of
illness and conveying his wishes for a happy and
successful meeting, was read.

Topics ~
Discussion ranged over a wide ﬁeld. Mrs Jesty
(Isle of Wight Branch hon secretary) introduced
the question of the export of horses and cattle
from Eire and Northern Ireland. The Parliaa
mentary Organizer, answering a question from
Mrs Jesty, made a statement about oil pollution.

IN

Award winners, left to right, are:
Inspectors Thelwell, Scott, Turnell and
McCready.

discussion on the Report were LtvCol Sir Thomas
Moore and Mr S. R. Hogg, who recounted a
harrowing experience when he was invited, whilst
overseas, to visit a research laboratory.

Awards
The Chairman called upon Col R. M. Powell, as

a Vice—President, to present Anderson awards to
Inspectors Scott, Thelwell and Turnell and the
Manor Oak award to Inspector McCready.

Topics raised when the Chairman invited
comments or questions on the Report were mobile
inspectors, the provision of inspectors in areas
unable to raise the ‘quota’ and the use of the
veterinary voucher scheme.

Mrs Longman, Council Member, proposed a
vote of thanks to Miss Nancy Price for an inspire
ing address, and Mr Stanley G. Watson, hon
secretary of Huddersfield Branch, moved that
Lord Merthyr be thanked for presiding and for
his wise and sober chairmanship of the Council.
Both motions were carried with acclamation.

CONFERENCE.
' Sale of Animals

Both Mrs Morrison (Doncaster Branch Chair,
man) and Mr J. Green (Manchester secretary)
expressed concern about the sale of small animals
in local markets and were invited to submit details .

In response to an inquiry from a delegate who
asked about the, possibility of hastening the
abolition of gin traps, the Parliamentary Organ«
izer reviewed the problem.

Various resolutions were discussed and those
passed will come before the Council for consideraa
tion. Those moving resolutions and amendments
were: Mr Stanley G. Watson (Huddersﬁeld
Branch hon sec), Miss McAuslan (Durham,
Hartlepools and District hon sec on behalf of
Mrs Kelly, co hon sec, North Tees Division),
Mr J. Green (Manchester and Salford Branch
sec), the Rev Prebendary L. J. B. Snell (Chairman
and hon sec of Hereford Branch and Council
Member). ' I '-

 

 




88 THEANIMAL WORLD August 1955

 

SHE TOOK HER MEDICINE .
AND . . .

jackie, the Alsatian pup, was taking
cod liver oil and malt one day and
enjoyed it so much that she swal-
lowed the spoon as. well.

Her mistress promptly took her to
an RSPCA clinic at Putney, London.
The X-ray photograph (right) soon
showed the RSPCA where the spoon
was inside jackie and in the picture
(left) we see an RSPCA clinic girl
assistant showing jackie the spoon
and reminding her never to swallow
another! jackie was soon well after
her operation and happy at home.

 

Photos by Keystone Press

 

 

   

i

 

RADIO AND RSPCA
RELIEVED SUFFERING

At sea, en route from New York to Tel Aviv, a
day out from Gibraltar, the Captain of the Israeli
ship Tappuz was worried about a horse passenger.

To the overseer of the Radio Station, Highv
bridge, he radioed:

Please advise treatment 2—5 year old
Arab stallion—since late morning will not
stand for more than 20 seconds—breathing
irregular while lying on side—ﬂexed and
kicks—neck stretched out—slightly wet
nostrils—given 2 oz. castor oil—2 oz.
linseed oil also colic remedy—no room to
exercise—the horse was not seasick during
7 days of voyage. Master, Tappuz.

The overseer telephoned RSPCA Inspector
Raggett of WestonvsupervMare and he obtained
advice from a veterinary surgeon. Within three—
quarters of an hour two instructions for treat—
ment were sent to the ship’s Captain.

Later, a message went inquiring about the
condition of the horse, and this gratifying answer
came back:

Horse recovered completely last night.
This morning horse normal and feeling
well. I am sending my deepest thanks for
your medical. Please let me know if it is

to be charged, horse’s owner will pay it

with pleasure. Master, Tappuz.

Asked by the Inspector about his fee, the
veterinary surgeon said there was no charge but
that a donation could be made to the RSPCA

Branch at Weston—super, Mare.

LONDON ESSAY COMPETITION

A happy day in the life of his pet was the subject
chosen by Alan Hildrew, aged 8, of Torridon
Primary ].M. School, Hazelbank Road, Catford,
SE6, and his essay has won for him the first prize
in the junior section of the RSPCA annual
London Essay Competition. In' the senior section
the winner is Patricia Fee, aged 13, of the Isledon
Sec. Mixed School, Hornsey Road, Holloway, N7.

In announcing the result, the RSPCA says that
the junior section is for children 8 to 12 and the
senior section for children 13 and over.

A total of 94,353 children in both sections.
wrote essays; they attended 485 LCC schools.
The entrance was the highest since the war.

Consolation awards numbering 1,005 books
and 981 certiﬁcates were given by the RSPCA.

NOT TOO BUSY

Busy as were pupils at one school preparing for
a jumble sale, on the following day an RSPCA
schools lecturer nevertheless found them eager
to listen when she went to speak on the care of
animals.

Since the last report was published lecturers
have visited 61 schools in Denbigh, Devon,
Haslemere, Putney, Tilbury, Newbury, Edgbaston,
Camberley, Woldingham, Dudley and Bromley.

New Animal Defender Groups formed num’
bered ten.

OBITUARY

With sincere regret, we report these deaths:

Miss Olive Genge, hon sec, Surrey—Purley
and District Branch, Mr H. L. Burniston, hon
treasurer of Worcester Branch for 30 years,
Mrs Thos Jones, a supporter.




 

 

 

 

90 THEANIMALWORLD

at Taylor Street, Liverpool, 5, where they had
been told that there was a pony.

Flames were licking every part of the building
and they found the animal lying on the ﬂoor.
They tried unsuccessfully to rouse him, but
he had already succumbed. Both men had
then to rush from the stable, or otherwise they
Would have been burnt alive.

For a gallant attempt at rescuing the animal,
they have received silver medals from the
RSPCA.

Another man who braved a fire for animals was
Mr R. H. Spicer, who rescued a dog and cat from
a shop at Meeting House Lane, Peckham.

Bronze Medals
Mr Spicer has received the RSPCA bronze

medal for his bravery, and other winners of this

August 1955

award are: Policevconstable J. M. Hughes, who
rescued a ewe trapped on a ledge on Penmaenbech
Head, near Conway, Caerns., Deputy Chief Fire
Ofﬁcer T. M. Roberts, who, hampered by dark;
ness and the presence of loose rocks, rescued two
sheep trapped on ledges at Llanfrothen, Snow—
donia, Assistant Divisional Chief Ofﬁcer A. R.
Bacon, Who was lowered into a deep well at
Radcliffe—on’Trent, Notts., to rescue a, dOg,
Inspector Baldock, Mr C. Cutts and Mr D. Cutts,
who rescued a sow and two piglets from a hole
caused by a subsidence at Forest Town, Mans—

ﬁeld.

One bronze medal has gone to Police—con—
stable C. A. C. Hattingh, Durban, who rescued
a dog from a ledge at lnchanga, Durban, South
Africa. Below the ledge on which the dog was
stranded, there was a 1,000 ft. drop.

 

PROGRESS IN TANGANYIKA
Gin Import Banned

Tanganyika has prohibited the import into the
Territory of gins capable of killing or capturing
any game animal. An exception is made where the
trap is imported under permit granted by the
Game Warden, and the Organizing Secretary of
the RSPCA Tanganyika Division, in reporting the
reform, adds that the ‘Game Warden will work
closely with the Division in the matter’.

The RSPCA Tanganyika Division has for a
long time campaigned against the use of these
traps, which are a larger and more powerful
version of the gin. In England, the RSPCA strives
ceaselessly to abolish the use of the gin for the
catching of rabbits. ‘

 
  

,’ 3 if,
p
#1:!
ﬁ

if
i:
'1

#41; / "1.3 ,
/ ill/’24” 7
//fl 1' 47/ '

.
=:.
.5.

. .r i

‘ --""”'“ﬁ“ll“‘"

H “‘I _ ax,-
:i-i‘t‘w‘

,‘
.~

Proposed Game Protection

News of a prospective humane reform in Tangana
yika Territory comes in the same report from the
Organizing Secretary.

Changes, says the report, are proposed in the
regulations governing the hunting of game. A
conference of Game Wardens and professional
hunters has recommended to the Tanganyika
Government that lionesses and cheetah should be
declared Royal game. This would prohibit the
shooting of them except in areas where they
became a menace to the population. Another
recommendation is that the licence fees for lion’
shooting should be increased.

Limitations (said the conference) should be
placed on the ‘bag’ of visitors who hunted for a
period of less than a month, and the price of a
‘full’ Tanganyika game licence should be in;

creased from £30 to £50. No white hunter should

  
  

This telling design, showing a
leopard caught in a gin,lwas pre-
pared at the instance of RSPCA
Headquarters and was used on
a poster with text in Swahili. The
poster was distributed widely in
the Tanganyika Division of the
RSPCA and helped to arouse
public indignation at the use of
the barbarous instrument.

ﬂ
%%




 

92 THEANIMAL WORLD

RSPCA ACHIEVEMENTS ‘

Travelling Superintendent Oxley recently visited
Southall Cattle Market, as a result of com—
plaints concerning the lack of covered accomv
modation for horses and pigs, and later inter;
viewed the Auctioneer. The latest report from the
local Inspector states that adequate provision has
now been made for the animals in question, so
that they will be sheltered from rain and sun
alike in future.

*

For many years past the RSPCA has been
trying to abolish the driving of cattle through
the streets of Watford and the suffering which it
involved. It is therefore pleasant to record that
the two ﬁrms responsible have at last agreed to
move all stock by cattle ﬂoat from Watford
Station to the slaughtervhouse instead of driving
the frightened beasts along busy thoroughfares,
as was the practice for so long. A correspondent
writing in the Watford Observer comments:
‘Thanks and all praise to Inspector Slater of the
"RSPCA for keeping up the struggle and at last
getting some results’.

A complaint having been received that live
frogs were being fed to snakes in the window of
a Leicester store and that children were crowd—
ing round to watch the gruesome spectacle,
Travelling Superintendent Goodenough was
asked to make immediate inquiries into the

August 1955

matter. He accordingly interviewed the owner of
the shop and warned him that it was an offence
to feed live animals or vertebrates to snakes, for
which he could be prosecuted. The man claimed
to be unaware of this and gave a solemn under’
taking that that he would not repeat the offence.

*

The Holyhead Inspector has arranged for
cinders and straw to be placed on the gangways of
all boats carrying cattle, as he had noticed that
many animals were in danger of slipping as they
disembarked. The boat crews have co—operated

fully with the RSPCA in this matter.

Upon hearing that a pony was being offered
as a prize in the Junior Express Painting Competir
tion, RSPCA Headquarters took the matter up
with the Editor of the newspaper and received
an assurance that the RSPCA would be consulted
before any pony was given away, with a view to
making certain that the prize winner was in every
way a proper person to have charge of an animal,
and capable of providing a satisfactory home.

Due to the initiative and courage of Inspector
Watts, public pounds have been established in
the Rhondda area, into which straying sheep can
be driven. The Inspector’s effort, which has met
with ﬁerce opposition from the farming coma
munity, has saved much needless suffering to the
animals concerned.

 

BRANCH NEWS

 

Photo by courtesy of C. W. Smithson

At an exhibition in Nottingham, the Sheriff shows interest
in RSPCA exhibits pointed out by Inspector Henderson.
Since this picture was taken, Mr Mitson, the Sheriff, has
been made Lord Mayor of Nottingham.

Balham and Tooting In support of the branch effort during
the London Joint Animal Flag Day propaganda photo-
graphs were displayed in the windows of the South Eastern
Gas Board, kindly lent free of cost for the purpose.

Barnet and District The branch caravan exhibition at the
Barnet Fair was a big attraction. Mr Wilshire, branch
hon sec, Mr C. R. Davies and Inspector Coomber were in
attendance.

Birmingham and District At the Branch Annual General
Meeting, held at the Grand Hotel, Birmingham, the Rev
Prebendary L. J. B. Snell, RSPCA Council Member and
Hereford Branch Chairman, spoke on the RSPCA’s work,
and there was a record attendance of over 250 supporters.
A bring and buy stall organized by Mrs Evans, Handsworth
aux hon sec, realized £93.

*

A pets’ day was organized at Windylow School, Solihull,
by Miss Bagnall, Principal of the school. Inspector Edwards
received £3 12s. which was the proceeds of a collection in
aid of branch funds.

Bristol and District Among those present at the branch
annual meeting were Mrs Desborough Walford, RSPCA
Council Member, the Mayor of Bristol and the Sheriff of
Bristol. Major Chapman gave an address on the work of the
RSPCA which gave encouragement to those present.
Buckinghamshire Mr Green, Headmaster Dinton School,
organized a pet show at the school and Mrs Atkinson,
aux .hon sec, presented the prizes. Inspector Gill judged the
entries.

Burton-on-Trent Inspector Jones judged pets at the annual
garden fete held at Rolleston.

Cardiganshire At the branch annual meeting held at the
Belle Vue Hotel, Aberystwyth, the Mayoress of Aberyst-
wyth, Mrs Rowlands, presented the prizes and certiﬁcates
to the winners in the Schoolchildren’s Essay Competition in
the Aberystwyth area. Miss Shirley Geddes-Smith and Mrs
W. J. Lewis, branch co hon secs, presented their report.
Chief Inspector Gilvarry said that he had investigated 70

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

94 THEANIMALWORLD

August 1955

 

At the Assembly
Hall, Waltham-
stow, Miss Sonia
Dresdel presents
an RSPCA collar
to judy, the col-
lie, who saved
two people from
drowning.

  
   

Leicester and South Leicestershire Major Chapman
addressed members present at the branch annual meeting
held at the Edward Wood Hall on the work of the RSPCA.
Loughborough and North Leicestershire Lady Crawshaw,
branch chairman, presided at the branch annual meeting
held in the Victoria Room, and was accompanied on the
platform by the Mayor (Ald L. W. Hull), the Mayoress
(Mrs Hilda Simmons) and Mrs C. E. Huston, who was the
hostess. The report of the branch hon sec (Miss Marion
Harridge-Cayless) was read by the Rev John Lyon; Mr S.
Caradine, branch hon treasurer, in his report, appealed for
more funds. Senior Inspector Paul reported that he had
investigated 89 complaints of cruelty. All the reports were
accepted on the proposition of the Ven W. J. Lyon, seconded
by the Rev J. G. Frostick. Major Chapman spoke on the
work of the RSPCA.

. *

Miss Marion Harridge-Cayless reports that the Rev John
Lyon, vicar of St Peter’s, opened a garden fete in the Vicarage
grounds. A vote of thanks to Mr Lyon was proposed by
Lady Crawshaw, branch chairman, and seconded by the
Mayoress, Miss Jean Cope. The sum of £87 ls. 5d. was raised
for branch funds.

Manchester and Salford Mrs Johnson, Northenden and
Wythenshawe aux hon sec, reports that the Whitsuntide
display at the Woodside Cafe, Northenden, raised £10.
Norfolk—Mid and Norwich Miss E. M. Hunter, Council
Member, appealed at the branch annual meeting held in
. the Assembly House, Norwich, for more help. The branch
chairman, Sir Richard Barrett Lennard, spoke. Major
Chapman addressed the meeting on the general work of the
RSPCA, and Chief Inspector McCluskey reported that he
had investigated 168 complaints of cruelty.

Norfolk West The Rev Dr D. W. G. Bartlett, branch
president, took the chair at the branch annual meeting held
in the Town Hall, Kings Lynn. Mrs Hardy, branch hon sec,
spoke on the work of the branch during the past year. A
credit balance of £14 was shown in the report of Mr H.
Arnold Jones, branch hon treasurer. Miss E. M. Hunter,
Council Member, addressed the meeting on the general
work of the RSPCA. Major Chapman spoke and Chief
Inspector Morrison presented his report.

Peterborough and District Mrs Hunt-Pain, Whittlesey
aux hon sec, reports that a lecture and club meeting held for
animal defenders was a great success.

Miss A. N. Hartley, branch hon sec, reports that whist
drives organized for branch funds by Mrs Crawley and
Mrs Burton raised £14 63. and £10 3s respectively.

*

Mrs Blanchﬂower, Wisbech aux hon sec, organized a
bowls tournament and garden fete in the grounds of Beech-
wood, Leverington, and raised £61 for branch funds.

Shropshire Mrs Brehany organized a whist drive and raised
£8 13s. for branch funds.

Staffordshire—North The branch annual meeting was held
at the Castle Hotel, Newcastle-under—Lyme, and Lady
Bagot, branch president, accompanied by her husband,
Lord Bagot, took the chair. In her address she praised the
work done by Mrs Berry, branch hon sec. Mrs Berry, in her
report, mentioned the good work carried out by Senior
Inspector Tuohy and Inspector Colgan. Col Coventry
addressed the meeting on the general work of the RSPCA.
Streatham, Brixton and Clapham Mrs Williams, Clapham
North, aux hon sec, and Mrs Searle, Clapham South aux
hon sec, organized a most successful jumble sale, in Clapham
Parochial School in the Old Town. The hall was crowded "
and the proceeds amounted to over £40. Patrol Ofﬁcer
Roberts rendered very valuable help, as did Inspector
Jones.

*

Mrs John and Mrs Butler very kindly did a day’s collect-4
ing for the RSPCA at Eastern’s Ltd, Brixton, and this.
brought in over £12.

Suffolk—East Coast, Constable Mrs Belcher, branch hon
sec, reports that the branch stand at Suffolk Show raised
£21 for branch funds. -
Surrey—East Alderman H. G. Daniels took the chair at
the branch annual meeting held in the Council Chamber,
Town Hall, Reigate, by kind permission of the Mayor. A.
report on the work of the branch during the past year was.
given by Mrs Longley, branch hon sec. Inspector Coaten:
spoke. Mrs Barbara Woodhouse, author, addressed the:
meeting on kindness to animals. Mr C. R. Davies was present.
Surrey—Purley and District The branch annual meeting:
was held at Beck Hythe by kind permission of Mr and Mrs.
Plincke. Mr Digby Weightman, branch chairman, took the:
chair. Mrs O’Gorman was elected branch hon sec. Mr C. R.
Davies addressed the meeting on the work of the RSPCA.
Sussex—East, and Hastings An exhibition organized for
the Bexhill aux by Mrs M. R. Dowdell, Council Member,
raised nearly £17 for branch funds after payment of all
expenses. As a result of the exhibition seven new members
volunteered to collect for the branch and 74 children joined
the Animal Defender Groups.

Warrin‘gton and District Mrs Beaman, Newton-le-Willows
aux hon sec, reports that a bring and buy sale held at the
home of Mrs Jones raised £25 for branch funds.
Westmorland Mrs V Wrigley, Windermere aux president,
reports that a bring and buy sale held at Rocklands, Beech
Hill, the home of Mr and the Misses Wharton, raised £63 2.9.
for branch funds. Miss C. Wharton, Windermere aux hon
sec, thanked the committee and all who supported the effort.
Worcestershire—West, and Malvern At the branch annual
meeting held in the Lyttelton Room, Malvern, Mrs Des-
borough Walford, Council Member, addressed the meeting
on the work of the RSPCA. Mrs A. Harrison, branch hon
sec, in her report, appealed to the younger generation to
come forward and help to carry on the work of the branch.
Reg Supt Best reported that he had investigated 101
complaints of cruelty. Admiral Sir William Tennant was
re-elected branch president and Mrs C. W. Dyson Perrins
Vice-president. Lt-Col Whatley was in the chair.

Photo by courtesy of the Berkshire Chronicle.

At Reading,
Peter Sayers re-
ceives the
Uniacke Mem-
orial Prize
from Her High-
ness the Princess
Marie Louise.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

August 1955 I

 

 

96 THEANIMALWORLD

LANDMARK £1 00

RSPCA begging—dog collection boxes supplied to the Rich-
mond High School for Girls have raised £100 for the
Durham—South, and North Yorkshire Branch. Reporting
this outstanding achievement, Miss Killingley (hon treasurer
of Richmond, Yorks, auxiliary) explains that the boxes were
ﬁrst placed in the school at the beginning of July, 1951. The
girls take them home in turn.

The achievement reﬂects credit on the pupils and on the
Headmistress, Miss K. M. Thornton.

LARGE BEGGING—DOG- BOX
COLLECTIONS

Guildford. Mrs Merritt, aux hon secretary, reports
£22 35. 2%d. was collected at the Guildford Ideal Homes
Exhibition in the large box.

Northenden. The Whitsuntide Display at the Wood—
side Café arranged by Mrs Johnson, aux hon secretary,
resulted in a £10 collection in the large begging—dog box.

Sutton. London Flag Day—per Inspector Reed——
£10 75. 6d.

‘ Westward Ho! Miss Capper, aux hon secretary for Bide—
ford, states that the large begging—dog box at Lewis’s Café,
donated by her in memory of her father, Captain Capper,
has during the short time it has been on display, raised over

£5.

STORE COLLECTIONS

Knightsbridge. Collection at Peter Jones Ltd., arranged
by Mrs Riseley and assisted by Mrs John, realized £7 11$.
Brixton. Collection at Easterns Ltd., organized and made

by Mrs John, brought in £12 165. 3d.

 

 

 

 

 

 

TEMPLE COX CAPTIVE
BOLT SLAUGHTER‘ING
GUNS

Specially recommended and used by the RSPCA

THREE MODELS—ALL SILENT IN
ACTION

‘UNIVERSAL’ for all animals
‘SMALLS’ for all small animals
‘MARK’ 6’ for all animals. Designed for heavy

use in large Abattoirs and Freezing Works

 

TEMPLE cox DEVELOPMENT co. LTD
HIGH STREET, BROMLEY, KENT

j

l

 

 

 

 

~11

 

 

ﬂ.

 

 

 

All inquiries to

Telephone: HOP 2476 (4 lines)
Telegrams: HOBSON, BOROH, LONDON

 

 

154-164 TOOLEY STREET
LONDON BRIDGE S.E.1

@MEE‘ORMS ’

HOBSON & SONS
(LONDON) LTD

Manufacturers of

UNIFORM CLOTHING
CAPS HELMETS LEATHER
BELTS POUCHES etc. etc

Gold and Silver Laces
Embroideries of every
description for ALL
UNIFORMED SERVICES

PATTERNS OF CLOTH
and ESTIMATES
will be forwarded free of charge

 

 

 

 

 

 




c/usz‘ W/Iaz‘ your cat needs
////

” \
’S ere/ii / ,1 WWW/y
SPRATT ran cArs   ' “II //l////l///iiii/////
Here’s the safest and cleanest way of feeding I / F/I SH//

Fish to Pussy. Just open a tin of Spratt’s Fish ’ /MW””I//7/
:« ﬁlial/ill};
and ready to serve; as nourishing as it’s tasty.

Now, even in the hottest weather, you can be sure . . . .,

that your Pet’s food is perfectly fresh. Spratt’s Fish The better SPRATT’S
keeps indeﬁnitely and is just what Pussy needs for > ‘ ’ wayoffeedingyourCat:—
health and contentment YOU’ll soon see the SOLD’IONLY; ’ For the ﬁrst meal of the day, feed Spratt’s Fish for Cats.
improvement in coat and condition when YOU ’ I“ TINS. For the second and main meal of the day, feed one part

Spratt’s Fish with twoparts Spratt’s Cereal Cat Food (sold
feed her this daily treat: all health-giving goodness '“ 9d- Packetsl- '" th'swayv YOU W'“ comP'ete'Y SUPP'Y

your cat’s needs and ensure a happy, healthy, lively Cat -
with a coat that speaks of tip—top condition.

SPRATT’S WW for CATS

If any difficulty in obtaining, please write, giving the name of your nearest shop, to Sales Dept. A.W.
SPRATT’S PATENT LTD., 4l-47 BOW ROAD, LONDON E.3

for Cats and give her the dish she’ll love - pure,
wholesome ﬁsh with nothing else added. Cooked

l

 

 

 

 

R. SOP. c. A.

 

 

 

FORM OF BEQUEST FOR NATIONAL WORK

To those benevolent individuals who may wish to become benefactors by Will to this.

Society, the following form is respectfully suggested:—

‘I bequeath to the ROYAL SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS, founded
1824, for the general purposes of that Society, the sum of £ .......................................... , free
of death duty and the receipt of the Treasurer for the time being of the said Society shall
be suﬂicient discharge for such legacy.’ (If it should be desired that the legacy should be BX’

pended on some particular phase of the Society’s work, a direction to this effect may be added to the

form of bequest.)

 

NOTE
By the Act of William IV and I Victoria, cap. 26, all Wills or Codicils must be in Writing signed by the

Testator, and attested by two witnesses in the presence of the Testator and of each other.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Printed by Shenval Press Simson Shand L
, , td,Lond ,H tf d dHl
publlshed by Arthur W. Moss for the RSPCA at 10;?ermgh gtrregtl,1 Long-023,833?

 




