 

 

 

NOTICE.

The Secretary respectfully requests subscribers,
members, and others, to transmit to the Society’s
Ofﬁce any extracts from newspapers or other publi-
cations which may come under their observation,
bearing upon the objects of the Society; and also
all BOOKS treating on Natural History, or of any
kind which may add to the value of the

LIBRARY OF THE SOCIETY,

thereby greatly aiding the Executive Ofﬁcers in
arriving at correct conclusions upon the, various

subjects which fall under their cognizance.

The donation of a ﬁrs t-class ENCYCLOPEDIA would

be much appreciated.

Oﬁce of Me Society,
No. 696 ﬁRQADWAY,

Corner of Fourth Street, New York.

N
I ‘3'

 

«’2




 

v)“
; \
‘.

\‘i

\

if.“ 1% \m‘ﬁx __~_—-_T=
M

I 15‘ . ‘.
' ,‘ 7,13%}?0:
\w

~. ”1“ :©

"\

mg‘ﬂ' " ' z
\ i» 5 1"". \K ‘ .’_

"1
x“; .«s
n‘ if“‘1|‘\i'
9 ' y n
lg. «“0
w \ Q

i

A, W I ‘2“

u g'Qt‘W ii“ ”
K I »‘ ilgi’giivi’it‘vé'.‘

- a ;‘

 

“ I, i m t. ~ ~ :13?" .—‘W>
we * ~=‘=‘~
K (i w“. a r'
/‘ F MM” , ‘\| 32".

 

[v
' ‘
n
="
“A

. 1

5

 

A" ,

w

(l .

f ,7. 7/
.E —.
lg

: ‘1

; ’Wlﬁé
«a; ,-— 7*
gym x,

 

Truck owned by the Society for the Transportation of Disabled Animals.

1 I I, ’E;$¢]§\ﬁl
i ‘1 ti '1 I

 

 




 

1870.

@gﬁgm a; @g maﬁa;

ELECTED AT THE

ANNUAL MEETING IN MAY.

 

 

ﬁrwibmt.
HEN RY BERG H.

ﬁicz-ﬁrzsihmta

JOHN T. HOFFMAN, JAMES BROWN.
HORACE B. CLAFLIN. GEORGE T. TRIMBLE,
HENRY W. BELLOWS. D.D.. WM. H. ASPINWALL.
BENJAMIN D. HICKS. MOSES TAYLOR.
PETER COOPER, MARSHALL O. ROBERTS.
Surging. @uasurzt.
N. P. HOSACK. JOHN B. MURRAY.

————-—-

@xzcutibz dbummittet.

JOHN D. WOLFE. E. GEORGE SQUIER,
FRANK LESLIE, N. M. BECKWITH,
TOWNSEND HARRIS, JAMES STOKES.

CHARLES H. MARSHALL, NATHAN C. ELY.

ALEX. VAN RENSSELAER, D. LYDIG SUYDAM.

ALFRED SCHERMERHORN, JONATHAN THORNE.

A. H. CAMPBELL, JOHN JOURDAN.
JOHN M. BIXBY.

 




 

yummm gamma.

 

ULYSSES S. GRANT, President of the United States, em
Qﬁicéo.

SOHUYLER COLFAX, Vice—President of the United States,
em aﬁcio.

JOHN T. HOFFMAN, Governor of the State of New York,
603 qﬁicio. ‘

A. S. BEACH, Lieut-Governor of the State of New York,

em oﬁcéo.

 

 

the (119mm gamma.

The Right Hon. the Earl of HARROWBY, President of the
Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals, London.

 

 

JOHN COLAM, Esq” Secretary for the Royal Society for
the P. C. A., London.

 

JANGELO AMEs, Esq, of Albany, N. Y.

 

 

 

 




 

CHARTER.

AN ACT to incorporate the AMERICAN SOCIETY FOR
THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
Passed April 10, 1866, by the Legislature
cf the State of New York,— Vol. 1., Chap.
469, Page 1019, of the Revised Statutes.

SEC. 1. That John T. Hoffman, Henry Grin-
nell, J. J. Astor, Jr., Geo. Bancroft, Shepherd
Knapp, James T. Brady, John A. DiX, Marshall
0. Roberts, James Brown, Horatio Potter, Thos.
H. Taylor, Erastus Brooks, Chas. P. Daly, Moses
Taylor, Geo. T. Trimble’, John D. Wolfe, Henry
W. Bellows, Peter Cooper, Francis B. Cutting, Wm.
H. Aspinwall, John Van Buren, Hamilton Fish,
Daniel Parish, John J. Cisco, A. Cakey Hall, John
McCloskey, Wm. C. Bryant, EdwardG. Steele,
Horace Greeley, Samuel B. Ruggles, James Lenox,
August Belmont, Moses H. Grinnell,Wm. H.Webb,
J as. Gallatin, Harper Brothers, J as. J. Roosevelt,
C. V. S. Roosevelt, AleX. Stuart, D. C. Kingsland,
J as.W. Gerard, Joseph P. Beach, Geo. T. Clyphant,
Oliver S. Strong, Henry Clews, Archibald Russell,
Benjamin R. Winthrop, John A. Kennedy, Daniel
Carpenter, Geo. W. Dilks, Chas. Addoms, Geo.

 




 
 
  
 

  
 
  
 
 
  
  
   
 
  
  
  
  
 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

  

viii.

Griswold, Simeon Draper, Robert L. Stewart,
Andrew Warner, Alex. T. Stewart, Daniel But-
terﬁeld, A. C. Kingsland, E. A. Washburn, M. S.
Beach, John D. Jones, Frank Leslie, Wm. Coven-
try H. Waddell, Chas. A. Bristed, Thos. C. Acton,
"Wm. McMurray, James Leonard, A. D. Russell,
Henry Bergh, all of the city of New York, and
such other persons as may be associated with them,
in conformity to this act, and their successors,
are hereby constituted and created a body corpo-
rate, by the name of “The American Society for
the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.”

SEC. 2. The ofﬁcers of the said corporation shall
consist of a president, ten vice-presidents, one see-
retary, one treasurer, an executive commitee of
ﬁfteen members, and such other ofﬁcers as shall
from time to time seem necessary to this Society.

SEC. 3. The foregoing ofﬁcers shall be chosen
from among the members of the Society.

SEC. 4. A library may be created for the use
of the Society.

SEC. 5. The said Society, for ﬁxing the terms
of admission of its members, for the government
of the same, for the election, changing, and alter-
ing the ofﬁcers above named, and for the general
regulation and management of its affairs, shall have
power to form a code of By—Laws, not inconsistent
with the laws of this State or of the United States,
which code, when formed and adopted at a regu-

 
 

 

 

 




 

ix.

lar meeting, shall, until modiﬁed or rescinded, be
equally binding as this act, upon the Society, its
ofﬁcers and members.

SEC. 6. This Society shall not, in its corporate
capacity, hold real estate exceeding in value, at
any one time, the sum of one hundred thousand
dollars. '

SEC. 7. The police force of the city of New
York, as well as of all other places where police
organizations exist, shall, as occasion may require,
aid the Society, its. members, or agents, in the en-
forcement of all laws which are now, or may here-
after be enacted for the protection of dumb ani-
mals.

SEC. 8. One-half of the ﬁnes collected through
the instrumentality of the Society, or of its agents,
for Violations of such laws, shall accrue to the bene-
ﬁt of said Society.

SEC. 9. The provisions of this act shall be gen-
eral, within the boundaries of the State.

SEC. 10. This act shall take effect immediately.

 




 

2

The chamber, or refectory, may die.

A necessary act incurs no blame.

Not so, when held within their proper bounds,
And guiltless of offence, they range the air,

Or take their pastime in the spacious ﬁeld.
There they are privileg’d. And he that hunts
Or harms them there, is guilty of a wrong,
Disturbs the economy of nature’s realm,

Who, When she formed, designed them an abode.
The sum is this. If man’s convenience, health,
Or safety interfere, his rights and claims

Are paramount, and must extinguish theirs.
Else, they are all—the meanest things that are—
As free to live, and to enjoy that life,

As God was free to form them at the ﬁrst,

Who, in His sovereign wisdom, made them all.”

 

 

And I know of nothing in nature, in reason, or in
revelation, which obliges us to suppose that the unalien-
ated rights of a beast are not as sacred and inviolable
as those of a man; or that the person who wantonly
commits an outrage on the life, happiness, or security of
a bird, is not as really amenable, at the tribunal of Eter-
nal Justice, as he who wantonly destroys the rights and
privileges, or injuriously takes away the life of one of his
fellow-creatures of the human race.

Here, perhaps, some of my hearers may feel shocked;
and will remember that horror and desperation which
arises in the hearts of murderers : Whereas, there is no
such consciousness of guilt, when one of the inferior ani-
mals only has been the subject of human cruelty.

 

 

 

But this difference, permit me to say, is owing to edu-
cation, and to certain contracted habits of thinking and
acting. Only let a person be taught from his earliest
years that it is criminal to torment and unnecessarily
destroy these innocent animals, and he will feel a guilty
conscience in consequence of any injury which he shall
do them, no less positively than if the injury were of-

 

 

 

 

f‘ / ‘ I " ‘ (Y “a
.. _. 7,, . A -. I... -_ .Iyw A,__““ . a 1
n 9 ‘ , A "r‘ A' l




3

fered to human beings. The force of reducation and
habit in setting aside natural principles is amazing and
almost incredible. Witness the cruelties and deaths in—
ﬂicted on African slaves; the indifference with which
in some countries they kill their children when they
become too numerous, and their parents, when they be-
come too old. The question, therefore is, not what can
be done without remorse of conscience, but what ougkt
to be done, according to the rules of justice and benevo-

len ce.

Does not the idle and mischievous boy, who, to gratify
himself, climbs the tree and wantonly destroys the habi-
tation and murders the family of an innocent sparrow,
as really transgress the rules of justice; and is he not as
really guilty of inhumanity as the unfeeling wretch who,
to make himself the secure and unsuspected owner of a.
little treasure which he has secretly removed, sets ﬁre to
his neighbor’s house? The crimes are of the same na-
ture, though the guilt may not be equally aggravated.
They both act on the same principle of selﬁshness and
disregard of the rights of others ; and the injury done is
the same in both cases—the destruction of an innocent
family. He, who is capable of entering into the feelings
of the distressed, cannot behold the injured and be—
reaved bird sitting alone upon the naked wall mourning
in funeral grief over the loss of all that was dear to her,
without shedding a tear of sympathetic sorrow.

Let me further illustrate this subject by reference to
the well-known sport, as it is called, and darling pas-
time, peculiar to persons of rank and fortune. A wild
animal is caught and carried to these persons and sold.

This creature, at a convenient season, is conveyed to
the middle of an extensive plain and set at liberty. Hav-
ing advanced to a certain distance, a kennel of hounds is

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

4

set loose upon the affrighted animal, whilst their more
savage masters pursue on horseback, until the game is
taken and destroyed. And all this is for no other reason
under heaven but to gratify themselves with the sorrow,
the terror and dismay, the fatigues, and screams and
death of the unfortunate creature !

What idea should we form of superior beings, for ex-
ample, whose employment, or rather whose amusement
it was by certain invisible means, to ensnare, worry,
fatigue and destroy the human race? Or, should they,
as we sometimes do with game cocks and other animals,
furnish them with instruments of death, and then contrive
means to bring them together, and excite them to vio—
lence only to make sport for themselves. Would they not
be execrated and detested by every feeling child of hu—
manity? How then, can we justify our own conduct
which is of the same complexion?

“ Do unto others as we would have them do unto us,”
is an admirable maxim, and approves itself to the reason
and conscience of every fair man and woman.

Whatever obscurity may surround other theories of
action, this is always clear and undeniable, and must ex-
tend to all sensible beings with whom we have any deal-
ings and in whose situation we are capable of imagining
ourselves to be. Let us suppose, therefore, as some have
supposed, that the doctrine of transmigration is true,
and that after this life we shall pass into the forms of
some of the inferior animals and move in their sphere,
how should we wish to be considered and treated by
those above us 2

Here there is left not the least room to doubt what our
feelings would be. Let this rule therefore be faithfully
applied in every case, and cruelty to animals would be

 




 

5

no longer indulged in. God has appointed to all his crea-
tures a certain sphere to move in, and has granted them
certain privileges which may be called their own. If we
judge impartially, we shall acknowledge that there are
the rights of the beast as well as the rights of a man.

And because man is considered the lord of this lower
creation, he is not thereby licensed to infringe on the
rights of those below him, any more than a- king or
magistrate is licensed to infringe on the rights of his
subjects. '

If the Governor of the Universe has given us liberty
to prepare animal food; or if the rights of these crea-
tures in certain instances interfere with the rights of
others, or with theirights of men so as thereby to become
forfeited, we may, in such cases take away their lives, or
deprive them of their privileges without the imputation
of blame. But how can any tender and amiable dispo-
sition dwell in that breast which is shielded against the
sharpest sufferings of an innocent being, for no other
reason but because it does not happen to be of our race?
A person may through sudden temptation, be guilty of
an act of injustice or cruelty which he habitually abhors
and disapproves. But certain it is that a single act of
cruelty committed upon the meanest animal, if it be jus-
tiﬁed, approved, and delighted in, is utterly inconsistent
with any tender sentiment of soul, or feeling of human-
ity. We are led on to the commission of crimes by slow
and imperceptible degrees. Wrong habits indulged with
regard to any particular practice, naturally gain strength
and lead on to kindred practices and indulgences. Why
should a man, for instance, who without the least re-
morse torments and destroys other creatures, hesitate to
do the same after such an apprenticeship, to any human
being that happens to stand in the way of his caprices

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

6

or ambition. I am pursuaded that the obduracy of heart
and unrelenting disposition which we discover in some
men, is owing in a great measure to the. early indulgence,
of such a disposition towards the inferior animals.

“ Ye, therefore, who love mercy, teach your children-
to love it too.”

The child that serves its apprenticeship to inhumanity
by tearing off the wings of a ﬂy, robbing a bird of its
nest, its eggs, or its young, or in any other manner makes.
a jest of the sufferings of a helpless creature, even
though it be done under the approving eye of its parent
—who erroneously regards it as a mere childish pastime
——when arrived at maturity, insults the poor, beats his
inferiors, and kills his enemy, and is but the same cru--
elty, intensiﬁed by age, which characterized his early
training. I

The Emperor Dometian, when yet a child, was wont
to amuse himself by plucking fowls alive—breaking the
legs of birds, and then letting them ﬂy away, delighted
with the thought that they could no longer stand and
must starve. And we know that these youthful vices
only foreshadowed that diabolical character which sub-a
sequently terriﬁed the world !

A Royal child, afterwards Louis XIII., once crushed
beneath the heel of his boot a little sparrow which had
taken refuge in his bosom ; seeing which the good King,
his father, Henry IV., exclaimed to his Queen, “ wife,”
said he, “ I pray that I may outlive that son, else he will
be sure to maltreat his mother.” And the prediction
was ”veriﬁed ; for that mother, Catherine de Medicis, died
in poverty and exile, inﬂicted by that same son. Peter
the Cruel, King of Spain, Peter the Cruel, King of Por-
tugal, Peter the Great, as well as cruel, Emperor of Bus--

 




 

H
l

sia, prepared themselves for the crimes which soiled their
reigns, by the little cruelties inﬂicted on inferior animals.

In short, do you chance to know a man within the Cir--
cle of your acquaintance, or a woman or a child that is
regardless of the sufferings of the brute creation, or takes
pleasure in oppressing them 2 if so, beware of that per-
son, for he is a bad citizen; she is a faithless mother,
wife or daughter; he is an unpromising youth.

“We may deny justice to these uncomplaining creatures,
but God watches over their safety. Without a special
Providence, not a sparrow falls to the ground; and
though He may not directly interfere to prevent the ob~
jects of His love from being treated with cruelty, He—
raises up for them protectors who administer His will ;
and although these cruelties take place in secret, with no
human eye to witness them, or human tongue to _de—-
nounce them, there is an avenger of the crime in the
perpetrator of them in himself.

The man who gives unrestrained license to his violent.
passions must inevitably make a miserable end. He that
ill-treats his horses is insensibly led to ill-treat his wife-
and children. Quarrels ensue; he takes refuge from
complaints to the public house, among companions as.
riotous and unprincipled as himself, and in whose lan-
guage and conduct he finds encouragement for his vio-
lent behaviour. Drunkenness goes hand in hand with
cruelty; and with drunkenness loss of character, degra-
dation, and the crimes which bring him at last within
the reach of the law. He is thus made the instrument
of his own punishment.

How natural it is, my friends, to consider these hum-
ble, dumb servants of ours as “ stupid beasts.” Notwith-
standing they continually furnish us with evidence, in.

2

 




   
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

8

many cases, of even superior intelligence to our own.
True, we term this instinct, and think no more about it;
but have you or I the instinct some of these creatures
manifest? We, for example, are very proud of our in-
vention of the compass, which points ever to the north,
enabling the mariner to accurately direct his way over
the waste of waters by night and day. But there are
the dog and the cat—without the aid of these instru—
ments—travel over immense distances, through forests
and over streams, in order to return to a belOved master
or ancient home. The birds, which at certain seasons of
the year pass over our heads, have no occasion for the
compass to direct them to the north or to the south; the
’ pigeon—which marksmen now-a-days use, most unnatur-
ally I think, as mere targets—returns to its native
country, bearing about its neck, when occasion requires,
the fatal announcement that the foundered ship is lost, or
the cheerful words of hOpe and call for rescue.

“ It was my lot,” says an ofﬁcer of the Christian com-
mission, “ to be at Gettysburg immediately after the bat-
tle, caring for the wounded. Among my memories of
that dreadful ﬁeld I shall always have the picture of a
lame horse in my mind. At the close of my last day’s
work, down in the orchard where the 11th corps was
so terribly cut up, I found a wounded horse; and a splen-
did creature it was. On his back was still the print of
the saddle—but who had been the rider—and where was
he now? There was a bullet hole , through the animal’s
ear, and one of his fore legs was disabled by a ball or
shell, and utterly useless.” He had evidently been in the
great ﬁght, had periled his life for men, and bled for lib—
erty, unhonored and unsung. For him there was not
even the cheap compliment of a mention among the
wounded—it was only a horse; and yet it may be that
his own ﬁerce speed, like the horse in “Sheridan’s Ride,”

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

  
 
    
   
  
 
 
    
  
  
 
    

’ grtrﬁarp's gepnrt.

———-———<§>——————-

In compliance with Section 3d, Chapter 6th, of
the By-laws, the Secretary respectfully submits
the following Report of the proceedings of the
Society during the year ending 30th April, 1870.

In presenting this, the 4th Annual Report to
the members, he feels assured that the perusal of
it will satisfy them the work of Mercy is steadily
progressing throughout our Country,

Intimately connected as the operations of this
and kindred Institutions are with the welfare of
the human race, it is not surprising that the sub-
ject should have taken such a ﬁrm hold on the
public mind, or that it should have attained a
degree of public favor seldom accorded to any
Institution.

In teaching mankind that the brute creation
have rights which should be respected, we not
only ameliorate the condition of these lowly crea-
tures, but sensibly advance the condition of our
own race, morally and physically.

In reply to those who say our energies might be
more proﬁtably employed in ameliorating the con-

 




 

11

dition of our own race, we say, that when the
. latter are oppressed, they have the power to re-
dress their wrongs; not so the brute creation; they
are the slaves of our race, silently ministering to
our necessities and pleasures, and unable to re-
monstrate against the wrongs to which they are
subjected.

In discharging the duties imposed on them,
the ofﬁcers of the Society have had to encounter
continued difﬁculties it is true; but they enjoy
the satisfaction also of beholding the fruit of their
labor ripening with time.

During the year just terminated, there have
been 405 persons arrested, of which 269 were con-
victed, 126 acquitted, and 10 complaints with-
drawn.

LECTURES.

The president has delivered the following lec-
tures during the same period.

On the 10th June, before the Third Union Co-
operative Land and Building Association, in Co-
operative Hall, 214 Bowery.

On the 7th October, before the Fishkill Branch
of the American Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals.

0n the 14th February, he lectured in the Rev.
H. D. Northrup’s Church, 23d street. Subject:
“Our Dumb Slaves.”

 




  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

12

On the 22d March, in the “Alexander Chapel,”
King street. Subject: “Fair Play.”

On the 28th March, in the Church of the Epi-
phany, 130 Stanton street. Subject: “The Rights
of Animals.”

On the 6th of April, he delivered an address
before the Ladies’ Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, in Philadelphia.

On the 22d April, he lectured at the Mission
Chapel, 140 Sixth Avenue. Subject: “Youthful
Cruelties.” .

The following invitations to speak were declined,
On account of the pressure of business here :——-

On 30th November, at Worcester, Mass.

On 10th January, at Montreal, before the Cana-
dian Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Ani-
mals, at their annual meeting. -

During January, at Bangor, Me, before the
Bangor Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals.

INFLUENCE OF THE SOCIETY.

It is With pardonable pride that the Secretary
is able to refer to many an instance, did space per-
mit, of the humane and civilizing inﬂuence this
Institution exercises, but he cannot refrain from

 

 

 




 

13

citing one notable instance. In building the house
49 Walker street, a cat had crawled into the hol-
low iron girder forming the base of the front.
Heedless of the cries of the animal, the workmen
proceeded with their work and had progressed so
far as the fourth story, when the fact was reported
to us. Our prompt and forcible intercession in
behalf of the entombed creature, ably seconded by
the judiciary, the cruel and demoralizing conse-
quences were prevented by its release. To accom-
plish this, a portion of the side wall had to be taken
down.

The Dispatch of 8th August, 1869, thus com-
ments on our Society :—

“ We took occasion, a couple of weeks ago (‘25 July), to cite the exam-
ple of Mr. Bergh, and the ‘Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals,’ in illustration of the practical good which can be effected by
organized zeal and determination. Since then, the Society has given
another evidence of its devotion to the business it has on hand. It is
reported that some two weeks ago certain workmen engaged in putting
up the front of a building in Walker street, were so cruel or thoughtless
as to close up the aperture of a hollow iron girder, into which a cat had
crawled for shelter, and to go on building thereupon, regardless of the
cries and moans of the poor animal entombed alive. The fact was made
known to the Society; but not until the front had been erected to the
fourth story of the building. But the Society’s action was prompt. The
builders were ordered to take down every column and girder if necessary
and release the cat. The law was at the back of mercy in this case ; the
owners of the building gave the necessary orders, and the task of releas-
ing poor puss was happily accomplished without a [demolition of the
building; although it became necessary to remove a portion of the side
wall into which the girder had been let, in order to make a hole wide
enough for the cat’s egress. After nine days incarceration, the animal,
very lank and feeble, was extricated from her iron sepulchre; and the
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals has once more vindi-
cated law and humanity.” '

 

 




 
 
 
  
  
 
 
   
 
  
   
     

 

 

 

 

 

     
 
 

14

The ripple on the stream, which began in this
city four years ago, is gradually extending over
the continent, and from distant Texas comes the
pleasing news that its beneﬁcent effects have been
felt there. as the following extract from the Sun,
23 October, 1869, bears witness: '

“ Corporal George Hoyt, Co. C, 9th Cavalry, has been sentenced by a
court martial at Fort. Davis, Texas, to be reduced to the ranks, to forfeit
$10 of his monthly pay for six months, and to be conﬁned at hard labor
for six months, for maltreating, abusing, and neglecting his horse.”

TRUCK. FOR DISABLED ANIMALS.

At a meeting of the Executive Committee, held
February 1, 1869, the following Preambles and
Resolutions were adopted :—

Whereas, It frequently happens thathorsesifall
in the streets of our city, thereby injuring, but
not always permanently disabling them: And

Whereas, They are liable to perish for want of a
proper conveyance to remove them where they
may be cared for, therefore,

Resolved, That the President be, and he is
hereby authorized, to advertise for plans and
proposals to furnish this Society with four or six
trucks, which shall be of a suitable size, make
and ﬁnish; said proposals and plans to be laid
before this Committee at its next meeting.

In pursuance of the above resOlution a truck

 




 

15

was constructed, and the beneﬁcial results antici-
pated have been fully realized. Its frequent ap-
pearance in the streets of New York and other
cities on its mission of mercy, has elicited the most
marked expressions of sympathy and approbation.
From July 24, 1869, to May 1, 1870, this vehicle
of mercy has removed ﬁfty-two animals not per-
manently disabled, to places of shelter and secu-
rity, thus rescuing them from probable death.

PIGEON MATCHES.

At the annual meeting in May, 1869, the Presi-
dent was called on by Dr. A. K. Gardner to
explain the reasons which prompted him in sup-
pressing a pigeon shooting match in April, 1869.

The President, in reply, stated that the exhibi—
tion was cruel, demoralizing, and useless, and in
violation of the State laws. '

As the season approached for these matches, a
letter was received from the Editor of The Citizen

and Round Table condemning our interference in .

this “sport,” as it is termed. While dissenting
from the views of Mr. Roosevelt and his friends,
the President was advised for the present to dis-
.continue legal proceedings, which was done.

 

 




  

 

 

 

 

16

To this letter the following reply was made :—

CRUELTY TO ANIMALS,

“AMERICAN SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF
OFFICE, 696 BROADWAY, NEW YORK, Sept. 27, 1869.

ROBT. B. ROOSEVELT, ESQ.:

DEAR SIR—I have the pleasure to acknowledge the receipt of your
note of last week, without date, in relation to “Pigeon Matches,”
wherein you politely and frankly protest against the interference of this
Society, created for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals. You have
already done us the justice to utter your conviction that our motives are
good; and as we could do nothing without the Law’s authority, I here-
with cite what relates to the subject.

Section 1st of the Act of 1867 reads thus :—

~¥

“ SEC. 1. If any person shall over—drive, over-load, torture, torment, deprive of
necessary sustenance, or unnecessarily or cruelly beat, or needlessly mutilate or
kill, or cause or procure to be over-driven, over-loaded, tortured, tormented, or
deprived of necessary sustenance, or to be unnecessarily or cruelly beaten, or
needlessly mutilated or killed, as aforesaid, any living creature, every such
Oﬂ‘ender shall, for every such offence, be guilty of a misdemeanor.”

I would refer you to the Revised Statutes, Vol. 11., page 924, on
Betting and Gaming, which is read thus: “ All wagers, bets or stakes
made to depend upon any race, or upon any gaming by lot or chance, or
upon any lot, chance, casualty, or unknown or contingent event what-
ever, shall be unlawful. All contracts for, or on account of any money
or property, or thing in action so wagered, bet or staked, shall be void.”

By the ﬁrst quoted statute, you will perceive it is forbidden to tor-
ture, torment, or needlessly kill any dumb creature; and I submit that
these games come within the text and meaning of the law. It is not
_ pretended that the birds are killed from any reasonable necessity; but
are solely made to serve as targets, to verify the accuracy of the de—
stroyer’s aim. With becoming and consistent truthfulness, you admit
that these creatures are believed to be sometimes even mutilated before-
hand, in order, I presume, to lessen the chances of escape of the helpless
animal—thereby adding to the dishonor Of the original offence.

The “ sport ” is further obnoxious to the statute made to prevent bet—
ting and gaming, because at all such contests there is a “ stake,” either
of money or other valuable consideration. In every point of view,
therefore, the practice may be regarded as in violation of law ; demoral-
lZing to those who take part in it, and, however remotely associated, is,
in fact, a remnant of that cruel spirit which in ages now happily passed

 

 

 




    

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   
    

 

 

 

 

 

 

18

NEW YORK, October 18, 1869.

ROBERT B. ROOSEVELT, Esq.,

DEAR SIR :-——By resolution of this Society, I was authorized by the
Executive Committee thereof to interpose its moral and statutory powers
for the suppression of pigeon matches.

In obedience to the merciful sentiment, which underlies the action of
this Society, I have on several occasions employed the legitimate means
at my disposal, to prevent this seemingly needless sacriﬁce of the feath-
ered race, for the mere indulgence of a misguided fancy.

The execution of this obligation having encountered the earnest dis-
approval of a large portion of the press and public, and many personal
friends, whose judgment I value, having assured me, that in their opinion
the humane cause for which we labor would be better consulted by a
suspension of its interference for the present, I deem it proper to apprise
you, in reply to your communication to me on the subject, inviting a test
case, that such action becomes unnecessary, by reason of a becoming def-
erence to such recommendation.

In thus yielding my own convictions to this expression of public
sentiment, permit me to say, that I still indulge the belief that the day
will come, when the “ sport” in question will be substituted by a more
humane pastime. I am, with respect,

Your most obedient servant,

HENRY BE RGH,
President.

On the 15th November, 1869, the following no—
tice was given through the press, as a warning,
viz.:— '

The season being near when the “ sport,” as it is termed, of tying
fowls to stones and otherwise, and shooting at them on a wager, the
undersigned would kindly, and in a spirit of humanity, remind all per-
sons about to engage in this cruel and demoralizing pastime, that it is
contrary to law, and that this Society has taken the necessary measures
to enforce the same, by the arrest and punishment of oﬁenders discovered
in the violation thereof. HENRY BERGH.

President.

The following extract from the Umnmeqm'al

--~,.. w. wan qFKthg" Jaw

 




 

 

    

19

Advertiser of - 19th November, is the best commen-
tary on the effect of this notice :—

We congratulate President Bergh upon the almost universal regard
which was yesterday given to his injunctions touching the ancient and
once honorable pastime of shooting domestic fowls “ for the fun of the
thing.” Persons could safely walk in the suburbs of New York and
Brooklyn undisturbed by the whistle of stray shot, and undismayed by
the accuracy of those embryo sportsmen, who signalise their skill by
shutting their eyes at the word “ ﬁre,” and blaze away blindly, trusting
to luck to bring down the game, and to Providence to protect the hap-
less pedestrian, who may be within reach of their leaden messengers.
There is no case reported of a man, woman, child, cow, sheep, goat, or
any other Thanksgiving habitué of the untenanted districts in our
vicinity who, by reason of such fusillade, has been made to suffer from
loss of blood or an abraded cuticle.

DOG POUND.

This mart for the purchase and slaughter of
dogs, has been closed during the season of 1869,
and hence the cruel and demoralizing scenes for-
merly witnessed in the streets, have been sus-
pended.

The results, predicted by the Society, have been
fully realized, and along with the cessation of
demand, and reWard for production, the supply
has so visibly diminished, as to render the scarcity
of friendless dogs in the streets, of general com-
ment.

STREET RAILROADS.

The practice of crowding street cars, so cruel to
the poor animals engaged in dragging them, and
so disgusting and destructive in its effects on the




  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

.20

 
  
 

public health and morals, still continues to defy _
public sentiment and the law.

 

 
  

  

Several cases dated in 1868, await adjudica-
tion, delayed through the inﬂuence of this po-
tent despotism; and although we have failed to
' effect such a change as is desired by the com-
munity, we will continue to cause the legal in-
ﬂuence of the Society to be felt on every preper
occasion.

   

Prosecutions create a moral atmosphere; and
this Society fails to see why any corporation or
individual should be upheld or excite sympathy
for the violation of the laws, or that the laws
should be construed to suit the convenience of
the violators thereof.

Our object is the “ prevention of cruelty,”
and it is our duty at once to arrest its further
continuance, and not make ourselves a party
. thereto, by permitting sore and bleeding animals
to drag the cars to the end of the route, merely
for the convenience of the railroad company or

the public.

 

In Philadelphia, in July, 1869, a verdict of
guilty was obtained by the Society in that city
against the driver and conductor of one of the
Union Passenger Railway Company’s cars for
torturing their horses, by overloading the car With
passengers. ‘

   
 

 
   




 

 

    

21

Judge Pierce who presided, in his charge to the
jury, said:

“The passenger cars were a great convenience, and were necessary
by the size of the city. The streets had been given to them in a liberal
manner, with a view to the accommodation of the public. Persons
connected with these companies however, as well as others, are amenable
to the laws. While the companies have certain, rights and privileges,
there are certain obligations imposed by statute and common law that
must not be overlooked; their business must be so conducted as not to
interfere with the rights of others, nor violate the laws of the Common—
wealth. This was not a proceeding against the company, but against
two persons in their employ, who cannot justify an unlawful act, by say-
ing they were directed to do so by the company. The question is, did they
violate the law? If this company commanded them to act in an unlaw-
ful manner, the act would not be justiﬁed, for no body of men can require
another body of meii to do an unlawful act. If these persons permitted
persons to get on the cars to the number to be burdensome and cruel to the
animals, the law would be violated. It is said the driver was not respon-
sible, but the conductor alone was. The driver, having the manage-
ment of the horses, was supposed to know what load they would draw,
and it was his duty, if he thought the car was overloaded, to say so to
the conductor, and request him not to place any more persons in the car.
By not doing so, the inference is that the people were placed on the car
with his consent, and therefore equally liable with the conductor. The
conductor has the right to decline to stop for a passenger, and refuse to
carry others if his car is full, and the condition such as to burden the
poor beasts. If he does not do so he is responsible, no matter what
orders he may have received from the president. Persons who pay for
a seat in cars have the right not to be incommoded by being jammed
or pushed against, or generally inconvenienced. It would be much better
if the railway companies would endeavor to furnish accommodations to
enable every one to ride with comfort. On the arrival of steam cars, or at
times when there is a great transit at certain points, it would be far
better if additional cars were in readiness. These railroad companies
could scarcely justify themselves by the inconvenience they put the
public to by the manner in which they crowd the cars.”

INSPECTION OF STABLES.
During the past year the following stables have
been visited: ‘

Grand Street & Newtown Railroad Co., Williamsburgh, N. Y.
Brooklyn & East New York Railraoad 00., Brooklyn, N. .Y.




 

    

 

 

22

Brooklyn City Railroad Co., Brooklyn, N.Y.

Central Park, North & East River Railroad Co., New York.
Bleecker Street & Fulton Ferry Railroad Co., "
Forty-second & Grand Street Ferry, “

Johnson & Shepherd’s Line of Stages,

Broadway & South Side Railroad, Greenpoint, N. Y.

THE JU DICIARY.

It is gratifying to announce the continued jus-
tice, and humanity, which have generally charac-
terized the decisions of the Magistrates who have
had cognizance of our cases. The just and com-
passionate laws which this Society was chartered
to enforce, are commending themselves more and
more to the attention of the Judiciary in New

York.

In Brooklyn, on the contrary, it is a matter of
regret, that the action of certain Police Justices
has been unfavorable to the cause of mercy.

WASTE OF ANIMAL LIFE.

On the 21st December last, 600 horses and cows
were counted lying dead on the pier foot of North
Sixth street, Williamsburgh, the accumulations of
about three weeks only, in Kings County !

Many'of the cows had apparently died of dis-
ease,‘ incidental to their being immured in the foul
atmosphere of the cow stables which exist there

despite law and religion.

A large proportion of the horses were in such a
condition as to warrant the belief, that they had

 




 

23

been sacriﬁced to the cupidity of parties whose
humanity is subservient to their pecuniary greed.

THE METROPOLITAN POLICE FORCE.

From the Commissioners, Superintendent, Cap-
tains and the Force generally, the Society and its
agents have received the most gratifying aid and
support.

THE PRESS.

The Society again has to record its thanks for
the continued support this powerful agent of civ-
ilization has so liberally accorded it.

Our acts, on the whole, have been criticised in
a spirit of fairness and candor, and stern and
prompt have been the rebukes administered by it,
whenever the Cause itself has been assailed, or the
ofﬁcers of the Society threatened.

SWILL-MILK.

The President has drawn public attention once-
more by a letter which he has addressed to George
B. Lincoln, Esq., President of the Metropolitan
Health Board, on this subject :—

AMERICAN SOCIETY FOR THE
PREVENTION on CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.

G. B. Lincoln, President of the Metropolitan Health Board :

A most atrocious wrong is being inﬂicted on the inhabitants of Brook-
lvn and this city by wretches whom it would be gross ﬂattery to callé
' 3

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

. .‘

. _ 4. Ir
~—~——.____.—————————4_,_——4_

 

 

 

 

 

 

‘24

brutes. It consists in their conﬁning hundreds of cows together, in dark
and badlv ventilated stables, without exercise, and scarcely room to
stand or lie down; all the while fed on “Distillery waste,” or slops.
This barbarous and unnatural treatment produces its natural conSe-
quences. The animals become positively rotten, the poisonous mucus
sometimes actually dropping from their bodies; and while in this condi-
tion they are milked, and the horrid liquid sold and consumed by the
people of the aforesaid cities.

Nor is this all. The offal, or dead-cart, makes its daily visits to this
frightful charnel-house, where it may be seen waiting, in some instances.
for the very bodies of animals, then actually dying While being milked!

I am aware that it is difﬁcult to reconcile this statement to the sober
realities of truth ; but there is, unhappily, no ﬁction in it. The nausea-
ting but unsuccessful investigations of this Society long ago, in those lo-
calities, conﬁrm its accuracy. Now, the question is, shall these “ deeds
almost without a name ” be forever tolerated, for want of ofﬁcial severity.
or by reason of an inexplicable apathy on the part of the public”? Not an
hour should be lost; hundreds of men, women and children, are annually
being murdered or consigned to lives of disease, to say nothing of the
tortures of the submissive brute, by permitting these houses to exist.
Let them be speedily and forcibly swept out of being, and their ﬁendish
proprietors sent to Sing Sing.

But, you will say, proof of this is necessary. This I engage to furnish,
provided the Health Board will comply with my request—repeatedly
urged—that one of the agents of the Society be appointed an assistant
inspector, without pay, as provided by the eleventh section of the Act of
1866; and subsequently amended in section ﬁfteen of same law. This
matter is certainly of sufﬁcient importance to the community, to employ
every possible means for its correction ; and I trust the Board will, with-
out delay, second this effort of ours, to do that which its present in-
spectors in that locality have completely failed to do.

I have the honor to be, your most obedient servant,

HENRY BERGH.

President.
New York, December 20, 1869.

By the published reports of the Board, the
above communication was referred to the Sanitary
Com mi t t ere .

 




    
   

 

    

 

26

notwithstanding the defendant admitted that he
gave .swill to his cows-in violation of law.

The other swill—milk men who were arrested by
warrants issued by Justice Buckley, to appear be-
fore him on 12th February, and then adjourned to
the 21st, appeared at length in Court, and the
ﬁnal disposal of their cases is best set forth in the
following letter :—

V NEW YORK, February 21, 1870.

Hon. Samuel D. Morris, District Attorney Kings County :

DEAR SIR: On the 5th of February I made complaint against the
following named persons for cruelty to animals, in conﬁning and feeding
on unwholesome food, etc. etc., a large number of cows in a stable sit-
uated at First and North Fifth streets, Williamsburg, viz.: Robert
O’Grady, Emanuel McCahn, John Henry, H. Middlecamp, Peter Le-
mar, John B. Bender, Michael O’ Hare.

These persons were formally arrested on warrants issued by Justice
Buckley, who thereupon demanded examination, and a day was ap-
pointed, but on all the parties appearing the defendants’ counsel de—
manded an adjournment until the 21st of February, on which occasion
all were again present. When Justice Buckley arraigned the above
persons, and demanded who appeared for the people.

Mr. Bergh—I am here for that purpose.

Justice Buckley—By what authority, sir? Have you any written
documents?

Mr. Bergh—I am a member of the bar : President of a society which
was created by the Legislature to" prevent cruelty to animals. I have
acted in such cases heretofore by permission of District Attorney Mor-
ris, and my appearance here is sanctioned by him.

Justice Buckley—I cannot recognize your right to appear, and I shall
therefore dismiss the cases. '

Mr. Bergh—Will the court defer such disposal of the cases until I can
go to the ofﬁce of the District Attorney, and procure the written author-
ity of Mr. Morris.

‘Justice Buckley—Yes.

On making a report of the foregoing to you, I was immediately pro-
vided with the following paper :—

 




 

 

    

27

OFFICE OF DISTRICT ATTORNEY, KINGS COUNTY,
BROOKLYN, February 21, 1870.

Henry Bergh, Esq :

DEAR SIR: Will you please be so kind as to represent the people in
all cases where parties are arrested for violation of the statute against
cruelty to animals. Yours, &c.

(Signed) S. D. MORRIS, District Attorney.

After procuring the foregoing letter I returned without delay to J us-
tice Buckley’s Court, which was still in session, and read and presented
the same to the justice, who replied :—- -

Justice Buckley—I still do not recognize your right to appear.

Mr. Bergh—It is by authority of the paper which I have just sub-
mitted.

Justice Buckley—There is no public prosecutor present.

Mr. Bergh—That authority is delegated to me, and I claim that to all
intents and purposes of this case the District Attorney is present in my
person. Does the court dispute the authority of the paper submitted,
and the signature of the District Attorney?

Justice Buckley—No, sir; but I do not recognize such authority. I
shall discharge the defendants.

Thereupon the parties were severally called by name and discharged.

I have the honor to be, your obedient servant,
HENRY BERGH.

On the 23d Februray, the Grand Jury of Kings
County held a special meeting and summoned Mr.
Bergh to appear before them, the result of which
was the indictment of the above swill-milk men,
along with the before-named Justice Buckley.

On the 28th February, the case of Tongas again
came up before Justice Riley, and after a most te-
dious delay in waiting the coming of the counsel
for the defence, it was agreed to dispense with a
jury, and abide the decision of the Justice. The
case was fully summed up by both counsel, and




    

     

 

   
 

 

 

28

on Mr. Bergh offering to read from a scientiﬁc
work relating to the ‘case, and as a part of his
speech—it was excluded by the Judge!

But, although this novel ruling occasioned no
surprise in the mind of the President, because the
whole tenor of the proceedings had prepared him
for any bias or irregularity—yet it did astonish
the legal mind of both Brooklyn and New York.

On the 2d of March, the Justice consummated
his duty to the public and the laws, by dismissing
the complaint; thereby establishing the right of
swill—milk dealers to feed swill, although forbidden
by law; and to dose the citizens with their poison-
ous ﬂuid, called milk.

On the 1st of March, the charge against the
same defendant, growing out of the former one,
viz. : cruelty to animals, in conﬁning cows in dark,
badly ventilated, and ﬁlthy stables, came on for
trial, before the same Justice and a jury ; but it
is useless to inﬂict a detailed report upon the mem-
bers; one circumstance which transpired during
the trial, will sufﬁce to show the spirit in which
the investigation was conducted.

 

Mr. Bergh, having established by numerous Wit/-
nesses a certain state of facts in the treatment of
the cows by the defendant, called two surgeons, as
experts, to prove the consequences resulting to the
animals in question; when the Justice ruled

 

 

 




vie—ﬂak margin-w» _ i

4.5. a..-

my;

‘r

 

129

against the testimony on the ground that the eX-
perts themselves “had never visited the stables,
nor seen the cows!” In other words, the ruling
of the learned Judge was, that a physician can-
not judge of the effect of a blow with a hammer
on the head of a victim, nor of the effect of ar-
senic, without having seen the murdered man or
been present when the poison was administered !
The defendant was accordingly acquitted!

ADULTERATION OF FEED.

This is another device in addition to the many
resorted to by avaricious people to make money,
and to torment and destroy the brute creation.

The noble and intelligent horse, the patient and
willing slave of our race, is swindled out of his
hard-earned food, by the mixture of marble dust
and plaster of paris with his daily food. This in-
digestible compound forms into solid stone, and
samples of it are in our possession, taken from the
stomachs of animals thus heartlessly murdered.

GLAN DERS AND FARCY.

These incurable disorders are the consequences
of inhuman treatment; and are contagious to man
as well as beast. The Society has exterminated
great numbers of these unfortunate creatures,
with a View to prevent the spread of the disease,
and terminate their sufferings.

 




 

 

30

OVERLOADING.

The question is frequently asked of us, “ What
do you call an overload?”

All animals not being endowed with equal
strength and endurance, the condition and size of
the animal, the state of the roads and streets, and
the diﬁ‘erence to be traveled, suggest the answer.

The trucks of the present day have been in-
creased in size until many of them measure ﬁfteen
feet in length, and weigh about 3,000 lbs., upon
which are daily to be seen merchandise weigh-
ing from two to four tons!

To drag these ponderous loads, but two horses
are generally employed. Notwithstanding our re-
monstrances and prosecutions of offenders—added
to the trouble we occasion cartmen, almost daily,
by compelling them to unload in the streets—the
abominable imposition goes on, the consequences
of which are fearfully apparent in the blind, dis-
ﬁgured forms of the uncomplaining creatures sub-
jected to their owners’ avarice. There is no cru-
elty more wide-spread, persistent and mercenary
than that Of overloading which comes to our
knowledge. An animal which declines to move,
when overloaded, is termed “ baulky.”

DOG AND COCK FIGHTS.

The persistent efforts of this Institution to
break up these demoralizing and cruel “sports,”

A 1'
..................

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
   

‘T

 

 




1r

 

31

as they are termed, have been attended with grat-
ifying success.

Cock ﬁghting is difﬁcult of discovery, owing to
the secresy with which the “ mains” are con-
ducted.

The notorious “ pit” of James Giddings, located
in Brooklyn, has been visited by us on several oc-
casions, and the parties arrested and ﬁned. The
second visit there on 25th February, resulted in a
failure to capture the parties, owing to our com-
ing having been announced to the parties; conse-
quently on our arrival, accompanied by twenty-
ﬁve policemen, the doors and shutters were secure—
ly fastened. A large crowd had gathered in the
street, evidently in sympathy with those in the
building.

LEGISLATlON.

Early in the session of 1870, a Bill~.was pre-
sented to the Legislature by one Denis Burns,
Member of Assembly from this city, to repeal the
Act of 12th April, 1867, “For the more ef-
fectual prevention of cruelty to animals ;” but it
was subsequently amended by the Chairman of the
Judiciary Committee, Thomas C. Fields, so as to
cripple, though not entirely annihilate the Society.

That two men could be found in so responsible
a position as legislators, capable of perpetrating so

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

32

cruel a wrong upon dumb, unoffending creatures.
and thereby demoralizing the community, which
they were required by every consideration of hu-
manity and public policy to protect, is painfully
surprising.

The following is the language of the Bill al-
luded to :—

SEC. 1. “ So much ofthe eighth section of the act of 1867, ‘ for the more
effectual prevention of cruelty to animals,’ as authorizes any agent of the
American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals to make arrests
and bring before any Court or Magistrate any offender against the pro-
visions of said act, is hereby repealed; and no arrests shall be made of
any person for alleged violation of said act, or any of the provisions there-
of, except upon complaint made to, and warrant issued by some Court or
Magistrate having jurisdiction ; and in no case shall any servant or
employe be arrested under any of the provisions of said act, when his
employer is known or can be found within the State.

SEC. ‘2. “No person or ofﬁcer shall hinder, delay, or obstruct the
transit or passage of any city railroad car, omnibus, or other vehicle, or
interrupt public travel therein, by arresting the driver or conductor
thereof, or by interfering with any such car or vehicle, or the horses
drawing the same, upon charge of any violation of the provisions of said
act by any such driver or conductor, or the owner or owners, proprietor
or proprietors of any such car or vehicle.”

Against this cruel attempt to deprive the dumb
servants of our race of the only protection which
is now afforded them, the Society protested in the
following

APPEAL. TO THE PUBLIC:

OFFICE OF THE SOCIETY FOR THE E

PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS, .

NEW YORK, Feb. 15, 1870. S
The bill just intorduced to the Assembly by Mr. Burns, of this city,
and amended in the Judiciary Committee, if it should pass, effectively

   
  
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
     
    




 

 

 

 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
   
   
   
   
 
   
   
   
   
   

 

 

 

 

 

 

    

 

34

 

ﬁts be suppressed in order to indulge the personal vindictiveness of the.
mover of the bill himself, who admitted to the undersigned that because
he once had been made to pay ten or twenty dollars for a violation of the
statute, he had resolved to repeal it. Is this statesmanship? Is this

Christianity “.3
HENRY BERGH, President.

This bill passed the Assembly, and was reported
to the Senate, where it was defeated:

 

A bill was also introduced early in the same
session by our Society, containing 12 sections,
which our experience has shown was necessary
for the more effectual enforcement of our humane

purposes.

This bill was reported in the Assembly favora-
bly and ordered to a third reading, but never came

up.

 

HORSES KILLED.

  

In this city 3850 horses were recieved at the
New York Rendering Company’s dock, at large pro-
portion of which were mercifully destroyed by our
order; which is now recognized as necessary in
all cases where animals are to be killed.

  

SOCIETIES IN THE UNITED STATES.

During the past year, seven additional societies
have been organized, viz. : in Maryland, Missouri,
Iowa, Minnesota, Fishkill, N. Y., Washington,
D. C. and Michigan, and others are in course of
organization ; all modeled after our own.




 

 

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
    

35

To the Pennsylvania Society, its excellent Pres-
ident, S. Morris Waln, has donated 3515.000; and
to the Ladies’ Pennsylvania Society, of which Mrs.
Caroline E. White is President, $5,000, the inter-
est of which is to assist in defraying the expenses
of those institutions. This noble—hearted gentle-
man had previously donated the muniﬁcent sum
of $6,000 to the former.

On March 29th the Massachusetts Society held
its second annual meeting at Horticultural Hall,
in Boston, His Honor, Mayor Shurtleff, in the chair.
Addresses were made by Messrs. Alger, Loring,
Flint and Brooks; and the vast audience mani-
fested its entire approval of the administration of
its affairs, by the able Secretary, Frank B. Fay,
Esq. , in the absence of President Angell in Europe.
The record of its humane labors during the past
year were enthusiastically applauded and approved.

The Pennsylvania Society also held its annual
meeting in Philadelphia on the 18th of January
last, with similar success.

And on the 6th of April, the Ladies’ Society,
under the Presidency of the able and excellent
Mrs. Caroline E. White, held its meeting, which
Mr. Bergh, by invitation, attended.

WLLIAMSBURGH FIRE INSURANCE CD.

To this Company the Society begs leave to
return its thanks, for gratuitous desk room in

i ll}:
i x

. . ,

l




 

 

 

 

36

their ofﬁce, and the privilege of putting up the
name and seal of the Institution on its building.

DISTRICT ATTORNEYS GARVIN AND MORRIS.

Too much praise cannot be awarded to these
gentlemen, for their uniform courtesy,“and zeal in
forwarding the objects of the Society.

Their advice and legal assistance are gratefully
appreciated.

TRANSPORTATION OF BEEF CATTLE.

The evils attendant upon the present mode of
transportation have been repeatedly laid before
the public; and legislative action as often invoked
to remedy them, but Without success.

AGENTS. ’

The reports from our agents in the State are

very encouraging in regard to the progress of the
cause in their respective localities.

THE METROPOLITAN FIRE DEPARTMENT.

To the Commissioners the Society begs leave to
return its warmest thanks, for the gratuitous use
of one of their engine houses in Centre street, to

keep our truck for the transportation of disabled
animals.

 




ﬁt The American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, In account with John B. Murray, Treasurer. Git.

 

 

570. 1869.
\Iay 1. To dash paid out from Isl 1M J, 1869,15030l/z April, May 1. By Balance. ...................................... $3,222 92
1870, inclusive via, 1870

Sal.tr1es,oﬁ1ce ................................ $1 000 00 May 1. By 008]? receivedfrom 13lMay,1869 (0 30!]? April

detectives .. .................. . 1,787 76
Rent of New YOIk ofﬁce. 1 year” . 800 ()0 , 1870’ incluswe, mg"
6‘ BI'OOklyll ﬁ‘ 1 3763]: ............... 150 00 IJlfc l‘Ienli)el’ShipS. .................... - - .. . . a . . 1,150 00

Rewards ................ . .. ....... 24s 50 Yearly Memberships ............................ 905 00
Printincr __ , , _ .. ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,, , . .. .. . 335 19 Donations. .................................... 987 00
Stationery. .................................... m0 539 i Fines received from 1st March. 186% to d. ite . . 1.330 02
Badges for ofﬁcers and seals for societies ........ :30 7:” ? Interest received 011 $9 000 [i '- 5 2” “(man and
Truck for transportation of disabled animals“ 450 00 } ' 919111111111, 1% years --------------- 1,022 94
Repails and sundries for truck ................. 85 38 i Interest recelved 011 $2 000 U S 1(‘ 10 BONUS and
Painting and repairing fountains and tronuh. 2U 57 131’0111111111- . - ....................... 124 (59
Sign for ofﬁce 111 Wilhamsburgh ............... 10 On Interest received from Union 'l‘Iust Company for
Ofﬁce expenses .............. _ _ ................ 206 ()7 the year 1869 ............................... 106 4'2 (1‘3
’l‘rav enng expenses ......................... . 319 (’5 A Badgi ...................................... . 2 00 “\I
Postages and check stamps. .. . .......... m
Rents for rooms for meetings ....... . ...... 1‘2 50
Rent for safe in Palk National Bank ............ 25 00
Counsel fees 8, prosecuting cases. . . .. .. .. .. 84 60
Feed fm horse“ ........................ 2: 00
Balam t' in Union Trust (in ........ . .. $3,058 47

“ in drawer.. .. ............... :15 45

 

 

 

we?! ‘ se 850 no

 

We have examined the above account and found it collect. MM 1- By Balance ----------- $3.113 9'3
JAMES A. CLARKE,
THO. C. DOREMUS,
NEW YoRK, May .23 1870.

' . O11 hand, :9 000, U. S. 420 6 per cent. Bonds.
£14 uditmg (L'ommi-ttee. $2 000 U. S. 10— 10 5 per cent. Bonds.
JOHN B. I‘lIURRA Y, Treusu rcr.

 




   
    
   
 
 
 
   
   
   
   
 
  
  
  
   
   

38

 

 

 

LEGACIES.

The Treasurer would also state that since his
last statement, he has been notiﬁed of three
legacies bequeathed to this Institution, amounting
in the aggregate to $7,000, and that since the 1st
May, 1870, the sum of $8,000 has been received

“ towards the purchase of a building for the pur-
poses of the Society.

 

 

 

 

 

The Report of the Committee on Nominations
was then read.

 

 

 

At a meeting of the Executive Committee held
4th April, it was

Resolved, That a Committee of three be appointed to nominate suitable
i persons to be supported for ofﬁce at the next annual election.

1 Whereupon, Messrs. Thos. C. Doremus, Ed-
' ward H. Ludlow and Wm. B. Dinsmore Were ap-
l) pointed such Committee.

H The Committee on Nominations for the Annual
3; . Election of Ofﬁcers of the American Society for
the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, May,
1870, respectfully report :—

 

That they have fulﬁlled the duty imposed on them, and beg leave to
recommend the following ticket for the suffrage of members :—

 

FOR PRESIDENT,

HENRY BERGH.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

    

FOR VICE-PRESIDENTS,

John T. Hoffman,
Horace B. Claﬂin,
Henry W. Bellows,
Benjamin D. Hicks,
Peter Cooper,

 

James Brown,

Geo. T. Trimble,
Wm. H. Aspinwall,
Moses Taylor,
Marshall 0. Roberts.

FOR SECRETARY,
N. P. Hosaek.

F O R ’_l_‘ R EASII R ER ,

John B. Murray.

F0 R EXEC U TIV E (3 () M M ITTEE,

John D. Wolfe,

Frank Leslie,
Townsend Harris,
Chas. H. Marshall,
Alex. Van Rensselaer,
Alfred Sehermerhorn,

A. H. Campbell,

 

E. Geo. Squier,
N. M. Beekwith,
James Stokes,
Nathan C. Ely,
D. Lydig Suydam.
Jonathan Thorne,
John Jourdan,

John M. Bixby.

New Yam, Apm 23, 1870.

THos. C. DOREMUS,

EDW. H. LUDLOW, >Uommittee.
I

W. B. DINSMORE, J

The gentlemen recommended by the Committee
on Nominations were unanimously elected.

4

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

    

 

 
  
   
  
  
     
     

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

40

On nomination, the following persons were duly
elected Resident Members :—Messrs. Lewis G.
Morris, John Jourdan, 1. Wilson Macdonald, I.
S. Hoagland, Sherman P. Sage, Robert J. Dillon,
Samuel Mitchell, Mrs. Fairbanks, Mrs. Emory
McClintock and Miss Katie Bell; and as Life
Members, Messrs. S. W. H. Ward, Stewart
Brown and Winslow, Lanier & Co.

 

N. P. HOSACK,

Secretary.

REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.

At a meeting of the Executive Committee,
held on the 4th April, 1870, it was 1

Resolved, That a Committee of three be appointed on the part of this
Committee, to prepare and submit the Report of the Executive Commit—
tee to the annual meeting in May next.

 

Whereupon, Messrs. John D. Wolfe, Chas. H.
Marshall and James Stokes were appointed such
Committee.

The Report being submitted to the Society at
its annual meeting, was approved and adopted.

Your Committee would further represent :—-—

  

That, as a full Report of the history of the proceedings of the Society
accompanies this one, there exists less need of details; but since there
have been matters brought before the Committee which do not come

    




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

tain.

suffered him to liberate the calf,

party to a stand, and obliged the proprietor to let the calf feed to its full.
This order was at ﬁrst objected to, but seeing that it was useless, he

who happened fortunately to be passing, brought the

Ed

fully-

another around the helpless little calf.

leading a cow and calf. There was a rope about the mother

A. \\\.
§\\\v

\ SQ \

Mr. BERGH

\\

itor of

7

ﬁt subject to i
to introduce i

i

llustrate
n th

The above repre
Frank Leslie’

\ ,
\t. .. t x
\ . U.

\\ ._: \ $5Lmu

\ .\ ..\\\~\“\ﬂu .iudawmlu; i i-

IS

\ t \. VAWN

7

sents
t
“While passing along Chambers s

Report.

We ....

frequently comes under our notl

a phase of cruelty which
°ce, and as
8 paper has thOught
it has been deemed proper
He says :—
treet, I chanced to see two men
’s neck

0
’

the
the purchaser that the cow was a great giver of milk. Observing this,

by the milk within it, which the little creature was denied the
privilege of sucking, in order that the owner might make it appear to

The udder was distendedfear-

N
m
A
1
U;
3
S
no
8
u
3
m.
mu
0
w
d
u.
s
3
p
I.
u
Q?
U...
9
d
O
0
J
m
0
Q?
U;
a
J
ma
3
m...
U
an
H;
a
J

and conduct it to the cherished foun-

lta

and

 

 

 




 

 

 

    

43

young and licking its body at the same time, just as a woman kisses her
baby. The delight of the little thing as it tugged at the teats, and the
crowd of spectators, with Mr. BERGH standing by the side of the ani-
mals, arms folded, and looming up nearly a head and shoulders above
the group, in front of the County Court House. I wish I could draw
this scene, for, while it was called a moral picture or sermon in the
streets, it rendered several of God’s creatures—dumb and intellectual—
happy for at least half an hour.

“ ‘ The animals are mine,’ said the man.

“ ‘Yes,’ replied Mr. BERGH, ‘that may be, but the milk is nature’s,
and belongs to the famishing little being which is now drinking it, and. I
am going to stop here until it has swallowed every drop that it wants.’

“And so he did, until "the mother and her offspring moved off rejoic-
ing, then the crowd dispersed, and I along with it.

“It is my opinion that such a little incident is calculated to temper
the savage instincts of the heartless observer, as a sermon from the
pulpit." '




 

      
    
     

 

 

 

 

ﬂVIVII Illa}! [VIII/I”, V

V'VV

 
 
 

‘II' V, ! I, “I: \..~ 3 ‘ " ' /
NNI'MVIII'I“ ‘5: ' -."V

V"
I

”IN, :35...-
{NEE ' ‘ ‘
Y'V‘.
-

  
 
  
 
 

’ "131» :L‘:/ #3:, -| ,4 VI.
1% VV VVVI
V : V ., ”5;;
ll ' V :rW/éézrf V
//,/”W’7”” VIM V” VWVVV
V/‘VIVVVIV ”VI, S ‘VV

VVVIVV /

  
    

VVW ,5?

V M II
V VVVVV‘VV.”VVV' VIVV VVVVV, V”

 
 
      
      
    
     
    

SHEEP-SHEAR IN

V VVV'VV V" .
VVVVV| VVVVIIIVVIVVVVIII V 4V V" V VV'VVVVVV VVVVI

 

”'V'V‘ VVVV

     
 

  

    
      

VVV ‘ IVVV.I..
IV V VVVVVVV VVVVVVVV .V V V

“IVV
VVVV‘VV VIVVVVVVVI VVVV

 
 

V

    

   

 

_ 57' /«'. .
; V’ /W/ 41.x»: ’ I.»
' ' VIVVIVVVV VulthMV/V lVlVlVllllVV' ‘

 

 
  

 

VV

 

  
    
     
   
     
   
  
 
    

  

ﬂ"

 

 




 

av.

 

 

1869.
May 14.

May 20.

May 28.

June 1.

June 1.

June 2.

June 4.

June 5.

June 7.

June 12.

 

ARRESTS AND CON VICTIONS.

Michael Casey, driving a horse with one knee badly swollen
and two running sores on its back. Horse was destroyed and
the owner ﬁned $25 or twenty—nine days’ imprisonment by J us—
tice Walsh.

Herman Otto, Leopold May, William Reed, and Op-
penheim, arrested June 9th and 10th, 1868, for cruel treatment
of cattlein the slaughter-house, 210 Eldridge street. Complaints
dismissed by the Grand Jury.

 

John Fitzgerald, driving a horse with a sore foot. Discharged
by J uSLice Dowling, as a veterinary surgeon’s certiﬁcate stated
that to get the matter out, it was necessary to work the animal.

George Riblet, complained of for working horses in bad con—
dition on the road to Manhattanville, three of which were
condemned by us.

E. M. Riggs, driving a horse with sores on its breast. Fined
$25 by Justice Walsh, but afterwards sent to the Penitentiary.

Michael Walsh, driving a horse with a swollen leg and galled
hip. Fined $10 by Justice Walsh.

Hugh Galeiger, kicking a dog, and abusing Mr. Campbell.
Held in $300 to keep the peace by Justice Dodge.

Patrick McCaﬁ‘rey, overloading a horse with 4200 lbs. of hay.
Sentenced to thirty days in the Penitentiary.

William Fagan, driving a horse, very lame, shoulders, back
and hip afﬂicted with raw sores. Fined $10 by Justice Riley,
or ten days in prison.

Thomas Farrell, driving a horse before a brick—cart, with sores
on both breasts and lame. Fined $10 by Justice Riley.

June 12. Timothy Leary, driving a horse with sore breast and lame.

Fined $15 or thirty days prison by Justice Walsh.

June 12. Adam Goff, driving a lame horse before a dirt—cart. Dis-

charged by Justice Dodge, on promise to reform.

 




    

 

 

   
 

46

June 17. William Conway, driving a lame herse. Reprimanded by
Justice Mansﬁeld, who made him take the horse out.

June 18. John Fitzpatrick, driving ahorse with a raw sore under the
saddle. Fined $10 or ﬁfteen days in the County Jail by
Justice Walsh.

June 21. James Leonard, driving a horse with raw sores on its back
and on both sides of the neck. Fined $10 or ﬁfteen days’ im-
prisonment in the County Jail by Justice Walsh.

June 22. Christian Nicholas, beating a horse. Fined $4 by Justice
Lynch.

June 25. John and George Klaus, beating and abusing a horse. Tried
by a jury and acquitted, before Recorder Hackett.

June 25. W. C. Roche, cruelly whipping one of the horses attached to
a truck loaded with stones. Tried before ajury before Re—
corder Hackett, and acquitted.

June 25. William Keenan drivinor a horse before a dirt—cart knee sore
7 D }
and very lame. Tried by a jury, found guilty, and ﬁned $525
by Recorder Hackett.

June 25. Peter McKenna, driving a horse before a cart, the hoof of the
right hind leg cracked and Inaturated. Tried before a jury,
found guilty, and ﬁned $225 by Recorder Hackett.

June 25. John Hinkin, driving a horse before an express wagon, right
hind leg sore, raw, blood and matter running from. it. Tried
by a jury, found guilty, and ﬁned $25 by Recorder Hackett.

June 25. James Peck, driving 'a horse before an express wagon, with a
sore foot and lame. Discharged by Justice Hogan because the
prisoner had a veterinary surgeon’s certiﬁcate that it was better
to work the horse ! !

June 25. P. Malone, driving a lame horse before a cart. Prisoner
discharged, as he took out the horse and sent him home.

June 26. James Emry, driving a horse with a sore breast. Fined $45
by Justice \Valsh.

June 28. A case of abusing a horse in. a stable in 10th street, between
Second and Third avenues, Brooklyn, was investigated, and
the owner cautioned against a repetition.

 

 

 




‘F

 

47

June 28. C. F. Rover, driving a lame horse. Discharged by Justice
Ledwith, with a reprimand.

June 28. Patrick McMahon and Robert Fox, driving horses with raw
sores on their breasts and backs. Judgment suspended by
Justice Voorhies.

June 29.

 

Dongate, causing a horse which was unﬁt for use, to be
driven before a wagon. Fined $3 by Justice Walsh.

June 29. George Clemens, driving a mare with a raw running sore on
its back. Discharged by Justice Voorhies.

June 29. John Minzle, driving a horse with sores on both sides of its
back. Discharged by Justice Voorhies.

July 2. Charles Brown, driving a horse, spavined, ring-boned and very
lame. Judgment suspended by Justice Eames.

July 2. William Dunn, driving a horse before a cart loaded with dirt,
having raw sores on its back.

July 2. Edward Flood, for driving a sore horse before a cart loaded
with dirt.

Both of these parties Were discharged by Justice Voorhies, al—
though the horses were brought to Court for his inspection !

July 2. John Ryan, driving ahorse with a sore back. Fined $55 by
Justice Walsh or ten days in prison, which was afterwards re-
mitted.

July 2. Michael Kelly, driving a horse with a dislocated hip. Dis—
charged by Justice Walsh.

July 13. Thos. Powers, driving a pair of horses, unfit for use. Judg-
ment suspended by Justice Delmar, and cautioned not to use
them under penalty.

July 10. John Smith, Peter McCullough, Francis Gage, John Mayer,
and John Dunn, for driving lame horses, were reprimanded by
Justice Dowling, and discharged.

July 12. Michael Higgey, driving a horse with a large sore on its left.
breast. Taken before Sergeant Sloat, of the 46th Precinct, who
refused to hold the prisoner. ruling that no citizen had a right

 

 




    
  

48

to bring any person to the Station—house, except for felony.
This Sergeant is an ofﬁcer of wonderful ability ! !

    
       
      
   

 

Schmit, beating a horse. Fined $25 by Justice Del-
mar, or ﬁfteen days’ imprisonment, but afterwards discharged.

July 12.

July 13. Owen Coyle, driving a horse with a sore back, and lame.
Judgment suspended by Justice Walsh.

         
    
     
   
 

July 16. Thos. Groos, driving a lame horse. Fined $25 by Justice Del—
mar, or thirty days in the Penitentiary.

July 30. Thos. Zinck, driving a horse with a large sore on its breast
and shoulder, and whipping it. Fined $510 by Justice Eames.

          
    
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
   

July 30. Jas. Mahoney, beating his horses. On the prisoner express-
ing great contrition, was discharged by Justice Dodge.

July 30. A. B. Lush, driving a horse with galled shoulders. Fined
$10 by Justice Walsh.

July 30. Patrick Henry, driving a horse with a milk—leg. Fined $5
by Justice Walsh.

Aug. 3. Chas. Campbell, driving a lame and diseased horse. Fined
$10 by Justice Delmar.

Aug. 7. John McLarry and Michael Quinn, abusing the horses they 7
were driving. Each ﬁned $10 by Justice Ledwith.

Aug. 8 Chas. Schoﬂ'e, abandoning a horse to die. Discharged by
Justice Eames for want of sufﬁcient evidence.

Aug. 9. Wm. Barron, driving a horse before a coal-cart, with a sore
breast. Severely reprimanded by Justice Shandley.

Aug. 10. Casper Knaut, of Brooklyn, E. D., for throwing a brick at a
dog belonging to S. Gearing. Withdrawn.

Aug. 13. John O’Raﬁ'erty, beating a horse over the head with a stick. k
Dismissed by Justice Ledwith, as the horse had bitten the man.

Aug. 14. J. Hudson, Supt. Newtown and Grand street Railroad, for
driving a pair of horses before a car unﬁt for work. Judgment
suspended by Justice Eames.

Aug. ’14. Joseph Force, driving two horses before a car of the Grand
street and Newtown Railroad, sore and in bad condition.

 




      
 
       
   
  

50

  

Sept. 3. William Dunn, driving a horse with raw sores on its back
and shoulders. Fined costs of court, $2.50, by Alderman
Nolan.

    
      
     
       
     
   
   
   
  
  
   
  
  
  
   
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
   

Sept. 2. Joseph W. Werich, driving a horse which had a sore on its
right breast. Discharged by Justice Dowling, as the prisoner

had been in prison since 4th August.

Sept. 3. Samuel Morrison, police ofﬁcer, inciting a mob of seventy-ﬁve
to one hundred persons, by speech and manner, to resist the en-
forcement of the law, in the case of three trucks overloaded
with hay, and refusing to make an arrest when requested by
Mr. Bergh.

Sept. 4. Patrick Moran, driving a horse with a large raw sore. Fined
$145 by Justice Walsh.

Sept. 4. John Cody, driving a horse with a raw sore. Fined $53 by
Justice Walsh.

Sept. 4. William Foster, driving a horse with back and shoulder sore.
Fined $33 by Justice Walsh.

Sept. 7. Frederick Muns, driving a very lame horse. Fined $10 by
Justice Voorhies.

Sept. 9. Alexander Johnston, abusing a lame horse by beating it. '
Fined $15 by Justice Walsh.

Sept. 10. George Buck, diiving a lame horse before a lime wagon.
Fined $53 by Justice Walsh.

Sept. 14. Martin McDermott, driving a horse with a sore back. Fined
$53 by Justice Walsh.

Sept. 15. John Hughes, for driving a horse unﬁt for use. Discharged
by Justice Voorhies, who told him not to use the animal again.

Sept. 16. Patrick Lane, driving a lame horse. Fined $10 by Justice 1
Walsh.

‘

Sept. 16. Peter Flanagan, driving a horse before a loaded cart, and
beating it because it could not move the load. Fined $10 by
Justice ”

Sept. 17. George Thompson, interfering with A. H. Campbell in the
discharge of his duty, and urging resistance to prevent him

 

 




    

1‘

 

 

51

-from enforcing the law in the case of Frank Aker. Fined $10
and bound to keep the peace by Justice Dodge.

Sept. 17. Sullivan Greene, driving a horse with a sore breast and over-
loaded. Fined $25 by Justice Walsh.

Sept. 18. Michael Connors, driving a horse with a sore back. Fined
$10 or ﬁfteen days in jail by Justice Walsh.

Sept. 18. Christopher Platt, driving a horse badly galled. Complain-
ant not appearing, Justice Lynch dismissed the case.

Sept. 21. Walter Bowne, abandoning a horse Sentenced suspended by
Justice Eames.

Sept. 21. Henry Wonderless, stoning a dog. At the complainant's re-

quest, he was discharged, with a severe reprimand, by Justice
Sackman.

Sept. 23. T. Moritz, dragging a dog behind an Eighth Avenue car.
Justice Dowlin'g, on account of the prisoner having been in
prison six days, dismissed the case.

Sept. 23. Jas. Brennet, Hudson, N. Y., tearing the tongue out of a
horse. Fined $50 and six months in prison by Justice Storm.

Sept. 23. Samuel Green, Putnam County, building a ﬁre under an ox
which had lain down to rest, and badly burning the animal.
Fined, on 26th June, $50 by Justice Lee.

Sept. 23. John Fitzpatrick, beating a horse with stone and brick.
Fined $25 or thirty days in the penitentiary, by Justice Walsh.

Sept. 23. Thos. Halahan, causing Thos. Kehoe to drive a pair of horses
unﬁt for use. Fined $15 or twenty days in prison by Justice
Walsh.

Sept. 23. Owen Carroll, driving a horse with sore shoulders. Fined
$5 or ten days in prison by Justice Walsh.

Sept. 24. James 0. Day, driving a horse with sore back and breast.
Discharged by Justice Dowling, and told not to use the horse
till well.

Sept. 24. Richard Nichols, driving a spavined horse and beating it.
Fined $5 or ten days in prison by Justice Walsh.

 

 




 

Sept.

Sept.

Sept

Sept.

Sept.

Sept.

Sept.

Sept.

Sept.

Oct. 1

5‘2.

25. Thomas F. Lyons, driving a lame horse. Discharged by
Justice Ledwith, as the prisoner was not the regular driver.

25. Wm. McMore, driving a lame horse before a Seventh Avenue
car. Discharged by Justice Ledwith.

28. Daniel O’Hern, abusing a dog. Sentenced to one month’s
imprisonment by Justice Dowling.

28. James Smith, causing a horse to be driven, having a broken
knee. Dismissed, no complainant appearing.

29. John Fox and'Mary Hanley, driving disabled horses before
milk wagons. John Fox was ﬁned $10 and Mary Hauley (ii:-
charged by Justice Lynch.

29. Henry Hamilton, driving a very lame horse. ‘ Fined $10 or
ﬁfteen days in prison by Justice Walsh.

30. Patrick Flynn, driving a lame horse. Fined $5 or ten days in
prison by Justice Walsh.

30. Mary Kinney and her son, driving a horse unﬁt for use.

Fined $3 or ﬁve days in prison by Justice Walsh.

30. \Albert Grant, driving a lame horse. Discharged by Justice

Seaman.

. Owen and James Brady, driving a lame horse, with sores on
its back. Arrested and taken to the Station—house, and released
at the request of Mr. Bergh.

Oct. 1. S. J ennings. foreman Fulton Avenue Railroad Company, caus-

ing a man to drive a horse before a car of that line. Dismissed
for informality in the complaint, by Justice Lynch.

Oct. 1. F. Nevill and John Donaghan, driving ahorse with a sore back.

Taken to the Station—house, but released on their promise not
to repeat the offence.

Oct. 1. John Looney, Inspect-or Atlantic Avenue Railroad Company,

beatingmne of the horses of car 16. Taken to the Station—
house, and on promise not to repeat the'foﬁ'ense, was released.

Oct. 1. F. W. Johnston, driving a horse with sores on its back and side.

Owing to sickness in the prisoner’s family the case Was aban-

doned.

 

 

 




1"

 

its.

53
Oct. 2. Jacob Gust, abandoning two horses in the street. Pleaded guilty

and judgment suspended by Justice Dowling, having been in
prison from 18th September to date.

Oct. 6. James Mullin, driving a horse with a sore back and breast.
Fined 355 by Justice Lynch.

Oct. 6. Charles Brand, beating a horse. Fined $10 by Justice Lynch.

Oct. 8. B. Vanfelter, driving a lame horse. Dismissed by Justice
Walsh.

Oct. 9. John Baptist, putting two cats on the track of the Second Av—
enue Railroad and letting the cars run over them. Fined $30
by Justice Kelly.

Oct. 12. John Banks, driving a horse beiore a country wagon, with a
running sore, lame and thin. As the prisoner has been in jail
ﬁve days, Justice Kelly ﬁnd him 9855 only.

Oct. 12. William Foster, driving a horse with a sore back. Fined $155
by Justice Walsh.

Oct. 13. William Rogers, driving a horse before a dirt cart, with two
large sores on its back and one on the breast. Fined $5 by’
Justice Walsh.

Oct. 13. John Pierce, causing a lame horse to be driven. Horse killed.
Prisoner found guilty, and judgment suspended by Justice Con—
nolly.

Oct.14. Michael Wortheimer, driving a horse with a running sore on
its back, on both sides of its Spine. Fined $55 by Justice Walsh.

Oct. 5. James McClinchy, driving a horse before a market wagon,
with a raw sore on its breast. Fined $10 by Justice Eames.

Oct. 18. Thomas Hennessy, driving a horse before a loaded cart, with
two large sores on its back. Fined $10 or ten days in prison by
Justice Walsh.

Oct. 18. The driver of car 197, Greenwood and Court street Railroad
Company, beating a horse over the head. Discharged by the
Company.

Oct. 21. Thomas Farrell, driving a horse with a sore breast. Pleaded
guilty, and judgment suspended by Justice Walsh.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

Oct.

Oct. ~

Oct. ~

Oct.

Oct.

Oct.

Oct.

Oct.

Oct.

Oct.

Oct.

Oct.

Nov.

Nov.

21.

:30.

.236.

29.

. 11.

54

John Miner. driving a lame horse, and shoe off. Fined $10 by
Justice \Valsh.

Henry l.)elaney, driving a horse before a cart, with a large
sore on its back. Complaint withdrawn on promise not to re --
peat the offence.

John McCulloch, driving a lame horse. Fined $10 by Jus-
tice \Valsh.

{enljamin Hicks, driving a horse with a large sore on its neck.
Pleaded guilty and judgment suspended by Justice Walsh.

Charles Waltz, driving a horse with sores on its back. Fined
$10 by Justice Walsh.

Dennis Garvin, disorderly conduct towards Messrs. Bergh and
Campbell. Held in $300 to keep the peace.

Simon Rheims, beating a horse with a stick and whip. Dis-
missed by Justice Delmar.

Jeremiah Lane, driving a horse covered with. sores. Fined
$515 or ﬁfteen days in prison by Justice Lynch.

William Ayers, driving a horse with a sore breast. Fined $55
or ﬁve days in prison, by Justice Walsh.

 

Barrett, driving a horse with galled shoulders. Dis-
missed by Justice Walsh.

—— Myers, driving a horse‘with a sore back. Fined $5 by
Justice Walsh. -

John Murray, driving a lame and sore horse before car 19, of
the Hunter’s Point Railroad Company. Taken before Justice
Walsh.

James Crook, beating a horse. Fined $5 by Justice Lynch.

Henry Timm, driving a team of lame horses before car 102
of the Montrose avenue and Johnson street Railroad Company.
As he pleaded guilty, Justice Voorhies ﬁned him . 5.

Thomas Read, driving a horse very lame before a wagon.
Reprimanded by Justice Dowling.

 

 

 

 

 




 

    

Nov.

Nov.

Nov.

Nov.

N 0v.

Nov.

Nov.

Nov.

Nov.

Nov.

Nov.

 

. 11.

55

.11. Peter Brady, driving a horse with two sores on its breast.

Fined $10 by Justice Dowling.

 

Miller abusing calves in his wagon. Dismissed, com—
plainant not appearing.

‘. 13. \Villiam Bassett, driving a sore horse before a cart. Fined

$5 by Justice Dowling.

*. 13. Peter Connelly, driving a horse before a cart with sores on

back and breast. Judgment suspended by Justice Dowling, as
the prisoner had been locked up thirty hours.

13. James Cannon, driving a horse with a sore back. Fined $53
by Justice Dowling.

13. James Campbell, driving a horse which had a large sore.
Fined $10 by Justice Dowling.

13. Michael Gathney, driving a lame horse. Fined $5 by Jus-
tice Dowling.

13. John O’Donnell, driving a horse with a running sore on its
back. Fined $10 by Justice Dowling.

13. Frederick Kell, beating a horse. Fined $5 by Justice Dowl-
ing.

13. Michael Kegan, driving a horse with a large running sore on-
its shoulder. Fined $10 by Justice Dowling.

16. Patrick McCaﬁ'rey, driving a horse with a sore breast and
back. Fined $10 by Justice Dowling.

16. John Lanahan, driving a lame horse with sores on its back
and breast. Fined $10 by Justice Dowling.

16. Patrick Sullivan, driving a horse with sores on its back and
breast, and entrails protruding. Fined $5 by Justice Dowling.
Horse killed.

‘20. John Duffy, driving lame horses before a coach. Fined $10
by Justice Dowling.

23. Michael Sullivan, driving a horse with running sores on its
back and breast. Fined $5 by Justice Kelly.
.5

 

  




 

 

3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
34
3
3
.3333
3 .
33
33
33
3
3t
3
l3
.3
3
333
33
333‘
33.
3
3
3!
.3
3
3333
33
3
t
33
‘3
‘33‘33
33333
3
3
3
l
33
33
3
33
3
3‘ 3
1‘
3
3
3
3
“3
:3
3 3
1’3
:3
33
3
3
l
3.
3
i
3
.‘3
‘3
3‘3
3.
33
33
333‘3
33;
t
3
333
33
1333
x33
3.
333

’F2- 3
M

r—

Nov. 23.

Nov. 23.

,N 0v.

jNov.

I‘No v.

Nov.

Nov.

.Nov.

Nov.

Nov.

Nov.

 

Nov/‘23. John Mahany, driving a horse with raw and bleeding sores

.‘1

    

on its back. Fined $10 by Justice Kelly.

\V. Carity. jumping on a lot of calves in a wagon. Fined $15
by Justice Kelly.

\Villiam Crumway, driving a horse with raw sores on its back
and breast. Bail $300, forfeited by Justice Kelly.

John Donnolly, driving a horse with a sore breast. Fined
$10 by Justice Kelly.

James Cregan, driving a horse with its back very raw and
sore and its breast galled. Fined $15 by Justice Kelly.

\Villiam Burke, driving a horse with sores on its breast and
back. Pleaded guilty, and, by request of Mr. Bergh, judgment
was suspended.

H. Moss, running his vehicle twice into a Bellevue ambulance,
thereby badly injuring the horse. Fined $25 by Justice Kelly.

Ofﬁcer Green of the 15th precinct, for refusing to make a com-
plaint against John McCormick for cruelty to animals. Tried
before Police Commissioner Smith, and recommended for dis-
missal from the force.

James Carlton, driving a horse s0 covered with sores and un-
ﬁt for use, that we ordered it to be killed. Fined $10 by J us-
tice Kelly. -

George Cotton, driving a truck in which thirty-two large
sheep were packed. Warrant procured for his arrest but could
not ﬁnd him. ‘

Daniel Hopkins, driving a team of horses before a truck
laden with twenty-ﬁve barrels of ﬂour. One horse lame and
the other galled in the breast. Fined $5 by Justice Kelly.

Michael Galvin, driving a horse with a large raw sore on its
back. Captain Walsh discharged! the prisoner, but was cited
before the Commissioners by Mr. Bergh, and tried for so doing.

 

Kiernan, whipping his horses, being remonstrated with
by Mr. Bergh for his conduct, and becoming very abusive, was
arrested and taken before Justice Hogan, who ﬁned him $10 and
bound in $300 to keep the peace.

 




 

58

.4. Alexander McCausland, driving a team of horses before car
1'20, Broadway and Seventh avenue Railroad Company, unﬁt
for use. Fined $.10 by Justice Kelly.

. 2. Henry Boyle, driving a very lame horse before car No. ‘2, Grand
street and Newtown Railroad Company. Discharged by Justice

Voorhies.
Patrick Crane, overloading. Discharged by Justice Dowling.

Charles \Voods, driving a horse before car 146, of the Belt
Railroad, with sores on its breast. Fined $53 by Justice Dowl—

 

ing. .

James Hines, driving a horse with sores on its breasts and
back. Fined $10 by Recorder Hackett.

Samuel \Villiams, driving a sore horse. Absconded.

Charles Becker, for skinning a dog while alive. Tried by a
jury, before Recorder Hackett, to whose surprise, as well as of
everybody else, a verdict of “ not guilty” was rendered ! !

Louis Derg, driving a horse with both breasts galled. Fined
$20 by Recorder Hackett.

Thomas Delany, abandoning a lame horse. Fined $20 by-
Justice Kelly. -

George Wolff, driving a horse with a sore back. Fined $5 by
Justice Kelly.

Martin Keery, driving a horse with a very sore foot. Fined
$10 by Justice Kelly.

 

George Bruch, driving a horse with back and breast sore.
Fined $10 by Justice Kelly.

Peter Fitzsommons, driving a pair of horses before a coach,
unfit for use. Fined $10 by Justice Dowling.

Isaac Sontager, driving a horse unﬁt for use, before a wagon
loaded with twenty-seven hind quarters of beef, besides mut-
ton. Fined $10 by Justice Dowling.

John Tansey, driving a horse before a stage of the Broadway
and Bleeker street line, unfit for use. Bail forfeited.

 




Dec.

. 14.

. 16.

.14.

. 16.

. 16.

. 13.

. 14.

. 15.

. 18.

.2.

H

.21.

.21.

.21.

. 23.

59

Timothy Collins, driving a horse with a raw sore on each side
of its back. Fined $10 by Justice Kelly.

Philo Beam, beating a horse over the head with a stick and
jerking its mouth. Fined $10, by Justice Kelly.

John Heﬁ'ern, driving a horse with a sore back. Fined $5 by
Justice Kelly.

Charles Shaffer, causing a dog to bite a horse so that the blood
ﬂowed from the wound. Fined $20 by Justice Kelly.

John \Vardell, driving a sore horse. Fined $5 by Justice
Kelly.

 

Proctor, driving a lame horse. Fined $10 by Justice
Eames. ‘

Charles Englegee, beating a horse over the head with a stick.
Judgment suspended by Justice Riley.

Captain \Valsh, refusing to receive a complaint at the Station-
house against M. Galvin, was tried before the Police Commis
sioners.

Alexander Reynolds, driving a horse unﬁt for use. Pleaded
guilty, and judgment suspended by Justice Kelly.

Thomas McCormick, driving a horse with a sore on each
breast. Fined $10 by Justice Kelly.

Michael McGin, kicking a horse. Fined $10 by Justice Kelly.

Thomas Day, beating a horse on the ribs and neck. Fined
$15 by Justice Kelly. 5’ '
1
Michael Galerdur, beating two horses over tl ead and body.
Fined $15 by Justice Kelly.

John Johnson, driving a horse unfit fonus'e. Fined $10 by
Justice Kelly. /
I

John Connor, driving a horse having 'a' running sore on two of

‘its, feet. Tried by a Jury, and acquitted, before Recorder Hacket.

23.

Henry McNamara, beating a horse over the head with the butt
end of his whip. Dismissed by Justice Kelly, the complainant
being absent. ’

 




 

 

60

John Griﬁin, driving a horse with a running sore. Fined $55
by Justice Kelly.

Daniel Donovan, driving a horse with two large sores on its
breasts. Fined $10 by Justice Walsh.

Joseph Doyle, driving a very lame horse. Fined $10 by
Justice Lynch.

James Van Cot-t, cruelly using a horse. Fined $55 by Justice-
Kelly.

James Giddings, ﬁghting cocks in the pit, 280 Hudson Avenue-
Fined $5 by Justice \Valsh.

\Villiam Derrick, driving a lame and sore horse. Fined $55
by Justice Kelly.

Peter McCarty, beating a horse with a large, heavy Whip.
Fined $15 by Justice Kelly.

John Hurley, driving a horse with a sore breast. Finedl$5
by Justice Kelly.

Patrick Cain, driving a horse with a raw sore on its back and,
breast. Fined $10 by Justice Kelly.

J. Rich, driving a lame horse. Judgment suspended by'
Justice Delmar. -

Patrick Allwood, driving a lame horse. Fined $35 by Justice
Voorhies.

James Kelly, driving a horse in a cruel manner. Fined $5
'by Justice Riley.

valine, cruelly killing a dog. Judgment suspended by
Justice Walsh.

Edward Br nnan, driving a lame horse, covered with sores.
Fined $10 by Justice Lynch.

Joseph Terhune, driving a horse with two large running sores
on its back. Fined $53 by Justice Dowling.

M. L. \Veston, abandoning a horse to die. Acquitted by Jus- .
tice Dowling.

 




Jan.

Jan.

Jan.

Jan.

Jan.

Jan.

Jan.

Jan.

Jan.

Jan.

Jan.

Jan.

11.

11.

11.

.11.

10.

. 10.

10.

13.

    

    

61

Victor Berthand, throwing boiling water on a cat. Discharged
by Justice Dowling. complainant absent.

Thomas Currie, driving a horse with a running sore on its back.
Pleaded guilty, and ﬁned $5 by Justice Dowling.

M. Dollon, driving a horse with sores on its back and breast.
Pleaded guilty, and ﬁned $553 by Justice Dowling.

Philip Loigue, driving a mule with two sores on its side.
Fined $55 by Justice Dowling.

James O’Donnell, driving a pair of sore horses. Pleaded guilty,
and fined $5 by Justice Dowling.

Thomas Sheey, driving a sore horse, and jerking its mouth,
Fined $5 by J ustice'Dowling.

H. Ledendoﬂ‘, throwing a dog on the railroad track, by which
act its legs were cut off. Sentenced to the Penitentiary for six
months.

Patrick Keogan, driving a horse weak and unﬁt for use.
Fined $10 by Justice Dowling.

J. McAuliﬁ'e, setting a dog on a cat. Discharged by Justice
Dowling. '

M. Killian, stabbing a horse with a dung-fork in the haunch.
Discharged by Justice Dowling.

N. Ellis, keeping cows in an unhealthy condition. Fined $50
by Justice Riley, and imprisonment in the Penitentiary till paid.

N. Ellis, selling impure milk. Fined 8:30 by Justice Riley,
and imprisonment until paid.

Richard Gurkin, in the employ of N. Ellis, for feeding cows
with boiling distillery waste. Judgment suspended by Justice

Riley.

William McMannus, driver of car 124, Bleecker street and
Fulton Ferry Railroad Company, driving a team of horses up
the grade between Pearl and Duane, containing forty passen—
gers; ground covered with snow; horses exhausted by the
effort. Discharged by Justice Dowling, with a recommenda— ~
tion that another horse be used on the grade.




, «mg—- ».-—..~...,V,M_-_,_

62

Francis Degan, driving a lame and sore team of horses.
Fined $10 by Justice Dowling.

Max Hileman, driving a truck with ﬁfteen calves, eight in one
crate and seven in the other, too closely packed ; was unable to
get them on their feet, and he commenced beating and kicking
them. Fined $10 dollars by Justice Dowling.

Gavin Rankin, beating a horse twelve or ﬁfteen times over
the head with the handle of a whip. Fined $5 by Justice
Dowling.

Joseph Fishbon, driving a sore horse. Fined $10 by Justice
Walsh.

Bernard Boyle, cruelty to a horse. Fined $5 by Justice Walsh.

B. Cahill, driving a horse with a raw sore on its breast.
Fined 855 by Justice Dowling.

William Sands, driving a lame horse. Fined $55 by Justice
Dowling.

James Thornton, beating a horse over the head with a Whip.
Discharged by Justice Dowling, complainant being absent.

B. Shonnick, beating one of his horses on the head and body
with the butt end of a whip. Discharged by Justice Dowling
with a caution.

Henry Wilhelms, driving a sore horse. Fined 835 by Justice
Dowling.

Jerry Larry, driving 'a sore horse. Discharged by Justice
Dowling.

Martin May, driving a sore horse. Discharged by Justice
Dowling.

J. Duﬁ'y, driving a horse with a sore and swollen leg. Fined
$310 by Justice.

E. Murphy, driving a sore horse. Discharged by Justice
Dowling.

Thomas King, driving a sore horse. -Dismissed by Justice
Dowling, complainant being absent.

 

 




 

    

{W
60
Jan. 25. George Kedney, driving a sore horse. Dismissed by Justice

Dowling.

Jan. 27. Walter Craig, driving a sore horse. Fined $5 by Justice
Bixby.

Jan. 27. M. Daly, driving a lame horse, before car 137 of the Belt Rail-
road. Fined $5 by Justice Bixby.

Jan. 27. Isaac Freedenburgh, driving a disabled horse. Fined $10 by
Justice Bixby.

.Jan. 27. \Valter Howe, driving a sore horse. Discharged by Justice
Bixby.

Jan.27. John Riley, driving a sore horse. Discharged by Justice
Bixby.

Jan. 29. H. H. Reid, driving his stage against stage No. 170, Eighth
street line, badly cutting one of the horses legs. Fined $25 and
twenty days in prison, by Justice Dowling.

Jan. 29. Felix McCulloch, driving a lame horse. Fined $10 by Justice
Dowling.

Jan. 29. Peter Donovan,‘driving a sore horse. Fined $5 by Justice
Dowling.

Jan. 29. James Kelly, driving a sore horse. Fined $10 by Justice
Dowling.

Jan. 29. H. \V. Demarest, driving a disabled horse. Judgment sus-
pended by Justice Dowling.

Jan. 29. Lawrence Mulvy, driving a sore horse. Fined $55 by Justice

Dowling.

Jan. 29. B. Clark, driving a sore horse. Fined $35 by Justice Dowling.

Jan. 29. Patrick McLaughlin, driving a lame horse. Judgment sus-
pended by Justice Dowling.

Jan. 29. Thomas Conlon, driving a sore horse. Judgment suspended
by Justice Dowling.

Jan. 29. Felix Dunn, driving a sore and lame horse. Fined $35 by
Justice Dowling.




 

 

 

NAMES OF MEMBERS.

 

Trimble George T.. . . .
*Tiﬁ‘any, Charles L .....
Tilford, John M .......
Tousey, Sinclair .......
Townley, D. O. C .....
*Tweed, William M. . . .
*Tilden, S. J ..........
Torrey, W. A .........
Thorne, Jonathan .....
Tappan, Lewis ........

Van Schaick, Edwin H.
Van Rensselaer, AleX..
Verplanck, Miss Anna.
Vanderbilt, Jacob H.. .

*Wolfe, John D ........
*Webb, William H.. . . .
*Winthrop, B. R .......
*Wood, C. B ..........
Wells, Henry .........
’X‘Walker, Mrs. John . . . .
*Waln, S. Morris .......
Williams, John Earle. .
Wheatley, William.. ..
Whetten, William.. . . .
Wainwright, J. Howard,
*Weston, Mrs. R. W.. . .
Wright, Stephen M.. . .
Wormser, Gustav .....
Watson, Nathaniel. . . .
Watson, Mrs. Ellen S. .
Watson, Miss Nellie. . .
*Wilson, J. F., M.D. . ..
Wallace, Mrs. C. D. . . .
*Ward, Samuel W. H. .
*Winslow, Lanier & Co.

 

DATE ELECTED.

AMOUNT PAID, 1869-70

 

Subscription.

Donation.

 

23 April, 1866.
21 May, “
20 Nov., “

5 April, 1867.

2 July, “

4 Dec., “

4: ‘C ‘C

1 March, 1869.

6 May, “

7 March, 187 0.

15 Nov., 1867.
7 Dee, 1868.
9 Sept, 1869.

11 Oct., “

23 April, 1866.
23 CC ‘6
23
21 May,
21 6‘
9 Jan., 1867.
14: Mar., “
21 Oct.,
15 Nov.,
6 April,
2 NOV.,
2
6 May, 1869.
9 Sept, “
11 Oct., “
9 Feb, 1870.
9 CC (C
15 Nov., 1869.
9 Feb, 1870.
13 May, “
13 CC

CC CC

CC

CC
CC
CC
CC
CC

CC

10 00

()0
00

lo
10

 

 

 




  
   
   
  
   
   
   
   

79

ADDITIONAL DONATIONS.

 

 

 

 

NAMES OF MEMBERS. Subscription. Donation.

Hattie Warren ........................ 5 00
Police-ofﬁcer VVoodruﬁ' .................. 3 00
Unknown, $4, $2, $1, $3, $1 ............. 11 00
Dr. Hopkins ........................... 2 00
Watertown ............................ 10 00
J. PursseII ............................ 10 00
“S.” ..................... . ............ 30 00
M. Henlein ............................ 5 00
Mrs. Sawyer ........................... 1 00
00

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

80

DONATIONS OF BOOKS, PAMPHLETS, AND NEWS-
PAPERS.

New York Sunday Dispatch.
New York Round Table and Citizen.
Wilkes’ Spirit of the Times.
Frank Leslie’s Illustrated Weekly.
Scottish American.

The Daily Brooklyn Union.

The Nation.

The Daily Brooklyn Eagle.

The Home Journal.

The Commonwealth.

The Clipper.

The Era.

The City Directory, donated by H. Wilson, Esq.

Laws of New York State, 1867, 1868, 1869. 6 vols.
Donated by H. Nelson, Esq., Secretary of State of
New York State.

Agricultural Reports 1867, 1868. Donated by H.
Capron, Esq., Commissioner of Agriculture, Wash-
. ington, D. C.

Report of the Iowa Agricultural Society, 1867. Do-
nated by J. M. Shaffer, Secretary of the Society.

Report of the Pennsylvania Society, 1870. Philadelphia.

 




   

    
   
   
  
  
   
   
  
   
 
   
    

81

Report of Texas Cattle Disease. Donated by Dr. E.
Harris.

Report of the Metropolitan Board of Health, 1868.
Presented by the Board.

Bulletins de la Société Protectrice des Animaux. Paris,
Mai, 1869 to Mai, 1870.

Bulletins de la Société Protectrice des Animaux.
Bruxelles, Mai, 1869 to Mai, 1870.

Report of the Board of Commissioners of Central Park,
1868. Donated by the Board.

Report of the Scottish Society for 1869.

The Animal World, a monthly magazine, published by
the Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals. London.

Manual of the Corporation of the City of New York.
Donated by John Shannon, Esq., Clerk Common
Council.

Reports of the New York State Agricultural Society for
1867, 1868. Donated by the Society. '

 

 




->-——————-

GUSTAV WORMSER.

JABEZ C. HOWE,

PHILIP MAHETT,

WILLIAM J. PECK,
V PAUL SPOFFOBD,

WILLIAM .TILDEN,

h“
r
a
an»
4‘

g
n. .
I
a
n

1

II

.D

@

During the year the Society has to mourn the
loss of the following members:—

 

 

 

 

 




To those Who may feel disposed to donate by
WILL, to the benevolent objects of this
Society, the following is submitted as a

form :—

FORM or BEQUEST.

I give and bequeath to the American Society

for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, incor-
porated by the State of New York, April, 1866,

the sum of Dollars.

 




 

- Morrisania.
. Malone.
Mllton

WOOLSEY, C. MEECH..-- .-.. .... -....

- - . - . . Richmond.

. . . - - . . . Tompkinsville.

. - - - - . .- . . . Ogdensburgh.
..---. . .-..Newburgh.

--.. ...--. ..Schenectady.

.--.-. .---.. -.Bolton.
.----. .. .-.-..Rochester.

..--.. --.. .-..-. .-.-Jamaica.
Bath

PARKHURST, J. F.-- .

DICKEY, W. D .---.

.90... .9.-
o~oonoccol

 

GRIFFITH, L. E.---.. .--..----- ---. .-..Troy.
STEPHENS, S. D., Jr.
TAYLER, H. A..---.

BUCKLEY, VVADE.---.. ...- ..-.. ...-..Port Jervis.
HINRICHS, J. C.---

BEVINS, s. H.---.
COLE, RUSSELL.-.--...
CROWLEY, 13.----.

CHUMASERO, J. 0..---.
CHAPIN, 0. B..--..
CAW, D. J.--.

K.
R
0
Y
W
E
N
F
O
T
U
0
Y
T
E
I
0
0
S
E
H
T
F
O
«b
T
N
E
G
A

 

 

 

 

 




 

BRANCH SOCIETIES.

ALBANY BRANCH.
Organized February, 1869.

ROBERT LENNOX BANKS, JOHN M. ORAPO,
President. lst Vice—President.

DUDLEY OLCOTT, Treasurer. SAMUEL R. EARLS, Secretary.

 

ERIE COUNTY BRANCH, BUFFALO, N. Y.
Organized April'4, 1867.
SILAS KINGSLEY, DANIEL D. NASH,

President. ‘ Secretary.
HENRY HOWARD, Treasurer.

 

FISHKILL BRANCH, FlSHKILL, N. Y.
Organized August, 1869.
LYMAN ROBINSON, J. HERVEY COOK,

President. Secretary.
HORATIO N. SWIFT, Treasurer.

  
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
   

 




    

   
   

87

NEW JERSEY.

New Jersey Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals.

Organized April 21, 1869.

MOSES BIGELOW, President.
R. WATSON GILDER. Secretary. AARON M. RING, Treasurer.
F. W. LEONARD, Attorney.

 

CANADA.

The Canadian Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals.

Organized April, 1869.

WILLIAM WORKMAN, President.
F. MACKENZIE, Secretary and Treasurer.

 

'Ladies’ Pennsylvania Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals.

Mrs. CAROLINE E. WHITE, President.

Miss SARAH II. DAVIDSON, Miss ELIZABETH MORRIS,
Cor. Secretary. Ree. Secretary.

Mrs. CRAIG D. RITCHIE, Treasurer.

 

MARYLAND.

Maryland Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals.

_ Organized October, 1869.

WILLIAM WOODWARD, President.
T. H. BELT, Jr., Secretary. HENRY W. ROGERS, Treasurer.

 

 

 

 




   
  
   
 
 
  
   
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
   
 
  
 
 
     

 

 

 

88

IOWA.

Scott County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals.

R. McINTOSH, Secretary.

 

MINNESOTA.

Minnesota Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals.

Organized March, 1870.

E. F. DRAKE, President.
I. F. WILLIAMS, Secretary. I. E. THOMPSON, Treasurer.

MICHIGAN.

Michigan Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Organized M'amch, 1870.

H. P. BALDWIN, President.
E. W. MEDDAU‘GH, Mrs. ISABELLA G. D. STEWART,
Rec. Secretary. Cor. Secretary.

DAVID PRESTON, Treasurer.

 

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
Washington, D. C.

Organized April, 1870.
THEODORE F. GATCHELL, President.
EDGAR J. BOORAEM, Secretary. A. S. SOLOMONS, Treasurer.




 

A

Annual Meeting, 1.

Arrests and Convictions, 45.
Agents, 52. ..

Animal Life, Waste of, 22.
Adulteration of Feed, 29.
Appeal to the Public, 32.

Books Donated, 48.
Bequest, Form of, 51.
Branch Societies, 53.
Buckley, Justice, 26.
Burns’ Bill, 31.

Bergh, Henry, Address, 1.

Charter, vii.
Committee on Nominations, 38.

D

Dog Pound, 19.
Dog and Cock Fights, 30.
Donations, 39.

Executive Committee’s Report, 40.

CONTENTS.

 

 

o+o——-——-

G

Glanders and Farcy, ‘29.
Garvin, S. B. 36.

H

Horses Killed, 34.
Honorary Members, vi.

Inﬂuence of the Society, 12.
Judiciary, The, 2'2.
Inspection of Stables, 21.

L

Lectures, 11.
Legislation, 31.
Law Proposed, 34,
Legacies, 38.

M
Metropolitan Police Force, 23.
Morris, S. D., 36.

Members, 39.
Metropolitan Fire Department, 36.

  

Notice, ii.

  

 

 

 

 




 

 

T

6.
3
e,
1.1
4b
.70
a
O
f
e
e
B
0.1
O
n
0
. 1
oh
3
+0
r
O
p
S
D
a
l
T

7.
3
t}
r
0
p
e
R
S
7r
e
r
u
S
a
mo
1
T

Williamsburgh Fire Ins. 00., 35.
Waste of Animal Life, '22.

AM
1
SI!
1
a
.m
n
A
d
e
1
b
a
.m
D
P
.m
k
C
u
P
T

Stables, Inspection of, 21.
Societies in the U. S., 34, :34.

90
Swill Milk, :23.

c.5»~,,,-_‘_, A»

V
p

Pigeon Matches, 15.
Press, The, ‘23.

S

Obituary Record, 50.

Oﬁicers’
OverloadinU, 30.

Secretary’s Report, 10
Street Railroads, 19.

 

 

 

 




ml ‘ *
:41 > H

11/ ‘37 “f.

H ”.1777-_‘,,
I
m |1H|1HL

Hill“
..,a

 

 

 

 

 

 

\fll‘l

/l¢: (I [3;] J]:

.
\

47/”’

/7 11/

In #l/ﬁf
A’
>23:-
:ifé :
;:

tut/1::

x

\‘ x§$\\
( (“Ce if”
@5923 px‘rft J)
6// ,v 11/
// I
ow” // ”xix

. .‘ . ‘ A . -‘
. :"fs—wAW'IV‘FﬁwAﬁ-ﬂva I A' A V i .A
AA A, A l‘ A ' - ‘s A ’

_.“

 




 

 

 

 

AMEl-HOAN SOCIETY

FOR THE

JPPPIJPnﬁnn of Gruvlfg fn Knimals.’

INCORPORATED BY THE )STA’I‘E OF NEW YORK

OFFICE, NO. 696 BROADWAY, CORNER FOURTH STREET,

N211) mark.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




|
ﬂWA ._..._._A

 

 

AMERICAN SOCIETY

FOR THE

Prehpnfinn of drum}; fa Knimals.

)NCORPORM‘ED BY THE )STATE OF NEW YORK,

4»
0
4»

Fourth Annual Report.

 

 

 

OFFICE, N0. 696 BROADWAY, CORNER FOURTH STREETT

New mark.

 




ANNUAL MEETING

OF THE

American $011111 1111 1111 ﬁreventiun of ($111111 11 1111111111.

 

1687©¢

 

0mm nf the $0ci2tg,

696 Broadway, corner of Fourth Street,

NEW YORK, 13th May, 1870,

The Annual Meeting of the Society, held at Asso-
ciation Hall, this evening, HENRY BERGH in
the Chair; was called to order by the Presi-
dent, who opened the proceedings by the fol—
lowing address:

LADIES AND GENTLEMEN:

Mankind, in their own estimate of themselves, are
prone to believe that the Maker of all things exercises
a special and peculiar concern about their physical be-
ing. This is an error, founded in selﬁshness; for, the
seemingly insigniﬁcant ant, which burrows in the ground
is as important to the inﬁnite scheme Of creation as the
mightiest man on earth ! The great poet has said——

“ The creeping vermin, loathsome to the sight,
And charged perhaps with venom, that intrudes

A visitor unwelcome into scenes
Sacred to neatness or repose—th’ alcove,

 




 

9

may have turned defeat into victory! Yes, when we
come to reﬂect, my hearers, how can we fail to be pro-
foundly attached to these poor creatures that are so good,
so faithful, so affectionate, so devoted; which consecrate
their whole lives to our service, to our pleasures, to our
comforts; and which in many instances cannot survive
our loss?

 




 

 

    

17

away soaked the sod of the arena with human blood, to gratify the
thirst for “ sport ” on the part of a depraved people, and may be placed
in the category of the bull, cock and dog ﬁghts, &c., of the present day.

The innocent sports of a people-are almost as necessary to them as
the food they eat, but all amusements damaging to their moral and
physical well-being should be, and are, condemned by Divine and hu-
man law. To take an immortal work of the Deity, and, after assem~
bling a crowd of spectators, deliberately tear it to pieces merely for fun,
is, in my opinion, a double crime, by reason of its disastrous reaction on
the human character. Cannot the inventive genius of sportsmen discover
a moving target which will serve to verify their skill, and not inﬂict
mutilation, death and demoralization? I think it can.

You are pleased further to remark that this “ sport ” is sanctioned by
the most prominent gentlemen of France and England, and was approved.
of by persons of the highest standing at the late Convention of sportsmen.
I need only remind you that the practice of making two men at a time
serve as targets in a duel, was heretofore esteemed honorable to the
principals and friends of those who assisted in it, and such erroneous
judgment was shared, among others, by gentlemen of the highest dis~
tinction. A more healthy public sentiment, however, is now correcting
this distorted sense of honor.

In the performance of my thankless duty, one of its consequences is,
not unfrequently, the censure of the public and the forfeiture of the good
opinion of gentlemen, like yourself, whom I respect; but I am consoled
by the reﬂection that in all I do I suffer no other sentiments to inﬂuence
me than those of justice and compassion.

I have the honor to be
Your most obedient servant,
HENRY BERGH, President.

The Executive Committee, at its meeting on
11th October, unanimously approved the action of
the President; and the result communicated to
Mr. Roosevelt, that gentleman thereupon con~
eluded to test the law, by arranging a “match,”
and notifying this Society of the time and place
where it should take place; but for reasons already
assigned, no interference was interposed, and the
match came off.




  

? 1')

The well-known and horrible cruelti‘es inﬂicted
on the animals conﬁned in these pest-houses, in-
duced the President to visit them again in Jan-
uary last, in company with Mr. Campbell, Rev.
H. D. Northrop, Messrs. Meeker, Edwards and
Hudson, and the following account gives an im-
perfect idea of these places :—

On entering the premises the stench was so sick-
ening as to suggest a speedy withdrawal therefrom ;
and the ventilation was so bad, that it was with
difﬁculty the party could breathe; while it was
impossible to discern an object ten feet distant!
The ﬂoor was saturated, and the cows were cov-
ered with ﬁlth, and bloated and diseased; feeding-
troughs slimed with swill, and the timber of the
building sticky with the noxious vapors arising
from these death-prisons.

In a yard in the rear of one of the stables lay
a dead cow, which must, from its appearance, have
died of starvation.

In one of the establishments were twenty-seven
swill-tanks, some of them having a capacity of
1,000, and others 500 gallons.

In the prosecution of these cases, much unnec-
essary delay and many unlooked for obstacles were
encountered. After several postponements and ad-
journments, that of Tongas was ﬁnally tried be-
fore Justice Riley, and a jury, and after being out
about ﬁve hours, could not agree upon a verdict—

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   




 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
   

extinguishes this Society and sanctions a return to the practice of all
those cruelties on brute creatures which existed previous to its forma-
tion.

It forbids the interference with any person in charge of an animal, no
matter what its condition or inability to work or move may be ; and it
enjoins the most complete immunity from arrest of every person found
torturing or tormenting any creature, or prosecution therefor ; provided
any one can be found within the boundaries of this State who is Willing
to avow himself the owner of said animal.

In other words, if you chance to see an overburdened animal, be it a
horse attached to a car, omnibus, truck or Other vehicle, having its leg
fractured or otherwise disabled, it forbids you to interfere with a plea of
mercy in its behalf, and constitutes the angry or inhuman driver the
sole arbiter of its life and sufferings.

Christian men and women of this great city and State! You whose
lives are guided by a sense of justice and humanity; you who daily
share the blessings which these mute servants of our race procure you,
and look to you only for protection from needless cruelties in return, are
you willing that your Legislature shall deprive them of the slender pro-
tection which the present inadequate laws afford them “I Are you willing
that the barbarous scenes which once met your View of animals bound
and piled on top one another and jolted over the stones like blocks of
wood; the merciless pounding of the generous horse with hickory cart-
rungs ; the restoration of the dog-pit and the bear fight, along with the
numerous other savageries which disﬁgured our civilization before the
existence of the association which has so long and so successfully com-
bated them, shall all be revived?

If so, remain quiet and let this most iniquitous bill pass, and on the
following day you will behold the doors of this institution closed, its
merciful emblems taken down, and those friends of humanity to the de—
fenceless brute scattered, never, perhaps, to be reunited for a smilar pur—
pose. If, I say, it is your pleasure to consign that noble creature, which
spares you the fatigues of locomotion and serves you so faithfully in so
many ways, to the irresponsible fury of merciless men, then suffer this
emanation of an alien’s brain, aided by a committee’s chairman, to be-
come a law.

Some of the worthiest of living men called this Society into being;
the contributions and the sympathy of the rich and poor, male and fe-
male, sustain it ; its ofﬁcers are capable and unselﬁsh, and its beneﬁcent
example is gradually extending over our entire land. Shall these bene-

 




 

‘ .

 

41

within the scope of the Secretary’s Report, they would submit the fol-
lowing :—

That they elected N. M. Beckwith to ﬁll the vacancy in their body
caused by the inability of Thos. C. Acton to attend its meetings.

That they remitted the annual dues of Drs. A. Liantard and F. J.
Wilson, by constituting them Life Members of the Society, in consider—
ation of theirivaluable services in aid of the objects of the Society.

On the 6th December, 1869, they passed the following Preamble and
Resolution :—

Whereas, Our colleague A. H. Campbell, has at all times manifested
an untiring zeal in the furtherance of the cause of Mercy, and by his
course endeared himself to every lover of Humanity, thereby mate-
rially aiding the objects of this Institution; therefore be it

Resolved, That the President be and he is hereby requested to pur-
chase a suitable testimonial and present the same to Mr. Campbell, as a
mark of the appreciation of this Society, of his voluntary services in
the prevention and punishment of cruelty to animals.

At a meeting of the Committee held 3d January, 1870, the President
reported that in pursuance of the resolution passed at a meeting of the
Committee held 6th December, 1869, he had purchased a gold watch-
chain for Mr. A. H. Campbell, and that the same had been presented Mr.
Campbell, by him, with the Preamble and Resolution adopted 6th
December, 1869.

Respectfully submitted.
JOHN DAVID WOLFE,

JAMES STOKES, Committee.
CHARLES H. MARSHALL,

 




 

ass.-

Aug. 14.

{l

(J

Aug. 15.

Aug. 17.

Aug. 17.

Aug. 18.

Aug. 21.

Aug. 21.

Aug. 95.

Aug. 31.

Sept. 52.

Sept. 2.

Sept. 2.

49

John Sulsey, l

James Burke, for the same offense as the above.
W. E. Davis, J

On the President of the Company promising that the condi—
tion of the horses should be remedied, the suits against the
drivers were withdrawn.

Thomas Farran, driving a lame horse before car. 17 of the
Forty-second and Grand Street Railroad. Discharged by J us~
tice Dodge with a reprimand.

Matthew Hanley, driving a horse with a large sore on its
back, on the head and on the neck. Judgment suspended by
Justice Riley.

John Burke, police—ofﬁcer, 42d Precinct, for perjury in the
case of John Breslin. A few days after he killed aman and ran
away !

Michael Kane, driving a horse before a truck, having a split
hoof. Dismissed by Justice Hogan.

Nicholas Burk, beating his horse over the head and body
with a stick. Judgment suspended by Justice Riley.

Edward Fitzgerald, running into a Coney Island car, and
thereby causing a fracture of one of the horses’ legs. Fined
six months in the Penitentiary by Justice Walsh.

Andrew McDowell, torturing and beating one of his horses,
before a coach on Coney Island. Discharged by Justice
Walsh.

John Phalon, policeman, needlessly shooting and wounding a
dog in Eighty—ninth street, near Avenue A. Discharged by
Justice Dowling, the Complainant not appearing.

John Hays and James Conody, driving horses with sores on
their backs. Fined $10 each by Justice Walsh.

William Stapleton, driving a horse with six running sores on
its body. Fined $25 by Justice Walsh.

Patrick Maguire, driving a horse with a running sore on its
right foot. Discharged with a reprimand.

 

 




'0'

 

Nov.

Nov.

Nov.

Nov.
Nov.
Nov.

Nov.

Nov.

Nov.

Nov.

30.

30.

12.

15.

24.

30.

13.

57

 

Thomas Tierney, driver, and Creighton, owner, for driv~
ing and causing to be driven, a horse with sores on its body.

Each ﬁned $5 by Justice Lynch.

Julius Jacobs, driving a lame horse. Fined $10 by Justice
Kelly.

Henry Timms, driving a lame horse before car 102, Montrose
avenue and Johnson street Railroad. Fined $55 by Justice
Voorhies.

V. Peter, driving a lame horse before a loaded truck. Fined
$10 by Justice Eames.

Jerome Husted, causing a horse to be used with a sore on its
back. Fined $10 by Justice Eames.

Patrick Quinn, beating a horse with a shovel. J udgment
suspended by Justice Eames.

Catherine Quinn, causing a horse to be driven before a swill
cart, With two large sores on its back. Judgment suspended
by Justice Walsh.

 

Seiler, a veterinary surgeon, for mutilating the throat
etc., of a horse; the animal dying from the treatment. J udg-
ment suspended, and the defendant reprimanded by Justice
Flames.

0. Wrede, driving a lame horse. Discharged by Justice
Eames, on the ground that the defendant had been advised to
drive him by a so-called veterinary surgeon.

-— Gildersleeve, causing C. Wrede to drive a horse lame
from decension of the fore-feet. Discharged by Justice Walsh.

Henry Hurax, driving a horse with a very sore foot (afﬂicted
with guittor). Fined $10 by Justice Kelly.

Robert Hillyard, driving a horse with a large running ulcer.
Fined $10 by Justice Kelly.

James Simmons, driving a lame horse. Pleaded guilty, and
Judgment suspended by Justice Kelly, at the request of Mr.
Bergh.

Gilbert Johnson, driving a horse with a sore on its breast
Fined $5 by Justice Kelly.

 




,,, ~ e
‘ ' "N r guru

"" ~-~‘~,n_-,,,a.‘rA..--. . .7 ,7 _ A.

. 29.

. 29.

.1.

6-1

Charles Dempsey, driving a horse with a sore breast. Judg-
ment suspended by Justice Dowling.

. 29. James Levy, beating a horse over the head with the butt end

of a whip. Fined $10 by Justice Dowling.

Daniel Miller, driving a lame and sick horse. Fined $53 by
Justice Dowling.

Jacob Vechter, driving a horse with a running sore on its back
Fined $25 by Justice Bixby.

Thomas Bowes, driving a lame and sore horse before stage 151,
Broadway and Eighth street line. Fined $10 by Justice Bixby.

Michael Ford, driving a sore horse. Fined $10 by Justice
Bixby.

Thomas Mangin, driving a sore horse. Fined $55 by Justice
Bixby.

James Ahearn, driving a sore horse. Fined $10 by Justice
Bixby. .

Thomas McGinniss, plucking chickens alive. Acquitted by
Justice Dowling.

John Johnson, driving a sore horse. Fined 3.5 by' Justice
Bixby.

John Chauncy, driving a sore horse. Fined $55 by Justice
Bixby.

Patrick Kinney, driving a sore horse. Fined $5 by Justice
Bixby.

John Tongas, feeding cows with the boiling distillery waste.
Tried by a jury, who failed to agree, before Justice Riley.

John Pardee, driving a pair of sore horses. Fined $10 by
Justice Dowling. '

James Norton, ——-g Brown, James Reilly, Peter Haskins,
Thomas Heeney, D. Foley, George Belshar, aiding and abetting
at a cock ﬁghting main at 280 Hudson avenue, Brooklyn, on
the night of the lst inst. Fined each $10 and twenty-ﬁve days in
prison by Justice Walsh.

 




    

    

6-5
Feb. 1. J. O. Donnell, driving a horse unﬁt for use. Fined 135 by
Justice Lynch.

Feb. 4. J. Sayre, driving a spavined horse. Fined $55 by Justice
Lynch.

Feb. 10. Lawrence Gordon, driving a sore horse. Fined $10 by Justice 7
Bixby.

Feb. 10. M. Morrison, driving a sore horse. Fined $15 by Justice
Bixby.

Feb. 10. Dennis O’Brien, driving a lame horse. Fined $10 by Justice
Bixby.

Feb. 12. Frank Acker, driving a horse unﬁt for use. Judgment sus-
pended by Justice Dowling.

Feb. 12. John Dorsey, driving a sore horse. Fined $5 by Justice
Dowling.

'Feb.12. John Bronstead, driving a disabled horse. Judgment sus—
pended by Justice Dowling.

Feb. 12. \Villiam Gilman, driving a disabled horse. Judgment sus—
pended by Justice Dowling.

Feb. 12. John Temple, driving a sore horse. Fined $10 by Justice
Dowling.

Feb. 11. A. Dietz, driving a disabled horse. Fined 855 by Justice
Walsh.

Jan. 5. R. Mitchell, driving a sore horse. Judgment suspended by
Justice Eames.

Jan. 11. M. Burkhart, driving a lame horse. Fined 5510 by Justice
Eames.

Jan. 18. Charles Ryan, driving a lame horse. Tried by a jury, and
acquitted, before Justice Lynch.

Jan. 21. Andrew Miller, driving a lame horse. Fined $55 by Justice
Eames.

Jan. 21. John A. Henry, driving a lame horse. Judgment suspended
by Justice Eames.

 




 

Jan.

Jan.

Feb.

Feb.

Feb.

Feb.

Feb.

Feb.

Feb.

Feb.

Feb.

Feb.

a

1.

66

George Ackerman, driving a lame horse. Judgment sus-
pended by Justice Eames.

John Keller, causing a lame horse to be driven. Judgment
suspended by Justice Eames.

Hildrith, driving disabled horses. Discharged by
Justice Lynch.

Patrick Fay, driving a sore horse. Dismissed by Justice COX.

Michael Purser, driving a sore horse. Fined $15 by Justice
Buckley.

J. O’Donnell, driving a spavined horse. Acquitted by jury,
before Justice Lynch.

Jullll Beiler, driving a horse with a broken ankle. Fined $15
by Justice \Valsh.

Thomas Pleasant, driving a team of disabled horses. Fined
$5 by Justice Dowling.

Daniel Holland, driving a sore horse. Fined $53 by Justice
Dowling.

John Monahan, driving a sore. horse. Dismissed, complainant
not appearing.

E. M. Connolly, driving a horse With a. split hoof and a sore
breast. Fined $25 by Justice Riley.

John Fox, driving a pair of sore horses. Judgment suspended
by Justice Bixby.

John Kinney, driving a sore horse. Bail forfeited.

Peter Flynn, driving a sore horse. Bondsman died and the de-
fendant escaped.

John McCormick, drivinga horse with a fearful sore on its back,
causing sympathetic sickness. Fined $10 by Recorder Hackett.

Michael Kelly, driving a sore horse, unﬁt for use. Bail for~
feited.

Feb. 10. William Scanlon, driving a lame horse. Discharged by J us-
tice Bixby.

 




 

    

67

Feb. 15. George Price, driving a sore horse. Discharged by Justice
Dowling.

Feb. 17. \Villiam McIntee, driving a sore horse. Fined $10 by Jus-
tice Dowling.

Feb. 19. James Coyle, driving a sore horse and beating it. Fined $15
or ﬁfteen days’ imprisonment, by Justice Lynch.

Feb. ‘21. Robert O’Grady and seven others, keeping cows in the swill-
milk stables, First and North Fifth streets, \Villiamsburgh, tied
up in narrow stalls, without light and proper ventilation, and
in a ﬁlthy condition. These cases were dismissed by Justice
Buckley. The parties were afterwards indicted by the Grand

Jury.

Feb. 23. Patrick Moran, causing a horse to be driven with ulcerated.
knee and bone spavin. Fined $10 by Justice Walsh.

Feb. ‘26. John Miller, beating a horse over the head with the butt end.
of a whip. Fined $10 by Recorder Hackett.

Feb. ‘26. Patrick Rooney, driving a lame horse. Dismissed by Justice-
Walsh.

Mam’h 1. J. Gannon, driving a horse with a sore breast and back. Dis—
charged by Justice Lynch.

March 7. Michael Kegan, driving a horse with two sores on its back.
Discharged by Justice Shandley.

March 8. W illard F. Fox, driving a pair of horses one of which was.
very lame and unﬁt for work. Fined $10 by Justice Hogan.

March 9. Michael Levy, driving a horse with the right fore-foot cracked.
and the matter running from it. Discharged by Justice Shand—

ley.

March 12. Henry Heinlein, driving a horse with a raw sore on its.
breast and lame in one of its feet. Fined $10 by Justice

Hogan.

March 12. F. Schubert, causing his son to drive a lame horse. Tried
before Justice Lynch and a jury, and acquitted.

March 12. Martin Hoffman, driving a lame and sore horse. Fined 9,510-
by Justice Hogan.

 




    
     
        
   
    

68

March 12. Bernard McMahon, driving a horse with a sore back.
Fined $10 by Justice Hogan.

March 12. Peter Dolan, driving a horse with two sores on its back.
Judgment suspended by Justice Hogan.

March 12. James H. Blake, beating a team of horses over their heads
and bodies with a whip. Judgment suspended by Justice Ho-
gan.

 
   
     
        
       

 

March 15. \Valter Skiff, driving a sore horse. Fined $5 by Justice
Hogan.

       
    
  
      
     
 
 

 

Feb. 28. C. Tolen, driving a lame horse. Fined $5 by Justice Voor—
hies.

March 7. Unknown, whipping his team up the grade at Seventh street
ferry, Brooklyn. Released on promise of not offending again.

  
  
     
   
   
    
   
    
   
   
    

March 10. \Villiam Stevenson a boy, driving a lame horse.
reprimanded by Justice Voorhies.

Severely

  

March 10.. Henry Kapper, driving a disabled horse. Fined $10 or ten
days ’ imprisonment by J ustiCe Eames.

March 15. Patrick Brennan, driving a disabled and lame horse. Tried
by a jury, found guilty, and. ﬁned $5 by Justice Lynch.

March 19. H. Epenger, driving a very lame horse. Fined $15 by Jus—
tice Ledwith.

March 19. John Hughes, driving a sore horse. Judgment suspended
by Justice Ledwith.

March 19. George Peters, abusing his horse. Fined $5 by Justice Led-
with.

March 19. Edward Ryan, driving a lame horse. Fined $15 by Justice
Ledwith.

 

March 25. Thomas Bennett, James Devine, John Ridgway, George
Prescott, William Brandon, William Collins, William Varley,
John Murphy, Thomas Dougal, John Wilson and H. D. Payne,
ﬁghting dogs at the corner of Greene and Amity streets. Dis-
charged by Alderman Bryan Reilly !

 

 

March 25. Francis Livingston and James Hughes, for the same Offence.
Now under indictment.

 




 

    

(39

March 26. George \V. Holden, driving a pair of sore horses. Fined
$5 by Justice Ledwith.

March 26. Dennis Leahey, driving a sore horse. Fined $3 bv Justice
Ledwith.

March 26. R. A. Mulvey, driving a lame horse. Fined $35 by Justice
Ledwith.

March 26. John Wilson, driving a sore horse. Fined $5 by Justice
Ledwith.

March 31. James Farrell, driving a horse with two large ulcers on its
back. Fined $25 by Justice Scott.

March 31. James Kemp, driving a horse unﬁt for use. Fined $5 by
Justice Voorhies.

March 31. Jacob Kelper, overloading a truck with nine casks and four
barrels of Rhine wine, average weight 9,000 lbs. Reprimanded
by Justice Fowler and discharged.

April ‘2. P. Herrigan, driving a sore horse. Fined $35 by Justice Led-
With.

April 2. William Crummey, driving a lame horse. Fined $5 by Jus—
tice Voorhies. ‘

April 9. Michael Farrell, driving a sore horse. Judgment suspended
by Justice Hogan.

April 9. Joseph Scoﬁeld, driving a truck loaded with thirty-ﬁve bar-
rels of ﬂour and one sack of salt, drawn by two horses ; weight
9,000 lbs. Dismissed by Justice Shandley.

April 9. A groom in the employ of General Ingalls, for abandoning a
horse in the street.

April 14. Richard Fitzgerald, driving a sore horse. Fined $15 by Jus-
tice Ledwith.

April 14. John Richardson, driving a lame and sore horse. Fined $35
by Justice Ledwith.

Smith, beating his horses. Discharged by Justice
Shandley.

April 20.

 

 




70

April 21. John Haﬁ’, beating a dog, breaking its leg and destroying its
eye. Discharged by Justice Ledwith.

April 21. \Villiain McDonnell, driving a lame horse. Dismissed by
the Grand Jury.

April 23. J. C. Rongan, driving a mule before a coal cart with two
large running sores on its back. Fined $35 by Justice Ledwith.

April 28. Casper Kellbrum, abandoning a horse in the street. Fined
$15 by Justice Ledwith.

April 30. John Collins, driving a sore horse. Fined 555 by Justice Led-
with.

April 30- JOhn 0. Curtis, driving a horse with a sore mouth. Fined.
$5 by Justice Walsh.

April 30. Thomas Murphy, driving a horse with a lame shoulder and:
beating him. Judgment suspended by Justice Eames.

April 30. Thomas Lawler, driving a lame horse. Judgment suspended
by Justice Eames.

 




 

 

LIST OF MEMBERS AND DONATIONS.

 

Those marked * are Life Members.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

‘ AMOUNT PAID, 1869—70.

NAMES OF MEMBERS. DATE ELECTED.

Subscription. Donation.
*Aspinwall, William H. 23 April, 1866.
Acton, Thos. C ........ 23 “ “
*Appleton, D. S ....... 21 May, “
Aspinwall, Lloyd ...... 29 Nov., “
American News Go. . . . 9 March, 1867.
*Anthony & Hall ..... ‘ . 21 Oct, “ . . . .
Appleton M1s. Wm. .15 May, “ 5 00
*A1nold, Constable&Co 9 Feb., “ 100 00
'*Brown, James ........ 23 April 1866. 100 00
Brooks, Erastus ....... 23 . . . . . . . .
Bellows, HenryW.ReV. 23 “ “ 10 00
Bryant, William C. . . . 23 “ “ . . . .
*Belmont, August ...... 23 “ “ . . . .
Bristed, C. Astor ...... 23 “ “ 10 00
*Bergh, Henry ........ 23 “ “ . . . .
*Bennett, J as. Gordon. 21 May,“
*Bixby, John M ........ 21 “ “
Berghaus, Albert” .21 “ “
*Booth, Edwin ......... 23 April, “
*Ball, Black & Co ...... 20 Nov., “
*Babcock, Bros. & 00.. 21 Oct, 1867. . . . .
Brown, Mrs. Addison” 2 March, 1868. 5 00
*Bonner, Robert ....... 4 May,“ . . . .
*Barney, D. N ......... 7 Dec., “
Buchanan, Perkins &

Co ................. 4 Jan., 1869. ....
Blodget, Charles F. 4 “ “ 10 00
Barnard, John T. Jr 1 March,“ . . . . . . . .
Bell, Mrs. George ..... 4 June“ 5 00 10 00

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

NAMES OF MEMBERS.

DATE ELECTED.

AMOUNT PAID, 1869—70.

 

Subscription. Donation.

 

Bissell, Wm. H., M.D..
Bartlett, Edw. Gr., M.D.
Buckley, Wade .......
Bathgate, Chas. W. . . .
Beckwith, N. M .......
Beers, Edwin .........
Bliss, Archibald M. . . .
*Brown, Stewart .......

Cooper, Peter .........
Cisco, John J .........
*Clews, Henry .........
*Claflin, Horace B .....
Collins, Mrs. C. E .....
Craven, A. W. ........
Clark, James A. . . .
*Colby, Gardner R .....
*Chittenden, S. B. & Co.
Cary, William F ......
*Campbell, A. H .......
*Crapo, John M .......
*Corse, Israel ..........
Connolly, R. B .......
Conkling, F. A .......
Coles, B. G ...........
Coles, Mrs. B. G ......
Clift, Smith ..........
Campbell, John .......
Caldwell, W. S .......
Coggeshall, Edwin W..
. Culver, E. D ..........
Cocheu, Frederick .....

Dix, John A .........
Dilks, George W ......
*Duncan, W. Butler.. . .
*Dinsmore, W. B ......
*Dolan, Miss Ellen .....
*Delmonico, Lorenzo. . .

 

4 June, 1869.
9 Sept, “
9 CC CC
9 CC CC
7 Dec., “

4: April, 1870.
C

4 CC C
13 May, “

23 April, 1866.

23 CC CC
23 CC CC
20 Nov., “
2 Mar., 1867.
5 April, “
22 Nov., 1866.
31 Opt, 1867.
g1 CC CC
7 Jan., 1868.
gApril, ::
6 CC CC
15 Nov., 1867.
7 May, 1868.
7 CC CC
4 Jan., 1869.

12 Feb., 1867.
19 June, “

 

10
10
5
10
10
25
500

10
10

 

166.60

 

 




 

 

I
I

 

 

NAMESCW‘MEMBERS

 

 

 

DATE ELECTED.

Subscription.

 

 

*Darling, Griswold & C0.
Dexter, George. . . . . . .‘
Doremus, Thomas C. . .
Dodge, William E .....
Dodge, William E., J r..
Dillon, Robert J .......

Ely, Nathan C. . . . .
Ewen, John ..........
Ewen, Miss Caroline. .

Ehrhardt, LH. G., M.D.

*Fish, Hamilton .......
Fargo, William G. . . .
Francis, S. W., M.D..
Farrell, John .........

*Faile, Thomas H ......
French, Richard ......
Fairbanks, Mrs ........

Greeley, Horace .......
*Griswold, George ......
Gardner, A. K ........
*Gibert, F. E ..........
*Greer, Turner & Co. . .
*Garrison & Allen .....
*Garner & Co .........
*Groesbeck, David & Go
*Green, John C. . . ..
*Gray, Horace .........
Grafton, Joseph. . . .
Gardette, Charles D. . .
*Giﬂ‘ord, Ellen M., Mrs.
Garvin, S. B ..........

Hoffman, John T .....
Hall, A Oakey.. . . . .
Hill, G. Waldo, M.D. .

.23

21 Oct., 1867.
4 Jan., 1869.

7 May, “
5 April, 1867.
5 CC CC

13 May, 1870.

1 June, 1868.
1 Feb., 1869.
1 CC CC
15 Nov., “

23 April, 1866
21 May, “
20 Nov., “

2 May, 1867.
10 Oct., “

4 May, 1868.
13 May, 1870.

23 April, 1866.
C

23 CC . C

20 Nov., “
27 March, 1867.
21 Oct, “
21 CC CC
21 CC CC
21 CC CC

7 Dec., 1868.

5 April, 1869.
4 Jan., “
1 March, “
15 Nov., “
7 May, “

23 April, 1866.
CC CC

CC CC

23

 

*Hicks, B. D. ..........

  

CC

21 May,

10

10

100

 

i660

in

it?

io'
50

id

60
00

()0

()0
00
00
no
00

AMOUNT PAID, 1869—70.

 

Donation.

 

266) '60

5560

 




 

 

 

74

 

 

NAMES OF MEMBERS

{‘Hicks, MIs. E. T..
Hoey, John ...........
Hudson, E. D. M. D.
*Holland, Alexander”
Howland, Me1edith..
*Hodgkins, Thomas G.
Herring, Silas C ......
*Hoyts,Sp1aO“ue & 00..
Hosaek, N. P .........
Hallgarten & Co ......
*Hoe, R & Co .........
Harris, Townsend .....
Harrison, Mrs. Mary. . .
*Hadden, John A ......
Hoagland, J. S .......

Isaacs, S. M., Rev .....

Jourdan , John ........
*Jones, John D. . .. . ..
7*Jaffray, E. S .........

Johnson, Rowland. . . . .

Jenkins, Charles E. . . .
*Johnston, John Taylor.
*Johnston, J. Boorman.
*Jenkins & Vail ...... -.
*Jackson, G. R. ., Burnet

& Co ..............
*Jesup, Mor11s K .......

Knapp, Shepherd. . :. .
Kennedy, John A .....
*Kendall, Opdyke & Co.
Knower, John ........
Kettell, E. H ........ ‘.

*Lenox, James. . . . ..
*Leslie, Frank .........
*Lyle, John S .........

DATE ELECTED.

.26 June, 1866.
21 May, “
21 6C
.29 Now,
29 ‘C
9 Jan., 1867.
2 May, “
21 0013.,
21 ‘C
15 Nov”
1 June, 1868.
1 CC

(C

(C

cc
1:
cc

6‘

9 Sept,
.13 May, 1870.

7 Jan., 1868.

13 May, 1870.
23 April, 1866.
21 May, “

5
7 0013.,
2 Nov., 1868.
21 Oct, 1867.

CC

CC

4 Dec.,
9 Feb, 1870.

23 April, 1866.
23 6C
21 Oct., 1867.

1 March, 1869.

3 Jan., 1870.

23 April, 1866.
23 (C
21 May,

(C

 

5 April, 1 869.

 

5 April, 1867.

 

AMOUNT PAID, 1869—70.

 

Subscription.

16' (10
10 00

I Donation.

 

 




 

 

NAMESCW‘MEMBERS

DATE ELECTED..

 

*Lord, John T .........
Ludlow, Edward H.. . .
Livingston, Mrs. C. . . .

*LaW, George .........
Low, Josiah O ........

*Lockwood, Le Grand. .

*Langley, W. 0., & Co. .

*Lea, J. & J. T. & 00..

*Low, Harriman & Co..

*Lanier, J. F. D .......
Lansing, A. B ........
Loeﬂier, A ...........
Leslie, Henry. . . . . . .. .
Leslie, Alfred .........
Livingston, Miss Annie

*Liautard, A. M. D. . . . .

*Murray, John B ......
Murray, Mrs. John B. .
Morgan, Homer .......
Moore, Rich’d H., M.D.

.. Moore, Mrs. Richard H.
Minturn, Thomas R. . .

21 May, 1866.
21 “ 6C
26 June,
20 Nov.,
1 June, 1868,
18 July, 1867,
21 Oct., “
21 CC CC
21 (C
1 June, 1868.
3 Aug., “
3 Aug.
4 Jan.,
4 (C

CC
CC

CC

6‘

’1869.

5 April, “

15 Nov., “

21 May, 1866.
26 June, “
21 May,
5 April, 1867.
11 Oct., 1869.
5 April, 1867.

CC

 

Mortimer, Richard. . . . 25 May, “
Mudie, John .......... 5 April, “
Menike, Mrs. Julia. . . . 2 July, “
*Moller, Wm. & Sons. . 21 Oct., “
*Mudge, E. R., Sawyer
& Co .............. 21 “ “
*McLean, George W. . . 4 Dec., “
Morris, Charles D ..... 2 Mar., 1868.
‘*Marshall,‘ Charles H. . . 2 “ “
Martin, Richard ....... 7 Dec., “
*Mathews, Edward ..... 1 March, 1869.
Merritt, Anna ........ 9 Sept, “
Morris, Fordham ...... 9 “ “
Macy, Josiah H ....... 9 “ “

Morris, Lewis Gr. . . .

 

. .13 May, 1870.

 

AMOUNT PAID, 1869—70.

 

Subscription. Donation.

 

60
00

i6.
5

oo
00

i6.
10

io°oo
oo

id'bo

 

 

 




 

76

 

 

 

NAMESCW‘MEMBERS

DATE ELECTED.

AMOUNT PAID, 1869—70.

 

l

Subscription. Donation.

 

Macdonald, J. Wilson. .
Mitchell, Samuel ......
McClintock, Mrs. Emory

*Norrie, Adam ........
*Nathan, Benjamin. . . .
Nutting, William H. . .
N orwood, Carlisle, Jr. .

Otto, Mme. Antoinette.
*Osgood, Mrs. S. S .....
*Osgood, S. S ..........
*O’Brien, Wm. & John.
*O’Gorman, Richard. .
*Oothout, William .....

*Parish, Daniel ........
*Packer, Daniel ........
Park, Joseph, Jr ......
Perry, Oliver H .......
Perry, Mrs. O. H .....
Phenix, Phillips ......
*Pomeroy, Adams & Co.
Purser, George H .....
*Pell, Mrs. Mary R .....
Parsons, W. H. & Bro.
*Phclps, Royal .........
Peck, \Villiam J ......
%Phelps, Dodge & 00.. .
Partridge, Le Roy 0. . .

Palmer, Thomas, Jr. . .

*Roherts, Marshall 0. . .
*Roosevelt, C. V. S .....

Russell. Archibald. . . . .
*Robbins, George A. . . .

Rodman, Washington.
. Reed, Isaac H ........
*Richardson,Geo.C.& Co

13 May, 1870.
13 CC C‘
13 “ CC

2 March, 1868.
1 June, “

6 May, 1869.
7 Dec., “

20 Nov., 1866.
15 Nov., 1867.
11 Oct, 1869.
4: Dec, 1867.
4: CC ' CC
2 Nov., 1868.

23 April, 1866.
26 June, “
20 Nov.,
20 CC
5 April, 1867.
21 Oct., “
21 CC
15 Nov.,
7 Jan., 1868.
4 Ja'n., 1869.
1 Feb, “
1 Mar.,
5 April, 1867.
6 May, 1869.
4 April, 1870.

CC
CC

CC
(C

H

23 April, 1866.
23 cc ' cc
23
29 Nov.,
20 CC

2 July, 1867.
21 Oct, “

CC (C
6‘

C6

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

NAMES OF MEMBERS.

   

DATE ELECTED .

AMOUNT PAID, 1869—70.

 

Subscription.

Donation.

 

Robbins, Chandler.. . . .
Ryckman, Edward H. .
Richardson, William.. .

Steele, Edward G .....
*Stuart, R. L. & A. ....
*Stewart, A. T .......

Spies, Adam W ......
*Suckley, Rutsen ......
*Stebbins, Henry G. . . .
*Spotts & Hawk .......
*Stevens, Paran ........

Sherman, E. T. . .. . . ..
*Stokes, James ........
*Skinner, F. & Co ......
*Stanﬁeld, Wentworth &

Co ................
*Spaulding, Hunt & Co.

Sands, Samuel S ......
*Sweeney, Peter B .....
*Sherman, W. Watts. . .

Shook, Sheridan ......

Singer Manuf’ring 00..

Sohell, Edward .......
*Schell, Richard .......

Squier, E. George .....

Sistare, George K., J r..
*Sohermerhorn, W. 0.. .

Schermerhorn, Alfred. .

Suydam, D. Lydig. .

Sehieferdeeker, C. C. . .

Sullivan, Thomas .....

Strong, Demas ........

Solomon, Barnett L.. . .

Solomon, Judah H.. . . .

Soloman, Isaac S ......

Sage, Sherman P ......

*Taylor, Moses .........

2 March, 1868.
1 “ 1869.
4: April, 1870.

23 April, 1866.
23 CC CC
23
21 May,
26 June,
20 Nov.,
C20 CC
1'2 Feb, 1867.
2 May, “
31 Jan.,
21 Oct.,

CC CC
CC
CC
CC

CC

CC
CC
CC CC
CC

21

21

15 Nov., “
15 C. ‘ CC
4 Dec.,
7 Jan, 1868.
4.- Feb., “
4: CC

CC
CC

CC

2Mareh, “
6April, “
1 June, “
2 Nov., “
7 Dee, “
7 CC CC
9 Sept, 1869.
4: April, 1870.
4: CC CC
5
5
5
13 May, 1870.

April, 1867.

CC CC

 

 

23_A4njL 1866.

éé'bo

io°oo

io'oo
io°oo
10 00
io'oo
io°oo
5o 00

 

ioo'oo

ioo'bo

 




 

 

 

 

STATE SO OIETIE S.

Organized and Originating from the Example of the
American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals, at New York.

Pennsylvania Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals.

S. MORRIS WALN, President.
P. E. CHASE, Secretary. ROB’T R. CORSON, Treasurer.

 

Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals.

GEORGE T. ANGELL, President.
FRANK B. FAY, Secretary. HENRY SALTSTONHALL, Treas.

 

California Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals.

Organized at San Francisco.

Names of ofﬁcers for 1870 not reported to us.

 

BANGOR, MAINE.

JOSEPH CARR, President.
EBENEZER T. FOX, Treasurer. O. H. INGALLS, Secretary...

 

 




