 

THE AMERICAN SOCIETY

I“( )R 'l‘IIl“.

PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS

INCORPORATED BY THE STATIC OF NEW YORK
APRIL 10, 1866.

¥ 7 ‘0»

THIRTY-FOURTH ANNUAL REPORT

FOR THE YEAR ENDING DECEMBER 31, 1899

 

JOHN P. HAINES, PRESIDENT,

 

HEADQUARTERS OF THE SOCIETY:

MADISON AVENUE AND 26TH STREET

NE“7YORK

1900

 




 

 

 

 

 

!
1
1
A
|

 




 

C9 F F [C E ,I

)
\

THE AMERICA N
i) R E V E IN T I O \

J
BENJAMIN D. HICKS,
REV. MORGAN DIX, S
FREDERIC GALLATIN,
ALFRED \WAGSTAFF,
MORRIS K. JESUT’,

BENJAMIN D. HICKS,
JOSEPH H. CHOATE,

.

EDWARD A. HAMMOND,

JAMES GRANT WILSON,
FREDERIC R. COUDER'I‘.
WILLIAM FAIINESI‘OEK,
REV. DAVID H. GREER

Secretary.
JOHN MA SON KNOX.

Counsel.

STRONG & CADWALADER.

Superintendent.

CHARLES H. IIANKINsoN.

Inspector.
FRANK O. CLARE.

S

AND [H )_\ [‘11) Hi“

MANAGERS
“I,

SUCIFXI‘Y 150R
(_ I“ CRITICIXI‘Y
A N 1 1V! 3\ I S.

THE

‘ TO

I

I QOO

President.
JtIIN 1’. HAINEs.

Vice-Presidents.
JOHN C!..\Z“i.i.\',
PARKE (_iHl)\\'I.\',
CHARLES [pH-HER,
JOSEPH II. (.‘IHVA’H’,
EDWARD A. Hx‘..\I.\?_().\"i).

l‘.D.,

Executive Committee.
JOEL I}. ERHARD'I‘,
'WILLIANI If. P:\.lx’S().\‘S,
JOHN MASON KNOX,
JOHN J. SINCLAIR,
REV. MORGAN DIN, S.’l‘.D.,
MORRIS K. JESUI’.
JOHN CLAFLIN,

: (,iALLA’rIN.

, DJ),
FREDERH
Treasurer.
CHARLES LANIER.

 

Attorney.
J. MAYIIEW WAINWRIGH"

Assistant Treasurer.
JOSEPH \V. EDWARDS.

Veterinary Surgeon.

SAMUEL K. JOHNSON.

BROOKLYN OFFICE :
13 Willoughby Street.

Attorney.
GI«1ORGE F. ELLIO'I '1‘.

 




 

 

ADDRESS OF THE PRESIDENT,

Ladies and Gentlmnen:

Before proceeding to the remarks which it is my duty to
make to you on the work of the Society during the past year, I
beg to submit to you the following condensed statement of our
local work from January I to December 31, I899:

STATISTICS.
Arrests and Prosecutions ......................... 417
Animals Suspended from Labor ................... 3,756
Horses, mules, and other large animals, disabled past
recovery, humanely destroyed ............... 3,240
Small animals, homeless or disabled past recovery, hu-
manely destroyed .......................... 85,895
Disabled horses and other large animals removed from
the streets in ambulances. .‘ ................. 493
Cases Investigated ............................... 57,958

In my address of a year ago I called your attention to some
interesting facts presented in the summary of our work during
_ the twelve years previous, showing that the work of the Society
during those years was plainly divided into three periods of
four years each. From 1887 to 1890 inclusive, the number of
arrests and prosecutions averaged 931 per annum; in the
second, from 1891 to 1894 inclusive, it rose to an average of
1,035; and in the third, from I895 to 1898 inclusive, it fell to
an average of 700. I explained that the rapid rise in the
number of arrests and prosecutions in the second of these

 




 

 

 

 

periods was largely due to the successful battle in which we
were then engaged in the suppression of cock—ﬁghting and dog—
ﬁghting, both of which cruel sports were then prevalent but

. have now happily become rare. The remarkable diminution

of arrests and prosecutions in the third period I attributed to-
several causes. The ﬁrst was the wholesome effect of the judi-
cious severity of magistrates in the imposition of penalties on
persons convicted of ﬂagrant acts of cruelty. The second was
the direct personal intervention of citizens in the protection of
animals, thus preventing the necessity of prosecutions, and
demonstrating the existence of a public opinion which will no
longer tolerate the commission of acts of cruelty in our streets.
I gratefully acknowledged the powerful influence of the press
in creating and sustaining the public opinion which, I trust,
may in the end make arrests and prosecutions a less constant
part of our cares.

I had no doubt in my own mind of the soundness of the belief
which I expressed to you last January. I must confess, how-
ever, that when I found the arrests and prosecutions of I899
remaining substantially at the same low rate as in 1898, while
the activities of three other departments seemed to diminish,
and only one was greatly extended, I thought it necessary to
ascertain beyond all doubt whether the efficiency of our work—
ing staff was maintained as it had been in former years. I
therefore made it my special business, with all the means at my
disposal, to assure myself of the facts in that particular. The
result was more than satisfactory, and it is my pleasure as well
as my duty to state that the work of our ofﬁcers and agents is
done with an intelligence, devotion, and vigilance which could
hardly be surpassed. If, then, the arrests and prosecutions,
which were last year fewer than they had been since I886, still
remain at the same low ﬁgure of a triﬂe under 500, I feel more
than ever justiﬁed in the conviction that, in New York, there
are fewer cases of cruelty requiring the intervention of the
strong hand of the Law than there ever were before.

Of the constantly increasing interest of citizens in the pre—

 




 

 

 

—

I

vention of animal suffering I think there can be no doubt. A
typical instance fell under my personal observation not long
ago. A street car in which I was riding was suddenly st0pped.
On looking out I saw that a horse drawing a cart load of sand
had slipped and fallen. Only twenty or thirty years ago one
would have been likely to see the driver lashing the poor ani—
mal, partly in anger at its misfortune and partly to compel it to
rise. Nothing of the kind happened. Several citizens sprang
forward, as if by instinct, to the rescue. Some held the horse’s
head ﬁrmly but gently; others assisted in detaching the harness
from the cart, and I saw one gentleman climb on the tail-board
of the cart so as to counterbalance the load and so relieve the
pressure of the shaft on the horse’s back. Almost in an instant
the poor brute was on its feet, pretty badly shaken, no doubt,
but not abused or subjected to any preventable pain. Then, as
quickly, the kind—hearted citizens went their way, feeling, I sup~
pose, that they had done a perfectly natural and perfectly ordi—
nary thing. I am glad to believe that it has become. perfectly
natural for the citizens of New York, without regard to rank
or station, to spring to the relief of a suffering animal. I am
glad to think that it has become quite an ordinary thing to do;
and for that reason I both believe and expect that the number
of arrests and prosecutions to be hereafter reported from year
to year will become smaller. If it should in fact become larger
I should be grievously disappointed.

The number of Animals Suspended from Labor remains sub—
stantially as last year; to be more precise, there is a decrease
of only twenty—ﬁve, and a total of 3,756. Of course it would
be easy to arrest and prosecute many of the drivers and owners
of these poor animals; and it may hereafter seem expedient to
do so. Generally, however, the worn-out creatures thus taken
from the streets are the property of very poor people, to Whom
the stoppage of their daily labor is itself a heavy ﬁne, and it
teaches them the valuable lesson that it does not pay to invest
their money in animals that are not ﬁt for labor.

Our Ambulance Calls during the past year have shrunk over

 




 

 

 

 

8

18 per cent. This is a fact which I ﬁnd it difﬁcult to explain,
though it is evident that the number of horses in the city of
New York is fast diminishing in consequence of the adoption
of cable and electric power by the Street Railways, and also, to
a less extent, by the introduction of Electric Vehicles. At all
events, the diminished use of the Ambulance Service seems to
prove that the number of cases in which it is required has been
unusually small during the past year.

The number of Large Animals Destroyed when sick. or dis-
abled beyond recovery remains about the same.

The number of Small Animals, homeless or disabled past
recovery, and therefore Humanely Destroyed,1 am happy to say
has been diminished by more than eleven per cent. The reason
of this decrease is obvious. The streets of New York are no
longer infested by homeless dogs, and the nights are no longer
made hideous by half—wild cats, as they used to be. The num—
ber of these unfortunate and generally diseased parasites on
the community is slowly diminishing; but it is still large, and if
thelvigilance of our trained agents were to be relaxed for a few
months Only the plague would be as bad as ever.

The Cases Investigated during the past year have increased
over II per cent., bringing the total number up to the enormous
amount of about 57,958. Many of these cases are frivolous
complaints of over—zealous and ignorant citizens who ﬂatter
themselves that they are models of humanity because they call
for the intervention of the Society in cases that they themselves
might easily settle, and often in cases of imaginary cruelty,
which prove on investigation to be without foundation. That,
however, is one of the troubles for which we must always be
prepared, since the growing interest of the public in our work
is sure to be accompanied with a certain percentage of ill—
directed or ﬁctitious zeal, which is manifested in fuss and not
in helpfulness.

Passing to the larger topics with which we are concerned,
I have to report that the Educational Work of the Society has
been carried on with vigor. \Vithin the limit allowed by our

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

10

to disturb and are only too likely to overthrow or utterly pervert
the nobler instincts of woman. I have no doubt you will re-
member that, within a few years past, an hysterical mania ap~
peared here in New York in the form of cat—killing by women,
who imagined they were agents of humanity. The humane
destruction of homeless and diseased cats is necessary; but it
is not the work for women. Women who practise it get fond
of it; and women who get fond of cat-killing are on the high
way to homicidal mania. What then is to be said of the wicked-
ness of practising-vivisection in the presence of female children?
What roots of insanity may it not plant in those young brains!
Even the dissection of dead animals in the presence of children
is utterly unnecessary for the teaching of anything whatever
that a child ought to be taught. A woman who cannot teach
all the anatomy that children can learn without it is not ﬁt
to teach anatomy; and the woman who does teach it in that
way must be presumed to seek the satisfaction to her vanity
rather than the proﬁt of her pupils.

W ith regard to the sanction of vivisection or‘ dissection in
the public schools, which is alleged to have been given by the
Board of Regents, I have been at some pains to inform myself. ‘
On November 20, 1899, I wrote to the Right Rev. W. C.
Doane, D.D., LL.D., etc., a Vice-President of the Board, ask-
ing him whether it was true, as alleged, that the Board had sent
instructions to County Superintendents, principals of schools,
or others connected with the school system of the State, recom-
mending the dissection of dead animals, or demonstration upon
living animals, in any of the schools of the State. Bishop
Doane replied on November 25th, saying: “ I believe that vivi-
section has never been recommended in any form, and that dis-
section has never been required.” I confess that this is not
satisfactory to me. In my opinion the Board'of Regents ought
to make it thoroughly known to every teacher of the State that
z/'z"z’zls‘c’cZz'0/z 2's pro/2252765! 5y [(220, arm]?! in z’7zcorp07'az‘m’ mm’z'dz!
sc/zoo/s, and is Z/zerefow aﬁso/zzz‘dy unlawful m (my OZ/Zﬂ’
30/300133 I think, too, that the Board of Regents ought to do

 

 




 

 

[I

something more positive than merely not to “require” dis-
section to be practised in the schools. I think they ought most
positively to discourage and forbid it. I ﬁnd that many teachers,
and especially women teachers, are dangerously eager to dis-
play their skill, or lack of skill, in cutting up the dead bodies.
of dogs and cats before classes of young children; and I hold
that the Board of Regents is morally bound to condemn that
practice. I am not blaming the Board of Regents for what it
has not done in this particular. It is only within the past few
years that the idea of vivisection, or even of dissection, in the
presence of children has been dreamed of. The Board of
Regents could not be expected to anticipate what no one sup—
posed to be possible in a civilized country. But now that the
danger exists, I sincerely trust that the Board of Regents will
take an early opportunity to bring its great and well-earned
inﬂuence to bear in the prevention of so barbarous an anomaly.

The work of our Society must be expected to increase as the-
national authority of the United States is extended. To the
utmost of our ability the influences of our Society have been
made to accompany the armies of the United States. Through
the inﬂuence of General Grant in Puerto Rico, one cruel prac—
tice, causing great suffering to draught oxen, has been aban—
doned in that island. In Cuba also humanity to animals, which
has been little thought of heretofore, has been required by the
military authorities, and has had the approbation of the best
elements of the Cuban population. At Manila General Otis
has prohibited the cruel sport of cock-ﬁghting; and in thus pre-
venting cruelty to animals he has given one of the best guaran—
tees of righteous and humane treatment of the Filipinos them—
selves. I am glad to be able to clip from Freedom, an American
paper published at Manila on September 19th, the following
paragraph:

“ Thomas Flores, a brutal native, was given twenty—ﬁve dol—
lars ﬁne and twenty days at hard labor in Billibid upon being
convicted of cruelty to animals. Flores drove a horse until
the poor beast became completely exhausted and fell, where—-

 




 

Ni: - M
»

 

 

 

 

 

12

upon the unfeeling brute proceeded to kick the horse in the
heac .”

The punishment of Flores will no doubt have a good effect;
but until the Filipinos and the Cubans and the Puertoricans
have been brought by other means to approve of kindness and
to hate cruelty, mere punishment will accomplish little. There,
as everywhere, the people must be trained and educated in the
ways of humanity as well as punished for acts of cruelty.
Therefore, in all those new possessions of ours we must en-
deavor to extend our inﬂuence; and I hope that there, as in
Hawaii, persons may be found to carry on the good work. In
the Hawaiian Islands, Mrs. Helen K. Wilder Craft has taken
the protection of animals in hand and is acting with wonderful
energy and success. She has a police commission which
authorizes her to arrest offenders, and the inﬂuence of this one

,woman is working a reformation, no less signal in those islands.

than that of Mr. Bergh here in New Yorl . That others like-
minded will be found in Puerto Rico, Cuba, and the Philip-
pines I do not doubt, particularly as I have in my possession
evidences of deep and earnest interest, manifested by laborious
activity, in the Island of Cuba, by'persons whose names I am
not authorized to mention.

Truly, the work which lies before us is likely to be larger
and not less in the future than it has been in the past; but to use
language which I have already quoted elsewhere, “ just here we
strike the same rock that stands before our mother society of
Great Britain——the lack of means. The Royal Society, with
all the patronage of royalty and the nobility of England, is
crippled for want of means, and so are we. Our own position
is exactly stated'by Mr. Colan in his statement of the condition
of the Royal Society. He says :

“ To continue the work of this Society, and to extend it, increased
assistance is absolutely necessary; for, without new members and
donors, an abridgment of operations will be inevitable. Its activity,
impartiality, and success have induced the public to look to this Society
generally as the agent for the suppression of cruelty; hence its labors

 

 




 

 

are being ever enlarged. The Committee shrink from the responsi—
bility of curtailing the efliciency of this Institution so long as cruelty
abounds and good may be accomplished; but it is their duty to state
frankly that they need much greater assistance, and that, unless addi-
tional support be extended to them, this most righteous cause of
humanity must suffer from insufficiency of means.”

How is the means for our increasing work to be obtained?
I do not know. One thing is certain, that, unless it is obtained,
we shall forfeit many opportunities of usefulness. That, I
trust, may not happen; but, if it is not to happen, we shall
require not alone the approval of our friends and the public for
what we may accomplish; and it will be of no avail to blame
us for what we may be compelled to neglect. The only thing
that will enable us to do the work that comes to us will be to
furnish the means. That important matter, I trust, will not be
left out of your conscientious thoughts.

In conclusion, I have Only to say that I trust the New Year
may be one of good success to our coming work, and a happy
year to all the members of our Society.

JOHN. P. HAINES,
President.
December 31, 1899.

 




 

 

 

 

 

REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE
COMMITTEE.

/
During the past year one hundred and nineteen new names

have been added to the roll of members of the Society, and
twenty—eight additional Special Agents have been appointed to
enforce the laws for the protection of animals in localities not
heretofore ofﬁcially represented.

The general work of the Society in protecting animals has
been vigorously prosecuted during the past year with gratify—
ing results. The educational work has also been systemati-
cally conducted, and a number of sermons on “Kindness to
Animals as a Religious and Moral Duty,” and lectures on
“ Animals; Their Care, Management, and Kindly Treatment,”
have been delivered under the auspices of the Society in

' churches, schools, etc.

Changes in the Executive Committee were occasioned by
the resignations of Mr. George G. DeWitt, Mr. Horace Rus-
sell, and Mr. John McLean Nash, while Mr. Joseph H. Choate
and Mr. Edward A. Hammond have been elected Vice-Presi-
dents to ﬁll the vacancies caused by the resignations of Messrs.
Gerry and Schermerhorn.

Mr. John Mason Knox was elected Secretary, vice Mr.
George G. DeWitt, resigned. Messrs. Strong and Cadwalader
were appointed Counsel to the Society, vice Mr. Horace Rus—
sell, resigned, and Mr. J. Mayhew Wainwright, Attorney.

During the year the Society has lost by death twenty—two
members, whosenames will be found inscribed in the Obituary
Record. ' ‘ ‘

The annual address of the President, and the reports of the
Treasurer and Superintendent, printed elsewhere in this report,
give details of the work done during the year 1899.

JOHN MASON KNOX,

Secretar !.

 




 

REPORT (1)13 THIC TREASURER.

NEW YORK, Jan/wry I, 1900.

To The American Society for the Pre‘z'enz‘rz'mz, 07“ C ”Why to
A 72 imals :

The Treasurer begs leave to submit the following report for
the year ending December 31, 1899, showing a Cash Balance
on lmnrl of $414.85.

Respectfully,
CHARLES LANIER,

Treasurer.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

CHARLES LANIER, Treasurer, 2'72 ac‘coum‘ 2027/2 THE AMERICAN

CURRENT INCOME AND EXPENDITURES FOR

DR.

To Cash balance, Dec. 31, I898 . . . . . . . $14,235 96
“ Bequests: Lyman \V. Case . . . . . . . . 900 00‘
James Simons . . . . . . . .. 573 72

C. S. Patterson . . . . . . . . 100 00

Chas. B. Beck . . . . . . . . 9,888 75

Fredrika W. Waring . . . . . . 2,737 21

~ “ Members’ Dues and General Donations . . . 11,984 19
“Fines. . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 3,71895
“ Lecture Fund . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,101 00
“ Rentals, Dividends, Interest, Licenses, etc. . . 60,718 64
“ Cemetery Fund . . . . . . . . . . . ‘ 100 00,.

C $ 106,173758W42

We, the undersigned, have examined the foregoing accounts
of Cruelty to Animals, and have veriﬁed the same by the

 




 

 

 

REPORT OF THE SUPERINTENDENT.

The humane work accomplished by the Society during the
past year does not in any material way differ as to results from
what has been done each preceding year in the mitigation of
animal suffering, the prevention of cruelty, and the enforcement
of the laws for the protection of animals.

A pretty good evidence that the humane laws of the State
are rigorously and intelligently enforced is the smaller num-
ber of prosecutions as compared with former reports, yet
scarcely a day passes that the services of the Society are not
required to care for distressed animals or to stop a brutal driver
from abusing his team. In the latter cases a warning to the
offender in some instances is sufﬁcient, in others the strong
arm of the law is applied, but in every particular the rights and
protection of the animal is the ﬁrst consideration. Every com—
plaint having the appearance of sincerity and truthfulness is
investigated, yet hundreds of such are found to have been made
from spite or vindictiveness. Others, no doubt made in good
faith, turned out to be unfounded owing to ignorance of facts
on the part of the complainant. The labor attending inves-
tigating complaints is very great and takes up the time of our
agents, whose presence on the public thoroughfares and in
the annexed districts is constantly needed. In addition to the
daily routine service, our agents are often on duty the entire
night watching for contemplated dog ﬁghts, cock ﬁghts, rat
baits, and other cruelties, and it is gratifying to report that but
one organized gang of cock—ﬁghters undertook to defy the law.

 

 




 

19
The place where the ﬁght was held was raided by the police
and the agents of the Society, and all the principals and wit—
nesses arrested, and the birds and paraphernalia seized and
forfeited pursuant to the statute. The prisoners were all sub-
sequently convicted and punished.

Everything is being done systematically and successfully,
Within the Society’s jurisdiction, to mitigate animal suffering
of every kind, but it would require much more space than can
be accorded at this time to enumerate in detail the magnitude
of the work that has been accomplished by the small force of
agents engaged in the service.

There is no doubt that, as the years roll on, public sentiment
becomes stronger in favor of recognizing mankind’s obligation
to the lower order of creation, and where once indifference
prevailed at the sight of animal abuse or suffering, to-day
sympathy and practical aid are given the unfortunate beast.
This public recognition and moral support is gratefully appre-
ciated by the Society, for it .not only indicates a personal in-
terest in the civilizing work, but means most emphatically that
bull—ﬁghting and other kindred brutal amusements will not
be tolerated.

LOCAL AGENTS

Reports from special agents, resident of counties other than
those embraced in the Greater New York, are gratifying in that
they show that more careful attention is given to the comfort
and physical wants of animals by farmers, stock—raisers,
quarrymen, and brickmakers. “ I need only to quote the law
against cruelty,” writes an agent, “in order to remedy abuse
of animals, in many instances committed through ignorance.”
“ The knowledge that I have the power to prosecute is sufﬁcient
to deter the cruelly inclined,” reports another. “ Public
opinion endorses me when I interfere to prevent cruelty to an
animal.” Very few prosecutions were instituted by local
agents, and those only in extreme cases.

 




,,._,. W\

20

STABLES

Special attention has been given to the many underground
places and buildings in rear of alleyways used for the stabling
of horses, and while much has been done to better the con-

. dition of the animals housed therein, much more remains to be
done. The absence of means of escape in case of ﬁre from the
so-called stables has, in several instances, resulted in the loss of
many valuable animals as well as others owned by poor truck—
men, peddlers, and expressmen. It should be made a statutory
offense to stable animals below the level of the sidewalk.

STO CKYARDS AND SLAUGHTER-HOUSES

Special agents of the Society are daily present at the several
receiving depots for live stock, and it is very gratifying to
report that during the past year the services of our agents have
been required on only two occasions, viz.: to end the suffering
of a calf which had fallen from a car and broken one of its legs,
and to take charge of a number of cattle reported abandoned.
A butcher was arrested by an agent of the Society in one of the
slaughter-houses while in the act of kicking a lamb in a most
inhuman manner. The promptness of the arrest was a surprise
to the offender and his fellow workmen, and it is safe to say
that no more acts of cruelty will occur there again. The
offender was convicted and ﬁned.

 

 

 

CANAL WORK

The service along the several waterways of the State has
been energetic and insistent, and has resulted in bringing relief
to many overworked,.sore, and otherwise disabled horses and
mules. It must be conceded, however, that more consideration
is given by drivers and. owners of the animals employed haul-
ing canal—boats on the tow-paths than heretofore, as they
realize that by so doing much better results are obtained. not
only from a humane point of View, but ﬁnancially.

 

 




 

 

 

 

THEAMERiCAX SOCiETY ‘
ME THE PREVENTl‘ON 0?

 

 

BICYCLE CARRIER USED IN EMERGENCY CASES FOR TRANSPORTING SMALL ANIMALS

| l

 




 

QFszeme sz<zbz ammo: 5355mm Qz< HzOm

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

LIVE POULTRY

It is to be regretted that the humane laws of this State are
inoperative against the shippers of live poultry from other
States. Large numbers of live geese, turkeys, chickens, and
pigeons are brought to this city weekly by rail and boat, packed
like sardines, in coops and crates, and but for the presence
of our agents at the several receiving stations, the tortured
animals would have been loaded at once on trucks and taken
to other places or reshipped to adjacent cities in the same con—
dition as when they arrived here. To describe the pitiful con-
dition of the unfortunate creatures on their arrival here—as
reported by our agents—would shock the sensibilities of any
one having the least spark of human kindness. Sufﬁce it to
say everything is done for the immediate relief of the animals
by supplying them with fresh water, food, and ample space.

AMBULANCE AND LIFE-SAVING DERRICK SERVICE

These departments of our work continue to be of invaluable
assistance as ﬁrst aid to injured animals, and their careful
transportation to veterinary hospitals. The ambulances are
provided with every comfort and convenience for the carrying
of sick or injured animals, and with a derrick for the rescue of
large animals from excavations or other dangerous places into
which they may have accidentally fallen. The vehicles and
derrick are always ready for immediate service when required.

BROOKLYN DEPARTMENT

Under the able management of Inspector Clark, the Brook—
lyn department of our service is most efﬁciently conducted,
considering the small force of agents engaged there and the
large territory requiring attention.

In conclusion the undersigned hereby acknowledges the
many courtesies extended to the Society and its representatives

 




  

 

 

 

 

 

24

by Judges of the Criminal Courts and the ofﬁcials of all other
departments of the city government, and also refers with pleas—
ure to the neat appearance of the uniformed agents under his
command, and likewise to the courage, zeal, and wise discretion
exercised by them while engaged in the performance of the
duties pertaining to their ofﬁce.

Respectfully submitted,
CHARLES H. HANKINSON,

Superintendent.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Jan. IO.

Jan. IO.

Jan. 12.

 

Jan. I3.

 

 

26

For driving a very lame horse suffering from suppurating
corns, quarter-crack in off fore foot, and otherwise in dis-
abled condition, Emil Schmidt was sentenced by the Court of
Special Sessions, First Division, to pay a ﬁne of twenty-ﬁve
dollars or to imprisonment for ﬁve days. Both of the ail—
ments described, in the judgment of the veterinary surgeon,
must have caused the animal extreme pain. “ What physical
agony the poor creature must have suffered during the many
hours it had been driven,” said Justice Jacobs when pro-
nouncing sentence, “ can only be inferred.”

“ What have you to say to the charge of cruelty to your
horse in that you kicked the animal several times violently
in the belly?” asked presiding Justice Jacobs of the Court
of Special Sessions, First Division, of Henry Mayer, who
was on trial for abusing his horse. Defendant had nothing
to say, and was ﬁned ﬁfteen dollars, with the alternative of
ﬁve days in the City Prison. Nothing to say is a wise answer,
but the justice interprets it to mean “I am guilty of the'
charge and want to be let off as lightly as possible.”

George Larkin was arrested by one of the Society’s ofﬁcers
for driving a horse suffering at the time from nearly all dis-
eases and complaints such an animal is subject to. The
animal was knee—sprung and suffering from maturated sores
on both hind legs, sores on the back unprotected from the
harness, and was, in addition, blind, weak, and feeble. The
driver was in almost as dilapidated a condition as the horse,
and when arraigned before the City Magistrate stated that
he was compelled to drive the horse by Morris Friedberg,
its owner. A warrant was issued for the arrest of Friedberg,
but before being executed the further sufferings of the horse
were humanely ended. Friedberg, when arraigned before
the Court of Special Sessions, First Division, plead guilty to
having “ caused, procured, and permitted ” the horse to be
tortured, and was ﬁned twenty—ﬁve dollars with the alterna-
tive of ﬁve days in the City Prison.

Judge William C. Kellog. of Yonkers, imposed a ﬁne of ten
dollars upon Frederick Meyers, who plead guilty to driving
a team of horses attached to a wagon while one of the ani-
mals was suffering from sores 'on the shoulder and breast
unprotected from the harness.

 




 

H U MANELY DESTROYED

 

ONE OF MANY HOMELESS AND DISEASED DOGS PICKED UP ON THE STREETS AND

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

DRINKING FOUNTAIN AT COOPER UNION, JUNCTION OF THIRD AND FOURTH AVENUE”

Donated by Mrs. Marie Guise Newcomb, and erected by Society

 




.cu u, iHLD.lHkUlC \JUISUthﬁVC(HDlL antlerectcd by Society

 

Jan. I4.

Jan. 16.

Jan. 23.

Jan. 24.

Jan. 24.

 

The horse driven by Thomas Ford, and at the time har—
nessed to a heavily loaded wagon, was suffering from sores
on the neck, breast, and back. The wounds were in a terrible
condition, and chafed by the harness every step the horse
took. Ford plead guilty to the charge of cruelty to the horse
in Court of Special Sessions, First Division, and was sen—
tenced to pay a ﬁne of twenty-ﬁve dollars or be imprisoned
for ﬁve days. There was not the slightest evidence to war—
rant the belief that anything had been done to alleviate the
painfulness of the sores, but, on the contrary, the collar saddle
was covered with crusted blood, showing they had not been

cleaned for some time.

Nathan Linetsky plead guilty to driving a very lame horse.
The animal was suffering from festered corns, which caused
great pain and suffering. The defendant was sentenced to
pay a ﬁne of twenty—ﬁve dollars or to be imprisoned for ﬁve
days in City Prison by the Court of Special Sessions, First
Division, Judge Hayes presiding. The shoes of the horse
had not been removed for some time, which increased the
pain caused by the diseased condition of the feet. The suffer-
ing creature gave a deep sigh of relief when the shoes were

removed by the veterinary surgeon.

James Burke was arrested by a police ofﬁcer for beating a
horse over the head and body with the butt° end of a whip.
The ofﬁcer, when testifying before the Court of Special Ses-
sions, First Division, declared that the horse was in a pitiful
condition at the time the beating took place. The defendant
was convicted of the charge of cruelty, and was sentenced to
pay a ﬁne of twenty-ﬁVe dollars or be imprisoned for ten days

by presiding Judge Jacobs.

Bernard Cunningham was arrested by one of the Society's
ofﬁcers while in the act of beating, in a cruel manner, a horse
which, at the .time, was in an exhausted, weak, and feeble
condition. The animal was harnessed to a loaded truck
which it was unable to draw. Upon his plea of guilty the
defendant was sentenced to pay a ﬁne of ten dollars or be
imprisoned for three days in the City Prison by the Court
of Special Sessions, First Division, Judge Hayes presiding.

Justice Martin, of Malone, New York, imposed a ﬁne of
ﬁve dollars and costs upon George Nicklaw,who was charged

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Feb. 6.

Feb. 7.

Feb. IO.

Feb. II.

Feb. I3.

 

30

with overdriving a horse. The animal at the time of Martin’s
arrest was in an exhausted condition and hardly able to stand.

Mike McKeon, for exposing and offering for sale a horse
having the disease known as glanders, was sentenced to be
imprisoned in the penitentiary for three months by the Court
of Special Sessions, First Division, Judge Hayes presiding.
The disease of glanders is not only contagious to animals,
but likewise to human beings, and within the past year sev-
eral cases of blood-poisoning, resulting in death, have oc-
curred among stablemen who were infected with glanderous
mucus.

“ Upon your plea of guilty you are sentenced to pay a ﬁne
of ﬁfteen dollars or to three days in City Prison,” said Judge-
Holbrook to Augustus Rudge, who was arraigned before the
Court of Special Sessions, First Division, for having cruelly
beaten and overloaded a horse. The animal was lame, weak,
and weary when stopped by the Society’s ofﬁcer.

John Rolleston, for compelling a horse to haul a cart.
loaded with stone, the animal suffering at the time from sup-
purating wound on the off hind leg, was sentenced to pay a
ﬁne of ten dollars or to three days in City Prison by the
Court of Special Sessions, First Division. The poor creature
was in a distressing condition when suspended from labor by
the ofﬁcer.

The horse driven by Joe Anderson was so lame in the off'
hind leg that it could hardly rest the foot upon the ground,
and while in such suffering condition was compelled to haul‘
a loaded truck up a steep incline. The animal had evidently
been in a disabled condition for some time, yet Anderson
disregarded the animal’s suffering—compelled it to work
as stated above. Upon being arraigned before the Court of
Special Sessions, First Division, Judge' Holbrook presiding,
the defendant attempted to justify the cruelty by saying that
he was simply exercising the horse. His defense, however,
was of no avail, and he was sentenced to pay a ﬁne of thirty-
ﬁve dollars or be imprisoned for ten days. The suffering
animal was humanely destroyed.

For driving a horse suffering from sores on the body, un-
protected from the harness, Charles Rosso was sentenced to;

 

 




 

 

Feb. 14.

Feb. I4.

Feb. 15.

Feb. 15.

Feb. 21.

31

pay a ﬁne of twenty-ﬁve dollars or to ten days in City Prison
by the Court of Special Sessions, First Division, Judge Hol-
brook presiding. The wounds were of long standing, and no
effort had been made to heal or keep the harness from
chaﬁng.

Justice E. W'. Gamble, of Mount Morris, sentenced Henry
Taylor to pay a ﬁne of ﬁve dollars for leaving a team of
horses on the street seven hours with the thermometer four
degrees above zero. During the time mentioned the horses
were unblanketed, and stood facing the wind.

Michael Degroote was sentenced to pay a ﬁne of twenty
dollars or to ten days in City Prison for beating a horse in a
cruel and inhuman manner. The animal ‘was in a weak,
feeble, and exhausted condition at the time and was harnessed
to a truck loaded to its fullest capacity. Degroote, when
remonstrated with by several ladies, replied he would do
as he pleased, and continued the cruelty until arrested.

Bernard Ludlow was convicted in the Court of, Special
Sessions, Second Division, Judge Keady presiding, upon a
charge of “omitting and neglecting to provide necessary
sustenance” 'for a horse which he had left lying on the
ground in front of the stable for over twenty hours. The
horse, when found by the Society’s ofﬁcer, was in a pitiable
condition. The defendant was fined twenty—ﬁve dollars, with
the alternative of ten days in jail.

Presiding Judge Keady, of the Court of Special Sessions,
Second Division, imposed 'sentence of a ﬁne of ﬁfty dollars
or twenty-ﬁve days in the County Jail upon Fred Lovejoy,
who was convicted of having caused and permitted his horse
to be driven while said horse was suffering from sores upon
its body unprotected from the harness, as well as being in a
lame, weak, and feeble condition.

Frederick Scherer was convicted in the Court of Special
Sessions, First Division, for driving a horse suffering from
ﬁve dreadful sores on the breast and back unprotected from
the harness. These wounds ranged from three to ﬁve inches
in diameter and were evidently of long standing, showing
that no care or medical attendance had been given to the

 




 

/

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Feb. 24.

Feb. 27.

March 3.

 

Feb. 22. '

 

32

' horse. The veterinary Surgeon testiﬁed that the animal must

have suffered great pain for at least four weeks prior to the
arrest. Scherer was sentenced to pay a ﬁne of ﬁfty dollars,
or, upon default of payment, to be imprisoned for ﬁfteen days.

John Graham was convicted of the charge of cruelty to
animals on the complaint of a lady who witnessed the offense.
A team of horses harnessed to a loaded coal truck got stalled
in a snow—bank on Lexington Avenue. The animals were
evidently tired out and could go no further. This made the
driver, John Graham, angry, and he beat the horses on the
head and face with a whip in a cruel manner. The complain-
ant remonstrated with him, but without avail. Graham was
arrested, and on arraignment before the Court of Special Ses—
sions, Second Division, he was convicted and sentenced to
pay a ﬁne of twenty-ﬁve dollars, or, in default of payment,
to be imprisoned for ﬁve days in the City Prison.

One of the worst cases the Society has been called upon
to prosecute in the criminal courts was that against Solo—
mon Stewart. Stewart was charged with having compelled
a horse to walk while suffering from lameness in the nigh
fore foot. The veterinary surgeon of the Society testiﬁed
that the sole of the foot had dropped off and the horse was
actually walking on the cofﬁn-bone. It was testiﬁed that
the horse was being taken to a place in the outskirts of Jersey
City, where it was to have been slaughtered for human food.
The defendant was sentenced to imprisonment in the City
Prison for sixty days by Judges Hayes, Holbrook, and
Jacobs, of the Court of Special Sessions, First Division, and
the horse was humanely destroyed.

The horse driven by Bernard Bailey was lame, weak, and
feeble. The defendant was urging the animal along by voice
and whip, but owing to its disabled condition it could hardly
put the lame foot to the ground. Bailey was sentenced to
pay a ﬁne of twenty—ﬁve dollars or to ﬁve days’ conﬁnement
in the City Prison by the Court of Special Sessions, First
Division.

Twenty-ﬁve dollars’ ﬁne or ten days in City Prison was
the sentence imposed upon James Tadovano, who was con-
victed by the Court of Special Sessions, FirstlDivision, Judge

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

34

was convicted, however, and sentenced to pay a ﬁne of ﬁfty
dollars or be imprisoned for ten days. The horse was hu-
manely disposed of.

March II. Timothy Garrity was sentenced to the County Jail for
sixty days by Justice Marcus Grifﬁn, of Southampton, Long
Island, for ill-treating a young horse.

March I3. Patrick Foley was convicted in the Court of Special Ses-
sions, First Division, Judge Holbrook presiding, for driving
a horse, attached to a loaded cart, while suffering from what
is known as ﬁstulas-withers, likewise sore on the shoulder
and on the back, unprotected from the harness. The veter—
inary surgeon testiﬁed that no surgical treatment had been
given or cleanliness observed toward the horse for many a
day, judging from the condition of the harness. Foley was
sentenced to pay a ﬁne of twenty—ﬁve dollars or be im—
prisoned for ﬁve days.

March I3. Daniel Burke was charged in the Court of Special Sessions,
First Division, with overloading a horse. In addition the
animal was suffering from a sore on the body unprotected
from the harness. Witnesses testiﬁed that the animal was
unable to haul the load more than half a block at a time with-
out stopping to rest. The defendant was sentenced to pay a
ﬁne of twenty-ﬁve dollars or be imprisoned ﬁve days in the
City Prison.

March 14. Salvator Samtere jerked the reins in the horse’s mouth so
violently that the animal was cut and bleeding. The horse
was likewise in a weak and feeble condition and suffering
in its body and limbs. Samtere had nothing to say when
asked why he committed the cruelty except that “the horse
was lazy.’.’ He was sentenced to pay a ﬁne of twenty-ﬁve
dollars or to be conﬁned ﬁve days in the City Prison by the
Court of Special Sessions, First Division, Judge Holbrook
presiding.

March I6. Ten dollars or ten days in the County Jail was the sen-
tence pronounced by Justice Kellog, of Yonkers, upon Tony
Marea, who was charged with compelling a horse to pull a
loaded dirt-cart while the animal was suffering from sores on
the back unprotected from the hafi'iess.

 




35

March 20. Because his horse could not back a loaded vehicle up a
steep incline John Heeney beat the animal over the head
and body with a stick of wood. A citizen passing by at the
time remonstrated with him, but was threatened with the
same treatment Heeney was giving the horse if the former
did not mind his own business. A police ofﬁcer happened
to be near and settled the trouble by arresting Heeney, who
was ﬁned thirty-ﬁve dollars, or, in default of payment, to be
imprisoned for ten days in the City Prison by the Court of
Special Sessions, First Division.

March 23. Jacob Rossel, of Amboy,New Jersey, was convicted in the
Court of Special Sessions, Second Division, Judge Fitzgerald
presiding, for having cruelly beaten and kicked a cow, caus-
ing the animal much physical pain and.suffering. He was
sentenced to pay a ﬁne of twenty-ﬁve dollars, or, in default
of payment, to be committed to prison for twenty-ﬁve days.

March 23. Judge George D. Chamberlain, of Franklin, New York,
sentenced Benjamin Palmer to pay a ﬁne of twelve dollars for
depriving eight cows, four yearlings, and one horse of neces-
sary sustenance. The judge also warned the defendant that
if the offense was repeated a much more severe sentence
would be imposed.

March 26. Early Sunday morning, a squad of police, under com-
mand of Sergeant Hugh J. Canlon, of the Thirty—fourth
Precinct, Staten Island, raided a roadhouse situated at
Silver Lake, Borough of Richmond, and there arrested four-
teen men who were surrounding a cock—pit in which two
birds were ﬁghting. In the place at the time there were more
than ﬁfty people, the majority of whom escaped when the ofﬁ—
cers made their appearance. Among the persons were several
prominent citizens of the Borough of Richmond, who were
taken with the rest to the New Brightonlock-up. The ofﬁcers
took possession of the cock-pit and other paraphernalia as
well as the two cocks that were ﬁghting at the time of the raid.
Both of the birds were armed with steel spurs and one of
them was badly cut. All of the defendants were convicted,
and eleven were ﬁned ten dollars each, two handlers twenty-
ﬁve dollars each, and another ﬁned ﬁfty dollars. The pro-
prietor of the place was included in the list of witnesses. The
latter was also charged with keeping a place for ﬁghting ani-

 

 




 

30

mals, but this charge was dismissed. All of the defendants
paid the ﬁnes imposed, and the property was forfeited to the
Society pursuant to the statute in such case made and pro-
vided. These cases were tried before Judges Fitzgerald,
Forker, and Keady, of the Court of Special Sessions, Second
Division.

 

March 29. Peter Sorolla beat a horse in a most cruel manner over the
body with a heavy stick of wood. It appears the animal had
got stalled in an excavation in such a way as to make it im—
possible to draw a loaded cart. This angered Sorolla and he
resorted to the stick. Upon being arraigned in the Court of
Special Sessions, First Division, he made the usual excuse
that “the horse was lazy.” The Court imposed a ﬁne of
ﬁfteen dollars, with the alternative of imprisonment for three-
days.

 

 

March 29. James Booth. plead guilty to the charge of throwing salt
mixed with sand on the track of the Ninth Avenue Railroad
Company, for which he was sentenced to pay a ﬁne of ﬁfty
dollars, or, in default of payment, to be imprisoned ten days~
in the City Prison. Several other employees of the company
were arrested with Booth, but sentence was suspended in
their cases.

 

 

March 30. Presiding Judge Hinsdale of the Court of Special Sessions,
First Division, sentenced Christopher Peppler to pay a ﬁne-
of twenty—ﬁve dollars or be imprisoned for ten days for beat—
ing a team of horses in a cruel and inhuman manner. The
animals at the time of Peppler’s arrest were harnessed to a
wagon heavily loaded, and were in a weak, exhausted con-
dition and suffering in body and limbs. They were taken to
a veterinary hospital.

 

April 3. Patrick Ginivaee was found driving a lame horse to a cart.
In addition to being badly foundered the animal suffered
from quitter on the nigh fore foot and was in a most pitiful
condition. Ginivaee was convicted in the Court of Special
Sessions, First Division, Judge Jerome presiding, and sen-
tenced to pay a ﬁne of thirty—ﬁve dollars or be imprisoned for
seven days. Judge Jerome warned the defendant that if he
was ever brought into court again on a similar charge, a
severe'sentence of imprisonment would be imposed.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

A PATIENT FOR THE VETERINARY HOSPITAL

 




 

<1;»[_Am1.J.s;»1<1 A’IIIHJIICHIDIW (JNV sum 31>le
mm, mm»: NGIHVJ, ‘HHDNHH (iINv ‘GIMHSOJYEI ‘HSVHSIU 1mm {)Nmmmns KLSVDlﬂO NV

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




'l‘l l E

l" R U M

AH l} 11 U l\ ULK, .1 All\ 1th

1'41\L KIA) L} l\1‘1,

JIUJinhu‘l,

E’I‘S AND Ml

.I. 4“,/ AVI

S'l‘ltl‘

C I)

C I l“ U I {LY DESTROVI

)
\

‘
l
1

‘
l

 

April 3.

April 6.

April 7.

April 8.

April 8.

April IO.

 

39

Morris Phillip was ﬁned twenty—ﬁve dollars in the Court of
Special Sessions, Judge Hinsdale presiding, for driving a
horse lame with quitter. Quitter is one of the most painful
ailments horses are subjected to, and very rarely can be cured.

Ed. Brunnel, of W'eston Mills, New York, was sentenced
to imprisonment in the County Jail for twenty-ﬁve days by
Judge W. D. Parker for driving a horse while in a weak,
feeble, lame, and sore condition. The witnesses testiﬁed that
the condition of the horse was “ pitiful to see ” at the time
of the defendant’s arrest.

Lincoln Howell was leading six sorry—looking horses
through the streets of the city on the way to Yonkers. Two
of the animals were lame, others were sore, and not one was
able to more than crawl along. Owing to their decrepit
condition the Society’s ofﬁcer mercifully ended the sufferings
of the entire lot. Howell was arrested and subsequently
sentenced to pay a ﬁne of twenty—ﬁve dollars or be im-
prisoned for ten days by the Court of Special Sessions, First
Division, Judge Hinsdale presiding.

Judge Courtney of the Court of Special Sessions, Second
Division, sentenced Dr. J. W. Lauderdale to pay a ﬁne of
twenty—ﬁve dollars or the alternative of a term of imprison—
ment for throwing boiling water over the body of a dog,
scalding the animal very badly. The defendant’s excuse was
“the dog trespassed on his grounds.”

John Wendell was sentenced by the Court of Special Ses-
sions, First Division, to pay a ﬁne of ﬁfty dollars or the
alternative of thirty days in the City Prison for driving a
horse through the streets of the city diseased with glanders
and farcy. The animal was found harnessed to a truck in a
busy part of the city, making it dangerous for other horses,
as the diseases mentioned are of a contagious nature and
fatal in their effects.

For driving a horse suffering from lameness caused by
quitter on the off fore foot, Peter Rogers was sentenced to
pay a ﬁne of twenty—ﬁve dollars, with the alternative of
imprisonment in the City Prison for ten days, by Judge
Jerome of the Court of Special Sessions, First Division. The

3

 




 

April 10.

April IO.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

April 12.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

April IO.

April II.

40

animal was extremely lame, and the veterinary surgeon
testiﬁed that it was suffering great pain.

Lame, weak, sore, and suffering in its body and limbs was
the condition of a horse driven by Edward McDonald. The
horse was attached to a contractor’s cart and was in such a
pitiful condition as to attract the attention of passers—by.
McDonald had nothing to say when arraigned for trial, and
was sentenced to pay a ﬁne of twenty~ﬁve dollars, or, in de-
fault of payment, ten days in the City Prison by the Court of
Special Sessions, First Division, Judge Hinsdale presiding.

Frank Stamp was ﬁned twenty—ﬁve dollars or the alterna—
tive of spending twenty days in the County Jail upon his con-
viction in the Court of Special Sessions, Second Division,
Judge Keady presiding, for selling a horse having the disease
known as glanders.

A horse harnessed to a loaded furniture van got stalled in
a rut on one of the roads at Freeport, Long Island. The
load being heavy and the road bad, the horse could not budge
the vehicle, although it made every effort to do so. The
driver, Alex Taber, assisted by John Flannery and William
Robbins, put a bundle of straw under the belly of the animal
and set it on ﬁre, burning the horse severely, then supple-
menting the torture by beating the animal in a cruel manner
with a whip. The human brutes were arrested, convicted,
and ﬁned ten dollars each by Judge Wallace.

Walter S. Tyler, driver for the Fifth Avenue Stage Com-
pany, was ﬁned twenty—ﬁve dollars or the alternative of ten
days in the City Prison for compelling a horse that was lame
in all four feet to haul a stage coach loaded with passengers.
It was testiﬁed to by several veterinary surgeons at the trial
of Tyler that three of the animal’s feet were diseased with
canker and the fourth foot lame from another cause, and the
horse entirely unﬁt for labor. Every effort was made to
obtain evidence sufﬁcient to warrant the conviction of the
proprietors ormanagers of the Stage Company, but without
success. The defendant, Tyler, refused to give evidence of
that character.

William Edel was urging a decrepit horse to haul a wagon
loaded with merchandise while scarcely able to put one leg

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

April I3.

April 18.

April I8.

April 19.

  
  
   
  
   
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
   
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
 

42

siding Judge Hinsdale.warned him that if he ever came to
court again charged with a similar offense, he would be most
severely punished. In this case a ﬁne of twenty-ﬁve dollars,
or, in default of payment, ten days in the City Prison was
imposed.

Annie Hickey, for causing and permitting her horse to be
driven by one Henry Holland while the animal was suffer-
ing from sores on the back unprotected from the harness,
also lame in the off fore foot and otherwise disabled, was sen-
tenced to pay a ﬁne of thirty—ﬁve dollars or be imprisoned
ﬁfteen days in the Court'of Special Sessions, First Division,
Judge Jerome presiding.

Judge Courtney, of the Court of Special Sessions, Second
Division, imposed a ﬁne of ﬁfty dollars upon Albert Schaf,
who was convicted of cruelty to animals in that he Compelled
a horse to pull and drag a loaded wagon while the horse
was suffering from sores on the’body unprotected from the
harness. The offense was aggravated by an utter absence of
any evidence showing that the animal had received even
ordinary care while suffering as aforesaid.

Frederick Nann was sentenced to pay a ﬁne of ﬁfteen
dollars, or, in default of payment, to be imprisoned for ﬁve
days by the Court of Special Sessions, First Division, Judge
'Hinsdale presiding, for overloading a small—sized, weak, and
feeble horse. The animal got stalled while ascending an in-
cline and Nann commenced to beat it with a heavy whip. A
citizen who was passing by at the time remonstrated with
him, but was threatened with same treatment Nann was giv-
ing the horse if the former “ did not mind his own business.”
A policeman arrived just as Nann was again abusing the
animal, for which he was put under arrest and the animal
taken to a stable.

“ The horse was covered with sores, some on parts of the
body unprotected from. the harness,” testiﬁed the Society’s
officer at the trial of Patrick Lubreda, charged with cruelty
to animals, in the Court of Special Sessions, First Division,
Judge Hinsdale presiding. The purchase price of the horse
was four dollars, and Lubreda declared that it was in good
physical condition and able to work. The judges thought

 

 




 

April 24.

April 26.

April 26.

April 27.

43

otherwise, however, and sentenced the defendant to pay a ﬁne
of ﬁfteen dollars or be imprisoned ﬁve days in default of
payment.

Margie King was convicted by the Court of Special Ses-
sions, First Division, Judges Hinsdale, Holbrook, and
Jerome, of an unparalleled act of cruelty inﬂicted upon a
live kitten. The evidence at the trial showed that the de-
fendant took the kitten from a neighbor’s room into her own,
and there deliberately cut the animal open with a small pair
of scissors, then took the mutilated body back to the apart—
ment of its owner. The judges declined to hear all the de—
tails of the case as the evidence of two witnesses only proved
the brutality of the act and the guilt of the defendant. She
was sentenced to imprisonment in the penitentiary for three
months.

Eli Furzly compelled a Weak, feeble, sore, and lame horse
to haul a loaded wagon all the way from South Brooklyn to
the upper part of this city. When stopped by the Society’s
ofﬁcer the animal was so weak and exhausted that it fell down
in the shafts. The defendant, in the Court of Special Ses-
sions, First Division, Judge Jerome presiding, was sentenced
to pay a ﬁne of twenty—ﬁve dollars, and was warned that if
he was ever brought into Court again on a similar charge,
imprisonment would be the sentence instead of a nominal
ﬁne, as in the present case.

The horse driven by Albert Borman was suffering from
nearly all the ailments to which a horse is subject. It was
lame, weak, feeble, and suffering in its body and limbs, yet
the poor creature was compelled by voice and whip to haul
a heavily loaded wagon. Borman was convicted by the
Court of Special Sessions, First Division, Judge Jerome
presiding, and sentenced to pay a ﬁne of twenty-ﬁve dollars
or be imprisoned ten days in default of payment.

Judge William C. Kellog, of Yonkers, imposed a ﬁne of
ﬁve dollars upon Joseph Schwitzer, who was charged with
driving a horse harnessed to a wagon while the animal was
suffering from sores on the back three and one-half by four
inches unprotected from the harness. The Society’s ofﬁcer
testiﬁed that the wound was raw and bleeding and must have
caused the animal great physical pain.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  
  
   
   
 
 
 
 
   
 
  
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  
 

 

 

April 28.

May I.

May 2.

May 3.

May 5.

  

44

James White was driving a horse so lame in the near fore
foot that the animal could scarcely put the limb to the
ground. The suffering was caused by a disease called thrush.
The veterinary surgeon testiﬁed at the trial of the defendant
that the tissues of the foot had rotted away and that the
animal, at the time, was suffering great pain. The defendant
was sentenced to pay a ﬁne of twenty—ﬁve dollars or be im-
prisoned-for ten days by presiding Judge Jerome, of the
Court of Special Sessions, First Division.

Toney Marti, of Yonkers, was found guilty of using, ex-
posing, and selling a horse having the disease known as
glanders. He was sentenced to pay a ﬁne of forty dollars, or,
in default of payment, to be imprisoned for forty days, by
Judge William C. Kellogg. The diseased condition of the
animal was obvious to any one having the slightest knowl-
edge of horses, and when found by the Society’s ofﬁcer, every
symptom of the dreaded disease was fully developed and
noticeable.

For compelling a very lame and sore horse to haul a loaded
truck, Angelo Patruesell was sentenced to pay a ﬁne of
twenty—ﬁve dollars or to be imprisoned for ten days by
the Court of Special Sessions, Judge Jerome presiding. The
horse was suffering great pain and should not have been
worked. “ The lameness was due to a diseased condition of
the foot and had been neglected,” testiﬁed the veterinary
surgeon.

Louis Semawousky was arrested for working a horse that
was in a'lame, weak, and exhausted condition, and, upon con-
viction, was sentenced to pay a ﬁne of twenty-ﬁve dollars, or,
in default of payment, to be imprisoned for ten days in the
City Prison, by the Court of Special Sessions, First Division,
Judge Jerome presiding.

John Farlelli deliberately dropped a lighted match upon
the back of a dog, setting ﬁre to the animal. The poor
creature, before help could reach it, was burned to death.
Such a ﬂagrant act of cruelty the presiding justice of the
Court of Special Sessions, Second Division, declared had
never been brought to his attention before. The defendant
was ﬁned ﬁfty dollars or the alternative of twenty days in jail.

 
 
   
 
 
 
 
  
   
 

  

 




 

May 5.

May 12.

May 16.

May 17.

May 17.

May 18.

May 25.

45

“ Erastus Manson, you are charged with beating in a most
cruel manner with a stick of wood a horse that, at the time,
was sick, lame, and unﬁt for work. What have you to say? ”
inquired Presiding Judge Jerome of the Court of Special
Sessions of the First Division. The defendant replied: “ The
horse was lazy and gave me some trouble, which made me
mad.” He was ﬁned twenty—ﬁve dollars and advised not to
be brought to court again on a similar charge.

For working a horse, harnessed to a brick—truck, suffering
from quitter on near fore foot, also sore on off side of neck,
unprotected from the harness, Samuel Wallace was sentenced
to pay a ﬁne of twenty—ﬁve dollars, or, in default of payment,
to be imprisoned in the City Prison for ten days, by the
Court of Special Sessions, First Division, Judge Jerome
presiding. '

An ofﬁcer of the Society arrested Frederick Habenicht at
Manhattan Street and Western Boulevard for driving a
horse, attached to a cart, suffering from a sore on the nigh
side of back, four by three and one-half inches. also one on
the off side of breast, three by two inches. Habenicht plead
guilty to the charge of cruelty before the Court of Special
Sessions, First Division, Judge Jerome presiding, but owing
to the poverty of the defendant, sentence was suspended.

Tony Williams, of New Rochelle, was arrested by an ofﬁ-
cer of the Society for driving a horse with a sore three by
four inches on the body, chafed by the harness. Williams
was taken before Magistrate John A. Van Zelm, and upon
his plea of guilty of cruelty to the horse, was ﬁned ﬁve
dollars.

Hiram More, of Salem, New York, was ﬁned ten dollars
and costs of the trial by Judge Abner C. Robertson, for
cruelly beating a horse with an iron chain.

For working an old, lame. and emaciated horse harnessed
to a dirt—truck, John Starr was ﬁned twenty—ﬁve dollars, or
the alternative of ten days in the City Prison, by the Court of
Special Sessions, First Division, Judge Jerome presiding.

Henry Schaf was tried and convicted by the Court of
Special Sessions, First Division, Judge Jerome presiding, for

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

June 1.

June 2.

June 5.

June 6.

June 7.

July 8.

July 12.

 

  

46

  

wilfully throwing broken glass on the public highway, and
was sentenced to pay a ﬁne of twenty-ﬁve dollars, or, in de-

fault of payment, to be imprisoned ten days in the City
Prison.

Simon McNally was arrested by an ofﬁcer of the Society
for driving a team of horses attached to a van on the Post
Road, Mamaroneck, one suffering from a bad quitter, caus-
ing lameness; the other with four sores on breast, size from
one to three inches. McNally was arraigned before Justice

Joseph S. Tracy, of Larchmont, who imposed a ﬁne of twenty
dollars.

Michael O’Connor was arrested by an ofﬁcer of the Society
for driving a horse with sore under collar—ﬁstulous withers.
O’Connor was tried in the Court of Special Sessions, First
Division, Judge Jacobs presiding, convicted and sentenced
to pay a ﬁne of twenty—ﬁve dollars, or the alternative of
twelve days in the City Prison.

Giusseppe Zanzerrio was tried in the Court of Special Ses-
sions, First Division, Judge Jacobs presiding, for beating
with a whip a team of overloaded horses, and was conv1cted

and ﬁned thirty—ﬁve dollars, with the alternative of ten days
in the City Prison.

For causing, procuring, and permitting a horse to be
worked while suffering from sores upon the breast unpro-
tected from the harness, Martin J. Walsh, owner, was ﬁned
ﬁfty dollars by the Court of Special Sessions, Second Divi—
sion, Judge Flemming presiding.

Alphonse Hartog was tried in the Court of Special 565-
sions, First Division, Judge Jacobs presiding, for having
kicked a dog in the belly and breaking three ribs. Hartog
was convicted and ﬁned twenty—ﬁve dollars, with the alterna-
tive of ten days in the City Prison.

John Morrison, for driving a horse attached to an express
wagon, while lame, weak, and feeble, suffering in its body and
limbs, was ﬁned twenty-ﬁve dollars by the Court of Special
Sessions, Second Division, Judge Fitzgerald presiding.

Dr. George H. Sayer was convicted in the Court of Special
. Sessions, Second D

ivision, for having kicked and beat a dog

 

  

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

IHbEASED.AND “(M{

H—OUT HORSE, FOUND AI'3AN1)(‘)1\EI’), “\NI)

Ig)lCS'l‘I{(_)\'lCI) BY OFFICER 0F
SOCIE'I‘Y




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Aug. 24.

Aug. 29.

Aug. 29.

Sept. 2.

Sept. II.

Sept. I I.

Sept. I I.

 

  

50

a dog, causing it great physical pain, and upon their plea of
guilty were ﬁned ﬁve dollars each by Justice Myron B. Field.

For overdriving and cruelly beating a horse Harry Stein-
metz was ﬁned ten dollars by Judge William C. Kellog, of
Yonkers.

Daniel B: Simons, stable foreman for the Consolidated Ice
Company, was convicted and ﬁned one hundred dollars by
the Court of Special Sessions, Second Division, Judge
Courtney presiding, for having permitted a horse to be
worked while lame in the. nigh fore foot, caused by quitter, a
most painful and rarely curable disease.

Jeremiah Dunn was ﬁned twenty-ﬁve dollars by the Court
of Special Sessions, Second Division, Judge Courtney pre—
siding, for compelling a horse to haul a heavily loaded ice
wagon, the animal at the time being very lame in the nigh
fore foot, caused by quitter, The animal was in a pitiful con—
dition when stopped by the Society’s ofﬁcer.

Arthur Du Ross, of Ticonderoga, New York, was ﬁned
ﬁve dollars by Justice J. M. Crammond for failing to provide
necessary sustenance and drink for several hogs owned by
the defendant.

Michael Roneser, for cruelly beating an old, emaciated
horse suffering at the time from old sores on the back and
hip, unprotected from the harness, also lame, weak, and
feeble, was sentenced to pay a ﬁne of twenty-ﬁve dollars or
to be imprisoned for ten days by the Court of Special Ses-
sions, First Division, Judge Hinsdale presiding.

Barney Pellman was sentenced to pay a ﬁne of thirty-ﬁve
dollars or to be conﬁned ﬁfteen days in the City Prison by the
Court of Special Sessions, First Division, Judge Hinsdale
presiding, for beating a team of horses that were in an ex-
hausted, weak, and feeble condition. “The horses were
played out, and I told the defendant so.” testiﬁed a citizen—
witness, “but he only laughed and said, ‘I guess I know
they are only lazy, and I’ll make them go.’ ”

For beating a horse in a cruel manner over the head and
body with a whip, Stephen Meagher was sentenced to pay a

 
   
   
  

  

 




3—1“,

 

 

Sept. 12.

. Sept. I7.

Sept. 25.

Sept. 25.

Oct. 4.

,51

ﬁne of ten dollars or to be imprisoned for three days in the
Court of Special Sessions, First Division, Judge Jerome
presiding.

Michael Henry, for causing and permitting a team of
horses suffering at the time from sores on the body unpro-
tected from the harness, and in otherwise disabled condition,
to be worked, was ﬁned twenty—ﬁve dollars by the Court of
Special Sessions, Second Division, Judge Courtney pre-
siding.

Samuel Locoodustein was arrested by an ofﬁcer of the
Society for driving a team of horses harnessed to a loaded
ice wagon belonging to the Consolidated Ice Company. The
horses were both suffering at the time from large old sores
upon the neck unprotected from the harness. The veterinary
surgeon, when testifying to the condition of the horses, de-
clared that they must have suffered greatly while engaged in
drawing the heavily loaded truck. The defendant, however,
was only the driver, and was compelled to take the horses out
in the condition described. Upon this statement being made
to the City Magistrate, a warrant was issued for the arrest of
Joe Young, the foreman of the stable, who was convicted
in the Court of Special Sessions, Second Division, Judge
Fitzgerald presiding, of having caused, procured, and per-
mitted the above—mentioned horses to be worked, and was
ﬁned seventy-ﬁve dollars or the alternative period in jail.

Ciro Di Pasquito was sentenced to pay a ﬁne of ﬁfteen
dollars or to be imprisoned ﬁve days in the Court of Special
Sessions, First Division, Judge Jerome presiding, upon con-
viction of having beaten a horse with a whip in a cruel man-
ner. The animal at the time was in a weak, exhausted
condition, and was hardly able to stand upon its feet.

Samuel Fried, for driving a horse harnessed to a loaded
merchandise wagon while lame, sore, weak, and feeble, was
ﬁned ten dollars by the Court of Special Sessions, First
Division. The horse was humanely disposed of.
l

James McMahon was sentenced to pay a ﬁne of twenty—ﬁve
dollars by the Court of Special Sessions, Second Division,

Judge Fitzgerald presiding, upon his conviction of having

 

 




  

52

beat a horse upon the head and body with a heavy stick of
WOOd.

Oct. 9. Charles Opain, a horse trainer, was arrested on complaint

of a citizen for beating a horse in a most cruel manner. The
complainant testiﬁed at the trial of Opain, before the Court
of Special Sessions, that while riding up Fifth Avenue he
heard the slashing of a whip, and, looking behind, saw de-
fendant beating a horse unmercifully. Complainant called
to Opain to stop abusing the horse, but the latter gave no
heed, and continued the beating until arrested. Other Wit-
nesses testiﬁed to the cruelty. The defendant was found
guilty, and presiding Judge Jacobs sentenced Opain to pay a
ﬁne of ﬁfty dollars or to be imprisoned for twenty days.

Oct. IO. For driving a poor, lame, weak, and emaciated horse, Tedri
Imprial was convicted by the Court of Special Sessmns,
First Division, Judge Jerome presiding, and sentenced to

pay a ﬁne of twenty-ﬁve dollars, or, in default of payment,
to ten days in the City Prison.

Oct. 10. Presiding Judge Jerome, of the Court of Special Sessions,
First Division, imposed a sentence of ﬁfteen dollars, with
the alternative of ﬁve days in the City Prison, upon John F.
Kirchner for jerking and kicking a horse in a very cruel
manner. “ The kind of cruelty you are charged with having
inflicted on the horse must be stopped,” said Judge Jerome,
“ and I advise you not to be brought here on a similar charge
again; if you are it will go hard with you.”

 

 

 

 

Oct. II. Patrick McFeely, of Salisbury, was ﬁned ﬁve dollars by

Justice W. H. Bacon, of Dolgeville, for carrying sheep in a
cruel and inhuman manner.

Oct. 15. Justice J. R. Wheeler, of Farmer, New York, imposed a
sentence of ﬁve dollars, or, in default of payment, ﬁve days
in the Seneca County Jail, upon Gilbert Bishop, of Ovid,
for overdriving and cruelly beating a brown mare.

 

Oct. I6. Patrick

Mournian was convicted by the Court of Special
Sessions,

First Division, Judge Jerome presiding, for driving
a horse with sores on each side of b
.; ‘ ' tected from the h
I-

 

 

ack and breast, unpro-
arness, and was sentenced to pay a ﬁne of

 

 

 

 
  
 
     
    
    
  
    
     
 
      
    
     
  
   
    
   
 
  
     
   

 




 

 

Oct. 17.

Oct. 20.

Oct. 20.

Oct. 31.

Nov. 1.

Nov. 3.

53

twenty—ﬁve dollars, or, in default of payment, to ten days in
the City Prison.

For cruelly beating a team of mules, William Everson, of
Greenport, was arrested by an ofﬁcer of the Society and taken
before Police Justice Jacob Hollenbeck, who imposed a
sentence of twenty dollars and thirty days’ imprisonment,
and, in default of payment of the ﬁne, to be imprisoned one
day for each dollar of the ﬁne imposed, unpaid, in addition
to the prison sentence of thirty days.

John McManus was arrested by an ofﬁcer of the Society
for driving a gray horse suffering from sores on the breast,
unprotected from the harness, as well as being in a weak
and exhausted condition. McManus plead guilty to the
charge of cruelty before the Court of Special Sessions, First
Division, Judge Jacobs presiding, and was sentenced to pay a
ﬁne of twenty-ﬁve dollars, or, in default of payment, be im-
prisoned for ten days in the City Prison.

For picking a dog up by the legs and dashing its head
against the curbstone, then kicking the animal in a cruel
manner, Anton Hasslacher was sentenced to pay a ﬁne of
ﬁfty dollars, with the alternative of twenty days in the City
Prison, by the Court of Special Sessions, First Division,
Judge Jacobs presiding. “ A most cruel and wanton act of
cruelty,” said Judge Jacobs when passing sentence.

For driving a horse harnessed to a delivery wagon, while
lame in both hind legs caused by interfering cuts, also sores
on both hind quarters chafed by the breeching, John Durand
was convicted by the Court of Special Sessions, First Divi-
sion, Judge Jacobs presiding, and sentenced to pay a ﬁne of
twenty~ﬁve dollars, with the alternative of ten days in the
City Prison.

For kicking a horse several times in the belly and jerking
the bit in a cruel manner, Aaron Levine was convicted by the
Court of Special Sessions, First Division, Judge Hinsdale
presiding. and sentenced to pay a ﬁne of ﬁfteen dollars, or, in
default of payment, to imprisonment for ﬁve days in the City
Prison.

For causing, procuring, and permitting one Henry Hin-
ners to work a horse that was in a weak and feeble condition

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Nov. 8.

Nov. 10.

Nov. 13.

Nov. 15.

Nov. 16.

  

54

and suffering from sores on breast and back, unprotected
from the harness, Albert H. Silsby was convicted by the
Court of Special Sessions, First Division, Judge Jacobs pre-
siding, and sentenced to pay a ﬁne of twenty-ﬁve dollars or
to be imprisoned for ten days. '

For working a horse to a loaded coal—cart, with sore on
off side Of withers three by two and one-half inches, Edward
McLaughlin was convicted by the Court of Special Sessions,
First Division, Judge Jacobs presiding, and sentenced to pay
a ﬁne of twenty dollars, with the alternative of ﬁve days in
the City Prison.

George McPherson was arrested by one of the Society’s
ofﬁcers while driving a horse which was in a lame, sore,
weak, and feeble condition, and suffering in its body and
limbs. The condition of the horse was such as to warrant
its being taken to a hospital. The defendant was sentenced
to pay a ﬁne of ﬁfty dollars or to spend a corresponding
number of days in prison by the Court of Special Sessions
of the Second Division.

For unmercifully beating a horse over the head and body,
drawing blood at every stroke, Tony Frank, of Williams-
bridge, was ﬁned ten dollars by Magistrate John A. Van
Zeim, of New Rochelle.

One of the most atrocious acts of cruelty with which the
Society has had to deal was that of Antonio Garozzi, who
was arrested for leading a pair of sick horses, one a roan,
with off fore foot broken at fetlock joint, the hoof turning up
and blood pouring from the broken part; the other, a black,
being so weak across its back that it fell in the street.
Both animals were at once humanely destroyed. When ar-
raigned in the Court of Special Sessions, First Division,
Judge Jacobs presiding, Garozzi was sentenced to pay a
ﬁne of seventy-ﬁve dollars, or. in default of payment, to be
conﬁned for sixty days in the City Prison.

For beating an exhausted and overloaded team of horses
John Smith was sentenced to pay a ﬁne of twenty-ﬁve dollars,
with the alternative of ten days in the City Prison, by the
Court of Special Sessions, First Division, Judge Jacobs pre-
siding. -

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
  
  
 
   
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  

 




 

N 0v.

Dec.

Dec.

Dec.

27.

II.

13.

55

James Hayers was tried in the Court of Special Sessions,
First Division, Judge McKean presiding, for working a
horse, harnessed to a coal-cart, while suffering from sores
on the body three by three inches and two by two inches,
and sentenced to pay a ﬁne of twenty—ﬁve dollars, or, in
default of payment, to be committed to the City Prison for
ten days.

For failing to provide food and drink for two bulls that
were confined in a freight car for many hours at the railroad
freight yard at Yonkers, Morris Gestner was sentenced to
pay a ﬁne of ﬁfteen dollars, or the alternative of ﬁfteen days
in jail, by Judge William C. Kellogg.

John Sacco was convicted by the Court of Special Sessions,
First Division, Judge McKean presiding, for compelling a
horse that was very lame in near fore foot caused by quarter-
crack to haul a loaded truck, and sentenced to pay a ﬁne of
twenty—ﬁve dollars, or, in default of payment, to be im—
prisoned for ten days in the City Prison.

Magistrate John A. Van Zelm, of New Rochelle, imposed
a ﬁne of ﬁve dollars upon one John VVilmar for driving a
horse harnessed to a feed wagon, while suffering from a
horrible sore on the breast two by two and one—half inches
in size. The animal was also very lame and unﬁt for work.

One of the most ﬁendish acts of cruelty ever prosecuted
by the Society was the sewing up of the eyes of two live
chickens. Charles H. Aitken, the Society’s special agent,
resident of Herkimer, arrested the human brute, one Joseph
Fiore, an Italian, and arraigned him before Police Justice
Gray, along with the tortured animals, the latter as speech-
less witnesses of man’s inhumanity. The eyelids were sewed
close together, and a pair of scissors were used to cut the
stitches. Fiore plead guilty, but claimed that in Italy it was
the custom to sew up chickens’ eyes when they wanted to fat-
ten them quickly—that when the animals could not see they
would not run around and would get fat quickly. It was
said that Fiore kept the fowls in a barrel, and that his wife
fed them by opening their mouths and forcing the food
down. Judge Gray said that because such inhuman prac-
tices were tolerated in Italy, so far as it was in his power
they should not be in Herkimer, and sentenced the defendant
to pay a ﬁne of twenty dollars.

 




 

  
    
 
 
 
 
    
     
   
    

 

 

 

 

a NE‘N YORK '

OUR ANIMAL FRIENDS

A/V ILLUSTRATED ﬂ/OJVTHLY ﬂl/IGAZZNE

 

 

THE ORGAN OF

 

The AmericaLSgCiitLjor the Prevention of

 

Cruelty to Animals.

 

 

CONTAINING ORIGINAL AND INSTRUCTIVE ARTICLES 0F lNTEREST TO ALL ANIMAL OWNERS

 

HEADQUARTERS NOTES COURT NOTES

THERLIBRARY THE VETERINARIAN

YOUNG PEOPLE’S MUSEUM, ETCp.

Also Serial and Short Stories and Interesting Miscellany by Well-KnownWriters

 

NE“

SUBSCRIPTION, ONE DOLLAR PER YEAR

Published at the Headquarters of the Society, Madison Avenue and

Twenty-sixth Street, New York

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

DRINKING FOUNTAINS FOR MAN AND
BEAST.

There is great need for additional drinking fountains for man
and beast. The Society has already erected many and is increas-
ing the number as fast as its funds will allow. A most appropri~
ate donation could be made by friends of animals, by the erection
of fountains under the direction of the Society, and bearing the
names of the donors. The cost of erecting a fountain similar to
that represented in the above illustration, including plate with

name of donor, is, in the City of New York, about two hundred

and ﬁfty dollars.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

SOCIETIES OF NORTH AND SOUTH
AMERICA.

SOCIETIES IN NORTH AND SOUTH AMERICA ORGANIZED AND INCOR-
PORATED SINCE THE FORMATION OF THE AMERICAN SOCIETY
FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS~THE
PARENT SOCIETY—AND IN CORRESPONDENCE WITH IT. ‘

 

NEW YORK.

THE AMERICAN SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF
CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.

Incorporated April 10, I866.
HEADQUARTERS:
Madison Ave. and 26th St., NEIV YORK. _
JOHN P. HAINES, President. JOHN MASON KNOX, Sec.
BROOKLYN OFFICE:
I 3 Willoughby Street.
F. O. CLARK, Inspector.

 

ALABAMA.
Mobile Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
16 South Royal Street, ZVIobile.
DR. JOSEPH B. PATT, Pres. I MAJOR E. R. QUATTLEBAUM,

Secretary.
Birmingham Humane Society.
715 Eighteenth Street, Birmingham.
REV. SAMUEL ULLMAN,Pres. DR. A. N. BALLARD, Secretary.

 

ARIZONA.
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals of Tucson, Ariz.
Tuesori. .
WM. HERRING, President. LEMUEL H. MCHENRY, Sec.-

    




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

62

ARKANSAS.

Arkansas Humane Society.

Little Rock.
LOUIS BLASS, President. R. W. PORTER, Secretary.

 

CALIFORNIA.
The San Francisco Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals.
403 Parrott Building, San Francisco.
N. P. COLE, President. C. B. HOLBROOK, Secretary.
The Los Angeles Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

 

Los Angeles.

DR. T. A. SEYMOUR, Pres. MRS. ELIZABETH MILLS
‘ MILLARD, Secretary.

Santa Clara County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals.

45 North First Street, San fose.
COL. A. K. WHITTON, Pres. C. C. LELAND, Secretary.
San Diego Humane Society.
San Diego.
ARTHUR G. NASON, Pres. H. H. PALMER, Secretary.
The Sacramento County Humane Society.
514 “ K ” Street, Sacramento.
GEO. D. SMITH, President. I. SCHAD, Secretary.
The Oakland Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
906 Broadway, Oakland.
MRS. E. E. GREENMAN, Pres. G. G. KENNEDY, Secretary.

Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals of San Bernardino
County, Cal.

Redlands.
EZRA CROSSMAN President.

 

, Sec.

 

Santa Barbara Humane Society.

Hopkins Block, Room 5, Santa Barbara.
RONALD THOMAS, President. EDWARD T. BALCH, Sec.

 

 




 

 

    

63

Santa. Cruz County Humane Society.

Santa C rnz.
DR. C. L. ANDERSON, Pres. MRS. D. T. WILKIN, Secretary.

Fresno Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

 

Fresno.

W. B. PARSONS, President. WM. HARVEY, Secretary.
Marin County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Sansalito.

A. SYLVA, President. DR. C. E. CASE, Secretary.
COLORADO.

Colorado Humane Society.
5 Jacobson Brnlding, Denver.

WALTER S. CHEESMAN, E. K. WHITEHEAD, Secretary.
President. '

El Paso County Branch of the Colorado Humane Society.
Colorado Springs.
WM. F. SLOCUM, President. F. B. HILL, Secretary.

 

CONNECTICUT.
The Connecticut Humane Society.
H arlford.

REV. WM. DE LOSS LOVE, CHANDLER E. MILLER, Sec.
President. .

The New Haven Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
N ew H aven.
PROF. WM. H. BREWER, Pres. EDWIN A. SMITH, Secretary.

Meriden Humane Society.

M eriden.
MRS. MARY J. ROGERS, Pres. MRs. FRANCES W. HAM-
MOND, Secretary.
DELAWARE.

Delaware Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
606 Market Street, W ilmington. '

DR. EVAN G. SHORTLIDGE, WILLARD II. PORTER, sec.
President.




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

64

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
The Washington Humane Society.

Room IO, Sun Building, W ashlngton, D. C.
A. S. PRATT, President. - MRS. W. F. S-TOWELL, Sec.

—_

FLORIDA.
St. Augustine Humane Society.
5 t. Augustine.
WARD G. FOSTER, President. LOUIS LARSON, Secretary.
The Jacksonville Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Jacksonville.
O.,PIERRE HAVENS, Pres. B. H. CHADWICK, Secretary. ‘
Humane Society.
Pensacola. .
S. S. HARVEY, President. FRANK MAURA, Secretary.
Hillsborough County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals.

Tampa.
W. G. BARTHOLOMEW, Pres. MISS JENNY'E. BABBITT, Sec.

 

GEORGIA.
Georgia Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
I A] c] ntosh Street, Augusta.
HON. HENRY B. KING, Pres. S. R. CRAIG, Secretary.
Atlanta Humane Society.
Atlanta.
JOS. F. BURKE, President. I. S. PANCHEN, Secretary.
Brunswick Humane Society.

Brunswick.
WM. C. DOWNING, President. MRS. I. E. DU BIGNON, Sec.

 

ILLINOIS.
The Illinois Humane Society.
560, Wabash Avenue, Chicago.
JOHN G. SHORTALL, Pres. BELDEN F. CULVER, Sec.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

r_ONE OF THE AMBULANCES USED FOR THE TRANSPORTATION OF SMALL ANIMALS

 

 

 

 




 

 

    

 

    

67

Winnebago County Branch of The Illinois Humane Society.

Rockford.
“’31. H. FITCH, M.D., Pres. MRS. ROBERT REW, Secretary.
The Quincy Humane Society.
Quincy.

H. P. WALTON, President. ' LYMAN MCCARL, Secretary.
The Shelby County Branch of The Illinois Humane Society.
Shelbyvllle.

DR. T. L. CATHERVVOOD, MRS. H. J. HAMLIN, Secretary.
President.

Champaign Branch of The Illinois Humane Society.
C hampa l gm.
HENRY TREVETT, President. A. H. BRYAN, Secretary.

The Humane Society of Springﬁeld.
Springﬁeld.
FRANK W. TRACY, President. HOWARD K. WEBER, Sec.

Jacksonville Humane Society.
Jacksonville.

A. C. WADSWORTH, Pres. WM. PATERSON, Sec. pro term.
The J erseyville Humane Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals and Children.

Jerseyzrille.

Miss ADA C. DAVENPORT, DR. H. R. GLEDHILL, Sec.

President.

Harvard Branch of The Illinois Humane Society.
H arz'ard .
\V. C. WELLINGTON, Pres. MRS. W. C. WELLINGTON,

Secretary.

United States Humane Society.
I3 East M am Street, Danvllle.
JOHN W. HALLS. President. I. N. KINNEY, Secretary.

The Whitehall Humane Society._
Whitehall.
FRANCIS FOWLER, Pres. H O. TUNISON, Secretary.

 

 

 

 

 




  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

JOHN L. MILLER, President.

68

 
 
  
 

INDIANA.
The Indiana Humane Society.
42 Lombard Building, Indianapolis.
HORACE MCKAY, President. JAMES SMITH, Secretary.

  

 
     
   
  
 
 
 
  
  
     
   
     
   
    
    

Montgomery County Humane Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals and Children.

C raw fordsville.
'GEORGE W. PAUL, President. A. H. BRADEN, Secretary.
The Evansville Humane Society for .the Prevention of Cruelty to
Women, Children, and Animals.
315 U pper Fourth Street, Evansville.
S. S. SCANTLIN, President. WILL WARREN, Secretary.

 

Fort Wayne Humane Society.
82 Clinton Street, Fort Wayne.
GEO. H. WILSON, President. C. E. ARCHER, Secretary.
The South Bend Humane Society.
S oath Bend.

C. O. WILDER, President. H. A. PERSHING, Secretary.

Terre Haute Humane Society.
Terre H ante.
DR. E. E. GLOVER, President. DR. E. B. MCALLISTER. Sec.
Muncie Humane Society.
[Wt/”167:6.
DR. T. J. BOWLES, President. W. R. MOORE, Secretary.
The Elkhart Humane Society.
206 Main Street, El/ehart.
A. P. KENT, President. LOUIS M. SIMPSON, Sec.
Wayne County Humane Society.
Richmond.
J. EDGAR ILIFF, President. MRS. FRANK M. CLARK, Sec.
The Humane Society of Peru, Ind.
Peril.
MRS. M. PUTERBAUGH, Sec.

  

 




 

 

 

  

69

Kokomo Humane Society.

 

Kokorno. .
E. N. COLE, President. MISS MINNIE A. TRUE-
BLOOD, Secretary.
IOWA.

The Iowa Humane Society.

Des M oines.
JAMES CALLANAN, Pres.
The Sioux City Humane Society.

S iona‘ City.
REV. GEO. H. CORNELL, Pres. EDWARD CROMWELL, Sec.

 

KANSAS.
The Kansas Humane Society.
W icln'ta.

J. M. KNAPP, President. MRS. E. G. ROBERTS, Sec.

The Foster Humane Society.
. Topeka. »
ALBERT H. HORTON, Pres. SAM RADGES, Secretary.

KENTUCKY.
Kentucky Humane Society for Prevention of Cruelty.
[Masonic Temple, 41 I West Green Street, Louisville.
JOHN H. LEATHERS, Pres. MISS BERTHA WILSON, Sec.

Henderson Humane Society.
Henderson.
INGRAM CROCKETT, Sec.

 

, President.

Franklin County Humane Society.
Frankfort.
LOUIS MANGAN, President. B. T. FARMER, Secretary.

The Kenton County Humane Society.
915 Scott Street, Covington.

H. A. SCHROETTER, Pres. MRS. FRANCES C. MANSER
Secretary.

JO SEPH . R. O RVVI G, Secretary.

  
    
   
  
  
    
    
 
  
    
     
  
  
      
     
    

 

  




  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

7O

 
 
 

LOUISIANA.
Louisiana State Society for Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
606 Commercial Place, N ew Orleans.

FREDERICK W." YOUNG, JOHN S. WATERMAN, Sec.
President. .

  
 

—-—.—_—

MAINE.
Maine State Society for the Protection of Animals.
Portland.

HON. STANLEY T. PULLEN, DR. H. C. VAUGHAN, Sec.
President. -

 

The Bangor Humane Society.
Bangor.
JOSEPH F. SNOW, President. MRS. M. L. PATTEN, Secretary.

Waterville Society for Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
l’l/aterville.
CHAS. H. REDINGTON, Pres. JOHN WARE, Secretary.

Lewiston and Auburn Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
' Animals.

Lezoiston.
WESLEY BLANCHARD, Pres. F. B. SANDS, Secretary.

 

MARYLAND.

The Maryland Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
323 N ortli Charles Street, Baltimore.
G. M. HUTTON, President. GEO. R. TIPPETT, Secretary.

*—

MASSACHUSETTS.

The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals.

19 Milk Street, Boston.
GEO. T. 'ANGELL, President. JOSEPH L. STEVENS, Sec.

Taunton Humane Society.
18 Clinton Street, Taimton.

REV. T. CLAYTON WELLES, MRS. THOS. J. TAYLOR, Sec.
President.

  

 

 




 

 

71

The Lowell Humane Society.
71 Central Street, Lowell.
C. H. COBURN, President. MRS. GEO. F. RICHARDSON,

Secretary.

—_—_.

MICHIGAN.
Michigan Society for the Prevention of. Cruelty to Animals.
Detroit.
HON. T. W. PALMER, Pres. T. A. PARKER, Secretary.

Kent County Humane Society.
Grancl Rapids.
REV. LESLIE W. SPRAGUE, A. C. TORREY, Secretary.
President.
Kalamazoo Humane Society.
Kalamasoo.
HON. A. J. MILLS, President. SAMUEL FOLZ, Secretary.

——

MINNESOTA.
The Minnesota Society for the Prevention of Cruelty.
Relief Society Building, 141 East Ninth Street, 5 t. Paul.
DANIEL R. NOYES, President. THOMAS A. ABBOTT, Sec.

Minneapolis Humane Society.
504 Bank of C ommeree Building, Miimeapolis.
FRANK H. FORBES, Pres. MRS. C. A. MEISER, Secretary.

Duluth Humane Society.
415 Providence Block, Dnlntli.
REV. A. W. RYAN,.President. H. W. MERCHANT, Secretary.

St. Paul Society for Prevention of Cruelty.
Chamber of Commerce Building, St. Paul.
W. L. W'ILSON, President. Miss A. V. WRIGHT, Secretary.

Steele County Humane Society.
Ozeatonna.

B. S. COOK, President. DR. W. AMOS, Secretary.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

72

The Winona Humane Society.
Winona.
REV. ALLAN BELL, President. A. W. FUHRMAN, Secretary.

St. Cloud Humane Society.
St. Cloud.
WM. B. MITCHELL, President. S. S. PARR, Secretary.

The Red Wing Humane Society.
Red Wing.
A. J. MEACHAM, President. DR. F. W. DIMMITT, Secretary.

Rochester Humane Society.
Rochester.
REV. J. F. TAINTOR, Pres. J. W. SOULE, Secretary.

Stillwater Humane Society.
. Stillwatei’.
G. E. CLARK, President. FRANK T. WILSON, Secretary.

 

MISSISSIPPI.
The Mississippi Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Natchez.
JOHN P. WALWORTH, Pres. RICHARD F. REED, Secretary.

 

MISSOURI.
The Humane Society of Missouri.
506 and 508 Columbia Building, Eighth and Locust Streets,
5 t. Louis.
GEO. D. BARNARD, President. JOHN H. HOLMES, Secretary.

The Woman’s Humane Society of Missouri.
3401 Washington Avenue, S t. Louis.
MRS. T. G. COMSTOCK, Pres. Mrss AGNUS BRADY. Sec.

_ The Humane Society of Kansas City, Mo.
City Hall, Kansas City.

HON. EDWIN R. WEEKS. F. M. FURGASON, Secretary.
President.

 
   

 

  

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

STEEL GAS TANK FOR THE

HUMANE DESTRUCTION OF SMALL ANIMALS

Shelter for Animals. 102d Street and East Ri

ver, New York. (See description, page 159.)

 

 




  

(See description, page 159.)

.u “an ixiver, new York.

 

 

 

 

75

The Humane Society of St. Joseph, Mo.
Central Police Station, 5 t. Joseph.
HUSTON WYETH, President. M. B. TOWNSEND, Secretary.

The Humane Society of Sedalia, Mo.‘
Sedalia.
H. T. WILLIAMS, President. LEE MONTGOMERY, Sec.

 

NEBRASKA.
The Nebraska Humane Society.
I 5 Commercial National Bank Building, Omaha.
DR. GEO. L. MILLER, Pres. H. S. MANN, Secretary.

The South Omaha Humane Society.
South Omaha.
COL. J. L. MARTIN, President. MISS HETTIE MOORE, Sec.

 

NEW HAMPSHIRE.
New Hampshire Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
I Market Street, Portsmouth.
JOHN J. PICKERING, Pres. JAMES R. MAY, Secretary.

The Keene Humane Society.
Keene.
GEN. S. G. GRIFFIN, President. MRS. JOSEPH MADDEN, Sec.

 

NEW JERSEY.
The New Jersey Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
507 Prudential Building, Newark.

CHRISTOPHER ROBERTS, COL. E. S. EDWARDS, Sec.
President.

The Hudson County District Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals.

I 71 Montgomery Street, Jersey City.

GEORGE M. MCCARTHY, ABEL P. BROWN, Secretary.
President.

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

  




   
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

' Perth Amboy Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

  

76

Cape May County, N. J., District Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals.

Cape May.
DR. EMLIN PHYSICK, Pres. T. R. BROOKS, Secretary.

 
   
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
 
   
   
  
    

The Vineland Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
‘ Vineland.
REV. R. B. MOORE, President. REV. R. B. MOORE, Secretary.

 

The Morris County Branch of The New Jersey Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

M 07*7/ist0wn.

DR. E. FAYETTE SMITH, MISS LOUISE SHELTON, Sec.

President.
The Camden Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
' C (Wilden.
WILLIAM J. COOPER, Pres. A. T. SELLERS, Secretary.

The Bergen County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals.

Ha C/Béi'lSClC/B.
REV. JOHN C. VOORHIS, Pres. WALTER ELY, Secretary.

The Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals of Union
County, N. J.

Elizabeth.

E. P. EDWARDS, President. J. C. COLE, Secretary.

Perth A mboy.

L. BENTON, President. WILBUR LA ROE, Secretary.

Cranford, Union County, Branch of The New Jersey Society for
. the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

C ran ford .

GEORGE A. MORRISON. ALFRED H. MILLER, Sec.

President.

 

  




 

 

77
Passaic County District Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
‘ Animals.
119 Ellison S trect, Paterson.
-—— RYERSON, President. EUGENE PULIS, Secretary.

Somerset County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
S orrierville.
JOHN H. LORD, President. JOHN VOORHEES, Secretary.

Princeton Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Princeton.
W". B. GREENE, JR., President. MISS M. C. SCUDDER, Sec.

District Society in Lodi, Bergen County.
Lodi.
JAMES W. MERCER, Pres. JACOB VAN HOOK, Secretary.

The Essex County District Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals.

Orange.
J. L. ESTEE, President. E. P. VAN WAGENEN, Sec.

Ridgewood Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Ridgr'wood.
MRS. C. C. HARRISON, Pres. JOHN ALEXANDER, Sec.

—_

NEW YORK.

WESTCHESTER COUNTY.
The Sing Sing Branch of The American Society for the Prevention
of Cruelty to Animals.
Incorporated March 12, 1883.
S iizg S iiig.

CLINTON S. ARNOLD, Pres. MARGARET C. MILLER, Sec.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

78

MONROE COUNTY.
The Humane Society of Rochester, N. Y., for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals.
Incorporated August 9, I888.
723 Powers Block, Rochester.
J. B. Y. WARNER, President. MISS S. HYATT, Secretary.

ERIE COUNTY.

The Erie County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Incorporated September 21, I888.

39 Erie Street, Buﬁ‘alo.
REV. O. P. GIFFORD, Pres. MRS. LILY LORD TIFFT, Sec.

DUTCHESS COUNTY.
The Poughkeepsie Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals.
Incorporated May 18, I889.
305 M ill Street, Poztg/tkeepsie.

WILLIAM B. CARPENTER, CHARLES F. COSSUM, Sec.
President.

ORANGE COUNTY.

The N ewburg Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Incorporated July 22, 1889.
N etc/burg.
GEORGE W. PETERS, Pres. A. E. LAYMAN, Secretary.

OSVVEGO COUNTY.
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals of Oswego City,
N. Y.
Incorporated September 23, I889.
Doolittle House, Oswego.
CHAS. H. BOND, President. MRS. G. M. GARDENIER, Sec.

 

 




 

 

  

79
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals of the Village of
Fulton, N. Y.
Incorporated November 17, 1891.
Fulton.
THOMAS HUNTER, President. MRS. C. H. DAVID, Secretary-

ONONDAGA COUNTY.

The Central New York Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals.

Incorporated January 16, 1891.
207 Granger Bloc/e, Syracuse.
DWIGHT H. BRUCE, Pres. JOHN R. CLANCY, Secretary.

ROCKLAND COUNTY.

Rockland County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Incorporated February 20, 1891.

N yack.

DR. HARVEY C. GILCHREST, WILLIAM K. COLSEY, Sec-
President.

CHEMUNG COUNTY.
The Elmira Society for the Prevention of Cruelty' to Animals.
Incorporated February 21, I891.
Elmira.

DR. FRANK H. FLOOD, Pros. MRS. SEYMOUR DEXTER,
Secretary-

BROOME COUNTY.

Broome County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Incorporated March 23, 1891.

B in ghamton.

ULSTER COUNTY.
The Ulster County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to

Animals.
Incorporated July 25, 1891.
Kingston.
JOHN MCENTEE, President. W. D. HALE, Secretary-
5 /

 

 

 

 

  




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   
   
     
   
       

 

   
  
  

8o

JEFFERSON COUNTY.

Jefferson County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Incorporated December 5, I891.

IVatertown.
MRS. GEO. H. BABCOCK, Sec.

  

 
    
    
 
  
 

JNO. C. KNOWLTON,
Acting President.

 

ALBANY COUNTY.
The Mohawk and Hudson River Humane Society.
Incorporated March 8, I892.
287 State Street, Albany.
DR. WM. O. STILLMAN, Pres. GEORGE R. HOWELL, Sec.

NIAGARA COUNTY.

The Niagara County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals. ‘

Incorporated May 24, 1895.
Lac/apart.

MISS ALICE E. CROCKER,
Secretary.

F; J. SAWYER, President.

CORTLAND COUNTY.

The Cortland County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals.

Incorporated April 17, I895.
Cortland .
CALVIN P. WALRAD, Pres. ENOS E. MELLON, Secretary.

ONEIDA COUNTY.
The Stevens Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals of
Rome, N. Y.
Incorporated March 31, I896.
Rome.

DR. C. OLIN ZIN’IIVIERMANN, ARTHUR A. GILLETTE. Sec.
President. ‘

 




 

 

 

 

82

Toledo Humane Society.
3 I 3 Adams! Street, Toledo.
HON. JAMES. M. BROWN, W. W. H. SMITH, Secretary.
President.

The Trumbull County Humane Society.

Warren.
GEORGE P. HUNTER, Pres. MARY C. IDDINGS, Secretary.

Dayton, Ohio, Humane Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Children and Animals.

' 8 North Jefferson Street, Dayton.
IRWIN C. SOUDERS, Pres. BENJAMIN MAROT, Sec.

Athens Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Athens.
L. A. KOONS, President. MRs. A. J. FRAME, Secretary.

The Erie County Humane Society.
5 and ns/ey.

A. E. MERRILL, President. MRS. FANNY F. EVERETT,
Secretary.

Scioto County Humane Society.
Portsmouth.
E. E. EWING, President. HARRY BALL, Secretary.

Ashtabula County Humane Society.
Ashtabula.
w. M. STRADER, President. MRS. w. M. PENFIELD, Sec.

The Chagrin Falls Humane Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Children and Animals.

Chagrin Falls.
A. H. WILLIAMS, President. CHE. RYDER, Secretary.

Pomeroy Branch Humane Society.
Pomeroy.
REV. MR. SCHMITZ, President. MRS. H. J. EWING, Secretary.

 

 




  

83

The Youngstown {Humane Society.
Youngstown.
REV. S. R. FRAZIER, President. LILLIAN F. PIERCE, Sec.

Yellow Springs Humane Society.
Yellow Springs.
CHARLES HAMILTON, Pres. CHARLES E. ADAMS, Sec.

Seneca County Humane Society.
Titﬁn. ,
DR. E. J. MCCOLLUM, Pres. IRVINE N. REX, Secretary.

The Chardon Humane Society.
Chardon.
L. C. COWLES, President. M. L. MAYNARD, Secretary.

Huron County Humane Society.

N orwalk.

F. B. CASE, President. MISS MARY A. STEWART,S€C.

The Humane Society of New Lexington.
N ew Lexington.

REV. HENRY BEEMAN, Pres. MRS. FRANCES L. RINE-
HART, Secretary.

The Lima Branch of The 'Ohio Humane Society.
Lima.
DR. SHELBY MURNAUGH, MRS. W. A. GERMANN, Sec.

President.

 

OREGON.
The Oregon Humane Society.
207 Second Street, Portland.
DAVID P. THOMPSON, Pres. W. T. SHANAHAN, Secretary.

 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
   
 
 
  
   
  
  
 
 
 
     




   
    
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

JOHN D. MISHLER. President.

84

PENNSYLVANIA.

The Pennsylvania Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals.

1627 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia.
COL. M.RICHARDSMUCKLE, M. V. B. DAVIS, Secretary.
President.
The Women’s Pennsylvania Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
. to Animals.
I530 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia.

MRS. R. P. WHITE, President. MRS. BRADBURY BEDELL.
Secretary.

Lancaster County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals.

Lancaster.

D. S. BURSK, President. JOHN L. MARTIN, Secretary.‘

The York County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
York.

CHAS. A. KLINEFELTER, H. W. MCCALL, Secretary.

President.

Western Pennsylvania Humane Society.
440 S irth Avenue, Pittsbiirg.
HON. GEORGE WILSON, Pres. T. M. PORTER, Secretary.

The Chester County Auxiliary of the Women’s Branch of The
Pennsylvania Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
West Chester.

MRS. S. C. MASSEY, President. \VILLIAM S. KIRK, Secretary.

Berks County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
5 36 Penn Street, Reading.
JOSEPH A. ALLGAIER. Sec.

   
    
  
 
   
  
  
    
     
    
   
    
   

 

  

 




 

 

85

Lycoming County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals.

lVill/imnsporz‘.
MRs. C. LA RUE MUNSON, MRS. JAMES P. HERDIC, Sec.
President.

Lackawanna Branch of The Pennsylvania Society for the Preven- ’
tion of Cruelty to Animals.

Scranton.
JOHN M. KEMMERER, Pres. ' MRS. D. B. ATHERTON, Sec.

Northwestern Pennsylvania Humane Society.
Erie.
HON. F. F. ADAMS. President. HON. W. B. FLICKINGER, Sec.

Luzerne County Humane Association for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Children and Animals.

W il/eesbawe.

REY. HORACE E. HAYDEN. . Secretary.
President.

 

The Central Pennsylvania Humane Society.

Altoona.
MRS. ELIZABETH O. STRAT— MISS SIDNEY COLESTOCK,
TAN. President. Secretary.

RHODE ISLAND.

Pennsylvania Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
61 Westminster Street, Providence.
HUN. J. C. B. WOODS. Pres. JOHN W. ANGELL, Secretary.

Newport Branch of The Rhode Island Society for the Prevention
of Cruelty to Animals.
Nervion Building, Newport.

EDWARD R. WHARTO N,
Treasurer.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

86

SOUTH CAROLINA.

The South Carolina Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals.

Charleston.
.J. ALWYN BALL, President. F. F. CHAPEAU, Secretary.

Richland County, South Carolina, Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals.

Columbia.
TILMAN WATSON, President. D. R. FLENNIKEN, Secretary.
The Greenville Branch of The South Carolina Society for the Pre-
vention of Cruelty to Animals.

Greehville.
DR. H. M. PERRY, President. FRANK B. MCBEE, Secretary.

The Spartanburg Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
. Sparta/Iiibm'g.
J. B. LEE, M.D., President. CHARLES H. HENRY, Sec. _

———.._

TENNESSEE.

Tennessee Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals and
Children.

337 Mississippi Avenue, Memphis.
TOM GALE, President. TURNER H. LANE, Act’g Sec.

Chattanooga Humane Society.

Chattanooga.
D. G. CURTIS, M.D., President. H. H. SOUDER, Secretary.

Knox County Humane Society.
Knoxville.
W. L. TRENT, President. REV. W. H. BATES, Secretary.

Nashville Humane Society.
P. O. Box 46, Nashville. '

REV. JAMES I. VANCE. D.D., MAT HOKE, Secretary.
President.

 




 

  

87

The Madison County Humane Society.
Jackson.

REV. M. A. MATTHEWS, Pres. L. R. GRIFFIN, Secretary.

 

TEXAS.
The Galveston Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Galveston.
SEALY HUTCHINGS, Pres. A. B. BLOOD, Secretary.

The Texas Humane Society.
Waco.
ALFRED ABEEL, President. ROBERT J. BROOKS, Sec.

The Austin Humane Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals.

Austin.
MRS. I. H. EVANS, President. J. E. OLDRIGHT, Secretary.
‘ UTAH.
Utah Humane Society.
Salt Lake City.
DR. T. B. BEATTY, President. J. W. GREENMAN, Secretary.
VERMONT.
The Vermont Humane Society.
Chester.
GEO. H. WALDRON, Pres. A. N. CHANDLER, Secretary.

The Brattleborough Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals.

Brattleboroagh.
DR. GEO. F. GALE, President. MRS. MARY C. WARDER, Sec.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

88

Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Rutlatzd.
T. L. DRURY, President. T. L. DRURY, Secretary.

The Vermont Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
B mmgton .
COL. HORACE J. BROOKS, H. P. WHITCOMB, Secretary-
President.
Chester Humane Society.
Chester.
GEO. H._VVALDRON, Pres. MERRILL WRIGHT, See.

The Randolph Humane Society.
I Randolph.
JAMES A.'FOWLER, President. G. W. MORROVV, Secretary.

Manchester Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Manchester.
HON. I. K. SIMONDS, Pres. JESSIE O. HAWLEY, See.

VIRGINIA.
Richmond Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
618 East Ala/£71, Street, Richmond.
IRA MOVVERY, President. E. C. MAYO, Secretary.

Norfolk Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
242 M at]; Street, Norfolk.
L. CLAY KILBY, President. W. B. BARTON, Secretary.

Woman’s Humane Society of Virginia.
Portsmouth.
HERMANN C. NIEMEYER, Miss M. A. BINGLEY. Sec.
President.
The Lynchburg Humane Society.

Lyhehburg.
P. A. KRISE, President. , Secretary.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

90

Kingston Humane Society.
128 Barrie Street, Kingston.
G. J. B. PENSE, President. J. M. COTTLE, Secretary.

The Canadian Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
I89 St. James Street, Montreal.

CHARLES ALEXANDER, GEORGE DURNFORD, Sec.
President.

Ottawa. Humane Society.
83 St. Peter Street, Ottawa.
MRS. GWYNNE, President. MRS. GEO. E. PERLEY, Sec.

Quebec Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Quebec.
JOHN T. ROSS, President. A. ROBERTSON, Secretary.

New Brunswick Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Ferry Building, Water Street, St. John.
JOHN V. ELLIS, M.P., Pres. S. M. WETMORE, Secretary.

Toronto Humane Society.
103 Bay Street, Toronto.
W. R. BROCK, President. - MISS DORA SPEARS, Sec.

Fredericton Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Fredericton.
, President. CHARLES A. SAMPSON, Sec.

 

Monoton Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

M oncton.
GEO. B. WILLETT, President. WILLIAM A. MCDOUGALL,
Secretary.
St. John’s Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
St. Johns, Newfoundland.
SIR WM. V. WHITEWAY, Pres. GEO. M. JOHNSON, Secretary.

 




 

  

9T

The Winnipeg Society for the PreVention of Cruelty to Animals.

Winnipeg, Manitoba.
REV. C. MATLESON, President. MISS M. LANT, Secretary.

Sherbrooke Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Sherbrooke.
WM. FARWELL, President. FRANK THOMPSON, Sec.-

 

SOUTH AMERICA.

Sociedad Argentina Protectora de los Animales.
Calle Paraguay, IO 59, Buenos Ayres, Argentine Republic.

DR. IGNACIO L. ALBARRA- CONRADO HERZFELD, Sec.
C N, President.

Sociedad Protectora de los Animales.
Rosario de Santa Fe, Argentine Republic.

GUILLERMO BARNETT, C. B. WELLEN KEMP, Sec.
' President.

Sociedad Protectora de los Animales.
Mendoza, Argentine Republic.
MANUEL T. CABRAL, Pres. PASCUAL TELLEMUS, Sec.

Sociedad Protectora de los Animales.
Rio de Ianeiro, Brazil.
A. M. N. GONCALVES, Pres. J. ALBINO DA CRUZ, Sec.

Sociedad Protectora de los Animales en Venezuela.

Caracas, Venezuela.

SENORA ADELAIDE DE ALMEIDA E VASCONCELLOS, Presi-
dent and Secretary.

Sociedad Protectora de los Animales de Montevideo.

Montevideo, Uruguay.

JUSTUS CUBILO’, President. LUIS ALBERTO HERRERA,
Secretary.-

 

 

  




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

92

WEST IN DIES.
Trinidad Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Port of Spain, Trinidad.

SIR HUBERT H. E. JEMING- KATHARINE H. BOURNE,
HA , President. Secretary.

BERMUDA.

Bermuda Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Bermuda.
HON. T. N. DILL, President. CLAUDE W. MCCALLAN, Sec.

 




St N 'l l'Z'l‘l l‘ZS (l'l‘l l l‘ll\’ 'l‘l l .\N 'l‘l l( )Sl“. Ol’ N( )R'l‘ll AN 1) S( )( l'l'l‘l ."\l\l l‘llx’ l(.‘z\.

It will be vizitity i115; to the t1iends of our cause to leain from the following list; of kindred societies that the work
of animal protection has extended to almost every part of the world. Many of these societies a1e powerful organ—
izations, whose merciful inﬂuences have been felt abroad as well as at home through the dissemination of humane
literature. The Royal Society at London was the ﬁrst in the world. It was organized in 1824, and now has
branches in every considerable city of England.

 

LOCATION. l NAME OF SOCIETY. PRESIDENT. SECRETARY.

 

 

 

ALGERIA.
Algiers . . . . . . . . of the Dept. of Algiers .Dr. Collardot . . . . . —— Pinguad-
Bona... ..........MissFaure.
Constantine . . . -. . . . . . . . . . .G. C. Zengrel.
Oran . . . . . . . .
Philippeville . . . -. . . . . . . . . . .I. G. Riviere.

AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide. . . . .; . . .. . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . .A. Abrahams.
Brisbane . . . .l . . . . . . . D. Denham . . . . . . Richard F. Woodcraft.
Melbourne . . . . Victorian S. Prot. A. . . . .Lord Brassey. . . . . . Thomas Latham.
Sydney . . . . . Animal P. S. N. S. W. . . . .John de V. Lamb . . . . F. Montague Rothery.

AUSTRIA—HUNGARY.
Agram . . . . . S. Prot. A. at Agram . . . . .Josip Muzler . . . . . Josip Medved.
Budapest . . . . S. P. A. . . . . . . Dr. Charles Verédy . . . Prof. Chas. Monostori.
Carinthia . . . . S P. A. of Carinthia . . . . . F. F Oertl . . . . . Lorenz Washietl.
Czernowitz . . . .lS. P. A. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . L. L. Strzalkowski.
Graz . . . . .lStyrian S. P. C. A. . . . . .Baron von Mensshengen . Karl Berger.
Innsbruck . . . . Tirolian S. P. A. . . . . . . Johann Tschugmell . . . Amadeus Simath.
Karlstadt . . . . S. P. A. . . . . . . . .Julia Ivancic . . . . . . Josip Absatz.
Kaschau . . . . S. P. A. . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . Adalb Pater.
Klagenfurt . . . . S. P. A. for Karnteri . . . . . Franz Jos. Oertl . . . . Alfred Kohlert.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

AUSTRIA-HUNGARY,C’d
Krakau . .
Leitmeritz
Lemberg-

Linz .
Mahr Ostrau

- Prague ,

Przemysl
Rzeszow
Temesvar
Trieste

Vienna

Zagreb
Zara

BELGIUM.
Antwerp
Brussels
Ghent
Liege
Louvain
Malines
Namur
Verviers

DENMARK.
Copenhagen

EGYPT.
Alexandria .
Calro

 

,

s.
s.
s.
L
s.
.S

' z
s.
R
s.
s

S
l.
s.
D

- Antwerp S Prot. of A.

 

.CairoS.P.C.A.... l“ “ “

 

, A, , Dr. Joseph von Kopff . Bronislaus Gustawicz.
, Eduard Schmiedt.

II I I I . I I I I ”FeliksIde PtavIvicIPtIavvicRi . Dr. Jozef Limbach.

U<1<1

1244
U)

A. . Sylvester Pelschimoosky . Ossokar Beer.
. Florian Gartner. Richard Hartman’n.

. Josef Hudl.

. Joh. Haralewicz.

i

n
S

L)
040-104 ND—i

for the Kingdoni of P
en . . . . .

B ranch Galician S. P. C. A.
. . .D. M. Parlagi Marton
. Com. Luca Pellegrini

Richard Tunkler

. Prof. E. Kamenar .
. G. Testa

<38

Mathias Novotny
. Hubert von Freyberger .

B

Us:
94:0

<3:

26

. Graef Janos.
. Ant. Gianelli.

. E. Alex. Sturm.

. Drag. Leskovac.
. Charles Inghini.

<<i
0-1 "Jo—10493

Vie enna S. P. C. A. and seven?
branches. . . . . . .5
P. C. A. .

almatian S. P. A.

. . Julien Koch . . .
Royal S. Prot. of A. of Brussels . Alphonse Solvyns .
S. P. A..

. Adolphe van den Bosch.
. Alban Roels.

. H. Louveigne.

. ——-— Fécher.

. E. van den Eynde.

. Leon Diercxnes.

. Emile Dupont.

Jules Ruhl.

 

IlAlphonse Gulikers
.[Victor Hénot .
J Mastboom .
.iBaron Fallon

erviers S. for Suppress’ nofC. to A. :Jules Ruhl

S.
S.
S.
S.
V
SDenmark S. P. C. A. and six?

( branches . . . . 5 -P- Jorgensen.

l
1
EF Chr.Len1bcke
l

Alexandria S. P. C. A. . A. von Dumreicher.

.J. C. T. Vaughan.

abri Pacha

 




 

6

l‘:;\'(;l'.:\N1).
London

FRANCE.
Biarritz
Cannes
Dunkirk
Havre
Lyons
Marseilles
Mentone
)lonaco
Nice
Paris
Pau
Rouen

GERMANY.
Aachen
Altona . .

Aschaffenhurg; .

Augsburg
Baden—Baden
Bautzen
Bayreuth
Berlin
Bernstadt
Bonn
Bremen
Breslau
Bromberg
Brunswick
Cassel . .

 

E
E
mmmmmmmmmmmmm¢m

~1 lxoyal‘b
( throughout E110121nd]

S. P..A .
S. P..A ofCannes

. Dunkirk S. P. C. A.

Havre S. Prot. A.
S. Prot. A. of Lyons
S. P. C. A

.S. P. C. A. of Mentone
. S. P A

. S. Prot. A. .

. S. Prot. of A. .

. S. Prot. A. at P2111

S. P. C. A.

C. A. .
A. and Birtls

. A. and B.

at .Baut-zen.
[A
"A

.U
13.;
<d<ﬁéuj<vio<d<d<du
mmmmmmm'

O

.044
.3: . . . .
£11 :040-19-10-10;

.A. of Cassel

.l’. C. -.\ [and DI‘TZIIILllLS A

C. A. of Ascliatfeiibi11‘0'

o

o

[L R. H. Duke of York

E. Ardoin. .
M. S. Marrauld.
Auguste Vesson
A. Jarnet

. Louis Pugin .

Peletier cle Noirlieu

. Dr. Gent

Mrs. S. H. .Adlam .

. Sir James Harris
.A. Uhrich

Dr. H Draper Speakinan

. Henry Paris .

. Baron von Coels

. Dr. Greve . .

. F. H.De11bler.

. Iacobus Reimers

.Maj —Gen. D. yon Parseval.
. H. \Vetzlich.

.—— Preu .

. General Koring.

-—— Giille.

. —— Bongartz

Ad. Brinkman

. Dr. Ulrich .

Nolte

 

. B. Schwarzenberg

 

Rev. Carl Wilhelm-Peter

 

. Josepli
. Gaston Hamel.

.3Dr.
.AV. Sosna.
.‘—— SWeiss.
.ARey. Sa'uberlich.
.AW. Koch.

. Martin Betting.

. john Colam.

. M. Vail.

. Ch. Rocoffort.

. Emile Pouleur.

. G. Serrurier.

. Charles Lebrun.

. Mr. Charles.

. Miss Mary F. Sourin.

Capt. Polli.

. L. J. Jerome.

Albert Cantaucl.
Sabatier.

95

. J. Bernarts, Jr.
. —-— Trenkner.

. Ch r.

Flemer.
——-— Weinig.

. Heinr. Heuschmann.
. Major VVagener.

 

qKorten

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

GERMANY—Continued.
Celle . . .
Chemnitz

Coburg

Cologne
Constance
Crefeld
Crimmitzschau
Dantzig .
' Darmstadt
Dortmund
Dresden
Duisburg
Dusseldorf
Elberfeld
Elbing
Elmshorn

Essen .

Flensberg
Freiberg .
Frankfort- on— Main
Frankfort- on—Oder
Friederichstadt .
Gelsenkirchen
Glogau . .
Gorlitz . . .
Gotha . . .
Greifenberg
Greifswald .
Giistrow

Hallc

DaD-iﬂ-iﬂaD-iD-iD-qQ-lﬂ-iD-i :D-iD-q
mmW~mwmmmwMMmmUmm

<
mmw~p

mmwm

mmmmmé

5
5
5
5
5

 

Flip-+6

253-1

<U<<o<<<<o<u

S. P. A. for the town and envi- 5

Hum
0Duchy of Coburg . .

o

mummmmmm§mm-

..A of Celle . . . .

A. . .
al and Plant P. S. of the 55
weSI’.A. '

.of Constance . . .
..A of the Lower Rhine

..<

rthalerS. P. C. A
.A. andB

ronments of Essen . . .55

..C A. .
of Freiberg

.A.
.A.
..C A. . . . . . . .
..C A. .
..C A.i 1n Gelsenkirchen .
A.

A.

of Gorlitz .
of the Dutchy of Gotha

.A.

..A .
ral Baltic Ass’ 11 Prot. A. .
t.r.C A. in Giistrow . . .
..C A of Halle . . . .

.S‘

.5Dr. Schreckenberger
5Dr. Schwarze . .

Max Brodfiihrer .

.5Dr. Otto Hartmann
.5—— Rothenhaiisler
Dr Ferd. Busch .

.5——— Reichardt
, Dr.
.5Dr. Eisenhuth .

Borntraeger

5H. Werneke . .
'.Dr F. Schurrig
A. Van Meetereu.

.’ Georg Gundelach
.5 Heinrich Espenschied

1—— Staberow .
M. W. Reinhardt

5 Prof. Dr. Meyer

.5.A F. ]. Eiler .
.5]udge Vehse . .
Dr. Carl Schenck
Schumann .
W. Pollitz . .

5

. Dr. ‘Griittner . .
. —— Richter.

. Major Rudolf von Schollen.
. C. Angermeyer .

. Rev. Mr. Rittner.
. -—— von Wolffrath
. Dr. Fritzsche.

. Dr. Tramhaijn .

 

 

Rev. K. Gartner.
Rudolph Hartmann.

Adam Bruckner.

. Dr. V. Wiedmann.

Franz Walter.

. Aug. Herzog.

. Rich. Rietzch.

. Alexander Goll.
. Dr. Lennert.

. Fr.
. Dr. Emil Doring.

Strunck.

. Carl Grundmann.

. Nicholaus Metzroth.
. —— Staberow.

. —— Engel.

Prof. Dr. Meyer.

. A. ]orgensen.

Wolf.

. Alfred Geiger.

. Rev. Mr. Bieder.
. ]. Sieden.

. —— Oberwinter.
. G. Volckman.

. —— ]ahnke.

. Mauermeister Hensel.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

GERMANY—Continued.
Nordlingen
Nuremberg
Offenbach
Offenburg
Oldenburg
Osnabruck
Passau
Pforzheim
Pirna
Ploen
Posen .
Remscheid
Regensburg
Ribnitz
Rostock
Saalfeld
Schleswig
Schwerin
Sensburg
S-iegen
Solingen
Stargard
Stettin .
Strassburg i. E.
Straubing
Strehlen
Striegan
Stuttgart
Warstein
Wiesbaden
Wiirzburg

Wupperthal

. . . Heinrich Hermann . . . J. Kellermann.
.A. in Nuremberg . . . Gottlieb Held . . . . . Francis Monniger.
. Dr. Volckmar . . . . Ernst Renk.

. Prof. Franz Dosch.
Wilh. Kahtmann . . . . Dr. Mannheimer.

. . . . . . . . . . —— Hupeden . . . . . F. Scheidemann.
.of Passau . . . . . . Adolf Leeb . . . . . . Joseph Alteneder.

. . . . . . . . .—-— Pﬁsterer . . . . .—-— Berner.

of Pirna . . . . . Julius Lutsche . . . . . Sontag-Conrector.

. H. Foerster . . . . . . O. Kaven.

. Rudolf Schulz . . . . . Ed. Reissmuller.

. . . . . . . . . . Gottl. Arns . . . . . . —— Paffrath.

A. and B. . . . . . . L. E. Meyer . . . . . . A. Geitner.

A. in Ribnitz . . . . Ludwig Dolberg . . . . H. VVilken.

of Rostock . . . . Ferd. Matz- . . . . . . Heinrich Teutmann.
_ . Dr. Mauer.
of Schleswig. . . . Dr. T. S-teen . . . . . Dr. T. Steen.

, Rev. Mr. Fldrcke . . . . Moller.

. ....———Dorn.

and A. . . . . . . Rud. Hocli . . . . . . Dr. Hermann Bellebaum.
Prof. Schirlitz . . . . . Reinhardt.

C. Hartmann. . . . . Rev. Mr. Schwarze.
Rev. Ed. Schneider . . . Rev. Ed. Schneider.
—— Steinwender . . . . Kertzer.

A. Egglhuber . . . . . G. Dechner.

Otto Ulm .. . . . . . . Rev. A. Bojanowski.

. . . . . . . . . August Friedrich . . . .— Schikor.

in Wiirtemberg . . Count von Zeppelin . . . —— Seybold.

. . . . . . . . .———— Kropz . . .— Wiesmeyer.

. of Wiesbaden . . . Count A. von Bothmer . . Count A. von Bothmer.
Dr. Bauerlein . . . . . Mr. Eichelsbacher.

H. Espenschied. .. . . Ferd. Schumacher.

4 4

m

3-1

40444444o444ooo4o443444444404044

.4 .<

 

 

 

mammmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm

 




(l 1911 11.:\.\'\'~—C'u;zlz'lz116d.

Zabern
Zittau
Ziirich
Zwickau

1)

P.
P.
P.

C. A. of Zabcru

A.
C.

A.

Dr. Pcllzcr
, ~— Thicmcr .
, P. H. Wolff
, Captain Reich.

A. of Ziirich .

. B. M.

Goettgeus.
Pcschel.

. H. Fischer-Sigwart.

HOLLAND.
Alkmaar
Amsterdam
Arnheim
Baarn
Brada .
Dordrecht
Haarlem
Hague, The
Hertogenbosch .
Hook of Holland
\Iaastricht
Rotterdam
L'trecht

m
LLLEW

gmmmmmmé

, K. A. Cohen Stuart
. B. J. Polenaar

. Baron H. A. Elias .
. J. P. Hooft

A. P. Sheltus

H. H. T11. Hoyer
A. von der Voort
R. A. Klerck

F. X. Verheijen
P. Dregmans

P. H. H. Routs

. M. Mees

. J. Meyers

C. J. Reiziger.

. C. F. J. Hanedves.
M. F. W. Van Dulm.

. J. C. van der Veen.

. — Van Vooren.

S. Schotel.

. A. Beernink.

. L. V. van Rossern.

. L. G. P. Max.

. J. C. Jansen.

. K. Vonk.

D. van Stolk.

. Van der Lip.

<1
.Q-i
4/)
<§

O

C. A. of Arnheini

:of: Dbrdrel‘ht

444448

I:

g D1v .

H—t

99

ands S. P A.

4454
Q.)

4444
mAmmmm4mmzm

INDIA.
Ahmedabad
Bangalore
Bombay
Calcutta
Howrah .
Kandy (Ceylon).

Kurrachee . . . . . . . . . . .
Madras Madras S. P. C A . . Rt. Rev. F. Gell, D.D.
/. l S. for Prot. of A. fiom Vivi- ?_ -

Madras ' ' ' ' ' 1 section and Cruel Tieatment \. \‘I' K' Chette

,SPJA
1

 

. Manibkai.
. Gen. J. F. Fischer.
. M. Shroff.
G. W. Lees.
R.. A. Donnithorne.
. W. Goonetilleke.
\I‘ffrajor Merewether, R.E.
. D. A. McCready.

. V. Ranganatham Nayudu.
Rev. J. McGuire.

S. P. A.

S. P. A

The Bombay S. P. C A
Calcutta S. P. C. A.
Howrah S. P. C. .

S. P A

S. P. A.

. Col. D Robertson.

. Hon. Justice Fulton .
Hon. W. H. Grimley, C.S.
F. \V. Duke, I...CS

 

 

Mandalay

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

INDIA—Continued.
Rangoon (Burma)
Slngapore

IRELAND.
Belfast
Cork . .
Dublin
Kilkenny .
Waterford .

Wexford .

ITALY.
Bologna .
Florence
Genoa . .
Girgenti (Sicily) .
Magenta
Milan
Naples
Naples
Padua
Palermo
Rome
San Remo
Turin . .

MALTA.

MADEIRA.
Funchal

NEW ZEALAND.
Christchurch
Dunedin
Wellington

I

 

 

S. P. A. .
S. P. C.
The Ulster S. P. C. A.

Cork S. P. C. A. .
Dublin S. P. C. A.

.S.P..A

Waterford S. P. C. A

. County Wexford S. P. C. A.

.The Emiliana S. of Zoophily

S. Prot. ofA. of Florence
S. P. A.

is. P. A
. gThe Lombardy Ass 11 of ZoophilyI G Bellini

Naples S. P. A. .
Neapolitan S. of Z.
S. P. A.

S. Prot. A. of San Remo
Turin S. P. A.

S. P. A.

.IFunchal S. P. A.

S...PA .
0tago..SPCA

..fs.P.A.. . . . I ..'

 

 

: S. for Humane Education and P. A. J I S Whitaker
. ‘Roman S. against C. to A. .

.IAlexander McOstrich, J.P.

‘II Fitzgerald . . . .I

:I,

Rt Rev. J M. Strachan, M. D. F. McCarthy.

I
I
.I . . . St. Vincent Down.

.ISir Wm. Q. Ewart, Bart. . W. H. Patterson.
John C. Newsom.
George Ryall.

. Thomas Kough.
Hon Dudley F. Fortesque Robert McCurdy.

IIRt. Hon. Lord Maurice I Thomas Harpur.

IRt. Hon. Lord Ardilaun

 

.IAngela Diana Costelli .IT. L. Buswell. . .
.IGen. Giuseppe Mell1n1.
0tto Penzig

. Bartolomeo Lagunima.

I

. Prof. Giulio Cantu.

. Leonard T. Hawksley.
Dr. Adolfo Giordano.

. Cav. Tullio Nob. Abriani.
Vittorio Spataro.

. T. Serras.

O. Piccone.

Franco Riccabone.

.IPrincess Mele Barese
.‘Pr.of A. Costa
Carlo Maluta

Prince A. Doria Pamphili
.IMichael C. Foster .

'ICesare Durando
I
.IJ. V Damaisio Ribeiro.
I
. M. Murph.

. E. E. C. Quick.

. Justice Williams
Jas. S. Jameson.

IWm. Watson . . .

 

 




NORWAY
Arendal
Bergen
Christiania
Christiansand
Drammen
Ibbestad
Kongsvinger
Mosjoen .
Stavanger

-
——1‘

A. in Clu'istiania

Lu

.-.-.-._. Holpeldt

,l Schmidt
. Georg S-Verdrup
. Hans Johnsen.

. And. Larssen

P. A. B. Opsion.
—— Prydtz.

O. Hals

E. Ronneberg

. A. Sporck .

. H. chlaml.
. E. Olsen.

. Oscar Nickelscn.

. Miss L. Harig.

. O. Hals.
. Kund Kloster.
. B. Thomassen.

Trondhjern
Voss

PORTUGAL.
Lisbon
Lisbon

. Oporto

<<g<<<<<<<<

‘mmmmmmmmmm

. Ivar Hesselberg.
[Heitor.
. Joaquim Carlos da Silva

. Alfredo Henrique da Silva.
- J. Costa, Jr.

. P. A. of Lisbon . . . Julio d’Andrade
. S P. Domestic Animalsof Portugal Concle de Sainodacs
. Count de Moser

U3

 

RUSSIA.
Abo (Finland)

Archangel
Astrakhan

. M. Makaroff.
Lieut.~Gen. Hasenkamf . M, Qui.
N. M. Kossowsky . A. 'Wilensky.

‘P. Shitkoff . . . . . . N. T. Lewitzky.
. .iBar. vonder Osten Driesen. A, K, Kulikowsky,
Elgaesgiigléugg geiion Of The .i 1Baron von Taube . K. N. Dementjeﬁ.

‘ ' ' JD. N. Batinschnoff .z. W. Wolkowitsky.

.P C A. . . . . l
alish Sec. of The RussianSPA P. P. Manassein

Etchangel Section W. W. Guweliakin

Russian S. P. . .
Astrakhan Section
Russian S. P. A.
Berdichev Section
Russian S. P. A. .
Czernigow Section
Russian S. P. A.

Berdichev

 

Czernigow
Dwiasa . . .
Ekaterinburg . .

Grodna .
Helsingfors(Finland)

Kalish . . . . . VVladislaw Hmielewsky.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

RUSSIA—Continued.

Kaluga
Kamenetz

Kazan
Kiev
Kovno

Krementchoug
Kursk
Lodz

Mariopol

Melitopol

Menselinsk
Minsk

Moscow

Narva .
Nowoselitzi
Nowotchorkask
Odessa

Omsk

Oofa

Orel

Riga
Simferopol

St. Petersburg .

Stavropol

Thuemen (Siberia)

. Kaluga Sec.of The Russian S.P.A.

I Kovno Sec. of The Russian S.P.A.

. P
. Moscow Sec. of The RussianS. P.
. Narva Sec. of The Russian S. P
P
P.
P.

D. Eon Sec: oi TiheiRussian. S.

. Taurida Sec. of The RussianS P. A.
. The Russian S. Prot. A. .

 

S. Kukarin
T. K. Michalewicz .

T. N. Lange. . . .
O. O.‘ Eichelmann .
h S h 2 COL-Maj. A. Daronoff .
5Krementc oug ection of T e -

Kursk Sec. of The Russian S. P. A. M. W'. Zarin .

5 LoSdz PS.eciAlon. of The IRussian; T. Peiser
_5 Mariopol Section of The Rus— I.
( sian S. P. A. . .5
.5 Melitopol Section of The i
( Russian S. P. A. . .5

5 Kamenetz Section of The{
1 Russian S. P A. . . .5
Kazan Sec. of The Russian S. P. A.
Kiev Sec. of The Russian S. P. A.

W. Stankewicz

M. Maximoff

————— Ostankoff.
Minsk Sec of The Russian S A —— Onatzewitch
A Count Keller
A. F. Pawlowski
A. T. Koreischa .
A Mai—Gen. Grekoff.
A.
A.

Odessa S. Prot. A. . W. A. Orloff
Omsk Sec. of The Russian S. F. Sendczikowsky
Oofa Sec. of The Russian S. P. E. Kindiakoff
Orel Sec. of The Russian S. P. A. . . . . -. .
Livland S. P. A. M. Werbatus

E. Kessler .

. . .Gen. —Maj. P. P. Lonskoi
_5 Stavropol Section of The]_
( Russian S. P. A. . . A' 5' Klutchareff
5Theumen Section of

( Russian S. P. A. . .

 

—-— Shishkowsky.

- 5
The i
5

. M. W. Micheeff.

F. K. Czerwinsky.

. T. Goomelewsky.
. W. Tynatowitch.
. ———-— Lindenbaum.

. I. B. Orenstein.
. W. P. Kartoscheff.

. Tul. Poniianowsky.
. D. Charadshieff.

. —— Chludzinsky.

. —— Ossowsky.

. —— Korotnioff.

. Julius Selten.

.T. A. Schawursky.

. —— Turmoresoff.

A. T. Odolski.

. — Solovieff.

. —— Jolianowsky.

. Tereletzky Klimowitch.
. F. W. Deringer.

. —— Kazcouchoff.

. Col. P. P. Joukowsky.

. A. T. Taroshenko

 

 




1\’1'ss1 \ 11111111111111.
111115 . .
Tsubol 1\' (Siluli' ll
1111a
U111a11

Vilna

Voronezh
\Varsaw .
\Vischny Wolotschck

Zytomir

SCOTLAND.
-Aberdeen
Arbroath
Ayr
Dundee
Dunferniline
Edinburgh
Forfar

Glasgow

Inverness
Perth
Tavistock

SOUTH AFRICA.

Barberton (S. A. R.)

Cape Town .
Durban (Natal)

East London

.1 1111a S. P.

.-\.
.~\.

1’1‘111'.
S. 1’.
A.

Uman Sec. of 1110 Russiaii S. P. A.

'l‘illis S.

'1‘1111111sli

: Vilna Sec. of The Russian S. P. A.

sVoronezh Section of The l_
1 Russian S. P. A.

. Warsaw Sec. of The RussianS. P A.

. Zytomir Sec.ofThe R11ssianS.P.A.

Aberdeen Ass’n P C. A.

S. P. A.
S. P. A.
S. P. A.
Scottish S. P. C. A.

‘1, Glasgow and West of Scot-
1 land S. P. C. A. .
Inverness S. P. C. A.

S. P. A.

S. P. A.

 

G odHopeS P. CA

S.
Cap
S.
S

1
1
1
1

'1 1" Zeitlin

Arbroath Branch ScottishS. P. C A.

1\' 111111111-
K1110sclif

S. .\.
1..1\[.

D. Levandoff. .
Maj. ~.Gen O. K. Sliarsky

A. A. Isaeff

BaronI. Bruning .
5N. \V. Essenowsky To— 1

( bolkin . .
Baron de Chaudoire.

. Lord Provost of Aberdeen .
. Webster & Littlejohn.

Henry Corstorphine .

. TheLordProvost of Edin’gh

. W. C. Jackson

 

TheLordProvostof Glasgow
. Rev. 1. 1. Black

1. M. Pan/11111“.
N. \Volol‘f.
K. S. Twanoff.

. —-—— Smolitch.

A. Rymschewiz.
K. W. KonieWsky.

. —— Golowatchewsky.

A. E. Sipatlo.

Alex. J. R. Thain.

Archibald Langwill, C.A.

Henry F. Lowndes.

. Robert Davidson.

... . . . . . . . .W.Prosser.
. Hon.SirRic’rdSouthey,K.C.
. His Exc. Sir Walter Hely
[Hutchinson 1

\V. Pavel.
C. H. Knowler.

 

'1E' H. Crouch.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Johannesburg
(S. A. R.)
Pietermaritzburg I.

SOUTH AFRICA—Cont ’dI

SPAIN.
BarCelona .

Cadiz .
Gibraltar
Madrid
Malaga
Seville

SWEDEN.

Alingsas

Borgholm

Eksjo

Falun . .

Goteborg

Grebbestad

Kalmar

Karlshamn

Karlskrona .

Karlstad

Linkoping

Lulea

Lund

Lund .

Lyckeby

Marieped . . . . .
Morsﬂ . . . .IMdrsilS. P. A. .
Nettraby Nettraby S. P. A.

 

 

mall Birds

. Salvador Badia y Andren

”cameo?“

<d<éo

. Rev. H. Bergst1om
. A. P. Gustafsson
. Gustof Erikson .
. N. J. Mellander .

ILionel Phillips . . . . .

IHis Exc. Sir Walter Hely
I [Hutchinson

:I:

I
.IJ. Garcia de Toledo.

.Kylander

.J. Hellgren
..Aug Pettersson
.E. von Odreich.
.Rubenson

.J. Molin
Hellner

tto Berg

.E. Axelson .
ishop C. H. Rundgren
r. A. Sterner .
Rev 0. A. Wester.
.I.P1‘Of S. L. Torngvist.
ik Krebs

w€533,549 W

Rev. W. Ed. Kelly.
F. J. Dickson.

. Francisco de Maymo y L10-

[part

 

 

. —— Romualdo.

. Arthur Hasluck.
.IR. de Bustamente.

. Albert Michelsen.
. J. Wilner.
. Edward Petri.

E. Hedblom.
C. J. Gardell.

. A. Alstrorn.

. H. Bohman.

. Erik Leth.

. J. J. Blomberg.

. K. B. J. Forsell.

. G. A. Wallen.

. K. Hallman.

. N. Lundahl.

. Aurore Ytterstrom.
. H. Stalfors.

. Carl Hammarqvist.

. N. Otto Lindstrom.

 

Ivar Espelund.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SWITZERLAND—Cont’d
St. Gall . . . ..C A.
Toggenburg . . C. A. of Toggenburg . .1].Edelmann . . . . . .H. Torgler.
Thun . . . . . . . A. . . . . . . . .-A. Knechtenhofer . . .F. Brandt.
A

in St. Gall . . . .IC. Tuppinger . . . . .T. Edelmann.

Vevey . . . . . . . .E. Favez.
Zurich . .H. Wolff . . . . . . .G.Suter.

TASMANIA.

Hobart . . . . Southern Tasmanian S. P. A. R. G. Hamilton. . . . .Miss M. S. Gellibrand.
Launceston . . . . Northern Tasmanian S. P. A. 'I' . . . .Mrs. P. O. Fysh.

TURKEY.

Candia (Crete) . . S. P. C. A. . . . . . . . .iM. E. von Schwartz.

 

 




   

 

AGENTS.

In addition to the uniformed force attached to Headquarters
and the Brooklyn Ofﬁce, the Society is represented throughout
the State of New York by the following Agents:

ALLEGANY COUNTY.

BENJAMIN, R, W ....................................... Rushford
HARRIS (M.D.), WILLIAM H ........................ Canaseraga
IVIUNN, JAMES E ......................................... Oramel
WILLIAMS, HORACE H .............................. Friendship

BROOME COUNTY.
W'ILSON, JOHN M ....................................... Deposit

CATTARAUGUS' COUNTY.

COTTON, CHARLES ....................................... Olean
GAYLORD, WALTER R ............................. Franklinville
HUNTLEY, JASON T ................................... Randolph

CHAUTAUQUA COUNTY;
JENKS, A. FRANK .................................... Jamestown

CHENANGO COUNTY.

BRIGGS, WILLIAM P ..................................... Smyrna
BROOKS, CHAUNCEY D .............................. Sherburne
WILLIAMS (M.D.), GEORGE O --------------------------- Greene

CLINTON COUNTY.
BIOORE, JOHN N ..................................... Champlain

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

108

COLUMBIA COUNTY.

GANTLEY,‘ THOMAS H .................................. Hudson
STOTT, FREDERICK DU BOIS ------------------------ Stottville
WHITBECK, CORNELIUS ............................. Craryville

DELAWARE COUNTY.

HALSTEAD, GEORGE. ................................. Stamford
KAUFMAN, C, C .................................... Margaretville
VAN TASSLE, ALTON L ............................... Treadwell

DUTCHESS COUNTY.

CRUSE (M.D.), THOMAS K .................... Wappinger’s Falls
MOITH, THEODORE .................................... Fishkill

ESSEX COUNTY.

JOHNSON, WARREN ............................... Ticonderoga
STANTON, JOHN W ............................... Elizabethtown

FRANKLIN COUNTY.
BALLARD, JAY O ......................................... Malone
DONOHOE, M. C .......................................... Malone

FULTON COUNTY.
DAY, JULIUS B .......................................... Mayﬁeld
LENTZ, WILLIAM ..................................... Johnstown
ROOT, ERASTUS ..................................... Gloversville
ROSSELLE, J. J ................. . ..................... Gloversville

v

GENESEE COUNTY.

HOUSTON, FRANKLIN ......................... ' ......... Le Roy
MCNISH, JOHN ................................ , ........... Batavia
ROGERS, JOHN L ...................................... Pembroke

GREENE COUNTY.

DECKER, ROSCOE .................................... Prattsville
HORTON, .I. BRADLEY ................................... Athens
MOON, WILLIAM H ................................... Windham
REILLY, JOSEPH ........................................ Catskill
RILEY, WILLIAM T ................................... Lexington
WILLARD (M.D.), CHARLES E ........ ‘ .................. C atskill

 




 

 

  

109

HERKIMER COUNTY.

ATKINS, CHAS. H ...................................... Herkimer
BHLRGY, WARNER ......... _ ............ _ ................. Frankfort
HPxLL, H. CLAY ....................................... Little Falls
SPOFFORD, JULIAN C ................................ Dolgeville

JEFFERSON COUNTY.
XVARD, PETER A ...................................... Watertown

LEWIS COUNTY.
DRYDEN, JOHN D ................................... Copenhagen

LIVINGSTON COUNTY.

HILL, HARLIN H ............................. ' ........... Portage
KILLIP, W. W ............................................ Geneseo
SHULTS, WARREN D ............................. Mount Morris

MADISON COUNTY.

BARLOW, C. F .......................................... Canastota
BRYANT, HAROLD ................................... Brookﬁeld
DE GROODT, FRED. E ............................ Pratt’s Hollow
LIPPITT, F, B ............................................ Madison
LOCKMAN, A ........................................... Cazenovia
PERRY (M.D.), C. H ...................................... Oneida
TEALE, B. S ............................................... Oneida
VVARREN, JOB A ....................................... De Ruyter
\VEST, ADDISON J ..................................... Hamilton

MONTGOMERY COUNTY.

DE FOREST, DAVID ................................. Amsterdam
EgATON, ALFRED G .................................. Amsterdam
FOX, BROWNELL C ................................. Canajoharie
)‘IERENESS, CHARLES W ............................. Fort Plain

NASSAU COUNTY.

CLOWES, LEWIS H ................................... Hempstead
COMES, OSCAR ......................................... Lawrence
CORT, THOMAS HENRY ............................. Cedarhurst
DUNBAR, JOHN J ....................................... Freeport

FLOYD-JONES, G. STANTON ....................... Massapequa

 

 

  

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

IIO

MANN, JR, JACOB ..................................... Hicksvine
MERRITT, DAVID H ..................................... Inwood
VAN WAGNER, WILLIAM ......................... Locust Valley
VAN WAGNER, GEO, E ............................ Locust Valley

NIAGARA COUNTY.
POMEROY, D, N ........................................ Loekport

ONEIDA COUNTY.

BISSELL, ELLISON A ................................. Waterville
JONES (M.D.), T. Z ......... - ............................ Waterville
LEWIS, VV. D ................................................ Utica
ROBERTS (M.D.), DAVID HENRY ........................ Utica

ONONDAGA COUNTY.
OTIS, ISAAC C ............................................ Jordan

ONTARIO COUNTY.
ROGERS, FRANCIS A .................................... Geneva

ORANGE COUNTY.

EGBERT, REV. GEO. D ................................. Cornwall
MILLS, JAMES J ...................................... Port Jervis
NANNY, HARRISON W .................................. Goshen
WILLIAMS, NATHANIEL II .......................... Ridgebury

. ORLEANS COUNTY. __
LYON, HENRY B ......................................... Albion

OSWEGO COUNTY.

NEWMAN, E, G ................................... North Hannibal
PENFIELD, W, H ......................................... Mexico

OTSEGO COUNTY.

CRAMER, ALMOND ............................... Cherry Valley
HOWE, JESSE E ......................................... Oneonta
JOHNSON, HOWARD R... .............................. Oneonta
PLATT, CHARLES M ...................................... IVIorris
SITTS, JOHN H. . . . . . .; .......................... Richﬁeld Springs

 




III

PUTNAM COUNTY.
BENNETT, WALTER J .................................. Mahopac

QUEENS COUNTY.

BAILEY, GEORGE M ................................. Little Neck
BUSCH, ADAM ....................................... Woodhaven
DUSIN G, WILLIAM ....................... 231 Ninth Ave., Astoria
POST, JR., JAMES B ................................ Richmond Hill
\VAGNER, MARTIN .................................... Woodside
WALKER, DEXTER H ........... ~ ........................ J amaica

RICHMOND COUNTY.

ELLIOTT, GEORGE ............................... New Brighton
BIATHESON, JAMES C .............................. Green Ridge

 

s'r. LAWRENCE COUNTY.
VVRIGHT, D, V ........................................ Ogdensburg

SARATOGA COUNTY.

KAVANAUGH, F. W ................................... Waterford
RICE, GEORGE A .................................. Mechanicsville
SELDEN, EDWARD D .......................... Saratoga Springs
VVOODWORTH, H, J ............................... Mechanicsville

SCHENECTADY COUNTY.
HOAG, C. E .......................................... Quaker Street

SCHOHARIE COUNTY.

PLAN K, OLIVER F .................................... Gallupville
REED, H. LOUIE .......................................... Gilboa

 

SCHUYLER COUNTY.
WAIT, WILLIAM HENRY ....................... . ...... Watkins

SENECA COUNTY.

KNIGHT, LEWIS J ........................................ Farmer
7

I‘Hm‘r‘

W“

 

mi,

|
J

\
‘
‘
;

   




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

STEUBEN COUNTY.

BURKE, THOMAS W .................................... Addison
GEER, FRANK L .................................... {{ornellsyille
LAIN, CORNELIUS H ................................... Canisteo
LANE (M.D.), GEO, W ................................... Corning
PHILLIPS (M.D.), CHARLES R .................... Hornellsville
THORNE (M.D.), VAN BUREN ........................ Woodhull
WILKES, ROBERT B ....................................... Bath

SUFFOLK COUNTY.

ANDERSON, THOMAS S. W ------------------------ Stony Brook
BALCHEN, OSCAR L .................................... Babylon
BRUSH, BENJAMIN F ----------------------- Cold Spring Harbor
CALL, FRANK H ....................................... Bay Shore
CAMPBELL, A, H ..................................... Huntington
GILDERSLEEVE, SELAH P ............................. Elwood
HOMAN, C. E, C ................................... East Hampton
HOWELL, WILLIAM M: ................................. Setauket
IVIORISON, GEORGE W ............................ Ronkonkolna
MULFORD, HENRY D ................................ Northport
OVERTON (M.D.), FRANK ............................ Patchogue
POST, REGIS H .......................................... Bayport
REEVES, DETIVIOLD ................................... Greenport
ROGERS, JOHN F ................................... Southampton
SAVAGE (M.D.), WILLIAM B .......................... East Islip
SIIWONS, FRANCIS W .............................. Shelter Island
SMITH, CHARLES F .................................. Cutchogue
SMITH, CHARLES L ................................... Northport
STRONG, JAIWES S ..................................... Wainscott
SUYDAM, WALTER L ................................. Blue Point
VAIL, ALFRED R ....................................... Southold
WELLS, GEORGE B ............................... Baiting Hollow
W'IGGINS, JR., DAVID B .............................. Sag Harbor

SULLIVAN COUNTY.

CREVELING, REV, P, C ................................... Liberty
DECKER, A. A ..................................... Mountain Dale
GRANT, EDWARD W ..................................... Liberty

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

114

GARNJOST, FERDINAND .............................. Yonkers
HARRISON, WALTER S ............ - .................. Pelhamville
HART, FRED. R ........................................ Mt. Kisco
HUSS, HENRY ........................................ Mt. Vernon
JOHNSON, P, D ....................................... Mt, Vernon
JONES, JOHN P ...................................... Port Chester
KONRAD, AUGUSTUS ................................ Tarrytown
KOPP, GEORGE M ..................................... Sing Sing
MAHQNEY, JOHN H ........................... .North Tarrytown
PAGE, ALBERT W ..................................... Chappaqua
SCHENCK, CHAS. STEWART ............................... Rye
SHAY, JOHN ........................... . ............ White Plains
SLOCUM, WILLIAM E ................................... Ardsley
ZINCK, GEORGE F ..................................... Elmsford

WYOMING COUNTY.
POND, MARCUS E ........................................ Castile

 




 

   
 

LIFE MEMBERS.

THE PAYMENT OF ONE HUNDRED DOLLARS OR. MORE, AT ONE TIME,
SECURES A LIFE MEMBERSHIP.

 
 

A Butler, Miss M. W.

Amend, Bernard G. Butts, Mrs. Laura A.

Anderson, Mrs. A. A.

Pxndrews, C. A. C
Andrews, Mrs. B. L. Cam bell, A. H.
ArCthId, John D. Caryl? Miss Ellen G.
ATHOld, Willlam Chambers, Dr. M. L.
Astor, Mrs. John Jacob Claﬂin, Arthur B.
Astor, William Waldorf Claﬂin, John
Avery. Samuel P. Claﬂin, Mrs. H. B.
Clark, Miss Ella Mabel
B Clausen, Henry
' Clendenin, D.D., Rev. F. M.

Banks, Jr., Robt. Lenox Clews, Henry
Becker. Mrs. Jennie T. B. Coddington, Gilbert S.
Benson, Miss Mary Convers, E. B.
Beresford, Mrs. John G. Corning, John J.
Bergh, Henry Crapo, John M.
Billington, Mrs. Reno B.
Bliss, Robert P. D
Bliss, Susan D.
Bostwick, Mrs. Jabez A. Daly, Henry F-
Boyd, J, Gilmore Daly, Mrs. Henry F.
Braidich, A. F. Dawson, Benjamin Frederick
Brown, Lewis B. DeWitt, George G-
Bundy, Hobart L. Dey. Anthony
Burdick, B, W, Dickinson, Mrs. H. A.

Busteed, In, Richard Dilks, George W.

 

 

  




 

 

 

 

 

Dodge, Mrs. Charles Cleve’d
Dodge, George E.

Dodge, Norman W.

Draper, Mrs. Henry
Dunlap, Cornell

E

Eger, Mrs. T. G.
Ehret, George
Eno, Wm. P.
Ewen, Miss C. G.

F

Faber, Mrs. Angelica B.
Ford, William T.

Ford, James B.

Foster, James

G

Gebhard, William H.
Gerrish, Mrs. Frank Scott
Gilbert, Frederick E.
Gray, Horace

Gudewill, George
Gunning, William J.

H

Hadden, John A.
Haines, John P.
Halsey, Mrs. Frederic Robt.
Hamilton, John L.
Hammond, Edward A.
Hard, Miss Laura W.
Hawkins, Gen. Rush C.
Hawkins, Mrs. Rush C.
Henderson, Mrs. A. C.
Hicks, Benjamin D.
Hoe, Jr., Robert
Holbrook, Miss Lilian

116

Howard, Bronson
Howard, Mrs. Bronson
Humfreville, J. Lee
Hunt, Miss Ann

I

I selin, Adrian

J

James, Mrs. John S.
Jesup, Morris K.
Johnston, J. Boorman

K

Kemp, Edward

Kennedy, John L.
Kingman, Mrs. Martin E.
Kip, Henry S.

Kohlsaat, J. W.

Kraus, Miss Emma

L

Lanier, Charles

Lee, Miss Alleine

Lewis, Mrs. Henry Dickinson:
Liautard, Dr. A. F.

Lilley, C. W.

Low, Joseph T.

M

McGee, James
Marié, Peter

Marlor, Henry S.
Marsh, John Edward
Marshall, Charles H.
Meeker, Dr. C. H.
Meeker, Mrs. C. H.
Merritt, Mrs. George
Milbank, Joseph

 




 

   

  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

Blilbank, Mrs. Joseph
lioffat, Miss Alice E.
Aloffat, Miss Myra
Bloore, Mrs. John Godfrey
Blorss, Mrs. Mary T.
Blott, Jordan L.

.\Ioulton, Miss Eliza
Bloulton, Mrs. F. A.
Elurray, John B.

O

O’Brien, William
Olcott, F. P.

Olcott, Miss Edith
Oothout, William
Osborn, William H.

P

Parrish, James C.
Post, Edwin A.

Pyne, Jr., Moses Taylor
Pyne, Mrs. Percy R.

R

Reusens, G.

Rhinelander, Miss S.
Rhines, Mrs. Isaac Olcott
Ripley, Harry Dillon
Ripley, Sidney Dillon
Rogers, H. H.

Rolfe, Mrs. N. D.
Ruppert, Jacob

117.

Shaw, Mrs. Francis G.
Sherman, George

Sherman, William Watts

Smith, Dr. Edward A.
Smith, Mrs. A. J.

Smith, Miss Josephine C.

Squier, E. George
Standish, Mrs. Myles
Stevens, Frederick W.
Sticht, Mrs. Augusta
Stokes, Miss C. P.
Stokes, Jr., James

Stokes, Miss Olivia E. P.

Straus, Nathan

Stuyvesant, Mrs. J. Reade A

Suckley, Robert B.
Sulzer, Hon. William
Swezey, Mary E.

T

Taylor, George C.
Thompson, Fred. F.
Tiffany, Charles L.

Townsend, Mrs. Howard

Trevor, Henry G.
Tuck, Edward
Tuck, Mrs. Edward

V

Valentine, Mitchel
Vanderbilt, F. W.
Vanderbilt, Mrs. F. W.

Russell, Jr., erchibald Doug, Van Kirk, Miss Lila

R ussell, Hon. Horace

S

Scharmann, H. B.

Van Rensselaer, Kiliaen

Von Post, H. C.

W

Schermerhorn, Mrs. John W. Wagstaff, Hon. Alfred

Schermerhorn, William C.

Wagstaff, Mrs. Alfred

 

 

 

 

  
 
  
 
 
 
  

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

118

Watson, George H. Winslow, Edward

Webb, William H. Winthrop, Benjamin R.
Wendel, Miss Ella Wolff, Agnes H.

Wendel, Miss Georgiana G. R. Wood, Charles B.

Weston, Mrs. R. W. Wyckoﬁ, Mrs. Cora Dillon
Wheeler, Miss Laura

White, Mrs. C. E. Y

Winans, Miss M. Antoinette

Winship, W. A. Yuengling, Jr., David G.

 




     

MEMBER-S.

   
 

THE ANNUAL MEMBERSHIP SUBSCRIPTION IS FIVE DOLLARS.

A

Abraham, Abraham
Ackerman, E. W.
Alexander, J. H.
Allen, Mrs. John K.
Allen, Miss L. D.
Allen, Miss Rose
Alter, David
Amend, C. A. L.

Am Ende, Dr. C.
Andrews, Miss Pearl
Aron, A.
Auchincloss, Mrs. H. D.
.Austin, Mrs. E. B.
Avila, Mrs. Samuel A.
Ayer, Frederick E.

B

Bachmann, Frederick
Backster, Mrs. Clara L.

Backus, Mrs. Foster L. .

Bacon, Marshal L.
Bailey, Mrs. O. S.
Baldwin, H. M.

Baldwin, Mrs. T. Burnett

Ballay, Eugene C.
Ballin, Oscar E.
Banyer, Goldsboro

 
 

Bardes, John

Barker, Miss Isabel R.
Barnes, Davis
Barnes, Miss Mildred
Barrow, Mrs. J. Thomas
Barry, Wm. J.

Barth, Gustav A. .
Barton, Oliver G.
Battermann, H.
Bayne, S. G.

Beach, Mrs. Emily S.
Bechtel, Mrs. Eva
D)eemer, James G.
Beinert, Charles
Belford, William J.
Bell, Thomas O.

' Bellinger, J. P.

Bender, George
Benedicks, Leonard
%enedict, Miss Laura
Benedict, Miss Louise
Benedict, Samuel Ward
Benjamin, A. Bedell
Benjamin, Mrs. A. Bedell
Beramji, R. '

Berlin, H. C.
Berlinghoff, Miss A.
Bernheimer, Mayer S.
Bernheimer, Simon E.
Biddle, John

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Billings, Miss M. M.
Bininger, Wm. G.
Bishop, Miss M. C.
Bishop, Mrs. Heber R.
Blake, Henry

Blake, Miss Kate W.
Blake, Peter

Bliss, E. W.

Bliss, Mrs. E. W.
Bliss, Miss Ida E.
Bliss, Justin A.
Bliss, Mrs. Justin A.
Bliss, Mrs. W. H.
Bloodgood, John H.

Bloomingdale, Charles A.

Bodine, B. J.

Bplton, Mrs. Charlotte L.
Bond, Frank S.
Borman, A. H.
Bowdoin, Miss Edith G.
Bowne, Mrs. Philip H.
Boyd, Allan S.

Brackett, Edgar T.
Brady, Patrick

Braun, Ludwig

Breese, Miss Eloise L.
Bristol, Miss Fanny L.
Brookes, Mrs. E. C.
Brooks, Miss Bertha G.
Brostrom, Miss Abbie
Brown, Addison

Brown, Miss E. W.
Brown, Miss Ellen T‘.
Brown, Edward W.
Brown, Robert

Brown, Walston H.
Brown, Mrs. Walston H.
Brownson, Mrs. W. H.
Bruns, C. A.

Brush, W. Franklin
Bryan, Charles S.
Buck, Miss Winifred
Bull, W. L.

120

Bull, Mrs. W. L;

Bull, Jr., W. L.

Bull, Mrs. William T.
Bullinger, Mrs. E. T.
Burnett, S. O.
Burroughs, \Nilliam V.
Byrnes, Rev. James P.

C

Cady, Mrs. J. C.
Cahill, Michael
Caldwell, R. J.

Calef, Mrs. John H.
Cammann, George P.
Campbell, Alexander
Canty, Daniel
Carpenter, Miss Agnes
Carpenter, Mrs. Miles B.
Carr, Miss Mary J.
Carrington, Miss E. B.
Carscallen, Mrs. J. D.
Cary, Mrs. M. B.

Cary, Mrs. W. F.
Cathcart, Miss Jane R.
Catlin, Miss Cora V. R-
Catlin, Miss Edith R.
Catlin, Miss K. L. R.
Catlin, Wm. H.

Cestero, J. N.

Cestero, Mrs. J. N.
Chamberlain, Miss F. A.
Chapman, Isaac E.
Choate, Hon. Joseph H.
Choate, Mrs. Joseph H.
Cleveland, Mrs. J. Wray
Close, S. B.

Clyde, Miss Mabel
Coburn, Miss L. C.
Cockey, Edward C.
Coe, Miss Miriam Storrs
Cohen, Albert A.
Cohen, Solomon L.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Edwards, J. Pierrepont
Elkins, Miss Fannie
Elkins, Miss Ida
Elliott, Walter T.
Ellis, Mrs. A. V. H.
Ely, Ambrose K. '
Emory, Mrs. John Comegys
Engeman, William A.
Engle, Robt. S.
Englis, Charles M.
Ennis, John J.
Eppelsheimer, Henry
Eppig, Joseph

rbsloh, R.
Erhardt, Hon. Joel B.

F

F ahnestock, William
Fairbanks, Mrs. L.
Fargo, James C.

F eist, Karl

Felt, Mrs. Edwin M.
Finck, August

Fiske, Mrs. Harrison G.
Fisk, Mrs. S. A.
Fitch, M.D., Neil O.
Fitzgerald, Gen. Louis
F legenheimer, Jr., Henry
Flint, Miss Annie
Flint, Miss Helena
Flint, Mrs. Austin
Flint, Jr., Mrs. Austin
Flint, Mrs. Charles R.
Foehrenbach, Jr., F.
Foller, Nicholas
Forbes, Miss Agnes
Ford, Malcolm W.
Forney, Matthias W.
Fox, Mrs. Austen G.
Frankenberg, D.
Franklin, Dr.E. D.
Franks, C. Douglas

122

F ranzreb, John
Freedman, Andrew
Freel, Edward
Freeman, Prof. James J.
Freeman, W. D.

F riedmann, H. G.
Fries, Frederick

F riihauf, Miss Victoria

G

Gage, William B.
Gallaher, Mrs. Julia A.
Gallatin, Frederic

Gatter, Miss Elizabeth Alfny
Gatter, Miss Georgia
Gaus, John, L.

Gebhard, Mrs. Frederic
Gellatly, Mrs. John
Georgen, W. T.

Gerrans, H.

Gibb, John

Gibbert, Sr., Mrs. F. E.
Gibbs, Miss Z.

Gilford, Samuel T.
Gitterman, Mrs. John Milton
Glatz, Mrs. Pauline
Goddard, Miss Annie C.
Godfrey, Miss Lily Alys
Godkin, Lawrence
Godwin, Parke

Goin, Mrs. James

Goin, Mrs. James D.
Golding, John N.

Golding, Jr., John Noble
Golding, Robert Noble
Goodrich, George Selden
Goodrich, Mrs. Thomas F.
Goodridge, Mrs. Frederic
Gould, Mrs. George J.
Graef, Mrs. Harry C.
Grant, Mrs. Ulysses S.
Grant, Rev. Percy S.

 




 

 

    

Grauer, George

Greer, D.D., Rev. David H.

Griffen, Mrs. Perry
Grismer, Mrs. Joseph R.
Griswold, Mrs. George
Griswold, Miss Sarah D.
Groh, John

Gruner, Mrs. Siegfried
Guggenheimer, Hon. R.
Guggenheimer, Mrs. R.
Guiterman, Rudolph
Gunther, Henry

H

Haddock, J. W.
Haffen, John
Hagaman, A.

Haines, G. Sabine
Hale, Mrs. Thomas
Hard, Anson W.
Harkness, Chas. W.
Harkness, Mrs. S. V.
Harriman, Mrs. J. Borden
Harris, Isaac

Harris, Mrs. Laura C.
Harrison, Mrs. Mary L.
Hart, Charles
Hartman, P. H.
Harvey, George F.
Hastings, Chas. F.
Hastings, Mrs. A. F.
Hastings, Mrs. W. C.
Hatch, Dr. Henry D.
Havemeyer, J. Craig
Haviland, S. W.
Hawley, Edwin
Healey, A. Augustus
Healey, John J.
Heaton, Mrs. Chas. A.
Hecht, Aaron
Heckmann, Mrs. Barbette
Heckscher, John G.

123

Heene, E.
Hein, Eggert

Heller, Clarence
Heller, Mrs. E. L.
Hellman, Theodore
Hellman, Mrs. Theodore
Henderson, Mrs. James A.
Hendricks, Charles
Hendricks, Mrs. Charles
Hentschel, Charles

Hentz, Henry '

Herrick, M.D., Everett
Herrmann, Mrs. Adelaide
Hess, Mrs. N.

Hewitt, Miss Sarah Cooper
Heyland, E. A.
Higginson, Miss Dorothy L.
Hill, James K.

Hill, Warren E.

Hinton, Miss S. McV.
Hitchcock, Miss F. A.
Hitchcock, Mrs. Welcome G.
Hix, Mrs. Preston

Hoefer, Charles R.

Hoegg, William
Hoffmann, Jacob

Hogan, Charles W.

Hohns, Herman

Holbrook, Edward
Holbrook, Mrs. Edward
Hollins, Jack Knapp
Hollins, Mrs. H. B.

Holt, Miss Winifred

Holz, Bernard

Hone, Mrs. Chas. Russell
Hoover. Miss Fanny

Hopf, Max G.

Hopkins, H. C.
Hopkinson, Miss Jennie M.
Horrmann, August
Horrmann, Charles
Horrmann, William
Horton, James M.

  

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Houghton, Arthur A.
Hubbard, Thomas H.
Huber, Otto

Hudson, Mrs. Alice P.
Humason, Mrs. V. P.
Huntington, Archer M.
Huntington, Mrs. C. P.
,Hupfel, J. C. G.

Hyatt, Mrs. Margaret A.

I

Ibert, Frank

Ingersoll, Miss Maud
Ingersoll, Mrs. Robert G.
Irving, John

Isaacs, David

,Isaacs, Gabriel

Iselin, C. Oliver

Iselin, Miss G.

.Ives, Wm. Jay

J

Jackson, B. A.

Jackson, Theo. F.

Jackson, F. W.

Jahn, Wm.

Jennewein, Valentine

Jevons, Thomas E.

Jex, Miss Emily D.

Jex, Mrs. Josiah

Johnson, F. Coit

Johnson, Joseph

Johnson, Dr. S. K.

Johnston, Mrs. Mary

Jones, Floyd-, Mrs.
Stanton

Jones, Frank

Jones, Mrs. Cadwalader

Jones, Miss Julia I.

Jurgens, W. B. A.

Jurvelius, Madame Thyra

Geo.

K

Kane, S. Nicholson
Keck, Albert

Keene, Mrs. Foxhall P.
Keith, Dr. Horace G.
Keltermeyer, John
Kendall, Miss Georgiana
Kendall, Miss S. R.
Kestler, Bruno B.
King, Marc J.

King, Mrs. Percy R.
Kirk, Mrs. Harford B.
Knapp, John M.
Knapp, Miss M. M.
Knickerbocker, M. A.
Knopf, A. E.

Knox, John Mason
Koegler, William

Kreis, Philip

L

Langdon, W oodbury G.
Lanman, Mrs. Jonathan T.
Lapham, Mrs. John J.
Lawrence, Cyrus J.
Lawrence, Miss Hannah N.
Lawrence, John L.
Lawrence, Mrs. John L.
Lawrence, Mrs. S.
Learned, Billings P.
Learned, Mrs. Billings P. J
Lee, Prof. B. F.

Leeds, Mrs. John G.
Leggett, Francis H.
Leslie, Miss Gertrude
Levy, Aaron

Lewis, H. D.

Leyes, Peter

Liebmann, Charles
Linder, Jr., Charles
Lipsius, Mrs. Claus
Livingston, Miss Ann L.

 




 

    

    

Livingston, Mrs. R. E.
Lloyd, Phoenix
Lockman, Jacob K.
Lockman, John T.
Loewi, Edgar

Loewi, Mrs. Edgar
Loewi, Valentine
Loomis, Alfred L.

Lorette, Miss Frances M. V.

Lovedale, Charles

Low, Miss Nathalie F.
Low, Hon. Seth

Low, Mrs. Seth

Lowell, Miss C. Russell
Ludlow, Banyer

Ludlow, Mrs. James Ogden
Lund, John

Lusk, Miss Anna H.
Lynch, Mrs. Jasper

M

llacdonald, A. J.
llackay, Mrs. B.
Blackenzie, John
Blackenzie, Miss L.
Mackenzie, Miss M.
fxlackenzie, William
llacy, Mrs. V. Everit
llagnotti, R.
llaitland, T. A.

liaitland, Mrs. Helen V. V.

llanigault, Mrs. Anne M.
Mann, Francis A.
Manson, Jr., Mrs. T. L.
)larcks, L. H.

llarks, Mrs. Nannette
Blarshall, Miss C. E.
llarshall, Mrs. E. C.
llartin, C. C.

llarvin, James M.
lIason, James Kent
llattmann, Mrs. C.

125

Maurer, Mrs. Henry A.
Maxwell, Henry W.
May, Moses ,
Mayer, David
McBurney, Mrs. S. A.
McCaffrey, B.
McDonald, J.

McEwen, Mrs. D. C.
McGahie, John

McGirr, Wm. J.
McGovern, Rev. P.
McKendrick, Miss Claire F.
McKinstry, Mrs. L. L.
McLean, George H.
McLean, John L.
McVickar, W. N.
Meagher, Mrs. T. F.
Meht, Mrs. Lena I.
Mergle, Anton
Meserole, A. V.
Metzger, Mrs. Abram
Michelbacher, S.

Miller, Mrs. C. A.
Minck, Henry

Mitchell, John A.
Mitchell, A. Roger
Moffatt, Mrs. Cleveland
Moller, Mrs. Anna M. B.
Moller, Miss S. Adelina
Moller, Mrs. Peter
Moller, Peter
Monahan, Thomas
Monroe, Augustin
Monroe, Mrs. Elbert B.
Montant, A.
Montgomery, George L.
Morgan, Miss Louisa P.
Morris, Lewis G.
Morrison, Mrs. Geo. Austin
Morrison, Henry P.
Morton, Hon. Levi "P.
Mulholland, John E.
Munch, William

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

126

Munroe, Mrs. Chester
Murray, Miss Sophia I.
Myers, George L.
Myers, Miss Lillie

N

Namm, Adolph I.

Nash, John McL.

N eidlinger, Adam
Nelson, Mrs. Walter H.
N ewell, Miss Lucy P.
Newgreen, Miss Emily
Newhall, J. B.

Newman, D.V.S., Philip H.
Newton, Mrs. R. H.
Nichols, Erickson N.
Nielsen, N. P.

Noble, Mrs. Elizabeth F.
Noble, Rob’t H.

North, Thomas M.
Nostrand, Frank

O

Obermeyer, Theodore
O’Brien, M. J.

Ochs, Ernest

Ogden, W. B.

Olcott, George M.

Orr, John C.

O’Shaughnessy, Nelson J. W.
Owen, Mrs. Thomas J.

P

Page, Edward D.
Palmer, Francis F.
Palmer, George Q.
Palmer, Lowell M.
Palmer, N. F.

Palmer, Mrs. N. F.
Parker, Benedict ,
Parker, Miss Mary D.

Parsons, Mrs. Edwin
Parsons, William H.
Pearsall, Mrs. F. E.
Peilert, Mrs. L.

Pell, J. H.

Pell, Mrs. J. H.
Perkins, Miss Edith Howell
Perry, Dr. John L.
Phelps, Mrs. Anson G.
Pirie, S. C.

Pohalski, H. Percy
Pomroy, Mrs. H. K.
Pool, John H.

Potter, Mrs. Geo. M.
Potter, Wm.

Prescott, Mrs. Annie E.
Preston, Mrs. Geo. Rutledge
Proctor, Miss H. F.
Prout, Dr. J. S.

Prout, Mrs. J. S.

Purdy, J. H.

Putnam, Geo. L.

‘ Pyne, Mrs. Moses Taylor

Q

Quimby, Frank P.
Quin, Louis
Quinlan, Thos. F.
Quinlan, William
Quintard, George W.

R

Rader, Gustavus W.
Rae Baer, Miss R.
Ramsay, Miss Grace S.
Rand, George C. .
Rapallo, Mrs. Edward S.
Raphael, H.

Raymond, Charles H.
Raynor. Miss Florence
Read, Wm. A.

 




 

127

Remsen, Miss Margaret S.
Renwick, William W.
Reynolds, C. H.
Rinschler, Frank
Roberts, Miss Mary M.
Rodewald, F. L.
Ronalds, Geo. L.
Roome, W. Harris
Rosenbaum, Mrs. Helen
Rosenbaum, Mrs. Mary
Rosenthal, Robert J.
Rosenwald, Henry
Rosenwald, Isaac
Rosenwald, Sigmund
Ross, William B.

Roth, George

Rouss, C. Broadway
Rowland, Jr., Thomas Fitch
Rowland, Thomas Fitch
Rushmore, S. W.
Russell, Mrs. James Towns’d
Ryer, George S.

S

Schaefer, Charles
Schloss, Alexander P.
Schmadeke, John F.
Schmidt, Mrs. John A.
Schmielan, C. F.
Schmitt, Mrs. Joseph
Schnurmacher, J.
Scholer, Dr. Gustav
Schrader, George
Schrader, Miss Emma
Schultz, Carl H.
Schurz, Miss Marianne
Scott, Mrs. Winﬁeld
Scabury, George J.
Seccomb, Miss Bertha H.
Seccomb, Mrs. E. A.
Seccomb, Miss Hilda C.
Sedgwick, Robert

8

Sellew, Mrs. E. E.
Selvage, Mrs. Edwin
Seybel, D. E.
Shearman, Thomas G.
Sheldon, Mrs. Henry K.
Sheldon, James
Sheldon, Mrs. James
Sheldon, James O.

Shepard, Dr. A. W.

Sheridan, Thomas W.
Shivler, Charles S.
Shotwell, H. T.

Shriver, Mrs. Harry T.
Shults, John H.

Siegel, John R.

Siegman, Alfred

Siegman, Edward
Siegman, Richard

Silver, Mrs. Charles A.
Sinclair, John J.

Skene, Dr. Alexander J. C.
Skene, Mrs. Alexander J. C.
Small, Miss Blanche D.
Smart, Mrs. F. R.
Smith, A. W.

Smith, Crawford C.
Smith, Henry A.

Smith, Master Jewell Kellogg
Smith, William Alexander
Smith, Mrs. M. Adele
Smith, Mrs. A. W.

Smith, Mrs. Alexander
Smith, Mrs. Andrew W.
Smith, Mrs. Wm. Alex.
Snow, E. G.

Snyder, Mrs. Josephine
Solomon, Robert G.
Spencer, F. G.

Spencer, Jr., Lorillard
Spencer, Jr., Mrs. Lorillard
Speyer, Mrs. James
Spring, Miss Anna R.
Spruck, Henry

 

 

 

 

l
f!

l !

I.
l

J

 




  

 

   
  
 
 
 

 

  
 

 

   
 
 
   

 

 

 

  

 

 
 
  
 

 

 

 

   
  
  
 
  
   
  
   
    
 
 

 

l‘l-
w
M.

 

 

.

Standish, Myles
Stanton, Mrs. John
Stanton, Miss Julia C.
Stark, William
Stedman, Miss Gertrude
Stein, A. M.

Stein, Conrad
Stephens, John H.
Stern, Benja‘min
Steurer, Miss Anna
Stewart, Hugh
Stewart, Thomas J.

Stewart, William Rhinelander

Stickney, Mrs. Joseph
Still, John A.

Stillman, Thomas E.
Stokes, Anson Phelps
Stone, Edwin

Story, J; T.

Strauss, Mrs. Jacob
Strauss, Samuel

Streat, James

Strong, Theron G.
Strong, Mrs. Theron G.
Sturges, Miss May F.
Sullivan, Mrs. Catharine A.

' Sutton, Mrs. Gregory

Suydam, Walter L.
Swalm, Geo. W.
Swords, Miss P. Caroline

T

Taber, Miss Mary
Tailer, William H.
Tanenbaum, Moses
Taylor, Mrs. A. E. Scranton
Taylor, Mrs. Moses
Taylor, Thomas F.
Thomas,‘ Frederic C.
Thompson, Edward P.
Thompson, Miss Rhoda
Thompson, Mrs. Robert M.

128

 

  

   

Thorne, Miss Phebe Anna
Thorne, Samuel C.
Thorne, Mrs. T. W.
Thouron, Mrs. E. A.
Thurnauer, Felix
Tiedemann, F.

Tilford, Mrs. Charles E.
Tilford, Mrs. Frank
Timolat, James G.
Toby, Geo. P.
Toedteberg, Miss Emma
Townshend, John

Trask, G. D. S.

Truog, Mrs. Randolph
Tryon, F. M.

Tuck, H.

Tucker, Mrs. R. S.
Tuckerman, Alfred
Tuckerman, Mrs. Alfred
Tuttle, Miss E.

U

Ulmer, William
Ulrichs, Thomas
Ulshoeffer, W. G.

V

Valentine, Mrs. A. C.
Valentine, R. B.

Van Bossanyi, Fred.

Van Buren, Mrs. H. M.
Vanderb‘eck, F. W.

Van Der Roest, Geo.

Van Ingen, Mrs. E. H.
Van Ness, J. Newton .

Van Nest, Miss Alice

Van Nest, Mrs. Alex. T.
Van Orden, Miss Anna
Van Orden, Miss Mary L.
Van Tine, Mrs. J. H.

Van Volkenburgh, Miss S. E.

  

 

 




®bituarg 1Recorb

The Society mourns the loss of twenty-two members

of Whose death it has been notiﬁed during the year
1899, .viz. :

ABENDROTH, W. P.
APPLETON, W. H.
BONNER, ROBERT
BUTLER, MISS M. H.
CLARK, EDWARD J.
EATON, DORMAN B.
ENSIGN, HERMAN L.
FLEGENHEIMER, HENRY
FURMAN, JOHN T.
HAMILTON, HENRY
HOGAN, TIMOTHY
INGERSOLL, ROBERT G.
KEENEY, E. N.
LYMAN, E. H. R.
MEYER, MRS. L. H.
ROBERTS, C. R.
SQUIRE, NEWTON R.
TAYLOR, ALEXANDER
THEBAUD, PAUL L.
VAN IDERSTINE, F. A.
VOISLAWSKY, S. P.
ZELTNER, HENRY

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

    

   
   
      
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
    

DONATIONS RECEIVED DURING

YEAR 1899.
A k M A grett, lMJrSh Carrie ........ $2 00
a. C er, errall & Condit. . I‘IStO , O n I. D ........ 00
Alexander, Charles ....... $1: 88 Brooklyn Humane Ass’n. 28 50
Alpers, Mrs. G. W., a In ' Brown, Addison .......... IO 00 ’
IVIemory of Tatters n. .. I 00 Brown, E. C ............. 5 00
Anderson, Mrs. A. A ..... 100 00 Brown & Seccomb ....... IO 00
linonymous ............. I 00 gruci, %§orge """""""" I 00
4 nonymous .......... rus , . Franklin ...... Io 00
Anonymous . .. . . .. .. g 83 Bunce, John .............. 3 00
Arnold, Constable & Co. . 5 00 Burger & Hower Brewing
Austin, Mrs. F. B ........ 5 00 Co. .................... IO 00
gurkﬁ, Eduﬁlrd F ........ 100 00
. B use ottling Co.. 00
Eagle Mr O B Butler, Wm. Allen ....... 1:00
Balliny,Osc:r E ........ Ii 00 BUN/Its, Mrs. Laura A., “ In
, .......... 00 emory 0 Wm. H.
33:33.23 0&1}. A .......... g 88 Butts ”. ................ 500 00
Barker, Miss. Isah .l. R.
Earth, Mrs. G...e. ...... 1:8?) i C
ates, Mrs. A. F .......
Bechtel, Mrs. Eva. . . g 88 Calfﬁoulcl" Hecnry Vi] ...... IS 00
Benedict Miss Loui at. ’ 153 me la J'“ 5 00
Berlin H C se. g (0):; ga1penﬁer, 11\\/I/Iiss figﬁles. . IO 00
Berthele, J (33...... ...... arsca en,~ rs. . ..... I oo
Billings Miss M M ..... 2(1) 88 CC:arter, Walter S ......... IO 00
, _ . ...... ary, M1ss Ellen G ....... 100 00
Ellagkwhe/III,M11353 Frances W. I 00 “ Cash ” 50 00
a1r, rs. . F ......... “ ..... ,.’ ..........
IIgiankley, Mrs. Thomas. .E 88 “ 53:3, )ifinalg, 1899 2(5) 32
BlisdeLI/IS. George T ..... 25 oo Castree, Miss Louise ..... IO 00
Blood, rs. S. S ........ IO 00 Chamberlain, Mrs. M. H. I oo
B0031 egosoccl3 0.131121; SHCT .MOIk IO 00 EgaunceyMSam‘tiivel ........ IO 00
e 1 iso m, rs. . E ...... 50 00
B £3526”? 1.01155. ........... 2: oo Elﬁrom'e StVeVel yorks ..... 5 oo
............ 00 rystie, . IO 00
Bostwick, Wm. T., “ In Cochin, Mrs. W. S ........ 2 00
Memory of Prince and Cockey, Edward C ....... 2 00'
yp ................. 5 oo Coe, W. R ............... IO 00
Braidich, A. F ........... 113 00 Cofﬁn, Sturgis ...........

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

132

Collins, Miss Ellen ....... $16 00
Congress Brewing Co. .. . 5 oo
Consolidated Ice Co ..... 6 39
Cortelyou, D. N .......... 5 oo
Coster, C. H ............. 20 oo
Cromwell, George ........ 5 00
Cross Austin Ireland Lum—
ber Co .................
5 oo

Curie, Charles ............ 20 00

D

Dahn, John A., & Sons. .
Daly, Henry F ...........
Daly, Mrs. Henry F ......
De Morgan, Mrs .........
Destin, Lottie Y .........
Dillon, John F., “In Mem-
' ory of Mrs. Dillon Oli-
ver ”. ..................
Dodge, Mrs. Wm. B, Sr.
Dodge, Rev. David Stuart
Dodge, George E. . . . . .. .
Donigan, John M ........
DuBois, Ethel... .. . . ..
Dunning, H. A ...........

5 oo
25 oo
25 oo

2 00

I 00

IO 00
IO 00
IO 00

100 00
5 oo

5 00
I 00

E

Eastern Brewing Co ......
Eastman, Joseph ........ Z
Eddy, Mrs. Jane B .......
Edwards, Mrs. J. Pierre-

pont ...................
Eger, Mrs. T. G .........
Eger, Mrs. T. G., “In

Memory of Mrs. H.,Eger

Cole”. ................
Ehret, George ............
Einstein, E ...............
Ellis, Mrs. John T ........
Elson, B. F ..............
Eppig, Joseph ............
Estate of Charles Frese..
Esther Circle of King’s

Daughters .............

500
500
200
500
500

500

F

Fairbanks, Mrs. Leland. . .
. Fallerts Brewing Co., Jos.
Fanning, Mrs. R S

.Farmers’ Feed Co ........

50 oo
5 oo
5 oo
5 00

Fire Patrol Committee. .. $55 00
. I

Fitzgerald, Mrs. Agnes. .
Flanagan, Wm ...........
Flint, F. W ..............
Flint, Mrs. C. R ..........
F oote, Elroy .............
Foote, Dr. E. B .........

00
200
2500
3000
zoo
300

Ford, James B ........... 100 00

Frank, W. H.,Brewing Co.
Freedman, H. D .........
F reel, Mrs. Edward ......
“ Friend and Contributor”
“ Friend, From a ” .......
“ Friend, From a ” .......
Frothingham, H. P .......

G

Gates, Miss Charlotte G. .
Gibbs, Miss Z
Gibson, Miss H. L .......
Gillies, John ..............
Gillies, Joseph ............
Glatz, Mrs. Pauline .......
Glover, Mrs. Amelia ......
Gold, A. R
Goodhue, Miss Sarah C. .
Goodridge, Mrs. Frederic.
Gould, Miss Helen M .....
Gourly, Bruno, “ In Mem-
ory of Old Black Pete ”.
Graef, Mrs. Harry C ......
Grifﬁn, 0. W
Grifﬁth, Charles, & Son. . .
Gwynne, E. A ............

H

Haight, Mrs. A.........
Haight, Mrs. A., “In Mem

ory of Old Black Pete ”.
Haight, Mrs. A., “ In Mem-

ory of Peter Bruno ”. . .
Haight, Stephen S ........
Harding, Wm. J ..........
Hardy, James ............
Hardy, Voorhees & Co. . .
Harkness, Charles W .....
Harkness, S. V ..........
Harris, Laura C ..........
Harrison, Mrs. Mary L..
Healy, A. Aug ...........
Heissenbuttell & Nearing.
Henn, Mrs. G. V

5 oo
5 _
5
20
15
I
IO

 




 

     
  
  
  
   
   
    
  
   
    
   
   
   
   
   
  
   
   
    
  
  
  
 
  
 
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
 

Herrick, Mrs. H. P .......
Hillman, Miss Antoinette
Hiéchcock, Mrs. Welcome
Hoecker, J. B ............
Hoffman, Mrs. W. B .....
Hogan, Timothy .........
Hornthal, Mrs. Sarah, “In

BIemory of Mark Horn-

thal” .................
Hosch, F ................
Howland, Mrs. H. L
Hubbard, Thomas E
Hupfel Brewing Co

I

115 Qley, S. A., &C0 ........
India Wharf Brewing Co.
Innes, Mrs. Addie
Iselin, Adrian
Iselin, Arthur ............
Iselin, Miss Louise A.
Iselin, William E .........
Iselin, Mrs. William E. .. .
Iselin, William O’Donnell
Itgen, E

Jackson, Theo. E .........
Jacob, Charles ...........
Jaquins, Mrs. E... .. .. ..
Jessup, Charles P .........
Jevons, Thomas E ........
Jex. Mrs. Josiah ..........
Johnson, Miss Mary V. M.
Johnson, S. K., D. V. 5..

Johnston, E ..............
Johnston, Mrs. E. P ......

K

Kelsey & Loughlin .......
Kemys, Walter S .........
Kenyon & Newton .......
Kidd, Mrs. Estelle ........
Kimball, H. G ...........
King & Adams ...........

I.

Langdon, Woodbury G. . .
Langler, N., & Sons ......

$1 00
I 00

IO 00
IO 00
5 oo
5 00

500

5
500

IO 00
5 oo

2 oo

5 oo
25 oo
50 oo
1 00
325 00
I 00

I 00

I33

Lanier, Mrs. J. F. D ...... $25 00
Lavand, H ............... 5 00
Lawrence, Miss Hannah. . ‘20 00
Lawrence, Mrs. John L.. 75 00
Lee, Mrs. J. L ........... IO 00
Leighton, Dr. N. W... .. . I 00
Lewis, Mrs. George. .. 200 00

Lewis, Mrs. H. D ........ 20 00
Lewis, H. D ............. 25 00
Lewisohn Bros ........... 5 00

Livingston, Miss Anna L. 40 00
Livingston, Mrs. R. E. .. . IO 00

Lockitt’s Sons, Geo ...... 5 00
Long Island Brewery ..... 5 00
Luis, H. & Sons ......... 5 00
M
Mackay, Archibald K. . . . Io 00
Maitland, Thomas A ..... 50 oo
Malcolm, Mrs. W. L ...... 5 00
Manney, Mrs. Charles P. . 2 oo
Manning, Mrs. C. P ...... I 00
Marshall, Miss Carrie E. . 5 00
Marston & Son .......... 5 00
Martin, C. C ............. IO 00
Matthews, John, The Firm 5 00
Mattmann, Mrs. C ........ IO 00
Maurer, Miss Emily ...... I 00
Maurer, Miss Henrietta. . I 00
May, Levy & May ....... Io 00
Mayor, Otto L ........... 25 oo
McCarthy, John G ....... 5 00 ’
McCreery, Robert S ..... 5 oo
McGovern, Rt. Rev. Thos. I 00
McLean, John S .......... 5 oo
McRoberts, Hugh ........ 5 00
Meeker, Dr. C. H ........ 110 00
Meeker, Mrs. Mary E. 100 00
Meltzer Bros ............. 5 00
Mengher, Mrs. F. F ...... IO 00
Milbank, Mrs. Joseph” . 50 oo
Milbank, Joseph .......... 100 00
Miller, Allen S ........... 2 00
Miller, Mrs. E. F ......... 2 00
Mollenhauer Sugar Reﬁn-
ing Co ................. 5 00
Montgomery, H. W ...... 8 00
Moran, D. Conyer ........ 5 00
Morgan, George H ....... Io 00
Morgan, Mrs. W. D ...... 5 oo-
Morton, John, & Sons.. 5 00
. ................ 5 00
“M. S.” ................ .. 2 oo
Muller, Martin ........... 2 00

 

 

   




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

N
Nassau Brewing Co ...... $10 00
Niles, Mrs. Philip ........ 25 00
Noble, Mrs. Robert J.... 5 00
O
Olcott, Miss Edith ....... 100 00
Olmsted, Mrs. Chas. Tyler 5 00
Osborn, Mrs. Wm. Church IO 00
P
Pape, Otto ............... 2 00
Parker & McIntyre ...... 5 00
Plant, S. & H ............ 5 oo
Plemﬁsch, Julius ......... 5 oo
Pomroy, Mrs. Henry K. . 20 00
Porter, Mrs. M. A ........ 5 oo
Powell, D. B ............. 00
Preston, Mrs. George Rut-
ledge ................... 5 oo
Pryer, Miss A. C ........ 5 00
Purdy, M. E ............. I oo
Pyle, James, & Sons ..... IO 00
Pyne, Mrs. Percy R ...... 500 00
Q
Quinlan, Thomas ........ 5 00
R
Rand, George C ......... IO 00
Rapallo, Mrs. Edward S. . IO 00
Read, William A ......... 50 00
Rodewald, F .............. 5 00
Rogers, Mrs. M. S ....... 5 oo
Roth & Goldschmidt Cor-
set Co ................. 5 oo
Rushmore,I.W.......... 500
Russell, Mrs. S. H ...... 2 00
S
“ Savings of Carola and
Frederick ” ........... IO 00
Schaefei, F. & M, Brew-
ing Co ................. 15 00
Schermerhorn, Mrs. John
.................... II 00

    

I34

Seitz, M ..................
Sheldon, James O ........ 20
Simonson, Joseph ........ 5
Smith, Wm. Alexander. . . IO
Sooysmith, Charles ....... 5
Sprague, Mr ............. 5
Spring, Miss Anna R ..... 5
Squire, Mrs. N. R., “In
Memory of N.R.Squire” 5
Standish, Mrs. Myles ..... 300
Steele Bros ............... 5
Stickney, J ............... 25
Strong, Theron G ........ 25
Stutz, Louis .............. 5
T
Taylor, George C ........ 50
Taylor, James R .......... 5
Taylor, Thomas .......... 5
Thompson, James. . 5

Thompson, Mrs. Rob’t M. . 5

Thorne, Miss Phoebe Anna 25
Thorne, Samuel .......... 20
Thorne, Mrs. T. W ...... 5
Tiedemann, Frederick. . . . 5
Tierning. G .............. 3
Tisdale, Mrs. Emma L. . . . I
Titus, Mrs. A. L ......... 15
“ Tom ” ................. 2o
Topham, Miss A. E ...... I
Toplitz, Mrs. Celia R ..... Io
Townsend, Miss Emma... 5
Tuckerman, Mrs. Alfred. . 15
Turner, F. S. & E. J ...... I
Tusch, Ferdinand .........
Tyson, D. J .............. 5
U
'U. S. Bun-g Mfg. Co ...... 5
V
“ Valley Cottage ” ........ 2
Van Clief, Wm ........... 5
Van Ingen, Mrs. E. H. . .. 5
Vogel, Wm., & Bro ...... 5
Vorgang, C. P ........... 5
W
Walker, Robert ........... IO
Wallace, Wm. H ......... 5

Walser, Dr. Wm .........

   
    

00

 




135

‘a‘y'ard, Miss F. L .......... $3 00 Wilde’s Sons, Samqel ..... $5 00
‘ﬁ'ard, Sn, John .......... 5 oo Wilhelm, Mrs. Emily.. 5 00
"Neeks, T. W ............. 5 oo Winans, Miss M. Antel-

W'eil, Lemuél ............. 5 00 nette .................. 5 00
White, A. M ............. 5 oo Winans, Miss Isabel ...... 3 00
T‘Chite, Horace ........... 5 oo Winship, L A ........... 15 00
”White, Miss S. E ......... 100 00 Wolff, Lewis S. . . .. ....... 15 00
Ei'iddecombe, John ....... 5 oo Wright, Miss Harriet ..... 5 00
“Wirediner, P .............. 5 00 Wygant, W~ E ----------- 5 00‘

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2...... ‘j ‘2 ‘ . STATISTICS FOR YEAR ENDING DECEMBER 31, 1899.

The following summary will be found interesting as showing the work accomplished during the year 1899 by kindred
societies throughout the United States and Canada. Because ﬁgures are omitted, it does not follow that no work was
accomplished. In many instances reports were not received, and in others the ﬁgures were not available or no records were
kept.

 

LOCATION. NAME OF SOCIETY.

I 36
1110.1; popuadsns AIIJBJ

-aueumq ‘AlaAooal ised
palqesip ‘slemiue 95‘er

'paAonsap A1

 

~saoue1
-nqum u; 9199115 11101;
paAouxal slemtue aﬁnq
'paAonsap Alaueumq
‘AJaAooaJ 1sed panBst

'paieﬁpsaAu;
19q10 pure ‘samul ‘sasmH

Jaqw pue sasmq palqesgq
.10 ssalamoq‘smwiue [12mg
-odu191 slemiue panequ
am in pamoasmd saseg

 

 

pm; paAIaoaj squgeldmog ‘

 

ALABAMA.
Mobile ,, , Mobile S. P. C. A. . - . . . . .
Birmingham ' Birmingham Humane Societ

ARIZONA.
Tucson , . S P. C. A. Of Tucson .

ARKANSAS.
Little Rock , Humane Society of Little Rock, Ark.*

CALIFORNIA.
San Francisco . The San Francisco S. P. C. A.* .
Los Angeles . The Los Angeles S. P. C. A. . . . . .
San José . . . . Santa Clara County S. P. C. A. .
San Diego . . . San Diego Humane Society* . . . .
Sacramento . The Sacramento County Humane Society

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

I LLINOIs.—C ontinued.

Champaign
Springﬁeld .
Jacksonville
Jerseyville .
Harvard .
Danville .
Whitehall .
INDIANA.
Indianapolis
Crawfordsville
Evansville .
Fort Wayne
South Bend
Terre Haute
Muncie . .
Elkhart . .
Richmond .
Peru . . .
Kokomo .
IOWA.
Des Moines
Sioux City .
KANSAS.
Wichita .
Topeka . .
KENTUCKY.
Louisville .
Henderson
Frankfort .
Covington .
LOUISIANA.

New Orleans .

 

Champaign Branch Illinois Humane Society
The Humane Society of Springﬁeld . . . .
Jacksonville Humane Society . . .
The Jerseyville Humane S. P. C. A. & C. . .
Harvard Branch of The Illinois Humane Soc.
United States Humane Society. . .
Whitehall Humane Society . . . .

The Indiana Humane Society . .
Montgomery Co. Humane S. P. C. A & C. .
The Evansville Humane S. P. C. W. C. &A.
Fort Wayne Humane Society .

The South Bend Humane Society .
Terre Haute Humane Society .

Muncie Humane Society . . . .
Elkhart Humane Society . . . .
Wayne County Humane Society .
The Humane Society of Peru, Ind.
Kokomo Humane Society. . .

~—

The Iowa Humane Society* . . .
The Sioux City Humane Society

The Kansas City Humane Society .
The Foster Humane Society . . .

Kentucky Humane S. P. C. . . .
Henderson Humane Society. . .
Franklin County Humane Society
Kenton County Humane Society .

Louisiana State S. P. C. A.*.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

MAINE.
Portland . . . . Maine State S. P. C. A. . . . . . . . . .....
Bangor . . . . . The Bangor Humane Society . . . . . . . . . . 12 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .
Waterville . . . . Waterville S. P. C. A. . . . . . . 4 I 8 I . . . . 5
Lewiston . . . . LewistonandAuburnS. P. C. A. . . . . .

MARYLAND.
The Maryland S. P. C. A. . . . . . . 80 135 29 3205 18 2698

Baltimore . .
MASSACHUSETTS. 1
Boston . . . . . ‘ The Massachusetts S. P. C. A.* . . . . . 228 1667 2248 . . 21973
Taunton . . . . . Taunton Humane Society* . . . . . . . I 456 I 7 . . . . . . . . 44
Lowell . . . . . ‘ The Lowell Humane Society . . . . . . 9 . . . . 19 293 . . . . 1411
MICHIGAN.
Detroit . . . . Michigan S. P. C. A. . . . . . . . . . 9 412 92 21 7 893
Grand Rapids . . ‘ Kent County Humane Society. . . . . . 28 . . . . 27 . . . . 31 700
Kalamazoo . . . Kalamazoo Humane Society. . . . . . . . . .. . . .. . . .. . . .. . .. . . . . . .
MINNESOTA. '
St. Paul. . . . . MinnesotaS. P. C. . . . . . . . .
Minneapolis . . . Minneapolis Humane Society . . . . . . 10 127 53 10 . .. . 832
Duluth . . . . . ; Duluth Humane Society . . . . . . . . ' 6 . . . . 2 . . . . . . . . 104
St.Pau1. . . . . St. PaulS P. C. . . . . . . . . .a..
Owatonna . . . . 4 Steele County Humane Society. . . . . . 2 15 7 . 25
Winona . . . . . The Winona Humane Society . . . . . . . . . . 57 16 . . . . . .. . 261
St. Cloud . . . . St. Cloud Humane Society . . . . . . . . . . . 9 . .. . . . . . . . . . 98
Red Wing. . . . Red Wing Humane Society. . . . . . .
Rochester . . . . Rochester Humane Society . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . .
Stillwater . . . . Stillwater Humane Society . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
MISSISSIPPI.
Natchez. . . . . The Mississippi S. P. C. A. . . . . . . .
MISSOURI.
St. Louis . . . . Humane Society of Missouri* . . . . . 96 1398 318 37 3617
St. Louis . . . . Woman’s Humane Society of Missouri . . . . . . .

139

 

Kansas City . . . The Humane Society of Kansas City . . . . .. . . . . . 12 4 . . . .
St. Joseph . . . . 1 The Humane Society of St. Joseph*. . . . 8 63 19 7 . .. . 644
“Sedalia . . . . The Humane Society of Sedalia, Missouri . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

NEBRASKA.
Omaha . .
South Omaha

NEW HAMPSHIRE.

Portsmouth
Keene .
NEW JERSEY.
Newark .
Jersey City
Cape May
Vineland
Morristown
Camden .
Hackensack
Elizabeth . .
Perth Amboy .
Cranford
Paterson
Somerville .
Princeton
Lodi . . .
Orange . .
Ridgewood
NEW YORK.
New York .
Sing Sing
Rochester
Buffalo
Poughkeepsie
Newburg
Oswego.
Fulton . .
Syracuse . .

O

 

Nebraska Humane Society. . .
South Omaha Humane Society.

New Hampshire S. P. C. A. .
The Keene Humane Society .

The New JerseyS. P. C. A. .

The Hudson County District S. P. C A.
Cape May, N. J., District S. P. C. A.

The Vineland S. P. C. A. .

Morris County Bianch New Jersey S. P. C. A
The Camden S. P. C. A. . .

The Bergen County S. P. C. A. .

The S. P. C. A. of Union County, N. J.
Perth AmboyS. P. C. A. . .

Cranford, N. J. Br. of The N. J. S. P. C. A.
Passaic County District S. P. C. A. . .
Somerset County S. P. C. A.

Princeton S. P. C. A. . .

District Society 1n Lodi, Bergen County
Essex County District S. P. C. A. .
Ridgewood S. P. C. A. . .

The American S. P. C. All .

Sing Sing Br. of the American S. P. C. A. * .
The Humane Soc. of Rochester, N. Y. ,.P C. A. *
The Erie County S. P. C. A.* . .
The Poughkeepsie S. P. C. A.

The NewburgS. P. C. A. . .

S. P. C. A. of Oswego City, N. Y.. . . .
S. P. C. A. of Village of Fulton, N. Y. . .
The Central New York S. P. C. A. . . .

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




1 J
.wng, .C' m:- s-

NEW YORK—Con
Nyack . .
Elmira
Binghamton
Kingston
VVatertown
Albany
Lockport
Cortland
Rome .
Auburn

NORTH CAROLINA.

Asheville
Wilmington

OHIO.
Cincinnati
Cleveland
Canton
Columbus
Toledo
Warren
Dayton . .
Athens
Sandusky
Portsmouth
Ashtabula
Chagrin Fal's .
‘Pomeroy
Youngstown
Yellow Springs
Tifﬁn.

 

The Rockland County S. P. C. A.
The Elmira S. P. C.A . .
Broome County S. P. C.
The Ulster CountyS P. C. A.

Jefferson County S. P. C. A.

Mohawk and Hudson Ri 1ve er Humane Society
The Niagara County S. P. C.

The Cortland County S. P. C. A. .
The Stevens S. P. C. A. of Rome, N. Y.

The Cayuga County S. P. C. A.

The North Carolina S. P. C. Af“
North Carolina S. P. C. C. & A,

The Ohio Humane Society

Cleveland Humane Society".

The Canton Humane Society .
Humane Society of City of Columbus, Ohio .
Toledo Humane Society* .

The Trumbull County Humane Society .
Dayton, Ohio, Humane Society P. C. C. & A
Athens S. P. C. A. .

The Erie County Humane Society.

Scioto County Humane Society .
Ashtabula County Humane Society . .

The Chagrin Falls Humane S P. C. C & A.
Pomeroy Branch Humane Society

The Youngstown Humane Society

Yellow Springs Humane Society.

Seneca County Humane Society

 

12

'86

22
81

 

.40
728
1210

.10

 

 

'1 Includes work of its own agents throughout the State.

 

"1'55

239
105

 

 

 

 

5
487 26

 

 

141

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

6E1O.ZCBﬁtihﬁEdf ‘ 7‘ A A " | '

 

‘ Chardon '. . . .
Norwalk . . . .
New Lexington .
Lima . . . . .
OREGON.
Portland
PENNSYLVANIA.
Philadelphia

The Chardon Humane Society . . . . . . 2 .
HuronCountyHumaneSociety . . . . .
Humane Society of New Lexington . . . . ' I . . .. 2 . . .. .
Lima Branch of Ohio Humane Society .3 . . 7 22 3 55

The Oregon Humane Society . . . . . . 12 73 19 12 390

The PennsylvaniaS. P. C. A. . . . . . 276 3013 I68 53 165 21783

Philadelphia
Lancaster
York .
Pittsburg .
West Chester .
Reading .
Williamsport .
Scranton
Erie . .
Wilkesbarre
Altoona .
RHODE ISLAND.
Providence
Newport .
SOUTH CAROLINA.
Charleston .
Columbia
Greenville
Spartanburg
TENNESSEE.
Memphis
Chattanooga
Knoxville

Nashville
Jackson .

 

Women’s Pennsylvania S. P. C. A.
Lancaster S. P. C. A. . . . .

The York County S. P. C. A

Western Pennsylvania Humane SOciety*
Chester C. Aux”yVVomens Br. Pa. S. P. C. A.
Berks County S. P. C. A . . .
Lycoming County S. P. C. A.

Lackawanna Br. of Pennsylvania S. P. C. A.
Northwestern Pennsylvania Humane Society.
Luzerne Co. Humane Assoc’n P. C. C. & A.
The Central Pennsylvania Humane Society* .

Rhode Island S. P. C. A.* .
Newport Branch Of Rhode Island S. P. C. A. *

The South Carolina S. P. C. A. .
Richland County, South Carolina, S. P.
Greenville Branch of So. Carolina S. P.
The Spartanburg S. P. C. A. . . .

Tennessee S. P. C. A. & C.
Chattanooga Humane Society

Knox County Humane Society. .
Nashville Humane Society . . . . .
Madison County Humane Society . .

(1'2;
c. A.

 

 

322
10

ZII

 

223
29

233
65

110

20

97

45

 

20

109

I2

19
15

125
I6

 

 

 

c.0-

 

 

820
I 179

' iiéé
2386
2 5o

244
277

4667
79

265

35
22

 

142




 

TEGxAs. r f
alveston . . . . The Galveston S. P. C. A. . . . . . . . . l 22 I . . ..
- 57 7 3
Waco . . . . . . . . . II 37 4 7 12 4I
Austm . . .....
UTAH.
0 Salt Lake City . .
VERMONT.

The Texas Humane Society
Austin Humane S. P. C. A.

Utah Humane Society.

 

BRITISH No.

Chester . . .
Brattleborough
Rutland . . .
Burlington
Chester
Randolph
Manchester

VIRGINIA.

Richmond
Norfolk .
Portsmouth
Lynchburg

\VASHINGTON.

Tacoma .
Seattle

WEST VIRGINIA.
Wheeling

WISCONSIN.

Milwaukee .

Halifax
Hamilton
Kingston
Montreal
Ottawa
Quebec .-

A MI: R I CA

 

Vermont Humane Society.

The BrattleboroughS .P. C. X.
Society P. C. A.. . .
Vermont S P C. X .
Chester Humane Society

The Randolph Humane Society
Manchester S. P. C. X.

Richmond S. P. C. X.

NOIfolk S. P. C. A.

\V oman’ s Humane Society of Virginia
The Lynchburg Humane Society

Tacoma S. P. C. A. .
Seattle Humane Society

West Virginia S. P. C. A.
Wisconsin Humane Society*

The Nova Scotia S. P. C.
Hamilton S. P. C. A.*
Kingston Humane Society
The Canadian S. P. C. A
Ottawa Humane Society
Quebec S. P. C. A.

 

 

 

 

10

II

15
3o

 

 

 

 

 

 

l\

 

 

 

 

I\I\

 

ooooo

.....

 

I43

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

BRITISH No. AMERICA.—
Continued.
St. John, N. B. . New Brunswick S. P. C. A.

12 708

O\
N

Toronto Humane Society .
Fredericton S. P. C. A.‘*"
Moncton . . . . Moncton S. P. C. A.
Winnipeg . . . . Winnipeg S. P. C. A.

St. John’s, N’ﬂd . . < St. John’s S. P. C. A.

Toronto. . . . .
Fredericton . . .

I
I7 I 123
. L...
|

~01

 

 

 

Mﬁﬁ

 

I 44




 

STEEL GAS TANK FOR THE HUMANE
DESTRUCTION OF SMALL ANIMALS.

Sec [[[ztsz’nz/ionr, pagw 73 mm’ 74.

The dimensions of this tank are as follows: length, ten feet;
width, ﬁve feet; and height, four feet six inches. A trap-door
is provided through which the animals are put into the tank,
and four heavy plate—glass windows light the interior. Ordinary
illuminating gas is admitted through an inch and one—quarter
pipe, and when the tank is to be emptied escapes through a
six—inch pipe. As shown by the'illustration on page 74, «it
truck or cage rests on the bottom of the tank on tracks, the
latter withdrawing from the tank so that the cage can be moved
outside to facilitate the handling of the bodies of dead animals.

The method of destroying small animals by illuminating
gas was adopted by the Society after a thorough investigation
of other known methods, and is to be recommended from hu~
mane and sanitary standpoints. Illuminating gas produces
anaesthesia or insensibility, and death follows almostinstan-
taneously and is absolutely painless. Charcoal fumes cause
asphyxia or suffocation, and the use of charcoal is not recom-
mended for that reason.

IO

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

To Mose wao may feel disposed l0 a’oaate éy W ILL 10
Me knew/em oéjeets of ler Soezez‘y, Me following

is saémz’z‘z‘ea’ as a form .-

Form of Begaesz.‘ of Personal Properly.

I give and bequeath unto “The American Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals,” a corporation created by
and existing under the laws of the State of New York, the sum

of ......................................... . ............ dollars, to be applied to
the uses of said corporation.

Form of Dew'se of Real Properly.

I give and devise unto “The American SoCiety for the Pre-
vention of Cruelty to Animals,” a corporation created by and
existing under the laws of the State of New York, all [here insert
description of property], together with all the appurtenances,
tenements, and hereditaments thereunto belonging or in any Wise
appertaining, to have and to hold the same unto the said cor-
poration, its successors and assigns, forever.

 

 




   

         

Donn-c.
..".....".9'.=ll..c..'...lllllllaillsaleaagaaaaeaaman.unannaanunaaa:aanraannnllnannlnnnnnnunoun-nannual-nnnnnnnngnupgg ..
I .I...’....

DONATION BLANK. ,

.................................... 190 __________

To JOHN P. HAINEs, President,
The American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals,

Madison Avenue and 26th Street, New York.
Sir: _
Enclosed Please ﬁnd my CheCk for $ ............................................... , a donation to the general funds

of the Society.

Name

Address ..........................................................................................................................

This subscription carries with it no obligation for subsequent years.
Donations will be acknowledged in the Annual Report.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 
 
 

MEMBERSHIP IN THE SOCIETY.

Attention is again called to the fact that this Society receives no funds from the pllblic treasury, its
revenues being derived mainly from members’ dues, voluntary donations and bequests. The SCOPE 0f
the work could be greatly extended if the Society had a larger ﬁxed income such as is derived from mem-
bership dues and interest on permanent funds. An urgent appeal is therefore made for new members,
and those who are already identiﬁed with the cause of animal protection in this way are earnestly re-
quested to interest their friends in the work with a view to having them become members of the Society.

The laws of the State of New York provide as follows : “ 7716,0012.“ force of ”’3 C37} Of New Yor/e,
as well as of (11/ 05/1” pﬁu‘gs w/zg/‘g police organizations exist, s/za/l, as occasion may require, aid z‘lze Society,
#3 ‘MEMBERS, or agenz‘s, in Me enforcement of all laws w/zic/z are now, or may nereafz‘er [)e, enacted for
1716 profecz‘ion of dam!) animals.”

an.-.-a=uu=asuuh “<—
3.3!.E‘ID-iID.CHU-IwwI...‘.GN‘U-w--uun--‘ﬂ'...l.......-‘B.ﬂ--.-BH.I-.l..ﬂ'ﬂIII-.n'UIH'HFUEUUBHH'I-I..-..-l-....--.=-‘

To JOHN P. HAINES, President.
Sir.-

Please add the following names to the roll of members of The American Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals :
NAME ADDRESS

.............................................................................................................

(If proposed by a member, please sign here) ______________________________________________________________________________________________________
Annual Membership. $5. > Life Membership, $100.

Members receive all publications of the Society gratuitously.

 




 

._,‘,__-_;
\‘

—------——~¢’ -~*—v -

 

 

 

 

 

'u‘h'n' A.

AA.

 

 

 

 

 

 




TIIE AMERIcAN SOCIETY

F O R T H E

PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS

INCORI’ORATED BY THE STATE OF NEW YORK
APRIL 10, 1866.

TH I RTY-FO URTH ANNUAL REPORT

FOR THE YEAR ENDING DECEMBER 31, 1899

JOHN P. HAINES, PRESIDENT.

 

HEADQUARTERS OF THE SOCIETY:

MADISON AYENI'E AND 26TH STREET

NE“7YORK

1900

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

HEADQUARTERS OF THE SOCIETY, MADISON AVENUE A1\D
TW NTY SIXTH STREET, NEW YORK

 

 




 

9

appropriation, we are actively carrying on our propaganda by
means of Humane Literature. During the past year our efforts
have been extended to the delivery of Illustrated Lectures in
schools and before gatherings of liverymen, wagon—drivers, and
others who have the charge of horses. In some of the Churches
also Special Sermons have been delivered with good effect, and
it may be reasonably hoped that this important means of inﬂu—
ence will be greatly extended hereafter. At the present time I
am in direct communication with the authorities of the Public
Schools of New York, and, before another year, I hope and
believe that the protection and humane treatment of animals
will be promoted in all the schools of the “ Greater New York ”
as it is in the schools of the city of London. Naturally our
methods cannot be identical with those of the Royal Society,
but we shall certainly be indebted to our English brethren for
many invaluable hints and suggestions which their noble and ,
successful work supplies.

After a mere mention of the fact that several new societies
have been established during the past year in this country, I
have to acknowledge the deplorable and discouraging fact that
the execrable practice of vivisection in the presence of children
has actually occurred in the United States. In one instance a
young medical student, at the request of the principal of a high
school for girls, vivisected a dog in the presence of a class of
young children. I have no language in which to express my
utter detestation of such a crime; but I would call your atten-
tion to the shocking circumstance that it was committed in the
presence of young girls. In another case a woman teacher dis-
sected a cat in the presence of young children.

It has been alleged that the practice of dissection and vivi—
section is required or encouraged by the State Board of
Regents. Here, again, the female element appears, and I
would impress you with its dangerous importance. I observe
with pain and alarm the special dangers to which women are
exposed when they enter upon certain lines of work in which
it may be necessary for men to engage, but which are certain

 




 

SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OI“ CRUELTY TO IANI‘MALS.

THE YEAR ENDING DECEMBER 31, 1899.

C11.

By Disbursements from January I, 1899, to date: General
Maintenance, including Light, Fuel, Postage, Sal-

aries, etc. . . . . $39,419 93
“ Equipment and Maintenance of\ e\\ \o1l<, I3rool<l5n,

and Richmond Shelters . . . . . . . . . . . 33,840 64
“ Brooklyn Ofﬁce: Maintenance . . . . . . . . . 8,486 06

A
a

Ambulance House, New York : Maintenance, including

Feed, Food, and Medicine for Homeless and Aban-

doned Animals . . . . . . . . . . . . 415 74
Ambulance House, I)1ool<ly1i: Maintenance, including

Feed, Food, and Medicine for Homeless and Aban-

c.
p.

 

doned Animals . . . . . . . . 1,748 23
“ Repaiis to Real Estate, Ixent,Ii1te1est,laxes, and In-
su1ance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6,870 03
“ Legal Expenses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6,671 63
“ Fountain Account . . . . . . . . . . . . . 414 58
“ Humane Literature . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4,735 67
“ Stationery, Printing, Annual Report, etc. . . . . . 1,435 50
“ Ullmann Estate: Mrs. Thayer . . . . . . . . . 700 00
“ Lectures, Illustrated. . . . . . . . . . . . . 716 61
“ Library Account . . . . . . . . . . . 188 95
“ Cash balance, Dec. 31, 1899:
I Cash on deposit in Union Irust C0. and
Checks on hand . . . . . . . . $247 18
Cash in Drawer . . . . . . . . . 167 67 $414 85
$106,058 42

 

of the Treasurer of The American Society for the Prevention
Society’s books and vouchers.

JAMES GRANT WILSON,
WILLIAM FAHNESTOCK,

2

i Auditing C ommittec.

 




 

 

THE FOLLOWING ARE SOME OF THE MORE
IMPORTANT CASES PROSECUTED DURING
THE YEAR 1899:

Jan. 2.

Jan. 4.

Jan. 4.

Jan. 5.

For beating a horse on the head with butt end of whip
and kicking the animal in a cruel manner Patrick Cryan was
sentenced, by the Court of Special Sessions, First Division,
Judge Jacobs presiding, to pay a ﬁne of thirty—ﬁve dollars
or be imprisoned for ten days. In passing sentence the
judge warned Cryan that if he was ever arraigned again
before the Court on a similar charge he would be sen—
tenced to the penitentiary for a long term.

“Samuel Levenstein, you are ﬁned twenty-ﬁve dollars
or, in default of payment, be imprisoned for ﬁve days upon
your plea of guilty of beating your horse on the head and
body with the butt end of a whip,” was the sentence imposed
by Judge Jacobs upon the defendant above named. The
animal was one that had seen better days, evidently an old
carriage horse that had outserved its usefulness in the
fashionable world, and had been sold to end its life hauling a
junk or vendor’s wagon.

For driving a horse, attached to a loaded wagon, while
lame, sore, and feeble, Louis Kasten was sentenced to pay a
ﬁne of twenty-ﬁve dollars or to be imprisoned for ﬁve days
by the Court of Special Sessions, Judge Holbrook presiding.
The horse was so lame and weak it could hardly walk to the
veterinary hospital, where it was taken for treatment andrest.

Judge Lambden, of New Rochelle, sentenced William ’
Shields to pay a ﬁne of ﬁve dollars for cruelly beating a horse
with the butt end of a whip. The punishment did not ﬁt the
offense, which was aggravated by the insolent manner in
which the prisoner treated several ladies who remonstrated
and begged him to desist ill—treating the animal.

 




 

 

March 6.

March 6.

March 6.

March 8.

a :3
OJ

Holbrook presiding. Tadovano had compelled a horse to
drag a heavily loaded cart while the animal was suffering
from terrible sores on the back and breast unprotected from
the harness. The horse was sent to a veterinary hospital for
treatment.

Pasqual Dioso was sentenced to pay a ﬁne of thirty-ﬁve
dollars, or, in default of payment, to ten days’ imprisonment
by the Court of Special Sessions, Judge Holbrook presiding,
for compelling a very lame horse to haul a loaded truck from
out of an excavation. The horse, in addition to being lame,
was sore, weak, and feeble.

Thomas Gillen was arrested for beating, in a cruel manner,
a horse that was unable to haul a heavily loaded vehicle.

”The weapon used by Gillen was a heavy iron trace—chain,

and every time he struck a blow it made a large welt on the
animal’s back. Gillen’s defense was that he got angered be-
cause the horse could not pull the load. He was sentenced
to pay a ﬁne of ﬁfteen dollars or be imprisoned ﬁve days in
the City Prison by the Court of Special Sessions, First
Division.

For compelling a horse to walk through the city streets
while suffering from lameness caused by two of the feet hav—
ing almost rotted off from disease, David Liarni was con—
victed by the Court of Special Sessions of the First Division,
Judge Holbrook presiding, and sentenced to pay a ﬁne of
two hundred dollars or be imprisoned for sixty days. The
veterinary surgeon testiﬁed that the horse was walking on
the bones of the leg. This is another case where it is alleged
the horse was to have been slaughtered for human food. The
animal was humanely destroyed.

“ I never saw a lamer horse in my life,” testiﬁed a witness
in the Court of Special Sessions, First Division, at the trial
of Pascal Nicoti, who was charged with cruelty to animals.
It appears from the testimony that the horse mentioned was.
attached to a cart, and was very lame in the nigh fore foot
caused by a large open wound on the fetlock joint. With
every step the animal took. matter and blood oozed from the
wound, causing great physical pain and suffering. The de—
fendant plead ignorance of the laws as a justiﬁcation. He

 




 

 

April 12.

April 12.

April 12.

41

before the other. At intervals Edel brought down upon the
animal’s body the lash of a heavy whip, but the helpless horse
had not strength enough to respond. Edel, when arrested,
was very indignant at being stopped, and threatened the
ofﬁcer with a suit for damages. The horse, when released
from the shafts, fell to the ground and had to be taken to
the veterinary hospital. The defendant was convicted in the
Court of Special Sessions, First Division, Judge Hinsdale
presiding, charged with cruelty to animals and sentenced to
pay a ﬁne of twenty—ﬁve dollars, or, in default of payment,
to be imprisoned for ten days.

John Bosto was arraigned in the Court of Special Sessions,
First Division, Judge Hinsdale presiding, charged with
biting a piece out of a horse’s lip. The brutal offense was
witnessed by several people, who caused the arrest of Bosto.
When arraigned before the Court he said in his defense that
the horse was trying to bite him, to which one of the trial
justices replied: “It is a pity the animal did not succeed.”
Bosto was sentenced to pay a ﬁne of twenty—ﬁve dollars or to
be imprisoned for ten days.

William Beckler was convicted in the Court of "Special
Sessions, First Division, Judge Hinsdale presiding, for
kicking a horse in a brutal manner. It appears from the evi—
dence that the horse while going down a steep incline slipped
and fell, and Beckler, who was seated in the wagon at the
time, was nearly thrown out. This made him angry; and
standing upon the platform of the vehicle, he drove the heel
of his boot in the back of the horse with all his force, causing
the animal great physical pain and suffering. He was sen—
tenced to pay a ﬁne of ten dollars, or, in default of payment,
to be imprisoned for ﬁve days.

Alphonso Deluca was arrested while in the act of beating,
in a cruel manner, a poor, old, worn—out horse. The animal,
which could hardly stand upon its feet, was harnessed to a
wagon partly loaded with merchandise. Several people re-
monstrated with Deluca, but without avail, and he continued
the cruelty until arrested by a police ofﬁcer, who appeared
on the Scene just at the moment. When arraigned for trial
in the Court of Special Sessions, First Division, Deluca said

the horse was lazy and he had a right to make it go. Pre~

 

 




U l“ l“ I C E R O I“

1112;) 11\U\ 12H .1”

./\/1‘141I, AKA‘VJI
TY

- - .14. L,L ‘

SOCI]

4‘
J

 

July 26.

July 31.

Aug. 9.

Aug. 12.

Aug. 14.

Aug. 21.

49

in a cruel manner, then burying the animal, while still alive,
in the yard. The Court was shocked at the brutal act, and
sentenced the defendant to pay a ﬁne of ﬁfty dollars.

Christ Bitting was convicted in the Court of Special Ses-
sions, Second Division, Judge Keady presiding, of having
thrown a live dog into a furnace ﬁre. The magistrates were
reluctant to believe a human being could be guilty of such an
atrocious act of cruelty, yet the circumstances connected with
the case, supplemented by the testimony of eye-witnesses,
convinced the Court of the guilt of the defendant, and he was
sentenced to pay a ﬁne of one hundred dollars, or, in default
of payment, to serve three months in the County Jail.

Thomas Mooney put an iron chain in the mouth of a
horse and then jerked it in a cruel and inhuman manner,
thereby injuring the jaw and causing the animal great physi-
cal pain and suffering. The defendant was convicted in the
Court of Special Sessions, Second Division, Judge Foraker
presiding, and sentenced to imprisonment for ﬁfteen days in

the County Jail.

James Bogler was convicted and sentenced to pay a ﬁne
of twenty-ﬁve dollars by the Court of Special Sessions,
Second Division, Judge Fitzgerald presiding, for compelling
a team of horses to draw an ice wagon loaded to its fullest
capacity while both animals were suffering from sores on the
breast unprotected from the harness. One of the horses was

also very lame.

Frank Casleato was convicted in the Court of Special Ses-
sions, Second Division, Judge Flemming presiding, of hav-
ing stabbed a horse in the nose with a knife. The defendant
tried to justify the offense by saying that he “ thought the
horse was going to bite him.” He was sentenced to be im-

prisoned in the County Jail for ten days.

Philip Murray was sentenced to pay a ﬁne of ten dollars
by Judge Flemming, of the Court of Special Sessions, Second
Division, upon conviction of having beat a horse over the
body with a whip in a cruel and inhuman manner.

Guy Langmade and Verno Wright, of Machias, New
York, were charged with pouring turpentine over the body of

 




 

 

MANUAL OF

KINDNESS TO ANIMALS.

For use in Schools, Sunday-schools and
Families.

 

“Is well calculated to engage the child’s attention, and teach
it to be humane to all living creatures.”——ZVew Yer/c Trz'émze.

“ It aims to teach the utility of animals as an argument against
their torture, and the preface suggests that individuals are cruel
‘ through want of thought, rather than want of heart.’ ”

———1Vew Yer/c Hera/d.

“ Admirably constructed to impress on the youthful mind kind
treatment to all the brute creation.”—S/>z'rz't 0f t/ze Times.

“ Perusal of its pages warrants us in predicting for it a most
useful career.”—— T/ze Rider and Driver.

“ It is a useful and suggestive book for children, and it con-
tains some instruction which a large number of adults are much
in need Of.”—-—New Yer/c [Var/(Z.

“ The little manual should ﬁnd lodging in the living-room of
all families where there are young children, or where horses,
cats, dogs, rabbits, birds, cows, poultry, gold-ﬁsh or other
animals are kept for use or amusement.”—P/zz'laa’e/p/zze Ledger.

 

Sample copies, four cents each.

 

Published at Headquarters of the Society. Madison
Ave. and 26th St., New York

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SOME INS’I‘RUMEN'I‘S OF TORTURE SEIZEI) IN

 

 

 




 

 

STEEL GAS TANK FOR THE HUMANE DESTRUCTION OF SMALL ANIMALS

Shelter for Animals, 102d Strget and East River, New York. (See description, page 159)

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

     

    

81

CAYUGA COUNTY.

The Cayuga County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals.

Incorporated October 26, I896.
Anbnrn.
F. C. LADD, President. GEO. A. BREWSTER, Sec.

—_—__.

NORTH CAROLINA.

The North Carolina Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals.

I7 Paragon Building, Asheville.
HANFORD N. LOCKWOOD, A. THOMPSON, Secretary.

President.

North Carolina Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children
and Animals.

Wilmington.
ALEX. S. HEIDE, President. F. A. LORD, Secretary.

OHIO.
The Ohio Humane Society.

24 East Ninth Street, Cincinnati.
BENJAMIN C. SMITH, Pres. MISS CECILIA RITTER, Sec.

Cleveland Humane Society.
Cleveland.
GEX. JAMES BARNETT, Pres. II. A. GARFIELD, Secretary.

The Canton Humane Society.
Fraser Bloc/e, Canton.
W. \V. CLARK, President. CHARLES R. FRAZER, Sec.

Humane Society of the City of Columbus, Ohio.
Columbus.
IIIIJUS E STONE, President. FRANK P. JACKSON, Sec.

 




    

    

89

WASHINGTON.
Tacoma Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

C liamber of Commerce Building, Tacoma.
C. P. CULVER, President. H. K. MOORE, Secretary.

Seattle Humane Society.

Seattle.

ROGER S. GREENE, President. MRS. LAURENCE GRON-
LUND, ' Secretary.

WEST VIRGINiA.
West Virginia Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
WhCC’lil/l g.
MR5. JOHN K. LIST, President. ———————— , Secretary.

 

WISCONSIN.

The Wisconsin Humane Society.
495 M iltvaakee S ti'eet, Milwaukee.
DR. GEO. D. LADD, President. Miss ADRIA L. BLAISDELL,
Secretary.

The State Society has Branches at the following places:

Oshkosh, Sheboygan, Port Washington, Tomah, Stoughton, Hart-
land, Plymouth, Janesville, Beloit, Green Bay, Ashland, Waukesha,
Delavan, La Crosse, Sturgeon, West Superior, Monroe, Fond du Lac,
Manitowoc, Racine, Berlin, VVausau, Madison, Tomahawk, Marinette,
Antigo, Eau Claire, Hartford, and Columbus. '

' BRITISH NORTH AMERICA.
The Nova Scotia Society for the Prevention of Cruelty.

79 Graiwille S treet, Halifax.
CHARLES STUBBING, Pres. R. H. MURRAY, Secretary.

Hamilton Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Hamilton.
ADAM BROWN, M.P.. Pres. HENRY MCLAREN, Secretary.

 

 

 




 

G 15121111111;—
Hamburg
Hanox er
Heide .
Hilchenb; 1cl
Hirschbe1g
Homburg
Itzehoe
Jena
Karlsruhe
Kattowitz
Kiel .
Koenigsberg
Landshut .
Langenschwalbach
Lauban
Laugensalza
Leipzig
Liegnitz
Liibeck .
Ludwigshafen
Liineburg
Malchin
Mainz
Meissen
Miilheim .
Munich

Munster

Neisse . .
Neubrandenburg
Neumiinster
Neustrelitz . .

Continued.

mmmmmmmmmmqmmmmmmm‘ﬂvmmmz

El

 

P. A.

in Hanover

ambm 0 S
A

U<

in Kiel.

in Koenigsberg .

'<i:j wé

in Langenscliwalbacli

of Leipzig
of Liegnitz
P. A.

.A.
.A.
S.
..A
A.
.A.

inMainz . . . .

o

phalian S. P. Wild Birds 2
an Domestic Fowls and A. S

<<<<<<<oo<o<<ooxo<0o<<<aw<o<
mmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmammmmmmmg

.A.ofNei1brandenburg
eustrelitz S. P C. A

Q—iD—«Q—i

 

 

 

.P1of. C. F. Schulz
. Gen.

Count V011 \Val dcrsee.
Dr. Lammers

H. Feldmann

Carl Wagner, H.

Heinr. Mockel

I. H. Raasche

Dr. Robrig.

F. Kaeﬂein

Rabbi Cohn .

. Franz Schuck
. Gen. Brausewetter.

von Fuchs Bimbachs
Schutt

 

. Hermann Wende.

Fischer

. Dr. Rob. Klee .

. Dr. Otto Giithling.

. Dr. F. L. G.Wich111ann.
. Sebast. Ledere

H. Reinecke. ..
Gustav J. Hamdorf
Prof. Schlenger

C. Ed. Bluhm
—— Schmidt
Count Houlin

Prof. Dr. H. Landois
Pohlis .

 

:Rev. Mr. Steinfiihrer
. E. Messtorff
. B. Praefcke

 

 

l
l .
. DI‘.

. Max Rabe.

. Heinrich Reinisch.
. F. F. Vollers.

. Charles Weingart.

. Aug. Lofﬂer.

. E. Thiel.

. Dr. L. Schaum.

. Cam. F. Schaufuss.
. Ernst Schiirmann.

. M. Bunhard.
. Aug. Bollmann.

. Rev. Hirschberger.
. O. Mahn.

. —— Kock.

. M. Reckow.

_ P11. Bauer.
Emil Meyer.

. —— Sierds.

. W. Schweissfurth.
. R. Schwandt.

. Heinr. Schudt.

. M. A. Brodersen.

. K. Becker.

. —— Rudiger.

. Rev. Kloppenburg.
. R. O. Hasperg.

. —— Saurer.

. —— Anacker.

Hanke.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




SWLULN

 

Oxebro
Skdfde
Stockholm
Stockholm
Stockholm
Strengnas
Stromstadt
Sundsvall
Tjorn .
Umea . .
Upsala .
Vexio
Visby

Wimmerbiy

SWITZERLAND.

Aargau .
Basle .
Berne
Bienne
Burgdorf
Chur . .
Fribourg
Geneva

Langenthal

Lausanne
Lucerne
Neuchatel
Nyon

Rolle
Soleure

Cuutimu’d.

SP
.S....PA.
.SP.CA.

Bienne

S..PA.

 

\.’\“'\./(,i {/5

. Orebm S. 1’

Skbfde s P AAf
Stockholm Branch S. P. A.
Suedish S. P. A.

Northern S. P. A.
Vexio S. P. A.
Visby S. P. A.

.S. P. A.

. Swedish VVomen’s Branch .
. S. P. C. A. of Strengnas .
.S. P. A. .

.S. P. A. .

.Tjorn S. P. A. .

. Western Territory S. P. A.

.C. A.i 1n the Canton of Aargau

S. Prot. A.

. Union of Soc’ 3 P. C A. in Chur
. Fribourg S. P. C. A.

. Vaudoise S. Prot. A.

.S. P. A.

. S. P. C. A. in Langenthal
.S. P. A.

Neuchatel S. Prot. A. .

S. Prot. A. of Vaud. in
Canton of Nyon

P. A. .

P. A. .

 

'thé ‘1

 

 

.J. Wahlﬁsk
. H. Uggla

von Rosen

Count G.

. Baron Carl C. von Bonde
. Mrs. Josephine Varenius
. K. U. Nylander. . . .

Sven Ljunggren
Aug. Bystedt

. Carl Ljungman .

Prof. C. N. Pahl
Henrik Akerstrom

. L. Montclius
. O. Carlstedt

Fr. Ljung

A. Keller—Jaggi

. B. Siegmund .

. Albt. Diirheim

. Henri Thalmann
. Joseph Rey

. Maj.
. Rev. Charles de Raemy

. Ed Muller— Jaggi
.A. Crétenoud . .
. Rob. Marbacher
. Rev. Mr. Lardy

Hartm. Caviezel

Eugene Gamboni

. —— Reymond
. T. Arnold

i l"

Dr. 1‘). Adlcz. .9!

.1Atel Th. Wahlstrom.

. A. E. Ljundberg.

. Baron Ludwig von Platen.
. P. G. Isberg.

. T. Nordstrom.

. A. Wiklund.

. H. Salvin.

. Y. A. Kallstrom.

. Dr. P. B. Regnér.

. A. G. Florén.

Frans Berggren.

i Alfr. Rosval.
. J. P. Johanson.

 

105

R.ud Hunziker.
Dr Hans Keller.

.lErnile Kaeser-Duby.
. Albert Chopard.

. Dr. H. Stickelberger.
. Dr. Michel Valer.

. Prof. Otto Moser.

. Eugene de Bude.

. F. Schneeberger.

. E. Chavannes.

. Dr. Bucher.

. Eugene Courvoisier.

. Louis Maquelin.

. —— Schopfer.
. Prof. Servert.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

   
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   

113

TIOGA. COUNTY.

BEEBE, CLARK w ........................................ Candor
STEELE, CHARLES R .................................. Apalachin

ULSTER COUNTY.

ELSWORTH, ELIJAH ................................... Kingston
OSTRANDER, DE WITT W ........................... Clintondale

WARREN COUNTY.

BEVINS, STANLEY H ....... Chestertown
BURNETT, WILLIAM H ............................ Lake George
GRAY, MILO J ........................................ Glens Falls
GRIFFING, E. T .......................................... Luzerne
HARRIS, E. S ......................................... Lake George
SEXTON, JESSE E ......................................... Hague

WASHINGTON COUNTY.

JAKEVVAY, FRED ................................... _..Fort Miller
BICFARLAND, WILLIAM M ............................... Salem
SCOTT, GEORGE H .................................... Whitehall
WAYNE COUNTY. _
.AGETT, WILLIAM W ...................................... Lyons
COOPER, BYARD .......................................... Clyde
DAVENPORT, CLARENCE F ............................. Huron
RICH, JOSEPH C .......................................... Marion

WESTCHESTER COUNTY.

ANGEVINE, GILBERT ] .............................. Mt. Vernon
B:\CON, MARSHAL L ................................. Tarrytown
BfXRR, JOHN H ......................................... Irvington
BEALE, REUBEN F ...................................... Crugers
BERBERT, FREDERICK .................... Hastings-on-Hudson
BRIGHT, MARSHAL H ................................ Tarrytown
BLVSSARD, JOSEPH ................................ New Rochelle
COLLINS, HIRAM J .................................. Mt. Vernon
FARLEY, JOHN M ................................... White Plains

FLINT, F, W ........................................... Larchmont,

 

 

 

 

 




 

  

Cohen, Stanley A.
Cohn, Mrs. Louie H.
Colby, Miss May Colgate
Colby, William Colgate
Cole, Mrs. Hugh L.
Colgate, A. W.
Colgate, Mrs. A. W.
Colgate, James B.
Conner, Mrs. Crowell M.
Constable, W.

Cook, C. F.

Cook, Frank D.
Cooke, Mrs. Laura E.
Corbett, C. H.

Cornell, Hon. Robert C.
Coster, C. H.

Coudert, Hon. Frederic R.
Coutts, Mrs. G. H.
Cowdin, Winthrop

C owles, Alfred A.

Cox, Charles F.
Cramer, L. H.

Credo, Mrs. G.
Crimmins, Thomas E.

C ritten, Miss Mignon
Crosby, Miss M. E.
Crossman, W. H.
Crossmond, Mrs. L. D.
Crowell, Edward B.
Cummings, Robert J.
Cunningham, Miss E. G.
Cunningham, George
Curren, Mrs. Jno. J.
Curtis, Miss Elizabeth B.
Curtis, Mrs. G. W.
Curtiss, Miss Sophia

D

Dailey, Miss May Belle
Dalley, Jr., Henry
Dalzell, Mrs. John D.
Darrell, Edward F.

121

Darrigrand, Alexander A-
Darrigrand, Miss Fannie
Darrigrand, Miss Lucie
Davidson, Miss Clara
Davison, Clarence B.
Day, Mrs. H. M.

De Coppet, H.

De Coppet, Mrs. H.

De Cordova, Alfred
Dehon, Miss M. H.
Dejonge, Louis

Delano, Miss Jean W.
De Luze, Francisco 0..
De Ruiz, Mrs. P. B.

. Despard, Mrs. C. L.

De Witt, William G.
Dick, Mrs. W. B. .
Dieterich, Charles F.
Dillar, W. E.

Dimock, Mrs. J. J.
Ditson, Mrs. C. H.

Dix, S.T.D., Rev. Morgan
Dodge, Marcellus Hartley
Dodge, Sr., Mrs. W. E. .
Dodge, William E.
Doelger, Peter

Doerr, J. B.

Donovan, Dennis
Donovan, Joseph

Dowst, Arthur A.

Drake, John D.

Drake, Miss Mary Hopetom
Drake, Mrs. Charles
Dreis, Miss Elizabeth
Duggin, Mrs. Charles
Dunham, Mrs. Minnie
Dunlop, John

Du Vivier, E. A.
Dyckman, Jack

E

Eaton, Mrs. D. Cady'
Eckstein, Samuel

 
 
   
  

 

 

   
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
   
  
   
  
  
  
   
   
   
   
 
  
  
 
 
    




 

  

\‘ietor, Mrs. George F.
Villard, Henry

Villard, Oswald Garrison
Vogt, Henry
Vollkommer, Joseph
Vorgang, Charles F.

W

\Vade, William D.
\Vagner, Frederick C.
\Vainwright, J. Mayhew
\Valker, Joseph

\Valser, Dr. William C.
\Vandell, Townsend
\Vard, L. B.

\Vard, Mrs. F. A. B.
'\Vard, Jr., Mrs. John Seely
\Varde, J. S.

\Vaters, V.S., Dr. E.
\Veatherbee, Edwin
\Veber, Joseph
\Veekes, Arthur D.
\Veeks, T. W.

XVells, Miss Julia Chester
\Velz, John

\Vendell, Mrs. Gordon
\Verner, Mrs. Henry
\Vestcott, Miss Thalia
VVhalen, Richard
VVharton, Edward R.
\Vhite, Horace

White, Miss May W.
White, Mrs. Jno. J.
White, S. V.

Whiting, Miss Matilda M.
Wicke, William
VVickett, S. G.
Wilhelm, Mrs. Emily

129

Wilkins, Morris

Wilcox, William G.
Willcox, Edwin B.
Williams, Paul F.
Willson, Charles Hill
Wilson, Miss Elizabeth B.
Wilson, Gen. James Grant
Wilson, John M.
Winans, Miss Isabel T.
Winans, Miss S. S.
Wing, L. Stuart

Wing, Mrs. L. Stuart
Winter, George
Winthrop, Mrs. Gren'Ville
Wissel, Andrew

Witte, Charles G.

Wood, Mrs. Henry Duncan
Wood, Mrs. James
Woolley, Edgar W.
Woolverton, William H.
Wooster, Mrs. G. H.
Worden, William W.
Wotherspoon, Henry H.
Wright, Miss Harriet
Wyckoff, Peter

Wyman, Miss Esther

Y

Yeisley, Rev. George C.
Young, Dr. John J.

Z

Zebley, Mrs. John F.
Zittel, Frederick
Zollikofr’er, Mrs. O. F.

  
   
   
 
  
   
    
   

 

  
  
  
    
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
   
    
  
  
 
   




 

 

.. 2 '1 1 <
M. - -‘ .- - < <g—uUWA.

CALI FORNIA.—-C on.

Oakland .
Redlands

Santa Barbara

Santa Cruz
Fresno . .
Sausalito .
COLORADO.
Denver . .

Colorado Springs

CONNECTICUT.
Hartford .
New Haven
Meriden .
DELAWARE.
Wilmington

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA

Washington
FLORIDA.
St. Augustine
Jacksonville
Pensacola
Tampa
GEORGIA.
Augusta .
Atlanta
Brunswick .
ILLINOIS.
Chicago .
Rockford
Quincy . .
Shelbyville .

O

 

l

Oakland S. P. C. A. .
S. P. C. A. of San Bernardino County, Cal. .
Santa Barbara Humane Society. . . . .
Santa Cruz County Humane Society . . . .
Fresno S. P. C. A. . . . . . . . . . .
Marin County S. P. C. A. . . . . . . . .

Colorado Humane Society . .
El Paso Co. Branch Colorado Humane Soc.*

Connecticut Humane Society . . . . .
The New Haven S. P. C. A. . . . . . .
Meriden Humane Society* . . . . . .

DelawareS.P.C.A. . . . . . . ..
The Washington Humane Society}L .

St. Augustine Humane Society. . . . . .
The Jacksonville S. P. C. A.* . . . . . .
Humane Society . . . . .
Hillsborough County S. P. C. A. . . . .

GeorgiaS.P...CA........
Atlanta Humane Society . . . . . .
Brunswick Humane Society . . .

iThe Illinois Humane Society* . '
Winnebago CO. Branch Illinois Humane SOC. *
The Quincy Humane Society .

The Shelby Co. Br. of the Ill. Humane Soc.

 

 

 

56

16
38

68

879

 

93

I...
I...
I 0..
C...

71
30

227

10

858

375
'iéi
2

 

64

I98
18

495

340

 

21

55

228
94

I943

47

 

27

134
23

 

 

* Fiscal year.

1‘ Childlen and

animals.

 

234

26

I422
80

2071




HISTORY.

Prior to the enactment of the statute entitled “ An Act to
Prevent the Cruel and Improper Treatment of Cattle,” intro—
duced in England in july, 1822, by the late highly esteemed
Mr. Martin, the general treatment of animals in all countries
of the world was inhuman.

* “ Whether from ignorance, thoughtlessness, heedlessness,
or wanton brutality, animals were subjected to extreme pain
and torture, and their condition failed to excite the commiser-
ation of the public. The best classes of society contained a few
persons only who openly protested against this cruelty, while
the majority were engaged in divers pastimes that caused
much animal suffering, and regarded with scorn and indigna—
tion any appeal made to them in favor of the brutes. Naturally,
the lower and lowest orders were therefore more or less insen—
sible to the claims of lower animals; taking cue as well as ex—
ample from their betters, they also indulged in cruel sports
and maintained a right in man to behave toward dumb do—
mestic dependents as he pleased. In fact, the protests of ‘
humane people were silenced by ridicule which came from the
platform, the pulpit, and the senate, as well as from the galled
pens of satirists.

“ No better instance can be quoted of the prevailing indiffer—
ence of men in even the highest social position to the feelings
of animals than the mocking treatment of the Peers when
Lord Erskine stood up in the House of Lords, in the early

* From the 74th Annual Report of the Royal Society, London.

 

.; (W
. . ,«52. u‘ it"

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

I46 ,

part of the present century (1811), to ask for justice to the
lower creatures of God. lnsensible alike to his moderate de—
mands and appeals for compassion and mercy to all defenseless
animals that man had pressed into his service, the chamber
broke out into open derision when he argued in favor of their
rights to humane treatment. It is said that loud jeers, vulgar
ejaculations, indecorous demeanor, and even whistling and
cock-crowing were practically the only reply given to the
grand speech of this high—souled man. No wonder, therefore.
that the man in the street ridiculed also, and that callous coach-
men and other persons vented their unrestrained passions on
animals without let or hindrance. The public records of eighty
years ago certainly do show that the friends of the brutes were
few, and their foes many and cruel.

“The most reckless and savage punishment, and the most
disgusting disregard to the bodily sufferings of animals, were
exhibited unconcealed in the highways and streets daily ; fester-
ing sores, discharging wounds, excruciating lameness, and
tottering inﬁrmity called not forth modern devices to evade
public reprobation, and without disguise the lash and goad
worked their bloody inﬂictions. The uncombined efforts of
a few benevolent individuals were no check to these evils; and
hence it became necessary to establish a society which should
unite the friends of dumb animal creatures.

“ The founders of this Society met on the 16th of June, 1824,
and inaugurated the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals, appointed a committee, and conceived the following
plan of operations: '

1. The circulation of suitable tracts gratuitously, or by cheap sale,
particularly among persons intrusted with cattle, such as coach-
men, carters, and drovers.

2. The introduction into schools of books calculated to impress on
youth the duty of humanity to inferior animals.

3. Frequent appeals to the public through the press, awakening more
general attention to a subject so interesting, though too much
neglected.

 




 

I47

4. The periodical delivery of discourses from the pulpit.
5. The employment of constables in the markets and streets; and
6. The prosecution of persons guilty of ﬂagrant acts of cruelty, with

publicity to the proceedings, and announcement of results.

“ Steadily working by the above means, bravely bearing
contumely and overcoming difficulties, the founders became
stronger year after year: subscribers and co—workers gradually
joined their ranks; and a marked improvement slowly mani-
fested itself in the treatment of animals. Then followed the
distinguished patronage of Her Most Gracious Majesty the
Queen, Her Royal Highness the late Duchess of Kent, the
Nobility, and many distinguished Members of both Houses
of Parliament; and in 1840, by command of Her Majesty, the
Society was honored with the preﬁx of ‘Royal.’ Since that
period its progress has been regular, and its achievements en—
couraging, and now it is regarded as a permanently estab—
lished institution, which has outlived ridicule, and secured for
its founders the esteem of good and practical men of this
and succeeding generations.

“ During many years the committee advocated the removal
and enlargement of Smithﬁeld Market. Owing to its agency,
bull—baiting, bull—running, cock-ﬁghting, badger—baiting, and
other wicked sports of a barbarous age have been prohibited
by legal enactments. In 1835 the Society obtained an amend—
ment of Martin’s Act; in 1845 an amendment of the law for
regulating Knackers’ Yards; in 1849 a new and much im—
proved Act for the more effectual Prevention. of Cruelty to
Animals; and in 1854 an Act prohibiting the use of dogs as
beasts of draft or burden throughout England; and recently
many other Acts of Parliament.”

The ﬁrst society organized in America for the protection
of animals was The American Society for the Prevention. of
Cruelty to Animals, its founder and ﬁrst president being the
late Henry Bergh, to whose noble self—sacriﬁces and untiring
energies the cause of animal protection in this country owes

 

"“35:

l“.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

148

its origin. The history of the Society, therefore, is practically
an account of the inception and development of the work of
animal protection in America.

In 1862 Mr. Bergh was appointed Secretary of Legation at
St. Petersburg. While in Russia he found himself on several
occasions constrained to interfere in cases of atrocious cruelty,
and but for his ofﬁcial position he would have been exposed to
personal violence. His attention was thus directed to the sub—
ject of humanity .to the brute creation, and while in London
on his way home in 1865, he made the acquaintance of the
Earl of Harrowby, then president of the Royal Society for
the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, who gave him much
valuable information concerning the operations of that Society
in England. On Mr. Bergh’s arrival at home, he found that
no similar society existed in this country, and he immediately
devoted himself to the establishment of a society for the
United States. At the outset the proposition met with little
encouragement, and, without the assistance of the press, it
might probably have failed. On February 8, 1866, Mr. Bergh
delivered a lecture in Clinton Hall, in which he pleaded his
cause with such force of argument and such warmth of elo—
quent conviction, that expressions of sympathy and offers of
assistance were freely made by persons in attendance. The
press then lent its powerful aid; the lecture was published in
whole or in part in all the great cities of the country; public
sentiment in favor of Mr. Bergh’s movement was quickly
aroused, and on April 10, 1866, “ The American Society for
the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals ” was incorporated by
the Legislature of the State of New York. Among the orig—
inal charter members of the Society were many of the most
eminent citizens of the City and State of New York.

On the 19th of April, in the same year, Mr. Bergh secured
the passage by the Legislature of New York of the ﬁrst law
ever enacted in this country for the protection of animals. It
provided that “ every person who shall, by his act or neglect,
maliciously kill, maim, wound, injure, torture, or cruelly beat

 




 

149

any horse, mule, cow, cattle, sheep, or other animal, belonging
to himself or another, shall, upon conviction, be adjudged
guilty of a misdemeanor.”

On the 22d of April a meeting was held in Clinton Hall for
the purpose of effecting a permanent organization, and at that
meeting the ﬁrst society for the protection of animals in this
country came into active existence. The purpose of the as—
sociation, as set forth in its constitution, was “to provide ef-
fective means for the prevention of cruelty to animals through-
out the United States, to enforce all laws which then were or
might thereafter be enacted for the protection of animals, and
to secure, by lawful means, the arrest and conviction of all
persons found violating such laws.” As a matter of fact, the
only law of that kind then to be found on the statute books of
the States of the Union was that which had been passed by
the Legislature of New York nine days after the incorporation
of the Society. Within twelve months, however, another “ act
for the more effectual prevention of cruelty to animals ” was
passed by the Legislature of the same State; and from" time to
time additions have been made to it, so that there is now
hardly a phase of cruelty which the Society has not the legal
power to prevent within the boundaries of the State of New
York. The legal deﬁnition of the word “animal” now in—
cludes every living creature except members of the human
race, and the words “ torture ” and “ cruelty ” include every
act, omission, or neglect whereby unjustiﬁable physical pain,
suffering, or death is caused or permitted.

ORGANIZATION or OTHER SOCIETIES—PROGRESS OF THE
WORK.

The organization and inﬂuence of The American Society
soon led to the establishment of local societies in all parts of
the Union and in other countries on the American Continent
and elsewhere. The number of local societies incorporated

13% g

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ISO

in the United States is now 222, and in other American nations
21 societies have been established and incorporated since 1866,—
making a total of 243.

The prevention of cruelty to animals has been the beginning
of many other humane organizations. Thus, in 1874, the So—
ciety appeared as prosecutor in a case of cruelty to children,
and it then appeared to be advisable to organize a separate
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children.- This
was done in 1875, under the Presidency of Mr. John D.
Wright; Mr. Henry Bergh becoming Vice-President of the
new society, the ﬁrst of its kind in the world, which has done
so much and such effectively good work in the last twenty—ﬁve
years.

The establishment of these and other organizations has rep-
resented. and increased interest in humane work which has
found a practical expression in the legislation of nearly every
State in the Union. At this date there is not a single State in
which cruelty of any kind is not forbidden by the law, under
stringent penalties for disobedience. Some defects continue
to exist, of course; but, speaking broadly, it may be said that
the laws on this subject are good. What is now required is
that the great mass of the people shall be educated into sym-
pathy with the humanity of the law. That is now the greatest
work of the Society, and it has constant reason to be grateful
for the assistance and encouragement which it receives from
the press, the pulpit, and the judges of the courts.

The abuses growing out of the then prevailing systems of
dog catching and impounding having become so ﬂagrant as
to demand immediate checking, a bill, entitled “ An Act for
the better protection of lost and strayed animals, and for
securing the rights of the owners thereof,” was prepared by
the President of the Society and introduced into the Legisla—
ture of 1894, providing for the abolishment of the city dog
pound, and empowering the Society to carry out the provisions
of the act. This bill became a law on March 8, 1894 (Chap. 1 15,
Laws 1894), and the Society immediately thereupon com—

 




 

I51

menced the erection of a Shelter for Animals at 102d Street
and East River, provided with every accommodation for the
care of animals and their humane destruction.

I11 rescuing the community from the reign of the old dog
catchers, the Society earned the gratitude of the dog owners
of New York, and in 1895, at the request of the Mayor of
Brooklyn, the law was amended (Chap. 412, Laws 1895) so as
to include that city as well. A Shelter was then established in
that city, at the corner of Malbone Street and Nostrand Avenue,
and when Staten Island became a part of the greater City of
New York, a Shelter was also opened on Wave Street, Staple—
ton, Borough of Richmond. .

Much suffering has thus been spared the vagrant, lost, and
abandoned dogs and cats of the city. Unwanted animals are
no longer thrown into the streets, to suffer and die of expo—
sure and starvation, but are given into the care of the Society
and by it mercifully destroyed or placed in good homes.

Through the generosity of kind—hearted people interested in
the work of animal protection, the Society was enabled, in
1896—97, to rear a commodious ﬁreproof building as its perma—
nent Headquarters, adequate to the increased needs of the So-
ciety, and supplied with every facility for carrying on the work
to the best advantage.

Meanwhile the practical work is not neglected. The ofﬁcers
of the Society are clothed with ample police powers. They
wear a distinctive uniform and patrol the streets by day and
by night. They have full power to arrest and prosecute offend-
ers against the laws relating to animals. In addition to the
uniformed police, the Society has nearly two hundred special
agents in different parts of the State, clothed with the same
authority and engaged in enforcing the laws for the prevention
of cruelty. In the Boroughs of Manhattan'and Brooklyn the
Society has ambulances for the removal of injured, sick, and
disabled animals; appliances for the rescue of drowning ani-
mals and animals which have fallen into excavations; and a
patrol wagon which carries with it the necessary apparatus

 




 

152
The ofﬁcial organ of the Society is OUR ANIMAL FRIENDS,
a monthly magazine which is devoted to the cause of human—
ity to all living creatures, and which has an extensive and

and medicines for rendering aid to injured animals in the
growing circulation.

streets.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

AN APPEAL.

An erroneous idea is entertained by many that this Society
is beyond the necessity for further appeals to our benevolent
and generous—hearted people for aid. It receives no appropri-
ations from the city or State, and is dependent upon voluntary
subscriptions, donations, and bequests. The usefulness of the
organization could be largely increased, and the ﬁeld of its
labors greatly extended, if it had a more adequate pecuniary
support. As all know, the objects of the Society are to enforce
the humane laws, to investigate complaints, to care for lost or
abandoned animals, or to destroy them mercifully, to suppress
cruel beating, overloading, and over—driving, and to protect
and assist sick, maimed, and starving animals.

Another prominent object of the Society is the distribution
of humane literature, out of which shall grow not only the kind
treatment of animals, but the higher elevation of our own race.
It may be desirable to state in this connection that during the
past year the Society has published and distributed many
millions of pages of printed matter in the interest of humanity
to animals, and we have had ample reason to know that the
effect has been fully as great as could have been reasonably
hoped for this purpose; and to these ends we earnestly invite
your pecuniary assistance.

The library of the Society contains many valuable books
relating to the brute creation. Contributions of works treating
of animal life are urgently requested. The library is of great

, «asp-ﬁt.“

 




I54

importance and value to the Society in aiding it to carry on the
educational feature which now so largely enters into the work
of animal protection.

Contributions to the Society will be acknowledged in the-
annual report.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

muampw ‘ ' - P '4 ,.

 

 

 

 

 

f

z

 




 

PUBLICATIONS.

In addition to the monthly magazine of the Society, OUR
ANIMAL FRIENDS, and the manual, “ Kindness to Animals,”
referred to in another part of this report, the Society publishes
a number of leaﬂets, among which the following may be men-
honed:

No. I.—-—“ Ten Rules for the Treatment of Animals.” Gives
valuable hints in regard to the treatment conducive to the good
health and happiness of animals.

No. 2.-—-—“ What is Docking?” Points out the absurdities
of the practice, and cites the opinions of the best authorities
proving the cruelty of the operation.

No. 3.——“ Fashion’s Cruelty and Bird Protection.” An able
plea by J. A. Allen, Ph.D., for the preservation of bird life,
now so wantonly and cruelly sacriﬁced in the interest of vain
fashion.

No. 4.——-“ The Dishorning of Cattle an Act of Cruelty.” The
cruelty and fallacy of dishorning graphically set forth in a
755217725 of the famous English dishorning case.

No. 5.———“ Hints for the Dog Days.” Dispels the many ig-
norant and false ideas in regard to rabies and hydrophobia,
and gives valuable information concerning the dog, its ner-
vous disorders, and its care.

No. 6.——“ Rabies and Hydrophobia.” Gives the opinions of
medical men on these diseases, and refers to the Pasteur treat-
ment and the Buisson cure by vapor baths.

These leaﬂets are intended for gratuitous distribution, and
will be forwarded to any address on receipt of postage, as fol—

 

 




156

lows, per packet of 100: N o. 1, six cents ; N o. 2, ten cents ; Nos.
3 and 4, twenty-ﬁve cents; No. 5, ten cents, and No. 6, forty
cents.

Title XVI of the Penal Code, relating to cruelty to animals,
is also published by the Society in pamphlet form, and a copy
will be forwarded to any one interested in the work.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

HOW TO PROCEED AGAINST
' OFFENDERS.

There are two modes Of proceeding, viz.: I. By giving the
offender into the custody Of a policeman, constable, or other
ofﬁcer. II. By the apprehension Of the accused under a
warrant.

BY GIVING THE OFFENDER INTO THE CUSTODY OF AN OFFICER
AUTHORIZED TO MAKE ARRESTS.

When you personally witness an act of cruelty, call the atten—
tion of an Ofﬁcer to the nature Of the Offense, insist on the arrest
of the Offender; if you cannot accompany the accused to the
magistrate, then give your name and address to the Ofﬁcer as a
witness, and be sure to take his number, name, and precinct,
in order that you may compel attention to the case. The law
requires the police throughout this State to aid in the protec—
tion Of dumb animals from injury and abuse; and should any
Ofﬁcer refuse his assistance—which is not likely to occur——
then take the number on his hat or shield, and report the same
to the Society.

II.
BY THE ARREST OF THE ACCUSED UNDER WARRANT.

When you do not personally see the act of cruelty, .01‘ when
you can not procure an Ofﬁcer on the spot, or if the Ofﬁcer

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

158

refuses to act, then obtain the name and address of the offender,
and that painted on the vehicle, if any, and the names and resi—
dences of those who witnessed the act, and lay the facts before
a magistrate.

IN ALL CASES

Make a note of the time when, and the street or place where,
the offense occurred, and also the names and residences of all
persons present and of any others who may be called as Wit—
nesses. If the offense was that of driving a horse or other
animal with galled neck or shoulders, or other wounds, note
the size and location of such wounds—especially if raw, dis—
charging, or in contact with the harness. If the offense was
ﬂogging or beating, note the instrument, the number of blows,
on what part of the body inﬂicted, and the effect, if any, on the
skin of the animal; if overloading, carefully observe the symp—
toms of distress, such as the trembling, falling, unusual perspi—
ration, or exhaustion. Report all cases of mutilation, such as
docking tails of horses, cutting tails or ears of dogs, or any
other torture ; also cases of cruelty in the transporting of sheep,
calves, game, fowls, or other poultry, or animals, while bound
by the legs or otherwise, in any part of this State, either on land
or water. In every instance observe minutely and take down

in writing the facts and details, and also the language of the
offender at the time.

FINALLY.

Complaints or inquiries made to the Society at its head—
quarters, by night or by day, will receive prompt attention; and
.\LL ARRESTS FOR CRUELTY SHOULD BE PROMPTLY REPORTED
THERE, To INSURE A PROPER PROSECUTION OF THE CASE.

 




