 

THE AMERICAN SOCIETY

FOR THE

PREVENTION OE CRUELTY TO ANIMALS

INCORPORATED BY THE STATE OF NEW YORK
APRIL 10, 1866. ‘ -

4‘s

THIRTY—FIFTH ANNUAL REPORT ,_

FOR THE YEAR ENDING DECEMBER 31, 1900

 

JOHN P. HAINES, PRESIDENT.

 

HEADQUARTERS OF THE SOCIETY:

MADISON AVENUE AND 26TH STREET

NEW YORK

1901

 




 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

OFFICERS AND BOARD OF MANAGERS

OF

THE AMERICAN SOCIETY FOR THE
PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO
~ ANIMALS.

President.
JOHN P. HAINES.

Vice-Presidents.

BENJAMIN D. HICKS, PARKE GODWIN,

REV. MORGAN DIX, S.T.D., JOSEPH H. CHOATE,
FREDERIC GALLATIN, ‘ EDWARD A. HAMMOND,
ALFRED WAGSTAFF, JAMES GRANT WILSON,
JOHN CLAFLIN, FREDERIC R. COUDERT.

Executive Committee.

 

BENJAMIN D. HICKS, REV. DAVID H. GREER, D.D.,
JOSEPH H. CHOATE, JOEL B. ERHARDT,
EDWARD A. HAMMOND, WILLIAM H. PARSONS,
JAMES GRANT WILSON, JOHN MASON KNOX,
FREDERIC R. COUDERT, REV. MORGAN DIX, S.T.D.,
WILLIAM FAHNESTOCK, ’ JOHN CLAFUN,
FREDERIC GALLATIN.

Secretary. Treasurer.
JOHN MASON KNOX. WILLIAM FAHNESTOCK.

Counsel. Attorney.
STRONG & CADWALADER. J. MAYHEW WAINWRIGHT.

Superintendent. Assistant Treasurer.

CHARLES H. HANKINSON. JACOB ZELLER.

Veterinary Surgeon.
SAMUEL K. JOHNSON.

 

BROOKLYN OFFICE :
I3 Willoughby Street.

Inspector. ‘ Attorney.
FRANK O. CLARK. GEORGE F. ELLIOTT.

 

 




 

 

 

I

ADDRESS OF THE PRESIDENT.

Ladies and Gentlemen:

With the end of the nineteenth century The American So—
ciety for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals leaves behind it
a record of thirty-ﬁve years of service; and if its achievements
during those thirty—ﬁve years have been less than its members
could have wished, it is at least encouraging to reﬂect that,
until it was established thirty-ﬁve years ago, the animal crea-
tion in the United States of America had no recognized de—
fender. Until that year there were no laws, worthy of the
name, for the protection of animals; the assertion that such
laws were necessary was received here, as it had previously
been in France and England, with outbursts of derision. Now
we enter the twentieth century with an immense change in
this respect. In the State of New York, humane laws have
been enacted which are doubtless often evaded, but which,
when enforced, are sufficient to prevent any and every form of
wanton cruelty. To secure the enactment and enforcement
of these laws our Society has labored through good report and
evil report, sometimes aided, sometimes, though seldom, bit—
terly assailed and seriously hindered by temporary public
sentiment, but with steadily increasing success. What is more
important still, a healthy public opinion has been created.
The same people who once laughed at our work are now so
heartily in favor of our cause as sometimes to desire, and even
to demand, the impossible. Indeed, the popularity of our
crusade has come to be one of our difﬁculties, since ambitious
persons, otherwise inconspicuous, often seek a certain social
recognition and contrive to gain at least a certain public

 




6

 

E
'E notoriety by putting forward ill—conceived plans and visionary
schemes for the protection of animals, and denouncing so-
E . cieties like our own, which long ago learned by experience
E that the success of good wOrks depends upon earnestness
and sobriety, and cannot be achieved by wild clamor, ﬁtful
enthusiasm, or crude experiment. But the best of all proofs of
the progress of animal protection is to be found in the general
enactment of good laws in nearly all the States of the Union,
and in the widespread establishment of local societies devoted
to that cause. There is hardly a city of importance in the
United States in which a society for the prevention of cruelty
to animals does not exist, and the inﬂuence of humane senti—'
ment has been spread abroad so that in many other countries
of the American continent societies of like character and pur—
pose have been formed. With all of these our own Society
has endeavored to maintain relations of helpful friendliness.
Many of them have come to us for counsel and advice or other
‘ l aid, which has never been refused. In short, our own Society,
as the oldest of all societies for the protection of animals in
this country and on this continent, has endeavored not only to
do its large duty in this great metropolis and in the Empire
State, but in every possible way to vindicate its right to be
known as The American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals.

- In the present address I shall not follow my usual practice
. of considering in detail the suggestions and inferences to be
drawn from the summary of statistics which is elsewhere
given.- On that subject I have nothing new to add; but I take
satisfaction in stating that, all things considered, the record
of the past year equals that of any previous year of our histor r
g in the activity and energy with which our work has been con—

E ducted. ‘
’ E I am happy to say that, in the twelve months last past, we
E . . have enrolled 214 new members; so that, after deducting mem—
bers lost by death, withdrawal, and lapses in the payment of
annual dues, our present number is 1,1 19. In point of regular

 

 

' ..,"T~"f77‘.vix"ﬁ'" 'Ex'i-‘ﬂ‘f --i 1“- Wimzs«ymwm.--m

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

7

membership in the Society there is very much to be desired.
We are thankful to have the good will and sympathy, and
sometimes the personal help, of many thousands of citizens;
but our membership, which calls for the contribution of the
small sum of five dollars per annum, represents only a fraction
of our supporters. It ought not to be so, and I do not think
it would be so if each and every member of the Society would
regard it as a duty to secure one or two new members each
year. If they would do so, our revenue from this source alone
would enable us within a few years to extend our operations
into ﬁelds of usefulness into which we are unable at present to
enter. In this connection, also, I think that the proposal of
the Board of Managers to create a “ Century liund " by the
enrollment of friends of our cause who are able and willing
to contribute one hundred‘dollars per annum ought by all
means to be taken up and pressed on to success. I am con—
vinced that among the kind—hearted and humane people of
this city and State there must be many who, if they only
thought of it, would gladly contribute the small sum of one
hundred dollars per annum to the prosecution of our work.
There' are few who realize the magnitude of our operations
or who pause to think that such operations cannot be carried
on without a large expenditure of money. It is true, indeed,
that the support of the Society has heretofore depended
mainly upon the larger gifts of the generous and muniﬁcent,
and yet the sum of $10,000, given in one contribution to the
treasury of the Society, is not so good or helpful to the work
of the Society as 100 contributions of $00 each. I therefore
urge that the proposal of the Board of l\/"I'anagers to raise a
Century Fund shall be taken up and pressed with all diligence
until it shall be in successful operation.

Another item of progress which I regard with satisfaction
in the present, and with hope for the coming years, is the
popularity of our Young Defenders’ League. I think it may
surprise some even of the members of the Society to know
that during the year 1900 we have enrolled 26,318 members of

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

8

the League, and it may reasonably be hoped that a large pro-
portion of these will hereafter become earnest and helpful
supporters of the Society.

During the past year it was deemed wise that our Society
:should be represented by an exhibit at the great Exposition
in Paris, as other societies of a similar character had an-
nounced their intention to be. It would hardly become me
to say much of our exhibit. I myself considered it to be as
:modest a representation of the nature and extent of our work
as could well be made with justice to the facts. Indeed, the
chief material of our exhibit consisted of photographs and
documents, which had not been made for the occasion, but
were taken from previous publications or from our own ofﬁce.
Such as it was, however, it made a greater impression than
might have been expected; it was visited and examined with
the greatest interest by the President of the French Republic;
and when the awards came to be made, it was exceedingly
gratifying that our very modest exhibit should have received,
as it did, the Grand P7711“, the highest honor which it was in
the power of the judges to cOnfer upon any exhibitor. Grati—
fying as this high honor was, I confess that I take the greater
pleasure in itas I believe it represents, generously and liber—
ally no doubt,~but still fairly represents, the impression which
our exhibition made upon many visitors in that department of
the Exposition. ‘ _

While the Exposition was in progress, the Thirteenth Inter—
national Congress of Societies for the Protection of Animals
held its sessions, from July I7 to July 21 inclusive, under M. A.
Uhrich, President of the French Society, as its presiding ofﬁ-
cer. It ‘was attended by representatives of many leading so—
cieties throughout the world, and it‘s sessions were of very
great interest; I trust also of some real utility. One of the
pleasant incidents of the meeting was my own privilege in con-
ferring upon M. Uhrich, by direction of our Board of Man—
agers, the silver medal of our Society, which he received with
expressions of the highest gratiﬁcation. The Congress, how-

 




IO

 

l l evil as this, and during the sessions of the Congress I offered
' the following resolution, whichwas' seconded by Mr. Colam
l of the (English) Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
, l i to Animals, and was unanimouSly adopted by the Congress:
“Resolved, That a committee of two be appointed by the
President of the Congress, with full power to communicate
l with the President of the Swiss Republic, and request a modi—
l“ ﬁcation of the Geneva Convention, so that the provisions of
the same shall be extended to enable persons, properly author—
ized, to mitigate or terminate the sufferings of animals badly
wounded on the battleﬁeld.”
,1 The President of the Congress appointed Mr. Colam and
i5 ‘ myself as the committee to communicate with the President
of the Swiss Republic, and, although I was unfortunately un—
able personally to be present, Mr. Colam had a conference
with His Excellency which resulted in the following expres—
sion of sentiment and purpose. We take Mr. Colam’s report
of his interview from our English contemporary, The Animal
World: ' r

 

 

“ The President said he cordially agreed with the Societies as to the
‘ necessity of an extension of the Convention; he asked questions es-
l pecially as to the views of the Societies respecting the composition of
the proposed corps, which he thought might be either international or
subsidiary organizations of the army of each nation; he admitted that
the Swiss Government had been requested by the Hague Peace Con-
ference to call together a special Conference for the revision of the
Geneva Convention at the right moment. Russia had been desirous of
dealing with the question, but her ofﬁces had been set aside in favor of
Switzerland, in courteous appreciation of that country’s success with
regard to the transactions of the Geneva Convention. As the Transvaal
War had absorbed England’s interests for so long, and the Chinese
conﬂict appeared to involve nearly all the Great Powers at the present
time, the Swiss Government had not deemed the right time to have
come as yet; in all questions of an international character nothing
would be more fatal than to risk a negative reply to an invitation. It
would be impossible to call together a conference for the purpose only
of considering an improvement in the fate of the horses during warfare.
for the cruel sufferings which human beings are subject to would

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

II

naturally rank ﬁrst, though recent wars had clearly proved how much
remained to be done for them. The President heartily agreed that, so
soon as the conference for the revision of the Geneva Convention was
called together, the question suggested by the Societies ought to be
discussed. It would probably meet with various objections, particularly
as the occupation of the battleﬁeld formed very often an important item
in the tactics of warfare, and there might be fears of possible abuses
prevailing. Finally he said he would place the papers handed in by Mr.
Colam with the dossier of the Swiss Government referring to the Con-
vention, and take care that the Swiss delegate had instructions to deal
with them. He would personally give the matter all the support in his
power, for he was thoroughly in sympathy with it. He suggested that
when the invitatiOn of the Powers to a new conference had been ac-
cepted, it would be desirable for all Societies for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals to send in their appeals, either direct or through
their separate Governments, which would add greatly to the weight
of SWiss influence.”

Thus the sphere of our labor continues to extend itself. I
recognize, of course, the difﬁculty of introducing special
agents authorized to “mitigate or terminate the sufferings
of wounded horses ”.; but, since the meeting of the Congress,
it has occurred to my own mind that this might possibly be
accomplished by an agreement among‘the Powers that certain
members of the Red Cross Society, to be distinguished by
some special badge, might most properly be assigned to so
humane a duty. This would prevent the necessity of making
any increase of machinery, which is always to be deprecated,
and it would add to the utility of a Society which has already
fully and fairly won the admiration of the world.

With these remarks, I venture to put before you our annual
report for the year 1900, taking .the occasion to express the
hope that the coming year and the coming century may see a
large increase in the moral and social progress of mankind,
which will surely affect a still larger extension of our good
work.

JOHN P. HAINES,
President.
December 31, 1900.

 




 

 

 

 

 

REPORT OF7 THE SECRETARY.‘

The Secretary brieﬂy reports that during the past year addi-
tional Special Agents to the number of thirty-eight were ap—
pointed, many of them residing in sections of the State where
the laws enacted for the protection of animals have not here-
tofore been enforced.

In the Obituary Record will be found the names of twenty—
one members, whose loss the Society has been called on to
mourn during the year.

Following is a summary of the work accomplished dur—
ing the year 1900:

Arrests and Prosecutions ..................... . 515
Animals Suspended from Labor ................ 3,835
Horses, mules, and other large animals, disabled

past recovery, humanely destroyed ........ 3,093
Small animals, homeless or disabled past recovery,

humanely destroyed. . . . . . . . .. ........... 92,721
Disabled horses and other large animals removed

from the streets in ambulances ....... .. . . 552
Cases Investigated ............................. 56,610

Further details of the work of the Society for the year 1900
will be found in the reports of the President, Treasurer,
and Superintendent.

JOHN MASON KNOX,

Secretary.

 

 

. '1“ H ,w ~V’1 : '33-“ . .M’.‘ m "z ‘ _ , .wm;ax»u,1_-._.. .

 




 

REPORT OF THE TREASURER.

NEW YORK, January I, 1901.

To The American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals:

The Treasurer begs leave to submit the following report for
the year ending December 31, 1900, showing a Cash Balance
on hand of $13,509.96.

Respectfully,

CHARLES LANIER,

Treasurer.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

I4

CHARLES LANIER, Treasurer, 2'72 account wit/2 THE AMERICAN
CURRENT INCOME AND EXPENDITURES FOR

 

 

 

 

DR.
To Cash balance, Dec. 31, 1899 . . . . . $414 85
“ Bequests: Mary H. Butler . . . . . . $1,967 67
- James Simons . . . . . . . 40000
Magdalena Meyer. . . . . . 2,428 33
Frederick A. Gans . . . . . 4,022 54
Stephen Putnam . . . . . . 1,000 00
9,818 54
“ Members’ Dues and General Donations . . . . . . 18,553 55
“Fines..................4,87759
“ Rentals, Dividends, Interest, Licenses, etc. . . . . . 94,736 59
“ Fountain Account, Credit Balance . . . . . . . . 384 29
/
,,/
a ///
//
5/
//
//
///
$128,785 41

 

 

 

 

 

We, the undersigned, have examined the foregoing accounts
of Cruelty to Animals, and have veriﬁed the same by the

 




 

 

I5

SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.

THE YEAR ENDING DECEMBER 31, 1900.

 

 

CR.

By Disbursements from January I, 1900, to (late: General

A
A

A
A

A
A

A
A

A
A

A
A

A
A

A
A

A
A

A
A

A
A

A
A

A
A

A
A

A
A

Maintenance, including Light, Fuel, Postage, Sal-

 

$128,785

aries, etc. . . $39,612 88
Equipment and Maintenance of New York, Brooklyn,
and Richmond Shelters . 35,399 41
Brooklyn Ofﬁce: Maintenance . . . . . . 7,910 14
Ambulance House, New York: Maintenance, including
Feed, Food, and Medicine for Homeless and Aban-
doned Animals . . . . . . . . 1,219 05
Ambulance House, I>1ooklynz Maintenance, including
Feed, Food, and Medicine for Homeless and Aban—
doned Animals . . 1,226 51
Repalrs to Real Estate, Rent, Interest, Taxes, and In-
smance 8,961 86
Real Estate, 167 W. 27th St. 4,367 55
Legal Expenses 3,824 29
Humane Literature . . . . . . 4,792 53
Stationery, Printing, Annual Report, etc. 1,316 90
Union Trust CO., Special Deposit ,- - 10,000 00
, Ullmann Estate: Mrs. Thayer . 700 00
Lecture Fund, Debit Balance 631 26
Library Account . I58 09
Young Defenders League, Debit Balance 154 98
Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe Railway Gen. Mtge. 47’
Gold Bond . . . . . . . 5,000 00
Cash balance, Dec. 31, 1900:
Cash on deposit in Second National Bank
and Checks on hand . . . . . . $3,203 42
Cash in Drawer . . . . . . . . . 306 54 3,509 96
41

 

 

of the Treasurer of The American Society for the Prevention
Society’s books and Youchers.

JAMES GRANT WILSON,
WILLIAM FAHNESTOCK,

} A ua’z'z‘z'ng Committee.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

REPORT OF THE SUPERINTENDENT.

The magnitude of the Society’s labors in the enforcement
of the humane laws of the State, and in alleviating animal suf-
fering, can better be understood by a perusal of the statistical
tables, which show the many different phases of work accom-
plished during the past year.

The work of the Society at this period of its history is largely
educational. At one time—~—and not so very long ago—the
sight of an animal being cruelly treated would receive but
passive notice, while now such acts are condemned and cruel—
lists given to understand that animals have rights which must
be recognized and respected. The claim that ownership car—
ries with it the right to do as one pleases with his own is not,
so far as animals are concerned, insisted upon as in the past,
by those who have no regard for animal suffering, but who
have been made to realize through fear of the law, if not from
selﬁsh motives, that the more consideration they give their
animals the more they receive from a pecuniary point of View.

There seems to be an impression, however, in the public
mind—though erroneous—that the Society has arbitrary
power to summarily arrest and punish persons complained of
having ill—treated animals. Many people believe that all they
have to do is to go to the Society’s headquarters and report
an alleged act of cruelty, whether of their own knowledge or
what some one else has told them matters not, when forth-
with an agent is sent to arrest and punish the offender. The
Society has no such arbitrary power. Acts of cruelty to ani—
mals are misdemeanors and are governed by the rules of pro-
cedure prescribed by the Criminal Statutes of the State. Com—

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

18

horse. It was the cost necessary to secure the animal’s com-
fort. I

What has been wrought by the Society towards the amelio-
ration of animal suffering in so—called stables can only be esti—
mated from a humane point of view.

CANALS

The several tow-paths throughout the States have been
patrolled from time to time by our Agents, and while but few
arrests of cruel drivers have been made, several teams of
horses and mules have been suspended from labor owing to
physical disability and sent to the pasture for recuperation.
The expense attending the prosecution of our work along
the canals is very great, but the results from a humane point
of view are very gratifying.

DOG AND COCK FIGHTING

The constant surveillancekept over places where dog and
cock ﬁghters usually congregate has given no safe opportu—
nity for them to indulge in the so—called sport. Several at—
tempts have been made, however, to evade the law and bafﬂe
our agents, but all have failed, owing to the co-operation of
the police and the interest taken in our work by residents of
isolated localities, who are quick to take action whenever
they suspect the laws against dog and cock ﬁghting and

. other kindred brutalities are about to be violated.

AMBULANCE \VORK

Our three large ambulances have been kept busy transport-
ing sick or injured horses and other animals from the streets
to veterinary hospitals. '

Our ﬁrst aid to the injured service rendered assistance to
over two hundred animals during the summer months, ad-

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

ONE OF THE SOCIETY‘S TEAMS AND AMBULANCES, SHOWING HORSES WEARING SUN—BONNETS
THESE BONNETS ARE MADE OF STRAw, ARE LIGHT, SERVICEABLE, AND INEXPENSIVE, AND THEIR BENEFIT TO THE
ANIMAL IN WARM WEATHER CANNOT BE OVER-ESTIMATED. THE SOCIETY RECOMMENDS
THE GENERAL ADOPTION OF SUN-SHADES FOR HORSES

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

izkr/z.‘ ,f/r,i..5 A Iii/I ,5; . 1.

5:2? A a A ‘

. .,?£§.¢li

22 2/2,)»

«23,32. .3532: 91. : ,r.‘

 

 

.4 A 327.540
‘ ; :QWUWU ac?
. t 4 .A Km MHHO/<HZC
\ ‘ A A .2; WT h/H/Han/H .
J J ‘1 . , v HV‘HJh/VHJHO> OH.) mr
kiﬁCFPr/acm WOW #2? ~7f/YUH C / m4 u k zm‘ﬁm

 




 

21

ministering relief to horses, cats, dogs, and other animals
found overcome by the heat or otherwise disabled.

Our Shelter ambulances were put to their fullest capacity,
but being well provided with needful supplies, were able to
meet every call for service.

The humane work of the Society during the very hot
weather was ably supplemented by the Chief of the Fire
Department, who caused small rubber hose to be attached to
several of the ﬁre hydrants and placed at the disposal of
drivers, who were thus enabled to give their horses a cool,
refreshing bath. By this kindly thoughtfulness of the Fire
Chief a most practical and effective relief was supplied for
overheated horses, and his action was highly commended, as
it should be.

LOCAL AGENTS

As will be noticed from the following extracts, reports from
Special Agents, residents of counties not included in Greater
New York, indicate a more careful observance of the rights
of animals and respect for the humane laws of the State:
“ Each year ﬁnds our dumb friends better used—less cruelty.”
“ While having nothing to report as to the special work of the
Society, I can safely say that my appointment has had in this
place a good effect in restraining some in their treatment of
animals as to harshness and extreme brutality. Especially is
this true with regard to the treatment of live calves shipped to
other places.”

“People who have been in the habit of driving sore and
lame horses and mules keep them in the barn or pasture, and
sheep, calves, and poultry are carried comfortably in crates
and not with their legs tied as formerly.”

“ A marked difference is noticed in the manner of treating
horses and other live stock by farmers and others from that
of last winter.” All is for the better, even if fear is the motive
rather than humanity.

The statutes pertaining to the shooting of live pigeons

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

22

as tests of marksmanship have been strictly enforced, and our
Agents have prevented. several contemplated matches on the
ground of non—compliance with the law governing such cases.
Many cats have been rescued from dangerous places and from
high trees, up which they had been chased by dogs or boys.
Horses, dogs, and other animals left unsheltered and without
food and drink have been provided for. Large quantities of
nails and broken glass have been removed from the streets
and everything has been done within the power and scope of
the Society to alleviate animal suffering when brought to our
attention.

The Brooklyn department of our work, under the efﬁcient
management of Inspector Clark, has been conducted in such
a way as to meet with the approval and commendation of all
friends interested in the good work, and it is to be hoped the
near future will bring about an increase of the force of agents
there in order to more effectively police the large territory
requiring our attention.

It affords me pleasure to take this opportunity to bear wit—
ness to the deep interest manifested in the Society and its
work by our City Magistrates and Justices of the Courts of
Special Sessions and the higher criminal tribunals, and to the
many courtesies extended. to the Society by every department
of the City Government.

“ The Society is engaged in a merciful and civilizing work,”
declared one of the presiding Justice's when imposing sen-
tence, “ and all persons found guilty in this court of wanton
cruelty to helpless dumb creatures will be punished accord—
ingly.”

In conclusion, the undersigned commends to special notice
the uniformed Agents of the Society, who are at all times
vigilant and prompt to enforce the laws for the prevention of
cruelty to animals with intelligence and ﬁrmness.

Respectfully submitted,
CHARLES H. HANKINSON.
Szrtperim‘endent.

 




 

THE FOLLOWING ARE SOME OF THE MORE
IMPORTANT CASES PROSECUTED DURING
THE YEAR 1900:

Jan. 2.

Jan. 2.

Jan. 8.

Jan. 8.

 

Moses Schenitzes was ﬁned- thirty-ﬁve dollars, with the
alternative of ﬁfteen days in the city prison, for compelling
a poor old horse, while lame, weak and feeble, to haul a
very heavily loaded vehicle. The offender was advised to
take the horse to the stable, but refused to do so, and, upon
closer observation, the ofﬁcer discovered that he had sent
the same horse back to the stable a few days previous. On
being arraigned before the Court of Special Sessions of the
First Division, Judge Holbrook presiding, he was asked
what he had to say in regard to the charge. He answered
that the horse was perfectly able to do the work required,
and was simply lazy. The magistrate did not take that View ,
of the case, and the offender was ﬁned as above.

“ Samuel Weil, you are ﬁned twenty—ﬁve dollars, and, in
default of payment, you are to be imprisoned ten days,” was
the sentence imposed by Judge Hinsdale of the Court of
Special Sessions of the First Division for compelling a
very lame horse to drag a loaded truck up a steep incline.
The load weighed in addition to the truck about two tons.
The horse had stopped because of its inability to haul the}
load, but Weil kept urging it along till he was arrested.

Charles B. Ludekins was ﬁned twenty-ﬁve dollars by the
Court of Special Sessions of the Second Division for shoot-
ing and wounding a neighbor’s dog in the back simply be-
cause the animal trespassed upon his premises.

For over—driving and otherwise ill-treating a horse.
Simeon Lewis, of Woodhull. N. Y., was sentenced to pay a
ﬁne of fourteen dollars. with the alternative of fourteen days’
imprisonment, by Justice W. R. Colvin.

 




 

24

Jan. 9. Angelico Gerinodo, of Mamaroneck, N. Y., was ﬁned two
and one-half dollars for causing and permitting a horse be—
longing to him to be worked while suffering at the time
from horrible sores on the body unprotected from the
harness.

 

 

Jan. 17. Abraham Craft, of lnwood, L. 1., was convicted of having
beatena horse on the head and body with a heavy stick of
wood. The animal was in a pitiful condition from the effects
of the beating and subsequently died from the ill—treatment.
The defendant was sentenced to be imprisoned for four
months in the county jail by Justice Wm. H. E. Jay of
VVoodmere.

Jan. 18. For beating a horse most cruelly over the head and body
with the butt end of a whip, Michael Kirwin was ﬁned ten
dollars by the Court of Special Sessions of the First Divi—
sion, Judge Hinsdale presiding. When sentencing the
prisoner the Judge took occasion to warn him that a repeti—
tion of the offence would be more severely dealt with,

 

Jan. 21 For overdriving and otherwise abusing a beautiful road-
horse, M. J. Bertin, of AmSterdam, N. Y., was sentenced
to pay a ﬁne of ﬁve dollars and costs by Recorder J. S.
Maxwell.

Jan. 22. John Smith, for compelling a mule, suffering at the time
from sores on the back unprotected from the harness, to
haul a heavily—loaded truck, upon his plea of guilty, was
sentenced to pay a ﬁne of twenty—ﬁve dollars or be impri—
soned for ten days, by the Court of Special Sessions of the
First Division, Judge McKean presiding.

Jan. 25. Presiding Judge Holbrook, of the Court of Special Ses-
sions of the First Division, imposed a ﬁne of twenty—ﬁve
dollars, with the alternative of ten days in the City Prison,
upon Wolfe Reifel, who was charged with causing and per-
mitting a horse while lame and suffering in its body and
limbs to haul a heavily—loaded truck. The defendant had
been warned several days previous not to work the horse.

Jan. 30. “ The sentence of the Court is that you be ﬁned ﬁve dol-
lars or be imprisoned ﬁve days in the City Prison.” said
Judge William .C. Kellogg, upon a plea of guilty made by

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

HQ?! Z/WHZIHO/i OVQQHQHV: 7.0

VH/xOZm @7120: L0 EL/JHDOFOE; ZMEHOVJ‘

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1!: \‘w 1 , ‘ t "“ 1
.{vll’I
_
y ,
. .

 




 

 

 

Jan. 31.

Jan. 31.

Feb. I.

Feb. 6.

Feb. 7.

27

Stephen Ryan, of Yonkers, N. Y., who was charged with
striking and kicking a horse in a cruel manner. The ani-
mal was being led to the blacksmith's shop to be shod when
Ryan became angry because the horse started to run away.

For driving a horse suffering from what is known as
suppurating corn, causing great pain and lameness, Fred W.
Jones was sentenced to pay a ﬁne of twenty—ﬁve dollars or be
imprisoned for ten days in the City Prison by the Court of
Special Sessions of the First Division, Judge Jerome pre-
siding.

Thomas Dury was remonstrated with by a lady and cau-
tioned not to beat his horse, as he was doing at the time,
over the head and body with the butt end of a whip. Dury
insolently told the lady she had better mind her own busi-
ness. He was arrested and subsequently ﬁned twenty—ﬁve
dollars by the Court of Special Sessions of the First Divi-
sion, Judge Jacobs presiding.

For carrying live chickens in a cruel and inhuman manner
—-namely, in crates without sufﬁcient space to stand or move
about without physical pain, then leaving the animals in the
boxes exposed to the inclemency of the weather for many
hours—Solomon Finkelstein, of Brooklyn, was sentenced to
pay a ﬁne of $100, or in default of payment to be imprisoned
three months in the County Jail, by the Court of Special Ses-
sions of the Second Division, Judges Fleming, Fitzgerald,
and Courtney.

Justice Percy W. Decker sentenced Oscar Peterson, of
Tannersville, N. Y., to pay a ﬁne'of twenty-ﬁve dollars upon
the defendant’s plea of guilty to having beaten in a cruel
manner and overdriven a horse until it was exhausted.

For compelling a very lame, emaciated old horse to haul
a heavily-loaded wagon, Michael Cody, of Brooklyn, was
sentenced to pay a ﬁne of twenty—ﬁve dollars or be conﬁned
for ten days in the City Prison by Judges Holbrook, Jerome,
and Jacobs of the Court of Special Sessions of the First
Division. In addition to the lameness the animal was suf—
fering from large sores on the back unprotected from the
harness.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

Feb. 7.

Feb. 7.

Feb. 9.

Feb. 9.

Feb. 9.

28

For leaving a horse in the barn for forty—eight hours with-
out food or water, James Joyce, of Cornwall, N. Y., was
sentenced to pay a ﬁne of ﬁfteen dollars by Justice John J.
Lawrence.

Albert Dehne was advised to stop kicking and otherwise
abusing his horse, which at the time was attached to a wagon
loaded with merchandise. The animal itself was poor in
ﬂesh and seemingly unable to haul the load. Dehne re—
sented the advice and continued the abuse. He was arrested
by an ofﬁcer of the Society and subsequently convicted in
the Court of Special Sessions of the First Division, Judges
Holbrook, Jerome, and Jacobs presiding, and sentenced to
pay a ﬁne of twenty—ﬁve dollars or be imprisoned ten days
in the City Prison. Several ladies who witnessed the cruelty
to the horse appeared in court and testiﬁed against the
defendant.

For failing to provide food, drink, and shelter for several
horses and cattle in his custody and under his control, Ben—
jamin Palmer, of Franklin, N..Y., was sentenced to pay a
ﬁne of ﬁfteen dollars and to be conﬁned for 120 days in jail,
as well as one day for every dollar of the ﬁne remaining
unpaid, by G. D. Chamberlain, Justice of the Peace.

Jacob Cohen was charged with attempting to poison a
horse belonging to a rival truckman. It was alleged that
Cohen was seen putting in the feed bag of the horse a sub—
stance containing poison. When the defendant was arrested
and arraigned before the City Magistrate all of the witnesses
who alleged they had seen the defendant place the poisonous
substance in the bag failed to substantiate their statements.
In fact they denied having made such statements. Every,
effort was made by the Society to make a case against the de-
fendant, but it was impossible to do so under the circum—
stances. City Magistrate Mayo very reluctantly dismissed
the complaint.

For kicking a horse several times in the stomach, also
beating the animal on the head and body with a whip in a
cruel manner. Martin Schoonmaker was ﬁned twenty-ﬁve
dollars by the Court of Special Sessions of the Second Divi-
sion, Judge Fitzgerald presiding.

 




 

Feb. 19.

Feb. 27.

March I.

March 1.

March I.

March 2.

 

29

Antonio Caponio was ﬁned ﬁfteen dollars, with the alter-
native. of ﬁve days' imprisonment, by the Court of Special
Sessions of the First Division, Judge Jerome presiding, upon
his conviction of having beaten and kicked a horse in a
cruel and inhuman manner. The animal at the time was
attached to a wagon loaded with sand and was in a deplor-
able condition by reason of overwork.

Justice Frederick S. Wright, of S-ayville, L. 1., sentenced
Jefferson Snure to pay a ﬁne of ten dollars for leaving a
horse, suffering at the time from lock—jaw, exposed to the
inclemency of the weather for over eighteen hours. The
poor creature was in a most pitiable condition when dis-
covered by the Society’s Special Agent, who humanely ended
its suffering.

Louis Laroque. of Malone. N. Y., was sentenced to be
imprisoned for thirty days for compelling a poor, miserable,
decrepit horse to haul a wagon several milesduring a severe
snow storm. The animal was in such a bad condition when
found by the Society’s ofﬁcer that after being taken to a
nearby barn and fed it was deemed advisable by the veter—
inary surgeon to end its sufferings, which was done.

Louis Neareau, of Malone. N. Y.. was sentenced to be
imprisoned in the Albany Penitentiary at hard labor for four
months for causing and permitting above-mentioned horse
to be tortured.

Peter Parrin, Jr., of Malone, N. Y., for overdriving and
cruelly beating a weak and decrepit horse attached to a sleigh
during a snow storm until the animal fell in the roadway
from exhaustion, was sentenced to four months in the
Albany Penitentiary at hard labor.

John A. Wagner, when called upon in the Court of
Special Sessions of the First Division, Judge Jerome pre-
siding, to plead to the charge of having cruelly beaten his
horse upon the head and body with a whip, made the excuse
that he was drunk and did not know what he was doing.
The magistrate decided that that only aggravated the of-
fence. and sentenced the defendant to pay a ﬁne of twenty—
ﬁve dollars or be imprisoned for ten days, and warned him

 




30

that if he was ever brought to court again on a similar
charge he would very likely get the full penalty that the law
prescribed for such offences.

 

 

March 2. Justice Oliver Bourke sentenced Sylvester Stone, of
Palenville, N. Y., to pay a ﬁne of ﬁfteen dollars for having
overdriven and otherwise abused his horse.

March 5. “The sentence of the Court is that you be ﬁned twenty-
ﬁve dollars or be imprisoned for ten days,” said presiding
Judge Jerome of the Court of Special Sessions of the First
Division to George Mueller, who had been convicted of
driving a very lame horse to a heavily—loaded wagon. The
animal was suffering from several diseases of the legs and
was otherwise decrepit.

 

March 7. Lame, sore, weak, and feeble was the condition of the
horse Henry Schrier compelled to haul a heavily—loaded
vehicle. The poor creature could hardly put a foot to the
ground, yet the defendant was urging it along. Veterinary
surgeons and others testiﬁed to the condition of the horse
at the trial of the defendant in the Court of Special Sessions
of the First Division, Judge Jerome presiding. Schrier was
sentenced to pay a ﬁne of twenty-ﬁve dollars or be conﬁned
for ten days in the City Prison.

March 8. Another attempt to poison a horse by a rival truckman
was brought to the attention of the Society and led to the
arrest of one Julius Sarmizsky. City Magistrate Henry A.
Brann issued a warrant for the arrest of the alleged offender
upon the complaint of the owner of the horse. Upon the
defendant being arraigned the complainant failed to make
out a case, stating that he was not sure that the offender was
the person he saw attempting to poison the. horse. Mag-
istrate Brann, much against his will, was obliged to dismiss
the complaint.

March 10; Agnello Spozi was convicted in the Court of Special Ses-
sions of the First Division, Judge MeKean presiding. and
sentenced to pay a ﬁne of twenty—ﬁve dollars or be conﬁned
ten days in the City Prison, for driving a horse attached to
a loaded wagon while the animal was in a lame, weak, and
feeble condition and suffering in its body and limbs.

 

 




 

31

March 13. Justice Myron Mason, of Oneonta, sentenced Charles
Pardee and William Salisbury, of the same place, each to
ninety days’ hard labor in the penitentiary for overdriving,
torturing, cruelly beating, and injuring a horse. When the
animal was returned to its owner it was in a pitiful condition
and had to remain under veterinary treatment for many days.

March 19. For beating a sick and lame horse in a cruel manner with
a stick of wood, Tony Delugi was ﬁned ten dollars by the
Court of Special Sessions of the First Division, Judge Jacobs
presiding. .

March 19. Fifteen dollars or ﬁve days in the City Prison was the
sentence imposed upon Michael Barile, for compelling a
horse while lame and sore to draw a wagon loaded with
coal, by the Court of Special Sessions of the First Division,
Judge Jacobs presiding.

March 19. Lame, sore, and feeble was the condition of the horse
Louis Liagre was compelling to haul a wagon through the
streets of the city. The defendant had been convicted of a
similar offence a short time prior, which fact was stated to
the trial court—namely, the Special Sessions of the First
Division, Judge Jerome presiding, who sentenced the de-
fendant to pay a ﬁne of seventy-ﬁve dollars or be imprisoned
twenty days in the County Jail. The horse was sent to the
hospital and cared for by the Society during defendant’s
term of imprisonment.

March 22. Stewart Foley, of Elmira, N. Y., was sentenced to sixty
days’ imprisonment at hard labor, by Justice John A. Adams,
for overdriving, neglecting to supply food and shelter, as
well as leaving a 'horse exposed to the inclemency of the
weather for many hours.

March 26. Patrick Sullivan was arrested while driving a horse suf—
fering from horrible sores on the neck and body unpro—
tected from the harness, also lame, weak, and feeble, attached
to a heavily—loaded truck. Sullivan remonstrated at his ar—
rest, claiming the horse was in good condition for work.
The facts of the case, as stated before the Court of Special
Sessions of the First Division, Judge Jerome presiding,
caused the Judge, without hearing the testimony of the

 




 

 

 

 

March 27.

March 2 .

\l

March 28.

March 29.

hTarch 31.

April 2.

32

veterinary surgeon, to impose a ﬁne of twenty-ﬁve dollars,
with the alternative of ten days' in the City Prison. Sullivan
was a very much astonished man when he was made to
realize that cruelty to animals was a violation of the laws of
the State.

The worn—out horse which Isidor Haberman purchased
for ten dollars was a victim of almost every ailment to which
a horse is subject. Haberman was arrested, plead guilty,
and was sentenced in the Court of Special Sessions, First
Division, Judge Jacobs presiding, to pay a ﬁne of ﬁfteen
dollars or be conﬁned in the City Prison for three days.
The horse was humanely destroyed.

“ The sentence of the Court is that you be ﬁned twenty
dollars,” said Judge Fitzgerald, of the Court of Special Ses—
sions of the Second Division, to Barrett C. Cabe, of Brook-
lyn, who had been convicted of beating a horse in a cruel
manner on the head and body with a whip.

John Boyle, of Brooklyn, was sentenced to pay a ﬁne of
thirty dollars or to be imprisoned for twenty days by the
Court of Special Sessions of the Second Division, Judge
Fleming presiding, for compelling a lame horse to drag a
heavily—loaded truck.

Presiding Judge Jacobs, of the Court of Special Sessions
of the First Division, sentenced John Smith to pay a ﬁne
of ten dollars or be conﬁned three days in the City Prison
upon his plea of guilty to the charge of beating a horse With
a whip in a cruel and inhuman manner.

For overdriving a team of horses on the public highway,
Jaren Haskens, of Duane, N. Y., was sentenced to pay a ﬁne
of twenty—ﬁve dollars by Police Justice 0. C. Earle, of
Malone, N. Y.

Joseph Newman, of Brooklyn, N. Y., caused and per-
mitted one Joseph Apa, a driver, to drive a horse while in
a weak and decrepit condition. The horse was hardly able
to stand, let alone haul a loaded wagon. The. defendant was
ﬁned twenty-ﬁve dollars by the Court of Special Sessions
of the Second Division, Judge Fleming presiding.

 




 

 

34

ting to be exposed on the streets of the city a horse having
glanders, was sentenced to the penitentiary for three months
by the Court of Special Sessions of the First Division,
Judges McKean, Holbrook, and Hinsdale.

 

 

April :3. Pasquale Patrella was arrested while in the act of carrying
four young goats in a bag, their legs tied together and
packed like bundles of wood. The excuse that the defendant
gave at the trial was that it was customary in his “country
to carry such animals in the manner described. Presiding
Judge Fleming, of the Court of Special Sessions of the Sec-
ond Division, informed him that the laws of this country
prohibited cruelty to animals and sentenced the defendant
to pay a ﬁne of ten dollars.

 

April 15. John H. Smith, of Brooklyn, was sentenced to pay a ﬁne
of twenty-ﬁve dollars by the Court of Special Sessions of the
Second Division, Judge Fleming presiding, for having
caused and permitted William Owens to drive a horse be-
longing to the defendant while the animal was suffering
from horrible sores on the back unprotected from the har—
ness. In the case of Owen, the driver, sentence was sus—
pended.

April 16. N. S. Murphy was charged before Justice John A. Van
Zelm, of New Rochelle, N. Y., with having unjustiﬁably
pulled a horse from one side of the stable to the other by
its tongue. The horse was very much injured. Upon the
defendant’s plea of guilty he was ﬁned ﬁve dollars.

April 17. Patrick Rooney, of Brooklyn, was charged with wilfully
causing the front wheel of his truck to run over the left
hind leg of a horse standing near the sidewalk, thereby in—
juring the animal in the leg very severely. The de—
fense was “ Did not see the horse.” Witnesses for the pro—
secution testiﬁed that the defendant had plenty of room in
the street to avoid the injury. He was found guilty and
sentenced to pay a ﬁne of ﬁfty dollars or serve thirty days
in jail by the Court of Special Sessions of the Second Divi-
sion, Judge Fitzgerald presiding.

April 20. Stephen Hungerford, of Oneonta, compelled his horse to
remain out in the roadway unprotected from the inclemency

 

 

 




 

 

 

MEDAL PRESENTED TO MR. A. UHRICH, PRESIDENT OF THE PARIS SOCIETY FOR THE
PROTECTION OF ANIMALS, BY THE AMERICAN SOCIETY, AT THE THIRTEENTH

INTERNATIONAL CONGRESS OF SOCIETIES FOR THE PROTECTION OF
ANIMALS, HELD AT PARIS, JULY 17TH TO 218T, 1900

 

 




 

 

 

THIS DOG WAS FOUND IN A STARVING CONDITION BY THE SOCIETY’S AGENT AT
MOUNT MORRIS, N. Y.

SEVERAL PUPS To WHICH SHE HAD RECENTLY GIVEN BIRTH DIEI) OWING To THE WEAKENED CONDITION
0E THE MOTHER.“ THE DOG RECOVERED UNDER 13RQTER MEDICAL TREATMENT

AN‘\ ~( “v




"A..-“ L vnu AV

nun,” uuu “nu 1\114\/L1V1141 unru D11\lll 111121) U\\1.\U 1U 11112 \\ MUXLDLU LUI‘HMHUN

THE MO'l‘l-IEI‘.

I

O l“

I‘IIE'D‘OVG RECOVERED UNDER PROPER MEDICAL TREATMENT

\7

1

.x

&(xx

AMI». 1

 

April 20.

April 23.

April 24.

April 25.

 

37

of the weather and without food or water for nearly twenty—
four hours. Justice Charles S. Furman ﬁned the offender
thirteen dollars upon his conviction of cruelty to animals.

“You are charged,” said Judge McKean, presiding Judge
of the Court of Special Sessions of the First Division, to
Charles Sheridan, “ with having committed a most cruel and
wanton injury to a dog. What have you to say?” The
defendant made the usual defence that the dog attacked
him and he simply resOrted to self—defence. The testimony
of several witnesses was to the effect that Sheridan picked
the dog up by the back, threw it in the air, and when it fell
to the ground kicked it in the body in a most cruel and in—
human manner. The Court found the defendant guilty and
sentenced him to imprisonment for sixty days.

A sentence of twenty-ﬁve dollars’ ﬁne or imprisonment for
ten days in the City Prison was imposed by Judge McKean
of the Court of Special Sessions of the First Division upon
John A. Donnolly, who pleaded guilty to having compelled
a lame, weak, and feeble horse to draw a heavily—loaded
wagon. In addition to the lameness described, the animal
was suffering from what is known as an open joint on the
knee, from which blood and pus were discharging.

George F. Fieldner was arraigned in the Court of Special
Sessionsof the First Division, Judge Jacobs presiding,
charged with having compelled a team'of horses that were
in a sore and decrepit condition to haul a heavily—loaded
truck. The veterinary surgeon of the Society testiﬁed as
to the condition of the horse, and the defendant was sen—
tenced to pay a ﬁne of twenty-ﬁve dollars or be imprisoned

for ten days.

Nicholas Welsh and Peter Doyle, of Yonkers, N. Y.,
were arraigned before City Judge William Kellogg, charged
with having violated the provisions of Section 664 of the
Penal Code, in that they instigated a ﬁght between two bull
dogs one Sunday afternoon on the public street. A large
crowd had gathered, and the defendants were in the act of
urging the dogs to tear each other, which they were busily
engaged in doing, when arrested. Each of the defendants'
was sentenced to pay a ﬁne of twenty-ﬁve dollars or be

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

May 3.

May 8.

 

April 27.

April 27.

38

imprisoned in the County Jail for twenty-ﬁve days. The
dogs were taken possession of by the Society and forfeited
pursuant to the statute. It is safe to say they will never be
used for ﬁghting purposes again.

Alexander Williams, of Brooklyn, N. Y., for overdriving
and cruelly beating a team of horses on the head and body
with a whip while engaged in a trial of speed on the Coney
Island road, was sentenced to pay a ﬁne of twenty dollars
by Judge Courtney, of the Court of Special Sessions of the
Second Division.

Frederick Strohsuer is the proprietor of a road house as
well as a dance hall, situated at Orchard Street. Corona, L. I.
About midnight of this date Sergeant R. F. Powers,
of the Seventy—seventh Police Precinct, was notiﬁed that a
dog ﬁght was contemplated at the Strohsuer place. Taking
with him a dozen ofﬁcers, he went to the dance hall and
found forty men, non—residents, congregated there. In the
middle of the ﬂoor of the hall chairs were arranged to form
a circle, in the centre of which the dogs were to ﬁght. The
arrival of the police officers before the dogs were brought
in caused a panic among the persons present, who were all
arrested, locked up, and subsequently arraigned before City
Magistrate Matthew Smith and charged with being present
and premeditating a ﬁght between dogs. There was not
sufﬁcient evidence to convict the prisoners under the statute,
but there was sufﬁcient evidence to convict the proprietor,
Frederick Strohsuer, for permitting his place to be used for
violation of the law, and the Court of Special Sessions of the
Second Division, Judge Courtney. presiding, sentenced him
to pay a ﬁne of ﬁfty dollars or be imprisoned for thirty days.
All the other persons were discharged.

For causing and permitting a horse, while in a sore, weak,
and feeble condition, to haul a heavily—loaded wagon, Ed-
ward Gerlach, the owner, was convicted in the Court of
Special Sessions of the First Division, and sentenced to pay
a ﬁne of twenty-ﬁve dollars or be imprisoned for ten days,
by Judges McKean, Holbrook, and Hinsdale.

Cornelius Craft. of Inwood, N. Y., was convicted by the
Court of Special Sessions of the Second Division, Judges

 




 

May 9.

May 14.

May 16.

May 16.

 

39

Keady, Fleming, and Fitzgerald presiding, for engaging as
a witness in' a cock ﬁght at a place known as Flaherty’s,
located at Blissville, L. I., and was ﬁned seventy-ﬁve dollars,
with the alternative of imprisonment for thirty days.

The horse owned and driven by Michael Bulgrode was in
a pitiful condition when stopped by the Society's ofﬁcer.
Upon the charge of cruelty the defendant was called upon
to plead to in the Court of Special Sessions of the First Divi—
sion, Judges McKean, Jacobs, and Holbrook presiding, the
veterinary surgeon testiﬁed that the horse was suffering al-
most all the ailments to which such animals are subject, and
was in great pain. The defendant pleaded poverty. The
Court took his plea into consideration and imposed a ﬁne
of ﬁfteen dollars, with the alternative of three days’ imprison—
ment in the City Prison.

For exposing in the public streets and offering for sale
a horse having the disease known as the glanders. Lawrence
Durney, of the City of Yonkers, was sentenced to pay a ﬁne
of ﬁfty dollars or be imprisoned in the Kings County Peni—
tentiary for ﬁfty days by City Judge William C. Kellogg.

'In the language of the veterinary surgeon, “ the horse was

rotten and diseased past recovery.”

For causing and permitting one Patrick Ahearn to drive
a horse that was sore, weak, and feeble harnessed to a
loaded wagon, Joseph Brown, the owner, was convicted in
the Court of Special Sessions of the First Division, Judge
Holbrook presiding. and sentenced to pay a ﬁne of twenty-
ﬁve dollars, with the alternative of ten days in the City
Prison. In the case of Ahearn sentence was suspended.

Barnett Schelling, a North Bergen dairy farmer, drove a
horse from that place to New York City while the animal
was suffering from horrible sores on the back unprotected
from the harness. The animal was also lame, weak, and
feeble and suffering in its body and limbs. The defendant
was sentenced to pay a ﬁne of twenty—ﬁve dollars or be im—
prisoned ten days in the City Prison by Judges Holbrook,
Jerome, and Hinsdale, of the Court of Special Sessions of
the First Division.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

May 17.

May 18.

May 19.

May 21.

May 21.

4o

Furman Craft, of Inwood, L. 1., was jointly charged with
his brother, Abraham Craft, wit'h beating a horse with a
stick of wood on January 15. Immediately after the offence
was committed the former was tried, convicted, and im—
prisoned on another charge, but upon his release was ar—
rested on the complaint of cruelty to animals. He demanded
a trial by jury, but was convicted upon the testimony of
witnesses and sentenced by Justice W'm. H. E. Jay to four
months’ imprisonment in the County Jail. Reference to his
brother’s trial and conviction for the same offence appears in
this report under date of January 17.

John J. Desmond and John Flannigan, of Rockaway
Beach, were sentenced to pay a ﬁne of ﬁfty dollars each or
be imprisoned twenty days in the City Prison by Judges
Keady, Fleming, and Fitzgerald, of the Court of Special
Sessions of the First Division, for engaging as witnesses in
a cock ﬁght at “ Siney ” Flaherty's roadhouse at Blissville,
L. I.

Daniel Hull and Lucy Hull, his wife, of Bath, N. Y., were
convicted in the Court of Special Sessions, before S. J.
Lewis, Justice of the Peace, and a jury, and ﬁned ten dollars
each, for maliciously maltreating and killing a cat which had
been caught in a steel trap set by the defendant. The poor
creature’s leg was broken, and after being released from the
trap the defendant and his wife beat the animal to death
with a club.

Abraham Geller, of Brooklyn, was convicted in the Court
of Special Sessions of the Second Division, Judge Keady
presiding, and sentenced to pay a ﬁne of seventy—ﬁve dollars
or be imprisoned for thirty days, for having compelled a
horse while in a lame, weak, and feeble condition to haul
a heavily-loaded wagon. '

For beating a team of horses over the head and body with
the end of knotted driving lines, Jacob Ochaer was sentenced
to pay a ﬁne of twenty—ﬁve dollars, with the alternative of
ten days in the City Prison by Judges McKean, Jacobs, and
Hinsdale, of the Court of Special Sessions of the First
Division.

 




 

 

 

June 8.

June 9.

June 13.

June 19.

June 26.

42

sentenced to pay a ﬁne of thirty-ﬁve dollars or be imprisoned
for ﬁfteen days by Judges Holbrook, Jerome, and Hinsdale,
of the Court of Special Sessions of the First Division.

Thomas Mullen was convicted in the Court of Special
Sessions of the First Division, Judge Hinsdale presiding,
and sentenced'to pay a ﬁne of twenty—ﬁve dollars or be im—
prisoned for ten days in the City Prison, for driving a lame
horse caused by the soles of both. forefeet dropping so that
the animal was walking on the ﬂesh of the foot. There was
also a large cancerous sore on the side of the fore foot. The
horse was lame in the back and otherwise in a disabled con-
dition. The veterinary surgeon testiﬁed at the trial that the
animal was suffering great physical pain.

For leaving two horses in a stable and neglecting to pro-
vide them with food and water for over thirty-six hours,
John Killenbeck was sentenced to pay a ﬁne of ten dollars
or be imprisoned in the County Jail for ten days by Recorder
Wollcott, of Little Falls, N Y.

Recorder G. H. Wollcott, of Little Falls, N. Y., imposed
a ﬁne of ten dollars, with the alternative of ten days in the
County Jail, upon Stephen Williams, who was convicted of
having beaten a horse with a club in a cruel manner and
fastening a rope around the animal’s tongue and pulling and
jerking it until the mouth bled.

John Taylor, of Gouverneur, N. Y., for over-driving and
cruelly beating a horse, was sentenced to paya ﬁne of
twenty—ﬁve dollars or be imprisoned ﬁfty—nine days in the
workhouse gang by Justice J. McConnell, of VVatertown,
N. Y.

The horse Max Schriner was driving through Delancey
Street of this city was lame, sore, and feeble. When ar-
raigned before the Court of Special Sessions of the First
Division, Judge Hinsdale presiding, the defendant said he
had bought the animal for ﬁve dollars and expected to build
it up and make it worth a great deal more. The Court im-
posed a ﬁne of ﬁfteen dollars, with the alternative of ﬁve
days in the City Prison. The horse was humanely destroyed.

 




 

June 26.

June 26.

July 2.

July 4-

July 4.

July 13.

43

George Wohlliben, for striking his horse several times
upon the body with a pickaxe, inﬂicting wounds ﬁve inches
deep and two inches long, was convicted in the Court of
Special Sessions of the First Division, Judge Hinsdale pre-
siding, and sentenced to pay a ﬁne of $250 dollars or be im-
prisoned three months in the penitentiary. \Nitnesses tes—
tiﬁed that the horse belonged to the defendant; that while
putting the harness on the horse became uneasy, which an-
gered VVohlliben, who went into the yard for the pickaxe,
returned. and struck the horse. After inﬂicting the wounds
he paid no further attention to the horse, and it was through
the kindness of one of the witnesses that the Society was
notiﬁed of the case. Wohlliben was at once arrested and
convicted as above.

For unjustiﬁably killing his neighbor's chickens. George
Bennett, of Stockport, N. Y., was sentenced to pay a ﬁne of
ﬁve dollars by Justice William R. Bennett.

Presiding Judge McKean, of the Court of Special Sessions
of the First Division, imposed a ﬁne of twenty dollars upon
Philip Kolle, who was convicted of having beaten a horse
over the head and body with a whip in a most cruel manner.

For overdriving, torturing, tormenting, and cruelly beat-
ing a horse, William Wyatt, of Wintertown, N. Y., was sen—
tenced by the local Justice of the Peace to pay a ﬁne of ten
dollars, with the alternative of ten days in the County Jail.

William Cannady, of Herkimer, N. Y., was arrested and
prosecuted for beating and over—driving a horse in a cruel
manner. The evidence against the prisoner was overwhelm—
ing, and he was found guilty and sentenced to sixty days’
imprisonment in the County Jail by Justice F. A. Gray.

For beating a horse that was in a weak, feeble and ex-
hausted condition, Edward Tenbrook was sentenced to pay
a ﬁne of thirty-ﬁve dollars or be imprisoned for ﬁfteen days
by Judges Hinsdale, McKean, and Jacobs, of the Court of
Special Sessions of the First Division. Witnesses testiﬁed
that the defendant beat the horse unmercifully, simply be-'
cause it could not pull the load. '

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

July I4.

‘ July 16.

July 17.

July 24.

July 28.

Au g. 4.

44

Barney Schulowitz was arrested while compelling a horse,
suffering from sores on the body unprotected from the har—
ness, to drag a loaded wagon. The sores were in a horrible
condition and caused the animal great physical pain. In
addition to the above the animal had but one shoe, and that
was on'the near hind foot. Schulowitz was sentenced to pay
a ﬁne of ﬁfteen dollars or be imprisoned for ﬁve days by
Judges Hinsdale, Jerome, and Jacobs, of the Court of Special
Sessions of the First Division.

For driving a team of decrepit horses to an ice wagon,
William Mohr was ﬁned twenty-ﬁve dollars by presiding
Judge McKean, of the Court of Special Sessions of the First
Division. In addition to lameness the veterinary surgeon
testiﬁed that the horses were suffering from sores on the
back unprotected from the harness, and were in pretty bad
shape otherwise.

For driving a lame horse attached to an express wagon,
James H. Ferns, of Brooklyn, was sentenced to pay a ﬁne
of thirty dollars by Judges Keady, Fleming, and Fitzgerald,
of the Court of Special Sessions of the Second Division.

James Huso, of Franklinville, N. Y., was ﬁned twenty-
ﬁve dollars by Justice W. W. Warring for having abandoned
and neglected to provide food, drink, and shelter for a horse.

For driving a 'horse suffering at the time from lameness
in the off fore foot and sores on the back unprotected from,
the harness, 'James Elliott was sentenced to pay a ﬁne of
twenty—ﬁve dollars or be imprisoned for ten days by Judges
Hinsdale, Jerome, and Jacobs, of the Court of Special Ses-
sions of the First Division.

Max Goldfeder, Jacob Goodgold, and Meyer Solomon were
suspected of having poisonedahorse belonging to a neighbor..
The defendants on being arraigned before City Magistrate
Flammer denied the charge, and witnesses who had volun—
teered to testify against them failed to appear. 'They were
subsequently brought into court, and upon being called to
give evidence, declared that they knew nothing at all about
the case. Justice Flammer dismissed the complaint.

 




 

363 .94. d a .< .zorgiﬁém no
mmommk we? 5 aim? @5435 E; 7: mmgcopmem 02:72.: 912524 ”:2.

.> .Z .mH/LZOE PZDOZ Paw HZm0< ,nrmeHUOm >2 QuDUmmz ammo: OZH>Z<Fm

”HO (HADmmz ME? wad. mm<om SE.“

 

 

 

 

a

 

 

. $13.15.! EV: r. 33!}

«

 

 

 

in <3};

 

 

_ , . x. ,
la? I S A a: y ..‘ .
313313; 2% . .2 £93.») :3: V iii i ‘3’};
:1..§33e3§:v.§®§a£¥xh§.i» : \r: £31.;lzas. :

 

 

_ ) «t3 $§ ,.§.?.:2iob53§8§: : . r: ‘ Er; .

 

S»:

 

. 3.,» x .8

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

AMBULANCE FOR LARGE ANIMALS, SHOWING MANNER OF LOADING HORSE ABLE TO WALK
A SLIDING BOTTOM BOARD AND A WINDLASS FOR OPERATING THE SAME ARE USED IN

THE CASE OF DISABLED HORSES

 

 




 

 

Aug. 5.

Aug. 8.

Aug. 9.

Aug. 16.

Aug. 30.

47

William Baker was arrested in Yonkers, N. Y., for over-
driving a horse, which he compelled to drag a buggy from
Harlem to Yonkers. The animal had gone lame on the way,
and when stopped by the Society’s ofﬁcer was hobbling
along on three feet. In addition to the lameness the horse
was sore, weak, and feeble and disabled past further use.
Baker was convicted of the charge of cruelty and sentenced
to pay a ﬁne of twenty-ﬁve dollars or be imprisoned for
twenty—ﬁve days by City Judge Stephen F. Thayer.

For compelling a team of horses while in a lame, sore,
weak, and feeble condition to haul a truck loaded with
bricks, Patrick Donnolly was sentenced to .pay a ﬁne of
twenty—ﬁve dollars or be imprisoned for ten days in the City
Prison by Judges Jerome, McKean, and Jacobs.

James Canﬁeld, driver of an express wagon, was arrested
for driving a horse suffering from large sores on the body
unprotected from the harness. Upon being arraigned be-
fore City Magistrate Pool, Canﬁeld stated that he was com—
pelled to drive the horse by John Goggin, foreman of the
stable. Upon this statement the magistrate issued a warrant
for the arrest of Goggin, who was subsequently arraigned
before the Court of Special Sessions of the First Division,
Judge McKean presiding, convicted, and sentenced to pay
a ﬁne of twenty—ﬁve dollars or be imprisoned for ten days.
In the case of Canﬁeld sentence was suspended.

For driving a horse suffering at the time from sores on
the body unprotected from the harness, Meyer Orlusky was
ﬁned ﬁfteen dollars or imprisonment for ﬁve days‘by» Judges
McKean. Jacobs, and Jerome, of the Court of Special Ses—
sions of the First Division.

Marks Rabnsitsky was arrested for driving a horse de—
scribed by witness as “ a bag of bones.” The poor creature
could hardly put one foot before the other. yet was compelled
to haul a wagon heavily loaded with coal. Defendant said
he had bought the horse for a small amount and that the
animal was well able to work. Judge Jacobs. presiding in
the Court of Special Sessions of the First Division, thought
differently, and imposed a ﬁne of twenty-ﬁve dollars, with

 




 

 

 

 

 

Sept. 1.

Sept. 4.

Sept. 5.

Sept. 7.

Sept. 7.

48

the alternative of imprisonment for ten Hays. The horse
was humanely destroyed.

Hyman Reinbach, for beating a horse in a cruel manner
on the body and limbs with a stick having a sharp—pointed
nail in the end, inﬂicting wounds on the body of the horse
measuring over two and one-half inches in diameter, was
ﬁned ﬁfty dollars by Judge Jacobs, of the Court of Special
Sessions of the First Division. The Judge characterized the
case as one of extreme cruelty.

William Rupert, of Gloversville, N. Y., was sentenced to
imprisonment for ﬁfteen days by Recorder Wood upon con—
viction of having compelled a sick and sore horse, partially
paralyzed, to haul a loaded wagon.

Edward de Hond. of Newark, N. J., for mutilating the
tongue of a horse in a cruel manner, was sentenced to pay
a ﬁne of ﬁve dollars by Justice F. A. Brewer.

Max Tessler was found driving a lame and sore horse
attached to 'a loaded truck. The horse could not walk with—
out great physical pain, and was taken to the veterinary
hospital in the Society’s ambulance. Tessler plead guilty to
the charge of cruelty to the horse, and was sentenced to pay
a ﬁne of twenty—ﬁve.dollars or be imprisoned for ten days
by Judges Holbrook. Hinsdale. and Jerome, of the Court of
Special Sessions of the First Division.

Harry Weilandt was arrested for driving a horse attached
to a loaded wagon while the animal was suffering from
sores on the body unprotected from the harness. The de-
fendant, on being arraigned before the City Magistrate,
stated that he was compelled to drive the horse or other~
wise lose his job, and stated that William Goubard, the
owner of the animal, knew its condition when it left the
stable. Goubard was arrested, held for trial, and convicted
in the Court of Special Sessions of the Second Division,
Judges Fleming. Fitzgerald. and Courtney presiding, and

' sentenced to pay a ﬁne of thirty dollars. In the case of

Weilandt sentence was suspended.

One of the worst cases prosecuted by the Society during

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Sept. 16.

Sept. 17.

Sept. 21.,

Sept. 21.

Sept. 21.

50

Jacobs, MeKean, and Holbrook, of the Court of‘ Special Ses-
sions of the First Division.

Charles Heits, for causing and permitting one Hugh Toed-
ter to drive a horse belonging to the said Heits while the
animal was in a lame, weak, and emaciated condition, was
sentenced to pay a ﬁne of ﬁfty dollars by the Court of Special
Sessions of the Second Division, Judge Fitzgerald presiding.
Hugh Toedter was also arrested, but in his case sentence

was suspended.
0

“John Downey,” said presiding Judge Fleming, of the
Court of Special Sessions of the Second Division, “ you are
charged with beating a horse upon the head with the butt
end of a whip, also striking the horse with a stone in the
face, injuring the left eye. What have you to say?” The
defendant made a rambling defence, which no one. could
understand but himself, which had no effect upon the mind
of the Judge, who imposed the sentence of ﬁfty dollars or
imprisonment for twenty days.

John Gunning, for causing and permitting a horse owned
by him to be driven and tortured by Henry Douglas, was
sentenced to pay a ﬁne of twenty—ﬁve dollars by the Court
of Special Sessions of the Second Division, Judge Fitzgerald
presiding. The veterinary surgeon testiﬁed at the trial of
Gunning that the horse was suffering from quittor, a very
painful and incurable disease of the foot, which caused the
animal great physical suffering. Other witnesses testiﬁed
to the decrepit condition of the horse. The presiding Judge
warned Gunning that a repetition of the offence would re:
sult in a more severe punishment.

George Meilus was sentenced to pay a ﬁne of twenty-ﬁve

.dollars or be imprisoned for ten days by Judges Holbrook,

Hinsdale, and Jacobs, of the Court of Special Sessions of the
First Division, for compelling a horse to haul a loaded ex-
press wagon while the animal was suffering from lameness
in the near front foot caused by a festered corn. The veter-
inary surgeon testiﬁed that the horse was in a deplorable
condition and suffering great pain.

For carrying live chickens in a cruel and inhuman manner
namely, with their legs tied together, heads hanging down—

 

 




 

Sept. 23.

Sept. 25.

Sept. 26.

Oct. I.

Oct. I.

Oct. I.

51

ward, in which condition the defendant had thrown them
over his shoulder, causing the foWls great physical pain—
Samuel Jacobs was ﬁned ﬁfteen dollars by the Court of
Special Sessions of the First Division, Judges Jacobs, Hol—
brook, and MCKean presiding.

Christ Hogan was arrested by the Society's Special Agent,
resident of Yonkers, N. Y., for over—driving, torturing, and
cruelly beating two horses attached to a coach. It appeared
from the evidence that the defendant had driven the horses
nearly forty miles at their utmost speed. and when stopped
by the Society’s ofﬁcer they were in a most deplorable con—
dition and could hardly walk to the stable. The defendant
was convicted of Cruelty to animals and sentenced to pay a
ﬁne of thirty—ﬁve dollars or be imprisoned for thirty—ﬁve
days by City Judge William C. Kellogg. '

Nelson Shores, of Catskill, for neglecting to provide neces—
sary sustenance, food, and drink for a horse, was convicted
by a jury and sentenced to pay a ﬁne of ten dollars by Police
Justice Oliver Bourke.

Giovanni Viligio, for compelling a decrepit horse to pull
a wagon loaded with ice, was ﬁned twenty-ﬁve dollars by the
Court of Special Sessions of the First Division. Judges Hins—
dale, Holbrook, and Jacobs presiding. The animal was
humanely destroyed.

The Court of Special Sessions of the First Division, Judges
McKean, Hinsdale, and Jacobs presiding. sentenced Hugh
Mullin to pay a ﬁne of twenty—ﬁve dollars or be imprisoned
for ten days, for having compelled a horse, while suffering
from sores on the body, unprotected from the harness, to
haul a loaded cart.

Giuseppe Marquia was sentenced by the Court of Special
Sessions of the First Division, Judge McKean presiding, to
pay a ﬁne of twenty-ﬁve dollars or be imprisoned for ten
days upon conviction of having compelled a horse while
lame, weak, and sore to haul a wagon loaded with ice.

Joseph McGinnis was convicted in the Court of Special
Sessions of the First Division, Judge McKean presiding. and

 




 

 

 

 
 
 

 

  
 
 
  
   
 
 

 

 

 

   
 

 

Oct. 3.

Oct. 3.

  

52

sentenced to pay a ﬁne of ten dollars or be imprisoned for
ten days, for having incited two cats to ﬁght. The defendant
with several others had formed an impromptu pit on the
sidewalk. McGinnis was the only one captured and he re-
fused to give the names of his confederates.

Lame, sore, weak, and feeble was the condition of the
horse Dominick Perry was urging to haul a loaded wagon up
a steep incline. The sore on the animal’s breast measured
two by three inches and was unprotected from the harness
and in a very painful condition. The defendant was ﬁned
ﬁfteen dollars, with the alternative of imprisonment for ten
days by the Court of Special Sessions of the First Division,
Judge Holbrook presiding.

Benjamin Golden pleaded guilty to having driven a horse
while the animal was in a sore, weak, and exhausted condi—
tion, and was sentenced to pay a ﬁne of twenty—ﬁve dollars
or be imprisoned for ﬁve days by Judges McKean, Holbrook,
and Hinsdale of the Court of Special Sessions of the First
Division. '

John Irvine was driving a very lame horse attached to a
cart loaded with ashes. The animal could not put the nigh
fore foot to the ground without great physical pain and suf-
fering. The condition of the horse attracted the attention of
a lady who remonstrated with Irvine for driving the horse
in that condition, and requested that he take it to the stable
or to the hospital for treatment. This he refused to do and
continued to urge the horse along. The lady followed and
caused his arrest. The horse was taken to the veterinary
hospital for treatment and Irvine to the station house. He
was subsequently arraigned before the Court of Special Ses—
sions, Judge McKean presiding, and sentenced to pay a ﬁne
of twenty—ﬁve dollars or be imprisoned for ten days.

In sentencing Benjamin Adler, Judge McKean, presiding
judge of the Court of Special Sessions of the First Division,
took occasion to warn the defendant that if he was ever
brought to trial on a similar charge, a much more severe
punishment would be meted out to him. Defendant was
convicted and sentenced to pay a ﬁne of thirty-ﬁve dollars or
be imprisoned fOr ten days in the City Prison, for compelling

 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  

 

  
    
 

  
   
  

 




 

Oct. 17.

Oct. 18.

Oct. 20.

Nov. 4.

Nov. IO.

‘53

a horse, while suffering from sores on the back and breast
unprotected from the harness, to haul a loaded wagon. -The
animal was in a decrepit condition otherwise. ‘

For exposing upon the streets and offering for sale a horse
having the contagious disease known as glanders, Pasquale
Iarussi was sentenced to pay a ﬁne of ﬁfty dollars or be im-
prisoned for thirty days. The diseased animal was humanely
destroyed.

For wantonly mutilating a dog by cutting off its tail with
a knife, Walter Dunn was sentenced to be imprisoned for
thirty days‘by the Court of Special Sessions of the First
Division, Judges McKean, Jacobs, and Hinsdale presiding.

Herman Heyman was sentenced to pay a ﬁne of ten dol-
lars or be imprisoned for three days by the Court of Special
Sessions of the First Division, Judges M‘cKean, Hinsdale,
and Jacobs presiding, for carrying live chickens in a cruel and
inhuman manner. The fowls were tied by the legs and
thrown together in a heap in the bottom of a wagon. \Vhen
found, several of them were nearly smothered.

A beautiful St. Bernard dog owned by the Suburban Driv-
ing Club was found lying dead by its kennel. A trail of
blood was traced from the kennel to the rear of a shanty
about a mile distant occupied by Arthur Wilkie. Evidence
of a struggle and blood stains leading toward the entrance
of the dwelling were found. Investigating further, officers
found on the mantel shelf a large jack—knife, the blade meas—
uring over four inches long, sharp as a razor and on which
there were dried blood stains. Wilkie occupied the cabin
alone and the St. Bernard was seen around the premises
about the time Wilkie arrived home from lis day’s work.
He was arrested on suspicion of having stabbed the dog.
The evidence obtained was overwhelming and convinced the
Court of Special Sessions of the First Division. Judge Hol-
brook presiding, that Wilkie killed the dog, and he was sen—
tenced to be imprisoned for six months in the penitentiary.

.For jerking the reins attached to the bit in a horse’s
mouth and kicking the animal in the stomach several times,
Henry Luxenburg was sentenced to pay a ﬁne of twenty-ﬁve

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Nov. 20.

Nov. 21.

Dec. 6.

Dec. 7.

54

dollars or be imprisoned for ten days, by Judges Jerome,
Holbrook, and Hinsdale, of the Court of Special Sessions
of the First Division.

Sidney Johnson, for driving a team of horses attached to
a truck loaded with brick, while both animals were suffering
from sores on the body unprotected from the harness, was
sentenced to pay a ﬁne of twenty—ﬁve dollars or be impris—
oned for ten days by the Court of Special Sessions of the
First Division, Judge Holbrook presiding. The veterinary
surgeon testiﬁed that the sores were of long standing and had
been neglected and caused the animals intense suffering.

For wantonly shooting a dog in the head, Benjamin
Bryant was sentenced to pay a ﬁne of ﬁfty dollars or be im-
prisoned for twenty days by Judges Holbrook, Jacobs, and
McKean of the Court of Special Sessions of the First Divi-
sion. It appeared from the evidence that Bryant frequented
a poolroom kept by the owner of the dog. He had been
ordered to keep away from the premises on account of some
trouble that he had made on several occasions. He likewise
had in some way incurred the enmity of the dog. At the
time of the shooting the dog was sitting on the table and
growled as Bryant passed by, upon which the latter pulled a
pistol from his pocket and shot the dog as above stated. .

For torturing andtormenting a horse, George Hirschleff,
of Brooklyn, was sentenced to pay a ﬁne of ten dollars by
the Court of Special Sessions of the Second Division, Judge
Fitzgerald presiding. Eye—witnesses to the cruelty testiﬁed
that the defendant ﬁrst pulled at the bit most cruelly, then
jabbed the animal in the stomach with the butt end of the
whipstock, and ﬁnally wound up by lashing the horse on the
body and head with the whip.

The horse Hugo Warfause was driving at the time of his
arrest was described by a witness as a “living skeleton.”
The animal was aged, weak, decrepit, and suffering in its
body as well as limbs. VVarfause said he knew nothing about
horses, but thought his horse was in ﬁrst—rate condition, and.
judging from what he paid for it, viz., ﬁfteen dollars, was well
able to work. The Court of Special Sessions, Judges Hol-

 

 




 

 

Dec. 24.

Dec. 28.

55

brook, Jacobs, and Jerome, imposed a ﬁne of twenty-ﬁve dol-
lars or imprisonment for ten days.

For kicking a dog in the belly and head in a cruel manner,
Alfred Pater was sentenced to pay a ﬁne of twenty-ﬁve dol-
lars or serve ten days in jail by the Court of Special Sessions,
First Division, Judge Holbrook presiding. The complaining
witness testiﬁed that she remonstrated with Pater and begged
him not to abuse the dog, but he paid no heed to her plea
for mercy and continued to abuse the animal, when she had
him arrested.

A poor old bay horse, attached to a loaded wagon, fell on
Fifth Avenue from sheer weakness. W'illiam McAuliff, the
driver, stated the horse had been laid up for several weeks,
but his boss got busy and the convalescent equine was put to
work. From Morrisania to Barclay Street is a long drive,
and. with being compelled to haul a wagon loaded to its
fullest capacity with merchandise. what little vitality the old
horse possessed gave out at Twenty—ninth Street. The horse
was carefully carried in the ambulance to the hospital, where
everything known to veterinary science was done for its re—
lief, but in vain. “ Too far gone,” said the veterinary, and
further suffering was mercifully ended. McAuliff was sen-
tenced to pay a ﬁne of ﬁfty dollars or be imprisoned for
twenty days by the Court of Special Sessions, First Division,
Judges Holbrook, Jerome, and Jacobs.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

      
 

m

u I ‘

'~RNA!.

RTHE

 

OF
x ANIMALS

 

i

a NEW YORK '

OUR ANIMAL FRIENDS

A/V ILLUSTRA TED [llO/VTHLY ﬂ/lAGAZINE

THE ORGAN OF

The American Society for the Prevention of

Cruelty to Animals.

 

CONTAINING ORIGINAL AND INSTRUCTIVE ARTICLES OF INTEREST TO ALL ANIMAL OWNERS

HEADQUARTERS NOTES COURT NOTES
THE LIBRARY THE VETERINARIAN

YOUNG PEOPLE’S MUSEUM, ETC.

Also Serial and Short Stories and Interesting Miscellany by Well-KnownWriters

SUBSCRIPTION, ONE DOLLAR PER YEAR

Published at the Headquarters of the Society, Madison Avenue and
Twenty-sixth Street, New York

 

 




 

 

DRINKING FOUNTAINS FOR MAN AND
BEAST.

There is great need for additional drinking fountains for man
and beast. The Society has already erected many and is increas—
ing the number as fast as its funds will allow. A most appropri-
ate donation could be made by friends of animals, by the erection
of fountains under the direction of the Society, and bearing the
names of the donors. The cost of erecting a fountain similar to
that represented in the above illustration, including plate with
name of donor, is, in the City of New York, about two hundred

and ﬁfty dollars.

 




 

SOCIETIES OF NORTH AND SOUTH
AMERICA.
SOCIETIES IN NORTH AND SOUTH AMERICA ORGANIZED AND INCOR-
PORATEI) SINCE THE FORMATION OF THE AMERICAN SOCIETY

FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS—THE
PAREN I‘ SOCIETY—AND IN CORRESPONDENCE WITH IT.

NEW YORK.

THE AMERICAN SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF
CRUELTY T0 ANIMALS.

Incorporated April 10, 1866.
HEADQUARTERS:
Madison Ave. and 26th St, NEM/ YORK.
JOHN P. HAINES, President. JOHN MASON KNOX, Sec.
BROOKLYN OFFICE:
I3 W t/tou ghhy Street.
F. O. CLARK, Inspector.

 

ALABAMA.
Mobile Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
16 South Royal Street, Mobile.

DR. JOSEPH B. PATT, Pres. MAJOR E. R. QUATTLEBAUM,
Secretary.

Birmingham Humane Society.
715 Eighteenth Street, Birmingham.
REV. SAMUEL ULLMAN. Pres. DR. A. N. BALLARD, Secretary.
ARIZONA.

Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals of Tucson, Ariz.

 

. Tucson.
WM. HERRING, President. . Secretary.

 

 




  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

62

 
 

ARKANSAS.

Arkansas Humane Society.

Little Rock.

 

 

LOUIS BLASS, President. R. W. PORTER, Secretary.
CALIFORNIA.
The San Francisco Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals.
403 Parrott Building, San Francisco.
N. P. COLE, President. C. B. HOLBROOK, Secretary.

The Los Angeles Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Los Angeles.

‘DR. T. A. SEYMOUR, Pres. . MRS. ELIZABETH MILLS

MILLARD, Secretary.

Santa Clara County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals. '

24 ll/est Santa Clara Street, San Jose.
DR. M. A. SOUTHWORTH, Pres. DANIEL C. BAILEY, Sec.
San Diego Humane Society.
San Diego.
ARTHUR G. NASON, Pres. H. H. PALMER, Secretary.
The Sacramento County Humane Society.
424 “ K ” Street, Sacramento.
R. C. IREVIN, President. I. SCHAD, Secretary.
The Oakland Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
58 San Pablo Avenue, Oakland.
BEN]. F. MILLS, Pres. FRED JOHNS, Secretary.

Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals of San Bernardino
County, Cal.

Redlands.
EZRA CROSSMAN, President. , Sec.

Santa Barbara Humane Society.

 

1003 Stall Street, Santa Barbara. _
RONALD THOMAS, President. EDWARD T. BALCH, Sec.

 




 

 

63

Santa Cruz County Humane Society.
Santa Cruz.

DR. C. L. ANDERSON, Pres. MRS. D. T. VVILKIN, Secretary.
Fresno Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Fresno.

W. B. PARSONS, President. WM. HARVEY, Secretary.
Marin County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Sansalito.

A. SYLVA, President. DR. C. E. CASE, Secretary.
COLORADO.

Colorado Humane Society.
5 Jacobson Building, Denver.

WALTER S. CHEESMAN, E. K. WHITEHEAD, Secretary.
President.
El Paso County Branch of the Colorado Humane Society.

Colorado Springs.

WM. F. SLOCUM, President. F. B. HILL-Secretary.
CONNECTICUT.
The Connecticut Humane Society. »
Hartford.
REV. WM. DE LOSS LOVE, CHANDLER E. MILLER, Sec.
President.

The New Haven Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
N ew H aven.

PROF. WM. H. BREWER, Pres. EDWIN A. SMITH, Secretary.
Meriden Humane Society.

M eriden.
MRS. MARY J. ROGERS, Pres. MRS. FRANCES W. HAM-
M O N D, Secretary.
DELAWARE.

Delaware Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
606 Market Street, Wilmington.

DR. EVAN G. SHORTLIDGE, WILLARD H. PORTER, Sec.
President.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

6-4

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
The Washington Humane Society.
1430 F Street, N. l/V., Vl/aslziiigton, D. C.
CHESTER A. SNOW, Pres. MRS. W. F. STOVVELL, Sec.

FLORIDA.
St. Augustine Humane Society.
_ 5 t. Augustine.

W'ARD G. FOSTER, President. LOUIS LARSON. Secretary.
The Jacksonville Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Jacksonville.

O. PIERRE HAVENS, Pres. B. H. CHADVVICK, Secretary.
The Pensacola Humane Society.
Pensacola.

THOS. C. WATSON, President. LLSLIE E. BROOKS. Sec.
Hillsborough County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals.

Tam/9a.
W. G. BARTHOLOMEW, Pres. MISS JENNY E. BABBITT, Sec.

 

GEORGIA. .
Georgia Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
I M cIiitosh Street, Augusta.
HON. HENRY B. KING. Pres. S. R. CRAIG, Secretary.
Atlanta Humane Society.
Atlanta.
I. F. BARCLAY, President. ORVILLE H. HALL, Sec.
Brunswick Humane Society.

Brunswick.
WM. C. DOWNING, President. MRS. I. E. DU BIGNON, Sec.

 

ILLINOIS.
The Illinois Humane Society.
. 560 Wabash Avenue, Chicago.
JOHN G. SHORTALL, Pres. BELDEN F. CULVER, Sec.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

STEEL GAS TANK FOR THE HUMANE DESTRUCTION OF SMALL ANIMALS

Shelter for Animals, 102d Street and East River, New York. (See description, page 157.)

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

STEEL GAS TANK FOR THIS IIUMANE DES'I‘RUCI‘ION OF SXHLI.

\NIMALS

Shelter f<>1m\ni1mls, 102d Street and [Cast RiVCI New York. Sec (luscription, page 157.

 

3

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

68

INDIANA.
The Indiana Humane Society.
42 Lombard Building, Indianapolis.
HORACE MCKAY, President. JAMES SMITH, Secretary.

Montgomery County Humane Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals and Children.

C rawf ordsw'lle.
GEORGE W. PAUL, President. A. H. BRADEN, Secretary.

The Evansville Humane Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Women, Children, and Animals. ‘

315 Upper Fourth Street, Evansville.
S. S. SCANTLIN, President. WILL WARREN, Secretary.
Fort Wayne Humane Society.
82 Clinton Street, Fort W ayne.
A. H. BITTINGER, President. C. E. ARCHER, Secretary.
The South Bend Humane Society.
South Bend.
C. O. WILDER, President. H. A. PERSHING, Secretary.
Terre Haute Humane Society.
Terre H ante.
DR. E. E. GLOVER, President. DR. E. B. MCALLISTER. Sec.
Muncie Humane Society.
, M uncle.
DR. T. J. BOWLES, President. W. R. MOORE, Secretary.
The Elkhart Humane Society.
206 M ain Street, Ellehart.
A. P. KENT, President. LOUIS M. SIMPSON, Sec.
Wayne County Humane Society.
Richmond.
J. EDGAR ILIFF, President. MRS. FRANK M. CLARK, See.
The Humane Society of Peru, Ind.
Peru.
JOHN L. MILLER, President. MRS. M. PUTERBAUGH, Sec.

 

 




 

 

69

Kokomo Humane Society.

Koleomo.
E. N. COLE, President. MISS MINNIE A. TRUE-
, BLOOD, Secretary.
IOWA.

The Iowa Humane Society.
Des Moines.
JAMES CALLANAN, Pres. GRACE A. COOPER, Secretary.

The Sioux City Humane Society.
Sioux City.
REV. GEO. H. CORNELL, Pres. EDWARD CROMVVELL, Sec.

 

KANSAS.
The Kansas Humane Society.
LV’ichita.
J. M. KNAPP, President. MRS. E. G. ROBERTS, Sec.

The Foster Humane Society.
Topeka.
ABRAM \VYMAN, President. SAM RADGES, Secretary.

——

KENTUCKY.
Kentucky Humane Society for Prevention of Cruelty.
Alasom'c Temple, 41 I West Green Street, Louisville.
IOHN H. LEATHERS, Pres. MISS BERTHA WILSON, Sec.

Henderson Humane Society.
Henderson.
, President. INGRAM CROCKETT, Sec.

 

Franklin County Humane Society.
Frankfort.
LOUIS MANGAN. President. B. T. FARMER, Secretary.
The Kenton County Humane Society.
915 Scott Street, Com'ngton.
H. A. SCHROETTER, Pres. MRS. FRANCES C. MANSER,

Secretary.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   
 

7O

LOUISIANA.
Louisiana State Society for Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
606 C o'nnnercz'al Place, N ew Orleans.

FREDERICK W. YOUNG, MRS. FLORENCE SCHAFF-
President. TER,‘ Secretary.

MAINE.
Maine State Society for the Protection of Animals.

Portland.

HON. STANLEY T. PULLEN, DR. H. C. VAUGHAN, Sec.
President. ,

 

 

The Bangor Humane Society.
Bangor.
JOSEPH F. SNOW, President. MRS. M. L. PATTEN, Secretary.

Waterville Society for Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

. l'l/aterw'lle.

H. L. EMERY, President. H B. SNELL, Secretary.
Lewiston and Auburn Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals.

Lezulston.

WESLEY BLANCHARD, Pres. F. B. SANDS, Secretary.

 

MARYLAND.

The Maryland Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals. ,
323 North C lzarles Street, Baltimore.
WM.VVHITRIDGE, M.D., Pres. ROBT. B. HANSELL, Sec.

 

MASSACHUSETTS.
The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals.
19 Milk Street, Boston.
GEO. T. ANGELL, President. JOSEPH L. STEVENS, Sec.
Taunton Humane Society. '
18 Clinton Street. Taunton.
REV. T. CLAYTON WELLES, MRS. THOS. J. TAYLOR, Sec.

President.




I71

The Lowell Humane Society.
71 Central Street, Lowell.

FRED'K A. FISHER, Pres. MRS. GEO. P. RICHARDSON,
Secretary.

MICHIGAN.
Michigan Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Detroit.
HON. T. W. PALMER, Pres. O. B. SCOTT, Secretary.

Kent County Humane Society.
Grand Rapid-s.
Rev]. HERRMAN RANDALL, A. C. TORREY, Secretary.
President.
Kalamazoo Humane Society.
Kalamazoo.
SAMUEL FOLZ, President. CARI. G. FLHCNSTUCK, Sec.

 

MINNESOTA.
The Minnesota Society for the Prevention of Cruelty.
Relief Society Building, 141 East N int/i Street, 5 t. Paul.
DANIEL R. NOYES, President. THOMAS A. ABBOTT, Sec.

Minneapolis Humane Society.
504 Bank of'Commeree Building, Mirmeapolis.
FRANK H. FORBES, Pres. MRS. C. A. MEISER, Secretary.

Duluth Humane Society.
211 Trust Building. Duluth. .
'REV. A. W. RYAN, President. H.W. MERCHANT, Secretary.

St. Paul Society for Prevention of Cruelty.
’ Chamber of Commerce Building, St. Paul.
W. L. WILSON, President. MRS. C. H. GOODRICH, Sec.
Steele County Humane Society.
Owatorma.
B. S. COOK, President. DR. W. AMOS, Secretary.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

72

The Winona Humane Society.
Winona.
REV. ALLAN BELL, President. MRS. E. W. WILLIAMS, Sec.

St. Cloud Humane Society.
St. Cloud. ,
WM. B. MITCHELL, President. J. I. DONOHUE, Secretary.

The Red Wing Humane Society.

Red Wing.
A. J. MEACHAM, President. DR. F. W. DIMMITT, Secretary.
Rochester Humane Society.
Rochester. .
REV. J. F. TAINTOR, Pres. WENDELL VINE, Secretary.
Stillwater Humane Society.
Stillwater.
.G. E. CLARK, President. FRANK T. WILSON, Secretary.
MISSISSIPPI.
The Mississippi Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
_ Natchez. '
WM. B. ABBOTT, President. ALEX. H. PEALE, Secretary.
MISSOURI.

The Humane Society of Missouri.
511 Commercial Bz/tilding, St. Louis.
H. N. DAVIS, President. JOHN H. HOLMES, Secretary.

The Woman’s Humane Society of Missouri.
3401 Washington Avenue, St. Louis.
MRS. T. G. COMSTOCK. Pres. Miss AGNUS BRADY, See.

The Humane Society of Kansas City, Mo.
City Hall, Kansas City.

HON. EDWIN R. WEEKS. F. M. FURGASON, Secretary.
President.

 

 




 

 

 

73

The Humane Society of St. Joseph, Mo.
. Central Poh'ee S tatton, St. Joseph.
HUSTON WYETH, President. M. B. TOWNSEND, Secretary.

The Humane Society of Sedalia, Mo.
' S edaha.
H. T. WILLIAMS, President. LEE MONTGOMERY, Sec.

 

NEBRASKA.
The Nebraska Humane Society.
I 5 Commercial National Bank Building, Omaha.
DR. GEO. L. MILLER, Pres. H. S. MANN, Secretary.

The South Omaha Humane Society.
S oath Omaha.

COL. J. L. MARTIN, President. MISS GERTIE PARKHURST,
Secretary.

——

NEW HAMPSHIRE.
New Hampshire Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
I Market Street, Portsmouth.
JOHN J. PICKERING, Pres. JAMES R. MAY, Secretary.

The Keene Humane Society.
Keene.
HORATIO COLONY, Pres. MRS. JOSEPH MADDEN, Sec.

.—

NEW JERSEY.
The New Jersey Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
507 Prudential Building, Newark.
, President. COL. E. S. EDWARDS, Sec.

 

The Hudson County District Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals.
201% York Street, Jersey C ity.
GEORGE M. MCCARTHY, FRANCIS A. REGAN, Sec.

President.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1900

ZED IN

S El

{ E

TORT U I

INST RUMENTS Ol’

SOME

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

' \‘\\\\\\\

\\\\

LiAHEHIQJ?

T RANSI’O R'l‘INUr SMALL

 

 

 




   
   

1L4 VLLL‘L‘ALJA~

1J1 \/ .L \/.|

 

 

77
Passaic County District Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals.

119 Ellison S trcet, Paterson.

—— RYERSON, President. EUGENE PULIS, Secretary.
Somerset County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
S orncrvz'lle. .
JOSEPH FITZGA, President. 7 JOHN VOORHEES, Secretary.
Princeton Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Princeton.
W. B. GREENE, JR., President. MISS M. C. SCUDDER, Sec.
District Society in Lodi, Bergen County.
, Lodi.

JAMES W. MERCER, Pres. JACOB VAN HOOK, Secretary.
Ridgewood Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Ridgcwood.

MRS. C. C. HARRISON, Pres. Mks. E. J. W'ALTON, Secretary.

Humane Association of New Jersey.
N (”71.77 r/c.
MRS. J. N. SAYRE, President.’ Mns. ALBERT BATES, Sec.

 

NEW YORK.
WESTCHESTER COUNTY.

‘ The Sing Sing Branch of The American Society for the Prevention

of Cruelty to Animals.
Incorporated March 12, 1883.
Sing Sing.
CLINTON S. ARNOLD, Pres. MRS. JULIUS JENKS, See.

MONROE COUNTY.
The Humane Society of Rochester, N. Y., for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals.

Incorporated August 9, 1888.

723 Powers Bloc/e. Rochester.
T. B. Y. WARNER. President. Mrss E. M. AMSDEN, Secretary.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
      

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

78

   

ERIE COUNTY.

The Erie County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Incorporated September 21, 1888.
39 Erie Street, Buﬁ‘alo.
DEWITT CLINTON, President. J. C. HALL, Secretary.

DUTCHESS COUNTY.

The Poughkeepsie Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals.
Incorporated May '18, 1889.
305 M ill Street, Poughleeepsle.

WILLIAM B. CARPENTER, CHARLES F. COSSUM, Sec.
President.

ORANGE COUNTY.

The Newburg‘ Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Incorporated July 22, 1889.

N ewbur g.

 

GEORGE W. PETERS, Pres. A. E. LAYMAN, Secretary.

OSVVEGO COUNTY.

Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals of Oswego City,
N. Y.

Incorporated September 23, 1889.
Doolittle House, Oswego.
CHAS. H. BOND, President. MRS. G. M. GARDENIER, Serf.

Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals of the Village of
Fulton, N. Y. .

Incorporated November 17, 1891.
Fulton.
THOMAS HUNTER, President. MRS. C. H. DAVID, Secretary.

ONONDAGA COUNTY.

The Central New York Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
, Animals.

Incorporated January 16, 1891.
207 Granger Block. Syracuse.
DWIGHT H. BRUCE, Pres. JOHN R. CLANCY, Secretary.

 

 




 

 

79

ROCKLAND CO UNTY.

Rockland County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Incorporated February 20, 1891.

Nyacla.
, President. WILLIAM K. COLSEY, Sec.

CHEMUNG COUNTY.

The Elmira Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
’ Incorporated February 21, 1891.

Elmira.
DR. FRANK H. FLOOD, Pres. MRS. SEYMOUR DEXTER,

Secretary.
BROOME COUNTY. '

Broome County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

 

Incorporated March 23, I891.
Bing/zamton.

ULSTER COUNTY.

The Ulster County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals.

Incorporated July 25, 1891.
Kingston.
JOHN MCENTEE, President. W. D. HALE, Secretary.

JEFFERSON COUNTY.
Jefferson County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Incorporated December 5, 1891.
W atcrtown.
JNO. C. KNOWLTON. MRS. GEO. H. BABCOCK, Sec.
Acting President. .

ALBANY COUNTY.

The Mohawk and HudSon {River Humane Society.
Incorporated March 8, 1892.
287 State Street, Albany.

DR. WM. 0. STILLMAN. Pres. NATHANIEL J. WALKER.

Secretary.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   
 
 
  
 
    
  
 
    
  
     
   
   
 
   
 
  
    
  
     

80

NIAGARA COUNTY.

The Niagara County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals.
Incorporated May 24, 1895.

Lockport.

Miss ALICE E. CROCKER,

F. J. SAVVYER, President.
Secretary.

CORTLAND COUNTY.
The Cortland County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals.
Incorporated April 17, 1895.

Cortland.
C. P. VVALRAD, President. ENOS E. MELLON, Secretary.

ONEIDA COUNTY.
The Stevens Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals of
9 Rome, N. Y.
Incorporated March 31, 1896.
Rome.

DR. C. OLIN ZIMMERMANN, WELLINGTON W. BASSET,
President. Secretary.

CAYUGA COUNTY.

The Cayuga County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals.
Incorporated October 26, 1896.

Auburn.
' GEO. A. BREWSTER, Sec.

—_

NORTH CAROLINA. '

The North Carolina Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals.

 

F. C. LADD, President. .

I7 Paragon Building, Aslzem'lle.

HANFORD N. LOCKWOOD.
President.

 

, Secretary.

North Carolina Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children.
and Animals.
Wilmington.

ALEX. S. HEIDE, President. P. HEINSBERGER, Secretary.




 

81

OHIO.
The Ohio Humane Society.
24 East Ninth Street, Cincinnati.
BENJAMIN C. SMITH, Pres. MISS CECILIA RITTER, Sec.
Cleveland Humane Society.
Cleveland.
GEN. JAMES BARNETT, Pres. SAMUEL D. DODGE, Sec.
The Canton Humane Society.
Frazer Bloc/e, Canton.
W. W. CLARK, President. CHARLES R. FRAZER, Sec.
Humane Society of the City of Columbus, Ohio.
Columbus.
JULIUS F. STONE, President. FRANK HUMPHREYS, Sec.

Toledo Humane Society.

313 Adams Street, Toledo.

HON. JAMES. M. BROWN, W. W. H. SMITH, Secretary.
President.

The Trumbull County Humane Society.
Warren.
GEORGE P. HUNTER, Pres. MARY C. IDDINGS, Secretary.

Dayton, Ohio, Humane Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Children and Animals.

Dayton. .
Athens Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Athens.
L. A. KOONS, President. MRS. A. J. FRAME, Secretary.
The Erie County Humane Society. ‘
Sandusky.
JOHN C. HAUSER, Pres. MRS. FANNY F. EVERETT.

Secretary.
Scioto County Humane Society.

Portsmouth.
E. E. EWING. President. HARRY BALL, Secretary.
6

 

 

 

 

 

 




   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 

83
The Lima Branch of The Ohio Humane Society.

Lima.

R. C. EASTMAN, President. MRS. E. B. SEREFF, Secretary.

 

OREGON.
The Oregon Humane Society.
207 S eeond Street, Portland.
DAVID P. THOMPSON, Pres. W. T. SHANAHAN, Secretary.

 

PENNSYLVANIA.

The Pennsylvania Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals.

1627 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia.

COL. M.RICHARDSMUCKLE, M. V. B. DAVIS, Secretary.
President.

The Women’s Pennsylvania Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals.

I 530 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia.

MRS. R. P. WHITE, President. MISS ELIZABETH SOMERS,
Secretary.

Lancaster County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals.
Lancaster.

D. S. BURSK, President. JOHN L. MARTIN, Secretary.

"The York County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
York.

CHAS. A. KLINEFELTER. H. W. MCCALL, Secretary.
President.

Western Pennsylvania Humane Society.
440 S ixth Avenue, Pittsburg.
HON. GEORGE W'ILSON, Pres. T. M. PORTER, Secretary.

 

 

 

    
 
 
 
  
   
 
   

 

 

  

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

     
 

84

The Chester County Auxiliary of the Women’s Branch of The
Pennsylvania Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

West Chester.
MRS. S. C. MASSEY, President. WILLIAM S. KIRK, Secretary.

Berks County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
536 Penn Street, Reading.

 

 

JOHN D. MISHLER, President. , Secretary.
Lycoming County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals.
W illiamsport.
MRS. C. LA RUE MUNSON, MRS. JAMES P. HERDIC, Sec.
President.

Lackawanna Branch of The Pennsylvania Society for the Preven-
tion of Cruelty to Animals.

Scranton.

JOHN M. leMMERER, D. B. ATHERTON, Sec.

President.

Northwestern Pennsylvania Humane Society.
Erie.

HON. F. F. ADAMS, President. HON. W. B. FLICKINGER. Sec.
Luzerne County Humane Association for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Children and Animals.

W ilkesbarre.

JOHN N. CONYNGHAM. HAROLD D. DEEMER. Sec.
President.

 

The Central Pennsylvania Humane Society.

Altoona.
MRS. ELIZABETH O. STRAT- MISS SIDNEY COLESTOCK,
TAN, President. Secretary.

 

RHODE ISLAND.
Rhode Island Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

61 Westminster Street, Providence.

 

 

 

 

. President. ‘ JOHN W. ANGELL, Secretary.

 

 




 

 

 

   
   
  
  
 

85

SOUTH CAROLINA.

The South Carolina Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals.

Charleston.
J. ALWYN BALL, President. . SL‘CI‘CtEII‘Y-

 

Richland County, South Carolina, Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals.

Columbia.
TILMAN WATSON, President. D. R. ELENNIKEN, Secretary.

The Greenville Branch of The South Carolina Society for the Pre-
vention of Cruelty to Animals.

Greehvllle.
DR. H. M. PERRY, President. FRANK B. MCBEE, Secretary.

The Spartanburg‘ Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

 

Spartanbarg.
J. B. LEE, M.D., President. CHARLES H. HENNRY. Sec.
TENNESSEE.
Tennessee Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals and
Children.

337 Mississippi Avenue, Memphis.
GEN. W. J. SMITH, President. M. I... h’lEACHAM. Act'g‘ Sec.

Chattanooga Humane Society.
Chattanooga.
W. B. STEPHENS, President. J. C. MCGHEE, Secretary.

Knox County Humane Society.
Knoxville. ,
W. L. TRENT, President. REV. W. H. BATES, Secretary.

Nashville Humane Society.
Nashville.
REV. D. C. KELLEY, President. MAT HOKE, Secretary.

 

 

 
 
 

 
 
   

  
 
  
  
 

 

  

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

 

' DR. DOWNS, President.

 

 

   
 

86

The Madison County Humane. Society.
Jackson.
REV. M. A. MATTHEWS, Pres. L. R. GRIFFIN, Secretary.

 

TEXAS.

The Galveston Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

 

Galveston.
A. B. WOODY, Secretary.

The Texas Humane Society.
Waco.

ALFRED ABEEL, President. ROBERT J. BROOKS, Sec.
The Austin Humane Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals.

Austin.
MRS. I. H. EVANS, President. J. E. OLDRIGHT, Secretary.
UTAH.
Utah Humane Society.
Salt Lake C ity.
DR. T. B. BEATTY, President. J. W. GREENMAN, Secretary.
VERMONT.
The vermont Humane Society.
Chester.
GEO. H. \VALDRON, Pres. 'F. W. PIERCE, Secretary.
The Brattleborough Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals.
Brattleborough. 7
DR. GEO. F. GALE, President. MRS. MARY C. WARDER, Sec.

Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Ratland.

MISS ETHEL S. CLEMENT, '
Secretary.

 

T. L. DRURY, President.

 




 

 

 

  

87

The Burlington Humane Society.

 

Burlington.
J. E. GOODRICH, President. , Secretary.
Chester Humane Society.
Chester.
GEO. L. FLETCHER, Pres. MERRILL WRIGHT, See.

The Randolph Humane Society.
Randolph.
JAMES A. FOWLER, President. G. W. MORROW, Secretary.

Manchester Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Manchester.
HON. I. K. SIMONDS, Pres. Miss JESSIE O. HAWLEY,
Secretary.
VIRGINIA.

Richmond Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

900 East Alain Street, Richmond.

Mm PEARL BODEKER, Pres. NiRS. s. N. ROBINS, Secretary.

Norfolk Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
224 Main Street, Norfolk.
L. CLAY KILBY, President. W. B. BARTON, Secretary. .

Woman’s Humane Society of Virginia.
Portsmouth.
HERMANN C. NIEMEYER, MIss M. A. BINGLEY, Sec.
President.
The Lynchburg Humane Society.
Lynehburg.
P. A. KRISE, President. , Secretary.

 

WASHINGTON.
Tacoma Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Chamber of Commerce Building. Tacoma.
C. P. CULVER, President. H. K. MOORE, Secretary.

   
 
  
 
 
   
 
 
  
 
 
     
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
   

 

  

 

 




  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

88

Seattle Humane Society.

Seattle.

REV. A. L. HUTCHINSON, MRS. LAURENCE GRON-
President. LUND, Secretary.

WEST VIRGINIA.

West Virginia Humane Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Children and Animals.

Wheeling.
MRS. JOHN K. LIST, President. LEE LINGAMFETTER, Sec.

 

WISCONSIN.
The Wisconsin Humane Society.
495 M ilzvankee Street, Milwaukee.
ROLLIN B. MALLORY, Pres. Miss AGNES M. FURLONG,
Secretary.

The State Society has Branches at the following places:

Oshkosh, Sheboygan, Port Washington, Tomah, Stoughton, Hart-
land, Plymouth, Janesville, Beloit, Green Bay, Ashland, V'Vaukesha,
Delavan, La Crosse, Sturgeon, West Superior, Monroe, Fond du Lac,
Manitowoc, Racine, Berlin, Wausau, Madison, Tomahawk, Marinette,
Antigo, Eau Claire, Hartford, and Columbus.

 

BRITISH NORTH AMERICA.
The Nova Scotia Society for the Prevention of Cruelty.

79 Granville Street, Halifax.
CHARLES STUBBING, Pres. R. H. MURRAY, Secretary.

Hamilton Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
~ Hamilton.
ADAM BROWN, M.P., Pres. HENRY MCLAREN. Secretary.

Kingston Humane Society.
128 Barrie Street, Kingston.
G. J. B. PENSE, President. J. M. COTTLE, Secretary.

The Canadian Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

189 St. James Street, Montreal.

CHARLES ALEXANDER. GEORGE DURNFORD, Sec.
President. '

 

 

 

  

 




 

 

 

   
  
 
   
 
 
  
 
 

89

Ottawa Humane Society.
83 St. Peter Street, Ottawa.
MRS. GWYNNE, President. Mks. GEO. E. PERLEY, Sec.

Quebec Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Quebec.
JOHN T. ROSS, President. A. ROBERTSON, Secretary.

New Brunswick Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Ferry Building, L’Vater Street, St. John.
JOHN V. ELLIS, M.P., Pres. S. M. WETMORE, Secretary.

Toronto Humane Society.
103 Bay Street, Toronto.
W. R. BROCK, President. MISS DORA SPEARS, Sec.

Fredericton Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Fredericton.

REV. DR. PARTRIDGE, Pres. CHARLES A. SAMPSON, Sec.

Monoton Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
M oneton.
GEO. B. WILLETT, President. WILLIAM A. MCDOUGALL,
Secretary.
St. John’s Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
St. John's, Newfoundland.

SIR WM. V. WHITEWAY, Pres. GEO. M. JOHNSON, Secretary.

The Winnipeg Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
W innipeg, Manitoba.
REV.‘C. MATLESON. President. Miss M. LANT, Secretary.

Sherbrooke Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
S herbrooke.

WM. FARWELL. President. FRANK THOMPSON, Sec.

 

    
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
   

  

 




 

SOCIETIES OTHER THAN THOSE OF NORTH AND SOUTH AMERICA.

It will be gratifying to the friends of our cause to learn from the following list of kindred societies that the work
of animal protection has extended to almost every part of the world. Many of these societies are powerful organ-
izations, whose merciful inﬂuences have been felt abroad as wellas at home through the dissemination of humane
literature. The Royal Society at London was the ﬁrst in the world. It was organized in 1824, and now. has

branches in every considerable city of England.

 

LOCATION.

 

ALGERIA.
Algiers
Bona . .
Constantine
Oran . . .
Philippeville

AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide .
Brisbane

_M elbourne
Sydney

AUSTRIA-HUNGARY.
Agram .
Budapest
Carinthia
Czernowitz
Graz . .
Innsbruck
Karlstadt
Kascliau
Klagenfurt

 

 

 

: Styrian S. P.
.Tirolian S. P. A. .

NAM E OF SOCIETY.

 

 

P. A. of the Dept.
P. A. . . . . . .
Prot. A. . . . . . .
Prot. A.
Prot. A.

of Algiers

S. P. A. . . . .
S. P. C. A. .
Victorian S. Prot. A. .
.Animal P. S. N. S. W.

A. at Agram .
of .Cairinithia .

KAI

.Pr
.P.
.P.
.P.

ot.
C.
A.
A.

.S.P.A.. . .

 

 

.S.P.A..

is. P. A. foriKiirn‘teri

PRESIDENT.
|

.lDr. Collardot
.lG. C. .Zehgrel:
.J. G. Riviére.

: Walter H. Barnes .'
i P. N. Trebcc-k .'

.Josip Muzler . . . .
Isidor Maday de Moros
.F. F. Oertl . .
.Baron von h’lensshengen
.Albert Mone-

.Julia Ivancic . . .

 

 

iiFrainzijos..Oierti . . .

##l

SECRETARY.

 

.l—— Pinguad.
. Miss Faure.

, A. Abrahams.
.lRichard F. Woodcraft.
_ Thomas Latham.

F. Montague Rothery.

.yJosip Medved.

.1Prof. Chas. Monostori.
.lLorenz Washietl.

lL' L. Strzalkowski.

. Karl Berger.

. Edmund Kustin.

. Josip Absatz.

. Adalb Pater.

. Alfred Kohlcrt.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

AUSTRIA—HUNGARY,C’d
Krakau
Leitmeritz
Lemberg
Linz . .
Mahr Ostrau

Prague

Przemysl
Rzeszow
Temesvar
Trieste .

Vienna

Zagreb
Zara .

BELGIUM.
Antwerp
Brussels
Ghent
Liege
Louvain
Malines
Namur
Verviers

DENMARK.
Copenhagen
EGYPT.

Alexandria .
Cairo . . .

 

S.
S.
S.
Lin
S.
_SS
'(
.S.
Rze
S.
S.
W
l
S.
D

. Antwerp S. Prot. of A. .

S.
S.
S.
V

 

.Cairo S. P. C. A. .

.A. . Dr. Joseph von Kopff
I Peliks. dé PtavvioPtavvii 1L1
.Sylvester Felschimoosky
.Elorian Gartner. . .

.P. A.
A.

:Biiiierfior .théf Kingdom 0” Mathias Novotny . .

. Hubert von Freyberger .

. D M. Parlagi Marton
.Dr. Vigini
Richard Tunkler

. Prof. E. Kamenar .
. G. Testa . . .

ow Branch Galic. an S. P. C. A.
.Z.A . .
.A.
enna S. P. C A. and seven )
branches . . .

P. C. A. .
almatian S. P. A.

.Julien Koch . . .
Royal S. . Alphonse Solvyns .

S.P.A.

Prot. of A. of Brussels
:Alphonse Culikers
. Victor Hénot .
J. Mastboom . .

Baron Fallon
Jules Ruhl .

erviers S. for Suppress n of C. to A.

sDenmark S P C A and Six} F. Chr. Lembcke

( branches . . .

Alexandria S. P. C. A. S. E. Ismail Pacha Sabri

Mohammed Maher Pasha

 

 

. Bronislaus Gustawicz.

Eduard Schmiedt.

. Dr. Jozef Limbach.
. Ottokar Beer.
. Richard Hartmann.

. Josef Hudl.
. Joh.

Haralewicz.

- Graef Janos.
- N. Salvari.

- E. Alex. Sturm.

. Drag. Leskovac.
. Charles Inghini.

. Adolphe van den Bosch.
. Alban Roels.

. H. Louveigne.

. T. Beaufort.

E. van den Eynde.‘

. Leon Diercxnes.
. —— Greuse.

. A. Andrin.

P. Jorgensen.

A. von Dumreicher.

 

I T. B. Hohler.

 

 

 




 

 

ENGLAND. I

i Royal S. P. C. A. [and branches i H. R. H. Duke of York ,1Jol1n Colam.

London . 1 throughout England] .

 

FRANCE. .1

Biarritz
Cannes
Dunkirk
Havre
Lyons .
Marseilles
Mentone
Blonaco
Nice
Paris

Pau
Rouen

GERMANY.

Aachen . .
Altona
Aschaffenburg.
Augsburg
Baden—Baden
Bautzen
Bayreuth
Berlin
Bernstadt
Bonn . .
Bremen
Breslau .
Bromberg
Brunswick
Cassel

 

s
E
-mmmmmmmmmmmmmmm

 

.S.P..A .
.S. P. A. of Cannes

Dunkirk s. P. C. A

. Havre S. Prot. A.

Prot. A. of Lyons
P. C. A. .

P. C. A. of Mentone
P. A. .

Prot. A. .

Prot. of A. . .
Prot. A. at Pau

P. C. A. .

nd Birds . .
of Aschaffenburg
and B. . . .

<§<
U<U<

at Bautzen

CA

mmmmmmm°m§

<<<w<wo<<<u

'<1

4
m.m<
O

mmmmm

. of Cassel

Ardoin .
Charles Goudard— \lal 111
Alfred Dumont .

.J. de Coninck

. Louis Pugin .

. Charles Gounelle
‘lHubert A. Freeman

'Mrs. S. H. Adlam .

Sir James Harris

A Uhrich . .

Dr. H. Draper Speakman
Henry Paris .

Baron Janssen

.Dr. Greve . .

. E. H. Deubler.

. Iacobus Reimers

.Maj. —Gen. D. von Parseval
. H. Wetzlich

. —— Preu .

General Koring .

.F. Stahr
. —— Bongartz

Ad. Brinkman

.P. Huch
.— Nolte .
.Dr. Rudolf Blasius

 

. Rev. Carl \Vilhelm Peter

.iM. Vail.

.gCh. Rocoffort.
.l Emile Pouleur.
.lG. Serrurier.
.lCharles Lebrwun
.lEdouard Rabaud

'M. Gioan.

.lCapt. Polli.

.L. J. Jerome.
.Gabrielle Lamguet.
Hubert A. Freeman.

.‘Gaston Hamel

. J. Bernarts. Jr.
. —— Trenkner.

. Chr. Flemer.

VVeinig.
Dr. Hellig.

. Heinr. Heuschmann.
. Major VVagener.

Neumann.

. Dr. Korten.

. Dr. Kuhlmann.

. C. Junge.

. Rev. S'auberlich.
. W. Koch.

 

. Martin Betting.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

GERMANY—Continued.

Celle.....

Chemnitz . .
Coburg .

Cologne
Constance .
Crefeld .
Crimmitzschau
Dantzig .
Darmstadt
Dortmund
Dresden
Duisburg
Dusseldorf
Elberfcld
Elbing

E1111sl1or11

Essen

Feldberg

Flensberg .
Freiberg
Frankfort- on- Main
Frankfort-on—Oder
Friederichstadt
Gelsenkirchen
Glogau . .
Gorlitz . .
Gotha . .
Greifenherg
Greifswald

Uimm’vUr/iuic/icrim'm'uiz/iz/i/

 

mmW.~r~mmmmwmmwmmo

 

 

0.19;

.2” of Celle . . . . . .Dr. Schreckenberger Rev. K. Gartner.

. . Dr. Schwarze . . Rudolph Hartmann.
mal and Plant P. S. .of the 2

uchy of Coburg . . .1 Max Brodfiihrer . _ .Adam Bruckner.

gne S. P. A. . . _. . . . Dr. Otto Hartrﬁann . Dr. V. Wiedmann.
A. of Constance . . . —-—- Rothenhaiisler . . Franz Walter.
C. A. of the Lower Rhine .— Printzen . . . . Hermann Weberling.

, ——- Reichardt . . . . Rich. Rietzch.

, Dr. Borntraeger . _ . Alexander Goll.
Dr. Eisenhuth . . E. Heusslein.
l-I. \Verneke . '. . . . . H. Landgraf.

. Dr. F. Schurig . . . — Hiibler.

, A. Van Meetereu.
, , , Georg Gundelach . . . . Carl Grundmann.
rhaler S. P. C. A. . . -. Heinrich Espenschied . . F. Schumacher.

. . . . -—-—— Staberow.
.A. and B. . . M W. Reinhardt . . . —— Engel.

.P. A. for the town and envi— l i p

ronments of Essen . . 1' -. rof. Dr. Meyer . . . Prof. Dr. Meyer.
..P C. A. for the town and -
iro11n1ents of Feldberg '1 —— K0116“ ' ' ' ' ' " —_ Kaefke.

. . . . A. F. J. Eiler . . . . .» A. Jorgensen.
of Freiberg . . . . . Judge Vehse . . . . . . Wolf.

. . . . . . .Dr. Carl Schenck . . . . Alfred Geiger.
A. . . . . . . . —— Schumann . .i . . Rev. Mr. Bieder.
A. . . . W. Pollitz . . . . . . . I. Sieden.

A1 in Geisei1kircl1e1i . . Dr. Griittner . . . . . —— Oberwinter.

. . . . . —— Richter. .
A. of Gorlitz . . . Major Rudolf von Schollen
A of the Duchy of Gotha . L. Rausch . . . , G. Volckman.
. .Rev. Mr. Rittner.
entral Baltic Ass’ 11 Prot. A. . . —— V011 \Volffrath . . -— Jahnke.

3399

..<<'
mmmmmmmm

 

<<O<<<<o<u-

°Q
m Smmm m

1V1
C.
A.
A.
C.
C.
C.
A.

gammmmmmamm

 

 

 

 




 

G15R.\1.~\NY——Conlinued.

Gustrow
Halle
Hamburg
Hanover
Heide .
Hilchenbach
Hirschbcrg
Homburg
Itzehoe
Jena . .
Karlsruhe
Kattowitz
Kiel .
Koenigsberg
Landshut .
Langensclm albach
Lauban
Laugensalza
Leipzig
Liegnitz
_ Lubeck .
Ludwigshaien
Luneburg
Malchin
Mainz
Meissen
Miilheim .
Munich

Munster

Neisse . .
Neubrandenburg

 

 

o o a o o u

.s
.s
.L
,s
gs
gs
1s
s
s
s
5
l
s
s.

mmgmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm

<1)
,0
=5

4<<<<44<oo<o<<ooﬁo<oo<<<ez<o
mmmmmmmg“ mm

,0

in Gustrow
of Halle
..P A. . .

in Hanover

<<ﬂ<
00 5L5

0 O

in Kiel. . .
in Koenigsberg .
.in .Langenschwalbach

«2k: -<d

of Leipzig.
.of Liegnitz

.<:<Uj<i .<C<j

N
a
< g
a

thalian S P. Wild Birds 2.
Domestic Fowls and A. S

.A. of Neubrandenburg

 

 

 

 

 

. Dr. Fritzsche.

Dr. Tramhaijn .

I Prof. C. F. Schulz

Dr. Dammann
Dr. Lammers
H. Feldmann
Carl Wagner
Heinr. Mockel
J. H. Raasche
Dr. Rohrig.

F. Kaeﬂein
Rabbi Cohn .

. Franz Schuck
. Gen. Brausewetter.
—— von Fuchs Bimbachs

Schutt .
Hermann Wende.

Fischer
Dr. Rob. Klee

. Dr. Otto Guthling.
. Dr. F. L. G. Wichmann .
. Sebast. Ledere

H. Reinecke.
Gustav J. Hamdoric

. Prof. Schlenger

Dr. C. F. Schaufuss
—-'—— Schmidt .
Count Houlin

Prof. Dr. H. Landois
—— Pohlis . . .

.Rev. Mr. Steinfiihrer

—— Rudiger.
.1 Rev. Kloppenburg.
.lR. O. Hasperg.

. —— Sa11rer.'
4—— Anacker.

. Mauermeister Henscl.
. Dr. Ph. Bauer.
.WVilhelm Stromeyer.
.1 Sierds.

.11 arl Kraemer.

Schwandt.
.‘Heinr. Schudt.
iM. A. Brodersen.

K. Becker.

.i-—— Hanke.
.\1ax Rabe.
11 Reinisch.

1' F F. Lund

Charles \Veingart
|.A11g Lofﬂer.

.HZde

.1Dr. L. Schaum.

.‘ B. Zeidler.

.lErnst Schiirmann.
. M. Bunhard.

. Aug. Bollmann.

.Rev. Hirschberger.
.lliA. \lahn.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

GERMANY—Continued.
Neumiinster . .
Neustrelitz
Nordlingen
Nuremberg
Offenbach .
Offenburg .
Oldenburg .

E. Messtorff , —_ Kock.

B. Praefcke . M. Reckow.
Heinrich Hermann . J. Kellermann.
Gottlieb Held . . Francis Monniger.
Dr. Volckmar . Ernst Renk.

. ‘. . . -. . . . Prof. Franz Dosch.
. . . . . . . Wilh. Kahtmann

m'Z

itzS.PCA

.A. in Nuremberg

O O C O O

. Dr. Mannheimer.

Osnabruck
Passau .
Pforzheim
Pirna
Ploen
Po'sen .
Remscheid
Regensburg
Ribnitz
Rostock .
Saalfeld .
Schleswig
Schwerin

9.. :mmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm

.of Passau .

gram.

andB. .
. in Ribnitz
of Rostock

4<<~4

. of Schleswig .

Boker

J. Spahl . .
. — Pﬁsterer

Julius Lutsche.
H. Foerster .
Rudolf Schulz
Gottl. Arns

L. E. Meyer .

. Ludwig Dolberg
. Ferd. Matz . .

Dr. Mauer.

, Dr. T. S-teen

Rev. Mr. Florcke

Kahler.
. Joseph Alteneder.

Berner.

. O. Kaven.
. Ed. Reissmiiller.

Paffrath.

A. Geitner.
. H. Wilken.
. Heinrich Teutmann.

. Dr. T. Steen.

— Moller.
.——Dorn.
and A. . . . Rud. Hoch . . . Dr. Hermann Bellebaum.
Prof. Schirlitz . . — Reinhardt.
—— Ziihl . . . —— Bottge.
. . Rev. Ed. Schneider . Rev. Ed. Schneider.
. . . ' — Steinwender . — Kertzer.
. . . A. Egglhuber . . . G. Dechner.
. . . Otto Ulm . . . . . Rev. A. Bojanowski.
. . . . . . August Friedrich . . —— Schikor.
in Wiirtemberg . Count von Zeppelin . Johannes Seybold.
. —— Kropz . . —— Wiesmeyer.
.of .Wiesbaden Count A. von Bothmer . Count A. von Bothmer.

<2
4240444444044400o4o44

Sensburg
S-iegen
Solingen . .
Stargard . .
Stettin . .
Strassburg i. E.
Straubing.
Strehlen
Striegan
Stuttgart
Warstein .
Wiesbaden .

~rri
La

34444444040

4.4

DJQJDJananJnJDJanJmn-Im

.

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

GERMANY—Continued.
Wiirzburg . . .
Wupperthal .
“Zabern . .
Zittau . .
Ziirich .
Zwickau .

HOLLAND.
Alkmaar
Amsterdam
Arnheim
Baarn .
Brada .
Dordrecht
Haarlem. .
Hague, The .
Hertogenbosch .
Hook of Holland
Maastricht
Rotterdam . .
Utrecht . . .

. . . . Dr. Bauerlein . . Mr. Eichelsbacher.
. . . . . H. Espenschied. Ferd. Schumacher.
. of Zabern —— Gasser . . . . . . B. M. Goettgens.
——Thiemer . . . . —— Peschel.
of Ziirich. P. H. Wolff . . . . H. Fischer-Sigwart.
. . . . —— Zemmrich . . . —— Birkigt.

<d<iU

Din-10.20.19.104

<‘o‘<’ <d‘féo<'<'<d<'<
mmmmwm

41:,

. . . K. A. Cohen Stuart . . C. J. Reiziger.
P A. . . . . B. J. Polenaar . . . C. F. J. Hanedves.
.A. of Arnheim . . . Baron H. A. Elias . . . . M. F. W. Van Dulm.
. J. P. Hooft . . .. . . . J. C. van der Veen.
. . . . A. P. Sheltus . . . . . —Van Vooren.
of Dordrecht . . . .H. Hoyer . . . . . . . S. Schotel.
A. von der Voort . . A. Beernink.
. . . R. A. Klerck . . . . . L. V. van Rossern.
Div. . . . . . . F. X. Verheijen . . . . L. G. P. Max.
. P. Dregmans . . . . . J. C. Jansen.
. P. H. H. Routs . . . . K. Vonk.
. H. de Bie . . . . . . D. van Stolk.
. J. Meyers . . . . . . . Van der Lip.

.O
(DU)

mammmmmmg

v—1
9—:

.S.
.S.
.S.
.S‘.
.S.
.S.
.A
.S.
.S.
.Nt
.S.

Eé<€ 3<
mmgm

INDIA.
Ahmedabad . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . —— Manibkai.
Bangalore . . . S. P. A. . . . Col. D. Robertson . . . Gen. J. F. Fischer.
Bombay . . . . The Bombay S. P. C. A . . . Dr.’J. Pollen . . K. M. Shroﬁ.

Calcutta . . . . Calcutta S. P. C. A. . . . . .Hon. Vlr. Justice J. Stanley G. W. Lees.

Howrah . . . Howrah S. P. C. A. . . . . . F. W. Duke, I.C. S. . . .R. A. Donnithorne.
Kandy (Ceylon). . S. P. A. . . . . . . . . ' . . . . . . W. Goonetilleke.
Kurrachee . . . . S. P. A. . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . .Major Merewether,R.E.
Madras . . . . . Madras S. P. C. A . . . . Hon. H. T. Boddam . . . D. A. McCready.

S S. for Prot. of A. from Vivi— l
Madras . . . . . l section and CruelTreatmentS M. K. Chette . . . . .V.Ranganatham Nayudu.

<1
D4
(I)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

NEW ZIC.\1..\N1)~(,‘UH.*'d.
Wellmgton

CL}
vi

<d<ri<d

NORWAY.
Arendal .
Bergen .
Christiania
Christiansand
Drammen
Ibbestad
Kongsvinger
Mosjoen .
Stavanger

4.3
O
L:

. in Christiania

. Jas. S. Jameson

—— Holpeldt .

—— Hagemann

. Georg S-Verdrup

Hans Johnsen.
And. Larssen
P. B. Opsion .
—-— Prydtz.

O. Hals . .
E. Ronneberg

 

Francis Shaw.

. H. Regland.
. E. Olsen.
. Oscar Nickelsen.

. Miss L. Harig.
. N. Dons.

. O. Hals.
. Kund Kloster.

. —— Kauvin
. Ivar Hesselberg.

Trondhjem

. B. Thomassen.
Voss . .

mmmmmmmmmmm 0.}

PORTUGAL.
Lisbon
Lisbon .
Oporto .

[Heitor.

. Joaquim Carlos da Silva \o
. Alfredo Henrique da Silva. ‘0
.J. Costa, Jr.

of Lisbon . . Julio d’Andrade
mestic Animals of Portugal Count of Paco Vieira .
A. . . . . Count de Moser

P.D

<<d<<1<d<£<°<d <2 Ogo'

121.}

RUSSIA.
Abo (Finland) S. P. C. A. . . .
Archangel Section
Russian S. P. A. .
Astrakhan Section
Russian S. P. A. .
Berdichev Section
Russian S. P. A. .
Czernigow Section
Russian S. P. A.

. A. R. Spoof.
. M. Makaroﬁ'.

. M. Qui.
. A. Wilensky.

‘W. W. Guweliakin .
Lieut.-Gen. Hasenkamf .
N. M. Kossowsky .

Archangel . .
Astrakhan .

Czernigow , Alex. Roschdestwensky . . Alex. Tschemesky.

. Bar. vonder Osten Driesen. A, K, Kulikowsky,
Baron von Taube . K. N. Dementjeff.
. D. N. Batinschnoff . . . Z. W. Wolkowitsky.

 

Dwiasa . .

Ekaterinburg Ellgiizgiigiiugg €33:th Of The

i

l

l
Grodna.....i

l
l
l
Berdichev . . i
i
i

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

RUSSIA—Continued.
Helsingfors(Fin1and) E P. hC.SA. {Th R S P A
Kalish . . . . als cc. 0 e ussian P. P. Manassein . . W1 d' 1 H '
Kaluga . . . . Kaluga Sec. of The Russian S. P. A. S. Kukarin . . . A M. 3W? MichgiilewSky.

‘Kamenetz Section Of The} T. K. Michalewicz. . F. K. Czerwinsky.

' ' i RussianS. P. A. .
Kazan Sec. of The Russian S. P.A. T, N, Lange , , . , ' T. Goomelewsky.
Kiev SEC. 0f The Ru551an 5- P. A. O. O. Eichelmann . W. Tynatowitch.
. —+- Lindenbaum.

: Kovno Sec. of The Russian S. P. A. COL-Maj. A. Daronofi
Krementchoug . :Krﬁﬁlsiriﬁflhgu%_seﬁtioil of The}; B. M. Orenstein . . . J. B. Orenstein.
, W. P. Kartoscheff.
. Léon Jezierski.

Kursk . . Kursk Sec. of The Russian S. P. A. M. _W. Zarin .
D. Charadshieﬁ.

Kamenetz .

Kazan .
K1ev . . .
Kovno . . .

 

5 Lodz Section of The Russian?
Lodz . . S P A. S-

i
5( M25331)? SECtan 0} F‘Fhé. Rsu W. Stankewicz . .
i
i

—— Zacwilichowski
MariOpol

Melitopol MCII'COPOI SECtion of Th
Menselinsk .
Minsk
Moscow
Narva . , ,
Nowoselitzi
Nowotchorkask

Russian S P A . . . W. P. Kanatoff. Casper L. Chludzinsky.

 

?

i

. —— Ostankoff.

. Minsk Sec. of The Russian S. P. A —— Onatzewitch , , —— Ossowsky.
Moscow Sec. of The RussianS. P. A Count Keller , , Korotnioff.

. Narva Sec. of The Russian S P A. J. L. Pawlowski . . . . Julius Selten.

.A. T. Koreischa . . . T. A. Schawursky.

Odessa

Omsk

Oofa . . . .
Orel . . . .
Riga . . . .
Simferopol
St. Petersburg .

Stavropol . .

 

Livland S. P. A. .

. Taurida Sec. of The RussianS. P. A.
. The Russian S. Prot. A. .
S Stavropol Section of The ?_

( RussianS. P. A. . .

 

.Don Sec. of The Russian S. P. A. Maj -Gen. Grekoff.
. Odessa S. Prot. A. .
. Omsk Sec. of The Russian SP P..A
. Oofa Sec. of The Russian S. P. A.
. Orel Sec. of The Russian S. P. A. .

. Stephen John Ralli

F. Sendczikowsky .

P. E. KindiakOff .
.Mai‘y .Von 'sc'hiiiin'g . .
E. Kessler

.Gen. -Maj. P. P. Lonskoi

A. S. Klutscharef. . .

 

 

 

 

Turmoresoff.

. Leon Margulis.

Solovieff.

. —— Jolianowsky.
. Tereletzky Klimowitch.

Clara v. Livingmann.
Kazcouchoff.

: Col. P. P. Joukowsky.

A. T. Taroshenko.

 

 




 

RUSSIA—Continued.
Thuemen (Siberia)

Tiﬂis

Tobolsl< (Siberia)

Tula
Uman .

Vilna
Voronezh

{l‘liuemen Section of The)

Russian S. P. A. . . .

.Tiﬂis S. Prot. A. . . . . .

TobolskS.P.A. . . . . .

.TulaS. P..A

Uman Sec. of The Russian S. P. A

. Vilna Sec. of The Russian S. P. A.

SVoronezh Section of The?
( Russian S. P. A. . .S

.S'

.J. P. Zeitlin

A. A. Isaeff

D. Levandoﬁ'.
Maj. -.Gen 0. K. Sharsky

—— Shishkowsky.

. S. A. Klimoff
. L. M. Knioseff

 

I. M. Pawloﬁ’.
L. N. Woloff.
K. S. Twanoﬁ'.
— Smolitch.
A. Rymschewiz.

K. W. Koniewsky.

Warsaw . Warsaw Sec. of The RussianS. P. A.
VVischnyWolotschek. . . . . . . . . . . .
. Zytomir Sec.of The RussianS.P.A.

BaronI. Briining . .
SN. W. Essenowsky To- S’
( bolkin . . . . .
Baron de Chaudoire.

—— Golowatchewsky.
A. E. Sipatlo.
Zytomir . . . .

SCOTLAND.
Aberdeen
Arbroath
Ayr

. Aberdeen Ass’n P. C. A. .
Arbroath Branch ScottishS. P. C. A.
. . S. P. A.

Dundee .S. P. A. . . .
Dunfermline . . S. P. A.

Edinburgh . . . .Sc ottish S. P. C. A. . . . ..
Forfar

Lord Provost of Aberdeen . Alex. I. R. Thain.
James A. Paterson . . . David Littlejohn.

. William Hunter. . . . . Thomas Buist.

. TheLordProvost of Edin’gh Archibald Langwill, C.A.
lasgow and West of Scot-

l

Glasgow land 5 P C A . . . .S
l

S

 

TheLordProvostofGlasgow Henry F. Lowndes.

O 1
Hi ghland Branch of the Scot- , lRight Hon Lord Lox at

Invemess - 11511 s. P. C. A.

5G
l
SH
l
Perth . . . S.
S.

- Duncan Shaw.

Tavistock

P.
P.A.

SOUTH AFRICA.
Barberton (S. A. R.)

S.P...CA ...........W.Prosser.
Cape Town

Cape of Good Hope S. P. C A. .F. Y. St. Leger, M.L.A. . \V. Pavel.

l

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SOUTH AFRICA—Cont'd
Durban (Natal)

East London
Johannesburg
(S. A. R.)
Pietermaritzburg
(Natal)
SPAIN.
Barcelona .

Cadiz .
Gibraltar
Madrid
Malaga
Seville

Barcelona S. P. A. and Plants

SWEDEN.
Alingsas .
Borgholrn
Eksjo
Falun
Goteborg .
Grebbestad .
Kalmar
Karlshamn
Karlskrona .
Karlstad . .
Linkoping
Lulea
Lund. .
Lund . .
Lyckeby .

mall Birds

Grebbestad
Kalmar S.
S. P. A. . . .
.S. P. A. . .
S. P. A. .
. Linkoping S. P. A.
.S. P. A.
Lund S. P. A
. Friends P. A.

S. P. A.

 

 

 

. Salvador Badia y Andren

I b. 's. .Goveitt :

. J. Garcia de Toledo

. F. Kylander

. K. J. Hellgren

.lF. Aug. Pettersson
. C. E. von Odreich .

. A. J. Molin
. A. Hellner

. Rev. 0. A. Wester .

. Prof. S. L. Torngvist .
. Fredrik Krebs

. Rev. H. Bergstrom

. His Exc. Sir Walter Hely

. E. H. Crouch.
. Lionel Phillips

[Hutchinson

[Hutchinson

 

Henrik Hedlund

.Otto Berg

..N Hussenins . .
Bishop C. H. Rundgreri
Dr. A. Sterner

 

Thos. W. Edmonds.

. F. W. Fitz Simons;
. His Exc. Sir Walter Hely

F. J. Dickson.

. Francisco de Maymo y Llo-

[part.

. —— Romualdo.
. H. W. Bailey.

. Henry J. Huelin.
. R. de Bustamente.

. Albert Michelsen.
. J. Wilner.

. Edward Petri.

. E. Hedblom.

C. J. Gardell.

. A. Alstrom.

. H. Bohman.

. Erik Leth.

. I. J. Blomberg.

. Dr. Conrad Fristedt.
. G. A. Wallen.

. K. Hallman.

. N. Lundahl.

. Aurore Ytterstrom.
. H. Stalfors.

 




SWEDEN——

 

 

 

Marieped
Morsil
Nettraby
Orebro .
Skofde .
Stockholm
Stockholm
Stockholm
Strengnas
Stromstadt
Sundsvall
Tjorn . .
Umea .
Upsala
Vexio
Visby

VVimmerby
SWITZERLAND.

Aargau .
Basle . .
Berne
Bienne
Burgdorf
Chur .
Fribourg
Geneva

Langenthal

Lausanne
Lucerne
Neuchatel

Nyon . .

Continued.

 

.15. P. A.

. P. A. .
lNettraby S. P. A. . . . .
Orebro S. P. A. . . . .
Skofde S. P. A. ».
Stockholm Branch S. P. A
Swedish S. P. A. . . .
Swedish Women’s Branch

: S. P. C. A. of Strengnas .

S.P.A ..

.S...PA

Tjorn s. PEA.

. Western Territorir S. P. A.

Northern S. P. A. . . .

.VexioS.P..A . .
.VisbyS. P..A

: Union of Soc’ s P. C A. in Chur

 

 

 

 

Fribourg S. P. C. A.

. Vaudoise S. Prot. A.

S. P. A. . .
S. P. C. A. in Langenthal . .
S. P. A.

Neuchatel S. Prot. A.

( Canton of Nyon

K. U. Nylancler
Gustof Erikson .

. Fr. Schlyter . . . . .
. J. Wahlﬁsk . . . . .
. H. Uggla . . . . . .
. Count G. von Rosen

. Baron Carl C. von Bonde

Mrs. Josephine Varenius

. K. U. Nylander . . . .

Sven Ljunggren . . .
Aug. Bystedt

. Carl Ljungman . .

Prof. C. N. Pahl

. Henrik Akerstrom
. Ch. E. Yon Oelreich

O. Carlstedt .
Fr. Ljung .

Dr. H. Fischer .

 

. Prof. P. Bohringer

.ES. W. Kuhn . .
.jHenriThalmann . . '.
. Joseph Rey . .

.‘\laj. Hartm. V. Cavienzel

..Rev Charles de Raerny
Ed Miiller- Jaggi

. —— Cousin

.Rob. Marbacher

. . . Rev. Mr. Lardy
jS. Prot. A. of Vaud. in the l

l Eugene Gamboni

 

 

Thos. Nordstrom.

. N. Otto Lindstrom.
. Ivar Espelund.

Dr. E. Adlez.

. Atel Th. Wahlstrom.

. A. E. Ljundberg.

. Baron Ludwig von Platen.
. P. G. Isberg.

. T. Nordstrom.

. A. Wiklund.

. H. Salvin.

. Y. A. Kallstrom.

. Dr. P. B. Regnér.

. A. G. Florén.

Frans Berggren.

I Am. Rosval.
. J. P. Johanson.

H. Hasler.

. Dr. Hans Keller.

. F. VVitschy.

. Albert Chopard.

. Dr. H. Stickelberger.

Dr. Michel V. Valer.

. Prof. Otto Moser.
. Eugene de Bude.

F. Schneeberger.
E. Chavannes.

. Dr. Bucher.
. Eugene Courv0151er.

. Louis Maquelin.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SWITZERLAND—Cont’d

Rolle

Soleure . .

St. Gall ' . .
Toggenburg

Thun . . .

Vevey . . '
Zurich .

O

Aij£Gm I.
A. of Toggenburg

<<UO<<<
mmmMmmm

TASMANIA.
Hobart .

Southern Tasmanian
Launceston

Northern Tasmanian

TURKEY.
Candia (Crete)

 

S. P. C. A.

 

. G. Pfeiffer

. —— Reymond .
.- T. Arnold
. C. Tuppinger .

J. Edelmann . .
A. Knechtenhofer

G. Suter . .

. R. G. Hamilton .

 

M. E. von Schwartz.

 

 

. —— Schopfer.
. Prof. Servert.
. T. Edelmann.

——-— Scherrer.
F. Brandt.
H. Burnier.

. G. Naegi.

. Miss M. S. Gellibrand.

Mrs. P. O. Fysh.

 

 




 

 

  

 

AGENTS.

In addition to the uniformed force attached to Head-
quarters and the Brooklyn Ofﬁce, the Society is represented
throughout the State of New York by the following Agents:

ALLEGANY COUNTY.

BENJAMIN, R. W ........................................ Rushford
GLOVER, GEORGE W ................................ Friendship
HARRIS (M.D.), WILLIAM H ......................... Canaseraga
MUNN, JAMES E ......................... '. ............... Oramel
VVHITING, J. I ............................................. Bolivar

BROOME COUNTY.
WILSON, JOHN M ....................................... Deposit

CATTARAUGUS COUNTY.

COTTON, CHARLES ....................................... Olean
HUNTLEY, JASON T ................................... Randolph

CHAUTAUQUA COUNTY.

EINSTEIN, MYER ....................................... Dunkirk
JENKS, A. FRANK ..................................... Jamestown

CHENANGO COUNTY.

BRIGGS, WILLIAM P....................................Smyrna
BROOKS, CHAUNCEY D .............................. Sherburne
MORSE, ALPHA .......................................... Oxford

WILLIAMS (M.D.), GEORGE O ........................... Greene

 

 

 

 




 

  

107

MOON, \VILLIAM H...................................\Vimlllnm
REILLY, JOSEPH ........................................ Catskill
RILEY, \VILLIAM T...................................chi11gt0n
\VELLS, CHRISTOPHER..............................C0Xsackic

WILLARD OLD), CHARLES E .......................... Catskill
HERKIMER COUNTY.

ATKINS, CHAS, H ...................................... Herkirner

BARGY, WARNER ...................................... Frankfort

HALL, H. CLAY ......... , .............................. Little Falls

SPOFFORD, JULIAN C ................................ Dolgeville
JEFFERSON COUNTY.

NORTHRUP, JOSEPH ............................. A lexandria Bay

WARD, PETER A ...................................... Watertown

LEWIS COUNTY.

DRYDEN, JOHN D ................................... Copenhagen
MURRAY, REV. JAMES BYRON, D.D ............. Constableville
SCOVILLE, HENRY C ............................. Constableville

LIVINGSTON COUNTY.

KILLIP, W, W ............................................ Geneseo
SHULTS, WARREN D ............................. Mount Morris

MADISON COUNTY.

BARLOW, C, F .......................................... Canastota
BRYANT, HAROLD ................................... BrOOkﬁEId
DE GROODT, FRED. E ............................ Pratt’s Hollow
LIPPITT, F, B ............................................ Madison
LOCKMAN, A ........................................... Cazenovia
PERRY (M.D.), C. H ...................................... Oneida
TEALE, B. S ............................................... Oneida
WARREN, JOB A ....................................... De Ruyter

MONTGOMERY COUNTY.

DE FOREST, DAVID ................................. Amsterdam
EATON. ALFRED G .................................. Amsterdam
FOX, BROWNELL C ................................. Canajoharie

MERENESS, CHARLES W ............................. Fort Plain

 

 

 

l l ‘
uh ‘w‘
w H} w
MW
‘H‘ , “
‘I‘W

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
   
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

     
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
   

108

NASSAU COUNTY.

BARKER, REV. JOHN W ................................ Merrick
CLOWES, LEWIS H ................................... Hempstead
COCK, HON. TOWNSEND D ..... . .................... Oyster Bay
CORT, THOMAS HENRY ............................. Cedarhurst
DUNBAR, JOHNJ ....................................... Freeport
FLOYD— JONES, G. STANTON ....................... Massapequa
MERRITT, DAVID H ..................................... Inwood
SMITH, JAMES T ........................................ Hewletts
VAN WAGNER GEO. E ............................ Locust Valley
VAN WAGNER, WILLIAM ......................... Locust Valley

NIAGARA COUNTY.

BRACKENRIDGE, WM. A .......................... Niagara Falls
HODGE, M. D. JOHN W ............................ Niagara Falls
POMEROY, D N ........................................ Lockport
THURSTON, BENJAMIN F ......................... Niagara Falls

ONEIDA COUNTY.

BISSELL, ELLISON A .............. V ................... Waterville
JONES (M. D ), T Z ..................................... Waterville
LEWIS W D ................................................ Utica

ROBERTS (M. D.), DAVID HENRY ........................ Utica

ONONDAGA COUNTY.
OTIS, ISAAC C ................................... '.....‘....Jordan

ORANGE COUNTY.

MILLS, JAMES J ..................................... .Port Jervis
NANNY, HARRISON W .................................. Goshen
WILLIAMS, NATHANIEL H ..................... . ..... Ridgebury '
CORWIN, SPENCER W ............................... Middletown

OSWEGO COUNTY.

NEWMAN, E. G ................................... North Hannibal
PENFIELD, W. H ......................................... Mexico

 




   
  
 

109

OTSEGO COUNTY.

CRAMER, ALMOND ................................ Cherry Valley
HOLBROOK, JOHN L ................................... Flycreek
HOWE, JESSE E ......................................... Oneonta
JOHNSON, HOWARD R ................................. Oneonta
PLATT, CHARLES M ...................................... Morris
SITTS, JOHN H, ................................. Riehﬁeld Springs
TIPPLE, ORRA L ...................................... Sehenevus

PUTNAM COUNTY.
BENNETT, WALTER J .................................. Mahopac

QUEENS COUNTY.

APPLEGATE, JACOB A ................................. Flushing
BUSCH, ADAM ....................................... Woodhaven
DUSING, WILLIAM ....................... 231 Ninth Ave., Astoria
POST, JR., JAMES B ................................ Richmond Hill
\VAGNER, MARTIN .................................... W’oodside

RICHMOND COUNTY.
ELLIOTT, GEORGE ................................ New Brighton

ST. LAWRENCE COUNTY.
MITCHELL, JOHN M ................................ Ogdensburg

SABATOGA COUNTY.

KAVANAUGH, F. W ....... i ............................. Waterford
O'BRIEN, JAMES J ................................... Ballston Spa
RICE. GEORGE A .................................. Meehaniesville
SELDEN, EDWARD D .......................... Saratoga Springs
VVOODWORTH, H. J ............................... Meehaniesville

SCHENECTADY COUNTY.
HOAG, C. E .......................... _ ............... Quaker Street

SCHOHABIE COUNTY.

PLANK, OLIVER F .................................... Gallupville
REED, H. LOUIE .......................................... Gilboa

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
  
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   

IIO

. SCHUYLER COUNTY.
\VAIT, WILLIAM HENRY ............................... Watkins

SENECA COUNTY. .
KNIGHT, LEWIS J ............ - ....... ' ..................... Farmer

STEUBEN COUNTY.

ALDEN, DR. PHILO L ........................... Hammondsport
BURKE, THOMAS W .................................... Addison
GEER, FRANK L .................................... Hornellsville
LAIN, CORNELIUS H ................................... Canisteo
LANE (M_D,), GEO, W.. ................................. Corning
THORNE (M.D.), VAN BUREN ........................ Woodhull
WILKES, ROBERT B ....................................... Bath

SUFFOLK COUNTY.

ANDERSON, THOMAS S. W ------------------------ Stony Brook
BALCHEN, OSCAR L .................................... Babylon
BRUSH, BENJAMIN F ....................... Cold Spring Harbor
CALL, FRANK H ....................................... Bay Shore
CAMPBELL, A, H ..................................... Huntington
HOMAN, C, E, C ................................... East Hampton
HOWELL, WILLIAM M ................................. Setauket
IVIORISON, GEORGE W ............................ Ronkonkorna
NELSON, WILLIABJ F ...................................... Islip
OVERTON (M.D.), FRANK ............................ Patchogue
POST, REGIS H .......................................... Bayport
REEVES, DETMOLD .................. . ................. Greenport
ROGERS, JOI—IN F ................................... Southampton
SAVAGE (M.D.), WILLIAM B .......................... East Islip
SEAMAN, JOHN D ................................... Brookhaven
SIRIONS, FRANCIS W .............................. Shelter Island
SNIITH, CHARLES F .................................. Cutchogue
SMITH, CHARLES L ................................... Northport
STRONG, JAJWES S ........... V .......................... Wainscott
SUYDAM, WALTER L ........... '. ..................... Blue Point
VAIL, ALFRED R ....................................... Southold
WELLS. GEORGE B ................... , ........... Baiting HOHOW

WIGGINS, JR, DAVID B .............................. Sag Harbor




  

    

III

SULLIVAN COUNTY.

CREVELING, REV. P. C .................................. Liberty
DECKER. A. A ..................................... Mountain Dale
GRANT. EDWARD W ......... f ........................... Liberty

TIOGA COUNTY.

BEEBE, CLARK W ........................................ Candor
STEELE. CHARLES R..................................Apalaehin

TOMPKINS COUNTY.
GIFFORD. NORMAN R

,. . . . .Trumansburg

ULSTER COUNTY. ,
OSTRANDER, DE WITT W ........................... Clintondale

WARREN COUNTY.

BURNETT, WILLIAM H ............................ Lake George
GRIFFING, E. T .......................................... Luzerne
HARRIS, E. S ......................................... Lake George
SEXTON, JESSE E ......................................... Hague

WASHINGTON COUNTY.

JAKEVVAY. FRED ..................................... Fort Miller
MCFARLAND, WILLIAM M ............................... Salem
TEMPLE, ALLEN S ..................................... Whitehall
WAYNE COUNTY.
AGETT. WILLIAM W ...................................... Lyons
COOPER, BYARD ............................... “ ........... Clyde
DAVENPORT. CLARENCE F ............................. Huron
MORSE. LEWIS II ........................................ Newark
RICH. JOSEPH C ......................................... Marion
\VILLIAMS, ALDEN P .................................... Marion

WESTCHESTER COUNTY.

ANGEVINE, GILBERT J. .'. ........................... Mt. Vernon

BACON. MARSHAL 'L ................................. Tarrytown
BARR, JOHN H ......................................... Irvington‘.

 

 

 

 

 
 
  
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 
   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

      

112

BERBERT, FREDERICK. . . . . . . ., ........... Hastings-on—Hudson
BRIGHT, MARSHAL H ................................ Tarrytown
BRUNDAGE, JOSEPH S. ..... . . . . . . . . . .L ............... Tuckahoe
BUSSARD, JOSEPH ................................ New Rochelle
COLLINS, HIRAIVI J ......................... , ......... Mt, Vernon
FARLEY, JOHN M ................................... White Plains
FLINT, F, W ................... . ....................... Larchmont
GARNJOST. FERDINAND ............................... Yonkers
HART, FRED. R ........................................ Mt. Kisco
HUSS. HENRY ........................................ Mt. Vernon
KONRAD, AUGUSTUS ................................. Tarl‘ytown
KOPP. GEORGE M ........................... ‘ .......... Sing Sing
MAHONEY. JOHN H ........................... North Tarrytown
PAGE, ALBERT ‘N....................................Chappaqua
PHELPS. ALBERT E ................................... Irvington
SCHENCK. CHAS. STEWART ............................... Rye
SHAY, JOHN .........\Vhite Plains
SLOCUM‘ VVILIJAM E ................................... Ardsley

ZINCK, GEORGE E ..................................... Elmsford

WYOMING COUNTY.

BRIDGEN, REV. ARTHUR E .............................. Attica
GIEFORD, DR. WILLIS B .................................. Attica

 




 

LIFE MEMBERS.

 

THE PAYMENT OF ONE HUNDRED DOLLARS OR MORE, AT ONE TIME,
SECUREs A LIFE MEMBERSHIP.

A
Allen, Mrs. John K.

Amend, Bernard G.
Anderson, Mrs. A. A.
Andrews, C. A.
Andrews, Mrs. B. L.
Archbold, John D.
Arnold, William

Astor, Mrs. John Jacob
Astor, W’illiam Waldorf
Avery, Samuel P.

B

Banks, Jr., Robt. Lenox

Becker, Mrs. Jennie T. B.

Benson, Miss Mary
Beresford, Mrs. John G.
Bergh, Henry
Billington, Mrs. Reno B.
Bliss, Robert P.
Bliss, Susan D.
Bostwick, Mrs. Jabez A.
Bowdoin, George S.
Lloyd, J. Gilmore
Braidich, A. F.
Brewster, Robert S.
:lundy, Hobart L.

8

 

Burdick. B. W.
Burke, Edward E.
Butler, Miss M. W.
Butts, Mrs. Laura A.

C

Campbell, A. H.

Cary, Miss Ellen G.
Chambers, Dr. M. L.
Claﬂin, Arthur B.
Claﬂin, John

Claﬂin, Mrs. H B.
Clark, Miss Ella Mabel
Clausen, Henry
Clendenin, l).D., Rev. E. M.
Clews, Henry
Cochran, \N. Bourke
Convers, E. B.

Cook, C. T.

Corning, John J.
Crapo, John M.

D
Daly, Henry 17.
Daly, Mrs. Tl’lenry F.
Dawson. Jenjamin Frederick
DeVVitt, George, G.
Dey, Anthony

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

Mayer, Otto L.
Meeker, Dr. C. H.
Meeker, Mrs. C. H.
Merritt, Mrs. George
Milbank, Joseph
Milbank, iVlrs. Joseph
Moffat, Miss Myra
Moore, Mrs. John Godfrey
Morss, Mrs. Mary T.
Mott, Jordan L.
Moulton, Miss Eliza
Moulton, Mrs. F. A.
Murray, John B.

N
Newton, Mrs. R. H.

O

O'Brien, William
()lcott, F. P.
Olcott, Miss Edith
Osborn, William H.

P
Parrish, James C.

Post, Edwin A.
Pyne, Jr., Moses Taylor

R

Reusens, G.

Rhinelander, Miss S.
Rhines, Mrs. Isaac Olcott
Ripley, Harry Dillon
Ripley, Sidney Dillon
Rogers, H. H.

Rolfe, Mrs. N. D.
Ruppert, Jacob

Russell,,Jr., Archibald Doug.

Russell, Hon. Horace

 

115
S

Scharmann, H. B.
Schermerhorn, Mrs. John \V.
Schermerhorn. \Villiam C.
Seligman, DeVVitt J
Shaw, Mrs. Francis G.
Sherman, George
Sherman. \Villiam \Vatts
Smith, Dr. Edward A.
Smith, Mrs. A. J.

Smith, Miss Josephine C.
Squier, E. George
Standish, Mrs. Myles
Stevens, Frederick \V.
Stokes, Miss C. I’.
Stokes, Jr., James

Stokes, Miss Olivia E. P.
Straus, Nathan
Stuyvesant. Mrs. J. Reade.
Suckley, Robert B.
Sulzer, Hon. William
Swezey, Mary E.

. T

Taylor, George C.
Thompson, Fred. F.
Tiffany, Charles L. '
Cliownsend, Mrs. Howard
Trevor, Henry G.

Tuck, Edward

Tuck, Mrs. Edward

U

Uhlmann, Frederick

V

Valentine, Mitchel
Vanderbilt, F. W.
Vanderbilt, Mrs. F. W.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




it
fl

,1 1:
1w. ’

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

l I I6
\Tan Kirk, Miss Lila White, Mrs. C. E.
Van Rensselaer, Kiliaen Whitney, Hon. Win. C.
, , Von Post, H. C. , \Ninans, Miss M. Antoinette
3 Winship, L. A.
1‘; ' W Winslow, Edward
all Winthrop, Benjamin R.
\Vagstaff, Hon. Alfred Wolff, Agnes H.
VVagstaff, Mrs. Alfred \Vood, Charles B.
Watson, George H. Wood, Mrs. Charles B.
Wendel, Miss Ella Wyekoff, Mrs. Cora Dillon
‘1, \Vendel, Miss Georgiana GR.
Weston, Mrs. R. W. Y
\Nharton, Edward R.
: - \Vheeler, Miss Laura Yuengling, J11, David G.
i ,1,
l
l :l
l il
l l
l
l l

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   




MEM BE RS.

THE ANNUAL MEMBERSHIP SUBSCRIPTION IS FIVE DOLLARS.

A

Abraham. Abraham
Ackerman, E. W.
Alexander, J. H.
Allen, Miss L. D.
Allen, Miss Rose
Allebone, Mrs. J. O.
Alter, David

Am Ende, Dr. C.
Andrews, Miss Pearl
Arnstein, Albert
Arnstein, E.

Aron, A.

Auchincloss, Mrs. H. D.
Austin, Mrs. E. B.
Avila, Mrs. Samuel A.
Ayer, Frederick E.

B
» abcock, H. D.

B
Bachmann, Frederick
Baekster, Mrs. Clara L.
Backus, Mrs. Foster L.
Bacon, Marshal L.

Bailey, Mrs. O. S.

Baldwin, H. l\/T.

Baldwin, Mrs. T. Burnett
Ballay, Eugene C.

Ballin, Oscar E.

”lanks, Mrs. Theo. Howard
anyer, Goldsboro

)
)
lardes, John

I
l

 

Barker, Miss Isabel R.
Barnes, Davis
Barnes, Mrs. Harriet
Jarnes, Miss l\'lildred
Jarrow, Mrs. J. Thomas.
Barry, \Nm. J.
Barth, (lustav A.
Barton, l\:’lrs. Carrie L.
Barton, ()liver (l.
Battermann, H.
Bayne, S. (l.

leach, l\/lrs. Emily S.
.lechtel, Mrs. Eva
Beemer, James G.
Beinert, Charles
Belford, William J.
Bell, Bertrand F.

"3e11, (lordon Knox
Bell, Mrs. James

Bell, Thomas C).
Bender, George
Benedicks, Leonard
Benedict, Miss Laura
Benedict, Miss Louise
lenjamin, A. Bedell
lenjamin, Mrs. A. Bedell
Beramji. R.

Berlin, H. C.
.Bernheimer, LVlayer S.
lernheimer, Simon E.
Biddle, John

Billings, Miss M. M.
Bininger, Wm. G.
Bishop, Miss l\/’l. C.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

   
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Bishop, Mrs. Heber R.
Blake, Henry

Blake, Miss Kate W.
Blake, Peter

Bliss, E. W.

Bliss, Mrs. E. W.
Bliss, Miss Ida E.
Bliss, Justin A.
Bliss, Mrs. Justin A.
Bliss, Mrs. W. H.
Bloodgood, John H.

. Bloomingdale, Charles A.

Bodine, B. J.

Bolton, Mrs. Charlotte L.

Bond, Frank S.

Bondy, M. S.

Borman, A. H.
Bowdoin, Miss Edith .G.
Bowne, Mrs. Philip H.
Boyd, Allan S. ,
Braekett, Edgar T.
5’)rady, Patrick

Braine, Theodore
Braun, Ludwig

Breese, Miss Eloise L.
Brewster, Mrs. William
Bristol, Miss Fanny L.
Brittan, Miss Elizabeth
Brookes, Mrs. E. C.
Brooks, Miss Bertha G.
Brown, Addison
Brown, Miss E. W. '
Brown, Miss Ellen G.
Brown, Edward W.

._ grown, Robert

Brown, VValston H.
Brown, Mrs. Walston H.
'vlrownson, Mrs. W. H.
Bruns, C. A.

Brush, W. Franklin
giryan, Charles S.

Bull, W. L.

Bull, Mrs. W. L.

118

  

Bull, Jr., W. L.

Bull, Mrs. William T.
Bullinger, Mrs. E. 'T.
Burnett, S. O.
Burroughs, William V.
Byrnes, Rev. James P.

C

Cady, Mrs. J. C.

Cahill, Michael
Caldwell, R. J.

Calef, Mrs. John H.
Cammann, George P.
Campbell, Alexander
Canty, Daniel

Carew, Mrs. L. B.
Carnochan, G. M.
Carpenter, Miss Agnes
Carpenter, Mrs. Miles B.
Carrington, Miss E. B.
Carroll, J D.

Carseallen, Mrs. J. D.
Cary, Mrs. M. B.

Cary, Mrs. W. F.
Cathcart, Miss Jane R.
Catlin, Miss Cora V. R.
Catlin, Miss Edith R.
Catlin, Miss K. L. R.
Catlin, Wm. H.

Cestero, J. N.

Cestero, Mrs. J. N.
Chamberlain, Miss F. A.
Chambers, Miss Catherine D.
Chapman, Mrs. E. N.
Chapman. lsaac E.
Childs, Miss Jessamine G.
Chisholm, Hugh J.
Choate, Hon. Joseph H.
Choate, Mrs. Joseph H.
Clark, Mrs. Margaret
Cleveland, Mrs. J. Wray
Close, S. B.

Clyde, Miss Mabel

  
  
  
  
  
   
 
  
  
 
  
    
    
  
    
 
   
   
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
   
  
  
  
  
 
   
  
  

 

 

 




 

 

Coburn, Miss L. C.
Cockey, Edward C.
Coe, Miss Miriam Storrs
Cohen, Albert A.
Cohen, Solomon L.
Cohen, Stanley A.

Cohn, Mrs. Louie H.
Colby, Miss May Colgate
Colby, William Colgate
Cole, Mrs. Hugh L.
Colgate, A. W.

Colgate, Mrs. A. W.
Colgate, James B.
Conklin, Miss Mary H.
Conner, Mrs. Crowell M.
Constable, W.

Cook, C. F.

Cook, Frank D.

Cooke. Mrs. Laura E.
Corbett. C. H.

Cornell, l‘lon. Robert C.

Coudert. H'on. Frederic R.

Coutts, Mrs. G. H.
Cowdin, \Vinthrop
Cowles, Alfred A.
Cox, Charles F.
Cramer, L. H.

Credo, Mrs. G.
Crimmins, Thomas E.
Critten, Miss Mignon
Crosby, Miss M. E.
Crossman, W. H.
Crossmond, Mrs. L. D.
Crowell. Edward B.
Cummings, Robert J.
Cunningham, Mi‘ss E. G.
Cunningham, George

Curtis, Miss Elizabeth B.

Curtiss, Miss Sophia

D

Dailey, Miss May Belle
Dalley, Henry

 

119

Dalzell, Mrs. John D.
Darrell, Edward E
Darrigrand, Alexander A.
Darrigrand, Miss Lucie
Davidson, Miss Clara
Davies, l\"lrs. Mansﬁeld
Davis, liellowes
Davison, Clarence B.
Day, Clarence S.

Day, Mrs. H. M.
Dearborn, Miss Dorothy
DeBow, Mrs. A. M.

De Coppet, H.

De Coppet, Mrs. H.

De Cordova. Alfred
DeGroot, Miss Emma 1’.
Dehon, Miss M. H.
Dejonge, Louis

Delano, Miss Jean W.
DeLashmutt, Mrs. G.
De Luze, Francisco 0.
De Ruiz, Mrs. P. B.
Despard, Mrs. C. L.
Despard, W. D.
Despard, Mrs. W. D.
Dick, Mrs. \/’V. B.
Dieterich, Charles I“.
Dillar, W. E.

Dillon. John E

Dimock, Mrs. I. DeWitt
Dimock, M rs. J J.
Ditson. Mrs. C. H.

Dix, S.T.D.. Rev. Morgan
Dodge, Marcellus Hartley
Dodge. Sr., Mrs. \N. E.
Dodge, William E.
Doelger. li’eter

Doerr. J. B.

Dominick, H. Blanchard
Donaldson, Mrs. E. L.
Donovan. Dennis
Donovan, Joseph

Dowst, Arthur A.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Drake, John D.

Drake, Miss Mary Hopeton
Drake, Mrs. Charles
Duggin, Mrs. Charles
Duncan, John F.

Dunham, Mrs. Minnie
Dunlop, John

Dusenbury, C. Coles

Du Vivier, E. A.

E

. Eaton, Mrs. D. Cady

Eckstein, Samuel
Eddy, Mrs. Jane B.
Edmonds, John W.
Edwards, J. Zl’ierrepont
Eglen, Fred.

Elkins, Miss Fannie
Elkins, Miss Ida
Elliott, Walter T.
Ellis, Mrs. A. V. H.
Ely, Ambrose K.

Emmet, Master Watson Case

Emory, Mrs. John Comegys
Engeman, William A.
Engle, Robt. S.

Englis, Charles M.

Ennis, John J.
Eppelsheimer, Henry

Eppig, Joseph

Erbsloh, R.

Erhardt, Hon. Joe] B.

F

Fahnestock, William
Fairbanks, Mrs. L.

Fargo, James C.

Faye, Mrs. Ernest Frederick
Feist, Karl

Felt. Mrs. Edwin M.

Finck, August

Fisk, Mrs. S. A.

120

   
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  

Fiske, Mrs. Harrison G.
Fitch, M.D., Neil O.
Fitzgerald, Gen. Louis
Flegenheimer, Jr., Henry
Flint, Miss Annie

Flint, Miss Helena
Flint, Mrs. Austin
Flint, Jr., Mrs. Austin
Flint, Mrs. Charles R.
Foehrenbach, Jr., F.
Foller, Nicholas
Forbes, Miss Agnes
Ford, Malcolm W.
Forney, Matthias W.
Fox, Mrs. Austen G.
Frankenberg, D.
Franklin, Dr. E. D.
Franks, C. Douglas
Franzreb, John
Freedman, Andrew
Freel, Edward
Freeman, Prof. James J.
Freeman, W. D.
Friedmann. H. G.
Fries, Frederick
Friihauf, Miss Victoria

G

Gage, William B.
Gallaher, Mrs. Julia A;
Gallatin, Frederic
Gates, Isaac E.

Gatter, Miss Elizabeth Almy
Gatter, Miss Georgia
Gaus, John L.

Gebhard, Mrs. Frederic
Gellatly, Mrs. John
Georgen, W. T.
Gerrans, H.

Gibb, John

Gibbert. Sr.. Mrs. F. E.
Gibbs, Miss Z.

 

 




 

 

   
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
     

Gilford, Samuel T.
Gitterman, Mrs. John Milton
Glatz, Mrs. Pauline
Goddard, Miss Annie C.
Godfrey, Miss Lily Alys
Godkin, Lawrence
Godwin, Parke

Goin, Mrs. James D.
Gokey, Mrs. William J.
Golding, John N.

Golding, Jr., John Noble
Golding, Robert Noble
Goodrich, George Sclden
Goodrich, Mrs. Thomas F.
Goodridge, Mrs. Frederic
Goodman, Joseph l .
Gould, Frank J.

Gould, George J.

Gould, Mrs. (Zieorge J.
Gould, Miss Helen Miller
Graef, Mrs. Harry C.
Grant, Mrs. Ulysses S.
Grant, Rev. Percy S.
Grauer, George

Greer, D.D., Rev. David H.
Griffen, Mrs. Perry
Grismer. Mrs. Joseph R.
Griswold, Mrs. George
Griswold, Miss Sarah I).

Grosvenor,Rev.Wm.L\/[.,D.D.

Gruner, Mrs. Siegfried
Guggenheimer, Hon. R.
Guggenheimer, Mrs. R.
Guiterman, Rudolph
Gunther, Henry

Gwyer, Mrs. Fred Walker

H

Haddock. J. W.
Haffen, John
Hagaman, A.
Haight, Stephen S.
Haines, G. Sabine

IZI

Hale, Mrs. Thomas

Ilall, Mrs. Humes

ll ammond, Mrs. John Henry
Hard, Anson \V.
Harkness, Chas. \V.
llarkness, Mrs. S. \i.
Harriman, Mrs. J. Borden
Harris, Isaac

Harris, Mrs. Laura C.
Harrison. Mrs. Mary L.
Hart, Charles

H artman. l’. ll.

:l l arvey, George F.
Hascall, Miss Florence King
Hastings, Chas. F.
Hastings, Mrs. A. F.
Hastings. Mrs. \V. C.
Hatch, Jr. Henry D.
Havemeyer. J. Craig
Haviland, S. W.

Hawley, F.dwin

Healey, A. Augustus
H'ealey, John J.

Hearn, Arthur H.
Heaton, Mrs. Chas. A.
Hecht. Aaron
Heckmann, Mrs. Barbette
Heckscher, John G.
Heene, E.

Heller, Clarence

Heller, lVIrs. E. L.
Hellman, Theodore
Hellman. Mrs. Theodore
Henderson, Mrs. James A.
Hendricks, Charles
Hendricks, Mrs. Charles
Henry, Gustav C.
Hentschel. Charles
Hentz, Henry

Hentz, L. S.

Hentz, Mrs. Mary B.
Hentz, Miss Helen L.
Hentz, Miss Mary R.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

   
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
  

K

Kaltenmier, John

Kane, 5. Nicholson
Keator, Mrs. T. R.
Keck, Albert

Keene, Mrs. Foxhall P.
Keith, Dr. Horace G.
Kelly, Edward F.
Kendall, Miss Georgiana
Kendall, Miss S. R.
Keppler, Rudolph
Kestler, Bruno B.
Kimball, Miss Rosamund
King, George

King, Mrs. Percy R.
Kirk, Mrs. Harford B.
Knapp, John M.

Knapp, Miss M. M.
Knickerbocker, Mrs. M. A.
Knopf, A. E.

Knox, John Mason
Koch, J. Otto

Koegler, William

L

Ladenburg, Mrs. Adolph
LaMontagne, Mrs. Maurice
La11gdori,bWooclbt1ry G.
Lanman, Mrs. Jonathan T.
Lapham. Mrs. John J.
Lawrence, Cyrus J.
Lawrence, John L.
Lawrence, Mrs. John L.
Lawrence, Mrs. S.
Learned, Billings P.
Learned, Mrs. Billings P.
Lee, Prof. B. E

Leeds, Edward F.

Leeds, John G.

Leeds, Mrs. John G.
Lefferts, F. R., Jr.
Leggett, Francis H.

123

LePiemme, Mme. Louise C.

Leslie, Miss Gertrude
Levere, Mrs. Rose
Levy, Aaron

Lewis, H. D.

Leyes, Peter
Liebmann, Charles
Linder, Jr., Charles
Lipsius, Mrs. Claus
Little, Joseph J.
Livingston, Miss Ann L.
Livingston, Mrs. R. E.
Lloyd, Phoenix
Lockman, Jacob K.
Lockman, John T.
Loewi, Edgar

Loewi, Mrs. Edgar
Loewi, Valentine
Loomis, Alfred L.
Lord, Franklin B.
Lorenz, Mrs. Leo

Lorette, Miss Frances M. V

Lovedale, Charles

Low, Miss Nathalie F.
Lowell Miss C. Russell
Ludlow, Banyer

Ludlow Mrs James Ogden
Lund, John

Lusk, Miss Anna H.
Lyman, Samuel H.

Lynch, Mrs. Jasper

M

.Macdonald, A. J.
Mackay, Mrs. B.
Mackenzie, John
Mackenzie, Miss L.
Mackenzie, Miss M. _
Mackenzie, William‘
Mackey, Miss Helen
Macy, Mrs. V. Everit
Magnotti, R.

 

 
 
  
 
 

 

 

 

 

     

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Maitland, T. A.

_ Maitland, Mrs. Helen V. V.
Manigault, Mrs. Anne M.
Mann, Francis A.
Manson, Jr., Mrs. T. L.
Marcks, L. H.

Dry/larks, Mrs; Nanette
Marshall, Miss C. E
Marshall, Mrs. E. C.
Martin, C. C.

Marsh, Frank P.
Marvin, James M.
Mason, James Kent
Mattmann, Mrs. C.
Maurer, Mrs. Henry A.
lVlaxvvell, Henry W.
May, Moses

Mayer, David

Mayer, Siegfried W.
McBurney, Mrs. S. A.
McCaffrey, l}.

McCall, John A.
lVchonald. J.
McEwen, Mrs. D. C.
McGahie, John
McGirr, Wm. J.
McGovern, Rev. P.
McKendrick, Miss Claire E.
McKinstry, Mrs. L. L.
McLean, George H.

' McLean, John L.

l\/[ C\/7icl<ai‘. \V . N.
Mead, Miss Gertrude
Meagher, Mrs. T. F.
Meht, Mrs. Lena l.
Mergle, Anton
Meserole, A. V.
Metzger, Mrs. Abram
Michelbacher, S.
Millar, George W.
Miller, Mrs. C. A.
Minck, Henry
Mitchell, John A.

124

Mitchell. A. Roger
Moffatt, Mrs. Cleveland
Moller, Mrs. Anna M. B.
Moller, Miss S. Adelina
Moller, Edwin Clarence
Moller, Mrs. Peter
Moller, Peter

Monahan, Thomas
Monroe, Augustin
Monroe, Mrs. Elbert B.
Montant, A.
lVlontgomery, George L.
Morgan, George H.
Morris, John B.
Morrison, Mrs. Geo. Austin
Morrison, Henry P.
Morton, Hon. Levi P.
Mulholland. John E.
Munch, William
Munroe, Mrs. Chester
Murray, Miss Sophia 1.
Myers, George L.
Myer‘s, Miss Lillie

N

Namm, Adolph I.
Nash, John McL.
Nathan, Miss Madge
Neidlinger. Adam
Nelson, Mrs. Walter H.
Newell, Miss Lucy P.
Newgreen. Miss Emily
Newhall, J. P).

Newman, D. V. 8.. Philip H.
Newton, Miss A. G.
Nichols, Erickson N.
Nielsen, N. P.

Noble, Mrs. Elizabeth F.
Noble, Rob’t H.

North, Thomas M.
Nostrand, Frank

 




   
 
  
   
   
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
  
 
   
  
  
  
 
 
     

O

()be1 111ey er, Theodore
() ﬁrien, M. J.

Ochs, Ei‘nest

Ogden, ‘W. B.

()leott, George M.
Oothout, Mrs. William
(_“.)11 John C.

() Shaughnessy, Nelson J. W.

Onen,\1rs.ThomasJ.

P

Page, Edward D.
1’al111e1,1*1aneisD.
.1’a liner, George Q.
1’alme1, N. F.
I’almer, Mrs N.,F.
I’a1k,Joseph
I’a1ke1, Benedict
.1’a1‘ker, Miss Mary D.
1"arsons, Mrs. Edwin
l’arsons, William H.
I’awleson, Mrs. Kristine
1’earsall, Mrs. F. E.

l’eilert, Mrs. L.

' 1J.I1.

1’: l\1rs. J. H.

1’ei kins, Miss Fdith Howell
l’errx, Dr. John L.

1 hel1s Mrs. Anson G.

1’hil llips, Wm. D.
l’hoenix, LlOV d.
1’irie, S. C
1’ ohalski. H. Percy
l’omrov, Mrs. II.1{.
1’ 001 John H.
l’otter, Mrs. Geo. M.
1’otter, Wm.
J’reseott. Mrs. Annie E.
I’reston, Mrs. Geo. Rutledge
I’roctor. Miss H. F.
J’rout, Dr. J. S..

125

1.’1‘out, 1\11‘s.J. S.

I’urdy, J. H.

I’utnam, Geo. L.

I’yne, Mrs. Moses Taylor

0

N

Quimby, Frank I).
()uin, Louis
Quinlan. Thos F.
()uinlan, William
()uintai d, George W.

R

Rader, Gustavus W.
Rae Baer, Miss R.
Ramsay, Miss G1aee S.
Ixand George C.
Rapallo. Mis. Fdwa1d S.
Raphael, II.

Raymond, ( harles I1.
Rayno1, Miss I‘lo1enee
Read, W111. A.

Reid, Miss KatheIine

Remsen Miss 1\/Iargaret S.

Renwiek, William W.
Rinschler, Frank ‘
Robb, Mrs. Alexander
Roberts, Miss Mary M.
Rodewald, F. L.
Roemmele. J11, Fred.
Ronalds, Geo. L.
Roome, W. Iflarris
Rosenbaum, Mrs. Helen
Rosenbanm, Mrs. Mary
Rosenthal. Robert J.
Rosenwald, Henry
Rosenwald, Isaac
Rosenwald, Sigmund
Ross, William B.

Roth, George

Rouss, C. Broadway
Rowland, Thomas Fitch

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

   
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 

 

 

 

 

 
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Rowland, Jr., Thomas Fitch
Rushmore, S. W.

Russell, Mrs. James Towns’d
Ryer, George S.

S

Satterlee, Mrs. Herbert L.
Schaefer, Charles
Scheuer, Charles
Schloss, Alexander P.
Schmadeke, John E.
Schmidt, Mrs. John A.
Schmitt,‘ Mrs. Joseph
Schnurmacher, J.
Scholer, Dr. Gustav
Schrader, George
Schrader, Miss Emma
Schultz, Carl H.

Schurz, Miss Marianne
Scott, Mrs. Winﬁeld
Seabury, George J.
Seccomb, Miss Bertha H.
Seccomb. Mrs. E. A.
Seccomb, Miss Hilda C.
Sedgwick, Robert
Seligman, Mrs. Jesse
Sellew, Mrs. E. E.
Selvage, Mrs. Edwin
Seybel, D. E.

Sheldon, Mrs. Henry K.
Sheldon, James
Sheldon, Mrs. James
Sheldon, James O.
Shepard, Dr. A. W. '
Sheridan, Thomas W.
Sherman, Mrs. Charles E.
Sherman, Jr., Rev. R. M.
Shivler, Charles S.
Shriver, Mrs. Harry T.
Shults, John H.

Siegel, John R.
Siegman, Alfred

126

Siegman, Edward

Siegman, Richard

Siemer, John A.

Silver, Mrs. Charles A.
Sinclair, John J.

Skene, Mrs. Alexander J. C.
Small, Miss Blanche D.
Smart, Mrs. E. R.

Smith, A. W.

Smith, Crawford C.

Smith, Henry A.

Smith, J. Campbell

Smith, MasterJewell Kellogg
Smith, William Alexander
Smith, Mrs. M. Adele
Smith, Mrs. A. W.

Smith, Mrs. Andrew \V.
Smith, Mrs. Wm. Alex.
Snow, E. G.

. Snyder, Mrs. Josephine

Solomon, Robert G.

Spencer, F. G.

Spencer, Jr., Lorillard

Spencer, Jr., Mrs. Lorillard

Speyer, Mrs. James

Spring, Miss Anna R.

Spruck, Henry

Standish, Myles

Stanton, Mrs. John

Stanton, Miss Julia C.

Stedman, Miss Gertrude

Stein, A. M.

Stein, Conrad

Stephens, John H.

Stern, Benjamin

Steurer, Miss Anna

Stewart, Hugh

Stewart, Thomas J.

Stewart, William Rhinelander

Stewart, Mrs. Wm. Rhine-
lander

Stickney, J.

Stickney, Mrs. Joseph

     
   

 

-

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

"d 50me ‘B’LIBB‘JOA
leasof “-laLuLummoA
LIOSEJJBD ppansQ 'P-IL’IIEA
1,1 031093 '51” ‘JOJQEA

:1 'S 55qu ‘qﬁmqumqu LLBA
‘H ‘1’ 'SJN ‘OLUEL UBA

"I A’JBW SSIW ‘uapJO [112A
BUUV 551W ‘uapJQ UBA

CL 'XOIV 'SJW ‘JSON [112A
QDHV MEN SSHNL ‘1SQN UBA_
uomxaN '[ ‘ssaN [IRA

[[1 '31 's.11,\[ ‘uofa‘ul‘ ”BA
auuv 881W ‘uob’ul “EA
“003 assou Jog “BA

’1“ '31 ‘>poq-tapmzi\

'N 'H 'SJN 110.111“ ”BA
‘p‘ald ‘gA'UBSSOH ”BA

'21 ‘8 ‘ouguaIBA

'3 'V 'S.I]/\[ ‘QLIHLIQIBA

A

91103113 ‘II!.[I-131)Uﬂ
'9 AK 310330115111
SBLLIOELL ‘sqogllﬂ
umnum 11011113
'V ”1101‘ ‘Il3l)9(lﬂ

£1

'3 “EN (311ml

palnv 'SJW ‘LLBLLL13>1311_L
pan”! ‘ueuumpui

'S H 'SJW ‘-IO>1:>11_L

TI ‘51:)”li

[Idlopung 'SJW ‘.8011.I_L
'3 aﬁxoag ‘sgmzll

‘S (I 'f) 515ml

uqof ‘1)uoqsumoi
mumg ssgm ‘Elaqagpaol
'd '09:) “<qu

‘19 saunaf ‘onuul
mung 'S.II\T ‘1).IO}H_'L

:[ 991113113 'SlN ‘P-IOJUJ;

L251

   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
   
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
  

'V 'd '31“ ‘Aaumgl

'd 'uumuapagi

XEPJ ‘JanBanLLL

'V '11 'SJW ‘IIOJnoLLL

“s ‘A 'AA ‘GLUOLIL

'AA LL '5sz ‘OUJOLLL

'3 pluuBS ‘QUJOLLL

BULIV aqaqd 551W ‘QUJOLLL
'1‘ woqou '51” ‘uosduloqi
BPOLIH 581W ‘uoscluloqi

'(1 pmmpﬂ ‘uOSdLUOLLL

ﬂ 3!.191)9.I:[ ‘uosmuoqL

‘3 oympmll‘ "SULUOILL

ﬂ SBLUOLLL KIOIABJI

SGSON 'SJN ‘101A’BLL
11011112138 '3 'V 'SJN ‘JOIA-BL
sasow ‘Lunequauui

'H umunm “lama

Alum ssgm ‘19([13_L

J4

aunomg 11 5511K ‘spmmg
'1“ '03:) ‘LLIIBMS
pumﬁ
—}.1.112(1 ﬂamed 'Slm ‘LLIIBMS
*1 1911121“ ‘LUBPAIIS
'J saulef ‘11011115
AlOﬁQJf) 'sqq 1103,1115
1).I’8[[O}H ‘Olmg
[911011 ‘011113
'\f 311;.113111133 'SJN ‘uBAmng
'31 KEN SSH/\T ‘Saﬁmlg
'9 1101mm; 'SJN ‘Euong
'1) 110191114 ‘Suong
saumf ‘189113‘
[911111123 ‘881112118
(looef 'SJN ‘Ssnmlg
LL [ ‘A'Jolg
ugmpg ‘91101g
SdIQIId uosuv ‘89}[OJS
‘3 SBIUOILL ‘umuugg
'V UIIOf ‘nus‘

 

 




 

 

 

 
  
 
  

 

 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

W
\Vacle, William D.

Wagner, Frederick C
Wainwright, J l\ylayhew
Walker, Joseph
Walker, Mrs. \V. M.
Wallace, John

Walser, Dr. \Villiam C.
VVandell, Townsend
W’ard, lVlrs. E A. 1’).

Ward, Jr., l\/[rs. John Scely

Ward, L. B.

Warde, J. S.

Waters, \7. S. Dr. E.
Watson, Mrs. W. E.
Weatherhee. Edwin
iVVeber, Joseph

\Veekes, Arthur D.

W eeks, T. W.

Wells, Miss Julia Chester
VVelz, John

Wendell, Mrs. Gordon
Werner, Mrs. Henry
VVestcott, Miss Thalia
VVhalen, Richard
Wharton, Mrs. Edward R.
White, Horace

\Nhite, Miss l\/'lay \V.
White, Mrs. Jno. J.
White, S. V.

Whiting. l\/liss Matilda M.
Wicke. William

Wickett, S. G.

Wilhelm, Mrs. Emily
Wilkins, Morris

Wilcox, William G.
Willard, Miss Mary L.
Willcox, David

Willcox. Edwin E.
Williams, Paul E

126

    

)

\Villiston, Henry B.
\Villson, Charles Hill
\Vilson, Miss Elizabeth 1’).
\Vilson, (ien. James Grant
,\\7ilson, John M.

Wilson, l\"Irs. Lilian B.
\Vilson, i\i[aris.

\Wilson, Washington
\fVinans, Miss Isabel T.
“JinanS, Miss S. S.
\Ving‘, L. Stuart

Wing, Mrs. L. Stuart
Winter, George
\Vinthrop, Mrs. Grenville
VVissel, Andrew .
\Vitte, Charles G.

Wolfe, Christopher
VVolle, Master John
Wood, Mrs. Henry Duncan
Wood, Mrs. James
VVoolley, Edgar \V.
‘Noolverton, \Villiam H.
Wooster, Mrs. G. H.
Worden, William W.
VVotherspoon, Henry H.
\Vrig‘ht, Miss Harriet
VVyckoff, Peter

VVyman, Miss Esther

X7

Yeisley. Rev. George C.
Young. Dr. John J.

Z

Zehley. Mrs. John E
Zittel. Frederick

 




     

®bituarg 1Recorb

  
   
   
  
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   

The Society mourns the loss of twenty-one mem—
bers of whose death it has been notiﬁed during the

year 1900, viz. :

 

AMEND. C. A. L.
BELLINGER, J. P.

BRO\VN, LEWIS B.
BUSTEED, RICHARD, JR.
CODDINGTON, GILBERT S.
COSTER. C. II.
CUNNINGHAM, MISS E. G.
FRANKENBERG, DAVID.
GROII, JOHN

HILL, JAMES K.

HOLZ, BERNARD
HORRMANN. AUGUST.
HUBER. OTTO

KREIS. PHILIP

MORRIS. LEWIS G.

PYNE. MRS. PERCY R.
REYNOLDS, C. II.

SKENE. DR. ALEX. J. C.
STICIIT. MRS. AUGUSTA
SHEARMAN, THOMAS G.
VILLARD, HENRY

 

 

 




 

 

Collins D1. S. B .. $15
Congress Brewing Co. 5
Cook, Charles D ......... 3
Cook, Martin R. 5
C10ss Austin Irelmaiid
Lumber Co.. . .. . 5
Cunningham, Fmrank. .. . . . IO
Curie. Charles ............ 10
Curtis. G. 3Va1‘rington. . . . 50
D
Dahn, John A., 82 S011. ..
Dallett, Fred A ........... I
Dalley Henry. 1
Daly, Henry F. 2

Daly Mrs. Henry I1.

Daniel Richald C.

Dmenport, Ira.

Daxies, 3Iiss F.

Daxies 3I1‘s. 3Iansneld

De Branwer.e E.

De Coppett II.

De Ruiz Mrs. P. B.

Destin. 3Iiss Lottie 3’.

Dietrich. Charles I1.

Dillon. John F.. “In Mnem—
ory of Mrs. Dill 011 01 li—

‘V

1—1 1—1 [Q
UIIQP—‘Q—IUINOHUIUlOUIUI

1—1

yer '...... 15
Dodge Rex. D.Sti121rt [O
D1eier H. E . . . IO
Dreyfus, 3Iiss Ella ........ I
DuBois, Miss Ethel. 5
Duncan, John P. .. . . . 20
Dunning. H. A.. 5

E
Eastern Brewing Co. . 5
Eastman. Joseph ........ 50
Eddy, Mrs. Jane B. . .... 5
Eger 3Irs. T. G ......... 5
Eger 3Irs. T. G. “ In

Memory of Mrs. H I1g1r

Cole” . .. .. . 5
Elkins 3Iiss Ida ......... I
Ely. Ambrose K. S
Eppig. Joseph. . 5

F
Fahnestock 337111.. 300
Fairbanks 3Irs. Leland. 5

00
00
OO
00

00
OO
00
00

OO
00
00
OO
00
00
OO
00
OO
00
OO
00
00
00

OO
00
OO
00
OO
00
OO

00
00
00
OO

00
OO
00
OO

00
00

1:31

Fallerts Brewing Co.. Jos. $5
Farmers' Feed Co. .. .. . . . 5
Fink, Mrs. Charles. . . .. .. I
Fitzhugh, Jr., W. \V ...... 2
Flanagan. W111... .. .. .. .. 2
Flint, Mrs. Charles R. . . . . 4O
Foote,Dr. EB 5

Forbes. David. .. .. .. . . . .. 10
Ford, James B ........... 100
Frank. W. H. Brewing Co. 5
Frese Cl 1arsle Estate of.. 5

Friend A". IO

I11iend From a ' ....... 5
Frothingham, H. P ...... 10

G

Gasper, Mrs. J. Beach.. 25
Gates, Miss Charlotte G.. 2
Gibbes, .Miss Zela. . 45
Gilbert,3/V.J............. 5
Gilford, Samuel T ........ 5
Gillette, William .......... [00
Glatz, Mrs. Pauline. . . . . . 5

Goodridge, 3Irs. Frederic. 160

Gray, Mrs. George Z. . . . . 5

Griswold. Mrs. George... 10

Gudewdl. George ......... 100
H

Haight Mrs. A “InMem—
ory of Old Black Pete

and B11111o ”. .. .. . 5
Haines. John P. ..2,000
Ham Miss Abbie L... . . . 6
Ham, James M ........... 5
Hand 3I1s. G V ......... 2
Hauling Col. W111. J.. 5
Hardy. éjJamesu . . IO
Hardy, Voorhes 82 Co. . 20
Harkness I. V. . 25
Harkness 3I.rs V. . 25
Harrison. Mrs 3Ia1y L. .. 5O
Ha1 1y Edward. . . . . 0
Hawley E... . IO
Hawley Miss Jessie O. . I
Haydon, J.C ............. Io
IIearvn. Arthur H ......... 15
Hearn, Jas. A.. 82 Son ..... 2‘
Heckscher. John G ....... I

0
Hein A. V. . T.
Heissenbuttell 82 Nea1i1ig. 5

OO
00
00
OO
00
00
OO

00
00
OO
00
00
OO

00
OO
00
OO
00
OO
00
OO
00
OO
00

OO
00
00
00
00
OO
00
OO
00
OO
00
25
OO
00
OO
O O
00
00
OO
00

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 
  
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Heller, Miss Daisy ....... $5
Hellman. T‘l1eodo1e. .. .10
Henderson Mrs A. C 10
Hermann. Ferdinand. 10
Herrick, F. P ............
Hewson, J. H ............
Hillmann,1/Iiss Antoinette
Hoeeker J. B..
Hoffman, Very Rev. Dean
Hoffman, Aliss D. W.
Hoffman. Mrs. W. B.
Holland, Mrs. Helen AI. .
Holton. Mrs. ..... ..
Hornthal L. AI.
Memory of Marx
Sophia Ho1nthal”
Hoseh F.....
Hoyt Miss G. L ..........
Hubbard Tl1os. H ........
H11pfel B1ewing Co..
H11ssey.W. H.
Hnssey. M1s. W. II.
“H11yle1 s ”

HlVH
OCNUAOUIOIQUIP-

“ I11
and

H

to

H
OUIUI O’ U14; OLn.

h—(

I

Ilsley. S. A. & Co
India Whaif Brewing Co.
In Men101y of John W.
SehermerhOIn ’
“ In Memory of Tip
Iselin Adrian. . ..
Iselin, Miss Louise M1.
Iselin Miss Thelese E.
_Itgen E. H.

;_4
mm

1.4
0
(11:11:11 Om O

)9

I

Jaquins Mrs. Edward. .. .
Jevons Tl1os E ..........
IeX.M1‘.s Josiah ..........
Johnson James G.
Johnson S K._, D. V. S.
Jones A. II.

Jones George II.
Judson, H. I .............

\D

l

a
N—‘IN

N
O O’JIUI OUIUIN

L—d

K

Kelsey & Longhlin ......
Kelton Mrs. Catherine F.
Kennedy W111. I... .
Kenyon & Newton...

UIUI’J'IUI

    

OO
00
OO
00
OO
00
00
OO
00
00
00
00

)a

~D

oo
oo
oo
03
oo
oo
(10
00

OO
00

00
00
OO
00
O»?
OO

00
OO
00
OO
00
OO
00
OO

00
OO
00

132

King, AIiss Ellen ......... .3510
King & Adams.
King. J. B. & Co. .
Kipling.1 Miss Adeline AI.

lvU’IUl

L

V

I”

Lane. Mrs. James Warren.
Langdon,VVoodb111y G..
Ia11gle1N.. & Sons..
Lanier, Mrs. J. F. D. . ..
Lansing, Mrs A. B. .
Lauienee, AIrs. J. B111‘li1i1' 2
I eeds. Mrs. John G ......
Leggett. Francis. & Co..
Levere. Mrs. Rose. .. . . . .
Lewis, II. D .............
Lewis. Mrs. H. D. . .. ....
Lins. H.. & Sons .........
I ittle.Josepl1J ...........
LiVingston Miss A1111 I.
Loekitt s Gem ore Sons.
Loewi. Valentine .........
Long Island Brewery .....
Lord. Franklin B. .. .. .. .
Ludington. C. H .........

N
OUlUlUlUl O

10 01

H
01mm U1 U1 0 0101 OUlUlUl’Jl

[‘0

II

H

M

VIeAllister. H. J..
AIeClellan Edward J .....
AIeCurdy. Robert H .....
MeKean. Henry ..........
McLean. John S. .. .. . . . ..
AIahlstedt. J. D ...........
AIann. Miss Prestonia. . . .
A'Ianney. AIrs. Charles P..
AIanson. Mrs. T L...
Marston & Son.

AIartin AIrs. Prestonia AI.
Mathews. John The Fii 11
Mattman11.M1‘s.
May. IeVy & May. ..
Mayer. AIDrs AIary Tlios..
Meeker. C H. .
Meeker. AIis. C H... ..
AIeltzer Bros.
Merritt. AIrs.
Metealf Bros.
Milbank
Milbank
Miller,

to

H
Ul’Jl IQUIQJ OC/J'Jl lle

O OUIUIUI

1—11—4
Lice-1H

[O
O
(.110 OUI O’JI'Jl-Ul

J1ilia..

& Co..
Ioseph.

Mrs Joseph. ..
AIrs. Eliz. Smith..

H
010

    

OO
00

OO
00
O 3
OO
00
OO
00
00
0C)
00
00
OO
00
00
OO
00
00
OO
00

00
OO
00
00
OO
00
OO
00
Of)
00
OO
00
00
OO
00
00
00
00
OO
00
OO
00
OO

 




 

   
  
  
  
   
   
  
  
 
   
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
   
  
  
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
      

Miller, Mrs. Julia F. . . ... $5
IIillei Wmﬁ Starr ........ IOO
IIill ls, Mrs. J. B. IO
Mills, W. IIIcIIastei‘ ...... 5
\I M.” ................. 5
Mollenhauer Sugar Reﬁn-
ing 0 5
Moore,VVm. II. II ........ 5
IIoran, Miss Annie A. ... 2
IIora11,D. C. I
IIorgai1, George II. 5
Morton, John, & Sons... . 5
Moulton, Mrs. E ......... .2
Munger, H. C........ 5
Munroe, Mrs. Chester. .. . 5
Murray, Mrs. James F. . . . 25
N
Nassau Brewing Co. .. . .. IO
Neustadt, Sigmund. . . . .. . 10
Newton, Mrs. George B.. 5
Niles. Mrs. Philip. .. . . . .. 10
North, Thomas M. ....... 10
O
O Connor Mrs. II. I*. 5
Ogden. Mrs. G M. 5
Ogle, Joseph ............. 2
Olcott, Miss Fdith. ...... 100
Olix er Miss F. 1
Olmstead Mr s. Chas Fylei‘ IO
Osborn. Jr. Henry F. 10
Osborn. Mrs. IVm. Church 10
Otterson, W. Curtis ...... 10
P
Parrish. James C. . . . . . . .. 20
Parsons Mrs. Edwin ..... 5
Perkins Benjamin... 10
Phelps Mrs. Anson G. 10
Pinkerton. Robert A. 10
Plaut.S.&II............ 5
Porter Mrs. M. A... . . . .. (1.
Powell.D. B..... 5
Prescott. Msr A I‘ . . . .. .. 5
l’ryer. Miss A. C. 10

I’yne. Mrs. Percy II ...... 100

00
00
OO
00
00

oo
oo
50
00
oo
00
00
00
00
oo

00
OO
00
OO
00
OO

00

00.

OO
00
OO
00
00
00
OO

00
00
OO
00
00
OO
00
OO
00
00
00

II

Ramsay, Miss G. S... ... . ‘5
IIapallo, Edwald S.. .25
IIapallo,III1s Ideaid S. 10
Read. IVill iam A. .. 25
IIei11old,A. E. . I
IIhoades III1s.Ly11ia11 5
I\1eha1d, W111. L..1
' Robbins ” .............. 2
Robbins. Ills. E . .. 5.)
Rogers, Mis. F. G., & Miss

Peachy .. . .... 2
Rogers II. II ............ 5o
IIog‘eis, Mrs. \I. S. 5
IIushmoie I. W. .. 5
IIussel 1, W111. II... ..... 5

S

“ Savings of Carola and

Frederick "' ....... . . . .. 3O
SehaeIer, F. & III., Brew—

ing Co ................. 15
Schott Cha1les. . I
Schraeder, George II. Ii. 100
Sch1‘an1m,\Vm. 5
Seceomb, Miss Beitha II. 5
Seccomb Mis. E. A. .. .. IO
Seit/ II 5
Seligman, Isaac N. . . .. . .. 25
Seligman, Mrs. Jesse ..... 20
Sheldon, J1‘.. I lenry K. . .. 5
Shepard, A. VV.. MI). .. .. 10
Sherman, Mrs. Hannah N.
Shipman, Nelson ......... 5
Si111ons,Jr., Cha1les D. 10
S10: 111e IIeniV T. .... ... 20
Smith Geoi ge C ......... 5
Smith II. P .............. 5
Smith, IIIr.. Mary.. 1
Smith, Tom Bradley. .. 2
Sooysmith. Charles. . . . 5
Speyer, Mrs. James. .. .... IO
Squire Il'1s N. II. ” I11

Memory of N. II. Squire 5
Stanton. Jol 111 ............ 10
Sternbach. Charles ....... 5
Stewar.d IIiss S... ..' 5
Stiekney J. 2O
Stodda1 (I F. P ........... I
Stutz. Louis. . ... .. ... 5
Sutton. James F. . . . .. ... 5

00
00
OO
00
00
OO
00
OO
00

OO
00
OO
00
00

OO

00
00
00
00
00
OO
00
OO
00
00
OO

00
OO
00
00
OO
00
OO
00
00
OO

00
00
OO
00
00
OO
00
OO

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

T
Tappin, CharlLs L. . . . . . ..
Tatham, Mrs Beni .......

Tatham, \11‘s. lxebeeea.
Taylor, James R...
Thiele, E .................
Thomas Mrs. L11L11m\.
Thompson Geo. \.. & CH.
Thompson James. ..
Thompson l\1r.s Robt M.
Thorn G. R. 11.
Thorne Miss Pheba Anna
Thorne, Samuel. . . .. .. ...
Thorne. Mrs. T. \V .......
Thorne. W. V. S .........
Tiemann. Mrs. P. C.. “ 111
Memory of Our Dear
Old Noddy " ...........
Tisdale. Mrs. Emma L. .. .
Titus, Mrs. A. L. . . .. .
Topham. Miss A. E. .. ...
Toplitz, Mrs. Celia R .....

U

Ulshoeffer. W. G .........
Upham, Mrs. Elizabeth K.
U. S. Bung Mfg. Co..

V

“ Vall ey Cottage”
Va'11111ge11 Mrs E 11.
Vogel, W111.. & Bro. .. ..
Von Post, H. C..

‘%
r—4
0

3—1

IO N

U1U1U1UlOU1’J1U1U’1U1’J1ﬁJIUl

,
01—101mm

‘—4
O’JIO H

10

oo
oo
oo
oo
oo
oo
oo
oo
oo
oo
oo
oo
oo
oo

00
OO
00
OO
00

00
00

oo_

00
00
00
OO

.Winans Miss IsabLl.

W

Walker, Robert. .... .. . .. $10
Wallace, W111. A ..........
VVar,Ll Mrs. A1temus .....
Watson, Mrs. James 0.
Watson, Mrs \\ E .......
Weeks T W.

VVelL‘h Mls.A1exanLler\1
West,1 Miss Elizabeth 31..
\Vheeler, James R... .. . ..
White, Miss May \V ......
White, Miss Susan E .....
Whitney. Hon. ,V’Vm. C. ..
VVilLle’s Sons Samuel.
Will cox W111. G.

1—4 1—1
NC» 1—101

O

t

1

OUIUIUI OUI

1—4
(JIU
O

VVinans. \1iss M. \11toi-
nette . .. . .
Winship L. A.
Winthrop V11s. GrenxillL
Wisely ELlwar.Ll .. .
Wolfe.1\11s. John .........
Wolff, Lewis S...........
VVoolson. Ira H. .... .....
Worth, E. M .............
Worthington, Mrs. J. H.

\Vright, Miss Harriet .....

1—1

1—1

1—1
mmmwmmmmmm OJUIUl

X7
Yates, Miss E. A ......... 0

Z

Zimmerman. Mrs. J. E. . .. 5

 

    

OO
00
00
I O
00
00
OO
00
OO
00
00
00
OO
00
00

OO
00
00
OO
00
OO
00
OO
00
OO

50

OO

 




 

‘ STATISTICS FOR YEAR ENDING DECEMBER 3I, 1900.

The following summzny will be found interesting as showing the wo1k accomplished du1ing the )ea1 1900 by kind1cd
societies throughout; the United States and Canada. Because ﬁgures a1e omitted, it does not follow that no uork was
accomplished. In many instances leports were not ieceived and 111 othe1s the ﬁgures were not available or no 1ecords ue1e

 

 

l
1
l
l

l

 

kept. -

patqesw ‘

LOCATION. NAME OF SOCIETY.

191110 pue ‘soInux

-aueu1nq ‘A19A0391 ised

-nquie 11; 8199113 11101;
'paAonsop A1

'saouel
paAoulax slewiue 33.1121

'paAonsap Apuemnu
‘AJQAooau ised p91qesrp
1110.1} popuadsns £11,112;

slewiue 93.1131
'JOClBI

'paieanaAui

I
.10 ssapmoq‘slemtue news

pue paAiaoax sluteldwog
131110 pue sasxoq palqusiq

‘SQSJOH

3

. -odu191 sleuuul? PaquSICI l

 

1 ‘sunoo i
13111 u; painoasoxd saseg 1

5
i
1

 

ALABAMA.
Mobile . . . . . Mobile S. P. C. A. . . . . . . . . .
Birmingham . . . Birmingham Humane Society . . . . . .

ARIZONA.

Tucson . . . . . S. P. C. A. of Tucson . . . . . .

ARKANSAS. 1
Little Rock . . . Humane Society of Little Rock, Ark. .

CALIFORNIA.
San Francisco . . The San Francisco S. P. C. A.* . . . . . . IQOI 1 198
Los Angeles . . . The Los Angeles S. P. C. A. . . . . . . . .. .. . . . .

San José . . . . Santa Clara County S. P. C. A. . . . . . . 3 .
San Diego . . . . San Diego Humane Society . . . 9
Sacramento . . . The Sacramento County Humane Society. . 3 IQ

 

 

I
n . . .
o . a o
u - a -
. . . n
. . s o
1
u o n o
. o n o
. . . u
._ _ LN .....______ _______ _. ____..__.

o o o c
n o . n
u o u a
. . u -

c
.
' o

o

o

i\
.1.
H

5599 59 2550

 

 

‘l
O

' ClC/J

° CO I‘\
- l\ (C)

* Fiscal year.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

CALIFORNIA—Con.
Oakland . .
Redlands

Santa Barbara
Santa Cruz .
Fresno . . .
Sausalito . .
COLORADO.

Denver . . .
Colorado Springs
CONNECTICUT.
Hartford . . .
New Haven . .
Meriden .
DELAWARE.
Wilmington
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA
Washington .
FLORIDA.

St. Augustine
Jacksonville .
Pensacola
Tampa .
GEORGIA.
Augusta
Atlanta
Brunswick .
ILLINOIS.
Chicago.
Rockford
Quincy . .
Shelbyville .
Champaign

 

 

Oakland S. P. C. A.
S. P. C. A. of San Bernardino County, Cal.
Santa Barbara Humane Society.

Santa Cruz County Humane Society .
FresnoS..P..CA. ..
Marin County S. P. C. A. . .

Colorado Humane Society .
El Paso CO. Branch Colorado Humane SOC.

Connecticut Humane Society
The New Haven S. P. C. A.
Meriden Humane Society
Delaware S. P. C. A. . .

The Washington Humane Society}L

St. Augustine Humane Society .
The Jacksonville S. P. C. A. .
Humane Society .

Hillsborough County S. P. C. A.

Georgia S. P. C. A. . . . . .
Atlanta Humane Society . . .
Brunswick Humane Society . .

The Illinois Humane Society . .
Winnebago Co. Branch Illinois Humane SOC. *
The Quincy Humane Society . .
The Shelby Co. Br. of the III. Humane Soc
Champaign Branch Illinois Humane Society

 

 

 

 




 

ILLINOIS—Continued.
Springﬁeld. . .
Jacksonville .
Jerseyville .
Harvard . .
Danville . .
Whitehall . .
INDIANA.
Indianapolis
Crawfordsville
Evansville .
Fort Wayne
South Bend
Terre Haute
Muncie . .
Elkhart . .
Richmond .
Peru . . . .
Kokomo . .
IOWA.
Des Moines
Sioux City. .
KANSAS.
Wichita . .
Topeka . .
KENTUCKY.
Louisville .
Henderson
Frankfort
Covington .
LOUISIANA.
New Orleans .

 

)

The Humane Society of Springﬁeld . . .
Jacksonville Humane Society . . . . . .
The Jerseyville Humane S. P. C. A. & C. . . l
Harvard Branch of The Illinois Humane Soc. i
United States Humane Society. . . . . . é
Whitehall Humane Society . . . . . . .

The Indiana Humane Society . . . . . .
Montgomery Co. Humane S. P. C. A. & C. .
The Evansville Humane S. P. C. W'., C. & A.
Fort Wayne Humane Society . . . . . .

The South Bend Humane Society . . .

Terre Haute Humane Society . . .
Muncie Humane Society . . . . . .
Elkhart Humane Society . . . .
Wayne County Humane Society

The Humane Society of Peru, Ind.
Kokomo Humane Society. . . .

The Iowa Humane Society . . .
The Sioux City Humane Society

The Kansas City Humane Society.
The Foster Humane Society . . .

Kentucky Humane S. P. C. . . .
Henderson Humane Society . . .
Franklin County Humane Society
Kenton County Humane Society .

Louisiana State S. P. C. A. . .

I I + (38181351? 57.52.515.515;

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




NEBRASKA. 1
Omaha . . . .‘Nebraska Humane Society . . . . .. 1 ...1
1
1

O
.4.
.1.
(‘1

South Omaha . . 1 South Omaha Humane Society. . . . . IO
NE\\ H.~\.\11>s111111:. 1 1 '
Portsmouth . . . ‘1 New Hampshire S. P. C. A. . . . . . . 15 42 1 78 1 63
Keene . . . . . 1 The Keene Humane Society. . . . . . . 12 ‘ 18 1 7 f
NEW JERSEY. . ‘
Newark. . - The New JerseyS. P. C. A. . . .1 ,
Jersey City . . . The Hudson County District S. P. C A. . . 674 3 12.19
CapeMay. . . .1CapeMay,N..,J DistrictSP..CA. .
Vineland . . . . ‘ The Vineland S. P. C. A. . . . . I : 2 2
Morristown . . . Morris County Branch New Jersey S. P. C. A. c: 1 15 1 12 1 78
Camden. . . . ..TheCamdenS.P...CA . . . . .. ....1....
Hackensack . TheBergenCountyS. P. C.A. . . . ...:....1
Elizabeth . . . .1TheS.P..CAofUnionCounty,N.J. .. .. i..
Perth Amboy. Perth Amboy S. P. C. A. ‘ I I 2
Cranford . . . . Cranford, N..,J Br. ofTheN.J. S. P. CA 1.......
Paterson . . . . . Passaic County District S. P. C. A. . . !
Somerville. . . . ‘1 Somerset County S. P. C. A. . . . . . . 1
Princeton . . . . Princeton S. P. C. A. . .‘ . . 1

 

I |—-
- \O
a H

762 42 6676

00 '
. m .
. o] .

C0
-b—1
Cl

139

Lodi . . . . . . District Society in Lodi, Bergen County . 1 .
Ridgewood . . . Ridgewood S. P. C. A. . . . . . I 1 I4 ‘
NEW YORK. . 1
New York. . . . The American S. P. C. A.S . . 1 :15 i 3835 3095 292721

1
1 37
1 67 1 2301

' 1

103 3975
I

Sing Sing . . . . Sing Sing Br. of the American S. P C A * .
Rochester . . . . The Humane Soc. of Rochester, N. Y. ,.P C. A.
Buffalo . . . . . The Erie County S. P. C A.

Poughkeepsic . . The Poughkeepsie S. P. C. A. . . . . . .
Newburg . . . . The Newburg S. P. C. A. . . . . . 1
Oswego . . . . . S. P. C. A. of Oswego City, N. Y. . . . l
Fulton . . . .. SPCAofV1llageofFultonNY . . .......1
Syracuse . . .. TheCentralNchorkSPCA ............1....1......‘.1

 

IO 1 .95; 16
32 1 217
6

' - ' Cl '
u . . m . .
. . . 1n . .

I4 301....

m

H

[\

m .
m—r—r

1
l
1 I 0
1

1 Large and small. A S Includes work of its own agents throughout the State.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Nyack
Elmira .
Binghamton
Kingston
Watertown
Albany
Lockport
Cortland
Rome .
Auburn .
NORTH CAROLIN \.
Asheville
Wilmington

OHIO.

Cincinnati
Cleveland
Canton
Columbus
Toledo
Warren
Dayton
Athens
Sandusky
Portsmouth
Ashtabula
Chagrin Falls
Pomeroy
Youngstown
Yellow Sp1 ings
Tifﬁn. .
Chardon
Norwalk

NEW YORK—Caulk]. -

 

 

 

 

The Rockl and County S. P. C. A.

The Elmira S. P. C.A
Broome County S. P. C. A.

The Ulster County S. P. C. A.
Jefferson County S. P. C. A.

Mohawk and Hudson River Humane Society
The Niagara County S. P. C. A.
The Cortland County S. P. C. ..A . . .
The Stevens S. P. C. A. of Rome, N. Y.
The Cayuga County S. P. C. A..

The North Carolina S. P. C. A.
North Carolina S. P. C. C. & A.

The Ohio Humane Society

Cleveland Humane Society“?

The Canton Humane Society . .
Humane Society of City of Columbus, Ohio .
Toledo Humane Society* .

The Trumbull County Humane Society .
Dayton, Ohio, Humane Society P. C. C & A
AthensS. P. C. A. ..

The Erie County Humane Society.
Scioto County Humane Society
Ashtabula County Humane Society
The Chagrin Falls Humane S. P.C
Pomeroy Branch Humane Society
The Youngstown Humane Society .
Yellow Springs Humane Society.
Seneca County Humane Society

The Chardon Humane Society .
Huron County Humane Society

C. 8iA.

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

(.4) 1110,——C011_1‘1'11Itm’.
New Lexmgton . . Humane Society of New Lexington . .
Lima . . . . . . Lima Branch of Ohio Humane Society .

()REGON.
Portland . . . . The Oregon Humane Society

PENNSYLVANIA. . 1
Philadelphia . . . The Pennsylvania S. P. C. A. . . . . . 1 . 176 :16,167
Philadelphia . . . ‘ Women’s Pennsylvania S. P. C. A . . . . . . ’ ‘ 501 978
Lancaster . . . . Lancaster S. P. C. A. . . . . . . . ' ; ’ 1044
York... . . . TheYorkCountySPCA . .. ..
Pittsburg . . . . ; Western Pennsylvania Humane Society .
West Chester . . . Chester C. Aux’y Women’ s Br. Pa. S. P C A.
Reading . . . . ; Berks County S. P. C. A. . .
VVilliamsport . . . ‘ Lycoming County S. P. C. A
Scranton . . . . ‘ Lackawanna Br. of Pennsylvania S. P. C. A.
Erie . . . . . ‘ Northwestern Pennsylvania Humane Society.
VVilkesbarre . . . Luzerne Co. Humane Assoc’ 11 P. C. C. &A
Altoona . . . . . . The Central Pennsylvania Humane Society

RHODE ISLAND.
Providence . . . Rhode Island S. P. C. A.*

SOUTH CAROLINA.
Charleston . . . . The South Carolina S. P. C. A. .
Columbia . . . . Richland County, South Carolina, S.
Greenville . . . . ‘ Greenville Branch of So. Carolina S.
Spartanburg . . . ‘ The Spartanburg S. P. C. A.

TENNESSEE. ;
Memphis . . . . Tennessee S. P. C. A. & C.
Chattanooga . . . ‘ Chattanooga Humane Society
Knoxville . . . . Knox County Humane Society.
Nashville . . . . Nashville Humane Society
Jackson . . . . . 3 Madison County Humane Society

' H
o

-[\1n‘\]o C]

'61

01 Cl
' (D O O 1000
N H Cl

H

O
C‘

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

TEXAs
Galveston
Waco
Austin . .

UTAH.

Salt Lake City

VERMONT.
Chester . . .
Brattleborough
Rutland .
Burlington
Chester
Randolph
Manchester

VIRGINIA.
Richmond
Norfolk .
Portsmouth
Lynchburg

. \VASHINGTON.
Tacoma .
Seattle

WEST VIRGINIA.
Wheeling

\VISCONSIN.
Milwaukee.

BRITISH No
Halifax
Hamilton
Kingston
Montreal
Ottawa
Quebec

A\I12RIL \

The Galveston S. P. C. A. . . .
The Texas Humane Society .
Austin Humane S. P. C. A.

Utah Humane Society .

Vermont Humane Society.
The Brattleborough S. P. C.
Society P. C. A... . . . .
Burlington Humane Society
Chester Humane Society
The Randolph Humane Society
Manchester S. P. C. A

Richmond S. P. C. A.

Norfolk S. P. C. A.

Woman’ 5 Humane Society of Viiginia
The Lynchburg Humane Society

Tacoma S. P. C. A.
Seattle Humane Society

<

\Vest Virginia Humane Society.
Wisconsin Humane Society

The Nova Scotia S. P. C.
Hamilton S. P. C. A.*
Kingston Humane Society
The Canadian S. P. C. .A.
Ottawa Humane Society

1 Quebec S. P. C. A.

 

 

-I\

15

CG

38

-CG

 

247

54‘

I43

I2

 

38

116
IS

93

41

43

CI

 

In
01

946

 

22

«rm

207
1957

I815

447

1062

7‘)

 

I42




BRITISH No. AMERICA—i i
Continued. i

St. John, N. B. . ‘ New Brunswick S. P. C. A. . . . . . . . 44
Toronto. . . . . 1 Toronto Humane Society . . . . . . . . 88 107
Fredericton . . . ‘; Fredericton S. P. C. A. . . . . . . . . 3 4 1
Moncton . . . . Moncton S. P. C. A. . . . . . . . . . . ‘
Winnipeg. . . .lW’innipegS. P. C. A. . . . . . . . . ...
St.]ohn’s,N’ﬂd. .FSt.John’sS.P.C.A. . . . . . . . . .

mMI—d
HO

'ioc') II. 5'75;

 

 

 

 

 

 

I43

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

HISTORY.

Prior to the enactment of the statute entitled “ An Act to
Prevent the Cruel and Improper Treatment of Cattle,” intro—
duced in England in July, 1822, by the late highly esteemed
Mr. Martin, the general treatment of animals in all countries
of the world was inhuman.

* “ Whether from ignorance, thoughtlessness, heedlessness,
or wanton brutality, animals were subjected to extreme pain
and torture, and their condition failed to excite the commiser-
ation of the public. The best classes of society contained a few
persons only who openly protested against this cruelty, while
the majority were engaged in divers pastimes that caused
much animal suffering, and regarded with scorn and indigna-
tion any appeal made to them in _favor of the brutes. Naturally,
the lower and lowest orders were therefore more or less insen-
sible to the claims of lower animals; taking cue as well as ex—
ample from their betters, they also indulged in cruel sports
and maintained a right in man to behave toward dumb do—
mestic dependents as he pleased. V In fact, the protests of
humane people were silenced by ridicule which came from the
platform, the pulpit, and the senate, as well as from the galled
‘pens of satirists.

“ No better instance can be quoted of the prevailing indiffer—
ence of men in even the highest social position to the feelings
of animals than the mocking treatment of the Peers when
Lord Erskine stood up in the House of Lords, in the early

* From the 74th Annual Report of the Royal Society, London.

 

 




 

 

    

    

145

part of the present century (1811), to ask for justice to the
lower creatures of God. lnsensible alike to his moderate de—
mands and appeals for compassion and mercy to all defenseless
animals that man had pressed into his service, the chamber
broke out into open derision when he argued in favor of their
rights to humane treatment. It is said that loud jeers, vulgar
ejaculations, indecorous demeanor, and even whistling and
cock-crowing were practically the only reply given to the
grand speech of this high—souled man. No wonder, therefore,
that the man in the street ridiculed also, and that callous coach-
men and other persons vented their unrestrained passions on
animals without let or hindrance. The public records of eighty
years ago certainly do show that the friends of the brutes were
few, and their foes many and cruel.

“The most reckless and savage punishment, and the most
disgusting disregard to the bodily sufferings of animals, were
exhibited unconcealed in the highways and streets daily; fester—
ing sores, discharging wounds, excruciating lameness, and
tottering inﬁrmity called not forth modern devices to evade
public reprobation, and without disguise the lash and goad
. worked their bloody inﬂictions. The uncombined efforts of
a few benevolent individuals were no check to these evils; and
hence it became necessary to establish a society which should
unite the friends of dumb animal creatures.

“ The founders of this Society met on the 16th of June, 1824,
and inaugurated the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals, appointed a committee, and conceived the following
plan of operations:

I. The circulation of suitable tracts gratuitously, or by cheap sale,
particularly among persons intrusted with cattle, such as coach-
men, carters, and drovers.

2. The introduction into schools of books calculated to impress on
youth the duty of humanity to inferior animals.

3. Frequent appeals to the public through the press, awakening more
general attention to a subject so interesting, though too much
neglected.

IO

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

SUBSCRIPTION TO “CENTURY FUND.”

At a recent meeting of the Board of Managers of The American Society for the Pre-
vention of Cruelty to Animals it was resolved that the President be requested to communicate
with the friends of the Society and ask their assistance in the matter of establishing a

“CENTURY FUND.”
Subscribers to the “CENTURY FUND" donate $IOO annually towards defraying the
general expenses of the Society, and may discontinue their subscriptions at any time.

Ill-OIIIIIDQI....I.|...Q..-.......l...-......g.-Q.-l.QI.-r---------ll-\------Hil-I-u-nu-nn-aaamanushuunmuuaunuum

New York .......... a .............................. 190 .......
T0 ./OHN P. H/l/NES, Presz'denl.
Sir:

/ berelzy snbserlbe One Hnndred Dollars ($100), payable annually,
in llye monll) 0f _____ _ . .c . a . ccccccccc , 1‘0 [726 “CENTURY FUND” 0f T/ye
Arne/”lean Soez'elfy for the Prevenllon of Cruelty 1‘0 Animals, reserving l/ye rz'glzl l0
revoke l/n's snbserlpllan al pleasure.

 

Name ....... . .................................

Address ...............................................................................................

 

 

 




 

.-..—.....—..-. ...... -. ~-.-.......,

. J 1 vii r . it!.§uﬂuﬂp In}!

 

_. ,__h A ~‘.____‘

 

 




T1112 AMERICAN SOCIETY

F 0 R T H E

PREVENTION 01? CRUELTY TO ANIMALS

1Nc111<1m1<;\’1‘1«:11 1w THE STATE OF NEW YORK?
APRIL. 10, .1866.

'1‘11111'1‘1'-~1r11r1‘11 ANNUAL REPORT.

run 1111: new ENIHNG DECEMBER 3:, 1900

JOHN 1”. HAINES, PRESIDENT.

 

HEADQUAR'I‘ERS OF THE SOCIETY:
MA11150N .<\\'EN1'E AND 26TH STREET

N E \V' Y O R K

1901

 




 

 

 

 

 

HEADQUARTERS OF THE SOCIETY,

TWENTY-SIXT H

STREET,

 

 

MADISON AVENUE AND
NEW YORK

 

 




 

9

ever, was held for other purposes than those of genial social
intercourse, and under the guidance of the president an en—
deavor‘ was made to secure a much-needed reform in the treat-
ment of horses in time of war. It is difﬁcult for any one to
imagine the fearful sufferings which war imposes upon these
useful servants of‘man. I myself have not been a witness of
them, and I should hesitate to repeat the frightful stories
which are told by those who have been so unfortunate as to
witness the spectacle. A few lines from the letter of an Eng—

lish war correspondent almost make one shudder: "

“ Of all the pitiful, heart-rending sights I have ever seen none has
compared to this view of hundreds upon hundreds of dead and dying
horses on this one hundred miles of war’s promenade. The poor beasts
had done no man any harm—in fact, each one had been a man's reli-
ance and to see them shattered by shell and then ripped open by
vultures, often before they were dead, was enough to snap the tenderest
chords in one’s breast. They had not deserved and could not under-
stand their horrible ill-luek. For some reason, hundreds had dragged
themselves to the main road, and then had died either in the track of
the wagons or by its side. But the worst horror was to come when I
approached close upon the last battleﬁeld, only twenty-four hours after
the ﬁght at Driefontein. On this ﬁeld not nearly all the horses were
yet dead. On the contrary, as I came up beside the prostrate body of a
beautiful steed it would slowly and painfully lift its head and turn upon
me a pair of the most pleading, woe—stricken eyes, full of a hunger to
know what I could do for it. 'All I could do was to drive on, for I had
no ﬁrearms, even for my own protectiOn, deep in an enemy’s country
where we had put no single armed man to guard the route of our sup—
plies and reinforcements. My companion used to turn and look back
at these dying horses, only to ﬁnd~ that they were still straining their
sad eyes after the cart. Then he would say, ‘He is looking at us' yet;
oh, it makes me ill; look, he is staring at us like a guilty conscience.
What can we do? I wish we did not see such things.’ For my part, I
would not look behind. Heaven knows it was bad enough to see
ahead, where the horses stumbled and fell from weakness, while the
horrible vultures swept in circles over them, eager to rend their living
flesh. Oxen, too, were lying everywhere, with straight, stiff legs sil-
houetted against the veldt.”

 

Surely there must be some way to remedy so dreadful an

 




 

 

I7

plainants, in all cases where arrests are made at their request,
must appear against the offender at all times when required,
until the case has been ﬁnally disposed of by the proper legal
tribunal.

The above explanation as to the power of the Society is
deemed necessary in view of the many unjust comments made
by persons unfamiliar with legal procedure as to the manner ,
in which the Society prosecutes its work.

Every complaint received is investigated, and it may be
safely said that only about twenty per cent. of them are well
founded, many being made through spiteful motives and
others untrue in every particular, although written in language
implying good faith.

It might appear by reason of the use of electric and other
powers as a substitute for horse power that the physical work
of the Society has greatly diminished. Such, however, is not
the case. Changes of conditions in one direction open up
new schemes in others. The number of work animals is not
materially lessened by the changes referred to—they have only
been transferred to other ﬁelds of labor.

Drivers, and in fact all persons having the care and custody
of animals, realize that the general public are taking more
active interest in the subject of the treatment of our dumb
friends, which is evident by the noticeable absence of the check
rein and the less frequent use of the whip and other instru—
ments of animal torture.

STA BLES

Much has been done toward making existence more com-
fortable for horses in underground stables and dilapidated
shanties erected in open lots and rear alleyways. Our work in
this direction has met with much opposition from those own—
ing or renting such places, for the reason that in order to give
the animals better sanitary conditions slight expense had to
be incurred. In every instance no thought was given to the

2

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THIS HORSE WAS SUFFERING FROM PAINFUL SO'RES UNDER COLLAR AND SADDLE
& P. 24607

<15

 




 

April 3.

April 4.

April 9.

April 9.

April I I.

April 12.

 

33

Patrick Manx was sentenced to thirty days' imprison-
ment in the County Jail by Police Justice Capron of White
Plains, N. Y., for not properly caring for and abandoning
a sick horse.

Isaac Katzper, for causing and permitting one Samuel
Katz to drive a horse while it was in a weak, sore, and
exhausted condition, attached to a truck heavily loaded with
merchandise, was ﬁned twenty dollars by the Court of Spe-
cial Sessions of the Second Division, Judge Fleming pre-
siding.

Abraham Bernstein was sentenced to pay a ﬁne of twenty—
ﬁve dollars, or be imprisoned ten days by Judges Jacobs,
McKean, and Holbrook of the Court of Special Sessions of
the First Division, for compelling a horse to haul a loaded
express wagon while the animal was shoeless, lame, sore,
and unﬁt for work.

Thomas Gorman was sentenced to sixty days’ imprison—
ment in the City Prison by the Court of Special Sessions of
the First Division, Judge Jacobs presiding, for striking a
horse over the head and body with a bar of iron and over
the head with the butt end of a whip. It was testiﬁed to at
the trial of the defendant that the horse was playfully trying

.to get an apple or some fruit from a nearby stand. The

3

defendant struck the animal ﬁrst with the bar of iron then
with the butt of the whip. The horse was badly hurt.

John Hirt, for driving a horse having the disease known
as glanders, which is of a contagious nature and dangerous
to the life of human beings as well as animals, through the
streets of the city, was convicted and sentenced to pay a
ﬁne of ﬁfty dollars or be imprisoned for twenty days by
Judges McKean, Holbrook, and Hinsdale of the Court of
Special Sessions of the First Division. Hirt claimed that
he had the horse on trial. and if it suited him he was to pay
ﬁfteen dollars for it. The veterinary surgeon testiﬁed that
the animal was in the last stage of the disease and its condi—
tion was perfectly obvious to a person having an ordinary
knowledge of horses.

Christ Eifert, for offering for sale and causing and permit-

 




 

 

May 21.

Flay 23.

May 28.

June 5.

June 8.

41

Samuel Geller was convicted and sentenced to pay a ﬁne
of ﬁfty dollars, with the alternative of twenty days in the
City Prison by the Court of Special Sessions of the Second
Division, Judges Keady, Fleming, and Fitzgerald presiding,
for driving a horse attached to a truck heavily loaded with
grain while the animal was lame and unﬁt for work. The
veterinary testiﬁed that it was suffering great physical pain.

Jeremiah Murphy was arrested by one of the Society’s
officers while driving a horse which at the time was very
lame in the off fore foot. The animal was attached to a
truck loaded with sand. Upon being arraigned before the
City Magistrate, Murphy stated that he was compelled to
drive the horse by one John Harrison. A warrant for the
arrest of the latter was issued. and upon being arraigned
before the Court of Special Sessions of the Second Division.
Judge Keady presiding, he was convicted of having caused,
procured, and permitted the horse to be worked in the con—
dition described, and was sentenced to pay a ﬁne of $150 or
be imprisoned for sixty days. Sentence was suspended in
the case of Murphy.

John J. Scully, of VVestchester, pleaded guilty to having
compelled a team of horses to draw a truck while one of the
animals was lame from an old quittor, and the other was in
a pitiful condition from lameness and weakness. He was
ﬁned thirty-ﬁve dollars, with the alternative of ﬁfteen days
in the City Prison, by Judges Holbrook, Jerome, and Hins—
dale, of the Court of Special Sessions of the First Division.

For compelling a poor, old, lame horse, which was fast—
ened to the rear of a wagon, to be dragged along the streets.
Sisto Balloe was ﬁned ten dollars, with the alternative of
three days’ imprisonment, by the Court of Special Sessions
of the First Division, Judge Jacobs presiding. The horse
could scarcely put its foot to the ground, and in addition
was sore, weak. and feeble. Balloe’s defence at the trial of
the case was that he was taking the animal to the dock to
be shot. He had already compelled the horse to walk sev—
eral miles. The animal was humanely destroyed.

For compelling a horse suffering at the time from lame—
ness, caused by a suppurating split hoof, Joseph Glasel was

 




 

Sept. I 1.

Sept. 13.

Sept. 13.

Sept. 15.

49

the pasf year was that of Byron E. Harrington, driver for the
American Ice Company. Harrington had a team of ﬁne
strong horses and was engaged in delivering ice in West
Forty-fourth Street. One of the horses, a magniﬁcent
gray, for some cause or other angered the driver, who seized
the instrument known as the ice—shaver, which is a four—
pronged steel blade measuring four inches in width, with a
handle three feet in length, and with all his force jabbed the
w ‘apon into the animal's ﬂank, making a wound about four
inches deep and the width of the weapon. The veterinary
surgeon put overa dozen stitches in the wound. Several
men and women testiﬁed to the cruelty of the
act at the trial of the defendant in the Court of Special Ses—
sions of the First Division, Judge Holbrook presiding. Har—
rington made a feeble defence, which availed him nothing,
and he was sentenced to pay a ﬁne of $100 or be imprisoned
for sixty days in the City Prison. The horse was taken to
the veterinary hospital and was unﬁt for work for several
weeks.

 

 

witnesses

Minnie Fenety was ﬁned twenty-ﬁve dollars. with the al—
ternative of twenty days’ imprisonment, by Judges Courtney,
Foraker. and Keady, of the Court of Special Sessions of the
Second Division, for having thrown a dog through a third—
story window to the ground, breaking the animal's back.
She could give no reasonable excuse for the offence.

John Earnest was sentenced to pay a ﬁne of ten dollars by
the Court of Special Sessions of the First Division, Judge
Holbrook presiding, for wantonly injuring his neighbor’s
cat by kicking it and then throwing it down a ﬂight of stairs.

Henry Dougherty, of Stapleton, S. 1.. sixteen years old,
was sent to the Catholic Protectory by the Court of Special
Sessions of the Second Division, Judge Fleming presiding,
for having wantonly beaten a pet cat with a club and thrown
the animal into the river while still alive.

For compelling a weak, sore, and exhausted horse to pull
a wagon heavily loaded with merchandise. Thomas McDon—
ough, of Palisades, N. J.. was sentenced to pay a ﬁne of
twenty—ﬁve dollars or be imprisoned for ten days by Judges

4

 




 

 

MANUAL OF

KINDNESS TO ANIMALS.

For use in Schools, Sunday-schools and
‘ Familiesi

 

“ Is well calculated to engage the child’s attention, and teach
it to be humane to all living creatures.”—]Vew Yer/c Trz’émze.

“ It aims to teach the utility of animals as an argument against
their torture, and the preface suggests that individuals are cruel

‘ through want of thought, rather than want of heart.’ ”
——New Yer/c Hera/a7.

“ Admirably constructed to impress on the youthful mind kind.
treatment to all the brute creation.”—-S]§z'rz'z‘ of t/ze Times.

“ Perusal of its pages warrants us in predicting for it a most
useful career.”—— T/ze Rider and Driver.

“ It is a useful and suggestive book for children, and it con»
tains some instruction which a large number of adults are much;
in need of.”——Ne7w Yer/c I/Verla’.

“ The little manual should ﬁnd lodging in the living-room of“
all families where there are young children, or where horses,
cats, dogs, rabbits, birds, cows, poultry, gold-ﬁsh or other
animals are kept for use or amusement,”——P/zz'[azieZp/zz”a Ledger.

 

Sample copies, four cents each.

 

Published at Headquarters of the Society. Madison
Ave. and 26th St., New York

 




 

    

 

    

67

Winnebago County Branch of The Illinois Humane Society.
Kat/#0211].
WM. H. FITCH, M.D., Pres. MRS. ROBERT REW, Secretary.
The Quincy Humane Society.
Quincy.

H. P. WALTON, President. LYMAN MCCARL, Secretary.
The Shelby County Branch of The Illinois Humane Society.
Shelbyvtlle.

DR. T. L. CATHERWOOD, MR5. H. J. HAMLIN, Secretary.

President.
Champaign Branch of The Illinois Humane Society.
C ham pal git.
HENRY TR’EVETT, President. A. H. BRYAN, Secretary.
The Humane Society of Springﬁeld.
Springﬁeld.
FRANK W. TRACY, President. HOWARD K. WEBER, Sec.
Jacksonville Humane Society.
Jacksonville.

A. C. WADSWORTH, Pres. WM. PATERSON, Sec. pro term.
The J erseyville Humane Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals and Children.

Jerseyvllle.

Miss ADA C. DAVENPORT, DR. H. R. GLEDHILL, Sec.
President.

Harvard Branch of The Illinois Humane Society.
Harvard.

W. C. WELLINGTON, Pres. MRS. W. C. WELLINGTON.
Secretary.

United States Humane Society. A
13 East Main Street, Danvllle.

JOHN W. HALLS, President. I. N. KINNEY, Secretary.
The Whitehall Humane Society.
Whitehall. '
FRANCIS FOWLER, Pres. ~ H. O. TUNISON, Secretary.




 

 

 

 

 

 

    

 

 

 

    

74
Cape May County, N. J., District Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals.

Cape May.

DR. EMLIN PHYSICK, Pres. T. R. BROOKS, Secretary.

The Vineland Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Vimland. .
REV. R. B. MOORE, President. REV. R. B. MOORE, Secretary.

 

The Morris County Branch of The New Jersey Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

M orm’stown.

DR. E. FAYETTE SMITH, MISS LOUISE SHELTON, Sec.
President.

The Camden Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
C amdm.
WILLIAM J. COOPER, Pres. A. T. SELLERS, Secretary.

The Bergen County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals.

H ac/eensack. ,
REV. JOHN C. VOORHIS, Pres. WALTER ELY, Secretary.

The Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals of Union
County, N. J.

Elizabeth.
E. P. EDWARDS, President. J. C. COLE, Secretary.

Perth Amboy Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Perth Amboy.

IVIISS LOUISE BENTON, Pres. IVIRS. FLORENCE KITCHEL,
Secretary.

Cranford, Union County, Branch of The New Jersey Society for
the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Craizfom’.

GEORGE A. MORRISON. ALFRED H. MILLER, Sec.
President.




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

 

  

82

 

Ashtabula County Humane Society.
Ashtabnla.
W. M. STRADER, President. MRS. W. M. PENFIELD, See.
The Chagrin Falls Humane Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Children and Animals.

Chagrin Falls.
A. H. WILLIAMS, President. C. E. RYDER, Secretary.

Pomeroy Branch Humane Society.
Pomeroy.
ARTEMUS WILLIAMS, Pres. MRS. H. J. EWING, Secretary.

The Youngstown Humane Society.
Youngstown.
REV. S. R. FRAZIER, President. LILLIAN F. PIERCE, Sec.

Yellow Springs Humane Society.
Yellow Springs.
CHARLES HAMILTON, Pres. CHARLES E. ADAMS, Sec.

Seneca County Humane Society.

Tiﬁin.
DR. E. J. MCCOLLUM, Pres, IRVIN N. REX, Secretary.

The Chardon Humane Society.
Chardon.
L. C. COWLES, President. M. L. MAYNARD, Secretary.

Huron County Humane Society.
Norwalk.

F. B. CASE, President. Miss MARY A. STEVV'ART, See.

The Humane Society of New Lexington.

New Lexington.
REV. HENRY BEEMAN, Pres. . Secretary.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

    
  
  
 
  
  
      
   

 

 

     
   
   
  
      
 
    
 
     
 

90

SOUTH AMERICA.

Sociedad Argentina Protectora de los Animales.
C alle Paraguay, 1059, Buenos A yres, Argentine Republic.

DR. IGNACIO L. ALBARRA- ANDRES EGANA, Secretary.
CIN, President.

Sociedad Protectora de los Animales.
Rosario de Santa Fe, Argentine Republic.
\V. BARNETT, President. W. MACWHIRTER, Secretary.
1 Sociedad Protectora de los Animales.
1 M endoza, Argentine Republic.
MANUEL T. CABRAL, Pres. PASCUAL TELLEMUS, Sec.
Sociedad Protectora de los Animales.

Rio de faneiro, Brazil.
A. M. N. GONCALVES, Pres. J. ALBINO DA CRUZ, Sec.

Sociedad Protectora de los Animales en Venezuela.

Caracas, Venezuela.

 

 

 

 

 

SENORA ADE LAIDE DE ALMEIDA E VASCONCELLOS, Presi-
dent and Secretary.

Sociedad Protectora de los Animales de Montevideo.
Montevideo, Uruguay.

JUSTUS CUBILO’, President. LUIS ALBERTO HERRERA,
Secretary.

 

 

 

v1 _ WEST INDIES.

1 1‘ I ' Trinidad Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

.1 1 1 ' 1 Port of Spain, Trinidad.

71 . Sm HUBERT H E. JEMING— KATHARINE H. BOURNE.

1 1 1 HA President. Secretary.
, .z . 1

11 I C BERMUDA.

11 Bermuda Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

1 1 Bermuda.

HON. T. N. DILL. President.

  

CLAUDE W. MCCALLAN. Sec.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

INDIA—Continued.
Mandalay . .
Rangoon (Burma)
Singapore . .

IRELAND.
Belfast
Cork .
Dublin
Kilkenny
\\':1terfor1‘1 \\ aterford S. P. C. A.
\\'exford County \Vexford S. P. C. A.

1'1‘\1.\'. 1
111111111113 '1‘11e E111111:111:1 S.
1:11).“‘111‘1‘ ‘ 1’f111. Hf .\ (“)1
(1111111
(11111111111
.\1;1'.;1'1‘.t.1.
.\11'..1.11

.iThe Ulster S. P. C. A.
iCork S. P. C. A. .
'Dublin S. P. C. A.
S P. A

of 21111111111y
1:11 1ret11‘e

‘51-‘11;

.\\~'1111t' X11-.1'::1'.}."

11:11-11:11
1(11:::1~
S111 1(1'1221»
1mm
.‘11 1.1.111.
311111-1111
1111111511
N 1111' 215.11.15.11.
(1111\11‘11111‘1‘11
1111111111111

 

H. D. R. Tworney

Count Calderari.

.Rt. RevHJ M. Strac11a11,.M.D W. Alan Leonard.

.Sir Wm. Q. Ewart Bart.

. St. Vincent Down.

[Boag.
\V. H. Patterson & Robt.

\1exa11der 1\1COstricl1, JP. John C. Newsom.

:;.Rt Hon. Lord Ardilaun

. 1111111111111~11111>111C:1

_.1Rt Hon. Lord \lauriee 1

I. 1117.1'1r:111 . . .1"

\11-;1-‘_:=.

. 1‘,
are 1)11r;1111

_1. Y. D:1111:11~111 111111-1111.

. _111811(‘(‘ \\'1111:11111

.George Ryall.
.Thomas Kough.
Robert McCurdy.

Thomas Harpur.

111‘. 1’.

(1:111:111'1’1111.

_ “1114‘

.\ n .‘ ..
Y

.

A

’vv-t
i...

.\1. 111111111.

11:. 12. C.

(3111111.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

106

CLINTON COUNTY.

BUTLER, EDWARD A ................................ Plattsburgh
LIBERTY, LOUIS ..................................... Plattsburgh
MOORE, JOHN N. . .' ......... - .......................... Champlain

COLUMBIA. COUNTY.

STOTT, FREDERICK DU BOIS ........................ Stottville
WHITBECK, CORNELIUS ............................. Craryville

DELAWARE COUNTY.

HALSTEAD, GEORGE .................................. Stamford
VAN TASSLE, ALTON L ............................... Treadwell

DUTCHESS COUNTY.

CRUSE (M. D.,) THOMAS K .................... Wappinger’s Falls
MOITH, THEODORE .................................... Fishkill

ESSEX COUNTY.

JOHNSON, WARREN .......................... _ ..... Ticonderoga
STANTON, JOHN W ............................... Elizabethtown

FRANKLIN COUNTY.
DONOHOE, M. C .......................................... Malone

FULTON COUNTY.

BUTTON, MILLARD F ............................... Gloversville
DAY, JULIUS B .......................................... Mayﬁeld
HOWARD, CHARLES ................................ Gloversville
KIBBE, ARTHUR D .................................. Gloversville
LENTZ, WILLIAM ..................................... Johnstown
ROOT, ERASTUS ..................................... Gloversvillc

GENESEE COUNTY.

HOUSTON, FRANKLIN .................................. Le Roy
ROGERS, JOHN L ...................................... Pembroke

GREENE COUNTY.
DECKER, ROSCOE .................................... Prattsville
HORTON, J. BRADLEY ................................... Athens

 
  
  
 
 
   
  
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
    




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Dickinson, M15. H. A.
Dilks, George W.

Dodge Mrs. Charles Cleve (1
Dodge Ge01ge E

Dodge, Norman W.

Draper, Mrs. Henry
Dunlap, Cornell

E

Eger,.Mrs. T. G.
Ehret, George
Eno,'Wm. F.
Ewen, Miss C. G.

F

Faber, Mrs. Angelica B.
Ford, William T.

Ford, James B.
Foster, James

G

Gebhard, William H.
Gerrish, Mrs. Frank Scott
Gilbert, Frederick E.
Gray, Horace

Gudewill, George
Gunning, William J. '

H

Hadden, John A.

Haines, John P.

Haines, Mrs. John P.
Halsey, Mrs. Frederic Robt.
Hamilton, John L.
Hammond, Edward A.
Hard, Miss Laura W.
Hawkins, Gen. Rush C.
Hawkins, Mrs. Rush C.
Henderson, Mrs. A. C.

114

   
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
  
  
   

Hicks, Benjamin D.
Hoe, Jr., Robert
Holbrook, Miss Lilian
Howard, Bronson
Howard, Mrs. Bronson
Humfreville, J. Lee
Hunt, Miss Ann
Huntington, Archer M.

I
Iselin, Adrian

J
James, Mrs. John S.
Jesup, Morris K.
Johnston, J. Boorman

K

Kemp Edward
Kennedy, John L.
Kingman, Mrs. Martin E.
kip, Henry S

Kohlsaat, J. W.

Kraus, Miss Emma

L

Lanier, Charles

Lee, Miss Alleine

Lewis, Mrs. HenryDickinson
Liautard, Dr. A. F.

Lilley, C. W.

Low, Joseph T.

M

McGee, James

Marié, Peter

Marlor, Henry S.
Marsh, John Edward
Marshall, Charles H.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
 
 
   
    
      

Heppe, Chas.Theodore, M.D.
Herr, Mrs. A.

Herrick, M.D., Everett
Herrmann, Mrs. Adelaide
Herrmann, Mrs. L.
Herzfeld, Richard

Hess, Mrs. N.

Hess, Selmar

Hett, Frank

Hewitt, Miss Sarah Cooper
Heyland, E. A.
Higginson, Miss Dorothy L.
Hill, Warren E.

Hinton, Miss S. McV.
Hitchcock, Miss F. A.
Hitchcock, Mrs. Welcome G.
HiX, Mrs. Preston
Hoefer, Charles R.
Hoegg, William

Hoffman, F. B.
Hoffmann, Jacob

Hogan, Charles W.
Hohns, Herman
Holbrook, Edward
Holbrook, Mrs. Edward
Holden, Mrs. K. V.
Hollins, Jack Knapp
Hollins, Mrs. H. B.

Hood, David

Holt, Miss Winifred
Hone, Mrs. Chas. Russell
Hopi, Max G.’

Hopkins, H. C.

Hopkins, Mrs. Sheldon
Hopkinson, Miss Jennie M.
Hornthal, Lewis M.
Horrmann, August
Horrmann, Charles
Horrmann, William
Horton, James M.
Houghton, Arthur A.
Howe, Wirt

Hubbard, Thomas H.

122

Hudson, Mrs. Alice P.
Humason, Mrs. V. P.
Huntington, Mrs. C. P.
Hupfel, J. C. G.
Hutchins, Aug. S.
Hutchins, William E.

Ibert, Frank

Ingersoll, Miss Maud
Ingersoll, Mrs. Robert G.
lsaacs, David

Isaacs, Gabriel

Iselin, C. Oliver

lselin, Miss G.

Ives, Wm. Jay

 

J

Jackson, B. A.

Jackson, Miss Georgina

Jackson, Theo. F.

Jackson, F. W.

Jahn, Wm.

Jennewein, Valentine

Jesup, Charles M.

Jevons, Thomas E.

JeX, Miss Emily D.

JeX, Mrs. Josiah

Johnson, F. Coit

Johnson, Joseph

Johnson, Dr. S. K.

Johnson, Miss Truxton

Johnston. Mrs. Mary

Jones, Miss Annette L.

Jones, Miss Eleanor M.

Jones, Floyd-, Mrs.
Stanton

Jones, Frank

Jones, Mrs. Cadwalader

Jones, Miss Julia I.

Jurgens, W. B. A.

 

Geo.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

A
Acker, Merrall & Condit.. $20
Ackerman, E. B .......... 50
Alexander, J. Henry. .. .. . 5
Anderson, Mrs. A. A ..... 100
Anonymous .............. 5
Anonymous . . . .. . 5
Anonymous .. . . .. . 1
Anonymous.............. 1
Anonymous . . . .. .. .. .5000
Anonymous . . . . . .. . 5
Archbold,Johi1 D ........ 25
A1nold, Constable & Co.. 5
Ashforth, Mrs. Freda ..... 10
B

Bacon, J. M.. & Co. .. .. .. IO
Ballin, Oscar E .......... 20
Bardwell, W. A .......... 2
Bates, Mrs. A. F ......... 2
Beach, Captain. . . . . . .. . .. IO
Beers, B. F .............. 35
Benedict, Miss Louise. .. . 20
Benjamin, Mrs. W. F... . . . 10
Berlin H. C............. 10
Berthele, J. G ............ I
Billings Miss M. NI. 25
Bishop, M15. IIeher R... . IO
Blackwell, Miss F. W. . .. 1
Blair & Co ............... 25
Borden’s Condensed Milk

Co. .................... 2o
Bossert. Louis. 5
Bostwicl<,Albe1t C ....... 50
Bostwick, M1s. Jahez A. 100
Bostwick. W. T.. I11

Memory of Prince and

wa’ 5

DONATIONS RECEIVED DURING
YEAR

00
OO
00
00
OO
00
OO
00
OO
00
OO
00
00

00
OO
00
00
OO
00
00

OO
00
OO
00
OO
00

00
00
OO
00

00

1900.
Braidich, A. F. .$5O
Bieese, Miss EIoimse L. ... 10
Brett, Miss Car1ie ........ 4
Bristol, John I. D. .. ..... 5
Brooklyn Humane Asso—
ciation ................. 35
Brotheridge, H. J... .. .. . 26
Brown, J. B .............. 5
Brown & Seccon1b.. .. .. . 10
Bunce, Johi1.. .. 3
Burgei & Howei B1ewi110
Co. . . 10
Butler, Mrs. The1o11 R 10
Butts, I\I1s. L. A., I11
Memory of W. H.
Butts” ................ 5
C
Calhoun, Henry NV. . .. . . . I5
Cammann, Miss I. M.. 15
Carll, Miss C. J. . . .. 5
Carnochan, G. M. .. .. .. .. 5
Carscallen, Mrs. J. D.. .. 8
Cary. Miss Ellen G. ...... 51
Castree. Miss Louise ..... 10
“Cash”................. 103
“ Cash” ................. 5
“ Cash ’" ................. 50
Cash” ................. 15
Cathcart NIiss J R. . . 5o
Chambeilain Mis M. II. . 2
Chisholm W. F. 50
Chrome Steel Wéiké.. 5
Cl11ystie W. F. .. 25
Claik Miss Ella Mahmel .. 5
Coch1a11. W. Bourke ..... 10
Collins, The Misses. . . . 15
Collins, Miss Gertrude. . . . 192

 
    
 
   
     
   
   
    

00
OO
00

45

00
00
OO

00
00

OO

00
OO
00
00
OO
00
00
I O
00
00
OO
00
00
00
00
OO
00
00
00

4o

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

MAINE.
Portland
Bangor .
Waterville
Lewiston

MARYLAND.
Baltimore

l\'IASSACIIUSE'1‘TS.
Boston
Taunton
Lowell .

MICHIGAN.
Detroit .
Grand Rapids
Kalamazoo

MINNESOTA.

St. Paul.

Minneapolis .

Duluth
St. Paul .
Owatonna .
Winona .
St. Cloud
Red Wing .
Rochester
Stillwater
MISSISSIPPI.
Natchez .
MISSOURI.
St. Louis
St. Louis
Kansas City
St. Joseph .
Sedaha

 

Maine State S. P. C. A. . .
The Bangor Humane Society
Waterville S. P. C. A. . .
Lewiston and Auburn S. P. C. A. .

The Maryland S. P. C. A. . .
The Massachusetts S. P. C. A.

Taunton Humane Society .
The Lowell Humane Society

Michigan S. P. C. A. . .
Kent County Humane Society .
Kalamazoo Humane Society.

Minnesota S. P. C. . . . .
Minneapolis Humane Society
Duluth Humane Society . .
St. Paul S. P. C. . . .
Steele County Humane Society.
The Winona Humane Society .
St. Cloud Humane Society .
Red Wing Humane Society .
Rochester Humane Society
Stillwater Humane Society

The Mississippi S. P. C. A.

Humane Society of Missouri . .
Woman’s Humane Society of Missouri .
The Humane Society of Kansas City

The Humane Society of St. Joseph* .
The Humane Society of Sedalia, Missouri .

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




    

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

I46

4. The periodical delivery of discourses from the pulpit.

5. The employment of constables in the markets and streets; and

6. The prosecution of persons guilty of ﬂagrant acts of cruelty, with
publicity to the proceedings, and announcement of results.

“Steadily working by the above means, bravely bearing
contumely and overcoming difﬁculties, the founders became
stronger year after year: subscribers and co-workers gradually
joined their ranks; and a marked improvement slowly mani-
fested itself in the treatment of animals. Then followed the
distinguished patronage of Her Most Gracious Majesty the
Queen, Her Royal Highness the late Duchess of Kent, the
Nobility, and many distinguished Members of both Houses
of Parliament; and in 1840, by command of Her Majesty, the
Society was honored with the preﬁx of ‘ Royal.’ Since that
period its progress has been regular, and its achievements en-
couraging, and now it is regarded as a permanently estab-
lished institution, which has outlived ridicule, and secured for
its founders the esteem of good and practical men of this
and succeeding generations.

“ During many years the committee advocated the removal
and enlargement of Smithﬁeld Market. Owing to its agency,
bull—baiting, bull—running, cock—ﬁghting, badger-baiting, and
other wicked sports of a barbarous age have been prohibited
by legal enactments. In 1835 the Society obtained an amend—
ment of Martin’s 'Act; in 1845 an amendment of the law for
regulating Knackers’ Yards; in 1849 a new and much 'im-
proved Act for the more effectual Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals; and in 1854 an Act prohibiting the use of dogs as
beasts of draft or burden throughout England; and recently
many other Acts of Parliament.”

The ﬁrst society organized in America for theprotection
of animals was The American Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, its founder and ﬁrst president being the
late Henry Bergh, to Whose noble self-sacriﬁces and untiring
energies the cause of animal protection in this country owes.

 




 

   
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
  
  
 
    

147

its origin. The history of the Society,-therefore, is practically
an account of the inception and development of the work of
animal protection in America.

In 1862 Mr. Bergh was appointed Secretary of Legation at
St. Petersburg. While in Russia he found himself on several
occasions constrained to interfere in cases of atrocious cruelty,
and but for his ofﬁcial position he 'would have been exposed to
personal violence. His attention was thus directed to the sub-
ject of humanity to the brute creation, and while in London
on his way home in 1865, he made the acquaintance of
John Colam, Esq., Secretary of the Royal Society forvthe
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, who gave him much
valuable information concerning the operations of that Society
in England. On Mr. Bergh’s arrival at home, he found that
no similar society existed in this country, and he immediately
devoted himself to the establishment of a society for the
United States. At the outset the proposition met with little
encouragement, and, without the assistance of the press, it
might probably have failed. On February 8, I866, Mr. Bergh
delivered a lecture in Clinton Hall, in which he pleaded his
cause with such force of argument and such warmth of elo-
quent conviCtion, that expressions of sympathy and offers of
assistance were freely made by persons in attendance. The
press then lent its powerful aid; the lecture was published in
whole or in part in all the great cities of the country; public
sentiment in favor of Mr. Bergh’s movement was quickly
aroused, and on April 10, I866, “ The American Society for
the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals ” was incorporated by
the Legislature of the State of New York. Among the orig-
inal charter members of the Society° were many of the most
eminent citizens of the City and State of New York.

On the 19th of April, in the same year, Mr. Bergh secured
the passage by the Legislature of New York of the ﬁrst law
ever enacted in this country for the protection of animals. It
provided that “ every person who shall, by his act or neglect,
maliciously kill, maim, wound, injure, torture, or‘cruelly beat

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

148

any horse, mule, cow,c c,attle sheep, or other animal, belonging
to himself or another, shall, upon conviction, be adjudged
guilty of a misdemeanor.’

. On the 22d of April a meeting was held in Clinton Hall for
the purpose of effecting a permanent organization, and at that
’ meeting the ﬁrst society for the protection of animals in this
cOuntry came into active existence. The purpose of the as—
sociation, as set forth in its constitution, was “to provide ef—
fective means for the prevention of cruelty to animals through—
out the United States, to enforce all laws which then were or
might thereafter be enacted for the protection of animals, and
to secure, by lawful means, the arrest and conviction of all
persons found violating such laws.” As a matter of fact, the
only law of that kind then to be found on the statute books of
the States of the Union was that which had been passed by
the Legislature of New York nine days after the incorporation
of the Society. Within twelve months, however, another “ act
for the more effectual prevention of cruelty to animals ” was
passed by the Legislature of the same State; and from time to
time additions have been made to it, so that there is now
hardly a phase of cruelty which the Society has not the legal
power to prevent within the boundaries of the State of New
York.‘ The legal deﬁnition of the word “animal” now in-
cludes every living creature except members of the human
race, and the words “ torture ” and “ cruelty ” include every
act, omission, or neglect whereby unjustiﬁable physical pain,
suffering, or death is caused or permitted.

ORGANIZATION OF OTl‘IER SOCIETIES—PROGRESS or THE
WORK.

The organization and inﬂuence of The American Society
soon led to the establishment of local societies in all parts of
the Union and in other countries on the American Continent
and elsewhere. The number of local societies incorporated

 

 




 

 

149

in the United States is now 222, and in other American nations
21 societies have been established and incorporated since 1866,
making a total of 243.

The prevention of cruelty to animals has been the beginning
of many other humane organizations. Thus, in 1874, the So-
ciety appeared as prosecutor in a case of cruelty to children,
and it then appeared to be advisable to organize a separate
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children. This
was done in 1875, under the Presidency of Mr. John D.
Wright; Mr. Henry Bergh becoming Vice—President of the-
new society, the ﬁrst of its kind in the world, which has done
so much and such effectively good work in the last twenty—six
years. '

The establishment of these and other organizations has rep-
resented an increased interest in humane work which has
found a practical expression in the legislation of nearly every
State in the Union. At this date there is not a single State in
which cruelty of any kind is not forbidden by the law, under
stringent penalties for disobedience. Some defects continue
to exist, of course ; but, speaking broadly, it may be said that
the laws on this subject are good. What is now required is
that the great mass of the people shall be educated into sym—
pathy with the humanity of the law. That is now the greatest
work of the Society, and it has constant reason to be grateful
for the assistance and encouragement which it receives from
the press, the pulpit, and the judges of the courts.

The abuses growing out ‘of the then prevailing systems of
dog catching and impounding having become so ﬂagrant as
to demand immediate checking, a bill, entitled “ An Act for
the better protection of lost and strayed animals, and for
securing the rights of the owners thereof,” was prepared by
the President of the Society and introduced into the Legisla—
ture of 1894, providing for the abolishment of the city dog
pound, and empowering the Society to carry out the provisions
of the act. This bill became a law on March 8, 1894 (Chap. I 15,
Laws 1894), and the Society immediately thereupon com-

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ISO

menced the erection of a Shelter for Animals at 102d Street
‘ and East River, provided with every accommodation for the
care of animals and their humane destruction.

In rescuing the community from the reign of the old dog
catchers, the Society earned the gratitude of the dog owners
of New York, and in 1895, at the request of the Mayor of
Brooklyn, the law was amended (Chap. 412, Laws 1895) so as
‘ to include that city as well. A Shelter was then established in
that city, at the corner of Malbone Street and Nostrand Avenue,
and when Staten Island became a part of the greater City of
New York, a Shelter was also opened on Wave Street, Staple-
ton, Borough of Richmond.

Much suffering has thus been spared the vagrant, lost, and
abandoned dogs and cats of the city. Unwanted animals are
no longer thrown into the streets, to suffer and die of expo-
sure and starvation, but are given into the care of the Society
and by it mercifully destroyed or placed in good homes.

Through the generosity of kind-hearted people interested in
the work of animal protection, the Society was enabled, in
1896-97, to rear a commodious ﬁreproof building as its perma-
nent Headquarters, adequate to the increased needs of the So-
ciety, andsupplied with every facility for carrying on the work
to the best advantage. ‘

Meanwhile the practical work is not neglected. The ofﬁcers
of the Society are clothed with ample police powers. They
wear a distinctive uniform and patrol the streets by day and
by night. They have full power to arrest and prosecute offend-
ers against the laws relating to animals. In addition to the
uniformed police, the Society has nearly two hundred special
agents in different parts of the State, clothed with the same
authority and engaged in enforcing the laws for the prevention
of cruelty. In, the Boroughs of Manhattan and Brooklyn the
Society has ambulances for the removal of injured, sick, and
disabled animals; appliances for the rescue of drowning ani-
mals and animals which have fallen into excavations: and a
patrol wagon which carries with it the necessary apparatus

 

 




 

 

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
    

151

and medicines for rendering aid to injured animals in the
streets.

In addition to its permanent headquarters, Madison Avenue
and 26th Street, and the Shelters above mentioned, the Society
maintains an ambulance house at 1 I I and I 13 East 22d Street,
New York, and an ofﬁce at 13 Willoughby Street, and an
ambulance house at 114 Lawrence Street, Brooklyn. In the
greater City of New York it maintains a uniformed force of
twenty salaried Special Agents, and 111 other parts of the State
of New York it has 180 volunteer agents.

In the prosecution of its work, the Society has in constant
use three large ambulances for the removal of disabled ani—
mals, and eight smaller ambulances and a bicycle carrier espe-
cially constructed for the removal of sick, injured, and home—
less small animals. Twenty horses and a large corps of men
are employed 111 this service.

The ofﬁcial organ of the Society is OUR ANIMAL FRIENDS,
a monthly magazine which is devoted to the cause of human—

it} to all living creatures, and which has an extensive and
growing circulation.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

AN APPEAL.

An erroneous idea is entertained by many that this Society ~
is beyond the necessity for further appeals to our benevolent
and generous-hearted people for aid. It receives no appropri-
ations from the city or State, and is dependent upon voluntary
subscriptions, donations, and bequests. The usefulness of the
organization could be largely increased, and the ﬁeld of its
labors greatly extended, if it had a more adequate pecuniary
support. As all know, the objects of the Society are to enforce
the humane laws, to investigate complaints, to care for lost or
abandoned animals, or to destroy them mercifully, to suppress
cruel beating, overloading, and over—driving, and to protect
and assist sick, maimed, and starving animals.

Another prominent object of the‘Society is the distribution
of humane literature, out of which shall grow not only the kind
treatment of animals, but the higher elevation of our own race.
It may be desirable to state in this connection that during the
past year the Society has published and distributed many
millions of pages of printed matter in the interest of humanity
to animals, and we have had ample reason to know that the
effect has been fully as great as could have been reasonably
hoped for this purpose; and to these ends we earnestly invite
your pecuniary assistance. ,

The library. of the Society contains many valuablebooks
relating to the brute creation. Contributions of works treating
of animal life are urgently requested. The library is of great
importance and value to the Society in aiding it to carry on the
educational feature which now so largely enters into the work
of animal protection.

Contributions to the Society will be acknowledged in the
annual report.

 

 




 

PUBLICATIONS.

In addition to the monthly magazine of the Society, OUR
ANIMAL FRIENDS, and the manual, “ Kindness to Animals,”
referred to in another part of this report, the Society publishes
a number of leaﬂets, among which the following may be men—
ﬁoned:

No. I.—“ Ten Rules for the Treatment of Animals.” Gives
valuable hints in regard to the treatment conducive to the good
health and happiness of animals.

No. 2.—“ What is Docking?” Points out the absurdities
of the practice, and cites the opinions of the best authorities
proving the cruelty of the operation.

No. 3.——“ Fashion’s Cruelty and Bird Protection.” An able
plea by J. A. Allen, Ph.D., for the preservation of bird life,
now so wantonly and cruelly sacriﬁced in the interest of vain
fashion.

No. 4.——“ The Dishorning of Cattle an Act of Cruelty.” The
cruelty and fallacy of dishorning graphically set forth in a
re’sume’ of the famous English dishorning case. -

No. 5.———“ Hints for the Dog Days.” Dispels the many ig—
norant and false ideas in regard to rabies and hydrophobia,
and gives valuable information concerning the dog, its ner-
vous disorders, and its care.

No. 6.——“ Rabies and Hydrophobia.” Gives the opinions of
medical men on these diseases, and refers to the Pasteur treat-
ment and the Buisson cure by vapor baths.

These leaﬂets are intended for gratuitous distribution, and
will be forwarded to any address on receipt of postage, as fol—

 

 

 




154

lows, per packet of 100: N o. I, six cents; No. 2, ten cents; Nos.
3 and 4, twenty-ﬁve cents; No. 5, ten cents, and No. 6, forty
cents.

Title XVI of the Penal Code, relating to cruelty to animals,
is also published by the Society in pamphlet form, and a copy
will be forwarded to any one interested in the work.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

HOW’TO PROCEED AGAINST
OFFENDERS.

There are two modes of proceeding, viz.: I. By giving the
offender into the custody of a policeman, constable, or other
ofﬁcer. II. By the apprehension of the accused under a
warrant.

1.

BY GIVING THE OFFENDER INTO THE CUSTODY OF AN OFFICER
AUTHORIZED To MAKE ARRESTs.

When you personally witness an act of cruelty, call the atten-
tion of an ofﬁcer to the nature of the offense, insist on the arrest
of the offender; if you cannot accompany the accused to the
magistrate, then give your name and address to the ofﬁcer as a
witness, and be sure to take his number, name, and precinct,
in order that you may compel attention to the case. The law
requires the police throughout this State to aid in the protec—
tion of dumb animals from injury and abuse; and should any
ofﬁcer refuse his assistance—which is not likely to occur——
then take the number on his hat or shield, and report the same
to the Society.

II.
BY THE ARREST OF THE ACCUSED UNDER WARRANT.

When you do not personally see the act of cruelty, or when
you can not procure an ofﬁcer on the spot, or if the ofﬁcer

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

156

refuses to act, then obtain the name and address of the offender,
and that painted on the vehicle, if any, and the names and resi—
dences of those who witnessed the act, and lay the facts before
a magistrate.

IN ALL CASES

Make a note of the time when, and the street or place where,
the offense occurred, and also the names and residences of all
persons present and of any others who may be called as wit—
nesses. If the offense was that of driving a horse or other
animal with galled neck or shoulders, or other wounds, note
the size and location of such wounds—especially if raw, dis-
charging, or in contact with the harness. If the offense was
ﬂogging or beating, note the instrument, the number of blows,
on what part of the body inﬂicted, and the effect, if any, on the
skin of the animal; if'overloading, carefully observe the symp—
toms of distress, such as the trembling, falling, unusual perspi—
ration, or exhaustion. Report all cases of mutilation, such as
docking tails of horses, cutting tails or ears of dogs, or any
Other torture ; also cases of cruelty in the transporting of sheep,
calves, game, fowls, or other poultry, or animals, while bound
by the legs or otherwise, in any part of this State, either on land
or water. In every instance observe minutely and take down
in writing the facts and details, and also the language of the
offender at the time.

FINALLY.

Complaints or inquiries made to the Society at its head—
quarters, by night or by day, will receive prompt attention; and
ALL ARRESTS FOR CRUELTY SHOULD BE PROMPTLY REPORTED
THERE, TO INSURE A PROPER PROSECUTION OF THE CASE.

 




 

 

STEEL GAS TANK FOR THE HUMANE
DESTRUCTION OF SMALL ANIMALS.

See Illustrations, pages 65 and 66.,

The dimensions of this tank are as follows: length, ten feet;
width, ﬁve feet; and height, four feet six inches. A trap—door
is provided through which the animals are put into the tank,
and four heavy plate—glass Windows light the interior. Ordinary
illuminating gas is admitted through an inch and one—quarter
pipe, and when the tank is to be emptied escapes through a
six—inch pipe. As shown by the illustration on page 66, a
truck or cage rests on the bottom of the tank on tracks, the
latter Withdrawing from the tank so that the cage can be moved
outside to facilitate the handling of the bodies of dead animals.

The method of destroying small animals by illuminating
gas was adopted by the Society after a thorough investigation
of other known methods, and is to be recommended from hu-
mane and sanitary standpoints. Illuminating gas produces
anaesthesia or insensibility, and death follows almost instan—
taneously and is absolutely painless. Charcoal fumes cause
asphyxia or suffocation, and the use of charcoal is not recom-
mended for that reason.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

To Mose wko may feel a’z’sﬂosea’ to donate 5y WILL z‘o
Me oenevolem oo/eets of 2722's Society, i/ze following

is saomz'z‘fea’ as a form .-

17on of Bequest of Personal Properly.

I give and bequeath unto “The American Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals,” a corporation created by
and existing under the laws of the State of New York, the sum
of ...................................................... dollars, to be applied to
the uses of said corporation.

Form of Devz’se of Real Property.

I give and devise unto “The American Society for the Pre-
vention of Cruelty to Animals,” a corporation created by and
existing under the laws of the State of New York, all [here insert
description of property], together with all the appurtenances,
tenements, and hereditaments thereunto belonging or in any Wise
appertaining, to have and to hold the same unto the said cor-
poration, its successors and assigns, forever.

 




. -1..- ( xA-khna u

-
I..--.-..--..-U.-.----.---.
"""""""""""" ‘35""-"""""U'OO-O-IO-0-on-oo-nllo'l-lnlllolln-on-nu-n-nanun-nannnunn-nnnnan.

DONATION BLANK.

.................................................. I90

To JOHN P. HAINES, President,
The American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals,
Madison Avenue and 26th Street, New York.

Sir :

Enclosed please find my check for $ .................................. , a donation to the general funds
of the Society.

Name ................................................. . ..........................................................................

Address ............................... _ ......................................................................................

This subscription carries with it no obligation for subsequent years.
Donations will be acknowledged in the Annual Report.

 

 

 




 

 

MEMBERSHIP IN THE SOCIETY.

Attention is again called to the fact that this Society receives no funds from the public treasury, its
revenues being derived mainly from members’ dues, voluntary donations and bequests. The scope of
the work could be greatly extended if the Society had a larger ﬁxed income such as is derived from mem-
bership dues and interest on permanent funds. An urgent appeal is therefore made for new members,
and those who are already identiﬁed with the cause of animal protection in this way are earnestly re-
quested to interest their friends in the work with a View to having them become members of the Society.

The laws of the State of New York provide as follows : “2726 police force of Mo Cz'ly of New York,
as 72!ch as of all oz‘lzcr ﬁlaccs rel/core police orggram'zaz‘z'oas cxz’sz‘, s/rall, as occasz’oa may require, az'o’ llzc Socz'cz‘y,
z'z‘s IVE/WEEKS, or agents, 2'12 z‘lzc caforccmoﬂt of all laws w/zz'c/z are 72ow, or may acrcafz‘or lie, maclca’ for
#26 frolccz‘z'on of dam!) animals." .

.O...’..-..¢~.-0.-3-.-..IIICCDCDDIICIIind-unuinca.3. nnnnnnnnn nuoacual—Ualbaaﬂaaabhay-aoaaaa-aaaaaaﬂ.IBICDEaHbDBi—aba-DEBUBEICEID-‘huuﬂll-lil5-D

To JOHN P. HAINES, President.
Sir: .

Please add the following names to the roll of members of The American Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals :

NAME ADDRESS

..........................................................................................................

(If proposed by a member, please Sign here) _________________________________________________________________________________________________
Annual Membership, $5. Life Membership, $100.

Members receive all publications of the Society gratuitously.

 

 

 

 




