 

 

 

 

LONDON JOINT ANIMAL FLAG DAY

TUESDAY,

 

24' MAY

PLEASE HELP
By Collecting in London
— if only for

an Hour or Two!

Oﬂers of help, please, to:—

Chief Secretary, RSPCA, 105 Jermyn Street, London, SW1

 

 

COLLECTIONS

(We give, wherever possible, the place at which the collection was
made and the name of the organizer or organizers.)

House to House

Southport, Miss Richards, branch hon sec, £75 15. 3d.;
Huddersﬁeld, Mr Stanley G. Watson, branch hon sec,
£376 65. 9d.; Leamington, Miss D. Lake, branch hon sec,
£124 165. 1d.; Ardingley, Mr A. l. Hett, aux hon sec,
£12 85. 4d.; Barnham, Sussex, Mrs Court, aux hon sec,
£3 105.; Chalfont St Giles, Mrs Barlow, aux hon sec, £13;
Bearpark and Ushaw Moor, Mrs Dixon, aux hon sec,
£21 12s. 3d.; Durham, S. and N. Yorks, Miss Barr, branch
hon sec, £19 195. 4d; Pitsford, Northampton, Mrs Mews,
£7 45.; Newark, Mrs Aldred, £1 35. 4d.; Denton, l\4iss
Wareing, aux hon sec, £4 25. 6d.; Methwold, Mrs Vincent,
£6 95. Oédg Dartford, Mrs Ransom, aux hon sec, £135 75.;
Leeds, Mrs Harvey, branch hon sec, £2 85. 1d.; Formby,
Mrs Bourhill, aux hon sec, £24 75. 2d.; Essex—Colchester
Branch, Dr Estcourt—Oswald, branch hon sec, £81 175. 3d.;
”Hams—Winchester Branch, Mrs Lombard Hobson, branch
hon sec, £163 05. 1d.; Dorking, Mrs Souter, aux hon sec,
£72 85. 1161.; Kent—lvlid and Maidstone Branch, Mrs
Simmonds, branch hon sec, £91 55. 11d.

Flag Days

Shefﬁeld (correction), Mrs Collier, branch hon sec,
7€1,010 65. 11d.; Gloucester City, Mrs M. V. Nash, branch
hon sec., £300 105. 9d.; Bromsgrove, Mrs LazenbY, aux hon
36C, £152 85. 761.; Trevor and Garth, Miss S. Morris, aux
hon sec, £12; Oundle, Mrs M. L. Lee, £26 135. 9d.; Lammas
and District, Miss P. Williamson, aux hon sec, approx. £16;
Arnold, Notts, £26 35. 8d.; Looe, Mrs Caunter, aux hon
sec, £70; Camelford and District, Miss]. M. Roose, aux
hon sec, £13 45.; Tenterden, Mrs Pettit, aux hon sec,
£47 53~§ Usk, Mrs Probert, co aux hon sec, £7 105.; Leices’
ter, Miss B. H. Hearth, branch sec, £637 05. 2d.

London Stores

West London Branch. At Messrs SWAN & EDGAR, Picca—
diHY Circus, arranged by Mrs Goodall and Mrs Vaccaro,
£13 175. 8d. Mrs Goodall and Mrs Vaccaro made a onevday
collection at Messrs LILLEY & SKINNER, Oxford Street; £4 45.
collected.

Streatham, Brixton and Clapham Branch. Organized by
Mrs John at BON MARCHE of Brixton, £7 125. 5d.

Large Begging Dog Boxes

Bideford. Miss Capper, aux hon sec, reports £5 195.

collected outside Lewis’s Cafe at Westward H01; in ten
days £1 65. was collected on Bideford Quay.

Fowey. Mrs Guest, aux hon sec, says in ﬁve days
£15 175. 6d. was collected.

Minehead. Miss Archer, aux hon sec, says £47 115. 2d.
was collected during the summer season.

Rugeley. Mrs Hudson, aux hon sec, states £5 13s. 161. was
collected at Rugeley Show in August.

 

 

 

TEMPLE COX CAPTIVE
IOLT SLAUGHTERING
GUNS

Specially recommended and used by the RSPCA

THREE MODELS—ALL SILENT IN
ACTION

‘UNIVERSAL’ for all animals
‘SMALLS’ for all small animals
‘MARK’ 6’ for all animals. Designed for heavy

use in large Abattoirs and Freezing Works

 

TEMPLE COX DEVELOPMENT CO. LTD
HIGH STREET, BROMLEY, KENT

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

January 1955

THEANIMALWORLD 11

 

 

in St Cuthbert’s Church Vestry, Carlisle, were Lt-Col
Levin, branch hon secretary, and Mr P. G. Monkhouse,
branch hon treasurer.
Devon—North Mrs M. du Sautoy Newby, Ilfracombe
auxiliary hon sec, reports that an American tea raised
£6 85. for branch funds.

The Vicar of llfracombe arranged a concert.

Lady Williams presented Mr Terry Dunn with an RSPCA
medal for his rescue of a spaniel from the sea.

 

v *3
Photo by courtesy of the Bath and Wilts Chronicle and Herald

Lined up for one of the competitions in the Wiltshire North
Branch Gymkhana at Chippenham.

Dorset North Mrs Baker, West Moors auxiliary hon

secretary, and committee, organized a whist drive at the

Village Hall, West Moors, and raised £60 for branch funds.
* .

Mr Hugh D. Ricketts, branch hon secretary, presented
the RSPCA framed Certiﬁcate of Merit to Station Oﬂicer
F. G. Clarke of the Blandford Fire Brigade, who rescued a
kitten from a well.

Ealing and District Mrs H. Moss, Isleworth auxiliary hon
ts‘ec,dorganized a jumble sale and raised £35 Ss. for branch
un s. '
Essex—South-West Miss Doris Martin organised a con-
cert, given by The Future Starlets, at the East Ham Town
Hall and £40 13s. 6d. was given to branch funds. Mrs
Hurrell, East Ham auxiliary hon secretary raised £5 by
organizing a competition. Among the many branch and
auxiliary members present were Mrs Hoddell, branch hon
secretary, and Miss Beken. Mr C. R. Davies, branch
organizer, addressed the audience and Senior Inspector
Davenport presented a bouquet to Miss Martin on behalf
of the Branch. '

‘k

A sale held in the home of Miss Beken raised £130 for the
branch clinic. Mrs Hoddell, branch hon secretary, helped
in the organization. .
Gloucester City and District and Forest of Dean Mrs M. V.
Nash, Branch hon secretary, reports that the branch’s
Entertainments Committee, under the chairmanship of .Mr
A. J. Allchurch, organized a dance at the Royal William
Hotel, Cranham, raised £27 for branch funds.
Gloucester——Mid Lady Lister Opened a bazaar in Stroud
Where over £100 was raised for branch funds. Among the
stall-holders was Mrs Desborough Walford, Counc1l
Member. Mrs Porri, branch hon secretary, says that
the credit for this function goes to Mr S. Hill, branch
chairman, and his committee.

Halifax Mr C. S. Horner, branch hon sec, reports that a
iQnedday autumn market raised £355 14s. 5%(1. for branch
un s.

Hampshire—Southampton and District The branch Christ-
mas Fayre was organized by Mr E. F. Symonds, branch
Chairman, Mrs Symonds and Mrs Moody, branch hon
secretary. Over £45 was raised for branch funds.

Highgate, Muswell Hill and Crouch End Mrs Malcolm
Organized a bring-and-buy sale at her home and ralsed £60
or branch funds.

    

Hull and East Riding Mrs Heath organized a whist drive’
with the help of Warrant Ofﬁcer E. J. Knights, at Mona
House, Sutton-upon—Hull and raised £10 45. 3d. for branch
funds. ,

Isle of Wight The annual Animal Sunday service was held
at the Northwood Parish Church. The service was arranged
by the Rector (the RevH. E. Strudwick, branch committee
member). A collection of £8 8s. was given to the branch.
Other churches in the Isle of Wight held animal services,
the one at Freshwater being attended by Mrs Jesty, branch
hon secretary.

Kent—Canterbury and District Inspector Rhodes addressed
the Canterbury Special Constables on the work of the
RSPCA.

Kent—Dover and District Mrs Allen organized a sock-and-
apron show and raised £17 105. 6d. for branch funds. Mr R.
Warner, Mrs Bond and the Dover Engineering Works
Social Welfare Concert Party helped to make this an en-
joyable evening.

Kent—Mid, Maidstone and District Mrs Simmonds:
branch hon secretary, organized a Christmas bazaar in
Maidstone and raised £70 for branch funds.

Kent—West A plaque to the memory of Miss Florence
Newitt, a collector, was unveiled by Senior Inspector Smith
in Chipstead pavilion. .
Llangollen, Chirk and Glynceiriog and District Division Mrs
Gilbert, Division hon treasurer, reports that Mrs May,
Mrs Baynes, Pontfadog auxiliary co hon secretaries, and Miss
G. Pickering, branch hon secretary, organized a whist drive
and raised £10 lls. 6d. for branch funds.

Macclesﬁeld, South-East Cheshire and Buxton A whist
drive organized by the branch in Broken Cross School
raised £20 for branch funds. Mrs Beresford presented the
prizes.

 

The RSPCA caravan at Wokingham. In the picture, left to
right, are: Mrs Brimblecombe (aux hon sec), her brother-
in-Iaw the Mayor, Mr Brimblecombe; Miss Wadland,
Reading Branch sec, with Susan; Mrs lvyford; inspector
jenkins

Merthyr Tydﬁl and District At the branch annual meeting
the Rev Prebendary L. J. B. Snell, Council Member, spoke
about myxomatosis as well as touching on the general work
of the RSPCA. The meeting was held at the Peter Pan Cafe,
Merthyr T ydﬁl, and among those present were the Mayor
(Councillor M. Osborne), Mayoress (Mrs Osborne), Canon
A. Lloyd Jones (branch president), Mrs Snell, Miss Geral-
dine Lewis and Mrs E. C. Vaughan (joint hon secretaries).
The Mayor presided, and a report submitted by. Inspector
Watts showed that seventy-eight complaints had been in-
vestigated. Mr W. P. Williams, honorary auditor, submitted
the accounts and said there was a balance of £41. A pre-
sentation book as a reward for rescuing a trapped ewe was

 




 

 

 

January 1955

PESTS ACT

 

The rabbit in a gin suffers agonies

Hopes that the Pests Bill would bring a speedy
end to the use of the steel’tooth trap faded in
November with its passage on to the Statute
Book.

A nationvwide campaign was organized by the
RSPCA against Clause 8, which postponed the
possibility of abolishing this cruel trap until 1958
at the earliest. The Government was adamant.
During the debate in Parliament, many Members
spoke in support of the RSPCA’s Views, but an
amendment which would have had the effect of
bringing forward the abolition date was defeated
by twenty’two votes.

Whilst the humane cause received a setback on
the gin trap, a great victory was gained in the
struggle to make illegal the deliberate spreading of
myxomatosis. At ﬁrst, the Government would not
agree to an amendment on this subject, but an
outcry by Members on both sides of the House
brought about a change of view. As a result, this
Act makes the deliberate spreading of myxomaa
tosis an offence. Anyone found guilty is liable to
a maximum ﬁne of £20 for the first offence and
£50 for a subsequent offence.

Cheers greeted the Government announce—
ment that the amendment forbidding the
deliberate spreading of myxomatosis had been
accepted.

Ministry’s Statement

Under the title ‘Pests Act’, the Ministry of
Agriculture has supplied information on this
Act, which is described as providing for the
‘more effective control of wild rabbits and for
ending the use of gin traps after July 31, 1958.’
Under Part I of the Act, says the Ministry
statement, rabbit clearance areas may be set up
in which it will be the duty of occupiers to keep
their land free from rabbits. The areas will be
selected by County Agricultural Executive Com,
mittees, in consultation with representatives of
farmers, landowners, forestry interests and agri’
cultural workers. Notice of a proposal to make
a clearance order will be given to persons in—
terested and time will be allowed for objections

to be lodged.

TI—IEANIMALWORLD " 3

The occupier of land may use any legitimate
means of rabbit control.

There are penalties for failure to comply with -
the requirements of a clearance order and Com;
mittees may enter and destroy rabbits if the occu—
pier defaults in his obligation.

Trapping

Part II of the Act deals with trapping. It will
be an offence to use a gin or other unauthorized
trap after July 31, 1958; and it is hoped that by then
the Humane Traps Advisory Committee will
have developed and arranged for the provision of
an adequate supply of effective humane traps.
Should this not materialize, the date may be post—
poned, with the approval of Parliament, for a
year at a time; but the Order must be laid at least
two years before the date it postpones. The date
can also be put forward a year if the Committee
ﬁnd they are ahead of schedule; but here at least
two years’ notice of the earlier date must be
given.

 

COVER PICTURE

A KNOWING LOOK

Dr Rattray, Council Member, who sends this
picture, writes:

Rex’s master and mistress before going on
holiday left him at kennels. The morning after
their arrival they got a telegram saying that Rex
had smashed his kennel and was uncontrollable
and Would they fetch him away. They got into
their car and went to the kennels and took him
with them. Rex knew what he was doing: by the
sea he had the time of his life!

 

QUESTIONS IN PARLIAMENT

In answer to a Question from Mr Peter Freeman
(RSPCA Council Member), Major Lloyd George
(Home Secretary) said that during 1953 there had
been six prosecutions for offences under the Pet Shops
Act. (This Act has to do with licensing and the
control generally of pet shops and the conditions
under which animals are kept inthem.)

 

The Inter—departmental Committee on Slaughtera
houses is at present preparing a siting plan for
England and Wales. This was said in answer to a
question from Mr T. W. Jones by the Minister of
Food who added that a report would be made in the
earlypart of 1955. (The bad siting of slaughter—
houses can be one of the causes of suffering to
animals; the RSPCA has long. campaigned for
improvements. )

 




\\\ \\‘ \\ ‘\\\‘ ‘

MEET!”

 

 

 

x ANIMAEHEWORLD

THE OFFICIAL MAGAZINE OF THE RSPCA

 

Vol L No I New Series

JANUARY I 955

PRICE THREEPENCE
4s. 6d. per annum. Post Paid

OVER 600 SOURCES OF POSSIBLE DISTRESS

 

This picture illustrates the bewildering crowds at a cattle market

Man’s wish for brilliant summer weather is
not shared by pigs. In open markets, it is not
unusual for these sensitive creatures to die
as a result of exposure to the sun. In all
conscience the past summer was mild enough,
yet even it brought to the RSPCA reports of
pigs dying as a result of this exposure.

Why, in such instances, has the RSPCA not
prosecuted? The Society has pursued the most
vigorous investigations into every incident and
the problem has always been either to identify

the person responsible or to prove unnecessary "

suffering (which must be proved before a person
can be convicted under the Protection of Animal
Act, 1911). It should be quite clearly understood
that in the eyes of the RSPCA, animal suffering
in innumerable cases could and shouldbe pre—
vented; failure to prevent it is morally if not
legally cruel.

Much has been done by regulations to ensure
that the animal’s journey to market shall be
accompanied with as little distress as possible
(though there is always more that can be done),
but there is no law to compel market authorities
to provide cover for their living ‘wares’.

For this. reason, every cattle market is a
regular possible source of distress. And in all,
there are about 620 places where cattle

markets are held:.at some of them only once
a month, at many once or twice a week, and
at some places every day of the working
week!

The pig has been singled out, but he is not the
only animal to suffer, nor is exposure the only
distress to which animals are subjected.

A list of some recent reforms introduced into
cattle markets as a result of pressure by RSPCA
Inspectors will show the problems faced by any
humane body seeking to remove some of the
sources of distress in cattle markets.

We shall not, in this article, name the markets
where improvements have been obtained: these
are places where the authorities have shown
readiness to adopt suggestions made by the
RSPCA. Here new pens have been installed for
fat stock and store cattle; there coVers have been
erected for poultry and all animals; here comfort;
able accommodation has been provided for
calves; there the number of persons allowed in
the cattle ring has been limited; here children
have been banned from the cattle market; there
loading ramps have been built. ‘

What are the results, in terms of spared
suffering, of these improvements? Ramps
mean that animals can make their way from
lorries in conﬁdence and not get a beating for
showing caution; sale rings free from crowds




 

January 195 5

THEANIMALWORLD 9

 

 

WILD ANIMALS-«Continued from opposite page

‘In fact, the stick and the whip are as
necessary as the reward of meat, the soft
voice and the caresses.’

This comes from page 61 of Wild Circus Ania
mals, by Alfred Court (published by the Burke
Publishing Co. Ltd. and available from all book,
sellers, price 155.), and we shall quote in this
review some examples of how the stick and the
whip were used.

The responsibility of the money—paying public
for the evils of this form of entertainment is
implied in more than one passage, such as this
(pages 20, 21):

‘To the crowds, I announced that the trainer
was facing one of the worst animals in creation,

a killer who had already done three trainers to

death.’

‘This was not true’, the author adds, but he
recognized in this piece of sensationalism the
type of advertising to draw the crowd. He knew
what the public wanted and told them that he
was giving them it. '

English Blame

The preceding quotation belongs to days in the
early part of the century and applies to perv
formances on the Continent. For this reason,
British readers might say: ‘Ah! We cannot be
blamed for the sufferings of wild circus animals.’

On the contrary, we in this country have
a special responsibility. ‘The Zoo—Circus’,
Alfred Court writes, page 93, ‘had not
reached the fourth pitch of its new Conti—
nental tour before an English impresario
came and offered me a twenty'two weeks
contract . . . at a ﬁgure I had never dreamed of
getting for a wild animal act. I signed an

engagement for the next season, for three
months with a single act in England would be
more proﬁtable than the work of the whole
circus for an entire season.’ '

Today as then, the Mecca of the Continental
wild animal trainer and exhibitor is the English
stage or circus.

Evidence

The value of this book as evidence in support of
the RSPCA’S campaign against the training and
exhibition of wild animals for entertainment
purposes is particularly high, since the author
has given up his work only recently, and, accord—
ing to the publishers’ blurb, printed on the cover,
Alfred Court is ‘the most famous animal trainer
in the world’. Despite the frank admissions made
by the writer in the book about his training
methods, the blurb can say of him: ‘ . in
Mexico he stumbled upon his real interest: a love
of the savage, majestic beasts from the . . . jungle’.
Mr Court had a strange way of showing his love.

Training Methods
There is never any evidence of cruelty coma

mitted for its own sake, but the RSPCA has
never supposed that there would be. The rough
handling practised by the author is in the way of
training, but as training is essential to the per—
formance, then this type of treatment can hardly
be divorced from wild—animal entertainment. As
the author himself expresses it (page 60):
‘When you begin training one or .more
animals in a cage, you never know, the first
time, what is going to happen. However, there
are only two hypotheses. If the animal
does not attack, the way of gentleness and

 

Long training went into this act. What pleasure can a civilized public find in such an exhibition?

 




January 1955

THEANIMALWORLD 7

 

 

 

THE OVERSEAS DEPARTMENT REPORTS

 

 

 

 

 

IT SPELLS KlNDNESS IN THREE LANGUAGES

Mrs W. H. Anker, hon sec of the Penang and Province
Wellesley Branch of the RSPCA, sends these pictures (left).
The Society’s name is in English on one side of the animal
ambulance and in Malay, Chinese and Tamil on the other.
The group of people standing beside the van are, from
left to right: The two RSPCA employees (one at the wheel
of the van), Mrs D. E. ]. Massey, Mr Tom Anthony and Mrs
Seagroatt (son and daughter of the late Mrs Liza Anthony),
Mrs Tom Anthony, Mrs D. )ones, Mr Wong Tet Poo (hon
treasurer), Mrs W. H. Anker (hon secretary), and Mr C.
Prosper Liston (Chairman). I I ' A

RSPCA NIGERIAN BRANCH

The British Council has granted a bursary to
Mr J. A. Adepoju of Ibadan, Nigeria, for the
purpose of receiving training at RSPCA Head:
quarters in the Work of animal protection.

Mr Adepoju has been connected with the
activities of the Nigerian Branch at Ibadan for
some time and as a result of his training in
London, which will occupy about three months,
will be qualiﬁed to extend the work at Ibadan.
This is the second occasion on which a Nigerian
has visited Headquarters to gain knowledge of

RSPCA work.

 

 

MOBILE INSPECTORS

The RSPCA Council has long realized the
special needs of animals, in rural and certain
urban areas. These animals are liable to suffer
by lacking access to facilities that exist in
thickly—populated areas.

As an experiment the RSPCA has appointed
mobile Inspectors to serve parts of Devon,
Cornwall and Wales. The appointments followed
a survey which showed that the chosen areas
were those needing this service.

Apart from augmenting the work of the local
officers, the mobile Inspectors will devote half
their time to visiting, at least once weekly, num—
erous ‘villages and hamlets for the purpose of
advising on the general care of animals and,
when necessary, giving emergency ﬁrst—aid pend,
ing veterinary attention, .or a humane death to
the unfortunate unwanted, or hopelessly sick or
injured animal.

The two officers appointed are Inspector
Ambrose who is stationed at Launceston and In;
Spector Blaylock at Abergavenny. Inspector
Ambrose covers parts of these Branches: Exeter,
East and West Devon, Devon North, Cornwall
EaSt, and Plymouth and South West Devon;
Inspector Blaylock covers parts of Brecon, Cara
marthen and Monmouth.

FISHERMEN WARNED

Complaints that countless birds on Thames«side
were being maimed and mutilated by Nylon
angling line caused RSPCA Headquarters to in
vestigate the matter. Senior Inspector Ruck
called on an oﬂicial of the Port of London Au-
thority at his Kew Bridge Office and raised with
him the question of the suffering caused to bird
life on and around the River Thames by anglers
using nylon ﬁshing line and being very careless
with it.

He pointed out that swans and pigeons were
the chief sufferers and cited cases of these birds
being found with lengths of nylon ﬁshing line
wrapped around their toes, legs and necks, whilst,
in some instances, they had swallowed hooks
and line. The Inspector mentioned that {some
pigeons, when treated at the Society’s Putney
Clinic, were found to have losttheir toes.

The Port‘ of London ' Authority’s official
adopted a most sympathetic attitude and, as a
result of the interview, warning'notices were to
be erected in the vicinities of Richmond'Bridge
and St Margarets railway bridge, urging anglers
to be more careful in their use of this type of
ﬁshing line. , -' l

 




corporatin eThe Winged Messenger’

 

VOLUME L No THREEPEN CE JANUARY 1955

[Mr M. J. Soper, Potters Bar
A KNOWING LOOK

(See story inside)

THE OFFICIAL ORGAN OF THE RSPCA

 




 

 

January 1955

 

THEANIMALWORLD . . 5

 

‘BELSEN’ STABLE FOR PONY

 

A stable in which a 75-year-old man kept a pony was
described in Bristol as an ‘animal Belsen’. The man was
ﬁned £5 with £2 25. costs, for causing cruelty to the animal
by omitting to give sufficient nourishing food and proper
care and attention. '

A solicitor said two RSPCA inspectors visited some aCCom-
modation at the back of a house where the defendant
rented a stable. One door of the stable would not open; the
other door would open only l8 inches. Cartons and boxes
piled up to the ceiling blocked the door.

The Chairman of the Bench told the defendant: ‘lf you
were a younger man, you would have to go to prison. In the
Circumstances we will only ﬁne you.’

(A.8l83: Inspectors McCready and Cox.)

MAXIMUM PENALTY FOR
CRUELTY TO DOG

A . labourer, charged before the Darlington
magistrates by the RSPCA with causing unneces—
sary suffering to a dog by unreasonably killing
it in an improper manner, was given the maximum
penalty permitted under the Protection of Ania
mals Act, 1911. He was sentenced to three months
imprisonment and was ﬁned £25, and was ordered
to pay £4 18s. costs.

On an application made by the RSPCA he was

. disqualiﬁed from holding a dog licence or from

owning a dog for twenty years.

He was said to have thrown the dying dog in
front of a woman bystander after he had held it
down in a bath containing ‘a very small amount
of water’. The case presented by the RSPCA was
that the dog had been run over accidentally by
a lorry, which had broken its leg. Ahousewife
living near saw the defendant grab the dog by
the scruff of the neck and thump it with his ﬁsts.

6: dog screamed. He then forced its head into
a small zinc bath and shouted for more water.

The dog, kicking its last, was thrown at the
feet of another woman. (A. 8900; Chief Inspector
Baxter),

POULTRY IN SACKS

Giving evidence in three RSPCA cases atHerea
ford Chief Inspector Evans said: ‘Since I have
been in Hereford I have been very much perturbed
at the way in which live poultry is brought into
Hereford Poultry Market.’

Two men and one woman were each ﬁned
£2 for conveying poultry in such a manner as to
be likely to cause unnecessary suffering.

Evidence was given that the poultry was
brought into the market in sacks tied at the neck
with string.

The woman defendant and one of the men
each had to pay 273. costs. (A. 8911; A. 8916;
A. 8917).

PET RABBIT STARVED TO DEATH

Inspector Gardner went with a police constable
to a house, and in the garden found a rabbit
hutch. A dead silver grey rabbit was found near
the door. '

The Inspector lifted up the dead rabbit and
said it was just like lifting up a skin.

The bottom of the hutch was, covered 'with
droppings about two inches deep.

An examination of the rabbit showed that there
must have been lack of food and proper care and
attention for about ten or eleven days. There
was no fat at all upon the rabbit and it was just
a bundle of bones. The owner of the rabbit,
brought before the Gloucester City Magistrates
by the RSPCA, was charged with causing un'
necessary suffering to his pet rabbit by omitting
to give suﬂicient care and attention and was ﬁned

£2. (A. 8745). -
CAT THIEVES HISSED

When two men were sent to jail for stealing cats
women in the public gallery of the court hissed.
The stolen cats, brought to the court in baskets
provided by the RSPCA, were shown. Prosecutv
ing Counsel said that the cats had been found in
several sacks in a van. A police patrol car‘ stopped
the van to question the driver.

Two of the four people in the van admitted
having stolen the cats. One of them was
alleged to have told the police that he was
going to sell the cats to a dealer for 53. each.
The cats were taken for care and attention to

the RSPCA Mayhew Home. (Police case.)

 

ADVERTISER’S ANNOUNCEMENT

‘OUR CATS’, the popular monthly magazine that spans

the world of Cat Lovers. Every issue contains interesting and

helpful articles by experts, general interest features and

wonderful pictures.‘A splendid gift for a Cat Lover any-

where. Subscription rate ”5. 6d. for l2 issues (specimen

copy ls. 7d. post free, ) from 4 Carlton Mansions, Clapham
Road, London, SW9

 




 

ROYAL SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS
Founded 1824 Headquarters: l05 Jermyn Street, London, S.W.1

 

PATRONS

HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN
HER MAJESTY QUEEN ELIZABETH, THE QUEEN MOTHER
HER ROYAL HIGHNESS PRINCESS ALICE COUNTESS OF ATHLONE
HER ROYAL HIGHNESS PRINCESS ARTHUR OF CONNAUGHT

 

VICE-PRESIDENTS
SIR MALCOLM SARGENT, HON LLD, D MUS, FRCM, FRSA

THE EARL OF SHAFTESBURY, KP, PC COLONEL R. M. P()\\'l{l_l... I)S()

THE COUNCIL (1952-1953)

Chairman: THE RT HON LORD MERTHYR, DL, TD, JP
Vice-Chairman: *MRS WALLIS POWER, JP

 

 

AGIUS, THE REV DOM. AMBROSE. 058, MA FREEMAN, PETER, ESQ, MP l l’()L‘l.l:l I. IHI, RI H().\' lHl l \Rl
*ALLIBERT, MRS GASKOIN, C. J. 13., ESQ. MA i P()\\"l:l.l.. (‘0! R. M.. DSO
*ALSOP, ALDERMAN A. J., FRCA, FCIS. JP GREENWOOD, ANTHONY, ESQ, MA, MP l *RAl'l'RAY. R. I.. ESQ. MA. l’ll.l)
BERTIE OF THAME, THE RT HON THE VISCOUNTESS *HARVEY, MRS J. W.. MA RISELEY. MRS. R. C.
BRANSOM, MISS L. 0., FRSA *HOCKIN, C. OWEN. ESQ *RIECR’. H. H.. ISQ
BYWATER, H. E., ESQ. MRCVS HOGG, s. R., ESQ. DSO, MC SHAPITSRURY. IHI. RI H()\ llll (‘UUNTESS OF
*COOPER, ALDERMAN J. 0., JP HOWELL, BASIL P. ESQ, MBE SIBLY. W. A.. ISQ. MA. JP
DAWES, CAPTAIN H. W-, CBE, MRCVS *HUNTER. MISS SNILL l'Hl-I RI \' l’Rlxlilthl)AR\' I . J. B., MBE, TD, JP
DORCHESTER, LT-COL THE RT HON LORD, OBE, JP LEE, MRS E. M. *TAI'I. MRS. RA
*DOWDELL, MRS M. R. LOCKWOOD, LT-COL J. C., JP, TD, MP lUFNlELL. Lll-_Ul—(‘OMMANDI R R. I... MA. RN
ESTCOURT-OSWALD, MISS AGNES, MB (LOND), DPH LONGMAN. MRS W. *WAI pom)~ MRS [)}~SB()R()[}(;H
(CANTAB), DOMS MOORE. LT-COL SIR THOMAS, CBE, MP *WHI'I‘P. HARRY. I’SQ.. FCA
*EVANS, MRS DAVID, BA *PARKER, MAURICE G., ESQ, MlSAC *WINCHIaS'I‘I‘R. l‘. J., ESQ. Ft‘lS. ISS

* Denotes Branch Representative

 

OFFICE BEARERS APPOINTED BY THE COUNCIL

Hon Treasurer—LT-COL J. C. LOCKWOOD, JP, TD, MP
DeDUty H9“ Treasurer—“HARRY WHITE, ESQ, FCA Assistant Secretary—I). A. L. (‘AMM, ESQ, BA

Hon Medical Ofﬁcer—A. N. CRAWFORD, ESQ, FRCSI Legal Secretary—J. HALL. ESQ

Bankers—MESS“ COUTTS AND C0, STRAND, LONDON Chief Veterinary Ofﬁcer MAJOR R. C. G. HANCOCK. BSC, MRcvs

Auditors—MESSRS VINEY, PRICE AND GOODYEAR, CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS

Chief Secretary—ARTHUR w. MOSS, ESQ, MBI‘. At'IS

 

Telegrams—WHITEHALL 7177 Whitehall 7177

 

Telephone

the

Fields

 

This iS the title of D. W. Gillingham’s delightful book describing
his return from Canada to the rural scenes of his English child-
hood. It‘s the current choice in the Country Book Club, the only
book club which serves the reader with outdoor interests.

CBC editions are unabridged, solidly bound, beautifully
printed and usually fully illustrated, yet they cost only Ss. 6d.
each—irrespective 0f the price of the original edit-"on. Unto the
Fields, for example, normally costs 175. 6d.

. . ‘ ‘ If your interests lie in the country, if you like good books and
‘ x . .. good writing, try CBC. The monthly choices are made by

' . ~ I = A. G. Street, the famous writer-farmer, and in the current pro-
8' M PlE - gramme are books by Maxwell Knight. John Moore and
o. ‘ \, \ ~ Crichton Porteous.
‘ Please write for details. .............................................
SAF E O 0 CBC, 38 William IV Street,
3" RE ESQCQAEHJS Xi ‘

London, WC?-
CAPTIVE BOLT PISTOL
FOR ALL ANIMALS

IttIIs IIIII suttvoxt [TD . BIRMINGHAM - s . ENGLAND . : ‘
5463 "‘ -- e C" .............................................................

:—
:
~

I
,4 III:

Without obligation please send
me your current prospectus
NAME .......................................... 132
ADDRESS ..........................................

   

 

 

 




 

THE ANIMAL WORLD

January 1955

 

 

mean less confusion, less fear and”, once
again, less likelihood of the big stick!

The brutalities practised by children in cattle
markets are well known by all whose duties take
them into these places. Appeals by the RSPCA
have led to their being barred from many mar—
kets, except when accompanied by an adult.

So great a problem is the watching of markets
by the RSPCA that thirty—six special Inspectors
are employed for these duties only. They supple~
ment the work of the 220 Inspectors who include
the supervision of markets with their other
duties—and who rightly consider cattle markets
to have the first claim upon their time.

Although the law makes it difficult for the

 

“-

RSPCA to prosecute for many of the sufferings
caused to animals in markets, every RSPCA
Inspector and Market Inspector is constantly
watching for trouble sources that can be remedied
by some regulation or structural improvement.
Then, by tact, lobbying and every means at his
disposal he will work for the reform, always with
the backing of Headquarters.

Thus, whilst the Society pursues its policy of
seeking everywhere the planning and construction
of markets offering the best possible conditions,
the men in the field will obtain an amelioration
of the market animals’ lot by small but valuable
reforms.

EDITOR

Calves
left
tied

at a
cattle
market

 

GROUP THIRTEEN
AUTUMN CONFERENCE

Over sixty delegates, representing most of the
Branches in the Group, attended the fourteenth
postewar conference at the Hotel Metropole,
Leeds; the Chairman was Alderman H. Wads—
worth Sellers, OBE, Deputy Chairman of the
Watch Committee of the Leeds City Council and
a member of the Leeds Branch committee. In
the absence of the Chief Secretary, Headquarters
was represented by Mr D. A. L. Camm, assistant
secretary.

The adoption of the Group honorary secrea
tary’s Report was moved by Miss Norah Sheard
(Spenborough) and seconded by Mrs C. N. Bell
(Malton). This was agreed.

Mrs J. W. Harvey (Group representative on
the Council) prefaced her report with an appeal
to all Branches to respond with greater prompti—
tude to the honorary secretary’s invitations to
conferences. Mrs Collier (Sheffield) moved the
adoption of the Group representative’s Report.
Resolutions touching on many aspects of animal
welfare work were discussed and sent forward
for consideration by the Council.

An emergency Resolution was moved by Mr

Stanley G. Watson (Group honorary secretary):
‘That this Conference of RSPCA Branches,
representing the whole of Yorkshire, urges the
amendment of the Pests Bill in order to ban the
use of the steelvtooth trap for rabbitvcatching
not later than 1956 (instead of 1958 as at present
proposed); and that a copy of this Resolution be
sent to the Minister of Agriculture and to every
Member of Parliament representing a Yorkshire
constituency’. What was urgently required, said
Mr Watson, was to bring pressure to bear on the
Government and this Resolution was the mOSt
forceful method available to the Conference of
dOmg so. Mr Newman (Harrogate) undertoo
to act as Seconder to the Resolution, which was
supported by the Chairman and carried.

OBITUARY

With sincere regret we report the following
deaths: Mrs K. Fleming, a Life Member; Mrs

Jacks, former hon sec of Nazeing auxiliary; Mrs

Cicely Fay, former hon sec of Alton, Haslemefe: ,

Petersﬁeld and District Branch‘ Mr Duncan
Gledhill, a supporter. , \

*

Encourage your friends to take ‘ANIMAL WORLD’-
45. 6d. per year, post paid. '

 

 

 




 

6 THEANIMALWORLD

January 1955

 

CAT ELEVEN DAYS IN SACK
THROWN INTO DITCH

A woman who threw a cat tied in a sack into
a ditch where it lay in mud and water for
eleven days until found by a ten—year—old boy
was sent to prison for three months at Brid—
lington.

The Bench described it as a shocking case and
commended the boy who found the cat. ‘

The defendant pleaded guilty of causing un—
necessary suffering and told the Bench that she
was sorry she had done it. Senior Inspector
Marsh said that a housewife was told by the
defendant that she could ﬁnd a good home for
the cat on a farm. At 6.30 that evening the cat
was put in a sack which was secured with a cord.
The defendant set off on a cycle with the cat and
a few days later when she saw the housewife she
said the cat was happy and well.

Eleven days later, said the Inspector, a ten—
year—old boy was searching for sticks for a
bonﬁre and entered a ditch. He saw a sack
in mud and water and to his surprise the
sack moved. He. untied the sack and removed
the cat. He took it home and gave it food and

drink and later his ﬁnd was reported to the
RSPCA.

h

Senior Inspector Marsh said that when he saw
the cat it was in such an emaciated condition
that it had to be given a humane end. (A.8881.)

Footnote: For his humanity the boy who tried to
help this unhappy cat received a presentation book

from the RSPCA.

    

A PAT FOR A GOOD BOY

Donald Wright, the boy who looked after the cat and called
the RSPCA, receives a pat on the shoulder from Senior
Inspector Marsh

 

 

A branch ofﬁcial had this idea for raising funds. In fourteen
months it raised £49 Os. Id. Apply to H.Q. for details.

EXPORT OF HORSES FROM BRITAIN
TO THE CONTINENT

These ﬁgures have been received from the
Ministry of Agriculture for the quarters endlng
June 30 and September 30, 1954:

Quarter ended June 30, 1954

 

Port of Bel— Holv Qer— Nor-

Shiprnent . gium France land many way Sweden Totals

London 14 —— 7 — 7 —— 28

Folke-
stone —— 82 —— — —- —— 82

Leith —— —— — 7 —— —— 7 “

Hull, __ _ 5 2 _ 4 11 }
Totals 14 82 12 9 7 4 128 3*

 

In addition, fortyvtwo horses and ﬁfteen ponies
were exported to Europe after being exempted
from veterinary examination.

Quarter ended September 30, 1954

Port of Bel- Hol— Nor— Den-
Shipment gium France land way mark Spain Totals
London 16 — 7 Z —— _ 25
Folke—

stone — 105 —— —— —— 10 1 15
Harwich — — l —— -—— —- 1
Leith —~— —~ _ w 8 -~ 8
Hull — ~— 1 —— —~ —— 1

__.—

 

Totals 16 105 2 8 10 150

\O

,_.__———

In addition, ninetyrone horses and thirty'QIle
ponies were exported to Europe after being
exempted from veterinary examination. '




 

'10 THEANHWALWORLD

January 1955

 

 

patience is open to you, and the road is long.

If he does attack, you must defend yourself
in every way and with all the strength you
have.

The animal must at once be given a severe
enough correction for him to realize from the
first encounter that he is not the stronger. . . .
Although I love animals as much as any man,
and although I have several times in my life
wept for grief at the death of certain of my
cats (lions and tigers), I have never gone about
my work in a suicidal frame of mind. On the
rare occasions when I have had to fight my
cats for my life, I have always thought that if
one of us had to be killed, it had better not be
the trainer.’

Lest it "be thought that two or three quotations
are made to appear typical of a book that has, in
fact, a diﬂerent tale to tell, a few random quota,
tions are given. Many more, providing in all a
sad story, could be made from Mr Court’s

pages.

‘Finally Tamed’

Page 61: ‘And for six months some black
panthers tried to get the better of me. One was
killed; the ﬁve others were ﬁnally tamed. So I perv
sist in my claim that Javanese panthers are not
to be tamed with lumps of sugar.’

Page 64: ‘Armed with a heavy chair—I used

a chair to protect myself in the early days of my
career; later I substituted a fork and cut out the
useless revolver—and a whip, I went into the
cage.’ Page 67: The tiger ‘got a whack on the head
with a club which made him let go’.

Page 79 (speakingofa tiger): 'As soon as he had
made his bridge, before he could notice, I slipped
a noose round his neck. At the end of the rope
was Johny de Kok with orders to pull it hard if
the tiger tried to bite me. . . .’ Page 82: ‘The next
day another lapse cost Radja a sound lash on his
hindquarters. . . .’ Page 89: ‘Kovack came to my
aid and sent the animal sprawling with a cross
blow, . . . I had seized one of the heavy stools and
I ﬂung it with all my strength at the beast’s head.
The bear caught it on the skull. . . . Once more
it went sprawling, knocked out. . . ’

‘Brutalf

One of the tigers had killed a man. The author
writes (page 120): ‘It was my turn to be brutal,
terribly brutal, and brutal I was’.

Throughout Wild Circus Animals is this theme
of justifying the trainer’s treatment of animals.
The animals were difﬁcult and therefore, so
the author implies, they needed to be handled
roughly. It never occurred to him that if the
wild animals he exhibited had been left in their
natural surroundings, they would not have come
under the need of a correction that he has him—
self characterized as brutal.

 

BRANCH
NEWS

*

This picture of a splendid 5-year-
old comes from Miss R. Pain,
Speldhurst Auxiliary hon sec.

  

Ashton, Stalybridge, Mossley, Hyde, Glossop and District
Miss V. Carter, Stalybridge auxiliary hon secretary, organized
a jumble sale at Chapel Street Methodist Schoolrooms, and
raised £13 7s. for branch funds.

Balham and 'Tooting—Wandsworth Common Auxiliary Mrs
Granville-Stott, auxiliary hon secretary, reports a very suc-
cessful sale was held at Mrs Seward’s School and raised £17
for branch funds. The auxiliary stall at the Christmas market
in the Seymour Hall raised £55 103.

Bath and District Aid A. W. S. Berry, Deputy Mayor of
Bath and branch secretary, opened the bazaar in the Trinity
Hall, Trowbridge. Mrs J. Hobhouse, whose husband is
chairman of the branch, introduced two dogs who were
formerly strays, and who were adopted by Mrs Hobhouse.
They, with a cat and two kittens, ‘assisted’ Aid A. W. S.
Berry at the Opening ceremony. Sutn raised: £774.
Berkshire—Newbury and District Newbury Civic Ball,
attended by Mayors and Mayoresses from ﬁve boroughs,
raised £60 for branch funds.

A whist drive organized at Winterbourne by Miss Angela
Baylis, auxiliary hon secretary, raised £9 2s. for the branch.
Buckinghamshire Mrs Tew, Newport Pagnell auxiliary hon
sec, with the aid of helpers, organized a competition and
raised £57 55. for branch funds.

Burton-on-Trent Mrs Hallam, Alrewas auxiliary hon secre-
tary, organized a whist drive and dance and raised £17 for
branch funds.

Cumberland—North and East Lady Graham, branch presi-
dent, presented the RSPCA bronze medal and certiﬁcate
to Mr Arthur Weir who risked. his life to rescue a sheep.
Mr. Lionel S. Lightfoot, branch chairman, described Mr
Weir’s gallantry and those present when the award was made

This picture sent
by Mrs Maidie
Andrew Hughes,
branch hon sec-
retary for Mont-
gomery, shows
an excellent dis-
play at the
Royal Show

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




January 1955

“-

4 THEANIMALWORLD

 

 

 

THE RSPCA AT WORK

NOVEMBER 1954 HEADQUARTERS CLINICS

Number of animals handled:
Cats, 4,080 Dogs, 4,187 .\lise., 452 Total, 8,719

Number of animals given emergency ﬁrst—aid: 2,157

RSPCA INSPECTORS

2,120 Complaints of cruelty investigated
1 Offender imprisoned PUTNEY CONVALESCENT WARD
72 Offenders ﬁned.
14 Persons guilty of minor acts of cruelty cautioned in writing. N W711???” 0f 617117110115 handled:
846 Registered cautions were administered by Inspectors. Cats, 24 D085, 79 MW” 0 THldl. 103

CLASSIFICATION OF CONVICTIONS NIGHT STAFF

HORSESwWorking in an unﬁt state, neglecting, over,
Number of calls received: 1,150

 

riding 1.0 g
N l l h 2 Miles covered by ambulance in respeei u] urgent calls: 1,933
CATTLE— e ectin ne 'ectin in rowin orn .
g g, g g g g Number of animals rescued: 6
SHEEP—Neglecting, exposmg 1" an unﬁt state 2 Number of cases treated by veterinary surgeon: 188

PIOS—-Neglecting, overcrowding, conveying in an unﬁt
state .. .. 6

NORTH WALES UNIT
First—aid cases: Cats, 21 Dogs, 50 Misc., 2 Total, 73
Number of other animals handled by Unit:
Cats, 71 Dogs, 56 Misc., 0 Total, 127
Number of miles covered by Unit during month: 2,055

DOGS—Neglecting, kicking, shooting and wounding,
killing in improper manner, etc. 26

CATS—Neglecting, killing in improper manner, etc. 4

BOWLS—Neglecting, kicking, killing in improper man—
ner, conveying in improper manner, etc. 11

 

 

OFFENCES UNDER THE PROTECTION OF BIRDS ACT, 1925:

 

 

AWARDS

Conﬁning birds in small cages 2
OFFENCES UNDER THE PROTECTION OF BIRDS ACT, 1933: C4585 001151519714 60
Selling other than a close—ringed specimen bred in Certiﬁcates of MOT“ 19
captivity 1 Bronze Medals 9
Silver Medals 5
OFFENCES UNDER THE WILD BIRDS PROTECTION ACTS:
Using traps for the purpose of taking 1 RECORDS FOR I 9 5.3
Using nets for the purpose of taking 1 ‘
Being in possession of recently taken birds 1 COMPLAINTS 27 686
, CONVICTIONS 864
VARIOUS OFFENCES: CAUTIONS‘ 10 147
Infringements of the Transit of Horses Order, 1951 2 _ ’ H
Permitting in offences 4 HEADQUARTERS CLINICS
TOTAL NUMBER OF CONVICTIONS :5 Number of animals handled: 155,236
NIGHT STAFF
Number of calls, 20 ,440
During NOVEMBER, 1954, Magistrates, at the request of the
RSPCA, disqualiﬁed FIFTEBN persons” from owning a dog or NORTH WALES UNIT
holding a dog licence. Disqualiﬁcations were as follows: NW’lbeT 0f (1711-7714115 handled, 2,797
TWO for 2 years; VFIVE for 5 years; THREE for 10 years; TWO AWARDS
for 99 years; THREE for Life. Margaret Wheatley Cross 1
Silver Medals 6
Total number of COMPLAINTS from January 1st 25,785 Bars to Silver Medals 2
Total number of CONVICTIONS from January lst ‘. .. 825 Bronze Medals ' 5 8
. Bars to Bronze Medals 10
Total number of CAUTIONS from January lst 8,924 Merit Certiﬁcates 121

 




 

THE ANIMAL WORLD

January 1955

 

 

ROUGH USAGE OF WILD ANIMALS:
.. WHO IS TO BLAME?

A Trainer Admits . . . ‘
The RSPCA has always Said that the ordinary

public has a heavy responsibility for the con ,

tinuance of wild animal turns as a form of enterv
tainment. On the grounds of taste and because of
the inevitable suffering of life in travelling cages,
the RSPCA has said that wild animal perform—
ances should be abolished and now comes a book,
written by someone who has been in this business
all his life, admitting:

Continued on opposite page

One of the illustrations (right) shows the inevitable stick
and whip in use.

 

 

Miss Audrey Russell, the well-

known broadcaster,

 

         

signing autographs for the

boys of Ealing College, at the RSPCA .Christmas Market and Film Show, which was

a prize a bottle of brandy which had been served at the State Banquet in Canberra
to Her Majesty The Queen. The prize was won by a gentleman living in Worcester

‘KEEP GOING’ SAID HEADMISTRESS

‘Keep going’ said the Headmistress of a school
to one RSPCA School Lecturer who pro—
posed to end his talk to the children. The
Headmistress had noticed how attentively the
children were listening to him and saw no
reason to bring an end to a lesson so enter—
taining and beneﬁcial. .

Since the last report 183 lectures were given in
schools in Sussex, Cheshire, Kent, Wiltshire,
Dorset, Surrey, Merionethshire, Southport, Din,
nington, Ashford (Middlesex), Oxford, Abinga
don, Tilbury and the London area. A group of
students at Dr Barnardo’s Homes, Barkingside,
an Animal Defender group in Southﬁelds (Lon—
don), a Youth Club in Forest Gate, E7, and a
Girls’ Nautical Air Training Corps in Shotton
were also addressed.

RSPCA Photographic Competition
Final Results

The ﬁnal winners in this competition are:

lst Prize £3 33.: V. Turner, 137 .Walton Street,
Oxford. (Dog: lst Prize October); 2nd Prize
£2 23.: Mrs N. Payne, 204 Stanhope Drive, Hors’
forth, Leeds. (Dog and Puppy: lst Prize August);
3rd Prize £1 15.: Mr P. D. Corset, 112 Rock
Avenue, Gillingham, Kent. (Cat: lst Prize

September. )

 




 

12 THEANIMALWORLD

January 1955

 

given to Derek Thomas. As a reward for their services
Miss Lewis and Mrs Vaughan each received an RSPCA
certiﬁcate and a silver meritorious badge.

Norfolk—Mid and Norwich A whist drive organized in
Drayton by Mrs Hampson—Jones, auxiliary hon sec, raised
£15 for branch funds; and one organized by Mrs Butler,
Long Stratton auxiliary hon sec, raised £30 1s. 5d.
Norfolk West Mrs J. Mudie, Hunstanton auxiliary hon
sec, organized a jumble sale and raised £22 for branch funds.
North Tees Division Mrs W. V. M. Kelly, co division hon
sec, reports that the Ladies’ Sewing Circle raised £91 for
branch funds from a coffee morning and sale of work.
Nottingham and Notts Mrs Wright, Worksop auxiliary
hon sec, reports that a jumble sale raised £10 10s. 5d. for
branch funds.

Peterborough and District Mrs Lee held a jumble sale and
raised £13 lls. 3d. for branch funds.

Richmond and District Mrs M. Williams, branch chairman,
organized an exemption dog show at the Richmond Drill
Hall. Helpers were: Mr E. N. Bowley, Mr G. E. Ledeboer
(judge), Mrs Callasham (judge’s steward), and Chief In-
spector H. Liddicoat and Senior Inspector E. Ruck (judges).

*
Mrs H. Noel-Hill, branch hon secretary, attended an
animal welfare meeting which was addressed by Miss Nancy
Price. Mr Peter Freeman, Council Member, presided.

 

’* RSPCA stand, BOAC Festival, Heston Airport. The
site was given by the BOAC

Rotherham and District Miss Nancy Collinson, branch hon
secretary, and Mrs Lodge organized a collection at the
Pniéed Steel Company works and raised £11 15s. for branch
un s.

Shropshire The branch chairman and president, Lt-Col
The Viscount Hill, presided over the annual meeting and
was supported by the Mayor and Mayoress of Shrewsbury.
Miss Bransom, Council Member, was the guest speaker.
Mrs Meredith, branch hon secretary, attended and Wing
Commander Hillier, branch organizer, spoke.

A bring-and—buy sale organized by Lady Berwick and
The Viscountess Hill raised £65 for branch funds.
Suffolk—East Coast, Constable By permission of the Rev
Roberts Inspector Wood gave an address at a service in
Worlingham Church.

Surrey—Kingston, Surbiton, District and South Middlesex
A jumble sale in Sunbury raised £40 16s. 3d. for branch
funds. Mrs Petley (committee member) provided the
premises and refreshments for a whist drive in Surbiton,
where £8 15s. was raised.

Sussex—East, and Hastings Miss E. Carter, Bexhill
auxiliary hon secretary, presented to Molly Hoad an
RSPCA medal for rescuing a cat from a tree. The presenta-
tion was made in the hall of the Down Secondary School
or Girls.

West London—Knightsbridge Auxiliary Mrs R. C. Riseley,
branch co hon secretary and hon secretary of the Knights-
bridge auxiliary, organized a private sale at her house in
Lennox Gardens and raised the gross sum of £125 for branch
funds. A stall was arranged by Mrs Tetallack on behalf of
the Paddington auxiliary, and Headquarters was repre-
sented.

Weston-super-Mare Division Models made by Mr K. P. G.
Bick, division hon secretary, ﬁgured in a display organized
by the Division in Littlewood’s Store, Weston-super-Mare.
Wiltshire—North Recent activities reported by Miss M.
Pound, Calne auxiliary hon secretary, are: a children’s
Animal Sunday service conducted at Holy Trinity Church
by the Rev R. Wood and an animal defenders’ pet show at
Calne Junior CE Controlled School. The pet show was
organized by the Headmaster, Mr R. G. Goodship, and
from the Animal Sunday service 10s. 65. was given to branch
fun s.

Wiltshire—Salisbury and District Salisbury auxiliary held
a whist drive in Salisbury and raised £9 for branch funds.
Miss Wormell, branch hon secretary, presented the prizes.
A whist drive held at the New Theatre Ballroom, Bulford,
was organized by Mrs Conway, and the MC was Mr Hicks.
Twelve pounds was raised for the branch.

Wimbledon and District When the RSPCA caravan visited
Wimbledon the Mayor showed interest. (£9 10s. collected).
Worcestershire—East, and West Warwickshire Mrs B.
Lazenby, Bromsgrove auxiliary hon sec, organized. a jumble
sale which raised £14 165. 612d. for branch funds and Miss
Strangwood a whist drive which raised £10 123. 6d.
Yorkshire—York and District Mrs F eatherston reports that
a coffee party and bring-and-buy stall held in the De Grey
Rooms, York, by courtesy of Mrs Keech, raised £46 93. 3d.
for branch funds.

OVERSEAS

Tanganyika A Hallow’een ball at the Hellenic Club, Dar-

es-Salaam raised £237 for branch funds. Mrs Isobel Slater,
organizing secretary for the Tanganyika branch, had help in
organizing this ball from Dr I. Gebaur, Mr Gebaur and
Mrs D. Dixon. Mr Patel and his art students helped with
the decorations.

RSPCA FILM NEWS

The Society’s ﬁlms were sent to the following places for
showing recently: Todmorden, Sandown, Lincoln, South
Benﬂeet, West Hartlepool, Watford, Eton, Audlem,
Clapham, Erith, Dover, East Ham, Plymouth, Thorndon,
Edmonton, Portreath, York, Weymouth, N. Kensington,
Dorchester, Preston, Sutton—in—Ashﬁeld, Stockton—on-Tees,
Ashington, Winterton, Croydon, Chipping Ongar, Black—
pool, Tooting, Shefﬁeld, Guildford, Newport, Hythe,
Chard, Hull, Winscombe, Morley, Hertford, Bacton—on-
Sea, Broughton Moor, Derby, Sidcup, Stamford, Henley-
on—Thames, Penmaenmawr, Reading. ‘

 

FLAG DAY
GOODS

Celluloid Buttons

LIST 0N APPLICATION

THE UNIVERSAL BUTTON CO. LTD.
1-9 Birkbeck Street, Bethnal Green, LONDON, E.2

Telephone: BIShopsgate 5750 Telegrams: ‘Unihutoo Edo’

 

 

 

 




 

 

@INEE'CQRMS

Manufacturers of _

UNIFORM CLOTHING

HOBSON & SONS CAPS HELMETS LEATHER
(LONDON) LTD

BELTS POUCHES etc. etc

Gold and Silver Laces
Embroideries of every
All ' ' description for ALL
enquiries to

154-164 TOOLEY STREET UNIFORMED SERVICES

LONDON BRIDGE S.E.1 PATTERNS OF CLOTH
and ESTIMATES

Telephone: HOP 2476 (4 lines) will be forwarded free of charge
Telegrams: HOBSON, BOROH, LONDON

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

R. S.P.C.A=

 

 

 

FORM OF BEQUEST FOR NATIONAL WORK

To those benevolent individuals who may wish to become benefactors by Will to this
Society, the following form is respectfully suggested:——

‘I bequeath to the ROYAL SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS, founded
1824, for the general purposes of that Society, the sum of £ .......................................... , free
of death duty and the receipt of the Treasurer for the time being of the said Society shall
be sufﬁcient discharge for such legacy.’ (If it should be desired that the legacy should be ex’

pended on some particular phase of the Society’s work, a direction to this effect may be added to the

form of bequest.)

 

NOTE
By the Act of William IV and I Victoria, cap. 26, all Wills or Codicils must be in Writing signed by the

Testator, and attested by two witnesses in the presence of the Testator and of each other.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Printed by Shenval Press, Simson Shand Ltd, London, Hertford and Harlow, and
published by Arthur W. Moss for the RSPCA at 105 Jermyn Street, London, SW1

. W,

 




