 

 

 

THE AMERICAN SOCIETY

FOR THE

PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS

INCORPORATED BY THE STATE OF NEW YORK
APRIL I0, 1866.

 

THIRTY-SEVENTH ANNUAL REPORT

FOR THE YEAR ENDING DECEMBER 31, 1902.

 

JOHN P. HAINES, PRESIDENT.

 

HEADQUARTERS OF THE SOCIETY:

MADISON AVENUE AND 26TH STREET

NEW'YORK

I903

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 




OFFICERS AND BOARD OF MANAGERS

OF

THE AMERICAN SOCIETY FOR THE
PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO
ANIMALS

1903

President.
JOHN P. HAINES.

 

Vice-Presidents.
BENJAMIN D. HICKS. JOSEPH H. CHOATE.
REV. MORGAN DIX, S.T.D. JAMES GRANT WILSON.
FREDERIC GALLATIN. FREDERIC R. COUDERT.
ALFRED WAGSTAFF. WILLIAM FAHNESTOCK.
JOHN CLAFLIN. JOEL B. ERHARDT.

Executive Committee.

BENJAMIN D. HICKS. JOHN CLAFLIN.

JOSEPH H. CHOATE. FREDERIC GALLATIN.

JAMES GRANT WILSON. REV. PERCV STICKNEY GRANT.
FREDERIC R. COUDERT. GORDON KNOX BELL.
WILLIAM FAHNESTOCK. HORACE W. CARPENTIER.
JOHN MASON KNOX. WILLIAM H. BALDWIN, JR.
REV. MORGAN DIX, S.T.D. FREDERICK G. BOURNE.

Secretary and Treasurer.
JOHN MASON KNOX.

 

 

Counsel. Attorneys.
STRONG & CADWALADER. J. MAYHEW WAINWRIGHT.
CROWLEY WENTWORTH.
Superintendent. Veterinary Surgeon.
CHARLES H. HANKINSON. SAMUEL K. JOHNSON.

BROOKLYN OFFICE:
13 Willoughby Street.

Inspector. Attorney.
FRANK O. CLARK. GEORGE F. ELLIOTT.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

ADDRESS OF THE PRESIDENT.

 

Ladies and Gentlemen :

In presenting to you the report of our Society for the year
which has just closed, I shall not detain you with any de-
tailed account of the statistics of our local work in the vast
district now included in the Boroughs of the City of New
York. To the ﬁgures, as they are given in the report of the
Secretary, I invite your careful attention, believing that they
represent an amount of well-directed activity which deserves
the recognition of the public, and which is not surpassed in
efﬁciency by any department of the public service, nor
equaled, or even approached, by the work of any other simi-
lar society in the world. To say so is to understate the
facts, and I venture to think that if every member of the
Board and of the Society in general could be induced to
study these ﬁgures, and to investigate the actual operations
which the ﬁgures dimly represent, the best informed of them
all would be astonished at the facts with which they would
thus become personally acquainted. I do not pretend that
the Society has yet reached perfection even in its local work.
No one can be more conscious than I am of the large possi-
bilities of improvement, because I suppose that no one ever
has been, or ever can be, more entirely absorbed than I am
in the practical study of the evils with which our Society is
called to grapple or more constantly engaged in devising
better methods for the prosecution of our work. Neverthe-
less, and in no spirit of boasting, I have the satisfaction to
say that our local work in all departments is now as prac-

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

6

tically efﬁcient as it is possible to make it with the limited
means at our command. Indeed it has been'considerably
increased in one department during the past year by the pur-
chase of two Motor Wagons for the collection of homeless,
strayed and abandoned dogs and cats and animals which the
owners are no longer willing to care for. With horse-service
it was found impossible to cover the ground without over—
working the horses. From our ambulance house, for ex—
ample, to the City Line in one direction is 15 miles, in an-
other 20, in a third 21, and in a fourth 30 miles, so that a
single trip of our wagons, without counting any necessary
deviations from the most direct route, means the covering
of from 30 to 60 miles in a single day. By the use of motor
vehicles we are enabled to do several times the amount of
work with the same force, and to do it better and more easily,
than with horses, and in the end at less expense.

I mentioned in my last report that the membership of the
Society was greater in 1901 than in any former year. I have
now the pleasure to report that the increase in 1902 has been
considerably greater than in 1901. It is, therefore, the great-
est in any one year of the Society’s existence. To this
gratifying fact I may add that the number of individual con-
tributors t0 the support of our work has been larger in 1902
than in any former year. At the same time, the increase
is not one-tenth of what it might be if the present members
of the Society would interest themselves, as they easily might,
in inducing their friends to join our association and con-
tribute even moderate sums to its support. The increase
of the past two years is doubtless due in some measure to the
efforts of our enrolled members, and I would again very
earnestly repeat my appeal of last year for a further increase
of activity in the recruiting of new members of our organi-
zation.

One enlargement of the number of our supporters is ex-
ceedingly gratifying; I refer to the Young Defenders’ League,
which has been largely extended during the year. It is to

 

 

 




 

 

 

7

the rising generation that we must look for the continuance
of our work in years to come, and every effort to engage
their interest is rewarded with some notable success. It is
truly interesting to see the earnestness with which school
children come to our ofﬁce to be enrolled as members of the
League, and we have many touching evidences of the sin-
cerity of their desire to serve the cause of the Society in
some personal way. This part of our work gives me pecu-
liar satisfaction. Lectures have been regularly given twice,
a week to the members of the League and to children of
the public and private schools of the City; and the intelligent
interest taken in these lectures and in the cause of animal
protection are highly gratifying. Among the attractions of
our ofﬁcial building, the Museum is one of the most effective
to young and old; and I believe that the many visitors who
resort to it never fail to go away with a deeper horror of
cruelty and a stronger desire to sweep it from our country.
The interest of the Press and the righteous humanity of
our Judges in assisting us to secure the execution of the hu—
mane laws of the State are now so universal that they have
almost ceased to be a matter of special observation. But
they are not forgotten, and I would avail myself of the pres-
ent opportunity to express our deep sense of the gratitude
of our Society fOr their constant and invaluable help in the
prosecution of our work. It IS a duty to recognize the gen-
erous manner in which the work of our Society is treated by
the municipal authorities. This Society has no politics and
no concern in the debates of political parties. Its position
in that respect has always been perfectly understood, ‘as we
trust it alWays may be. We are under deep obligations to
men of all political parties for the candor with which they
have been ready 'to listen to our representations and the
practical assistance which they have always been ready to
render whenever an occasion has arisen. The Police De-
partment Of New York, under every successive administra-
tion, has been friendly and helpful to us; and at the present

 




 

9

stantly more and more manifest that our work can be far
more effectively done in City, State and Nation, in our own
way, and by our own methods, than by joining in associa-
tions which, however meritorious in their purpose, seem to
make pretentious displays of organization with compara—
tively slight results in work. It is no disrespect to any of
those well-meant organizations to say, plainly and frankly,
that our own work can be best done now, as it has been in
the past, by adhering to the wise policy of our lamented
Founder, Henry Bergh. We condemn no one, and we
criticise no one, but experience has shown that the concen-
tration of effort, to which we ascribe very much of our own
success, could not be aided by participating in the divided
counsels and visionary schemes of associations which are ’
without coherence, and which can have no permanent policy.

I would specially observe in this connection that the ab-
solutely free and independent position which our Society
maintains, and the exclusiveness of its devotion to the single
object of animal protection, together with the national scope
of its interests and sympathies, have made it far easier for
us to cooperate in help and counsel with local societies in dis—
tant parts of the country than it would be if we were less in-
dependent, or if we were committed to a diversity of schemes
and plans which do not command universal approbation.
Of the ease with which our well understood position enables
us to render efﬁcient help to protective societies in other
States two incidents of the past year’s experience may serve
as sufﬁcient illustration.

In the latter part of the month of August it was seriously
proposed by parties who have since been anxious to avoid
public recognition that there should be a “cowboy race”
from Deadwood, S. D., to Omaha, Neb., a distance of six
hundred miles. The projectors thought to give this scheme
a special popularity by arranging that the end of the race
should occur at the very time at which the President of the
United States was expected to arrive in Omaha; and the prize

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

IO

was to be awarded to the cowboy who should ﬁrst shake the
hand of the President after his arrival. The atrocious cruelty
which would have been inﬂicted in such a race was fully ex-
posed in the November number of OUR ANIMAL FRIENDS.
Our very ﬁrst step was taken in a dispatch of inquiry ad-
dressed to the President of the Nebraska Humane Society,
by whom we were informed that arrangements for the race
were being perfected at Deadwood. On the following day a
dispatch to the Mayor of Deadwood was answered with a
statement that the rough—rider race had been declared off.
Simultaneously, however, we received information from the
Secretary of the Nebraska Society to the effect that there
was reason to believe that the scheme was still under practical
consideration. In this situation of affairs, I felt it to be my
duty, not only as President of this Society, but as a personal
friend of the President of the United States, to address a
dispatch to Mr. Roosevelt informing him of the state of affairs
and asking him to refuse to permit so ﬂagrant a misuse of
his name. This dispatch was dated on September 2d. On
September 4th the President’s private secretary, Mr. Cortel-
you, sent a dispatch to Captain Seth Bullock, of Deadwood,
S. D., stating that the President would not be willing to have
such a race “ unless it were possible to exercise supervision
over the condition in which the horses would come in ”; and
closed the dispatch with these words: “As this is not pos—
sible, he (the President) asks you to say in his name that
he requests the race not to take place.” Of course that race
did not take place, and it may be believed as well as hoped
that no other race of similar character will hereafter be even
proposed in this country. That fact alone is gratifying; but
the incident is of special interest in the connection in which
I have cited it, to show the harmonious manner in which our
Society can fulﬁll a truly national function in direct coopera—
tion with local societies, and also the respect with which its
representations are treated not only by gentlemen holding
high positions of municipal authority, like his Honor, the

 

 




 

II

Mayor of Deadwood, but even by the President of the United
States.

Another incident hardly less gratifying has occurred within
the past month. On the tenth of December, I learned that
an outrageous spectacle was in course of preparation
at a well—known resort, called “Thomasson’s Cockpit,” at
Rockhill, S. C. It was to include a bullﬁght in which two
bulls were to be “fought to a ﬁnish ”; two cocking-mains,
with nine birds in each, and a ﬁght between two thoroughbred
bulldogs. The affair was to come off on the twelfth, only two
days after the information reached our ofﬁce. I immediately
opened communications with Mr. J. Alwyn Ball, President of
the South Carolina S. P. C. A., who had not ‘heard of the affair
until he received my telegram. At the same time I addressed
a dispatch to the Governor of South Carolina, who instantly
replied that he also had heard nothing of the projected bull-
ﬁght, but had now wired for particulars. The particulars were
easily obtained, and on the very day on which the abominable
exhibition was to have taken place, I received from Mr. Ball
a dispatch stating that the Governor had “interested him-
self and stopped the ﬁght,” adding his ofﬁcial thanks for our
prompt action. The prompt and energetic measures taken
by Governor McSweeney to prevent the disgrace which it
was proposed to put upon the State of South Carolina by so
atrocious an exhibition of barbarism are worthy of all praise,
as the New York “Sun ” of December 12th contained the
following dispatch from the Charleston correspondent of that
journal: “The Governor made an investigation, found that
the ﬁght had been planned, and to-day he telegraphed the
sheriff of York County to prevent it. He also instructed the
Catawba Riﬂes to be prepared to assist the sheriff in enforc—
ing the law.” .

I venture to think that such incidents as these are decisive
evidences of the wisdom of maintaining in all its integrity the
independent character and well earned position of our own
Society as “The American Society for the Prevention of

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

12

Cruelty to Animals,” without amalgamation or organic asSo—
ciation with any other society in which the protection of ani-
mals is complicated with other causes, however meritorious,
for the protection of children, the suppression of vice, the
propagation of total abstinence from intoxicating liquors
and many others. The incoherence of such associations is a
necessary consequence of the variety of objects to which they
are devoted; and the result is a dissipation of energy from
which our own cause has nothing to gain.

It has something to lose, however; for one of the mischiefs
resulting from the visionary, though always well intended,
efforts of such organizations is the launching of projects of
legislation which show nothing so clearly as the inexperience
of their framers. In the State of New York, for example,
there is hardly a session of the legislature in which some
foolish bill is not pressed by some enthusiastic committee,
with the best intentions, of course, but without one particle
of common sense. Year by year it takes no small amount of
time and labor to watch these bills and to explain to com—
mittees and members of the legislature why their enactment
would do no good, but, on the contrary, would actually impair
the value of the general law of the State for the prevention of
cruelty, a law which I cannot too frequently nor too emphat-
ically declare to be the best law for the protection of animals
which now exists in the whole world.

Occasionally wild schemes of legislation are brought for-
ward by persons who are afﬂicted with an insane craving for
notoriety. A specimen of that sort of legislation was pre-
sented only a few weeks ago in the municipal councils of
this City. It was gravely proposed that the keeping of dogs
should be absolutely prohibited in any dwelling in which two
families or more live under the same roof. In effect this
would be to banish all dogs from this City, except those which
are owned by the wealthy; and even the wealthy would be
deprived of that innocent privilege if any of their servants
happened to be married people! The mere proposal caused

 

 




 

13

Widespread alarm; and at a hearing before the committee to
which the bill was referred, I offered the letters of two thou-
sand persons against its passage. Hundreds of interested
people were present, and some very pathetic facts were
brought before the committee. A full account of this matter
appeared in the December number of OUR ANIMAL FRIENDS,
and it is hardly necessary to say that the silly scheme was
ignominiously thrown out.

In the matter of legislation I have the great satisfaction to
report a triumph for our cause at which the founder of this
Society would have rejoiced with exceeding great joy, since
it signally reverses the most deplorable defeat which he ever
encountered in his long campaign for the protection of ani-
mals. The practice of pigeon-shooting he held in special
abomination; and when he was sued for damages for inter~
fering with that cruel sport, 'he 'had the satisfaction to hear
the decision of the court that the general law of the State,
which had been enacted mainly through his personal en-
deavors, was sufﬁcient for the prohibition of pigeon-shooting
as an undoubtedly cruel practice. This occurred in I874, but
in 1875 the legislature passed a bill to permit pigeon-shooting,
not only by members of sportsmen’s clubs,but actually by any
“incorporated society.” For twenty—six years that act dis-
graced the statute book of the State of New York; and it
would probably do so still, if the unexampled exhibitions of
butchery at Interstate Park, L. I., had not aroused a senti-
ment of horror and detestation throughout the whole com-
munity. In the creation of that sentiment the Press of this
City did noble service; but even then, so large were the mer-
cantile interests involved, so great was the inﬂuence of mem—
bers of sportsmen’s clubs, and so desperate were the methods
of obstruction which were plied in the legislature, that the
repeal of the bill which was attempted last year would again
have failed if the special and very laborious efforts of our
Society had not overwhelmed the legislature with abundant
and incontrovertible evidences that the public conscience

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

I4

demanded, and was determined to have, a repeal of the odious
and inhuman statute under which such atrocities were legal-
ized by a special exception to the general law. I need not
enter into further details of this matter, nor need I repeat
our large and grateful expressions of admiration for the ser-
vices which were rendered on that occasion by gentlemen,
belonging to both parties, whose inﬂuence was powerfully
exerted in our behalf, both within and without the halls of
legislation. It is enough to record the fact that the statutes

‘ of New York are at last free from the one “ damned spot ”

by which any act of cruelty was legalized.

Another matter of legislation, and that of a distinctly na-
tional character, is now occupying our careful attention. I
refer to the proposal that the practice of vivisection shall be
legalized, absolutely without restraint or restriction of any
kind whatsoever. The subject of vivisection is one on which
this Society has always maintained a principled reserve. I
believe that a vast majority of our members hold, as I do,
that vivisection is essentially immoral, and further, that it is
hideously cruel when experiments upon living animals,
whether with the knife, or with the electric current, or with
drugs, or by inoculation, are performed without the use of
effectual anaesthetics. I avow my own personal belief that
the pretended beneﬁts to humanity which are said to have
been procured by means of vivisection are absolutely unreal,
and this belief I hold notwithstanding all that has been written
on that subject by the advocates of vivisection. It is due to
myself to say this, because I have next to say that, in face of
the general judgment of the medical faculty that experiments
on living animals are justiﬁable because of their demonstrated
utility, our Society, in its corporate capacity, has never taken
an attitude of unqualiﬁed opposition to vivisection, when
properly conducted, nor has it authorized me as its President
to take such a position in its behalf. But I believe that there
is not one of all the members of our Society who does not
hold, as I do, that vivisection, if permitted at all, ought to be

 




 

IS

guarded, like all other dangerous and questionable practices,
against abuse by the ignorant and reckless. On that subject
there can be no doubt. Experiments on living animals ought
to be permitted only to skilled surgeons or physicians; they
ought not to be permitted, even in medical colleges, to under—
graduate students. They ought not to be permitted in class
demonstrations to prove facts that no longer need proof.
They ought never to be made without the most conscientious
use of anaesthetics to prevent needless suffering to the un-
fortunate subject. Regulations to throw such simple safe-
guards as these around a practice which is capable of such
awful abuse ought to have the support of every man of science
in whom science has not survived humanity. It is idle to
say that such regulations are not necessary. They are neces-
sary, and every living vivisector knows them to be necessary,
because every man who knows the history of vivisection must
and does ipso facto know the horrible atrocities of cruelty
which have been wantonly practiced in cold blood, and the
horrible amount of perfectly needless and inexcusable animal
suffering which has been, and still is, inﬂicted in the repetition
of experiments for pretended purposes of demonstration, and
even of practice by undergraduate students. In the Senate
of the United States a bill has been introduced by Senator
Gallinger, himself a highly educated physician, for the reason-
able regulation—not at all for the prohibition—of vivisection
in the District of Columbia. The provisions of the bill are
moderate and reasonable, and I trust that it may yet be
passed by Congress. I rejoice to see that some very able
members of the medical profession are supporting it; and I
can imagine no reason why any man should be opposed to
its passage unless 'he wishes to secure to himself or others a
right, or rather, a legal license, to commit acts of odious and
futile cruelty. I trust that the members of our Society, one
and all, will do their best endeavor to further the passage
of Senator Gallinger’s moderate and well-conceived bill.
Among the many subjects of legislation which we 'have

 




 

I7

is to show beyond all peradventure that the position and law—
ful operations of our Society are impregnable on any legal
or constitutional ground.

In conclusion I shall simply ask you to observe that our
local work continues to be prosecuted with all possible vigor,
and with some addition to our means of efﬁciency; that our
work in the State continues to be done by our force of 220
agents with some excellent results ;that our work of education
and legislation goes on with undiminished activity; and that in
many gratifying ways our position as a truly American Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals is more fully recog-
nized and more highly esteemed than it ever was before. The
limitations of time require me to omit many other tOpics to
which I might refer. I close, therefore, with the expression
of a cordial wish that each and every member of the Board
and of the Society may enjoy all possible blessings in the New
Year upon which we have entered.

JOHN P. HAINES,
President.
December 31, 1902.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

In submitting my report for the year 1902, I will not attempt
to give an extended review of the operations of the Society, for
the reason that the subjects are so well covered in the Address
of the President and the Reports of the Treasurer and Superin-
tendent.

I take this occasion to congratulate the members, supporters,
and friends of the cause on the steady and successful advance-
ment which the Society continues to make in public favor, as
shown in the Address and Reports referred to above.

During the year 1902, new societies were organized in several
States, and it is gratifying to report that success has attended
every effort made towards extending the good work.

In the State of New York the civilizing inﬂuence of the Society
has been further extended during the year by the appointment
of thirty-six additional Special Agents.

Six new drinking-fountains for man and beast were erected
last year, at points throughout the city Where most needed.

Changes have been occasioned in the Board of‘ Managers by
the election of Mr. Joel B. Erhardt as Vice-President, the resig-
nation of Mr. Wm. H. Parsons, and the election of Messrs.
Horace W. Carpentier, Wm. H. Baldwin, Jr., and Frederick G.
Bourne as members of the Board.

The roll of members of the Society was enlarged in 1902 by
the election of three hundred and ﬁfty-seven new members—the
largest increase in any one year in the Society’s existence.

The Obituary Record, printed elsewhere in this report, contains
the names of twenty-two members, whose loss the Society has
been called on to mourn during the year.

 

 




 

I9

Following is a summary of the work accomplished during the
year 1902 :

Arrests and Prosecutions ........................... 520
Animals Suspended from Labor ..................... 4,339
Horses, mules, and other large animals, disabled past

recovery, humanely destroyed ................. 3,804
Small animals, homeless or disabled past recovery,

humanely destroyed ......................... 90,794
Disabled horses and other large animals removed from

the streets in ambulances ........... . ......... 509
Cases Investigated ................................. 53,093

JOHN MASON KNOX,
Secretary.

 




 

REPORT OF THE TREASURER.

 

NEW YORK, January I, 1903.

To The American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals:

The Treasurer begs leave to submit the following report for
the year ending December 31, 1902, showing a Cash Balance
on hand of $550.95.

Respectfully,

JOHN MASON KNOX,
Treasurer.

 




 

22

JOHN MASON KNox, Treasurer, in account with THE AMERICAN
CURRENT INCOME AND EXPENDITURES FOR

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

DR,

T0 Cash balance, Dec. 31, 1901 . . . . . . . . . . $2,274 78

” Bequests: James Simons . . . . . . . . $300 00

T hos. H. Gantley . . . . . . 190 00

Henry W. Maxwell . . . . . . 5,000 00

A. F. Braidich . . . . . . . . 9,625 00

E. A. Hammond . . . . . . 28,400 00

Lyman W. Case . . . . . . . 72 00

Theodore G. Weil . . . . . . 237 50

Elizabeth M. Dorsey . . . . . 4,611 30

Ernest Schattky . . . . . . . 316 66
—-—-—-— 48.752 46
“ Members’ Dues and General Donations . . . . . . 19,039 50
“Fines. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4,97695
“ Rentals, Dividends, Interest, Licenses, etc. . . . . . 70,647 39
$145,691 08
We, the undersigned, have examined the foregoing accounts
of Cruelty to Animals, and have veriﬁed the same by the

 

 

 




 

23

SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY 'ro ANIMALS.
THE YEAR ENDING DECEMBER 31, 1902.

 

CR.

By Disbursements from January 1, 1902, to date: General
Maintenance, including Light, Fuel, Postage, Sal-

aries, etc. . . . . .$29,o73 16

" Equipment and Maintenance of New York Shelter . 30,291 85
Brooklyn “ . 15.749 30

Richmond “ . 5,020 19

“ Brooklyn Ofﬁce: Maintenance . . . . . . 7,750 13

“ Ambulance House, New York: Maintenance, including
Feed, Food, and Medicine for Homeless and Aban- ,
doned Animals . . . . 420 80
“ Ambulance House, Brooklyn: Maintenance, including
Feed, Food, and Medicine for Homeless and Aban-

doned Animals. . . . . 822 22
" Repairs to Real Estate, Rent, Interest, Taxes, and In-

surance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12,686, 91
“ Legal Expenses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4,945 00
“ Fountain Account . . . . . . . . . . . . . 196 12
“ Humane Literature . . . . . . . . 5,010 57
“ Stationery, Printing, Annual Report, etc. . . . . . 2,074 47
“ Ullmann Estate: Mrs. Thayer . . . . . . . : . . 700 00
“ Young Defenders’ League . . . . . . . . . . 109 06
“ Library Account . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 153 66
“ Lecture Fund. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 214 27
“ Temporary Loan Paid . . . . . . . 4,000 00
“ Payment on Account Mortgage on Real Estate . . . 25,000 00
“ Furniture and Fixture Account . . . . . . . . 922 42
" Cash balance, Dec. 31, 1902 . . . . . . . . . . 550 95

$145,691 08

 

 

of the Treasurer of The American Society for the Prevention
Society’s books and vouchers.
WILLIAM F AHN ESTOCK,

GORDON KNOX BELL, }Aua’z'tz'ng Commzttee.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

REPORT OF THE SUPERINTENDENT.

 

The work accomplished by the Special Agents of the So-
ciety during the past year in mitigating animal suffering and
enforcing the humane laws of the State can be but brieﬂy
referred to in this report. Hence individual reference to
special cases where abuse to helpless animals has been pre-
vented at risk of personal violence must be omitted.

“Judging from what one sees almost daily when passing
your headquarters,” said a distinguished clergyman, “the
civilizing work which your Society represents is planted in
good soil. To extend sympathy and assistance to suffering
animals will ere long come to 'be regarded as a religious
duty.”

Many incidents could be related in which children of tender
age have shown their regard for suffering animals, such as
dogs, cats, birds, etc., but the following will serve to illus-
trate:

A little girl on her way to school saw two boys torment-
ing a cat that had taken refuge between a barrel and the
doorway of a house in the course of erection. With the
boys was a ﬁerce bulldog, which was doing its utmost to
reach the frightened cat, while the boys were assisting to
drive the animal from its place of refuge. The girl taking
in the situation, at ﬁrst sought to persuade the boys to call
off the dog and let the cat escape, but they jeered and threat-
ened to set the dog on her. Reaching in, the girl gently
pulled the cat from its hiding-place, and with it in her arms
faced the dog and boys, saying to the latter, “ Now touch us, if
you dare!” By this time the little humanitarian had sev-

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

26

Many complaints fail of remedy owing to complainants
omitting to furnish deﬁnite information as to nature of of—
fense, where committed, and other details necessary for an
intelligent investigation. Many cases have been abandoned
on account of the unwillingness of witnesses to testify at the
trial of an offender. .

Several horses belonging to truckmen and expressmen
have been poisoned out of revenge for some fancied per-
sonal grievance or business rivalry. There is a foreign ele—
ment of our population which does not hesitate to destroy
animal life, if by so doing it can best a business rival or
injure an enemy. It is even suspected that a secret organi-
zation exists, of which a member can be hired to administer
the poison, which is usually done while the animal is feed—
ing. The detectives of the Society have labored diligently
to discover the leaders and operators of the gang, with vary-
ing success, owing to fear on the part of the owner of the
horse killed, or because he has been promised ﬁnancial assist—
ance. Several persons have been prosecuted, but at the
trial numerous perjured witnesses were brought by the de—
fendants to swear to an alibi. So audaciously was this done
in a recent trial, that the presiding judge, when discuSsing
the case, said in substance, “ There is no doubt that much of
the testimony on the part of the defense is perjured, and wit-
nesses for the people have been inﬂuenced not to tell the
truth.” ,

Finally a poisoner was caught in the act, yet that did not
discourage his accomplices from making an attempt to prove
an alibi, but the Society’s evidence was conclusive, and the
poisoner was convicted and sentenced to be imprisoned in
the penitentiary for one year.

STAB LES

In addition to their daily routine duty, the Agents of the
Society have inspected many so-called stables where horses

 




 

 

 

 

DISTRIBU'I‘ING HORSE HATS AT HEADQUARTERS

 




 

W‘Sz 'ON NOLLHDEISOHJ aw JSGIHHV

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

29

and mules are housed after a hard day’s work. Many of
these places are small, ill-ventilated sheds or underground
cellars. Unexpected visits after nightfall disclosed many
sad instances of willful neglect on the part of drivers to care
for the tired beasts of burden. Horses have been found un-
harnessed in narrow stalls, without food or drink, and without
bedding, and this after having been worked from early morn
till after sundown. Summary proceedings were taken in such
cases against driver and owner, but in every instance the
animals were ﬁrst properly attended to.

It is just as essential for a night patrol for the protection
of animals, as it is for the protection of human life and prop-
erty. Business of one kind or another is constantly being
carried on, and it is fair to presume that ten per cent. of our
equine population is employed from sundown to daybreak
the year round. But with the small force of Agents at pres-
ent, it is impossible to adequately do justice to the ever—in-
creasing obligations imposed upon the Society by the laws
of the State relating to animal protection, augmented by ex-
tension of territory and enlarged population.

GLANDERS AND FARCY

These diseases, fatal alike to man and beast, were quite-
prevalent for a time, but owing to prompt measures being
taken by the Society and the veterinary surgeon of the Board
' of Health the spread of the disease was prevented. Several
unscrupulous horse dealers were convicted and severely pun-
ished for selling horses having glanders or other contagious
diseases. In every instance animals found diseased are
humanely destroyed, and stables, stalls, and harness are either
destroyed or subjected to a thorough course of disinfectants.

LIVE-STO CK YARDS

iAgents have daily inspected the cattle, sheep, and other
animals brought to the several stock yards, as well as to the

 




 

 

|
l

i

 

 

 

1

Hull
1‘“
1
will

1 Am
‘ l

W

 

 

30

abattoirs and on vessels for shipment to foreign countries,
and everything has been done to insure humane treatment
of such animals. This part of our work requires close at-
tention, which is given, thereby making it necessary to tem-
porarily omit other duties.

CANALS

A thorough inspection of the horses and mules employed
on the several canals of the State was made at the height of
the towing season by Agents from the Headquarters of the
Society, and it is gratifying to report that but one single
arrest was made for driving a team of mules having sore
breasts. The Agents found the towing animals in better
condition than ever before, and a disposition on the part of
owners and drivers to treat their live stock with more kind-
ness and consideration than heretofore.

DOG FIGHTING AND COCK FIGHTING

Promoters of these so-called sports have been kept under
surveillance, yet in spite of our vigilance have succeeded in
indulging their brutal propensity on two occasions in places
remote from prompt ofﬁcial interference. Several contem-
plated ﬁghts have been prevented and the aiders and abet-
tors dispersed.

OVERLOADIN G

The suﬁ‘ering inﬂicted upon horses by overloading is the
worst phase of cruelty, and is aggravated when imposed upon
animals that are in poor physical condition. A driver who,
for the sake of economizing time or space, piles 'his vehicle
with merchandise regardless of the 'horses’ strength should
be punished to the full extent of the law, but, strange to say,

 

 




 

éééxi.
.zaisw... A
.rAaﬂﬂ .. \

 

 

55mg 38.
.Mo an. 9:.

 

 

 

zoeow >zwcr>z§ mow Em. aizmwowgﬁoz 2) 3;; >2E>5

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

‘3" v2. mg.

(1 n4 ,
pr. N a?!“ ..

 

 

 

 

. / . ylb“ L7
s ‘ F v r A. x \ >
u 3 4/ >
OHJ/ \

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

34

people unable to pay for medicine have been treated free of
charge by the Society and its veterinary surgeon.

INCIDENTAL

Places of amusement, hack stands, markets, sales-stables,
ferries, race tracks, menageries, excavations, and all places
where animals are employed have been visited from time to
time, and nothing has been omitted to insure humane treat-
ment of the animals. Several theatrical animal trainers and
performers have been warned against harsh treatment of
dogs and other animals, and it was found necessary to con-
ﬁscate whips and other instruments used during perform-

ances.

SPECIAL AGENTS

Reports from our Special, Agents resident throughout the
State are most satisfactory. The knowledge that there is
within call an ofﬁcial empowered to enforce the laws for the
protection of animals has a restraining inﬂuence on those
cruelly inclined, and much suffering to helpless creatures is
thereby prevented. The wretched condition of horses here—
tofore used at many summer resorts has improved, owing
to summary action taken by humane people refusing to en—
gage such for pleasure driving. Owners of stage coaches
and other vehicles realize that in order to secure patronage
they must show a proper regard for the physical condition
of their horses, and cruel treatment of their animals by
drivers will not be tolerated by their patrons. Farmers liv-
ing long distances from town centers have been made to
understand that cattle, cows, and all live stock must not be
neglected, and that proper shelter must be provided for them
during the winter season. Horses and cattle in a few in-
stances were found unsheltered, but prompt action was taken

 




 

35

for their relief. Pigeon shoots, turkey shoots, likewise fox,
and other animal hunts contrary to law have been prevented.

BROOKLYN DEPARTMENT

The number of Special Agents assigned to the Borough
of Brooklyn and adjacent localities is inadequate to prop-
erly fulﬁll all the requirements imposed upon them, yet under
the excellent management of Inspector Clark much has been
accomplished.

In conclusion, .I desire to express appreciation for the
warm interest and support given to the Society and its hu-
mane work by the Justices of the Courts of Special Sessions,
the District Attorney, and Judges of the higher criminal
.courts, likewise for the many courtesies extended to our
representatives by the ofﬁcials of all the departments of the
city government; also to commend to favorable notice the
uniformed Special Agents for their neat appearance and strict
attention to their several duties.

Respectfully submitted,
CHARLES H. HANKINSON,

Superintendent.

 




 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

v

THE FOLLOWING ARE A FEW OF THE CASES
PROSECUTED DURING THE YEAR 1902, SE-
LECTED WITH SOME VIEW TO SHOWING
THE DIFFERENT PHASES OF CRUELTY
WITH WHICH THE SOCIETY HAS TO CON-
TEND:

BEFORE the Court of Special Sessions, First Division, Max Green-
feder was charged with having poisoned to death a black mare belong-
ing to a rival expressman. The evidence at the trial showed that the
animal was poisoned by a mixture of strychnine and meal made up
in the form of a ball. It had been given the horse while it was har-
nessed to a truck standing before the owner’s residence. Eye-witnesses
testiﬁed that they saw the defendant give the horse the poisonous
substance. The contents of the stomach were subsequently analyzed
by the chief chemist of the Board of Health, and were found to contain
the poison in large quantities. The testimony of the People’s wit-
nesses appeared to be conclusive, but the defendant produced
persons who” swore positively that at the time it was alleged
he had been seen to give the horse the poisonous substance, he
was at a place three miles distant, buying merchandise. One of the
People’s witnesses ﬁnally testiﬁed that he was not positive whether
it was Greenfed'er or some one else whom he had seen give the horse
the poison. Presiding Justice Holbrook became so disgusted at what
he termed “ perjured testimony,” that he said if it were proved to the
satisfaction of the court which of the witnesses gave the perjured
testimony, he would certainly 'hold the perjurers to await the action
of the grand jury. Owing to the character of the testimony, the court
was obliged to give the defendant the beneﬁt of the doubt, and to
acquit him.

LOUIS THRON, of New Rochelle, N. Y., was urging a weak and
lame horse to pull a heavily loaded wagon. A sympathetic lady re-
quested him either to give the horse a reasonable rest, or to unharness
it and take it back to the stable. Thron, however, refused, and the
horse was compelled to pull the load. An agent of the Society hap-
pened along and arrested the defendant, who was subsequently ar—

 

  

 




 

 

 

 

 

,

ARREST AND PROSECUTION No. 25,256. RUPTURE OF SUSPENSORY LIGAMENT

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

bah-«an.» WM. 4 «m Nova/”Mp5

4

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ARREST.AND PRO

SECUTTON No.2ggﬁ

 

 

 

 




 

39

raigned before the Court of Special Sessions. Upon conviction of
the charge of cruelty to animals, Thron was sentenced to pay a ﬁne of
. thirty—ﬁve dollars, with the alternative of ﬁfteen days in the city prison.

GEORGE READ, of Bath, N. Y., was arraigned before Justice of the
Peace S. G. Lewis, on the charge of having neglected to supply food
and drink to a horse belonging to him. It was alleged that the horse,
when found by the complaining witness, was starved almost to death.
The defendant, who pleaded guilty to the charge of cruelty, was
sentenced to pay a ﬁne of twenty—ﬁve dollars, or, in default of pay—
ment, to work for thirty days in the chain gang.

INEz C. YOUMANS, of Butternuts, N. Y., was sentenced to pay a
ﬁne and costs of the prosecution, amounting in the aggregate to
twenty-seven dollars and eighty-ﬁve cents. The woman’s offense was
that of having neglected to provide the necessary sustenance for
several animals belonging to her that she kept on a farm.

UPON the plea of guilty, Louis Bauer, of Phillipsburg, N. Y., was
ﬁned twenty-ﬁve dollars for keeping a place for the purpose of dog-
ﬁghting. A dog—ﬁght did occur on Bauer’s premises in February
last, at which twenty—ﬁve or more persons were present. James
Ballard and George Churchill, both of Goshen, N. Y., were ﬁned
ten dollars upon the charge of aiding and abetting the said ﬁght.

JACOB VAN ALSTYNE, of Stuyvesant Falls, N. Y., was sentenced
to pay a ﬁne of ﬁve dollars, or be imprisoned for ﬁve days in the
county jail. By Justice Milton M. Hall, the prisoner was convicted
of having left a team of horses under a shed over night inadequately
protected and without food or water. It is stated that the animals
when found were in a most pitiable condition.

FOR having caused James McGrath to drive a horse, with large
sores upon its back, the animal being attached to a loaded ash cart,
Charles Ebbs was sentenced to pay a ﬁne of ten dollars. James
McGrath was also arraigned upon the charge of having committed
the offense, but owing to the conviction of the owner, sentence in the
driver’s case was suspended. The case was tried by the Court of
Special Sessions, First Division, Justice Forker presiding.

WILLIAM J. CANAVAN, an employé of William J. Finn, a veterinary
surgeon of Brooklyn, was arrested for leading a horse, diseased with
glanders, through the public streets. On being arraigned before

 




 

 

 

 

I

.1,
1W .1
w 7:

? Milli:
W131i
2 MW
‘ “W‘jl‘
«

ilzg‘rlhii‘

ll .13
l wﬂitnw.

‘ . ,le

 

 

 

 

 

4o

Magistrate Teale, Canavan stated that ‘he was acting under the orders
of Dr. Finn, who had told him to take the animal to the offal dock to
be destroyed. The wretched horse was, however, so weak that it could
not go beyond the point where it was stopped by the Society’s ofﬁcer.
Upon that statement a warrant for the arrest of Dr. Finn was issued.
He was subsequently arrested, arraigned before the court, and con-
victed of the charge of causing and permitting a glandered horse to
be exposed on the public streets. By the Court of Special Sessions
of the Second Division, Justices Fitzgerald, Forker, and Keady, Finn
was sentenced to pay a ﬁne of $250.

IN the Court of Special Sessions, First Division, Justice Hin-sdale
presiding, John Shaw was charged with *having cruelly beaten a ‘horse
on the head and body with a whip. Several witnesses for the People
testiﬁed that the defendant ’had lost his temper with the horse. There
were numerous marks of the beating upon the animal’s body. As
the defendant had nothing to say in his defense, ‘he was sentenced to
pay a ﬁne of twenty-ﬁve dollars, or be imprisoned for ten days.

BY Justices Fleming, Fitzgerald, and Courtney, of the Court of
Special Sessions, Second Division, William Knapp, of Brooklyn, was
sentenced to pay a ﬁne of ﬁfty dollars or be imprisoned for thirty
days, upon conviction of cruelty to animals. The evidence showed
that the defendant had driven a horse to a licensed vendor’s wagon,
while the animal was in a weak, outworn, and crippled condition. In
addition, the horse was suffering from ﬁstula on the withers. The
ﬁstula was due to a diseased condition of the backbone and caused
great physical pain, which was aggravated by the saddle pressing on
the wound.

ALPHA MORSE, the Society’s special agent at Oxford, N. Y., re-
ported a most distressing case of cruelty to a number of calves, cows,
and other animals on a farm owned by William R. Coe.

“I found,” says the ofﬁcer, “ cows, yearlings, and young calves in
a starving condition. Thirty—four calves, from two to four weeks old,
were dead; forty—ﬁve calves, from three days to six weeks old, lay
dying for want of food; six yearlings and one cow lay dead; While
sixty other cows were weak and emaciated from starvation. In the
barn there were about ﬁve tons of 'hay, with three hundred pounds
of grain.” After attending to the wants of the suffering animals, Mr.
Morse set about to discover who was responsible for the condition of
things, and, after considerable trouble, he learned that Coe—if not
the owner—was at least the custodian of the animals. Coe, therefore,

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

42

AT Fifth Avenue and Fourteenth Street, New York, Louis Cohen
was arrested for driving a horse which was utterly exhausted and unﬁt
for work. While being led to a near-by stable the animal fell. It was
then taken to a Veterinary Hospital in an ambulance. Cohen, who
was held in $100 bail, was tried by Justices Hinsdale, Mayer, and
McKean, of the Court of Special Sessions, First Division;but although
Cohen pleaded guilty, sentence in his case was suspended, and a war-
rant was issued for the arrest of Brodsky, owner of the horse. Cohen
was warned by Justice Hinsdale that if he failed to appear against lhis
employer he would be rearrested. Brodsky was found guilty of hav-
ing caused and permitted the horse to be used. He was sentenced
to pay the ﬁne of ﬁfty dollars, with the alternative of ﬁfteen days in
the city prison.

ON complaint of a citizen, Police Ofﬁcer Maurice F. Walsh, of the
Eighth Precinct, arrested Joseph O’Connor, of Brooklyn, for cruelty
to animals in having driven from Centre Street, Brooklyn, to Reade
Street, Manhattan, a feeble and emaciated horse, totally unﬁt for work
of any kind, and which had fallen in the streets from sheer exhaustion.
Brutally forced to its feet by O’Connor, the horse again fell. A second
time, the driver with the help of bystanders, urged the wretched crea-
ture to stand, and when a second time it dropped to the ground re-
fusing to attempt to rise, O’Connor beat it with a plank so that one
of the witnesses to the cruelty at once had the man arrested. The
Society sent an ofﬁcer to destroy the horse with merciful promptness.
O’Connor was then arraigned before City Magistrate Charles A.
Flammer, of the First District Court, and held for trial by the Court
of Special Sessions, First Division. Justices McKean, Olmsted, and
Holbrook found the prisoner guilty and sentenced him to pay the ﬁne
of thirty-ﬁve dollars, with the alternative of ﬁfteen days in jail.

BY the Court ofSpecial Sessions, First Division, Justices Wyatt,
Hinsdale, and Holbrook presiding, James Harbour was sentenced
to pay the ﬁne of ﬁfty dollars, or to twenty days’ imprisonment. Har-
bour was arraigned on the charge of cruelty to animals in having,
while intoxicated, run his horse into a motor wagon, and when the
horse fell from the collision having kicked the poor creature brutally,
also heating it about the head with a trace buckle. Harbour denied
the charge of cruelty, but admitted that the horse had fallen because
of his carelessness. After hearing the testimony of the complaining
witness, however, the court promptly found the defendant guilty.

FOR driving a team of horses that were suffering from sores, and
were otherwise in a feeble condition, John H. Grosberger was sen-

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

mOC‘ﬁ: MZU Om mOOHm‘HwNwJ‘ ZCmmCZ

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SOCIETY’S MUSEUM, NORTH END

 




 

 

45

tenced by Justices Holbrook, Hinsdale, and Jacobs, of the Court of-
Special Sessions, First Division, to pay the ﬁne of twenty-ﬁve dollars,
or to be imprisoned for ten days. One of the horses was suffering from
what is called “ rotten heel” of the off foot, and blood was running.
Naturally, the animal was extremely lame. The other horse, also, was
suffering from a painful wound on the knee.

THE Society was called upon a few days ago mercifully to end the
existence of one of the remarkable horses of this city. Jim, of
Engine 59, Riverdale, ‘has for the past ﬁve years been retired from
active service on a pension and been kept at pasture. His record is
the pride of his human comrades. For twenty-one years Jim never
once failed in the performance of 'his duty. As well as any of his
human associates he knew the alarm, and at the sound of the gong
was at his post, ready for instant action. In appearance, Jim was a
superb roan, with a ﬁne arched neck and an eye of quick intelligence.
Always gentle and lovable in disposition, he was a great pet with the
Fire Department. The roan had reached the ripe age of twenty-seven
years when it was found necessary to end the life which had become a
burden to the noble old horse.

ON the charge of cruelty to animals, Giuseppe Sentein was arrested
for using a twitch attached to a horse’s lip in a cruel manner. The
twitch is an instrument used by horse clippers, and is usually of home
manufacture. It consists of a stick of wood, on the end of which is
a piece of rope, fastened in the shape of a loop. That loop is put
around the upper lip with a vise-like grasp. While having his horse
under control,the defendant so pulled and jerked at the twitch as to
lacerate the animal’s mouth, causing extreme pain. Sentein was con-
victed, and was sentenced to pay ﬁfty dollars ﬁne, or to be imprisoned
for twenty days.

FOR having compelled a lame :horse to haul an express wagon from
Newark to the city of New York, Charles Canﬁeld, of Newark, N..J.,
was sentenced to pay the ﬁne of twenty-ﬁve dollars, or to be im-,
prisoned for ten days. Canﬁeld appeared before presiding Justice Hol—
brook, of the Court of Special Sessions, First Division. A veterinary.
surgeon testiﬁed that the horse was so lame it could scarcely stand up
after being released from the wagon. - .

ON the charge of exposing a glandered horse by giving away-the
animal after the nature of its disease had been revealed by a veterinary
surgeon, Frank Schaﬂ‘ner was arrested by the Society. The surgeon

 




 

H .
NH .
“ l
.H l
.1, 1
l.‘ l
1‘ ‘. ‘

l .H .
l. I
.‘ . l
.w‘ w
‘H

.. M l

‘ j’w M

f “ l'll‘

 

WM;
1H
‘ llil j
9 ll} “‘

a; 1
Wm ‘

 

 

 

 

 

 

46

had advised that the horse be promptly destroyed. Instead of comply-
ing with the law which forbids the selling or exposing of a glandered
horse, Schaffner evaded it by presenting the horse to an ignorant friend
who might, all unconsciously, “have exposed human beings as well as
other horses to the dread contagion. Arraigned before City Magis-
trate Alfred E. Steers, of the First District Court of Brooklyn, Schaff-
ner was paroled for trial by the Court of Special Sessions.

FOR driving a horse to a hansom cab, while the animal was in a
starving condition, with sores scattered over its body, James Brown
was arrested by Police Ofﬁcer Philip Clifford, of the Twenty-second
Precinct. By the Court of Special Sessions, First Division, Justices
Wyatt, McKean, and Mayer presiding, Brown was ﬁned ten dollars.

FOR selling a glandered horse to Charles Kreitzer of Brooklyn,
William Caesar, also of Brooklyn, was arrested by an ofﬁcer of the
Society and arraigned before Magistrate Ingersoll, 0f the First Dis-
trict Court, who held him in $300 bail to answer. As the disease of
glanders is highly contagious both to man and beast, selling, or expos—
ing for sale, a horse in that condition is a direct violation of the law.
Caesar was tried before Justices Forker, Keady, and Courtney, 0f the
Court of Special Sessions, Second Division, and was sentenced to pay
the ﬁne of $100, with the alternative of ninety days’ imprisonment.

FOR allowing his employé, William Eberhard, to drive a gray
gelding before a heavily loaded truck, when the horse had a large sore
under the collar, Jacob Ra'hle, owner of the animal, was arraigned
before Magistrate W. J. Kramer, at the Third District Court of Brook-
lyn, by whom he was held in $200 bail to answer. Rahle was tried
and convicted in the Court of Special Sessions, Second Division.
Justices Keady, Fitzgerald, and Fleming presiding, and was sentenced
to pay the ﬁne of ﬁfty dollars.

FOR leaving a horse tied to a post at the roadside for several days
without food or water, Andrew Paye, of Pond Eddy, Sullivan County,
N. Y., was arrested on the charge of A. E. Van Tyle, of Pond Eddy,
and was arraigned before Police Justice W. B. McMillen. The horse
was taken and cared for by the Society’s agent. The prisoner, who
pleaded guilty, was ﬁned ﬁfteen dollars.

ON the complaint of Joh‘anna Turner, Paulo Dole was arrested for
cruelty to animals in throwing into an ash-barrel two living puppies,
which 'he covered with as'hes, leaving them to die. The prisoner was

 

 




 

47

arraigned before Magistrate Joseph Pool, at the Seventh District
Court, and was held in $500 bail to answer. Subsequently, the case
was called before the Court of Special Sessions, First Division, Jus-
tices Wyatt, McKean, and Mayer presiding. As the complaining wit-
ness failed to appear at the trial, the prisoner was acquitted. Only
a few minutes after Dole had dumped the pups into the barrel they
were 'humanely destroyed by Johanna Turner, who, on the impulse
of her indignation, at once caused the man’s arrest, Many persons
whose sympathies are momentarily stirred by witnessing an act of
cruelty will not go to the personal inconvenience of complying with the
law in appearing against the offender. In the case of Dole, however,
the prisoner had the opportunity to see the possible consequences of
his inhuman act, so there is little danger that he will be wantonly cruel
to an animal again.

FOR cruelty to an elephant in prodding it several times in the face
and body with a four-pronged pitchfork, which caused painful wounds,
William Alf was arrested by Roundsman Clark, of the Sixty-ninth
Precinct, Coney Island. Alf was arraigned before Magistrate Voor-
hes, of the Eighth District Court, who held him for the Court of
Special Sessions in $500 bail. It seems that the elephant was particu—
larly remarkable for its gentle and affectionate disposition, and had
been a great attraction for the children at Coney Island in the summer
months. The defendant was employed as a man—of—aleork by the
owner of the elephant. On receiving instructions to transfer the
elephant from one part of the building in which it was housed to
another, Alf abused the animal for having playfully rubbed against
him, attempting to entwine him with its trunk.

FOR driving a poor and emaciated ‘horse, over thirty years old,
and with a sore on its back measuring two 'by four inches, John Brun-
ner of Sheeps‘head Bay, N. Y., was arrested by an ofﬁcer of the
Society in the neighborhood of the Society’s Headquarters on
Madison Avenue, New York. Brunner, it was learned, had driven
from Coney Island to Manhattan for the purpose of getting a
load of furniture, which he meant to take back to Coney Island
with him. The horse was at once suspended from labor and.
taken to a veterinary hospital, where it was photographed to show
its condition before being humanely destroyed. Arraigned ‘before
Magistrate J. M. Deuel, of the Second District Court, Brunner was
held in $100 bail to answer. By Justices Wyatt, McKean, and Mayer,
of the Court of Special Sessions, First Division, the prisoner was sub-
sequently sentenced to pay the ﬁne of ten dollars, or to three days in

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

48

the City Prison, owing to the mitigating circumstances of his having
a wife and several children dependent on him for support.

FOR permitting his driver, Daniel Hogan, to use a 'horse which was
suffering with a raw sore on its back and one on the nigh side of the
breast, both of the sores unprotected from the chaﬁng of the harness,
Simon Sullivan, of Yonkers, N. Y., was arrested by Ferdinand Garn-
jost, the Society’s Special Agent at that place. Arraigned before
Justice William C. Kellogg, of the City Court at Yonkers, Sullivan
was paroled for a day, when the case was tried and Sullivan was
sentenced to pay the ﬁne of ten dollars, or to be imprisoned for
ten days. The amount of the ﬁne was changed to ﬁve dollars, which
the defendant paid, serving ﬁve days in jail. '

ANDREW D. MCPHEE, proprietor of McPhee’s Pavilion, “Uncle
Tom’s Cabin ” Company, was arrested at Attica, N. Y., on the charge
of cruelty to animals. His troupe, which travels by highway, came
from Wyoming to Attica during the night. A gray horSe was tied
by a rope around its neck to the rear of one of the wagons. Though
the animal was lame and exhausted with its long tramp, the driver
hurried it along, fairly dragging the wretched horse by the neck.
Where the rope 'had worn off the skin there was a raw sore. When the
party stopped the horse stood on three legs, and when a start was
made the horse was dragged nearly to the ground before it could get
under way. The Rev. A. E. Brigden, agent of the Society, made a
complaint before Justice Beane, and a warrant was issued for McPhee,
Who was taken before the justice by Deputy Sheriff Whitney. McPhee
pleaded guilty to the charge, and was sentenced to pay a ﬁne of ten
dollars. He paid the ﬁne, and the ‘horse was then humanely put out of
its misery, being utterly unﬁt for future use.

BY a Special Agent of the Society, Daniel Marfettini was arrested
on the charge of cruelty to animals in driving a lame, weak, emaciated
horse to a junk cart. The man had been previously arrested on a
similar charge for driving the same ‘horse which ‘he had 'been told to
have mercifully destroyed, the horse being too wretched to recover its
strength. At the trial, the Society offered in evidence a photograph
of the horse taken at the time of the ﬁrst arrest. Because of the disre-
gard of the Society’s earlier warning, Marfettini was sentenced by the
Court of Special Sessions, Justices Wyatt, Holbrook, and Hinsdale
presiding, to pay a ﬁne of ﬁfty dollars, with the alternative of twenty
days in prison.

   
 
 
 
 
   
  

 

 

 




 

096‘96 'ON NOLLH‘DFISOHJ (INV JJSGDDIV

 

«um/rm. w

 

 

1W...” I» 1,, “5.,“

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

SI

THOMAS KELLY, driver of U. S. Mail Wagon N o. 46, was arrested
by an ofﬁcer of the Society on the charge of driving a horse which the
ofﬁcer found lame from a suppurating corn in the nigh fore foot, and
with a sore on each side of the back, under the saddle. Arraigned
before Magistrate Joseph M. Deuel, at the Second District Court, the
man was held in $100 bail to answer. To the magistrate, Kelly stated
that he had been obliged to use the horse; for he had been so ordered
by the stable foreman, John Blacker. A warrant, then, was issued for
Blacker; but, when tried before Justices Wyatt, McKean, and Mayer,
of the Court of Special Sessions, First Division, Kelly went back on
his statement and Blacker was acquitted. To show the condition of
the horse at the time of the arrest, a photograph was submitted to the
Court. Kelly was sentenced to pay the ﬁne of twenty-ﬁve dollars, with'
the alternative of imprisonment. The ﬁne was paid.

AN attempt was made to poison a number of horses owned by
Morris Gurian, of Brooklyn, New York. On the complaint of S010-
mon Bartnowsky, Mike Simon was arrested for promising the poison
and offering Bartnowsky the sum of twenty—ﬁve dollars to kill the
horses. Simon was arraigned before Justice E. G. Higginbot‘ham, at
the Fifth District Court, and held for $200 bail to answer. By the
Court of Special Sessions, Second Division, Justices Fleming, Keady,
and Courtney presiding, the defendant was ﬁnally acquitted, it being
impossible to prove that he was actually the person who had given
poison to the animals.

THE Society’s Special Agent for the Borough of Richmond arrested
George Weiss at New Brighton, Staten Island, for driving a horse with
a sore on the left shoulder, unprotected from the collar. When ar—
raigned before Justice of the Peace Jo'hn Croak, at the New Brighton,
S. 1., District Court, Weiss pleaded guilty, and was sent at once to the
Court of Special Sessions, Second Division, where he was ﬁned ten
dollars by Justices Forker, Fleming, and Fitzgerald.

CONSTABLE MARTIN CHAMBERLAIN, of Prattsville, N. Y., arrested
Rufus Van Aken on the charge of cruelty to animals in neglecting
to provide food for a gray mare over twelve years of age. Van
Aken went off for several days, leaving the horse tied in a barn with
no one to care for her. Special Agent Decker of the Society took the
animal into his stable. Van Aken was arraigned before Justice of the
Peace Lyman Alberta, and pleaded guilty. He was sentenced to pay
a ﬁne of ten dollars, with the alternative of twenty days’ imprisonment.
In default of payment of part of the ﬁne, he would be imprisoned for

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

52

one day for every dollar remaining unpaid. The defendant paid the
ﬁne to the Sheriff of Greene County, at Catskill, N. Y.

AT Gloversville, N. Y., Charles Herrick was arrested by the So-
ciety’sSpecial Agent for driving a horse while the animal was suffering
from sores on both sides of the shoulder, unprotected from the intoler-
able chaﬁng of the harness. The horse was being urged to pull a cart-
load of coal. When arraigned before Acting Recorder Johnson,
at the Gloversville District Court, the defendant was found guilty,
and was sentenced to pay the ﬁne of ﬁve dollars.

ON the complaint of a citizen, Joseph Creevey, of Brooklyn, was
arrested for cruelly beating a horse. The complainant testiﬁed that he
had repeatedly urged the prisoner to stop the beating, but that the
man had replied with offensive oaths, abusing the horse more and
more brutally. The complainant then called to «his assistance, Police
Ofﬁcer James Middlemass, of the Fifty-ﬁrst Precinct, to arrest the
man. When the harness was removed from the animal’s back, a
horrible wound was uncovered over which the saddle had been press-
ing, evidently causing intense pain. Creevey was held for trial by the
Court of Special Sessions, after having had his bail ﬁxed at $300, by
Magistrate Alfred E. Steers, of the Seventh District Court. Justices
Keady, Courtney, and Forker, of the Court of Special Sessions, Second
Division, found the offender guilty, sentencing him to pay the ﬁne of
twenty dollars, or to be imprisoned for twenty days.

 

 




 

 

mﬂ

 

1‘"
km:
or!
‘R L‘ ANIMALS

 

 

INBW YORK '

OUR ANIMAL FRIENDS

AN ILLUSTRATED MONTHLY MAGAZINE

THE ORGAN OF

The American Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals.

 

CONTAINING ORIGINAL AND INSTRUCTIVE ARTICLES OF INTEREST TO ALL ANIMAL OWNERS

HEADQUARTERS NOTES COURT NOTES
THE LIBRARY THE VETERINARIAN

YOUNG PEOPLE’S MUSEUM, ETC.

Also Serial and Short Stories and Interesting Miscellany by Well-KnownWriters

SUBSCRIPTION, ONE DOLLAR PER YEAR

Published at the Headquarters of the Society, Madison Avenue and ‘
Twenty-sixth Street, New York

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

MANUAL OF

KINDNESS TO ANIMALS.

For use in Schools, Sunday-schools and
Families.

 

“Is well calculated to engage the child’s attention, and teach
it to be humane to all living creatures.”—-—]Vew York Triozme.

“ It aims to teach the utility of animals as an argument against
their torture, and the preface suggests that individuals are cruel

‘ through want of thought, rather than want of heart.’ ”
—1Vezo Y oré Herald.

“ Admirably constructed to impress on the youthful mind kind
treatment to all the brute creation.”—-—Spirit of t/ze Times.

“ Perusal of its pages warrants us in predicting for it a most
useful career.”——- Tﬂe Rider and Driver.

“ It is a useful and suggestive book for children, and it con-
tains some instruction which a large number of adults are much
in need of.”-—2Vew York World.

“ The little manual should ﬁnd lodging in the living-room of
all families where there are young children, or where horses,
cats, dogs, rabbits, birds, cows, poultry, gold-ﬁsh or other
animals are kept for use or amusement.”—-—P/zi[adelp/zzo Ledger.

 

Sample copies, four cents each. I

 

Published at Headquarters of the Society, Madison
Ave. and 26th St., New York

 

 




 

 

 

DRINKING FOUNTAINS FOR MAN AND
BEAST.

There is great need for additional drinking fountains fOr man.
and beast. The Society has already erected many and is increas-
ing the number as fast as its funds will allow. A most appropri~
ate donation could be made by friends of animals, by the erection
of fountains under the direction of the Society, and bearing the
names of the donors. The cost of erecting a fountain similar to
that represented in the above illustration, including plate with
name of donor, is two to three hundred dollars, according to-

location.

 

 

 

 

 




 

SOCIETIES OF NORTH AND SOUTH
AMERICA.

SOCIETIES IN NORTH AND SOUTH AMERICA ORGANIZED AND INCOR-
PORATED SINCE THE FORMATION OF THE AMERICAN SOCIETY
FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS-THE
PARENT SOCIETY—AND IN CORRESPONDENCE WITH IT.

NEW YORK.

THE AMERICAN SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF
CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.

Incorporated A pril IO, 1866.
HEADQUARTERS:

Madison Ave. and 26th S t., NEW YORK.
JOHN P. HAINES, President. JOHN MASON KNOX, Sec.
BROOKLYN OFFICE:

I3 W illonghby Street.
F. O. CLARK, Inspector.

ALABAMA.
Mobile Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

16 S onth Royal Street, Mobile.

W. A. ALEXANDER, Pres. MAJOR E. R. QUATTLEBAUM,
Secretary.

Birmingham Humane Society.
715 Eighteenth Street, Birmingham.
REV. SAMUEL ULLMAN, Pres. DR. A. N. BALLARD, Secretary.

ARIZONA.
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals of Tucson, Ariz.

Tucson.
WM. HERRING, President. ROCHESTER FORD, Sec.

 

 




 

 

59

Santa Cruz County Humane Society.
Santa Cruz.

DR. C. L. ANDERSON, Pres. MISS ANNA DIXON, Sec.
Fresno Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Fresno.

DR. G. A. HARE, President. WM. HARVEY, Secretary.
Marin County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
S ansalito.

A. SYLVA, President. DR. C. E. CASE, Secretary.
COLORADO.

Colorado Humane Society.
State House, Denver.

WALTER S. CHEESMAN, E. K. WHITEHEAD, Secretary.
President.

El Paso County Branch of the Colorado Humane Society.
Colorado S prings.
WM. F. SLOCUM, President. F. B. HILL, Secretary.

CONNECTICUT.

The Connecticut Humane Society.
Hartford.
REV. WM. DE LOSS LOVE, CHANDLER E. MILLER, Sec.

President.
The New Haven Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
New H aven.
PROF. WM. H. BREWER, Pres. EDWIN A. SMITH, Secretary.
Meriden Humane Society.

M eriden. ,
MRS. MARY J. ROGERS, Pres. MRS. FRANCES W. HAM-
MOND, Secretary.
DELAWARE.

Delaware Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
606 Market Street, Wilmington.

DR. EVAN G. SHORTLIDGE, WILLARD H. PORTER, Sec.
President.

 




  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   
 
 
 
     
 

6o

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
The Washington Humane Society.
24 Warder Bldg, Washington, D. C. 4
CHESTER A. SNOW, Pres. HERBERT E. MARTYN, Sec.

FLORIDA.
St. Augustine Humane Society.
5 t. Augustine.

WARD G. FOSTER, President. LOUIS LARSEN,‘ Secretary.
The Jacksonville Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Jacksonville.

0. PIERRE HAVENS, Pres. B. H. CHADWICK, Secretary.
The Pensacola Humane Society.
Pensacola.
THOS. C. WATSON, President. D. HALE WILSON, Sec.
Hillsborough County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals.

Tampa.
W. G. BART HOLOMEW, Pres. HENRY L. CRANE, Secretary.

 

GEORGIA.
Georgia Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
I McIntosh Street, Augusta.
HON. HENRY B. KING, Pres. S. R. CRAIG, Secretary.

Atlanta Humane Society.
. Atlanta.
I. F. BARCLAY, President. ORVILLE H. H'ALL, Sec.
Brunswick Humane Society.

Brunswick.
WM. C. DOWN IN G, President. MRS. I. E. DU BIGNON, Sec.

 

 

ILLINOIS.
The Illinois Humane Society.
560 Wabash Avenue, Chicago.
JOHN G. SHORTALL. Pres.

  

 

 

   

, Secretary.

 

 




 

 

HZ‘—;m7HC_h CT 74.)< /.C2_h Rwy/HECTn/ZCE HARM/479“? FCCB. 25/4 <02? xvawCFPZCG
:OCmm EOCmG

 

#4:! all}?

 

 

>§mdb>20m WOW ‘HHAm/meOWHHPHJHOZ Ow; €WHO<OHW O>WWHWW 10W Cmm HZ mzmw-
mgmrrr >ZHZ>FM QMZOMN O>mMm

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

I .

INTERIOR VIEWS, NEW YORK SHELTER FOR ANIMALS

SHOWING MAIN CORRIDOR, HEATING AND COOKING APPARATUS, AND GAS TANK (OPEN AND CLOSED) FOR THE HUMANE
DESTRUCTION OF SMALL ANIMALS. (See page 174.)

 

 




thee page 1/4.)

DESTRUCTION Ul" SNIAIJ, ANNUALS.

 

63

Winnebago County Branch of The Illinois Humane Society.

Rockford.
WM. H. FITCH, M.D., Pres. MRS. ROBERT REW, Secretary.
The Quincy Humane Society.
Quincy.

H. P. WALTON, President. LYMAN MCCARL, Secretary.
The Shelby County Branch of The Illinois Humane Society.
Shelbyw'lle.

DR. T. L. CATHERWOOD, MRS. H. J. HAMLIN, Secretary.
President.

Champaign Branch of The Illinois Humane Society.
Champaign.
HENRY T REVETT, President. A. H. BRYAN, Secretary.

The Humane Society of Springﬁeld.
Springﬁeld.
FRANK W. TRACY, President. HOWARD K. WEBER, Sec.
Jacksonville Humane Society.
, Jacksonville.

A. C. WADSWORTH, Pres. WM. PATERSON, Sec. pro Item.
The Jerseyville Humane Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals and Children.
ferseyw'lle.

MISS ADA C. DAVENPORT, DR. H. R. GLEDHILL, Sec.

President.
Harvard Branch of The Illinois Humane Society.
Harvard.
W. C. WELLINGTON, Pres. MRS. W. C. WELLINGTON,
Secretary.
United States Humane Society.
I3 East M can Street, Danw’lle.

JOHN W. HALLS, President. I. N. KINNEY, Secretary.

The Whitehall Humane Society.
Whitehall.
FRANCIS FOWLER, Pres. H. O. TUNISON, Secretary.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

64

INDIANA.
The Indiana Humane Society.
42 Lombard Building, Indianapolis.
HORACE MCKAY, President. A. C. ELSTER, Secretary.
Montgomery County Humane Society for the Prevention 0:!
Cruelty to Animals and Children.
C rawfordsville.

GEORGE W. PAUL, President. A. H. BRADEN, Secretary.
The Evansville Humane Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Women, Children, and Animals.

315 Upper Fourth Street, Evansville.

S. S. SCANTLIN, President. WILL WARREN, Secretary.

Fort Wayne Humane Society.

82 Clinton Street, Fort Wayne.
GEO. H. WILSON, President. C. E. ARCHER, Secretary.

The South Bend Humane Society.
S onth Bend.

DR. S. L. KILMER, President. H. A. PERSHING, Secretary.

Terre Haute Humane Society.

Terre H ante.
DR. E. E. GLOVER, President. DR. E. B. MCALLISTER, Sec.
Muncie Humane Society.
M nncie.

DR. T. J. BOWLES, President. W. R. MOORE, Secretary.

The Elkhart Humane Society.

206 Main Street, Elkhart.

JAMES H. STATE, President. LOUIS M. SIMPSON, Sec.

Wayne County Humane Society.

Richmond.
J. EDGAR ILIFF, President. MRS. FRANK M. CLARK, Sec.
The Humane Society of Peru, Ind.
Pern.

JOHN L. MILLER, President. MRS. M. PUTERBAUGH, Sec.

 




 

65

Kokomo Humane Society.

Kokomo.
E. N. COLE, President. MISS MINNIE A. TRUE-
BLOOD, Secretary.
IOWA.

The Iowa Humane Society.
Des M nines.
JAMES CALLANAN, Pres. ELIZ. DICKSON JONES, See.

The Sioux City Humane Society.
Sioux City.
REV. J. O. D. POWERS, Pres. EDWARD CR-OMWELL, Sec.

 

KANSAS.
The Kansas Humane Society.
W tchita.
J. M. KNAPP, President. MRS. E. G. ROBERTS, Sec.

The Foster Humane Society.

Topeka.
REV. ABRAM WYMAN, Pres. SAM RAD'GES, Secretary.

KENTUCKY.
Kentucky Humane Society for Prevention of Cruelty.
Masonic Temple, 411 West Green Street, Louisville.
JOHN H. LEATHERS, Pres. MISS BERT'A WILSON, Sec.

Henderson Humane Society.
Henderson.
, President. INGRAM CROCKETT, Sec.

 

Franklin County Humane Society.
Frankfort. .
LOUIS MANGAN, President. , Secretary.
The Kenton County Humane Society.
915 Scott Street, Cow'ngton.
H. A. SCHROETTER, Pres. MRS. FRANCES c. MANSER,

Secretary.

 

 

 

 

 




 

67

Taunton Humane Society.
I8 Clinton Street, Tannton.
RgrvogHOS. EDW. POTTER- MRS. THOS. J. TAYLOR, Sec.

President.

The Lowell Humane Society.
71 Central Street, Lowell.

FRED’K A. FISHER, Pres. MRS. GEO. F. RICHARDSON,
Secretary.

The Brockton Humane Society.
Brockton.

HON. L. E. CHAMBERLAIN, GEO. H. GOULD, Secretary.
President.

—_

MICHIGAN.
Michigan Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Detroit. ‘
HON. T. W. PALMER, Pres. O. B. SCOTT, Secretary.

Kent County Humane Society.
Grand Rapids.
REV.J.HERRMAN RANDALL, CLAUDE HAMILTON, Sec.
President.

Kalamazoo Humane Society.

Kalamazoo.
SAMUEL FOLZ, President. CARL G. FLIENSTUCK, Sec.
Goldwater Humane Society.
‘ Coldwater.
HON. C. G. LUCE, President. OTTO E. LUEDDERS, Sec.
MINNESOTA.

The Minnesota Society for the Prevention of Cruelty.
Relief Society Building, 141 East Ninth Street, St. Paul.
DANIEL R. NOYES, President. J. S. FUGATE, Secretary.

Minneapolis Humane Society.
513 Bank of C onnneree Building, Minneapolis.
J. C. MCINTYRE, President. VERA E. BEAN, Acting Sec.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

68

Duluth Humane Society.
211 Trust Building, Duluth.
REV. A. W. RYAN, President. H. W. MERCHANT, Secretary.

St. Paul Society for Prevention of Cruelty.
Chamber of Commerce Building, St. Paul.
W. L. WILSON, President. MISS ALICE S. MILLARD,

Secretary.
Steele County Humane Society.
Owatonna.

B. S. COOK, President. » DR. W. AMOS, Secretary.

The Winona Humane Society.

Winona.
HON. H. L. BUCK, President. MRS. E. W. WILLIAMS, Sec.

St. Cloud Humane Society.
St. Cloud.
WM. B. MITCHELL, President. J. I. DONOHUE, Secretary.

The Red Wing Humane Society.
Red Wing.
A. J. MEACHAM, President. DR. F. W. DIMM‘ITT, Secretary.

Rochester Humane Society.
Rochester.

REV. J. F. TAINTOR, Pres. MISS ELLA DAVIS, Secretary.

Stillwater Humane Society.

- Stillwater.
FRANK T. WILSON, Secretary.

MISSISSIPPI.
The Mississippi Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Natchez.
WM. B. ABBOTT, President. ALEX. H. PEALE, Secretary.

MISSOURI.
The Humane Society of Missouri.
511 Commercial Building, St. Louis.
H. N. DAVIS, President. JOHN H. HOLMES, Secretary.

G. E. CLARK, President.

   
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
     
 
 
 
    
 
 
 
 
   

 




 

7%

21w

69

The Woman’s Humane Society of Missouri.
3401 Washington Avenue, St. Louis.
MRS. T. G. COMSTOCK, Pres. MISS AGN US BRADY, See.

The Humane Society of Kansas City, Mo.
C ity Hall, Kansas C ity.
HON. EDWIN R. WEEKS, F. M. FURGASON, Secretary.
President.
The Humane Society of St. Joseph, 1110.
Central Police Station, St. Joseph.
HUSTON WYETH, President. EM'IL KUENSTER, Secretary.

The Humane Society of Sedalia, Mo.
S edalia,
H. T. WILLIAMS, President. LEE MONTGOMERY, Sec.

NEBRASKA.

The Nebraska Humane Society.
15 Commercial National Bank Building, Omaha.
, President. H. S. MANN, Secretary.

 

The South Omaha Humane Society.

South Omaha.

COL. J. L. MARTIN, President. MISS GERTIE PARKHURST,
Secretary.

NEW HAMPSHIRE.

New Hampshire Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
I Market Street, Portsmouth.
JOHN J. PICKERING, Pres. D'R. JAMES R. MAY, Secretary.

The Keene Humane Society.
Keene.
HORATIO COLONY, Pres. MRS. JOSEPH MADDEN, Sec.

| i

i
. y?
m. I, t}
‘ l 1 M 1‘
« "’v
1 “
v ‘ \u
‘H‘
. .1
I . ‘
A"
a
m
l I
I
i
x.
‘

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   
  
  
  
  
    
     
    
  

70

NEW JERSEY.

The New Jersey Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
507 Prudential Building, Newark.
G. W. THORNE, President. COL. E. S. EDWARDS, Sec.

The Hudson County District Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals.

Grand and Warren Streets, Jersey City.

GEORGE M. MCCARTHY, EDWARD H. WHITNEY, Sec.
President.

Cape May County, N. J., District Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals.

C ape May.

 

 

 

, President. , Secretary.

The Vineland Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Vineland.
REV. R. B. MOORE, President. REV. R. B. MOORE, Secretary.

The Morris County Branch of The New Jersey Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

M orristown.

DR. E. FAYETTE SMITH, MIss LOUISE SHELTON, Sec.

President.
The Camden Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Camden.
WILLIAM J. COOPER, Pres. ABEL SMITH, Secretary.

The Bergen County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
. Animals.

Hackensack.
R. M. HART, President.

 

, Secretary.
The Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals of Union
County, N. J.

Elizabeth.
J. C. COLE, Secretary.

E. P. EDWARDS, President,

  

 




 

 

71

Perth Amboy Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Perth Amboy.
MISS LOUISE BENTON, Pres. MRS. FLORENCE KITCHEL,

Secretary.

Cranford, Union County, Branch of The New Jersey Society for
the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

C ranford .

GEORGE A. MORRISON, ALFRED H. MILLER, Sec.
President.

Passaic County District Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals.

121 Ellison Street, Paterson.
ARTHUR W. BISHOP, Pres. REV. NESHAM B. MACKEN-

Sec.

’

Somerset County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Somerw'lle.
JOSEPH FITZGA, President. JOHN VOORHEES, Secretary.
Princeton Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Princeton.

GEO. McLEAN HARPER, sts K. c. ROCKWOOD, Sec.
President.

Ridgewood Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Ridge'wood.
MRS. C. C. HARRISON, Pres. MRS. F. J. WALTON, Secretary.

Humane Association of New Jersey.
Newark.
MRS. J. N. SAYRE, President. MISS GRACE B. HALSEY, Sec.

 

NEW YORK.
WESTCHESTER COUNTY.

The Ossining Branch of The American Society for the Prevention
of Cruelty to Animals.
Incorporated March 12, 1883.
Ossz'ning.

CLINTON S. ARNOLD, Pres. CHARLOTTE DE KOVEN
JEN KS, ’ Secretary.

 




   
  
 
 
  
   
 
  
   
  
 
   
  
  
    
  
 
   
  
  
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

72

MONROE COUNTY.

The Humane Society of Rochester, N. Y., for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals.

Incorporated August 9, 1888.
723 Powers Block, Rochester.
J. B. Y. WARNER, President. sts SARA HYATT, Sec.

ERIE COUNTY.
The Erie County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Incorporated September 21, 1888. ‘
39 Erie Street, Buffalo. .
DEWITT CLINTON, President. J. C. HALL, Secretary.

DUTCHESS COUNTY.

The Poughkeepsie Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals.

Incorporated May 18, I889.
45 Market Street, Poughkeepsie.
, President. CHARLES F. COSSUM, Sec.

ORANGE COUNTY.
The N ewburg Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Incorporated July 22, 1889.
N ewburg.
GEORGE W. PETERS, Pres. A. E. LAYMAN, Secretary.

OSWEGO COUNTY.

Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals of Oswego City,
N. Y.

Incorporated September 23, 1889.
Doolittle House, Oswego.
CHAS. H. BOND, President. MRS. G. M. GARDENIER, Sec.

Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals of the Village of
. Fulton, N. Y.

Incorporated November 17, 1891.
Fulton.
THOMAS HUNTER, President. MRS. EDNA A. MOORE, Sec.

 

  

 




 

 

H

; 1‘1
~

i ‘ i. ‘

m .

i \ l

m ‘ \

‘l‘i . ' x \

M1“ ‘ “‘1‘ w
‘ i

.. 1 ‘

H l

H“ w ‘

1H ‘ ‘

w ‘

 

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

74

ALBANY COUNTY.
The Mohawk and Hudson River Humane Society.
Incorporated March 8, 1892.

Eagle and H oward Streets, Albany.
DR. WM. O. STILLMAN, Pres. NATHANIEL J. WALKER,

Secretary.
NIAGARA COUNTY.

The Niagara County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals.
Incorporated May 24, I895.

Lockport.

MISS ALICE E. CROCKER,

F. J. SAWYER, President.
Secretary.

CORTLAND COUNTY.
The Cortland County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals.
Incorporated April 17, 1895.

Cortland.
C. P. WALRAD, President. ENOS E. MELLON, Secretary.

ONEIDA COUNTY.
The Stevens Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals of
Rome, N. Y.
Incorporated March 31, 1896.
Rome.
DR. C. OLIN ZIMMERMANN, WELLINGTON W. BASSET,
President. Secretary.

CAYUGA COUNTY.
The Cayuga County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals.
Incorporated October 26, I896.

. Auburn.
F. C. LADD, President. GEO. A. BREWSTER, Sec.

TOMPKINS COUNTY.

The Tompkins County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals.

Incorporated March 18, 1902.
Ithaca.
WM. HAZLITT SMITH, Pres. MISS ELIZABETH COLLINS,

Secretary.

   
 
 
 
 
 
  
 

 

  

 




 

 

75

NORTH CAROLINA.

The North Carolina Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals.

17 Paragon Building, Asheville.

HANFORD N. LOCKWOOD, GEO. L. ERD'MAN, Secretary.
President.

North Carolina Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children
and Animals.

Wilmington.
ALEX. S. HEIDE, President. P. HEINSBERGER, Secretary.

OHIO.
The Ohio Humane Society.
24 East Ninth Street, Cincinnati.
MRS. MARY T. ARMOR, Pres. MISS CECILIA RITTER, See.
Cleveland Humane Society.
Cleveland.
GEN. JAMES BARNETT, Pres. SAMUEL D. DODGE, See.
The Canton Humane Society.
Frazer Block, Canton.
W. W. CLARK, President. CHARLES R. FRAZER, See.
Humane Society of the City of Columbus, Ohio. ‘
Columbus.
FRANK C. HUBBARD, Pres. F. R. HOOVER, Secretary.
Toledo Humane Society.
603 North 5 t. Clair Street, Toledo.

HON. JAMES M. BROWN, W. W. H. SMITH, Secretary.
President.

The Trumbull County Humane Society.
Warren.
GEORGE P. HUNTER, Pres. MARY C. IDDINGS, Secretary.
Montgomery County Humane Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Children and Animals.

Dayton.
DR. J. C. PATTERSON, Pres. JAMES STUART, Secretary.

 




76

Athens Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

 

 

Athens.
L. A. KOONS,‘ President. MRS. A. J. FRAME, Secretary.
The Erie County Humane Society.
Sandusky.
JOHN C. ZOLLINGER, Pres. MRS. FANNY F. EVERETT,
Secretary.
Scioto County Humane Society.
Portsmouth.
E. E. EWING, President. HARRY BALL, Secretary.
‘ ’J ‘1’ i Ashtabula County Humane Society.
i Ashtabnla.
1 V w. M. STRADER, President. MRS. w. M. PENFIELD, Sec.
” W i ‘1 The Chagrin Falls Humane Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
' ' to Children and Animals.

 

 

C hagrz'n Falls.
A. H. WILLIAMS, President. C. E. RYDER, Secretary.

Pomeroy Branch Humane Society.
Pomeroy.
ARTEMUS WILLIAMS, Pres. MRS. H. J. EWING, Secretary.

 

 

The Youngstown Humane Society.
Youngstown.

REV. S. R. FRAZIER, President. MISS LILLIAN F. PIERCE,
Secretary.

Yellow Springs Humane Society.

 

Yellow Springs.
CHARLES HAMILTON, Pres. CHARLES E. ADAMS, Sec.

 

 

 

Seneca County Humane Society.

Titlin.
DR. E. J. MCCOLLUM, Pres. IRVIN N. REX, Secretary.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

77

The Chardon Humane Society.
C hardon.
L. C. COWLES, President. M. L. MAYNARD, Secretary.

Huron County Humane Society.
Norwalk.
REV. CHAS. S. AVES, Pres. MIss MARY A.'STEWART,

Secretary.
The Humane Society of New Lexington.
New Lexington.
REV. HENRY BEEMAN, Pres. MRS. C. MARTZOLFF, See.

The Lima. Branch of The Ohio Humane Society.
Lima.
R. C. EASTMAN, President. MRS. E. B. SEREFF, Secretary.
OREGON.
The Oregon Humane Society.
207 Second Street, Portland.
CHAS. H. WOODARD, Pres. W. T. SHANAHAN, Secretary.
PENNSYLVANIA.

The Pennsylvania Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals.

1627 C hestnnt Street, Philadelphia.
COL. M. RICHARDS MUCKLE, M. V. B. DAVIS, Secretary.
President.

The Women’s Pennsylvania Society for the Prevention of. Cruelty
to Animals.

1601 C hestnnt Street, Philadelphia.
MRS. R. P. WHITE, President. MISS ELIZABETH SOMERS,
Secretary.

Lancaster County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals.

Lancaster.
D. S. BURSK, President. JOHN L. MARTIN, Secretary.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

78

The York County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Y ark.
CHAS. A. KLINEFELTER, H. W. MCCALL, Secretary.
President.

Western Pennsylvania Humane Society.
440 Sixth A venue, Pittsburg.

JOSEPH G. WALTER, Pres. MISS FRANCES R. HENRY,
Secretary.

The Chester County Auxiliary of the Women’s Branch of The
Pennsylvania Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

West Chester.
MRS. S. C. MASSEY, President. WILLIAM S. KIRK, Secretary.

Berks County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
536 Penn Street, Reading.
JOHN D. MISHLER, President. , Secretary.

 

Lycoming County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals.

W illiamsport.

MRS. C. LA RUE MUNSON, MRS. JAMES P. HERDIC, Sec.
President.

Lackawanna Branch of The Pennsylvania Society for the Preven-
tion of Cruelty to Animals.
Scranton.

JOHN M. KEMMERER, C. S. SEAMANS, Secretary.
President.

Northwestern Pennsylvania Humane Society.

Erie.
HON. F. F. ADAMS, President. HON. W. B. F LICKIN GER, Sec.

Luzerne County Humane Association for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Children and Animals.

W ilkesbarre.
JOHN N. CONYNGHAM, HAROLD D. DEEMER, Sec.

President.

 

 




 

  

79

The Central Pennsylvania Humane Society.

Altoona.
MRS. ELIZABETH O. STRAT- MISS SIDNEY COLESTOCK,
TAN, President. Secretary.

——

RHODE ISLAND.
Rhode Island Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
29 Exchange Street, Providence.
S. S. DURFEE, President. JAMES N. SMITH, Secretary.

_—

SOUTH CAROLINA.

The South Carolina Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals.

Charleston.
J. ALWYN BALL, President. RICHMOND PINCKNEY,

Secretary.

Richland County, South Carolina, Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals.

Columbia.
, President. D. R. FLENNIKEN, Secretary.

 

The Greenville Branch of The South Carolina Society for the Pre-
vention of Cruelty to Animals.

Greenville.

DR. H. M. PERRY, President. FRANK B. MCBEE, Secretary.
The Spartanburg Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Spartanbmg.

J. B. LEE, M.D., President. CHARLES H. HENNRY, Sec.

TENNESSEE.
Tennessee Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals and
Children.

337 Mississippi A venue, M emphis.
GEN. W. J. SMITH, President. M. L. MEACI-IAM, Am; Sec.

  
 
     
   
  
    
  
  
 
   
    
   
   
    
    
  
  
 
 

. i .
,‘u‘ﬁ ‘1“
i I

  




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

80

Chattanooga Humane Society.
- Chattanooga.
W. B. STEPHENS, President. J. C. MCGHEE, Secretary.

Knox County Humane Society.
Knoxville. ,
W. L. TRENT, President. REV. W. H. BATES, Secretary.

Nashville Humane Society.
Nashville.
REV. D. C. KELLEY, President. MAT HOKE, Secretary.

The Madison County Humane Society.
Jackson.
REV. M. A. MATTHEWS, Pres. L. R. GRIFFIN, Secretary.

 

TEXAS.
The Texas Humane Society.
Waco.
ALFRED ABEEL, President. ROBERT J. BROOKS, See.
The Austin Humane Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals.

Austin.
MRS. I. H. EVANS, President. J. E. OLDRIGHT, Secretary.

UTAH.
Utah Humane Society.
Salt Lake City.

DR. T. B. BEATTY, President. J. W. GREENMAN, Secretary.

VERMONT.

The Vermont Humane Society.

Springﬁeld.

GEO. H. WALDRON, Pres. ETHEL S. CLEMANT, Sec.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

82

The Lynchburg Humane Society.

 

 

 

Lynchburg.
P. A. KRISE, President. , SecretarY-
Roanoke Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Roanoke.
J. ALLEN WATTS, President. , Secretary.
WASHINGTON.

Tacoma Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Chamber of Commerce Building, Tacoma.

A. E. LAW, President. HERBERT S. GRIGGS, Sec.
Seattle Humane Society.
Seattle.
MALCOLM C. NA'SON, Pres. MRS. LAURENCE GRON-
LUN D, Secretary.

 

WEST VIRGINIA.
West Virginia Humane Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Children and Animals.

Wheeling.
MRS. G. R. C. ALLEN, Pres. WM. E. GLASSCOCK, Sec.

WISCONSIN.

The Wisconsin Humane Society.
'49 5 Milwaukee Street, Milwaukee.

H. H. JACOBS, President. sts AGNES M. FURLONG,
4 Secretary.

The State Society has Branches at the following places:

Oshkosh, Sheboygan, Port Washington, T omah, Stoughton, Hart-
land, Plymouth, Janesville, Beloit, Green Bay, Ashland, Waukesha,
Delavan, La Crosse, Sturgeon, West Superior, Monroe, Fond du Lac,
Manitowoc, Racine, Berlin, Wausau, Madison, Tomahawk, Marinette,
Antigo, Eau Claire, Hartford, and Columbus.

 

BRITISH NORTH AMERICA.
The Neva Scotia Society for the Prevention of Cruelty.

I6 Herald Bldg, Halifax.
M. C. GRANT, Acting Pres. R. H. MURRAY, Secretary.

 

 




 

83
Hamilton Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Hamilton.

ADAM BROWN, M.P., Pres. LIEUT.-COLONEL HENRY Mc-
LAREN, Secretary.

Kingston Humane Society.
Kingston.
G. J. B. PEN SE, President. J. M. COTTLE, Secretary.

The Canadian Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

189 St. James Street, Montreal.
CHARLES ALEXANDER, GEORGE DURNFORD, Sec.
President. ,
Ottawa Humane Society.
83 St. Peter Street, Ottawa.

MRS. GWYNNE, President. MRS. GEO. E. PERLEY, Sec.
Quebec Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Quebec.
JOHN T. ROSS, President. A. ROBERTSON, Secretary.

New Brunswick Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Ferry Building, Water Street, St. John.

HON. JOHN V. ELLIS, M.P., S. M. WETMORE, Secretary.
President.

Toronto Humane Society.
103 Bay Street, Toronto.
W. R. BROCK, M.P., Pres. MISS DORA SPEARS, Sec.

Fredericton Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Fredericton.
REV. F. PARTRIDGE, D.D., CHARLES A. SAMPSON, Sec.

President.

Moncton Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
M oncton.

GEO. B. WILLETT, President. WILLIAM A. MCDOUGALL,
Secretary.

1“
u .
w
J.

‘JI:
v.
x 1“
w “1,
: , ‘ ‘x‘
i: ii,“ i‘“, “H
\qu a) "1‘:
‘t ‘.
‘ Hm i
., it} i y w
l i i
ll“ 1‘ 3
i , ,
\ i w
H"
‘m
r E‘
l h.
in
i “w
i.“ < H
1 i‘
I” w 1 i
y. . J i
l , . i
i i
. ‘

,,u
51 U,

ii!
i
i

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

84

St. John’s Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
5 t. John’s, Newfoundland.
SIR WM. V. WHITEWAY, Pres. GEO. M. JOHNSON, Secretary.

The Winnipeg Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Winnipeg, Manitoba.
A. F. D. MACGACHAN, Pres. G. W. WINCKLER, Secretary.

Sherbrooke Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Sherbrooke.
HON. HENRY AYLMER, Pres. G. E. BORLASE, Secretary.

Victoria. Branch of the British Columbia Society for the Preven-
tion of Cruelty to Animals.

Victoria, B. C.
CAPT. A. T. DALLAIN, Pres. F. B. KITTO, Hon. Sec.

 

SOUTH AMERICA.

Sociedad Argentina Protectora de los Animales.
C alle Paraguay, 1059, Buenos Ayres, Argentine Republic.

DR. IGNACIO L. ALBARRA- ANDRES EGAN'A, Secretary.
C N, President.

Sociedad Protectora de los Animales.
Rosario de Santa Fe, Argentine Republic.
W. BARNETT, President. W. MACWHIRTER, Secretary.

Sociedad Protectora de los Animales.

Mendoza, Argentine Republic.
MANUEL T. CABRAL, Pres. PASCUAL TELLEMUS, Sec.

Sociedad Protectora de los Animales.

Rio de Ianeiro, Brazil.
A. M. N. GONCALVES, Pres. J. ALBINO DA CRUZ, Sec.

Sociedad Protectora de los Animales en Venezuela.
Caracas, Venezuela.

SENORA ADELAIDE DE ALMEIDA E VASCONCELLOS, Presi-
dent and Secretary.

 

 




85

Sociedad Protectora de los Animales de Montevideo.

Montevideo, Uruguay.

LUIS ALBERTO HERRERA,
Secretary.

WEST INDIES.
Trinidad Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

I

J USTUS CUBILO, President.

Port of Spain, Trinidad.

SIR HUBERT H. E. JEMING—

Secretary.

KATHARINE H. BOURNE,
President.

HAM,

 

BERMUDA.
Bermuda Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Bermuda.

 

CLAUDE W. MCCALLAN, Sec.

HON. T. N. DILL, President.

PORTO RICO.
The Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals of the.

 

District of Ponce.

Ponce.

EDW. L. ZOWE, Secretary.

President.

MANUEL V. DOMENECH,

CUBA.
Sociedad Cubana Protectora de los Animales.

H avana.

 

-GUILLEN,
Secretary

7

REV. J. M. LOPEZ

, President.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SOCIETIES OTHER THAN THOSE OF NORTH AND SOUTH AMERICA.

It will be gratifying to the friends of our cause to learn from the following list of kindred societies that the work
of animal protection has extended to almost every part of the world. Many of these societies are powerful organ-
izations, whose merciful inﬂuences have been felt abroad as well as at home through the dissemination of humane
literature. The Royal Society at London was the ﬁrst in the world. It was organized in 1824, and now has
branches in every considerable city of England.

 

LOCATION. NAME OF SOCIETY. {PRESIDENT. SECRETARY.

 

ALGERIA.
Algiers . .
Bona . . .
Constantine
Oran . . .
Philippeville

AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide .

. -—-— Pinguad.

. of the Dept. of Algiers . Dr. Collardot . .
. . . MISS Faure.

cup;

:GCZengrel
' ' ° ' ' ' I}. G. Riviére.

p.630.

<<sss
3-; La

<d<d<i

. . . . . .A. Abrahams.

Brisbane
Melbourne
Sydney .

AUSTRIA-HUNGARY.

Agram .
Budapest
Carinthia
Czernowitz
Graz . .
Innsbruck
Karlstadt
Kaschau
Klagenfurt

o<m
I c:
<0...

.. . . . . . . . :Walter H. Barnes . . Richard F. Woodcraft.
. Prot. A. . . . . . . . . . . . Thomas Latham.
. . N. S. W. . P. N. Trebeck . . ._ F. Montague Rothery.

1'

9-4
'23

94:24.35
mﬁ><

Josip Medved.

. Prof. Chas. Monostori.
. Lorenz Washietl.

. L. L. Strzalkowski.

. Karl Berger.

. Edmund Kustin.

. Josip Absatz.

. Adalb Pater.

. Alfred Kohlert.

. Josip Muzler . . .
.Isidor Maday de Moros

.atAgram .
.F.F.Oert1. . . . .

<1<1

.. of 'Ca'rinthia
: Baronwon .Mensshengen.
Albert Moné . . .

.Julia Ivanc1c . . . . .

Eranzjo's. .Oertl

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

AUSTRIA-HUNGARY,C’d
Krakau . .
Leitmeritz
Lemberg
Linz

Mahr Cstrau
Prague

Przemysl
Rzeszow
Temesvar
Trieste

Vienna

Zagreb
Zara

BELGIUM.
Antwerp .
Brussels .
Ghent
Liege
Louvain .
Malines .
Namur
Verviers .

DENMARK.
Copenhagen
EGYPT.

Alexandria .
Cairo .

. Alexandria S.

. Antwerp S. Prot. of A. .
. Royal S. Prot. of A. of Brussels

rsS. for Suppress’ n of C. to A.

, { Denmark S. P. C. .A and six}

branches

 

. Cairo S.

P. C. A.
P. C. A. .

: Feliks. de Ptavv1c.Ptavv1cl.<1
. Sylvester Felschimoosky
. Florian Gartner.

. Dr. Joseph von Kopff

Mathias Novotny .
.Hubert von Freyberger .

. D. M. Parlagi Marton

.D.r Vigini . . .
S{Du Arthur Holland}
von Griindenfels.

. Prof. E. Kamenar .
. G. Testa .

.Julien Koch . . .
. Alphonse Solvyns .

. Alphonse Gulikers
. Victor Hénot

.J. Mastboom .

. Baron Fallon

Jules Ruhl

F. Chr. Lernbcke .

. S. E. Ismail Pacha Sabri

 

. Mohammed Maher Pasha

 

. Bronislaus Gustawicz.
. Eduard Schmiedt.

. Dr. Jozef Limbach.

. Ottokar Beer.

. Richard Hartmann.

. Josef Hudl.
. Joh. Haralewicz.

. Graef Janos.
. N. Salvari.

E. Alex. Sturrn.

.Drag. Leskovac.
. Charles Inghini.

87

. Adolphe van den Bosch.
. Alban Roels.

.H. Louveigne.

. T. Beaufort.

E. van den Eynde.

. Leon Diercxnes.
. --— Greuse.
. A. Andr1n.

. P. Jorgensen.

. A. von Dumreicher.
. T. B. Hohler.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ENGLAND R ISPCA[ db h H. R. H P 1

oya . . . . an ranc es rince 0
London ’ ' { throughout England] . .l l Wales, K..G. . . .} John Colam.
FRANCE.

B1arr1tz . . S. P. A. . . E. Ardoin . . .M. Vail.

Cannes . 5.13 A of Cannes . Charles Goudard- Malan . Ch. Rocoffort.
Dunk1rk . Dunkirk S. P. C. A. . Alfred Dumont . . . . . Emile Pouleur.
Havre . Havre S. Prot. A. . J. de Coninck . . . . . G. Serrurier.
Lyons. . . Prot. A. of Lyons Louis Pugin . . . . . . Charles Lebrun.
Marsellles P. C. A. . . .Charles Gounelle . . . . Edouard Rabaud.
Mentone P. C. A. of Mentone . . . . Hubert A. Freeman . . . M. Gioan.

Monaco P. A. . . . . . . Mrs. S. H. Adlam . . . . Capt. Polli.

N1ce Prot. A. . . . . . . . Sir James Harris . . . . L. J. Jerome.
Paris . Prot. of A. . . . . . . A. Uhrich. . . . Gabrielle Lamguet.
Pau . Prot. A. at Pau . . Dr. H. Draper Speakman . Hubert A. Freeman.
Rouen P. C. A. . . . . . . Henry Paris . . . . Gaston Hamel.

mmmmmmmm

GERMANY.
Aachen . . .
Altona . . .
Aschaffenburg .
Augsburg . .
Baden-Baden
Bautzen . .
Bayreuth
Berlin .
Bernstadt
Bonn . .
Bremen
Breslau .
Bromberg
Brunswick
Cassel .

..A . . . Baron Janssen . . . . . J. Bernarts, Jr.
.and Birds . . . Dr. Greve . . . . . . .— Trenkner.
.A. of Aschaﬁenburg . .F. H. Deubler.
and B. . . . . . . Jacobus Reimers . . .Chr. Flemer.
. . . Maj. -.Gen D. von Parseva1.——— Weinig.
at Bautzen . . . H. Wetzlich. . . . Dr. Hellig.
. . . . —— Preu . . . . . . . Heinr. Heuschmann.
.C. A. . . General Koring. . . Major Wagener.
. . . F. Stahr . . . . . . Neumann.
A. . . . . —— Bongartz . . . . . Dr. Korten.
. . . . . . . . Ad. Brinkman . . . . . Dr. Kuhlmann.
.P. Huch . . . . . . . C. Junge.
—— Nolte . . . . Rev. sauberlich.
Dr. Rudolf Blasius . . .W. Koch. .
Rev. Carl Wilhelm Peter . Martin Bettmg.

U<Q<<<<m
mmmmmmm'“

.2:
D4:
0

m,¢£
<°Uio°<i<t<i

O
O
O
O

 

 

"Cl
0 Q . . y a .0 u _' I a o .
mmmmmmmmmmmmmmm

'8

U)

U)

(6

U

“5

-<3

L5
min-19.113411:

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

GERMANY—Continued.

Giistrow . . . .
Halle . .
Hamburg .
Hanover

Heide .
Hilchenbach.
Hirschberg
Homburg .
Itzehoe . .
Jena . . .
Karlsruhe .
Kattowitz .
Kiel . .
Koenigsberg
Landshut . .
Langenschwalbach
Lauban . .
Laugensalza
Leipzig

Liegnitz .
Liibeck . . .
Ludwigshafen
Liineburg .
Malchin

Mainz

Meissen
Miilheim .
Munich .

Miinster .

Neisse . .
N eubrandenburg

O I (d
mmﬂi‘.

044444444004U44oogo4004443340
mmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmgmmmmmmg“’ c149;
mmmwmmmwmmmwmmnwmqwmwmmmww~mm

 

. Dr. Fritzsche.

.Dr. Tramhaijn . .

. Prof. C. F. Schulz .

. Dr. Dammann .

. Dr. Lammers .

. H. Feldmann .

.. Carl Wagner .

. Heinr. Méckel .

. J. H. Raasche

. Dr. R6hrig.

. F. Kaeﬁein .

. Rabbi Cohn . .

. Franz Schuck

. Gen. Brausewetter. .

—— von Fuchs Bimbachs

—— Schutt . . . .

Hermann Wende.

. . . ——-Fischer .

Leipzig . . Dr. Rob. Klee .

Liegnitz . Dr. Otto Giithling . .

A. . . . . . .Dr. F. L. G. Wichmann.
. . . . . . .Sebast. Ledere . . .

. H. Reinecke. .

. Gustav J. Hamdorf

.Prof. Schlenger .

. Dr. C. F. Schaufuss

. —— Schmidt . . .

Count Houlin . . .

Prof. Dr. H. Landois .

. -—— Pohlis . . . .
.Rev. Mr. Steinfiihrer .

.in Giistrow
of Halle
P. A. . .

.in Hanover

<<E<
902331
mme

.in Kiel.
.in Koenig.sberg

<1<§ :3

in Langenschwalbach

O O O I O

.of
of
P.

44m4-<4

thalian S. P. Wild Birds l
Domestic Fowls and A.

 

.A. of Neubrandenburg

. Mauermeister Hensel.
. Dr. Ph. Bauer.

. Wilhelm Stromeyer.

. —-—- Sierds.

. Carl Kraemer.

. R. Schwandt.
.vHeinr. Schudt.

. M. A. Brodersen.

. K. Becker.

. —- Riidiger.

. Rev. Kloppenburg.
. R. O. Hasperg.

. -—- Saurer.

. —— Anacker.

. —— Hanke.

. Max Rabe.

. Heinrich Reinisch.
. F. F. Lund.

. Charles Weingart.
. Aug. L6fﬂer.

. E. Thiel.

. Dr. L. Schaum.

. B. Zeidler.

. Ernst Schiirmann.
. M. Bunhard.

. Aug. Bollmann.
. Rev. Hirschberger.

 

. A. Mahn.

 




    
   

GERMANY—Continued.
Neumiinster
Neustrelitz . .
Nordlingen
Nuremberg
Offenbach . .
Oﬁenburg . .
Oldenburg .
Osnabruck
Passau . .
Pforzheim

Pirna

Ploen .

Posen . .
Remscheid .
Regensburg
Ribnitz

Rostock .
Saalfeld
Schleswig .
Schwerin
Sensburg .
S-iegen .
Solingen .
Stargard .
Stettin
Strassburg i. E.
Straubing . . . .
Strehlen . .
Striegan . .
Stuttgart . . .
Warstein . . .
Wiesbaden .

 

 

DJ smmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm

eo<0444<<4o<44000<04434444<4<

iitz S. P. C. A.
.OA. in Nuremberg

of Passau

o-<i

of Pirna

O O O

and B. . .
in Ribnitz
of Rostock

of Schleswig

22%;.43...

<2
a etc
:1
CG
(:1

C. A. in Wiirtemberg

<

. C. A. of Wiesbaden

. C O C O O

 

. E. Messtorﬂ' .

. B. Praefcke

. Heinrich Hermann .
. Gottlieb Held . . .
. Dr. Volckmar

Prof. Franz Dosch:
Wilh. Kahtmann
— Boker . .

. J. Spahl . . . .
. —— Pﬁsterer

. Julius Lutsche.

. H. Foerster

. Rudolf Schulz

. Gottl. Arns

. L. E. Meyer . .
. Ludwig Dolberg
. Ferd. Matz

. Dr. Mauer.

. Dr. T. S-teen

. Rev. Mr. Florcke

Rud. Hoch .
Prof. Schirlitz

—- Ziihl . . .
Rev. Ed. Schneider
———- Steinwender

A. Egglhuber .
Otto Ulm .

. August Friedrich
. Count von Zeppelin

—- Kropz

. Count A. von Bothiner

O

   
  

. — Kock.

. M. Reckow.

. J. Kellermann.

. Francis Monniger.
. Ernst Renk.

. Dr. Mannheimer.

— Kahler.

. Joseph Alteneder.
. — Berner.

. O. Kaven.

. Ed. Reissmiiller.

. —— Paﬁ‘rath.

. A. Geitner.

. H. Wilken.

. Heinrich Teutmann._

. Dr. T. Steen.

— Moller.

. —— Dorn.
. Dr. Hermann Bellebaum.
. ———- Reinhardt.

—— Bottge.

. Rev. Ed. Schneider.
. —— Kertzer.
. G. Dechner.

Rev. A. Bojanowski.

. ———- Schikor.
. Johannes Seybold.
. —— Wiesmeyer.

 

. Count A. von Bothmer.

 




 

 

 

 

“l
W

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

GERMANY—Continued.

Wiirzburg . . .
Wupperthal
Zabern .
Zittau .
Ziirich .
ZWickau .

HOLLAND.
Alkmaar
Amsterdam
Arnheim .
Baarn . .
Brada . .
Dordrecht . .
Haarlem . . .
Hague, The ,.
Hertogenbosch .
Hook of Holland
Maastricht .
Rotterdam
Utrecht . .

INDIA.
Ahmedabad
Bangalore
Bombay .
Calcutta
Howrah .
Kandy (Ceylon)
Kurrachee . .
Madras . . .

Madras . . .

. S.
So

I u 0 . c .‘H u u 0
mmmmmm<mmZm

 

.oi Zabern
.of Ziirich.

940494949404
wmmmmm

<2.<§.

.'P. A. . .
..A of Arnheim

of . Dordrecht

Div.

«£40404 éﬁodédddfo
mammmmmm

O O

G

<2<2 §<2
gdmﬁm

.S..P.A.. . ..
.S...PA

.The BombayS. P. C. A
.Calcutta S. P. C. A. . .
.Howrah S. P. C. A. .
.S..PA.........

S. P.A .

.MadrasS.P.C..A . .

S. for Prot. of A. from Vivi-
section and CruelTreatment

a —'—— Gasser I o
. ——-— Thlemer .

. —-——— Zemmrich

. B J. Pol enaar

. Baron H. A. Elias .
. J. P. Hooft . .
. A. P. Sheltus

. H. Hoyer .

. A. von der Voort

. F. X. Verheijen
. P. Dregmans .
. P. H. H. Routs . . .
.H.deBie. . . . . .D.
. J. Meyers . . .

. Dr. J. Pollen. . .
.Hon. Mr. Justice J. Stanley
.F...WDuke,IC.S. ..

. Major Wadeson . . .
. Hon. H. T. Boddam . .

. Mr. Eichelsbacher.
Ferd. Schumacher.
. B. M. Goettgens.

. —-— Peschel.

. H. Fischer-Sigwart.
——-—- Birkigt.

Dr. Bauerlein .
H. Espenschied.

P. H. Wolff

K. A. Cohen Stuart . C. J. Reiziger.

. C. F. J. Hanedves.
. M. F. W. Van Dulm.
. J. C. van der Veen.
. —— Van Vooren.

. S. Schotel.

. A. Beernink.

. L. V. van Rossern.

. L. G. P. Max.

. J. C. Jansen.

. K. Vonk.

van Stolk.

Van der Lip.

R. A. Klerck .

. —— Manibkai.

. Gen. J. F. Fischer.
.K. M. Shroﬁ.

G. W. Lees.

.R. A. Donnithorne.
. W. Goonetilleke.

. F. E. Panthakey.

. A. E. Rencontre.

. V. Ranganatham Nayudu.

Col. D. Rohertson: .

M. Kuppus . . . .

 

 

 




INDIA—Continued.
Mandalay . . . . S. P. A ,,,,,,,,,,, H. D. R. Tworney . . . Count Calderari.
Rangoon (Burma) . S. P. A ........... Rt.Rev.J.M.Strachan, M.D. W. Alan Leonard.
Singapore . . . . S. P. C. A. ........ . .......... St. Vincent Down.

IRELAND. . [Boag.
Belfast ..... The Ulster S. P. C. A ..... Sir Wm. Q. Ewart,_Bart. . W. H. Patterson & Robt.
Cork ...... Cork S. P. C. A ....... Alexander McOstriph, J.P. John C. Newsom.
Dublin ..... Dublin S. P. C. A ...... Rt. Hon. Lord Ardilaun - George Ryall.
Kilkenny . . . . S. P. A ........... . . . . .. ...... Thomas Kough.
Waterford . . . . Waterford S. P. C. A ..... The Lord Bishop of Cashel. Robert McCurdy.

Wexford ..... County Wexford s. P. c. A. . . {Ragga-.53“ Maui“? } Thomas Harpur.
ITALY.

Bologna ..... The Emiliana S. of Zoophily . . Angela Diana. Costetti . . F. P. Gamberini.
Florence . . . . S. Prot. of A. of Florence . . . Count G. Arrivabene . . . Gen. Giuseppe Mellini.
Genoa ..... S. P. A ........... Otto Penzlg . . - _- - Venceslas Carrara.
Girgenti (Sicily) . . ............. . .......... Bartolomeo Lagunima.
Magenta . . . . S. P. A. _ _
Milan ..... The Lombardy Ass’n of Zo'ophily G. Bellini ....... Prof. Giulio Cantu.
Naples ..... Naples S. P. A ........ Princess Mele Barese . . G. Minerdini.

Naples ..... Neapolitan S. of Z ...... Celestino-Sindaco . . . . Dr. Adolfo Giordano.
Padua ..... S. P. A ........... Carlo Maluta ..... Cav. Tullio Nob. Abriani.
Palermo ..... S.for Humane Education and P.A. J. I. S. Whitaker . . _. . . Vittorio Spataro.

Rome ...... Rome S. Prot. A ....... Prince A. Doria Pamphili . T. Serras.

San Remo . . . . S. Prot. A. of San Remo . . .Michael G. Foster. . . . O. Piccone.

Turin ...... Turin. S. P. A ........ Cesare Durando . . . . Franco Riccabone.

MALTA. S. P. A.

 

93

 

 

NEW ZEALAND.

Christchurch . . . S. P. A ...................... M. Murph.

Dunedin . . . . Otago S. P. C. A ....... Justice Williams . . . . E. E. C. Quick.
Wellington . . . . S. P. A ...........

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Jas. S. Jameson . . . .Francis Shaw.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

NORWAY.
Arendal
Bergen
Christiania .
Christiansand .
Drammen . . . .
Ibbestad.
Kongsvinger
Mosjoen .
Stavanger
Trondhjem .
Voss . .

PORTUGAL.

Lisbon . . . . .S.

Lisbon
Oporto .
Funchal (Madeira).

 

 

RUSSIA.
Abo (Finland)

Archangel
Astrakhan
Berdichev

Czernigow
Dwiasa . .
Ekaterinburg . .
Grodna .

 

ninémnin-ianJanian-I

S.

: iAstrakhan SectAion. of t
l
l

l-n

<£<d+5°<é<f<i<f<§<i<d<£

A. in .Cliristiaonia

P. A. of Lisbon .

. S. P. Domestic Animals of Portugal

.S. P. A.
FunchalS. P. C. A.

O

P. C. A.
Archangel

Russian S. P.A

Section of The i
he
Berdichev Section oi The
Russian S. P. h.

Russ1an S. P.A e}
Czernigow SfectAon of T H}
Russian SP

Ekaterinburg Section of The
Russian S. P.A

. —— Holpeldt

. ——- Hagemann
. Georg Sverdrup
. Hans Johnsen.

. And. Larssen

. P. B. Opsion.

, -—- Prydtz.

. O. Hals . .

. E. Ronneberg

. —— Kauvin .

. Ivar Hesselberg.

Julio d’ Andrade
Count of Paco Vieira

. Visconde de Guilhoniil:

W. W. Guweliakin

Lieut.-Gen. Hasenkamf .

N. M. Kossowsky .

Alex. Roschdestwensky .
.Bar. vonder Osten Driesen.

Baron von Taube .

 

 

.D. N. Batinschnoﬁ

. H. Regland.
. E. Olsen.
. Oscar Nickelsen.

. Miss L. Harig.
. N. Dons.

. O. Hals.
. Kund Kloster.

. B. Thomassen.

[Heitor.
- I oaqu1m Carlos da Silva
. Alfredo Henrique da Silva.

. Alfred H. da Silva. E

. A. R. Spoof.

. M. Makaroﬁ.

. M. Qui.

. A. Wilensky.

. Alex. Tschemesky.
A. K. Kulikowsky.
. K. N. Dementjeﬁ'.
. Z. W. Wolkowitsky.

 




 

RUSSIA—Continued.
Helsingfors( Finland)
Kalish .
Kaluga

Kamenetz

Kazan

Kiev

Kovno
Krementchoug
Kursk

Lodz
Mariopol

Melitopol

Menselinsk .
Minsk

Moscow .

Narva
Nowoselitzi
Nowotchorkask
Odessa

Omsk

Oofa

Orel . . .
Riga . . . . .
Simferopol .

St. Petersburg .

Stavropol

i Melitopol

 

S. P. C. A.

. Kalish Sec. of The Russian S P. A.
. Kaluga Sec. of The Russian S. P. A.
{ Kamenetz Section of The i

Russian S. P. A. .

. Kazan Sec. of The Russian S. P. A.
. Kiev Sec. of The Russian S. P. A.
. Kovno Sec. of The Russian S. P. A.

5 Krementchoug Section of The i

'( Russian S. P. A. .
. Kursk Sec. of The Russian S. P. A.
{ Lodz Section of The Russian

SP..A

sian S. P. A. .
Section ::of The e;
P.A.

. f
% Mariopol Section of The Rus- ;

Russian S. P.A .

: Minsk Sec. of The Russian S.P
. Moscow Sec. of The RussianSP PA.
. Narva Sec. of The Russian S. P. A.

. Don Sec. of The Russian S. P. A.
. Odessa S. Prot. A. .
. Omsk Sec. of The Russian S. P. A.
. Oofa Sec. of The Russian S. P. A.
. Orel Sec. of The Russian S. P. A.
. Livland S.
. Taurida Sec. of The RussianS. P. A.
. The Russian S. Prot. A.

{ Stavropol

P.A.

Section of The}
Russians. P. A. . . .

P. P. Manassein
S. Kukarin

T. K. Michalewicz .

T. N. Lange. . .
O. O. Eichelmann
COL-Maj. A. Daronoﬁ

B. M. Orenstein
M. W. Zarin .

——- Zacwilichowski .

W. Stankewicz .

W. P. Kanatoﬁ .

—— Ostankoﬁ'.
—— Onatzewitch .
N. A. de Gedrinsky .

J. L. Pawlowski .

A. T. Koreischa.
Maj. -.Gen Grekoff.

. Stephen John Ralli

F. Sendczikowsky.
P. E. Kindiakoff

.I'Ma'ry ' vén 'sc'hiilin'g. '
E. Kessler

A. S. Klutscharef .

 

. Gen. -Maj. P. P. Lonskoi

. Wladislaw Hmielewsky.
. M. W. Micheeﬁ.

. F. K. Czerwinsky.

, T. Goomelewsky.
. W. Tynatowitch.
, —— Lindenbaum.

. J. B. Orenstein.
. W. P. Kartoscheﬁ.
. Léon Jezierski.

. D. Charadshieﬁ.
. Casper L. Chludzinsky.

95

. ——-— Ossowsky.

. Dr. N. I. Korotnerf.

. Julius Selten.

. T. A. Schawursky.

. ——- Turmoresoﬁ'.

. Leon Margulis.

. — Solovieff.

. -— Jolianowsky.

. Tereletzky Klimowitch.
. Clara v. Livingmann.

. —— Kazcouchoff.

. Col. P. P. J oukowsky.

. A. T. Taroshenko.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

RUSSIA—Continued.
Thuemen (Siberia) .

Tiﬂis

Tula
Uman
Vilna
Voronezh
Warsaw .

Zytomir .

SCOTLAND.
Aberdeen .
Arbroath . .
Ayr .
Dundee
Dunfermline
Edinburgh
Forfar

Glasgow .

Inverness

Perth
Tavistock

SOUTH AFRICA.
Cape Town .

. Tiﬂis S. Prot. A.
. Tobolsk S. P. A.

Tobolslc (Siberia)
. . . Tula S. P. A.

. Vilna Sec. of The Russian S. P. A. Maj. —Gen. 0. K. .Sharsky

. Warsaw Sec. of The Russians. P. A. Baron I. Brﬁning .
Wischny Wolotschek .

. Zytomir SEQO’fT‘he RussianS.P.A. Baron de Chaudoire

. Aberdeen Ass’n P. C. A.
. értgoabtxh Branch ScottishS. P. C. A. James A. Paterson
:S.P.A........
. S. P. A.

. Scottish S. P. C. A. . . TheLordProvostof Edin’gh Archibald Langwill, CA.

5
i .
. { Highland Branch of the Scot- i
S. .
S.

 

Thuemen Section of The) -
i Russian S. P. A. . . . . 5 —_ Sh1shkowsky.
. . . . S. A. Klimoff . . . . . I. M. Pawloﬁ'.
. . . . L. M. Knioseff . . . . . L. N. WOIOfT.
. .J. P. Zeitlin . . . . K. S. Twanoﬁ.
Uman Sec. of The Russian S. P. A. D. Levandoff. . -——— Smolitch.

. A. Rymschewiz.

{Voronezh Section of The? K. W. Koniewsky.

RussianS..PA.. ,s'AHAlsaeﬁ-ooo.

- . —-— Golowatchewsky.
N W. Essenowsky To- .
i bolkin. . 0 } A. E. Slpatlo.

Lord Provost of Aberdeen . Alex. J. R. Thain.
. . . David Littlejohn.

. . William Hunter . Thomas Buist.

Glasgow and West of ..SCOt—i

land S P C. A. TheLordProvostof Glasgow Henry F, Lowndes.

tish S P C A . . Right Hon. Lord Lovat

P.
P.

. Duncan Shaw.

Cape of Good Hope S. P. C. A.

.F. Y. St. Leger, M.L.A. . W. Pavel.

 

 

 

96

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SWEDEN—Continued.
Marieped

Morsil

N ettraby
Orebro
Skofde

Stockholm
Stockholm
Stockholm

Strengnas

Stromstadt

Sundsvall
Tjorn .
Umea .
Upsala
Vexio
Visby

Wimmerby
SWITZERLAND.

Aargau
Basle .
Berne
Bienne
Burgdorf
Chur .
Fribourg
Geneva

Langenthal

Lausanne
Lucerne

O

N euchatel

Nyon

.S...PA

. S. P. A.
. Union of Soc’ 5 P. C A. in Chur
. Fribourg S. P. C. A.
. Vaudoise S. Prot. A. .

S. P. A. .
M6rsilS.P.A. . . . . . .
N ettraby S. P. A.
Orebro S. P. A. .
Skofde S. P. A. .

Stockholm Branch S. P. A.
SwedishS. P. A. . . . .
Swedish Women’s Branch

S. P. C. A. of Strengnas .
S. P. A. .

Tjorn S. P. A. .

Western Territory S. P. A.
Northern S. P. A.
Vexio S. P. A. .
Visby S. P. A. .
S. P. A. . .

. I O C O O .

P. C. :1 .1n the Canton of Aargau
.C. A . . .
1enne S. Prot. A.

9494

S.
S.
S.
B

S..PA..

S. P. C. A. in Langenthal . . .
.S. P. A. . . .
. Neuchatel S.

 

{5. Prot. A. of Vaud in the}
Canton of Nyon . . . .

 

. Henri Thalmann

Prot.A... .

 

K. U. Nylander . . .
Gustof Erikson . .
Fr. Schlyter . . .
J. Wahlﬁsk . . . . .
H. Uggla . . . .
Count G. von Rosen .
Baron Carl C. von Bonde
Mrs. Josephine Varenius
K. U. Nylander . .
Sven Ljunggren .
Aug. Bystedt . .
Carl Ljungman. . . .
Prof. C. N. Pahl .
Henrik Akerstrom .
Ch. E. von Oelreich .
O. Carlstedt .
Fr. Ljung .

Dr. H. Fischer . . .
Prof. P. Bohringer
S. W. Kuhn .

Joseph Rey . .
Maj. Hartm. V. Caviezel
Rev. Charles de Raemy

Ed. Muller-Jaggi . . .
—— Cousin . . . .
Rob. Marbacher . .
Rev. Mr. Lardy . . .

Eugene Gamboni . . .

 

. Thos. Nordstrom.
. N. Otto Lindstrom.

Ivar Espelund.

Dr. E. Adlez.

Atel Th. W'ahlstrom.

A. E. Ljundberg.

Baron Ludwig von Platen.

. P. G. Isberg.

T. Nordstrom.

.A. Wiklund.
. H. Salvin.

Y. A. Kallstrom.
Dr. P. B. Regnér.
A. G. Florén.
Frans Berggren.
Alfr. Rosval.

J. P. Johanson.

H. Hasler.
Dr. Hans Keller.
F. Witschy.

. Albert Chopard.

. Dr. H. Stickelberger.
. Dr. Michel v. Valer.
. Prof. Otto Moser.

Eugene de Bude.

F. Schneeberger.

E. Chavannes.

Dr. Bucher. . _
Eugene Courv01s1er.

Louis Maquelin.

 

 

98




 

 

SWRITIZIERLAND—Cont’d. I

o e ...... S. —— Reymond ..... Scho f .

Soleure ..... S. . A. . .. ........ T. Arnold ...... Prof. Sewgr?‘
St. Gall ..... S. C. A. m St. Gall . . . . C. Tuppinger ..... T. Edelmann.
Toggenburg . . . S. C. A. of Toggenburg . . J. Edelmann ...... —— Scherrer.
T hun ...... S. A ........... A. Knechtenhofer . . . . F. Brandt. '
Vevey ..... S. A ........... G. Pfeiffer ....... H. Burnier.
Zurich ..... S. A ........... G. Suter ....... G. Naegi.

 

4
mo.

Din-{04:34:34

TASMANIA.
Hobart ..... Southern Tasmanian S. P. A. . R. G. Hamilton ..... Miss M. S. Gellibrand.

Launceston . . . . Northern Tasmanian S. P. A. . Mrs. P. O. Fysh.

 

 

 

TURKEY.
Candia (Crete) . . S. P. C. A. ........ M. E. von Schwartz.

\0

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

AGENTS.

In addition to the uniformed force attached to Head-
quarters and the Brooklyn Ofﬁce, the Society is represented
throughout the State of New York by the following Agents:

ALLEGANY COUNTY.

BENJAMIN, R. W ........................................ Rushford
GLOVER, GEORGE W ................................ Friendship
HARRIS (M.D.), WILLIAM H ......................... Canaseraga
MUNN, JAMES E ......................................... Oramel
WHITING, J. I ......... - ................................... Bolivar

BECOME COUNTY.
WILSON, JOHN M......... .......................... Deposit

CATTARAUGUS COUNTY.

BOARDMAN, HENRY C ....... ; ........................ Salamanca
COTTON, CHARLES ....................................... Olean
HUNTLEY, JASON T ......... ~ .......................... Randolph
JENKS, CHARLES T .......... , .......................... Killbuck
NELLIGAN, DAVID P ................................ Salamanca

CHAUTAUQUA COUNTY.
JENKS, A. FRANK ..................................... Jamestown

CHENANGO COUNTY.

BRIGGS, WILLIAM P ......... p ...................... ' ..... Smyrna
HOLBROOK, FRANK E ............................... Columbus
MORSE, ALPHA .......................................... Oxford
STARR, LOUIS H ...................................... Chenango
WILLIAMS (M.D.), GEORGE O ........................... Greene

 




IOI

CLINTON COUNTY.

LIBERTY, LOUIS ..................................... Plattsburgh
MOORE, JOHN N ...................................... Champlain

COLUMBIA. COUNTY.

VAN DEUSEN, CHAS. H ................................ Hudson
WHITBECK, CORNELIUS ......................... ' ..... Craryville
WHITE, GORDON A ..................................... Hudson

DELAWARE COUNTY.
HALSTEAD, GEORGE .................................. Stamford

DUTCEESS COUNTY.

CRUSE (M.D.), THOMAS K .................... Wappinger’s Falls
MOITH, THEODORE ...................................... Fishkill

ESSEX COUNTY.

DODGE, LEONARD ....................................... Keene
STANTON, JOHN W ............................... Elizabethtown

FRANKLIN COUNTY.

DONOHOE, M. C ........................................... Malone
SEARS, GEORGE A ................................ Saranac Lake

FULTON COUNTY.

BUTTON, MILLARD F ............................... Gloversville
DAY, JULIUS B .......................................... Mayﬁeld
HOWE, DUANE ....................................... Broadalbin
KIBBE, ARTHUR D .................................. Gloversville
LENTZ, WILLIAM ..................................... Johnstown
ROOT, ERASTUS ..................................... Gloversville

GENESEE COUNTY.

HOUSTON, FRANKLIN .................................. Le Roy
ROGERS, JOHN L ........... .. ........ Pembroke

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

1;»;3'
; :2 WI

‘ I: I
I I M
l,‘ ‘3 l ‘
, H“ ”1W”
‘ ‘3‘ ”up“
I l ‘
H M l MI‘H
H‘ l W!‘
I 1 wills,
‘M i, ‘l‘fyll‘h,‘
, l“

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

    
   
   
  

    
   

W ‘

 

  

102

GREENE COUNTY.

DECKER, ROSCOE ..................................... Prattsville
EGGLESTON, GEORGE ............................. Tannersville
HORTON, J. BRADLEY ................................. Athens
MOON, WILLIAM H ................................... Windham
REILLY, JOSEPH ........................................ Catskill
RILEY, WILLIAM T ............. ‘ ...................... Lexington
WELLS, CHRISTOPHER .............................. Coxsackie
WILLARD (M.D.), CHARLES E .......................... Catskill

HERKIMER COUNTY.

BARGY, WARNER ...................................... Frankfort
HALL, H. CLAY ....................................... Little Falls
SPOFFORD, JULIAN C ................................ Dolgeville

JEFFERSON COUNTY.

N ORTHRUP, JOSEPH ............................. Alexandria Bay
WARD, PETER A ...................................... Watertown

LEWIS COUNTY.

BABCOCK, LEWIS E .................................... Lowville
DRYDEN, JOHN D ........ ' ........................... C openhagen
SCOVILLE, HENRY C ............................. Constableville

LIVINGSTON COUNTY.
SHULTS, WARREN D ............................. Mount Morris

MADISON COUNTY.

BRYANT, HAROLD ................................... Brookﬁeld
DE GROODT, FRED. E ............................ Pratt’s Hollow
GAVIN, JOHN .......................................... Hamilton
LIPPITT, F. B ............................................ Madison
LOCKMAN, A ........................................... Cazenovia
PERRY (M.D.), C. H ...................................... Oneida
TEALE, B. S ............................................... Oneida

WARREN,JOB A...........,.. ........................ De Ruyter

     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
   

 

  

 




 

 

   
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
   
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
   
 
  
 
 
  
 
   
 
   
    
 
   
        

103

MONTGOMERY COUNTY.

DE FOREST, DAVID.... . . . . . . . . . ................... Amsterdam
EATON, ALFRED G .................................. Amsterdam
FOX, BROWNELL C .......................... . ....... Canajoharie
MERENESS, CHARLES W ............................ Fort Plain
NASSAU COUNTY.
BALDWIN, JR., WM. H ............................ Locust Valley
BRUNDAGE, JOSEPH H ................................ Sea Cliff
BRUSH, BEN], F ...................................... Oyster Bay
CLOWES, LEWIS H ................................... Hempstead
COCK, HON. TOWNSEND D ...... . ................... Oyster Bay
COFFIN, BENJAMIN L ............................... Thomaston
CORT, THOMAS HENRY ............................. Cedarhurst
FLOYD-JONES, G. STANTON ....................... Massapequa
MERRITT, DAVID H ..................................... Inwood
MILLER, FERDINAND F ................................ Seaford
VAN WAGNER, GEO. E ............................ Locust Valley
VAN WAGNER, WILLIAM ......................... Locust Valley
NIAGARA COUNTY.
BRACKENRIDGE, WM. A .......................... Niagara Falls
HOD'GE (M.D.), JOHN W .......................... Niagara Falls
POMEROY, D. N ........................................ Lockport
THURSTON, BENJAMIN F ......................... Niagara Falls
ONEIDA. COUNTY.
LEWIS, W. D ................................................ Utica
ONONDAGA COUNTY.
OTIS, ISAAC C ............................................ Jordan
ONTARIO COUNTY.
NORTON, EDGAR ................................ East Bloomﬁeld
ORANGE COUNTY.
DUNNING, JOHN B .................................. Middletown
MILLS, JAMES J ..................................... .Port Jervis
NANNY, HARRISON W .................................. Goshen
ORR, JAMES A ....................................... Port Jervis
REYNOLDS, WM ............................ Cornwall-on-Hudson

  
  
 
    

  
   
 

l
l

W ll

_ ‘ ‘ will,
" l W

l
' w
i

  




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

iilii‘ihi J l;
W i :

i‘ I
J. L,
“‘1‘“ ,

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

‘ , i 13

“f‘ ‘1 .i H
i l H I

M I “ WM“!

1 Mi '1‘

" ‘13“ i

r, j,
y
, H 1
i M;
Ii" 1" i‘: y‘
i *‘m

M
:‘r

i
V:
1!-
w
4}:

 

 

104

ORLEANS COUNTY.
SMITH, SAMUEL W ...................................... Holley

OSWEGO COUNTY.

NEWMAN, E. G ................................... North Hannibal
PENFIELD, W. H ......................................... Mexico

OTSEGO COUNTY.

CRAMER, ALMOND ................................ Cherry Valley
JOHNSON, HOWARD R ................................. Oneonta
PLAT‘T, CHARLES M ...................................... Morris
SITTS, JOHN H .................................. Richﬁeld Springs
TIPPLE, ORRA L ...................................... Schenevus

PUTNAM COUNTY.
BENNETT, WALTER J .................................. Mahopac

QUEENS COUNTY.

APPLEGATE, JACOB A ................................. Flushing
BAILEY, GEORGE M ................................. Springland
BUSCH, ADAM ....................................... Woodhaven
DUSING, WILLIAM ....................... 231 Ninth Ave., Astoria
PHILLIPS, FREDERICK .......................... Richmond Hill
POST, JR., JAMES B ................................ Richmond Hill
SNEDEKER, BENJAMIN N .............................. Jamaica

RICHMOND COUNTY.
ELLIOTT, GEORGE ................................ New Brighton

ST. LAWRENCE COUNTY.

MITCHELL, JOHN M ................................ Ogdensburg
THORNHILL, STEPHEN W ........................ Ogdensburg

SARATOGA COUNTY.

COZINE, JAMES H ............................. Souﬁh Glens Falls
SELDEN, EDWARD D .......................... Saratoga Springs

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

\

106

SULLIVAN COUNTY.

CREVELIN G, REV. P. C .................................. Liberty
DECKER, A. A ..................................... Mountain Dale
GRANT, EDWARD W ..................................... Liberty
REYNOLDS, KIRE M ................................. Monticello
SHEELEY, ORRIN R ..................................... Liberty

TIOGA. COUNTY.
BEEBE, CLARK W ........................................ Candor

ULSTER COUNTY.

OSTRANDER, DE WITT W .......... ‘ ......... . . . . .Clintondale
WARREN COUNTY.
BURNETT, WILLIAM H ............................ Lake George
GRIFFIN G, E. T .......................................... Luzerne
HARRIS, E. S. ........................................ Lake George
SEXTON, JESSE E ......................................... Hague.
WASHINGTON COUNTY.
JAKEWAY, FRED ..................................... Fort Miller
MCFARLAND, WILLIAM M ............................... Salem
TEMPLE, ALLEN S ..................................... Whitehall
WALSH, JAMES ..................... ‘ .................... Granville

WAYNE COUNTY.

AGETT, WILLIAM W ...................................... Lyons
DAVENPORT, CLARENCE F ............................. Huron
DUNN, HOMER c ........................................ Lyons
MORSE, LEWIS H ........................................ Newark
RICH, JOSEPH C ......................................... Marion

WESTCEESTER COUNTY.

ANGEVINE, GILBERT J .............................. Mt. Vernon
BACON, MARSHAL L ................................. Tarrytown
BARR, JOHN H ......................................... Irvington
BEACH, ROBERT J ....... Pelham Manor
BERBERT, FREDERICK .................... Hastings-on-Hudson

 

 




 

 

107

BRIGHT, MARSHAL H .............. I .................. Tarrytown
BURDSALL, RICHARD H... ......................... Port Chester
COLLINS, HIRAM J .................................. Mt, Vernon
FARLEY, JOHN M ................................... White Plains
FLINT, F. W ........................................... Larchmont
FOSHAY, HARRY E ................................ Mamaroneck
FOWLER, GEORGE ................................. White Plains
GARNJOST, FERDINAND ............................... Yonkers
GOBLE, MAHLON ...................................... Ossining
HART, FRED. R ........................................ Mt. Kisco
HUSS, HENRY ........................................ Mt. Vernon
HYLSEN, RUDOLPH .................................. Bronxville
KON RAD, AUGUSTUS ................. - ................ Tarrytown
MAHONEY, JOHN H ........................... North Tarrytown
O’BRIEN, JOHN J .................................. New Rochelle
PAGE, ALBERT W .................................... Chappaqua
PEARSALL, ROWLAND E ......................... i. ..Chappaqua
PHELPS, ALBERT E ................................... Irvington
SCHENCK, CHAS. STEWART ............................... Rye
SHERMAN, VINTON ................................ Port Chester
SLOCUM, WILLIAM E ................................... Ard‘sley
SORDEN, CHARLES E ................................. Tuckahoe
ZINCK, GEORGE F ..................................... Elmsford

WYOMING COUNTY.

BRIGDEN, REV. ARTHUR E .............................. Attica
GIFFORD, DR. WILLIS B ................................. Attica
LINDSAY, 2D, JOHN ...................................... Castile

YATES COUNTY.
HAYS, FREEMAN W .................................. Penn Yan

‘
,i
1
‘ I
I
w
x
V
;
i, I
i‘
,,
i
,1
H
i
'H
i ”i
it
I
1‘ ““w
‘ , i M
r, ' il’ 1"
1 , mi“
‘ D‘ M'
x‘ 7
t,
w M \‘
1‘31
‘
1, ‘Hw‘
\ AW]
‘HM
, r
‘ ”"139
r l‘h
“4‘ ‘1‘
i
I!“
,,

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

. lg:
l

M?
‘3‘5,
lid
*1 l

‘ 3
’lil

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

    

 
  
 
  
    
   
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

LIFE MEMBERS.

 

 

THE PAYMENT OF ONE HUNDRED DOLLARS on MORE, AT ONE TIME,
SECURES A LIFE MEMBERSHIP.

 

A

Allen, Mrs. John K.
Amend, Bernard G.
Anderson, Mrs. A. A.
Andrews, Mrs. B. L.
Andrews, C. A.
Archbold, John D.
Arnold, William
Astor, Mrs. John Jacob
Astor, William Waldorf
Avery , Samuel P.

B

Banks, Jr., Robt. Lenox
Baptist, Robert F.

Becker, Mrs. Jennie T. B.
Benedict, Mrs. Louise M.

Bennet, Hon. Wm. S.
Benson, Miss Mary
Beresford, Mrs. John G.
Bergh, Henry
Billington, Mrs. Reno R.
Bliss, Robert P.

Bliss, Susan D.
Borman, A. H.
Bostwick, Mrs. Jabez A.
Bowdoin, George S.
Boyd, J. Gilmore
Brewster, Robert S.
Bundy, Hobart L.
Burdick, B. W.

Burke, Edward F.
Butler, Miss M. W.
Butts, Mrs. Laura A.

C

Carey, Hon. Henry D.
Carnegie, Mrs. Andrew
Carpenter, Miss Harriet N.
Carpentier, Edward
Carpentier, Gen. Horace W.
Cary, Miss Ellen G.
Chambers, Dr. M. L.
C’hauncey, Henry D.

Claﬂin, Arthur B.

Claﬂin, Mrs. H. B.

Claﬂin, John

Clark, Miss Ella Mabel
Clendenin, D.D., Rev. F. 1\/I.
Clews, Henry

Cochran, W. Bourke
Convers, E. B.

Cook, C. T.

Corning, John J.

Crapo, John M.

Crocker, Mrs. Caroline B.

D

Daly, Henry F.

Daly, Mrs. Henry F.

Dawson, Benjamin Frederick
De Sers, Mme. La Contesse




Devendorf, Miss Dorothy
DeWitt, George G.

Dey, Anthony

Dickinson, Mrs. H. A.
Dodge, Mrs. Charles Cleve’d
Dodge, George E.

Dodge, Norman W.

Draper, Mrs. Henry
Driggs, Silas W.

Dunlap, Cornell

E

Eaton, Mrs. Cornelia.
Eaton, William S.
Eger, Mrs. T. G.
Ehret, George

Eno, Wm. P.

Eno, Mrs. William P.
Ewen, Miss C. G.

F

Faber, Mrs. Angelica B.
Fairfax, Mrs. Lindsay
Ford, James B.

Ford, William T.
Foster, James

G

Gasper, Mrs. Jennie Beach
Gebhard, William H.
Gerrish, Mrs. Frank Scott
Gilbert, Frederick E.
Gillette, William
Graham, Mrs. Alice B.
Gray, Horace

Gudewill, George
Guggenheim, Benjamin
Guggenheim, Solomon
Gunning, William J.

109

H

Hadden, John A.
Haines, John P.
Haines, Mrs. John P.
Halsey, Mrs. Frederic Robt.
Hamilton, John L.
Hard, Miss Laura W.
Hawkins, Gen. Rush C.
Hawkins, Mrs. Rush C.
Henderson, Mrs. A. C.
Hentz, Miss Helen L.
Hicks, Benjamin D.
Hoe, Jr., Robert
Holbrook, Miss Lilian
Howard, Bronson
Howard, Mrs. Bronson
Hubbard Thomas H.
Humfreville, J. Lee
Hunt, Miss Ann
Huntington, Archer M.

I

Iselin, Adrian

J

James, Mrs. John S.
Jesup, Morris K.
Johnson, Dr. S. K.
Johnston, J. Boorman

K

Kennedy, John L.
Kingman, Mrs. Martin E.
Kip, Henry S.

Kohlsaat, J. W.

Kraus, Miss Emma

L
L’Amoreaux, Hon. J. S.
Lanier, Charles

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Lawrence, R. As‘h‘ton

Lee, Miss Alleine

Leeds, Mrs. Warner M.
Lewis, Mrs. Henry Dickinson
Liautard, Dr. A. F.

Lilley, C. W.

Low, Joseph T.

Lung, Dean

M

McCurdy, Robert H.
McGee, James
Marié, Peter .
Markoe, Dr. Francis H.
Marlor, Henry S.
Marsh, John Edward
Marshall, Charles H.
Mayer, Otto L.
Meeker, Mrs. C. H.
Merritt, Mrs. George
Merritt, Miss Mary E.
Milbank, Joseph
Milbank. Mrs. Joseph
Miller, William Starr
Mitchell, Roland G.
Moffat, Miss Myra
Morss, Mrs. Mary T.
Mott, Jordan L.
Moulton, Miss Eliza
Moulton, Mrs. F..A.
Murray, John B.

N
Newton, Mrs. R. H.

O

O’Brien, William

Odell, Hon. Benjamin B.
Olcott, Miss Edith

Olcott, F. P.

Olmsted, Mrs. Charles T.
Osborn, William H. '

P

Parrish, James C.
Peabody, George Foster
Platt, Hon. Thomas C.
Post, Edwin A.

Pyne, Jr., Moses Taylor

R

Reusens, G.

Rhinelander, Miss S.
Rhines, Mrs. Isaac Olcott
Ripley, Harry Dillon
Ripley, Sidney Dillon
Robbins, Mrs. Milton
Rogers, H. H.

Rolfe, Mrs. N. D.
Roosevelt, Hon. Theodore
Ruppert, Jacob

Russell, Jr., Archibald Doug.
Russell, Hon. Horace

S

Scharmann, H. B.
Schermerhorn, Mrs. John W.
Schermerhorn, William C.
Seligman, DeWitt J.
Seligman, Jefferson

Shaw, Mrs. Francis G.
Sherman, George
Sherman, William Watts
Slater, Hon. Samuel S.
Smith, Miss Alice

Smith, Mrs. A. J.

Smith, Dr. Edward A.
Smith, Miss Josephine C.
Spence, Miss Clara B.
Squier, E. George
Standish, Mrs. Myles
Stevens, Frederick W.
Stillman, Miss B. G.
Stokes, Miss C. P.

Stokes, Jr., James

 




Stokes, Miss Olivia E. P.
Straus, Nathan
Stuyvesant. Mrs. J. Reade
Suckley, Robert B.

Sulzer, Hon. William
Swezey, Mary E.

T

Taft, Elihu Barber
Taylor, George C.
Thompson, Fred. F.
Thorne, William
Townsend, Mrs. Howard
Trevor, Henry G.

Tuck, Edward

Tuck, Mrs. Edward

U
Uhlmann, Frederick

V

Valentine, Mitchel
Vanderbilt, F. W.
Vanderbilt, Mrs. F. W.
Van Kirk, Miss Lila
Van Rensselaer, Kiliaen

III

Van Rensselaer, Mrs. COrt-
landt S.
Von Post, H. C.

W

Wagstaff, Hon. Alfred
Wagstaff, Mrs. Alfred
Walter, Mrs. Anna T.
Watson, George H.
Wendel, Miss Ella

Wendel, Miss Georgiana G. R.
Wharton, Edward R.
Wheeler, Miss Laura
White, Mrs. C. E.
Whitney, Hon. Wm. C.
Williamson, Mrs. Maria
Winans, Miss M. Antoinette
Winship, L. A.

Winslow, Edward
Winthrop, Benjamin R.
Wolff, Agnes H.

Wood, Charles B.

Wood, Mrs. Charles B.
Wyckoff, Mrs. Cora Dillon

Y
Yuengling, In, David G.

Z
Zebley, Mrs. John F.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

l H I l ;‘ J‘1‘J“l
i‘ li‘i‘ﬂ‘ll 1‘ J‘J‘JJ.3JJF‘ .
, u H, 1‘

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

MEMBERS.

 

THE ANNUAL MEMBERSHIP SUBSCRIPTION IS FIVE DOLLARS.

 

A

Abraham, Abraham
Acker, Miss Delia F.
Ackerman, E. W.
Alexander, Miss Eleanor B.
Alexander, Mrs. H. A.
Alexandre, J. H.
Allebone, Mrs. J. 0.
Allen, Miss L. D.
Allen, Miss Rose
Allien, Henry V.

Alter, David

Andresen, Mrs. L. E.
Andrews, Miss Pearl
Armstrong, James
Arnold, Dr. Edmund S. F.
Arnold, Louis
Arnstein, Albert
Arnstein, E.

Arnstein, Miss Edna
Arnstein, Leo

Aron, A.

Ashforth, Mrs. Freda
Asiel, Miss Irma H.
Attridge, John
Auchincloss, Mrs. H. D.
Austin, Mrs. F. B.
Avila, Mrs. Samuel A.
Ayer, Frederick F.

B

Babcock, H. D.
Bachmann, Frederick
Backster, Mrs. Clara L.
Backus, Mrs. Foster L.
Bacon, Jr., Mrs. Francis
McNiel
Bacon, Marshal L.
Bailey, Mrs. O. S.
Baldwin, H. M.
Baldwin, Miss Kate C.
Baldwin, Mrs. T. Burnett
Baldwin, Jr., Wm. H.
Ball, John Oscar
Ballin, Oscar E.
Banks, Mrs. Theo. Howard
Banyer, Goldsboro
Barclay, R. C.
Barclow, Mrs. Kate L.
Bardes, John
Barker, Miss Isabel R.
Barnes, Davis
Barnes, Mrs. Harriet S.
Barnes, Miss Mildred
Barney, Mrs. J. Stewart
Baronn, Miss Agnes
Baronn, Miss Gertrude
Barrow, Mrs. J. Thomas
Barry, Wm. J.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Brown, Albert 0.
Brown, Edward M.
Brown, Edward W.
Brown, Robert

Brown, Walston H.
Brown, Mrs. Walston H.
Brown, W. J.
Brownson, Mrs. W. H.
Bruns, C. A.

Brush, W. Franklin
Bryan, Charles S.
Buchanan, Mrs. C. P.
Bull, W. L.

Bull, Jr., W. L.

Bull, Mrs. W. L.

Bull, Mrs. William T.
Bullinger, Mrs. E. T.
Burkhard, Jacob
Burnett, S. O.
Burroughs, William V.
Busch, Mrs. Briton Niven
Butler, Charles S.
Byrnes, Rev. James P.

C

Cady, Mrs. J. C.

Cahill, Michael
Caldwell, R. J.

Calef, Mrs. John H.
Callaway, William T.
Callender, Miss Mary R.
Calm, Miss Berta
Cammann, George P.
Campbell, Alexander
Canty, Daniel

Carew, Mrs. L. B.
Carlebach, Emil
Carnochan, G. M.
Carpenter, Miss Agnes
Carpenter, Mrs. Miles B.
Carrington, Miss E. B.
Carroll, J. D.

114

Carscallen, Mrs. J. D.
Cary, Mrs. M. B.

Cary, Mrs. W. F.
Cathcart, Miss Jane R.
Catlin, Miss Cora V. R.
Catlin, Miss C. L. R.
Catlin, Miss Edith R.
Catlin, Wm. H.
Cestero, J. N.

CeStero, Mrs. J. N.
Chambers, Miss Catherine D.
Chapman, Mrs. E. N.
Chapman, Isaac E.
Childs, Miss Jessamine G.
Chisholm, Hugh J.
Choate, Hon. Joseph H.
Choate, Mrs. Joseph H.
Claghorn, Mrs. Charles
Clark, Mrs. Margaret
Cleveland, Mrs. J. Wray
Clyde, Miss Mabel
Cobden, Rev. Richard
Coburn, Miss L. C.
Cockey, Edward C.

Coe, Mrs. Henry Clarke
Coe, Miss Miriam Storrs
Cofﬁn, Miss Adéle
Cohen, Albert A.

Cohen, Solomon L.
Cohen, Stanley A.

Colby, Miss May Colgate
Colby, William Colgate
Cole, Mrs. Hugh L.
Colgate, A. W.

Colgate, Mrs. A. W.
Colgate, James B.
Collins, Miss Ellen
Collins, Miss Margaret
Collord, George W.
Conklin, Miss Mary H.
Conner, Mrs. Crowell M.
Constable, W.

Constable, Mrs. Wm.




 

    

Cook, Frank D.

Cooke, Mrs. Laura E.
C00n1ey, Mrs. Howard
Cooper, L. A.

Corbett, C. H.

Cornell, Hon. Robert C.
Coudert, Hon. Frederic R.
Coutts, Mrs. G. H.
Cowles, Alfred A.
Cozzino, Mrs. Joseph A.
Craigie, A. Walpole
Cramer, L. H.

Cravath, Mrs. Paul D.
Credo, Mrs. G.
Crimmins, Thomas E.
Critten, Miss Marjorie
Critten, Miss Mignon
Crosby, Miss M. E.
Crossman, George W.
Crossman, W. H.
Crossmond, Mrs. L. D.
Crowell, Edward B.
Cruger, Fred Hammerlys
Cruikshank. Mrs. A. W.
Culver, Mrs. Everett B.
Cummings, George F.
Cummings, Robert J.
Cunningham, Frank
Cunningham, George
Curie, Charles

Curie, Charles, Jr.
Curtiss, Mrs. Frank
Curtiss, Miss Sophia

D

Dailey, Miss May Belle
Dalley, Henry

Dalzell, Mrs. John D.
Dana, Richard S.

Darrell, Edward F.
Darrigrand, Alexander A.
Darrigrand, Miss Lucie
Davidson, Miss Clara

  

115

Davies, Mrs. Mansﬁeld
Davies, William Gilbert
Davis, J. Edward
Davison, Clarence B.
Davison, Rev. W. L.
Day, Clarence S.

Day, Mrs. H. M.
Dearborn, Miss Dorothy
De Bost, William L.

De Coppet, H.

De Coppet, Mrs. H.

De Cordova, Alfred
DeGroot, Miss Emma P.
Dehon, Miss M. H.
Dejonge, Louis

Delano, Miss Jean W.

' DeLashmut, Mrs. G.

Dendi, T.

Dentz, Miss J.

Dentz, Miss L. J.

De Rigaud, Mrs. Clara
De Ruiz, Mrs. P. B.
Despard, Mrs. C. L.
Despard, W. D.

Despard, Mrs. W. D.

De Vinne, Miss Emma
De Wolfe, Miss Elsie
Dick, Mrs. W. B.
Dieterich, Charles F.
Dillar, W. E.

Dillon, John F.

Dillon, Maurice
Dimock, Mrs. I. DeWolf
Dimock, Mrs. J. J.
Ditson, Mrs. C. H.

Dix, S.T.D., Rev. Morgan
Dodge, Marcellus Hartley
Dodge, William E.
Dodge, Sr., Mrs. W. E.
Doelger, Peter

Doerr, J. B. .
Dominick, H. Blanchard
Donaldson, Mrs. E. L.




 

 

11 1111 1 111

1 :1111 11111

 

 

1‘ 1‘ 11

1111 11 1111111
‘ 11
1‘ 111 111 111 1111
1‘ 11111“
1 ‘11
1 1
1 1 1: 111
1» 1 1 1 11
111‘ 1 11 111111
‘ 1 1‘ :11.
11 11 1 1‘1111
11111 11 111111
‘1 1 1 11‘1
11: 1 ‘ 1
11 1 1 1111
1 111111 1 ‘11111
1 ‘1 11:
11 1 111
1111“ 1 1 11111
11

‘1‘ 1 11 1

 

 

 

 

111111"
1
1

 

 

 

   
 
 
 
 
  
 

    

 

 

Donovan, Dennis
Donovan, H. J.
Dowst, Arthur A.
Drake, Mrs. Charles
Drake, John J.
Drake, Miss Mary Hopeton
Dreier, H. E.

Dreier, Miss Mary E.
Duggin, Mrs. Charles
Dunham, Miss Helen
Dunlop, John
Dunnell, Miss M.
Durand, John S.
Dusenbury, C. Coles
Du Vivier, E. A.

E

Eaton, A. Lincoln
Eaton, Mrs. D. Cady
Eckstein, Samuel
Eddy, Mrs. Jane B.
Edmonds, John W.
Edwards, J. Pierrepont
Egler, Fred.

Eldridge, Lewis A.
Elkins, Miss Fannie
Elkins, Miss Ida
Ellis, Mrs. A. V. H.
Ellison, William B.
Ely, Ambrose K.
Emmet, Master Watson Case
Emory, Mrs. John Comegys
Endicott, Mrs. Robert
Engeman, William A.
Englis, Charles M.
Ennis, John J.

Eppig, Joseph
Erbsloh, R. 1
Erhardt, Hon. Joel B.

F

Fahnestock, William
Falls, Mrs. C. B.

116

   
 
  

Fargo, James C.

Faye, Mrs. Ernest Frederick
Feist, Karl

Felt, Mrs. Edwin M.
Felt, Mrs. J. P.

F inck, August

Fink, Mrs. George P.
Fish, 0. B.

Fisher, Philip

Fisk, Mrs. S. A.

Fiske, Mrs. Harrison G.
Fitzgerald, Gen. Louis
Flegenheimer, Jr., Henry
Fleig, Albert B.

Flint, Miss Annie

Flint, Mrs. Austin

Flint, Jr., Mrs. Austin
Flint, Mrs. Charles R.
Flint, Miss Helena
Floyd, William
Foehrenbach, Jr., F.
Foller, Nicholas

‘ Fontaine, Samuel S.

Foote, E. V.

Forbes, Miss Agnes
Forepaugh, Miss Lily
Forney, Matthias W.
Foster, Mrs. John S.
Fox, Mrs. Austen G.

Fox, Charles A.

Fox, Mrs. Hilda C. Seccomb
Francis, Nathaniel L.
Franklin, Dr. E. D.
Franks, C. Douglas
Franks, Mrs. C. Douglas
Franzreb, Henry
Franzreb, John
Freedman, Andrew
Freel, Edward

Freeman, Prof. James J.
Freeman, W. D.

French, Mrs. Leigh H.
Friedmann, H. G.




 

    

Frothingham, H. P.
F riihauf, Miss Victoria

G
Gage, William B.

Gaisman, H. J.

Gallaher, Mrs. Julia A. ,

Gallatin, Frederic

Garcier, Mrs. Francisco

Gardner, Dr. A. R.

Gates, Isaac E.

Gatter, Miss Elizabeth Almy

Gatter, Miss Georgia

Gaus, Henry L.

Gaus, John L.

Gebhauer, Dr. Max

Gellatly, Mrs. John

Georgen, W. T.

Gherardi, Rear Adm., Ban-
croft, U.S.N.

Gibb, John

Gibbert, Sr., Mrs. F. E.

Gibbes, Miss Z.

Gilbert, Miss Kathleen

Gilford, Samuel T.

Gillespie, Miss Josephine A1-
den

Gitterman, Mrs. John Milton

Glatz, Mrs. Pauline

Goddard, Miss Annie C.

Godfrey, Charles H.

Goetze, Otto

Goin, Mrs. James D.

Golding, John N.

Golding, Jr., John Noble

Golding, Robert Noble

Goldsmith, Fred.

Goodman, Joseph N.

Goodrich, George Selden

Goodrich, Mrs. Thomas F.

Gould, Frank J.

Gould, George J.

Gould, Mrs. George J.

  

117

Gould, Miss Helen Miller
Graef, Mrs. Harry C. ‘
Grant, Rev. Percy S.
Grant, Mrs. Ulysses S.
Grant, W. Wallace
Grauer, George «
Greer, D.D., Rev. David H.
Gregory, Charles
Greppe, Theodore
Grismer, Joseph R.
Grismer, Mrs. Joseph R.
Griswold, Mrs. George
Griswold, Miss Sarah D.
Gross, Albert H.
Grosvenor, Mrs. J. B. M.
Grosvenor,Rev.Wm.M.,D.D.
Gruner, Mrs. Siegfried
Guggenheimer, Hon. R.
Guggenheimer, Mrs. R.
Guiterman, Rudolph
Gunther, Henry
Guttenberg, F.

Gwyer, Mrs. Fred Walker

H

Haddock, J. W.

Haffen, John

Hage, Daniel S.

Hague, Miss M.

Haight, Stephen S.
Haines, G. Sabine

Hale, Mrs. Thomas

Hall, Mrs. Humes
Halsted, C. Stockton
Hanshew, Dr. E.

Hard, Anson W.
Harding, Col. Wm. J.
Hardy, Miss Ruth
Harkness, Mrs. S. V.
Harriman, Mrs. J. Borden
Harris, Isaac

Harris, Mrs. Laura C.
Harris, Mrs. Wm. Hamilton




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

JJ,
JJ '
J' l W
1J

 

Harrison, Mrs. Charles C.
Harrison, Mrs. Mary L.
Hart, Charles

Hartley, Mrs. Marcellus
Harwood, Miss Julia V.
Hascall, Miss Florence King
Hastings, Mrs. A. F.
Hastings, Chas. F.
Hastings, Mrs. W. C.
Hatch, Miss Nathalie
Hathaway, Charles E.
Haviland, S. W.
Hawley, Edwin

Healey, A. Augustus
Hearn, Arthur H.
Heaton, Mrs. Chas. A.
Hecht, Aaron
Heckscher, John G.
Heene, E.

Heighe, Miss Lisa W.
Heller, Clarence

Heller, Mrs. E. L.
Hellfeld, Miss Anna D.
Hellman, Mrs. Theodore
Hendricks, Charles
Hendricks, Mrs. Charles
Henry, Gustav C.
Hentschel, Charles
Hentz, Henry

Hentz, L. S.

Hentz, Mrs. Mary B.
Hentz, Miss Mary R. .
Hepp, M.D., Chas. Theodore
Herr, Mrs. A.

Herrick, M.D., Everett
Herrmann, Mrs. Esther
Herrmann, Mrs. L.
Herzfeld, Richard
Herzog, Albert

Hess, Mrs. N.

Hess, Selmar

Hesslein, S. A.

Hett, Frank

 

118

     
  
    
   
    
  

Hewitt, Miss Therese
Hewson, J. H.

Heyland, E. A.
Higginson, Miss Dorothy L.
Higginson, Miss Elizabeth B.
Hile, Miss Annie

Hill, Arthur T.

Hill, Miss Florence F.
Hill, Warren E.

Hinton, Miss S. McV.
Hitchcock, Mrs. Welcome G.
Hix, Mrs. Preston

Hoe, Richard M.

Hoe, Mrs. Richard M.
Hoefer, Charles R.

Hoegg, William

Hoffman, F. B.

Hoffmann, Jacob

Hogan, Charles W._
Hohns, Herman
Holbrook, Edward
Holbrook, Mrs. Edward
Holden, Mrs. K. V.
Hollins, Mrs. H. B.
Hollins, Jack Knapp
Hollister, Dr. Frederick K.
Hone, Mrs. Chas. Russell
Hood, David

Hooper, Mrs. N. N ewlin
Hopi, Max G.

Hopkins, H. C.

Hopkins, Mrs. Sheldon
Hopkinson, Miss Jennie M.
Hoppin, Miss F. S.
Hornthal, Lewis M.
Horrmann, Charles
Horrmann, William
Horton, James M.

Horton, Wm. K.
Houghton, Arthur A.
Howe, Wirt

Hoykendorf, Miss Alma
Hoyt, Joseph B.

  




 

    

Huber, Joseph
Hudson, Mrs. Alice P.
Hunt, Charles W.
Huntington, Mrs. C. P.
Hupfel, J. C. G.
Hutchins, Aug. S.
Hutchins, William E.

I

Ibert, Frank
Ingersoll, Miss Maud
Ingersoll, Mrs. Robert G.
Isaacs, David

Isaacs, Gabriel

Iselin, C. Oliver
Iselin, Miss G.

Iselin, Mrs. Wm. E.
Israel, Siegmund
Ives, Miss Pauline
Ives, Wm. Jay

J

Jackson, B. A.

Jackson, F. W.

Jackson, Theo. F.
Jacobsen, Christian Martin
Jacobsen, Mrs. Kristine
Jenks, Mrs. Edward B.
Jennewein, Valentine
Jesup, Charles M.

Jevons, Thomas E.

Jewitt, Mrs. Edward G.
Jex, Miss Emily D.

Jex, Mrs. Josiah
Johnson, A. K.

Johnson, Dr. David S.
Johnson, F. Coit
Johnson, Joseph
Johnston, Mrs. Robert W.
Johnston, William

Jones, Miss Caroline 0.
Jones, Mrs. Cadwalader

119

Jones, Miss Eleanor M.

Jones, Frank

Jones, George H.

Jones,
Stanton

Jones, Miss Julia I.

Jurgens, W. B. A.

K

Kahn, Isidor
Kaltenmier, John

Kane, S. Nicholson
Karr, Mrs. George L.
Keasbey, Robert A.
Keator, Mrs. T. R.
Keech, Mrs. Frank B.

Keene, Mrs. Foxhall P.

Keith, Dr. Horace G.
Kelly, Edward F.

Kelly, Mrs. Emily White
Kelly, Phillip F.

Kelton, Mrs. C. F.
Kemeys, Walter S.
Kendall, Miss Georgiana
Kennedy, Charles W.
Kennedy, William L.
Keppler, Rudolph

Kern, August

Kestler, Bruno B.

Kidd, Miss Georgette
Kimball, Mrs. Alfred R.
Kimball, Miss Rosamund
King, George R.
Kingsley, Mrs. H. S.
Kirk, H. B.

Kirk, Mrs. Harford B.
Klein, C. F.

Knapp, John M.

Knapp, Miss M. M. .
Knickerbocker, Mrs. M. A.
Knoblauch, Charles
Knoblauch, Mrs. Jessie

  

F loyd-, Mrs. Geo.




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

‘ .
l l“ “l

i “ 1‘ ‘illilvi ii #1,

. . WM” H w .

. ‘M‘ 1% .
, g‘wgi, l u
l. . f w llllilllllll‘i “
iii I

l l:
, . J .
I . lr .
i u

 

 

 

Knopf, A. E.
Knopf, Dr. S. A.
Knox, John Mason
Koch, J. Otto
Kohl'man, Charles
Kordes, Henry E.

L

Ladenburg, Mrs. Adolph
Lamb, Mrs. Emma G.
Lambert, Richard
Lamke, John H.
LaMontagne, Mrs. Maurice
Landon, Miss Ruth
Lane, Mrs. James W.
Langdon, Woodbury G.
Langstadter, A.

Lanman, Mrs. Jonathan T.
Lanman, Ludlow Thomas
Lapham, Mrs. John J.
LaRoche, Mrs. P. B.
Latchford, W. L.

Lattin, Homer A.
Lawrence, Cyrus J.
Lawrence, John L.
Lawrence, Mrs. John L.
Lawrence, Mrs. S.
Lawson, Mrs. Emma
Lee, Prof. B. F.

Leeds, John G.

Leeds, Mrs. John G.
Leggett, Francis H.
Lehmaier, James M.
Lehman, Philip
LePiemme, Mme. Louise C.
Leslie, Miss Gertrude
Levy, Aaron

Levy, Bernard

Lewis, H. D.

Lewis, Miss Marguerite
Leyes, Peter

Liebmann, Charles
Linder, Jr., Charles

120

Link, Miss B. Lillian
Lipsius, Mrs. Claus
Liszka, Miss A. F.
Little, Joseph J.
Livingston, Miss Ann L.
Livingston, Mrs. R. E.
Lockman, John T.
Lockwood, William A.
Loeb, S.

Loewi, Edgar

Loewi, Mrs. Edgar
Loewi, Valentine
Loomis, Alfred L.
Lord, Dr. Benjamin
Lord, Miss Couper
Lord, Franklin B.
Lorenz, Mrs. Leo
Lorette, Miss Frances M. V.
Lorich, John

Losee, Charles E.
Low, Miss Nathalie F.
Lowell, Miss C. Russell
Lowther, Charles S.
Lozier, James D.
Ludlow, Banyer
Ludlow, Mrs. James Ogden
Ludwig, Bruno

Lusk, Miss Anna H.
Lydig, Capt. Philip M.
Lyman, George T.
Lyman, Samuel H.
Lynch, Mrs. Jasper
Lyon, Mrs. Dora
Lyons, John P.

M

Mackay, Mrs. B.
Mackay, Mrs. D. Sage
Mackenzie, John
Mackenzie, Miss L.
Mackenzie, Miss M.
Mackenzie, William
Mackey, Miss Helen

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Morris, F ordham
Morris, John B.
Morrison, Mrs. Geo. Austin
Morse, George L.
Morten, Alexander
Morton, Hon. Levi P.
Mott, Miss Ruth S.
Mueller, Miss Anna F.
Muir, James .
Mulholland, John E.
Munroe, Mrs. Chester
Munson, C. W.
Munson, Mrs. C. W.
Murphy, Miss Edna L.
Murray, Robert M.
Murray, Miss Sophia I.
Murtagh, Robert
Myers, George L.
Myers, Miss Lillie
Myers, Miss Mary S.
Myers, Hon. Samuel R.
Mygrant, W. S.

N

Naet‘hing, Mrs. Chas. F.
Namm, Adolph I.
Nathan, Miss Madge
Nelson, Mrs. Walter H.
Neustadt, Sigmund
Nevins, Miss Helen
Newgreen, Miss Emily
Newhall, J. B.

Newton, Miss A. G.
Newton, Mrs. George B.
Nichols, Erickson N.
Nicoll, Miss Annie
Nicoll, Mrs. Benjamin
Nielsen, Charles H.
Nielsen, N. P.

Niles, Mrs. Philip
Niles, Robert Lyman
Noble, Mrs. Elizabeth F.
Noble, Rob’t d.

122

North, Thomas M.
Nostrand, Frank

O

Obermeyer, Theodore
O’Brien, M. J.

Ochs, Ernest

Ogden, W. B.

Olcott, George M.
Oothout, Mrs. William
Ormiston, Mrs. T. W.
Orr, John C.

Osborn, Jr., H. Fairﬁeld
O’Shaughnessy, Nelson J. W.
Otterson, W. Curtis
Oudin, Mrs. Lucien

P

Page, Edward D.

Page, H. S.

Paillord, Mrs. Marie
Palmer, Francis F.
Palmer, F. H.

Palmer, George Q.
Palmer, N. F.

Palmer, Mrs. N. F.
Park, Joseph

Parker, Miss Mary D.
Parmele, Chas. Roome
Parsons, Mrs. Edwin
Parsons, William H.
Peacock, Miss Bertha C.
Pearce, Miss A. C.
Pearsall, Mrs. F. E.
Peilert, Mrs. L.

Pell, J. H.

Pell, Mrs. J. H.

Penfold, Miss Josephine
Pennell, Mrs. G. C.
Perkins, Benjamin
Perkins, Miss Edith Howell
Perkins, Miss Ruth

 




Perry, Dr. John L.
Phelps, Mrs. Anson G.
Phillips, Wm. D.

Phoenix, Lloyd
Pinkerton, Robert A.
Pirie, S. C.

Platt, Willard H.

Playle, Henry A.
Poggenburg, H. F.
Pohalski, H. Percy
Polhemus, Mrs. M. F.
Polk, Mrs. Anderson
Pomroy, Mrs. H. K.
Pool, John H.

Porter, Mrs. Mary A.
Post, Abram S.

Potter, Mrs. Geo. M.
Potter, Miss Helen F.
Powell, Miss Mary Page
Powers, Mrs. Maud Holden
Prescott, Mrs. Annie E.
Preston, Mrs. Geo. Rutledge
Preston, Ralph J.
Proctor, Miss H. F.
Prout, Dr. J. S.

Prout, Mrs. J. S.

Pryer, Miss A. C.

Purdy, J. H.

Putnam, Geo. L.

Pyne, Mrs. Moses Taylor

Q
Quimby, Frank P.
Quin, Louis
Quinlan, Thos. F.
Quinlan, William
Quintard, George W.

R
Rader, Gustavus W.
Ramsay, Miss Grace S.
Rand, George C.
Ranney, Mrs. Helen E.

123

Rapallo, Mrs. Edward S.
Raphael, H.

Rathbone, R. C.

Raub, Herman
Raymond, Charles H.
Raynor, Miss Florence
Read, Wm. A.

Reed, Mrs. Richard H.
Reid, Miss Katherine
Reimer, 'Ot‘to E.
Remsen, Miss Margaret S.
Renwick, William W.
Renter, Albert
Reynolds, Chas. H.
Rice, Jesse I.

Richards, Auguste
Riker, Samuel ,

Ring, Mrs. Chas. E.
Ring, Miss M. L.
Rinschler, Frank

Robb, Mrs. Alexander
Roberts, Miss Mary M.
Robinson, Mrs. C. L. H.
Roden, Caplt. George
Rodewald, F. L.
Roemmele, Jr., Fred.
Roesler, August
Rogers, Wm. E.
Rokenbaugh, Henry S.
Rolston, William H.
Ronalds, Geo. L.
Roome, W. Harris
Rose, W. B.
Rosenbaum, Mrs. Helen
Rosenthal, Robert J.
Rosenwald, Sigmund
Ross, William B.
Rossbach, Jacob
Rossiter, Arthur W.
Roth, George

Rowland, J. H.
Rowland, Thomas Fitch
Rowland, Jr., Thomas Fitch

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Russell, Henry H.

Russell, Mrs. James Towns’d

Ryan, Joseph T.

S

St. John, Wm. M.

Salters, Mrs. Wm. T.
Sander, Leo

Satterlee, Mrs. Herbert L.
Schaefer, Charles
Schelling, Paul

Schenck, Miss Florence A.

Scheuer, Charles
Schick, Philipp

Schiffer, Miss Adelaide M.

Schleiermacher, Christian
Schloss, Alexander P.
Schmadeke, John F.
Schmidt, Mrs. John A.
Schmitt, Mrs. Joseph
Schnurmacher, J.
Scholer, Dr. Gustav
Scholle, Samuel
Schrader, Miss Emma
Schrader, George
Schultz, Carl H.

Schurz, Carl L.

Schurz, Miss Marianne
Scott, Miss Anita

Scott, Mrs. Winﬁeld
Seabury, George J.

Sears, Miss Cathryn
Seccomb, Miss Bertha H.
Seccomb, Mrs. E. A.

. Sedgwick, Robert

Segaller, Phil

Segree, Mrs. P.
Seligman, Miss Alice F.
Seligman, Isaac N.
Seligman, Mrs. Jesse
Seligman, Miss Madeline
Selvage, Mrs. Edwin
Semler, George

    

124

     
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 

Seybel, D. E.

Sheldon, Jr., Henry K.
Sheldon, Mrs. Henry K.
Sheldon, James

Sheldon, Mrs. James
Sheldon, James O.
Sheldon, William C.
Shepard, Dr. A. W.
Sherman, Mrs. Charles E.
She‘thar, Mrs. Edwin Hall
Shipman, Nelson

Shivler, Charles S.
Shriver, Mrs. Harry T.
Shults, John H.

Sickels, David B.
Sidenberg, G.

Siegel, John R.
Siegman, Edward
Siegman, Richard
Siemer, John A.

Silver, Mrs. Charles A.
Simons, Jr., Charles D.
Sinclair, John J.

Skene, Mrs. Alexander J. C.
Slade, Mrs. Wm. Gerry
Sloane, Henry T.

Small, Miss Blanche D.
Smart, Mrs. F. R.
Smith, Mrs. A. B.

Smith, Mrs. Andrew A.
Smith, A. W.

Smith, Mrs. A. W.
Smith, Mrs. Andrew W.
Smith, George C.
Smith, Henry A.

Smith, J. Campbell
Smith, James Rufus
Smith, Joseph F.

Smith, Mrs. L. J.

Smith, Mrs. M. Adele
Smith, Thomas Bradley
Smith, William Alexander
Smith, Mrs. Wm. Alex.




125

Snow, E. G.
Snyder, James
Solomon, Robert G.
Sooysmith, Charles
Spencer, F. G.
Spencer, Jr., Lorillard
Spencer, Jr., Mrs. Lorillard
Speyer, Mrs. James
Spring, Miss Anna R.
Spruck, Henry
Stafford, Mrs; W. F.
Standish, Myles
Stanley, Joseph
Stanton, John R.
Stanton, Mrs. John
Stanton, Miss Julia C.
Stein, A. M.
Stein, Conrad
Stephens, John H.
Stephens, William L.
Stern, Arthur
Stern, Benjamin
Steurer, Miss Anna
Stewart, Hugh
Stewart, Thomas J.
Stewart, William Rhinelander
Stewart, Mrs. Wm. Rhine-
lander
Stickney, J.
Stickney, Mrs. Joseph
Stillman, Miss C. F.
Stillman, Mrs. E. P.
Stillman, Thomas E.
Stokes, Anson Phelps
Stokes, Miss Dorothy
Stokes, Mrs. Horace
Stone, Edwin
Storm, Miss Edna G.
Stover, Miss Harriet C.
Strauss, Albert
Strauss, Frederick
Strauss, Gustave
Strauss, Mrs. Jacob

Strauss, Samuel

Streat, James

Street, Mrs. C. F.

Street, Mrs. M. K.

Sturges, Miss May F.

Sturmdorf, Dr. Arnold

Sturmdorf, Mrs. Arnold

Sullivan, Mrs. Catharine A.

Sulzbacher, Oscar W.

Sutro, Lionel

Sutro, Richard

Sutton, Mrs. Gregory

Sutton, James F.

Suydam, Walter L.

Swahn, Master Alfred D.

Swahn, Mrs. Fanny Darri—
grand

Swahn, Geo. W.

Swayne, Alfred H.

Swift, Dr. E. E.

Swords, Miss P. Caroline

Symington, Wm. H. Harris

T

Taber, Miss Mary

Tailer, William H.
Tanenbaum, Moses
Tappan, Herman

Tappin, Charles L.

Taylor, Mrs. A. E. Scranton
Taylor, Gilbert P.

Taylor, Mrs. Moses
Taylor, Thomas F.
Thomas, Frederic C.
Thomason, Frederic B.
Thompson, Edward P.
Thompson, Mrs. H. C.
Thompson, Miss Rhoda
Thompson, Mrs. Robert M.
Thompson, Mrs. Samuel C.
Thorburn, Mrs. Louise
Thorn, G. R. Hallett

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Thorne, Miss Phebe Anna
Thorne, Mrs. T. W.
Thorne, W. V. S.
Thouron, Mrs. E. A.
Thurnauer, Felix
Tiedemann, F.

Tierney, Mrs. F. A.
Tilford, Mrs. Charles E.
Tilford, Mrs. Frank
Tilford, Miss Julia
Timolat, James G.
Toby, Geo. P.
Toedteberg, Miss Emma
Townshend, John
Trask, G. D. S.

Travis, George E.
Truog, Mrs. Randolph
Truss, Mrs. Darwin W.
Tucker, Mrs. R. S.
Tuckerman, Alfred
Tuckerman, Mrs. Alfred

U

Ubsdell, John A.
Ullmann, E. S.
Ulric‘h, William
Ulrichs, Thomas
Ulshoeffer, W. G.
Underhill, Eugene

V

Valentine, Mrs. A. C.
Valentine, R. B.
Van Beuren, Michael M.

Van Beuren,Mrs. Michael M.

Van Bossanyi, Fred.
Van Buren, Mrs. H. M.
Van Der Roest, Geo.
Van Ingen, Miss Anne
Van Ingen, Mrs. E. H.
Van Ness, J. Newton
Van Nest, Mrs. Alex. T.

126

Van Orden, Miss Anna
Van Orden, Miss Mary L.
Van Tine, Mrs. J. H.

Van Volkenburgh, Miss S. E.
Van Winkle, Edgar B.
Vaughan, Wm. J.

Veith, Mrs. H. F.

Vietor, Mrs. George F.
Vietor, Mrs. Theodore G.
Villard, Oswald Garrison
Vollkommer, Joseph

W

Wade, William D.
Wagner, Frederick C.
Wagner, Louis C.
Wainwright, Hon. J. MayheW
Wainwright, Richard T.
Walker, Joseph

Walker, Mrs. W. M.
Wallace, John

Walser, Dr. William C.
Wandell, Townsend

Ward, Mrs. F. A. B.
Ward, Jr., Mrs. John Seely
Ward, L. B.

Warde, J. S.

Wasserman, Mrs. E.
Waters, V. 5., Dr. E.
Watkins, Mrs. Alfred
Watkinson, Mrs. Louise V.
Watson, Mrs. James 0.
Watson, Mrs. W. E.
Weatherbee, Edwin H.
Weatherbee, Mrs. J.
Weber, Joseph

Weekes, Arthur D.
Weeks, T. W.

Weil, Jacob

Weil, Leopold‘

Weil, Lewis

Welch, David

 




 

    

Wells, Miss Julia Chester
Welz, John

Wendell, Mrs. Gordon
Wenman, James F.
Werner, Mrs. Henry
Westcott, Miss Thalia
Whalen, Richard
Wharton, Mrs. Edward R.
Wheeler, Schuyler Skaats
White, Horace

White, Mrs. Jno. J.

White, Miss Louise L.
White, Miss May W.
White, S. V.
Whitehouse, George M.
Whiting, Miss Gertrude
Whiting, Miss Matilda M.
Wicke, William

Wickett, S. G.

Wiener, Dr. Joseph
Wilcox, William G.
Wiley, Samuel

Wilhelm, Mrs. Emily
Wilkins, Morris

Willard, Miss Mary L.
Willcox, David

Williams, Mrs. E. P.
Williams, Mrs. H. K. S.
Williston, A. F.
Williston, 2d, C. L.
Williston, Mrs. C. L.
Williston, Henry B.
Willson, Charles Hill
Wilson, Miss Elizabeth B.
Wilson, Mrs. Frank
Wilson, Gen. James Grant

:27

Wilson, Miss Jane M.
Wilson, M. Orme
Wilson, Maris

Wilson, Washington
Winans, Miss Isabel T.
Winans, Miss S. 5.
Wing, L. Stuart

Wing, Mrs. L. Stuart
Winter, Mrs. Katharine
Winthrop, Mrs. Grenville
Winthrop, Master Grenville
Wissel, Andrew

Witte, Charles G.

Witte, William F.

Wolf, Mrs. John

Wolff, Lewis S.

Wood, Mrs. Henry Duncan
Wood, Mrs. James
Wood, Mrs. O. S.
Woodruff, Henry G.
Woolley, William Edgar
Woolverton, William H.
Wooster, Mrs. Emma C.
Wright, Miss Harriet
Wyckoff, Peter

Wyman, Miss Esther

Y

Yeisley, Rev. George C.
Young, Dr. John J.

Z

Ziegler, Henry
Zimmerman, Mrs. J. E.
Zittel, Frederick

 




 

 

 

 

    
 
 
     
     
     
   
   
    
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

®bituarx2 1Recorb

 
 

The Society mourns the loss of twenty-two mem-
bers of whose death it has been notiﬁed during the
year 1902, viz. :

 

BENEDICT, MISS LAURA
BLISS, JUSTIN A.
BRAIDICH, A. F.
CLAUSEN, HENRY

DE LUZE, FRANCISCO O.
FAIRBANKS, MRS. L.
FORD, MALCOLM W.
FRANZREB, JOHN
GODKIN, LAWRENCE
GOODRIDGE, MRS. FREDERIC
LAIDLAW, HENRY B.
MCGOVERN, REV. PATRICK
MEEKER, DR. C. H.

OWEN, MRS. THOMAS J.
PATTERSON, THOMAS J.
ROSENWALD, HENRY
ROSENWALD, ISAAC

ROUSS, C. BROADWAY
TIFFANY, CHARLES L.

WAIT, MRS. ALICE H.
WESTON, MRS. R. W.
WINTER, GEORGE

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

C
Calhoun, Henry W ....... $15
Cammann, Miss I. M ..... 5
Carnegie, Mrs. Andrew” Ioo
Carpenter, Miss Agnes... Io
Carscallen, Mrs. J. D. . .. 6
Carter, Walter S ......... IO
Cary, Miss Ellen G ....... 6o
Cary, Mrs. W. F ........ 5
“ Cash ” ................ 5o
“ Caslh ” ................. 10
“ Cash ” ................. 5
Castree, Miss Louise ..... Io
Cathcart, Miss Jane R. . . . 50

Chamberlain, Mrs. M. H. I
Chatry, Mrs. Raymond J. 2
Chisholm, Mrs. Wm. En Ioo

C'hreiman, Miss M. An” 5
Chrome Steel Works. .. . . 5
Clark, Mrs ............... I
Clark, Mrs. C. F ......... 5
Clark, Miss Ella Mabel” Io
Cockran, W. Bourke.... 25
Cole, E, H ............... Io
Colgate, A. W ........... 10
Colgate, Mrs. A. W ...... 5
Collord, George W ....... 5
Colton, George W ....... 5
Congress Brewing Co.--- 5
Conway, M. D ........... 5
Corning, C, R ............ 5
Cowen, Mrs. Anna ------- I

Coyle, Miss Antoinette. - - I

Cravath, Mrs. Paul D.... 20
Crosby, Mrs. Edward N- 5
Crosby, Miss M. E ------- 5
Cross—Austin & Ireland
Lumber Co ............ 5 '
Cross, Mrs. Frances E. . . . 25

Cunningham, Mrs. J. W. . 5
D
Dalhn & Son, John A ..... 5
Daly, H, F ............... 25
Daly, Mrs. H. F........ 25
Davenport, Ira ........... Io
Davidson, Miss Clara, Pro-
ceeds of “ Bird Talk” at
Larchmont ............ 195
Davis, Mrs. C ........... 2
Davis, Gherardi .......... IO

Davisson, R. G... ....... 5

130

00
OO
00
OO

50
00
00
00

Dayton, Byron S ......... $1 00
De Forest, Miss Caroline. 10 00
Derby, Mrs. R. H ........ IO 00
Destin, Miss Lottie Y.. .. 2 00
Devoe, ............ Io 00
Dick, Mrs. W. B ......... 10 oo
Dick, Mrs. W. B. (for

fountain), “In Memory

of Wm. B. Dick” ..... 250 00
Dillon, John F ........... 5 oo
Dillon, Miss Mary ....... I 00
Dodge, Norman W ------ 25 oo
Dolan, Sr., James -------- 5 oo
Donigan, John M ........ 5 oo
Dows, Mrs. David ------- 25 00
Dreier, H, E ............ 5 oo
“ D T W” .............. 5 oo
Duane, J M ............. 10 00
Dufﬁe, Mrs. Mary A ----- 2 oo
Dunning, H. A .......... 5 oo
Durand, Harvey ......... 5 00
Durk, Miss Laura V ------ 5 oo
Dyer, E. Tiffany ......... IO 00

E

Eagle, Clarence H ....... 2 00
Eastern Brewing Co ----- 5 oo
Eastman, Joseph ......... 100 00
Eaton, Mrs. D. Cady ----- IO 00
Edwards Mrs. Alhed L.. 25 co
Eger, Mrs T. G --------- 5 oo
Eger, Mrs. T. G. “ In

Memory of Mrs. H. Eger

C016 n ................. 5 00
Eldridge, Lewis A ------- oo
Ellis, Mrs. John S. (for

fountains) ............. 430 00
Ellis, Wm. D ............ 20 oo
Ellison, William B ------ 5 oo
Ellsworth, Mrs. J. W... 5 CO
Elson B F .............. 2 oo
Ely, Cheever N ---------- IO 00
Endicott, Mrs. Robert- 5 oo
Eppig, Joseph ........... 5 00

F

Fagnani, Charles P ------- 3 00
Fairchild, Charles ........ 20 oo
Fallert’ s Brewing Co., Jos. 5 oo

 

 




 

 

Farmers’ Feed Co..... $5

Fassitt, Miss Amelia A. .. 5
Finck, Mrs. Henry T.... 5
Fisk, Harvey Edward... 10
Flanegan, James .......... 4
Fletcher, Isaac D ........ 5
Flint, Mrs. Charles Run 15
Foote, Dr. E. B .......... 5
Forepaugh, Miss Lily. . .. 5
Foster, Mrs. H. E ........ 2
Frank Brewing C0., W.H. 5
Fraser, Alexander W -----

Frese, Estate of Charles”

Freund, Fred. C ----------

Fries Coal C0., Fred...
From “J G” ............ 1

5
5
2
“Friend of the Horse, A ” 2
5
. 0
From “ Little Billie ” . . . . I

G

Gagen, J. H ............. I
Garrison, C, M .......... 5
Garrison, Mrs. E. Ely.... Io
Gasper, Mrs. J. Beach... IO

Gates, Miss Charlotte G-- 7
Gatter, Miss Georgia ..... 5
Gibbes, Miss Zela -------- 20
Gilford, Samuel T ........ 5
Gillet, Ransom H ........ 2
Gitterman, John Milton
(for fountain), “ In
Memory ‘ of Simon
Sterne ” ............. 250
Glatz, Mrs. Pauline ...... 5
Goin, Mrs. James D ...... 5
Goodrich, George Selden. 5

Goodrich, Mrs. Thomas F. 5
Graham, Miss Mary Doug-
lass ................... 10

Grant, Miss Lilian. “ In
Loving Memory of Bon-
nie ” .................. 2
Gray, Mrs. George Za—
briskie ............... 5
Gray, H, VV ............. 15

Gray, Niel, Treas., S. P. C.

A., of Oswego City.... 5
Green, William ---------- 15
Grifﬁths, George H ....... 5

Grinnell, Mrs. Wm. Mor—

ten .................... 5 r:

I 31
oo Griswold, Mrs. George... $10
00 Gurnee, Miss Delia ...... 5
00
00 H
00 Ham, Miss Abbie L ..... 2
00 Ham, James M .......... 5
00 Hammersly, Mrs. J.

00 Hooker ............... IO
00 Hankinson, W. H ....... 2
oo Hann, Mrs. G. V ......... 2
00 Hanshew, Dr. E ......... 5
00 Hard, Miss Laura VV.... 20
00 Hardy, James ............ IO
00 Hardy, Voorhees & Con 20
00 Harkness, Mrs. S. V ..... 25
00 Harrison, Mrs. Mary L. - . 70
00 Hart, George H ......... 5
oo Hart & Sons, P .......... IO
Hartley, Mrs. Marcellus” 20
Hastings, J, M .......... 5
Hawley, Miss Jessie O. - - I
Hay, Mrs, J .............. 1
Haydon, J. C ............ 10
00 Hearn & Son, James A” 25
00 Heckscher, Mrs. A ....... 5
00 Heckscher, John G ...... 5
00 Hedden, Mrs. Mary D... IO
00 Heenan, Mrs. Mary ...... I
00 Heissenbuttell & Nearing 5
00 Heller, Clarence .......... 5
00 Hendricks, Edmund ...... IO
50 Herr, Mrs. A ............ 2
Hile, Miss Annie ........ 2
Hiltman, Miss R. L ...... 2
Hinkel, Miss Minna ...... 5
00 Hoe, Richard M ......... 5
00' Hoe. Mr. and Mrs. Rich—
Oo ard M ................. 20
00 Hoecker, J. B ............ IO
00 Hoffman, Miss D. W. .. . IO
Hoffman, Mrs. W. B ..... 5
00 Hofstra, Mrs. W. S ------ 5
Holden, Mrs. K. V ....... 15
. Holland, Mrs. Helen M” 3
00 Hoppin, Wm. Warner. .. . IO
Hornthal, L. M., “In
00 Memory of Max and
00 Sophia Hornthal” ----- 5
Hosch. F ............... 5
00 Hunt, 1013 L ............. I
00 Hupfel Brewing C0., J. C.
00 G. .................... 5
Hyatt, Miss Carrie L. De
3 G. .................... 30

l
l
l >
. I,
1.
. ‘.
l ‘
l i
i‘ ‘l
i I l
‘ l
l
‘ l
w;
2 ‘ l
l l
I. f
l
‘ l
,l
‘1 l V
. l.
l
l.
.1 . J
l
l' v‘
. i ‘i
‘ l
i l l
l
l
l . l
. ‘ r
, 5
l.
( vi
l
l
\ ‘ i.
i ‘l
4
,i
i.‘
l l,
‘ l
l w
. J . 5
l
i‘ ; “
l
l ,‘ '
. l H
l
l
t w
l 'i
l yu
‘
l 1
I .
l i
“ A l.
i).
l
‘ l
... .
l
. l
. n
H l
‘1
l 1'"
l u
, l ‘
lu
. H”?
M
,.
l
l
,
, \
,l
,
l
‘” i'll
l H
‘1
l ‘.
H
9'}
H
l, “‘1'
‘ ll}
‘ il.
l l
, l‘ M“
l
. ‘. i ‘1
‘ l
‘ v
u
M
. ‘
‘ln
H.
,.
‘ .
,
l l
‘ 5“
l
l l
M
m
M?”
“4
Mil
M”
l 1,“):
l ,I
H.
Hw
‘ul.
Ml
“M:
Hi.
I l
4‘1‘
‘ ‘l
l“
l
l ,
. .,y
.r‘
. r
l.
H»
l l
w
l‘i
‘ I!
m
l“,'
it
“l
I
i.
‘i
M‘ ‘v
‘ A,“ i
ll:
I
l
. w
‘ .;
‘ ‘lili 1
W, i' i
W‘
l ‘1‘
.‘ .
1
h
.1“
I“
lr l
‘ .
lUH‘
H.“
l ll‘l
. mix
I. m‘
,1 '
l l
‘ .
i ‘i.
v .
'1. ‘1‘”
. l
‘ >‘l‘
l l l
l
. l 1
y..‘ .
M‘
l mm
i
l i l
l l
‘li ‘
1 r
,l
H
I“
ll‘l
‘l
Vi ‘

i
if”

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

I
Iselin, Adrian ............ $100
Iselin, Miss Louise M. 20
Iselin, Miss Therese ------ 20
Itgen, E. H .............. 5
J
Jackson, A. V. Williams” 4
Jacob, Charles ........... 5
Jaquins, Mrs. Edward... I
Jay, Mrs. John C ......... 2
“ J D. W.” .............. 5
Jevons, Thomas E ------ 20
Jex, Miss Emily D ...... 25
Johnson, Joseph ......... 5
Johnson, Dr. S. .. .. 200
Jones, A. H .............. 5
Joseph, Mrs. L.......... 10
K
Keeney, G. I ..... . ...... 2
Keeney, Mrs. G, I ........ 17
Kelsey & Loughlin ....... 5
Kemeys, Mr. and Mrs.
Walter S ............... IO
Kent, Mrs. T. F .......... 2
Kenyin, Mrs. D. L ....... 5
King, Miss Ellen ........ 10
Kip, Mrs. Henry S ....... 10
Kipling, Miss Adeline M. 2
Koster & Weber ......... 5
L
LaForge, James ......... I

Laidlaw, Mrs. Henry Bu 5
Lane, Mrs. James Warren 5

Langler & Sons, N ....... 5
Lansing, Mrs. A. B ...... 15
Lanx, Mrs. Kate ......... I
Lapham, Mrs. J. J ....... 25
Lawrence, Mrs. G A ----- I
Lee, Mrs. J. L ........... 15
Lee, S. “ In Memory of
Tip” .................. Io
Lehman, Philip .......... 5

Leslie, Miss Gertrude---- 5

 

132

00

00
00

00
00
00
00
00
00
00
00
00

00
00
00

Lewis,Mrs. Harry Dickin-

son .................... $30
Lincoln, Mr. and Mrs.

Lowell ................ 10
Lindsley, Miss Emily V. . 5
Lins & Sons, H .......... 5

Livingston, Miss Ann L. - 100
Livingston, Miss Ann L.,
“ In Memoriam Bonny-
belle ”
Livingston, Mrs. H. T. - - - 5
Livingston, John Henry.-
Livingston, Mrs. Philip. . . 5

nnnnnnnnnnnnnnnn

Lockitt’s Sons, Geo ...... 5
Lockwood, Williston B” IO
Lofthouse, Miss M. E..- 25
Low, Mrs. J. T. (for foun—
tain), “ In Memoriam
Oliver Harriman Low” 250
Ludington, C. H ......... 5
“ Ludlow & Jack” ....... 5
M
Mackay, Archibald K...- IO
Maffett, Mrs. J ........... 5
Mager, Mrs. F. Robert.. . IO
Marston & Son .......... 5
Martin,C,C............. 5
Matthews, The Firm of
John ................ 5
May, Levy & May ........ IO
McCurdy, Mrs. Richard A. 20
McCurdy, Robert H ...... 150
McEwen, D. C ----------- Io
McKendrick, Miss C. F” 5
McKenzie & O’Neill ..... I
McRoberts, Mary L ...... 5
Meeker, Dr. C. H ....... 200
Meeker, Mrs. Mary E...- 200
Meltzer Bros ............
Merritt, Mrs. Julia ....... 100
Merritt, Mrs. M. E ....... 5
Meserole, Mrs. S. V ...... 25
Milbank, Joseph ......... 100
Milbank, Mrs. Joseph.-.. 50
Miller, Allen S ----------- 2
Miller, Mrs. Elizabeth
Smith ................. 15

Mitchell, John Murray... 5
“ M. M ” ................ 5

Mollenhauer Sugar Reﬁn-
ing Co ................. 5
Moran, Mrs. Annie A.... 5

00
OO

00

00
00
00
00
OO
00
00

00
00

 




 

Morgan, George H ....... $5
Morton & Sons, Jo'hn..-- 5
Moses, Miss Vera McF- - . 5
Mueller, Miss Anna Fu- 2

Murphy, The Misses ...... 5

Murray, Mrs. J T ....... 50
N

Nassau Brewing Co ...... IO

Nesbit, Miss J. L ........ 5

Newton, A, J ............ 5

Nichols, Mrs. Mary B. -. . 4

Nicoll, Mrs. Benjamin... 15
Niles, Mrs. Philip ........ 25
Nordbruc‘h, H ........... I
Nourse, Mrs, C, J ........ 5
Noyes, Mrs. H. D ....... 4
Nutty, Mrs. Robert, “In
Memoriam Miss Annie
Nutty.” ............... 5
O
O’Donnell, Charles ....... 5
Olip'hant, Mrs. A C ...... 10
Olmsted, Mrs. C‘has. Tyler IO
Opdycke, Mrs. E ......... 5
Ovitt, Albert B ---------- I
P
Page, H. S ............... 20
Parr, William P .......... 5
Parrish, Miss H .......... 5
Parsons, Mrs. Edwin ..... 25
Pearson, Mrs. F --------- IO
Penfold, Miss Josephine” 20
Perkins, George W ...... 15
Perkins, Miss Ruth ...... 20
Perry, Dr. John G ------ 40
Phelps, Mrs. Anson G.... 5
Pierando, Miss R -------- I
Platt, Isaac S ------------ IO
Plaut, S. and H ......... 5

Poirier, Mrs. Edmond - - . . I

Pomeroy, Mrs. H. Km 50
Potter, R. Burnside ...... 5
Powell. D. B ............. 10
Pratt, Miss Marion ------- I
Pryer, Miss A. C ......... IO
Pryor, Mrs. T. L ...... . ..

133

OO
00
00
00

00
00
00
00
OO
00
OO

00

00
00
00
00
00

oo
oo
00
oo
00
00
00
OO
00
oo
50
00
OO
00
OO
00
oo
oo
00

50

Purdy, M. E ............. $2 00
Pyle & Sons, James ...... IO 00
R
Rabe, Dr, F ............. 10 00
Rathbone, Mrs. Albert. .. 5 00
Read, William A ......... 25 00
Redmond, G. H .......... 25 oo
Reese, Mrs. W. H -------- 5 oo
Rehan, Miss Ada --------- 5 00
Remensnyder, Rev. J. B. - I 00
Riker, Samuel ------------ 25 00
Ring, Miss M. L -------- 45 00
Robb, Mrs. Alexander” . 5 00
Robbins, Mrs. Milton. . .. 200 00
Roberts, John W --------- 5 00
Robinson, Mrs. J. A.. 5 oo
Roby, E. Willard ......... 5 oo
Rockwell, Mrs. J. W ..... 2,500 00
Roesler, Mrs. A .......... 5 00
Rosebault, Charles J ----- 2 oo
Rosebault, Mrs. Charles J. 2 00
Rubsam & Horrmann. . . . IO 00
Rushmore, I. W ......... 5 00
S
S-adler, Leo .............. 5 00
Scarborough, F. S ------- 5 00
Schaefer Brewing Co ..... 15 00
Schaefer, Charles ......... 5 00
Schefer, Mrs. Carl ........ 5 00

Schermerhorn, Mrs. John

W. ................... 100 00
Sc‘hieffelin, C. T ......... 5 00
Schley, Mrs. Wm. T ..... 5 00
Schramm, William ....... 5 oo
Schwab, Mrs. Gustav ..... 5 oo
Seccomb, Mrs. E. A ...... IO 00
Seitz, M ................. 5 oo
Seligman, DeWitt J ...... 25 00
Seligman, Isaac N ------- 20 00
Seligman, Jefferson ...... 100 00
Seligman, Mrs. Jesse ..... IO 00
Seligman, Miss Madeline. 5 00
“ S, E, W” .............. 100 00

Sexton, Mrs. Wm. Lord. . IO 00

Sherman, Mrs. Charles E. IO 00
Shipman, Nelson ......... 2o 00
Singer, M. ............ 5 00
Sloane, Henry T ......... 15 00
Small, Miss Blanche D. . . 6 00

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Smith, Mrs. Charles D... $20
Smith, Cornelius B ...... 5
Smith, E. M ............. I
Smith, Mrs. E. L ....... 10
Smith, Henry E .......... 5
Smith, James Rufus ...... 5
Smith, Mrs. Joseph A... 5
Smith, Mrs. Mary ........ I
Spence, Miss Clara B..-. I00
Stafford, Mrs. W. F ...... Io
Stein, A. M .............. 5
Stephens, Benjamin ...... 5
Stern, Arthur ............ 20
Stickney, Joseph ......... 20
Still, John A ............. 5

Stokes, Anson Phelps... 15

Stone, Mrs. George F.... 10
Strack, Miss ............. I
Strong, Theron G -------- 20
Sturdy, J W ............. 1
Stutz, Louis ............. 5
Swift, Mrs. Fred --------- IO

Symington, Robert B . . - . 5

T
Tappin, Charles L ........ 15
Taylor, Thomas .......... I
Tesla, Nikola ............ 5

Thiele, E ................ 5
Thomas, Mrs. Ludlowu- 5
ThPompson, Mrs. Frederick

.................... 50
Thompson, Mrs. H. C-- 5
Thompson, Mrs. Samuel

C. .................... 40
Thompson & Co --------- 5
Thorn, G. R. Hallett ----- 5
T‘horne, Miss Phebe Ann. 20
T'horne, W. V. S --------- 5
Tiedjen, Mrs. Paul ....... I
Tilford, Mrs. Frank ...... 25
Tilford, Miss Julia ....... 20
Tisdale, Mrs. S. B ...... I
Titus, Mrs. A. L ......... IO

Topham, Miss A. E. “In
Memory of Poppy and
Little Ned” ........... 5

Travers, Mrs. E. Montagu 3

Tuckerman, Mr. and Mrs.
Paul .................. 10

Turner, Miss E. J-: ------ I

U
Ulmer Brewery, Wm.... $5
U. S. Bung Manufacturing
Co. ................... 5
V
Valentine, Mrs. A. C ----- IO
Vallens, Eugene .......... 5
Van Dyke, Miss Dorothea I

Van Dyke, Mrs. Henry. . . 10

Van Pelt, G S ........... 5

Von Post, H. C .......... 20
W

Wagner, Miss L. V ------ I

Walker, Roberts --------- 20

Wallace, Wm. H ........ 5

Walton, G. A ............ Io

VVarburg, F. A., “ Savings
of Carola, Frederick &
Gerald ” .............. 25
Wassermann, Mrs. Edw- 5
Watson, Mrs. James O. . . 10

Watson, Mrs. W. E ----- 2
Wells, Mrs. F. C --------- 2
Wells, Miss Julia Chester. IO
Wells, Mrs. O. J ......... 5
West, Mrs. Elizabeth M 5

Wetmor,e Mrs. W. B. 5
Wheeler, Miss E. M ..... 5
Wheeler, James R ....... 10
White, A, M ............ 5
White, John J ........... 75
White, Jr., John J ....... 25
White, Miss May W ...... 25
White, Miss May W. (for
fountain) .............. 250
White, Mrs. Stanford - IO

Whiting, Miss Gertrude Io
Whittlesey, Miss Winifred
H

.................... 5
Wilde’s Sons Samuel 10
Williams, Mrs PerryP 5
Williamson, Mrs. D. D” 6
Wilson, Edward .......... 25

Winans, Miss Isabel. . . 6

 
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
    
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
    
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
 

OO

00

 




 

I35

Winans, Miss M. An- Wright, Miss Harriet... . $5 00
toinette ............... $5 00 Wunder, Frederick ....... 5 00

Wing, Isaac H ........... 100 00

Winship, L. A ----------- 40 oo

Winthrop, Miss Marie. - .. 25 00 Y

Wolff, Lewis S ---------- 5 00

Wolff, Wm. Arnoldi ------ 5 00 Young, R ................ I 00

Wood, Mrs. C. B -------- 50 00

Wood, Mrs. O. S ........ 5 00

Woodward, James T ..... IO 00 Z

Woodward, Robert B- -- . IO 00

Woolson, Ira H ---------- 2 00 Ziegler, Henry ........... 5 00

Wray, Miss Susan H.... 5 00 Zimmerman, Mrs. J. E” 5 00

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

    
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
    

CENTURY FUND.

SUBSCRIBERS TO THE “CENTURY FUND” DONATE $100
ANNUALLY TOWARDS DEFRAYING THE GENERAL
EXPENSES OF THE SOCIETY, AND MAY DISCONTINUE
THEIR SUBSCRIPTIONS AT ANY TIME.

 

American Express CO.
Archbold, John D.
EnO, William P.
Haines, John P.
Horner & CO., R. J.
Hyde, Mrs. W. Truslow
Merritt, Mrs. Julia
Rhinelander, Miss S.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

CALIFORNIA—CO”.
Oakland . . .
Redlands . . .
Santa Barbara .
Santa Cruz . .
Fresno . . . .
Sausalito . . .

COLORADO.

Denver . . .
Colorado Springs

CONNECTICUT.
Hartford . . . .
New Haven .
Meriden . . . .

DELAWARE.
Wilmington . . .

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA
Washington . . .

FLORIDA.

St. Augustine. . .
Jacksonville . .
Pensacola . . .
Tampa . . . . .

GEORGIA.

Augusta .
Atlanta . .
Brunswick .

ILLINOIS.

Chicago . .
Rockford

Quincy . .
Shelbyville .
Champaign
Springﬁeld .

 

Oakland S. P C A. . .
S. P. C. A. of San Bernardino County, Cal. .
Santa Barbara Humane Society* . . . .
Santa Cruz County Humane Society . .
Fresno S. P. C. A. . . . .

Marin County S. P. C. A .

Colorado Humane Society * 'l'. .
El Paso CO. Branc'h Colorado Humane Soc.

Connecticut Humane Society .
The New Haven S. P. C. A.
Meriden Humane Society .

Delaware S. P. C. A. . . . . .
The Washington Humane Society};

St. Augustine Humane Society.
The Jacksonville S. P. C. A.
Humane Society .

Hillsborough County S. P. C. A.

Georgia S. P. C. A.*
Atlanta Humane Society .
Brunswick Humane Society .

The Illinois Humane Society*

Winnebago Co. Branch Illinois Humane SOC.
The Quincy Humane Society .

The Shelby Co. Br. of the Ill. Humane Soc.

Champaign Branch Illinois Humane Society .

The Humane Society of Springﬁeld . . . .

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




“ﬁlm

1“
1 1‘
ii“

“111‘“

1
m m 1

l

 

‘l ll

lllii‘ll

ILLINOIS. —Continued.
Jacksonville . . .
Jerseyville . . . .
Harvard . . . .
Danville . . . .
Whitehall . . . .

INDIANA.
Indianapolis . . .
Crawfordsville . .
Evansville . . . .
Fort Wayne . . .
South Bend . . .
Terre Haute .
Muncie . . . .
Elkhart . . . . .
Richmond . . . .
Peru . . . . . .
Kokomo . . .

IOWA.

Des Moines . . .
Sioux City . . . .

KANSAS.

Wichita . . . . .
Topeka . . . . .

KENTUCKY.
Louisville . . . .
Henderson . . .
Frankfort . . . .
Covington . . . .
Lexington . . .

LOUISIANA.

New Orleans . . .

 

Jacksonville Humane Society . .

The Jerseyville Humane S. P. C. A. & C.
Harvard Branch of The Illinois Humane Soc

United States Humane Society .
White-hall Humane Society . . .

The Indiana Humane Society . .

Montgomery Co. Humane S. P. C. A.
The Evansville Humane S. P. C. W.,

Fort Wayne Humane Society. .
The South Bend Humane Society
Terre Haute Humane Society. .
Muncie Humane Society . . .
Elkhart Humane Society .

Wayne County Humane Society
The Humane Society of Peru, Ind.
Kokomo Humane Society . .

The Iowa Humane Society . .
The Sioux City Humane Society

The Kansas City Humane Society
The Foster Humane Society

Kentucky Humane S. P. C. .
Henderson Humane Society
Franklin County Humane Society
Kenton County Humane Society.
Lexington and Fayette Co. H. 5..

Louisiana State S. P. C. A.

 

I7

0...

I4

I...

10
I3

 

I93
41

263

O...

103
130

 

 

70.

281

O...

23

22
100

 

0“.

274

 

0-0.

I...

D...

 

IO

.00.
O...

302

653
183

O...

'55;
1085

 

* Fiscal year.

1* Does not include work of agents throughout the State.

1 Children and animals.

I39

 




 

 

 

 

MAINE.
Portland
Bangor . .
‘Waterville .
Lewiston .

MARYLAND.
Baltimore . .

MASSACHUSETTS.
Boston
Taunton
Lowell . .
MICHIGAN.
Detroit . .
Grand Rapids
Kalamazoo

MINNESOTA.
St. Paul.
Minneapolis
Duluth . .
St. Paul . .
Owatonna .
Winona . .
St. Cloud .
Red Wing .
Rochester .
Stillwater .

MISSISSIPPI.
Natchez .

MISSOURI.

St. Louis .
St. Louis
Kansas City
St. Joseph.
Sedalia . .

 

 

Maine State S. P. C. A.* . .
The Bangor Humane Society .
Waterville S. P. C. A. .

Lewiston and Auburn S. P. C A.

The Maryland S. P. C. A. . . ,
The Massachusetts S. P. C. A?“

Taunton Humane Society"<
The Lowell Humane S0c1ety ‘.

Michigan S. P. C. A. . .
Kent County Humane Society.
Kalamazoo Humane Society

Minnesota S. P. C. .
Minneapolis Humane Society
Duluth Humane Society. . .
St. Paul S. P. C. . .

Steele County Humane Society
The Winona Humane Society.
St. Cloud Humane Society .
Red Wing Humane Society .
Rochester Humane Society .
S-tillwater Humane Society .

The Mississippi S. P. C. A. '.

Humane Society of Missouri * . .
Woman’s Humane Society of Missouri .
The Humane Society of Kansas City .
The Humane Society of St. Joseph* .
The Humane Society of Sedalia, Missouri .

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

NEBRASKA.
Omaha . . . .
South Omaha .

NEW HAMPSHIRE.
Portsmouth . .
Keene . . .

NEW JERSEY.
Newark .
Jersey City
Cape May .
Vineland
Morristown
Camden .
Hackensack
Elizabeth . .
Perth Amboy. .
Cranford . . .
Paterson . . .
Somerville .
Princeton
Ridgewood
NEW YORK.
New York . . .
Ossining .
Rochester .
Buffalo
Poughkeepsie
Newburg . .
Oswego . . . .
Fulton
Syracuse . . ,.

 

Nebraska Humane Society. . . . . . .
South Omaha Humane Society. . . . . .

New Hampshire S. P. C. A. . . . . . .
The Keene Humane Society . . . . . .

VOVO

The New Jersey S. P. C. A. . . . .
The Hudson County District S. P. C. A. . . .. . .
Cape May, N. J., District S. P. C. A. . . . 21
The Vineland S. P. C. A. . . . . . . .
Morris County Branch New Jersey S. P. CA.
The Camden S. P. C. A. . . . . . . . .
The Bergen County S. P. C. A. . . . . . .
The S. P. C. A. of Union County, N. J. . . . . . .
Perth Amboy S. P. C. A. . . . . . . . . .
Cranford, N. J., Br. of The N. J. S. P. C. A. . , , ,
Passaic County District S. P. C. A. . . . . , , , ,
Somerset County S. P. C. A. . . . .
Princeton S. P. C. A. . . . . . . . . . I
Ridgewood S. P. C. A.* . . . . . . . .

The American S. P. C. A.§ . . . . . . .
Ossining Br. of The American S. P. C. A.* ,
The Humane Soc. of Rochester, N.Y.,P.C.A. 25
The Erie County S. P. C. A. . . . . . . 17
The Poughkeepsie S. P. C. A. . . . . . ., . ,
The Newburg S. P. C. A. . . - . . . . . 2
S. P. C. A. of Oswego City, N. Y. . . . .
S. P. C. A. of Village of Fulton, N. Y. . . .
The Central New York S. P. C. A. . .

520

 

 

°ii
I9
25

4339

104
331

 

3804
12
57
79

47

'i6

90794

41
3697
2982
' 5

3

 

 

509

"ii

 

I95
11

'iég

22
53093

625
2401

20

IO

 

_—__i

* Fiscal year.

"r Large and small.

i; Children and animals.

g Includes work of its own agents throughout the‘State.

 

141

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

NEW YORK.——Cont’d.

Nyack . . . .
Elmira . . .
Binghamton
Kingston .
Watertown
Albany . .
Lockport .
Cortland .
Rome . .
Auburn .

NORTH CAROLINA.
Asheville . .
Wilmington

OHIO.
Cincinnati
Cleveland
Canton .
Columbus
Toledo .
Warren . .
Dayton . .
Athens . .
Sandusky
Portsmouth
Ashtabula . .
Chagrin Falls .
Pomeroy
Youngstown .
Yellow Springs
Tifﬁn . . . .
Chardon . .
Norwalk .

 

The Rockland County S. P. C. A. .

The Elmira S. P. C. A. . . . . .
Broome County S. P. C. A.* . . . .
The Ulster County S. P. C. A. . . . .
Jefferson County S. P. C. A. . . . .
Mohawk and Hudson River Humane Society
The Niagara County S. P. C. A. . . . .
Tlhe Cortland County S. P. C. A. . .

The Stevens S. P. C. A. of Rome, N. Y. .
The Cayuga County S. P. C. A. . . . .

The North Carolina S. P. C. A.
North Carolina S. P. C. C. & A.

The Ohio Humane Society . . .
Cleveland Humane S-*ociety . . .

The Canton Humane Soci..ety . .
Humane Society of City of Columbus, Ohio .
Toledo Humane Society"< . . .
The Trumbull County Humane Society
Montgomery County Humane Society.
Athens.SPmCA .. .
The Erie County Humane Society.

Scioto County Humane Society . . . . .
Ashtabula County Humane Society. .

The Chagrin Falls Humane S. P. C. C. & A.
Pomeroy Branch Humane Society. . .
The Youngstown Humane Society

Yellow Springs Humane Society .

Seneca County Humane Society .

The Chardon Humane Society .

Huron County Humane Society .

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




O HIO.—C0ntinued.
New Lexington
Lima . . . .

OREGON.
Portland . .

PENNSYLVANIA.
Philadelphia
Philadelphia
Lancaster
York . .
Pittsburg .
West Chester .
Reading .
Williamsport .
Scranton . .
Erie . . .
Wilkesbarre
Altoona .

RHODE ISLAND.
Prov1dence .

SOUTH CAROLINA.
Charleston .
Columbia
Greenville . .
Spartanburg

TENNESSEE.
Memphis
Chattanooga
Knoxville . .
Nashville . .
Jackson . . .

 

Humane Society of New Lexington . .
Lima Branch of Ohio Humane Society .

The Oregon Humane Society .

The Pennsylvania S. P. C. A.* . .
Women’s Pennsylvania S. P. C. A.
Lancaster S. P. C. A. . . . . . .

The York County S. P. C. A. . . . . .
Western Pennsylvania Humane Society * . .
Chester C. Aux’y Women’s Br. Pa. S. P. C. A.
Berks County S. P. C. A. . . . . .
Lycoming County S. P. C. A. . . . . .
L'ackawan‘n-a Br. of Pennsylvania S. P. C. A.*
Northwestern Pennsylvania Humane Society
Luzerne Co. Humane ASS'oc’n P. C. C. & A.
The Central Pennsylvania Humane Socie-ty*

Rhode Island S. P. C. A.* .

The South Carolina S. P. C. A. . . . . .
Richlanld County, South Carolina, S. P. C. A.
Greenville Branch of So. Carolina S. P. C. A.
The Spartanburg S. P. C. A. . . . . . .

Tennessee S. P. C. A. & C. . . . . . .
Chattanooga Humane Society . . .. . . .
Knox County Humane Society .
Nashville Humane Society . . . . . . .
Madison County Humane Society . . . .

 

 

40
3057
653
152
“6&6
23
28
33

367

57

-Ln'd'

 

‘00.

65

I47
116
30
'iéé

20

0‘

'Nﬂ

 

70

I...

 

233
62

242

.056

 

140

18188

993
1887

igéé

'iéé
I97
253

6329

IO
I7

I...

 

W.
l
‘ ill ‘il
Ml
WW

 

* Fiscal year.

143




 

 

 

TEXAS.
Waco . . .
Austin . . .
UTAH.
Salt Lake City
VERMONT.
Springﬁeld . . .
Brattleborough
Rutland . . .
Burlington
Chester .
Randolph
Manchester
St. Albans
VIRGINIA.
Richmond .
Norfolk .
Portsmouth
Lynchburg
Roanoke
WASHINGTON.
Tacoma .
Seattle .
WEST VIRGINIA.
Wheeling .
WISCONSIN.
Milwaukee. .
BRITISH No. AMERICA
Halifax .
Hamilton
Kingston
Montreal
Ottawa .
Quebec .

 

The Texas Humane Society .
Austin Humane S. P. C. A

Utah Humane Society . .

Vermont Humane Society . .
The Brattleborough S. P. C. A.
Society P. C. A. . .
Burlington Humane Society.

Chester Humane Society. .
The Randolph Humane Society .
Manc’hester S. P. C. A. . . .
St. Albans Humane Society .

Richmond S. P. C. A.
Norfolk S. P. C. A. .
Woman’s Humane SOciety of Virginia .

The Lynchburg Humane Society. .
RoanokeSP.CA..

Tacoma S. P. C. A. . .
Seattle Humane Society .

West Virginia Humane Society*

Wisconsin Humane Society *

The Nova Scotia S. P. C.
Hamilton S. P. C. A. .

Kingston Humane Society
The Canadian S. P. C. A. .
Ottawa Humane Society .
Quebec S. P. C. A. . . .

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




  

 

 

 

152

menced the erection of a Shelter for Animals at 102d Street
and East River, provided with every accommodation for the
care of animals and their humane destruction.

In rescuing the community from the reign of the old dog
catchers, the Society earned the gratitude of the dog owners
of New York, and in 1895, at the request of the Mayor of
Brooklyn, the law was amended (Chap. 412, Laws 1895) so as
to include that city as well. A Shelter was then established in
that city, at the corner of Malbone Street and Nostrand Avenue,
and when Staten Island became a part of the greater City of
New York, a Shelter was also opened on Wave Street, Staple-
ton, Borough of Richmond.

Much suffering has thus been spared the vagrant, lost, and
abandoned dogs and cats of the city. Unwanted animals are
no longer thrown into the streets, to suffer and die of expo-
sure and starvation, but are given into the care of the Society
and by it mercifully destroyed or placed in good homes.

Through the generosity of kind-hearted people interested in
the work of animal protection, the Society was enabled, in
1896-97, to rear a commodious ﬁreproof building as its perma-
nent Headquarters, adequate to the increased needs of the So-
ciety, and supplied with every facility for carrying on the work
to the best advantage.

Meanwhile the practical work is not neglected. The ofﬁcers
of the Society are clothed with ample police powers. They
wear a distinctive uniform and patrol the streets by day and
by night. They have full power to arrest and prosecute offend-
ers against the laws relating to animals. In addition to the
uniformed police, the Society has nearly two hundred special
agents in different parts of the State, clothed with the same
authority and engaged in enforcing the laws for the prevention
of cruelty. In the Boroughs of Manhattan and Brooklyn the
Society has ambulances for the removal of injured, sick, and
disabled animals; appliances for the rescue of drowning ani-
mals and animals which have fallen into excavations; and a
patrol wagon which carries with it the necessary apparatus

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
  
   
 
 
 

 

 

 




 

I53

and medicines for rendering aid to injured animals in the
streets.

In addition to its permanent headquarters, Madison Avenue
and 26th Street, and the Shelters above mentioned, the Society
maintains an ambulance house at 111 and 113 East 22d Street,
New York, and an ofﬁce at I 3 Willoughby Street, and an
ambulance house at 114 Lawrence Street, Brooklyn. In the
greater City of New York it maintains a uniformed force of
twenty salaried Special Agents, and in other parts of the State
of New York it has over two hundred volunteer agents.

In the prosecution of its work, the Society has in constant
use three large ambulances for the removal of disabled ani-
mals, and eight smaller ambulances and two tricycle carriers
especially constructed for the removal of sick, injured, and
homeless small animals. Twenty horses and a large corps
of men are employed in this service.

The ofﬁcial organ of the Society is OUR ANIMAL FRIENDS,
a monthly magazine which is devoted to the cause of human-
ity to all living creatures, and which has an extensive and
growing circulation.

‘ l
w
l
3 l
H
l 1‘
t it
in
1‘
M
l
I ;<
M
.l
l.
x
l.
l I
l
, 1-
il‘w
l
rl
u
H
M
l
.i
ll!
l
.‘g
l
l,
”l
1:
ml
l “f
,p
w:
l.
M .
. l
m 'l
\‘1
Mi
‘1‘1
in 1
Hi
{[‘1.
"l
,
i i
H
l.‘
MH'
‘1
,‘
ml.
l
Ml
l
t
‘l
..y
i
l.
i
l 1
a“
{mi
1‘
H
‘l
l
W
i
i 1
H.
l.
1‘.

_‘_..A ;4 4m~4 4 4 44 f 4. A ”-4 4

 




 

 

 

LEGAL AND CONSTITUTIONAL STATUS
OF THE A. S. P. C. A.

OPINION OF HON. CHARLES ANDREWS, FOR-
MERLY CHIEF JUSTICE OF THE COURT OF
APPEALS OF THE STATE OF NEW'YORK.

In re The American Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

The American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals was incorporated by Chapter 469 of the Laws of
the State of New York, passed April 10, I866. The charter
was procured mainly through the efforts of Mr. Bergh, also
the founder of the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Children. He devoted many years of his life to the humane
work which the societies were organized to promote. The
Society for “the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals was the
pioneer organization of this kind in America, and is the
parent of the local organizations in this State established in
many counties to carry on similar work in their respective
localities. The local societies are not created by special
charter as is The American Society, but under a general
law, and the general statute for the incorporation of such
societies requires as a prerequisite to their corporate exis-
tence that the proposed corporation shall obtain the approval
of The American Society to the incorporation, or, if such ap—
proval is withheld, the sanction of a Judge of the Supreme
Court. (Chapter 490, Laws of 1888; Chapter 291, Laws of
1892; Membership Corporations Law, Chapter 559, Laws of

 




 

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
    

I55

1895, Section 70.) This legislation recognizes the primacy
of The American Society. The Charter Act of 1866 does not
undertake to deﬁne with precision the powers to be exercised
by The American Society. But by Section 5 it empowers the
Society to enact a code of by—laws for the regulation and
management of its affairs not inconsistent with the laws of
the State or of the United States, which, when enacted, are to
have the force of law. The Society, under this authority, en—
acted by-laws, the second‘of which declares the objects of the
Society, viz.: “ To provide effective means for the prevention
of cruelty to animals throughout the United States ; to enforce
all laws which are now, or may hereafter be, enacted for the
protection of animals; and to secure by lawful means the
arrest, conviction, and punishment of all persons violating
such laws,” etc. It will be noticed that the enforcement of
criminal laws relating to cruelty to animals is one of the ob-
jects speciﬁed. Speaking of The American Society, Judge
Earl said, in Davis 713. The American Society (75 N. Y., 362,
366): “ The purpose of the corporation was to enforce the
laws enacted ‘to prevent cruelty to animals.” The American
Society after its incorporation actively entered upon the work
for which it was incorporated, and the change wrought in.
public sentiment and in the treatment of dumb animals, re-
placing cruelty by kindness patent to every observer, is due
largely to the work of The American Society. The original
charter of the Society was enacted. solely for the protection
of animals. The protection of individuals and the public
against wandering, diseased and dangerous animals, es-
pecially dogs left to run at large upon the streets without
apparent ownership and uncared for, feeding upon the ﬁlthy
and often poisonous refuse of the cesspool and the gutter,
was not embraced within the original purpose of the charter.
In the City of New York and elsewhere this subject had been
left to municipal regulation, which had proved, ineffective to
meet and prevent the discomfort and danger referred to. To

meet this exigency the Legislature passed the Act, Chapter ,

 




 

 

156

115 of the Laws of 1894, prescribing a system for the licens-
ing of dogs in cities of over 800,000 population (practically
in the City of New York), the administration and supervision
of which was committed to The American Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals. Section II of the Act
repeals the authority conferred upon the Common Council
of the City of New York by Sub-section 30 of Section 86 of
the Consolidation Act of 1882, to enact ordinances “ relative
to the taxing and destroying of dogs within the said city.”
The repealing clause in the Act of 1894 shows that it was the
intention of the Legislature to substitute the system estab-
lished by that Act and the Control vested in The American
Society in respect to dogs in the City of New York in place
of the authority theretofore vested in the Common Council.
The Act of 1894 was amended by Chapter 412 of the Laws of
1895, and by Chapter 495 of the Laws of 1902, and the exist-
ing system is now embraced in the last-named statute. The
leading features of the Act of 1902 may be brieﬂy sum-
marized. The Act requires every owner of a dog in the City
of New York to take out an annual license and prescribes the
license fee. Each licensed dog is to wear a collar around its
neck, with a metal tag attached bearing the number of the
license. It is provided that dogs not licensed shall be seized,
and if not claimed and redeemed within forty-eight hours,
may be destroyed; and if not claimed and redeemed or de-
stroyed within ﬁve days after the seizure, “ they shall then be
destroyed.” Any cat found without a collar about its neck
bearing the name and residence of the owner “ may be seized
and disposed of in like manner as prescribed above for dogs.”
The power to issue licenses, to collect the license fees, to fur-
‘ nish tags, and generally to carry out the provisions of the Act
is vested in The American Society. Section 8 is as follows:
“The American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals is hereby empowered and authorized to carry out the
provisions of this Act, and the said Society is further author-
ized to issue the licenses and renewals, and to collect the fees

 




 

I57

therefor, as herein prescribed ; and the fees so collected shall
be applied by said Society in defraying the cost of carrying
out the provisions of this Act and maintaining a shelter for
lost, strayed, or homeless animals; and any fees so collected
and not required in carrying out the provisions of this Act
shall be retained by the said Society as compensation for en-
forcing the provisions of title sixteen of the Penal Code, and
such other statutes of the State as relate to the humane work
in which the said Society is engaged.” The reason for the
last provision in this section, that the Society shall retain the
license fees not required for the other speciﬁed services as
compensation forenforcing the provisions of Title XVI of
the Penal Code, is found in the nature of those provisions
and the work of the Society in aiding in their enforcement.
That title of the Penal Code is entitled “ Cruelty to Animals,”
embracing Sections 655 to 669, inclusive. They cover not
only the cases of cruelty to animals, but other offenses against
good order and affecting the public welfare connected with
their improper use. Among other things they make over-}
driving, abandonment of diseased animals, the failure to pro-
vide animals with proper food and drink, wantonly poisoning
them, cock-ﬁghting and other similar sports, and the keeping
of cows in unhealthy places and the‘selling of impure milk,
misdemeanors. The Penal Code has'been supplemented by
many other statutory provisions which relate more or less
directly to the work of societies for the prevention of cruelty
to animals. (See Society Manual.) Section 668 of Title XVI
of the Penal Code expresses the legislative intention as to
the relation of The American Society to the execution of the
provisions of that title. It provides that the ﬁnes and penal-
ties for a violation of the provisions of the title shall be paid
over to The American Society, except where the prosecution
is initiated and conducted by other societies for the preven-
tion of cruelty to animals. It authorizes any agent or ofﬁcer
of the Society to “ arrest and bring before a court or magis-
trate having jurisdiction, any person offending against its pro-

 




 

158

visions, and to interfere to prevent the perpetration of any
act of cruelty upon any animal in his presence.” It provides
that any of the societies may prefer complaints before any
court or magistrate having jurisdiction, “and may aid in
presenting the law or the facts before such court, tribunal or
magistrate in any proceeding taken.” The section concludes,
“ The ofﬁcers and agents of all duly incorporated societies for
prevention of cruelty to animals or children are hereby de—
clared to be peace ofﬁcers within the provisions of Section one
hundred and ﬁfty—four of the Code of Criminal Procedure.”
The work of The American Society in aiding the enforcement
of the Penal Code in respect to cruelty to animals, the sup—
pression of cock—ﬁghting, the protection of the public against
impure milk, and the suppression of other illegal practices,
has been vigorously pursued. The Society through its ofﬁcers
and agents, as shown by its records, has aided in the prosecu-
tion of thousands of offenses against the Penal Code and
other statutory enactments for the protection of animals.
Such prosecutions have resulted in convictions for violations
of these statutes under every section of Title XVI of the
Penal Code, and its beneﬁcent work has secured the hearty
cooperation of the public authorities in the City of New
York. Under the dog—licensing act its work has been of the
greatest public utility. During the ﬁrst ﬁve and a half years
after "the passage of Chapter 115 of the Laws of 1894 164,226
dogs and 315,645 cats, roaming at large in violation of the
Act, were seized in the City of New York and taken to the
shelter. In the year 1899 more than 25,000 dogs and 56,000
cats were seized under the authority of the Act, and larger
numbers in each year thereafter. The Society at great ex-
pense has provided shelters for the retention of lost, strayed,
and homeless animals, and for dogs and cats seized and held
for reclamation by the owners, or if not reclaimed pending the
time for their destruction. It maintains an ambulance service
and agents employed by day and night in the performance of
duties connected with the work of the Society.

 

 




 

I59

In View of the Fox case hereinafter referred to the question
has been raised as to whether the Act of 1902 is subject to
any constitutional objection.

The regulation of the care of dogs and other animals in the
interest of public security is unquestionably within the com-
petency of the Legislature. It belongs to that great mass of
legislation enacted under What is known as the police power
of the State. The general purpose of the Act, Chapter II5 of
the Laws of 1894 as amended by Chapter 495 of the Laws of
1902, creating a license system for dogs, is plainly in the
interest and for the protection of the people of the City of
New 'York. It is not a tax or revenue act. The requirement
that owners of dogs shall take out a license is to secure their
proper care and oversight, and the license fee required to be
paid is incident to the carrying out of this purpose and to pro—
vide means for its execution. The Legislature, in the exercise
of its discretion to provide suitable means for the enforce-
ment of its policy, has by the Act designated The American
Society as the administrative agency for carrying out the
license system. There would seem to be no ground to ques—
tion the legislative power in this respect. It is to be observed
that no legislative power and no discretion is vested in the
ofﬁcers or agents of the Society. The Legislature itself
determines that a license shall in all cases be obtained. It ﬁxes
the license fee. It enacts the consequences which shall follow
a disregard of the law. The Society has no discretion to with—
hold a license in any case. In issuing licenses, supplying the
tags, maintaining a shelter, seizing unlicensed dogs, and de—
stroying them unless reclaimed within the time speciﬁed, the
Society plainly acts as the agent of the State, and exercises
delegated, administrative and executive functions only. In
considering whether the Legislature may vest these adminis-
trative powers in The American Society, the nature of the
corporation known as The American Society for the Preven-
tion of Cruelty to Animals is worthy of consideration. The A
Legislature created the corporation by special act. It named

 




 

160

the incorporators. It was on its initiative that the cor-
poration was called into existence. Unlike corporations
formed under general laws by the voluntary action of in—
dividuals, the Legislature simply authorizing their creation,
The American Society is the direct creation of the Legislature
itself, created because in its judgment it supplied a needed
agency for the protection of animals. The additional powers
engrafted on the original charter by the Act of 1894 extended
the work of the Society so as to embrace the protection of the
public against animals roaming at will without care and con—
stituting a menace to public safety. In the general classiﬁca-
tion of corporations as public and private The American So-
ciety may technically fall within the last category. But in its
essential character and objects it was created for public pur-
poses. It subserves no private interests. Its duties and
powers relate exclusively to matters which have always been
deemed suitable for public regulation. There are no stock-
holders, and the who-1e revenue of the Society from licenses
must be applied in defraying necessary expenses in the em—
ployment of agents and providing the necessaryincidentals for
its work, and to promoting the objects of the incorporation.
It is a quasi corporation, a term which marks the distinction
between strictly private corporations and those which, tech-
nically private, are organized for public objects. (7, Am. and
Eng. Enc. of Law, page 638, and cases cited.) The Society
is a subordinate public agency to perform a service which
the Legislature might delegate to a citizen or public body.
The only doubt as ‘to the validity of the Act of 1902 is
based on the case of Fox 725. The Mohawk and Hudson River
Humane Society (165 N. Y. 517). The defendant in that
case was created by the consolidation under Chapter 292 of
the Laws of 1894 of two existing voluntary corporations or-
ganized under general laws, one for the prevention of cruelty
to children, and one for the prevention of cruelty to animals.
By Chapter 448 of the Laws of 1896 the general system for
the licensing of dogs engrafted on the powers of The Ameri—

 

 

 




 

 

 

161

can Society by the original Act of 1894 was applied to the
other incorporated societies for the prevention of cruelty
to animals. The ‘Mohawk and Hudson River Humane So—
ciety, incorporated in the County of Albany, in the execu—
tion of the power conferred by the Act of 1896, was about to
seize an unlicensed dog, and out of this the litigation in the
Fox case originated. The plaintiff alleged that the Act was
unconstitutional, and so it was ﬁnally adjudged by the Court
of Appeals upon two grounds: First, that the ﬁfth section
of the Act which declared that “ dogs not redeemed within
forty-eight hours (after seizure) may be destroyed or other-
wise disposed of at the discretion of the Society ” in effect
permitted the Society to harbor dogs without obtaining a 1i—
cense, as every other citizen was required to do, and that this
was the grant «of an exclusive privilege or immunity forbidden
by Section 18 of Article III of the State Constitution; and,
second, that the seventh section of the Act, so far as it re-
quired the owner of a dog to pay a license fee to the defen—
dant “for its own purposes,”,‘was a gift of public money in
contravention of Section 9 of Article VIII of the Constitution.
In considering the application of the Fox case to the powers
conferred by the Act of 1902 on The American Society it is
important to notice that the case is a decisive authority that
the Legislature could lawfully constitute societies for the pre—
vention of cruelty to animals a public agency to execute the
licensing system established by the Act of 1896 and by the
Act of 1902, and that the power conferred upon the agents of
the societies summarily to seize and destroy unlicensed dogs
was not repugnant to that clause in the Constitution which
protects property against invasion without due process of law.
The qualiﬁed character of property in dogs was held to dis-
tinguish it from other property, and that due process of
law was exerted when the Legislature, under the police
power, authorized the seizure and destruction of unlicensed
dogs by the defendant Society.

The Constitutional objection raised by the Court of Ap-

 

 




 

 

162

peals in the F ox case, Based upon the construction of the ﬁfth
section of Chapter 448 of the Laws of 1896, has been elimi-
na‘ted as to The American Society by the amendment of the
ﬁfth section of Chapter 115 of the Laws of 1894 by the Act
of 1902. The original section ﬁve in the two Acts of 1894 and
1896 were in identical language. The Court of Appeals held
that it permitted the Society to harbor unlicensed dogs and
keep them at its pleasure without obtaining a license. This
the court held was the grant of an exclusive privilege in con-
travention of the Constitution. The Court said: “The de-
fendant can keep any dog it sees ﬁt and is not required to
pay anything for the privilege. N 0 one else in the community
can keep a dog without paying a dollar a year for the privi-
lege. . . . We think this an exclusive privilege con-
demned by the Constitution.” Again on page 526 the opinion,
after stating that under the Act then in question the Society
was not required to kill unlicensed dogs, proceeds: “ It is
contended that the statute was enacted to exterminate home-
less, wandering or diseased dogs, which may be a source of
great danger to life and health. If the statute prescribed
action appropriate to effect such result the work directed
to be done in pursuance of it might be well termed govern-
mental and a very different question presented.” The ﬁfth
section of the Act of 1894, as amended by the ﬁfth section
of the Act of 1902, completely removes the objection of
special privilege, and that the work of the Society is not
governmental. It makes it imperative on The American
Society to destroy all unlicensed dogs seized after the tem-
porary detention permitted “to give opportunity for their
reclamation. The Society cannot harbor them within the
meaning of the statute nor keep a kennel nor sell them.
They are irrevocably devoted to destruction unless reclaimed
within the brief period allowed by the owner. The language
of the amended section is: “ Section .5. Dogs not licensed
pursuant to the provisions of this Act shall be seized, and if
not claimed and redeemed within forty-eight hours thereafter

 




 

163

they may be destroyed; but if not claimed and redeemed or
destroyed within ﬁve days of the time of seizure they shall then
be destroyed.” It is clear that the constitutional objection
founded on Section 18, Article III of the Constitution made to
the Act in the F ox case has no application to the Act of 1902.

The provision in the Act of 1902 that the license fees col-
lected by The American Society “shall be applied by said
Society in defraying the cost of carrying out the provisions
of this Act and maintaining a shelter for lost, strayed, or
homeless animals; and any fees so collected and not required
in carrying out the provisions of this Act shall be retained by
the said Society as compensation for enforcing the provisions
of Title Sixteen of the Penal Code and such other statutes of
the State as relate to the humane work in which said Society
is engaged,” is not a gift of public money forbidden by the
Constitution.

The clause of the Constitution bearing upon this question
is Section 9 of Article VIII, which declares: “ Neither the
credit nor the money of the State shall be given or loaned
to or in aid of any association, corporation, or private under-
taking. This section shall not, however, prevent the Legisla-
ture from making such provision for the education and sup-
port of the blind, the deaf and dumb, and juvenile delinquents,
as to it may seem proper,” etc. The design of this section
and of the tenth section, imposing a similar prohibition on
cities, ’towns and villages, was to interpose a barrier to
the practice which 'had grown up in legislative bodies to ap-
propriate public moneys or to loan the public credit in aid of
private enterprises on the plea of assumed public utility. The
bestowing by the Legislature of public money as gratuities
to corporations or individuals was prohibited by the ninth
section and nothing beyond. An appropriation by the Legis-
lature of public money, unless it amounts to a gift to the cor-
poration or individual designated as the recipient, is not
Within the prohibition. Tlhe pro‘hibitory words: “ Neither the
credit nor the money of the State shall be given,” admit of

 




 

I65

neither in form nor substance a gift of the public money. The
clause in Section 9 of Article VIII of the Constitution follow-
ing the prohibitory words, viz.: “ This section shall not, how-
ever, prevent the Legislature from making such provision
for the education and support of the blind, the deaf and dumb,
and juvenile delinquents, as to it may seem proper,” do not
justify an inference that compensation made by the State for
services rendered by private corporations or individuals in the
execution of police regulations are gifts of public money. It
will be noticed that this clause is not put in the form of an
exception to the preceding prohibition. Obviously payments
by the State for the education and support of dependent
classes made to private corporations which undertake, at
“the instance of the State, the performance of duties recog-
nized as public, and which the State in justice ought to as-
sume, are not in any proper sense gifts. It is not, however,
difﬁcult to conceive cases Where forms of State aid to private
corporations engaged in the relief of the blind, the deaf and
dumb, etc., might be regarded as gifts instead. of provisions
for education and support. The framers of the Constitution
designed to give a free 'hand to the Legislature in providing
for the objects speciﬁed in. this clause. The clause was evi-
dently inserted out of extreme caution so as to preclude any
construction which would hamper the State in providing for
this beneﬁcent work. It does not tend to show that com—
pensa‘tion by the State to private corporations for public ser-
vice is a gift of public money within the prohibition. The stat-
ute under consideration in the Fox case (Chapter 448, Laws
of 1896), provided. (Section 7) that the license fees collected
by the societies, of which the Mohawk and Hudson River
Humane Society was one, should be used by the societies in
defraying the expenses incurred in carrying out the act “ and ”
maintaining a shelter for lost animals, etc., “ and,” this section
concludes, “for its own purposes.” It was upon these con-
cluding words that Judge Cullen based his opinion that the
section violated the prohibition in the Constitution against

 

 




 

166

gifts of public money to private corporations. After nega-
tiving the grounds upon which the Appellate Division rested
its decision, Judge Cullen said: “We think, however, that
the statute is unconstitutional so far as it requires the owner
of a dog to pay a license fee to the defendant for its own
use.” The authority given to the Society to retain the license
fees and apply them to “its own purposes,” which embrace
not only the protection of animals but of children also against
cruelty, was the turning point on that branch of the case.
The money was not given to the Society as compensation,
and it could be used. at the discretion of the Society for pur-
poses not germane to the source from which it was derived.
The Act now governing The American Society (Chapter 495
of the Laws of 1902) differs in an essential and vital point
from the Act under consideration in the Fox case. The
money remaining, if any, after paying expenses of carrying
out the license system and maintaining a shelter is to be re-
tained by The American Society under the Law of 1902 (Sec-
tion 8) “as compensation ” for enforcing the provisions of
Title XVI of the Penal Code and other similar statutes. The
right to make such compensation is, in my judgment, un-
doubted, and while the amount authorized to be retained is
quite inadequate to the development of the constantly
broadening work of the Society, the amount of the compen-
sation to be made, if compensation can be made at all, is a
legislative and not a judicial question. Upon the whole I am
of opinion that the disposition of the license fees made by
the Act of 1902 is not in conﬂict with Section 9, Article VIII
of the Constitution, and that the Fox case may and ought to
be distinguished on this point from a case arising under that
Act.

In respect to the suggestion that the Act of 1902 attempts
to confer on The American Society the power to appoint
public ofﬁcers in the authority to appoint ofﬁcers and agents,
who, when appointed, are vested with ofﬁcial functions, is
answered in the main by the decision of the Court of Appeals

 




 

167

in the Fox case, which expressly overruled the opinion of
the Appellate Division that the Act of 1896, which conferred
power upon the ofﬁcers and agents of the Mohawk and Hud-
son River Humane Society identical with those conferred
upon the ofﬁcers and agents of The American Society, was
unconstitutional in that it assumed to vest in the defendant
the execution of certain police powers of the State, and in
effect constituted it a public ofﬁcer. “ The decision below,”
said the Court of Appeals, “ cannot be upheld on this ground.”
The only new question upon this branch of the case arises
as to the validity of the provision in Section 668 of the Penal
Code, which authorizes any agent or ofﬁcer of The American
Society to arrest and bring before the court or magistrate
having jurisdiction any person offending against the provi-
sions of Title XVI of the Penal Code, and the provision in the
same section which declares that the “ofﬁcers and agents
are hereby declared to be peace ofﬁcers within the provisions
of Section 154 of the Code of Criminal Procedure.” It has
been decided that the Legislature may authorize arrests by
ofﬁcers without warrant for misdemeanors committed in
their presence other than such as amount to breaches of the
peace (Burrows vs. Eastman, 101 Mich. 419), and in this State
this power exists without special legislative authority (17
How. Pr. 101. See also Stage Horse cases, 15 Abb. Pr., N.
S. 62). At common law a private person may arrest for felony
actually committed on reasonable grounds of suspicion
(Burns vs. Erben, 40 N. Y. 463), and may arrest for an affray
or breach of the peace committed in his presence, but must,
without unreasonable delay, bring the offender before a magi-
strate. (Jordan vs. Reardon, 16 Minn. 431; 2 Am. and Eng.
Enc. Law, 2d Ed., p. 888, and cases cited.) The Legislature
may also extend the power of private persons to make ar—
rests for offenses committed in their presence so as to em—
brace misdemeanors of any kind, accompanied with the con—
dition that the offenders be brought without delay before a
proper magistrate. This was what was done in respect to

 




 

I68

ofﬁcers and agents of The American Society as to offenses
under Title XVI of the Penal Code. The provision constitut-
ing such ofﬁcers and agents peace ofﬁcers simply means that
they shall have the powers of peace ofﬁcers in respect to the
offenses speciﬁed in Section 668. I am of opinion that the
Legislature did not overstep its authority in conferring the
powers mentioned. Even if it were otherwise the general
scheme of the Act of 1902 would not be affected. These pro-
visions which are separable would fall, and the powers of the
ofﬁcers and agents of The American Society in other respects
would continue. (Signed) CHAS. ANDREWS.
December, 1902.

 

 




 

 

AN APPEAL.

An erroneous idea is entertained by many that this Society
is beyond the necessity for further appeals to our benevolent
and generous-hearted people for aid. It receives no appropri—
ations from the city or State, and is dependent upon voluntary
subscriptions, donations, and bequests. The usefulness of the
organization could be largely increased, and the ﬁeld of its
labors greatly extended, if it had a more adequate pecuniary
support. As all know, the objects of the Society are to enforce
the humane laws, to investigate complaints, to care for lost or
abandoned animals, or to destroy them mercifully, to suppress
cruel beating, overloading, and over-driving, and to protect
and assist sick, maimed, and starving animals.

Another prominent object of the Society is the distribution
of humane literature, out of which shall grow not only the kind
treatment of animals, but the higher elevation of our own race.
It may be desirable to state in this connection that during the
past year the Society has published and distributed many
millions of pages of printed matter in the interest of humanity
to animals, and we have had ample reason to know that the
effect has been fully as great as could have been reasonably
hoped for this purpose; and to these ends we earnestly invite
your pecuniary assistance.

The library of the Society contains many valuable books
relating to the brute creation. Contributions of works treating
of animal life are urgently requested. The library is of great
importance and value to the Society in aiding it to carry on the
educational feature which now so largely enters into the work
of animal protection.

Contributions to the Society will be acknowledged in the
annual report.

 




 

PUBLICATIONS.

In addition to the monthly magazine of the Society, OUR
ANIMAL FRIENDS, and the manual, “ Kindness to Animals,”
referred to in another part of this report, the Society publishes
a number of leaﬂets, among which the following may be men-
tioned:

No. I.—“ Ten Rules for the Treatment of Animals.” Gives
valuable hints in regard to the treatment conducive to the good
health and happiness of animals.

No. 2.-—“ What is Docking?” Points out the absurdities
of the practice, and cites the opinions of the best authorities
proving the cruelty of the operation.

No. 3.—-“ Fashion’s Cruelty and Bird Protection.” An able
plea by J. A.IA11en, Ph.D., for the preservation of bird life,
now so wantonly and cruelly sacriﬁced in the interest of vain
fashion.

N o. 4.—“ The Dishorning of Cattle an Act of Cruelty.” The
cruelty and fallacy of dishorning graphically set forth in a
re’sume’ of the famous English dishorning case.

No. 5.—“ Hints for the Dog Days.” Dispels the many ig-
norant and false ideas in regard to rabies and hydrophobia,
and gives valuable information concerning the dog, its ner-
vous disorders, and its‘ care.

No. 6.-——“ Rabies and Hydrophobia.” Gives the opinions of
medical men on these diseases, and refers to the Pasteur treat-
ment and the Buisson cure by vapor baths.

These leaﬂets are intended for gratuitous distribution, and
will be forwarded to any address on receipt of postage, as fol-

 

 




 

 

I71

lows, per packet of 100: No. I, six cents; No. 2, ten cents; Nos.
3 and 4, twenty—ﬁve cents; No. 5, ten cents, and No. 6, forty
cents.

Title XVI of the Penal Code, .relating to cruelty to animals,
is also published by the Society in pamphlet form, and a copy
will be forwarded to any one interested in the work.

 

 




 

HOW TO PROCEED AGAINST
OFFENDERS.

There are two modes of proceeding, viz.: I. By giving the
offender into the custody of a policeman, constable, or other
ofﬁcer. II. By the apprehension Of the accused under a
warrant.

I.

BY GIVING THE OFFENDER INTO THE CUSTODY OF AN
OFFICER AUTHORIZED TO MAKE 'ARRESTS.

When you personally witness an act of cruelty, call the atten-
tion of an Ofﬁcer to the nature of the Offense, insist on the arrest
Of the Offender; if you cannot accompany the accused to the
magistrate, then give your name and address to the Ofﬁcer as a
witness, and be sure to take his number, name, and precinct,
in order that you may compel attention to the case. The law
requires the police throughout this State to aid in the protec-
tion of dumb animals from injury and abuse; and should any
ofﬁcer refuse his assistance—which is not likely to occur-—
then take the number on his hat or shield, and report the same
to the Society.

II.
BY THE ARREST OF THE ACCUSED UNDER WARRANT.

When you do not personally see the act of cruelty, or when
you can not procure an Ofﬁcer on the spot, or if the ofﬁcer

 

 




 

 

I73

refuses to act, then obtain the name and address of the offender,
and that painted on the vehicle, if any, and the names and resi-
dences of those who witnessed the act, and lay the facts before
a magistrate.

IN ALL CASES

Make a note of the time when, and the street or place where,
the offense occurred, and also the names and residences of all
persons present and of any others who may be called as wit-
nesses. If the offense was that of driving a horse or other
animal with galled neck or shoulders, or other wounds, note
the size and location of such wounds—especially if raw, dis—
charging, or in contact with the harness. If the offense was
ﬂogging or beating, note the instrument, the number of blows,
on what part Of the body inﬂicted, and the effect, if any, on the
skin of the animal; if overloading, carefully observe the symp-
toms Of distress, such as the trembling, falling, unusual perspi-
ration, Or exhaustion. Report all cases of mutilation, such as
docking tails of horses, cutting tails or ears of dogs, or any
other torture; also cases of cruelty in the transporting of sheep,
calves, game, fowls, or other poultry, or animals, while bound
by the legs or otherwise, in any part of this State, either on land
or water. In every instance observe minutely and take down
in writing the facts and details, and also the language of the
offender at the time.

FINALLY.

Complaints or inquiries made to the Society at its head-
quarters, by night or by day, will receive prompt attention; and
ALL ARRESTS FOR CRUELTY SHOULD BE PROMPTLY REPORTED
THERE, TO INSURE A PROPER PROSECUTION OF THE CASE.

 

 

 




 

STEEL GAS TANK FOR THE HUMANE
DESTRUCTION OF SMALL ANIMALS.

See Illustrations, page 62.

The dimensions of this tank are as follows: length, ten feet;
width, ﬁve feet; and height, four feet six inches. A trap-door
is provided through which the animals are put into the tank,
and four heavy plate—glass windows light the interior. Ordinary
illuminating gas is admitted through an inch and one-quarter
pipe, and when the tank is to be emptied escapes through a
six—inch pipe. As shown by the illustration on page 62, a
truck or cage rests on the bottom of the tank on tracks, the
latter withdrawing from the tank so that the cage can be moved
outside to facilitate the handling of the bodies of dead animals.

The method of destroying small animals by illuminating
gas was adopted by the Society after a thorough investigation
of other known methods, and is to be recommended from hu-
mane and sanitary standpoints. Illuminating gas produces
anaesthesia or insensibility, and 'death follows almost instan-
taneously and is absolutely painless. Charcoal fumes cause
asphyxia or suffocation, and the use of charcoal is not recom-
mended for that reason.

 

 

 




 

 

 

To More wko may feel disposed lo donate 63/ WILL to
flee benevolent oojeets of 1712’s Soez'ely, l/ze follo'zoz'rzgr
2's suomz'tlecl as a form .'

Form of Bequest of Personal Property.

I give and bequeath unto “The American Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals,” a corporation created by
and existing under the laws of the State of New York, the sum
of ........................................ .......... dollars, to be applied to
the uses of said corporation.

Form of Device of Real Property.

I give and devise unto “The American Society for the Pre-
vention of Cruelty to Animals,” a corporation created by and
existing under the laws of the State of New York, all [here insert
description of property],together with all the appurtenances,
tenements, and hereditarnents thereunto belonging or in any wise
appertaining, to have and to hold the same unto the said cor-
poration, its successors and assigns, forever.

 

 

 




 

DONATION BLANK.

I90 ...........

 

To JOHN P. HAINES, President, \
The American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals,

Madison Avenue and 26th Street, New York.

Sir:
Enclosed please find my check for $ .......... , a donation to the general funds

of the Society.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Name

 

Address .................................................................................

This subscription carries with it no obligation for subsequent years.
Donations will be acknowledged in the Annual Report.

 




MEMBERSHIP IN THE SOCIETY.

Attention is again called to the fact that this Society receives no funds from the public treasury, its
revenues being derived mainly from members’ dues, voluntary donations and bequests. The scope of
the work could be, greatly extended if the Society had a larger ﬁxed income such as is derived from mem-
bership dues and interest on permanent funds. An urgent appeal is therefore made for new members,
and those who are already identiﬁed with the cause of animal protection in this way are earnestly re-
quested to interest their friends in the work with a view to having them become members of the Society.

The laws of the State of New York provide as follows : “ The police force of z‘lze C2?) of New York,
as well as of all other places wlzere police organz'zaz‘z'om exist, slzall, as occasion may require, az'a’ t/ze Socz'ez‘y,
z'z‘s rVEAIBERS. or agents. 2'72 tlze enforcement of all laws wlzz'clc are now, or may lzereafz‘er be, enacted for
the protection of (lame animals."

'O-...-..'..@.DDDOOODOﬂ..-.-'..........-...-.-..-....-.-.-.-...C‘-...-.....—I---_--_-_------—-----_----—---

To JOHN P. HAINES, President.
Sir: _
Please add the following names to the roll of members of The American Society for
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals :

NAME . ADDRESS

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(1f proposed by a member, please sign here)

 

 

 

Annual Membership, $5. Life Membership, $100.

Members receive all publications of the Society gratuitously.

 




...... I'-
, II. -------- 3-w-as....-4———'-————nun-u.-—-—-——-————-—-‘———-——-—-—-—————-——'-‘--

SUBSCRIPTION TO “CENTURY FUND.”

At a recent meeting of the Board of Managers of The American Society for the Pre-
vention of Cruelty to Animals it was resolved that the President be requested to communicate

With the friends of the Society and ask their assistance in the matter of establishing a

“CENTURY FUND.”
Subscribers to the “CENTURY FUND” donate $100 annually towards defraying the

general expenses of the Society, and may discontinue their subscriptions at any time.

--|-;------‘-----

New York ............................................... 190 ...... .
T0 jOHN P. H/I/NES, President.

Sir:

I berebjl subscribe One Hundred Dollars ( $ 100 ). payable annually,
in lbe 7720an of ___________________________________________ ) 2‘0 l/Je “ CENTURY FUND” of The
American Sopiezfy for the Prevention of C ruelly to Animals, reserving the rig/n lo
revoke i/n's subseripiion al pleasure.

Name _____________________________________________________________

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Address ...............................................................................................

 

 

 




. 1. . ~b } 11‘] I .
W I? [1‘1“ 41. . *1 i ‘ 11 ‘15-, ivll‘l‘l“ . A. ’I ‘14.". nu 1"”. 4.2 $11.34. I! \ 21.nwilvw131‘.‘

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




T1 1 Is A M 12 R ICAN SOCIETY

FUR '1‘} 1 111

PR li\’li.\"l‘l(),N ()FCRUELTY TO ANIMALS

i‘Kﬁ'ﬁ h!£i’<!l{_\ 1 PL!) 13\” "I‘llli ?%5Y-\'I‘IC (f)b‘ f§’PI\\? X'C)l(l{.
\VHH,Im ﬂux

'1‘ l l l R'I'YHi \" ISN'T H ANNUAL R I? P([)RT

l'i)l{ ill Y, \'li;\1{ IC§§E )IP§‘$ l)lC('PIXIi$lCl{ 31, lty)2.

J“! {N P. I-IA'INES‘ PRESIDENT.

lli\!H3V‘\HWW’HS (H ‘YH1C HUCllWTY:
\i wwwx \H-ixma «\n 2(er S’l‘mcxe'r

N 1.3“" \"0 R K

1903

 




 

 

 

55> >32 émmzem :emeSHzE/e .
Q72 NSF/HF? 20m??? ,EQCQJ 5: mo magi/509mg

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

8

moment there is a general standing order to the police force
to cooperate with us on all occasions in the execution of law.
I am particularly gratiﬁed by a correspondence which has
recently passed between Mr. W. J. Moran, one of the Sec-
retaries of his Honor, the Mayor, and myself in regard to
the best methods of preventing the suffering caused to horses
by the slippery condition of the asphalt pavements of the
City during the winter months. The peculiarity of this cor-
respondence is that it does not consist of an appeal on our
part to the municipal authorities for a reform of objection-
able features in the management of our street roadways,
but of a request from the Executive Department of the City
Government to our Society for information to be applied in
securing the necessary improvements.

In passing from our local work to the larger work Which
lies beyond, it would be difﬁcult to distinguish by any hard
and fast lines between that which is done in the State of New
York, and that which more properly belongs to our char-
acter as the ﬁrst and only real American Society for the Pre-
vention of Cruelty to Animals. Much that is done in our
State has an inﬂuence far beyond our State boundaries. The
legislation that is enacted here has become, as it deserves
to be, the model of legislation in many distant States. The
suppression of outrageous cruelty of some peculiarly atro-
cious kinds, when it is procured here, is infallibly followed
by a movement in the same direction elsewhere. There are
many cases in which a simple representation of facts by our
Society is made the instant ground of effectual action by
the authorities Within whose jurisdiction the facts exist. And
then there are cases in which the inﬂuence of our Society has
been, and still continues to be, a powerful element in the
national legislation at Washington. ‘ More and more as the
years go by, I see the Wisdom of the policy of Mr. Bergh in
concentrating the. whole efforts of our Society upon the one
single and exclusive object of animal protection; and later
experiences, since his lamented death, have made it con-

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

16

been called from time to time to consider, there is one of
supreme importance to our Society itself. This Society
exists under a special act of the legislature by which it was
chartered. It is recognized as a body lawfully constituted
for the purpose of securing the due enforcement of all laws
for the protection of animals. In that character it has been
invested with certain (highly important and responsible ad-
ministrative functions. In every particular whatsoever it is
a creature of law, and its rights, privileges, and duties are
deﬁned and limited by law. It is therefore necessary that the
law by which and under which it exists should be unquestion-
ably lawful. A decision rendered some time ago by the Court
of Appeals of the State of New York declared certain acts
of another Society—not organized, as ours is, under a
special act, but under a general law of the State—to be
illegal under the Constitution; and it was felt that, how-
ever secure our own position might be, the act under which
we operate ought to be conformed to the very language
of the opinion delivered in this case. Accordingly, the act
has been amended by the legislature so as to correspond,
not only to the requirements of the Constitution, as we
believe it always did, but also to the very phrases used by
the Court of Appeals. This amendment of the statute was
obtained not because we believed our position to be justly
assailable, nor only because of abundant caution, but above
all because we desire our whole position to be characterized
by the most principled reverence for the letter as well as the
spirit of the law. The few necessary changes which seemed
to be required were made under the advice of very high legal
authorities; and the act of the legislature, as thus amended,
has been submitted to the Hon. Charles Andrews, of Syracuse,
formerly Chief Justice of the Court of Appeals. His opinion,
which will be published in another part of our report, traces
the whole legal history of our Society from its inception to
the present time, and reaches conclusions which every com-
petent lawyer of the State will receive as decisive. The result

 

 




 

25

eral protectors, and she was safely escorted to the Society
Headquarters, where she modestly related the above incident.

Ignorance is not a legal excuse for acts of cruelty, yet
ignorance, owing to lack of moral training or social en-
vironment, may be pleaded to some extent, in mitigation.
The Agents of the Society have been instructed to temper
justice with mercy in their dealings with offenders against
the humane laws, and to discriminate wisely between will-
ful and hasty acts. -

While shoeing a horse, a young blacksmith in a ﬁt of
anger struck the animal on the leg with a hammer, fractur—
ing the bones of the limb. The horse had to be shot.
Realizing the consequences of his act, the blacksmith made
his escape before attention had been called to the injury
done to the animal, and has not been seen by any of his
friends since. It is said the offender was a great lover of
horses and dogs, and has on several occasions rescued ani—
mals from cruel persons at personal risk to himself. Yet
in a moment of anger he committed an act which, if com-
mitted by another in his presence, would have been resented.

Complaints of almost every name and nature are made to
the Society calling attention to subjects that should be re—
ferred to municipal boards for investigation and remedy.
Yet complainants expect, and in some instances demand,
that the Society take action in matters which have no pos-
sible relevancy to the work in which it is engaged. Many
complaints, however, relating to dangerous excavations or
obstacles in the streets, which if not made safe, for the pas-
sage of animals, might result in injury to the latter, are in—
vestigated by our Agents, and if found as reported, the mat-
ter is referred to the proper authority, and it is gratifying
to report that in every instance the trouble is promptly
remedied.

Anonymous complaints stating apparent facts have been
investigated, but invariably every one turned out to have
been made from spite or to cause trouble for a neighbor.

 




 

33

such cases are the most difﬁcult to convict, for the reason
that drivers arrested for overloading can always ﬁnd sym-
pathetic witnesses who will testify in their behalf. It has
been found very effective to compel drivers to lighten the
loads no matter how much inconvenience is caused, and in
many instances our Agents have ordered the horses taken
from harness, leaving the loaded vehicle in the street.

ASPHALT PAVEMENTS

Owing to the uncalled-for sprinkling with water of the
asphalt pavements the latter are made slippery and danger-
ous. During the past year many horses have been fatally
injured by falling, and had to be shot. The action of the
water on the pavement causes the surface to become slip-
pery, and it is almost impossible for horses to keep on their
feet unless shod for such emergency. The Society has taken
a decided stand against the watering of the roadways in the
manner now conducted, on the ground that it is dangerous
for the passage of animals, and a positive cruelty to make
them travel over the slippery roads. Sand should be supplied
by the city authorities at convenient localities, in order that
the streets can be made safe for travel when the emergency
arises.

AMBULANCE AND DERRICK SERVICE

The three large ambulances of the Society have been kept
busy, likewise the derricks and slings, as well as other ani—
mal life-saving equipment. Three horses and four steers
were rescued from drowning, and ten horses hoisted out of
excavations into which they had fallen. The small ambu—
lances for the removal of homeless and injured cats, dogs,
and other small animals have been constantly in service.
Many hundreds of sick and injured animals belonging to

 




 

 

41

was summoned to appear before Justice N. P. Valentine to answer
the charge of neglecting to provide necessary sustenance for the ani—
mals. When he was arraigned, it was at once apparent to the justice
and to the Society’s agent that the prisoner was mentally irresponsible.
He was then remanded, pending his examination by a committee on
lunacy which reported him insane, so that he was ﬁnally committed
to the State Hospital. '

Fifteen of the calves being past recovery, it was found necessary
humanely to destroy them. The remaining animals were placed in
charge of Coe’s son, who has promised to look after them in the
future.

BY Justice George F. Ingalls, William F. Twillger, of Dresden,
N. Y., was ﬁned ﬁve dollars and costs of prosecution on his pleading
guilty to having treated a cat in a cruel manner. Witnesses testiﬁed
that the defendant ’had seized a neighbor’s cat by the back of the neck
and, after kicking it in a cruel manner, had thrown the animal violently
against a stone wall, where it lay gasping for some time until humanely
destroyed. ‘

POLICE OFFICER JOSEPH UNGER, of the Fifteenth Precinct, was
called upon by a poor woman who, with considerable agitation, begged
him to follow her to arrest a man for driving a sore and exhausted
horse. In-her opinion, the animal was quite unable to pull the heavily
loaded wagon to which it was attached. The ofﬁcer being guided
to the scene, he found the horse’s condition as bad as the woman had
described. The horse was immediately unharnessed and given shelter
in a near-by stable, where it was placed under the care of a veterinary
surgeon. The offender, Vincent Gombardi, was arraigned before Jus-
tice Joseph Pool, of the Fourth District Court, and held in $500 bail
for trial at the Court of Special Sessions.

CITY MAGISTRATE ZELLER caused the arrest of John Daley
by Police Ofﬁcer Harvey H. Ware, of the Thirty-second Precinct,
for the offense of attempting to drive a wretched horse, so lame,
weak, and emaciated that several livery stablemen refused even to
allow the animal to be taken into their stables. Daley was detained at
the Thirty-second Precinct, to be arraigned later before Magistrate
Zeller at the Fifth District Court, and was held in $100 bail to answer,
At the trial the magistrate himself will appear as a witness against
the prisoner. The defendant was advised to have the animal destroyed,
and ‘he ﬁnally consented to that act of humanity being performed by
an ofﬁcer of the Society.

 




 

 

 

HUHJOL SE? OF karﬂmHUOm >ﬂ >JJ<DZZ< Snail/waxy J/uﬂmz

 

 




  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

58

 
   
   
 
  
    
   
   

ARKANSAS.

Arkansas Humane Society.
Little Rock.
CHAS. F. PENZEL, President. R. W. PORTER, Secretary.

 

CALIFORNIA.

The San Francisco Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals.

403 Parrott Building, San Francisco.
N. P. COLE, President. C. B. HOLBROOK, Secretary.
The Los Angeles Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

 

Los A n geles.

DR. T. A. SEYMOUR, Pres. MRS. ELIZABETH MILLS
MILLARD, Secretary.

Santa Clara County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals.

24 West Santa Clara Street, San fosé.
DR. M. A. SOUTHWORTH, Pres. L. A. HOWE, Secretary.
San Diego Humane Society.
San Diego.
ERNEST RIALL, Pres. CHAS. W. OESTING, See.
The Sacramento County Humane Society.
424 “ K ” Street, Sacramento.

R. C. IREVIN, President. I. SCHAD, Secretary.
The Oakland Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

58 San Pablo Avenue, Oakland.
BEN]. F. MILLS, Pres. FRED JOHNS, Secretary.

Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals of San Bernardino
County, Cal.

Redlands.
JOHN B. BREED, President. MARY DENISON, Secretary.
Santa Barbara Humane Society.
1003 Stall Street, Santa Barbara.
RONALD THOMAS, President. DR. EDWARD T. BALCH, Sec.

  

 




 

 

 

 

H
i. l9
3
1 “ll“,
I l
W l
l
l ‘

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

66

Lexington and Fayette County Humane Society.
Lexington.
MRS. S. A. CHARLES, Pres. MISS JEAN’TTE E. CHARLES,

—— Secretary.

LOUISIANA.
Louisiana State Society for Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
606 Commercial Place, N ew Orleans.
HON. B. C. SHIELDS, DOUGLAS FORSYTH,
Acting President. Secretary.
MAINE.
Maine State Society for the Protection of Animals.

Portland. V

HON. STANLEY T. PULLEN, MRS. STANLEY T. PULLEN,
President. Secretary.

 

The Bangor Humane Society.
Bangor.
F. O. BEAL, President. M-RS. M. L. PATTEN, Secretary.

Waterville Society for Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
W ater'oille.
H. L. EMERY, President. ——————-——, Secretary.

Lewiston and Auburn Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals.

Lewiston. ’
WESLEY BLANCHARD, Pres. F. B. SANDS, Secretary.

 

MARYLAND.
The Maryland Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
612 N o. Calvert Street, Baltimore.
WM. WHITRID'GE, M.D., Pres. ROBT. B. HANSELL, Sec.

 

MASSACHUSETTS.

The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals.

19 Milk Street, Boston.
GEO. T. ANGELL, President. JOSEPH L. STEVENS, Sec.

  

 
   
  
  
  
    
     
  
    
    
  
     
  
    
  
   

 




 

73

ONONDAGA COUNTY.

The Central New York Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals.

Incorporated January 16, I891.
207 Granger Block, Syracuse.
DWIGHT H. BRUCE, Pres. JOHN R. CLANCY, Secretary.

ROCKLAND COUNTY.

Bockland County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Incorporated February 20, I891.

Nyack. .
, President. WILLIAM K. COLSEY, Sec.

CHEMUN G COUNTY.

The Elmira Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Incorporated February 21, 1891.

Elmira.
CHAS. s. LATTIN, President. DR. JESSIE L. HERRICK,

Secretary.
BROOME COUNTY.
Broome County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Incorporated March 23, I891.
Binghamton.
Z. BENNETT PHELPS, Pres. H. C. PRESTON, Secretary.

ULSTER COUNTY.

The Ulster County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals.

Incorporated July 25, 1891.
Kingston.
, (President. I , Secretary.

JEFFERSON COUNTY.
Jeﬂerson County Society for the Prevention of. Cruelty to Animals.
Incorporated December 5, I891.
Watertown.

JNO. C. KNOWLTON. MRS. GEO. H. BABCO‘CK, Sec.
Acting President.

 

 

 

 




 

81

The Brattleborough Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
‘ Animals.

Brattleborongh.
DR. GEO. F. GALE, President. MRS. MARY C. WARDER, Sec.

Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Rntland. .
MRS. E. P. GILSON, President. MISS G. S. SMITH, Secretary.

The Burlington Humane Society.
Burlington.
PROF. J. E. GOOD'RICH, Pres. MRS. M. L. BENEDICT, Sec.

Chester Humane Society.

 

Chester.
GEO. L. FLETCHER, Pres. MRS. LOIS A. FLETCI—éER,
ec.
Manchester Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Manchester.
HON. D. K. SIMONDS, Pres. MISS JESSIE O. HAWLEY,
Secretary.
St. Albans Humane Society.
5 t. Albans.
REV. J. O. BENNETT, MIss BESSIE C. PERKINS,
President. Secretary.
VIRGINIA.
Richmond Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Richmond. ,
CYRUS BOSSIEUX, Pres. MRS. S. N. ROBINS, Secretary.

Norfolk Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

242 M ain Street, Norfolk.
L. CLAY KILBY, President. W. B. BARTON, Secretary.

Woman’s Humane Society of Virginia.

Portsmouth.
HERMANN C. NIEMEYER, MISS M. A. BINGLEY, Sec.
President.

 

 

 




 

GERMANY—Continued.

Celle
Chemnitz

Coburg

Cologne
Constance .
Crefeld
Crimmitzschau
Dantzig .
Darmstadt
Dortmund
Dresden .
Duisburg
Dusseldorf .
Elberfeld
Elbing
Elmshorn

Essen .

Feldberg

Flensberg
Freiberg

Frankfort-on- Main
Frankfort—on-Oder .

Friederichstadt
Gelsenkirchen
Glogau

Gorlitz

Gotha . .
Greifenberg
Greifswald

U)U)<

 

- l
. Co
. S.
. S.
. S.
. S.
. S.
. S.
. S.
. S.
..S.
' Wu
0 S-
. S.
- i
- l
0 S-
S.
S.
S.
. S.
. S.
. S.
. S.
. S.
. S.
. Cen

U)U)

..A of Celle

nimal and Plant P. S. .of the
Duchy of Coburg. .

gn e S. P. A. . .

A. of Constance . .

A. of the Lower Rhine

<1."
til-494$

5.9..

C.

A.
A...
C.A..
A...
A.
A
A.
prte
.p.A

rthalerS. P. C A

.C. A. and B. .

.P. A. for the town and envi-
ronments of Essen .

P. C. A. for the town and
envir rnments of Feldberg

gmmmmmmmmmEmm

f Freiberg

A. .in Gelsenkirchen
of Gorlitz .
of the Duchy of .Gotha

Baltic Ass’ 11 Prot. A.

mmmmmmmmmm:

..C
A.
..A.
C.
C.
C.
.A.
..A
..A
a1

1'

 

 

 

 

. Dr. Schreckenberger .
. Dr. Schwarze .

Max Brodfiihrer

. Dr. Otto Hartmann
. —-— Rothenhaiisler
. —— Printzen

. —-—- Reichardt

. Dr. Borntraeger

. Dr. Eisenhuth

. H. Werneke . . .
. Dr. F. Schurig . .
. A. Van Meetereu.

. Georg Gundelach . .
. Heinrich Espenschied

. —-—- Staberow.

. M. W. Reinhardt

Prof. Dr. Meyer
-—— Koller

. A. F. J. Eiler

. Judge Vehse.

. Dr. Carl Schenck
. —— Schumann.

. W. Pollitz .

. Dr. Griittner .

. —— Richter.

. Major Rudolf von Schollen.
. L. Rausch . .

. Rev. Mr. Rittner.

. —— von Wolffrath

 

 

. Rev. K. Gartner.
. Rudolph Hartmann.

. Adam Bruckner.

. Dr. V. Wiedmann.

. Franz Walter.

. Hermann Weberling.
. Rich. Rietzch.

. Alexander G011.

. E. Heusslein.

. H. Landgraf.

. —— Hiibler.

. Carl Grundmann.
. F. Schumacher.

. -————- Engel.
. Prof. Dr. Meyer.

. —— Kaefke.

. A. Jorgensen.

. —-——Wolf.

. Alfred Geiger.

. Rev. Mr. Bieder.
. J. Sieden.

. —— Oberwinter.

.G. Volckman.

. —— Jahnke.

 

 

 

 




 

SOUTH AFRICA—Cont’d
Durban (Natal) .

East London .
Johannesburg
(S. A. R.)
Pietermaritzburg
(Natal)
SPAIN.
Barcelona

Cadiz . .
Gibraltar
Madrid
Malaga
Seville

SWEDEN.
Alingsas .
Borgholm
Eksjo
Falun .
Goteborg
Grebbestad .
Kalmar
Karlshamn .
Karlskrona .
Karlstad
Linkoping .
Lulea .
Lund .
Lund .
Lyckeby .

.S.P.
.S.P. .
.S.P...CA

. Animal Plant P. A.
.P..SA. ..

 

00°00

<d<d<d<d
mmmm

. Barcelona S. P. A. and Plants

A..
A..

. S. P. A. .

. S. P. A. . .
. Eksjo S. P. A.
. Valley S. P. A.
. S. P. Animals and Small Birds
. Grebbestad S. P. A. . .

. Kalmar S. P.

A.
A.I '

. Linkoping S. P. A
. S. P. .
. Lund S. P. A.
. Friends P. A.
. S. P.

A.

:Lionel Phillips .
. His Exc. Sir Walter Hely

. Salvador Badia y Andren
I b. s. .Govett I
. J. Garcia de Toledo

. F. Kylander .

. K. J. Hellgren .

. F. Aug. Pettersson
. C. E. von Odreich .
. Henrik Hedlund

. A. J. Molin

. A. Hellner

. Otto Berg

. N.
. Bishop C. H. Rundgreri
.Dr. A. Sterner . . .

. Rev. 0. A. Wester.

. Prof. S. L. Torngvist.

. Fredrik Krebs

. Rev. H. Bergstrom

 

 

. His Exc. Sir Walter Hely

[Hutchinson
E. H. Crouch.

[Hutchinson

Hussenins

 

Thos. W. Edmonds.

. F. W. Fitz Simons.

F. J. Dickson.

. Francisco de Maymé y Llo-

[part.

, — Romualdo.
. H. W. Bailey.

. Henry J. Huelin.
. R. de Bustamente.

97

. Albert Michelsen.

. J. Wilner.

. Edward Petri.

. E. Hedblom.

. C. J. Gardell.

. A. Alstrom.

. H. Bohman.

. Erik Leth.

. J. J. Blomberg.

. Dr. Conrad Fristedt.
. G. A. W'allen.

. K. Hallman.

. N. Lundahl.

. Aurore Ytterstrom.
. H. Stalfors.

 




 

 

105
SCHOHARIE COUNTY.
REED, H. LOUIE .......................................... Gilboa

SCHUYLER COUNTY.

WAIT, WILLIAM HENRY ............................... Watkins
WELLER, DR. F. B ..................................... Watkins

SENECA COUNTY.
KNIGHT, LEWIS J ........................................ Farmer

STEUBEN COUNTY.

ALDEN, DR. PHILO L ........................... Hammondsport
BURKE, THOMAS W .................................... Addison
LAIN, CORNELIUS H ................................... Canisteo
LANE (M.D.), GEO, W ................................... Corning
SHELDON, JOHN R ................................ Hornellsville
WILKES, ROBERT B ....................................... Bath

SUFFOLK COUNTY.

BALCHEN, OSCAR L .................................... Babylon
CALL, FRANK H ....................................... Bay Shore
CONKLIN, GEORGE W .............................. Huntington
HOMAN, C. E. C ................................... East HaInpton
HOWELL, WILLIAM M ................................. Setauket
NELSON, WILLIAIVI F ...................................... Islip
OVERTON (M.D.), FRANK ............................ Patchogue
POST, REGIS H .......................................... Bayport
REEVES, DETMOLD ................................... Greenport
ROGERS, JOHN F ................................... Southampton
. SEAMAN, JOHN D ................................... Brookhaven
SIRIONS, FRANCIS W .............................. Shelter Island
SNIITH, CHARLES F .................................. Cutchogue
SMITH, CHARLES L ................................... Northport
STRONG, JAMES S ..................................... Wainscott
SUYDAM, WALTER L ................................ Blue Point
TUNIS, OLIVER L .................................... Fairground
VAIL, ALFRED R ....................................... Southold
WELLS, GEORGE B ............................... Baiting Hollow

WIGGINS, JR., DAVID B .............................. Sag Harbor

1 ‘ ‘ L

“""l ‘ Mi.
h I I i

I H

I ‘ “9

l‘

 




 

Barth, Gustav A.

Baruch, Hartwig N.

Bates, Charles A.

Bates, Mrs. Charles A.

Battermann, H.

Bayne, S. G.

Beach, Mrs. Emily S.

Bechtel, Mrs. Eva

Beemer, James G.

Beer, Mrs. G. L.

Beinert, Charles

Belais, Mrs. D.

Belford, William J.

Bell, Bertrand F.

Bell, Gordon Knox

Bell, Jr., Master Gordon
Knox

Bell, Mrs. James

Bell, Thomas O.

Bender, George

Benedicks, Leonard

Benedict, Dr. Charles S.

Benedict, Miss Louise

Benet, Dr. Imlay

Benet, Ludovic

Benjamin, A. Bedell

Benjamin, Mrs. A. Bedell

Benjamin, Mrs. Wm. E.

Benton, Miss Louisa F.

Benton, Miss Susanna F. F.

Beramji, R.

Berlin, H. C.
Bernheimer, Mayer S.
Bernheimer, Simon E.
Bickel, Dr. Otto
Bicknell, Mrs. E. I.
Biddle, John

Billings, Miss M. M.
Bininger, Wm. B.
Birkbeck, Miss Alice
Bishop, Mrs. Heber R.
Bishop, Miss M. C.
Bishop, 3d, Wm. D.

113

Blaine, 3d, James G.
Blake, Henry

Blake, Miss Kate W.
Blake, Peter

Blashﬁeld, Mrs. Edwin H.
Blinn, Dr. F. Gray
Bliss, E. W.

Bliss, Mrs. E. W.

Bliss, Miss Ida E.

Bliss, Mrs. Justin A.
Bliss, Mrs. W. H.
Bloodgood, John H.
Bloomingdale, Charles A.
Blumberg, D.

Blyman, John

Bodine, B. J.

Boehm, Felix

Bogert, Charles E.
Bond, Frank S.

Bondy, M. S.

Borman, Sydney
Bourne, Frederick G.
Bowdoin, Miss Edith G.
Bowne, Mrs. Philip H.
Boyce, William

Boyd, Allan S.
Brackett, Edgar T.
Bradley, Miss Helen W.
Brady, Patrick

Braine, Theodore
Bramholdt, Mrs. Sophia
Breese, Miss Eloise L.
Brewster, Mrs. William
Bright, Mrs. Henry
Brinley, E. B.

Bristol, Miss Fanny L.
Britton, Charles P.
Britton, Mrs. Harriet Lord
Brookes, Mrs. E. C.
Brooks, Miss Bertha G.
Broun, Miss E. W.
Broun, Irving S.
Brown, Addison

 




Magee, John J.
Magnotti, R.

Mahlstedt, Jr., John D.
Maitland, Mrs. Helen V. V.
Maitland, T. A.

Mann, Parker

Mann, Mrs. Parker
Manney, Mrs. C.
Manigault, Mrs. Anne M.
Manson, Jr., Mrs. T. L.
Marcks, L. H.

Marks, Fred W.

Marks, Mrs. Nanette
Marsh, Frank P.
Marshall, Miss C. E.
Marshall, Mrs. E. C.
Martin, Anderson 0.
Martin, C. C.

Martin, Mrs. L. Trowbridge
Marvin, Charles D.
Marx, D.

Mason, Rev. A. DeWitt
Mason, Mrs. Thomas H.
Matthews, John H.
Matthez, Mrs. Louis H.
Mattmann, Mrs. C.
Maurer, Mrs. Henry A.
Maxwell, Henry W.
Maxwell, Mrs. Matilda
May, Moses

Mayer, David

Mayer, Siegfried W.
Mayhew, Mrs. R. F.
Maynard, Mrs. A.
Maynard, Miss Alice N.
McAllister, Miss Harriet
McAneny, George
McCaffrey, B.

McCall, John A.
McCormack, Bernard
McCurdy, Mrs. Richard A.
McDonald, J.

McEwen, Mrs. D. C.

121

McGahie, John
McGirr, E. F.
McKee, Thomas H.

McKendrick, Miss Claire F.

McKendr‘ick, Mrs. J. S.
McKenna, Mrs. Wm. L.
McKim, Mrs. R. A.
McKinstry, Mrs. L. L.
McLean, George H.
McLean, John L.
McNeille, George E.
McVickar, Edward
McVickar, W. N.
Mead, Miss Gertrude
Meagher, Mrs. T. F.
Mergle, Anton
Merriman, Mrs. Henry
Meserole, A. V.
Metzger, Mrs. Abram
Michelbacher, S.
Millar, George W.
Miller, Mrs. C. A.

Mills, Mrs. J. B.

Minck, Henry

Misch, A.

Mitchell, John A.
Mitchell, A. Roger
Moffatt, Mrs. Cleveland
Moller, Edwin Clarence
Moller, Peter

Moller, Mrs. Peter
Moller, Miss S. Adelina
Monahan, Thomas
Monroe, Augustin
Monroe, Mrs. Elbert B.
Montant, A.

Montant, Jules A.
Montant, Mrs. Jules A.
Montgomery, George L.
Moore, Albert Hanford
Morgan, E. D.
Morgan, George H.
Morgan, Wm. F ello-wes

H
Ml

ill! 4
‘ . I

 

l, J H“,

l

x
l
D
x

A
4

 




 

 

DONATIONS RECEIVED DURING
YEAR

1902.

 

A
“ A. B., Mrs.” ............ $5
Abraham & Straus ....... 5
Ackerman, Adelaide ...... 5
Aldrich, Mrs. Jas. Herman 10
American Leather Co- - - . 5
American Transfer Co. - -. 10
Anderson, Mrs. A. Ann 100
Andrews, P, J ........... 5
Andrews, Mrs. P. J ...... 5
Anonymous ............. 350
Anonymous ............. 100
Anonymous ............. 5
Anonymous ............. 20
Anonymous ............. 5
Anonymous ............. 3
Anonymous ............. 3
Anonymous ............. 1
Anonymous ............. 10
Anonymous ........... L. 5
Anonymous ............. 20
Anonymous ............. 1
Anonymous ............. 1
Anonymous ............. 1
Anonymous ............. 5
Anthony, Mrs. N. W ..... 5

Arnold, Constable & Co. 5

Ashforth, Mrs. Freda ..... 10
Ashley, Miss Jessie ....... 5
Astor, Mrs. J. J .......... 50
Austin, Nichols & Conn 10
B
Babcock, Miss E. A ...... IO
Badger, Horace D ....... 3
Bailey, Mrs J M ........ IO

Baker Mrs Cha11cs V. B. I
Baldwin, Mrs. Wm. H ,Jr. 5
Bardwcll, W, A .......... 2

Barker, Miss Isabel R...
Barnes, Mr. and Mrs .....
Barnes, Miss Mildred. . . .
Barnes, R, S .............
Bates, Mrs. A. F .........
Baylies, Mrs. Edmund L.
Beaton, George A ........
Bechtel Brewing Co., Geo.
Beckwith, Mrs ...........
Behu, Mrs ...............
Bell, Thomas .............
Benet, Miss Lilian .......
Benjamin, A. Bedell .....
Bergh, Henry ............
Berry, E. W .............
Berthele, J G ............
Birns Morris ............
Bishop, Mrs. Heber R
“ Black ’Rastus, Chip, and
Colonna”
Blackwell, Miss F. W.-
Bliss, Miss Susan D .....
Bloodgood, John H ......
Bochmann, F. A .........
Bogert, Edward C -------
Borderi’s Condensed Milk
Co.
Bossert & Son, Louis
Brett, Miss Carrie ........
Broun, Miss E. W .......
Brower, Theopolis A .....
Brown, Miss Alice .......
Brown & Seccomb .......
Bunce John .............
Burger & Hower Brewing

nnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnn

Co
Burnett, R W ...........
Burns, Mrs. George W--
Burrell, Samuel P ........
Butler, Mrs. Theron R
Butts, Mrs. L. A .........

 




M
E'M ”'M
'MM‘ MMM

M
MMMM

MMMM M

MM M
MMM
MMMMM
MM

f ueS

° sopBuV 50'}

:I In3S
'vmuosmvg

11°03 911m
'vnozmv

'svsnvxuv
uosonl
' w'eqﬁuguuig
anqow
'VNVHV’IV

950

0111911181988
' oBayq 11123

0381911131
'NOIlVDO'I

 

S 9111,

131303 oueumH 0391(1 Hes
'V '3 “d “S QIIQOIAI

' 1108911150 'V '3 a 'S

'V 'C) 'd 'S 59193UV SO'I GILL
' 5191303 oueumH umqﬁuyunig

*'V '3 'ci '8 (”SPHERE UPS 911i
' *'>1.IV 51303 9111?] go Aiaroog oueumH

'V '3 'a 'S Ai-unog 12.11213 mung

'ALEIIDOS :10 HWVN

'1291{ 193513 *
' Aiopog aueumH Kiunog) OJUQLUBJOB

'1d9ﬁ

'paqsudmoooe

' 'epeueg pu'e 591213 panun sq; moqﬁnoxqi 531191305

 

I I . I I Cases prosecuted in the
' ' ' : courts.

SI
96
S

 

- - Disabled animals tempo-
: . I rarily suspended from
- - labor.

86
13S:

or
1.5

 

Horses, mules, and other

. . large animals disabled

2 3 Fast recovery, humane-
destroyed.

SS
9
KM

 

Small animals homeless or
, disabled past recovery,
- - - . humanely destroyed.

L17
ogz

 

_ . . . . . Disabled horses and other
. . . . . . large animals removed

° ' ' from streets in ambu-
lances.

5
LL

Complaints received and
investigated.

goz
SS
SSzz
$17

 

 

 

L91

 

parpupl Kq z061 maK sq; Burmp paqsudmoooe 1110111 sq: 31111111qu 58 Bunsexawr puno; aq mm Klemwns 31111110110} 3LLL
'z061 ‘18 HEIEIWEIDHCI {)NICINEI HVHA HOJ SOILSILVLS

9.13M spxoaox on .10 oIqeneA'e iou 9.19M samﬁg sq; 5.191110 11; pun ‘poAraoaJ 3011 919M suodox sooumsui Knew 11}

52M )[JOM ou 121p mono; 10a saop 11 ‘pammo one samSg aSneoag

 




 

BRITISH No. AMERICA.—
Continued.

St. John, N. B. . . New Brunswick S. P. C. A.
Toronto. . . . . Toronto Humane Society .
Fredericton . . . Fredericton S. P. C. A.
Moncton . . . . Moncton S. P. C. A. . . . . . . . . .
Winnipeg. . . VVinnipegS. P. CA. . . . . . . . . .
St. John’,s N’ﬂd.. St. Joh’..nsSPCA. . . . . . . . . .
Sherbrooke . . . Sherbrooke S. P. C. A. . I I 8
Victoria. . . . . Victoria Branch, British Col. S. P. C. A . 7 5 I39

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

* Fiscal year. 1’ Large and small.

145

“v... .w.«,__=u-_.

 

 




 

    
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   

HISTORY.

Prior to the enactment of the statute entitled “ An Act to
Prevent the Cruel and Improper Treatment of Cattle,” intro-
duced in England in July, 1822, by the late highly esteemed
Mr. Martin, the general treatment of animals in all countries
of the world was inhuman.

* “Whether from ignorance, thoughtlessness, heedlessness,
or wanton brutality, animals were subjected to extreme pain
and torture, and their condition failed to excite the commiser-
ation of the public. The best classes of society contained a few
persons only who openly protested against this cruelty, While
the majority were engaged in divers pastimes that caused
much animal suffering, and regarded with scorn and indigna-
tion any appeal made to them in favor of the brutes. Naturally,
the lower and lowest orders were therefore more or less insen-
sible to the claims of lower animals; taking cue as well as ex-
ample from their betters, they also indulged in cruel sports
and maintained a right in man to behave toward dumb do-
mestic dependents as he pleased. In fact, the protests of
humane people were silenced by ridicule which came from the
platform, the pulpit, and the senate, as well as from the galled
pens of satirists.

“ No better instance can be quoted of the prevailing indiffer-
, ence of men in even the highest social position to the feelings
of animals than the mocking treatment of the Peers when
Lord Erskine stood up in the House of Lords, in the early

* From the 74th Annual Report of the Royal Society, London.

 

 




 

 

 

147

part of the present century (1811), to ask for justice to the
lower creatures of God. Insensible alike to his moderate de-
mands and appeals for compassion and mercy to all defenseless
animals that man had pressed into his service, the chamber
broke out into open derision when he argued in favor of their
rights to humane treatment.- It is said that loud jeers, vulgar
ejaculations, indecorous demeanor, and even whistling and
cock—crowing were practically the only reply given to the
grand speech of this high—souled man. N o wonder, therefore,
that the man in the street ridiculed also, and that callous coach-
men and other persons vented their unrestrained passions on
animals without let or hindrance. The public records of eighty
years ago certainly do ShOW that the friends of the brutes were
few, and their foes many and cruel.

“ The most reckless and savage punishment, and the most
disgusting disregard to the bodily sufferings of animals, were
exhibited unconcealed in the highways and streets daily; fester-
ing sores, discharging wounds, excruciating lameness, and
tottering inﬁrmity called not forth modern devices to evade
public reprobation, and without disguise the lash and goad
worked their bloody inﬂictions. The uncombined efforts of
a few benevolent individuals were no check to these. evils; and
hence it became necessary to establish a society which should
unite the friends of dumb animal creatures.

“ The founders of this Society met on the 16th of June, 1824,
and inaugurated the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals, appointed a committee, and conceived the following
plan of operations:

1. The circulation of suitable tracts gratuitously, or by cheap sale,
particularly among persons intrusted with cattle, such as coach—
men, carters, and drovers.

2. The introduction into schools of books calculated to impress on
youth the duty of humanity to inferior animals.

3. Frequent appeals to the public through the press, awakening more
general attention to a subject so interesting, though too much
neglected. I

i
‘l
l
1m

 

l
l
ill
I

M }

“ll 4‘

lill‘ill 1
till l
lip

11
M

l

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

I48

4. The periodical delivery of discourses from the pulpit.

5. The employment of constables in the markets and streets; and

6. The prosecution of persons guilty of ﬂagrant acts of cruelty, with
publicity to the proceedings, and announcement of results.

“Steadily working by the above means, bravely bearing
contumely and overcoming difﬁculties, the founders became
stronger year after year: subscribers and co—workers gradually
joined their ranks; and a marked improvement slowly mani-
fested itself in the treatment of animals. Then followed the
distinguished patronage of Her Most Gracious Majesty the
Queen, Her Royal Highness the late Duchess of Kent, the
Nobility, and many distinguished Members of both Houses
of Parliament; and in .1840, by command of Her Majesty, the
Society was honored with the preﬁx of ‘ Royal.’ Since that
period its progress has been regular, and its achievements en-
couraging, and now it is regarded as a permanently estab-
lished institution, which has outlived ridicule, and secured for
its founders the esteem of good and practical men of this
and succeeding generations.

“ During many years the committee advocated the removal
and enlargement of Smithﬁeld Market. Owing to its agency,
bull-baiting, bull-running, cock-ﬁghting, badger—baiting, and
other wicked sports of a barbarous age have been prohibited
by legal enactments. In 183 5 the Society obtained an amend-
ment of Martin’s Act; in 1845 an amendment of the law for
regulating Knackers’ Yards; in 1849 a new and much im-
proved Act for the more effectual Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals; and in 1854 an Act prohibiting the use of dogs as
beasts of draft or burden throughout England; and recently
many other Acts of Parliament.”

The ﬁrst society organized in America for the protection
of animals was The American Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, its founder and ﬁrst president being the
late Henry Bergh, to whose noble self—sacriﬁces and untiring
energies the cause of animal protection in this country owes

 

 




 

 

149

its origin. The history of the Society, therefore, is practically
an account of the inception and development of the work of
animal protection in America.

In 1862 Mr. Bergh was appointed Secretary of Legation at
St. Petersburg. While in Russia he found himself on several
occasions constrained to interfere in cases of atrocious cruelty,
and but for his ofﬁcial position he would have been exposed to
personal violence. His attention was thus directed to the sub-
ject of humanity to the brute creation, and while in London
on his way home in 1865, he made the acquaintance of
John Colam, Esq., Secretary of the Royal Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, who gave him much
valuable information concerning the operations of that Society
in England. On Mr. Bergh’s arrival at home, he found'that
no similar society existed in this country, and he immediately
devoted himself to the establishment of a society for the
United States. At the outset the proposition met with little
encouragement, and, without the assistance of the press, it
might probably have failed. On February 8, 1866, Mr. Bergh
delivered a lecture in Clinton Hall, in which he pleaded his
cause with such force of argument and such warmth of elo-
quent conviction, that expressions of sympathy and offers of
assistance were freely made by persons in attendance. The
press then lent its powerful aid; the lecture was published in
whole or in part in all the great cities of the country; public
sentiment in favor of Mr. Bergh’s movement was quickly
aroused, and on April 10, I866, “ The American Society for
the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals ” was incorporated by
the Legislature of the State of New York. Among the orig-
inal charter members of the Society were many of the most
eminent citizens of the City and State of New York.

On the 19th of April, in the same year, Mr. Bergh secured
the passage by the Legislature of New York of the ﬁrst law
ever enacted in this country for the protection of animals. It
provided that “ every person who shall, by his act or neglect,
maliciously kill, maim, wound, injure, torture, or cruelly beat

l

ll

l

l“!‘ L, ‘

l

l .
ll ',
‘l ‘\‘

 

 




   
   
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
     
  
   
  
     

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

150

any horse, mule, cow, cattle, sheep, or other animal, belonging
to himself or another, shall, upon conviction, be adjudged
guilty of a misdemeanor.” 4

On the 22d of April a meeting was held in Clinton Hall for
the purpose of effecting a permanent organization, and at that
meeting the ﬁrst society for the protection of animals in this
country came into active existence. The purpose of the as-
sociation, as set forth in its constitution, was “to provide ef-
fective means for the prevention of cruelty to animals through—
out the United States, to enforce all laws which then were or
might thereafter be enacted for the protection of animals, and
to secure, by lawful means, the arrest and conviction of all
persons found violating such laws.” As a matter of fact, the
only law of that kind then to be found on the statute books of
the States of the Union was that which had been passed by
the Legislature of New York nine days after the incorporation
of the Society. Within twelve months, however, another “ act
for the more effectual prevention of cruelty to animals ” was
passed by the Legislature of the same State; and from time to
time additions have been made to it, so that there is now
hardly a phase of cruelty which the Society has not the legal
power to prevent within the boundaries of the State of New
York. The legal deﬁnition of the word “ animal” now inv
cludes every living creature except members of the human
race, and the words “torture” and “ cruelty” include every
act, omission, or neglect whereby unjustiﬁable physical pain,
suffering, or death is caused or permitted.

ORGANIZATION OF OTHER SOCIETIES—PROGRESS OF THE
WORK.

The organization and inﬂuence of The American Society
soon led to the establishment of local societies in all parts of
the Union and in other countries on the American Continent
and elsewhere. The number of 10cal societies incorporated

 




 

151

in the United States is now 222, and in other American nations
21 societies have been established and incorporated since 1866,
making a total of 243.

The prevention of cruelty to animals has been the beginning
of many other humane organizations. Thus, in 1874, the So-
ciety appeared as prosecutor in a case of cruelty to children,
and it then appeared to be advisable to organize a separate
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children. This
was done in 1875, under the Presidency of Mr. John D.
Wright; Mr. Henry Bergh becoming Vice-President of the
new society, the ﬁrst of its kind in the world, which has done
so much and such effectively good work in the last twenty-
eight years.

The establishment of these and other organizations has rep-
resented an increased interest in humane work which has
found a practical expression in the legislation of nearly every
State in the Union. At this date there is not a single State in
which cruelty of any kind is not forbidden by the law, under
stringent penalties for disobedience. Some defects continue
to exist, of course; but, speaking broadly, it may be said that
the laws on this subject are good. What is now required is
that the great mass of the people shall be educated into sym-
pathy with the humanity of the law. That is now the greatest
work of the Society, and it has constant reason to be grateful
for the assistance and encouragement which it receives from
the press, the pulpit, and the judges of the courts.

The abuses growing out of the then prevailing systems of
dog catching and impounding having become so flagrant as
to demand immediate checking, a bill, entitled “ An Act for
the better protection of lost and strayed animals, and for
securing the rights of the owners thereof,” was prepared by
the President of the Society and introduced into the Legisla-
ture of 1894, providing for the abolishment of the city dog
pound, and empowering the Society to carry out the provisions
of the act. This bill became a law on March 8, 1894 (Chap. II 5,
Laws 1894), and the Society immediately thereupon com—

 




 

I64

no other interpretation. It may very well be that an appro-
priation by the Legislature of public money under the guise
of a contract would be a gift within Section 9, Article VIII of
the Constitution provided the contract was not one which the
State was authorized to make. But where no evasion is at—
tempted and the appropriation is not made as a gratuity, but
is founded upon a consideration Which the Legislature may
lawfully recognize, it is not condemned by this section. If
invalid its invalidity must be found» in some other prohibition
or provision of the Constitution. The substantial answer
to the constitutional o‘bjection raised under Section 9, Article
VIII is that the provision in Section 8 of the Law of ggoz is
not, in terms or in substance, a gift of money to The American
Society. This provision devotes the license fees to defraying
the expense of executing the police policy of the State in
respect to the licensing system established by the Act of
1902, and of enforcing the criminal statutes relating to cruelty
to animals and other cognate subjects. The work done by the
Society in respect to these matters has been referred to, and
its importance and the efﬁciency of the Society as the recog-
nized agency to secure the enforcement of these statutes is
known and acknowledged. The discharge of the duties in-
trus-ted to The American Society involves large expenditures
in carrying on the organization, employing agents, maintain-
ing a shelter for the temporary detention of animals, main—
taining an ambulance system, and other similar purposes.
There can, we conceive, be no question that the Legislature
could properly charge the expense of executing the license
system and the compensation of its agents in aiding in the
enforcement of the provisions of Title XVI of the Penal Code
upon the license fund. This is all that was done by Section 8
of the Act of 1902. Payments by the State for these purposes
is in an accurate sense a discharge of the obligations of the
State incurred in "the administration of its police power.
Compensation made by the State to an individual or to a cor-
porate body for public service rendered at its instance is

 




