 

 

 

 

 

THE AMERICAN SOCIETY

FOR THE

PREVENTION OF CRIIELTY TO ANIMALS

INCORPORATED BY THE STATE OF NEW YOKK,
APRIL IO, 1866.

40>

TWENTY-EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT

 

JOHN P. I—IAINES, PRESIDENT.

DECEMBER 31, 1893.

HEADQUARTERS OF THE SOCIETY:
IO EAS'I‘ T\\'ICN’I‘Y-SICCOND STREET,
NEW YORK.
1894.

 




 

 

Press of J. J. Little & Co.
Astor Place, New York

 

 




 

 

I894.

ChHHCERS OF THE ERXHETY.

Freshly/1t.
JOHN P. HAINES.

V [cc-I 51312011 [3.

 

ELBRIDGE T. GERRY, ALFRED WAGSTAEE,
BENJAMIN D. HICKS, MORRIS K. JESUP,
REV. MORGAN DIX, S.T.I)., JOIIN CLAELIN,
FREDERIC GALLATIN, PARKE GODWIN,
W. C. SCHERMERIIORN, CHARLES LANIER.

Execuz‘z'vc Commit/(c.

ELBRIDGE T. GERRY, EDWARD A. HAMMOND,
BENJAMIN D. HICKS, GEORGE G. DEWIT'I‘,

ANSON PHELPS STOKES, JAMES GRANT WILSON,
JOSEPH II. CIIOATE, FREDERIC R. COUDERT,
ARTHUR I}. CLAFLIN, WILLIAM WALDORE ASTOR,
GEORGE G. HAVEN, FRICIHCRICK W. VANDEREIL'I‘,
HORACE RUSSELL, WILLIAM FAHNES’I‘OCK,

WILLIAM 1’. ST. JOHN.

Treasury/1
CHARLES LANIER.

(You 1231’1 .
HORACE RUSSELL.

Sucre/(1111'.
GEORGE G. DEWITT.

Assistant Trcbsm'er.
JOSEPH W. EDWARDS.

51115817711?”sz2‘.
CHARLES H. HANKINSON.

V Melina/3' Szu‘gcmz.
SAMUEL K. JOHNSON.

I3 Willoughby Street, Brooklyn.

Inspector.
F. O. CLARK.

 

 

Veterinary Smgcmz.
L. MCLEAN.

 




 

 

ADDRESS OF THE PRESIDENT.

 

Ladies and Gentlemen .-

In my last Annual Report I laid before you the reasons which
seemed to me to justify the belief that the work of our Society
must be more and more of an educative character, and that our
chief endeavor must henceforth be to disseminate sentiments of
humanity among all classes of the community, so as not only to
prevent the commission of speciﬁc acts of cruelty, but to make
cruelty itself odious. During the past year this view of our work
has been abundantly and variously conﬁrmed in the course of our
practical operations. Day by day we have been impressed with a
conviction that nothing done by our Society is of permanent
value except in so far as it has some educative influence. To
rescue thousands of animals from ill usage is a good work in
itself, if it were to be followed by no other good result ; and yet
it is only a partial and temporary alleviation of the mass of
animal suffering, unless it is made to reach the root of the evil.
To punish an ignorant man for brutally heating or overloading
his horse is absolutely useless unless the punishment operates as a
restraint, and half its efﬁcacy consists in the educative impression
produced by the enforcement of the moral principle which justi-
ﬁes the law.

We are learning more and more that moral education must ac-
company good legislation. Good laws are of inestimable value
in giving the sanction of the State to the promotion of good
ends; but, in practice, the efﬁcacy of a law depends upon the
intelligent sympathy of the people with the purpose of the law,
and a law which the people do not understand, or to which they
are opposed, is exceedingly difﬁcult to enforce. Thus, the laws
of the State of New York are amply sufﬁcient to restrain the cruel
practices of docking horses and dishorning cattle; yet both of
those practices continue to be carried on in spite of all efforts to

 




 

 

6

suppress them. The former is sustained by a caprice of fashion
which refuses to be thwarted by considerations of justice or hu-
manity, and, illegal though it is, docking is constantly done with
such secrecy as to defy detection and to escape punishment.
Dishorning is a cruel, useless and injurious practice, yet it has
been so commended to farmers by various interested parties as to
have become widely prevalent, and although it is carried on in open
violation of the law, it is difﬁcult to suppress in any farming com—
munity. The magistrate before whom the offender must be
brought is an elective ofﬁcer, dependent for his place upon the
good will of his neighbors, with whom, moreover, he is commonly
in sympathy; and when there is any risk that an intelligent and
humane magistrate will enforce the law, the defendant uses his
legal right to demand a trial by jury, with a perfect assurance that
no jury of the neighborhood will convict him. 1 am far from
saying that the law which is thus deﬁed is useless. I regard it as
of immense importance, because it puts dockers and dishorners
on the defensive, and because it is a standing declaration that
their conduct is criminal. Nevertheless, it is painfully evident
that docking will continue to be practised until the fashionable
world shall be so educated in morals as to be incapable of marring
the beauty of a noble animal by a horrible operation, and that,
until farmers shall learn that dishorning is both injurious and
cruel, they will continue to dishorn their cattle.

Our efforts during the past year have been more than ever directed
to the dissemination of humane principles. Our little publication,
entitled “A Manual of Kindness,” has been favorably received.
It has been 'widely introduced to schools and families at home,
and I have recently learned that it is to be translated into
French. “ Our Animal Friends” continues to be one of our most
effectual missionary agencies. Our publications of one kind and
another have been scattered abroad to the amount of about
Io,ooo,ooo printed pages, and we regard this as nothing more
than a good beginning. Quite as important as our own publica-
tions, is the increasing interest of the press in animal life and in
the prevention of animal suffering. Several of our most important
daily and monthly periodicals ﬁnd that there is a growing demand
for articles on the subject, and they respond to the demand with

 




 

7

\

gratifying liberality. The press, as a whole, has become our most
efﬁcient auxiliary, and when fault is found with our Society for
real or supposed failures to suppress particular forms of cruelty,
we have always found the representatives of the press to be ready
and desirous to ascertain and publish the whole truth, as well as
to lend us their invaluable aid in propagating humane principles
and sentiments.

It is partly because of a marked increase of public interest in
our work that the practical operations of the past year have been
so much larger in some directions than in any former year.

The number of complaints investigated is greater than ever
before, and the reason is that the complaints have been more
numerous. The Society invites all persons to co-operate with it
by informing its ofﬁcers of'any act of cruelty, and of every case of
animal suffering, which may fall under their notice, With our
limited staff of ofﬁcers it is evident that even the cities of New
York and Brooklyn cannot be effectively policed unless the
citizens themselves will act as our agents, so far, at least, as to let
the Society know where its intervention is needed. The co-opera-
tion of citizens in that way is, perhaps, the most valuable assistance
that our ofﬁcers receive. I need hardly say that it is urgently
invited, and that complaints made in compliance with our own
request are never neglected. During the past year many citizens
have responded to our request, and hence the number of cases
investigated is an indication of increased public interest in our
work.

The decrease in the number of animals suspended from labor
on account of sickness or other disability, is a gratifying evidence
of improvement in the treatment of horses by owners of the poorer
class. Gradually it is beginning to be felt, even among that class,
that animals have rights which the law of the land requires to be
respected. They do not insist quite so often as formerly that “a
man has a right to do what he will with his own,” and, therefore,
has a right to abuse his own cattle. There is greater care than
there was some years ago in the loading of animals, and the driving
of horses when unﬁt for work is growing less frequent. Hence,
the number of instances in which our ofﬁcers are obliged to sus-
pend them from labor altogether has been somewhat diminished.

 




 

 

8

There is still a fearful amount of cruelty—thoughtless, senseless,
and ignorant, as well as savage cruelty—but I believe it to be
decreasing, and I believe that the decrease is largely due to the
steady inﬂuence of this Society.

Another cheering sign of growing inﬂuence is the enlargement
of our membership during the past year, and the personal activity
of our members in the practical work of the Society. A beautiful
example of humanity will shortly be erected by one of our
members in one of the most frequented thoroughfares of the
city. Mrs. Marie Guise Newcomb, the distinguished artist and
accomplished painter of animal life, has presented to the Society
funds sufﬁcient for the erection of a granite fountain for the
refreshment of man and beast. This fountain will be placed at
the junction of Third and Fourth Avenues, in front of the Cooper
Union building. It is now under construction, and will be erected
early in the Spring. For generations to come it will be a place of
refreshment for thousands and thousands of horses, which would
otherwise be constrained to work for man while suffering for lack
of one of God’s bounties to man and beast alike. Even by night,
the great lamp with which it is to be surmounted will attract the
gaze of many a toiler of the night, and make him think humanely
of the creature which, like himself, is required to work while
others sleep. So long as this fountain shall stand, the name
of Marie Guise Newcomb will not cease to be remembered
with grateful veneration.

In New York City the recognition of our Society as a regular
and important adjunct to the police force of the State, has been
signiﬁcantly emphasized by the setting apart for the use of our
Society of a room in the new Criminal Court building.

Within the past few weeks it has been proposed that our Society
shall be authorized by the State to establish a Shelter for lost,
strayed and homeless animals, and that the Shelter shall take the
place and fulﬁll the present functions of the public dog pound.
The proposal is urged in the interest of the owners of animals as
well as in the interest of humanity. It is urged that this humane
work, to be truly effective and not dangerous, must be committed
to a society like our own, which is endowed with the police powers
of the State, and which is responsible for the use it may make of

 




 

 

 

IO

and effective interest in our cause ; to the judges and officers of
the courts for their unfailing courtesy to our ofﬁcers, and their
impartial administration of the law in cases in which our Society
is interested ; to the police for their cordial co-operation with our
agents in the prevention of acts of cruelty ; and, particularly. to
the many gentlemen throughout the State who have accepted the
commission of the Society, and are acting as its agents, without
remuneration, in the places where they live. We have found in
our experience that one such zealous agent is more practically
useful in many places than a local society, without the means to
prosecute, could possibly be. To yourselves, ladies and gentle-
men, and to all the friends and supporters of our Society, I
sincerely wish a New Year of that noblest happiness which comes
from conscious usefulness in the service of God and the creatures

He has made. .
JOHN P. HAINES,

january [31, 1894. President.

 

 




 

 

REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE
COMMITTEE.

INASMUCH as the reports of the Treasurer and Superintendent
give in detail the work of the Society and its ﬁnancial condi-
tion, your Committee will but brieﬂy allude to other matters of
interest.

Mr. Charles Lanier resigned as a member of the Executive
Committee, but will continue to serve the Society as Treasurer
and as one of its Vice-Presidents.

Mr. \Villiam P. St. John was elected a member of the Execu-
tive Committee to ﬁll the vacancy caused by the resignation of
Mr. Lanier.

One hundred and fifty-live new members have been elected,
and thirty-ﬁve special agents have been appointed during the
past year.

A stall, with medical attendance, for the free treatment of sick
horses belonging to poor persons has been placed at the dis-
posal of the Society by Alex. Liautard, Dean of the American
Veterinary College; likewise a stall for the treatment of horses,
and a kennel for the treatment of small animals, by Dr. S. K.
Johnson, of the New York Veterinary Hospital; all of which
have been gratefully accepted.

The work has been extended, and increased public interest in
the cause of animal protection is daily manifested, for all of
which the Society is to be congratulated.

That omnipotent sovereign, Death, during the year past has
removed from the sphere of their humane inﬂuence nineteen
devoted friends of the Society, whose names will be found in
the obituary record.

GEORGE G. DE WITT,
Secretary.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 




 

REPORT OF THE TREASURER.

NEW YORK, fannary I, 1894.

To 2716 Anzerz'ean Society for Me Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals :

The Treasurer begs leave to report that the balance brought
over December 31, 1892, was $91,459.48. The receipts from all
sources during the year ending December 31, 1893, were $114,—
099.21, making a total of $205,558.69. The sum expended and
invested during the year was $192,343.84, leaving a balance of
$13,214.85. The following ﬁnancial statement will show the
sources whence the revenue has been derived, and also the ac—
counts under which funds have been disbursed during the above—

1nentioned period.

Respectfully submitted,
CHARLES LANTER,

Treasurer.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

l“'&ﬂ.\skmvd-L..' 1 .7...

,14

CHARLES LANIER, Treasurer, in account wit/z THE AMERICAN

 

 

 

 

 

 

1892 I)R.
Dec. 31. To Cash Balance on deposit in Union Trust Co. . . . $91,459 48
“ “ Bequest Estate Mary A. Weir . . . . . . 1,000 00
“ “ “ Arabella]. F. Johnson . . . 436 00
“ “ “ “ Fredericka \N. Waring . . . 26,624 12
“ “ “ “ Mary Stuart . . . . . . 25,062 50
“ “ “ “ Daniel Buhler . . . . . . 3,000 00
“ “ “ “ Richard Bell . . . . . . 2,000 00
“ “‘ “ “ Ada Mower . . . . . . 12 Q5
“ “ “ “ Ella S. Hoffman . . . . . 5,000 00
“ “ “ “ Amelia G. Ullmann . . . . 15,045 80
“ “ Members’ Subscriptions and Donations . . . 6,465 50
“’ “ Fines. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4,213 90
“ “ From other sources . . . . . . . . . 25,238 44

 

$205,558 69

 

 

 

 

1893
Dec. 31. To Cash Balance on deposit . . . . . $12,177 48

“ “ “ indrawer . . . . . 1,03737—$13,21485

.7 “A. __ #_________._______________.__
7 _*——’_—________’___‘.47k# _ 7 7 .._.2,

 

 

 

 

We, the undeisigned, have this day examined the accounts of
as exhibited to 11s by books and vouchers, and ﬁnd them co1rect

 

 




 

 

 

    

pl

15

SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ;\I\'II\I:\LS.

 

1893 CR.
Dec. 31. By Cash Disbursements from January Ist to date, for
Maintenance of Society, Salaries, Printing,
Stationery, IA’Ostage, Fuel, Light, Rewards,
Gratuitous Distribution of Humane Litera-
ture, Publications other than “Our Animal

Friends,” of the Society, except as stated
below. . . . . . . .... . .$34,26505

“ “ Ambulance House Expenses, IVIaintenance,

including Feed, Food and Medicines for

Abandoned and Homeless Animals, and

Maintenance of Kennels . . . . . . . 2,230 48
“ “ Brooklyn Ofﬁce . . . . . . . . . . . 6,198 10
“ “ Rent . . . . . . .. . . . . . . 4,000 00
“ “ Our Animal Fi’zmza’s . . . . . . . . 14,153 09
“ “ Furniture Account . . . . . . . . . 58g 50
“ “ Library Account . . . . . . . . . . 288 31
“ “ Fountain Account . . . . . . . . . 749 21
“ “ Ambulance House Equipment . . . . . 48 25
“ “ Taxes and Insurance . . . . . . . . . 2,746 99
“ “ Repairs to Ixeal Estate . . . . 278 61

“ “ Bond andMortgage, Horgan&Slattery . . 100,000 00
“ “ U. S. Gov’t4fn’ Bonds. . . . .$26,750 00

“ “ Commission . . . . . . . . 14 00
:r: 26,764 00
“ “ Estate Margaret A. Merritt . . . . . . . 8 25
“ “ “ Frances Clifford . . . . . . . . 24 00
“ “ Balance on deposit in Union Trust
Co., drawing interest . . . $12,177 48
“ “ In drawer . . . . . . . . . 1,037 37

2::11::: 13,214 85

 

$205,558 69

 

 

 

 

The American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals,
and in accordance therewith.

BENJAMIN D' HICKS’ , iAzm’z'z‘z'Izg Committee.
JAMES GRANT WILSONJ

 




 

 

 

REPORT OF THE SUPERINTENDENT.

THIS year’s report of the work of alleviating suffering and
preventing abuse of animals shows a marked increase in the
number of complaints investigated.

It must not be assumed, however, that cruelty is more preva-
lent than heretofore by reason of the larger showing; it is
owing to the vigilance exercised, the efﬁciency of new methods
adopted, and the vigorous prosecution of wilful violators of the
humane laws of the State.

Many new phases of cruelty have been detected, the nature of
which cannot be explained here in detail ; neither is it necessary
to shock the tender feelings of those interested in the work of
animal protection by particularizing special cases investigated.
Nothing, however, has been left undone to mitigate suffering
and prevent abuse of animals of all species.

There are so many branches of mechanical as well as profes-
sional labor in which horses and other animals are employed
that to classify them would take up too much space, which can-
not be accorded in this report. A few of them, however, will
serve to give an idea of what they are, and the necessity for the
exercise of intelligent judgment in carrying on the important
work.

Much trouble is occasioned from time to time by citizens
sending in anonymous complaints, and many acts of gross cruelty
go unpunished for want of more deﬁnite information. A large
number of cases have been abandoned owing to the unwilling-
ness of witnesses to testify at the trials of offenders.

The following brief statement will give some idea of the char—
acter and magnitude of the work, with particulars of a few of

 

 

 




 

 

 
   
    
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  

A *mmmtmwy 1L.“ was: at Mguuwmilst‘x-g {any :: .7 . It; ,

18

the derrick and slings, as well as other animal life-saving equip-
ment. Eight horses have been rescued from drowning, and ten
hoisted out of excavations into which they had accidentally fallen.

The small ambulance for the transportation of homeless and
injured cats, dogs, and other small animals, has been in constant

USC.

STOCKYARDS AND SLAUGHTER—HOUSES.

The conveying of sheep and calves from stockyards to slaugh-
ter-houses, and the methods of loading and unloading them, have
been reformed. Ofﬁcers have been in attendance at the abat-
toirs ; likewise the stockyards, and on vessels carrying animals,
and nothing has been omitted to insure humane treatment of
animals destined for human food at home or abroad. This
phase of the work requires constant Vigilance, and is, at times,
fraught with dangers, as the following will show :

About two o’clock one morning the attention of the ofﬁcer on
duty at the sheep-house at Sixty—third Street and Eleventh Ave-
nue was attracted by an unusual commotion in one of the dark
corners of the building. Cautiously approaching the spot, he
saw a cow in the grasp of several men, some holding her by the
nose,others by the tail, while two were standing ready with bale-
sticks uplifted, to strike the animal whenever and wherever an
opportunity offered. Before the ofﬁcer could interfere, one of
the men struck the helpless creature a fearful blow on the neck,
and was about to repeat it when the ofﬁcer sprang forward and
seized him. His companions left their four-footed victim, and
attempted his rescue; but the ofﬁcer, single-handed, fought
them off and succeeded in taking the prisoner to the station-
house, nearly half a mile distant. The rufﬁans would, no doubt,
have killed the ofﬁcer but for his great physical strength and
strategy. “I kept the prisoner always to the front,” said he,
“and when any of the gang struck at me, the blow would invari—
ably fall on their friend, who cursed them roundly and told them
to desist, which they reluctantly did. On my return to the
sheep-house for my assailants, I learned that they had run away,
abandoning the cow, which I placed in a stable.” The poor

 

 




 

 

   
  
 
 
 
   
   
 
    
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    

19

animal had become frightened at the way the men had handled
her, and had refused to go out of the shed, and for that reason
was subjected to the cruel treatment which, fortunately, was
interrupted by the timely presence of the Society’s ofﬁcer.

DOG—FIGHTS AND COC K—FIGHTS.

The persistent warfare carried on against these demoralizing
and cruel so—called “sports” has been attended with gratifying
success. Numerous contemplated dog- and cock-ﬁghts in New
York, Kings, Westchester, and other counties of the State have
been discovered and the promoters dispersed before the brutal
exhibitions had commenced. Still, it is difﬁcult to suppress
them entirely, owing to the secrecy with which they are con-
ducted, as will be seen by the following particulars of a raid
made by the Society’s ofﬁcers into an adjacent county.

“A rafﬂe for a watch for the beneﬁt of a poor widow
will be held on the 28th inst, at Dougherty’s.
Tickets, $1 each.”

It would appear from the tenor of the above that its object
was a most worthy one ; its real purpose, however, was a dog-
ﬁght, for which extensive preparations had been made ; and
while “at Dougherty’s ” was ambiguous to the uninitiated, it
was plain to the Society and to the dog-ﬁghting fraternity.

Just beyond the boundary linedividing Kings from Queens
County is a long, barn—like building, with but few windows, and
those so high up as to prevent inquisitive persons from observ-
ing what is going on inside. The few houses in the vicinity are
occupied by hard-working people, who retire early and have
neither time nor inclination to pry into the affairs of their neigh-
bors, but who were sometimes disturbed at nightfall and even
after midnight by loud cursing and an occasional pistol shot com-
ing from the direction of the building above described and known
as the “Barracks,” but which was in reality “ Dougherty’s.”

The building is about sixty feet long by thirty wide. The
narrow entrances, admitting but one person at a time, are located

at each end of the structure, and two large disguised openings




20

on both sides facilitate escape. Seating accommodation in amphi—
theatre form for a large number of persons is provided.

In the centre of the ﬂoor a sectional dog—pit was erected, which
could be used for cock-ﬁghting, if necessary, and when space
was needed for a prize-ﬁght the pit could be taken away entirely.

It was impossible for a stranger to get near the place unob—
served by a lookout, who was constantly on guard. In addition
to the precautions taken at the place to prevent surprise, the
Society’s Headquarters had been put under surveillance, and
the detectives were followed in order to discover, if possible,
whether any preparations were being made for a raid.

Among the ﬁrst to arrive to take part in the alleged rafﬂe was
one of the Society’s detectives, and soon after the building was
ﬁlled by a crowd of rufﬁans, who soon got drunk at a bar im-
provised for the occasion.

A squad of ofﬁcers had gradually worked their way under
cover of the darkness to within a short-run distance from the
“Barracks” and were waiting the signal to attack. Suddenly
the secret doors of the building opened and the crowd rushed
out and ﬂed in every direction, leaving the place in sole posses—
sion of the ofﬁcers.

It appears that some late comers had stumbled across two of
the Society’s picket guards a short distance from the main road,
and hastened to give alarm.

The dog-pit and other paraphernalia were taken possession of
and the premises turned over to the sheriff of the county.

 

 

l
l2
la

One of the most lonely places after nightfall is that part of
the city between Seventy-second and Seventy-ninth Streets, on
the West Side, between the North River and Riverside Heights.
Trains of the New York Central and Hudson River Railroad
pass continually, thereby adding to the dangerous features of
the locality.

A short distance from the river front is a liquor saloon, fre-
quented by boatmen, brick-handlers, and teamsters. Opposite
the saloon is a two-story shanty used for storing merchandise.
On the night of Saturday, August 5th, men were noticed going
into the shanty referred to, by one of the Society’s detectives

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   

21
who happened to be in the neighborhood. Knowing that the
building was used for storage purposes, his curiosity was aroused,
and approaching closely he discovered that everything had been
removed from the premises and that in the centre of the ﬂoor
was a dog-ﬁghting pit. In a few minutes a man with a bull-
dog went into the liquor saloon. This conﬁrmed the ofﬁcer’s
suspicions that a dog—ﬁght was contemplated, and he at once
notiﬁed Headquarters.

The night was dark. The lonely situation of the house, to-
gether with the noise made by the passing trains, seemed to in—
spire a feeling of safety in those who had accepted the invitation
to witness two dogs tear each other. If the human brutes could
have known that hidden away behind the rocks and hills of
Riverside Park was. a force of ofﬁcers of the law, waiting for the
signal to swoop down upon the shanty, not a single one would
have ventured west of the Boulevard.

Fifty-seven rufﬁans had crowded into the narrow building,
and when the Ofﬁcers burst open the door consternation seized
upon the gang. It was impossible to escape, and the entire lot
was marched to the 'I‘wenty—fourth Precinct station-house in
West Sixty-ﬁfth Street.

As the ﬁght had not commenced when the ofﬁcers entered, a
charge of instigating a dog-ﬁght was made. The prisoners were
warned that if any of them were arraigned again on a similar
charge the full penalty of the law would be imposed.

OVERIJOADING.

There is no cruelty more mercenary than that of overloading,
and notwithstanding remonstrances and prosecution of offenders,
as well as the trouble almost daily occasioned by compelling
drivers to unload in the streets, the imposition still from time to
time goes on, and an animal which declines to move when over—
burdened is termed “balky.” Ignorance on the part of drivers
is the cause of much of the cruelty referred to, as will be seen
by the following incident.

In front of a produce store on Washington Street a driver was
loading a large truck with merchandise, consisting of barrels of




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

22

sugar, ﬂour, cheese, etc. The horse attached to the vehicle was
light of build and about ﬁfteen hands high. One of the Society’s
detectives happened along, and, for curiosity, let the man con—
tinue the loading, in order to see how much he would put on,
which turned out to be every package of the last day’s sales.
The load was enough for two horses to draw.

“Your horse is not able to start such a load as you have
on,” said the ofﬁcer as the driver was gathering up the reins
preparatory to starting. “What do you know about it?” was
the reply, accompanied by an oath. Showing his badge, the
ofﬁcer warned the driver of his danger, and threatened him with
arrest if he attempted to make the horse start. His attitude of
deﬁance soon changed to one of pleading for mercy, and he
expressed himself most anxious to do anything required.

The horse was unhitched and taken to a scales used for
weighing hay. With harness included, the animal weighed only
1,150 pounds, while the truck and load weighed 5,500, and
required a team of horses to haul it away.

“I didn’t know how much the horse could pull,” pleaded the
driver. “ I have only been driving about six weeks.“

Such is one of many similar cases which are met with from
time to time by our ofﬁcers.

SPECIAL AGENTS.

Special agents, resident throughout the State, have been most
active in the humane work. “The knowledge that I have the
power to prevent and prosecute cases of cruelty is sufﬁcient
to deter people inclined to be unmerciful from abusing their
animals,” is the substance of many reports. Pigeon-shoots,
turkey-shoots, likewise fox and other animal hunts, have been
prevented. Horses and cattle found unsheltered have been
cared for, and the work of animal protection has been vigor-
ously prosecuted.

VARIOUS PHASES OF CRUELTY.

In order to convey an idea of the different phases of cruelty
which have been investigated, there might be mentioned the

 

 




 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
   

23

poisoning of two horses out of revenge; also the poisoning of
several chickens belonging to a poor widow; stabbing a horse
with a pitchfork ; clubbing a cow with a bale-stick ; the starving
of cattle, sheep, and horses; abandonment of a broken—legged
horse to die; unjustiﬁable poisoning of seven cats; ﬁfty old
horses rescued from starvation, having been abandoned in sta-
bles and sheds by their owners ; splitting a horse’s ear two inches
by cutting it with a knife; hitching two teams together and
compelling them to pull in opposite directions; pouring kero-
sene oil on a live rat and setting it on ﬁre ; dashing a dog to the
stone pavement and then jumping on the animal; cutting a dog
in the neck with a knife; also cutting off a dog’s tail and ear
with a razor; over two hundred abandoned dogs, rabbits, and
other domestic animals provided with homes; the conﬁscation
of paraphernalia used in trapping and snaring song birds ; also
slings used by vicious boys to shoot pigeons, sparrows, etc.
Many persons have been convicted for carrying poultry in a
cruel and inhuman manner.

BLEEDING CALVES.

This atrocious phase of cruelty has been entirely suppressed
in this city, the last offender having been convicted and ﬁned
one hundred dollars.

Places of amusement, hack-stands, markets, sales-stables,
ferries, race-tracks, menageries, and all places where animals
are employed, have been visited from time to time, and sugges-
tions for the better treatment of animals given by the Society
have been invariably accepted and acted upon. Nothing has
been left undone to prevent abuse and punish cruelty.

In conclusion, the undersigned commends to favorable notice
the uniformed ofﬁcers of the Society, who have been vigilant in
the enforcement of the laws, attentive to their several duties,
and have exercised intelligent judgment in matters pertaining
to the work in which they are engaged.

The Brooklyn department of the work, under the efﬁcient

/




    
     
   
  
   
 
   
  
 
    
     
   
 
   

 

 

 

 

, , w__.;_.-34- ‘SV¢Np»w-7—'J

24

, 23k? I _, , ,..... V. . ,,. .

direction of Inspector Clark, has been most energetic and

commendable.

Summary for the past seven years :

1893.

 

 

 

 

1887 1888 1889 1890 1891 1892 1893
Cases prosecuted in the courts. 797 ggI 949 985 1,071 1:080: 980
Disabled animals temporarily :
suspended from work ....... 3,456 L749 2,357 4,I80 5,725 4,868f3,779
Horses, disabled past recovery, . ‘
lunnanelyrhanroyed“....... 2,546 2,455 2,812 2.284 2,620 3,365 3 384
Small animals, disabled past ‘ .
recovery, humanely destroyed 1,202 1,28I 705 1,347 2,212 3,060 4,794
Disabled horses removed from
streets in the ambulances. .. 522 495 407 520 578 6I8 607
Complaints received and in-
vestigated. .............. 3,773 3,052 2,793 3,609 6,891 7,301 7-599

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Respectfully submitted,
CHARLES H. HANKINSON,

S uperz’m‘ma’mz‘.

 

 

 




Jan. 3.

Jan. 7.

Jan. 7.

 

Jan. 9.

Jan. 9.

 

Jan. 9.

 

 

 

 

 

 

   
   
 
   
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
    

26

l E. Smith, of De Ruyter, was prosecuted for sawing off the

Samue
It is almost impossible to

horns of twenty-seven head of cattle.
describe the agony the poor creatures endured during the cruel opera—
tion. The animals were of mature age, and the only excuse given for
the needless mutilation was that more animals could be crowded into
a smaller space. The defendant was ﬁned ﬁfty dollars by Justice G.

S. Mason.

Areco Jipola, with whip and voice, was endeavoring to make a feeble
horse haul a truck heavily loaded with merchandise. The poor creat-
ure, if in good physical condition, would have been unable to drag the
load, but as described it could not possibly do so. Jipola, however,
declared the “horse must pull the load,” and he was emphasizing that
threat with a free use of the whip when he was arrested by the Society’s
ofﬁcer. The animal was taken to a stable and cared for, while Jipola
spent the night in the station—house, and was subsequently ﬁned ﬁve
dollars by the Court of Special Sessions.

“ I will beat the horse as much as I please,” exclaimed Peter Galligan,
who was unmercifully thrashing the animal on the head and body with
a whip, in reply to a remonstrance from one of the Society’s detec-
tives who happened along at the time. Galligan did not strike another
blow, however, for before he realized his position he was under arrest,
the horse released from harness and taken to its stable.

Galligan regretted the cruelty when arraigned at the court of Special
Sessions, but was ﬁned ﬁve dollars.
Herman H. Doloway, of Middletown, abandoned, to die on the road-
side, a poor old horse which had fallen on the ice and broken its leg.
The Society’s local ofﬁcer heard of the case, and immediately went to
the spot and ended the sufferings of the animal, and then arrested Dolo—

way, who wasﬁned thirty dollars.

Edward Coffy, a driver employed by the Fourth Avenue Railroad
Company, while on his way to Harlem commenced to whip and over-
drive his team. Several ladies in the car remonstrated with him for his
cruelty, to which he retorted with insolence and abuse. When at the
corner of Sixty—fourth Street and Madison Avenue one of the ladies
stopped the car and called a policeman to arrest the driver.

Coffy persisted in his abuse and was locked up. He was subse-

quently convicted by the Court of Special Sessions and ﬁned ten
dollars.
“ The horse is lazy and won’t pull,” said John O’Conner, when asked
why he beat his horse on the body with the handle of a pick. Now,
as a matter of fact, the horse was in good physical condition, but
overloaded. O’Conner was about to strike the animal again when
arrested. Fined ﬁve dollars by the Court of Special Sessions.

 

 




 

 

    

Jan. 10.

Jan.

Jan.

Jan.

 

. I7.

19.

I 20.

OH
~/

One of the Society's honorary agents, driving through the town of
Genesee Falls, was told that Henry Bigalow. of that place, was neg-
lecting to provide a sufﬁcient quantity of food and drink and shelter
for his cattle.
and found sufﬁcient evidence to warrant the arrest of Bigalow, who
was convicted of the offence before Justice L. H. Clark and ﬁned
ﬁfteen dollars.

The ofﬁcer spent some time in investigating the case,

For refusing for several days to provide his horse with necessary food
and drink, H. B. Bartels was convicted and ﬁned twenty-ﬁve dollars
by Judge Peterson.

Joseph Paine was charged with stabbing a horse with a pitchfork.
While the animal showed every evidence of having been stabbed, there
was no proof that the defendant had committed the offence. The case
was thoroughly investigated, but as no corroborative evidence could be
secured, the defendant was discharged by Judge Burke, of the Fifth

District Court.

For depriving his horse of food and drink, Edward Ackboy, of Caze-
novia, Madison Co., was sentenced by Justice Benjamin to imprison-
ment in the county jail for ten days.

For cruelly beating his horse over the body with a whip, Herman
Nathason was arrested on the corner of Clinton and Delancey Streets.
The animal, like many of its kind which have been subjected to cruel
treatment by stablemen and others, got frightened when any one
approached its head; for this, Nathason beat it. He was ﬁned ﬁve

dollars by the Court of Special Sessions.

John Scarry was also arrested for beating his horse on the head and
body with a whip. He had no excuse to offer—~rather unusual in such
cases. The horse appeared to be quite willing to do its work, but
Scarry thought best to give it a thrashing.

Fined ﬁve dollars by the Court of Special Sessions.

Frank Cavins was the owner of a horse and express business. The
horse itself was of little value, but that did not prevent its owner
from hiring one Jacob Eikert to drive and overload the animal. Eikert
was found one night with the horse, which at the time was suffering
from sores on the breast unprotected from the harness, and otherwise
unﬁt for labor.

The horse was sent to the nearest hospital, and Eikert taken to
He informed the magistrate that Cavins was the owner, and
A warrant was

court.
compelled him, Eikert, to drive the disabled animal.
issued for the arrest of the owner, and upon the trial of both defendants,
Cavins was ﬁned ten dollars and the driver one dollar by the Court of
Special Sessions.

 




     
  
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
    
  

28

“ I will do what I please,” said Louis Friere, to the Society’s ofﬁcer
who warned him against beating a team of horses attached to a loaded
truck, at the same time striking the horses another ﬁerce blow before
the ofﬁcer could interfere. Friere was arrested, and subsequently ﬁned

ﬁve dollars by the Court of Special Sessions.

Jan. 21.

Jan. 22. Martin McHugh, a typical tough, was prosecuted for setting a bull-
dog to bite and worry a goat. The dog seized. the latter about the
head and tore it in a cruel manner. McHugh, laughing and urging on
the dog, was arrested and ﬁned ﬁve dollars by the Court of Special

Sessions.

Jan. 23. Dennis Carmody was arrested on Seventieth Street, between First and
Second Avenues, for cruelly beating his horse with the butt end of a
whip. It was impossible for the animal to draw the load, and for that
reason the horse was subjected to the abuse mentioned. Fined ﬁve
dollars by the Court of Special Sessions.

Ian. 24. Rafaele Rege and Joseph Uaﬁno were joint owners of a miserable
lame and sore horse, which was compelled to drag a loaded wagon.

Both owners were ﬁned ﬁve dollars by Judge Walsh.
The animal was a sorry specimen of its kind, and evoked con

able sympathy from bystanders.

sider—

Jan. 26. Stephen Mearns was arrested by the Society’s ofﬁcer at Broadway
and Twenty-third Street, for driving a horse attached to a loaded
wagon while suffering from sores on the breast. The sore on the nigh
side measured three by two inches, and that on the off side two inches

 

by one inch.

Mearns was on his way to Jersey City to deliver a heavy load of
furniture, and but for the timelyinterference of the ofﬁcer the horse
would have been compelled to drag the load with the collar pressing
into the wounds. The horse was sent to the hospital to have the sores
dressed, and Mearns was locked up and subsequently ﬁned ﬁve dollars
by the Court of Special Sessions.

 

Jan. 26. Charles McEwen was arrested in the Bowery just as he was about to
start for a day’s work with a miserable specimen-of a horse. It was
lame, and could only remain on its feet by continued effort. The
horse was taken to the stable in the Society's ambulance and given a
good feed. McEwen was locked up, and subsequently arraigned in
the Court of Special Sessions and ﬁned ﬁve dollars.

Jan. 27. One of the Society’s detectives was in the neighborhood of 103d
Street and Columbus Avenue, and hearing the swishing of the lash of
a whip proceeded to investigate the cause. He found one Martin
Amrein using a heavy whip to induce a team of horses to make an

 

 

 




 

     
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 

Jan. 27.

Jan. 28.

Jan. 31.

Jan. 31.

Feb. 2.

Feb. 2.

 

39

effort to pull a heavily loaded wagon. The horses were covered with
large welts from the terrible heating to which they had been subjected.
Amrein was ﬁned ﬁve dollars by the Court of Special Sessions.

“At Thirty-fourth Street and Sixth Avenue, Paul Koons is again
working a poor old horse,” was the report brought to Headquarters by
a friend of the Society. An ofﬁcer was sent to the locality, but could
ﬁnd no trace of the offender. Anticipating that he would make his
way to the ash dump, the ofﬁcer went there and waited for his arrival.
Koons arrived there with his horse in a wretched condition, and was ad-
ministering a heavy chastisement with the whip. Koons was arrested,
and subsequently ﬁned ﬁve dollars by the Court of Special Sessions.

Carmine Discenza, of Canastota, abandoned to starve a lot of dogs
for which he had no further use. The Society’s local agent was
informed of the fact and arrested Disccnza, who was ﬁned ﬁve dollars
by Judge Briggs.

Jacobi Berkowitz, a butcher, had just ﬁnished a delivery and returned
to his store, at Canal Street and the Bowery, when an ofﬁcer of the
Society passed. The horse was lame, weak, sore, and thoroughly
exhausted from being overdriven in the condition described. ierko-
witz was arrested, and subsequently ﬁned ten dollars for his cruelty by
the Court of Special Sessions.

William Boyle considered the girth strap rubbing against a bleeding
sore on his horse a matter of small importance until an ofﬁcer met and
arrested him for violation of the humane statutes of the State. He
was ﬁned ﬁve dollars by the Court of Special Sessions.

In January, Peter England, Thomas O’Brien, and Michael Brown

were charged by the Society’s agent at Cohoes with engaging in a dog:

ﬁght. They pleaded guilty to the charge, and Judge Grogan ﬁned
them ﬁfteen dollars each ; but, tempering justice with mercy, the judge
remitted the ﬁne of Peter England, who had a sick wife and large
family, and was in very poor circumstances.

Israel Renner, not content with working a very lame horse, added to
its torture by a free use of the whip toinduce the animal to do its work.
Renner was arrested and ﬁned ﬁve dollars by the Court of Special

Sessions.

Chris. Nollmer was arrested for selling a horse suffering from the
disease known as glanders. That prompt and effective measures are
necessary to prevent the sale of horses suffering from this loathsome
disease is shown by the fact that the legislature has provided punish—
ment for any person selling or offering to sell or exposing an animal

suffering from this disease. Nollmer proved to the satisfaction of the

 




 

 

 

     
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
  
 
 

Feb. 3.

Feb. 3.

Feb. 6.

Feb. 6.

Feb. 7.

Feb. 9.

 

 

 

Feb. 15.

Feb. 16.

Feb. 2r.

Feb. 24.

Feb. 25.

3O

justice that he was ignorant of the condition of the animal, and that
it had been sold to him by one Jacob Hank, who was arrested,
arraigned before Justice Walsh, and ﬁned $300.

It is a temptation to unscrupulous persons to endeavor to sell horses
suffering from glanders, but the Society is ever on the alert to pre-
vent the disposal of animals which are a menace to human as well as

animal life.

Michael Shague was arrested for driving a horse with a sore, three
inches by two, on the right shoulder, and ﬁned ten dollars by the Court

of Special Session 5.

Philip Junker was arrested at Forty—ﬁfth Street and First Avenue for
driving a horse in a lame condition, and was ﬁned ﬁve dollars by
the Court of Special Sessions.

Being in an ugly mood, Thomas Kelly sought relief for his feelings
by throwing a lump of ice at his unoffending horse. He was observed
by one of the Society’s ofﬁcers, who arrested him. Kelly was ﬁned
ﬁve dollars by the Court of Special Sessions.

For working horse having sore, four inches by three, on one side of
its back, Samuel Pratt was ﬁned ﬁve dollars by the Court of Special
Sessions.

“\Vorking a horse with a large sore on top of the neck under the
collar, both forefeet bleeding at fetlocks, while attached to ash—cart,”
was the charge preferred against Peter Link. He pleaded guilty to the
Charge, and was ﬁned ﬁve dollars by the Court of Special Sessions.

William Ward was arrested in West Twelfth Street for driving a horse
with two sores on the breast, and two on the back under the harness.
Fined ﬁve dollars by the Court of Special Sessions.

The Society’s ofﬁcer on duty at the stockyards in the early morning
saw a cow being kicked in the stomach and beaten on the head with a
stick by one John ‘Wuyzinski, who was arrested and ﬁned ﬁve dollars
by the Court of Special Sessions.

George Harris, for driving a horse to a truck while suffering from a
ﬁstula on the withers, unprotected from the harness, was ﬁned ﬁve
dollars by the Court of Special Sessions.

For cutting in the mouth a horse, at the time sick and suffering from
loss of blood, Robert Burns was ﬁned ten dollars by Judge Walsh.

Charles Austen, of Brooklyn, abandoned a sick horse to die on an
unfrequented road. Fined three dollars by Judge Walsh.

For depriving his cattle of food and water, Harley Clock, of Canastota,
Madison County, was ﬁned ﬁfteen dollars by Judge George B. Russell.

 

 

 

 




 

 

    

31

Feb. 27. The opportune arrival of one of the Society’s ofﬁcers at the corner of
Greene and Bleecker Streets prevented one David Gaubier from con-
tinuing the abuse of a team of horses which were in a deplorable
condition. The animals were taken to a stable and cared for, while
Gaubier went to the station-house for the night. He was charged with
cruelty, and ﬁned ﬁve dollars by the Court of Special Sessions.

March I. For driving a team of horses while lame, sore, and exhausted,
William L. Dyer was ﬁned ﬁve dollars by the Court of Special Ses-
sions.

March 2. Morris Middleton, of Stockport, was charged by the Society’s local
agent with leaving a horse out in the open without covering or food.
for over six hours. The weather was very cold, and, when found, the
animal was nearly dead. Middleton was sentenced to imprisonment
for ten days.

March 3. Timothy Foley saw a horse on the Bowery suffering from staggers,
and thought the proper treatment was the splitting of the animal’s ear,
which he proceeded to do, in spite of the remonstrance of the driver.
Foley made a cut about two inches long. A citizen caused his arrest,
and later on he was ﬁned ﬁve dollars by the Court of Special Sessions.

March 3. “ Charles Fisher went on, a drunk several days ago,” said his neigh—
bor ; consequently his horse was neglected.

The Society’s ofﬁcer found the horse in a deplorable condition. It
had eaten all the woodwork within reach and was dying for food and
drink.

Food was given it by the ofﬁcer, but the poor creature was too weak
to eat or drink. Its sufferings were at once ended. Fisher, upon
being arrested, took the matter quite coolly, and seemed to think the
starving of a horse did not amount to much when he was ﬁned only
ten dollars by the Court of Special Sessions.

March 6. For beating his horse on the head with a barrel stave, Jacob Beer
was ﬁned ﬁve dollars by the Court of Special Sessions.

March 6. George West, driver of a Fifth Avenue stage, was arrested for com-
pelling a team of horses, that were at the time weak and lame, to drag
a heavy stage loaded with passengers. The streets were slippery and
the horses smooth-shod, making it almost impossible for them to keep
their feet. From the Washington Arch to Forty-seventh Street the
weary animals were obliged to work their way under the inﬂuence of
the whip, which was unsparingly applied to their feeble bodies. At
Forty-seventh Street the animals gave out entirely, but West was
determined to get to the stable at Eighty—ninth Street and Madison
Avenue, and to that end plied the whip more vigorously. A kind-
hearted citizen remonstrated. Ilis protest was unheeded, so he called
a police ofﬁcer, had the driver arrested, and notiﬁed the Society. On

 




  

 

 

 

32

being arraigned, West told the magistrate he was obliged to drive the
team. The Society made every effort to get the necessary evidence
to warrant the prosecution of the chief ofﬁcers of the stage company,
and though a summons was issued for the appearance at court of the
manager of the stable, the justice decided .he was not responsible.
Other steps were taken to prove a case against the corporation, but
all failed, owing to the unwillingness of Witnesses to appear and testify.
West, when tried before the Court of Special Sessions, was defended
by the company’s attorney, but was convicted and ﬁned twenty~ﬁve
dollars.

March 8. For overdriving a decrepit horse Joseph McMahon was arr
Ninety-third Street and Third Avenue, and ﬁned ten dollars by the
Court of Special Sessions.

March 9. For diabolical cruelty to animals the following takes precedence :

One of the Society’s ofﬁcers, while passing through Mulberry

Street, saw what appeared to be a ball of ﬁre thrown from a window
of No. 71. On examination he found the phenomenon to be a live rat
slowly burning to death. The ofﬁcer went into the house, and found

one Dominick Fialcania, who admitted that he had poured kerosene
The human brute was ﬁned

ested ~ at

oil over the animal, and then set it on ﬁre.
ﬁve dollars by the Court of Special Sessions, a punishment which did
not ﬁt the crime.

March IO. For compelling a horse to work while in a weak and feebl
dition and suffering from an abscess on side of mouth, Stephen Lippin—
cott was ﬁned ten dollars by Judge Walsh.

March I4. Because his horse was physically incapable of drawin
load, John Carroll beat the animal with a piece of thick board,
for which he was ﬁned ﬁve dollars by the Court of Special Sessions.

March I4. Arthur Hamilton, of Haverstraw, was charged with neglecting to
feed his horse, and working the animal when not ﬁt for labor. llam-
ilton was convicted and sentenced to ﬁfty days’ imprisonment in the

e COD-

g a heavy

county jail.

March 16. Abraham Schrem, for carrying six geese in a cruel manne
by their legs, their wings twisted and heads hanging down—was ﬁned
ﬁve dollars by the Court of Special Sessions.

March 17. For turning his horse out on the roadside for four days and nig
without food or drink, Sexties Eberhardt was ﬁned ﬁfteen dollars.
The animal when found was in a deplorable condition and beyond
recovery. Its suffering was mercifully ended.

March 18. For driving a horse suffering from quittor, John Durande was
prosecuted and ﬁned ﬁve dollars. The animal could hardly put the
sore foot to the ground, and had to be taken to the hospital in an

r—-viz. :

hts

ambulance.

 

 

  

 




    

 

 

 

34

April 18. While patrolling in the neighborhood of Pike and Division Streets,
one of the Society’s ofﬁcers found, attached to a peddler’s wagon, a
horse with the hoofs of both hind feet falling off. The animal was
in an emaciated condition. The owner, Samuel E. Rebutt, was
arrested, and ﬁned ﬁve dollars by the Court of Special Sessions, and
the horse humanely destroyed.

April 18. For striking his horse six blows with an iron shovel, William Harra
was ﬁned ﬁve dollars by the Court of Special Sessions.

April 18. “ Seizing a dog by the tail and dashing its body against the side-
walk, breaking both hind legs.” was the charge against James Mallon,
and for which he was sentenced by the Court of Special Sessions to
three months in the penitentiary. '

April 20. Moses Seigel was found at Sheriff and East Houston Streets carrying
a small basket into which he had crowded ten large fowls with their
legs tied. Two of them were dead from suffocation.

Seigel was ﬁned ﬁve dollars by the Court of Special Sessions.

April 24. For permitting the working of a team of horses that were suffering
from dreadful sores on their bodies, unprotected from the harness,
Albert E. Donovan was ﬁned ﬁve dollars by Judge Haggerty.

April 27. John E. Campbell, of Cazenovia, Madison County, for cruelly
beating his horse because the poor creature was too lame to walk,
was ﬁned ten dollars by Justice George Benjamin.

May I. Charles Andrews owned a horse suffering from Spinal disease. He
got tired of having the animal in the stable, so determined to get rid
of it and at the same time realize ﬁnancially. To that end he tied the
horse behind a light wagon and started for the horse market. For-
tunately for the animal, one of the Society’s ofﬁcers was near by and
advised Andrews to have the horse shot. This he refused to do, and
dragged the crippled animal behind the wagon. He was arrested and
ﬁned ten dollars by Judge Peterson, and the horse was mercifully de-
stroyed.

May 1. Fred Gallagher, for beating his horse over the eye with the butt end of
a whip, was ﬁned ﬁve dollars by the Court of Special Sessions.

May 2. Thomas Carrol, while passing through the Bowery, noticed a van con-
taining several cases of liquor apparently unguarded. He attempted
to steal one, but before he could get it off the wagon a guardian in the
shape of a small dog appeared from the front of the vehicle and
frustrated his intentions. Enraged at being deprived of his booty,
Carrol rushed into a store, picked up a large cheese—knife, and return-
ing to the wagon, where the little defender was still on guard, he cut
the poor creature on the neck in a frightful manner. The cowardly
act was seen by a detective attached to Police Headquarters, who

 

  

 




 

  

May 4.

May 5.

May to.

35

seized the human brute just as he was about delivering another blow.
Carrol was convicted by the Court of Special Sessions, and sentenced
to three months in the penitentiary.

At a raid on the stock farm of John Redfern, of Flatlands, L. 1.,
Joseph Renner and Joseph liudinsky were arrested and arraigned
before Justice Matthews on a charge of feeding animals unwholesome
food. Renner was ﬁned ten dollars, but the proprietor, John Red-
fern, could not be found at the time. Warrants on four separate
charges were issued, and he was subsequently arrested and put under
bail to appear for trial. On May Igth he was arraigned before Justice
Matthews, pleaded not guilty, and demanded a trial by jury. Averdict
of “ not guilty i’ was rendered, notwithstanding the fact that a sample
of the vile stuff was submitted in evidence. The jury seemed ﬁrm in
their determination to ﬁnd no case against Redfern, and it was reluc-
tantly decided to abandon the prosecution of the other charges.

Some idea of the revolting character of the place where the cattle
were being fattened for human food can be gleaned from the follow-
ing : “ On arrival at the sheds the ofﬁcers had to wade ankle deep
through ﬁlth to the building where the swill was boiled. The stench
was overpowering. The animals had been conﬁned for weeks and fed
solely on the refuse of hotel kitchens and boarding-houses. It was.
no easy matter to give them relief, for the reason that no corn or hay
was found on the premises; nothing but the swill described above,
served through troughs running the full length of the sheds in front of
the animals. Many of the beasts were too weak to stand, and many
were suffering from tuberculosis. No bedding was furnished, and the
animals were obliged to lie on the wet boards.”

Frank Kerns was arrested at Twelfth and \Vest Streets for driving a
decrepit horse with sores on back and breast unprotected from the
harness. Fined ﬁve dollars by the Court of Special Sessions.

Thomas McCormick, of East New York, seized a dog by the hind legs.
and dashed its body several times against the pavement. Justice
Sweeney, of I’latbush, sentenced McCormick to twenty—ﬁve dollars ﬁne
or two months in the penitentiary.

Peter McKenna. James McBreen, Daniel Monohan, and John Mono-
han, of New Brighton, S. 1., stabbed a dog with a pitchfork, tore its
mouth with a rake, and then shot it. McKenna was sentenced by
Judge Langton to ﬁfty-nine days in jail, and the three other defend-
ants were ﬁned ten dollars each.

For breaking a cat’s back with a stick, John Valders was ﬁned ﬁve
dollars by Judge Peterson.

 

    
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
  
 

 

 

  




 

 

May 12.

May 12.

36

David Opperheim was arrested for twisting the wings and tying the
legs of several fowls, and ﬁned ﬁve dollars by the Court of Special
Sessions.

John Burcel, of Clifton, S. I., for leaving his horse tied to a post
sixteen hours without food or drink, was ﬁned ten dollars by Judge
Acker.

The Society’s local agent at Gloversville having received information
that William Masten had neglected to feed and water his stock for
several days, investigated the case and found sufﬁcient evidence to
warrant the arrest of Masten, who was sentenced by Justice Smith to
pay twenty-ﬁve dollars ﬁne, or in default of payment to be imprisoned
twenty-ﬁve days.

For setting on a bull-dog to bite a goat, Morris Hartigan, of Flat-
bush, was ﬁned three dollars by Judge Sweeney.

For cutting off the tail and right ear of a dog, John Gratton was
sentenced to six months in the penitentiary by Judge Connolly, of
Second District Court, Brooklyn.

Michael VVelch and Edward Nolan, of Goshen, for overdriving and
beating a horse, were ﬁned seven dollars and ﬁfty cents each by Judge
W. H. Wyker.

\Villiam A. Stuckey, for driving a horse while lame, weak, exhausted.
and unﬁt for use, was ﬁned one dollar by the Court of Special Sessions,

and the suffering animal mercifully destroyed.

For beating a team of horses on heads and bodies until he drew
blood, Charles Legget was ﬁned ﬁve dollars by the Court of Special

Sessions.

Charles F. Jackson, of Burnt Hills, Saratoga County, for beating
and kicking his horse, was ﬁned thirty-ﬁve dollars by Judge Anson J.
Larkin.

George Fitzpatrick, of Auburn, for brutally beating a cow, was ﬁned
ﬁfteen dollars by Justice Newgass.

Henry Brabender, of Hudson, for keeping a place for ﬁghting cocks,
was ﬁned seventy—ﬁve dollars by Judge Cady.

Forest Ross, of Bolton, for cruelly beating his horse, was ﬁned ﬁve

dollars by Judge S. M. Pratt.

Thomas McLaughlin, for driving a horse having the disease known
as “farcy,” was ﬁned ﬁve dollars by the Court of Special Sessions.
The animal was destroyed.

Jim Lee, for carrying poultry by wings and legs, with beads hang-
ing down, was ﬁned ten dollars by the Court of Special Sessions.

 




  

July I.

July t).

July It.

July I4.
July
July

July

July

20.

July

July 2o.

July 29

July 29.

Aug. 3.

 

qt-v
3/

ll. C Schott, of \Voodside, for twisting the wings of geese and break-
ing their backs, to spite the owner, was lined ten dollars by Justice
Montcvet‘dc.
For cruelly beating and overdriving his horse, Thomas Fitzgerald, of
(ialway, Saratoga County, was lined live dollars by Judge James A.
llurham.

For kickingr his horse violently in the stomach, Edwin R. Garnier was
lined live dollars by the Hunt of Special Sessions.
Harris llerz, for carrying in a bag in a cruel manner seven live
chickens, was lined ten dollars by the t'ourt of Special Sessions.

John Dugan, of l’eekskill. overtlrove his horse until it fell from ex-
haustion, for which Judge liaxter lined him twenty dollars.

l’or scalding two dogs, Robert Bloxain, of Northport, was ﬁned ten
dollars by Justice Strawson.

I’or unjustiliably shooting a dog. Alexander \Vills, of Elm Park, S. I.,
was lined ten dollars by Justice Jacobs.

Herman (Tohn. for beating a decrepit horse with butt end of a Whip-
handle, because the animal could not haul a heavily loaded wagon, was
sentenced by Judge \Vatson to pay a line of twenty-five dollars, or, in
default, be imprisoned ten days.

Thomas J. Flynn. for cruelly beating his horse, lacerating the ﬂesh in
a number of places, because the animal could not pull a load of over
four thousand pounds, was lined ten dollars by the Court of Special
Sessions.

For torturing a cat, Charles Conners, of Glen Cove, was ﬁned ten
dollars by Judge Crandall.

Adolf \Volffe, of Staple-ton, owned a horse which for many years per-
formed the work allotted to it. When by reason of ailments incidental
to old age the faithful creature became unlit for heavy labor, its unfeel-
\Vhen found by the Society’s Ofﬁcer it

was nearly dead from starvation and exposure.

ing owner turned it out to die.
\Volffe was prosecuted,
convicted, and lined ten dollars by Judge Acker, and the suffering
animal humanely destroyed.

Charles l’hilbrick, of Collins, Erie (Tounty, for striking a horse several
blows on head and body with a club two inches thick, was ﬁned twenty-
ﬁve dollars by Judge J. C. \Yilbur.

Montgomery County, shot and
Indifferent to the

Herman \Vard, of l’rey’s Bush,
wounded a pug dog belonging to a neighbor.
sufferings of the animal, Ward left it in a dying condition seventy-
eight hours, before it was put out of misery. Ward was ﬁned ﬁfteen

dollars by Judge Moyer.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
   
 
 
  
   
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 

 

 

 

 

  

38

Aug. 5. Mead Ellsworth, of Caldwell, Warren County, for fastening the
heads of two oxen to their feet in such a position as to interfere With
natural action, was ﬁned three dollars and costs by Judge E. W. Hunt.

Aug. 6. Albert Brown, for throwing a brick at a goat, breaking its leg, was
sent to jail for twenty—nine days by Justice Sutherland.

Aug. II. Albert Schwartz, for beating with a whip a lame and sore horse.
was ﬁned ﬁve dollars by the Court of Special Sessions.

Aug. I2. Edward Ward, of Long Island City, for beating his horse with :1
plank, kicking it on fore legs until it fell. and otherwise abusing the
animal, was ﬁned one dollar by Judge Kavanaugh.

Aug. I3. William Hinckman engaged one of the ponies at South Beach, S. I. .
for a ride. The poor animal had been ridden hard all day, and because
it could not gallop fast enough to please the rider he belabored it on
the head with a heavy cane, for which he was ﬁned ﬁve dollars by
Judge Coleman.

Aug. I4. Daniel Burns, of Far Rockaway, for assaulting the Society’s local
ofﬁcer while engaged in the discharge of duty, was sentenced by Judge
Smith to imprisonment for six months in the county jail.

Aug. I4. Max Cooper, Ike Fineburg, and Joseph Peel formed a partnership
to carry on the express and trucking business. Cooper and Fineburg
furnished horses and vehicles, and Peel contributed his experience and
labor. Trade becoming dull, the two ﬁrst named partners concluded
they could get along Without Peel, and so notiﬁed him. Peel resented
this summary separation of interests, and in the presence of witnesses
threatened “to get square,” and even went so far as to tell Cooper
and Fineburg that “they would have no horses by the following
Saturday.” This signiﬁcant threat proved true, for on the morning of
the day mentioned the two horses were found dead in their stalls.
One of the Society's most expert detectives was detailed to investigate
the case. A post mortem was ﬁrst held on the body of one of the
animals, which resulted in ﬁnding enough arsenic in the stomach to kill
a dozen horses. Now, while there was no direct proof that Peel had

poisoned the animals, there was sufﬁcient to warrant his being arrested
for larceny of a set of harness which disappeared at the time the horses
were killed.

During the progress of the investigation, the detective found a
woman who heard Peel declare he was “ going to poison the horses,”
and he was seen by another witness to enter the stable on the night of
the poisoning and give the horses :1 drink from a pail, which he care-
fully washed out afterwards.

Peel was held for trial under one thousand. dollars bail. He was
subsequently tried before Judge Martine and jury, convicted, and
sentenced to imprisonment in the penitentiary for one year.

 
   
  

  

 




 

Aug.

Aug.

Sept.

Sept.

Sept.

Sept.

Sept.

Sept.

Oct.

39

15. John McDonald, for kicking his horse four times in the stomach,
was ﬁned ﬁve dollars by the Court of Special Sessions.

29. For leaving his horse to starve in a vacant lot at Lawrence, L. I.,
John McQueeney was ﬁned ten dollars by Judge Smith.

. 31. Salvini Salvatore, for kicking his horse four times in the stomach.

was ﬁned ten dollars by the Court of Special Sessions.

6. Samuel Fines, for cruelly beating his horse, was ﬁned ﬁfteen dollars
by Justice Monteverde, of Newtown, L. I.

6. Jacob Werlich, of Brooklyn, unjustiﬁably shot a dog belonging to a
neighbor, and for the offence was ﬁned twenty—ﬁve dollars by Justice
Monteverde.

6. William Corse, of Cedarhurst, L. 1., for unjustiﬁably shooting a
neighbor’s dog, was ﬁned ﬁve dollars by Judge G. W. Smith.

25. John Lewis, for beating a horse on the head with butt end of a
whip, injuring the animal’s right eye, was ﬁned ﬁve dollars by the
Court of Special Sessions.

28. Edgar Taxter, of Yonkers, for instigating a ﬁght between two dogs,
was ﬁned ﬁve dollars by Judge F. H. Donoghue.

29. Joseph Azzoni and John Herbert, charged with carrying chickens in
a cruel manner, were ﬁned ﬁve dollars each by the Court of Special
Sessions.

4. Sarah J. Edwards was arrested by Police Ofﬁcer Connolly on West ‘
I36th Street for having unjustiﬁably killed a beautiful healthy cat.
For some time previous to the arrest President Haines had been receiv-
ing almost daily complaints from persons whose pet cats had mysteri-
ously disappeared, and the presence on the public thoroughfares of
heaps of dead cats, apparently having been poisoned, was of frequent
occurrence. The ofﬁcers of the Society were instructed to do all in
their power to discover the alleged poisoner, when the mystery was
solved by the arrest of the woman above mentioned. When arrested
she had a large basket containing bodies of several cats, to which num-
ber she added her latest victim. On being brought before a justice
she stated that she was a member of a society composed of a few
women calling themselves the “Midnight Band of Mercy,” who went
about the streets at night coaxing cats with catnip and other seductive
means, and when within reach the animals were seized and killed.
The implements of the “Band” consisted of a large basket and a
bottle of chloroform. Mrs. Edwards was arraigned before the Court
of Special Sessions and defended by an able lawyer. The evidence
against her was conclusive, and she was found guilty and ﬁned ten
dollars. The mania for killing was not conﬁned to cats alone, but
horses, dogs, and poultry have been ruthlessly put to death by some

 

 




  

 

 

4o

mysterious agency. The Society offers a reward of one hundred
dollars for information that will lead to the arrest and conviction of

the guilty person or persons.

Frank A. Gater, for ﬁring several pistol shots into the body of a neigh—
bor’s dog and leaving it for dead, was ﬁned ten dollars by Judge

Cowenhoven.

John Soaper, of Islip, L. I., was prosecuted by the Society’s local
agent at Brentwood for overloading and cruelly beating a team of
lame, sore, weak, and feeble horses. Soaper prodded the animals with
a stick of wood having a sharp iron spike on the end. He admitted
the cruelty, and with much glee declared, when tried, “ it helped them
powerful.” Nevertheless the jury brought in a verdict of not guilty.

George Jasberger, of Brooklyn, for setting a dog on a cat, was ﬁned
ﬁfteen dollars by JudgevR. E. Connolly.

For abandoning a sick horse to die in a vacant lot at New Utrecht,
Francisco Presciolo was ﬁned ten dollars by Judge Cowenhoven.

For driving and cruelly beating a horse, suffering at the time from
sores on back and breast, unprotected from the harness, William Thomp-
kins was sentenced by Judge George B. Russell to sixty days’ im—
prisonment.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

     
 
  
    
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
   
  
 
   

42

MANUAL OF

KINDNESS TO ANIMALS.

For use in Schools, Sunday-schools and
Families;

_.—————_...___,._._<.__ _ _ _._..___.._

“ ls well calculated to engage the child’s attention, and teach
it to be humane to all living creatures.”——2Vew Yer/e Triézzrze.

“ It aims to teach the utility of animals as an argument against
their torture, and the preface suggests that individuals are cruel

‘ through want of thought, rather than want of heart.’ ”
——Neze/ Yer/e Herald.

“ Admirably constructed to impress on the youthful mind kind
treatment to all the brute creation.”——S]>iriz‘ of Me Times.
“ Perusal of its pages warrants us in'predicting for it a most
useful career.”—— T/ze [Eider and Driver. ‘

“It is a useful and suggestive book for children, and it con-
tains some instruction which a large number of adults are much
in need of.”—-Ne7w York [Var/(Z.

“The little manual should ﬁnd lodging in the living-room of
all families where there are young children, or where horses,
cats, dogs, rabbits, birds, cows, poultry, gold-ﬁsh or other
animals are kept for use or amusement.”—P/zi/aa’e/p/zia Ledger.

 

Sample copies, four cents each.

Published at Headquarters of the Society, IO East
22d Street, New York.

 

 




 

 

 

DRINKING FOUNTAINS FOR
BEAST.

MA N

 

AND

There is great need fo.‘ additional drinking fountains for man

and beast.

The Society has already erected many and is increas-
ing the number as fast as its funds Will allow.

A most appro-

priate donation could be made by friends of animals, by the
erection of fountains under the direction of the Society, and

bearing the names of the donors.

The cost of erecting a foun-

tain similar to that represented in the above illustration, includ-
ing plate with name of donor, is, in the city of New York or

Brooklyn, about three hundred dollars.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

. /

        

 

 
  

-.,-.
4w,“
‘ . W. t
"‘Mh’ﬁ;

._ ﬂ

   

 

» A
rm») ~ .
_.’,

‘~“"‘u -‘-'
«‘2‘ ‘5‘?!“

M

  
 
 

THE MARIE GUISE NEWCOMB FOUNTAIN.

  

 
   

 




  

SOCIETIES OF NORTH AND SOUTH
AMERICA.

ORGANIZED SINCE THE FORMATION OF THE AMERICAN SOCIETY FOR.
THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS—THE PARENT
SOCIETY OF AMERICA.

NEW YORK.

“THE AMERICAN SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF
CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.”

[morpomz‘ea’ 2'72 1 866.
HEADQ UARTERS, 10 East 22d Street, NE W YORK.
JOHN P. HAINES. President. IGEO. G. DEWITT, Secretary.

BROOKLYN OFFICE.

I 3 W zl/ozeg/zby Sz‘reet.
F. O. CLARK, Inspector.

 

ALABAMA.
Mobile Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
22 3 Dazzp/zz'n Street, Mobile.

RUFUS DANE, President. | E. R. QUATTLEBAUM, Secretary.
Birmingham Humane Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Children and Animals.

413 Eng/zz‘eent/z Street, Bz‘rwzzﬂgﬂzam.

REV. SAMUEL ULLMAN, Pres. | DR. F. J. TYLER, Secretary.

 

ARKANSAS.
Arkansas Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Lift/e [Bee/e.

O. S. DILLON, President. | REES P. HORROCKS. Secretary.

   

 

 

 

 

  




 

 

    

 
  
 
 
 

    

44

CALIFORNIA.
The San Francisco Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
I I70 Market Street, San Francisco.
JACOB Z. DAVIS, President. I C. B. HOLBROOK, Secretary.
Santa Clara County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
45 Nort/z First Street, San fore.
F. R. SHAFTER, President. I C. C. LELAND, Secretary.
San Diego Humane Society.
915 Foart/z Street, San Diego.
ARTHUR G. NASON, President. I GEO. N. HITCHCOCK, Secretary.
Los Angeles County Humane Society.
24 Potomac Block, Los Angeles.
HENRY T. LEE, President. I DOROTHEA LUMMIS, Secretary.

The Sacramento County Humane Society.
402 “ f” Street, Sacramento.

R. C. IRVINE, President. I W. D. LAWTON, Secretary.
The Alameda County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
' Animals.

1465 San Paolo Avenue, Oakland.
MRS. E. ALSHERMAN, President. I MRS. S. C. SANFORD, Secretary.

 

COLORADO.
Colorado Humane Society.
1646 Arapanoe Street, Denver.
WALTER S. CHEESMAN, Pres. I G. H. THOMSON, Secretary.
El Paso County Branch of the Colorado Humane Society.

C o/orado S ﬁrings.

E. A. COLBURN, President. IF. B. HILL, Secretary.
CONNECTICUT.
Connecticut Humane Society.
Hartford.
RODNEY DENNIS, President. I CHANDLER E. MILLER, Sec’y.

The New Haven Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

[Vow Ewen.
ELI WHITNEY, President. I EDWIN A. SMITH, Secretary.

 

 




 

 

 

    

45

DELAWARE.
Delaware Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
606 Market Streez‘, Wilmington.
WILLIAM CANBY, President. [ WILLARD H. PORTER, Secretary.

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
The Washington Humane Society.
1317 “F ” Streez‘, N. W., lVas/zz'ﬂgz‘mz, D. C.
A. S. PRATT, President. | H. SIDNEY EVERETT, Secretary.

FLORIDA.

St. Augustine Humane Society.
St. Augustine.

DR. DEVVITT WEBB, .President. I MRS. A. M. MARCOTTE, Secretary.

The Jacksonville Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
facksonm'lle.
O. PIERRE HAVENS, President. IB. H. CHADWICK, Secretary.

Humane Society.
Pensacola.

S. S. HARVEY, President. 1 FRANK MAURA, Secretary.

Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Tam/m,
W. G. BARTHOLOME‘N, President. | I). L. I‘IAVVLEY, Secretary.

__—.———

GEORGIA.

Georgia Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

r 111’172105/1 Street, Augusta.
HENRY B. KING, President. IS. R. CRAIG, Secretary.

 




  

 

 

 

46

Atlanta Humane Society.
Ac/um‘cz.
J. F. BURKE, President. I ORVILLE H. HALL, Secretary.

The, Macon Branch of the Georgia Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals.

ﬁfocou.

ROBT. E. PARK, President. [J. R. KENNEDY, Secretary.
Brunswick Branch of Georgia Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals.

Brunswick.
M. J. COLSON, President. I N. D. RUSSELL, Secretary.

__.—_.

ILLINOIS.
The Illinois Humane Society.
560 Waéusﬁ Aoouuc, Cﬂz’cugo.
JOHN G. SHORTALL, President. I BELDEN F. CULVER, Secretary.
The Aurora Humane Society.
Aurora.
A. K. PERRY, President. I MRS. C. M. FAIRCHILD-ALLEN,
Secretary.
Winnebago County Branch of the Illinois Humane Society.
Rockford.
W. H. FITCH, President. lMRS. N. F. REVV, Secretary.

Galesburg Branch of the Illinois Humane Society.

I 3 3 Ear! Mum Sz‘rcoz‘, Galoso’urg‘.
A. S. HOOVER, President. I]. F. PERCY, Secretary.

The Quincy Humane Society.

Quincy.
LYMAN MCCARL, President. I MISS LOUISE MAERTZ, Secretary.

The Shelby County Humane Society.

S/zc/oyz/z'llc.
DR. T. L. CATHERVVOOD, Pres. ]I)R. W. J. EDDY, Secretary.

 
   

 

  

 




 

 

     

 

48

The South Bend Humane Society.

Soul/z Bend.

S. L. KILMER, President. I D. S. MARSH, Secretary.

Muncie Humane Society.

Muncie.
JOSEPH A. GODDARD, President. I W. R. MOORE, Secretary.

_—

IOWA.

The Iowa Humane Society.

Des It] aims.
THEO. F. GATCHEL, President. I M. C. BRUNDAGE, Secretary.

 

The Humane Society.
Sioux Cz'z‘y.

JOHN C. KELLY, President. I EDWARD CROMWELL, Secretary.

The Council Bluffs Humane Society.

Comm] Blzzj‘s.

D. C. BLOOMER, President. I V. L. TREYNOR, Secretary.

KANSAS.

The Kansas Humane Society.
I/Vz'c/z z'm.

DR. GEO. F. LEWIS, President. I MRS. E. W. MOORE, Secretary.

KENTUCKY.

Kentucky Humane Society for Prevention of Cruelty.

402 [Vest jeﬂersmz Sfrect, lawn/2716.
JOHN H. LEA’I‘HERS, President. I MISS BERTA WILSON, Secretary.

Henderson Humane Society.

Henderson.
L. C. DALLAM, President. I INGRAM CROCKETT. Secretary.

4

  

 




 

    

49

Franklin County Humane Society.
F712 72 /c f 0 H".
E. POLK JOHNSON, President. | B. T. FARMER, Secretary.

LOUISIANA.
Louisiana State Society for Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

57 Carozza’elez‘ Streez‘, New Orleans.
FREDERICK W. YOUNG, Pres. | BERNARD C. SHIELDS, Secretary.

MAINE.
Maine State Society for the Protection of Animals.

Pow/and.
STANLEY T. PULLEN, President. 1 MRS. N. CAVAZZA, Secretary.

The Bangor Humane Society.
chgor.

J. F. SNOW, President. | MRS. M. L. PATTEN, Secretary.
Waterville Society for Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
I’VGZ‘C’Z’T’Z'ZZC’.

S. L. ABBOTT, President. IJOHN WARE, Treasurer.
Lewiston and Auburn Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Lewiston.

WESLEY BLANCHARI), President. | F. B. SANDS, Secretary.
MARYLAND.
Maryland Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

323 Nari/z C/zarlcs Street, Ballz'more.
H. IRVINE KEYSER, President. {JOHN R. DUVAL, Secretary.

    

 




  

 
    
 
    

 

 

  
 
  
  
  
 
   
 
   
 
   

 

 

 

 

 

MASS

The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

I 9 [1127/3 Straw, Basia”,

GEO. T. ANGELL, President.

Taunton

REV. T. CLAYTON WELLES, Pres. I MRS. E. L. MORSE, Secretary.

50

 
  
 
    
 
   

ACHUSETTS.

I JOSEPH L. STEVENS, Secretary.

Humane Society.

Tamzz‘mz.

 

Newburyport Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Newéuryporz‘.

E. S. MOSELEY, President.

I SAM. E. SARGENT, Secretary.

The Lowell Humane Society.
4 5 Cem‘ral 527/6623 [owe/Z.

JAMES BA YLES, President.

I FRANK P. PUTNAM, Secretary.

~——.

MICHIGAN.

Michigan Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Deb/022‘.

T. W. PALMER, President.

Kent County

Grand Rapids.

REV. CHAS. FLUHRER, President.

Kalamazoo Humane Society.

Kala
FRED. HOTOP, President.

St. Clair County

P071 HZU’OIZ,

B. C. FARRAND, President.

MISS IENNIE M. SMITH,
Secretary.

Humane Society.

I MAURICE SHANAHAN, Secretary.

”ZQZC’O.
I SAMUEL FOLZ, Secretary.

Humane Society.

I MRS. HELEN W. FARRAND, Sec.

  

 




 

    

 

    

51
MINNESOTA.

Minnesota Society for the Prevention of Cruelty.

Cor. Sz'xf/z and Sz'éley Streets, Sz‘. Paul.
D. R. NOYES, President. | R. A. HOYT, Secretary.

Minneapolis Humane Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children
and Animals.

Ban/I) of Commerce Buz'ldz'7zg, Mz'zmeapeiz's.
JOHN DAY SMITH, President. [PAUL FONTAINE. Secretary.

Duluth Humane Society.

Duluz‘h.

WILLIAM S. WOODBRIDGE, REV. GEO. H. KEMP, Secretary.
President.

St. Paul Society for Prevention of Cruelty.

141 East Nz'm‘lz Sireez‘, Sz‘. Paul.
T. A. ABBOTT, President. I M. L. HUTCHINS, Secretary.

Steele County Humane Society.
0waz‘07ma.
B. S. COOK, President. [ DR. W. AMOS, Secretary.
The Winona Humane Society.
Wz'ﬂmzd.

DR. D. A. STEWART, President. IL. D. FROST, Secretary.

MISSISSIPPI.
The Mississippi Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Nafe/zez.
JOHN P. WALWORTH, President. RICHARD F. REED, Secretary.’

 

MISSOURI.

Humane Society of Missouri for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children.
and Animals.
421 C/zes/izzez‘ Sireez‘, St. Louis.
CHARLES PARSONS, President. | HENRY WOOD, Secretary.




  

 
  
 
 
  
 

 

 

,52

The Kansas City Humane Society for the Prevention of Cruelty.

Humoolo’z‘ Building, Sz'xi/z and Mom Streez‘s, Kansas Cz'iy.
T. B. BULLENE, President. I THOMAS MCGEE, Secretary.
The Humane Society of St. Joseph, Mo.

Room I5, Corory Bloc/e, Sf. josep/z.
HUSTON WYETH, President. I PAUL FRANCKE, Secretary.

 

 

NEBRASKA.
Nebraska Humane Society.

Orzo/m.

GEORGE L. MILLER, President. |PRESTON H. ALLEN, Secretary.

 

NEW HAMPSHIRE.

New Hampshire Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
I Markez‘ Sz‘reez‘, Portsmouth.
THOS E. O. MARVIN, President. iJAMES R. MAY, Secretary.

Keene Humane Society.

Keene.
DR. GEO. B. TWITCHELL, I MISS ESTHER HANDERSON, Sec.
President. .

 

NEW JERSEY.

The New Jersey Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Room 14, No. 810 Broad Sireez‘, Newark.
CHRISTOPHER ROBERTS, Pres. |E. S. EDWARDS. Secretary.

The Hudson County District Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to

Animals.
W elo’on Building, 76 ﬂioxzz‘gommy S freef, jersey Cz'z‘y.

GEORGE M. MCCARTHY, Pres. |VVM. E. MCCREERY, Secretary.

Cape May, N. J., District Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals.
Cape ﬁlo)».

DR. EMLEN PHYSICK, President. IT. R. BROOKS. Secretary.

     

 




 

 

S3

The Vineland Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
V z'nelmm’ .
PROF. MARCIUS \NILLSON, Pres. | MRS. SARAH M. BIRD, Secretary.
Morris County Branch of the New Jersey State Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Morrz'sz‘ow7z.
MISS E. A. GATTER, President. [ MISS MAUD OLMSTED, Secretary.

The Camden Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Camdm.
WILLIAM J. COOPER, President. I A. T. SELLERS, Secretary.

The Bergen County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Hackmsac/e.
REV. JOHN C. VOORHIS, Pres. I CHAS. W. VANDERBECK, Sec.

 

NEW YORK.

WESTCHESTER COUNTY.
The Sing Sing Branch of The American Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals.
Incorporated March 12. I883.
Sing Sing.
E. G. BLAKESLEE, President. I MISS M. DUSENBERRY, Secretary.

MONROE COUNTY.
The Humane Society of Rochester, N. Y., for the Prevention of Cruelty

to Animals.
Incorporated August 9, 1888.
90 Sop/am Street, Rat/zest”.
REV. JAMES H. DENNIS, Pres. I MISS E. P. HALL, Secretary.

 

ERIE COUNTY.
The Erie County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Incorporated September 21, 1888.
242 Ala/2'12 Street, Buffalo.
E. A. ROCKVVOOI), President. | MISS M. F. ROCHESTER, Sec.

 




   
   
      
     
    
  
    
 
 
 
  
  
 
     
  
 
    
    

54

  

DUTCHESS COUNTY.

The Poughkeepsie Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Incorporated May 18, 1889.

3 5 Marker Sireet, Paug/zéeepsz’e.

WILLIAM B. CARPENTER, CHARLES F. COSSUM,
President. Secretary.

.—

 

ORANGE COUNTY.

 

The N ewburgh Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
' Incorporated July 22, 1889.

Newéurg/z.
GEORGE W. PETERS, President. | A. E. LAYMAN, Secretary.

—_

OSWEGO COUNTY.
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals of Oswego City, N. Y.
Incorporated September 23, I889.

Doo/z'z‘z‘le Home, One/ego.
T. MORRIS PEROT, President. lst. G. M. GARDENIER.Secretary.

 

Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals of the Village of
Fulton, N. Y.

Incorporated November 17, I8gI.
Fulton.
ARTHUR GILBERT, President. I MRS. CHARLOTTE B. WEBB, Sec.

 

 

 

 

 

 

——

ONONDAGA COUNTY.
The Onondaga Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Incorporated January 3, 1891.
T/zz'ra’ National Bank Buz’la’zﬂgr, Syracuse. '
HON. D. BOOKSTAVER, President. I GEORGE B. LEONARD, Secretary.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

56

ALBANY COUNTY.

The Mohawk and Hudson River Humane Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals.

Incorporated March 8, 1892.
West Trey.
DR. WM. 0. STILLMAN, President. ll GEORGE R. HOWELL, Secretary.

NORTH CAROLINA.
The North Carolina Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
As/zew'Z/e.
GEORGE T. DAVIS, President. I WALTER S.CUSHMAN, Secretary.
North Carolina Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children and
Animals.
I/Vz'Zm z'72g2‘07z.
ALEX. S. HEIDE, President. IF. A. LORD, Secretary.

OHIO.

Ohio Humane Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children and
Animals.

46 W est [V {722% Street, Cz'7zez'mzczz‘z'.
THOMAS GIBSON, President. [OSCAR B. TODHUNTER, Sec.

Cleveland Humane Society.
Clem/mid.
JAMES BARNETT, President. I H. A. GARFIELD, Secretary

The Canton Humane Society.
Cam‘mz.
W. W. CLARK, President. I CHARLES R. FRAZER, Secretary.

Humane Society of the City of Columbus, Ohio.
Columézes.
ROBERT S. NEIL, President. [FRANK F. HOFFMAN, Secretary.

Toledo Humane Society.
313 Adams Sty/eel, Yb/ezz’o.
JAMES M. BROWN, President. 11.. G. RICHARDSON, Secretary.

 

 




 

W

The Trumbull County Humane Society.
IVarrwz.

GEORGE P. HUNTER, President. IT. D. OVIATT, Secretary.

Dayton, Ohio, Humane Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Children and Animals.

8 Nort/z jeﬂerson Street, Dayton

L. D. REYNOLDS, President. | H. W. SURFACE, Secretary.

Athens Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Alt/lens.
D. J. EVANS, President. | MRS. A. J. FRAME, Secretary.
Erie County Humane Society.
Sam’us/ey.

I. F. MACK, President. lC. B. LOCKWOOD. Secretary.

Scioto County Humane Society.

Portsmouth
E. E. EWING, President. ' | HARRY BALL, Secretary.
OREGON.
The Oregon Humane Society.
Portland.
T. L. ELIOT, President. [\V. T. SHANAHAN, Secretary.
PENNSYLVANIA.

Pennsylvania Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

1627 C/zestizzzt Street, P/zz'laa’elp/zz’a.
ROBERT W. RYERSS, President. | M. V. B. DAVIS, Secretary.

Women’s Branch of Pennsylvania Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals.
118 Sent/z .S‘ezyeiztee/zt/z Street, P/zz’lzm’e/p/zz'a.

MRS. R. P. WHITE, President. MRS jOIIN \VILLIAMS PATTEN,
Secretary.

 

 

 




    

 

 

 

 

 

 

58

The York County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

York.
CHAS. A. KLINEFELTER, Pres. IH. W. MCCALL, Secretary.

Western Pennsylvania Humane Society.
76 Sixt/z Avenue, Pittsozzrg/z.
LEONARD H. EATON, President. IE. J. YOUNG, Secretary.

The Chester County Auxiliary of the Women’s Branch of the Penn-
sylvania Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

IV est C/zester.
MRS. S. C. MASSEY, President. I \VM. S. KIRK, Secretary.

Berks County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

536 Penn Street, Rea/ting.
JOHN D. MISHLER, President. [JOSEPH A. ALLGAIER, Secretary.

Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
W it] in msport.
MRS. E. L. NICE, President. IMRS. S. M. HERDIC, Secretary.
Lackawanna Branch of Pennsylvania Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals.
Scranton.
DR. B. H. THROOP, President. [J. H. FISHER, Secretary.
Northwestern Pennsylvania Humane Society.

Erie.
F. F. ADAMS, President. I W. B. FLICKINGER, Secretary.

RHODE ISLAND.
The Rhode Island Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

61 Westminster Street, Providence.
J. C. B. WOODS, President. IC. BLANDING, Secretary.

Newport Branch of Rhode Island Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals.
Newton Building, Newport.
I EDWARD R. WHARTON, Treas.

 

 




  

59
SOUTH CAROLINA.

The South Carolina Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals.

C/zarlestmz.
DR. JOHN L. ANCRUM, President. I J. ALVVYN BALL, Secretary.

Richland County, South Carolina, Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals.

Columéz'a. '

TILMAN WATSON, President. | D. R. FLENNIKEN, Secretary.

The Greenville Branch of the South Carolina Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Greenville.
W. E. JOHNSTONE, President. | P. T. HAYNE, Secretary.
TENNESSEE.
Tennessee Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals and
Children.
289 Main Street, 11/e712p/zz's.
TOM GALE, President. IMINTER PARKER, Secretary.

Chattanooga Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children and
Animals.

C/zattmzeoga.
COL. TOMLINSON FORT, Pres. IPROF. E. P. SEARLE, Secretary.

Knox County Humane Society.

Knoxville.
J. I“. J. LEWIS, President. |REV. W. H. BATES, Secretary.

Nashville Humane Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals
and Children.

314-;j Union Street, ZVas/zz'z'l/e.
REV. D. C. KELLY, D.D., President. I M. HOKE, Secretary.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

60

TEXAS.

The Galveston Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Galvesz‘mz.
J. C. S. SPENCER, Pres. fro tem. I W. H. RITTER, Secretary.

._——

UTAH.

Utah Humane Society.

Salt Lake Cz’zfy.
l J. W. GREENMAN, Secretary.

VERMONT.

Vermont Humane Society.

Bristol.
H. B. WILLIAMS, President. IE. A. HASSELTINE, Secretary.

The Brattleborough Society for Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Bralt/eéoroug/z.
DR. GEORGE F. GALE, President. I MRS. MARY C. WARDER, Sec.

Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

[Em/and.
L. N. FRANKLIN, President. [1. H. PENNINGTON, Secretary.

Vermont Humane Society.

Burlington.
HORACE J. BROOKS, President. IH. P. WHITCOMB, Secretary.

Chester Humane Society.

C/zesz‘er.
GEO. H. WALDRON, President. IA. N. CHANDLER, Secretary.

Brandon Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Bramz’mz.
DR. C. W. PECK, President. [W. R. BRIGGS, Secretary.

 




 

  

61

The Randolph Humane Society.

[Matte/ﬁll.
DR. W. S. CURTIS, President. IR. K. WIRES, Secretary.

 

VIRGINIA.
Richmond Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

618 East Main Street, [Ez'e/zzmmza’.
DR. JUD. B. WOOD, President. I W. A. TOWNES, Secretary.

Norfolk Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

106 Main Street, Nerfet/c.
W. F. IRVINE, President. I W. B. BARTON, Secretary.

Woman’s Humane Society of Virginia.

Partsmaat/z.
MRS. A. P. GRICE, President. I MISS M. A. BINGLEY. Secretary.

‘—

WASHINGTON (STATE).

Tacoma Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

20 Gross Bat/(Zing, “ C” aaa’ [Wat/z Streets, Tacoma.

L. F. COOK, President. I H. K. MOORE, Secretary.

 

WEST VIRGINIA.

Huntington Humane Society.

[fa 71 tz'a g to 72.
MA]. JAS. M. LEE, President. I E. F. CHAPMAN, Secretary.

West Virginia Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
W'lzeetzﬂgr.

JUDGE G. L. CRANMER, President. I MRS. JOHN S. TRIMBLE, Secretary.

 

WISCONSIN.
Wisconsin Humane Society.
495 Mz'twaa/eee Street, [Vlz'twaa/eee.
JOHN F. BURKE, President. IMRS. J. M. PERELES, Secretary.

 

 

 

 

 

 

   
     
  
  
  
   
  
    
 
  

 

 

  




 

 

 

 

62

Fox River Valley District of the Wisconsin Humane Society.

49 Alain Slreel, Os/z/eos/z.
EBENEZER JAMES, President. | F. J. WILKIE, Secretary.

Sheboygan Humane Society.

S/zeéoygaa.

T. M. BLACKSTOCK, President. | W. C. ROENITZ, Secretary.

Manitowoc Branch of Wisconsin Humane Society.

ﬁlam'lawoc.

EMIL BAENSCH, President. |P. H. HEWITT, Secretary.

Organized Committee of the Wisconsin Humane Society of Ozaukee
County.
Port Was/zz'yzgz‘m.
A. A. FARMER, President. | C. E. CHAMBERLIN, Secretary.

BRITISH NORTH AMERICA.
The Nova Scotia Society for the Prevention of Cruelty.
9 3 Hollis Slrc’el, Halifax.
J. C. MACKINTOSH, President. I JOHN NAYLOR, Secretary.

Hamilton Society for Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

H a m 2'! lmz.
ADAM BROWN, M.P., President. I HENRY MCLAREN, Secretary.

Kingston Humane Society.
Bagal Slrecl, [Q'ﬁgsz‘a/z.
[ JAMES MASSIE, Secretary.
Canadian Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

196 St. fame: Sirecl, Mom‘real.
CHARLES ALEXANDER, Pres. | GEORGE DURNFORD, Secretary.

Ollawa.
THE MAYOR OF OTTAWA, Pres. I W. C. BAKER, Secretary.

 

 




 

 

 

KINDRED SOCIETIES.

The following list shows the location of kindred organizations
in North and South America in correspondence with the parent
Society.

Alaéama.—— Laws )assed and State Societ organized.
I s
Ar/eazzras— cc 6‘ c. H cc 4:
California.—
Ca/araa’a.— ‘ ‘

5‘ (‘

$‘ ‘K
6‘
C0727zeetz'eut.— _
Dela ware. —— ‘ ‘ ‘ ‘
Floria’a.—- Ordinances passed and State Society organized.
Geargz'a.—- Laws passed and State Society organized.
[dalm— No laws.

[liz'noz's.——— Laws passed and State Society organized.
Izzdz'ana.—— “ “ “ “
K'em‘ueky.~——
Louisiana.—
Maine.—
Maryland.—
[lfassae/mseﬂs. --
ﬂ/z'e/zz'gaiz . —

[V/ 272 72esota.——
Mississippi. —
Mime m’z'. —
ZVeéraska. ———
Nevaa’a.—- Laws passed.

New [lamps/drau—Laws passed and State Society organized.
New/emey.—- " “ " " “ “
New Yer/é. “ ' “
Nari/z Ca7*0/z'7za.-—- “ ' “
0/52’0.—-— “

Orega 72 . —— ‘ ‘

Pezz wry/71cm 2°a. —— “

R/zaa’e [slaizd.-— ' u

Seat/z Ca7'a/z'na.—— 6‘

Tennessee. -— “

 




    
    
  
  
  
   
  
   
 
   
 
 
 
    
 
   
   
   
   
  
   

65

Texas.— Laws passed and State Society organized.
Uta/z.— “ "’ “ “ “ “
V armomﬂ— ‘ ‘ “ “ ‘ ‘ ‘ ‘ ‘ ‘
l”'277‘gz'7zz'a.— Ordinances passed and State Society organized.
[Vest V2'7gz'7zz'a.—— Laws passed and State Society organized.
Wisconsin— ‘ ‘ “ ‘ ‘ ‘ ‘ “ “
lVyomz'ng.——

TERRITORIES.
Alas/ca.—
Arizona.—

Dz’strz’ct of Columéz'a.—Laws passed and Society organized.

[Izdz'an.— _
1Ve'w Mexico.-— Ordinances passed and Society organized.
III:
BRITISH AMERICA. [I
Halifax.—- Society organized. III
Ha7zzz'lton.—- “ “ 4 III
[lionlreaL— “ “ I I
Ollawa.— “ ” - II
Que/wa— “ “ II
St. David’s, Lincoln Co., Ontarz'0.-— “ “ I II
51‘. 70/572.— “ “ I

Toronf0.— “ “ III

ARGENTINE REPUBLIC.

Bumos Ayres.—Society organized.

 

BRAZIL.
132%) (2’3 ﬁmcz’ro.—Society organized.
C UBA.
[fat/ailm—Society organized.
MEXICO.

ﬂ/cxz'co.—Society organized.

DOMINICAN REPUBLIC.

San Domingo.—Laws passed and Society organized.

 




 

AGENTS. -

List of Agents of The American Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals in the State of New York.

ALBANY COUNTY.

BANKS, ROBERT LENOX ........................ , ........... Albany
BANKS, ROBERT LENOX, JR ............................... Albany
BRUCE, N. H ................................................ Cohoes.
BUNDY, HOBART‘ L ........................................... Albany
-BURDICK, B. \V ............................................... Albany
FORD, WILLIAM T ........................................... Cohoes

ALLEGANY COUNTY.
GREENE, MILO BAlfred Centre

BROOME COUNTY.
WILSON, JOHN M ........................................... Deposit

CATTARAUGUS COUNTY.

DALLANBAUGH, M.D., W. CARL. . . . , ........................ Olean
GAENSSLEN, ALBERT ...................................... Gowanda
GROSS, ARTHUR F ...................................... Randolph

CAYUGA COUNTY.

CLAPP, A. B .............................................. Port Byron
WALLACE, RICHARD A ..................................... Auburn

CHAUTAUQUA COUNTY.

BREWER, WILLIAM ....................................... Fredonia
JENKS, A. FRANK ................................... .. . . Jamestown

CHENANGO COUNTY.
RORAPAUGH, FREDERICK ................................ Oxford.

 




67

COLUMBIA COUNTY.

CROWE. DANIEL .................................... Lebanon Springs
GANTLEY, THOMAS H ...................................... Hudson
WHITBECK, CORNELIUS ......... . ........................ Craryville
WILSON, M.D., THOMAS ................................. Claverack

CORTLAND COUNTY.
PERRY, AUGUSTUS S ....................................... Cortland

DELAWARE COUNTY.
HALSTEAD, GEORGE .............. . . . . ................... Stamford

DUTCHESS COUNTY.

CRUSE, M.D., THOMAS K ........................ VVappinger’s Falls
KIDD, JAMES HOWARD .......................... Tivoli-on-Hudson
MOITH, THEODORE ..................... . ................ Fishkill

FRANKLIN COUNTY.
DONOHOE, M. C ....... . .................................... Malone

FULTON COUNTY.

ROOT, ERASTUS .......................................... Gloversville
ROSSELLE, J. J .......................................... Gloversville

GENESEE COUNTY.
HOUSTON, FRANKLIN ...................................... Le Roy

GREENE COUNTY.

BAILEY, MULEORD T ................................... Tannersyille
DECKER, ROSCOE .................................... Pmttsville
HANSEN, HENRY ............................................ Catskill
WILLARD, M.D., CHARLES E .............................. Catskill

HERKIMER COUNTY. .
CARR, A. J .................................. Ilion

HALL, H. CLAY .......................... .. ............... Little Falls
KLEM, PHILIP G .......................................... Herkimer

JEFFERSON COUNTY.

GRAY, H. VVINTHROP .................................... Henderson
WHITE, WARREN A ...................................... \Vatertown

 

 

 

 




 

68

KINGS COUNTY.

CORTELYOU, P. L ........................................ Bay Ridge
DE MUND, M.D., J. E ................................... Bath Beach

LIVINGSTON COUNTY.

HILL, HARLIN H ................. . ........................... Dalton
KILLIP, W. W ............ . ......... . ........................ Geneseo

MADISON COUNTY.

BARLOW, C. F ......................................... . . . .Canastota
BRYANT, HAROLD ........................................ Brookﬁeld
COVELL, JOHN J ...................................... . . . .Morrisville
LIPPITT, F. B .......................................... ‘ ..... SOlSVille
LOCKMAN, A ............................... . .............. Cazenovia
NASH, JOHN B ........................................ . . . .Lebanon
SWEET, EDGAR D ......................................... Cazenovia
WARREN, JOB A ........................................... De Ruyter
WEST, ADDISON J ........................................ Hamilton

MONTGOMERY COUNTY.

EATON, ALFRED G ....................................... Amsterdam
FOX, BROWNELL C ...................................... Canajoharie
KLINE, CHARLES ......................................... Amsterdam

MERENESS, CHARLES W ................................ Fort Plain
ONEIDA COUNTY.

ASHLEY, THEODORE J ............................. New York Mills
BLAIKIE, WILLIAM ............................................ Utica
ELLIOTT, F. M ........... . ................................ Waterville
LEWIS, W. D ........................................ Washington Mills
ROBERTS, M.D., DAVID HENRY ............................ Trenton

ONONDAGA COUNTY.
OTIS, ISAAC C ........................................ . ....... Jordan

/

ONTARIO COUNTY.

MCPHILLIPS, M. J ........................................ Canandaigua
MEAD, C. H ................................................... Geneva

ORANGE COUNTY.

MILLS, JAMES J ........................................... Port Jervis
NANNY, HARRISON W ............... . ...................... Goshen
WELLER. ABEL L ....................................... Middletown
WILLIAMS, N. H ........................................... Ridgebury

 




    

69

ORLEANS COUNTY.
VAN STONE, EDWIN. ....................................... Albion

OSWEGO COUNTY.

JOYCE, WILLIAM ............................................ Oswego
NEWMAN, E. G ....................................... North Hannibal
NEWTON, HARLAN L ................................. Sandy Creek
PENFIELD, W. H ............................................ Mexico

OTSEGO COUNTY.

LATHROP, CHARLES MCHARG ......................... Cooperstown
SITTS, JOHN H .................................... Richﬁeld Springs

PUTNAM COUNTY.

BENNETT, WALTER J ...................................... Mahopac
YEOMANS, WARD B .................................... Cold Spring
QUEENS COUNTY.

BARTO, HENRY S ........................................... Flushing
BRUST, AUGUST C .......................................... Maspeth
BUHLER, JOHN .................................... North Hempstead
BUSCH, ADAM. . . .. ....................................... Woodhaven
CLAPP, IRA M ............................................. Flushing
CLOVVES, LEWIS H. ...................................... Hempstead
CONKLIN, ARCHIE E ....................................... Jamaica
DENLEY, JOHN ..................................... , ..... Thomaston
DUNBAR, JOHN J .......................................... Freeport
HELMUTH, EDWARD .................................. Far Rockaway
HENDRICKSON, JOHN S .................................... Jamaica
HENTZ, ALBERT ............................................ Maspeth
LOSEE, HORATIO ......................................... Glen Cove
MARVIN, JAMES R ................................. Rockville Centre
REMSEN, HERBERT O. . A ............................... Glen Cove
SCHOLLE, THEODORE ...................................... \Ninﬁeld
SEAMAN, VALENTINE ...................... . ........ Rockaway Beach
SKIDMORE, JR., A. W .................................... Cedarhurst
VAN WAGNER, WILLIAM ............ i ................. Locust Valley
WALSH, JOHN C ....................................... Far Rockaway
WILSON, SAMUEL ....................................... Hempstead

RENSSELAER COUNTY.

CLINT, DE WITT .................... . .......................... Troy
JONES, W. FRANK ...................................... 1,,ansingburgh
LANE, LE ROY C ............................................. Troy

STEVENS, A. L ......................................... Lansingburgh

 

 

 

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
  
 
   




 

(D'bituarg ﬂiewrd.

The Society mourns the loSS of the following
members, who have died during the year:

ALDRICH, MRS, CHARLES *
BOOTH, EDWIN

BROWN, MRS. ANNA E.
DITMAN, MORTIMER
DOWST, JOHN A.
FALLERT, JOSEPH

FIELD, BENJAMIN H.
FISH, HAMILTON

FRESE, CHARLES
GROESBECK, DAVID
JOHNSTON, JOHN TAYLOR
KEMP,GEORGE

LANE, MRS. FRANCISJL
LEAVY, BERNARD

LOW, ABIEL A.

McLEAN, GEORGE W.
MUSTOE, DR. J. F.
OSGOOD, MRS. S. R.
SENEY,GEORGE L
SIIIELDS, HON. WM. E.
STERLING, THEODORE w.

* Died September 18, 1892. 't Died October 17, I890.

 

 

 




 

a

To 5/2056 w/zo may feel (523750560? 2‘0 donate [2y [WILL Z0
Me émzevo/em‘ oéjccz‘y 0f Mix Sandy, t/ze followz'ﬁg
2'5 suémzﬂea’ as a form .-

Form of [Keynes/2' of / Warm/(11' Property.

I give and bequeath unto “The American Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals,” a corporation. created by
and existing under the laws of the State of New York, the sum
of ................................................................................... dollars, to be applied to
the uses of said corporation,

Form of Dezrziwr of 16m! Pra‘lﬁcrty.

I give and devise unto “The American Society for the Pre-
vention of Cruelty to Animals,” a corporation created by and
existing under the laws of the State of New York, all [here insert
description of property], together with all the appurtenances,
tenements, and hereditaments thereunto belonging or in any Wise
appertaining, to have and to hold the same unto the said cor-
poration, its successors and assigns, for ever.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 




.me> >>mz .Hmmmkm Umm Ems @— .mmmhm<:Oo<mI >m<m0m§mh

 

 




 

9

them. Our Society possesses such powers, and its use of them, I
am happy to say, has been so discreet as to have exposed it to no
charge of malfeasance. Where such a society exists, it is evident
that no other similar society can exist without the danger of an
unseemly conﬂict of authority, which would result in the destruc-
tion of the whole work. But if our Society is to retain exclusive
powers in this work, its right to do so must be justiﬁed by its
efﬁciency. It must be competent to do the whole work, and to do
it thoroughly.

To this end, we need a large increase of means. Our work in
Brooklyn has been so extended that we have been obliged to
secure more commodious quarters, which have been located,
for the present, at 13 Willoughby Street, but, like our head-
quarters in New York City, these are temporary quarters, not
originally intended, nor now properly adapted, for the work
of our Society. Both in New York and in Brooklyn, but cer-
tainly in New York, it is high time that we should have a
building erected with a special view to the use of our Society,
and in every way adapted to the purposes of our work. Until
that shall be done, we shall continue to work at a disadvan-
tage, and I cannot but express the hope that some humane
person may be moved to give or bequeath the means for the
erection of such an ediﬁce. Here again, however, we have to
bear in mind that the possession of such a building would give us
increased opportunities of usefulness which would require an in-
crease of our working staff. With or without such a building,
our staff ought to be increased without delay, and in order to in-
crease it, increased means are necessary. Our work is growing
day by day. In its educational outreach it is growing beyond
our hopes. I must therefore urge you more earnestly than ever
before to do your endeavor to secure to the Society that liberal
support which will enable it to extend its activities wherever they
are required. The success of the past year has been highly en-
couraging, but its greatest encouragement is this, that, if we will,
our usefulness in the next twelve months may be made still
greater.

Icannot conclude the present address without expressing our
ever-grateful thanks to the press of the country for its sympathetic

 




 

 

   
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
    

and punished :
CANALS.

The persistent crusade carried on by the Society for so many
years against cruelties practised on the towpaths has almost
accomplished its purpose. Indifference to the sufferings of
horses and mules which haul the products of the State through
the canals is passing away, the canal—men realizing that to re-
spect the spirit and letter of the humane laws for the protection
of animals, so vigorously enforced by the Society, is to their
pecuniary advantage. The sickening sight of animals with
bleeding shoulders, chafed by the harness, is now of rare occur-
rence. '

Occasionally a decrepit horse or mule is found, which is at
once suspended from labor. It is hoped that ere the close of
the new year electricity or some other motive power will be
substituted for the horses and mules now used,

PATROL SERVICE.

This department of the work cannot be too highly commended.
It has rendered aid to animals found in the streets and elsewhere,
in every condition of physical suffering. Its opportune arrival,
with skilful humane surgeons, bandages, medicines, and soothing
lotions, has brought relief to many a poor dumb creature whose
sufferings would otherwise have been prolonged. Its manifold
duties cannot be enumerated—they are a part of every phase of
the Society’s work—and it is ever ready to respond to calls for
its services.

Many hundreds of animals, belonging to people unable to pay
for advice and medicine, have been treated free of charge by
the Society and its veterinary surgeons.

AMBULANCE AND DERRICK SERVICE.

The ambulances, of which the Society owns three—two in
New York and one in Brooklyn have been kept busy ; likewise
2

 

the most flagrant cases wherein the offenders were prosecuted




 

 

THE

FOLLOWING ARE SOME OF THE MORE

IMPORTANT CASES PROSECUTEI) DURING THE
YEAR 1893.

Jan. 2.

Jan. 3.

Jan. 3.

Jan. 3.

Jan. 3.

Joseph Machovsky was driving a team of skeleton steeds attached to a
heavy stage-coach containing seven hilarious young men engaged in
making New Year’s calls. The animals, which were lame, sore, weak,
and feeble, gave out at the corner of Lexington Avenue and Twenty-
ﬁrst Street, and the Society’s ambulance was sent to take them to the
veterinary hospital. The passengers objected to being interrupted in
their calling, and declared the horses should not be taken away, but, on
the contrary, should pull the vehicle until the occupants were through
visiting. They were advised that it was a dangerous matter to inter-
fere with ofﬁcers while engaged in the discharge of duty, which had a
soothing effect, and the weary horses were put in the ambulance and

' taken for rest and food. Machovsky was arrested and charged with

cruelty to animals. He was ﬁned ten dollars by the Court of Special
Sessions.

For six days Tedele Decannio neglected to give his horse food and
drink. The poor creature had eaten every particle of woodwork within
reach, and when found by the Society’s ofﬁcer was wasted to a mere
skeleton. Several witnesses testiﬁed to the neglect, and Decannio
was ﬁned twenty-ﬁve dollars by the Court of Special Sessions. The
horse was humanely disposed of.

Samuel Thurber, a young medical student, amused himself by shooting
at cats with a Flobert riﬂe. A cat belonging to a neighbor was shot in
the back by Thurber. The poor creature crawled round the yard for
several days, until ﬁnally discovered and humanely destroyed. Thurber
was prosecuted by the Society, convicted of the offence, and ﬁned ﬁve
dollars by the Court of Special Sessions.

Frank Carney was found on Hudson Street, near Vestry Street, driv-
ing a miserable specimen of a horse attached to an express wagon.
The animal, in addition to being lame, was weak and feeble. It was
taken to a near-by stable, fed. and attended to. Carney was ﬁned ﬁve
dollars by the Court of Special Sessions.

James McCluskey, for driving a horse attached to one of the city’s
ash-carts, while suffering from two dreadful sores on its back and two
smaller ones on the breast, unprotected from the harness, was ﬁned
ﬁve dollars by the Court of Special Sessions.

 




    

 

 

33

March 18. Jacob Keilhauer and Henry Arnold, having objection to the pres~
ence of a cat in a building of which they rented a part as a store, each
got a club and chased the animal into the cellar, where they clubbed
it to death. Both offenders were prosecuted, and ﬁned ﬁve dollars
each by the Court of Special Sessions.

March 18. Information over the telephone resulted in an ofﬁcer being sent to
Forty—second Street and Madison Avenue, where Isaac Bowers was
found driving a very lame horse attached to an ash-cart. Bowers was
ﬁned ﬁve dollars by the Court of Special Sessions. This is an in-
stance where cruelty was promptly punished on receipt of timely
information.

March 18. “ \Vorking horse to ash-cart; sore back, sore on each shoulder,
unprotected from harness; also lame,” was the charge against John
O’Conner, who was arrested while endeavoring to make the animal
pull a heavy load. The horse was unhitched and sent in the Society’s
ambulance to a veterinary hospital for treatment. O’Conner was
locked up, and subsequently ﬁned ﬁve dollars by the Court of Special
Sessions.

March 20. One J. Sugarman used a piece of wire as a substitute for a driving
bit, and his horse’s mouth was badly cut.
Sugarman was convicted of the charge of cruelty, and ﬁned ﬁve
dollars by Judge Smith.

March 27. Joseph Swartz, for beating his horse over head and body with a
whip, was ﬁned ﬁve dollars by the Court of Special Sessions.

March 28. Elisher Raymond, of Canastota, Madison County, for starving
cattle, was prosecuted by the Society’s local agent, and ﬁned twenty-
ﬁve dollars by Judge Geo. B. Russell.

April 5. For brutally kicking his horse in the stomach, Anternio Scario was
ﬁned ten dollars by the Court of Special Sessions.

April 8. For carrying a calf in a cruel and inhuman manner, C. C. Smith, of
Geneva, Ontario County, was ﬁned ﬁve dollars.

April I2. Joseph E. Picket, because his horse slipped, threw a pail containing
ashes at its head, and kicked the animal in the belly. Fined ﬁve
dollars by the Court of Special Sessions.

April 18. “I’m not going to take the horse out for you or anybody else,” said
John Walker, when advised to take the animal to the stable for rest
and surgical treatment, it being lame and sore, emphasizing his
refusal by giving the unoffending horse a vicious cut with the whip.
Walker changed his mind when put under arrest, and was willing to
do anything. The horse was ﬁrst attended to, then. the owner, who
was subsequently ﬁned ﬁve dollars by the Court of Special Sessions.

3




 

 

 

 

 

, ONEW YORK ‘

OUR ANIMAL FRIENDS

A/V ILLUSTRA TED JlO/VTHLY ﬂ/[AGAZINE

THE ORGAN OF

The American Society for the Prevention of

Cruelty to Animals.

 

CONTAINING ORIGINAL AND INSTRUCTIVE ARTICLES OF INTEREST TO ALL ANIMAL OWNERS

AT HEADQUARTERS COURT NOTES
THE LIBRARY THE VETERINARIAN
YOUNG PEOPLE’S MUSEUM, ETC.

Also Serial and Short Stories and Interesting Miscellany by Well-KnownWriters

SUBSCRIPTION, ONE DOLLAR PER YEAR

Published at the Headquarters of the Society, IO East 22d St., New York.

 




 

 

 

    

47

Champaign Branch of Illinois Humane Society.

C/zampazgn.
HENRY TREVETT, President. I A. H. BRYAN, Secretary.

The Humane Society of Springﬁeld.
Sprz'rzgﬁelzz’.
FRANK W. TRACY, President. I HOWARD K. WEBER, Secretary.
Jacksonville Humane Society.

facksomzz'tte.
A. C. WADSWORTH, President. I WM. PATERSON, Secretary pro tem.

Kankakee Branch of Illinois Humane Society.
. Kanéez/eee.
DR. A. S. CUTLER, President. I D. L. DURHAM, Secretary.

INDIANA.

The Indiana Humane Society.

68 West Market Street, Indianapolis.
DAVID W. COFFIN, President. I WM. 11. ROBSON, Secretary.

Crawfordsville Humane Society.

Crawfora’sm’tte.
DAVID HARTER, President. I A. H. BRADEN, Secretary.

The Evansville Humane Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Women, Children, and Animals.

315 Upper FOZH’f/l Street, Evansville.
S. S. SCANTLIN, President. I WILL WARREN, Secretary.

Jefferson County Humane Society.

Madison.
CHAS. C. CORNET'I‘, President. 1 JOHN W. LINCK, Secretary.

Fort Wayne Humane Society.

82 Clinton Street, Fort I Vayne.
GEO. H. \VILSON. President. I C. 15. ARCHER, Secretary.

 




 

 

 

  

55

The Central New York Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Incorporated January 16, 1891.
07707251615761.
WILBER S. PECK, President. [JOHN R. CLANCY, Secretary.

ROCKLAND COUNTY.

Rockland County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Incorporated February 20, 1891.

[VJ/tack.
H. C. GILCHREST, Pres. pro tem. I D. DEGRAFF, Secretary.

CHEMUNG COUNTY.

The Elmira Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

 

Incorporated February 21, 189I.
Elmira.
DR. THERON A. WALES, Pres. | MRS. HORACE FRENCH, Secretary.

 

BROOME COUNTY.

Broome County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Incorporated March 23, I891.
Bing/M77210”.
DR. L. D. STONE, President. | C. E. SHORES, Secretary.

 

ULSTER COUNTY.
The Ulster County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Incorporated July 25, I891.
K'z'ngsz‘mz.

JOHN MCENTEE, President. | W. D. HALE, Secretary.

 

JEFFERSON COUNTY.

Jefferson County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Incorporated December 5, ISgI.
[Valle/702011.
S. A. HAYT, President. | MRS. GEO. H. BABCOCK, Secretary.

  

 

 




  

63
Quebec Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Quelzee.
E. J. HALE, President. IA. ROBERTSON, Secretary.

New Brunswick Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Ferry Building, Water Street, St. jo/zn.
JOHN V. ELLIS, President. 1 E. J. WETMORE, Secretary.

Toronto Humane Society.

103 Bay Street, Toronto,
W. R. BROCK, President. | MISS ANNA B. DELL, Secretary.
Fredericton Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Frederieton.
| CHARLES A. SAMPSON, Sec.

 

SOUTH AMERICA.
Sociedad Argentina Protectora de los Animales.

Calle Paraguay 1059, Buenos Ayres, Argentine Repuolie.

DR. IGNACIO L. ALBARRACIN. I REV. DR. CARLOS W. DREES,
President.

Rio de faneiro, Brazil.
A. M. N. GONCALVES, President. I J. ALBINO DA CRUZ, Secretary.

_.__——

WEST INDIES.

Havana, Cuba.
D. J. G. VILLARAZA, President. |

San Dominao, Dominiean Republic.

RAFAEL ABREU LICAIRAC, Pres. l CESAR N. PENSON, Secretary.

—__—

MEXICO.
City of Mexico.

VIDAL CASTANEDA Y NAJERA, EDUARDO L. GALLO.
President. Secretary.

 

   

Secretary.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
   
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
    
  
 
 
 
    
  
 
     




 

7O

RICHMOND COUNTY.
BRADY. PHILIP ......................................... Stapleton
ELLIOTT, GEORGE .......................... . ......... New Brighton
JOHNSON, DAVID C ..................................... Tottenvilie
MATHESON, JAMES C ................................... Green Ridge

ROCKLAND COUNTY.

CALL, JAMES ............................................ Haverstrnw
SPRINGSTEEN, LEONARD ................................... SuHern

ST. LAWRENCE COUNTY.
WRIGHT, D. V ........................................... Ogdensburgh

SARATOGA COUNTY.
NUGENT, D. F ....... - .............................. . ....... \Vaterford
RICE, GEORGE A .................................. . . . .Mechanicsville
SELDEN. EDWIN D ................................ Saratoga Springs
WOOD\VORTH, H. J ................................. Mechanicsville

SCHOHARIE COUNTY.

BECKER, W. H ................ , ................. . ............. Gilboa
PLANK, OLIVER F.‘ ...................................... Gallupville

SCHUYLER COUNTY.
ROGERS, ROBERT P ......................................... Burdett

SENECA COUNTY.
CLARY, JOHN ..SenecaFalls

STEUBEN COUNTY.

BURKE, THOMAS w ........................................ Addison
DUDLEY, J. C .................................................. Bath
PHILLIPS, M.D., CHARLES R .......................... Hornellsville

SUFFOLK COUNTY.

ANDERSON, THOS. S. \V ................................ Stony Brook
BALCHEN, OSCAR L .................................... Babylon
CAMPBELL, ARCHIBALD H .............................. Huntington
COLLINS, JOHN G .................................... East Hampton
DAYTON, WILLIAM B .................................. Port Jefferson
GILDERSLEEVE, SELAH P ..................... . ............. Elwood
HOWELL, WILLIAM M ...................................... Setauket
MORISON, GEO. W .................................. .. Ronkonkoma

 




   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
   
  
   
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    

7i
MULFORD, HENRY D ...................... . ............. Northport
PENNEY, ROBT. W .......................................... Flanders
REEVES, DETMOLD ........................................ Greenport
RENVVICK, S. C ........................................... Amityville
SAVAGE, M.D., WILLIAM B ............................... East Islip
SMITH, C. F ............................................. Cutchogue
SPEERS, REV. JOSEPH .................................... Brentwood
SQUIRES, EDWARD N ......................... . ........ Good Ground
SUYDAM, WALTER L ..................................... Blue Point
TOTTEN, JOHN C. . . ............................. Cold Spring Harbor
VAIL, A. R ................................................... Southold
\VELLS, GEORGE E .................................. Baiting Hollow
SULLIVAN COUNTY.
DECKER, A. A ......................................... Mountain Dale

ULSTER COUNTY.

ELLSVVORTH, ELIJAH ..................................... Kingston
MILLER, GEORGE S ...................................... Pine Hill
OSTRANDER, DE VVITT \V .............................. Clintondalc

WARREN COUNTY.

B'EVINS, S. H ............................................. Chestertown
BURNETT, WILLIAM H ................................. Queensbury
HARRIS, E. S ........................................... Lake George
MOSHER, C. A .......................... .. ............... Glens Falls
WASHINGTON COUNTY.
JAKEVVAY, FREDERICK ................................... Fort Miller
MCFARLAND, W. M ............................................ Salem
MICKLE, JAMES ........................................ Fort Edward
SCOTT, GEORGE H ........... 4 ............................. \Vhitehall
WAYNE COUNTY.
AGETT, WILLIAM W .......................................... Lyons
WESTCHESTER COUNTY.
ANGEVINE, GILBERT J ................................ Mount Vernon
BARR, JOHN H ............................................. Irvington
BAUER, JULIUS ........................................ Williamsbridge
BENNETT, MARTIN J .................. , ................ Mount Vernon
BRITT, BENJAMIN A .................................. Mamaroneck
BYRNES, PATRICK ........................................ Larchmont
CLARK, HOMER G .................................. North Tarrytown

CLENDENIN, D.D., F. M ................................ West Chester

 




 

72

COLLINS, HIRAM J ................................... Mount Vernon
DEMING, M.D., WILLIAM C ........................... West Chester
FANNING, M.D., THOS. C ............ . .................... Tarrytown
FARLEY, JOHN M ....................................... White Plains
FOWLER, GEORGE ...................................... White Plains
GARNJOST, FERDINAND ......................... South Mount Vernon
HAINS, GEORGE C ........................................ Rye Neck
HARRISON, W. S ......................................... Pelhamville
HUSS, HENRY ........................................ Mount Vernon
JOHNSON, PERCY D ................................... Mount Vernon
KONRAD, AUGUSTUS .................... . ................. Tarrytown
MCCULLUM, T. DUANE .................................... Irvington
MCGRORY, DANIEL F ................................... West Chester
SMITH, WILLIAM A ....................................... Bronxville
STEVENS, CHAS. S ......................... . ............. Port Chester
TAYLOR, ROYAL E ......................................... Peekskill
TURNER, S. J ............................................... Peekskill

YATES COUNTY.

MCLAUGHLIN, AMOS. . ..................................... Penn Yan
PECK, MARTIN W ....................................... Middlesex

 




LIFE MEMBERS.

 

The payment of one hundred dollars or more, at one time,
secures a life membership.

A

Anderson, Mrs. E. M.

Andrews, C. A.
Andrews, Mrs. B. L.
Arnold, William

Astor, William Waldorf

Avery, Samuel P.

B

Beadleston, W. H.
Bergh, Henry
Bonner, Robert
Boyd, J. Gilmore

Brady, Miss Jennie T.

Brown, Lewis B.

Busteed, Richard, Jr.
Butts, Mrs. Laura A.

C
Campbell, A. H.

Chambers, Dr. M. L.

Claﬂin, Arthur B.
IClaﬂin, John
Claﬂin, Mrs. H. B.
Clausen, Henry
Clews, Henry
Crapo, John M.

 

D

Daly, Henry F.

Daly, Mrs. Henry F.

DeWitt, George G.

Dickinson, Mrs. H. A.

Dilks, George W. .
Dodge, Mrs. Charles Cleveland
Dodge, Norman W.

Draper, Mrs. Henry

E

Ehret, George
Ewen, Miss C. G.

F

Faber, Gustavus W.
Faber, Mrs. Angelica B.
Foster, James

G

Gebhard, William H.
Gerry, Hon. Elbridge T.
Gilbert, Frederick E.
Gray, Horace

Gudewill, George
Gunning, William J.
Gunther, F. Frederic

 

 




 

 

H

Hadden, John A.
Haines, John P.
Hamilton, John L.
Hammond, Edward A.
Hawkins, Gen. Rush C.
Hawkins, Mrs. Rush C.
Hicks, Benjamin D.
Hoe, Robert, Jr.

Holt, Mrs. Frances Elliott
Homans, E. C. '
Howard, Bronson
Howard, Mrs. Alice
Humfreville, J. Lee
Hunt, Miss Nannie A.

I
Iselin, Miss Emilie E.

J

James, Mrs. John S.
Jesup, Morris K.
Johnston, J. Boorman
Jones, John D.

K

Kemp, Edward
Kingman, Mrs. Martin E.
Kohlsaat, John \V.

L

Langdon, Miss Anne L.
Lanier, Charles

Lee, Miss Alleine
Liautard, Dr. A. F.
Low, Joseph T.

M

Marié, Peter

Marsh, John Edward
Marshall, Charles H.
Meeker, Dr. C. H.
Merritt, Mrs. George

74

Milbank, Mrs. Joseph
h/Ioffat, Miss Myra
Morss, Mrs. Mary T.
Mott, J. L.

Moulton, Miss Eliza
Moulton, Mrs. F. A.
Murray, John B.

N
Newcomb, Mrs. Marie Guise

O

O’Berry, Loftus

O’Brien, William
O’Gorman, Hon. Richard
Olcott, F. P.

Oothout, William
Osborn, William H.

P

Parrish, James C.
Post, Edwin A.
Pyne, Mrs. Percy R.

R

Remsen, Robert G.
Reusens, G.

Rhines, Mrs. Isaac Olcott
Rudd, Joseph

Ruppert, Jacob

Russell, Hon. Horace

\

S

Schaefer, Frederick
Scharmann, H. B.
Schermerhorn, William C.
Shaw, Mrs. Francis G.
Sherman, George
Sherman, \Villiam \Vatts
Stevens, Frederick W.
Sticht, Mrs. Augusta
Stokes, James, Jr.

Straus, Nathan

 

 




 

Stuyvesant, Mrs. J. Reade
Buckley, Robert B.
Suckley, Rutsen

Sulzer, Hon. \Villiam
Swezey, Mary E.

T

Tiffany, Charles L.
Tuck, Edward

V

Vanderbilt, F. \V.
Vanderbilt, Mrs. F. W.
Van Kirk, Miss Lila
Van Rensselaer, Kiliaen
Van Tassel, Emery M.
Van Tassel, Miss Ada

\1

UL

\V

’Wagstaff, Hon. Alfred
\Vagstaff, Mrs. Alfred
\Vatson, George H.
\Vebb, \Villiam H.
\Veston, Mrs. R. W.
Vl’heeler, Miss Laura
\Yhite, Mrs. C. E.
\Vinans, Miss M. Antoinette
\Vinslow, Edward
\Vinthrop, Benjamin R.
Wolff, Agnes H.
\Vood, Charles B.
\Vyinan, John H.

\7
Yuengling, David G , Jr.

 

 

 

 

 




 

MEMBERS.

The annual membership subscription is ﬁve dollars.

A

Abbott, W. G.
Abendroth, W'. P.
Abraham, Abraham
Ackerman, E. W.
Ahlmann, Otto
Appelbaum, Henry
Appleton, W. H.
Aron, A.

Astor, Mrs. J. J.
Avery, Mrs. S. P.
Avila, Mrs. Samuel A.
Ayer, Frederick F.

B

Bache, Miss Marion
Bachmann, Frederick
Bacon, J. M.

Baird, A. D.

Baldwin, C. C.

Baldwin, H. M.

Baldwin, Mrs. T. Burnett
Banyer, Goldsboro
Barker, Miss Isabel R.
Barlow, Mrs. Francis C.
Barret, Miss Lily
Barrow, Mrs. J. Thomas
Bartlett, E. B.
Battermann, H.

Bayne, S. G.

Beers, Edwin

Beinert, Charles

3elford, William J.
Benedicks, Leonard
Berau, Henry
Bernheimer, Simon E.
Berns, Dr. George H., V.S.
Bigelow, Mrs. Poultney
Binge, Julius

Blake, Peter

Blois, Mrs. E. S.
Bodine, B. J.

Bowne, Mrs. Philip H.
Bracken, Peter B.
Brady, Miss M. L.
Breese, Miss Eloise L.
Bremer, Mrs. Alexander
Brooks, Mrs. Erastus
Brown, Edward W.
Brown, Thomas

Brown, VValston H.
Brown, Mrs. Walston H.
Brunjes, George F.
Bull, W. L.

Bull, Mrs. W. L.

Bull, Jr., W. L.
Bullinger, Mrs. E. T.
Burge, Miss M. L.
Byrnes, Rev. James P.

C

Cadwell, Mrs. S. U.
Cady, Mrs. J. C.
Callender, Thomas 0.
Campbell, Alexander

 




Canty, Daniel

Carr, Miss Mary J.
Carscallen, Mrs. J. D.
Carscallen, Miss Kate
Cary, Mrs. W. F.
Cassidy, Rev. Chas. A.
Cassidy, John

Catlin, Miss C.
Chamberlain, Miss F. A.
Chisolm, Benjamin 0.
Choate, Joseph H.
Christensen, Gen. C. T.
Clark, Edw. J.

Close, S. B.

Coburn, Miss L. C.

Coe, Miss Miriam Storrs
Cohen, Solomon L.
Cohen, Stanley A.

Cole, Abram

Colgate, A. \V.

Colgate, Mrs. A. W.
Colton, Mrs. Lucy T.
Cooper, Charles W.
Corbett, C. H.

Coudert, Frederic R.
Coutts, Mrs. G. H.
Cowles, Alfred A.

Cox, Smith

Coyle, Miss J. Antoinette
Cramer, L. H.
Crimmins, Thomas E.
Crossman, Miss Grace
Crossmond, Mrs. L. D.
Crowell, Edward B.
Cruger, Mrs. Blanche E.
Cunningham, Geo.
Curtis, Mrs. G. W.
Curtis, Miss E. B.
Curtiss, Miss Sophia

D

Dailey, John L.
Dalley, Jr., Henry
Dalzell, Mrs. John D.
Darlington, J. A.

Darrigrand, Alexander A.
Darrigrand, Miss Fannie
Darrigrand, Miss Lucie
Darrigrand, Miss Marie
Davidson, Miss Clara
Dawes, Mrs. Martha S.
De Bow, Mrs. A. M.

De Cordova, Alfred

De Gerlach, Alexander
Dehon, Miss M.
Dejonge, Louis

De La Vergne, John C.
Dempsey, Daniel

De Ruiz, Mrs. P. B.
Desjardins, Miss Louise G.
De Witt, Mrs. George G.
De Witt, William G.
Dexter, Henry

Dick, Mrs. W. B.

Dix, S.T.D., Rev. Morgan
Dodge, William E.
Doelger, Peter

Donnelly, Edward
Donovan, Dennis ,
Douglass, Mrs. Byron
Dowd, Timothy

Draper, Mrs. John H.
Dunn, H. M.

E

Ebling, Philip
Eckstein, Monroe
Eckstein, Samuel
Edwards, J. Pierrepont
Ehrmann, Ernest
Ehrmann, Julius
Elder, Mrs. George W.
Elkins, Miss Ida
Elliott, Henry

Ellis, Mrs. A. V. H.
Engeman, George H.
Engeman, William A.
Englis, Charles
Ensign, Herman L.
Eppelsheimer, Henry

 

 

 

 




 

F

Fahnestock, William
Fairbanks, Mrs. L.
Fairchild, Mrs. A. V.
Fearon, Robert J.
Felt, Mrs. Edwin M.
Ficken, C.

Finck, August
Fischer, Mrs. Charles
Flegenheimer, Henry
Fleig, A. B.

Flint, Mrs. Charles R.
Foller, Nicholas
Fontenilliat, Mrs. Julia F. de
Ford, Malcolm W.
Forney, Matthias N.
Franchot, Mrs. Helene ‘
Frankenberg, D.
Franzreb, John

Freel, Edward
Freeman, Mrs. L.
Freeman, W. D.

Friedman, Leonard
Fries, Frederick
Froehlich, Joseph J.
Friihauf, Miss Victoria
Fuller, William H.
Fuller, Mrs. \V. H.

G

Gager, Mrs. O. A.
Gallatin, Frederic
Gatter, Miss Georgia
Gaus, John L.

Gescheidt, Anthony L.
Gibb, John

Gibbons, Francis J.
Glassford, H. A.

Godwin, Parke

Goodrich, Geo. Selden .
Goodrich, Mrs. Thomas F.
Grauer, George

Gregory, Dudley S.
_Gregory, Mrs. Dudley S.”

Gregory, Louis
Guiterman, Rudolph
Gunther, Henry

H

Hackett, Jeremiah
Haffen, John

Hagerty, M. H.
Haight, Mrs. D. H.
Hamilton, Henry
Harris, Isaac
Harrison, Mrs. Mary L.
Harrison, W'. S.

Hart, Charles

Hart, Charles H.
Hart, Cornelius A.
Hart, Patrick

Haven, George G.
Haviland, S. W.
Hecht, Aaron

Heins, John L.
Henderson, Mrs. Harriet
Hendricks, Charles
Hendricks, Mrs. Charles
Hentschel, Charles
Hentz, Henry
Heyland, E. A.
Higgins, Charles S.
Hill, \Varren E.
Hinrichs, C. F. A.
Hinton, Miss H. M.
Hitchcock, l\v’Iiss F. A.
Hoegg, \Villiam
Hoffmann, Jacob
Hogan, Charles \V.
Hogan, Timothy
Holbrook, Isaac E.
Holbrook, Miss Lillian
Holland, P.

Hollins, Mrs. H. B.
Holmes, Mrs. J. W.
Holt, C. T.

Holt, George D.

Holz, Bernard

Holz, Mrs. Bernard

 




Hopf, Max G.

Hopkins, H. C.
Hopkinson, Miss Jennie M.
Horn, William E.
Horrmann, August
Horrmann, \Villiam
Horton, James M.

Hosey, Michael

Hower, Frederick

Huber, Otto

Hudson, Miss Anna Hope
Huerstel, Edmond
Huntington, A. M.
Hupfel, J. C. G.

Huyler, Mrs. A. L.

Hyatt, Mrs. Margaret A.

Ibert, Frank

lngersoll, Robert G.
Ingersoll, Mrs. Robert G.
Ingersoll, Miss Maud
lngraham, Mrs. B. F.
Irving, G. fE.

Iselin, C. Oliver

J

Jeffery, Dr. George C.

Jennewein, Valentine

Jerzmanowski, Baron E. J.

Jewell, George S.

Johnson, Dr. S. K.

Johnson, Joseph

Johnston, Mrs. Mary

Jones, Mrs. l“. R.

Jones, Floyd-, Mrs. George
Stanton

Jurgens, \V. B. A.

K
Keeney, E. N.
Keller, George
Kellogg, \V. A.

Kendall, Miss Georgiana
Kendall, Miss S. R.
Kensett, Miss Gertrude W.
Kent, George H.

Kiefer, Henry

King, Marc J.

Knapp, John M.

Knapp, Miss M. M.
Knobel, Mrs. Emma
Knowlton, E. l“.
Knowlton, Henry T.
Knox, Thomas W.
Koehler, Mrs. L. I).
Korbay, Mrs. Francis
Kraus, Benjamin
Krowder, Miss Alice

I.

Laiinbeer, Richard M.
Lawrence, Augustus
Lawrence, Mrs. S.
Leggett, Francis H.
Lembke, Jr., Charles
Leslie, Miss Gertrude
Levy, Aaron

Lewis, Mrs. Jennie
Lewis, Percy l.’yne
Liebmann, Charles
Liebmann, Joseph
Lipsius, Mrs. Claus
Livingston, Miss Annie L.
Lockman, Jacob K.
l,.ocl<man, John '1‘.
Lockwood, John E.
Loewi, Edgar

Loewi, Mrs. Edgar
Loewi, Valentine
Loomis, J11, Alfred L.
Lotto, lr‘rederick
Low, Hon. Seth

Low, Mrs. Seth
Lowell, Mrs. C. R.
Lowell, Miss C. Russell
Lowery, Mrs. John A.
Lyman, E H. R.

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

  

M

Macdonald, A. J.
Mackenzie, John
Mackenzie, Miss L.
Mackenzie, Miss M.
Mackenzie, William
Maclay, Robert
Major, F. H.
Manson, Jr., Mrs. T. L.
Marks, Mrs. Nannette
Marks, Selim
Marsh, David
Marsh, Nathaniel
Marshall, Miss C. E.
Marshall, E. C.
Mattison, F. J.
Maverick, Mrs. Brewster
May, Moses
Mayer, David
Maxwell, Henry \V.
McClellan, Miss Mary Malle-
ville
McEwen, Mrs. D. C.
McFarlan, Mrs. Edward
McGahie, John
McGee, James
McLean, John
McLean, Miss Matilda
McQuade, John
Mercer, G. H. H.
Mercer, Miss Margaret
Mergle, Anton
Merritt, Miss E.
Mersereau, A. B.
Mertz, Miss M.
Meserole, A. V.
Meyer, Henry
Meyer, Mrs. L. H.
Michelbacker, S.
Minck, Henry
Minturn, Miss Eliza T.
Minturn, Hugh
Minturn, Miss Mildred
Minturn, Mrs. Robert B.
Mintz, Dr. Frederick

 
 

Mogk, William
Moller, Mrs. S. Adelina
Monahan, Thomas

Monnot, J. B.

Montgomery, Geo. H.
Montgomery, H. B.
Montgomery, James H.
Morris, Lewis G.

Morrison, Mrs. George Austin
Morton, Hon. Levi P.

Moss, Frank

Moss, Harris

Muller, Edward M.

Mulligan, James

Munch, Ferdinand

Mustoe, Dr. Frederick

Myers, George L.

 

 

N

Namm, Adolph I.
Natrass, Mrs. Frank E.
Neidlinger, Adam
Neilson, Howard S.
Nelson, Mrs. Walter H.
Noble, Mrs. Elizabeth F.
Nobs, Mrs. M. Madelaine
Norton, Ex.

0

Oakford, Miss Ellen

Ochs, Ernest

Ockershausen, Henry A.
Olcott, George M.

Orr, John C.

Orvis, Franklin H.
O’Shaughnessy, Nelson J. W.
Ozioni, Mrs. Anna

 

P

Palmer, Dr. Ernest
Palmer, N. F.

Palmer, Mrs. N. F.
Palmer, Master Frank
Palmer, Master George

  
  
  

     




 

  

Parker, Miss Mary D.
Parsons, W. H.
Pearsall, Mrs. F. E.
Pell, J. H. '
Pell, Mrs. J. H.
Perkins, Miss Edith H.
Perry, C. M.

Perry, Mrs. C. M.
Piffard, Miss Nina H.
Pirie, S. C.

Plate, Carsten
Pomeroy, Miss F. Josephine
Pommer, Frank 1..
Pomroy, Mrs. H. K.
Pool, John H.

Pope, N. Q.

Prout, Dr. J. S.

Prout, Mrs. J. S.
Purdy, J. H.

Q

Quinlan, \Villiam

R

Rader, Gustavus W.
Raisch, Julius
Raymond, Charles H.
Redding, Mrs. Josephine
Renault, Louis
Reynolds, C. H.

Rich, Mrs. H. B.
Richardson, \Villiam
Rinschler, Frank
Robinson, Dr. S. A.
Rodewald, F. L.
Roosevelt, J. A.
Rosenbaum, Mrs. Helen
Rosenbaum, Mrs. Mary
Rosenthal, Robert J.
Rosenwald, Henry
Rosenwald, Isaac
Rosenwald, Sigmund
Rouss, C. Broadway
Rowland, Thomas F.

6

S

St. John, William P.
Schaefer, Charles
Schloss, Alexander P.
Schmadeke, John F.
Schmidt, Mrs. John A.
Schmitt, George
Schrader, George
Schultz, Carl H.

Schurz, Miss Marianne
Scott, John R.

Scranton, Miss Amelia E.
Seccomb, Miss ﬁertha H.
Seccomb, Mrs. E. A.
Seeligman, Simon
Shearman, Thomas G.
Sheldon, Miss Anna E.
Sheldon, Mrs. Henry K.
Sheperd, Dr. A. W.
Shivler, Charles S.
Shotwell, H. T.

Shults, John H.

Siegman, Alfred
Siegman, Edward
Siegman, Richard

Silver, Mrs. C. A.

Simon, George A.

Skene, Dr. Alexander J. C.
Skene, Mrs. Alexander J. C.
Slocum, Jr., Henry W.
Smart, Mrs. F. R.

Smith, Crawford C.
Smith, H. A.

Snow, E. G.

Soergern, George
Spencer, A. H.

Spencer, Jr., Mrs. Lorillard
Squire, Newton R.

Stade, von, F. \V.
Standish, Myles
Standish, Mrs. Myles
Stanton, Edmund C.
Stanton, Mrs. John
Stark, Philip

Stein, A. M.

 

 

 

 
   
   
  
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
   




Stein, Conrad

Stern, Benjamin
Stewart, David
Stewart, Hugh
Stewart, Thomas J.
Stillman, Thomas E.
Stokes, Anson Phelps
Stone, Edwin

Story, J. T.

Stout, William V.
Strauss, Mrs. Jacob
Strauss, Samuel.
Stricker, Henry
Sutro, Mrs. Theodore
Swords, Miss P. C.

T
Tappenbeck, F. W.
Taylor, Thomas F.
Tiedemann, F.
Tilford, Miss Etta
Tilley, John \V.
Thomas, Frederic C.
Thomas, Miss M. L.
Thompson, Edward P.
Thompson, Frederick F.
Thouron, Mrs. E. A.
Thurnauer, Felix
Toedteberg, Miss Emma
Trask, G. D. S.
Trask, Spencer
Tucker, Miss M. B.
Tucker, Mrs. R. S.
Tulley, Matthew S.
Tuttle, Miss E.

U

Ulmer, William
Ulrich, Thomas
Ulshoeffer, W. G.

V

Van Buren, Mrs. H. M.
Van Campen, H.

Van Iderstine, F. A.

Van Ingen, Mrs. E. H.
Van Name, J. Howard
Van Ness, J. Newton
Van Orden, Miss Anna
Van Orden, Miss Mary L.
Vogt, Henry

Voislausky, S. P.

\V

\Vade, 'William D.
\Valser, Dr. Wm. C.
\Vard, Mrs. F. A. B.
'Ward, L. B.

\Vaters, V.S., Dr. E.
\Vebl), H. Walter
Webber, Joseph
Weigold, Frederick
\Veil, Charles M.
\Velz, John

\Vendell, Mrs. Gordon
\Veston, Miss Emily J.
\Vhalen, Richard
\Vharton, Edward R.
\Vhite, S. V.

.XVhitewright, William

\Vicke, \Villiam
\Vickliam, William Hull
\Vilhelm, Mrs. Emily
\Vilkins, Morris
Wilkinson, James A.
Willcox, William G.
\Villiams, R. C.

\Vilson, Charles H.
\Vilson, D. J.

Wilson, Miss Grace M.
Wilson, Gen. James Grant
\Vilson, John M.

\Ving, L. Stuart

\Ving, Mrs. L. Stuart
\Ving, Miss Marion
Wissel, A.

\Vinter, George

Wood, Mrs. Duncan
Wood, Geo. A. W.

 




Wood, Mrs. H. G.
Woolverton, \Villiam H.
Wooster, G. H.

Wooster, Mrs. G. H.
Work, James Henry
Work, Mrs. James Henry
Wright, Harriet

Wyckoff, Peter

Wyeth, Dr. J. A.

r,

<7.)

Wyeth, Mrs. J. A.
Wyman, Miss Esther

7.

Zebbly, Mrs. John F.
Zeltner, Henry
Zimmerman, E. J.

 

 




 

DONATIONS

YEAR 1893.

A

Abeel, John H. .
Abendroth, W. P. .
Acker, Merrall&Condit
Ackerman, Charles F.

A. M. M. C.

“ A1iadne” .

Arnold, Constable & Co. .

Atlantic Avenue RR. C0.,
Brooklyn . . .

B

Baeder, Adamson & Co.
Behr, H , & C0. . . .
Beckwith, Mrs. L. F. .
Beckwith, Miss Margaret .
Bentley, Ellis W .
Bishop, M1s. H. R.

Bliss, Mrs. Jeannette Dwight
Bossert, Louis . . .
Braidich, A. F (special)
Brooklyn City Rl\. Co
Brooks, G. W. . . .
Brun, Mrs. A. C. . .
Budweiser Biewing Co.
Bunce, John .

Burger & Hower Brew mg Co
Burnett, S. O.

Burnham, L. S.

,Cabble, Elijah

Carll, Miss

Carson, Henry .

Cash (H. L. M..)

Cash (R. ). .

Chadwick, Mrs. J. H. . .
Chamberlain, Miss F A. .

Chisolm, Mrs. W. E.

. $21

U’lUl {DUI

IO

N

NU'l
mm Om 001mm OU‘lU’lU‘lH HUlU'lUI

H

H

00
OO
00
00
OO
00
OO

00

OO
00
00
OO
00
00
OO
00
OO
00
OO
00
OO
00
OO
00
OO

00
00
CO
00
00
OO
00
OO

 

Chisolm, Benjamin Ogden
Chrome Steel \Vorks
Chrystie. W. F.
Clements, I. U.
Constable, W.

Coster, C. H.
Cowperthwait Co.
Crawford, R. L. . .
Crawford, Mrs. M. 1‘). .
Crosby, Miss M. E.
Cross, Austin & Co.
Cross, Mrs. Frances E.
Cross, Joseph A., & Co.

D

Dahn, John A., & Son .
Daly, Mrs. Henry F.
Dejonge, Louis

Dehon, Miss M. . .
Derenthal & Schalk .

De Ruiz, Mrs. P. B.

Destin, Lottie Y.

Dick, Mrs. Wm. B.

Dickey, Charles D. . . .
Dodge, Mrs. W111. E, senior.
Douglass, Marion & Stone
Dunphy, Miss Julia K.

E

Ehrich B1os.

Ellis, Wm. D. .

Ennis & Sons, Thos.

Eppig, Joseph

Export Lumber Co. (Limited)

F

Fairbanks, Mrs. Leland
Faye, Mrs. Ernest Frederick .
Felt, Mrs. Edwin M. . .
Fink, John

RECEIVED DURING THE

=69
U1

U1
HCUI

U'lulU‘lUimUIm 001

25

IS‘

IO
10

25

IO
31

IO

25
IO

30

15

 

00
00
OO
00
00
C O
OO
00
00
OO
00
00
OO

 

00
OO

00
00
OO
00
OO
00
00
00
OO

00
00
OO
00
OO

00
oo
oo
50

  

 




 

 

Flint, Mrs. C. R.
Fo1d, James B.
F1ank Brewing Co.,
F1anks, C. Douglas
Frost, Albert P.
Frothingham, J. \V.

w: H'.

G

Gates, Miss Charlotte G. .
Gignoux, Mrs. Charles C.
Gilford, Samuel T. . . .
Goodridge, Mrs. Frederic .
Grahlfs, Herman .
Greason & Howland

H

Haight, Mrs. A. . .
Halsey, Mrs. Frederic Robt.
Ham, James M. .
Hamilton, Adelaide
Harbeck, Mrs. Eliza D.
Hard, Miss Laura W.
Hardy, Voorhees & Co.
Harrison, \V. H

I'lawley, Miss Jessie O.
Hecla Iron Works .
Hegeman, Joseph, & Co.
Heissenhuttell & Nearing
Hoffman, Mrs. W. B.
Hoffman, Miss D. W. .
Holt, Mrs. Frances Elliott
Hornthal, Mrs. Sarah
Hosch, F. .
Howell, IIon. James
Hughes, P. G. .

Hyatt, Mrs. Margaret A.

I

Ilsley & Co., S. A. . .
India Wharf Brewing Co.
Indig, E. .
In Memoriam,
Aldrich.

Iron Clad Mfg. Co.
Iselin, Miss Emilie E.
Itgen, E. H. .

Mrs. Charles

J
Jaquins, Mrs. Edward .

K

Kelland, Mrs. P.
Kelsey & Loughlin .

. $30

25

OO
00

500

UthUl

IO
IO

U!
ONUIU'IH

[OH
00

to
UIU'IUIUIU'I OUILnUIUImUIUI

U\H

OO
00
OO

00
00
00
OO
00
OO

00
00
OO
00
OO
00
00
00
OO
00
00
00
OO
00
OO
00
OO
00
OO
00

OO

00

00

OO

00
OO

00

OO

85

Kemp, Mrs. George . $50 00
Kendall, Miss Georgiana . IO 00
Kenyon & Newton 4. 5 00
Ring & Adams 5 00
leots & llros. Sons \ValterT. 5 OO
Knicke1bocke1 Ice Co. . . I5 10
Korber, Albert 5 00
L
Langdon, Mrs. \\ oodbury 10 00
I angler & Sons N. . . 5 00
Lanier, Mrs. J. 1‘. IO 00
Lawrence, Mrs. Saniuel . . 5 oo
Leibinger Ck Oehm Brewing
Co. . . . . . . 10 (10
Lewis, Jr., Mrs. George . 300 00
Lewis, Mrs. Jennie 5 00
Lewis & Co., S. \V. . . 5 00
Lewis & Fowler Mfg. Co. IO 00
Lins & Sons, 11. 5 00
Little, Robbins . 5 (.0
Lockitt 8; Sons, George 5 OO
Lockwood, Mrs. B. 5 00
Long Island Brewery 5 00
Low, Edward A. 5 00
Low, Mrs. Seth . 5 00
M
McAdam, Mrs. Phebe J. 5 oo
McAlpine & Co., I). ll. 25 00
Mackenzie, James 5 00
Mackenzie, Thomas 5 00
McShane & Co., Henry 5 00
Male, W. H. . . . . 5 00
Mali, Charles 5 oo
Marcks, L. H. 5 oo
Marsten & Son 5 oo
Ma1tense, A. V. . 5 00
Masury & Son, John \V. . 5 ()0
Matthews, The ﬁ1n1 of Jolin . IO 00
May, Levy & May IO 00
Milbank, Joseph . . . 100 00
Milbank, Mrs. Joseph . 5o 00
Mollenhauer Sugar Reﬁning
Co . . . . . 5 oo
Moquin 8; Offerman . . . 5 CO
Morss, Mrs. Mary T. 10 oo
Morton 8: Sons John . . 5 00
Mott Iron \\ orks, Ihe J. L. 5 00
M,oulton Mrs. F. A. . 100 00
N
NewYork Condensed Milk Co. 25 00
North American Brewing Co. 5 OO
Noyes, James S. 25 oo

 

 

 




O
Oothout, Mrs. Jane E. .

P

Parker, James V.

Parsons, Mrs. Mary Lewellyn
Perkins B. .

Pomroy, Mrs. A. F

Powell, D. B.

R

Ridley & Sons, Edward
Robinson, Mrs. E. A. . .
Roosevelt, Mrs. Robert B. ,‘.J1
Ixudd, Joseph. .
Ruppert, Jacob
Rushmore, I. W.

S
Schaefer Brewing Co., F.& M.
Scranton, Miss Amelia E.
Seccomb, Mrs. E. A.
Seitz, M.
Shaw Mrs. FrancisG.
St. John, Wm. P. .
Stokes, Anson Phelps
Stranahan J. S. T.

Stutz, Louis . .
Swords, Miss P. C.

T

Taylor, James R. .
Thimig, Herman, & Son .

IO

25
IO

to
mmmmm Ommmm

00

OO
00
OO
00
00

OO
00
00
OO
00
OO

00
00
00
OO
00
OO
00
OO
00
OO

00
OO

 

86

Thompson & Co. .

Thompson, F1ede1ick F.

Thompson, James

Thom, G. R.

Th01p,J. H. .

Tibbals, Henry H, In mem-
ory of . .

Totten, G I. .

Trevor, Mrs. H. G. .

Tuttle’ 5 Son & Co. ., S. .

U

Ughetta Henry L.
Ulshoeffer, W. G. .
United States Bung M’ fg Co.

‘7'

Valentine’s Sons, S. .
Vogel & Bros, \Nilliam

W

Wallace, W. H.
Weil, Lemuel
Westcott Express Co.
Weston, D. D., Rev. D. C.
White, Miss Susan E.
Wilde’s Sons, Samuel .
Williamsburg Brewing Co.
Wolf & May .
Worthington
W01ks

Hiy d r a u l 1 c
Wright, Miss Harriet .

 

mmmom

U'IU'I

   
    

OO
()O
OO
00
00

00
OO

00

00
OO
00

OO
00

00
00
OO
00
00
OO
00
OO

00
OO

 




 

 

CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE BROOKLYN

 

BUILDING FUND RECEIVED DURING
THE YEAR 1893.
Anderson H . . . $0 50 Ga1clen Iarty of Brooklyn
Bowne, Mrs. Philip H. . . 00 VV0111a11 s I) A. A. A. ,pro—
Brooklyn Woman’ 5 Dumb ceeds of . . . $200 00
Animal Aid Association . 223 60 IIiwlies S. J. . 2 00
Carlson, A. O. . . . . I 00 Jones, I‘. I I 00
Calscallen, M15. J D. . . I 00 Jordan, Henry I 00
Cash. . . . . . 2 00 ,Kupp, C. C. . . . . 3 co
“ A. B. D. . . . . . 50 Lambertson, Mrs. E. B. 5 00
“ A. E. T. . . . . . 50 Low, Josiah O. . . IO 00
“ C. C. A., Mrs. . . '. I 00 May, Levy & May 20 OO
“ C. M. K. . . . . . 20 Newgien, Miss E. I 00
“ E. W. S. . . . . . 25 I\0se11haum, Alexander I 00
Darrigrand, Miss F. 5 00 R0se11l1a111r1,1\lrs. II. 5 OO
Dimrock, J. J. 2 OO Rosenbaum, Philip . 5 OO
Dod,d G. F. I 00 Stark 8; Reger 2o 00
Ennis, J. J. . . . IO 00 Stieht, Mrs. M. 50 00
1*1seher Miss Tillie . . . 3O 00 Trainor James . 5 00
Gahagen, H. A. . . . . I 00 \‘Vadsworth Mrs. L A. I 00
Greene, Thomas L. I 00 Westerberg, P R. I 00

 




