quarrelsome. When one birds crowds an-
other too closely the other slyly pushes him
back. Then the ﬁrst may slap sharply with
his ﬂipper, and his opponent nips with
his beak. And so they have it out.

But the little fellows are really very so-
ciable. They waddle along the snow by the
hundreds, stopping to chat merrily when
they meet another gang going in the op-
posite direction.

Their nesting colonies—called rookeries
——may have a population of one hundred
thousand penguins crowded together on lit-
tle pebble nests only a foot or two apart.
The birds are incessantly scrambling up and
down well worn streets to their colonies,
frequently located high on rocky ridges or
on tiny islands.

A Young Man’s Fancy

During the spring nesting season the
rookery sounds like a madhouse of confu-
sion, scrambling, bickering, bustling and
quarreling, while the whole population is
busily engaged in wooing or hatching a new
crop of chicks.

Penguin courtship starts when the male
tries to interest a likely mate by presenting
pebbles—one at a time—for her inspection.
A suitor who lacks pebbles will sneak up be-
hind a brooding hen and steal one from un-
der her tail.

When the groom is accepted by the lady
of his choice, the couple spread their ﬂippers
and go into a swaying love dance, honking

loudly all the while.

After the wedding dance, the boy penguin
sets out to collect more pebbles to build a
nest beneath his frau. Once the egg is laid,
both mother and father take turns insulating
it against the killing cold during the incu-
bation period.

While one is on duty the other usually
heads for a swim with other penguins also
bent on a night out on the town. Tumbling,
chattering and splashing they perform like a
crowd of kids in the old swimming hole.
They hop a ride on a passing ice Hoe or

duck and swim with an amazingly powerful
overhand stroke. Flightless on land, pen-
guins literally ﬂy in the water. They alter-
nately dive and leap with the magniﬁcent
grace of a porpoise.

It’s like watching a ﬁlm of divers in re-
verse to see a platoon of penguins shooting
out of the water in great arcs onto a rock
or an ice ﬂoe. They skid to a stop and
pick themselves up like stocky wrestlers.

Graceful in the water, they are ludicrous
when marching hautily on land. Stumping
along on their ﬂat feet they look pretty silly,
swaying from side to side like short-legged
fat men, often tripping and falling ﬂat on
their stomachs.

But even funnier is the spectacle of pen-
guins bellywhopping through snowdrifts,
propelling themselves along on their stom-
achs like little boys trying out a new Christ-
mas sled. Emperors can make as much as
ten miles an hour when toboganning, which
they resort to when they are tired or fright-
ened or have long distances to go.

Penguin Enemies

The life of a penguin is not all fun and
frolic. Enemies are always lurking near. The
sea leopard waits beneath the ice and darts
out to snatch them with sharp—toothed jaws.
Killer whales also relish penguin meat. Over-
head, huge hawklike gulls with four-foot
wing spread, swoop and prey on penquin
eggs and young.

For this reason parents seldom leave an
egg or young chick unattended. The Em-
peror cradles its offspring on its wide feet
under a warm abdominal pouch. Taking
turns, the parents even manage to move
about slowly carrying the egg on their feet.
By the time the young are too big to ﬁt in
the pouch, the Antarctic summer is at hand
and the growing penguins can fend for
themselves, already trained by their parents
in the art of self-preservation and the pro-
tection of their descendants. No training is
necessary to develop their sense of fun and
frolic. This instinct is inborn.

11

 




 

 

 

 

PRODUCTS AND SERVICES

 

MONUMENTS FOR PETS

 

Special Attention Given To Pet Memorials

JOHN G. LUX SONS

CEMETERY MEMORIALS
Lux Monuments Since I880
\Nork Executed in All Cemeteries

Office & Plant Open Sundays
MT. OLIVET 8: ELIOT AVES. Telephone
Maspeth, N. Y. HEgeman 3-4l82

 

 

 

PET SPECIALTIES

      
  
 

USE
SANl-PANTI

washable nylon.
‘ sanitary belt for
female dog. Prevents
stains on rugs. etc. Slips
on—nothing to fasten—
no’ buckles or hardware.
Comfortable. Self-adjust-
ing. 5 sizes. $1.75 at
leading department stores
. and pet shops. N0 C.O.D.
‘ If not available. send
$1.75 With measurements and breed 0f dog and we
will deliver prepaid. ,Specify I)II{.. brown or White.
0.8. SPECIALTIES 00...
Dept, 870. I38 Prince Street. New York I2. N.Y. _

 

 

 

PET SUPPLIES

 

KEEP YOUR PETS
FREE OF FLEAS
TICKS. MITES. ETC. SPRAY THEM WITH
M I T - E - K I L
HINTON & CO.. INC.
67 MURRAY ST.. NEW YORK CITY

 

 

LOOK TO COSMIC FOR THE FINEST
IN PET SUPPLIES
FUR COATS for DOGS—CAGE COVERS
AQUARIUM SUPPLIES

NEW ROCHELLE MFG. CO.
New Rochelle. N. Y.

 

 

 

  
    

‘ ESUITfABLE
FLEAS 50¢ K I ﬁnE ﬁrs
DUST ON ONE SPOT Guaranteed by Manufacturer
ROTENONE from derris. Best for over 20 years.
Free comb taped to each can. Tested and true.
RAT and MOUSE ' m
KILLER (Mixwithmeal) One 'SPQT
Rat Er Mouse KIIIer,

   

 
      
 

  

Warfarin Concentrate to
make 21/2 pounds of bait . lmunml

only 100

f One-Spot the guaranteed

FLY KILLER (Just mix with
1 quart sugar.) MALATIIION
CONCENTRATE —— They’ll die

like ﬂies Buy toda y——50¢
All above by ONE-SPOT CO.,Jessup, Md. (Metal
cans) 4 cans each $4.80 postpaid (Value 38.00)

  

 

 

ROVER’S PRODUCTS FOR YOUR PETS

Dog Shampoo, Dog Spray, Cod Liver Oil, Itchex,
Flea Powder, Wheat Germ Oil, Dog Soap, Cat Flea
Powder. Be sure to ask for "ROVERS" at your favor-
ite pet supply counter. Satisfaction guaranteed or
money back.

RICHARD E. ROVER CO.
70 Madison Street Hoboken. N. J.

 

 

 

TROPICAL FISH & ACCESSORIES

 

HENRY’S TROPICAL FISH HATOHERY

Wholesale Distributors of
AQUARIUM ACCESSORIES & TROPICAL FISH

Mail Orders
109-08 - IOIst Avenue Richmond Hill I9, N. Y.

 

 

 

TROPICAL FISH FOOD

 

WAWIL IS BACK

Wawil, an old time favorite fish food for over 45 years,
has returned. Also excellent for making infusorIa.

VITA-MIN-BRICK
The very best all around tonic for ﬁsh and plants
Sole Distributor
Richard Hanau. G.P.O. Box 514. N.Y. I. N.Y.

 

 

PROTECT THE HEALTH AND WELL-BEING'
OF YOUR PETS WITH
LONGLIFE®

AOUARIUM FISH FOODS AND REMEDIES
Longlife Fish Food Products

707 New York Ave. Union City. N. J.

 

 

YOUR FISH ARE WHAT THEY EAT.
Do as the breeders do.
USE A COOKED FOOD
Demand PEEKSKILL FOOD at your dealer.
100% pure, 100% nutritious.

Send for free literature.
Box A-5. Jefferson Valley. N. Y.

 

 

 

 

IO 5 ll. ”Sloan

For The "CARRIAGE TRADE"

Cannibal Mix FosterFry
Liver Protein Tid Bits

10 Magnolia St. Newark. N. J.

 

 

TROPICAL FISH HOBBYISTS

’“ Write for 24 page booklet. ‘Fin Facts’
/
mutt and introductory sample of Wardley’s

- I Tropical Fish Food. Enclose 10¢ in coin

. To: ®
.3 r1.- ward ley’s
V NEW YORK 13, N. Y.

 
 
 

 

27

 




 

ANIMAL PROTECTION

Published three times yearly by

Ute American Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

Founded and Incorporated 1866

Vol. 12, NO. 3
Editorial Ofﬁce: 30 East 60th Street

Winter 1958

Editor, JANICE PAI’RIN

 

ADMINISTRATION OFFICES . . . .
441 East 92nd St., New York 28, N. Y. (York Ave.)
WARREN W. MCSPADDEN, General Manager
ARTHUR L. AMUNDSEN, Assistant General Manager
GEORGE H. TUSCHER, Director of Humane Work
KATHERINE M. LEHR, Secretary to Committees
THACHER PROFFITT, PRIZER, CRAWLEY & WOOD,

Attorney and Counsel

HOSPITAL AND CLINIC . .

441 East 92nd St., New York 28, N. Y.
JOHN E. WHITEHEAD, V.M.D., Chief of Staff
THOMAS A. FEGAN, Business Manager

EDUCATION DEPARTMENT
441 East 92nd St., New York 28, N. Y. (3rd Floor)
DIANA HENLEY, Director

PUBLIC RELATIONS DEPARTMENT . . . . PLaza
30 East 60th St., New York 22, N. Y.

JUNE ELIOT, Director

ANIMALPORT . . . . .

Air Cargo Center, New York International
Airport, Jamaica 30, N. Y.
GEORGE F. BAUER, Resident Manager

BRONX SHELTER. . . . . .
420 Morris Park Avenue, Bronx 60, N. Y.
(between Tremont Ave. and East 178th St.)
N. MICHAEL BROMLEY, District Manager

BROOKLYN SHELTER . . .
233 Butler St., Brooklyn 17, N. Y.

(between Nevins and Bond Streets)
HARRY J. CONNOLLY, District Manager

MANHATTAN SHELTER . . . .
441 East 92nd St., New York 28, N. Y.
FRANCIS MELVIN, District Manager

NASSAU COUNTY SHELTERS

Pratt Blvd. Ext, Glen Cove, L. 1. .
VINCENT J. PATTERSON, Shelter Manager

70 Water Street, Long Beach, L. 1. .
JAMES J. MCKENNA, Shelter Manager

QUEENS SHELTER . . . . .
94-27 158th St., Jamaica 33, N. Y.
ROBERT B. FERRIS, District Manager

RICHMOND SHELTER . . . .
4 Willow Ave., Rosebank, S. I. 5, N. Y.
WALTER L. HOLLINDE, District Manager

WESTERN WESTCHESTER SHELTER . . . . LYI‘iC

Old Saw Mill River Rd., Elmsford,.N. Y.
CARL STOHR, Shelter Manager

TRafalgar

OLympia

TYrone

TRiangle

TRafalgar

GLen Cove

GEneral

REpublic

Glbraltar

TRafalgar 6-7700

6-7700

TRafalgar 6-7700, Ext. 31

5-1650

6-6042

2-8500

5-9580

6-7700

4-5913

1-0660

9-4041

7-0122

2-7890

OFFICERS

WILLIAM ROCKEFELLER, President
WILLIAM F. MORGAN, Vice-President
JAMES H. RIPLEY, Vice-President
RICHARD C. KETTLES, Vice-President
WILLIAM A. MEYERHOFF, Treasurer
LOUIS REYNAL, Secretary

JOHN W. BEAM, Asst. Secretary
WARREN W. MCSPADDEN, Asst. Treasurer

BOARD OF MANAGERS

JOHN D. BEALS, JR.
WILLIAM E. BUCKLEY
JOHN W. CROSS, JR.
JAMES H. JENKINS
ROBERT L. JONES
JOSE A. MACHADO, JR.
ALASTAIR B. MARTIN
JOSEPH B. MURRAY
HUGH E. PAINE

W. ROSS PROCTOR
WILLIAM A. ROCKEFELLER
GEORGE B. WAGSTAFF

Managers Emeritus
F. AMBROSE CLARK
HENRY J. FISHER
SAMUEL R. MILBANK

 

COVER PICTURE

“Merry Christmas,” says this little
pup. “I’m here at the ASPCA Shel-
ter. Won’t you please take me
home for Christmas? But before
you do, please read the 10 Rules for
Giving Christmas Pets 011 page 19.

“And Merry Christmas and Happy
New Year from the whole ASPCA
staff.”

 

 

H. Armstrong Roberts photo

 

 

 




WINTER 1958

 




 
   
    
   
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
      
      
     
   
   
   
    
     
      
   
   
   
     
   

ﬁred when the lever is pressed.

Still in the experimental stage is the
Remington one-hand stunner. The bolt is

Remington Arms Co.

scious. One tunnel will immobilize 600 hogs
an hour.

The process, also adaptable for cattle and
sheep, was developed and ﬁrst used in Geo.
A. Hormel & Co. plants in 1952. Hormel,
which received the ASPCA Hopkins award
in 1953, now uses the “sleep tunnel” in its
plants at Fremont, Nebraska; Austin, Min-
nesota; and Fort Dodge, Iowa.

The CO2 hog immobilizer is also being
used by Hygrade Food Products Corp., Ker-
igan Division, Indianapolis, Indiana; Cudahy
Packing Company, Wichita, Kansas; Dressed
Pork Company, Sioux City, Iowa. Oscar
Mayer & C0. this year installed a unit at a
cost of $250,000 in its Davenport, Iowa,
plant and expects to have one in operation
in its Madison, Wisconsin, plant by July.

The Captive Bolt Pistol

Oscar Mayer pioneered the use of an-
other humane slaughter method in 1947,
when it began using a captive bolt pistol to
stun cattle at its Madison plant. The com-
pany was cited with the Hopkins award in
1954 for this innovation, which it brought
over from England. (Most European coun-
tries are far ahead of the United States in
practicing humane slaughter.)

The captive bolt pistol emits a three-inch
bolt from a barrel when a blank cartridge
is ﬁred. The bolt penetrates the animal’s
brain, producing unconsciousness instantly.
A mechanism holds the bolt “captive,” pre-
venting it from leaving the gun. The pistol
is simple to operate, requiring neither the
strength nor the skill that a man trying to
stun a large animal with a hammer must

The Schermer Captive Bolt Mechan-
ical Stunner, shown with wooden
handle, is placed against the ani-
mal’s head. A trigger ﬁres a blank
cartridge and a bolt shoots out,
knocking the animal unconscious.

Alfa International Corp.

have. In different sizes, it can be used for
any type of livestock.

Seitz Packing Company, Inc., Missouri,
and North Side Packing Company, Inc.,
Pennsylvania, are among the plants now us-
ing the captive bolt pistol.

Another European captive bolt device is
the Schermer stunner, manufactured and
used in Germany for over 30 years and
ﬁrst used in this country in 1956. The in-
strument, resembling a large ﬂashlight in
appearance, is placed against the animal’s
head, a blank cartridge is ﬁred and a bolt
knocks the animal unconscious. Or it can be
used with a wooden handle which has a trig-
ger at the end. It is noiseless and recoilless.

About 100 United States packers, includ-
ing Armour, Rath, Hormel and Oscar Mayer,
are now using the Shermer stunner. A half
million are in operation all over the world.

Still in the research stage is a new hand-
triggered, captive bolt pistol type of pene-
trating instrument now being perfected by
the Remington Arms Company, Bridgeport,
Connecticut. The company hopes to place its
one-hand Stunner on the market soon.

Already gaining increasing acceptance by
the packing houses is another Remington
tool, initially tested in 1955 and perfected

3

 
 
 




 

 

   

These suggestions may not ﬁt into the
traditional idea of gifts beneath the Christ-
mas tree, but they work out much better
in the long run in kindness and considera-
tion for both the pet and the recipient.

1. If you’re giving a pet to a child outside
your own family, don’t suddenly spring it
on an unsuspecting family. Be sure the
child wants and is ready for a pet; that the
parents approve; that the household is
equipped to handle a pet; that it’s the kind
of pet wanted. Give a good book on pet care
along with the animal.

2. If the pet is for your own family, get
a good book on pets and their care before
you shop for the animal. Bone up on how
to choose a pet, its feeding, grooming, symp-
toms of illnesses, house training, etc.

3. As a rule, children under ﬁve are not
ready for a live pet. Handling of pets by
older children should be supervised.

4. Dogs make ideal pets for children, but
young puppies can’t fend for themselves.
Get a dog at least six months old.

5. When choosing a pet at a pet shop,
kennel or humane society, take into consid-
eration the size, breed, disposition of the
animal, the size of your home or apartment
and the age of the children. Small (but not
tiny) to medium size dogs are best for chil-
dren. Pick a healthy, active animal. If you
choose a female, consider having her spayed
to prevent unwanted puppies.

A live Christmas gift should not be placed
under the tree or in a stocking. Bring the pet
home a few days before or a few days after
the hectic holiday rush.

rules for giving pets for Christmas

6. Don’t hang the animal up in a stock-
ing or even pack him in a box under the
tree. Bring the pet home a few days before
Christmas so he can adjust before the hectic
days. Or bring him home afterwards when
he will have sheer undivided attention.

7. Prepare the children for the arrival of
the pet. Tell them the tail is not the leash.

8. Prepare a place ahead of time, where
the pet will be kept. Buy feeding dishes, a
bed, etc., beforehand.

9. Introduce the pet into the household
in an atmosphere of calm. Don’t let the chil-
dren fondle him too much the ﬁrst day. Let
him adjust gradually to his new home.

10. Teach your children how to handle
pets. Teach them kindness and considera-
tion in dealing with animals.

 

 

 

  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
   




   

 

 

 

 

 

To help answer frequently asked questions the Question House has hung murals of these tables on its walls.
LIFE SPANS MAXIMUM WEIGHTS GESTATION PERIODS

Elephant ............ 60 years Blue whale ........ 150 tons Elephant ............ 21 months
Tortoise ............ 177 years African elephant 8 tons Giraffe .............. 14 months
Macaw .............. 43 years Horse ............. 3,150 pounds Zebra ............... 12 months
Chimp .............. 35 years Gorilla ............. 638 pounds Chimp .............. 71/2 months
Giraffe .............. 28 years Ostrich ............ 300 pounds Tiger ............... 31/2 months
Ostrich .............. 26 years Lion .............. 580 pounds Cow ................ 91/2 months
Tiger ............... 21 years Raccoon ........... 49 pounds Horse ............... 11 months
Mouse .............. 3 years, Shrew ............. 1/5 ounce Dog ................ 2 months

3 months Hummingbird 1/15 ounce Rabbit .............. 1 month
Mayfly .............. 24 hours Cat ................. 2 months

 

 

 

But myths die hard. Over and over again
the Question House staff, all trained zoolo-
gists, hear these fallacies: Ostriches hide
their heads in the sand. Porcupines throw
their quills. Hippos sweat blood. Nighting-
ales sing only at night. Untrue, all of them!

One upstate New Yorker was convinced
that it was dangerous to go swimming in
country creeks after May because copper-
heads rolled on the bottom shedding their
skins. A small boy believed that swamp
rabbits swim on their backs and use their
ears as oars. One Visitor wanted to know
whether it was true that when a man-eating
tiger eats a man, it adds another stripe.

Since the Question House opened in 1945
about 800,000 children and adults have vis-
ited the little one-room building in the cen-
ter of the Bronx Zoo.

“At ﬁrst we were delighted,” says Mr.
Knobloch wryly, “when a youngster strolled
in and with the eager enthusiasm of his age
began to ﬁre questions with machine gun
rapidity. We congratulated ourselves on this
opportunity to help a little mind unfold.
Over the years, though, we came to realize
we were just an easy way of doing home-
work.”

But in general children do ask concrete
and sensible questions, mainly about large
animals like elephants, giraffes and lions.
Often a small boy will come in carrying a
mysterious object in a glass jar, tin can or
handkerchief and ask to have it identified.

Adults are pretty curious about animals,
too, as indicated by the thousands of mail
and telephone inquiries from all over the

country from teachers, doctors, artists, mag-
azines and newspapers.

“We always know when there’s a contest
in progress,” says the Bronx Zoo’s Answer
Man. “A few years ago we were swamped
with thousands of telephone calls within a
period of a few months when four contests
involving animal identiﬁcation were going
on at once. To simplify our answering pro—
cedure all the zoo’s curators got together,
worked out the puzzles and we left a set
of answers at the switchboard.”

“Many times,” recalls Mr. Knobloch, “we
are asked to settle a family or ofﬁce dispute.
One telephone call came from a bar in St.
Louis where patrons were engaged in a
heated argument. The caller wanted to
know: How do skunks stand each other?

To help answer frequently asked ques-
tions the Question House has hung huge
murals of these tables on its walls:

Herbert Knobloch answers a tough one.
New York Zoological Society

 

 
   
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   




 

did several other packing houses. The Thor
tool was declared workable. It only remained
for animal welfare organizations to stamp it
as humane.

The ASPCA is one of the ﬁrst such organ-
izations to recognize the merits of this latest
pain-saving device in the killing of food
animals. We are pleased to honor with the
Hopkins Award the men who developed and
tested this stunner.

This is the fourth time the Hopkins Award
is being made. In 1953 it went to George A.
Hormel, of Austin, Minnesota, for improve-
ment in the slaughter of hogs. Oscar Mayer
and Company, of Madison, Wisconsin, re-
ceived it in 1954 in recognition of its use
of the captive bolt pistol in slaughtering
cattle. The Remington Arms Co., Inc., of
Bridgeport, Connecticut, won the award in
1956 for development of the Remington
Humane Stunner.

 

Thor Power Tool Co.

A compact air compressor can power up to

tour Thor stunners at once at little cost.

HUBBARD P. DOG soz:
1/0311, ane'e’o speak
7?)! myself m‘-. . .
1220.9! 1 ye are 120i as
loeuaeJous as].
MoroThan 25 MILLION
Dogs Want A Hambono
scented ‘ NYLABONE’
Pooch PaeitiorOtduPont
Nylon For CHRIQTMAQ-
.. .90! 011/ $4le

(MAI/£7 /P£’QP[£’ QW/VED
BY [/S’DQQSQ €312 Qeli’ﬁem For [1.9 /

BOVED 8V VETERINAQIANQ

AS COMVLETELV SACE roe 0069
@3909v LEADING VENNELs,

385%th HOSPITALS ANDUUMANE
ggNECICIAI. room CLEANING é

GUME EQCI IMQE No TOOT TH

GANA QAVE Does LIVES ....\NILL
SAVE VQWEQTY DCSTQUCTION
mo STOMACU UPSETS .No

QAQQAQSINET \lOMl'l'ING'.
NO COSTLV SUQG EQV

NYLABONE I! PROVEN least costly for
dogs to chew on— . . .in the. long run!

*KWPZIEKAREKA’QPT/ S’ee your nearest
dealer Zoe? y [o arr/014’ alreappomfmg YQZIP ebg/

MANUFACTURED E- GUARANTEED BY

NYLABONE

CORPORATION ..
P.O. Box722I2 OklaltomuCityIZ, Okla .,

 

Many have done it by buying -
stocks of leading companies on a
budget plan for as little as $40
every 3 months.

Write for Budget Plan booklet

THOMSON 81 McKINNON

11 Wall Street, New York
Members New York Stock Exchange

 

 

 

 

Manufacturers

of the most complete line
at dog and cat toys

® and accessories

Nationally known for
quality and workmanship

 

 

 




 

:szW/sz/IH

I .

1/ .ﬂ .. 12/ #r/ .
w. own/u. £72.», 5/
z . ”7

. z

:1.
1. /
«Ix/{Of .
4?. Ago/”z. .31
.z

tutor $351,

resusci

  

”1/26?”

 

- 7204907"

1267'

anesthet

HOSPITAL
NEEDS

 




BETTER THAN
" A BONE!

A bone is good but it
doesn’t compare with
complete dog foods like
Big Red Meal and Big Red
Pellets.

Why? A bone is high in
protein and minerals, low

in energy ingredients.

Big Red is right in every-
thing a dog needs.

Seven different Big Red
foods at your G.L.F. store
. . . or write:

BIG RED . Box 343
Canandaigua, N. Y.

BIG RED
DOG FOODS

 

 

 

P I O N E E R
FENCE CO., INC.

Installations and Repairs

 

SPECIALIZING IN DOG RUNS AND
ENCLOSURES

MATERIALS AND INSTRUCTIONS
SUPPLIED FOR DO-lT-YOURSELF

Free Estimates - Free Delivery
O

430 PAYNE STREET
DAyton 3-2559

BRONX. N. Y.

 

 

 

 

in 1956. The Remington Humane Stunner
works on a different principle from the cap-
tive bolt pistol. A mushroom-shaped head
knocks the cattle unconscious instantly and
painlessly, but does not penetrate the skull,
as does the captive bolt pistol. This leaves
the headskin and brain intact, an economic
factor since they are sold as by-products.

The stunning instrument is actuated by a
22-caliber blank cartridge specially designed
for the purpose. Similar to a polo mallet in
appearance, the nine-pound tool is lightly
tapped against the animal’s forehead, and a
protruding mechanism ﬁres the Stunner
automatically, whereas the captive bolt pistol
is hand-triggered.

The Remington Humane Stunner

Remington developed the Humane Stun-
ner with the assistance of John C. Macfar-
lane, a humane movement leader who has
fought for the adoption of painless slaughter
methods for 30 years. Remington won the
Hopkins award in 1956 for what the cita-
tion called “the greatest advance in slaugh-
tering methods ever made in the history of
the United States.”

Some 200 packers are now using the Rem-
ington Humane Stunner, which costs about
$240. Since mid-1957 Swift and Co. has
been slaughtering cattle with the tool in all
38 of its plants.

The new humane slaughter law does not
apply to poultry, 200 million of which are
slaughtered annually. But indications are
that many poultry companies will voluntarily
begin using the electric knife now available
and approved by humane societies. The in-
strument acts as a stunner when tapped on
the fowl’s head, then as a slaughtering in-
strument when inserted into the throat.

Thus the whole picture of slaughtering
food animals for the tables of American
consumers is suddenly brighter. Prospects
are that within a short time the United
States, so shamefully barbaric until now,
may well overtake the rest of the world, much
of which has been practicing humane
slaughter for years.




 

“ Miami-bound cat oc-
cupies one of the 40
individual kennels
for small animals.
All comforts of
home, including a
scratching post, are

provided.

  
       
       
       
     
     
  
  
  
   
  
  

Resident Manager George F. Bauer, former ‘
New York Mounted Policeman and medical
student, welcomes a Gl’s dog from Germany.

Douglas F. Humphrey

Porcupines from Equador spend
the night before moving on to a
mid-west zoo.

Young gorilla bound for Miami is
spoon fed from a baby food iar.
More monkeys are handled than
any other animal.

 
 
 

 

Birds are housed in
temperature - control-
led room. Rates for
boarding, feeding
and exercising range
from 50 cents a day
for a crate of birds
to $2 for a small dog
and $7 for a horse.

   
 
   
   
     
   
   
   
   
  




 

Puss ’n Boots gives complete nutrition
— produces quick results

Whole-fish formula builds robust vigor in cats of all ages

Your pet will thrive on a regular feeding of
Puss ’n Boots. Because Puss ’n Boots is made
from whole ﬁsh—Nature’s perfect food for cats.
It supplies all the nutrients cats of all ages are
known to need, makes all other dietary supple-
ments unnecessary.

Puss ’n Boots supplies abundant protein for
strength and energy . . . calcium for sound teeth

 

How the Natural life Balance of
WHOLE FISH is Retained in Puss ’n Boots

Costly Fillets, rich in es- liver and Glands,formin-

 

sential, high-quality pro-
teins. Usually reserved for
human consumption, re-
tained in Puss ’n Boors.

  

erals and vitamins. Vital
for health. Often extrac-
ted for medicinal use, but
retained in Puss ’11 Boots.

Bone Structure, for valuable calcium and phosphorus.
Made crumbly and digestible and always retained 1n

Puss ’n Boots.

 

 

and strong bones . . . vitamins and minerals for
soft, sleek fur. Tasty cereals are added for regu-
larity, plus a bonus of extra Vitamin B1 for appe-
tite and good digestion.

Regular feeding of Puss ’n Boots can produce
deﬁnite, noticeable results in just three weeks or
less. Available at food and pet stores everywhere.

Packed in 8-02. and 15-02. sizes.

PUSSh
BOOTS

Fine quality makes it America’s
largest-selling cat food.

Coast Fisheries Division of The Quaker Oats Company, Chicago 54. Illinois

 

 

 

 




your dog needs

ALPO

100% MEAT

meat, good meat. . .chunks, not chopped.

  
   
 
 

Not a speck of cereal filler in ALPO.
Just fragrant wholesome

meat. . . in chunks. ALPO.

 

 

 

REALOCK . n . ' ‘
FENCE

security
for animals

Protection and security for your
pets—in a kennel, around the home
or at animal shelters—are economi-
cally assured with Realock Chain
Link Fence. The weather resistant
galvanized steel (or aluminum) fab-
ric and framework keep unwanted
persons away and animals safe.
Available in a variety of heights
and sizes.

  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
  

For a free estimate, additional in-
formation and quick service, consult
your classiﬁed telephone directory
or write our nearest ofﬁce.

THE COLORADO FUEL AND IRON
CORPORATION
Denver and Oakland

   

WICKWIRE SPENCER STEEL DIVISION [FLI THE COLORADO FUEL AND IRON CORPORATION
BUHOIO, New York BRANCHES IN ALL KEY CITIES 6464

16

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

WHY NOT GIVE A
LIVING GIFT?

If you are thinking of helping others why
not make a Christmas donation of an

AXE-Houghton Fund

There is probably one that would be
ideal for the purpose:

THE
AXE-HOUGHTON
@ FUNDS: “A"
‘48"
“STOCK"

 

.6 AXE SCIENCE
590? & ELECTRONICS
CORPORATION

 

AXE-TEMPLETON GROWTH
FUND OF CANADA, LTD.

 

For Free Information Send Letter or Post-Card to:

AXE SECURITIES CORPORATION

TARRYTOWN, N. Y.

OIL SKIN’ RAINCOAT

Personalized with dog's own name
Sizes IO-IZ-I4-I6-I8-20
measure tail to neck
lnches

 

 

 

  
 

$2 postpaid

JO DO SPECIALTY 00., INC.
389 Fifth Ave., New York

When Considering the Purchase of a

CHEVROLET

you can depend on “East Side" for
: the ultimate in value and service.

EASTSIDE
CHEVROLET

Ist AVE. at 6'lst ST. ° TE 8-9000
Open Daily ’til 9 — Sat. ’til 6
FREE PARKING

l_—

20

    

 

 

   
 
 
  

 

ASPCA Advice Leads to
Brazil Animal Ruling

Thanks to recommendations made by the
ASPCA, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, recently re-
stricted the use of animals for the amuse-
ment of children in public squares.

The ruling emerged from correspondence
between Lya Cavalcanti, Secretary General
of, the Sociedade Unaio lnternacional Prote-
tora dos Animais, the Brazilian humane so-
ciety, and ASPCA General Manager Warren
W. McSpadden.

Last January Miss Cavalcanti sought the
ASPCA’s advice on legislation to curb the
use of horses, sheep and goats used to pull
carts loaded with children in Rio de Janeiro
parks and public squares. According to Miss
Cavalcanti the animals were overloaded, im-
properly fed, and worked too many hours.
Her society was introducing a bill to ban
such abuses and requested suggestions on
points which should be included in the bill.

Mr. McSpadden recommended:

0 Use of only lightweight cars.

0 Limit of two young children, or a maxi-
mum payload of 100 to 125 pounds.

0 Use of only well-fed, healthy animals.

0 A 7 or 8 hour day with 10 to 15 minute
rest periods every hour.

0 No whipping, beating or prodding.

0 Protection against sun or winter cold.

0 Water available at all times.

0 Provision for ﬁnes for violations.

These suggestions were translated, pub-
licized and distributed among Brazilian
legislators and ofﬁcials. So effective was the
campaign that in July, even before any
special legislation was passed, the Mayor
of Rio de Janeiro issued an order banning
carts pulled by goats and sheep. The order
also banned carts pulled by horses and po-
nies from the streets, restricting them to
public parks.

Needless to say, the ASPCA is proud of

this latest example of its international scope
and inﬂuence.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

  
 

ll ii
. 5‘.

 

 

{n

      

“I judge AUSTIN'S best of feed!"

Austin’s All-In-One is laboratory-tested by experts, kennel-maven
by champions. That’s how you know it’s got the right amounts of
essential food ingredients in the right proportion! It’s baked . . . it’s
super-convenient and economical, too — contains 3 times the food
value of canned dog food at 1/2 the price!

A PRODUCT OF SZIIZSAZhE 513671225, INC.

Champion Miss Hl H0

AKC-H-442866

 

 

BITE CASE REGULATIONS

A New York City law (Section 10 of the
New York Sanitary Code) requires as a
matter of public health and safety that any
animal accused of biting a person must be
examined by a Department of Health veter-
inarian, or by a private veterinarian of the
owner’s choice.

The ASPCA has no jurisdiction whatever
in examining the animal or in deciding its
disposition. We provide, without expense to
the City or to the pet owner, a space in each
borough shelter where the Department of
Health veterinarian may examine biting ani-
mals. We also provide facilities for holding
animals for observation. Owners who have
their animals examined by private veteri-
narians do so at their own expense, at the

veterinarian’s establishment.

Only the examining veterinarian has the
authority to determine the disposition of
the animal. He may release it for future ex-
amination or he may hold it for observation.

Any animal which has bitten a person or
various persons on three separate occasions,
with or without provocation, within a 24
month period, where the bite in each instance
was of sufﬁcient severity so that medical
treatment was required by the person bitten,
must be turned over to the Department of
Health by the owner and be destroyed on
the order of the Department.

Any inquiries about bite cases should be
referred to the Department of Health, Divi-
sion of Dog Bites.

 

 

All dogs in New York City, regardless of age, must be licensed annually.
Licenses are $3 and can be obtained at the ASPCA shelter in your borough.

 

 

24

 




 

Lost Dogs

> My husband always says men should be as
promptly commended for a good job as fried for
a poor job. Well, the assistance, cooperation and
sympathetic understanding exhibited by your
Queen’s Shelter Staff in helping locate my missing
dog requires the prompt commendation recom-
mended by my husband.

MRS. THOMAS C. KADIEN
Elmhurst, L. I.

b . . . my gratitude to you for all you have
tried to do to recover my dog. When one goes be-
yond the basic requirements of one’s job and
extends himself in innumerable ways to assist those
who require assistance, he becomes more than a
dedicated public servant. He becomes a rarity in
these days of indifference.

MRS. BURNETT
Bronx, N. Y.

A Dog in the Philippines

> My daughter’s grandfather has sent us a copy
of ANIMAL PROTECTION which she has enjoyed
looking at very much. Here in Sagada dogs are
kept for only two reasons: as watch dogs, as our
Morty is, or for food—dog meat is a regular part
of the Igorot diet. Philippine dogs here in the
mountains are not as tame as those in the U. S.
and live mostly on what they can ﬁnd to eat;
though we feed ours sardines, rice and milk. Not
infrequent dog ﬁghts mean sometimes a trip to the
people’s hospital for sulfa or the like. No ASPCA
here.

MRS. GEORGE C. HARRIS

The Mission of St. Mary the Virgin

Philippines

Children Tour Animalport

> We sincerely thank you for your kind hospi-
tality in explaining and showing us around the
Animalport. The children greatly enjoyed the ani-
mals, especially the tiger. I think they would like
him for a pet.

SISTER M. ANGELICA

Our Lady of Mercy Camp

Mt. Vernon, N. Y.

Bouquets for the Hospital

> . . . appreciation to your hospital for your
kindness and patience in advising me from time to
time about my dog Suzee, the Irish Terrier who
was so emaciated when I ﬁrst brought her to the
ASPCA. Her condition was due, you will recall,
to diabetes. The family and I are indeed grateful
to you for making it possible to have our dog, which
we naturally love, with us a while longer.

JOHN J. MORAN
Valley Stream, L. I.

> An injured stray cat dropped from a height
into a airwell. I tried to make the small black and
white cat comfortable until the arrival of the
ASPCA ambulance. The young man who came
was grave, digniﬁed and kind. We were all made
less anxious by his manner and actions.

When I telephoned about the cat, thinking I
might ﬁnd a home for it, the man who answered
my questions was also kind and understanding.
I was told that internal injuries were being cared
for in your clinic.

This whole transaction was, I am sure, a matter
of daily routine with your efficient organization,
but the way I was reassured was as comforting
as the information was. I know the hurt and
frightened little cat is in good hands, is being
cured, has a chance of being adopted.

JUDITH E. HYDE
New York, N. Y.

Adoption Service

> We are all in love with the little puppy we
got from the Brooklyn Shelter. I lived in Brooklyn
for 26 years before moving here. My dog died last
January at the age of 171/2, so we preferred to
bring a dog from the city. We have eight acres
of ground, so he will have a good time.

MRS. AGNES FLUI—IR
Wellsboro, Penna.

> Thank you for your kindness in allowing us
to take the beagle. We will give her a good home.
My husband was very thrilled with her as he’d
wanted one for years.
MRS. J. E. KEARNS
Bronx, N. Y.

 




 

9

 

Law spurs adaption of

HUMANE
SLAUGHTER

METHODS

The humane movement’s 40-year struggle
to relieve the suffering of animals slaughtered
for food purposes was brought to a success-
ful climax last August when the President
signed the country’s ﬁrst humane slaughter
law.

Introduced in the Senate by Senator Hu-
bert H. Humphrey, Minnesota, and in the
House by Representative W. R. Poage, Texas,
the legislation was passed after the largest
avalanche of mail ever sent to Congress.

The law calls for slaughter which renders
“animals insensible to pain by a single blow
or gunshot or an electrical, chemical or
other means that is rapid and effective be-
fore they are shackled, hoisted, thrown, cast
or cut.”

The law will not go into effect until 1960
and applies only to packers doing business
with the federal government, the nation’s
largest single purchaser ($250 million a
year). But it is expected to insure a more

humane death for 117 million of the 130

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Remington Arms Co.
An operator taps the Remington Humane
Stunner against a steer’s head and a mush-
room-shaped knob is driven forward with
tremendous impact, rendering the animal
quickly and painlessly unconscious.

million food animals slaughtered in the Uni-
ted States each year, since most of the large
meat packers bid on government contracts.
Before the law’s passage 18 packers out of
some 3,000 had already adopted humane
slaughter methods in most of their opera-
tions. Several more have since converted,
and it is apparent that others, even those
not engaged in federal government business,

 

l N D E X

Humane Slaughter Methods ...... 1 Free Examination for ASPCA Pets. 18 Our Hospital Needs ............. 23
Stunner Wins Hopkins Award _____ 5 Good News for Parakeets ....... 18 Bite Case Regulations ........... 24
Airmail Special Delivery ......... 8 10 Rules for lemg Pets $350 Million for Dog Food ....... 25

_ _ l _ 10 for Christmas ............... 19 Products and SerVIces ........... 26
Wh'mS'Ca Mr. Pengum """"" ASPCA Helps Animals in Brazil... 20 Letters .......................
The Bronx 200 3 Answer Man ----- 14 A Slavic Christmas Legend ....... 21 Happiest Dog in Yonkers
Above and Beyond the Call ...... 17 In the Dog House .............. 22 Inside Back Cover

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
    
  
   
   
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
   
   
     




THE ﬁrst successful air-powered animal
stunner to be used in meat slaughtering
operations has won for its inventors and
manufacturer the ASPCA’S James HOpkins
Award for the humane slaughter of food
animals.

The Thor stunner is an automatic, re-
peater-type penetrating tool which humanely
stuns cattle prior to slaughter.

The instrument climaxes two and a half
years of collaboration between the Thor
Power Tool Company, Donald Willems, with
13 years experience in the meat packing
industry, and mechanical designer Henry
Spitzley. It was rigidly tested over a long
period by Armour and Company, for which

HUMANE SLAUGHTER STUNNER
WINS JAMES HOPKINS AWARD

Donald Willems holds Thor stunner he helped
develop for the humane stunning of cattle.

    
   
  
    
  
  
  
   
 
  
 
   
    
   
   
    
     
 
   
   
   
   
    
 
    
 
   
 
 
    

 

Mr. Willems is a traveling supervisor of live-
stock handling and care.

The Hopkins award will be a four-way
prize, to be presented at the ASPCA Annual
Meeting at the Hotel Pierre, on May 26,
1959. Cash awards of $1,000 each will be
presented to inventors Willems and Spi'tzley.
Silver plaques will go to Thor and Armour.

Funds for the awards come from a special
bequest to the ASPCA by James Hopkins,
who designated that it be used speciﬁcally
to reward outstanding improvements in hu-
mane slaughtering methods.

Stuns Instantly

The four-part award is being made on the
recommendation of ASPCA’s General Man-
ager Warren W. McSpadden, who observed
and photographed the Thor stunner in oper-
ation at the Armour packing plant in Chi-
cago. He was impressed by its instant stun-
ning action, resulting in a minimum of fright
and suffering on the part of the animal.

A metal pin one half inch in diameter is
driven into the animal’s medulla oblongata
(the brain nerve center), producing instan-
taneous unconsciousness. The tool is powered
by air pressure from a compact compressor
which can operate four stunners at once.

Weighing less than eight pounds, the in-
strument itself ‘can be handled easily with
two hands, and is virtually recoilless, an im-
portant safety factor for the operator. Equally
important from the packer’s standpoint is the

Thor Power Tool Co.

 
 




     
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  

Modern Pegasus ﬂies from Europe in
padded plane compartment, may race
at Santa Anita the next day. Most ex-

pensive single animal handled was a
$94,000 thoroughbred. .

Pictures by Warren W. McSpadden

AIRMAIL
SPECIAL DELIVERY

When the ASPCA Animalport at New York International Airport opened

, last January, we knew we could expect the unexpected. Now, some 20,000 ani-
mals later, we know we were right.

[‘34—‘54 A

E

The round-the-clock staff has learned that animals can create a crisis at a
moment’s notice. Once bedlam reigned for three hours when a monkey got
loose and ran around opening doors on other cages to let his pals out.

The home away from home for animals in transit has boarded dogs, gorillas,

horses, hyenas, hogs, bulls, storks, tigers, skunks, pandas, Cheetahs, lizards, chin-
chillas, cobras, porcupines, rabbits and sea lions, among others.

 

Loading platforms transfer cattle from shelter
pens to trucks and then to planes. Animalport
handles whole herds of farm animals at once,
most bound for underprivileged countries. .

Where do storks come from? These
came from Brussels, ended up in a New
York pet shop. '

   

    

 
   
     

”Lunch is served,’ and five hogs get their share. A variety
'of foods is always on hand to satisfy all appetites.




Never Underestimate a Cut

Your last number mentions certain “help-
ful’7 cats as being something unusual. (“Of
Cats and Service,” Fall 1958) Cats are al-
ways interested and helpful if one is engaged
in catching ﬁsh (I knew this as a small
boy), but I wish to cite my last cat, a
rakish and charming waif named Parker,

who adopted me some years ago.

He would get me up in the morning and
put me to bed at night (just because he
wanted to get up or to go to bed — but dogs
do this too). He was exceptionally fond of
ﬂowers (like Ferdinand the Bull), and would
take great pleasure in helping me pick them.
His favorites were nasturtiums, and a nastur-
tium is carved on his gravestone.

But he liked to help me with stringbeans
too, clawing them out from the bushes and
biting off the pods for me to pick up. This
was more successful than his attempts with
nasturtiums, which are rather delicate.

Of his other tastes and accomplishments
during his brief life—he would not only
try to play duets with me on the piano, but
lean back in an armchair like a dowager in
an opera box to enjoy sym-

Former ASPCA Staff Member
Compiles Essays on Cats
Frances E. Clarke, former ASPCA Direc-

tor of Humane Education, has added another
anthology to her collections inspired by cats,
horses and dogs. For “Of Cats and Men,”
published by Macmillan Company ($3.95),
she has compiled writings on the cat by 25
distinguished authors, all of them men.

Included are essays and poems by William
Lyon Phelps, Carl Van Vechten, Samuel L.
Clemens, Hillaire Beloc, Damon Runyon,
Elmer Davis, Roy Chapman Andrews, Paul
Gallico, W. B. Yeats, T. S. Eliot, Walter de la
Marc and Christopher Morley.

The beautiful volume is illustrated with 16
full-page drawings and 27 black and white
sketches. All the illustrations are reproduc-
tions of masterpieces of feline art, including
one by Manet, secured by Miss Clarke from
museums, art galleries and private collections.

We’re happy to recommend Miss Clarke’s
latest anthology as a perfect book to own
and a perfect book to give — especially as a
Christmas present to the ailurophiles among
your friends.

 

phonic music—I shall write
perhaps some day at length.

The ads say, “Do not un-
derestimate the power of a
woman,” or something like
that, but I could well substi-
tute the word CAT. 1 am not

SEND TODAY FOR
SORIANO CERAMICS’

Tabby 7",“

 

 

BY MAIL—so many ways to grace
your home with Feline Beauty.

These beautiful 6’.’ x 6" glazed tiles make
striking decorations. hot plates, tile
walls, table tops, etc. In dramatic black
and white, with eyes in colors faithful

to breeds. Individually b0xed, with felt
back and hanger. Guaranteed. $2.00 ea.,
any selection (mix or match) 6 for $9.95.
Order now!

Write today for FREE illustrated CAT-clog C-AS
showing these same designs complete as:

0 Bookends 0 letter Holders 0 Trlvets
0 Framed Tiles ' Pin-up lamps

  

ashamed to say, since I could
do nothing about it, that he
completely ruled me for a year.

A Keats-and-Mozart cat, to
be sure, plus something of
John Burroughs or Luther
Burbank, and, socially, a
Richard Harding Davis hero
with (it must be admitted)
a dash of George Ade.

— EDWARD STEESE

  
   

All 6
for $9.95

 

To get your Tabby Tiles by return mail,
send cashteh'eck or money order to;

SORIANO CERAMKS Long Island City. 5,, N. Y.

 

 

 

13

 




 

ABOVE
AND
BEYOND
THE
CALL . . .

Medal of Honor Awards
For Outstanding Bravery

Policemen Receive Medals
The ASPCA recently conferred its Medal

of Honor and Certiﬁcate of Merit on four
members of the New York Police Depart-
ment who rescued a number of‘animals
trapped in a pet shop during a ﬁre. In
ceremonies at Police Headquarters the honors
were presented by Police Commissioner
Stephen P. Kennedy to Sergeant Peter Spe-
ranza and Patrolmen Robert Peppard, Henry
Farley and Ellery Hunt, of the 110th Pre-
cinct.

The men were on radio patrol duty in
Jackson Heights, Queens, at 4:40 a.m. when
the ﬁre alarm was sounded. They sped to
the scene. As 50 ﬁremen fought a two-alarm
blaze in a row of stores along Northern
Boulevard, the policemen ran into the burn-
ing pet shop and carried the birds, dogs and
cats to safety.

German Shepherd Cited

A German Shepherd dog named Macok
was awarded the ASPCA’s Medal of Honor
recently for saving his owner from at-
tackers. lstvan Ficsor, superintendent of an
apartment building in Manhattan, was
awakened at 3:50 a.m. by the crashing of
garbage cans. When he went outside to in-
vestigate he was jumped by three hoodlums.
Mr. Ficsor called for his dog Macok, Who
jumped to the rescue. The thugs ran to the
roof of the six-story building where the dog
held them at bay until police arrived.

Three Firemen Honored

Three New York City ﬁremen were cited
for rescuing two dogs in a ﬁre which
wrecked a Brooklyn tenement. The medals
were presented by Fire Commissioner Ed-

ward F. Cavanagh.

Fireman Alfonso A. Soriento found an
unconscious dog on the third ﬂoor and car-
ried it to a second ﬂoor ﬁre escape land-
ing. He handed the dog to Fireman Vincent
M. Clancy, who carried the animal down the
ﬁre-escape to the street. The dog was later
revived.

Fireman Bernard F. Ruege, after rescu-
ing Mrs. Theresa Grant from her ﬂaming
fourth-ﬂoor apartment, carried her dog
Brownie down a ladder to safety.

 

 

3:15 E ii-

 

MALTZ GR

     
 

MEMBERS NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE
MEMBERS AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE
MONTHLY INVESTMENT PLAN
MUTUAL FUNDS - PORTFOLIO ANALYSIS
COMPLETE BROKERAGE SERVICE

    

 

EENWALD

MIDTOWN AREA

 

  

& co.

   

 

 

4Ist ST. 8: BROADWAY
1441 BROADWAY, N.Y.c., ILY.

CHickering 4-0343

 

 

17

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

The Horse, the OX, the Mule and the
Coat stood near the manger in which Mary
laid her Babe. She gathered the hay from
the far corners of the stable to make a com-
fortable bed for the Infant.

As soon as Mary deposited her handfuls
of hay, ‘the selﬁsh Horse ate them until at
last the Child was almost lying on bare
boards. Finally Mary said, “You never-sat-
isﬁed Horse, you and all your progeny will
always be hungry and. you will forevermore
serve and help mankind as he goes about
his daily tasks.”

The 0x heard Mary’s words and picked
up huge mouthfuls of hay which he depos-
ited in the manger and blew his breath upon
the Christ Child. He whispered to Mary that
the Cow had asked to be excused as she also
had become a mother that day and desired
to present the Calf to the Babe. Mary said,
“You the patient Ox, and she, the willing
Cow, for your unselﬁshness, shall forever-

 

    
   
  
  
  
 
   
   
  
   
  
   
  
  
  
  
   
   
  

more enjoy your food so much that you
will chew it again and again, and the Cow
will have a Calf every year.”

The Mule laughed loud and Mary asked,
“Why are you laughing?” The Mule an-
swered, “I was amused that the Cow was
to calf every year.” To which Mary said,
“Because you ridiculed the Cow and her
baby Calf, you shall never, never know the
joy of having young of your own.”

One would have thought that the Goat
would have learned a lesson, but no—the
Coat bleated in the Christ Child’s ear and
gave Him no chance to sleep. “From this
hour,” Mary said, “your tremulous, pitiful
laugh will always be irritating to people.
Your milk will be insipid and men will use
it only for making cheese.”

80 this explains Why the Horse is a servant
of Man, why the Cow chews her cud, why
the Mule is sterile, and why the Goat’s voice
is so hideous.

21

 

 

 




 

 

$350 Million for Dog Food

“If humans could eat one balanced food
such as we now feed to our pets, we’d add
years to our life and life to our years.” So
says one dog food company head.

U. S. consumers now spend more for dog
food than baby food. In 1948 owners bought
less than 1 billion pounds; last year they
spent $350 million for 2.1 billion pounds. In
the next ﬁve years sales are due to rise by
30 percent. This prediction is made by Time
magazine, which paid the Nielsen service to

dig up these facts on dog food consumption.

In ten years of more money and suburban
living, U. S. dogs have increased 35 percent
to 26 million; more than 40 percent of U. S.
homes have one or more.

As a supplement to table scraps, dog
owners have bought pet food ever since the
late 1920’s, when Gaines Meal ﬁrst sold its
dry mix of meat and grain and Ken-L-
Ration produced a canned horsemeat mix-
ture. More dogs are fed by the dry foods,
but more poundage is sold in canned “wet”
varieties. Last year canned dog food outsold
every canned vegetable, and used more tin
cans than any other product outside of oil
and beer, says Time.

The real upsurge began after World War
II, when food prices began to soar, and
housewives grew cautious about overbuying.
The leftovers got skimpier, were hoarded in
the freezer instead of fed to pets. It was
also a lot easier and cheaper to open a box
or can of dog food. (Dog food prices have
fallen 12 percent since 1953, although people
food prices have risen 8 percent.)

A new line of prescription diets in cans is
available for overweight dogs, for older dogs,
kidney sufferers and protein-hungry mothers.
One company is coming out with such vary-
ing dishes as whale meat, hash and eggs. All
the big canners have big experimental ken-
nels where they constantly check their for-
mulas on kennels of ﬁne dogs.

PEDIGREED DOGS

 

Beautiful Black and Silver Gray
Puli Puppies from
Championship Stock

Cedwood Kennels

Owner, Ellanor Anderson
1166 Burlington Avenue Bristol, Connecticut

      

 

From the bright
and sunny SKYES—of

GLAMOOR
KENNELS

WALTER F. GOODMAN

340 E. 52nd Street

New York 22, N. Y.
EL 5-4162

 

 

CH. SNOWMAN de BEAU MAR at Stud.

in Show winning 9- inch
Toyt Poodle. Proven sire of
quality whites and c.reams
$2 2,00 to approved bitches
only. Rated among top 10 toy
dogs for 1957 and only toy
dog to go best i7n show in

Canada for 19: Choice
puppies availab
MRS. L. G. 1eMEYERS

El Gem Kennels
Box 214, Pine Bush, N. Y.
N. Y. City Phone MU 4-2121

MINIATURE SCHNAUZERS

GLOSTER’S .:
GABLES '

At stud to -
approved
bitches:

CH. DESTINY '
0F LEDAHOF

(Ch. Dorem
Display ex
Ch.

 

    

GLOnSTER'S GILROY GABLE
Ow -.MRS GLORIA A. STORCH
Enchantress) 113 Outchess Blvd” Atlantic Beach, N. Y.
Tel s.: (NYO) CE 9- 0018; ES 6- 1921; FR 1- 1383

IRADELL KENNELS

Breeders and Importers
FINEST TYPES OF SKYE TERRIERS ALSO TOY POODLES
AND AUSTRALIAN SILKY TERRIERS
O
Mrs. N. Clarkson Earl, Jr. John J. Keyes
Owner
Ridgeﬁeld, Conn.
Walter c. Foster, handler

Manager
Idlewood 8-3400

 

SHELTIE PUPPIES (”somHES'fHT

GOLDEN MAHOGANY and RED SABLES

0 Full White Markings. Champion Pedigrees.

0 Excellent Type.

O Friendly, Healthy, Good Companions.

0 Serum Distemper Inoculated. Reasonably Priced.

ALSO SAMOYED 8: KEESHOND PUPPIES

MRS. W. VAN PELT DAVIS

MOUNT SINAI LONG ISLAND, N. Y.
Phone: POrt Jefferson 8-2695W

 

 

GERMAN SHEPHERDS OF QUALITY

Good Bone Structure. Good Temperament, Con-
formity and Coat. for Show or Obedience.

WILLANA KENNELS

1508 Burnett Ave. Union-A, New Jersey

 

25

 

 




 




will fall in line. The American Meat Insti-
tute, Whose members slaughter 9O per-cent
of all meat, has pledged rapid conversion.

Making it easier for packers to comply
with the law are a number of approved
humane slaughter methods which have been
around for some time, and a couple of new
ones recently introduced. All of them com-
bine these features:

0 Lower operating costs following expense
of initial conversion.

0 Facility of operation.

0 Comparative safety for the worker, lead-
ing to higher employee morale in a job with
one of the highest accident rates of any
industry.

0 Reduction of wasteful bruises in ani-
mals, estimated to cost the packing industry
$50 million yearly.

° Faster production.

' Conformity to the U. S. Department of
Agriculture Meat Inspection requirement
that no foreign matter be in the brain if it
is to be used for food.

And most important from the point of view
of humane societies and the animals them-
selves, these methods are humane. The tra-
ditional method of rendering cattle uncon-
scious before bleeding them to death was by
hitting them on the head with a sledge ham-
mer. Sometimes a dozen blows were necessary
to put the animal out of its misery.

Carbon-dioxide hog immobilizer in use at
Davenport, Iowa, plant of Oscar Mayer &
Co. Live hogs enter on the left separated
by the vertical gates, emerge unconscious
at the far end of the line and are transferred
to the unit at the right for processing.

Oscar Mayer & Co.

Hogs, sheep, lambs and calves were shack-
led and hoisted by one leg, frequently to be
stuck, scalded and skinned while still con-
scious. Injuries to workers were frequent,
and animals were bruised and battered.

Compare the following painless systems
now available.

The Thor Stunner

The latest humane stunning device is the
Thor stunner, an air-powered cylindrical tool
which knocks cattle unconscious instantly
with a single light tap on the back of the
head. A pin is ﬁred automatically and pen-
etrates the brain with no fright to the animal.
The Thor tool’s inventors and manufacturer
are slated to receive the ASPCA’s James
Hopkins award for improvement in the hu-
mane slaughter of food animals at the Soci-
ety’s Annual Meeting in May. (Details on
page 5.) The instrument has been rigidly
tested and adopted by the Armour plant in
Chicago and several other packers.

In the carbon dioxide process of anesthe-
tizing hogs prior to slaughter the hogs are
walked up ramps in single ﬁle and directed
to a moving conveyor belt which carries
them to a CO2 ﬁlled tunnel. The harmless,
odorless gas is derived from ordinary dry ice.

In seconds each hog drops to sleep and
rides out of the tunnel completely uncon-

“Sleeping” hogs ride out of the carbon
dioxide immobilizing tunnel at the Fremont,
Nebraska, plant of Geo. A. Hormel Co.

The Permutit Co.

 

    

 

 

 

 

 
 
 

 




   

comparatively inexpensive cost of operation.

A law passed last August, to go into effect
in 1960, requires packing plants doing busi-
ness with the U. S. government to render
animals insensible to pain humanely before
they are slaughtered. So the plants are in
the market for tested, practical, humane and
economical methods. The Thor stunner seems
to ﬁll this bill, which should rapidly advance
its acceptance. Although it is now used only
for stunning cattle, it is being adapted for
hogs, calves and lambs.

In cattle stunning the operator stands
above and behind the animal, out of its
vision, and places the stunner against the
back of the head. The pin is ﬁred automatic-
ally and instantaneously penetrates the brain,
with no fright to the animal. A safety lever
prevents accidental ﬁring.

The instrument has a high degree of accu-
racy and one blow is sufficient to stun an
animal. But if that fails the automatic re-
peater feature makes it ready to deliver an
additional blow immediately.

The beginning of the Thor stunner goes

In stunning cattle, the operator stands above
and behind the animal. On contact a pin
penetrates the brain's nerve center, pro-
ducing unconsciousness instantly.

Warren W. McSpadden

back more than two years. For some time the
Joint Humane Slaughter Committee of the
American Meat Institute and the American
Humane Association, of which Mr. McSpad-
den is a member, had been considering com-
pressed air as an economical source of power
for a stunning tool. But any such instrument
was thought to be too unwieldy and therefore
impractical.

Two Years in Research
John W. Rickord, Manager of the Produc-

tion Control Department of Armour, men-
tioned the problem to Donald Willems, a
member of his department. Mr. Willems
called in mechanical designer Henry Spitzley,
who had already patented several successful
inventions. Eventually the pair came up with
a design for a small, lightweight, air-powered
stunning device. Armour tried out the proto-
type, and for the ﬁrst time a pneumatic
stunner worked.

Thor Power Tool Company, of Aurora,
Illinois, the world’s largest manufacturer de-
voted to the production of portable air and
electric power tools, became interested. Neil
C. Hurley, Jr., president of Thor, assigned
the company’s best engineers to work on the
stunner until the present tool was perfected.

Armour tested it in its Chicago plant, as

Closeup shows stunner being placed at back

of animal’s head.
Warren W. McSpadden

 
 
    
   
     
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
   
 
 

 
 
 
 

  




   
  

 

whimsical
mr. penguin

American Navy men in the Antarctic dur-
ing Operation Deepfreeze, the U. S. expedi-
tion participating in the International Geo-
physical Year, tell of a penguin which am-
bled up to investigate a softball game in
progress on the smooth ice. The penguin
soon found the most advantageous spot pos-
sible to watch the game~immediately be-
hind the pitcher. Then he waved his ﬂippers
and craned his neck, as if he were calling
balls and strikes in a big league game.

Nearly everything about these curious,
fun-loving jokers of the South Pole carica-
tures something human. At once the most
human and comical of birds, penguins have
long been a boon to artists and caricaturists.

They resemble nothing so much as well-
dressed little men in formal attire. Their
black backs and white shirt fronts, and
their exaggerated erect posture give them
the appearance of so many diplomats at a
state reception. Their sleek ﬂippers look like
arms in well-pressed, over-long sleeves, hang-
ing at their sides, or being swung in Wide
gestures as they huddle in groups and seem
to talk over among themselves the latest
world crisis.

Slightly Human

The 17 known penguin species range from
the Little Blue Penguin of Australia and
New Zealand, which is about 12 inches tall,
to the digniﬁed Emperor Penguin, more
than three feet tall and weighing 90 pounds.
Although we think of penguins as polar
birds, the Emperor and the whimsical Adélie
are the only two varieties that live on the
bleak wastes of the Antarctic continent.

The others live on islands and barren
coasts in the southern hemisphere as far
north as Australia, South Africa and Peru.

Penguins have many truly human traits.
They are possessive, nosy and sometimes




 

 

 

 

 

THE BRONX ZOO’S ANSWER MAN?
. I

DO monkeys kiss? How many quills in a
porcupine? Is a zebra black with white
stripes or Vice versa?

Hundreds of questions like these, and
some even more bizarre, are asked every
day at the Question House in the Bronx
Zoo, a kind of information center for zoolog-
ical knowledge.

“Every question, no matter how naive
or silly, receives a serious answer,” says
Herbert Knobloch, Associate Curator of Ed-
ucation, who along with two assistants pro-
vides the answers.

“Some questions have been asked so many
times they can be answered on the spot,”
says Mr. Knobloch. “Others demand re-
search. But if there’s an answer, the Ques-
tion House will get it.” For instance, the
questions at the beginning of this article re-
ceived these answers: monkeys probably
don’t kiss; porcupines have about 36,000
quills; zebras are white with black stripes.

The zebra question runs a close second
to the all-time most popular query in the
Queston House’s 13-year history. Most popu-
lar: What is the gestation period of an ele-
phant? (21 months.) It seems people are

 

l 11‘

 

more curious about elephants than any other
animal. They want to know:

How long does an elephant live? (60
years.) Do elephants cry? (No.) Who would
probably win in a ﬁght between an elephant
and a lion? (An elephant.) How many mus-
cles in an elephant’s trunk? (48,000.)

“Somebody counted the muscles years ago
and came up with that figure. Nobody has
demanded a recount, so we continue to give
out that ﬁgure,” says the earnest, youthful-
looking Mr. Knobloch, who has been on the
Bronx Zoo staff for 21 years, except for a
couple of years during World War II when
he taught GI’s how to cope with jungle ani-
mals and snakes at a jungle warfare school.

 

Next to elephants, snakes elicit the most
questions at the Question House. There are
more myths, superstitions and fallacies about
snakes than any other animal. “It’s amaz-
ing,” Mr. Knobloch points out, “how many
people believe that snakes swallow their
young to protect them, or roll like a hoop
or crawl up an elephant’s trunk. If we
can discount one such myth a day, we feel
we’re doing a good job.”




 

 

 

Actress Joan Crawford (right), Chairman,
and Mrs. George Hayman, Chairman of the
Planning Committee, for the Animal Kingdom
Ball to be held January 22 at the Hotel
Pierre to benefit ASPCA’s Adoption Service.

Helping with the plans is Miss Crawford’s
poodle Masterpiece.

Free Examination for
ASPCA Adopted Pets
All animals adopted from the ASPCA are

eligible for a free examination, and advice
at the ASPCA Hospital within a period of

two weeks from the date of adoption.

Last year the Adoption Service placed a
record 17,998 homeless pets in new homes

and we expect that ﬁgure to be even higher
this year.

Although we are careful to put up for
adoption only healthy and sturdy animals,
it is possible that a dog or cat may be har-
boring an ailment which only a professional
examination would reveal. While a two-week
period is alloted in which to take advantage
of this service, it is recommended that
owners have their new pets examined on the
very day of adoption.

To help pay for this free service, the
Women’s Volunteer Division will hold the
ninth annual Animal Kingdom Ball at the
Hotel Pierre on January 22. Actress Joan

Crawford (Mrs. Alfred N. Steele) is chair-

man.

18

   

  

Good News for Parakeets

The millions of Americans who keep par-
akeets for pets—the estimates run between
8,000,000 and 10,000,000—will rejoice in
a victory against a troublesome disease
called psittacosis.

Before the discovery of antibiotics, psit-
tacosis (parrot fever or ornithosis) was un-
treatable, and many bird owners caught the
respiratory disease from their pets. Antihi-
otics helped combat parrot fever, but even
then some cases were reported.

But now, a way has been found to keep
parakeets free of psittacosis merely by feed-
ing them seed treated with the common anti-
biotic aureomycin. The victory belongs to
Virologist Karl F. Meyer, whose discovery
was recently hailed at Stockholm’s Inter-
national Congress of Microbiology, and to
the Hartz Mountain Products Corporation,
makers of bird feed and medications, which

backed Dr. Meyer’s research.

Dr. Meyer has put in 40 years as a spe-
cialist in bird and animal diseases, most of
the time at the University of California’s
Hooper Foundation for Medical Research, of
which he is director emeritus. There he
developed an effective way of keeping para-
keets free of the psittacosis virus by fre-
quent injections of aureomycin. But the
injection method was costly and impractical
for most bird owners.

After three more years of research, Dr.
Meyer came up with an effective way to
impregnate the birds’ feed with an antibi-
otic in a uniform and stable concentration.
Hartz Mountain began marketing the treated
feed in September. According to William
Odenwald, research director of the com-
pany, who worked closely with Dr. Meyer
on the project, his company has spent over
one hundred thousand dollars on the ma-
chines which turn out the treated seed.

The next project, says Mr. Odenwald, is
a medicated feed for table birds, especially
turkeys and ducks, which are also subject to
ornithosis.

  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

Board Member Resigns

With sincere regret the Board of Manag-
ers recently accepted the resignation of Vice-
President Thomas D. Hughes, a Board Mem-
ber since 1948. Widely known and held in
high esteem in business circles, Mr. Hughes
has left New York to head the southern de-
partment of the America Fore-Loyalty
Group, a group of casualty and ﬁre insur-
ance companies. While on the ASPCA Board
he was chairman of the Nominating Com-
mittee and a member of the Education Com-
mittee. His loss will be keenly felt.

Easter Parade Chairman Named

Mrs. C. Ruxton Love, a member of the
Women’s Volunteer Division, has accepted
the chairmanship of the annual Adopt-a-Pet
Parade, to be held Easter Sunday, March 29,
at the Hotel Pierre for the beneﬁt of the
Adoption Service.

 

ElECTRlCAllY HEATED
DOC-3 HOU S E

Automatic Thermostat
Maintains 65° Temp.
in sub-zero

weather

 
  
 

.22 gauge galvanized steel construction ' Color—
Tahoe Green body, silver roof 0 G.E. Calrod type
weather sealed electrical heating unit—entire unit
is grounded . Size 30” high, 291/2” long, 24”
wide 0 Fiberglas insulation 0 Dog is protected
from heating unit 0 Canvas, weighted door 0
Accommodates average size dog 0 Proper air

ventilation. Retail
Shipping weight 76 pounds Price $ 95
Shipped knocked down Only

MEIER ELECTRIC & MACHINE COMPANY, INC.

3525 East Washington St. 0 Indianapolis 7, Ind.

 

 

 

22

In the Dog House

A Los Angeles dog owner recently built
a $150 dog house for his Great Dane, com-
plete with TV antenna, chimney, doorbell,
wallpaper, blue shag rug, patio and $100
swimming pool.

Other owners throughout the country are
building or buying ranch style, split level
or studio houses to match their own homes.
Accessories include two rooms—a sleeping
and a lounge room, terraces, gables, and
windows.

Every dog owner may not want such elab-
orate doggie residences, but the old box-like
models with a couple of sheets of tar paper
on the roof are deﬁnitely on the way out.
Owners now realize that sub-standard dog
housing can lead to rheumatism, arthritis
and other afflictions.

Almost any healthy dog, except small
frail breeds, can sleep outdoors even in
coldest climates, if he’s furnished with a
well-built dog house. Dogs kept indoors in
steam-heated houses lose their resistance to
cold. But nature takes care of an animal
left outdoors by providing him with a fuller,
more luxuriant coat as insulation against
the cold.

To be really satisfactory for all-winter use,
a dog house should be insulated and raised
a few inches off the ground as protection
against dampness. Provide a ﬂap to cover
the Opening, or a hinged door to allow the
dog to enter and exit without letting in too
much cold.

Give the dog plenty of room to stretch
out, but make the house small enough so
that the dog’s own body heat will keep the
interior at a comfortable temperature. Nat-

urally, the house should contain bedding.

material.

 

Prevent the birth of unwanted
animals. Have your female dog
or cat spayed. Consult your
veterinarian.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

PRODUCTS AND SERVICES

 

ANIMAL PHOTOGRAPHER

 

CECIL
CLOVELLY

PHOTOGRAPHS
YOUR
PETS PERSONALITY

310 W. 86+h ST.
N.Y.C. 24 su 7-7520

 

 

 

ANIMAL PORTRAITS

ANIMAL PORTRAITS, Oils on canvas or velveteen . . . Pastels

Leola Moss
2415 Kirby Street Dallas, Texas

CATNIP

Catnip. 2 packages of seeds 4 plants or 1 pint dried
leaves $1. 00. 1 lb. leaves ect for toys pads $2. 00 post-
paid. Garden fresh. BOHNS. Rt. 2. Napoleon Ohio

CREMATORIES — ANIMALS

PREPARE FOR THE LOSS
OF YOUR BELOVED P'ET
Call or write for booklet "A"

MARBLE HILL CREMATORY for PET ANIMALS

418 West 219th Street New York City
LOrraine 7-3800
VISITORS WELCOME

 

 

 

 

DOG & CAT CARRYING CASES

 

CARRYING CASES

. convenient light
weight fibre

. Comfortable side
ventilatio

o assorted sizes
black or tweed fibre

Distributor Inquiries

EMPIRE
sFIBRE CASE co.
”NE: llgh STREET
Phone: OR 4—0680

 

 

 

DOG 8. CAT FOOD

 

Veterinarians recommend . . .

— BLU-BO —
For DOGS and CATS
All pure canned Horsemeat and Beet

BLU-BO Products CD. 99 Hudson St. N. Y C

warm 4 '7732 '

CAL-COD
CRUMBLIZED

DOG MEAL

5718—48th Street Maspeth 78. N. Y.
STillwell 6-2468

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ALPO. CHUNKY. CADILLAC. BIG BET
Dog and Cat Foods
KITTY LITTER. KLEEN KITTY. etc.

ANDREW GOETZ'S SONS. INC.

1144 Flushing Avenue Brooklyn 37. N.Y.
HYacinth 7-5500

 

 

 

26

 

 

WAGNER BROS. FEED CORP.

Importers and Distributors

1160 MYRTLE AVE. BROOKLYN 21. N. Y.

GLenmore 5-2719

 

DOG

AND CAT FURNISHINGS

 

 

FRanklin 4-5647 By Appointment Only
Pixie Gaye
DOG GROOMING SALON
Expert Clipping and Dog Accessories

26 Franklin Avenue Hewlett. L. I.

 

 

 

THE WELL DRESSED DOGS SHOP AT

POODLETOWN

We carry a complete line of all dog accessories,
ready made and custom made
FREE CATALOG ON REQUEST
920 PARK AVE. NEW YORK 2|. N. Y.
Tel. iLEhigh 5-0450

DOG TRAINING

 

 

CANINE COLLEGE

TRAINING ——- TRIMMING —— SUPPLIES

BOARDING
New York Office Conn. Office
449 E. 86th ST. WEST REDDING. CONN.
TRafalgar 6-2417 WEbster 8-2124

 

DOG SPECIALTIES

 

 

MILDRED PEL Eﬁﬂﬁém
BATHROBES -— PAJAMAS — HUNTING SUITS
COATS — Wool. Mink and Glamour
Cap Cod Raincoats — Unusual Collars
New York's Smartest Accessory Shop
30! E. 56th St. (At Second Ave.) N.Y.C.. PLaza 3-1368

 

 

FENCE

 

INTER FENCE

ALUMINUM, BETHANIZED AND
GALVANIZED CHAIN WIRE FENCE

Kennels - Playground - School - Parking
Lots - Erected Anywhere At Reasonable
Price - Up to 5 Years to Pay

INTER-FENCE COMPANY
105-45—158th St., Jamaica, L. l., Tel. Olympia 8-7176

 

 

 

 

 

For Children 8 " POR ABLE ?
undPets WIREE lOSURE

Only 1 minute to set
' . up or take down.

     
     
     
 

  
 

‘5 4. I Available in 4, 6 “Nd
iLIIIII"I..IIII""I:III:"III”? " 8 panels Heigh“ 2V2
»- ""II' 'l:|III"""II'.l'.III';m::: ,3 ft. or 31/2 ft

    
 
     

 

III“
IIIIIII'" ". mun?“ ii.“ If twn’e for CerU’ar AP

_ RANLL.NAS.H;,F£NCE,,CO. Mt. Vernon N. Y.

 

 

 

 

 




has Red Beef Protein
in all 3 flavors!

In every can of
Red Heart there’s the
same red beef protein.
Flavors are added, for

dogs who think they’re

people—Who want taste
variety, just as you do.
Your dog needs

Red Heart!

 

BEEF FLAVOR

 

 

FISH FLAVOR

 

 

 

LIVE R FLAVOR

 

 

 

 




