 

 

 

 

PRODUCTS AND SERVICES

 

DOG SPECIALTIES

 

MILDRED PELL Erma.
BATHROBES — PAJAMAS — HUNTING SUITS
COATS — WoolI Mink and Glamour
Cap Cod Raincoats — Unusual Collars
New York's Smartest Accessory Shop
30| E. 56th St. (At Second Ave.) N.Y. C., PLaza 3-l368

 

MONUMENTS FOR PETS

 

 

Special Attention Given To Pet Memorials

JOHN G. LUX SONS

CEMETERY MEMORIALS
Lux Monuments Since I880
‘Nork Executed in All Cemeteries

Office 8( Plant Open Sundays
MT. OLIVET & ELIOT AVES. Telephone
Maspeth, N. Y. HEgeman 3-4l82

 

 

PET SPECIALTIES

 

 

   
    

USE
SANl-PANTI

washable nylon.
' sanitary belt for
female dog. "Prevents
stains on rugs, etc. Slips
on—nothing to fasten——
no buckles or hardware.
Comfortable. Self-adjust-
ing. 5 sizes. $1.75 at
leading department stores
and pet shops. No C.0.D.
‘ ' If not available. send
$1.75-w1th measurements and breed 0f dog and we
will deliver prepaid. .Specify I)Il\'.. brown or white.
U.S. SPECIALTIES CO...
Dept. "870. I38 Prince Street. New York [2. N.Y.

   

 

Manufacturers

of the most complete line
OI dog and cat 'I'oys

® and accessories

 

Nationally known for
quality and workmanship

 

 

TROPICAL FISH 8. ACCESSORIES

 

HENRY’S TROPICAL FISH HATOHERY

Wholesale Distributors of
AQUARIUM ACCESSORIES & TROPICAL FISH

Mail Orders
109-08 - 'IOIst Avenue Richmond Hill I9, N. Y.

 

 

 

TROPICAL FISH FOOD

 

WAWIL IS BACK

Wawil, an old time favorite fish food for over 45 years,
has returned. Also excellent for making infusorIO.

VITA-MIN-BRICK
The very best all around tonic for ﬁsh and plants
Sole Distributor
Richard Hanau. P.O. Box 'I. B'klyn 18. N. Y.

 

 

 

 

PET SUPPLIES

PROTECT THE HEALTH AND WELL-BEING
OF YOUR PETS WITH
LONGLIFE®

AQUARIUM FISH FOODS AND REMEDIES
Lon-glife Fish Food Products

707 New York Ave. Union City. N. J.

 

 

 

KEEP YOUR PETS
FREE OF FLEAS
TICKS, MITES. ETC. SPRAY THEM WITH
M l T - E - K | L
HINTON & CO.. INC.
67 MURRAY ST.. NEW YORK CITY

 

 

LOOK TO COSMIC FOR THE FINEST
IN PET SUPPLIES
FUR COATS Ior DOGS—CAGE COVERS
AQUARIUM SUPPLIES

NEW ROCHELLE MFG. CO.
New Rochelle. N.Y.

 

 

 

ROVER’S PRODUCTS FOR YOUR PETS

Dog Shampoo, Dog Spray, Cod Liver Oil, Itchex,
Flea Powder, Wheat Germ Oil, Dog Soap, Cat Flea
Powder. Be sure to ask for "ROVERS" at your favor-
ite pet supply counter. Satisfaction guaranteed or
money back.

RICHARD E. ROVER CO.
70 Madison Street Hoboken. N. J.

 

 

 

 

TROPICAL FISH HOBBYISTS

._ Write for 24 page booklet. ‘Fin Facts’
#31 and introductory sample of Wardley’s
‘ """ Tropical Fish Food. Enclose 10¢ in coin

 

    
  

. -- To: ®
"”‘f, wardley’s
NEW YORK 13, N. Y.

W

hen Considering the Purchase of a

CHEVROLET

you can depend on “East Side” for
the ultimate in value and service. :

DEAST SIDE
CHEVROLET

Ist AVE. at élst ST. ° TE 8-9000
Open Daily ’til 9 — Sat. 'til 6
J FREE PARKING

 

27

 

 

 




Pity the Postman

The old joke about dogs biting the mail-
man is no joke to the Post Office Depart-
ment. Postmaster General Arthur Summer-
field recently announced a new program to
cut down on the number of bitten mailmen,
estimated at about 6,000 a year, or one for
every 20 mailmen.

Under the new ruling, if. your dog does
not mend his ways after a warning letter
to you, your mail delivery will be discon-
tinued and you will have to pick up your
mail at the Post Ofﬁce.

Dog lovers will be disconcerted too by
the news that meter-readers of the Long
Island Lighting Company have been bitten
so frequently by pets that they have taken
to carrying dog candies on their routes.

Most of the dogs involved are not strays,
but house pets which perhaps see in the
mailman and the meter-man a stranger and
a possible threat to family safety. The ex-
planation sometimes offered for a dog’s dis-
like of the postman is that the animal’s
eyes are extremely sensitive to outline and
motion, but can’t distinguish details unless
they are very close. A postman Carrying a
pack presents a frightening silhouette.

Just why dogs so often resent a uniform
no one knows. Perhaps only because it’s un-
familiar. If this is so, maybe you can cure
your dog by wearing a uniform yourself for
a couple of days.

However, if the dislike is directed towards
an individual who wears no uniform, the
reason may be as simple as a distasteful or
unfamiliar odor to your dog’s sensitive nose.

About the only cure usually lies in all
around training. If your dog isn’t thorough-
ly trained to instantaneous compliance to
your commands, work him until he is. Teach
him the simple commands -—— come, go, sit,

6

lie down, heel, and particularly ‘no” when

he does the wrong thing.

When obedience becomes automatic, seek
out the mailman and “introduce” him to the

dog. Get them together so they can become
friends. Keep the dog on leash so that you
can correct him instantly. If he tries to break
away, use a jerk of the leash and the fa-
miliar “no.”

Sometimes in his overeagerness to make
friends a mailman will make a quick grab
at a dog. This only frightens him. Have the
man approach the dog slowly, or better still,
let the dog make the advances. Then the
man can. put his hand out and let the dog
sniff it.

After a few meetings the dog will asso-
ciate the strange shape with someone he
knows. Give him the opportunity to learn

that here is no enemy but instead a friendly
man like his master.

If your dog remains incorrigible your only
answer is to keep him indoors, restrained on
a lead or conﬁned in an enclosure.

 

BETTER THAN
A BONE!

A bone is good but it
doesn’t compare with
complete dog foods like
Big Red Meal and Big Red
Pellets. -

Why? A bone is high in
protein and minerals, low

in energy ingredients.

Big Red is right in every-
thing a dog needs.

Seven different Big Red
foods at your G.L.F. store
. . . or write:

BIG RED - Box 343
Canandaigua, N. Y.

BIG RED
DOG FOODS

9

 

 

11

 




 

 

THE GIRAFFE

Nature’s answer to outer space

Current scientiﬁc studies of the giraffe
may reveal the secrets that can help man
overcome the force of gravity in outer space.

Mysteries of the giraife’s whole circula-
tion system are being studied to throw light
on his blood pressure. Scientists know it
must exert a tremendous force to get the
blood up to his head, yet not so great that
it will burst the blood vessels.

The distance between the head and heart
is ten times greater in a giraffe than in man.
The heart must pump against a force equal
to that which man encounters when he ac-
celerates ten times that of gravity, called
10 GS. (G for gravity, not giraffe.)

Test pilots black out at 5 G’s. Blood
leaves the head and breathing is practically
impossible because the lungs and heart are
pushing the diaphragm down and the liver
is pulling it from below so it can’t move.
At over 5 G’s vision is lost and the pilot
can go into a coma.

If a giraffe’s heart must work against a
weight as fantastic as man experiences at
ten times gravity’s pull, how does he do it?

Among other body peculiarities, the skin
is over a half inch thick and so tough it
requires a linoleum knife to cut it. It’s
nature’s very efﬁcient anti-gravity suit to
hold his organs and blood in place.

This jet-age curiosity concerning the
giraffe is nothing new. The tallest of all liv-
ing animals has puzzled man since earliest
times. The ancient Romans had a theory
that giraffes were a mixture of leopard and
came]. They called it a camelopardalis. The
ﬁrst giraffe to reach Europe was imported
by Julius Caesar in 46 B.C.

Aside from being the tallest animal—a
large bull may stand 19 feet high—the
giraffe comes close to being the third biggest
in bulk, competing with the rhinoceros for
this honor. A large bull weighs two tons.

Strangely enough, the giraffe’s neck con-

tains no more bones than a horse’s or cow’s.
The length of the neck is due entirely to the
elongation of the bones, not to any extra
vertebrae. Because of this a giraffe always
has a stiff neck.

Aside from its own kind—and man—
the giraffe has only one natural enemy in
Africa: the lion. But even the big cat will
hesitate before attacking a full grown bull.
When attacked the tall fellow can put up a
good ﬁght by kicking out with his legs and
his head. In open country he can gallop at
32 miles an hour.

Contrary to popular belief, a giraffe does
have vocal cords and can make. sounds.
Unfortunately, humans can’t interpret this
stalwart animal’s noises. If they could, it
might save wear and tear on scientific minds
seeking the answer to how the giraffe can
breathe normally under twice as great a
pressure as man can endure wearing an
elaborate space suit.

 

 




 

 

Mrs. Richard C. Kettles ls
Carnival for Animals Chairman
Mrs. Richard C. Kettles, Chairman of the

1958 Carnival for Animals dinner dance,
and wife of an ASPCA board member, re-
cently gave a tea at her home to announce
the committee chairmen for the coming
spring event.

Mrs. Robert W. Colby has accepted the
post of Assistant to the Chairman. Other
committee heads include: Mrs. Mayson
Hatch Tucker and Mrs. Edward Schoenhof,
Advertising; Mrs. Dennison Schweppe, Pub-
licity; Mrs. Ronald Craigmyle, Jr., Prizes;
Mrs. George Henning, Chances; Mrs. John
Brinkerhoif, Arrangements; 'Mrs. D. Cul-
more Lincoln, Tickets and Miss Alison Akin,
Junior Committee.

Members of the Executive Committee in-
clude Mrs. Richard A. Johnson, Mrs. George
Hayman, Mrs. Mayson Hatch Tucker, Mrs.
Arthur L. Crowder and Mrs. Peter D.
Garvan. -

The Long Island Committee of the
ASPCA’s Women’s Volunteer Division will
use the proceeds of the dinner dance, to
be held on Friday, May 16 at the Piping
Rock Club in Locust Valley, to establish a
building fund for an ASPCA-owned shelter
in Nassau County.

The Glen Cove Shelter, from which we
carry on our work at present, is owned by
the City of Glen Cove. Since we opened this
shelter in October 1956, contracts have been
signed with a number of other nearby com-
munities, and we can foresee the day when
the building’s facilities will not be adequate
for the work demanded of us. It is with this
eventuality in mind that the Long Island
women are establishing the fund to build
a new shelter when the time comes.

 

Prevent the birth of unwanted
animals. Have your female dog
or cat spayed. Consult your
veterinarian.

 

 

 

 

Mrs. E. Keppler Cowen and Miss Jean Martin
with Baron and Lady Wolfschmidt, animal
hosts at the Easter Adopt-A-Pet Parade.

Easter Dance Benefits
ASPCA Adoption Service

Adopt-A-Pet Parade, the fourth annual
Easter Tea Dance arranged by the ASPCA
Women’s Volunteer Division, was held in
the Roof Garden of the Hotel Pierre. Some
of the 16,268 animals for which the Society
found homes during the past year were
paraded by their new owners. And a num-
ber of pets were adopted from among the
dogs and cats shown from the Society’s
eight shelters.

Mrs. E. Keppler Cowen was chairman of
the event and TV’s Jean Martin was spon-
sor and commentator.

A pair of beautiful Borzoi dogs named
Baron and Lady Wolfschmidt acted as ani-
mal hosts. Music was supplied by Bob
Boucher’s orchestra.

Among the animals adopted from the
Adopt-A-Pet Parade were a ﬂoppy-eared has-
set hound, a beagle puppy. a terrior puppy
and several kittens.

23

 

 




   
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   

by about 350 guests, including ofﬁcials of
The Port of New York Authority, foreign
and domestic airlines and humane societies
1 throughout the country.
Billy XIV, goat mascot of the U. S. Naval
; Academy and a seasoned air traveler, flew
up from Annapolis with two midshipmen
to inspect the facilities. Another animal
visitor at the opening was Kokomo, Jr. of
1 NBC-TV’S Today show, a chimpanzee who
; gets around a bit too.
Kokomo showed a lively interest in the
? Animalport’s ﬁrst paying customer, a gray
and White cat left with the Society by a
French woman and her American husband.
‘ The couple landed from Paris a month be-
fore, and although the shelter wasn’t open for
business yet they begged us to care for the
cat until they found a place to live.
. (The cat is now reunited with her owners
l in California where the ASPCA shipped her
after hearing that the couple had bought a
home there.)

Also present on opening day were a few
other Animalport customers. In the stable
were show horses, two donkeys, a friendly
llama and a baby elephant.

f The kennels held four dogs and Frenchy

the cat, in individual tiled compartments.

The Sydney H. Coleman Animalport at New York International Airport.

The temperature-controlled room for tropical
birds housed two cockatoos, a parrot, 25
parakeets, ﬁve crates of canaries, a cage load,
of love birds and a chimpanzee, who didn’t
feather a nest, but did require a tropical
climate.

Kokomo, Jr., of NBC-TV’s Today show in-
terviews Dr. John E. Whitehead, ASPCA
Hospital’s Chief of Staff, at Animalport.




 

 

Medal of Honor Awards
for Outstanding Bravery

Fireman Rescues Dog

Fireman William R. Fairchild received the
ASPCA Medal of Honor and Certiﬁcate of
Merit for saving a mongrel dog trapped in-
side a burning three-story house in Brooklyn.

A ladder was raised to the second floor
and Fireman Fairchild entered amid heat
and smoke to ﬁnd Mrs. Irene Battle, her
daughter Mary, age seven, and the family
dog in a dazed condition. He handed the
child to another ﬁreman at the window, re-
turned for the mother and then carried the
dog down the ladder to safety.

Above and beyond the

Dog Barks Fire Warning

The ASPCA award for
bravery went to Skippy, a three-year-old
English fox terrier, whose barking aroused
his owner, thus warning him of a ﬁre in his
Schenectady, N. Y., apartment building. John
T. De Gloria, awakened by the dog, sounded
the alarm and seven other families escaped
from the three-story building.

outstanding

Skipper Warns of a Fire

Skipper, a black mongrel adopted only
two months earlier from the Kentﬁeld
SPCA, gave notice of a house full of smoke
by tugging at his new owner’s pajamas. Mr.
David Wayne of San Rafael, California,
aroused his wife, an expectant mother, and
they escaped from their burning home.

Dog Fights Bobcat to Save Boy

One ASPCA award went to a plucky dog
that fought a fang and claw duel with a
large bobcat that attacked the dog’s young
master, four-year-old J on Lynott, of Vir-
ginia, Minnesota.

I on and his pet Bob, a year-old part collie
and part cooker, were playing near the boy’s
home when the 35-pound bobcat sprang onto
the boy’s back and dragged him to earth.

 

A I' .‘I I ’
, .5. 3;]; ’1’; ("I y? I I
I; ' " (Ll/’6’ / $1
/,I

  

../ ’1, ¢ / ,
,, ”MM /;
. ,//I/ ll” ,5] .

’1,” I/ f ,7 ,5: Z '5
4/ MA / if,”

1 If
, .. .. 5W5?
. 5;. g; If;
3'; U": ?: ”fr/I ’ I
' 'il‘ lli . f In
- ill-W m .f' ’7;
‘v a” «an... ’ ‘ if." v
" //'/ .~'/,/,/’ ‘Mg! PM".
’ ,. {i ,‘5’
i f .
5..

2255”" '
.1 _.>‘ .::1:"./ f
a / / ",3

 

 

The dog sailed into the ﬁght and held off
the spitting cat until a retired police ofﬁcer
brought the cat down with a single shot.

John Wayne’s Dog Honored

Blackie, a pedigreed dachshund belonging
to actor John Wayne and his family, of
Encino, California, was cited for wakening
Mrs. Wayne at 3:20
a.m. to warn her of
ﬂames engulﬁng her
bedroom. Moving
quickly, Mrs.
Wayne, the former
Peruvian actress,
Pilar Palette,
grabbed her 20-
month-old daughter,
Aissa, from her
crib and escaped to
safety. Mr. Wayne was in Japan making
a picture.

 

19

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

ts,

ANIMALéoRr’oMsT
Sto,rv,oneaze*2i32

VJ“

 

   




 

When cruelty to an animal is involved
the ASPCA can borrow a little of the repu-
tation of the Northwest Mounted Police. We
never give up until we track down our man.

In one recent case it took a whole year
until we brought to justice a peddler ac-
cused of galloping a horse attached to a
vegetable wagon in Manhattan.

Agent Alfred D’Alessio, who witnessed
the cruelty, had given the man a summons,
but the man ignored it and didn’t show up
in court. When apprehended a year later,
the scofHaw had racked up 45 other infrac—
tions, including automobile theft, peddling
without a license and striking an ofﬁcer.

He pleaded guilty to all charges and was
given a $25 ﬁne or 15 days in jail on the
cruel violation. He chose the jail term, which
could stretch into 163 days if he doesn’t pay
a $395 ﬁne on the other 45 convictions.

96 9? *

A new method of shipping and selling

goldﬁsh is under observation by the ASPCA.

Two ﬁsh, together with food and water
for several weeks, are sealed in a small plas-
tic bag and sold in variety stores. (Accord-
ing to the Chemical company that manufac-
tures the plastic used in the bag, it has a
high permeability to oxygen and carbon
dioxide.)

According to the developer of this method,
it is an improved way of shipping and sell-
ing goldﬁsh. He claims there are fewer
fatalities and that the ﬁsh are in better con-
dition when the customer buys them.

The local processor has promised to put
the processing date on the bags and to re-
move the ﬁsh not sold within two weeks.

Thus far the ASPCA has been unable to
ﬁnd any violation of the cruelty to animals
laws, but we are keeping the stores carrying

. . . for the prevention

of cruelty . . .

the ﬁsh under careful scrutiny.
'2‘ 99 *

Two Brooklyn men who stole a vege-
table peddler’s horse and wagon, and drove
the animal until it died of exhaustion, were
recently sentenced to one-year terms in the
city penitentiary for petty larceny.

The ASPCA had charged the men with
cruelty to animals, but from the viewpoint
of our courts, petty larceny, a felony, is a
more serious charge than cruelty to animals,
a misdemeanor. The greater charge usually
takes precedence.

During the three months of delay, in
which the case was postponed several times,
ASPCA Agents were in court ready to press
the cruelty to animals charge if the petty
larceny charge were dismissed.

In sentencing the men, Judge Samuel
Leibowitz told them, “You’re lower than the
animal whose death you caused.”

96 96 96

Currently pending is a cruelty charge
against a self-styled former cowboy, reputed-
ly engaged in promoting rodeo shows in
Ulster County, about 100 miles from New
York City. ASPCA Agent Raymond Winne,
together with the local constable, arrested
the man for neglect of the animals on his
property near Kingston.

Winne found a Brahma bull dead, another
dying, and the remainder of the stock, with
the exception of some of the horses who 7
were permitted to forage for themselves, in
pitiable condition. The stock consisted of
two Brahma bulls, two long-horned steers,
eight horses, four goats and four dogs.

Some of the stock was in such poor con-
dition it had to be destroyed. Winne has
been feeding the remainder twice a day.
Pending a court hearing, the offender is
now out on bail.

15

 

 

 

 




ANIMAL PROTECTION

Published three times yearly by

The American Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

Founded and Incorporated 1866

 

Vol. 12, NO. 1
Editorial Ofﬁce: 30 East 60th Street

 

ADMINISTRATION OFFICES . . TRafalgar 6- 7700
441 East 92nd St., New York 28, N. Y. (York Ave.)
WARREN W. MCSPADDEN, General Manager
ARTHUR L. AMUNDSEN, Assistant General Manager
GEORGE H. TUSCHER, Director of Humane Work
KATHERINE M. LEHR, Secretary to Committees
THACHER PROFFITT, PRIZER, CRAWLEY & WOOD,

Attorney and Counsel

HOSPITAL AND CLINIC . . . .
441 East 92nd St.. New York 28, N. Y.
JOHN E. WHITEHEAD, V.M.D., Chief of Stay?
THOMAS A. FEGAN, Business Manager

EDUCATION DEPARTMENT . . TRafalgar 6-7700, Ext. 3]
441 East 92nd St., New York 28, N. Y. (3rd Floor)

PUBLIC RELATIONS DEPARTMENT . PLaza 5-1650
30 East 60th St., New York 22, N. Y.
JUNE ELIOT, Director

ANIMALPORT .
Air Cargo Center, New York International
Airport, Jamaica 30, N. Y.
GEORGE F. BAUER, Resident Manager

BRONX SHELTER AND CLINIC .
420 Morris Park Avenue, Bronx 60, N. Y.
(between Tremont Ave. and East 178th St.)
N. MICHAEL BROMLEY, District Manager

BROOKLYN SHELTER

233 Butler St., Brooklyn 17, N. Y.
(between Nevins and Bond Streets)
HARRY J. CONNOLLY, District Manager

ELMSFORD SHELTER .
Old Saw Mill River Rd.,E1msford, N. Y.
CARL STOHR, Shelter Manager

GLEN COVE SHELTER . . .
Pratt Blvd. Ext, Glen Cove, L. I.
VINCENT J. PATTERSON, Shelter Manager

LONG BEACH SHELTER. .
70 Water Street, Long Beach, L. 1.
JAMES J. MCKENNA, Shelter Manager

MANHATTAN SHELTER . . . . . .
441 East 92nd St.. New York 28, N. Y.
FRANCIS MELVIN, District Manager

QUEENS SHELTER . . .
94-27 158th St., Jamaica 33, N. Y.
ROBERT B. FERRIS, District Manager

TRafalgar 6-7700

OLympia 6-6042

TYrone 2-8500

TRiangle 5-9580

LYric 2-7890

GLen Cove 4-5913

GEneral 1-0660

TRafalgar 6-7700

REpublic 9-4041

RICHMOND SHELTER .
4 Willow Ave, Rosebank, S. In. 5, N. Y.
WALTER L. HOLLINDE, District Manager

Glbraltar 7-0122

Spring 1958

Editor, JANICE PAPRIN

OFFICERS

WILLIAM ROCKEFELLER, President
WILLIAM F. MORGAN. Vice-President
JAMES H. RIPLEY, Vice-President
THOMAS D. HUGHES, Vice-President
WILLIAM A. MEYERHOFF, Treasurer
WILLIAM L. BURTON, Secretary

LOUIS REYNAL, Assistant Secretary
WARREN W. MCSPADDEN, Ass’t. Treasurer

BOARD OF MANAGERS

JOHN D. BEALs, JR.
WILLIAM E. BUCKLEY
JOHN W. CROSS, JR.
JAMES H. JENKINS
ROBERT L. JONES
RICHARD C. KETTLES
JOSE A. MACHADO, JR.
ALASTAIR B. MARTIN
JOSEPH B. MURRAY
HUGH E. PAINE

W. Ross PROCTOR
WILLIAM A. ROCKEFELLER
GEORGE B. WAGSTAFR

Managers Emeritus
F. AMBROSE CLARK
HENRY J. FISHER
SAMUEL R. MILBANK

 

 

COVER PICTURE

Actress Tina Louise, soon to be
seen in “God’s Little Acre,” makes
friends with a horse at Opening Of
the ASPCA’S new Sydney H. Cole-
man Animalport at New York In-
ternational Airport. (Story on p. 2)

 

 

Pictures unless otherwise credited are by AI levine

 

 

 




 

 

 

An attendant makes friends with a monkey in the tem-
perature-controlled room for tropical animals and birds.

3275.000 BUILDING
HAS ALL CONVENIENCES

The modernistic, two-floor Animalport oc-
cupies 5,000 square feet on an acre and a
quarter of land leased from the Port of New
York Authority. In New York International
Airport’s Air Cargo Center, it is easily ac-
cessible to any airline carrying animals and
is only a three-minute drive from Terminal
City, where passenger planes land.

On the main ﬂoor are 40 kennels with
adjoining outdoor runs, eleven stalls for
horses and other large animals and an out-
door paddock, temperature-controlled rooms
for birds, fish and small animals, an isola-
tion room for the sick, and a well-equipped

4

veterinary clinic.

A special feature is the 50-foot by 35-foot
indoor loading area. The two-story room is
big enough for the largest trucks to load
animals inside the building, thus protecting
them from the weather.

In front is parking space for 30 cars or
trucks. A four-room apartment for resident
manager George F. Bauer, his wife and son
is on the second floor.

Designed by the architectural ﬁrm of
Alfred Easton Poor, the building was begun
in January 1957 and completed December
last.

 




 

 

 

 

 

HOW TO TEACH YOUR DOG

good Lil/lawman

With a little patience any dog can and
should be taught good manners. He should
not ﬁght strange dogs, chase cars, grow] at
strangers, run away, bark all night or jump
on people. He should learn to mind his
owner, to walk quietly by his side, to come
immediately when called. He should know
how to heel, lie down, turn left and right.

These pictures show how to teach your
dog some of these good manners. The white
poodle learning is ASP'CA’s Education De-
partment dog Columbus of Terra Bella.
Called Kim for short, he is a graduate of
the ASPA’s obedience training courses,
which have trained almost 9,000 dogs and
their owners since they began in 1944. Kim
holds the degree of Companion Dog with

 

1. Dog is taught to walk at owner’s side the American Kennel Club and recently won
as close to left knee as possible (heel- a ﬁrst prize in the Staten Island Obedience
ing). Hold leash in right hand, use left Trials. His trainer is Diana Henley, ASPCA
to urge dog along, pat or correct him. Instructor in Education.

2. How to turn right is taught by suddenly 3. Left turn is taught by lifting right knee
turning sharp and ierking on leash. or foot against dog's neck and chest.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

Queens-Nassau Pix

© Cats and Jl/lem

In all of man’s relationship with animals,
he has probably developed no more intense

attitudes than his love for cats—or his;

hatred of cats.

Throughout the ages man has found rea-
son to worship cats, and at times to perse-
cute them almost to extinction. From the
crest of her popularity in Egypt, where cats
were worshipped as gods, buried in cat ceme-
teries wrapped in burial cloths and even
embalmed with mice, the feline descended
to her lowest ebb in the Middle Ages.

The naturally nocturnal cat looking for
mice was thought to be an evil witch with
supernatural powers to spoil crops, to sour
milk, to cause afflictions or even to bring
death. Everywhere cats were pursued, tor-
mented and killed.

Old beliefs die hard and today there are
still those who will say they dislike cats
because: black cats are bad luck; cats can
see in the dark; cats have nine lives; cats
can read your mind; cats are sly and treach-

12

erous. Some genuine aelurophobes actually
become ill in the presence of a cat.

Our language too, contains the last ves-
tiges of cat superstitions. The catty person
is malicious. The cat’s-paw is a dupe. The
copy cat steals another’s ideas. To pussyfoot
is to be evasive. The catcall is derisive.

Now it is true that cats sometimes behave
in a manner that is distinctly uncanny from
the human point of View, but they can’t see
in the dark any better than you can, they
live only once, and if a cat stares you straight
in the eye without ﬂinching, she is merely
interested in seeing what you are going to
do next.

The facts about the feline personality are
actually more remarkable than the myths
which probably arose because man could
never actually ﬁgure her out.

The cat is, ﬁrst of all, independent. She
serves no one, willingly or knowingly. Cats
do not herd sheep, carry messages, or run
back to the ranch seeking help for trapped
cowboys. There are no police cats, no watch
cats, no sled cats.

True, there is a black cat called Peter on
the ofﬁcial staff of the London Home ofﬁce.
The government pays him $18.20 a year to
keep the ministry building in Whitehall clear
of rats and mice. But undoubtedly, Peter
stays on only because it suits his own fancy.

Cats are self-sufficient. You never have
to entertain them. . (Betty Hutton once ob-
served: “You can’t beat cats for company.
You don’t have to knock yourself out throw-
ing sticks for them to retrieve”) Cats are
conservative creatures. Change unsettles
them. They are suspicious of a new item in
their diets, new ways of doing things and
newcomers to the household. They often hate
traveling.

Cats generally have a good sense of fun,
although they are too dignified to have a
real sense of humor. In play the cat will act
the clown, but never the stooge. She can’t
abide being made to feel ridiculous.

In most human eyes the feline personality

(Continued on Page 24)

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    

  




 

 

   
 

W

.1

THE D on usrm

”Ill

. ﬁg;
V

.11le

 

 

all

 

How Worms Affect Your Dog

by Stanley Weissman, D.V.M.
ASPCA Hospital and Clinic

Worms are practically a universal prob-
lem among dogs from puppyhood to old age.
At best they can seriously weaken a dog,
and in some cases may even kill an animal
by causing anemia or by blocking his diges-
tive tract.

Common Varieties

There are many varieties of this parasite,
but only four common types affect city dogs
in northeastern United States. Hookworms
and whipworms are microscopic. Round-
worms can be up to several inches in size,
are white and appear coiled like a spring.
Tapeworms, which can grow to several feet
in length, are long, flat and ribbon-like.
They look like grains of rice when broken
in segments. Heads of tapeworms become
attached to the animal’s intestinal wall, de-
riving nourishment from the animal’s body.

In effect worms are hangers on, competing
with the dog for his own food.

Symptoms

Symptoms may not appear for several
weeks or even several months after the
worms mature. Then symptoms include
ravenous appetite with small weight gain.
occasional nausea, diarrhea or vomiting, in-
ﬂammation of the rectum, bloody stool,
swelling of the legs or abdomen, sluggish-
ness, weakness.

Puppies, less able to withstand the inva-
sion than adult dogs, may be pot-bellied.
In the case of tapeworm, the animal may
bite his tail. One of the most important
symptoms of hookworm is anemia due to

16

loss of blood. An owner can spot anemia
when normally deep pink gums and insides
of the eyelids appear light pink or White. A
coughing spasm may indicate larvae in the
lungs. Frequently segments of tapeworm can
actually be seen around the rectum.

However, all of these symptoms, except
of course the last, can also be signs of other
illnesses. So the only correct procedure is
microscopic analysis of the stool. Once the
presence of worms is conﬁrmed, a vermifuge
(a purgative for worms) is indicated.

Treatment

Worm medicines should be administered
only by a veterinarian. He must take into
account the type of worm present, because
speciﬁc worms respond to different medi-
cines. The dosage depends on the dog’s
weight, his strength and the degree of
infestation.

These medicines are strong drugs which
are meant to wash the worms out of the
dog’s body. In the case of tapeworm, the
head must be dislodged and passed out too.
Otherwise the worm will grow again. Be-
cause of the violence of these drugs they
can rupture an animal’s stomach and can
even kill an animal too weak or anemic to
stand the strain. For this reason, the vet-
erinarian will often try to build up a dog’s
strength before giving the vermifuge.

Prevention

Since getting rid of worms is so trouble-
some, prevention is important. Worms are
spread mainly in four ways: by eating con-
taminated food; by ﬂeas which may harbor
tapeworm eggs; by an infested mother dog
to her puppies before birth; by the feces
of infected dogs. If the latter is the cause.
try to determine the source in your neigh-
borhood and walk your dog elsewhere.

Drinking milk or eating meat, candy or
sugar does not cause worms unless the food
itself is contaminated.

Prevention revolves around generally sani-
tary conditions, the use of good fresh food,
examination of the dog by a veterinarian
and frequent fecal analysis.




 

 

 

 

Mrs. August H. Haucke awards ASPCA Medal
to Lorence F. Biorklund, who risked his life
when his pet dachhund went overboard
while he was sailing on Penobscot Bay,
Maine. He jumped into the water after the
dog, overturning the boat. The dog drowned
and Biorklund clung to the side of the boat
in icy water for three hours.

 

How the Thoroughbred
Originated

The name Thoroughbred is properly ap-
plied only to a certain breed of running
race horse. Sometimes the term is incorrectly
used interchangeably with the word pure-
bred to refer to any horse that has been
bred pure for several generations.

Actually every true Thoroughbred can
trace his fathers back over 200 years to
England, where the famous breed of elegant
creatures originated in the late 17th and
early 18th centuries. How the breed origi-
nated is a fascinating part of history which
concerns the people of Merrie Old England,
a grim dictator and a light-hearted king.

20

After the 11 years of austerity during
Oliver Cromwell’s reign England was ready
to make up for lost fun under Charles 11.
Besides an interest in science and the arts,
Charles also set out to improve the horses
in the royal stables.

He imported long-legged Barb mares from
the Barbary Coast of Africa and lived to see
splendid racers from his own stables. The

fashion for breeding good horses continued
after the death in 1685 of Charles, often
called the father of the English turf.

In 1689 a splendid Arabian stallion named
Byerly Turk was imported to the royal
stables. In 1706 came Darley Arabian and
in 1724 came Godolphin Arabian. These
three Arab sires were bred to English mares,
resulting in the best racing breed the world
has ever known. Some time later horses of

this breed were called Thoroughbreds.

The English racers soon were in demand
all over the world. In 1730 a Thoroughbred
named Bulle Bock, son of Darley Arabian,
was brought to Virginia. Others followed,
and soon America was producing her own
line of Thoroughbreds. Nowadays, about
5,000 of these aristocrats are born here
every year. Probably the most famous
American Thoroughbreds were Man o’War
and Citation. Man o’War was credited with
a speed of 21 seconds for a quarter mile——
an hourly rate of 43 miles.

These horses stand around 15 to 16 hands
high and weigh between 1,000 and 1,150
pounds. They are bay, brown, chestnut, black
or less frequently, gray, with occasional
white marks.

Every Thoroughbred has a registered
pedigree listing his ancestors. 1n the United
States The Jockey Club is registrar, with
more than 290,000 animals having been
recorded since it was originated in 1894.
And every Thoroughbred can trace his pedi-
gree back 250 years or more to Byerly Turk,
Darley Arabian or Godolphin Arabian.

 




 

 

Of Cats and Men
(Continued from Page 12)

is feminine. (Only James P. Carroll has
called cats “red-blooded rip-roaring chunks
of 100 percent masculinity”) Like most
females the cat is conﬁdent, has no brag or
bluster. She is practical and an utter realist.

She often seems contrary, but this is
merely her resistance to anything that is not
her own idea. Occasionally she will seem to
obey, but this is simply a coincidence of.
your wishes and her intentions.

Despite the cat’s independent nature, she
is capable of a warm and lasting friendship.
Nevertheless, the matter of who has the up-
per hand will always be in doubt. The rela-
tionship must be based on a tolerance of
each other’s privacy and individuality.

These very character traits which exasper-
ate some people, also endear the cat to many
others. The feline species has always exer-
cised a particular attraction for persons in
artistic, cultural and creative pursuits.

History recalls that Pope Gregory the
Great and Cardinals Mazarin, Richilieu and
Wolsey were lovers of cats. Authors Samuel
Johnson, Thomas Gray and Charles Dickens

owned cats.

Nowadays writers like Paul Gallico,
Fannie Hurst, Wolcott Gibbs, Frances and
Richard Lockridge, Maxwell Anderson,
Sophie Kerr and Jean Stafford have ad-
mired cats in print. Musicians and artists
are also partial to cats. As might be ex-
pected, dancers are almost inevitably at-
tracted to cats, whose movements are a
source of envy and inspiration to them.

Actors like Celeste Holm, Shirley Booth,
June Havoc, James Mason, radio’s Ed and
Pegeen Fitzgerald and Henrietta Hitchcock,
“cat editor” of the New York World Tele-
gram and Sun, are all cat boosters. Photog-
rapher Walter Chandoha has made a career
of cat pictures. In this country there are
nearly 100 local breeding societies and three
large federations of cat clubs.

21.

If pressed for reasons why they like cats,
aelurophiles will probably have no ready
answer. Perhaps they admire a cat’s neat-
ness, her composure, her ability to relax,
her playful antics, her softness to the touch,
her silent grace, her esthetic qualities. Per-
haps there is no answer. Perhaps it’s be-
cause she’s different. She’s complex. She’s
fascinating. She’s cat.

One of the most malicious acts in the
ASPCA’s experience occurred last March,
when someone apparently attempted to kill a
Staten Island dog by feeding it a steak bone
and a cookie, both ﬁlled with straight pins.
The owner discovered the pins after her dog,
a female dalmatian, came into the house
with the bone in its mouth. Something shiny
in the bone attracted her attention. She later
found the pin-ﬁlled cookie in the yard.

The act is clearly a violation of the law
which speciﬁcally prohibits tossing any ob-
ject injurious to animals in a public place.
The ASPCA is still investigating the case.
Meanwhile we have posted warning signs
in the neighborhood offering a reward of
$100 for the arrest and conviction of the
person involved. For many years we have
had a standing reward for that amount for
the conviction of anyone accused of poison-
ing an animal, which is also against the law

in New York.

Please Remember the ASPCA
in Your Will

FORM OF BEQUEST

I give and bequeath to The American
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals, a New York charitable
corporation having its principal oﬂice
at 441 East 92nd Street, New York,
N. Y., the sum of ____________________ Dollars.

 




 

 

 

NO HOME TO GO TO . . .

until the ASPCA Adoption Service found one for us—
and 16,268 other animals—last year
thanks to you . . . and you . . . and you

who contribute so generously to this service

Please use the enclosed envelope

for this year’s contributions to the

ASPCA ADOPT SERV

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

I N D E X

ASPCA Opens Animalport

at ldlewild 2
The Giraﬁ‘e
How to Teach Your Dog

Good Manners 8
The Dog in Literature .............................. 10
Pity the Postman .. 11
Of Cats and Men .................................... 12
Animal Antics 13
Subway Exit for Cats .............................. 14
For the Prevention of Cruelty ............ 15
The Doctor Listens 16
Our Hospital Needs ................................. 17
Tale of a Lost Dog 18
Above and Beyond the Call ............... 19
How the Thoroughbred Originated 20
You Can't Fool a Squirrel ..................... 21
Rent Law Protects Dog Owners ......... 22
Letters 25
Products and Services ........................... 26
No Home to Go to 28

 

 

 

 

 

Humane Slaughter of Livestock
As the ASPCA informed its membership

in a special mailing in February, the U. S.
House of Representatives passed a bill mak-
ing humane slaughter Of food animal com-
pulsory. A companion bill, S 1497, was due
to come up for vote in the Senate if ap-

proved by the Senate Committee on Agri-
culture and Forestry. The ASPCA urged

supporters to write to each member of this
committee as well as to the two Senators
from the state in which they live.

At press time the fate of the Senate bill
is undecided. If it is passed, we can all
rejoice that our concerted push has at last
resulted in a law tO render livestock in-
sensible tO pain before slaughter. If it
doesn’t pass, we will simply try again.

 

New Policy

With this issue of ANIMAL PROTECTION
we are starting a new policy. We are ac-
cepting advertising for the ﬁrst time since
we began publishing in 1947.

Like everything else, costs Of printing and
distributing ANIMAL PROTECTION have gone
up, up, and up. We charge no subscription
rates for the magazine. It is distributed free
Of charge to ASPCA members and contrib-
tors, serving two purposes: ﬁrst, tO inform
them of ASPCA activities and OffCI‘ interest—
ing and helpful articles on animals; second,
tO act as an appeal for funds, thus saving
separate mailings.

We want every penny of these contribu-
tions to go toward direct help for animals,
and so we are accepting advertising to help
pay for the printing costs.

We will see to it that the advertisers will
be reputable ﬁrms and the ads in good taste.

 

School Instruction in Kindness

Congratulations are in order for the
State Of New Jersey, which last January
passed a law requiring schools in the state
tO teach kindness and the avoidance Of cru-
elty to animals and birds, both wild and
domesticated. A low bow to the legislators
for this far-reaching law.

WW

General Manager

 




     
 

 

‘ M ----------

 

 

INTERNATIONAL CLIENTELE

EXPECTED

Already known as a “traveler’s aid for
pets,” the Animalport is open 24 hours a
day to examine, clean, feed, water, exercise
and care for animals in transit. Some ani-
mals may stay only a few hours, others a
few weeks while awaiting flights.

Ambulance service and medical care will
be provided for sick and injured animals.
Cooperating with the Veterinary Medical
Association of New York City, we will call
on member veterinarians located in the
vicinity of the airport on a rotation basis.

Crating directions and health certiﬁcates
are supplied when needed. An immaculate
kitchen prepares a scientiﬁc diet for any
type of animal and a special diet for ﬁnicky
eaters.

Race and show horses, elephants for zoos,
monkeys, tropical birds for dealers and
household pets are expected to be among
the more frequent guests.

Veterinarian offers ﬁrst aid to canine

Tentative rates vary from twenty-ﬁve
cents a day for birds to $4 a day for large
animals with big appetites. Dogs pay $1.50
to $2.50 and cats 31. Snakes, usually shipped
in quantity by bags, are billed at ﬁfty cents
a bag for the non-poisonous species and $1

for poisonous snakes.

Experienced attendants care for the ani-
mals, which arrive from the four corners
of the earth, transported by the 36 airlines,
representing 23 nations, which serve Inter—
national Airport. One attendant is Mervin
Taylor, kennelman for three years at the
Royal SPCA’s London Airport Animal Hostel
in England.

Supervising the overall operation is
ASPCA’s assistant general manager Arthur
L. Amundsen, who spent last summer ob-
serving the London Shelter, the ﬁrst animal.
air hostel in the world, which recently cared
for its two millionth animal.

guest awaiting plane connections.

     




           
    
    
 
  
    

   

4. Teach dog to sit by ierking up on Later he should drop to the down posi—
leash, pushing down on dog’s rump. tion whenever hand signal is given.

 

5. Command dog to stay by holding left

hand in front 0f muzzle, palm bGCk- 8. ln retrieving, dog must pick up dumb-l

bell when ordered, must never drop it.

 

6. Lie down is taught by pulling dog's
head down. Draw leash under your 9. Jumping is taught with a stick ﬁrst, then
foot.Always praise dog when he obeys. over a hurdle. Gradually raise height.

   




IN THE NEWS PARADE

ANIMAL ANTICS

A Dallas, Texas, woman couldn’t un-
derstand how her cat persistently appeared
in the house after she had ﬁrmly escorted
it outside and barred all entrances. She
stayed up all night to ﬁnd out. The Wiley
cat was sliding down the chimney.

‘3': $6 9?

When a Tennessee man accidentally
locked his cat in the farm pumphouse, the
cat let him know it was trapped by pulling
the switch and cutting off the water supply.

'36 9% 9?

A chambermaid at Boston’s Hotel
Lenox opened the door to Room 915, sur-
veyed the interior to make certain the occu-
pant was dressed—and fainted. What she
saw was a 180-pound African cheetah the
owner had been keeping in his room while
showing it at the Sportsman’s show.

'2‘ $9 96

Citizens of Loudenville, N. Y., stared
when a ﬂock of robbins ﬂuttered about
crazily, crashed windows and ﬁnally Hopped
on the ground in a stupor. Investigation
showed they had been gorging themselves
on fermented cherries under a nearby tree.

56 ii 46

In West Islip, N. Y., a woman walked
into her guest room to ﬁnd a strange man
asleep in the bed. The family watch dog,
using a trick he had been taught, had re-
leased the door lock and let the man in.

e:- ~x ->:-

In Woodruff, S. C., a parakeet named
JO-JO overdid himself. Trained to awaken his
master, who hated alarm clocks, the bird
routed his boss out of bed punctually every
morning—including Saturdays, Sundays
and holidays. x y &

An alligator named Albert, mascot of
an armored training unit at Fort Knox,

Kentucky, was declared dead by a post

veterinarian after being frozen in his tank
when its leaking drain let out all the water
in which he was hibernating. Albert was
later revived by a private——who applied
artiﬁcial respiration.

96 9% 96

Owners of Elmer, a crow, were hailed
into a California court with the bird.
Charge: public nuisance. A neighbor com-
plained that Elmer had been peeking at her
through her bedroom window.

‘X‘ '35. 96

Joey, a parakeet, was banished from his
owner’s ofﬁce in Florida because he 1)
wolf-Whistled at girls, 2) rode on typewriter
carriages, 3) butted in on telephone conver-
sations by chattering into the mouthpiece.

W

W

/

    
 

At the premiere of “Old Ye‘ller,” a
Walt Disney ﬁlm about a dog, a New Jersey
theatre manager offered to let in free any-
one who showed up with a dog. When the
theatre opened the line-up at the box ofﬁce
was 350 children, 75 adults and 425 dogs.
After the show the manager reported the
dogs had sat calmly in their seats, seemed
to enjoy the ﬁlm and were the most orderly
patrons he’d ever seen in the theatre.

13

 




OUR HOSPITAL NEEDS . . .

Hyfrecator — $72.00

This instrument is used to remove growths
on or near the surface of the skin——
whether benign or malignant —through
the use of electrical cUrrent. Unwanted
tissues ranging from minor skin warts,
cysts, tumors and fissures to the more
serious growths in the vagina, the throat
or the eye can be removed either by
drying out the tissues, or by cutting or
burning them out. Even tons‘ilectomies
can be performed with very little
bleeding.

 

The hyfrecator, originally developed
for humans, can, in the hands of our
ASPCA veterinarians, give afflicted ani-
mals the same opportunity for recovery.

 

 

Aspirator — $107.50

This suction pump is used to draw liquids
from the body. For instance, during
abdominal surgery it will pump out
accumulated watery fluids. During op-
erations to remove bladder stones, it
will pump urine from the bladder. An
animal under anesthesia frequently ac-
cumulates mucous in the windpipe. The
aspirator will drain off that mucous. It
can also be used to pump poison from
an animal's stomach.

An important surgical aid, the aspi-
rator would assist our veterinarians in
performing delicate operations with

 

more successful results.

 

17

 




 

 

You Can’t Fool a Squirrel

How do hibernating animals know when
it’s time to go into their long winter sleep?

It sounds simple. Days get shorter, nights
longer. Killing frosts make food progessively
harder to come by, and so the animal says
to heck with it, and hibernates until spring.
Simple, but not true, at least as regards the
Canadian Golden Manteled ground squirrel,
a very close relative of the animal known
in the U. S. as a gopher.

Zoologists of the University of Toronto
have kept one such squirrel in a windowless
room for over two years where it couldn’t
have had the slightest idea of how things
were outside.

Every day in that room was 12 hours
long, due to controlled artiﬁcial lighting, and
that’s the length of a late spring day. Food
and water were abundant and easy to get at.
There was plenty of squirrel bedding ma—
terial. The daily temperature was never less
than 30 degrees nor warmer than 42.

Yet when October rolled around, the ani-
mal went into deep hibernation from which
it did not awaken until May. This is pre-
cisely the schedule wild ground squirrels fol-
low in Alberta Province where winters are

cold and bleak.

The scientists concluded that the Species
possesses some form of “internal seasonal
clock” which determines the periods of hi-
bernation and activity, and which is inde-
pendent of the normal seasonal ﬂuctuations
of temperature and light, and is not gov-
erned by the food supply.

The results were conﬁrmed with other
squirrels. Animals couldn’t be deceived into
hibernating prematurely by gradually short-

ening day lengths in their artiﬁcial world

when it was only late summer outside. Nor
could they be induced to awaken from hiber-
nation too soon by lengthening the days.
Experiments in temperature changes were
equally unproductive.

    

Photo by Dorothy Belfi

Mary Ellen Fannon and Gar Gilbert have fun
with stuﬁed animals at Animal Kingdom
Ball held at the Hotel Pierre in January to
beneﬁt the Adoption Service Clinic.

 

The Dog in Literature
(Continued from Page 10)

Sir Walter Scott owned, loved and wrote
of dogs with both warmth and knowledge.
One of the characters in Gay Mannering, a
sturdy Scotch farmer and'dog breeder, was
immortalized when his name was given to
a valiant little terrier, the Dandie Dinmont.
The hero of this same novel owned a dog
with the delightfully appropriate name of
Wasp, who is “his constant companion.”
When his owner becomes embroiled with
some rufﬁans, Wasp “acted gloriously during
the skirmish, annoying the heels of the
enemy, and repeatedly effecting a moment’s
diversion in his master’s favor.”

In Scott’s The Talisman the hound Roswal
almost loses his life attempting to save the
banner of England, and later “with a furious
and savage yell” falls upon and discloses
the villain. King Richard speaks this glow-
ing eulogy: “The Almighty, who gave the
dog to be companion of our pleasures and
our toils, hath invested him with a nature
noble and incapable of deceit. He forgets
neither friend nor foe, remembers and with
accuracy both beneﬁt and injury. He hath a
share of man’s intelligence, but no share of
man’s falsehood.”

In all of literature there is no ﬁner tribute

to the dog.

21

 

 

 




 

LETTERS

 

 

Canadian Visitor

> Your wonderful headquarters will be one of my
most inspiring memories of New York and I will
sing its praises to all Americans I meet. Long ago,
in China, I had read of Mr. Bergh’s work but
little did I think I should one day see the outcome
of his ideal. I have sent all the literature you so
kindly gave me to our Vancouver SPCA where I
am sure it will be prized and copied or applied.

F. MacGregor

Vancouver, Canada

From Youngsters

> On behalf of Class 7 sp 1 I would like to
thank you for the very enjoyable trip we took to
the ASPCA. The ﬁlms we saw were excellent and
the new aspect of becoming a veterinarian 0r
humanitarian presented itself to me. As we toured
through the adoption centers I realized that the
animals have personalities of their own and I
learned to have more respect and show more kind-
ness toward my own pets.

Helen Friedman
Junior High School 127

V Editor’s Note: Susan Schmid, 8, of Bearesford,
South Dakota, who adopted Taﬂee from the

ASPCA, sent this drawing in a letter to her aunt
in New York.

 

b I am enclosing one dollar so I can become a
junior member. I love animals. I hope to be a
wonderful friend with you because I love the
ASPCA. I also have a club with my best friend
called the Animal Lover’s Club. We both are ani-

mal lovers. We have my tent for our club house.

We like to help animals live. I am 9 years old.
My friend is 10.

Beverly Barton

Smoke Rise, Butler, N. J.

Kudos for the Bronx Shelter

> Thanks for the pup we got from your shelter.
I want to thank Mr. Bromley who took so much
of his time to show us through. I’ve never seen
an animal shelter as clean as that. I wish every
town could have one like it, and to have a person
with the interest in animals that Mr. Bromley has
to run it.

Colin D. Colbert

Bay City, Michigan

> May I congratulate you on the type of person-
nel you have at Morris Park Avenue—especially
Dewey Farrar and I. Bellitti. My 11 year old
Cairn terrier was lost for ﬁve days and when
brought in by J. Bellitti was injured badly. He
found three boys playing with the dog in a box
near Fordham University—ﬁve miles from where
the dog was lost. The dog had a New York license
tag on. I am deeply indebted to these men. They
are dedicated—and even if my dog does not re-
cover, I thank them sincerely.

Mrs. T. C. O’Brien
New Rochelle, N. Y.

Stray Cat Picked Up

> Last night I called your Jamaica shelter to call
for a very sick stray cat. The young man who
answered the phone was very courteous and help-
ful. In a short time a very polite man came and
was very humane in the way he handled the cat.

A. M. Conaway
Woodside, N. Y.

Cruelty Case Reported

b I received the most courteous and prompt atten-
tion possible regarding a dog in the neighborhood
which was not treated properly. The society sure
was on the job.
Mrs. E. Sievers
Brooklyn, N. Y.

25

 

 

 

 

 

 




   

 

 

 

How Puss ’n Boots Whole-Fish Formula build

health, beauty and vigor in

 

Natural life balance of fresh-
caught whole fish keeps cats

P2115 n Boom.

health and energy.

 

Puss ’n Boots balanced formula is rich in all the
Vital nutrients known to be needed by cats of all
ages. In addition to an abundance of high-quality
proteins from the costly ﬁsh ﬁllets, Puss ’n Boots

' Cgesable and retained in Pmr’ 22 Boots

 

cats of all ages

   

 

._ mined m P115592 B00

and kittens Sparkling With ‘. sumptioi’t; but returned in for medicinal use, butane“

 

Bone small»; for vaiuable calcium and
phosphorus. Made soft crumbly and di- , '

 

- e u n . . H. . . . ' Ch V, ”I. ."
SUppllCS essentlal VltamlnS and mlnerals and 8 Coast Fisheries DIVISIon of The Quaker Oats Crnpo:y «cogo mozs

bonus of Vitamin B1, carefully balanced with
healthful, tasty cereals.

You can quickly see the beneﬁts of feeding 8-02. and 15-02. sizes;

Puss ’n Boots regularly—in your cat’s health,
beauty, Vigor. At food and pet stores everywhere.

PUSS'n BOOTS

Rich in the nutrients that are rich in health

   

Packed in

 

 

 




 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

ASPCA Opens Animalport
at Idlewild

FIRST U. S. SHELTER
FOR ANIMAL
AIR TRAVELERS

When the new Sydney H. Coleman Ani-
malport opened its doors on January 29,
another ﬁrst was chalked up for The Ameri-
can Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals, the oldest and largest humane or-
ganization in the country. For the modern
$275,000 animal hostel is the ﬁrst accommo-

Early Animalport customers include two
race horses and a pair of Nubian goats.

 

dation in the United States built solely to
tend the needs of animal air travelers.

Named for one of the greatest humani-
tarians of our time, Sydney H. Coleman, who
from 1931 to 1952 was executive vice-presi-
dent of the Society, the Animalport is lo-
cated in the cargo area of New York Inter-
national Airport, ldlewild, Queens.

Through this great aerial gateway pass
100,000 animals a year, many of which
experience a lay-over before being picked
up by consignees or shipped out of the
country.

Heretofore, such animals were housed in
cargo buildings. Cargo handlers tended and
fed them as best they could. But often build-
ings were inadequate and the men unpre-
pared to deal with unusual problems.

The two-story beige brick Animalport
is designed to handle anything from an ele-
phant to a parakeet. Both were present on
the opening day, when ASPCA president
William Rockefeller accepted the lease for
the land on which the structure is built
from Donald V. Lowe, Chairman of the
Port of New York Authority, which operates
the airport.

The dedication ceremonies were attended

 




 

 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

Anal

ASPCA president William Rockefeller, right,
accepts lease from Donald V. Lowe, Chair—

man of the Port of New York Authority.

350 ATTEND
ANIMALPORT DEDICATION

Actress Tina Louise with Navy men and Billy
XIV, goat mascot of the U. S. Naval Acad-
emy, who flew in from Annapolis for opening.

   

The ofﬁcial dedication of the Animalport,
attended by several hundred visitors, in-
cluded the unveiling of a memorial plaque,
bearing the inscription “The. Sydney H.
Coleman Animalport of The American So-
ciety for the Prevention of Cruelty to Ani-
mals. Founded 1866.”

In turning over to the Society the 20-year
lease for the land the Honorable Donald V.
Lowe hailed the new Animalport as “a much-
needed addition to the cargo handling facili-
ties of this great Airport.”

In accepting the lease ASPCA president

 

William Rockefeller said, “Since animals
are necessarily considered cargo, because
they are legally viewed as property owned
by human beings, their welfare is therefore
the responsibility of human beings.

“This is as true in today’s air-age as it
was in 1866 when The American Society for
the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals was
founded by Henry Bergh to make certain
that Americans lived up to this responsi-
bility. Therefore, I am humble and happy on
this proud occasion, 92 years later, to rep-
resent the ASPCA and announce that in
rhythm with the times we are about to
fulﬁll a brand new need where animals are
concerned—«a need which could scarcely
have. been foreseen by Henry Bergh.”

Other speakers were general manager
Warren W. McSpadden, former president
Hugh E. Paine, Dr. Leonard J. Goss, Assis-
tant Director of the New York Zoological
Society, and James R. Coleman, son of the
late executive vice-president for whom the
building was named.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

  




 

 

 

 

 

This article is condensed from a talk
given by Miss Henley, ASPCA Instruc-
tor in Education, at the New York Pub-
lic Library in collaboration with New
York City College. Miss Henley invites
readers to suggest their own favorite
dog stories for possible inclusion in a
bibliography of dogs in literature she
plans to issue.

 

 

 

When at last the king arrives at the gates
of Heaven, only his dog remains close by
his side. But the dog is refused admittance.
So the king offers to make a supreme sacri-
ﬁce and remain outside also, for “to desert
a faithful friend is as great a sin as to
slay a priest.” There is a happy ending how-
ever, because the dog turns into a god and
both enter the gates.

Another type of happy ending is found
in the touching story of Argus, the proud
hound of Homer’s Odyssey. When Odysseus

THE DOG IN LITERATURE

by Diana Henley

S warrior, fellow hunter, guardian of

property, and just plain pet, the dog

has played an important role in man’s sage

since the dawn of human history. He has

played his part, too, in myth, fable, poetry
and literature.

There’s a very old and famous legend
which beautifully illustrates his unwavering
loyalty. One day Adam called together all
the beasts of the ﬁeld and the forest. Sud-
denly a tremendous rift appeared in the
earth between Adam and Eve, and the
other animals. Rapidly the crack widened
and deepened. In terror lest they be sepa-
rated forever from all the beasts, Adam
called: “Jump, those of you who will risk
falling into the chasm, so that we shall re-
main together always.”

Not one animal moved. And then sudden-
ly one small creature ran forward and
launched itself in a desperate spring. A brief
scramble, a shake, and the dog trotted over
to his new masters, tail wagging eagerly. A
pact had been made, never to be broken.

Mutual loyalty is illustrated in a story
from the Rig Veda, one of the ancient,
sacred books of India. A king is climbing
slowly up to Heaven, surrounded at ﬁrst by
many friends. But the way is steep and
long, and one by one his friends fall behind.

10

returns after his nineteen year absence, he
is unrecognized till he reaches the gate
where Argus lies, old, sick and neglected.
Nevertheless, he “became aware of Odys-
seus’ presence, he wagged his tail and
dropped both his ears, though he lacked the
strength now to come any nearer his
master.” After the greeting, during which
the proud hero “wiped away a tear,” the
old dog dies satisﬁed.

Literature is bursting with dog portraits
——heroic, funny, appealing and appalling.
Remember Bill Sykes in Charles Dickens’
Oliver Twist, with his “white shaggy dog,
with his face scratched and torn in twenty
places . . . winking his very ill-looking eyes
about twenty times in a minute,” and “who
by a certain malicious licking of his lips
seemed to be meditating an attack upon the
legs of the ﬁrst gentleman 0r lady he might
encounter in the streets . . .”l

The same author draws a very different
dog portrait in Dora Copperﬁeld’s little black
Jip, who was “in the habit of putting his
foot in the salt or the melted butter.” Here
is the perfect prototype of the lapdog,
jealous, spoiled, full of ridiculous tricks and
rages. And yet, the very same night that his
young owner dies, Jip “stretches himself as
if to sleep, and with a plaintive cry, is dead.”

(Continued on Page 2])




 

 

SUBWAY EXT

for cats

 

Kitty is docile as she's carried up the ladder
to safety. Police and subway workers help.

14

 

In a typical rescue of a cat trapped in the
subway, ASPCA’s Joseph Schlesinger (kneel-
ing) and police use crowbar to lift grating.

Arecent newspaper article by an imagina-
tive reporter told of an “especially
sinewy and disheveled breed of cat” living
underground in the New York City subway
system. We don’t believe it for a second.

True, a cat’s natural curiosity will lead it
to investigate grating-covered openings, man-
holes, tracks and overhead scaffolding. But
most of the cats can and do get out the
same way they came in.

And the ASPCA helps those who can’t.
With the freely-given aid of subway main-
tenance men, and frequently the police, our
men lift gratings, break through sidewalks,
slide down ladders, squeeze through narrow
openings to reach trapped cats. If the cat is
on the tracks, a subway track walker, who
does a highly specialized and dangerous job,
often enters the cavern from below, gets the
cat and brings it out to us.

Above ground again. ASPCA rescues many
cats every year. Others get out themselves.




 

 

 

 
 
  

~i
c i“

 

     

l!“

 

I
‘

n - ’ 9 u
l ludge AUSTINS best of feed!
KIBBLED .- Austin’s All-In-One is laboratory-tested by experts, kennel-woven
by champions. That’s how you know it’s got the right amounts of
essential food ingredients in the right proportion! It’s baked . . . it’s

super-convenient and economical, too — contains 3 times the food
value of canned dog food at 1/2 the price!

A PRODUCT OF SﬂﬂSﬂiﬂﬂ BZECZIZZS‘, mc.

Champion Miss HI H0

AKC-H-442866

 

 

Tale of a Lost Dog

A New York City dog license tag is
credited with reuniting a lost dog and his
owner in Buenos Aires, Argentina ——-— 6,000
miles away.

The story begins in Cordoba City, Argen-
tina. From here the dog started out with
his owner for Buenos Aires, a distance of
500 miles. Then he traveled to New York,
where he stayed long enough to get a dog
license, become so ill he nearly died, recover
through careful treatment, and travel back
to South America, only to get lost three days
after his arrival.

He was found on a street in Buenos Aires

by Jorge Enrique Keil. His only identiﬁca-
tion was an ASPCA license tag. Mr. Keil
wrote us, and immediately we wired back
the name and former New York address
of the owner, Francisco Vargas, who had
been living in Forest Hills, Queens. With
this information Mr. Keil was able to track
down his Argentine address.

The dog is now back home with his
owner, thanks to his ASPCA license tag and
his alert benefactor. As Mr. Keil wrote us:
“This goes to prove how important it is to
have a license from your ASPCA.”

We couldn’t have phrased the moral
better ourselves.

 

According to law, all dogs in New York City, regardless of age, must have a license.
Send check or money order for $3 to the ASPCA Shelter in your borough before April 30.
A license tag on your dog’s collar is your best insurance that he will be returned if lost.
Make sure he wears it.

18

 

 




 

 

your dog needs

ALPO

100% MEAT

Lean meat, good meat. . . chunks, not chopped.

 

 

Not a speck of cereal filler in ALPO.
Just fragrant wholesome

meat. . . in chunks. ALPO.

 

 

Rent Law Protects Dog Owners

It would seem that the New York residen-
tial rent control law protects not merely
tenants but also their dogs. In Manhattan
and the Bronx it is apparently becoming well
established that even though a lease may
prohibit a tenant from housing a dog in
his rent controlled apartment, the landlord
may not evict the tenant if he disregards
that provision of his lease.

In a recent case in Bronx Municipal Court
it was held that “the mere keeping of a
dog in an apartment in contravention of the
terms of a lease is not a breach of a sub-
stantial obligation of the tenancy.”

Thus the Appellate Term’s decision seems
to extend the protection of rent control to
canine occupants of apartments. No similar
decision relating to cats has been found,
but presumably the same rule would apply.

However, the rule has not been tested in
the case of de-controlled apartments, and of
course it does not follow that a tenant whose
dog is making a real nuisance of itself can-

22

not be evicted. “Nuisance” is another, and
different, ground for eviction under the Rent
and Evictions Regulations.

But presumably the courts would be re-
luctant to ﬁnd that pets constituted a nui-
sance unless other tenants freely testify as
to the objectionable characteristics com-
plained of.

 

Animal Protection, in Twelfth
Year, Has 15,000 Circulation

In its twelfth year of publication ANIMAL
PROTECTION now has a circulation of over
15,000 copies. We have readers in 38 states
in the United States, from Maine to Florida
and from New York to California, as well
as in Alaska and Puerto Rico.

Our circulation also extends to thirteen
foreign countries on four continents. In-
cluded are Canada, Mexico, Bermuda, Ger-
many, England, France, Switzerland, Argen-
tina, Uruguay, Colombia, Brazil, Australia

and New Zealand.

 

 




PRODUCTS AND SERVICES

 

ANIMAL TRAPS

 

  
      
    

CATCH THEM ALIVE AND UNHURT!

       

  
 

Trap VIII" Catches
Can’t Harm ‘5“? More!

Children Easy to
or Pets 5?? 1 ~ ”W" Use

Amazing HAVAHART trap captures raiding rats, rabbits! squir-
rels, skunks, weasels, etc. Takes minks, coons Without injuring
them. straying pets and poultry are released unhurt. Easy to
set —— open ends gives animal conﬁdence. Fully guaranteed. No
jaws or springs to break. Rustproof. Sizes for all needs.
Send coupon for valuable FREE 36-page booklet on trapping
secrets.

HAVAHART 211-R Water Street, Ossining. N.Y.
Please send me free 36-page booklet and price list.

Name

 

Address

 

 

ANIMAL PHOTOGRAPHER

 

 

 

 

 

CECIL
CLOVELY

PHOTOGRAPHS
YOUR
PETS PERSONALITY .-

310 w. 86th ST.
N.Y.C. 24 so 7-7520

   

 

CREMATORIES — ANIMALS

 

PREPARE FOR THE LOSS
OF YOUR BELOVED P'ELT
Call or write for booklet "A"

MARBLE HILL CREMATORY for PET ANIMALS

418 West 219th Street New York City
LOrraine 7-3800
VISITORS WELCOME

 

 

DOG BEDS

 

HAND WOVEN WICKER CAT BASKET or TOY DOG BASKET

15” Long—Bottom
Cedar Treated Cotton Pillow

$495
Postpaid
No C.0.D.’s
EMPIRE BASKET CO.

 

 

.O. Box 65, B'kIyn II, N. Y.

 

DOG & CAT CARRYING CASES

 

CARRYING CASES

. convenient light
weight fibre

. comfortable side
ventilation

. assorted sizes
black or tweed fibre

Distributor Inquiries
' ited

EMPIRE
FIBRE CASE CO.
56 E. 11gb STREET
Phone; 055 450680

 

 

 

 

26

DOG 8. CAT FOOD

 

Veterinarians recommend . . .
—- BLU-BO —
For DOGS and CATS

All pure canned Horsemeat and Beet

BLU-BO Products Co. 9" ngghSQ-hggc

 

 

ALPO. CHUNKY. CADILLAC. BIG BET
Dog and Cat Foods
KITTY LITTER. KLEEN KITTY. etc.

ANDREW GOETZ'S SONS. INC.

1144 Flushing Avenue Brooklyn 37. N.Y.
HYacinth 7-5500

 

 

WAGNER BROS. FEED CORP.

Importers and Distributors

1160 MYRTLE AVE. BROOKLYN 21. N.Y.
GLenmore 5-2719

 

 

 

DOG 8. CAT FURNISHINGS

 

D O G F A S H I O N S
255 East 74th St.' New York 21l N. Y.

CUSTOM MADE
By Appointment
Call TRatalgar 9-4080

 

 

FRaninn 4-5647 By Appointment Only
Pixie Gaye .
DOG GROOMING SALON
Expert Clipping and Dog Accessories
26 Franklin Avenue Hewlett. L. l.

 

 

 

DOG KENNELS

 

CANINE COLLEGE

TRAINING —- TRIMMING — SUPPLIES

BOARDING
New York Office Conn. Office
449 E. 86th ST. WEST REDDING. CONN.
TRafaIgar 6-2417 WEbster 8-2124

 

 

GERMAN SHEPHERDS OF QUALITY

Good Bone Structure. Good Temperament. Con-
tormity and Coat. tor Show or Obedience.

WILLANA KENNELS

I 1508 Burnett Ave. Union-A. New Jersey

 

 

 

 

 

 




All . 1/ %% ::«\\

\\\\

IS WORTH
INSURING

Everybody agrees that pedigreed dogs are valuable properties, worth insuring. But many non-
pedigreed dogs — hunting dogs, hounds, seeing-eye dogs and the like — also represent sub-
stantial financial investments to their owners. At remarkably low rates, for the first time, you can
insure the life of any valuable dog through Animal Insurance Company of America, the only
company exclusively devoted to dog life insurance. Kennels and breeders, as well as individual

owners, are eligible. For complete Information Bulletin and application, mail coupon today.

PROTECT YOUR INVESTMENT AT LOWEST POSSIBLE RATES
Insurance against death from any cause except poisoning.
lowest dog insurance rates: $8.00 per $100 insurance. Minimum premium — $10.
Deductible Plan for insuring 5 or more dogs: $4.00 per $100 insurance. Minimum premium - $20.
No veterinary medical certification required for insurance of $500 or less.
Full coverage while in transit.
Age eligibility — 6 months to 9 years.
insurable limit per dog — $13,000.

Claims Paid Promptly (actual case from our files). Just one day after a $200 policy was written — before the policy had even
been delivered to owner— insured dog was killed by hit- and- -run driver. Full $200 claim was paid within 10 days!

mma! Insurance co. of America Dept AP
92 Liberty Street New York 6, N Y. "

i am interested in insuring the life of my dog Please send
me information Bulletin and application

Please check: [3 individual [3 Kennel El Breeder

in-q-Iu-----’--c----U-»-u-rulv--:vfl§'
A

u.
I‘
‘I
I
I
I
I
I
I
O
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
l
I
0
I
I
1
I
l
I
I
I
I
1
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
l
l
I
I
I
l
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
l
I
I
I
I
I
l
I
I
I
I

 




