 

 

 

  
  
   
  
     

sends this picture showing the Whitsuntide display at the
Woodside Cafe, Northenden. In the picture are animal
defenders Robert Loynes, Chris Lomas and Andrew Harrison

West London Branch. A collection at the Saxone Shoe
Company Store in Oxford Street brought in £9 145. 1061.
The collectors were again Mrs Goodall and Mrs Vaccaro.

LARGE BEGGING DOG COLLECTION
BOXES

Somerset, North Branch. A box placed at Burnham—on—Sea
by the aux hon sec, Mr R. S. Dillon, brought in £3 165. 4d.
in a period of three weeks.

ClC'UL’ClOil Division. We are informed that the box pur—
chased by the Division has raised to date the sum of
£20.

Gloucester, Mid Branch. Mrs Porri, the branch hon sec
writes that the large begging dog collection box collected
£5 at Painswick, per Mr and Mrs H. Wright—Smith, the
co aux hon secs.

Cornwall, \West Branch. Mrs Pawson, aux hon sec for
Portreath, reports that during the weeks the box was placed
on the beach, the proceeds amounted to £3.

HOUSE TO HOUSE COLLECTIONS

(We give, wherever possible, the place at which the house—to—
house collection was made, and the name of the organizer or
organizers. )

Sandwich, Miss Woodrufl, aux hon sec, £31 185.; Buckle—
bury Upper, Mrs Hamilton, aux hon sec, £19 25. 10d.; Gt
Houghton, The Rev Rowan—Robinson, £2 55. 6d.; Felix—
Stowe, Miss Smith, aux hon sec, £51 15.; Nailsworth, Miss
Brown, aux hon sec, £7 15. 3d.; Newark, Mrs Aldred,
£1 75. 11d.; Yardley Gobion, Miss Lewis, £6 105.; Barn—
burgh, Mrs Mennell, £8 75. 6d.; Liskeard, Mrs Hoar, aux
hon sec, £15 35. 9d.; Wood Green, Mrs Strachan, aux hon
36C, £6 05. 4d.; Mirﬁeld, Miss Duxbury, aux hon sec,
£46 185. 3d.; Rolleston, Mrs Archer, aux hon sec, £40;
Newhaven, Miss Budd, aux hon sec, £34 25. 6d,;Walsingham
and Wells, Mrs Webb, aux hon sec, £33 105. 1d.; Witherley,
Mrs Tucker, aux hon sec, £3 175. 2d.; Brotton, Mrs Tom—
linson, aux hon sec, £20 65. 9d.; Buckfast, Miss Carus,
aux hon sec, £8 185.; Rayham, Mrs Le Strange, aux hon
36C, £8 95. 6d.; Kelvedon, Mrs Hunt, aux hon sec, £12 65. 461.;
Aldeburgh, Miss Winn, aux hon sec, £131 85. 761.; Edgware,
Miss Cole, aux hon sec, £6 25. 3d.; Radlett, Mrs Cochrane,
aux hon sec, £4 165. 4d.; Avening, Miss Edmonds, aux
hon sec, £2 25. 6d.; Nelson, Mr C.Whiteside, aux hon sec,
£14.

RSPCA Photographic Competition

The results for October (the concluding month) in thls
COmpetition are:

15t Prize (£1 15.:) V. Turner, 137 Walton Street, Oxford.
(Subject: Head of a dog.)

2nd Prize (155. 6d.): Mr George Mowat, 7 Forrester
Road, Edinburgh, 12. (Subject: Great tit and apple blossom.)
3rd Prize (105. 661.): Mrs Iris Hardwick, 48 Esplanade,
Burnham-on—Sea, Somerset. (Subject: Cats on a chair.)
1 (The ﬁnal results in this competition will be announced
ater.

" mmmmxrmmrmmmmmmmmrmmmmu

c,

CHRISTMAS CARDSAN DCALEN DARS

0r.

i

There is still time to order. Please send a g
stamped addressed envelope to RSPCA, Q
I05 Jermyn Street, London, SWI, for illus- é
’ trated pamphlet g

umrwrmmmn

“(£221.

mmrmmxrmmmmrmmmmrmmz‘mmmm .

 

 

 

TEMPLE COX CAPTIVE
BOLT SLAUGHTERING
GUNS

Specially recommended and used by the RSPCA

THREE MODELS—ALL SILENT IN
ACTION

‘UNIVERSAL’ for all animals
‘SMALLS’ for all small animals
‘MARK’ 6’ for all animals. Designed for heavy

use in large Abattoirs and Freezing Works

 

TEMPLE COX DEVELOPMENT CO. LTD
HIGH STREET, BROMLEY, KENT

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

FLAG DAY

 

 

  
  
   
      

GOODS
Celluloid Buttons

LIST ON APPLICATION

THE UNIVERSAL BUTTON CO. LTD.
1-9 Birkbeck Street, Bethnal Green, LONDON, E.2

TeIephone: BIShopsgate 5750 Telegrams: ‘Unibutco Edo‘




 

 

 

December 1954

THEANIMAL WORLD 143

 

 

Mrs ]. Robson, King’s Lynn aux hon sec, presents the cup
to the winner in the Magdalen Annual Pet Show

Macclesﬁeld, South-East Cheshire and Buxton The vicar,
the Rev H. L. Williams (who is branch chairman) conducted
the Animal Sunday Service at St James’s Church, Sutton.
Miss Wain, branch hon see, was present as was Senior
Inspector Cook. Col. Coventry, branch organizer, gave the
address.

Mrs Hawthorn. Sandbach aux hon sec, organized a whist
drive and raised £16 103. for branch funds.
Merioneth Mr Lionel P. Walker, branch chairman, pre—
sided over the annual meeting and had the support of the
branch president, Mrs Lloyd Alexander. The RSPCA
meritorious silver badge was presented to Mrs Mather,
branch hon sec. Wing/Comdr Hillier addressed the meeting
and a report was submitted by Senior Inspector R. T. Jones.
Middlesex—North West Mr Soames, branch chairman and
hon sec, accompanied by Senior Inspectors Hancock and
Slater attended a presentation ceremony at the Community
Centre, South Ruislip, when the chairman of the Northwood
and Ruislip Urban District Council presented the RSPCA’s
certiﬁcate of merit to twelve boys. The boys received their
award for their courage and humanity in rescuing a heifer
from the river Chess.

Mr R. Soames, branch hon sec, reports that the branch
annual sale was held at Claremont School, Kenton, and
raised £55 for branch funds.

Norfolk—Mid and Norwich Miss E. Cole, Cringleford aux
hon sec, organized a bring-and-buy sale in the garden of her
home and raised £56 for branch funds.

Norfolk West Miss Ann Lambert, Magdalen aux hon sec,
organized a whist drive and dance in the Magdalen village
and church hall. Chief Inspector Morrison acted as master
of ceremonies and £8 23. 6d. was raised for branch funds.
Oxford Canon Martin presided over the branch annual
meeting. Mrs Lund, branch hon sec, and Miss Griffin,
asst hon sec, were present. Mr C. R. Davies, branch organ—
1261‘, spoke on the general work of the RSPCA. Awards
were made to Miss B. A. Cusdin and Chief Inspector Wa1te.
Preston and District At the Chorley Unitarian Church
three services in one day were devoted to Animal Sunday.
The services were conducted by the Rev Pritchard; Mr J.

RSPCA caravan at
Southampton Show

Fletcher, Chorley aux chairman, read the lessons and the
address was given by Col. Coventry, branch organizer.
Rotherham and District Mrs Mitchell of Thurcroft organized
a co},lection at Thurcroft Pit and also a sale of woollies and
raised a total of £12 7s. 9d. for branch funds.

Shropshire Mrs Dunning, Horseley aux hon sec, reports
that the Lawley County School held an Animal Sunday
Service at St John’s Church, Lawley. Mr J. Lineton, head-
master, gave the address.

*

Mrs Meredith, Shrewsbury aux hon sec, reports that the
aux Organized a rummage sale in the Tankerville Hall and
raised over £30 for branch funds.

Somerset—North Mrs Coombs organized a whist drive
and raised £2 103. 6d. for branch funds.

Staffordshire North Mrs A. Berry, Stoke-on-Trent aux hon
sec, organized a collection at the Whitﬁeld Colliery, by kind
permission of the National Coal Board. Animal Defenders
helped, and £15 ls. was raised for branch funds. -

Mrs Berry, branch joint hon sec, reports that £59 1S. 7d.
was taken for branch funds at a match on Stoke football
ground. *

Surrey—Epsom and District Mrs Tudor Rees, Tadworth
aux hon sec, reports that a jumble sale raised £97 195. 8d.
for branch funds.

Surrey—Sutton and District Mrs Allibert, branch hon sec
and Council Member, reports that a sale of work organized
by Miss Sanders (Cheam) raised the sum of £35 for the
branch clinic.

Sussex—West, and Brighton Mrs Sturt, Henﬁeld aux hon
sec, organized a whist drive and raised £7 105. for branch
funds.

*

Mr W. C. Brown, branch sec, reports: About a hundred
members and supporters attended the branch annual meet-
ing held at the.Hote1 Metropole, Brighton, at which the
Mayor of Brighton, Alderman W. G. Dudeney, presided.
A talk given by Major Chapman, branch organizer, was
appreciated. '

Recent fund-raising activities have been a sale organized
by Mrs Cooper, Harting aux hon sec, £13 53.; a gymkhana
at Worthing organized by Miss Hussey £15, and a gymkhana
at Patching jointly managed by Miss Butcher, Miss Cooper
and Miss Warren £10.

Walsall Miss D. Stanley organized a combined bring-and-
buy sale and autumn fair at ‘Leycroft’, Mellish Road, Walsall
by kind permission of His Honour Judge H. A. Tucker and
Mrs Tucker. The Mayor, Coun H. S. Gwinnutt, and the
Mayoress were present. One hundred pounds was raised
for branch funds. (Report received from Mr S. Long, branch
hon sec and treasurer.)

Worcester—West and Malvern Mrs Salmon, Tewkesbury
aux hon sec, reports that an Animal Sunday Service was
held at Forthampton Church and the vicar, the Rev Michael
Seacome, conducted the Service. A collection was made
for branch funds.

Mrs A. Harrison, branch hon sec, and helpers organized
a sale and raised £76 65. for branch funds.

 

 




 

I
l
!

 

141‘..V1

1
l
I
I
l
1'
1
1
i
’1
i

 

-_u., . ‘~;_‘~‘

 

 

_.(, 5,,

fl
(1/
1/
[I
I
/
:4

 

.
G
w
.h

m
J.

 

\: 5.

 

 

 

 
 

~ ‘ 4 ‘ .ﬁr nlrg‘luu .nuun. w.
s! It - _
,
,
‘1
|- P: ilwnhrt.-.$ii .
.
,
. ~_
I A
1 \
.
, .
n . u
.
,
U,r|«.\$l ‘3 I J u
..
. 5*? 1 t. . ‘ \ {ﬁlillﬂuh‘llrdu‘x‘rﬂﬁlilutl‘ la I¢I|‘ ..I
, i \1‘liix‘ LxﬂNuhll‘JleHuﬂl. \. 4 \
V .lh‘u... C1711): hi‘u‘IVruélufa‘ .1» 4 y ‘
,n .In WIOA‘V‘IJ \ 2‘ I x
. _
a.»
v .
c . h f . . ‘ x .. ~ ,
rt. I 4‘ . , x \ « n! , ' 4\ .rl / n , .. ‘f. \r. , . ‘ ixy/ !; ‘ , . x . s. . ‘ . 2.... 5.. . 2 ‘l . ., ‘A )r.‘ 1 ‘ .Lr ‘ ‘ L i y , f1 ‘ L ‘ ‘ ‘ , {5“

 




 

 

 

December 1954

THE ANIMAL WORLD 137

 

PESTS BILL

Tributes to the work of the RSPCA are recorded
in a recent Hansard (October 22, 1954) report—
ing the debate on the Second Reading of the
Pests Bill.

Sir Thomas Moore, RSPCA Council Member,
sa1 :

‘. . . Since the Minister has referred to the ex
gratia payment (for a humane trap) that he has
in mind for awarding to inventors, I think it
would be appropriate here to mention that before
the war the RSPCA offered a reward of £300 for
an alternative humane trap. The reward was paid
to a gamekeeper called Sawyer. His was an admire
able trap in that it killed without pain or mutila—

tion . . .’
*

‘. . . The Minister said yesterday that he did
not agree and could not make an Order (forbid—
ding the artiﬁcial spreading of myxomatosis). I
asked him whether he supposed that this disease
could be spread to other animals and he said that
he thought not. I have here the report of an
inspector of the RSPCA who says that he has
seen that “seagulls, carrion crows and magpies
are eating many of the dead rabbits. I have actually
seen a black backed gull pecking the eyes out of
a rabbit before it was dead.” If that is so, it seems
to me obvious that other animals will share in
the eating of these myxomatosis rabbits and I
cannot conceive other than that sooner or- later
the disease will spread, not only to other animals,
but possibly to humans as well . . .’

*

‘. . . Again, I come back to the work of the
humane societies. Since this evil thing got its teeth
into the country, the RSPCA has set up mercy
squads. At present there are forty/three such
mercy squads, operating all over the country, and
up to date they have destroyed, by shooting,
278,509 of these infected rabbits . . .’

*

Dr Horace King said: ‘I wish to support what
has been said by the hon Member for Ayr
(Sir T. Moore) about mercy killing and to urge
not only the farmers to cooperate with the
RSPCA but also the Minister himself to do every—
thing he can . . .’

‘k

‘. . . Hansard is a record for future generations.
Let them know that in 1954 a Christian nation
tolerated the spreading of a disease about which
an RSPCA inspector wrote:

“I have never been so terribly sickened and
disgusted, and I am still haunted by the sight
of those creatures. Without any shadow of

Cantinued in next column

DOCKING AND NICKING
OF HORSES

Only a few years ago, fashion decreed that the
tails of horses should be docked.

The long struggle of the RSPCA against the
cruel and foolish fashion is once again recalled
by the fact that from January 1, 1955, it becomes
an offence to import a docked horse into the
United Kingdom. (The landing of such a horse is
permitted only in special circumstances when the
Customs and Excise authorities allow it or there
is a licence issued by the Minister of Agriculture
and Fisheries.)

Next year’s ban on importation is imposed by
a clause in the Docking and Nicking of Horses
Act, 1949; the clause banning docking and nicka
ing of horses in this country took effect on
January 1, 1950. The five years grace given to
importers is now at an end and the time will
soon be here when a docked healthy horse will
rarely be seen in this country. Thus ends another
of the cruelties of fashion.

OBITUARY

With sincere regret we report the following
deaths:

Mr D. S. Morrison, hon treasurer of Cheshire
(Altrincham) Branch for 27 years; Mrs N.
Seymour, Chairman of Wallasey Dogs’ Home,
Mr H. Ransome, hon treasurer of Dartford
auxiliary; Miss Honor Jeffery, a supporter; Mrs
Bevan, a supporter; Miss M. Jones, former hon
sec of Rugby Branch; Mrs Markham, a sup»
porter; Miss L. E. Holness, a supporter.

 

Pests Bill: continued from preceding column

doubt, they suffer intense agonies and miseries

for at least ten days.”
Yet by law we have limited the agony of the gin
trap to twentyvfour hours. People motoring
through the British countryside this summer have
seen the creatures, blinded, swollen, crawling
about and waiting for the mercy of death. Those
writing in to the RSPCA have spoken about
rabbits in their blind agony throwing themselves
against walls . . .’

‘. . .I am glad that tribute has been paid to
these mercy killers. As some measure of what has
happened in our countryside, we have been told
that more than 250,000 suﬂ’ering creatures have
been put out of their misery by the RSPCA——
a fraction of the vast number of rabbits that have
died by myxomatosis . . .’

RSPCA CHRISTMAS CARDS
AND CALENDARS
THERE IS STILL TIME TO ORDER

 

 

 

 

 




 

ev‘cvs 4 is 744 3.4

 

 

ANIMAEHWORLD

THE OFFICIAL MAGAZINE ’OE THE RSPCA

 

 

Vol XLIX No 12 New Series DECEMBER 1954 PRICE THREEPENCE

4s. 6d. per annum. Post Paid

 

 

BEHIND THE SCENES

 

Above—forced by the whip to make a vulgar display. The

picture below was taken in the Kruger National Park,

South Africa, by Mr 1. Ross, Hon Treasurer of Germiston
(Transvaal) SPCA (affiliated to the RSPCA)

 

In the alertness of the public to all evidence of
animal suffering—an alertness that the RSPCA
has done so much to foster—the cause of animal
welfare has its best ally. The dog chained in a
yard, cattle overcrowded in a siding———all such
animals are likely to be seen by the public and

 

 

The pictures published with this article provide the

best argument for the RSPCA against performing

animals. Contrast the unnatural wild animal per-

formers with animals in their natural surroundings

at home. Notice the methods. of travel for animals

destined for zoos and circuses; discomfort must be
associated with these journeys

 

 

 

Mocked—but the dunce’s cap should not be on this head!

reported to the RSPCA. Sad as such animals are
——and we do not seek to underestimate their
sorry plight—there is always hope for the relief
of their distress. -

Yet, people so ready to recognize the
suffering involved in neglect and deliberate
cruelty are easily soothed by bright lights
and skilled advertising into accepting such
statements as that circus animals are happy
and that all the ‘cleverness’ exhibited in the
circus ring is ‘done by kindness’.

 




 

 

 

December 1954

THE ANIMAL WORLD 135

 

 

 

 

 
 

antics—no matter how he is feeling—at the set
programme times, or his master will very soon
go without his supper!

In face of the RSPCA’S admission that it is
difﬁcult to obtain evidence of tangible suffering
in the training and exhibition of performing
animals, the exhibitor of performing wild animals
will say: ‘The reason why proof is hard to obtain
is that there is no suffering!’ Against that, the
RSPCA can quote newspaper reports published
from time to time of attacks by performing
animals upon their trainers. This year, in England,
a bear mauled a circus trainer as.he entered the
cage backstage; in South Africa, a lion bit the
trainer and six other lions in the cage mauled
him at a circus performance.

Such acts hardly suggest that love and
conﬁdence had been inspired in the animals

Mrs A. Hollingsworth, Secretary-
lnspector of the RSPCA, Mombasa
Branch, sends the pictures on this
page. The crates above contain
zebra; the pictures right and left
show the apprehension of wild
animals facing the long trek to
life-long imprisonment

 
   
 
 
   
   
   
 

by their trainers’ much—publicised ‘kind-
ness’.

This year, too, a report from Italy spoke of an
attack by a tiger upon a trainer in the circus ring.
Equipped, in readiness for such an attack, with
the tools of ‘kindness’, the trainer took out a
knife and stabbed this animal to death.

What can the public do about performing
animal exhibitions? After all, they are legal.

First, the public can stay away from any enter!
tainment at which the exhibition of turns by
trained wild animals is one of the ‘attractions’.
This does not mean that the RSPCA is against
entertainment. It wishes to see happiness spread
as wide as possible—among animals, as well as
among human beings. There is no reason why
circuses should not continue to thrive, with

 

RSPCA Mombasa Branch intervened to have tarpaulins put over the trucks, right (below), in which wild animals were
exposed to the tropical sun; bewilderment is the lot of the animals on the journey from Africa to Europe. Notice how the
crate containing a live creature is lowered into the ship’s hold

34:5

 

 

 
 

 




.s,» _

December 1954 °

LANGUAGE MIXED, LESSON CLEAR

Reporting on a lecture visit to one school, the
RSPCA Welsh School Lecturer said: ‘The school
was a mixture of Welsh and English and that’s
how I gave my talk’. Her lesson was evidently
quite clear; she spent a pleasant hour at the school
and found the Headmaster very interested in the

RSPCA. ‘

Since the last report 175 lectures were given in

schools in Devon, Montgomeryshire, Isle of

Wight, West Sussex, Hoyland, Huddersﬁeld,
Tunbridge Wells, Farnham, Aldershot, Reading,
Presteigne, Llangollen area and Leicester. Four
Youth Clubs in Swansea were also addressed.

Twenty~eight new Animal Defender groups
were formed; 217 children joined the Head;
quarters Group.

RSPCA IN GIBRALTAR

When RSPCA Headquarters recently met a
request for ﬁnancial help from the Gibraltar
SPCA, whose members were eager to engage
an English helper for animal ﬁrst—aid on the Rock,
a suggestion was made that the Society should
become an overseas branch. The Gibraltar
Society’s committee agreed and the RSPCA
Gibraltar Branch is now in being with Lady
Mac Millan, wife of His Excellency the Governor,
as a member of the Branch Committee. The Chair,
man is Mr H. J. King, OBE, JP, and the Honorary
Secretary is Major R. Davenport, Assistant
Provost—Marshal.

 

Bronze Medals—continued from preceding column

who helped to rescue a cow and calf from the
River Wye at Preston—on’Wye; Leading Fireman
W. Burrow, who rescued a cat from a roof at
Chapel Street, DaltonainaFurness ; Police Constable
W. F. C. Davey and Fireman A. H. Young, who
rescued a steer from an adit at Lanoy, Coads
Green, Cornwall; Inspector Harland, who rescued
a lamb from a pipe line at Old Hutton, Kirkby
Lonsdale and Fireman R. Hartland, who rescued
a kitten from a disused well, Closes Cottages,
Hatﬁeld Bank, Norton, Worcs. The rescue of
dogs has earned RSPCA bronze medals for
Plir S. W. Webb, Fireman .L. A. Fardo and Mr C.

ant. .

Two men who made a; gallant effort atrescuing
a sheep from a cliff ledge at Sun Bank, Llangollen,
are Fireman E. Proctor and Fireman J. E. Jones.
They have each been awarded the “RSPCA bronze
medal.

Bars to RSPCA bronze medals already held
have gone to Divisional Ofﬁcer F. P. P. Raynes,
Who rescued a steer from an adit at Lanoy, Coads
Green, Cornwall and to Inspector F. T. C. Wood,
Who rescued a seagull trappedin a wood pile of
Lowestoft Ness Point. ‘- ' '

THE ANIMAL WORLD 139

SANCTUARY

(Reprinted from The Star, Shefﬁeld, with aCkIIOWc
ledgments)

We have pleasure in publishing this tribute to
the RSPCA Home, Spring Street, Shefﬁeld, from
Sister Hilda Marris, of 67 Bole Hill Lane:

I had promised some friends that I would take
them .to see Jacko, the monkey which was found
at Barnsley, homeless and despairing. '

So ﬁve hefty youngsters and I packed into my
aged car ‘Henrietta’ and off we went.

Jacko received us graciously, let the girls and
boys stroke him and rub his chest, and took
pea—nuts from them with his human little hands.

We saw the pigeons, recovering from various
stages of exhaustion, the tortoise and budgerigar
bOarders, the magpie which, it is hoped, will
recover from its wounds.

We saw, too, the dog and cat boarders, their
clean sensible sleeping places, the yards and runs
where they exercise freely, the labels on their
collars and cages so that they cannot get mixed
up, the affection which they receive, and which
they joyfully return, and the marvellous humanity
and method of it all.

I looked at Mrs Collier and her helpers with
awe. I cannot imagine how they get through so
much work, how they keep everything so whole,
some and tidy. '

Why, even the piece of material upon which
a dog sleeps is boiled before another dog uses it!

Heartache? Well, yes, a little. Those lost, una
claimed dogs, looking at me with anxious eyes
which said: ‘Gh, please, please take me home
with you; don’t let me die.’

And the mewing of the lost cats, including
three lovely blue—eyed grey kittens, which had
been pushed behind a dustbin and left to starve
——oh, yes, there is sorrow in it.

 

Mrs Collier, Sheffield Branch Hon Secretary, sends this
picture which was taken at the Spring Street Animal

f Shelter. The Boxer and her puppies were at the-home

after living in a cellar

 




 

 

 

December 1954

THE ANIMAL WORLD 141

‘GAUN T, SKELETON-LlKE’

 

ln the words above this picture Senior Inspector Young described the appearance of a large white sow seen by him on a
farm. The sow was stretched out full length and had difficulty in getting on to her feet. She was weak on the hind legs.
lnspector Grant found the sow ‘continually rubbing herself against the door and sides of the stall’. He discovered that she was
infested with lice. For causing the sow suffering by neglect, the owner was brought before the magistrates at Thorne by
the RSPCA and was ﬁned £l0. The defendant had to pay £8 8s. costs. The RSPCA is watching the condition of the sow. (A7374)

 

BRANCH
NEWS

Mrs Clarke
sends this
picture of
‘Rona’

Ashton, Stalybridge, Mossley, Hyde, Glossop and District
The Mayor of Hyde, Councillor B. S. Armitage, accompanied
by the Mayoress, presided over the branch annual meeting
1n the Hyde Town Hall. The Mayors and Mayoresses of
Glossop and Dukinﬁeld were on the platform. RSPCA
certiﬁcates of merit were presented to Mrs A. Jones and
Mr J. Taylor. Mrs Rawson Schoﬁeld, branch co hon sec,
and Mr Edgar Barker, branch hon treasurer, were present.
A collection of over £8 was taken after the meeting. Col.
Coventry, branch organizer, spoke.

The animal service at St John’s Church, Ashton-under-
Lyne, was conducted by the Rev and Mrs Pratt and the
lesson was read by Inspector Blaylock. Mrs F. Rawson-
Schoﬁeld and Mrs W. S. Schoﬁeld, branch co hon secs,
and Miss E. Heathcote, branch president, were present
1at tale service. A collection of £3 16s. 6d. was taken for CllnlC
un s.

 

Balham and Tooting Wandsworth Common aux. Mrs
Granville Stott, aux hon sec, reports a very satisfactory
sale was held at Highﬁeld School by kind permission of
Mr Austin. The sum of £35 was raised for branch funds.
Berkshire—Newbury and District Mrs Hide, Overton aux
hon sec, organized a jumble sale at Overton and raised
about £27 for branch funds.

Birmingham and District The annual RSPCA service was
held at St Germain’s Church, Edgbaston. The Vicar, the
Rev D. A. Foster, conducted the service and the lessons
were read by the branch sec, Mr K. S. Tolhurst.

In his sermon the Vicar expressed regret that Mrs Turley
was unable to be present through-illness, and hoped that
she would be at many more RSPCA services at St Germain’s.
Bury (Lancs.) and District The Hon C. K. Brooks, branch
chairman, presided over the branch annual meeting in the
Co-operative Society Hall, Bury. Col. Coventry, branch
organizer, addressed the meeting. (Report from Mrs A. D. M.
Hopkinson, branch hon sec, who also speaks of a beetle
drive held in the previous month.)

Pauline Dyer,
who won a
challenge cup
for jumping at
the RSPCA
Wiltshire

North Branch
Gymkhana at
Chippenham
[Photo by courtesy

of the Bath and Wilts
Chronicle and Herald]

 

 




,lr’

 

       

 
    

ROYAL SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS
Founded 1824

Headquarters: 105 Jermyn Street, London, S.W.1

P A TR 0 N S
HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN
HER MAJESTY QUEEN ELIZABETH, THE QUEEN MOTHER
HER ROYAL HIGHNESS PRINCESS ALICE COUNTESS OF ATHLONE
HER ROYAL HIGHNESS PRINCESS ARTHUR OF CONNAUGHT

VICE-PRESIDENTS

SIR MALCOLM SARGENT, HON LLD, D MUS, FRCM, FRSA
THE EARL OF SHAFTESBURY, KP, PC

COLONEL R. M. POWELL, DSO
THE COUNCIL (1952-1953)

Chairman: THE RT HON LORD MERTHYR, DL, TD, JP
Vice-Chairman: *MRS WALLIS POWER, JP

 

AGIUS, THE REV DOM. AMBROSE, 083, MA
*ALLIBERT, MRS

 

 

 

 

FREEMAN, PETER, ESQ, MP POWELL, COL R. M., DSO
GASKOIN, C. J. 3., ESQ, MA *RATTRAY. R. F., ESQ, MA, PH.I) I
*ALSOP, ALDERMAN A. J., FRCA, FCIS, JP GREENWOOD, ANTHONY, ESQ, MA, MP RISELEY, MRS, R. C. 1
BERTIE 0F THAME, THE RT HON THE VISCOUNTESS *HARVEY, MRS J. w., MA *RIECK. H. H., ESQ I
BRANSOM, MISS L. G., FRSA *HOCKIN, C. OWEN, ESQ SHAFTESBURY, THE RT HON THE COUNTESS OF 1
BYWATER, H. E., ESQ, MRCVS HOGG, S. R., ESQ, DSO, MC SIBLY. W. A.. ESQ. MA, JP 3
*COOPER, ALDERMAN J. D., JP *HUNTER, MISS SNELL THE REV PREBENDARY L. J. B., MBE, TD, JP 1
DAWES, CAPTAIN H. w., CBE, MRCVS LEE, MRS E. M. SOMERS. THE RT HON LORD 1'
DORCHESTER. LT-COL THE RT HON LORD, OBE, JP LOCKWOOD, LT—COL J. C., JP, TD, MP *TAIT, MRS, BA '
*DOWDELL, MRS M. R. LONGMAN, MRS W. TUFNELL, LIEUT-COMMANDER R. L.. MA, RN
ESTCOURT-OSWALD, MISS AGNES, MB (LOND), DPH MOORE, LT-COL SIR THOMAS, CBE, MP *WAI FORD, MRS DESBOROUGH
(CANTAB), DOMS *PARKER, M\URICE G., ESQ, MISAC *WHITE, HARRY. FSQ., FCA
*EVANS, MRS DAVID, BA POULETT. THE RT HON THE EARL *WINCHESTER, F. J., ESQ, FCIS. Fss
* Denotes Branch Representative

 

OFFICE BEARERS APPOINTED BY THE COUNCIL
Hon Treasurer——LT-COL J. C. LOCKWOOD, JP, TD, MP
Deputy Hon Treasurer—HARRY WHITE, ESQ, FCA
Hon Medical Ofﬁcer—«A. N. CRAWFORD, ESQ, FRCSI

Chief Secretary—ARTHUR W. MOSS, ESQ, MBE, ACIS
Bankers—MESSRS COUTTS AND CO, STRAND, LONDON

Assistant Secretary—D. A. L. CAMM, ESQ, BA

Legal Secretary—J. HALL, ESQ
Telegrams—WHITEHALL 7177

Chief Veterinary Ofﬁcer—MAJOR R. C. G. HANCOCK. BSC. MRCVS
Auditors—MESSRS VINEY, PRICE AND GOODYEAR, CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS

USED &TRIISTED THE WORlD OVER ~

Telephone—Whitehall 7177

   
      

...................

  
   

Barking up
the WRONG THEE!

  

 

SIMPLE
SAIL.
sums NFCASHXQ

O. ‘
CAPTIVE BOLT PISTOL
FOR ALL ANIMALS BON'O

5 . MIXED OVALS - WEETMEET
“an PUPPY BISCUITS - DOG CAKES

BIRMINGHAM - 6 - ENGLAND
5465 Spratt’s Patent Ltd., 4I/47 Bow Road, London. 5-3

I

SPRATT’S not scraps
is what a dog
needs for nourishment!

IchIs AND sunvoxs lTD

 




 

 

 

134 THE ANIMAL WORLD

December 1954

 

 

KING OF THE [UNGLE
Compelled to leap through flames and to sit up and beg,
how sadly the performing lions compare with the lionesses
photographed at home in South Africa by Mr Ross!

 

Because of this readiness on the part of the
public to be soothed despite a real wish to see
kindness shown to animals, the RSPCA recogv
nizes that it has one of its most difﬁcult tasks in
seeking to make illegal the training and exhibia
tion, for entertainment purposes, of wild animals.

The proof that it is not ‘all done by kindness’
is obviously difﬁcult to obtain. Training of pera
forming animals is done in private, on premises
to which RSPCA Inspectors have no access.
This should be borne in mind when exhibitors
announce that ‘the RSPCA was present’. What
they mean is that RSPCA Inspectors . attend
performances, but it is obvious that nothing
violating animal protection laws will be shown
in public. Inspectors have noticed the excessive
use of the whip, and even the imaginative ordinary
watcher of the circus performer must have noticed
that the trainer is usually carrying a whip, a stick,
or both!

 

‘
ﬂ

 

To the RSPCA it seems sufficient to argue
against performing wild animals that the creatures
are compelled to spend their lives in confinement;
life for them is an unnatural round removed
utterly from the freedom for which Nature
intended them.

What pleasure can be obtained from the
spectacle of watching noble animals like
lions and elephants drinking beer out of
bottles or climbing on to metal stands?

If the exhibition of such ‘cleverness’ seems
akin to the ‘cute’ trick of the domestic pet who
begs for his biscuit, the RSPCA says that the
temperamental pet who declines to ‘beg’ is not
deprived of his supper in consequence. The
trained performing animal must go through his

 

BOOKS AND MAGAZIN ES

‘0‘" Cats’, the popular monthly magazine that spans the

world of Cat Lovers. Every issue contains interesting and

heleUl articles by experts, general interest features and

wonderful pictures. A splendid gift for a Cat Lover any-

where. Subscription rate ”5. 6d. for l2 issues (specimen

C°PY '5- 7d- post free) from 4 Carlton Mansions, Clapham
Road, London, SW9

 

 

A. G. _Street, as Editorial Adviser to The Country 300k

ClUb, "Wltes you to join. Beautifully illustrated, recent

books for only 5s. 6d. each. Interested? Write Dept. AW,
38 William N Street, London, WC2

 

 

 




 

136 THE ANIMAL WORLD

December 195

 

clowns, acrobats and all sorts of human perv
formers.

Then, we can present to our friends the
RSPCA’s point of View against wild animal turns
and enlist their support in this ﬁght. Public sup
port will help to bring nearer the day when such
turns will be prohibited.

Though the struggle against the exhibition of
trained wild animals threatens to be long and
arduous, there is no need to be discouraged.
A hundred and thirty years ago, when the Society
was founded, the very idea of the RSPCA seemed

‘.
‘

ridiculous. Yet, it is now accepted as an institution
of which our country is proud”; it is one the whole
world has been glad to copy.

EDITOR

NOTE—With the law as it stands, we must not
say that there is cruelty in any particular circus; if
we take RSPCA leaﬂets as a means of enlightening
the public, we must not distribute them outside any
place where trained performing animals are exhibited,
nor must we use this article in this way.

gummmmmrmmmmmmmmmmmmmzmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmz‘wm“

g El (Inert)? Gbriatmas to all our 1Reaoegs g

mmmmmmwmmmxmmmmrmmmmmmmmxmmmmmnummmmmummmzm

THE FESTIVE TIME FOR ANIMALS

In planning Christmas festivities let us not forget
the comfort of animals.

Pets often appear on lists of presents. Let us
always make certain, when an animal is a present
(whether to a child or an adult) that a suitable
home can be provided and that the animal is
really wanted.

If the person expecting an animal as a present
is really an animal lover, then the animal will be
as comfortable months hence as at Christmas
time. The thrill of receiving a pet is sometimes
liable to wear off and the animal suffers.

Proper care is the ﬁrst need of an animal and
the RSPCA publishes a pamphlet on the right
treatment, feeding and housing for most pets.
(A pamphlet is sent free to anyone sending a
stamped addressed envelope.) Do not overfeed
animals at Christmas time. The aftermath of
Christmas is often a busy time for veterinary
surgeons and animal clinics.

Do not give ﬁsh bones, or sharp chickenbones
that will splinter and will be caught in the throat.

Wild animals are not suitable as pets and should
not be given as presents.

If an animal should be ill or injured at this
season, consult a veterinary surgeon. For poor,
blind and needy folk the RSPCA will help
through its Clinics or Free Voucher Schemes
where an animal needs veterinary attention.

Birds need water as much now as in mid—sum—
mer and remember they enjoy the Christmas
scraps!

From: THE BELLS OF HEAVEN

BY RALPH HODGSON

And he and they together
Knelt down with angry prayers
For tamed and shabby tigers
And dancing dogs and bears

CHRISTMAS VISITOR

(Quoted from Winter, by James Thomson,
1700—1748.)

The redbreast, sacred to the household gods,

Wisely regardful of the embroiling sky,

In joyless ﬁeld and thorny thickets leaves

His shivering mates, and pays to trusted man

His annual visit. Half afraid, he ﬁrst

Against the window beats; then brisk alights

On the warm hearth; then hopping o’er the
ﬂoor,

Eyes all the smiling family askance,

Arid pecks, and starts, and wonders where

e 13;
Till, more familiar grown; the table—crumbs
Attract his slender feet.

 

The swift-flowing tide of
the river Arun helped by a
strong wind had carried
two swans and their four
cygnets out of the river at
Littlehampton and on to
the beach. Regional Super-
intendent Brown coaxed
the swans to get them back
to the river but they could
not understand that he
was being helpful. In the
end the Regional Super-
intendent took the cygnets ,-_
and then he was able to .
get the two adult swans
and transfer the whole ‘
family by motor ambu- "
lance to safety

 

[Photo by courtesy
of the Evening Argus, Brighton]

 

 

 




 

138 THE ANIMAL WORLD

OIL POLLUTION

 

The bedraggled,
oil-clotted bodies of
gulls photographed
at Walney

 

 

 

 

[Photo by courtesy of
Barrow News]

.The latest outbreak of oil pollution has been
reported from Walney Island, Barrow’inaFurness.
Inspector Morris sent to RSPCA Headquarters
a dead sea bird. So badly was the bird polluted
that it had the appearance of having been dipped
in tar. Within a day or two, the Inspector re
ported, more than a hundred infected birds had
been seen. He managed to catch several but they
were all so badly polluted that the kindest thing
he could do was to give them a humane end.

Inspector Morris described the present out—
break of oil pollution as the worst he had ever
seen on that coast.

MARE AND FOAL
SAVED FROM ‘INFERNO’

Miss B. A. Cusdin plunged into what her em—
ployer described as an inferno to rescue an Arab
mare and foal. The animals were in a stable at
Bishops Court Farm, Dorchester, when the ﬁre
broke out. It spread rapidly, and Miss Cusdin,
in complete disregard of her own safety, led
both the animals to safety. She has received the
RSPCA bronze medal and citation certiﬁcate.
Among the other. winners of RSPCA bronze
medals are two members of the Derbyshire
Speleological Group, Mrs S. M. Mather and
Mr E. Wingﬁeld. The help of these experts was
enlisted by the police and the RSPCA when a
:lamb missing for two days was suspected to be
:in a disused. .lead mine at Nether Water Farm,
'Hazelbadge, near Bradwell, Hope, Derby. Using
:a rope ladder, Mr Wingﬁeld descended a 30aft.
shaft and found the lamb .alive and uninjured in
an underground chamber. Mrs Mather descended
to join him, and the lamb was roped and hauled
to safety. »
Another mine’shaft rescue earning for the man
performing it an RSPCA award—a bar to a

bronze medal already held—eis that of a dog from .

a mineshaft at Ystu'mtuen. The dog was found at

December 1954

ﬁ
ﬁ.‘

Inspector Turnell collected sea birds, victims
of oil pollution, from the Whitehaven beaches and
from St Bees. Some of the birds found by
Inspector Turnell were unrecognizable and looked
like ‘oval lumps of tar glistening among the sea—
weed’. In a few days, this Inspector handled
well over a hundred victims.

Dead—even the
larger seabirds fall
foul of the oil
menace. Inspector
Morris with a
polluted dead gannet

[Photo by courtesy of
Barrow News

 

a depth of only 25 ft., though the shaft was
reputed to be 700 ft. deep. Two ropes were pre—
pared, and a police constable was being tied to
descend on one, when suddenly the head of a
78—year—old man was seen disappearing down the
shaft. This old man, Mr D. Mason, holds the
RSPCA bronze medal for a dog rescue performed
in 1936. He had volunteered to perform the pre
sent rescue, but had been advised against it on
account of his age. However, he was not to be
outdone and, shortly after disappearing into the
shaft, he called to the people on top to haul up
the rope..He sent to, the top a black and White
sheepdog, wet, but otherwise none the worse for
being lost in the shaft. ‘ '

BRONZE MEDALS .
Others receiving RSPCA bronze medals for the

gallant rescue of animals are: Inspector Rhodes;
Continued in next column (see opposite)

 

Send 3d. for l6 pp. “NATURE-GIFT” Catalogue 7,.
Best TOILET SOAP with pictures which do NOT WASH 2’1"" "
off. Bird, Fish, Cat and Dog Series: box 3 tablets 4/3.
SCARF RINGS. with coloured miniature of Horse or Dog. .9.
5/6d- Animal LITANY, 2/9d..NEST-BOXES, l0/9d. Peanut FeederS, 9/9d
Dept. 8, GREENRIGG WORKS, WOODFORD GREEN, ESSEX

    

 

 

 

‘0” c




 

 

 

 

140 THE ANIMAL WORLD

December 1954

 

ﬁ.
ﬁ‘

THE RSPCA AT WORK

OCTOBER 1954

RSPCA INSPECTORS

2,306 Complaints of cruelty investigated.
3 Offenders imprisoned.
57 Oﬁenders ﬁned.
56 Persons guilty of minor acts of cruelty cautioned in
writing.
780 Registered cautions were administered by Inspectors.

CLASSIFICATION OF CONVICTIONS

HORSES—Working in an unﬁt state, overdriving 3
CATTLE—Neglecting, conveying in improper manner,
neglecting ingrowing horn 4
SHEEP—Neglecting, hobbling in improper manner,
neglecting ingrowing horn . 3
PIGS—Conveying when in an unﬁt state, etc 2

DOGS—Neglecting, shooting and wounding, killing
in improper manner . 17

CATS—Neglecting, abandoning, injuring with steel—

tooth trap . . . . .. 4 '

EOWLS——Neglecting, conveying in improper manner,

stoning and killing 3
GEESE—Conveying in improper manner 2
PIGEONs—Plucking ﬂight feathers 2
RABBIT—Neglecting . 1
MONKEY—Conveying in improper receptacle 1
OFFENCES UNDER THE PROTECTION OF BIRDS ACT, 1933:

Selling other than a close ringed specimen

bred in captivity 5

Offering for sale other than a close ringed

specimen bred in captivity 4
VARIOUS OFFENCEs:

Steel—tooth trap—set in open ' 1

Permitting in oﬁences 5

Aiding and abetting in an offence 1

Infringements of. the Slaughter of” Animals

Act, 1933 .. 2
TOTAL NUMBER OF CONVICTIONS 60

During OCTOBER, 1954, Magistrates, at the request of the
RSPCA, disqualiﬁed TEN persons from owning a dog or holding
a dog licence Disqualiﬁcations were as follows:

ONE for 2 years; FOUR for 5 years; ONE for 10 years; ONE
for 20 years; THREE for Life

Total number of COMPLAINTS from January lst 23,665
Total number of CONVICTIONS from January lst 7 52,
Total number of CAUTIONS from January lst 8,078

HEADQUARTERS CLINICS

No. of animals handled:
Cats, 4,774 Dogs, 4,527 Misc., 465 Total, 9,766
No. of animals given emergency ﬁrst—aid: 2,211

PUTNEY CONVALESCENT WARD
No. of animals handled:
Cats, 35 Dogs, 77

Misc., 1 Total, 113

NIGHT STAFF
No. of calls received: 1,292

Miles covered by ambulance in respect of urgent calls: 2,007
No. of animals rescued: 6

No. of cases treated by veterinary surgeon: 210

NORTH WALES UNIT

First—aid cases:

Cats, 23 Dogs, 67 Misc, 10 Total, 100
No. of other animals handled by Unit:
Cats, 84 Dogs, 51 Misc , 3 Total, 138

No of miles covered by Unit during month: 2,100

AWARDS

Current awards are at present under consideration.

RECORDS FOR 1953

COMPLAINTS .. 27,686
CONVICTIONS ... ... ... 864
CAUTIONS 10,142

HEADQUARTERS CLINICS
No. of animals handled: 155,236

NIGHT STAFF
No. of calls: 20,440

NORTH WALES UNIT
No. of animals handled: 2,797

AWARDS
Margaret Wheatley Cross” 1
Silver Medals .. 6
Bars to Silver Medals 2
Bronze Medals 58
Bars to Bronze Medals 10

Merit Certiﬁcates 121

 

 

 




 

 

142 THE ANIMAL WORLD

December 1954

 

r
r

Chester The Town Clerk, Mr Gerald Burkinshaw, proposed the
motion ‘that the control of animal pests by disease is entirely
justiﬁed’. The motion, which was proposed at Newton
Debating Society’s new session, was opposed by Mr Allan
Joiirgr, from Headquarters, and was defeated by 35 votes
to .

Cleveland and Tees-Side Mrs Hart, branch hon sec, reports
that Mrs Harrison organized a jumble sale in South Bank
and raised £18 for branch funds.

.Mrs Tomlinson organized a whist drive at her home and
reused £6 5s. for Branch funds.

 

[Photo by courtesy of the Leicester Evening Mail]
in the centre of this picture, which was taken at the Lough-

borough and North Leicestershire Branch Annual Meeting,
is Lady Crawshaw, Branch Chairman ‘

Dorset—South Senior Inspector Homer addressed the
No. 7 Police Training Centre, Cattistock, on the proper
care and attention of animals. The Assistant Superintendent
of the Nigerian Police Force was present.
Durham and District Lord Lawson, Lord Lieutenant of
the County, presented ﬁreman Edwin Jones and Fireman
Albert Stainsby with the RSPCA Bronze Medal and certi-
ﬁcate of merit for their courage in rescuing a dog from a
disused pit shaft at Hett.
Durham—South, and North Yorkshire Col. Coventry,
branch organizer, spoke at the branch annual meeting held
in the Council Chamber, Darlington. The Mayor of Darling-
ton, Mr N. R. Barker, who presided, presented a long service
medal to Chief Inspector Baxter and a bronze medal and
certiﬁcate to Mr T. Mackay.
Enﬁeld and District New clinic premises were opened by
Mr H. H. Rieck, branch chairman and Council Member.
Mrs Tye, branch hon sec, reporting the opening, said that it
was attended by the branch ofﬁcers, aux hon sees and other
helpers, as well as by Senior Inspector Butcher.

A stand at the Enﬁeld Horticultural Show raised £16 for
branch funds.
Exeter, East and West Devon Mrs F. E. Weaver, Okehamp-
ton aux hon sec, organized the annual jumble and produce
sale at the Okehampton Market Hall. With the help of the
Borough Council and local tradespeople £55 was raised for
branch funds.
Finchley, Golders Green, Hendon and District A jumble
sale organized by Mrs Campling, Finchley (North) aux co
hon sec, raised £20 for branch funds.
Glamorgan—Mid and Port Talbot Mrs Marian Evans,
clinic hon sec, reports that the recent jumble sale raised
£8 2s. 5d. for the branch clinic.
Hampshire—Southampton and District Mrs Wallis Power,
Vice-Chairman of the RSPCA Council, congratulated the
branch on an excellent year’s work when she spoke at the
annual meeting in Southampton. Mr E. F. Symonds, branch
chairman, presided over the meeting in the Civic Centre
Conference Room. Inspector Hallam said that during the

year he had investigated 137 complaints of cruelty. A report
was submitted by Mrs Deacon, branch hon sec.

Ofﬁcers elected were: President, the Mayor of Southamp-
ton; chairman, Mr E. F. Symonds; branch hon sec, Mrs R.
Moody; branch hon treasurer, Mr H. J. Whitehead. .
Herefordshire The Daily Mail, reporting the Animal
Sunday Service at Hereford, said: ‘From all over the country
people came to have their pets blessed’.

The service was held on the lawn at Holy Trinity Church,

Hereford and was conducted by the vicar, Preb. L. J. B.
Snell, branch chairman and hon sec, and Council Member.
Following the service, Mrs J. Ainslie presented the Anita
Knight award to 15-year-old choirboy Robert Edwards
who rescued a cat stranded on the roof of a building. Robert
was also handed a book presented by the RSPCA. It was
given to him by the Mayor of Hereford, Mr T. W. Grimmer,
who was accompanied by the Mayoress, Mrs J. Griffiths.
Other Hereford boys received certiﬁcates. (Report received
from Mrs M. Brown, Hereford aux hon sec.)
Hertfordshire—~West Mrs Hipwell, Rickmansworth aux
hon sec, organized a ‘bridge’ afternoon at her home and
raised £50 for branch funds. .
Hull and East Riding Mr G. H. Jacobsen, branch sec,
reports that Mrs G. K. Spruit and helpers organized a coffee
party at the Guildhall. The party was sponsored by the Lady
Mayoress and raised £21 25. 8d. for branch funds.

*

A collection at Hull Fair raised £68 43. 3d. for branch
funds.
Kent—Canterbury and District An exemption and pet dog
show, organized by Mrs Dance, branch hon see, was held
at the Drill Hall, Canterbury. The show was opened by the
Mayoress of Canterbury, Mrs H. P. Dawton, and the judge
was Mr C. H. Douglas Todd.Branch funds gained £34 155. 5d.

 

w. .....

Mrs Draper, hon secretary of Sittingbourne Division, sends

this picture. The tableau, ‘Alice in RSPCA Land’, was

awarded the ﬁrst prize in a carnival. The prize of 305.
went to Division funds

Kent—~Mid, Maidstone and District Mrs Simmonds,
branch hon_ sec, reports that a successful concert was held
at the Hollmgworth Hall, Maidstone, in aid of the “Rights
of a Rabbit. Fund’. The entertainers were Wilfred Green
and Joan thtlejohn and Eve-de-Mello at the piano. Mr
Wilfred Green spoke of the cruelty inﬂicted on rabbits by
myxomatos1s. Members of the branch committee and Senior
Inspector Checksﬁeld were present.

Lincolnshire—Mid, and Lincoln Miss C. May Harrison,
branch hon sec, arranged an Animal Sunday Service at
St Mark’s Church, Lincoln. Canon A. 0. Jones, vicar of
St Mark’s, co—operated with Miss Harrison with the arrange-
ments andconducted the service. Major Chandler and
Inspector Silcock read the lessons and among the congrega'
tron were two dogs belonging to Mrs Bergne-Coupland,
branch chairman.

London South East Mrs Marchant, Eltham aux hon sec,
organized a collection and raised £3 1s. 5d. for branch funds.

 

 




 

 

144

THE ANIMAL WORLD

December 1954

 

 

 

Col R. M. Powell,

Vice-President of the RSPCA, with
Mrs Powell, helpers and the Inspector on the occasion of
the Fleet Flag Day

RSPCA FILM NEWS

The Society’s ﬁlms were sent to the following places for
showing recently: Kingsworthy, Marston Green, High
Wycombe, Wimbledon, Waterloo, Weymouth, Malton,
Bletchingley, Stanmore, Chipping Ongar, Nuneaton,
Woking, Hornchurch, Chadderton, Bermondsey, Exeter,
Slough, Whitehaven, Bransty, Poultonvle—Fylde, Chard,
Topsham, Dover, Cliburn, Skelton, Ambleside, Chisle—
hurst, Dorchester, Reading, Carmarthen, Gorleston-on‘
Sea, Wath—on—Dearne, Itchen Abbas, Seaford, N. Kensing—
ton, New Cross, Sale Moor, Corby, Gateshead, Petworth,
Llanelly, Horam, Ryde, Norham, Stourbridge, Findon,
Croydon, Forest Gate, Stroud, Cleator, Wallasey, Midr
dlesbrough, Edmonton, Chatham, Brentford, Pocklington,
Streathaln, Whittlesey, Welwyn Garden City, Preston,
Barmouth, Gt Yarmouth, Henley'on—Thames.

 

 

oflmelsﬁilokport AdvertiserJ

This picture, taken at Stockport Animal Welfare Centre,

shows (left to right): Mrs Nabb, Branch Secretary, Master

1. Hughes and his grandfather, Mr S. Mead, President,
Stockport Chamber of Trade

FLAG DAYS

(We give, wherever possible, the place at which the Flag Day
was held and the names of the organizer or organizers.)
Atherstone, Mrs Burgess, £24 175.; Pontfadog, Mrs
Baynes and Mrs May, co aux hon sec, £6 25.; Hazel Grove,
Bramhall, and Disley, £109 195. 9d.; Stockport, Mrs S.

 

Nabb, branch sec, £165 115. 7a.; Swallownest, Mrs Samp—
son, £10 175. 4d.; Swinton (Yorks), Mrs Firth and Mrs
Jackson, £9 145. 11d.; Kilnhurst, Miss Russell, aux hon sec,
£3; Harthill, Mrs Wall, aux hon sec, £11 115. 6d.; Thorpe
Salvin, Mrs Dunn, £2 45. 6d.; Wentworth, Mrs P. C.
Collinson, aux hon sec, £2 145. 7a.; Rawmarshe and Park—
gate, Mrs Young, £32 125. 9a.; Harrogate, Mr T. H. Lusher,
branch hon sec, £97 115. 10d.; Bristol, Mr C. Croxton—
Smith, branch hon sec, £421 135. 8d.; Salisbury, Miss
Wormell and Miss RosslynvStuart, branch co hon secs,
£164 185. %d.; Trowbridge, Mrs E. Pitt, aux hon sec,
£57 15. 6d.; Middleton, (Lancs.), Mrs A. Hartley, aux
hon sec, £54 185. 8d.; Henley—on—Thames, £70 105., and
Reading, £220, Miss Wadland, branch sec; Haverfordwest,
£57 65.; Burnham—on—Sea and Highbridge, Mr R. S. Dillon
and Mrs Mason, aux hon secs, £47 75.; Llangollen, Mrs
Gilbert, Division hon treasurer, £20 135. 9d.; Filey, Mrs
M. M. Carmichael, aux hon sec, £35 155. 8d.; Herne Bay,
Miss M. Michell, aux hon sec, £100 65. 2d.; Worsborough,
MrsWilliams, aux hon sec, £15; Thornaby, Mr and Mrs F.
Postle, £42 105.; Romsey, Mrs Guy Moore, branch hon
sec, £30 35. 2d.; Glynceiriog, Miss G. Pickering, aux hon
sec, £12 45. 10d.; Vroncysyllte, Miss S. Morris, aux hon
sec, £1 13s. 3d.; Saltash, Miss P. Creba, aux hon sec,
£34 155. 6d.; Southend—on—Sea, Miss D. M. H. Sindall,
aux hon sec, £309; Chapelren—le-Frith, Mrs N. Parsons,
aux chairman, £30 05. 2d.; Welwyn Garden City, Mr P. H.
Marriott, co aux hon sec, £98 105. 5d.; Brighton, Mr W. C.
Brown, branch sec, £181 115. 10d. (joint collection);
Streat, Sussex, Mrs Perkins, £5 25. 6d.; Westmeston, Mrs
Ripley, £2 35. 8d.; Ditchling, Mrs Watson, £3 185. 4d.;
Rodmell, Mrs Bennett, 14s. 11d.; Yarm, Mr and Mrs F.
Postle, £10 25. 3d.; Leyburn, Miss M. E. Sharples, branch
hon sec, £28 165.; Bedale, Mrs Hone, aux hon sec,
£41 105. 2d.; Thirsk, Mrs Morris, aux hon sec, £20 145.;
Crediton, Mrs B. J. Luxton, aux hon sec, £35 35.; Deal and
Walmer, Mrs Grierson, aux hon sec, £89 185. 5d.; Farn‘
borough South, Mrs Baker, aux hon sec, £82 45 11d.;
Farnborough North, Mrs Jenkins, aux hon sec, £60 195. 2d.;
Cove, Mrs Hill, aux hon sec, £24 85. 9d..

BERKSHIRE COUNTY FLAG DAY—
READING BRANCH COLLECTIONS

£ 5. d.
Maidenhead 103 15 0
Wokingham 57 10 8
Didcot 31 1 5
Earley 25 11 0
Wallingford 20 0 3
Pangbourne 15 1 0
Woodley 13 16 0
Bracknell 13 10 0
Wargrave 8 0 0
Sonning 7 15 6
Purley 6 11 7
Arborﬁeld . . . ... 6 0 0

Twyford and Charville 5 15 4%-
Mortimer 4 11 3
Beenham 3 0 0
Spencers Wood 2 10 0

Binﬁeld 1 13 6%
Total £326 2 7

STORE COLLECTIONS IN THE LONDON
AREA

Recent collections in Stores situated in the London area
have been reported as follows:

Streatham, Brixton, and Clapham Branch. A one day colleC’
tion arranged by Mrs John, assisted by Mrs Butler, at
Messrs Pratts of Streatham, realized the sum of £11 95. 6%d.

West: London Branch. A one day collection at Messrs
Simpsons of Piccadilly raised £20 175. 6d. The collectors
were Mrs Goodall and Mrs Vaccaro.

 

 

 




 

 

 

teammates

Manufacturers of

UNIFORM CLOTHING

HOBSON & SONS CAPS HELMETS LEATHER
(LONDON) LTD

 

BELTS POUCHES etc. etc

Gold and Silver Laces
Embroideries of every
All enquiries to descrIptIon for ALL

154-164 TOOLEY STREET UNIFORMED SERVICES

LONDON BRIDGE S.E.1 PATTERNS OF CLOTH
- and ESTIMATES

Telephone: HOP 2476 (4 lines) will be forwarded free of charge
T elegrams: HOBSON, BOROH, LONDON

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

R. S.P.C.A.

 

 

 

FORM OF BEQUEST FOR NATIONAL WORK

To those benevolent individuals who may wish to become benefactors by Will to this
Society, the following form is respectfully suggested:—

‘I bequeath to the ROYAL SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS, founded
1824, for the general purposes of that Society, the sum of £ .......................................... , free
of death duty and the receipt of the Treasurer for the time being of the said Society shall
be suﬂicient discharge for such legacy.’ (If it should be desired that the legacy should be ex’

pended on some particular phase of the Society’s work, a direction to this effect may be added to the

form of bequest.)

 

NOTE
By the Act of William IV and I Victoria, cap. 26, all Wills or Codicils must be in Writing signed by the

Testator, and attested by two witnesses in the presence of the Testator and of each other.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Printed by Shenval Press, Simson Shand Ltd, London, Hertford and Harlow, and
published by Arthur W. Moss for the RSPCA at 105 Jermyn Street, London, SW1

. ,A

 




