 

 

 

June1954 - THE ANIMAL WORLD 67

 

A PAGE OF DOGS
GAY AND SAD

 

 

 

The picture (right) was taken during the Bristol and District
Branch ‘Adopt a Dog Week’ at the Odeon Cinema. Mr C.
Croxton-Smith, Branch Hon Secretary, says that at least
22 dogs were adopted from the Bristol Home, and possibly
one or two more from the Bath Home. A collection for
Branch funds raised £25 5s. l0d.

(Photograph—The Western Daily Press and Bristol Mirror)

Below, ‘Bess’ enjoys herself at the RSPCA Doncaster Dogs’
Home party. Photo courtesy of Daily Mirror

 

 

BEFORE AND AFTER

 

 

 

' e hound u in a sick and emaciated condition. A veterinary surgeon was called
:h‘dRhsePiigdl-‘tsgcleﬁlt’lrefgggg E2331“ the hear: 5% be seen with the naked ‘eye against the chest wall . The owner was»
prosecuted by the RSPCA and was ﬁned £5, with £2 2s. costs; he was also disqualified for ﬁve.years from owning a dog
or holding a licence. The puppy came into the care of the RSPCA, and the great improvement in condition WI" be noted;
the dog’s health Was restored as a result of the treatment and affection he received at an RSPCA Clinic. He has now been
placed in a good home by the'RSPCA. (A7383; Chief Inspector Liddicoat; case heard at Feltham.)

 




 

 

 

AT HOME

_.._.K‘.' L

3‘14 V ,_,_ ,-,

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

‘Ghostie lll’, erstwhile stray, adopted by Mr and Mrs Cant,
of St Albans. (Picture from Miss D. Vane, Welwyn Garden
City.)

 

HOUSE—TO-HOUSE COLLECTIONS

(We give, wherever possible, the place at which the houserto’
house collection was made, and the name of the organizer or
organizers. )

Sussex \West, Mrs Court, Barnham aux hon sec, £1 11s.;

Suffolk West, Miss Dawson, Groton and Boxford aux hon -

sec, £10 45.; Manchester and Salford, Mrs Egersdorff,
£23 165. 2d,; Bolton, Mrs M. Waddicor, £28 175. 10d.

FLAG DAY RESULTS

(We give, wherever possible, the place at which the Flag Day
was held and the names of the organizer or organizers.)
Carlton, Gedling and Hucknall, £23 45.; Shipley and
Baildon, Mrs Connell, £61 135.; Bury, Mrs Hopkinson,
Bury branch hon sec, £145 33. 11d.; Welford—on—Avon
Mrs H. G. Setten, Welford—onrAvon aux hon sec,,
£9 125. 9d.; Okehampton, Mrs F. E. Weaver, Okehampton
aux hon sec, £86; Sawbridgeworth, lvlrs B. AgarW-ala,
Sawbridgeworth aux hon sec, £21 125. 9d.; Coventry, Mrs
Mocatta, branch hon sec, £249 115. 1d.; Rugby, Miss M.

Jones, branch administrative hon sec, over £134.

 

 

FLAG DAY EQUIPMENT

Provincial Organizers are asked to be good
enough to return flag day materials as soon as
possible after the date of the collection, to
the British Legion Poppy Factory, Petersham
Road, Richmond, Surrey, at the same time
informing Headquarters of the approximate
number of emblems used—an approximate
ﬁgure is all that is required. The prompt re,
turn of equipment greatly facilitates the re
labelling of tins, etc., for future collections
' in other parts of the country.

Organizers are reminded that orders for
ﬂag day equipment should be submitted to
Headquarters at least FOUR weeks before the
date of the collection.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

NO FLAG DAY?

Never mind—Try this!

Branches unable, for any reason,
to organize 3 Flag Day are reminded
that a

HOUSE TO HOUSE COLLECTION

is an excellent alternative

Write for details to:
Chief Secretary, RSPCA, 105 Jermyn Street, London, SW]

 

 

 

FLAG DAY
GOODS

Celluloid Buttons

LIST ON APPLICATION

1 THE UNIVERSAL BUTTON co. LTD.
1-9 Birkheck Street, Bethnal Green, LONDON, E.2

 

Telegram q: ‘Unibutco Edo’

Telephone: BIShopsgate 5750

 

 

 

 

TEMPLE COX CAPTIVE

BOLT SLAUGHTERING
GUNS

Specially recommended and used by the RSPCA

THREE MODELS—ALL SILENT IN
ACTION

‘UNIVERSAL' for all animals
‘SMALLS’ for all small animals
‘MARK 6’ for all animals. Designed for heavy

use in large Abattoirs and Freezing Works

TEMPLE COX DEVELOPMENT CO. LTD
HIGH STREET, BROMLEY, KENT

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

June 1954

QUESTIONS
IN
PARLIAMENT

‘Charlie’ at the age of 4.
Picture from Miss Eliza-
beth Wilkins, Bristol

 

Circus Animals

CAPTAIN PILKINGTON asked the Secretary of State
for the Home Department whether he has con;
sidered certain information sent to him by the
hon Member for Poole in regard to cruelty in
training circus animals; and whether he is
satisﬁed that sufﬁcient safeguards exist.

SIR D. MAXWELL FYFE: Yes. The Performing
Animals (Regulation) Act, 1925, confers powers
of entry and inspection of premises where animals
are trained and exhibited or kept for training and
exhibition. I have no reason to think that the
existing statutory provisions are inadequate.

Mines and Quarries (Fencing)

MR KENYON asked the Minister of Housing and
Local Government if he will introduce legislation
to compel those responsible for disused quarries,
pits or places where water collects and becomes a
danger to remove the danger by ﬁlling the places
concerned.

MR H. MACMILLAN: This would be impractic—
able. I think it is better to see that disused quarries
and pits which are a danger to the public are
securely fenced. Proposals for revising the law in
regard to the fencing of mines and quarries are
now before Parliament.

Colonial Territories (Killing of Animals)—
Written Answer

MR PETER FREEMAN asked the Secretary of State
for the Colonies whether he will publish a table
showing a list of all Colonial Territories, indicata
ing those where the humane killing of animals
is compulsory and showing whether for horses,
cattle, sheep and pigs separately and, where not
enforced, what steps are being taken to bring
about such conditions.

 

ANIMAL WAYS—

an ideal magazine for children

ld- per month. Postal subscription 23. 6d. per year
Published by the RSPCA

THE ANIMAL WORLD. 69

MR HOPKINSON pursuant to his reply (Ofﬁcial .
Report, January 27, 1954; Vol. 522, c. 254) mp
plied the following information: .
TABLE I
Territories in which humane killing is compulsory
Bahamas (New Providence and

in licensed slaughter—houses Horses, cattle,

in Out Islands) sheep, pigs
Bermuda Horses, cattle,
sheep, pigs
British Honduras . . . Horses, cattle,
sheep, pigs
Fiji Cattle, sheep,
pigs
Gold Coast (except rural areas) Cattle, sheep,
pigs
Hong Kong Cattle, sheep,
pigs
Malta Horses, cattle,
sheep, pigs
Sierra Leone (Freetown) Cattle, sheep,
pigs
Singapore Pigs

Notes to Table I

1. There is no slaughtering of animals in Gibraltar.

2. In Hong Kong and Singapore horses are killed
by shooting,

3. In Fiji horses are not licensed for human
consumption.

TABLE 11

Territories where humane killing has not been made

compulsory for religious reasons:

Aden, British Guiana, Cyprus, Gambia, Federav

tion of Malaya, Mauritius, Nigeria, North

Borneo, Sarawak, Sierra Leone (Protectorate),

Singapore (cattle and sheep), Somaliland,

Tanganyika, Trinidad, Uganda and Zanzibar.

Notes to Table II

1. Attempts are made in such territories to per-
suade members of the Moslem communities
that the use of humane killers is not inconv
sistent with their religion.

2. In most of these territories equipment for
killing is used in abattoirs and steps are being
taken to extend its use.

TABLE 111

Other Territories in which humane killing is not

compulsory: A

Barbados, Falkland Islands (except for seals),

Jamaica, Kenya, Leeward Islands, Northern Rhov

desia, Nyasaland, St Helena, Seychelles, Western

Paciﬁc, Windward Islands.

Notes to Table III

1. In most of the above territories, equipment for
humane killing is used in abattoirs and
measures are being taken to extend its use.

2. The introduction of legislation is being con—
sidered in the Falkland Islands, Gold Coast,
Kenya, Nyasaland and St Helena.

 




A

 

 

 

 

 

ANIMALTH

EWORLD

THE OFFICIAL MAGAZINE OF THE RSPCA

Vol XLIX No 6 New Series

HORSES IMPORTED FOR SLAUGHTER

It was only a few weeks ago that the RSPCA In—
spector on duty at Eishguard Harbour saw among
a consignment of horses imported from Ireland to
be sent to a destination in England for slaughter,
a black horse dragging the near front foot. The
Port Veterinary Ofﬁcer whom he called immediv
ately issued an order for the animal to be de’
tained.

This and other recent incidents of a more
serious nature show the need for the early intro—
duction of an order for regulating the entry of
this type of horse into the country.

Order ‘shortly’

In welcoming the recent announcement that
the Minister of Agriculture hopes to introduce
such an order ‘shortly’, the RSPCA recalls that
more than one horse in recent months has been
unﬁt to travel beyond the port of entry and has
had to be humanely destroyed. One dark bay was
unﬁt to be removed from the boat, and the Port
Veterinary Ofﬁcer, called by the RSPCA Inspec’
tor, promptly gave the order for humane destruc—
tion on the boat. ‘ .

It is gratifying to the RSPCA that the informa—
tion it has been able to supply to Members of
Parliament has enabled them to persuade the
Minister of Agriculture that reform is essential.
The RSPCA’S view has always been that horses in

JUNE I954

PRICE THREEPENCE
4s. 6d. per annum. Post Paid

this trade should be humanely slaughtered before
entry. The trafﬁc should be in dead meat, not in
tired, worn—out horses, who are alive and prone
to suffering.

 

A HAPPY OLD AGE FOR TWO

Oliver and Duchess—inseparable companions in retirement
at the RSPCA Home of Rest for Horses, -Ningwood,
Isle of Wight

 

A HOME THAT HEALS THE BROKEN HEARTS OF . . .

The pets they left behind . . .

by ERIC WAINWRIGHT

(Reprinted from the Daily Mirror, with acknowledgments)

A little dog presses a forlorn nose against the
bars of a kennel. Three days ago, his master was
sent to prison. The .dog was homeless.

Behind a wire cage, an elderly tabby—cat miaows.
Her mistress, an old—age pensioner, was taken to
hospital in the week. The room they shared is
locked and empty.

A shaggy mongrel straddles a bone and sniffs
the air. But there is a sorrowful droopto his tail.
For his beloved owner is dead.

These three animals are new arrivals at a plain

brick building in a North London side street——
the RSPCA’s Mayhew Home.

They arrive bewildered and miserable. But
within a fortnight they will have settled patiently
to the sad routine of being The Pets They Left
Behind. ' '

For the Home, with three ambulances and a
staff of eight, exists to care for pets wholose their
homes through their owners’ misfortune. ,

Harry Hunt, forty—three—year’old manager of
the Home, told me: ‘ ' ~ j

 




 

 

 

 

]une 1954

THE ANIMAL WORLD 71

 

__——

Bafcfl‘dick for rescuing a sheep at the risk of his life from the
cli s.

Dorset North Lady Shaftesbury, branch president, attended
the annual meeting at Blandford. The new branch president,
Lord Digby, was unable to attend. Captain Yeatman, who
was elected chairman, presided. In his annual report Mr
Hugh Ricketts, branch hon secretary, said that the loyal
support of the auxiliary secretaries and their helpers was
encouraging.

Inspector Hancock spoke of his work in the prevention of
suffering to animals. A talk was given by Wing-Comdr
Hillier, regional organizer.

Durham and District The Marquess of Londonderry was
re-elected president at the branch annual meeting. He was
unable to attend, as he was suffering as a result of injuries.
In his absence the Mayor of Durham, Coun J. R. Kingston,
presided. A message from Ald Mrs H. H. Rushford, said
that she was unable to continue as chairman, as she was
giving more time to Council work. Miss G. S. Wilkinson
was re-elected hon secretary and Mr A. B. Peacock hon
treasurer. A report was submitted by Inspector G. W.
Spencer.

' Essex—Mid, Brentwood, Chelmsford, Romford and District
Mrs Campbell, Harold Wood aux hon sec, gave a talk on
the twork of the RSPCA to members of the Young Mothers’
Clu .

Essex—South-West Mrs Hoddell, branch hon sec, reports
that the co hon secretaries of the Wanstead auxiliary, Miss
New and Miss C. R. Emery, organized a pantomime,
‘Aladdin’, at Wanstead and raised £35 for branch funds.
Finchley, Golders Green, Hendon and District Mrs Camp-
ling, Finchley North auxiliary co hon sec, organized a jumble
sale and raised £40 for clinic funds.

A whist drive was organized by Mrs Dawson, Church
End auxiliary hon sec, and the sum of £15 was given to
branch funds. ’

Fylde Mrs E. Clark, Fleetwood aux hon sec, organized a
coffee morning and ﬂower stall at Fleetwood, and raised
£6 65. for branch funds.

Glamorgan Mid and Port Talbot Mrs Raikes, Aberkenﬁg
aux hon sec, reports a successful children’s fancy dress dance
held at the Welfare Hall. Among the guests were Miss Rees,
branch hon sec, and Mr R. E. Baker, Assistant Chief
Constable of Glamorgan.

Hampshire—Winchester The Dean of Winchester, Dr E. G.
Selwyn, branch president, presided at the branch annual
meeting at the Cadena Cafe, Winchester. Lt-Col Sir Thomas
Moore, RSPCA Council Member, gave an address and was
thanked by Mrs Wallis Power, Vice-Chairman of the
RSPCA Council. A presentation was made to Chief Inspec-
tor Evans who was thanked for his work in the City by the
Dean and by Mrs Lombard Hobson, branch hon sec.

An RSPCA certiﬁcate for bravery was presented to Sub-
Oﬂicer A. J. Gore, of Winchester Fire Service. The ﬁnanc1a1
statement, presented by Capt Sir John Alleyne, Bart., branch
hon treasurer, showed a balance of £270 165. 10d. Among
ofﬁcers re-elected were: The Dean of Winchester, pres1dent;

‘3

Photo by courtesy of the Stockpcrt Advertiser
ANIMAL DEFENDERS SHOW THEIR TALENTS
Mr H. Ashton, with Mrs A. McFarlane, Heaton Chapel
Auxiliary Hon Secretary, Graham McFarlane and com-
petitors in an Animal Defenders’ talent competition

  

 

‘BUFF’—
picture from Mrs Micklethwait, of Egham

Mrs Lombard Hobson, branch hon secretary, and Capt Sir
John Alleyne, Bart., branch hon treasurer.
Hertfordshire—East Mrs Clayton, branch hon sec, reports
that at the branch annual meeting, Major Chapman,
branch organizer,’gave an address. Mr Huddart, branch
hon treasurer, presented his report for the year.
Kent—Canterbury and District Mrs Dance, branch hon
sec, reports that the branch committee, with the help of
Inspector and Mrs Rhodes, organized a jumble sale and
raised £25 for clinic funds.

A whist drive was also held and £4 83. 2d. was raised for
branch funds.

- *

At the branch annual meeting held at the County Hotel,
Canterbury, before reading the report of the hon secretary,
Mrs Dance, the branch chairman, Mr E. J. Mount, welcomed
guests from other Kent branches. The branch president, Mr
G. T. Hall, announced the promotion of the Senior Inspec-
tor. Mr A. H. Matheson, branch hon treasurer, reported
that the branch contribution to Headquarters had been in-
creased by £100. Inspector Rhodes reported having issued
70 verbal cautions. A talk on the work of the Society,
particularly its Parliamentary activities, was given by Mr R.
Ampleford, Parliamentary organizer, who was thanked on
the proposition of the Mayor of Canterbury, Alderman
H. P. Dawton.

*

Miss Michell, Herne Bay aux hon sec, reports that the
auxiliary has made a contribution of £128 to branch funds
for 1953.

Kent—Isle of Thanet Mrs Crook, Broadstairs and St
Peter’s auxiliary hon sec, reports that the annual dance
raised £28 13s. 1d.

Kidderminster and District Miss Masters, Wellingborough
aux hon sec, with helpers, organized a whist drive and raised
£5 19s. 3d. for branch funds.

Lancashire—St Helens and District At the branch annual
meeting, His Worship the Mayor presided, and the guest
speaker was Lt—Col Coventry, branch organizer. A vote of
thanks was moved by the branch chairman, Major J.
Middleshurst. Oﬂficials and committee members were re-
elected. The meeting ﬁnished with a ﬁlm show.

Leeds At the branch annual meeting held in the Civic Hall,
Leeds, a report was presented by Mrs Harvey, branch
hon sec and Council Member. The Lord Mayor presented
RSPCA awards to Mr D. Poole and Mr H. Buttery. Lt-Col
Coventry, branch organizer, gave an address.

Macclesﬁeld, South-East Cheshire and Buxton At the
branch annual general meeting, the chair was taken by the
branch chairman, Rev H. L. Williams. The chairman, hon
secretaries and hon treasurer were re—elected and the com-

 




 

 

"“ " <L-t-‘t’i‘7ﬁ‘mr‘ﬂ‘m‘t’ “Pu-v: ~u¢~ ,

 

 

June1954 THE ANIMAL WORLD ' 63

 

 

THE RSPCA AT WORK

APRIL 1954

RSPCA INSPECTORS

2 ,454 Complaints of cruelty investigated
2 Oﬂenders imprisoned.
74 Oﬁenders ﬁned.
33 Persons guilty of minor acts of cruelty cautioned in writing.
875 Registered cautions were administered by Inspectors.

CLASSIFICATION OF CONVICTIONS
HORSES—Neglecting, working in an unﬁt state... . . . 3
CATTLE—Neglecting, prodding with fork, breaking tail,

beating, punching in stomach

SHEEP—Neglecting 1
PIGS—Neglecting, conveying and exposing in an unﬁt
I state 10
COATS—r—Starving . . . . . . . 1
DOGS—~Neglecting, shooting and wounding, killing in an
improper manner .. . . . . .. 23
CATS—Neglecting, injuring in steel tooth trap, causing
to be worried bydogs 6
PIGEONs—Plucking flight feathers . . . . . . . . . 2

OFFENCES UNDER THE PROTECTION OF BIRDS ACT, 1925:
Conﬁning birds in small cages 4

OFFENCES UNDER THE PROTECTION OF BIRDS ACT, 1933:
Offering for ’sale other than a close—ringed speci—
men bred in captivity 2
Selling other than a close ringed specimen bred
incaptivity 4

OFFENCES UNDER THE WILD BIRDS PROTECTION ACTS:
Being in possession of recently taken birds . . . 3

VARIOUS OFFENCES:
Steel-tooth traps—set in open 5
Permitting in ofences 2
Causing in an’ojfence 1

TOTAL NUMBER OF CONVICTIONS 76

During APRIL 1954, Magistrates, at the request of the RSPCA,

disqualiﬁed FIFTEEN persons from owning a dog or holding a
dog licence.' Disqualiﬁcations were as follows:

TWO for 12 months; TWO for two years; ONE for three years;
THREE for ﬁve years; Two for ten years; FIVE for life.

Total number of COMPLAINTS from January lst 9,673
Total number of CONVICTIONS from January lst 278
Total number of CAUTIONS from January lst 3,350

HEADQUARTERS CLINICS

No. of animals handled:
Cats, 4,466 Dogs, 3,911 Miscellaneous, 457 Total, 8,834
No. of animals given emergency ﬁrst—aid: 1,933

PUTNEY CONVALESCENT WARD

No. of animals handled:
Cats, 9 Dogs, 56 Miscellaneous, 0 Total, 65

NIGHT STAFF

No. of calls received; 1,545

Miles covered by ambulance in respect of urgent calls: 1,849
No. of animals rescued: 1

N o. of cases treated by veterinary surgeon: 203

NORTH WALES UNIT

First—aid cases:

Cats, 30 Dogs, 46 Miscellaneous, 2 Total, 78
No. of other animals handled by Unit:

Cats, 82 Dogs, 53 Miscellaneous, 4 Total, 139
No. of miles covered by Unit during month: 2,450

AWARDS

Current awards are under review.

RECORDS FOR 1953

COMPLAINTS . ., . . . 27,686
CONVICTIONS . . . 864
CAUTIONS . .. ... 10,142

HEADQUARTERS CLINICS
No. of animals handled: 155,236

NIGHT STAFF
No. of calls: 20,440

NORTH WALES UNIT
No. of animals handled: 2,797

AWARDS
Margaret Wheatley Cross 1
Silver Medals . 6
Bars to Silver Medals 2
Bronze Medals 58
K. Bars to Bronze Medals 10
Merit Certiﬁcates . . . 121

 




 

 

 

 

THE ANIMAL WORLD 65-

 

]une 19.54
-/ 4/53

TheWIngedMassenger

INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCE ON
POLLUTION OF THE SEA BY OIL

  

 

Sir Gilmour Jenkins (on the right of the picture),
Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Transport and
Civil Aviation, Leader of the United Kingdom
delegation, discusses with Mr P Faulkner (Under
Secretary, Ministry of Transport and Civil Aviav
tion), a delegate, a badly oil’polluted guillemot,
which, found by an RSPCA Inspector, had
been preserved and mounted by the RSPCA.
The guillemot is one of the exhibits and photo,
graphs provided by the RSPCA for the Confer;
2',ence held in London, and attended by delegates
"from thirty countries.

Lead by Britain

The conference was opened by Mr Lennox—
Boyd, Minister of Transport, who was warmly
applauded. As representing nations owning 95 per
cent of the world’s shipping the conference was
in a position ‘to do something practical to end
an intolerable nuisance, he said. The discharge
of unwanted oil into the sea inconvenienced
hundreds of thousands of people, killed large
numbers of sea birds and was a real menace to
the ﬁshing industry. The situation was getting
worse and worse.

In Britain certain recommendations had already

een put into effect by shipowners without waitv

ing for an Act of Parliament. Harbour authorities
also said they were anxious to cooperate and
ﬁve British oil companies were ready to provide
reception facilities for oily waste at all terminals
under their control.

‘I think we have given quite a useful lead, but
individual action by any nation—-—and we gladly
recognize the help other countries are giving—
will not solve the problems, because tides, winds
and currents do not recognize boundaries’, Mr
LennoxaBoyd added. ‘We are here to encourage
and help each other.’

 

RESERVES

From the sixty—third Annual Report of the
Royal Society for the Protection of Birds we
learn that one of the most important tasks of the
year 1953 was the rehabilitation of Havergate
Island following the huge tidal surge which broke
down or seriously weakened a considerable
portion of the protective river»walls.

After the emergency work of sandbagging the
breaches with over 6,000 bags had been comv
pleted, the RSPB was faced with serious difﬁculty
in trying to get rid of the water within the walls
and ﬁnally had to resort to a costly pumping
operation. But had this not been done, the
avocets, Sandwich terns and other birds could
not have bred there in 1953 at all.

Avocet Territory

Now that the work is concluded the island is
very different. It has been possible to restore the
original outer perimeter walls, thus recovering
about twenty acres of land on the main part of the
island. Small drainage sluices have been provided,
and, after a few years, these new areas should
provide a thick and rich vegetation at present
lacking on the Reserve. The area where the avocets
ﬁrst nested in 1947, which has been tidal and
derelict since 1950 owing to the collapse of an
ancient sluice, has also been fully restored, mak
ing an additional area of twentyvﬁve acres of the
type of ground very suitable for avocets and
other waders.

Minsmere

At Minsmere there were, as expected, some ad’
verse results from the extensive ﬂooding by salt
water. A large area of the Reserve was constantly
disturbed by the operations necessary for the
restoration of the searwalls. In order to give the
birds every possible chance to recover their
numbers, the Council of the RSPB has decided
to restrict access to this Reserve in 1954, and
feels conﬁdent that it will have the support of
the Fellows and Members in taking this acrion.

 




  

Founded 1824

HER GRACE WINIFRED DUCHESS OF PORTLAND
THE EARL OF SHAFTESBURY, KP, PC

ROYAL SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS
Headquarters: 105 Jermyn Street, London, S.W.1

PATRONS

HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN
HER MAJESTY QUEEN ELIZABETH, THE QUEEN MOTHER

HER'ROYAL HIGHNESS PRINCESS ALICE COUNTESS OF ATHLONE
HER ROYAL HIGHNESS PRINCESS ARTHUR OF CONNAUGHT

VICE-PRESIDENTS

COLONEL R. M. POWELL, DSO

THE COUNCIL (1952-1953)

Chairman: THE RT HON LORD MERTHYR, DL, JP
Vice-Chairman: *MRS WALLIS POWER, JP

 

SIR MALCOLM SARGENT, HON LLD, D MUS, FRCM, FRSA

 

 

AGIUS, THE REv DOM. AMBROSE, 053, MA
‘ALLIBERT, MRS
‘ALSOP, ALDERMAN A. J., FCRA, FCIS, JP
BERTIE OF THAME, THE RT HON THE VISCOUNTESS
BRANSOM, MISS L. G., PRSA
BYWATER, H. E., ESQ, MRCVS
‘COOPER, ALDERMAN J. D., JP
DAWES, CAPTAIN H. w., CBE, MRcvs
DORCHESTER, LT-COL THE RT HON LORD, OBE, JP
‘DoWDELL, MRS
ESTCOURT-OSWALD, MISS AGNES, MB (LOND), DPH
(CANTAB), DOMS
'EVANS, MRS DAVID, BA
FREEMAN, PETER, ESQ, MP

 
  
   

 

GASKOIN, C. J. 3., ESQ., MA
GREENWOOD, ANTHONY, ESQ, MA, MP
*HARVEY, MRS J. w., MA
*HOCKIN, C. OWEN, ESQ
HOGG, s. R., ESQ, Dso, MC
"HUNTER, MISS
LEE, MRS
LOCKWOOD, LT-COL J. C., JP, TD, MP
LONGMAN, MRS W.
MOORE, LT-COL SIR THOMAS, CBE, MP
‘PARKER, MAURICE G., ESQ, MISAC
POULETT, THE RT HON THE EARL

I POWELL, COL R. M., DSO
; RA rTRAv, DR R. P.
I *RIECK. H. H., ESQ
SHAPTESBURY, THE RT HON THE COUNTESS OF
I SIBLY, w. A., ESQ, MA, JP
SNELL, THE REV PREBENDARY L. J. 8., MBE, JP
l SOMERS, THE RT HON LORD
TAIT, MRS, BA
’ TERRINGTON, THE RT HON LORD, KBE, MA
THOMAS, w. S. RUSSELL, ESQ
1 TUFNELL, LIEUT-COMMANDER R. L., MA, RN
*WALPORD, MRS DESBOROUGH
*WHITE, HARRY, ESQ, FCA
I *WINCHESTER, F. J., ESQ, FCIS, FSS

  
 

* Denotes Branch Representative

OFFICE BEARERS APPOINTED BY THE COUNCIL

 

Hon Treasurer—LT-COL J. C. LOCKWOOD, JP, TD, MP
Deputy Hon Treasurer—HARRY WHITE, ESQ, FCA
Hon Medical Ofﬁcer—A. F. WHYTE, ESQ. MB, CHB
Bankers—MESSRS COUTTS AND co, STRAND, LONDON

     

Telegrams—WHITEHALL 71 77

..............................................

L SURE LENS-EX!”

CAPTIVE BOLT PISTOL
FOR ALL ANIMALS

BIRMINGHAM ' 6 ' ENGLAND
5465

ACCIIS All!) SHEIVDKI lID

 

Auditors—MESSRS VINEY, PRICE AND GOODYEAR, CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS

Chief Secretary—ARTHUR w. MOSS, ESQ, MBE, ACIS

Assistant Secretary—D. A. L. CAMM, ESQ, BA

Legal Secretary—J. HALL, ESQ

Chief Veterinary Ofﬁcer—MAJOR R. c. G. HANCOCK, BSC, MRCVS

Telephone—Whitehall 7177

 

 

 

 

Humane Rabbit Trapping:

A WONDERFUL OPPORTUNITY

The RSPCA have a limited number of Long Nets in
multiples of l00 yards, complete with lines and stakes,
which they will loan to farmers, etc., who are not in
a position to buy nets of their own, for use during the
late summer and autumn. Write now if you wish to
borrow one, stating length required and desired date
of loan. This is a splendid chance for those farming ,
small properties to take the main crop of rabbits in a ”-
humane manner without heavy expense. Write to: l
Chief Secretary, RSPCA, l05 Jermyn St., London, SW l, "

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

FLAG DAY EQUIPMENT I

Organizers are asked to order supplies at
least FOUR weeks before the date of the
collection. This enables supplies to be care-
fully checked on arrival and gives ample time
to indent for additional equipment should
more collectors be available than originally
anticipated and/or if it is found insufficient
materials have arrived. Further, it enables l
organizers to distribute tins, etc., to collectors
a few days before the date of the Flag Day—-
always a useful procedure.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

62' THE ANIMAL WORLD

 

June 1954

 

‘We board the pets free until the owneris able
to have them back. If that is impossible we find
new homes.

‘But it’s not fair to kennel an animal too long,’
he added. ‘A few months is average. Two years
is the record stay.’

Didn’t respond

The dog who stayed two years belonged to an
owner serving in prison.

‘I‘spent a lot of time trying to talk him into
friendliness, but he didn’t respond’ said Mr. Hunt.

ﬂ

‘I learnt the reason when the owner turned up.
It seemed the only language that dog understood was
Welsh—he had a strong dislike of English.’

What pets fret the most? CATS says Mr.
Hunt—‘though people tell you that cats don’t
care3

Mr. Hunt has looked after a shipwrecked dog.
a sucking pig, and a seagull with a broken leg.

He has found homes for birds, rabbits and
tortoises.

He has comforted weeping owners saying good—
bye to their pets.

 

 

The gin victim struggles for freedom

PESTS BILL

The unfortunately named Pests Bill has now
gone through the House of Lords.

Its general purpose is to provide for the de'
struction or control of rabbits and other animals
and birds and to regulate the use of spring traps
for killing or taking animals.

In its present form (under Clause 8) it would
give power to the Minister Of Agriculture to
abolish the use of the gin ONLY IN FOUR YEARS’
TIME.

AS THE CLAUSE IS WORDED, THE MINISTER MAY
NOT EVEN THEN MAKE USE OF THESE POWERS AFTER
FOURYEARS.

The RSPCA is appalled that this Clause is still
embodied in the Bill and points out that in 1951

a Government Committee on Cruelty to Wild
Animals expressed the View that:
‘The gin trap is a diabolical instrument which
causes an incalculable amount of suffering}
The Committee’s Opinion continued: ‘Its sale
and use in this country should be banned by law
within a short period of time.’

Whilst the Bill is before the House of Com’
mons, the RSPCA will develop a vigorous cam—
paign for the alteration Of Clause 8.

BIRDS IN GIN STILL ALIVE

Found guilty Of using spring traps to catch rabbits
except in rabbit holes, a professional rabbit
catcher was ﬁned £3 with 23. 10d. costs at Chich’
ester Petty Sessions recently.

Regional Supt Brown said he saw defendant
walk by a hedge in a field. He accompanied dee
fendant round the hedges and found twelve gin
traps set on top of the ground, nowhere near any

' rabbit holes.

Witness added that in one of the traps he found
a pheasant caught by a leg; in another there was a
blackbird and in a third a rabbit was trapped by
bloth front legs. The birds and the rabbit were still
a we.

Defendant agreed that some of the traps were
not in rabbit holes, but the majority were.

(A.8135.)

Reprinted from ‘The Ark’, with acknowledgments.
TO A TRAPPED RABBIT

Did you lie, little brother, the long night hours
through,

With your torn paws held fast in the sharp teeth
of steel?

They did that to Him too.

—His Feet and His Hands felt the pain that you
knew

AS you lay in the trap the tall 1
. grasses concea .
They dld that to Him too. '4

EUI’HEMIA MACLEOD

I”.
ll
é

,Cg.

 

 

 

 




 

 

64 I - THE ANIMAL WORLD

June 1954

 

Heroes’ Corner .
MARGARET WHEATLEY CROSS
AWARDED POSTHUMOUSLY

When the 51—yearvold Mr E. Cartwright was
walking on the bank of the river Tame at Stock—
port, his dog dived into the river. Mr Cartwright
promptly plunged in and was swept over the
weir. Some boys who were watching shouted to
him that he was swimming the wrong way, but
by this time he was in such difﬁculties he did not
hear. He had reached the dog who was making it
difﬁcult for him to perform the rescue.

Mr Cartwright was carried beyond the weir to
a waterfall with a whirlpool and in his attempt
to save the life of his dog he lost his own.

The RSPCA Margaret Wheatley Cross has
been awarded posthumously.

Silver Medals
Two men who have rescued dogs have received

RSPCA Silver Medals for their bravery. Mr
N. T. Revell rescued a dog from a canal at
Bridge Street, Stalybridge, and Mr I. Metcalfe
rescued one from the Herculaneum Dock,
Liverpool.

The rescue performed by Mr Metcalfe was perv
formed in particularly difﬁcult circumstances
since the dock was being ﬂooded at the time. He
did not need to enter the water as he was able to
grasp the dog by descending a rope ladder, but
he was in great danger of being crushed between
the ship and the quay wall.

SHEEP ON A LEDGE

Leading Fireman J. V. Hanley and Mr K.
Wheeler have each received the RSPCA Bronze
Medal for rescuing a sheep from a ledge over the
cliff at Haroldston West Farm, Broad Haven,
Pembrokeshire.

The sheep were spotted ﬁfty feet down over
the cliff and the Chief Fire Ofﬁcer sent men and
gear. A farm employee had made several at—
tempts by rope lowered from the top but was not
able to rescue the animal.

Mr Wheeler went down with Leading Fireman
J. V. Hanley. After being lowered ﬁfty feet they
had to swing backwards and forwards so that they
could get on to the ledge. They had planned it so
that one man should be on each side, of the
sheep whom they secured with an extra rope.
After sending the animal to the top both men
were themselves hauled back to safety. The task
took two hours in very rough weather.

Bronze Medals

Inspector J. T. Greenhalgh rescued a sow from a
well at Boswarthen Farm, Madron, Cornwall.
He has received the RSPCA Bronze Medal, and a

*

similar award has gone to several men who have
rescued dogs. They are: PoliceaSgt W. D. Home,
whose rescue was performed beneath a bridge at
Finedon, Wellingborough; Mr G. Smith, who
rescued a dog from an ice—covered canal at Bee;
hive Bridge, Tipton; PolicevConstable G. D. R.
Noake, who helped in this rescue; Police—Sgt
W. Cookson, who descended a quarry near
Crown Lane, Horwich, Lancs, and Mr B.
Rimmer, whose rescue of a dog was performed
from a derelict museum at Clayton Street,
Liverpool. Two dogs were rescued from a sub!
merged sandbank by Mr J. R. Hough, who is
mentioned as another Bronze Medal winner in

the list of RSPCA awards.

 

CHILDREN THINK OF ANIMAL
WELFARE

How children are growing aware of the problems
of animal-welfare was shown when an RSPCA
lecturer, speaking recently at a Junior School,
found the boys to be very concerned about the
happenings in the Grand National!

Since the last report 136 lectures were given in
schools in Surrey, Wiltshire, Devon, Hertford—
shire, Monmouthshire, Norfolk, Oxford, Hora
sham, Twickenham, Newbury, Coventry, Read—
ing, Rochester and the London area. The Reigate
Animal Defender Group, the Burford Youth
Club (Palmers Green), the Chingford Young
Farmers Club, the Ash Vale Torchbearer Group
and a Scouts and Guides Group at Peckham
were also addressed.

29 new Animal Defender groups were formed; ‘

472 children joined the Headquarters Group.
OBITUARY

With sincere regret we report the following
deaths:

Miss Lucy Broadbent, hon sec of Warrington
Branch; Mrs Robinson, a supporter; Mrs Sanv
ders, wife of the Chairman of GloucestervMid
Branch; the Marquess of Abergavenny, President
of Kent—Tunbridge Wells Branch; Mr W.
Windebank, former hon treasurer of Hampshire
——Southampton and District Branch; Sir George
Fossett Roberts, President of Cardiganshire
Branch; Mrs M. Smith, a supporter; Miss
Pinnell, hon sec of Thorney Hill Auxiliary.

 

OVER £400

A bring and buy and jumble sale organized
1n Gulldford by Mrs Merritt, auxiliary hon
secretary for both Guildford and Merrow,
raised the remarkable sum of more than

 

 

£400 for Branch funds.

 

 

 

 




 

66 THE ANIMAL WORLD

June 1954

 

PROTECTION
OF BIRDS

 

On this subject Mrs Wallis Power (Vice—
Chairman, RSPCA Council), has had published
in The Times a letter which reads:

May I express the congratulations of the
Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals to Lady Tweedsmuir, to the Royal
Society for the Protection of Birds, and to the
Home Ofﬁce advisory committee in getting the
Protection of Birds Bill, 1953, through the
House of Commons? It is understood that the
Bill is a compromise; nevertheless, this Society
welcomes any measure that makes for progress
in matters affecting animals and birds.

Unfortunately, the Bill does not make it an
offence for a person to have in his possession
or control, during the close season, any wild
bird recently killed or taken, as provided for
by section 3 of the Wild Birds Protection Act,
1880. In this year alone, this Society has squ
cessfully prosecuted in 27 cases, involving ﬁnes
and costs amounting to £75, and resulting in
the liberation of 80 wild birds. We have a num‘
ber of other cases still pending, involving lin—
nets, goldﬁnches, greenﬁnches, redpolls, bram—
blings and chafﬁnches. So far as we are aware,
no agriculturist raises serious objection to any
of the birds mentioned, many of which are
beneﬁcial to agriculture, and no sportsman
would think of shooting birds of this kind.

May we hope that Lord Tweedsmuir will ﬁnd
it possible, in the House of Lords, to include a
clause dealing with recently taken wild birds?
As we go to press we learn that the Protection

of Birds Bill, with an amendment as desired by
the RSPCA, has gone through all Stages in both
Houses; it has, however, been returned to the
House of Commons, where the extensive amend,
ments moved in the House of Lords will be given
consideration.

 

The following extracts from an article in The
Times are reprinted with acknowledgments:

NATIVE BIRDS AND ALIEN TREES
Nesting Preferences in Forest and Garden
(From a Correspondent)

Not long since in the Journal of Animal Ecology
Dr and Mrs David Lack published a most interest—
ing paper on ‘Further Changes in Bird Life

caused by Afforestation.’ With the aid of helpers
they had made a census of birds on some of
the Brecklands in East Anglia before they were

‘ afforested and again at certain periods after

afforestation. It was observed that where there
were broadvleaved trees among the conifers the
variety and number of birds to be seen increased.
After 30 years the territory was the poorer by
about 18,500 heathland birds and the richer by
about 66,600 woodland birds—a net gain of
42,100, or over 200 per cent on the original bird
population.

Mixed Woodland

It is known that in woods fully stocked with trees
there are likely to be more birds on the edges,
along rides, and in any clearings than in the heart
of plantations. This applies particularly where
plantatiOns are even—aged and it will hold good for
woods of almost any species: a fully stocked
50—yearvold beechwood might be as dark and
birdvless a place as anyone could ﬁnd.

Conifer Favourites

When one observes certain individual Species in a
park or garden the same trend is apparent. The
Douglas ﬁr, introduced in 1827, is already one of
the species to be most frequented by the golden
crested wren. The two species of Sequoia
(redwood and Wellingtonia), introduced in 1846
and 1853, are both favourites with tree’creepers,
who like to roost in the crevices of the thick
bark. One would guess that the Monterey pine
might similarly make a special appeal. There must
be many gardens where anyone curious about
preferences could conduct a survey of the nests to
be found in alien and indigenous species, both in
individual trees and in hedges.

 

A Tawny Owl, found injured in Christchurch
Meadows, Oxford, perches on the arm of “Senior
Inspector Waite. The owl made a quick recovery
and departed shortly after the picture was taken




 

68 THE ANIMAL WORLD

 

MAN NEGLECTED HIS FOWLS

A ﬁne of £3, with £7 65. costs, was imposed at
Cirencester Magistrates Court on a coal haulier
accused of cruelty to eight fowls.

Announcing the penalty, the Chairman told
him: ‘The Magistrates cannot regard this as any
thing but a very grave case. You knew perfectly
well that these birds were not being properly
fed, and it was your duty in law to make provision
for them.’

The defendant pleaded guilty of causing un'
necessary suffering to the birds by unreasonably
omitting to give them suﬂicient food and care
and attention.

A solicitor, prosecuting on behalf of the
RSPCA, said that it was alleged that the eight
fowls ‘simply wasted away’ because of lack of
food until four of them died and the remainder
had to be destroyed.

Died from Starvation

A neighbour became concerned about the birds
left behind by the defendant when he went away,
temporarily, to live in a different district.

The fowls were in a run with a hut in the
corner four feet by two feet, and there were
also a bowl of dirty water and some partlyveaten
brussels sprout stalks. The four dead birds were
later examined by a veterinary surgeon, who
came to the conclusion that they had died from
starvation.

Asked why he had not destroyed the birds, the
defendant replied: ‘I would have liked to, but
they were not mine. They were my wife’s, and she
would not give me permission to destroy them.’
He said he could not take them to his present
address because there was no room for them.

(A. 7912: Inspector Butﬁeld.)

June 1954

An RSPCA Inspector, when he discovered
this cow, immediately called in a veterinary
surgeon, who described the animal as being
in poor condition as a result of a large
swelling covering the whole of the left side
of the face and head and extending to the
left nostril and lips; he also stated that in
his opinion the jaw of the animal had been
diseased for about two months. The cow
was humanely destroyed. For failing to
give proper care and attention to the
animal, the owner was prosecuted by the
RSPCA and was fined £3, and ordered to
pay £ll l3s. 6d. costs. (A7626; Inspector
Burr; case heard at Wigan.)

RABBITS SQUEALED IN TERROR

A bookmaker, who admitted putting rabbits into
a paddock from which there was no escape and
then liberating greyhounds to chase them, told
the Sevenoaks Magistrates: ‘It is a recognized
practice.’

The man said: ‘Dogs lose interest in chasing
dummy hares. You have to do this to freshen

them up. It’s called giving them a “livener”.’

He pleaded guilty to two charges of causing
unnecessary suffering to captive rabbits. He was
ﬁned a total of £30 with £9 93. costs.

RSPCA counsel said that the defendant
trained and exercised greyhounds for competia
tion. One day he instructed his kennelman to
liberate ﬁve rabbits one by one into small pad—
docks wired off with netting.

‘When the dogs were let into the paddocks the
rabbits squealed out in terror. They were seized,
but not killed instantly, although they were after‘
wards dispatched on the instructions of the
defendant. One rabbit was put in with ﬁve greyv
hound puppies which were allowed to savage
it until they had had enough.’

On a second occasion the defendant instructed
two children to dangle the rabbits in front of the
dogs and then liberate them, said RSPCA
counsel.

For the defendant, it was said that although
the offences were admitted the details were
denied. The defendant said he did not regard this
practice with the rabbits as cruel. (A. 7952:
Senior Inspector Smith.)

 

Segiember: fresh clean water is essential for the
it s!

A (44" .

 

 

 




 

70 THE ANIMAL WORLD

June 1954

 

THE ROCKS ARE SAVED

The threat to destroy a rookery at Ellerthwaite
Gardens, Windermere, aroused local indignation
and RSPCA Headquarters was asked to take up
the matter with the Lakes Urban District Council.
Representations were made to the Surveyor, both
by letter and by personal contact on the part of
Inspector Harland, and the happy result of these
negotiations is given in the following extract from
the local Press:

‘. . . Following-the decision to use ﬁre hoses to
remove the nests, the Council received indignant
letters—one from as far away as Bristol—~com’
plaining about the intended action, and there
were also representations from the RSPCA.
As a result, the decision has been rescinded and
so the rooks will stay.’ '

IMPROVEMENTS IN MARKETS

Two muchvneeded loading ramps have been prOv
vided at Drifﬁeld Market, at a cost of £120.
Senior Inspector Marsh has long been pressing
for these ramps to be installed, as the absence
of such facilities has been the cause of much
needless suffering to animals passing through the
market. ‘

Extensive improvements have also been car—
ried out at Rochford Market, due to the unv
remitting efforts of. Senior Inspector Pope, with

.the result that the calves’ pen is now covered

with a tarpaulin sheet, and various other altera—
tions have been made, with a View to protecting
the animals concerned from crowding and rough
handling.

At St Clears Market, Cornwall, the calves’ pens

have been reconditioned and straw bedding is
provided. Inspector Tremlett reports that work
has begun on the reconditioning of cattle pens
at this market. \
At Romsey the RSPCA Inspector has persuaded
the authorities to provide "covered pens for the
calves, with straw bedding. At Ashford (Kent)
Market, the Inspector has abolished the system
whereby dealers and buyers stationed themselves
in the, exit passage from the auction ring, causing
confusion and fear to the cattle.

ANIMAL SUNDAY

Lambs, dogs, cats, mice and guinea pigs were
among the animals brought to the Royal Pavilion
grounds on a recent Sunday, when the Bishop of
Lewes (the Right Rev Geoffrey Warde) con!
ducted Brighton’s ﬁrst Animal Sunday service.

 

BRANCH NEWS ‘

YOUNG—BUT
LEARNING
This picture and
the one below
(next column)
were taken when
the Bambi Group
had its Annual
Party at St john
Hall, Bromley.

 

Berkshire—Newbury and District The Rev R._ R. Woodﬁeld
conducted a service for pets at Shaw-cum-Donnington.
Blackpool The branch annual meeting held at the Town
Hall, Blackpool, was opened by the Mayoress, Mrs E.
Smith, deputizing for the Mayor, Councillor Edwin Smith,
JP, who is branch president. Mrs M. Jordan, hon sec of the
Women’s Social Committee, said they had worked hard
and done their best, and the committee were satisﬁed with
the results. A report submitted by Inspector Heyes showed
that eight cases of cruelty had been reported to Headquarters.
Mr T. Bridge, branch hon treasurer, reported a satisfactory
ﬁnancial year, and Mrs Jones, branch hon secretary, gave a
résumé of the branch’s activities.

Thanks to the Mayoress, Inspector Heyes, committee
members and ofﬁcials were expressed by Mr Arthur Warner,
branch chairman. .

Buckinghamshire Miss .Moore, Winslow aux hon sec,
with the help of Miss Kirby, organized a rummage sale and
raised £25 for branch funds.

Burton-on-Trent Inspector Jones addressed members of the
Blackfordby Women’s Institute on the work of the Society.
Fifteen shillings was donated for branch funds.
Caernarvonshire—Llandudno and District Mr Lloyd-J ones,

branch chairman, presided at the branch annual meeting.
Mrs Parke, branch president, attended. A report of the year’s
work was presented by Miss Unwin, branch hon secretary,
and Wing-Comdr Hillier, branch organizer, gave an address.
A collection taken at the meeting raised £9 9s. and £10 was
made from a stall—both sums were for branch funds.
Cirencester The branch annual meeting was preceded by
the formal annual meeting of the Cirencester Independent
Association. Wing-Comdr Hillier, branch organizer, attended.
Cleveland and Tees-Side Mrs Hart, branch hon sec, reports
that at the branch annual meeting, Mr Geoffrey Dixon was
elected president, succeeding Mr Arthur Dorman, who held
the ofﬁce for twenty years. Miss M. McCombie was re-
elected chairman, Miss Hart hon secretary, and Mr H.
Middletonhon treasurer. A talk was given by MrsWynne
Finch, Carlton and Faceby—in—Cleveland aux co hon sec.
Cornwall East The branch annual general meeting was held
at the home of Mrs Kendall, branch co hon sec. Wing-Comdr
Hillier spoke and a report was submitted by Inspector
Grinnall.

Devon—North A public meeting was held at the COuncil
Chambers, IlfracOmbe, presided over by Lady Williams,
vice-president of the branch. Added to the interest of the
speeches were presentations of prizes by the Vicar of Ilfra-
combe to several Animal Defenders, who had won awards
for the best essays on ‘kindness to animals’, and of the
RSPCA bronze medal and certiﬁcate of merit to Mr E.

  

‘ These children
are considered
too young to be
Animal Defend-
ers, but their

leader,MrsLans-
bury, teaches
them animal

welfare

 

 

 




 

72 THE ANIMAL WORLD

May 1954

 

 

Another picture
showing animal
welfare progress
in Trieste: the
kennels

 

mittee was returned en bloc. Lt-Col Coventry, branch
organizer, addressed the meeting.

Manchester and Salford Mrs Johnson, Northenden and
' Wythenshawe aux hon sec, reports the ﬁrst social event held
by the auxiliary. It was a whist drive held in the Church Hall,
Northenden. Mr J. Green, branch secretary, attended and
presented the prizes.

Newcastle upon Tyne At a meeting of the branch com-
mittee, Mrs Mungo Campbell, branch president, presented
Mr H. A. B. Coulson with a cheque, a gift of the ofﬁcers
and members of the branch committee, on the occasion of
his retirement from the secretaryship.

Norfolk—Mid and Norwich A whist drive organized by
Mrs Hampson Jones, Drayton auxiliary hon sec, raised
£12 6s. for branch funds..

Miss Kathleen Fincham, Attleborough aux hon see, with
the help of Mr R. C. Fox, organized the branch annual
dance at Attleborough Public Hall and raised £18 for
branch funds.

Oxford Senior Inspector Waite addressed the 5th District
Police Training School on the work of the RSPCA.
Preston and District Mrs H. Kay, branch hon sec, reports
that a sports quiz raised £50 for branch funds.

Shropshire Mrs Meredith, Shrewsbury aux hon sec, reports
that the auxiliary held a whist drive and raised £43 105. for
branch funds.

Southport, Birkdale and District The Mayor of Southport
presided at the branch annual meeting, at which Lt-Col
Coventry, branch organizer, was the speaker. Miss Richards,
branch hon sec, reports that the meeting was successful.
Staffordshire—North Lady Bagot, branch president, took
the chair at the annual meeting at the North Stafford Hotel,
Stoke-on-Trent. The president, joint hon secretaries, Mrs
Berry and Major Pollard (who is also hon treasurer) and
hon treasurer were re-elected. Lt—Col Coventry addressed
the meeting.

Stockport, East Cheshire andWest Derbyshire The branch
held its annual meeting at the Town Hall, Stockport, and
the speaker was Mr C. Owen Hockin, Council Member.
Stourbridge and District At the branch annual meeting
which was attended by Wing-Comdr Hillier, a successful
year was reviewed. Mr and Mrs Parker are joint hon secs.

Prizes were presented to a number of juveniles who had
taken part in a poster competition.

Streatham, Brixton and Clapham Continuing the centenary
celebrations of the branch, the Spa Repertory Company
gave an excellent performance of the play called, most ap-

propriately, ‘100 years old’, in the hall of Streatham Congre- '

gational Church, in April. It was under the most able direc-
tion of Mrs Anne Farrow, ALAMHons(Eloc), and brought
in a net proﬁt of about £16.

The committee was glad to welcome Inspector Jones, who

had just been appointed temporarily as Branch Inspector,
and who was making his ﬁrst appearance at a branch
function.
Surrey—Guildford and District A bring and buy and
jumble sale organized at the Holy Trinity Parish Hall,
Guildford, by Mrs Merritt, aux hon sec for both Guildford
and Merrow, raised over £400 for branch funds. Mr H. E.
Roscoe declared the sale open. The branch chairman, Rev
A. C. B. Bellerby, thanked Mr Roscoe. Presentations were
made to Mrs Roscoe and Mrs Merritt.

Sussex East and Hastings The branch president, the Hon
Mrs Co‘oper-Key, at the branch annual meeting, held in the
Town Hall, Hastings, congratulated ofﬁcers for their work
during the year. Mrs Sletcher, branch hon sec, and Mr L. F.
Gallop, branch hon treas, submitted reports for the year.
Seventy-eight complaints had been investigated by Senior
Inspector Hession. Councillor W. A. Wiggins, chairman,
said the RSPCA had splendid workers all over the country.
Vale of Mowbray Miss Jackson, a member of the branch
committee, and Miss Horner organized a sale of work. Miss
Sharples, branch hon sec, deputizing for Lady Hunter, who
was unable to attend, opened the sale. An Animal Defender
presented Miss Sharples with a bouquet. Miss Sharples
asked Chief Inspector Meara to convey this to Lady Hunter
with the good wishes of all present. The sum of £16 was raised
for branch funds. ,
Wiltshire North The branch annual meeting was held at the
Town Hall, Calne, the Mayoress of Calne being present.
Mrs Wheeler, branch hon sec, reporting on the annual
meeting, says that everyone enjoyed hearing about the work
of the RSPCA from Mr Camm.

Yorkshire—Bridlington, Malton and District Mrs Roper
Spencer, branch chairman, reported a successful annual
general meeting of this branch. An address was given by Mr
Stanley Watson, Huddersﬁeld branch hon sec. The following
ofﬁcers were appointed: President, Dr W. O. C. Jarratt;
chairman, Mrs H. ROper Spencer; hon sec, Mrs L. Gray;
hon treas, Mr J. T. Green; hon box sec, Mrs P. Wray;
Drifﬁeld auxiliary, hon sec, Mrs Blakeston.
Yorkshire—Harrogate and District The Mayor presided at
the branch annual meeting at the Hotel St George, Harro—
gate. Reports were submitted by the branch hon secretary
(Mr T. H. Lusher) and the branch hon treasurer (Mr
A. S. C. Newman). An address was given by Lieut-Col
Coventry, branch organizer.

. Senior Inspector Jackson gave a talk to the Police Train-
ing School at Pannal Ash on the work of the RSPCA.

‘james’, whose
picture comes
from Mrs E.
Strapp, Emp-
shott

 

The Society’s ﬁlms were sent to the following places for
showing recently: Torquay, Lincoln, St Helens, Acklam,
Helliﬁeld, Wavendon, Hull, Seaford, Maidstone, Hornsea,
Bridgend, Middlesbrough, Broughton Moor, lviuch Wen~
lock, Reading, Barnsley, Gloucester, Stourbridge, St
Briavels, Berwick upon Tweed, Hexham, Caversham,
Blackburn, Cowley, Okehampton, Dereham, Petersﬁeld,
Henley—on’Thames, Birchington, Preston, Pitsford, West
Bergholt, Warrington, Hilsea, Nutbourne, Widley, Brainv
tree, Epsom, Monkseaton, St Leonards—on—Sea, London
Docks, Leek, Bideford, Bournemouth, Bury, Battersea,
Dagenham, Hatherleigh, Thorndon, Bootle, N Kensington,
Coseley, Crofton Park, Kirkbyvin-Ashﬁeld, Adlington,
Diss, Peterborough, Canvey Island, Basingstoke, Longlevens.

 

 

 




 

 

 

@MEEGDRMS

Manufacturers of
UNIFORM CLOTHING

HOBSON & SONS CAPS HELMETS LEATHER
(LONDON) LTD

BELTS POUCHES etc. etc.

Gold and Silver Laces
Embroideries of every
All enquiries to descrlptlon for ALL

154-164 TOOLEY STREET UNIFORMED SERVICES

LONDON BRIDGE S.E.1 PATTERNS OF CLOTH
and ESTIMATES
Telephone: HOP 2476 (4 lines) will be forwarded free of charge
Telegrams: HOBSON, BOROH, LONDON

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ROSCPOCOA:

 

 

FORM OF BEQUEST FOR NATIONAL WORK

TO those benevolent individuals who may wish to become benefactors byWill to this
Society, the following form is respectfully suggested:—

‘I bequeath to the ROYAL SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY To ANIMALS, founded

1824, for the general purposes of that Society, the sum of £ ............................................ , free

of death duty and the receipt of the Treasurer for the time being of the said Society shall

be sufficient discharge for such legacy.’ (If it should be desired that the legacy should be ex—

pended on some particular phase of the Society’s work, a direction to this eﬁect may be added to the

form of bequest.)

 

NOTE
By the Act of William IV and I Victoria, cap. 26, all Wills or Codicils must be in Writing signed by the

Testator, and attested by two witnesses in the presence of the Testator and of each other.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Printed by Shenval Press, Simson Shand Ltd, London, Hertford and Harlow, and
published by Arthur W. Moss for the RSPCA at 105 Jermyn Street, London,SW1

 




