 

OVERSEAS NEWS
Tanganyika Mrs Stapledon, Mrs Turnbull and Sister
Veronica were the judges in the RSPCA Tanganyika Schools
annual essay competition which was won by the Government
Teachers Training Centre, Mpwapwa.

FORTHCOMING FLAG DAYS

At the time of going1 to press on April 27, we have been
informed that thc 1011011 mg Flag Day collections are to be
held 1n the near future:

Alton Saturday, June 2

 

Anglesey
Barry (G11 111101 1,1 mm)

Bedfordshirc County
Biddulph (Stokc'on—Trent)
Billingh '11111 (Co. Durham)

Blackburn

Boston (Lincolnshiie)

Bradford

Buckinghz unshii 0 County

Bury (Lane as hi1e)
Bury St Edmunds
Cardiff City

Cardiff and District Branch (Glamor

gan County)...

Carnforth (L ancashire)

Cirencester

Conisborou0h (Yorkshire)
Corby and District (Northampton

.Saturday, July 14
Friday GL Saturday,
June 22, 23

. . Saturday, June 9
. Saturday, June 9
. Saturday, July 7
. Saturday, June 16
.. Saturday, June 2
. Saturday, July 14
. Saturday, June 9
Saturday, June 16

.Saturday, June 9
Saturday, June 2

Friday & Saturday,
July 13, 14

. Saturday, June 16

.Saturday, June 9
.Saturday, July 14

 

 

shire) .Friday & Saturday,
June 8, 9
Cumberland North and East Branch
(County) .Saturday, June 23

Cumberland West Branch (County) Saturday, June 23
Denaby Main (near Rotherham) . Saturday, July 14
Exeter Friday, July 6
Faversham (Kent) . Saturday, July 7
Fleetwood (Lancashire) Saturday, June 30
Forest of Dean (Gloucestershire) . Saturday, 111137 7
Gillingham (Kent) Saturday, June 9
Glamorgan Mid and Port Talbot

Branch (G1 1mor01n County) ~ Friday & Saturday,

July 13, 14

Glamorgan West and Swansea Branch

(Glamorgan County) . Friday 8L Saturday,

July 13, 14
Grimsby Saturday, June 2
Hailsham (Sussex) Saturday, June 16
Haverfordwest . Saturday, June 9

Irthlingborough (Wellingborough) Saturday, June 9
. Kendal (Westmorland) .. Saturday, June 16
Kettering Friday & Saturday,
June 15, 16
Knebworth (Hertfordshire) .. Saturday, June 2
ancaster City .. Saturday, June 2
Leeds Saturday, July 14
Merthyr Tydﬁl and District Branch
(Glamorgan County) . . Friday & Saturday,
July 13, 14
Saturday, June 9
Saturday, June 2
. Saturday, June 30

"Monmouthshire CountY ‘
ewport (Monmouthshire)
ewark (Nottinghamshire)

orthampton Saturday, July 21
Norwich Saturday, July 7
uneaton Saturday, June 9

PuCkeridge (Hertfordshire) .. Saturday, June 2
Reedham (Norfolk) . Saturday, June 2
Ugby Saturday, June 9
SaWbridgeworth Saturday, June 2
SCUnt orpe , . Saturday, June 16
Sevenoaks (Kent) . Saturday, June 9

Shefﬁeld Saturday, June 16
Slough Saturday, June 9
Stevenage . Saturday, June 2

Stratford ——on Ayon Saturday, June 9

Todmorden (Lancashire)

. . Friday & Saturday,

June 1, 2
Ware Saturday, June 2
Wareside (Hertfordshire) . Saturday, June 2
Wellingborough . . Saturday, June 2

Saturday, June 23
Saturday, June 23
. Saturday, June 9

West Bromwich

Westmorland County. . .
Whitstable

 

An appeal is made to any readers who are able to assist
these collections to communicate with the local hon
secretary concerned; the name and address of this ofﬁcial

Iwill glady be supplied by RSPCA Headquarters.

COLLECTIONS

(We give wherever possible, the place at which the collection was
made and the name of the organizer or organizers

' FLAG DAYS

Okehampton, Mrs F. E. Weaver, aux hon sec, £81 45.;
Bishop’s Stortford, IVIiss K. A. Hill, aux hon sec, £63 145. 961.;
Towcester, Miss Turner, co aux hon sec, £40 05. 961.;
Macclesﬁeld, Miss A. M. Wain, branch hon sec,
£206 ls. 8d.; Darlington, Miss E. Barr, branch hon sec,
£167 15. 3d.; Rye Park, Mrs Barnes, aux hon sec, £6 55.;
Brookmans Park, Mrs G. E. Tingey, aux hon sec,
£24 165. 1d.; Barnoldswick, Mrs Gale, aux hon sec,
£41 23. 6d.; Shipley and Baildon, Mrs E. M. Moore, aux
hon sec, £117; Fareham, Mr W. R. Walker, aux hon sec,
£114 65. 10d.; Stockton—on—Tees, Mrs M. E. Postle, £313;
Hoddesdon, Mr S. J. Venis, aux hon sec, £13 15. 3d.

HOUSE—TO—HOUSE
Uley and Owlpen, Mrs Grigg, £10 185. 361.; Haversham,
Mrs Siggs, aux hon sec, £6 43.; Thornton Heath, Mrs
Crooks, aux hon sec, £60 185. 361.; Leeds (Rothwell), Mrs
Harrison, £1 85. 9d.

LARGE BEGGING DOG BOX

EAST GRINSTEAD. In three days the box collected £8 115 at
a Display at the Radio Centre Cinema.

 

 

 

TEMPLE COX CAPTIVE
BOLT SLAUGHTERING
GUNS

Specially recommended and used by the RSPCA

THREE MODELS——ALL SILENT IN
ACTION

‘UNIVERSAL’ for all animals
‘SMALLS’ for all small animals
‘MARK 6’ for all animals. Designed for heavy

use in large Abattoirs and Freezing Works

TEMPLE COX DEVELOPMENT CO. LTD
HIGH STREET, BROMLEY, KENT

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

June 1956

 

 

ROOKERY NOOK

Trixie, a Persian cat, owned by Mrs May, of
Little Trefeock, decided to take up residence in
a rooks’ nest that was ‘to let’. She was then unz
able to get down from her 60 ft.—high home in a
sycamore tree.

RSPCA Inspector Grinnall, with the help of
Mr A. Wherry and Mr N. Dingle, rescued

Trixie.
BRANCH NEWS

(Where a function is organized for the raising of funds, we
give, wherever possible, the place where held, the type of
function, and the name ofthe organizer or organizers, followed
by the sum raised.)

 

Oscar, the dach-
schund, looks
longingly at a
plate of cakes
held by the
Mayor of Dur-
ham, Councillor
H. L. Cawood, at
a bring and buy
sale the Mayor
opened at Dur-
ham Town Hall
in aid of the
RSPCA. Oscar
sat with his own-
ers, Viscount and
Viscountess
Gort, on the
platform during
the ceremony,
when Lady Brad-
ford, Branch
chairman, pre-
sided

Photo by courtesy of the Newcastle Evening Chronicle

Ashton, Stalybridge, Mossley, Hyde, Glossop and DiStfiCt
Stalybridge, whist drive, Mrs F. A. Rawson Schoﬁeld,
branch hon sec, £18 6s.
Berkshire—Newbury and District Commander D. A. Ray-
ner spoke at the branch annual meeting held at the ‘Chequers’,
Newbury, and the Mayor of Newbury, Coun Pirouet, pre—
81ded. Mrs Kennedy, branch chairman, Mrs Waites, branch
sec, and Inspector Tynan read their reports.
Blrmingham and District The Mayor, accompanied by the
Mayoress, Councillor and Mrs Howell, took the chair at the
annual general meeting of Langley Green and Oldbury
aux111ary. Inspector Edwards spoke. .
Blackpool At the branch annual meeting Mr T. Bridge,
branch hon treas, in his report, praised oﬂicials and SUP-
. . porters for the hard work they had put in during the past.
ear.
Bolton Dr James Leather, branch chairman, presented an
RSPCA certiﬁcate to Leading Fireman Short for trylng t0
lVescue a cat from a seventy foot cooling tower.

aernarvonshire—Llandudno and District Ofﬁcials were

1"ti-elected at the branch annual meeting. Films were shown
after the meeting.

Llandudno, St John’s Chkurch Schoolroom, rummage
sale. £25.
Che§ter Chester, coffee morning and bring and buy sale,
Ladies Committee, £42.
erwborough, East Grinstead and District Branch East
GrmStead. ‘Radio Centre’ Cinema, display. £8 115-

 

THEANIMALWORLD 71

Cumberland—North and East, Penrith, coffee morning, Mrs
P. Krnmont (aux. hon sec.), £26 18s. 7d.
Denbighshlre—East, and Rhyl Henllan, dance, £5 5s.
Durham—South, and North Yorkshire Bishop Auckland,
Queen’s Hotel, dance, Mr P. Woods (Spennymoor auxilliary
hon sec), £17 12s. 4d.

Essex—Mid, Brentwood, Chelmsford, Romford and District
Mrs Donovan, branch hon sec, gave a talk to the Junior
Committee of the Brentwood Road Safety Committee.
Halifax The Mayor of Halifax presided at the branch .
annual meeting held in the Town Hall and presented the
prizes to the Essay competition winners. Reports were
received from Mr E. C. Astin, branch hon treas, and In-
spector Hanson.

Hampshire—South, and Portsmouth Lee-on-Solent, whist
drive, Mrs Little, aux hon sec, £8.

Hull and East Riding Walkington, jumble sale, tombola
and bring and buy sale, Mrs N. B. S. Birch, £60.
Kent—Canterbury and District The branch annual meeting
was held at the County Hotel, Canterbury, and among those
present were Mr and Mrs Dance, the latter being branch
hon sec. Mr G. T. Hall, branch president, made a presenta-
tion to Inspector Rhodes. After the meeting tea was pro-
viﬁed and ﬁlms were shown. A collection of over £12 was
ta en. .7

* .

Tankerton, jumble sale, Miss V. Slingsbury, Whitstable
aux hon sec, £42 11s. '
Lancashire—East, and Blackburn Burnley, bring and buy
sale, Mrs Pick, £24.
Lincolnshire—South, and Grantham Grantham, bridge and
whist drives (consecutive evenings), Mrs Edwards, £18 18s.
Loughborough and North Leicestershire Breedon—on—the-
Hill, whist drive, Mrs J. Bentley, Mrs D. Wakeﬁeld and Miss
Foster, auxiliary co hon secs, £26.

Coleorton, whist drive, Mrs Burrows, aux hon sec, £18.

Swannington, whist drive, Mrs Grewcock and Mrs
Hancock, aux co hon secs, £4.
Macclesﬁeld, South-East Cheshire and Buxton Senior In:
spector Cook presented his report at Buxton auxiliary an;
nual meeting held at Buxton Town Hall. ‘
Newcastle-upon-Tyne Berwick, whist drive, Berwick aux
committee, £10.
Norfolk West Hunstanton auxiliary annual meeting was
held at the Golden Lion Hotel, Hunstanton. Among those
present were Dr C. R. H. Ball, aux chairman; Mr R. Stuart-
Mudie, aux Vice-chairman; Mr E. W. Molyneux, aux hon
treasurer and Mrs Hardy, branch hon sec. ,

         

223::-

Photo by courtesy of the Lancashire Evening Fast

Colonel R. M. Powell, Vice-President of the RSPCA, presents
an RSPCA medal to Mr A. H. Griffin for his gallantry in
rescuing two sheep trapped on a ledge of Whitburrow Scar.
Picture shows left to right: Mrs Clara Boyle (hon sec, West-
morland Branch), Mr Robert Hudson, Mr Griffin, Col R. M.
Powell, Mrs Crewdson (Westmorland Branch Chairman),
and Mr Raymond Hudson

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

ANIMAEH

EWORLD

THE OFFICIAL MAGAZINE OF THE RSPCA

Vol LI No 6 New Series

JUNE I 9 56

PRICE THREEPENCE
5s. 0d. per annum. Post Paid

TRAFFIC IN MISERY

The trafﬁc in worn—out horses still ﬂourishes.

Once it was a trafﬁc between this country and
the Continent. For more than half a century the
RSPCA campaigned against it. The public con;
science was ﬁnally aroused and, following investi’
gations, the Export of Horses (Minimum Values)
Order, 1950, was introduced.

This had the effect of stopping the export of
horses worn out and ﬁt only for slaughter.

But now this country is itself receiving such
horses. They come from Eire and, despite the
regulations demanding that they should be
examined before export, they arrive in such a
condition that this remark can be wrung from an
experienced RSPCA Inspector:

‘I was on duty at Birkenhead when I saw
twenty—six horses unshipped from SS ,
from Eire. They all appeared to be knackers
and some of them the roughest looking lot
I have seen land here for some time.’

The Inspector watched that they were fed,
watered and bedded down.

Regulations in this country demand that horses
on arrival shall be examined by a veterinary
surgeon. This has led in recent weeks to the
detention and, in several instances, to the dCStI'UC’
'tion of horses considered unﬁt to continue their
journey to various parts of the country.

On March 2, at Fishguard, of nineteen
knackers on one boat from Cork, eight were
found unﬁt to travel; of these, one was im—
mediately slaughtered.

 

Next day, at the same port, of twenty—nine
horses ‘not classed as knackers, but old and
worn out’, seven were detained. The following '
dayi, of nine knackers, two were detained as
un t.

The veterinary surgeons at the ports of disemr
barkation are doing all they can, with the RSPCA
Inspectors, to reduce the likelihood of suffering. '

But the RSPCA believes that distress is inevitv
able in this trafﬁc. Old and worn out horses can'
not be treated as merchandise without grave risk
of suffering.

Such animals should be humanely killed

~ in Eire. This country may have need of the horse

ﬂesh, and there is no reason why it should not be
imported—as dead meat.

Surely our countrymen have no wish to
import cruelty. For this is what we are doing
whilst we accept the trafﬁc in worn—out
horses.

A trade in horseflesh, the dealers argue, would
mean the use of refrigeration. That would send
up the price of the meat.

‘We cannot afford to do it!’ they say.

To this, the RSPCA replies: ‘No people can
afford to have this trafﬁc on their conscience.
They cannot condone the inevitable sufferings
involved in the trafﬁc in decrepit horses!’

All of us who accept the trade without
vigorous protests are helping to prolong the
existence of this trafﬁc in misery.

EDITOR

 

MARKET DAY

Oft have I seen with sorrow and unrest
The souls of creatures peering from their eyes,
Suddenly showing in a glance distressed,
Seeking mine pleadingly in sad surmise;

.And I have pitied these poor silent friends,
Pitied their wordlessness and twilight minds,
Driven through heedless streets to unknown ends,

Hurried along by rough, unloving hinds.
. AVICE COULTON

PROSECUTIONS

The four centre pages of this issue carry
reports (in some instances illustrated) of
RSPCA prosecutions. This note is printed
as a warning to readers who prefer to tear out

the centre pages and avoid seeing them.

 




 

 

 

 

June 1956

 

THEANIMALWORLD 65

 

may be removed.

 

 

WARNING—PROSECUTIONS. On this and the following three pages are sum—
maries of recent prosecutions. Pictures appear in the centre pages. The four pages

 

 

 

 

KITTEN THROWN THIRTY—FIVE
FEET

- A three—month’old kitten was thrown thirty—ﬁve
feet from the balcony of a block of ﬂats, Ner
castleaupon’Tyne magistrates were told.

The defendant pleaded guilty to ill—treating a
cat and was ﬁned £15 with £4 45. costs.

RSPCA Inspector Blain said that the de'
fendant had come in from work and he saw
a kitten, picked it up and threw it thirty—ﬁve
feet to the concrete ﬂoor below.

‘All over the house’

The defendant said he did not like cats as they
were ‘all over the house’ and often ate his food.

He was told he could not keep an animal for
the next three years.

On examination the kitten was found to be
. suffering from shock and bruising. One of his
hind legs was sprained and he was unable to use it.

After proper treatment the kitten was returned
to his owner as he did not belong to the de’
fendant. (B.90.)

PONY LEFT ON CHAIN FOUR DAYS
IN ICE, SNOW

A gypsy, living in a caravan, pleaded guilty at
Leigh to causing unnecessary suffering for four
days to an Exmoor pony, by not giving it food,
care and attention.

He was ﬁned £10 plus £6 10$. costs.

The case submitted for the RSPCA showed
that the pony was tethered for two weeks by a
chain. to a spike in the middle of a large ﬁeld
without shelter or protection of any kind. It had
only a radius of ten feet in which to move. On
two nights when there was a severe frost and a
heavy fall of snow, the pony scraped the ground
in an endeavour to ﬁnd grass.

No one was seen to approach the pony for
four days.

The defendant said he asked his two schoolboy
sons to feed the pony but they did not. He got a
quantity of hay and oat straw after the police
had seen him. (RSPCA Inspector Faulkner Case
No. B605.)

‘CRYING’ SPANIEL SAVAGED
BY DOG—Witness alleges
Hands on hips, a farmer smiled and watched his
two collieoairedales savage a spaniel ‘crying like
a child’, it was alleged at Bognor Regis, when the
RSPCA prosecuted the farmer fOr causing un—
necessary suffering to a dog by unreasonably
inciting his airedales to attack it. . ’ ‘

The farmer, who was ﬁned £2, with £5 53.
costs, said in evidence: ‘I did not set my dogs to
savage it. I told them to “See it off”.’

‘It would have been so easy to adopt a less
forcible or painful method for getting the spaniel
off his premises’, said counsel for the RSPCA.

The owner of the spaniel said the dog was very
docile and she looked in the meadow because
there was such a noise going on. ‘My dog was
crying just like a child.’

She said the farmer made no attempt to separ—
ate the “ dogs.

She alleged that he allowed the attack to go on
for three or four minutes and then said: ‘Well,
that’s enough for now.’ He separated the animals
by pulling the tail of one of his dogs.

A veterinary surgeon said the spaniel was
suffering from multiple puncture wounds on the
head, neck and back, bruising, and it could not
move Without pain.

The farmer told the court that he kept a
TT herd of Guernsey cattle, paid £15 an acre to
keep the grass in condition, and dogs might bring
disease on to the farm. -

When he saw the spaniel he told his dogs to
‘See him off’. The spaniel stood his ground,
probably growled and the animals fought.

He called and whistled them off, and 'then sepaa
rated them by pulling one of his dogs by the tail.

The chairman said: ‘We have a certain amount
of sympathy with you because dogs trespassing
on property of this sort is dangerous in many ways.

‘But we feel that earlier steps should have been
taken to disengage these dogs.’ (B683; Chief
Inspector Pickett and Inspector Burr.)

COW TREATED
WITH ‘UT MOST BRUTALITY’

A farmer who was ﬁned £25 with £9 68. costs
for causing unnecessary suffering to a cow was
told at Leeds City Court by the Stipendiary
Magistrate ‘You treated this animal with the
utmost brutality’.

A solicitor prosecuting for the RSPCA said
that the evidence showed a ‘callous and indifferent
attitude’ on the part of the farmer. The. cow was
taken to the public abattoir and slaughtered.
When the carcase was examined it was found that
the animal’s right eye was missing and the head
diseased.

The farmer said the cow went blind six
months previously. He did not think anything
could be done with the animal and so did not
send for a veterinary surgeon to treat it. (3858;
Inspector King). .

 




I. ‘ I I. 1 )l» Il§r ‘ L'l‘dlalsl .i . {11.11 l?.¢..\ FN’KIV. 'li‘i. 5.1! Q..- (It, . x ‘ﬂltm { l \u‘. . I I. ll . I {1111‘ \ .A
. . . . . ALI... .. L.f§_.

 

 

s
3..
3
ud
.4.
u

 

\
_
...
.
».

 

 

[Mi

 

ssM

. Wri
l

ght

 




 

 

 

 

June 1956

THE ANIMAL WORLD

63

 

 

RESCUING SHEEP:
PLUCKY POLICEMAN MISSED DEATH BY INCHES

Loose stones and rocks dislodged as Police
Sergeant Jones rescued two sheep from cliffs at
Castell Ogof, St Davids, increased the hazards
of a plucky rescue. One piece of rock estimated
to weigh about 50 lbs. missed the sergeant by
inches.

Immediately the Sergeant heard that the ani—
mals were in difﬁculty, he went to the scene,
accompanied by Police Constable Evans. His
readiness is not surprising considering that he
already holds the silver medal of the RSPCA for

gallantry in the rescue of animals.

Inaccessible
Castell Ogof is a small inaccessible bay between

Porth Castell and Porthvyr—rhaw. The cliffs
at this point are 200 ft. high and almost vertical.

The ﬁrst sheep was located on a ledge
160 ft. from the top. Descent was impossible,
except by rope. The ground was frozen, and,
to prevent a landslide when driving stakes into
the ground for the rope, the men had to stand
back from the cliff edge.

When lowered, Sergeant Jones was out of sight
all the time, and the operation was at ﬁrst directed
by whistles; though their sound was ﬁnally
drowned by the noise of the sea.

Ascent

The Sergeant was hauled up with the sheep,
whom he had by this time secured. Several times
the sheep was caught on protruding rocks and

had to be freed.

TAKING
NOURlS HMEN T

Photo by courtesy of john Rimell, Hackbridge

The green plover is taking nourishment provided by the
RSPCA at Sutton. The bird was picked up exhausted during
a fog and at the time the picture was taken was on the
way to recovery. Shortly afterwards the bird was released.

The second sheep was found at the foot of the
cliff. Injured, the animal had to be brought to the
top in a tarpaulin.

For his gallantry, Police Sergeant Jones has
received a bar to the RSPCA silver medal he
already holds.

Medals

RSPCA silver medals have gone to Mr James
Morris James, Police Constable James Davies and
Inspector Waddleton, for rescuing two sheep
trapped on a cliff ledge at Cwmtydi, Cardigan;
shire, as well as to Mr J. Croft, who rescued a
dog from a quarry at Geelong Road, Brooklyn,
Melbourne, Australia.

 

MUD SAVED TONY’S LIFE

 

 

When Tony, a two-year-old cocker spaniel, fell 50 feet into
a disused mineshaft at Storrs, Stannington, near Sheffield,
his life was saved by mud which broke his fall. Tony’s young
master, Alan Booth, cried his heart out until the dog was
restored to him by the RSPCA.

-The rescue of Tony was performed by Divisional Officer
Eyre of the ﬁre brigade. Tony was given a rub-down by an
RSPCA ambulance driver who made sure there was nothing
seriously wrong with him. Alan’s father located the dog in
the shaft by calling down and receiving an answering yelp.

 

 




 

June 1956

A U. a WED
10
surrrn

Photo by courtesy of Chief
Constable of Warwickshire

THE ANIMAL WORLD

'67

 

A man was prosecuted by the RSPCA at Warwick Magistrates’ Court, for failing to give proper
and necessary care and attention to an adult female tabby cat, when in a suﬁ'ering state. He was

ﬁned £2 2s. with £5 5s. costs.

When seen by an RSPCA inspector the cat was found to' have a large suppurating wound, ap-
proximately 3 inches in diameter, on the left side of her face, back and throat (as will be seen from
the photograph). The fur on her chest was matted with dry pus. No trace of antiseptic was noticed,

and the wound smelled badly.

A veterinary surgeon said there appeared to have been a number of bites over the area. He
thought the cat had undergone substantial and unnecessary suffering, without evidence of any
treatment. The cat was given a humane end. (B.l55.)

 

SICK BIRDS SENT T O MARKET

A consignment of sick and emaciated birds sent‘

by him to be sold at the Cheltenham Market
resulted in a farmer appearing at Cheltenham
Magistrates’ Court.

He was ﬁned £10 and ordered to pay costs of
£6 63., for exposing poultry for sale in a manner
likely to cause them unnecessary suffering.

‘The Justices regard this as a rather bad case,’
remarked the chairman announcing the penalty.
‘While no doubt it is true that you were not im’
mediately responsible for the packing of these
birds, nevertheless you were responsible for them
being offered for sale.’ - - ~ - ' .

It was said on behalf of the RSPCA that the
ConditIOn of the birds when exposed for sale-in

the market was such, owing to illness, as to cause -

them suffering by reason of their conﬁnement in
Open market cases. '

Emaciated Condition
When Inspector Butﬁeld'rﬁrst saw the birds he

requested the destruction of ﬁve, four of which
were unable to stand. The ﬁfth had a large area
of its back badly peeked as a result of‘feather'"
plucking. , ‘ ,

There were seventy—seven birds—all Light
Sussex type capons—in the consignment.

‘All the birds were thin, and stood with
drooped heads; they were all very weak, sickly
and miserable’, said the Inspectors’ report.

(3.592.)

PIG KILLED WITH A CHISEL

A’ man used an axe and chisel to slaughter an
animal, Hereford Magistrates were told.

He pleaded not guilty to slaughtering a pig
without pre—stunning. " .

Two other men were charged with aiding and.
abetting. . ‘ . .

All three men were given a conditional diSv
charge on payment of £4 55. 6d. costs. (Inspector
Anthony; Case No. B533.) " .

 




' June 1956

 

SMALL SCHOOL—LARGE HEART

The smallest school in the district but probably
the most enthusiastic audience was the opinion
of one RSPCA lecturer after a Visit to a Primary
School.

Since the last report ninetyrnine lectures were
given in schools in Northumberland, Denbigh’
shire, Kent, Norwich, Cromer, Barnsley, Roch—
dale, Nottingham, Salford, Pirbright and the
London area. A Youth Fellowship in Winchmore
Hill, London, an Anglican Young Persons’ Asso'
ciation, SE22, and two Animal Defender groups
in Salford and Northenden were also addressed.

Thirty—nine new Animal Defender groups were
formed; 543 children joined the Headquarters

ANIMAL
DEFENDERS’
PARTY

Dennis Porter, a founder member, Mrs
]. Rowell, Group Leader, Inspector Cole
and prizewinners at the jackdaw
Group’s Annual Party

THE ANIMAL WORLD 69

IMPROVEMENTS IN MARKETS

Recently, notable market reforms have been
brought about in various places by the efforts of
local RSPCA Inspectors. '

At Market Drayton Cattle Market, the pig
pens are now well sheltered from sun and wind.

At Shrewsbury, dealers are no longer allowed
entry to the calf pens.

At Bolton Market, a battle which has been
waged for more than a year has at last been won
and shelter has been provided for at least half
the pigs. The Inspector hopes to win a complete
Victory before many weeks have passed.

At 'Hereford Cattle Market, a milking unit is
to be installed, so that all cows can be milked out
before they leave the premises, thus preventing
any possibility of overstocking.

At Halifax Market, the task of covering the
pig pens is proceeding apace; much needed repairs
to a loading ramp have been carried out and
modern lighting has been installed. Children are
now prohibited from entering this Market.

Alterations to the sale ring at Chippenham
Market will obviate beating of the animals as
they enter the ring.

At Winchester Market, protecting walls have
been built on either side of the loading ramp, to
save the cattle from slipping their feet over the
sides of the ramp and suffering injury, as previ»
ously happened. '

 

STRANDED WHALES

A directive seeking to promote the welfare of
whales stranded on the British coast has been
sent by the Ministry of Transport and Civil
Aviation to all Receivers of Wreck.

The directive asks these ofﬁcials to co—operate
with RSPCA Inspectors, and it has been sent at
the request of RSPCA Headquarters.

The RSPCA was concerned at the fate of a
whale stranded by the receding tide on the
Cornish coast in January this year. Receiving‘no
help, the animal died within a few hours.

Shape Handicap

Oval in shape, a whale almost invariably rolls
over on to its side when stranded in tidal pools.
When this happens, the blow hole at the top of
the head is often submerged and the whale may
drown even in shallow water. .

RSPCA Inspectors hearing from Receivers
0f Wreck of a stranded whale will do their
best to have the animal kept on an even keel.
They must try to prop it up in that posmon
till the incoming tide allows it to ﬂoat away.

A stranded whale must be kept cool and wet.
SaCking laid on the animal will be sprayed or
douched with sea water.

This work will be undertaken by RSPCA Inv
spectors or helpers whose services they will
enlist.

Inexperienced people seeing a whale—or any
other animal—in difﬁculty can do most good by
getting in touch with the nearest RSPCA In—
spector.

TRAP VICTIM

Senior Inspector
Green with a
spring tooth trap
removed from a
swan’s Ieg. The
bird had been in
agony; so bad was
its condition that
a humane end had
to be given. This
was the second
swan caught. in a
gin in the Thetford
area within a few
weeks. The first
one was restored
to health.

Photoby courtesy of the
Eastern Daily Press

 

 

 

 




 

ROYAL SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS
Founded 1814 Headquarters: 105 Jermyn Street, London, S.W.1

P A T R O N S
HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN
HER MAJESTY QUEEN ELIZABETH, THE QUEEN MOTHER
HER ROYAL HIGHNESS PRINCESS ALICE COUNTESS OF ATHLONE
HER ROYAL HIGHNESS PRINCESS ARTHUR OF CONNAUGHT

PRESIDENT
PROFESSOR GILBERT MURRAY, OM, MA, DLITT, DCL, FBA

VICE-PRESIDENTS
SIR MALCOLM SARGENT, HON LLD, DMUS, FRCM, FRSA

THE EARL OF SHAFTESBURY, KP, PC COLONEL R. M. POWELL, DSO

THE COUNCIL

Chairman: THE RT HON LORD MERTHYR, DL, TD, JP
Vice-Chairman: *MRS WALLIS POWER, JP

 

 

*ALLIBERT, MRS . FREEMAN, PETER, ESQ, MP *PRITCHARD, MRS D.
*ALSOP, ALDERMAN A. J., FRCA, FCIS, JP GARDNER, HON. JULIET *RATTRAY, R. F., ESQ, MA, PH.D

ANDERSON, L. K., ESQ, MRCVS, DVM. *HARVEY, MRS J. w., MA RISELEY, MRS R. C.

BERTIE OF THAME, THE RT HON THE VISCOUNTESS HOBHOUSE, J. S. ESQ. *RIECK, H. H., ESQ

BRANSOM, MISS L. G., FRSA HOGG, s. R., ESQ, DSO, MC SHAFTESBURY,-THE RT HON THE COUNTESS OF
BYWATER, H. E., ESQ., MRCVS HOWELL, BASIL P., ESQ, MBE SIBLY, W. A., ESQ, MA, JP

CONNICK, REV. WILLIAM, BD, FR MET s, HON CF *HUNTER, MISS SNELL, ALDERMAN THE REV PREBENDARY L. J. B.,
*COOPER, ALDERMAN J. D., JP LEE, MRS E. M. MBE, TD, HON.CF (HEREFORD)
DORCHESTER, LT-COL THE RT HON LORD, OBE, JP LOCKWOOD, LT-COL J. C., JP, TD *TAIT, MRS, MA
*DOWDELL, MRS M. R. LONGMAN, MRS w. *WALFORD, MRS DESBOROUGH
ESTCOURT-OSWALD, MISS AGNES, MB (LOND), DPH MACNAGHTEN, MAJOR A. *WHITE, HARRY, ESQ, FCA

(CANTAB), DOMS MOORE, LT-COL SIR THOMAS, CBE, MP WILLERT, SIR ARTHUR, KBE

*EVANs, MRS DAVID, BA POULETT, THE RT HON THE EARL *WINCHESTER, F. J., ESQ, FCIS, Fss

 

 

POWELL, COL R. M., DSO
*Denotes Branch Representative

 

OFFICE BEARERS APPOINTED BY THE COUNCIL

Hon Treasurer—LT-COL J. C. LOCKWOOD, J.P., TD
Deputy Hon Treasurer—HARRY WHITE, ESQ, FCA
Hon Medical Officer—A. N. CRAWFORD, ESQ, FRCSI
Bankers—MESSRS COUTTs AI\D CO, STRAND, LONDON

(,hief Secretary—ARTHUR w. MOSS, ESQ, MBE, ACIS

Assistant Secretary—D. A. L. CAMM, ESQ, BA

Legal Secretary—J. HALL, ESQ

Chief Veterinary Officer—MAJOR R. C. G. HANCOCK, BSC, MRCVS
Auditors—MESSRS VINEY, PRICE AND GOODYEAR, CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS

Telegrams—WHITEHALL 7177

Telephone—Whitehall 7177

 

 

FLAG DAY
GOODS

PLASTIC BADGES

LIST ON APPLICATION

THE UNIVERSAL BUTTON CO. LTD.

1-9 Birkbeck Street, Bethnal Green, LONDON, E.2
Telephone: BIShopsgate 5750 Telegrams: ‘Unibutco Edo'

 

 

 

   
 

‘Going out and
leaving me on
my own with no
food or water.
— Hello, hello,
is that the

RSPCA?’

 
  
 

:SIMPl
SAFE.
. SURE fmﬂ Xi

CAPTIVE BOLT PISTOL
FOR ALL ANIMALS

ICCHS AND snuvoxs LIo - BIRMINGHAM - s - ”an“
5456

 

 

       

(Reprinted from The Star, London, with acknowledgments)

 

 

 




 

/

 

 

 

 

62 THEANIMAL WORLD 1,”,61956
THE RSPCA AT WORK
APRIL 1956 Total number of COMPLAINTS from January Ist 9,057

RSPCA INSPECTORS

2,214 Complaints of cruelty investigated.
1 Offender imprisoned.
78 Oﬁenders ﬁned.
49 Persons guilty of minor acts of cruelty cautioned in writing.
828 Registered Cautions were administered by Inspectors.

CLASSIFICATION OF CONVICTIONS

HORSES—Working in an unﬁt state, neglecting, beating 5
DONKEY—~Neglecting 1
CATTLE—Neglecting 2
SHEEP—Neglecting 1
PIGS—Neglecting, beating .. 6
GOAT—Killing in improper manner . . . . . . . . . 1
DOGS—Neglecting, kicking, injuring with missile, etc. 23
CATS—Neglecting, shooting and wounding 6
FOWLs—Neglecting 2,
RAT—Jnciting dogs to attack . . . 1
OEEENCES UNDER THE PROTECTION OF BIRDS ACT, 1954:
COnﬁning birds in small cages 4
Being ”in possession of recently taken birds 9
Killing 4
Shooting 1
Injuring 1
Taking 1
Using decoy bir 1
Setting spring traps 3
Using bird lime 1
VARIOUS OFEENCEs:
Infringements of the Slaughter of Animals
4 (Pigs) Act, 1953 3
Infringement of the Slaughter of Animals Act,
1954, 1
Causing in offences . . . . .. . . . . . . 2
TOTAL NUMBER OF CONVICTIONS... 79

_.

During APRIL, 1956, Magistrates, at the request of the
RSPCA, disqualiﬁed ELEVEN persons from owning a dog or hold—
ing a dog licence. Disqualiﬁcations were as follows:

ONE for six months; ONE for twelve months; TWO for two
years; ONE for three years; FOUR for ﬁve years; ONE for thirty
years; ONE for Life.

In April, 1956, one person was disqualiﬁed under the Protec—
tion of Animals (Amendment) Act, 1954:

Disqualiﬁed for ﬁve years from keeping pigs.

COMPLAINTS . 28,128
CONVICTIONS . .. . . . 1,052
CAUTIONS 9,834

Total number of CONVICTIONS from January Ist 280

Total number of CAUTIONS from January Ist .. 3,149
HEADQUARTERS CLINICS
N o. of animals handled:
Cats, 3,842 Dogs, 3,920 Misc., 821 Total, 8,583

No. of animals given emergency ﬁrst—aid: 2,095

PIITNEY CONVALESCENT WARD

No. of animals handled:

Cats, 25 Dogs, 67 Total, 92

NIGHT STAFF
No. of calls received: 1,364

No. of animals given emergency ﬁrstvaid: 2

No. of animals treated by Veterinary Surgeon: 205

No. of animals rescued: 10

No. of complaints: 12

Miles covered by ambulance in respect of urgent calls: 1,995

NORTH WALES UNIT

First Aid Cases:

Cats, 14 Dogs, 28 Misc., 3 Total, 45
No. of animals handled by Unit:

Cats, 154 Dogs, 64 Total, 218
No. of miles covered by Unit: 2,260

DEVON & CORNWALL uNIT
First Aid Cases:

Cats, 38 Dogs, 38 Misc., 3 Total, 79
No. of animals handled by Unit:
Cats, 44 Dogs, 18 Total, 62

No. of miles covered by Unit: 887

AWARDS

Recommendations considered 56
Silver Medals: ..
Bar to Silver
Bronze Medals
Bar to Bronze

Certiﬁcates of Merit 2

RECORDS FOR 1955
INSPECTION

.{xI—IUJI—AUJ

COMPLAINTS
CONVICTIONS
CAUTIONS

' HEADQUARTERS CLINICS

No. of animals handled: 148,963

‘ NIGHT STAFF

28,128
1,052 ,
9,843 ,

No. of calls: 18,545

 

 

 




 

 

 

'64 THEANIMAL WORLD

June 1956

 

 

PARLIAMENTARY NEWS

Three Members of Parliament tabled an InstruCa
tion to the Committee of clause 153 of the Leeds
Corporation Bill. Their action had the support
of the RSPCA; the clause was defeated.

It would have prohibited anyone from bringing
into any slaughterhouse in the City of Leeds any
calf less than seven days old.

Whilst the RSPCA agrees with the princi-
ple that calves under seven days old should
not be taken to a slaughterhouse; it feels that
such a prohibition might cause calves of this
tender age to be sent to markets.

Questions

Myxomatosis featured in a Question from Sir

J. Lucas, who asked whether the Minister of
Agriculture, Fisheries and Food had considered
the recommendation of the Advisory Committee
on Myxomatosis that, in the event of the present
virus becoming less virulent, it might be more
humane to introduce in selected areas a more
virulent strain of the disease to exterminate raba
bits altogether; and whether he would give an
assurance that he would refrain from taking
action in the light of that recommendation.

The answer was that the committee made no
such recommendation, and the second part of
the Question did not arise.

The comment of the Committee was: ‘At
this stage in the development of the disease
we prefer to reserve judgment on this sugv
gestion. Effect could not be given to it without
express statutory sanction’.

Note: The artiﬁcial spreading of myxomatosis is
forbidden under the Pests Act, 1954.

Italian Films

MR BENN asked the President of the Board of
Trade if he would refuse to grant import licences
for the Italian ﬁlms, Maggia Verde and Principessa
di Canaria, which contain scenes depicting
cruelty to animals which were especially shot for
this purpose.

MR P. THORNEYCROFT: The import of cinev
matograph ﬁlms is on open general lience from
Italy. But in any case it is not the policy of Her
Majesty’s Government to use import restriction
powers for censorship purposes. The Cinematoa
graph Films(Animals) Act, 1937, however, makes
it an offence to exhibit any ﬁlm if the preparation
of the scenes represented in it involves cruelty to
animals. _

MR BENN: Is the right hon Gentleman aware
that in one of these ﬁlms a horse with a dummy
rider on its back was driven over some cliffs and

killed when it fell 200 feet on to rocks, and that .

the director of the ﬁlm was later ﬁned in the

Italian courts for cruelty? Can some action be
taken to prevent that being shown in this country?

MR THORNEYCROFT: It would not be for me,
under my import licensing powers, to deal with
that, but under the Cinematograph Films (Am,
mals) Act action could be taken. Questions on
the administration of that Act are matters for the
Home Secretary.

Slaughtering Regulations

MR CHAPMAN asked the Minister of Agriculture,
Fisheries and Food how many- prosecutions have
been instituted by his Department for alleged
contravention of the Slaughter of Animals (Prev
vention of Cruelty) Regulations, 1954.

MR AMORY: None.

MR CHAPMAN asked the Minister of Agri—
culture, Fisheries and Food whether he will now
announce changes in the Slaughter of Animals
(Prevention of Cruelty) Regulations, 1954, so as
to vary the powers of enforcement in cases where
local authorities are owners of the slaughter-
houses.

MR AMORY: No. I am satisﬁed that the duty of
ensuring that these Regulations are observed in
the case of slaughterhouses owned by local
authorities ought to remain with those authorities.

MRS WHITE asked the Minister of Agriculture,
Fisheries and Food what has been the outcome of
the representations made to him by the Royal
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals*
and others concerning the transit, marketing and
slaughtering of newlyrborn calves.

MR AMORY: There is already legislation to
prevent unnecessary suffering to animals at all
times, and detailed Regulations have been made
to control their transit and slaughter. These are
enforceable by local authorities and the police,
who are aware of the need for vigilance in the
matter.

In the case of young calves it is preferable that
they should be slaughtered under proper control
in licensed slaughterhouses, since slaughtering
animals in a humane manner is a highly skilled
and specialized trade.

* The recent article in Animal World will be
recalled. ’

 

OBITUARY

With sincere regret we report these deaths: Mrs
H. Wright, hon sec, Ulley Auxiliary; Mrs I. C.
Bland, hon sec, Colsterworth Auxiliary; Mrs D.
Movce, hon sec, Keston Auxiliary; Dr A. H. B.
Kirkman, former member of RSPCA Council;
and these supporters: Miss Grace Evans, Miss F.

HarridgevCayless, Alderman]. C. B. Olsen, Mrs
Phyllis Daniels.

 

 

 




 

66 THEANIMALWORLD

June 1956

 

 

 

‘TlNY’ FOlLS ATTEMPT AT DROWNlNG HER

 

‘Tiny’, a l 2-months-old black spaniel bitch, had been placed in a sack with her front paws tied together and thrown into
the River Mersey. She struggled free and was found on the river bank ten and a half hours later.

This was revealed at Warrington Borough Magistrates Court when a man pleaded guilty to a charge of cruelly ill-treating
the dog, and the woman who owned the animal pleaded not guilty to aiding and abetting him.

The woman wanted to get rid of ‘Tiny’ and asked the man to have it destroyed. The man said he would not take it to the
Corporation yard for destruction but would drown it in the River Mersey. He tied ‘Tiny’s’ paws together with string, put
her in a sack, secured the top and threw the sack into the River Mersey.

Ten and a half hours later a farmer saw the dog under some bushes near the water’s edge. He noticed that the front paws
.were tied together and the animal was very distressed. He told RSPCA lnspector Taylor, who went and rescued the dog.
The lnspector removed the string and is seen in the picture, which is reproduced by courtesy of the ‘Warrington Examiner’,

showing it to ‘Tiny’.

The second picture shows ‘Tiny’ at the Inspector’s home where she is now a firm favourite.
The man and woman were both fined £5 and were ordered to share costs amounting to £2 l2s. The woman was also fined

H for keeping the dog without a licence. (A.9856.)

 

PUPPY’S TAIL DOCKED WITH SHEARS

Three inches of a ten’weekvold puppy’s tail had
been cut off with a pair of electrician’s shears,
Birmingham Magistrates were told when two
men were each ﬁned £15.

A solicitor prosecuting for the RSPCA des—
cribed the operation as ‘primitive’. It was perv
formed without proper surgical instruments or
anaesthetic.

The owner of the puppy was found guilty of
unlawfully permitting the animal to be subjected
to the operation, performed without due care
and humanity.

When RSPCA lnspector Edwards saw the
owner of the dog he had said: ‘There is nothing
wrong with having it done is there?’ _ ‘

‘1919" Custom
A veterinary surgeon who examined the dog-had

found that its tail was septic and required treat;
ment. His opinion was that unnecessary suffering
had been caused.

When the man who performed the operation
was seen he had made a statement saying: ‘I didn’t
know I was doing anything wrong. It is the first
time I have ever done it. I saw them doing it in
the old Market Hall in 1919 and I thought I could

do it. I shall never do it again.’ i

The chairman of the magistrates told both
men: ‘We take a very serious View of this
case. The RSPCA is to be congratulated in
bringing this case. It may well. have some

effect in stopping thistype of cruelty." '

. He ﬁned both men £15; The. owner Waso'rdered.
to pay £5 costs and the. man who performed
the operation £3 “185. 6d. costs. (B.607.) '




 

 

 

 

68_ ' THE ANIMAL WORLD

June 1956

 

DOG BLUDGEONED
TO DEATH

A man and his wife were both banned from
'keeping a dog for life at Wellingborough
Magistrates Court. The Bench was told that
the man bludgeoned a greyhound dog to death
with a horse-hame (a heavy piece of wood
2ft. 9in. long, with a heavy chain attached).

He pleaded guilty to causing unnecessary
suffering to the greyhound dog by improperly
killing it, and also to a second summons of causing
unnecessary suffering to the greyhound dog and a
brindle lurcher bitch by omitting to give them
proper care and attention when they were in
a suffering state.

He was ﬁned a total of £25.

Wife Fined

His wife pleaded not guilty to causing the dogs
unnecessary suffering by omitting to give them
proper care and attention when they were in a
suffering state.

She was found guilty and also ﬁned £10.

When the Magistrates announced their decision
the defendant pulled a wallet from his pocket and
said he would pay the ﬁnes immediately.

Prosecuting for the RSPCA the solicitor deSa
cribed the death of the dog as ‘an appalling case
of brutality and cruelty’.

The solicitor, said Inspector A. Daniels, saw
the greyhound dog and the lurcher bitch conﬁned
in a makeshift compound made of bed irons and
springs. Both dogs were in a poor condition.
Both animals had skin diseases.

Train Oil

Inspector Daniels saw the woman defendant,
who was nearby, and she said: ‘I will feed them.
I always get something for them. I am going to
get some train oil and brimstone to rub on them.’

The next day, in a spinney, two police officers
saw a patch of dried blood. They followed a
trail of blood into the bushes, and after about
thirty yards came across another large patch and
signs of a struggle. The trail led to a greyhound
lying dead.

“It was quite plain that the unfortunate animal
had been struck one or more blows, and had
- struggled on for twenty yards and had then again
been bludgeoned by some instrument, and
struggled on for another thirty yards, where it
was beaten to death, said the solicitor.

Dried Blood

Showin' the hame to the Magistrates, he said
one en had an eye bolt, to which was ﬁxed a
short chain. There was dried blood on the hame.

A police sergeant saw the defendant the same
day and asked him why he had killed the dog.

He replied: ‘I could not get him out of the ﬁeld
because he was wild.’

Asked how he had killed the dog, he admitted
hitting it with a horse hame.

In reply to questions by the police sergeant,
the defendant said he did not kill it ﬁrst hit. He
hit it four or ﬁve times.

The solicitor said that later the same day a
post—mortem examination was carried out by a
veterinary surgeon, who found 27 separate
puncture wounds in the dog’s head. (B792)

KITTEN LEFT IN EMPTY
HOUSE

Unnecessary suffering was caused to a three—
monthsvold kitten by a man and his wife, it was
alleged at the Rotherham West Riding Magistrates’
Court, when ﬁnes and costs totalling £23 33.
were imposed on them.

Evidence alleged that the kitten was left locked
in a house for several days without food or water,
and when it was examined by Chief Inspector N.
Young, of the RSPCA at Rotherham, it was
emaciated and exceedingly hungry, and had to be
destroyed.

Accused were a miner and his wife. On giving

up the tenancy of a house without letting the
owners know, apparently they locked up the
house and left inside the kitten, who was about
three months old, without food or water.
_ Two employees of the owners’ Visited the house
four days later and found it completely empty
although the defendant’s tenancy was still
operative.

Emaciated and Hungry

Entering the building through a window,

the employees of the owners’ discovered the
kitten, which was emaciated and exceedingly
hungry. The animal was taken into the backyard,
and neighbours fed it.

The male defendant admitted leaving the house
four days previously, and to the RSPCA Inspector
his attitude was both very overbearing and
indifferent to the sufferings of the kitten.

Accused were apparently just as indifferent
to the summonses they had received.

‘ Shocking Condition
Chief Inspector N. Young, of the RSPCA, said

the kitten was emaciated and in a shocking condiv
tion. He gave it a humane end.
Each of the defendants was ﬁned £10 and

ordered to pay an advocate’s fee of £3 35. be»
tween them. (B.723.)

 

Help on Saturday, June 2nd
London Joint Animal Flag Day

‘w- <

 




 

7O . THEANIMALWORLD

June 1956

 

PERFORMING ANIMALS

In welcoming the news that Torquay Town
\Council has resolved by 20 votes to 4 that
circus performances held on corporation
lands shall contain only those animal acts
acceptable to the Corporation, the RSPCA
recognizes that the working of this reform
must be carefully watched. '

A sympathetic Council can ban the more
offensive of performing animals turns, but if the
feelings of the Council should change the worst of
turns may be passed and thereupon be advertised
as ‘with the approval of the Town Council’.

Genuine Reform

The RSPCA is aware that the Council, as con—
stituted, is genuine in its opposition to the train;
ing and exhibition of performing animal turns.
Alderman Edward Narracott, prime mover for
the reform, has long advocated some regulation.

In supporting the Council motion, he said:
“Surely you can appreciate entertainment on a
higher sphere’. He was against the sort of act
where the lion was made to jump through a hoop
of ﬁre, in which elephants were made to ride
Jeeps, sitting upright and wearing straw hats with
a feather on top, where bears rode bicycles.

Councillor March said he would like to see
animal acts banned altogether. Councillor Stonea
ham foresaw the time when animal acts would be
wiped out everywhere. Alderman Lake had seen
something happen eight or ten years ago which
had almost made him physically sick, and he had
not been to a circus since. He did not think
Alderman Narracott’s motion went far enough.

Councillor Joseph thought the move would
be a polite way of keeping circuses away from

 

Photo by courtesy of The Northern Echo]

Torquay, as he did not feel circus men would
be dictated to.

The RSPCA welcomes this reform since it
represents a practical step towards the sup;
pression of performing animal turns.

 

 

 

New Films

Two new ﬁlms have been made available for
general issue and copies in 35 mm. Sound for use
in cinema theatres and in 16 mm. Sound to show
at branch meetings, schools, etc., may be bor—
rowed, without charge, upon application to the
Chief Secretary, RSPCA, 105 Jermyn Street,
London, SW1.

The Good Work is a most appealing story
of many interesting aspects of the work of the
RSPCA and its Inspectors. This is an excellent
ﬁlm to promote local interest in the Society,
particularly when collections are being made.

Diary of a Dog, running time approximately
twelve minutes, shows the needs of a humble but
well—kept dog, as seen from the animal’s point of
View.

RPSCA ﬁlms were sent to the following places for showing
recently:— ,

Machynlleth, Trecwn, Brighton, Huntingdon, Goodwick,
Ryde, East Dulwich, Portsmouth, .Sunbury-on—Thames,
Hunstanton, Mirehouse, Gateshead, Frodsham, Swansea,
Leamington Spa, East Dean, Trowbridge, Greenford,
Harold Wood, Aylesbury, Bournemouth, Eastbourne, St
Helens, Penmaenmawr, Maidstone, Falmouth, Middles—
brough, Langwith Junction, East Grinstead, Llandrindod
Wells, Kirkby Stephen, Haverfordwest, Littlehampton,
Boscastle, Plymouth, Wimbledon, Stockton'on-Tees, Hast-
ings, Port Talbot, Peasenhall, Highams Park, Instow,
Whitechapel, N. Hammersmith, New Cross, BarrOWoin—
Fumess, Canterbury, Saffron Walden, London Docks,
Bury, Attleborough, Sittingbourne, Derby, Hollingwood,
Stroud, Chelsham.

GROUP 14 CONFERENCE
Alderman A. J. Alsop, Group

Representative on the Council, pre’
sided at the Group Conference in
Newcastle on Tyne. Delegates at
tended from branches and auxiliarv
ies in the area and the Chief Secrer
tary was present.

Mrs Mungo Campbell (right), President of
Newcastle Branch, with the Mayor of
Gateshead' (Alderman F. Pattison), talking
to delegates from Durham, Burlington
and Tees-side, at the Group Conference.
inset: Alderman Alsop

 

 

 




 

-n THEANIMALWWNUJ)

June 1956

 

 

 

Miss Sheila Smith is seen receiving the Silver Challenge Cup
for her dog ‘Mitzi’ from Mr jack Lenton, President of
Nuneaton Auxiliary, at the Nuneaton Animal Defenders’
4th Annual Dog Show. Miss Kathleen Wright, show organi-
zer and Leader of Nuneaton Animal Defender Group, is
seen next to Sheila Smith. The fourth person in the picture
is Miss Betty Clay, judge.

North Tees Division Miss E. E. Brown, president, took
the chair at the Division annual meeting and Mr J. Spark,
a prominent local ﬁgure, spoke. Films were shown after the
meeting through the kindness of Police Supt C. W. Ritchie,
chairman.

Pembrokeshire Brigadier Pim took the chair at the branch
annual meeting held at St Davids. Capt A. S. Mathias pre-
sented RSPCA medals to Police Sergt R. W. Jones (silver),
Police Constable P. J. Evans (bronze), and a certiﬁcate to
HM Coastguards. Mr A. F. Boucher, branch hon sec, spoke.
A programme of ﬁlms was shown and a collection of
£4 SS. 6d. was taken.

Shropshire Councillor Mrs C. E. Thickpenny, chairman of
Shrewsbury auxiliary, presented an RSPCA bronze medal
and certiﬁcate to Mr Peter Edwards and a certiﬁcate to
Inspector Warr for their courage in rescuing animals in
distress. The presentation took place at the Shirehall,
Shrewsbury.

Sittingbourne Division Sittingboume, jumble sale, Mrs
Draper, Div hon sec, and committee, £17 8s. 6d.

Southport, Birkdale and District The Mayor of Southport
presided at the branch annual meeting and Mr D. A. L.
Camm, assistant secretary from Headquarters, addressed

the meeting.

The Essay Competition prié'egiving was held in the Little
Theatre foyer, the Mayoress presenting the prizes. Mr.
G.E.C. Eddowes, branch chairman, was present.
Staﬂ'ordshire—North Lady Bagot, branch president, pre-
sided at the branch annual meeting held at the Castle Hotel,
Newcastle, and made a presentation to Juliet Booking for her
courage and humanity in rescuing a puppy from a canal.
Mr. D. A. L. Camm spoke. ‘

Burslem, coffee morning and bring and buy, £34 16s.

Spode, whist drive, staff of Messrs W. T. Copeland Ltd.,
£14 163. 8d.

*
Leek, jumble sale, Mrs Worthington, aux hon sec,
£59 Os. 9d. ‘
Stockport, East Cheshire and West Derbyshire Branch
Heaton Chapel, concert, Mrs McFarlane, aux hon sec, £9 10.9.

Heaton Chapel, carol singing (Christmas), Mrs Macfar-
lane, £33 103.

 

Stockport, whist drives, Mrs Parker, £22 14s.

Streatham, Brixton and Clapham This branch recently
purchased a pony, ‘Jumbo’ which had been drawing a green-
grocer’s cart in Clapham for some years. The owner, Mr J.
Jones, was obliged to give up work and was anxious about
Jumbo’s future. The local branch was very glad to be able
to set his mind at rest by buying the pony, and ﬁnding a very
good home for him in Somerset with Mrs Barkway, sister-
in-law of Mrs Marshall, the aux sec for Streatham Hill. He
travelled in a most comfortable and roomy ambulance
accompanied by two Inspectors, and was seen off by his
former owner and Mrs Jones, and several of the branch
Surrey—Kingston, Surbiton, District and South Middlesex
Surbiton, whist drives, Mrs Petley and Mrs Mitchell, latter
being aux hon sec, £46 23.

*

1Thames Ditton, whist drives, Mrs Tilley, aux co hon sec,
£ 0. '
Torquay and South-East Devon Torquay, whist drive, Mrs
Leslie, £16 2s.
Vale of Mowbray The ViscOuntess Swinton, branch presi-
dent and Chairman, presided at the branch annual meeting
held in the Zion Schoolroom, Northallerton. Miss V. A.
Jackson, branch- hon sec, Mr J. Tweedie, branch hon treas,
and R/Supt Meara presented their reports. Mr Roland
Ampleford from Headquarters spoke. Tea was served by
Mrs Strother, Northallerton aux hon sec, after the meeting.
A collection of £3 12s. 6d. was taken.
Wakeﬁeld and District The prizes in the Mirﬁeld auxiliary
essay competition were presented by Miss E. Thornton,
Eux president. The competition was organized by Mrs S. W.

vans.
Wiltshire—Salisbury and District The Countess of Radnor,
branch president, presided at the branch annual meeting.
Wing-Commander Hillier spoke.
Windsor, Eton, Slough, Staines and Uxbridge Slough, play,
The Company of Eight, £10 10s. '
Worcestershire—East, and West Warwickshire Rubery,
concert, Mrs Hall, aux hon sec, and committee, £6 9s.

Droitwich, jumble sale, Mrs Duguid, aux hon sec, and
committee, £15 9s.
Yorkshire—Bridlington, Malton and District The branch
annual general meeting was held at the Brantwood Hotel,
Bridlington, and the chair was taken by Dr W. O. C. J arratt,
branch president. The reports of Mrs Gray, branch hon sec,
and Mr J. T. Green, branch hon treas, were read.
Yorkshire—York and District Elvington, Methodist Young
People’s Guild, talk, Mrs W. S. Featherston, £1 4s. 6d.
(collection).

 

Photo by courtesy of Mrs. E. Wall, honorary secretary for Wickford Auxiliary.

Group taken at dance organized in West Hanningﬂeld by
Mrs B. Walter (second left), who raised £8 for Branch funds

 

 

 




 

 

 

R.S.P.C.A_9

 

 

FORM OF BEQUEST FOR NATIONAL WORK

To those benevolent individuals who may wish to become benefactors by Will to this
Society, the following form is respectfully suggested:—

‘I bequeath to the ROYAL SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS, founded
1824, for the general purposes of that Society, the sum of £ .......................................... , free
of death duty and the receipt of the Treasurer for the time being of the said Society shall
be suﬁlcient discharge for such legacy.’ (If it should be desired that the legacy should be ex

pended on some particular phase of the Society’s work, a direction to this eﬂect may be added to the

form of bequest.)

 

NOTE ,
By the Act of William IV and I Victoria, cap. 26, all Wills or Codicils must be in Writing signed by the

Testator, and attested by two witnesses in the presence of the Testator and of each other.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

@MEF“M§

HOBSON & SONS CAPS HELMETS LEATIIER

Manufacturers of

UNIFORM CLOTHING

(LONDON) LTD BELTS POUCHES etc. etc

Gold and Silver Laces
Embroideries of every

All inquiries to ' d€SCIIpti0n for ALL
154-164 TOOLEY STREET UNIFORMED SERVICES

LONDON BRIDGE S.E.1 PATTERNS OF CLOTH
and ESTIMATES

Telephone: HOP 2476 (4 lines) will be forwarded free of charge
Telegrams: HOBSON, BOROH, LONDON

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Printed by Shenval Press, Simson Shand Ltd, London, Hertford and Harlow, and
published by Arthur W. Moss for the RSPCA at 105 Jermyn Street, London, SW1

 




