 

 

 

 

 

Butch, pet of Mrs Lewis, a founder member of the RSPCA
in Port Talbot. Mrs Lewis was one of the ﬁrst eighteen
people to meet at 29 Connaught Street. Mrs Lewis gives
help to the veterinary surgeon during Clinic sessions

RSPCA FILM NEWS
The Society's films were sent to the following places for
showing recently: Burnham, Saxmundham, Adeyfield,
Chard, West Bergholt, Heaton Moor, Battersea, Waven—
don, Purley, West Hartlepool, Chesterﬁeld, Newark,
Wooler, Burton Joyce, Lincoln, Seaford, Barrow—inv
Furness, Frodsham, North Kensington, Hextable, Forest
Gate, Wrotham, Chipstead, Birkdale, Fyﬁeld, Gateshead,
Hindhead, \Whitchurch, Swaythling, Dearham, Mable—
thorpe, Taibach, Sutton—on—Sea, Tavistock, Stratford—on—
Avon, Hereford, Newport, Longbenton, Tooting, Brain—
tree, Wrekenton, Sible Hedingham, Southport, North—
ampton, Colchester, Guildford, Lymington, Blyth,
Ellesmere, Bexleyheath, Liverpool, Brighton, Manningtree,
Chorley, Hastings, Darlington, Thorndon, Woking,
Maidstone, Bridgend, Minehead, Chatham, Bexhill’oanea,
Wadhurst, Brentford, Wisbech, Crofton Park, Louth,
Bilston, Canvey Island, Alford, Thrapston.

HOUSE—TO—HOUSE COLLECTIONS

(We give, wherever possible, the place at which the house—to—
house collection was made, and the name of the organizer .or
organizers.)

Hants and Surrey Border Branch, Colonel R. M. Powell
(branch hon secretary and Vice-President of the R.S.P.C.A. ),
£487 35. 8d.; Haywards Heath, Mrs Nelson, £8 18s. 661.;
Gloucester Mid, Mrs Grigg, £10 75. 6d.; Buckinghamshire
Branch, Mrs Siggs (Haversham Auxiliary hon secretary), £6
(sum collected in Uley and Owlpen); Nottingham and
Notts, Mrs Aldred (Newark), £13 ls. 9%d.

 

 

FLAG DAY EQUIPMENT

Provincial Organizers are asked to be good
enough to return flag day materials as soon as
possible after the date of the collection, to
the British Legion Poppy Factory, Petersham
Road, Richmond, Surrey, at the same time
informing Headquarters of the approximate
number of emblems used—an approximate
figure is all that is required. The prompt re»
turn of equipment greatly facilitates the re—
labelling of tins, etc., for future collections
in other parts of the country.

Organizers are reminded that orders for
ﬂag day equipment should be submitted to
Headquarters at least FOUR weeks before the
date of the collection.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

l NO FLAG DAY?

Never mind—Try this!

Branches unable, for any reason,
to organize a Flag Day are reminded
that a

HOUSE TO HOUSE COLLECTION

is an excellent alternative

Write for details to:
Chief Secretary, RSPCA, 105 Jermyn Street, London, SW1

 

 

 

 

FLAG DAY
GOODS

Celluloid Buttons i

LIST ON APPLICATION

THE UNIVERSAL BUTTON CO. LTD.
1-9 Birkbeck Street, Bethnal Green, LONDON, E.2
‘ Telephone: BIShopsgate 5750

 

Telegrams: ‘Unibutco Edo’

 

 

 

 

 

 

TEMPLE COX CAPTIVE

BOLT SLAUGHTERING
GUNS

Specially recommended and used by the RSPCA

THREE MODELS—ALL SILENT IN
ACTION

‘UNIVERSAL’ for all animals
‘SMALLS’ for all small animals
‘MARK 6’ for all animals. Designed for heavy

use in large Abattoirs and Freezing Works

TEMPLE COX DEVELOPMENT CO. LTD
HIGH STREET, BROMLEY, KENT

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




May 1954

THE ANIMAL WORLD 51

 

THE RSPCA AT WORK

" MARCH 1954

I

RSPCA INSPECTORS

2,409 Complaints of cruelty investigated.
1 Oﬁender imprisoned.
77 Oﬁenders ﬁned.
36 Persons guilty of minor acts of cruelty cautioned in writing.
869 Registered cautions were administered by Inspectors.

CLASSIFICATION OF CONVICTIONS

HORSES—Neglecting
CATTLE~Neglecting, travelling unﬁt
PIGS—Neglecting

NNUl-Ik

COATS—Neglecting . . . . . .
DOGS—Neglecting, shooting and wounding, beating to

death 24

CATS—Neglecting, killing in improper manner, kicking,
scalding, etc.

RABBITS—Improperly coursing, beating
BOWLS—Neglecting, conveying in improper manner
DUCKS—Neglecting ‘
SWAN—Shooting and wounding

v—INWWCD

OFFENCES UNDER THE PROTECTION OF BIRDS ACT, 1925:
Conﬁning birds in small cages. " 1

OFFENCES UNDER THE PROTECTION OF BIRDS ACT, 1933:

Offering for sale other than a close-ringed
specimen bred in captivity .. 6

Selling other than a close ringed specimen bred in
captivity 2

OFFENCES UNDER THE WILD BIRDS PROTECTION ACTS:
Being in possession of recently taken birds
Shooting

HON

VARIOUS OFFBNCES: _
Steebtooth traps—set in open .
. Permitting in an oﬁence
Causing in an offence
Aiding and abetting in an offence

v—tI-dr—tm

TOTAL NUMBER OF CONVICTIONS 78

—

During MARCH, 1954,. Magistrates, at the request of the
RSPCA, disqualiﬁed FOURTEEN persons from owning a dog or
holding a dog licence. Disqualiﬁcations were as follows:

ONE for THREE years; SIX for FIVE years; THREE for TEN years;
ONE for TWENTY-FIVE years; THREE for LIFE.

HEADQUARTERS CLINICS

No. of animals handled:
Cats, 4,735 Dogs, 4,019 Misc., 410
No. of animals given emergency ﬁrst—aid: 1,866

Total, 9,164

PUTNEY CONVALESCENT WARD
No. of animals handled:
Cats, 17 Dogs, 81

Misc., 1 Total, 99

NIGHT STAFF

No. of calls received: 1,418

Miles covered by ambulance in respect of urgent calls: 1,536
N o. of animals rescued: 2

No. of cases treated by veterinary surgeon: 240

NORTH WALES UNIT

First—aid cases:

Cats, 25 Dogs, 48 Misc., 1 Total, 74
No. of other animals handled by Unit:
Cats, 89 Dogs, 54 Misc., 1 Total, 144

No. of miles covered by Unit during month: 2,110

AWARDS

Rescue Awards Considered 66
Bronze Medals ..

Bar to Bronze Medals

Silver Medals
Certiﬁcates of Merit 2
Margaret Wheatley Cross

t—H—th—t-q

RECORDS FOR 1953

COMPLAINTS 27,686
CONVICTIONS 864
CAUTIONS 10,142

HEADQUARTERS CLINICS
No. of animals handled: 155,236

NIGHT STAFF
No. of calls: 20,440

NORTH WALES UNIT
No. of animals handled: 2,797

AWARDS
Margaret Wheatley Cross 1
Silver Medals 6
Bars to Silver Medals . 2
Bronze Medals 58
Bars to Bronze Medals 10

Merit Certiﬁcate '. . . . . . 12 1

 




 

 

May 1954

 

The man pleaded not guilty; his wife was not
present.

Inspector Watt said he saw a dead rabbit in
an emaciated condition in an oil drum in a
chicken house, which the couple had left
two days previously. The Inspector said that,
when told that a veterinary surgeon considered
the rabbit had died from starvation, the defen«
dant said he could not understand that because it
had the run of the garden.

A police constable said: ‘The rabbit was
nothing but skin and bone.’

The defendant, present in the court, said that
the rabbit did not die of starvation and that he
killed it himself.

He and his wife were each ﬁned £1, with
£3 33. costs each. (A. 7614.)

[Picture by courtesy of the Yorkshire Evening News

‘GOOD-BYE!’

Miners at Monk Bretton Colliery, Barns-l
Iey, take leave of twelve-year-old pit
pony ‘Prince’ who is leaving the mines
for a new life. ‘Prince’ lost an eye after
a surgical operation underground fol-
lowing an accident. He has been placed,
by the RSPCA, in the home of a good
friend of horses in Sissinghurst, Kent.
The latest report is that ‘Prince’, living
up to his regal name, is lording it over
the rest of the horses and ponies at this
good home

EXPORT OF HORSES

The last quarterly statement received from the
Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries is given

below :——— .
October to December 1953
Switz Total
Port of Bel Den Nor H01 Ger
Shipment gium France mark 1 arli d way land many

London incl.

Tilbury . . . 9 6 -—— —- 4 .—- - 19
Folkestone —— 67 —— 2 —- —-—— — 69
Goole . . . —- ———- _— _ — __ _ _
Harwich . . . 3 -——~ 13 — —- 1 1 — 27
Leith . . . —— —— —— _. .— __. _ __
Hull . . . —- —— —— — —- —— 2 2

 

Total shipped
afterexam. 12 73 13 Z 4 11 2117

 

THE ANIMAL WORLD _ 57

REMEMBERED FOR LIFE

After the school had heard a little talk from one
of the school lecturers the Headmistress said to
the assembled scholars: ‘Now children, you have

heard something today which I know you will

remember not for months or even years but for
all your lives.’

Since the last report 175 lectures were given
in schools in Monmouthshire, Lancashire, Yorke
shire, Wiltshire, Surrey, Devon, Oxford, Horsham
and the London area. Two Youth Clubs in the
London 'area and the Reigate Animal Defender
Group were also addressed.

Fiftyanine new Animal Defender Groups were
formed; 341 children joined the Headquarters
Group. .

 

A VILE APPLIANCE

From News and Times, Worcester:—

Sir: I wish to refer to an incident which affected
my household during the past weekend and
which has ﬁlled me with prolonged disgust and
bitter feelings against the perpetrators. My pet
Persian male cat had the cruel misfortune to
have its jaw smashed in one of the vilest of manv
made-‘2 appliances—a ginrtrap. For many years
I shall remember the tortured look in the eyes of
that cat and I venture to say that many of those
who prepared these hideous traps would, no
doubt, personally abolish them if they could see
the immediate resulting death throes of their
victims or be aware of the terrible maiming these
helpless creatures receive.

ROGER JONES

 




 

 

 

May 1954

THE ANIMAL WORLD 53

 

 

rescued one from a water cooling tower at Camp;
bell Street, Walkden, Lancashire and Station
Ofﬁcer J. Webb, who rescued one from a tree at
Roundway Hospital, Devizes.

Dogs Rescued

Bravery displayed in the rescue of dogs has
gained the RSPCA bronze medal and citation
certiﬁcate for Inspector Wood, and for Police
Constable J. G. Johnson, Leading Fireman J.
Lavers, and Mr W. H. Ruffell.

Mr W. Joint, who rescued a puppy from a dis,
used shaft at Buckfastleigh, Devon, has received a
bar to the RSPCA bronze medal he already holds.

OBITUARY

With sincere regret we report the following
deaths: Miss B. Langton, hon sec of Dedham
auxiliary for many years; Mr D. D. James, former
chairman of Sussex—East and Hastings Branch
and Bexhill Auxiliary; Miss M. Fulcher, hon sec
of Hertford Heath Auxiliary; Mr E. C. Richard,
son, chairman of Woking, Surrey, Branch; Mr
J. T. Vaughan, husband of the hon sec of Merthyr
Tydﬁl Branch; Dr Charles Visger, chairman of
Clevedon Division; Brigadier C. A. Murray,
Member of the RSPCA Council; Mr J. Allison
Webb, a supporter; Mrs Scaife, Atherstone
Auxiliary co hon secretary.

 

MAN THREW DOG IN QUARRY—
GAOLED

Inspector Saved ‘Lassie’

When a man was prosecuted at Mansﬁeld by the.

RSPCA for causing unnecessary suffering to a
dog by attempting to destroy the animal in an
improper manner, a solicitor said that ‘Lassie’,
the dog, had been thrown into the water at the
bottom of a quarry.

‘Lassie’ was found in the quarry and nearby
was a rock weighing half—hundredweight, which
the defendant had fastened around her neck
with a chain before he threw her in.

‘Lassie’s’ whines were heard by a passervby,
who was out walking with his dog near the
quarry.

Inspector’s Rescue

With his torch, the passer—by made out
‘Lassie’s’ muzzle, all that was showing above the
water and mud. As he was unable to climb down,
he ran to the police station and returned with

_ a police inspector and RSPCA Inspector Harry

Moore.

The solicitor prosecuting for the RSPCA said:
‘Inspector Moore did not hesitate and was
lowered down the vertical side of the quarry to
the unknown depth of the mud below in which
‘ ‘Lassie” was still struggling and rescued her.’ The
dog was unable to stand, and it appeared to be
paralysed.

The defendant, traced to Birmingham, said:
‘I threw the dog in . . . I did not stop to see what
happened to it.’

Nobody Wanted Her

To the court the defendant said: ‘I did not intend
to do the dog any harm. I was turned out of the
house, and no one seemed to want her when'I
tried to give her away.

‘As regards causing her any harm, she hasn’t
feelings the same as us.’

 

[Photo by courtesy of the News of the World

Rescuer and rescued

Passing sentence, the chairman told the de—
fendant: ‘We are sorry we cannot punish you
any more.’ ’

A sentence of two months’ imprisonment was
inﬂicted, and the defendant was disqualiﬁed for
ten years from owning a dog or holding a dog
licence. (A.7954.)

TAILPIECE: ‘Lassie’ played happily at the back
of the court with Inspector Moore, the man who
rescued her.

‘Lassie’ has been placed by the RSPCA in a
good home with Mrs Pringle, of Epperstone,
Notts.

For his gallantry in performing this rescue,
Inspector Moore has received the RSPCA bronze
medal and citation certiﬁcate.

 




ROYAL SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS
Founded 1824 Headquarters: 105 Jermyn Street, London, S.W.1

PATRONS
HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN
HER MAJESTY QUEEN ELIZABETH, THE QUEEN MOTHER
HER ROYAL HIGHNESS PRINCESS ALICE COUNTESS OF ATHLONE
HER ROYAL HIGHNESS PRINCESS ARTHUR OF CONNAUGHT

VICE-PRESIDENTS
HER GRACE WlNlFRED DUCHESS OF PORTLAND

THE EARL OF SHAFTESBURY, KP, PC

SIR MALCOLM SARGENT, HON LLD, D MUS, FRCM, FRSA
COLONEL R. M. POWELL, Dso

THE COUNCIL (1952-1953)

Chairman: THE RT HON LORD MERTHYR, DL, JP
Vice-Chairman: *MRS WALLIS POWER, JP

 

AGIUS, THE REV DOM. AMBROSE, 088, MA
‘ALLIBERT, MRS
*ALSOP, ALDERMAN A. J., FCRA, PCIS, JP
BERTIE 0F THAME, THE RT HON THE VISCOUNTESS
BRANSOM, MISS L. G., ERSA
BYWATER, H. E., ESQ, MRCVS
*COOPER, ALDERMAN J. D., JP

GASKOIN, C. J. 3., ESQ., MA I POWELL, COL R. M., DSO
GREENWOOD, ANTHONY, ESQ, MA, MP RATTRAY, DR R. E.

*HARVEY, MRS J. w., MA *R‘ECK’ H- H" ESQ
L _ .
*HOCKIN, C. OWEN, ESQ S.lAFTESBURY, THE RT HON THE COUNTESS OF

‘ SIBLY, W. A., ESQ, MA, JP
HOGG, S. R., ESQ, DSO, MC

I * SNELL, THE REV PREBENDARY L. J. 13., MBE, JP
‘ HUNTER, ““55 SOMERS, THE RT HON LORD

DAWES, CAPTAIN H. w., CBE, MRCVs LEE, MRS . TAIT, MRS, BA
DORCHESTER, LT-COL THE RT HON LORD, OBE, JP LOCKWOOD, LT-COL J. C., JP, TD, MP L TERRINGTON, THE RT HON LORD, KBE, MA
‘DOWDELL’ MRS LONGMAN, MRS w. ; THOMAS, w. s. RUSSELL, ESQ

ESTCOURT-OSWALD, MISS AGNES, MB (LOND), DPH
(CANTAB), DOMS
*EVANS, MRS DAVID, BA
FREEMAN, PETER, ESQ, MP

TUFNELL, LIEUT-COMMANDER R. L., MA, RN
*WALPORD, MRS DESBOROUGH

*WHITE, HARRY, ESQ, FCA

*WINCHESTER, F. J., ESQ, FClS, FSS

MOORE, LT-COL SIR THOMAS, CBE, MP I
*PARKER, MAURICE G., ESQ, MISAC
POULETT, THE RT HON THE EARL

"‘ Denotes Branch Representative

OFFICE BEARERS APPOINTED BY THE COUNCIL

 

 

Hon Treasurer—LT-COL J. C. LOCKWOOD, JP, TD, MP
Deputy Hon Treasurer—HARRY WHITE, ESQ, FCA
Hon Medical Ofﬁcer—A. F. WHYTE, ESQ, MB, CHB
Bankers—MESSRS COUTTS AND co, STRAND, LONDON

Chief Secretary—ARTHUR w. MOSS, ESQ, MBE, ACIS

Assistant Secretary—D. A. L. CAMM, ESQ, BA

Legal Secretary—J. HALL, ESQ

Chief Veterinary Ofﬁcer—MAJOR R. c. G. HANCOCK, BSC, MRCVS

Auditors—MESSRS VlNEY, PRICE AND GOODYEAR, CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS

Telegrams—WHITEHALL 7177

USED &TRIISTEDTHE WORlD OVE '

     
  
  

 
   

"SIMPl
SAIL.
‘ sun: 72;.“an XE

CAPTIVE BOLT PISTOL
FOR ALL ANIMALS

BIRMINGHAM ~ 6 - ENGIAND
5465

ICCIIS Jill] SllflVOKE [ID

Telephone—Whiteh all 7177

 

 

 

 

ANIMAL WAYS
An ideal magazine for children

Pictures Stories Cartoons
Prize competition
Puzzles Nature articles

 

Published by the RSPCA. Price Id. per month.
A year’s postal subscription costs only 25. 6d.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

FLAG DAY EQUIPMENT

Organizers are asked to order supplies at
least FOUR weeks before the date of the
collection. This enables supplies to be care-
fully checked On arrival and gives ample time
to indent for additional equipment should
more collectors be available than originally
anticipated and/or if it is found insufficient
materials have arrived. Further, it enables
organizers to distribute tins, etc., to collectors
a few days before the date of the Flag Day——
always a useful procedure.

 

 

 

 




ANIMALTHEWORLD ‘

THE OFFICIAL MAGAZINE OF THE RSPCA

 

 

Vol XLIX No 5 New Series

MAY 1954.

PRICE THREEPENCE

4s. 6d. per annum. Post Paid

 

GREAT IS THE NEED—OVERSEAS!

 

It will already be known to readers that the
RSPCA takes a lively and practical interest in
animal welfare beyond the immediate sphere of
its activities in Great Britain. Photographs and
news from abroad form a regular feature of the
magazine, and the photograph that appears on
this page has been used before. At risk of repe—
tition, however, it again makes its appearance
because no other so far to hand is so symbolic
of the goal which the RSPCA strives to reach——
' the sympathetic and enlightened regard of the
owner for his animal. '

Some years before the first cWorld War, an
RSPCA Empire and Foreign Fund was established,
the purpose of which was to raise money in this
country to assist those societies abroad working
to improve the treatment of domestic and wild
animals, in many cases in the face of ignorance,
thoughtlessness, and racial and religious prejur
dice. Aid from that Fund (now known as the
RSPCA Overseas Fund), both financial and in
the form of material, has been rendered to soci—
eties and individuals in} a wide variety of places
throughout the world.

In 1947 the Council decided to extend the

activities of the RSPCA to places within the
British Commonwealth in addition to the assist,
ance referred to, and the ﬁrst RSPCA Overseas
Branch was established at Lagos, Nigeria. Since
then eight other Branches have been formed, in
Tanganyika (where a considerable number of
auxiliaries exist), Uganda, Mombasa, Penang,
Cyprus, British Guiana, Grenada (BWI) and
Singapore. These are an integral part of the
Society, and although, as in England and Wales,
local Committees control local work, Headv
quarters in London keeps a watchful eye on
activities and helps if required.

A system also operates whereby animal welfare
societiesf-in any part of the world may become
afﬁliated with the RSPCA. They are helped with
advice and material as and when necessary, and
if, due to limited supplies in any particular
direction, discrimination has to be made, they
receive preferential treatment—for instance in
the loan of ﬁlms and so forth. Thirty—eight
societies situated in widely separated countries
are at present so afﬁliated.

Following a request from the Imperial Ethi—
opian Embassy in London, an RSPCA Inspector
has entered into a two—year contract with the
Municipality of Addis Ababa, for the purpose of
establishing an animal protection society in the
city and developing animal welfare work else—
where in Ethiopia. Another ofﬁcial from the
Society’s London Headquarters is at present in
Singapore, where he is assisting in re—organiza‘
tion of the RSPCA Branch.

In the Eastern Province of Nigeria horses are
brutally slaughtered to conform with the rites
of native ceremonies, in Tanganyika wild animals
are caught and maimed in traps of barbaric
design, in Malaya unwanted puppies and kittens
are deliberately placed in the road where they
may be run over, as religion forbids the taking of
life, even when unavoidable. It will be clear that
the task undertaken is one beset with difﬁculty
and frustration. Added to the more usual set—
backs are racial and religious prejudices, super'
stition, apathy and ignorance, and the necessity
of overcoming a traditional suspicion of new

' ways and ideas. Nevertheless, in its efforts the

RSPCA will gain inspiration and encouragement
from photographs such as the one on this page.
F. G.




<Ummm NEH. m0 Z<0-C H<HOHmm0 HEB

5.5 stm
38,:

m cZ NHHN Eda?»

mh®w=®mm®z 19%.: 2—,!” wig-95.559:—

 




 

May 1954

THE ANIMAL WORLD 55

 

 

made by this Committee was that ‘as soon as
possible HM Government should seek the agree—
ment of the other .maritime countries to the

ﬁxing of a date after which discharge into the sea,

of .persistent oils by ships, of any country would
be prohibited’.

The Minister of Transport, answering a
Question in the House Commons in the same
year, said: ‘Following the issue of the recent
RepOrt of the Committee, which stressed the
urgent need to seek‘the co—operation of other
COuntries in preventing pollution of the seas,
I have decided to invite the principal maritime
Powers to attend a special conference as early
as possible next year.’

 

The'Pi‘ctures illustrating this article were made by George W. F. Ellis,
' T Bodmin

 

The sport of the tide, the oil-blackened guillemot, lying
dead among the foam, tells a harrowing story

 

 

RSPCA SINGAPORE

Photographed above is the new motor vehicle purchased
by the Singapore Branch of the RSPCA. It is fitted with
cages and can accommodate up to six medium size dogs,
with additional space for cat baskets. Seating arrange-
ments for three people are also provided. It will be noted
that the design is rather original and may be of interest
to other overseas branches, particularly in the tropics,
where a completely closed vehicle may have certain dis-
advantages. The Singapore Branch recently requested
Headquarters to assist in the provision of an organizer to
undertake certain rearrangement in branch affairs and
Mr L. Higgins, an official of one of the London Clinics,
flew to Singapore in October I953 for six months. All
expenses in connection with his visit are being met by
the Branch

A DISTINGUISHED OVERSEAS VISITOR

 

The bird patient at the Angeli Memorial Animal Hospital,
Boston, USA, is in the kind hands of Dr E. Hansen, Pre-

sident, Massachusetts SPCA. Dr Hansen is to be present
at the RSPCA Annual General Meeting in London in lune.
The picture was given to Mrs W. Longman, RSPCA Council
Member, when she visited the Angel! Memorial Animal

Hospital recently

 




 

 

 

ﬁ

 

May 1954

THE ANIMAL WORLD ‘ 59

 

 

Kent—Ashford and District At the annual general meeting,
Lady Ritchie, branch president, spoke about the new clinic
which Will be opened in Upper Denmark Road. She stressed
the good work done by the branch but said that the receipts
were slightly lower than in previous years.

Inspector Coles was thanked-for his good work. He re-
ported that there had been six convictions for serious
cruelty and ninety verbal cautions were given for slight
offences. He asked that when people moved to new homes
they would take their pets with them. He gave his thanks to
the police and other people who had helped to bring cruelty
to his notice.

Appreciation was expressed to Mr H. A. Crothall, branch
hon secretary, by Lady Ritchie, for his work given to the

branch. Unfortunately he was unable to attend owing to‘

illness.

Mr D. A. Camm, assistant secretary from Headquarters,
spoke on the RSPCA’s work for the protection of animals.
Kent—Canterbury and District Mrs Dance, branch hon
secretary, reports that a whist drive raised £4 1s. lld. for
branch funds.

A rummage sale organized by members of the branch
committee raised £25 for branch funds. .
Lancashire—North, and Borders At the annual general
meeting held at the Empire Cafe, Morecambe, Mr Joseph
Fawcett was presented with the RSPCA silver medal and a
citation for gallantry for saving twenty-nine pigs from a
blazing piggery. The Mayor of Morecambe, Councillor
E. Park, made the presentation.

Miss Shaw, branch hon secretary, read her, report, and
said that the general public had shown more interest in the
protection of animals during the past year.

Mr G. W. O. Ashworth, branch hon treasurer, reported
that an increase of £36 had been made over last year’s ﬁgure.

Senior Inspector Oxley stated that a conviction was
made in three instances.

Mr D. Camm, assistant secretary from Headquarters,
congratulated all members for their ﬁne work during the
past year in aid of the branch.

Lincolnshire Mid, and Lincoln Mr W. P. Hemsley, Burgh-
le-Marsh auxiliary co hon secretary, attended a show at
which RSPCA ﬁlms were seen by the children of Burgh-le—
Marsh School. Inspector Silcock gave the show.

London North East The Jackdaw Group of Animal De-
fenders, under their leader, Mrs Rowell (Edmonton SW
auxiliary hon secretary), had its annual party at Aldhelms
Hall, Edmonton. Mrs Hoddell, branch hon secretary,
attended. ‘ '
Manchester and Salford When the new auxiliary was
inaugurated for Northenden and Wythenshawe, with Mrs
M. Johnson as hon secretary, Mr C. Owen Hockin, Council
member, and Mr J. Green, branch secretary, attended.
Middlesex—North West Mr H. Sharwood, Brondesbury
auxiliary hon secretary, and friends, organized a whist drive
and raised £15 for branch funds.

Montgomery Mrs M. Andrew Hughes, branch hon secre-
tary, reports how Mrs Rees, when the Inspector was ill,
gave ﬁrst aid to a swan who was very difﬁcult to handle.
Norfolk—Mid and Norwich Mrs Wingate-Saul, Cromer
auxiliary co hon sec, reports that a bring-and-buy coffee
party organized by Mrs Cubitt of ‘Clifden’, East Runton,
raised £12 93. for branch funds. .
Norfolk West A social organized by Mrs Newton with
various helpers was held in East Winch school and raised
£8 13s. for branch funds.

The cruelties inﬂicted on animals by the gin trap were
stressed by Miss E. M. Hunter, Council member, at the
annual meeting of Hunstanton auxiliary at the Golden Lion
Hotel, Hunstanton.

The hon treasurer, Mr E. W. Molyneux, reported that
£150 had been sent to the branch by the auxiliary. He men-
tioned the work of the auxiliary hon secretary, Mrs Mudie
and of Miss Hulme, Heacham.

The Chairman, Dr C. R. H. Ball, spoke of the way people
had helped birds during the hard weather.

*

Mrs Robson, King’s Lynn auxiliary hon sec., organized
a Pantomime in Setch Village Hall for branch funds.

*

Miss A. Lambert, Magdalen auxiliary hon secretary,
organized a whist drive and dance at the Church Hall,
Magdalen. The sum of £10 was raised for branch funds.

Mrs Mudie, Hunstanton auxiliary hon secretary, with the
help of Mr and Mrs Cooper, organized a whist drive and
raised over £10 for branch funds.

Miss Diana Bray, a young Animal Defender, has organ-
ized several small jumble sales in aid of branch funds.
Peterborough and District Mrs Hunt-Pain, Whittlesey
auxiliary hon secretary, reports that a whist drive in Whittle-
sey raised £20 for branch funds.

 

[Photograph by courtesy of the South Wales Evening Post

Mr. Frank C. [ones of Landore, Swansea, is a supporter of
the GIamorgan—West and Swansea Branch. His begging
box raised over £30 in twelve months for branch funds

Plymouth and South-West Devon At the annual general
meeting of the branch, held at the Swarthmore Hall, Mutley
Plain, Plymouth. The Earl of Mount Edgcumbe presided.

Mr Ampleford, from Headquarters, spoke on the six Bills
for the protection of animals that had gone through the
Commons since 1949, and on the Bills which were still before
the House. It was reported that during the year there were
240 cases of alleged cruelty affecting 1,823 animals. Nine
persons were convicted.

Senior Inspector Mullard reported that a number of birds
had been affected by oil pollution but most have been
returned to clean water.

Preston and District Mrs Stott, hon clinic secretary,
organized a jumble sale and raised £40 to buy veterinary
instruments for the Clinic.

Rochdale In the absence of the Mayor, the chair was taken
at the annual branch meeting at the Town Hall, Rochdale,
by the Mayoress, Mrs A. G. Bossier.

Mrs Bossier moved the adoption of the report and this
was seconded by the Chief Constable, Mr S. J. Harvey.

The adoption of the statement of accounts presented by
Mr J. H. Staples, branch hon treasurer, was moved by the
Rev H. Nightingale and seconded by Dr H. Dobson-
Peacock.

Major Chapman gave an address and he was thanked, on
a motion by Mr Peter Scott, branch chairman, seconded
by Mrs C. H. Fearn. (A full report has been received from
Miss F. Osborne, branch secretary.)

 




 

 

50 I THE ANIMAL WORLD

May 1954

 

 

From Western Mail and South Wales N ews (sent by
Mrs Pugh’Evans, Monmouthshire branch. hon sec.)

PONIES HURT BY EMPTY FOOD
TINS

Cafe proprietors and housewives in Monmouth!
shire towns are advised to squeeze empty food
tins ﬂat before throwing them away so as to
minimize danger to mountain ponies. Meat, sara
dine and other food tins are taken and dumped
on mountain—side tips. Young ponies taken to the
tips by their parents soon learn the trick of licking
out the old tins

 

 

When the tins are buried by other rubbish the
ponies use their hooves to probe for them. Once a
pony puts his foot inside the jagged edge of the
tin and takes a step forward the tin grips the foot.
Every step taken by the pony causes the tin to
cut further into the heel.

Rounded Up ,
Oﬂicials of the RSPCA and the police then have

to round up the terriﬁed animals and hold them
while the tin is cut off.

Senior Inspector Godley said:

‘Ninety per cent Of these ponies in pain have
never been handled before. They are terriﬁed and
it is a terriﬁc struggle before we can remove the
tins.’ '

When a tin was being cut off a pony’s foot at
Blaenavon recently the Senior Inspector said it
took two policemen, two civilians and himself to
do the job.

‘It is beginning to get more prevalent than
ever. Last week we had six cases to deal with—
at Blaenavon, Cwm and Tredegar.

‘But there is a very simple solution. House—
wives and cafe proprietors have only to squeeze
the empty tins ﬂat before they are thrown away
and it would save all this 'bother.’

PERFORMING .ANIMALS

The following letter, ‘written by the Chief Secrea
tary of the RSPCA, was published recently in the
Daily Telegraph, under the heading ‘Animals in
Cages’:

‘Sir: Everyone knows that the RSPCA is opposed
to the training and exhibition of wild animals.
Nevertheless, supporters of this form of enterv
tainment frequently take the View expressed by
Mr P. A. Glew, who wrote that “if cruelty to
circus beasts could be proved, the RSPCA would
take action”. There are many forms Of cruelty
against which the Society can take no legal action.
Most performing animals are trained abroad,
where it has no jurisdiction. The circus means,
for wild animals, an unnatural life in cages and
in cramped travelling quarters. The law is more
easily satisﬁed than is the RSPCA. Nevertheless,
we have prosecuted where the cages, either for
living or travelling, have been of such a standard
as to involve “unnecessary suffering” which the
law demands should be proved in these prose,
cutions.’

QUESTIONS IN PARLIAMENT

Pit Ponies Regulations

MR JOHN HALL asked the Minister of Fuel and
Power what changes he proposes to make in the
general regulations covering the use of horses in
coal mines.

MR GEOFFREY LLOYD: None, Sir.

MR HALL: Is the Minister satisﬁed that the
present Regulations ensure the best working and
living conditions for the horses and ponies now
employed in the mines? -

MR LLOYD: Yes, Sir, I think so. This matter
was revised as recently as 1949 after consultation
with the animal protection societies.

CAPTAIN ORR: Can my Right Hon Friend say
how many ponies are now employed in the mines?

MR LLOYD: About 15,000——-about half the pre’

war ﬁgure. ‘

Myxomatosis

MR HURD asked the Minister of Agriculture to
what extent myxomatosis has now spread in this
country; what are the areas concerned; and when
he expects to receive the recommendations of
the Carrington Committee. »
SIR T. DUGDALE: Since the ﬁrst outbreak was
diagnosed at Edenbridge, Kent, on October 13
last, nine further outbreaks of myxomatosis in
wild rabbits have been conﬁrmed in Kent, East
Sussex, Essex and East Suffolk. There has been
no appreciable local spread of the disease from
any of the centres of infection, which are mainly
near the coast. I expect to receive recommenda’

tions from the Carrington Committee before the
end of March. ‘

 

 




 

52 THE ANIMAL WORLD

May 1954

 

WAIST—DEEP IN ICY WATER TO
RESCUE DOG

Mr C. Lander was driving a lorry near Shenﬁeld
Common Pond, Brentwood, Essex, when he
noticed two ambulance men by the edge and saw
a dog in difﬁculties in the iceacovered water.
Descending, he went on to the ice, which broke
under him. He tried at another point, and once
again the ice broke and he went into the water
up to his waist. ~

Two men from a coal lorry lent him a rope
and a shovel. He tied the rope round his body
and, breaking the ice with the shovel, managed
to reach the dog.

Mr J. Wright, one of the coal men, went into
the water up to his waist and brought the dog
ashore. Exposed to the icy weather, he knelt
down on the edge of the pond and gave the dog
attention.

Mr Lander lost his Wellington boots in the
pond and in doing so cut his feet, necessitating
several stitches at a hospital to which he was
taken.

For their bravery, both men have received the
RSPCA silver medal and citation certiﬁcate.
A similar award has gone to Mr J. Fawcett for

rescuing pigs from a burning building at North
Road, Carnforth.

Heifer in Mineshaft

A young heifer weighing about ﬁve to six hun—
dredweights had fallen into a shaft about 70 ft.
deep and 4% ft. wide at the bottom. The scene
of the accident was Grange Farm, Pantasaph,
Holywell, Flints. The heifer, after rescue, was so
lively that six men were needed to hold it for
examination.

Called to the scene by the police, Station Fire
Ofﬁcer T. D. Dutton descended by rope to assess
the possibility of a rescue. Fireman R. H. Jones
was then roped and lowered with the necessary
slings and, in spite of the difﬁculties in cramped
conditions, the two men succeeded in harnessing
the heifer, which was hauled to safety.

Both men have received the RSPCA bronze

medal and citation certiﬁcate.

Quarry'ledge rescue of a Sheep

Skilled tactics employed by two quarrymen led
to the rescue of a sheep from a ledge 150 feet
down a disused quarry face and 200 feet from the
foot of this artiﬁcial cliff. The old working, at
Threlkeld, Cumberland, had been a granite
quarry.

To begin their task, the rescuers—Mr H.
Greenop and Mr H. Robinson—drove a stake
into the side of Helvellyn Fell.

From the point where the stake was placed,
there was a sheer drop of 25 ft. and then the
ground sloped steeply away.

 

[Photograph by courtesy of the Eastern Daily Press

Senior Inspector Morrison takes from a rescuer a three-

month-old kitten, who had climbed 60 feet into an ash tree

and could not return. joey, the kitten, had been in this

predicament without food and water for thirty-six hours
before he was spotted and rescued

When both men reached the sheep, they
harnessed it; then, by their own expert methods,
they hauled themselves up one by one. As each
moved on the next step, his colleague guarded
the sheep. Three or four stages had to be covered
on the journey and the sheep was ﬁnally brought
to safety.

The names of Mr Greenop and Mr Robinson

appear in the recent list of RSPCA bronze medal
winners.

RSPCA Bronze Medal

A horse, ponies and other animals were rescued
from a ﬁre at Preston Place, London, NW2, by
the prompt and brave efforts of Station Oﬂicer
C. J. Full and Firemen D. J. Cruceﬁx and S. G.
Robertson.

Senior Inspector M. V. Waite rescued a cat
from an electricity pole at Wood Farm Estate,
Headlington. For his bravery, he has received the
RSPCA bronze medal and citation certiﬁcate.

Others who have received the same award for
the rescue of cats are: Fireman E. Jackson, who

 

 

 




 

 

 

54 THE ANIMAL WORLD

May 1954

 

 

     

 

lheall1ﬁngeﬁggr

BLACK
DEATH!

*

jetsam—once
a living
creature.

The dead
razorbill lies
on the shore

 

 

Oil—scourge of sea—birds .
‘Thousands perish in “black death” ’ was the
title of a Sunday newspaper article describing the
effects of oil 'pollutionrecently on the North
Cornwall coast between Polzeath and Perran—
porth. p =

The victims—covered with thick black oil—
were seavbirds. In the main, guillemots suffered,
though there was an occasional razorbill.

Seagulls, nesting on the cliffs and rocks inshore,
did not suffer to the same extent.

Few survive
In the ﬁrst week of this, the latest serious outv

break of oil pollution of the seas, RSPCA

 

RSPCA Inspectors patrol the shore at Perranporth

Inspectors Norris (Truro), Grinnell (Bodmin)
and Greenhalgh (Penzance) worked every day
from early morning until after dark on the rocks
and beaches. They picked up more than 800 sea—
birds. A few days later, and the total was over
1,000.

Guillemots and razorbills drifted helplessly with
the tides.

Inspector Grinnell said: ‘It is tragic and heart—
rending to see these poor birds struggling for
their lives. Their bodies are raw where their
wings have ﬂapped in desperation.’

A few birds were not too badly oiled, and these
were carefully cleaned and nursed—to be re—
turned later to the coast far away from oil’polluted
areas. The rest, unhappily, could be offered only
the speediest and most humane release from
their sufferings.

Trouble expected
Trouble from oil was expected at the end of

February and the beginning of March each year, '

 

A gannet and guillemots, photographed in the garage at

the home of Mrs Peebles, Cornwall-Mid Branch Hon Sec,

are among the few birds who responded to cleansing
treatment

but, said Inspector Norris, ‘Never in my life have
I experienced anything like this before!’

Oil pollution of the seas has for a long time
been of great concern to the RSPCA. The wide’
spread destrucrion of wild seavbirds must arouse
the indignation of all humane people, particuv
larly when they reﬂect upon the harrowing cir—
cumstances in which birds, helpless and oilv
pinioned, meet their doom.

Inﬂuential persons in increasing numbers are
coming to share the RSPCA View that the problem
can be solved only on an international basis.

Conference
In 1953, the Government issued a Report made
by the Committee on the Prevention of Pollution

of the Sea by Oil. A signiﬁcant recommendation




 

56 THE ANIMAL WORLD

May 1954

 

 

TRAVELLING BOXES THEIR TOMBS

 

In a certain garage, Inspector Budd found these ten cardboard boxes tied together in three parcels. He made his visit in

March and found no evidence that the containers had been opened since their delivery. They were clearly marked ‘Live Chicks’.

Opening the containers he found the carcases of 250 ‘day old’ chicks who had died from starvation and lack of water. Evidence

provided by the railway company showed that the cases had been delivered to their addressee in the early part of February.

The RSPCA brought the man to whom the chicks had been addressed before the Magistrates at Halifax West Riding Police

Court on a charge of unlawfully causing unnecessary suffering to 250 chicks. He was fined £I0 and ordered to pay £5 I 3s.
costs (A.682l)

DOG KEPT IN 18in. SQUARE BOX

A miner was ﬁned £5 and disqualiﬁed from keep—
ing a dog for 12 months at the Rotherham West
Riding Magistrates’ Court, for causing unneces—
sary suffering to an eightvmontthold terrier by
omitting to provide her with proper care and
attention. He was also ﬁned £1 for keeping the
dog without a licence.

A police constable said he interviewed the de—
fendant in respect of a dog licence, and one was
produced that had been issued that day.

Senior Inspector N. Young said he accompanied
the ofﬁcer to the defendant’s home and found the
dog with its back arched in an 18vinchvsquare
wooden box. It was suffering considerable pain,
and the skin on the neck had been broken by a
4—ft. chain which held the dog. The box was
neither waterproof nor weatherproof, while the

bedding was a piece of colliery belting.

The defendant said he could not keep the dog
inside because it scratched everything to bits, and
he refused to take it in until he was warned that
it would be taken away, said the Inspector.

When 8. Ins. Young paid a second visit he
was told, ‘We let the dog out and it got run over.’

The Chairman said the Bench had taken into
consideration the fact that the defendant had
neither appeared nor sent an apology. (A. 7948.)

RABBIT STARVED TO DEATH—
MAN AND WIFE FINED

Alleged to have let a rabbit starve to death, a
man and his wife were charged at the Shifnal
Magistrates Court with causing the animal unv
necessary suffering by neglect.

 

 




 

58 A THE ANIMAL WORLD

May 1954

 

BRANCH NEWS

  

shown in the

tirement at the
RSPCA Home of
Rest for Horses,
Ningwood, isle
of Wight

Ashton, Stalybridge, Mossley, Hyde, Glossop and District
Mrs W. Heap, branch president, is leaving the district to
live at Christchurch, near Bournemouth. As a parting gift
she received from members of the branch a walnut clock.
The presentation was made at the home of the branch co hon
secretary, Mrs F. A. Rawson-Schoﬁeld. The gift was handed
over by Mrs Heathcote, Dukinﬁeld auxiliary hon secretary.
Balham and Tooting, Wandsworth Common Auxiliary Mrs
Granville Stott (aux hon sec) reports that a very charming
dancing display, given by the young pupils of Mrs Ash, raised
£13 63. for. the Wandsworth Common Auxiliary Fund.
Birkenhead and Wirral The view that modern society is
becoming more and were sensitive about cruelty to animals,
was expressed by Mr W. H. Munday, secretary of the branch
at the annual meetingin the Town Hall. ‘People are becom-
ing more helpful to the Society, reporting cases of cruelty
and showing less reluctance to act as witnesses when the
Society wanted-to prosecute offenders,’ he said. ‘In 1904
there were 103 convictions for cruelty to animals in the
district, while in 1953 there were only eight.’ Those eight
convictions had arisen from the 165 complaints which Senior
Inspector Perry had investigated.

., 1n presenting his report on the work of the branch’s
animal clinic, the superintendent, Mr H. Little, said: ‘Last year
145 dogs were brought to me after being involved in road
accidents, and of these 77 had to be destroyed immediately
to preventfurther suffering.’ Mr Fred Willmer, chairman,
;said it was ‘regrettable that the branch should have had to
fdraw on its reserves to the extent of £800 in the last two years
:and he appealed for donations to the branch to try and help
out with the ever-increasing cost of protecting the animals of
Wirra .

The meeting accorded special thanks to the ‘News’
Chums’ League, for a donation of £20. The Mayor (Alderman
W. E. R. Short) was in the chair, and the Mayoress (Mrs
Short), presented the prizes and certiﬁcates in the ‘Kindness
to Animals’ essay competition. Others who spoke included
Mr F. J. Winchester, Council Member, the hon treasurer
(Mr J. L. Morey), Miss Marriott and Miss Size, who
proposed the vote of thanks to the Mayor and Mayoress.
Bournemouth and District Mrs Wyatt, Christchurch aux-
iliary hon sec, reports that a coffee party raised £6 6s.
for branch funds.

*

The Mayor of Bournemouth, Councillor H. P. E. Mears,
presented Fireman H. E. Frith with the RSPCA bronze
medal for rescuing a dog marooned on the cliffs near
Southbourne. The presentation formed part of the‘annual
inspection at the Central Fire Station of the Bournemouth

Brigade. Mrs E. Wallis Power, vice—chairman of RSPCA '

Council, branch hon secretary and Deputy Mayor of Christ-
church, read the citation.

Broniley and District (Kent) Among those present at the
West Wickham auxiliary annual general meeting, held at
the Old Lecture Hall, West Wickham, were: Mrs V. K.
Syer, auxiliary hon secretary; Mrs Storrar, chairman;
members of the committee and collectors. Mrs Hill, branch
hon secretary, was also present. Senior Inspector Good-
enough addressed the meeting.

mistress, Mrs B. M.
Pilz, of Chinley, via
Stockport. Dinah is

photograph in re-

A collection of a guinea was made for branch funds when
Senior Inspector Goodenough spoke to the Social Studies
Section of the Petts Wood Townswomen’s Guild.
Buckinghamshire School children from Haversham-cum—
Little, Linford, gave a concert and raised £3 63. for branch
funds. During the interval Mrs Tew, Newport Pagnell
auxiliary hon secretary, spoke about the RSPCA.
Caernarvonshire—Llandudno and District Miss M. Unwin
branch hon secretary, reports that Miss Jollif’fe, organized
a dance at the Llanbeds, Talybont, Memorial Hall, and

’ raised £12 for the RSPCA North Wales Mobile Unit.

Carmarthenshire Two ﬁremen received RSPCA medals
for saving two heifers from an 80 foot disused mineshaft.
Leading Fireman C. G. Thomas received the RSPCA silver
medal and Fireman R. Jones received the bronze medal.
They were presented with the medals by Mr James Jenkins,
chairman of Carmarthen County Magistrates. Mr A. C.
Mitchell, branch hon secretary, complimented them on their
ﬁne work. '

Devon 4 North The Countess Fortescue, branch president
and chairman, opened the branch Animal Welfare Centre
at Lynton. The Centre commemorates the work of RSPCA
Inspectors during the ﬂoods of August 1952. Michael
Ambrose, ﬁve year-old son of the Inspector, presented a
bouquet to the Countess. The Centre was dedicated by the
Vicar of Lynton, the Rev E. H. Souttar, and guests were
entertained afterwards by Mrs W. H. Jones, joint auxiliary
hon secretary for Lynton and Lynmouth.

Mrs Martin, Torrington auxiliary hon secretary, reports
that a ﬁlm show was given in the Rectory drawing room in
aid of branch funds and for the scouts.

Exeter, East and West Devon Miss P. M. Lane, leader of

the Woodbury Senior Primary School Group, reports that
recent activities of the Group included an Animal Quizz
and a Talk on Birds.

Glamorgan—Mid and Port Talbot Mrs V. L. Hands,
Porthcawl auxiliary hon secretary, organized a jumble sale
and raised £41 63. 11d. for branch funds. '
Great Yarmouth and District Mrs Scott, North Walsham
aux. hon sec, reports: £3 63. 3d. was raised for branch funds
when Mrs Goold and Miss I. Montford organized a whist
drive at Knapton to help animals and children. Bacton Sea
Urchins (Animal Defenders), under the direction of Mrs
Klyne, took part in a nativity play.

Grimsby and District At the branch supper-dance held at
the Field House, the ‘host’ was Hunter, the Golden Labrador
belonging to the branch chairman, Major Clixby Fitz-
wrlliams. Hunter was ‘assisted’ by Mrs I. Frankish, a member
of the committee for thirty-two years.

Among those present were: Major Clixby Fitzwilliams
and Mrs Fitzwilliams, the branch hon secretary, Mrs K. P.
Clapham and Mr K. P. Clapham and Mr H. Davis, hon
treasurer. ,

. ' . * . .

MISS Burgm, and her troupe of juvenile dancers gave a
concert at the St Peters Hall, Cleethorpes, for Animal
Defenders. The sum of £7 was raised for local funds. In-
spector Grant thanked the organizers and the dancers.

. *
MISS Boocock, group leader, organized a party for Animal
Defenders at Waltham.

*

Mrs L. Furman organized a bridge drive at Springﬁeld,
Bargate, and raised about £38 for branch funds.
Hertfordshire—East Miss Dorothy Vane, Welwyn Garden
City co aux hon sec, reports that a whist drive organized
fby C11V1r and Mrs Martin at Hatﬁeld raised £9 for branch
un 3.
Isle of Wight At the annual general meeting of the branch
held_ recently, The Hon Mrs Wilson-Heathcote, branch
presldent, was voted to the chair. Lady Lloyd, branch
chairman, helped to conduct the business before the meeting.

ng/Comdr Hillier (branch organizer) was thanked by
members present for his talk.

 

 

 




 

60 THE ANIMAL WORLD

May 1954

 

 

[Photograph by courtesy of the News of the World

The sum of £9 7s. l d. was collected for Surrey, Purley and

District Branch funds when these and other Selsdon Park

riders (thirty in all) under Miss joan Sharp, went carol

singing in the Selsdon District. Miss Anita Fleming suggested
this unusual method of carol singing

Heywood auxiliary held its annual general meeting at the
Heywood Baptist School, Heywood.

Lt-Col Coventry, branch organizer, addressed the meeting.
Rotherham and District The branch annual ball was held
in the Town Hall Assembly Rooms, Rotherham.

Shefﬁeld Mr D. S. Haggie, branch chairman, and Mrs‘ Collier,
branch hon secretary, inspected the new animal ambulance
delivered recently at the Animal Shelter.

Sittingbourne Division Mrs M. Draper, division hon secre-
tary, and committee, organized a whist drive and raised
£19 6s. 7d. for branch funds. ‘

Southport, Birkdale and District Miss Richards, branch
hon secretary, organized a coffee morning in conjunction
with a bring-and-buy sale at her home, and raised £47 for
branch funds.

Miss Richards also reports that a successful prize distri-
bution was held in the Little Theatre, when sixty-one children
received books from the Mayoress.

Stockport, East Cheshire and West Derbyshire Accom-
panied by Miss C. Rushby, Hayﬁeld auxiliary hon secretary,
committee members and friends, the Hayﬁeld Animal
Defenders visited Manchester Hippodrome.

Streatham, Brixton and Clapham A presentation was
reCently made to Inspector Duck and Mrs Duck who are
leaving this country to make their home in Australia.
This took place in the interval of a delightful recital given
by Mr E. W. Burgess and Mr S. Bevan Labbette, in St
Andrew’s Church Hall, Streatham. Mr Hardman spoke
most appreciatively of the work of Inspector Duck, and the
branch hon sec, Miss M. Tamplin, presented him with a
sum of money and Mrs Duck with a handbag, saying how
very greatly they would be missed, and wishing them every
happiness in their new life.

Suffolk—West, and Bury St Edmunds Miss Hunter,
Council member, speaking at the annual meeting of this
branch in the Guildhall at Bury St Edmunds, said if everyone
refused to buy a gin-trapped rabbit the gin would soon go.
Major Chapman, branch organizer, showed a gin trap at the
meeting. Chief Inspector Hillyer reported that during the
year he had investigated 129 cases of cruelty.

The hon secretary, Miss Walpole, said that the branch
was to be complimented on having remitted £600 to head-
quarters last year.

Mr Elton Halliley, chairman of the branch, presided and
members of the committee elected were: The Marchioness
of Bristol (branch president), Mr Halliley, Mrs Hares, Mrs
Danahar, Mrs White and Miss Walpole.

 

Sussex—East, and Hastings Mrs Sletcher, branch hon
secretary, reports that a jumble sale raised nearly £18 for
branch funds.

Torquay and South East Devon Mrs G. Wreford, Manaton
postmistress, organized a whist drive and donated the
proceeds to RSPCA branch funds.

Westmorland Mrs Coward, Kendal auxiliary hon secretary,
reports that the local Council granted the proceeds of a
dance (£10) to the branch, and the auxiliary held a coffee
morning and raised £18 10s. The Kendal auxiliary committee
wishes to thank all who helped to make these two functions
successful.

Wimbledon and District Mrs Dowdell, Group represent-

,ative on the Council, took the chair at the branch annual

meeting at the Welcome Hall, High Street, Wimbledon.
An encouraging report of the year’s work was given
by the branch hon secretary, Mrs Turner. In the report from
Mr H. J. Fooks, hon treasurer, a marked increase on the
previous year’s ﬁgures was shown. An address on the
general work of the Society was given by Mr Camm,
Assistant Secretary from headquarters.

A bring-and-buy sale before the meeting raised lively
interest with good results.

Battersea Auxiliary Mrs Turner, branch hon secretary,
reports that Mr A. E. Lawrence has been enrolled as the
ﬁrst adult member of the Battersea Welfare Centre.
Worcestershire—East, and West Warwickshire A jumble
sale organized at Droitwich by the Committee and auxiliary
hon secretary, raised £23 10s. for branch funds.
Yorkshire—Bradford and District During Bradford dog
week held at the Odeon Cinema by courtesy of Mr Edgar
Mitchell, manager, the sum of £21 103. was raised for
branch funds.

Miss Hall, branch secretary, organized a jumble sale
which realized £10 16s. for branch funds.

The branch chairman, County Councillor H. Whitehead,
presented the RSPCA Horse Badge to Mr E. G. Howarth,
chairman of Messrs Thomas Howarth Junior Ltd, who
received it for the horse named ‘Joe’.

Yorkshire—Harrogate and District Senior Inspector Jack-
son addressed the Pannal Ash Police Training Centre on
cruelty to animals.

Senior Inspector Jackson attended a pet show organized
by pupils of Boston Spa Secondary Modern School, under
the direction of the Head Master.

 

 

[Photograph by courtesy of Sussex Daily News

This picture taken when the Mayor and Mayoress of
Brighton, Alderman and Mrs ]. E. Hay, visited the Sussex—
West and Brighton District Branch Clinic

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

@RIHE'CCDRMS

Manufacturers of

UNIFORM CLOTHING

HOBSON & SONS CAPS HELMETS LEATHER
(LONDON) LTD ‘

BELTS POUCHES etc. etc.

Gold and Silver Laces

Embroideries of every

A” .. description for ALL
enquiries to

154-164 TOOLEY STREET UNIFORMED SERVICES

LONDON BRIDGE S.E.l PATTERNS OF CLOTH
and ESTIMATES

Telep/zone: HOP 2476 (4 lines) will be forwarded free of charge
Telegrams: HOBSON, BOROH, LONDON

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

R. s. PCCO A.

 

 

 

 

FORM OF BEQUEST FOR NATIONAL WORK

To those benevolent individuals who may wish to become benefactors byWill to this
Society, the following form is respectfully suggested:—

‘I bequeath to the ROYAL SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY To ANIMALS, founded
1824, for the general purposes of that Society, the sum of £ ............................................ , free.
of death duty and the receipt of the Treasurer for the time being of the said Society shall
be suﬁicient discharge for such legacy.’ (If it should be desired that the legacy should be ex'

pended on some particular phase of the Society’s work, a direction to this effect may be added to the

form of bequest.)

 

NOTE
By the Act of William IV and I Victoria, cap. 26, all Wills or Codicils must be in Writing signed by the

Testator, and attested by two witnesses in the presence of the Testator and of each other.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Printed by Shenval Press, Simson Shand Ltd, London, Hertford and Harlow, and
published by Arthur W. Moss for the RSPCA at 105 lermyn Street, London, SW1

 




