Dogs at work

Man’s useful friend has
served him in, diverse

and strange ways

 

Through the ages man has led the dog
down some strange by-paths. Only man’s
imagination has limited the uses he has made
of the dog.

In different countries and at different
periods, dogs were used as living hot water
bottles, as religious symbols, political party
mascots and as an item of costume for noble
ladies of fashion.

One of the strangest uses uncovered by
the Purina Dog Care Center was the employ-
ment of dogs as heating pads. Many peoples
of the world value the Mexican hairless dog
because they have no insulation and there-
fore possess higher contact heat. In ancient
days they were taken to bed as we would
take a heating pad to warm up. Many Mexi-
cans still use the hairless dogs to help in
cases of rheumatism, arthritis and similar
afflictions. In some cases the dogs have even
been ordered by doctors.

In England’s 17th century days of Good
Queen Bess, toy spaniels and toy poodles were
put to use as lap comforters. One peeress
taught a pair of dogs to carry the train of
her court dress.

At one time dogs were worshipped as
religious symbols. Twenty-ﬁve conturies ago
Anubis was god of the Egyptians. Tien Ken
was the heavenly dog of the Chinese.

In 18th century Holland the breed now
known as Keeshond (similar to the Nor-

   
   

wegian elkhound) became the symbol for
the political party that opposed the Prince
of Orange. The leader of the party was
Kees de Gyselaer. The mutual devotion be-
tween this man and his dog made the dog
the popular symbol of the movement. Thus
Keeshond (Kee’s hound) eventually became
the name of the breed.

Arctic sled dogs are used even today, but
few people know that years ago dogs were
also used to tow boats along Arctic rivers,
as well as through the waterways and canals
of Europe.

In Nice dogs with special brushes on their
backs used to clean the city drains by swim-
ming through them.

Before the development of electric motors,
most household appliances were dog pow-
ered. A long, low, bandy-legged type, bred
especially for running in a Wheel, turned
roasting spits, raised water at wells and
churned butter.

Man has found ingenious ways to utilize
not only the dog, but by-products of the dog
as well. American Eskimos poured the urine
of their sled dogs over the low roofs of the
houses to freeze, knowing the salts it con-
tained would attract caribou who might be
easily killed for food.

Chinese brides were once dowered With a
pack of dogs, whose skins were used for

(Continued on page 15)

7

 

 




 

 

Prevention —through licensing, quick examination,

and elimination of strays — is the
best policy in combatting this dread disease

\\

Dogs suffer from madness. It throws
them in a state of fury, and all dogs which
are bitten are also attacked with madness.”

Thus a physician described the course of
rabies in 1300 B.C.

One of history’s oldest recorded diseases,
rabies remains one of the most horrible. The
victim can be any warm-blooded animal
from dog, man, cattle, wildlife —— to bats!
The cure —— none.’

Little wonder it’s terriﬁed people for ages.
The only way to ﬁght it is prevention, avoid-
ing infected animals entirely or by vaccine
treatment in the early stages. Once clear-cut
symptoms appear, it’s too late. Nothing can
prevent a lingering, painful death.

Yet despite the fact rabies poses a constant
threat to public health, few people know
much about it; even fewer are aware that it
is a threat.

Part of the problem is that rabies statistics
don’t outline the full gravity of the situation.
In the ten year period from 1947 to 1958,
rabies deaths in man in the US. declined
from 22 to 6. Cases among domestic animals
declined 68% in the same period.

Doesn’t seem menacing at ﬁrst glance, but
additional ﬁgures shed a different light:
60,000 people exposed to rabies; cases
among wildlife more than doubled!

Since the disease makes no distinction be-
tween wild and tame animals — and man —
the fact it’s increasing in any area should
cause concern in every thinking community.
It could —— and in the past has —— spread
easily to reach almost epidemic proportions.

Just what makes the disease so horrible

    

and deadly? It’s caused by a virus trans-
mitted in the saliva of an infected animal
through its bite. This virus is highly infec-
tious and of a neurotropic type —— it “likes”
nerve tissue.

Introduced into the body, it attacks the
brain and spinal cord, results in either “furi-
ous” or “dumb” rabies. The furious type has
been largely responsible for the common pic-
ture of the mad dog. If the dog —— say the
family pet —— is bitten by a rabid animal and
develops furious rabies, the disease is likely
to go through the following stages.

Symptoms of rabies

The dog will undergo a marked change in
disposition for one to three days. A friendly,
good-natured dog may become sullen and
disobedient. A normally vicious dog may be-
come unusually attentive and playful. Moods
of both will alternate. Scratching, avoiding
light and noise, and a tendency to hide in
dark places are also common symptoms of
the ﬁrst stage. The animal avoids normal
food and tries to swallow indigestible objects
like sticks and stones.

He craves water, yet cannot swallow be-
cause the throat muscles are paralyzed;
hence the drooling and coughing ﬁts — the
“foaming” mouth and hydrophobia, fear of
water. Unrest and excitement increase to
frenzied activity. The animal is now a rag-
ing beast who attempts to tear or tears any
object into pieces. His torment completely
cancels his normal fears.

Caged dogs often break their teeth trying
to chew their way to freedom. The loose dog
roams far from familiar areas to run wildly

5

 




 

Shelburne Museum
welcomes dogs

You’ll never see a “No Dogs Allowed” sign
in the Shelburne Museum in Shelburne, Ver-
mont. With all its priceless treasures, the mu-
seum openly welcomes dogs in its buildings.

The appealing shOWplace, which calls it-
self “the museum of the American spirit,”
has reproduced a fascinating chapter in the
early life of Vermont and New England.
Located on 40 acres, the 28-building recon-
structed village contains a collection of cen-
turies of ﬁne old New England treasures.

Mr. and Mrs. J. Watson Webb, founders
of the museum have always held dogs in
high esteem and believe if they are properly
trained and restrained, they are a pleasure
to have around.

Mrs. Webb told ANIMAL PROTECTION, “My
own two dogs are with me constantly when
I am working in the Museum, and as far as

I know have given no trouble. I feel that
visitors who take their pets with them should
be allowed into the buildings at the Shel-
burne Museum and need not carry them. I
have also found that in very hot weather it
is cruelty to keep pets in a car while their
owners tour our grounds.”

 

From our Fan Mail

“Ever since receiving the fall 1960 issue
of the ASPCA’S Animal Protection, I have
been wanting to write to you to say what
an excellent job was done. The combination
of the regular publication, plus the special
section describing the ASPCA and its serv-
ices, has been beautifully done, and I do
not believe that any society has ever told
its story in a better or more attractive way.”

CHARLES W. F RIEDRICHS
Executive Secretary

San Francisco SPCA

 

NEW WINNER!

  

ALSO

 
  

 

 

Av AiLABLE
IN 50 “3'
BAGS FOR

KeNNELS-
. ASK YOUR
surruaa

 
 

 

 
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
  

Sizes: lO‘/4 ozs., 30 ozs., 4 lbs., 20 lbs.

DOG DINNER

(REPLAGES PAL TINY BITS) ®

N ow—a “complete food” that has been thoroughly tested for
3 years on 3 generations of dogs! Puppies and full-grown dogs—fed
exclusively on new Pal Dog Dinner—met every standard of sound
and healthy growth our nutritional experts demand. There’s no need
to add vegetables or meat or milk or supplements of any kind. Keep
your dog on a steady diet of Pal Dog Dinner and watch him thrive!

16

 




 

 

w complete nutrition

|
V crunchy, tasty puffs
of goodness

V feed wet or dry

      

'2

5:74am

Applégu

 

        

DOG FOOD

Q 5;.“ Applegms

l'_—_———-—_————-_'l

INTRODUCTORY OFFER

l
Free—Dog Collar l
with 25 lb. Shush Pup I
I

|

l

l

Free—Doggie Chooz
with 10 lb. Shush Pup

Limited time only

Also—Meal, Pellets, Kibble, Horsemeat, Chicken, Beef, Ration

 

Pets as Christmas Gifts

Bright and early on Christmas morning
children all over the country will eagerly
open gaily wrapped boxes under the Christ-
mas tree. Somewhere a child will ﬁnd in his
stocking a live, cocker spaniel puppy—the
puppy he’s been begging for all year. He’ll
hug the puppy for a second, then go on to
the electric trains and the red bicycle. While
the Whole family is swept up in the day’s
activities, the puppy will lie whimpering, for-
gotten and neglected in a corner.

This is the reason behind the ASPCA’S
yearly warning to parents not to place live
Christmas gifts under the tree or in a stock-
ing. Even though it doesn’t ﬁt into the
traditional idea of presenting gifts, we
strongly recommend that you bring the pet
home a few days before, or a few days after,
the hectic holiday rush when the pet will
have the family’s undivided attention.

We also offer several other suggestions for

12

adopting pets at Christmas. First, get a good
book on pets and their care before you shop
for the animal. Bone up ahead of time on
how to chose a pet, its feeding, grooming,
symptoms of illness and housetraining. Next
analyze your own family and decide on a pet
that will ﬁt into your home or apartment
and your family’s way of life.

As a rule children under ﬁve are not ready
for a live pet. Older children should be pre-
pared for the pet’s arrival and taught con-
sideration and kindness and how to handle
an animal without teasing, twisting its legs
or pulling the tail.

The next step is preparing a place where
the pet will be kept. Buy feeding dishes, a
bed, etc. Finally, introduce the pet into the
household in an atmosphere of calm. Let the
animal adjust gradually to his new home, and
you will be off to a good start with a pet
which will enrich your life for many years.

 

 




 

NEW
YORK’
FINEST

Last fall the New York Police force had
the toughest assignment in its history— that
of protecting Red bloc chiefs who attended
the U. N. sessions. Soviet Premier Nikita S.
Khrushchev, Cuban Premier Fidel Castro,
and at least a dozen other top echelon visi-
tors were under heavy police guard all dur-
ing their New York stay to protect them not
only from hostile mobs, but also from overly-
ardent supporters.

It’s safe to say the job of controlling the
demonstrations would have been a great deal
tougher without the stately, well-trained
horses which make up the New York Police
Department’s Mounted Division. Along with
foot patrolmen and squad cars, the horses
pounded beats around embassies, hotels and
travel routes, helping to maintain order.

A former police commissioner once esti-
mated that one mounted patrolman was more
effective than ten men on foot in controlling
unruly crowds. Large disorderly mobs can
easily send foot patrolmen sprawling, but a
few trained horses and riders can restore
order in a short time.

No modern equipment can give the ﬁve-
feet up vantage of horseback and at the same
time thread through the narrow ways of the
City’s traffic. In other cities mobs have been
known to overturn a squad car. But no one
has yet turned over a police horse.

There were only two casualties among the
horses during that hectic 1U. N. session. A
big bay named Style got a nail in his hoof
while stationed in front of the U. N. Another

horse named Bangle developed kidney
trouble. Both were trucked hacked to their
home stables in the ASPCA’s horse ambu-
lance. They were treated by one of the
private veterinarians on call to the Police
Department and were back to work a
couple of days later.

Now that most of the visiting dignitaries
have gone home, the Mounted Squads are
back at their usual jobs directing traffic and
controlling crowds in the Times Square
theatre district, parks, picnic areas, beaches,
the garment center, and along miles of water-
front and bridle paths. Special assignments
include parades, labor strikes and sports
events.

The City’s ﬁrst mounted police unit was
organized 90 years ago to overcome reckless
galloping of carriages and saddle horses in
and around Central Park. During the ﬁrst
year 420 arrests were made, and in 1871 the
Police Department reported “reduced casual-
ties and injuries from fast and reckless driv-
ing to such an extent that the area can now
be used by quiet and orderly citizens with a
degree of comfort and safety not hitherto
in recent years enjoyed.”

Gradually horses were added to other pre-
cincts in outlying areas where a mounted
patrolman could cover three times the area
of a foot patrolman.

First parade duty in 1898

The ﬁrst time mounted squads were used
to police a parade was the Admiral George
Dewey victory parade in 1898. This was the
largest New York City parade up to that time.

There are 232 horses on the police force
now, plus 23 rookies in training. For its
mounts the Department picks the ﬁnest
horseﬂesh. The horses must be between four
and eight years old, bay geldings, weighing
1,050 to 1,250 pounds, between 15.3 and
16.2 hands high, and in sound health.

They are purchased through open com-
petitive bidding from dealers out west. For
the past few years Wiley Jones, of El Reno,

(Continued on page 20)

3

 

 




 

 

   
    

EDITORIAL

Last September Life magazine carried a
three-part condensation of Ernest Heming-
way’s book on bullﬁghting, complete with
two-page color pictures. During the same
month actress Kim Novak announced plans to
participate in a bullﬁght, a new car was named
the Matador, and TV’s Jack Paar ended up
in a hospital after running into a fence to
avoid a bull while posing as a matador.

Bullﬁght publicity in this country is in-
creasing alarmingly. While in some areas
humane societies can prevent actual bull-
ﬁghts, unfortunately, there is nothing we can
do about publicity concerning them. Protests
from us are expected, even anticipated and
discounted, by television and the press.

But letters from the public and subscrip-

tion cancellations will hit these media where
it hurts. The following letter from a Santa
Barbara, California, man was written to Life
magazine, with a copy to the ASPCA.
_ “Ernest Hemingway’s morbid preoccupa-
tion with the revolting spectacle of the bull-
ﬁght is of course a matter for him to resolve
with his own conscience, but when Life lends
its pages to his portrayal of this senseless,
barbaric torture of one of God’s dumb crea-
tures, then I feel compelled to part company
with Life. I am returning herewith your bill-
ing for my 77 week subscription. Please can-
cel at once.

“In the name of outraged mercy and
compassion what right has any human to
needlessly inflict this horror and misery and
degradation on defenseless animals? I am
sorry that I cannot adequately express my
loathing and contempt of Hemingway and
the hideous nightmare of the bull ring which
is staged solely to provide ‘kicks’ for de-
praved crowds.”

Other Americans who are also disturbed
by the attempts to lull the public into a
passive acceptance of bullﬁghting as a sport
should take issue directly with the people,
publications or media involved.

    

VOL. 14, NO. 3

Janice Paprin, Editor

WINTER 1960

IN THIS ISSUE

New York’s Finest .............

Your Pet’s Health ..............
Rabies — a Present-Day Problem.
Dogs at Work ................... 7
Canine Favorites over the Years. . . 8

Dolphins Go to the

Head of the Class .............. 10
Pets as Christmas Gifts ........... 12
Animals Make News in 1960 ..... l3
ASPCA Aids Humane

Societies Abroad .............. 14

A Visit with the Chinook Huskies. . 15
Shelburne Museum Welcomes Dogs 16
Medals of Honor ................ 17
No Animal in Need of Care .......

Inside Back Cover

 

 

Cover picture

We show our cover puppies under a Christmas
tree as a reminder that giving pets as Christmas
gifts requires more planning and care than
adopting a pet at any other time of the year.
See page 12.

Animal Protection is published three times yearly
by The American Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, Editorial Ofﬁce, 30 East 60th
Street, New York 22, N. Y.




 

 

 
  

momma/rim

OF DU PONT NYLON

PROVEN SAFE FOR YOUR DOG
. ASK YOUR VETERINARIAN

. USED BY LEADING ANIMAL HOSPITALS. KENNELS.
AND HUMANE SOCIETIES

.CAN SAVE DOGS' LIVES. .NO COSTLY SURGERY

.WILL SAVE VALUABLE PROPERTY FROM
DESTRUCTIO

.BENEFICIAL TOOTH CLEANING AND GUM
EXERCISE . . . NO TOOTH WEAR

'No upsers. . .NO EMBARRASSING vomrmc.
.- .NO INTESTINAL STOPPAGES

SIZES

WOLF-SIZE 8'99

-For LARGE Dots

REGULAR $139

-For MOST Dogs
.5? 5.13.35... 89 ¢
( Slightly Higher In Canada 81. Mexico )
COSTS FAR LESS, IN THE
LONG RUN, THAN ANYTHING
ELSE FOR DOGS TO
HEW ON

NYLABONE Corporation

  

  
 

    
    

 

 

 

    

P. 0. Box 7222 0k|ahomuCityI2, Okla.

 

7

\
%3quires only $40 every 3 months Start ;\
/ any time; stop any time—no penalties \\

/ We’ll supply facts on stocks In which
you are interested. Choice of 1200 stocks
/ listed on New York Stock Exchange. \
. Write for Budget Plan Booklet

/THOMSON & MCKINNUNsx

2 Broadway, New York 4
MEMBERS NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE \

ASPCA aids
humane societies abroad

Two animal humane societies in the Near
East —— one in Israel and one in Iran —
appealed for ASPCA assistance recently.

The Jerusalem Animal Hospital in Jeru-
salem, Israel, requested dog food and drugs,
particularly ﬂea and tick powder. The
ASPCA in turn appealed to several large pet
food manufacturers, but with no success.

We were more successful, however, with
drugs. Pet Chemicals, Inc., of Miami, Florida,
a pharmaceutical house, donated Tick Rid.
Dr. Morris Siegel, a veterinarian of Nyack,
New York, who had Visited the Jerusalem
Animal Hospital, also sent tick powder.

Herbert Marcus, director of the Israel hos-
pital, also asked to receive ANIMAL PROTEC-
TION regularly, and was placed on our mail-
ing list.

The Iranian Animal Protective Society,
which is attached to the Iranian Red Lion
and Sun (the Iranian Red Cross), requested
educational material to promulgate better
understanding of animal problems among the
public. We immediately shipped a 44-pound
package containing over 500 pieces of lit-
erature.

Blanche Saunders resigns
as Obedience Trainer

Sixteen years ago, when the ASPCA
decided to inaugurate obedience training
classes for dogs in New York City, Blanche
Saunders was selected as trainer. In the
years since she has seen over 17,000 dogs
and their owners graduate with honors, a
credit to the superior ability which has made
her one of the country’s trainers.

We regret that for personal reasons Miss
Saunders will no longer be able to conduct
our classes.

 

/// 

Buyers -. Breeders - All Breeds - A.K.C. Register With
Pet Prospectors

(LOCATING AND CONSULTING SERVICE)
‘Have a Pow-Wow for Bow-Wow"
Kittens Too! — Delivery
THE GRIMMINGERS

78I CONKLIN STREET FARMINGDALE, l. I, N. Y.
CHapeI 9- 6988

 

 

 

 

 

 




'CS
.1

otect

 




 

.mo_o 2:53: 3.50» 2—: 0a qu Evoon 0;... "000..

.2587. gov—woo “neg. whoa—20...... :UELoG "muo—

o_:ou "moo—

 




 

PRODUCTS AND SERVICES

 

ANIMAL PORTRAITS

O
Immortahze Your Pet!
FULL COLOR 9x12; PASTEL PORTRAIT —- ONLY $10.00
Send photo and color information with check or
money order.
FRANCES COCHANSKI — Pet Portraits
622 WEST 114th STREET NEW YORK 25, N. Y.

DOG & CAT FOOD

DOG TRAINING

 

 

CAL-COD

CRUMBLIZED
DOG MEAL

5718—48th Street Maspeth 78, N. Y.
STillweIl 6-2468

 

CANINE COLLEGE

TRAINING — TRIMMING — SUPPLIES
BOARDING
New York Office Conn. Office

449 E. 86th ST. WEST REDDING, CONN.

TRafalgar 6-2417 WEbster 8-2124

 

 

GIFTS

 

 

 

WAGNER BROS. FEED CORP.

Importers and Distributors

1160 MYRTLE AVE. BROOKLYN 21. N. Y.
GLenmore 5-2719

 

I

 

 

DOG FURNISHINGS

 

 

NIAAQQQI H

OHAVE EVERYTHING

dostylcin-g quality- custom fit
A PRODUCT OF THE J. HANKIN CO.

 

CANINE CLASSICS BR’ELELDS

Cuff Links $7. 50
Tie Bars $5
Ladies Pins $5
Lapel Pins $5
Charm $3.50
Tie Tack $5
, , Check or Money Order

' ‘ Postpaid
BEAUTIFULLY SCULPTURED HEADS

Three dImenSIonal 24K, 4-way
plate hand polished.
Denim aprons striped background; double 8 in
fold of harmonizing color — one of 4 pockets
your favorite breed — $4.95 Postpaid.

MAE KENT

Dept. AP—67 W. NECK RD., HUNTINGTON, N. Y.
Creators and Manufacturers . . . Copyrighted

 

PET SUPPLIES

 

 

 

 

DOG GROOMING

 

ANN’S HOME
GROOMING SERVICE

EXPERT DOG GROOMING IN YOUR HOME OR MINE
Poodles Our Specialty
FOR APPOINTMENT CALL AFTER 6 P.M.
YU 8-3492

 

DOG KENNELS

KEEP YOUR PETS
FREE OF FLEAS
TICKS, MITES, ETC. SPRAY THEM WITH
M I T - E - K I L
HINTON & C0.. INC.
67 MURRAY ST.. NEW YORK CITY

 

 

 

 

PROTECT THE HEALTH AND WELL-BEING
OF YOUR PETS WITH
LONGLIFE®
AQUARIUM FISH FOODS AND REMEDIES

Longlife Fish Food Products

707 New York Ave. Union City, N. J.

 

 

 

IRADELL KENNELS

Breeders and Importers
O

FINEST TYPE SKYE TERRIERS. SILKY TERRIERS
and TOY POOD DLES

Mrs. N. Clarkson Earl, Jr. Alex Williamson
. Owner Manager
RidgetIeld, Conn. ldlewood 8-3400

Walter C. Foster, handler

TROPICAL FISH

 

 

 

GERMAN SHEPHERDS OF QUALITY
Good Bone Structure, Good Temperament, Con-
formity and Coat, for Show or Obedience.
Boarding and Training.
WILLANA-HENKEL KENNELS

Boardma-n, New Milford, Conn. Route 7

 

18

 

 

 

A must for
Aquarium
Enthusiasts!

ALL NEW

IN COLOR!

Golden Anniversary

TROPICAL FISH HANDBOOK CATALOG

The most complete selection of tropical fish beauti-
fully illustrated in natural colors. This 60- -page hand-
book is an encyclopedia of tropical fish breeding
care do-it-yourself, etc., etc. Only 50¢

AQUARIUM STOCK COMPANY, INC.
31 Warren St.. N. Y. 7. N. Y.

 

 

 

 




 

 

Booklet on traveling
with a dog

Years ago, when traveling by car was a
daring adventure, few hotels and motels ac-
cented guests with dogs. Today, it’s different.
Many places not only accept well-behaved
dogs, but as one motel owner put it: “Some
dogs are a lot cleaner than people.”

The job of listing hotels and motels that
accommodate guests with dogs was under-
taken 13 years ago by the Gaines Dog Re-
search Center. In 1947 the Center put out a
small mimeographed list called “Touring

with Towser.” Through the years over a
quarter of a million copies were distributed.
The 1960 edition, a 44-page booklet, lists
5,000 hotels and motels throughout the coun-
try, 1,000 more than were listed in last
year’s directory.

Included in the booklet are six “good con-
duct” rules for traveling dog owners, a list
of recommended supplies to take along, and
general information about health and rabies
requirements.

“Touring with Towser” is available for
25¢ from Gaines Dog Research Center, 250
Park Ave., New York 17, N. Y.

 

New York’s Finest

(Continued from page 3 )
Oklahoma, has been the low bidder. This
year’s bid was 35373.

Last October a committee of four men
from the Police Department and the Pur-
chase Department traveled to the Jones
ranch and selected 23 mounts which met the
department’s speciﬁcations. The horses were
then shipped east and turned out to pasture
while temper, intelligence, soundness and
wind were checked.

After ten days probation, they started an
intensive three-month training period at the
Remount Armory at Madison Avenue and
94th Street. The rookies were ﬁrst accus-
tomed to a bridle, saddle and rider. Next
they were taught to walk, trot, back up, jump
over a three-foot wall, and get in and out
of crowds.

“Green horses” are subjected to trafﬁc
sounds over loud-speakers and later to actual
trafﬁc and pedestrians. They also learn to
push back a crowd with a slow side step
without kicking anyone.

The last step is to assign a rider, who must
meet qualiﬁcations including weight not over
170 pounds, a clean record and some foot
patrol experience. Previous knowledge of
horsemanship is not necessary, but the job

20

is in such demand that, according to one
Mounted Division lieutenant with 39 years
on the force, “anyone who has ever been on
a merry-go-round submits this as a qualiﬁca-
tion when applying for the job.”

Men assigned to the Mounted Division
must undergo 30 days of basic training in
horsemanship. Great care is taken in match-
ing horse and rider, for the pair usually stay
together until one or the other leaves the
force. After many years they become so
close that horses have pined away and re-
fused to eat when a rider retired or died.
Men, too, have experienced temporary emo-
tional upsets when a horse was lost.

Although the department employs a har-
nessmaker, six horse shoers and 40 civilian
hostlers to groom the mounts, the riders take
such pride in their charges that many of
them groom their own horses.

Some police horses have been on the force
over 20 years, but the average length of
service is 12 years. Prior to 1959 retired
horses were given to applicants who promised
to provide a good home and use the horse
for nothing but riding. But such applications
are not received too often, and now all
mounts live out their years in splendid re-
tirement at the New York City Department
of Health’s luxurious farm at Otisville, N. Y.

 

 

 

 




 

Created
through
research

. . . proved
in practice

The food a cat eats day in and day
out determines whether or not it
will enjoy true, glowing health
throughout its lifetime. By feeding
Puss ’n Boots you are sure of the
Wholesome balanced diet cats need.

Both Puss ’n Boots Original Fish
Formula and the New Meat Flavor
provide a cat With every nutrient
known to be necessary for thriving
growth, abundant energy, and a
sunny disposition.

The Original Fish Formula com-
bines fresh—caught Whole fish,
whole grain cereals, and'added
Vitamins B1 and E.

And New Meat Flavor Puss ’n Boots
adds a helping of good red meat for
appetite appeal. Fed every day, a
diet of Puss ’n Boots will keep the
pet of the family brimming with
health and vitality.

PUSS ’n BOOTS ‘

now two kinds. . .

New Meat Flavor for cats who like meat
Original Fish Formula for cats who like fish

Once a day—Every day—for lifelong nutrition
Coast Fisheries Division of The Quaker Oats Company, Chicago 54, illinois

 

 

 

 

Available In 8 oz.
and larger sizes

 




 

THE AMERICAN
SOCIETY FOR THE
PREVENTION OF
CRUELTY To ANIMALS

FOUNDED AND INCORPORATED 1866

 

Ofﬁcers

William Rockefeller, President
James H. Ripley, Vice-President
Richard C. Kettles, Vice-President
Horace H. Nahm, Vice-President
James H. Jenkins, Treasurer

John W. Ream, Secretary

Board of Managers

Wm. Joshua Barney, Jr.
John D. Beals, Jr.
William E. Buckley
Ernest B. Burton
John W. Cross, Jr.
José A. Machado, Jr.
Alastair B. Martin
William A. Meyerhoif
William F. Morgan
Joseph B. Murray
Hugh E. Paine

A. Wells Peck

W. Ross Proctor
George B. Wagstafi

Managers Emeritus

F. Ambrose Clark
Robert L. Jones
Henry J. Fisher
Samuel R. Milbank

**

96

Division Directors

R. W. Allen, Comptroller
Thomas A. Fegan, Assistant Comptroller

Arthur L. Amundsen, Director of Operations

June Eliot, Director of Public Relations, Fund Raising
and Humane Education

John E. Whitehead, V.M.D., Director of Hospital and Clinic

Administration Ofﬁces TRafalgar 6-7700
441 East 92nd St., New York 28, N. Y. (York Ave.)
R. W. Allen, Comptroller
Arthur L. Amundsen, Director of Operations
George H. Tuscher, Supervisor of Humane Work

Hospital and Clinic
441 East 92nd St., New York 28, N. Y.
John E. Whitehead, V.M.D., Director

TRafalgar 6-7700

Public Relations and PLaza 5-1650

Fund Raising Department
30 East 60th St., New York 22, N. Y.
June Eliot, Director
Volunteer Activities
Maude Hayman, Director
Humane Education Department TRafalgar 6-7700
441 East 92nd St., New York 28, N. Y.

Diana Henley, Supervisor

Animalport

Air Cargo Center, New York International
Airport, Jamaica 30, N. Y.

George F. Bauer, Resident Manager

OLympia 6-6042

Bronx Shelter TYrone 28500
420 Morris Park Avenue, Bronx 60, N. Y.
(between Tremont Ave. and East 178th St.)

N. Michael Bromley, District Manager

Brooklyn Shelter

233 Butler St., Brooklyn 17, N. Y.
(between Nevins and Bond Streets)
Harry J. Connolly, District Manager

TRiangle 5-9580

Manhattan Shelter
441 East 92nd St., New York 28, N. Y.

Francis Melvin, District Manager

TRafalgar 6-7700

Nassau County Shelters

Pratt Blvd. Ext, Glen Cove, L. 1.
Vincent J. Patterson, Shelter Manager
70 Water Street, Long Beach, L. 1.
James J. McKenna, Shelter Manager

ORiole 6-5913

GEneral 1-0660

Queens Shelter

94-27 158th St., Jamaica 33, N. Y.
Robert B. Ferris, District Manager

Richmond Shelter

4 Willow Ave., Rosebank, S. I. 5, N. Y.
Walter L. Hollinde, District Manager

REpublic 9-4041

GIbraltar 7-0122

Western Westchester Shelter

Old Saw Mill River Rd., Elmsford, N. Y.
Carl Stohr, Shelter Manager

LYric 2-7890

Serving Glen Cove, Sea Cliff, Bayville, East Hills.

Serving Tarrytown, North Tarrytown, Mount Pleasant, Irvingtou, Dobbs
Ferry, Hastings-on-Hudson.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

The skin and its hygiene

by the Veterinary Staff
ASPCA Hospital and Clinic

An animal’s skin is a complex, delicate
tissue with ﬁve main functions. The skin
protects underlying tissues from injury, reg-
ulates water loss, maintains a steady body
temperature, produces vitamin D when ir-
radiated by sunlight, and acts as a receptor
of sensation.

Clearly, this highly important body cov-
ering must be cared for so it will continue
to perform these vital functions. A program
of skin care should include proper grooming,
control of skin parasites, good general health
and proper diet.

Grooming and bathing

Domestic animals must be properly
groomed to develop and maintain healthy
hair and skin. Daily brushing and combing
will help produce a soft, supple, glossy coat.

An axiom of good skin hygiene is: the
less you bathe a dog, the better the hair coat.
Puppies are susceptible to colds and pneu-
monia. Therefore a “dry shampoo” is often
substituted for a soap and water bath.

However, city dogs, because of soot and
dirt in the streets, must be bathed through-
out the year at the owners’ discretion. Before
bathing, protect the eyes with an ophthalmic
ointment, mineral oil or petrolatum. Put cot-
ton in the ears to keep them dry.

Use any mild shampoo or castile soap with
clean warm water. Rinse thoroughly with
clean warm water. Do not add pine oil, com-

4

mercial household cleaners or disinfectants
to the bath water or apply them to the coat.

Skin parasites

Fleas, lice, mange mites and ticks fre-
quently cause or aggravate cases of eczema
and dermatosis. In the case of ﬂeas and ticks,
half the control problem lies in keeping the
environment free of the eggs and newborn
parasitic insects, since the eggs are laid in
the environment, not on the animal. The
other half of the problem is concerned with
ridding the animal of the insects. Mange
mites and lice lay their eggs on the animal.

Insecticides take the form of powder, solu-
tions and sprays. All are poisonous to man
and domestic animals, besides being lethal to
insects. Harsh chemicals will only aggravate
the existing conditions, and quack remedies
must never be used on an animal. Therefore,
ask you veterinarian to establish the best
pest control program for your animal.

Metabolism

The skin is often a mirror of internal dis-
order and must be treated in conjunction
with therapy for a diseased metabolism.
Many skin problems stem from hormone
deﬁciencies, such as either lack of or exces-
sive amounts of male and female sex hor-
mones, thyroid gland slowdown, etc. There-
fore, treatment of skin disorders entails
careful consideration of external and internal
metabolism.

Nutrition

Nutritional deﬁciencies are quickly re-
flected in the skin and hair coat. Dogs should
be fed meat, vegetables and dry dog meal.
Puppies should be given a vitamin supple-
ment (human preparations can be used). Cod
liver oil is a good source of vitamin A and D.

Cats should be fed a varied diet of meat,
fish, vegetables, etc. Because the cat has an
extremely high vitamin B complex require-
ment throughout its life, its protein require-
ment is far greater than the dog’s. Fatty
acids, in the form of animal fats or kitchen
cooking oils, are valuable in maintaining
proper skin and hair coat health.

 




 

 

Rabies

(Continued from page 5 )
and aimlessly, attacking any person or ani-
mal within its path ~— even its master!

In the end, a creeping paralysis begins
and he limps home to die of suffocation as
the respiratory system fails. Dumb rabies is
very much the same except the paralysis sets
in sooner.

The tragedy is that a simple anti-rabies
injection might have spared the dog —— and
the people it might have bitten.

And rabies in man is not far different.
With equal, tragic pain, rabid men have
been known to die cursing their Creator,
their loved ones and themselves.

Of course, in humans awareness of the
danger means the proper measures can be
taken. The Pasteur series of injections can
be effective when started soon enough and
continued over a period of 14 to 21 days.
It cuts off the virus from the nervous system.

But speed is the key. Any animal bite
should mean a quick trip to the doctor and
securing the offending animal for tests, if
possible. Each hour of delay means danger.
And with bites on naked ﬂesh, especially
around the face and upper parts of the body,
there is barely any time-lag at all.

Medical treatment painful

But even the medical treatments have
drawbacks. They’re painful—though noth-
ing compared to the disease itself — and in
some cases, they can be dangerous. Because
of this, the American Veterinary Medical
Association stresses that prevention —— rigor-
ously enforced — is still the best policy.

The history of rabies in many countries
bears them out. England is a good example.
Rabies ran rampant in the British Isles dur-
ing the American Revolution. In the 19th
century, the country began to enforce strict
measures: licensing all dogs, muzzling all
dogs and quarantining all incoming animals
for 6 months’ observation. Also: capturing

and humanely destroying all unlicensed
“strays.”

6

Result: Rabies was completely eradicated!

Similar measures have achieved the same
results in Ireland, Denmark, Norway, Sweden,
Australia and Hawaii.

New York City hasn’t had a case of rabies
for at least 15 years. Stringent measures
adopted by the Department of Health are
responsible. All animals accused of biting
must be examined by a. Department of Health
veterinarian or any licensed veterinarian
who must submit his report to the Depart-
ment of Health.

The veterinarian may release the animal
for future examination, have it held for ob-
servation, or in the case of a third bite
within a 24-month period, the dog must be
surrendered to the Department of Health
for hearing and decision.

While the ASPCA has no jurisdiction in
these cases, it provides free space in its ﬁve
borough shelters where the Department of
Health may examine the animals or hold
them for observation. Last year 6,091 ani-
mals were held.

The absence of rabies in New York can
also be credited to the few strays seen on
the, street because of the ASPCA’s program
of picking up strays and calling for un-
wanted animals from homes.

Any community can take these control
measures, yet, in the U.S., many don’t!

While the immediate responsibility for
rabies control falls to each separate com-
munity, the ﬁght is being waged on other
fronts. Science has developed a hyperimmune
serum and, under some circumstances, its
timely use can reduce the number of Pasteur
injections required to prevent the disease
after a bite.

The American Veterinary Medical Associ-
ation is organizing information campaigns
to ﬁll in community, farm and conservation

groups on rabies problems and how to
meet them.

They hope—along with all who truly
understand the disease—that rabies, some
day, will become just an out-of—date word.

 




 

CANINE FAVORITES OVER THE YEARS

Changing leaders in the canine derby are

as unpredictable as fashions in Clothes

ads in dog breeds change as sharply and
mesteriously as changes in the hemline.
As 1960 draws to a close, dog circles eagerly
await results of this year’s popularity poll
which may topple a favorite whose reign
has lasted seven years.

Of the estimated 26 million dogs in the
country Mr. Mutt is still number one in
popularity—- with nobody even within bark-
ing distance. But the ten million purebreds
in the pack behind him jockey for position
in an annual race which has seen a breed
win one year, only to end up out of the run-
ning a few years later.

Since 1953 beagles have been the top
purebred dog in the country, according to
the American Kennel Club, which keeps the
records on purebred registrations in 114
different breeds. The beagle’s claim to fame
is that he is all things to all men. To the city
dweller he’s a gentle-eyed clown whose antics
are never cramped in close quarters. To the
suburbanite he’s a ﬁne watchdog. To the
sportsman he’s a living legend with remark-
able powers of scent.

Last year right behind the beagle, in this
order, were the poodle, chihuahua, dachs-
hund, German shepherd, cocker spaniel,
boxer, pekingese, collie and Boston terrier.

But after seven years on top, beagles are
apparently on the way out. The poodle, last
year’s runner up, is the dog to watch. Not
even in the running 15 years ago, the breed
has chalked up steady annual increases, was
in eighth place in 1955, and the experts are
putting their money on poodles to win in 1960.

Bred originally in Germany as a water
retriever, the poodle is now a fashionable,
elegant walking companion, reveling in a
chic coiffure and all too often jewelled col-

8

lars and painted toe nails. With his hunting
days far behind him, the poodle is strictly
a household pet, which may be one clue as
to his current popularity. The trend in re-
cent years is toward small breeds that go
well with children and small apartments.

The style pendulum has swung 180 de-
grees since the turn of the century, the hey-
day of the big St. Bernard. Outdoor types
dominated the century’s ﬁrst thirty years.
Collies were on top for a decade. After World
War 1 and during the 1920’s the race was
led by the German shepherd, popularized by
the movie star RinTinTin and the breed’s
excellent war record.

The Boston terrier dominated the picture
in the 1930’s when every city family with a
pet had a Boston terrier. The durable, ﬂop-
eared cocker spaniel moved up front in 1940
and remained America’s favorite longer than
any other modern dog, until it was replaced
by the beagle. The cocker owed its popu-
larity in large part to My Own Brucie, a
stylish little cocker spaniel which won Best
in Show at the Westminster Kennel Club
back in 1940 and ’41.

Now twenty years later, two other West-
minster winners may have accounted for the
poodle’s quick rise to popularity. Standard
poodle Ch. Puttencove Promise won Best in
Show in 1958. In 1959 miniature poodle Ch.
Fontclair F estoon walked off with the honors.

Keen observers of the current scene, how-
ever, may place responsibility for the poodle’s
popularity in the hands of “status seekers.”
The breed has become synonymous with up-
per class distinction, and in an era when
everybody has a champagne taste, perhaps
it was inevitable that a dog with “snob
appeal” should come out on top.

 




 

Animals make news
in 1960

£22084
spa , )
{923/

  
 
 

  

The year 1960 was the year in which
“man bites dog” ﬁnally turned up in the
headlines when a London police dog, Laddy,
was bitten on the neck by a convict as he
snoozed on the ﬂoor of the station house.

This topsy-turvy stunt was typical of much
that happened to animals in 1960, a year
notable for the ridiculous and the unexpected.

Animals, for example, had their day
in court. On Long Island a two-year-old
dog named Buddy was sentenced by a judge
to six months in the pen for killing 22 rab-
bits, 12 chickens and a pet kangaroo. Pete,
a forty-year-old parrot was haled into a
Brooklyn court by a woman who said his
language was so vile and abusive that she
had to make a three-block detour every
morning and night to and from work to by-
pass his insults. A Spanish-speaking parrot
from Honduras ended up in the drunk tank
of an Alabama jail.

Flanked by attorneys and her guardian,
a brown mutt named Nosey appeared in a
Detroit court to claim her inheritance of
$80 a month for life left to her by her
master. Her guardian assured the judge that
if Nosey didn’t use the whole 3580, he would
invest the surplus in utility stocks for her.

Mice conspired to plague both cats
and man. A little grey mouse caused pande-
monium among 300 cats by scampering
across the room during a Houston, Texas,
cat show. Mice were blamed for stopping a
railroad in Florence, Italy, by chewing
through the insulation under the signal house

so that all the lights suddenly turned red.

Many dogs got lost, and a few turned
up again. A collie named Lassie turned up
at her former home after a 365-mile journey
which took six months. Honeybell, a four-
year-old missing Basset hound, object of a
widespread search, was tracked down when
she was reported seen in church on Sunday.
In Toledo, Ohio, a dog named Buck got a
telephone call from his former mistress in
Freeport, L. I. When he heard her voice
he sniffed the receiver, bolted out the door
and headed for the Pennsylvania Turnpike.

Dog psychiatrists did a rushing busi-
ness. A Birmingham, England, woman asked
police to ﬁnd her dog who ﬂed in terror
when he saw a mouse. She declared that
when and if her collie Jet was recovered,
she would take him to a psychiatrist.

A four-year-old London boxer who suf-
fered from a persecution complex as a result
of an attack by two other dogs when he was
a puppy showed signs of responding to psy-
chiatric treatment.

Not all dogs were neurotic, however.
One collie named Bryn Hamish received an
honorary degree from a Charleston, West
Virginia, college.

People did funny things in 1960, too.
A 28-year-old biologist received a $50,000
grant from the National Science Foundation
to study the reason why birds sing. The New
Jersey Department of Agriculture reported
the founding of a company to furnish cow-
sitters for dairymen taking vacations.

Someone stole a chimpanzee from the St.
Louis Zoo, leaving a check for $1,000 and
a note which declared that the chimp Was a
sub-human child in need of love and care
and was heartbroken for freedom and atten-
tion. A Washington zoo shipped a collection
of snakes to Dublin, Ireland, in time for
St. Patrick’s Day. In Durham, England, four
men were ﬁned $210 for dyeing a grey
greyhound black to disguise their big money
winnings in the hope of making a killing
with a sleeper named Black Beauty.

A historical year, 1960.

13

 

 

 

 




A Visit with the
Chinook Huskies
by Gladys Chase Gilmore

Sled dog racing is today a popular hobby
and family sport. Under the sponsorship of
the New England Sled Dog Club, many
junior sled dog racing clubs have been or-
ganized. There will be racing meets all
through New Hampshire starting next month.

As many as 250 husky dogs may participate
in a race, all with tails wagging. The dogs
seem to enjoy the friendly competition and
seem to take pride in helping their young
masters make a good showing. The junior
teams are usually made up of two or three
dogs that have been fed and trained by their
young drivers. As in all good dog training,
the dogs are always praised and rewarded
when they do something well.

One of the most famous sled dog kennels
is the Chinook Kennels in Wonalancet, New
Hampshire, which selected and trained Ad-
miral Richard E. Byrd’s sled dogs for his
Little America expedition.

The kennels were named for a famous
husky brought back from the Klondike in
the early days of the gold rush by a man
named Arthur Walden. Walden and his dog
Chinook were inseparable. Chinook was not
only a beloved pet who seemed to read his

 

 

A sled dog team races in a derby in the Lauren-
tian Mountains in Canada.

master’s mind and know what to do without
being told, but he was the leader of all the
other dogs and kept everything under con-
trol. One of his descendants is Walska,
leader of one of today’s racing teams.

The Chinook Kennels are operated by a
Mrs. Seeley, whose love for the dogs is
matched only by their love for her. The care
taken in breeding and feeding is apparent
in the heavier, rougher, brownish-coated
malamutes, the ﬂeeter, black-coated Siberians,
and the eskimos.

The natural intelligence that has enabled
the huskies to perform remarkable feats as
sled dogs in the past now makes them loyal
companions and pets.

 

Dogs at Work
(Continued from page 7 j

clothing, gloves and bags. The ancient
Chinese also ate dogs as medicine. The meat
of yellow-haired dogs was supposed to cure
tuberculosis. Dog hearts were eaten to stop
nose bleed and to cure rheumatism.

The Indians of the Paciﬁc northwest bred
a large white Pomeranian-type dog for its
wool. The ﬂeece, ﬁne and strong, was com-
bined with wild duck down and milkweed
ﬂoss and woven into white blankets of
warmth, lightness and beauty. Scottish wo-
men combine collie and Sheepdog sheddings
with Angora, rabbit and silver fox hair.

Several years ago at one New York ex-
hibit, the Samoyed Club of America pre-
sented a display of articles made from the
hair of their dogs which had been processed,
dyed and then crocheted, knitted, or spun.

In their book “Dogs and People,” George
and Helen Papashvily tell the story of a
woman who had her chow’s sheddings spun
and knitted a cardigan. The garment proved
light and warm, but despite repeated wash-
ings, attracted every dog present to the
wearer. Even the chow found the sweater
a fascinating mystery that required frequent
investigation. Fortunately, before he devel—
oped a split personality, the cardigan wore
out, or more accurately, disintegrated.

15

 

 

 




 

 

Director of Operations Arthur L. Amundsen (left)
presents medals to Royal Danish Ballet members
for saving a dog. Presentation took place back-
stage at the Chicago Opera House.

Ballet dancers cited
for rescue of dog

Four members of the Royal Danish Ballet
were awarded the ASPCA Medal of Honor
and Certiﬁcate of Merit for saving a cocker
spaniel. The rescue took place in Muir
Woods, outside San Francisco, where the
ballet opened its US. tour. Strolling in the
woods, the dancers spotted a car at the base
of a 60-foot embankment. Nimble-footed off-
stage as well as on, they formed a human
chain and spanned the drop. They found
two women and a pet cocker spaniel, all of
whom were brought to safety.

The rescuers were Fleming Flindt, solo
dancer, and troupe members lb Ganderup,
John Barth Jansen and Kort Nielsen.

 

Bronx District Manager N. Michael Bromley pre-
sents award to Bridge Operator Alan Peterson,
who rescued dog he spied swimming below Tri-
borough Bridge.

photo by Thomas R. Koeniges

Bridge operator honored

Alan Peterson, a bridge operator at the
Triborough Lift Span, was cited for rescuing
a dog he spied swimming against the tide
below the bridge. Still wearing his coveralls,
Mr. Peterson clambered down and waded
into water up to his waist. After several
attempts he grabbed the dog, a year-old fe-
male mongrel, and carried it up a 25-foot
ladder to the control room. He dried the dog
off and took it home when he went off duty.
He fed and bathed the animal and kept it
over the week-end. On Monday he took the
animal to the ASPCA Bronx Shelter. A few
days later when no one claimed the dog,
Mr. Peterson adopted it.

 

emergency.

 

NIGHT EMERGENCY SERVICE

The Veterinary Medical Association of New York City is providing
pet owners in Manhattan, Bronx, Brooklyn and Queens with emergency
service from 8 p.m. to 8 a.m. every day. Owners who dial Su 7-1400 will
be given the name and telephone number of a veterinarian on duty in their
borough that night. Owners are requested to call only in cases of real

The ASPCA has offered to participate in the service by having our
Hospital take a turn of night duty. Since several of our veterinarians are
members of the Association, the group is considering our offer. Their
decision is pending as we go to press.

 

 

 




 

courtesy the American Museum 01’ NUIUIGI NISTOI'Y

Dolphins go to the head of the class

A Navy scientist reports that dolphins have a high I . Q., perhaps equal to man’s

Which animal is the smartest? The ele-
phant? The dog? The monkey? This age-
old question, may ﬁnally have been answered.
The dolphin, according to a Naval research
scientist, has an IQ. equal to and even per-
haps superior to man’s.

Studies have established that dolphins can
talk to each other, whistle, sing, mimic a
man’s voice, and will come to each other’s
aid in time of distress. They even apparently
have a sense of humor.

These conclusions were reached by Dr.
John C. Lilly, a neurophysiologist and direc-
tor of the Communications Research Insti-
tute. Under a research grant from the Office
of Naval Research Dr. Lilly has been con-
ducting experiments for the past ﬁve years
in the Virgin Islands to determine the intel-
lectual capabilities of the bottle-nose dolphin.

Brain size and complexity are generally
recognized as an important indication of

10

ability to learn. The ratio of a dolphin’s
brain to its body length is one to 230, as
compared to 250 for man, 190 for a whale,
90 for an elephant and 70 for a gorilla.
Dr. Lilly reported that dolphins converse
among themselves in sharp, high-pitched
whistles which communicate their desires,
summon one another and convey their prob-
lems. Perhaps eventually man will be able
to converse with a dolphin. In one experi-
ment Dr. Lilly spoke to a dolphin. The dol-
phin gave a rapid high-pitched answer which
sounded something like Donald Duck, or a
33 RPM record played at 78. When the tape
was played back at one quarter speed, it
sounded just like Dr. Lilly’s original sentence.
Dolphins travel in large schools off the
Atlantic Coast. A small species of the whale
family, the dolphin is a mammal that several
million years ago in its evolutionary develop-
ment left the land to return to the sea.

The playboy of the sea, the dolphin is an
age-old friend of mariners. With its antics
and friendliness, it probably fascinated the
world’s ﬁrst sailors. It has been famous in
folklore ever since, and is even associated
with Scriptural events.

According to one interpretation, the dol-
phin owes its origin to Pharaoh’s forces that
perished in the Red Sea pursuing the Israel-
ites. South American dolphins occupy the
same place in folklore as the Lorelei does in
Europe. Natives believe it takes on the shape
of a woman and perambulates the river banks.

Some legends may not be so groundless
after all. Stories of a dolphin befriending a
drowning person and attempting to save his
life have been reported from many parts of
the world. Now Dr. Lilly reports that two
injured dolphins were helped by their bud-
dies who lifted them to the surface so they
could breathe.

One story told by a Roman writer involves
a school boy and a dolphin which came to
the surface whenever the boy called and
carried the boy across the water on his back
to school and home again. Today, at Marine-
land, Florida, a bottlenosed dolphin pulls a
surfboard in a lagoon, giving free rides to a
girl and a dog.

Other dolphins at Marineland have been
taught to leap 15 feet into the air to seize
a baton. They “sing,” jump through paper
hoops, throw and catch forward passes with
a football and shoot for the basket. The
psychologist who trained the dolphins for
Marineland says they are intelligent, friendly,
playful, bright and very rewarding to work
with.

This amazing animal can swim up to 30
miles an hour. A submarine or boat of its
size would need 30 to 200 “porpoise power”

(Continued on page 19)

11

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

Mﬁmﬂzeiaﬁiﬁmﬁéaiﬁaﬁ
Stewart’s (lirwﬁnga

“A Friend"

 

MONARCH CARTING CO.
406 E. IIOth St., N. Y. C. Le 4-3493

 

CODAY FARMS, INC.
430 E. 108th St., N. Y. C. Le 4-7300

 

F. M. CONCANNON
1287 New York Ave., Huntington, St., L. I.
Hamilton 3-2450

 

JOSEPH FARENGA & SONS, INC.
343 E. 116th St., N. Y. C. Le 4-7600

 

FENIMORE SCHOOL OF HORSEMANSHIP
240 E. 20th St., N. Y. C. Gr 7-9327

 

KAPNAG HEATING 8. PLUMBING CORP.
326 E. 9Ist St. N. Y. C. At 9-8847

 

KEEFE & KEEFE AMBULANCE SERVICE
429 E. 75th St., N. Y. C. Yu 8-8800

 

LONG FRENCH BAKERS
1042 Madison Ave., N. Y. C. Bu 8-7880

 

MARBLE HILL CREMATORY FOR
PET ANIMALS, INC.

418 W. 219th St., N. Y. C. Lo 7-3800
Prepare for the loss of your beloved pet
Call or write for Booklet “A"
Visitors Welcome

 

L. MONTANTI & SONS
I939 Richmond Terrace, Port Richmond, 5. I.
Gi 2-1894
Riding Apparel

 

NYCONN HORSE TRANSPORTATION
50 Purdy Ave., White Plains, N. Y. Wh 8-5896

 

N. Y. FEDERAL SAVINGS 8. LOAN ASS’N.
1270 Lexington Ave., N. Y. C. En 9-2400

 

NEW YORKER AUTOMOBILE CO.
élst St. 8. Ist Ave., N. Y. C. Te 8-7766

 

QUALITY AUTO SERVICE
422 E. 92nd St., N. Y. C. At 9-5539

 

STEVE TEMMEL
Furniture Refinishing
I799 Ist Ave., N. Y. C. 50 2-2930

anarnwarmswsw

 

 

APPEAL PRIVILEGE DENIED

The Appellate Division of the
State Supreme Court on October
27 denied the Vivisection Investi-
gation League the privilege of
appealing a decision of the State
Supreme Court that the ASPCA

is entitled to use its name.

The Vivisection Investigation
League had challenged the Soci-
ety’s right to use its name on the
ground that the ASPCA furnished
animals to laboratories for med-
ical experiments (in accordance
with the Metcalf Hatch Law). It
contended that this constituted
cruelty to animals and that there-
fore the ASPCA’s title was fraud-
ulent. On May 25 the State
Supreme Court dismissed the case
and on September 28 the Appel-
late Division upheld the Supreme
Court’s decision.

The League still has the right to
go directly to the Court of Ap-
peals. But the Court of Appeals
rarely overrules a decision by the
Appellate Division.

 

 

 

 

 

A STILL SMALL VOICE

The ASPCA recently received a
check for $100. Clipped to it was
a card hearing this poignant testa-
monial to the joy a pet can bring:

“Memorial for Daisy—a dumb,
dirty, bedraggled, but loving and
lovable dog.”

 

 

Dolphins
(Continued from page 11 )

for this speed. A dolphin uses sonar to navi-
gate where it can’t see and distinguishes
different kinds of ﬁsh by sound alone much

better than any man-made sonar.

The Navy is interested in the dolphin as
part of its study of the complex mechanics
used by some animals for communication,
navigation and selecting a target. The Navy
hopes the study will lead to improved man-
made devices. But with all its abilities, the
dolphin may eventually be taught to help
man in the sea as the dog has on land——
in ﬁsh-herding, underwater exploration, sea
rescue and the retrieving of sunken objects.

19

 

 




 

 

 

I
No am
Last year 32

9

of these were ch

547 ani

arlty

provided the care these pati
Your Christmas gift t
may save an animal’

mals were treated i
C
s II

cases —— the owners
ents needed

nth

e ASP
being

5 ever turned away

It need of care i

o the ASPCA H

I,
a
I...
o
m
o
J
J
o
M

ospi

CA Hospi

tal and Cli

[/Jﬁmanow. x
rfﬁu. I

tal and Clinic today

too poor to pay. Youncontrih

(3. About 12,000

ution

 




