 

Nov. 1934
The Bird of God

CHRIS. SEWELL

HEN a robin hops out at me from a\

near-by bush, with its minute tweet
of welcome, I feel a sudden urge towards
belief in a pre-existence. What but some
age-old camaraderie—some remote favor
given or received, accounts for its instinc-
tive affection for man? For it is a most
surprising and constant affection. Men and
women are a real thrill to it. It cannot
resist them.

Lay yourself out to attract these genial
creatures, and they will enter your house,
join you at your meals, build their nests in
the most preposterous and frequented places
and, in a word, become members of the
family.

* >i< *

From earliest days in many countries
robins have ﬁgured prominently in folk
lore and legends, but their behavior was
not always legendary—often it was founded
on fact. Take, for example, the “Babes in
the Wood.” It may not be generally known
that this incident is said actually to have
occurred in Norfolk, England, somewhere
about 1595. In any case there is nothing
fantastic to me in the idea that when
those two tragic children lay down in the
tractless forest to die, a robin redbreast
should, to the best of its tiny ability, per-
form the last sad ofﬁce.

And even before the “Babes in the Wood”
was written the idea that robins will do all
they can to cover a lost and unburied corpse
received credence—particularly in France
and Germany; whilst Drayton, an old Eng-
lish poet, endorsed the notion when he
wrote,

“Covering with moss the deads’ nnclosed
eye
The little redbreast teacheth Charitie.”
* * *

Then what could be more touching and
beautiful than the Christ legends which
enshrine this little creature?

When the Divine sufferer was raised to
the Cross, a magpie (in those days a very
peacock of gay colors) mocked at Him, but
a humble brown bird drew timidly near,
uttering plaintive cries of pity. With her
Wings she wiped the tears from those
sacred eyes, and with her wee beak attacked
the thorns. A drop of blood fell upon her,
coloring her breast, and Christ named her
in gratitude the Bird of God. She was to
be the bearer of joy, but the magpie he
doomed to perpetual mourning.

* * >l<

Without doubt here, in the British Isles,
the robin is the most popular of all the
feathered world. He is an adventurer in
its most charming sense—running risks to
be near his adored ‘humans.’

Well might the birds of the air “fall
a-singing and a-sobbing when they heard
of the death of poor Cock Robin”—I should
do the same. I like, as I hinted at the be-
ginning of this article, to feel that there
is some psychic afﬁnity between us.

I want, when I meet a robin, to say with
Shakespeare,

“Hereafter in a better world than this
I shall desire more love and knowledge of
you.”
Perhaps I shall get it. Who knows?

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Page 167

Guarding Our Feathered Friends

FRANK YEIGH

ONTRARY to common belief, Govern-
C ments have a heart—sometimes. One

of the best proofs of this is the co-
operation of the United States and Canada
in safeguarding and protecting the wild
birds of these countries; indeed, saving
some of the species from threatened ex-
tinction.

This is the story in brief: a few years
ago these neighboring countries, through
their respective governments, passed the
Migratory Birds Convention Act as an in-
ternational example of co-operation. Under

W, .. ......

 

trespasses into the back yard of a gannet,
or a pufﬁn poaches on the preserve of an
auk. Then there is trouble that is audible
even to the distant mainland. At other
times the whole bird population is strange-
ly agitated into wild cries in advance of
a storm. They beat the weather man by
hours in their storm predictions.

A short distance away rises the bulkier
mass of Bonaventure, which probably har-
bors the largest population of sea fowl of
any sanctuary, at least in Canada.

It is a wonderful sight to view the steep

 

MURRES AND CORMORANTS NESTING ON ISLAND IN GULF OF

ST. LAWRENCE

its provisions each country has set apart
bird reserves as sanctuaries for the broad-
winged creatures, where they can live their
appointed lives and reproduce, under safe
conditions, their kind. The results are al-
ready more than satisfactory in conserving
the many varieties of wild fowl.

Few who are not bird experts or lovers
realize how many varieties there are in
existence of wild fowl—such as gannets or
solan geese, murres, razor-billed auks, puf-
ﬁns, black guillemots, petrels, herring gulls,
kittiwake gulls and I know not how many
other subdivisions, making a truly diversi-
ﬁed family. And there are to be added the
prairie chickens of the western plains, as
well as ducks, brant, rails, coots, shore
birds, waders, with scores of other types
all claiming an equal right to life and es-
cape from the guns and traps of human
marauders.

Come with me in imagination to a couple
of sample sanctuaries in Canada. In the
center of the Bay of Chaleur, off the Gulf
of St. Lawrence, lie the isles of Perce and
Bonaventure. These are among the scores
of bird centers speciﬁcally mentioned under
this international protection.

Perce Rock or the Pierced Rock—famous
for its dramatic size and position, is in-
habited by countless thousands of birds of
many species who live on the lofty roof of
the big Rock in more or less amity. They
have this upper surface divided into areas,
where each type has its own domain and
where all is peaceful until a cormorant

cliffs of Bonaventure. Ledge after ledge
leading to the summit is occupied with bird
families and homes, from the nesting moth-
ers to the freer males cleaving the clear
air with their pliant wings. No wonder the
airmen have from the start studied the
wings of a bird as the basis of their ﬂight
of he-avier-than-air machines. In the
ﬂights of the birds over Bonaventure, when
alarmed, the sky is almost darkened by the
myriads until the clamor subsides and qulet
is restored.

Another picturesque Canadian sanctuary
is Great Bird Rock of the Gulf of St. Law-
rence where the bird population shares the
lonely pile with a trio of lighthouse keep-
ers. When Jacques Cartier sailed past the
place, four centuries ago, he wrote 1n.his
diary that “the rock and its lesser neigh-
bors were covered with more birds than a
meadow with grass,” and Champlain, near-
ly a century later, noticed that vessels sail-
ing by the islands sent their boats ashore 1n
calm weather, killing a great number of
birds with sticks. There is no such wanton
destruction on Great Bird Rock now. No
one dares to molest its myriads of wild life.
It is a matter of great satisfaction that two
great nations should thus join hands, or
laws rather, in giving millions of wild birds
their right to live.

It is a good rule to sojourn in every place
you visit, as though you .meant to spend
your life there, never om1tt1ng an oppor-
tunity of doing a kindness. RUSKIN

ﬁ _ 7 ‘ “ 4.2. "‘ ' :“ “NULL-" ”2.; "I.-.:_';'.;.." M_. n. . ._ H 1' . . ,
' m g med-31': . . .-‘-. . WSW”; . .p—un‘ra Jag—:m‘ffﬁ'y W: 2", AA

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

May, 1931;
The Cardinal in the Dog-

wood Tree

CATHERINE CATE COBLENTZ

Is it subtle choice or purest chance
That makes you choose the blossoming
branch
Of the whitest ﬂowers for your crimson
glory,
While over and over you ripple the story :—
“O, Vury, vury, vury, vury
Purty, party, party!”

Pretty yourself; 0h, very, very,
Your breast as rich as an autumn berry,
From ruby beak to ﬂaming wing
Posed in the loveliest tree of spring
“0, Vury, vury, vury, vury
Purty, purty, purty!”

The Knowing Pike

Editor, Our Dumb Animals :—

Here is a little (true) incident that re-
curs to my mind, that you are at liberty
to use if you care to. ,

Some years ago when a resident of Wor-
cester one of the pleasantest of that city’s
several parks had been in times past a great
private estate, with an interesting old man-
sion and hundreds of acres of hill, lake,
gardens, etc. The lake was thickly popu—
lated with enormous pike. It used to amuse
me to toss into the water an entire loaf
of bread, and watch the greedy and fat ﬁsh
pile up'three deep about it, many of them
throwing themselves clean out of the water.
In a short time the bread would disappear
to the last crumb; but at ﬁrst, and before
any pike had succeeded in nibbling the
hard crust, the loaf of bread would be
tossed about like a football.

The city park commission saw that the
pike were fed regularly, and the ﬁsh also
fared well at the hands of picnickers. But
the pike increased to such an extent that
they had to be thinned out. Therefore the
Directors of Green Hill Park voted that on
one day a week, on Thursday, anybody was
at liberty to ﬁsh or cast nets from the
shore line. The ﬁsh were not welcomed by
the connoisseurs of good food, but many of
the foreign born in the colonies, took ad-
vantage of the permission and went home
with burlap bags full of fat pike.

Presently a strange thing was noted,
that belongs to that endless dispute: do
animals reason? For although on every
other day the pike were present in great
numbers, and as voracious as ever, on
Thursdays they retired one and all to the
depths of the upper lake and refused all
lures! Now it may be argued that these
canny ﬁsh noticed the poles and nets of the
ﬁshermen, and came to associate these im-
plements with disaster; but the fact re-
mains that, as the caretakers assure-d me,
the pike invariably retired on every Thurs-
day morning before the ﬁshermen arrived!
They did not reappear until Friday morn.

Just how did these pike know when
Thursday came around? I have often won-
dered about it. JOHN D. SWAIN

The old lady placed a very small portion
of honey on the plate of the new hired man.

“I see you keep a bee, ma’am,” he ob-
served politely. ~

 

OUR DUMB ANIAIALS

HOmeless Birds
WALLACE PATCH

OLLOWING the widespread removal

of old and decayed apple trees by
C. W. A. workers during the past winter,
New England bird lovers are faced with an
emergency demanding immediate attention
and co-operation. A, conservative estimate
indicates that more than 200,000 such valu-

able annual visitors as woodpeckers, blue-i

birds, tree swallows and wrens are return-
ing this spring to ﬁnd themselves destitute
of their accustomed nesting places.

Of" course no such unfortunate result was
contemplated by the individuals pushing
this program. The basic intent of annihilat-
ing insect breeding places and at the same
time providing ﬁrewood for those who
needed it by clearing away old orchards
was commendable in so far as it went. How-
ever, when we pause to consider that a large
proportion of the trees destroyed repre-
sented homes for our most dependable in-
sect-eating birds, it appears that the move
is apt to defeat itself unless appropriate
substitute nesting places are provided.

Looking ﬁrst at available statistics, we
ﬁnd that nearly 10,000 old orchards have
been cleaned up in Massachusetts alone. If
we take the low ﬁgure of only 30 old trees
per orchard, we get the staggering total of
300,000 potential nesting places. Suppose,
then, that only one third of these would
surely be occupied and we ﬁnd that at least
200,000 birds (one pair to a nest) will be
forced to desert their accustomed haunts.

From the point of View of bird lovers
this situation presents an obvious appeal.
We all know that birds accustomed to rais-

 

 

Courtesy N. Y. Zoological Society

THE CHIMPANZEE—RATED FIRST
AMONG ANIMALS ON A GRADUATED
SCALE OF INTELLIGENCE, BY DR. W.
REID BLAIR, DIRECTOR OF THE NEW
YORK ZOOLOGICAL SOCIETY

 

Page 71

ing their young in hollow trees will not take
to building hanging nests where they ﬁnd
no hollow trees available. They will pass by
our grounds and keep going until they ﬁnd
the type of home they want and need. Many
of them, to be sure, may be induced to
linger with us if we put up the right kind
of nesting boxes, such as those installed at
well-known bird sanctuaries.

Disinterested property owners, too, can
readily be induced to help if appealed to on
the basis of protecting their trees, ﬂowering
shrubs, plants and vegetables from the
horde of insects which will certainly do
great injury unless the blue-birds, wood-
peckers, etc., are on hand to attack the
pests. As an example of this line of rea-
soning, one might point to the fact that
cranberry bog owners, having long since
realized the necessity of controlling insects
with birds, have placed hundreds of houses
about their bogs.

However we look at it, we are confronted
with a problem which might well reach men-
acing proportions. So why not help these
birds and, in so doing, help ourselves and
our neighbors?

Three Unfortunate Birds

WILL HERMAN

HE great auk, the albatross and the

' frigate bird of the West Indies are 1n
grave danger of becoming extinct because
of their development which is suited for the
Stone Age—but not for the age of Man.

The great auk, through the course of
years, has changed his wings into paddles—-
but man in his row-boats and steamboats
and guns is far too fast for this unfortunate
creature. These auks are killed in great
quantities every year, and their number 1s
becoming distressingly small.

The albatross is a gliding bird, but in the
course of years, it has sacriﬁced too much
of its muscular power. The wings have
been pointed and elongated to a dangerous
degree. For this reason, they are unable to
get up enough speed to clear certam ob-
stacles when the warning comes too late.

For example, a regular death-trap for
the unfortunate albatross is a valley end-
ing in a cliff wall on the Australian Coast.
Here the albatross is a common bird. When
ﬂying through this region, the bird often
dips low into the valley and suddenly ﬁnds
itself in a position of having to clear thls
high stone wall—0r else.

It is a case of “or else,” for the bird, try
as it will, cannot clear the wall in the short
distance left, a head on collision takes
place—and the bird falls to the earth,
there to be killed by some prowling beast
or to starve to death! .

And the frigate-bird has developed .1ts
Wings so that they are out of all proportlon
to its body. The bird frequently alrghts on
trees, misses its footing, slips, and In beat-
ing its wings wildly, either breaks them,
catches them in forks or gets entangled a1-
together. Here its fate again 1s one of
either starvation or death by another
forest creature.

We, in the littleness of our power, can
do nothing for the albatross or the frigate-
bird. But we can save the auk by throwmg
away our guns, which, needless to say,
would be a blessing to many other crea-

tures.




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

 

 

 

 

 

gﬂ/Iﬁ » sexlwﬂ/gf/MW

ﬂing, “Mix/V67 M///gf/%Aﬂ%

 

4 I,
ma

{/36 ”

 

Jenny Wren
ELLA C. FORBES

Here’s little Jenny all so sweet,
In natty suit of brown;

She’s quite a social figure
In the whirl of Feather Town.

Her home is all a home should be;
A model nest—but then,

You’d never ﬁnd it otherwise
With little Jenny Wren.

Serene and stout, she hops about,
A worthy little birdie,
And if her children favor her
They should be plump and sturdy.

Her eyes are clear and quick and bright,
Her neatness an obsession,

For nothing’s e’ver out of place
With Jenny in possession.

The Little Friend of All the World

[TH regard to the habits and disposition of the female

milch goat, much may be said in her favor. With her
face and dress always neat, she is the tidiest and daintiest
eater of the animal family. She is very particular about her
food and will eat nothing that is soiled or tainted. When pas—
tured she delights in picking a morsel here and there, changing
from grass to the sweet tender shoots of weeds and bushes, and
nipping off the tender buds and leaves of young trees. A grown
animal, while browsing, will sometimes stand erect and nip a
leaf six feet from the ground.

The milch goat is gentle, playful and intelligent, and the
readiness with which she accommodates herself to any situa-
tion in which she may be placed is most remarkable. Whether
turned loose on a common, or out in a yard, or tethered on a
grass-plot with a “lean-to” for a shelter, or conﬁned in a stable
and stall-fed, she seems equally content and grateful for the
very few favors she usually receives.

F"

 

A LITTLE FRIEND OF THE SILKY FLEECE

\fr/

Foster Mothers to a Robin

RALPH T. CASE

A BOUT a year ago, some boys brought a tiny robin to a
friend of mine. Not having the time to give the baby bird
proper care, she was on her way to rel-ease it in the yard with
the faint hope that it might be able to survive, when I offered
to provide foster mothers for the feathered orphan. My two
daughters of seven and
ten were very willing to
sanction my action, hav—
ing happy memories of a
similar experience several
years earlier.

A cage-home Was pro-
vided where the baby
robin could be comfort-
able on a perch between
meals. Then food was
the constant quest of the
whole household, for the
robin ate at half—hour
intervals. Fishworms and
tiny strips of liver, camou—
ﬂaged as. worms, helped
to satisfy the enormous
appetite of the star board-
er. Also bread soaked in
sour milk seemed to quali—
fy instead of worms when
necessary.

After a couple of weeks
of feeding by hand, it was
a great day for all when RUTH CASE FEEDING THE
the robin was taken out ROBIN
into the garden and placed
on the ground near a wriggling, luscious worm. For a moment
the bird eyed it, little head cocked to one side, then a quick
pounce and the worm was gone. The robin’s saucy air
seemed to indicate a new-found sense of independence. For
two or three days the garden cafeteria service continued for
part of the meals, then to the dismay of the foster mothers, the
cocky little robin ﬂew off to a near-by tree. The next evening
the orphan tried his wings again, and the two girls went to
bed at last, feeling that their little charge was indeed grown up.
A hard rain blew up late that evening, dashing and beating
with fury. All the household worried as to the fate of the
little waif in the storm. The father of the family went out at
ten-thirty, just to see if perchance some sign of the little
truant might be evident. And the ﬁrst beam of the flashlight,
directed to the ground under a dripping tree, revealed perky
Master Robin, knee deep in water, waiting hopefully for
rescue. Hustled to Warmth and dryness within, he was soon
comfortable and none the worse for wear.

For a couple of days the foster mothers watched more closely
their ambitious little charge, then away ﬂew the adventurer
never to return. While there was real sense of loss at his
departure, two girls felt sure that he was able to fend for
himself.

Never tease or torment a dog. It is likely to make him ill-
tempered. If you treat a dog well, he is one of the best friends
you can have.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

th.1934

Your Pet and Your Temper
L. E. EUBANKS

GIRL who clerks in a department store
A was heard to say that she dare not
have a pet of any kind because she always
lost patience and abused the animal.

I did not hear the remark, but I intend
sometime to ask that girl how she gets
along with the human animals whom she
waits on every day. She deals with particu-
lar women every hour of her work, a class
of customers who grow peevish very easily
and say many vexatious things.

But the clerk has endured it for years.
Her job depends on it, and remembering
this gives her self-control. When that same
person vows that she cannot hold her
temper in dealing with a dumb animal, she
should say, instead, that she does not try.
Either a temper is uncontrollable or it is not.

There are very few excuses for loss of
temper, very few occasions when reason
actually forsakes us. A man who was sup-
posed to be insanely furious when he drank
was whipping his dog. A smaller man pro-
tested—and was ruthlessly knocked down.
Then a big, powerful fellow steppe-d up and
told the “furious” drunk man to behave
himself. One look at the husky chap, and
the bad man’s ferocity ebbed away.

Analyzed, the inclination to ﬂy to pieces
with dumb animals is a decidedly ugly trait
of character. Really, we should be more

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

patient with our pets than with our human
friends—if we have to lose our poise at all.
The spirit of fairness is a part of real char-
acter, and it surely is less unfair to ﬁght
with an opponent who is armed as we are
than to abuse a defenseless creature.

Don’t vent your ill temper on your pet. If
you cannot control outbursts of rage, you’re
ill, mentally or physically, and you should
not have a pet. But if you control anger
successfully among human associates, you
can do so with dumb animals.

A splendidly effective lesson in kindness
to animals came under my observation when
I was eighteen years old. I was visiting a
chum when, against my protestation, he
whipped his half-grown puppy severely.
Later, the puppy attacked a grown dog,
and the latter refused to ﬁght the youngster,
whom he could easily have killed in a few
moments.

My friend’s face ﬂushed, as I looked at
him signiﬁcantly. “You used your superior
strength and power,” I remarked, “but that
dog is a better sportsman.”

Not once during the next ten years of my
association with that young man did he ever
lose his temper with a dumb animal. It may
hurt the pride of some folks, but human
beings are not superior in everything by
any means.

In making your will, please remember
the Massachusetts Society for the Preven-
tion of Cruelty to Animals.

 

AT THE HORSES’ CHRISTMAS TREE, BOSTON, MASS.

Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke (right),
(left), vice-president, of the Women’s Auxil
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, assisting
the annual distribution of free Christmas
apples, corn, and carrots in generous portio

president, and Mrs. Arthur W. Hurlburt
iary of the Massachusetts Society for the

at the feeding of hundreds of horses at

dinners by the Mass. S. P. C. A. Oats,
ns are fed to wOrk horses on the streets,

in the market district, and at stables. Hot coffee, sandwiches and doughnuts are
served to their drivers. From platform trucks, with decorated Christmas trees and
drawn by some of Boston’s ﬁnest horses, the distribution is made in the presence of
thousands who heartily subscribe to this Yuletide demonstration of kindness to
animals. This popular, humane holiday observance is a feature presented by the

Society for the past eighteen years.

Page 23
A-Hunting We Will Go

CARROLL VAN COURT

I love to go a-hunting, for I think it’s
splendid sport;
I always take my shooter out with me.
I stalk my victims cleverly, of every size
and sort,
As I approach their hiding-place with
glee.

I may be after pheasants, or a peacock, or a
quail, ‘
Or I may be a—scouting for a moose;
I very seldom miss my shots, and hardly
ever fail;
I’m smart as any Nimrod on. the loose.

I even pick on does and fawns, and buck
deer are my meat,
I hunt from early morn till setting sun;
To shoot a helpless animal, to me is just a
treat,
I shoot ’em with a kodak—not a gun!

Successful Auxiliary Fair

ANY compliments are being received

by the ofﬁcers of the Women’s Auxili-
ary of the Massachusetts S. P. C. A. for the
very attractive and successful Fair held on
December 14 last at the Copley-Plaza Hotel,
Boston. The large sales room presented a
gala appearance with its numerous tables
and booths ﬁlled with choice articles to
tempt Christmas buyers, while tasteful
decorations and the colorful costumes worn
by some of the attendants pleased the eye.

Among the unusual features was an
Italian organ grinder, in the person of
Miss Margaret Reader Martin, accompanied
by Mrs. Mary Nevery who collected coins
in her tambourine after singing alluring
songs. A fashion review, in which were
shown up-to-date sport clothes for golf,
ﬁshing, riding, etc., and imported knitted
models, was in charge of Mrs. William J.
Underwood, the participants being Misses
Deborah Root, Harriett Hayward and Sally
Freeman. Futures were told by Mrs. M.
F. Herbertt in the person of Mme. Zenda.
The afternoon bridge was held under the
supervision of Mrs. Arthur W. Hurlburt.

For the ﬁrst time the newly appointed

Junior Auxiliary, consisting of Misses Sus- '

annah Ayer, Agnes Osborne, Nancy Moller,
Marjorie English, Lois Swan, Joanna Pal-
frey, Betty Farley, Martha Rogerson and
Laura Robbins, aided in serving the lunch
and tea.

The patronesses were Mrs. Joseph B. Ely,
Mrs. Channing H. Cox, Mrs. Alvan T. Ful-
ler, Mrs. Harold Donham, Mrs. Charles M.
Baker, Mrs. Frank P. Bennett, Mrs. Homer
Gage, Mrs. A. L. West Movius, Mrs. Charles
F. Bancroft, Miss Eleanora Sears, Mrs.
William J. Underwood, Mrs. John E. Wash-
burn, Mrs. Florence Dibble, Mrs. Richard
E. Danielson, and Mrs. Philip L. Saltonstall.

Through these columns Mrs. Edith Wash-
burn Clarke, president, Mrs. A. J. Furbush,
treasurer, and all the other ofﬁcers of the
Auxiliary, to whom great credit is due, wish
to express their thanks to all who ass1sted
in any way, either by contributlons of fame
and service or of merchandise and money,
in making possible the substantial sum
which was realized for the beneﬁt of the
Angel] Memorial Animal Hospital.

 

 




.‘é.::~ " ‘

The American Ofﬁcers of Both Societies The Massachusetts Society f

d S DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President FOR THE l

Humane E ucatlon oaety GUY RICHARDSON 3......ry . .,
- ’ Irn ls !

ALBERT A. P()LLARD, Treasurer if PreventionOF cruelty EDA" a '

Counsel, PEABODY, BROW’N, ROWLEY & ST()REY

 
  

Angeli Memorial Animal Hospital

Operated by the Massachusetts S. P. C. A.

Our Dumb Animals -

Founded by CEO. T. ANGELL in 1868

 
  

n7
1.
m
PEACE ON EARTH, a)
Kmouass, JUSTICE
AND Mencv TO
Evasv LIVING
Cnenuae.

u a .4;

‘ "- ad“. “Us A A
‘ ”a: . - -‘ f- .,,_ _, ;_4_.‘ gm _' - “.44.
we“ . “gem-,isn ._—_ A g- V H s r A A . A A A .

  
     

 

r
'.-_,. z s: _

Ollicial organ of all our Societies

170-184 Longwood Avenue, Boston
\

egg: ‘

«um ’ ' " emigrate: #5417"

 

 

:45:

Springﬁeld Branch, 53-57 Bliss Street, Springﬁeld, Mass.

 

Trustees of Permanent Funds of Both Societies
JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First of Boston Corp.

J‘s-ME

CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-Pres., United Shoe Machinery Corp.
PHILIP STOCKTON. President, First National Bank of Boston '

The Societies have had bequests from one thousand one hundred and nine deceased
friends. The Societies are supported by gifts, memberships and legacies.

The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals has fourteen
prosecuting officers throughout the State. ‘

RATES OF MEMBERSHIP IN EACH SOCIETY—Active Life, $100; Associate Life, $50;

i
Sustaining Annual, $20; Active Annual, $10; Associate Annual, $5; Annual, $1.
Children’s $0.75.

All members receive OUR DUMB ANIMALS Free.

 

The Massachusetts S. P. C. A. is greatly in need of funds for the extension of its general work,
especially throughout the country districts of the state where cruelt

than in the cities, particularly in the failure properly to feed and h

 

y exists to a degree greater even
ouse domestic animals. '

. The reader’s attention is particularly called to the work of the Angeli Memorial Animal
Hospital and Dispensary, opened March 1, 1915. A branch of this institution was opened at

53:57 Bliss Street, Springfield, Mass., in December, 1931. Altogether we have treated 418,549
animals, 125,065 in the Hospital and 293,484 in the Dispensary.

 

 

 




 

 

Aug. 1931,

A Canine Letter Carrier
J. L. CONSIDINE

NE carrier of Uncle Sam’s mail who

will have no trouble about the validity
of his contract or alleged overcharges is
“Watty,” the twenty-six months old St. Ber-
nard dog who is the bearer of letters and
papers from La Porte, California, to the
Bunker Hill mine, fourteen miles away.

La Porte is one of the oldest mining
camps in California, one of the few ghost
cities of the days of Forty-nine with inhabi-
tants enough to rate a post oﬁﬁice. It is in
Plumas County, one of the northwestern
counties, and hence in the Sierra Nevada
mountains, .where the snow is deep in winter.

The Bunker Hill mine is in an even more
inaccessible location, so inconveniently situ-
ated that once the winter sets in travel be—
tween there and La Porte is anything but
an agreeable thing. Watty doesn’t mind the
snow—that indifference is a trait inherited
from his Swiss ancestors—so for several
months in the year he is the principal link
in communications between the mine and
La Porte.

Watty is owned by Fulton W. COpp of the
Sierra Nevada Mining Corporation. There
are rough- and smooth-coated St. Bernards,
and he is of the smooth-coated variety. The
two varieties, except for length of hair, are
identical. The original St. Bernards, as

‘ bred at the Hospice of St. Bernard in the

Swiss Alps, are of the smooth-coat type,
and snow is less bothersome to them.

Like the famous Swiss dog, Watty carries
a brandy keg in his trips over the snow.
The keg is a present from Fulton Watson,
of Beverly Hills, California, after whom
the dog is named. It was imported from
Switzerland and holds one liter of Cali—
fornia brandy. The idea is that Watty may
some day come across a wayfarer lost in
the snow, whose life the brandy may be
the means of saving.

Watty starts on his fourteen-mile trip to
La Porte every Saturday at 6.30 in the
morning. His lunch and the outgoing mail
are strapped to his back. All roads are
closed and skis are the only other means of
transportation. The mine is at an elevation
of 6,200 feet, and the trip to La Porte, all
down hill, is made by Watty in about three
hours.

Watty is a favorite in La Porte and often
visits several of his friends there. After
a rest and lunch, and as soon as the mail
that has been two days on the way from
Marysville has been sorted, Watty is again
packed and ready for the return. This
trip calls for a 1,600 foot climb in four-
teen miles. The return trip usually takes
six hours, but once, in a blizzard, it took
twenty-two.

Life for Watty is not all work. He spends
much time in being scratched and absorb-
ing heat and enormous quantities of food.
He is quite a practical joker and When the
Sunday afternoon ski parties are taking
place he enjoys himself hugely, tripping up
everyone he can.

He weighs 165 pounds and is 34 inches
tall. He has made four trips by train to
Los Angeles, away at the other end of the
state, and has been a guest of the navy
aboard the U. S. S. Dallas.

Do not fail to provide plenty of fresh
water for your animals in hot weather.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Page 119

 

Cats as I Know Them

FLORENCE TUCKER OSMUN

LIKE animals. As George Eliot said:

“Animals pass no criticisms and ask no

questions.” Probably that’s why they ap-
peal! I am, however, particularly fond of
cats, and I’m not an old maid either! It
may be that because I am of a turbulent
nature myself I ﬁnd the cat my talis-
man of tranquility. Cats somehow sense
the fact that I am their friend. It has been
proved. In a room full of people a cat has
entered, made a mental survey, and prompt—
ly walked over and settled itself upon my
lap. It knew it was welcome. Cats are
selective.

I am never without a tabby. As I sit
here writing, my favorite “Old Gray” re-
poses on my desk. I’ve had him for years.
He is my inspiration, and I really think
he considers himself the mascot of my en—
deavors. Furthermore, he never upsets my
ink bottle, nor sets pens and pencils rolling
down the desk to the ﬂoor. He ﬁnds his
place with one graceful leap, and then sits
poised and beautiful like the great stone
lions in front of the New York public
library. '

Cats lazy, you say? Well, perhaps. I
must confess I once saw mine indifferently
watching the mice play. I did hold it up
against him just a bit but I rather like to
think that he is a patriotic cat and works
under the big N. R. A., taking proper time
off. I saw an expression on his face that
day as much as to say, “Go as far as you
like, I’m off duty.”

Cats have strong emotions. Particularly
jealousy. One time a stray feline arrived at
my door, bringing with it a tiny new-born
kitten, which it deposited beside my kitchen
range. Presently she returned with three
more, and before I knew it, I had a whole
family of cats to house! I hadn’t the heart
to turn them away. They looked so helpless.
Very well. But Old Gray objected, and after
inspecting the intruders, promptly made a
quick, indignant exit. He did not come
home for two long months. I was desper-
ately unhappy about it. At the end of that
time, he stalked in one day, marched up to
my room, greeted me warmly, and then pro-
ceeded to the kitchen. He viewed conditions,
and upon observing that his rightful place
was still usurped, immediately disappeared
with a chip on his shoulder for two more
months. I was too late to overtake him, but

made up my mind then and there to part
with Old Gray’s rival and her kittens, which
I did. Soon after, he returned and curled
up contentedly on the hearth. He has never
left me since.

In a rating of creatures on a graduated
scale, the cat has been placed tenth in an
intelligence appraisal. It is smart enough
to suit me, however, and I prefer it to other
animals as a pet whose intelligence quotient
is greater—particularly the chimpanzee or
elephant! Cats are intuitive. Listen to this. A
cat I owned one time named “Mittens” (be-
cause the end of each paw was snow-white)
would always warn me of serious danger by
parading across my chest if I were asleep
or lying down, to attract my attention. One
particular experience stands out in memory.
At two o’clock one morning, I was aroused
suddenly, having a sensation of depression.
Upon opening my eyes, I beheld Mittens
parading across my chest. “What’s up?” I
asked anxiously. She led me downstairs.
To my horror, I could plainly see that my
rooms had been thoroughly ransacked——
everything topsy-turvy—and, as I glanced
at my library window, I was terror stricken
to see two thieves making a hasty retreat!
I gave my pussy an extra portion of liver
folr his time-1y warning.

When I went to Europe, I recall that as
we walked down the gang-plank there
darted in and out between eve-ryone’s legs a
large and shiny black cat. It went some—
where. Nobody saw or cared just where,
nor paid any attention to the scurrying
feline. But when the steamer was about to
start on its return trip, the very same cat
was on hand at the appointed time, and
wormed its way up the gang-plank, as if it
had engaged passage like the rest. The pur-
ser told me afterward that this was a regu-
lar occurrence and that the black cat had
been present on every trip, and, what’s
more, was never late! I like the routine and
punctuality of cats.

Some one has said, “The cat—he is no-
body’s slave, he lives his own life.” But he
is not the introvert that he is sometimes
represented to be. I have always found him
unobtrusively companionable, and I like the
silent dignity of a ﬁne one. Cats are pro—
tective in their quiet, telepathic way. They
are reposeful and inspire conﬁdence. ‘

 




 

Dec. 1934

 

 

CHRISTMAS COMES TO' THE ANIMAL PETS

 

The Little Lizard

LEONIE HUNTER

NE day a neighbor who had newly come to California from

the East called me out to see what she called a “queer
creature.” “It looks something like a snake and I was wonder-
ing if we ought to kill it,” she said. It turned out to be nothing
more formidable than a little lizard, or swift as we more com-
monly call them. It was still sitting in the sun where she had
ﬁrst found it, but retreated hastily under some old boards when
she stepped closer to get a better View of it.

She was assured that far from being harmful they are really
friendly little fellows. I told her about the little pet lizard I
once had who came out from his hiding place under the steps
whenever he heard my voice. He would cock his little head
in a friendly listening attitude. Of course it is necessary to
assume a gentle tone. I have heard that some of them become
so tame, they can be touched. This stage must be worked up
to gradually, however, or the timid little creature will drop its
tail and run off in alarm. Gradually the tail grows back again
after such a catastrophe.

So the little lizard’s life was spared.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

llllll IlriLL L
ll"

  
 

 
   
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

‘qllllLL “is:
Ill/1533* ‘93s}:

 

Smoky’s Christmas
VERA L. SHATTUC

MOKY” may not know the meaning of it all, but she

certainly had a wonderful time last Christmas. Being a
cat, she was curious when the little tree was brought in. Ever-
green trees were nothing new to her, but it was strange to
have one set up on the parlor table. She had to climb up into
the branches and sniff it all over right away.

When bright green, yellow and red balls appeared, she had
to get up again and sniff them each one. They were really
interesting for they would bob and dance about when she patted
them. The big blue ball, when she struck it, ﬂew right off the
tree with a tinkle which summoned “Pup.” He found a bright
new treasure to add to his cache in the big arm—chair. Most
interesting of all the ornaments was a red bell with a real
clapper which was hung in a circle of tinsel. Once, in the mid-
dle of the night, we heard it ring again and again and knew
that Smokey must be admiring the tree. She was so successful
in untrimming it that we ﬁnally left the lower branches bare.

Packages, too, were interesting and she sniffed them all over.
One little one was especially interesting and she carried it off
and tried to unwrap it herself, using both her teeth and claws.
Then she rolled over and over on it. It really did have her name
on it but we had not expected to give it till the next day when
the family had their packages. Can you guess what it was?
Yes, catnip.

Santa had not forgotten anyone, not even the “Old Lady,”
our mammy cat, or Pup. Smoky could not read so the others
had to wait till Christmas day for their presents.

Pup and Old Lady refused to get excited about their gifts,—
they were always fed anyway. But never before had there been
such paper to rustle, to hide under and to scoot across the floor.
Crumpled tissue paper made such wonderful light balls for
Smoky to bat about! Pup would capture one, carry it into the
corner and tear it to shreds. He would get hold of a long string
or ribbon and start off with that but Smoky would pounce on
the knot. Then some one would always swing it about for them
and there was a scramble to see whether Pup or Puss would get
it. Oh, Christmas was fun!

My Kitty Waif

ELLA C. FORBES
Whenever I walk along Sudbury Street,
There’s a poor little kitty I’m certain to meet.
A nice little tabby, but Oh, so shabby,

With such dirty shoes on her four little feet.

If nobody owns her, she’s coming to me,

And after a little, how diﬁ‘erent she’ll be;

Her coat will be silky, and she’ll be so fat

That kitty won’t know she’s the same little cat.

She’ll sleep in a basket so snuggy and warm,

And soon she’ ll forget all the hunger and harm

0f the days when she wandered on Sudbury Street
With such dirty shoes on her four little feet.

For answers to last month’s puzzle, please see page 190 of this number.

 

 




 

 

Sept. 1931;

OUR DUMB

ANIMALS

 

 

 

 

  

.
7' [‘A.‘
.‘ /.~//
I .,:
-l1\
..4
. ‘ . ;- ’
I l‘ ‘ '4
r
\
t’ ‘
I, .
r/ _ .
A' 4 \
I
,4:
n ,,
'A;
\\\ W

   
 

    

 

 

 

 

      

  

  
    

\ “
@“4”
’3" V
\ \\\§t

l Wh_ 7/. /”
We; in

x;

A

Photo by H. Armstrong Roberts
SUMMER COMPANIONS

 

 

 

 

Traveling with Ice Packs
ORA POLLARD PARKINSQN

EFORE the days of air conditioning, the costly little
B chinchillas, traveling from their home in the high Andes
to a new home in the United States, had to wear ice packs on
their heads when they crossed the equator. They live up
12,000 feet or higher, and as they often cost as much as $5,000
a pair, their new owners must be very careful of them.

At ﬁrst, the father and mother chinchillas were brought
half way down the great mountains, then a home was estab-
lished, and the baby chinchillas born there were later taken
farther down towards the lowlands. In this way the changes
in altitude and temperature were more gradual.

With air conditioning, chinchilla box-houses can now bring
these very valuable little “immigrants” from their high homes
in the Andes to the “ranches” in the Unit-ed States.

A Queer Animal

HE rock cony is a most interesting little fellow, says
T Henry H. Graham in Boy Life. He makes hay while the
sun shines, just like any good farmer. In fact, he works hard
all summer long, gathering green grass and storing it in his
home under rocks for winter’s use.

All summer long they toil industriously, and, when cold

    

 
  

  

:4]. . \4(\ 0.x) //l/ ’ "
meanw/e/rmrigﬁﬁr ., e Mggigw 4 ..

‘K
“ \

weather sets in, they are well provided for. Underneath the
rocks their nests are warm and clean, and the heaviest snows
can not reach them.

The rock cony is very shy, and he is rarely seen, as he dashes
for cover upon the approach of danger, uttering a. shrill squeal
that serves as a warning to his mates. But when it comes to
putting up hay from ﬁelds, of wild grass, he has a method all
his own. In cloudy weather he does not seem to work. Perhaps
instinct tells him that is not the time to make hay.

A Stowaway Cat
ELIZABETH WILLIAMS SUDLOW

TRUTS” is the name of a little black kitten living in
Miami, but “Lindbergh” or “Columbus” or “Ponce de
Leon” or the name of some other adventurous explorer would
really have suited him better. This inquisitive little kitten
really belongs somewhere between Atlanta and Miami, but just
where is not known. One day he became tired of his own back
yard and wander-ed over to the airport. Here a big Eastern Air
Transport plane was making ready to ﬂy south. Kitty saw the
plane, admired its lines, and began an investigation.

Ah, a hole! Maybe a fat mouse lived in there! So under the
wheels, close to the fuselage, kitty scrambled in. He didn’t
know that this hole was there so that the landing gear could
be drawn in and stored away.

Struts was investigating, or maybe taking a wee nap, when
he was startled by the roar of the motor. From a crack in the
wall he could see the earth way down below,—too far to jump.
Up half a mile Struts shivered; perhaps he closed his eyes
and went to sleep again. We don’t know.

Anyway, when the plane ﬁnally landed in Miami, Struts
decided it was time to let the world know he was no Lindbergh.
He undertook to tell the whole world that he didn’t like this
contraption and never did and never would! Pilots and pas—
sengers. were startled. Whence came all this noise? At last
the kitten was discovered and ﬁnally lured from his hiding-
place.

Pilot McCann took the kitten home to his two little girls and
now Struts, as they named him, is a famous cat.

Puppy-Love
DOROTHY M. HERR

A very small and lonely lad
Sat weeping, on a log;

His little heart was broken, for
He’d lost a friend—his dog.

There was a sound, his face felt wet;
He turned with tear-dimmed eye

And saw a pup—a spotted pup—
Abont eight inches high.

“Go ’way!” the little laddie said,
“You’re not a bit like ‘Bill.’ ”

Brown, pleading eyes looked into his——
Then everything was still;

For chubby, little arms held tight,
A warm and wriggly pup,

A little laddie smiled again,
A heart had been patched up.

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

   

‘5
-' ‘ ViiilIIu“;

’ n l
Ili‘

’34
”if
“a.

I
I

fe/l‘

I”

 

 

 

The Telling Tail

ELLEN LAIDLOVV

The little tail of our dear dog,
A treasury of emotion,

Is sensitive as it can be
To every jolly notion.

Just as a sun-dial simply shows
None but the sunny hours;

So happy times atune the tail
Of this little dog of ours.

Sometimes he wags it warily
In motion like a query;

Slow and uncertain, with restraint;
And patience quite unweary.

But when his joy is unconfined
I-Iis tail is most emphatic;

With frantic force it freely wags
Until it is ecstatic!

Prepare now for BE KIND TO ANIMALS WEEK (April
16—21) by being kind to animals every day in the year.

      
 
   
 
  

 

 

. ,, AM“.-_.—‘—-—-——-————~__-——<

 

 

' g x “if! A?”

$4

$4.

 

“Our Dumb Animals” in Mexico

RS. MAURICE

W. TURNER,
the wife of a Brock-
line, Mass, phy-
sician, s en d s Our
Dumb Animals e a c h
month to her grand-
niece, thirteen-year-
old J a n e Cadogan,
who lives in Moco-
rito, Mexico, m o r e
than a hundred miles
from any other
American chil-
dren. This is what
Jane recently wrote to
her aunt.

“You must think
that I have been
very neglectful for
not thanking you
for the animal
magazines you so
often send me.
They are very in-

 

 

 

 

 

. I. a .
3Q}... -.

.0
4. :-‘ .
~\!:~§.‘\. 1‘

4

 

 

 

teresting as I am a
lover of all animals.
The companionship
of my cat and dog
takes the place of
that of any other
playmates. My dog
“Kito,” is of a very
jealous nature, for on Christmas morning amid the excite-
ment of things he thought himself neglected, so ﬁnding a
twig of holly he came and sat up with it in his mouth,
saying, ‘M-erry Christmas’ in his own way. Again I thank
you for the magazines.”

JANE AND “KITO” IN MEXICO

A Goose That Drives the Cows

JULIETTE FRAZIER

S OME time ago a farmer of Ballston, Oregon, while out
hunting, shot and wounded, a wild Canadian goose by
breaking the tip of one of her wings. Feeling sorry for the
injured bird, the farmer took the goose home and placed her
in the barnyard with the, rest of his fowls.

At first the goose was very shy at the approach of any

 

 

 

human being, but being entirely dependent for her living
upon the hand that was feeding her, in time she became qulte
tame, and eventually a great help on her master’s farm.

Every evening the goose goes out into the pasture and
drives the cows home. When they loiter by the wayside she
urges them on by pecking at their legs until they obey her.
After they reach the barn this clever honker drives each cow
into her own stall. Occasionally when some cow becomes un-

 

 

 

 

 

ruly and refuses to go into her stall the goose has to work

 

 

HOW MANY FROGS CAN YOU FIND IN THIS PICTURE?

very hard, but she never gives up until she has succeeded in
driving each animal into its proper place.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




3

5--.. ‘5-
‘ t "‘V

'3; Q’ x,
- ww- “a;
raw. . 3.
HM:

, l
Jammy {in}; N. .3;

{m
an"
7:"
éﬁti’? 4, .3 air} 1‘; MIME

 

 

 




l
l

 

 

 

Page24
Our Dumb Animals

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston Ofﬁce; 180 Longwood Av-
enue, Boston, Mass., to which all communications
should be addressed.

Dr. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON, Editor

WILLIAM M. MORRILL, Assistant

 

FEBRUARY, 1 934

 

FOR TERMS, see back cover.

AGENTS to take orders for Our Dumb Animals are
wanted everywhere. Liberal commissions are offered.

EDITORS of all periodicals who receive this pub-
lication this month are invited to reprint any of the
articles with or without credit.

MANUSCRIPTS relating to animals, particularly
prose articles of about three hundred words are solic-
ited. We do not wish to consider prose manuscripts
longer than 800 words, nor verse in excess of thirty-
six lines. The shorter the better. All manuscripts
should be typewritten and an addressed envelope with
full return postage enclosed with each offering.

 

 

Protecting the Pheasant

N article bearing the above title ap-

peared in the December issue of Country
Life which has called forth many protests
against its publication. The article in ques-
tion advocated the indiscriminate destruc-
tion of hawks and owls. Even a picture of
the cruel pole trap appeared, a trap so in-
humane that it is outlawed in many states
and one which catches and destroys many
beneﬁcial species of birds besides those it
is set to kill. The Audubon Society recom-
mends to those who think of all hawks and
owls as enemies of more valuable birds a
pamphlet by S. Prentiss Baldwin on the
“Protection of Hawks and Owls.”

Worth Repeating

The following interesting and amusing
story comes to us from our greatly-valued
worker at present in Vermont, Miss Gilbert.
After one of her talks to a school she was
succeeded by representatives of a state safe-
ty campaign. Tall, stalwart ofﬁcers in uni—
form had been speaking. Finishing the ﬁnal
address an impressive oﬂicer said, “Now,
children, what have we been telling you to
do? What is it all about?” Silence. Stupe-
faction. Then one tiny hand in the ﬁrst
grade was raised to offer testimony. “Well,
what do you say,” said the ofﬁcer: Answer:
“We must always be kind to dumb animals.”

A Comfort to Some of Us

Frederick J. E. Woodbridge in his “The
Son of Apollo—Plato” says:

“Plato’s works are as uneven in merit
as the work of many another to whom great-
ness is not to be denied. They abound in
trivialities which may have seemed im-
portant to the Greeks but which can be
important to us only through an act of
faith. Some of them are as futile as any-
thing ever written.”

A newspaper reports that “Tom,” who
belongs to Lynn Bowers Sell, young attor-
ney of Oklahoma City, is the ﬁrst cat ever
listed on Oklahoma County tax rolls. Sells
llsted the cat at $25, just enough to place
any “cat-naper” in jeopardy of grand lar-
ceny charges, and paid $1.25 cat tax.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

A Junior Army for World
Peace

ECEMBER 19, 1933, there was organ-

ized in the Cooley High School, De-
troit, Michigan, the ﬁrst regiment of the
Junior Army for World Peace. The pur-
pose of the Army seems to be, as stated
brieﬂy, “to promote peace by all honorable
means; to spread friendliness by writing to
school children in this and other countries;
to hold mass meetings from time to time
where speakers tell us of the horrors of
war, and to recognize our obligations as
future citizens by responding to our coun—
try’s call if we are needed but to try to
delay, so long as possible, the day such call
might be necessary.”

The Detroit News has offered to print in
its columns material originating in the
Cooley Regiment and any school desirous
of joining in this splendid movement is
asked to write to William Gamon, Cooley
High School, to ask for information as to
how to form a unit of this Junior Army for
World Peace.

Here is _a marvelous chance to enlist the
youth of our country in World Peace. Let
us hope the day will come when the Gov-
ernment will take some interest in training
the boys and young men in our high schools
and colleges in the ways of peace instead of
in the militarism which now only encour-
ages the spirit of war.

Scottish Wisdom

At a meeting of the General Council of
the Scottish S. P. C. A. held in Edinburgh
last November the following statement was
made:

One of the greatest difﬁculties with which
animal workers are faced is that of being
regarded as fanatics by so many people, and
then further it is difﬁcult to induce edu-
cate-d people to take the subject seriously be-
cause of the extravagant action of extrem—
ists. The Scottish S. P. C. A. does stand for
sane methods of work, and it does attempt
to put the matter on a scientiﬁc basis. We
have to contend with the fact that the aver—
age member of the public is rather narrow
in his interests and has not extended his
outlook to take in such things as cruelty to
animals. When we do come to regard the
matter in its proper light, the ﬁrst thing
about which we have to be clear is the
status of animals—and this is not based on
the intelligence of animals but on the fact
that they have feelings. How much they
can think or reason does not concern us—
what does concern us is that they can feel.
It does not do to make them too human.

The Rose and the Thorn

The celebrated Prince Von Bulow’s
mother-in-law once wrote him words which
all of us might well remember:

“Gather the roses bravely. Do not let
yourself. be frightened by the thorns. The
joy which each tiny and perhaps seemingly
insigniﬁcant rose can bring into your life
is worth a hundred thousand thorn-pricks,
for the smart of a prick is soon cured and
forgotten, but the sweet scent of the rose
even when it is faded remains for long, all
your life perhaps, in your memory, and the
thought of it can still brighten the soul.”

Feb. 1931;
He Saw War

HEN Sir Philip Gibbs writes about

war he is writing about something
he saw with his own eyes. Read this from
his “The Way of Escape”:

When the World War began great num-
bers of young men had a sense of adven-
ture—of an exultation which was not with-
out spiritual beauty. Millions of them,
mostly boys, really, were uplifted by an
emotionalism which was perhaps as high as
human nature may attain. They believed
they were ﬁghting for ideals beyond self-
interest; they got their ticket for the
slaughter-house and marched toward the
battleﬁelds gladly, on ﬁre with the passion
of patriotism. -

These young recruits had imagined a war-
fare in’ which courage would count. But
this war was not that kind. The human
being hardly counted at all when crouched
in a trench or herded into a dug-out, be-
cause something else, inhuman, was the real
enemy. It was not a war between men
and men. It was a war between machines
and machines, and men were just blood and
pulp for that mass production of death.

In modern machine-made war—at least
under heavy barrage ﬁre—soldiers are no
longer men. They are merely bundles of
quivering nerves under the ﬂail of explosive
shells. They can do nothing about it. They
cannot even strike a heroic attitude. What
courage they have at such times is only
passive, like that of martyrs in the torture
chamber. ‘

Youth knows that war is dangerous. But
youth, yearning for adventure, does not
know that war is damned silly; that it is
the last resort of the fool and the mob,
the great chance for the wooden head under
the brass hat; that it is the denial of life’s
beauty and our best code of decency. The
younger minds today must decide for them-
selves Whether they think this kind of war,
or any other, is worth while for any purpose
whatever. '

Unprofitable Profession

Sometimes trainers of wild animals do
not ﬁnd their occupation so proﬁtable as it
might seem to be. An Associated Press dis-
patch recently says that a verdict of $20,000
was given by Judge William A. Burns in
Superior Court at Pittsﬁeld, Mass., for
John W. Cronin, a local boy, who was
seriously mangled by a hear at a carnival
there in 1931. i

The action was brought by the boy’s
father against Leo Bistany, the bear’s
keeper, and Mike Zinney, the owner, both
of Brooklyn, N. Y.

In his “Recollections” Charles Robert
Leslie writes of Sir Walter Scott:

“While strolling with Sir Walter about
his own grounds, a pleasure I often enjoyed,
he would frequently stop and point out
exactly that object or effect that would
strike the'eye of a painter. He said he al-
ways liked to have a dog with him in his
walks, if for nothing else but to furnish a
living object in the foreground of the pic-
ture; and he noticed to me, when we were
among the hills, how much interest was
given to the scene by the occasional appear-
ance of his black greyhound, “Hamlet,” at
unexpected points.”

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

.4‘.

 

 

 

 

Page 1,8

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

“Klondike” of Nome, an Alaskan husky, dropped in at the Angell Animal Hospital
recently to be given an examination by Dr. Hugh F. Dailey. MISS Jean Dempster, the

owner, and Klondike are often heard on the radio.

 

u Patsy”

R. J. JACKSON, M.D.

ODAY, in “a freshly made box padded

with the ﬂowers of late summer, I laid
away beneath the sheltering branches of a
giant oak, our little pet and constant com-
panion, our dearly loved buff-colored span-
iel, “Patsy.”

During my life-time, I have listened to
many funeral sermons, some of them beau-
tiful, most of them terrible. In many of
them was a very evident effort to paint a
picture of the departed, in which, could the
subject of the eulogy have heard it, he
would never have recognized himself.

It is easy for me to pay tribute to our
little friend without outraging truth or in
stirring up the emotions in discussing the
age-old subject of destiny.

It was in what Patsy did not possess as
well as what she did possess that endeared
her to us. Being “just a dog,” she knew no
hate, no envy, no jealousy, no longing for
a better station in life. Not being under
the handicap of being human, she had no
ambition to excel her neighbors. She liked
them all and they in turn liked her. She

Photo from Boston Post.

didn’t gossip about them or lie about them.
The only social obligation she recognized
was discharged by a playful greeting and
a vigorous wagging of her little golden tail.
Her life was not poisoned by mourning over
the past or in dreaming of the future. One
day at a time, and that a happy one, seemed
to be her motto. Besides her apparent ob-
ject of radiating sunshine every day of her
life, she had only one other ambition, and
while she never achieved it, she set a ﬁne
example of patient and undiscouraged per-
sistence. She always wanted to catch a
cotton—tail rabbit, and never seemed able
to ﬁgure out why her little short legs and
ﬂuffy feet could not carry her fast enough.

I have mentioned a few of the qualities
and emotions that she did not possess, not
being human. On the other hand, if the
value of a life were measured by its contri-
bution of happiness, Patsy’s gift to us has
been generous, eleven years without a bark
or snarl, without a sulk or sign of dis-
appointment, nothing but an affectionate
look in her big brown eyes, and always a
happy welcome at the door.

I wonder who of us has, as unfailingly
and uncomplainingly, contributed more?

 

 

TO OUR FRIENDS

In making your will, kindly bear in mind that the corporate title of our Society is “The
Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals”: that it is the second
incorporated (March, 1868) Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals in the country,
and that it has no connection with any other similar Society.

Any bequest especially intended for the beneﬁt of the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital
should, nevertheless, be made to The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals “for the use of the Hospital,” as the Hospital is not incorporated but is the
property of that Society and is conducted by it.

FORM OF BEQUEST

I give to The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (or
to The American Humane Education Society), the sum of ....... . . . . . . . . . .

dollars (or, if other property, describe the property).

 

 

 

 

 

M ar. 1931;

who 'i'ﬁanh nf 11132111.;

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary
E. A. MARYOTT, State Organizer
PLEDGE
I will try to be kind to all living creatures and
try to protect them from cruel usage.

The American Humane Education Society will send
to every person who forms a. Band of Mercy of thirty
members, and sends the name chosen for the Band and
the name and post-ofﬁce address of the president who
has been duly elected, special Band of Mercy literature
and a gilt badge for the president.

See inside front cover for prices of literature and
Band of Mercy supplies.

NEW BANDS OF MERCY

Five hundred and forty-two new Bands
of Mercy were reported during January.
Of these, 308 were in Illinois, 110 in
Georgia, 74 in Massachusetts, 22 in Vir-
ginia, 14 in Pennsylvania, ﬁve in Florida,
three each in Tennessee and Vermont, and

one each in Missouri, New Jersey, and
Wisconsin.

Total number Bands of Mercy organized
by Parent American Society, 199,411

A Big Dollar’s Worth

For only one dollar the new volume of
Our Dumb Animals, containing all twelve
numbers for 1933, will be sent to any ad-
dress. This consists of 192 pages of the best
humane literature, with 150 attractive illus—
trations of animals and birds, all substan-
tially bound in green cloth with gilt titles.
It is the best bargain of the kind we know
of, ideally adapted for school and public li-
brary shelves. Why not place a copy in your
library in celebration of Be Kind to Ani-
mals Week? We have on hand yet a few
copies of similar bound volumes for pre-
vious years, which will be sent anywhere for
only 75 cents while they last. Address, Our
Dumb Animals, 180 Longwood Avenue, Bos—
ton.

A dispatch to the Register, New Haven,
Conn., says that when his dog’s freedom is
endangered a six-year-old Helena, Montana,
boy is willing to whip the whole police de-
partment. Fists clenched and tears stream-
ing down his face, the boy offered to do as
much when he was brought before the
police chief of thatcity after the dog was
taken to the pound. The police chief, who
did not disclose the identity of the lad,
turned the dog loose.

 

Our Dumb Animals

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston Ofﬁce; 180 Longwood Av-
enue.

Address all communications to Boston.
TERMS
One dollar per year. Postage free to any part of
the World.

Humane Societies and Agents are invited to cor-
respond with us for terms on largeorders.

All dollar subscriptions sent direct to the ofﬁce en-
title the sender to membership in either of our two
Societies. .

RATES OF MEMBERSHIP IN

THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
OR THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.

Active Life $100 00 Active Annual $10 00

Associate Life 50 00 Associate Annual 5 00

Sustaining 20 00 Annual 1 00
Children’s $0.75

Checks and other payments may be sent to ALBERT
A. POLLARD, Treasurer,
Boston.

Manuscripts should be addressed to the Editor,
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston.

180 Longwood Avenue,

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page ’72

Our Dumb Animals

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston Ofﬁce; 180 Longwood Av-
enue, Boston, Mass., to which all communications

should be addressed.

Dr. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON, Editor
WILLIAM M. MORRILL, Assistant

 

MAY, 1934

 

FOR TERMS, see back cover.

AGENTS to take orders for Our Dumb Animals are
wanted everywhere. Liberal commissions are offered.

EDITORS of all periodicals who receive this pub—
lication this month are invited to reprint any of the
articles with or without credit.

MANUSCRIPTS relating to animals, particularly
prose articles of about three hundred words are solic-
ited. We do not Wish to consider prose manuscripts
longer than 800 words, nor verse in excess of thirty-
six lines. The shorter the better. All manuscripts
should be typewritten and an addressed envelope with
full return postage enclosed with each offering.

 

 

Our Taunton Branch

E regret that in our Annual Report

no mention was made of the Taunton
Branch of the Massachusetts Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals. This ac—
tive branch, under the efﬁcient and untiring
presidency of Mrs. Howard F. Woodward,
has continued to serve the cause of animal
reform in and about the city of Taunton
with its population of some 40,000 people.
Four hundred and twenty-two lost, un-
wanted or diseased small animals were hu-
manely put to sleep. Homes were found for
all in health and not returned to owners.
The branch has co-operated with ourstate
ofﬁcer at New Bedford and with Dr.
O’Brien’s animal hospital.

Borah and War

Whence came wars and ﬁghting, says an
ancient Biblical writer. Senator Borah goes
far to answer that question in a recent
speech:

“Capone, Dillinger on the highway are
no more heartless and bloodthirsty than the
man who builds up armaments in another
nation for the purpose of sending his own
people to the front that they may furnish
the means by which to murder them. More
than anything else that contributed to the
great war was the sordid and vicious propa-
ganda which was constantly carried on by
munition manufacturers. Killing is the
business of armament manufacturers, gov-
ernments are their customers.”

A Testimonial

FRANK A. DAY JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOL
NEWTONVILLE, MASSACHUSETTS

March 7, 1934
My dear Dr. Rowley:

I am happy to report to you that your
representative, Miss Maryott, gave a very
instructive and interesting illustrated talk
before our junior high youngsters today.

I am sure it helped considerably in giving
us all a more sympathetic attitude toward
the domestic animals about us; and for this
reason alone, it was a very constructive
talk.

Sincerely yours,
RUSSELL V. BURKHARD
Principal

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Why Not Your School?

N the Shurtleﬁ‘ Public School, Chelsea,

Massachusetts, there was founded some
years ago the Kindness Club. One of the
founders of this Club writes:

The Kindness Club has had marked suc—
cess in teaching our boys and girls to appre-
ciate our dumb animals. To them we are
indebted for our bird baths which have
attracted many of the uncommon birds to
come to our school yard where the primary
children may observe them.

It has its president, secretary, treasurer
and board of directors. Among the found-
ers are Mr. Leo P. Casey, the master, and
Miss Grace M. Carter, supervisor. Before
this Club we expect soon to show our new
motion pictures illustrating our work.

Inexcu sable Ignorance

Not one in ten thousand who eat the chop
or steak has seen the death of a single meat
animal. What dainty wearer of Arctic fox
has seen the trapped creature struggling in
the blood—stained snow? What wearer of a

muskrat coat gives thought to the millions

of animals that suffer in the marshes of
North America, from the Arctic Ocean to
the Gulf of Mexico? In most cases the sen—
sitive natures of the wearers of fur revolt
at the mere suggestion that these creatures
suffer, and they refuse to see even the pic—
tures that prove it, claiming that they can—
not bear such things. How many have seen
the duck, wounded by the stray pellet of
shot so that it cannot ﬂy or ﬁnd its food,
drifting helplessly down the stream, or hid-
ing on the reedy shore waiting for death?
Yet millions of waterfowl thus end their
lives each year. And what of the gentle
mourning dove stricken as she feeds her
young in the orchard, or the bobwhite that
next spring would sound his clear whistle
in the hayﬁeld but now must ﬂutter out his
life in the thicket. Ask the hunter, for he is
the only one who knows. And have we for-
gotten the Great War? Be sure that in
thousands of homes the memory of it is all
too fresh. So why shouldnot our educators
teach peace in the schools, rather than war?
—The Nature Magazine

Edison and the Crippled
Bird

Frances Jehl is our authority for the
following:

Edison ﬁnding one day a crippled bird
that had been unable to make the autumnal
ﬂight southward with its companions,
caught it, kept it, cared for it until it
appeared able to fly. Then, being in doubt
about the bird’s ability to meet the demands
of a long air journey, he made a comfort-
able little box replete with such facilities
as the frail passenger would require. Mr.
Edison then placed his little friend in the
box, labeled it for a destination in South
America, and delivered it to the express
company with instructions to release the
bird at the end of the journey. '

Information from the Royal S. P. C. A.,
London, England, tells us of an effort there
to secure legislation to stop the cruelties
of the rodeo. We had hoped England would
escape these barbaric exhibitions.

May, 1934

(Eammunmealtb at massacbusetts

By His Excellency
JOSEPH B. ELY
Governor

A Proclamation

The Commonwealth of Massachusetts,
through its Governor, issues each year a
proclamation in behalf of the dumb animals.
of the Commonwealth. With this custom in
View I designate Sunday, April 15th, as

HUMANE SUNDAY

I trust the churches throughout the Com-
monwealth through appropriate exercises
will properly observe the day. I also desig—
nate April 16th to 21st as

BE KIND TO ANIMALS WEEK

I trust the schools of the Commonwealth
will impress upon the scholars the import-
ance of. this proclamation. Massachusetts
has invariably been in the vanguard of pro-
gressive legislation. We have gladly joined
in this humane observance for many years.
In this respect, as far back as 1641, the
“General Laws and Liberties of Massachu-
setts Bay” (Chapter XXXII) say: “It is
ordered by this Court that no man shall
exercise tyranny or cruelty toward any
brute creatures which are usually kept for
the use of man.” '
Our statutes are considered models along
the line of animal protection and they are
frequently copied by other states of the
Union. We have a strong state organiza-
tion, believed to be second to none, calling
for the proper enforcement of our humane

' laws, and I am very glad of the opportun-

ity to compliment our' schools for the assist—
ance they have given along this line of en-
deavor. We cannot emphasize too strongly
the importance of legislation in behalf of
our dumb animals. I trust this good work
may continue that the youth of the Com—
monwealth may understand the worthiness
of humane treatment to the dumb animals
which have been placed in our care. '

In my proclamation a year ago I quoted
an old Hindu proverb, which was used in
closing public gatherings. I quote it again,
as 'to me a beautiful prayer, “May all that
have life be delivered from suffering.”

GIVEN, at the Executive Chamber, in Bos-
ton, this twenty-ninth day of March, in
the year of our Lord, one thousand nine
hundred and thirty-four and of the Inde—
pendence of the United States of America
the one hundred and ﬁfty-eighth.

By His Excellency the Governor,
JOSEPH B. ELY

Secretary of the Commonwealth
FREDERIC W. COOK

God Save The Commonwealth of Massachusetts

Angelo Patri on Dogs

Dogs and children have a certain kinship.
They seem to understand and cling to each
other with mutual affection. A child is
never alone, never without a friend so long
as his dog is alive. He is ready to frolic at
the ﬁrst hint, or he is ready to lick away
the fast falling tears and to do his best to
comfort his sorrowing master.

I would give the boys and girls their
dogs when they were old enough to know
how to take care of them. Not before. A
dog needs care and plenty of it.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 96
With Massachusetts Editors

ORE editorial comment on Be Kind

to Animals Week appeared in the
press of Massachusetts than ever before.
Following are a few excerpts:—

Boston: Christian Science Monitor.—
“Work for the protection and well-being of
the ‘lesser ideas’ of God cannot be regarded
as a minor activity but rather as an en-
deavor of highest effort.” .

Boston: Post—“This has long been an
annual observance, and it has been most
worth while. The person who shows kind-
ness and thoughtfulness for our dumb
friends reveals a ﬁne trait.”

Boston: Record—“We, as a people, treat
our animal friends more and more kindly
and the recurrence of Humane Week every
year serves to keep up that spirit.”

Fall River: Herald-Newa—“Every no-
table act of kindness to an animal by a pub-
lic personage is so much character educa-
tion for our boys and girls. It not only
evokes admiration but develops the ﬁner
things that are in them.”

Fitchburg: Sentinel.—“The local program

of education is one that deserves the sup- .

port of the community, and the attention
especially of parents and teachers who have
the responsibility of instructing children to
protect from harm the helpless animals and
birds.”

Franklin: Sentinel.——“Teachers in schools
and Sunday-schools might do a great deal
more than is being done now in the way of
humane education, while parents should
especially observe and endeavor to correct
tendencies toward cruelty on the part of
their children.”

Lowell: Leader.——The Lowell Humane So-
ciety is offering all possible advice to dog
owners this week. It is hoped this advice
which is available the year round, will keep
animals well and happy for the coming
yearﬁ’

Northampton: Gazettc.—“If the thoughts
of the public are turned to the matter of
kindness toward all animals, during the
coming week, it will mean that many people
will treat their domestic animals and pets
more considerately throughout the year.”

Salem: News—“It is well to say some
good words for the animals, as they have
no voice or language by which they can
plead their own cause. Children must be
taught to watch over the welfare of their
pets and all living creatures.”

Taunton: Gazette.——“It is simply to em-
phasize, at one season, all that is being done
by such organizations as the S. P. C. A. as
a whole and by its various branches like
that composed of humane-minded men and
women here in Taunton. It is hoped that

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

in this way, the work of the humanities
may be strengthened.”

Worcester: Post—“The net result of the
twenty annual Kindness Weeks is a better
understanding of all animal life, kindlier
treatment of animals everywhere. Let it
never be forgotten that he who is kind to
animals is most likely to be kind to hu-
mans—especially to children and. to the
aged. This means a happier world and,
Heaven knows, we need it.”

On Being a Good Sport

ROBERT M. HYATT

ATIONAL Observance Week is past.

Throughout the nation, thought for
the humane treatment of all animals has
been observed by real sports. Are you one
of these? Are you doing your bit toward
the welfare of our dumb animals?

Think . . . Would civilization have pro-
gressed and attained its present-day achieve-
ments without the aid of the horse and
dog? Theirs has been a life of unfailing
service and devotion to mankind.

Undoubtedly the horse ranks ﬁrst in
importance to us. Without him, there never
could have been the Pony Express, that
noble forerunner of fast letter transmission,
one of the chief attainments in the win-
ning of the West. The making of history
has depended upon him. Before steam and
gas came as vehicular power, Dobbin was
king. In many instances he still is. And
will continue to- be.

Watch the steady, faithful plodding of
the milkman’s horse. His slow, easy pro-
gress, his starts and stops, are timed accur-
ately to comply with his master’s deliveries.

Do you remember the days when three
massive white horses drew a smoking ﬁre
engine on its mission of rescue? Those
hoofs pounding against cobblestones at what
was then breathless speed, was a matchless
thrill.

We will never be without horses. Then
let us give a thought to their well-earned
reward. All the-y ask is kindness. All they
need is water and shade, ample food, and
an occasional rest. They will respond nobly
then.

Perhaps the greatest abuse practiced on
horses today is the setting up of docked
tails to please the warped-brain fans of the
show rings. The process necessitates cut—
ting the ﬂexor muscles on each side of tail.
This reduces it to a useless stump, making
it impossible to resist the annoyance of
ﬂies.

And the dog—man’s bravest, most faith-
ful and self-sacriﬁcing friend. He ranks as
the most practicable method of handling

 

 

TO OUR FRIENDS

In making your will, kindly bear in mind that the corporate title of our Society is “The
Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals”; that it is the second
incorporated (March, 1868) Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals in the country,
and that it has no connection with any other similar Society.

Any bequest especially intended for the beneﬁt of the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital
should, nevertheless, be made to The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals “for the use of the Hospital,” as the Hospital is not incorporated but is the
property of that Society and is conducted by it.

FORM OF BEQUEST

I give to The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (or
to The American Humane Education Society), the sum of ............................
dollars (or, if other property), describe the property).

 

 

June, 1931;

live stock against thieves and wild animals,
and for herding purposes.

What exploration party ever leaves for
distant lands without several dogs? De-
spite all modern inventions, expeditions into
the Arctics are never attempted without
them.

Think of the dog’s fame in the War Zone.
Ten thousand were in service at the Front
when the armistice was signed. The Red
Cross dog, with his ﬁrstpaid kit, that ig-
nored every danger for his service to man.
The Liaison dog, message bearer, trained
to seek his master under all conditions.
Often he saved whole companies of men
from disaster.

Think of the dog—your best friend, that
does your least bidding without a grumble.
Remember his few needs. Guard against
his abuse. He won’t forget.

The cat, too. A mousetrap than which
there are no peers. Protect her. Be care-
ful of placing poison for rodents. “Tom”
or “Tabby” may ﬁnd it ﬁrst.

And this goes for the birds, too. They’ll
appreciate those daily crumbs. That bowl
of fresh water. They’ll remember all you
good sports—and come back daily to sere-
nade you with their thankful songs.

Let’s all be GOOD SPORTS from this
day on!

Cats in Slums of Japan

Editor, Om" Dumb Animals :—

The Japanese Christian, Toyohiko Ka-
gawa, a man of saintly character, went to
live in the slums. He says:

“Where love is, there God is. One old
beggar woman lived in a tiny six by six feet
room. Yet she picked up one cat after an-
other till she had thirteen, and spent more
on feeding her cats than on feeding her-self.
This old woman asked me to be her son and
bury her. When I promised to do so she be-
gan to try to look after my comfort. Know-
ing I had little to eat, she searched through
many garbage boxes and found a potato and
gave it to me. I cooked and ate it. She was
delighted, and said, ‘I’ll bring you more!’
I declined with some emphasis: ‘Give them
to your cats!’ ”

Kagawa wrote three books on slum life.
The public was stirred, and the Diet voted
twenty million yen to abolish the slums of
the six largest cities in Japan.

ALICE STONE BLACKWELL

 

 

 

Our Dumb Animals

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston Ofﬁce; 180 Longwood Av-
enue.

Address all communications to Boston.

TERMS
One dollar per year. Postage free to any part of
the World.
Humane Societies and Agents are invited to cor-
respond with us for terms on large orders.
All dollar subscriptions sent direct to the ofﬁce en-

title the sender to membership in either of our two
Societies.

RATES OF MEMBERSHIP IN

THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
OR THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.

Active Life $100 00 Active Annual $10 00
Associate Life 50 00 Associate Annual 5 00
Sustaining 20 00 Annual 1 00

Childrens $0.75

Checks and other payments may be sent to ALBERT
A. PO'LLARD, Treasurer, 180 Longwood Avenue,
Boston.

Manuscripts should be addressed to the Editor,
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

PageIQO
Our Dumb Animals

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston Ofﬁce; 180 Longwood Av-
enue, Boston, Mass., to which all communications
should be addressed.

Dr. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON, Editor
WILLIAM M. MORRILL, Assistant

 

AUGUST, 1934

 

FOR TERMS, see back cover.

AGENTS to take orders for Our Dumb Animals are
wanted everywhere. Liberal commissions are offered.

EDITORS of all periodicals who receive this pub-
lication this month are invited to reprint any of the
articles with or without credit.

MANUSCRIPTS relating to animals, particularly
prose articles of about three hundred words are solic-
ited. We do not wish to consider prose manuscripts
longer than 800 words, nor verse in excess of thirty-
six lines. The shorter the better. All manuscripts
should be typewritten and an addressed envelope with
full return postage enclosed with each offering.

 

 

Unsuitable for Children

ERTAIN ﬁlms have been classiﬁed by
C the British Board of Film Censors as
“horriﬁc.” The term is highly signiﬁcant.
Not long ago the Animal Defense Society in
London urged that at places where such
ﬁlms were advertised for exhibition a notice
should be placed bearing this information:
“THIS FILM IS UNSUITABLE FOR CHILDREN.”

We commend this to the attention of
all Jack London Club members throughout
the United States. At a time when the preva—
lence of crimes of violence constitutes so
serious a problem, who will not agree that
the animal ﬁlms featuring cruelty, blood—
shed and killing are exerting a pernicious
and demoralizing inﬂuence upon children
and adults alike, and are a contributing
cause of the reign of lawlessness and crime?

In the “Cage of Fury”

Before an audience of 2,000 spectators
Allan King, the notorious animal trainer
of the Standard Oil’s “Cage of Fury” at the
World’s Fair, was attacked by one of his
Nubian lions. Choosing a moment when
King’s back was turned, the beast sprang
from his pedestal and inﬂicted painful
wounds upon his trainer. On Children’s Day
when thousands of youngsters were present
another lion became so irritable and vicious
from the noise and riot that he was shot.
Why this latter was not reported in the
press we can only surmise.

Restoration of Song Birds

The report of the President’s Committee
on Wild Life Restoration, of which Thomas
H. Beck is chairman and Jay N. Darling,
now Chief of the Biological Survey, is a
member, which starts out with the use of
$25,000,000, contains an unprecedented en-
dorsement of the need of restoration of song,
insectivorous and ornamental birds. The
statement of the Committee in regard to
this must have the hearty approval of all
conservationists.

.The report says “the economic, inspira-
tional, recreational, and spectacle value of
these birds is incalculable.”

-—Massachusetts Audubon Bulletin

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

The Audubon Societies and
Their Rainey Wild Life

Sanctuary

E published in the June issue an

article under the above heading. The
practical question raised by the article was
“Is the National Association of Audubon
Societies doing everything within its power
to make that Sanctuary the best possible
place for wild fowl, and avoiding to the ut-
most limit the necessity of the use of traps
to protect it from muskrat, mink, raccoon
and other fur-bearing animals?”

It is in justice to the Audubon Societies
that space be given by us to a brief sum-
mary of a report by Dr. Robert K. Enders,
who was asked to investigate the Rainey
Wild Life Sanctuary some months ago. This
summary follows.

Upon authorization of the Board of Di-
rectors of the National Association of Audu-
bon Societies, the president requested the
writer to undertake an investigation of con-
ditions on the Rainey Wild Life Sanctuary
in Louisiana. Beginning on December 18,
work was carried on through December 26.

To comprehend the problem one must
visualize an area that is very large and,
within certain limits, diverse. Moreover,
vegetational cycles induced by meteorologi-
cal conditions are further complicated by
the inter-relations of the fauna and ﬂora.
As the writer viewed the situation, the prob-
lem appeared to be to maintain maximum
conditions for the wild fowl with existing
funds and income.

At present empirical practices alone are
possible. Fragmentary knowledge is all that
anyone has of these marshlands. Moreover,
what is true of a given area in one year may
not be true the next. Each area is in some
stage of a cycle.

It may be said that almost every stage of
the vegetational cycle of the marshland is
represented within the area.

Thus an area growing in “three-corner
grass” one year may, following a dry season
or two, grow the much less desirable salt
grass or even be overrun by the “coffee
bush.” Similarly, a rapid increase in the
number of muskrats may result in the de-
struction of the roots of the “three-corner
grass” leaving an unproductive ooze to lie
fallow until conditions again change.

On the Sanctuary muskrats occur chieﬂy
in areas where there is little or no open
water. The surface of the water may cover
the base of the plants, or it may be below
this level. In such a habitat the muskrats
make use of a complex system of burrows.
These burrows are under the mass of plant
roots which make up the “ﬂoor” of the
marsh and are, therefore, below water-level
during normal seasons. In addition to these
under-water passageways through the hu-
mus and muck, there are runways cut
through the vegetation on the surface as
well as some cut deep enough to be water-
ﬁlled but still shallow enough to be con-
sidered as surface runways. As there are
few places high enough for dry burrows
the animals live in houses on the marsh.
Entrance to these houses is through the
deeper under-water passageways which may
be termed plungeways, as it is thus that
they are used.

Muskrats may affect the desirability of
the Sanctuary as a wild fowl refuge in sev-

Aug. 1931;

eral ways. They may compete for food, they
may destroy desirable food, they may in—
crease the amount of food for the wild fowl
by creating open water and they may
attract carnivorous enemies of the wild fowl.
Without becoming too involved it may be
said that as far as direct competition for
food is concerned the only competition is
between muskrats and the blue and snow
geese.

Muskrats may become so numerous as to
eat up all of the roots of the “three-corner
grass” reducing the area to a foul, semi-
solid loblolly which supports nothing of
value to wild life for several years. Levees
used to retain water on lands in order to
make it attractive to water fowl suffer from
the activities of muskrats when, through
the pressure of numbers, they are tunneled
for burrows and nests. Bearing in mind
that the reproductive capacity of the. musk-
rat is unbelievably great whenever suitable
conditions are found, the conclusion that
some control is necessary if the suitable
conditions are to be maintained, is forced
upon one.

Muskrats suffer from a number of dis-
eases, a condition soon reﬂected by the
decreased stamina of the animals, and it is
under conditions of crowding and poor feed-
ing that these diseases develop. Before long
the animals would be the victims of an
epizootic which would reduce their num-

bers to. a pitiable fraction. The vegetation .

destroyed before the advent of the epizootic
would be renewed again in several years
and the cycle would begin again. In the
meantime, however, valuable goose forage
would have been destroyed. Yes, nature is
able to maintain a balance but her methods
are very wasteful of wild life. Any other
policy than that of control by trapping
appears impractical in the light of our
present knowledge.

The most destructive of all wild life is
the mink. Audubon declared that the mink
subsists principally upon clapper rails, sea-
side sparrows, and sharp-tailed sparrows.
As is well known, ducks suffer from its
attacks.

Since control must be undertaken, the
problem of how this control is to be exer-
cised is pertinent. Until some better method
is evolved, trapping is probably the best
way.

The trap now being used on the Sanctu-
ary kills about 90% of the muskrats cap-
tured. One long line set by an expert
trapper over which the writer traveled
showed kills of 94%. This is a remarkable
record when compared to the usual practice
elsewhere.

The writer’s observations on trap lines
and the habits and habitat of the goose
have left a strong impression that very few
if any geese are taken in steel traps on
the Sanctuary.

In conclusion it is only fair to state that
the marshes, from the least attractive to
the best, show the result of skilful manage-
ment. To judge by the results, the object
has been to make the Sanctuary as attrac-
tive to wild fowl as the condition of the
lands and the facilities permit.

(Signed) ROBERT K. ENDERS

The awful wrongs and sufferings forced
upon the innocent, helpless, faithful animal
race, form the blackest chapter in the whole
world’s history.

E. A. FREEMAN

 

 




 

-__...f— —

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 144

“ Sorrow is a Secret Thing”

GWENNIE JAMES

Like the little red for that creeps away
To his hidden den in the park,

Cowering, and peering with pain-bright eyes
Through the warm and friendly dark,
I must be taking my pain away
To shelter it from the light of day.

Like the bobolink on the swaying stalk,
That swells his throat with glee,
I must bare my joy to the wind and the
world
Lest I burst with ecstasy;

For grief is a hidden, secret thing,
But joy is a song—and a bird must sing.

Ernest A. Legg

Ernest A. Legg, educational director of
the Connecticut Humane Society, Hartford,
died while on vacation at South Thomaston,
Maine, August 2. Mr. Legg had been in
poor health for several years. He was a
graduate of Boston University, and had
served as a pastor in several Methodist
Episcopal churches before coming to Hart-
ford to take a position with the Humane
Society there. For ﬁve years he had been
editor of the Connecticut Humane Bulletin,
organ of the Society. He was an able writer
and lecturer on humane topics, of genial
personality and sterling character, whose
passing is a very real loss to the cause of
humane education.

 

IN THE EDITOR’S LIBRARY

 

THE DOG, James Dickie.

The information and advice contained in
this reliable and attractive book may well
be availed of by owners of dogs, actual or
prospective. Herein may be found in under-
standable language the answers to the hun-
dreds of questions that are continuously
asked.

The author, an English authority, has
covered a wide ﬁeld. The volume repre-
sents his many contributions published seri-
ally under the title “You and Your Dog”
in the Daily Sketch. All dogs of British
and a few foreign breeds are discussed.
From the choosing and buying of the puppy,
keeping it in health and training it in the
way it should grow, this book will be among
the best of guides. There are a hundred
excellent illustrations showing late champ-
ions and some of their progenitors of long
ago. It is a veritable storehouse of well-
ordered information. 189 pp., $2.50. J. B.
Lippincott Co., Philadelphia.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

“Pedrito”

ATrue Story
ROBERT SPIE‘RS BENJAMIN

S an explorer and adventurer, John

Newman Page has seen some strange
things and has had some unusual experi-
ences. Since boyhood he has strayed far
from his home in Fairmount, North Dakota.
He has soldiered, sailored, plowed, sowed,
threshed, harvested, logged, clerked, boxed,
radioed and hoboed his way around the
world many times as a correspondent for
Hearst.

Strangely enough, it remained for a dog
to provide what Page terms his most inter-
esting experience in a life closely crowded
with thrills. It happened three or four
years "ago when he was “hooﬁng it” through
the Mixteca Alta region of the Southern
Mexican State of Oaxaca, behind a burro
which packed his waterproof tent and other
camping supplies.

A mile or so below the mountain-top town
of Tilantongo he found a brisk little stream,
well stocked with trout. Making camp on
the banks of this stream for an overnight
stay, John Page lingered for weeks. He
had many visitors, for the natives were a
friendly lot and his portable phonograph
was an added attraction to the music lov—
ing or just plain curious Indians of the
district.

Chief among these natives was a lovable
old half-breed, his nearest neighbor, who
lived a mile or so down the stream, and his
shaggy collie dog. The native’s name was
Pedro and the dog’s, “Pedrito.” Peter and
“Little Peter.” It seemed to Page that the
dog was no less human than his master.

Every day at two the old Indian and his
pet would come trotting through the woods
to Page’s tent, the half-breed to enjoy the
music of the phonograph and the dog for
the choice morsels of food that Page always
kept for him. Pedrito probably thought the
meat and bones poor enough recompense for
the terrible tortures of the canned music he
had to endure. Soon, all three became in-
separable companions. At six each evening
the two trotted back again, to their farm
shack.

Natives of Tilantongo, partially for lack
of anything better to do, mostly because of
custom, all went to sleep at eight in the
evening. So, also, did John Newman Page
retire at that hour.

One night, after some eight days’ encamp-
ment, the American was startled out of his
sleep by stealthy movements in the woods
beyond. Jumping off his army cot, he
peered cautiously through the tent ﬂap. The

 

 

TO OUR FRIENDS

In making your will, kindly bear in mind that the corporate title of our Society is “The
Massachusetts Socxety for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals”: that it is the second
incorporated (March, 1868) Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals in the country
and that it has no connection with any other similar Society. ,

Any bequest especially intended for the beneﬁt of the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital
should, nevertheless, be made to The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals “for the use of the Hospital,” as the Hospital is not incorporated but is the
property of that Society and is conducted by it.

FORM or BEQUEST

I give to The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruel t A '
to The American Humane Education Society), the sum of .......... ty. . i). . .nimalns it)?

dollars (or, if other property, describe the property).

 

 

Sept. 1934

moon, high in the heavens, illuminated the
dense thicket beyond. The wind moaned
eerily through the trees and the hushed
sound of a distant waterfall was wafted
gently up the stream.

Suddenly, from close at hand, a white
ﬁgure limped out of the brush. It barked
softly and gasped for breath—Pedrito! It
fought its way up to the tent and collapsed
at the camper’s feet. In a moment, how—
ever, before Page could recover from the
surprise, the animal had regained his feet,
barked loudly and made a dash for the out-
side. It did not take long for Page to
understand what the dog wanted.

St00ping down to give an understanding
pat to the creature, his hand came away
wet with sticky blood. In Pedrito’s side was
a huge gash where a machete had bitten
deep. It was a miracle that the dog had
been able to make the long trip from his
master’s hut. As swiftly as he could, Page
gave the animal’s wounds a temporary
dressing and, grabbing up his medicine kit
and riﬂe, he trotted along, still in his pa—
jamas, beside the agonized dog toward
Pedro’s. Only undying love and faith for
his master kept that pitiful dog going then.

Finally, they reached the hut on. Pedro’s
small farm. Outside, the ﬁgure that lay
sprawled in a pool of blood, machete still
in hand, gave grim testimony of the attack
by bandits. Page had guessed as much, back
at his tent. He ripped off Pedro’s shirt and
felt his heart. It was still beating. Blood
oozed slowly from machete hacks in the na—
tive’s side and arms. Turning him over and
tearing off all clothing, Page worked fever—
ishly, with only the moonlight to guide him,
sewing up the gaping hole in. the Mexican’s
side and applying antiseptics to the wounds.
Then, making sure that Pedro was as com-
fortable as possible, he turned his attention
to the motionless dog who lay a few feet
from his master. A few more stitches, this
time in the dog, and all would be well,
thought Page. But Pedrito had stolen sil-
ently westward, happy even in death at the
assurance of his owner’s safety.

John Newman Page has been thrust at,
hacked at, shot at. Wild animals have
charged him in the wilderness, yet never
till his dying day will he forget the time a
dying collie used him as an instrument for
saving his master’s life.

Join the Jack London Club and help stop

the cruelty of trained animal acts.

Our Dumb Animals

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston Ofﬁce; 180 Longwood Av-
en

 

ue.
Address all communications to Boston.

TERMS

One dollar per year. Postage free to any part of
the world.

Humane Societies and Agents are invited to cor-
respond with us for terms on large orders.

All dollar subscriptions sent direct to the ofﬁce en-
title the sender to membership in either of our two
Societies.

RATES OF MEMBERSHIP IN

THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
. OR THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.

Active Life $100 00 Active Annual $10 00
Associate Life 50 00 Associate Annual 5 00
Sustaining 20 00 Annual 1 00

Childrens $0.75

Checks and other payments may be sent to ALBERT
%. POLLARD, Treasurer, 180 Longwood Avenue,
oston.

Manuscripts should be addressed to the Editor,
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston

 




 

 

 

___.WV— 4 4-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Pagcl68
Our Dumb Animals

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston Ofﬁce; 180 Longwood Av-
enue, Boston, Mass., to which all communications
should be addressed.

Dr. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON, Editor .
WILLIAM M. MORRILL, Assistant

NOVEMBER, 1934

FOR TERMS, see back cover.

AGENTS to take orders for Our Dumb Animals are
wanted everywhere. Liberal commissions are offered.

EDITORS of all periodicals who receive this pub-
lication this month are invited to reprint any of the
articles with or without credit.

MANUSCRIPTS relating to animals, particularly
prose articles of about three hundred words are solic-
ited. We do not wish to consider prose manuscripts
longer than 800 words, nor verse in excess of thirty-
six lines. The shorter the better. All manuscripts
should be typewritten and an addressed envelope with
full return postage enclosed with each offering.

 

 

 

 

The Government’s Poison-
ing Campaign

OW many of Our readers know that

last year 153,000 ounces of strych-
nine purchased with P. W. A. and E. C. W.
funds were used to spread 3,000,000 acres
with poison? The Chief of the Federal De-
partment, the U. S. Bureau of Biological
Survey, in charge of this work, says this
which has been going on for years, “is to
make possible the control of animals respon-
sible for the damage to crops and forage.”
Yet, strange to say that in the report of the
American Society of Mammalogists for 1931
this poisoning campaign is denounced as
“the most destructive organized agency that
has ever menaced so many species of our
native fauna.” This poisoning campaign
calls for a Ten Year Extermination Pro-
gram at an expense of $10,000,000.

In addition to the condemnation of this
poisoning business of the American So-
ciety of Mammalogists, what have other
scientiﬁc bodies to say about it? The fol-
lowing have protested against it and signed
a petition to the Government that it be
abandoned:

The California Academy of Sciences

The Field Museum of Natural History,
Chicago

The American Museum of Natural His-
tory, New York City

The Faculty of the University of Cali-
fornia

The New York Zoological Society

The University of Michigan

The San Diego Natural History Society

The Boston Society of Natural History

The California Institute of Technology,
Pasadena

The Academy of Natural Sciences, Phila-
delphia

The Indiana Academy of Sciences

The Emergency Conservation Committee,
New York City

More friends are needed to endow stalls
and new kennels in the Angel] Memorial
Animal Hospital. Payments of thirty-ﬁve
dollars for a kennel or seventy-ﬁve dollars
for a stall will insure a suitable marker
inscribed with donor’s name. Terms of
permanent endowment of free stalls and
kennels will be given upon application.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Chicago and Vivisection

SERIOUS controversy is going on in

Chicago over the subject of Vivisec—
tion. It seems that by virtue of a city or-
dinance, universities, colleges, medical
schools, laboratories, hospitals and institu-
tions having to do with medicine and sur-
gery are permitted to take, without cost,
from the dog pound for experimentation
a certain percentage of the dogs brought
there. Since December, 1931, an article in
the Chicago Herald says, 22,000 dogs have
been so disposed of. For example, during
1933 alone 2,430 have been turned over to
Northwestern University, 1,850 to the Chi-
cago University, 1,730 to the University
of Illinois. This certainly would seem to
indicate that, the supply being abundant,
a more or less reckless indifference has pre-
vailed as to the use of the supply.

At the moment inquiry is being made to
discover whether, because so many dogs can
be obtained by these institutions, it is not
true that many are used in needless repe-
tition of experiments and too often not for
really scientiﬁc purposes but to gratify
some insigniﬁcant curiosity. So far these
institutions have made no reply to the
question. Many people, not anti-Vivisec—
tionists, are anxious to learn if the unlim-
ited supply at the city pound did not exist
if anything like this number of dogs, 22,000,
would have been subjected to Vivisection
during a little more than two years. No
matter what one’s opinion is as to Vivisec—
tion, no one deserving of respect would
want a single helpless creature subjected
to needless pain. The article from which
we have quoted says that many are appalled
by the freedom with which Vivisection is
practised in the city. Efforts are being
made to secure from the schools obtaining
these dogs information as to how far they
can justify themselves in the name of
science in sacriﬁcing so many homeless un-
fortunate dogs.

The Birds or the Bugs

It’s life or death. At least the men of
science whose lives are spent in the study
of the subject tell us that if all the birds
were destroyed “human life would dlis-
appear from the planet by starvation in
something like nine years.” To kill,
especially any insect-eating birds, is a veri-
table crime against the race. Disastrous
as has been the work of some of the insect
pests in this country, think of what an eye
witness wrote recently in the Saturday
Evening Post: “can you picture a cloud of
ﬂying insects 60 miles long, 15 miles Wide,
and 200 feet deep? No one can. Yet I
have seen just such swarms.” The battle
with these invincible armies lasted 15 days.
It was in vain. Once fertile farms were
left like ﬁre stricken acres. No wonder
many a farmer “locust-broken” gave up in
despair. This was in Northern Rhodesia,
South Africa. It may be true that hu-
manity’s most dreaded foes will prove to
be no other than the insects. They may yet
destroy us. Would that every teacher in
every school in every land would plead with
every boy to spare the birds.

Remember the Mass. S.P.C.A. in your will.

Nov. 1931;

What Shall We Think of
This?

VEN the destruction of animals is in-

cluded in the plan. Could anything be
more incredible than that any sane person
should accept such a proposal as that which
appeared August 4 last in an editorial in the
magazine known as Liberty?. Here it is
under the title “Collect our Foreign Debts
——Here’s How”:

“We have the colossal force, the means
to collect these debts, right at hand. All
we need is the intelligence and the deter-
mination to act with precision and courage.
Suppose we were to equip an aerial navy
of 100 airplane carriers with 10,000 planes;
and suppose we should send ten of these
airplane carriers with a thousand planes
on a round-the-world cruise, visiting every
important nation. And suppose we were
to make a demonstration in each of these
countries of the devastating power of these
aerial ships by tearing up a mountainside
or a section of arid land, or by the use of
poison gas destroy all animal life in a wild
uninhabited section of the country. Do
you think we would have any trouble collect—
ing our debts from such a. country after
making such a demonstration? Payments
would come in automatically.” Yet, after
all, it is perhaps fortunate for our country
that in this case at least riches and dema-
goguery are joined with so little cleverness
and with such an amazing lack of humor.

The inanity of this editorial must cause
the average citizen to smile rather than to
take it seriously.

Conserving to Kill

Under this heading the Christian Science
Monitor in an editorial hits hard at much
that proudly, but hypocritically, parades
under the banner of “Conservation.” We
quote:

Yet what are the most recent reports?
“More than 7,000,000 sportsmen duly li-
censed by public authority; $310,000,000
spent annually for hunting equipment; sale
of pump guns and repeating riﬂes greatly
increased; in ﬁve leading game states dur-
ing the last decade, 40 per cent of the deer
destroyed, 70 per cent of the small game
mammals, 50 per cent of the quail and four-
ﬁfths of the possum, etc.; several species
of birds and mammals extinct or nearly
so; only 2 per cent of the birds and ani—
mals formerly inhabiting North America
now remain.” Contrast this with the com-
paratively puny efforts of nature lovers to
protect those over whom all mankind has
been given dominion by divine decree.

The solution is simple. Any schoolboy
with the facts before him could lay his
ﬁnger on the trouble in an instant. The
“sportsman’s” cry of “wolf” or falsetto
echo “save our wild life,” wouldn’t fool
him. The only right answer to such “shot-
gun conversation” as is practised today, is
to stop shooting.

Our readers are urged to clip from “Our
Dumb Animals” various articles and re-
quest their local editors to republish.
Copies so mutilated will be made good by
us upon application.




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 192

At the Columbus Convention

VERYBODY present at the ﬁfty—eighth
annual meeting of the American Hu-
mane Association, in Columbus, Ohio, Octo-
ber 9—11, pronounced it one of the best and
most interesting gatherings of the k1nd yet
held. There was good attendance, able
speakers, including Governor George. White
of Ohio, and many valuable d1scuss1ons of
pertinent anti-cruelty topics. The hosts, led
by President Amy W. Gill of the local Hu-
mane Society, made everybody feel at home,
even taking all the delegates to v1s1t the
Society’s modern shelter, which.se'rves as
the dog pound of the city, a building and
equipment of which Columbus 1s justly
oud.
prThe ﬁrst half of the program dealt with
matters pertaining to children’s work, the
climax coming with the public meetlng
Tuesday evening, when an array of Ohlo
legal lights discussed juvenile courts, the
Hon. Roland W. Gaggott of Dayton deliv-
ering an address characterized by rare
humor. Wednesday afternoon was glven up
to humane education, with papers by Mrs.
Charles S. Joyce of Pikesville, Md., Profes—
sor Leo P. Schleck of Madison, Wis., and
Guy Richardson of Boston, Mass. Wilford
E. Sanderson of the American Humane As—
sociation followed with a presentation of
the progress being made in trap reform. At
various sessions slides were shown by E. L.
Wickliff of Columbus, “Food Habits of
Hawks and Owls”; and ﬁlms by J. W. Stu-
ber of Columbus, “Conservation in Ohio”;
and Eric H. Hansen of St. Louis, “A Day
with the Humane Society of Missouri.”

Thursday Rev. A. W. S. Garden of Pitts-
burgh discussed the problem of the stray
dog; Mrs. Charles M. Kindel of Grand
Rapids, gave a vivid account of how Michi-
gan met the problem of feeding livestock
shipped into the state by the Government;
Robert F. Sellar of Boston presented an ex-
haustive study of efforts to prevent livestock
losses; Wm. F. H. Wentzel of Pittsburgh
told of the progress in perfecting the lethal
chamber for the destruction of small ani-
mals; and Mrs. Frank Sweeney described
her efforts in organizing a Humane Society
in Memphis, Tenn.

The annual banquet was held Wednesday
evening with a large attendance. Ofﬁcers
including President Sydney H. Coleman and
General Manager N. J. Walker, and direc-
tors of the Society, were re-elected for the
ensuing year.

An infallible characteristic of meanness
is cruelty. JOHNSON

OUR DUlllB ANIMALS

Animal Performances

Editorial in Times-Journal, St. Thomas, Ontario

SHOCKING story is reported from Ro-

chester, N .Y., when, in the presence of
thousands of spectators, a lion, Which had
been trained to ride on a horse’s back, sud-
denly attacked the horse in the arena, and
killed it. Satisﬁed with its handiwork, the
lion then completed its performance. The
reason attributed for the act is that the
ground had been wet owing to rain and
the horse slipped once or twice and nearly
threw the lion oﬂ". In his catty mind, Leo
no doubt reasoned it was done on purpose
and wreaked revenge. The spectators must
have been horriﬁed at the gory spectacle,
but the trainer was not disturbed. He says
he will train another horse for the stunt.

On Wednesday a lion broke out of a cage
during a circus parade at Richmond, Va.,
clawed and bit two horses, and was shot
before it killed anybody.

The Rochester incident should win many
recruits for the Jack London Club, the
members of which do not patronize enter-
tainments where there are animal perform-
ances; or, if there are any which they were
not aware of before going in, they walk out
until the particular turn is over.

Some circuses have renounced wild ani-
mal performances altogether in deference
to public opinion. It is not edifying to see
wild beasts, so cowed by fear that they obey
their trainers, do things which are as un-
natural and as foreign to their nature as it
would be for human beings to walk on all
fours and do tricks. One cannot but ad-
mire the courage of the men and women
who become animal trainers, but all of
them admit that they only make these
beasts respond through fear. Actual phy-
sical cruelty may not be a component part
of the method of attaining that end, but
there are other ways of inculcating fear,
such as ﬁring blank cartridges in their
faces which ﬁll all wild beasts with abject
terror. There is no such thing as a “tame”
wild animal. The term is contradictory in
expression and fact. Animal “tamers”
merely acquire dominion over wild animals
by fear.

It seems the utmost of cruelty to put
such a harmless, domestic animal as a horse
into an arena with lions, when it is not
ﬁtted by nature to defend itself if the
jungle animal takes it into its head to at-
tack it, and it is to be hoped that circus
proprietors will put an end to that type of
turn at least.

 

 

TO OUR FRIENDS

In making your will, kindly bear in mind that the corporate title of our Society is “The
Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals”: that it is the second
incorporated (March, 1868) Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals in the country,
and that it has no connection with any other similar Society.

Any bequest especially intended for the beneﬁt of the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital
should, nevertheless, be made to The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals “for the use of the Hospital,” as the Hospital is not incorporated but is the
property of that Society and is conducted by it.

FORM OF BEQUEST
I give to The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruel to Animals
to The American Humane Education Society), the sum of ty (or
dollars (or, if other property, describe the property).

 

 

Dec. 1931;

 

 

IN THE EDITOR’S LIBRARY

DOCTOR THINKRIGHT, Clarence
Hawkes.

This story by the blind author of some
forty successful books, many of which re-
lated to animals and have been reviewed in
these pages, is the kind of volume that will
be welcome in any Christmas stocking. It
is indeed encouraging to ﬁnd a work of ﬁc-

 

tion so sincere, so straight from the heart - i

of a ﬁne thinker. Like its great forerunner,
“A Christmas Carol,” it is too good to be
true, but it brings vividly the cheerful
spirit of Dickens into our troubled age. It
is wholesome, delightful, inspiring both to
young and old.

157 pp. $1.50. Thomas Y. Crowell Co.,
New York. .

Unlicensed Dogs Property

Lacker vs. Strauss
Massachusetts Laws, Vol. 226; page 579.

By the common law, as well as" by the
law of most states, dogs are so far recog-
nized as property that an action will lie
for their conversion or injury.

The general rule supported by the weight
of authority is that the owner of a dog,
licensed or unlicensed, may maintain an ac-
tion for damages against any person or
corporation wilfully or negligently killing
or injuring the animal.

We are of the opinion the general rule
should be followed as one sound in principle.

The unlicensed dog was not a trespasser
and outlaw upon the public highway.

From Supreme Court decision

Semi-Annual Statement

Statement of the ownership, management, circula-
tion, etc., of Our Dumb Animals, published monthly
at Norwood, Mass., required by the Act of August
24, 1912.

Publishers—The Massachusetts Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, Norwood, Mass.

Editor—Guy .Richardson, .Back Bay Station,
Boston, Mass.

Managing Editor—Francis H. Rowley, President,
Back Bay Station, Boston, Mass.

Business managers —- Officers of the Mass.
S. P. C. A.

Owners: (If a corporation, give names and ad-
dresses of stockholders holding 1 per cent or more
of total amount of stock.)

The Mass. Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals (Charitable Corporation). All funds
and property controlled by Board of Directors,
Francis H. Rowley, President; Guy Richardson,
Secretary; Albert A. Pollard, Treasurer.

Guy Richardson, Editor

Sworn to and subscribed before me, this twenty-
sixth day of October, 1934.

L. Willard Walker, Notary Public
[Seal] (My commission expires Jan. 21, 1938)

Our Dumb Animals

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston Ofﬁce; 180 Longwood AV-
enue.

Address all communications to Boston.

TERMS

One dollar per year. Postage free to any part of
the world.

. All dollar subscriptions sent direct to the office en-
tltle the sender to membership in either of our two
Societies.

RATES OF MEMBERSHIP IN
THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
OR THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.
Active Life $100 00 Active Annual $10 00
Associate Life 50 00 Associate Annual 500
Sustaining 20 00 Annual 1 00
Children’s $0.75 ,

Checks and other payments may be sent to ALBERT
A. POLLARD, Treasurer, 180 Longwood Avenue,
Boston. .
‘ Manuscripts should be addressed to the Editor.
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston.

 

 

 

 




 

ALHDOS NOIlVDﬂGEI HNVWﬂH NVDIUHWV- 3HJ. (INV
S-WWINV O_L ALWHHHD .:lO NOLLNHAEHd
3H_L HOJ LLEIDOS‘ SLLHSDHDVSSVW 3HJ.

 

 

 

 

 

(I7 933d 998) u CINCWVICI» CINV “.LHDIHSn

 

 

 

 

 

 

SiNEIO OI EIOIEIcI 1786| AHVHNVF




 

 

 

Founded by Geo. T. Angell. Incorporated March, 1868

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY 'RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds
JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman, Chase Harris Forbes
Corporation .
CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President, United Shoe
Machinery Corporation
PIBILIP STOCKTON, President, First National Bank of
oston

Prosecuting Ofﬁcers in Boston

Telephone (Complaints, Ambulances) Longwood 6100
L. WILLARD WALKER, Chief Oﬁ‘icer

HARRY L. ALLEN

HARVEY R. FULLER

WALTER B. POPE

DAVID A. BOLTON
HOWARD WILLAND

County Prosecuting Ofﬁcers

HERMAN N. DEAN, Boston

Middlesex, Norfolk and Plymouth
FRED T. VICKERS, Lynn Eastern Essex
WILLIAM W. HASWELL, Methuen Western Essex
THEODORE W. PEARSON, Springﬁeld,

Hampden, Hampshire and Franklin

ROBERT L. DYSON, Worcester Worcester
WINFIELD E. DUNHAM, New Bedford, Bristol
HAROLD G. ANDREWS, Hyann’is,

Barnstable, Dukes and Nantucket

 

, Pittsﬁeld Berkshire
Rest Farm for Horses and Small Animal Shelter,
Methuen

W. W. HASWELL, Superintendent

Women’s Auxiliary of the Mass. S. P. C. A., 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston—MRS. EDITH WASHBURN
CLARKE, Pres.; MRS. A. J. FURBUSH, Treas.; MRS.
AGNES P. FISHER, Ch. Work Com.

Springﬁeld Branch—MRS. DONALD C. KIBBE, Pres.;
MRS. AARON BAGG, Treas.

Winchester Branch—MRS. RICHARD s. TAYLOR,
Pres.; MISS BESSIE SMALL, Treas.

MONTHLY REPORT OF OFFICERS
Miles traveled by humane oﬂicers. . 10,613

Cases investigated ............... 422
Animals examined .............. 4,339
Number of prosecutions .......... 9
Number of convictions .......... 8
Horses taken from work .......... 11
Horses humanely put to sleep ..... 94
Small animals humanely put to
sleep ........................ 894
Stock-yards and Abattoirs
Animals inspected .............. 35,357
Cattle, swine and sheep humanely ~
put to sleep .................. 11

The Massachusetts Society for the Pre-
vention Of Cruelty to Animals has been re-
membered in the wills of Helen S. Thomas
of Boston, Clara B. Colby Rose of Man-
chester, New Hampshire, Abby W. Hunt of
Beverly, and Bertha Ellen Tuttle of Boston.

January 9, 1934.

Our readers are urged to clip from “Our
Dumb Animals” various articles and re-
quest their local editors to republish.
Copies so mutilated will be made good by
us upon application.

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

Angell Memorial Animal Hospital
and
Dispensary for Animals

184 Longwood Avenue, Telephone, Longwood 6100

Veterinarians

. DAILEY, v. M. D., Chief of Staff

. SCHNEIDER, V. M. D., Asst. Chief
. SCHROEDER, D. V. M.

. SCHNELLE, v. M. D.

. MUNSON, V. M. D.

. BLAKELY, v. M. D.

HARRY L. ALLEN, Superintendent

Springﬁeld Branch
53-57 Bliss Street, Springﬁeld, Mass.
THEODORE W. PEARSON, General Manager
Veterinarians

A. R. EVANS, V. M. D.
H. L. SMEAD, D. V. M.

OEPHPF
bownma

 

 

 

HOSPITAL REPORT FOR DECEMBER
Including Springﬁeld Branch

Hospital Dispensary
Cases entered 643 Cases 2,099
Dogs 490 Dogs 1,727
Cats 143 Cats 330
Horses 4 . Birds 35
Birds 3 Horses 3
Rabbit 1 Rabbits 2
Goat 1 Turtles 2

Rat 1

Operations 1,003
Hospital cases since opening, Mar.

1, 1915 ....................... 116,556
Dispensary Cases ............... 267,249
Total ........................ 383,805

The Month in the Springﬁeld Branch

Cases entered in Hospital .......... 104
Cases entered in Dispensary ....... 248
Operations ........................ 169

MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A. IN THE
COURTS

Summary of Prosecutions in December

For failing to provide proper shelter
from the weather for two dogs, a defend-
ant was found guilty of the charge and was
ﬁned $25. He was given a month’s time to
pay the ﬁne.

Two defendants (owner and driver of a.

horse) were charged with unnecessarily
failing to provide proper food, drink, shel-
ter and protection from the weather for the
animal. The case against the owner was
placed on ﬁle. Driver who had charge and
custody pleaded nolo and was ﬁned $25.

Another defendant failed to provide
proper food, drink and shelter for twenty-
five fowls. He also pleaded nolo, was fined
$35 and give-n two weeks to pay.

The owner of seven head of young cattle
kept the animals in open pasture till the
last week in November, no shelter and but
scanty feed. He was found guilty and ﬁned

15.
$ Two youthful offenders were convicted of
cruelly driving and beating a horse. The
court placed them both on probation.

For cruelly shooting at a dog with ﬁne
shot, a defendant was found guilty. After
disposing of the dog and paying a veterin-
arian’s fee for treating dog the court put
the man on probation.

. Dog World estimates the number of dogs
fin the United States at approximately
" 12,000,000. The states of New York and
Pennsylvania annually receive for dog li-
censes more than $1,500,000.

Page 25
Edwin Davis Moody

DWIN D. MOODY, for the past eight

and a half years a humane Oﬁ‘icer of
the Massachusetts Society for the Preven-
tion of Cruelty to Animals, passed away
suddenly at his home in Pittsﬁeld, Dec. 18,
after a heart attack.

Born and educated in Massachusetts, Mr.
Moody early entered upon a career of use-
fulness and honor. He enlisted in the late
war and serve-d eighteen months overseas
in the First Division Engineers’ Corps. On
his return he became a member of the
Massachusetts State Police until appointed
an agent of the S. P. C. A.

Well-ﬁtted by education, experience and
temperament, Mr. Moody represented the
Society and the cause he loved most
creditably. He was assigned to Berkshire
County in December, 1927, and quickly
gained the good-will and co-Operation of
citizens, police authorities and the courts
throughout his district. In his work of
animal protection and welfare he was
resourceful, efﬁcient and diplomatic. In
covering so wide a ﬁeld as was his he per-
fected a lethal chamber, attached it to hIS

’ car and humanely put to sleep the small

animals he was called upon to dispose of by
the exhaust of carbon monoxide gas. HIS
enthusiasm for photography enabled him at
times to present photographs of anlmals or
conditions affecting them as his ev1dence In
court cases. Kindly and sympathetic by
nature, aﬁable and approachable towards
all who sought his aid or counsel, Mr. Moody
had a high conception Of the dutles whlch
his Oﬂ‘ice demanded. He was 36 years of age
and is survive-d by a wife and four sons.

New School Pamphlet

Former Governor, Percival P. Baxter, of
Maine, recently wrote to Miss Luc1a F.
Gilbert, field worker of the Amerlcan Hu-
mane Education Society, as follows:

Dear Miss Gilbert:—

Your “An Early Start TO Kindness” is
one of the most appealing humane docu-
ments that I have ever seen. It is just what
is needed for the little folks in the early
grades of our schools. I congratulate you
upon what you have done for the humane
cause. The Lincoln anecdotes are a most
appropriate introduction to the stones,
poems and friendly advice that follow
through the forty-eight pages.

Cordially,

(Signed) PERCIVAL P. BAXTER

Copies of this valuable pamphlet may be
Obtained for ten cents each, postpald to
any address. Liberal discount to humane
societies and school Ofﬁcials for large
orders. American Humane Education, So-

ciety, Boston.

More friends are needed to endow stalls
and new kennels in the Angel] Memorial
Animal Hospital. Payments of thirty-ﬁve
dollars for a kennel or seventy-ﬁve dollars
for a stall will insure a suitable marker
inscribed with donor’s name. Terms of per-
manent endowment of free stalls and ken-
nels will be given upon application to the
Massachusetts 5. P. C. A., 180 Longwood

Avenue, Boston.

 




 

 

APRIL l934 PRICE IO CENTS

 

 

 

 

 

BUF F ALO DRINKING AT WATER-HOLE, WAIN WRIGHT, ALBERTA

 

 

 

 

THE MASSACHUSETTS SOCIETY FOR THE
PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS
AND THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY

Humane Sunday, April 15; Be Kind to Animals Week, April 16-21, 1934

 

 

 




 

 

 

l
1‘
I
r

 

 

 

 

 

May, 1934

 

Founded by Geo. T. Angell.

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

' ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

‘PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Incorporated March, 1868

Trustees of Permanent Funds

JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board

CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President, United Shoe
Machinery Corporation

PHILIP STOCKTON, President, First National Bank of
Boston

Prosecuting Ofﬁcers in Boston

Telephone (Complaints Ambulances) Longwood 6100
L. WILLARD WALKER, Chief Ofﬁcer

HARRY L. ALLEN DAVID A. BOLTON
HARVEY R. FULLER HOWARD WILLAND

County Prosecuting Ofﬁcers
HERMAN N. DEAN, Boston
Middlesex, Norfolk and Plymouth
FRED T. VICKERS, Lynn Eastern Essex
WILLIAM W. HAsw-ELL, Methuen Western Essex

THEODORE W. PEARSON, Springﬁeld
Hampden, Hampshire and Franklin

ROBERT L. DYSON, Worcester Worcester
WINFIELD E. DUNHAM, New Bedford Bristol

HAROLD G. ANDREWS, Hyannis,
Barnstable, Dukes and Nantucket

T. KING HASWELL, Pittsﬁeld Berkshire

Rest Farm for Horses and Small Animal Shelter,
Methuen

W. W. HASWELL, Superintendent

Women’s Auxiliary of the Mass. S. P. C..A., 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston—MRS. EDITH WASHBURN
CLARKE, Pres.; MRS. A. J. FURBUSH, Treas.; MRS.
AGNES P. FISHER, Ch. Work Com.

Springﬁeld Branch—MRS. DONALD C. KIBBE, Pres.;

MRS. AARON BAGG, Treas.

Winchester Branch—MRS. RICHARD S. TAYLOR,
Pres.; MISS BESSIE SMALL, Treas.

MONTHLY REPORT OF OFFICERS

Miles traveled by humane ofﬁcers. . 15,340
Cases investigated .............. 449
Animals examined ............... 5,140
Number of prosecutions .......... 13
Number of convictions ........... 13
Horses taken from work .......... 10
Horses humanely put to sleep ..... 29
Small animals humanely put to sleep 1,186
Stock-yards and Abattoirs

Animals inspected ............... 47,068
Cattle, swine and sheep humanely

put to sleep ................... 98

The Massachusetts Society for the Pre-
vention of Cruelty to Animals has been re-
membered in the wills of Sarah J. Rice of
Waltham, Nellie M. Morse of Orange, Philip
G. Peabody of Dorchester, Emma Ruddock
Bannister of Groveland, Paul W. Jackson
of Braintree, and Caroline A. Saunders of
Georgetown.

The American Humane Education Society
has been remembered in the will of Eliza-
beth F. Noble of Schenectady, New York.

April 10, 1934.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS.

 

ANGELL MEMORIAL ANIMAL
HOSPITAL

and Dispensary for Animals

184 Longwood Avenue Telephone, Longwood 6100
Veterinarians

. DAILEY, v.M.D., Chief of Staff
. SCHNEIDER, v.M.D., Asst. Chief
. SCHROEDER, D.V.M.

. SCHNELLE, v.M.D.

. MUNSON, v.M.D.

. BLAKELY, v.M.D.

HARRY L. ALLEN, Superintendent

Springﬁeld Branch

53-57 Bliss Street, Springﬁeld, Mass.
THEODORE W. PEARSON, General Manager
Veterinarians

A. R. EVANS, v.M.D.
H. L. SMEAD, D.V.M.

Gamma;
rename

 

 

 

HOSPITAL REPORT FOR MARCH
Including Springﬁeld Branch

Hospital Dispensary
Cases entered 848 Cases 2,100
Dogs 645 Dogs 1,654
Cats . 181 Cats 414
Horses 12 Birds 28
Birds 7 Squirrel 1
Goats 2 Hen 1
Monkey 1 Goat 1
, - ‘ Skunk 1

Operations 1,097

HOSpital cases Since opening, Mar.

1, 1915- ....................... 118,730
Dispensary Cases ............... 273,244
Total ........................ 391,974

The Month in the Springﬁeld Branch

Cases entered in Hospital .......... 121
Cases entered in Dispensary ........ 278
Operations ........................ 207

MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A. IN THE

COURTS
Summary of Prosecutions in March

For cruelly wounding a dog with gunshot,
after which animal lived two weeks in
woods and until humanely destroyed, de-
fendant was given two months at House of
Correction. He appealed but later withdrew
appeal and served sentence. -

One who had charge and custody of a
horse, cow and two heifers pleaded guilty
to failure to provide them with food, drink,
Shelter and protection from the weather. He
was ﬁned $100.

Four other defendants were in court on
similar charges, viz., failure to provide for
stock. One was ﬁned $25, another $50.
Cases of others were continued, pending dis-
posal of stock or repair and improvement
of shelters. ,

For cruelly shooting at and wounding a
cat, offender was convicted and was put on
probation for three months.

One juvenile defendant, charged with
overdriving and beating a horse, was sent
to Lyman School for an indeﬁnite term.

For non-feeding his hogs offender was
found guilty and case continued with pro-
viso that he dispose of all hogs.

A motorist pleaded guilty to the charge
of abandoning a cat. The case was ﬁled on
his payment of costs. A witness in this case
received the Society’s reward for his evi-
dence which resulted in a conviction.

For his delay in relieving suffering of
two cows which had broken through the
ﬂoor of a motor truck on a night when

Page ’73

 

Dog Officer Wins Medal

HIS white collie fell through the ice at

Sabbatia Lake, Taunton. The lady at
the left of the picture, Mrs. McCarthy, saw
the accident and immediately called for help.
Mr. O’Keefe, standing at the right, is the
dog ofﬁcer who broke through the ice, get-
ting immersed in the cold water, and saved
the dog. For this act of kindness and hero-
ism on his part the Society granted him a
medal which was presented to him by Mrs.
Howard F. Woodward, president of the
Taunton Branch of the Massachusetts S.
P. C. A., who stands in the middle holding
the dog.

5,000,000 Fluffy, Doomed
Chicks

New-born ﬂuffy yellow chicks, “very cun-
ning,” have been distributed in millions for
Easter ornamentation in restaurants and
for the amusement of children, says Arthur
Brisbane in “The Evening News,” Harris-
burg, Pa.

Petaluma, California, the world’s great-
est poultry center, sends out ﬁve million
Easter chicks. Shipped immediately after
hatching, they can travel a long distance
without food or water, living on what they
got from the egg.

A majority of these baby chicks die, of
neglect or ignorance, still looking “very
cunning.”

 

 

 

temperature was below zero, defendant
driver from New York State, was found
guilty and ﬁned $15 as costs.

A defendant was ﬁned $50, suspended for
three months, for underfeeding his herd of
twenty-six cattle during the month of Feb-
ruary. Another for improper feeding and
inadequate shelter for cattle, calves and
swine, was convicted and case was ﬁled on
payment of costs.

For causing unnecessary suffering to a
horse which he abandoned over night in the
mud by the side of the road, defendant was
given a two-months’ sentence at House of
Correction, which was suspended for s1x
months.

Five game‘cocks were seized from an auto-
mobile and the driver was charged w1th
possessing them with the intent that they
should be engaged in the exhibition of ﬁght-
ing. On a plea of guilty he was ﬁned $100.
The court ordered the five cocks forfeited
and to be destroyed by humane officer.

 

 

 

 




AND THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY

THE MASSACHUSETTS SOCIETY FOR THE
PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

FRIENDLY MOOSE ROAM FREE IN PRESERVES OF WESTERN CANADA

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

FWMCE

IO CENTS

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

Founded by Geo. T. Angell. Incorporated March, 1868

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds

JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board
CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President, United Shoe
Machinery Corporation
PIgLIP STOCKTON, President, First National Bank of
oston

Prosecuting Ofﬁcers in Boston

Telephone (Complaints, Ambulances) Longwood 6100
L. WILLARD WALKER, Chief Oﬁicer
HARRY L. ALLEN DAVID A. BOLTON
HARVEY R. FULLER HOWARD WILLAND
County Prosecuting Ofﬁcers

HERMAN N. DEAN, Boston
Middlesex, Norfolk and Plymouth

FRED T. VICKERS, Lynn Eastern Essex
WILLIAM W. HASWELL, Methuen Western Essex

THEODORE W. PEARSON, Springﬁeld
Hampden, Hampshire and Franklin

ROBERT L. DYSON, Worcester Worcester
WINFIELD E. DUNHAM, New Bedford Bristol

HAROLD G. ANDREWS, Hyannis,
Barnstable, Dukes and Nantucket

T. KING HASWELL, Pittsﬁeld Berkshire
Rest Farm for Horses and Small Animal Shelter,
Methuen

W. W. HASWELL, Superintendent

Women’s Auxiliary of the Mass. S. P. C. A., 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston—MRS. EDITH WASHBURN
CLARKE, Pres.; MRS. A. J. FURBUSH, Treas.; MRS.
AGNES P. FISHER, Ch. Work Com.

Springﬁeld Branch—MRS. DONALD C. KIBBE, Pres.;
MRS. AARON BAGG, Treas.

Winchester Branch—MRS. RICHARD S. TAYLOR,
Pres.; MISS BESSIE SMALL, Treas.

MONTHLY REPORT OF SOCIETY
AND BRANCHES

Miles traveled by humane Oﬂicers. . 12,837

Cases investigated ............... 523
Animals examined ............... 5,513
Animals placed in homes .......... 66
Lost animals restored to owners. . . . 22
Number of prosecutions ........... 5
Number of convictions ............ 3
Horses taken from work .......... 36
Horses humanely put to sleep . . . . . 31

Small animals humanely put to sleep 1,876
Stock-yards and Abattoirs

Animals inspected ................ 46,984
Cattle, swine and sheep humanely
put to sleep ............ ; ...... 16

The Massachusetts Society for the Pre-
vention of Cruelty to Animals has been
remembered in the wills of Frederic A.
Bissell of Brookline, and Frances E. Pen-
dexter of Chelsea.

July 10, 1934.

A Rest and Boarding Farm for Horses
is maintained by the Massachusetts S. P.
C. A. at Methuen. Only $3.50 pays the
expense of a week’s vacation for some
deserving horse.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

ANGELL MEMORIAL ANIMAL
HOSPITAL

and Dispensary for Animals

184 Longwood Avenue Telephone, Longwood 6100
Veterinarians

. DAILEY, v.M.D., Chief of Staff
. SCHNEIDER, v.M.D., Asst. Chief
. SCHROEDER, D.v.M.

. SCHNELLE, v.M.D.

. MUNSON, v.M.D.

. BLAKELY, v.M.D.

HARRY L. ALLEN, Superintendent

Springﬁeld Branch

53-57 Bliss Street, Springﬁeld, Mass.
THEODORE W. PEARSON, General Manager
Veterinarians

A. R. EVANS, v.M.D.
H. L. SMEAD, D.v.M.

passes
EOWWMq

 

 

 

HOSPITAL REPORT FOR JUNE
Including Springﬁeld Branch

Hospital Dispensary
Cases entered 751 Cases 2,650
Dogs 588 Dogs 2,208
Cats 147 Cats 366
Birds 9 Birds 60
Monkeys 3 Horses 8
Horses 2 Rats 3
Sheep 2 Turtles 2

. Goat 1
Sheep 1
Monkey 1
Operations 934
Hospital cases since Opening, Mar.
1, 1915 ....................... 120,945
Dispensary Cases ................ 280,484
Total ......................... 401,429

The Month in the Springﬁeld Branch

Cases entered in Hospital ........... 116
Cases entered in Dispensary ......... 360
Operations ........................ 168

MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A. IN THE
COURTS

Some Prosecutions in June

A farmer who was the owner of two dogs
was charged with cruelly overloading and
beating them. He had yoked them in harness
with bridles and bits, and was using them
in plowing his ﬁeld when the temperature
was near 90°. Defendant pleaded not guilty.
The Court took notice that in some countries
dogs are used for work but considered the
use of bits in the excessive heat was suf-
ﬁcient cruelty to warrant a ﬁnding of guilty.
The defendant was given a suspended sen-
tence of thirty days and put on probation
for two years.

For driving a pair of horses that were-
afflicted with gall sores under harness, a de-
fendant pleaded guilty. He was ﬁned $50,
which was suspended for one year.

For permitting a dog to be subjected to
unnecessary cruelty and suffering in a hit—
and-run case, the driver of the car pleaded
nolo. He was ﬁned $20 and given a week’s
time to pay the ﬁne.

J. W. Young, Bismarck, Illinois, who buys
horses and mules throughout a 150-mile
radius in central Illinois and Indiana, re-
ports that it is his Observation that farmers
have deﬁnitely gone back to horses for farm
work and the predominant desire of most
farmers today is to raise aS many colts as
they can at the earliest possible moment to
take care of their future replacement needs.

Page 191

For Animal Welfare

Springﬁeld Branch Presents Fine Program
With Many Attractions

UNE DAY,” arranged by the Women’s

Auxiliary of the Springﬁeld Branch of
the Massachusetts Society for the Preven-
tion of Cruelty to Animals, was observed
on the beautiful and spacious estate of
Mr. and Mrs. Charles N. Denault of Long-
meadow. The occasion brought an attend—
ance of fully 2,000 who were attracted by
a program in the interests of animal wel-
fare. Many colorful events marked the. fes-
tivities during the long afternoon of enter-
tainment, in which some of the Special
features are noteworthy. Dessert bridge was
enjoyed at sixty tables located on an upper
terrace under the shade trees, followed by
an English May pageant near the Japan-
ese garden, featuring folk dancing and pre-
sented by community players.

The exhibition horsemanship events in
six classes brought out many socially prom-
inent lady riders. Of paramount interest
also was the pet animal Show in which
more than one hundred dogs, numerous
other animals and birds were entered. All
were judged and prizes and honors awarded.

Mrs. John Whittemore Harris was gen-
eral chairman for the affair, assisted by
officers, members of the ways and means
committee, committee chairmen and mem-
bers of the Auxiliary. The ofﬁcers assisting
included Mrs. Donald C. Kibbe, president;
Mrs. George A. Bacon, vice-president; Mrs.
Dwight W. Ellis, Mrs. M. F. Peterson, and
Mrs. William M. Hubbard Of Holyoke,
directors. Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke,
president of the Women’s Auxiliary of the
Angell Memorial Hospital, Boston, assisted
in judging the horses and pets.

The affair was one Of the best attended
and most successful given in support of ani-
mal welfare, and far surpassed the expecta-
tions of the committees in the interest
Shown. Proceeds will be added to the treas-
ury of the Women’s Auxiliary of the Spring-
ﬁeld branch of the Society for the Preven-
tion Of Cruelty to Animals, and will be used
in behalf of animals in that city and vicinity.

Water for Work-Horses

Five watering stations for horses were
opened in Boston on June 26 by the Mass.
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals. During the torrid days that im-
mediately followed they afforded indispen-
sable relief to working animals many times
a day. An attendant is present daily at each
station to assist in giving water to all
comers and the service is free. So long as
drinking fountains and running water for
animals are disallowed in the city it is
upon these relief stations that work-horses
must now rely. To fail them would entail
great suffering. Contributions for the sup-
port of this service will be gratefully
received.

More friends are needed to endow stalls
and new kennels in the Angell Memorial
Animal Hospital. Payments of thirty-ﬁve
dollars for a kennel or seventy-ﬁve dollars
for a stall will insure a suitable marker
inscribed with donor’s name. Terms of
permanent endowment of free stalls and
kennels will be given upon application.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

OCTOBER l934 . PRICE IO CENTS
THE MASSACHUSETTS SOCIETY FOR THE
PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS ;
AND THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY

 

 




 

 

”57/111914,

7]

§
§:

Mil/7 /

 

Founded by Geo. T. Angell. Incorporated March, 1868

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds

JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First
of Boston Corporation.

CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President, United Shoe
Machinery Corporation

PHILIP STOCKTON, President, First National Bank of
Boston

Prosecuting Ofﬁcers in Boston
Telephone (Complaints, Ambulances) Longwood 6100
L. WILLARD WALKER, Chief Officer

HARRY L. ALLEN DAVID A. BOLTON
HARVEY R. FULLER HOWARD WILLAND

County Prosecuting Ofﬁcers
HERMAN N. DEAN, Boston
Middlesex,
FRED T. VICKERS, Lynn
WILLIAM W. HASWELL, Methuen
THEODORE W. PEARSON, Springﬁeld
Hampden, Hampshire and Franklin
ROBERT L. DYSON, Worcester Worcester
WINFIELD E. DUNHAM, New Bedford Bristol
HAROLD G. ANDREWS, Hyannis
Barnstable, Dukes and Nantucket
T. KING HASWELL, Pittsﬁeld Berkshire

Rest Farm for Horses and Small Animal Shelter,
Methuen

W. W. HASWELL, Superintendent

Norfolk and Plymouth
Eastern Essex
Western Essex

Women’s Auxiliary of the Mass. S. P. C. A., 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston—MRS. EDITH WASHBURN
CLARKE, Pres.; MRS. A. J. FURBUSH, Treas.; MRS.
AGNES P. FISHER, Ch. Work Com.

Springﬁeld Branch—MRS. DONALD C. KIBBE, Pres.;
MRS. AARON BAGG, Treas.

Winchester Branch—MRS. RICHARD S. TAYLOR,
Pres.; MISS BESSIE SMALL, Treas.

MONTHLY REPORT OF SOCIETY
AND BRANCHES

Miles traveled by humane oﬂicers . 15,568
Cases investigated ............... 389
Animals examined ............... 6,824
Animals placed in homes. . . ...... 122
Lost animals restored tO owners. . . 43
Number of prosecutions ........ . 8
Number Of convictions ........... 7
Horses taken from work. ........ 23
Horses humanely put to sleep ..... 51

Small animals humanely put to sleep 1,856

Stock-yards and Abattoirs

Animals inspected ............... 69,713
Cattle, swine and sheep humanely
put to sleep ................... 40

The Massachusetts Society for the Pre-
vention of Cruelty to Animals has been re-
membered in the wills Of Annie Cleaves Of
Brookline, Harold D. Stebbins of Spring-
ﬁeld, Charles E. Egerton Of Harvard, and
Cornelia F. Forbes of Milton.

October 9, 1934.

Be Kind to Animals Week, April 8-13;
Humane Sunday, April 7, 1935.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

ANGELL MEMORIAL ANIMAL
HOSPITAL

and Dispensary for Animals
184 Longwood Avenue Telephone, Longwood 6100

Veterinarians

. DAILEY, V.M.D., Chief of Staff

. SCHNEIDER, V.M.D., Asst. Chief
. SCHROEDER, D.V.M.

. SCHNELLE, V.M.D.

. MUNSON, V.M.D.

. BLAKELY, V.M.D.

HARRY L. ALLEN, Superintendent
Springﬁeld Branch
53-57 Bliss Street, Springﬁeld, Mass.
THEODORE W. PEARSON, General Manager
Veterinarians

A. R. EVANS, V.M.D.
H. L. SMEAD, D.v.M.

nannwg
bownmn

 

 

 

HOSPITAL REPORT FOR SEPTEMBER
Including Springﬁeld Branch

Hospital Dispensary
Cases entered 798 Cases 2,409
Dogs 584 Dogs 1,943
Cats 208 Cats 420
Birds 4 Birds 43
Horse 1 Rabbits 2
Goat 1 Chipmunk 1

Operations 783

Hospital cases since opening, Mar.

1, 1915 .................... 123,317
Dispensary Cases .............. 287,931

Total ...................... 411,248

The Month in the Springﬁeld Branch
Cases entered in Hospital .......... 92
Cases entered in Dispensary ....... 338
Operations ...................... 142

MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A. IN THE
COURTS
Summary of Prosecutions in September

A farmer who allowed his cows tO go
unmilked for thirty-six hours was arraigned
on the charge Of cruelty; he was found
guilty and ﬁned $25.

For promoting a cockﬁght, a defendant
was convicted and ﬁned $50. He appealed
but later withdrew appeal and paid the ﬁne.

One who had charge and custody of a
horse was summoned for knowingly and
wilfully permitting him to be worked when
afflicted with large sores under his collar.
He was convicted and ﬁned $25 and sen-
tenced one month in House Of Correction.
The latter was suspended and ﬁne paid.

For driving a horse that was unﬁt for
labor, one defendant was ﬁned $20. An-
other for permitting a horse to be worked
when unﬁt was found guilty and his case
was ﬁled.

Three youthful Offenders were taken to
court for cruelty to dogs. They all pleaded
guilty; one for inciting dogs to ﬁght, the
other two for cruelly beating the animals.
All were found guilty and were put on
probation for three .months. Each was
ordered to pay $10 for doctor’s bill.

Rodeo’s Death Knell

Not a single dissenting voice was raised
in the House Of Commons against the
Rodeo Bill. It passed all its parliamentary
stages with no loss Of time. Such una-
nimity against the rodeo, or upon any
legislative action, has been seldom recorded.

Page 169

Auxiliary Fair, December 12

HE annual Fair of the Women’s Aux-

iliary of the Mass. S. P. C. A. will
be held at the Copley Plaza Hotel, Boston,
Wednesday, December 12, 1.934. New and
interesting features are promised for this
year. Those wishing to send contributions
of articles or cash should address them to
Mrs. A. J. Furbush, treasurer of Women’s
Auxiliary, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston.

The Emery Covered Bird
Perch

Have you heard of it? A friend writes
us from Yonkers, N. Y., saying, “I wonder
if you are meeting a form of cruelty that
we are facing in this community, namely,
the selling Of bird-cage perches made with
emery paper to wear Off the delicate toe-
nails Of birds? We have just found a case
Of a canary in great suffering, its feet sore
and bleeding as a result Of this diabolical
invention to save having the birds’ nails
clipped.” We hope our readers will pro-
test against this type Of perch wherever
possible. We have not been able to learn
Of any place in Massachusetts where they
are sold. One dealer told us he had seen
them and thought some one had tried to
introduce them here but had met with no
success. Another dealer told us he had
had calls for them but would not handle
them.

“ To An Unknown Dog”

A marble monument inscribed “TO An
Unknown Dog,” stands in the Proctor
Cemetery for Animals in Nashua, New
Hampshire. Mrs. M. Jennie Kendall, vice-
president of the New Hampshire Humane
Society and a director of the American Hu-
mane Education Society, Boston, had it
placed in memory Of a dog whose wasted
form, found several weeks after death, bore
evidence Of its having been someone’s faith-
ful pet. An expensive chain collar with
metal tag attached, numbered 981, issued
by the city of Nashua, are preserved by
Mrs. Kendall in the hope that these might
lead to the dog’s identiﬁcation.

Will You Sign This Petition?

If so, please send us your name and ad-
dress as indicated below, and we will add
it to the list.

The

We, the undersigned, knowing the great
and unnecessary cruelty of the present
methods of slaughtering food animals, do
hereby pledge ourselves to cut our con-
sumption of meat and meat products ten
per cent or more, until humane slaughter
is installed in every abattoir, all carcasses
to be stamped “Humanely slaughtered.”

Petition

Street address

City ................. State .........

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

9‘ f .
Tgkgtm, e ._. ;___,, '_-..,s.. ”Em. ;.

_ :4 ran-ﬁe- £13;- 7 ‘l ‘

i‘n-
.- .,

.?

__«,vg1.;‘.. -111: .'... .;.- . ._;..

, .
:9: a.‘

- £La..-ih'.-_

 

 

 

HUGH
, KING
2'5 HARRIS

 

 

“UPON THE BASIS OF UNDERSTANDING
SHALL BE FOUNDED HUMANITY”
Pepper, an intelligent terrier, tells

his life from his ﬁrst recollection, on

through escapades, dangers, myster-
ies, and delights, in a way to hold
the attention of all ages.

For the dog, what “BLACK BEAUTY” has
been for the horse.

For sale wherever books are sold — $1.50

LOTHROP, LEE & SHEPARD CO.
275 Congress St. Boston

 

 

 

 

 

 

FREE Write for
BOOKLET NO. N ‘SB—A
on the practical re-
moval of worms in
Dogs of all breeds

 
  
     
 
 

For

 

CAPSULES '

ﬁectz'oely remove

Large Roun was and Hookworms

The safe, easy-to- give worm treatment.
Dependable. For free booklet WRITE T O

PARKE, DAVIS 81. CO.

Desk N—58— A Animal Industry Dept” Detroit, Mich.
— Drug Stores Sell Parke-Davis Products.—

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Actually

KILLS
FLEAS

Instead of
Stupelying
Them

PULVEX- ING your dog or cat
kills all the ﬂeas, lice, mites, and
keeps new ones off for days.
Harmless even if swallowed. Non-
irritating. Odorless. Used by over
a million dog owners. Guaran-
teed to satisfy you or your money
back. Sold by drug stores, pet
shops, 50 cents, or direct—

William Conner & Nephews, Inc.
lleptllllll), 1925 Clifton Av.,l:hicago

 

 

 

 

ON BEHALF

still in great demand.

 

Best Humane Films!

Made for the M. S. P. C. A. in 1933 by the University Film Foundation,
showing the activities of the Angel] Animal Hospital of the Massachusetts
S. P. C. A., Boston, scenes at the Society’s Rest Farm for Horses, Methuen,
and glimpses of the Society’s Animal Shelters. Two reels, 30 minutes.

THE BELL OF ATRI

Made for the American Humane Education Society some years ago, but

State whether regular 35 mm., or 16 mm. is required

Terms on application to Secretary, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston

OF ANIMALS

 

 

 

 

 

Humane literature and Band of Mercy Supplies

For sale at 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass, at these prices, postpaid.

The Great Cruelty, summary of Dr. Rowley’ 5 address on humane slaughtering ........................ Free
Humane Calendar for 1934 ........... each. 20 cts. Gripped in the Teeth of Steel, 2 pp. .. .. $1. 00 per 100
Two for 35 cts. ; six for $1. 00; $1. 80 per dozen Leaflet, No. 6, Animals ................ 50
Our Dumb Animals, 1933, bound volume $1 00 Leaflet, No. 7, Farm Animals .......... .50 “ “

Our Dumb Animals, January to Decem-

ber, 1929, and 1931, bound in cloth,

special each ......................... .75
Colored Posters, 17 x 28 inches, with

attractive pictures and verses, six in

the set ............................. $1.00

About the Horse

Black Beauty (English), cloth, 45 cents; paper, 20 cts.
The Shame of It—Mutilating the horse
by setting up his tail. Dr. Rowley’s

protest against this cruelty .......... Free
The Horse—Treatment of Sores, Dis-
eases, etc. ......................... $0. 60 per 100
Humane Education Leaflet, No. 5 .....
The Horse’s Prayer ................... .30 “ “
About the Dog
Beautiful Joe, new, illus. ., $1.50 ........ small, 50 cts.

Eulogy on the Dog, Vest, post-card . $1. 00 per 100
The Dog——Its Care in Health and Disease .60
Humane Education Leaflets, Nos. 3 and 4 .50 “ “

The Story of Barry ................... 3.0 “ “
About the Bird
The Birds of God, 318 pp., illus, ....... cloth, $0. 45

Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 1 and 2 $0.50 per 100
How the Birds Help the Farmer ........ 50
_ About the Cat
The Cat—Its Care in Health and Disease $0. 60 per 100
Do Not Leave Your Cat to Starve ......
“The Beggar Cat,” post-card, 6 cts. doz. .50 “ “
About Other Animals
Prince Rudolf’s Quest, Kenniston, 150

pp. ., special ........................ boards, 50 cts.
The Strike at Shane’s, cloth, 30 cts. .,paper 7 cts.
For Pity’ s Sake ....................... paper, 5 cts.

Michael Brother of Jerry, Jack London, cloth, 75 cts.
First Aid to Animals, Dr. Schneider, 8 pp. $1. 00 per 100
What is the Jack London Club? ........ .30

Humane Education

The Humane Bulletin, for use in schools,

96 pp. ................ 12 cents each; ten for $1.00
Care and Kindness for Our Animal

Friends, 29 pp., paper covers, many

illus. ................ 15 cents each , seven for $1. 00
Kindness Picture Book, 32 pp. 15 cts. , seven for $1. 00
The Teacher’s- Helper in Humane Edu-

cation, 32 pp. ...................... each, 10 cts.
Humane Education—for Parents and
Teachers, 20 pp. .................... each, 10 cts.

An Early Start to Kindness, Lucia F.
Gilbert, 48 pp. For first and second

gar des ................................ each, 10 cts.
“Sanctuary! Sanctuary!” Selections from
book by Dallas Lore Sharp, 32 pp ...... each, 5 cts.
Picture Lesson Cards, each 10 cts., set
of eight ............................. 35 cts.
“Be Kind to Animals” pennants ........ each, 25 cts.
“Be Kind to Animals” placards ......... each, 3 cts.
The Humane Idea, Dr. Francis H.
Rowley ................ cloth, 35 cts , paper, 15 cts.
Friends and Helpers (selections for
school use), Sarah J. Eddy ........... cloth, 96 cts.

Humane Education the Vital Need, Dr.

Rowley, short radio address, 3 cts. each; $1.50 per 100
A Talk with the Teacher .............. .50
A Great Prophecy, Dr. Rowley ........ Free

Band of Mercy

“Be Kind to Animals” Buttons, three
styles—Band of Mercy, Humane So-
ciety, or S. P. C. A. ................ $1. 00 per 100

Badges, gold ﬁnish, large, 10 cts. ...... small, 5 cts.
“Band of Mercy” Pennant ............ 35 cts.
Songs of Happy Life, with music, S.

J. Eddy ............................. 50 cts. each
Songs ofy Happy Life (56 pages, words

only) ............................. $3. 00 per 100
Band of Mercy Membership Card ....... .50
How to Form Bands of Mercy ........ .50 “ “

Please enclose remittance with orders for less than $1

AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY, 180 Longwood Ave., Boston, Mass.

 

 

THIS SPACE
CONTRIBUTED

 

 

 

 

mn—nn—un—nQn—nn—nn—nm
I Shampoo Regularly with I
CUTICUBA SOAP

Pro-cede by Applications of

CUTICURA GINTMENT

Price 25c. each. Sample free.
Address. "Cutlcura,” Dept 13K, Malden, Mass.

-... -... .. 3‘ -. -..- --.-
ll .... .-.- "w" -.-. ....

aﬂ—ﬂ—ll
ﬁll—il—u

 

 

 

Since 1832

J. S. WATERMAN & SONS, INC.

ﬂannertakers

BOSTON—BROOKLINE—CAMBRIDGE
City and Out-of-Town Service

 

 

 

 

 

Humane Calendar for 1934

With picture of child and cat, in
black and white. 20 cts. per copy;
two for 35 cts.; or 12 for $1.80 to a
single address.

American Humane Education Society,
180 Longwood Ave., Boston

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

\// ,
Published monthly by the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood, Massachusetts

Entered as second-class matter, June 29
Acceptance for mailing at special rate of post

01. AN

9.

u U. S.Trade Mark, Registered \

GELL m 1868. AND FOR FORry.

The Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

The American Humane Education Society

The American Band of Mercy

I would not enter on my list of friends,
Though graced with polished manners and ﬁne sense,
Yet wanting sensibility, the man
Who needlessly sets foot upon a worm.
—COWPER

      

6|.on 'ro
GOD, .
PEACE on EARTH, ' ‘
Kwanzaa, JUSTICE
AND Maacv 70*
EVERY lemc
CREATURE.

       
     

, 1917, at the Post Oﬂice at Norwood, Mass., under the Act of March 3, 1879
age provided for in section 1103, Act of October 3, 1917, authorized, July 13, 1919

Boston Ofﬁce, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

 

VQﬂ.67

To Our Massachusetts
Readers

Will you help the humane forces of our
state to stop the cruel practice of setting
up horses’ tails? This practice involves
cutting certain muscles of the tail so it can
be set up and held in an unnatural position
by a mechanical device. This is done chieﬂy
for show purposes. It is to conform to a
senseless fashion, as senseless as the fashion
that has demanded the docking of horses’
' tails, 2'. e., cutting the tail off a few inches
from the body.

If you will help us, please send for distri—
bution free leaﬂets which tell the story. We
seek the legislation which will prohibit the
practice of showing horses with set-up or
docked tails.

Congratulations to the Sioux City, Iowa,
Humane Society upon its excellent annual
report—4,649 animals cared for, ambulance
covering 36,000 miles answering to 2,700
calls. Humane education work in the schools
also.

The Horse Association of America states
in its latest report that on March 1, 1933,
there were in the United States 17,944,000
horses and mules, the most of which were at
work on farms. The United States census
for 1920 reported 25,199,552.

The United States must how its head in
shame. Three lynchings in almost as many
days. Is the rest of the world to think of
us as savages? This magazine goes to every
country of the globe. We beg its readers to
believe that from our 120,000,000 people
comes but here and there a voice of any-
thing but shame and protest.

And for all that the last war taught the
world, hammering again into men’s thick
heads that preparing'for war means war,
our Secretary of the Navy calls for the
greatest navy in the world, and France is
planning to enlarge her own sea-ﬁghting
power while England and Japan join in
the mad and senseless race.

January,1934
The Horse and the Hard

Times

HE U. S. Department of Commerce has
. recently published a carefully prepared
[booklet entitled, “The Farm Horse.” We
summarize a few of its statements:

Before the coming, of. tractor, autotruck
and automobile it required approximately
18,000,000 acres of crop land to produce hay
and grain for the horse, and about 3,000,000

~ acres of plowable land for his pasture. With

the displacement of the horse by the machine
something} like 21,000,000 acres have, so
released, resulted in surpluses of various
crops and livestock; in many crops the sur-
pluses have meant decreased prices for these
farm products, greatly lowering farm pur-
chasing power, and the reduction in the
latter has affected the entire country.

The minimum ﬁgure of 18,000,000 acres
released by the decrease in horses and mules
between 1920 and 1930 is sufﬁcient to pro-
duce yearly 6,000,000 bales of cotton, half
the usual crop, or 250,000,000 bushels of
wheat, about one-third of the wheat crop,
or 487,000,000 bushels of corn, an amount
sufﬁcient to feed over 12,500,000 hogs a
year. In the three years since these ﬁg-
ures were furnished by the 1930 census it
is stated the surpluses have increased in
magnitude and the adverse effects have be-
come much more serious.

Of course, it is not to be understood that
these 21,000,000 acres released have all been
used to raise cotton, wheat and corn; the
acreage has been spread among many crops.
The result of the study, however you look
at it, at least raises the question, How far
has the abandonment of the horse and his
replacement by the machine been respon-
sible for the farmer’s overproduction and
low prices at which he has had to sell his
products and so contributed to the diﬂ‘icult
times of the last four years? Among the
many causes of the dark days through which
the farmers and all the rest of us have been
passing, it certainly would seem as if the
farmer’s unhitching the horse, unbuckling
the hames, stripping off the harness, pulling
off the collar and then saying to him good-
bye might not have been altogether the part
of economic wisdom.

of color or creed or race.

190-1

The President’s Letter
To the Field Workers of the American

Humane Education Society

N OTHER year faces each of us as rep-
resentatives of the American Humane
Education Society. Does it mean ﬁrst and
above all else opportunity to serve our day
and generation, or is the best thing about
it the wages we receive? I am constantly
asking myself this same heart-searching
question. But each of you to whom I am
sending this letter has worked so faithfully,
has been willing to make so many sacri-
ﬁces to do the things you have sought to do,
that I must believe the opportunity to serve
this great cause of Humane Education has
been the controlling motive of your service.
What about the new year? What am I
most anxious should be accomplished by
you, as you go from school to school, here
in New England, through the South, in
some of the western states? It is not pri-
marily, and above all else, to serve the inter-
ests of the uncounted hosts of unfortunate
animals ill-treated, neglected, millions of
them year by year killed for food by meth-

‘ods needlessly cruel and painful. No. Hu-

mane Education seeks ﬁrst, always ﬁrst, the
child. Deep into the center of the child’s
life it would enter with its living voice,
touching the chords that respond to the
words that speak of justice, compassion,
love, for one’s human fellows irrespective
For here, and
nowhere else, are the springs whence ﬂow
the highest and ﬁnest things that this world
has ever known or will ever know. Poor is
that education, sought at school or college
or university, that has left untouched that
hidden realm of the human soul where live
those emotions which drive life’s other
forces to their goals of good or evil. When
Herbert Spencer said, “The emotions are our
masters, the intellect the servant,” he said
only what that ancient Hebrew seer said,
even more understandingly, centuries be-
fore, “Out of the heart are the issues of
life.” These last words, I so often quote,
drop the plummet down into the deeps of the
life of every man.

Whenever you face an audience in the
name of the Society that you represent, let

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
  
     

GLORY TO
GOD,
PEACE ON EARTH,
KINDNESS, JUSTICE 0
AND MERCY 'ro
EVERY LIVING
CREATURE.

  

 
 
   
     

‘7 I.
é
m r,
2

 

Founded by Geo. T. Angell Incorporated 1889

For rates of membership in both of our Societies
see back cover. Checks should be made payable to
Treasurer.

Ofﬁcers of the American Humane'Education Society
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds
JOHN R. MACOMBE‘R, Chairman, Chase Harris Forbes
Corporation ‘
CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President, United Shoe
Machinery Corporation

PHILIP STOCKTON, President, First National Bank of
Boston

Foreign Corresponding Representatives

George B. Duff .................. Australia

Luis Pareja Cornejo .............. Ecuador

Charles A. Williams .............. France

Leonard T. Hawksley ............. Italy

Mrs. Mary P. E. Nitobe .......... Japan

Mrs. Marie C. E. Houghton ........ Madeira

Dr. A. _T. Ishkanian .............. Mexico

Luther Parker ................... Philippine Islands
Joaquin Julia ................... Spain

Mrs. Alice W. Manning ........... Turkey

Humane Press Bureau
Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke, Secretary
180 Longwood Ave.., Boston

Field Workers of the Society
Mrs. Alice L. Park, Palo Alto, California
Mrs. Rachel C. Hogue, San Diego, California
Mrs. Jennle R. Nichols, Tacoma, Washington
James D. Burton, Oakdale, Tennessee
Mrs. Katharine Weathersbee, Atlanta, Georgia
Rev. F. Rivers Barnwell, Fort Worth, Texas
MISS Blanche Finley, Richmond, Virginia
Rev. John W. Lemon, Ark, Virginia
MISS Luela F. Gilbert, Boston, Massachusetts
Mrs. Jennie R. Toomim, Chicago, Illinois
Seymour Carroll, Columbia, S. C.

Field Representative

Wm. F. H. Wentzel, M. 8., Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

Field Lecturer in Massachusetts
Ella A. Maryott

Annuity Bonds

Many men and women, lovers of animals,
are getting both happiness and material
comfort from our two Societies’ Annuity
Bonds. These bonds are absolutely safe
and yield a return according to one’s age.
They make their appeal ordinarily to
people over 40 years of age. Send the
coupon for a free folder which gives full
details. Fill in the coupon and mail it now.
The Massachusetts S. P. C. A. (or)
The American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Ave., Boston, Mass.

Without obligation to me, please send

me your folder which tells all about your
Annuity Bonds.

Name ................

............
.................

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

DECEASED FRIENDS

Who Made Bequests to the Massachusetts

S. P. C. A. and the American Humane

Education Society in 1933

NOTE :——Names of all earlier deceased friends, mak-
ing similar bequests, appear in the issues of Our
Dumb Animals for February, 1928, 1929, 1930, 1931,
1932 and 1933.

Gertrude Allen, Canton

Marion E. Baker, Brookline

William Brewster, Newport, R. I.

Fanny Grant Brown, Stafford, Conn.

Annie Bolton Matthews Bryant, Boston

Annie E. Cameron, Killingly, Conn.

Joseph J. Carew, Cambridge

Vesta Evans Dow, Salisbury

Charles H. Farnsworth, Brookline

Elliott W. Fiske, Waltham

Caroline A. Fox, Arlington

Marion Frank Gilbert, Boston

Emma A. Green, Keene, N. H.

Robert Neil Harvey, Waltham

Robert D. Holt, Newton

Emma W. Hoyt, Belmont

Abby W. Hunt, Beverly

Harriet D. Hurlbut, Boston

Mary B. Johnson, Ayer

Georgiana Kendall, New York, N. Y.

Maurice H. Klous, Brookline

A. Josephine Ladd, Malden

Cyrus W. Lane, Townsend

Elizabeth A. Lane, Springﬁeld

Eliza B. Leonard, Greenﬁeld

Mary E. Libbey, Portland, Maine

Mary E. Merritt, Brookline

Henry W. Ordway, Lowell

Frank W. Peckham, Watertown

Susan S. Price, Boston

Alice S. Roberts, Boston

Clara B. Colby Rose, Manchester, N. H.

Carrie Ella Smith, Boston '

Mrs. Ida A. Smith, Salem

Helen S. Thomas, Boston

Bertha Ellen Tuttle, Boston

Sarah Bowman Van Ness, Lexington

Ella F. Wade, Springﬁeld

Brooxxe B- Williams, Boston

Susan F. Worcester, Boston

Schopenhauer Says :

It is just this characteristic way in which
the beast gives itself up entirely to the
present moment that contributes so much to
the delight we take in our domestic pets.
They are the present moment personiﬁed,
and in some respects they make us feel the
value of every hour that is free from
trouble and annoyance, which we, with our
thoughts and preoccupations, mostly disre-
gard. But man, that selﬁsh and heartless
creature, misuses this quality of the beast
to be more content than we are with mere
existence, and often works it to such an ex-
tent that he allows the beast absolutely
nothing more than mere, bare life. The
bird which was made so that it might rove
over half of the world, he shuts up into the
space of a cubic foot, there to die a slow
death in longing and crying for freedom;
for in a cage it does not sing for the pleas-
ure of it. And when I see how man misuses
the dog, his best friend; how he ties up this
intelligent animal with a chain, I feel the
deepest sympathy with the beast and burn-
ing indignation against its master.

An order banning monkey meat from
Canton restaurants informs the Chinese
that “monkeys possess many of the traits”
exhibited by men. The monkeys are said
to appreciate the protective intent of the
order while resenting its wording.

—Christian Science Monitor

Feb. 1931;
The Fez Fondouk

NABLE as we have been to receive at

the Fondouk the much larger number
of animals which we could have accommo-
dated because of reduced income, it will be
seen many more animals than ever have
been given care and treatment by the daily
visits to the numerous small stables of the
city. Our hope is that better ﬁnancial con-
ditions during 1934 will enable us to open
wide again the doors of the Fondouk. Alas,
that every dollar we have sent to Fez
through these past months has been worth
but little more than half its former value.

Monthly Report
November 1933 — 30 Days

Daily average, large animals 29.5
Forage for same $ 56.63
Daily average, dogs 11.7
Forage for same 9.05
Put to sleep 13 5.52
Transportation 10.85
Wages, grooms, etc. 85.48
Inspector’s wages 26.50
Superintendent’s salary 151.42
Assistant’s salary 78.86
Veterinary’s salary 25.24
Veterinary’s extra visits 13
Motor allowance 15.77
Sundries 40.10
$505.42

Entries: 12 horses, 6 mules, 36 donkeys, 1 goat.
Exits: 4 horses, 9 mules, 13 donkeys.

Report on 70 native fondouks: Visits during month,
810; animals seen, 11,244; animals treated, 3,600; ani-
mals sent in, 24

Inspections in the Souks. Visits made, .7 ; animals
seen, 3,602; animals treated, 579; animals sent in, 3.

SUPT.’S NOTES: We have spent this month $100
more than the $400 but on the other hand, over
frs. 2,500 less than what the $400 brought us last
year. We have treated in the Fondouk 1,725 animals
less than Nov., 1932, but 2,718 animals more in the
native fondouks. This gives us nearly 1,000 more
treated, with over frs. 2,500 less expense (by not in-
terning the animals but treating them in the native
fondOuks) but of course with much more work for
the personnel.

The Way Back

OW marvelous, how mysteriously un-
erring is the instinct by which an ani-
mal returns to a given place, or the winged
creatures achieve their dazzling migrations.
A dog, which had lived on a farm in
Iowa, was taken to Florida in a closed box-
car, ﬁlled with household effects, a distance
of ﬁfteen hundred miles. A few days after
arriving in the new locality he disappeared,
and weeks later was found on the porch of
the house from which he had been removed.
The dog had gone straight to his destina-
tion, though he had not seen the country
through which he passed, and had known
nothing of the direction taken. Such wis-
dom as this is positively uncanny.

A bonny shepherd dog was lost from his
owners and their car in the East, and given
up for good, but three months later he
appeared at his Old home in the Capital of
Oregon; a staggering skeleton, to be sure,
yet he was there. This animal had followed
the sun to the west for more than two thou-
sand miles, over boundless prairies, deserts;
across rivers and mountain ranges, as true
to his course as the beam of a star.

The fame of it went abroad. The papers
took up the story and ran catchy pictures
of the dog, while a local author, Mr. Charles
Alexander, made the brave creature the hero
of a splendidly fascinating book. Then a
kennel was constructed for the famous
canine in a place where the people could see
him and admire him as they passed by. S.




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Best Humane Films!

On Behalf of Animals

Showing activities of Angell Animal

Hospital of Mass. S. P. C. A., scenes

at Rest Farm for Horses, Methuen, etc.
Two reels, 30 minutes.

The Bell of Atri

Illustrating Longfellow’s poem

State whether regular 35 mm.,
or 16 mm. is required

Terms on application to Secretary
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston

 

 

 

 

 

 

By
HUGH
‘ KING
HARRIS

 

HARRIS

 

“UPON THE BASIS OF UNDERSTANDING
SHALL BE FOUNDED HUMANITY”
Pepper, an intelligent terrier, tells

his life from his ﬁrst recollection, on

through escapades, dangers, myster-
ies, and delights, in a way to hold
the attention of all ages.

For the dog, what “BLACK BEAUTY” has
been for the horse.

For sale wherever books are sold - $1.50

LOTHROP, LEE & SHEPARD CO.
126 Newbury St. Boston

The New Deal

NOW REMEMBER ANIMALS

The “Forgotten” Creatures of Farm, Field
and Forest Have Their Rights, Too

HUMANE SUNDAY, APRIL 15, 1934
BE KIND TO ANIMALS WEEK, APRIL 16=21

Be Kind to Animals Every Day in the Year

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THIS SPACE
CONTRIBUTED

 

 

 

 

 

 

Skin Health Derived from Daily
Use of the

CUTICUBA
PBEPABATIﬂNS

Price 25c. each. Sample free.
Address: "Cnticura,”Dept.3K,Malden, Mass.

LAAAAAJ

 

 

 

 

 

Since 1832

J. S. WATERMAN & SONS, INC.

ﬁneertakers

BOSTON—BROOKLINE—CAMBRIDGE
City and Out-of-Town Service

 

 

 

 

Humane literature and Band of Mercy Supplies

For sale at 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass, at these prices, postpaid.
Titles in bold- face type are of books or booklets
The Great Cruelty, summary of Dr. Rowley’s address on humane slaughtering ................... Free

Our Dumb Animals, 1933, bound volume $1.00
Our Dumb Animals, January to Decem-

ber, 1929, 1931, and 1932, bound in

cloth, Special, each ................ _ .. .75
Colored Posters, 17 x 28 inches, .w1th

attractive pictures and verses, Slx 1n

the set .............................. 1. 00
Be Kind to Animals Blotters, 61/8x33/8 ...$0 50 per 100

About the Horse

Black Beauty (English), cloth, 45 cents; paper, 20 cts.
The Shame of It—Mutilating the horse

by setting up his tail. Dr. Rowley’s

protest against this crueltyp for fash-

ion ’s sake. Four illus. ., 4p ........ Free
What Constitutes Cruelty, pFrancis H.

Rowley .......................... $0. 30 per 100
Humane Horse Book, 32 pp., 5 cts. ., or. 5.00 “ “
The Horse—Treatment of Sores; etc... .60 “ ..
Humane Education Leaﬂet, No. 5 ...... .50 .. “
The Horse’s Prayer ................... .30 “ H
The Bell of Atri, Poem by Longfellow .. .50

About the Dog

Beautiful Joe, new, illus., $1.50 ......... small, 50 cts.
Distemper in Dogs, Dr. Schneider '. ..... Free
Rabies vs. Running Fits, Dr. Schnelder Free

Eulogy on the Dog, by Vest, post-card . $1. 00 per 100
The Dog—Its Care in Health and Disease .60
Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 3 and 4 .50 “ ::
What the Chained Dog Says ........... .50 :: “
The Story of Barry ................... .30

About the Bird

The Birds of God, 318 pp. ., illus. cloth, $0. 45
The Trial of the Birds, play ........... $2. 00 per 100
Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 1 and 2 .50 “

How the Birds Help the Farmer ...... .50 “ “
The Air-gun and the Birds ............ .50 “ “

About the Cat

The Cat—Its Care in Health and Disease $0. 60 per 100
Surplus Cats ..........................

The Cat in Literature ................. .50 “ “
Do Not Leave Your Cat to Starve ...... .50 “ “
“The Beggar Cat,” post-card, 6 cts. doz. .50 “ “

About Other Animals
Prince Rudolf’s Quest, Kenniston, 150

pp., special ......................... boards, 50 cts.
The Strike at Shane’s, cloth, 30 cts .paper, 7cts.
For Pity’s Sake ...................... ppa per, 5cts.

Michael Brother of Jerry, Jack London, p,cloth 75 cts.
First Aid to Animals, Dr. Schneider, 8 pp. $1.00 per 100
What is the Jack London Club? ........ 30
Foreword from “Michael Brother of

Jerry” .............................. .30 “ “
Gripped in the Teeth of Steel, 2 pp. 1.00 “ “
How to Kill Animals Humanely, 4 pp. . . 1.00 “ “
Leaﬂets, No. 6, Animals ............... .50 “ “
Leaﬂets, No. 7, Farm Animals ......... .50 “ “
Hints on the Care of Cows ........... .50 “ “
Rules for the Care of Poultry .......... .60 “ “
Ways of Kindness ..................... .50 “ “

Humane Education

The Humane Bulletin, for use in schools,

96 pp. ................ 12 cents each; ten for $1.00
Care and Kindness for Our Animal

Friends, 29 pp. ., paper covers, many

illus. ................. 15 cents each ; seven for $1.00
Kindness Picture Book, 32 pp. 15 cts. ; seven for $1.00
The Teacher‘s Helper in Humane Edu-

cation, 32 pp. ...................... each, 10 cts.
Humane Education—for Parents and
Teachers, 20 pp. .................... each, 10 cts.

An Early Start to Kindness, Lucia F.
Gilbert, 48 pp. For ﬁrst and second

grades .............................. each, 10 cts.
Picture Lesson Cards, each 10 cts., set

of eight ............................ 35 cts.
“Be Kind to Animals” pennants ...... each, 25 cts.
“Be Kind to Animals” placards ........ each, .3 cts.
The Humane Idea, Dr. Francis H.

Rowley ................. cloth, .35 cts. ; paper, 15 cts.
Friends and Helpers (selections for

school use), Sarah J. Eddy .......... cloth, 96 cts.
Animals as Seen by the Poets, Guy

Richardson, 32 pp. ..... cloth, 35 cts.; paper, 10 cts.
Address to Boston Public Schools ...... $2.00 per 100
Lessons on Kindness to Animals ...... 3.00 “ “

The B—K—T—A—Club, play, 3 cts. each; ten for 25 c.
Fred Changes His Mind, play, 5 cts. each , six for 25 c.
“And a Little Child Shall Lead Them,”
play .................... 3 cts. each; ten for 25 cts.
Friends of Fur and Feather, play,
3 cts. each ; ten for 25 cts.
Humane Exercises for use in Schools

(1934) .............................. $1.50 per 100
Humane Day in Schools, with class-room
project, 8 pp. ....................... 2.00 “ “

Humane Education the Vital Need, Dr.
Rowley, short radio address, 3 cts. each; 1.50 “ “
Our Little Brothers and Sisters, sermon

for boys and girls, by Dr. Jeﬂferson.. .50 i“ “
Humane Education, What to Teach and

How to Teach It .................... .50 “ “
Outlines of Study in Humane Education 1. 50 “ “
Early Lessons in Kindness or Cruelty . . .50 “ “
A Talk with the Teacher .............. .50 “ “
Our Love for Animals, a short radio ad-

dress ................... 5 cts. each; 2.50 “ “
Hints for Humane Sunday ............ .75 “ “
A Festival of Tender Mercies .......... .50 “ “
The Coming Education ................. .30 “ “
A Great Prophecy, Dr. Rowley .......... Free
American College Presidents and the

American Humane Education Society Free

Band of Mercy
“Be Kind to Animals” Buttons, three
styles—Band of Mercy, Humane So-
ciety, or S. P. C. A. ................ $1.00 per 100
Buttons—white star on blue ground with
gilt letters and border, one cent each 1.00 “ “

Badges, gold ﬁnish, large, 10 cts. ...... small, 5 cts.
“Band of Mercy” Pennant ............ 35 cts.
Songs of Happy Life, with music, S.

J. Eddy ............................ 50 cts.
Songs of yHappy Life (56 pages, words

only) ............................... $3.00 per 100
Band of Mercy Membership Card ......
How to Form Bands of Mercy ......... .50 “ “

Does it Pay, story of one Band of Mercy .30 “ “

Please enclose remittance with orders for less than $1

AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY, 180 Longwood Ave., Boston, Mass.




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

      
 

AND MERCY TO
EVERY leme
CREATURE.

 
   
  

Founded by Geo. T. Angell Incorporated 1889

For rates of membership in both of our Societies
see back cover. Checks should be made payable to
Treasurer.

Ofﬁcers of the American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds

JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board

CHARLES G. BANCROF‘T, Vice-President, United Shoe
Machinery Corporation

PHILIP STOCKTON, President, First National Bank of
Boston

Foreign Corresponding Representatives

George B. Duﬁ‘ .................... Australia

Luis Pareja Cornejo .............. Ecuador

Charles A. Williams .............. France

Leonard T. Hawksley ............. Italy

Mrs. Mary P. E. Nitobe ........... Japan

Mrs. Marie C. E. Houghton ........ Madeira

Dr. A. T. Ishkanian ............... Mexico

Luther Parker .................... Philippine Islands
Joaquin Julia. . .‘ .................. Spain

Mrs. Alice W. Manning ........... Turkey

Humane Press Bureau
Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke, Secretary
180 Longwood Ave., Boston

Field Workers of the Society
Mrs. Alice L. Park, Palo Alto, California
Mrs. Rachel C. Hogue, San Diego, California
Mrs. Jennie R. Nichols, Tacoma, Washington
James D. Burton, Harriman, Tennessee
Mrs. Katherine Weathersbee, Atlanta, Georgia
Rev. F. Rivers Barnwell, Forth‘ Worth, Texas
Miss Blanche Finley, Richmond, Virginia
Rev. John W. Lemon, Ark, Virginia
Miss Lucia F. Gilbert, Boston, Massachusetts
Mrs. Jennie R. Toomim, Chicago, Ill.
Seymour Carroll, Columbia, S. C.
Rev. R. E. Grifﬁth, De Land, Florida

Field Representative
Wm. F. H. Wentzel, M.S., Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

Field Lecturer in Massachusetts
Ella A. Maryott

Societies’ Annuity Bonds

MANY men and women, lovers of ani-
mals, are getting both happiness and
material comfort from our two Societies’
Annuity Bonds. These bonds are absolutely
safe and yield a return according to one’s
age. They make their appeal ordinarily to
people over 40 years of age. Send the
coupon for a free folder which gives full
details. Fill in the coupon and mail it now.
The Massachusetts S. P. C. A. (or)

The American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Ave., Boston, Mass.

Without obligation to me, please send
me your folder which tells all about your
Annuity Bonds.

Name ..................................
Age ...................................
Address

City._...._

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

A Fine Word for the Fez
Fondouk

GENEROUS English contributor to-
ward the Fondouk at Fez writes us
from England:

“Immediately on the arrival of our party
at the Grand Hotel, Fez, in 1932, the hall—
boy placed some of the Fondouk literature
in our hands. We soon visited the Fondouk
and were delighted to see the place where
the noble work for animals is carried on.

“It is gratifying to note that the authori-
ties are co-operating with you and that
since August last there is punishment in
cruelty cases.

“I shall always be deeply interested in
this as I know that Morocco is one of the
‘Animal Hells.’

“With very best wishes for the animal
work in Fez, I am

“Yours hopefully,
(‘

Fez Fondouk, Morocco

Report for February, 1934 ——28 Days

Francs

Daily average large’animals 42.2
Forage for same 1,552.75

Daily average dogs 7.6
Forage for same 72.75
Large animals humanely put to sleep 17 90.00
Transportation 188.00
Wages, grooms, etc. 1,524.50
Inspector’s wages 392.00
Superintendent’s salary 2,400.00
Assistant’s salary 1,250.00
Veterinary’s salary 400.00
Motor allowance 250.00
Sundries 341.85
8,461.85
or, $556.70

(Exchange, 15.20)

Entries: 9 horses, 19 mules, 38 donkeys.

Exits: 5 horses, 8 mules, 27 donkeys.

Monthly Report of Supt.’s assistant, and inspector:
visits to 70 Native Fondouks, the two markets for
animals held twice weekly, the Mellah, the Ville Nou-
velle, where are the police headquarters, and the
Batha division. Kilometers traveled, 310. Cases in-
vestigated in 747 visits: animals seen, 9,315; animals
treated, 2,554; animals transferred, 7.

SUPT.’S NOTE: Many animals and their owners
out of Fez for the spring ploughing and cultivating.

Our Films—New and Old

So many applications came in for the two
ﬁlms, “On Behalf of Animals” and “The
Bell of Atri,” that we had to turn down
some of them in connection with the recent
Be Kind to Animals Week. And this not—
withstanding the fact that we have several
prints, in both sizes, of each ﬁlm.

From the minister of the United Church,
Shirley, Mass, came this appreciative word:

“A large and enthusiastic group of chil-
dren in formative years, and of adults, too,
greatly enjoyed ‘On Behalf of Animals’ and
in their name and for myself, too, I thank
you.”

The secretary of the English classes in
the Junior High School, Leominster, Mass,
wrote:

“We enjoyed the ﬁlm, ‘The Bell of Atri,’
very much. The horses, dogs, and lambs
were all ﬁne specimens. Some of the pupils
gave little talks on the story and its pur-
pose. I am enclosing a clipping that was
take . from our local paper. Thank you for
making it possible for us to see this picture.”

Humane societies, schools, and clubs that
have a suitable projector for showing either
16 mm. or 35 mm. size ﬁlms, should write
for particulars about these two ﬁlms to

Secretary, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston,
Mass.

May, 1934

Why I Believe That Animals
Think

WILLIAM HENRY SPEAR

HAD the honor once to be owned by a

a dog. He was an Irish setter. I acquired
this dog when he was a puppy, and sought
to prove my “thought theory,” which I have
held many years, and in which I am a ﬁrm
believer, and I believe scores of my readers
will recall in their own experiences proofs
that to them are positive.

This animal answered to the name of
“Rover.” In his training I took great care
always to treat him kindly. Of a whip he
was ignorant. I talked to him as I would
to a human being. When he did well I
praised him. When he was at fault, I
sought to reason with him. Never was he
maltreated. On the theory that he could be
reasoned with, I began at an early age to
impress upon him absolute obedience. He
would make mistakes in his training now
and then, but a human being, who is sup-
posed to possess intellect, does this, why
then should a dog be criticized, if he too
occasionally errs, in being taught?

Under my kindly treatment, the dog de-
veloped what I then claimed, and still claim,
to be great intelligence. Often when aﬁeld
with my dog, I have, wholly unknown to
him, dropped a handkerchief, and, continu-
ing on for fully half a mile, have called
the dog to me and whispered in his ear,
conﬁdentially:

“Rover, master has dropped his handker-
chief somewhere back there, will you ﬁnd
it for me?”

Without hesitation, Rover would take the
back track and shortly after would come
bounding back, holding the handkerchief in
his mouth.

At times I would vary the experiment by
dropping some other object, telling the dog
the object wanted. Always hewould search
and. return to me the article I had asked
him to ﬁnd.

Often in the presence of witnesses I have
hidden a ball or any other object in a room,
of which the dog had no knowledge,-——per-
haps had never before been in that house.
Being brought in from a neighboring room,
I have told the dog, “Rover, in this room,
somewhere, there is a ball,” or whatever it
was I desired him to ﬁnd, “that master has
hidden. Find it and bring it to me!” With-
in a short time the desired article would be
found by Rover and brought to me.

He knew the value of money, to a cer-
tain extent. Often in the presence of wit-
nesses, I, have taken a small coin and a
larger coin, and showing to him- both coins
would say, “Rover, here are two pieces of
money. Which of these would buy you the
larger piece of meat?” Concealing the
money in my hands behind me, and then
bringing them forward, I would say, “Come,
now, pick Out the money that will buy the
most meat!”

The dog would sniﬂ" at each hand and ﬁn-
ally try with his teeth to open the hand
holding the coin of highest value. I have
Varied this by substituting a dollar bill for
half a dollar piece, a quarter for a nickel.
Invariably the result would be the same.

To further prove this dog’s power

of thought, let me illustrate it in another
way. I was on the reportorial staff of a
morning newspaper. My assignment route

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

FREE Write for
BOOKLET N0. 652

  
  
 
 

on the practical re-
For . moval of worms m
DOG Dogs of all breeds

and ages.

  
      

sTETRACHLOREYHYLENE c. 'r.

ORM CAPSULES

. ﬂectz'oely remove

lorgeRoundworins and Hookworms

Th 3 fe. easy-to-give worm treatment.
Degendable. For free booklet WRITE TO

PARKE, DAVIS 8: CO.

Duk N-5 8-G , Animal Industry Dept.” Detroit, Mich.
— Drug Stores Sell Fake-Dam Products. ——

 

 

 

 

 

 

CUTICURA SGAP

Acknowledged as a Protection

against Skin Troubles

Price 250. Sample free.
Address: "Cuticura,” Dept. 12K, Malden, Mass.

 

 

 

 

 

THIS SPACE
CONTRIBUTED

 

 

 

 

 

A HUMANE LIBRARY FOR $1
Bound volumes of OUR DUMB ANIMALS
for 1933, twelve numbers, 192 pp., 150 illus-
trations, green cloth, gilt titles. An attractive
gift to hotels, hospitals, institutions of all
kinds, and to individuals. Order today from

180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Since 1832

J. S. VVATERMAN & SONS, INC.

@thertakers

BOSTON—BROOKLINE—CAMBRIDGE
City and Out-of-Town Service

 

 

 

 

Humane literature and Band of Mercy Supplies

For Sale at 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass, at these prices, postpaid.
Titles in bold-face type are of books or booklets

The Great Cruelty, summary of Dr. Rowley’s address on humane slaughtering .................. Free

Our Dumb Animals, 1933, bound volume $1.00
Our Dumb Animals, January to Decem-
ber, 1929, 1931, and 1932, bound in

cloth, special, each ................... .75
Colored Posters, 17 x 28 inches, with

attractive pictures and verses, six in

~ the set ............................. 1.00
Be Kind to Animals Blotters, 61/8x33/8 ..$0.50 per 100

About the Horse

Black Beauty (English), cloth, 45 cents;paper, 20 cts.
The Shame of It——Mutilating the horse

by setting up his tail. Dr. Rowley’s

protest against this cruelty for fash-

ion’s sake. Four illus., 4 pp. ........ Free
What Constitutes Cruelty, Francis H.

Rowley ............................. $0.30 per 100
Humane Horse Book, 32 pp., 5 cts., or.. 5.00 “ “
The Horse—Treatment of Sores; etc. .. .60 “ “
Humane Education Leaﬂet, No. 5. ...... .50 “ “
The Horse’s Prayer .................... .30 “ “
The Bell of Atri, Poem by Longfellow .. 50 “ “

About the Dog
Beautiful Joe, new, illus., $1.50' .......... small, 50 cts.
Distemper in Dogs, Dr. Schneider ...... Free
Rabies vs. Running Fits, Dr. Schneider . Free

Eulogy on the Dog, by Vest, post-card .. $1.00 per 100
The Dog—Its Care in Health and Disease .60 “ “

Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 3 and 4 .50 “ “
What the Chained Dog Says ........... .50 “ “
The Story of Barry ................... .30 “ “

About the Bird

The Birds of God, 318 pp., illus. cloth, $0.45

The Trial of the Birds, play .......... $2.00 per 100
Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 1 and 2 .50 “ "
How the Birds Help the Farmer ...... .50 “ “
The Air-gun and the Birds ............ .50 " "

About the Cat

The Cat—Its Care in Health and Disease $0.60 per 100
Surplus Cats .50 “ “

The Cat in L'itérat'ﬁr'éfliiXXIX]: .50 “ “
Do Not Leave Your Cat to Starve ...... .50 “ “
“The Beggar Cat,” post-card, 6 cts. doz. .50 “ “

About Other Animals

Prince Rudolf’s Quest, Kenniston, 150

pp., special ........................ boards, 50 cts.
The Strike at Shane’s, cloth, 30 cts. ..paper, 7cts.
For Pity’s Sake ...................... paper, 5cts.
Michael Brother of Jerry, Jack London, cloth, 75 cts.
First Aid to Animals, Dr. Schneider, 8 pp. $1.00 per 100
What is the Jack London Club? .30 “ “
Foreword from “Michael Brother of

Jerry” .............................. .30 “ “
Gripped in the Teeth of Steel, 2 pp. 1.00 “ “
How to Kill Animals Humanely, 4 pp .. 1.00 “ “
Leaﬂets, No. 6, Animals .............. .50 “ “
Leaﬂets, No. 7, Farm Animals ........ .50 “ “
Hints on the Care of Cows ............ .50 “ “
Rules for the Care of Poultry ......... .60 “ “
Ways of Kindness .................... .50 “ “

Humane Education

The Humane Bulletin, for use in schools,

6 pp. ................. 12 cents each ; ten for $1.00
Care and Kindness for Our Animal

Friends, 29 pp., paper covers, many

illus. ................. 15 cents each ; seven for $1.00
Kindness Picture Book, 32 pp., 15 cts. ; seven for $1.00
The Teacher’s Helper in Humane Edu-

cation, 32 pp. ...................... each, 10 cts.
Humane Education—for Parents and

Teachers, 20 pp. ...................
An Early Start to Kindness, Lucia F.

Gilbert, 48 pp. For ﬁrst and second

each, 10 cts.

grades .............................. each, 10 cts.
Picture Lesson Cards, each 10 cts., set

of eight ............................ 35 cts.
“Be Kind to Animals” pennants ....... each, 25 cts.
“Be Kind to Animals” placards ........ each, 3 cts.
The Humane Idea, Dr. Francis H. ,

Rowley ................ cloth, 35 cts. ; paper, 15 cts.
Friends and Helpers (selections for

school use), Sarah J. Eddy .......... cloth, 96 cts.

nimals as Seen by the Poets, Guy

Richardson, 32 pp. .................. cloth, 35 cts.
Lessons on Kindness to Animals ...... $3.00 per 100

The B—K—T—A—Club, play, 3 cts. each; ten for 25c.
Fred Changes His Mind, play, 5 cts. each; six for 25c.
“And a Little Child Shall Lead Them,”
play .................... 3 cts. each; ten for 25 cts.
Friends of Fur and Feather, play,
3 cts. each ; ten for 25 cts.

'Humane Exercises for use in Schools

(1934) ............................. $1.50 per 100
Humane Day in Schools, with class-room
project, 8 pp. 2.00 “ “

Humane Education the . Vital ‘Ne-e‘d',‘ Dr.
Rowley, short radio address, 3 cts. each; 1.50 “ "
Our Little Brothers and Sisters, sermon

for boys and girls, by Dr. Jefferson. .50 “ “
Humane Education, What to Teach and
How to Teach It .................... .50 “ “

Outlines of Study in Humane Education 1.50 “ “

Early Lessons in Kindness or Cruelty .. .50 “ "
A Talk with the Teacher .............. .50 “ “
Our Love for Animals, a short radio ad-

dress .................... 5 cts. each; 2.50 “ “
Hints for Humane Sunday ............ .75 “ "
A Festival of Tender Mercies .......... .50 “ “

he Coming Education ................ .30 “ “
A Great Prophecy, Dr. Rowley ........ Free

American College Presidents and the
American Humane Education Society . . Free

Band of Mercy

“Be Kind to Animals” Buttons, three
styles—Band of Mercy, Humane So-
ciety, or S. P. C. A. ................ $1.00 per 100
Buttons—white star on blue ground with
gilt letters and border, one cent each 1.00 “ “

Badges, gold ﬁnish, large, 10 cts. ........ small, 5 cts.
“Band of Mercy” Pennant ........... 35 cts.
Songs of Happy Life, with music, S.

J. Eddy ............................. 50 cts.
Son 5 of Ha p Life (56 pages, words

ongly) ....p..y ........................ $3.00 per 100
Band of Mercy Membership Card ...... .50 “ “
How to Form Bands of Mercy .. .. .50 “ “

5‘ (I

Does it Pay, Story of one Band of Mercy .30

Please enclose remittance with orders for less than $1

AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY, 180 Longwood Ave., Boston, Mass.

 

letter, dated May 18, 1934:—

 

 

From one of the children of the Shr

Both ﬁlms are available in 16 mm. and 35 mm. size.
Secretary, America-n Humane Education Society,

Do You Realize the Value of Superior Humane Films for use in Theater, Church, Club or School?

THE BELL OF ATRI

Illustrating Longfellow’s humane poem of that title

ON BEHALF OF ANIMALS

Showing the work of the Angell Memorial Hospital and the

Massachusetts S. P. C. A.

“We wish to tell you how much we enjoyed seeing the pictures, “On Behalf of Animals,” and “The Bell of Atri.”
We think that 1t was so nice of Miss Jean Perry to see that the

cats went to the clinic and had casts put on. We have X-r
horses being placed on the operating table.”

Best Home for Horses of the

iners’ Hospitals for Crippled Children, Greenville, South Carolina, came this

.pictures came out to our hospital. The little dogs and
ay pictures taken of ourselves, too. We liked to see the

Write for full particulars to
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston

 

 

 

 

 




 

,.7_ .F-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
   
    

  

GCHL
PEACE ON EARTH,
Kmoness, JUSTICE. 0
AND MERCY T0
EVERY LIVING
CREATURE.

    
 

7.
m
‘3

 

 
   

Founded by Geo. T. Angell Incorporated 1889

For rates of membership in both of our Societies
see back cover. Checks should be made payable to
Treasurer.

Ofﬁcers of the American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds

JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board

CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President, United Shoe
Machinery Corporation

PHILIP STOCKTON, President, First National Bank of
Boston

Foreign Corresponding Representatives

George B. Duff .................... Australia

Luis Pareja Cornejo ............. Ecuador

Charles A. Williams ............. France

Leonard T. Hawksley ........... Italy

Mrs. Mary P. E. Nitobe . . .. .Japan

Mrs. Marie C. E. Houghton ........ Madeira

Dr. A. T. Ishkanian .............. Mexico

Luther Parker .................... Philippine Islands
Joaquin Julia ..................... Spain

Mrs. Alice W. Manning .......... Turkey

Humane Press Bureau
Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke, Secretary
180 Longwood Ave., Boston

Field Workers of the Society

Mrs. Alice L. Park, Palo Alto. California
Mrs. Rachel C. Hogue, San Diego, California
Mrs. Jennie R. Nichols, Tacoma, Washington
James D. Burton. Harriman, Tennessee

Mrs. Katherine Weathersbee, Atlanta, Georgia
Rev. F. Rivers Barnwell, Fort Worth. Texas
Miss Blanche Finley, Richmond, Virginia

Rev. John W. Lemon, Ark, Virginia

Miss Lucia F. Gilbert, Boston, Massachusetts
Mrs. Jennie R. Toomim. Chicago, Ill.
Seymour Carroll, Columbia, S. C.

Rev. R. E. Grifﬁth, De Land, Florida

Field Representative
Wm. F. H. Wentzel, M.S., Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

Field Lecturer in Massachusetts
Ella A. Maryott

Miss Helen S. Cooper

HE Gloucester County District S. P. C.

A., Woodbury, N. J., is mourning the
loss of Miss Helen S. Cooper, for many years
secretary and treasurer of the Society, who
died last April. Through her tireless efforts
the work of the Society went forward until
it was considered one of the most active
in New Jersey. Miss Cooper was instru-
mental in organizing the federation known
as the Associated Humane Workers of
Southern New Jersey, which exerts a strong
inﬂuence throughout the state.

An order banning monkey meat from
Canton restaurants informs the Chinese
that “monkeys possess many of the traits”
exhibited by men. The monkeys are said
to appreciate the protective intent of the
order while resenting its wording.

—Christian Science Monitor

Please remember the American Humane
Education Society in your will.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Bull-fights in Portugal

E are glad to learn from Mrs. Marie

C. E. Houghton, our foreign repre-
sentative in Funchal, Madeira, that the
S. P. C. A. there had a busy year, particu-
larly in its animal hospital. The Society
succeeded in preventing the introduction of
cock-ﬁghts which unscrupulous people tried
to hold in Madeira.

Writing of the barbarous forms of sport
which threaten to get the upper hand in
various countries, Mrs. Houghton writes:

“The worst of all is the great blow that
has been struck the humanitarian work of
years here in Portugal, inasmuch as last
month the law prohibiting the “Touro de
Morte” (the bull-ﬁght in which the bull is
killed), has been revoked. The Societies
P. C. A. have thereby received a severe
blow. For some time past the Lisbon Society
has been ﬁghting this proposal, tooth and
nail. They have done most energetic and
splendid work. Protests have been sent in,
signed by thousands of peOple, among which
the intelligensia, and spiritual élite of
Portugal, take a prominent place. A new
law forbidding this much more barbarous
form of sport, was passed only as recently
as 1928, and signed by the president of the
Republic of Portugal, General Carmona,
who still is president. It would be well that
the fact that this law has been passed in
Portugal were to become known in the out-
side world. Hitherto the bull—ﬁghts in
Portugal were of not quite so brutal a char-
acter, as the bull was not actually killed.

“Many facts about bull-ﬁghts are not
known in the outside world. One, for in-
stance, that the horses used, are, in the
interests of cleanliness in the arena, not
given food and water for 48 hours before
they are exhibited. The thirst they suffer
from in those hot climates, I am told, is in-
describable. Small children are habitually
taken to these shows.”

 

 

Aug. J931;

Pittsburgh
Man Saved
by Dog

Fire broke out in the
building where Eugene
Miller, blind, of Pitts-
burgh, Pa., was working.
His one pleasure and for—
tune is his “Seeing Eye”
dog, “Billie.” When dan—
ger from ﬁre became ap-
parent the dog set forth
calmly to direct his mas-
ter to the stairway and to
the street. This is but one
of a number of acts in
which this dog has rescued
his master from danger.

The picture shows See-
retary W. F. H. Wentzel
of the Western Pennsyl-
vania Humane Society
presenting Mr. Miller with
a humane award in the
form of a dog collar with
chrome plate giving name
of dog, address, and the
facts of the life-saving
event.

 

Retired Workers’ Fund

E are receiving gifts to the American

Humane Education Society as a trust
fund, the interest to be used for the beneﬁt
of ﬁeld missionaries and others who have
spent their live-s in promoting humane
education.

We will welcome your contribution to
this fund. Please make checks payable to
Treasurer, American Humane Education
Society, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, and
specify that the amount contributed is for
the Humane Education Trust Fund.

The Mass. S. P. C. A. also is raising a
fund for employees incapacitated for work.

American Fondouk, Fez,
Morocco

Report for May, 1934—31 Days

Francs
Daily average large animals 24.3
Forage for same 1080.50
Daily average dogs .
Forage for same 36.25
Large animals humanely put to sleep 7 40.00
Transportation 102.00
Wages, grooms, etc. 1394.50
Inspector’s wages 434.00
Superintendent’s salary 2400.00
Assistant’s salary 1250.00
Veterinary’s salary 400.00
Motor allowance 250.00
Sundries 380.50

7767.75

or $517.85
at Frs. 15.00 to the dollar.

Entries: 9 horses, 8 mules, 25 donkeys;

Exits: 5 horses, 4 mules, 21 donkeys.

Monthly Report of Supt.’s Assistant and In-
spector on native fondouks, the two markets for
animals held twice weekly, and distances walked
throughout the Souks and the Medina, the Mellah,
the Ville Nouvelle, where are the Police Head-
quarters, and the Batha Division. Kilometers trav-
led, 311; cases investigated, 814; animals seen, 9,603;
animals treated, 3,094; animals transferred, 25.

SUPT.’S NOTES: The Inspector traveled 311
kilometers, nearly 200 miles. A striking proof of
the distances which separate the various sections of
Fez. Animals in the Medina housed with their
owners are in May and June in good condition,
generally speaking, as they get good green forage
in the ﬁelds where they are taken out in the morn-
ing to work, returning in the evening.

 




 

 

1__.__ '—

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

New England
Trust Company

Boston

Administers Bequests
to Charity
Education—Science

Main Ofﬁce

135 Devonshire Street
Corner of Milk St.

Back Bay Branch
99 Newbury Street

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

For 1 ,
DOGS’

  

largo Roundworms and Hookworms

The safe, easy-to-give worm tre tment.
Dependable. For free boo/11c: WRIIa‘E TO

FREE Write {or

. BOOKLET NO. 652
3. on the practical re-
moval of worms in
5 Dogs of all breeds
and ages.

   
  
 

eﬂectz'vely remove

PARKE, DAVIS 81 CO.

Dub N-58-K ,Animallnduxtry Dept, Detroit, Mich.

—- Drug Stores Sell Parke-Davis Product‘s-

  
 
 

TETRACHLORETHYLENE C. T.

WORM CAPSULES

Humane literature and Band of Mercy Supplies

For Sale at 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass. at these prices, postpaid.
Titles in bold-face type are of books or booklets

The Great Cruelty, summary of Dr. Rowley’s address on humane slaughtering .................. Free

Our Dumb Animals, 1933, bound volume $1.00
Our Dumb Animals, January to Decem-
ber, 1929, 1931, and 1932, bound in
cloth, special, each ................
Colored Posters, 17 x 28 inches, -w1th
attractive pictures and verses, s1x 1n
the set. . ................... ‘ 1. 00
Be Kind to Animals Blotters, 61/8X33/3 ..$O 50 per 100

.1]
0|

About the Horse

Black Beauty (English), cloth, 45 cents;paper, 20 cts.
The Shame of It—Mutilating the horse

by setting up his tail. Dr. Rowley’s

protest against this cruelty for fash-

ion’s sake. Four illus., 4 pp. ..... . Free
What Constitutes Cruelty, Francis H.

Rowley .............................. $0. 30 per 100
The Horse—Treatment of Sores; etc .
Humane Education L-,eaﬂet No.5 ...... .50 “ “
The Horse’s Prayer ................... .30 “ “
The Bell of Atri, Poem by Longfellow .. .50 “ “

About the Dog

Beautiful Joe, new, illus., $1.50 ........ small, 50 cts.
Distemper in Dogs, Dr. Schneider ...... Free
Rabies vs. Running Fits, Dr. Schneider . Free

$1.00 per 100

H {é

Eulogy on the Dog, by Vest, post-card . .
The Dog—Its Care in Health and Disease .60
Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 3 and 4 .50

‘6 ((

The Story of Barry .................... .30 “ “
About the Bird

The Birds of God, 318 pp., illus. ...... cloth, $0. 45

Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 1 and 2.50 per 100

How the Birds Help the Farmer ...... .50 “

The Air-gun and the Birds ............ .50 “ “

About the Cat
The Cat—Its Care in Health and Disease $0. 60 per 100
.5

Surplus Cats .......................... 0

The Cat in Literature .. ......... .50 “ “
Do Not Leave Your Cat to Starve . . .50 “ “
“The Beggar Cat,’ ’po-st card, 6 cts. doz 50 “ “

About Other Animals

Prince Rudolf’s Quest, Kenniston, 150

pp , special . .................. boards, 50 cts.
The Strike at Shane’s, cloth, 30 cts. paper, 7cts.
For Pity’ s Sake . .. paper, 5 cts.
Michael Brother of Jerry, Jack London, cloth, 75 cts.
First Aid to Animals, Dr. Schneider, 8 pp. $1.00 per 100
What is the Jack London Club? .30
Foreword from “Michael Brother of

Jerry” ...... .30 “ “
Gripped in the Teeth of Steel, 2 pp... . . 1.00 “
How to Kill Animals Humanely, 4 pp. 1.00 “ “
Leaﬂets, No. 6, Animals ............... .50 “ “
Leaﬂets, No. 7, Farm Animals ......... .50 “ “
Ways of Kindness ..................... .50 “ “

Humane Education

The Humane Bulletin, for use in schools,
pp ........... 12 cents each, ten for $1.00

Care and Kindness for Our Animal

Friends, 29 pp., paper covers, many
illus. . ........... 15 cents each; seven for $1.00
Kindness Picture Book, 32 pp., 15 cts. ; seven for $1.00

The Teacher’ 5 Helper in Humane Edu-
cation, 32 pp. ..................... each, 10 cts.

Humane Education—for Parents and
Teachers, 20 pp each, 10 cts.
An Early Start to Kindness, Lucia F.
Gilbert, 48 pp. For ﬁrst and second

grades ............................. each, 10 cts.
Picture Lesson Cards, each 10 cts., set
of eight .......................... 35 cts.

each 25 cts.
each, 3 cts.

“Be Kind to Animals” pennants
“Be Kind to Animals” placards
The Humane Idea, Dr. Francis H.

Rowley ............... cloth, 35 cts. ; paper, 15 cts.
Friends and Helpers (selections for

school use), Sarah J. Eddy .......... cloth, 96 cts.
Animals as Seen by the Poets, Guy

Richardson, 32 pp. ................... cloth, 35 cts.

The B—K—T—A—Club, play, 3 cts., each; ten for 250.
Fred Changes His Mind, play, 5 cts. each; six for 25c.
‘And a Little Child Shall Lead Them,’
play. ........ . 3 cts. each; ten for 25 cts.
Friends of Fur and Feather, play, .
3 cts each, ten for 25 cts.
Humane Exercises for use in Schools

(1934) ............................ $1.50 per 100
Humane Day ipn Schools, with class-room
project, 8p .............. 2.00 “ “

Humane Education the Vital Need, Dr.
Rowley, short radio address, 3 cts. each; 1.50
Humane Education, What to Teach and

How to Teach It .................... .50 “ “
A Talk with the Teacher ............. .50 “ “
Our Love for Animals, a short radio ad-

dress . . 5 cts. each; 2.50 “ “
Hints for Humane Sunday ............. .75 “ “
A Festival of Tender Mercies .50 “ “
The Coming Education ........... .30 “ “
A Great Prophecy, Dr. Rowley .. . . . Free
American College Presidents and the

American Humane Education Society . . Free

Band of Mercy

“Be Kind to Animals” Buttons, three
styles—Band of Mercy, Humane So-
ciety, or S. P. C. A.

Buttons—white star on blue ground with
gilt letters and border, one cent each 1.00

$1.00 per 100

‘€ ‘6

Badges, gold ﬁnish, large, 10 cts. ....... small, 5 cts.
“Band of Mercy” Pennant .. . . 35 cts.
Songs of Happy Life, with music, S.

J. Eddy ............................. 5O cts.
Songs of Happy Life (56 pages, words

only} ........ $3.00 per 100
Band of Mercy Membership Card ...... .50 “ “

.50 ‘6 6‘

“ ‘6

How to Form Bands of Mercy 1 _
Does it Pay, Story of one Band of Mercy .30

Please enclose remittance with orders for less than $1

AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY, 180 Longwood Ave., Boston, Mass.

 

 

 

 

 

Why Tolerate Pimples
and Blackheads when

CUTICUBA

Quickly Believes Them
rice 250. each. Sam 1e free.
AAddress: “Cuticura,"Dept.5 ,MaldenMall.

v ‘v—' ‘3‘ —‘—v v“-

 

 

 

 

THIS SPACE
CONTRIBUTED

 

 

 

 

 

BEST HUMANE FILMS!
On Behalf of Animals

Showing activities of Angell Animal HOSpital of Mass. S. P. C. A., scenes
at Rest Farm for Horses, Methuen, etc.
TWO REELS, 30 MINUTES

The Bell of Atri

Illustrating Longfellow’s poem
State whether regular 35 mm, or 16 mm. is required

Terms on application to Secretary, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston

 

 

 

 

 

Since 1 832

J. S. WATERMAN & SONS, Inc.
ﬂauuertakers

BOSTON—BROOKLINE—CAMBRIDGE
City and Out-of—Town Service

 

 

 

 

 

 

A HUMANE LIBRARY FOR $1
Bound volumes of OUR DUMB ANIMALS
for 1933, twelve numbers, 192 pp., 150 illus-
trations, green cloth, gilt titles. An attractive
gift to hotels, hospitals, institutions of all
kinds, and to individuals. Order today from

180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 1’70

 
 
  
     

GLORY TO
GOD,
PEACE ON EARTH,
KINDNESS, JUSTICE
AND MERCY TO
EVERY LIVING

  
   

  

7
$
m
2‘;

 

  

Founded by Geo. T. Angell Incorporated 1889

For rates of membership in both of our Societies
see back cover. Checks should be made payable
to Treasurer.

Ofﬁcers of the American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds

JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First
of Boston Corporation.

CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President, United Shoe
Machinery Corporation.

PHILIP STOCKTON, President, First National Bank of
Boston

Foreign Corresponding Representatives

George B. Duff .................... Australia

Luis Pareja Cornejo .............. Ecuador

Charles A. Williams .............. France

Leonard T. Hawksley ............. Italy

Mrs. Mary P. E. Nitobe ......... Japan

Mrs. Marie C. E. Houghton ...... Madeira

Dr. A. T. Ishkanian ............... Mexico

Luther Parker .................... Philippine Islands
Joaquin Julia ..................... Spain

Mrs. Alice W. Manning ........... Turkey

Humane Press Bureau

Edith Washburn Clarke, Secretary
180 Longwood Ave., Boston

Mrs.

Field Workers of the Society
Mrs. Alice L. Park, Palo Alto, California
Mrs. Rachel C. IIogue, San Diego, California
Mrs. Jennie R. Nichols, Tacoma, Washington
James D. Burton. Harriman, Tennessee
Mrs. Katherine Weathersbee, Atlanta, Georgia
Rev. F. Rivers Barnwell, Fort Worth, Texas
MISS Blanche I-"inley, Richmond, Virginia
Rev. John W. Lemon, Ark, Virginia
MISS Lucia F. Gilbert, Boston, Massachusetts
Mrs. Jennie R. Toomim, Chicago, Ill.
Seymour Carroll, Columbia, S. C.
Rev. R. E. Griffith, De Land, Florida

Field Representative

Wm. F. H. Wentzel, M.S., Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

Field Lecturer in Massachusetts

Ella A. Maryott

Societies’ Annuity Bonds

MAN Y men and women, lovers of ani-
mals, are getting both happiness and
material comfort from our two Societies’
Annuity Bonds. These bonds are absolutely
safe and yield a return according to one’s
age. They make their appeal ordinarily to
people over 40 years of age. Send the
coupon for a free folder which gives full
details. Fill in the coupon and mail it now.

The Massachusetts S. P. C. A. (or)
The American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Ave., Boston, Mass.

Without obligation to me, please send

me your folder which tells all about your
Annuity Bonds.

...............................

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Bull-fighting in Morocco

ROM information received from our

American Fondouk in Fez it would
seem that bull-ﬁghts have been planned for
at Casablanca. Petitions have been sent out
by the Morocco Union for the Protection
of Animals, headquarters at Casablanca,
earnestly asking for signatures in protest
of these barbarous exhibitions. Let us
hope that this is not going to be a perma-
nent so-called amusement in Morocco.

We have been glad to learn that the
Grammont Law, which is the French law
for the prevention of cruelty to animals,
has become effective in Morocco. This is
a happy surprise, for, though the Gram-
mont Law, of ancient date, seeks to pro-
hibit only such cruelty to animals as may
occur outside of a man’s own premises,
its penalties and ﬁnes being very light,
still it is better than nothing. The rest
of the humane world has been hoping
for the day when France would have anti-
cruelty laws similar to those of other
civilized nations.

Munition Makers and War

Several times during past years we have
called attention to the part played by man-
ufacturers of armaments in stirring up
strife between nations. The life of Zahar-
off, the Mystery Man of Europe, which we
read some years ago, was a revelation of
the part played by such concerns in caus-
ing war. What war might mean in the
way of bloodshed, suffering, death and the
breaking of human hearts and homes mat-
tered little so that out of these tragedies
they might ﬁll their coffers. The disclos-
ures so far made public by the Committee
on Munitions in Washington are telling a
pitiful tale of the lust for gain and the
lengths to which it will drive its victims.

Freakish Humming-bird
Nest

MARGARET SHELTON

Outdoing the Los Angeles humming-bird
which built its nest on top of a light globe,
a mother humming-bird has raised her suc-
cessive families for eighteen years in a tiny
nest built on an electric light cord on the
front porch of the residence owned by Judge
William D. Dehy, judge of the Superior
Court of Inyo County, California. The
light cord is an ordinary one which sways
in the breeze as it is not fastened at the
lower end. Each year some addition to
the nest has been made until now it eX-
tends up the cord from the light bulb a dis-
tance of about six inches.

This year the mother humming-bird re-
turned to the same nest, laid two tiny eggs,
hatched them, and then sent two small
ﬂedgelings on their way into the big world.
This mother bird deﬁed all the laws of
gravity and good taste in building her nest,
but she has raised her family successfully
in this tiny home for eighteen successive
years.

Please remember the American Humane
Education Society in your will.

Nov. 1934

Who Won the War—
The War of Wars?

Who won the war—the war of wars? Not
those who fought and tried

To bolster up a futile faith—and then in
shambles died.

The war was won by no one save the
usurers who lent

Their ill-gained cash, and never near the
scenes of slaughter went.

’Twas won by many proﬁteers, whose battle-
charges made

Belonged to those who at the start became
the Home Brigade.

It was not won by those who died, nor yet
by those who plead

For doctors’ care and stomach fare to save
them from their need.

Better Moving Pictures

E are glad to reproduce here a

letter written by one of our work—

ers to each of the three leaders, Protes-

tant, Catholic and Jewish, in the present

movement for clean movies. It should also

be said that our two Societies are afﬁliated

with the Motion Picture Research Council

in striving for the same goal sought in the
letter.

“To you, as a foremost leader in the
campaign for cleaner movies, I am writing
a most earnest entreaty that you will make
a tremendous ﬁght not only against im-
morality, as fostered by the movies, but
also against the equally degrading vice of
cruelty to animals, as also fostered by them.
A few years ago, a movie which showed
cruelty to animals, or which involved such
cruelty in its production, was severely
criticized. Now the agonies of dumb crea-
tures are witnessed on the screen without
sympathy, without horror, without criti-
cism,——and with amusement. We are fast
returning to the contests in the Roman
amphitheaters where the tortures of the
helpless were seen as entertainment.

“There is surely nothing on earth so
completely demoralizing to a child or to
society, to our children or to the future of
our country, as the death of mercy and
the triumph of cruelty. The many movies
which show cruelty to animals are doing
a very effective part in bringing about this
demoralization.

“I implore you to make the ﬁght against
these cruel movies an integral part of your
campaign. And may God bless you!”

Very respectfully yours,

LUCIA F. GILBERT

H umane Workers’ Fund

We are receiving gifts to the American
Humane Education Society as a trust fund,
the interest to be used for the beneﬁt. of
ﬁeld missionaries and others who have
spent their lives in promoting humane edu—
cation.

We will welcome your contribution to
this fund. Please make checks payable to
Treasurer, American Humane Education
Society, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston,
and specify that the amount contributed is
for the Humane Education Trust Fund.

 

 




 

 

F?b.1934
Crime Against Childhood '

GREEN

OME of the zest of life has departed

from childhood this sunny morning;
something has brought tears to the blue
eyes of yellow-haired Betty and chubby
Bobby’s usual spirits are lacking. “Buster”
frisks about in customary canine capers but
the companion of his usual morning frolic
does not thrust a yellow paw from his cat-
hood’s box behind the stove.

A new murderer is at large in the land
but his crime will not be spread in news-
print. The only evidence of his guilt is in
a new mound of dark earth beneath the
evergreen tree on the front lawn. Here a
sprawling childish scrawl has lettered on a
pine board headstone one word, “Fluffy.”

Fluffy wasn’t pedigreed; the blood of
many strains flowed in his feline» veins;
Angora, Persian, and that of the many-
hued species which frequents fragrant hay-
mows in the age-long quest of mice.‘

Although he was murdered as surely as
any killing ever deserved this term, his
death was accidental. It was for Buster

S. H.

that the choice bit of poisoned liver was'

tossed over the fence on Saturday night;
for Buster has ever a watchful eye on the
little coop where the handsome White Rocks
reside; and some almost less than human
being desired free fowl for Sunday’s dinner.

But Buster has friends in the neighbor-
hood and went calling on that tragic even-
ing. Fluffy had no engagement except the
self-imposed homework of watching a sus-
piciously new hole at the woodshed’s edge.
However, there came to his nostrils that
delicious odor beloved by cats of high and
low degree. Mouse-watching was neglected
as he devoured the generous morsel; drowsi-
ness overcame him on the porch step and he
slept—never to waken.

The stealthy poisoner who takes the lives
of Childhood’s pets causes poignant sorrows.
We sincerely trust that even his hardened
conscience cannot keep from him visions of
the tear-stained cheeks of the two little
children as they knelt beneath the ever-
green tree at Sunday’s dawn and repeated
their only prayer, “Now I Lay Me ,” as
father covered the tiny wooden box and
wiped more than one tear from his own

 

eyes.

 

CHILDHOOD’S PETS ARE VERY REAL FRIENDS

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Wings of the Pronghorn
SILVERQUILL

N the far west the antelope has been a

thing of controversy for more than half
a century.

First, it seemed impossible to settle the
question of how this animal’s horns devel—
oped. Some argued that they were shed
each recurring season, like those of the
deer; while others declared there was only
a steady growth. At last it appears that
this matter has been settled beyond dispute.
A new shell is grown each year under the
old one, like the skin of a snake, after which
the latter is discarded. As soon as it gets
into contact with the ripening heat of the
sun the new covering hardens into the usual
consistency.

Then, there was the proposition of how
fast an antelope could run. One faction
contended, feverishly, that men of the range
were in the habit of “roping” these winged
citizens of the prairie and the mesa from
the backs of ordinary horses, and that with-
out any particular difﬁculty; while common
greyhounds could pick them up at their
pleasure. Those on the other side denied
these things emphatically as nothing but
the cheapest of ﬁctions. So the matter ran
on, for and against, ad inﬁnitum.

To all of which it may be replied that no
horse ever ﬁlled lung with air, ridden or
free; and no dog that ever gave chase over
the circle'of the earth, could keep within
riﬂe shot of a pronghorn if the creature
were really to let himself out. Happily, this
matter has been settled in a very practical
and satisfactory way.

Near the little uncurried border town of
Burns, located in Eastern Oregon, where a
very robust ghost of the old days of the
colt and the “draw” still skulks about, there
are, in the dry season, wide, perfectly level
lake beds, which in the spring are covered
with only a few inches of water. Under a
torrid sun this evaporates, leaving a hard
and gleaming surface which is ideal for rac-
ing purposes.

To one of these vast rinks of Nature an
antelope and a deer were taken recently,
and chased in a high-powered car, by which
it was demonstrated, according to reports
of the tryout, that the pronghorn ran at a
speed of sixty-two miles per hour over a
distance of ﬁve miles;
while it is claimed that
the deer made a record
of forty-ﬁve for one
mile.

Allowing for minor
inaccuracies in this
test, it is no doubt
close to the truth, so
that it may be said
with all authority that
there is nothing that
has feet, by any name
in any clime, that can
ever keep anywhere
near an American an-
telope when one of
them really decides to
leave his pursuers.

When moving or go-
ing away for a holiday,
do not be so cruel as
to leave your cat.

 

Our Canine Sherlock
Holmes
ROBERTBL HYATT
LOODHOUNDS! The very mention of

the word stirs the pulses. One in-
stantly envisions the trailing pack, noses
skimming the ground, in hot pursuit of a
fugitive. Which is as it should be, in part.
Yet, despite the fact that his fearsome name
has won him unjust notoriety, he is the
most gentle of all hounds. .

Quiet and tranquil in his habits, the blood-
hound is the picture of digniﬁed solemnity.
This effect is heightened by the loose folds
of skin making deep furrows and large
wrinkles all over his well-domed head and
face.

The bloodhound is peculiarly adapted to
trailing. He runs with a lithe, swinging
gait. The head is held low, with thin, long
ears falling in graceful folds. His scenting
apparatus is the most acute of all dogs.
He has been known to hold a trail for as
much as 30 hours. His name seems some-
what misleading. It is derived from his
original use as a tracker of wounded and
bleeding game. Yet he never attacks the
object of his search. Further, he requires
no blood—marked trail in order to follow the
quarry. When once he is put on a track, he
will follow it unerringly, even when many
other scents have crossed over the trail.
This great trailing ability has made him
popular with police departments all over the
world. Today he is used frequently to run
down escaped criminals and other fugitives.

The bloodhound’s origin is somewhat
doubtful. Many authorities claim he was
introduced into England by William the
Conqueror; others hold that he came with
the Pilgrims from the Holy Land. Records
of the fourteenth century refer to him as
the sleuthhound. He has also been called
the St. Hubert. Among the several vari-
eties of this famous canine are the English,
the Cuban and the African, most of which
are tawny in color, with black noses. They
are notable for their deep-set, sorrowful
eyes, hazel or yellowish tint, and their ex-
cessively developed dewlaps and ﬂews.

Bloodhound puppies are remarkably easy
to rear. Born very small, they rapidly
attain adult growth, and when mature often
tip the scales at 90 pounds or more. With
all his traditional prowess as a tracker,
don’t forget that the bloodhound is at heart
as gentle and peaceful as your old “Rover.”

 

 




 

 

 

 

/
Published monthly by the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

Entered as second-class matter,
Acceptance for mailing at special rate

Boston Ofﬁce, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston,

Vﬂﬂ.67

The tax on dogs in Paris is 40 francs
(about $2.60); in Vienna 12 schillings
(about $2.25); in New York and Boston
$2.00; in Chicago $3.00. Germany has over
three-and-a—half million dogs subject to tax;
France over 5 million.

The British Board of Agriculture and
Fisheries has issued a pamphlet to the effect
that the starling is a valuable aid to agri-
culture. It says “from the forest standpoint
it is entirely useful, while in agriculture
and gardening its usefulness far more than
outweights the harm done.”

Who want war? A carefully prepared
article in the Boston Herald of March 4
tells us. It’s not the men who were in the
last war. It’s not the people of any land.
It’s chieﬂy the soulless manufacturers of
munitions who have piled up millions for
themselves over the graves of millions of
their fellows. May the day come when
such war material as must be manufactured
shall be wholly taken out of the hands of
private companies.

The 1934 Annual Report of the splendid
Scottish S. P. C. A. of Edinburgh says the
Royal S. P. C. A. of England has now the
entry into every school throughout England
and Wales with its humane education work.

This same report says also what we
emphasized in our last report that prosecu-
tions for cruelty are steadily decreasing;
evidence that the public is taking a greater
interest in the care and treatment of
animals.

Still one more statement in this report:
The Royal S. P. C. A. is behind eleven bills
now before Parliament which have to do
with the welfare of animals. It’s a long
while since any such measure has receive-d
any attention in our United States Con-
gress. Much is left in this country to the
separate States. Federal laws for the pro-
tection of animals are chieﬂy concerned
with their welfare in connection with inter-
state trafﬁc. -

o 1. ANGELL ’

N 1868.AND FOR FORTy.

The Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

The American Humane Education Society

The American Band of Mercy

I would not enter on my list of friends,
Though graced with polished manners and ﬁne sense,
Yet wan-ting sensibility, the man
Who needlessly sets foot upon a. worm.
——COWPER

June 29. 1917, at the Post Ofﬁce at Norwood, Mass.,

U. S.Trade MarkBegistered n 1

ONE
yEARS ED 17‘

so 8,, 1m,

I 1
PEACE on EARTH,

Kmonsss, JUSTICE
AND Mancv 1‘0“ ~
EVERY leme

CREATURE.

 

, 46 Central Street, N orwood, Massachusetts
under the Act of March 3, 1879

of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 3, 1917, authorized, July 13, 1919

[Xprﬂ,l934

Tomorrow—What ?

RE we, humane workers, facing the
A future with hope or with discourage-
ment? Have we a right to look forward
with hope, driving discouragement from our
hearts? Yes, and many times, yes! And
this answer is meant particularly for that
brave, often discouraged, humane worker
holding on with grim determination in some
small city or town to perhaps only what is
left of a once promising humane society.
With almost no money to command, with
scarcely any public interest to come to her
aid (for it’s generally a woman) this brave
soul wonders if it pays, wonders if the
whole cause isn’t losing its grip on the mind
of the world.

Am I an optimist with regard to this
great cause we are serving? I am. Not be-
cause I shut my eyes to the facts that every
thoughtful man must face. Not because
there are not round all this whirling globe
of ours ten thousand times ten thousand
abodes of cruelty, but because of what the
years and the centuries have to teach us.
Lights ﬂash back upon us from the pages
of history. Remember that it is only a little
over a hundred years ago that the ﬁrst so-
ciety for the prevention of cruelty to
animals was founded. One such society in
one land—England! Now there is no land
that claims even a name among men that
is without one or more such societies.
Cruelties that for generations were as com-
mon as death and taxes are almost uni-
versally condemned. Only in such back-
ward countries as Spain and Mexico and
certain parts of France are the brutalities
of the bull-ﬁght permitted. Less than a
hundred years ago men and women were
thought a little queer who protested against
bull-baiting, dog-ﬁghting and the public
tormenting of animals for the amusement of
the populace. Now laws exist in nearly
every country to protect all our domestic
animals, our household pets, even birds, yes,
and rats that must be destroyed, from
needless suffering in their destruction.

Faster, a thousand times faster, has our
cause advanced than many another. Slav-
ery! That blot upon our early history!

Mass.

lﬁo.4

Defe-nded by a hundred pulpits! Men
thinking it perfectly consistent with their
Christian profession to trade in slaves, en-
ticing the innocent African aboard the
ships and then crowding them down into
the ship’s hold to be transported and sold!

Think of the days when in Christian Eng-
land, even in the early years of the nine-
teenth century, little children, girls and
boys, half naked, seven, eight, ten years old,
worked in the dark of the coal mines often
to their waists in water; or slaving in the
mills from dawn till dark. Only recently
in this land of ours has child labor in our
own mills been given its death blow.

No, no, we must not be discouraged. Take
heart, lonely worker! Bad as things are,
they are vastly better than even ﬁfty years
ago with the cause we serve. All may be
far from “right with the world,” but no
man shall rob us of our conviction that
“God’s in his Heaven.”

Conﬁrming what‘ we have said above,
read the following from the distinguished
writer, Emil Ludwig, in “Animals and
People” in the Boston American:—“Never
has such care been taken of animals as
today. Societies, private clubs and individ-
uals vie with each other in their zeal to
protect the domestic animal to save it from
torture and from overwork and to prevent
its suffering a painful death. Animal books
are printed in every known language and
the tremendous sales of these books testify
to the love for and interest in animals that
prevails today.”

The Ten Clever Ones

Our good friend, Dr. W. Reid Blair, di-
rector of the New York Zoological Park, is
quoted in the New York Times Magazine as
rating in intelligence these ten animals as
follows:

1. The chimpanzee
2. The orang-utan
3. The elephant 8. The sea lion

4. The gorilla 9. The bear

5'. The domestic dog 10. The domestic cat

6. The beaver
7. The domestic horse

He speaks out of thirty—two years of inti-
mate association with the animal world.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

May, 1934

covered police headquarters, municipal de-
partments, including ﬁre and City Hall and
at times various banquets, and the taking
of public speeches on varied occasions. It is
important that a man covering such assign—
ments at night should be within ready touch
of the city desk, that his city or night editor
might in an emergency reach him promptly.

On these nightly rounds my dog Rover
was almost my shadow. He was known to
the heads of all the municipal departments
from daily or nightly association with me.
Around his neck was fastened a small rub-
ber pouch. Often I have put manuscript in
this pouch and told the dog to deliver it at
the newspaper ofﬁce. Always he was faith-
ful in carrying out instructions. On reach-
ing the ofﬁce he would report to the city
desk, never loitering on the way. To the
city editor he would give a subdued bark
for recognition. On the copy being removed,
and the command, “Go back to your mas-
ter,” being given, the dog would give an im—
patient bark, as though there had been an
omission. Finally the city editor would
remark, “Oh, you are awaiting your 0. K.?
Is that it?” A bark in acknowledgment,
the placing of the O. K. in- the pouch, and
away would bound-the dog, but never with-
out that O. K. of acknowledgment of _a
faithful performance of duty. Wherever I
might have gone, that knowing dog would
search me out, ready for further service.
It mattered not where I went, that dog al-
ways found me, and insisted on my remov—
ing from his pouch the O. K. which signi-
ﬁed a duty he had performed as per instruc-
tions given him.

Making Your Pet Under-
stand
L. E. E‘UBANKS

YOUNG friend of mine who likes ani—

mals particularly well complains that
the pets he has tried never grow as tame
as he thinks they should. He has about
concluded, with speciﬁc reference to cats,
that it depends mostly on the breed. The
parents of the kitten he now has were
“alley cats,” and their baby will always be
somewhat wild and unresponsive, he be-
lieves.

Heredity has some inﬂuence, but it is
mostly a matter of how the cat is treated.
This young man is busy throughout the day,
and usually away from home at night. He
feeds the kitten regularly, provides a good
bed, etc., but does not often pet it.

The great secret of success in making a
pet love you and always welcome your atten-
tion is kind words. Nothing, not even rub-
bing and patting, will take the place of talk,
though tender handling is important. That
animals talk to each other is beyond doubt,
and there is the voice of love,vthe voice of
anger, fear, and so on.

A cat of mine will jump onto my lap and
lie there contentedly while I write. With
one hand I rub him, and he likes it; but
when I talk to him he looks at me lovingly
and purrs. He’ll continue to “talk” back to
me that way even if I stop the rubbing,
just as long as he is close to me and hears
my voice, low and kind.

If you desire the maximum of pleasure
from a pet, its affection, understanding and
responsiveness must be developed; and the

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Page ’7 5

 

TRIO OWNED BY MRS. L. G. CROSS, GLOUCESTER, MASS.

 

surest of all ways is to talk to him at
every opportunity—the more the better, un-
less he is sleepy or ill. .

At ﬁrst, your pet may seem unaffected;
you’ll wonder if he even hears you. The
experiment of changing your voice, speak-
ing loud and harshly, will quickly convince
you that the animal is listening; for he will
show alarm and fear.

Endearing words, always low and soft,
while you caress the animal, will soon come
to be his greatest delight, and his love for
you the greatest thing in his life—all too
meager at best. It takes longer with some
animals than with others, even of the same
species; but if the creature is tamable at
all, kind words will make him understand
and love you.

How Did “Nellie” Know?

JOHN L. PERHAM

ONCE owned a horse named “Nellie” and

it was a pleasure to drive her. She was
such a willing animal! It was her delight
to take you swiftly around corners and the
harder you hung to the lines, the more she
seemed to go. She was used on a milk de-
livery wagon and faithfully performed her
task, standing when asked -and ready to re-
spond when requested to start again.

Each morning after going a short dis-
tance from home Nellie had to make a turn
to the right to go to town to deliver milk.
On Sunday when I went to church a turn
had to be made at the same place, to the
left hand, and Nellie soon came to under-
stand when Sunday came and would easily
make the turn in that direction.

To satisfy myself that the mare did this
of her own accord I purposely let the lines
lay loosely and she took the left hand turn
on Sunday as easily and naturally as she
did the right hand turn the other six days
of the week.

Now, how did Nellie know when Sunday
came and take the opposite road from what
she did the rest of the week? In some way
she seemed to have reasoned it out and
surely she set a good example to those who
seem to forget when the Lord’s Day comes
and take the road they have been traveling
all the week.

And yet some will say Nellie was “only
a horse.”

Lonesome Weather
MRS. JEAN E. GARTH

Awful dreary, lonesome weather!

Dog and me stray 0]?“ together
Trailin’ down the lane;

Kind 0’ dreamin’, sort 0’ wishin’

As our feet go swishin’, swishin’,
Walkin’ through the rain.

Raindrops sprinkle ’cross the water,

Circles chasin’ one another,
Blinkin’ on the bay;

Leaves are tinklin’ as we listen,

Wheels on slippery roads are hissin’,
Skiddin’ ’long the way.

Awful dreary, hauntin’ weather!
Dog and me stray 0]?“ together
Through the fading light;
Kind 0’ dr‘eaanin’, sort 0’ wishin’,
As our feet go swishin’, swishin’
’Long the edge 0’ night.

Clever Cattle Dogs of Cuba

Sheep-dogs are world-famed for their de—
votion and intelligence; but have you ever
heard of cattle-dogs?

Visitors to Cuba are amazed at the clev-
erness of these dogs of the island. In some
of the ports animals that are brought from
the American continent cannot be landed
directly on the shore. The steamer is taken
as near shore as possible and the cattle
must swim to land.

To show the animals the most direct
route, specially trained dogs are employed.
Beside each animal two of the dogs swim,
pushing the creature with their noSes just
behind its ears.

As soon as- the beast’s feet touch the
bottom, and the dogs feel that their charge
is safe, they at once return to the ship to
bring in another one. This the clever dogs
will do again and again without receiving

any orders from their masters.
P. B. P.

Don’t forget the dog needs his bath regu-
larly in warm weather and likes to have
his coat combed and brushed. Castile soap
is best for his coat.

Don’t forget that a damp and unclean
kennel causes sickness and disease.

 




 

 

£01- “NOE

U.S.Trade Mark,Registered n 1

LL m 1868.AND FOR roan.

The Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

The American Humane Education Society

The American Band of Mercy

I would not enter on my list of friends,
Though graced with polished manners and ﬁne sense,
Yet wanting sensibility, the man
Who needlessly sets foot upon a worm.
-—COWPER

ONE YEARS

’ GLORY 'ro
GOD,
PEACE on EARTH,

AND Mancv TO'
EVERY LIVING
CREATURE.

 

Entered asOsecond-classmatter, June 29. 1917, at the Post Ofﬁce at Norwood, Mass., under the Act of March 3, 1879
Acceptance for mailing at spec1al rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 3, 1917, authorized, July 13, 1919

Boston Ofﬁce, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

 

Vol. 67

July, 1934

No. 7

 

According to the best accountancy ﬁg-
ures, so says an article in Fortune, it cost
approximately $25,000 to kill a soldier dur-
ing the World War.

We shall be glad to send the humane so-
cieties of other states, should they desire
it, a copy of the law just secured in Massa-
chusetts, against the showing of horses with
set-up and docked tails. This law, secured
in all our states, would, in a short time,
stop a practice which is at once cruel and
senseless.

A bill to repeal all laws protecting sea
lions in Alaskan waters has been introduced
into Congress. The sea lion is said to be
intelligent, interesting and harmless. Even
now ﬁshermen may kill them if they are dis—
covered doing damage. Write the Hon.
Schuyler O. Bland protesting against House
Bill 8639. It ought not to pass.

A mounted escort of police in San Fran-
cisco on Monday of Be Kind to Animals
Week led down Market Street of that city
eight retired and pensioned police horses
taken over by the San Francisco S. P. C.
A. for future days of rest in green pas-
tures. It wasia ﬁne object lesson. Many a
city would have sold them or destroyed
them.

How many cattle, sheep and swine per-
ished in that ﬁre-swept area of the Chicago
stockyards May 19? We do not know. The
newspaper reports, so far as we have seen,
dwell only upon the loss of buildings, cattle-
pens and other property to which no ﬁre
could bring terror or pain. We must hope
that in the rebuilding of the cattle-pens,
the economic interests of the packing com-
panies will demand better protection for
the animals they handle than the past has
known. We doubt not nobler motives than
economic ones will also play their part in
the new accommodations to be provided.
Later word received from one of the great
packing-houses of Chicago says that only
600 cattle were destroyed by the ﬁre and
100 horses.

In making your will, remember the Ameri-
can Humane. Education Society, Boston.

Our New Law Against The Shame of It

HE setting up of horses’ tails for show

purposes we called “The Shame of It.”

We sought a law that would prohibit
in Massachusetts the showing of horses with
tails either set up or docked. That law we
have secured. Once it is unlawful to show
such horses the practice of so mutilating
them will cease, that is, in every state where
such a law is in force.

Here is the law.

Chapter 234

THE COMMONWEALTH OF
MASSACHUSETTS

In the Year One Thousand Nine Hundred
and Thirty—Four

AN ACT relative to the Cutting of the
Muscles or Tendons of Horses’ Tails and to
the Showing or Exhibiting of Horses whose
Tails have been so Cut or have been Docked.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of
Representatives in General Court assembled,
and by the authority of the same, as follows:

Section 1. Chapter two hundred and sev-
enty-two of the General Laws is hereby
amended by striking out section eighty, as
appearing in the Tercentenary Edition
there-of, and inserting in place thereof the
two following sections:—

Section 79A. Whoever cuts the bone of
the tail of a horse for the purpose of dock-
ing the tail, or whoever causes or knowingly
permits the same to be done upon premises
of which he is the owner, lessee, proprietor
or user, or whoever assists in or is present
at such cutting, shall be punished by im-
prisonment for not more than one year or
by a ﬁne of not less than one hundred nor
more than three hundred dollars; and who-
ever cuts the muscles or tendons of the tail
of a horse for the purpose of setting up the
tail, or whoever causes or knowingly per-
mits the same to be done upon premises of
which he is the owner, lessee, proprietor or
user, or whoever assists in or is present at
such cutting, shall be punished by a ﬁne of
not more than two hundred and ﬁfty dol-
lars. If a horse is found with the bone of
its tail cut as aforesaid or with the muscles
or tendons of its tail cut as aforesaid and
with the wound resulting from such cutting
unhealed, upon the premises or in the charge

and custody of any person, such fact shall
be prima facie evidence of a violation of
this section by the owner or user of such
premises or the person having such charge
or custody, respectively.

Section 7.93. Whoever shows or exhibits
at any horse show or exhibition in the com-
monwealth a horse with its tail cut in either
manner prohibited in section seventy-nine A
shall be punished by a ﬁne of not more than
two hundred and ﬁfty dollars.

Section 2. The provisions of section one
shall not prohibit the showing or exhibiting
at a horse show or exhibit of a horse with
its tail cut in either manner prohibited by
section one, if the owner of such horse fur-
nishes to the manager or other ofﬁcial hav-
ing charge of the horse show or exhibition
at which it is shown or exhibited an afﬁdavit
by the owner, in a form approved by the
director of the division of animal industry
of the department of conservation, that the
tail of' such horse was so cut prior to the
passage of this act. Said afﬁdavit shall
state the sex and age of the horse and de-
scribe its markings, if any, and shall be sub-
ject to inspection by any ofﬁcer or agent
mentioned in section eighty—four of said
chapter two hundred and seventy-two, as
so appearing.

Of course, it permits the showing of
horses with set-up or docked tails where the
tails have been so mutilated before our law
goes into effect. None can be shown in
Massachusetts should the operation be per-
formed after Septembr 1, 1934, and the
operation within the state of setting up the
tail is prohibited, as docking has been for
many years. Of course, we could have
prosecuted anyone during the past whom we
could have discovered cutting the tendons
of a horse’s tail for the purpose of setting
it up, but the deed is done so secretly that
the discovery of it has been practically
impossible.

The history of the movement which has
resulted in the legislation obtained: Nearly
ten years ago the President of the Massa-
chusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruel-
ty to animals received a letter from a prom-
inent horse show judge condemning the

 

 

 

 




 

1

 

 

 

 

Page 1;

them know what Humane Education stands
for. Do not give the impression that all you
are trying to do is to persuade them to- be
kind to animals. Seek that end as you may,
emphasize it as you may, it is only because;
once they are led to recognize the animals
claim upon them for just and klndly treat-
ment, you know they will also the more
quickly feel the same» claim upon them of
their human brothers and sisters. This has
been the teaching of experience since the
day this Society was founded. ‘

Look at our Seal. What was in the mind
of the founder when he wrote upon 1t,
“Peace on Earth, Kindness, Justice, Mercy
to every living creature?” Peace on earth!
We stand now and always for that. Always
against the insanity, the barbarism, the
murderous cruelty of war. Never forget
this. Never fail to lay this thought upon
the heart of youth. Always, too, we stand
for a patriotism that believes that a nation,

no more than an individual, lives unto it-

self. That sovereign truth lies in the words,
“a man’s a man for a’ that,” and that “above
all nations is humanity,” and that whether
Scythian, bond or free, he is a brother
man to be treated as we would want to be
treated were we in his place. Never more
than in our day do our children, and all of
us, need to know this eternal truth. The
American Humane Education Society is an
International Peace Society, and we are

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Life’s Darkest MOmen

Jan. 1931;

“That’s a lie,” answered

BY webSte" Walner, spiritedly; “cruelty

 

 

 

, I , 1 ’ -.
Eff/'13,”; '
if 57' «7/ A Mi " “o"
' “59%
.. ‘, .I': , .
t ' 4 . ’ "1‘, ~
9“: l’ I‘. .
T ",1

 

\

and suffering are absolutely
inseparable from trapping.
Even if what the trappers
say Were true, where is the
one who never fails to run
his line promptly? All kinds
of things bob up to prevent
it. Also, many lines are so
long that some of the trapped
creatures are bound to endure
their torture for many hours.
Further, some trappers work
over widely separated areas.
When such a. fellow works
alone, neglect is inevitable.”

“Is it true,” I asked, “that
a trapped animal will some-
times gnaw off his foot to
escape?”

“It’s not so very uncommon
among the smaller fur-bear-
ers,” explained Walner. “Any-
thing can happen in that
murderous business. I was
told by a bear trapper that
he once saw a mother bear
kill her cub because she could
not free him from a trap.
Either she could not endure
the youngster’s suffering, or
she knew he would be a goner

 

anyway when the trapper
came.” ~
“It must be a one-sided

' ' \\ ”NV/ii?“ ll ‘ "10"” Will H}. 1 \
faithless to the trust committed to us if we \ \' \ \\\\\ ‘\\\_\n‘,{} \y l\l n" , MW 5

NO ANsweR “ . . I\ \ ,. \\ \u/n“ ,{1
\ ‘ \ .t .
. \ \ \ \. (I ‘
\\‘ \I“ 3‘ \ \> \ \ \\ \I\”\\ \ \‘l [Ti/ﬁ /

fail to proclaim this truth from every house-
top we can reach. Whenever, then, we de-

 

 

.;“;.‘ 4.3:— L . -.., .;_.‘.;...,_ <__.;‘....,-..._'.l;._,’..

I 3...; A.» be;— 1 .. a. .:;_._‘_—‘.l- “-4.:

liver our message, whether before young or
old, let it be known that for the world-
wide recognition of these four divinely sanc-
tioned principles, Peace, Kindness, Justice,
Mercy, Humane Education has its being. A
generation following the guiding lights of
these great ideals will prove the foe of all
cruelty to both man and beast.

In Protest

ELMA MARLATT DEAN

I never see a tawny jungle king,

In home of clammy steel and hard cement,

In whose wild eyes there burns a d’eathless
thing, .

A seething never-ending discontent,

Without a hot resentment in my heart

And great rebellion in the soul of me

That I should even play a minor part

In such a stark uncalled for tragedy.

A mangy polar bear who by his gate

Forever stands and wags a weary head

In sorrow at an unrelenting fate

Were better 0]? to join the happy dead:

If it seem right to torture these untamed,

Then let our fancied culture be ashamed!

 

Jack London Said :

Let all humans inform themselves of
the inevitable and eternal cruelty by
the means of which only can animals
be compelled to perform before rev-
enue-paying audiences. Show the man-
agement that such turns are unpopu-
lar, and in a day, in an instant, the
management will cease catering such
turns to its audiences.

 

 

 

\ \\ .
I933 v0.1 TRIIDNEJNC

 

game,” I commented, “with

 

New York Tribune

no chance for the animals.”
“Very little chance,” Wal-

 

A Trapper’s Story

LESTER BANKS

RECENTLY I formed the acquaintance
of a Mr. Walner, who spent two suc-
cessive winters trapping in the wilds of
Canada. He had been unemployed for so
long that, in his own words, he was ready
to try anything; and a friend who had made
some money from trapping recommended the
venture.

Walner, too, returned with some cash;
but he says that he would starve rather than
go through the same experiences again. His
health improved from the outdoor life, and
he learned a great deal about nature and
wild life; but he says there are inner
wounds that will never heal—memories of
suffering by the victims of his traps.

“I honestly believe,” he told me, “that I’ll
feel better when I’ve spent what I made: in
the North, and can get a clean start; these
dollars are ‘blood money’.”

“I should think it would have a coarsen-
ing effect on any person,” I suggested.

“Decidedly,” Mr. Walner admitted. “I
lived alone much of the time; and I noticed
more and more that when I was with other
men I felt like a thug and murderer. It
seemed to me that we were all outlaws, out-
casts from society—and deservedly so. The
feeling I had was that I must either be
utterly depraved or get clear of the whole
cruel business. I stayed long enough to get
a small stake, but I’ve been through a night-
mare that I’ll never get over.

Seeking a little concrete information, I re-
marked: “Most trappers say that there
need be little suffering by the fur-bearers if
the trapper runs his line regularly.”

ner agreed. “Only a few of

the fur-bearers are as ‘wise’
to traps as the public at large believes.
Most of the poor creatures are and always
will be easy victims. From my experience,
I would say that trapping as ordinarily
practised is a hideous business which should
be prohibited.”

To S'often Porcupine Quills

EVA HENDERSON DAVEY

Many people are aware of the softening
effect of vinegar on ﬁsh bones. When a ﬁsh
bone sticks in the throat vinegar will some-
times make it so pliable as to be easily
removed.

The ’same thing is true of porcupine quills.
If your dog comes in contact with a porcu-
pin‘e it will be unnecessary to torture him
in removing the quills if you use vinegar.
The method is as follows:

Open the dog’s jaws and put in a stick
like a bit so he cannot close them. Pour
vinegar liberally over mouth and muzzle.
The quills literally seem to wilt, barbs and
all, and can be removed without the use of
pliers and with little pain to the dog.

“ Bright” and “Diamond”

See front cover

These fine oxen, “Bright,” weighing
2,200 pounds, and “Diamond,” 2,250, are
red Durhams and there is only two weeks’
difference in their ages- They are the» prop-
erty of the well-known Masonic Home at
Charlton, Mass. The superintendent, Mr.
R. M. Handy, is one of our good friends
and very fond of oxen. 7

 

 




 

‘—

'7

‘7" V'. 9::

W

 

l _.-, -n

l

 

 

 

Aug. 1934

“Sonny” of Orange Trail
CALVIN W. WALKER

OMETIMES I think it is strange the

way we speak of “Sonny.” There is a
kind of softness creeps into our voices when
we get to talking about him, and I wonder
sometimes if other people can feel as we do.
Folks will listen when we tell them about
Sonny, and ask one or two questions—-
though that isn’t always a test of real
interest. But a few home had that peculiar,
tender light-of-understanding in their eyes,
as if they could feel as we do. I’ve always
felt someone ought to have paid a little
tribute to him, and though I don’t really
feel qualiﬁed to do him justice, it looks as
if the memorial is up to me.

Sonny was just a ﬂedgling hen-hawk
when we found him on the Orange Trail
north of Cardigan Mountain. He made a
clumsy, ruﬂied attempt to escape, like a
mother pheasant feigning a broken wing—
but he was easily captured. Left in the
undergrowth during the coming night, there
would have been little likelihood of his see-
ing another day. Foxes, skunks and nu-
merous other predatory creatures of that
wild country would have made a simple
ending to his ostracism.

We carried him home tenderly, carefully
folding down his wings. I remember yet
how those wide-awake eyes had a ﬁerce
glare in them, as if Nature had made that
his earliest means of protection. Even his
cruel talons, unused as yet to grappling
with enemy or prey, foretold the day when
they would be an adequate means of defense.

We put him on the screened—in side piazza,
protected and yet not conﬁned. From that
day every one in the family took a special
interest in Sonny. I think if we had given
it a thought, we would have had a premoni-
tion that our new friend would only be with
us a short while. The call of his own wild
folk, once he could leave the piazza, would
lead him away. But we happily found he
was fond of liver, and kept him well nour-
ished. Almost blissfully, we watched him
gain in poise day by day. The wings that
had beaten so uselessly on the Orange Trail,
now began to “take hold.”

A discarded rocker from the shed pro-
vided Sonny’s ﬁrst perch. To our horror he
sometimes had such poor judgment that he
overshot the chair and landed against
the screen like a violently-thrown feather
duster. But this painful process was fortu-
nately not often repeated.

None of us can tell of the day we gath-
ered to see him return to the wild without
a sort of throaty feeling. It always seemed
to me like going to the steamer with an old
friend bound for retirement in a foreign
land. The day was beautifully warm, with
that almost constant rasping of the locusts.
Sonny was set upon the ground, while we
encircled him widely, eagerly awaiting his
decision. It was not long in coming. With-
out so much as a glance, he nodded his head,
squatted quickly, and was off through the
oaks like a veteran.

I know that I half said good-bye. It might
seem as if I were over-sentimental about
Sonny’s going. Anyway, 'the rest of the
family didn’t talk much that day after he
left.

It must have been close to ﬁve-thirty the
next morning. At least, there wasn’t a

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

great deal of daylight. Something was mak-
ing a considerable noise outside the house.
You’d think it was a ﬁre drill, the way
everyone reached the stairs in a line. Sure
enough, Sonny was back.

He dropped onto father’s outstretched,
dressing-gown covered arm for a wiggling
ﬁsh in his ﬁngers. I noticed those claws
bit into his arm—but he didn’t. Sonny took
to the blue again, when he had breakfasted,
and the ﬁre drill went in. Somehow, no one
went back to bed that morning.

It was that way for nearly two weeks.
Sonny came and went at his leisure. But
he made a bad call one day.

I don’t think he intended any harm. But
a hawk is a hawk to a farmer. Sonny
stopped on a neighbor’s barn and was look-
ing over the chickens. They shot him. It
was easy enough to do, I guess, for he had
learned to trust people. But the farmer
didn’t know that.

Some of the folks listen with shining
eyes when we tell about Sonny. But I don’t
get sentimental and tell them that I feel
he is soaring happily through some ultra-
mundane kingdom of cloudless blue.

, Traits of the Goldfinch

While the goldﬁnch goes south in winter
he comes back early in April, frequently re-
turning in ﬂocks of twenty-ﬁve or more. On
last April 15 I saw a ﬂock of possibly thirty
in the top of a huge elm tree, singing and
picking at its swelling shoots. The gold-
ﬁnch nests in low, dense bushes, thick weeds
and tall grasses, sometimes near human
habitation. It is fond of weed-seeds and is
partial to catnip, both to its seeds and
leaves. In fact, it prefers to nest near
where catnip abounds. Those who wish the
company of this beautiful bird should plant
plenty of catnip on their premises. It is
also fond of hopping around among the
roses and pecking away at the insects that
infest the rosebush. The goldﬁnch is not
noted for its singing ability but it makes
up for it in beauty. It is self-reliant, inde-
pendent, and will survive as it is one of
Nature’s ﬁttest. WILLIS MEHANNA

 

Page 1523

“ Byng” of Bowdoin

Brunswick, Maine
June 5, 1934
My dear D7". Rowley:

In the June issue of Our Dumb Animals
I was very much interested in the article
on “Kurt” of Lindenwood. May I call to
your attention the fact that (mother college
president, President Kenneth C. M. Sills, of
Bowdoin College, is a dear lover of dogs
and paid a wonderful tribute to his black
cocker spaniel, which I am quoting below.

“ ‘Byng,’ the black cocker spaniel who for
the many years has been so well known to
the members of the College, died shortly
before Christmas and has honored sepulture
in the garden of 85 Federal Street. For the
past decade he had been a constant attend—
ant at college functions, a frequent visitor
at class, and at examinations had often
added ‘the canine touch.” He had been pres-
ent at trustees’ meetings and had welcomed
many distinguished visitors both at 85 Fed-
eral Street and in the College ofﬁce. He had
helped his mistress and his master enter—
tain more than ﬁfteen hundred freshmen
and more than nine hundred seniors. He
knew the proprieties, too; he had the dis-
tinction of being the only dog in Brunswick
ever to attend a chapel service. He had all
the virtues of his breed, intelligence, gentle-
ness tempered by a proper pugnacity, loyalty
and affection. Though he reached, for a
dog, the great age of more than ﬁfteen
years, his passing to the happy hunting
ground made a very real blank in his house-
hold; and he will long be missed about the
College.”

May I add a personal word. I want to tell
you how much I appreciate the kind care
that has been given my Doberman pinscher,
“Hansi von Musenbach,” and my little Irish
terrier, “Tess,” at your hospital when they
have been left in your care on my western
trips. I shall hope to avail myself of other
opportunities in the future. The greatest
courtesy has been shown to me there when
I have called. Yours very sincerely,

(Mr-S.) CLARA D. HAYES

Secretary of the College

“BYNG,” LATE PET OF PRESIDENT SILLS OF BOWDOIN COLLEGE

 

 

 




 

 

 

Jan. 1934

Animals and Postage Stamps

JASPER B. SINC’LAIR

T may be interesting to nete how many

countries have honored members of the
animal kingdom on their postage stamps.
Birds, beasts and even ﬁsh have been widely
portrayed on these bits of vari-colored paper
that carry mail to the far corners of the
earth. '

The eagle and the lion predominate on
the postage stamps of the world, perhaps
because both are the national emblems of
'many countries; perhaps because the lion is
king of beasts and the eagle, lord of the air.

Abyssinia has honored, among other ani-
mals, the giraffe, rhinoceros, elephant and
ostrich. The elephant also appears on
stamps of the Congo, Liberia and Straits
Settlements. The giraffe is portrayed by
Nyasa, along with the zebra. Australia
has featured the wallaby; Labuan the croco-
dile and gorilla; Liberia the monkey; New-
foundland the seal and caribou; North Bor-
neo the gorilla and tapir; Norway the white
polar bear; the Straits Settlements feature
the tiger, while Obock and the Sudan are

among many African countries honoring the
camel.

Among the birds that have been given a
place on the world’s postage stamps are the-
cockatoo of Australia, the parrot of Guate—
mala, the dove of Japan and the black swan
of Western Australia.

In almost every instance these members
of the animal kingdom are portrayed alone.
There are many cases of horses appearing
with their riders, and of other animals in
large groups or herds. For example, the
United States one dollar stamp of the
Trans-Mississippi issue portrays a herd of
western cattle in a storm, while the buffalo
has also been featured on stamps of our
own country.

These are but a few of the many animals
that adorn the postage stamps of the world,
but they are enough to prove that those in
authority have not forgotten our friends of
the animal kingdom.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Page 5

Wounded Animals

SILVERQUILL

EEP in the protoplasm of every ani-
mal’s nature is the old, old creed of
the Domination of Man. No one of the
thousand sounds of the wilderness fright-
ens the creatures which roam through it;
but if the voice of a human drifts up the
canon, or wakes the aisles of the forest,
every ear becomes tense and every eye
alert, while a shiver of apprehension runs
like a premonition of death from. one crea-
ture to another. Yet, if given the proper
setting, this same dread is transformed into
a beautiful and pathetic dependence upon
the one they feel innately to be their mas-
ter. Especially is this true of wounded
things.
There is a commanding majesty in the
way animals face death. I watched four

lordly bulls die in a crimson arena in

Mexico, and without a question they rose to
an intelligent contempt of their fate and
their tormentors, going out as noble Rom-
ans do. Gradually their fury seemed to
pass, and they appeared to contemplate the
swarming harpies about them, and the bel-
lowing infernalism of the galleries, with a
lofty disdain. The elk brought to bay turns
at some cliff’s base and spurns the leaping
gray leanness before him without a sound.
The stag, ﬂank-deep in lake or stream, goes
down without a moan. Only the little things
cry out, and but a few of them.

Nature has put in the tongues of animals
something that is marvelously medicinal,
and which effects amazing cures. A hunter
who removed the skin of a royal buck, in
the distant West, discovered that at some
time a bullet from a large-caliber gun had
entered the animal’s body near the right
hip bone, and, slithering through Vitals and
form, smashed out through the center of
the left shoulder. The damage this slug
did may be readily imagined; yet this deer,
acting as his own physician, not only lived,
but was heavy with tallow at the time he
became a victim to another riﬂe.

Upon one occasion on our stock ranch in

 

 

the Northwest a range cow drifted into the
corral with the domestic herd. She was wild
as a mountain hawk, and vicious as a pesti-
lence. Naturally she was unwelcome among
her sedate sisters of the pen, and was thrust
about in all directions with unceremonious
repudiation. At last, though endeavor-ing
to escape, a lunging horn inﬂicted a gaping
wound in her body. This was very soon in-
fected and in a noisome condition. The
thing tormented me, for it was hideous.
I wanted to help her but it was more than
dangerous to even try to approach her, yet
I felt something had to be done.

I ﬁnally decided to take the risk, and
securing a long, slender willow I dressed it,
and fastened upon its end a soft swab of
cloth. Dipping this in a proper preparation
I endeavored to get near enough to cleanse
the gash, but found this very risky and
difﬁcult. At last, by reaching over the form
of a tame animal, and slowly advancing the
rod toward her, I eventually touched the
wound. The instant I did so the animal
stopped as if metamorphosed suddenly into
a statue, seeming to understand in a ﬂash
that I wished to help her. Nor did she move
a ﬁber all the time I was trying to render
her aid. After that she would see me com-
ing and wait for the comfort she knew I

had for her. From the ﬁrst touch of kind-- '

ness her wildness was gone and we were
friends.

One day a strange dog appeared in that
locality. He was a huge beast, black as a
raven’s plume, with broad, powerful jaws,
short dangerous ears, and a mane which
seemed to be always lifted. This old ﬁght-
ing pariah lived alone in the wild, and
neither ranch dog nor wolf care-d to engage
him in battle. Riﬂes were emptied at him
for sport at long distance, but he seemed
bullet-proof. Naturally, he looked upon
man as his most deadly enemy, and set
down as a dangerous thing to face if he
were cornered.

Passing a carcass not far from the trail
one afternoon, I discovered this old outlaw
in the demon grip of two large traps, which
had been placed there for the taking of
pelts. The situation was not a very pleas-
ant one. Yet, no matter what the risk might
be, I could not leave the brave old lonely
suﬂ’erer to his fate.

I stood looking down at him for some
time where he crouched as if to spring, his
bloodshot eyes, full of a strange, question-
ing disillusionment, burning steadily into
mine. Not for a split instant did that sin-
ister glance waver or change. I can see it
now across the years, clearly as I did then,
with its hard distrust of men softened by
a pleading appeal for pity at my hands.

Daring everything, I moved slowly to-
ward him, telling him that I pitied him and
wanted to help him. He listened to me with-
out the movement of a muscle in his tor-
tured body; nor did the terrible eyes soften,
or show that they believed me. At last I

' was within close fang distance, and still the

creature did not cringe or make a sound. I
could not turn back now, so putting my feet
upon the springs of one of the traps I bore
them gently down with my weight. Then
stooping, with my hands almost touching
the broad, scarred head, I opened the ﬁend-




 

 

 

Entered as second-class matter, June 29, 1917, at the Post Oﬂﬁce at N
Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 11

Boston Ofﬁce, 180 Longwood Aven

u U. S.Trade Mark,Registe,.ed \

1 ANGELL‘N1868'AND FOR FORTy.ONE

The Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

The American Humane Education Society

The American Band of Mercy

I would not enter on my list of friends,
Though graced with polished manners and ﬁne sense,
Yet wanting sensibility, the man
Who needlessly sets foot upon a worm.
—COWPER

  

- GLORY To
GOD,
PEACE ON EARTH,
Kmonass, JUSTICE
AND MERCY 10'
Evznv anme
CREATURE.

    
 
  
 

  
 
    
   
 

y to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood, Massachusetts

orwood, Mass., under the Act of March 3, 1879
03, Act of October 3, 1917, authorized, July 13, 1919

ue, Boston, Mass.

 

Vol. 67

October, 1934- '

No. 10

 

Few more important subjects have we
ever brought before our readers than that
beginning on this page and entitled “An
International Appeal.” Copies of it will be
sent free to all who will circulate them.

The article above referred to will also
appear in pamphlet form and will be mailed
to all humane societies and humane publi-
cations in the maritime powers of the world.

In Peiping, China, we learn a committee
has been organized to consider how best to
establish an Animal Welfare Society with
some satisfactory Animal Refuge in that
city. This celebrated city has never had
anything of the kind and let us hope it
means better days for the countless animals
of that vast country.

The International Humane League
through Our Dumb Animals, gladly ac-
knowledges the cards received from those
who have pledged themselves to reduce
their meat consumption at least by 10 per
cent in the hope that public opinion will
ultimately lead to humaner methods in
slaughtering our food animals.

We are glad to learn from a pamphlet
on Military Instruction in Universities and
Colleges, issued by the U. S. Department
of the Interior, that this miliary training
is not compulsory in Harvard, Yale, Johns
Hopkins, or the University of Pennsylvania.
In these Universities students can take it
or not as they choose. We are surprised to
see it is compulsory at Cornell, the Massa-
chusetts State College and also at the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology.

Three million people, it is reported, can
now be counted oﬂicially as pledged to work
for better motion pictures and the elimina-
tion of those Whose inﬂuence is unquestion-
ably evil. Among the organizations co-
operating in this movement we are glad to
record our American Humane Education
Society, protesting, not only against the
demoralizing inﬂuence of many pictures
upon the young, but especially against the
ill-treatment of animals in the production
of ﬁlms.

An International Appeal

Will All Humane Publications and Societies in This and Other Lands
Unite to Stop a Great Cruelty and Waste of Life P
DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

tically world-wide can make effective

the international action necessary to
put an end to a practice that is destroying
annually millions of wild fowl. Few know
about this appalling evil. It is the pollution
of the coastal waters of the maritime na-
tions of the world. The rapidly increasing
number of vessels using oil for fuel has in
recent years greatly alarmed those who
have become familiar with the facts. In
1914 vessels using oil for propulsion repre-
sented a gross tonnage of only 1,721,747,
by 1925 this tonnage had mounted to 19,-
372,615 and since that date has steadily
increased. As the life of this oil has been
burned out the oily residue, heavy, thick,
these ships have dumped into the sea,
generally so near land that the fatal stuﬂ",
swept by wind and tide toward the coasts,
has so befouled the waters in which mil-
lions of wild birds, geese, ducks and other
sea birds have alighted that it has doomed
them to a pitiful fate. This thick oily resi-
due, it should be understood, does not sink
but always remains upon the surface, appar-
ently never disintegrating in the water.
The feathers of these birds become so gum-
med with this oil that they are unable to
take ﬂight again. The ﬁne down, we are
told, that insulates their bodies against cold
and water becomes matted and water-
soaked, the skin is exposed to the elements
and the birds die from cold and hunger or
perish from drowning.

Mr. Frederick C. Lincoln, member of
the United States Interdepartmental Com—
mittee on Oil Pollution, tells us that even
nine years ago the Shipping Board reported
that each year its estimate placed the tons
of oily substance discharged into non—
territorial waters near New York Bay,
from ballast water alone, at 5,500 tons. Of
this amount it was believed 17% was
carried ashore.

Now think of the following: A report
from Massachusetts is well called tragic.
It says: “The number of poor birds we found

© N LY an aroused public opinion prac-

down there covered with oil is perfectly
awful; coot (scoters), brant, old-squaws,
everything. The amount of oil varied from
a little on the breast to so much they could
not ﬂy but could only paddle about until
they starved. Several had plucked them—
selves almost clean (bare) trying to get rid
of the stuff.”

 

 

 

FOUND DEAD ON SHORE. SAND,
SHELLS AND PEBBLES GLUED TO
BODY

A Massachusetts ﬁsh and game warden,
reporting in March, 1930, says: “While I
was at Nantucket on duty during January
and February I counted hundreds of dead
coots (scoters), old-squaws, and eider ducks,

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

Nov. 1934
Baby Whale Far from Home

KADRA MAYSI

WHALE on a Carolina beach is just

as great a novelty as would be an
alligator fast asleep beneath a palm tree
upon Beacon Street.

Sullivan’s Island was named for Cap-
tain Florenzo O’Sullivan who, in 1674, was
there made keeper of a gun at the mouth of
“Lord Ashley’s River.” Frequently he had
occasion to ﬁre this gun in order to warn
sentries on Charles Town’s curtain wall
that pirate vessels, or other hostile craft,
were entering the harbor. Later on, Ed—
gar Allen Poe—while a soldier at historic
Fort Moultrie—wrote his “Gold Bug” and
laid the scene in myrtle thickets upon the
island. The myrtle trees, the slender palms,
the pale gold sea oats on white dunes, must
have seemed an alien land to the wounded
pygmy whale which washed ashore on the
broad front beach at mid-afternoon of
Tuesday, September 11, 1934.

Summer residents came in numbers to
see the unusual visitor. Their interest
changed to concern and distress when they
saw that the helpless animal was wounded
and suffering. A group of Charleston men,
examining it, found it scraped and bleed-
ing as though from collision with a boat or
battle with some other marine monster.
They tried, at once, to get it back into the
surf and to deeper water. As the “baby
Whale” measured about ﬁfteen feet in
length, and as they were attempting to
handle it gently, this was no easy task.
With help of a rope around its tail, they
ﬁnally got it aﬂoat. But, a short time af-
terward, the waves again cast it upon the
beach.

Three times during the afternoon, kind-

he-arted islanders restored their unusual
guest to its native element. Dusk fell . . .
deepened to darkness. Cottagers fell

asleep, hoping that the “baby whale” was at
sea and recovering from its injuries.

But the creature, evidently, had been
too seriously hurt to swim. During the
night, high tide brought it back again.
When morning came, it was found, quite
dead, upon the sand.

As soon as the news reached Charleston,
representatives of the Charleston Museum
of Natural History crossed to the island.
Laymen had called it a “baby whale”; but,
those more learned had reason to suspect
that it might be a full-grown pygmy sperm
whale. Unfortunately for them, it had just
been removed and buried. Latest reports
were to the effect that they were digging
it up to investigate.

But, whether a pgymy sperm whale or
merely the young of a larger species, the
lost and wounded creature found, far from
its home. true “human kindness” upon the
beaches of a distant and alien land!

“Now boys,” said the teacher, “tell me
the signs of the zodiac. You ﬁrst, Thomas.”

“Taurus, the Bull.”

“Right! Now, you, Harold another one.”

“Cancer, the Crab.”

“Right again. And now it’s your turn,
Albert.”

The boy looked puzzled, hesitated a mo-
ment, and then blurted out, “Mickey, the
Mouse.” —chcouver Province

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Page 1’71

Tawny Mountain Monarch

W. J.

HERE is one member of the cat fam-
ily who sometimes provides good food
for outdoor dwellers in the far West
in cases where necessity decrees that ani-
mals must be sacriﬁced to maintain human

 

THE PUMA

life. Of course that splendid North Amer-
ican animal, the puma, has several claims
to fame. But one of the oddest things
about him is this: he is practically the only
animal that lives on meat himself whose
ﬂesh is tasty and healthy for men to eat.
Everyone knows how dangerous a big
tomcat can be in a ﬁght, if thoroughly an—
gered. Of our familiar domestic animals,
the cat is easily the most powerful for his
size; he has the most destructive weapons
in claws and fangs of razor-like sharpness;
he is the most agile, the best climber, per-
fect in muscular control. If one multiplies
all these qualities by about twenty—for
the puma is that much bigger—one may
have some idea of how formidable an op-
ponent is that tawny mountain dweller.
At one time the puma was always pic-
tured in Wild West “thrillers” as a demon
of the highlands, looking for a chance to

BANKS

pounce upon unwary humans and destroy
them. But early settlers soon found that
North America’s biggest cat very seldom
attacked people. As a result he has come
to be regarded as lacking in courage, and
has sometimes been called “the most cow-
ardly of beasts.” But how unfair it is to
call the puma a coward because he is wise
enough to keep away from those strange
two—legged creatures who can deal out death
from afar.

In fact the puma, also commonly called
panther, cougar, mountain lion and a var-
iety of other names, has shown that he
is really a courageous ﬁghter. On various
occasions huge grizzly bears, many times
larger than the greatest of pumas, have
shown terrible scars on their bodies which
could only have been inﬂicted, by the moun-
tain lion. At least one combat between a
grizzly and a puma mother who believed
her cubs to be in danger, was witnessed to
the end. Locked in each other’s grip, the
two ﬁghters plunged over a cliff to instant
death. But the big bear’s terrible wounds
proved that he would have had little chance
of victory.

There are two tiny woodland dwellers,
however, who have nothing to fear from
these tawny mountain killers. One is the
skunk, whose powerful perfume is a perfect
defense. The other is prickly porcupine,
who carries death in his barbed quills. Oc-
casionally young lions are foolish enough
to be tempted by porky’s apparent help-
lessness, for his ﬂesh is very tasty. But
a nose and mouth ﬁlled with quills provide
a lesson which is never forgotten if, indeed,
it does not prove fatal to the hasty at—
tacker.

It is not quite true to say that mountain
lions never attack people without provoca-
tion, for a few well proved cases are on
record. Children, or adults in a weakened
condition, have usually been the victims,
and it is thought that the pumas have been
old or diseased animals, crazed with hun-
ger or pain. At any rate the lions have
been killed off in large areas not because
they are dangerous to man’s own person,
but because they threaten his livelihood.
Horses and cattle, on the western ranges,
fall easy prey to the puma, and in the
ranch lands he is one of the most hated of
enemies.

The puma’s splendid tail, long and bushy
with thick black tip, seems to be entirely
useless except to give its owner a more im-
pressive appearance, and provide a play-
thing for the cubs. Most animals with
large or powerful tails make good use of
them for warmth, climbing or some other
purpose. But though the most miserable
0f pumas has a ﬁner tail than the greatest
of tigers, it is more likely to get him into
trouble than to help him. Sometimes dogs
have been able to catch a treed puma by
the tail, and some dogs become quite skilful
in seizing the tail of a ﬂeeing puma to slow
him up, springing aside if he turns in wrath
upon them.

The puma’s cubs or kittens, usually two
in number but occasionally as many as ﬁve,

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS 113121934
Victory for Ohio Birds

{ ROBERT PRICE

i HIO no longer places a bounty on the recently on hawks and owls by the bureau
heads of hawks and owls. Up until the of scientiﬁc research in the divisions of
last session of the Ohio legislative as- conservation for the state of Ohio.

sembly, the General Code of Ohio provided a This bureau carefully examined the stom—

bounty of one dollar each for killing “the achs of 735 hawks and owls which were

chicken hawk, blue hawk, Cooper’s hawk, killed in 79 of Ohio’s 88 counties between
sharp-shinned hawk, and great horned owl.” October, 1931, and May, 1932. Of this num-

Thanks to a hard ﬁght by naturalists and ber only 20 birds showed any signs of hav-

conservationists of the state this provision ing eaten poultry. Fourteen of these were

has now been repealed. Although a section red-tailed hawks, of whom eight had been
of the code still remains permitting the caught in traps baited with poultry. These
legal killing of these birds, together with 20 birds out of 735 represented only four

the crow, European starling, English spar- species out of a total representation of 15.

row, and blackbird, the abolition of the As for game birds eaten by these 735 hawks

bounty law will probably remove the chief and owls, only eight stomachs showed any
incentive for wholesale slaughter of hawks incriminating evidence and these repre-
and owls. sented only three species. On the other

The repeal of this law in Ohio is no hand, 434 of the stomachs examined con-
mean accomplishment. Even though they tained mice, other small mammals, and
have won only half their battle, conserva- insects.

tionists are justiﬁed in rejoicing, for the Figures gathered by this bureau on the

itate of Ohio has paid out as much as distribution of species in Ohio also gave an ,

135,000 in one year for bounties, this sum illuminating slant on this matter. It is esti- ‘ ” l _
, representing a loss of one bird for every mated that more than 50 per cent of Ohio GREAT HORNED OWL

 

 

dollar. No doubt this killing will now be hawks are sparrow haWkS, a specie-s whose '
i appreciably lessened. consumption of game birds amounts to less 3115:1113th $112 are {if enorirfnousi peonomlg
? There still remains, however, a very re- than one-ﬁfth of one per cent of its diet. severe] for any 0:; ave dsu ire. tong an
I, l grettable feature in the Ohio restrictive It eats 110 poultry whatever; whereas, mice Ohi yha dun esserglre 30 one y. '
l: ; bird law. In spite of strenuous objections and insects comprise at least 25 per cent 0f 0 S ma e no a e a vances 1n blrd

f ‘1 on the part of the state’s bird lovers, the its food. The next most common hawk in 11-fe (”.1188er atlon' Thlls S-tate was one Of the
a. ‘ law still contai th . h . . pioneers, or exampe, 1n plac1ng the bob-
I . ns ose confusmg terms, t e state, the marsh hawk, representing 18 white on the son b1 01 1. t Th ﬁ h h
'. “chicken hawk” and “blue hawk.” Both per cent of Ohio’s hawk population has a g— r 1.8 ' e g t .as
. . . . ’ . been hard. But the state 1s gradually bulld-
names are, of course, meaningless to people diet cons1st1ng of almost 55 per cent of mlce ing up its ro ram on th - t t’bl
who .really know birds, for no such separate and other small mammals and less than 5 evidence ofphafd f t 5 t1}? con roverlil e
, spec1es really exists. To the average gun- per cent of poultry and game. ’ .ac 8’ an ese more t an

, man, though, any large hawk is capable of The most destructive hawk in the state, zgyilillleng‘csrllssirv‘vﬂi probablyl 138mg Sﬁgblllfiy
, attacking domestic poultry and is therefore the Cooper’s hawk, represents only 6 per raduall bein '03b1?%sda' Ion W ICh 1s
I} ; a “chicken hawk.” Also, the majority of cent of these birds of prey, while the gos- g y g es a IS e '

:dult brpale haiks are bluish in tint and hawk, another of the more destructive '

.ave ue mar Ings and are consequently species, represents only one in a thousand. ’

. likely to be classiﬁed with the mythical The ﬁve species against which most com- Mount VCIHOI] S OldCSt

,1 ‘blue.hawks.” plaints are made represent only 8.7 per HOI‘SC

l Oth conservationists have fought hard to cent of the State’s hawk population. The .

; . have these ill-deﬁned terms removed from other 91.3 per cent, which are of immeasur- According to the Argus, Mount Vernon,

the code,.but legislators as well as the gen- able value to the farmers of the state, have N1 Y" that c1ty boasts a horse, .now in his
' eral pubhc still need some careful educating suffered very greatly indeed for the sins thirty-ﬁrst year, WhICh 1S Stﬂl 1n the pos-
‘ f 1n matters of ornithological classiﬁcations of the few. :esiionbf the man who was present ‘at his
l . :efore certaln bellefs and prejudices which Of the owls examined, the great horned 1r ’én t at city, July 27’ 1903' ‘B.Ob”
ave long been a part of American folk-lore owl, which is counted the worst offender of comes rom a distlngulshed and long-llved

can. be removed. In the meantime the con- the family, was found to have a diet of 60 ancestry, accordlng to George Horstmann,
‘ fusmg nomenclature will no doubt still pro- per cent mice and other small mammals, h1s proud owner, who drove .hlm for 22 years
5. i vide a loophole for much waste of valuable 7.5 per cent insects and 23 per cent poultry asha (iarl'image horse: BOb IS Stﬂl spry and
1 l, blrrldhhfe 1n.Oh10. . . and game birds. It represents 14.4 per cent W Endahen out of h1s stall the other day, he
e poss1ble extent of this waste 1s sug— of the state’s owl population. The smaller wa e 1s eyes at the s1ght .Of a strange-r

, gested strlklngly by some statistics gathered owls are almost without exception harmless $211,622: arﬁgnd on 1a chdaln hke da 113,113,: Of
, . even ay own an ro e on

. ‘ his back. He has bee-n retired now for
eight years, but Horstmann is too fond of
him even to send him to a farm where his

owner could not be sure of how he was
treated.

Fund for Retired Workers

We are receiving gifts to the American
Humane Education Society as a trust fund,
the interest to be used for the beneﬁt of
ﬁeld missionaries and others who have
spent their lives in promoting humane
education.

We will welcome your contribution to
this fund. Please make checks payable to
Treasurer, American Humane Education
Society, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, and
specify that the amount contributed is for
the Humane Education Trust Fund.

     

94¢. W... 3 " 'ﬁr'

l . YOUNG RED-SHOULDERED HAWKS

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 52

Easter Anno Dom1n1
BETH CHURCH

Today is Easter Sunday,
The resurrection anniversary
Of our compassionate Lord,
Who taught us here on earth
That not a single sparrow falls
Unnoticed to the ground.

We wore our gay new Easter clothes to
church, .

And lifted up our reverent eyes and voices
In the splendor of those Paschal services
That celebrate the triumph over death

Of our compassionate Lord,
Whose festival we had commemorated
With customary massacre of innocents,
Thousands of ﬂuﬁy yellow birdlings,
Timy cheeping, waddling baby creatures—

Funny little webfeet,

Pathetic little claws,

All stiﬁE and cold——
Slaughtered for a whim of pagan fantasy,
Butchered to make an Easter holiday.

Or worse, far worse, placed living
In the hurting hands of unthinking babes
for toys.
Toys!
To be dropped and stepped on, broken, cast
aside,
Mauled in a living death, forgotten, starved!
Little white bunnies,
Timid quivering furry mites, .
So soft and helpless, mute imploring faces,
Given for toys, to be worried till they died!

And so to bed,
Having celebrated
By-cruelty and death
The Resurrection and the Life
Of our compassionate Lord.

Are the Pictures Faked?

Referring to certain pictures published in
a Boston Sunday paper, which were said to
have been taken in Africa while ﬁlming a
picture, Betty Hone, assistant secretary, In-
ternational Wild Life Protection, Ameri-
can Committee, writes us from the Museum
of Comparative Zoology, Cambridge, Mass.,
as follows :— .

“I enclose a clipping regarding the mov1e
about which I was talking to you on the
telephone this afternoon. Although we
understand that the ﬁlm had no pretence of
being authentic, we feel that it is a great
pity from an educational standpoint to feed
the public such ‘unnatural natural history’
and to play up subjects which involve
cruelty to animals. I doubt if a python ever
strangles an adult water buffalo or that
crabs kill monkeys, and to have it depicted
in such scenes is disgusting to anyone inter-
ested in natural history or in animal life.
If such ﬁlms are not stopped there is no
limit to the unnatural situations which the
fertile mind of a ﬁlm producer could invent
to appeal to the sadistic side of humanity.”

 

JOIN THE JACK LONDON CLUB

The vicious and cruel exploitation of

animals can be boycotted from the public
stage.

Send your name for enrolment to Our

 

 

ELM) Animals.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Apr. 1931;

What I Know About Performing Animals

NAOMI JACOB

EDITOR’S NOTE z—Miss Naomi Jacob is a distin-
guished English novelist who has touched life at
many points. Beginning her career as teacher In
the schools of her native county, Yorkshire, she has
included in her crowded years experience as secretary
to a music-hall artist, suffrage worker, active member
of the Labor party, actress, and playwright. That
her sympathy extends to our sub-human brethren 1s
shown by the pity, and indignation with which she
tells of the cruelty that she knows to be inseparable
from performing animal acts.

WAS fortunate to have for a mother one
who tolerated everything except cruelty
and bad literature, and as a natural
consequence animals loomed large in our
lives as children. I can remember when I
was very small asking if I might be taken

 

to a circus, where there were to be perform-
ing animals, and I can still hear, down the
years, my mother’s indignant voice.
“Performing animals! Creatures put into
the world by Almighty God, to be happy and
content, to enjoy the sunshine; trapped by
cruel men and trained to earn a living for
them! No, never! Anywhere else you like
—but to watch animals tortured, never!”

It is so typical of my mother that instead
she took me to see Henry Irving and Ellen
Terry in “Madame Sans-Gene.”

It was not for many years that I actually
came in contact with trained animals. It
was at a London music hall and I was be-
hind the scenes, in more ways than one.
There were a troup of performing dogs on
the bill, and I stood near where they were
chained ready to make their appearance,
and tried to talk to them. They were very
shy, inclined to shiver when I held out my
hand, and as they were mongrel terriers——
the most friendly dogs on earth—this made
me wonder. I didn’t wonder any longer,
when the “trainer” walked up, and said,
“Leave them dogs alone, Miss, if you please,
I don’t let no one have nothink to do with
them barrin’ me.”

And if my old friend Fred Russell, who
used to live in Manchester, (U. S. A.) and

who was as clean and ﬁne a performer as
you could ever want to see, reads this, he
may remember the incident. He strolled
past, and said, “It’s a good thing those dogs
can’t talk!” The “trainer” swung round and
demanded, “Whatcher mean?” Fred said,
“They might tell this lady something you’d
not care for her to hear.” ‘

I talked to Fred and his wife that night
and heard a lot of things, and after—well,
I kept my eyes open; well open. I remember
a troup of little bears. Pretty little things,
not unlike those Teddy bears that children
love. There were ten of them and a big
dog. Now I have it on pretty
good authority that dogs hate
and loathe to be near bears, and
this one spent his days and
nights with them. They did
“tricks,” these bears, and every-
one said how pretty and how
happy they looked. I thought
so, too. I used to go down to the
theatre every morning, with a
great friend and a star per-
former, and take bits of bis-
cuit, bits of bread smeared with
treacle, and hand them to these
bears. Then, one morning when
my friend patted one of them on
his ﬂuffy little hindquarters, he
turned and snarled at her. She
didn’t know what fear was, but
she did know animals and in-
stead of running away she pat-
ted the little chap and got him
to let her turn up his soft buff-
colored fur and have a look at
him. His rump was punctured
all over with nail thrusts! That
was why he climbed the ladders
so nicely when prodded with
“just a little simple stick.” The
stick had a good two-inch ﬁne
French nail inserted.

The rest of the story doesn’t matte-r, ex-
cept that those bears appeared once, and
only once, more. My friend, a timid and
sensitive woman, faced the German man
and woman who were making their living
out of the poor little “Teddies.” She threat—
ened them with legal proceedings, and ﬁ-
nally she offered them a check for the whole
troup of bears. They begged, they wept, they
blustered, but she won, and the bears were
sent off to a well-kept zoo where they were
cared for and tended decently. That was
twenty-two years ago, and the last one died
a year ago.

Oh, I’ll admit that a zoo isn’t heave-n,
but it’s better than “performing” twice
nightly.

That’s a mild case! Literally that’s noth-
ing! And even when one looks at the worst
cases of physical cruelty, I don’t know that
they matter a bit more than the mental
cruelty. I have watched little dogs shiver
with shame because they had to be dressed
in hats and coats and sent on to push per-
ambulators on the stage. I have seen cats
cower and shake because they had to go on
and ﬁre off toy cannons. I have seen horses
whitewashed all over to the detriment of

l.)

(Continued on page 64)




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 7 6

Slaughter of Oregon Wild
Horses
JOHN C. ABBETT

UMANITARIANS at home and abroad
continue to shudder at the wholesale
slaughter of Oregon’s Wild horses.

These noble animals, many of them of the
same blood, bone and sinew that is found
in our Army and riding academy horses,
are being relentlessly hunted down by cow
“punchers,” loaded 26 to the box-car, and
shipped to Portland where they are slaugh-
tered and made into dog food. Eventually
the wild horse of Oregon may be an extinct
species.

The most inhumane methods of herding
these “fuzz tails” are being used, consisting
of running them in with partly broken
horses, the use of starvation in connection
with traps, relay pursuit and worst of all,
stampeding by low-ﬂying planes.

These horses are by no means the good-
for-nothing scrub type that we are 'led to
believe are being rounded up as useless. On
the other hand, a large proportion of them
are ﬁne upstanding saddle types, mostly
chestnuts, bays, blacks and browns and of
good size and conformation.

The writer has seen herds of hundreds
in a group cantering in almost a military
formation across the vast open areas of
eastern Oregon where a rancher’s nearest
neighbor might be 50 miles distant, the herd
led by a beautiful stallion who is king of all
he surveys by right of conquest with sharp
teeth and ﬂying heels.

It is an unnerving experience, to say the
least, to have a wild stallion come at you on
his hind feet in a corral, (out here they say
“kuh-rell”) ears laid back, squealing and
striking out viciously with his front hooves!
The best of the broncho “busters” get a bit
of a thrill out of that experience.

Strange to say, when broken, these wild
horses make marvelous saddle animals. To
be sure they jump around the ﬁrst thing in
the morning, as no self-respecting cowboy
or girl would ride a horse that wouldn’t
want to put on a show, or at least “crow
hop” around a little bit.

These wild horses are exceedingly canny.
A life spent where they have to battle con-
stantly to get food and to protect themselves
and their colts against raids by wolves,
cougars, coyotes, (pronounced “ki-oty” in
the West) and the other wild beasts of
prey; exposed as they are to a desert cli-
mate of scorching hot summer days and the
freezing blasts of winter, makes them well
able to take care of themselves in any
emergency.

A “bronc,” or wild horse, brings ﬁve dol-
lars and a “buster” will be glad to break
him for another ﬁve. Horses broken by
Oregon cowboys are taught somewhat dif-
ferently than by our best riding masters.
For example, a cow horse is not taught to
stand while being mounted. Instead, the
moment the left foot is in the stirrup the
horse is gone, his motion throwing the rider
neatly into the saddle. These “broncs” are
guided by neck reining or in many instances
by mere balance. A severe bit is carried in
the horse’s mouth but the animal never feels
It as the cowboy’s hand is the very lightest
on therein. Cow horse gaits consist of a
510W, Jogging trot, a smooth, easy canter

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

“DIAMOND” THE MUSTANG OWNED
BY MR. ABBETT

and the “run” which in Western parlance
is a fast, extended ga110p.

Oregon “broncs” are sure-footed and
hardy and can pick their way at the dead
run over broken country with perfect safety.
It is a pleasure for the writer to drop the
reins and let his mustang, “Diamond,” out
full speed over any kind of rough going, as
there’s no doubt but the scrappy little fellow
will see him safely through. ‘

The proud, ﬂeet-footed horses that are
being rounded up in Eastern Oregon are of
a noble heritage, being the direct descend-
ants of the fancy stock brought into this
country by Cortez and the Spanish con-
quistadores shortly after the discovery of
America by Columbus. In many instances
they show a perfect reversion to the pure
Arabian type. In fact the great Eastern
Oregon desert with its “bunch” grass is
said greatly to resemble the Sahara as a per-
fect environment for the production of
sturdy horses.

These are the horses that are being
rounded up, butchered and made into dog
food. And the unfortunate thing about it
is that humanitarians can do little about it.
The wild horse multiplies rapidly, and
cattle men claim they need the range for
their cattle to graze upon, so every year we
must read about the “last big round-up of
Oregon wild horses.”

A Broken Wing

SGT. WILLIAM MARTIN

UNSET found me fatigued after a

stroll of several miles, and I was indeed
grateful to ﬁnd a seat under the wide
spreading branches of a beautiful native
oak. Evening was approaching with a de-
lightful coolness in contrast to the heat of
the day, just ending.

Sitting in solitude, I was drinking in the
gifts of Nature around me, when suddenly
I heard a faint stirring sound on the ground
a few yards away. Turning, I located the
sound, but in moving my body I must have
warned whatever it was. After some few
minutes of stillness, however, I heard the
noise again, this time with the chirping of

May, 1931;

a bird in the tree under which I sat. Look-
ing up, I saw this little feathered creature
jumping from branch to branch in a man-
ner which plainly told that it was excited.
Soon others of its kind appeared, some of
which seemed to be preparing their nests
for the night, while others, like myself, were
curiously attracted by the occasional rust-
ling sound on the ground close by, and also,
perhaps, by the noisy little fellow that was,
by this time, quite excited in the tree. He
was becoming frantic in his manner and
soon ﬂew to the ground, lighting on a thick
turf of grass and weeds. Inserting his bill
vigorously beneath the grassy retreat, he
disclosed what proved to be another bird,
with a broken wing.

Coaxing his mate along the weedy path
until a small open space was found just
within a few yards from where I sat, he let
go of the wounded one, and before ﬂying
back to the tree, he seemed to look straight
at me, tilting, for a mere moment, his proud
little head to one side, as if seeming to say,
“Look, what some of your kind has done?
If you do not believe me, examine her wing
and you will ﬁnd imbedded there, a piece of
metal, shot from a double B riﬂe in the
hands of a very bad boy. "Please help her, if
you can. She is my mate and if she is lost
to me, all is lost.”

With painful eﬂ’ort the wounded bird was
now dragging herself along the ground. Her
frightened little eyes now saw me and she
made a desperate effort to ﬂy. Realizing
this was impossible, the little bird again
ducked under the weeds.

I walked over to where the helpless crea-
ture hid and without difﬁculty picked her
up and returned to my seat, holding her
gently but ﬁrmly. Looking into her beady
little eyes, I saw tears of sorrow and pain.
This moved me deeply, almost bringing
tears to my own eyes.

With my pocket knife I cut‘a thin piece
of wood for a splint, then with a narrow
strip of a clean handkerchief, I made a
bandage. If this crude piece of surgery
would not heal it would at least stop the
ﬂow of blood and maybe ease the pain.

I now climbed the tree and found a nest
in which there were several tiny eggs, and
here I placed the wounded bird. In climb-
ing down the tree I saw the other bird join
his mate on the nest, and deep down in my
heart I wished them a sweet good-night’s
rest.

About a week later I returned to see if
the injured bird and her mate were still
where I left them and if the wounded one
was still alive. To my great surprise, and
delight, I found the crude, ﬁrst-aid bandage
still intact, and—wonder of wonders—the
little creature was ﬂying about with food
for three lusty youngsters.

For some time I watched with much
pleasure. The sight ﬁlled me with joy. All
the surroundings seemed ﬁlled with mirth.
Reluctantly I left the scene, for it seemed to
me that these little feathered creatures were
grateful for that act of kindness from one
who loves everyone of the countless num-
bers of the feathered tribe which wing their

way over this earth, for the beneﬁt of the
human race.

Please remember the Massachusetts So-
ciety for the Prevention of Cruelty to Ani-
mals in your will.




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 100

practice of setting up the tails of horses
and urging opposition to it. We immediately
began correspondence with the ofﬁcials of
the Association of American Horse Shows
with regard to the subject. Articles ap-
peared in Our Dumb Animals, the matter
was brought before the national meetings
of the humane societies of the country. Agi-
tation was continued. Leaﬂets were pub—
lished and sent broadcast both by the
Massachusetts S. P. C. A. and the American
Humane Association. Last year we with-
drew our bill at the request of the Associa-
tion of American Horse Shows because they
thought the Association itself might stop
the practice. This they failed to do. Mean—
while, New York State obtained a law for-
bidding the practice.

This year we won ours. One by one other
states will secure similar legislation. Pub-
lic opinion will ﬁnally stop a practice not
only cruel and causing much needless suffer-
ing, but a practice which, to the vast ma—
jority of horse-lovers, disﬁgures the horse
and robs him of no small part of his natural
attractiveness.

How Elephants Die

T has often been said that no white man

in South Africa ever sees a dead ele-
phant, that is to say, an elephant that has
died a natural death. How then does an ele—
phant die?

A traveler answers the question in a most
romantic way. He tells that when an Afri-
can elephant feels the pains of old age
stealing across the vast energy of which he
has been master for so- many years, he
moves away from the herd, sniffs the air,
and then with solitary determination, makes
his way slowly and sorrowfully to the
appointed place of death. The journey be-
fore him may take a month or a year, “but
in majestic solitude the way is plodded, un-
erringly the path is trod.” Instinct guides
him to the great cemetery.
Somewhere near Lake
Nyanza, it is believed,
lies the amazing grave-
yard, the goal of the dy—
ing elephant. It is a vast
pit ﬁlled with blackness
into which for thousands
of years dying elephants
have cast themselves with
the last remnants of their
ebbing strength.

Arriving at the pit, we
are told, the monarch of
the African forest raises
his trunk high in the air,
snorts deﬁantly, and then
hurls himself over the
edge. His last death cry,
says the traveler, vibrates
through the great forest,
and lions hearing that
mighty cry, slink away in-
to greater darkness, while
the smaller animals crouch
as if in reverence of the
death of something great
and splendid. If this story
from Lagos, Nigeria, is
true, it is at once a telling
example of the wonders of
instinct, and a most touch-
lng instance of the pathos
of death. P. B. P.

l

 

: Star

9.”. Csmpanv-

performers in
.Crovérn Cage of Fury. This
lien was junglehom.
“in the free: “live power" Show

sponsored by the. Stan. d a r d

OUR DUMB ANIJVIALS

 

J ulg, 1931;

Exploiting Animals at A Century of Progress

of money makers at the Chicago Fair

this summer. Again we call atten-
tion to a leading oil company’s attempt to
advertise its business by putting on a costly
show of so-called trained wild animal acts——
captured, caged and cowed they might say
rather than trained.

Had the ofﬁcers of this Standard Oil Com-
pany been sufﬁciently interested in the wel-
fare of animals to have known the strength
of the humane movement in this country
and abroad they would never have dreamed
of aﬁronting and antagonizing millions of
people by sponsoring this widely advertised
show. The demoralizing effect, particularly
upon the young, of witnessing such an eX-
hibition of wild animals dragged from their
native haunts and subjected to involuntary
obedience by the methods used, evidently
never occurred to those who imagined
it would bring trade to the organization.
We must at least be grateful it was not a
bull-ﬁght they undertook to stage. Four
times daily, from 2.45 till 8.30 P.M., must
these wild things go through their stunts
for the amusement of the populace. Is it
progress or a. movement back to the day
when pagan Rome delighted in the brutal
contests of the arena?

But the managers of the Chicago Fair,
not satisﬁed with this oil company’s proﬁt
making scheme, have arranged with a cer-
tain Frank Buck who is to be on hand, he
says, with nearly 1,000 wild animals.
“There’ll be. tiger traps and leopard traps
and nets, and we’ll have more than 500
monkeys.” Shipments of these poor crea-

M ANY a wild animal will be the victim

tures, helpless against the cunning and
power of man, the Chicago Daily News
says are arriving from every part. of the
globe.

It was a Christian martyr who dealt the

   

  

Find.

It is

death blow to many a brutal exhibit of in-
humanity in ancient Rome. Perhaps these
unhappy beasts at the Chicago Fair will,
by their suffering and virtual martyrdom,
arouse sufﬁcient protest from humane people
throughout the land to hasten the day when
such treatment of animals will be recog-
nized, not as evidences of progress but re-
lapses toward barbarous days of old.

Terror for Jungle Animals

PERCY B. PRIOR

D ARKNESS descends on the jungle
without warning, for in Africa there
is no twilight. Immediately the dwellers of
the wild are on the alert, awakened by
hunger and fear.

Hunger possesses the lords of the jungle,
the mighty lion, the cunning leopard. Fear
possesses their prey, the smaller animals,
though these are ﬂeet of foot and clever, too.

Fire!

Somewhere in the scrub a lion is stalk-
ing a gazelle, while crouched in the bough
of a tree a leopard watches a water-hole
just below.

Suddenly there runs through the jungle a
new note of terror—a fear which seizes
both the strong and the weak together.

The wind is hot. A red glow lights up
the western horizon, and from afar comes
the dull, dreaded roar of a seething inferno.
The demon of ﬁre is raging.

Fear of the night is nothing to that
which now lays hold of every living thing.
The one idea of all is escape, and in a few
seconds the jungle becomes the scene of a
wild, uncontrollable stampede. See how
they run! Shoulder to shoulder, giraffes,
elephants, leopards, wart hogs, gazelles,
rhinos, zebras, and hundreds of others—all
feuds forgotten. Even the king of beasts,
the lion, must submit to the indignity of
headlong ﬂight. Reluctantly, perhaps, he
runs beside the others, but, though fam-
ished, nothing will induce him to break the
unsigned armistice.

For a day and a night the beasts are on

the run. Meanwhile the mighty ﬁre, caused
by no more than the friction of two dry
grasses in the wind, sweeps all before it,
sparing nothing and leaping streams, until
ﬁnally it dies out on the bank of a great
river.
. The snakes come off best. They retire
1nto deep holes in the ground, while the
locusts rise in their hordes into the sky and
blot out the sun.

And there is tragedy. The vultures do
not hang above the scene of destruction for
nothing. Some animals fall out through
sheer weariness, others are overtaken by
the ﬁre. The youngsters, too, are helpless,
their frantic parents sometimes perishing
by their sides. The ants pouring out of their
hills are extinguished in one breath.

In Canada airplanes watch for forest
ﬁres, and tractors and rangers are engaged
to ﬁght them; in Australia bushmen pro-
tect their holdings with ﬁre-breaks—clear-
ings of burnt or barren ground; but in the
African jungle the ﬁerce ﬁre rages at will.

There’s nothing so kingly as kindness,
And nothing so royal as truth!
ALICE CARY

 




 

 

Page 6

ish jaws and lifted out the bruised and
mangled leg. And still the Wild dog did
not make a sound. In the same way I re-
moved the other foot, and the old, unloved,
unwanted outcast limped away.

The entire conduct of this animal showed
that he did not believe I had decency enough
to help him, and that I would probably add
to his pain, but that if I did not he was
doomed; and when he discovered that I
wished to really be his friend his desper—
ate nature softened into a gentle depend-
ence.

In keeping with this was the case of a
half wild horse from the mesas, whose hind
foot had been fearfully burned by the fric-
tion of a grass rope. It was in a lamentable
condition, a thing of keenest agony, very
much infected, and which could not be put
to the ground. Normally this creature
would have ﬂed away at the approach of
man, but it was wounded, and so it felt its
need of me.

After an hour of patient maneuvering I
put my hand upon the body of this afﬂicted
horse. The-n moving slowly back over the
quivering hips I went down the swollen
leg to the gash. Finally I lifted the! lacer-
ated fetlock and began to cleanse the fester-
ing scar; and, though it must have been ex-
ceedingly painful, the tortured creature en-
dured it grate-fully, showing in many ways
that my intentions were clearly understood.

Yet, if one had done this sans the wound
he would have instantly received the slash-
ing lightning of that same leg to his al-
most certain undoing. Ah! How much
better we would understand animals, and
how different they would be to us did we
only treat them kindly. ‘

Courage of the Brown Thrush
WILLIS MEHANNA

ITH the possible exception of the

shrike, or butcher bird, there is
probably no small bird more capable of tak-
ing care of himself than the brown thrush.
It takes larger animals than mice or chip-
munks to scare him. I have seen the thrush
chase a chipmunk to its burrow which it
was glad to ﬁnd.

The thrush is cautious in regard to nest-
ing-places. It usually builds its nest in
the densest of hedges where its enemies
have great difﬁculty in getting to it. Worms
from the plowed ground, millers, butterﬂies
and other pests are food for the thrush
which comes north early and stays late.

He adapts himself readily to changing
conditions, but for him and some other birds
of his class the farmer should provide hedge
fences, honey locust trees, and other shrub-
bery with dense impenetrable boughs.

 

.OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Jan. 1934

Cows Aren’t So Dumb

ROBERT M. HYATT

S dumb as a cow!” Haven’t you used
Athis much-heard remark yourself? But

the trite simile is all wrong. This, then,
is in defense of “Bossy,” who lays claim to
more sense than she is credited with. It is
not the “tail” of one cow, but a collection
of well-known (at least among old cowmen)
traits and instincts of the cows of the open
range—not the modern sheltered and scien—
tiﬁcally tended kind who, for all I know,
may well be dumb, not having to shift for
themselves.

Range cattle have a deep sensibility re-
garding their maternal obligations. They
never leave their calves alone while graz-
ing or watering. It is not an uncommon
sight to see six or seven young calves
around a single cow. The next day, at

'about the same place, you may see the same

calves, but another cow standing guard.
Clubbing together in this way, the mothers
can trek several miles after water without
leaving their offspring unprotected.

During- branding season sometimes a
couple of thousand cows and calves are
rounded up and milled around for a day or
two while the branding is being done. Nat-
urally, cows and their calves become sep-
arated from each other. But as soon as they
are set at liberty, both the cows and calves
"high-tail it back to the spot where they
saw each other last. Is this instinct or
sense?

Sheep and goats will graze‘a pasturage
clean, but not so cows. They will eat the
leaves and certain bushes, weeds and grass,
but they never eat anything down to where
it is killed. They protect their grazing fur-
ther by eating only certain kinds of vege-
tables at certain seasons of the year—the
season when that particular vegetation fur-
nishes the most nourishment and does the
least harm to the plant.

In grazing steep, hilly country, cows lay
it out in trails that would do credit to an
engineer. Grazing trails seldom have more
than a six per cent grade, and are laid out
so there isn’t a sprig of grass on the whole
hillside that cannot be reached from a trail.

In the spring, range cows graze back
from permanent water, drinking out of
pools and puddles of surface water, saving
the grass near the year around water till
later on when the surface water is dried up.

Cows are even psychic! I’ll prove it.
You will see one cow absolutely foolish
about her calf, and another one take no
particular interest in hers. Nine times out
of ten, the calf that receives all the atten-
tion is sold for veal or dies on the range.

In the Southwest a man was considered
a newcomer or a fool if he- prophesied on
the weather, but if he knew cows, he could
foretell a storm and never miss. At a cer-
tain time every day, or every other day,
depending on the distance she has to go, a
cow will start for water. But if it is going
to rain within twenty-four hours, she won’t
go to the creek if she has far to go. 'When
it is going to be a hard winter, a range
cow spends little time in lying in the shade
during summer; she’s busy putting on extra
fat for the lean days when snow covers the
ground. .

A cow can always tell when she is com-
ing to the end of her span. Cows give little
trouble when being driven to new pasturage,
but just head them for the slaughter-house!
There will be everything from stampedes
on down. They know what’s coming. I
know a rancher in New Mexico who decided
to transfer about four hundred head a dis-
tance of ninety miles. Not caring to drive
them, he headed them for the railroad load-
ing pens. Everything went ﬁne, the cows
marching into the cars with apparent satis-
faction. Two months later, they were ready
for market. The car loading process was
again attempted. But this time it was an
entirely different story. For ﬁve hours,
every hand was kept busy trying to get
those stampeding creatures into the cars.
The-y ran and jumped and bellowed and
crashed the fences. There was something
in the air which they didn’t like—they were
on the way to the slaughter-house!

If you still think you are justiﬁed in us-
ing the incorrect saying, “as dumb as a
cow!” at least direct it towards something
a little more intelligent than many people.
This will ‘make your comparison more re-
liable. Cows may be dumb about such mat-
ters as mathematics and technocracy; but
they know a few things that continue to
amaze their all-wise owners!

EDITOR’S NOTE: The writer of this interesting article
vouches for its statements as based upon experience.

Interior Decorations

Skins on the ﬂooring,
Horns on the wall
With the six-foot tarpon
That you caught last fall;
But a lithe, live kitten
By the broad hearthside
Is a finer decoration
Than a dead bear’s hide.
ARTHUR GUITERMAN in Saturday Even-
ing Post

 

EVENING MILKING TIME AT LUTHERAN ORPHANS’ HOME, ZELIENOPLE, PA.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 12!;

Bob White

CLARENCE MANSFIELD LINDSAY

When golden days are on the wane,
And crisp leaves strew the winding lane;
I hear your cheerful call again,
Bob White!
It’s such a friendly, buoyant note
That issues from your feathered throat;

Now seeming near—and now remote :—
Bob White!

Though skies be gray and winter near;
Amid the gloom one still may hear
From hidden ways your note of cheer:—
Bob White!
Fields may be brown and woodlands bare,
With hint of snow in frosty air,
But little do you seem to care—
Bob White!

When fled are robin, thrush and wren,

And chill ﬂakes fall on marsh and fen;

Still sounds your call from sheltered glen :—
Bob White!

I like your philosophic view!

Serene, though skies be bleak, or blue!

So, from your note I’ll take my cue—
Bob White!

The Amiable Woodchuck

ALAN DE'VOE

THERE is to me something profoundly
pleasing about a woodchuck. In all the
creatures of the ﬁeld there is no other that
has quite the same round-paunched pudgi-
ness, no other that seems to have quite that
corpulent tranquility of woodchucks. Wood-
chucks—for all that they are hunted relent-
lessly by all my farmer neighbors—preserve
an air of unrufﬂed placidity. It is as though
they have cultivated an inner inviolable
calm, as though their life among the clover-
blossoms and the somnolently buzzing
bumblebees had given them a perpetual
peaceful contentment which nothing less
than a natural cataclysm could dispel.

In that part of up-state New York where
I live it is impossible to walk a mile with-
out meeting woodchucks, and I derive an
endless delight from contact with these
furry ﬁeld-neighbors. They bob up from
behind boulders to stare at me as I pass, or
scurry behind the old stone walls at my
approach, only to pop out again in a mo-
ment, overcome by their insatiable wood-
chuckian curiosity. Occasionally I see them
scampering across broad stretches of barren
pasture, but never do they seem to be really
agitated, never do they have that quivering
nervousness of most wild creatures. They
are as like as not to come to a sudden halt
in the very middle of such a pasture and sit
imperturbably in full View, snifﬁng at the
buttercups and yarrow. Woodchucks are
the symbol of endless leisure and endless
amiability. It is as though they had man-
aged to extract from the old ﬁeld-roots
among which they tunnel their burrows,
from the smell of the grasses and clover-
blossoms and rain-wet meadows, some an-
cient earth-secret of perpetual calm, and
were thus immune to all the frets and
worries that harass their fellow-creatures.
I am extremely fond of woodchucks.

Do not abandon pets in vacation.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Aug. , 1931;

A Famous Insect Musician
MAUDE WOOD HENRY

N late July or early August, when the
H insect orchestra gives its daily afternoon

and evening concerts, you will hear, above
all of the tiny ﬁddlers and ﬁfers, the drum-
mers and tambourinists and zoboists, the
strident notes of the “lyreman” or cicada,
which, it is said, carry at least a mile».

The loudest of these little instrumental-
ists, the cicada, is also the most famous.
Down the centuries come stories of how the
early Greeks prized this insect, whose music
was likened to that of the harp. One anec-
dote tells of a heated contest between two
rival musicians, one of whom snapped a
string. His defeat, however, was turned to
triumph when a cicada promptly took its
place. These old Greeks kept cicadas in
cages for their pleasure, gave them for
presents, wore their images on jewelry, and,
when a favorite died, made a charming
epitaph for its tomb.

So, instead of stopping your ears when
the cicada smites them with his buzzing
crescendo this summer, think of how great
a musician he is, and consider that he
makes all the uproar on a “harp” attached
to his own person. The delicate apparatus
which furnishes the “lyreman’s” music
seems incapable of producing such volume,
and little enough like a harp, if you investi-
gate it.

Perhaps, while you are watching him, the
cicada’s musical career will be suddenly and
tragically ended. If a digger wasp comes
along and spies him in his tree-top, as is
often the case, he is quite certain to pounce
upon him and carry him off to his burrow.
Cicada meat is a favorite dish with young
diggers in the larva stage. It is a piteous
struggle which is made by the lyreman,
who, though much larger than his captor,
is no match for him. One cry of distress as
the rapier pierces his body and the musician
is paralyzed, never again to perform for
us on his queer little instrument.

The cicada of our northern states has
still another name, that of dog-day harvest-
ﬂy. He is supposed to be an annual species,
the larva living in the ground only nine or
ten months of the year. When he casts off
his swaddling clothes, after the manner of
cicadas, he is a grown-up, leaving behind
him for us to remember him by after the
summer concerts are over, the tight ﬁtting
garment that he wriggled out of en route to
the concert stage. Life being short he
makes the most of it, buzzing away at the
top of his bent for his lady’s ediﬁcation if
not our own.

In Japan, as well as in ancient Greece,
the cicada has long ranked high among
insect musicians. Imprisoned in the tiniest
of cages, made from bamboo or wire and
representing a house-boat, a lantern, a
pagoda or a box, the cicada leaves his tree-
top for the market-place. There he is fea-
tured, together with the cricket and the
grasshopper ﬁddlers, and a live trade is
carried on by their vendors. Many of the
city shops also deal in these “singing in-
sects” as the Japanese style the musicians.

Japanese children capture the cicadas in
tiny nets hung at the end of long poles and
keep these pets as American children do
their canaries. At the annual “Festival of
the Singing Insects,” though, the cage doors

 

A CICADA PLAYS HIS LYRE

are swung wide and the little prisoners are
given their freedom, or what remains of it
before they must die.

To an American a caged cicada, grass-
hopper or cricket seems rather absurd, but
the Japanese have ears attuned to insect
harmonies, and one may hear the delighted
buyer of a rare “singer” boasting of his
ﬁnd, or see, among the boxes and bundles
of a homeward-bound visitor, one of these
minute cages, the occupant gaily perform-
ing on his instrument as he is hurried along.

Societies’ Annuity Bonds

ANY men and women, lovers of ani—

mals, are getting both happiness and
material comfort from our two Societies’
Annuity Bonds. These bonds are absolutely
safe and yield a return according to one’s
age. They make their appeal ordinarily to
people over 40 years of age. Send the
coupon for a free folder which gives full
details. Fill in the coupon and mail it now.
The Massachusetts S. P. C. A. (or)
The American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Ave., Boston, Mass.

Without obligation to me, please send

me your folder which tells all about your
Annuity Bonds.

Name ..................................

Age

0
..................................

Address ................................
City ..................... State .........

Our readers are urged to clip from “Our
Dumb Animals” various articles and re-
quest their local editors to republish.
Copies so mutilated will be made good by
us upon application.

 

 




 

 

Jan. 1931;

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Friar Toad, the Garden’s Patron Saint

WALTER A. DYER

my garden, I noticed that my dog

“Cudjo,” a four-months-old pup, was
showing a marked interest in something
that appeared to be alive. I investigated
and found him playing somewhat timidly
with a toad. Now dogs seldom bite toads.
I believe the taste is disagreeable to them.
But Cudjo at that early age had paws like
a lion and I was afraid he might injure the
defenseless creature.

I called the dog away and induced the
toad to hide under the pea vines. I pres-
ently became interested in my work and a
little later discovered that Cudjo had re-
turned to his game. I hurried over and
found an apparently life-less toad lying on
his back, his eyes closed, his legs drawn up
to his body, and his sides showing no move-
ment of breathing. Well, the big paw had
doubtless done the trick. Cudjo was snifﬁng
interestedly at the creature and I called
him away once more.

When I returned to the spot no toad was
there, dead or alive. I found him presently
beside a lettuce leaf, his bright eyes watch-
ing for ﬂies, and when I touched him he
hopped off in a manner suggesting entire
soundness of limb. He had, been shamming
all the time—playing possum. I have since
learned that this is a common trick of the
toad, one of many ingratiating traits that
make him a more interesting creature than
he is commonly supposed to be.

The toad’s unlovely appearance, which is
one of his protections against enemies, has
given him an evil reputation among hu-
mans. Shakespeare spoke of him as “ugly
and venomous,” and he has been placed in
the same category as the snake. We know
that he is not in any way' poisonous and
that there is no foundation whatever for
the old superstition that he causes warts,
but those old notions die hard.

Shakespeare mentioned the ancient belief
that the toad, though ugly and venomous,
carried a jewel in his head. He does carry
a jewel, but not the sort that Shakespeare
meant. His jewel is his tongue. For the
toad is not only harmless, he is decidedly
beneﬁcial to mankind. As a horticultural
ally he has few equals even among the birds.
This gray monk of the garden, for all his
seeming asceticism, possesses an insatiable
appetite. His digestion acts rapidly and his
stomach is emptied and reﬁlled at least four
times a day.

In the course of this process he plays
havoc with the insect population. Here is
what the stomach of one toad was found to
contain: six cutworms, ﬁve myriapods or
thousand-legged worms, six sow bugs, nine
ants, one weevil, one ground beetle. Every
gardener will appreciate the value of a cut-
worm eater. Toads eat also tent cater-
pillars, May beetles, wire worms, grass-
h0ppers, crickets, slugs, snails, spiders, and
potato bugs. One toad’s stomach was found
to contain 55 army worms and another
showed a score of tent caterpillars, thus
proving his value to the orchardist, since no
bird, except the cuckoo and possibly the
oriole, will touch the destructive tent cater-
pillar and fall web-worm. As for that dan-
gerous pest, the common house ﬂy, one

ll AST summer, while I was working in

 

“GRAY'MONK OF THE GARDEN”

observer saw a toad snap up 36 of them in
ten minutes.

Well, if that observer actually saw 36 ﬂies
caught, his eyes are quicker than mine. I
have watched a toad catching ﬂies on a
doorstep. I have seen him hop along, wait
patiently for the ﬂy to alight, and then,
presto! no ﬂy was there. A toad’s long
tongue moves like lightning and no ﬂy can
escape it that gets within its reach.

Toads are batrachians belonging to the
genus Bufo and the family Bufonidwe. They
differ from frogs in certain habits and cer-
tain anatomical features, including the total
absence of teeth. They are terrestrial in
their habits rather than aquatic like most
of the frogs, but they take to the water
during the breeding season in the spring,
when the shrill trilling of the males mingles
with the piping of the hylas. The female-s
leave strings of eggs in the water and the
development from egg to tadpole and from
tadpole to toad is similar to that of the
frogs. In the winter they hibernate, dig—
ging into the mud or soft earth and allow-
ing themselves to be frozen in. I have dug
them up in the spring when starting my
garden work, and have seen them appar-
ently wake up from their long winter’s sleep,
blink in the unaccustomed light, stretch
their legs, and hop away in search of food
as if no Winter months had intervened. Dur-
ing the summer they usually lead solitary,
unsocial lives, but they often hibernate in
groups or families.

They avoid the hot sun when they can,
and if you wish to encourage them to live
in your garden, it would be well to provide
ﬂat stones or pieces of board for them to
crawl under during the hours of bright sun-
shine until the vegetation furnishes natural
covering.’ Your garden toads will soon be-
come accustomed to your presence and will
have no fear of you. In fact, they become
so tame that'you will need to watch out lest
you strike them with hoe or rake. They are
friendly creatures when they have the op-
portunity to be. Scratch them on the back
and see how they swell with pleasure.

One of the toad’s habits has proved to be
unfortunate for the race. Though one often
ﬁnds them active during the day, they are
ten times more so at night. They do not
require bright moonlight for their hunting,
but they do like light-colored surfaces free

Page ’7

from vegetation and the-y frequent our roads
in large numbers at night. In the glare of
headlights they have small chance of escap-
ing destruction .under the swift wheels of
automobiles. On all our country roads I ﬁnd
their ﬂattened bodies in the morning. I
don’t know what can be done about it, but
it saddens me, for Friar Toad is a faithful
friend of mine.

Animals Kindly Treated

JOHN H. JOLLIEF

HOUGH it is possible to ﬁnd consider-

able cruelty to both domestic and wild
animal life it is also possible and at the
same time highly gratifying to lovers of
animal nature to ﬁnd many instances where
a fair degree of. consideration is shown. If
we omit cases so commonly known as in the
affection given to pets and seek instances
where dumb animals might easily be neg-.
le'cted but are not, then we ﬁnd the bond of
sympathy drawn quite close as in the fol—
lowing illustrations:

Riders in Argentina put large leather
wings across their horse’s breasts and at
the sides parallel to the frontlegs as a pro-
tection against thorns and brush. In Pana-
ma wood ticks and other insects are so bad
that riders apply a mixture of vaseline, sul-
phur, and camphor lightly to the coats of
the animals, especially on the legs.

In the Burma teak forests, where ele-
phants are used as beasts of burden, the
heavy saddles are padded with several lay-
ers of astringent bark to prevent galling
the animals’ backs. Breast straps plaited
out of bark rope are well dressed with pigs’
fat imported from Chicago.

Among the Eskimos in Labrador good
dogs will cover a distance of from 70 to 100
miles in a day over the frozen sea. When
drivers start in the morning they ﬁnd that
the dogs’ feet will bleed unless they are
protected from the little icicles which are
formed. by the midday sun melting the fro-
zen surface. Each foot is shod with a bag
of sealskin, tied' around the ankle. Three
small holes are cut for the claws. It is
somewhat amusing to see a pup shod for
the ﬁrst time. He holds up his paws in the
air alternately but soon realizes the shoes
are to save his feet from being cut and
bruised on the frozen snow. So much does
he appreciate this that he will rarely eat
his own shoes even though he will invari-
ably eat any ordinary piece of skin.- . .

In the police force of our large Cities
horses serve a most useful purpose in help-
ing to manage the large crowds. Care is
taken while training the horses not to
frighten them unnecessarily or to break
their spirit. Kicking or striking a horse con-
stitutes ground for dismissal. When the
horses have passed their period of useful-
ness they are not sold but are turned out
to pasture as a ﬁtting reward for their
long service.

In a village in Long Island a famous art-
ist has installed a horse—stall where horses
pose while he paints their portraits. It is
the artist’s contention that horses should
receive the same consideration as men and
women. In his studio the horses may pose
in quiet and homelike comfort, just as hu-
man beings do. Consideration of others is
an admirable trait. It is much more so when
others includes the dumb animals as well.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page I48

killed by oil. In one day I counted 512 on
Eel Point.” '

In 1919 an oil tanker unloading at East
Providence, Rhode Island, broke the hose
but continued pumping oil for some time
before the break was discovered. The oil
covered the upper bay and as a result
State ’ofﬁcers gathered up and buried 494
bluebills that had ﬂoated ashore. A United
States deputy game warden reported in
1921 that in Narragansett Bay he gathered
and buried more than nine hundred oil-killed
ducks.

On January 10, 1930, the steamer Edward
Luckenback was wrecked on Block Island,
Rhode Island, and the oil released killed
literally thousands of birds from this island
and the adjacent shores of Long Island.
Seventeen species were listed as killed, the
result of this catastrophe.

If the above report from a very small
section of New England’s coast-line tells
such a story, what must be the record for
all the coastal waters of the Maritime
Nations?

What has been done up to the present to
put a stop to this sad story of destruction
of bird life? Much of which the vast ma-
jority of bird lovers know nothing. In
1924 Congress passed an act making it un-
lawful for any person to discharge oil by
any means whatsoever into or upon the
coastal or navigable waters of the United

 

.DEAD

States. This law has been most difﬁcult of
enforcement and has accomplished but
little. The guilty ship is far away by the
time the deed is done and so the evidence is
almost impossible to obtain.

But much more has been undertaken
though little has come of it up to the
present. As far back as June, 1926, a con-
ference on oil pollution of navigable
waters was held at Washington, D. C.,
at which twelve foreign powers were
represented. At that time, we learn
from the Department of Agriculture at
Washington, the draft of a convention
was adopted to prohibit the discharge
of oil or oily mixtures in coastal waters.
This convention was tentatively agreed
to by nine of the powers represented,
the three dissenting powers being J ap-
an, Italy and Germany. Accordingly,
the report says, the hoped for multiple
treaty failed. Since then there have
been conversations between the United
States and Great Britain.

What has been done in England to
overcome this direful evil? In 1931 Sir

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

ANOTHER VICTIM

Cooper Rawson, M. P., introduced a Bill into
the British Parliament to make compulsory
the use in oil—burning ships of machines for
separating oil from other liquids so that
no liquid discharged into the sea should con-
tain more than one part of oil in 100,000.

PICKED UP DEAD WITHIN A SHORT DISTANCE

Unfortunately, though this Bill was carried
unanimously through its ﬁrst and second
reading, it died a natural death owing to
the end of the last Government. Much was
done, however, in the way of a study of
mechanical separators, and investigations
were made, particularly along the coasts of
Northern Ireland and other shores, to learn

 

SLOWLY DYING

Oct. 1931;

the effects of this oil, not only on birds and
ﬁsh, but also on the food on which birds
and ﬁsh live.

At the annual meeting of the Royal S.
P. C. A., held last July, when the subject
was under discussion, a letter to Sir Cooper
was read from the Foreign ofﬁce stating
that “His Majesty’s Government has within
the last few days addressed communica-
tions to the Governments of all the princi-
pal Maritime Powers, informing them of
their intention to raise the question of Oil
Pollution at the League of Nations with the
least possible delay.”

This is the situation. The problem is an
international one. The assertion from
Washington, and from England as well, is
without question correct, that only an
aroused and vigorous public opinion, wide-
spread among lovers of wild fowl in each
of the countries of the great Maritime
Powers, will bring about deﬁnite action to
stop this cruelly destructive evil.—

We are, therefore, appealing to every
humane publication in this and other lands
to call the attention of their readers to
this subject and to urge them and every
reader who becomes acquainted with it to
spread the story in every possible way and
to write the government ofﬁcials of his
country urging action and international
action against the deadly pollution of
coastal waters by oil-burning ships.

     

S‘o 5

OF EACH OTHER

Apparently the remedy will be found by
compelling these ships to use such separa-
tors as will accomplish the end sought. No
law merely forbidding the discharge of oil
into the sea can be enforced. But an in-
ternational agreement whereby the oil-
burning ships of each of the Powers must
provide themselves with an effective sep-
arator could be enforced.

Copies of this article will be sent
without charge to any society, periodi-
cal or person who will join in the en-
deavor to bring relief to the myriads
of wild fowl and ﬁsh that now meet
death in and by the oil-polluted waters
of the Nations’ coasts.

These prints of dead sea-birds collect-
ed along Massachusetts and Long Island
beaches, show the effects of oil pollution.
When one considers that these pictures
were taken at widely separated points
along the coast and that the piles of
dead birds were collected within a radi-
us of a few rods, one gets an idea of
the enormous damage'to wild life which
is done from time to time by ﬂoating oil.




 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

Page 172 Nov. 1934

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

are born with their eyes closed just like
their smaller cousin, the domestic cat. They
are perhaps even more playful than ordin-
ary kittens, romping about for hours, play-
ing with their mother’s tail and keeping
that fond parent more than busy saving
them from the dangers that result from
their mischief. Unlike most cats who be-
come staid and digniﬁed with age, the puma
never loses this love of play and his kitten-
ish ways. Those which have been raised
in captivity and tamed never stop wanting
to play and be petted.

And that curiosity which is said to have
killed many a cat is far from lacking in
the mountain-dwelling members of the fe-
line family. They will follow a man for
hours at a safe distance, evidently just
for the purpose of seeing what he is about.
Nearly all close observers of the puma gain
the impression that he would like to make
friends with man if he dared. Perhaps he
rather envies his little tame relatives who
have gained the friendship and protection
of mankind, at the same time keeping more
freedom than any other domestic animal.

But because he wars upon cattle, as well
as deer and other game which man wants
for himself, the puma has seldom met with
anything but destruction when men have
come. His range has been greatly reduce-d,
his numbers decimated, and only in the pro—
tected areas of the national parks does he
ﬁnd sanctuary. In the wilder regions of
the Rockies there is plenty of room where
man could well afford to allow this splendid
big American cat to ﬂourish forever.

The New Calendar for 1935

T HE American Humane Education So-
ciety’s Calendar for 1935 is nearly
ready.

The picture is entitled, “Heir of All the
Ages,” and shows a boy with his faithful
dog by his side, sitting on a hillside looking
over the valley and up above where an
alrplane is sailing through the sky. The
color effects are up to the highest Os-
borne standard. If preferred, Calendars
will be supplied with a picture in black and
white of a mother and child feeding a cat.
BE SURE to state which picture is de-
Sll‘ed. Otherwise the colored one described
above will be sent.

The leaves of the pad, one for each
month, contain the usual valuable humane
hints on the care of animals and are es-
pecially adapted to use in Schools.

Price remains the same as in former
years: 20 cents per single copy, two for 35
cents; $1.80 per dozen, post-paid to any
address.

Special printing with Society’s name and
list of ofﬁcers, for immediate orders only.
100 @ $19; 200 @ $34; 300 @ $50; 500 @
$81; transportation extra.

The calendars will be mailed promptly
upon receipt of order which should be sent
early to avoid disappointment.

AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY,
180 Longwood Ave., Boston, Mass.

Steer bulldogging at fairs is not meeting
with the approval of the masses and it
would not be surprising to see it driven off
the ﬁeld of entertainment.

— Pueblo Indicator

Samaritans of the Sea
MARJORIE DENT CANDEE

Director of Publicity, Seamen’s Church

lives of women and children— seems

also to apply to dumb beasts, judging
by the many evidences of sacriﬁcial love
for animals shown by merchant seamen.
Nor is this affection limited to cats and dogs,
for even more unusual pets, including
mules, snakes, white mice, goldﬁnches, par-
rots, monkeys, canaries and a deer, come
in for their share of protection and atten-
tion. Seamen have been known to lose their

THE code of the sea—protection of the

clothes and personal belongings, to lose all -

their money, to risk and even sacriﬁce their
lives in order to rescue beloved pets dur-
ing shipwrecks, collisions and storms at
sea.

Some time ago when the Spanish liner
“Cristobal Colon” rammed the American-
Levant vessel “River Orontes,” Aurelia
Lopez, mess steward on the ill-fated Or-
ontes, lost every stitch of clothes he owned,
save those he wore. But he saved his pet
kitten, “Nora,” and her brother and sister.
When the call came to abandon ship, he
hastily threw his clothes into a suitcase
and placed Nora and her kinsmen in a pil-
low-slip which he tied securely to his belt.
As he was transferred to the lifeboat, in
his anxiety over his pets, his suitcase
slipped from his arm and fell into the
harbor. But his pets were safe.

During a recent storm a barge captain
was obliged to jump overboard with his
little Scotch terrier. Just before the barge
sank under him he had to choose between
saving his little dog and two hundred dol-
lars in currency which he had hidden away
under his mattress. Now jobless and pen-
niless, he walks the New York waterfront,
the little terrier close at his heels. Of such
stuff are sailormen made!

One of the most interesting incidents to
show a sailor’s love for animals is that of
Miguel, a Portuguese seaman, whose loyalty
to his mule, “Caroline,” deserves_commen-
dation. Caroline is a very special variety
of mule who does not kick, according to
Miguel. She and Miguel grew up together
on a little farm in Portugal. Caroline used
to “make the transportation” from the rail-
way station for Miguel’s father. Since
Miguel has been going to sea, however, Car-
oline has outgrown her usefulness. She
is nearing twenty summers and things
looked pretty black for her. Her appetite
did not diminish with her efficiency and
Miguel’s father wrote to his son saying
that Caroline must be dispatched to the
happy hunting grounds to save her board
bills. But they reckoned without Miguel
and his affection for the pal of his child-
hood. Although earning only $50 a month
as a wiper on a tanker, Miguel has been
sending foreign money orders averaging
$20 monthly to his aged parents, allowing
a few extra dollars to cover Caroline’s
meals of hay, corn, oats and bran. So long
as he works he will see to it that the old
mule does not starve.

The skipper of a lighthouse tender on the
Paciﬁc Coast recently risked his life to
rescue a deer. A boat was about to dock
when the skipper noticed a buck swimming

 

‘ SEAMEN ARE DEVOTED TO PETS

in the water among a jam of logs. The
poor creature was trying its best to get
clear of the timber, but it was caught be-
tween two large logs and every time the
deer moved these logs would roll and trap
it again. Without stopping to consider his
own safety the skipper jumped overboard,
extricated the frightened animal, and hauled
him aboard his tender. They were near a
town and fearing that dogs might catch
the deer, the skipper summoned the game
warden who loaded the buck aboard his
automobile and carried it well out into the
woods where it was released.

When the “Sud Americano” recently
made her maiden voyage to New York from
Kiel, every oﬂicer and member of the crew
arrived with a pleased and satisﬁed grin
on their weather-beaten countenances. In-
quiry proved that the ship’s mascot, “Olaf,”
had been rescued from a watery grave.
Olaf, an able-bodied sea—going cat, kept the
galley and holds free from rats and mice.
The Norwegian sailors loved him as did the
ship’s master, Captain Bjor Boettger. One
day Olaf ﬁnished up his morning rounds
and lay on the deck amidships, catnapping.
It was heavy weather, and all of a sudden
a giant wave drove over the bow, swamping
the deck. Olaf went down into the black
ﬂood, while the watch sounded the alarm,
“Man overboard!” There» is a tradition at
sea that a lost mascot means a lost mem-
ber of the crew shortly after. Even worse,
a lost mascot on a maiden voyage spells
constant disaster for the ship in the future.
So Captain Boettger ordered the ship put
about and called for volunteers. To a man,
the entire watch volunteered. In record
time a lifeboat was manned and Olaf’s fel-
low seamen pulled hard at the oars, turn-
ing the boat toward that small, dark object
bobbing up and down in the big waves. Soon
Olaf was lying on deck again, while two
hefty Norwegian sailors were pumping air
into the feline’s lungs and salt water out
to the rhythmic up and down movements
taught in ﬁrst-aid manuals.




 

 

Apr. 1934

u SpOI’t n
A.R.LEATHLEY

Bright morning and all Nature seems
a-tune,
Somewhere a robin-red-breast sweetly
sings,
No movement, save the creeping forms of
men,
Then suddenly, the whirring rush of
’ wings!
Jeweled bodies, gleaming in the golden sun,
Rise, pinion-spread, affrighted to the sky;
There comes the shattering roar of swift-
cocked gun,
And then upon sun-dappled grass there

lie
Those tumbled creatures of such beauteous
hue—
S'oft feathered forms that ne’er will rise
again ~

Into the free expanse of sunlit blue;
God’s handiwork destroyed—the sport of
men!

_ Zoo Wolf

ELMA MARLATT DEAN

Pat, pat, pat . . . pat, pat, plat . . .

Up to this end and down to that . . .

Don’t you ever tire? Don’t you ever rest?

What name has the driver within your
breast?

Is it hope or hate that ﬂares in your eye?

Hope to escape before you die

0r hate for the humans who put the bars

Between wild hearts and the challenging
stars?

Pat, pat, pat . pat, pat, pat . . .

Up to this end and down to that . . .

Let the modern Romans come and see

A wild thing caged . . . It is not for me.

Death in the North’Woods

EDWIN CARLILE LITSEY

The trap snapped shut with a vicious click
Where it lay near a mossy stone;

Its steel teeth bit through skin and thew
And dented deep the bone.

The white for threshed the drifted snow
And panted and tugged in vain;

For it was held in the jaws of death
At the end of a strong-linked chain.

Both day and night it felt the pangs
0 f hunger, thirst and cold.

The hunter had gone to town for food;
As traps that caught would hold.

So the white for bled and starved and froze
At the end of the strong-linked chain,
Through hours of silent agony,
0f ripping, rending pain.

Through endless days and age-long nights
It fought till its strength was gone;
Then ﬁnally there came release:
It died one early dawn.

That handsome fur about your throat
Which came from the white for slain—
Was it worth the price, do you think,

madame?
Not in gold, but in blood and pain.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Page 53

A Ghastly Anachronism

ROY TEMPLE HOUSE

HE Jewish playwright and radical re-

former, Ernst Toller, is one of the Ger-

man exiles whose books are at present
published outside of Germany. Querido of
Amsterdam has just issued his partial auto-
biography, “Eine Jugend in Deutschland”
(“My Youth in Germany”), and it is due
to appear in English. In one of the earlier
pages of this book, Toller records, in his
characteristically abrupt fashion, a signiﬁ-
cant happening of his middle teens:—

“A friend of my father who owns an
estate invites me to go hunting with him. I
shoot partridge and snipe and rabbits. Herr
Schauer asks me: . -

mean that with the increasingly insistent
demand for consideration of the rights of
men as men, there may come an increased
regard for what Dean Inge calls the Rights
of Animals. Sooner or late-r the oppressed
among men will rise in their majority and
might and despoil the shrewd few who have
been hoodwinking and robbing and murder-
ing them. The animals will presumably
never recover their rights by their own
initiative. Perhaps the lords of creation will
destroy each other and leave the earth to
their former slaves and victims. Or per-
haps the views of men like Ernst Toller
will eventually prevail.

 

“ ‘Did you wound a roe yesterday?’

“I am startled. I had met a roe, had tak-
en aim, had hesitated for a moment, remem-
bering that my gun was not loaded with
buckshot but with smaller shot; then, in a
burst of hot passion, I had ﬁred. The ani-
mal had run off.

“ ‘Did you wound a roe yesterday?’ Herr
Schauer asks me again.

“ ‘Yes,’ I answer, in a whisper.

“ ‘Did you use buckshot?’

“‘No. Small shot.’

“ ‘Go and look at the animal. It is lying
in the clearing. You will never shoot a roe
with small shot again.’

“I go out through the woods to the clear—
ing. When I come near the roe, it struggles
to its feet, drags itself a few steps and
drops in a heap. The big, moist eyes are
turned toward me. I am overwhelmed by
the dumb reproach of the helpless creature.
I know that I shall never take a gun in my
hands again.”

Many of us have had similar experiences,
but with the most of us they have not been
so lasting in their effect. Consigned to
paper after the boy has become a man, this
painful confession is a resolution. Ernst
Toller has gone farther even than his
kindly host. He will never again be guilty
of killing animals for sport. And since
Ernst Toller is one of the leaders of the
world movement for revising the old crude
and barbarous values, his position may

It is strange that in all the enormous-
mass of literature, music and art which
deals with hunting, there is so little record
of protest against its callous cruelty. But
we ﬁnd it now and then, very strikingly. In
Sir Thomas More’s “Utopia,” much of which
is convincingly actual not by accident or be-
cause the author had an uncanny prophetic
gift, but because facts have always been
facts and human nature has been funda-
mentally the same since Adam, is the ﬁnest
passage which has ever been written on
this matter:—

“Hunters also, and hawkers . . . if the
hope of slaughter and the expectation of
tearing in pieces the beast both please thee:
thou shouldest rather be moved with pity to
see a silly innocent hare murdered of a dog,
the weak of the stronger, the fearful of the
ﬁerce, the innocent of the cruel and unmer—
ciful. Therefore all this exercise of hunting,
as a thing unworthy to be used of free men,
the Utopians have rejected to their butch-
ers, to the which craft (as we said before)
they appoint their bondmen. For they count
hunting the lowest, the vilest, and most
abject part of butchery, and the other parts
of it more proﬁtable and more honest, as
which do bring much more commodity, and
do kill beasts only for necessity. Whereas
the hunter seeketh nothing but pleasure of
the silly and woeful beasts’ slaughter and
murder. The which pleasure, in beholding
death, they think doth rise in the very

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

ﬁlay,1934
My Kitten

N . H . D U N N I N G

How frolicsome are all your ways;
How sweet, how blithe, how coy;

Wee, sonsy cat! Your gaieties
Bring me unbroken joy.

You feign to pounce upon your prey—
A docile catnip mouse;

You move in whirls, a pigmy storm
That scampers through the house.

Anon, you make my desk your ﬁeld;
You vex me at my task.

And yet, had I no bonny pet,
What good were work, I ask?

At length, with paws and tail grown tired
0n sports you most adore,

You choose a sunshine-patch for rest
Upon my parlor ﬂoor.

On Cats.

LOVE all cats, wild and gentle, common

and exotic, those who are clad in rich
robes and those clad in homely broad—
cloth, writes Sisley Huddleston in the
Christian Science Monitor. I do not really
ask why, despite the demerits which Buf-
fon enumerates with such gusto, man—
kind has adopted this charming beast. It
has captured my heart as it has captured
the hearts of millions of my fellows. I have
had savage cats which boasted of their high
standing, and cats which sprang from the
street; and they have all been delightful,
unexpected, fantastic, capricious, and beau-
tiful.

And I think of the cats that other men
have admired. Richelieu, at the height of
his power, with the weight of Europe upon
him, sitting at his desk amid a pile of docu-
ments, disposing of the destinies of nations,
would have preferred to cut off a portion of
his scarlet gown rather than disturb the
slumber of Racan or Moussard-la-Fougueux
of Soumise or Ludovic-le-Cruel. One of the
successors of Richelieu was M. Poincare,
generally pictured as stern, rigid, grave.
But M. Poincare twenty years before in his
cabinet had a Siamese cat which perpetu—
ated his species, and M. Poincare, when
Prime Minister, was as fond as ever of his
feline friends. He was not blind to their
faults, but expressed his pleas-
ure in their society.

He said: “The cat is witty, he
has nerve, he knows how to do
precisely the right thing at
precisely the right moment. He
is impulsive and facetious and
appreciates the value of a
well-turned p l e a s a n t r y. He
extricates himself from the
most difﬁcult situations by a
little pirouette. To how many
timid and hesitating persons
could he give useful lessons.
I have never seen him embar-
rassed. With an astonishing
promptitude he chooses instantly
between two solutions of a prob-
lem, not merely that which is
better from his point of view
and in conformity with his in-
terest, but also that which is
elegant and gracious.”

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

The Moose Has His Photo Taken

PERCY B. PRIOR
THE gray mists of early morning shroud

the wooded hills. Everything is per-
fectly still, not a leaf stirs.

Standing erect on a jutting rock Paul,
the Indian guide, lifts a birch-bark horn
to his lips and describes a circle with it as
he blows: “Oo-oo-oo-wah !”

A long-drawn-out call echoes across the
woodlands. Crouched down behind a fallen
tree-trunk a hunter listens intently, and
soon he is rewarded by hearing the answer-
ing call, the bellow of a bull moose! The
sound is faint and far off, perhaps a mile
away. .

“Give him another,” whispers the hunter.
Again the horn gives out its mournful note.

This time the answering call sounds con-
siderably nearer. The bull has taken up
the challenge. Paul continues to call at in-
tervals until the crashing in the brushwood
comes dangerously near. Then he quickly
scrambles down beside the hunter who waits
with quickening breath. With a rending of
branches the huge animal bursts into View.
He is a ﬁne beast, whose massive antlers
have a span of ﬁve feet.

The watchers are careful to make no
noise until the quarry comes within range,

 

Photo by E. D. Putnam
A DULL LESSON

for. powerful though the moose is, he will
bolt if alarmed and will continue galloping
until he has put seven or eight miles be-
tween himself and his hunters.

Now the hunter is ready. But he is not
going to shoot. Instead, the shutter of a

camera clicks. The moose has had his photo
taken.

The charging animal still comes on, and
it seems that the lives of both men are in
deadly peril. The hunter lifts a riﬂe, but
even now he has no intention of killing.
Instead, he ﬁres at the ground a few feet
in front of the oncoming beast, which
plunges to a startled halt, then bolts into
the forest, free and unharmed.

This is only one example of how big game
hunting is changing. Many hunters in all
parts of the world who used to shoot are
now taking to the camera. This gives
equally thrilling and often more dangerous
sport, for it is sometimes necessary to get

closer to the quarry with a camera than
with a riﬂe.

Photographing wild animals is often done
at night with the aid of a ﬂashlight, and it
becomes doubly dangerous when the photo-
graphs have to be taken from a canoe at
great risk of capsizing the boat by running
into a fallen log or a jutting rock.

The reward of the photographer is a ﬁne
picture to possess and show to his friends,
and surely that is better than carrying
home heads to be stuffed.

Retired Workers’ Fqu

We are receiving gifts to the American~
Humane Education Society as a trust fund,
the interest to be used for the beneﬁt of
ﬁeld missionaries and others who have
spent their lives in promoting humane
education.

We will welcome your contribution to
this fund. Please make checks payable to
Treasurer, American Humane Education
Society, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, and
specify that the amount contributed is for
the Humane Education Trust Fund.

 

 

 




 

 

July, 1931;

Captive Camel
JOSEPH MCDOWELL MATHEWS

How wistful is your alien solitude
. Far lost companion of the Eastern dunes.
Your hair like tarnished gilt of sand
swept moons
That watched above a vagrant, turbaned
brood.
What are your dreams, old, patient, home-
sick beast?
Are they of some marauding Arab clan
Asleep in midnight, whose drab caravan
Moved on from dance to dance and feast to
feast?
The rolling leagues are long to Taj-Mahal
But dreams are swift as lightning or
monsoon;
Do they bring back weird cadence of a
tune
That hurts when dream girls dance in your
corral?
In your still eyes I read these memories
0f lands where pagan nomads paused to
pray
Along a purple waste. Old camel, say,
Do you yet listen to the winds and seas
For that familiar voice of one to come
And in this rusted lock to turn the key
That will release you from captivity?
Or, in your heart thr-ob do you hear a drum?

Tuberculosis at the Zoo
MORRY TANENBAUM

NIMALS do not get tuberculosis when

they are out in the forests where they
have their homes, but they do when they are
cooped up in the zoo of a city made for hu—
man beings. Ostriches, pythons, buffaloes,
lions and tigers all get it. Monkeys were
especially susceptible. In the city of Chi-
cago the zoo was becoming a veritable
slaughter-house.

There it was in Lincoln Park, one of the
ﬁnest zoos in one of the ﬁnest parks in the
world. What could be done about it? The
best thing to do might have been to return
the animals but since this was out of the
question, something else had to be done. De
Vry, the superintendent of the zoo, was
known and respected everywhere as being
well acquainted with the best methods of
animal care.

He called Dr. Evans, the pathologist of
the zoo, to his aid and showed him how he
had reproduced natural conditions. The av-
erage temperature of the monkey’s home in
monkey lands was eighty-ﬁve degrees. Good!
The solution was to let them get their
eighty-ﬁve in the summer sun, and keep
the winter heat up to that point. This was
being done, but the results were disastrous.
The death rate from tuberculosis was higher
in Lincoln Park zoo than'in the lower East
side of New York.

Fifty and sixty deaths every single year
are altogether too much, and Mr. De Vry
was becoming more and more worried. No
matter how much heat he kept in the
monkey—house, the monkeys died of tuber-
culosis.

That fall, another shipment of monkeys
arrived. Most of them were healthy since
they were fresh from the tropics. Some of
them, however, were physically degener—
ate—they had been in this land of ours too
long. They were mangy, their hair was
gone, the skin was tight around their bones,
they were feverish and unhappy.

OUR DUMB

Dr. Evans suggested
that instead of putting

ANIMALS

Page 101

STRETCH THE WEEK TO A YEAR

 

these monkeys in the
w i n t e r “deathhouse,”
they be left outside in
the cold. When the ﬁrst
snow came, these sick
monkeys did not turn
over and die. Of course
they were from the
tropics, but they didn’t
seem to mind Chicago’s
winter snows so very
much.

Before long, children
were coming from all
over the north side to

see monkeys sitting on ‘_ REMEﬁEElir/Airs!

a pile of snow eating
a banana, just as if
there were plenty of
snow in Africa or South
America. They were in
drafts and they were
chilled through and
through every few
days. Inside the mon-
key-house, their broth-
ers were perched on the
radiator, bravely try-
ing to keep warm. Out—
side, the brethren were
ready for a snowball
ﬁght. By spring, the
monkeys outside were
the only ones who did
not get tuberculosis.
Instead, they had

 

LET THEM HAVE reg RIGHT oz: WAY .

RISK/N5 HIS
LIFE To SAVE

 

 

I

 

 

 

coverings of hair,
stronger muscles and
g o o d appetites. It
seemed that a rctic
weather didn’t do these creatures any harm;
they were from the tropics, but why not
adjust themselves to changing conditions?

This was an entirely new principle in zoo
management. If zoos were to be kept at all,
surely they ought to be run with the very
best methods, eliminating disease and death.
Mr. De Vry changed his way of thinking.
Instead of manufacturing “natural” condi-
tions for tropical animals, he found that the
animals would, if given a chance, adapt
themselves to temperate climates.

From that time on Chicago’s zoo had no
trouble. The animals were apparently as
content as they could be and no more died
of tuberculosis. The zoo was novel indeed,
since for many years it enjoyed the reputa-
tion of being the only place in the world
where kangaroos jumped through snow and
ostriches raced over ice.

From buffaloes to sacred bulls, and from
wild hogs to antelope, the general physical
condition was improved. Strange, indeed,
how those sick monkeys that came in that
fall shipment were the means of saving
their brethren from the tropics from the
dread disease of tuberculosis.

More friends are needed to endow stalls
and new kennels in the Angel] Memorial
Animal HOSpital. Payments of thirty-ﬁve
dollars for a kennel or seventy-ﬁve dollars
for a stall will insure a suitable marker
inscribed with donor’s name. Terms of
permanent endowment of free stalls and
kennels will be given upon application to
the Massachusetts S. P. C. A., 180 Long-

wood Avenue, Boston.

CARTOON BY M. R. HALLADAY IN Providence Journal
MAY 14, WHICH WON FIRST PRIZE, $50 CASH

Cartoon Prize Winners

NNOUNCEMENT of prizes for the
best cartoons illustrating kindness to
animals, offered by the American Humane
Education Society of Boston, in connection
with Be Kind to Animals Week, was made
June 5 by President Francis H. Rowley of
the Society. Special cartoons by artists of
national reputation appeared in prominent
newspapers from Massachusetts to Hawaii.
The ﬁrst prize, $50 cash, was awarded
to M. R. Halladay for a cartoon entitled,
“Stretch the Week to a Year,” which ap-
peared in the “Providence Journal,” May
14, and which is reproduced on this page;
second prize, $25 cash, was awarded to
Craig Fox for a cartoon entitled “Forever
Faithful,” which appeared in the “Monroe
Republican,” Rochester, N. Y., April 19.
Honorable mention was given to Elmer R.
Messner, of the “Times-Union,” Rochester,
N. Y., for a cartoon entitled, “Why Not
Extend It,” which appeared in all of the
Gannett newspapers during Be Kind to Ani-
mals Week; and to Karl Kae Knecht for a
cartoon entitled, “This Week and Every
Week,” which appeared in the “Courier,”
Evansville, Indiana, April 16.

 

JOIN THE JACK LONDON CLUB

The vicious and cruel exploitation of
animals can be boycotted from the public
stage. Send you name for enrolment to

Our Dumb Animals.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

Aug. 1934

Blue Jay

ANNE ALTHA SINGLETON

Perhaps you are immoral—
A cannibal of birds—

Yet your blue is worthy
A eulogy of words.

A very scrap of Heaven
Caught upon a tree:

Cerulean robe and crown
Make you wonderful to see!

Babies That Shrink

MORRY TANE'NBAUM
HAT would you think of babies

which are larger when they are

babies than when they are full grown?
Strange as it must seem, there are quite a
few animals where the babies are giants
compared to the same babies grown-up.

In South America you can ﬁnd a frog
which is only about two inches long. Yet,
the tadpoles of this frog often reach a
length of ten inches! Most of the tadpole is
tail, but it is actually ﬁve times the size of
its parents or the size it will reach when it
has become a frog! As soon as the tadpole
is as big as it can get, it starts to shrink
using the extra size which is only stored-up
food! At last it changes to the long-legged
frog it really is, adopting its family colors
of gorgeous greens, yellows, browns and
bronze.

Young gannets are frequently a quarter
again as heavy as their parents. But when
the mother and father birds decide to leave
their young so that they can learn to shift
for themselves, the birds have very little to
eat. Without someone to bring them their
food, they lose weight and slowly shrink,
though all this time they are gaining in
health, in strength and in wisdom. At last
they are strong enough to ﬂy out to sea
where they can meet the rest of the mem-
bers of their tribe.

Many creatures are small just'after they
change from one stage to another. Thus
we ﬁnd that the bull-frog is just a tiny little
thing which hardly seems to have come from
such a large tadpole. But, the bull-frog
starts to grow and it does not take very
long before it is far bigger than its tadpole.

The babies of our common eels reach a
length of a little over two inches. They
are shaped like long leaves and are very
thin and transparent. As soon as they reach
their full size, they start to shrink and be-
come cylindrical. They begin to show their
real color and shrink
still more. However,
they are now full-
ﬂedged eels and they
enter the rivers after
which they really start
growing, reaching the
length of the other
members of the eel
family.

The measure of our
civilization is our re-
sponse to the cry for
justice and compas- . V

sion, let it come from

what source it may. NE

0 UR D UMB ANIMALS

Page 125

 

TRIO OF JUVENILE KINGBIRDS

The Strange and Beneficial
Bat

RAYMOND E. MOORE

EW creatures, with the exception of

domestic animals, render a more valu-
able service to mankind than the common
bat. And there is perhaps no creature that
displays more peculiar habits, or which
boasts of a more strange and mysterious
existence.

Many people regard a bat as belonging to
the bird family, but this is an error. The
bat is a true mammal, but in general form
is so distinctly separated from any other
group of animals as to form a class by it-
self. Its chief peculiarity is the wide, semi-
transparent and extremely delicate mem-
brane which stretches round its body, by
means of which it is able to beat the air
with sufﬁcient force to insure rapid ﬂight.
Another peculiarity is the short and slen-
der legs which are so arranged that the feet
are rather turned outward for the purpose
of using the sharp curved claws with which
each toe is furnished, and by means of
which the animal can suspend itself from
any projecting object.

This strange creature always takes up its
abode in some dark and retired spot, an old
abandoned building or tower affording an
ideal place of concealment. Here it remains
during the day, emerging from its retreat
at dusk. It is gregarious, large numbers
assembling together in one building. Dur-
ing the winter it remains in a state of the
deepest lethargy, requiring no food or
water, and even almost wholly ceasing to
breathe.

      

W ZEALAND GANNETS

Bats are very swift and accurate ﬂyers,
and there are few birds more supple on the
wing than they. How they are able to thread
their way among boughs of trees and other
impediments in the dark is quite wonderful
indeed. The most dense darkness doesn’t seem
to interfere with the aerial maneuvers of

(these strange creatures. It is said that if

shut up in a darkened place, in which
strings have been stretched in various direc-
tlons, they will pursue their course, avoid-
ing every obstacle with unfailing accuracy.

Bats are in general very much averse to
the ground and seldom place themselves on
a level surface. Their manner of walking
1s singularly grotesque and awkward, and is
achieved with such difﬁculty as to seem al-
most painful to them.

While these strange creatures have the
power of rising into the air from the ground,
the same as a bird, they always prefer to
let themselves fall from some elevated spot.
They are most excellent climbers, being able
to hitch their sharp and curved claws into
the tiniest crack or roughness that may
present itself, and can thus ascend a per-
pendicular wall with perfect security. In
climbing, they always advance backwards,
raising their bodies against the wall which
they desire to scale, and drawing them-
selves up by the alternate use of the hind
feet. Once they have attained a goodly
height, they are able to ﬂing themselves
into the air and take to immediate ﬂight.

Another most interesting and peculiar
characteristic of the bats is the manner in
which they take care of their young. It
appears that the tail and the membrane
which stretches on either side from the tail
to the hind legs, are made into a sort of
cradle, and here the little bats are placed
when newly born and helpless, and tenderly
reared by the mother.

Bats derive their living totally from the
insects which they capture upon the wing.
They are like the swallow in the eﬂicient
and dexterous manner in which they obtain
their winged prey. Indeed, a. curious an-
alogy exists between the two species. Both
are lovers of the air, and both are mostly
seen on the wing; and no sooner have the
swallows retired to rest at dusk, than the
bats emerge from their homes, and resume,
with the same tireless energy, the unceasing
labor of depleting the insect population.
The only difference between them, it seems,
is that the swallows migrate in winter to
a more genial clime, while the bats, al-
though in a state of hibernation, remain
with us. -

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

Oct. 1934

To a Royal Bengal Tiger
LOUISE LINDEN

They took you from your jungle home;
They brought you far across the sea;
They put you in this wire cage
To be stared at by folks like me.

They do not heed your pleading eyes;
They do not care if you are sad;

They only know you draw a crowd
Around your cage and they are glad.

You’ve closed your eyes, now do you dream
0f jungle nights—a tropic moon——

A tawny mate with quivering ﬂanks——
A day that ended all too soon?

Dream on, poor beast with drooping head
Within your cage in this great 200,

A martyr of the noisy throng,
In death, at last, your dreams come true.

World Peace Through

Kindness

Editorial in Worcester Evening Gazette

HAT kindness to animals is more im-

portant to the men than to the animals
involved is no new theory, but it receives
new emphasis in the campaign just inau-
gurated by the women’s clubs of Southern
California. The ladies contend, moreover,
that “important progress toward humane
conditions, hence to world peace, can be
made by inculcating in children a spirit of
decency, tolerance and kindliness to all liv-
ing creatures.”

Which seems true enough, in theory at
least. Certainly the boy who kicks his dog
around the yard, who stones the neighbor-
hood cats and mistreats his pet rabbits is
seldom a decent and jolly playfellow in the
schoolyard. He usually is a sneak and a
bully. Whether he grows up to be the sort
of statesman Who steers countries into wars
is something else again.

That animals have the right to decent
treatment is generally conceded now, though
only a few years ago he who would talk of
the “rights” of animals was looked upon
as eccentric. But it is only in comparatively
recent times that they who talked of the
“rights” of the common people were also
considered a bit balmy by the then all
powerful aristocrats.

Certainly there is still far too much
cruelty to both animals and men by folk
who should and do know better. In spite
of the fact that there has been vast im-
provement in our treatment of dumb ani-
mals the past ﬁfty years, the records of
police courts prove that animals still receive
a good deal of inhuman and barbarous
treatment.

Cruelty to animals is despicable and hor-
rible and every intelligent effort to stop it
is to be encouraged. And perhaps after all
there is some merit to the contention that
people who would never be cruel to horses
and dogs and cats would refuse to put on
uniforms and go out to stick bayonets into
other people.

Spare all the harmless creatures of the
earth.

Spare, and be spared, or who shall plead
for thee. CHRISTINA ROSSETTI

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Page 1.49

The Shy Pine Marten

W. J.

NLIKE most of the weasel folk, the
I! i shy pine marten shuns the settle-

ments of man and is seldom guilty of
robbing the poultry yard. Avoiding the
clearings of civilization, he clings tena-
ciously to the gloom of the heavy ﬁr forests.
So the growth of population has driven him

BANKS

like all babies, and are easily tamed. In
the north country Indian children frequent-
ly make pets of young marten, who sleep in
their blankets or pockets and make faith-
ful if mischievous pets.

One settler brought home a pair of young
martens who seemed to be quite content

 

 

PINE MARTEN, BANFF NATIONAL PARK, ALBERTA

far into the backwoods. And now he is
found only here and there, in greatly re-
duced numbers, throughout his vast original
range which extends from sea to sea in
Canada and many of the northern States.

Kill, kill, kill ..... This has been the
relentless motto of man with regard to the
marten. Because of his beautiful fur he
is sometimes called the American sable—
the marten has been ruthlessly trapped un-
til only by the most stringent regulations
can the species be saved. In years of peak
fur prices single marten skins have brought
as much as $200. Needless to say, the
greed of man leaves little thought for
mercy or conservation when such prices
prevail.

So retiring is this little tree dweller,
whose highways are the mighty limbs of
the largest evergreens, that many people
who have lived all their lives in good marten
country have never seen a live marten at
large in his natural haunts. One old trapper
who has taken hundreds of skins has seen
only three. Ernest Thompson Seton, that
most observant naturalist, tells us that he
caught sight of but one. Yet the stealthy
little beasts, we know, are curious like all
weasels, and must spend hours watching
human intruders from the shelter of the
foliage.

All weasels are unsociable by nature, but
the pine marten is the least gregarious of
all. Adult martens always seem to ﬁght on
meeting, and naturalists can ﬁnd no record
of two or more adults being observed hunt-
ing together, or otherwise giving signs of
tolerating each other’s company. The young
kittens, of course, romp together in play

with their new surroundings and made a
good meal of bread and milk. In the night
they gnawed their way out of the box that
conﬁned them and found more comfortable
quarters in the pocket of a hanging coat.
But as time went on they broke almost
everything movable in the house, mauled
a cat to death, rolled in the ﬂour barrel,
robbed the sugar bowl, and made short
work of an innocent duck.

The marten’s natural diet is a highly
varied one, but mice undoubtedly provide
the most frequent and popular item on his
menu. Partridge, rabbits, squirrels, chip-
munks, shrews, birds and their eggs, frogs,
ﬁsh, insects and small reptiles help to com-
plete his diversiﬁed choice of meats. Nuts,
berries, honey and other foods vary the
monotony of ﬂesh.

The marten himself has to watch out for
a few woodland denizens who are not ad-
verse to marten steak for dinner. The
ﬁsher who can run the marten down in his
own leafy element, is perhaps his most
dangerous four-footed enemy, while the
fox and lynx also bear watching. But
man and the red terror, which so often re-
sults from man’s carelessness and consumes
vast areas of forest, are the greatest men-
aces to the marten folk.

The pine marten boasts a rich dark
brown coat, shaded into blackish on.the
tail and legs, with a pale buff to whitlsh
patch on the throat and breast. His claws
and ear linings are almost white. He looks

and acts like a large, dark squirrel in the
tree-s, and his hollowed-out den, far up the
tree—trunk from the ground, is no doubt
often provided by an unfortunate squlrrel.

 

 

 

 




 

 

Page 8

Our Dumb Animals

Published on the first Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention 0
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston Ofﬁce; 180 Longwood Av-
enue, Boston, Mass., to which all communications
should be addressed. '

Dr. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON, Editor
WILLIAM M. MORRILL, Assistant

Hf

JANUARY, 1934

 

 

 

FOR TERMS, see back cover.

AGENTS to take orders for Our Dumb Animals are
wanted everywhere. Liberal commissions are offered.

EDITORS of all periodicals who receive this pub-
lication this month are invited to reprint any of the
articles with or without credit.

MANUSCRIPTS relating to animals, particularly
proselarticles of about three hundred words are solic-
ited. We do not wish to consider prose manuscripts
longer than 800 words, nor verse in excess of thirty-
six lines. The shorter the better. All manuscripts
should be typewritten and an addressed envelope with
full return postage enclosed with each offering.

 

 

 

 

Wild Horses

HE cruelties suffered by hundreds of the

wild horses of certain western states as
they are collected and driven across water-
less and grassless wastes to be slaughtered
for various food purposes beggars descrip-
tion. It would seem as if there must be
enough humane people in the states where
this kind of business is carried on to abate
in some measure at least the sufferings
these poor creatures endure. Can the U. S.
Department of Agriculture do anything
about it? We do not know. Let us all write-
the Department and ﬁnd out. It may stir
up something and lead to an investigation.

A Gunless Christmas

Oakland, California, so Our Animals tells
us, bans guns for minors and all slingshots
are outlawed. Through the efforts largely
of the Latham Foundation, the same author-
ity state-s Oakland this last month had a
“Gunless Christmas.” The toy pistol, the
toy guns, the toy soldiers, how eager is
many a boy to have these miniature war
things, yet more and more parents are giv-
ing their children constructive toys which
appeal to the mechanical rather than to the
ﬁghting tendencies.

England and the Steel Trap

A friend writes us from England that the
humane organizations are seeking legisla-
tion which will forbid the use of the steel
trap. Already a rabbit snare is being ex-
perimented with which its advocates claim
will destroy painlessly at least 70 per cent
of those taken, and even the other 30 per
cent do not appear to have suffered greatly.
While not perfect, this new device, it is be-
lieved, is far ahead of the steel trap.

Radio advertising is expensive, but it goes
far. Any gift for such a fund to either of
our Soc1eties will be greatly appreciated.

If you want to buy Schnauzers or other
young dogs, we can give you the name of a
man who never mutilates his dogs in any
way. No ears trimmed, no tails cut off.

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

War or Christ

ETWEEN these two, said the Rev. Dr.

Harry Emerson Fosdick in a recent
sermon I must make the choice of Christ. I
have tried hard to weigh all the claims that
War can put into the scales, but for me,
War, never! These are not his exact words
but they state his stand as for Christ and
against War. Should another war get
started through the folly, or wickedness of
political or government leaders, we prophesy
that multitudes would ﬁnd their conscience
forcing them to refuse utterly to take up
arms. Can a Christian be loyal to his
Master and go forth to kill his fellow—man
who may also be a follower of the same
Christ? rAlas, what millions have been slain
in the name of the Prince of Peace.

One Close Shave too Many

Douglas Baird of Pittsburgh, Pa., sends
in the following clipping, taken from the
Press of that city, and writes:

“It requires no comment, in my opinion,
for it speaks very eloquently for itself. It
exemplifies that type of sportsmanship that
you and your magazine are attempting to

. discourage. I doubt that you will meet with

much success in your noble enterprise, for
there are always some ‘men,’ with little
right, to that designation, who will insist
on slaughtering the harmless and defense-
less creatures of the forest as a pastime
and recreation. This clipping may serve to
deter some with a spark of humanity from
mutilating their fellow animals.”

ALFRED, ME., Nov. 23—A ZOO-pound,
nine-point buck had many a close shave
before Forrest Burbank finally bagged it.
One antler had been shot off. There was
a bullet hole through one. ear. And one of
the forelegs had been shot off at the knee.
Evidently the deer had been traveling on
three legs.

A Heroic Woman

The Annual Report of the Cheshire
County (New Hampshire) Humane Society
again brings before those of us who know
her the strong, kind but fearless face of
Mrs. Jennie B. Powers, the agent and in-
vestigating ofﬁcer of that organization. Year
after year, no matter what storms sweep
down over those remote stretches of country
that lie about that section of the state, no
matter how almost impossible the roads
from snow or mud, she answers the call of
suffering child or animal—an angel of mercy
today, tomorrow a representative of the law
that forbids all cruelty to man or beast.
Compared with the world in which some of
us serve our great cause, hers is small, but
in personal sacriﬁce, in actual toil, in en—
durance of hardship, in merit in the sight
of Heaven, she outranks a multitude of us
whose names are far more widely known.
During the past year 73 children, some Vic-
tims of parents’ cruelty, some inmates of
squalid and morally unﬁt homes, found in
her a friend and deliverer. Unsheltered and
unfed cattle, old and worn-out horses, lost,
ill-treated dogs and cats and hungry birds
have shared her ministries. Surely, “Of
such is the Kingdom of Heaven.”

Please remember the Massachusetts S. P. C. A. when making your will.

 

Jan. 1931;

A Letter from Italy

T. COL. OLIVETTI ALBERTO, presi-

dent of the Society for the Protection
of Animals, Torino, in a letter acknowledg-
ing a slight service we were able to render
him, writes: »

“I am sending you brief summary about
the birds’, or wild animals’ sanctuary, lately
decreed in Italy. Many other sanctuaries
will be decreed in the near future. The
Mussolini Government is a very zoophile and
humane government.” In his letter he en-
closes this interesting but pathetic story of
a pair of Tripoli swallows:

Two swallows were building their nest
under the .architrave of a window in the
house of 75 street of Tripoli, bringing from
far balls of mud in their beaks.

Their work was nearly ﬁnished when an
unknown hand threw a stone which partly
destroyed the nest. The two swallows took
up their work, undaunted, and mended'the
part that was, broken.

Again the same cowardly hand damaged
the nest; this, as on previous occasion, hap-
pened at night. The following morning not
only were the same two swallows hard at
work repairing the damage done, but three
other pairs were there helping. Evidently
the swallow was in a hurry to lay her eggs
and had begged some of her neighbors to
help her. ‘

In a few hours the nest was completely
restore-d, but unluckily even such wonder-
ful work on the part of these brave little
birds did not soften the heart of the brute.
The next morning, early, Mrs. Scope-cci,
who lived in the same house, awakened by
long and excited twitterings, opened the
window and saw that the nest had been
smashed to pieces and a number of swallows
were ﬂying about in front of the window in
despair. _

The nest was not mended again and the
swallows ﬂew away.

The Royal Society for Protection of
Animals, will be able to trace the author of
this brutal vandalism and, needless to say,
he will be given a well-deserved lesson.

The Squirrel Pays Well for
His Meals

There’s money in feeding peanuts to squir-
rels—at least for socially prominent Mrs.
Andrew O’Neill of Chestnut Hill. Mrs.
O’Neill says one of the little animals ap-
peared at her home and was given some
peanuts. Several days later, it re—appeared
and dropped a dollar bill—slightly chewed
and wet, but still a dollar—at the door.

Retired Workers’ Fund

We are receiving gifts to the American
Humane Education Society as a trust fund,
the interest to be used for the beneﬁt of
ﬁeld missionaries and others who have
spent their lives in promoting humane
education.

We will welcome your contribution to
this fund. Please make checks payable. to
Treasurer, American Humane Education
Society, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, and
specify that the amount contributed is for
the Humane Education Trust Fund.

 

 

 




 

Jan. 1934

 

Founded by Geo. T. Angell. Incorporated March, 1868

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY. Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds
JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman, Chase Harris Forbes
Corporation
CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President, United Shoe
Machinery Corporation
PHILIP STOCKTON, President, First National Bank Of
Boston

Prosecuting Ofﬁcers in Boston
Telephone (Complaints, Ambulances) Longwood 6100
L. WILLARD WALKER, Chief Ofﬁcer

HARRY L. ALLEN DAVID A. BOLTON
HARVEY R. FULLER HOWARD WILLAND
WALTER B. POPE

County Prosecuting Ofﬁcers

HERMAN N. DEAN, Boston

Middlesex, Norfolk and Plymouth
FRED T. VICKERS, Lynn Eastern Essex
WILLIAM W. HASWELL, Methuen Western Essex
THEODORE W. PEARSON, Springfield,

‘ Hampden, Hampshire and Franklin
ROBERT L. DYSON, Worcester, Worcester
WINFIELD E. DUNHAM, New Bedford, Bristol
HAROLD G. ANDREWS, Hyannis,

Barnstable, Dukes and Nantucket
EDWIN D. MOODY, Pittsfield Berkshire

Rest Farm for Horses and Small Animal Shelter,
Methuen

W. W. HASWELL, Superintendent

Women’s Auxiliary of the Mass. S. P. C. A., 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston—MRS. EDITH WASHBURN
CLARKE, Pres.; MRS. A. J. FURBUSH, Treas.; MRS.
AGNES P. FISHER, Ch. Work Com.

Springﬁeld Branch.—MRS. DONALD C. KIBBE, Pres.;
MRS. AARON BAGG, Treas.

_ Winchester Branch—MRS. RICHARD S. TAYLOR,
Pres.; MISS BESSIE SMALL, Treas.

MONTHLY REPORT OF OFFICERS

Miles traveled by humane Ofﬁcers. 12,395
Cases investigated .............. 444
Animals examined .............. 7,777
Number of prosecutions .......... 5
Number of convictions . . . -. ...... 5

Horses taken from work . . . -. ..... 22

Horses humanely put to sleep . . . . 111
Small animals humanely put to
sleep ........................ 1,197
Stock-yards and Abattoirs
Animals inspected . ......... . . . 53,967
Cattle, swine and sheep humanely
put to sleep ............ . 27

The Massachusetts Society for the Pre-
vention of Cruelty to Animals has been
remembered in the Wills of Gertrude Allen
of Canton, Elizabeth A. Lane Of Springﬁeld,
Robert D. Holt Of Newton, Fanny Grant
Brown of Stafford, Conn., Annie E. Cameron
of Killingly, Conn, and William Brewster
of Newport, R. I.

December 12, 1933.

Remember the Mass. Society for the Pre-
vention of Cruelty to Animals in your will.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

Angell Memorial Animal Hospital
and
Dispensary for Animals

184 Longwood Avenue Telephone, Longwood 6100

Veterinarians .

. DAILEY, v. M. D., Chief of Staff

. SCHNEIDER, v. M. D., Asst. Chief
. SCHROEDER, D. v. M.

. SCHNELLE, v. M. D.

. MUNSON, v. M. D.

. BLAKELY, v. M. D.

HARRY L. ALLEN,

, Springﬁeld Branch
53-57 Bliss Street, Springfield, Mass.
THEODORE W. PEARSON, General Manager
Veterinarians

A. R. EVANS, v. M. D.
H. L. SMEAD, D. v. M.

939E”?
EOWQHq

Superintendent

 

 

 

HOSPITAL REPORT FOR NOVEMBER
Including Springﬁeld Branch

Hospital Dispensary
Cases entered 788 Cases 2,502
Dogs 593 Dogs 2,060
Cats 189 Cats 404
Horses 3 Birds 32
Birds 2 Rabbits 3
Rabbit 1 Horses 2

Rat 1
Operations 1,086

Hospital cases since Opening, Mar.

 

1, 1915 ...................... 115,913
Dispensary Cases ................ 265,150

Total ........................ 381,063

The Month in the Springﬁeld Branch
Cases entered in Hospital ........... 82
Cases entered in Dispensary ....... 307
Operations ........................ 139

MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A. IN THE
COURTS

Some Prosecutions in November.

For cruelly overdriving and beating a
horse a defendant was ﬁned $20.

One who had charge and custody of a
cow was arraigned for unnecessarily failing
to provide animal with proper food, shelter
and protection from the weather. He pleaded
guilty and was sentenced to House Of Cor-
rection for three months. Sentence sus-
pended for one year.

For causing a horse to suffer unnecessa-
rily by permitting it to lie upon the ground in
a helpless condition after owner had been
ordered to dispose of animal, defendant
found guilty and case was continued to May
18, 1934, for sentence.

' For cruelly mutilating two horses, a bull
and four calves by means of shotgun and
axe, a defendant pleaded guilty. The case
was continued for several days when he was
adjudged criminally insane and committed
to the State Farm at Bridgewater.

Notice

Will you help in securing humane meth-

ods in the slaughter of our food animals?'

Then please send for copies of a summary
of President Rowley’s address, entitled
“The Great Cruelty,” upon this subject,
delivered at the annual convention of the
American Humane Association recently at
Hartford, Connecticut. As many copies as
you can wisely distribute will be sent Free.
A postal card will bring them.

 

Page 9

Protector Of Wild Life

R. WILLIAM TEMPLE HORNADAY,
78, long time (1896-1926) director of
New York’s Bronx ZOO, is a potent game
protectionist and foe of hunters. Last week
he wrote a letter to the New York Times
supplementing a manifesto he had issued
as “Director of Campaign Activities of the
Permanent Wild Life Protection Fund,”
which he organized in 1913. Excerpts:
“In the U. S. the baiting of waterfowl to
kill it, the treacherous and shameful use Of

 

International

DR. WILLIAM TEMPLE HORNADAY
NO more baiting? NO Live decoys?

live decoys and the sale of game on the wing
in the money-making ‘clubs’ of California
and Illinois are three unfair methods which
are very destructive to our waterfowl.
Many organizations and individual defend-
ers of game have protested against those
three methods and appealed to President
Roosevelt and Secretary Wallace to stop
them at once, by the Federal hunting regu-
lations now being formulated and soon to
be proclaimed by the President.”

In Nature’s Domain

The editor and publisher of the Pueblo,
Colorado, Indicator for many years, Mr.
Patrick Byrnes, has found space to print
many timely and instructive articles under
the caption, “In Nature’s Domain.” Much
Of this useful information is reproduced in
a pamphlet of twenty-four pages and is
dedicated to the humane cause. Editor
Byrnes writes about nature, wild life and
the great out-doors always from the hu-
mane standpoint. He richly deserves the
thanks of all into whose hands this inter-
esting compilation may come.

More friends are needed to endow stalls
and new kennels in the Angell Memorial
Animal Hospital. Payments of thirty-ﬁve

dollars for a kennel or seventy-ﬁve dollars
for a stall will insure a suitable marker
inscribed with donor’s name. Terms of per-
manent endowment of free stalls and ken-
nels will be given upon application to the
Massachusetts S. P. C. A., 180 Longwood

Avenue, Boston.

 

 




 

_ *3.“

N 07). 1931;

Noah and his ark would be perfectly at
home in some of the fo’c’s’les of modern
ships. From all accounts, the crews’ quar-
ters on some ships are veritable menager-
ies. When these sailors come with their
pets ashore they frequently are confronted
with restrictions about housing their pets.
So the majority come to 25 South Street,
New York, to the Seamen’s Church Insti-
tute’s thirteen-story building where birds,
mice and monkeys, if in cages, may be
checked in the baggage department. Every
effort is made so that the seame-n’s pets re-
ceive good care while their owners are on
shore leave. The chaplains and social ser-
vice workers are inclined to encourage the
men who show such devotion to dumb pets,
for it is indeed true that “one touch of
nature makes the whole world kin” and a
man who would rescue a stricken animal
will also leap to instant duty when the call
comes at sea for him to rescue passengers.

Saves Fire-frightened Cows

OSCAR H. ROESNER

Some domestic animals, as cows and
horses, have an almost insane desire, un-
der the fright induced by a ﬁre in their
usual quarters, to dash back into the burn-
ing building and thus become victims of
the ﬁre, even after having once been led
to safety outside. How to prevent such
an unhappy happening in the case of the
burning of a livestock barn is a problem,
but when a spectacular early morning ﬁre
destroyed a large barn on the Stanford-
Vina ranch recently in California, the
Swiss dairyman in charge of a herd of 60
milk cows usually quartered in the struc-
ture knew just what method to pursue to
prevent his charges from becoming fright-
ened and dashing back into the burning
barn to their death. As the ﬁre raged he
stood by his herd and warbled and yodeled
lustily, thus calming the animals to such
an extent that not a bovine dashed back
into the barn to destruction. The Swiss
dairyman had remembered and put into use
an old custom often found effective for
saving animals frantic with fear during a
ﬁre in his old home land.

Cats and dogs never talk about them-
selves, but listen to you while you talk about
yourself and keep up an appearance of
being interested in the conversation.

JEROME K. JEROME

 

“SPOT” WATCHING HIS LUNCH BASKET

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

The Personality of a Cat
CARRY LIZBETH JOY

HERE are cats and cats, just the
same as there are people and people.
There are some that are bright and intelli-
gent, and even witty, having their oWn little
ways and peculiarities; and there are others
that are just cats.

In a small but beautiful parlor in one
of the ﬁnest hotels in Washington, D. C.,
I was entertaining an afternoon caller.
The lady had brought me a very rare bou-
quet and I held the ﬂowers in my hand,
while we were chatting. Soon I felt some—
thing rubbing against my knee and pulling
on the stems and leaves of my gift. I looked
down, and there was a ﬁne large, yellow
and white cat, apparently very friendly but
helping himself to my ﬂowers. I rubbed
and petted him and allowed him to stay
and enjoy the bouquet with me.

After the lady had gone, I took him in
my arms and went out to the clerk. Lov-
ing animals as I do, I was much interested,
and asked him if the hotel really had a
cat that had the privilege of the house, a
most unusual thing.

He said, “Well, Mrs. Jones, I will tell you
the story of this cat. About seven years
ago, one of the bell-boys saw a small kitten
slip in at the revolving door, and as he
didn’t seem inclined to go out, the boy
gently pushed him downstairs thinking we
would not allow him on this ﬂoor. But the
little kitten did not seem at all a base—
ment kit, for he was sure to come up when-
ever he could possibly get the chance.

He would go along to the dining-room
and insist on making friends with the head-
waiter. As he grew a little older he grew
bolder, and persisted in following the head-
waiter whenever that dignitary ushered
a person or party into the dining-room. It
was very funny and cunning to see the
cat walk deliberately in with the waiter, as
if he were an assistant; then back to the
door until another person wanted atten-
tion.

He ﬁnally was accepted as assistant
head waiter, and was much petted and ad-
mired by everyone. He seemed to know in-
stinctively the time for serving, and was
always at the door waiting. The story has
been, and is told far and near, of our
assistant cat, that has never for years
been off duty, even for a day.

Now everything went well with our much
beloved Tom, until one day a very richly
gowned, aristocratic look-
ing lady sailed into the
dining room. After she
had been seated by the
head-waiter she raised her
head haughtily, adjusted
her lorgnette and squinted.

“ ‘Do you mean to say,’
she asked, ‘that that is
really a cat that has fol-
lowed us in? If so, have
him removed at once.’ The
waiter told her that it was
a cat, and that he was the
pet of the hotel, saying,
‘He follows me always,
and thinks he is the assist-
ant waiter, I guess.’

“ ‘Really, call the pro-

Page 1'73

 

CATS DO HAVE PERSONALITY

 

prietor.’

“The proprietor came in and the lady in-
formed him that she had taken one of his
best suites for a month, ‘but, if that cat
isn’t removed, I shall cancel the arrange-
ment. It’s preposterous!’

“ ‘Very well, Madame, we surely can’t dis-
charge our assistant. In these times of
depression, he might not ﬁnd another hotel
where he would be treated so kindly and
loved so well, and you, I know, can ﬁnd
many suites as good as ours. I am very
sorry, but I think we will have to keep
the cat’.”

Two Kittens

The kittens of our household now are two——
Where late a solitary kitten played;
“Horsefeathers” is the boy; less fair to

'view
But stronger than the dainty feline maid
His twin, “Miss Applesauce.” Dear imps

in fur—
With sudden sidewise leaps at feigned
alarms
They race, they roll, then cuddle down to
purr

And fall asleep in one another’s arms.
These do not think in terms of “yours” and
‘(mine’)_
Each lends a tongue to wash the others
face;
As one they mew, right comradely they
dine
From one deep dish. Such friendliness,
pure grace
And joy in living, none may know before
He has two kittens tumbling round his floor.

ARTHUR GUITERMAN in New York Times

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

Feb.1934

What Our Language Owes
to the Animals

ALICE B. WILLIAMSON

NIMALS may not be able to talk, but
A they have had a considerable inﬂuence
on the English language. Let us examine
a few of the expressions derived from ani-
mal traits.

Horse sense indicates good sense that
ought to be common sense but too often is
not! A dark horse in politics is an unknown
or unforeseen competitor, and its connection
with racing needs no explanation. Anything
on a larger or more intense scale than the
ordinary object seems to be attributed to
the horse, from horse chestnut, where size
is meant, to horse radish, where it is pun-
gency that is increased. Horse-power is a
term used glibly in regard to machinery,
where it is the unit of the rate of work, by
thousands who have probably seen very few
horses in their live-s. Possibly some of them
do not know that one horse-power means
the equivalent of the number of pounds
lifted one foot high in one minute by a
horse. The English dray—horses observed in
this connection worked continuously on a
hoist at the rate of 22,000 foot pounds per
minute. This ﬁgure was arbitrarily in-
creased by one-half, and 33,000 foot pounds
per minute has been the standard eve-r
since. Thus the horse, now largely dis-
placed in a mechanical world, may be said
to have left his hoof-prints on its termin-
ology.

Our sle-ekly furred and graceful friend,
the house cat, has given us the nature words
catkin, pussy-willow, and cat-tail. Less
pleasant is the whip with knotted cords
called cat-o’-nine-tails. A cat’s paw is a
person used as a tool or dupe, especially for
discreditable work, from the fable of the
monkey that persuaded the cat to use her
paw to draw chestnuts from the ﬁre for him.

The dog has contributed many pictur-
esque terms. To dog a person is to pursue
him persistently, not, however, faithfully as
a dog follows his master, but relentlessly
or importunately: synonymous with this is
to hound. Dog days, the intense heat of
which was once supposed to drive dogs mad,
are now counted as the period from July 3
to August 11, and the expression really
comes from the fact that the rising of
Sirius, the dog-star, coincides about that
time with the rising of the Sun. A yellow
dog, that is, a mongrel—whose manners are
often bad—is a mean or malicious person.
Many plants are named from some fancied
resemblance to the teeth or ears of the
canine, but it is not to be construed from
this that the dogwood’s name has any con-
nection with its bark!

Many miscellaneous instances could be
cited. We characterize insincere grief as
crocodile tears because the crocodile was
once reputed to weep over the victims he
crunched. Anything incredible is ﬁshy,
from the unbelievable ﬁsh story! As the
ferret searches out his prey so we ferret
out an object, and a whale of a good time
is understood by all Americans as a ﬁne,
large time.

If animals must be killed for food we owe
it to them to see that they are rendered un-
conscious by some sure method of stunning
before the use of the knife.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

The Indians and Their
Animals

EDITHA L. WATSON

LL living beings,” says the northeast-
ern Eskimo, “have the faculty of soul,
but especially the birds.”

The Eskimos were not alone in their rev-
erence of birds. The California Indians
worshiped the condor, and two great black
crows were objects of reverence to the na-
tives of Catalina Island. The Pima say that
their Ancient Ones were the offspring of
an enormous eagle. Turkeys were kept by
the Pueblos, not to eat, but for the use of
their feathers in ceremonies.

Animals were never “just game” to the
Indian tribes of America. They were al-
most-human creatures with which men
could speak at times, and who gave aid and
advice when properly approached. Even
insects were considered as having human
faculties. A Tewa story tells of ants which
were holding a dance. The Spider Woman
is a powerful “fairy” creature in Pueblo
stories.

Beavers, the Flathead people say, are
a fallen race of Indians. The San Diego
Indians believe that all large game is in-
habited by souls who died ages ago. Cer-
tain southwestern tribes have a legend that
some of their ancestors fell into the water
and became ﬁsh. The lion and the bear
were the great animal leaders in Pueblo
lore.

Not only regarded as semi-deities or
food, animals and birds were kept as pets
by many tribes. The Congaree of North
Carolina caught young storks and cranes
before they were, able to ﬂy, and tamed
them. A tame crane six feet high is men-
tioned in accounts of this tribe. The Nar-
ragansetts kept hawks, trained to scare
small birds from their ﬁelds. The Minitaree
kept owls in their lodges—but the Pueblos
consider owls’ feathers as symbols of black
magic.

Columbus found domestic geese like
those of Europe on the island of Guadeloupe.

Certain tribes in South Carolina even
domesticated the deer. Bears, marmots,

 

PORCUPINE PHOTOGRAPHED IN ALBERTA

Page 29

foxes, and such creatures were caught when
young and kept as pets, caressed like dogs
as long as they remained tame.
. The Mexican people, of greater civiliza-
tion than the northern tribes, also appre—
c1ated animals. Tapir remains, buried as
sacred animals, have been found. A coyote-
llke animal was buried with vases and
bronze bells in a tomb of stone slabs. Mon-
tezuma maintained a zoo which was the
wonder of his time, and paid veterinary
surgeons to look after the health of the
animals conﬁned there.

A six-year-old Helena, Montana, boy of-
fered to whip the whole police department
of that city when he was brought before the-
police chief after his dog had been taken to

the pound. The chief decided to turn the
dog loose.

A Woodlands’ Pincushion

w. J. BANKS, B.A.
H IS most ardent admirer would scarcely
venture to call Prickly either clever or
handsome. His ungainly body, shufﬂing
along on stubby legs, his dullish eye and
unlovely snout never won a woodlands
beauty contest. And he appears to be one
of the stupidest of rodents. Yet there is a
lot to admire about the porcupine, who is
content to feed on leaves and bark, and
“live and let live” in the woods, but who can
administer such terriﬁc punishment to
greedy ﬂesh-eaters who attempt to molest
him.

A mouthful of quills has brought death,
either from starvation or blood poisoning,
to powerful bears and panthers, to say noth-
ing of such smaller fry as dogs, wolves,
foxes and Wildcats. The quills or spines,
with their myriad tiny barbs, work deeper
and deeper into the victim’s ﬂesh, and if he
eventually recovers, it is after suffering such
as only wild folk can know and bear in
silence. A sadder and a wiser beast, he will
never molest Prickly again.

It is needless now to say that the porcu-
pine cannot throw quills, though at one time
that yarn was ﬁrmly and widely believed.
So man is in no dan-
ger from this animated
pincushion. I n d e e d
Porky, at great expense
to himself, has saved
the lives of many
humans. For, if lost
in the woods, supplies
and ammunition gone,
clumsy man can catch
and kill slow and stu-
pid Porky, the only
wild thing too dull-
witted to ﬂee even if
he could. So the game
laws are careful to give
the porcupine constant
protection. It is almost
inconceivable to the na-
ture lover that anyone
would be so lacking in
sportsmanship as to
kill a porcupine except
for self-preservation,
yet such is the nature
of man that even
Prickly has to have
legal assistance.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page ’78
@112 Iﬁanh nf merry

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary
E. A. MARYOTT, State Organizer

PLEDGE

I will try to be kind to all living creatures and
try to protect them from cruel usage.

The American Humane Education Society will send
to every person who forms a Band of Mercy of thirty
members, and sends the name chosen for the Band and
the name and post-ofﬁce address of the president who
has been duly elected, special Band of Mercy literature
and a gilt badge for the president.

See inside front cover for prices of literature and
Band of Mercy supplies.

NEW BANDS OF MERCY

Eight hundred and thirty-nine new Bands
of mercy were reported during March. Of
these, 236 were in Illinois, 181 in Massa-
chusetts, 155 in Texas, 79 in Rhode Island,
56 in New Hampshire, 47 in Virginia, 33 in
Florida, 19 in Pennsylvania, 18 in Georgia,
seven in Tennessee, four in New York, and
one each in Alabama, Minnesota, Missis-
sippi, and New Jersey.

Total number Bands of Mercy organized
by Parent American Society, 200,974.

Contest for Chicago Pupils

HROUGH the efforts of Mrs. Jennie R.

Toomim, ﬁeld representative of the
American Humane Education Society of
Boston, who has been lecturing on humane
education in the schools of Chicago for the
last three years, and the co-operation of the
Illinois Humane Society of Chicago which,
through Secretary George A. H. Scott, con-
tributed $100 in cash prizes, a Be Kind to
Animals contest was conducted through the
city newspapers for pupils from the fourth
to eighth grades in public and parochial
schools.

The form of the contest was a story or
essay not to exceed 200 words and to be
signed by the class teacher or principal.
Sixty-seven cash prizes were offered as fol-
lows: One (ﬁrst) of $10, one (second) of
$5, ﬁve (third) of $3 each, ten (fourth) of $2
each, and ﬁfty (ﬁfth) of $1 each. The con-
test closed April 9. Awards were made dur-
ing Be Kind to Animals Week, April 16-21.

“Buddy”

My voice is raised in sad lament,
My head in sorrow low is bent.
“Buddy,” my cat, has passed away—
A comrade true of many a day.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Tortoise Has N0ve1 Home
R. DBWITT MILLER

SWALD” has a family tree that goes

back 180,000,000 years, but he is prob-
ably the ﬁrst member of the tortoise family
to have his own specially constructed house
with a sliding door, a water-proof roof, and
a sunny exposure.

The American land tortoise is the ideal
depression pet. The original cost is nom-
inal, or nothing at all if you happen to live
within reach of any of the great South-
western deserts. The replacement cost is
exceptionally low as the reptiles will out-
live several masters. In Oswald’s case the
food bill consists of the price of a head of
lettuce or an ear of corn daily during the
summer. For ﬁve months of the year he is
in hibernation and eats nothing.

When I ﬁrst acquired Oswald as a
Christmas joke the problem arose of how
to keep him from wandering off. This was
solved by boring a small hole in the turned-
out ﬂange of his shell just above one of his
rear legs. The shell, or carapace, is com-
posed of a substance similar to the human
ﬁnger nail, and the boring operation is not
painful. A short piece of steel wire was
fastened into the hole and attached to 50
feet of clothesline. Oswald measures 10 by
7 inches so the weight of that length of
rope is not too great. The traction of a
tortoise when he wants to go somewhere
would amaze and instruct a tractor designer.

The housing problem was solved by con-
structing a house resembling an airplane
hangar. A slanting run-way enables the
occupant to reach the doorway which is
two inches above the ground. This type of
construction keeps the ﬂoor from becoming
damp in wet weather. Tortoises are very
susceptible‘to cold and damp. They develop
symptoms similar to the common cold and
die within a short time.

Tortoises are very particular and indi-
vidualistic in their selection of food. One I
had for a time would eat nothing but
freshly picked dandelions. Oswald likes
fresh lettuce. Occasionally when his daily
ration is late he will eat grass or a stray
worm. His favorite dish, however, is fresh
corn. This must be cut from the cob as his
teeth are not equal to biting it off. The
grains are split down the center to make
them easier to handle. I have never seen
him drink anything. Whether he does this
in private from the water dish provided, or

 

“OSWALD” EMERGING FROM HOUSE AND STARTING DOWN THE
RUNWAY FOR AN AFTERNOON WALK

May, 1981;

Squirrels and Squash Seeds

N DIVIDUAL squirrels show a great fond-
ness for squash seeds, especially when
these have been well dried and “toasted,” and
their methods of attack on a string of them
are very entertaining to watch. They will

 

“SHALL I TRY ONE?”

sometimes shell out the meats, seed by seed,
while leaving the chain intact with a hole
in each shell through which they have ex-
tracted the kernel.

DOROTHY A. BALDWIN

 

whether he receives sufﬁcient liquid from
his vegetable diet, I have never discovered.

For at least ﬁve months of the year tor-
toises hibernate. In their natiVe state of
desert life they dig a burrow corresponding
roughly to the shape of their bodies. Any
warm dry spot is suitable, however... A
woman in San Diego, California, who has
a number of the reptiles, packs them in a
barrel for the winter. The tortoises are
laid one on top of another with layers of
felt between. Oswald occupies a place be-
neath the water heater in the basement and
will not be lured to- any other winter
quarters.

Geologically the tortoise family is pos-
sibly the oldest of any reptile: or mammal
living today. It goes back to the early
Mesozoic period, 180,000,000 years ago.
According to the law of the survival of the
ﬁttest the tortoise must be rather well
designed.

A tortoise can produce three separate
noises. It hisses when startled or displeased.
A low grunting sound is sometimes made,
and a cluck similar to that of a hen seems
to express pleasure. A standard work on
reptiles states that the cluck is given only
in the mating season, but Oswald will cluck
at any time except when in hibernation.-

Grotesque and weird in appearance, tor-
toises have often been worshipped by primi-
tive peoples. In many parts of India they
are still held sacred and given food and
protection. A surprisingly large number of
the creatures are kept as pets.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 102
On Finding a Tortoise Shell

ELSIE WHEELER

I found your little empty house,

You lovely, lonely, harmless thing.

A round hole through the top was proof
Of death by heartless, sheer intent.

No woodland foe would treat you so;
Then how could human hand lift stone
’Gainst innocence without defense?

'Was it, perhaps, a drink you sought

At the clear stream down the ravine?

The footpath ran too close just there

And you were spied, used as a mark.

The blunt nerves quivered long . . . and

then . . .

You died. Alone? Or did some snail
Crawl close to oﬂer sympathy?

As I looked down, I was constrained
To think that he who took your life
Would meet you once again some day.

Literature’s Debt to Animals
CARROLL VAN COURT

F we could take an accurate census of

how many famous writers have received
either inspiration or help from their pet
animals in their art, I believe we would be
surprised.

For instance, it is said that Balzac used
to like to have his big black cat on his
desk before he began writing his great
books. No doubt the presence of his cat
helped a lot, as he seemed to more or less
depend upon it.

Also, it is said that Booth Tarkington
wants his dog near his feet before he be-
gins to write. Another literary assistant!

And how many good dog stories have we
had from Mr. Albert Payson Terhune, who
gets most of his material from dogs.

Mr. Harry Carr, famous column conduc-
tor of The Los Angeles Times, is a great
lover of dogs, and often tells a funny joke
about his pets in his column, as does Lee
Shippey in the same paper, who calls his
comical pup a Neardale!

O. O. McIntyre is a famous dog lover,
and often quotes his Boston bull.

This very morning (April 17, 1934), I
ﬁnd in The Los Angeles Times, one of those
rare picturesof Walt Mason, who writes a
poem every day, and on his lap is a little
black dog, which has furnished many an
idea for the proliﬁc versiﬁer, whose work
appears in many papers daily.

And last Sunday, over the radio, I heard
a marvelous dog story that is an inspira-
tion to all dog lovers. I think the title was
“Billy Wiggs;” at any rate, it was by
Samuel Hopkins Adams, one of my favorite
living authors, who wrote what I think is
the best newspaper story ever written, “The
Clarion.” And so it goes, down through
great authors, then the poets, as witness
Keats with his “Ode to a Nightingale,” and
Shelley’s “To a Skylark.”

In fact, great men in all walks of life
have been noted also for their love of ani-
mals, as the stories of their lives tell us,
and we can ﬁnd much evidence that great
literature owes a real debt to pet animals.

Remember the Mass. Society for the Pre-
vention of Cruelty to Animals in your will.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

July, 1931;

Canada’s Buffalo Increase
JAMES MONTGOMERY

ing new grazing ground this year as

the surplus of Canada’s ever increasing
buffalo herds at Wainwright, Alberta, are
moved northward to the larger reserve in the
North West Territories. By train and boat
during the autumn months, the Canadian
government sends the overﬂow of young

S BOUT one thousand buffalo are ﬁnd-

 

which is more accustomed to seeing pros—
pectors and ﬁnanciers, smells of buffalo while
ﬂat-bottom river barges are loaded with the
rail-traveling bisons. Then the ﬂotilla starts
off on the Athabasca‘River to Lake Atha-
basca and along the Slave River to Fort
Smith, capital of the North West Terri-
tories. Now the buffalo are practically in

 

THERE ARE 6,000 BUFFALO IN THE MAIN HERD ON THE 100,000-ACRE
PRESERVE AT WAINWRIGHT, ALBERTA

buﬁalo more than a thousand miles north-
ward to the 17,300 square-mile park where
the once nearly extinct species of North
American big game has plenty of room to
expand.

When some twenty-ﬁve years ago the
Canadian government bought the last re-
maining herd of buffalo, 709 animals, no
one could foresee that within so few years
of the almost complete disappearance of the
American bison, it would be necessary to
ship surplus animals to a new and larger
preserve. Now there are so many buffalo
on the government’s game preserves that if
left alone they would soon breed to- numbers
similar to those before the coming of the
white man. Once they dotted the plains of
the west from Mexico to Great Slave Lake
in millions. Now it is estimated that up-
wards of 20,000 are under the care of gov-
ernment game wardens.

Wainwright, a small stop on the trans-
continental railway, has the distinction of
being the only place on the continent where
there is an annual buffalo stampede. The
thunder of six thousand buffalo on the run
penetrates for miles around, the dust hangs
thick above. Egged on by hard riding cow-
boys, the yearlings and two-year olds are
driven into corrals where other cowboys
stand ready to- brand the shaggy animals
with a big W, to denote their origin at the
Wainwright preserve.

From the corrals it is not far to the
loading platform, and so into the railway
cars which lead the buffalo on the ﬁrst stage
of their forced migration to new grazing
grounds. Up the plank the bisons are
shoved, led or coaxed, and as one car is ﬁlled
another draws up to the platform, till a
string of cattle cars loaded with snorting
buffalo is ready to pull out from the station
to the end of the railway at Waterways,
half way to the new stamping-grounds.

Here the unloading in corrals of untrim-
med logs takes place, and the frontier post,

their new territory. Rangers lead them to
the stamping-ground where already some
15,000 buffalo have preceded them. Ranger
cabins, trails and telephones throughout the
vast preserve, the largest on the continent,
keep the government informed as to how
the new buffalo mix with the old inhabi-
tants of the region.

The large herds of buffalo have their be—
ginning in a quartet of calves a young In-
dian brave brought home as a peace—offering
to his father-in-law, according to the now
accepted theory where the Canadian gov-
ernment’s ﬁrst herd came from. Those four
calves were brought to the father-in-law on
the Flathead Reservation in Montana in
1873. They grew and bred till soon there
was a small herd. Michael Pablo, a Mexi-
can, bought ten of the animals for $2,500.
They were by now scarce, having nearly all
been killed off for their robes during the
settlement of the plains. Pablo kept his ten
shaggy buffalo till they grew to 709, when
he sold them to the Canadian government
for the same price per head he had paid,
$250. That was after he had offered them
for sale to- the United States government.

Now the large herds which have grown
from this small beginning supply most of
the buffalo which are found in zoological
gardens the world over, for every year Can-
ada has requests for some of these animals
from distant countries. In addition, these
animals supply robes and coats for the
mounted police, and steaks and pemmican
for northern travelers.

At Wainwright the buffalo graze on the
100,000-acre preserve in summer, along with
2,500 deer, 1,000 elk, moose and antelopes.
In winter time the buffalo graze as best
they can when the snow is not too heavy
and, if it is too heavy, there is a large ton-
nage of hay available, grown on the pre—
serve. Lakes dot the acreage so that the
buffalo roams in his natural surroundings,
and can cool off in the hot weather.




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 126
Eh» 'iﬁanh nf ﬂﬁrrtg

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

E. A. MARYOTT, State Organizer
PLEDGE

I will try to be kind to all living creatures and
try to protect them from cruel usage.

h American Humane Education Soc1ety Wlll send
torIeVZry person who forms a Band of Mercy of thirty
members, and sends the name chosen for the _Band and
the name and post-ofﬁce address of the pres1dent who
has been duly elected, special Band of Mercy literature

nd a ilt badge for the president. .
a See ignside front cover for prices of literature and

Band of Mercy supplies.

NEW BANDS OF MERCY

Five hundred and ﬁfty-one new Bands of
Mercy were reported during June. Of these,
220 were in Illinois, 115 in Massachusetts,
94 in Rhode Island, '72 in New Hampshlre,
38 in Georgia, nine in Newfoundland, and
one each in California, Colorado and New

York.

Total number Bands of Mercy organized
by Parent American Society, 203,136

The Koalas of Australia

ALICE PARK

USTRALIA contains the original ani-
mals of which the Teddy bear toys are
imitations. Many people think the toys are
only toys and are greatly surprised to dis—
cover the koala bears, natives of Austraha.
They are not true bears but are marsupials.
In a reservation near Sydney, they hve 1n
the happy surroundings of many acres, free
to roam and to climb the trees. There are
no cages, and the place is not a zoo. Two
men are taking great pains to preserve What
are left of the koalas. .
There are about 70 koalas, every one With
a name, every one an individual pet of the
seven men who take care of them and keep
them provided with the leaves they requlre
for food. They have known only kind treat-
ment all their lives and are tamer than
kittens. Their size is somewhat larger than
that of cats, with fuzzy coats and affec-
tionate manners. They prefer sitting in the
forks of trees, but are entirely willing to be
handled by tourists. They give a great deal
of pleasure to visitors. “Adorable” is only
one of the adjectives applied to them. They
are so amusing to look at, that I smile as I
write about them, and smile again each time
I discover again a picture of them among
my papers. Kindness to koala bears has re-
sulted in much pleasure for many people,
as well as comfort for the little animals.

 

A DROLL AND DELIGHTFUL PET

OUR DUMB ANIMAL-S

Guinea Pigs Teach Kindness
CLELLAN PRIEST

IFTEEN guinea pigs went to school
in Springﬁeld last winter but they went
to teach rather than to learn. They taught
the great lesson of kindness to animals to
the children in Grades 1, 2 and 3, and the
results, according to Miss Dorothea Clark,

 

nature study supervisor for the Springﬁeld
public school system, were pleasingly evi-
dent from the ﬁrst.

The children literally took their little ani-
mal guests to their hearts and vied with
each other in bringing tid—bits, sharing
apples and caring for their tiny visitors.
The guinea-pig’s comfortable home, built by
pupils in the manual training classes, occu-
pied a prominent place in the class—room.

The boys and girls were encouraged to
watch the animal closely, to draw him, to
write about him, and in that way they came
to think about him and the obligations boys
and girls owe in care for their animal com—
panions.

Both Miss Clark and the teachers who
assisted in this unique educational project
are conﬁdent that many children thus ac—
quired a new viewpoint of animals, seeing
them as something to be cared for and cher-
ished, rather than chased and teased.

Over a period of years the Springﬁeld
schools have sought to interest students in
the care and study of animals through the
presence of pets as guests in the class-rooms.
There have been rabbits, kittens, small
dogs, white mice, turtles and almost every
other kind of childhood pet one can imagine
on this list of animal visitors. But they
brought complications. There was always
the sense of personality resulting from child
ownership of the pet, and the larger animals
are not always easily handled with a large
class.

Then the Park Department came forward
with the offer of a loan of guinea pigs.
The manual training classes promptly built
simple but practical wire-netted boxes, and
Miss Clark planned for their distribution.
Allocation was not a simple problem for the
thirty-two schools to be reached. Miss Clark
prepared a schedule under which the ﬁfteen
gulnea pigs available were to tour Grades
1, 2 and 3, spending two weeks in each

 

Aug. 1931;

class-room. The teachers assumed the re—
sponsibility of transferring the little ani-
mals from one room to another and between
buildings.

And so it came about that the Park De—
partment’s guinea pigs became better teach-
ers than even Miss Clark had hoped for.

John Burroughs’ Little
Helpers

AESTELLE P. ME‘SSINGER

VERYONE knows of the love which

John Burroughs had for birds and
ﬂowers, but few, perhaps, of his intense love
for dogs and the important part they played
in his work as a naturalist. It is said that
nothing in nature could touch him so deeply
as they. True it is that dogs were his con-
stant companions from early boyhood on
throughout his long and famous career.

On the Burroughs’ Dairy Farm in John’s
childhood, all the dogs as they succeeded one
another were named “Cuff.” John would al-
ways call Cuﬁ and together they would do
the tasks assigned to him. Perhaps it would
be to hunt a stray sheep in the mountains
or pick stones. At other times they were
free to take long jaunts across the meadows
and into the wood—a thing they both loved
to do. The dog would run ahead, snifﬁng
and ferreting out the things in nature which
the boy already loved to- observe and study.
Maybe it would be a woodchuck, a squirrel,
or a bird.

In the years that followed his life on the
farm, there were many dogs to share the
work of the naturalist, but perhaps his most
favorite ones were “Rab,” “Rosemary,”
“Laddie” and “Lark.” As each one passed
from his life, which, strange to say, nearly
always happened in a most tragic way, he
felt that they could never be replaced. But
soon another would ﬁnd its way to his heart
and trudge along by his side; one with a dif-
ferent personality, but none the less lovable.

John Burroughs gives a lot of credit for
his work to his dogs. In speaking of the
“Idyl of the Honey Bee” and “Notes of a
Walker,” he says, “They are as much my
dog Lark’s as my own.” This is easily under-
stood when we read a description of one of
their trips, which was typical of those taken
with all his dogs: “Lark and I went on a
long walk in the woods today and found the
nests of a robin, a kingbird, a bush sparrow,
a hawk and a gray squirrel, and started a
rabbit from her form. Besides Lark had a
tussel with a mink and the mink got away.
. . .All the landscapes for miles and miles
around we have read over and over as two
boys read a story book. No forest or nook
or retreat but knew us many times.” In the
winter the trips continued, often through
snow knee-deep. Then it would be necessary
for the master to carry the dog on his shoul-
der, for Lark was a little fellow.

One of the things which John Burroughs
envied in dogs is their adventurous spirit.
They are “always ready to go, full of fun
and holiday spirit, and always searching for
some-thing new.” He found them such desir-
able companions, too, because when he
wished to be silent they would not disturb
him, and at other times, they were inter-
ested in whatever he did.

“The most wonderful thing about a dog,”
says Burroughs, “is not his intelligence, but
his capacity for loving. The more you love
your dog, the more he will love you.”

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 150

family. Woodpeckers, too, frequently pro-
vide the necessary excavations for the mar-
ten home.

Like a cat, the marten shuns water, and
perhaps with some reason, for his fur seems
to lose its lovely lustre when wet. He will
at times stay hungry in his den rather than
come out in search of sustenance on a wet
day. Though he favors the seclusion of
shade, the marten also likes the occasional
sun bath, and has been observed stretched
out on a high limb in the warming rays.
He hunts by day to some extent at least,
and doubtless also prowls about by night.
But when the sun is low, in the morning
and evening, is evidently his favorite hunt-
ing time.

Three or four kittens are usually in the
marten’s litter which is born in April,
though as many as seven babies have been
found. Helpless and blind for three or four
weeks, the youngsters have to be carefully
guarded by the watchful mother for some
time.

EDITOR’S NOTE: The pine marten is now very rare
in this country. So beautiful and hence so much in
demand was its fur, which is almost as ﬁne as sable,
that it has been hunted and killed almost to the point
of extinction.

Calculation shows that the total radiation
which pours out from the sun every second
has a weight of 4,000,000 tons. That is, the
sun must constantly be losing weight at the
rate of 4,000,000 tons a second. In spite of
that, it is estimated that the sun still will
last us about 15,000,000,000,000 years.

Blessings on Our Woods

ARTHUR GUITERMAN in New York Herald Tribune

Blest be our woods of hemlock, maple, pine,

Balsam and birch, dear Lord, our woods and
Thine!

Blest be their bubbling springs, their rippled
lakes,

Their ponds, and every laughing brook that
makes

Rainbows and foam and crystal homes for
trout;

Blest be the trails that wander in and out

Among gray boulders drowned in soft green
seas

Of velvet moss! 0h, blest be all of these!

Blest be the woods and they that dwell
therein,

The scolding squirrel and his gentler kin,

The friendly chipmunk and the timid hare;

Blest be the graceful mink, the shambling

bear,

The beaver on his dam, the drumming
grouse,

The hawk that loves the sky, the white-foot
mouse,

The antlered buck that paces, proud and tall,

With does and dappled fawn, blest be they
all!

Lord, bless the woods for perfect loveliness.

For balm. that heals the soul in care and
stress!

Keep them forever fragrant, cool and sweet!

From thunderbolt and ﬂame, from gale and

sleet,

From. avalanche, from torrent, drought and
blight,

From all that is unclean, from ruthless
might

That gives to desolation valley, glen
And mountainside, God bless our woods!
Amen!

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Oct. 1934

Cruel Moose Calling

EARLE W. GAGE

in the north woods. The hardwood

ridges are a riot of color. The yellow
of birch and alder is relieved here and there
by the deep, rich green of pine, spruce and
balsam, plentifully dotted with the vivid
red of the frost-crimsoned maples.

Another change, not the least interesting
to lovers of wild life, is also taking place.
The moose, that lordly monarch of the
American forest, may be heard bellowing
his hoarse challenge far and wide. Through
the ﬂaming red aisles of the great forests
there reverberates the call. This is the
mating season. The massive antlers of the
bull moose are hard and glistening; the “vel-
vet” that protected them from injury all
summer, during their growth, has been
rubbed off against pliant birch trees and
willow bushes. Now, attired in his full war
regalia, the bull moose answers the mating
call.

Many hunters now follow the most un—
sportsmanship mode of hunting moose.
Taking advantage of nature’s instinct,
they imitate the mate’s cry to lure the bull
moose to them to become an easy target
for high-powered riﬂes. In most sections

©CTOBER is a most interesting month

of northern forests, from mid-September,

to mid-December is the season for moose
calling, the greater part of the slaughter
occurring in October and early November.
“Still hunting,” or stalking, in which the
hunter is obliged to match wits with the
lordly moose, follow this season. To the
true sportsman, this form of hunting has
greatest appeal, and were it followed ex—
clusively, there would not today exist the
slightest fear that the moose would be ex-
terminated.

The terrible toll which cruel calling ex—
acts, and has taken in past decades, is
easily reﬂected by the fact that such well-
known moose districts as Nova Scotia and
New Brunswick, fearing the ﬁnish of their
excellent, large moose herds, have been

HIS MASSIVE ANTLERS ARE HARD AND

GLISTENING

 

obliged to effect restrictions. Only a little
while ago the advertising concerns pro-
claimed to the world that these virgin for-
ests boasted so many moose that there was
not the slightest fear of their numbers
being depleted; they boasted that more
moose were slaughtered each autumn in
Canada than now remained in the entire
United States. They urged, invited and
pleaded with blood-thirsty hunters from all
quarters to come and enjoy the rare thrill
of watching a bull moose answer his last
call! So many accepted the invitation that
in a few short seasons, the terrible death
toll resulted in the needless slaughter of
thousands of the» rarest specimens, and
doom was sounded, were these practices
permitted to- continue. Even the world’s
ﬁnest wild life conservation program could
not avert disaster to the moose, were the
wholesale system of fraudulent calling al-
lowed a full season.

Thus, the moose season was shortened in
order “to conserve native stocks.” Shoot-
ing of cow moose, by any form of hunting,
is absolutely prohibited. Calf moose are
protected under three years of age and
with less than six points on the antlers.
The previous restriction was ten points.
Only one bull moose is allowed per hunter.
It is to be hoped that the friends of wild
life have seen the handwriting on the wall
soon enough to preserve this, one of the
last remnants of big game in North
America. Blood-thirsty hunters, urged by
money-mad tourist agencies, have about
terminated the existence of the once ﬁne
herds in Maine and other parts of our own
forests. Canada, proﬁting by our own sad
experience, may well effect immediate reg—
ulations to safeguard the lordly moose. The
most effective method would be to terminate
moose calling and other cowardly and cruel
methods, which may insure the hunter a
trophy, of which he can feel very proud,
but which gives the moose not one chance
in a thousand of avert-
ing untimely death.

In the name of real
sportsmanship, let us
have a permanent and
humane administration
of the remaining moose
in American forests.

Space is emptier than
anything we can imag-
ine. Leave only three
wasps alive in the whole
of Europe and the air
of Europe will still be

more crowded with
wasps than space is
with stars.

Our readers are urged
to clip from “Our Dumb
Animals” various arti-
cles and request their
local editors to repub-
lish. Copies so mutilated
will be made good by
us upon application.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 171;

@112 fiend! nf mrrrg

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

E. A. MARYOTT, State Organizer
PLEDGE

I will try to be kind to all living creatures and
try to protect them from cruel usage.

The American Humane Education Society will send
to every person who forms a Band of Mercy of thirty
members, and sends the name chosen for the Band and
the name and post—ofﬁce address of the president who
has been duly elected, special Band of Mercy literature
and a gilt badge for the president.

See inside front cover for prices of literature and
Band of Mercy supplies. .

NEW BANDS OF MERCY

One hundred and sixteen new Bands of
Mercy were reported during September.
Of these, 33 were in New Hampshire, 32
in Florida, 23 in Virginia, seven in Rhode
Island, ﬁve each in New York, Pennsylvania
and Vermont, two each in Massachusetts
and Spanish Honduras, and one each in
Georgia and Mississippi.

Total number Bands of Mercy organized
by Parent American Society, 203,620.

Chicka D. D.

MRS. H. A. DANNECKER

Preacher of good-will and cheer
When summer days have flown,

You’ll never know how very near
And dear to me you’ve grown.

And since to serve a minister
Is every host’s delight,

I have prepared your dinner here;
The gleaming snow so white

Shall be your fairy-woven cloth,
This stump shall be your table;

So feast, you and your lady both,
As much as you are able.

Poor little foal of an oppressed race,

I love the languid patience of thy face

And oft with gentle hand I give thee bread

And clap thy ragged coat, and pat thy head.
S. T. COLERIDGE

 

tea. 7

DOROTHY HELPED CATCH THE
PIGS FOR THEIR FIRST PICTURE

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Helio Ruiz and His Mercy
Guards

SHELBY E. SOUTHARD

LTHOUGH press reports of the re-
A cent revolutions in Cuba may have
caused us to think that human life itself
was very cheap in that turbulent little
island, the impression is a false one and
even in her most hectic days the disturb—
ances are mostly on the political checker-
board. Conditions are so favorable that
Cuba now has a well—organized and highly
efﬁcient society to combat cruelties to an-
imals.

A young man in Cienfuegos, Helio Ruiz
Madrigal, a bank clerk, was moved to foster
this project when he saw all around him
the growing disregard of his people for the
lives and feelings of animals. In his home
town, he interested his young friends in a
society to be called Mercy Guards. They
dedicated themselves to stamping out cruel-
ties and thoughtlessness wherever they
came across them. It was purely local at
ﬁrst, but Ruiz wrote many letters to friends
and the spirit of his ﬁne undertaking has
spread in many forms all over the island.

The Mercy Guards have as their bitter—
est ﬁght their attempt to banish cock-ﬁghts.
Since cock-pits are to be found in great
numbers even in the smallest hamlet, and
since many men make their living in no
other way, the practice will be a hard one
to ﬁght. The people of the island have
come to look on it as an approved sport,
and because it has been present so long
among them it is harder for them to see
the gross inhumanity and barbarism the
diversion causes. So the Mercy Guards
have chosen the long slow way of under-
mining the popularity of cock—ﬁghts. This
way is by educating Cuba’s people to see
that there is something despicable and un-
worthy about this unwhole-some amusement
which seeks to make capital and sport of
defenseless fowls.

They are careful in their ﬁght not to
make themselves offensive by a rabid sup-
port of what they seek. But in schools,
public meetings, the press, and even in their
own family circle, they never miss the
chance to put in a telling blow against
this evil. By always being courteous, and
not leaving themselves open to ridicule ——
in short, by being gentlemen—they have
robbed the powerful interests which oppose
them of their only way of striking back.
These interests, which make great proﬁt
off the sport, cannot poke fun at the young
men for they have not left themselves vul-
nerable. It is a level-headed, dispassionate,
very intent ﬁght that they are waging.
“And we are likely to win,” Senor Ruiz
told me, smilingly, when I talked with him
not long ago.

They do not conﬁne their activities to
cock-ﬁghts. The practice of chaining bril—
liantly—colored birds to perches inside road-
side lunchrooms or near the door to attract
the trade has brought forth opposition. In
some cities the practice has been banned
by law as a result of their ﬁght, and their
gains in this particular have been of a
substantial nature.

I asked Senor Ruiz: “Do you think that
Cubans really enjoy cock-ﬁghts?”

Nov. 1931;

The dark eyes in his distinctly Latin face
twinkled kindly as he replied: “There is
no doubt in my mind that they do get a
certain sort of pleasure from cock-ﬁghts,
but think, what a ﬁner, sweeter pleasure
we are getting from curbing this thing! It
is sweet to us for we are consciously de-
fending some of God’s insigniﬁcant ones.”
As the founder of the Mercy Guards spoke,
his clear-eyed honesty gave added weight
to his words. I came away from him know—
ing that I had met a prince of a fellow
who had taken on a big and thankless
task that he was handling well.

A .Bumblebees’ Home

MADGE HAINES MORRILL

OU’RE going to get stung, if you
don’t look out!” called my neighbor
as I started to pick up her dust mop.
“How can an old mop sting me?” I asked.
“Well, look and see what’s in it.”
“A bumblebees’ nest!” I exclaimed. “How
did it get there?”
“Oh, last fall I put the mop away be-
tween some boxes on the back porch, and

 

THE BUMBLEBEES’ NEST IN
THE MOP

today when I began moving things around
out there I heard a loud buzzing. At ﬁrst
I thought I heard the ‘purr’ of a car, but I
soon saw the bumblebees’ nest.”

We examined the mop more closely, pull-
ing back some of the woollen threads. There
we saw bumblebees in all different stages
of growth. There were wax cells, or baby
cradles, fat little grubs, cocoons, pupae,
and many small bumblebees, some just
drying their wings.

“Are you going to kill them?” I ques-
tioned.

“Oh, no!” she answered. “I don’t mind
them renting my mop for I can get along
without it for awhile, and next summer
there will be more ﬂowers for me to enjoy.”

“You see,” she continued to explain,
“some ﬂowers, such as Red clover, depend
upon bumblebees to carry their pollen.
Without the bumblebees carrying the pollen
the ﬂowers are unable to bear seed.”

“Then bumblebees are our friends?” I
asked.

“Yes, indeed!” she assured me.

Then we took a picture of the mop so you
could see the bumblebees’ nest.

 




l

 

 

 

 
 
  
     

GLORY T0
GOD,
PEACE ON EARTH,
Kmoness, JUSTICE 0
AND MERCY 'ro
EVERY LIVING
CREATURE.

  

 
 
  

7
m
‘2‘;

     
   
  

Founded by Geo. T. Angell Incorporated 1889

For rates of membership in both of our Societies
see back cover. Checks should be made payable to
Treasurer.

Ofﬁcers of the American Humane Education Society
0 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds

JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman, Chase Harris Forbes
Corporation

CHARLES G. BANCROF’I‘, Vice-President, United Shoe
Machinery Corporation

PHILIP STOCKTON, President, First National Bank of
Boston

Foreign Corresponding Representatives

George B. Duff .................. Australia

Luis Pareja Cornejo .............. Ecuador

Charles A. Williams .............. France

Leonard T. Hawksley ............. Italy

Mrs. Mary P. E. Nitobe .......... Japan

Mrs. Marie C. E. Houghton ........ Madeira

Dr. A. T. Ishkanian ............. Mexico

Luther Parker ................... Philippine Islands
Joaquin Julia .................... Spain

Mrs. Alice W. Manning .......... Turkey

Humane Press' Bureau
Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke, Secretary
180 Longwood Ave., Boston

Field Workers of the Society

Mrs. Alice L. Park, Palo Alto, California
Mrs. Rachel C. Hogue, San Diego, California
Mrs. Jennie R. Nichols, Tacoma, Washington
James D. Burton, Oakdale, Tennessee

Mrs. Katherine Weathersbee, Atlanta, Georgia
Rev. F. Rivers Barnwell, Fort Worth, Texas
Miss Blanche Finley, Richmond, Virginia
Rev. John W. Lemon, Ark, Virginia

Miss Lucia F. Gilbert, Boston, Massachusetts
Mrs. Jennie R. Toomim, Chicago, Illinois
Seymour Carroll, Columbia, S. C.

Field Representative
Wm. F. H. Wentzel, M. S., Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

Field Lecturer in Massachusetts
Ella A. Maryott

News from Norway

HE sixth meeting of the Scandinavian
Animal Protection Union, which also
includes Finland, was held in September at
Lillehammer, Norway. Representatives from
Norway, Sweden and Denmark were pres-
ent. The following agenda were discussed:
(a) The slaughter-house question in the
four countries. A uniform law in all was
advocated.

(b) Transportation of cattle in autos
was thoroughly sifted and common instruc-
tions proposed.

(0) Animal protection laws to be made
homogeneous for all.

(d) The game laws, night hunting, mini-
mum age of hunters and prohibition of
traps and snares.

(6) Practical means to prevent the de-
struction and economic loss of animals
killed by ﬁre.

(f) The humane and economic protection
of the reindeer against the ravages of the
gadﬂy.

The next meeting of the Union will be
held in Copenhagen in 1934.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Tacoma Humane Society

S the representative of the American

Humane Education Society in the State
of Washington, Mrs. Jennie R. Nichols of
Tacoma has for a number of years carried
on a constant and extensive program of hu-
mane education. She has also been prom-
inently identiﬁed with the National Con-
gress of Parents and Teachers and at pres-
ent is national chairman of the committee
on humane education. By virtue of this
ofﬁce she has come into contact with many
thousands of homes and schools and leaders
in, the national councils.

Mrs. Nichols is also active in the affairs
of the local Humane Society, at the recent
annual meeting of which a most interesting
program was presented. Addresses were-
delivered by Dr. N. D. Showalter, state sup-
erintendent of public instruction, and by
Mrs. Kathryn Malstrom, now a. state sena-
tor and president of the Seattle Council
P. T. A. The “winning feature” and “our
star attraction,” writes Mrs. Nichols, was
Patricia Houlihan, a little Seattle girl of
thirteen, president of a Junior Humane So-
ciety in her school since she was eight years
old. Patricia took the platform and intro-
duced her famous dog, “Arnold,” who is
credited with saving the lives of twenty-
eight persons and wears the Lincoln Gold
Medal, hitherto rigidly reserved for human
heroes- Then the young speaker, with poise
and manner and earnestness comparable
with her elders, told what humane educa-
tion had done in her school. The girl and
dog made a ﬁne impression. At the luncheon
following, given by Mrs. Nichols, several
new memberships were received from among
the guests, and a substantial donation for
the work of the Society.

Fez Monthly Report

October, 1933 —— 31 Days

Daily average large animals 46

Forage for same ‘ $66.40
Daily average dogs 11.4

Forage for same 9.20
Put to sleep 23 3.10
Transportation 13.00
Wages, grooms, etc. 77.60
Inspector’s Wages 24.15
Superintendent’s salary 133.50
Assistant’s salary 69.50
Veterinary’s salary 22.25
Motor allowance 14.00
Sundries 27.45

 

. $460.15
Entries: 8 horses, 12 mules, 15 donkeys.
Exits: 11 horses, 16 mules, 26 donkeys.

SUPT.’S NOTES: 70 Native Fondouks visited;
10,749 animals inspected; 3,185 animals treated; and
10 transferred to American Fondouk.

Inspector’s Report of his patrolling the Souks and
roads: 3,615 halted and inspected; 625 treated; and
4 sent to our Fondouk.

While the need of economy has obliged us
to reduce the number of large animals re-
celved at the Fondouk, we have had, during
September and October, more dogs than
ever before to be cared for and fed. If we
knew the future value of the dollar we
might dare allow the number of horses,
mules and donkeys to be increased to 80
for the ﬁrst three months of 1934.

A Fine Slogan from Texas:

BUILD

Friendships
NotWarships
FOR NATIONAL

DEFENSE

Jan. 1934

For Primary Teachers

HE American Humane Education So-

ciety has just issued an entirely new
pamphlet of 48 pages, “An Early Start to
Kindness,” intended to be read by the
teacher to the children in ﬁrst and second
grades, and to be used as a supplementary
reader in elementary schools. It is the work
of Miss Lucia Fessenden Gilbert, expert
ﬁeld representative of the Society, who has
been unusually successful in presenting
humane education in rural schools of New
England. Miss Gilbert treats her subject
in an original way, using familiar incidents
in the lives of the great but adding a store
of valuable information in regard to the
treatment of domestic animals, so presented
as to captivate pupils of tender years. The
text is illustrated with eighteen pictures,
some of them full-page. Every teacher of
the ﬁrst and second grades should have a
copy of this pamphlet in her desk. The
price is only ten cents, postage free. Lib—
eral discounts to Societies and school ofﬁcials
requiring large numbers. Address, Ameri-
can Humane Education Society, 180 Long-
wood Avenue, Boston.

Humane Education

N our April issue we reviewed, with

praise, a gift book of the Millennium
Guild compiled by its president, Mrs. M.
R. L. Freshel, (Box 323, Ridgeﬁeld, Conn.)
of which ﬁfteen hundred have been distrib-
uted. The book is titled, “Selections from
Three Essays by Richard Wagner with
Comment on a Subject of Such Importance
to Humanity that it Constitutes an Issue in
Ethics and Religion.” The compiler has to
date received nearly one thousand grateful
and appreciative letters, and we are moved
to refer again to this remarkable book by
seeing some of these comments, of which we
can give space to only four, but these from
well—known men whose judgment is prized.

William Howard Hay: “I am in receipt of
your book, and wish to tell you that I
think that you have created a master-
piece. I believe that an unprejudiced read-
ing of such a book as this will do more
than all other things combined to hasten
the time when people will appreciate the
loss that we have suffered through the
exploitation of the animal kingdom.”

Former Gov. Percival P. Baxter: “You
have done a great service to the cause of
our sub-human friends. I doubt if there
has ever been published a more valuable
volume. It is monumental.”

Edgar White Burrill: “Your book on Wag-
ner with its alternate pages of humani-
tarian quotations is not only the clever-
est propaganda but also the ﬁnest thing
that has been done for the animal cause.”

The Rev. John Haynes Holmes: “I want to
say that I have looked through the volume
carefully. It is enormously impressive, in
fact the most impressive testimony for
the cause of anti-vivisection that I have
ever seen.”

We are pleased to have our own appreci--
ation of this book so heartily endorsed.

In making your will, please remember
the American Humane Education Society
of Boston, the ﬁrst of its kind in the world.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

Jan. 1934

 

“ Silverlocks ”‘

E wish we had space to tell the many

remarkable characteristics of this
beautiful creature that lived to enter his
eighteenth year. His mistress, a great friend
of our Society, tells us that birds were never
afraid of him, would come and eat very
near to him; he would eve-n chase away
from the birds any other cat that threatened
their safety, and for other cats he cherished
no friendship.

Starlings and Sparrows

The best and most emphatic defense of
the starling and English sparrow yet seen
is printed in Pennsylvania Game News,
issued by the Commissioners. Conceding
that at times they are a nuisance, the
writer says: “It is the old story of all
created things. Very few creatures are
wholly bad. Before we can pass judgment,
we must strike a balance to ﬁnd whether
we are better off with or without them.”
He states that after examination of the
stomachs of thousands of birds of various
species, made by the Game Commission, the-
starling was found, because of its numbers,
to be the Pennsylvania farmer’s best friend,
with the English sparrow a close second.
So far not a single starling in the insect-
feeding season has been found subsisting on
anything else. Japanese, cucumber, Mexican
bean, Asiatic and willow-leaf beetles, al-
falfa weevils and countless other pests are
grist to the starling’s mill. After the J ap-
anese beetle has grounded for the year,
examination of a fresh batch of stomachs
showed the food had been the injurious
clover weevil. Nor, says the authority, do
starlings drive away other birds. Starlings,
robins, grackles and doves were watched for
months nesting within a few feet of each
other in perfect amity. The only bird none
would allow near was the brown thrasher.

—Animald0m

Annuity Bonds

Many men and women, lovers of animals,
are getting both happiness and material
comfort from our two Societies’ Annuity
Bonds. These bonds are absolutely safe
and yield a return according to one’s
age. They make their appeal ordinarily to
people over 40 years of age. Send to 180
Longwood Ave., Boston, for'full details.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Kindness to Animals

ALBERT W. BARTLETT

ANY inmates of the Massachusetts

State prison have pet animals—dogs,
cats galore, tame mice, and scores of
pigeons, all of whom thrive and live a life
of pleasure and happiness on the love and
food given them by their masters. Every
day inmates share their rations with the
pets they are caring for. A favorite saying
is, “Look at ‘Mike,’ the Extension cat, doing
life and doesn’t know it. He is happy as a
lark all day lOng.”

On the small plaza between the prison
storehouse and the Cherry Hill section cf
the prison, hundreds of pigeons assemble
three times a day to receive their food ra-
tion from the hands of Tom, their prisoner
friend. Tom stands in the center of the
plaza surrounded by his feathered friends.
He extends an arm, palm of hand up. At
once a beautiful homing pigeon flies up to
light on his hand and feed from it. Other
pigeons flutter about his knees, waiting
for a chance to rest on Tom’s hand for a
share of the food. A fine exhibition of love
and understanding between their pal, Tom,
and his friends who love and trust him.

A short time ago, a runner from one of
the prison shops in passing along the drive—
way between the factory building and the
high prison wall, picked up a badly in-
jured pigeon which was lying in the road-
way. He took it up to “Doc,” a well-known
friend of all animals. Doc put a splinter on
the broken leg and wing, and made a large-
sized wire cage so that the bird would be safe
and comfortable. At first the bird pecked
at the hand while being fed. It was fright-
ened and afraid, but Doc’s kind, soothing
voice soOn overcame its fear. Little by
little it became tame and gentle so that it
permitted being petted and handled. No
baby ever had more careful nursing. A
complete recovery was made and the pigeon
is now back with its companions that roost
on the roof of Cherry Hill, waiting patient-
ly for Tom to appear with a handful of
grain.

The Brown or Tree Creeper

FERN BERRY

F some day when you are taking a winter

stroll through the orchard, along the tree-
lined streets or across country, you should
notice a tiny bird no larger than a wren but
with invisible legs and feet and with a tail
pointed like that of a woodpecker, you will
know that you have seen a tree creeper or
brown creeper.

It would be hard to estimate the amount
of good this bird does to the farmer or or-
chardist each year. You must watch every
moving thing closely in order to see a brown
creeper. Like a tiny shadow this little bird
goes about its food hunting. With tail
pressed closely against the rough bark of
some great tree it moves jerkily up, up, up,
in a zig-zag line, until it is lost in the
branches above. Soon you will hear a lisp-
ing note, “seet—seet—seet,” and the tiny
bird will drop or shoot from the top of one
tree to the roots of another and begin the
labor of searching for insects, eggs, cocoons
and other “goodies” of the bird appetite.

' The creeper has an awl-like, curved bill
which is just right for probing into the crev-

Page 11

ices in search of food. He has no other
food than the matter found beneath the
bark and hidden away in the creases and
he sings no song but the thin, lisping “seet-
seet-seet.”

In late May or early June the brown
creeper builds a fairy—like nest beneath a
sheet of loosened bark in the deep, cool
woods, and here it is that the eggs, faintly
speckled with brown on creamy white, are
laid and the young birdlings reared.

One must have sharp eyes to spy the
creeper, but a study of the habits of this
tiny brown elfin-like bird is well worth the
time and trouble.

The Beasts at Judgment

“And he was there in the wilderness forty days . . .
and was with the wild beasts . . .” Mark 1:13
We are the friendly beasts—
We knew this Jesus well.
Full forty days and nights
The Lord with us did dwell.

Lean limb and padded paw,
We followed in his track——

And not a claw unsheathed
And not a lip writhed back!

We watched with gentle eyes
When down he laid him;

No javckal in the land
Would have betrayed him!

Our tongues had licked the dust
From his worn sanda-l— '

We brought our round-eyed young
For him to fondle.

Lion and leopard and wolf—
We would have ministered to him.
We were the friendly beasts—
His own kind slew him!

SARA HENDERSON HAY in Christian Science
Monitor

 

ESKIMO SLEDGE DOG
.Hudson Bay Country

 




 
 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

Page ’79

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Photo by H. Armstrong Roberts
WHEN GOOD FELLOWS GET TOGETHER

 

How the King Chose Brave Men

MADGE HAINES MORRILL

THE King had called for men. He wanted men of strength
and courage to go with him on a long journey to a distant
country.

And as the King looked through the open window of his
mansion, he saw there were too many men. He must choose the
best. But how could this be don-e? How could he know which
men were brave, and which were not? While he thus pondered
in his mind, he noticed a little dog, crippled and lean, go in
among the men. At once some began to tease the dog; they
threw stones and sticks. But others tried to save the dog.

The King arose, went out upon the balcony and gave com-
mand, “Stand to my left, all those who chased the dog away!
Stand to my right, all those who tried to save the dog!”

The men obeyed.

The King then spoke. “I want brave men. Today I’ll choose.”

The men that stood upon his left whispered to themselves,
“It is us he’ll choose. We drove the dog away. We are the
brave.” The King continued with his speech. “Today I’ve
made a test, and now I know which men are brave.”

Then, turning to the men upon his left, “Be gone, for you
are all cowards. I have found that he who without cause in-
ﬂicts pain upon a helpless creature, is every time a coward.”

The King next spoke to those upon his right, “Ye men, pre-
pare to go with me. I want brave men, kind men, and I have

chosen you.”

Ducks

ELLA C. FORBES

I know a quiet, shaded pond
Where dumpy ducks sail in and out;
Part of a peace that is profound,
Untroubled by the world about.

They keep an even, pleasant pace,
Until they hear the children call,

Then, whip the water in a race,
And that I like the best of all.

For little friends, they know are there
With goodies that all duckies love,
And in a moment more they share
A joyous feast which all approve.

They gobble happily and long,
They qua-ck and waddle with delight,
And, though they are no birds of song,
To me it is a lovely sight.

How a Wood Duck Moves Her Brood

EDNA L. DAILY

WE were camping out in Oregon. While walking one day
I saw a duck light on a tree and disappear in a hollow
where a broken limb had caused the tree to decay. I watched
for some time but the duck did not come out. The next day
when going past the “duck tree” I saw her come out from the
same hole. Afterwards my husband and I often saw her going
in or coming out. “What do you suppose she ﬁnds up there?”
I queried. “Could it be an ant’s nest? Do you suppose she
eats ants?”

One day my husband climbed up to the hole and looked in.
The mystery was solved. There was a nest, and the mother-
bird was hatching.

Ordinarily I would have been pleased to ﬁnd a wild duck
hatching her brood, but now I was worried. Baby ducks I knew
do not live in trees but take to the water soon aft-er they are
hatched. I had thought that ducks always nested on the ground.
How would the baby ducks ever get out of that hole? We might
climb up and get them but would the mother care for them if
we did, or would she be so frightened she would leave?

“Better wait and let her make the next move,” my husband
said. I waited impatiently. On the second day I was rewarded.
I saw the mother ﬂying from the tree with something in her
mouth. It seemed strange that she should be carrying things
away rather than to the nest. I watched her closely. She
settled down on the water not far from where I stood and de-
posited her burden. It was a baby duck. The little ﬂuffy ball
seemed perfectly at home. The mother duck removed her whole
brood one at a time to the water, then she proceeded to give
them their ﬁrst swimming lesson.

I turned back to the camp satisﬁed that the wise bird well
knew how to care for her young ones.

As summer approaches, remember that an abundant supply
of fresh water should be kept where domestic pets can have
access to it at all times. We often overfeed our cats and dogs
when they are suffering for lack of water.

 

 




7v..—

 

 

 

July, 1934
Wren in the Maple

The House Wren is the State Bird of Ohio
EARL BIGELOW BROWN

0h, elﬁn music-box;
Oh, magic source of song
That flows in bright cascade
The whole day long!

Thy music multiplies
In fledglings, three or four,
From whose more tiny throats
Ric-h melody will pour!

Oh, miracle of God,
That from soft breast, so small,
With never failing charm, -
Ecstatic song should fall!

Burns-Poet of Nature
JASPER B. SINCLAIR

ROBERT BURNS may depend upon his
love lyrics for his eternal fame, but
few poets have written more appealingly
about our dumb animals than the Scottish
bard.

Numberless verses have been written
about the loyalty of dogs, but what other
poet has ever attuned his muse to heed the
existence of the lowly mouse? While plow—
ing on his father’s farm one day, Burns’s
plowshare upturned the nest of a pair of
ﬁeld mice. The young poet stopped his plow-
ing and wrote his ode “To a Mouse,” which
contains that oft-repeated phrase about
“The best laid schemes of mice and men”
and these humble lines:

“And make thee startle
At me, thy poor earth-born companion,
And fellow-mortal!”

Reared in an age when even human life
was held lightly, Burns raised his voice in
vigorous protest against the needless slaugh-
ter of the birds by those alleged “sportsmen”
who masquerade under the guise of “hunt-
ers” when he penned:

“The thundering guns are heard on every
side,

The wounded coveys, reeling, scatter wide;

The feathered ﬁeld-mates, bound by Nature’s
tie,

Sires, mothers, children, in one carnage lie.”

In a letter to a friend he once wrote:
“Scarcely any object gave me more—I do
not know if I should call it pleasure, but
something which exalts and enraptures
me—than to walk in the sheltered side of a
wood in a cloudy winter day and hear the
stormy wind howling among the trees. I
listened to the birds, and frequently turned
out of my path lest I should disturb their
little songs or frighten them to another
station.”

He was, as he himself expressed it, full
of pity for the “melancholy cattle,” the
“silly sheep” and the “helpless birds,” buf-
feted and beset by wintry blasts.

He stands beside the moss-draped ruins of
a rooﬂess tower where “the howlet (owl)
mourns in her dewy bower and sets the
wild echoes ﬂying.” No matter what his
mood or misfortune, he was always compas-
sionate toward all animate creatures—al-
ways the poet and friend of nature.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

State Birds

C.BERNARD PETERSON '

MONG our most interesting neighbors

are the birds, yet too few of us real-

ize either their importance or their
numbers. A small group of observers at Buf-
falo, New York, counted 245 different
kinds of birds within a radius of 50 miles
of that great industrial city, during a period
of only three years, and has records of more
than 300 kinds as being seen during the
past 20 years. It is surprising what a large
number of birds live within a few miles of
the city, and how few kinds are known to
the average person.

The campaign, which during the past few
years has been waged by women’s clubs, to
induce each state in the United States to
designate some bird as its ofﬁcial bird is
awakening interest in our feathered neigh-
bors. Today only four states, Connecticut,
Iowa, New Jersey, and Tennessee have not
adopted an ofﬁcial bird. By formal action
of state legislatures all other states have
chosen birds to represent them, the last
state to do so being North Carolina, which
designated the tomtit, or Carolina Chicka-
dee as its representative.

Birds have been chosen by the states for
their beauty, because of the economic value,
for their pleasing songs, or because in some
way they are tied by tradition to the state.
Some birds have been chosen by more than
one state, the western meadowlark being
honored by seven: Montana, Nebraska,
North Dakota, South Dakota, Kansas, Ore-
gon, and Wyoming. The mockingbird and
the cardinal were selected by three states
each; Arkansas, Florida, and Mississippi
favoring the imitator, and Delaware, Illi-
nois, and Kentucky the ﬂaming one. The
robin was also chosen by three states, Mich-
igan, Virginia, and Wisconsin, while bob-
white was chosen by Oklahoma and Rhode
Island.

Alabama chose her bird, the ﬂicker, or

 

 

 

 

r/
i

THE PURPLE FINCH IS THE STATE
BIRD OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

FLICKER—STATE BIRD OF ALABAMA

yellow hammer, because during the Civil
War her soldiers were nicknamed yellow-
hammers from the yellow uniforms worn by
the cavalry. Utah chose the California gull
to remind her citizens of the great service
done the state by these birds, when they
saved a crop from insects in 1848. New
York state once favored the robin, but in
1927 changed her mind by legislative act,
and bestowed the honor upon the eastern
bluebird, an honor which this bird shares
with Missouri, too.

A long story could be written about how
the various states came to choose the birds
that now represent them. Even the Dis-
trict of Columbia has chosen a bird, the
wood thrush, although the national bird is
the bald eagle, and it would appear to some
that the national bird ought to suﬂice for
the capital as well. Birds chosen by other
states are: Arizona, cactus wren; Califor-
nia, valley quail; Colorado, lark bunting;
Georgia, brown thrasher; Idaho, mountain
bluebird; Indiana, eastern cardinal; Louisi-
ana, brown pelican; Maine, Chickadee;
Maryland, Baltimore oriole; Massachusetts,
veery; Minnesota, goldﬁnch; Nevada, moun-
tain bluebird; New Hampshire, purple ﬁnch;
New Mexico, road runner; Ohio, house
wren; Texas, western mockingbird; Ver-
mont, hermit thrush; Washington, willow
goldﬁnch; and West Virginia, tufted tit-
mouse.

Perhaps in time the good work the wom-
en’s clubs have been doing will be reﬂected
in an increased appreciation and love for
our songsters. Then we may all know doz-
ens of kinds of birds when we see them, or
hear their notes, instead of the few that we
now recognize.

Humane Sunday, April 7; Be Kind to
Animals Week, April 8—13, 1935.




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

V

 

 

 

Page 30
@112 Eanh nf merry

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary
E. A. MARYOTT, State Organizer

PLEDGE

I will try to be kind to all living creatures and
try to protect them from cruel usage.

The American Humane Education Society will send
to every person who forms a Band of Mercy of thirty
members, and sends the name chosen for the Band and
the name and post-ofﬁce address of the president who
has been duly elected, special Band of Mercy literature
and a gilt badge for the president.

See inside front cover for prices of literature and
Band of Mercy supplies.

NEW BANDS OF MERCY

Seven hundred and ninety-one new Bands
of Mercy were reported during December.
Of these, 404 were in Illinois, 109 in Texas,
99 in Vermont, 50 in Georgia, 43 in Vir-
ginia, 42 in Massachusetts, 19 in Rhode
Island, 16 in South Carolina, eight in Penn-
sylvania, and one in California.

Total number Bands of Mercy organized
by Parent American Society, 198,869

Birds of Land and Water

WILL HERMAN

S astonishing as the ﬁsh which can
come out of the water and crawl about

on the land, are the birds which dive and

walk about at the bottom of the water and
swim along on these regions as naturally
as the common ﬁsh.

The most famous Of all the feathered
swimmers is the grebe. This bird builds
its nest on the surface of the water—but
actually collects the weeds and plants to
build it from the bottom of the water.

The grebe also gets its food from below
the surface of the water. Although poorly
equipped for ﬂying on land, it actually ﬂies
through the water. Timing these birds by
means of motorboats and stop watches has
given us the speed of these swimming crea-
tures—two hundred feet in a half minute.

This bird spends practically its entire
life on and in the water. It suns itself by

L

HUGH AND NANCY, CHILDREN OF CHIEF VETERINARIAN H. F. DAILEY OF

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

The Lost Dog

I saw a little dog today,
And, oh, that dog was lost;
He risked his anguished puppy life
With every street he crossed.
He shrank away from outstretched hands,
And winced at every hail——
Against the city’s bigness he
Looked very small and frail.

Distrust lay in his tortured eyes,
His body shook with fright; '

(I wondered when he’d eaten last——
And where he’d slept at night!)

I whistled, and I followed him,
And hoped that he might guess

That all my soul reached out to him,
And oﬂered friendliness!

So many times Ihave been lost,
And lonely and afraid!
I followed through the crowded street,
I followed—and I prayed. '
And the God of little things,
Who knows when sparrows fall,
Put trust into the puppy’s heart
And made him heed my call.

MARGARET SANGSTER

/———_

ﬂoating on the surface, and. when it becomes
hungry, dives below. Walking along the
bottom of the water, it ﬁnds its food, such
as small ﬁsh and plant life.

The bird has the power to remain under
water for ten to ﬁfteen minute-s. Truly a
remarkable accomplishment for a creature
.whose natural habitat is the air.

Among the other feathered creatures who
swim and dive about in the water are the
famous penguins. These birds have no abil-
ity to ﬂy and are extremely clumsy when
walking on land, but in the water they are
as much at home as any ﬁsh. They swim
and dive with as much surety as any human
diver and swimmer, but their purpose isn’t
the same. Their diving and swimming is
to get food, and for exercise they go upon
the land which, to them is a strange
medium.

     

THE ANGELL ANIMAL HOSPITAL, WITH THEIR FAVORITE PET
ON LAWN OF THEIR HOME ‘ '

 

Feb. 1934

Something About Goats

ALETHEA M. BONNER

HE SE domesticated hollow—h o r n e d

ruminants (cud—chewers) are closely
allied to the sheep, though they have differ-
ent ancestry —— the original stock being
traced to the wild goat (capra aegagrus) of
Persia.

Aside from the common English goat,
with its short white, gray, or brown hair,
there are many breeds and each possesses
distinct characteristics. For example, the
spiral—horned Angora, which came originally
from Angora in Asia Minor, wears a white
coat of two kinds of hair. That which
grows next to the skin is short and coarse,
while the outer covering consists of long,
close—matted ringlets of softest texture. It
is from this outer wool that a ﬁne fabric,
called mohair, is manufactured.

Another familiar breed is the Cashmere
goat. Its horns are very erect; it has a
small head, long wide ears, and like its
cousin, the Angora, boasts a ﬂeece of two
materials. Yet it is the under-growth wool
of the Cashmere that is most valuable, it
being of a grayish-White color and of lovely
down-like quality.

Then the-re are the long-eared, cream-
ﬁeeced Syrians; the gray-toned hornless
Maltese; the jet—black Nubians, and the
dwarf Guinea goats—in every quarter of
the globe these useful four-footed creatures
are found, and looked upon with highest
favor. Perhaps, though, it is’in Switzer-
land that the animals prove most popular,
for there they are raised in large herds and
given much attention. The famous Swiss
cheese, that we think so. delicious, is made
from goats’ milk.

Rightly has the goat been called “the
poor man’s cow,” because it is a hardy, ser-
viceable beast,,thrives on coarse vegetation
or brushland, and costs little to keep. Many
fraternal societies, in a spirit of fun, have
adopted the frisky and nimble-footed crea-
ture as their mascot animal, and “riding
the goat,” is a common and signiﬁcant
phrase in fraternal circles—in fact, it has
been said jestingly of these organizations
that “they may live without banners, loud-
speakers, and votes; but no Secret Order
can live without goats!”

The Persistent Pewee
WILLIS MEHANNA

Thirty and forty years ago the common
pewee was a regular tenant of our barns
and granaries every spring and summer.
Pewees also nested on the beams of the
wooden bridges that spanned the streams.

‘ Now there seems to have been a change.
The belligerent English sparrow has all
but driven him from our outbuildings. Our
creeks and rivers are spanned largely by
cement culverts and these do not furnish
good holds for nesting places.

But did the pewee give up? He did not.
He moved to the woods and adapted him-
self to them. Here with his ﬁrst cousin,
the wood pewee, he is mastering the means
of existence and thriving. The wood pewee
is a little larger and has a slightly yellow-
ish cast when ﬂying. Otherwise they are
about identical. Both are useful birds, very
quiet but great worm and insect eaters.

 

 

 




m..—

- -4- -f

 

. Fan ..4

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 51;

beasts, either of a cruel affection of mind,
or else to be changed in continuance of
time into cruelty, by long use of so cruel a
pleasure. . . .”

It is to be hoped that this delight in
frightening and torturing animals, in
which so many cultured, capable and other-
wise kindly persons indulge themselves, is
not, as the Utopians conjecture, an inborn
“cruel affection of mind,” but that this
manifestation of cruelty is the result of
thoughtlessness for which ‘only “the continu-
ance of time” is responsible. Sir Thomas
More goes on to argue that there is no
essential pleasure in such cruelty, but that
“not the nature of the thing, but their per-
verse and lewd custom is the cause thereof,
which causeth them to accept bitter or sour
things for sweet things. Even as women
with child in their vitiated and corrupt
taste, think pitch and tallow sweeter than
any honey.” Dean Inge opines, regretfully,
that “The hunting instinct is as deeply
rooted in mankind as the ﬁghting instinct.”
Surely it is not more so; and yet for the
past decade or so the unblushing apologists
of war have shrunk to a small minority,
whereas ministers of the gospel, philanthro-
pists and delicate women 'still kill, mangle
and maim birds and harmless animals for
amusement. Bull-baiting has disappeared in
England, and the bull-ﬁght and the cock-
ﬁght are languishing in Mexico because the
younger generation are growing more inter-
ested in baseball and other less degrading
sports. Amateur hunters still have a way
of displaying the horns, fur and feathers
of the poor creatures they have done to
death, much as the savage Indians used to
exhibit the scalps of their defeated foes.
(The comparison is not fair to the Indians,
because the scalps were often an evidence
of courage, whereas hunting trophies are
usually evidence in the opposite direction.)
But scalp-dances have gone out of fashion,
and hunting, that strange hang-over from
the period of savagery, must certainly lose
its vogue in time. It is to be hoped that
the leaders of advanced thought will speed
its departure.

And when a so-called' sportsman shoots
a deer—I’d ﬁx it so that the deer could
shoot straight back. WALTER WINCHELL

Five states now prohibit the cropping of
dogs’ ears—Massachusetts, Connecticut,
New York, New Jersey, and Pennsylvania.

1

 

PACK-TRAIN, TOP OF JONAS PASS, JASPER PARK

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

King of England’s Horses
P. B. PRIOR

NE of the most interesting places in

London is the RoyalMews. They are
situated in Buckingham Palace Road, at the
back of the Palace itself.

N 0 other horses in the world have such a
splendid home. A long line of roomy stalls
goes down each side of the main building,
which is in the form of a quadrangle. The
Mews has now a “population” of eighty-
ﬁve; but before the Great War it housed
one hundred and sixty-six horses.

The ﬁttings are of polished ‘steel and
brass, and every animal is worthy of its
surroundings. Over each stall is a plate,
bearing the name of the occupant. There
are the special horses for the State coaches,
the carriage pairs, his Majesty’s chargers,
the Queen’s horses, and those of the Royal
Princes.

For the last few years the whole of the
King’s stud has consisted of bays, and the
most of the horses are prize winners from
shows all over the world. Among the fa-
mous creatures are “Swinton,” which his
Majesty rides in the Row, and “Paris,”
which, in spite of his twenty-six years, can
still trot from the Palace to Paddington
station in ﬁfteen minutes. “Anzac,” a war
veteran, belonging to the Prince of Wales,
and “Tom,” the leader of the Royal escort,
are to be found in the neighboring stalls.
Tom has been trained to trot at so many
paces to the second, and all Royal pro-
cessions are timed by him.

Quite different from all other creatures
in the Mews is “Basuto,” a pony given to
the King by an Indian chief. He is so sure-
footed that the grooms believe that he could
walk a tight-rope.

There are several horses in the Mews
which take part in special processions, such
as the Lord Mayor’s show, and other big
occasions when the King and Queen and
their retinue are in attendance. These
horses have all been specially trained to
get used to the different street noises. Vari-
ous articles are beaten to resemble the
noises made in a crowded street, so that
when the horses do take part in these Royal
processions they are not scared, but can
easily be driven and controlled by the coach-
men. And what a sight they make with

their sleek and shiny coats, their nickel-
plated harness, their polished hoofs, and
the elegant and proud way they carry their

Apr. 1931;

heads; as if they realize their importance
on such an occasion—and I’m sure if they
could speak they would say how proud they
felt to be able to be so honored!

The Mountain Pony
W. J. BANKS

VERY day, in the lofty Rockies, count-

less riders trust their lives to the sure-
footed mountain ponies. One false step
would plunge mount and rider to certain
death in the chasms below, but, whether he
be experienced mountain man or greenhorn
tourist, the rider has nothing to fear. The
well-trained little mountain horse is per-
fectly at home on those high and danger-
ous trails. For generations his ancestors
have been doing this same job, and he him-
self has scrambled over the highest peaks
and ridges from infancy.

Those who want to see the real grandeur
of the Rockies, to probe their loveliest se-
crets, must leave the beaten, tourist-ﬁlled
tracks of railroad and motor highway. They
must look to the mountain pony for trans-
port into the farthest and highest ranges,
where they may camp and live in real com-
munion with nature and her wild folk. This
sturdy little horse will carry the nature-
pilgrim or his pack over the loftiest crags
where only bighorn sheep and mountain
goats are wont to roam; on the descent,
where footing is impossible he will slide
toboggan-like on his haunches without in-
jury to pack or rider; he will swim swollen,
rapid mountain streams without protest.

No bobbed tail or checkrein troubles the
mountain saddle or pack-horse. He lives in
mutual respect and conﬁdence with his
trainer and master, the experienced moun-
taineer and guide. Both patiently endure
the blunderings, complaints and nervous-
ness of men and women tourists, and co-
operate in bringing greenhorn parties safely
over the most difﬁcult trails. The mountain
pony is not in the least disconcerted by the
mistakes of ignorant riders which might be
fatal if he didn’t correct them. Which is
not to say that he is a meek, spiritless thing.
His little rolling eye reminds us of his wild
mustang blood; but on the trail he is all
business and attention. He may have no
particular love for the stranger on his back,
but he has no desire to fall off a precipice
himself. As long as horses are used for
transport anywhere, they will be so used in
the rockies.

  
   

 

 

 




.\ __ 444 4444 444

 

 

 

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

Page 127

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

The Bird in the Clock

ALICE B. WILLIAMSON

I never liked a bird in a cage,
07' animals in a zoo,

But I loved the bird in the oldtime clock
That said: “Cuckoo, cuckoo!”

I used to sit and gaze for hours,
And wonder how it knew

Just when it ought to burst that door
And say: “Cuckoo, cuckoo!”

It was a very clever bird,
And it was funny, too,

For it always looked right straight at me
And said: “Cuckoo, cuckoo!”

A Pet Weasel

MARGARET SHELTON

ANY persons who have had experience with animals
_ will tell you that a weasel cannot be tamed; that, though
small, he is too wild and ﬁerce ever to make friends with man.

The experiences of Alan Howard, a woodsman of British
Columbia, disproves this, and shows that even the savage little
weasel will respond to kindness. Having noticed signs of the
animal about the cabin, Mr. Howard placed a piece of raw meat
on the porch. The weasel, watching from behind the wood-pile,
would not approach until the man entered the house. Then the
meat disappeared as if by magic. After a few days Mr.
Howard left the door open a couple of inches and placed the
meat just inside. The weasel screwed up his courage, put on
a little more speed, and continued to escape with the prize.
Gradually the weasel’s fear decreased, until he would come in
and snatch a bit of meat from the toe of Mr. Howard’s shoe
while the man held up a paper as though he were reading.

From this the intimacy progressed. The little animal be-
came so tam-e that he would sit on Mr. Howard’s shoulder and
lick his ear, and take food from his hand. In the evening a
faint scratching on the door would inform Mr. Howard that his
pet wanted to come in. When admitted, the weasel would dart
under the stove, and from there carefully survey the room be-
fore taking any chances. When a stranger called, the animal
remained out of sight. One evening Mr. Howard discovered his
pet drinking soapy water from the wash pan. He immediately
offered some clear water, but the animal rejected it, and went
back to the soap—suds.

When spring came, a little brown stripe started at the end
of the weasel’s nose. Day after day, as the weasel sat on his
knee, Mr. Howard watched that stripe lengthen and broaden
until it reached the animal’s tail. Then it was about half an
inch wide at the shoulders. Gradually widening, it spread down
his sides until he was all brown except a little white under his
throat. Though it is not generally known, the weasel changes
from white to brown in the spring and back to white in the
fall.

With the disappearance of the snow, the weasel left, probably
going to a higher altitude where it was cooler. But in the
following autumn he returned, and resumed his friendship
with the woodsman. They ate supp-er from the same table
every day and spent the evenings together.

“ Gyp,” Well-Known Dog of Oregon

H. E. BROWN

YP,” as he was commonly known throughout the William-
@ ette valley, Oregon, was. given more front page positions
in Oregon newspapers than perhaps any dog in his class. Born
in Silverton, Oregon, of unknown ancestry nearly a score of
years ago, “Gyp” was kicked out of home by some misguided
person, but met a friend, Mrs. George W. Davis, of Eugene,
Oregon, through whose humanizing spirit he became popular
in the valley.

When “Gyp” made his debut in the Oregon university town
there was a great uproar, but afterwards everybody realized
that his new mistress had a genius for value. “Gyp” was self-
assured, capable, cautious and one hundred per cent dog. After
years of happy home life, “Gyp” became decrepit and ﬁnally
was crushed beneath the wheels of a truck. It was bitter,
rising the next morning; the whole community was full of mis-
erable, sullen darkness and sorrow.

It will appear foolish to some people that; we should have
gone to pieces over a little death. And I don’t want to seem
either sentimental or unbalanced. For I am neither. I have had
a rough and tumble life which I should hardly have survived
if I had not had a tough soul and a sense of humor. And I
knew what had happened was the _merest triﬂe in the sum
total of the world’s tragedies—an incident that was being en-
acted a hundred times a second, one might say a normal and
essential item in the scheme of things. But, after all, in the
life of “Dauntless Gyp” there is a lesson of human kindness
and its results which merit earnest consideration.

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

Oct. 1934

Men and Their Dogs

PERCY B. PRIOR

HE authorship of the aphorism, “The

more I see of men, the more I like
dogs,” has been fathered on all sorts of
people, who in all probability were but
copyists. Frederick the Great seems to
have some claim, though it is generally
attributed to Mme. de Sevigne. It was the
kind of thing that Frederick might have
said, since he was a devoted dog lover, and
usually had one as his constant companion
on his campaigns. A courtier, who could
not imagine his master being otherwise
than absorbed in affairs of State, was sur-
prised to ﬁnd him one evening “sitting on
the ground with a big platter of fried meat,
from which he was feeding his dogs. He
had a litttle rod, with which he kept order
among the-m, and shoved the best bits to his
favorites.”

One of Frederick’s dogs earned his grati-
tude because he remained quiet when the
slightest sound would have apprised the
enemy of their whereabouts. William of
Orange, on the other hand, owed his free-
dom to a timely alarm raised by—some say,
a pug, others a spaniel. Though our earlier
monarchs prized dogs on account of the
sport they were able to show, some esteemed
them as companions. Richard the Second
had a favorite greyhound, whose friendli-
ness to the Duke of Lancaster led the King
to remark: “This dog acknowledges no other
master than the King of England. I was
King to this day, and so you will be to-
morrow.”

The toy spaniels that are now known
after one of the Stuarts had previously
been the privileged favorites of Elizabeth,
in whose day they were supposed to possess
healing powers, their warmth drawing
pains from the human body. A sister-in—
law of Louis XIV used them for another
purpose. On being told of the invention of
the eiderdown quilt she remarked, “I never
in my life heard of an eiderdown quilt.
What keeps me warm in bed are six little
doggies which lie around me. No quilt is so
warm as the good doggies.”

Henry VII is said to have ordered the
destruction of mastiﬂ‘s because one of them
had dared to bait a lion, the king of
beasts. A later prince, with ﬁner admira-
tion of courage, took under his special pro-
tection a bulldog that had survived the com-
bat with a lion.

But getting down to the commoner, we
ﬁnd that his love for the dog is usually
paramount and affectionate—one might al-
most say, brotherly. In fact, one of the
world’s famous speeches was concerning a
dog. It was delivered by Senator George
Graham Vest, of Missouri, when represent-
ing the plaintiff in an action claiming dam-
ages for the wanton shooting of his dog by
a neighbor. The jury, after two minutes’
deliberation, awarded $500 instead of the
$200 asked.

More friends are needed to endow stalls
and new kennels in the Angel] Memorial
Animal Hospital. Payments of thirty-ﬁve
dollars for a kennel or seventy-ﬁve dollars
for a stall will insure a suitable marker
inscribed with donor’s name. Terms of
permanent endowment of free stalls and
kennels will be given upon application.

0 UR .D UMB ANIMALS

Page 151

Monument to Japanese Dog

ROM Professor T.
F Hiroi, Azabu, Tokyo,

Japan, we have re-
received a most interest—
ing account of the dog,
“Hachi,” formerly owned
by the late Dr. Eizaburo
Ueno, professor in the Col-
lege of Agriculture of the
Imperial University. Pro-
fessor Ueno being without
children, secured this dog
at great expense from the
province of Akita and
treated him as if he were
a child. Hachi formed the
habit of going with his
master daily at 9 o’clock
to give him a hearty send-
off at the Shibuya station,
and of repairing to the
same place at 4 every af-
ternoon to greet his mas-
ter’s r e t u r n. Professor
Ueno died in 1924 but for
years thereafter the faith-
ful dog kept up his visits
to the station and, though
placed in the care of a new
and kind master, would
stay except at meal-time
at his old residence which
had been sold immediately
after the death of the
o w n e r. Although now
twelve y e a r S Old, and
showing the effects of age,
Hachi still struggles to
the station and often lies

 

 

MRS. UENO STANDS AT THE RIGHT IN THIS GROUP
OF FRIENDS WITH “HACHI” IN THE FOREGROUND

 

down in a half-conscious
state either within or just without the parcel
ofﬁce, where all who see him are very
friendly.

Largely through the efforts of the station
master, Mr. C. Yoshikawa, a substantial
statue of Hachi-k0 (to use the Japanese
form) in a sitting posture, mounted on a
large block of granite, with appropriate in—
scriptions, has been erected directly in front
of the Shibuya station (the fourth largest
station in Japan). At its base Hachi-k0 is
often found lying, while station attaches
and others provide more than enough to
meet his daily wants.

Hollywood Has Humani-

tarians
GENEVRA A. COWAN

OT all Hollywood condones the cruel-
N ties which are frequently practised
upon animals when ﬁlming animal pictures.
Undoubtedly there are men and women en-
gaged as actors and directors who are
whole-heartedly opposed to such treatment
but few ever concern themselves enough
to become actively aggressive in that
direction.

A correspondent, signing himself “Ani-
mal Lover,” recently wrote to Estelle
Lawton Lindsey, that woman columnist of
southern California who so frequently
writes sympathetic items concerning animal
welfare. The correspondent questions the
statement of E. V. Durling who declares
that more than ﬁfty lions were killed and

maimed during the making of a certain
ﬁlm.

Mrs. Lindsey declares unqualiﬁedly that
the statement is true, despite the protests
that are constantly expressed in behalf of
the animals of the screen. Bob Wagner,
the writer, says Mrs. Lindsey, has fre-
quently protested against the cruelties. And
the actor Warner Baxter, (note, you movie-
fan animal lovers) recently refused to par-
ticipate in a certain ﬁlm because of certain
cruelties that were bound to be perpetrated
upon the animals during the shooting of
the ﬁlm. Mrs. Lindsey says she sent him
“the most cordial letter I knew how to
write.” Isn’t that the least that all animal
lovers could do as well as to spread the
news that Baxter, in addition to being an
excellent actor is evidently an humanitarian
as well and as such deserves the warm ap-
probation of every person intent upon elim-
inating these atrocities from the screen.

Mrs. Lindsey’s last comment is notable,
also, for she expresses the desire that
Parent-Teacher Associations join in roundly
denouncing cruelty on the screen.

Since the recent screen clean-up demon-
strated that something can be accomplished
if the public is genuinely aroused, Why
can’t the next accomplishment be the release
of animals from cruelties in the ﬁlming
of pictures?

Time to me this truth has taught,
’Tis a treasure worth revealing,
More oﬂend by want of thought
Than by any want of feeling.
C. SWAIN

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

      

\—
V

  

\s‘é
_ “Ma

; ﬁgurine r if?

With the Organ-Grinder

BETSY MANN COLLINS

Little monkey on a chain,

Do you long for home again?
Home, the cool green forests where
You could romp without a care?

Where you played with noisy brothers,
Scratching some and scolding others
In your funny monkey way?

Little fellow, would you say,

“Take these awful clothes oﬂ’, please,
I can’t kill those pesky fleas!
Sometimes I am tired, still

I must do my master’s will.

When I somersault he jerks

My head until it scarcely works,
And cuﬁs me if I don’t stand up
And drop the pennies in his cup.

Won’t somebody let me free?

A zoo has more of liberty

Than traveling with an organ-grinder—
Won’t somebody, please, be kinder?”

Marriage of Albert-Ross and Kitty-Wake

All the answers are birds’ names and will be published on this

page next month

Who was the bridesmaid?
Who was the best man?
Who married them? ........................
Who made the bridegroom’s clothes? ....................
What kind of hat did the bridegroom wear?
. What did the bridegroom give the bride? ....................
Who came in mourning? ...............................
. What potentate attended the wedding? ..................
The bride’s stout uncle was late. How did he arrive?
10. What did he do when he got thirsty?
11. Who came from the Garden of Eden?
12. Who was the smartest there? ...........................
13. Who was the most amused? ......
14. Who played some sweet music? .........................
15. Who sang softly while it was played?
16. What wine did they drink? .............................
17 . Who put their luggage on the train? ....................
18. In what paper was the wedding announced?
19. Who tore the paper up to make a tail of it?
20. With what was the house decorated? ....................
21. What did the bridegroom do with his money? ..............
22. Who prophesied they would have bad weather?
23. What did the bridegroom call the bride? .....................
24. What did the bride call the bridegroom? .................
25. What did the bride’s mother do? ...........................
26. What said the bridegroom when the bill was presented? .......
27. What did the bride do? ................................
28. What did the bridegroom do?
29. The ﬂy-horse was lame. Why? ..........................
30. It bolted, who stopped it? .................................
31. A guest stole one of the presents. What happened to him? .....
32. How many birds can be married?

wmsegewwe

............

.......................

T :/ qﬁwﬁzﬂ/ﬁ ”MW/JMW/m

1—1 ILDREN 5 PAGE _ :‘

  

I
a.

 

 

A THANKSGIVING QUARTET

 

The Heaviest Cat

INY TINKER is the name of a remarkable cat in Essex,
T England, says a writer in Catholic Young Pe0ple’s

Friend. Everybody for miles around knows Tiny,
and tourists driving through the community often stop their
cars to watch the pet on the little patch of lawn in front
of his mistress’ cottage. For this cat tips the scales at over
34 pounds. He is believed by its owner, and many others, to be
the heaviest cat in the world.

What strengthens Tiny’s claim to the championship in size
is the fact that his claim has not been questioned by any cat
owner, though his picture has appeared in many English maga-
zines and newspapers.

In reply to many hundreds of questioning letters, Miss Dur-
ham, the cat’s owner, explained that Tiny has never been fed
any special diet intended to increase his bulk. He just grew
along naturally until he attained his extraordinary size.

He was not unusually large when ﬁrst born — in fact he was
the smallest of a litter of six kittens. At the age of six months
he was no different from other cats of his age; but from then
he began to grow remarkably, and it was not until recently
that he stopped growing. For about six months now Tiny has
held his weight of 34 pounds and six ounces and it is probable
that he has his growth — at last.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

.. .. - .- _..._.___._~..,.

 

 

 

Pag¢3104
Our Dumb Animals

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston Ofﬁce; 180 Longwood Av-
enue, Boston, Mass., to which all communications
should be addressed.

Dr. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON, Editor
WILLIAM M. MORRILL, Assistant

 

JULY, 1 934

 

FOR TERMS, see back cover.

AGENTS to take orders for Our Dumb Animals are
wanted everywhere. Liberal commissions are offered.

EDITORS of all periodicals who receive this pub-
lication this month are invited to reprint any of the
articles with or without credit.

MANUSCRIPTS relating to animals, particularly
prose articles of about three hundred words are solic-
ited. We do not wish to consider prose manuscripts
longer than 800 words, nor verse in excess of thirty-
six lines. The shorter the better. All manuscripts
should be typewritten and an adressed envelope with
full return postage enclosed with each offering.

 

 

A Chicago Zoo

E hope the report is without founda-

tion that foretells a $4,000,000 zoo for
Chicago. There are already too many un-
happy victims of man’s cruelty caught in far
off lands, shipped thousands of miles from
their native surroundings and then shut up
behind prison bars to wear their lives out
that curiosity may stare at them in their
helplessness. As to the possible $4,000,000
Chicago Zoo the Atlanta Constitution clev-
erly says, “A curious animal in Chicago
would be a teacher with salary paid in full.”

Makers of War

Among those most responsible for the
wars of modern times are the great manu-
facturers of armaments. Their business,
their dividends depend upon war. The more
war, the bigger the dividends. The more
they can scare one nation to arm against
another, the faster the proﬁts roll up for
the stockholders. Senator Nye’s Resolution
before Congress for the appointment of a
Committee to investigate the activities of
individuals and corporations in the United
States engaged in this business, we heartily
endorse. The hope is that some day this
making of armaments may be taken out of
the hands of private individuals and com-
panies and managed by the Government it-
self. The motive of proﬁt leading to incit-
ing to war would then be practically elim-
inated.

Can lovers of peace consistently continue
to hold stock in companies whose proﬁts are
measured largely by the amount of war
material sold? It is something like a prohi—
bitionist investing his money in a distillery.

An Appreciation

The friends of Miss Lucia F. Gilbert, one
of our ﬁeld workers in the New England
States, will read the following with interest:
“Nashua, N. H.——I attended the gathering,
and the address of Miss Gilbert held the
closest attention of all the students and
teachers. Not a vacant seat in the large
assembly and at the close the applause was
prolonged and enthusiastic and every stu—
dent arose and thanked her. She is a most
Interesting speaker and she will always be
welcomed in our other schools.”

OUR DUMB ANIZWALS
The Household Unites

N what? In the plan to. cut down the

consumption of meat according to the
pledge which has been appearing in Our
Dumb Animals and which many are signing.

A lady, prominent socially and ﬁnancially
in the city where she lives, writes us: “I
have talked this subject over with my house-
hold and all agree to the idea. My week as
planned includes ﬁsh on two days, chicken
(locally killed) two days, meat one day,
vegetable dinner one day, and eggs one day.
I shall explain to the owner of our market
why I am not buying meat but once a week.”

To a family use-d to several more meat
days this is a real self—denial. Often one in
a family may be willing to become a strict
vegetarian, but it is difﬁcult to lead an
entire family to be content with a vegetable
diet. To ﬁnd an entire family, father,
mother, children and employee-s willing to
go this far is greatly to their credit. The
more people who keep this pledge the sooner
humaner methods in the slaughter of our
food animals will come.

A Word from Turkey

Our good friend, Mrs. A. W. Manning, of
Robert College, Istanbul, and whose. devo-
tion to the welfare of animals in Turkey is
known to many of our readers, writes us:
“The most important events of the year
were the abolishing of camel ﬁghts and
cock-ﬁghts here and the founding of a new
Society in Ankara. Next year we hope to
be able to have an Animal Week in Tur-
key.” We hope they will be far more suc-
cessful in stopping cock-ﬁghting in Turkey
than the authorities are in this country.
They are very common here and to secure
information as to where they occur so as
to make arrests, is exceedingly difﬁcult.

The Edwardian Era

Lord Salisbury, Prime Minister for over
thirteen years, when the military authori-
ties asked for expensive strategic lines to
be prepared along the Red Sea, wrote to
Lord Cromer, “Now I would not be too much
impressed by what the soldiers tell you
about the strategic importance of these
places. If they were allowed full scope they
would insist upon the importance of gar-
risoning the moon in order to protect us
from Mars.” MAUROIS

Will You Sign This Petition?

If so, please send us your name and ad-
dress as indicated below, and we will add
it to the list.

The Petition

We, the undersigned, knowing the great
and unnecessary cruelty of the present
methods of slaughtering food animals, do
hereby pledge ourselves to cut our con-
sumption of meat and meat products ten
per cent or more, until humane slaughter
is installed in every abattoir, all carcases
to be stamped “Humanely slaughtered.”

Name ..................................
Street address ..........................

City ...................... State ........

July, 1934

 

Mrs. Charlotte L. Hunt

N the death of this gifted and devoted

worker in the cause of animal welfare,
the city of Chicago, her home, the State of
Illinois and, the humane movement of the
entire country have lost one of their wisest,
most efﬁcient and most successful person-
alities. For years Mrs. Hunt was president
of the Chicago Humane Education Society,
closely afﬁliated with our own Humane Edu-
cation Society. We know of no similar
organization with so little ﬁnancial back-
ing that has accomplished so much as this
Chicago society under Mrs. Hunt’s leader-
ship. In association with a group of loyal
women she was able to bring to bear upon
the authorities of the city an inﬂuence alto-
gether beyond what one could have sup-
posed. Through her eﬁorts, and those of
her associates, the municipality was virtu-
ally forced to build the splendid new dog
shelter which has taken the place of one
that was a disgrace to the city. Her visits
at this shelter have been an unfailing in-
spiration, and her gracious spirit of kind-
ness still pervades the entire atmosphere of
the shelter. Few tributes paid to her mem-
ory would she have more keenly appreciated
than the ﬂowers brought to her funeral by
the employees of the shelter literally be-
dewed with their tears. Personality, charm,
wisdom, vision, courage to act where others
hesitated—these gifts of nature combined
to make her what she was—a woman to be
at once honored and loved. Somewhat frail
and delicate in body, it could be said of her
“The sword had outworn its scabbard.” She
passed, we may well believe, “to where be-
yond these voices there is peace.”

Humane Workers’ Fund

We are receiving gifts to the American
Humane Education Society as a trust fund,
the interest to be used for the beneﬁt of
ﬁeld missionaries and others who have
spent their lives in promoting humane
education.

We will welcome your contribution to
this fund. Please make checks payable to
Treasurer, American Humane Education

Society, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, and
specify that the amount contributed is for
the Humane Education Trust Fund.

The Mass. S. P. C. A. also is raising a
special fund to provide, when necessary,
for employees incapacitated for work.

 




 

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS Aug.1934 '

Value of Pets in Child Training

Page 198
Mighty Silver-tip

W. J. BANKS

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

EDWARD J. TUCKER

W, gee, Mums!—I was only giving
‘Beazer’ the gristly bits.”

The situation required careful hand-
ling. Of course we couldn’t have Beazer dis-
turbing our meals. On the other hand, we
had given the terrier to Billy for many
sound reasons, one of the most important
being to develop in him the principle of un-
selﬁshness. Billy had developed it with a
vengeance! He would rather go to bed with-
out his supper, than let Beazer go hungry.
We solved the problem by having the dog
sent from the room, with instructions that
he be given a juicy bone, as compensation
for the indignity.

Joan and I have concluded there are
many positive lessons to be taught children
in a fascinating way, by placing them in
complete charge of pets.

We began with Beazer. We had presented
him to Billy with the understanding that he
was to be responsible for Beazer’s care.
Within a few months we found the experi-
ment so valuable from the point of view
of child-training, that we decided to add
more pets to our household. There followed
in succession four rabbits and two guinea—
pigs, in charge of Billy and Donald; and
two canaries, goldﬁsh and a cat, under the
care of Dorothy and Barbara.

Our experiment with animals and birds
as aids to character-building is two years
old. Joan and I now hold that the greatest
agencies for the education of children are
the church, the home, the school—and pets.

I. Caring for Their Pets has kept our
Children off the Streets

We know where they are after school-
hours. They are either to be found in the
back garden with their animals, or out in
the ﬁeld, not far from the house, gathering
fodder. When their routine duties are done,
the living quarters may need repairing, or
there may be a sick animal that needs atten-
tion. In one way or another, our children
ﬁnd their spare time so happily occupied
with their hobbies, they have no desire to
play in the streets.

2. Caring for Pets has Developed Their
Ingenuity and Initiative

For example. One morning Donald came
running into the house with a dead rabbit
in his arms. There was a small incision in
its throat that spelled “weasel.” Here was
a problem that demanded immediate solu-
tion. The lives of their beloved pets de-
pended upon it! For the rest of the day,
the four children racked their brains for a

plan to humanely combat the weasel evil.
It was Dorothy who solved the problem—
to the satisfaction of the boys—and the wel-
fare of the rabbits.

3. Caring for Pets has Developed Regular
Habits in our Children

It is a rigid rule, clearly understood by
the children, that their pets are to be wa-
tered, fed and cleaned regularly. Otherwise,
the animals must go. This regular routine
keeps the children on their toes. We have
had to check up Billy only once on this
count. Something had attracted his atten-
tion, to the neglect of Beazer’s meals. Billy
was summoned—with Beazer, to the library.
During the investigation, we pointed out
that Beazer was suffering because of Billy’s
negligence. Deliberately drawing attention
to Beazer, who sat on the rug with one ear
drooping and his head cocked saucily, we
broke the news to Billy that his pet would
have to go to Aunt Jane’s in the morning,
because we couldn’t face the thought of his
starving in the garden. Billy gave one look
at Beazer and that was enough. Catching
him up in his arms, he ﬂed tearfully to the
backyard.

4. Caring for Pets has Taught our Children
Thrift and Unselﬁshness

Instead of spending their pennies on can-
dies and movies, the children put them
into a fund reserved for the care of their
pets. There is nearly always something
required for which they are laying aside
their pennies. This year Donald and the
girls pooled their resources with what Billy
had saved, to buy Beazer his license. Last
month the two boys paid for the repairing
of the rabbit-hutch.

After all, this is an experiment that you
must try for yourself. Give your children
pets—but there is one difﬁculty that you
must be prepared to meet. When they have
been in charge of them awhile, they may
want to turn your back garden into a home
for every stray animal in the neighborhood.
Last winter a timid fawn ﬂed for protection
into the ﬁeld next to us, and at once our
children wanted to adopt it. But this is a
problem you will have to settle in your own
way.

Sentiment and nobility and love are
immortal. . . . Tenderness, and loyalty, and
patience, and self-sacriﬁce, and devotion to
duty—these are life’s natural aspirations.

CHANNING POLLOCK

 

 

 

TO OUR FRIENDS

l
l
i
In making your will, kindly bear in mind that the corporate title of our Society is “The
Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals”; that it is the second
incorporated (March, 1868) Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals in the country,
I and that it has no connection with any other similar Society.
1 Any bequest especially intended for the beneﬁt of the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital
9 should, nevertheless, be made to The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
' to Animals “for the use of the Hospital,” as the Hospital is not incorporated but is the
property of that Society and is conducted by it.

FORM OF BE QUEST

I give to.The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (or
; to The American Humane Education Society), the sum of ............................
l dollars ( or, if other property, describe the property).

 

 

HAT a fearsome enemy of man,

according to popular belief, is Silver-
tip, the king of bears! The coming of settle-
ment and repeating riﬂes to the western
hills and valleys has resulted in an alarm-
ing decimation of his numbers. The mighty
grizzly is fallen on evil days, and has
almost disappeared from his former ex-
tensive range except in the protected areas
of national parks and the most remote
regions of the far northern Rockies.

Many awesome tales of unprovoked
attacks by grizzly bears have been told in
justiﬁcation of their ruthless slaughter.
Yet early white visitors to the western
hills seldom regarded Silver-tip as an
enemy. The pioneer mountain men were
willing to respect the grizzly’s desire for
privacy, and their experiences generally
coincided with the views of modern natural-
ists to the effect that Silver-tip will not
attack man without some provocation.

Of course these powerful beasts may at
times have a different idea than the human
intruder as to just what constitutes such
provocation, and to- be on the safe side in
grizzly country it is as well to. give a
grouchy old he-bear or a mother bear with
cubs quite a wide berth. The grizzly cer-
tainly sees no reason why he should give
ground, in his own hunting preserves, to
anything on two legs; and of the four-
footed folk only the tiny skunk can walk
nonchalantly along the trail, sure of the
right-of—way, when Silver-tip wishes to pass.

While an adult grizzly cannot be tamed,
many cubs have been successfully reared as
faithful and harmless pets. Black bears,
usually considered much less dangerous,
often become peevish and unreliable in cap-
tivity; but, strangely enough, a tame grizzly
has never been convicted of treachery.
“Grizzly” Adams, a famous character of
pioneer days in the Rockies, had various
grizzly pets, some of which he trained to act
as watch-dogs and pack animals.

Numerous grizzlies, used to the presence
of man, feed about human habitations in the
national parks. But so great is man’s re-
spect for Silver-tip’s prowess, and so shy
has the latter become in his natural state,
that even yet there are gaps in our knowl-
edge of his life and habits.

 

Our Dumb Animals

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
he Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston Ofﬁce; 180 Longwood Av-
enue.

Address all communications to Boston.

TERMS

One dollar per year. Postage free to any part of
the world.

Humane Societies and Agents are invited to cor-
respond with us for terms on large orders.

All dollar subscriptions sent direct to the office en-
title the sender to membership in either of our two
Societies.

RATES OF MEMBERSHIP IN

THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
OR THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.
Active Life $100 00 Active Annual $10 00
Associate Life 50 00 Associate Annual 5 00
Sustaining 20 00 Annual 1 00
Childrens $0.75

Checks and other payments may be sent to ALBERT
A. PO'LLARD, Treasurer, 180 Longwood Avenue.
Boston.

Manuscripts should be addressed to the Editor,
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston.




 

 

 

Jan. 1934

White Loveliness Moves
North

ROBERT PRICE

URIN G the summer of 1933 the states

north of the Ohio River saw the larg-
est egret invasion in many years. Thous-
ands of these beautiful white herons, which
normally belong to a more southerly range,
were seen in the northern states during the
summer months. Reports have come from
as far north as Toledo, where twenty-ﬁve
were seen at one time.

These birds are chieﬂy the young of the
handsome American egret, one of the larg-
est of our native herons. They have nearly
all been reared below the Mason and Dix-
on’s line, many of them as far south, no
doubt, as the Gulf. After leaving their par-
ents, however, the full-grown ﬂedglings usu-
ally scatter widely, and this year, because
of the extensive drought in the mid-west
which dried up many of the streams and
ponds within their normal feeding range,
they wandered much farther north than
usual.

These white herons were reported in Ohio
as early as July 29 and continued commonly
throughout August and September. Almost
every small stream or pond had its egret
visitor, often several. Some of the larger
bodies of water had them in generous sized
groups. At Youngstown, Ohio, as many as
ﬁfty. were seen in one day.

The American egrets are showy creatures
because of their dazzling white plumage set
off by a jet—black bill and bright yellow legs,
and because of their large size almost
equaling that of their cousins, the great
blue herons. They are a combination of
grotesqueness and grace. Often when stalk-
ing these birds, I have burst out laughing
at the seeming awkwardness of the long
necks which almost tie knots in themselves,
probing for ﬁsh and frogs or grabbing at
some dangling spider. But a moment later
I have thrilled with admiration as the
gangling bird would settle back among the
reeds into an exhibition of exquisitely per-
fect stream-line poise or would ﬂoat off into
the blue with the magic ease of limitless
grace.

The American egrets and their even love-
lier cousins, the snowy egrets of the south,
are now once more regaining the numbers
lost only a few years ago when their plu-
mage was a prized item in fashionable mil-
linery. The cruel story of parent birds slain
by the hundreds while the young perished
in the nests, because the coveted plumes
were ﬁnest only during the brooding sea-
son, is a tale already too well known for
repetition here. Thanks to American bird
lovers, both species have been saved from
extinction.

But even yet the egrets suffer. Their
conspicuous size and color and the little
trouble with which they may be stalked
make them easy targets for thoughtless and
unscrupulous shooters, in spite of the fact
that state and federal laws throw a heavy
protection about them. Only this summer
after having let myself be lured by one of
the handsome birds for nearly a whole
afternoon, I felt in the end that my time
had been indeed well spent when I happened
along just in time to save the unsuspecting
bird from a neighbor’s pistol.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

“I hadn’t never seen one of them ‘cranes’
before,” he explained, “and I wanted a
better look at it.”

There still exist a large number of people
who, when they see a new or unusual bird
or animal in the wild, think only of gaining
possession of it, dead or alive—usually dead!

Not Guilty

“The lady says you deliberately urged
your dog to attack her; that you called
out to him: ‘Seize her! Seize her!’ ”

“Good heavens, ofﬁcer, nothing of the
kind! I was merely calling him off. Caesar
is his name.” —Boston Transcript

Attention is called to the humane ﬁlms,
“On Behalf of Animals” and “The Bell of
Atri,” described in the advertising pages of
this issue.

To a Little Gray Bird

MRS. H. A. D‘ANNECKER

I sought a boisterous waterfall

That hissed and grumbled as it came
Through heaps of rocks twiat cliffs so tall,
For I was weary; nothing tame

Could still the tumult in my heart;

There seemed to be no peace for me.

I hoped in this rude place apart

To ﬁnd a wild, crude sympathy.

I prayed. The water charged and roared.
It seemed, indeed, a fearsome thing.
But light above my head there soared
A wee gray bird on dainty wing.
Then swooping near, it came to rest
Upon a slender, drooping bough
That hung within the rising mist
Above the fall; I wondered how

It could sit there so fearlessly.

And then it sang a lilting air

As gaily and as cheerily

As though there were no danger near.

I found the answer to my prayer

In that sweet song, I learned that peace
Could dwell within in spite of care

That chafes and frets and will not cease.
And ever since that troubled day

I hold in grateful memory

The bird that came to sing and sway
Above the tumult, blithe and free.

 

THE CAT AND THE ROBIN—A RARE FRIENDSHIP

Page 13
A Gift to Ohio’s Outdoors

NE of the most beautiful wild-life sanc-
tuaries in the country is being devel-
oped by Be-man G. Dawes, brother of former
Vice-president Charles G. Dawes, at his
three—hundred-acre e sta te known as
“Daweswood” near Newark, Ohio. Dawes-
wood Arboretum is Mr. Dawes’ personal
hobby, and he is sparing no expense in
bringing it to the point of greatest beauty
and usefulness. The preserve is not only
to serve the wild life: of Ohio, but is also
to become an inspiring national memorial.
Mr. Dawes ﬁrst decided in 1917 to devote
his tract of beautiful rolling hills over-
looking the Licking Valley to the conserva—
tion of wild life. At that time the land was
already well supplied with a ﬁne growth of
native shrubs and hardwoods which have
been carefully preserved. Since then thou—
sands of new tree-s have been added. In
1924 as many as 25,000 were planted at
one time, and there were subsequent plant-
ings on a large scale in 1926 and 1928.

Two nationally famous cartoonists have
done valuable service in the interests of
conservation. They are John T. McCutcheon
and William Ireland. The latter is especi—
ally revered by bird lovers in Ohio for the
long battle which his clever pen has fought
in the interests of the state’s bob-whites.
“The Little Old Lady in the Paisley Shawl”
Ireland calls the quail. When the “Little
Old Lady” was promoted to the Ohio song-
bird list in 1915, Ireland was largely re-
sponsible because of his inimitable cartoons
in the Columbus Dispatch, the state’s larg-
est newspaper, which had won the sym-
pathies of the Ohio public. The large coveys
of bob-whites which wander happily through
the lovely stretches of “Daweswood” must
hold in special veneration the tree there
which commemorates their benefactor. Just
now when the welfare of Ohio quail is wax-
ing a bit precarious again because of a
strong hunters’ lobby in the state legisla-
ture, Ireland’s cartoons may again turn the
tide of public sentiment.

In order to insure the preservation of
the tract, the owner had deeded it in per-
petuity to a' group of trustees with a corps
of foresters prbvided to care for the sanc-
tuary in accordance with all the latest de-
velopments in scientiﬁc forestry. Cabins
and lodges are being built, and a museum
has been established.

On October 20 a
ten-acre plot at the
sanctuary was dedi-
cated b y Governor
George White of Ohio,
together with a party
of state and federal
ofﬁcials, as an experi-
mental forest which
will be operated by
the state department
of forestry. Here for
sometime the forest-
ers have been experi-
menting with every
tree known in the
temperate zone. Some
10,000 seedlings have
been planted. The re-
sults are expected to
be of assistance in
conservation pro-
grams throughout the
country.

Keystone View Co.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Pagel52
Our Dumb Animals

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the revention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston Ofﬁce; 180 Longwood Av-
enue, Boston, Mass., to which all communications
should be addressed.

Dr. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON, Editor
WILLIAM M. MORRILL, Assistant

 

OCTOBER, 1934

 

FOR TERMS, see back cover.

AGENTS to take orders for Our Dumb Animals are
wanted everywhere. Liberal commissions are offered.

EDITORS of all periodicals who receive this pub-
lication this month are invited to reprint any of the
articles with or without credit.

MANUSCRIPTS relating to animals, particularly
prose articles of about three hundred words are solic-
ited. We do not wish to consider prose manuscripts
longer than 800 words, nor verse in excess of thirty-
six lines. The shorter the better. All manuscripts
should be typewritten and an addressed envelope with
full return postage enclosed with each offering.

 

The Animal’s sensitiveness
to Pain

LETTER came to us some days ago

asking, “Do clams or oysters suffer
when they are steamed or cooked?” This
was from one so anxious not to cause suf—
fering to any creature that she had not
forgotten even these two small living things
of the sea that men prize as food. It was not
a foolish question. Far better be too sensi-
tive to causing needless pain than thought-
less or indifferent to what death may mean
even to an insect. N 0 man with the slightest
degree of justice or compassion would tor-
ture a ﬂy. In reply to the query asked us,
we said, “Only a clam or an oyster could
answer your question.” And, as both oyster
and clam would be dead after the experi-
ence no one will probably ever be able to
tell us the real truth of the matter. We did
say in our reply to our correspondent that,
some years ago, we had the pleasure of
dining with David Starr Jordan who was
regarded as the highest authority on ﬁsh
in this country since Agassiz. He said he
did not believe that the ﬁsh, particularly
the oyster or clam, had a sufﬁciently
developed nervous organism to know what
suffering was as we understand it. Was he
right? Who can say without absolute
knowledge that he was wrong.

It is a part of the whole question of
animal suffering. Are animals as sensi-
tive to pain or injury as we are? Dare
we hope that Nature, by no means not
always “red in tooth and claw,” has, real-
izing what life would bring them of ill-
treatment, hunger, thirst, accident, attacks
of enemies, deprived them of much of that
sensitiveness to which we are subject? If
we could only believe this, what a comfort
as we think of the countless generations
through which they have been the victims
of man’s inhumanity in their struggle for
existence? We may, I think, assuredly be-
lieve that they are delivered from the fear
of many ills that man learns to dread and
anticipate. Frightened they are, as they
are driven into the slaughter-pen, but we
can hardly think they realize what awaits
them at the hand of the slaughterer as
does the convicted criminal the punishment
he is to receive. Some quite conﬁdently
tell us that in many instances the attacks
of their natural enemies are accompanied

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

by a kind of hypnotic spell that paralyzes
all consciousness of fear, quoting the testi-
mony of men attacked by wild beasts who
assert that some strange indifference to any
consciousness of danger or death fell upon
them in what they thought their last
mOments. So it is said the bird just before
the reptile strikes is fascinated by its deadly
foe and dies without suffering.

There is no doubt in the minds of those
who have dealt with thousands of animals
in any large animal hospital that horses,
dogs, cats and birds give every evidence
similar to that given by man that they are
suffering in spite of the fact that many cry
out before they are hurt at all. The squeal-
ing pig is a notable example of this;
whether he gives voice to his feelings from
mere fear or whether it is merely a part
of his natural pig nature, it is difﬁcult to
determine when we know he is not in the
least being ill-treated. Some day science
may answer some of these questions for us.
Till then we can do no less than use the
best knowledge we can acquire to guard us
against causing all unnecessary suffering
to every form of life that seems to have
the capacity to experience it.

The Standard Oil Company
of Indiana

N spite of all the protests of the humane

societies, this Standard Oil Company has
continued its exhibition of wild animals at
the Century of Progress. We reproduce
here a letter written recently to the adver-
tising manager of this company. The com-
pany by this time must realize that, what-
ever gain it has made in this kind of adver-
tising, it has certainly been the subject of a
vast amount of very severe criticism.

A number of complaints have again come
in to this ofﬁce relative to the Allan King
show given last Sunday, August 12, about
4:45.

You may remember that Sunday was a
hot day, and the Fair was very crowded.
Complainants state that King used his whip
liberally, slashing one lion, in particular,
across the nose.

Humane organizations realize that you
will probably keep the show going now till
the end of the Fair, but perhaps you will
be kind enough to point out to your trainer
that his treatment of the animals is a
direct Violation of the Humane Laws of the
city and state—see copy enclosed—and that
such deliberate cruelty may do the Standard
Oil Company real harm.

There is a growing indignation among
the farmers who have thronged the Fair
this week over the Allan King act being
done four times daily, especially in the
terriﬁc heat which the city has experienced.
The whole thing is a disgrace to the Com-
pany sponsoring it.

Trusting that you will take the matter
up with Mr. King,

Very truly yours,

 

Believe it or not, the temperature of the
sun near its center is something like 40,-
000,000 degrees Fahrenheit. If we could
take an ordinary twenty-ﬁve cent piece and
heat it to the temperature of the sun’s
center its heat would shrivel up every liv-
ing thing within thousands of miles of it.

 

Oct. 1931;

Commercial Dog and Cat
Foods

F the thousands of dogs and cats

brought annually to our Hospital a
large part of them are sufferers from im-
proper feeding and particularly from feed-
ing the various foods put upon the market,
such as biscuits and canned rations. That
many of these foods cause serious troubles
can be easily understood when the materials
in them are carefully analyzed. Then it is
so much easier, also, to resort to them than
to take the trouble to provide the proper
food in the home that multitudes use them.
That some of these widely advertised foods
are much safer than others, that the ma-
terials used are of better grade and more
sanitarily manufactured is undoubtedly
true. The magazine of the San Francisco
Society in a recent article tells of one
place where food for dogs and cats has
been manufactured and bears out what we
have said in most striking fashion. We
reproduce it here in part:

The discovery of a number of horses in
a most deplorable condition with hardly
any food or water in the corrals of the Dr.
Ross Dog and Cat Food Plant, Los Alamitos,
California, led to a complaint of cruelty to
animals being sworn to by Mr. Fred H.
Bibe, well-known cattleman and ownerpf
Ranchos in Southern California and Ari-
zona. The arrest was made by Ofﬁcer F.
Lee of the Los Angeles S. P. C. A. and
Director McCarrel of the State Humane
Association. A jury was demanded by Dr.
Ross and Glenn Ross and the case tried July
18, lasting three days. The jury disagreed
and a new trial has been ordered by the
Court.

Ofﬁcers stated that over a thousand
horses were brought to the Dr. Ross plant
from Mexico and Arizona in the latter part
of June. The horses did not have sufﬁcient
water and were fed very little if any hay
and that of the poorest quality. Nothing
was done in the way of taking care of crip-
pled horses or diseased ones and all animals
were treated in the most cruel way possible.
Each morning horses which had died during
the night were dragged into the slaughter-
house to be processed for dog and cat food.

Progress in Spain

M. Joaquin Julia, Spain’s devoted hu-
manitarian, writes to the French maga-
zine, La Protection du. Cheval, that before
the adoption of the caparacons, (what we
might call a sort of armor to protect the
horse), it was necessary to have 36 horses
disposable at the commencement of each
bull-ﬁght and that these horses were given
neither food nor drink for from 36 to 48
hours, and that there were weeks when one
or two bull-ﬁghts a week occurred. Now,
since the adoption of the protective device,
at least in Madrid, the public no longer
objects to the arrangement but even de-
mands that any horse seriously wounded be
put to death at once in the arena.

Those wounds heal ill which men do give
themselves. SHAKESPEARE

Sydney Smith once said of Francis
Horner that the commandments were writ-
ten on his face.

 




 

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS Page 31

   

       

1::
q
\

g 4 ‘5"—
f I" 1‘."
m ,

‘5"
5-77
7 z ‘ [I]
4,3,7 :
‘14.

   
 

.\

’1

 

”ll
I I

7
3"
’1

 

 

 

The Zoo - Old Clothes for New

WILLA H‘OEY JANET woon
“I do not like the Zoo!” said a little boy one day——

The tigers and the bears seem to have a different look recently.

“I do not like the way the lions have to stay ll ‘HE changes which some of our smaller animals pass |
Behind those irou bars, when they really ought to roam through and the extreme exertions which they make at
,l

Than the 072168 I like 150 896 in my StOW-bOOk- We have, in a large ﬁsh-bowl, under a pile of rocks, a couple

It’s just because they’re caged, and I do not like the Zoo!

1
The way they used to do, before they left their home. “shedding time,” found Vivid illustration in our own home I
l
of red-bellied newts. I

If I were big like Dad, I know what I would d‘o— . - - _ ' ° _ _
I would send them all back home, just for a glad surprise, These newts, always interesting when 1n Sight have fre

I
l
l
l
l
. , . ,, quent seasons of hibernating, after which, often, one or the
Aud surely that would take the sadness from their eyes. other comes out in a new suit. One evening, recently, it was

M
. late, and the house was very still, when there suddenly began i
(300le and P canut a most tremendous commotion in the ﬁsh-bowl. “Fritzie,” the W
smaller newt, was racing frantically about, dashing in and
M A R Y E L I Z A B E T H B O U C K out, throwing his little body this way and that, in every way l
OOKIE” and “Peanut” are two lively little chipmunks that acting as if he had gone berserk. After about ﬁve minutes of i l
live in Mr. Storekeeper’s woodshed. When Teddy went to thls, a ﬁlmy somethlng, .vaOgue as the shadow of Peter Pan, ll
Heceta Beach, Oregon, to spend his vacation, Mr. Storekeeper detached itself from Fr1t21e’sbody, and dropped away 111130
told him about them. Of course Teddy was very much inter- invisibility. And Fritzie rose resplendent, in a new black and

l
I
ested, and the next morning, right after breakfast, he took orange VéSt- . l'
some crackers and nuts and rushed out to feed them. The next time it was “Sir Isaac” who moulted; and we :
He called and called “Here, Cookie; here Peanut,” but not a were able to lift the cast—off skin, as it fell, and ﬂoat it in a ,
sign of them did he see. He was so disappointed that he was saucer of water, where we could distinguish almost the com-
just ready to leave and go to the sand dunes to play when Mr. plete outline of our little pet.
Storekeeper came out to get some wood. _ﬂ _
“They haven’t come, because they don’t know you, Son,” '
he explained kindly. “They’re probably hiding around
here somewhere so they can watch yOu. They’ll be out by-
and-by.”
With that, Mr. Storekeeper took a piece of Teddy’s
cracker in his hand and began to make a queer little sort , i
of chirping sound. In just a minute the cutest little chip- ' 3

 

 

 

munk appeared as if by magic on the top of the woodpile. ha .
Teddy started to shout “Whoopee!” Then he clapped his - '
hand over his mouth quickly lest he frighten the little
creature. It scampered along the top of the woodpile,
took the cracker from Mr. Storekeeper’s hand, sat up and z /
ate it. Just then another little chipmunk flashed over the
top of the woodpile, snatched a nut from the bag that was .:. . .
resting on a stump, and scampered away to store it for ' " \

the winter.

“N ow they’re coming, son,” said Mr. Storekeeper.
“Just be careful not to frighten them,” and he went back
to the store.

Teddy was delighted. He spread out some nuts in a row /
which led right up to him. Then he kept very still, and t ‘”
sure enough, Cookie and Peanut followed the trail of the 9
nuts taking them one by one till they ate right out of HARVEY
Teddy’s hand. He even coaxed them up on his knee while FULLER”

his mother took a picture.

And such antics as they performed! How they scolded M
each other, and chased each other round and round the . “H
yard, and up and down over the woodpile while Teddy \_ ///
laughed with delight! When all the nuts and crackers m —- 1
'l
l
l:
l

 

 

were gone the little chipmunks vanished. Teddy got up
from the ground with a sigh. “Mother,” he said earnest-
ly, “I’m going to feed Cookie and Peanut every day while
we’re here at the beach.”

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

And he did. HOW MANY BEARS CAN YOU FIND HIDDEN IN THIS PICTURE

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 1’76

For John Galsworthy
KARL FLASTER

Give him a golden pen, 0, God! and give
Him but the whitest clouds to write upon.
He needs no harp; in every heart shall live,
His songs of love and life . . forever on . .
>l< * *

His songs of Life were made for humankind;
His songs of Love, for those that cannot
speak, .
And from his noble heart, he poured a kind
And tender benediction on the weak.

The horse, that feels the wrath of whip and
spur;
The bird, that flees the slaughter of the
gun; _
The laden ass; the faithful, starving cur . . .
He pled their cause with the Eternal
One . . .

He branded the cruel cowardice of “sport,”
That kills and maims to satisfy a whim,
Nor reckons that before God’s Final Court,
The beasts and birds shall show their

wounds to Him!

* * *
Give him a golden pen, 0, God! and give
Him but the whitest clouds to write upon
He needs no harp; in every heart shall live,
His songs of love and life . . forever on . .

When Friends Failed

LESTER BANKS

SHALL use my friend’s ﬁrst name only,

as what I have to say is a very per-
sonal story. At the age of forty, Ronald
found himself a morose- and disappointed
man, a deep-dyed pessimist, in his words.
Disappointed in marriage twice, disillu-
sioned by a sweetheart later, nearly ruined
ﬁnancially by a treacherous business part-
ner, this man seemed to have just cause
for misanthropy, if we ever do.

Ronald had been wealthy until his bus-
iness misfortune, and popular. He says
that he lost at least two dozen “pals” with-
in a week after the ﬁnancial crash, and
that others, as fast as they learned of the
change in conditions, “forgot to be cordial.”

Then Ronald made the mistake that most
“sour” people owe their sourness to; he
decided that there were no sincere people.

He would have retained that viewpoint,
too, had he stayed in the city, because he
was too sore to give any new acquaintances
a chance. But he gathered together the
remnants of his fortune, enough to support

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

himself for the rest of his life, and retired
to his hunting lodge, far back in the Gas-
cades.

He didn’t hunt, had never cared for it.
He read and studied, wrote two books, one
scientiﬁc, the other ﬁction, and spent much
time “with the trees, the streams and an-
imals.” Communion with Nature ripens
a man peculiarly, makes him logical, re-
ﬂective, tolerant. The great tranquillizer,
Nature, revealed to Ronald the pettiness of
personal animosities, the uselessness of
anger and revenge.

His greatest pleasure was his association

with the animals, and before many months
had passed he had a collection, varying
in degree of tameness, but all friendly.

“The greatest lessons of my life,” says
Ronald, “were taught me in those three
years in the wilds, and the greatest lesson
of all was the value of kindness. Time
after time, I found that most any wild
creature will not only make friends with
a man, but be a faithful pal. I cured a
young bear of a bullet wound, inﬂicted by
some careless hunter, and after the young-
ster was well, he licked my hand like a dog,
and liked nothing better than to lie around
near the house. He’d eat out of my hand.”

Animals became Ronald’s hobby—kind-
ness to them and study of its effects. Their
behavior toward each other interested him
deeply, and their patience, fortitude, brav-
ery and pitiful helplessness under some con-
ditions.

Unconsciously, the man was rebuilding
his life. Often he reﬂected that perhaps
he had been a little harsh in his human
relations. Slowly the desire developed to
mingle again with his own kind and try
some of the behavior principles that he had
learned from his dumb friends.

“I felt my strength and wanted to try
it,” Ronald says. “I knew that I could defy
the world to hurt me again, for I had some-
thing I had not possessed before, indes-
cribable but no less dependable, a bulwark
——understanding and tolerance that were
simply too genuine and too big for destruc-
tion. My advice to all the disgruntled and
disappointed people is to get away from
artiﬁciality awhile, study nature and learn
from the so-called ‘lower’ animals.”

Ronald’s readjustment must be thorough,
for he is again established satisfactorily in
business and society.

It was the Great Creator himself who
made dogs too human—so human that some-
times they put humanity to shame.

LAURENCE HUTTON

 

 

 

TO OUR FRIENDS
In making your will, kindly bear in mind that the corporate title of our Society is “The
Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruel
mcorporated (March, 1868) Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals in the country,
and that it has no connection with any other similar Society.
Any bequest especially intended for the beneﬁt of the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital

should, nevertheless, be made to The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals “for the use of the Hospital,” as

property of that Society and is conducted by

FORM OF BEQUEST

I give to The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (or
to The American Humane Education Society), the sum of ..........................

dollars (or, if other property, describe the property).

ty to Animals”: that it is the second

the Hospital is not incorporated but is the
it.

 

 

N02). 193.6
The Husky Does His Part

PERCY B. PRIOR

WELVE years before assisting in the

defeat of the Spanish Armada, Sir
Martin Forbisher sailed with but a small
crew to explore the Northwest Passage.

From this event begins the story of man’s
wrestlings with the white immensities of the
North and South Poles. In the long history
of polar exploration it is the husky or
Eskimo dog that enabled man to achieve his
greatest triumphs.

This year explorers and scientists of forty
nations have united in what may be called
a mass attack on the two Polar regions, and
the expeditions are just starting. Have you
ever wondered why men brave the perils of
the Great White Silence, which is well de-
scribed as twelve million square miles of
changing ice and snow with a death trap
every mile?

They venture forth to win secrets from
the snow, which may be of incalculable bene-
ﬁt to the whole world. First, the weather.
It is well known that the Polar weather
of one year supplies the clue to our weather
the next. If only long-range forecasts could
be given, what joy there would be among
the farmers.

It is hoped also to- ﬁnd valuable informa--
tion concerning the habits of ﬁsh, which
will help ﬁshermen the: world over to ren-
der their calling less precarious. And may-
be some light will be thrown on the vast
mineral wealth which lies close to the North
Pole and might well prove the world’s future
coal supply.

In these modern days adventurers are
greatly helped by airplanes, which enable
the lay-out of the white expanses ahead to
be obtained, and food supplies to be dumped
here and there.

But ground exploration alone can solve
the problems of the frozen climes, and for
this one ally of man—the dog—is indispens-
able. When we think of the Arctic wastes
we should always remember the great-
hearted husky, whose strength of limb and
unfaltering courage has saved many an ex-
plorer fro-m death.

Perhaps, when the Great White Silence is
ﬁnally conquered, a monument will rise from
the snow, commemorating all those dogs
who perished in blinding blizzards and hid-
den crevasses, faithful to the last.

 

Our Dumb Animals

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston Ofﬁce; 180 Longwood Av-
enue.

Address all communications to Boston.

TERMS

One dollar per year. Postage free to any part of
the world.

Humane Societies and Agents are invited to cor-
respond with us for terms on large orders.

All dollar subscriptions sent direct to the office en-
title the sender to membership in either of our two
Societies.

RATES OF MEMBERSHIP IN

THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
OR THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.

Active Life $100 00 Active Annual $10 00
Associate Life 50 00 Associate Annual 5 00
Sustaining 20 00 Annual 1 00

Children’s $0.75

Checks and other payments may be sent to ALBERT
A. POLLARD, Treasurer, 180 Longwood Avenue,
Boston.

Manuscripts should be addressed to the Editor,
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston

 

 




-" ,.

 

 

Apr. 1931;
The Virginia Deer

RAYMOND E. MOORE

HE Virginia deer (camiacus virgini‘

anus), as is well known, has in recent
years become a common spectacle in many
of our northern landscapes. He is one of
the most peculiar and interesting of our
four-footed neighbors. His average length
is a little over ﬁve feet, measured from nose
to root of tail, and his color varies from a
light reddish brown in spring, to a dull
brown in winter. The throat, abdomen, and
inner sides of the long slender limbs are
white. The male or buck is equipped with
long, spreading antlers which are not found
on the doe or female deer.

The deer is a true denizen of the forest.
He chooses his lair in the thickest woods he
can ﬁnd, and there the little spotted fawns
ﬁrst see the light of day. He is, however,
to be found at all seasons roaming the open
country in quest of the choicest food.
Strictly herbivorous in his feeding habits,
he delights to visit rich clover meadows,
and crop the choice grass. He is most fas-
tidious about his grazing, choosing the very
tenderest herbage. In autumn he banquets
upon acorns and beechnuts and, formerly,
chestnuts, and in winter is forced to ﬁnd
sustenance on various buds and berries, or
perhaps he is fortunate enough to discover
a real treasure in a hay or straw stack.

Of all our animal neighbors, the deer is
the most elegant and graceful. I am thrilled
by his surpassing beauty of form, and his
light and supple movements. His attitudes
are always graceful, and he is one of the
greatest poseurs among animals. He evi-
dently doesn’t know the meaning of ordin-
ary walls or fences, skimming over them
with the facility and grace of a bird. His
athletic prowess is scarcely to be surpassed,
as he is the ﬂeetest of runners, the most
graceful of le-apers, and a most swift and
enduring swimmer, cleaving the water with
such rapidity as to leave the most skilfully
propelled row—boat in his wake, and often
swimming a distance of two miles.

Deer are naturally shy and timid ani—

"mals, and the slightest sound, even the

snapping of a dry twig, is generally sufﬁc-
ient to startle them. Although their sight
doesn’t seem to be very keenly developed,
their sense of smell is quite as acute as
their hearing, they can easily follow each
other’s trails solely by means of the scent.

Despite their innate shyness, they often
approach occupied dwellings where there is
an air of quiet pervading the surroundings.
Sometimes a family make their winter head-
quarters about an old unused barn or shed.
They seem to be strongly attached to cer-
tain places or localities, and a very singular
circumstance, which too often proves fatal
to them, is that where they are found one
day, they will generally be found the next,
Within a few yards of the same spot.

It is true that deer inﬂict occasionally
some damage to the farmer’s crops. But I,
for one, am more than willing to share my
growing things with the deer for the thrills
such wild and graceful creatures afford me.
They are a kindred and indispensable part
of my environment—an integral part of my
woods and hills. More than any other ani-
mals I know of, they typify the true Wild.
They are the noble product of virgin forests,
of rolling plains, of the free open spaces.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Page 55

 

The Goats of Newfoundland

EDITH TALLANT

HE dogs of Newfoundland have been

justly honored among their kind, great

picturesque fellows that they are.
The huskies of thefar north have had front
page publicity for their heroic work in
drawing heavy komaticks across the barren
wastes of snow. In Sir Wilfred Grenfell’s
home at St. Anthony, Newfoundland, I have
seen the bronze tablet erected to the three
husky friends he was forced to kill and
skin to save himself from freezing when he
was “Adrift on an Ice Pan.”

But who has written of the Newfound-
land goat? The milk giver which keeps
alive the children of the daring ﬁshermen
on that perilous coast? To be sure one does
not become the intimate friend of a goat.
At least I never succeeded in gaining the
conﬁdence of one. Although I helped chap-
eron four Tagenblatts on the long voyage
from New York to St. Anthony, I parted a
stranger from those aristocrats, imported
by the Grenfell Association to enrich the
native breed.

It is the Nanny to whom I wish to give
my respects. To climb over rocks all day,
nosing out bits of grass, to search for moss
and twigs, to feed on pasture that would
starve a cow, then at night to clamber down
to sea level and give wholesome milk!

Yet Nannie has a good time in her own
way, butting into and investigating her en-
vironment. Father, mother, eve-n the little
kids wear wooden yokes, to keep their hun-
gry noses outside the palings of the precious
gardens. Precious, because in some outports
the women have carried soil from back in
the valleys to ﬁll hollows in the rocks beside
their houses.

One family I visited was mourning the
loss of a young goat. Nanny had dis-
appeared. Vanished. Could a bear have
come down out of the forest behind the
mountain and carried her off? Could she
have slipped into a remote crevice and
starved there? After a week’s search her
boyish owner had abandoned hope. One
afternoon while he was clambering over the
rocky slope behind the cottage, looking for
blueberries, he heard a faint baa. He
called, “Nannie!” The answer seemed to
come from beneath his feet. He knelt down
to peer into the square opening of the root

cellar. In the damp dark below stood
Nanny, lonely but serene. She had feasted
on the potatoes and carrots stored there,
and drunk the water that seeped in from
above. How to get her out? All the neigh-
bors climbed up to- stare and make sugges-
tions. I advised waiting until the men re-
turned from their traps at sea. But her
mistress lowered herself down the rickety
ladder, caught Nannie in her arms, and
with a mighty thrashing of hoofs and horns
boosted her once more into daylight. With
a whisk of her tail Nannie was off, looking
for blueberries herself.

Dogs and goats cannot exist together.
The great huskies, always hungry, are kept
clogged or chained in the daytime, while
the goats are turned loose to feed. Where
the goats can be securely penned in at night
the dogs are allowed to run free. The
tinkling bells of feeding goats, the mourn-

'ful howl of imprisoned dogs are as char-

acteristic of Newfoundland as the smell of
drying codﬁsh and the damp saltiness of
the sea breeze.

When in the isolation of a northern win-
ter the supply of dried ﬁsh is exhausted,
hunting fails and no seals come near the
shore, Nannie must be sacriﬁced for food.
Her family may feel like cannibals, but she
saves their lives. No wonder they pet her.
One goat of my acquaintance comes every
morning to the same rock beside “the
bridge” as these seafaring folk call their
verandas, to have a little visit and a bit of
bread with her mistress.

Nannie deserves not only the bread. Like
her brave owner she deserves the respect
due from those who live easily to those who
struggle gamely against the hostile forces
of nature.

Cartoon Prize Contest

A ﬁrst prize of $50 and a second prize of
$25 are offered by the American Humane
Education Society for the best cartoons
illustrating kindness to animals, published
in any periodical from now to May 15,
1934. So far as possible, the cartoons should
appear during Be Kind to Animals Week,
April 16—21, and Humane Sunday, April
15. See March issue for full particulars.

 

 

 




 

 

Page 12

Bird Life at Sea

Many Storm-tossed Waifs qFind Safety

on Passing Vessels
A R T H U R H A Y E S

HAT trans-Atlantic ﬂying is not en-

tirely conﬁned to aviators and seagulls,
is a fact that was recently brought to my
attention by the feathered actors in this
little drama. The vessel to which I was
attached had been trading steadily between
the little island of Curacao, in the Dutch
West Indies, and Fall River, Massachusetts,
and we usually completed a round trip be-
tween these two places in twenty days. On
the run between Mona Passage and Block
Island, it was a rare voyage indeed that we
did not have one or more birds land on the
ship, seemingly glad of the temporary haven
our vessel afforded them. Distance to the
nearest point of land over this route ranges
from 250 to 500 miles, so it is interesting
to speculate on the reasons for the birds
being so far from their natural haunts.
The instinct of self-preservation is highly
developed in animal and bird life, so it
appears doubtful that birds would set off
on a purely adventurous ﬂight across such
a large body of water as the Atlantic. There-

fore, a reasonable supposition is that in.

winging their way north or south over the
coast line, they are caught in a strong off-
shore breeze, and, unable to land, are carried
out to sea. The evidence seems to support
this latter theory, as I have observed that
during and after strong winds from the
north-west quadrant, their numbers were
greatly multiplied.

The smaller birds seemed to predominate,
and I recall seeing at various times, robins,
sparrows, meadow-larks, snipe, and thrush,
to mention some of the North American
species that I was able to recognize on sight,
1n addition to many tr0pical birds with
which I was unfamiliar. Among the larger
birds, I have seen hawks, eagles, crows, car-
rier pigeons, and a crane. One ﬂock, con-
s15ting of some two dozen birds of the same
species, boarded us at a point two hundred
miles north of Haiti and stayed on and
about the ship for four days, or until we
had moved in fairly close to the American
coast. They had gray and black striped
backs with yellow breasts and looked not
unlike canaries, possibly a little larger.

One characteristic seemed to be common
to.near1y all the species: tameness, and, in
thls connection, it seems to me somewhere
in the dim past I have viewed a painting
that showed a snake, a hare, and a cat,
huddled close together on a log, in a ﬂooded
area; suggesting, I suppose, that while the
primal instinct is uppermost, ancient en-
m1t1es are forgotten. As I say, the birds
after an hour or two aboard proved quite
tame, ﬂying and perching in and about the
oﬂicers’ rooms and the crew’s quarters and
in a short time feeding out of hand. An-
other favorite gathering place for them was
the galley, which proved they knew their
onlons, or I should say, their crumbs.

On one occasion, a chipper little fellow
afforded some comedy relief. He was pure
gray over all with legs about three inches
long, and larger than a Wilson’s snipe. The
sallors had dubbed him “Pete.” Pete stayed
w1thus a week, getting free passage from
Haltl to the States, and became quite tame
en. route, fussing and fretting about the
sallors as they played cards, and perching

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

DOWNY WOODPECKER AT FEAST

Suet placed under the bark or in holes
in tree trunks will attract this active little
bird. He will rid your trees of harmful
insects.

 

on their shoulders.

On the second day Pete was aboard, he
had stepped into a bucket of black paint,
and this gave him the appearance of wear-
ing a pair of black socks. As I watched him
hopping about the deck, he would pause
occasionally and lift ﬁrst one and then
the other leg, and examine them closely, at
the same time (so it seemed to this ob-
server) shaking his head, as though ex-
pressing doubt that he would ever be the
same again.

Seagulls seldom board and ride vessels
along the Atlantic coast, and in this re-
spect they are different from their Paciﬁc
Ocean brethren. It is not unusual along the
Paciﬁc coast to have as many as ﬁfteen or
twenty gulls perched about the vessel at
the same time, and south of Cape Cor-
rientes, one sees many of them perched on
the backs of giant turtles, of which there is
a plentiful supply in that vicinity.

A homing pigeon boarded our ship re—
cently, when we were some ﬁve hundred
miles from the nearest point of land. He ﬂew
directly into the chart room, and landed on
the chart table, apparently exhausted. We
kept him aboard until we were within sight
of Block Island, then released him. He
took position again on the bridge, and re-
fused to leave the ship until we had passed
inside Narragansett Bay. Then, taking the
air, he circled the ship twice, and made off
in the general direction of Boston.

Looking back over eighteen years spent
in traveling the sea lanes of the world, it
is nice that I am able to say that I can re-
call no instance in which birds seeking
sanctuary at sea have been ill-treated, im-
prisoned, or otherwise molested. In fact, I
can safely say that the very opposite is
true, and this is, I submit, as it should be.

 

Jan. 1931;

. . ,,
“ Hellx” and “Felix
Being the Saga of the Clan Hortensis;
New England’s Olidest Family

KADRA MAYSI

PON a recent visit to historic and

aristocratic Boston, it was my prlvi-
lege to meet two surviving members of thls
city’s oldest family—a. family whose lineage
is traced beyond that of any passenger upon
the Mayﬂower’s illustrious sailing list.

I made the acquaintance of “Helix” and
“Felix” in a drawing room at Jamaica
Plain, whence the-y had come, by automo-
bile, from Duxbury Beach. They appear to
be twins in size; but one is blond, the other
dark, one is vivacious and the other lan-
guorous.

Possibly, the last qualities are governed
by temperature. For “Helix” and “Felix”
are snails—of the rare variety Helix Hor-
tensis—and they live in a. glass bowl and
enjoy lettuce both in and out of season.

Duxbury Beach, on the South Shore, and
Magnolia Beach, on the North Shore,
are—so far as naturalists know—the only
places in all the world where the Helix
Hortensis is now found alive. In Norway
and Spitzbergen, geologists discover them
as fossils. But, under the New England
pines, close by Massachusetts Bay, they live
and love today—and (for all we know)
laugh.

They are land snails, not sea snails. How,
then, did they cross the Atlantic?

The answeris that they crossed, not At—
lantic, but Atlantis.

Eons ago, by a lost continent now sunk
beneath the steamship lanes, Helix Horten-
sis pioneers walked, dry shod, from Europe
to America.

Who knows what sent that ﬁrst adven-
turer out toward the setting sun? Perhaps
Spitzbergen and Norway were overpopu-
lated. Perhaps some bold snail spirit heard
a voice: “Go west, young man.” Perhaps the
trail was broken by a disappointed love-r or
a disgraced leader of the clan. .

We shall never know; for the H elix Hor-
tensis—whatever their sins may be—have
never been known to discuss family affairs
with outsiders.

There was a third member when these
aristocrats moved from Duxbury; and this
third was recently taken, by autobus, from
Boston to California. If he (or she) wrote
back to his (or her) brothers (or sisters),
the letter would, assuredly, read somewhat
like this:

“Think, my dears, of any self-respecting
snail crossing a whole continent in six days!
Times have changed—and for the worst——
since our ancestors emigrated from Scan-
dinavia. Do you not remember that our
great-grandfather told us that his great-
great-grandfather told him that crossing
Lost Atlantis took exactly six centuries? In
a family as old as ours, a few cycles are
mere interlude. For the last ten thousand
years, the heraldic device of the H elix Hor-
tensis has been: vert, an iceberg lettuce
leaf, rampant, with our motto, in Icelandic,
traced beneath: More haste, less speed; but
we get there just the same.”

Our readers are urged to clip from “Our
Dumb Animals” various articles and re-
quest their local editors to republish.
Copies so mutilated will be made good by
us upon application.

 

 

 




 

SEPTEMBER l934 PRICE IO CENTS

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THE JOYS 0F FEEDING TIME

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

y, _. ._._.q4..-.,

 

 

THE MASSACHUSETTS SOCIETY FOR THE

PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS. ,
AND THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

Oct. 1931;

 

Founded by Geo. T. Angel]. Incorporated March, 1868

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds

JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board

CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President, United Shoe
Machinery Corporation

PHILIP STOCKTON, President, First National Bank of
Boston

Prosecuting Ofﬁcers in Boston

Telephone (Complaints, Ambulances) Longwood 6100
L. WILLARD WALKER, Chief Ofﬁcer

HARRY L. ALLEN DAVID A. BOLTON
HARVEY R. FULLER HOWARD WILLAND

County Prosecuting Ofﬁcers
HERMAN N. DEAN, Boston
__ Middlesex, Norfolk and Plymouth
FRED T. VICKERS, Lynn Eastern Essex
WILLIAM W. HASWELL, Methuen Western Essex
THEODORE W. PEARSON, Springﬁeld
Hampden, Hampshire and Franklin
ROBERT L. DYSON, Worcester Worcester
WINFIELD E. DUNHAM, New Bedford Bristol
HAROLD G. ANDREWS, Hyannis,
Barnstable, Dukes and Nantucket
T. KING HASWELL, Pittsﬁeld Berkshire
Rest Farm for Horses and Small Animal Shelter,
Methuen
W. W. HASWELL, Superintendent
Women’s Auxiliary of the Mass. S. P. C. A., 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston—MRS. EDITH WASHBURN

CLARKE, Pres.; MRS. A. J. FURBUSH, Treas.; MRS.
AGNES P. FISHER, Ch. Work Com.

Springﬁeld Branch—MRS. DONALD C. KIBBE, Pres.;
MRS. AARON BAGG, Treas.

Winchester Branch—MRS. RICHARD S. TAYLOR,
Pres.; MISS BESSIE SMALL, Treas.

MONTHLY REPORT OF SOCIETY
AND BRANCHES

Miles traveled by humane oﬂicers . 13,802
Cases investigated ............... 447
Animals examined ............... 2,554
Animals placed in homes. . . ...... 66
Lost animals restored to owners. . . 19
Number of prosecutions ........ . 10
Number of convictions ........... 10
Horses taken from work. ........ 21
Horses humanely put to sleep ..... 50

Small animals humanely put to sleep 2,191

Stock-yards and Abattoirs

Animals inspected ............... 66,699
Cattle, swine and sheep humanely
put to sleep ................... 12

The Massachusetts Society for the Pre-
vention of Cruelty to Animals has been re-
membered in the will of Miss Arabella Ames
of Onset.

September 11, 1934.

Sometimes a kind word is all we can
give ’em, poor brutes, and ’tis wonderful
what they do understand.

From “Black Beauty”

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

ANGELL MEMORIAL ANIMAL
HOSPITAL

and Dispensary for Animals

184 Longwood Avenue Telephone, Longwood 6100
Veterinarians

. DAILEY, v.M.D., Chief of Stajj‘

. SCHNEIDER, v.M.D., Asst. Chief

. SCHROEDER, D.V.M.

. SCHNELLE, v.M.D.

. MUNSON, v.M.D.

. BLAKELY, v.M.D.

HARRY L. ALLEN, Superintendent

Springﬁeld Branch
53—57 Bliss Street, Springﬁeld, Mass.
THEODORE W. PEARSON, General Manager
Veterinarians

A. R. EVANS, v.M.D.
H. L. SMEAD, D.V.M.

PEPEFE
bowwmw

 

 

 

HOSPITAL REPORT FOR AUGUST
Including Springﬁeld Branch

Hospital Dispensary
Cases entered 821 Cases 2,577
Dogs 605 Dogs 2,071
Cats 201 Cats 450
Birds 8 Birds 49
Horses 6 Rabbits 6
Rabbit 1 Horse 1

Operations 893
Hospital cases since opening, Mar.
1, 1915 .................... 122,519
Dispensary Cases ............. 285,522
Total ...................... 408,041

The Month in the Springﬁeld Branch

Cases entered in Hospital ........ 127
Cases entered in Dispensary ...... 325
Operations ..................... 175

Horse Watering in Boston

Five watering stations for horses were
made available by the Massachusetts S. P.
C. A. in Boston during the hot weather from
June 26 to Sept. 8, when the service was
discontinued. Men were employed at each
station to assist in giving water to the ani-
mals. The records Show that 18,587 pailfuls
were supplied during a 63—day period.

The absence of convenient watering places
where teaming horses are still used in con-
siderable numbers makes it incumbent upon
the humane organizations annually to pro-
vide this simple but imperative need.

Taunton Branch

The ﬁnancial report of the Taunton
Branch of the Massachusetts S. P. C. A.
for the year 1933—34 shows total receipts
of $1,329.07 and total expenditures of
$1,136.65. The balance, added to that of
the previous year, leaves $299.24 new in
the treasury.

. . . Showing how man, who prays
For mercy to the gods, is merciless,
Being as god to these; albeit all life
Is linked and kin, and what we slay have
given
Meek tribute 0f the milk and wool, and set
Fast trust upon the hands which murder
them.
SIR EDWIN ARNOLD

Page 153

Annual Fair, December 12

HE annual Fair of the Women’s Aux—

iliary of the Mass. S. P. C. A. will
be held at the Copley Plaza Hotel, Boston,
Wednesday, December 12, 1934. New and
interesting features are promised for this
year. Those wishing to send contributions
of articles or cash should address them to
Mrs. A. J. Furbush, treasurer of Women’s

Auxiliary, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston.

Cuba and Bull-fighting

A letter from the Department of State,
Washington, contradicts the report that our
representative in Havana, Mr. Caf'fery, has
been connected with the effort to re-estab-
liSh bull—ﬁghting in Cuba, and further says
that there is no deﬁnite indication that bull-
ﬁghting in Cuba is in immediate prospect,
chieﬂy because of the capital required to
equip and re-establish a sport which has not
ﬂourished since Cuba’s independence.

MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A. IN THE
COURTS

Summary of Prosecutions in August

For inﬂicting unnecessary suffering upon
twenty-two sparrows which he had caught
in a trap and allowed some to die of starva-
tion, a defendant was convicted after a
plea of nolo. He was ﬁned $25 and glven
two weeks’ time to pay.

For failing to provide sufﬁcient feed for
forty-ﬁve head of cattle a farmer was found
guilty and was sentenced to the House of
Correction for two months. He appealed
and in Superior Court pleaded guilty and
sentence was changed to a ﬁne of $50.

For selling a horse which was In unﬁt
condition for labor, defendant pleaded not
guilty. He was found guilty and the case
was placed on ﬁle.

One who had charge and custody of. a
dog was found guilty of failing to pI'OVlde
animal with proper food, drink and shelter.
He was ﬁned $25 which was suspended for
one year.

For cruelly driving a horse, a youth of
sixteen years was found guilty. He was put
on probation for one year after making res-
titution to the owner in the sum of $15.
Upon a similar charge (cruelly drIVIng)
another youth of the same age was found
guilty and given probation for one year.

Driving a horse with sores on shoulder
and back, offender was found guilty and
case was ﬁled. .

For cruelly Shooting at and wounding a
dog and leaving it to suffer until despatched
by ofﬁcer, a defendant was ﬁned $25.

For torturing a dog by applylng turpen-
tine to tender parts of body, an offender
was sentenced to one month in House of
Correction. .

An offender was charged with knowmgly
and wilfully subjecting a horse to unneces-
sary cruelty. He had allowed horse to he at
point of starvation, and until humane ofﬁcer
found and despatched animal. He was
found guilty and case was ﬁled. ‘

For inﬂicting tortures upon a horse whlch
was'lame and galled and whose body was
lacerated and punctured by a sharp Instru-
ment and in a septic condition, a. defendant
was ﬁned $200. He was committed to jail
upon failure to raise ﬁne. .A week later ﬁne
was paid minus $3 whlch offender had
worked out in jail.

 

 

 

 

 




 

DECEMBER |934 PRICE IO CENTS

 

 

 

 

 

 

maria, martin: «Ebristmagl

 

 

 

 

 

 

THE MASSACHUSETTS SOCIETY FOR THE

~ PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS
AND THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY

 

 

 




 

 

 

Jan. 1931;

.—

341!" 0.;

 

i/l

' . ”a: .n
O ‘\§§I
Q9 I11. '

_\..‘~
..

lg

£ :33?"

v ‘\E¢. " - ,¢

Ila' ‘ ‘-
II" "{ﬂ‘.
'
«ea 3.‘
. \

 

‘ Relief for Winter Birds

@ UR winter birds have their time of depression during the
cold winter months when ice and snow cover their food
supply. Now that relief is the order of the day, let us also give
a little relief to our winter birds. Careful observation has
shown me how hard they must work for their winter food, and
they too need relief, even as you and I.

Take the crumbs and leavings from your table and place
them out—of-doors where the birds can find them. Scatter
grain and seeds on window-ledges and other suitable places.
A cabbage head hung somewhere out-of-doors will, satisfy
the birds’ hunger for something green. If you live near or
on a farm, a sheaf of grain placed on some accessible point
will cause a commotion.

Why not place a feeding-table for the birds in some sheltered
nook near your home and watch your dinner guests? You
will be surprised at the number of visitors you will have, and
how hungry they are. Having fed once, they will return day
after day, bringing more birds with them. Watch them care—
fully and you will note that they will not eat everything at
once but will fly away with the larger pieces of food. These
pieces are stored away for future use, possibly in some hollow
tree or underneath some loose bark. They, too, know the ne-
cessity of an extra food supply. These little winter birds add
lifeand joy to dull winter days. Don’t forget him when King
Winter reigns. CONRAD O. PETERSON

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

 

 

 

 

; I, ,

U. ' iii"

,' 4: i" I.

I“ .345”. with

olilL'il l..4 l

'I

 

  
 

$
U . \

. \“Q‘u‘! '1‘...”
' §§

 

 

 

Inseparable Friends

THE cream—colored pony, “Rocco,” and the woolly brown
poodle, “Don,” had a long, happy life together on their
moor beside the sounding sea. The two animals were insepa-
rable pals. The poodle loved to follow his pal, the buckskin
pony, and to frolic through the fields and paths with him, or
to follow the pony cart through long hours. Occasionally
he would run ahead under the pony’s nose, and the pony
would nudge him tenderly. Neither his little mistress nor
her mother could go into the garden for a minute without
seeing a brown head peering from behind a bush to see if
they were going for a walk. He lived to be twelve.

Don had some cute tricks of his own, but his little mis-
tress hated the idea of cruelly forcing animals to do tricks.
So neither he nor Rocco were ever made to perform to fur-
nish amusement for people. One funny thing Don would do
was to lie on his back like a bear and comb his brown curly
face with. his paws. Every morning he licked the pony’s
nose as if he were giving him a good-morning kiss.

Rocco was a bright Shetland pony that voyaged direct

 

 

 

from the Shetland Islands, shortly after his birth in 1900.
He was very small and had a very affectionate disposition.
Somewhere he had learned to shake hands. He lived to be
thirty-three years of age. The picture shoWs the two pets
with their mistress, Marieanne Morrill of Gloucester, Mass.

Two Men and Their Horses

If you saw a man with a nice fat horse,
And then another you’d see,

Whose horse was afraid and looked very poor——
Which horse would you rather be?

 

And then suppose, in the whole wide world,
There were no men but these two,

Which man would you choose to be your friend,
Which one would be kind and true?

ETHEL FAIRMONT in “Rhymes for Kindly Children,”

HOW MANY CATS CAN YOU FIND HIDDEN IN THIS PICTURE? (P. F. Volland & 00., ChicagO)

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

Page 11;
@1112 Earth nf merry

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary
E. A. MARYOTT, State Organizer
PLEDGE
I will try to be kind to all living creatures and
try to protect them from cruel usage.

A erican Humane Education Society will send
torlelxizry Iiierson who forms a band of Mercy of thirty
members, and sends the name chosen for the _Band and
the name and post-ofﬁce address of the preSIdent who
has been duly elected, special Band of Mercy literature
and a gilt badge for the preSIdent. .

See inside front cover for prices of literature and
Band of Mercy supplies.

NEW BANDS OF MERCY

Seven hundred and eighty-six new Bands
of Mercy were reported during November.
Of these, 202 were in Massachusetts, 176 in
Illinois, 99 in Vermont, 88 in Georgla, 53 1n
Virginia, 46 in Pennsylvania, 32 in Rhode
Island, 31 in North Carolina, 29 1n Texas,
19 in South Carolina, six in Tennessee, and
one each in Arkansas, Florida, New York,
West Virginia, and Argentina.

Total number Bands of Mercy organized
by Parent American Society, 198,078

Bird Perches in the Garden

ANY of the plants commonly grown
in gardens require the support and
guidance of stakes. Ordinarily, the stakes
are made just long enough for the prlmary
purpose; but by giving them greater height
an excellent secondary purpose may be
served—attraction for birds. The stakes do
not have to be of extreme height, but the
higher they are the better. The prech, some
small landing place that our ﬂying friends
will ﬁnd convenient, is of more importance.
An imitation bird on the perch is the
best of all attractions; most kinds of birds
are gregarious. And the size and colors
should be true to nature. Draw the bird’s
picture on a pine board, then cut it out
with a keyhole saw—or take the job to a
planing mill. Screw the bird to the perch.
Suppose you choose the goldﬁnch; you
will need two paints, canary—yellow and
black. A coat of varnish will give a last—
ing ﬁnish, but spar varnish should be used,
so as to stand the rain and sun. Paint the
stake a grass green. L. E. EUBANKS

Squirrel Converts Hunter

Charles A. Pelkey of West St., Ware, a
veteran hunter and fisherman, while boat—
ing on Beaver Lake, picked up a gray
squirrel and gave the animal a ride. Be-
cause of the confidence shown by the
squirrel, Mr. Pelkey said he would never
again shoot another of the species. He was
in the center of the lake when he noticed a
gray squirrel in the water, headed for the
west shore of the half—mile-wide pond. He
had never seen one of these creatures
attempt such a swim, and curious to see the
finish, he followed. The squirrel seemed
1n difficulty, and apparently realizing it
could not make the shore, turned and swam
directly for the boat. Mr. Pelkey took the
nearly . exhausted animal into the boat,
where It quickly recovered and sat quietly
until the boat reached shore, when it left
Without undue haste and scampered into the
woods. ——Boston Globe

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Get Somebody Else

Arranged from PAUL LAWRENCE DUNBAR

The Lord had a job for me, but I had so
much to do,

I said, “You get somebody else or wait ’till
I get through.”

I don’t know how the Lord came out—no
doubt He got along—

But I felt kind 0’ sneakin’ like! I knew
I’d done God wrong.

One day I needed the Lord—~needed Him
right away;

But He never answered me at all, and I
could hear Him say

Down in my accusini heart, “Child, I’ve got
too much to do; '

YOU get somebody else, or wait ’till I ge
through.” . - '

Now when the Lord has a job for me, I
never try to Shirk.

I drop what I have on hand and do the
Lord’s good work;

And my aﬂairs can run along or wait ’till
I get through.

Nobody else can do the work that God
has marked out for you.

“Our Animals” of Australia

“Our Animals” is the title of anew
humane publication issued by the Victorian
Society for the Protection of Animals, Mel-
bourne, Australia. The initial number (Sep-
tember) of sixteen pages with illustrated
front cover in colors contains many con-
tributed articles of merit and information
of instructive value relating to the work of
the Society which has functioned success-
fully for the past sixty-two years. We ex-
tend a cordial greeting and best wishes to
our distant contemporary and bespeak for
it a wide circulation both at home and
abroad.

Jan. 1931;
Tall Jobs for Cats

Editorial in Christian Science Monitor

HESE are vast days. Conceptions of

the universe have broadened tremen-
dously, and even cats are taking on the big—
ger point of View. If cats with home-s in
skyscrapers could be built on proportional
scale, they would be as tall as giraffes. But
while buildings grow taller, cats’ whiskers
stay just as close to the ﬂoor as ever, and
cats’ duties have skyrocketed.

The cat patrol used to be limited to two
or three floors and the cellar. Now it may
extend to thirty or sixty stories and more.
Even the cellar has lost its simplicity. Sky-
scrapers usually possess several sub-base-
ments besides the regular ones.

Yet skyscraper cats take their new re-
sponsibilitie. easily, according to their
friends of the building staﬂ". One big
yellow fellow with a beat of thirty-nine
stories in Chicago specializes on its sub-
terranean domain and on the twenty-fifth
ﬂoor. That ﬂoor contains a fashionable
restaurant. The steward counts on the cat
for protection and rewards it fittingly. The
cat, riding up in the elevator, will get off
at no floor except the twenty—fifth. Hav-
ing done guard duty there it descends by
elevator to resume its operations in the
four-storied cellar.

The main thing evidently is not to get
worried about what a cat has to do. If a
cat started to think of all the rooms in
which there might be mice, and all the
basements in which there were sure to be, it
could rarely purr again. But, on the con-
trary, it philosophically ignores non-essen-
tials and lives up to its reputation for in-
dependence. ’

It is the unnatural, abnormal tricks ani-
mals are compelled to perform that were
taught them in a school of cruelty. First
and foremost it has been the purpose of the
Jack London Club to put an end to them.

 

IS THERE AN OLDER HORSE IN MASSACHUSETTS?

“Roger,” 43 years old, owned by Alfred Wayland Cutting, Wayland, Mass. The
horse still carries Mr. Cutting in carryall or sleigh on his two-mile trip to the village
post-ofﬁce at least once a day. Both are very fond of children.‘ Roger was formerly on
a mllk team for 20 years. He has always had the best of care.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 32

Stevenson’s Great Kindness

ARTHUR HEDLEY

N reading the biography of Robert Louis
Stevenson, one is deeply impressed with
his noble humanitarian spirit. He showed
such kind, tender, generous feelings towards
all his fellows and was prepared to spend
his last penny to help another in need. His
thought and care for God’s dumb creation
was a very beautiful feature of his char-
acter. From youth, till the last days of his
short romantic life, he was ever the lover
and champion of those who could not defend
themselves.

In his childhood he revealed a deeply
sensitive soul and the sight of anything in-
human ﬁlled him with distress. When a lad
his Mother found him alone in the study in
sore trouble. His eyes were red and swollen,
and he was sobbing bitterly. On seeking
the cause of his sorrow she found it was
through reading a cruel story in a book.

When living in Paris as a young man, he
became quite a bird fancier and revealed a
great love 'for certain diminutive birds.
Writing to his mother he said, “There is
only one sort of bird that I can tolerate
caged, though even then I think it hard,
that is what is called in France the Bec-d
’Argent. I once had two of these pigmies
in captivity; and in the quiet, bare house
upon a silent street where I was then liv-
ing, their song, which was not much louder
than a bee’s, but airily musical, kept me in
a perpetual state of good humor. I put the
cage upon my table when I worked, carried
it with me when I went for meals, and kept
it by my bed at night.” He tells of the great
joy he experienced on awakening in the
morning when he heard these “maestrini”
tuning up.

Until his marriage he never really
owned a dog. With a touch of humor he
said that all dogs in Hevriot Row, Edin—
burgh, where his family lived, were so gen-
erously treated by his father that they all
seemed to claim him as their own. On his
marriage he was presented with a black
Skye terrier by Sir Walter Simpson. This
dog, which became a much loved member of
the family, was ﬁrst called “Wattie” after
the Doctor, then “Woggs,” and ﬁnally its
original name became unrecognizable as
“Bogue.” This dog was a person of great
character and entirely attached to his mas-
ter and mistress. When living in Bourne-
mouth he became the inseparable friend of
his devoted master. Here Bogue met with a
tragic end. Whilst recovering from wounds
received in battle he escaped from hospital
in a maimed state and attacking a more

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

powerful dog than himself, perished in the
fray. His master and mistress were incon-
solable and never, even in Samoa, could they
bring themselves to allow any successor.

Stevenson’s noble thoughts and feelings
towards dumb creatures is strikingly re-
vealed in an incident which took place in
Pittochry when 30 years of age. Walking
along the street, he saw a man ill-treating
a dog and at once his spirit was roused
within him. He made a strong protest
which the owner angrily resented, “It’s not
your dog,” he snapped. “No” replied Stev-
enson with strong indignation, “It’s God’s
dog, and I’m here to protect it.” r'He re-
garded all creatures as God’s possessions
and felt himself responsible to God for their
welfare. Weak though he was himself, he
championed the cause of dumb animals even
at the risk of injury to himself. The moral
indignation which blazed from his eyes si-
lenced and cowed the biggest bully.

Towards the end of his life he had been
away on a visit to Apia, and on his return
to Samoa, he found some natives greatly
interested and highly amused at two dogs
engaged in a ﬁerce ﬁght. He plunged into
the midst of them and turned to rebuke
them. His resentment was so great that for
the moment he could not speak to them in
their language and all he could say was,
“Pala’ ai, Pala’ ail” (Cowards, Cowards.)

We are not surprised that this man with
the kindly heart and compassionate spirit
was loved and respected by all. His friend-
ship was coveted by rich and poor. The ﬁn-
est and most eloquent tribute paid to him
was that of the Samoan chiefs whom he had
befriended whilst they were in prison. On
their release they dug and completed the
road that led to his house and named it
“Ala Toto Alofa”——“The Road of the Lov-
ing Heart.”

Quick Witted

K. M. YATES

THE quickest thinking that ever came
under my notice, was done by an ani-
mal, a wild goat. I happened to be stand-
ing upon the top of a precipitous crater
some eight hundred feet high. Below us,
perhaps two hundred feet down, the sides
were cut into ridges running steeply down
to the levels and the sea, and some of them
extending only a little way and then drop-
ping oﬂ" abruptly into the perpendicular for
hundreds of feet. The ridges were mere
narrow combs, sharp on the top and falling
away sheer on both sides, into the deep
gorges.

As we stood looking down, we noticed

 

 

TO OUR FRIENDS

In making your will, kindl bear in mind tha e ' ' ° “
Massachusetts Society for thSe Prevention of Cidgltycgbpmifia‘lgiﬁ our Somety IS The
incorporated (March, 1868) Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals in the country
and that it has no connection with any other similar Society. ’

Any bequest especrally intended for the beneﬁt of the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital
$303.13: gesvergclnrelgs, be mad: to I_’I1‘he.lcVI1as,sachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty

use 0 e as 1 a ' ' ' '
property of that Society and is conducted til; illle Hospital is not incorporated but is the

that it is the second

FORM or BEQUEST

I give to The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention f C '
to The American Humane Education Society), the sum of. . .0 . . . ru e 1ty t i). If??? (or

dollars (or, if other property, describe the property).

 

 

Feb. 1931;

that there were, scattered about, several
ﬂocks of wild goats climbing sure-footedly
over the precarious ledge-s of lava where it
seemed impossible that a foothold could be
found. I was wondering how they kept
from tumbling off in every direction, when
one of the party remarked: “Oh, no! Those
fellows can run like the wind all over these
ledges just as if they were on leVel ground.
Now watch them,” and he dropped a bit of
lava over the edge among the ﬂock below us.

The ﬂock consisted of eight or ten goat-s,
among them a brown nanny with a kid
exactly like her, and another white nanny
with two tiny black—and-white kids close be-
side her; and with them a great big shaggy
black billy. When. our missile dropped
among them, they glanced upward; and then
were off like a ﬂash. “Look at ’em go!”
shouted my companions, as the goats dashed
away in every direction, scattering like
leaves down the various ridges, and with
never a stumble or a misstep. And then, all
at once, we saw the beginning of a tragedy.
The white nanny with the two kids had, in
her fright, chosen one of the ridges which
terminated in a straight drop-off of several
hundred feet, and was dashing down it
wildly and with tremendous impetus, fol-
lowed by the kids, close at her heels. The
moment was tense. Nothing could save
them. And then, suddenly, the black billy
saw;—— and the thinking that he did was
like a ﬂash of lightning. He turned as on a
pivot, came back beneath us and went thun-
dering down that narrow comb behind the
nanny and her kids, like a black spectre.
There seemed nothing that he could do; and
scarcely yet do I know what he did; for the
comb seemed too narrow for even one, let
alone for anything to passz—but he did
pass them like a cyclone and out upon the
ridge in front of them, making it at less
than ten feet of the point, and on down
ahead of them to the very verge of the
drop ;——and there he stopped and turned
broadside and set his feet and stood ﬁrm.
Ye gods, it was a sight to see! Nanny and
the kids came on. Nothing could have stop-
ped their mad rush except that sturdy wall
of staunch black life. Down against him
they came with an impact that we could
hear from where we stood; but the barrier
held. There was a momentary huddle, and
then the little family came stringing its way
back up the ridge,—and I sat down on the
lava and marveled.

 

Our Dumb Animals

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston ofﬁce; 180 Longwood Av-
enue.

Address all communications to Boston.

TERMS

One dollar per year. Postage free to any part of
the World.

Humane Societies and Agents are invited to cor-
respond with us for terms on large orders.

_ All dollar subscriptions sent direct to the ofﬁce en-
title the sender to membership in either of our two
Societies.

RATES OF MEMBERSHIP IN

THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
OR THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.

Active Life $100 00 Active Annual $10 00

Associate Life 50 00 Associate Annual 5 00

Sustaining 20 00 Annual 1 00
Children’s $0.75

Checks and other payments may be sent to ALBERT
A. POLLARD, Treasurer,
Boston.

Manuscripts should be addressed to the Editor,
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston.

180 Longwood Avenue,

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 151;

 
 
  
   

GLORY TO
GOD,
PEACE ON EARTH,
KINDNESS, JUSTICE
AND MERCY 'ro
EVERY LIVING
CREATURE.

  

  

.7
$1
m
in

 
  
    
 

‘Founded by Geo. T. Angell Incorporated 1889

For rates of membership in both of our Societies
see back cover. Checks should be made payable to
Treasurer.

Ofﬁcers of the American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds

JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board

CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President, United Shoe
Machinery Corporation

PHILIP STOCKTON, President, First National Bank of
Boston

Foreign Corresponding Representatives

George B. Duff ................... Australia

Luls Pareja Cornejo ............. Ecuador

Charles A. illiams ............. France

Leonard T. Hawksley ............ Italy

Mrs. Mary P. E. Nitobe .......... Japan

Mrs. Marie C. E. Houghton ........ Madeira

Dr. A. T. Ishkanian .............. Mexico

Luther Parker ................... Philippine Islands
Joaqum Julia .................... Spain

Mrs. Alice W. Manning ........... Turkey

Humane Press Bureau

Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke, Secretary
180 Longwood Ave., Boston

Field Workers of the Society

Mrs. Alice L. Park, Palo Alto, California
Mrs. Rachel C. Hogue, San Diego, California
Mrs. Jennle R. Nichols, Tacoma, Washington
James D. Burton, Harriman, Tennessee
Mrs. Katherine Weathersbee, Atlanta, Georgia
Rev. F. Rivers Barnwell, Fort Worth, Texas
MlSS Blanche Finley, Richmond, Virginia
Rev. John W. Lemon, Ark, Virginia
MISS Lucia F. Gilbert, Boston, Massachusetts
Mrs. Jennie R. Toomim, Chicago, Ill.
Seymour Carroll, Columbia, S. C.
Rev. R. E. Griffith, De Land, Florida

Field Representative

Wm. F. H. Wentzel, M.S., Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

Field Lecturer in Massachusetts
Ella A. Maryott

The American Fondouk
in Fez

E are glad to tell those readers of

Our Dumb Animals interested in
the American Fondouk at Fez that we have
Just received proofs of lar e cardboard
notlces, to be placed in the merchants’ win-
dows of Fez and other places, bearing a
photograph of the Fondouk and the name
of the organization, with the words: “Have
compassion on animals who cannot com-
plain for themselves. Under the patronage
of S. E. Sidi Mohammed Tazi, the Pacha
of Fez. American Fondouk Maintenance
Committee, Inc.,” and underneath this, “Be
Kind to Animals.”

In.addition the following ordinance is
now 1n force at Fez, due to the work of the
Fondouk, which discloses the inﬂuence that
the Fondouk has exerted:—

.Article 1. It is formally forbidden to in-
ﬂict ill and abusive treatment on domestic

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

animals which live intimately with man and
aid him in his work.

Article 2. By ill and abusive treatment
it is necessary to have it understood are in—
cluded direct cases of brutality, of violence,
of any other act occasioning suffering,
which necessity does not justify.

Article 3. Loads exceeding the strength
of animals under saddles or pack-saddles
and causing them to bend under their bur-
dens will be considered as ill-treatment.

Article 4. The use of needles, pointed
sticks, and all other pointed prods which
can wound animals are rigorously forbid-
den. It is equally forbidden to use har-
nesses or trappings of a kind that might
wound the animal during work or rest.

Article 5. Agents should send animals
carrying serious wounds to the American
Fondouk, where they will be gratuitously
treated until the wounds are healed.

Article 6. The Chief Bureau of Mun—
icipal Service is charged with the execution
of these articles.

Forty of these will be stationed in ofﬁces
in the City Halls and in the Police Depart-
ment of Fez.

Fondouk Report for July, 1934

31 Days

Daily average large animals 32.3

Forage for same $67.47
Daily average dogs 14.3

Forage for same 11.49
Large animals humanely put to sleep 20 13.10
Transportation 8.22
Wages, grooms, etc. 92.85
Superintendent’s salary 159.15
Assistant’s salary 82.89
Veterinary’s salary 26.52
Sundries 11.21

$472.90
Exchange (a) 15.08

Entries: 14 horses, 12 mules. 32 donkeys, 1 cow.

Exits: 5 horses, 10 mules, 22 donkeys, 1 cow.

Monthly Report of Supt.’s Assistant, and Inspector,
on 70 native Fondouks, and the two markets for ani-
mals visited twice weekly, and distances walked
throughout the Souks and the Medina. the Mellah,
the Ville Nouvelle, where are the Police Headquarters,
and the Batha Division.

Kilometers traveled, 323; cases investigated, 832;

animals seen, 12,651; animals treated, 3,771; animals
transferred, 27.

SUPERINTENDENT’S NOTES

In the early summer of 1933 with much corre-
spondence we discussed small animals as boarders
1n the vacation period. It was ﬁnally decided unwise
to attempt it. Our strenuous visits to the 70 native
Fondouks, each one four times per week, was a strain
in the hot weather, and with the pension idea for
dogs and cats, there is always much responsibility
attached.

However, in August we were requested by such
promlnent and helpful ofﬁcials and residents that for
about six weeks we had both cats and dogs in the
Fondouk, whose families increased notably.

No fatalities or accidents occurred, but this year
the applications necessitated arranging kennels and
runs, and the July report shows we have 11 pension-
nalres, cats, dogs, and a very gay monkey. All with
owners 1n the military, consular or publicity services.

he municipal authorities have taken a leaf out
of our book and drinking troughs are springing up
all over the place. A very attractive one has been
opened almost in front of the residence of the British
Consul, for horses, sheep and dogs. Another very

elaborate one is being created at an important
location.

The Amusing Side of It

N OT all complaints which come to so-

cieties for the prevention of cruelty to
animals demand serious attention. At some
of them we can only smile while sympathiz-
1ng with the complainant’s desire to prevent
all cruelty.

For example: Of course a ﬂea-bitten
gray horse is a white or gray horse with.
very small specks of black hair scattered
over the most of the body, and that’s the

Oct. 1934

natural coat for the horse. Well, one good
soul writes, “I have seen mention frequently
made of some ﬂea-bitten gray horses. Can’t
you do something to prevent the ﬂeas from
biting such horses?”

A newspaper announced recently a battle
between the LiOns and the Bears not far
from Boston. Could we not stop such a
brutal affair? Investigation revealed the
contestants were two baseball clubs.

A circus was coming to Boston, could we
not have some kind of carpet boots made
for the poor elephants to protect their feet
from the hard pavements. We could only
say that Nature had provided such good
heavy pads for the feet of elephants that
they really didn’t nee-d our help.

Most amusing of all is the story told us
by Captain MacCunn, secretary of the
Royal S. P. C. A. of Great Britain. On
race-tracks a horse entered for a race may
be withdrawn from racing by its owner
before the race starts. Such a horse is said
to be “scratched.” A kind—hearted woman
asked the Society if the scratching of horses
could not be stopped as it must cause pain
to their sensitive skin, and another, anxious
to commend any deed of kindness, wrote
asking that a medal be granted to a man
who, she had read, put up (that is bet) his
last shirt on a scratched horse. Such kind-
ness deserved recognition.

The Persecution of the Jew

HAT a black page it is that is bound
. into the book of the history of man-
kind and which tells the story of the per—
secution of the Jew! That he has survived
the cruelties of ﬁre and sword and relent-
less injustice at the hands of a so-called
Christian world is something at which men
must still marvel. That millions who name
the name of a Jew as their Lord and Mas-
ter should have so belied the very‘heart
and center of the faith they have profes—
sed would be beyond belief if the appalling
facts did not stare us in the face. What
the present Nazi persecution has disclosed
pales before such historical records as the
following, which we quote from a recog-
nized authority:

“In 1391 the climatic wave of massacre
swept over Spain. In four months 50,000
Jews were butchered and hundreds of thou-
sands forcibly converted to Christianity.
When they were driven out of Spain 200,-
000 of them left the land on 90 days’ notice.
It tore them from scenes which had been
their homes for 1,500 years.

“By the year 1500 the hostile forces, the
Christian Church among them, had so far
crushed the Jewish mind and body that for
the next 250 years the ghetto was insulated
against all stimulating alien currents.

“Over half the Jewish population of the
world, approximately 16,000,000, today lives
in lands which deny to Jews the full right
to live as they choose.”

Why must not every man and woman
who names the name of Christ either
cleanse his heart of its unchristian preju-
dice or else wholly and utterly deny his
belief in such words as, “He that loveth
not his brother whom he hath seen, how can
he love God whom he hath not seen?”

Between pity toward beasts and goodness
of soul there is a very close connection.
SCHOPENHAUER




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

' FREE Write (or
BOOKLET N0. 652

      
   

' on the tactical re-
ro' move] (In)! worms in
DOGS Dogs of all breeds

and ages.

TETRACHLORETHYLENE c. 1'.

wow: CAPSULES

. ﬁectz'vely remove

.e
large Roundworms and Hookworms

Th fe, easy-to-give worm treatment.
Degenstiable. For free booklet WRITE TO

PARKE, DAVIS & CO.

D k N-58-M An 'mal I ndustry Dept, Detroit, Mich.
LIDrug States‘Sell Parke-Davis Products.—

 

 

 

 

 

 

THIS SPACE
CONTRIBUTED

 

 

 

 

‘. Cuticura Refreshing and
Shaving non-irritating

Cream even when used

tw1ce daily.
At your dealers or sent on receipt of 35c.
t Address: “Cuticura.," Dept. 2213, Maiden, Mass. ’
III-IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII

 

 

THIS SPACE
CONTRIBUTED

 

 

 

 

Humane Calendar
o 1935 9

Canadian
Wild Flowers

IN COLOR

The 1935 Humane Calendar is one of the
most beautiful we have ever produced.
Reproductions of six exquisite paintings of
Canada’s loveliest wild ﬂowers by Barrie
Rennie. Beneath each picture is a full
description of the ﬂower, its habitat, etc.,
especially useful and interesting to teach-
ers—An ideal Christmas gift.

Simplify your gift problem by sending a
list of those to whom you wish calendars
sent, and they will be mailed in time for
Christmas. An attractive greeting card
enclosed if desired.

Price 50c, postage prepaid to any part of
the world.

The Toronto Humane Society

11-23 St. Albans Street - Toronto

 

3911mm: literature for (ﬂoristmas @itts

For sale by the American Humane Education Society and the Massachusetts S. P. C. A.,
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, MaSS., at these prices, postpaid.

The Great Cruelty, summary of Dr. Rowley’s address on humane slaughtering .................. Free

Humane Calendar for 1935 ........... each, 20 cts.
Two for 35 cts.; six for $1.00; $1.80 per dozen
Our Dumb Animals, 1933, bound volume $1.00

Our Dumb Animals, January to Decem-

ber, 1929, 1931, and 1932, bound in

cloth, special, each .................. , .75
Colored Posters, 17 x 28 inches, with

attractive pictures and verses, six in

the set ..............................

About the Horse
Black Beauty (English), cloth, 45 cents; paper, 20 cts.
The Shame of It—Mutilating the horse '
by setting up his tail. Dr. Rowley’s
protest against this cruelty for fash-

ion’s sake. Four illus., 4 pp. ....... Free
What Constitutes Cruelty, Francis H.

Rowley .............................. $0.30 per 100
The Horse——Treatment of Sores; etc. .. .60 “ “
Humane Education Leaﬂet, No. 5 ...... .50 “ “
The Horse’s Prayer ................... .30 “ “
The Bell of Atri, Poem by Longfellow .. .50 “ “

About the Dog
Beautiful Joe, new, illus., $1.50 ........ small, 50 cts.
Distemper in Dogs, Dr. Schneider ...... Free
Rabies vs. Running Fits, Dr. Schneider . Free

Eulogy on the Dog, by Vest, post-card .. $1.00 per 100
The Dog—Its Care in Health and Disease .60 “ “
Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 3 and 4 .50 “ “
The Story of Barry .................... .30 “ “

About the Bird

The Birds of God, 318 pp., illus. cloth, $0.45
Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 1 and 2 $0.50 per 100
How the Birds Help the Farmer .50 “ “
The Air-gun and the Birds ............ .50 “ “

About the Cat

The Cat—Its Care in'Health and Disease $0.60 per 100
Surplus Cats .50 “ “

......

......

TheCatin Li’téiétﬁié'ﬂ:IIIIZKIIIIZI .50 “ “
Do Not Leave Your Cat to Starve ...... .50 “ “
“The Beggar Cat,” post-card, 6 cts. doz. .50 “ “

About Other Animals

Prince Rudollf’s Quest, Kenniston, 150

pp., spec1a ......................... boards, 50 cts.
The Strike at Shane’s, cloth, 30 cts. .. paper, 7 cts.
For Pity’s Sake ....................... paper, 5 cts.
Michael Brother of Jerry, Jack London, cloth, 75 cts.
Flrst Ald to Animals, Dr. Schneider, 8 pp. $1.00 per 100
What is the Jack London Club? .30 “ "

Foreword from “Michael Brother . of
Jerry” .............................. .30 “ “
Grlpped in the Teeth of Steel, 2 pp. 1.00 “ “

How to Kill Animals Humanely, 4 pp.

. . 1.00 “ “
Leaﬂets, No. 6, Animals ............... .50 “ “
Leaﬂets, No. 7, Farm Animals ......... .50 “ “
Ways of Kindness ..................... .50 “ “

Humane Education

The Humane Bulletin, for use in schools,
pp. . . .............. 12 cents each; ten for $1.00

Care and Kindness for Our Animal

Friends, 29 pp., paper covers, many
illus. . . ............ 15 cents each; seven for $1.00
Kindness Picture Book, 32 pp., 15 cts. ; seven for $1.00

The Teacher’s Helper in Humane Edu-
cation, 32 pp. ...................... each, 10 cts.
Humane Education—for Parents and
Teachers, 20 pp. ....................
An Early Start to Kindness, Lucia F.
Gilbert, 48 pp. For ﬁrst and second
grades .............................
Picture Lesson Cards, each 10 cts., set
of eight ........................
“Be Kind to Animals” pennants
“Be Kind to Animals” placards .......
The Humane Idea, Dr. Francis H.
Rowley ................. cloth, 35 cts. ; paper, 15 cts.

Friends and Helpers (selections for
school use), Sarah J. Eddy .......... cloth, 96 cts.

Animals as Seen by the Poets, Guy
Richardson, 32 pp. ................... cloth, 35 cts.
The B—K—T—A—C ub, play, 3 cts. each;ten for 25c.
Fred Changes His Mind, play, 5 cts. each; six for 25c.

“And a Little Child Shall Lead Them.”
play .................... 3 cts. each ; ten for 25 cts.

Friends of Fur and Feather, play,
3 cts. each;ten for 25 cts.

Humane Exercises for use in Schools
(1934) .............................. $1.50 per 100

Humane Day in Schools, with class-room
project, 8 pp. ....................... 2.00 “ “
Humane Education the Vital Need, Dr.
Rowley, short radio address, 3 cts. each; 1.50 “ “

Humane Education, What to Teach and

each, 10 cts.

each, 10 cts.

35 cts.
..... each, 25 cts.
each, 3 cts.

How to Teach It .................... .50 “ “
A Talk with the Teacher .............. .50 “ “
Our Love for Animals, a short radio ad-

dress ................... 2 cts. each; 1.00 “ “
Hints for Humane Sunday ............. .75 “ “
A Festival of Tender Mercies .......... .50 “ “
The Coming Education ................ .30 “ “
A Great Prophecy, Dr. Rowley ......... Free
American College Presidents and the

American Humane Education Society . . Free

Band of Mercy

“Be Kind to Animals” Buttons, three

styles——Band of Mercy, Humane So-

ciety, or S. P. C. A. ................ $1.00 per 100
Buttons—white star on blue ground with

gilt letters and border, one cent each 1.00 “ “
Badges, gold ﬁnish, large, 10 cts. ....... small, 5 cts.

“Band of Mercy” Pennant ........... 35 cts.
Songs of Happy Life, with music, S.

J. Eddy ............................. 50 cts.
Songs of Happy Life (56 pages, words

only) ............................... $3.00 per 100
Band of Mercy Membership Card ...... .50 “ “
How to Form Bands of Mercy .......... .50 “ “

Does it Pay, Story of one Band of Mercy .30 “ “

Please enclose remittance with orders for less than $1

AMERICAN HUMAN E EDUCATION SOCIETY, 180 Longwood Ave., Boston, MaSS.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Since 1 832

J. S. WATERMAN & SONS, lnc.
@ﬂnhertakers

BOSTON—BROOKLINE—CAMBRIDGE
City and Out-of-Town Service

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Best Humane Films!
ON BEHALF OF ANIMALS

Showing activities of Angell Animal Hospital of Mass. S. P. C. A.,

scenes at Rest Farm for Horses, Methuen, etc.

TWO REELS, 30 MINUTES

THE BELL OF ATRI

Illustrating Longfellow’s poem
State whether regular 35 mm., or 16 mm. is required

Terms on application to Secretary

Massachusetts S. P. C. A., 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

l,”

 

 

 

 

 

Page56
Our Dumb Animals

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston Ofﬁce; 180 Longwood Av-
enue, Boston, Mass., to which all communications
should be addressed.

Dr. FRANCIS I-I. ROWLEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON, Editor
WILLIAM M. MORRILL, Assistant

 

APRIL, 1934

 

FOR TERMS, see back cover.

AGENTS to take orders for Our Dumb Animals are
wanted everywhere. Liberal commissions are offered.

EDITORS of all periodicals who receive this pub-
lication this month are invited to reprint any of the
articles with or without credit.

MANUSCRIPTS relating to animals, particularly
prose articles of about three hundred words are solic-
ited. We do not wish to consider prose manuscripts
longer than 800 words, nor verse in excess of thirty-
six lines. The shorter the better. All manuscripts
should be typewritten and an addressed envelope with
full return postage enclosed with each offering.

 

 

Who Will be Punished?

ORE than 100 lambs frozen to death

out of a shipment of some 700. The
rest were in pitiable condition, 25 more
dying a little later. This is the report from
Batavia, N. Y., as published in the Boston
Herald of February 21. These wholly de-
fenseless creatures were shipped in open
cars and during the journey the temperature
fell to 14 below zero. Who was responsible
for what they suffered? The shipper, or the
railroad and its employees? We do not
know. We can only hope an investigation
will be made and the guilty punished.

The whole business of shipping and
slaughtering our food animals is stained by
cruelty from beginning to end. Part of the
suffering involved is unavoidable, it’s bound
to be. You can’t gather together herds of
cattle and swine and ﬂocks of sheep, drive
them to shipping centers, pack them into
cars, carry them hundreds of miles, un-
load them, force them into slaughter-houses
and kill them without causing them suffer-
ing. Of course, the packers say we must
guard against loss through ill-treatment of
the animals. Blows and prods and kicks
injure the meat and they say the loss from
such abuse is serious. But to take too great
care, to drive them and ship them and kill
them with too much consideration for their
welfare is to wipe out all the proﬁt that
otherwise might be made, and if proﬁts come
ﬁrst humaneness will be a far away second.

Please Don’t—

Wear snake-skin shoes, because “The
watersnake, 3 metres long, which is mostly
used for ladies’ shoes, is caught in enor-
mous quantities in a river in Borneo. All
these snakes, like the lizards, are perfectly
harmless; not one poison snake is among
them. These snakes are nailed to a tree
through the head, alive. At the back of
the head an incision is made with the knife
and the whole skin is pulled off in one
plece from the still living animal. Nobody
troubles any more about the creatures, al-
though they still live for days in their
aany.” The writer of this translated
article, Dr. Franz Werner, professor of zoo-
Ology, truly calls this practice “a crime,”
and asks women not to wear these products.
—Ammal Welfare Magazine, Melbourne

OUR DUMB ANIMALS
TheCalf

A Shameless Cruelty

VERY year as spring draws near be-

gins again one of the most shameless
cruelties with which humane societies have
to deal. And yet they are powerless to stop
it. Hundreds of thousands of immature,
baby calves, three,’ four, ﬁve days old, are
shipped to the slaughter-houses of the sev-
eral states. Thousands arrive dead in the
cars. Too weak from lack of food they go
down in the car. Some are trampled to
death. Many have to be shot because un-
able to get up or suffering from broken legs
or other injuries. Why can’t our Massa-
chusetts S. P. C. A. do anything about it
here in our own State? We can when these
little things are shipped or handled within
the state. But the vast numbers of them
come in from out of the state and that is
inter-state shipment and the Federal law
makes it impossible for any state organiza-
tion to prosecute.

Read, if you have the courage, the follow-
ing from our ofﬁcer in Springﬁeld.

“Yesterday I was notiﬁed by the railroad
of three car loads of calves that were in a
pitiful condition. One bill of lading called
for forty—two calves, and in opening up the
car we found 156. These cars were box-
cars. On the last car there were eleven dead
ones and I killed ﬁve others. In the three
cars there were approximately thirty dead
ones and I killed twelve others. I had thir-
teen forty—quart cans of milk ordered by
the railroad.

“After coming from the Palmer court I
started in at eleven o’clock to feed the
calves, and got through at nine o’clock last
night. I had the railroad divide two of the
cars so there were ﬁve cars instead of
three used for the last part of the journey
to Pawtucket, Rhode Island. Most of these
calves were bob-veal, with the navel string
hanging, showing they were under ten days
old. I unloaded all the dead ones, and with
the ones I killed, sent them to the render-
ing company.”

Upon receipt of the above letter we wrote
immediately to the U. S. Department of
Agriculture at Washington, telling the story
and pleading for some action on the part
of the Federal Government. So long as the
demand exists for the meat of these new-
born calves the traﬂic will continue. We
came close, some years ago, to securing
Federal legislation that would prohibit the
shipment of any calves under three weeks
of age, but a well-known Massachusetts
Senator, now dead, failed us at the last
moment.

What can you do, you who have read
this sad story? Stop eating veal. Alas, it
is chieﬂy to the poor and ignorant to whom
this cheap and unwholesome “bob-veal” is
sold.

Since writing the above, we have received
from our Springﬁeld ofﬁcer a letter stating
that, as the result of information furnished
the railroad by him, the vice-President of
the road is sending out a letter to the road’s
agents with instructions that if anything of
this nature happens again in such shipping
of calves, it will result in their dismissal.

Be thou diligent to know the state of thy
ﬂocks, and look well to thy herds.
Proverbs, 27; 23

Apr. 1934

Military Training in Schools

LL of us who hold fast to the conviction

that our schools need training for peace
instead of for war will be glad to learn that
De Pauw University has, through its Board
of Trustees, voted to ask the War Depart-
ment to withdraw the Reserve Oﬂicers
Training Camp from the University. Please
notice the request went to the War Depart-
ment. Listen to what the President of the
University says about it:

“I do not think that compulsory military
training can be justiﬁed from the stand-
point of preparedness itself. True prepared-
ness is preparedness for peace. Military
preparedness is preparedness for war. The
fundamental assumption beneath military
preparedness is that war is inevitable.
While afﬁrming hatred for war, the advo-
cates of military preparedness create a
mind-set that assumes its inevitability.
Building upon that assumption, they create-
plans that are in actuality preparedness for
war. Compulsory courses in international
understanding can be justiﬁed with far
more assurance from the standpoint of
guaranteeing peace and security than can
courses in military science.”

When universities expel students, as the
University of California has done, who con-
scientiously refuse to go through the Army’s
drill, it is time for no uncertain protest from
all who believe that the whole business of
military training in our schools and colleges
should be stopped. A thousand times honor
to the young men who have the courage of
their convictions!

Beware the Dog Stealer!

N a Chicago newspaper there appear

daily many advertisements of lost dogs,
says the Chicago Humane Education So-
ciety. The number often reaches to more
than a score. Were the truth known, it is
most probable that the missing animals,
dear to their owners, besides representing
much value, did not become lost at all, but
were the victims of some of the meanest
type of human thieves. The percentage of
recovery of the dogs that are advertised
is comparatively small. They are disposed
of in such ways that their restoration to
their rightful owners can only be secured
by the offer of most liberal rewards. The
dog—stealer then compounds his felonious
act by “holding up” the owner for an ex-
cessive sum, usually with no questions
asked.

There is another phase of this despicable
brand of criminality. Along the state high-
ways and boulevards where motor tourists
travel by the thousands, dogs of almost
every kind are offered for sale. The oppor-
tunity is alluring and many a real dog
vendor ﬁnds ready customers who buy on
sight. How easily may these wayside stands
become the outlet for “lost” dogs?

In the light of these prevailing con-
ditions the warning to the dog owner then
is by no means a false alarm. Seldom are
the perpetrators of this most vicious crime
of dog-stealing brought into court. Detec-
tion and conviction are difﬁcult. Let the dog
owner beware both the unprincipled stealer
and the unscrupulous dealer!

0 O
0

Remember the Mass. Society for the Pre-
vention of Cruelty to Animals in your will.

 




 

 

u U.S.Trade Mark,Registered( \

1 ANGELLlN1868'AND FOR FORTy.ONE '

The Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

The American Humane Education Society

The American Band of Mercy

I would not enter on my list of friends,

Though graced with polished manners and ﬁne sense,

Yet wanting sensibility, the man

Who needlessly sets foot upon a. worm. .
—COWPER

     

(3|.on TO
GOD, .
PEACE on EARTH,

  
  
  

‘ AND MERCY res
EVERY lema
CREATURE.

 
     

Entered as second-class matter, June 29, 1917, at the Post Ofﬁce at Norwood, Mass., under the Act of March 3, 187

Acceptance for mailing at special rate of post

9
age prov1ded for in section 1103, Act of October 3, 1917, authorized, July 13, 1919

Boston Ofﬁce, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

 

Vol. 67

December, 1934

No. 12

 

Christmas brings to the most of us the
memory of many a happy day among the
days of childhood and later years. Then
come back the faces of those who made the
day for us bright with joy. To all our
readers we wish the best possible Christmas
and New Year—more memories that will
awaken thankfulness and gladness than
those that could bring tears.

It is devoutly to be hoped the Federal
Government will never again undertake, in
the same way, the shipment and slaughter
of cattle from the Far West which has
aroused so much criticism. Half the suffer-
ing would have been avoided had contracts
been kept and promises fulﬁlled. Better
still if the greater part of the animals had
been destroyed before shipment.

We are rather ashamed to confess to our
readers outside the State of Massachusetts
that Boston city authorities, last month,
permitted for 12 days a rodeo exhibition.
England practically drove the rodeo out of
the country, eliminating so many of its fea-
tures that it became too tame a show to at-
tract the public, and, furthermore, the Lon-
don public expressed its disapproval of it
by staying largely away from it. Here we
could not prevent it, but it had to exhibit
under the rules our Society laid down
which guarded against the worst of its fea-
tures. Whatever Boston once was, it is no
longer a typical American city as our fath-
ers knew it.

English and Scottish humane societies
are seeking legislation against the cruelties
of the steel trap which is being used to take
rabbits. The rabbit is increasing in num-
ber so rapidly in these two countries that
some humane device for catching them with-
out causing suffering has become a necessity.

It has been bad enough for France to
sanction, since the War, the bull-ﬁght within
her own borders. Now it has been intro-
duced into Morocco over which she has
dominion. That France should lend her in-
fluence to these brutal sports is losing her
many friends among those who have visited
her in the past.

A Rare Opportunity

ND it came about through an invitation

to the President of our two Societies
to visit Louisville, Kentucky, in the interest
of Humane Education. To be given the
chance to speak to more than 4,000 high
school students, to a class in the laboratory
of a medical school, to hold conferences with
the directors of the Kentucky Humane So-
ciety and of the Animal Rescue League, to
urge upon the presidents of a large group
of men’s clubs the vital need of Humane
Education in our public schools and to meet
socially many of Louisville’s prominent citi-
zens who knew the purpose of the visit, to
broadcast for 25 minutes the story of the
humane movement and the principles for
which Humane Education stands—and then
to share the hospitality so generously ac-
corded—all this opened a door to an unusual
opportunity and eight days of rare pleasure.
The harvest? Who knows? But the soil
was there. It seemed to be not the soil of
wayside paths, nor of rocky places, nor
where thorns abounded, but of good ground.
The seed we know was good and the sower
at least tried to do his best.

To the visitor, coming to this Southern
city for the ﬁrst time, it was a revelation.
Nowhere had this visitor seen such splen-
did school buildings, and buildings so gen-
erously equipped to serve that purpose. It
was a joy even to look at them, and no-
where could superintendents, principals and
teachers have given a more cordial recep-
tion to a stranger from Without their gates.
And the pupils. They, too, were most re-
sponsive. Each school presented an audi—
ence inspiring to a speaker given the oppor-
tunity to address it.

Louisville, with its college, its museums,
its hospitals for both white and colored, its
beautiful parks, its multitude of attractive
homes, its organizations for civic advance-
ment, its gracious and generous hospitality,
is a city of which its people may well be
proud. And then it is only 80 miles from
Lexington, the center of the blue grass
region where so many of America’s notable
horses have been bred and raised. A day
and a half among these great estates, whose
green acres number all the way from 400 to

2,000 in extent, must always be a delight to
every lover of the horse.

To stand beside Man 0’ War and smooth
his glossy neck which shone like burnished
copper, seventeen years old and without a
blemish on any of those four legs which had
won him those 20 races out of 21 as a two-
year—old and a three-year—old colt, was a day
never to be forgotten. To the ﬁne colored
man, Wm. Harbut, his keeper, Man 0’ War
stands alone. “Never compare this horse,”
he says, “with any other. He is in a class
all by himself.” The two, the horse and his
keeper are as inseparable as if each be-
longed to the other. Half a million dollars
insurance is carried upon this famous stal-
lion. Space permits no story of the other
beautiful horses shown to us at other farms.

A word must be said of two historic
places visited, the old Rowan estate, now
owned by the State and where Foster wrote
“My Old Kentucky Home”; and the sacred
shrine where, within its Memorial Hall,
which reminds you of a Greek Temple,
stands the tiny log cabin on the spot where
Abraham Lincoln was "born. This the na-
tion has dedicated to the ‘Vmemory of him of
whom one has said: “From the mean cabin
in the Kentucky woods he moved upwards,
as though led by an invisible hand, through
years of obscurity and bitter trial to the
peak of transﬁguration, and passed at last
from sight through the portals of a tragic
death to be numbered with the saints and
martyrs in glory everlasting.”

Our Humane Trapping Law

As we go to press no deﬁnite word has
been received as to the fate of the Massa-
chusetts Humane Trapping Law. We sought
a NO vote at the election. So confusing,
muddled, incomprehensible (could this have
been intentional?) was the language of the
referendum that no one whom we have yet
seen could tell whether to vote YES or NC.
We are conﬁdent thousands voted against
our measure who thought they were voting
for it. IF DEFEATED, WE START THE
BATTLE ALL OVER AGAIN. We shall

have more to say next month.

1

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 80

“Franzl”
ARTHUR L. DELISLE

HE following reminiscence of her child-
hood was related to me in Germany, by
Frau Elsa Schranz.

My girlhood days, said Frau Schranz,
were spent in Vienna in winter and at our
villa in Styria, not far from Graz, during
the rest of the year. I was the only girl,
with a brother already grown up.

In the shooting season we used to have
house-parties, on which occasions the gen-
tlemen would go out early in the morning
and return in the afternoon with their
“bag.” One day they came home with the
body of a female stag with her little baby
son trotting disconsolately as chief and
only mourner behind his mother’s bier,
borne by four stout game-keepers.

The stag disappeared from the scene in
the form of venison, but the little roebuck
was presented to me as a pretty toy. I took
the poor orphan to 'my heart at once and
christened him “Franzl.” He was my sole
pet and constant playmate. I never tired
of kissing and caressing him and garland-
ing him with roses, and I insisted on his
being allowed to sleep at night on a cushion
in my bedroom. Our servants bathed him
daily and to me he was the loveliest crea-
ture in existence—humans being relegated
to the second place.

But Franzl grew rapidly. Though no
bigger than a terrier when I ﬁrst made his
acquaintance, he was soon twice as big as
myself. And in less than a year he was as
large as a pony. My father and brother
began to throw out hints that I must not
expect to keep him always. Such hints be-
came more and more pressing, and the cli-
max was reached when one day I heard
that a horrible plot was being hatched to
treat my Franzl in the same manner as his
poor mother had been treated. I raised an
awful scene. Both ﬁreworks and water—
works were brought into action. I stormed
and wept. I stamped my foot and dared
them to do it. “On the very day you mur-
der Franzl,” I declared, “I will drown my—
self in the pond,” and I meant it, too. Never
before had I been known in such an amaz-
ing tantrum. My threat thoroughly alarmed
my parents and brother, and the subject
was dropped—for a time. Some months
later, however, they returned to it again.
They argued that Franzl would soon be as
big as a horse. What should I do with him
then? I saw the force of their reasoning,
but my heart was torn. Then a compromise
was proposed: they would take Franzl into
the forest and lose him. To this I gave a

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

reluctant assent. Early one morning, while
I was fast asleep, they took Franzl away
into the forest.

Several years passed by. Darling Franzl
became little more than a sweet memory.

At this time I commenced to attend a
private school about a mile from our villa.
I went on foot, accompanied by a maid. One
morning while on my way to school an im-
mense stag with towering antlers sprang
out of the forest and barred my path. The
maid ﬂed back in affright, leaving me to the
mercy of the ferocious brute, which, how-
ever, began to lick my face and bare arms
in a most embarrassing manner—prepara-
tory, as I thought, to eating me. But the
truth suddenly ﬂashed into my mind. I
cried, “Come back, Mary- You big silly. It’s
only Franzl.” The maid accordingly plucked
up sufﬁcient courage to return, but with the
sorrowfully resigned air of a condemned
criminal awaiting execution.

From that day onward Franzl met me
every morning at the same spot and escorted
me to school, which done he would in a few
bounds disappear into the somber depths of
the forest—until next day.

The strange sight of the gigantic stag
and the maid, with my small self in the
middle, walking together, proved an irre-
sistible attraction to the local inhabitants
who looked out of their cottage windows or
stood at their open doors.

The time came, however, when we closed
thevilla and went to our Vienna home.
Thus ended my ﬁrst true love romance.

When Young Blrds Need a
Friend , ~

Nesting time is here again. Young birds
need protection from cats and other enemies
and we can do much to assist mother birds
in protecting their young.

Young birds often accidentally fall from
their nests before they are able to 'ﬂy. In
such cases it is wise to return the bird to
its nest, as it is so helpless that it needs the
care of its parents. The mother bird cannot
return her young to the nest and the little
bird soon falls a prey to a cat or other
animal.

If the nest cannot be found the little bird
must be fed, as it left its nest before it
learned to feed itself. The littlecone should
be handled carefully and under such care
may become tamed. Children especially have
a duty to fulﬁll in caring for these little ones.

Appoint yourself a special guard over the
nests in your neighborhood and you will be
well repaid by observing the birds grow up.

CONRAD O. PETERSON

 

 

TO OUR FRIENDS

In making your will, kindly bear in mind that the corporate title of our Society is “The
Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals”; that it is the second
mcorporated (March, 1868) Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals in the country,
and that it has no connection with any other similar Society.

_ Any bequest especially intended for the beneﬁt of the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital
should, nevertheless, be made to The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals “for the use of the Hospital,” as the Hospital is not incorporated but is the
property of that Society and is conducted by it.

FORM OF BEQUEST

I give to The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (or
to The American Humane Education Society), the sum of ............................
dollars (or, if other property), describe the property).

 

 

May, 1934
Faithful Unto Death

I’ve never known a dog to wag
- His tail in glee he didn’t feel,
Nor quit an old time friend to tag
At some more inﬂuential heel.
The yellowest cur I ever knew
Was to the man who loved him true.

I’ve never known a dog to show
Half way devotion to his friend,
To seek a kindlier man to know,
Or richer, but unto the end
The humblest dog I ever knew
Was to the man who loved him true.

I never knew a dog to fake
Affection for a present gain,

A false display of love to make,
Some little favor to attain.

I’ve never known a Prince or Spot

That seemed to be what he was not.

But I have known a dog to ﬁght
With all his strength to shield a friend,
And whether wrong or whether right,
To stick to him until the end;
And I have known a dog to lick
The hand of him that men would kick.

And I have known a dog to bear
Starvation pangs from day to day

With him who had been glad to share
His bread and meat along the way.

No dog, however mean or rude,

Is guilty of ingratitude.

The dog is listed with the dumb,
No voice has he to speak his creed,
His messages to humans come
By faithful conduct and by deed
And show, as seldom mortals do,
The high ideal of being true.
This poem, author unknown, was sent in by Mr.
Fred Pickering of Hoosick Falls, New York.

The object of Humane Education does not
end with kindness to animals. Its material
in the main deals with animals and is cal-
culated to further their humane treatment,
but its aim is the broader one of developing
a kinder and more considerate attitude in
every aspect of life. Its purpose is to con-
tribute to the highest and most enduring
happiness of the human race. The world’s
greatest need is more education of the heart.

EFFIE E. SMITH

Our Dumb Animals

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston Ofﬁce; 180 Longwood Av-
en

 

ue.
Address all communications to Boston.

TERMS

One dollar per year. Postage free to any part of
the World.

Humane Societies and Agents are invited to cor-
respond 'with us for terms on large orders.

All dollar subscriptions sent direct to the oﬂice en-
title the sender to membership in either of our two
Societies.

RATES OF MEMBERSHIP IN

THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
. OR THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.

Active Life $100 00 Active Annual $10 00
Associate Life 50 00 Associate Annual 5 00
Sustaining 20 00 Annual 1 00

Childrens $0.75

Checks and other payments may be sent to ALBERT
A. POLLARD, Treasurer, 180 Longwood Avenue,
Boston.

Manuscripts should be addressed to the Editor,
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston.




 

 

 

 

I“ MARCH 1934 PRICE IO CENTS I;

 

 

“wen...“ . .mx».

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THE MASSACHUSETTS SOCIETY FOR THE I
REVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS  

 

AND THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY *

Humane Sunday, April 15; Be Kind to Animals Week, April 16-21, 1934 "

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

Page 16
New Medals for Posters

N entirely new medal has been espec1—

ally designed for the Massachusetts
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty .to
Animals to offer in the annual school prize
poster contest, which will be conducted along
the lines of previous years. The 1934 medal
is round, two inches in diameter, and .shows
the angel of mercy holding aOtorch in her
right hand and the scales of Justlce 1n her
left hand. At her feet appear a horse, a dog
and a cat. Bronze medals will be awarded as
ﬁrst prizes, silver medals as .second. . Sub-
scriptions to Our Dumb Ammals W111 be
given for honorable mention. As usual, these
prizes will be distributed freely .throughout
the various schools competing in the con-
test. Last year there were 1,551 medals and
1,172 subscriptions awarded.

Full particulars of the 1934 contest are-
given only in the special circular Wthh may
be obtained from the Secretary of the So-
ciety, but a summary of them follows:

1. The contest is open to public or paro-

chial schools of grammar or high grade in'

Massachusetts only, closes positively March
26, 1934, results to be announced as near Be
Kind to Animals Week, April 16-21, as pos-
sible. During that week, and the week, fol-
lowing, the best of the posters will be on
exhibition in the Boston Public Library,
Copley Square.

2. No more than ﬁve posters may be
submitted from any one room, teachers to
make the selection from all that are made
under their direction.

3. Kindness to animals should be the
theme, preferably with a brief motto. The
more original the design, the better.

4. Pencil or crayon, pen and ink, cut-
out paper (original, not magazine covers,
etc.), silhouette, water-colors or charcoal
may be used. Color adds greatly to the ef-
fectiveness.

5. DRAWINGS, ON CARDBOARD OR
HEAVY PAPER, MAY BE NOT LESS
THAN 12 x 18 INCHES, NOR MORE
THAN 18 x 24 INCHES, and should be
SHIPPED FLAT (never rolled) , all charges
prepaid, to reach the MASSACHUSETTS
S. P. C. A., not later than March 26, 1934,
preferably earlier.

6. In the upper right-hand corner, on
the back of each poster, must be written,
legibly, the contestant’s name, WITH FULL
HOME ADDRESS, also name and address
of the school, number of the grade, and
name of the teacher.

7. All posters receiving prizes become the
property of the Society.

8. Address all posters plainly, Secretary,

Massachusetts S. P. C. A., 180 Longwood
Avenue, Boston.

 

/ \\
f

f" Any Dog

/ BLANCHE OUElLLETTE

HEN we see how pre-eminently dogs

embody the elements of companion-
ship, gratitude, and loyalty, it is difﬁcult to
understand why they are sometimes—I
should say often—disliked. Dogs possess
those three virtues which we expect from
our friends, but so often fail to receive.

How rare are the friends Who will stand
by us in adversity—and perhaps in dis-
grace; how many there are who importune
us with avowals of friendship when all is
well with us! How many deny us their com-
panionship when we are most desolate; and
how few show us gratitude for the help
which, impotent though we may be, we gave
to the best of our ability!

When all the world seems to have turned
against you, and your fondest hopes are
black as night; when you have been hurt by
heedless humans, and it seems as though all
were traitors; when you feel that there is
no one whom you can call “friend”; then
go to your faithful dog for consolation. Take
his Willing head between your hands, place
it beside your cheek, and, in a conﬁdential
tone whisper your tale of woe into his alert
ear. He will know by the sadness of your
voice that all is not well, and his deep brown
eyes, so pathetic and appealing, will carry a
sadness in harmony with your own. He will
even want to lick your face, but that is not
permissible. Perhaps, if you realize how
eagerly he is offering you the deepest sym-
pathy and consolation of which he is cap-
able, you will allow him to lick your hands
just a bit. Hold him tightly and tell him
again and again, having no fear that he
will become impatient or bored, for as long
as you are sad your little friend will be
likewise.

If you should be happy, however, and
speak to. him in cheerful tones, then watch
him gambol, and listen to his joyous little
yelps. His eyes fairly shine with mischiev-
ous lights radiating the love of living. He
is anxious to" join in your merrymaking for
he is happy when you are.

If necessity should oblige you to leave
him for some time, he will become listless,
will refuse food, the while he anxiously lis-
tens for the familiar sound of your foot-
steps or welcoming whistle. But, oh! the
mad joy on your return! The ceaseless
leaping! The ”joyous barking! Note his rest-
lessness and see how closely he Watches
when you step to the door for a moment.
He is afraid that you will leave him again.

Should you be maliciously attacked, your
dog will ﬁght for you with all the strength
in his wiry body, for he is ﬁghting for the
one that is all the world to him.

 

 

TO OUR FRIENDS

In makmg your will, kindly bear in mind that the corporate title of our Society is “The
Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals”; that it is the second
incorporated (March, 1868) Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals in the country,
and that it has no connection with any other similar Society.

Any bequest especrally intended for the beneﬁt of the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital
should, nevertheless, be made to The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals “for theme of the Hospital,” as the Hospital is not incorporated but is the
property of that Society and is conducted by it.

FORM OF BEQUEST

I give to The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruel to Animals or
to The American Humane Education Society), the sum of ............ ty ............. ( . .
dollars (or, if other property), describe the property).

 

 

OUR DUMB ANIMA\LS

Jan. 1934

To me, every dog on the street is a poten-
tial friend, for if it is at all possible, I
eventually win him over. In my own neigh-
borhood everybody’s dog is mine, in the
sense that they are all my friends. The-y
greet me with enthusiasm which I return
with a pat and a few friendly words.

In my dreams of the future, I see myself
surrounded by dogs. A big Saint Bernard
over there near the door, a police dog close
by that window watching the antics of a
Pekingese on the sill, a white poodle scamp-
ering wildly with a small terrier, while,
best of all, close beside me on my big chair,
sits a large yellow and white dog. He is a
mixture of collie and shepherd, and a liv-
ing memento of “Jimmie,” the dog that I
loved the most, but lost.

Where Elk Are Protected

On the S. N. Leek ranch near Jackson,
Wyo., in the Jackson Hole territory, one
may see nature as it probably was before
the White man began his wanton slaughter
of wild life. Here feed some 25,000 elk,
15,000 deer, 2,500 moose, 1,500 beavers and
some 1,000 mountain sheep. In the picture
on page 5 we see elk fee-ding on the Leek
ranch. Hay is placed out and they are so
tame that they will surround the wagon
and wait for their share. These animals will
permit themselves to be petted here only
while the snow is deep. They ﬂee at the
approach of mankind.

‘ Painless Branding
EVA HENDERSON DAVEY

Cattlemen in the southwest are using a
chemical on a cold branding iron. The
chemical is painless.

Odd isn’t it, how long it takes for
humane methods to take the place of cruel,
troublesome ones? ‘

Since the states began their campaigns
to stamp out tuberculosis among cattle,
branding is not confined to the marking of
western cattle. Every re—acter in a herd
that is tested is marked at the time it is
condemned, and the branding iron has come
into use for this purpose.

Every advance, substituting a painless
method for a painful one, should be made
law as soon as possible, with a stiff penalty
for those who break it.

Our Dumb Animals

Published on the first Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston Ofﬁce; 180 Longwood Av-
enue.

Address all communications to Boston.

TERMS

One dollar per year. Postage free to any part of
the World. .

Humane Societies and Agents are invited to cor-
respond with us for terms on large orders.

All dollar subscriptions sent direct to the ofﬁce en-
title the sender to membership in either of our two
Societies.

RATES OF MEMBERSHIP IN

THE AMERICAN HVUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
OR THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.

Active Life $100 00 Active Annual $10 00

 

Associate Life 50 00 Associate Annual 5 00
Sustaining 20 00 Annual 1 00
Children’s $0.75

Checks and other payments may be sent to ALBERT
A. POLLARD, Treasurer, 180 Longwood Avenue,
Boston. , .

Manuscripts should be addressed to‘ the Editor,
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston.

 

 

 




 

 

FEBRUARY |934 PRICE IO CENTS

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

I.
l T
.l
ZEBRAS AND WILDEBEESTS . ‘
I | .

 

THE MASSACHUSETTS SOCIETY FOR THE D

PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS
AND THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY ’l
. I

 

 




 

 

Apr. 1931;

 

Founded by Geo. T. Angell. Incorporated March, 1868

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. 'POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds

JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board

CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President, United Shoe
Machinery Corporation

PHILIP STOCKTON, President, First National Bank of
Boston

Prosecuting Ofﬁcers in Boston

Telephone (Complaints, Ambulances) Longwood 6100
i L. WILLARD WALKER, Chief Ofﬁcer

HARRY L. ALLEN DAVID A. BOLTON
HARVEY R. FULLER HOWARD WILLAND

County Prosecuting Ofﬁcers

HERMAN N. DEAN, Boston

Middlesex, Norfolk and Plymouth
FRED T. VICKERS, Lynn Eastern Essex
WILLIAM W. HASWELL, Methuen Western Essex
THEODORE W. PEARSON, Springﬁeld

Hampden, Hampshire and Franklin

ROBERT L. DYSON, Worcester Worcester
WINFIELD E. DUNHAM, New Bedford Bristol
HAROLD G. ANDREWS, Hyannis,

Barnstable, Dukes and Nantucket
T. KING HASWELL, Pittsﬁeld Berkshire

Rest Farm for Horses and Small Animal Shelter,
ethuen

W. W. HASWELL, Superintendent

Women’s Auxiliary of the Mass. S. P. C. A., 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston—MRS. EDITH WASHBURN
CLARKE, Pres.; MRS. A. J. FURBUSH, Treas.; MRS.
AGNES P. FISHER, Ch. Work Com.

Springﬁeld Branch—MRS. DONALD C. KIBBE, Pres.;
MRS. AARON BAGG, Treas.

Winchester Branch—MRS. RICHARD S. TAYLOR,
Pres.; MISS BESSIE SMALL, Treas.

MONTHLY REPORT OF OFFICERS
Miles traveled by humane oﬂ‘icers. . 10,900

Cases investigated ............... 440
Animals examined . ............. 3,641
Number of prosecutions .......... 7
Number of convictions ........... 7
Horses taken from work .......... 11
Horses humanely put to sleep ..... 31

Small animals humanely put tO sleep 995
Stock-yards and Abattoirs

Animals inspected ................ 38,493
Cattle, swine and sheep humanely
put to sleep ................... 16

The Massachusetts Society for the Pre-
vention of Cruelty to Animals has been re-
membered in the will of Mrs. Mary A.
Mullen of Springﬁeld, Leila A. Smith of
Portland, Maine, Emma A. Buckley of
Ware, George F. Poland Of Woburn, Agnes
J. Kerr of Boston, and Edna Blanchard
Lewis of New York City.

March 13, 1934.

Remember Be Kind to Animals Week,
April 16—21, and Humane Sunday, April 15,
1934.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

ANGELL MEMORIAL ANIMAL
HOSPITAL

and Dispensary for Animals
184 Longwood Avenue Telephone, Longwood 6100

Veterinarians

. DAILEY, V.M.D., Chief of Staff
. SCHNEIDER, V.M.D., Asst. Chief
. SCHROEDER, D.V.M.

. SCHNELLE, V.M.D.

. MUNSON, V.M.D.

. BLAKELY, V.M.D.

HARRY L. ALLEN, Superintendent
Springﬁeld Branch
53-57 Bliss Street, Springﬁeld, Mass.
THEODORE W. PEARSON, General Manager
Veterinarians

A. R. EVANS, V.M.D.
H. L. SMEAD, D.V.M.

08¢)me
momma:

 

 

 

HOSPITAL REPORT FOR FEBRUARY
Including Springﬁeld Branch

Hospital Dispensary
Cases entered 568 Cases 1,530
Dogs 430 Dogs 1,259
Cats 124 Cats 245
Birds 6 Birds 20
Horses 5 Rabbits 4
Goats 2 Horses 2

Rabbit 1
Operations 757
Hospital cases since opening, Mar.
1, 1915 ....................... 117,882
Dispensary Cases ............... 271,144
Total ........................ 389,026
The Month in the Springﬁeld Branch
Cases entered in Hospital .......... 82
Cases entered in Dispensary ........ 227
Operations ........................ 158

MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A. IN THE
COURTS

Summary of Prosecutions in February

For subjecting a dog to unnecessary suf-
fering and cruelty, the defendant, who was
a hit-and-run-away driver, was allowed to
plead nOlO and was ﬁned $5.

Failing to provide proper shelter for
his horse, owner was convicted and put on
probation for one year.

A driver of a milk-wagon horse pleaded
nolo to the charge of non-blanketing horse
and case was placed. on ﬁle.

The owner of a horse, cow and thirty
fowls failed to provide them with proper
food, drink and protection from the weather.
He pleaded guilty and paid a ﬁne Of $50.

Two other defendants, both cattle owners,
were before the court for failure to provide
proper shelter and ventilation for their ani-
mals. Both were found guilty. The case Of
one was continued while stable was put in
proper condition. The other paid the costs
Of court and was ordered to repair barn,
which he did with assistance of CWA
workers.

More friends are needed to endow stalls
and new kennels in the Angell Memorial
Animal Hospital. Payments of thirty-ﬁve
dollars for a kennel or seventy-ﬁve dollars
for a stall will insure a suitable marker
inscribed with donor’s name. Terms of per-
manent endowment of free stalls and ken-
nels will be given upon application to the
Massachusetts 5. P. C. A., 180 Longwood

Avenue, Boston.

Page 5’7

Annual Hospitality Day

OSPITALITY Day, under the auspices

Of the Women’s Auxiliary Of the
Massachusetts S. P. C. A., will be held at
the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital, 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston, on Wednesday,
April 11, from 1 to 5 P. M.

All members and friends Of the Society
are cordially invited to attend. There will
be bridge and afternoon tea in charge of
Special committees Of the Auxiliary, while
other members will be delegated to welcome
the guests. These affairs in the past have
been very successful, but it is hoped that
the 1934 event will surpass them all in
interest and attendance.

Royalty’s Best Friend—the
Dog

It is generally accepted that the English
are the greatest nation of dog lovers on
earth. .

One of the strongest proofs Of this hes
in the fact that in almost all the paintings
Of rulers and great men of bygone times a
dog is depicted somewhere. .

In practically all the paintings Of KIng
Charles I, a King Charles spaniel is found.
Who has not heard Of the devotion of a
greyhound to King Richard II? Mary
Queen Of Scots is shown in a picture with a
Skye terrier. This terrier was mISSIng on
the morning Of Mary’s execution, and when
the bloodstained body was taken up, the
animal was found crouching beneath her
robes. He “could not be gotten forth but
with force, and afterwards would not depart
from the corpse, but came and laid between
her head and Shoulders.” A lady took
charge Of him, but the poor thing refused
all further connection with human beings
and ined away.

Veiiy similar was the action of the Pek-
ingese which stood over the bodles of the
czar Of Russia and his family and deﬁed
the assassins until a bullet settled hisOde-
ﬁance forever. A pug once saved the Prince
of Orange by giving warning of .the
approach of a raiding party. The Prlnce
always had a pug of some sort or other so
long as he lived.

Londoner in American Kennel Gazette

O

The last Annual Report Of Mrs. Charlotte
L. Hunt, president Of the Chicago Humane
Education Society, gives its readers a ﬁne
illustration of how much can be accom-
plished even where ﬁnancial resources are
small and little to help in the way Of pub-
lic interest. We wish we could say to all
Chicagoans what the great Apostle once
wrote to an early church, “Help those
women.”

The ﬁfty-eighth annual convention of the
American Humane Association will be held
at Columbus, Ohio, Tuesday, Wednesday
and Thursday, October 9, 10 and 11. Head-
quarters will be at the Neil House.

Our readers are urged to clip from “Our
Dumb Animals” various articles and re-
quest their local editors to republish.
Copies so mutilated will be made good by
us upon application.

 

 




 

 

JUNE I934 ’ PRICE IO CENTS

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THE MASSACHUSETTS SOCIETY FOR THE

PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS
AND THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

  
 
  
   
    

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

. u I p
1. FREE was... Humane [Iterature and Band 01 MBI’BY SllllllllBS
ii“ BOOKLET N0. N-58-A
1' on the tactical te- . .
,Dnovaz (if Wlotms in For sale at 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass, at these pr1ces, postpald.
1
ogs aid :gesbreeds Titles in bold-face type are of books or booklets
. The Great Cruelty, summary of Dr. Rowley’s address on humane slaughtering .................... Free
1 Our DDumb Animals, 1933, bound volume $1.00 Humane Education
1. Our umb Animals, January to Decem- Th H B 11 t f
;, her 1929 1931 and 1932 bound in 5 9% pimaie. . fl. .6. .".". . if??? 33111312211132 ten for $1. 00
cloth, special, each .................. .7 Care and Kindness for Our Animal
1 CAPSULES Colored Posters, 17 x 28 inches, with Friends, 29 pp paper covers, many
. aﬁgraggve pictures and verses, six in $1 00 Killclils. HP7' ...... EM]; .315 cents each; seven for $1. .08
............................. o l 5 ct 2 15 t , f 0
, ﬂ €61“)er 78772006 Be Kind to Animals Blotters, 61/8x3%. .$0.50 per 100 Th1; ‘ﬁasche: suﬁelpg: in HlplplanecEs‘dus-even or $1
Large Roundworlns and Hookworms cation 32 pp. . . each 10 cts
j‘ The safe, easy-to-give worm treatment. About the Horse Humane, EducationL—Ifor. ' Parents ' and ’ '
‘ Dependable. For free 600““ WRITE TO Black Beauty (English), cloth, 45 cents; paper, 20 cts. Teachers, 20p p.p ................... each, 10 cts.
PARKE DAVIS & co The Shame of It—Mutilating the horse An Early Start to Kindness, Lucia F.
5 - by setting up his tail. Dr. Rowley’s Gillaert, 48 pp. For ﬁrst and second
De la N-58- A A ' l I d t D n D - , - protest against this cruelty for fash- . .gra es .............................. each, 10 cts.
-—-$Drug StoreZ‘gﬁlgafﬁgpﬁfs pfiﬁﬁcgftﬁ W131; s Csakettliour Cilluslt 4 Ipap. ”UH. Free PEP"? Illiicesson Cards, each 10 cts., set 35 t
a ons 1 u es rue y, rancis elg ............................ c s.
Rowley .............................. $0. 30 per 100 “Be Kind to Animals” pennants ...... each, 25 cts.
, W Humane Horse Book, 32 pp., 5 cts. ., or. 5_ 00 Elie KIi-ild to Anilizllals” placards ........ each, 3 cts.
“ - . . The Horse—Treatment of Sores; etc... .60 “ “ e umane ea Dr. Francis H.
{ Skin Health Derived from Dally ‘ I'i‘Iililmaiile Educlation Leaﬂet, No. 5 ...... .38 “ “ F Rovzlley Haul-1.1. . ’. . . . ((31th 35 cts. .f, paper, 15 cts.
. e orse’s rayer ................... . “ “ men s an epers se ections or
,, Use Of the ‘ The Bell of Atri, poem by Longfellow .. .50 “ “ Aschoal use),SSarall1) J. Edd; ......... cloth, 96 cts.
1 nlma s as een y t e oets, Guy
CUTICURA ‘ About the Dog Richardson, 32 pp... .,cloth 35 cts. ; paper, 10 cts.
PBEPABATIﬂN Beautiful Joe, new, illus., $1.50 ........ small, 50 cts. Address to Boston P1111119 SChOOlS ------ $2 00 per 1,0,0
S ‘ Distemper in Dogs, Dr. Schneider ...... Free Lessons on Kindness to Animals ------- 3 00
P 25 h S 1 fr Rabies vs. Running Fits, Dr. Schneider Free The BﬂK—T—A_C111b play, 3 cts each ten for 25c.
Add (fice ‘3 93: amP ‘3 00- ‘ Eulogy on the Dog by Vest post- card . $1. 00 per 100 Fred Changes His Mind, play, 5 cts. each; six for 25c.
fess cuticum’ Dept’3K’ Malden’Mass‘ 4 The Dog—Its Care,in Health and Disease .60 “And a Little Chﬂd 811311 Lead Them,”
,; Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 3 and 4 .50 “ “ Frgéids (311?an 111‘. - ﬂ; {3513135- each; ten for 25 0‘58-
j 1 What the Chained Dog Says ........... .50 “ “ an ea e ay
'1 . The Story of Barry ................... .30 “ “ . . 3 cts each;ten for 25 0118'
1'; - Humane Day 1n Schools, w1th class-room
;' Ab t th B‘ d project, 8 pp. ....................... $2.00 per 100
. THIS SPACE 0“ e 11' Humane Education the Vital Need, Dr.
1} :ﬁile 'lBirdls (faftfnog: 3:118 plp. , illus, ....... $2c1)%th, $0. .35) Rowley, short radio address, 3 cts. each; 1.50 “ “
, - e ma 0 e 1r s p ay ............ per 1 Our Little Brothers and Sisters, sermon
«i 1 Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos.1 and 2 .50 “ “ for boys and girls, by Dr. Jefferson .. .50 “ “
,1 CONTRIBUTED ' How the Blrds Help the Farmer ....... .50 “ “ Humane Education, What to Teach and
‘1 Th ' ' “ (K “ S‘
1% 1 . e Air-gun and the Birds ............ .50 O ItIqu to fTeéacclfii It . 'H ........ Ed. . . t; . . 1. .28 “ ‘
1 1 u Ines o u y in umane uca lOIl ‘
;. About the Cat Early Lessons in Kindness or Cruelty .. .50 “ “
*1 __ A Talk with the Teacher .............. .50 “ “
‘1 1 $351,321; Cat: Care in Health and Disease $0 68 per 100 Our Love for Animals, a short radio ad-
1 1 Th C t L’t t """""""""""" 0 .. .. dress ....................... 5 cts. each; 2. 50 “ “
, l D eN a in 1 era ure """""""""" '5 A Festival of Tender Mercies .......... .50 “ “
z t Leave Your Cat to Starve ...... .50 “ “
1 . HO O a, _ .. .. The Coming Education ................ .30 " “
1 PLEASE READ The Beggar Cat, 13081; card, 6 cts. doz. '50 A Great Prophecy, Dr. Rowley ......... Free
‘1 , ‘ ‘6 T h C S h a m e Of I t” About Other Animals Argerhlai'aigancHfﬁleanlt:rEsdggaltisonarSlgciEt; . Free
1' . > Prince Rudolf’s Quest, Kenniston, 150
1 On page Q0 of 121118 number, and then Tlim ”St siecial Sh ...................... boards, 50 cts. Band Of Mercy
i 1 ‘ . send for as many of the leaﬂets as F0: Pit]; se s21. 3116.57. 010th . .3.0. .c.t.s. . . .papgi’ iii: iiyigT—dBafd illimlvllclei’cy BliigriiZhethsie.
f you can dlStI’lbute to advantage Michael Brother of Jerry, Jack London, cloth, 75 cts. ciety, or S P C, A ’ ,,,,,,,,,,,,,, $1 00 per 100
,1, First Aid to Animals, Dr. Schneider, 8 pp. $1. 00 per 100 Buttons—white star on blue ground with
.‘ What is the Jack London Club? ....... .30 gilt letters and border, one cent each 1.00 “ “
i Foiglvggrfi from “Michael Brother of 30 Badges, gold ﬁnish, large, 10 cts. ....... small, 5 cts.
. . .............................. . “ “ “Band of Mercy” Pennant ........... 35 cts.
, Since 1332 ﬁllsvgpfg igilihgnri‘frfacils (£11368qu pf. i3?) “ “ Songs of Happy Life, with music, S.
. mane y, pp. . . “ “ ............................
J. S, WATER Leaﬂet, No. 6, Animals ................ .50 “ “ J Ed dy 50 Cts'
, Songs of yHappy Life (56 pages words
; ’ Leaﬂet. No. 7, Farm Animals .......... .50 “ “ only) ........................ ’ ....... $ 3. 00 per 100
h mnbertake 5 Enlits on the Care of Cows ............ .50 “ “ Band of Mercy Membership Card ,,,,,, 50
1; 1 r Wig: fgfr 113%:(5111; 0f P0111’CI‘Y .......... g8 :: :: How to Form Bands of Mercy ......... .50 “ “
. BOSTON—BROOKLINE—CAMBRIDGE .................... . Does 1t Pay, story of one Band of Mercy .30
, . . City and Out_of_Town Service Please enclose rematta'nee ’LU’lth orders for less than $1
1

 

 

 

 

AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY, 180 Longwood Ave., Boston, Mass.

 

 

 

 

Best Humane Films!
ON BEHALF OF ANIMALS

Made for the M. S. P. C. A. in 1933 by the Universit

y Film Foundation, showing the activities of the An 11
1 Animal Hospital of the Massachusetts S. P. C. A., Boston, scenes at the Society’s Rest Farm for Horsgees,
; Methuen, and glimpses of the Society’s Animal Shelters. Two reels, 30 minutes.

THE BELL OF ATRI

Made for the American Humane Education Society some years ago, but still in great demand.

State whether regular 35 mm., or 16 mm. is required

Terms on application to Secretary, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   




 

 

u U 8. Trade Mark, Registered \

ANGELL m 1868. AND FOR FORTy.
1.

The Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

The American Humane Education Society

The American Band of Mercy

I would not enter on my list of friends,
Though graced with polished manners and ﬁne sense,
Yet wanting sensibility, the man
Who needlessly sets foot upon a worm.
—COWPER

AND Mencv 'r‘o*
EVERY LIVING
CREATURE.

 

Published monthly by the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood, Massachusetts

Entered as second-class matter, June 29, 1917, at the Post Ofﬁce at Norwood, Mass. ., under the Act of March 3,1879
Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 3, 1917, authorized, July 13,1919

Boston Ofﬁce, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

 

Vkﬂ.67

February,l934

lﬁo.2

February, 1809---Abraham Lincoln---February, 1934

NE hundred and twenty-ﬁve years ago

a child was born whose mother could
no more have dreamed of what that birth
hour was to mean not only to this country
but to humanity than the mother of the
Child of Bethlehem could have dreamed of
a world ringing with Christmas carols nine-
teen centuries from that day. Of Abraham
Lincoln, the great American, we quote again
from the words of the late Albert E. Pills—
bury in his “Lincoln and Slavery”:

When the conﬂict between Freedom and
Slavery in this nation was approaching its
crisis, in the struggle for possession of the
Nebraska territory, a new and singular ﬁg-
ure appeared at the front of political battle
in the West, moved to the head of events,
passed across the world’s stage, and in the
short space of seven years had vanished

The Shame of It

This is important. See following page.
We want the help of every Massachusetts
reader. A bill to stop the cruel practice of
mutilating a horse for fashion’s sake and
show purposes is coming before the present
legislature.

Won’t you write to your senator and
representative to support the bill? If you
don’t know their names, send us a postal
and we will tell you. A postal will also
bring you copies of “The Shame of It” to
distribute.

It is also very important that you come
to the hearing on the bill. If we hear from
you we will write you the date of the
hearing.

One of the best things Gov. Andrew ever
said was: “I do not know what record of
sin may await me in the other world, but
this I do know, that I was never mean
enough to despise anyone because he was
poor, because he was ignorant, or because
he was black.”

from the sight of man.

Within such narrow bounds of time lies
a career the like of which is not to be found
in history. In the elements of wonder and
marvel, the story of Abraham Lincoln’s
life and death is without parallel or ex-
ample. From the mean cabin in the Ken-
tucky woods to the ﬁnal peak of transﬁg—
uration, it moves in the successive acts of
a great tragic drama, reaching the high-
water mark of human achievement and
sounding every note in the gamut of human
emotion.

He was the most unpretentious of men,
set in the homeliest framework, thinking
with the power of Plato, seeing with the
eye of the Sibyl, speaking like the Hebrew
prophets. The unlettered man of the people

All lovers of wild bird life will be glad
to know that public opinion, and this even
among many hunters, is steadily growing in
this country and Canada against the use of
live decoys to allure wild ducks and geese
to within range of the hunter’s gun. One
might think a real sportsman would want
to give his victims at least a fair chance
for life.

We thought the offer of prizes by the In-
ternational Dental Federation for experi-
ments on the teeth of living dogs had been
withdrawn. The refusal of the chief ofﬁcers
of the Federation to conﬁrm any such state-
ment or even to reply to enquiries leads
many of us to believe the revolting cruelties
of these experiments are still practised.

Space is emptier than anything we can
imagine. Leave only three wasps alive in
the whole of Europe and the air of Europe
will still be more crowded with wasps than
SIR JAMES H. JEANS

space is with stars.

speaks lofty eloquence, soon to become
classic. The raw politician, who never held
public power for a day, takes the helm of
state when the ship is already on the rocks,
when all the pilots and captains stand help-
less and appalled, to bring her in safety and
triumph through the storm. The awkward
rustic, reviled and lampooned over two con-
tinents, in four years is canonized by man-
kind. Without origin, without training,
without an external attraction, without a
worldly advantage, the meanly-born child
of a poor and shiftless emigrant makes his
way out of the wilderness to ﬁx for all time
the eyes of the world as leader of a people,
liberator of the slave, deliverer of his coun-
try, and in another turn of the kaleidoscope,
to be numbered with martyrs and saints
in glory everlasting.

The Great Cruelty

We shall never let our readers forget it.
What is it? It’s the wholly unnecessary
cruelty inflicted day after day upon the
100,000,000 of our food animals, cattle,
sheep and swine that annually are killed
in the abattoirs and slaughter-pens of our
land. Our methods of killing are barbar-
ous, unworthy of a civilized people. There
are foreign countries that by law forbid
our cruel methods. Why do we permit
them? Because we never seek to pierce the
veil that hangs between our tables and the
bloody ﬂoors over which came the living
things whose ﬂesh lies upon our plates.
Could we see them, hear them, we should
demand in the name of both God and man
that humaneness and a decent regard for
suffering should be thought of in their
slaughter as well as money. Do you want
to help us against this cruelty? A postal
card will bring you our “Great Cruelty”
leaflet to distribute, as many as you can
use. Won’t you do at least as much as this?

Already over 15,000 have been asked for.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

July, 1931;

 

Founded by Geo. T. Angell. Incorporated March, 1868

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds

JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board

CHARLES G. BANCROF’T, Vice-President, United Shoe
Machinery Corporation

PHILIP STOCKTON, President, First National Bank of
Boston

Prosecuting Ofﬁcers in Boston

Telephone (Complaints, Ambulances) Longwood 6100
L. WILLARD WALKER, Chief Officer

HARRY L. ALLEN DAVID A. BOLTON
HARVEY R. FULLER HOWARD WILLAND

County Prosecuting Ofﬁcers
HERMAN N. DEAN, Boston
Middlesex, Norfolk and Plymouth
FRED T. VICKERS, Lynn Eastern Essex
WILLIAM W. HASWELL, Methuen Western Essex

THEODORE W. PEARSON, Springﬁeld
Hampden, Hampshire and Franklin

ROBERT L. DYSON, Worcester Worcester
WINFIELD E. DUNHAM, New Bedford Bristol

HAROLD G. ANDREWS, Hyannis,
Barnstable, Dukes and Nantucket
T. KING HASWELL, Pittsﬁeld Berkshire

Rest Farm for Horses and Small Animal Shelter,
ethuen

W. W. HASWELL, Superintendent

Women’s Auxiliary of the Mass. S. P. C. A., 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston—MRS. EDITH WASHBURN
CLARKE, Pres.; MRS. A. J. FURBUSH, Treas.; MRS.
AGNES P. FISHER, Ch. Work Com.

Springﬁeld Branch—MRS. DONALD C. KIBBE, Pres.;
MRS. AARON BAGG, Treas.

Winchester Branch—MRS. RICHARD S. TAYLOR,
Pres; MISS BESSIE SMALL, Treas.

MONTHLY REPORT OF SOCIETY
AND BRANCHES

Miles traveled by humane Ofﬁcers. . 15,712

Cases investigated ............... 493
Animals examined ............... 4,062
Animals placed in homes ......... 80
Lost animals restored to owners. . . 25
Number of prosecutions .......... 14
Number of convictions ........... 11
Horses taken from work .......... 32
Horses humanely put to sleep ..... 42
Small animals humanely put to sleep 1,577
Stock-yards and Abattoirs

Animals inspected ................ 42,007
Cattle, swine and sheep humanely

put to sleep ................... 30

The Massachusetts Society for the Pre-
vention of Cruelty to Animals has been re-
membered in the wills of Mrs. Mary A.
Willson of Boston; Lulu S. Symmes of
HammOnd, Indiana; Esther J. Prevaux Of
Amesbury; Ellen McCartney of Newton;
and Fanny Foster of Newport, Rhode Island.

June 12, 1934.

O O
0

Do not abandon pets in vacation.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

ANGELL MEMORIAL ANIMAL
HOSPITAL

and Dispensary for Animals

184 Longwood Avenue Telephone, Longwood 6100
Veterinarians

DAILEY, v.M.D., Chief of Staff

. SCHNEIDER, v.M.D., Asst. Chief
SCHROEDER, D.V.M.
SCHNELLE, v.M.D.

. MUNSON, v.M.D.

BLAKELY, v.M.D.

HARRY L. ALLEN, Superintendent
Springﬁeld Branch

53-57 Bliss Street, Springﬁeld, Mass.
THEODORE W. PEARSON, General Manager
Veterinarians

A. R. EVANS, v.M.D.
H. L. SMEAD, D.V.M.

Oﬂﬂmwm
rename

 

 

 

HOSPITAL REPORT FOR MAY
Including Springﬁeld Branch

Hospital Dispensary
Cases entered 714 Cases 2,347
Dogs 5-73 Dogs 1,929
Cats 127 Cats 344
Birds 8 Birds 62
Horses 5 Rabbits 7
Rabbit 1 Horses 2

Guinea Pig 1

Squirrel 1

Turtle 1
Operations 962

Hospital cases since opening, Mar.

1, 1915 ....................... 120,194
Dispensary Cases ................ 277,834
Total ......................... 398,028

The Month in the Springﬁeld Branch

Cases entered in Hospital ........... 103
Cases entered in Dispensary ........ 305
Operations ........................ 177

MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A. IN THE
COURTS

Summary of Prosecutions in May

A defendant who had custody of ﬁfteen
head of stock and two horses was charged
with failure to provide them with proper
food, drink, shelter and protection from the
geather. He pleaded nolo and paid a ﬁne of

25.

For cruelly driving a horse that was unﬁt
for labor, an offender, upon a plea of nolo,
was ﬁned $20 and the horse was destroyed.

For knowingly and wilfully permitting a
dog to be subjected to unnecessary cruelty
and suffering, a defendant pleaded guilty
and paid a ﬁne of $25.

Overworking a horse that was unﬁt for
labor by reason of lameness, defendant
found guilty and ﬁned $25.

For subjecting a dog to unnecessary
cruelty and suffering caused by frozen feet
which had been uncared for, owner of ani-
mal was convicted and ﬁned $15.

For cruelly driving a horse afﬂicted with
harness galls, defendant was ﬁned $20; sen-
tence suspended for two months.

The owner of a horse was charged with
the Offense of selling same when it was unﬁt
for labor on account of lameness. He was
found guilty and ﬁned $5. The horse was
ordered destroyed.

The promoter of a cock-ﬁght was appre-
hended, convicted and ﬁned $50, and ap-
pealed. Thirty—six of those present, where
preparations were being made for an exhi-
bition of the ﬁghting of birds, were ﬁned

Page 105

Annual Auxiliary Meeting

Massachusetts S. P. C. A. Women Re-elect
Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke, President

BOUT one hundred members and

guests of the Women’s Auxiliary of
the Massachusetts S. P. C. A. enjoyed their
annual banquet at Hotel Kenmore, Boston,
May 23. Mrs. Clarke, president, acted as
toastmaster in her usual felicitous manner.
The chief guest was Mrs. Frederick W.
Mansﬁeld, who brought the greetings of her
husband, the mayor of Boston, and told of
her own interest in hospital work. Other
speakers include-d Mrs. Henry W. Hildreth,
second Vice—president of the Massachusetts
Federation of Women’s Clubs; Mr. B. J.
Osborne, who spoke on “A Year’s Results
of the N. R. A.”; Mrs. Wm. J. McDonald,
ﬁrst president of the Auxiliary; Miss Mary
Claire, director of the: Sixth district of the
State Federation; President Francis H.
Rowley of the Massachusetts S. P. C. A.;
Mrs. Donald C. Kibbe, president of the
Springﬁeld Branch of the Women’s Aux-
iliary; Mrs. Richard S. Taylor, president Of
the Winchester Branch; and Mr. J. P.
Westcott who told of the cruelty of setting
up horses’ tails and of the attitude of the
more enlightened horsemen who are Opposed
to this custom.

A dramatic moment occurred at the close
of Mr. Westcott’s address, when President
Rowley announced that he had just received
a message. from the State House saying that
Governor Ely had that afternoon signed
the bill, sponsored by the Society, which w111
prevent the showing of horses with docked
or set-up tails. The various speeches were
interspersed with music, including vocal
solos by Mrs. Mary Nevery. Mrs. George A.
Ramlose headed the committee of hostesses
which consisted also of Mrs. F. Hilliard
Young, Mrs. W. C. Bliss, Mrs. Leona
Cooney, Mrs. Charles Staniek, Mrs. Ben-
jamin Blakney, Mrs. Charles Hoyt, Mrs.
Colton Moore, and Mrs. James J. Corbet.

At the business meeting of the Auxiliary
Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke was unani-
mously re-elected president. Other ofﬁcers
chosen were Mrs. Arthur W. Hurlburt and
Mrs. Frank S. Hobbs, vice—presidents; Mrs.
A. J. Furbush, treasurer; Mrs. W. G. Bliss,
recording secretary; Charles C. Hoyt, cor-
responding secretary; Mrs. A. P. Fisher,
chairman of the work committee; Mrs.
Harry Cole, chairman of ways and means;
and for directors, Mrs. Edward C. Brown,
Mrs. W. W. Haswell and Mrs. George A.
Ramlose, for two years; and Mrs. William
J. McDonald, Miss Helen Potter and Mrs.
Herbert E. Prescott for one year.

/

$10 each. By an order of the court, the
seventy-four birds seized were killed and
distributed among needy familles.

For cruelly overdriving a horse, defendant
pleaded guilty and was sentenced one month
to the House of Correction. The sentence
was suspended one year with understanding
that the horse be destroyed.

Taunton Branch

The Taunton Branch of the Massachu-
setts S. P. C. A. took care of ninety-seven
animals during April and May. A tag day,
food sale and bridge netted the Branch a
substantial sum.




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

FREE Write for

BOOKLET NO. N—58—C
on the practical re-
moval of Worms in
Dogs of all breeds
and ages.

  
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
   

WORM
CAPSULES

ﬁectz’vely remove

Large Ro "r s and Hookworms

The safe, easy-to- give worm treatment.
Dependable. For free booklet WRITE T0

PARKE, DAVIS 81. CO.

Desk N -58-C Animal Industry Dept, Detroit, Mich.
—- Drug Stores Sell Parke-Davis Products. —

 

 

 

 

 

 

See picture on page 37 of the new
Morgan Dennis poster for

BE KIND TO ANIMALS WEEK
April 15-21

One of these should be displayed
in every school-room in the land.

American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

 

 

 

 

 

THIS SPACE
CONTRIBUTED

 

 

 

 

 

 

A

' All the Family Should Use

Cutieura Taleum

Ideal after Baby’s bath, to complete
Mother’s toilet, after Father’s shave.

Price 250. Sample free.
Address: ‘Cut1cura,” Dept 10K, Malden,Mass.

 

k..-

 

 

 

Since 1832

J. S. WATERMAN & SONS, INC.

ﬁlmmakers

BOSTON—BROOKLINIii—CAMBRIDGE
City and Out-of-Town Service

 

 

 

 

 

Humane Literature and Band of Mercy Supplies

for Be Kind to Animals Anniversary, April 16- 21
and Humane Sunday, April 15, 1934

For sale at 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass, at these prices, postpaid.

Titles in bold-face type are of books or booklets
The Great Cruelty, summary of Dr. Rowley’s address on humane slaughtering .................... Free

Our Dumb Animals, 1933, bound volume $1.00
Our Dumb Animals, January to Decem-

ber, 1929, 1931, and 1932, bound in

cloth, special, each .................. .75
Colored Posters, 17 x 28 inches, with

attractive pictures and verses, six in

the set ............................. $1.00
Be Kind to Animals Blotters, 61/8x3%..$0.50 per 100

About the Horse
Black Beauty (English), cloth, 45 cents; paper, 20 cts.
The Shame of It—Mutilating the horse
by setting up his tail. Dr. Rowley’s
protest against this cruelty for fash-

ion’s sake. Four illus., 4 pp. ....... Free
What Constitutes Cruelty, Francis H.

Rowley .............................. $0.30 per 100
Humane Horse Book, 32 pp., 5 cts. ., or 5. 00
The Horse—Treatment of Sores; etc... .60 “ “
Humane Education Leaﬂet, No. 5 ...... .50 “ “
The Horse’s Pray er ................... .30 “ “
The Bell of Atri, poem by Longfellow .. 50 “ “

About the Dog

Beautiful Joe, new, illus., $1.50 ........ small, 50 cts.
Distemper in Dogs, Dr. Schneider ...... Free
Rabies vs. Running Fits, Dr. Schneider Free

Eulogy on the Dog, by Vest, post- card . $1.00 per 100
The Dog—~Its Care in Health and Disease .60
Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 3 and 4 .50 “ “

What the Chained Dog Says ........... .50 “ “
The Story of Barry ................... .30 “ “
About the Bird
The Birds of God, 318 pp. ., illus, ....... cloth, $0. 45
The Trial of the Birds, play ............ $2. 00 per 100

Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 1 and 2 .50
How the Birds Help the Farmer ....... .50 “ “
The Air-gun and the Birds ............ .50 “ “

About the Cat
The Cat—Its Care in Health and Disease $0.60 per 100
Surplus Cats .50
The Cat in Literature ................. .50 “ “
Do Not Leave Your Cat to Starve ...... .50 “ “
“The Beggar Cat,” post-card, 6 cts. doz. .50 “ “

..........................

About Other Animals
Prince Rudolf’s Quest, Kenniston, 150

pp., spec1a1 ........................ boards, 50 cts.
The Strike at Shane’s, cloth, 30 cts. .,paper 7 cts.
For Pity’ s Sake ....................... paper, 5 cts.

Michael Brother of Jerry, Jack London, cloth, 75 cts.
First Aid to Animals, Dr. Schneider, 8 pp $1. 00 per 100
What is the Jack London Club? .30
Foreword from “Michael Brother of

.......

Jerry” .............................. .30 “ “
Gripped in the Teeth of Steel, 2 pp. .. . . 1.00 “ “
How to Kill Animals Humanely, 4 pp. . 1.00 “ “
Leaﬂet, No. 6, Animals ................ .50 “ “
Leaﬂet, No. 7, Farm Animals .......... .50 “ “
Hints on the Care of Cows ............ .50 “ “
Rules for the Care of Poultry .......... .60 “ “
Ways of Kindness .................... .50' “ “

Humane Education

The Humane Bulletin, for use in schools,
pp. ................. 12 cents each; ten for $1. 00

Care and Kindness for Our Animal

Friends, 29 pp., paper covers, many
illus. ................ 15 cents each ; seven for $1.00
Kindness Picture Book, 32 pp. 15 cts. ; seven for $1.00

The Teacher’s Helper in Humane Edu-
cation, 32 pp. ...................... each, 10 cts.

Humane Education—for Parents and
Teachers, 20p p.p ................... each, 10 cts.

An Early Start to Kindness, Lucia F.

Gilbert, 48 pp. For ﬁrst and second

grades .............................. each, 10 cts.
Picture Lesson Cards, each 10 cts., set

of eight ............................ 35 cts.
“Be Kind to Animals” pennants ...... each, 25 cts.
“Be Kind to Animals” placards ........ each, 3 cts.
The Humane Idea, Dr. Francis H. ~

Rowley ............... cloth, 35 cts.; paper, 15 cts.
Friends and Helpers (selections for

school use), Sarah J. Eddy ......... cloth, 96 cts.
Animals as Seen by the Poets, Guy

Richardson, 32 pp. ....cloth, 35 cts.; paper, 10 cts.
Address to Beston Public Schools ...... $2. 00 per 100

Lessons on Kindness to Animals ....... 3 00 “ “
The B—K—T—A—Club, play, 3 cts. each; ten for 25c.
Fred Changes His Mind, play, 5cts. each; six for 25c.
“And a Little Child Shall Lead Them,’
payl .................... 3 cts. each; ten for 25 cts.
Friends of Fur and Feather, play
3 cts. each; ten for 25 cts.
Humane Day in Schools, with class-room
project, 8 pp. ....................... $2.00 per 100
Humane Education the Vital Need, Dr.
Rowley, short radio address, 3 cts. each; 1.50 “ “
Our Little Brothers and Sisters, sermon

for boys and girls, by Dr. Jefferson .. .50 “ “
Humane Education, What to Teach and

How to Teach It .................... .50 “ “
Outlines of Study in Humane Education 1. 50 “ “
Early Lessons in Kindness or Cruelty .. .50 “ “
A Talk with the Teacher .............. .50 “ “ ~
Our Love for Animals, a short radio ad-

dress ...................... 5 cts. each, 2.50 “ “
A Festival of Tender Mercies .......... .50 “ “
The Coming Education ................ .30 " “
A Great Prophecy, Dre. Rowley ......... Free
American College Presidents and the

American Humane Education Society . Free

Band of Mercy

“Be Kind to Animals” Buttons, three

styles—Band of Mercy, Humane So-

ciety, or S. P. C. A. ................ $1. 00 per 100
Buttons—white star on blue ground with

gilt letters and border, one cent each 1.00 “ “
Badges, gold ﬁnish, large, 10 cts. ....... small, 5 cts.
“Band of Mercy” Pennant ........... 35 cts.
$031555ng Happy Life, with music, S.

............................ 50 cts.
Songs of Happy Life (56 pages, words

only) ............................... $3. 00 per 100
Bandy of Mercy Membership Card ......
How to Form Bands of Mercy ......... .50 “ “

Does it Pay, story of one Band of Mercy .30 “ “

Please enclose remittance with orders for less than $1

AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY, 180 Longwood Ave., Boston, Mass.

 

 

 

 

Best Humane Films!
ON BEHALF OF ANIMALS

Made for the M. S. P. C. A. in 1933 by the University Film Foundation, showin
Animal Hospital of the Massachusetts S. P. C. A., Boston, scenes at the Socie
Methuen, and glimpses of the Society’s Animal Shelters.

State whether regular 35 mm, or 16 mm. is required

Terms on application to Secretary, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston

Two reels, 30 minutes.

THE BELL OF ATRI

Made for the American Humane Education Society some years ago, but still in great demand.

g the activities of the Angel]
ty’ s Rest Farm for Horses,

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

a. .az-.n YW_. :,

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

: FREE ' Write for
BOOKLET NO. 652

 
    
    
  

'0' on the practical re-
moval of worms in
DOGS Dogs of all breeds

and ages.

TETRACHLORETHYLENE C. T.

WORM CAPSULES

ﬂeetioely remove

large Roundworms and Hookworms

The safe, easy-to-give worm treatment.
Dependable. For free booklet WRITE TO

PARKE, 'El-AVS 8; C0.

Dex/e N-58— T,Animal Induttry Dept, Detroit, Mich.
-- Drug Stores Sell Parke-Davis Products. —-

  
   

 

 

 

 

 

 

THIS SPACE
CONTRIBUTED

 

 

 

 

 

   

 

For Baby’s Tender Skin
Cuticura Talcum

Medicated and pure, it prevents chaf-
ing and assures Baby’s comfort.
Price 250. Sample free.

 

Address: "Cuticura,” Dept. 11K,Malden, Mass.

_‘ . i'. ', I ’3‘ .

 

 

 

A HUMANE LIBRARY FOR $1
Bound volumes of OUR DUMB ANIMALS
for 1933, twelve numbers, 192 pp., 150 illus-
trations, green cloth, gilt titles. An attractive
gift to hotels, hospitals, institutions of all
kinds, and to individuals. Order today from

180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

 

 

 

 

 

 

Since 1832

J. S. WATERMAN & SONS, Inc.
@nhtttaktts

BOSTON—BROOKLINIii—CAMBRIDGE
City and Out-of-Town Service

 

 

 

 

Humane literature and Band of Mercy Supplies

For Sale at 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass. at these prices, postpaid.

Titles in bold-face type are of books or booklets
The Great Cruelty, summary of Dr. Rowley’s address on humane slaughtering .................. Free

Our Dumb Animals, 1933, bound volume $1.00
Our Dumb Animals, January to Decem-

ber, 1929, 1930. and 1931. bound in

cloth, special, each .................. .75
Colored Posters, 17 x 28 inches, with

attractive pictures and verses, six in

the set .............................. 1.00
Be Kind to Animals Blotters, 6%x3% .. $0.50 per 100

About the Horse

Black Beauty (English), cloth, 45 cents;paper, 20 cts.
The Shame of It—Mutilating the horse

by setting up his tail. Dr. Rowley’s

protest against this cruelty for fash-

ion’s sake. Four illus., 4 pp. ....... Free
What Constitutes Cruelty, Francis H.

Rowley ............................. $0.30 per 100
Humane Horse Book, 32 pp., 5 cts., or.. 5.00 “ “
The Horse—Treatment of Sores; etc .. .60 “ “
Humane Education Leaﬂet, No. 5 ...... .50 “ “
The Horse’s Prayer ................... .30 “ “
The Bell of Atri, Poem by Longfellow .. 50 “ “

About the Dog
Beautiful Joe, new, illus., $1.50 ........ small, 50 cts.
Distemper in Dogs, Dr. Schneider ...... Free
Rabies vs. Running Fits, Dr. Schneider . Free

Eulogy on the Dog, by Vest, post-card . . $1.00 per 100
The Dog—Its Care in Health and Disease .60 “ “
Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 3 and 4 .50 “ “
What the Chained Dog Says ........... .50 “ “
The Story of Barry .................... .30 “ “

About the Bird

The Birds of God, 318 pp., illus. ...... cloth, $0.45
The Trial of the Birds, play .......... $2.00 per 100
Humane Education Leaﬂets. Nos. 1 and 2 .50 “ “
How the Birds Help the Farmer ...... .50 ‘ ‘
The Air-gun and the Birds ............ .50 “ “

About the Cat

The Cat—Its Care in Health and Disease $0.60 per 100
Surplus Cats .50 “ “
The Cat in Literature ................ .50 “ “
Do Not Leave Your Cat to Starve ...... .50 “ “
“The Beggar Cat,” post-card, 6 cts. doz. .50 “ “

About Other Animals
Prince Rudolf’s Quest, Kenniston, 150

pp., spec1al ......................... boards, 50 cts.
The Strike at Shane’s, cloth, 3O cts. .. paper, 7cts.
For Pity’s Sake ....................... paper, 5 cts.
Michael Brother of Jerry, Jack London, cloth, 75 cts.

First Aid to Animals, Dr. Schneider, 8 pp. $1.00 per 100
What is the Jack London Club? .30 “ “
Foreword from “Michael Brother of

Jerry” ........................... .30 “ “
Gripped in the Teeth of Steel, 2 pp. 1.00 ‘ “
How to Kill Animals Humanely, 4 pp. . . 1.00 " “
Leaﬂets, No. 6, Animals ............... .50 “ “
Leaﬂets, No. 7, Farm Animals ......... .50 “ “
Hints on the Care of Cows ............ .50 “ “
Rules for the Care of Poultry .......... .60 “ “
Ways of Kindness ..................... .50 “ “

Humane Education

The Humane Bulletin, for use in schools,
pp. ................. 12 cents each ; ten for $1.00

Care and Kindness for Our Animal

Friends, 29 pp., paper covers, many
illus. ................. 15 cents each ; seven for $1.00
Kindness Picture Book, 32 pp., 15 cts. ; seven for $1.00

The Teacher’s Helper in Humane Edu-

cation, 32 pp. ...................... each, 10 cts.
Humane Education—for Parents and
Teachers, 20 pp. .................... each, 10 cts.

An Early Start to Kindness, Lucia F.
Gilbert, 48 pp. For ﬁrst and second

grades ............................. each, 10 cts.
Picture Lesson Cards, each 10 cts., set

of eight ............................ 35 cts.
“Be Kind to Animals” pennants ....... each 25 cts.
“Be Kind to Animals” placards ....... each, 3 cts.
The Humane Idea, Dr. Francis H.

Rowley ................. cloth, 35 cts. ; paper, 15 cts.
Friends and Helpers (selections for

school use), Sarah J. Eddy .......... cloth, 96 cts.
Animals as Seen by the Poets, Guy

Richardson, 32 pp. . . . .’ ............... cloth, 35 cts.
Lessons on Kindness to Animals ....... $3.00 per 100

The B—K—T—A—Club, play, 3 cts.each;ten for 25c.
Fred Changes His Mind, play, 5 cts. each;six for 25c.
“And a Little Child Shall Lead Them.”
play .................. 3 cts. each; ten for 25 cts.
Friends of Fur and Feather, play,
3 cts. each; ten for 25 cts.
Humane Exercises for use in Schools
(1934) .............................. $1.50 per 100
Humane Day in Schools, with class-room
project, 8 pp. ....................... 2.00 “ “
Humane Education the Vital Need, Dr.
Rowley, short radio address, 3 cts. each; 1.50
Our Little Brothers and Sisters, sermon

‘0 (I

for boys and girls, by Dr. Jefferson .. .50 “ “
Humane Education, What to Teach and
How to Teach It .. ................ .50 ‘

Outlines of Study in Humane Education 1.50

Early Lessons in Kindness or Cruelty .50
A Talk with the Teacher .............. .50
Our Love for Animals, a short radio ad-

dress .. ................ 5 cts. each; 2.50
Hints for Humane Sunday ............. .75
A Festival of Tender Mercies .......... .50 ‘
The Coming Education ............... .30 ‘ ‘
A Great Prophecy, Dr. Rowley ......... Free
American College Presidents and the

American Humane Education Society .. Free

Band of Mercy

“Be Kind to Animals” Buttons, three
styles—Band of Mercy, Humane So-
ciety, or S. P. C. A. ................ $1.00 per 100

Buttons—white star on blue ground with
gilt letters and border, one cent each 1.00

6‘ (I

Badges, gold ﬁnish, large, 10 cts. ....... small, 5 cts.
“Band of Mercy” Pennant ........... 35 cts.
Songs of Happy Life, with music, S.

J. Eddy ........................... 50 cts.
Songs of Happy Life (56 pages, words

only) ............................... $3.00 per 100
Band of Mercy Membership Card ...... .50 “ “
How to Form Bands of Mercy .......... .50

Does it Pay, Story of one Band of Mercy .30 “ “

Please enclose remittance with orders for less than $1

AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY, 180 Longwood Ave., Boston, Mass.

 

 

 

 

 

Do You Realize the Value of Superior Humane Films for use in Theater, Church, Club or School?

THE BELL OF ATRI

Illustrating Longfellow’s humane poem of that title, has been exhibited before enthusiastic audiences not only
throughout the Unlted States and Canada but in every continent (except Australia) on the globe.

ON BEHALF OF ANIMALS

. Newly ﬁlmed by the Harvard University Foundation; the most up-to-date and comprehensive pictorial representa-
tion of the act1v1t1es of a Humane Society yet offered to the public; showing the work of the Angell Memorial Animal

Hospital and the Rest Home for Horses of the Massachusetts S. P. C. A.

Both ﬁlms are available for purchase or rental in 16 mm. and 35 mm. size. Write for full particulars to

Secretary, American Humane Education Society, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
      
       
 

 
  

PEACE ON EARTH, .
KINDNESS, JUSTICE o :
AND MERCY 'ro
EVERY LIVING
CREATURE.

7.
m
i";

 

Founded by Geo. T. Angell Incorporated 1889

For rates of membership in both of our Societies
see back cover. Checks should be made payable to
Treasurer.

Ofﬁcers of the American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds
JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board

CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President, United Shoe
Machinery Corporation

PHILIP STOCKTON, President, First National Bank of
Boston

Foreign Corresponding Representatives

George B. Duff ................... Australia

Luis Pareja Cornejo .............. Ecuador

Charles A. Williams .............. France

Leonard T. Hawksley ............. Italy

Mrs. Mary P. E. Nitobe .......... Japan

Mrs. Marie C. E. Houghton ........ Madeira

Dr. A. T. Ishkanian .............. Mexico

Luther Parker .................... Philippine Islands
Joaquin Julia ..................... Spain

Mrs. Alice W. Manning ........... Turkey

Humane Press Bureau
Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke, Secretary
180 Longwood Ave., Boston

Field Workers of the Society

Mrs. Alice L. Park, Palo Alto, California
Mrs. Rachel C. Hogue, San Diego, California
Mrs. Jennie R. Nichols, Tacoma, Washington
James D. Burton, Harriman, Tennessee
Mrs. Katherine Weathersbee, Atlanta, Georgia
Rev. F. Rivers Barnwell, Fort Worth, Texas
MISS Blanche Finley, Richmond, Virginia
Rev. John W. Lemon, Ark, Virginia
MISS Lucia F. Gilbert, Boston, Massachusetts
Mrs. Jennie R. Toomim, Chicago, Ill.
Seymour Carroll, Columbia, S. C.
Rev. R. E. Grifﬁth, De Land, Florida

Field Representative

Wm. F. H. Wentzel, M.S., Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

Field Lecturer in Massachusetts
Ella A. Maryott

Societies’ Annuity Bonds

ANY men and women, lovers of ani-

mals, are getting both happiness and
material comfort from our two Societies’
Annuity Bonds. These bonds are absolutely
safe and yield a return according to one’s
age. They make their appeal ordinarily to
people over 40 years of age. Send the
coupon for a free folder which gives full
details. Fill in the coupon and mail it now.
The Massachusetts S. P. C. A. (or)
The American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Ave., Boston, Mass.

Without obligation to me, please send

me your folder which tells all about your
Annuity Bonds.

Name ..................................
Age ...................................
Address ................................

City ..................... State ........

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

“ Why Don’t You Adopt a
Child?”

HAT shall I say to this rather imper-

tinent question frequently put to me
by people who have little interest in animals
and seem surprised to learn that the wel-
fare of animals appeals so strongly to me?”
Thus writes a sincere and devoted lover of
animals. Well, many a time Mr. Angell,
who founded our two Societies, was asked
why he devoted his life so largely to ani-
mals and his answer was that for every
hundred people looking after men, women
and children he thought probably there was
not more than one interested in the suffer-
ings and ill-treatment of animals. And,
though he never had any children, he never
adopted one.

N ow while, probably, the majority of
people who are fond of animals and give
generously for their welfare are also deeply
interested in children, there are many, just
as ﬁne in character and generosity, to whom
children do not appeal. These men and
women, so constitute-d as they are, have as
much right to follow out the generous and
kindly impulses of their nature as their
friends and neighbors have theirs. It’s a
blessed thing that we do not all think alike,
or respond alike to all appeals. A sad world
it would be if every one of us was wholly
concerned with the same good cause. What
should it matter to me if my neighbor has
heard the call of some great need other than
the one whose cry has reached my ear? To
many a man and woman a faithful dog or
cat or horse has brought a comfort and
companionship never found in their human
kind.

A Tourist’s Guide Worth
Patronizing

Have you seen “Helen and Warren Guide-
let to Europe”? Well, Helen and Warren
are real lovers of animals. They would like
to take you to Spain. But no. They say
all horse lovers shrink from a country that
features bull-ﬁghts. If Spain would abolish
bull-ﬁghts, they say, she would have many
more visitors. Naples, the “Guidelet” says,
is growing more and more humane towards
animals. If you contemplate a trip abroad
why not send for a copy of the Guidelet,
1 Gramercy Park, N. Y.

Fez Fondouk, Morocco

Report for January, 1934 —- 31 Days

Daily average, large animals 42.7

Forage for same $ 92.00
Daily average, dogs 9.5

Forage for same 5.13
Large animals humanely put to sleep 24 3.82
Transportation 9.92
Wages, grooms, etc. 88.33
Inspector’s wages 27.61
Superintendent’s salary 152.67
Assistant’s salary 79.51
Veterinary’s salary 25.44
Sundries 15.61

 

_ $500.04
Entries: 20 horses, 10 mules, 28 donkeys.
Exits: 7 horses, 8 mules, 27 donkeys.
Monthly _Report of Supt.’s Assistant, and Inspector,

on_70 Native Fondouks. Visited the two markets for

animals, held twice weekly, the Mellah, the Ville

Nouvelleuwhere are the Police Headquarters, and the

Batha Division. Cases investigated, 8; visits, 758;

animals seen 6,709; animals treated 1,664; animals

transfered, 26.

SUPT.’S. NOTES: From Inspector’s words, of
Souks v1s1ted daily: animals seen, 1,618; animals
treated, 283; animals transferred, 4.

Average 1 per day from outside service transferred
to Fondouk.

Apr. 1934
A Triple Tragedy Averted

ETURNING to their beautiful garden

Villa in the heart of Tanger, from a
Sunday afternoon motor drive in the en-
virons of the historic city where Atlantic
and Mediterranean meet, Mr. H. A. Doo-
little, our American Consul, and his Wife,
Mrs. Doolittle, and their two daughters,
Catherine and Natalie, were startled to hear
a crying and yelping coming from the road-
side. Natalie, the younger of the girls,
who is 81/2 years old, spied three fat little
black shepherd puppies scrambling frantic-
ally to gain the slope above the road.

“Oh, papa! stop the car, please!” cried
the youngster. “One of those puppies looks
just like ‘Mickey Mouse’.”

Mrs. Doolittle and Catherine promptly
joined the junior member of the family and
Pere Doolittle with an indulgent “The
‘ayes’ have it,” slowed down. To his prac-
tised eye, the scene that greeted him spelt
a tragedy averted. The beautiful little
“perritas,” as they are called in Spanish,
had been abandoned in the road by the
peasants of the region, a people by no
means innately cruel, but bound by tradition
and superstition. The tiny dogs, being all
females, were regarded as valueless—in
some cases, would be held to be unlucky—
and had been left out in the coming cold
North African night to die.

But the thoughtless country folk had not
reckoned upon little Miss Doolittle, whose
native goodness and sweetness of disposi-
tion promptly came to the relief of the trio
of puppies. Hopping from the car and
followed quickly by her sister who is
twelve, she took charge of the situation
with the assurance of a veteran Red Cross
nurse.

“Oh, we must take them home!” was her
“dictum.” Mama and Papa looked at each
other in despair and Catherine, old enough
to be familiar with the ways and the “mon-
key shines” of puppy-dogs, looked at her
parents, but then added her voice to that of
“the baby.” Mr. and Mrs. Doolittle, think—
ing of lovely Oriental rugs and carpets and
tesselated curtains and hangings and also
a well-ordered ﬂower-garden at their villa,
still demurred. But two fresh young voices
and two young minds “made up their
minds” for them.

“Now see what I have let myself in for,”
growled Father Doolittle as he “stepped on
the gas” and his daughters snuggled the
three puppies into the car’s cushioned
depths. It developed later that what really
“worried” the consular ofﬁcial from Utica
was the possible reception the returning
family and their three tiny acquisitions 0f
dog-ﬂesh would have from “Chubby,” an
obese and no longer young terrier which
the Doolittle’s brought to Tanger last year
from earlier posts abroad.

Chubby, being “almost human,” tried
to ignore the little beasts as they eagerly
lapped up the warm goat’s milk fed to them.
And he visibly squirmed when the “boss”
stooped down to pat them. But with the
philosophy of the stout and the aged, he
contented himself with sighing: “Oh, well,
it’s all in a dog’s life,” as he drowsed be-
fore the crackling hearth ﬁre. And the
puppies stayed on.

Remember the American Humane Edu-
cation Society in your will.

. .. -w—r-JEJJ

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

FREE Write for

BOOKLET N0. 652
on the practical re-
moval of worms in
Dogs of all breeds
and ages.

 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 

For
DOGS

   

‘ TaETRACHLORETHYLENE c. 1'.

WORM CAPSULES

ﬁectz'oely remove

large dworms and Hookworms

The safe, easy-to-give worm treatment.
Dependable. For free booklet WRITE T0

PARKE, DAVIS & co.

Dex/e N -5 8—F , Animal I nduxtry Dept: , Detroit, M ich.
-— Drug Stores Sell Puke-Dams Products. -—

 

 

 

 

By
HUGH
/ , ‘ KING
, W l HARRIS

 

 

“UPON THE BASIS OF UNDERSTANDING
SHALL BE FOUNDED HUMANITY”
Pepper, an intelligent terrier, tells

his life from his ﬁrst recollection, on

through escapades, dangers, myster-
ies, and delights, in a way to hold
the attention of all ages.

For the dog, what “BLACK BEAUTY” has
been for the horse.

For sale wherever books are sold - $1.50

LOTHROP, LEE & SHEPARD CO.
126 Newbury St. Boston

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THIS SPACE
CONTRIBUTED

 

 

 

 

 

I For all the skin
. troubles of child-
gytlcura hood. Wise mothers
lntment should always keep

it on hand.

Price 25c. Sample free. Address:
"Cuticura,” Dept. 7 K, Malden, Mass.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Humane Literature and Band of Mercy Supplies

For Sale at 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass., at these prices, postpaid.
Titles in bold-face type are of books or booklets

The Great Cruelty, summary of Dr. Rowley’s address on humane slaughtering .................. Free

Our Dumb Animals, 1933, bound volume $1.00
Our Dumb Animals, January to Decem-
ber, 1929, 1931, and 1932, bound in

cloth, special, each ................... .75
Colored Posters, 17 x 28 inches, with

attractive pictures and verses, six in

the set ............................. .
Be Kind to Animals Blotters, 6143x33/8 ..$0.50 per 100

About the Horse

Black Beauty (English), cloth, 45 cents; paper, 20 cts.
The Shame of It—Mutilating the horse
by setting up his tail. Dr. Rowley’s
protest against this cruelty for fash-
ion’s sake. Four illus., 4 pp. ........ Free
What Constitutes Cruelty, Francis H.
Rowley ............................. $0.30 per 100
5.0 “ “

Humane Horse Book, 32 pp., 5 cts., or.. 0

The Horse—Treatment of Sores; etc. 60 “ “
Humane Education Leaﬂet, N0. 5. ...... .50 “ “
The Horse’s Prayer .................... .30 “ “
The Bell of Atri, Poem by Longfellow .. .50 “ “

About the Dog

Beautiful Joe, new, illus., $1.50 .......... small, 50 cts.
Distemper in Dogs, Dr. Schneider ...... Free
Rabies vs. Running Fits, Dr. Schneider . Free

Eulogy on the Dog, by Vest, post-card .. $1.00 per 100
The Dog-Its Care in Health and Disease .60 “ “
Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 3 and 4 .50 “ “
What the Chained Dog Says ........... .50 “ “
The Story of Barry ................... .~.30 “ “

About the Bird

The Birds of God, 318 pp., illus. ...... cloth, $0.45
The Trial of the Birds, play .......... $2.00 per 100
Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 1 and 2 50 “ “

How the Birds Help the Farmer ......
The Air-gun and the Birds ............

.50 ‘l 5‘
.50 H ‘6

About the Cat

The Cat—~Its Care in Health and Disease $0.60 per 100
Surplus Cats .......................... .50 “ “
The Cat in Literature ................ .50 “ “
Do Not Leave Your Cat to Starve ...... .50 “ “
“The Beggar Cat,” post-card, 6 cts. doz. .50 “ “

About Other Animals

Prince Rudolf’s Quest, Kenniston, 150

pp., special ........................ boards. 50 cts.
The Strike at Shane’s, cloth, 30 cts. ..paper, 7cts.
For Pity’s Sake ...................... paper, 5cts.
Michael Brother of Jerry, Jack London, cloth, 75 cts.
First Aid to Animals, Dr. Schneider, 8 pp. $1.00 per 100
What is the Jack London Club? ........ .30 “ “
Foreword from “Michael Brother of

Jerry” .............................. .30 “ “
Gripped in the Teeth of Steel, 2 pp. 1.00 “ “
How to Kill Animals Humanely, 4 pp .. 1.00 “ “
Leaﬂets, No. 6, Animals .............. .50 “ “
Leaﬂets, No. 7, Farm Animals ........ .50 “ “
Hints on the Care of Cows ............ .50 “ “
Rules for the Care of Poultry ......... .60 “ “
Ways of Kindness .................... .50 “ “

Humane Education

The Humane Bulletin, for use in schools,

96 pp. ................. 12 cents each ; ten for $1.00
Care and Kindness for Our Animal

Friends, 29 pp., paper covers, many

illus. ................. 15 cents each ; seven for $1.00
Kindness Picture Book, 32 pp., 15 cts. ; seven for $1.00
The Teacher’s Helper in Humane Edu-

cation, 32 pp. ...................... each, 10 cts.
Humane Education—for Parents and

Teachers, 20 pp. ................... each, 10 cts.
An Early Start to Kindness, Lucia F.

Gilbert, 48 pp. For ﬁrst and second

grades .............................. each, 10 cts.
Picture Lesson Cards, each 10 cts., set

of eight ............................ 35 cts.
“Be Kind to Animals” pennants ....... each, 25 cts.
“Be Kind to Animals” placards ........ each, 3 cts.
The Humane Idea, Dr. Francis H.

Rowley ................ cloth, 35 cts. ; paper, 15 cts.
Friends and Helpers (selections for

school use), Sarah J. Eddy .......... cloth, 96 cts.
Animals as Seen by the Poets, Guy

Richardson, 32 pp. .................. cloth, 35 cts.
Lessons on Kindness to Animals ...... $3.00 per 100

The B—K—T—A—Club, play, 3 cts. each; ten for 25c.
Fred Changes His Mind, play, 5 cts. each ; six for 25c.
“And a Little Child Shall Lead Them,”
play .................... 3 cts. each ; ten for 25 cts.
Friends of Fur and Feather, play,
3 cts. each ; ten for 25 cts.
Humane Exercises for use in Schools

(1934) ............................. $1.50 per 100
Humane Day in Schools, with class-room
project, 8 pp. ................... 2.00 “ “

Humane Education the Vital Need, Dr.
Rowley, short radio address, 3 cts. each; 1.50
Our Little Brothers and Sisters, sermon

for boys and girls, by Dr. Jefferson. .50 “ “
Humane Education, What to Teach and
How to Teach It . .............. .50 “ “

Outlines of Study in. Humane Education 1.50 “ “

Early Lessons in Kindness or Cruelty .. .50 “ “
A Talk with the Teacher .............. .50 “ “
Our Love for Animals, a short radio ad-

dress . . . ................ 5 cts. each; 2.50 “ “
Hints for Humane Sunday ............ .75 “ “
A Festival of Tender Mercies .......... .50 “ “
The Coming Education . . ........... .30 “ “
A Great Prophecy, Dr. Rowley ........ Free
American College Presidents and the

American Humane Education Society . . Free

Band of Mercy

“Be Kind to Animals” Buttons, three
styles—Band of Mercy, Humane So-
ciety, or S. P. . A.

Buttons—white star on blue ground with
gilt letters and border, one cent each 1.00 “ “

Badges, gold ﬁnish, large, 10 cts. ........ small, 5 cts.
“Band of Mercy” Pennant ........... 35 cts.

Songs of Happy Life, with music, S.

J. Eddy 50 cts.

Songs of Happy“ Life ‘ (56 ' page-s, Iwords.

only ............................... $3.00 per 100
Band of Mercy Membership Card ...... .50 :: ::
How to Form Bands of Mercy ........ .50

Does it Pay, Story of one Band of Mercy .30 “ “

Please enclose remittance with orders for less than $1

AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY, 180 Longwood Ave., Boston, Mass.

................ $1.00 per 100

 

 

24, 1934:

of the Negro schools?”

April 19, 1934: .

Do You Realize the Value of Superior Humane Films for use in

Theater, Church, Club or School?

The Bell of Atri

Mrs. Frank Sweeney of the Memphis Humane Society wrote, April

“The ﬁlm was shown in six local theaters and was well received.
Would it be possible to keep it longer as I Should. like to Show it 1n some

On Behalf of Animals

Lillian M. Fernald of the Prospect School, Gardner, Mass., wrote,

 

 

 

 

Since 1 832

J. S. WATERMAN & SONS, INC.

@Hnbertakers

BOSTON—BROOKLINIii—CAMBRIDGE
City and Out-of-Town Service

 

 

 

“The Parent Teacher Assomation and Prospect School are very grate-
ful for the use of this ﬁne ﬁlm. We Showed it in the afternoon to 400
pupils and in the evening to 300 adults. It proved most interesting and
appealing.”

Both ﬁlms available in 16 mm. and 35 mm. size. Writ-e for full
particulars to

Secretary, American Humane Education Society, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 106

 
  
    

 
 

7
g, ..
m .
PEACE ON EARTH, :n
KINDNESS, Jusnce ""
AND MERCY 'ro
EVERY LIVING
CREATURE.

  
     

Founded by Geo. T. Angell Incorporated 1889

For rates of membership in both of our Societies
see back cover. Checks should be made payable to
Treasurer.

Ofﬁcers of the American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds

JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board

CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President, United Shoe
Machinery Corporation

PHILIP STOCKTON, President, First National Bank of
Boston

Foreign Corresponding Representatives

George B. Duff ................... Australia

Luis Pareja Cornejo .............. Ecuador

Charles A. Williams .............. France

Leonard T. Hawksley ............ Italy

Mrs. Mary P. E. Nitobe ........... Japan

Mrs. Marie C. E. Houghton ........ Madeira

Dr. A. T. Ishkanian .............. Mexico

Luther Parker .................... Philippine Islands
Joaquin Julia ............ . ....... Spain

Mrs. Alice W. Manning ........... Turkey

Humane Press Bureau
Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke, Secretary
180 Longwood Ave., Boston

Field Workers of the Society

Mrs. Alice L. Park, Palo Alto, California
Mrs. Rachel C. Hogue, San Diego, California
Mrs. Jennie R. Nichols, Tacoma, Washington
James D. Burton, Harriman, Tennessee
Mrs. Katherine Weathersbee, Atlanta, Georgia
Rev. F. Rivers Barnwell, Fort Worth, Texas
Miss Blanche Finley, Richmond, Virginia
Rev. John W. Lemon, Ark, Virginia
MISS Lucia F. Gilbert, Boston, Massachusetts

rs. Jennie R. Toomim, Chicago, Ill.
Seymour Carroll, Columbia, S. C.
Rev. R. E. Grifﬁth, De Land, Florida

Field Representative

Wm. F. H. Wentzel, M.S., Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

Field Lecturer in Massachusetts
Ella A. Maryott

Safe Annuity Bonds

ANY men and women, lovers of ani-

mals, are getting both happiness and
material comfort from our two Societies’
Annuity Bonds. These bonds are absolutely
safe and yield a return according to one’s
age. They make their appeal ordinarily to
people over 40 years of age. Send the
coupon for a free folder which gives full
details. Fill in the coupon and mail it now.
The Massachusetts S. P. C. A. (or)
The American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Ave., Boston, Mass.

Without obligation to me, please send

me your folder which tells all about your
Annuity Bonds.

Name ..................................
Age

......
.............................

Address ................................

City ..................... State ........

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Mrs. Nichols Rc-clectcd
Chairman

T the National Congress of Parents and

Teachers, held at Des Moines, Iowa,
May 13—19 last, Mrs. Jennie R. Nichols of
Tacoma, ﬁeld representative of the Amerl-
can Humane Education Society, was re-
elected national chairman of humane educa-
tion for a term of three years. This came
about because of the outstanding work of
Mrs. Nichols in this ﬁeld, who not only
has played an important part in the councils
of the national assembly but also has per-
fected a very complete organization of her
department in all the states.

A special exhibit of humane literature,
including books and posters, was a feature
of the national convention. At the “panel
program” Mrs. Nichols presented a talk on
“Humane Education and the New Leisure,”
which was very enthusiastically received.

On her way to attend the Congress, Mrs.
Nichols visited the state convention at Poca-
tello, Idaho, where the American Humane
Education Society also had a conspicuous
exhibit. Here Mrs. Nichols gave an address
on Humane Education, and the next day
she was asked to broadcast for ﬁfteen min—
utes. When the resolutions were presented
by the delegates, this one was included:
“We heartily endorse the program of the
national chairman of humane education in
the schools and community.”

Fez Fondouk, Morocco

Report for April, 1934—30 Days
Exchange @ $15.15

Daily average large animals 27.1
Forage for same 33 68.94
Daily average dogs 6.4
Forage for same 1.66
Large animals humanely put to sleep 13 4.95
Transportation 8.19
Wages, grooms, etc. 88.94
Inspector’s wages , 27.72
Superintendent’s salary 158.42
Assistant’s salary 82.50
Veterinary’s salary 26.40
Motor allowance 16.50
Sundries 29.46
$513.68

Entries: 6 horses, 9 mules, 27 donkeys.

Exits: 3 horses, 9 mules, 20 donkeys.

Monthly Report of Supt.’s Assistant, and Inspector
on 70 Native Fondouks, the two markets for animals
held twice weekly, and distances walked throughout
the Souks and the Medina, the Mellah, the Ville
Nouvelle, where are the police headquarters, and
the Batha Division. Kilometers traveled, 312; ani-

mals seen, 7,532; animals treated, 2,363; animals
transferred, 20

SUPT.’S NOTES: Very few animals in town, the
weather being exceptionally wet and cold.

The name of Mr. Edward Tuck of Paris
and Monte Carlo should be added to the
list of the American Fondouk Committee
published by us last month.

A Humane Missionary

Recently Mrs. Alice L. Park of 'Palo Alto,
California, who conducts the Western Hu-
mane Press Bureau under the auspices of
the American Humane Education Society,
took a cruise around the world, distributing
humane literature in many ports but especi—
ally in Japan and Hawaii. She also had
interviews with several editors, librarians
and other acquaintances of former trips,
all in the interests of humane education.
Bound volumes of Our Dumb Animals and
of other books about animals were placed
in circulation on the steamer, where they
were read both by passengers and crew.

July, 1934

Boys and Guns

LIONEL LEE

OT infrequently certain kinds of maga-

zines carry articles encouraging boys
to start in early to master ﬁrearms and be-
come great hunters. Often these articles are
written by parents or fathers who try to
show that hunting and killing the creatures
of forest and ﬁeld is making ﬁne, manly citi-
zens of their sons.

One such writer says that a lad cannot
begin too early to familiarize himself with a
gun. Of course, if the child is too young,
have the weapon unloaded, so there will be
no danger.

How absurd, when you reﬂect on it! Un-
loaded, a gun is not different from any other
toy; yet this misguided father, who would
probably condemn most other toys, deems
it vitally important that a young boy should
master all the rudiments of gun manipu-
lation.

The glory of the chase; the glamor of the
gun and its awesome power; the study of
killing shots, power of different loads, and
vulnerable places in animals—all such is
pictured to the boy as the big thing in
life, at least in recreational life.

Naturally, kindness, reﬁnement, senti—
ment, etc., so foreign to the elements of a
hunter’s education, fall into the classiﬁca-
tion of undesirable and effeminate qualities.
He can’t go north and south at the same
time.

Doubtless many people have supposed that
this attitude of fathers died out years ago.
Generally, perhaps it did, but in some sec-
tions of the country, and with some types of
men, it yet exists and does much harm.
There are far too many men, even today,
who regard education, culture and humani-
tarianism as “sissy stuff.”

Mr. Smith (the name is ﬁctitious, but the
man real and the story true) was such a
man. Living on a farm in a wooded coun—
try, he trained both his sons to use ﬁrearms
and be “he-men” in every respect.

In his own words, “They got too good
with shotguns and riﬂes, then took up auto-
matic pistols.” At sixteen and fourteen
respectively they were notorious throughout
the section; feared much as the James boys
and the Dalton gang were when just start—
ing on their crime careers.

Both the Smith boys were rather below
the average in size and strength, and this
made them even more dependent upon their
weapons. Extremely cruel from the steady
practice of hunting (in season and out),
human life meant but little to them; accord-
ing to their own father, it was only good
luck that for a number of years kept them
out of jail.

But in their early twenties they gave up
country life and, taking their favorite auto-
matics, migrated to “bigger time,” to a city
where they could herd with their own kind.

Brieﬂy, the young one was killed in a
Chicago police raid, while the older one is
in the penitentiary, serving a life sentence
for murder. The father, a sad and broken
old man now, says that “guns did it”—the
desire to kill something with that beautiful
and effective thing with which the boys had
become so efﬁcient.

“If I were younger again,” mourned Mr.
Smith, “and had a dozen boys, not one would
ever be permitted by me to touch a ﬁrearm.”

Is there a child and a gun in your home?

 

 




 

1766.193]; OUR DUMB ANIMALS Page 21

3
ing of setting up tails: “This not only de- ° 9 ' l ;
tracts from the attractiveness of the horse, SOUth Afrlca S Natlonal Park 1 l
but it is a decidedly cruel and indefensible l

l

E

l

. ,, The Largest Animal Sanctuary in the World 1
operatlon. .

What does the Executive Committee of R o B E R T s o N c R A Y i ,
the Association of American Horse Shows, . ‘
Inc., think of the practice? YEAR or two ago I had the good for-

July 5, 1932 - tune to be in Johannesburg during the ‘ l

At a recent meeting of the Executive ﬁrst “Animal Week” organized in that ‘

Committee of the Association of Ameri- CitY- Judged by American standards, the
can Horse Shows, Inc., the following reso- experiment was a modest success. A store
lution was proposed: was taken in one of the main thorough—

“RESOLVED: That the Executive Com- fares, and posters and slogans drew a regu-
mittee of the Association of American lar stream of visitors every day. Inside the
Horse. Shows, Inc., is opposed to the fur- store a small exhibition had been arranged:
therance of the custom of setting up the charts, diagrams, pictures, models, etc., ex-
tails of saddle horses owing to its cruelty pressly designed t0 illustrate some local
and recommends that the Board of Direc- need, and simple enough to appeal to chil-
tors enact suitable rules at an early date dren. Perhaps the most interesting item

 

 

to take effect in 1933 in regard thereto.” was a humane device for slaughtering cattle,
That a copy of this resolution be fun recently invented in Pretoria. On the whole, DEBEE T
nished each Director and the Secretary of however, the real value of the Week lay not BLACK WIL S
each Member Horse Show, and as many so much in concrete achievement as in the , 1 P k
leading saddle horse exhibitors and dealers evidence it afforded of widespread interest— The Kruger. N ationla a: coffers somle
as possible. an interest that has been vigorously fos- 8’000 square mlles 1n t e eas ern ransvaa ’

Would you be good enough to give your tered throughout South Africa since the and is therelfor: about “flee 113311118 size 0;
attention to this resolution and any sug— Kruger National Park was opened to the Yellowstone ar 01" roug y, e area 0 i

 

gestion you may have as to the wording public in 1928. . the f0u1' largest. parks 1n th1s country. 1A
of the proposed rule. The story of this vast reserve is a neg— few ye-arsago It was almost 1naccess1bbe.
Yours very truly, lected chapter of South African history: Today a v1s1tor can leave Johannesbgrg y
J. MACY WILLETTS, Secretary the struggle of a few determined men to even1ng tram and by next mornlng e can

1 - - . be gazing on a part of Africa as primitive
. Assoc1atlon of Amerlcan Horse Shows, Inc. preserve a great natural sanctuary where as it was before the white man set foot in

wild life might roam at large in absolute the continent
freedom. For more‘than twenty years their ' ,
The humane forces 01: Massachu- plans were threatened with disaster. .Some Even the most seasoned tourlst ﬁnds a l

I
., setts WI" seek through the Legisla- who opposed the-m declared that the lions thrill in sitting comfortably in an automo— ‘ t
j ture now 1n sessm-n, a law forbld- were a menace to the country. Others re- bile and watching herds of wild anlmals C l
dlng the showing of horses with garded the scheme as a poor investment. grazing peacefully by the roadside It 1,8 ‘ l
t docked or set-up tails in all Horse Others, again, were in favor of exploiting impossible here to give any idea 0f the denl- ,‘ E
Shows in the Commonwealth. If the reserve as a public hunting ground. It zens Of .this backveld arcady, Wllloh are '
such horses cannot be shown, these was not until 1926 that the reserve was pro- sald to include 500 fully grown 110115 and f '
cruel mutilations will be practically claimed a national park by Act of Parlia- nearly 1,000 buffaloes. Antelopes allone are 4
abandoned. ment and put under the management of a belleved to number 120,000- 0t t ese , e
national board of trustees. A decisive inﬂu- wﬂdebeests are the commonest. All bird llfe ‘
H T S h once were the railroad authorities who had ﬁnlils sarthtuarylin :29 Dim: the 2111:3129 :1?
instituted a series of s ecial tours in the W9 as . e eag e, e- S or : egre ’
umane raps 011g t area. Pioneer trains sogn became popular, kinds of water fowL' The rarlty of human 1 I
Pennsylvania Indians would not use a and sightse-ers returned with a new-found habitation secures immunlty durlng the ‘
steel trap, and released every animal they enthusiasm for wild life. As one South breeding season. Nature 1s left to Strlke
found in one. As Jesse Logan, the last chief African statesman has put it: “The belief her own balance. Lions are the only game ‘ H
of the Senecas at the Warren County, Pa., that there is ‘sport’ in the killing of our big hunted by the rangers. “Don’t fire at any
Reservation, told the writer in 1915, “The game is giving way to the? knowledge, so animal in the park; although 1t may be
white man says he is Christian, yet he quickly brought home to everyone visiting considered vermin outside, there Is no ver-
taught us how to lift scalps; the white man the park, that to shoot a wildebeest or roan min within its boundarles.”

says he is civilized, yet he tortures poor or kudu conﬁdingly staring at its slayer is Since the park was opened to the public
wild animals in steel-jawed traps.” about as ‘sporting’ as to shoot a tame ox in about 500 miles of automobile roads have
H. D. SHOEMAKER, in Altoonw Tribune one’s back-yard.” been built and pontoons provided for the

 

 

   

ONE OF THE ENTRANCES TO THE PARK HERD OF PALLAH (LARGE ANTELOPE) i
Five main entrance gates have roads leading to them (See also illustration on front cover) It

 




 

 

 

 

u u S,Trade Mark, Registered l

 

ANGELL m 1868.AND FOR FORTy.ONE
1.

The Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

The American Humane Education Society

The American Band of Mercy

I would not enter on my list of friends,
Though graced with polished manners and ﬁne sense,
Yet wanting sensibility, the man
Who needlessly sets foot upon a worm.
—COWPER

  

GLORY TO
GOD,
PEACE on EARTH,
Kmoness, Jusnce
, AND Mancv 'r'o~
EVERY LIVING
CREATURE.

 
  
  

    
    
 
    

/
Published monthly by the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood, Massachusetts

Entered as second-class matter
Acceptance for mailing at special rat

, June 29, 1917, at the Post Ofﬁce at Norwood, rMass., under the Act of March 3, 1879
e of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 3, 1917, authorized, July 13, 1919

Boston Ofﬁce, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

 

VQﬂ.67l

The Oakland, California, CityCouncil has
banned guns for minors and all sling-shots
are outlawed within its precincts. We im—
agine the Latham Foundation should have
credit for this.

A Bill is before the British Parliament to
prohibit the trade in all British wild birds.
If this bill becomes a law, no more British
wild birds can lawfully be caught and ex-
posed for sale. This would include all birds,
no matter whence they come, so long as
they are residents or visiting in Great
Britain in a wild state.

A cat named “Shade” received, recently,
a medal awarded by the Latham Founda-
tion for a remarkable act. Its mistress,
alone in her house, was attacked by a tramp,
when Shade, with the fury of a tiger, leaped
upon the intruder, fastened himself about
his neck and the tramp, frightened, ﬂed
from the house but only after a desperate
struggle to free himself from the grip of
the cat.

A friend from Hollywood, California,
writes us a bit of news which we think will
also be news to many of our readers:

It is not often that musicians deign to
introduce an animal theme into their pro-
grams. However, recently I heard Walter
Damrosch and his orchestra give Franz
Liszt’s symphonic poem, “St. Francis’ Ser-
mon to the Birds” over the radio. Before
that I did not know such a composition
existed.

The late King Feisal of Irak visited Paris
at the time of the miscalled peace confer-
ence in 1919. After looking over the great
assemblage there of statesmen who were
leading the world, he sagely likened a people
to a camel train in the desert, each camel
plodding along with its nose tied to the tail
of the camel in front of it.

“When you have overtaken 50 or 60
camels,” said Feisal, “you come to the head
of the train, and you ﬁnd that the leader
is a clever little donkey.”

——Boston Globe

h4arch,l934
A Last Plea for Waterfowl

NDER this title, Irving Brant, treas-

urer of the Emergency Conservation
Committee, makes the startling statement
that “overshooting and baiting, aided by
drought, have brought the waterfowl to the
verge of extermination.” In many sections
the drying up of breeding places has caused
the death of vast numbers. Overshooting
and drought have been the chief causes of
the vanishing flocks. Deaf to the warning of
the U. S. Biological Survey, the hunters
have kept right on killing wherever there
was a waterfowl to be found. Furthermore,
the baiting of places to which this bird may
be attracted for food has played a sad part
in their destruction. Ducks, says Mr. Brant,
cannot survive baiting. Tons .of corn or
other grains are dumped into shallow water
or along waterfronts within easy reach of
blinds where hunters hide. “That hoary
truth,” says Mr. Brant, “ ‘Game’s best
friend is the hunter’ was never more con-
spicuously disproved than by the unwilling-
ness of the organized sportsmen of America
to face the logic of their own 1933 statistics
on waterfowl disappearance.” Meanwhile
the gun and ammunition companies which
support the American Game Association re-
fuse to admit the overshooting. The real
sportsman is one thing. He may claim the
respect of many who long since ceased to
want to kill anything. The “game hog” is
worthy only of contempt.

An Appreciation

Mr. E. F. Strickland, of Benton Harbor,
Michigan, “student, philosopher and trav-
eler,” writes, in an exceedingly interesting
article, to The News Palladium of that city
upon the general theme of kindness to ani-
mals, and dogs in particular, his own
dog “Laddie” being his constant companion:

I was honored with the acquaintance of
that noble man who for more than 40 years
championed not only the cause of kindness
to our dumb animal creation, but who with
trenchant pen dared to bespeak and befriend
their rights—Angell by name and nature.
It is with reverence I think of and refer to

P¢0.3

George T. Angell, founder and for nearly
half a century editor of the beautiful little
journal, Our Dumb Animals, published in
Boston by the Massachusetts Society for the
prevention of Cruelty to Animals, which
publication, let me say in passing, should be
in every school and library in the land for
a half hour’s reading every day; it would
not only delight but instruct and truly edu-
cate every boy and girl in the school.

What a Business!

We cannot vouch for the ﬁgures that fol-
low but they seem to come from a trust-
worthy source. Large slaughter-houses in
this country number 1,600, besides innumer-
able small local killing places. Four-footed
animals killed for food number 120 millions,
not including those butchered on farms and
in small local butcheries. The average
amount of meat eaten in the United States
was 145 pounds in 1921, a decrease of about
20 pounds per person since 1900. Europe’s
average consumption is around 70 pounds
per person, Great Britain’s average the
highest, Italy’s the lowest; Japan’s con-
sumption is 1.5 pounds per person for a
year and 25 pounds of ﬁsh. In large sec-
tions of the world practically no meat is
eaten because of religious scruples.

The Caged Bird

Captain Roltigan, the English adviser
on the treatment of foreign birds, says
that of all the common parrots imported,
at least from 70 per cent to 80 per cent die
within a few weeks of arrival. The problem
of the caged bird caught and brought from
a foreign land or conﬁned in a cage, no
matter whence it came, is a serious one for
all lovers of birds. Many of us do know
that sometimes at least a canary in the
home, loved almost as a member of the fam-
ily and cared for with great affection, given
much liberty, seems happy and contented.
Still, the most of its hours are spent behind
the bars of its cage. But shall we open the
cage and let him free in the great outdoors?
Alas, that would mean, in all probability,
death swift and sure.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

M ar. 1931;

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Page 37

Be Kind to Animals Week, April 16—21
Humane Sunday, April 15, 1934

Prizes for Best Cartoons

HE American Humane Education So-

ciety will give $50 cash as a ﬁrst prize,
and $25 cash as a second prize, to the artist
whose cartoons illustrating kindness to ani-
mals, published in any periodical between
now and May 15, 1934, are judged the best
of all submitted.

It is urged that so far as possible the
cartoons be published during Be Kind to
Animals Week, April 16—21, and Humane
Sunday, April 15.

Copies of the newspaper or magazine con-
taining the cartoon, showing date of publi-
cation, with the name and address of the
cartoonist plainly written on the margin,
should be addressed to American Humane
Education Society, 180 Longwood Avenue,
Boston, Mass., to reach the office not later
than June 1, 1934.

The result of the contest will be published
in Our Dumb Animals for July, 1934, and
payment will be made to the winning car-
toonists not later than June 10.

It is hoped that our friends everywhere
will communicate with their local news-
paper managers, or any cartoonists they
happen to know, and urge participation in
this contest.

 

New Humane Day Exercises

N entirely new pamphlet of suggestive

exercises and helps for the observance
of Humane Day in schools, will be offered
free by the Massachusetts S. P. C. A. to all
teachers in public schools of the state for
use in elementary grades. In Boston Hu-
mane Day will be observed Friday, April
13, because of vacation during Be Kind to
Animals Week. It is suggested that the
following Friday, April 20, be observed
wherever convenient.

To teachers, humane societies, and others
outside of Massachusetts who may wish to
make use of this pamphlet of eight pages,
copies are priced at two cents each in any
quantity. Samples free upon application to
the Secretary, 180 Longwood Avenue,
Boston.

Hints for Humane Sunday

A new leaﬂet with the above title has just
been issued by the American Humane Edu-
cation Society, with suggestions to ministers
and others who may be interested in ob-
serving Humane Sunday, April 15. It con-
tains appropriate quotations from a number
of distinguished clergymen and laymen of
various faiths. This may be used with “A
Festival of Tender Mercies” (a vesper ser-
vice). Each leaﬂet consists of two pages
of text, with no printing on the reverse
side so the passages may be clipped and
distributed. The price of the “Festival” is
50 cents per hundred copies, and of the
“Hints” 75 cents per hundred COpies.

Samples free. Address, Secretary, 180

Longwood Avenue, Boston.

 

AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

 

 

 

Twentieth Annual “Week”

HE coming Be Kind to Animals Week

will be the twentieth to be observed,
as it was ﬁrst inaugurated in the spring of
1915. This is a distinctively American in-
stitution. The idea of having an entire
secular week set aside and ofﬁcially pro-
claimed as a time for giving thought to our
duties toward the sub-human races origi-
nated in the mind of the late Henry F.
Lewith of Charleston, S. C. This sugges-
tion, with a plan for an annual Humane
Sunday, won the approval of the American
Humane Association, and local organizations
everywhere were quick to adopt the motto,
Be Kind to Animals.

Many celebrations of the week, in great
variety, have been carried out. Governors
of several states, mayors of many cities
have oﬂ‘icially proclaimed Be Kind to Ani-
mals Week and Humane Sunday. Every
Governor of Massachusetts, beginning with
Governor McCall in 1918 and including the
late President Coolidge, has issued such a
Proclamation. A leading feature has been
the campaign of press publicity. Prominent
editorials and news stories of kindness to
animals have appeared in some of our great-
est journals, while many country news—
papers have devoted liberal space to the
objects of the Week. But, doubtless, the most
far-reaching effects of the Be Kind to Ani-
mals agitation have come from the school-
room, where vigorous efforts are made by
nearly all the leading humane societies of
the country to reach the pupils with talks
and the exhibition of pictures. Many com-
munities have annual poster contests such
as that being conducted now by the Massa-
chusetts S. P. C. A.

New Poster for 1934

HIS is a reproduction of the

new poster, in colors, 17 x
22 "inches, designed by Morgan
Dennis especially for the Na-
tional Be Kind to Animals
Week. These should be use-d
freely by humane societies and
individuals, as schools, churches,
and other institutions will be
glad to have them on display.
Note that there are no dates on
the poster—it is good for every
day in the year. Copies bear-
ing the imprint of the American
Humane Education Society, 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston, are
for sale at these prices, post-
paid: Single 10 cts., three for
25 cts., eight for 50 cts., twenty
for $1, seventy for $3, 125 for
$5, and may be ordered from the
Society. Orders for larger quan-
tities, however, and all orders
requiring s p e c i a l imprints,
should be sent to the American
Humane Association, 80 Howard
Street, Albany, N. Y.

 

For First and Second Grades

HIS year the American Humane Edu-

cation Society is offering a booklet of
48 pages which has been prepared especially
with a view to the needs of teachers in ﬁrst
and second grades. It is compiled by Miss
Lucia Fessenden Gilbert, who has had long
experience both as a teacher and as a school
lecturer in the humane cause. “An Early
Start to Kindness,” with numerous illustra-
tions of animals and birds, will ﬁll a real
demand for lessons on kindness to animals
so simply phrased that even the youngest
pupil can grasp the meaning.

This is what the Superintendent of
Schools of Atlanta, Ga., in a letter addressed
to our ﬁeld worker in that state, writes:

January 11, 1934
My dear Mrs. Weathersbee:

I have carefully examined the copy of
“An Early Start to Kindness” which you
left in my ofﬁce several days ago. If you
have sufficient copies, I should be glad to
secure one for each of our ﬁrst and second
grade teachers.

I appreciate very much the good work
you are doing for Humane Educatlon.

Cordially yours,
(Signed) WILLIS A. SUTTON
Superintendent of Schools

Single copies of the above-named pam-
phlet are offered at 10 cents, postpald any-
where. Slight discount on large orders.
Address, Secretary, 180 Longwood Avenue,
Boston. .

Any broad-minded person knows that
being kind to animals contributes to the
general betterment of the community.

 

 

 




 

J ulg, 1931;

Mrs. Toomim Appreciated

EFORE 300 pupils and 200 parents of

the Knickerbocker School, Chicago,
Mrs. Jennie R. Toomim of the American
Humane Education Society recently gave an
address. This is what the principal of the
school writes to President Rowley about
Mrs. Toomim’s visitz— -

Knickerbocker School has received much
pleasure and great inspiration through the
visit today of Mrs. Toomim, who presented
the prizes and the beautiful poster with the
names of those receiving honorable men-
tion thereon.

You are fortunate to have one whose in-
tense interest in kindness to- animals is
shown so clearly by her vital manner of
speaking, and her power to hold the atten-
tion of her audience.

Trusting to have Mrs. Toomim with us
again, I am, »

NELLE‘ S. KELLY,
Knickerbocker School

Juniors Active in Ottawa

Under the auspices of the Ottawa Hu-
mane Society a Junior Branch has been
organized, which now numbers 1,500 mem-
bers. Since February Mrs. J. P. van Veen
of the Society has been broadcasting a
children’s program for ﬁfteen minutes
every Monday. These programs consist of
short stories about animals, sometimes put
in rhyme, and always include a reminder
of the Junior motto, “Be kind to animals.”
We congratulate our Canadian friends
upon this unique activity.

A Tribute and a Prayer

LITTLE dog was brought to our Hos-
pital one night some years ago in
desperate need of immediate help. All went
well. She returned to her home and came
back to us only when some special advice
seemed necessary. At last, having served
her day and generation, bringing gladness
and companionship to those who knew her
best and awaking an abiding affection by
her loyalty and devotion, she died.
From her mistress there has come to us
the following tribute, and from a friend of
both a prayer written before death came:

“Gamine”
1927 — l 934

Here in this quiet corner of the garden
Lies one who during her short span of life
Brought to us all so much of joy and love
That we, remembering her happy spirit
And feeling its inﬂuence about us still,
Take comfort to go on.

ALICE THORP
April, 1934

A Prayer for “Gamine”

Oh God, so great that Thou heedest the
falling of a sparrow, look down upon this
little dog, the servant of Thy servants. Re-
store her to health, but, if that may not be,
let her passing be painless and let her faith-
ful soul join those friends who have gone

before.
SUSAN CABOT

Mar. 22, 1934

OUR

DUMB ANIMALS

Page 107

“Humanity Dick” Martin
1754—1834

 

BALLYNAHINCH CASTLE, IRELAND, HOME OF RICHARD MARTIN

HE name of Richard Martin stands

foremost in the history of legislation

respecting the protection of animals.
As the member of the British House of
Commons for Galway, he, it was, as many
are now familiar, who introduced in parlia-
ment in 1822 the ﬁrst bill for the prevention
of cruelty to animals. How eloquently and
with what dogged determination he stood
before overwhelming opposition and advo—
cated the passage of his bill is perhaps
fairly well-known! How his eloquent words
were greeted with jeers, cat-calls and cock-
crowings, has often been referred to, and
how also, unmoved in defeat at ﬁrst, he
pursued his humane object until his act was
passed, and at a time when there was no
statutory protection to animals in any state
or nation of the earth! Richard Martin lives
in history; his revilers are long since si-
lence-d and unknown. “Martin’s Act” identi—
ﬁes its author with that ﬁrst great law of
progress which secures endless blessings to
man and beast alike. Many stories are rife
of this indomitable pioneer in a great cause,
who brought to bear all his tact, talents,
eloquence, wit and deﬁance before gaining
his goal. On this, the one hundredth anni-
versary of his passing, there has come to us
some interesting sketches from a reliable
correspondent in Galway who has obtained
this information from a very old resident
of Connemara. We present them to our read-
ers practically as written:

Richard Martin was born in Dublin,
1754. He was educated at Harrow and Cam-
bridge and represented Galway in Parlia-
ment during many years.

“When he became a member of parlia-
ment he removed to Ballynahinch, where he
erected the present castle. His estate ran
from Galway to Clifden, a distance of 40
miles. He widened the main road, leaving
great tracts of land on each side for animals
to graze upon. He erected a large shelter
near Galway at Dangan, another at Recess.
These were used by people drawing food
stuff from Galway City to Clifden and other
small towns. They used to put up their
horses, feed and water them at Mr. Mar-
tin’s expense, then proceed further in the
mornings. This forty-mile road was called
the Martin Avenue, as they had to pass by
his castle at Ballynahinch. He used to say,
as a joke in the British House of Commons,
that he had the longest avenue in Europe.

“When Richard Martin introduced his Act
he was laughed at, and one member insisted
that the Bill be rejected at once and asked
Martin if he knew what cruelty was. Mar-
tin said he did and to come outside the
barrier and he would let him know. When
he did, Martin gave him right and left and
ﬂoored him. ‘That is a little of it,’ said
Martin. ‘I saw a man doing that to a little
donkey the other day. Would you like a
little more?’ ‘No,’ said his colleague. ‘I
have had more than enough. I will support
your Act.’ ‘Thank you,’ said Mr. Martin,
‘but the poor donkey was not able to say
that he had had enough or too much, there-
fore, he wants protection.’ Several mem-
bers exclaimed that Mr. Martin was right
and eventually he got his Act on the statute
book. The old man told me that Martin used
to tell this story to people he used to see
cruel to animals in Connemara. Mr. Martin
was a very large employer in Connemara,
very good to the poor and very severe on
those he would see cruel to animals. It was
instant dismissal and a ﬁne if his employees
acted cruelly.

“About Ballynahinch I must say that it
is nearly indescribable with its beautiful
scenery amongst the hills all wooded with
different trees and roads leading every-
where.”

Our correspondent informs us that the
estate is now owned and occupied by a Dub-
lin gentleman “who is a great lover of
animals.”

“An Early Start to Kindness”

My dear Dr. Rowley:

Our best and most experienced ﬁrst-grade
teacher at home, one who has made a shin-
ing success with little children, writes as
follows about “An Early Start to Kindness.”

“It is the concensus of opinion here that
the little book is to be used as source ma-
terial for the teachers in ﬁrst and second
grades, and also to read to the children.
In third and fourth it is admirable as ma-
terial for the children to read themselves,
and in ﬁfth for children to read as work
for reproduction or to help in compositions.
In fact, it is my own opinion that it could
be read up through all the grades with much
pleasure and proﬁt.”
' LUCIA F. GILBERT

 




 

W

 

 

 

 

“ U.S,Trade Mark,Registered \ n 1
T. ANGIE-LL IN 1868.AND FOR FORW‘ONE
E0 YE 1! 8 ED,
8?

The Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

The American Humane Education Society

The American Band of Mercy

I would not enter on my list of friends,
Though graced with polished manners and ﬁne sense,
Yet wanting sensibility, the man
Who needlessly sets foot upon a worm.
—COWPER

    
 

GLORY 'ro
GOD,
PEACE on EARTH,
Kmonass, JUSTICE
AND MERCY 'r‘o-
EVERY lema
CREATURE.

    
   
     
 

Published monthly by the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood, Massachusetts

Entered as second-class matter

Acceptance for mailing at special rat

, June 29, 1917, at the Post Ofﬁce at Norwood, Mass., under the Act of March 3, 1879
e of postage prov1ded for in section 1103, Act of October 3, 1917, authorized, July 13, 1919

Boston Ofﬁce, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

Vol. 67

We hope the article on the next page
will be carefully read by all into whose
hands this issue falls.

We have never published an issue of
Our Dumb Animals when so many reports
of societies, letters, newspaper clippings and
other contributions to its columns had to be
left unnoticed for lack of space. We deeply
regret this.

According to the Governor of Connecti—
cut that state contemplates establishing
game areas where game can be bred and
set free for the beneﬁt of hunters. He even
suggests that one of these areas be reserved
for women hunters and provided with a
woman warden to teach women how to shoot
the game. Let us hope Connecticut will set
no such example to the other states. What
with the plumes and feathers of the past,
and the furs with which she has from time
immemorial decorated herself, woman has
been responsible for the killing of quite
enough animals.

Good news from England. A friend,
closely associated with the Royal S. P. C. A.
of England, writes us that by an action of
Parliament 3. law has been secured pro-
hibiting such exhibitions as those known as
rodeos. We rejoice with our friends across
the sea. It is a great victory. Again Eng-
land leads the way.

Here is the law:

“No person shall promote, produce, ex-
hibit, or take part in, any public contest,
public performance, or public exhibition
which consists of—

(a) throwing, casting, roping, or catching,
with ropes or other appliances, any
animal; or

(5) wrestling, ﬁghting, or struggling with
any animal; or

(c) riding or attempting to ride any un-
tamable or uncontrollable animal

under a penalty on conviction of a ﬁne not
exceeding one hundred pounds, or alterna-
tively, or in addition thereto, to imprison-
ment with or without hard labor for any
term not exceeding three months.”

June, 1934

No. 6

Again the Traffic in New-Born Calves

HIS wretched business should make

every humane society in the land hang

its head in shame—at least if it is not
doing everything in its power to stop it.
According to the U. S. Department of Agri-
culture, at present, there are being killed
in this country annually approximately 10,—
000,000 calves. The ﬁgures for 1933 are
4,906,632 under Federal inspection, and the
Department estimates the number killed on
farms and other places without Federal in-
spection about as many more—a total of
9,813,264. To be sure not all of these are
calves taken away from their dams within
an hour or a day or two or possibly a little
longer after birth. Several of these mil-
lions, however, are gathered up by small
dealers, collected at some convenient rail-
road station, and then unfed, half starved,
packed into freight cars and shipped, by
the hundreds of thousands, long distances
without food, water or rest. These ship-
ments may last for 36 hours according to
Federal law.

How many of these poor creatures die of
starvation will never be known, how many
are humanely put to sleep by the humane
ofﬁcers of the various societies, we cannot
tell. We can only give the experience of
our Society here in Massachusetts. We
can say this by way of encouragement, that
conditions are vastly improved over those
that prevailed twenty years ago when we
began our crusade against this great evil.
In 1912 and 1913 carloads of calves were
coming to the Brighton Stockyards with
from two, three and up to 22 dead in many,
many cases out of a total of 70 to 80 in the
car. The chief factor in improved conditions,
bad as they still are, has been the more
rapid movement by the railroads of the cars
by faster freight, and by the constant in-
sistence of our ofﬁcers, particularly in the
past, of better bedding conditions and more
attempts to feed the calves than existed
during the ﬁrst years of our crusade. At
that time we found in cars where there
were from 70 to 80 calves, a death rate of
something like 11/2 per cent. That would
mean about 15 calves out of every 1,000 were
dead or had to be humanely put to sleep.

Take, now, the past six years. There have
been received and inspected by our ofﬁcers
at Somerville and Brighton, where livestock
is received for the Boston district, 2,752,617
calVes; dead in cars, 7,081; humanely put
to sleep because injured or unable to leave
car, 2,882. The percentage of dead and
those that had to be destroyed to the whole
number is .36 of 1 per cent or about 3 6/10
calves per thousand. It will be seen that
there has been a very material reduction
from 11/2 per cent of 22 years ago to .36
of 1 per cent today. In other words, there
are lost at present, according to the records
of our Society covering greater Boston,
through death, and the necessity of their
being destroyed, 3 6/ 10 calves out of every
thousand as against 15 calves out of every
thousand 22 years ago.

Why can’t the whole wretched business be
stopped? Because of the conﬂict between
state laws and Federal laws. If we can
ﬁnd a man or a corporation shipping any
animal within the state in any way causing
unnecessary suffering we can stop the train,
cart or truck, make an arrest and take the
offender into court. But any freight passing
from one state into another is under Fed-
eral law and all the Federal law recognizes
as an offense is keeping live freight more
than 36 hours without water, food or rest.
In spite of this, our ofﬁcers do hold up
trains on their way through the state, de-
stroy calves half dead or injured, often
securing the unloading of all the animals
and insisting on better bedding and extra
cars where the conditions have been too
crowded. We can only beg our readers to
believe that we are doing the best we can
to lessen the suﬁering of these unfortunate
victims of a heartless trafﬁc. Nothing but
such a Federal law as the humane societies
of the United States almost secured years
ago will make it possible to stop the greater
part of this evil. Had we won the law we
sought at Washington, no calf could be
shipped from one state into another under
four weeks of age unless accompanied by
its dam. It is time the humane societies of
the country combined again to see if such
Federal legislation may not be secured.

 




 

 

. 4.44.

 

Page 20

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Feb. 1931;

THE SHAME OF IT!

Heedless of Cruelty for Fashion’s Sake

Mutilating the Horse by Setting Up His Tail—Unnatural— Cruel

DONE UNDER COVER OF SECRECY TO AVOID PROSECUTION
By FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President, Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

 

LOOK HERE ON THIS PICTURE—

brings with it to all real lovers of
the horse the distressing sight of
the mutilated horse—MUTILATED BY
SETTING UP HIS TAIL IN ABOUT AS
UNNATURAL A POSITION AS MAN’S
FOOLISH BRAIN COULD DEVISE.
After the surgical operation, which con-
sists in cutting the strongﬂexor muscles
on each side of the tail at its base near to
the body, the tail is then bent up nearly at
a right angle, tightly bandaged and held by
mechanical devices in this position until the
wounds heal.

THESE WOUNDS SOMETIMES SUP-
PURATE AND THE HEALING PROCESS
TAKES WEEKS.

Frequently the tail fails to set up per-
fectly straight. It may be more or less
one-sided. Then one or more operations
may be necessary.

When once the wounds are healed, the

THE Horse Show season annually

tail must be kept up for hours by the same
mechanical arrangement before exhibition
in the show-ring or before the horse is
ridden in public. HOW MANY HOURS OR
DAYS THE TAIL MUST BE KEPT IN
THIS UNNATURAL POSITION ONLY
THOSE KNOW WHO SUBJECT THE
HORSE TO THIS TREATMENT.

IF ONLY THE GENERAL PUBLIC
KNEW THE CRUELTY AND SUFFER-
ING BACK OF THIS PRACTICE, WE
DARE BELIEVE THEY WOULD DE-
MAND IT BE STOPPED.

LET EVERY LOVER OF THE HORSE
PROTEST AGAINST IT.

Mr. Alfred B. Maclay, President of the

Association of American Horse Shows, Inc.,

“I am heartily in sympathy with your

movement to prevent the setting up of

horses’ tails, and I like the idea of giving

the exhibitors a certain time limit during
which they can show their

 

““3!" .w . . ,, . ,,,,,,,,,,

 

4 V. '

.- 5' ' ,
.v j,. . ,
3', ¢ V',
x x _‘ r . . n
my; ‘ ' y \
t.

’ ' é

 
   

WEARINCWTHHE ORTURHING DEVICE ‘

horses. The setting up of
a horse’s tail is a cruelly
brutal practice.”

Mr. John E. Cowdin,
Secretary of the New York
Jockey Club, is reported
as saying:

“But I am opposed to
the practice because it is
cruel and entirely need-
less. The suffering is not
really conﬁned to the cut-
ting, the strapping and
the wearing of the bustle.
The suffering continues
more or less as long as
the horse lives.” ‘

Lieut.-Col. R. S. Timmis,

D. S. O., R. C. D., popular
ofﬁcer of the Royal Can-

54."

   

 

AND ON THIS

adian. Dragoons and a well-known judge at
horse shows, says, after referring to the
docking of horses:

“My experience in the veterinary pro-
fession and while exhibiting and judging
in the big shows in the States has proved
that the practice is both brutal and unfair.
That some may use humane methods to
disfigure their horses and mutilate them
is no proof that a very great amount of
gross cruelty does not go on. In one class
at a Show I saw seven horses with open
wounds at least four inches long. Most of

these horses were being ridden by young

women. The practice of tying the middle of
the dock of the five-gaited horses tightly
over the end of the bustle is very painful.”

Mr. R. Laurence Smith, a prominent
horseman and Director of the Association
of American Horse Shows, Inc., and the
Horse Association of America, and of the
National Horse Show, is also quoted as say-

'D

J

      

_ ‘K . I‘ .7: . 4
“\"i" - Gm
‘ ' -‘ \\ " w
\ \ Q5}? \.\\ hA ”by“,

 

W \xx '
\ .va \\ “\ ~-“
New ~‘ ‘
\Q"\ \\\_\ xvi“,
‘ \ ( J \QE\euk
\\

l\(lb;

. l
‘l
'Il , \‘ \
/ ‘. “a“
”L .633“

I

;\\.

THE DOCKED HORSE—DEFENSELESS

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 108

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

The Southwestern Mustang

WILFRED McCORMICK

ous history of our American Southwest
have long been accustomed to the
phrase, “tough little cow pony,” but it is
doubtful if many of them have ever learned
just why these western horses have been so
consistently able to earn their reputations.

The cow pony, as is commonly known, is
no thoroughbred. He is not even a distinct
type of horse; that is, by his varying size,
build, color, and other visible character-
istics, he is merely a scrub. Professional
horse fanciers call him a “Broom tail” and
spurn him as a cold-blooded animal because
he lacks a recorded pedigree.

And yet, in this happen-so product of the
pioneer West there exists a strain of the
original mustang blood—the ﬁnest, most
spirited ancestry that the world of horse-
ﬂesh has ever been able to produce.

These mustangs, hundreds of years ago,
were steeds worthy of the name!

Most historians agree that the mustangs
originated with “Comet,” a beautiful horse
who, with a number of mares, escaped
from the invading Spanish Conquistadores
some time during the sixteenth century. He
was never re-captuned, although several
men reported hasty glimpses of him in later
years.

His little band spread rapidly and was
joined by others from time to time as they
managed to break loose from their gold
exploring owners.

Once freed, their lives became a daily
battle—not only in eluding the clever traps
that men laid to catch them, but against
the forces of nature herself.

Water holes were scarce and the con-
stant search for suitable forage on the heat
blistered mesas often taxed their endurance
to its very limit. Mountain lions and hun-
gry wolves menaced them continually, wait-
ing for a weakened one to stray behind.
At such times, when the protection of its
mates’ lightning hoofs and knife-like teeth
was not within close range, the lone ani-
mal was seldom able to defend itself.

Under such conditions the mustang be-
came instinctively resourceful. He learned

P EOPLE who like to read the glamor-

self—preservation ins its severest school of
training.

Wild, free, suspicious, he survived.

Years and years later, our early fron-
tiersmen found bands of them throughout
the entire Southwest. They had changed,
however, from the days of Comet. In size,
they were much smaller. Their bushy manes
and tails nearly dragged the ground and
they could scamper through dangerous,
rocky regions with the agility of a moun-
tain goat. They knew no master, save their
own leader. Man was just another enemy,
the same as the lion and the wolf. They
avoided him with all the inherent training
of their ancestors.

Human craftiness ﬁnally proved superior,
however.

They were captured by the dozens and
mixed with the larger, more stolid horses
of the settlers in wired pastures. The true-
mustang disappeared.

Today, although countless thousands of
wild horses still roam the bushy regions of
the West, untamed and even unseen by
man, the pure strain has become extinct.

The wild horses that are trapped at the.

present time, may be subdued and readily
trained into the familiar sleepy-eyed,
shaggy—haired cow ponies of the range.
This, the old timers tell us, could never
have been accomplished with the real
mustang. ' '

Those, they say, were the ﬁghters!

They knew no compromise with either
man or nature. By the time a cowboy had
contrived to break one to the use of curb
and saddle, his horse was worthless—worn
down completely. So long as a spark of
that wild creature remained, he fought his
human enemy with the same ferocity that
his ancestors had battled theirs.

It is this surviving strain of mustang
blood in the cow pony of today that gives
him value. It is this same dogged spirit
that makes it possible for him to carry his
rider more than a hundred miles in a day,
or to go long without water, and be little
the worse because of it.

Hundreds of stories—true ones—have

 

IT IS MOTHER’S DAY IN THE FIELD

 

July, 1931;

been built around the “tough little cow
pony.”

He is tough! That bit of old Comet that
courses in his veins has made his amazing
feats of endurance, a matter of actual his-
tory. They would be hard, indeed, to
exaggerate. .

History of the Horse
EMORY WARD

HE horse has always been a friend to

mankind. Far back in the shadows of
pre—historic time he furnished primitive
man with food, and aided him in his labors.
The ancient caveman in the early stages of
history decorated the walls of his cave with
pictures of the beast, and graphically de-
picted the earliest associations between
man and horse.

The ﬁrst complete record of the develop-
ment and evolution of any modern animal
is a collection of fossil horses which modern
scientists have asSembled after continued
research and undaunted efforts. It is from
this fossilized record that we gather data
concerning the early history of the horse.

Strangely enough, the earliest known di-
rect ancestor of the modern horse is the
thippus, or dawn horse, which lived in
the western sections of the United States
about three million years ago. '

In a region of warm, moist climate with
abundant forests and luxuriant vegetation,
this small fox-like animal lived peacefully
on the rich, grassy meadows and plains.
Unlike the modern horse with its cloven
hoof, the thippus had four distinct toes
on each front foot, and three toes on the
rear. In size, it never reached a height of
more than twelve inches.

Almost contemporary in development with
the th'ippus came the Orohippus, which
ranged in a region extending from Europe
to the state of New Mexico. This latter
type, although slightly smaller, was similar
to the “dawn horse” in general appearance.
On the foot, however, the middle digit be-

came stronger and more dominant.

Gradually through the thousands of
years which followed, the middle digit
showed greater development, and the re-
maining digits slowly disappeared, until in
the Mesohippus, an early horse comparing
in size to the modern prairie wolf, we ﬁnd
three digits on each foot.

Fossilized remains of the ﬁrst one-toed
horse, the Pliohippus, have been found in
North America and Eurasia as well. In
size, the Pliohippus surpassed its earlier
ancestors and probably reached a height of
three feet. It also differed from its prede-
cessors in a more elaborate arrangement of
teeth more adequately designed for grazing
purposes.

In more recent years man, himself, has
inﬂuenced the development of the horse. He
has produced slender, long-legged types for
speed and ﬂeetness, and he has produced
great muscular types for heavy burdens.

Of the true wild horse-s, however, only
the Mongolian type remains in regions of
central Asia. Three other types of true
horses have bee-n domesticated by man—the
Celtic pony, the Norse forest pony, and the
swift, graceful Arab steed. It is from these
true types that all of our present domestic
breeds have evolved.




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 38

Birds Recognize the Human

Touch

CARLETON A. SCHEINERT

T was drizzling as I looked out the door.
And, a little in front of the house, was a
peculiar looking bird. Fat, gray-feathered,
but lacking any tail! Going out to see
closer, the little fellow hopped oﬂ’, losing

 

BABY MOCKING-BIRD

his balance as he did so. A baby mocking-
bird, evidently strayed from the nest. For
there was no adult around, nor did one come
searching. Mother was away and the child
would play!

Picking the little fat bundle of feathers

up, I brought him into the house. But what
was I to do with him? I could not feed him
“in the manner to which he was accus-
tomed”! I tried to perch him on the edge
of a box. Toppled over! So we tried again.
And when he had learned this ﬁrst lesson
of perching, I got out the camera, set it up,
focused on where he would be balanced.
Then started him on his lesson again, mak-
ing the exposure as he was precariously
steadying himself!
Then I put the little fellow—we were
quite friendly now—in the lower branches
of a small tree, and watched. There mother
found him, and what a calling back and
forth there was! Within two hours he had
learned enough about ﬂying to go home.

Today this bird still frequents the house,
acts as if he owns the place. Every night
at sunset, he perches on a branch near the
door, before going home, giving us a “good
night.” Early morning, and he is back
again for several more visits during the
day. His tail is longer than his body now,
pointing up to the sky.

Almost tame, he makes me wonder if he
doesn’t remember our earlier meeting.
Surely birds recognize the human—and
humane—touch.

“What’s your idea of civilization?” the
Prince of Wales was asked.

“It’s a good idea,” replied the Princes

“Somebody ought to start it.”

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Indians as Animal Lovers

JAMES ATHOL

ECAUSE the old-time Indians de-
B pended so largely on the destruction
of wild animals for their very existence, the
Red Man has been pictured by most white
people as an implacable foe to animal life.
Having had ample occasion to observe In-
dians minutely, I ﬁnd that this idea is un-
tenable.

Some of the tenderest acts toward de-
defenseless animals I ever witnessed were
performed by Indians. Having been in close
contact with nature for untold centuries.
These men of the woodlands and the plains
know animals as no other folk; and that
knowledge brings respect for feelings, and
a love for their animal associates more
than one would think.

I have known of certain Indians to boast
that they never took an animal’s life wan—
tonly. Some are proud of the fact that
they never owned a gun. And no wonder!
It is a thing to feel a genuine pride in.

Indians are great lovers of pets. In
boarding-schools, where dogs and cats can-
not be conveniently kept, they will care for
rats or mice and even snakes. Strange as
it may seem, I have seen Red Men go out
of their way in order to avoid the crushing
of an insect.

A Wounded Robin
(A Young Lad’s Story)

NE day as I was passing by a robin’s

nest in the woods I heard the young
ones screaming. I approached the nest to
see what was the matter and at the bottom
of the tree I saw a mother robin who was
dying. I looked her 'over and I saw that the
mother robin had been shot by a 22-caliber
slug and it didn’t kill her instantly.

There were four little robins in the nest
and they were hungry so I dug for worms
and I gave the worms to those poor little
fellows, and every day afterwards I brought
them something to eat, but the saddest part
was that the mother robin died.

Now, you parents who let your children
go hunting with a gun, how would you like
it if they would shoot you and you would
be near them and hear them crying because
they are hungry and you couldn’t give them
anything to eat and you would know that
you would die soon and leave your sweety
ones alone. I suppose you wouldn’t like it
and the same is true for the birds; they
don’t like that, too.

So please look out for that and ‘try to do
your part in trying to protect the poor ani-
mals and God will reward you in heaven,
I’m sure.

PHILIP BLANCHETTE
(Sixteen years old)
Eagle Lake, Maine

Dangerous Cognomen

Miss T. N. M. writes: “My niece Marion,
aged 4, is nicknamed ‘Peanuts’ because of
her fondness for them. While visiting the
zoo, as we approached the elephants’ quar-
ters, the child pulled me down so that she
could whisper in my ear. ‘Auntie,’ she said
in a frightful tone, ‘don’t call me “Peanuts”
here, just call me Marion.’ ”

——Boston Transcript

 

Mar. 1931;

The Horned Lark Soars
and Sings

NEVIN 0. WINTER

HE horned lark is distinctively a bird

of the open spaces; or the prairies and
even of the desert. It seems to prefer dry,
sandy, soil, where there is a choice, and no
bird enjoys a dust bath more. I doubt if
it was very often seen in the eastern states
until the timber largely disappeared. But
now in many communities, including my
own, it is quite common and most welcome.

 

PRAIRIE HORNED LARK

It is a terrestrial bird, seldom perching
higher than a fence. It always stands very
upright and looks you right in the eye as
though unafraid and unashamed. It walks
with stately tread, putting one foot sedately
before the other. No hopping for the horned
lark. Such a gait is too undigniﬁed.

Another thing that endears the horned
lark to me is that he remains with us
throughout the year; not usually the same
individuals, but the average observer would
never notice the difference» between the sum-
mer and winter visitors. The summer resi-
dents are known as prairie horned larks,
but they are succeeded, as cold weather
approaches, by northern birds that have
nested in Labrador and about Hudson Bay,
a region we would consider rather inhospit-
able. They are a little more brilliant in
coloring and a triﬂe larger than the local
nesters. When the wintry winds blow and
the ground is covered with snow, we will
see these pretty songsters, not much larger
than the largest sparrows, patiently search-
ing for weed seeds or other food and occa-
sionally raising their voices in song. At
this season they are usually in large ﬂocks,
sometimes mingling with snowﬂakes and
longspurs. Such mixed ﬂocks never fail to
thrill the bird lover, because they are so
industrious and so joyful.

The northern larks do not stay with us
long and the summer residents do not re-
main away many weeks. They come back
early with the bluebirds, meadowlarks and
red-winged blackbirds. And, by the way,
they must not be confused with the meadow-
larks, although each has a yellow throat
and black band across it, for the meadow-
lark is a member of the blackbird family,
a cousin of the red-wing and the oriole.

A righteous man regardeth the life of
his beast, but the tender mercies of the
Prov. 12;]0

wicked are cruel.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

o 1. ANGELL

 

u U. S,Trade Mark, Registered L

\N1868.AND FOR Pom—MOW

The Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

The American Humane Education Society

The American Band of Mercy

I would not enter on my list of friends,
Though graced with polished manners and ﬁne sense.
Yet wanting sensibility, the man
Who needlessly sets foot upon a worm.
—COWPER

GLORY TO

GOD,
PEACE ON EARTH,

AND MERCY Too
EVERY LIVING
CREATURE.

 

/4
Published monthly by the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, N orwood, Massachusetts

Entered assecond-class-matter, June 29, 1917, at the Post Ofﬁce at Norwood, Mass., under the Act of March 3, 1879
Acceptance for mailing at spec1a1 rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 3, 1917, authorized, July 13, 1919

Boston Ofﬁce, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

Vol. 67

September, 1934

No. 9

 

We urge every reader in Massachusetts
interested in our struggle against the cruel-
ties of the steel trap to read the editorial,
“The Trapping Situation In Massachu—
setts.”

When the Lisbon Bull-ﬁghting Company
announced, as it did last May, that owing
to propaganda against the killing of bulls
the ﬁghts had been suspended, it became
evident that Portugal was well on the way
to end this so-called sport within its
borders.

The new law in England against the
rodeo, and the public opinion of hosts of
ﬁne English men and women, hit Tex
Austin and his rodeo, we are glad to say,
rather hard. He says he lost some $200,000
by the venture. England will be a good
place in the future for rodeos to avoid.

Our congratulations to Wm. F. H.
Wentzel, secretary of the Western Pa. Hu-
mane Society, for his ﬁne services in awak-
ening a sufﬁcient public opinion in Pitts-
burgh, Pa., to remedy many sad conditions
under which animals are being kept at the
zoo of the city. We doubt not there are
many other cities where the zoos need care-
ful investigation.

An attempt to introduce a bull-ﬁght at
the festivities held in July in Dieppe,
France, was thwarted by the mayor of
that city upon the appeals made by animal
love-rs in France and Great Britain. This
act of the mayor is encouraging because
of the evidence it gives that France her-
self is slowly awakening to the shame
this cruel sport has already brought upon
her.

The report of the committee appointed
by Congress to investigate the activities
of all agencies in the United States en-
gaged in the manufacture, sale, transporta-
tion, import or export of arms, munitions
or other implements of war, will make in-
teresting reading for those who have long
believed that the manufacturers of imple-
ments of war have done their full share
toward inciting nations to war.

The Crisis

The Trapping Situation in Massachusetts

and trappers, coupled with a sprink—

ling of farmers, the Massachusetts
Legislature has amended the Human-e
Trapping Law in a manner that permits
it to be annulled by every town and city
that votes to annul it. The amended law
went into effect on June 12 as an emer-
gency measure. As matters stand, the
original anti—steel—trap law is at the mercy
of every trapping community in the state.
Already several small towns in the western
part have held special elections and have
voted the cruel steel trap back.

The action of the Legislature making
this possible is a sad commentary on the
stability of the Initiative of Massachusetts.
The right of the people as a whole to enact
laws of their own choosing is guaranteed
them by an amendment to the State Con-
stitution. The Humane Trapping Law was
adopted under the Initiative in 1930 by
an overwhelming majority—327,000, the
biggest ever given a public question up to
that time. And now the Legislature con-
temptuously thrusts that mandate aside
and permits the trappers and gunners to
work their cruel will upon our fur-bearing
wild life. This action was the climax in
a series of acts that stamped the 1934
session of the Legislature as one of the
most reactionary, as one of the least re-
sponsive to the wishes of the people, in
the history of Massachusetts.

In 1933 this same body of legislators
passed another amendment to the Humane
Trapping Law, permitting landowners and
anyone in their employ to set steel traps
anywhere on their own land. A year ago,
this summer, the animal welfare societies
united under the leadership of the Humane
Trapping Council and attached a refer-
endum to that act. There being no elec-
tion last year, the question could not go
on the ballot until this coming November
election, but this new amendment——the act
of 1934—repealed the amendment of 1933.

g T the behest of a group of gunners

The societies had ﬁled 21,000 signatures
of voters, secured at considerable expense
and much hard work, all of which has
turned out to be wasted. ,

The new law—the 1934 amendment—
is known as the “local option trapping
law,” and may be thus brieﬂy summarized:
Upon application of only 25 voters, every
town and city must place upon its ballot
at the next following town or municipal
election the question, “Shall the operation
of Section 105 B of Chapter 131 of the
General Laws, requiring for the taking of
fur-bearing animals the use of traps that
kill at once or take such animals alive un-
harmed, be suspended within this city or
town?” In other words, every town and
city must vote at the command of a hand-
ful of trappers and gunners, whether it
will restore the cruel steel trap. In the
smaller towns where no ofﬁcial form of
ballot is used, but where the town meeting
form of government is in vogue, this hand-
ful of men may even force the calling of
a special town meeting to decide the ques-
tion; and, as previously stated, this has
actually been done in several instances.
The new law further provides a means of
disregarding the humane provisions of the
original law on all reservations,- sanctuaries
and other lands under the control of the
Department of Conservation.

Under the specious argument that, “It
is only fair to let each town and city de-
cide this trap question for itself,” the will
of the people as a whole is nulliﬁed. The
Humane Trapping Law was adopted by the
people of Massachusetts as a moral ques-
tion, but the Legislature evidently regards
moral questions as a matter of local senti-
ment. The small towns that have already
voted the steel trap back voted in favor of
such traps in 1930. It is to be expected
that a considerable number of towns will
take similar action; but that the larger,
more enlightened communities would do
so, is inconceivable. The real issue, of

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

Oct. 1931;

The Cattle Train Passes

MYRTLE G. BURGER

I heard the cattle train pass
And heard the cattle cry

For the poor beasts had no grass
And they must die.

No rain, no water to drink,
And the dry air burning hot;
I wonder if the cattle think
God has forgot?

Senseless Slaughter
DAVID LAVENDER

ROTECTING one’s live stock from the

predatory attacks of Wild animals is,
probably, defensible. But when this pro-
tection serves only as a thin guise to an un-
accountable mania for extermination, then
the matter becomes one which cannot be
deplored too strongly. This is something
wherein practical common sense plays as
great a part as does sentiment.

For example: Ranchers in Southwestern
Colorado were complaining of losses of
poultry and lambs to coyotes. This damage
was not extensive but enough to warrant
some measures of precaution. A govern-
ment trapper was called in and told to go
to work.

I do not know upon what authority he
acted, but I strongly suspect it was his own.
He extended his ﬁeld of operations far be—
yond the few square miles in which trouble
was reported and included a strip of terri-
tory about eighty miles in length and some
twenty to thirty miles in width. A consid-
erable part of this region is rugged, almost
impassable and unsettled, used only for the
summer grazing of cattle.

The trapping of animals is inhumane
enough. But poisoning is inﬁnitely worse.
This trapper found the ordinary process of
making sets too slow. So, instead, he scat-
tered poisoned meat.

It was a cold winter. The snow lay deep.
Food was scarce and difﬁcult to obtain. As
a consequence, practically all the “bait”
drew results. The poisoner went about,

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

bragging loudly that in three months he
had counted the carcasses of ﬁve hundred
coyotes. This does not take into considera-
tion the number that dragged themselves
into thickets and dens to die in agony
where their bodies will never be found.

So embarrassed was the trapper by this
plethora of dubious riches that he was un—
able to salvage more than a small percent-
age of the skins. Thus the holocaust ceases
to have even money for an excuse, and be-
comes a matter of killing for the sake of
killing alone.

I have heard of examples of ruthless ven-
geance, but never have I come across the
equal of this ferocious bestiality that took
ﬁve hundred lives as payment for a few
hens, turkeys, and a sheep or two.

And what was the result? The next sum-
mer this same region was overrun with
jack—rabbits, prairie dogs, and ﬁeld mice.
These animals are the natural food of the
coyote. Without the coyote to hold them
in check they multiplied: in unbelievable
numbers. The damage they did to grain
ﬁelds and gardens far outweighed the losses
suffered through depredations on live stock
by the very animals which were slaughtered
as harmful.

Poison played its part in another grim
farce in a fruit section of Colorado. Here
contaminated grain was scattered to get rid
of so—ca‘lled vermin: mice, prairie dogs,
rabbits and the like. The results gained
were of a fairly satisfactory nature as far
as the animals were concerned. But again
the end was not that anticipated by the
means. Birds, of course, ate the grain.
Far more of them died, in all probability,
than did rodents.

The outcome you can guess. A plague of
insects ravaged the orchards. Literally
hundreds of trees were irretrievably blight-
ed. The relief from animal pests gained
by this wholesale extermination in no way
compensated for the damage done to the
trees, both in the orchards and in the un-
cultivated forests nearby.

The farmers and ranchers in these two
sections have learned the wisdom of mercy.

Join the Jack London Club and help stop

the cruelty of trained animal acts.

/w

Page 155

“Daisy Day” on the Cape

HE second annual “Daisy Day” on

Cape Cod, sponsored by the Women’s
Auxiliary of the Massachusetts S. P. C. A.,
Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke, president,
was held successfully on Saturday, August
18, when a substantial amount was raised
for the work of the Society in that district.
About a dozen towns and villages were rep-
resented, and the work of the chairmen
and members of the various committees is
greatly appreciated, as is the co-operation
of those friends who sent in checks. Mr.
Harold Andrews, ofﬁcer of the Society in
Hyannis, took charge of the committee
there with his usual eﬁiciency, being aided
by the Community Service department of
the Hyannis Grange.

Chairmen of other committees in charge
of the drive in various communities were:
Miss Jean Hinkle of Osterville, Miss Eu-
nice Lawrence of Falmouth, Mrs. Alice Lee
and Miss Priscilla Lee of Harwichport,
Mrs. William Rowe of Brewster, Miss Grace
Doane of Chatham, Mrs. B. D. Sparrow of
Orleans, Burton Robinson of Yarmouth,
Mrs. Neva O’Neil of West Dennis, Miss
Esther Howes of Dennis, and Miss Mar-
garet Perry of Centerville.

Will You Sign This Petition?

If so, please send us "your name and ad-
dress as indicated below, and we W111 add
it to the list.

The Petition

We, the undersigned, knowing the great
and unnecessary cruelty of the present
methods of slaughtering food animals, do
hereby pledge ourselves to cut our con-
sumption of meat and meat products ten
percent or more, until humane slaughter
is installed in every abattoir, all carcasses
to be stamped “Humanely slaughtered.”

Street address ..........................

City ...................... State ........

AN UNUSUAL SIGHT EVEN IN NEW HAMPSHIRE—PLOUGHING WITH TWO YOKE OF OXEN

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

Apr. 1931;

Going Home Day

ROSAMOND CALDWELL

HE reception room of the animal hos-

pital is crowded for it’s “Going Home
Day.” As many patients as possible are
being discharged on this, the last day of the
year, and the fortunate owners have come
to claim their pets.

A small black-eyed Italian boy, very dirty
and ragged, stands before the enclosure be-
hind which attendants are busy answering
telephone calls, registering and discharging
patients.

“Please, Missus Lady,” he pipes. “I come
for ‘Sam.’ We want him home for de holi-
days.”

“I don’t know,” replies the pretty blonde
girl, addressed as ‘Missus Lady’; “did the
doctor say he could go?”

“Yes Ma’am. See, I gotta ticket.”

The boy fumbles in his pocket, and pro-
duce-s a dirty handkerchief from which he
extracts a torn post card, and the hospital
receipt.

The attendant consults her records, and
ﬁnds that Sam is well enough to leave.
Meanwhile the boy conﬁdes: “Sam is our
cat. He’s a big ﬁghter, and he can lick any
cat on de block, but a mutt got him and near
chewed his head off. But the doctor here
ﬁxed him up O.K.”

Sam makes his appearance in the arms
of an orderly. He spies his master from
afar, and begins to struggle violently, emit-
ting raucous cries. He is a black and white
alley cat, with stubby whiskers and a know-
ing leer. His head is still bandaged, but he
wears the bandage with a dash, tilted rak-
ishly over one ear. His chunky body is cov-
ered with the scars of many battles.

“Sam, you old bum,” shouts his master,
tearing the cat from the attendant’s arms,
“you’re going home.”

Sam buries his bandaged head in the
boy’s neck, and emits a deep growling purr,
while he is being carefully stowed away
inside the child’s frayed overcoat. A white-
jacketed doctor pops his head out from an
oﬂ‘ice.

“Bring your cat back next week, and let
me have a look at him.”

“Yes, Doe, I sure will. Thank you.” And
Sam, still wriggling and purring, is borne
out.

My right-hand neighbor on the bench is
an interested spectator. He is a fussy little
man, well dressed and prosperous. He, too,
has come to claim his pet, and as he sets
the dog’s satchel down, he beams at me over
gold-rimmed spectacles.

“It’s nice to see kids so fond of animals,
ain’t it?” he remarks apropos of Sam. “I
come for my dog. First off they thought she
couldn’t be home for the New Year, but she
took a turn for the better. I missed her
something awful, it didn’t seem like home
Without her.”

“What kind of dog have you?” I inquire.

“Maltese terrier. Her name’s ‘Mae West.’
That was my idea, though the wife said
she didn’t like having a Mae West around
her home. She’s that smart—our Mae I
mean—wait till you see her. Here she is.”

Mae West comes in, carried by an attend-
ant, who has difﬁculty in holding her. Her
owner hurls himself on the attendant, and
seizes Mae, who squirms and yelps and licks
his face.

“There! There! Hold still will you?

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

ﬂﬁ

A

That’s the girl! You’re going home, Mae,
here’s your satchel. Let me get you into it.”
Mae’s rapture knows no bounds. She
squeaks, wiggles and stands on her head.
Finally, after much effort, she is popped
into her satchel and fastened securely in.

Not everyone is so fortunate. Here and
there among lucky people to whom their
pets are restored, one notices a sad face. One
woman has been upstairs to visit her dog,
and she hurries back through the reception
room, crying. She makes no effort to hide
her tears, and sympathetic glances and
murmurs follow her.

Someone brings in a stray. A muddy
white poodle, dejected and frightened, it
tries to hide. Thin and shivering, it looks
as if it might have traveled many weary
miles. While the girl in charge is taking
the poodle’s description, and noting down
where it was found, a man hesitatingly
approaches.

“I’d like to have that dog, Miss,” he says,
stooping down to pat the poodle. If nobody
comes for him, I’ll give him a good home.
He’s like ours, who died here. I dunno what
my wife will say—bringing in another dog
so soon. She declared she’d never have
another, but I’ll risk it.”

“Are you sure you’d better take him?”
asks the attendant. “If your wife doesn’t
want a dog, she may not treat him well.”

“Oh, yes, she will, Miss,” replies the man
eagerly. “ ’T’ain’t in her not to be good to
an animal. It’s only that she feels mortal
bad about our ‘Topsy,’ but I ﬁgger giving
a good home to this poor mutt will be kinder
like doing something for Topsy. Maybe he
knows, and will be glad.”

And so, after due adoption formalities,
the poodle, with a collar and leash donated
by the Hospital, is led away by his new
master. '

The proper care and consideration of even
the most insigniﬁcant of living things helps
mankind to a better understanding and ap-
preciation of human rights. W. K. HORTON

Little Paula was telling her playmate
about a grown-up friend who was a vege-
tarian. “But,” she qualiﬁed, “she’s only an
inside vegetarian, not an outside one, ’cause
she wears a fur coat.”

 

Page 61

 

 

Horses and the New Deal

CONRAD O.PETERSON

HE CWA program, which calls for as
much hand labor as possible on all pro—
jects, enables the ever-ready horse, to do his
share in assisting the return of prosperity.
Hence, enter the horse! Exit the truck
and its high cost of gas!

In Northern Wisconsin, projects such as
graveling roads use sleighs pulled by
horses to transport gravel. These sleighs
are loaded by the old pick and shovel
method. In this way all CWA checks go to
the people of the community. Many farm-
ers, with the assistance of “old Dobbin” and
CWA checks will be able to pay their taxes
this year.

People in small city, village and country-
side are now bringing the horse back to use
in many ways. With reduced incomes in
all modes of life, methods of all kinds have
to be resorted to, in cutting expenses. The
horse needs good food and care, but is
ready to go at all times, with no expected
trouble with an empty gas tank or ﬂat
tires. During the cold winter months, when
travel is difﬁcult because of the deep snow,
scattered farms and communities especially
prize the horse. “Old Dobbin” may be old
and badly bent, but he ambles along slowly
but surely, doing his share in this world.

Thus the new deal is of great beneﬁt to
horses, also for the simple reason that
when a horse becomes valuable, he receives
better food and treatment.

Saranac Lake, N. Y., discovers that cold
winters can amazingly make warm friend-
ships, says the Christian Science Monitor.
An old shepherd dog on the farm of John
S. Johnson was seen regularly to carry part
of his food on a mysterious trip into the
woods. He was followed and found with
head and shoulders in a fox’s den. Within
were a sick mother fox and her two young
foxes. Old “Shep” had fed them for many
days. His rations were doubled and he kept
up his relief work until the mother fox was
able to forage for herself. If dog and fox
can chill to an understanding—Well, why
can’t despairing leaders of the unneighborly
nations take a timely tip from Old Shep?

 

 




 

 

 

l4pr.1934

How the Canary Came to
Europe
CARL SCHURZ LOWDEN

BOUT the time that Columbus was

making his important voyages west-
ward across the Atlantic, a coastwise ves-
sel was proceeding through the Mediter-
ranean toward the Egyptian port of Alex-
andria. It had come up the African coast
from the Canary Islands where it had
taken aboard a large number of canary
songsters. The birds were a cheery lot;
their melody made the crew and passengers
happy.

All went well on the sailing ship until it
started through the 100-mi1e neck of the
Mediterranean between northern Africa and
Sicily which hangs Off the toe of the Italian
boot; at least, that is the way it looks on a
map. A severe storm struck. The masts
and sails were torn away. The ship found-
ered, burst open in places, and was cer-
tainly doomed to go down. Apparently all
on board would be lost.

“As we cannot save ourselves,” said one
of the sailors, “I will free the birds which
have entertained us since we took them
from their native land. I will open the
doors and let them out. They will surely
perish with us if I do not help them.”

Birds and animals seem to- have an un-
canny sense of impending danger; in this
respect their intelligence betters that Of
man. As soon as the kind sailor opened
the doors of the cages the canaries zoomed
out and ﬂew speedily upward. Suddenly
they shot out in a northeastern direction.
Had they sighted Sicily, or was the wind
coming from the southwest? Their little
yellow bodies made a rapidly moving cloud
as they stayed all together in their effort
to reach dry land.

Where did those canaries go? For some
reason they did not like Sicily, and they did
not relish Italy; but they did stop at Elba,
the island which was destined much later
to be the place of banishment for Napoleon
Bonaparte. They remained there for a time,
then went on to the European mainland,
and ﬁnally selected the Hartz Mountains
for their permanent home. Today the bulk
Of imported canaries come from these moun-
tains which are covered with dense forests
and thick undergrowth.

The sailor that freed the little yellow
birds went down with his ship. All the
passengers were lost. However, one sailor
managed to seize a heavy timber from the
ship, and he clung to it till it scraped a
beach. He was the only survivor from the
ocean tragedy, the only one left to tell this
story Of his brother sailor’s kindness to the
canaries.

Strawberry Boxes for Robins

A quart strawberry box makes an accept-
able foundation for a robin’s nest if securely
wired to a branch or crotch of a tree such
as robins favor. The sides of the box make
just enough of an extension to the walls of
the nest to keep lively young robins from
falling out, while the extra support which
the box gives is insurance against the col-
lapse Of the mud walls in a heavy rain.

DOROTHY A. BALDWIN

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Smallest Bird in the World

ORIN CROOKER

HINK of a bird so small and light in

weight that it is more like an insect
than a feathered creature. This is Calypso’s
humming-bird, found only in Cuba. The
tiny creature is a scant two inches from
the end of its beak to the tip of its tail,
and it weighs so little that when held in
one’s hand it seems no heavier than So
much wool or cotton. As a matter Of fact,
the humming-bird moth, which is now and
then to be seen just at dusk visiting ﬂower
beds in the late summer, is really larger
and heavier than the tiny Cuban humming-
bird which, so far as known, is the small-
est bird in the world.

Cedar for Wren Comfort

It must have been by accident that a
house wren who lived in our orchard
achieved for herself and her nestlings an
unusual degree of comfort. She built in one
of the nest-boxes and was frequently seen
picking up twigs beneath some nearby ce-
dars. After the young had ﬂown the nest
was removed from the box and the material
sorted, when it was found that Of some 600
sticks which had been used in construction
fully 200 were brown sprays Of cedar. The
fragrance of these was noticeable when the
box was opened, and perhaps it was be-
cause Of the lavish use of cedar that, so
far as we could tell, the nest was entirely
free from the pests which so often swarm
in wren households.

Mrs. Wren had not been so wise in her
choice of other materials for she had in-
cluded two nails, two chicken bone-s, and
over forty pieces of rusty chicken wire.

DOROTHY A. BALDWIN

 

THE BREAKING-UP OF WINTER

Page 59
Wood Ducks and Guillemots

WILL HERMAN

HE summer duck or Aim sponsa or

wood duck performs one of the queer-
est feats—for a duck! Unlike the rest of
the duck family, this creature builds its
nest high in trees, usually in the hollow Of
a tree, near streams.

After a time there comes, Of course, the
problem Of getting the. young ducks down
and into the water. TO let them ﬂy down
themselves is impossible since the ducks
cannot as yet ﬂy, and to let them fall down
is certain death! But the wily wood duck
does neither of these. Just as you or I
would remove a baby from a high chair, so
does she remove her children from the nest.
In her bill she seizes one of the birdlings by
the fuzzy neck or a wing and gently ﬂies
to earth. She repeats this until all the
young ones are removed, and the brood be-
gins its water career.

The guillemots are faced with a similar
problem. They are beautiful, shapely birds
of black head and White breast. Their nest
or brood is hatched on the top of inacces—
sible cliffs. Their problem is more difﬁcult,
for the young guillemots are heavy and
cannot be carried by the bill. SO the par-
ents give the young ones a pick-a-back ride.
By threatening or coaxing, as birds do, the
parents get the young ones on their backs.
Then gently, slowly and easily, they drop
down hundreds of feet and land the young
ones. If any more remain on the cliff, the
parents return until the task is completed
and the family is once again united.

The Hunting Evil

When hunting in civilized countries passes
out as has slavery, child labor and other
recognized evils, it will
mean not only a happier
and more proﬁtable wild
life but less human deaths
and maimings by gunshot
wounds. Every state in
our Mid-west has from
twenty to ﬁfty hunting
accidents each fall where
the victims are either
killed or crippled. In one
case not so far from my
home in Iowa last fall a
hunter got in too big a
hurry to shoot into a
bunch Of pheasants and
accidentally shot his guide
in the face. It totally de-
stroyed the sight of one
eye and it is feared the
guide will lose the sight
of the other eye. The
guide is terribly woe-
stricken and the hunter is
almost crazy. Several
hunters were killed in
Iowa last fall.

Of course hunters are
not entirely to blame. The
grasping avarice of deal-
ers in ﬁrearms and ammu-
nition is one big cause.
Hunters are a class that
need to be protected from
their own lust for killing.

WILLIS MEHANNA

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 60

Trap-Linc Cruelties

EMORY WARD

ITHIN the last two years I have

become intimately acquainted with
several individuals who trap the small fur-
bearing animals of their region for the valu-
able pelts which they bear. On numerous
occasions I have even accompanied them
on their trap-lines to learn of the conditions
under which the animals were secured.

My friends are not especially barbaric in
regard to the feelings of the fur bearers,
yet I must admit that the methods which
they employ to secure the pelts are far
from humane.

Of all the times that I have accompanied
them along their trap-lines I cannot truth-
fully remember one single day along the
line without its unmistakable evidence of
pain and suffering among the fur bearers.
Sometimes it was a dangling foot which
some unfortunate creature had frantically
chewed off in its ﬂight for freedom away
from the cruelly pinching steel jaws which
held it so secure.

Once my friends explained to me that
they had made an excellent set for a pos—
sum in the drain tile at the edge of a corn
ﬁeld, but the next morning, upon running
their traps, the possum set yielded a small
grouse which had been captured by the
springing jaws, and partially eaten by a
roving marauder.

Several times they revealed to me that
bait sets which they had intended for skunk,
had captured roving farm cats or small dogs
and held them until the trappers came
around to grant them release from the

stinging torture—if it was not already too
late.

I can remember numerous instances in
which I have seen small squirrels caught in
a trap intended for larger fur bearers,
many of which had perished before being
released from the vice of steel. Birds of
all kinds were captured in the steel jaws,
and once a rooster, straying far from his
domestic ﬁreside, was held prisoner by the
iron grip of jaws and spring.

Frequently the trap-line was neglected
and forgotten for several days straight, and
the animals were allowed to suffer merci-
lessly and eventually perish after hours of
torture.

Since I have followed the trap-line so
much and witnessed ﬁrst hand the cruelties
which the small fur bearers endure, it is
natural that I should take special delight
1n the rapid advancement made in the de-
velopment of humane traps. Within the
past few years countless new styles and
types designed to capture the fur bearers
with the least amount of pain and cruelty,
have been placed upon the market.

Yet trappers are reluctant to adopt the
newer types. Perhaps this is because they
have become hardened to the ordeal and see
no reason to change. Then, too, the newer
humane traps are generally more expensive
than the old-fashioned long-spring types,
and frequently more cumbersome to carry
and set.

'The “new deal” in American trapping
Wlll come when the trappers universally
adopt the newer types of traps which catch
the fur bearers with no pain and suffering.
That will be progress for humanity.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Apr. 1931;

Animals That Wear Snowshoes

EARLE W. GAGE

and south, but deep snow and heavy,
razor-edged ice, is the terror of animal
life, hazards to men who endeavor to travel
through the waste in mid—winter. Snow is
the fearful menace, snow which covers up

N OT the intense cold of the far north

 

“THE SOLES OF THE POLAR BEAR
ARE SHOD WITH A DENSE GROWTH
OF HAIR”

food supplies, robs the swiftest of speed and
leaves'the animal at the complete mercy of
the foes that are winged or otherwise equip-
ped to follow fast and lay it low.

In fact, in the northern forests and Bar-
ren Lands, Mother Nature is obliged to
equip her creatures who spend the entire
year in the forbidden empire with suitable
protection against both the biting chill of
extreme cold and the obstacles made by
deep snowfall. Not many animals even at-
tempt to survive the stress of these com-
bined adversities, save by burying them-
selves and escaping the hard season in that
continuous sleep we call hibernation, which
in Latin means “wintering.”

The white polar bear, the Arctic wolves
and foxes, now and then a wolverine, the
caribou and certain mountain-sheep, white
hares and mouse-like lemmings, about com-
plete the list of animals that can neither
run nor hide away from the all-but fatal
climate where, as the ancients thought,
ﬂourished Boreas, the god or demon, who
blew the north wind from his frozen cheeks.
Let us see how some of these hardy animals
are equipped against the severest of win-
ter weather.

First, all wear coats of long hair, be-
neath which is an “undershirt” of closely
felted, wool-like hairs. These hairs entangle
a ﬁlm of dry, warm air which prevents the
heat of their bodies, sustained by their food,
from escaping. Fur does not so much pre-
vent the cold from entering to the skin as
it preserves the bodily heat from getting
out, owing mainly to the dry air it holds,
since dry air is among the best known non-
conductors. But these animals must ﬁnd

nourishment in order to keep up the nec-
essary bodily heat. In order to secure this
food they are obliged to travel on and dig

through the snow, so nature is oblige-d to
protect their feet and adapt them to the
peculiar conditions prevailing in the north
country; in fact, they are modiﬁed annually
in these respects, in order to give them the
ability to dwell in the north the year round.

In the case of the polar bear we ﬁnd that,
unlike other bears, the soles of his feet
are not naked, but are shod with a dense
growth of hair which not only prevents
freezing, but enables him to cling ﬁrmly to
ice and frozen crust without his feet get-
ting cut. In a similar way nature provides
for the wolverine, lynx and other fur-bear-
ing far-north animals, although these ani-
mals do not all winter in the Arctic.

It is interesting to know that the grouse,
especially the ruffed grouse, and those of
the ptarmigan group, are each year ﬁtted
out with new “shoes” for winter use—as
well as “stockings,” the feathers growing
clear over the toes of both feet. A row of
broad scales develops as winter sets in on
each of the toes, doubling the breadth of the
bird’s feet. Thus, as it walks about it bears
but half as much weight on the surface it
treads as in summer while it wanders in
quest of food and thereby it is enabled to
get more freely about and to escape more
quickly than the small—footed enemies are
able to travel. These same grouse have also
acquired the habit of diving under the snow
as a protection against the bandits of the
forest and plain, such as foxes and weasels,
and to get shelter from killing blasts when
a blizzard sweeps across their haunts.

Likewise, the Arctic lemmings, which do
not hibernate, acquire annually an altera-
tion of the feet that helps them to dig
through hard snow down to the ground,
where they may get at herbage on which
they mainly exist, and pick up dormant
insects. This feat they must do incessantly,
and to enable them to do it a great horny
pad forms in late autumn on the under-
side of the two claws of each of the fore-
feet, hardening the claws to perform rough
work. These pads slough off when spring
comes and they are no longer needed.

Possibly the most striking adaptation in
these animals of the far-away places, really
relics of the remote glacial age and condi-
tion, that survive in our time to roam over
the Arctic waste, is that of the whitehare,
or snowshoe rabbit, so familiar in northern
New England and parts of Canada. The
rear legs of this ﬂeet creature are larger
and stronger, and the feet broader, than
in other rabbits of the same size; and in
winter these great rear feet, with their long,
spreading toes, become entirely covered with
a heavy coat of hair forming broad, snow-
shoe-like pads, which enable the animals
to run easily over soft snow into which the
narrow limbs of their enemies sink, ob-
structing their ﬂight. It perhaps is due to
this fact, more than any other, that these
rabbits are able to escape in most cases the
hungry four-footed hunters that vainly en-
deavor to catch them. Although they do
manage to catch a few by craft, rarely do
they overcome them in the chase, since no
living animal spending the winter in the
snow country is able to overtake the white
hare.

 




 

__.-_ r4 -

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 156
The Colt Remembers

On that one day he felt not lash nor goad;

Instead, soft palms to ease his weary feet;

While on his back a slender stranger rode,

Whose hand was gentle and whose ’voice
was sweet.

In loud acclaim a thousand voices call,
So full the streets one went to clear the

way;
Since that far night when cattle lent their
stall,
No beast has ever known such splendid
day.
Again, tomorrow, blows and bitter fare;
Not purple robes—the chaﬁng pack
instead;
But that one day he heard a whispered
prayer,
And once a hand in blessing touched his
head.

M. J. B. in The Churchman

The Graceful Sea-gull

GRAYSON FABLE

HALF mile above the channel soared

the great bird. Its wings were still ex-
cept for an occasional ﬂap to execute a
hairpin turn. Then the gull slid down-
ward, in great spirals and long glides, un-
til at length it was but a few feet above
the water. Suddenly it dropped like a plum-
met and snatched a struggling ﬁsh from
the water. With the prize in its beak it
rose and, ﬂapping violently, sped back
across the channel to the salt marshes. The
little sea-gulls would be waiting for lunch.

It is unusual indeed to see a single gull
on a “ﬁshing trip.” They invariably travel
in ﬂocks of from two to thousands, but
their modus operandi is the same. Sweep-
ing over the salt water areas they search
for anything in the way of food—bits of
garbage, refuse, and whatever ﬁsh they can
catch. A favorite pastime is following
ships at sea and dining on the scraps thrown
overboard.

The size of these birds is unusually large
—much greater than it appears when seeing
one In ﬂight. The wing spread may be as
much as four and a half feet and the length
of the body is usually just under thirty
Inches. The breast is snow-white and the
back and wings a bluish-gray. Not a par-
ticularly beautiful creature, to be sure, but
certainly one of the most graceful in ﬂight.

Noise is one of the most familiar charac-
teristlcs of sea-gulls. Their shrill bickering
and quarreling is well known to any one
who has ever had occasion to listen to a
ﬂock at dawn. Even when strutting about
the beaches and sand bars they converse
loudly and their cries can be heard when
they are ﬂying a mile high in the air.

I remember once seeing a couple of crows
whlch had trespassed on the gulls’ property,
probably in search of the eggs. NOW the
crow-1s somewhat smaller than the sea-gull
but is nevertheless a doughty scavenger.
The gulls shrieked and plunged at their
hated. adversaries but the crows refused to
be drlven very far away. They would beat
a hasty retreat, then perch insolently upon
a piece of driftwood and wait until the ire

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

Oct. 1934

Tablet to Japanese Colonel for Humane Act

 

HAT a humane act

H can be international

in its inﬂuence is evi-
denced by the tablet, placed
August 31 last on Mt. Rubi-
doux at Riverside, Cali-
fornia, by the Riverside
Humane Society, in honor
of Lt. Col. Shunzo Kido, one
of the contestants of the
Tenth Olympiad held at Los
Angeles in 1932.

As the inscription relates,
“He turned aside from the
prize to save his horse. He
heard the low voice of
Mercy, not the loud acclaim
of Glory.” By thus being
merciful to his mou nt,
which was at the point of
exhaustion, he lost the ‘
coveted award for the race,
but will always be remem—
bered with gratitude by all
horse lovers.

Added honor was paid
Lt. Col. Kido in that the
tablet was unveiled in the
presence of Prince Kaya of
the Imperial family of
Japan, who has recently
been in Southern California
on his trip around the
world. Hundreds of ﬂags of
the two nations were waved
when the brief ceremony ,
was concluded. L__

 

 

 

 

   

 

of the enemy had calmed. Eventually they
would be able to make a new attack which
in turn would be repulsed by the ever—ready
gulls. The battle lasted for several hours,
after which the crows gave up in disgust
and ﬂew away. Their patience endured no
longer than that of the alert sea birds
guarding their nests.

Last winter when the cold became so
severe that even the salt marshes froze over
the gulls had a sorry time of it. I know
of at least one instance where truck loads
of garbage were carried into the meadows
and dumped to provide food for the birds.
Cold as it was, it did not seem to make
much inroad into their numbers. When
summer came the gulls were about in ﬂocks
as great as ever.

One thing is quite certain in my mind:
There is not much possibility of the sea-
gull ever becoming extinct. This graceful
creature breeds throughout the northern
hemisphere and in places inaccessible to
the gunner who fancies them as targets.
For this I am thankful. The sea—gull, like
the tang of salt air and wind-swept beaches,
is a characteristic of the sea which I hope
and fully believe Will never disappear.

Sydney Smith wrote once to one of his
friends, “I have found that between 10 and
70 years of age I had eaten and drunk 44
horse-wagon loads of meat and drink more
than would have preserved me in good
health. The value of this mass of nourish-
ment I considered to be worth 7,000

pounds sterling.”

Once at the Holland House a French
savant spoke scathingly of the Supreme
Being, claiming to be an agnostic. After
listening for some time in silence, Sydney
Smith said, “Very good soup, this.” The
Frenchman agreed. “Oui, monsieur. C’est
excellent.” Sydney said, “Pray, sir, do you
believe in a cook?”

To speak of the horse sense of most
people in this world, is to insult a noble
and useful animal. LUDWIG LEWISOHN

Societies’ Annuity Bonds

ANY men and women, lovers of ani-

mals, are getting both happiness and
material comfort from our two Societies’
Annuity Bonds. These bonds are absolutely
safe and yield a return according to one’s
age. They make their appeal ordinarily to
people over 40 years of age. Send the
coupon for a free folder which gives full
details. Fill in the coupon and mail it now.
The Massachusetts S. P. C. A. (or)
The American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Ave., Boston, Mass.

Without obligation to me, please send

me your folder which tells all about your
Annuity Bonds.

.................................
ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo

...............................

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

PageﬁO
Our Dumb Animals

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston Ofﬁce; 180 Longwood Av-
enue, Boston, Mass., to which all communications
should be addressed.

Dr. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON, Editor

WILLIAM M. MORRILL, Assistant

 

MARCH, 1934

 

FOR TERMS, see back cover.

AGENTS to take orders for Our Dumb Animals are
wanted everywhere. Liberal commissions are offered.

EDITORS of all periodicals who receive this pub-
lication this month are invited to reprint any of the
articles with or without credit.

MANUSCRIPTS relating to animals, particularly
prose articles of about three hundred words are solic-
ited. We do not Wish to consider prose manuscripts
longer than 800 words, nor verse in excess of thirty-
six lines. The shorter the bettter. All manuscripts
should be typewritten and an addressed envelope with
full return postage enclosed with each offering.

 

 

Walter B. Pope

N the death of Mr. Pope, which occurred

February 4th last, the Mass. S. P. C. A.
lost a friend who had given to it many years
of faithful and unselfish service. Years
ago, having retired from a successful busi-
ness as a lumber merchant and always a
lover of animals, he gladly offered his ser-
vices as one of the Society’s agents, refus-
ing any compensation and for something
like twenty years gave his time, his strength
and his money to its work. In the earlier
part of his service he was particularly in-
terested in the welfare of the animals ar-
riving at the stock-yards and abattoirs.
Often from dawn till dark, through all sorts
of weather he could be found at Brighton
inspecting the incoming cattle, sheep and
swine trains, and cattlemen and railroad
employees seldom failed to follow his direc—
tions for they knew it was only fair play
and justice he wanted for the animals. For
years, also, his automobile was at the ser-
vice of the Society and no trip was too long
for him to make when there came a com—
plaint of cruelty. A wise, keen business man
he gave us of his best and we gratefully
record our debt to him.

Orphan Hero Honored

The memory of Roscoe Hobart, a 16-year-
old youth who made heroic efforts to save
the lives of horses, cattle and chickens in
a burning barn and lost his own as a re-
sult, was honored recently by the Massachu-
setts S. P. C. A.

A medal ﬁttingly inscribed was presented
to the Onondaga, N. Y., Orphans’ Home
where the young hero had lived before
going to work upon the farm. In the pres-
ence of his former companions at the Home
Rev. Dr. W. Waldemar W. Argow, pastor
of May Memorial Unitarian church spoke
these words:

“One of those who lived and played with
you is being honored, honored in death be-
cause there was in him the spirit of kind-
ness and humaneness and the spirit of

sacriﬁce, not for humans alone, but also for
dumb animals.”

Remember Be Kind to Animals Week,

April 16—21, and Humane Sunday, April 15,
1934.

OUR DUMB

ANIMALS

 

 

Charles S. Murphy

MONG the most helpful friends we have
had in our efforts at legislation that
will stop the showing of horses with docked
or set-up tails in this state is Charles S.
Murphy, a well—known lawyer of Worcester,
whose picture we are glad to show our

readers. Not only has he distributed sev-
eral thousands of our leaﬂets, “The Shame
of It,” but he has given us two broadcasts
at his own expense and arranged to have
the story of our campaign circulated
through the schools of Worcester County.
Such friends we deeply appreciate.

MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A. IN THE
COURTS

Summary of Prosecutions in January

For cruelly driving a horse unﬁt for labor
by reason of lameness, a defendant pleaded
guilty and was sentenced to House of Cor-
rection for one month; suspended one year.

Two defendants were convicted of cruelly
torturing a horse. Both pleaded nolo and
paid ﬁnes of $20 each.

For cruelly shooting a dog and leaving
it wounded, offender was ﬁned $10.

Failing to provide proper shelter and
protection for hogs, two defendants were
found guilty. One was given one month
sentence to House of Correction; suspended,
and put on probation for six months. The
second paid $15, as costs.

For failure to provide proper food, drink
and shelter for hogs and fowls, two defend-
ants were guilty. One was given three
months at the House of Correction; sus-
pended for one year. The other was ﬁned

$25 and ordered by court to dispose of all
his animals.

The owner of three dogs failed to provide

them with proper food and shelter. He was
ﬁned $25.

For cruelly working an unﬁt horse and
subJectlng him to unnecessary suffering
(two counts), a defendant was ﬁned $25 on
each count. He appealed and a jury in Su-
perior Court found him guilty. He was sen-

tenced to the House of Correction for a term
of three months.

M ar. 1934

THE MASSACHUSETTS SOCIETY FOR THE
PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS

Founded by Geo. T. Angell. Incorporated March, 1868

See page 45 for complete list of ofﬁcers

MONTHLY REPORT OF OFFICERS

See page 43 for complete list of prosecuting ofﬁcers

Miles traveled by humane ofﬁcers. . 13,473
Cases investigated ........... . . . 474
Animals examined .............. 9,601
Number of prosecutions .......... 10
Number of convictions .......... 10
Horses taken from work. . . . . . . . . . 12
Horses humanely put to sleep ..... 63
Small animals humanely put to
sleep ....................... 1,001
Stock-yards and Abattoirs
Animals inspected .............. 31,977
Cattle, swine and sheep humanely
put to sleep .................. 19

The Massachusetts Society for the» Pre-
vention of Cruelty to Animals has been re-
membered in the wills of Henry Singlewood
Bisbing of Gales Ferry, Connecticut, Ella
E. Shaw of East Boston, and S. Irving
Richardson of Brookline.

February 13, 1934.

HOSPITAL REPORT FOR JANUARY
Including Springﬁeld Branch

Hospital Dispensary
Cases entered 758 Cases 2,365
Dogs 576 Dogs 1,890
Cats 174 Cats 433
Horses 5 Birds 35
Birds 2 Horses 3
Monkey 1 Rabbits 3

Monkey 1

Operations 1,114
Hospital cases since opening, Mar.

1, 1915 ....................... 117,314
Dispensary Cases ............... 269,614

Total ........................ 386,928

The Month in the Springﬁeld Branch
Cases entered in Hospital .......... 78
Cases entered in Dispensary ....... 288
Operations ........................ 151

Fez Monthly Report

December, 1933 — 31 Days

Daily average, large animals 47.6
Forage for same $133.78
Daily average dogs 9.6
Forage for same 6.51
Put to sleep 31 9.58
Transportation 6.97
Wages, grooms, etc. 86.86
Inspector’s wages 27.03
Superintendent’s salary 149 44
Assistant’s salary 77.83
Veterinary’s salary 24.90
Motor allowance 15.57
Sundries 42.75
$581.22

Entries: 2 horses, 8 mules, 41 donkeys.

Exits: 10 horses, 4 mules, 29 donkeys.

SUPT.’s NOTES: Assistant’s and Inspector’s re-
port on the 70 native fondouks: visits made during
the month, 708; animals seen, 6,919; animals treated,
1,876; and animals sent in, 32.

Inspection of animals in souk market: visits made,
7; animals seen, 1,508; animals treated, 248; and
animals sent in, 4.

Our readers are urged to clip from “Our
Dumb Animals” various articles and re-
quest their local editors to republish.
Copies so mutilated will be made good by
us upon application.

 

 




 

 

Oct. 193.4

Prayer to the Swan
KADRA MAYSI

The gray wild geese have quit the North. . .
White Cygnus, hear, and speed them forth!
Nightlong, their starry calling flings
Arpeggios from Lyra’s strings;

And, far behind them as they fly,

The Eagle and the Dragon die.

Behind their track fade Hercules,

Corona’s hive of boreal bees,

The Serpent and the jeweled Chair
0f Cassiopeia, the Bear,

Before them burns the Scorpion. . .
Direct their ﬂight, Celestial Swan!

Before them gapes the Lion’s jaw;

The Crab drags fouling ﬁn and claw;
Before, the Goat and Taurus play;

The Dogs and dying Lupus bay. . .

Bright Cygnus, warn them death will hide
Where Centaur, Ram, and Archer ride!

Make windless-still this way they go—
The way of Hydra and the Crow!
Fog—from your snowy-feathered breast—
Lagoon and marsh where they must rest!
Brood high above their lonely band—

And stay Orion’s awful hand!

Progress Humane-ward

HE ANIMALS’ FRIEND, is the title
of a sixteen—page magazine published
in Athens, Greece, and now in its third
year. Though printed in the Greek lan-

guage principally, its latest issue contains ~

a page in English, edited by Mr. Charilaos
Lagoudakis.

The editor states that the need of such a
publication was strongly felt by the educa-
tional committee of the Greek Society for
the Protection of Animals and that it was
established for the purpose of reaching the
younger generation, where humane educa—
tion should obviously begin. We invite the
attention of our readers to the following
appreciative words by Editor Lagoudakis:

“The story of animal work in Greece can—
not be told without acknowledging the en-
couragement it has received from our Eng-
lish speaking friends. The inﬂuence which
the “Martin Act” had on Continental legis-
lation for the protection of animals is a
well-known fact. But the initiative of pri-
vate individuals in promoting the animal
movement abroad has created strong bonds
of humane ideals between the various coun-
tries. Greece in particular is greatly in-
debted to friends in England and America
for both their material and moral support
in reviving an old Greek tradition. For
this reason it is thought well to edit this
column in English, devoted primarily to
describing the various phases of animal
work in Greece for the beneﬁt of those who
cannot read Greek. We shall, therefore, be
glad to receive literary contributions for
publication from English readers who have
witnessed the progress made in Greece since
the days when Plutarch’s teachings had al-
most been forgotten.”

A ﬁne tribute is paid to Mrs. Alice W.
Manning, representative of the American
Humane Education Society in Constanti-
nOple, who has materially aided in organ-
izing the youth in humane activities.

OUR

DUMB ANIMALS

 

 

 

 

 

Meet Mr. and Mrs. Cardinal

CARL SCHURZ LOWDEN

EIGH—HO! Come along into the wood-

land. Look sharply to right and to
the left, peer among the seared rose bushes,
the elders, hazel shrubs, sumac, blackberry
tangles, and cedars. If there are any pines,
look there also. Do you see that ﬂash of
red? Do you hear that well-rounded whis-
tling? The tones are less deliberate than
those of the quail. Who is the merry-
maker?

Though commonly known as the redbird,
you may not ﬁnd the name listed in the
dictionary or bird book. There he will
doubtless be described as the cardinal gros—
beak because he wears the crimson costume
of this church dignitary and has a compar-
atively large bill. He sports a jaunty red
crest which serves as his cap. His gay
coat shades gradually from a bright red to
much darker red or rufous.

You can easily recognize the redbird in
summer, but in winter you would scarcely
know him. His attire becomes dulled to a
dingy brownish hue while his mate re-
sembles a wind-blown bundle of dead weeds.
Of course she is ever more somber than her
proud husband. One could imagine that
in winter he dons her summer costume while
she ﬁnds the least attractive dress in her
wardrobe.

Nevertheless, the head of the family sets
a good example otherwise, for he frequently
tells his mate how adorable she is. In sum-
mer his favorite call seems to be “Sweet
dear!” and in winter it is precisely the
same. He likes to dispense a wide variety
of notes. His phrases range from these do-
mestic compliments to owlish imitations and
the drawn-out whistling summons of one
small boy to another. He merits some repu-
tation as a mocker; yet in this respect he
could never seriously rival the mockingbird,
catbird or chat.

The cardinal will frequent yards if
planted in shrubbery or low trees. There
his red plumage against a background of

Page 157’

deep cedar makes a ﬁne picture. In mating
season the cardinal may do apparently
freakish stunts. He has been seen. to
attack the house near which he lives, not
that he hated the house or had become dis-
contented with his surroundings but for a
perfectly good reason in his own eyes.

Imagine the cardinal swooping from a
tree toward the.house. He strikes the win-
dow glass with a bang that nearly shatters
1t. He falls, picks himself up, and ﬂies
back to the tree. In a few moments the
flaming thunderbolt hurls himself again at
the closed window. Again he tumbles, man-
ages to get to his feet, and then speeds
away. Is the brilliant fellow playing a new
game, or has he suddenly become demented?
Why should he wish to ﬁght a house as
Don Quixote fought a windmill? The build—
ing bulks about a million times the car-
dinal’s size.

.Now try to View the situation as the car-
dinal must see it. Go to the cedar, and look
toward the house from the attacking point.
Just why had the bird seemed mad? Well,
the play of light and shade there had trans-
formed the window glass into a mirror. The
cardinal had been glimpsing his own image,
and he had been attacking it because he
thought it to be a rival intending to poach
upon his home district. His motto is sim—
ply “No trespassing.”

The cardinal truly loves his freedom.
Some years ago one might see large cages
bearing “For Sale” placards and containing
a dozen or more small redbirds. Their
crests were worn down sadly from beating
against the restraining wires in vain ef-
forts to escape. In every cage they were a
pitifully forlorn group, as much out of their
element as ﬁsh out of water. Fortunately
there are now stringent laws against the
keeping of wild songbirds in captivity.
Never does a wild bird sing in any cage

the buoyant notes that he gaily trills out—
doors.

The Massachusetts S. P. C. A.
and The Animal Rescue
League

The confusion in the public mind with
regard to these two Societies causes each of
them no little trouble. The Massachusetts
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals with its Angell Memorial Animal

Hospital, at 180 Longwood Avenue, which

was founded by George T. Angell in 1868,
and the Animal Rescue League with its
Clinic and Hospital work, at 51 Carver
Street, which was founded by Mrs. Hunting-
ton Smith in 1899, are two distinct organiza-
tlons, co-operating where occasion demands
but avoiding, where possible, overlapping in
their activities. That the two should often
be considered as one is not strange; both
are seeking a common end. Yet each,
through the telephone and by letter, is con-
stantly being confused with the other. Both
are hoping this statement will help to lessen
the misunderstanding with regard to the
two Societies which so frequently occurs.

FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
Massachusetts Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

ROBERT F. SELLAR, President
Animal Rescue League

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




l

 

 

 

 

June, 1931;

Twentieth

State. Proclamations, Radio

 

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Page 85

nnual Be Kind to Animals Week

and Pulpit Addresses, Press Publicity and School Activities

SOME OF THE PRIZE-WINNING POSTERS FROM 5,373 RECEIVED IN ANNUAL CONTEST OF MASSACHUSETTS S.P.C.A.

HE founder of Be Kind to Animals

Week builded far better than he knew.

The ﬁrst observance, in 1915, was re-
ported as a marked success. But each suc—
ceeding anniversary has demonstrated that
this idea is growing with the years, that
more and more 'people are awakened to the
call of justice for animals, that the stress
laid on the subject during these special
weeks is proving its value to organized
humane work.

Certainly Massachusetts had a record-
breaking celebration this year. Governor
Ely’s ﬁne Proclamation was published in
full last month. Excerpts from the state
press, elsewhere, indicate the unusual
amount of interest shown in all parts of
the Commonwealth. Never has there been
so great a demand for humane ﬁlms. The
Massachusetts S. P. C. A. reports no less
than a total of forty exhibitions of its two
ﬁlms,“‘On Behalf of Animals” and “The
Bell of Atri.” Many‘ of these were in

schools, some in churches, some before
Granges and other societies.

Humane Day in Schools, set for April
20, was generally observed either on that or
some other convenient date. A program of
special exercises was furnished free to
about 8,000 teachers of elementary grades
throughout the state. In Boston, during Be
Kind to Animals Week and the week fol-
lowing, many of the prize-winning posters
in the state—wide contest of the Massachu-
setts S. P. C. A. were exhibited in the Fine
Arts Department of the Public Library in
Copley Square. A few of them are repro-
duced on this page. They were selected
from 5,373 sent in from 395 schools, repre-
senting 138 cities and towns. There were
681 bronze medals awarded as ﬁrst prizes,
706 silver medals as second prizes, and 1,062
subscriptions to Our Dumb Animals as hon-
orable mentions.

Among the churches observing Humane
Sunday was the Plymouth Congregational,

in Belmont, where the Society’s ﬁlm was
shown at the church school; First Congre-
gational, Hyde Park, where the evening
service was devoted to “The Gospel for the
Animal World,” with ﬁlm exhibition and
special music; and Clarendon Congrega-
tional, Hyde Park, where humane ﬁlms
were shown.

Addresses in connection with the Week
were given in various schools of Greater
Boston by President Francis H. Rowley,
Miss Ella A. Maryott, and Mrs. Edith W.
Clarke of the Massachusetts S. P. C. A.

At South Gardner the Parent-Teacher
League held its April meeting in the school
auditorium, where the M. S. P. C. A. ﬁlm
was presented, followed by songs and decla-
mations on animal themes by the pupils.
In Holyoke the local Museum had special
displays to demonstrate the pleasure and
proﬁt derived by man through preserva-
tion of wild life. In Worcester radio and
school talks were given by prominent citi-

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

‘ l

Page 182

The Raccoon
RACHEL DAY

Into our yard one afternoon

From the forest crept a shy raccoon;

His brown coat was a pretty sight,

His tail ringed.._’round with black and white.
He walked about with cautious tread,

And when he heard us raised his head

And turned to us his quaint masked face,
Then sprang away with artless grace.

We called, “Raccoon, its such a treat

To have you here. Come, drink and eat!”
He stopped, then turned as if to say,
“Perhaps I shall come back some day
When creatures forest-bred and dumb

To haunts of men can safely come.

Now, vbeauty’s dangerous you see

And brings but harm to folk like me!”

Shooting Our Waterfowl

EMORY WARD

HE United States Biological Survey es-

timates that over ﬁfteen million wa-
ter-fowl are killed annually by hunters in
the United States, and that seven and a
half million more are wounded and lost be-
yond the hunting grounds.

Thousands of hunters take to the lakes
and marshes each year for a period of de—
structive shooting which, at the present
rate, will eventually lead to the complete
annihilation of America’s wild fowl. The
most astounding fact of the entire affair is
the great number of birds which are only
wounded, left to limp painfully off to die.

The maximum number of fowl allotted to
each hunter is limited by law, but the re-
quirements are far too lenient. Too many
hunters are out purely for the purpose of
slaying the wild life of America, and in
such ruthless destruction there is no sport.

Wild ducks ﬂying high overhead beyond
all possible gun range, are lured within
shooting distance by decoy baits and traps.
Feed beds on which the ducks have been ac-
customed to feed during the earlier months
are suddenly turned into hunt clubs with
the approach of cool weather, and the
ducks are slaughtered in wholesale quanti-
ties to satisfy the thirsts of self-styled
sportsmen. .

It is indeed a sad stage of civilization
when the Biological Survey of a country
such as the United States must report to its
citizens that the nation’s water-fowl are be-
ing killed off annually in numbers of fif-
teen million, and that half as many are
crippled and wounded.

I

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

Dec. 1931;

Reindeer to the Rescue

Christmas to Bring Cheer to Starving Eskimos and Indians

FRANK YEIGH

history is about to be completed. It is

the story of a ﬁve-year trek of some
three thousand reindeer from Alaska to
Northern Canada that is now near its end——
a journey of two thousand miles overland
to the heart of a vast region within the
Arctic circle, crossing en route wide plains,
mighty rivers and giant mountain ranges.
The tale makes an epic of its kind.

Some years ago, as older folks will re-
member, a small herd of reindeer was
transplanted from northern Europe to
Alaska, largely as an experiment, which has
proved a most successful one, for the few
hundreds of the original stock have in-
creased to over a million, adding millions
of dollars to the wealth of that country.

The Canadian government, watching this
experiment, decided to adapt the idea on
behalf of the Eskimo and Indian popula-
tion of the Northwest Territories of the Do-
minion, having in mind the value of these
four-footed animals to- the needs of man,
both as food and clothing and as a means
of transportation. So a contract was made
with a group of men to drive a large herd
cross—country to a ten-thousand-square-mile
reserve set apart on the eastern bank of
the Mackenzie River. A price of sixty dol-‘
lars a head was arranged, based on the
number that might actually be delivered at
the chosen destination.

At Christmas time in 1929, about three
thousand selected reindeer were assembled
and under a dozen herders were started
towards their new home. And now, after
a ﬁve-year trek, the survivors of the strenu-
ous migration—two thousand odd—are
nearing their goal.

The meager reports that have percolated
through government channels have given
but brief mention of the diﬂ‘iculties en-
countered. Temperatures for example have
ranged as low as 70 degrees below zero.
Many narrow escapes from freezing have
occured as well as the loss of many ani—
mals, especially through the furious bliz-
zards that sometimes swept for days from
the Arctic fringe. Sometimes numbers of
the animals, distraught by the storms, wan-
dered away and the herders were required
to search far aﬁeld for them, thus causing
long delays.

Another danger among many was that
from neighboring herds of their quadruped

s NEW and thrilling chapter‘in reindeer

cousins, the caribou, who would surround
sections of their more domesticated brethren
and try to sweep them into their own mi-
gratory columns.

The reindeer herders have put in ﬁve
exacting and exciting years in marshaling
their charges. They have had to- ﬁght off
wolves and grizzlies which constantly have
attacked the herd; they have had to con-
tend with sickness and accidents among
their own numbers as well as in the rein—
deer herd; they have had to forge their
way through icy wilderness and tangled
scrub, over glare ice and treacherous snowy
hummocks. And, most provoking perhaps of
all handicaps, they have had to contend
with the homing instincts of the animals
and their repeated tactics of doubling back
on their tracks. ’

Now that the surviving animals near
their rendezvous, it will be to them a prom-
ised land. Living conditions will be ideal,
as to a supply of food in the shape of nature
grasses and the sprouts of new growths of
spruce and birch, which are delicacies to
these creatures of the wild. They will be,
too, under governmental protection as the
enclosure will be a great game preserve and
carefully trained herders will be on con-
stant duty. The authorities are hopeful that
the same natural increase will take place
as in Alaska, and that ultimately and per-
haps soon a great Canadian reindeer in-
dustry of a high monetary value will result.
The chief object, however, of the under-
taking is to provide a permanent food and
clothing supply for the scattered inhabi-
tants of the Arctic rim and thus avoid the
ever-present danger of famine, as sometimes
in the past. It will be remembered that
Santa Claus’s favorite steed is very highly
regarded in Lapland, where every part of
its anatomy is used, even after serving its
masters during its lifetime.

Such is the story of the greatest animal
trek ever attempted by men, although na-
ture herself has long since performed simi-
lar marvels as the vast herds of caribou
and musk ox and other stalwart denizens
of the Far North have moved at their will
over countless leagues of wild territory.
With the arrival of the reindeer comes the
assurance of the necessaries of life to the
Eskimo and Indian natives, a population
numbering probably 5,000. What more wel-
come present could be theirs at the Christ—
mastide?

    

REINDEER AT SHINGLE POINT, YUKON TERRITORY, LAST WINTER

 




 

e_;i

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 84

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

J am, 1931;

Standard Oil Company

(INDIANA)

Versus the Humane Societies of This and Other Lands

HETHER ignorant of the wide-
W spread growth of public sentiment
in this and other lands against the
exploitation of animals through what are
known as trained animals’ acts or, indif—
ferent to this public sentiment, we cannot
say, but this great oil company, whose name
appears at the head of this artlcle, has
planned for staging this year at A Century
of Progress at Chicago an animal act por-
trayed in the picture on this page. The
Chicago Daily News of Tuesday, April the
third, under this picture says, “Action and
thrills aplenty await visitors to the Stand-
arcl oil exhibit at the World’s Fair this
summer where Allen King, youthful animal
trainer, will crack his whip at 36 jungle
beasts perched about him in a circular cage.
He is shown outstaring a snarling lion.”
Some years ago public attention was
called by the celebrated Jack London to
the cruelties involved in the training of ani—
mals for these various performances. Lon-
don says, “Cruelty, as a ﬁne art, has
attained its perfect ﬂower in the trained
animal world. But what makes my gorge
rise is the cold-blooded, conscious, deliber—
ate cruelty and torment that is manifest
behind ninety-nine of every hundred trained
animal turns. I have been appalled and
shocked in the midst of happy, laughing,
and applauding audiences when trained ani-
mal turns were being put on the stage.”

As a result of what Jack London had
seen, the Jack London Club, after a con-
ference with Mrs. London, was started some
ﬁfteen years ago in the ofﬁces of the Massa—
chusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals. Membership in the
Club requires only the pledge to leave,
where possible, such animal acts as are
being exhibited and to use the best of one’s
inﬂuence to stop such performances. The
Club in this country alone has reached a
membership of over half a million. Similar
Clubs have been formed in England, France,
and other lands, and an international con-
gress of Jack London Clubs was held two
years ago in Paris. Furthermore, every
humane society in this and other countries
has protested against these performances.
Legislation has been sought to limit their
activities and to lessen, as far as possible,
the cruelties involved.

These cruelties are not apparent upon
the stage except on rare occasions. They
are associated with the long period of train-
ing where the animals are subjected to a
discipline wholly unnatural and contrary to
their inborn instincts. Seldom does one wit-
ness a trained animal act without being
told by the trainer how it has all been done
by “great kindness.” It is not necessary to
cite cases where convictions against trainers
have been obtained for the cruel treatment
of animals in the process of being made
ready for public exhibition. One needs to
spend but a moment in thought to see that
not only domestic animals, but, above all,
wild animals, like lions, tigers and leopards,
cannot be induced to do many of the things
they do, so contrary to their natural in-
stincts, without having been forced to do
them. One also needs only to recall the cases
where trainers have been killed, or sadly

 

Chicago Daily News Photo

TRAINED BY “KINDNESS”! WHO CAN BELIEVE IT?

mutilated, by the animals they were sup-
posed to have treated with such marvelous
kindness.

Immediately upon the appearance in the
Chicago papers of this proposed exhibit,
there was a meeting of the representative
of the Chicago and Cook County Federation
of Women’s Organizations and of several
other humane groups in the city of Chicago
with a representative of the above men-
tioned Standard Oil Company and a protest
made against this exhibit, and the plea
urged that the Company abandon this
method of advertising. A further interview
was had with a representative of this oil
company by the President of the Massachu-
setts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals. The plea of the Company was
that it had been to large expense in engag-
ing this animal trainer with his outﬁt, that
A Century of Progress was spending some-
thing like $40,000 preparing a stage and
auditorium, and that there seemed to be no
possibility of the act being withdrawn. The
Company would be very glad, it was said,
to avoid any unfavorable publicity in this

matter; to which the only reply possible on
our part was, that just as the job of the
oil company was to run a great business,
so, our job was in every way possible to
look after the welfare of animals.

As this magazine goes out to all the hu-
mane organizations in this country and to
nearly all in other lands, into tens of thou-
sands of homes, and to some ten thousand
of the leading newspapers of~the United
States, we must believe that there will be a
great multitude of people stirred to criticism
of such a method of advertising by a busi-
ness organization seeking the advertisement
of its products through a plan that has the
opposition of the humane societies in this
and other lands. Many, doubtless, will be
inclined to refuse to purchase the products
of the company who otherwise might have
done so. That thoughtless people. will be
amused by the animal performance we do
not doubt. That the animals will be well fed
and comfortably housed may all be true, but
they will still be prisoners behind the bars
and away from all the surroundings in
which Nature designed them to be.

 

l

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 36

To an Animal Dead in a Trap

ALFRED I. TOOKE

What was your crime, that you were
punished so?

Tortured, and left to die amid the snow;

Parching with thirst, and, where the steel
jaws pinch,

Sinew and tendon freezing inch by inch,

Till, with a ﬁnal gasp of anguished breath,

You were released from torture by kind
death? '

Why did they kill you in this torturing
trap?

Milady said she’d like a sable wrap!

Milady’s smile was sweet, her face was fair.
She had a wealth of other things to wear.
Yet, for her whim, by torture you must die,
So that a moment’s pleasure she might buy.
Life was to you as precious as to her.
Was it a crime you had such lovely fur?
Agony, pain, and madness in a trap!
“Isn’t milady lovely in her wrap?”

An Effective Weapon

ANY evidences that the Jack London

Club is growing in numbers and inﬂu-
ence continue to reach us. Wherever its
aims and objective are proclaimed and
understood there is a ready response to the
call to membership. We are in receipt of a
long list of names from a recently formed
unit in Cincinnati which decides at once to
present a petition to all the local theaters and
amusement centers, asking the managements
not to book trained animal acts. This is a
most effective procedure. It serves notice
upon those directly responsible for the ex-
ploiting of performing animals that such
cruelty as is involved in their training
and subsequent mistreatment will not be
condoned or witnessed by those who know
the truth. Remember that it was Jack Lon—
don himself who said: “Show the manage-
ment that such turns are unpopular, and
in a day, in an instant, the management will
cease catering such turns to its audiences.”

Wayside Animal Prisoners

OR the comfort of the writer of the fol-

lowing letter to the Boston Post we
want to say that for several years our So-
ciety has sought legislation to stop the
cruelty suffered by the wayside prisoner,
but without success. We have a similar bill
before the Massachusetts Legislature this
year.

Roadside Animal Prisoners

“Dear Sir—I read your protest in All
Sorts against keeping bears and other ani-
mals prisoners at roadside ﬁlling stations
and hot-dog stands, and I want to say that
I agree with every word contained in the
editorial against this practice which you re-
printed from the Bridgton, (Me.) News and
with the way you backed up this editor.

“All last summer at a certain resort, a
young bear was kept prisoner on a short
length of chain in the blazing sun where he
paced back and forth day after day in a
small enclosure and must have suffered un-
told agony. Part of the time, his pan of
water was dry and empty, and I doubt if he
got enough to eat. The sight of a bag of

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

peanuts would start him whining piteously.
What had this dumb animal ever done to
deserve such a sentence as that?

“Your article headed ‘A Plea for Animal
Prisoners’ is the ﬁrst of its kind I have seen
in any newspaper on this question and I
hope it will kindle a fee-ling against such
cruelty that will result in stopping the
practice of keeping animals prisoners along
the roadside not only in New England, but
all over the country. I believe animal lovers
everywhere will agree with you.

Swampscott “D. W. F.”

“Old Jakie”

SILVERQUILL

HEN and where the ﬁrst horse be-
came the servant of man will never
be known; for, though it was a thrillingly
important thing, the event has been lost

 

THE SHEPHERD AND HIS PARTNER

among the commonplace events of the past.

Since that time this noble creature has
been a more than vital part of human exist-
ence. With his patient and powerful shoul-
ders he has dragged the ploughs which
have turned the ﬁelds of the world, and he
has brought in the fruits of them to the
garner for thousands of years. He has lev-
eled the highways of the ages, over which
the migrations of men have gone to the
making of nations. He has moved the slain
forests of the earth, and the riven rocks of
all the quarries, of which the cities buried
and abiding were made.

On his graceful, bounding body the arm-
ies of patriotism and right have charged
to victory in the tragic battles of wars; and
he has carried the heroes of all time at the
heads of their triumphant legions in every
grand review. Governments and seats of
power have been preserved by the ﬂeetness
of his limbs, while no frontier could ever
have been won without him; and he has
shared the pain, the sweat, the labor of
the world’s millions since the morning stars
were young. On all the tables of the world;
in the walls and pavements of our fairest
palaces; set in every gleaming arch; mixed
with the crimson cement of every city

 

M ar. 1 934

street, and wrought into the robes of peas-
ant, prince and king, is the unrequited toil,
the wide-nostriled agony of the horse.

The animal in the picture is “Old J akie,”
a decidedly important part in the equipment
of the great Dixie Sheep Company of the
far West. For half a score of years this
patient, faithful old servant has carried a
fourth of a hundred herders tens of thou—
sands of miles in steady suceession, over
countless hills and valleys, and has helped
preserve approximately two million dollars’
worth of perishable property in that time.
And yet, aside from a little grain now and
then, he has never had a pay-day, a vaca-
tion, nor any reward for his services.

The man in the picture is Mr. Frank
Rose, and between him and Old Jakie there
is a very tender bond of affection. In the
day time, when the herder may lie down in
the shadow of a juniper to rest; or in the
night when the man is asleep; the old horse
will come and touch him with his nose to
see if everything is all right.

When asked about the comradeship exist-
ing between them, the shepherd’s eyes grew
dim as he answered:

“Old J akie and I are mighty good friends.
He has carried me over the mountains for
a long time; and he never leaves me very
far, and just seems to know everything I
say to him. He is getting old now, and I
want to buy him, and take good care of him
till he dies. For, you understand, lonely
men like me must have something to love.”

An Editorial Worth Reading

HE example of the Worcester Evening

Gazette by its recent editorial on dock—
ing and setting up horses’ tails might well
be followed by thousands of other papers in
the land:

Where Horses Are Abused

Fashion is the poorest possible excuse for
doing a cruel and stupid thing. And the
practice of setting up the tails of saddle
horses has no other excuse than fashion.
Horsemen may follow any style they please
in their personal apparel. If they happen
to look ridiculous, no harm is done.

If they merely made their horses look
absurd, there would be no harm in that.
People who care more for a horse than they
do for a silly fashion might complain that
it was unkind to mar the beauty of a splen-
did animal by docking its tail. But that
kind of feeling for animals is rare.

Nearly everyone, however, resents the
cruel treatment of animals. And the process
of setting-up requires cutting the strong
ﬂexor muscles on each side of the tail. This
is a cruel business. And, when the tail is
reduced to a useless stump, the horse is
deprived of a ready protection against ﬂies.

To the credit of intelligent horsemen, it
should be said that many of them are openly
opposed to the practice. They haven’t yet
found a way to abolish it. And here the
Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals is trying to help them.

A man caught maiming a horse in this
manner might perhaps be prosecuted. But
if the state forbids the exhibition of horses
thus mutilated, the law would pretty surely
put an' end to the practice. The Society is
working for such a law, and the Legislature
ought to pass it. ‘

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 2.?

river trafﬁc. This year a new road tra-
verses the whole: length of the reserve, from
the Limpopo River in the north to the
Crocodile River in the south. Tours are
made under ordinary holiday conditions. In
various sections of the park rest camps
have been established. Most of these con-
sist of thick-walled concrete huts, with
thatched roofs, plainly furnished with the
usual camp equipment. At several camps
trading stores sell a wide range of pro-
visions. Each automobile is allowed one
ﬁrearm, to be used only for self-defense.
The South African game reserves are
open to visitors with hardly any restric-
tions. Among the other reserves in the
country is the Bontebuck Park, about a hun-
dred miles east of Cape Town, founded to
protect the bontebuck, sometimes called the
pied antelope, from threatened extinction.
In the Kalahari National Park the gems-
buck, depicted on the coat of arms of the
Cape Province, and the springbuck, a na-
tional emblem, are found in large. numbers.
The Addo Elephant Reserve is reached
from Port Elizabeth. Other reserves are
located in Natal and the Orange Free State.

Australian Bower Birds
MORRY TANENBAUM

HE bower birds of Australia are among

the queerest birds in that land where
almost every bit of plant and animal life
is curious and strange. Some of the birds
ought to be called bluebirds for they like
the color blue better than anything else.
However, their name of bower comes from
the fact that they build large playgrounds
or bowers in front of their nests.

These playgrounds are very well made.
They are of twigs, one part being a curved
fence made of branches tied together at the
top, and the other, a platform enclosed by
the fence. As soon as this is done the birds
set out to decorate their homes. The satin
bower bird will use no other colors but blue
or yellow—blue preferred. He will ﬂy off
and return with blue ﬂowers; bits of blue
glass; blue feathers; bits of blue china;
pieces of blue paper; bits of blue cloth—
anything and everything with a hint of
blue in its color scheme. Yellowish-green
leaves, shells and similar objects come only
as second choice. The bird will never bring
an object which contains red unless it has
a great deal of blue in it as well. Every-
thing is spread in front of the doorway.

The spotted bower will take no objects
which are not white. To do this, its collec-
tion includes bleached bones, white pebbles,
white shells and bits of paper.

The most wonderful of all these birds is
the gardener bower bird. This bird will
actually plant a small garden in front of his
home. First, a carpet of fresh green moss
is laid down and on it are placed ﬂowers
and berries with brightly colored seed pods
mixed among them. He adds other colored
ornaments and is a true gardener for, when
his ﬂowers wither, he removes them and
replaces them with fresh ones.

We have need of the Humane Societies.
They have done noble work in the actual
lessening of the suffering that naturally or
unnaturally comes to our wild brothers, to
our domestic animals, and to our own kind.
Let us strengthen their hand, for theirs is
a service that humanity can ill spare.

—Nature Magazine

 

OUR

DUMB ANIMALS

Feb. 1931;

 

EVENTIDE IN THE DESERT, EGYPT

 

U. 8. Army Camel Corps

WILL HERMAN

FTER the war with Mexico, the United

States had added thousands of miles
of territory to itself. Many new posts and
stations were created and men were dis-
patched to ﬁll and take care of the various
territories. Then the United States found
itself in a predicament.

The men had arrived at their new posts,
but how were the supplies to be gotten to
them? Horses couldn’t stand the trail over
the desert nor could the mules. Even if
they could, the dangers of wagon transpor-
tation were far too great because of the
Indians and the Mexicans.

General Beale ﬁnally made a suggestion
which sounded most ridiculous but really
solved the problem. He suggested a Camel
Corps, and Jefferson Adams, the then secre—
tary of war, decided to give it a trial.

A ship was sent to Asia Minor for camels
and after two trips, the ship reached In-
dianola, Texas, with a total of forty-four
camels. The animals were in a miserable
condition, all of them having become sea-
sick on the way over.

General Beale immediately took charge
of the new corps and in a short while they
were ready to travel. General Beale was
highly enthusiastic about the Camel Corps,
claiming that it would revolutionize the
entire mode of desert transportation in
America. There was reason for his enthusi-
asm, for the camels seemed to like the sage-
brush and other bitter bushes which they
found in the American deserts.

On January 21, 1858, the world was in-
formed that General Beale had arrived
safely at California. He had been success-
ful.

However, Davis left the cabinet and only
Beale defended the camels. They were
poorly taken care of, some wandered away
and some died. The rest were auctioned off
and Beale bought them to care for them
during their old age.

So ended the ﬁrst and only United States
Army Camel Corps.

If you are interested in knowing about
the cruelty in trained animal acts, then
read Jack London’s “Michael Brother of
Jerry” upon which

THE JACK LONDON CLUB
is built. Will you join it? N o dues.
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston

Wild Geese

EDWIN CARLILE LITSEY

Down lanes of air high overhead
The wild geese volley on;

A phantom wedge against the sky
With outlines faintly drawn.

One scarcely sees them in their flight
Before they fade away;

With speed incredible they dart
Across the dying day.

Now weirdly comes the leader’s call,
And weird is the reply,

As straining throat greets straining throat
Out of the dark’ning sky.

Throughout the night the ﬂock will go
On swift, unwearied wing,

To come to rest on some far lake
When dawn its pennons fling.

What guides them on their chartl-ess course
To some determined goal?

Ah, “instinct” is the dim reply
Of man, who boasts a soul.

Bad Angles of Trapping
WILLIS MEHANNA

The steel-trap is not only an instrument
of torture to helpless and innocent wild ani—
mals but is often the cause of boys starting
to steal. Some boys are more successful at
trapping than others and it is a common
thing for one trapper to get to stealing
trapped animals from another boy’s trap.
This sort of thievery is much easier to get
away with than other thefts because the
rightful owner of a pillaged trap cannot
swear to his property, it, of course, being
stolen before he gets around to look over
his traps. I have seen and heard of many
nasty rackets on account of stealing from
traps and know of one lawsuit growing
from this source. Anti-trapping legisla-
tion will not only prevent suffering among
helpless wild life but will prevent some boys
from starting on a career of stealing. As
better times seem to be on the way, now is
a good time to legislate against trapping
and encourage boys to pursue a more hu-
mane way to make money.

Do not abandon your pets.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

July, 1934

To a Little Dog

I think that I still hear that little whimper
at the door——

That I must needs go open it when faring
forth he’d go;

0r, reaching down an idle hand, I feel the

touch once more
Of a little, black, cold muzzle that—I’m
missing so!

The shrill ecstatic barks of joy that my
return would greet,
The flaunting little pennon which wove so
glad a smile, '
His proud possessive spirit that bravely ran
to meet
Invasion of his small domain—gone now,
the while!

I know not where Elysium is, but this I
know full well,
That though those hazel eyes may never
answer when I talk,
His little feet are padding down the paths
of asphodel
With some kind shining Spirit—“going
for a walk!”

WILSON WILLARD STAVER

King Albert and the Cat

The late King Albert of Belgium was a
great animal lover. On his last visit to
Switzerland, a Persian cat owned by a
movie star paid a visit to his apartment.
His Majesty was at tea, welcomed his visitor,
and offered her a saucer of cream. There-
after the cat came every day at tea-time to
visit the King, which so embarrassed the
actress when she learned of it that she has-
tened to offer apologies. “But,” said the
King, smiling, “it is she who does me great
honor.”

Remember that the ﬁrst great need of
animals in hot weather is plenty of fresh
water.

 

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

A Boy’s Love for His Dog

CHARLES E. A. MOORE

ROWNIE” was not pedigreed. He was

not a thoroughbred that would take
away a blue ribbon. He was just a dog; an
alley dog—that’s where I found him. He
was just a pup then, but he knew that I was
to be his master the ﬁrst time he saw me.
There seems to be an unexplainable attrac-
tion between a boy and a dog, something as
though they had lived before and had found
each other again. That’s the way it was
when I found Brownie. I can still see him
running up to meet me and licking my shoes
as if to say, “Gee, but I’m glad to see you
again.” I believe he was glad to see me.
He seemed happier than any of my human
friends seem when they see me. No one
knows for sure what kind of dog he was.
When I held his ears up he looked like a
police dog, but when they were hanging
natural he looked more like a shepherd. But,
of course, I knew that he was the best dog
in the world. ,

He knew that he wasn’t supposed to fol-
low me to school but he always managed to
keep me in sight. And if I showed any signs
of seeing him, here he would come running,
his heart bursting with joy that he could go,
too. I would stop at the corner grocery to
get candy, and no matter if it was only a
penny’s worth, he always got half. He never
learned to ask for it, but he knew enough
to sit down and shake hands for it, and
that’s more than some people ever learn.

I taught him to say the children’s prayer,
“Now I lay me down to sleep.” And every
night he would stand against a chair, his
head between his paws while we said the
prayer together.

In the winter, when it was cold and snow
was on the ground, we would sit in front
of the ﬁreplace and tell stories to each other.
Of course, I was the only one that could
understand him, and I was the only one
that he could understand. Sometimes we
would pop corn before the ﬁre and after we
had eaten all we could hold, we would lie
down, his head on my
chest, and go to sleep.

I used to think what
a harmony there would
be in life if everyone
was as true as a dog.
Dogs never complain
when hardships come.
They, never desert in
time of danger. Their
only wish is to be with
their master.

And then, like all
things that live, they
must die. They must go
down into that unex-
plored valley from the
mountain of reality. I
remember when Brown-
ie started on his jour-
ney from life. He was
lying in front of me—
dying from p o i s o n.
When he was hungry,
I could feed him. When
he was thirsty, I could
give him a drink. When
he was cold, I could

“TRIEVE,” A REAL FRIEND OF BIRDS. THEY ARE NOT bring him in by the ﬁre.
AFRAID OF HIM AND WILL ALLOW HIM TO STAY But when he died, I

CLOSE BY WHILE THEY FEED.

was helpless. T h e r e

Page 109

was something I could do nothing about.
Just before he died he made one last effort
to drag himself to my feet. His jaws were
locked but his eyes spoke and they seemed

to ask for the prayer that I had taught him,
and I thought I heard him say:

When my sun of life is low,
When the dewy shadows creep,
Say for me before I go,
Now I Lay Me Down to Sleep.

I am at the journey’s end,
I have sown, and I must reap,
There are no more ways to mend—
Now I Lay Me Down to Sleep.

Nothing more to doubt or dare,
Nothing more to give or keep,
Say for me the children’s prayer,
Now I Lay Me Down to Sleep.

Who has learned along the way——
Primrose path or stony steep,—
More of wisdom than to say:
| Now I Lay Me Down to Sleep?
What have you. more wise to tell,
When the shadows round me creep .
All is over, all is well . . .
Now I Lay Me Down to Sleep.

And then he died. He left nothing to
posterity—nothing to keep his memory alive
in the world. But somewhere, sometime, he
will live again in the life of another. He
will be just as true, just as certain, just as
understanding and just as kind.

Touching Tribute to Pet Dog
EDWARD J. G. TUCKER

0 NE of the most touching tributes ever
paid the memory of man’s best friend
is to be found at Chudley, Ontario, in
Northern Canada. This little settlement is
but a ﬂag-station without beneﬁt of church
or school and boasts a mere half-dozen
houses. But though an isolated community
it is unique—for here live Mick Dwyer and
his wife, who nightly have placed a lighted
lantern over the grave of a pet dog, ever
since it was killed ﬁve years ago. In sum-
mer, ﬂowers are kept on the burial place of
the beloved pet.

The dog once saved the life of one of the
Dwyer children, dragging it in the nick of
time almost from under the wheels of a
locomotive. The pet was only a black and
tan mongrel but after that, no money could
have purchased it from the owners.

It is a tragic coincidence that the faithful
dog met its death under the wheels of a
passing train. The Dwyers were heart-
broken. In some manner they held the train
crew responsible for the dog’s death, claim-
ing that the cruel accident could have been
avoided with a little care. So they picked a
burial site in full view of passing trains.
The grave by day and the lantern by night
serve as constant reminders of the tragedy
to the train crews passing through Chudley.

A square post is at the head of the grave,
which is of boxed earth raised about a foot
above the ground. A written eulogy in
memory of the dog is framed in glass on the
face of the post. The grave is kept in excel-
lent condition and in summer attracts the
attention of passengers in passing trains,
being a-bloom with ﬂowers.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 132

course, is whether the will of the majority
of the people on a moral question is to
be annulled by a minority. If that can be
done in Massachusetts, then the Initiative
and Referendum are a farce and should
be removed from the State Constitution.

A referendum is now in process of being
attached to this latest amendment to the
trapping laws. The humane societies must
ﬁle 10,000 signatures of voters to a peti-
tion not later than September 10. This
will be done, and next November the peo-
ple of the whole state will have an oppor-
tunity to ballot on the question. Until the
petition is completed by ﬁling the 10,000
signatures, the form which the question is
to assume on the ballot will not be known.
If the question comes on the repeal of the
amendment, the humane forces will have
the “Yes” side; if on the acceptance of
the amendment, then they will have the
“No.” They will be amply instructed as
to whether to vote “Yes” or “No” in due
time. The main thing is, if we win then
the original Humane Trapping Act is re-
stored to full force.

Lines on a Popular Enter-
tainment

EDITH FRANKLIN WYATT

Lion, once a fable’s king,
Now a slave, shown in a ring,
How I hate to see your pride
On a ball or barrel ride.

Leopards, panthers, cougars wild,

I hate to watch you grouped in mild,
Dull and senseless “pyramids,”
Standing as the prodder bids,

While humans, in a purblind leisure
Gaze upon this as a pleasure,—

Like to see your splendors shamed,
Like to see your freedom tamed,

bike to see your powers shorn,

All your instincts crushed and mute,
While you move through tasks forlorn
Such as morons think are “cute,”
While many—not of cynic mind—
Often say these tasks are kind;

That tigers do their stunts absurd
To win the trainer’s pleasant word;
Panther, lion, puma, cougar

Act for love and lumps of sugar,
Though whispers rise from skeptic lips—-
“Then why do trainers carry whips?
“In shows by Light and Sweetness run,
“Why does a trainer need a gun?”

“Tiger, tiger, burning bright

In the forests of the night,”

How I wish that you were there,
And not caged here, beneath the stare
Of stupid myriads in this land,
Where, docile to a keeper’s hand,
You’ve learned to cower on a stool,
Or ring a bell and play the fool,

In misery, while whips are cracked,
Through some inane and wretched act,
And, as when gladiators died,
Tyranny is gloriﬁed.

Such things once happened in a State
Beginning to degenerate.

In days when Rome declined and fell,
This it was men liked so well

-To watch life tortured in a show.

So Gibbon said. He ought to know.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Wild Doe Adopts Calf

EDWARD J. TUCKER

TORIES of motherly love never fail

to ﬁnd a response in the hearts of men
the world over. And when such tales con-
cern parent animals and their young, there
is a certain wistfulness abOut them that is
irresistible.

The following curious story of the ma-
ternal instinct in animals is told by A.
McDonald, who has a farm not far from
North Bay, in northern Ontario. The tale
is curious because it presents an odd study
of motherly protection on the one hand,
and parental neglect that is rare among
animals, on the other.

A young calf disappeared from McDon-
ald’s farm shortly after its birth. For
some reason or other, its mother had shown
a strange indifference to her offspring from
the very beginning, having come home to
the barn without the calf on the day it
was born. McDonald, knowing of the birth,
had to bring the calf in himself.

Upon discovering that the calf was
missing, he at once began a search. After
spending four days hunting for it, he ﬁ-
nally found it in the care of a wild doe.
Though frightened at his approach, the
doe would not leave the side of the young
calf, which did not seem to share its fear
of men. The deer had adopted the neg-
lected calf and was jealously protecting
it. The calf seemed to be thriving and
was loath to leave its foster mother. It
was with great difﬁculty that it was secured
and brought home. Now, it seems that in
addition to the calf, McDonald will have
the doe in constant attendance—though at
a discreet distance—until the calf is full-
grown.

Read Jack London’s “Michael Brother of
Jerry,” mailed, post free, to any address
upon receipt of price, 75 cents. THE JACK
LONDON CLUB is built on it. Will you
join it? No dues. 180 Longwood Avenue,
Boston.

Another Case of Cruelty
THOMAS RODNEY

HEY named him “Diogenes,” because he

lived in a barrel. But unlike the cynic
of long ago, this poor chap was unable to
talk. If so, he would have pleaded for
death, for freedom—anything but the per-
secution of being chained.

Oh, they meant well! They proffered him
cake and candy. The children teased him
with a stick because he had
no appetite.

He grew thinner day by
day. Spring merged into
summer and torrid heat.
The poor fellow cried and
struggled. With fall and
the ﬁrst ﬂurries of snow
he became more quiet. The
smart masters thought
he was growing domesti-
cated.

But one morning in
November they found him
sleeping. He had been
released by the Merciful
Hand.

Sept. 1934
If You Must Shoot

L. E. EUBANKS

HIS fall, as usual, many men will shoot

ducks. Perhaps I should say shoot
at them; for the fact is that many so-called
hunters can’t hit anything of much less size
than an elephant, even with a shotgun.

It is often lamented that so many un-
skilled automobile drivers are granted
licenses; but we should do something, too,
about this matter of letting poor marks-
men handle weapons. Surely hunting is
barbarous enough at best, and it becomes
unthinkably hideous when the hunters sel-
dom or never kill their victims outright.

My belief is that every person who de-
sires to hunt should make himself a good
shot, by practice on inanimate targets, be-
fore he ever shoots at animals or birds.
Those who have any consideration for the
rights and feelings of our dumb friends
should so qualify themselves voluntarily
(if they intend to hunt), and those who
would ignore the qualiﬁcation should be
forced by law.

It’s a serious thing indeed—allowing
just any and every fellow who can buy a
license to go forth and cripple animals.
Not always are they intentionally cruel,
they don’t intend to cripple when they ﬁre.
But it requires more than good intentions
to place the killing shot reliably.

If you must shoot, be a good shot. If for
any reason you cannot acquire skill in
shooting, then drop the whole detestable
business of hunting. Even with commend-
able scores on inanimate targets, you may
be far from successful as a hunter; for the
conditions, particularly the psychology of
the thing, are vastly different when the
targets are live creatures. Considering how
little there is to be gained from skill with
ﬁrearms today—to say nothing of their
dangers to life and the effect of hunting
upon character—I cannot understand why
ﬁrearms appeal to anyone.

There is not a single desirable result to
be obtained from hunting that may not be
gained (usually in fuller measure) from
some other sport or pastime. Camera work
or golf will take you into the open air, the
woods and ﬁelds; and billiards, any form,
is better eye training than shooting a gun.

I can’t believe that ﬁrearms have any
legitimate place in present—day life, except
in the hands of ofﬁcers. Even if I were
blind to the rights of dumb animals, I still
recall too vividly that dreadful war and the
part played by ﬁrearms. We smelled enough
gun-powder then to last for eternity!

 

_‘.'£

...-s-




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 180
The Christmas Kine

LAURA SIMMONS

And all for us alone—the holy sight!
Surely the kind God chose us from the

rest——
His lowly beasts about the manger
pressed——
Beneath the towering Star, that gracious
night!

He knew we were not wise; we could not
bring
Fine gold and myrrh unto the stable-bed,
Nor sing for joy of his great Gift out-
spread-—
The little Jesus, Lord of everything.

Yet, ere the shepherds came, or anyone——
It was for us, his humble kine, to greet
With low of wonderment and gentle

bleat

The maiden Mother and her wondrous Son.

Oh keepers of the flocks! Did we not share
The cradle of the Lord? All dumb and
poor—
Were we not touched with glory in that
hour—
Worthy forever of your sheltering care?

Give thought that he so loved us, too—-
your King.
Give heed—rememb ering—rememb erin g !

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Wild Beast Fights

Film Ban If There Is Cruelty

NY ﬁlm incident depicting a ﬁght be-

tween two animals and in which cruelty
is involved will not be passed for exhibition
in this country, says The Daily Mail, Lon-
don, England. Giving this reply to a question
in the House of Commons recently, Sir
John Gilmour, Home Secretary, said the
Board of Censors was giving particular at-
tention to all ﬁlms produced abroad. Mr.
Gre-nfell had drawn Sir John’s attention to
ﬁlms “showing wild beasts spurred and
driven into combat.”

Mrs. Jack London

Many of the members of the Jack London
Club will regret to learn that Mrs. Char-
mian London, widow of Jack London, met
with a very serious accident on her ranch
last August when her horse tripped over a
hidden wire, throwing her over its head. The
horse, weighing 1,150 pounds, fell rolling
over the prostrate woman. Her many
friends, however, are rejoicing to know that
her will to live started a phenomenal recov-
ery and she is now able to get around.

Spain’s Nativities

Christmas Eve in Spain is called the
Good Night, says a writer in the Young
Catholic Messenger. In-
stead of a Christmas tree
every Spanish dwelling,
and the Churches, have a
reproduction of the scene
at Bethlehem, called a
“Nativity.” These little
images are large or small,
crude or richly designed,
according to the means of
the possessor. In poor
homes they may be made
of cardboard and colored
paper, with pebbles and
sand for the ﬂoor of the
stable. In homes of the
wealthy, the ﬁgures of the
Virgin and Divine Babe,
St. Joseph, and the others
who shared in that mir-
aculous event, are costly
works of art by the great
masters. Some of the “Na-
tivities” are more compre-
hensive than others, and
depict, besides the scene in
the stable, the shepherds,
warming themselves about
a ﬁre on the hillside while
their ﬂocks browse nearby,
and the approach of the
Magi over a rocky road
made of cork and a river
fashioned of glass, while
timid animals peep at
them from the under-
growth and perhaps a rob-
ber hides among the rocks
as they pass. There is
much visiting back and
forth to see each other’s
“Nativity,” until midnight
when the populace goes
reverently to mass.

 

Dec. 1931;
Abolish Hot-iron Branding

FRANK H. CROSS

0 those who wonder why the torture-

chamber methods of branding cattle
have persisted through the ages, the news
that a chemical is displacing the branding-
iron will be good news, though it has been
a long time coming. For long years cattle-
men have thought that the only practical
method of placing a permanent mark of
ownership on cattle was to brand them with
a hot iron, because the hair will grow over
any other kind of mark, but not on the scar
left by the branding iron. This is no longer
true, however, for during the past year
a new method has gained favor on west-
ern ranges. A chemical compound which
removes the hair and prevents it from re-
turning is being used instead. Thus, a
brand of any design can be applied by
simply removing the hair.

Since early days when cattle grazed on
unfenced ranges, it has been the custom to
identify every animal with a mark peculiar
to the owner and used by him alone. The
unmarked animal was known as a “maver-
ick,” and if lost or stolen, ownership could
hardly be proved. Even now, when free
ranges have pretty generally given way
to fences, the brand is still considered
necessary.

. As the new branding liquid becomes
better known, it is likely that the use of the
branding-iron will be curtailed or abolished.

It costs about one cent a head to brand
chemically, but since it saves a lot of labor,
it is thought that the new method is
cheaper than the old.

Tests of the branding ﬂuid were made by
the Montana. State College and the United
States Department of Agriculture Aco-
operating, and it was found that the reign-
lar ﬁre-irons may be used to apply the
branding paint if the iron is one-fourth of
an inch or more wide. For best results
the temperature at time of application
should be above 70 degrees. In low tempera-
ture the ﬂuid is stiff and difﬁcult to work
with.

A paper on the subject by I. M. C. An-
derson, livestock specialist, Montana Exten-
sion Service, in collaboration with Ross
Miller of the Montana State College, ex-
plains that “the use of a red-hot iron for
burning designs to signify ownership on the
hides of western cattle and horses is a prac-
tice which has developed with the range
livestock industry. Objections to the method
are, damage to the hide for leather and pain
to the animal. A trade-marked paint-like
preparation recently put on the market
gives promise of a change in the old
method.”

As explained, the branding paint has been
patented and can be secured at almost any
drug store.

More friends are needed to endow stalls
and new kennels in the Angel! Memorial
Animal Hospital. Payments of thirty-ﬁve
dollars for a. kennel or seventy-ﬁve dollars
for a stall will insure a suitable marker
inscribed with donor’s name. Terms will
be given upon application to the Massa—

chusetts S. P. C. A., Boston.

 




 

 

 

Mar. 1934

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

II

Page 43

The American Humane Education Society

[[T is impossible adequately to set forth
anything like the total accomplish-
ment in a year’s work of the Ameri-
can Humane Education Society. Figures
may represent facts but they appear cold
without detailed explanation. When we
state that no less than 735,182 persons were
reached in the audiences, both juvenile and
adult, of our thirteen ﬁeld workers through-
out the country, we realize that it does not
convey much in the way of telling our story
of humane education, yet ﬁgures seem to
be the only concise way in which we can
put much of it here. We cannot emphasize
too strongly the vast importance of our co-
operation with the Parent-Teacher Associa-
tion, national, district and local, and, to a
lesser extent, with other educational and
philanthropic organizations with whose
ofﬁcers we are in constant correspond-
ence. In summing up the year’s work of
our various representatives, only the high
lights here and the-re can be given, as to
present any adequate summary of each one
would mean repetition of the same activi-
ties, for all are talking in schools, all are
giving addresses before various adult or-

ganizations, and all are performing, each
In his own territory, other very similar
tasks.

The Band of Mercy

The organized Band of Mercy, after more
than ﬁfty years, still appears to be one
of the most effective ways to promote hu-
mane education. These Bands are usually
in schools, sponsored by the teachers. More
than 7,000 were reported in the twelve
months, of which about 1,100 were in Massa-
chusetts. The latter represent the work
of Miss Maryott whose entire time is de-
voted to that state. In 1933 she visited
schools in 15 different towns, including sev-
eral of the larger cities, where she gave
188 talks, usually with lantern slides. More:
than 40,000 children were thus pledged to
kindness to animals. The other 6,000 new
Bands represent many states, Syria, Bul-
garia, Argentina, Quebec and New Bruns-
wick. The total number of Bands organ-
ized to date is 198,869.

Other Work in the East

The vacancy caused by the death of Mrs.
Hall, who conducted our regular press bu-

 

MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.

Prosecuting Ofﬁcers in Boston

Telephone (Complaints, Ambulances) Longwood 6100
L. WILLARD WALKER, Chief Ofﬁcer

HARRY L. ALLEN DAVID A. BOLTON
HARVEY R. FULLER HOWARD WILLAND
WALTER B. POPE

County Prosecuting Officers
HERMAN N. DEAN, Boston
Middlesex, Norfolk and Plymouth
FRED T. VICKERS, Lynn Eastern Essex
WILLIAM W. HASWELL, Methuen Western Essex

THEODORE W. PEARSON, Springﬁeld
Hampden, Hampshire and Franklin

ROBERT L. DYSON, Worcester Worcester
WINFIELD E. DUNHAM, New Bedford Bristol

HAROLD G. ANDREWS, Hyannis,
Barnstable, Dukes and Nantucket

T. KING HASWELL, Pittsﬁeld Berkshire
Rest Farm for Horses and Small Animal Shelter,
‘ Methuen
W. W. HASWELL, Superintendent
Women’s Auxiliary of the Mass. S. P. C. A., 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston—MRS. EDITH WASHBURN
CLARKE, Pres.; MRS. A. J. FURBUSH, Treas.; MRS.
AGNES P. FISHER, Ch. Work Com.

Springﬁeld Branch—MRS. DONALD C. KIBBE, Pres. ;
MRS. AARON BAGG, Treas.

Winchester Branch—MRS. RICHARD S. TAYLOR,
Pres.; MISS BESSIE SMALL, Treas.

 

ANGELL MEMORIAL ANIMAL
HOSPITAL
and Dispensary for Animals

184 Longwood Avenue Telephone, Longwood 6100

Veterinarians

F. DAILEY, v.M.D., Chief of Staff
H. SCHNEIDER, v.M.D., Asst. Chief
F. SCHROEDER, D.v.M.

B. SCHNELLE, v.M.D.

O. MUNSON, v.M.D.

L. BLAKELY, v. M. D.

HARRY L. ALLEN, Superintendent

Springﬁeld Branch
53-57 Bliss Street, Springﬁeld, Mass.
THEODORE W. PEARSON, General Manager
Veterinarians

A. R. EVANS, v.M.D.
H. L. SMEAD, D.v.M.

QHPFP’E

 

 

 

 

 

SOME PROSECUTIONS MADE BY
OFFICERS OF MASS. S. P. C. A.
DURING THE YEAR

A trap-per was convicted for setting and
maintainmg traps for the capture of fur-
bearing animals which would cause continu-
ous suffering and were not designed to kill
at once or take animals alive and unhurt.
He was ﬁned $50.

N 0 less than twenty-ﬁve defendants were
summoned for failure to provide proper
and sufﬁcient food, drink and shelter for
their animals. Several cases were ﬁled; in
someprobation was given; others paid ﬁnes
rangmg from ﬁve to ﬁfty dollars.

A defendant who had the custody of ﬁfty-
seven calves was found guilty of transport-
Ing them In an unnecessarily cruel manner.
He was ﬁned $75. Two other cases of
cruelly overcrowding and transporting of
cows and calves upon motor vehicles re-
sulted in ﬁnes of $10 and $50. Overcrowd-
Ing fowl after being warned, two defend-
ants. were ﬁned $10 each.

Flve .drivers of motor vehicles who hit
and Injured dogs knowingly, subjecting
them to unnecessary cruelty and suffering
were found guilty in court. Four were
ﬁned $25 each, one $20.

A score Of offenders were convicted Of
worklng horses aﬂ‘licted with gall sores, and
for cruel beatings. Small ﬁnes were gen-
erally imposed.

One keeper and trainer of game-cocks was
arralgned in court and ﬁned $19 and costs.
Ten other persons, for being present where
preparations were being made for the exhi-
bitiﬁns of ﬁghting birds, were ﬁned $10
eac .

The prosecuting ofﬁcers of the Society
are advised and instructed that it is al-
ways better, when possible, to convert men
from cruelty than to convict them in courts,
and that the test of a Society’s usefulness
is not the number of its prosecutions, but
the number of acts of cruelty it is able to
prevent.

L. WILLARD WALKER, Chief Oﬁ‘icer

reau from Boston, was not ﬁlled till March
1, when Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke took
up the work, with an ofﬁce at headquarters.
She has been for years the efﬁcient presi-

'dent of the Women’s Auxiliary of the

Massachusetts S. P. C. A. and immediately
succeeded in supplementing this work by
able contributions as a speaker and writer
in the humane education ﬁeld. For the
press bureau she sent out more than 5,000
slips and about as many leaﬂets and cards,
while more than 1,500 letters and cards
were written. She attended 169 club meet-
ings, at many of which she gave addresses,
and made 13 radio talks. Miss Gilbert de- '
vote-d the year to the cities, towns and rural
sections in Vermont, with remarkable re-
sults, organizing nearly 1,000 Bands of
Mercy in 433 different schools. She gave
650 talks, mostly in schools, in 145 towns.
Mr. Wentzel, working from Pittsburgh, Pa.,
reached about 40,000 children and distribu-
ted 77,000 pieces of literature. He intro-
duced a bill in the Pennsylvania legislature
to prohibit the cropping of dogs’ ears.

In Southern States

Three white workers and three colored
workers comprise our staff in the South,
where perhaps as great progress is being
made in humane education as anywhere in
the country. Miss Finley, though handi—
capped by a period of illness and also by
the early closing of schools in Virginia in
the spring, gave more than 300 school talks,
resulting in 400 new Bands of Mercy com-
prised of about 20,000 children. Mr. Burton
traveled 27,000 miles in Tennessee and ad-
jacent states, reaching 56,000 people, both
juvenile and adult, in his school talks and
other addresses. Mrs. Weathersbee organ-
ized a humane society in Georgia, planned
Be Kind tO'Animals Week celebrations in
ﬁve cities, gave instruction in humane edu-
cation in summer schools, in addition to 427
regular talks, and co-operated with others
in seeking a chair of humane education in
the State University.

Mr. Lemon, working among the colored
people of Virginia, visited 205 schools,
gave 51 addresses before adult audiences,
and held an exhibit at the State Teachers’
Association besides speaking at the summer
school at Hampton Institute. Mr. Carroll,
working principally in South Carolina
though occasionally visiting other states,
found his way into 500 schools, addressed
a hundred adult gatherings, distributed
more than 15,000 pieces of literature, and
altogether reached 137,500 persons. The
third colored worker, Mr. Barnwell, Oper-
ates in Texas and gave more time than
usual to rural districts. He attended many
religious conventions and associations, giv-
ing 252 addresses, in addition to the regular
school work, and was responsible for a very
successful celebration of Be Kind to Ani-

mals Week.

In the Middle and Far West
Mrs. Toomim in Chicago ﬁnds humane

education work growing by leaps and
bounds. Governor Horner endorsed the Be

 

 




 

“ah-m ,~. .‘ L

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

July,193/+ OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

 

 

  

%~;
7 — )2:

“ J4 n/ J,

 

 

 

    
    

   

T? v /
\ewj

. ,, r.
x‘ '.\xx

/
_' ﬂ%_l7 7/, /~ A
,hiﬁérégirggee

...__ _ \\i\\\$

A Bird That Broadcasts

A True Story About a Mockingbird
NELL YEARGIN MORGAN

FAMILY of mockingbirds has lived around our home for

two years. One spring they had their nest in one of the
elm trees in our garden. The next year they became a little
friendlier and built it in the dense madeira vines on the trellis
near the house.

When cold weather cam-e, we thought all the birds would
leave our garden but we were! mistaken. One of the mocking-
birds stayed all winter. He lived in the tall, thick shrubbery
whichgrows close to the house. We could see him dart back
and forth after food and water. In the coldest weather he
would come to the dining—room window and peck on the glass.
We supposed he was ordering more food, so we put crumbs and
seeds on the window-sill for him after he began pecking.

On Christmas Day our mocking-bird had a real. Christmas
dinner for we put a tiny bit of every kind of food we had on
the window-sill for him. He liked it, I suppose, for he stayed
near all winter.

Our mockingbird did not sing in the cold‘weather; but on
warm, sunny days he sings. with all his. might. It seems as if
he is trying to thank us. for the attention we gave him through
all the cold and rainy weather.

His favorite place to perch when he sings his lovely song is
on the top of our chimney. When we are in the living—room and
he is singing on the chimney-top, the sound comes right down
to us through the ﬁre-place. We think that he wants to broad-
cast his thanks to us and we imagine he thinks that the chimney
is his microphone and the ﬁreplace, our loud speaker.

Why “Sally” Sleeps in the Flag
BUSY BEE

RAPPED in an American ﬂag, a little canary lies
buried at Spangler, in Pennsylvania, and a white cross
over its. grave bears this inscription:—
“Her-e lies Sally, a good canary, who gave her life to save
the lives of professional and volunteer rescuers in the Reilly
mine disaster, November 6, 1922.”

It may seem strange that a little canary should be able to
save life; but in a mining disaster canaries play a very import—
ant part. The United States Bureau of Mines has rescue cars
in the various mining districts ready to rush to the scene of
disaster, and each car is equipped with about six canaries. The
canaries are used as tests for the poisonous gas, carbon mon-
oxide, or white damp, as they are particularly sensitive to it.

When the rescue party explores the shafts they take canaries
with them, and when a canary drops senseless it is a warning
to the party to use their oxygen apparatus. As a rule the
canaries quickly recover when removed into fresh air; but Sally

'had evidently received too big a dose of the poison and died.

Hence the little white cross with the inscription.

When you go to get a drink,

Do you ever stop to think

That dogs and cats, and squirrels, too,
Get just as thirsty, dear, as you?

ETHEL FAIRMONT

/; “A
9 / Iv ‘
a. ”remake/rem

'4". 4". - gﬁ ,' l‘,‘ ,
\. It“ \ ‘
if i ’ 1" I, :7
r' I, /‘
33'” / ‘j 4—
( — .
‘ l
. // ‘

 

A 4 o ,_ / / . / 11-. .
.11, %§é/6{%W ”y; L ," 2 r
X ‘Jt‘

 

' W ‘3' " l
‘ ' \ . .2. A . “a t; I

.I" , / 1

__ ' ’__ \

. " ~ /

/ I
. z, \ \
— ‘ ' . C/ _
\

r

K LN

My Lover

CARRY JOY

My lover’s arms are round my neck,
His breath is in my hair,

And yet he speaks no love to me,
He never calls me fair;

He uses no endearing words,
But when he looks at me,

The purring love-light in his eyes,
I cannot help but see.

And when I whisper soft to him,
And stroke his hair so sleek,

He answers, by just rubbing
His nose against my cheek.

Now what think you of a lover
That would do a thing like that?
But wait—don’t judge too harshly,
My lover is—my cat.

Do not expose your pets to unusually loud noises or to danger
from explosives on July 4.

 

TRUE LOVERS

   

 

 




 

M ar. 1934

OFFICERS OF THE MASSACHUSETTS
SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION
OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS FOR

1934

President

DR.FRANCH§H.ROWLEY

Vice-Presidents

CHARLES G. BANCROFT
WILLIAM DANA ORCUTT

Honorary Vice-Presidents

His Excellency Joseph B. Ely, Governor of
Massachusetts

His Honor Frederick W. Mansﬁeld, Mayor
of Boston

Ex—Governor Channing H. Cox, Boston

Adams, Edward S., Fall River

Appleton, Francis Henry, Boston

Appleton, Miss Maud E., Boston

Bagg, Mrs. Aaron 0., Holyoke

Bartlett, Miss Bess B., Lynn

Bartley, Hattie C., Waltham

Baxter, Hon. Percival P., Portland, Me.

Beardwood, Mrs. James, Dorchester

Booth, George F., Worcester

Burgess, Thornton W., Springﬁeld

Burns, Bishop Charles Wesley, Boston

Caldwell, Miss Louise W., Dorchester

Chambers, Mrs. Percy, Williamstown

Cheever, Mrs. G. J ., Springﬁeld

Clarke, Mrs. Edith Washburn, Boston

Conant, James B., Pres. Harvard Uni-
versity

Converse, Mrs. Costello C., Boston

Cousens, John A., Pres. Tufts College

Crossman, Howard A., Hampton Falls, N .H.

Cummins, Thomas K., Milton

Ellis, Mrs. Dwight W., Springﬁeld

Endicott, William, Boston

Fitzgerald, Hon. John F., Boston

Forbes, J. Murray, Boston

Freshel, Mrs. Curt P., New York City

Gallagher, Rev. Louis J., Pres. Boston Col-
lege

Godbeer, George H., Fitchburg

Griswold, Lyman W., Greenﬁeld

Kent, Daniel, Worcester

Lowell, Dr. A. Lawrence, Boston

McIntire, Hon. Charles J ., Cambridge

Park, J. Edgar, Pres. Wheaton College

Parker, Hon. Herbert, Lancaster

Peabody, Philip G., Dorchester

Peirce, Miss Charlotte, Boston

Pendleton, Ellen F., Pres. Wellesley College

Sears, Miss E. R., Boston

Stearns, Charles H., Brookline

Thayer, Mrs. Ezra R., Boston

Upham, Miss E. Annie, Dorchester

Webster, H. S., Brookline

Woolley, Mary E., Pres. Mt. Holyoke Col-
lege

Younglove, Wm. K., Fitchburg

Younglove, Mrs. Wm. K., Fitchburg

Treasurer: ALBERT A. POLLARD
Secretary: GUY RICHARDSON

Counsel: PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY
& STOREY

Executive Committee
DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY (ex-Oﬂicio)
CHARLES G. BANCROFT
STANWOOD K. BOLTON
HON. CHANNING H. COX
WALTER M. KENDALL
WILLIAM E. PUTNAM

 

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Trustees of Permanent Funds

John R. Macomber, Chairman of the Board

Charles G. Bancroft, Vice-President of
United Shoe Machinery Corporation

Philip Stockton, President of First Na-
tional Bank of Boston

Directors of the Massachusetts Society for
The Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

Dr. Francis H. Rowley, President

William Dana Orcutt John R. Macomber

» Hon. Joseph A. Sheehan W. J. McDonald

Miss Dorothy Forbes Walter M. Kendall
Winthrop Packard Stanwood K. Bolton
Charles G. Bancroft Hon. Channing H. Cox
John R. Forgie Frank M. Hotchkin
William E. Putnam Philip Stockton

Mrs. Frederic A. Washburn

Honorary Members
'Miss Ann Vogt Barnett, Delta, Pa.
Miss Hattie C. Bartley, Waltham
Mrs. Margaret P. Behrend, Boston
Mrs. Theodore Chase, Boston
Mrs. Wilson Groshans, Aurora, Ill.
Mrs. Miles M. Hapgood, Springﬁeld
Henry B. King, Augusta, Ga.
Charles N. Morgan, Boston
Mrs. Walter B. Pope, Boston
Mrs. Jennie B. Powers, Keene, N. H.
M. Franco Riccabone, Turin, Italy

Active Life Members

Abercrombie, William H. Crane, Mrs. Francis V.
Adams, Mrs. Nancy M. Crocker, Mrs. Charles T.
Allen, Mrs. Linda W. Crocker, Mrs. Emmons
Alstrom, Mrs. Dorothy D. Crocker, Emmons
Ames, John S. Crocker, Miss Katherine
Anderson, Johan M. Crompton & Knowles
Andrews, Miss Frances Loom Works

Virginia Crossman, Howard A.
Appleton, Miss Maud E. Crossman, Mrs. Howard A.
Aronson, Harry. Crowninshield, B. B.
Atkins, Mrs. Charles D. Cummings, Miss Florence
Bagg, Mrs. Aaron C. L.
Baker, Mrs. Charles M.
Baldwin, Mrs. Anita
Balincourt, Comtesse

Lilian de
Bancroft, Mrs. M. H.
Bandry, George, M.D. Curran, Mrs. Maurice
Barnard, Henry F. Curtis, Miss Amy
Barnard, Miss Mary Alice Curtis, Mrs. Ben Aldrich
Bartholomew, J. C. Curtis, Miss Clara
Bartlett, Miss Bess B. Curtiss, Mrs. Frederic

Cummins, Miss Anne M.
Cummins, Miss Elizabeth

Cunningham, Mrs. Flor-
ence C.

Bartley, Miss Hattie C. Haines
Bates, Ruth B. Cutler, Mrs. Charles N.
Beals, Mabel E. Dane, E. B.

Beardwood, James Dane, Mrs. E. B.
Beardwood, Mrs. James Daniels, Mrs. Gertrude C.
Behrend, Mrs. Margaret Davis, Albert M.

P. Davis, Mrs. Kate K.
Bell, Mrs. Samuel Kent Davol, Miss Florence W.
Bemis, Frank B. Day, A. L.

Bolles, Mrs. Mary K. Day, Cordelia P. “Mem-
Boston Plate & Window orial Life Membership”

Glass Co. DeGogorza, Mme. Emma
Bray, Miss Ella W. Eames
Brown, Mrs. J. Frederick DeWolf, Charles E.
Burke, Mrs. Florence E. Douglas, Elizabeth
Burr, Mrs. Herman M. Dresser, Miss Celina L.
Burr, I. Tucker Drooker, Mrs. Minnie
Cabot, Mrs. Susan Dudley, Miss Sarah A.
Champlin, Mme. Ange- Eldredge, Mrs. E. H.

lina de Emerson, Charles H.
Chase, Miss Alice P. Endicott, Miss Katherine
Cheever, Mrs. Grace J. Endicott, William
Churchill, W. W. Ernst, Mrs. Harold C.
Clark, A. Frank Evans, Owen N.

Clark, Miss Elizabeth Ewing, Miss Amanda W,
Cochran, Mrs. Edwin Paul Farley, Dr. Wm. C,
Codrington, Mrs. Ethel M. Fay, Miss Sarah B.
Converse, Mrs. Costello C. Fearing, Mrs. George R.
Corliss, Miss Clara K. Fish, Miss Margaret A.
Couch, Franklin Lindley Fisher, H.

Craigin, Mrs. Louise Fiske, Miss Gertrude

Floyd, Mrs. Edward E.
Forbes, Mrs. Alice H.
Ford, Willis A.
Foss, Mrs. James 0.
Foster, Miss Fanny
Foster, G. Herbert
Fottler, Mrs. Jacob
Fowler, G. W.
Fowler, H. P.
Frothingham, Mrs. Louis
A

Garritt, Miss Elizabeth M.
Gay, Mrs. Josephine S.
Geiger, Mrs. Albert, Jr.
Gifford, Josiah H.
Godbeer, George H.
Goddard, Miss M. L.
Gray, Miss Elizabeth F.
Gray, Miss Ellen
Gray, Roland
Greenough, Mrs. Henry V.
Grinnel, Mrs. Susan B.
Grout, Mrs. Zira R.
Grozier, Mrs. E. A.
Hammond, Samuel
Harrison, Mrs. Geo. B.
Hathaway, Mrs. C. P.
Hemenway, Augustus
Hemenway, Mrs. Augustus
Hemenway, Mrs. Myles
Henderson, Mrs. H. P.
Hickey, Mrs. J., G.
Hickey, Miss Mary Moore
Higginson, Francis L.
Higginson, Mrs. Francis
L
Hill, Miss Ella A.
Hill, Haven G.
Hitchcock, John
Holmes, Mrs. Margaret
A. Ramsay
Hooper, Mrs. James R.
Horsford, Miss Cornelia
Hotchkin, F. M.
Hotchkin, William C.
Houghton, Miss Elizabeth
G.
Houston, Ada Bell
Howard, Frank A.
Howes, Mrs. Ernest
Hoyt, Mrs. Frank C.
Hughes, Miss Ada F.
Hunt, Miss Belle
Huntington, Mrs. Amy
Low
Hutchinson, Mrs. Mabel
Ingersoll, W. Fitch
Innes, Charles H.
Ivers, Miss Ella F.
Jackson, Mrs. Ann Gavitt
Jacobs, Mrs. F. W.
James, Ellerton
Kaufman, Mrs. Carl F.
Kidder, Nathaniel T.
King, Miss Caroline W.
Kinzle, Mrs. Japsey
Lockett
Kittredge, Mrs. John
Knowlton, Mrs. Wallace
M.
Krook, Mrs. Amanda J.
Lahey, Mrs. Frank H.
Langshaw, Walter H.
Lawrence, John S.
Lentz, Mrs. Eliza
Leonard, Mrs. Chas. H.
Loring, Miss Helen
Loring, Mrs. Homer
Lyman, Miss Mabel
Mabbett, Mrs. H. Earle
MacDonald, Mrs. C. L.
MacNevin, Miss Agnes J.
Macomber, John R.
Mandell, George S.
Mason, A. P., M.D.
Mason, Miss Nannie G.
Mayer, Richard
McDonald, Mrs. Wm. J.
McPherson, William J.
Mellor, Frank E.
Melvin, Mrs. Clara M.
Merrill, Sherburne M.
Milliken, Arthur N.
Milliken, Mrs. A. N.
Morse, Mrs. Susan A.
Munsell, Alex. E. 0.
Murray, Mrs. T. Morris
Newhall, Frederick H.
Niles, Irving Harris
Norcross, Grenville H.
Ogle, Mrs. Kate
Paine, Richard C.

Page .45

Paine, Mrs. Richard G.
Parker, Miss Eleanor S.
Parker, William A.
Paul, Frank
Peabody, Philip G.
Peirce, Miss Charlotte
Peirce, J. Gadget
Pfaif, Mrs. Charles
Phelps, Mrs. Frances
Phillips, Mrs. Charles
E. H.
Pike, Mrs. Frank B.
Pope, Mrs. Walter B.
Porter, Miss Frances R.
Pratt, Mrs. Edmund T.
Pratt, L. Tyler
Putnam, Miss Florence N.
Queensbury Mills, Inc.
Quincy, Mrs. H. P.
Rea, Charles S.
Rich, Miss Alice
Richardson, Mrs. Charles
F

Riley, Charles E.

Riley, Miss Mabel Louise

Roberts, Paul B.

Robertson, Mrs. M. W.

Robinson, Forrest

Robinson, William A., Jr.

RockWell, Mrs. C. P.

Rogers, Bradlee

Rountree, Mrs. H. H.

Rowe, E. J.

Rowe, Mrs. E. J.

Sampson, Mrs. R. deW.

Schaltenbrand, Miss E. L.

Schwarz, Richard

Sears, Miss Eleanora Ran-
dolph

Seggwick, Mrs. Lydia C.

Selfridge, Mrs. G. S.
Shapleigh, Amelia
Shaw, Samuel
Shepard, Harvey N.
ias, Mrs. Alice E.
Silsbee, Miss Alice M.
Silsbee, Mrs. George S.
Simonds, Otis
Singleton, Mrs. Annie M.
Sisco, Mrs. Claire C.
Smith, Mrs. Ida A.
Snow, Miss Louise
Spaulding, Mrs. Harriet M.
Spring, John C.
Stearns, Charles H.
Stewart, Miss Gertrude M.
Storrow, Mrs. James J.
Jr.
Symmes, Mrs. Henry W.
Taylor, Mrs. John Phelps
Thayer, Mrs. E. R.
Thissell, Mrs. Gertrude M.
Thompson, Miss Mary
Helen
Thorn, Mrs. Mary
Thurber, Mrs. C. H.
Tilton, Joseph B.
Tolfree, Edw. R.
Tower, Miss Florence E.
Travelli, Mrs. Charles I.
Twombly, John Fogg
Underwood, Miss Mary R.
Underwood, Miss Sophia
A

Upham, Miss E. Annie
Valentine, Mrs. Grace E.
Von Kieﬂ’er, Baroness
Walker, John B.

Ward, Miss M. DeC.
Waterman, Mrs. Charles H.
Watkins, Miss Emma C.
Webster, Ruth E.

West, Miss Edith E.
Whitman, Hendrick H.
Whitney, Mrs. Geoffrey G.
Wilkes, Mrs. Madge
Wilkinson, Edw. S.
Williams, Mrs. E. S.
Wilson, Miss Helen L.
Winkley, H. W.

Wood, Cornelius A.
Wood, Miss Rosalind
Wood, Mrs. William M.
Woodman, Miss Mary
Wright, Mrs. Eva Edgar
Young, Mrs. B. L.
Young, Percy L.
Younglove, Mrs. Wm. K.
Younglove, William K.

, ‘_ ___.,___~_ ,__ 4‘ . . _4 ,4. M .4 44 A, w _—é;;—'——————w—_—_— ——"._-.
.W -. A. ,. , < # V... . . <4 ~u ,4 A
mm —

 

 

 

 




 

 

M ar. 1931;

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Page [,1

Sixty-sixth Annual Report of the President
For the Year Ending December 31, 1933

I

The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty "to Animals

0 issue to our members an annual re-

port is much like carrying coals to

Newcastle. As we have said in former
years, our magazine month by month tells
the story of our activities. Little seems de-
manded, then, but a summary of the year’s
work.

Statistics, when they tell the truth, can
tell a great deal but into statistics only a
small part of the service of our two So-
cieties can be put. The amount of water
issuing from a spring can be measured.
What that water means in health, strength
and general well being to the people to
whom it goes—how shall that be measured?
Through our workers in the schools of
several states of the Union, through our
magazine, our literature, the thousands of
personal contacts made by the representa-
tives of both organizations, and the service
rendered some 40,000 people annually by
our Hospital, there go out inﬂuences that
defy the most honest compiler of ﬁgures.

First, let us think for a moment of our
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals.

Work of Agents

There are sixteen of our men who have
the authority of State Police for the en-
forcement of all anti-cruelty laws. These
men now have automobiles and are able to
cover the state as in the old days was an
utter impossibility. And it is through the
outlying country sections where today the
need of our Society is greatest. Multitudes
of ’Massachusetts farms are now in the
hands of foreigners. Many of these people
know little about the proper care and treat-
ment of farm animals. Cattle and swine,
particularly, are constantly being neglected,
unsheltered, under-fed, and here is a ﬁeld
where not only cruelty must be stopped but
where education and advice are sadly
needed. By way of illustration, as I am
writing this report our ofﬁcer at Worcester

 

UNDERGOING X-RAY EXAMINATION

received a complaint that took him to an
out-of—the-way farm where he found a barn
with the roof badly leaking, about a foot of
water on the ﬂoor, a small quantity of wet
hay, one horse dead from starvation, 12
hens nearly frozen, their combs black from
frost, three yearling steers nearly dead
with hunger, and also 16 pigs in a starving
condition that had found shelter beneath
ledges of rocks. In the same mail the report
came from one of our ofﬁcers in the south-
eastern part of the state, in an out-of-the-
way section, of his ﬁnding 11 pigs nearly
dead from lack of food and proper shelter.

The Small Animal

“Tell me,” someone says, “what does your
Society ﬁnd to do now that there are no
horses?” Well, there are still over 40,000
horses in the Commonwealth, and nearly
5,000 in Greater Boston. During the past
year we have had a representative at the
auction stables where, weekly, horses are
brought for sale, to stop the sale of all
those unﬁt for work. We have rescued from
these stables and elsewhere and humanely
put to sleep 596, while 275 have been taken
from work. Complaints coming by telephone
or lettter or through personal calls at our
oﬂices to the number of 5,534 have been in-
vestigated. Many of these have had to do
with horses. At our watering stations in
Boston during the summer 25,281 times
horses came for a drink. Outside of the
stock-yards and abattoirs where 485,532
animals have been inspected by our ofﬁcers,
69,453 animals have been under examina-
tion .or inspection. (These ﬁgures have
nothing to do with the work of the Hos-
pital.) Small animals put to sleep number
14,710 and animals injured or disabled at
stock-yards put out of their suffering, 222.
The miles traveled during the year by our
ofﬁcers total 161,184. There have been 119
prosecutions for unpardonable cruelty and
109 convictions.

 

 

WAITING THEIR TURN IN THE HOSPITAL

Now as never before the. public is recog-
nizing the claims of the small animal. Thou-
sands of calls each year, and each year an
increasing number, come to us here in Bos-
ton and in Springﬁeld and at our Rest Farm
and Shelter at Methuen, and wherever we
have an agent, to investigate cruelty to
some dog or cat or to put it painlessly to
sleep. Nothing to do now that there are so
many fewer horses! Never has our Society
ministered to the welfare of so many ani-
mals as at present.

The Women’s Auxiliaries

Again we acknowledge with sincere ap-
preciation the splendid work done by our
three Women’s Auxiliaries, the one here in
Boston, the one in Winchester, and the one
in Springﬁeld. Their services to our So-
cieties and our Hospitals have been many.
Not only have they raised money especially
for hospital equipment but they have added
many new and valued friends to our roll
of members.

Medals for Hero Dogs

In co-operation with the Boston Post, in
which the accounts of their heroism were
published, the Society awarded one gold and
four silver medals to dogs who had, during
the previous six months, displayed unusual
intelligence in saving lives. There were
quite a number of candidates and the merits
of all were most carefully investigated by a
competent committee. The gold medal was
for successfully defending a lone woman
from intrusion of a robber, two of the silver
medals for saving other dogs from drown-
ing or from being struck by an automobile,
one for saving a little girl from ﬁre, and
one for saving a baby from drowning.

“On Behalf of Animals”

During the summer an entirely new ﬁlm,
in two reels, was made for the Society by the

 

 

 

 

 

 




55“; T‘Lfvm;

 

 

 

A;

 

“‘ A ‘ \‘ -*‘"——\

Sept. 1931;

Air-Cooling Systems
MORRY TANENBAUM

FEW years ago, the manufacturer of

a well-known automobile came out with
a new principle of cooling his engine. In-
stead of using water, he would use ordinary
air. Perhaps, he would have been very
much surprised to hear that his idea was
not new at all, that nature had been cool-
ing the motors of some of her" creatures with
air for many hundreds and thousands of
years before anyone even thought of the
automobile. Yet, that is a fact!

The birds have the highest temperature
of all the animals, ranging from 100 degrees
Fahrenheit to 112 degrees Fahrenheit. If
this temperature is to be maintained, they
must eat a great deal and the amount of
food that birds can consume is very well-
known.

However, if the health of the birds is to
be maintained, there must be some way of
reducing the temperature when it becomes
too high. In human beings this is accom-
plished by perspiration. When we perspire,
the evaporation cools us off. But birds can—
not perspire. If they did they would not be
able to ﬂy properly through the air. Even
if they could, the covering of feathers still
would not permit them to do so.

Instead of perspiring the birds cool their
motors, or their bodies, at the same time
they ﬂy by using the rapidly rushing air.
Just at the point where the air from the
bird’s windpipe branches out through sep-
arate tubes to enter the two lungs, there
is another tube which goes to a number of
air-sacs along the side of the birds. Some
of the sets of air-sacs run to the neck and
into the bones there. Another set goes into
the wishbone and sends branches into mus-
cles and hollow wing bones. Other sacs are
below the lungs and in the abdomen.

Large birds which do much ﬂying, such
as pelicans and albatrosses, have the air—
cooling system best developed. Its exact
function is not well-understood, but there
is no doubt that it cools off the bones which
would otherwise become heated with the
terriﬁc friction of the air.

A Militant Mixer

WILLIS MEHANNA

There is not a better mixer nor a more
cosmopolitan member of the bird kingdom
than the little slate—colored catbird. He goes
south in winter and returns north early in
the spring. He nests in the thorn—bushes
and the low, branchy trees, lays three or
four very blue eggs and, being hardy and
courageous, manages to overcome changing
conditions some of which are not conducive
to bird welfare.

His best virtues are his willingness to
ﬁght for other birds in his class and his
saucy noisiness if an intruder molests his
home or the homes of such neighbor birds
as robins, thrushes, bluebirds and kingbirds.
Different species of birds that are nearly
the same size and of similar habits often
ﬁght for each other and by numerical force
and co-operation drive away crows and the
Cooper’s hawk, thus saving their homes.
The catbird is a weed-seed eater and an
insect eater, yet he is fond of fruit. How-
ever, the well-informed farmer will not be-
grudge the catbird the cherries he eats.

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Page 133

A Sanctuary and Singing Tower

PETER GAY

Sanctuary and Singing Tower at Lake
Wales, Florida, came of that stuff of
which dreams are made. One dream, a hun-
dred years old, was that of a young man and

EDWARD BOK’S inspiration for the

his bride who found themselves at home on
a dangerous ledge of rocks along an island
in the North Sea, a few miles off the Dutch
coast. It was a grim place, barren of tree
or living green of any kind. And in the
expanse of turbulent sea there was not a
foot of ground on which the birds, storm-
driven across the water waste, could rest
in their ﬂight. Hundreds of dead birds
covered the surface of the sea.

“An ugly place is ugly only because it
is not beautiful,” argued the young man.
“I will plant trees.” And he did, more and
more every year for the ﬁfty years that he
lived there. Then one day when the trees
had grown tall enough to look over the
sea, spent and driven, the ﬁrst birds came
and rested in their leafy shelter. And
others came and found protection and gave
their gratitude vent in song. A pair of
storm-driven nightingales found the island
and mated there; and as dusk fell upon the
sea-bound strip of land, the women and
children would gather to listen to the even-
ing notes of the birds of golden song. And
the island became the Island of N ightingales.

And the wife of the young man who
planted the trees, said to her children and
to her children’s children: “Wherever your
lives may be cast, make you the world a bit

 

more beautiful and better because you have
lived in it.”

Another dream was born across the water
four hundred years ago. During the long
and devastating civil wars of Holland, and
in a time of siege and distress
unparalleled, a civic music of
rare beauty came into being.
It was the outcome and ex-
pression of Dutch character,
and also had its effect in
moulding that character, so
open alike to the solemnity
and to the happiness of life.
It was the outgrowth of wind-
mills and waterways and the
soft and misty outlines of town
hall and city gate and ancient
church, where carillons rip-
pled from old spires and sent
down from airy heights an in—
ﬂuence which lightened rou—
tine, and to happy occupation
added surpassing charm.

Bok combined the two
dreams to make his own dream
come true. He created a re-
treat of natural beauty for the
human—a Sanctuary, where
the modern pilgrim may seek
respite from the unrest of the
age, and in harmony and
beauty ﬁnd his loyalty to life
and to fellowman renewed.

He built also, in a planting
typically southern, a refuge
for birds. In addition to orig-
inal pine trees, he planted live
oaks, azaleas, Sabal palms,
magnolias, gordonias, an d
thousands of ferns and exotic
plants that offer shelter to
birds of varying needs; and
berry bushes of all kinds pro-
vide them with food. And
nightingales, the only ones in
the United States, add their golden v01ces
to the never—ending bird concert.

This garden provides a perfect setting
for the Singing Tower which, like a great
folk Spiritual, a symphony in stone, rlses
out of the soul and the soil of its people.
It is this purely racial genius ﬂowing
through a noble simplicity of outline, a use
of native building materials, and an expres-
sion in its art of the life around it, that
makes the Singing Tower an idiom of true
American architecture, and yet keeps it at
one with the long tradition of Singing
Towers.

In Aid of Draft Animals
in China

In order to check the rapid decrease of
livestock in China, due to ignorance and
cruelty, the nationalist government has
issued regulations for the treatment of
draft animals, whether cattle, donkeys,
horses or mules, according to a recent As-
sociated Press dispatch from Nanking. The
maximum load drawn by an animal must
henceforth not exceed one half of the
weight of the animal itself. A load carried
on the back must not exceed one third.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

June, 1934

I Would Not Wear a Coat
of Fur

MINA TITUS

I could not wear a coat of fur;
Sad ghosts would haunt me so.
I’d think of anguished, dying things
In traps on blood-stained snow.

I’d feel the grip of jaws of steel
0n freezing ﬂesh and bone;

I’d hear the frightened, helpless howls,
Then piteous, weaker moan.

I’d sense the parching thirst, that comes
To wild things in a trap;

I’d see the pain-foamed, licking tongue
Move slower lap by lap.

I’d feel its struggling agony
Through hours of endless length;

As deeper crimson grew the snow
And faster ebbed its strength.

I’d see the tortured mother’s eyes;
And pray her gasps might cease,
Or that the trapper soon would come

To bring her death’s release.

I’d think of tiny, baby things
She left all warm and sleek;
I’d hear their feeble, hungry cries
Then see them gaunt and weak.

I would not wear a coat of fur,
Whatever be the style,

Those little ghosts of tortured things
Would haunt me all the while.

Bird Was Good Samaritan

HE following story of the Good Samari-

tan among birds is told to Thornton W.
Burgess by Mrs. Henry M. Brown of Dana,
in the Union, Springﬁeld, Mass.

“During the bitter cold early in January,
I saw a starling in a barberry bush near
the study window. Evidently he had some-
where found water and taken a bath, for
his feathers were stiﬂ" and one wing hung
down and he seemed unable to close it.

“For ten minutes I watched him work-
ing over his feathers with his bill, but with
no sign of improvement. Then another star-
ling arrived, hopped about in the bush a bit
and ﬁnally settled on the branch beside the-
unhappy one. He nestled close to the droop-
ing wing, opened and spread one of his own
wings across the back of the other as a per-
son would use an arm.

“For fully 15' minutes he held the cold one
to him. I called my husband to look at them,
they seemed so unreal. Not only did No. 2
keep his wing over the other, but used his
beak to stroke the head and breast of the
other. I watched them until the good
Samaritan hopped away. No. 1 then drew
his wing into place, shook himself and be-
gan to hop about. Presently he ﬂew away.”

“He who injures animals that are not
injurious, from a wish to give himself
pleasure, adds nothing to his own happi-
ness, living or dead, while he who gives
no creatures willingly the pain of conﬁne-
ment or death, but seeks the good of all,
enjoys bliss without end. . . . The slaughter
of animals obstructs the way to heaven.”

Laws of Manu, V, 45-48

OUR DUMB ANIMALS
The Babe of the Woods

FREDERICK JAY ROGERS

HERE has much been said about the

so-called “one buck law.” The accom-

panying picture is a concrete example
of how it works. With the instinctiveness
of a killer, up goes the riﬂe at the ﬁrst
sight of a white ﬂag in the woods. A shot!
A yell! and from the dell with woe, a deer
lies bleeding in the snow. The killer believes
of course that he has killed a buck. He
watches for a while
from where he shot,
with ﬁnger on the
trigger as it gives
its last quiver of
life and then walks
over to discover from
a distance that he
has killed a doe. He
is disgusted and hur-
ries away, fearful
that a warden or a
real hunter has seen
him.

All is quiet now.
From a patch of
sheltering pine her
fawn looks out in
fearful amazement
for it has not before
heard the crack of
a riﬂe. It could not
comprehend w h a t
had created such a noise in the woods
which before was just a rhythm of tunes
played by the winds for if there was but the
breaking of a twig the mother took it bound-
ing away to some safe retreat. Now, the
fawn stood alone, trembling, every muscle
in its body was a-quiver. Where was its
mother? She had never left it alone before.
If it were a child it would cry out, but that
is not the way of the babes of the woods.
It stood breath—bound with wonder and fear.
Soon a midnight blackness came over the
earth, for at this time of the year night has
no evening and day no morning. Exhausted
and trembling the fawn lay down in its
tracks for it knew not what else to do. The
mystic wind murmured a melody to lull the-
lonely orphan to sleep. Soon the mother
of night held her torch above the sleeping
forest should the babe in the wood waken in
ﬁtful dreams of its mother and be not
frightened in its deep, dry-eyed grief.

Man must go on with his killing. Kill,
he thinks, “for the torso of the doe is tire-
less, and the loins of the buck are strong.”

Deep in the soundless grotto of pines, un-
til this day far from the sinister smell of
man, the fawn had made its bed in the dry,
powdery snow which it warmed with its
own body. The pine needles seemed stirred
with prayer for surely nothing dies but
that something mourns? The hunter who
had shot the doe slept peacefully until day-
light.

Fearful of the night the fawn lay on its
white couch until the ﬁrst golden rays of
the rising sun pointed the tops of the
towering pines on the hill tops. Tired and
hungry it sought the presence of its mother.
Stealthily and cautiously it peeked from be-
hind low branches of jack-pine. Alert and
listening, its small nostrils extended into
the wind to get a scent of its mother. Little
did it know of her fate.

 

Page 8’7

With growing hunger gnawing at its
Vitals, the fawn moved from place to place.
It was long past its feeding time, for it was
late dropped and not yet weaned. Tan and
white spots still appeared on its body al-
though it- was November. There it stood for
the ﬁrst time alone in a world where the
weak have an incessant struggle to eat and
avoid being eaten.

 

“THE FAWN NUZZLED THE UDDER OF THE MOTHER”

There was grace and youthful beauty in
its fur coat. The delicate and sleek lines of
its contour, the tan gold on its sides min-
gled with the white spots made by the tears
of its mother in travail blended beautifully
with sticks, leaves and golden sunlight so
that you may pass within a few feet of the
fawn who knew no other refuge than its
speed and not detect it.

After two days of wandering the fawn
brushed through the low branches of the
jack—pines, stopped to listen, then stole
along craftily a few yards farther to a piece
of slashing where tender shoots of moose-
wood grew. It had seen its mother nibble
these succulent shoots while the fawn played
with its shadow in the open sunlight.

Suddenly it spied the prostrate form of
its mother lying in the cold snow. Swift as
the winds it bounded to her. It nuzzled the
udder of the mother but found not the warm
life-giving nourishment as it had always
found before. Instead it found the mother
as cold as the ground on which it had lain
for the past few days. In utter despair it
cuddled close to her prostrate form, won-
dering, and waiting for the caresses which
it always received when it was for only a
few minutes out of her sight. It was more
pitiful to see this babe of the woods than
the tender, tearful smile of a human mother
who for the ﬁrst time gently pushes back
the longing, hungry lips of her as yet un-
weaned infant. .

By chance a conservation warden dls-
covered this tragedy just outside the. State
Ogemaw Game Refuge in Michigan in No-
vember 1933. Do you believe in protecting
the babes of the wood?

When a snake is getting ready to lose his
skin, he is unable to see for a few days,
does not eat, and is sluggish, but afterward
he is ravenously hungry.

—

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 110

(the ﬂash of merry

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

E. A. MARYOTT, State Organizer
PLEDGE

I will try to be kind to all living creatures and
try to protect them from cruel usage.

American Humane Education Society Wlll send
torleiiiry person who forms a Band of Mercy of thirty
members, and sends the name chosen for the 'Band and
the name and post-ofﬁce address of the presulent who
has been duly elected, special Band of Mercy literature
and a gilt badge for the pre81dent.

See inside front cover for prices of literature and
Band of Mercy supplies.

NEW BANDS OF MERCY

Six hundred and sixty-six new Bands of
Mercywere reported during May. Of these,
157 were in Illinois, 149 in New Hampshire,
111 in Rhode Island, 86 in Texas, 65 in
Massachusetts, 37 in Pennsylvania, 33 in
Virginia, 11 in Palestine, seven in Florida,
ﬁve in Tennessee, and one each in Colorado,
Michigan, Minnesota, North Dakota, and
Oklahoma.

Total number Bands of Mercy organized
by Parent American Society, 202,585.

What an Eight-Year-Old Did

N an interesting letter from Mrs. Myrtle

Gillespie, treasurer of the North Dakota
humane and Anti-Vivisection Society, we
learn that the ﬁrst Band of Mercy in Grand
Forks was organized last April by Master
Wood Remington, eight years of age. The
lad, who is a pupil in St. Mary’s school,
said that the idea came to him after read-
ing “Beautiful Joe,” and that his teacher,
Sister Aghna, allowed him to give a talk to
the children and enroll quite a number of
his friends in the Band. The enthusiastic
juvenile members will co-operate with the
senior society by looking after deserted or
unwanted kittens and puppies and trying to
teach people either to ﬁnd homes for such
pets or see that they are humanely de-
stroyed. Well does Mrs. Gillespie write:
“We feel that this little Band not only will
be of great assistance to us but that it will
be very valuable to the city and that par-
entls may well be proud of such boys and
gir s.”

 

A PATIENT POSE

 

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Hollywood’s B’Kind Clubs

HROUGH the interest of Frances X.
Kadow and Pauline Hoffman of Holly-
wood, California, working under the au-
spices of the Humane Education Club of Los

MISS PAULINE HOFFMAN (MISS
B’KIND) AND TWO MEMBERS OF
JUNIOR HUMANE CLUB, HOLLY-
WOOD, CALIFORNIA
Angeles, of which Mrs. Ernest Dawson is
president, B’Kind Clubs are being formed
among the children of the famous ﬁlm city.
These unique juvenile organizations are
patterned after the B’Kind Clubs instituted
by the original Miss B’Kind, Miss Nina
Halvey of Philadelphia.

In connection with Be Kind to Animals
Week this year the Humane Education Club
presented humane scrap-books to different
schools in Los Angeles and sponsored talks
to the pupils by Miss Hoffman on kindness
to every living thing.

From John S. Gilman, superintendent of
schools, Laconia, New Hampshire, we have
received the following about Miss Lucia F.
Gilbert, ﬁeld worker of the American Hu-
mane Education Society:

“We have never had a person come into
our schools who won the teachers and pupils
in the grades so thoroughly as Miss Gilbert
did with her splendid messages about our
animal friends.

“It was a great pleasure to have her
here and we know that her messages will
bring results.”

Our readers are urged to clip from “Our
Dumb Animals” various articles and re-
quest their local editors to republish.

July, 1934

The Frog with a Pcnchant
for Pink

KADRA MAYSI

Now, this is a tale which needs must avail
To make all zoologists think.

Have you ever heard of a frog who preferred,
To all others, the color of pink?

If you lend me your ear, I can soon make '
it clear: , .
For I found in my tulips one day
A little green elf who perched on the shelf
Of a rosy-hued blossom, a-sway.

Having knowledge that frogs love water and
bogs,
I carried him off to the pool
Where lilies and reeds and wampee and
weeds, '
In the shade of the willows were cool.

But my care was in vain, for he hopped
back again
By garden path, rosebud, and lawn;
And there, in the same tulip blossom of-
ﬂame,
He sat through the night and the dawn.

Though, in numerous cases, to various
places—
To shrubbery, sandbed, or fernr—
He was carried away, we would ﬁnd the
next day
To his pink couch he made his return.

From pale tulips or bright, fromred, yellow, .
and white,
From the purple, he turned; so I think
I can state without fear, and with conscience
quite clear,
That this frog had a penchant for pink!

A “ Pet” Period at Dinner
’ ERNEST L. THURSTON

N a certain family it is the custom to

set aside a certain portion of the dinner
hour as the children’s period. During this
time the children are encouraged to talk
about their day’s activities. Particularly
are they encouraged to talk about their
pets—a dog, a cat, a pair of rabbits, and
some goldﬁsh.

Not only do the children contribute really
entertaining anecdotes from time to time;
they personally gain much that is of edu-
cational value. The day is far past when
it was considered that the child should be
seen and not heard. This conversational
contribution to the meal is excellent train-
ing for the youngster in a social way. It
is excellent training in oral English. The
child is likely to talk the better because he
is talking about something in which he is
interested. In addition, in the effort to
bring to the table really entertaining bits
about his pets, the youngster’s observational
faculties are stimulated and sharpened.

Incidentally, too, the parents learn much
about their children’s attitude towards pets
and thus are able, in a perfectly natural
and unforced way, to correct wrong tend-
encies and to advise in the treatment of pets.

Try such a period in your home.

Be kind to animals every day in the year.




 

 

 

 

 

 

Sept. 1931;
The Tragedy of the West

BRUCE JENNINGS

Y father’s eldest brother is an old man

now, stooped and gray and weary
with the weight of many long years. As a
young man in his early twenties, he traveled
the West, sometimes on foot, sometimes by
stagecoach, sometimes on horseback, always
moving towards the setting sun until stop-
ped at last by the white-capped breakers of
the blue Paciﬁc. And then he turned east-
ward again and, like the good Yankee that
he is, did not rest until the Pennsylvania
farmstead had claimed him once more.

It was my uncle’s two-year Odyssey, and
he never grew tired in later life of relating
the strange adventures that befell him on
this trip. As a small boy I was his favorite
auditor, and I can remember sitting open-
mouthed at his feet while he told of the
great herds of bison that he had seen, and
of the antelope, and of the deer and the
elk, and of the bands of wild horses. For
the West was unfenced in those far-away
days, and the Indians did not delight in the
:‘aughter of the wild things that roamed
the plains and the valleys and the mountain
slopes. They took only what they needed for
food and clothing, and it was not until the
white man came, with his riﬂe and his rolls
of barbed wire, that the wild creatures
ceased to prosper.

When I came West as a youngster to ﬁnd
a new home in the midst of the Rocky
Mountains, it was with dreams of seeing
the herds of bison roaming the lowlands and
the deer drinking their ﬁll at mountain
streams just as my uncle had described
them doing. But I soon found that the
buffaloes had Vanished and that the deer had
become, in many of their former haunts in
the West, but the creatures of memory. To
me this was a profound disappointment, and
I soon came to the humiliating realization
that no living thing is so wantonly and
cruelly destructive of innocent and harm-
less lives as is man.

To those of us Westerners who love the
wild things of the earth, this West of ours
seems vast in its desolation and its loneli-
ness. It is empty of life. We may travel
for hours through great reaches of country
Without catching so much as a glimpse of

'a single living thing. The antelope have

vanished, the few remaining bison are being
conﬁned in parks, the bands of wild horses
have been slaughtered. The valleys of the
West are haunted with the ghosts of wild
creatures needlessly killed, and many of us
ﬁnd this almost unforgivable. The deer and
the elk, inhabitants of the mountains, have
not fared so badly and are now ”increasing
in numbers. But it is the buffalo and the
wild horse, which play so large a part in
the traditions of the West, that we most
miss.

In my own short life I have wandered
over several of the Western states and have
visited many of their least inhabited spots.
But I have never seen a buffalo except in
captivity, only once an antelope—and this
was but a ﬂeeting glimpse as the badly
frightened little animal vanished in the
brush, and but a few times bands of wild
horses free on the range. This is the trag-
edy of the West.

But perhaps our great plains may once
more echo to the thunder of passing herds
of bison and our valleys harbor the gentle

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

antelope, while bands
of wild horses once
again roam our des-
ert regions. For it
seems that many acres
of land are to be with-
drawn from cultiva-
tion under the govern-
ment’s crop reduction
program and the na-
tional forests are to
be more than doubled
in area. If this is
done, it seems prob—
able that the surplus
bison in our national
parks, as well as
other wild creatures,
will be placed in these
areas where, pro-
tected from those who
apparently delight in
slaughter, they may

 

Page 135

.........

 

be allowed to live in WILD BADGER, RIDING MOUNTAIN NATIONAL PARK,

peace and security.
This is a prospect

MANITOBA

 

exceedingly pleasing

to those of us who would like to see the
lonely and uninhabited sections of our West
once more harbor the wild life that hardly
knew an enemy until the advent of the
white man. It will seem a belated attempt
at restitution, some slight compensation for
the needless cruelty of the past.

Seoul

From this far off Eastern city comes an
interesting report of the work of its local
S. P. C. A. This active Society sustained
an almost irreparable loss in the death of
Mrs. Hobbs last April. She had been its
foreign secretary and treasurer since the
bginning of the organization. When one
thinks of the difﬁculties this Society has
in securing sufﬁcient funds for its work,
it is remarkable that it should have made
so excellent a record. It has treated some
2,000 animals during the past year that
needed attention, over 800 cases of cruelty
were reported by its inspector and the
police have interfered in 80 additional
cases. Over 150 times heavy loads have
been lightened for the sake of the draft
animals. We can only send our best wishes
to the faithful workers in Seoul.

Be Kind Today

Be kind today. There are many things to
do.

A word of cheer for those who battle
through

The many cares which come upon our way.

A gentle deed will ever live. Be kind today.

Be kind today. The angels look and smile

When loving words make someone’s life
worth while.

Sadness in this world would never stay

Before the drifting hours. Be kind today.

Be kind today. Who knows where we will
be—
One minute here, the next eternity.
Hours, like the roses, quickly pass away.
Don’t wait for the setting sun. Be kind
today.
LOTTIE C. FRAME

No Surrender
W. J. BANKS

O surrender” is the motto of the bad-

ger, doughty warrior of" the sandy
plains. When cornered, any self-respecting
badger will die ﬁghting to the last gasp.
A husky ﬁfteen-pounder is more than a
match for a good dog of twice his weight.
As a rule he will not look for trouble, but
few denizens of the prairies and desert
countries where the badger lives care to
take the risk of offending him.

The badger has often been condemned
for digging holes which endanger the limbs
of stock and safety of riders, but on the
whole his services to mankind outweigh his
bad points. For he preys upon ground
squirrels, gophers, ﬁeld mice, beetles, grass-
hoppers and other destroyers of ﬁeld crops.
He can burrow with extraordinary speed,
and can dig out his victims no matter how
quickly or cleverly they themselves are able
to travel through the earth.

So short are his sturdy legs, so wide and
squat and ﬂat is his heavy body, that the
badger looks for all the world like a tiny
bear who has been run over by a steam
roller. In his case nature has entirely sacri-
ﬁced speed for the sake of burrowing abil-
ity, and the badger is one of the few wild
animals which a man can overtake in an
open race. But once he reaches his hole
there is little chance to capture him, and
so fast can he dig that with a few yards
start he can even begin a new burrow and
disappear before being overtaken!

When taken young, badgers make clean,
faithful and affectionate pets, though they
never quite get used to strangers. Like
raccoons and other wild folk when tamed,
they are intensely curious and insist on inc
vestigating everything indoors and out.
Erecting his fur on end, the badger loves
to raid bees’ and wasps’ nests, the enraged
insects entangling themselves vainly in the
thick coat. When he has gorged himself on
the succulent honey, the badger rolls in the
grass to rid himself of the insects and is
immediately ready for more mischief.

“Of all the things you wear, your expres-
sion is the most important.”

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 62
@112 Iﬁanh nf £1112er

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

E. A. MARYOTT, State Organizer
PLEDGE

I will try to be kind to all living creatures and
try to protect them from cruel usage.

The American Humane Education Society will send
to every person Who forms a Band of Mercy of thirty
members, and sends the name chosen for the Band and
the name and post-ofﬁce address of the president who
has been duly elected, special Band of Mercy literature
and a gilt badge for the president.

See inside front cover for prices of literature and
Band of Mercy supplies.

NEW BANDS OF MERCY

Seven hundred and twenty-four new
Bands of Mercy were reported during Feb-
ruary. Of these, 224 were in Illinois, 178 in
Georgia, 119 in Massachusetts, ’76 in North
Carolina, 40 in Virginia, 33 in Florida, 23
in Pennsylvania, ten in South Carolina,
seven in Tennessee, ﬁve in Oregon, three
in Texas, three in Vermont, and one each
in California, Mississippi, and Washington.

Total number Bands of Mercy organized
by parent American Society 200,135

Aid for Retired Workers

We are receiving gifts to the American
Humane Education Society as a trust fund,
the interest to be used for the beneﬁt of
ﬁeld missionaries and others who have
spent their lives in promoting humane
education.

We will welcome your contribution to
this fund. Please make checks payable to
Treasurer, American Humane Education
Society, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston.

The Owl and the Cat

MABEL WORTH

ET me tell you of an odd animal friends

ship—that of an ordinary gray family
cat and an owl! These two friends live in
peace in the same country home in Cali-
fornia, sharing the sun in winter days, and
spending much time together.

“Billie,” the owl, was brought home from
the woods one day by Rob, the boy of the
family. The bird, either lost or deserted by
his parents, was found when quite young,
at the foot of a large tree.

Billie Owl was introduced to “Tige,” a
grown-up young cat. At ﬁrst Tige sat in
a digniﬁed fashion as if he were not inter-
ested in feathered creatures, and didn’t
wish to be bothered! But as Billie became
friendly with Rob and his sister and became
an interesting pet in the household, it
seemed that Tige made up his mind he had
better be friends too, or this new pet might
take his place in the family’s affections. So
gradually they became acquainted and a
strong friendship grew up between them.

Tige would protect Billie when a large
Plymouth Rock rooster, out of curiosity,
came too near to Billie and examined him
critically with his two sharp eyes. Quite
as if he were an older brother, befriending
the “little feller,” Tige spat at the rooster
and drove him away.

Often the family would ﬁnd the two
friends asleep together on the back porch
in the sun, Billie with his eyes tightly shut,
nestling up against the warm side of the
gray cat. ,

OUR

 

 

Clbriﬁlmaﬁs

[rum

Gyms ant Xerxes

metro

A Suggestion for Next
Christmas

Here are “Cyrus” and “Xerxes” and
their mistress. It is their Christmas card.
Cyrus and Xerxes were unusual men. Cyrus
and Xerxes are unusual dogs. It’s a little
early for it but they wish you all a Merry
Christmas next December.

Broken-hearted Dog

A few weeks before he died Lord Halifax
was heard to say to his Welsh terrier,
“Gyp,” as he stroked its head: “You and I
are getting to the end of the journey, old
man.”

Gyp died four weeks after his master.
He was 15 years of age. Lord Halifax was
94. Wherever his master went, there also
would go Gyp.

When Lord Halifax died the family sent
Gyp to the gamekeeper’s lodge to be cared
for. Gyp knew why. He refused food and
pined. All that could be done was done—
1n vain.

They have buried Gyp in the grounds
where for so many years he ran around the
feet of the master he loved.

—News Chronicle, London

 

“BILLIE” OWL AND “TIGE”

DUMB ANIMALS

Apr. 1931;
A Boy and His Dog

L. J. GISBEE

N the gathering dusk I saw them going

up the street together, a boy and his dog.
I often see them go together for they, are
constant companions.

The dog has been classiﬁed as man’s best
friend. He is surely the boy’s ﬁnest com-
panion. In the life of every n'ormal boy
there ought to be a dog. A dog to bound
into the bedroom in the morning with a
cheery “good morning” bark. A dog to sit
by with watering mouth when the in-be—
tween-meal cookie is being eaten, to jump
for ﬂying fragments and to sigh with his
master when the last crumb is consumed.
A dog to romp across the ﬁelds and over
the hills with a boy whose cheeks are red
and whose fee-t are ﬂeet. A dog to pull off
stockings at night. A dog to go with hang-
ing ears and dejected tail and backward
look of regret to the shed when bedtime
comes around.

For the man who, as a boy, had a'dog,
memories of the early years are brightened,
broadened and saddened. Today he may
own a greyhound or Boston bull, but nothing
can ever replace in his affections the per-
haps homely and mongrel companions of
boyhood days.

It seems only yesterday that after much
coaxing and begging, the Uncle consented
to transfer the ownership of that little black
and tan shoe-chewer. His legs were so short
that when he ﬁrst arrived he found it difﬁ-
cult to get over the door-sills. Then for
twelve years the life of that boy and dog
ran joyously together. Happy, carefree
years made more happy for the boy because
he had the dog; made more happy for the
dog because he had the boy.

All good friends must part,—-—well is re-
membered the day of parting; the attempt
to administer a stimulant for the worn-out
old heart; the pathetic, dog-like attempt to

, crawl off into the roadside bushes; the heed-

ing of the master’s last command, the slow
walk to the barn. There upon the straw
he collapsed and the boy watched his best
friend leaving him. For the last time he
whistled the old call. The old dog heard.
Ah, how he wanted to- respond; how he
wanted to spring to his feet with the old-
time vigor and follow that call acrosslthe
ﬁelds, but he just couldn’t. He
was an old dog dying. The
tail moved a bit ever so slowly
and stopped.

A ray of sunlight shone
through a dusty window. On a
branch of the treg by the gate
post a bird sang sweetly—a
boy wept. Who has ever known
the grief of a boy for his dog?

In the life of every boy
there ought to be a dog.

The shrew needs six times
its own weight of food per
diem, and it can only sleep for
half an hour at a time because
of the imperative necessity of
ﬁnding something to eat.

The skunk and porcupine
have a perfect means of de-
fense and do not need the wit
and cunning of other animals.

-...,. I-l-sz- ‘1.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

Mar. 1934

Spring Comes to the Pastures
JULIA VAN DER VEER

Spring comes to the pastures with lambs in
her arms,
With calves and colts to play in the sun,
With new green grass for the hungry
mothers,
And soft-voiced nights when the days are
done.

Spring comes in sorrow, for spring is a

woman,
In the warm sweet rains I have heard
her cry——
Would you have her be gay, and not griev-
ing at all

For the lambs and the calves that soon
are to die?

Catalo—a New Animal
JAMES MONTAGNES

THIRTY strange animals roam on pas-

ture near Wainwright, Alberta. Nei-
ther domestic cattle, nor buffalo, the new
cattle are a mixture of these two animal
species. Their name combines that of the

. original species. The catalo has been de-
veloped after many years of experimenting
by the scientists of the Canadian govern-
ment.

The catalo, which resembles both the
buffalo and cattle ancestors, was developed
to provide a sturdy type of cattle for
farmers opening up the northern agricul-
tural districts of the Canadian West. Or-
dinary cattle could not stand the cold, nor
ﬁnd their own forage in winter. Buffalo, on
the other hand, can live even in the North-
west Territories and forage in winter. The
cross breeding of the two species was
started a few years ago.

Difﬁculties were encountered, and it was
necessary to. ﬁnd an intermediary animal,
as the resultant animal from buffalo and
cattle often died at birth. In distant Siberia
was located the yak. Cross-breeding be-
tween domestic cattle and yak, and the
hybrid from this union with the buffalo has
been successful, and today the catalo is
thriving on the western plains.

The catalo has a hide which is similar to
that of the buffalo, heavy thick hair and
durable, making a warm cover. Those who
have had a chance to try catalo meat say
that it has all the meat qualities of beef
cattle. The catalo carries a greater percent—
age of ﬂesh on its back, just as the buffalo

does.
When enough of the

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Page 39

Do Animals Reason?

Extracts from an address by F. W. FITZSIMONS, Director, .Port Elizabeth Museum, South Africa.

AN ' knows that one day he will die

—or rather the time will arrive,

soon or late, when he will be com-
pelled to vacate his body of mortal ﬂesh.
N0 lower animal knows, or even faintly
realizes, that death of the physical body
is inevitable; or that individual life con-
tinues to function in other worlds of higher
vibration.

But, nevertheless, animals do reason, and
plan their lives accordingly. A common rat
sees one of its kind caught in a trap; or
killed by poison. The others, by a process
of reason, connect the traps and food with
danger and avoid them. They do more. The
knowledge is passed on to their progeny.
True, some of the latter are foolish enough
to pay no heed to the warnings of their
forbears. We see this going on around us
every day with our own species, only more
extensively than with the rat. In this re-
spect our intelligence is less than that of a
rat.

In the early days of South Africa’s colon-
ization by the white race, the wily jackal
was, comparatively, easily poisoned or other-
wise killed. Today it takes a very clever-wit-
ted man to encompass its destruction. With
all our much-vaunted intellect, the rat and
the jackal hold their own against us. Does
the jackal avoid our poisons and traps by in-
stinct? By no means. By experience it
gained knowledge; and counter-measures
were put into operation. In warfare we do
likewise.

Innumerable instances of reasoning in
wild animals could be cited, especially
among the man-like (anthropoid) apes,
baboons and monkeys. An ourang-outang in
a zoo made a skeleton key out of a bit of
wire, picked the lock of its cage and escaped.
A photograph of the incident, along with
details, may be seen in the monkey room of
the local museum. The elephant, too, is al-
most human in its reasoning powers. Yes,
indeed! Much more human than a few mil-
lions of the human race. We can readily
realize the object of the evolution of the
reasoning brain center. The main purpose
of the laws of evolution are to develop in-
telligence—reason. When highly unfolded
it gives Man free will and insight into the

future. But how arose instinct? It is as
the poles apart from reason. We may argue
that it was developed by the ancestors of
beast, bird, reptile, ﬁsh and insect doing the
same things in the same way for untold

 

 

 

animals have been pro-
duced at the experi-
mental station they will
be sent to various farms
in the northern fringes
of the western prov-
inces where they can
be reasonably expected
to play the same role
on these northern
farms that cattle play
on all farms on the con-
tinent, supplying milk
and meat, and to make
up for the loss of the
great buffalo herds of
the past that were so
wantonly sacriﬁced.

 

3'

 

THE CATALO IS PART BUFFALO, PART COW

generations. But this can be countered by
asking who taught the ﬁrst ancestor of the
duck to swim, ”the squirrel to store up food
for the winter, the beaver to build a dam
and winter. quarters, the bird to build a
nest, and the Bombardier beetle to shoot
poison gas into its enemy’s face?

Who or what made the angler ﬁsh grow
a ﬁshing rod out of the top of its head, and
a bit of appetizing bait on the end of it?
Who gave it a duplicate ﬁshing rod? How
did it learn to .get a good dinner by worm-
ing its body deep into the gray ooze of the
ocean’s bottom and then making an earth-
quake? It knows full well that the ooze is
full of tiny crustaceans of which ﬁshes are
especially fond. While these ﬁshes are
greedily devouring their prey the angler is
busy feeding on the ﬁsh in the murky water.
Who taught it to make a cave of its huge
mouth for the enticement of other denizens
of the ocean on which it preys? To make its
body resemble a rock it grows seaweed-like
processes of skin on its body, and it turns
the color of its temporary environment.

Has all this come about by chance; or
mutation, as zoologists term it? Such an
explanation does violence to one’s reason;
and yet large numbers of scientists, some
eminent in their profession, hold fast to
this theory because they will not admit that
life has a spiritual basis. They seek to ﬁnd
a physical explanation to all the phenomena
of nature. ,

There is design, a deﬁnite plan in all
forms of life, animate and inanimate. There
is no such thing as chance except an occa-
sional freak or mutation which does not
perpetuate itself or become a species. .

Life on earth was created from Slmple,
formless, single cell creatures by the slow,
but very sure, process we term evolution.
Back of this there are laws, and all forms
of life and their unfoldment conform to
those laws. Does a machine drive itself, or
a ship steer its own way across the oceans?
No; there are trained master minds in
operation, else chaos would ensue. So, too,
it is with Nature’s laws. But the Master
Minds are not on earth.

Our Representative in

Florida

The American Humane Education So-
ciety of Boston has recently appointed the
Rev. R. E. Grifﬁth of De Land, Florida, as
its ﬁeld representative in that State. Mr.
Griﬂ‘ith has held pastorates in Massachu-
setts for a number of years and is well
known for his work on behalf of animals.
In his writings and sermons he has given
frequent expression to his ardent Interest
in the humane treatment of animals and
the promotion of humane education.

I am opposed in principle to killing
animals. I wouldn’t have the heart to kill
anything. I am hoping for the day when
life will be regarded so- sacred that nobody
will go to war. Let’s cultivate kindness to
animals, and then we will refrain from
taking their lives, even for the purposes
of gaining nourishment.

GEN. UMBERTO NOBILE

 

 

 

 




 

 

Dec. 1931, '

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Page 181'

 

WHAT A CHRISTMAS PARTY—TWO FAMILIES

Character Building
NIXON WATERMAN

Yes! Buy your boy a dog! They say
’Twill make him grow more fond

Of animals: ’tween him and them
’Twill prove a tender bond.

And, “sicked on” by “his master’s voice,”
A mis-trained canine should

Be able to kill all the cats
Within the neighborhood!

Yes! Buy your boy a gun! He’ll learn,
As he shall roam afield.

To know the harmless birds and beasts
The plain and forest yield.

’Twill make him deem himself a man
And bring him much delight

(As it does grown-up boys) to kill
Most everything in sight.

Not every boy, with dog and gun,
Employs them to distress

God’s harmless creatures, and destroy
With cruel wantonness.

But now and then there is a youth
Who does things no boy should;

Let’s hope no such an one resides
Within your neighborhood.

But it is not the boy or dog
Or gun that brings distress
Into a peaceful neighborhood—
They do no wrong unless
The parents of the youth transmit
The careless training that
Incites the boy to kill the birds,
The dog to chase the cat.

A Heaven without horses and dogs must
be a poor heaven. We give so much of our
hearts to them. DONN BYRNE

Those who love dogs and other animals
will feel deep satisfaction in a compilation
of names of some of the great men of history
who have expressed their belief that human
beings will meet them in the future life.
Among such believers have been Luther,
Wesley, Cowper, Southey, Shelley and
Bishop Butler. —Post, Worcester, Mass.

A Scotch Terrier in Paris

ATrue Story
GIRALDA FORBES

T happened on a warm summer day in

Paris. I was standing on the curb of the
rue de Rivoli with my sister, waiting for a
bus to take me to the Cluny museum, and
near us stood a stout little Frenchman with
an Aberdeen terrier on a leash, also wait-
ing. The little dog sat on the pavement and
gazed mournfully in front of him plainly
uninterested in his surroundings. The bus
was long in coming and I made some re-
mark about it to my sister and she re-
plied, and then we noticed that the little
dog was straining at his leash and trying
to come over to us. The Frenchman moved
nearer to let him reach me, and Scotty sat
himself down close up to me on my foot and
leaned against me apparently well content.
It was so exactly in the manner of a lost
child who had at last found his parents that
I was deeply moved. We stooped to fondle
him and then we became aware that the
Frenchman was talking to us. He said:

“Speak to him, if you please. He wants
to hear an English voice.”

Then he told us the dog’s story. He be—
longed to an Englishman who had come to
live with the Parisians earlier in the year
to learn French. Then unexpectedly his
master had been recalled to England, and
on the score of expense, and because he in-
tended to return later on, he had left the
dog with them.

“But,” said the Frenchman apologetically,
spreading out his hands with a despairing

esture, “my wife and me, we cannot speak
English to him, and he is lonely. That is
why he wanted to get to you when he
heard your voices, le pauvre petit.”

We talked to the little fellow, who pressed
closer to me, and made much of him
until our bus came along. We wished that
we did not have to continue our journey
and that we could take him with us. He
looked sorrowfully after us as we mounted
and drove away. It consoled us a little to
know that the man seemed very fond of him
and that his owner would soon return.

International News Photo

OF SAMOYED PUPPIES WITH THEIR AUNT "

I have never known of a case where a
dog showed so distinctly that it could dis-
tinguish between nationalities and their dif-
ferent tongues. What was remarkable too,
was. that though my sister and I are Ameri-
cans, we were both born and-:brought up
abroad, and educated in English schools,
and we had gone to France not from
America, but from India, where our home
was, and we are said to have very pro-
nounced English accents. It is only one
more proof that dogs should have our very
kindest care and attention, for none of us
with our greater advantages, can guess at
the depth of loneliness and mental suffer-
ing that they are capable of feeling.

A Smart Shepherd Dog

While passing through Lindley, N. Y., on
a vacation trip, says a writer in The
Shepherd Dog Review, Boston, I was very
pleased to ﬁnd a German Shepherd dog
herding cattle. The dog took about twenty
cattle for a piece along the Susquehanna
trail, turned them up over the Tioga river
bridge on the short cut highway to Elmira,
across the bridge and into a pasture. Won-
dering just what would be the dog’s move
if a speeding car were to come along, I
watched the proceedings carefully. The dog
was particular to keep the cattle single ﬁle,
and when a car appeared from Elmira way,
coming down the hill to cross the bridge, the
dog got busy in earnest. No departure from
single ﬁle was tolerated and all were safely
put in pasture. This was all done in a heavy
rain and by the dog alone. The master,
this morning at least, had stayed at home.

Upon inquiry I ascertained that this dog
was invaluable to its owner and that he
made this trip day in and day out with the
cattle and had never had an accident. He
loved the work undoubtedly. By a neigh-
boring farmhouse I noticed a poor dejected
Shepherd dog chained securely to its little
open dog house. What a contrast! The one,
full of the joy of living and doing"; the other
probably wishing he had not been born.

Be Kind to Animals Week, April 8—13;
Humane Sunday, April 7, 1935.

 

 

 




 

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS Mar.193[p

Page 46

.‘ , Associate Life Members OFFICERS OF THE AMERICAN Field Workers of the Society
- ‘ _ Philli s, Mrs. Elizabeth D. ATION SOCIETY Mrs. Alice L. Park, Palo Alto, California
Arnold, Mnl/Iss Aggiih'r Pillsbiiry, Parker W. HUMANE EDUC Mrs. Rachel C. Hogue, San Diego, California
Babcock, 135 Pt n Mrs Theodore B FOR 1934 Mrs. Jennle R. NIChOlS, Tacoma, Washington
Beekman, John V., Jr. 1 ma ’ ' L C ' James D. Burton, Harriman, Tennessee
Beekman, Mrs. John V-, Powers, Mrs. - - . Mrs. Katherine Weathersbee, Atlanta, Georgia
Jr. Pratt, Mrs. Clara E. PreSIdent Rev. F. Rivers Barnwell, Fort Worth, Texas

Pratt, R. M.

Putnam, Mrs. Harriett
Richards, E. Ira
Richardson, Mrs. Guy
Rogers, Miss Catherine L.

Miss Blanche Finley, Richmond, Virginia
Rev. John W. Lemon, Ark, Virginia

Miss Lucia F. Gilbert, Boston, Massachusetts
Mrs. Jennie R. Toomim, Chicago, Ill.
Seymour Carroll, Columbia, S. C.

Rev. R. E. Grifﬁth, De Land, Florida

Besson, Florence C.

‘ Bliss, Philip W.
Bowler, Mrs. Mary W.
Burdett, Mrs. Paul
Burnham, Henry D.

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY

Vice-Presidents

Caldwell, Miss L. W. Saf'ford, Mrs. Nath’l M. CHARLES G. BANCROFT
Carpenter’ EdWin Z' S:2&i:?e’el¥ifteﬁ M' WILLIAM DANA ORCUTT Field Representative

Coburn, Mrs. C. W. .
Coolidge, Miss Annie Belle Shattuck, Miss G. A.

J t
: Crocker, Mrs. Caroline B. Short, Mrs. -Ellza B.
i Edmunds, Miss Helen C. Slmmons, MISS F. W.

Wm. F. H. Wentzel, M.S., Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

Honorary Vice-Fresndents Field Lecturer in Massachusetts

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

' ' F. S.
F 1er, Jos1ah H. Slngleton, George
Fighel, Mrs. Curt P. Skinner, Mrs. Sarah E.

dd d, Benjamin Sloan, Mrs. E. S.
giiing, E. E. Soule, MISS Sarah M.

Holland, Miss Florence Stearns, Miss Ellen.
Hollingsworth, Mrs. P. R. Stearns, Miss Priscilla
HoOper, Edward W. Stone, MISS Esther A.
Hosmer, Miss Phoebe Lee Thayer, Charles E.

E K.
Hyslop, Samuel Thayer, .. .
Ingram-Eiser, Mrs. Alex- Thayer, Miss Harriet F.
ander Thayer, Miss Marjorie

J , Miss Helen L. Thayer, Miss Nancy
K22: Mrs. H. P. Thorndike, Albert

Kingsbury, W. S. Van Horn, Dora
Leve, Mrs. Sigmund Van Horn, Elsa _ .
Minot, C. H. Walker, Mrs. William B.

N mbe, Miss Adelaide Webster, H. S.
(VVVCO Wheelwright, Mrs. A. C.

Osborne, Lyman P. Williams, Mrs. Edward R.

A Great Opportunity

HE American Humane Education So-

ciety, founded in Boston by Geo. T.
Angell, is an educational institution that is
actually world-wide in its activities; that
commands the consideration of old and
young alike; that knows no race, color or
creed; that makes its appeal onthe ground
of our common humanity. Founded on faith
in God and in the belief that in the» human
heart there are divine impulses and emo-
tions that can be awakened into living ener-
gies, this Society has been, during the years
since 1889, unceasingly preaching its great
gospel of justice, kindness, brotherllness,
peace; pleading for gifts to enlarge its
work; venturing forth often when it has
had to trust the future for its funds; and,
through generous and devoted friends,
wielding a power for the uplifting of man
and for lessening the suffering of animal
life beyond all reckoning.

The years that have passed since the
Society was organized have vindicated the
judgment and made evident the far-seeing
vision of its founder.

It is primarily the child in whom humane
education is directly interested. The culti-
vation of the spirit of kindness to animals
is but the starting point toward that larger
humanity which includes one’s fellows of
every race and clime. Let it be said again
and again that Whatever societies for the
prevention of cruelty to animals have done
for the creatures below us, they have done
inﬁnitely more for men, women and children
in the reaction upon their characters, trans-
forming and ennobling their relations to
each other. Fundamentally humane educa-
tion stands for the ideals in character and
life which are the goal of Christianity. At
their best the church and the Sunday-
school can meet face to face but a part of
the youth of any land. In the schools of
the nation, however, the vast majority can
be reached through humane education, which
raises no question of sect or creed, but fur-
nlshes a common standing grcund for such
moral teaching as all good citizens hold
Vital to a people’s welfare.

His Excellency Joseph B. Ely, Governor of '

Massachusetts
EX—Governor Channing H. Cox, Boston
Baldwin, Mrs. M. W., Sioux City, Iowa
Baxter, Hon. Percival P., Portland, Me.
Beebe, Ethel Fairmont, Cheshire, Conn.
Boyce, Aline J ., Woodstock, Vt.
Campbell, Patrick T., Boston
Champlin, Mme. A. de, New York, N. Y.

' Clarke, Miss Frances E., New York, N. Y.

Crossman, Howard A., Hampton Falls, N.H.
Everitt, Mrs. Ellen Knapp, Escondido, Cal,
Fay, Miss Sarah B., Boston

Frederick, Mrs. O. F., West Lawn, Pa.
Hardy, Mrs. Richard, Chattanooga, Tenn.
Harris, Mrs. Amy E., Pasadena, Calif.
Hunt, Mrs. Charlotte L., Chicago, Illinois
Landes, Bernard S., Colorado Springs, Colo.
Manning, Mrs. Alice W., Istanbul, Turkey
McSkimmon, Miss Mary, Brookline

Olney, Miss Elizabeth W., Providence, RI
Preston, Mrs. H. Clay, Binghamton, N. Y.
Rutherford, Frank B., Philadelphia, Pa.
Smith, Payson, Boston .

Weeks, Edwin R., Kansas City, Mo.
Wentzel, Wm. F. H., Pittsburgh, Pa.

Treasurer: ALBERT A. POLLARD

Secretary: GUY RICHARDSON

Counsel: PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY
& STOREY

Directors of the American Humane
Education Society
Dr. Francis H. Rowley, President

Miss Sarah J. Eddy Hon. Joseph A. Sheehan
William Dana Orcutt Stanwood K. Bolton
Mrs. Geoffrey G. Whitney John R. Macomber
William E. Putnam John R. Forgie
Mrs. M. Jennie Kendall Mrs. Margaret Deland
Charles G. Bancroft Frank M. Hotchkin
Walter M. Kendall Philip Stockton

Trustees of Permanent Funds

John R. Macomber, Chairman of the Board

Charles G. Bancroft, Vice-President of
United Shoe Machinery Corporation

Philip Stockton, President of First Na-
tional Bank of Boston

Foreign Corresponding Representatives

George B. Duff ................... Australia

Luis Pareja Cornejo .............. Ecuador

Charles A. Williams .............. France

Leonard T. Hawksley ............. Italy

Mrs. Mary P. E. Nitobe .......... Japan

Mrs. Marie C. S. Houghton ........ Madeira

Dr. A. T. Ishkanian .............. Mexico

Luther Parker .................... Philippine Islands
Joaquin Julia ..................... Spain

Mrs. Alice W. Manning ........... Turkey

Humane Press Bureau

Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke, Secretary
180 Longwood Ave., Boston

Ella A. Maryott
Honorary Members

William B. Allison, Los Angeles, California

Mrs. Julia M. Baldwin, Chicago, Ill.

Mrs. Wilson Groshans, Aurora, Ill.

Miss Louise de St. Hubert Guyol, New Or-
leans, La.

Miss Mary Harrold, Washington, D. C.

Mrs. Marion E. Fraser, Chicago, Ill.

Mrs. Charlotte L. Hunt, Chicago, Ill.

Mrs. Alice W. Manning, Istanbul, Turkey

Dr. Carlos Monteverde, Guayaquil, Ecua—
dor

Mrs. Edith L. Smith, New York, N. Y.

M. Roger des Varennes, Paris, France

George Arliss, New York, N. Y.

Mrs. George Arliss, New York, N. Y.

Louis Pareja Cornejo, Quito, Ecuador

Mrs. A. D. McDaniel, South Tacoma, Wash.

Ex—Governor A. V. Donahey, Columbus,
Ohio

Active Life Members

Alstrom, Mrs. Dorothy D. Lewis, Mrs. F. E. H.
Baber, Miss Zonia Manning, Mrs. Alice W.
Ballard, Dellworth Marsh, A. M.

Barnard, Harry Mitchell, Miss Mary
Brennemann, Mrs. Joseph Ransom, John E.
Champlin, Mme. A. de Rogers, Albert R.

Crocker, Mrs. Caroline B. Schaaf, Kenneth A.
Dodge, Mrs. Lela G. Smith, Oliver

Eddy, Miss Sarah J. Stokes, Miss O. E. Phelps
Fay,'Miss Sarah B. Traver, Mrs. L.

Fisher, H. Tucker, Nathan, M.D.
Glenn, Miss Carrie Upham, Miss E. Annie
Haile, Mrs. Wm. H. . Vanderbilt, Mrs. F. W.
Hardy, Mrs. Richard VanRensselaer, C. S., Jr.
Harris, Mrs. Amy E. Whitney, Mrs. Geoffrey G.
Kidder, Nathaniel T. Will, Mrs. Edwin R.
Kilgore, John D. Williams, Miss Nellie C.

Associate Life Members

Babcock, Miss Edith Marshall, Mrs. Sallie G.
Barnwell, Almon Angell Meyer, Miss Heloise
Cabot, Mrs. Susan Newcomb, Miss Adelaide
Curtis,
Freshel, Mrs. Curt P.
Furlong, Rollo L.
Gray, Miss Ellen
Larkin, John D.

Atherton W.

Parker, Miss E. S.
Stone, Miss Esther A.
Todd, Mrs. Albert
Weeks, Edwin R.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 158
@112 ‘iﬁanh nf Merry

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

E. A. MARYOTT, State Organizer
PLEDGE

I will try to be kind to all living creatures and
try to protect them from cruel usage.

he American Humane Education Soc1ety Wlll send
torivery person who forms a Band of Mercy of thlrty
members, and sends the name chosen for the .Band and
the name and post-ofﬁce address of the preSIdent who
has been duly elected, special Band of Mercy literature
and a gilt badge for the pres1dent. .
See inside front cover for prlces of llterature and

Band of Mercy supplies.

NEW BANDS OF MERCY

Two hundred and forty-six new Bands
of Mercy were reported during August.
Of these, 212 were in Illinois, 21 in the
Philippine Islands, 12 in Virginia, and one
in Syria.

Total number Bands of Mercy organ-
ized by Parent American Society, 203,504.

0 I
0

Boys and girls be kind to dumb animals,
not only because you will lose nothing by
it, but because you ought to: for they were
placed on the earth by the same Kind Hand
that made all living creatures.

From “Beautiful Joe”

Friends of Mine

Good Morning, Brother Sunshine,
Good Morning, Sister Song,

I beg your humble pardon
If you’ve waited ’very long.

I thought I heard you rapping,
To shut you out were sin.

My heart is standing open,
Won’t you walk right in?

Good morning, Brother Gladness,
Good morning Sister Smile,
They told me you were coming,
So I waited on a while.

I’m lonesome here without you,
A weary while it’s been,

My heart is standing open,
Won’t you walk right in?

Good morning, Brother Kindness,
Good morning, Sister Cheer,

I heard you were out calling,
So I waited for you here,

Some way, I keep forgetting,
I have to toil or spin,

When you are my companions,
Won’t you walk right in?

JAMES W. FOLEY

 

“PRINCE” AND “MITZY”

OUR DUMB~ ANIMALS

 

 

Oct. 1934 ‘

 

FROLICSOME PLAYMATES

 

“Polly ”

BRUCE JENNINGS

OLLY is dead,” he said. It was his

greeting, and we hadn’t met for several
days. He knew that we had been friends,
Polly and I, but still his thoughtfulness sur-
prised me. It exceeded my expectation of
him.

“Polly is dead. . .” I could only repeat
his words. I felt a vague sense of loss. I
gave an inward shrug of resignation. One
gets used to such happenings.

“Anyway, we think so,” he said. “She
wandered off a few days ago, and she hasn’t
been back.”

“Perhaps,” I said doubtfully, “perhaps
she’s had kittens.”

Lincoln grinned broadly. “Polly,” he
said, “has not been in the habit of becoming
a mother for a long time.”

I smiled sympathetically. So Polly, too,
had passed out into the Great Unknown.
We would miss her.

Of all the living creatures I have known,
Polly was among the very few to whom one
might apply the lines of Matthew Arnold:

“Unaﬂrighted by the silence round them,
Undistracted by the sights they see,
These demand not that the things without
them
Yield them love, amusement, sympathy.”

She was self-contained.

I do not know what Polly’s inward experi-
ences may have been, because she gave such
infrequent outward expression to them.
What ecstasies she may have felt I cannot
say, for it was a most unusual occasion
when she behaved in other than the most
sedate and almost world—weary way.

When Lincoln played the piano for us,
Polly would leap upon the bench. And
there she would stand and grave-1y wave her
tail, not always in perfect time with the
music, until the recital had been concluded.
This was her most startling manifestation
of either pleasure or pain.

Polly was, I suspect, a rather thorough-
gomg epicurean in her tastes. She enjoyed
the comforts, the amenities, the good things

of life. Of this characteristic I can give
but one instance. Of a chilly night Polly
would often climb to the roof of the house,
and, gaining entrance to Lincoln’s bedroom
through an unscreened window, leap upon
the bed and lightly tap him on the head
with her paw until he would raise the covers
sufﬁciently for her to crawl under. She
would then stretch out, well-covered, with
her head on the pillow, and sleep until
daybreak.

But we shall especially niotice Polly’s
absence from our little philosophical gather-
ings. For Lincoln and Professor Snell and
I would sometimes get together of an even-
ing to discuss some question of the day or
perhaps settle forever some problem which
has disturbed the philosopher for four thou-
sand years. And we could always be sure
that Polly would sooner or later join us.

She would enter the room unobtrusively,
perhaps slipping through a half-shut door,
and wander about our legs for a moment.
And then she would usually spring upon
Professor Snell’s lap. I will have to con-
fess, with a twinge of jealousy, that she
seemed to prefer his lap to mine. Perhaps
it was because he was an older and a wiser
man. On the few occasions when she se-
lected me, I felt a glow of satisfaction and
a sense of some signal honor.

Though Polly did not join in our conver-
sation, her silence was a most noteworthy
contribution. Her very presence gave dig-
nity to our discussions and certainly kept
them within the bounds of common sense.
She reminded us of our own ﬁnitude and
kept us from uttering ﬁnalities with all the
wisdom of babes. Our talk ran along quiet
and tranquil channels when Polly slept on
Professor Snell’s lap. Raised voices might
have disturbed her rest, chased away the
pleasing fancies of her dream.

I think it was a ﬁtting ending for Polly
that she should simply disappear. It showed
a nice regard for our feelings; a digniﬁed
acceptance of Life’s last great adventure.

Man’s true character can be always
gauged by his attitude towards dumb
animals. LT.-COLONEL R. W. GRAY

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

$

 

 

 

 

Page 119
My Dog, “ Gretchen”

C. S. DODGE

LIVE, for eight months in every year,
I] on a farm in the town of Charlton,
Massachusetts, on which my ancestors and
myself have lived for two hundred years.
My nearest neighbor is half a mile away.

In former years, it was my custom to
spend several days at a time alone on that
farm. I have said alone, but I had for
company, “Gretchen,” a police dog. Gretchen
was only a dog and a female of the species
at that, but she was descended from a long
line of canine kings and seemed to be con-
scious of her intellectual superiority to the
common herd.

At night, when I retired to rest, Gretchen
would take her place silently on a rug be-
side my bed and, unless something unusual
occurred, would not stir or make the slight-
est noise to disturb me until I myself arose
or spoke to her.

One night, in the dead of winter, when
the thermometer registered around zero,
Gretchen began to bark, very softly at ﬁrst,
and I listened intently but could hear no
noise, so I turned over and was trying to
resume my slumbers; but Gretchen was not
content to let matters remain so. She began
to bark louder and to move toward the
door and constantly came back to me poking
her nose into my face. So, ﬁnally, with some
reluctance, I arose and lighted. a lamp for
there are no electric lights on my farm,
dressed myself, loaded my shotgun and fol-
lowed Gretchen into the darkness and the
night. I took no light with me for, if any
marauders were about, the light would only
point out my whereabouts to them and
would not help me in my search.

The night was somewhat dark but, when
I became accustomed to it, I could discern
objects that were fairly near me. Gretchen
led me along a path that led to some poultry
houses that were vacant in winter, and
there, about a dozen rods from the house,
right in the path, lay an intoxicated man.
He had removed his shoes from his feet,
whether because he thought he was retiring
for the night, or because his feet, which I
found to be frozen, pained him, I do not
know. By means of great exertion I partly
aroused this man and, by means of inﬁnite
labor, I partly carried him to the kitchen
of my house where there was still a good
wood ﬁre, seated him in a chair and im-
mersed his frozen feet in cold water.

Gretchen looked on with seeming satis-
faction, but she was not content. She per-
sisted in barking and in going toward the
outside door and, when I had ministered to

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

the man as best I could, I followed her
again into the night. This time» she led me
straight to one of the unoccupied poultry
houses and there I found two other men
fast asleep on the ﬂoor and grossly intoxi-
cated. I succeeded in arousing them some—
what, .and ﬁnally landed them in the kitchen
and wrapped them in blankets placing one
on a couch and the other on the ﬂoor.

Still Gretchen was not content. She again
insisted on my following her, which I did,
this time taking a lantern with me, and she
led me to the shoes which had been removed
by the ﬁrst man. I could not conceive that
Gretchen would make so much noise over a
pair of shoes and so I searched the neigh-
borhood for more men but found none. I
then returned to the house, Gretchen took
her place on her rug, and quietly remained
there- until morning.

Now, I am relating the facts, I do not
know how Gretchen knew that those men
were there. I think her sense of hearing
must have been very acute. She was the
pilot, I was only the mechanician.

Gretchen lived many years after this, and
did many deeds of kindness, seeming to be
amply repaid by a kind word and a friendly
pat.

When she died I followed her bare-headed
to a grave among the whispering pines in
the shadow of Mount Muggett, to which
grave she was borne by my faithful farmer,
who was also her faithful friend.

EDITOR’S NOTE: Mr. Dodge, who is a lawyer in Wor-
cester, Mass., writes that ever since the year 1868
(when Our Dumb Animals was founded) he has been
a constant reader of the paper and that he is glad
to see on the ﬁrst page the quotation from Cowper
which Mr. Angell always had printed there. We
wonder if there are now any others who have read
Our Dumb Animals regularly since 1868!

Saved by a Squirrel
H. S. CHAMBERS

HAT I was recently saved from a bad

soaking or possibly drowning by a
squirrel may have been accidental or unin-
tentional on the squirrel’s part, but I
credited it with intelligent, purposeful ac-
tion in the incident. It was like this:

I was returning from western to central
Oklahoma in a small covered moving truck.
When I crossed the Cimarron river it was
rising rapidly, the wind whipping its red,
murky water into menacing waves. Back
northwest up the river the sky was banked
with heavy black clouds.

After crossing that stream, the road ran
for two miles down the river before it left
the ﬂats and climbed a steep bank onto
higher ground. At the foot of this bank
was a clump of trees through which a small

 

 

TO OUR FRIENDS

In making your will, kindly bear in mind that the corporate title of our Society is “The
Massachusetts Soc1ety for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals”: that it is the second
incorporated (March, 1868) Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals in the country,
and that it has no connection with any other similar Society.

Any bequest especially intended for the beneﬁt of the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital
should, nevertheless, be made to The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals “for the.use of the Hospital,” as the Hospital is not incorporated but is the
property of that Soc1ety and is conducted by it.

FORM OF BEQUEST

I give to The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruel to Animals
to The American Humane Education Society), the sum of .......... ty ............. ( or
dollars (or, if other property, describe the property).

 

 

July, 1934

stream came down out of the hills to empty
into the river half a mile away. I pulled in
among these trees on a grassy plot to camp
for the night. Gathering dry wood, I built a
ﬁre and put on coffee and bacon to cook.

A squirrel chattered in a hackberry tree
nearby. Presently I noticed her sitting on
the ground at the foot of the tree a few
feet from where I was preparing my supper.
She watched me intently, even expectantly,
I thought, so I took a small potato and
tossed it down before her. She whisked up
the tree a few feet, then crept cautiously
down again, grabbed the potato and ﬂed
up the tree. High in the branches 3. big
bunch of dry leaves and twigs indicated
home and possibly baby squirrels. Half
way up she was met by Daddy Squirrel who
took the potato and together they raced on
up to the nest.

As I started to eat she came gingerly
down again. I got a handful of puffed rice
and put it at the foot of the tree. While
I was doing this she paused up tree, but
when I started eating again she jumped
down and ﬁlled her mouth with it till her
cheeks bulged like pouches. Home with this >
she went but soon returned and picked up
the remainder to the last grain. Later,
when I threw out some bread crusts and
bacon rinds, Mrs. Squirrel was right there
and carried them away.

Being tired out by a long drive, I got in
the truck, unrolled my bedding, turned in,
and was soon sound asleep.

Sometime later I was partially awakened
by the impression that something had struck
my abdomen. Feeling nothing and hearing
only the patter of rain on the truck cover,
I was sound asleep again in a jiffy.

Presently something prickly, tickly, and
furry hit my face sharply and I started up,
wide awake now. By a ﬂash of lightning I
saw Mrs. Squirrel pose a moment on the
truck’s endboard, look back at me, and by
another ﬂash saw her leap to a nearby
limb of the tree and disappear up its trunk.

Then I became conscious of the sound of
rushing water. On getting out I found the
little creek overﬂowing its banks and water
up under the truck. Quickly starting the
motor, I drove out and up the bank onto
higher ground where I again pitched camp.

In the morning the river was two miles
wide. The spot where I had cooked supper
was eight feet under water. Two red squir—
rels chattered merrily as brilliant sunshine
ﬂooded their home in the hackberry tree.

Our Dumb Animals

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston Ofﬁce; 180 Longwood Av-
enue.

Address all communications to Boston.

TERMS

One dollar per year. Postage free to any part of
the world.

Humane Societies and Agents are invited to cor-
respond with us for terms on large orders.

All dollar subscriptions sent direct to the ofﬁce en-
title the sender to membership in either of our two
Societies.

 

RATES OF MEMBERSHIP IN

THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
OR THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.

Active Life $100.00 Active Annual $10.00
Associate Life 50.00 Associate Annual 5.00
Sustaining 20.00 Annual 1.00

Childrens $0.75

Checks and other payments may be sent to ALBERT
A. POLLARD, Treasurer, 180 Longwood Avenue,
Boston.

Manuscripts should be addressed to the Editor,
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

S ept. 1934

 

Founded by Geo. T. Angell. Incorporated March, 1868

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds

JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board
CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President, United Shoe
Machinery Corporation
FIB”: STOCKTON, President, First National Bank of
OS on

Prosecuting Ofﬁcers in Boston

Telephone (Complaints, Ambulances) Longwood 6100
L. WILLARD WALKER, Chief Oﬁicer

HARRY L. ALLEN DAVID A. BOLTON
HARVEY R. FULLER HOWARD WILLAND

County Prosecuting Ofﬁcers

HERMAN N. DEAN, Boston

Middlesex, Norfolk and Plymouth
FRED T. VICKERS, Lynn Eastern Essex
WILLIAM W. HASWELL, Methuen Western Essex
THEODORE W. PEARSON, Springﬁeld

Hampden, Hampshire and Franklin

ROBERT L. DYSON, Worcester Worcester
WINFIELD E. DUNHAM, New Bedford Bristol
HAROLD G. ANDREWS, Hyannis,

Barnstable, Dukes and Nantucket
T. KING HASWELL, Pittsﬁeld Berkshire

Rest Farm for Horses and Small Animal Shelter,
Methuen

W. W. HASWELL, Superintendent

Women’s Auxiliary of the Mass. S. P. C. A., 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston—MRS. EDITH WASHBURN
CLARKE, Pres.; MRS. A. J. FURBUSH, Treas.; MRS.
AGNES P. FISHER, Ch. Work Com.

Springﬁeld Branch—MRS. DONALD C. KIBBE, Pres. ;
MRS. AARON BAGG, Treas.

Winchester Branch—MRS. RICHARD S. TAYLOR,
Pres.; MISS BESSIE SMALL, Treas.

MONTHLY REPORT OF SOCIETY
AND BRANCHES

Miles traveled by humane Oﬁicers . 16,817

Cases investigated ............... 495
Animals examined . . . . .......... 5,853
Animals placed in homes. . . ...... 88
Lost animals restored to owners. . . 32
Number of prosecutions ........ . 5
Number Of convictions ........... 5
Horses taken from work. ........ 27
Horses humanely put to sleep ..... 33

Small animals humanely put to sleep 1,748

Stock-yards and Abattoirs

Animals inspected ............... 39,681
Cattle, swine and sheep humanely
put tO sleep ................... 12

The Massachusetts Society for the Pre-
vention Of Cruelty to Animals has been re-
membered in the wills of Martha D. Wilson
of Wakeﬁeld, and Isabella P. Shaw Of
Wellesley.

August 13, 1934.

“It Often shows a ﬁne command of lan-
guage to say nothing.”

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

ANGELL MEMORIAL ANIMAL
HOSPITAL

and Dispensary for Animals

184 Longwood Avenue Telephone, Longwood 6100
Veterinarians

. DAILEY, V.M.D., Chief of Staff

. SCHNEIDER, V.M.D., Asst. Chief
. SCHROEDER, D.V.M.

. SCHNELLE, V.M.D.

. MUNSON, V.M.D.

. BLAKELY, V.M.D.

HARRY L. ALLEN, Superintendent

Springﬁeld Branch
53-57 Bliss Street, Springﬁeld, Mass.
THEODORE W. PEARSON, General Manager
Veterinarians

A. R. EVANS, V.M.D.
H. L. SMEAD, D.V.M.

geese:
bowqmuj

 

 

 

HOSPITAL REPORT FOR JULY
Including Springﬁeld Branch

Hospital Dispensary
Cases entered 753 Cases 2,461
Dogs 572 Dogs 2,023
Cats 165 Cats 3'75
Birds 10 Birds 52
Horses 3 Horses 2
Rabbit 1 Rabbits 3
Deer 1 Skunks 3
Skunk 1 Turtle 1

Goat 1
Operations 724 Squirrel 1
Hospital cases since Opening, Mar.
1, 1915 ....................... 121,698
Dispensary Cases ................ 282,945
Total ......................... 404,643

The Month in the Springﬁeld Branch

Cases entered in Hospital .......... 123
Cases entered in Dispensary ........ 309
Operations ........................ 116

MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A. IN THE
COURTS

Some Prosecutions in July

A defendant, automobile driver, who
struck and injured a dog and left the
scene Of the accident without making
himself known, was charged with the Of-
fense, and also for operating car without
a license, (two counts). Upon the ﬁrst
the case was placed on ﬁle and on the
latter count he was ﬁned $20.

For selling a horse which had been or-
dered removed from work, as being unﬁt
for labor, the defendant was found guilty.
He returned the price paid; the horse was
ordered killed and court placed the case
on ﬁle.

Three other defendants were summoned
into court in a case also involving the sale
and use of an unﬁt horse. One defendant
who pleaded guilty to the charge of sub-
jecting the animal to unnecessary cruelty
and suffering by working him, was sen-
tenced to jail for thirty days. The sec-
ond, who sold the horse, also pleaded
guilty and was ﬁned $5. The third was
too sick to go tO court and his case was
continued.

More friends are needed to endow stalls
and new kennels in the Angell Memorial
Animal Hospital. Payments of thirty-ﬁve
dollars for a kennel or seventy-ﬁve dollars
for a stall will insure a suitable marker
inscribed with donor’s name.

Page 137

Fete at Gloucester

BOUT 350 women, attired in summer

gowns Of brilliant hues, adorned the
beautiful grounds Of Houndsmoor Lodge,
Bass Rocks, East Gloucester, at the beneﬁt
garden party for the Massachusetts S. P.
C. A., held July 18 under the auspices of
the Women’s Auxiliary Of the Society.

Attractions included a fashion show, un-
der the direction Of Plotkin Bros. of Bos-
ton, in which Miss Catherine Pentecost and
other girls Of the Junior League served as
models; an American dance by Mr. Edmund
Bradley; songs by Miss Josephine Consetta,
dramatic soprano. There were also fortune
telling and tea. The grounds, generously
contributed by Mrs. Frederic L. Morrill,
proved an ideal setting for the fete. Mrs.
Morrill’s English house with its various
rooms furnished in different periods and
the pine kitchen, one Of the show places of
New England, as well as the beautiful
English brick kitchen, was greatly enjoyed
by the guests.

Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke, president
of the Auxiliary was general chairman,
assisted by these hostesses: Mrs. William
Haswell, Mrs. James Corbett, Mrs. Charles
T. Harding, Mrs. Roy A. Perry, Mrs. Char-
les C. Hoyt, Mrs. John A. Dykeman, Mrs.
Samuel S. Sutcliﬁ', Mrs. Frank S. Hobbs,
Mrs. William J. McDonald and Mrs.
Manuel Grayce.

Humane Work in Taunton

An increase in the work Of the Taunton
Branch Of the Massachusetts S. P. C.. A.
was shown at its recent annual meetmg,
when the following statistics were reported:
Homes were found for 85 dogs and cats;
58 animals were restored to owners,' and
671 diseased, injured or unwanted animals
were humanely put to sleep. Mrs. Howard
F. Woodward was re-elected president. The
Taunton Society now has a membership
of 68, which is an increase of ten over the
preceding year.

Relief for Horses

At the ﬁve watering stations maintained
by the Massachusetts S. P. C. A. in Boston
for the relief Of animals, working horses
were served 9,835 times during the period
from June 26 tO August 3. At one station
alone, India Square, over 3,300 drinks were
given to thirsty animals. We know Of no
other form of relief that the Society can
render which is more necessary at a time
of distress and exhaustion for hard-working
animals than to provide them with this
free refreshment.

Humane Workers’ Fund

We are receiving gifts to the American
Humane Education Society as a trust fund,
the interest to be used for the beneﬁt of
ﬁeld missionaries and others who have
spent their lives in promoting humane
education.

We will welcome your contribution to
this fund. Please make checks payable to
Treasurer, American Humane Education
Society, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, and
specify that the amount contributed is for
the Humane Education Trust Fund.

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

’ Page 134

I Used to Kill Birds '

M . C . E D W A R D S
Reprinted by request

I used to kill birds in my boyhood,
Bluebirds, and robins and wrens;
I hunted them up in the mountains,
I hunted them down in the glens;
I never thought it was sinful—
I did it only for fun— -
And I had rare sport in the forest
With the poor little birds and my gun.

But one clear day in the springtime
I spied a brown bird in a tree,
Merrily swinging and chirping,
As happy as bird could be,
And, raising my gun in a twinkling,
I ﬁred, and my aim was too true;
For a moment the little thing ﬂuttered,
Then oﬁ’ to the bushes it flew.

I followed it quickly and softly,
And there to my sorrow I found,

Right close to its nest full of young ones,
The little bird dead on the ground!

Poor birdies! For food they were calling;
But now they could never be fed,

For the kind mother-bird who had loved

them

Was lying there bleeding and dead.

I picked up the bird in my anguish,
I stroked the wee motherly thing
Who could nevermore feed its clear young
ones,
Nor dart through the air on swift wing.
I made a firm vow in that moment,
When my heart with such sorrow was
stirred,
That never again in my lifetime
Would I shoot a poor innocent bird!

Please remember the Massachusetts So-
ciety for the Prevention of Cruelty to Ani-
mals in your will.

as:

 

COMMON TERN AND ITS NEST—A SLIGHT DEPRESSION

Thls simple nest is sometimes

OUR DUMB ‘ ANIMALS

Our Apartment-House Birds
HARRIET SMITH HAWLEY

HE martins have come!” It was
with that jubilant statement that we

-were greeted on our arrival at camp in

Alburg, Vermont, the ﬁrst week in May.
Being a newcomer to that region, I had to
take time to consider as to what Martins
our neighbors referred. In our home village
We were just preparing to celebrate the
return of a Martin family who were mis-
sionaries in China. So I looked at them
questioningly, but when I saw the farmer’s
Wife point to two large bird—houses, each on
a ﬁfteen—foot pole, I knew that she referred
to birds.

The martins had come.

“Yes,” she said, “they were a little late
this year on account of the hard winter.
They usually arrive on the twenty-ﬁfth of
April.”

It was then that I remembered that when
coming up through the beautiful North
Hero Island, I had noticed that almost every
farm had one of these tall bird houses near
the barn. Now, I knew that they were for
the martins.

Why, I began to wonder, did we‘not see
these birds in southern New England. Had
the warring starlings driven them out, or
was it because the people no! longer built
houses for them?

For these martins like many people like
to live in apartments. There is nothing soli-
tary about them. Indeed, some of the mar-
tin houses in this Champlain country held
as many as forty couples. Such a house-
when the young ones were hatched would
produce a sound of jazz that would certainly
get on the nerves of such birds as belong to
the thrush family. And almost all the
houses were built for at least twenty pairs.

I often wondered, as I saw them ﬂying
in and out of their apartment, how they
knew they had arrived at the proper en-

IN THE SAND

lined with grass, bits of driftwood or seaweed.

Sept. 1934

     

\

ARTINS

m“... .....

HOME OF THE M

trance. But then, how does any apartment—
house dweller know where to turn in, es-
pecially at night.

The martins, I was told, send out in the
early spring scout birds to locate a suitable
house. Having looked it over carefully, they
depart to appear later with the prospective
tenants just arrived from the south.

Their ﬁrst job is to clean out the house,
and no spring house cleaning is done more
thoroughly. All sticks and dirt are removed
and carried a distance away from the house.
Then they are ready for the new nest.

A friendly bird is the martin. He likes
to be near people. I noticed that oftentimes
the handsome gabled house on the lawn of
a summer resident would be empty, while
an old soap-box apartment of a farmer
would be full of birds. They prefer life to
style.

They are also friendly with each other.
Sometimes my neighbor said they would all
disappear for several hours only to return
with a ﬂock of visiting martins. And then
what a jolly time they had!

The last of August, their young being
full ﬂedged, these martin folks gather in
great clans, warble together concerning
their winter plans, and ﬁnally take off with
a noisy good-bye.

And it is probable that no bird goes far-
ther, for the purple martins go to South
America for their winter sojourning. They
belong to that great swallow family, which
is noted for its strong swift ﬂight.

During my entire stay at camp, I de-
lighted in watching the lovely purplish black
of these birds against the blue. It reminded
me of the exquisite Japanese prints.

But beautiful and interesting as these
birds are, our northern farmers do not
build these commodious house-s for them for
that reason alone. Rather do they cater
to the-m because they know that they are
the most persistent insect-eaters of any bird.
They not only eat insects themselves, but
they bring up their young on an insect diet.
The little martins with voracious appetite
thrive on wasps, bugs, beetles, weevils,
moths, and ﬂies.

Strange, it seems, that in so many parts
of the country these birds are rare simply
because the farmers no longer build houses
for them. Perhaps they prefer to buy
spray and dust guns. I prefer the martin
method, and so does the farmer of northern
Vermont. '

 




 

 

 

‘7

 

 

 

 

Page 41;

Kind to Animals Week program of Illinois,
and Mrs. Toomim arranged a series of
broadcasts with prominent speakers for
every day of the Week. She carried on sum-
mer programs at 16 settlement and neigh-
borhood houses in Chicago. Her school
work resulted in 2,339 Bands of Mercy
being reported. Mrs. Nichols, with head-
quarters in Washington State, centers her
activities in the Parent-Teacher Associa-
tion, her work as national chairman of the
committee on humane education involving
much correspondence as well as frequent
long trips to conventions. She participated
in the program at the national convention
and took charge of our exhibit there. Mrs.
Park, from Palo Alto, California, carries on
the work of the Western Press Committee
by dispatching short articles to about 550
newspapers west of the Mississippi River.
She superintended the distribution of half
a ton of humane literature (contributed by
a friend) in the schools of San Francisco.

Be Kind to Animals Week

As usual, activities in connection with this
national anniversary were among the out—
standing accomplishments of the year. Two
nation-wide contests were conducted, in the
interests of Our Dumb Animals—one for
the best verse, and one: for the best photo-
graphs taken by children with their own
cameras. Two cash prizes were awarded in
the former, entries having come from 45
states and provinces, and three cash prizes
were given in the latter. National posters
and reprints from Our Dumb Animals, in
addition to quantities of other literature,
were sent to humane societies and indi-
v1duals generally. In Massachusetts Gov-
ernor Ely gave another excellent proclama-
tlon of the Week, and the usual free litera-
ture was sent to all the teachers in elemen-
tary schools. Perhaps the most signiﬁcant
of all was the state-wide poster contest, in
which it is estimated that 70,000 posters
were made in public and parochial schools
of Massachusetts. The teachers selected
and sent in 6,071. They came from 458
schools, representing 152 cities and towns.
For these 725 ﬁrst medals, 826 second
medals and 1,172 honorable mentions, carry—
lng a free subscription to Our Dumb Ani-
mals, were awarded. Many of the best
posters were exhibited for two weeks at the
Boston Public Library where they were
Viewed by hosts of interested visitors.

International Work

.The international character of the So-
c1ety is shown by the almost daily cor-
respondence with one of the foreign coun-
tries, in ten of which we have special repre-
sentatives. Literature or other supplies
have been sent in varying quantities to
Honduras, Argentina, Brazil, Ireland, Nor-
way, Bulgaria, Esthonia, Turkey, Morocco,
South Africa, India, China, and Japan, be-
sides Porto Rico and the Philippines. This
llterature, while largely in English, is also
In several other languages.

New Publications J

Our enterprising ﬁeld worker, Miss Gil-
bert, from her talks in New England
schools, compiled an entirely new pamphlet
of 48 pages, “An Early Start to Kindness,”
eSpecially adapted for use by teachers in
ﬁrst and second grades, which is meeting

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

with warm approval. Besides an edition of
10,000 copies of this, an equal number was
required of a sixth edition of the ever-
popular “Teacher’s Helper,” and of the new
“Exercises for Schools on Humane Day.”
A new play for children, several leaﬂets on
animals and humane education, and re-
peated editions of “The Great Cruelty”
(national report on slaughter-house re-
form) and “The Shame of It” (showing the
cruelty in “setting up” horses’ tails).were
among the new publications. Two editions
of the Humane Calendar appeared, both of
which were exhausted before the end of the
year.

Free Literature and Other Supplies

An aggregate of 125,000 leaﬂets, pam-
phlets, cards, books, calendars, etc., were dis-
patched without charge from our home
oﬂ‘ice. This count does not include such
supplies as buttons, badges, pennants, chil-
dren’s posters and the like, for all of which
we have constant calls. At the national con-
vention in Hartford, Conn., there was a
general exhibit of our work and many of
our publications were distributed gratui-
tously.

Jack London Club

Twenty-two thousand, one hundred and
eighty-four new members of the Jack Lon-
don Club added in 1933 indicates no lack of
interest in our organized protest against
the cruelty of trained animal performances.
The total registered membership to date is
587,151. .

Receipts and Expenses

Current expenses, $24,639.84; current re-
ceipts, $18,943.86—deﬁcit, $5,695.98. Though
our American Humane Education Society
receives far less by way of bequests than
the Massachusetts Society for the Preven-
tion of Cruelty to- Animals, though the need
is equally great, we were able to meet this
deﬁcit out of a legacy which could be used
for that purpose.

FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

In making your will, please remember
the American Humane Education Society.

 

 

JUNIOR S. P. C. A. IN LUCENA, PHILIPPINE ISLANDS

Mar. 1931;

Annuity Bonds

ANY men and women, lovers of ani-

mals, are getting both happiness and
material comfort from our two Societies’
Annuity Bonds. These bonds are absolutely
safe and yield a return according to one’s
age. They make their appeal ordinarily to
people over 40 years of age. Send the
coupon for a free folder which gives full
details. Fill in the coupon and mail it now.
The Massachusetts S. P. C. A. (or)
The American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Ave., Boston, Mass.

Without obligation to me, please send
me your folder which tells all about your
Annuity Bonds. '

.................................

...............................

City ..................... State ........

For Retired Workers

We are receiving gifts to the American
Humane Education Society as a trust fund,
the interest to be used for the beneﬁt of
ﬁeld missionaries and others who have
spent their lives in promoting humane
education.

We will welcome your contribution to
this fund. Please make checks payable to
Treasurer, American Humane Education
Society, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, and
specify that, the amount contributed is for
the Humane Education Trust Fund.

More friends are needed to endow stalls
and new kennels in the Angell Memorial
Animal Hospital. Payments of thirty-ﬁve

dollars for a kennel or seventy-ﬁve dollars
for a stall will insure a suitable marker
inscribed with donor’s name. Terms of per-
manent endowment of free stalls and ken-
nels will be given upon application to the
Massachusetts 5. P. C. A., 180 Longwood

Avenue, Boston.

   

 




 

 

 

(hd.1934

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

 

 

 

e‘ié‘nw
_, _ l .

 

 

 

 

 
  

qtv /
/&

  

_ “§\\‘-\§

:5“ \\w\n‘ .

 

Baby Bruins

W. J. BANKS

O tiny, helpless and undeveloped are baby bears that. the
-_ people of the Middle Ages believed them to be born a
shapeless mass, licked into some semblance of the proper shape
by a loving mother’s tongue. That, of course, is untrue, but it
is a fact that the brand-new cubs are almost hairless mites
weighing less than a pound. It is many weeks before they can
leave the warmth
and shelter of their
secluded den.

But, once they
have seen the light
of day, it is not
long before the
bear twins—they
usually come in
pairs—are enjoy—
ing life to the ut-
most. Few wood-
land babes are
more playful or in-
teresting to watch
than black bear
cubs. They seem
to be able to think
of endless: tricks
f o r t h e i r o w n
amusement a n d
the annoyance of
their companions.
Moth-er bear often
has to- administer
a well-deserved if
somewhat stagger-
ing cuff on t h e
head as she teaches
her offspring how
to behave them-
selves, for their
own good and safety, in the stern school of woodland
experience.

Bears are among the most inquisitive of all animals, which
is saying a great deal. And nothing escapes the thorough in-
vestigation of the bear cubs as they search every nook and
cranny for succulent grubs or roots or honey to satisfy their
never-ending appetite. Curiosity and greed combine to make
the bears among the tamest of animals in the national parks,
where they soon learn that no harm will befall them from
humans. Tourists are always amused by the comical antics
of the roly-poly cubs as they boldly beg for dainties, or rollick
together in mock combat.

But mother bear is always watchful for her babies’ safety.
And the latter often like to fool her by crying for help without
reason. It is never safe to take liberties, however well in-
tended, with the cubs if mother bear is anywhere near. One
tourist stepped from his car to take a picture of a bear family,
begging for dainties, on a mountain motor road. He made
the mistake of stepping between the mother and cub in order
t9 snap the latter. The she-bear mistook his peaceful inten-
tions, and the tourist continued the journey wrapped in his
lap-rug, having parted with the seat of his trousers.

 

 

 

BLACK BEAR CUBS AT PLAY

ii»? .‘ ,u 1:. 7‘ - L '1’,”
,9 87 c ’\ ”Rey-3"} ” ’
gr" 'Wélf .
I. " ,' -_ ,‘z't ’ , ’x“ '
I ' J , i
-‘ .T g . 22’;.’/( ,,
\ ' n ' If ' ' , HA
,— (, ,2 w ’3,
I. ' I V r $\ (\ ‘l
. . aX ' , . " _

_. ,2 I /
F‘ :" k—T’J "—l f- I
/" '7/ .ld.-ll ﬂ/% //’ I, v‘ V/ A]
#. MI,@¢@W%Q IIMWf-Sgy ' ﬂyyﬁmEdeM/JM%WWW

  

The Birds’ Concert

ELIZABETH GOGGINS

Last night the birds had a concert
In the russet apple tree,
I opened the window and saw them
As plainly as could be.
The orchestra was assembled
On a gently swaying bough
And kept the time with a musical chime
While a cardinal showed them how.

The woodpecher beat on a big bass drum
And the wood thrush played the flute,
The goldfinch blew on the piccolo,
And the bunting strummed the lute:
They played till the stars shone one by one,
Above in the darkening dome—
And sadly flew from the apple tree
When the nighthawk called them home.

A Close-up with the Birds

CONRAD O. PETERSON

WINTER in Northern Wisconsin is usually very cold
with plenty of snow. The north wind, sweeping in
from Lake Superior, roars over forest and ﬁeld, spending its
fury on all life thereon.

While working one day with my brother in the forest cut-
ting hemlock, balsam and spruce trees into prop-er lengths for
the pap-er mills, we paused for our midday meal. Our lunch
was cold and partly frozen, but having built a ﬁre we soon
thawed it out and warmed ourselves. It was while eating
lunch that I noticed something interesting. Coming through
the trees and brush I saw a half dozen or so of our little Winter
birds, the black-capped chickadees, flying toward us. I had
noticed them many times before, but for the ﬁrst time this
thought struck me: What do they ﬁnd to eat in this frozen
forest?

Breaking off a part of my sandwich, I placed it on a log be-
side me. One daring little forager circled around, lit on the
log and boldly took a bite; then taking the whole piece, ﬂew
away. The next piece I lay in the palm of my hand and after
sitting very quiet with my hand out-stretched, another chicka—
dee landed on my cap and hopped to my thumb. How odd to
feel the clutch of its feet. Taking a ﬁrm hold on my thumb,
he, too, took a bite and then ﬂew away with the whole.

I thought I would vary the menu, so I set. out some dark
brown cake. But birds, too, seem to have their likes and dis-
likes. They would not touch it.

It has been said that birds do not store food for future use,
but I noticed that these chickadees carried away large pieces of
bread and immediately came back for more. I feel sure that
they could not have ﬁnished their portion so soon. I believe
that portions were hidden under the loose bark of some large
tree.

The winter months are hard times for our feathered friends.
Ice and snow cover their usual food supply, and it is only
when hungry that chickadees and other shy birds will approach
a human being. They keep at a distance in the summer when
food is plentiful. Let us then help the birds when winter comes.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 140

Nature’s Friend

“Say what you like, all things love me.
I pick no ﬂowers—That wins the Bee.

The summer’s Moths think my hand one
To touch their wings with Wind and Sun.

The Garden Mouse comes near to play,
Indeed, he turns his eyes away.

The Wren knows well I rob no nest:
When I look in, she still will rest.

The hedge stops cows, or they would come
After my voice, right to my home.

The Horse can tell straight from my lip,
My hand would not hold any whip.

Say what you like, all things love me!
Horse, Cow, and Mouse, Bird, Moth and Bee.

WILLIAM DAVIES

Passing Heroes

WILL HERMAN

HE greatest group of dog heroes, the
TSt. Bernards of the Swiss mountain
passes, is in grave danger of becoming ex-
tinct. There are several reasons for this
most tragic state of affairs.

First is the increasing blindness of these
noble creatures. Constant exposure to the
glaring whiteness of the snow, going on
for successive generations for about ﬁve
hundred years, has weakened the eyes of
these dogs so greatly that it is feared total
blindness will set in before many genera-
tions have passed.

Time and again this group has all but
been wiped out by a sudden storm or ava-
lanche. Time and again a new race has
been bred from two or three of the remain-
ing stock. The true St. Bernard dog is to
be found only in the Alpine Pass, in the
Hospice under the care of the monks. They
have been offered some truly tremendous
amounts for these dogs, but the monks re-
fuse to sell. So it is that the group is one
of the most exclusive and purest of any,
with a pedigree longer than most.

Now comes another terror in the life of
these creatures, .devoted to the service of
mankind. Slowly they are becoming un-
necessary; the telephone, wireless and auto
are beginning to creep in. Roads are being
built and kept clear; the dangers of these
mountain passes which are frozen over for
nine months of the years are being con-
stantly lessened. Soon there will be no need
for the St. Bernards.

The monks and their dog brigade have
saved thousands of lives, as their records
show, over a period of ﬁve hundred years.
Is this, then, to be the end of their careers?

Remarkable improvement made in hand-
ling the trafﬁc in recent years has made
much of the rescue work of the famous Al-
pine monks and their dogs unnecessary. It
was recently reported that they have de-
cided to abandon their famed monastery
and will establish themselves in Tibet in
the mighty Himalayas where they can train
their dogs and give even greater service
to mankind. Ski trails will break the
smooth snows of the Himalayas instead of
the Alps as these monks follow the big
tracks and lusty howls of their dogs.

OUR DUMB

ANIMALS

 

Sept. 1931;

 

THE FAMOUS ST. BERNARD HOSPICE IN THE SWISS ALPS

 

Dogs in Churches

CCORDING to a ruling of the Chan-

cellor of the Norwich Diocese, dogs
may go to church. This decision was made
when an applicant brought a dog with him
to the Consistory Court held in Norwich
Cathedral.

The Chancellor, after remarking that
Mr. Justice Hawkins used to take his dog
into court with him, turned to the owner
of the dog, which was crouching upon his
knee, and said, “Do not try to hide him.
There is good precedent for having a dog
in court and in church.”

The incident brings to mind a miscellany
of references to the old custom of taking
dogs to church. It seems to have been a
common practice in former days, and
ancient church records and accounts con-
tain some quaint entries regarding them.
Such churches, for instance, had dog-doors
cut in the main doors so that dogs could
pass out and in when the latter were closed
during service time.

Dog-tongs were in frequent use, appar-
ently to eject troublesome dogs, and it was
one of the duties of the verger in some
parishes to keep dogs out of the church. In
the West Riding villages, in Yorkshire, be-
tween sixty and seventy years ago, the
verger was often known as the “dogknop-
per,” while in several old church account
books the payment of money “for keeping
ye dogs out of church” is recorded. The
quotation is made from a 17th century
entry in the books of Pancrasweek church,
in North Devon.

There is even a fourteenth century church
where the rails separating the chancel from
the nave are set so close together as to leave
little space between, and this is said to have
been a device of Archbishop Laud to pre-
vent the canine part of the congregation
from penetrating into the sanctuary dur-
ing the sacrament.

Even today, in Scotland and the Border
counties, the custom has not yet died out.
There are many anecdotes told of the High-
land sheep-dogs which form a regular part
of the congregation in the village kirks.
They are the constant companions of their
masters, the shepherds, and accompany them

even into the pews. The Cheviot shepherds,
for instance, order their collies “to clap
down” and the dogs go to sleep. “And
now. . . .” has an electrical effect on them—
the long enforced rest is over. The minister
has to devise many a means of keeping the
dogs in ignorance of the approaching end
of the service, in order to ﬁnish in due
decorum.

Dean Ramsey, in his “Reminiscences of
Scottish Life and Character,” wrote of the
same custom among the shepherds of Suth-
erland. There were, he said, as many dogs
as people in the churches, and they sat out
the Gaelic service with commendable pa-
tience until the last psalm, and then they
began to stretch and prepare to depart.
One congregation, he added, found a way
to hoodwink the sagacious dogs. They sat
during the blessing, and so obtained quiet
and order until the end.

A story which may not be as “tall” as it
sounds at ﬁrst, is told by a north-country-
man. On the Scottish border a number of
Presbyterian shepherds had come to a
Church of England service for a special
sermon. At the end of the sermon the
“Presbyterian” dogs got up ready to walk
out; the “Church of England” dogs waited
for the blessing. Dogs as intelligent as
sheep-dogs might easily have adapted them-
selves to custom, even to the details of the
church service.

The character of the sheep-dog, of course,
makes him a more suitable churchgoer than
most others—he is obedient, not quarrel-
some, quiet, and content to rest during this
interlude in his hard-working week. He
does not abuse his privilege, and is so in-
tegral a part of the population of the sheep
country villages of the North, and so in-
separable from his master, that his pres-
ence seems to be normal and right.

Yet in former days, when the custom was
perhaps universal in England also, the
presence of dogs in church seems to have
been more than a slight nuisance. The

heterogeneous character of the dog-popula-
tion of the English village must have made
their church—going a lively and unruly
proceeding.

M. E. in The Animals Advocate
O

 




 

‘ “—ww ‘ g . V .. V . _. . A- .. . . .
| ‘ i . .. . . , . . ' “ - = ~ m M»-eta-n:'msa~¢§azﬁﬁ§v:m§;azéﬁiiggkmi ~22: A—LLFA Aiw—g—Q;A "n "“ ELM-,1: ‘ ~ 12' w ' ' c.- angst..— ”2 ~....v;,_- ;:..,.. .. V , .
‘ _ . . _ . ‘ . . , ... w, ,H..W«.‘=:=~...§_.. rug—najaczc-L: 3137.137:- rﬂﬂ:x. ,1 1hr: A.,. M — . ‘-‘-—— '

0 UR VD UMB ANIMALS

 

 

Founded by Geo. T. Angell.

Incorporated March, 1868

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds

JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First
of Boston Corporation.
CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President, United Shoe
Machinery Corporation '
PIELI: STOCKTON, President, First National Bank of
os on

Prosecuting Ofﬁcers in Boston
Telephone (Complaints, Ambulances) Longwood 6100
L. WILLARD WALKER, Chief Officer

HARRY L. ALLEN DAVID A. BOLTON
HARVEY R. FULLER HOWARD WILLAND

County Prosecuting Ofﬁcers
HERMAN N. DEAN, Boston
Middlesex, Norfolk and Plymouth
FRED T. VICKERS, Lynn Eastern Essex
WILLIAM W. HASWELL, Methuen Western Essex
THEODORE W. PEARSON, Springﬁeld
Hampden, Hampshire and Franklin
ROBERT L. DYSON, Worcester Worcester
WINFIELD E. DUNHAM, New Bedford Bristol
HAROLD G. ANDREWS, Hyannis
Barnstable, Dukes and Nantucket
T. KING HASWELL, Pittsﬁeld Berkshire
Rest Farm for Horses and Small Animal Shelter,
Methuen
W. W. HASWELL, Superintendent
Women’s Auxiliary of the Mass. S. P. C. A., 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston—MRS. EDITH WASHBURN

CLARKE, Pres.; MRS. A. J. FURBUSH, Treas.; MRS.
AGNES P. FISHER, Ch. Work Com.

Springﬁeld Branch—MRS. DONALD C. KIBBE, Pres.;
MRS. AARON BAGG, Treas.

Winchester Branch—MRS. RICHARD S. TAYLOR,
Pres.; MISS BESSIE SMALL, Treas.

MONTHLY REPORT OF SOCIETY
AND BRANCHES

Miles traveled by humane Oﬂicers . 15,008
Cases investigated ............... 495
Animals examined ............... 5,955
Animals placed in homes. . . ...... 151
Lost animals restored to owners. . . 37
Number of prosecutions ........ . 1
Number of convictions ........... 1
Horses taken from work. ........ 13
Horses humanely put to sleep ..... 43

Small animals humanely put tO sleep 1,654

Stock—yards and Abattoirs

Animals inspected ............... 58,197
Cattle, swine and sheep humanely
put to sleep ................... 14

The Massachusetts Society for the Pre-
vention Of Cruelty to Animals has been re-
membered in the Wills Of Mrs. Andree E.
Chevalier of Brookline, Mary Bell Fraser
of Boston, and Mrs. Elizabeth Town of Cam-
bridge.

November 13, 1934.

Please remember the Massachusetts S.
P. C. A. in your will.

 

ANGELL MEMORIAL ANIMAL
HOSPITAL

and Dispensary for Animals
184 Longwood Avenue Telephone, Longwood 6100

Veterinarians

. VDAILEY, v.M.D., Chief of Staﬁ

. SCHNEIDER, v.M.D., Asst. Chief
. SCHROEDER, D.v.M.

. SCHNELLE, v.M.D.

. MUNSON, v.M.D.

. BLAKELY, v.M.D.

HARRY L. ALLEN, Superintendent
Springﬁeld Branch

53-57 Bliss Street, Springﬁeld, Mass.
THEODORE W. PEARSON, General Manager
Veterinarians

A. R. EVANS, v.M.D.
H. L. SMEAD, D.v.M.

CHEERS
bowwma

 

 

 

HOSPITAL REPORT FOR OCTOBER
Including Springﬁeld Branch

Hospital Dispensary
Cases entered 892 Cases 2,964
Dogs 640 Dogs 2,373
Cats 234 Cats 536
Birds 9 Birds 52
Horses 9 Goats 2

Rabbit 1
Operations 985

Hospital cases since Opening, Mar.

1, 1915 ........................ 124,209
Dispensary Cases ................ 290,895
Total ......................... 415,104

The Month in the Springﬁeld Branch

Cases entered in Hospital .............. 116
Cases entered in Dispensary ........... 411
Operations ............................. 176

Medal for Noted Musician

For plunging into the cold water of the
pond on the Boston Public Garden one day
late in the fall to rescue a stranded pigeon,
Mr. Raﬁ‘aele Martino, well known as the
leader of the Eighteenth Century Orchestra
and also as conductor of the FERA oper-
atic orchestra in Boston, was awarded the
humane medal of the Massachusetts
S. P. C. A.

$500 in Prizes for Traps

For the eighth consecutive year the
American Humane Association of Albany,
N. Y., announces its annual humane trap
contest which will close April 30, 1935. The
contest is Open to everyone and contestants
are urged to write to the Association for
further details. The judges, eminent men
in the ﬁeld Of conservation, will award six
prizes, totaling $500. Prizes of $150 and
$75 will be given for the best traps for tak-
ing animals alive and unhurt. For traps
of the leg-gripping type, holding without
injury, the prizes will be $100 and $50, and
for traps of the killing type the prizes are
$85 and $40.

Humane traps are being used by trappers
to good advantage. They ﬁnd that un-

marred pelts are more easily marketable.
The Association favors the alive and unhurt
type of trap, which is easily carried. When
the animal is taken the pelt is unmarred by
the vicious jaws of the steel trap, and there
is no useless killing Of unwanted animals.

Page 185

The Coming Auxiliary Fair

HE all-day Fair of the Women’s Aux-
iliary of the Massachusetts S. P. C. A.
will be held at the Copley Plaza Hotel, Bos-
ton, Wednesday, December 12. Everybody
is welcome to attend and, from present pros-
pects, it looks as if those who do not will
miss something decidedly worth while.
Headed by Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke,
president, a large committee is working
hard to present unusual features and insure
a marked success for the event. Luncheon,

‘ under the direction of Mrs. Charles C. Hoyt,

will be served at 11:30 A.M. From 2 RM.
on, bridge will be enjoyed under the joint
chairmanship Of Mrs. Roy Perry and Mrs.
Edward Brown. Miss Josephine Cericotti,
in costume, will be the guest artist at the
entertainment. Horoscopes will be read by
Miss Ellen Gerville.

There will be a ﬂower table, with all the
new sedums in fancy pots, in charge of Miss
Dorothy Gray, a food table under the direc-
tion of Mrs. Harry Cole, and also candy,
household, white elephant and children’s
tables.

Contributions Of merchandise or money
may be forwarded to the treasurer, Mrs. A.
J. Furbush, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston.

Please remember: Date, December 12;
place, Copley Plaza Hotel, Boston; beneﬁt,
Angell Memorial Animal Hospital.

For the Horses’ Christmas

The Massachusetts S. P. C. A. will Ob—
serve its annual custom Of distributing
Christmas dinners for horses on the Satur—
day before the holiday. At the most ad-
vantageous places available, generous bags
Of feed will be given to drivers, or placed on
their trucks for home consumption. The
horses of “peddlers’ row” will be visited
and each supplied with a twenty-pound bag
of oats, cut-up apples and carrots. Any
surplus will be carried to stables where it
will be most acceptable. So many have
contributed towards this holiday celebration
in the past that we feel they will very
gladly send a donation, however small, to
insure its repetition.

A Sad Affair

Many readers of Our Dumb Animals and
others must have read Of the cruel and
brutal treatment of a dog at Winston—Salem
by Dr. C. W. Cranford, veterinarian. The
story is too horrible to relate. The outcome
of the trial Of this veterinarian was that he
was sentenced to pay a ﬁne of $25 and the
costs in municipal court on each Of the
charges of nuisance and assault at the time
of his conviction of cruelty and also sen-
tenced to four months on the county farm.
Our representative, Mr. Seymour Carroll,
of Columbia, S. C., did everything in his
power to further the cause of justice in
bringing this man to trial, even offering. to
pay the fee Of the lawyer to prosecute hlm.
This was not needed as we understand a
lawyer cheerfully volunteered his services.

Drinking fountains for dogs have been in-
stalled at thirty railway stations in Berlin.
—Dogdom

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 92
Let Us Not Hurt

ELLA C. FORBES

Let us not hurt the little, harmless crea-
tures;
They have the right to live, like you and I.
There is, already, for the little fellows
So much of cruelty.

Theirs is the footstep never free from

caution;
The fear that lays its clutch upon the
heart,
The strain of eye and ear for lurking
danger,

The terror-stricken start.

Let us be kindly then, to fur and feather;
The little things that have no power to
speak.
We are so strong; with us the more
advantage;
They are so small and weak.

No Kicking Allowed up
There

CARROLL VAN COURT

There was a man in our town,
Who used to beat his horse;
He also kicked his dog around,

And never felt remorse.

He died and went to heaven, and
St. Peter said, “I fear

“If we should let you enter that
“You wouldn’t like it here!”

Did This Horse Think?

R. G. SEBRING

N the farm we once had a horse that

developed the habit of getting out of
the stable unassisted. After having been
t1ed securely to the manger with a halter
strap and with the stable door closed and
latched, he would free himself, and later
we would ﬁnd him prowling about the yard
WIth the halter strap dangling loose from
the halter. This occurred several times.

One day I decided to ﬁnd out how he
accomplished this feat. Concealing myself
1n the stable I watched long and patiently,
but to no avail. He was a sly old rogue and
never attempted to free himself while I was
there, probably having sensed my presence
in the stable.

I tried again. This time I stealthily ap-
proached the stable from the outside and
peered through a crack.

We usually tied the halter strap in a half
bow-knot, leaving the end of the strap
hanging loose.

Before long I saw the horse seize the end
of the strap with his teeth and pull out the
loop. Thus free, he walked around to the
stable door where he fumbled with the latch
until he slid it back, then walked out.

Unknown to us he had probably watched
us tie and untie the strap many times as
well as latch and unlatch the door. And
while such things as knots and latches pre-
sent no problem to the human mind, they
are so decidedly outside the province of a
horse’s mind, that it seemed a bit of clever
equestrian thinking on his part to be able
to extricate himself unassisted.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Deer Have Severe Winter

EDWARD J. G. TUCKER

E are so used to the “hunter and

hunted” relationship between man
and deer that it comes as a pleasant sur-
prise to read of the hunted running to the
hunter for food, and protection against the
ravages of wolves. Animal lovers, especi—
ally, will be touched by this account from
the north of Canada of a common bond be-
tween man and animal in isolated settle-
ments.

In the outposts of the North, settlers have
found times very hard owing to the long
severe winter and the heavy fall of snow.
This year, too, the deer have found food
scarce due to the heavy snowfall. An even
greater danger than starvation faces these
defenseless animals when the snow is very
deep. It then become-s almost impossible
for the timid creatures to escape from an
enemy common to man and beast alike—the
northern timber wolf.

Driven by hunger and fear of the wolves,
the deer have come into the settled districts
of the north for food and shelter. So tame
have the-y become that they have remained
near the settlements and have even eaten
without fear from the hands of boys and
girls. The animals seem to know that they
will be protected and cared for until the
snow goes and the green buds and tender
shoots upon which they feed, begin to
sprout.

The deep snow handicaps the deer in its
ﬂight to such an extent that boys on snow-
shoes have been able to catch them on the
run, as they ﬂounder through drifts. Here
we see one lad who has caught up to a deer.
The boys do not harm them but let them go
after feeding them.

One northern settler relates that he has
had difﬁculty in shooing the deer off his
property and one evening two of them sur-
prised his wife and children while at their
meal by looking in through an open kitchen
window.

The Department of Game and Fisheries

THE BOYS LET THE DEER GO
AFTER FEEDING THEM

 

June, 1931;

keeps a protecting eye upon these animals.
Recently a game overseer was sent up north
to check up on reports on the scarcity of
food for the deer and to leave hay for them
on the clearings, if necessary.

A memorial drinking fountain for horses,
at the junction of Wawona Street and the
Great Highway, was recently dedicated by
the San Francisco S. P. C. A. It will serve
many saddle horses on this bridle path.

 

“Betsy Easom”

ETSY EASOM” who died at the age

of ten, March last, was the beloved pet
of Mr. and Mrs. Russell Easom of San
Diego, Cal.

Betsy would never associate with other
dogs. She knew many words and her mas-
ter avows that she would clearly say, “No,
I won’t.” Her outstanding accomplishment,
however, was actually playing her own
accompaniment and singing her song. She
knew that this pleased her friends and
would run at once to the bench and beg that
it be drawn forward, so she could play and
sing. Her voice would run from low to
high and her paws would go violently over
the keys just as she had seen the hands of
her beloved mistress do. When she had ﬁn-
ished she would jump down and await the
applause, and as quickly jump to her place
and repeat the act, expressing her pleasure
as deﬁnitely as would a child who enjoys
showing off.

The grief in the household and among her
friends is as deep and genuine as though
Betsy were indeed in human form—so
human, so loving, so beloved. The following

lines were written by a friend in her
memory.

Little Betsy Easom

I know you are safe, but I miss you,
I know you are free from all pain;
I know, though my heart be aching,
That my loss is only your gain.

The joys of which you were the center!
The laughter entwined with your bark!
Yes, I shall miss you at daybreak and

sunset,
Without you the way will seem dark.

But Betsy, my Betsy, I’m knowing
All life is a. spark of that One,

So your life cannot end with this passing,
Your real life has only begun.

L. MAUDE ERWIN

 




 

 

 

 

Apr. 1934

 

 

Easter

MISS Z. I. DAVIS

The woodlands now are bright and gay,
Where little wild things romp and play;
The well—groomed flock of Bob—White quail,
Walk placidlg across the dale.

“I’m not'afraid,” the wild birds sing,
Until the pines with music ring;

“I’m not afraid,” the woodchuch smiles,
That sunshine and fresh. air beguiles.
Afar, afield, in jungles strange, ’
Where timber wolf and roebuch range,
All in their own odd way rejoice,
Together in a kindred voice:

“I’m happy I was ever born,

Just to be glad on Easter morn.”

Animal Obedience
WILL HERMAN

E, who pay so little attention to the words of our parents

and to the sound advice of our instructors and teachers,
should take example from the less intelligent creatures of the
forests and ﬁelds.

If the babies of the forests do not mind their parents, dire
misfortune is in store for them. The parents, knowing this,
use various methods to make their children mind which, in
many instances, remind us of human parents.

For example, the bear will instruct her little cubs not to
leave the Vicinity of the den while she is gone. She is going
to get some food, and they are to play and romp and wrestle
but under no circumstances are they to leave the den.

Then the wise old bear leaves—to hide behind a tree. For a
short while the cubs wrestle and romp and play but then they
become curious. They decide to take a look about and see where
their mother is. They soon ﬁnd out.

As Seon as they leave the protecting shelter of the den, old
Mother Bear comes out from behind that tree and gives her
cubs several cuffs and blows which aren’t in the least playful.
The young ones yelp loudly, and after'a few such lessons, the

1 bear cubs pay attention to the wise advice of their parents.

The partridge babies, at a signal from their mother, will
hide so expertly that ﬁnding them is almost impossible
Throughout an entire day the parents will command their
babies to hide—under leaves, under stones, behind twigs—and
the young partridges will hurry. Should they not be prompt
enough, a few peeks from the parent will teach them obedience.

Geese ﬁll the grassy village squares in central Europe, eat
grass by the roadsides and are taken to graze in distant pas-
tures, says the Christian Science Monitor. Many a little girl
and little boy begins his life work by herding geese; and,
when there is no child about, the task falls to grandma. Artists
of many ages and many lands have enjoyed painting geese and
their tiny tenders, and in the most famous museums you will
ﬁnd statues of geese occupying prominent places.

Geese play a Vital role in the household economy of village
families. It is they that come to the rescue when something
extra is needed. Schoolbooks, children’s shoes, holiday pres-
ents, wedding gifts, unavoidable trips into town are paid for
with the goose money.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

   

“Suzanne Mayflower Taylor”

N a beautiful home bordering the Middlesex Fells. Reserva-

tion, “Suzanne” was born April 17, 1915. She at once made
a place for herself in the heart of the family.

When she was about three months old, it was decided to
have her picture taken. The morning had been spent in a fruit-
less endeavor to have her pose, as she scampered about the
lawn, avoiding the camera at every turn. Suddenly she ran,
sprang into her little roadster; sat down; looked pleasant, and
the camera clicked.

Since that day many beautiful pictures of her have been
taken, but the one shown her-e was her own arrangement of her
dear little self. She was a charter member of the Winchester
Auxiliary of the Massachusetts S. P. C. A. ; paid her dues
promptly; attended the board and regular meetings of the So—
ciety, and apparently manifested a keen interest in humane
work.

The expression in her beautiful starry eyes, as she lay so
comfortably in her basket, seemed to convey the wish that her
membership be continued until all helpless creatures should
ﬁnd shelter. The last social function of which she was a part
was the Wayside Sale of the Auxiliary. She was too tired to
mingle with the guests; too weary to be carried about for
adoration; or sit on the stairs, the center of attraction, as she
would have done in other years. Her friends enquired for her
and found her upstairs, resting. They loved and petted her;
and some, as they caressed her, undoubtedly realized that it
was for the last time. She failed rapidly and, despite the Visit
of her kind veterinarian, went quietly to sleep. She was nearly
eighteen and a half years old.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page181;
Our Dumb Animals

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston Ofﬁce; 180 Longwood Av-
enue, Boston, Mass., to which all communications
should be addressed.

Dr. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON, Editor
WILLIAM M. MORRILL, Assistant

DECEMBER, 1 934

FOR TERMS, see back cover.

AGENTS to take orders for Our Dumb Animals are
wanted everywhere. Liberal commissions are offered.

EDITORS of all periodicals who receive this pub-
lication this month are invited to reprint any of the
articles with or without credit.

MANUSCRIPTS relating to animals, particularly
prose articles of about three hundred words are solic-
ited. We do not Wish to consider prose manuscripts
longer than 800 words, nor verse in excess of thirty-
six lines. The shorter the better. All manuscripts
should be typewritten and an addressed envelope with
full return postage enclosed with each offering.

 

 

 

 

The Audubon Society and
Trapping

T the meeting of the National Associa-
tion of Audubon Societies, held Octo-
ber 29-30, the following Resolution was pre-
sented, but failed to pass. Those who read
last summer the two articles in Our Dumb
Animals for and against the trapping at the
Rainey Sanctuary will be interested to know
of the action taken:

Whereas: it is anomalous that the Na-
tional Association of Audubon Societies, in-
corporated for the protection of birds and
animals should be engaged in trapping ani-
mals on its Rainey Wild Life Sanctuary for
Birds and Animals; and

Whereas: such trapping is excused by the
Directors on the ground that it is necessary
for the protection of the birds on the Rainey
Sanctuary; and

Whereas: the Directors offer no proof
that the trapping of the animals of the
sanctuary is necessary for the preservation
of the birds of the sanctuary; and

Whereas: competent scientists have de-
clared that there is little, or no, competition
between the animals and the birds of the
Rainey Sanctuary;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RE-
SOLVED by the members of the National
Association of Audubon Societies assembled
in annual meting, that the Board of Direc-
tors be urged to discontinue trapping of ani—
mals on the Rainey Sanctuary for a period
of three years, in order to determine the ef-
fect upon the preservation of the birds.
(Even the plea of a one-year discontinuance

of trapping was not approved by the Direc-
tors.)

We have been told that the secretary of
the Association and other members of the
organization were not antagonistic to the
Resolution.

At this meeting Dr. Pearson, after more
than thirty years of service in the Associa-
tion, presented his resignation as president.

There is in every animal’s eye a dim mi-
rage and gleam of humanity, a ﬂash of
strange light through which their life looks
out and up to our great mystery of com-
mand over them, and claims the fellowship
of the creature, if not the soul. RUSKIN

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

The E R A Cattle

ETTERS and complaints have been

coming into humane societies relative
to the condition of the unfortunate cattle
which have been shipped from the West to
eastern states for pasturage and ultimate
slaughter. The Massachusetts Society for
the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals has
had its share of complaints of the Govern-
ment’s way of dealing with the situation.
Here is an illustration of what happened:

One farmer agreed on August 24 to take
some 200 head of starving cattle from the
West. The animals arrived not till Octob-
er 5 when the pasturage by that time was
gone, due largely to heavy frosts. The far-
mer tried to call the attention of the ERA
ofﬁcials to the situation but it seemed
that everyone who should have had the au—
thority to do something about it had re-
signed. To quote from an editorial in the
Worcester Gazette of October 22:

“If it were merely a matter of supplying
food for the cattle, the problem would be
comparatively simple. If it were merely a
matter of investigating to discover who in
ERA administrative circles hereabouts is
responsible for the apparent neglect, that
also should not be diﬂicult.

“But the trouble goes deeper. Those
cattle were brought to Massachusetts un-
der the auspices of a Washington admini-
stration. Cattle were moved East in haste
-—but without apparent speed—and the far-
mer upon whose land they are. starving
can’t even ﬁnd a proper ofﬁcial with whom
to register a protest. The unfortunate part
is that those—even cattle—whom the mul-
tifarious government bureaus are supposed
to aid, frequently lose out.”

This special farmer was also promised
one dollar a head to transport the cattle
from the railroad station to his farm.
Someone agreed to do it for half that and
he lost that job. Meanwhile he had spent
$355 in wire fencing to care for the cattle
and he is thus several hundred dollars out of
pocket with no chance, it would seem at
present, ever to get his money back. Had
the cattle been delivered on time, according
to the contract, he might have made a little
out of the deal, though one dollar a month
for pasturing cattle, it seems to us, prom-
ises loss instead of gain.

Our ofﬁcers have done all in their power
to save the animals from suffering, have de-
stroyed some animals too far gone to be al—
lowed to live, and have tried to reach Gov-
ernment ofﬁcials to see what could be done
to remedy the deplorable situation. We can
say only this that we have had word that
all the animals shipped into the State will
be slaughtered by November 15. A report
from Maine tells a far worse story of suf-
fering and hunger and ill-treatment of the
cattle received.

The waste of money involved in the Gov-
ernment’s attempt to look after the starv-
ing western cattle must have been enor-
mous. Carloads of them were shipped
through to Boston, slaughtered, the carcas-
ses boned out, and then the meat shipped
back to Buffalo to be canned, as no sufﬁ-
cient facilities were at hand here for the
canning process.

Please remember the American Humane
Education Society in your will.

 

Dec. 1981;

A Humane Organization and
a Medical School

UCH is said from time to time about
humane organizations furnishing ani-
mals for vivisection to medical schools. In
Chicago the ﬁne Animal Pound, virtually
built through the untiring efforts of the Chi-

. cago Humane Education Society, is com-

pelled by a city ordinance to deliver for
purposes of experimentation to medical
schools a certain percentage of its animals.
Twenty—two thousand have been so used
since 1931.

In Louisville, Kentucky, the same ar-
rangement had to be made before the
Animal Rescue League could gain control
of the pound and save it from the
wretched management under which it
had formerly operated. During the terms
of the medical school it meant turning
over to the school 18 animals a week.
But, in such circumstances no better ar-
rangements could be made than have been
in operation there. A trained nurse, sent
by the League, is always present when these
animals are being used. She sees that each
animal is complete-1y anaesthetized before
the experiment, watches the various stages
of the operations and guards against all un-
necessary suffering.‘ The writer of these
words visited this school and was given a
cordial welcome by the institution to witness
the procedure and to address the: medical
students. While no humane society would
turn over any animal for vivisection unless
in order to save a larger number of animals
from a city pound’s heartless and cruel man-
agement, if it is compelled to give up part
of them, we do not see- how a better plan
could be adopted than that entered into by
the Animal Rescue League of Louisville.
If a whole loaf is impossible, it means much,
at least, to get the larger part of it.

H elpers That Help

Two of our good friends and members,
Mr. and Mrs. Frank H. Cheever of Spring-
ﬁeld, have showed their deep interest in the
efforts that have been made in Massachu-
setts to abolish the cruelties connected with
the steel trap. To help in the campaign to
secure a NO vote on the referendum placed
on the ballot at the election November 6th,
they hired two men, at no small expense, to
secure signatures which were necessary for
placing on the ballot the referendum; then
paid for pamphlets and leaﬂets and a thou-
sand letters which were sent out to differ-
ent people requesting them to vote NO, the
vote the Humane Trapping Council and all
the humane societies have been endeavor-
ing to obtain. If all lovers of animals the
world over were to do, even in preportion to
their ability, what these two loyal friends
have done, how swiftly the humane cause
would be recording its triumphs!

Humane Workers’ Fund

We are receiving gifts to the American
Humane Education Society as a trust fund,
the interest to be used for the beneﬁt. of
ﬁeld missionaries and others who have
spent their lives in promoting humane edu-
cation. We will welcome your contribution.
Please make checks payable to the Treas-
urer, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston.

 




 

 

u U. S_Trade Mark, Registered L

1 ANOELL m 1868.AND FOR FORTy.ONE

The Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

The American Humane Education Society

The American Band of Mercy

I would not enter on my list of friends,
Though graced with polished manners and ﬁne sense,
Yet wanting sensibility, the man
Who needlessly sets foot upon a worm.
—COWPER

    
 

GLORY TO
GOD,
PEACE on EARTH,

  
  
    
 

AND Mencv 1'0“
EVERY lema
CREATURE.

 
   
 

Published monthly by the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood, Massachusetts

Entered as_second-class.matter, June 29, 1917, at the Post Ofﬁce at Norwood, Mass., under the Act of March 3, 1879
Acceptance for mailing at spec1al rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 3, 1917, authorized, July 13, 1919

Boston Ofﬁce, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

 

Vol. 67

August, 1934

No. 8

 

One cannot fail to note the remarkably
quick passage through Parliament of the
Rodeo Bill summarized in another column.
That species of animal torture scarcely ob-
tained a foothold in England, so strong was
the revolt against it.

Although the echoes of the 1934 Be Kind
to Animals Week and Humane Sunday are
still being heard, it is not too soon to think
of next year and to plan for adequate cele-
brations. The dates have been set: Humane
Sunday, April 7; Be Kind to Animals Week,
April, 8—13, 1935.

Our heartiest congratulations to Miss
Marshall Saunders of Toronto, whose world-
famous book, “Beautiful Joe,” was a prize
story of our own American Humane Educa-
tion Society, upon being decorated by King
George as a Commander of the Order of
the British Empire.

The University of London Animal Wel-
fare Society has started a vigorous cam-
paign of information and agitation against
the use of the steel trap in Great Britain.
The Mayor of Torquay presided at a pro-
test meeting in that city. Dr. A. H. Kirk-
man stated the steel trap catches 200,000
rabbits in the British Isles every night in
winter.

In every city, village and hamlet through-
out New South Wales, Australia, the clergy
of Protestant churches were circularized
and asked to make special reference to the
subject of kindness to animals in their ad-
dresses on Humane Sunday. This co-opera-
tion was willingly given, in many instances
the full sermon being based on some phase
of humane work.

Fifteen thousand essays—13,000 in gram-
mar schools and 2,000 in high schools—that
is what the pupils in Buffalo, N. Y., did in
connection with Be Kind to Animals Week,
stimulated by prizes offered by the Erie
County Humane Society. The contest was
under the able direction of Miss Margaret
F. Rochester, one of the outstanding lead—
ers in humane education in the country
today.

Humane Slaughter of Our Food Animals

E are very glad to publish a brief

report sent us of an interview with

the representatives of the Institute
of American Meat Packers, June 5, 1934, by
a group of women in Chicago who have be-
come deeply interested in this question and
whose inﬂuence is bound to be a notable fac-
tor in securing humaner methods in the
slaughter of our food animals. Of course,
we missed from the list of those present the
late Mrs. Charlotte L. Hunt, president of
the Chicago Humane Education Society.
She would have been there had not her un-
timely death prevented.

The Institute was represented by Messrs.
H. D. Tefft and R. W. Regensburger. The
committee consisted of Mrs. Krahl, Illinois
Congress of Parent Teachers; Mrs. J. Bald—
win, humane chairman of Chicago Cook
County Federation of Women’s Clubs; Mrs.
Cornell, North Side representative of Chi-
cago Humane Education Society; Mrs. H.
E. Joseph, Taxpayers’ and Voters’ League
of Illinois; Mrs. E. C. Dow, International
Humane League; Mr. W. B. Wernecke,
Anti-Cruelty Society; and Mr. L. Fine,
attorney.

This committee was received courteously
by Messrs. Tef’f't and Regensburger, substi-
tuting for Mr. Wesley Hardenburgh, vice-
president of the Institute. Mrs. Dow spoke
brieﬂy of the advance made in humane
slaughter of the food animals in other coun-
tries, stating that Sweden for many years
had made humane killing compulsory, that
in certain sections of Germany it had for
generations been compulsory, that this was
also true in late years of Holland, and that
Scotland had secured legislation making it
compulsory for the greater part of the food
animals. That a bill for it was pending in
the South African Parliament, and is prob—
ably passed by now. That though the
American killing problem is rendered more
difﬁcult by the number of animals and their
comparative wildness, American inventive-
ness should be able to ﬁnd a solution to the
question, if the American meat packers so
desire. That in countries where humane
killing is installed, meat consumption
jumped 25 to 50%. That the plea for hu-

mane killing is not purely local to Chicago,
or a passing sentimentalism, but is backed
by many organizations as well as indi-
viduals, notably the American Humane Edu—
cation Society (Boston, Mass.), the Latham
Foundation (Oakland, Calif.), the Women’s
Humane Club of S. California and the
Millenium Guild. In proof of these state-
ments a large roll of signed International
Humane League petitions was submitted for
inspection as well as the smaller individual
protests collected by the American Humane
Education Society.

Mr. Tefl’t stated that much research work
had been done, and at the Cudahy Plant,
Milwaukee, Wis., it was thought two years
ago that a successful method of humane
killing had been found, but the meat showed
blood streaks, and the monetary loss was so
great that the method was abandoned. He
spoke of carrying animals in slings for
stunning, and of the Leduc method. He
seemed vague as to what progress had been
accomplished since 1930, but stated that re-
search was being carried on assiduously—
that humane slaughter would be installed
shortly.

Mr. Fine stated that we all realized that
people would eat meat, but that this cam-
paign to reduce meat consumption until the
installation of humane killing would con-
tinue, emphasizing the fact that speed and
money were not the only considerations in
the industry. He denounced Kosher killing
as unspeakably cruel.

Mrs. Baldwin spoke feelingly of one visit
to the stock-yards, particularly in reference
to the slaughter of swine.

Mr. Wernecke asked information relative
to his problems as a stock raiser.

Mr. Teﬂ’t asked for any information that
could be obtained from Germany on humane
killing, as that nation seemed to have found
a method which could be used here. Efforts
will be made to obtain this.

Several times the question was asked
when will humane killing be installed here,
as if it is installed in the Chicago yards, it
will undoubtedly be adopted in the abattoirs
throughout America and Canada.

This conference lasted almost two hours.

 

 




 

 

 

 

FREE Write {or
BOOKLET NO. 652

   
  
   
  

F . on the practical re-
Of moval of worms in
DOGS Dogs of all breeds

and ages.

    

,woRM CAPSULES

eﬂectz'oely remove

large Roundworms and Hookworms

Th safe, easy-to-give worm treatment.
Degendable. For free booklet WRITE T0

PARKE, DAVIS 8; CO.

Du}: N -5 8-E A mmal I nduxtry Dept, Detroit, M 1:];
-— Drug Stores Sell Parke-Davis Products.—

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

HUGH
‘ KING
’ j. HARRIS

 

 

“UPON THE BASIS OF UNDERSTANDING
SHALL BE FOUNDED HUMANITY”
Pepper,a an intelligent terrier, tells

his life from his ﬁrst recollection, on

through escapades, dangers, myster-
ies, and delights, in a way to hold
the attention of all ages.

For the dog, what “BLACK BEAUTY” has
been for the horse.

$1.50

LOTHROP, LEE & SHEPARD CO.
126 Newbury St. Boston

For sale wherever books are sold -

 

 

 

 

 

 

THIS SPACE
CONTRIBUTED

 

 

 

 

 

 

CUTICUBA

Shaving Cream

Produces a rich, creamy lather that
remains moist throughout the shave.
At your dealers or sent postpaid on receipt
of 35c. Address: Cuticura Laboratories,
Malden, Mass.

RAAA

 

 

 

VVV‘

 

 

 

 

Since 1832

J. S. WATERMAN & SONS, INC.

ﬁﬂnhertakers

BOSTON—BROOKLINE—CAMBRIDGE
City and Out-of-Town Service

 

 

Humane literature and Band of Mercy Supplies

For Sale at 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass, at these prices, postpaid.
Titles in bold-face type are of books or booklets

The Great Cruelty, summary of Dr. Rowley’s address on humane slaughtering .................. Free

Our Dumb Animals, 1933, bound volume $1.00
Our Dumb Animals, January to Decem-
ber, 1929, 1931, and 1932, bound in

cloth, special, each ................... .75
Colored Posters, 17 x 28 inches, with

attractive pictures and verses, six in

the set ............................. 1.00
Be Kind to Animals Blotters, 61/8x3% ..$0.50 per 100

About the Horse

Black Beauty (English), cloth, 45 cents; paper, 20 cts.
The Shame of It—Mutilating the horse

by setting up his tail. Dr. Rowley’s

protest against this cruelty for fash-

ion ’s sake. Four illus., 4 pp. ........ Free
What Constitutes Cruelty, Francis H.

Rowley ............................. $0.30 per 100
Humane Horse Book, 32 pp., 5 cts. ., or 5. 00
The Horse—Treatment of Sores; etc... -.60 “ “
Humane Education Leaﬂet, N0. 5. ...... .50 “ “
The Horse’s Prayer .................... .30 “ “
The Bell of Atri, Poem by Longfellow .. .50 “ “

About the Dog

Beautiful Joe, new, iDlluS., $1. 50 .......... small, 50 cts.
Distemper in Dogs, Dr Schneider ...... Free
Rabies VS. Running Fits, Dr. Schneider . Free

Eulogy on the Dog, by Vest, post— card . $1.00 per 100
The D0g——Its Care in Health and Disease .60

Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 3 and 4 .50 “ “

What the Chained Dog Says ........... .50 “ “

The Story of Barry ................... .30 “ “
About the Bird

The Birds of God, 318 pp., illus. ...... cloth, $0.45

The Trial of the Birds, play .......... $2. 00 per 100
Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 1 and 2 .50
How the Birds Help the Farmer ......
The Air-gun and the Birds ............

.50 (( ‘5
.50 “ “

~ About the Cat

The Cat—«Its Care in Health and Disease $0. 60 per 100
Surplus Cats .......................... .50

The Cat in Literature ................ .50 “ “
Do Not Leave Your Cat to Starve ...... .50 “ “
“The Beggar Cat,” post-card, 6 cts. doz. .50 “ “

About Other Animals

Prince Rudolf’s Quest, Kenniston, 150

pp., Special ........................ boards, 50 cts.
The Strike at Shane’s, cloth, 30 cts. paper, 7cts.
For Pity’s Sake ...................... per, 5cts.
Michael Brother of Jerry, Jack London, pcloth, 75 cts.
First Aid to Animals, Dr. Schneider, 8 pp. $1. 00 per 100
What is the Jack London Club? .03
Foreword from “Michael Brother of

Jerry” .............................. .30 “ “
Gripped in the Teeth of Steel, 2 pp. 1.00 “ “
How to Kill Animals Humanely, 4 pp 1.00 “ “
Leaﬂets, N0. 6, Animals .............. .50 “ “
Leaﬂets, No. 7, Farm Animals ........ .50 “ “
Hints on the Care of Cows ............ .50 “ “
Rules for the Care of Poultry ......... .60 “ “
Ways of Kindness .................... .50 “ “

Humane Education

The Humane Bulletin, for use in schools,

DD 2 cents each; ten for $1.00
Care and Kindness for Our Animal

Friends, 29 pp., paper covers, many

illus. ................. 15 cents each ; seven for $1.00
Kindness Picture Book, 32 pp., 15 cts. ; seven for $1.00
The Teacher’s pHelper in Humane Edu-

cation, 32p ......................
Humane Educpation—for Parents and

Teachers, 20 pp. ...................
An Early Start to Kindness, Lucia F.

Gilbert, 48 pp. For ﬁrst and second

each, 10 cts.
each, 10 cts.

grades .............................. each, 10 cts.
Picture Lesson Cards, each 10 cts., set

of eight ............................ 35 cts.
“Be Kind to Animals” pennants ....... each, 25 cts.
“Be Kind to Animals” placards ........ each, 3 cts.
The Humane Idea, Dr. Francis H.

Rowley ................ cloth, 35 cts. , paper, 15 cts.
Friends and Helpers (selections for

school use), Sarah J. Eddy .......... cloth, 96 cts.
Animals as Seen by the Poets, Guy
Richardson, 32 pp. ...... cloth, 35 cts. ; paper, 10 cts.
Address to Boston Public Schools ...... $2.00 per 100
Lessons on Kindness to Animals ...... 3.00 “ “
The B—K—T—A—Club, play, 3 cts. each; ten for 25c.
Fred Changes His Mind, play,5cts. each; six for 25c.
“And a Little Child Shall Lead Them,’
payl .................... 3 cts. each; ten for 25 cts.
Friends of Fur and Feather, play, .
3 cts. each; ten for 25 cts.
Humane Exercises for use in Schools

(1934) ............................. $1.50 per 100
Humane Day in Schools, with class-room
projects, 8 pp. ...................... 2.00 “ “

Humane Education the Vital Need, Dr.

Rowley, Short radio address, 3 cts. each; 1.50 “ “
Our Little Brothers and Sisters, sermon

for boys and girls, by Dr. Jefferson. .50 “ ‘f
Humane Education, What to Teach and

How to Teach It .................... . ,
Outlines of Study in Humane Education 1.50 “ “

Early Lessons in Kindness or Cruelty .. .50 “ “
A Talk with the Teacher .............. .50 “ “
Our Love for Animals, a short radio ad-

dress .................... 5 cts. each; 2.50 “ “
Hints for Humane Sunday ............ .75 “ “
A Festival of Tender Mercies .......... .50 “ “
The Coming Education ..; ............. .30 “ “
A Great Prophecy, Dr. Rowley ........ Free
American College Presidents and the

American Humane Education Society . . Free

Band of Mercy

“Be Kind to Animals” Buttons, three
styles—Band of Mercy, Humane So-
ciety, or S. P. C. A. ................ $1.00 per 100

Buttons—white star on blue ground with
gilt letters and border, one cent each 1.00

‘5 (S

Badges, gold ﬁnish, large, 10 cts. ........ small, 5 cts.
“Band of Mercy” Pennant ........... 35 ctS.
Songs of Happy Life, with music, S.

J. Eddy ............................. 50 cts.
Songs ofy Happy Life (56 pages, words

only) ............................... $3. 00 per 100
Band of Mercy Membership Card ......
How to Form Bands of Mercy ........ .50 “ “

£6 6‘

Does it Pay, Story of one Band of Mercy .30

Please enclose remittance with orders for less than $1

AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY, 180 Longwood Ave., Boston, Mass.

 

 

ON BEHALF

still in great demand.

 

 

Best Humane Films!

Made for the M. S. P. C. A. in 1933 by the University Film Foundation,
Showing the activities of the Angell Animal Hospital of the Massachusetts
S. P. C. A., Boston, scenes at the Society’s Rest Farm for Horses, Methuen,
and glimpses of the Society’s Animal Shelters.

THE BELL OF ATRI

Made for the American Humane Education Society some years ago, but

State whether regular 35 mm, or 16 mm. is required

Terms on application to Secretary, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston

OF ANIMALS

Two reels, 30 minutes.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




AND THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY

THE MASSACHUSETTS SOCIETY FOR THE
. PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THREE (RIDERLESS) BOSTON POLICE HORSES RETIRED TO MASS. S. P. C. A. FARM

 

 

 

 

IWMCE

IO CENTS

 

 

 




 

 

Dec. 1931;

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

 

A BREAKFAST SNACK IN THE HIGH SIERRAS

 

Sir Walter Scott’s Love for Animals

REV. ARTHUR HEDLEY

ANY articles have been written, and

at least one book, on the affection of

Sir Walter Scott for his dogs, but
little has been written on his fondness for
horses, and his tender feelings towards
other members of God’s dumb creation. His
kindness to every living creature was a
striking part of the benignity of his char-
acter. He seemed to consult not only their
bodily welfare but to understand their
language and feelings.

His kindness for animals was revealed in
his earliest days. Being lame and weak in
his boyhood, he spent many months at
Sandyknowe, near Kelso, with his uncle.
This kind-hearted man, to save the legs of
little Walter, gave him a dwarf pony of
the Shetland race which was not so large
as many a Newfoundland dog. Such was
the friendship between the pony and Walter
that it walked freely into the house to be
fed from the lad’s hand. In the evening of
his life, his grand-daughter was afflicted
with an inﬁrmity akin to his own, and he
presented her with a little mare of the same
breed, which he named “Marion,” in mem-
ory of his early favorite.

He was a great lover of horses and be-
came an excellent horseman. His favorite
animal was a black horse which he called
“captain.” Once, when crossing the Tweed,
Scott. found to his dismay that the river
was In ﬂood, and the horse was out of its
dePth. The noble animal, however, struck

out and swimming strongly soon landed its
master safely on the other bank. Another
favorite horse was named “Lieutenant,” and
1t was when riding this horse that he com-
posed many of the verses of his early poems.
In his declining years, he said to his son-
1n-1aw, “Oh, man, I had many a grand gal-
lop among the braes when I was thinking
of Marmion, but a trotting canting pony
must serve me now.”

Once, when riding in a carriage in his old
age, he saw a carter ill-treating his horse.
In great indignation he called on him to
desist. The man looked and spoke insolently,
and as the carriage drove on Scott told his
relative and biographer, L. G. Lockhart,
what he would have done to the man, had
the incident occured within the bounds of
his sheriffship. Mr. Lockhart jokingly re-
plied that he was surprised that his por-
ridge diet had left his blood so warm, and
quoted Prior’s lines:—

“Was ever Tartar ﬁerce or cruel
Upon a mess of water gruel?”
He smiled graciously and extemporized this
variation of the next couplet:—

“Yet who shall stand the Sheriﬂ’s force
If Selkirk carter beats his horse?”

Although as an act of courtesy Scott
attended the chase, he found no pleasure in
killing animals or birds for sport. He said
one day to Sir Basil Hall, who had not
joined the hunt with the rest of the Visitors,

“Muz- '-*"«-J=—*‘w 'mzczm‘ 7—W.;Hw ;‘1a.a.a::h_—:.g.rga__. "’ '11-”, :4; _‘_;, ;‘ gr

 

Page 183

“Are you a sportsman?” “No!” replied Sir
Basil, as he found “nothing amusing in
shooting animals.” .

“Well, neither do I,” said Scott. “Time
was when I did shoot a great deal but some-
how I never liked it much. I was never
quite at ease when I had knocked down my
blackcock and going to pick him up, he cast
his dying eye on me with a look of re-
proach. I don’t affect to be more squeamish
than my neighbors, but I am not ashamed
to say that no practice ever reconciled me
fully to the cruelty of this affair. I take
more pleasure in seeing the birds pass me
unharmed.”

An amusing incident happened when
Scott was leaving the house with a large
party of visitors. A little black pig became
a self-elected addition to his “tail of dogs.”
His daughter screamed with laughter and
said, “Papa, papa, I knew you could never
think of going without your pet.” A blush
and a smile appeared on his face when he
perceived the pig frisking about his pony.
He tried to look stern but in a moment was
obliged to join the general cheers. Poor
piggy soon found a strap around his neCk
and was led away whilst Scott repeated the
ﬁrst verse of an old pastoral song:—

“What will I do gin my hoggie die?
My joy, my pride, my hoggie!
My only beast I had na mae

And now! but I was yogie!”

Both this pig and a hen had taken a most
sentimental attachment to Scotland’s great
genius. There were two donkeys also, who
always left their pasture to lay their noses
over the paling, to have, said Washington
Irving, “a pleasant crack with the laird.”

Sir Walter was greatly distressed because
one of his dogs, Nimrod, pounced upon and
killed, a sleeping cat, the favorite pet of a
cottager’s child. He tried to wipe away the
child’s tears with a gift from his purse and,
later, instructed his daughter to see that the
cat had a proper funeral.

Sir Walter Scott in his love and tender-
ness towards dumb creation stands out as
one of Scotland’s noblest gentlemen. At his
passing his domestic animals seemed con-
scious they had lost their best friend. There
can be no doubt that Scott’s beautiful hu-
manitarian spirit, revealed in an age when
there was much cruelty to dumb animals,
was caught by others, until a few years be-
fore his death, the Royal Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals came into
being, which for many years has carried on
such a noble work on behalf of God’s dumb
creation throughout Britain.

Will You Sign This Petition P

If so, please send us your name and ad-
dress as indicated below, and we will add
it to the list.

We, the undersigned, knowing the great
and unnecessary cruelty of the present
methods of slaughtering food animals, do
hereby pledge ourselves to cut our con-
sumption of meat and meat products ten
per cent or more, until humane slaughter
is installed in every abattoir, all carcasses
to be stamped “Humanely slaughtered.”

Name .................................

Street address ..........................
City ...................... State ........

 

 




 

E

 

 

  

/.
Published monthly by the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals,

Entered as second-class matter,
Acceptance for mailing at special rate

Boston Ofﬁce, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston,

VQﬂ.67

What better evidence is there that we are
moving out of darkness into light than the
celebration on April 29 of “Brotherhood
Day” by Protestants, Catholics, and Jews?

There were slaughtered for food in the
abattoirs of this country from June 30, 1932,
to June 30, 1933, that is, in those which
have Federal inspection, 7,735,588 cattle;
4,547,956 calves; 17,253,875 sheep; 6,932
goats; 45,628,053 swine; a total of 75,172,-
404. These ﬁgures do not include the many,
many millions slaughtered in city, town and
state slaughter-houses where there is no
Federal inspection, or the hundreds of thou-
sands on farms.

It’s good news to learn that the Federa-

tion of Women’s Clubs in Chicago has the
humane education of children on its list of
activities. It should also be noted that
through the afﬁliation of our American Hu-
mane Education Society with the Parent
Teacher Association our Society has reached
thousands of parents, teachers and children
in the United States.

Again our plea made to the Massachu-
setts Legislature for a law which would
stop the keeping of wild animals in captivity
along our highways to attract trade has
been rejected by the Committee on Mercan-
tile Aﬂ‘airs. We understand some of the
committee voted for our measure. If we can
obtain the names of those who voted against
us, we should be glad to give them to the
thousands of voters in the state, members
of our Society. The committee consists of
the following:

Senators Hollis of Middlesex, Chase of
Hampden, Woolfenden of Bristol and Con-
roy of Bristol; Representatives Sisson of
Pittsﬁeld, Achin of Lowell, Youngman of
Medford, Clarkson of Worcester, Arnold of
Natick, Cohen of Boston, Donnelly of Law-
rence, Kilroy of Boston, Cleary of Cam-
bridge, Eisenstadt of Boston, and Craven of
Boston.

In making your will, please remember
the American Humane Education Society
of Boston, the ﬁrst of its kind in the world.

u u.s,Trade Mark.Registered \ I] 1
1. ANGELL m 1868.AND FOR FORWONE
O- YE! EDIT

ED 8}, Hm,

The Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

The American Humane Education Society

The American Band of Mercy

I would not enter on my list of friends,
Though graced with polished manners and ﬁne sense,
Yet wanting sensibility, the man
Who needlessly sets foot upon a worm.
—COWPER

June 29, 1917, at the Post Ofﬁce at Norwood, Mass.,

  

(3|.th TO
GOD,
PEACE on EARTH,
Kmouass, JUSTICE
AND MERCY To"
EVERY LIVING
CREATURE.

 
   
 

    
    
 
    
 

46 Central Street, N orwood, Massachusetts

under the Act of March 3, 1879

of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 3, 1917, authorized, July 13, 1919

hday,l934
The Dog His Own Enemy

ET through no fault of his own. The

blame falls upon his owner. He who
allows his dog to become a nuisance to his
neighbors, that is, permits him to tramp
over another’s garden or ﬂower bed or
frighten children or chase chickens or start
a ﬁght with another dog, is inevitably cre-
ating a prejudice against dogs in general.
There are already enough people who do not
like dogs, and even those who do, do not like
to have one belonging to someone» else be—
come a nuisance to them. The owner of a
dog should care enough for him to keep him
under proper restraint.

Dogs differ as people do. There are those-
who almost never leave the home premises,
never annoy strangers, never keep neigh-
bors awake by barking. Then there is the
roamer, the dog nearly always ready for a
ﬁght, the dog that makes nights hideous by
baying at the moon or some-thing not so far
away.

Think of the two Boston terriers which
last month attacked a little four-year-old
child and killed her! Thousands of people
will remember that against every dog they
see and never have a good word to say of
any of the species. Don’t let your dog be-
come a nuisance or, by your own fault, an
enemy to his kind.

And one word more. Don’t buy dogs at
wayside places or dog shops unless you
know the seller to be a thoroughly trust-
worthy and responsible person. We are con-
stantly having dogs purchased at such
places brought to us diseased, often sold
when coming down with distemper, afﬂicted
with rickets or other troubles. Never buy
one of an unknown person until you can
have it pronounced in healthy condition by
a competent veterinarian.

‘ Held for deportation—this is the sentence
given Andrew Muga in Chicago for cruelly
killing a dog. So the International Humane
League of Chicago informs us.

Join the Jack London Club and help stop
the cruelty of trained animal acts.

Mass.

PJo.5

A Law to Permit Cruelty

HAT is just what Congress voted when

it passed an amendment to the law
which limited the time to 28 hours during
which animals in transportation could be
kept conﬁned without food, water or rest,
and extended the time to 36 hours at the
written request of the shipper. Had the hu-
mane societies had any fair chance to Oppose
this amendment, it might never have become
law. Who pushed it through Congress? The
shippers, the men dealing in the lives of
helpless animals and concerned with dollars
and cents and not with anything it might
mean to millions of animals through the
years. If only the men responsible for the
amendment could be locked up in a freight
car 36 hours and kept there without food or
water or rest, it is barely possible they
might conclude that even 28 hours was alto-
gether more than enough.

A careful reading of the laws of the Nazi
Government in Germany against cruelty
discovers many places where, for reasons,
cruelty may be inﬂicted upon animals. The
laws are, as we feared when ﬁrst reported,
too good to be true.

Will You Sign This Petition?

If so, please send us your name and ad-
dress as indicated below, and we Will add
it to the list.

The Petition

We, the undersigned, knowing the great
and unnecessary cruelty of the present
methods of slaughtering food animals, do
hereby pledge ourselves to cut our con-
sumption of meat and meat products ten
per cent or more, until humane slaughter
is installed in every abattoir, all carcases
to be stamped “Humanely slaughtered.” .

Name ..................................

Street address ...........................

City ...................... State ........

 

 

 




.____. a—— ._-

 

 

 

 

M ay, 1931;

OUR DUlllB ANIMALS

Page 69

Bringing up the Babies—a Study in Bird Life

FREDERICK R. FLICKINGER and LAWRENCE D. HIETT

 

LMOST as miraculous as the trans—
formation of the ugly caterpillar into

‘ the gaudy winged butterﬂy, is the
change that is taking place in every road-
side hedge, every open ﬁeld and meadow,
every woodland border and marsh. For
here the birds are busy rearing their young
from the naked, blind, helpless little crea-
ture that ﬁrst rolls out of the» broken shell,
into feathered, bright-eyed, ﬂying beings
soon to start southward on their ﬁrst
migration.

Let us go out and study some of these
nestfuls of animation and watch their de-
velopment and growth. For ten to fourteen
days the robins that nested on your window-
ledge or in the maple along the street have
been sitting patiently on from three to ﬁve
blue-green eggs. They have been taking
turns, you may have noticed, with the
mother probably doing far more than the
male. But one day this long patient wait-
ing becomes transmuted into a period of
feverish activity, for the young robins are
hatching. One by one the blue shell shows
ﬁrst a tiny crack and then breaks asunder
under the struggling of the tiny bit of life
within. One by one the naked little nest-
lings wriggle free from the shell and lie
quivering in the bottom of the nest. For an
hour or so they lie quietly while the mother
broods them to keep them warm. Then that
appetite develops, that appetite that is to
cause father and mother robin such cease-
less toil. One by one the heads lift up on
long wobbly necks and the yellow—lined
mouths open for food. Then mother robin
leaves for a while while father stays guard.
She runs along the lawn, peers under the
bushes and ﬁnally returns with a mouthful
of insects, which she has worked about in
her bill till they are soft and easy to swal-
low. This mouthful may serve for two or
three of the young ones, and now both par-
ents are kept busy.

For ten to twenty days both father and
mother are on the go from daylight till
dark for a baby bird will sometimes eat his
own weight of food every day. His rate of
growth is amazing. Feathers sprout over-
night and perhaps after only ten days in
the nest the ﬂedgling now is able to ﬂutter

BABY WOODCOCK SOON ABLE TO RUN

Photographs by the Authors

 

  

FATHER ROBIN AND HIS SON

his wings and to ﬂy in short spurts. Look
at our baby robins now. They certainly look
more like birds than the scrawny little mites
that chipped their shells such .a short time
ago. True, they show many of the ﬂuffy pin
feathers that ﬁrst developed and were
shoved out- by the later plumage. Their
breasts are spotted which might lead us to
guess the truth, that the robin is a mem-
ber of the thrush family, most of which have
spotted breasts even as adults. But the
work of the parents is far from done, for,
even after the young leave the nest and are
strong on the wing they must be fed until
they learn to shift for themselves, which
may be at the end of two weeks or even
longer. Then mother robin feels the nest
building urge again, and, before long, a
second brood is on its way, while the ﬁrst
young ones follow about, still clamoring for
the food that they are now able to secure
for themselves.

Much the same series of events is taking
place in the nests of all the song birds. They
may take a shorter or a longer period to
hatch. the eggs, or keep the young in the
nests for different periods of time, but, in
a surprisingly few days most of them will
be through with household activities for the
year. A few stragglers will still have to
nest. The goldﬁnch and cedar waxwings
are always late, waiting till the end of July
or early in August to start housekeeping.
Some birds raise three or four broods a
year, such as song, ﬁeld and chipping spar-
rows, robins, bluebirds, wrens, and may be
still feeding young birds when the ﬁrst fall
frosts warn them to be on their way south.

Quite a different nesting history is found
when we study another group of birds which
are called precocial in contrast to the song
birds which are all altricial. The young of
precocial birds when hatched are covered
with down, their eyes are open, and a few
hours after chipping the shell they are able
to run about after their parents and to pick
up food for themselves. These birds include
the killdeer and other plover, the bobwhite,
sandpipers, woodcock, ducks, geese, to name
a few. The period that such birds must sit
on the eggspis longer than for song birds,
running three or four weeks. I don’t be-

 

 

BABY COMMON TERN

lieve there is anything in the world cuter

than these bird babies. They are so soft
and cuddly, so bright eyed and alert. And
what good children they are in the way
they mind mother. Should you startle a bob-
white with a ﬂock of young ones, she will
issue a warning “cluck” before ﬂying away.
Instantly each baby “freezes” to the ground.
Not a movement betrays his presence, while
his colors and markings blend so well with
his surroundings that he is well nigh in-
visible even at very close range. The ﬂock
of baby quail will vanish as if by magic.
If you move quietly away, however, and
hide yourself, you may have the thrill of
seeing the mother come back, give a re-
assuring call, and then watch the babies
appear as they move again and start troop-
ing through the ﬁelds following the mother.

A True Story of Twin Skunks

LAURA RAYMOND STRICKLAND

‘ Y next door neighbor and I have a

habit of working around our ﬂowers

on summer evenings. Although she lives at

the foot of the hill, and I half-way up, we
often converse when trafﬁc lulls.

Just at duskqin early June of last year
she called to me, rather excitedly, saying,
“Oh, Laura, what do you know! Two little
skunks are going toward the orchard, and
they are running and tumbling over each
other just like kittens.”

Knowing they would be hidden by tall
grass before I could join her, I expressed
regret at not being able to share her good
fortune, and the incident was forgotten un-
til the next afternoon, when glancing out
of the back window I saw two baby skunks
coming up the partially wooded slope. They
were more alike than two peas in a .pod;
marching side by side, fur touching, neither
an inch ahead of the other. It was a ﬁne
display of courage, but there was pathos in
it. They reminded me of two very small
boys whistling in the dark.

Never before had I seen skunks in broad
daylight, and remembering I had read that
mother skunks give their young a very in-
tensive training in self-protection, lasting

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 86

zens under the direction of the local So-
ciety. In Taunton Mrs. Howard F. Wood-
ward, president of the local Branch S. P.
C. A., supervised the distribution of 150
special posters in the schools. In Spring-
ﬁeld, the Women’s Auxiliary of the M.
S. P. C. A. devoted their April meeting
to Be Kind to Animals Week, with an
address by Secretary Guy Richardson.
Humane Day in Schools was observed
by special exercises in the School Street
school, Fitchburg, under the direction of
Mrs. Grace D. Proctor who reports that
the teachers and pupils of that school are
100 per cent pledged to kindness to animals.

As usual, the Christian Science Monitor,
notable among daily papers, carried special
articles during the Week. On Wednesday
it published a half page of animal pictures
taken by members of the Monitor Camera
Club.

Delaware

The Delaware S. P. C. A. of Wilmington
held a public annual meeting in connection
with Be Kind to Animals Week. There
were talks about school posters and humane
work by art and nature supervisors, presen-
tation of banners to Scouts and other organ-
izations, and an address by Edward N.
Skipper of the Pennsylvania S. P. C. A.

District of Columbia

A radio address and several school talks
were given in Washington by Miss Virginia
W. Sargent, president of the Animal Relief
and Humane Education League, under
whose auspices a humane essay contest was
conducted for the ﬁfth and sixth grades in
the public schools. National kindness post-
ers and a pamphlet of school exercises were
freely distributed by the League.

Florida
In Jacksonville, through the interest of
Miss Eartha M. M. White, there was “some-
thing doing” every day of the Week, includ-
ing school and college talks, an annual pet
parade, and, on Saturday, programs in
LaVilla and Oakland Parks.

Georgia

In few other states were the Observances
of National Be Kind to Animals Week so
generally widespread as in Georgia. The
outstanding event, perhaps, was a Humane
Education Breakfast at the Piedmont Hotel
at Atlanta where fully ﬁve hundred guests
assembled and heard a galaxy of speakers
of state and national distinction. Mrs.
Hugh Bradford, president of the National
Congress of Parents and Teachers, dis-
cussed “Humane Education in Relation to
World Peace,” and Miss Jessie Gray, presi-
dent of the National Education Associa-
tion, addressed the audience on the “Value
of Humane Education in the Schools.”

Mrs. Katherine Weathersbee, representa-
tive of the American Humane Education
Society and state chairman of Georgia, pre-
sided at this meeting. Through her untiring
efforts, with the cordial co-operation of state
chairmen, school superintendents, prominent
educators and the press, eighty-six radio
and one hundred and ninety-seven school
programs were presented during the week.
This is a record to be proud of.

Hawaii

The Hawaiian Humane Society issued
special illustrated circulars, calling atten-
tion to Humane Week both in the English
and the Japanese languages.

Iowa

In Sioux City Girl Scouts of Troop 20,

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

under the direction of Mrs. William Ayers,
all members of the local Animal Shelter,
staged a demonstration of caring for ani-
mals and applying “ﬁrst aid” to injured
dogs.
New Hampshire

A public meeting was held by the New
Hampshire Anti-Vivisection League at Man-
chester, in honor of the Week, and humane
posters and literature were freely distrib—
uted throughout the city. School talks were
given in Manchester and towns in northern
New Hampshire by Miss Lucia F. Gilbert
of the American Humane Education So-
ciety. The N. H. Humane Society dis—
tributed 200 posters to libraries and schools
throughout the state.

New York

A feature of the celebration in Syracuse,
N. Y., was the public presentation of two
medals to an English setter named “Byng,”
by J. Henry Cassidy, managing director of
the Syracuse S. P. C. A. The medals were
awarded by the Massachusetts S. P. C. A.
and the American Humane Association. In
the presence of a large group of school
children “Byng” received the decorations.
A short time before he saved his master’s

. life by rousing him from sleep by his bark-

ing and tearing the bed clothing from him
when ﬁre swept through the house.

“This really was a case of kindness to ani-
mals,” said Mr. Cassidy, “when one learns
that the dog’s master insisted that his dog
be rescued by the ﬁremen ﬁrst and he after,
as he realized that he owed his life to the
dog.”

Pennsylvania

The Women’s Pennsylvania S. P. C. A.
held a record—breaking observance in Phila-
delphia, where 500 posters were placed,
broadcasts were given over four radio sta-
tions, window displays were provided for
the large department stores and in one of
them a mass meeting, attended by 2,000
persons, was held; a motor parade was
staged on Friday, and the annual children’s
party, with a very large attendance, was
held on Saturday.

In Pittsburgh the Western Pennsylvania
Humane Society carried on an intensive
campaign, awarding medals to hero dogs,
presenting numerous radio talks, holding a
special pet show, and exhibiting humane
posters received as the result of a school
contest in which 2,400 pupils participated.

June, 1934

South Carolina

Governor Blackwood issued a proclama-
tion calling on South Carolina to observe
Humane Week.

Through the efforts of Seymour Carroll,
ﬁeld representative of the American Hu-
mane Education Society, an immense
amount of newspaper publicity was secured,
especially in the Negro press of the entire
Southland. In Columbia, a special musical
program, with 100 students singing Negro
spirituals and a humane education address
by Professor Andrew J. Simmons, was held
on Humane Sunday in the college audi-
torium. Several radio talks were given by
prominent citizens of Columbia.

Texas

In commemoration of the Week a beauti-
ful bronze statue of a dog was presented to
the children’s room of the public library
of Denver, Colorado, by Theo. D. Meyer,
president of the Humane Defense League,
Houston, and dedicated to Edwin Kirby
Whitehead, outstanding proponent of child
and animal protection of Denver. Mr.
Meyer arranged the celebration of the Week
in Houston, with programs in schools and
libraries.

The work among the Negroes was super-
vised by F. Rivers Barnwell of Fort Worth,
ﬁeld representative of the American Hu-
mane Education Society, who conducted two
special services on Sunday, one at Mt. Gil-
ead Baptist church and one at Como
Heights, gave talks during the week at
various schools where more than 11,000 chil-
dren were reached, made a radio address,
staged a pageant in Greenway Park with
Dr. Henry G. Bowden (white) as guest
speaker, and arranged for school contests
in posters, scrap—books and bird-houses.

The Weekly Herald of Yoakum, on April
12, carried a notice of Humane Sunday
above its title and made conspicuous edi—
torial comment on its ﬁrst page.

Virginia

Miss Blanche Finley, representing the
American Humane Education Society in
Richmond, distributed literature to 93
schools, sponsored a prize poster contest for
the pupils, displayed humane posters in
27 store windows and exhibited children’s
posters in several other public places. Rev.
J. W. Lemon, in charge of work among the
Negroes, reports the best Humane Week
yet, with many talks in the schools.

 

PRIZE WINNERS, OWNED BY MARION F. HOBBS

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page88
Our Dumb Animals

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston Ofﬁce; 180 Longwood Av-
enue, Boston, Mass., to which all communications
should be addressed.

Dr. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON, Editor
WILLIAM M. MORRILL, Assistant

 

JUNE, 1934

 

FOR TERMS, see back cover.

AGENTS to take orders for Our Dumb Animals are
wanted everywhere. Liberal commissions are offered.

EDITORS of all periodicals who receive this pub-
lication this month are invited to reprint any of the
articles with or without credit.

MANUSCRIPTS relating to animals, particularly
prose articles of about three hundred words are solic-
ited. We do not wish to consider prose manuscripts
longer than 800 words, nor verse in excess of thirty-
six lines. The shorter the better. All manuscripts
should be typewritten and an addressed envelope with
full return postage enclosed with each offering.

The Zoo

OME criticism having been passed upon

the narrowness of the quarters provided
for some of the animals in the great London
Zoo by the author elsewhere referred to in
this issue, E. V. Lucas, the secretary of the
Zoological Gardens, Sir Peter Chalmers
Mitchell, says: “Criticism is very good for
us, and is often specially welcome to me, as
I am, and always have been, in great doubt
about the basal principle of keeping animals
in captivity. I need hardly tell you that
neither my colleagues on the Council, nor
my assistants here, share these sentimental
heresies!”

He also says, “By all means hit us hard
when you think it useful. But if the com-
plaint be one capable of remedy, within the
limits that we do keep wild animals in cap-
tivity, it would be very nice of you to give
me the chance of ﬁnding the remedy before
you chastise us in public.”

This, at least, is evidence that so distin-
guished a zoologist as Sir Peter Chalmers
Mitchell has his doubts about the wisdom
of keeping animals in captivity.

 

 

A Kindness Club. That’s what they have
in a great public school in Chelsea. Mr. Leo
P. Casey, principal, teachers and nearly a
thousand pupils are members. The ofﬁcers
are pupils. The president of our Society
was at the school recently when the So-
ciety’s two ﬁlms were shown and spoke
brieﬂy. If only every school had a Kindness

Club with principal, teachers and pupils
all members!

After protecting the Roosevelt elk of the
Olympic peninsula for years an open sea-
son was declared in March and in went the
hunters, slaughtering without mercy. So
tame were these elk that it was like shoot-
ing down a ﬂock of helpless sheep. This
1s one of the tragedies of so-called wild life
protection. Will the State of Washington
continue to permit this cruelty in the
future? It would seem to be up to the state
game commission.

Kindness to animals is not mere senti-
ment, but a requisite of even a very ordin-
ary education. Nothing in arithmetic, or
grammar or any branch of study is so im-
portant for a child to learn as humaneness.

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

The Audubon Societies and
Their Rainey Wild Life

Sanctuary

T seems a pity that The National Asso-

ciation of Audubon Societies, whose
avowed object is “To Stimulate the Public
Conscience on the Subject of Preserving the
Wild Birds and Valuable Mammals of the
Country,” should think it necessary to re-
sort to the cruelties of the steel trap
throughout the vast area, 42 square miles,
of this well-known Louisiana Sanctuary.
Yet on this Sanctuary during the past ﬁve
years 289,940 muskrat, mink, raccoon and
opossum have been killed by these traps.
The proﬁts from the Sanctuary, under the
term “Rentals” is stated at $100,000. What
other proﬁts come from the Sanctuary, be-
side that from the sale of pelts, we do not
ﬁnd in the annual report.

The deed of gift transferring to the Audu-
bon Societies the Sanctuary, deﬁnes a
Sanctuary for Wild Life as “a place of
refuge wherein the killing, trapping or
destruction by any means of wild birds and
wild mammals shall not be permitted.” The
deed of gift does, however, provide that
“if any form of such life, birds or other-
wise, shall at any time be found by the said
donor to be obnoxious and injurious and
detrimental to other forms of animal life,
bird or otherwise, the said donor shall in
its discretion have the right to eliminate
or destroy the form of animal life so found
injurious or detrimental and to this end
shall have the right to grant hunting or
trapping privileges, or otherwise provide
for the destruction of the aforesaid animal
life.”

Is this trapping necessary? There is,
without question, a wide difference of
opinion. A gentleman who, with Mr. Rainey
originally owned the entire property, and
who sold his share to Mr. Rainey’s sister,
the donor, and who still owns a wide stretch
of territory adjoining the Rainey Sanctuary,
and which territory, he says, “harbors many
times more ducks than the Audubon prop-
erty,” writes, “muskrats do not, in any way,
destroy duck food. They destroy some goose
food, but not enough to be a menace to the
goose food supply. Muskrats do not eat
goose ﬂesh of any kind.” He further says,
“If the proper amount of water is put upon
this property to make it most valuable for
wild fowl and birds” the ﬂooding will drown
out the roots of the three-cornered grass on
the roots of which the muskrats feed, “but
in its place will grow a large variety of
underwater plants that are of far greater
value to wild fowl, generally speaking, than
three-cornered grass which is eaten only by
certain geese and muskrats.” It is his asser—
tion, also, that “Nature provides for taking
care of the too great increase of muskrats
by afﬂicting them with a plague which al-
most wipes out the race when it reaches
what we call the peak stage. Then they
start again from a comparatively small
number and build up through a period of
from seven to nine years.” He concludes
his letter with the following: “I am in
favor of trapping muskrats by any means
when the rats are numerous enough to make
the trapping advisable, but this property
which was donated for a wild life refuge
should not be operated as a muskrat ranch
to the detriment of the birds.”

June, 1931;

It is certainly devoutly to be wished that,
either by stopping the trapping for a few
years, or ﬂooding the upper and lower levels,
as suggested, it may be found that this kill-
ing in ﬁve years by the cruel trap of 289,940
furbearing animals (57,988 a year) can be
abandoned. It would be a cause of rejoic-
ing to all lovers of Nature’s wild life.

Bangor, Maine

The Bangor Humane Society must cer-
tainly be classed among those organiza-
tions that did a remarkably ﬁne piece of
work during Be Kind to Animals Week.
The broadcasts were excellent and the pos-
ter contest and the essays by the children
deserve space in Our Dumb Animals that
we wish we had to give them. We extend,
however, our sincere congratulations to
Miss Gladys F. Taggett, humane education
secretary.

The Parson and the Pigeons

We are sure there are many parsons who
are interested in animals. However, so few
of them apparently, from all we can hear,
had anything to say on Humane Sunday
that we are conﬁdent that there must be at
least some of them very unlike that cele-
brated parson who is known as St. Francis
of Assisi. This leads us to quote the fol-
lowing, written to that distinguished author,
Mr. E. V. Lucas, in a letter from A. W.
Pinero:

“St. Francis fed pigeons whenever he see
’em,

But I saw a parson today

What sat on the steps of the British
Museum
And frightened the pigeons away.”

From Governor Homer

In response to an appeal from Mrs. Jennie
R. Toomim, ﬁeld worker of the American
Humane Education Society, Governor Henry
Horner of Illinois wrote the following:

It is with renewed pleasure that this year
again, I offer my hearty endorsement of
your appeal for public observance of Be
Kind to Animals Week.

Your organization and associated groups
cannot be too highly commended for their
efforts to enlist the sympathy and interest
of all citizens, and particularly our chil-
dren, in according justice and kindness and
tenderness to dumb and domesticated ani-
mals. The influence of such sentiments un-
questionably contributes to the strengthen-
ing of those humane instincts which the
people of our nation have always proudly
possessed.

With the best of good wishes to your
worthy purposes, believe me,

Sincerely yours,
HENRY HORNER
' Governor

N. Y. League Presents Medal

“Chingy,” a yellow dog whose barking en-
abled many tenants to escape from the
burning tenement at 40 East 7th Street,
New York City, received a medal from the
New York Women’s League for Animals,
last March, the presentation being by Mrs.
J. D. Prince, president of the League, at
the Ellin Prince Speyer Hospital for
Animals.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 68
The Outcast

ANN FOX

On Easter morn, they say, Saint Peter
smiles

Alike on saint and sinner suppliant, _

Opening to them his broad and blessed aisles

That all may fete a day so jubilant. .

But there is one who may not enter in

Till he atone for his red, ruthless ways.

An outcast he, whose cruel, ﬁendish sin

Bars heaven’s mercy on this day of days.

He is that man of whom Saint Francis cries,
The sweet Assisian who loved man and
beast: .
“This is the murderer on whose consczence

lies
My little brothers’ blood. On this white feast
His darkling presence here would desecrate.

H,

He trapped for sport; ﬁrst let him expiate;

Our Wayside Animal Pris-
OIlCI'S
Editor, Our Dumb Animals :—

NE more move toward the comfort of
our “Wayside Animal Prisoners!”

Since the reading of “D. W. F.’s” letter
in Our Dumb Animals concerning more hu-
mane treatment of animals kept as wayside
prisoners, I am happy to say that we have
had a step taken in this direction in our
town in the past few weeks.

For the past six years one of our most
prominent ﬁlling stations has had a zoo of
caged lions and monkeys, as an attraction
to their station.

Their cages were back of the station,
surrounded by pavement, of course. On one
side of the cage were railroad yards which,
as we know, are very hot in the summer
time. With the burning reﬂection from the
pavement, and with no other protection
from the sun’s hot rays all during those
hot summer days, these poor animals lay
in the heat, panting and weary from this
torture. Apparently they were well fed
and well taken care of in other ways, but
they only too plainly showed their discom-
fort and distress from these quarters. I
could feel only a heartfelt pity for them in
their anguish.

But at last! They are building for them,

cages, large and roomy, in one of our most

beautiful city parks. Out where they are
among green shady trees, with a green lawn
stretching far in the distance. Out where
they can breathe that cool fresh mountain
breeze from those most inviting Rockies,
not far distant.

What a wonderful thought to know they
are at last given some of Nature’s gifts to
enjoy—rightfully theirs—with their added
comfort!

The male lion is some ﬁfteen years old
now and the female lion nine years. They
have, at the present time, a family of two,
which are thriving nicely.

Perhaps in another week more we shall
see them happily in their new home—and
a really wonderful home, too.

They have a summer time coming to en-
joy, with cool inviting shade and mountain
breezes, and, when next winter’s chill
arrives, it will ﬁnd them comfortably housed
in those nicely built houses which we are
so proud for them to have.

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS.

The Bird to Exterminate

'"ARMAMENT

 

 

It’s a happy thought to know of the com-
fort they may enjoy the remaining years of
their life, not now wayside prisoners—but,
although not allowed freedom, given the
best of comforts.

ETHELYN A. DANIEL
Pueblo, Colo.

Animals Enraged at Film

An Associated Press dispatch from Holly--
wood a few weeks ago stated that unexpected.

drama was thrust into a ﬁlm thriller when
a vicious Himalayan bear became enraged
during the ﬁlming of a jungle scene and
attacked John Helliott, 50, animal trainer.

Before studio employes could beat off the
enraged animal, it had bitten away the en-
tire calf muscles of Helliott’s right leg.

A few hours earlier a lion leaped the en-
closure of the jungle arena and attacked
Alvin Wykoﬂ“, a cameraman. The heavy
beast crushed Wykoff under his camera and
inﬂicted bruises and lacerations.

To All Who Love Dogs

I wonder how many of you have had

the thrill that was mine on Monday, March
5, 1934, while I was walking along Pleas—
ant Street in Hyde Park, Massachusetts,
writes Elliott T. Ford, a lawyer of that
place, who accompanies his communication
with a sworn statement as to the truth of
the incident.
. There was still a considerable width of
ice.near the shores of the Neponset River
whlch winds its way along through this
d1strict and, at the point I speak of, is
about ﬁfty feet below the level of the street
on which I was walking.

On the strip of ice on the east side of the

river I saw two dogs trotting along, one, a

 

From The Detroit News

May, 1981;

collie a little ahead
of the other, an
Irish terrier. Appar-
ently unconscious of
where he was head-
ing for, the collie
trotted right over
the edge of the ice
into the cold water
and immediately he
turned and swam
back to the ice
edge and tried to
pull ,himself back
with his front paws.
Whether or not he
could have “made it”
I do not know, but
I do know that his
“pal,” the Irish ter-
rier, was not taking
any chances of los-
ing his collie play—
mate, so he hastened
to the spot, and,
reaching his head
past that of the col-
, lie, grasped the col-
lie with his teeth, in
the thick hair of the
collie’s neck and, set-
tling back on the
ice, pulled with all
his might and landed
Mr. Collie where he
belonged, whereupon
they nudged each
other’s heads and proceeded to go for a
good roll in the nearby deep snow.
Tell me that dogs aren’t human.

 

Jack London’s Suggestion

From “Michael Brother of Jerry”

Practically all of us will weep red tears
and sweat bloody sweats as we come to
knowledge of the unavoidable cruelty and
brutality on which the trained-animal world
rests and has its being. But not one-tenth
of one per cent of us will join any organiza-
tion for the prevention of cruelty to ani-
mals, and work to prevent the perpetration
of cruelties on animals.

And still for us, for the ninety-nine and
nine-tenths per cent of us, under the easy
circumstances of our Own weakness, remains-
another way most easily to express our-
selves for the purpose of eliminating from
the world the cruelty that is practised by
some few of us, for the entertainment of the
rest of us, on the trained animals, who,
after all, are only lesser animals than we
on the round world’s surface. It is so easy.
We will not have to think of dues or cor-
responding secretaries. We will not have to
think of anything, save when, in any the-
ater or place of entertainment, a trained—
animal turn is presented before us. Then,
without premeditation, we may express our
disapproval of such a turn by getting up-
from our seats and leaving the theater for-
a promenade and a breath of fresh air out-
side, coming back, when the turn is over, to-
enjoy the rest of the program. All we
have to do is just that to eliminate the-
trained-animal turn from all public places.
of entertainment. Show ,the management.
that such turns are unpopular, and in a day,
in an instant, the management will cease
catering such turns to its (audiences.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 160

Convention at Columbus

HE annual meeting of the American

Humane Association will open in Co-
lumbus, Ohio, Monday evening, October 8,
with a broadcast over WBNS on “Humane
Progress,” by Judge Baldwin of Youngs—
town. Sessions will be held the three fol-
lowing days at the Neil House, the ﬁrst
half of the program being devoted to chil-
dren’s work and the remaining day and a
half to work for animals. At the opening,
Tuesday morning, there will be addresses
of welcome by Mayor Worley of Columbus
and Mr. Theodore Stevenson, secretary of
the local society, followed by the report of
President Sydney H. Coleman. In the even-
ing there will be addresses on “Faith in
Government” by Hon. Byron B. Harlan of
Dayton, and on “Children’s Courts” by Hon.
Roland W. Baggott, also of Dayton.

Topics relating to animal protection
work will be considered, beginning Wed-
nesday afternoon, when Mrs. Charles S.
Joyce, Pikesville, Md., will tell of “Humane
Education in Maryland;” Professor Leo P.
Schleck, president of the Wisconsin, Feder-
ated Humane Societies, will discuss “Hu-
mane Education on a State-wide Plan;”
Guy Richardson, Boston, will present
“Twenty Years of Be Kind to Animals
Week;” Wilford E. Sanderson of the Ameri-
can Humane Association will relate “Prog—
ress in Trap Reform;” and E. L. Wickliﬂ"
of the State Conservation Dept., Columbus,
will deal with “Food Habits of Hawks and
Owls in Ohio.” In the evening the annual
banquet will be held in the hotel, with
addresses by Mayor Worley, Governor
White and Mrs. Amy W. Gill, president of
the local Humane Society. J. W. Stuber of
the State Conservation Dept., will show a
ﬁlm illustrating conservation in Ohio.

Thursday forenoon’s topics and speakers
are: “Problem of the Stray Dog,” Rev. A.
W. S. Garden, Pittsburgh; “How Michigan
Fed Its Live Stock,” Mrs. Charles M.
Kindel, Grand Rapids, Mich.; “Live Stock
Loss Prevention,” Robert F. Sellar, Boston;
“The Lethal Chamber,” Wm. F. H. Wentzel,
Pittsburgh. At the afternoon ’session,
Thursday, Mrs. Frank Sweeney will tell of
organizing a Humane Society in Memphis,
Tenn.; Eric H. Hansen of St. Louis will
describe “A Day with the Humane Society
of Missouri;” and Richard C. Craven of
the American Humane Association will
conduct the “A. B. C.” closing feature,
which will be in the nature of an open
forum for discussion of any topics that
may be presented by delegates. Tuesday
afternoon there will be a sight-seeing trip.

OUR DUAIB, ANIMALS
Misguided Youth

NIXON WATERMAN

There was a happy pair of quails

That every morning, every night,
ll’ould ﬂing across the dewy ﬁelds

Their welcome greeting of “Bob-white!”
It was a cheery, friendly call

That seemed to say to all who heard,
“The world is full of God’s good gifts,

Enough for man and beast and bird.”

There was a boy, a thoughtless boy
Whose parents bought for him a gun:
Alas! he owned a sorry sense
Of what is meant by “having fun.”
He robbed the fields of harmless things
That sought to ﬁll the world with joy:
The “Bob-white” call was heard no more
Because of that misguided boy.

Beware the Toy Gun!

NDER the title, “Tragedy Lurks in
Children’s Use of Guns, Warning
Here,” Mrs. M. W. Baldwin, secretary of
the Humane Society in Sioux City, Iowa,
writes as follows in the Tribune of that city.
Two little squirrels, bushy tailed and
bright of eye, entered the yard at the home
of G. F. Hughes, 1123 Douglas, early last
spring. They adopted the walnut tree, and
were cordially welcomed by the Hughes
family, who named them “Frisky” and
“Skippy.” Soon they were eating out of
hands, and their many cunning antics were
a source of pleasure to the owners of the
yard and tree. They trusted everybody,
and romped and played like baby kittens.
The two were pals. Where “Skippy” went,
“Frisky” scampered too, and when tired out
the two would sit close on a branch of the
walnut tree and rest.

But that’s all over now. Yesterday only
one little squirrel was in sight when the
Hughes family came home from the city.
It was “Frisky,” and he sat huddled up
near the foot of the tree close to a ﬂower
bed. He didn’t notice the family, and paid
no attention to their overtures. Search was
begun for “Skippy” and his little body was
found, shot to death, in the ﬂower bed close
by where his sorrowful little mate sat
watching.

If “Frisky” could talk he might be able
to tell just who the boy was who ﬁred the
shots that robbed him of his playmate and
took so much joy out of the world. Perhaps
he would want to know why such things
are permitted, a question that is often asked

 

 

TO OUR FRIENDS

In making your will, kindly bear in mind that the cor orate title of our Soci ’ “
Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty topAnimals”: that it is :ltﬁelzecbilicl
incorporated (March, 1868) Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals in the country
and that it has no connection with any other similar Society. ,

Any bequest especially intended for the beneﬁt of the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital
should, nevertheless, be made to The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty

s _tthe Hospital is not incorporated but is the
y 1 .

FORM OF BEQUEST

I give to The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruel t A '
to The American Humane Education Society), the sum of ty 0 mmals (or

dollars (or, if other property, describe the property).

to Animals “for the use of the Hospital,” a
property of that Society and is conducted b

 

 

 

Oct. 1934

by sensible human beings. Why are boys
given deadly weapons and allowed to carry
them up and down streets and alleys?

Not long ago a mother living on the
North side told me how her little girl had
lost one eye because some boy had a gun,
and used it. A 6-year-old boy came to the
shelter with his mother one day, pale and
listless, one eye a beautiful blue, the other
shattered, scarred by a shot from a gun in
the hands of older boys. In one institution
for the blind in California, it is reported
that there are more than 300 little children
who must go through life sightless because
their eyes were shot out by “play guns.”

Fresh in our minds is the tragic death of
little Robert Warren, killed by a shot from
a gun in the hands of another boy, here
in Sioux City. One does not place the blame
so much on the children, as on the parents
who provide the deadly weapons for them.
Fathers have told me their reason for giv-
ing guns to their sons was to “make real
men of them,” and they start them out at
the age of three with a toy gun, and give
them a real one as soon as they are able to
carry one around.

Of course, the boys may be told to shoot
at tin cans or other targets, but too often
the “other target” is an innocent bird or
animal, and in too many cases, some other
child, and the father is responsible for get-
ting his son into trouble, and for training
his son to have utter disregard for the lives
and rights of other living creatures.

Conﬁscated guns, and slingshots as well,
seen in the ofﬁces of the juvenile court and
the Humane Society, remind one there are
laws governing the use of death—dealing
weapons, and cases may be reported to the
ofﬁcials of these organizations.

We are receiving gifts to the American
Humane Education Society as a trust fund,
the interest to be used for the beneﬁt of
ﬁeld missionaries and others who have spent
their lives in promoting humane education.
We will welcome your gift. Please make
checks payable to Treasurer, American Hu-
mane Education Society, 180 Longwood Av-
enue, Boston, and specify that the amount
contributed is for the Humane Education
Trust Fund.

The Mass. S. P. C. A. also is raising a
fund for employees incapacitated for work.

 

Our Dumb Animals

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,

Massachusetts. Boston Ofﬁce; 180 Longwood Av-
enue.
Address all communications to Boston.
TERMS

One dollar per year.
the world.

Humane Societies and Agents are invited to cor-
respond with us for terms on large orders.

' All dollar subscriptions sent direct to the ofﬁce en-
title the sender to membership in either of our two
Someties.

Postage free to any part of

RATES OF MEMBERSHIP IN

THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOC E
OR THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C A.I TY

Active Life $100 00 Active Annual $10 001

Associate Life 50 00 Associate Annual 5 00

Sustaining 20 00 Annual 1 00
Children’s $0.75

Checks and other payments may be sent to ALBERT
g. POLLARD, Treasurer, 180 Longwood Avenue,.
oston.

Manuscripts should be addressed to the Editor,.
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page ’70

over a period of nearly a year, I concluded
they must be orphans, and it was their
mother that had been killed by a passing
automobile.

Undoubtedly, they had been here before,
for they went straight to the place where
I put vegetable pe-elings, etc. Their diminu-
tive size made it diﬂicult for them to climb
into the box, butafter much maneuvering
of hind feet, this was accomplished. Their
peculiar method of chewing reminded me
of a lamb I used to have.

They came the next day, and the next,
and so on, but not knowing much about
skunks and having heard a lot, I didn’t
approach them until they approached me!

In July our Cuthbert raspberries were
ripe, and one day as I was thinking how
large and lovely they were, a baby skunk
ran across my foot! Taken by surprise, it
was with difﬁculty that I kept from step-
ping on him. The ﬁrst experience was
rather startling, but after that they accom-
panied me almost every day, going round
and round the trees, hunting for grubs. Al-
though they were very friendly, and got in
my way like kittens, I never attempted to
stroke them, or pick them up, thinking

they might not take kindly to the smell of

human touch.

In August we went to Maine for a vaca-
tion which lasted until the ﬁrst of October.
After we returned, I never saw the skunks
by daylight, but they ran across my hus—
band’s feet one night as he was closing the
outside cellar doors. He came in a little
breathless (for they were no longer babies!)
but greatly pleased with his experience.

After that we often saw the animals
when we drove into the garage. They were
usually going over cans to obtain morsels
of food which remained. They showed no
fright over the bright lights and, contrary
to reputation, always got out of the way.
Sometimes going under the work-bench, and
sometimes under newspapers piled on ad—
joining boxes, where they peered out at us
with bright eyes, tails wagging and going
thump! thump! against their paper tent;
apparently well pleased to be so completely
hidden!

We always left the garage doors open so
the skunks could leave at will. One morn-
ing, to our astonishment, we discovered
about two quarts of peanut shells on the
ﬂoor. They had stumbled upon the source
of food kept for pet squirrels; but right
then and there, we decided that skunks have
a preference for peanuts, too. I laughingly
remarked to my husband that the poor dears
had received no instruction in the caloric
content of the peanut, and I shouldn’t be
surprised if they developed a “tummy”
ache, later. That was the last time we saw
them, and gradually we came to the conclu-
sion that, after all, there was method in
their madness, for no doubt the consumption
of this fattening food helped to prepare
them for their long winter’s sleep.

More friends are needed to endow stalls
and new kennels in the Angel] Memorial
Animal Hospital. Payments of thirty-ﬁve
dollars for a kennel or seventy-ﬁve dollars
for a stall will insure a suitable marker
inscribed with donor’s name. Terms of per-
manent endowment of free stalls and ken-
nels will be given upon application to the
Massachusetts S. P. C. A., 180 Longwood
Avenue, Boston.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

May, 1931;

The Poor Offending Skunk

RAYMOND E. MOORE

savory reputation of being literally in
worse odor than any other animal in
existence. This is due to the fact that
Nature has equipped him with certain
glands situated near the root of the tail in

THE poor skunk has obtained the un-

redeeming qualities. For example, there are
few animals that possess a more pleasing
appearance. His rich, glossy, parti-colored
coat and long bushy tail make him unusu-
ally attractive. One of the prettiest sights
I have seen in all Nature was a mother

 

HARMLESS AND ODORLESS IF UNMOLESTED

which is formed a powerful and very offen-
sive liquid secretion. He is able to eject this
rank ﬂuid at will, and readily does so when
alarmed or molested. It is his only means
of protecting himself. Clumsy and slow of
gait as he is, he would be utterly at the
mercy of his enemies, if it were not for this
unique mode of defense.

The skunk is to be found in both wooded
and open sections of country. Meadows and
open pastures seem to be his favorite place
of habitation. He generally makes his home
in old woodchuck burrows, although he has
been known to excavate dens of his own by
means of his strong claws. He is nocturnal
in his habits, and is only occasionally seen
during the day, although he frequently ven-
tures out in the evening while it is yet light.
He may be said to be gregarious, as often
several animals are found living in the
same den, especially in winter. He does not,
as many suppose, completely hibernate in
the winter, but remains in his burrow in
severely cold and stormy weather, ventur-
ing out during a mild period. He puts on
a large amount of fat during the autumn
months, which enables him to subsist when
food is scarce and hard to ﬁnd. .

The skunk has numerous peculiarities, one
of which is his extreme curiosity. He will
venture to inspect almost anything that
happens to attract his attention—even
human beings if they will remain perfectly
still and permit him to approach them. An-
other of his peculiarities is his seeming
nonchalance in the presence of danger. He
seems to feel secure in his unique means of
defense, and will often await the approach
of an enemy with perfect equanimity.

Because of the offensive odor he emits,
the skunk is almost universally regarded
as a vile and repugnant beast. No one but
the trapper takes any interest in him. This
is most unjust, for the animal has many

skunk in a meadow with a litter of young
ones tagging her. Moreover, he is remark-
ably quiet and gentle of demeanor, and
really quite playful. He is perfectly harm-
less and perfectly odorless,—if not molested.

Too many farmers are prone to look upon
the skunk as a greedy and rapacious night
prowler that is bent upon the destruction
of innocent creatures. It is true, he has
been known to make an occasional raid on
the poultry house, and no doubt a young
rabbit, squirrel or a ﬂedgling serve him for
a meal now and then. But, on the other
hand, he consumes a great number of nox-
ious insects, and this alone should compen-
sate for the small amount of damage that
may be laid to his door. He is also an
efﬁcient destroyer of small rodents which
prey upon and derive their living from the
farmer’s crops. Great numbers of grubs,
lizards and young snakes are likewise de-
voured by him. Upon the whole, the good
that he does far outweighs the evil, and as
an aid to agriculture he is entitled to much
respect, and fuller protection from the
greedy trapper who is continually seeking
him for his ﬁne coat.

Enchanted

BUENA SOWELL

This day I cannot sing a song
For songs are sung by birds;
I cannot make my verses ring
For verse is made with words
Conceived within the heart and mind;
My words are futile things.
I dare not stir from out my place
For robin redbreast sings;
My lips are still, my mind is numb,
I dare not leave this tree;
With humble heart I sweetly breathe
In silent ecstasy.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

Founded by Geo. T. Angell. Incorporated March, 1868

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. 'POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds

JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board
CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President, United Shoe
Machinery Corporation

PHILIP STOCKTON, President, First National Bank of
Boston

Prosecuting Ofﬁcers in Boston

Telephone (Complaints, Ambulances) Longwood 6100
L. WILLARD WALKER, Chief Ofﬁcer
HARRY L. ALLEN DAVID A. BOLTON
HARVEY R. FULLER HOWARD WILLAND
County Prosecuting Ofﬁcers

HERMAN N. DEAN, Boston

Middlesex, Norfolk and Plymouth
FRED T. VIC‘KERS, Lynn Eastern Essex
WILLIAM W. HASWELL, Methuen Western Essex
THEODORE W. PEARSON, Springﬁeld

Hampden, Hampshire and Franklin

ROBERT L. DYSON, Worcester Worcester
WINFIELD E. DUNHAM, New Bedford Bristol
HAROLD G. ANDREWS, Hyannis,

Barnstable, Dukes and Nantucket
T. KING HASWELL, Pittsﬁeld Berkshire

Rest Farm for Horses and Small Animal Shelter,
Methuen

W. W. HASWELL, Superintendent

Women’s Auxiliary of the Mass. S. P. C. A., 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston—MRS. EDITH WASHBURN
CLARKE, Pres; MRS. A. J. FURBUSH, Treas.; MRS.
AGNES P. FISHER, Ch. Work Com.

Springﬁeld Branch—MRS. DONALD C. KIBBE, Pres. ;
MRS. AARON BAGG, Treas.

Winchester Branch—MRS. RICHARD S. TAYLOR,
Pres.; MISS BESSIE SMALL, Treas.

MONTHLY REPORT OF SOCIETY
AND BRANCHES

Miles traveled by humane Ofﬁcers. . 14,711

Cases investigated .............. 480
Animals examined ............... 5,446
Animals placed in homes ......... 166
Lost animals restored to owners. . . 33
Number Of prosecutions .......... 8
Number Of convictions ........... 8
Horses taken from work .......... 22
Horses humanely put to sleep ..... 52

Small animals humanely put to sleep 1,459
Stock-yards and Abattoirs

Animals inspected ............... 38,247
Cattle, swine and sheep humanely
put to sleep ................... 53

The Massachusetts Society for the Pre-
vention of Cruelty to Animals has been re-
membered in the will Of Mrs. Lydia Cameron
Rogers Sedgwick of Stockbridge.

May 8, 1934.

Our readers are urged to clip from “Our
Dumb Animals” various articles and re-
quest their local editors to republish.
Copies so mutilated will be made good by
us upon application.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

ANGELL. MEMORIAL ANIMAL
HOSPITAL

and Dispensary for Animals

184 Longwood Avenue Telephone, Longwood 6100
Veterinarians

. DAILEY, v.M.D., Chief of Staff
. SCHNEIDER, v.M.D., Asst. Chief
. SCHROEDER, D.v.M.

. SCHNELLE, v.M.D.

. MUNSON, v.M.D.

. BLAKELY, v.M.D.

HARRY L. ALLEN, Superintendent

Springﬁeld Branch

53-57 Bliss Street, Springﬁeld, Mass.
THEODORE W. PEARSON, General Manager
’ Veterinarians

A. R. EVANS, v.M.D.
H. L. SMEAD, D.V.M.

QHPEFE
Rowena

 

 

 

HOSPITAL REPORT FOR APRIL
Including Springﬁeld Branch

Hospital Dispensary

Cases entered 750 Cases 2,243
Dogs . 564 Dogs 1,820
Cats 174 Cats 368
Horses 4 Birds 49
Birds 4 Horses 3
Rabbits 2 Rabbits 3
Goat 1
Monkey 1

Operations .990

Hospital cases since Opening, Mar.
1, I915 ....................... 119,480

Dispensary Cases ............... 275,487
Total ........................ 394,967

The Month in the Springﬁeld Branch

Cases entered in Hospital ........... 117
Cases entered in Dispensary ....... 299
Operations ........................ 140

MASSACHUSETTS s. P. C. A. IN THE
COURTS

Summary of Prosecutions in April

For cruelly beating a race-horse, a defend-
ant pleaded not guilty but was convicted
and ﬁned $25. He appealed and in Superior
Court pleaded nolo, was found guilty but
ﬁne was reduced to $10.

TWO defendants from New York State
engaged in the transport Of calves by motor
truck were arraigned for cruelty to the ani-
Igials. They pleaded nolo and each was ﬁned

25.

For cruelty to his dog which consisted in
tying it to the rear of his auto and drag—
ging it three—quarters of a mile, the owner
was ﬁned $25.

Over-driving a horse which wore blinders
so tight as to cause inﬂammation of one
eye, defendant was ﬁned $25 and given a
month’s time to. pay ﬁne.

For underfeeding forty-ﬁve head Of cattle,
which were emaciated and starving, owner
was given a sentence Of two months at
House Of Correction.

The seller at private sale Of a horse that
was unﬁt for labor by reason Of debility and
Old age pleaded guilty in court and was
ﬁned $10.

For cruelly shooting a dog and leaving it
alive to die Of wounds inﬂicted, defendant
convicted and ﬁned $25.

A similar case of cruelly maiming a dog,
by Shooting two bullets into its body and
leaving it to drag itself home, resulted in
a $25 ﬁne for the Offender.

Page 89

 

“Max Kazan Marsh”

HIS picture Of a beloved dog, “Max

Kazan,” came to us from Lou Morris
College, Jacksonville, Texas, sent by his
mistress, Mrs. Alice Marsh. With it came
$35 endowing a kennel in his memory for
a year. Max Kazan came to Mrs. Marsh
as an outlaw puppy, discarded by his owner.
Hungry and desolate he wandered one morn-
ing into the yard of Mrs. Marsh. At once
they found they were made for each other.
He proved not only to posseSs unusual in-
telligence, but gentleness and ﬁdelity per-
soniﬁed. To tiny things like chickens, rab-
bits and kittens he was an unfailing friend.

Successful Hospitality Day

Nearly 200 women responded to the invi-
tation to the annual Hospitality Day Of the
Women’s Auxiliary of the Massachusetts
S. P. C. A., held at the Angell Animal Hos-
pital building, April 11, from 1 to 5 P. M.
There was bridge, in charge Of Mrs. Avard
Nichols, and afternoon tea, in charge of
Mrs. Arthur W. Hurlburt. Mrs. Charles C.
Hoyt was chairman of the hostesses, While
Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke, president,
was general chairman of the affair. Music
was by Miss Katherine Beals Perkins, harp-
ist. Many Of the guests were greatly in-
terested in visiting the Hospital, where
they were shown over the clinics and vari-
ous wards in which animals suffering from
automobile accidents, distemper and other
ills are cared for. The Auxiliary held its
annual business meeting and banquet at
Hotel Kenmore, Boston, May 23.

In striving against cruelty, in pleading
the cause Of animals, you further the educa-
tion Of childhood and the uplifting of our
poor humanity. CARDINAL MERCIER

More friends are needed to endow stalls
and new kennels in the Angell Memorial
Animal Hospital. Payments of thirty-ﬁve
dollars for a kennel or seventy-ﬁve dollars
for a stall will insure a suitable marker
inscribed with donor’s name. Terms of per-
manent endowment of free stalls and ken-
nels will be given upon application to the
Massachusetts 5. P. C. A., 180 Longwood

Avenue, Boston.

 




 

 

Dec-1931;

Helping Our Friends, the
Birds

BESSIE L. PUTNAM

T is not too early to get the feeding-

stations ready when we take the bird—
houses in. If they can be protected from
storm, good. Place them secure from cats,
and preferably in sight of the living-room
window. A long perch across the window
a few inches from the top is highly satis-
factory. Small tacks may be driven into
the top of the window from which cords
with pieces of suet are suspended. By low-
ering the window from the top, one may
easily renew the food supply without going
out into the snow.

We are warned not to pick berries of
bitter-sweet and mountain ash but to save
them and all similar berries for the birds.
We have found them‘more needed in mid-

winter than early in the season. It may
prove a kindness to pick as freely as we
wish for autumn decoration. Then, when it
is time to discard them for the Christmas
greens, they may be freed from dust by a
good rinse in clear water, and the birds,
having denuded most of. the berry-bearing
bushes, will the more appreciate them.

Dogwood trees are highly ornamental and
greatly appreciated by the birds. Pepper-
idge and sassafras are other ornamental
trees of high food value for the birds.
High-bush cranberry, shadbush, black alder,
blueberry, spicebush and a host more of
berry-bearing bushes will not only add
beauty to the landscape but will help the
feathered beauties in time of greatest need.
Sumac, highly ornamental when it is in its
autumn colors, is a joy to them at all sea-
sons, topped with its red-haired clusters of
edible seeds. Roadside planting may mean
a lot to the birds, besides utilizing space
otherwise taken up with weeds.

Our readers are urged to clip from “Our
Dumb Animals” various articles and re-
quest their local editors to republish.
Copies so mutilated will be made good by
us upon application.

 

DO NOT LET THEM STARVE THIS WINTER

OUR DUMB ANIMALS"

Be Kind

SOLVEIG PAULSON

Be kind to all living things,
Each bug that crawls, each bird that sings.

Keep always present in your mind
Ideas that are brave and kind.
Never needlessly hurt one
Defenseless creature “just for fun.”

Teach others to appreciate;
Only cowards live in hate.

All that live share love and life,

Nor were they meant to live in strife.
In. every heart theforce for good
Makes all unite in brotherhood.
Allow each‘creature, great or small,
Life in its way, to fly, to crawl;
Sincerely be a friend to all.

 

A Pioneer in Korea

Few travelers could fail to notice that
animals in Seoul are treated better than in
most Asiatic towns, we are told. This is
due in large measure to the untiring efforts
of one woman, Mrs. Thomas Hobbs, who
with her husband went to work in Korea
under appointment of the British and For-
eign Bible Society. Mrs. Hobbs was the
ﬁrst to propose the organization of the
Seoul S. P. C. A. a little more than ten
years ago. Under her leadership that So-
ciety was built up to a membership of more
than three hundred and ﬁfty at the time
of her death last April. Her heart had been
burdened by the ill-treatment of animals
that she saw in her work among the people
she loved, and it was her constant desire
to mitigate cruelty and make life happier
and safer for all. She had succeeded in at-
tracting many inﬂuential persons, including
Koreans, Japanese, missionaries and com-
mercial representatives, to the cause of ani-
mal welfare. It is to be hoped that the So-
ciety will be able to carry on even with the
loss of so great a leader.

The noblest of all service is that of easing
the pain of the world. CANON SHATFORD

Page 187

Animal Travelers

ITHOUT doubt one of the most
mysterious phenomena in nature
is the migration of what we suppose to be
“lowly animals,” writes Lewis Wayne
Walker in Firelight. Such travels are not
alone conﬁned to feathered creatures, but
also occur to a certain extent among mam-
mals, insects, and even reptiles. The birds,
however, have sky lanes without detours,
and are capable of swift ﬂight; hence their
journeys are longer, and more spectacular
than the trips of the others.

All birds do not migrate in the same
way. Some hurry along to their destina-
tion as though their very lives depended
upon speed, while others are slow and
methodical, and feast wherever food is
found. Some types seek a sky lane high
in the air, others ﬂit from branch to branch,
tree to tree, until they reach their objec-
tive. ‘

’ When we try to Come to some conclusion

‘ on the why and wherefore of migration,

we run across many snags. We know sure-
ly that food is a deciding factor, and the
same can be said ’of temperatures, but
what sense 1t is that tells them where to
go —— and how to get there — is a mys-
tery. Cold temperatures. force a freezing
over the ponds in the north, so the ducks
and geese must go south. That is simple
logic. But what- is it that in the spring
makes them leave tropical feeding grounds,
and travel several thousand miles back to
the regions where they were raised? At
best, migration is mysterious. Theories
have been voiced galore.

A few centuries ago, the Europeans be-
lieved that swallows hibernated the winter
months away buried in mud. A French-
man, however, had his doubts, and to test
out the theory, tied bright red yarn to the
feet of many of the birds. He knew that
a month or more in mud would sadly fade
such material. If, however, when the birds
returned the following spring, the color
was still bright, then the mud theory would
be smashed. Needless to say, the color
was still bright. This Frenchman was
really the father of present-day bird band-
1n .

glt often seems to the casual observer
that some individual birds stay in the same
spot through the whole year. I have in
mind the song sparrows of the eastern
states. Bird banding, however, has shown
that in most cases they all move a slight
bit southward, but that, due to their large
breeding range, they are present both win-
ter and summer. As an example, song
sparrows that nest in Maine, winter in
Boston, while those that breed in Boston,
move south to New Jersey, and so on down
the coast.

Insects, ﬁsh, mammals, and occasionally
reptiles, have members of their group
which travel from a summer to a winter
range. In the insect class the best—known
example is the monarch butterﬂy. These
gorgeous brown creatures gather on
branches in the fall of the year. When
the group reaches sufﬁcient size, they take
off and head southward. Very few of them
reach their destination. Winds blow them

off their course, and they are preyed upon
by their many enemies, but nevertheless

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 116
Poisoned Wild Life

EMORY WARD

EVERAL months ago I became ac-
S quainted with an interesting individual
who had formerly been a large ranch owner
in the western states, and whose knowledge
of wild life was extensively garnished by
years of actual experience in the out-of-
doors. He willingly admitted that he had
done considerable trapping, himself, in h1s
younger days, yet he was bitterly opposed
to the use of poisoned baits to secure the
pelts of the fur bearers.

One type of poison is used on grain, he
revealed, to kill oﬂ" excessive ground squir-
rels who are blamed for much destruction
on the western farms and ranches. This
poison brings death not only to the animals
who taste the baited grain, but also to
others who feast on the poisoned bodies of
their fallen comrades. In action, the poison
is slow, and the animals crawl painfully
back to their dens to suffer a slow death.

“I have known many cases,” he declares,
“where domestic dogs and cats have eaten
the ﬂesh of a poisoned squirrel, and have
died, themselves, in consequence. Skunks,
coyotes, and many coon are likewise killed
by the poisoned ﬂesh.”

The baited grain with its fatal poison
brings death to countless quail, meadow
larks, and other precious song birds each
year, as well as to the smaller animals of
ﬁeld and forest. Even the hawks and eagles
who feed on the bodies of the poisoned song
birds are fatally affected.

“I have seen many small cottontails limp
slowly to their holes,” he informed me, “to
die in pain and agony because of the poi-
soned grain. God knows it’s cruel enough to
capture the small fur bearers in steel traps,
yet the use of poison is a far greater crime.”

He likewise revealed that in some in-
stances carbon bisulphide is used, and the
animals are trapped and killed within their
own dens. A little of this liquid poisoning
is poured on a handful of old rags or news-
papers, and then ignited. The blazing mass
is thrust deep into the squirrel hole, and all
entrances are sealed. The animals are thus
entombed hopelessly in the poisonous fumes.

I was astounded at the wholesale destruc-
tion which my comrade described. “But why
must the animals be poisoned?” I asked
him. “Why must the ground squirrels be
exterminated in such destructive numbers?”

My friend shook his head. “It is entirely
unnecessary,” he replied. “Although I will
admit that the ground squirrels are respon-
sible for a considerable amount of damage
on the farms and ranches of our western
states, yet they are not as greatly respon-
sible as the farmers would have us believe.
The same thing was done with the coyotes.
The sheepmen said that the coyotes were
killing hundreds of their sheep, but when
they started to poison off the plunderers,
as many of their own sheep were the vic-
tims of their poison as were the coyotes who
raided the ﬂocks.”

I shook my head. “What a sacriﬁce of
precious wild life,” I told him, “to satisfy
an individual’s selﬁsh greed.”

He nodded. And the silence was as im-
pressive as any words he could have spoken.

Join the Jack London Club and help stop

the cruelty of trained animal acts.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

WATERBUCK (TRANSVAAL)

 

Counsel for the Defense
DAVID LEE WHARTON

ADIES and gentlemen of the jury!

Having been appointed by the highest
tribunal of the universe to defend the pris-
oner at the bar, he having no method of
defense, lacking even the power of speech, I
shall state brieﬂy a few of the reasons why
he should be set at liberty and returned to
his original home.

To begin with, my client not only has not
had a fair trial, but he has had no trial
of any kind whatsoever. How could he, when
he has not been so much as accused of any
crime, or even misdemeanor? He- was seized
by force while in the peaceful pursuit of
life, liberty and happiness, in his God given
home, thrown into a cage too small to ad-
mit of any kind of exercise, and in addi-
tion made a gazing stock for the crass and
morbidly curious. In the fearful prison
known as the “zoo,” there is no possibility
of a pardon, no curtailing of sentence for
good behavior, no parole. In short, he is a
lifer, and may well say “All hope abandon,
ye who enter here.” He has no exercise, no
entertainment is provided for him, as there
is for the human prisoner, even though the
human has been convicted of the most hein-
ous crimes.

The prosecution has told you that the in-
carceration and exploitation of the prisoner
is a necessary adjunct to the education of
the “higher” animal. Will some one kindly
explain how any man, woman or child could
possibly be beneﬁtted intellectually, spiritu-
ally, or in any other way by gaping curi-
ously upon the misery of a fellow creature
cruelly pent up to make a moronic holiday?
In the hour of death will a man be more ﬁt
to enter eternity and meet his Maker be-
cause he has looked upon a magniﬁcent tiger

 

Aug. 1931;

and other lordly denizens of the jungle
lying in futile rage and despair upon the
ﬂoor of a cage, which in addition to being
a prison cell is utterly inadequate in every
respect? Look! if you have the presumption,
upon the indescribably piteous face of the
prisoner, can you not understand the shame
he feels for the insensate who gaze indif-
ferently upon his unhappiness? Try to put
yourself in the place of the victim upon
whose behalf I have the honor to stand
before you. How vociferous would be your
demands for a “fair” trial! How stentorian
your shouts regarding your “inalienable
rights!” ‘

It is not pity alone which we seek. It is
JUSTICE, simple, stark justice, ordinary
humanity, the semblance of a square deal!

Are there not enough fair minded, think-
ing men and women upon this jury to ren-
der a humane and righteous verdict in be—
half of this captive, listed among the dumb,
but whose very muteness pleads more thun-
derously than the babel of thousands of
human tongues?

Ladies and gentlemen of the jury, it is
up to you!

New Act of Parliament

We are glad to publish the text of the
Protection of Animals Act, 1934, which
regulates so-called rodeos in Great Britain.

Chapter 21

An Act to provide further protection to
certain animals. [17th May 1934.]
Be it enacted by the King’s most Excel-

lent Majesty, by and with the advice and
consent of the Lords Spiritual and Tem-
poral, and Commons, in this present Parlia-
ment assembled, and by the authority of
the same, as follows :—

1.—(1) No person shall promote, or
cause or knowingly permit to take place
any public performance which includes any
episode consisting of or involving——

(a) throwing or casting, with ropes or
other appliances, any unbroken horse
or untrained bull; or

(b) wrestling, ﬁghting, or struggling
with any untrained bull; or

(c) riding, or attempting to ride, any
horse or bull which by the use of any
appliance or treatment involving
cruelty is, or has been, stimulated
with the intention of making it buck
during the performance;

and no person shall in any public perform-
ance take part in any such episode as afore-
said.

(2) For the purposes of proceedings
under paragraph (a) or paragraph (b) of
the preceding subsection, if an animal
appears or is represented to spectators to
be unbroken or untrained it shall lie on the
defendant to prove that the animal is in
fact broken or trained.

2. If any person contravenes any of the
provisions of the foregoing section, he shall
be liable upon summary conviction to a ﬁne
not exceeding one hundred pounds, or, al-
ternatively, or in addition thereto, to be im-
prisoned for any term not exceeding three
months.

3.-——(1) This Act may be cited as the Pro-
tection of Animals Act, 1934.

(2) This Act shall not extend to Northern
Ireland.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

l.

 

 

 

Page 90

 
 
  
     

GLORY TO
GOD,
PEACE ON EARTH,
KINDNESS, JUSTICE 0
AND MERCY TO
EVERY LIVING
CREATURE.

  

 
 
  

7.
m
2

   
    
 

Founded by Geo. T. Angell Incorporated 1889

For rates of membership in both of our Societies
see back cover. Checks should be made payable to
Treasurer.

Ofﬁcers of the American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds

JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board

CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President, United Shoe
Machinery Corporation

PHILIP STOCKTON, President, First National Bank of
Boston

Foreign Corresponding Representatives

George B. Duff .................... Australia

Luis Pareja Cornejo .............. Ecuador

Charles A. Williams .............. France

Leonard T. Hawksley ............. Italy

Mrs. Mary P. E. Nitobe ........... Japan

Mrs. Marie C. E. Houghton ........ Madeira

Dr. A. T. Ishkanian ............... Mexico

Luther Parker .................... Philippine Islands
Joaquin Julia ..................... Spain

Mrs. Alice W. Manning ........... Turkey

Humane Press Bureau
Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke, Secretary
180 Longwood Ave., Boston

Field Workers of the Society
Mrs. Alice L. Park, Palo Alto, California
Mrs. Rachel C. Hogue, San Diego, California
Mrs. Jennie R. Nichols, Tacoma, Washington
James D. Burton, Harriman, Tennessee
Mrs. Katherine Weathersbee, Atlanta, Georgia
Rev. F. Rivers Barnwell, Forth Worth, Texas
Miss Blanche Finley, Richmond, Virginia
Rev. John W. Lemon, Ark, Virginia
Miss Lucia F. Gilbert, Boston, Massachusetts
Mrs. Jennie R. Toomim, Chicago, Ill.
Seymour Carroll, Columbia, S. C.
Rev. R. E. Grifﬁth, De Land, Florida

Field Representative

Wm. F. H. Wentzel, M.S., Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

Field Lecturer in Massachusetts
Ella A. Maryott

A Dog Hero

A SHORT time ago some explorers were
digging out a part of Pompeii, that city
which, many centuries ago, was suddenly
destroyed by an eruption of Vesuvius. Out-
side a house they found the body of a small
boy looking almost as if he had fallen
asleep. The little fellow had been over-
taken by the clouds of poison gas and tor-
rents of red-hot ashes from the volcano.

By the side of the boy was a big dog with
its teeth caught in his master’s cloak. It
looked as though the dog had made a great
effort to save the boy. Around the dog’s
neck was a big silver collar. The metal
was all tarnished, but when cleaned it was
seen to have this inscription in Latin:—

“This dog has thrice saved the life of his
little master. Once from ﬁre, once from
water, and once from thieves.”

Even at this last hour, when destruction
poured down from the sky, it was plain that
the faithful animal had tried to save his
little master a fourth time.

P. B. PRIOR

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Annual Meeting, Fez Fon-
douk Committee

HE annual meeting of this Committee
was held April 24 in the directors’

room of the American S. P. C. A., 50 Madi—
son Avenue, New York City. The Annual
Report was issued some weeks previously.

Dr. Rowley, president since the Com—
mittee was formed, begged to be relieved
from the duties involved and was succeeded
by Sydney H. Coleman, executive vice-
president of the American S.P.C.A. Charles
A. Williams was re-elected secretary, and
M. E. Lyon, treasurer. The Committee now
consists of the following members:

President, Sydney H. Coleman, president,
The American Humane Association, execu-
tive vice—president, American S. P. C. A.,
50 Madison Avenue, New York City; presi-
dent emeritus, Dr. Francis H. Rowley, 180
Longwood Ave., Boston, Mass; vice-presi—
dent, Mrs. C. F. Bishop, 15 East 67th St.,
New York, Hotel Ritz, Paris; secretary,
Charles A. Williams, 2 Boulevard de l’Ob-
servatoire (Condamine), Monaco, Princi—
pauté de Monaco; treasurer, M. E. Lyon, 2
Wall Street, New York; directors, the above-
named and General Comte Adelbert de
Chambrun, 58, Rue Vaugirard, Paris; Com-
tesse Longworth de Chambrun, 58, Rue
Vaugirard, Paris; The Hon. Percival P.
Baxter, Portland, Maine; Mrs. Homer Gage,
8 Chestnut Street, Worcester, Mass; Mrs.
Newbold Morris, 1081 Fifth Avenue, New
York City; Mrs. R. M. Riccard, Hawthorn-
den, So. Molton, England; and Mrs. Orme
Wilson, 3 East 64th Street, New York
City.

Contributions hereafter may be sent to
M. E. Lyon, treasurer.

Report for March, 1934—31 Days

Francs

Daily average large animals 3 .
Forage for same 1,256.50

Daily average dogs .
Forage for same 56.75
Large animals humanely put to sleep 18 150.00
Transportation 126.00
Wages, grooms, etc. 1,394.00
Inspector’s wages 434.00
Superintendent’s salary 2,400.00
Assistant’s salary 1,250.00
Veterinary’s salary 400.00
Motor allowance 250.00
Sundries 403.50
8,121.25
or $537.83*

Entries: 8 horses, 10 mules, 28 donkeys.

Exits: 3 horses, 15 mules, 22 donkeys.

Monthly Report of Supt.’s assistant, and inspector:
Visits to 70 native fondouks, the two markets for
animals held twice weekly, and distances walked
throughout the Souks and the Medina, the Mellah,
the Ville Nouvelle, where are the police headquarters,
and the Batha Division. Kilometers traveled, 264;
visits, 632; animals seen, 8,106; animals treated, 2,158;
animals transferred, 23.

SUPT.’S NOTE: Less visits to the native fon-
douks because of the big Arab feast, and few animals
in town because of the bad weather.

*At the former value of the dollar $324.85 would
have gone as far as $537.83 does now. ~

Retired Workers’ Fund

We are receiving gifts to- the American
Humane Education Society as a trust fund,
the interest to be used for the beneﬁt of
ﬁeld missionaries and others who have
spent their lives in promoting humane
education.

We will welcome your contribution to
this fund. Please make checks payable to
Treasurer, American Humane Education
Society, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, and
specify that the amount contributed is for
the Humane Education Trust Fund.

June, 1931;

 

 

 

The Last Photo of John,
Burroughs

SHELBY E. SOUTHARD

ERE is reproduced (for the ﬁrst time)

the last photograph ever taken of John
Burroughs, America’s most beloved natural-
ist. It was snapped by Mr. Albert E. Still-
man at Mr. Stillman’s home in San Diego,
California, just a short time before Mr. Bur-
roughs died over ten years ago. Perhaps
the greatest friend wild life has ever had in
America, John Burroughs will be remem-
bered as long as kindly men stoop to render
aid to their stricken companions in the more
lowly forms of life. At Slabsides, his pic-
turesque natural hm, John Burroughs be-
friended the birds and wrote in simple but
exquisite prose of their plight. These writ-
ings had a profound effect on American
public opinion, and to them many observers
trace the trend toward. legislation in defense
of birds and animals threatened with extinc-
tion by thoughtless hunters.

Burroughs was never a fanatic on the
subject, but his kindly logic prevailed on
minds when ranting would have had no in-
ﬂuence. A lovable man, who saw only a
sweet adventure in the business of living
from day to day, Burroughs found his hap-
piness in the simplicity of his life, which he
made a very complete success without sub-
mitting to the feverish rule of modern inter-
course. For him the world was a natural
creation whose beauty he and his own kind
were doing more to tear down and disrupt
than any of nature’s other children. His
forceful writings remain and will remain
classics of modern persuasion toward the be-
lief that mankind is only a sharer of this
planet and its beneﬁts along with the birds
and beasts and all creation. Some day we,
too, must humbly submit to this view.

Friends

“The bluff, cheery optimism of the late
Senator Frye,” said a friend, “could not
brook a whiner. Once at a dinner a whiner
seated opposite Senator Frye said dole-
fully, ‘I have only one friend on earth—my
dog.’ ‘Why don’t you get another dog?’ said
Senator Frye.”

 

. 9
L .I
h'
, 4,
‘ ‘ i .11.)"
‘ - . ' . ' - . I: r.
<" "M‘Hdl .‘ was ‘ .. —" a; ' ' .

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

FREE Write {or
BOOKLET NO. 652

 
   
      
    

F . on the practical re-
0" moval of worms in
DOGS Dogs of all breeds

and ages.

ETRACHLORETHYLENE C. T.

WORM CAPSULES

_, ﬁectz'oely remove

large Roundworms and Hookworms

Th safe, easy-to- give worm treatment.
Degendable. For free boo/ere: WRITE TO

PARKE, DAVIS 8; C0.

Der/e N -58 H, Animal I ndurtry Dept, Detroit, M 1c]:
-- Drug Stores Sell Perée- Davis Products.—

 

 

 

 

 

.‘~‘.’~‘O.°’%¢O$~$.
2 To Assure a Healthy ’
3

Scalp use

“tiegAPﬁ, and

olNTMENT ’
I
0

Price 250. each. Sample free.
Address: “ Cut1cura,” Dept. 9K, Malden, Mass.

O$“O$~¢OOO$~¢O$“

 

 

 

THIS SPACE
CONTRIBUTED

 

 

 

 

 

Reﬁned woman of reduced income, living
alone, in comfortable home in suburbs of
Boston, has enclosed beautiful garden, wishes
to board someone who likes cats.
Address E. F. K. c/o. Dr. F. H. Rowley
Our Dumb Animals

 

 

 

 

 

Since 1832

J. S. WATERMAN & SONS, Inc.
ﬁﬂnhertakers

BOSTON—BROOKLINE—CAMBRIDGE
City and Out-of—Town Service

 

 

 

 

 

Humane literature and Band of Mercy Supplies

For Sale at 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass. at these prices, postpaid.

Titles in bold-face type are of books or booklets

The Great Cruelty, summary of Dr. Rowley’s address on humane slaughtering .................. Free

Our Dumb Animals, 1933, bound volume $1.00
Our Dumb Animals, January to Decem-

ber,1929,1931, and 1932, bound in

cloth, special, each .................. .75
Colored Posters, 17 x 28 inches, with

attractive pictures and verses, six in

the set .............................. 1.00
Be Kind to Animals Blotters, 6%x3% . .$0.50_per 100

About the Horse

Black Beauty (English), cloth, 45 cents; paper, 20 cts.
The Shame of It—Mutilating the horse

by setting up his tail. Dr. Rowley’s

protest against this cruelty for fash-

ion’s sake. Four illus., 4 pp. ....... Free
What Constitutes Cruelty, Francis H.

Rowley ............................. $0.30 per 100
Humane Horse Book, 32 pp. 5 cts., or. 00
The Horse——Tr€atment of Sores; etc .. 5.60 “ “
Humane Education Leaﬂet, N0. 5 ...... .50 “ “
The Horse’s Pray er ................ .30 “ “
The Bell of Atri, Poem by Longfellow .. .50 “ “

About the Dog

Beautiful Joe, new, illus., $1.50 ....... small, 50 cts.
Distemper in Dogs, Dr. Schneider ...... Free
Rabies vs. Running Fits, Dr. Schneider . Free

Eulogy on the Dog, by Vest, post- card . $1.00 per 100
The Dog—Its Care in Health and Disease .60

Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 3 and 4 .50 “ “
What the Chained Dog Says ........... .50 “ “
The Story of Barry .................... .30 “ “

About the Bird

The Birds of God, 318 pp., illus. ...... cloth, $0. 45
The Trial of the Birds, play ........... $2. 00 per 100
Humane Education Leaﬂets Nos. 1 and 2 .

How the Birds Help the Farmer ...... .50 “ “
The Air-gun and the Birds ............ .50 “ “

About the Cat

The Cat—Its Care in Health and Disease $0.60 per 100
Surplus Cats 50
The Cat in Literature ................ .50 “ “
Do Not Leave Your Cat to Starve .
“The Beggar Cat,” post-card, 6 cts. doz. .50 “ “

About Other Animals

Prince Rudolf’s Quest, Kenniston, 150

pp., special . . .................... boards, 50 cts.
The Strike at Shanes, cloth, 30 cts. .paper, 7cts.
For Pity’ s Sake ....................... paper, 5 cts.
Michael Brother of Jerry, Jack London, cloth, 75 cts.
First Aid to Animals, Dr. Schneider, 8 pp. $1.00 per 100

What is the Jack London Club. ...... .30
Foreword from “Michael Brother of

Jerry” .................... .30 “ “
Gripped in the Teeth of Steel, 2 pp. . . .. 1.00 “ “
How to Kill Animals Humanely, 4 pp. .. 1.00 “ “
Leaﬂets, No. 6, Animals ............... .50 “ “
Leaﬂets, No. 7, Farm Animals ......... .50 “ “
Hints on the Care of Cows ............ .50 “ “
Rules for the Care of Poultry .......... .60 “ “
Ways of Kindness ..................... .50 “ “

Humane Education

The Humane Bulletin, for use in schools,

96 pp. ................. 12 cents each; ten for $1.00
Care and Kindness for Our Animal

Friends, 29 pp., paper covers, many

illus. ................. 15 cents each ; seven for $1.00
Kindness Picture Book, 32 pp., 15 cts. ; seven for $1.00
The Teacher’s Helper in Humane Edu-

cation, 32 pp. ...................... each, 10 cts.
Humane Education—for Parents and

Teachers, 20 pp. .................... each, 10 cts.
An Early Start to Kindness, Lucia F.

Gilbert, 48 pp. For ﬁrst and second

grades ............................. each, 10 cts.
Picture Lesson Cards, each 10 cts., set

of eight ............................ 35 cts.
“Be Kind to Animals’ pennants ....... each 25 cts.
“Be Kind to Animals” placards ....... each, 3 cts.
The Humane Idea, Dr. Francis H.

Rowley . . .............. cloth, 35 cts. ; paper, 15 cts.

Friends and Helpers (selections for
school use), Sarah J. Eddy .......... cloth, 96 cts.
Animals as Seen by the Poets, Guy
Richardson, 32 pp. ................... cloth, 35 cts.
Lessons on Kindness to Animals ....... $3.00 per 100
The B—K—T—A—Club, play, 3 cts. each; ten for 25c.
Fred Changes His Mind, play, 5 cts. each; six for 25c.
“And a Little’Child Shall Lead Them.”
play .................... 3 cts. each, ' ten for 25 cts.
Friends of Fur and Feather, play, .
3 cts. each; ten for 25 cts.
Humane Exercises for use in Schools

(1934) .............................. $1.50 per 100
Humane Day in Schools, with class-room -
project, 8 pp. ....................... 2.00 “, “

Humane Education the Vital Need, Dr.
Rowley, short radio address, 3 cts. each; 1.50 “ “
Our Little Brothers and Sisters, sermon

for boys and girls, by Dr. Jefferson .. .50 “ “'
Humane Education, What to Teach and

How to Teach It .. ............. .50 “ “
Outlines of Study in Humane Education 1.50 “ “
Early Lessons in Kindness or Cruelty .50 "‘ “
A Talk with the Teacher .............. .50 “ “
Our Love for Animals, a short radio ad-

dress .. ........ 5 cts. each; 2.50 “ “
Hints for Humane Sunday ............. .75 “ “
A Festival of Tender Mercies .......... .50 “
The Coming Education ............. .30 “ “
A Great Prophecy, Dr. Rowley ......... Free
American College Presidents and the _

American Humane Education Society . . Free

Band of Mercy

“Be Kind to Animals” Buttons, three

styles—Band of Mercy, Humane So-

ciety, or S. P. C. A. ................ $1.00 per 100
Buttons—white star on blue ground with

gilt letters and border, one cent each 1.00 “ “
Badges, gold ﬁnish, large, 10 cts. small, 5 cts.
“Band of Mercy” Pennant ........... 35 cts.
Songs of Happy Life, with music, S.

J. Eddy ..................... 5O cts.
Songs of Happy Life (56 pages, words

only) . ........................... $3.00 per 100
Band of Mercy Membership Card ......
How to Form Bands of Mercy ..... .50 “ “
Does it Pay, Story of one Band of Mercy .30 “ “

Please enclose remittance with orders for less than $1

AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY, 180 Longwood Ave., Boston, Mass.

 

 

 

 

Do You Realize the Value

of Superior Humane Films for use in Theatre, Church, Club or School?

THE BELL OF ATRI

Illustiating Longfellow’s humane poem of that title, has been exhibited before enthusiastic audiences not only
throughout the United States and Canada but in every continent (except Australia) on the globe.

ON BEHALF OF ANIMALS

Newly ﬁlmed by the Harvard University Foundation; the most up- -to- date and comprehensive pictorial representa-
tion of the activities of a Humane Society yet offered to the public; showing the work of the Angell Memorial Animal

Hospital and the Rest Home for Horses of the Massachusetts S. P. C. A.

Both ﬁlms are available for purchase or rental in 16 mm. and 35 mm. size. Write for full particulars to

Secretary, American Humane Education Society, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

,_ 7“,? H “W mf— .-

 

 

 

 

 

Page 190

03112 "flaunt! of ﬁlling

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary
E. A. MARYOTT, State Organizer

PLEDGE

I will try to be kind to all living creatures and
try to protect them from cruel usage.

The American Humane Education Society will send
to every person who forms a Band of Mercy of thirty
members, and sends the name chosen for the Band and
the name and post-office address of the president who
has been duly elected, special Band of Mercy literature
and a gilt badge for the president. .

See inside front cover for prices of literature and

Band of Mercy supplies.

NEW BANDS OF MERCY

One thousand, one hundred and seventy-
two new Bands of Mercy were reported dur-
ing October. Of these 330 were in Texas, 173
in New Hampshire, 166 in Massachusetts,
164 in Virginia, 119 in South Carolina, 52
in Georgia, 48 in Florida, 47 in Rhode
Island, 38 in Illinois, 17 in Pennsylvania,
six in Maryland, six in New York, and one
each in Delaware, Minnesota, Newfound-
land, New Jersey, Nova Scotia and Ver-
mont.

Total number of Bands of Mercy organ-
ized by Parent American Society, 204,792.

The Wring-off

LUCIA FESSENDEN GILBERT

T was a cold, bleak, windy day in the late

autumn, and Trapper B. was just start-
ing out to visit his trap-line. It was a long
line, and he knew he could not visit it all
that day, but he could make a beginning.
He had bought a large supply of traps, of
different sizes, and hoped to get a great
many pelts. A drive of ﬁve miles on a
narrow, winding, lonely road would bring
him to the beginning of the trap-line.

“0 Daddy, take me with you!” called
little Tom, seeing his father start to get
into the car. Tom was always ready for
a ride.

“All right, son, come along. Hurry! And
bundle up warm. This Wind’s got an edge
to it.” The little fellow hurried, and he and
his father were soon off for a ﬁne long
jaunt together. They were very good
friends, and Tom always said he wanted to
be just like Daddy and do everything he did.

At the beginning of a long wooded val-
ley which led far up among the hills, and
down which ran a small stream, Mr. B.
stopped the car, said good—bye to Tom, and
started off up the trail alone, for the walk
was much too long and rough and hard for
ﬁve-year-old legs. But Tom always found
plenty to do in the car. There were many
pockets to be explored, and many funny
knobs and handles to poke, and Daddy
never forgot to leave two or three apples
within reach. He had left the door open,
so that Tom could scramble in and out as he
pleased, and he was always good about not
wandering off and getting into trouble. Mr.
B.’s stalwart ﬁgure disappeared in the for-
est. After an hour or two Tom, though a
plucky child, began to feel lonesome. Once
he thought he heard, very far off, a strange,
terrible, small wailing. It went on faintly,
at a great distance, and couldn’t seem to
stop. Tom felt sorry about it, though he
could not have told why, for he had no idea
what it meant, and he thought he would
like to crawl down on the ﬂoor of the car
and play with some of the interesting little

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

iron things that his father always had in
the tool-box. He liked such playthings, and
was trying various experiments as he sat on
the floor, while the wind seemed to be blow-
ing harder than ever outside. Suddenly a
violent gust caught the open door and furi-
ously banged it shut.

Up in the woods Trapper B. was meeting
some disappointments. In two traps he
found only little raw feet. “Those con-
founded wring-offsl” he muttered. “What
do the varmints want to bite their legs off
for, I should like to know?” In several other
traps he found small beasts still caught and
still alive. He killed and skinned them, not
waiting to see very carefully whether he
had ﬁnished the ﬁrst ope-ration before he
began the second, and then, swinging the
pelts over his shoulder, he came down the
road, whistling cheerfully. He would be
glad to see Tom. Fine little chap! So glad
he was not a girl, like the older children.
In another ﬁve years he could go out on the
trap-line and help.

As he drew nearer the road where the
car stood—about a quarter of a mile away—
he thought he heard much the same kind
of shrieking wail that Tom had heard, only
more muffled. It went on and on without a
moment’s pause, and it grew decidedly loud-
er as he went on.

“Well, I’ve got more luck than I thought
I had. I didn’t remember that I set a trap
down here, but I mustghave set one some-
where hereabouts. That’s a trapped animal
all right. There’s nothing else sounds like
it. It must be a rabbit. They always sound
sort of human-like.” He searched about, up
and down, to ﬁnd that trap.

At last he came out into the road. Clear-
er, wilder, much louder grew the frenzied
wail. There was something that seemed like
words mixed up in it. At last he heard,
“Daddy!” With one terriﬁc shout and
scream and headlong rush, he reached the
automobile and pulled the tightly-jammed
door open.

:l< * >l< >l<

No,BTom did not die. They rushed him to
the far—away village doctor in time to have
his hand amputated and save him from
blood-poison. But he had gone crazy. He
was never the same again.

That was Tom’s “wring-off.”

(An experienced trapper told the writer
that this was an accurate story.)

LITTLE JEAN LOVELY, SUDBURY, MASS., AND PETS

Dec. 1931,

 

“Sambo,” Talking Spaniel

OR nine years “Sambo,” a spaniel who is

reported to have talked with human
words in making his wants known, was the
valued pet of Mrs. Inez B. Scott and her son,
of Warren St., Boston. But the dog’s life
was accidentally snuffed out by an automo-
bile this fall. “His jolly, ‘Ah wanna go owut
morel’; his teasing ‘Ah wan’ ’um more’ and
many other astonishing requests made us
realize all a dog could do with his vocal
cords besides bark or cry,” writes Mrs.
Scott, who sends the above picture of this
really remarkable animal. The dog now
rests in Hillside Acre, the animal cemetery
of the Massachusetts S. P. C. A. at Methuen.

Albert-Ross and Kitti-Wake

Answers to Birds’ Names’ Puzzle Published
on the Children’s Page Last Month

1, Jenny Wren. 2, Jack Daw. 3, Parson
Finch. 4, Tailor bird. 5, Black cat. 6,
Cygnet (ring). 7, Blackbird. 8, Kingﬁsher.
9, Pufﬁn. 10, Swallow. 11, Bird of Para-
dise. 12, Peacock. 13, Laughing jackass.
14, Lyre bird. 15, Humming-bird. 16, Ca—
nary. 17, Crane. 18, Pelican. 19, Kit. 20,
Bunting. 21, Ducks and Drakes. 22, Stormy
petrel. 23, Duck. 24, Goose. 25, Owl. 26,
Rook. 27, Quail. 28, Grouse. 29, Thrush.
30, Flycatcher. 31, Nightingale. 32, Tou-
can.

Though it may be that the man who pro-
tects an animal . from ill-treatment acts
solely with the object of befriending the
animal, yet none the less the kindly deed
reacts upon his own character, and ‘makes
him a better citizen. PRINCE OF WALES

 

 

. «

 




 

       

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

NOVEMBER |934 I . PRICE IO CENTS
THE MASSACHUSETTS SOCIETY FOR THE
PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS «
AND THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY

 

 

 




 

 

Sept. 1931;

Animal’s Devotion

A Letter in The Christian Science Monitor

OES not the secret of animal intelli-

gence lie somewhat with humanity it-
self? There is a story of a man living some-
where on the Western Australian seaboard,
Whose habit it was to swim out every morn-
ing to an outlying island and back. He was a
great lover of all living creatures, and he
would be regularly accompanied by a con-
voy of sharks, who made, however, no
attempt to attack him. On the other hand,
there is a particular breed of dog, originally
kept solely to be slaughtered for their furry
coats. Bred but to this end and treated
accordingly, is it any wonder that, even
as domestic pets, they still should remain
notoriously the most reserved and aloof of
their kind?

On the whole, however, the place of dogs
and horses in the hearts of a humanity
which often ﬁnds there its only common
ground of devotion serves as the best ex-
ample of the high degree of intelligence to
be elicited by love. Whereas jungle life,
with its endless preying of one upon an-
other, on the contrary, is surely an equally
telling epitome of those human lusts that
send men forth to kill for sport or food.

To those who urge the argument that
man was given dominion over the beasts, I
would reply that man has but to ﬁnd his
dominion over the bestial elements of hu-
man thought to see in the animal creation
such qualities as happiness, gentleness,
trustfulness, grace and beauty, indeed cre—
ated for his enjoyment and food—food for
thought rather than the body. Is it not, by
the way, a signiﬁcant fact that the horse»
and the cow, the elephant and the camel,
strongest (the ﬁrst proverbially) , most use-
ful as well as most intelligent of beasts,
should themselves subsist on the “herb bear-
ing seed . . . and every tree, in which is the
fruit of a tree yielding seed,” the which,
however impractical to implement, it is
equally biblically laid down for us, alone
“shall be for meat.” And what of one
Daniel, who is on record as having substi-
tuted “pulse” for the “King’s meat” ’ere
later facing unscathed the king of beasts?

Do animals think? Have the stars in
their courses intelligence? Is man himself
intelligent? The fact is that neither the
one nor the other can be truly said to boast
any intelligence of their own, so much as
being individual manifestations of the one
intelligence that, rightly sensed, shines
tenderly and majestically through nature
itself.

If animals do not think in terms of hu-
man reason, they yet express this intelli-
gence in some measure, thus entitling them
to a sure entry into our fullest considera-
tion and compassion.

EDGAR NEWGASS

London, Eng.

Who Want War?

It’s not the men who were in the last
war. It’s not the people of any land. It’s
chieﬂy the soulless manufacturers of mu-
nitions who have piled up millions for
themselves over the graves of millions of
their fellows. May the day come when such
war material as must be manufactured
shall be Wholly taken out of the hands of
private companies. —Boston Herald

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Page ‘139

 

TWO DISTINGUISHED ENGLISH HUMANITARIANS

Left, Colonel Leonard Noble of Harpsden Court, Henley-on-Thames, the oldest
member in years of service of the Council of the Royal S. P. C. A.; right, Sir Robert
Gower, M. P., who has secured most valuable humane legislation through the British
Parliament, and is recognized in Parliament as an outstanding champion of animal life.

 

Breaking Nature’s Balance
CARL SCHURZ LOWDEN

AMPERING with Nature is dangerous

business. Nature maintains its own
balance. Whenever man unsettles or upsets
this status quo he brings about inﬁnitely
worse conditions than existed before.

About sixty years ago many of our native
songbirds nested in lawns, orchards and the
eaves of outbuildings. One could sit inside
his home by a window and watch cheery
bluebirds, wrens, redbirds, orioles, robins,
catbirds and purple martins. Even the
brown thrasher would venture into the
shrubbery to raise its family. Most of these
birds have changed their habits, not from
preference but to escape association with
alien birds.

Originally St. Helena, where Napoleon
was exiled, had a great forest spreading
over its area. The people wanted milk and,
as cattle would not do well there, they im-
ported goats which would serve the double
purpose of supplying milk and meat. The
herds of goats soon increased so rapidly
that they got out of hand. The large trees
were sold for lumber. The goats ate the
young trees with the result that the island
is now barren.

The owner of an estate in Hungary im-
ported muskrats and turned them loose on
his land. Perhaps he thought the animals
would enhance the attractiveness of his
place, or he may have planned to have a
fur farm. In a few years the animals multi-
plied enormously because in Hungary they
did not encounter their natural enemies
which would normally keep them within
conservative numbers. They undermined
dams and canals. They wrought such de-
plorable destruction that the government
ﬁnally announced it would pay $25,000 to
any person who would restore Hungary to
its former plane of a muskrat-free country.

Sugar planters on the South American

 

island of Trinidad. prospered until half a
century ago. Then the damage done by
countless rats rose to such proportions that
the future of the sugar industry was
shrouded in blackness. What could be done?
The rats would not be tempted into traps.
Neither ferrets nor cats could reduce their
alarming numbers. In desperation the plant-
ers imported the furry mongoose from In-
dia. In a few years the newcomer had dis-
posed of the rats. But even a mongoose
must eat; so it raided poultry yards, ate
the eggs and the chickens, then it centered
its attention upon the native birds. Now it
happened that the birds had been keeping
the caterpillars under control; so the cater-
pillars and grasshoppers, freed from their
natural enemy, went on a destructive ram-
page. The end is not yet in sight, though the
government pays a bounty for the mongoose.

For many years Sable Island, off the coast
of Nova Scotia, had almost no animal life
other than rabbits and gulls. Rats came in
with a shipment of merchandise for the
lighthouse. Cats were then imported to ex-
terminate the rats. When that job was done
they cleaned up the rabbits. The cats be-
came so wild that the settlers conceived the
idea of obtaining foxes to deal with them.
When the foxes had destroyed the cats there
was so little food left for them that they
could not survive. Now the gulls are the
only animal life on the island.

Whenever and wherever man has tam-
pered with Nature’s exquisite balance among
her children he has invariably aggravated
distressful conditions.

Annual Humane Meeting

The ﬁfty-eighth annual meeting of the
American Humane Association will be
held at Columbus, Ohio, beginning Tuesday,
October 9, 1934, and continuing through
three days. Preparations are being made
for an unusually attractive program.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

Sept. 1934

Dobbin’s Heaven

MAGDALENE G. CLARK

When the drag of the bit seemed so hard
to endure,
You must have longed for release;
You dreamed of a heaven, Old Dobbin, I’m
sure,
And you pictured this haven of peace.

And now, as you stand by the old pasture
wall,
Away from the long-traveled road,
By the look in your eye, you’ve forgotten
it all——
The weariness—thirst—and the load.

In the shade of the trees you will peace-
fully drowse
And there by the brook you will sink
Your nose in its depths, while a few
friendly cows
Will gather there with you to drink.

Heaven comes upon earth if contentment
is there,
And you longed for a heaven you knew;
Rest after labor—and someone to share
In the joy of your dream coming true.

In the Rodeo’s Wake

The rodeo companies that perform peri-
odically in the small towns of the Middle
West throughout the summer months are
not only exhibitions of uncalled for cruelty
to dumb animals but, the members of the
companies being mostly young men without
conscience or honor, they contribute to the
moral delinquency of young people of both
sexes wherever they go. Not only this, but
many people spend money watching those
barbaric performances that they need for
bread and clothes. Any one of the many
counts against the rodeo is sufﬁcient to
justify legislation against it, and all of
them together make it a public nuisance.

Several instances are on record of the
moral wreckage that has followed in the
towns where these degrading exhibitions
have taken place. WILLIS MEHANNA

One of the hardest speeches in the world
to make sound convincing is the one setting
forth the reasons why your son can’t buy
a dog.

 

MERRY MATES

0 UR D UMB ANIMALS

 

Page 1.41

 

BRINGING CHILDREN TO SCHOOL, JACKSON HOLE, WYOMING

 

Here the snow is often ﬁve feet deep and covered sleighs drawn by horses are the

only means of transportation.
to perform their task.

The faithful animals put forth tremendous exertion

 

A Queer Little Hoax

MARGARET SHELTON

H0 is acquainted with the praying

mantis? For thousands of years, in
all parts of the world, this odd little creature
has borne a reputation for saintliness. The
cause has been that it habitually assumes
an attitude that appears devotional. Set-
tled on the ground, it raises it head and
thorax, clasps together the joints of its
front legs, raises them as if in supplication,
and remains in this posture for hours.

The name mantis (diviner) was given to
this insect by the Greeks, in accordance with
the notion that when the creature assumes
its strange attitude it is engaged in prayer.
Naturalists have encouraged this supersti-
tion by giving names to the different species
which imply some kind of sanctity; thus
we have the mantis oratoria, mantis religi-
osa, mantis superstitiosa, and so on. With
the French it is leprecheur (the preacher) ;
with the Germans it is Gottesbeterin (wor-
shiper of God) ; while the English—speaking
people have dubbed it the praying insect.

Species of insects known as mantis belong
to the order of orthoptera, which includes
crickets, grasshoppers, locusts, cockroaches,
and the like. They are of bright, variegated
colors, and are sometimes quite large, even
three or four inches in length. The mantis
lays its eggs at the end of the summer in
rounded fragile shells, which it attaches to
the branches of trees, and which do not
hatch till the following summer. It differs
in locomotion from its orthopterous rela-
tives which travel by jumps, while the man-
tis crawls so slowly that its progress can
be discerned only by careful and prolonged
watching.

There is another deﬁnite characteristic
by which the mantis differs from the other
groups of its order, for, while they are veg-
eterian, this insect is carnivorous. Not
only is it a carnivore which lives by killing
and devouring other insects; it is also a
creature of the most quarrelsome disposi-
tion; in fact, it is a ferocious cannibal. If
two of these insects are shut up together,
they engage in deadly combat. Even the
larvae attack one another. In their con-
tests the male, being smaller than the fe-
male, is often the victim.

The traditional religious attitude of this

ferocious little savage is simply a lying in
wait for food. He ﬁxes himself as if in
rapt devotion upon some convenient stalk
or leaf, and then bends his chest and shoul-
ders into almost an erect position, press-
ing together his arms in front, and looking
well out before him, with the palpi of his
lips slightly vibrating. In this expectant
mood he seems to remain motionless for
hours, but all the time he mounts slowly.
The closest watching does not reveal how
this most gradual of all climbing is accom-
plished. Not a limb can be seen to move,
yet on and on he glides. It is while in these
ﬁts of ecstasy that he seizes his prey. Pounc-
ing stealthily upon an unwary insect that
settles within convenient reach, he seizes
his victim between his upraised legs, and
ﬁxes it there between the rows of spikelets
with which these prehensile limbs are fur—
nished. After a deliberate inspection of
the morsel held in this position, he sets to
work to devour it.

Do not fancy that you will lower your-
selves by sympathy with the lower crea-
tures; you cannot sympathize rightly with
the higher, unless you do with those.

JOHN RUSKIN

There are about 12,000,000 dogs in the
United States and when the various food
concerns, small animal hospitals, breeding
kennels, and other canine industries are
considered, the value of the animals reaches
$80,000,000, says a pet magazine.

Will You Sign This Petition?

If so, please send us your name and ad-
dress as indicated below, and we will add
it to the list.

The Petition

We, the undersigned, knowing the great
and unnecessary cruelty of the present
methods of slaughtering food animals, do
hereby pledge ourselves to cut our con-
sumption of meat and meat products ten
per cent or more, until humane slaughter
is installed in every abattoir, all carcases
to be stamped “Humanely slaughtered.”

Name

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

Dec. 1934

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Taking Life in Tibet

RIN-CHEN LHA-MO

A Native Tibetan Woman

UR religion prohibits the taking of
© any kind of life. Animals have im-

mortal souls just as human beings
have. But man is the dominant creature
and he is carnivorous and so, with us, in
Tibet, the animals killed are just oxen,
sheep and pigs. In killing an animal every-
one repeats the prayer—formula, “om Mani
Padme Hum,” for its soul, and butter lights
are lit to light its soul’s path.

Oxen, sheep and pigs are large animals,
and the death of one of them provides
enough meat for many people. We do not,
like you, eat the smaller creatures. With
us, one life taken and many people are fed;
With you, often enough a life or more to a
mouthful, perhaps a hundred lives to an
ordinary dinner party, little creatures of all
kinds, animals, birds, ﬁshes, crustaceans.
You cook some creatures alive. It is dread-
ful to think of it. It always calls up to my
mind the witches of our myths, who killed
people by boiling them alive and then ate
them.

We have a custom in Tibet of dedicating
animals to Heaven. Such are never kill-ed.
You decide for instance to dedicate a yak.
You prepare four tags made of strips of
colored cloth. One is afﬁxed to each of its
ears, another to the hair on its withers, the
other on its tail. A lama (priest) then
scatters a little Ney over the yak saying a
prayer as he does so, and he gives it a
name after some lake or mountain. The
lama then smears some tsamba and some
butter on its head and back and tail. The
animal is thus consecrated and no one may
take its life. Sheep and goats are conse-
crated in the same way, except that names
are not always given them. In the case of
pigs and chickens and so on, no tags are
required and no names are given.

Especial merit attaches in our eyes to
dedicating a pig, for yaks and sheep, un-
dedicated, may or may not be killed,
whereas a pig, undedicated, is almost cer-
tain to be killed for food sooner or later.
Hence your dedication of it saves it from
almost certain death. Dedicated creatures
remain on the farm or in the herd, as you
please; or you may, if you like, give them
to the Gompa, or lamasery. In any case,
their lives are preserved. No Tibetan would
ever think of killing such an animal.

It is meritorious to restore their freedom
to wild creatures, releasing them back to
their natural surroundings; for instance,
throwing ﬁsh back into the river, or freeing
some captive bird or beast.

It was after my marriage to an English-
man that I was brought into the sphere of
promiscuous slaughter which is your diet.
At ﬁrst I tried to counteract the guilt. Our
cooks would take a life, and I would save
one; for instance, for one chicken eaten, one
was sent to the Gompa. But I could not
keep up the pace, for my husband had to
give large dinner parties; it was insepar-
able from his position. However, I saw to
it that we ate, as far as possible, only the
big things, not the little things which hardly
make a course. But it is disturbing to think

when one goes out to meals how many lives
have gone to the meal one is eating.

Retribution is sure when the decrees of
Heaven are violated. The cripples, the
blind, the twisted—all are the result of past
lives. Everybody knows it, but mankind. is
incorrigible. They will take life, and risk
it. To himself man is a jewel, something
precious. He is afraid of pain and death.
Sick, he sends for the doctor and the priest
and prays. But animals he kills intention-
ally. He considers them different, not
human. Yet they are just the same as he is.
In a life to come he may easily be an animal
and they men. The most perfect man cannot
escape the guilt of taking life, but others
take it wantonly. The hunter in the excite-
ment of the chase thinks not of the quarry,
but of himself, of his skill. His bullet hits
the mark and he is overjoyed.

Foreign writers twit us with the differ-
ence between precept and practice in this
matter of killing. They know our religion
forbids the taking of life, and they see life
is nevertheless taken, and they emphasize it
to our disparagement. But you are much
worse than we are in this very matter. We
kill as little as possible. We do not disre-
gard our religion, but make every effort to
follow it. The wonder is not that things are
killed, but that there is so little wanton
killing. You, on the other hand, make no
effort at all to avoid slaughter, yet your
religion teaches in this regard the- same pre-
cept as ours. But even without any deﬁnite
religious precept everybody knows it is
wrong to take life. Such knowledge is part
of the human conscience. But you consider
the interests of the lower animals must be
sacriﬁced to those of the human race; hence
your vivisection and your campaigns to ex-
terminate ﬂies and so on. Why then laugh
at us who are white to your black in this
matter?

 

RIDING ON A YAK IN TH

Page 189
. The Sailor and His Cat

An incident on shipboard.

A sailor bold was on a ship
That sailed the deep, blue sea;
0n the same ship there was a cat
As white as white could be.

The man and cat both friendly were
As every one could see

For everywhere the sailor went
The cat was sure to be.

A man must have much good in him
Whose friend a cat would be;

A cat can judge of character,
That is quit-e clear to me.

If man and cat can friendly be
As these upon the sea,

It’s sure that men can friendly be,
As sure as sure can be.

And nations, too, can friendly be
And never have a spat;—

Great statesmen take the hint they give—
The sailor and his cat.

W. S.

 

Cruelty to Animals in

MOTION PICTURES
Involves Maiming, Killing and Abuse
NOTSHOWN ON THE SCREEN

JOIN
The Jack London Club

FOR THE ABOLITION OF
PERFORMING ANIMAL TURNS

By sending your name to
OUR DUMB ANIMALS

180 Longwood Avenue, Boston

 

 

 

 

EICHUMBI VALLEY, TIBET

 

ragga. 5(LMLEM‘ I." -.. .47.; .zx‘r... LA“; .

 




 

 

June, 1931;

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Chicago’s Unusual Kindness Program

OTH humane and educational interests
united in presenting one of the best
programs yet attempted in Chicago
during Be Kind to Animals Week. Mrs.

Jennie R. Toomim, who represents the
American Humane Education Society of
Boston, had the whole-hearted co-operation
of school authorities and humane ofﬁcials,
who graciously paid ﬁne recognition to the
occasion in daily broadcasts from the lead-
ing radio stations.

. An essay contest in the schools was highly
successful. Sixty-seven cash prizes donated
by Mr. Geo. A. H. ScOtt of the Illinois Hu-

' mane Society, and twenty-ﬁve. honorable
mentions contributed by our American Hu-
mane Education Society, were awarded.

The list of speakers over the radio was
a notable one. It included among others
Dr. Preston Brown of the People’s Church
of Chicago; Mrs. Irene Castle McLaughlin
of “Orphans of the Storm;” President John
J. Roberts of the Anti-Cruelty Society; Hon.
Barratt O’Hara, distinguished lawyer and
former Lieut. Governor of Illinois, and Mr.
Peter A. Mortensen, Superintendent of the
Chicago Parental School.

While the press of Chicago gave most lib-
eral space to the activities of the Week we
are privileged to publish in this issue ex-
tracts from two of the addresses.

Mr. O’Hara’s Address

Mr. O’Hara said, in part:

We, owe- mlich, my friends, to our dumb
animals. We owe much to Mr. George T.
Angell, who in 1868 stepped out from the
beaten paths to say a word for those who
could not speak for themselves but served
us so faithfully and with no consideration
of compensation. The great heart and the
understanding intellect of Mr. Angell went
into the Massachusetts Society for the Pre-
vention of Cruelty to Animals and the
American Humane Education Society.
Splendidly has this Society gone on during
the years, for you and for me, for human-
kind as well as animal-kind, and to this
Society are we indebted for the inaugura-
tion and the continuance of a “Be Kind to
Animals Week.” Today is the beginning of
the twentieth anniversary of this week,
dedicated to understanding, to brotherhood
and to kindliness. I know of no better way
to uphold the hand of humanity’s President
in the White House, to advance the cause of
a new philosophy of business and of govern-
ment that is more in conformity with the
kindly sentiments of human hearts and of
souls, than by joining whole-heartedly 'in
the observance of this week, dedicated to
kindliness, not restricted, but expressed to
every form of life that must come from the
common source of all life. If in the New
Day we are to reach contentment, to pass
by untouched by the pretenses and to ﬁnd
in the simplicities the great thrill of human
lives lived to their fullest measure, we must
travel together in brotherhood the road of
kindliness. Be kind to a dog, be kind to a
cat, be kind to a horse, be kind to any ani-
mal that we call dumb, and who seeks only
to serve and thus to be kind to you, and you
have found the way to this path of content-
ment, this path of contentment that is paved
with deeds of kindliness to every form of
life provided by an all wise Providence. . . .

If we wish to serve in this most inter-

esting period of history, in this time of the
changing of a philosophy of individual
aggrandizement to a philosophy of universal
unselﬁshness, we can serve, each of us in
our humble place, by observing this “Be
Kind to Animals Week” in spirit and in
letter.

Mr. Mortensen’s Address

Mr. Mortensen’s subject was, “Stressing
Kindness as a Crime Deterrent.” He said:

Because of long years devoted to dealing
with wayward children, I shall use the
term “Delinquency” instead of “Crime.”
We no longer emphasize the speciﬁc act, in
violation of Law, but study the general atti—
tude of a child, and designate a failure to
adjust to normal conditions as “De-
linquency.”

If all homes were good homes, and all
communities were good neighborhoods; if
all fathers and mothers were trained in the
duties and responsibilities of parent-hood;
if no little ones came into homes of vice,
ﬁlth and crime; if there were no broken
homes, no inﬁdelity, no nagging, and no
economic stress and strain, there would be
less delinquency.

Even in good homes, where both parents
co-operate, it is not easy to make all chil-
dren polite, obedient and kind. We have
come up from a lower standard of civiliza—
tion, and there is still the tendency to hark
back to the primitive. There is in some, the
instinct of the savage,——the tendency to ﬁght
and quarrel,—to be cruel and unkind.

Training and education, ethics and re-
ligion, tend to enable little citizens to live
together harmoniously, and efﬁciently,—to
be happy, considerate and kind. The great
mass of citizens live together in harmony,
help each other, enjoy each other’s society,
and tend to make progress. They present
no behavior problems, and cause parents,
teachers and the community no concern.

On the other hand, the child who is stub-
born, disobedient, dishonest, cruel, unsocial
and self-centered, is not only his own enemy,
but is in conﬂict with home, school and the
community. We seek to help him adjust in
his group, by linking him to the interests
of his companions and to his daily contacts.
We build him up physically, mentally and
morally, by every known device. But, especi-
ally we look to his emotions, that im-
pelling force, that determines most of his
actions.

Too often we conclude that education is
merely a training of the intellect. You can
put that on a report card. It is less easy
to measure achievement
in the development of
the emotions—in the
growth of character.

Deep, hidden in the
heart of the child may
still lie the springs of
selﬁshness, cruelty and
inhumanity. A real edu-
cation develops justice,
compassion and char-
acter.

Teach kindness and an
interest in the Life of
the air, the earth and
the sea. For the sake of
the animals? Yes, but
more for the sake of the

 

Page 91

child. The song of a bird, the chirp of a

cricket, the peep of a downy chick, the

antics of the lowly worm and the bark of a

playmate dog, arouse an emotion in the child

that makes for character. A child trained

to treat animals fairly, kindly and sympa-

thetically, will grow to treat his fellows

generously and with courtesy.

“Life with all ”lit yields of joy or woe,

And hope and fear,

Is just our chance 0’ the prize of learning
love,

How love might be, hath been indeed, and
28.”

“Kurt” of Lindenwood

T is not often that a college president

goes out of his way to pay marked tribute
to- a dog, even to his own dog. There are
exceptions. EX—president Lowell of Har-
vard was one—his touching comments on the
late “Phantom” were printed in these col-
umns some months ago. Now comes a
pathetic letter from President John L.
Roemer of Lindenwood College, St. Charles,
M0,, which reads in part:

“On April 15 our beloved police dog
“Kurt” passed away, dying in the ofﬁce of
his master, with his big head in my hands.

“A touching incident in his quietly pass-
ing out was the Vesper Choir in their reces-
sional, singing before the ofﬁce door where
Kurt lay dying, ‘He Leadeth Me.’

“Numbers of children in St. Louis and
St. Charles would be pleased to have Our
Dumb Animals make mention of the noble
fellow whom they knew either from their
text-book or in person. The dog’s obituary
appeared in all St. Louis and St. Charles
papers.

“The paper Kurt loved to carry from my
ofﬁce to Mrs. Roemer was Our Dumb Ani—
mals, and the ofﬁce force always spoke of
it as Kurt’s paper.”

The text-book referred to is “Doorway
to English,” in which Kurt is described as
the mascot of the girls of Lindenwood Col—
lege. The dog comes of a high pedigree and
came to the college in 1921, two months
after his birth. His full name is “Kurt von
Lindenholz,” meaning Kurt of Lindenwood,
a most appropriate one considering the
great affection in which he was held during
the thirteen years of his life at the college.
Yet he was distinctly a “one man dog,”
always accompanying Dr. Roemer and re-
fusing to respond to the advances of the
girls. One of his duties was to go with the
night watchman on his patrol. Kurt will be
sadly missed by all connected with Linden—
wood. Ou’r Dumb Animals joins in mourn-
ing the passing of a noble animal.

 

 

x ' -

“KURT VON LINDENHOLZ”




 

 

Aug. 1931;
The Universal Brotherhood

NIXON WATERMAN

They who mistreat poor, helpless brutes
Would so treat us, without a doubt
Had we, as have God’s wordless mutes,
No voice by which they’d be found out.
It seems it would be only fair
Could we, betimes, dumb beasts imbue-
With speech that they, in court, might swear
To wicked deeds that humans do.

But since they lack the gift of speech
Whereby to tell the wrongs they feel
We must do all within our reach
To give to them an even deal.
And cowards who refuse to mend
The ways their souls must know are
wrong
Need all be told we will defend
The voiceless weak against the strong.

More “Cheating” in Jungle
Films

HE invention of sound-ﬁlm adds an-

other vicious element in the presenta-
tion of motion pictures wherein animals are
employed. The “jungle ﬁlm,” though pro-
cured by artiﬁcial means, was evolved as a
most alluring form of public entertainment,
an attraction so irresistible as to boost box-
ofﬁce receipts many fold. To the sights and
scenes of beasts ﬁghting “to the death,” the
resourceful producer now has added the
sounds of their mortal combats.

How long will the devotees of the ﬁlm be
gulled by this kind of false and unnatural
representation? Have we become utterly in-
different to the debasing character of such
forms of deception and mis-representation?
Where in this country will any ofﬁcers of
the law or any self-respecting community of
citizens permit. the exhibition of living wild
animals goaded to ﬁght one another before
paying audiences? Are we approaching
such a period as when the ﬁghts of wild
beasts led to gladiatorial combats, and the
public conscience enjoyed slaughter as a
form of entertainment?

Fascist Medal for Dog

A dispatch from Florence, Italy, tells of
the decoration of “Stellino,” a dog, by the
Fascist animal pro-
tective society.

Stellino was found
holding solitary vigil
over the body of a
workman master who
fell into a cave near
the city. The man had
been dead for some
days, the dog nearly
starved.

A special silver
medal was struck for
Stellino’s collar. ‘The
Fascist emblem is on
one side. On the other:

“He could not have
given more.”

“All done by kind-
ness” is still the same
old gag of the animal
trainer.

UNLOADING A TEAK-LOG, BURMA

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Page 117

India’sFamous Trained Elephants
EARLE W. GAGE

§§ VISITORS to India are surprised to
see trained elephants doing the heavy
jobs that are usually done by tractors
and other machinery. They are amazed to
watch elephants lift heavy logs with their
tusks, draw large loads of lumber on little
trucks, and work in herds about the Ran-
goon sawmills.

Fewer people travel back into the Burma
jungles and watch the elephant logging
crews as they get out the teakwood that is
sent to all parts of the world. This is one of
the most valuable of woods. It is as pliable
as cane, nearly as hard as iron, and does
not decay. The trees are felled like our
own, by sawing them off, the limbs trimmed
off the trunk, and logs cut. Then it is that
the elephant herd starts working. They
either haul the logs to the bank of a river
or to a railway to be delivered to the saw-
mill.

At the Rangoon sawmills a herd of one
hundred elephants work. All are bossed by
old “Joe,” an elephant nearly seventy-ﬁve
years old, now famous all over the world as
the trainer of more elephants than any man
or beast. While Joe does not actually work,
he is boss of the yard, and performs his
tasks with a clock-like precision which few
men could copy. Joe sees to. it that the ele-
phants do their work promptly, the right
way, from the time the whistle blows until
it again announces the noon hour or quit-
ting time in the late afternoon.

Old Joe slips along the lines of elephants,
to boss the setting out for the morning’s
work, and in less than three minutes the
hundred or more elephants are on their way
to the inlet, where they work in two lines.
One line walks to the inlet, the other from,
keeping up a continuous movement just like
an endless belt.

Each elephant picks up in his trunk a
selected log and goes along the log pile, as
his mahout (driver) guides him to the right
pile, and directs him when it is time to drop
the log. Stepping over to the end of the
log pile, the elephant lowers his head, gazes
along the log, and if it is out of line,
punches it with his tusks until it is straight.
All day long, week after week, the elephant
herd keep on piling logs, according to size

 

and grade, without any human aid, except
that of the mahout, whose task it is to keep
the animals the correct distance apart.

Slipping about in the mud of the wet sea-
son, hauling logs in the very dry season of
deep dust, the elephants work eight hours
a day, with no vacations, spending a life-
time, whether forty, ﬁfty or a hundred
years, handling logs.

Logs litter the yard, while hundreds more
are ﬂoating in the river, nearby. These logs
are massive, from sixteen to twenty inches
square and thirty-ﬁve feet long. Stepping
over these, to select just the size and length
log he is handling, the elephant lumbers
away all day long, slowly but surely per-
forming his work.

Our sawmill yards are very noisy places,
with the hum and creak of machinery. But
the yard in Rangoon seems very quiet; only
the hum of the large saws breaks the silence.
For the elephants toil on and on, the only
sound being the voice of the mahout who
sits upon the animal’s back and who appears
like a little boy perched aloft, but Whose
commands are faithfully obeyed by the
animals.

Wading into the muddy waters of the
river, the elephants lift the large logs out
of the water with their tusks and drag them
into the large open shed beside the sawmill.
They walk on the rolling, uncertain logs as
easily as if it were a paved road, and man-
age their towers of legs and broad pads of
feet with perfect sureness.

In handling the logs, elephants work
alone, but when the logs have been sawed
into lumber, two elephants work together to
pile it up. The two elephants, one stand-
ing on each end of the squares of wood,.llft
them and lay them down in perfect piles.
They use their tusks, which have been
shortened and curved with saw and ﬁle, to
raise the timbers, and their trunks to push
them into place.

When the whistle blows for dinner, the
elephants instantly leave whatever they are
doing, no matter where they are, and walk
off to the feeding yard. If an elephant is 1n
the river, lifting a log, he drops it and turns
toward his dinner. .

Nearly every elephant has worked 1n the
log and lumber yard twenty or more years,
some of them, like old Joe, much longer.
He has been here nearly seventy years.

Some of the elphants have been tralned
to perform a trick which surprises v1s1tors.
As the party advances toward an elephant,
he will throw his trunk forward in an
alarming manner, which causes the stranger
to run; but the elephant follows and soon
overtakes the person. He will not stop until
coins are cast upon the ground. These he
picks up, no matter whether they are be-
tween logs or in the mud, and calmly hands
them to his mahout. Then he turns and
walks away as if nothing had happened.
But not until he has searched out and found

the very last coin.

Our readers are urged to clip from “Our
Dumb Animals” various articles and re-
quest their local editors to republish.
Copies so mutilated will be made good by

us upon application.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

—~—-—~r—

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 161;

gunners are highly organized.

As an offset to the ofﬁcial opposition of
a certain organization supposed to repre-
sent farm sentiment throughout the coun-
try, it can be stated that many Massachu-
setts farmers warmly endorse the Humane
Trapping Law. These include some of the
leading poultry raisers and orchardists.

For the bulk of the fur catch taken here,
there are humane traps even more efﬁcient
than the steel-jawed trap which the Hu-
mane Trapping Law placed under the ban.

Friends and supporters of the humane
cause should bear in mind, when they go
to the polls on November 6, that they are
not voting directly to sustain the original
law, but to reject the new law — the so-
called “local option trapping law” — and
that to carry out their purpose they should
vote NO. If the NO vote prevails, the
Humane Trapping Law remains in full
force and effect.

Zoo Bison
LEON J. GAYLOR

How servilely you bow your regal head,

Like some dejected, abdicated king.

You stand within your steel-restricted

ring——

Lone representative of hosts now dead.

Great withers humped and mighty legs
widespread;

Within that massive head do memories cling

Of herds returning northward with the
spring,

Of wallows by some primal river’s bed?

Do you remember how the red man’s throng

Charged down upon your herds in whooping
chase?

Do you remember how the sun could drench

The plains with light, recall the free wind’s

song?

Would you have rather died with your dead
race

Than live within this hateful prison’s
stench?

A Useful Bird of Mystery

WILLIS MEHANNA

Walking along down in a dark, woody
hollow on my place, grown up with weeds,
briers and bushes, I saw a grayish, long-
Winged bird ﬂy up from a small, open space
and sail away in a sort of “lighter than
air” fashion. On the bare ground in the open
space were two eggs, with light brown
spots and about the size of turtle-dove eggs.

This Whippoorwill ﬂies swiftly with but
little effort. He is useful for he catches
insects, large and small, and he gets them
on the wing. He has only two notes. From
one he gets his name and the other is a sort
of deﬁant croak that you will hear when
he is doing high ﬂying.

Usually he is not sociable to man, but of
quiet summer evenings he will sometimes
come up in the yard, light on a tree and sing
his Whippoorwill song as a serenade. He is
not responsive to man’s advances and is a
wild bird that will stay wild. He goes south
in winter, returning rather late in spring.

Join the Jack London Club and help star:

the cruelty of trained animal acts.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

The Menace of Pole-traps
SHELBY E. SOUTHARD

SAW a pole-trap for the ﬁrst time in
New Mexico as I drove along a wind-
ing road between gralin ﬁelds. Ground
squirrels and rabbits scampe-red in front
of the car. Then I saw the trap. In it

a sparrow-hawk was hanging head down-
ward, one leg crushed by the steel jaws of
the trap.

He had been there for many

 

SPARROW-HAWK STILL ALIVE

hours, helpless, slowly dying. I released
him and then I amputated his leg and
bandaged it. While he sat on a near-by
pole and plucked feebly at the bandage,
I explored further along the fence.

Almost at once I came on the feathered
bodies of two eagles and several Swainson’s
hawks. The owner of the traps had left
them to hang on the fence for passers-by
to see his success. The last victim, and

 

THIS OWL DIED FROM TORTURE

in many ways, the most pitiable, was a
long-eared owl. Had I found him sooner
I could have saved him, but he was too far
gone. After releasing him his eyes ﬂick-
ered a few times and closed forever.

. The farmers trap these birds under the
impression that they are warring on an
enemy. I examined the stomachs of the
blrds I found in these traps. They con-
tained the vestiges of prairie dogs, a rab-
bit, a small snake, ground squirrels, and

Nov. 1934

many, many kangaroo rats. All these ro-
dents are real economic enemies of the
farmer. The birds he kills on his fence-
posts in barbarous traps where they die
after tortured days of ﬂuttering helplessly
are his friends. The whole West complains
of the depredations of the little rodents
these birds help to keep in check. The
charges. against the birds are ungrounded,
nebulous, and contrary to the evidence of
every survey ever made. These pole-traps
are forthright tokens of man’s callous stu-
pidity, yet no law hinders him.

Gun vs. Pet
L. E. E'UBANKS

ARL and Jack, the same age, were

cousins. For the ﬁrst ﬁve years of
their lives they lived in the same household,
and seemed to be much alike. Then Carl’s
parents moved, and the boy became the
“little pal” of an uncle whose hobby was
guns, marksmanship and hunting.

At a very early age Carl received from
this uncle a .22 riﬂe—a toy, the man called
it. Carl mastered the weapon in a very
short time, often went hunting, and rapidly
acquired the characteristics of most per—
sons who hunt and kill. He» took up bigger
arms——and with great “success.”

At the age of ﬁfteen the cousins met
again, and the contrast, according to the
story of Jack’s father, was remarkable in-
deed. Jack’s original love for pets had not
abated, and when Carl saw him playing
with a neighbor’s cat he waxed sarcastic:
“Still playing with cats! Going to be a
baby all your life?”

“I am if kindness to animals makes one a
baby,” answered Jack.

That was four years ago, and the differ-
ence in character, shown by that verbal ex-
change, has increased. Jack is a young man
of sterling qualities, dependability and high
citizenship. He is attending university.
Carl passed up his chance at education,
spending a large part of his time trapping
in Alaska with his. uncle. He has been in
“gun play” trouble twice, is known as a
cruel and dangerous fellow, and is now
working on a ranch in Idaho. Which is
better for a maturing boy, to pet animals
or to hunt them with a gun?

I’ve always been interested in the rela-
tionship of crime to the childhood of the
criminals. A survey of one of the country’s
largest prisons revealed the fact that less
than one per cent of the inmates had a dog
or any other pet to play with as a child.
It seems well established that pets are to
children what children are to parents—
objects of that care and kindness so essen-
tial to the development of man at his best.
Begun early, companionship with a pet ani-
mal will go a long way toward eradicating
traits of selﬁshness and cruelty which some
youngsters seem to possess naturally.

One man said to me, “Pets do my child
no good, he abuses them.” My answer is
that pets have served a ﬁne purpose in dis-
closing to this parent just what a problem
he has in that child. I’d take the pet away
from such a youngster temporarily, while
I taught him certain important truths; but
later I’d bring back the animal, and perse-
vere until the child got the idea. Any par-
ent whose child cannot be taught kindness
to a pet had better prepare for trouble in
coming years.

 

-.-—.1-——‘-

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 186

PEACE ON EARTH,

AND MERCY 'ro
EVERY LIVING
CREATURE.

 

Founded by Geo. T. Angell Incorporated 1889

For rates of membership in both of our Societies
see back cover. Checks should be made payable
to Treasurer.

Ofﬁcers of the American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY. & STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds

JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First.

of Boston Corporation.

CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President, United Shoe ’

Machinery Corporation.

PHILIP STOCKTON, President, First National Bank of
Boston

Foreign Corresponding Representatives

George B. Duff .................... Australia
Luis Pareja Cornejo ........ y ....... Ecuador
Charles A. Williams ............... France
Leonard T. Hawksley .............. Italy

Mrs. Mary P. E. Nitobe ............

Japan
Mrs. Marie C. E. Houghton ........ Madeira
Dr. A. T. Ishkanian ............... Mexico
Luther Parker .................... Philippine Islands
Joaquin Julia ..................... Spain
Mrs. Alice W. Manning ............ Turkey

Humane Press Bureau
Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke, Secretary
180 Longwood Ave., Boston
Field Workers of the Society
Mrs. Alice L. Park, Palo Alto, California
Mrs. Rachel C. Hogue, San Diego, California
Mrs. Jennie R. Nichols, Tacoma, Washington
James D. Burton, Harriman, Tennessee
Mrs. Katherine Weathersbee, Atlanta, Georgia
Rev. F. Rivers Barnwell, Fort Worth, Texas
Miss Blanche Finley, Richmond, Virginia
Rev. John W. Lemon, Ark, Virginia
Miss Lucia F. Gilbert, Boston, Massachusetts
Mrs. Jennie R. Toomim, Chicago, Ill.
Seymour Carroll, Columbia, S. .
Rev. R. E. Griffith, De Land, Florida
Field Representative
Wm. F. H. Wentzel, M.S., Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
Field Lecturer in Massachusetts
Ella A. Maryott

Societies’ Annuity Bonds

MANY men and women, lovers of ani-
mals, are getting both happiness and
material comfort from our two Societies’
Annuity Bonds. These bonds are absolutely
safe and yield a return according to one’s
age. They make their appeal ordinarily to
people over 40 years of age. Send the
coupon for a free folder which gives full
details. Fill in the coupon and mail it now.

The Massachusetts S. P. C. A. (or)
The American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Ave., Boston, Mass.

Without obligation to me, please send

me your folder which tells all about your
Annuity Bonds.

ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo
ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Honor for a Humane Worker

GAIN this year, Mrs. Wilson Groshans,

of Aurora, Illinois, a widely known
worker in the ﬁeld of animal welfare, was
asked to sing at the Century of Progress
Fair at Chicago. For twenty-ﬁve years she
has served as Humane Ofﬁcer for her section
of the State without compensation. Not
only the animals but the aged and children
as well have found in her a helpful friend.
Mrs. Groshans sang in the English, Ger-
man and the Holland languages Old Hun-
dred. She sang also as a school girl at the
World’s Fair in Chicago in 1893.

John L. Shortall

T is with genuine regret that we record
the death of John L. Shortall who died
at his home, 339 Barry Avenue, Chicago, on
Sunday, September 9, 1934, after a long ill-
ness. He was in his seventieth year. His
father, John G. Shortall, was president of
the Illinois Humane Society from May, 187 7,
torMay, 1906, and of the American Humane
Association from 1893 to 1898, and contrib-
uted very greatly to the humane cause dur-
ing that time. i

It was on the invitation of John G. Short-
all in 1877, then president of the Illinois
Humane Society, that various delegates met
at Cleveland, Ohio, October 9, 1877, “to con-
sider the question of maltreatment of ani-
mals in transit between the East and West.”
This meeting resulted in the organization
of the International Humane Society, the
name of which in the following year was
changed to the American Humane Associa-
tion.

Mr. John L. Shortall succeeded his father
as president of The Illinois Humane Society
in May, 1906, and continued to act as
president until 1910, at which time he re-
tired for one year. He acted again as pres-
ident of the Society from 1911 to 1918. Mr.
Shortall was a very eager and active hu-
manitarian, vitally interested in the work
and welfare of the Society. During the
time that his father was president of the
Society he was very active and
interested and frequently inves-
tigated cases of cruelty, and
represented the Society in the
Courts, prosecuting cases of
cruelty to both children and ani-
mals. He was very generous in
his support of the Society and
contributed ﬁnancially at differ-
ent times when the Society was
in need and to enable it to carry
on its work. He was interested
in the welfare not only of the
Society but of all those who
were doing the work of the So-
ciety. He had a very kindly,
lovable and friendly disposition;
was a staunch and true friend;
a noble and admirable character.
He leaves an imperishable im-
press for good on the Society
and its work.

And when you are in the
house alone, what hours of soli-
tude slip easily by, just because
there is a happy dog to give you
company. B. MARTIN

 

Dec. 1934

The Race for More Guns and
Battleships

HE leading nations of the world ignore

the lessons taught by the Great War.
Over and over we were told by the world’s so-
called statesmen that if the war had taught
us anything it was that great armies and
navies were no assurance of peace, but were
bound to lead to war. Now read the follow-
ing from the Foreign Policy Association’s
report:

France is spending for naval, mili-
tary and air budgets 25.8 per cent more
than in 1913, Italy 26.3 per cent more,
Great Britain 48.8 per cent more, the
United States 190.9 per cent more, and
Japan 388 per cent more.

One can but think of Shakespeare’s words,
“What fools these mortals be.”

The University of Minnesota, we are glad
to learn, has abolished compulsory military
training. If we had our way every college,
university and school in the land would
train for peace and not for war.

American Fondouk in Fez,

Morocco
Report for September,.1934———30 Days
Daily average 'rlarge'animals 37
Forage for same $68.46
Daily average dogs 12
Forage for same 10.49
Large animals humanely put to sleep 20 . 20.44
Transportation 13.81
Wages, grooms, etc. 94.31
Assistant’s salary 91.36
Veterinary’s salary 26.80
Motor allowance 16.76

Sundries 72.93

$415.36
Entries: 11 horses, 15 mules, 52 dOnkeys.
Exits: 7 horses, 6 mules, 26 donkeys.

Monthly Report of Supt.’s Assistant, and Inspector,
on 70 Native Fondouks, and the two markets for
animals held twice weekly, and distances walked
throughout the Souks and the Medina, the Mellah,
the Ville Nouvelle, where are the Police Headquarters,
and the Batha Division.

Kilometers traveled, 221; cases investigated, 532;
animals seen, 14,664; animals treated, 4,441; animals
transferred, 49.

The municipal authorities have taken a leaf out of
our book and drinking fountains are springing up all
over the city.

 

 

FEZ FONDOUK, WITH NEW ADDITION AT RIGHT




 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 61;
What I Know About Per-

forming Animals
(Continued from page 52)

their ﬁne coats, sent on to stand like a
statue while some fat fool sat on their backs
and impersonated “Diana” or “Juno.” It’s
the whole principle that is wrong. It’s not
only the cruelty, it’s the horrible mental
effect.

I once saw an animal trainer “teaching”
a baby elephant to do tricks. Think Of it—
the elephant had about a hundred times as
much mentality as the teacher. I managed
to pull open the tent ﬂap, and watched. I
didn’t watch long, because I am quick-
tempered, and when I noticed a coke stove,
and two long irons heating in it, my blood
just boiled over, and I went for the man. I
carried a good English ash plant, and he
knew what it felt like. For three minutes
I deﬁnitely enjoyed myself! SO, I hope, did
the elephant.

But there’s the tragedy of it all! Indi-
vidual effort goes for nothing. It’s a con-
centrated effort that counts. It’s the mass—
ing together of hundreds and hundreds Of
people who will get on their feet and push
out of a theater or music-hall the moment an
animal comes on the stage. (Oh, I don’t
mean when Mrs. Patrick Campbell carries
on one of her little fellows, whom she adores,
in a straight play!) And here’s a hint for
you. When you do go out, go to the man-
agement and make your protest and let it
be known why you have left your seats, and
don’t hesitate to let people about you know
why you’re going out. NO good slinking out
so that no one knows why you go.

And here’s another thing! We have a
well-known dog’s home, called the Batter-
sea Dog’s Home, and if you go there to buy
a dog you must ﬁrst sign a paper stating
that the animal will not be trained to per-
form in public! That means something
doesn’t it? That is a pointer as to how
much the Dog’s Home authorities believe
the stories Of “all done by kindness.” Lies
and lies and lies! That is the reply to the
old story, “All done by kindness.” I have
seen hundreds Of animal acts—I had to, I
was a performer myself—and in all my life
have only seen two trainers who knew what
kindness meant. Both the men are dead,
and I am prepared to believe that now there
are no “all done by kindness” acts left.

There is no creature no matter how small
or contemptible, that does not show God’s
inﬁnite goodness and mercy.

THOMAS A KEMPIS

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Trapped

ALFRED I. TOOKE

ETE MERRITT tumbled the coins out

Of his toy bank and counted them.
At last there was enough to buy a dozen
traps from the mail-order house. He turned
to the page in the catalog:

Boys! Make Money
Trapping Animals

And there were the traps the mail-order
house had for sale. Before night, Pete’s
order was in the mails. Four days later
the traps arrived. Eagerly Pete tore the
wrappings Off. “Lightning Action! Power-
ful Jaws!” the catalog said.

“Ouch!” With a yell, Pete tried to shake
off the trap that snapped upon his hand
as he tried it. Then he pried the jaws open
and drew out a bruised and badly scratched
hand and went to get it bound up.

“They’re dandies!” he told his friend, Old
John Hubbard. “I thought my hand was
broken when they snapped on it.”

“I guess they’re liable to hurt the little
animals too,” said John, “and they can’t
get loose so easily.”

“I’ll clear the traps every morning, John,
so they won’t suffer—I mean they won’t be
in the traps long.”

“Have the animals been annoying you?”

“NO.,’

“Don’t need ’em for food, do you?”

“No. Most Of them are not ﬁt for food
anyway.”

“Catchin’ ’em for what you call sport?”

“NO. There’s no sport to just taking them
out Of the traps.”

“Doin’ it for the money you ﬁgure on
gettin’ for their hides, eh?”

(‘Yes.’, -

“You’re not ﬁgurin’ on shootin’ me some
day so you can take my clothes and sell
’em to a second-hand dealer, are you?”

Pete stared. “You’re not serious, are
you, John?”

“Well, if you’d steal the hide off an ani-
mal that never harmed you—”

“That’s different, John.”

“It’s accordin’ to how a fellow thinks.
The animals are our friends. They all have
their uses in Nature. Kill ’em Off, and we’d
be eaten up with grubs and insects in no
time. I wouldn’t murder a friend for the
few pennies I could get out Of it.”

“It’s not murder!” Pete protested angrily.
“It—it’s business.”

“I guess that’s the way a fellow called
Judas must’ve ﬁgured when he sold his
Friend for thirty pieces of silver. If I had
them traps, I’d dump ’em in the lake afore
I’d—What? Goin’ already?”

 

 

TO OUR FRIENDS

In making your will, kindly bear in mind that the corporate title of our Society is “The
Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals”: that it is the second
incorporated (March, 1868) Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals in the country,
and that it has no connection with any other similar Society.

Any bequest especially intended for the beneﬁt of the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital
should, nevertheless, be made to The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals “for the use of the Hospital,” as the Hospital is not incorporated but is the
property of that Society and is conducted by it.

FORM OF BEQUEST

I give to The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (or
to The American Humane Education Society), the sum of ..........................
dollars (or, if other property, describe the property).

 

 

Apr. 1931;

“Yes!” Pete snorted, slamming the door
after him.

He was angry. So angry that picking his
way up the mountain to start his trap line,
he forgot to be careful. His foot slipped
on a mossy log.

“Crash!” Down ‘he went, grabbing an-
other log to stop his fall, but it jerked loose
and swung over knocking him backwards
and pinning him there. Panic stricken, he
struggled furiously until, panting and
scared, he realized he was trapped.

“I must keep calm!” he told himself. “My
ankle is caught, and this log pins me down.
Maybe I can cut through it with my knife.”
But in half an hour he had cut only a small
nick in the hard 10g, and his hand was
blistered and bleeding.

“I’ll starve to death before I get free this
way,” he mutttered. “Gee, I’m thirsty. I
wish my ankle would stop hurting. Say, it’s
getting awful dark, and nobody knows I’m
here.” Desperately Pete kept cutting, and
then, in the dark, his knife suddenly slipped
and was gone.

There were eery noises around him now.
Something crept along the log that held
him. He shouted, and it crashed away
through the bushes. And then he heard
something big crashing towards him.

“A bear?” he wondered. “A wolf?”

“Peeeee-ter !”

Pete gave a huge sigh of relief.

“Yee-hoooooo! Up here, John!” he called.
“YOO-hooooo !”

And presently there was John Hubbard
with a lantern.

“When your folks telephoned you were
lost, I ﬁgured you’d be up here,” John said,
as he freed Pete. “Sprained ankle, eh? How
does it feel to be trapped—alive?”

“Awful!” Pete groaned. “Ouch! I can’t
stand!”

“Supposin’ I’d waited till mornin’?” John
sald. “Up on my back you go. I’ll have to
carry you home. How about all these
traps?”

“I’ll come for them when my ankle’s
better, John,” Pete said. “I—I’ll dump them
in the lake. Just so nobody else can use
them either.”

We and the beasts are kin. Man has
nothing that the animals have not at least
a vestige Of ; the animals have nothing that
man does not in some degree share.

ERNEST THOMPSON SETON

 

Our Dumb Animals

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston Ofﬁce; 180 Longwood Av-
enue.

Address all communications to Boston.

TERMS

One dollar per year. Posta e free to an art of
the World. g y p

Humane. Societies and Agents are invited to cor-
respond wrth us for terms on large orders.

- All dollar subscriptions sent direct to the ofﬁce en-
title the sender to membership in either of our two
Socleties.

RATES OF MEMBERSHIP IN

THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
OR THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.

Active Life $100 00 Active Annual $10 00
Associate Life 50 00 Associate Annual 5 00
Sustaining 20 00 Annual 1 00
Children’s $0.75

Checks and other payments may be sent to ALBERT
A. POLLARD, Treasurer, 180 Longwood Avenue,
Boston.

Manuscripts should be addressed to the Editor,
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 188

it is a migration, and made up of insects,
at that.

Ocean ﬁsh place many thousands of
miles between their winter and southern
homes. There is a possibility that some
of their journeys are even longer than
those recorded for birds, but at best the
ﬁsh of the sea are mysterious. Little is
known of their habits. The tuna ﬁsher-
men of southern California follow their
prey clear to the Equator during the win-
ter, and then as spring rolls along they fol-
low them back to California waters.

Reptile migrations are in most cases just
a mountain-to-valley affair. There are ex-
ceptions, however. The sea turtles, for in-
stance, often place many thousands of
miles between the spot where they crawl
up one the sandy beaches to lay their eggs,
and the locality where they bask in tropi-
cal winter sunshine.

Strangely, some of our mammals take
long journeys. The fur seals of the Pribi-
lof Islands in the north Paciﬁc journey sev-
eral thousand miles southward to spend
the winter months. They too have that
homing sense which birds possess. Other-
wise, how could they, year after year, un-
failingly return to their tiny island homes
which are mere dots in a wide ocean?

Many bats raise their young in the
north, and dine on a bountiful supply of
summer insects. When winter approaches,
however, and kills off their food, they, like
the birds, take to wing and journey to
tropical lands. The belief that they often
cover great distances, non-stop, so to
Speak, has been borne out by the occasion-
al capture of them on ocean liners.

One of the strangest of all mammalian
journeys is that periodic mad trip made by
northern lemmings. Every seven or eight
years these mouselike mammals overrun a
certain locality. When their population
becomes so great that the region cannot
supply their needs, they get an insane de-
sire to travel. They ford rivers in their
progress. Thousands are killed by their
natural enemies as they march bravely on.
Eventually they reach the ocean or large
lakes and plunge gallantly in — to disap-
pear forever! This type of migration is
surely overly mysterious. Probably the
most logical explanation is that voiced by
Swedish naturalists, which declares that
the tiny mammals on reaching a certain
population, become subject to a disease
which makes them insane. A few of course
don’t get this disease, and they hold back
while the multitudes go off to their death.
In seven years of time the offspring of the
survivors become again over-numerous, the
disease strikes again, and once more there
occurs a migration — of death.

Capone, Dillinger on the highway are no
more heartless and bloodthirsty than the
man who builds up armaments in another
nation for the purpose of sending his own
people to the front that they may furnish
the means by which to murder them. More
than anything else that contributed to the
great war was the sordid and vicious propa-
ganda which was constantly carried on by
munition manufacturers. Killing is the
business of armament manufacturers, gov-
ernments are their customers.

SENATOR WM. E. BORAH

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Nesting-places for Birds
LELIA MUNSELL

ESTING-PLACES are as important in

protecting the birds as safety from
enemies, food and drink. Thoughtful people
are wondering if the destruction of osage
orange hedges in the Middle West is not a
blow at the birds. These hedges provided
homes for great numbers of birds in a coun-
try where there were none too many trees
and it was undoubtedly because of this that
the corn belt was remarkably free from
insect pests. Small armies of quail found
refuge in the hedges. Where will they go
now?

The matter of nesting-places has received
occasional attention in different parts of the
country. A goodly number of farmers have
established small bird refuges on their
farms, in co-operation with State Game
Commissions, Audubon societies, bird clubs,
state schools, and local organizations. They
ﬁgured that the protection to their crops
offset the land planted to trees and shrubs.
Highway planting, while not designed for
bird protection, has served that purpose.
Some railroads have planted their right of
way and thus provided nesting homes.
Parks and cemeteries are safety zones for
birds. Bird houses do their bit but of course
it is a small bit, though surveys have shown
that ﬁfty-ﬁve varieties of birds will nest
in man-made houses.

There are two motives in protecting our
birds—the esthetic and humane motive, and
the monetary motive. The ﬁrst rests some-
what with the individual. The monetary
value is large.

There is something uncanny in the way
birds congregate where they are needed to
ﬁght injurious insects or rodents but there
are some classic instances to prove that they
do.

During the locust invasion of the Rocky
Mountain region in 1865-1867 birds came
from every quarter, the lordly eagle and
the tiny humming-bird. Field mice invaded
the Humboldt River region in Nevada in
1907-1908. The news got out and the bird
armies assembled. They gobbled up 900,000
mice a month and the plague was stayed.
The alfalfa weevil attacked the, Great Salt

Dec. 1934

Lake territory and forty-ﬁve species of
birds came gallantly to the rescue. The
stomach of one Brewer blackbir'd contained
442 of the insects, even the English sparrow
earned a reward of merit. It was estimated
that the young sparrows, during the con-
tinuation of the plague, were fed 500,000
weevils in the nest, beside-s what the adults
ate. On a ZOO-acre wheat farm in North
Carolina small migratory birds ate as many
as 3,000 aphides daily.

Suppose there are no nesting-places for
these bird armies? What will become of
them? It will take sense as well as senti-
ment to save them. Every tree and every
shrub planted and protected will help to
provide nesting-places.

Animals and Christmas
NORMAN C. SCHLICHTER

HRISTMAS TIME can be used easily
and naturally to quicken a truer love
for animals in children.

One good plan is to tell children of the
delightful custom in Holland of teaching
the children that their good Saint Nicholas
will come riding on a handsome big white
horse. How natural, then, that the children
should clean their wooden shoes very care-
fully, and then ﬁll them with wheat and
oats on Christmas eve. Imagine their de-
light on waking to ﬁnd that their shoes
have been ﬁlled with toys and candy in re-
turn for their kind thought for the jolly
Saint’s horse.

Then, the story of how all children in

far-away Norway prepare a special dinner
for their pets, and how they enjoy seeing

their big brothers and sisters, a few days

before Christmas put up a pole near their
houses. On this pole on Christmas eve a
sheaf of wheat, saved specially from the
harvest, is fastened for the birds’ Christmas
feast. These stories, and other similar ones,
will lead children to suggest and make their
own plans for special Christmas kindness
to their own pets.

Co-operation by parents in such plans will
help to stimulate lasting interest in animal
kindness. To stress such kindness as in
harmony with the true Christmas spirit will
also make a lasting impression.

 

GLAUCOUS GULLS FOLLOWING THE HARROW FOR WORMS




 

AUGUST |934 PRICE IO CENTS

@ur Qumﬁ
als

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ELEPHANTS MOVING TEAK-LOGS, BURMA (See page 117)

 

 

 

 

 

 

THE MASSACHUSETTS SOCIETY FOR THE

* PREVENTION OF RUELTY TO ANIMALS
AND THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY

\

 

 

 




 

June, 1931;
Birds

EDWIN CARLILE LITSEY

What would we do without the birds
That come on wings of song?

A lovely band of many hues
Like ﬂowers blown along.

Yellow or red or blue or brown,
0r indigo or gray;

For some are clad in Quaker garb
Among the vast array.

They take possession of each tree,
And bush and vine and shrub;

And then begin to rid the earth
0f ant and worm and grub.

Without their eﬂorts humankind
Would have a barren earth.

No leaves, no grass, no growing thing,
No joyous springtime birth.

The music which they oﬂer us
Is sweetest ever heard.

And for my life I cannot see
How man can kill a bird.

The Pewee

LUCILE BURCH WORDEN

. HE greatest thrill nature can hold for

us is, perhaps, that elusive unfathom-

able promise of something in a bird call.

First impulse was to say the thrush’s call

but, after searching meditation, the silvery

notes of the thrush run only a close second
with the voice of the pewee.

In the early morning or in a moment of
twilight hush, this bird’s clear plaintive
notes command serious attention to every
nature attuned ear. For a moment the mere
universe about seems a small thing beside
this marvelous chime—ringing in a tiny un-
seen feathered throat. The mountains, the
oceans, terriﬁc storms, all the vastness of
Mother Nature dazzle us, even appall us
at the pettiness of life. But in nature, as
in life, it is the small thing that moves us
more greatly. The dainty pewee’s far off
Whistle has the power to send a tingle

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

through us that excites reverence and
ambition.

It is, perhaps, on an early fall morning
before the business of life is clamoring
about, when we are awakened the most thor-
oughly by the sweet throaty notes of this
bird and made to catch our breath in Won—
der at its symphony of peace and challenge.
One is indeed rewarded a pause from .the
rush of life when he listens to the pewee’s
singing from it’s quilted moss covered nest.
It makes us feel thoroughly alive and that
it is a great privilege to be alive on the
same planet with this tiny green—gray ﬂy-
catcher and songster.

List!

A “P-l-e-a-s-e.”

From those distant trees.

’Tis a pewee’s plaintive song
Crying to the dropping leaves.

Arizona Quail
GREiNVILLE T. CHAPMAN

Twenty-ﬁve years ago I lived in Arizona
and, like many men, was very fond of shoot-
ing. One day a friend and I shot a dozen
quail and gave them to the girl he was en-
gaged to marry. She invited us to help eat
them, but after supper told us never to
shoot another quail if we wanted her friend-
ship, or even her acquaintance, because, she
said, for every bird we killed one or more
wounded ones crawled away into the bushes
to die. I had never considered that feature
of quail shooting and I never went again.

At a little winter resort hotel some of the
guests threw wheat to the quail every even-
ing and, as time passed, more and more
quail gathered to- eat it. Thousands came
every evening, just before sun-down, and
made a deafening noise as they called to
one another while gathering for their feast.
They grew so tame they ate out of our
hands. The hotel was out in the desert,
twenty-odd miles from the railroad, so the
quail were seldom molested and ﬂocks of
hundreds of birds were a common sight.

When moving or going away for a holi-
day, do not be so cruel as to leave your cat
without providing for her care.

Page 93

Tenement House Birds
WILL HERMAN

SIGHT rarely seen in America is quite
common in the tropics, that of from
two to ten families of birds living in one
house. The most famous group of tenement
house builders are the weaver birds.
There is the buffalo weaver bird which
builds one huge: house from ﬁve to six feet
in length and about four to- ﬁve feet in

' width. Of course this isn’t one nest but a

group of from three to nine or ten. Each
family has its own private section—but it is
built in this fashion for solidity, comfort. . .
and perhaps sociability!

But the Sociable Weaver Bird builds the
tenement house most deserving of fame.
These homes (nests is a. weak name for
them) are built large enough to house ﬁve
or six men comfortably; the creatures build-
ing them are from ﬁve to six inches in
length.

Occasionally the homes are so heavy and
large that the tree creaks and ﬁnally the
branch breaks under the weight. As a. gen-
eral rule, the weaver bird selects the Acacia
known as Kame-el-dorn or camel tree of
South Africa. And this tree is tough enough
to hold the weight of any home these birds
may build—as they so wisely know.

The entire nest is made of a grass which
is so strong and wiry that the natives use
it in their shields to stop the lances of their
enemies! This is woven into a completely
rain-proof and wind-proof construction by a
single pair of birds. The second season
their progeny build an addition—and the
original family, too proud to live in their
old quarters, build a new addition. The old
room is used by insects, bats, and small
reptiles.

In this way the home grows regularly,
a new addition each season until it is hous-
ing close to ten bird families and various
other jungle life. After that it is time for
a new home which the new generation pro-
ceeds to- build.

In making your will, please remember
the American Humane Education Society
of Boston, the ﬁrst of its kind in the world.

BIRD REFUGE AT LAKE MERRITT IN THE HEART OF OAKLAND, CALIFORNIA, WHERE GREAT NUMBERS OF
DUCKS AND OTHER BIRDS CONGREGATE AND ARE FED BY CITY AUTHORITIES

 




 

 

.L_v_. 7n .

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Pagel36
Our Dumb Animals

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston Ofﬁce; 180 Longwood Av-
enue, Boston, Mass., to which all communications

should be addressed.

Dr. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON, Editor
WILLIAM M. MORRILL, Assistant

 

SEPTEMBER, 1934

 

FOR TERMS, see back cover.

AGENTS to take orders for Our Dumb Animals are
wanted everywhere. Liberal commissions are offered.

. EDITORS of all periodicals who receive this pub-
lication this month are invited to reprint any of the
articles with or without credit.

MANUSCRIPTS relating to animals, particularly
prose articles of about three hundred words are solic-
ited. We do not wish to consider prose manuscripts
longer than 800 words, nor verse in excess of thirty-
six lines. The shorter the better. All manuscripts
should be typewritten and an addressed envelope with
full return postage enclosed with each offering.

 

 

The Crime of the Strikers

HE heartless indifference to animal

suffering of the strikers recently at
the Chicago Stock—yards seems almost un-
believable. With tens of thousands of cat-
tle, swine and other livestock dying from
lack of food and water because employees
had struck, the strikers were willing to
stand idly by and let the poor creatures
drop dead in their tracks. No wonder
public sympathy is turning swiftly from
the strikers, and this irrespective of whe-
ther their cause is right or wrong. Not
only have they seriously hurt their own
organizations but they have huirt‘ other
similar groups of working men who resort
to strikes and will not continue on with
their jobs until differences can be settled
by arbitration. We pity the women and
children of the Stock-yards’ strikers who
will suffer from loss of wages but have
only unqualiﬁed condemnation for the men
guilty of such inhuman cruelty.

The Rodeo and Crime

E have just received a letter from

the President of The Eve Meyer
Foundation for the Promotion of Humane
Education at Houston, Texas, in which we
are told that 400 delegates from the United
States, Canada and possibly Mexico who
will meet at Houston as expert authorities
in penology and criminology are to be en-
tertained by a Rodeo. The American Prison
Association, Texas Board, is to put on this
Rodeo at Central Prison Farm, only a short
distance from Houston, the participants
being prisoners.

The writer of the letter says, “To me
this is not far different from the blood
sports, for I have witnessed performances
where beasts are needlessly tortured and
tormented. Furthermore, what do these
exhibitions do to the baser instincts of
men’s moral natures? What a spectacle
from an educational point of view to help
in reducing crime!” Evidently Houston’s
idea of entertaining guests is to furnish
them with a Rodeo largely banned by no
small part of the civilized world.

“Too many people don’t care what hap-
pens so long as it doesn’t happen to them.”

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Farewell to Our Waterfowl

F any of our readers would know how

rapidly the waterfowl of this country
are being slaughtered by hunters con-
sumed with the lust to kill and disregard-
ful of every right of wild life, let him read
a publication known as The Plain Truth,
edited by that distinguished naturalist,
William T. Hornaday. The United States
is cursed by a regiment of so-called sports-
men, who, scattering bait for migratory
geese and ducks and through the use of
live decoys and the sudden glare of ﬂood
lights at night, are wiping out with pump
guns and machine guns thousands of wild-
fowl, the sight of which and the ﬂight of
which are a joy to those vast millions of
this country who, with Ruskin, would
rather see a bird ﬂy than eat it.

In the publication above referred to one
is amazed to read of the hunting clubs,
such as the California Game Department
Association, that appear to be opposing in
every possible way such control of hunters
as would prevent the ultimate wiping out
of the nation’s Wildfowl. The Plain Truth
quotes from a reliable news item the fol-
lowing:

A nice ﬂight of ducks, estimated
from 25,000 to 50,000 birds, came
into the rice country at Willows, Sac-
ramento Valley, California, last Tues-
day. They made good fodder for the
near-by clubs for about three days.
They were so nearly annihilated there
that the remaining few were not no-
ticed in the further ﬂight southward.
This is in the same section of the state
where, in 1931, two men were reported
champion game hog slaughterers of
the world, having killed 218 geese in
one hour and 450 through one day.

“Today,” we quote, “a struggle is on in
Washington between the well-informed
and conscientious oﬂﬁcers of the Federal
Government on one side, and the blood-
crazy game-shooters on the other. The
migratory game of North America is the
stake. Canada helplessly looks on, asking,
‘Will the game-killers of the United States
now destroy ALL of Canada’s migratory
game?”’

Every lover of the waterfowl of the
country we urge to write today to the
Hon. Henry Wallace, Secretary of Agri-
culture, Washington, D. C, urging oppo-
sition to the baiting of these creatures and
urging him to take measures, however
drastic, to save the waterfowl from im-
minent extinction.

A Century of Progress?

From a letter written to the Executive
Oﬂﬁce of A Century of Progress, Chicago,
Illinois, by an animal lover:

Executive Ofﬁce of

A Century of Progress,
Chicago, Illinois,
Gentlemen:

To my greatest amazement I read a re-
port that the management of the Chicago
Falr made arrangements for a wild animal
show at the Fair grounds. According to
the Chicago Daily News, shipments of
these. poor creatures, helpless against the
cunnlng and power of man, are arriving
from every port of the globe.

Sept. 1931;

There is no doubt that the Standard Oil
Company dealt a great blow to its business
all over the United States through their
exhibit of wild animals at the Chicago Fair.
Now the management of “A Century of
Progress,” not satisﬁed with this exposition
of brutality, barbarism and cruelty, will
show a still greater barbarism by torturing
other hundreds of wild animals in addition
to the Standard Oil Company’s brutality
show.

Performances of this caliber are cer-
tainly no evidence of progress, of ethics,
nor an attribution to the so greatly needed
elevation and reﬁnement of character of
thousands of men, women and children.
Such barbarism tends to a greater de-
moralization of character of certain classes
of people, for which the American people
are paying annually some thirteen billion
dollars in taxes.

I and many of my friends do- consider
such wild animal shows a disgrace, espe-
cially for Chicago’s “A Century of Pro-
gress.” It is turning the Fair into an affair
of barbarism and cruelty. It will remind
people of the days of Nero and ancient
Rome.

Destruction of Alaskan Sea-
Lions

N June 19 we telegraphed the Presi-

dent of the United States urging him
not to sign a measure, which, according to
newspaper reports, seemed to threaten the
total destruction of our Alaska sea-lions.
We are glad to publish the reply from the
Department of Commerce.

“Your telegram of June 19, addressed
to the President, requesting that approval
be withheld on the bill to lessen protection
of Alaska sea-lions, has been referred to
this office for acknowledgment.

In this connection you are advised that
the bill in question, H. R. 869, introduced
on March 14, 1934, by Delegate Dimond,
passed the House of Representatives on
May 7, and passed the Senate on June 13
with an amendment as follows:

“That sea-lions shall not be killed in the
waters of Alaska except under such rules
and regulations as the Secretary of Com—
merce may prescribe, in order to prevent
the extinction of sea-lions as a species of
interesting sea life in the waters of
Alaska.”

On June 15 the House agreed to the
amendment, and on June 16 the measure
was approved by the President.

It would seem that the above-quoted
amendment, which was offered by Senator
Dill in practically the closing hours of the
73rd session of Congress, will meet the
objections which you have to the bill. Be-
fore adoption of the amendment, the bill
would have removed all protection from
sea-lions in Alaskan waters, but under
the present circumstances any killings of
such animals will be in accordance with
regulations of the Secretary of Commerce.

It is planned that the regulations re-
garding the matter will be along the same
general line as those which this Depart-
ment has had in effect for several years
past.

Very truly yours,

CHAS. E. JACKSON
Acting Commissioner

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 1.42
@112 Zﬁanh nf merry

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

E. A. MARYOTT, State Organizer
PLEDGE

I will try to be kind to all living creatures and
try to protect them from cruel usage.

The American Humane Education Society will send
to every person who forms a Band of Mercy of thirty
members, and sends the name chosen for the Band and
the name and post-office address of the president who
has been duly elected, special Band of Mercy literature
and a gilt badge for the president.

See inside front cover for prices of literature and
Band of Mercy supplies.

NEW BANDS OF MERCY

One hundred and twenty-two new Bands
of Mercy were reported during July. Of
these, 113 were in Illinois, eight in Vir-
ginia, and one in Georgia.

Total number Bands of Mercy organized
by Parent American Society, 203,258.

On Atlanta Playgrounds

ROM our ﬁeld worker in Georgia, Mrs.

Katherine Weathersbee, comes the re-
port that through the co-operation of the
recreation director of the FERA in Atlanta,
humane education is being included in the
program at the twenty-one playgrounds in
that city, so that 25,000 children are being
given daily instruction in kindness to ani-
mals. Pet parades, pet shows, kindness
plays and readings are always featured in
some of the groups. Mrs. Weathersbee has
provided one hundred ribbons to be given
as prizes and also supplied literature to
all the instructors. Every child is enrolled
in the Band of Mercy and has taken the
pledge of the Jack London Club.

Our readers are urged to clip from “Our
Dumb Animals” various articles and-re-
quest their local editors to republish.
Copies so mutilated will be made good by
us upon application.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

“Minnie”
LEON J. GAYLOR

T isn’t often that an alley cat has an

opportunity to hob-nob with the famous.
And it isn’t often that the death of such
a feline is mourned by the literary great.

“Minnie” was a child of the alleys. She
couldn’t have been expected to amount to
much. She didn’t come from a line of ped-
igreed and be—ribboned ancestors. No man
knows her ancestry; no man knows the
story of her early life.

One day when Joe Bleeck, founder of New
York’s famous Artists’ and Writers’ Club,
opened the door to ﬁx the lock Minnie
strolled nonchalantly in. The club members
weren’t usually enthusiastic about stray
cats, but Minnie started right in paying her
way by killing the rats about the club.
Writers and artists aren’t really such a
bad sort, and Minnie soon made a host of
friends.

’ Among those friends were such as Enrico
Caruso, who used to come across the street
to the club from the Metropolitan Opera
House. In those days the great Caruso was
at the height of his fame, while Minnie was
just a black and white alley cat, but the
greatest singer of all was glad to speak a
kind word to Minnie, and to pat her head
when she rubbed against his leg.

Then there was Albert Payson Terhune,
who has written such charming stories of
dogs. Minnie was very lucky to know him,
for he liked cats, too, and they became very
fast friends.

There were many others with whom Min-
nie became acquainted in her years at the
club—Lawrence Tibbett, the singer; the late
Clare Briggs; Mario Chamlee; William J.
Fallon; Donald Henderson Clarke—many
other persons of whom most anybody would
be glad to be able to say “I knew him
when—.”

Sept. 1931;

Yes, Minnie knew'all those and more, but
Joe Bleeck remained her special pal. She
thought Joe Cook was a very funny fellow;
she liked every one of them for their kind-
nesses to her, but Joe Bleeck was her
patron.

Years passed. Many of the people no
longer came to the club. The great Caruso
had been singing in heavenly choirs for
years. Old faces disappeared from the
crowd at the club; new faces appeared. Still
Minnie remained.

She blissfully went about her daily duties
of keeping the club free from rats. In her
years there, so say her writer friends, she
became the mother of over a hundred kit-
tens.

Then Minnie became ill. She couldn’t eat;
she became emaciated. So one day Joe
Bleeck took her to the best feline hospital
in the city. He carried her in his arms in
a taxi.

The veterinarian examined her. He shook
his head. Joe Bleeck looked at him, ques-
tioningly. The doctor shook his head again.

“Stomach tumor and old age,” he said.
“She can’t recover.”

Joe Bleeck went to look at her for the
last time. Minnie was lying quite helpless
in her bed. She looked up at Joe Bleeck, and
spoke her farewell in one last weak, plain-
tive “Meow.”

Bleeck turned away, raised a finger to
his eye.

“Just some soot in my eye,” he murmured.
“She’s just a cat.”

Yes, Minnie was a cat—just an ordinary
black and white alley cat. But now she
lies in an expensive plot in the Hartsdale
animal cemetery, and many great writers
and artists miss her.

If there be an Artists’ and Writers’ club
in heaven—and there must be—perhaps
Minnie rubs her back against the great
Caruso’s leg and purrs contentedly.

Just an alley cat——

 

PUPILS OF SCHOOL IN SAN LUIS POTOSI, MEXICO, CELEBRATING BE KIND TO ANIMALS WEEK

Dr. A. T. Ishkanian, humane representative in Mexico, spent three weeks in San Luis Potosi,
schools and churches. The school here pictured had a program lasting ﬁve days.
animals, including horses, chickens, rabbits, squirrels, pigeons,

having her picture taken with the others.

holding conferences in the city

. They paraded through the streets with their
birds, a rooster, a lamb, and a cow. The last named objected to

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

GLORY TO
GOD,
PEACE ON EARTH,
KINDNESS, JUSTICE
AND MERCY 'ro
EVERY LIVING
CREATURE.

 
  
  

   
 
 
   
 
    

Founded by Geo. T. Angell Incorporated 1889

For rates of membership in both of our Societies
see back cover. Checks should be made payable to
Treasurer.

Ofﬁcers of the American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds

JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board

CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President, United Shoe
Machinery Corporation

PHILIP STOCKTON, President, First National Bank of
Boston

Foreign Corresponding Representatives

George B. Duff ................... Australia

Luis Pareja Cornejo ............. Ecuador

Charles A. Williams ............. France

Leonard T. Hawksley ............ Italy

Mrs. Mary P. E. Nitobe .......... Japan

Mrs. Marie C. E. Houghton ........ Madeira

Dr. A. T. Ishkanian .............. Mexico

Luther Parker ................... Philippine Islands
Joaquin Julia .................... Spain

Mrs. Alice W. Manning ........... Turkey

Humane Press Bureau

Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke, Secretary
180 Longwood Ave., Boston

Field Workers of the Society

Mrs. Alice L. Park, Palo Alto, California
Mrs. Rachel C. Hogue, San Diego, California
Mrs. Jennie R. Nichols, Tacoma, Washington
James D. Burton, Harriman, Tennessee
Mrs. Katherine Weathersbee, Atlanta, Georgia
Rev. F. Rivers Barnwell, Fort Worth, Texas
MISS Blanche Finley, Richmond, Virginia
Rev. John W. Lemon, Ark, Virginia
MISS Lucia F. Gilbert, Boston, Massachusetts
Mrs. Jennie R. Toomim, Chicago, Ill.
Seymour Carroll, Columbia, S. C.
Rev. R. E. Grifﬁth, De Land, Florida

Field Representative

Wm. F. H. Wentzel, M.S., Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

Field Lecturer in Massachusetts
Ella A. Maryott

Societies’ Annuity Bonds

MANY men and women, lovers of ani-
mals, are getting both happiness and
material comfort from our two Societies’
Annuity Bonds. These bonds are absolutely
safe and yield a return according to one’s
age. They make their appeal ordinarily to
people over 40 years of age. Send the
coupon for a free folder which gives full
details. Fill in the coupon and mail it now.
The Massachusetts S. P. C. A. (or)
The American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Ave., Boston, Mass.

Without obligation to me, please send
me your folder which tells all about your
Annuity Bonds.

.......
uuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuu
. .
.......
..........................

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

The Anti-Steel Trap Bill

Which English Humanitarians Are Seeking
to Secure

E it enacted by the King’s most Excel-

lent Majesty, by and with the advice
and consent of the Lords Spiritual and
Temporal, and Commons, in this present
Parliament assembled, and by the authority
of the same, as follows:—

1. From and after the expiry of one
year after the passing of this Act any per-
son manufacturing, buying, selling, or hav-
ing in his possession or custody the com-
mon steel trap or any other mechanical
device calculated to catch rabbits or other
animals or birds in such manner as to
inﬂict pain by gripping a limb or limbs
of such rabbits or other animals or birds
shall be guilty of an offense punishable on
summary conviction by a ﬁne not exceeding
£50 or by imprisonment with or without
hard labour not exceeding three months or
by both such imprisonment and such ﬁne.

2. This Act may be cited as the Steel
Traps Act, 1934.

Report from Turkey

ROM Istanbul, the city we all used

to know as Constantinople, comes an
excellent report from the Honorary Secre—
tary, Mrs. Alice W. Manning, of the work
of the S. P. C. A. of that city. We have
space for just a word or two, though the
report is worthy of much fuller notice.

Two facts, it is asserted, witness to gen-
uine accomplishments for the year 1933.
The ﬁrst is the founding of an S. P. C. A.
at Ankara, which is now really the capital
city of Turkey, and the decision of the
Municipal Council of Istanbul forbidding
all camel ﬁghts. These cruel and degrad-
ing spectacles have been absolutely out-
lawed and this the report speaks of as a
matter of great importance. The second
is that much has been done to stop a very
universal and cruel sport known as cock-
ﬁghting.

In humane education much good work
was accomplished. Eight talks each month
were given in primary schools and an ex-
cellent conference was held at the annual
reception given at Robert College to the
pupils of the school for police. Also at
Robert College was held the annual speak-
ing contest for the Angel] Medal Prize. A
large amount of literature and posters was
sent out to the most important primary
schools of Asia Minor.

Here are a few of the statistics from
the report of the work of the hospital con-
nected with the Istanbul Society. Number
of days of hospitalization were 698; num-
ber of dogs humanely put to sleep, 3,337,
and cats, 3,583. When one realizes what
has been done to save the dogs of this cele-
brated city from the sufferings to which
they were subjected in the past years he
must congratulate the Society for what it
has accomplished. During ﬁve months of
the year the hospital had no one it could
send to answer calls for animals to be
brought to the hospital for various pur-
poses. However, for the other seven months
such calls amounted to 1,200. Place these-
facts over against the condition of things
in Constantinople a few years ago and
one can only marvel at the splendid things
that have been accomplished.

 

Sept. 1934

For Peace and Freedom

OR these two great ideals the Women’s

International League was organized.
The League just now is seeking to- have
August 27 nationally recognized in com-
memoration of the signing of the Kellogg-
Briand Pact for the Renunciation of War.
We are glad to give such publicity as we
can to this endeavor. The League also is
issuing the following card asking for
signatures. If any of our readers would
like to sign the cards who .may not be able
to obtain them and they will authorize
us to sign their names to such a card we
will do it for them and forward the name
to the League’s headquarters, 532 17th
Street, N. W., Washington, D. C. A postal
card to us will be all that is necessary.

NO MORE WAR

Registration of Citizens

I hereby join with people in all countries
who desire to end war in demanding that
governments—pledged to settle disputes by
peaceful means—immediately give up the
dangerous, expensive armaments of war.
I join with other citizens of the United
States in calling on our President to use
all his great power to secure World Dis-
armament and to end War.

Name ...............................

Every MAN OR WOMAN who believes in
the sacredness of human life; who realizes
that another world war would bring un-
told horror and suffering and threaten the
very existence of humanity; who knows
that a race in armament such as the
great nations are now beginning, is one of
the most certain causes of war; and who
believes that the people must secure action
by their government NOW, ending war
for all time IS ASKED TO SIGN THIS
CARD.
Send to

WOMEN’S INTERNATIONAL LEAGUE
532—17th Street
Washington, D. C.

American Fondouk, Fez,

Morocco
Report for June, 1934—30 Days
Daily average, large animals 35
Forage for same $31.27
Daily average dogs 7.7
Forage for same 3.90
Large animals humanely put to sleep 17 11.79
Transportation 3.59
ages, grooms, etc. 91.78
Superintendent’s salary 159.36
Assistant’s salary 83.00
Veterinary’s salary 26.56
Motor allowance 16.60
Sundries 10.94

 

$438.79
Entries: 11 horses, 11 mules, 32 donkeys.
Exits: 7 horses, 7 mules, 26 donkeys.

Monthly Report of Supt.’s Assistant, and Inspector,
on 70 native fondouks, and the two markets for ani-
mals held twice weekly. Kilometers traveled, 329;
cases investigated, 839; animals seen, 13,302; animals
treated, 4,686; animals transferred, 16.

The teacher was giving her class a test
on lessons in natural history. “Now,
Bobby,” she said, “tell me where the ele-
phant is found.”

Bobby hesitated a moment; then his face
lighted up as he answered, “The elephant
is such a large animal that it is scarcely
ever lost.” ——M0ntreal Star




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 91;
("the 132mb of merry

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

E. A. MARYOTT, State Organizer
PLEDGE

I will try to be kind to all living creatures and
try to protect them from cruel usage.

. . . . d

The American Humane Education Somety W111 s_en
to every person who forms a Band of Mercy of thirtg
members, and sends the name chosen for the .Band all
the name and post-ofﬁce address of the pres1dent w 0
has been duly elected, special Band of Mercy literature

nd a gilt badge for the president. .
a See inside front cover for prices of literature and

Band of Mercy supplies.

NEW BANDS OF MERCY

Nine hundred and forty-ﬁve new Bands
of Mercy were reported during April. Of
these, 290 were in Illinois, 240 1n New
Hampshire, 150 in Florida, 107 in .Vlrginia,
78 in Rhode Island, 37 in Georgia, 26 in
Massachusetts, twelve in Pennsylvania, two
in Texas, and one each in Missouri, North
Carolina, and South Carolina.

Total number Bands of Mercy organized
by Parent American Society, 201,919.

Kind Eyes

JEAN E. CARTH

l/Vhen whispered word, or discontent
Would lead me to surmise

That friends are false, and love untrue——
I turn to my dog’s eyes.

Although I may have been disturbed
And acted most unwise—

Devotion still burns steadily
For me in his dear eyes.

The earth has turned, and many moons
Have followed his demise;

But constant as the polar star
Is love in his kind eyes.

In times of stress and loneliness,
Or lack in any guise,

I still can see that tenderness
Down deep in my dog’s eyes.

The annual convention of Humane So—
cieties will be held at Columbus, Ohio, Tues—
day, Wednesday and Thursday,
9—11, 1934.

Attractive Annuity Bonds

ANY men and women, lovers of ani-

mals, are getting both happiness and
material comfort from our two Societies’
Annuity Bonds. These bonds are absolutely
safe and yield a return according to one’s
age. They make their appeal ordinarily to
people over 40 years of age. Send the
coupon for a free folder which gives full
details. Fill in the coupon and mail it now.
The Massachusetts S. P. C. A. (or)
The American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Ave., Boston, Mass.

Without obligation to me, please send

me your folder which tells all about your
Annuity Bonds.

Name ..................................
Age ...................................

Address ................................

City ...................... State ........

October

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

June, 1931;

 

, l'ﬁXNnuorHMERcY OF c OLF AX SCHOOL, SOUTH BEND, INDIANA

This club of forty boys from the ﬁfth and sixth grades holds regular meetings
when the members learn the habits of animals and birds and listen to nature stories.
Photograph by courtesy of the South Bend Tribune.

 

 

“Why I Should Be Kind To
Animals”

Humane Essay Contest

HE recent prize essay contest open to
T boys and girls under sixteen years of
age, conducted by the Boston Sunday Her-
ald, co-operating with the Massachusetts
S. P. C. A., brought an enthusiastic re—
sponse from all sections of New England,
more than 2,000 entries having been re—
ceived.

This popular contest was featured in the

“Good Sport” Department of the Herald-

and carried 49 cash prizes, aggregating
$165 in value, which amount was provided
through the Society by a friend who was
interested in the extension of humane edu-
cation. The essays were limited to not more
than 300 words and awards were made on
the basis of the value of the ideas presented,
originality of thought and the manner of
presentation, with due weight given the
literary merit of the composition. Decision
was made by the editor of the Herald.

The winners of the four grand prizes
were announced on April 22 as follows:
1st, Marabelle Stebbins, age 13, of Newton
Centre; 2nd, Mary Craig, age 15, of Wal—
tham; 3rd, Robert McLaughlin, age 16, of
Laconia, N. H.; 4th, Shirley E. Evans, age
13, of Amesbury, who received $25, $20,
$15, and $10 respectively. The entries of
these contestants were published in the
Herald and the ﬁrst prize winner had the
distinction of broadcasting her essay over a
local radio station.

Congratulations are due to the Sunday
Herald for conducting so ﬁne a humane
educational project in its “Good Sport”
Department.

First Prize Essay

The following essay, by Marabelle Steb-
bins, age 13, won the ﬁrst prize of $25 cash:

Dear Editor:

As a Girl Scout and an interested mem-
ber of the Good Sport Club, this is not the
ﬁrst time I have thought about being kind
to animals, but I don’t believe I have ever
gone deeply into the reasons before.

How could we live without animals? We
would miss the happy times with playful
kittens in the house, and frisky puppies

romping through the woods. We depend
upon our animals for sympathy and friend-
ship that can come only from dumb and de-
fenseless creatures. If we were cruel to our
pets we should miss all this.

I think we are repaid for every kindness
we do. We throw crumbs to our feathered
friends while the ground is covered with
snow, and enjoy the beautiful melodies of
the song thrush and the lark all summer
long. The squirrels will leap from tree to
tree, chattering gaily, and even the bluejay
adds a touch of color, in harmony with the
ﬂash of a tanager’s wing, as they feed in
the cherry tree.

When we feel sad or lonely, what can be
quicker than a kitten to purr out his sym-
pathy, or a dog to lick our hands, and to
look at us, mute, indeed, but with eyes full
of love and devotion?

By each little act of kindness to an ani-
mal we are building in ourselves something
stronger and better, more worthy to aid hu-
manity. On the other hand each cruel or
thoughtless deed corrupts our whole nature.

A beautiful reason why we should be kind
to animals is given by Coleridge:

He prayeth well, who loyeth well
Both man, and bird, and beast.

He prayeth best, who loveth best
All things both great and small;

For the dear God who loveth us,
He made and loveth all.

“Wouldn’t Be Without It”

This, from Mrs. Eleanor S. Brownell of
Riverhead, N. Y., is but one of many similar
letters that come to our ofﬁce:

Dear Sirs:—Enclosed please ﬁnd $1 for
renewal of my subscription to Our Dumb
Animals. I couldn’t teach without its splen-
did inﬂuence for good on my dear children.
If I didn’t teach, I wouldn’t be without it
in my home either. I will do all I can to
further this worthy cause you represent.

A display of literature and posters from
the American Humane Education Society,
Boston, was one of the features at the Na-
tional Congress of Parents and Teachers,
held at Des Moines, Iowa, May 13-19, of
which Mrs. Jennie R. Nichols is chairman
of humane education.




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 118
The Burros of Cordova

The burros, singly or in lines of ﬁve or ten, are
among the common and interesting sights of Spain

WALTER SCOTT

The land of Spain has world—wide fame;
Who does not know its beauty?

Among its charms I’d like to name
The burros of Cordova.

Strong, gentle and hard working friend,
All kinds of loads you carry,

My greetings from the heart I send,
Wise burro of Cordova.

The Guadalquivir flows along
Past mosque, and bridge and city,
All share in story and in song
With burros of Cordova.

No burro ever hurt a child,
At least within my knowledge,
The horse and auto may run wild
But no Cordova burro.

You show us how to work and play,
Go slow and bear our burdens,

When free you dance along your way,
Brave burro of Cordova.

Tell me the secret of your life,
You seem content and happy
And peaceful in the midst of strife,

Wise burro of Cordova.

Think you the New Age comes this way,
A happier world to be,

Less work, more play, a holy day,
Brave burro of Cordova?

I hope that I may see again
The young men and the maidens,
The comely matrons, stalwart men
And burros of Cordova.

As to Bull-fights in Cuba

N response to a letter from our two or-

ganizations urging upon the President of
the Cuban Republic that action be taken
against the proposal to introduce bull-
ﬁghting again into Cuba, we have received
the following:

The Secretary to the President acknowl-
edges to the President of the Massachusetts
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals and the American Humane Educa-
tion Society of Boston, his letter of the 28th
of May, and has the pleasure of informing
him that in compliance with the instructions
of the President of the Republic it has been
turned over to the Secretary of the Interior,
said letter relating to bull—baiting in order
that the matter may have the attention of
that department.

EMETERIO S. SANTOVENIA

takes this opportunity to reiterate that the
above matter will have due consideration.

The swans on the palace moat, Wells,
England, have acquired a habit handed
down from many generations, of ringing a
bell for their daily food. A string is con-
nected with a bell in the old drawbridge,
and it is interesting to watch the birds pull-
lng at the string until they are rewarded by
food thrown from the window.

OUR DUMB

 

 

THE AMERICAN BURRO HAS LITTLE
POETRY IN HIS LIFE

Mules and Mines

DAVID LAVENDER

AR off down the twisting drift of the

mine tunnel two lights came bobbing
into View. It was the ore train. We step-
ped aside as the engine—an old yellow
mule—drew abreast.

The mule nickered and stopped. The
driver slacked his reins. “Go ahead and git
your apple, ‘Josie’,” he said.

Josie was busy getting not one apple, but
many. All the miners had opened their
lunch boxes and were crowding around,
offering fruit saved from their midday meal.
Josie, her fat sides quivering, was enjoying
a regal feast.

The mule-skinner let her eat her ﬁll.
When she had had enough, she started out
again of her own accord.

“It’s a devil of a note,” I said to Christ—
mas Tree John, “making a mule work under-
ground.”

Christmas Tree shrugged. “Why? Them
mules only ‘Work eight hours a day, same
as us. They’re fed all they can eat. It
ain’t no harder on a mule than it is on a
man.”

I was new to the gold “diggins” of Colo-
rado. I’d come up above timberline with
many preconceived notions. One was that
the mine mules are continually subjected to
unrelieved abuse. Reluctantly but surely,
however, I was forced to the conclusion that
if I were a mule and had to work anyhow,
I’d just as soon work in a gold mine as any-
where. Rather, perhaps.

The average little mountain mine is an
isolated place, and it is seldom possible to
get electric power to pull the ore trains.
So the work is done by mules. Without
them the mines would cease to function.

The best of care is given these four-legged
power plants. Up here, 12,000 feet high on
the roof of the world, hay has to be packed,
literally a pound at a time, over narrow,
precipitous trails. It costs from $16 to $20
a ton delivered. But there is no stint in
feeding. And always there is a generous
helping of oats for dessert.

In summer, of course, they can get out
and graze. In the winter it is a different
proposition. The snow piles up thirty feet
deep and the thermometer shivers at sixty
below. The mules are glad to stay in the
scrupulously clean, well-heated barns. It
beats pawing the mountain side for a thin
meal of willow bark.

 

ANIMALS

Aug. 1934

I know of only one case of conﬁnement
that can be described as cruel, and that
couldn’t be helped. We had “Cooney,” the
black mule, up on two level, hauling tim-
bers. Inside there was no way to get a mule
down to the main tunnel and out. The only
trail led above ground, along the cliffs.

An early fall blizzard came whooping
across the pass and drifted a mammoth
blockade over the tunnel mouth. The only
way out was down a rickety man-way lad—
der and through the main level. And of
course Cooney couldn’t climb ladders. We
tried to dig a trail through the snow for
him, but it was no use. It ﬁlled in faster
than we could shovel it out. He was snowed
in for the winter.

We rigged up a Windlass and cranked hay

up 600 feet by hand for him. He was al—

ways glad to see us when we came to feed
him and followed us around like a dog.
He was happy when summer came and he
could get out. As a recompense we weren’t
going to work him at all. But after two
weeks or so Cooney got restless. He came
in the barn and stood beside his harness.
He wanted to get back on the job.

These mine mules are extremely clever.
They know just how much they’re supposed
to do, and neither pleading nor pounding
can get an ounce more work out of them.
Once when I was driving “Buck,” I hitched
on ﬁve cars. Four is the regular number.
Buck just laid back his ears and stood there.
There was no budging him. I went back
and unhooked the extra car. He looked
around to make sure it was gone, and then
started into the mine without my saying
a word.

All of the mules are great pets with the
miners. They are pampered, fed fruits and
sweets, and generally made a fuss over.
Why not? There’s not much to make life
easy in a gold mine, and a mule is a ﬁrmer
friend than lots of men.

We all felt pretty down at the mouth
when Buck died, though no one said much
about it. The whole crew worked at blast—
ing a grave for him out of the granite be-
low the mill. We didn’t put up a marker.
There was no need for it. We all knew
that Buck was where he liked it best—
underground.

A Surprising Interview

The New York World-Telegram recently
had an interview with Mr. Albert Payson
Terhune, unofﬁcial spokesman for the cult
of dog-lovers in the land, who had this to
say about cats: .

“A cat is unconquerable . . . . You take a
human baby, a puppy and a kitten and put
them on the ﬂoor and bring danger near.
The baby will yowl for help. The puppy
will roll over on its back and wave its paws
in the air and beg you not to hurt it. But
the kitten will arch its back and spit and
prepare to ﬁght. You can’t conquer a cat.”

The reporter was indiscreet enough to
ask the famous dog-lover if dogs are more
intelligent than cats, and reports that Mr.
Terhune looked a little uncomfortable as he
replied:

“I am an honest man and I must admit
that the answer is no. Cats do some marvel-
ously intelligent things. They will learn by
themselves to unlatch a door or to hit a fau-
cet handle until they turn the water on. A
dog would never learn that.”

 

 

 




 

WA— - v-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

FREE Write for
' BOOKLET N0. 652

  
  
     
   

on the practical re-
'0' moval of worms in
DOGS Dogs of all breeds

and ages.

largo Ro d rms and Hookworms

Th fe, easy-to-give worm treatment.
Degensclable. For free booklet WRITE T0

PARKE, DAVIS & CO.

D kN-58—L Animallndustry Dept, Detroit, Mich.
:JDrug Stores Sell Parke-Davis Products.—

 

 

 

 

 

 

THIS SPACE

CONTRIBUTED

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The Friend of
Every Mother S03?

3
‘16“:“r Values Her
0“ Children’s SkinHealth

Price 25c. Sample free Address.

 

 

“Cutlcura,” Dept. 6K, Madden, Maul.

 

A‘AAAA AAAA

 

'v'Avvvvvvwvvvv

 

 

 

 

 

 

THIS SPACE
CONTRIBUTED

 

 

 

 

A HUMANE LIBRARY FOR $1

Bound volumes of OUR DUMB
ANIMALS for 1933, twelve num-
bers, 192 pp., 150 illustrations,
green cloth, gilt titles. An attrac-
tive gift to hotels, hospitals, institu-
tions of all kinds, and to individuals.
Order today from

180 Longwood Avenue,

Boston, Mass.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Since 1832

J. S. WATERMAN & SONS, Inc.
ﬂﬁnhertakers

BOSTON—BROOKLINE—CAMBRIDGE
City and Out-of-Town Service

 

 

 

Humane literature and Band of Mercy Supplies

For Sale at 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass. at these prices, postpaid.

Titles in bold-face type are of books or booklets

The Great Cruelty, summary of Dr. Rowley’s address on humane slaughtering .................. Free
Humane Calendar for 1935 ........... ea ach, 20 cts. Humane Education

Two for 35 cts. six for $1.00; $1.80 per dozen
Our Dumb Animals, 1933 bound ,volume $1. 00 The Humane Bulletin, for use in schools,

Our Dumb Animals, January to Decem-

ber, 1929, 1931, and 1932, bound in

cloth, special, each .................. .75
Colored Posters, 17 x 28 inches, with

attractive pictures and verses, six in

the set .......... . . . . 1.00
Be Kind to Animals Blotters, 6%x3% . $0.50 per 100
About the Horse

Black Beauty (English), cloth, 45 cents; paper, 20 cts.
The Shame of It—Mutilating the horse

by setting up his tail. Dr. Rowley’s

protest against this cruelty for fash-

ion’s sake. Four illus., 4 pp. ....... Free
What Constitutes Cruelty, Francis H.

Rowley .. ........................... $0.30 per 100

The Horse—Treatment of Sores; etc. 60

Humane Education Leaﬂet, No. 5 ...... 50 “ “
The Horse’s Pray er ............ .30 “ “
The Bell of Atri, Poem by Longfellow .. .50 “ “

About the Dog

Beautiful Joe, new, illus., $1.50 ........ small, 50 cts.
Distemper in Dogs, Dr. Schneider ...... Free
Rabies v.s Running Fits, Dr. Schneider . Free

Eulogy on the Dog ,by Vest, post- card . $1.00 per 100
The Dog—Its Care in Health and Disease .60

Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 3 and 4 .50 “ “
The Story of Barry .................... .30 “ “

About the Bird

The Birds of God, 318 pp. ., illus. ...... cloth, $0.45
Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 1 and 2 $0. 50 per 100
How the Birds Help the Farmer .50
The Air- -gun and the Birds

............ .50 “ “

About the Cat
The Cat—Its Care in Health and Disease $0.60 per 100
Surplus Cats .........................
The Cat in Literature .
Do Not Leave Your Cat to Starve .. .50 “ “
“The Beggar Cat,’ ’post- card, 6 cts. doz. .50 “ “

About Other Animals

Prince Rudolf’s Quest, Kenniston, 150

pp. ., special .................. boards, 50 cts.
.paper, 7 cts.
For Pity’ s Sake ....................... paper, 5 cts.
Michael Brother of Jerry, Jack London, cloth, 75 cts.
First Aid to Animals, Dr. Schneider, 8 pp. $1.00 per 100
What is the Jack London Club? .03
Foreword from “Michael Brother of

Jerry” ....................... .30 “ “
Gripped in the Teeth of Steel, 2 pp. 1.00 “ “
How to Kill Animals Humanely, 4 pp... 1.00 “ “
Leaﬂets, No. 6, Animals ............... .50 “ “

96 pp. ........... 12 cents each; ten for $1.00
Care and Kindness for Our Animal

Friends, 29 pp., paper covers, many

illus. .. ..... 15 cents each; seven for $1.00
Kindness Picture Book, 32 pp., 15 cts. ; seven for $1.00
The Teacher’s Helper in Humane Edu-

cation, 32 pp. ..................... each, 10 cts.
Humane Education—for Parents and

Teachers, 20 pp. .................... each, 10 cts.
An Early Start to Kindness, Lucia F.

Gilbert, 48 pp. For ﬁrst and second

grades ............................. each, 10 cts.
Picture Lesson Cards, each 10 cts., set

of eight .................. 35 cts.
“Be Kind to Animals” pennants ..... each, 25 cts.
“Be Kind to Animals” placards ....... each, 3 cts.
The Humane Idea, Dr. Francis H.

Rowley . ......... cloth, 35 cts. ,paper, 15 cts.
Friends and Helpers (selections for

school use), Sarah J. Eddy .......... cloth, 96 cts.
Animals as Seen by the Poets, Guy
Richardson, 32 pp. ................... cloth, 35 cts.

The B—K—T—A—Club, play, 3 cts. each; ten for 25c.
Fred Changes His Mind, play, 5cts. each; six for 25c.
“And a Little Child Shall Lead Them.’

pay] .................... 3 cts. each; ten for 25 cts.
Friends of Fur and Feather, play, .

3 cts. each; ten for 25 cts.

Humane Exercises for use in Schools

(1934) .............................. $1.50 per 100
Humane Day in Schools, with class-room

project, 8 pp ....................... 2.00 “ “
Humane Education the Vital Need, Dr.

Rowley, short radio address, 2 cts. each; 75 “ “
Humane Education, What to Teach and

HOW to Teach It .................... .50 “ “
A Talk with the Teacher .............. .50 “ “
Our Love for Animals, a short radio ad-

dress ................... 2 cts. each; 1. 00 “ “
Hints for Humane Sunday ............. .75 “ “
A Festival of Tender Mercies .......... .50 “ “
The Coming Education ................ .30 “ “
A Great Prophecy, Dr. Rowley ......... Free

American College Presidents and the
American Humane Education Society . . Free

Band of Mercy

“Be Kind to Animals” Buttons, three
styles—Band of Mercy, Humane So-
C. A.

ciety, or S. P. ................ $1. 00 per 100
Buttons—White star on blue ground with

gilt letters and border, one cent each 1. 00 “ “
Badges, gold ﬁnish, large, 10 cts. ..... small, 5 cts.
“Band of Mercy” Pennant ........... 35 cts.
Songs of Happy Life, With music, S.

J. Eddy ............................. 50 cts.
Songs of Happy Life (56 pages, words

only) ............................... $3. 00 per 100
Band of Mercy Membership Card ......
How to Form Bands of Mercy .......... 5.0 “ “

Does it Pay, Story of one Band of Mercy .30 “ “

Please enclose remittance with orders for less than $1

AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY, 180 Longwood Ave., Boston, Mass.

 

 

 

 

Best Humane Films!
ON BEHALF OF ANIMALS

Showing activities of Angel] Animal Hospital of Mass. S. P. C. A.,

scenes at Rest Farm for Horses, Methuen, etc.

TWO REELS, 30 MINUTES

THE BELL OF ATRI

Illustrating Longfellow’s poem
State whether regular 35 mm., or 16 mm. is required

Terms on application to Secretary

Massachusetts S. P. C. A., 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 166

bundle of hay for them. Always when I
returned in the morning the hay was gone,
but it was several days before I had another
sight of the deer. They were standing at
the fence one very cold morning, as if
awaiting my coming, but they ﬂed as soon
as I approached.

As the days passed, however, and the
deer learned to know me, they became less
timid. They would stand at some distance
from the fence, watching me, until I had
left the corral and then they would come
up and eat the hay. And after a time they
became still more brave and would stand
and munch the hay while I went about my
work. At ﬁrst they were ever on the alert
and ready to bound away, but at last they
came to regard me as a friend and would
not show the slightest concern at my move-
ments. I could even approach the fence at
which they stood eating, though they would
never allow me to touch them.

I fed the doe and her fawn their little
armfuls of hay all winter. As soon as
spring came and tiny bunches of grass ap-
peared among the sage brush, they vanished
into the foothills. No doubt they have sum-
mered on blue-bells and elderberry leaves.

But I have been wondering what will be-
come of my two deer, and the thousands of
others that inhabit our mountains, this com-
ing winter. We have had the dryest of
many dry summers. The mountain grasses
have been thin and brittle; the leaves have
withered on oak and quaking aspen. What
are our deer to live on through the long
winter? We are rightly classiﬁed as be-
longing in the drought-stricken area, we of
the West. In our own feed yard two small
stacks of hay stand where there have usu-
ally been a dozen. The government men
have come and taken away many of our
cattle; it will be a struggle if we are to
bring those remaining through the coming
winter.

If my two deer return to me this winter,
I shall have nothing to offer them. They
will perhaps have to perish along with a
thousand others. In our own need a beneﬁ-
cent and patiently striving government has
come to our rescue. It is to be hoped that
from some source will come succor for our
dumb friends of the mountains.

His Dog

LAURA SIMMONS

I think I sniff excitement in the air;

Perhaps he’s coming home! If I could know!

But up and down the street, and every-
where,

I’ve watched about a hundred years or so.

Yet somehow I expect him any day —

With shout and smile, as when he went
away.

And when I hear that whistle! and you see

A streak of dog, in frantic happiness—

You’ll understand. He’ll pat my head and
say:

“Hullo, old Scout! You missed me some,
I guess!”

I leap to kiss his hand—and then, Oh boy—

I wonder if a dog can die of joy?

“Strange life a dog’s,” said Jolyon sud-
denly; “the only four—footer with the rudi-
ments of altruism and a sense of God.”

JOHN GALSWORTHY

OUR DUMB ANIMALS
“Queen High”

GWENNIE‘ JAMES

OBODY seemed to know where the lit-

tle dog had come from. Now, pup-
pies do not grow on rose—bushes, especially
at lonely lodges in the north woods, hemmed
in by a tangle of forests and accessible only
by launch. Nevertheless, this pretty setter-
puppy, unclaimed and unfed, strayed home-
less about the lodge and outlying cabins at
Pipestone, where I was spending the sum—
mer.

I claimed her. I had no business acquir-
ing a dog at that time, knowing full well
that my design for living was not adjusted
to a canine motif. Yet—still being very
much the child who had once carried home
every waif of a dog or cat in the neighbor-
hood—I coaxed the puppy to my cabin.
There, with much budgeting and economiz-
ing, we managed to eke out a slender exis-
tence. I ate a little less and enjoyed it
more, with a plate on the ﬂoor beside me
and a puppy gobbling therefrom.

I named her “Queen.” I have long bee-n
a disbeliever in trite and wornout names
for dogs or humans; but when your dog has
a beautiful black club right at the base of
her shaggy white back, what can you do
but call her Queen of Clubs?

And what can you do but paint your canoe
white, with a dark “Q” and a club on the
prow? Many a quiet paddle we had, Queen
sitting erect in the bow of the canoe, her
good Llewelyn blood obvious in every line
of her gay, proud head.

If it had not been for Queen, I should
never have seen the bear. I awoke at gray
dawn one morning to ﬁnd my dog standing
over me on the pillow, looking out the win-
dow and dancing with excitement. I looked,
too, and there was a great, shaggy black
bear, nosing about among the rocks back
of the cabin. We watched intently until he
ambled slowly off into the woods. I attained
great distinction when I told about that
bear; but it was not really my bear—it was
Queen’s.

She always saw the deer ﬁrst, too. When
I heard her bark and scramble to the win-
dow, I would follow her eager glance—and

 

 

“LOVAB LE AND INTELLIGENT”

Nov. 1931;

there among the trees would be a glint of
tawny red coat. I did manage to keep her
from discovering the porcupines, knowing
the disastrous possibilities in such an en-
counter. I found a porky in the top of
one of my birch trees one evening, making
a meal on the tender buds, and. all during
my supper I watched him, with Queen,
happily unconscious of his presence, doz-
ing beside me.

In the woods and on the lakes, I rarely
went anywhere that summer without my
little black—and-white companion at my
heels. So familiar a sight did she become
that when I appeared without her I was
invariably greeted with a reproachful,
“Where’s Queen?”

When early fall came, I knew that little
Queen, hardly a year old, was to have pup-
pies. On the day I intended to leave, when
my trunk was all packed, and a comfortable
crate prepared for my traveling companion,
I heard a familiar sound. . Wild geese go-
ing south! I dashed out to search the sky
for the birds, but could see nothing. I re-
turned to the cabin, and heard the sound
again—a faint mewing, like a kitten’s.
Thinking that Queen had caught some lit-
tle animal, I crawled under the steps to
investigate.

There indeed was Queen—with seven
puppies!

Departure, of course, had to be postponed.
When at last the little family was able to
travel, we set out for the city. All dur-
ing the long journey I wheedled my way in-
to baggage-cars and trunk-rooms to care
for the dogs. At intervals the conductor or
the porter would come to my seat in the
coach and report that “the family was do-
ing nicely.” .

I dare say that Queen is one of the ﬁrst
dogs that ever went to college. I had in-
tended to return to school that fall to com-
plete work on my degree, and Queen went
with me. We shared a large, sloping-
roofed attic room which we dubbed “The
Penthouse.” Queen waited quietly there
while I attended classes; and during my
free hours we took pleasant strolls across
the wooded campus or on the broad streets
of the quiet little town. The puppies came
to college, too, where I found homes for
them after a few months.

Queen is still with me. We have moved
about a great deal, but wherever I have
gone, she too has found a. corner. Lovable
and intelligent, she has all the qualities of
the true setter. It has not always been
easy or convenient to keep her near me;
yet when I see her run to me with her
shaggy tail waving, and feel her cold nose
in my palm, I know that she is a burden
I would not be without. When I picked
up the Queen of Clubs, that summer in
the north woods, I drew a high card!

Collie Eulogy

His courtly ruﬂ’, snow pure ’mid golden
tan,

His grandly feathered legs slenderly strong,

The broad and flowing billow of his breast,

His delicate ears and superﬁne long nose,

With that last triumph, his distinguished
tail,

In their collective glory spoke his race,

The flower of collie aristocracy.

SIR WILLIAM WATSON

 

 




 

‘AW

— .‘L—E Jun.~

 

 

 

Nov. 1934

Drought

JUDY VAN DER VEER

Always the staring sun,
And never any rain;
Leaves drop in the valley,

Grass dries on the plain.

No clouds but clouds of dust,
The river bed is dry;

Tortured wild with thirst
The killdeer cry.

Up and down the roads
meble the cattle cars,
With calves’ frightened faces
Pressed against the bars.

And by the water holes,
Sand-caked and dry,
The weary horses gather,

Waiting to die.

Fish in the Bible

JASPER B. SINCLAIR

HILE animals and birds, insects and

reptiles are freely mentioned in the
Bible, it may seem strange that no species
of ﬁsh, save only the whale, is mentioned
by name in either the Old or New Testa-
ment. Perhaps that is easily explainable
by the fact that the Holy Land is an in-
land area of mountains, plains and valleys.
With the exception of J oppa, the Israelites
held no possessions along the coast, part of
which belonged to the Phoenicians and the
rest to the Philistines.

The one river in the Holy Land is the
Jordan, and that is too rapid, too muddy
and too deep in its rocky bed to make ﬁsh-
ing either proﬁtable or enjoyable. The
smaller streams were either dry or rushing
torrents. Of its three lakes, the Dead Sea
was probably entirely devoid of all life, an-
imal and vegetable, so that the only ﬁshing
preserves were the Lake of Gennesaret and
the pools of Heshbon.

Beyond mention of the actual creation of
ﬁsh, their incidental mention in our Lord’s
history as an article of food, and the occu-
pation of ﬁshing by coastal tribes, the word
“ﬁsh” is only infrequently used in biblical
phraseology. Not a single species is named
if we except the whale, and even the whale
probably refers to man-eating sharks—
“sea monsters” as they were called in the
ancient Greek Hebrew tongues.

Mention is made of Tobit’s ﬁsh, but as
this denizen of the water leaped out of the
Tigris to attack a man, contrary to the
habits of any known ﬁsh, we may safely as-
sume it to have been a crocodile. Further
mention is made of the “purple ﬁsh,” but
biblical students have afﬁrmed that this
reference applies to a variety of shell-ﬁsh.
A valuable dye was said to have been ex-
tracted from the throat of a shell-ﬁsh in
those far-off days. The art of procuring
this dye was known only to the Phoeni-
cians, and has long since perished together
with the records of this race. It was so
costly as to be one of the peculiar insignia
of royalty or ofﬁcial distinction. Beyond
these fragmentary records, there is not a
single mention in the Bible of the hundreds
of varieties of ﬁsh known today.

OUR DUMB

ANIMALS

Page 165

Mountain Friends
BRUCE JENNINGS

 

 

Photo by H. Armstrong Roberts

LAST WINTER WAS A BAD ONE FOR THE DEER
WHO WILL FEED THEM NEXT WINTER?

HEN November storms rage among
W the higher peaks of the Rockies the

deer are driven down into the foot-
hills. With the ﬁrst severe storm they leave
the shelter of the pines and the ﬁr trees,
which will be half buried in snow before
the winter is over, and seek that lower
ground where the snow lies less deep and
where they can ﬁnd ample nourishment in
the foliage of cedar and scrub oak and sage
brush.

If there have been many rains during the
summer, then the deer will be well prepared
for winter, with many layers of fat upon
their smooth bodies. But if it has been a
dry summer, and there has been little
grass, and that lacking in nourishment,
then the deer will be thin and scrawny and
ill prepared for the rigors of winter.

A dry, hot summer and a hard winter
are a' deadly combination for the deer and
many of them perish in the snow before
spring opens up again. When we are driv-
ing our range cattle into the Utah moun-
tains in late spring, we sometimes come upon
their bodies, and we wonder that Nature
can be so cruel in her dealings with these
beautiful creatures.

Last winter was a bad one for the deer
and many died for want of food. I know of
two, however, that survived the ordeal

with little trouble, but they were unusually

fortunate.

The fortunate two were a doe and her
young fawn. I made their acquaintance one
morning last January when I had rldden
to the foot-hills to feed our range cattle.
Our feed yard is located against the hills
as a protection from the wind. There we
usually have several great stacks of alfalfa
hay and winter our cattle under long, low
sheds.

This morning a doe and her fawn were
standing outside the corral fence. The fawn
was in good condition, as it had been llvmg
on its mother’s milk, but the doe was so
thin that I could almost count her ribs
under the coat of brown. As I approached
they bounded away in the snow, but the
doe was so weak that she stumbled and
fell. She regained her feet in an instant
and was off in the brush, but I knew that
she could never survive the winter.

After I had ﬁnished ﬁlling the mangers
with hay and had warmed up the gasoline
engine and pumped the troughs full of
water for the cattle, I carried a little bundle
of feed to the spot where the deer had stood
in the snow outside our fences. I felt sure
that they would come back.

When I returned the next morning there
was not a single wisp of hay left. It was
evident that the doe and her fawn had
been there and gone, so I left another

 

 

 




 

 

    

Published monthly by the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelt

 

U. S.Trade Mark, RegiStered \

m 1868.AND FOR FORD/.0 n I
ANGELL NE
\30- T- ’EARS ED
1
B

The Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

The American Humane Education Society

The American Band of Mercy

I would not enter on my list of friends,
Though graced with polished manners and ﬁne sense,
Yet wanting sensibility, the man
Who needlessly sets foot upon a worm.
—COWPER

y to Animals,

     
  

GLORY 'ro
GOD,
PEACE on EARTH,
Kmousss, JUSTICE
AND MERCY TO“
EVERY leme
CREATURE.

    
    
 
    

46 Central Street, N orwood, Massachusetts

Entered as_s.econd-class.matter, June 29, 1917, at the Post Ofﬁce at Norwood, Mass, under the Act of March 3, 1879
Acceptance for mailing at spec1al rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 3, 1917, authorized, July 13, 1919

Boston Ofﬁce, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston,

Vol. 67

The months of strenuous work, the money
spent to win our Humane Trapping Law
through a remarkable campaign here in
Massachusetts—all will have been in vain,
except the publicity given the cruelty of
the steel trap, unless we win a NO vote
on the ballot, November 6.

As stated on this same page there is to
be a Referendum on the state ballot on
election day, November 6. It will be recog-
nized as Question No. 1. If you would save
many a wild dweller in ﬁeld and forest
from torture and death we beg you to take
the trouble to go to the polls and vote NO
on this question. Persuade your friends to
do the same.

If our Anti-Steel Trap Law is restored
to power by popular vote, November 6
(please read what is said about this on this
same page) will the State be overrun with
fur-bearing animals? What did the Chief
of the Biological Survey say last year?
“The- constant decline in the number of
these animals is directly attributed to over-
trapping.” How, then, can we need more
freedom in using the steel trap? He also
said that another cause of this decline was
“the staging of so-called ‘vermin’ cam—
paigns for the purpose of destroying fur-
bearing animals that obtain part of their
sustenance from birds classed as game.”
Who “stage” these “vermin campaigns,”
demanding the steel trap for “so-called ver-
min?” The trappers and the hunters.

We heartily commend to all interested in
the wild life of our land the work of the
Emergency Conservation Committee, 734
Lexington Avenue, New York. Write for
information concerning its ﬁne work.

Among the vital questions before the
American public today is “How to Save
from Extermination the Wild Life of Our
Country.” The criminal slaughter of our
wild fowl, the wide-spread destruction by
trapping of our fur-bearing animals, the
shooting of our game and insectivorous
birds by the hunters who are out to kill
whatever they see, call for a much more
vigorous Federal and State control.

November, 1934

Mass.

No. 11

To the Voters of Massachusetts
Vote

NO

On Election Day, November 6, on the Referendum on the Ballot to
Kill the “ So-called ” Local Option Trapping Law

N Tuesday, November 6, the voters of
Massachusetts will have an oppor-
tunity to say whether the cruel steel trap
outlawed, except under certain circum-
stances, in the Commonwealth by our
Humane Trapping Law, won four years
ago, shall remain under a state-wide ban,
or be restored to the legal use of those
communities that see ﬁt to authorize it.
A so-called “local option trapping law” was
enacted by the late Legislature in deﬁance
of the overwhelming popular vote of four
years ago by which our Humane Trapping
Act became a law.

The humane forces of the state have
now attached a referendum to this “local
option trapping law” for the purpose of
defeating it. This referendum, in the form
of a question, will read on the ballot
as Question No. 1:

Law Submitted Upon Referendum After
Passage

“Shall a law described as follows:—
This law amends General Laws, chapter
131, as previously amended, by repealing
section 105A thereof and adding thereto
sections 105B, 105C and 114A.” (Here
follows a lengthy legal description of the
law) “be approved?”

From the viewpoint of voters whose
hearts are attuned to the sufferings of
God’s lesser creatures through man’s
cruelty, the answer to that question must
be NO, and all such are urged to make
their cross in the space on the ballot, thus
designated:

 

Yes

No X

 

 

 

Put a cross in the NO square.

You cannot mistake the question. It is
question No. 1 on the ballot this year.
Now as to what it is all about——

In the state election of 1930, the animal
welfare organizations united in an initia-
tive proceeding to secure the adoption of
a law designed to stop cruelty in trapping.
This law was approved by 606,000 voters,
with a majority of 327,000, the largest
ever accorded a public question up to
that time.

Immediately, the gunners and trappers
organized to repeal the Humane Trapping
Law and, pushing a small group 7of farmers
to the front as stalking horses, have the
past three years incessantly fought to over-
throw this law.

The argument of the hunters and trap-
pers is that the cities, which gave the Hu-
mane Trapping Law a big majority four
years ago, have no right to dictate to the
country towns what type of trap they shall
use. The truth is that the Humane Trap-
ping Law was adopted as a moral issue by
a majority of all the voters of the state
and that no community or group of com-
munities should be permitted to nullify the
will of the majority on this or any other
moral question.

Certain facts stand out clearly in con-
nection with the bitter controversy that
has developed over the adoption of the
Humane Trapping Law. First, it is the
bird hunters who constitute nine-tenths of
the opposition to the Law. The trappers
and farmers are a negligible factor. What
the gunners chieﬂy fear is that the Hu-
mane Trapping Law is an entering wedge
in a scheme to abolish, or at least curtail,
the killing privileges they now enjoy. The

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 42

University Film Foundation connected with
Harvard. It is called, “On Behalf of Ani-
mals,” and centers in the work of our
Animal Hospital, with pleasing scenes of
the Society’s Farm at Methuen. It repre—
sents the latest development in ﬁlm photo-
graphy and is available both in the regular,
35 mm., and the small, 16 mm., size. Very
favorable arrangements are made for those
wishing to show it in schools or before adult
organizations. Our original ﬁlm, “The Bell
of Atri,” continues to be in demand, there
having been 41 rentals in various parts of
the country during the year and copies of
the ﬁlm at different times have been sold
in this country and abroad.

Legislation

We are deeply interested in two bills that
are before our Legislature. One, if it be-
comes law, will stop the practice in Massa-
chusetts of showing horses at horse-shows
Whose tails have been either set up or
docked. The other will stop the sufferings
of many of the animals kept at roadside
gasoline and lunch places.

Finances

Through the loyalty and generosity of
our members and friends we have gone
through the year without the necessity of
cutting out any of our activities. To these
dear helpers we are deeply grateful. Some
have been able to give out of a more or less
abundance, and many only at the cost of
much self-denial and sacriﬁce. To us, each
gift has seemed like a sacred trust to be

administered with conscientious care and
ﬁdelity.

The Treasurer’s Report

Current expenses for the year, including
depreciation and replacement, were $283,-
160.73, current receipts, $262,258.66—deﬁcit,
$20,902.07. This deﬁcit we were, fortun-
ately, able to take care of by drawing upon

certain legacies designated for our current
work.

The Press

How great our debt to the press of the
Commonwealth we shall never know. We
do know it is a large one, for many col-
umns of publicity have been freely given
to.our work and new friends are constantly
being won through such knowledge. of the

Societies as comes to them through the
press.

 

HORSES

A PASTURE AT TEE REsT FARM FOR

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

THE WORK OF THE SOCIETY’S
AGENTS

During 1933

Miles traveled ............... 161,184
Complaints investigated ....... 5,534
Animals examined in investiga-

tions .................... 69,453
Horses taken from work ...... 275
Horses humanely put to sleep . . 596
Other animals humanely put to

sleep ..................... 14,710
Animals inspected at stockyards

and abattoirs .............. 485,532
Injured or sick animals at stock-

yards and abattoirs humanely

put to sleep ............... 222
Horses watered on Boston Streets 25,281
Prosecutions ................ 1 1 9
Convictions ................. 109

Ambulance Trips

Horse ambulances ............ 76
Small animal ambulances ..... 5,633

THE ANGELL MEMORIAL ANIMAL
HOSPITAL

Including Springﬁeld Branch
During 1933

 

Small animals treated ........ 8,539
Large animals ............... 48
Birds ...................... 65
Cases entered in Hospital ..... 8,652
Dispensary Cases
Small animals treated ........ 28,625
Large animals .............. 33
Birds ...................... 474
Treated by correspondence . . . . 514
Total treated in Dispensary 29,132
Operations ................. 1 1 ,950
Total animals and birds treated
last year ................. 37,784
Summary
Cases in Hospital since opened, ,
March 1, 1915 ............ 116,556
Cases in Dispensary since March
1, 1915 .................. 267,249
Total ................... 383,805

In making your will, please remember
the Massachusetts Society for the Preven-
tion of Cruelty to Animals.

PRESIDENT ROWLEY AND-HIS SADDLE
HORSE, “CHICO”

 

M ar. 1934

Springﬁeld, Methuen and Hyannis
Though the following ﬁgures are. in-
cluded in those given above, we give them
in detail for the Springﬁeld Branch,
Methuen, and Hyannis (Cape God).

Our Springﬁeld Report

Cases Investigated ........... 719
Animals Inspected ........... 8,508
Horses taken from work, being

unﬁt for service ........... 9
Horses humanely destroyed . . . . 21
Cases prosecuted for willful acts

of cruelty ................ 48
Cases prosecuted and convicted 46
Injured and debilitated cows and

calves destroyed ....... _ . . . 16
Small animals humanely de-

stroyed .................. 3,067
Homes found for small animals 661
Birds humanely destroyed ..... 76
Birds released ............... 23
Ambulance calls for small ani-

mals .................... 1,269
Miles traveled in investigations 20,643
Dispensary cases ............ 2,875
Hospital cases ............... 945
Operations .................. 1,253
Cremations ................. 22

Methuen Rest Farm and Shelter

Small animals called for or re-

ceived .................... 2,121
Ambulance calls ............. 1,038
Complaints investigated ...... 159
Animals inspected ........... 10,439
Poultry inspected ............ 102,432
Horses taken from work ...... 26
Horses humanely put to sleep . . 153
Cows humanely put to sleep . . . 5
Hogs humanely put to sleep . . . 3
Average number horses at Farm

per month ................ 32 Eé
Miles traveled ............... 15,086

Cape Cod District

Cases investigated ........... 789
Animals inspected ........... 1,339
Horses put to sleep ........ ,. . 1
Prosecutions ................ 3
Convictions ................. 3
Small animals put to sleep . . . . 711
Homes found for small animals 57
Ambulance calls for small ani-

mals .- .................... ' 493
Miles traveled in investigations 15,908
Humane talks ............... 5

 

 

 

 




