 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 142

@119 Iﬁanh nf £11112er

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

E. A. MARYOTT, State Organizer
PLEDGE

I will try to be kind to all living creatures and
try to protect the-m from cruel usage.

The American Humane Education Society will send
to every person who forms a Band of Mercy of thirty
members, and sends the name chosen for the Band
and the name and post-ofﬁce address of the presi-
dent who has been duly elected, special Band of
Mercy literature and a gilt badge for the president.
See inside front cover for prices of literature and
Band of Mercy Supplies.

NEW BAND OF MERCY

One new Band of Mercy was reported
during July. This was in Massachusetts.

Total number of Bands of Mercy organ-
ized by Parent American Society, 224,908.

From Across the Sea

VERY attractive report has been re-

ceived from the Humane Education So-
ciety of 80 Mosley St., Manchester, England,
of which George Arliss is the president. The
Society appeals to all who love children and
animals to assist them in their campaign
concerning worn-out horses, caged wild
birds, pit ponies, humane dress and diet,
warfare-poison gas, cruel sports and vivi-
section, performing animals, the steel-
toothed trap, protection of the countryside
and things of beauty, and the development
of kindliness and harmony‘in life. “We
have succeeded,” says the report, “in gain-
ing the active co-operation of large num-
bers of teachers, journalists, writers, speak-
ers and welfare workers.” Among almost
countless activities the Humane Education
Society publishes the unique and valuable
little monthly journal, The Little Animals’
Friend. The Society also sponsors the or-
ganization of “Circles” or “Groups,” com-
posed of teachers, parents and children,
with a view to building up practical ideas
of kinship, kindliness, character, and a love
of the beautiful.

 

A CONTENTED CAT

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

A Feline Social Worker

FLORENCE HULL

PROUD, melancholy ﬁgure with long-

haired gray coat, great smoky eyes,
mysterious and observant, “Moumoutte,”
sitting on her sweeping tail on the doorstep,
gave me, the strange woman, one suspicious
glance, then marched off. I like cats and at
home never had any trouble to make them
like me. But French cats seemed different.
No inducement I could make prevailed upon
old Moumoutte to be friendly. She must
have resented the idea of a boarder in the
reserved old household.

But I saw soon that Moumoutte was a
character. My window commanded a view
of the garden, and I often saw her sitting
on the stoop, in her peculiar pose of aloof-
ness, surrounded by a half circle of cats,
their mouths widely open to utter howls of
musical agony which they no doubt meant
for a serenade. The noise got unbearable,
so I once raised my window and started
things in the shape of hair-brushes, slippers
and cushions, with the result of dispersing
the crowd. But old Moumoutte never budged.
Disdainful and indifferent, she sat still, her
stiff form outlined in the moonlight, like the
sphynx. But although the serenades ceased
Moumoutte henceforth showed increased
hostility toward me, even snarling when I
came in her sight. Then something remark-
able happened. The Quatorze juillet came.
From early afternoon the street resounded
with happy confusion, drums, trumpets,
confetti throwing, then, at dark, ﬁreworks.
Moumoutte, under the porch, waited till this
human frenzy should be over. Suddenly a
frightened kitten rushed among us, made
for our apricot tree and shinned up to the
very top branch, where she clung desper-
ately, till it gave away and she fell about
twenty feet down upon the concrete paved
walk. I took up the piteously mewing little
thing and found that its worst hurt was a
broken leg, which I bound up with my
handkerchief, wet with cold water. Hearing
a peculiar sound I looked down and saw that
old Moumoutte had joined the hospital force.
When I relinquished
the kitten she bent,
took it in her mouth
and disappeared with
it in the direction of
the garage. The door
was locked but a thick
clump of bougainvillias
at the side made a cozy
hiding place and there
Moumoutte installed
herself with her
charge. I took it a
saucer of milk daily,
and diligently mas-
saged by her intelligent
old nurse the little
thing was duly restored
to health. But now
came the queer result
of my attention to the
kitten. Old Moumoutte
ceased to look on me
with hostility and even
made overtures of

friendship. The deep
sensibility in t h o s e
smoky eyes was be-

Sept. 1937

yond my penetrating, but stupidly human as
I was, I understood that since I had evinced
kindness toward one of her race when in
distress the wise old creature adopted me as
a possible aid in a singular work she had
been carrying on alone.

The cured kitten took up its abode with
the family. It was an ordinary little per-
sonage of just average intelligence. But
as I, a newspaper reporter keen after news,
often came and went late at night I had an
opportunity to see more of what went on
in our garden than my old friends and en-
tertainers. And it was with great interest
that I began to observe odd conduct on the
part of old Moumoutte. She seemed to be
lacking in some of the instincts of her
species but her humanitarian impulses, if
one may so term them, were unusual and
extraordinary. She had taken up the task
of cat sister of charity, or social worker.

I was returning from Paris late one night,
when, as I softly used my key on the gate
lock, a cat with something odd in its mouth
ran between me and the door and deposited
at my feet a mewing kitten.

“Mon dieu, Moumoutte, what have you
there?”

“Help!” cried Moumoutte.

It was another case for bandaging and I
responded, wondering if it was establishing
a precedent. Sure enough, a couple of
nights afterward Moumoutte presented me
with another chance to make myself useful.
She appeared to have made ofﬁcial connec-
tion with the various “cat alleys” in the
neighborhood, and to have learned its secret
woes—and vices. She had become a “kittens’
aid” all by herself, but probably ﬁnding her
mission too arduous alone, wished to take
me in as helper. Amusedly, I let her associ-
ate me with her very odd occupation, which
appeared to be the civilizing and reclaiming
from savagery various neglected, wild speci-
mens of her race, existing in a state of
hungry madness.

We helped our extraordinary Samaritan in
her mission by taking in, feeding and com-
forting perhaps a score of cats that summer
I spent in the pretty Parisian suburb. Mou-
moutte was the most remarkable of the many
odd cats I have known, and particularly
queer in one trait; she was a persistent, ob-
stinate spinster. I am sure she had offers, for
she was very handsOme—but nothing could
persuade her to become a mother. She had
adopted all catdom as her ﬁeld and was cer-
tainly a useful friend of her down—trodden
sisters and brothers. A social worker from
instinct, Moumoutte lived in stately solitude
her gentle life; little understood or appreci-
ated by the dull humans who deemed her
for the most part, shy and sullen. Perhaps
I might have been guilty of doing her this
injustice, myself, had not accident revealed
to me her real nature. This and other ex-
periences have convinced me that most hu-
man traits have their prototypes in our
dumb friends.

English sparrows sometimes raise as
many as four or ﬁve broods of young 1n one
season.

A frog can change his spots. The color
pattern is not always the same on a glven
frog.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 166

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Sky Pilgrims

MAMIE REYNOLDS

INTER was at hand and the lakes,
Wand pools of the far North were re-

ceiving their covering of ice. Water~
fowls were making ready for their long ﬂight
to the South. Trumpeter swans, large and
pure white; Ross’ geese, small and also
pure white with black ﬂight feathers; teals,
blue-winged, green—winged and cinnamon;
the deep—diving rosybill; small, tree-roosting
bufﬂeheads; and small, game-ﬁghting rud-
dies; all were ready for this long, long
ﬂight.

Soon they got into the air and with them
went Canada geese, canvas-back ducks, red-
heads, scaup, goldeneyes and others.

Flying through the highest depths of sky,
and led by Canada geese in V formation,
the waterfowl are soon in the wake of a
group of migrating hawks. Sharp-shinned
hawks, thirteen inches long with upper
parts a slaty gray and tails three inches
longer than their wing tips with white and
black streaked throats; Cooper’s hawks,
nineteen inches long, darker than the
sharp-shinned and having rounded tail
feathers. Small, but powerful, these Coop—
ers are swift ﬂying, blood-thirsty pirates,
in spite of their beautiful coloring.

As the waterfowl gain on the hawks, the
hawks suddenly go higher so the waterfowl
may ﬂy beneath them. And as the water-
fowl ﬂy ahead, the hawks allow them to
pass unmolested, for these hawks are mi-
grating, not hunting!

After several days and nights of ﬂying,
something far below attracts the attention
of the waterfowl.

Below is a large lake, surrounded by a
very high wire fence. Within this enclosure
are hundreds of other waterfowl, “quack-
ing” and “calling” while they swim and eat.

The waterfowl begin describing a large
circle, then a smaller circle, and then a
still smaller one.

While the waterfowl were ﬂying lower
and lower, a ﬂock of Golden plovers, got
ahead of them. They, too, had nested in the
Arctic region and were now on their trip
to South America. During their ﬂight of
twenty-ﬁve hundred miles, they will shed

 

WISCONSIN DENTIST USES UNIQUE DEVICE TO FEED BABY

and take on an entirely different color.
They are now black of breasts and sides,
with the brown feathers of their backs and
crowns tipped with yellow. However, some
of them have already begun the moulting
process and their color is becoming gray-
ish with a few yellow—tinted feathers here
and there. Finally their color will become a
shade of gray!

As the plovers go ahead toward ”the
South, the waterfowl begin alighting in the
huge lake beneath them. Here in this lake
and along its margin various kinds of aquat-
ic foods have been planted. Here are
white water lilies, growing in the shallow
water; banana water lilies; spatterdock,
whose seed is relished by all waterfowl;
American lotus with its magniﬁcent pale
yellow ﬂowers; wild celery, especially fa-
vored by canvasbacks; wampee duck corn;
duck potatoes and other foods.

The waterfowl remain here in the “sanc-
tuary” or “refuge” for several days. They
are protected and well fed. But a sudden
change in the weather warns them that
freezing time is at hand. So once again
they get into the air.

Hardly have the waterfowl started South
once more, before they are ﬂying side by
side with thousands of other birds. But
these birds are very small indeed. They are
ruby-throated humming birds, the smallest
of birds, yet among the swiftest ﬂyers.
Now they seem to‘be going forward with
the speed of riﬂe balls, buzzing on and on,
up and down, always headed toward the
Southland. They will ﬂy straight across the
seven hundred miles of the Gulf of Mexico
and Spend the winter in Panama or some
of the countries of South America.

The waterfowl also continue their jour-
ney southward and as one stands and
watches them fade from sight into the
far-off heavens, he is reminded of Bryant’s
lines:

“Thoa’rt gone, the abyss of heaven
Hath swallowed up thy fleeting form; yet
on my heart ..
Deeply hath sunk the lesson thou hast given,
And shall not soon depart.”

 

RACCOONS WHOSE MOTHER WAS KILLED

Nov. 1937
Which Had the Last Word?

A. GRACE GRAY

EISSONIER, famous French artist of

the nineteenth century, had a dog of
which he was exceedingly fond. One day
the animal broke one of his legs and
Meissonier, agonized by such a misfortune
to his beloved pet, determined to entrust
his chances of recovery to no other than
the great Paris surgeon Nelaton. So he
telegraphed in hot haste to the eminent
doctor, urging him to come at once to his
residence at Bougival, but not venturing to
declare the real cause of his panic. Nelaton,
thinking that one of the artist’s family
must be in need of him, was not long in
arriving. Meissonier met him in the draw-
ing-room and frantically plunged into con-
versation with him on various topics. He
who had painted many battles and won
many trophies knew not how to face this
present aﬂ’air! At length Nelaton, real-
izing the value of his own time, asked to

- see the patient and the embarrassed artist

requested a servant to bring him in. Howl-
ing with pain the wounded beast was borne
into the room upon a magniﬁcent cushion.
Whereupon Meissonier, forgetting all else,
cried out beseechingly, “Save him, illustri-
ous master! Save him!”

Nelaton, prince of surgical science as
he was, employed all his skill in dressing
the fracture and the animal swiftly re-
covered. The artist shortly afterwards
wrote to the great man, expressing his un-
dying gratitude for his kindness and re-
questing the amount of his bill. Nelaton
sent a courteous reply, saying that when
Meissonier next came to Paris he could
call upon him and there they could settle
the debt. This Meissonier soon did and was
producing his pocket-book crammed with
banknotes when Nelaton exclaimed, “Stop,
Sir! You are a painter, are you not?”
When the other answered afﬁrmatively the
surgeon went on, “Well, just put a coat of
gray paint on those two panels which the
cabinet makers have ﬁnished, and we’ll call
the debt settled!”

It was indeed a delicate revenge, and one
which Meissonier appreciated to the full.
He went at once to work and at the end of
a few days had, with amazing dexterity,
painted two of his most exquisite pictures
on the panels!

You can make kindness a habit—if you
want to.

Orphans of the Storm

BERNARD L. KOBEL

Yes, we may truly say that these baby
raccoons are “orphans of the storm” be-
cause their mother was killed when a wind-
storm blew down the tree which had been
their home.

They were made “at home” by a dentist,
Dr. Walter F. Neuschafer, of Fremont,
Wisconsin. At ﬁrst he fed them by means
of medicine droppers but as they grew it
proved to be too much of a task, so he ar-
ranged these bottles in a rack and now,
whenever the little fellows feel hungry,
they make their way to their bottles. Need-
less to say, they are getting fat and “roly-
poly” and enjoy themselves very much.

 

«--.~ _..-.......~.. . .




 

 

 

 

 

M ay, 1937

Joyful Shooting

GEORGE A . MAURER

I love to shoot both bird and beast,
The wild kind and the tame;
And never do I feel the least
Of guilt, remorse or shame.

The pheasant and the partridge, yes,
The blackcock, grouse and duck;
But not content on this “game” class

Am I to try my luck.

The brown thrush in the bushes low,
The blue jag in a tree,

The whip-poor-will, the big black crow,
The loon and chickadee;

The cardinal of brilliant hue,
The robin red of breast,
The oriole and starling, too,
The magpie full of zest;

The rabbit, he of lengthy ear,
Alert as he can be;

The fawn, the doc or antlered deer
(What matters which to me?) ;

The rooster at his morning call,
The dog, cat, cow or horse;

I love to shoot them, one and all——
With camera, of course!

Now that the birds can ﬁnd their own
food, let us not forget to extend to them
our best protection.

A Great Bird Sanctuary

Everybody knows of the wonderful bird
refuge conducted by Jack Miner, a picture
of which we present on this page. “It is no
exaggeration to say that the sanctuary of
Jack Miner at Kingsville is world famous,”
says the Toronto Globe. From all quarters
of this continent and from the lands beyond
the sea visitors each year make a pilgrimage
to this shrine to view a work the fame of
which has traveled far and wide. Mr. Miner
is today one of the great naturalists of the
world, and has been the means of instilling
in countless young hearts a deep and lasting
love of birds and all the wild things of
nature. If you wish to learn more of this
marvelous work, write for a free 16-page
booklet, well illustrated, which gives full
explanation, to The Jack Miner Migratory
Bird Foundation, Inc., Kingsville, Ontario,
Canada.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Our Butcher Birds

ALVIN M. PETERSON

ONE birds about the size of the rob-

in are often seen in country districts
in the spring, perched on posts, poles,
wires, and the bare branches of trees. The
birds have gray backs, white under‘parts,
black bars on the sides of their heads,
and their wings are black but brightened
with white. They have hooked beaks and
may at once be identified as shrikes or
butcher birds, of which we have two rath—
er common species, the northern and log—
gerhead shrikes.

Shrikes resemble the mockingbird in
some ways, or at least may be mistaken
for mockingbirds if seen hazily or from a
distance. Both have gray, black and white
plumage, and both have white about their
wings and tails, where it shows up best
when they are flying. However, the mock-
ingbird is darker on the back and under-
neath than the shrike, it lacks the black
bar on the face, and its head and beak
resemble those of its cousin, the catbird.

A shrike also may easily be known by
its manner of flying, for there is a char—
acteristic weaving of black and white
caused by the moving wings, much like
that noticed when mockingbirds and rose-
breasted grosbeaks ﬂy. First the white
shows, then it does not. The shrike ﬂaps
its wings, then holds them still for a mo-
ment, as if resting, then flaps them again.
It usually flies near the ground, but when
it wishes to stop, it bounds quickly upward
and perches much farther from the ground
than you expect it to.

Shrikes live on insects, beetles, mice,
small birds and other similar foods, being
known as butcher birds because of their
fondness for all kinds of meat, both fresh
and cured. They are thrifty birds and
often store food for future use, in this be—
ing like the nuthatch, blue jay, red-headed
woodpecker and some other birds. Birds,
mice, insects and other small creatures are
caught, killed and then hidden behind splint-
ers, in cracks and crevices, or impaled on
thorns and barbs. If you have ever found
a bird, mouse or large insect wedged in
a crotch, tucked behind a splinter or im—
paled on a barb, you no doubt have seen
a shrike’s butcher shop or larder.

The northern shrike nests far to the
north of us, and is only to be seen in the
autumn, winter and early spring, since it
then visits the United States. It is slightly

Page 71

larger than the loggerhead shrike, has the
same black, gray and white plumage and
hooked beak, but also has indistinct wavy
bars on its breast. The loggerhead shrike
winters in the South, but nests as far
north as southern Canada. As a rule, the
shrikes we see during the colder months
of the year are northern shrikes, and those
we see during the warmer months are log—
gerhead shrikes, unless we live along the
Gulf Coast, where the loggerhead winters.

Shrikes are considered cruel and de-
structive birds by many people, mainly be—
cause they kill small song birds. The fact
that they sometimes impale the bodies of
their little victims on thorns and barbs
does not help their reputation any. Shrikes
are cruel birds in a way, nevertheless it
should be remembered that they kill other
small creatures purely for food, and that
they are on the whole useful birds because
of the mice and insects they destroy.
Though they sometimes take pretty and
useful song birds, they also kill many Eng—
lish sparrows, which in many places are
considered pests. Shrikes regularly prey on
English sparrows in some places and are

.of help to us in reducing their numbers.

The writer was once walking along a
railroad track, when he saw a shrike fly
from the ground in a deep, marshy ravine.
The bird flew just above the tops of the
bushes, and then, in true shrike style,
bounded upward and settled on the top of
a telegraph pole. It was carrying some—
thing large, which proved to be a mouse.
It had been mouse hunting in the- ravine
and had been successful in finding and
catching one. Another time he saw a
shrike take after a bluebird. The race was
nip and tuck for a time, but the bluebird
seemed to know what to do, for it turned
sharply once and then almost immediately
a second time and forced the shrike to
give up the chase. The shrike ﬂew to
the top of a pole and thence resumed its
search for insects, mice and birds, perhaps.

Shrikes build snug, warm nests for their
eggs and little ones, making them mainly
of twigs, rootlets, grass, string and feath-
ers. The northern shrike is said to sing
sweetly during its mating and nesting
season. As a rule, however, shrikes are
among the quietest of birds. You may see
hundreds of them when they are migrating
in the spring, but seldom, if ever, will you
hear one make a sound. They are true
hunters and find it of much help to keep
close watch over their tongues.

 

ONE CORNER OF ONE OF THE PONDS ON THE JACK MINER BIRD SANCTUARY, KINGSVILLE, ONTARIO

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

Page 190
@112 want! of merrg

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

E. A. MARYOTT, State Organizer
PLEDGE

I will try to be kind to all living creatures and
try to protect them from cruel usage.

The American Humane Education Society will send
to every person who forms a Band of Mercy of thirty
members, and sends the name chosen for the Band
and the name and post-oﬂ‘ice address of the presi-
dent who has been duly elected, special Band of
Mercy literature and a gilt badge for the president.
See inside front cover for prices of literature and
Band of Mercy Supplies.

NEW BANDS OF MERCY

Four hundred and sixty-four new Bands
of Mercy were reported during October. Of
these, there were 124 in South Carolina, 88
in Illinois, 83 in Maine, 46 in Pennsylvania,
38 in Florida, 30 in Georgia, 25 in Virginia,
12 in Texas, six in New York, ﬁve in Ten-
nessee, two each in Massachusetts and
North Carolina, and one each in Michigan,
Missouri and Wisconsin.

Total number Bands of Mercy organ-
ized by Parent American Society, 225,711.

Ducks Outwit Hunters

FERN BERRY

ANY people doubt that wild animals

and birds have reasoning powers. That
they do have powers of instinct that
aid them in seeking safety is shown by
this true incident. Two rather large lakes
are connected by a canal only. One lake lies
inside a fair-sized little city while the
larger lake is outside the city limits. The
lake inside the city limits is protected from
all duck shooting at any time. At all seasons
of the year wild duck may be seen on this
lake and they seem tame and unafraid.

On the larger lake, when the season for
shooting is closed, the ducks are also plenti—
ful. However, at the ﬁrst crack of the
hunter’s gun most of the ducks ﬂy to the
protected area, where they feed with the
full assurance that they are protected from
the guns, much to the consternation of the
hunters.

FEEDING “JILL” HER BREAKFAST

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Dec. 1937

 

BAND OF MERCY IN TURKS ISLAND, BRITISH WEST INDIES

 

 

Long-range Hearing

MYRON A. PATCH

HAVE always been fond of pets, and
when I took up my residence on a home—
stead claim, my pet dog “Tiger” was with

me. Tiger was a farm dog of the collie
breed. He was major-domo of the whole
place. And what he did not know about

it was not worth speaking of.

When, after two years’ residence on the
place, my mother and sister from “Old
Virginia” came to live with me, Tiger was
the proudest of dogs, as their guard, cham-
pion and worshipper. .

Two years later they went back on a
visit to the “Old Dominion” and Tiger was
disconsolate. Sickness in the old home de—
layed their return, and they were absent
something over three months.

When I received a letter, stating that they
were starting on their way back, I showed
it to Tiger, and told him that they were
coming, and I am certain, in my own mind,
that he understood.

The train from the East came in at about
9 RM. The ﬁrst night I went to meet it
they did not come, as there had been some
delay on the road. The second night they
did come, and after I had got them and
their baggage on board the wagon, we
started for home.

But we had barely left the business part
of the town when, out of the darkness

ahead, came a racing dog, who made no

pause for me to stop the wagon, but left
the ground in a wild ﬂying leap, that landed
him just in front of the back seat. And it
seemed as if he were trying to eat up those
two women. He would lick the face of ﬁrst
one and then the other; then draw back and
look them over as if he were asking in dog
language, “Is it really you?”

They made room for him on the seat
between them, and he rode home with their
arms around him—the happiest dog for
that night, it is safe to say, in eastern
Oregon.

Now, how did he know that they were
there? The only reasonable explanation is
that, after we had left the noise and con-
fusion of the railway depot, he had heard
us talking, recognized their voices, and
came—a distance of a mile and a half—as
fast as his legs would carry him.

From an Island in the Sea

This picture is of _a Band of Mercy or-
ganized by Mrs. C. Edward Frith in Turks
Island, B. W. I. Running across the group
were the words, in different colors, “Be Kind
to Animals.” This work in the island we
have been glad to have some part in
through correspondence with Mrs. Frith
and literature sent. One can hardly imag-
ine what it has meant to all these children
to become members of such a humane group.

My Praying Dog
MINNA IRVING

ERMANY had a talking dog. When I

was a little girl I had a praying dog.
She was a mongrel, a little larger than a
fox-terrier with a fox—terrier’s slim beauti-
ful head, and large intelligent brown eyes.
Her body was black, her legs and muzzle
tan.

About eight o’clock in the evening my
father would say: “ ‘Josie,’ its time to say
your prayers.” '

She would at once trot over to a little
bench, sit down, cross her front paws and
drop her head upon them in the attitude of
prayer. She would remain in that position
until my father said: “Josie, you have
prayed enough, you are good enough now.”

She would immediately rise and become
her playful self again.

We never tried to teach her human
speech, but she understood it, not by inﬂec-
tion as most dogs do, but by the words. My
mother would say in an ordinary conversa-
tional tone: “I think a cat has found J osie’s
bones.”

Josie would then go to the door, frantic
to be let out. She had bones buried all over
the place, and would dig each one up and
inter it in a different spot. But if my
mother made the remark about the bones
while Josie was “praying” she would not
stir until my father told her that she had
prayed enough.

She died when she was twelve years old
and my father passed away at the same
time. I like to think that the faithful dog
went with him to the spirit land.

May every boy and girl who reads this
page have the merriest Christmas ever!

 




 

Mar.193’7 .OUR DUMB

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

 
 

(7 'A , -
./1 \Lj/Kgﬂ C: a o
-1 a ‘§/|\\ */ .11

, u/ \

u n, t... :1
l'\\\\h"

U
‘ . 3w“) ‘ 7
‘l A41“ AM.“ I A‘l; \

ANIMALS

 

 

M
0. f," (

 

 

n
‘

My Jolly Chickadee

AGNES S. J. POWERS

When skies are gray and winds are chill
And all the land is bleak,

I need not step outside my yard
Warm fellowship to seek;

A feathered mite. black, gray and white,
Greets me so neighborly,

And- flirts his tail. and quirks 'his head——
My jolly Chickadee.

He sits in my syringa—bush
While I hang out the clothes,

And tells me most delightful yarns,
And flits right by my nose.

I don’t believe one half he says
And yet he cheers me so

I scarce could live the winter through
Without this insect foe.

He brazenly runs on with such
Inconsequential chat,

N o matter of importance, but
A bit of this and that.

And I am charmed away from work
And hang upon his word.—

My hearty little chickadee,
The w'insomest of birds.

Gonies of Goncyville

N the middle of the Paciﬁc Ocean there is a little island
called Midway Island, says a writer in the Junior Catholic
Messenger. We read about it several weeks ago. It is one
of the islands where the Pacific clipper planes stop. The
men who run the air line have built a hotel there. The pas-
sengers from the airplanes stop there for the night. Then
they ﬂy on the next day.

On this island lives a strange kind of bird called a gony.
Baby gonies are the most obedient children in the world.
When they are hatched from the eggs, Mamma Gony tells
them not to leave the nest for four months. (This seems
to be an old gony custom.) Baby gonies never disobey. The
men who worked on this island, getting it ready for‘the
clipper planes, soon discovered this. The baby gonies would
not move out of the way of their tractors. The men had to
pick them up so they would not be run over. As soon as the
tractors passed by, however, the gonies went right back
again. Often the tractors destroyed the nests. This did not
bother the little gonies, however. They went right back to
the spot where the nests used to be. There they sat until
Mamma Gony said, “Your four months are over. You may
go now.”

We trust that all our young friends, including members of
the Band of Mercy everywhere, will observe BE KIND TO
ANIMALS WEEK (April 11-17) by doing special acts of
kindness to animals in the home or elsewhere.

.- ‘ ... , —-- —— f...
‘ u. \‘adll' mango ? , ' "w. ._
. ‘I -~ .
‘ -_ . . .u. " ‘ I. .lll'l , . ..

 

1
v

Uses Dog as Errand Boy

RED R. SULLIVAN, 151 Burrill Street, Swampscott,
Massachusetts, has an eight—year-old collie, “Rex,” that
for the last three years hasn’t missed a day in trotting to the
corner drugstore an eighth of a mile away, to get the evening

paper. Rex will run to Bickford’s drugstore at the corner of
Paradise Road and Burrill Street and bark at the door until the
clerk places the paper in his mouth. He will then dash full
speed for home and woe be to anyone who tries to stop him.
Arriving at his home he will scratch the door until someone
opens it for him. Every Saturday the money is placed in a
paper bag and Rex carries it faithfully to the store.

There have been occasions through the day when Mrs.
Sullivan needed some little article from the drugstore. She
would write a note, place it in a paper bag and Rex would
take it to the store and bring home the article wanted.

The photograph shows Rex with the newspaper in his mouth
on the way home.

Answers to “How Many Birds in the Tree?” in last month’s
puzzle. (The numbers after each name‘indicate on which
squares the name starts and ﬁnishes.)

Linnet (2—24) G-annet (12-24)
Wren (3-16) Quail (13-2)
Falcon (4-22) Hawk (15-8)
Finch (4-28) Erne (17-21)
Crane (5—17) Shrike (20-1)
Eagle (6-17) Cock (23-34)
Eaglet (6-24) Cuckoo (23—36)
Chat (23-32) Tern (24-16)

Cockatoo (23-27
Goose (25-21)
Grouse (25-21)
Teal (24—18)
Hen (28-22)
Rock (31-34)
Coot (35-24)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




Feb.193’7 OUR DUMB

A Friend to Animals

ANIMALS PageQS’

 

MRS. PAUL RITTENHOUSE
Director of National Girl Scouts, Inc.
Photograph from RUTH ALEXANDER NICHOLS

HAT do we mean when we tell chil-
W drenr that they must “be kind to ani—

mals”? And how can we make that
somewhat diffuse admonition real and im—
portant to young people?

Any organization that works or plays
with young people faces those questions.
The Girl Scouts are trying to ﬁnd a satis—
factory approach to the problem and an
effective way of applying it.

In the ﬁrst place the Girl Scouts feel that
“being kind to animals” means a great deal
more than merely liking to look at animals,
or giving them carrots, or petting them
gently. Real kindness is based on genuine
and sympathetic understanding of the life—
habits of the animals in the child’s environ-
ment. How then can we create this under-
standing?

This proves itself to be a three—fold task.
The ﬁrst part of the task is the insurance
of kindliness toward animals in the group
code. Most children will readily accept the
standards of their group; the desire to be
“like the rest of the kids” is perhaps one of
the most powerful motive forces among
children. Therefore, if the “rest of the
kids” accept as a part of their code the idea
that they should be kind to animals, suc—
cessive individuals will accept the idea with-
out question. For that reason one of the
ten fundamental Girl Scout laws is that “A
Girl Scout is a friend to animals”: she is
kind to all animals and tries to protect them
from neglect and cruelty.

This is the ﬁrst step. Sympathetic under—
standing -of animals must be added to that
basic verbal expression of standards if the
ideal is to be accomplished. Therefore the
Girl Scouts are helped to observe and study
the birds and animals with which they come
in contact. There are Animal Finder and
Bird Finder badges for the girls who wish
to make a detailed study of these fields, but
interest in and observation of animals is an
important part of the Girl Scout program
for all ‘the girls. Every hike, every camp-
ing trip, every walk to and from school
brings new material for discussion and
study, and each individual channel widens
out into the broader stream of general in-
terest in animals. The chance discovery of
an abandoned oriole’s nest may easily lead
to a discussion and examination of other
local birds and their nesting habits, a visit
to a natural history museum, the construc-
tion of a bird feeding-station. The knowl—
edge which is accumulated in these ways,
about the deﬁnite habits, needs, and per—
sonalities of the animals under observation,
creates a feeling of what we may call “con-
structive kindness” toward animals on the
part of the girls of the troop or patrol.

This growing knowledge and feeling of
kindness naturally leads to the third step in
the process, that of actual contact with, and
care of, animals. As the girls’ interest in
animals grows they inevitably adopt pets of
various kinds. Some troops acquire stray
dogs or cats which become beloved parts of
the troop life, the privilege of caring for

 

them carefully allot-
ted; some camping
groups make friends
of their wild/ neigh—
bors, chipmunks, rab-
bits, squirrels, deer,
and even occasional
bears. Individual girls
take increased inter—
est in the welfare of
their family pets and
domestic a n i m a l s,
realizing, perhaps for
the ﬁrst time, that
these members of the
family have individu—
alities and needs as
deﬁnite as those of
their owners.

Some of the troops
oﬂer their services to
local wild-life conser-
vation agencies, and
participate in their
programs for making
the neighborhood safe
and attractive f 0 r
birds and little wild
creatures. Others use
their new knowledge
and power of observa—
tion in co-operating
with the S. P. C. A. in
seeing that the dogs,
cats, cows, horses and
o t h e r domesticated

 

GIRL SCOUTS ARE KIND TO ANIMALS

 

animals of the community receive the
proper consideration.

Adults who are interested in animals,
nature study, conservation, or any of those
allied subjects, should examine the possibili—
ties of the Girl Scout program, and assist
their local troops in making real contribu-
tions along these lines, either to the educa—
tion. of the community, or to various com—
munity projects. And all animal—lovers
should celebrate the Girl Scouts’ Twenty-
ﬁfth Anniversary in 1937 with heartfelt
appreciation of the work that the organiza—
tion has done.

1809 Abraham Lincoln 1937

“It is the eternal struggle between these
two principles—right and wrong. They are
the two principles that have stood face to
face from beginning of time, and will ever
continue to struggle. The one is the com-
mon right of humanity, and the other is
the divine right of kings. It is the same
principle in whatever shape it develops it—
self. It is the same spirit that says, ‘You
toil and work and earn bread, and I’ll eat
it.’ No matter in what shape it comes,
whether from the mouth of a king who
seeks to bestride the people of his own
nation and live by the fruit of their labor,
or from one race of men as an apology for
enslaving another race, it is the same
tyrannical principle.”

Lincoln-Douglas Debate

My Barn

MINA M. TITUS

Cold, winter winds may howl outside,
My barn is snug and warm.

The horses nose their fragrant hay,
Unmindful of the storm.

I draw their woolen blankets close
And straighten Old Joe’s mane.

I pat each wrinkled, velvet nose
That nuzzles golden grain.

Deep beds of straw so clean and bright
I shake in every stall,

For just beyond the tight—shut door
The drifting flakes still fall.

Then standing in the mellow dusk,
Made by my lantern’s glow,

I pause to pray for faithful beasts
Unsheltered in the snow.

Mr. Burgess to Lecture

As part of its observance of Humane
Sunday (April 11, 1937) and Be Kind to
Animals Week (April 12-17) the Massa-
chusetts S. P. C. A. has arranged with the
popular nature writer, Mr. Thornton W.
Burgess, to present his lecture, “Friendly
Folk in Fur and Feathers,” in the lecture
room of the Boston Public Library, Copley
Square, on Sunday, April 11, at 8 P. M.
Both lantern slide-s and ﬁlms will be used
to illustrate the subject.

 

 




 

June,1937

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

 

 

 

 

       

.

‘i'1;.“l‘"'\11"‘1't|‘\|”l ll‘\"\\1'%’

, 1.11 ”will,“ ,1”\\li\l',i, "‘l I‘ll':'1\"’|

 

A SUMMER FRIENDSHIP

 

Andrew’s Pets

ANDREW had three black and white puppies. They were
so ﬂuffy and pretty. One day a friend came to see
Andrew’s mother and she brought her little boy, Bennie, with
her. Andrew took Bennie out in the back yard to see his pets.

“Mother says I may keep just one puppy,” said Andrew,
and I must give the two others away. But before I let anyone
have my pets, I’m going to make sure that they will be treated
all right. Animals can feel the same as we do, and it isn’t
right to be cruel and throw stones at them or do other things
that would hurt them.”

Bennie liked the puppies so much that Andrew’s mother
said he could have one. Bennie promised his friend that he
would be kind to the little dog, and I think that he will, don’t
you?

Little Animals
FLORENCE MEAKIN

Little dogs, little eats,

Little bunnies, round and fat,
Little squirrels in the trees,
Seem to do just as they please.

When they want to play and eat,
When they wish to lie and sleep,
They never have to ask their mother,
Or their sister, or their brother.

I’ve never heard their parents scold
Or seen these creatures acting bold.
They seem to lead a happy life

Free from care and toil and strife.

Just the same, I would not be

A kitten, squirrel 0r bunny.

I’d rather be a little child

Who likes to see them running wild.

 

 

Grub Goes In; Butterfly Out

ROSE M. HALEMBA

E was as long as my lady’ s little ﬁnger, the color of er-

mine and with a head not unlike that of a seal. Just an
ugly grub leisurely crossing the path. I picked this stranger
up and carried him home. There I dropped him into an
empty pepper can and left the can on the kitchen table. Then
I forgot about him entirely.

Months passed. Springtime ripened into summer with the
trees in full foliage and fields a riot of colors. One day
my mother called me to the kitchen. There was a drumming
noise in one of the spice cans on a pantry shelf. I carefully
removed the lid from a pepper can and was amazed to ﬁnd
a gorgeous butterfly with a wingspread of fully four inches.
I shook him out on the table.

Big, beautiful butterfly, wrought by God’s hand from a
grub in a pepper can dungeon, the wide world is yours! I
carried him outdoors and gave him a gentle toss. He made
as if to light on a honeysuckle whose fragrance pervaded the
yard but a. breeze caught him, and, as I watched, he drifted
out of sight.

I 1 3 4 5

 

 

—1°°-
2 —1

 

14 5

UTE

 

°ZD

N

03 rm

1
6F
”H

 

8

<N'Ol-

28

T

mil tn" ‘0’ 2"

 

U

2..
2:2}! 2% oil r55 :6“ 3:“

mil

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

How Many Birds?

ALFRED I. TOOKE

How many bird names can you ﬁnd in the above diagram?
Start at any letter you like, and move one letter in any
direction until you have spelled out the name of a bird. For
instance, squares 14—9-10 spell “Ani,” an unusual bird name;
and 6—5-12 spell “Kea,” a New Zealand parrot. When you have
spelled out one bird name, start again from another letter (or
the same, if you like) and spell out another name, but do not
move twice onto the same square in any one name. You should
be able to get at least fourteen more names of well-known birds.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

Aug [937

Gentleman Jim
MIRIAM DEAN BLACKBURN

He died today, the dog I’ve had for years.

I couldn’t weep, for all the scalding tears

Seemed gathered close about my heart in-
stead,

To lie there in a little pool unshed.

I called him “Jim, the Gentleman,” for so

He was. And every year he seemed to grow

A little closer, understood the day

When sudden, bitter grief held poignant
sway.

He crept beside me as I sat alone

To gaze with mournful eyes into my own.

And early every morning, he would paw

Against my door with gentle, scratching
claw

To wait there for my welcoming “Come in!”

Somehow this seemed to make my day begin

Just right. And when at dusk the lamps
were lit,

He’d come and stretch himself, content to sit

As near as he could get. You wonder why

These loving memories will never die?

The reason’s just as simple as can be.

It’s this—that I loved him and he loved me.

“Only a Cat”

Editorial in Boston Daily Record

WOMAN signing herself “Children’s

Mother” sent to the Daily Record a let-
ter on the fate of a mother cat struck by a
hit-and-run motorist. This letter was printed
in the “Letters to the Editor” column.

But it was such a poignant letter, so
forceful in its picture of sheer cruelty, so
effective in its appeal to the motorists to be
careful not to run down animals, that it
deserves reprinting. It is an editorial in
itself. Read it:

“ ‘Only a cat,’ the motorists cried, as a
stricken cry came from a tiny furry body.
They sped gaily on, laughing and amused.
Yes—only a cat! A mother cat which,
crippled and dying, dragged her tortured
body toward her hungry baby kittens, the
joy and delight of a family of children.

“A kindly soul was forced with heart-
ache to put an end to mother cat’s suffer-
ing and to drown her lovable kittens before
they, too, knew suffering.

“Only a cat! How can the world have
peace with people’s hearts so careless and
cruel? Would such drivers have more com-
punction about running down a child if sure
no one would see them? I doubt it.

CHILDREN’S MOTHER”

The letter writer was justiﬁed in her in-
dictment of this driver. It should inspire
all drivers to be careful to give animals on
the highway their due chance for life.

Above all—if you do run over a cat, dog
or other animal, stop your car and take
whatever care of the Victim is necessary.

In the annual essay competition of the
Scottish S. P. C. A. 27,251 essays on the
subject, “Why do Animals Fear Man?” were
received from 459 schools. Animal books
were used for prizes, which were in three
classes and numbered in all 659. Twenty-
seven book prizes were awarded also for the
best posters illustrating kindness to animals.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Page 117

Jean Harlow, Friend of Animals
ELLA MCELLIGOTT

MONG the many

who m o u r ne (1

deeply the pass—
ing of the much loved
and publicized movie
star, Jean Harlow, no
one was more bereft
than the numerous
pets she cared for in
her beautiful home.
Gone are their happy
days when the lovely
Jean frolicked with
them and fed them in
her idle moments.
They will ﬁnd other
homes, no doubt, but
will their new owners
possess that great love
and understanding of
animals that we know
was one of the high
marks of Jean Har-
low’s character?

Of all the informa-
tion found in the press
when Jean Harlow
left this world, nothing
appealed to the imag—
ination more than the
story of her liking for
animals, which re-
vealed her in a new
light. She was not a
hard glittering crea—
ture that cared only
for public admiration.
Her deepest interests
were in her home, her
mother, and in the
many pets that made
her surroundings so

 

Photo from Boston Herald
THE LATE JEAN HARLOW WITH THREE OF HER PETS

 

liveable. She was a

true child at heart, and possessed in a large
degree that universal love, a regard for
dumb creatures, that links high and low.

It is said that at the time of her death
her home housed a small menagerie, and
though one may think it was kept for show,
we know that this was not the case, for
Jean Harlow was the type of person who
would ﬁnd something lacking in her sur-
roundings if there were not animals and
birds about to create a natural, homelike
scene.

This love for dumb creatures was not a
new found thing that came to her with
fame. From her earliest days she was sur-
rounded by pets. Her grandparents, who
had charge of her childhood years, wisely
saw to it that she had an assortment of
animals for playmates. There were ducks,
cats, dogs, a pony, and horses, to help her
pass the time. She once said, “I was wild
about ducks as a child. I had twenty-three
of them. Then one night someone broke
into the coop and stole all of them. I was
heartbroken for the longest time.” Through
her contact with animals in her childhood,
she grew to love dumb creatures, to under-
stand them, and to seek solace in their com-
pany after weary days at the studio, and
this love lasted throughout her life.

In later years she was especially fond of
dogs and cats, great Danes and fragile Per-

sians. She liked people to be interested in
her pets. She wrote to a correspondent
once that he made her very happy when he
asked about her kitten. “How could one
help loving such a precious little creature
like that?” she questioned.

Jean Harlow’s love for animals was not
the passive kind. She was ever ready to
ﬁght for them. Friends tell of the occasion
when she took the lead in organizing a
group of residents in her community for the
purpose of hunting down the cruel person
who had gone on an inhuman rampage and
poisoned hundreds of ﬁne dogs.

Likely there will be memorials to the
memory of Jean Harlow. I hope some wise
person will think to perpetuate her name in
a worthwhile work of mercy for the dumb
creatures she loved so much. She would
have liked nothing better, I am sure. There
are many ways in which animals can be
beneﬁted. Humane Societies need endow-
ments, animal hospitals are too few, and
funds to see that humane laws are passed
and observed are necessary. In some such
good work the memory of the vivacious
Jean Harlow would live for years to come,
and her short life would not have been in
vain, for the dumb creatures whom she
loved so much would gain a thousandfold.

Don’t forget your pets in vacation time.

 

 

 

 




' The American Ofﬁcers of Both Societies

DR. FRANCIS H. IIOWLEY. President
Humane Education SOCIetY GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

Prevention ol: Cruelt toAnim
ALBERT A. POLIAARD, Treasurer y als
Counsel, PEAB()DY, BROWN, [{(YVVIJICY & STOREY

The Massachusetts Society

FOR THE

 
 
  
   

GLORY To
GOD,
PEACE ON EARTH,
KINDNESS, JUSTICE 0
AND MERCY TO . )-
EVERY leme ’ ?

CREATURE.

  

  
       

Angell Memorial Animal Hospital

7
é
a Operated by the Massachusetts S. P. C. A.

170-184 Longwood Avenue, Boston

Our Dumb Animals

Founded by CEO. T. ANCELL in 1868

Ofﬁcial organ of all our Societies

 

 

Springﬁeld Branch, 53-57 Bliss Street, Springﬁeld, Mass.

 

Trustees of Permanent Funds of Both Societies

JOHN R. RIACOMBER. Chairman of the Board, First Boston Corp. CHARLES G. BANCROFT. Vice-Prom, United Shoe Machinery Corp.
PHILIP STOCKTON. President, First National Bank of Boston

Receiving no aid from city, state or community fund, the Societies are supported by
gifts, memberships and legacies.

The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals has fourteen
prosecuting officers throughout the State. '

RATES OF MEMBERSHIP IN EACH SOCIETY-Active Life, $100; Associate Life, $50;

Sustaining Annual, $20; Active Annual, $10; Associate Annual, $5; Annual,$1.;
Children’s $0.75.

All members receive OUR DUMB ANIMALS Free.

.The Massachusetts S. P. C. A. is greatly in need of funds for the extension of its general work,
especially throughout the country districts of the state where cruelty exists to a degree greater even
than in the cuties, particularly in the failure properly to feed and house domestic animals.

The reader’s attention is particularly called to the work of the Angel] Memorial Animal
Hospital and Dispensary, opened March 1, 1915. A branch of this institution was opened at
53-57 Bliss Street, Springfield, Mass., in December, 1931. Altogether we have treated 542,163
animals, 156,522 in the two Hospitals and 385,641 in the Dispensaries.

 

 

 




PageQJ, OUR DUMB ANIMALS Feb.1937

 

21—— “fn‘ - Vznw-_.T.: ’::.:L 1'; .

-_ —,~— .

‘ “ $3£W ‘ ' ' if“ .m“ T r «4 ' “It’s—ea...—

 

 

Our Dumb Animals

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston Ofﬁce: 180 Longwood _Av-
enue, Boston, Mass., to which all communications
should be addressed.

Dr. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON, Editor
WILLIAM M. MORRILL, Assistant

FEBRUARY, 1937

FOR TERMS, see back cover.

AGENTS to take orders for Our Dumb Animals are
wanted everywhere. Liberal commissions are offered.

EDITORS of all periodicals who receive this pub-
lication this month are invited to reprint any of the
articles with or Without credit.

MANUSCRIPTS relating to animals, particularly
prose articles of about three hundred words, are solic-
ited. We do not wish to consider prose manuscripts
longer than 800 words nor verse in excess of thirty-
six lines. The shorter the better. All manuscripts
should be typewritten and an addressed envelope with
full return postage enclosed with each offering.

 

 

 

 

 

Tulsa’s Shame

FROM all we can learn, the city of
Tulsa, Okla, is attractive and pros—
perous, but, strange to say, it is, according
to report, apparently indifferent to the
welfare of unfortunate animals that live
within its borders. A small group of de—
voted humane workers have given their
time and money sacriﬁcingly and unstint-
edly to awaken enough interest in Tulsa
to make possible a real society for the
prevention of cruelty to animals. The
response from the citizens has been prac-
tically nothing. The city ofﬁcials, it is
allege-d, have failed to co-operate with
them. It seems almost unbelievable, in
a day like this, where civilization is so
largely measured by the response of hu—
man beings to the claims of animals for
justice and compassion, that this city, if
reports are true, has failed to rise in this
respect to the level which characterizes
the vast majority of metropolitan centers
throughout the country.

A Remarkable Discovery

There comes to us through Reuter the
following:

The discovery of an island off Alaska
which swarms with rare sea otters—worth
their weight in gold—has been announced
by Senator Thomas in Washington.

On his return: from a four—weeks’ tour in
Alaska, the Senator said that the otter
refuge had been discovered by a commander
of the coastguard. Three thousand otters
were counted along the island’s rocky shore.

Long believed to be virtually extinct, this
species of sea otter produces one of the
most valuable of all furs. Single pelts have
been sold for as much as $500.

Mr. Thomas asked that the island’s name
be kept secret until he could introduce legis—
lation making it a permanent game pre—
serve.

Every lover of animals will be vitally in-
terested in knowing whether it is going
to be possible for this island to be made a
permanent game preserve.

Humane Sunday, April 11; Be Kind to
Animals Week, April 12‘17, 1937.

Another Word from the

Unbelievable Sparrows

HOSE who have read the extraordi-

nary story told by Commander and
Mrs. Holton concerning the Beep family of
English sparrows will be glad to hear an—
other word from them. Mrs. Holton writes
us as follows:

“The Beep family arrived safely in Ma—
nila and have been through one typhoon
which struck Manila about a week after
our arrival. Commander Holton sailed from
Shanghai, November 1, on the U. 8.8.
Blackhawk for Hong Kong, Singapore and
Manila. On November 17 I sailed on the
Canadian ship Empress of Russia for Ma-
nila with Beep, Jr. When my husband
reached Hong Kong he wrote me of his trip
ashore and said that going up the Hong
Kong hills Beep, Mrs. Beep and their chil-
dren ﬂitted about watching him take pic—
tures, and that two days out from Shanghai
on the China seas the boatswain who su—
pervise-d the scrubbing of the decks early in
the morning reported to Commander Holton
that the Beeps ﬂew down to the deck from
their hiding place on the Ship and were so
tame that they almost got in the way of
the crew as they were scrubbing the decks.
Beep ﬂew around the bridge at this time
and called out in his familiar notes to my
husband as he ﬂashed by, and then ﬂew
back to the ship.”

The letter continues, saying that Beep
and Mrs. Beep and the children are now
full—ﬂedged shellbacks, having crossed the
Equator November 23. We wish we had
room for more of the story of these strange
birds.

Not Needed Here—
Thank Heaven

The Home Ofﬁce in England is consider—
ing a suggestion as to the wisdom of pro-
viding anti—gas respirators for dogs. Ex—
perimentation is being made with certain
of these masks. It was found that the
mask tied on certain dogs seemed to cause
them no little annoyance, and The Dog’s
Bulletin of the National Canine Defence
League says, “We think it would be a con-
siderable time before one could overcome
the average dog’s objection to such a mask,
although it is not possible to say whether
adequate protection for a dog could be pro-
vided by any less irksome means. These
particular masks have to be made to meas—
ure for each individual dog and are made
abroad. The British device has not yet
been submitted to us and we doubt if it is
yet ready.”

More Military Training

We learn that 60 army aviation courses
have been offered to the colleges of this
country and a job is promised to every stu-
dent who completes the course and proves
himself ﬁtted for the position. It is stated
further that money has been appropriated
by the Government for this purpose and
that the work is ready to be started.

Aparently it is the same old story——talk
peace and keep preparing for war.

From “Tom” and “Jerry”

COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS
THE SUPERIOR COURT
BOSTON

THOMAS H. DOWD
ASSOCIATE JUSTICE
Dec. 22, 1936
To the Oﬂicials and Attendants
of the
Angell Memorial Hospital

Dear Sirs:

I wish to express to you my deep appre-
ciation of your kindness to my two Irish
terriers, “Tom” and “Jerry.” They must
at times seem a nuisance to you because of
their frequent calls at the Hospital. It
seems that every time they can evade our
watchfulness the call of the wild seems to
stir within them. Then off to the open
spaces they scamper unrestrained by man—
made bolts and bars. After hours of social
calls and amenities required and recognized
by select canine society, they drag their

a Weary limbs to the portals of the club house

of the Associated Dog Fraternity and re—
ceive a welcome hospice. Verily Tom must
say to Jerry in some mysterious language
of which poor humans know nothing, “Come
on, Jerry, we’re all tired out, let us put up
at the club (Angell Memorial) tonight and
the good oﬂicials will telephone the Judge
and he will come after us and. drive us
home.” I can think of no greater tribute
to the great and humane work of your in—
stitution than this eloquent testimonial of
the appreciation of kindness shown by the
repeated calls at the Hospital of these two
Irish terriers. Indeed, it sometimes does
in truth seem that dumb creatures are more
appreciative of kindness than humans.
While you have always courteously refused
compensation for your kindness, Tom and
Jerry insist that I enclose a small check,
with the hope that some less fortunate
dumb creature may be made more comfort-
able. They also request me to extend a
Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year
to all the members of the Associated Dog
Fraternity, in case they cannot get out to
extend such greeting in person—who knows?
Very truly yours,
THOMAS H. Down

Again It Happens

A Miss Gladys Cote, of Chicago, we learn
by the press, was fatally injured by a lion
in an animal act in a Baltimore theater,
dying a few days later. She was doing a
specialty dance with trained wild animals,
and one of the lions, which was supposed to
pretend to attack her, actually did so.

When this act was staged in Chicago,
complaints were made to the Chicago Hu-
mane.Education Society that the act was
annoying to the animals, that they seemed
to resent it, and the protest was made to
the theater management. This protest was
ignored. Had it been heeded, it is quite
possible Miss Cote might be living today.

These animal acts are growing rare,
and we hope all members of the Jack Lon-
don Club Will either leave theaters where
such performances are on the program or
make their protest.

 




 

 

 

 

(1th {Earth of ﬁllerry

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

E. A. MARYOTT, State Organizer
PLEDGE

I will try to be kind to all living creatures and
try to protect the-m from cruel usage. .

The American Humane Education Society Wlll send
to every person who forms a Band of Mercy of thlrty
members, and sends the name chosen for the Band
and the name and post-ofﬁce address of the DI‘ESI-
dent who has been duly elected, speCIal Band of
Mercy literature and a gilt badge for the, pres1dent.
See inside front cover for prices of literature and
Band of Mercy Supplies.

NEW BANDS OF MERCY

Three hundred and seventy-two new
Bands of Mercy were reported during
January. Of these 89 were in Massachu-
setts, 82 in North Carolina, 73 in Florida,
45 in Virginia, 36 in Pennsylvania, 17 in
Illinois, 12 in Oregon, 11 in Texas, three
in Syria, and one each in Arizona, Maine,
New York and Oklahoma.

Total number of Bands of Mercy organ—
ized by Parent American Society, 221,272.

Kitty Catches Burglars
ADRIAN ANDERSON

EVERAL months ago a skinny, emaci-
ated brown cat wandered into the Dav-

idson Coal and Feed Company, in Decatur,
Alabama, and without so much as a “may
I?” took up residence there. The proprletor
felt little need for a cat, but, being a kind
man, not only permitted Kitty to remaln
but, with generous feedings, proceeded to
fatten him up. . .

One day recently, the proprletor noticed
the cat, now sleek and fat, gazing intently
at the ceiling in the rear of the store. After
watching the cat’s unwavering gaze for a
few minutes, he went outside to 1nvest1—
gate, and, lo and behold, discovered two
men on the roof spying into the store
through a crack in the roof. The police
were quietly summoned and the would—be
burglars delivered into their charge.

Mr. Davidson, the owner of the store, re-
marked that Kitty had his rent paid up for
a long, long time to come.

IN THE EDITOR’S LIBRARY

THE ABC OF ATTRACTING BIRDS

Alvin M. Peterson.

From his personal observations of the
birds which he has attracted to 1118 own
premises, enjoying their presence at all sea-
sons, the author tells us how they can be
retained on the friendliest and most intimate
terms by the real and practical bird lover.
In a round dozen chapters he sets forth the
best kind of drinking fountains, baths, nest—
ing-boxes, shelves and other accessories
which his bird neighbors make use of in
astonishing numbers. His food trays are
supplied with what he knows the b1rds like
best, while trees, thickets, vines and ﬂowers
appear to have made a “safety ﬁrst” sanc-
tuary for them.

The author has established himself as
one of the very best of bird landlords and
we believe that many who have read his
frequent contributions to Our Dumb Ani-
mals will want to obtain this interesting
book with its numerous illustrations pic—
turing the ways and means he has adopted
to attract all his bird guests.

146 pp. $1.50. The Bruce Publishing Co.,
Milwaukee.

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Owned by J. E. Mullen, Roxbury, Mass.

M ar. 1937

and, most important of
all, provide a place for
your cat to sleep at
night. Do not permit it
to roam around at
night or in the early
morning, for that is
the time when most of
its predatory work to
wild life is accomp-
lished. If you follow
these few simple rules
for safe-guarding and
protecting your own
pet, as well as other
animals, you will be
more than repaid for
your efforts.

. If interested in show-
ing ﬁlms during Be

Kind to Animals Week,
see advertising page
and write early to 180
Longwood Avenue, Bos-

 

Is Your Cata Menace?
LOIS M. MARMON

HE sportsmen throughout Ohio, where

I live, are subscribing quite forcibly to
the theory that cats are responsible for the
destruction of much of the wild life. They
are contending that cats, both pets, and
tame and semi—tame animals, are by far the
greatest of all offenders to the diminishing
game supply.

So strongly haveisportsmen from the dif-
ferent sections of the state expressed their
opinion and belief that cats are a menace
to wild life that an organized attempt is
being considered for the licensing of cats.
If this bit of legislation goes through in
this state, it will not only decrease the
number of cats, but the idea and purpose
will spread to other states and be similarly
acted upon.

If you are a lover of cats and treasure
one as a pet, guard it and keep it from
becoming a menace. A very deﬁnite pre-
vention routine may be followed to insure
the safety of your pet: namely, have a
regular time for feeding pussy; do not
overfeed but keep it so well fed that it will
not be as willing to prey on birds and other
wild life; at all times keep a saucer of milk
or water in an accustomed place for your
pet to “help itself” whenever it is thirsty;

ton, for reservations.

Humane Workers’ FUnd

We are receiving gifts to the American
Humane Education Society as a trust fund,
the interest to be used for the benefit of
ﬁeld missionaries and others who have spent
their lives in promoting humane education.

We will welcome your contribution to this
fund. Please make checks payable to Treas-
urer, American Humane Education Society,
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

 

 

 

Our Dumb Animals

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
t e Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
IXIassachusetts. Boston Ofﬁce: 180 Longwood
venue.

Address all communications to Boston.

TERMS
One dollar per year. Postage free to any part of
the world. i
. All dollar subscriptions sent direct to the office en-
title the sender to membership in either of our two
Societies.
RATES OF MEMBERSHIP IN

THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY

OR THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.
Active Life
Associate Life
Sustaining

$100 00 Active Annual $10 00
50 00 Associate Annual 5 00
20 00 Annual 1 00

Children’s $0.7 5

Checks and other payments may be sent to ALBERT
Ag. tPOLLARD, Treasurer, 180 Longwood Avenue,
05 on.

Manuscripts should be addressed to the Editor, 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston.

 

 

TO OUR FRIENDS

In making your will, kindly bear in mind that the corporate title of our Society is “The
Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals”; that it is the second
incorporated (March, 1868) Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals in the country,
and that it has no connection with any other similar Society.

Any bequest especially intended for the beneﬁt of the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital
should, nevertheless, be made to The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals “for the use of the Hospital,” as the Hospital is not incorporated but is the
property of that Society and is conducted by it.

FORM or BEQUEST

I give to The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (or
to The American Humane Education Society), the sum of
dollars (or, if other property, describe the property).

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

Page 7.?

Our Dumb Animals

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston Ofﬁce: 180 Longwood .Av-
enue, Boston, Mass., to which all communications
should be addressed.

Dr. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON, Editor

WILLIAM M. MORRILL, Assistant

 

MAY, 1937

 

FOR TERMS, see back cover.

AGENTS to take orders for Our Dumb Anima’s are
wanted everywhere. Liberal commissions are offered.

EDITORS of all periodicals who receive this pub-
lication this month are invited to reprint any of the
articles with or without credit.

MANUSCRIPTS relating to animals, particularly
prose articles of about three hundred words, are solic-
ited. We do not wish to consider prose manuscripts
longer than 800 words nor verse in excess of thirty-
six lines. The shorter the better. All manuscripts
should be typewritten and an addressed envelope with
full return postage enclosed with each offering.

 

Misleading PrOpaganda

U NDER the heading, “Don’t Worry over
Horses in the Films,” the New York
World-Telegram prints an Associated Press
dispatch from Hollywood whitewashing all
ﬁlms showing horses, including especially
“The Charge of the Light Brigade.” While
the paragraphs about this ﬁlm do not ex-
plicitly say that there was no cruelty to
horses in its ﬁlming, the language is so
chosen as to give that impression. The
article concludes: “These trick horses are
supplied chieﬂy by rental concerns. They
are valuable animals—too expensive to get
hurt.” Yet reference to the court records of
California, which are so soon forgot, will
show where convictions were secured for
cruelty to horses in ﬁlming that same
“Charge of the Light Brigade.” And eﬁorts
are now being made to have the California
Legislature enact special laws to prevent
the use of the device, known as “The Run-
ning W,” which caused this cruelty. How
little the public really knows about what
happens when the original ﬁlming of these
scenes with horses and other animals takes
place! “ ‘Trader Horn,’ for instance,” (we
are told by Helen Trevelyan in her book,
“Laugh, Clown, Laughl”) “widely boosted
as ﬁlmed in Africa, was only partially
taken there. The big ﬁght ‘punches’ were
taken in Mexico beyond the jurisdiction of
any U. S. A. humane society.”

To Help Wild Life

Moving to conserve wild life in the na—
tion’s wilderness area, the ofﬁce of Indian
affairs has outlawed the traditional steel-
jawed trap in the ECW predatory animal
control program on Indian lands.

Commissioner John C. Collier said mod-
ernized and more humane traps employing
a noose or a chain will be substituted, elim-
inating possibility of maiming or mangling
trapped animals and insuring workers the
opportunity to dispatch predators cleanly
and surely.

The Indian service emphasized that the
new system will be more practical as well
as more humane. Under the outlawed
system, it was impossible to trap predators
without killing a large number of harmless
and useful animals.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Bull-Fighting in Cuba

FFORTS are being made to introduce

bull-ﬁghting into Cuba again. Read--
ers of Our Dumb Animals will recall
the heroic eﬁorts of the late Mrs. Jeanette
Ryder to stop illegal bull—ﬁghts in that
country. Now it is sought to legalize
them, the chief argument being that
their absence keeps tourists from the
United States from visiting the island.
It has been announced in the press that a
syndicate of Cuban and American sportsmen
are ready to spend $700,000 to provide means
for a well-known American bull—ﬁghter to
appear in a Cuban ring. If you wish to help
in preventing this atrocity, write to Dr.
Arturo Illas, president of the Cuban Senate,
Havana, Cuba, making it clear that the
United States honors Cuba for the splendid
stand it has taken for many years against
bull-ﬁghting, and that we of this country do
not believe that a single tourist is being
kept away from Cuba because of the fact
that bull-ﬁghts are not permitted there.
The return of the bull-ﬁght to Cuba might
prove to be an entering wedge for the intro-
duction of this abomination in some state of
the Union.

For Heroic Effort

The Massachusetts Society for the Pre-
vention of Cruelty to Animals awarded its
medal to Ottie H. Andrews, 817 Boston
Street, Lynn, last month for attempting to
rescue a horse from drowning. Young
Andrews is attached to 1114th Company,
C. C. C., at the Army Base in South Bos—
ton.

A two-horse truck hit a tieup at the
edge of the wharf and one of the horses
was hurled into the harbor. Andrews was
standing nearby and without hesitation
jumped in after the animal, which was
being hampered by its harness.

Cutting away the harness, after a
struggle of 20 minutes, during which he
was in great danger of being drowned by
the struggling animal, or at least seriously
injured by its hoofs, Andrews climbed
back to the wharf and went after a row-
boat to tow the horse to safety. Meantime
the police boat came to the scene and
started to tow the animal to the South
Boston shore. When it arrived the horse
was dead from immersion.

Andrews’ act was one of the bravest that
has come to the Society’s attention in
recent years, and although he did not suc—
ceed in saving the horse, it was felt he
richly deserved the medal.

The Springﬁeld Branch Auxiliary of the
Massachusetts S. P. C. A. will hold its an—
nual June Day festivities on the estate of
Mrs. Charles N. Denault, at 734 Long—
meadow Street, Longmeadow, on Tuesday,
June 8, for the beneﬁt of the Society. There
will be a dessert bridge, fashion show,
organ recital, aesthetic dancing, and after-
noon tea.

The hill was steep and the load heavy.
The donkey did its best, but at last it
stopped and would not budge another inch.

The driver saw a man passing. “Excuse
me,” he said, “but could you help me to get
this load to the top of the hill? It’s too
much for one donkey.” ——Montreal Star

 

May, 1937

The Commonwealth of Massachusetts
By His Excellency
CHARLES F. HURLEY
GOVERNOR

A PROCLAMATION
1937

Twenty—two years ago, at the instigation
of the Massachusetts Society for the Pre—
vention of Cruelty to Animals, the ﬁrst
national Humane Sunday and Be Kind to
Animals Week were observed. Since that
time this annual event has become a na-
tional institution, proclaimed by Governors
of many states and sponsored by Humane
Societies in every part of our country. It
is designed to call special attention to the
claims of the animal world upon us for
kindness, justice and mercy. It is accomp—
lishing its purpose through three distinct
channels, the school, the press, and the
church. It especially stresses Humane
Education which is the awakening and fos—
tering, particularly in the mind of the
child, of those principles of justice, fair
play, and kindness toward every form of
life, human and sub-human, capable of suf—
fering, without which there can be no char-
acter worthy of citizenship in a free state.

This year, Sunday, April 11, is desig-
nated as “Humane Sunday,” and the week
beginning April 12 as “Be Kind to Animals
Week.” '

Therefore I, Charles F. Hurley, Govern-
or of Massachusetts, do hereby set aside
the week of April 12 to April 17 as

BE KIND TO ANIMALS WEEK

During this week, I urge the people of
this Commonwealth, and particularly re-
ligious, educational and public leaders, to
give special thought during this period to
the needs and care of our animal friends,
in the spirit of Coleridge’s lines:

“He prayeth best, who loveth best

All things both great and small.”

I especially urge that Humane Day in
Schools, either on Friday, April 16, or the
nearest convenient date, be observed
throughout the Commonwealth by holding
special exercises in behalf of kindness to
animals.

CHARLES F. HURLEY

Humane Slaughter of Pigs

Both the Ulster and Scottish S.P.C.A.’s
are at present agitating for amending legis-
lation to extend the enforcement of mechan-
ical stunning to pigs. In Scotland the four
Societies for P.C.A. compiled statistics
which form the basis of a joint Memorial by
the Societies to the Secretary of State for
Scotland. The Memorial, which will be
lodged at an early date, shows that, of
215,000 pigs (the approximate number
slaughtered in Scotland annually in the 400
slaughtenhouses in which pigs are slaugh-
tered), humane methods of mechanical
stunning of swine are already voluntarily in
use in 270 slaughter-houses for 169,000 pigs
(i.e. 80 per cent. of the total number.)

—The International Journal

Full reports of the Humane Sunday and
Be Kind to Animals Week celebrations will
be found in our June number.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

COMPLIMENTS OP?
“a “ﬂag ( smsw jﬁinTEE-ﬁ"
THE Hbgfm y’aJLh‘M i: ...H:C,‘;2 K M
Wu 1‘ r M“
l m w» .W 5 v _ N
057%)” 5'13 N? '54:} ,if-‘za‘v’ipg‘hiEs-ksmb

J. D. JACCAﬁ-D, President

484 JOHNSTON AVENUE
JERSEY CITY, N. J.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

-- ‘55.. iv an .; “A. A :. 44;»
. 44 n A
v

 

 

 

Page 96

Sheep Laurel
HARRY ELMORE HURD

Sheep laurel in the spring

Is a bewitehing thing.

Let foolish lambs beware——
This beauty is a snare.

No shepherd likes to think
That clustered green and pink
Upon a pasture hill

Will hill, but laurel will.

Sheep laurel in the fall

Is loveliest of all,

But never so to sheep.
When autumn blizzards sweep
Across the barren hills
And wrathful winter spills
Its cumulative snows,
Untarnished laurel glows
With everlasting green—-
A living link between

Two promises—a thing

0f beauty, born of spring,
But 0, the little lambs
Kneeling by their dams!

Why the World Likes Dogs

CAPT. WILL JUDY.
Editor, Dog World, Chicago

HE most unselﬁsh living thing in the

world is your dog. If you are in dan-
ger, your dog needs only to hear your cry
of distress to rush to your aid, without
thought of his own life, fearless of guns
and enemies.

The most patient thing in the world is
your dog, waiting for hours at the top of
the stairs to hear the sound of your foot-
steps, never complaining however late you
may be.

The most grateful thing in the world is
your dog. Whatever you give him, what—
ever you do for him, he never is guilty of
ingratitude. To him you are the most pow—
erful personage in the world and beyond
censure; you are your dog’s god; you can
do no wrong.

The most friendly thing in the world is
your dog. Of all the animal kingdom, he
alone serves man without whip, without
compulsion, glad to be by the side of his
master wherever he may be, whatever he
may do, and sad in heart when his master
is away.

The most forgiving thing in the world is
your dog. The one virtue most humans
lack is that of forgiveness. But your dog
carries no grudge and no spite. Punish him
even undeservedly, and he comes to you,
nudges his moist nose into your hand, looks
up at you with pleading eyes, and wags his
tail hesitatingly as though to say, “Oh, come
on, let’s be pals again.”

The most loyal thing in the world is your
dog. Whether you come home from Con-
gress or from jail, whether you have lost
your fortune or made a million, whether you
return dressed in fashion’s height or in
rags, whether you have been hailed hero or
condemned as criminal, your dog is waiting
for you with a welcoming bark of delight,
a wagging tail and a heart that knows no
guile. The world likes dogs because dogs

are nearest to moral perfection of all living
things.

OUR DUMB ANIM'ALS

 

BE KIND TO ANIMALS WEEK

Be Kind to Animals Anniversary is
so sound, so sensible and so worthy of
attention that the observance of the
week is becoming more popular and
more universal. Noted people in every
walk of life gladly give their services
to make the event a success. Such co-
operation is appreciated by and en-
couraging to Humane Societies busy
every day in preventing cruelty to
animals but which cannot reach their
maximum efﬁciency until given the
active support of the public.

It is ﬁtting that for one week we
give serious thought to the place ani—
mals occupy in our lives. To them we
are indebted for our very existence.

——Conneetieut Humane Bulletin

 

 

 

Mrs. Clarke Re-elected

At the annual business meeting of the
Women’s Auxiliary of the Massachusetts
S. P. C. A., held at Hotel Kenmore, Boston,
on May 4, Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke
was re—elected president, Mrs. Charles C.
Hoyt was chosen ﬁrst vice-president, Mrs.
E. C. Brown, second vice—president, Mrs.
Harry Cole, treasurer, Mrs. Francis G.
Carreiro, recording secretary, and Mrs.
George A. Ramlose, corresponding secretary.
Plans were discussed for the annual fair to
be held in the fall.

The annual luncheon, which followed the
business session, was, well attended and
marked by much enthusiasm on the part of
the speakers, including President Edith
Washburn Clarke, President Francis H.
Rowley, Mrs. Amy M. Clark, superintend—
ent of the New England Baptist Hospital,
Sergeant George H. Thompson of the De-
partment of Public Safety, Treasurer Albert
A. Pollard and Secretary Guy Richardson.

Congratulations to the Toronto Humane
Society for collecting the magniﬁcent sum
of $22,200 on its recent tag day, April 1.
What a ﬁne corps of workers our neighbor-
ing city in Canada must have. How Man-
aging Director John Wilson must rejoice!

More cruelty results from ignorance than
from any other cause. . . . It is because we
need them, and because thousands have
cause even to love them, that everyone is
urged to celebrate this week by acts of kind—
ness to animals.

—Herald, Portsmouth, N. H.

 

June, 1937

 

IN THE EDITOR’S LIBRARY
a.“

INTERVIEVVING ANIMALS, B a s t i a n
Schmid

This book is a translation from the Ger-
man, whose. author is an animal psychologist
and superv1sor of a “biological station.” It
is the product of close observation, investi-
gation and study of both tame and wild
animals and birds, from the time of their
birth to maturity. '

Of these animals with which humankind
are quite familiar, Dr. Schmid gives us
much new and valuable information. He
has solved many problems of instinct and
behav1or, such as the mental equipment at
birth of.b1r.ds and animals, their means of
communication with their fellows, their
psychic interests, their mental images of
their individual worlds, the difference be-
tween their senses and those of human
beings, their capacity to learn, and many
other questions.

Keen, intellectual pleasure is afforded the
untrained reader by the author’s deduc-
1310118,. always interesting, plausible, and
seientiﬁc. Such a book tends to stimulate
the reader to observe with his own eyes and
investigate for himself. “I have written it,”
says its author, “for all those who feel
drawn to animals, and I could wish that
more .and more would truly make their
acquaintance.”

All the illustrations except two—there are

sixty in all—are from photographs and dia- —

grams by the author.

223 pp, $3., Hou hton M'fﬂ' _ '
and New York. g 1 In Go ’ Boston

0, beauty of the time when winter’s done
And all the ﬁelds are laughing at the sun.
MASEFIELD

 

 

 

Our Dumb Animals
Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of

Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston Ofﬁce: 180 Longwood Av-

enue.
Address all communications to Boston.

TERMS
One dollar per year. Postage free to any part of
the world.
All dollar subscriptions sent direct to the office en-

title the sender to membership in either of our two
Soc1eties.

RATES OF MEMBERSHIP IN

THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
OR THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.

Active Life $100 00 Active Annual $10 00

Associate Life 50 00 Associate Annual '5 00

Sustaining 20 00 Annual 1 00
Children’s $0.75

Checks and other payments may be sent to ALBERT
113;. POLLARD, Treasurer, 180 Longwood Avenue,
oston.

Manuscripts should be addressed to the Editor, 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston.

 

 

 

TO OUR FRIENDS

In making your will, kindly bear in mind that the corporate title of our Society is “The
Massachusetts Socrety for the .Prevention of Cruelty to Animals”: that it is the second
incorporated (March, 1868) Socrety for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals in the country,
and that it has no connection with any other similar Society.

Any bequest especrally intended for the beneﬁt of the Angel] Memorial Animal Hospital
should, nevertheless, be made to The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty

to Animals “for the use of the Hospital,” as the Hospital is not incorporated but is the
property of that Society and is conducted by it.

FORM OF BEQUEST

I give to.The Massachusetts .Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (or
to The American Humane Education Society), the sum of

dollars (or, if other property, describe the property).

oooooooooooooooooooooooooooo

 

 

 

 

, aw. new?!“ ”Wk-Wm W" “‘

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 118
To a Well-Loved Poet

EDITH LOMBARD SQUIRES

Although you write no sonnets
Your emotion

Of wagging tail is lyric
With devotion.

Your bark lilts like a ballad
And your eyes

Hold triolets of rapture
And surprise.

And when you beg a favor
Or a bone,

You are alive with rhythm
All your own.

Your smallest gro-wl’s a conplet,
Pointed, terse;

While every hair is vibrant
With blank verse.

Deep in your heart is beauty
And strange lore——

In fact, you are a poet
I adore.

Canine Intelligence
GEORGE A. KELLY

AS a dog sufﬁcient intelligence to dis—
tinguish a policeman from the ordinary
citizen?

Regardless of what the reader may decide
in that respect, the author, a policeman, will
assure him he has. The following account
will sufﬁce to bear out my statement.

About 1:30 in the morning (and a bitter
cold morning it was) several years ago,
while patrolling my route on Blue Hill Av-
enue in the ROXbury section of Boston, I
was about to pass an alley when I felt a
tug on the skirt of my overcoat. Glancing
down on my, right side in a surprised man-
ner, I beheld the face of an Irish terrier
staring up into mine. His teeth were ﬁrmly
ﬁxed to the edge of my coat, and his four
feet were braced as though he intended to
prevent me from continuing on my way.

I reached down, patted him ﬁrmly on the
head, and said in a soft tone of voice:
“Well, 01d fellow, what seems to be bother-
ing you?”

His answer was in the form of a loud
whine, with continued pressure on his paws,
as though he was desirous of dragging me
bodily into the inky blackness behind him.

“All right, old fellow,” I said to him in
a reassuring voice, “let’s go into this alley
and see what this is all about.”

I then threw a beam from my ﬂashlight
along the rubbish-strewn path, where it
terminated on a red brick wall, to which
point I began to walk. Upon seeing the
beam of light he released my coat and ran
to the wall, where he hesitated until I
reached his side, after which he made a
half—right turn, ran several more paces and
stopped once more, facing an entrance, with
his ears and tail straight up, and his head
cocked to the left side.

When I reached his side I ﬂashed my
light and the ray fell on the ﬁgure of a
man, fully clothed, lying in an unconscious
heap at the bottom of a ﬂight of dirt-
covered stairs, and the instant I knelt at

OUR DUMB

 

 

Photo by Boller :
ONE OF THE INTELLIGENT ONES

 

his side to examine him, I detected a very
strong odor of intoxicating liquor from his
breath.

Being unsuccessful in my attempt to
arouse him, I then picked him up bodily
and carried him to the front of the build-
ing, where I set him on a doorstep and be—
gan slapping his face in a brisk manner
to clear his whiskey-soaked brain, when a
citizen approached us. I asked him to sprint
to the station house, some distance away,
and notify the oﬂficerﬁ in charge that I
wanted the wagon at this point.

A few minutes later the wagon pulled
up to the curb, the victim was placed in it,
and shortly we were standing before the
desk. The man had recovered enough to
answer our questions, while his faithful
companion lay alongside a sizzling radiator
behind us with his head reposing on his
front legs, and his eyes ﬁxed intently on
the back of his master.

There he remained until the probation
ofﬁcer released his master, whereupon he
followed him out the door, with his mouth
wide open, and displaying his teeth, while
he wagged his tail furiously.

Unaware was his master that his pet had
saved his life that night, but his pet was
aware that I had assisted him to a great
extent, for, when I placed a dish of water
at his head, he got up on all fours, stretched
his neck, and licked my chin several times,
which gesture I took for granted was his
dumb way of saying, “I thank you for your
assistance, Mr. Policeman.”

The proof that the dog could distinguish
a policeman from an ordinary passerby,
lies in the fact that several persons had
passed by him a few minutes ahead of my-
self, and he made no effort to attract their
attention.

Mysterious indeed are the minds of the
“canine inhabitants” on this earth.

Please remember the American Humane
Education Society of Boston in your will.

ANIMALS

Aug. 1937
The Naming

An Allegory
JOHN COLVILLE

HE Man slept ﬁtfully. The shadow
and menace of the vast unknown wild
troubled him, even in his sleep.

There were great beasts who crept out
of the dark forest at night in search of
food.

He awoke trembling, straining his eyes
at the darkness. His ﬁre had burned low.
He threw a withered limb of a tree upon it.
The ﬂames leaped up. He stretched himself
upon the ground again.

He had learned that the wild things of
the forest feared ﬁre.

The Angel of Man’s Destiny looked down
at the sleeping man and sighed with pity
for his weakness.

Nature had not given to man the weapons
and armor of the other living things.

Far across the plain that stretched away
from the forest, a great gaunt creature
arose from the ground, pointed it’s muzzle
at the moon, just breaking through a cloud,
tensed every muscle of it’s lean, hard body
and gave forth it’s cry.

The Angel heard the cry and smiled. He
called to the creature in the wordless call
of nature, and the beast turned and trotted
toward the edge of the forest where the
Man slept.

As the beast neared the ﬁre, he paused,
sniffed the air . . . bared his fangs and
growled.

Then the Angel spoke to the beast, again:

“This sleeping creature is Man. You
must lie by his side and guard him from
the ﬁerce beasts of the wild. Even the
greatest of them fear you, for you are brave
and wise. When the Man awakes, he will
know that you are more to him than any
other beast . . . you are his friend. And he
will give you a name that will always mean
faithfulness and love. He will call you
DOG.”

o ‘0
o

A humane boycott of all vicious and
discreditable shows, featuring animal acts,
was long ago urged by the Jack London
Club.Send to
headquarters
at 180 Long-
wood Avenue

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   

Boston, for
detailed in-
f o r m a t i o n
about it and
other litera-
ture.

“LOVE ME, LOVE MY DOG”

:_ ‘u’gey .

 

 




 

 

 

Sept. 1937

I
l

V. ..\_

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

 

.3”: ll
'r‘lll 1,.
l ll I
L
l

l
a":
l

)

H'W
M l

 
 

l

l“
l

WW.

 

\‘I
I'M

 

 

 

L

 
 

..
‘11,], I

 

 
 
   

- , u ‘ .
«‘1‘»: 1 ‘ . , ~‘ .
.\ _ ,1 , l ‘ \
} :II ‘ l l .‘ ,. y) u ,\
$3.. or \. l' , , . . S,’ l,
l \ 11LIJM\l\|\‘v\(‘ulllu\’/’\II, ([15,! )EA‘! ,ql,’

 

 

 

war we we

“SCRAPPY,” THE “DOOR-STEP PUPPY”

Lain and Adelaide Ready of Pueblo, Colorado, are the proud
possessors of this “door-step puppy.” The fine little Sealyham
was left in a small shoe box on the steps of a veterinary hos-
pital more than a year ago.

The Battling Birds

ALFRED I. TOOKE

The keeper of the bird-house in the zoo had some loose
letters picked out to stick on the notice board outside, telling
visitors just what kinds of birds they could see inside. He
put the letters for each name in a separate envelope. When
he started work on the board he tumbled out the letters for
the ﬁrst name and they fell like this: “SPIDER PANS.” He
thought that was a funny sort of bird, so as he tumbled the
letters from the other envelopes he arranged them also into
other words and this is the result he got, though, of course,
he did not stick them on the board this way, but put them
back into proper order ﬁrst:

SPIDER PANS I TAN RIMS RAIN CASE

SLOW LAWS HINGE FRISK COKE POWDER

ANT HEAPS SORE OIL CLEAN SIP

GRAPE DIRT NEW GRIDS WARM HOE SMELLY

Can you tell what were the names of the different birds?

A Puppy’s Appeal
CELIA I. HARVEY

AM just a little puppy that some folks adopted. They have
six children, so I often wonder Why they took me.

“They are not rich people,-and sometimes they forget to
feed me—I don’t think they always have a lot themselves. At
ﬁrst they kept me in the house, just letting me out for a run
occasionally, and always kept me in at night where I felt safe,
and then all of a sudden, a few nights ago, they put me out in
a little house by myself at night, when it was all dark and
stormy, and I was so afraid I cried and then howled just be-
cause I was afraid and lonely too, and then a big man, the chil-

   

\

dren’s daddy, came out and whipped me. Then I cried mor
because I could not understand it at all.

“He came out twice and whipped me for crying, and never
seemed to understand, himself, that I was only a baby, and as
such could not know why I was put out there in the ﬁrst place,
after being allowed to get used to sleeping in the house, then
during the day I was tied with a long rope, to a post, there
was no shade and no water, and I did get so thirsty, but could
not make them understand that, and I got restless and wound
myself up in all that rope, and all together put in an awful day,
and got slapped for all of it, as if I had been to blame. Finally
a kind neighbor called to one of the boys, and asked why they
didn’t give me a pan of water, so then he did so. I wonder
why they treat me this way, when I could be such a nice little
dog if they would just give me a doggie’s chance. I wish some-

body good and kind and understanding would take me away
from here.

e

Vacation’s Over
(He also serves who only wags and waits)

I think I sniﬁ“ excitement in the air;
Perhaps he’s coming home! If I could know.
But up and down the street and everywhere
I’ve watched about a hundred years or so;
But somehow I expect him any day

With cheery shout, as when he went away.

And when I hear that whistle! and you see

A streak of dog, in frantic happiness—

You’ll understand; He’ll pat my head and say:
“Hello, old Scout! You missed me some, I guess.”
I leap to kiss his hand—and then—Oh boy—

I wonder if a dog can die of joy!

LAURA SIMMONS

Food for Toads

EDITH MONTROSE

HE phenomenal appetite of the common toad makes her
one of man’s most valuable helpers. Toads will eat nearly
all insects so long as they move or glow.

Old “Sleepy-eye” was our family pet for over ﬁve years.
I never failed to marvel at the great amount of food she could
eat during a single day, sometimes as much as three or four
times her weight.

During strawberry season much of her time was spent
hopping among the vines searching for the tiny slugs which
infest the fruit, but she never ate the berries. Glowworms
were her favorite dainty and she would hop for one as far as
she could see its light. She even ate bees with apparent relish.
Perhaps they did not sting her for she suffered no ill effects
from their poison.

An interesting fact made Sleepy—eye the talk of the whole
neighborhood. One day I caught several ﬁreﬂies which she
quickly devoured. Evidently the ﬁreflies did not die at once
for in the dark I was startled to see her sides light up at times
with a phosphorescent glow. Although she was fed ﬁreflies
many times afterwards only on three or four occasions did the
glow appear, much to the excitement of all watching.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

‘-.......-._..._..<. ..

Nov. 1937

The Outsider

ALICE FIELD HALE

Outside the gates of Paradise he’ll wait:
This little dog who died the other day,
For Some One that he loved once went that

way,

And he may glimpse her, passing, through
the gate.

Six Christian Churchmen said it was not
meet

That his small heart should ﬁnd its well-
earned rest

Within the churchyard, on the brown
earth’s breast,

Crouched—as in life—at his dear Lady’s

feet.
Strange! That the little chap must wait
outside!

He had the virtues of the best of us;

Such casual treatment seems ungenerous;

But—given orders—courteously he’ll bide:

Waiting, perhaps, till I have chance to
speak

With Christ, who loved each faithful
follower.

“Jerry”
GRIGGORY DOLE

ACH night, as the 6:43 slowed in to a

suburb of Providence, Frank Jackson
would watch for him out of the car window.
He was a young collie, nearly all yellow
with white markings. He would sit, watch-
ing, with his head high above his fore paws,
on the grass at the corner of King and
Depot Street, across from the cinder rail-
road embankment. The instant the locomo-
tive appeared above him, Jerry was on his
feet and away. With big leaps down the
path that the commuters had worn through
the grass, he came, running alongside the
cars as they slowly slackened in speed.

When the train had stopped and Jackson
came down the steps, Jerry would be wait-
ing, with his tongue quivering and his
bushy tail waving violently. His head
would be turned up to his master and he
would move up close behind him. Jackson
always gave the dog’s head a friendly pat
by way of greeting and exclaimed, “Good
old Jerry!” And then the two would walk
down the street to Jackson’s quiet home
under the elms. If another friend walked
with Jackson, Jerry would follow politely
behind, but if Jackson went alone, Jerry
walked by his side.

Winter and summer, through heat and
cold, rain or shine, Jerry met his master.
It became an old story to the commuters.
Even the engineer would wave his hand to
the collie as he brought the train in. Other
commuters watched for the dog, too. They
had learned his name and in summer they
would call out to him through the open
windows. But Jerry never gave the slight-
est heed. With head down and feet ﬂying,
he would race alongside the train, intent
only on reaching the station in time to
greet his master.

The sight of Jerry running beside his
window came to affect Jackson more and
more pleasantly. It put him in a warm
glow; sometimes, after a hard day at the
ofﬁce, he felt an odd tightening of the
throat when he ﬁrst saw the dog. He came

OUR

to realize that whenever Jerry
ran after his train, it meant
he was coming Home.

Jackson was happy in those
days. He didn’t know how
happy till success came to him
later on. He had worked hard,
and after six years his com-
pany rewarded him by making
him a branch manager in the
West. As the new position re-
quired a great deal of travel-
ing, Jerry had to be disposed
of in a hurry.

Jackson was now “on the
way up.” In twenty years he
had risen to a vice—presidency
in the ﬁrm. His income was
large: he had two big homes,
stables, a kennel and servants
galore. But his wife had died,
his health was poor, and when
he wasn’t worrying about the
company’s affairs, he was
troubled over his own invest—
ments.

Sometimes as he sat at his
large desk, he thought of the
old days. He remembered the
contentment, his small, restful
home, and Jerry running each
night to greet him at the sta-
tion. What had become of the
old dog, he wondered.

One day he decided to ﬁnd

HUME ANIMALS

Page 167

 

Photo by W. Henry Boller
“PATSY”—JUST A DOG

 

out. He sent out a high-salaried detective.
The man went back to the village and
searched high and low. He inquired every-
where. But nobody any longer knew any-
thing about Jerry.

When the man returned with his disap-
pointing news, Jackson said nothing. For
a long time afterward he sat in thought.
The truth came to him in the end. Serenity
and Jerry,—both had gone out of his life
together.

The Loiterer
AILEEN O’LEARY

HE sun burned relentlessly down and

gripped countless cities in one great
heat wave. There were shadier places to
loiter than on the hot cement sidewalks of
the business section of Dayton, Ohio. Yet
he was different from the general run of
loiterers found on city streets. His coat
was shabby and the absence of a collar
emphasized the skinniness of his neck.

He seemed homeless and alone. His eyes
held a world of appeal as they shifted from
one wilted pedestrian to another. Now and
then friendly looks met his and fanned the
spark of courage that made him cling to
life. He did not spoil this interchange of
friendliness by asking for a dime for a cup
of coffee, or carfare to a destination where
there might be work. He knew the value of
silence and sometimes fell into step with an
understanding passerby.

He neared the intersection of Fourth and
Jefferson streets. Mirrored in the chro-
mium basin of the water font, the sun
splashed spots of dazzling light on all who
approached the pedestal. A few stopped to
drown their thirst.

He moistened his lips and looked long-
ingly at the orange-colored contraption.

When the coast was clear he, likewise, bent
over the silver basin which dried at his
touch. His thirst mounted until it became
an inner agony. He made way for an
elderly gentleman, and the sound of rip-
pling water seemed to dry the blood in his
veins. He opened his mouth and gulped in
air to cool his parching throat. He uttered
a slight groan and then looked beseechingly
into the eyes that suddenly met his.

“Thirsty as the dickens, aren’t you?”
muttered the stranger. With his foot still
on the pedal, he moved aside that the other
might drink.

Water, cool and inviting, flowed forth,
making a silver arch that ended in a tiny
foam of sparkling bubbles. The loiterer
opened his parched lips, moistened his
tongue on the rising jet, and drank great
long gulps of the thirst-quenching liquid.

“Done like a veteran!” exclaimed the eld-
erly Samaritan. “Had enough, old boy?”

The sad brown eyes looked up into the
kind grey ones. Mute gratitude glowed in
their depths. Then, wagging his tail, the
gaunt creature turned away and sauntered
off, police-dog fashion.

The most famous dye in all the world——
Tyrian purple—owes its discovery to a dog.
Upon a Mediterranean beach, more than a
thousand years before the birth of Christ,
roamed this dog who hunted and ate the
little ﬁsh called conchilis. Somebody, who
cared enough about dogs to notice them
carefully, observed that the animal’s lips
and mouth were stained purple. Investi—
gation showed the color to come from the
ﬁsh it was eating.

In making your will, please remember
the Massachusetts Society for the Preven-
tion of Cruelty to Animals.

 

 

 

 




 

 

Dec. 1937

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

 

 

The Christmas Puppy

MARY AGNES COLVILLE

“See all the Christmas shoppers,

And what a merry throng!

That couple, there, are pricing me;
I guess it won’t be long

Until I’ll wear a ‘sold’ tag,
And leave this little shop.

Oh dear, it’s so exciting,
My heart’s going plop-plop-plop.

Oh, goody, I’ve been taken!
We leave at once for home;

Now I’ll belong to someone,
And have folks of my own.

I am the children’s present——
That ﬁlls me with delight;

I hope, though, they’ll have training
In treating pet dogs right.”

A Big Little Animal Lover

JOHN FEEN

ALITTLE girl in Oklahoma, Janice Sharon, but seven
years old, fully realizes the deplorable plight of the

homeless creatures who are forsaken on the dusty road that .

passes her country home. Janice already has saved more than
twenty homeless cats and dogs from a painful death under the
crushing wheels of an automobile or a more prolonged demise
from slow starvation.

It all started a few months ago, when Janice was returning
home from town with her father. Just off the main highway
she spied a lone kitten scampering blindly from the path of a
speeding motorist. At her insistence, Mr. Sharon stopped and
allowed Janice to take the frightened animal home. A few
days later, Janice picked up another castoff; this time it was
a dirty ﬂea—bitten puppy. Before the week was out she in—
creased the four-footed personnel of the barnyard by adopting
a pair of snow white kittens. Business was on the boom for
Janice but the cause of perplexed wrinkles on the perspiring
brows of her hard-working father and mother. She was al-
lowed to keep the two white kittens but was informed that the
other kitten and puppy must be given away. Obediently,
Janice solicited the neighboring farms until she found com-
fortable homes for her young charges.

The matter might have ended then and there if the Sharon
family had not found a half-starved female collie whining
pitifully at their gate. Homeless, friendless and unwanted, the
poor animal begged for food and care. Janice and Mrs. Sharon
were moved to tears and Patrick Sharon tenderly took the
collie to the barn. ‘

That night the Sharon family, after much discussion, de-
termined that not only would Janice be allowed to save aban-
doned animals from the dangers of the highway, but that her
parents would aid in ﬁnding homes for the four-footed un-
fcrtunates.

Today the plan is meeting with huge success. And it is all
being done because a kind little girl with a great big heart
really and truly does love animals.

 

 

 

 

 

 

MAY CHRISTMAS COME TO EVERY HOME!

 

Just Pigs
VIOLA COLLINS HOGARTY

VERY foreigner who lives in Mexico enjoys watching the

pigs for they are treated by the average Mexican of the
poorer class (the peon class) much as we would treat a dog.
Their pig is their friend.

In a peon’s one-roomed, sod—roofed hut with its dirt ﬂoor,
the pig is very much at home. He grunts in and out of the
patio door and mingles in the one room with the chickens, cats
and children. He sleeps in a corner of the room if he cares to
and feels quite at home.

The Mexican peon washes his pig so that its skin and short
coarse hair are clean. Piggy looks almost attractive. When
necessity forces a peon to sell his pig, he washes and brushes
it, ties a rope to one hind leg and one fore leg and they start
oﬁ‘ to walk to market. Piggy is not led; he is driven and guided
by the rope on his legs. When pig or the peon get tired they
sit down by the road. The pig rests its head on the peon’s feet
or against his knee and both take a nap until ready to go on.

There seems to be a feeling of comradeship between the pig
and his owner. The pig leads the way to market with seldom
a grunt, for

The way will be long and the trip will be slow,
To market, to market the piggy must go,

But owner and piggy will rest by the way;
The more piggy’s tired, the less he will weigh.

Christmas Day is one of the happiest, perhaps the very hap-
piest, of all the days in the year for you, isn’t it? Why not
try to share that happiness with some animal by bringing good
cheer into its life? Our pets require not only food and drink
but they crave affection.

 




 

 

.«"

 

 

I

 

. THE MASSACHUSETTS SOCIETY FOR THE
‘ PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS
? and THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION
SOCIETY ~ +,

 

 

   

 

 

ck ‘

1‘

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

May, 1937

 

Founded by Geo. T. Angel]. Incorporated March, 1868

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds
JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First
Boston Corporation
CHARLES G. BANCROEI‘, Vice-President, United Shoe
Machinery Corporation

PHILIP STOCKTON, President, First National Bank of
Boston

Prosecuting Oﬁcers in Boston
Telephone (Complaints, Ambulances) LongwoodSlOO
L. WILLARD WALKER, Chief Officer
HARRY L. ALLEN DAVID A. BOLTON
HARVEY R. FULLER. HOWARD WILLAND

County Prosecuting Ofﬁcers
HERMAN N. DEAN, Boston
Middlesex, Norfolk and Plymouth
FRED T. VICKERS, Lynn Eastern Essex
WILLIAM W. HASWELL, Methuen Western Essex
FRED F. HALL, Springfield
Hampden, Hampshire and Franklin
ROBERT L. DYSON, Worcester Worcester
CHARLES E. BROWN, AttlebOro Bristol
HAROLD G. ANDREWS, Hyannis
Barnstable, Dukes and Nantucket
T. KING HASWELL, Pittsfield Berkshire

Rest Farm for Horses and Small Animal Shelter,
ethuen

W. W. HASWELL, Superintendent

Taunton Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.—MRS.
HOWARD F. WOODWARD, Pres.; MRS. THOS. H. CAS-
WELL, Sec.

Women’s Auxiliary of the Mass. S. P. C. A., 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston—MRS. EDITH WASHBURN
CLARKE, Pres.; MRS. HARRY COLE, Treas.; MRS.
AGNES P. FISHER, Ch. Work Com. First Tuesday.

Springﬁeld Branch Auxiliary—MRS. DONALD C.
KIBBE, Pres.; MRS. HERBERT F. PAYNE, Treas. Second
Thursday.

Winchester Branch Auxiliary—MRS. RICHARD S.
TAYLOR, Pres.; MISS BESSII SMALL, Treas. Second
Thursday.

Fitchburg Branch, Am. Humane Education Soc.—
MRS. EDITH WASHBURN CLARKE, Pres.; CAPT. WIL-
LIAM K. YOUNGLOVE, Treas.

MONTHLY REPORT OF SOCIETY
AND BRANCHES

Miles traveled by humane ofﬁcers. . 14,685

Cases investigated ............... 413
Animals examined ............... 3,425
Animals placed in homes ......... 193
Lost animals restored to owners. . . 66
Number of prosecutions .......... 4
Number of convictions ............ 4
Horses taken from work ........... l3
Horses humanely put to sleep. . . . 57

Small animals humanely put to sleep 1,408

Stock-yards and Abattoirs

Animals inspected ................ 68,674
Cattle, swine and sheep humanely
put to sleep .................... 76

Our readers are urged to clip from “Our
Dumb Animals” various articles and request
their local editors to republish. Copies so
mutilated will be made good by us upon
application.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Page 73

A Picture We Dislike to Publish

 

 

ANGELL MEMORIAL ANIMAL
HOSPITAL

and Dispensary for Animals
184 Longwood Avenue Telephone, Longwood 6100

Veterinarians

H. F. DAILEY, v.M.D., Chief of Staff
R. H. SCHNEIDER, v.M.D., Asst. Chief
E. F. SCHROEDER, D.V.M.
G. B. SC‘HNELLE, v.M.D.
T. O. MUNSON, v.M.D.
C. L. BLAKELY, v.M.D.
HARRY L. ALLEN", Superintendent

Springfield Branch

Telephone 4-7355
53-57 Bliss Street, Springﬁeld, Mass.
Veterinarians

R. EVANS, v.M.D.
L.

A.
H. SMEAD, D.V.M.

 

 

 

HOSPITAL REPORT FOR MARCH
Including Springﬁeld Branch

Hospital Dispensary
Cases entered 828 Cases 2,414
Dogs 606 Dogs 2,006
Cats 211 Cats 366
Birds 5 Birds 29
Coats 3 Coats 5
Horses 2 Horses 3
Monkey 1 Monkeys 2
Rabbit 1
Cow 1
Guinea Pig 1

Operations 926

Hospital cases since opening, Mar.

1, 1915 ...................... 148,361
Dispensary cases ............... 362,658
Total ............ 511,019

The Month in the Springﬁeld Branch
Cases entered in Hospital .......... 136
Cases entered in Dispensary ....... 534
Operations ....................... 205

The Women’s Auxiliary of the Massa-
chusetts S. P. C. A. will hold open house
at the Rest Farm for Horses at Methuen,
June 1. Friends and members of the
Society are invited.

HIS picture is an illustration of how

possible it is under the laws of this
Commonwealth for meat utterly unﬁt for
consumption to be passed on to the public.
These cattle were found in Southbridge by
our representative, Robert L. Dyson, with
headquarters in 'Worcester, on March 12,
1937. They were bought in Woodstock,
Connecticut. Unable to stand, they had to
be loaded. on the truck with block and falls.
They were then transported to Auburn,
then to Worcester, then back to South-
bridge, at which time they were again un-
loaded with block and falls. They were
so emaciated because of being underfed, so
weak from suffering and bruises, that our
ofﬁcer had them at once destroyed and the
meat condemned.

A complaint was issued against the
owner for cruelly transporting, trial was
set for March 19, continued by request of
the counsel for the defendant, and ﬁnally
took place April 2. The man pleaded not
guilty, was found guilty and was ﬁned $75,
which he paid.

Had our ofﬁcer not discovered this situa-
tion, these poor, sick, starved creatures it
was evidently the purpose of the owner to
butcher, dress and get the carcasses
passed, if possible, for food. How much of
this sort of business goes on undiscovered
it is impossible to say. However, our ofﬁ-
cers throughout the state are constantly
visiting these small slaughter—houses en—
deavoring to see that such law as we have
for local inspection is Observed.

The silkworm really isn’t a worm at all
but is the larval stage of a moth. The silk
is obtained from the cocoon built by the
larva as it enters the pupal stage.

The Massachusetts Society for the Pre-
vention of Cruelty to Animals has been
remembered in the wills of Madelaine En-
dicott Boutwell of Boston, Edward L.
Giddings of Beverly, Gilman F. Morse of
Orange and Agnes M. Lindsay of Bridge-
water.

April 13, 1937.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

a

,

 

 

 

    

 

THE MASSACHUSETTS SOCIETY FOR THE

PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS
and THE AMERICAN I-IUMANE EDUCATION

SOCIETY ~

.2”

//

%/%
,7 ,/

. J.
%’///.. (/IVW/We ﬂ.»
WV... Inﬁ/w/J/ﬂ“ .10

x ,w/z
%V%

x, ,. 5/5
5/? .
7%,

a
a

/

.. ”,4 45741.
%%
x/ // gig?

WW,

 

/ 7”, z
172., .
x/J

 

 

 




 

 

Aug. 1937

 

Photo by Boston Post

Dog Wins Diploma

When Alexander D’Amato, Jr., thirteen
years old, graduated from the grammar
school in Abington, Mass, last June, he
was awarded a diploma. At the same time
his pet airedale, “Jack,” who has attended
school with him every day for the past
eight years, was also given a diploma. It
is reported that all this time, while Jack
solemnly sat in a corner of the schoolroom,
he never once disturbed the dignity of the
place, although, on graduation day, one re-
porter said: “With a knowing look in his
eye, the dog wagged his tail joyfully and
proudly exhibited his sheepskin.” The
diplomas were handed in person by Super—
intendent Record to Alexander, and now
hang on a wall in the D’Amato home.

Boots for Dogs and Oxen
EWEN K. PATTERSON

N Java (East Indies) old rubber automo-

bile tires are never wasted; in fact, every
year many thousands of old tires are even
imported into Java from other countries.
They are used solely for making boots for
oxen!

A single ox may wear out as many as
two dozen pairs of these rubber boots in a
year; that is why there is always a big
demand for old tires in Java, where the
dealers pay good prices, especially for the
thicker truck tires.

Another country where animals are pro—
vided with footwear is Australia. Through-
out the sheep districts of Australia hundreds
of dogs are employed to guard and round—
up sheep on the big sheep-stations or
ranches (some of which run as many as
half a million sheep), and the majority of
these dogs wear boots; they have to as a
protection against burrs and thorns, which
would otherwise lacerate and, in some cases,
poison their feet. The boots are made out
of soft bag leather. The dogs soon realize
the value of the footwear to them, and they
never fail to give their master a reminder
should he forget to put the boots on in

“the morning before starting work.

The animals quickly wear out a set of
boots, but the boots can be purchased cheaply.

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Page 119

Animals and Birds of the Bible

NORMAN C. SCHLICHTER

ORTY—TWO animals and thirty—ﬁve

birds are mentioned by Bible writers.

Sheep have the honor of ﬁrst men—

tion in Genesis IV, although the camel was

perhaps the earliest animal enlisted in the

service of man. Camels enter the Bible
narrative in the history of Abraham.

Cattle were used from the beginning of
history for man’s sustenance and are prom-
inent among Biblical animals.

There are at least 130 references to the
lion, which shows how common and well
known it was in Bible times in Bible lands.
Now it is unknown west of the Euphrates.
Usually the courage, dignity and power of
this beast are made symbolic of lofty and
powerful divine and human attributes. But
the lion’s cunning and ferocity also help to
picture vividly Satanic actions and forces.

The Biblical uses of the ass and the
horse are most interesting. The former is
always a symbol of peace, since it was the
faithful beast of burden. The horse always
symbolizes war and conﬂict and lordly con-
quest since it was used only in the pursuits
of war. Happily, a time of peace among
nations is foretold in Zechariah XIV when
the words, “holiness unto the Lord,” will be
written upon the bells of horses.

All Bible readers regret that our present—
day favorite among animals, the dog, was
not a friend or companion of man in the
East. And so almost every one of the 40
references to the dog is one of contempt.
Even today narrow-minded Mohammedans
use dog as a term of reproach for Chris-
tians.

The translation of the Hebrew word for
“sea—monster” as “whale” in the King
James version has brought great Biblical
prominence to this mammoth of the animal
kingdom. The writer of Lamentations shows
an intimate knowledge of the habits of the
whale.

Swine, bats and the innocent conies are
given the opprobrium of “unclean.”

The ape gets a place in the list of the
precious things which Solomon imported
from Tharshish. As the Hebrew word is

identical with the South Indian name of
the ape Biblical scholars hold that Solomon’s
Tharshish must have been in southern India
or in Ceylon.

The goat and the wolf, still a menace in
Bible lands, are among the frequently—men-
tioned animals, and the elephant’s ivory
wins him a reference.

Of Bible birds, the dove and the eagle
soar in its pages the oftenest. But this
Bible eagle is not our eagle but rather the
great griffon vulture. A most majestic bird,
it has much in common with our winged
lords of the air for the ancient Scriptural
writers speak of its swiftness, its keen sight,
its careful training of its young and of its
use of the dizziest of heights for nests.
Like our eagles, these Oriental birds live to
a very ripe old age. These Bible eagles com-
monly attain to a hundred even in conﬁne—
ment.

The dove is mentioned 50 times.

Our domestic poultry are not mentioned
until after the Captivity. Then chickens
came into Palestine from India by way of
Persia. The Master of men must have been
greatly attached to chickens for he men-
tions the hen as symbolic of God’s love in
some of his tenderest utterances.

The Hebrew word for sparrow occurs
40 times. But it is used indiscriminately
for other birds and fowl as well as for the
sparrow.

The swan, along with the heron, falls in
the list of “unclean” birds. But it is thought
that this translation really refers to the
purple water hen, or sacred ibis, an Egyp-
tian object of idolatrous veneration.

The habits of the raven are frequently
portrayed, and the story of Elijah’s feed—
ing of these birds make ravens among the
most famous of Bible birds.

The owl, the little owl, the great owl
and the screech owl are all noted one or
more times.

Every writer who refers to animals or
birds does so with the most accurate knowl-
edge of their habits and habitats.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

THE MASSACH
‘ PREVENTION
anleI-IE AME
SOCIETY N

  

 

CARAVAN ABOUT TO MOVE, NEAR THE SAHARA DESERT

Swift Photo

, //.
ﬁvﬂv/WW? .1 ,1.
uﬁV/y/xﬂ/ r/a

” /.

OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS

USETTS SOCIETY FOR THE
RICAN l-IUMANE EDUCATION

 




OUR ‘DUMB ANIMALS

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 141;

Ye Melancholy Crow

CLARENCE M. LINDSAY

I like the melancholy crow,
Perched on some leafless limb;
What though his song sounds harsh, I know
Life’s none too soft for him.
They say he pulls the growing corn,
And helps himself to fruit;
Wherefore they hold him up to scorn,
And damage his repute.

But I——I doubt if he’s so black
As some would have us b’lieve;

For oftentimes he takes a snack
Of insects we conceive

As pests to harassed planters; so
Let’s give the crow his due!

He may eat corn—yet he’s the foe
Of grubs and beetles, too.

I know November ﬁelds would be
More sombre, were there not

A crow perched on each bleak-limbed tree
In ev’ry pasture lot.

His “caw-caw-caw”——familiar sound;
Blends with the autumn calm;

And I, for one, am glad he’s ’round;
He’s welcome on my farm.

Bird Friends of Man

NTIL a few years ago, thousands of
robins wintered in the thick woods
along Choctawhatchee Bay 1n northwest
Florida. They feasted, on thewmillions of
bugs and insects that prey ‘ongflrhvegetation.
A few winters ago hunters decided that
robins—enough of them—made good pot—
pies and stews. They went at night to the
robin roosts and killed thousands of the
birds, knocking them off into bags. In one
patch of vine—tangled woods where the rob-

ins roosted low, ten thousand were killed. '

Now very few robins are seen in this
section of Florida. Those who do stop are
on their way north and only tarry for a
day or two. The result is that bugs and
insects of all kinds have multiplied to an
alarming extent. They eat vegetation that
man tries to raise for his family; they
swarm in the houses. Everybody has to use
quantities of insect powder to keep the bugs
out of the houses.

Salt for Animals and Birds

A correspondent from Michigan wishes
us to pass along the following to our read-
ers, which we are pleased to do:

“We have a stone seat on the lawn, and
under this seat, on the ground, we keep a
lump of salt. Rabbits and squirrels, and
even birds visit this spot and eat the salt
until it is round and smooth.

“I should hardly have believed birds
would partake of it if I had not seen them
pick up grains of salt and ﬂy away with
them. Squirrels and rabbits spend ﬁve
minutes at a time eating or nibbling the
lump.

“Their enjoyment is so evident it is a
pleasure to furnish this simple item for
them. The animals are regular visitors,
winter and summer.”

MRS. M. M. LYONS

Many birds and animals, except the car-

nivorous, have a strong predilection for
salt.

Amimal Stories for

Little Folk

L. E. EUBANKS

HERE never was a time when stories

of animals occupied a larger place in
education than they do today. Years ago
they were used merely as a means of enter—
tainment—to distract the little fellow’s at-
tention, to keep him indoors, to lull him to
sleep, etc.

Today they not only continue to serve all
the original purposes but constitute the
fundamentals of an important educational
element, natural history and animal lore.
Their importance to character development,
inculcating the principles of kindness, is
still more to be considered, sufﬁcient reason
of itself for their perpetuity and universal
use by parents and teachers.

Discussing various forms, one authority
mentions stories in which the animals talk
together in the language of human beings;
those in which they are overheard and
understood by humans; those in which they
talk freely and understandingly with a
person. The “Sheep and the Pig who Set
Up Housekeeping” is an example of the
ﬁrst type. “True and Untrue,” from
“Popular Tales from the Norse,” is an
example of the second; “How. Pete Found
his Fortune” is an example‘of the third
type. . -

The modern animal story givesits char-
acters the instincts, emotions and almost
the reasoning powers of human beings.
Fear has been expressed that this depar—
ture from literal truth may confuse the
young child; but a trial always proves the
youngster more perspicacious than his eld-
ers have believed.

Do not fear that the animals of Kipling
stories and those of Ernest Thomson-Seton
are too human. As long as the animal’s
conduct is morally such as a good person’s
would be under similar conditions, your
main purpose is being achieved; for it is the
result that will register most deeply—on
young or old.

Esenwein tells of a group of children who
had listened to the story “Thumbelina,”
and asked to see a grasshopper. They were
taken into their garden to ﬁnd one. After
hearing the story of “The Caterpillar and
the Butterﬂy,” they were fascinated to see
a caterpillar eat and grow sleepy, then
later spin his cocoon. When the butterﬂy
emerged, they fed it sugar and water from
their ﬁngertips, and ﬁnally sent it ﬂying
across the garden “into the beautiful world
beyond.”

Along with their stories of birds, they

by it.

 

 

 

TO OUR FRIENDS

In making your will, kindly bear in mind that the corporate title of our Society is
“The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals”; that it is the
second incorporated (March, 1868) Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals
in the country, and that it has no connection with any other similar Society.

Any bequest especially intended for the beneﬁt of the Angell Memorial Animal
Hospital should, nevertheless, be made to The Massachusetts Society for the Preven-
tion of Cruelty to Animals “for the Use of the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital,” as
the Hospital is not incorporated but is the property of that Society and is conducted

FORM OF BEQUEST
I give to The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (or
to the American Humane Education Society), the sum of ....................
dollars (or, if other property, describe the property).

Sept. 1937

saw the nests of familiar ﬂyers, saw their
pet canaries build their homes and raise
their young. So the children were given
their ﬁrst knowledge of the beginnings of
life. It is easy and simple for the thought-
ful guide to lead the child along these
paths of his natural interests, away from
the fear and horror of animal life which
obsesses some wrongly—taught children, and
into a fuller appreciation of the mystery
and wonder of all life. It is so that he
comes, like the immortal Kim, to ﬁnd him-
self in truth, “little brother of all the
world.”

Any librarian can assist a parent in
ﬁnding animal stories suitable to the child’s
age; and, incidentally, the parent, whether
he reads the book directly to the child or
to himself, with a View to re—telling it, will
himself often become considerably inter-
ested. A child doesn’t have to be very old
to derive a great deal from London’s “Call
of the Wild,” for instance, and thousands of
adults have found that story intensely in-
teresting.

As we all know, a child can enjoy the
same story time after time, and for this
reason his favorites should be readily avail-
able. His desire to accumulate books about
animals should be encouraged, and with
books so inexpensive there is no reason for
any home to be Without them.

Many insects possess various protective
devices. These devices are hairs, stings,
odors, ﬂavors, and irritants. In the Eastern
states only cuckoos will feed on hairy cater-
pillars. Blister beetles with their irritant
ﬂuids are apparently immune from all but
the kingbird. —-Utah Farmer

 

 

Our Dumb Animals

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,

Massachusetts. Boston Ofﬁce: 180 Longwood Av-
enue.

Address all communications to Boston.

TERMS

One dollar per year. Postage free to any part of

the world.

. All dollar subscriptions sent direct to the ofﬁce en-
t1tle' the sender to membership in either of our two
Someties.

RATES OF MEMBERSHIP IN

THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
OR THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.
Active Life $100 00

. . Active Annual 10 00

Associate Life 50 00 Associate Annual $ 5 00

Sustaining 20 00 . Annual 1 00
Children’s $0.75

Checks and other payments may be sent to ALBERT
%. tPOLLARD, Treasurer, 180 Longwood Avenue,
os on.

Manuscripts should be addressed to the Editor, 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

Feb. 1937

 

Founded by Geo. T. Angell. Incorporated March, 1868

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds
JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First
Boston Corporation
CHARLES G. BANCROEI‘, Vice-President, United Shoe
Machinery Corporation
PHILIP STOCKTON, President, First National Bank of
Boston

Prosecuting Ofﬁcers in Boston
Telephone (Complaints, Ambulances) Longwood6100
L. WILLARD WALKER, Chief Officer
HARRY L. ALLEN DAVID A. BOLTON
HARVEY R. FULLER HOWARD WILLAND

County Prosecuting Ofﬁcers

HERMAN N. DEAN, Boston
Middlesex, Norfolk and Plymouth
FRED T. VICKERS, Lynn Eastern Essex
WILLIAM W. HASWELL, Methuen Western Essex
FRED F. HALL, Springfield
Hampden, Hampshire and Franklin
ROBERT L. DYSON, Worcester Worcester
CHARLES E. BROWN, Attleboro Bristol
HAROLD G. ANDREWS, Hyannis
Barnstable, Dukes and Nantucket
T. KING HASWELL, Pittsfield Berkshire

Rest Farm for Horses and Small Animal Shelter,
Methuen
W. W. HASWELL, Superintendent

Taunton Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.——MRS.
HOWARD F. WOODWARD, Pres.; MRS. THOS. H. CAs-
WELL, Sec.

Women’s Auxiliary of the Mass. S. P. C. A., 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston—MRS. EDITH WASHBURN
CLARKE, Pres.; MRS. HARRY COLE, Treas.; MRS.
AGNES P. FISHER, Ch. Work Com. First Tuesday.

Springﬁeld Branch Auxiliary—MRS. DONALD C.
KIBBE, Pres.; MRS. HERBERT F. PAYNE, Treas. Second
Thursday.

Winchester Branch Auxiliary—MRS. RICHARD S.
TAYLOR, Pres.; MISS BESSIE SMALL, Treas. Second
Thursday.

Fitchburg Branch, Am. Humane Education Soc.—
MRS. EDITH WASHBURN CLARKE, Pres.; CAPT. WIL-
LIAM K. YOUNGLOVE, Treas.

MONTHLY REPORT OF SOCIETY
AND BRANCHES

Miles traveled by humane ofﬁcers . 13,599
Cases investigated ............. . 457
Animals examined ............. 4,899
Animals placed in homes ........ 153
Lost animals restored to owners . . . 50
Number of prosecutions ........ 4
Number of convictions .......... 4 '
Horses taken from work ......... 7
Horses humanely put to sleep. . . . 156

Small animals humanely put to sleep 1,318
Stock-yards and Abattoirs
Animals inspected
Cattle, swine and sheep humanely
put to sleep .................. 24

The Massachusetts Society for the Pre—
vention of Cruelty to Animals has been re-
membered in the wills of Sarah W. Wight
of Boston, Ellen M. Brown of Marblehead,
Sarah Barnes Fisk of Somerville, George P.
Cushing of Hingham, Mrs. Emily Ainsley
of Boston, and Alice L. Stickney of Nashua,
N. H. January 12, 1937

53,737

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

ANGELL MEMORIAL ANIMAL
HOSPITAL

and Dispensary for Animals
184 Longwood Avenue Telephone, Longwood 6100

Veterinarians

. DAILEY, V.M.D., Chief of Staﬁ

. SCHNEIDER, V.M.D., Asst. Chief

. SCHROEDER, D.V.M.

. SC‘HNELLE, V.M.D.

. MUNSON, V.M.D.

. BLAKELY, V.M.D.

HARRY L. ALLEN, Superintendent

OHQFJ’EUFL‘.
F‘Otd’ijm’ii

Springﬁeld Branch

53—57 Bliss Street, Springﬁeld, Mass.
Veterinarians
. EVANS, V.M.D.
. SMEAD, D.V.M.

IT‘PU

A.
H.

 

 

 

HOSPITAL REPORT FOR DECEMBER
Including Springﬁeld Branch

Hospital Dispensary
Cases entered 993 Cases 2,813
Dogs 733 Dogs 2,372
Cats 249 Cats 401
Birds 7 Birds 20
Rabbits 2 Goats 17
Goat 1 Horse 1
Boa constrictor 1 Pig 1

Monkey 1

Operations 1,044
Hospital cases since Opening, Mar.

 

1, 1915 ........................ 145,798
Dispensary Cases ................ 354,920
Total ................ 500,718

The Month in the Springﬁeld Branch
Cases entered in Hospital ............ 165
Cases entered in Dispensary .......... 583
Operations .......................... 230

Tit for Tat

This story of a dog’s sense of humor ap-
peared in the Journal of the English R. S.
P. C. A.:

An elderly lady rented a furnished villa
for the summer, and with the villa went
a dog. In the sitting-room there was a
comfortable chair, for which the old lady
always made the ﬁrst thing each morning.
But, alas! It was also the favorite seat of
the dog. She invariably found it occupied.
Being afraid of the dog she dared not smack
him to make him get off the chair, so she
would go to the window and call out “Cats.”
Then the dog would rush to the window and
bark, and the Old lady would slip into the
vacant chair.

One day the dog entered the room and
found the old lady already in possession of
the chair. He strolled to the window, and
looking out, began to bark excitedly. The
old lady rose and hastened to the window,
whereupon the dog climbed quickly onto the
chair!

No Harm Done

A true dog lover had presented a puppy
to a friend who called up in a few days,
quite excited. “Oh,” she wailed, “Skippy
has chewed off one corner of our best ori-
ental rug. What shall I do?” “Never
mind,” answered the dog lover soothingly.
“If it’s a real oriental the colors won’t hurt
him.” —Indianapolis News

Page 25
The Horses’ Christmas

OR the twentieth season, the Massa—

chusetts S. P. C. A. provided free
Christmas dinners for horses working on
the streets and in the downtown market
places in Boston. A large van, decorated
with an ornamental tree, and loaded with
individual bags of feed, was stationed at
India Square. With the aid of a small motor
car, a holiday treat consisting of oats, cut
apples and carrots was made available to
more than two hundred horses. Hot coffee
and doughnuts were supplied the drivers.
This annual custom is held as a deserving
recognition of the faithful service that the
horses are still rendering in the commercial
life of the city and is made possible by the
generosity of their constant friends.

Says the Boston Press of It:

It is pleasant to learn that the Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals is
to continue its custom of providing a Christ-
mas feast for the work horses in the city.
Most people may feel that there are ex-
tremely few horses in service noWadays,

but the contrary is the case.
—Boston Post

The Massachusetts Society for the Pre—
vention of Cruelty to Animals will, as has
been its custom, recognize the claims of the
many hundreds of horses still serving the
citizens of Boston by presenting each horse
with a bit of remembrance at the Christmas
season. —Boston Transcript

Years ago the Massachusetts Society for
the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals in-
augurated a happy Observance. During the
holiday season each year it sends trucks to
certain points where horses are to be found
in the greatest number and in lieu of
“Merry Christmas” the horses are ratloned
a generous serving of oats, carrots and
apples. —-Christian Science Monitor

A bit of remembrance at the Christmas
season for many hundreds of horses still
serving the citizens of Boston is again in—
cluded in the program ‘Of the Massachusetts
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals. —Boston Globe

It is characteristic of the good oﬂicesbf
the M. S. P. C. A. to arrange this Yuletlde
cheer for working horses which labor so

patiently and efﬁciently for mankind.
——Boston Record

Safe Annuity Bonds

HE Annuity Bonds of our two Soci-

eties are absolutely safe and yield a
return according to one’s age. They make
their appeal ordinarily to people over 40
years of age. Send the coupon for a free
folder which gives full details.
The Massachusetts S. P. C. A. (or)
The American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Ave., Boston, Mass.

Without obligation to me, please send me
the folder about your Annuity Bonds.
Name
Age
Address

oooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

Page 168

Our Dumb Animals

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston Ofﬁce: 180 Longwood Av-
enue, Boston, Mass., to which all communications
should be addressed.

Dr. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON, Editor
WILLIAM M. MORRILL, Assistant

 

NOVEMBER, 1937

 

 

 

FOR TERMS, see back cover.

AGENTS, to take orders for Our Dumb Animals are
wanted everywhere. Liberal commissions are offered.

EDITORS of all periodicals who receive this pub-
lication this month are invited to reprint any of the
articles with or without credit.

MANUSCRIPTS relating to animals, particularly
prose articles of about three hundred words, are solic-
ited. We do not Wish to consider prose manuscripts
longer than 800 words nor verse in excess of thirty-
six lines. The shorter the better. All manuscripts
should be typewritten and an addressed envelope with
full return postage enclosed with each offering.

 

 

 

 

The Dogs that Talk

N article in the J anuary-March issue
of Progress To-day, written by Baron—
ess von Freytag—Loringhoven of Weimar,
Germany, for many of us might well be
headed by the expression so common among
us today, “Believe it or not.” It is above all
the story of a dachshund “Kurwenal.” The
Baroness, the‘article tells us, is “one of the
outstanding intellectual women of Ger-
many.” It further says she is renowned as
a “painter whose pictures have been ex-
hibited not only abroad but in this country,
and that she is also “one of the most active
workers for the protection of animals.”
The article tells particularly, of her train—
ing of this remarkable dog. It contains a
quotation from General von Hoﬁ", from
Stuttgart, in a pamphlet he published in
which he pledged his “honor as a General”
on the truth of his statements to the ef-
fect that Kurwenal “talked to him alone
without the presence of the Baroness,”
The General further says, “I asked Kur-
wenal after he had quoted these four lines
of poetry (of course in German),

‘I love no one as much as you.
Love me too.
I should like you with me every day.
Of happiness a ray.’
‘Was it a ray of happiness for yourself?’
He replied, ‘No, for you.’ The next ques-
tion was, ‘Don’t you need happiness?’ ‘No.’
‘Then you are happy?’ ‘Very happy.’ ”

Professor Plate, from Jena, is also quoted
as stating that in an interview with Kur-
wenal the dog remarked, “If only he would
stop trying to trick me!” The professor
says the dog “said this while I had my
back to him and quietly drinking tea and
I was so thrilled by the answer that it con-
vinced me more than any of the previous
tests?’

The Baroness further says, “Kurwenal
speaks sometimes on religious matters and
questions me about all kinds of things. On
such an occasion he said, ‘I often pray,’
‘What do you pray for?’ ‘For you.’ ”

This whole article will seem absolutely
unbelievable to the majority of our readers,
but this well-known humanitarian journal,
Progress To-day, we are conﬁdent would
not give space to Kurwenal’s owner to tell

this story did it. not believe it was perfectly
veriﬁable. ‘

‘OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Ohio County Eliminates
Rabies

N following out a program for the hand-

ling of stray dogs and thereby solving the
“mad dog” problem, Cincinnati in Hamilton
County, under a city manager, has in ten
years achieved a complete success. This
has been accomplished through the full co-
operation of the county commissioners and
the Hamilton County S. P. C. A.. Under
the present dog law the commission has
appointed the superintendent of the S. P. C.
A. county dog warden, pays his salary and
has allotted funds for the construction and
maintenance of a dog pound, and other a1—
lowances as have been deemed necessary.

To show how well the plan and pro-
cedure have worked out, here are some sta-
tistics: In 1927, 205 cases of rabies were
reported in Cincinnati; 1928, 80 cases;
1929, 58 cases. Further decreases occurred
in 1930, ’31, ’32 and ’33.

Covering the period since that year, this
is the statement of Mr. Geo. C. .Kuhn,
secretary of the S. P. C. A.:

“We have not had a positive rabies case
in Hamilton County in 1934, 1935 nor 1936
and so far in 1937 we have found one rabid
dog which came into Hamilton County from
the State of Indiana.”

This is a remarkable record. It is attract-
ing the notice of other cities facing a sim-
ilar problem and they are inquiring about
the methods employed with a View to their
adoption.

Miss Mary C. Yarrow

In the death of Miss Mary Craige
Yarrow, who passed away suddenly at her
hotel in Philadelphia, on July 9 last, the
humane cause has lost a most devoted
friend and a very generous contributor both
of her talent in writing and of her means
used largely for the distribution of litera-
ture. Afﬂicted with disease which kept her
an invalid for many years, Miss Yarrow
was undaunted in her courage for active
service in the work of animal protection.
Besides conducting an extended correspond-
ence through the help of an amanuensis, she
wrote a number of leaﬂets, including “Two
Horses I have Known” and “A ‘Rich, Poor
Horse.’ ” Probably the last article penned
by her was the “Letter to Boy Scouts,” pub—
lished in the August number of Our Dumb
Animals. Her benefactions were bestowed
quietly but effectively, and many will rise
up to call her blessed.

A Dog Hero Passes

“Kentucky Boy,” famous airedale of
Hollywood, is no longer living. He died of
old age in September. Some years ago in
the picture studio section he barked a ﬁre
alarm and by so doing saved the lives of
many persons. His intelligent warning did
not pass unnoticed nor will it soon be for-
gotten. Nineteen medals were given to him
and Governor Rolph called him “The
Bravest Dog in California.” He was made
a member of the State Humane Association
and was decorated by the Latham Founda-
tion of Oakland. He was featured in the
newsreels and his bark was heard over the
radio by millions of listeners. Robert M.
Byrne had owned Kentucky Boy for over
ﬁfteen years.

Nov. 1937

-Be Kind to Animals Week

LTHOUGH it is several months be-

fore the advent of the annual Be Kind
to Animals Week and Humane Sunday, it is
not too early for societies and individuals
to begin to plan for their observance. In-
augurated back in 1915, this annual cele-
bration has become a national institution.
Through the schools, the press and radio,
and, to some extent, the pulpit, the humane
message is stressed as never before during
this particular week. It is, of course, be-
cause we wish to see every week a Be Kind
to Animals Week, that this movement was
started. Its success has been phenomenal,
and the Week is now established ﬁrmly
among the various special weeks of the
year. Any humane society that fails to
take advantage of this particular period in
which to engage in special activities, is
losing a golden opportunity. The dates se—
lected for 1938 are: Humane Sunday, April
24; Be Kind to Animals Week, April 25-30.
The reason the time is placed so late in
April, which has proved to be the best
month for the observance, is to avoid com-
ing too near to Easter. In due season both
the American Humane Association, Albany,
N. Y., and the American Humane Educa-
tion Society, Boston, Mass., will put out
special literature and posters for the event.

Law Regulating Roadside
Zoos

NE of the best laws, from a humane

standpoint, Michigan has ever had is
the new “roadside zoo” law that went into
effect recently.

All owners of zoos must show that they
came by animals in a lawful manner. No
animals may be tethered to stakes but must
have spacious pens or cages to which they
must be conﬁned at all times. These cages
must be large enough to allow freedom to
the animal or bird. The cages must be so
constructed that theanimal or bird can be
sheltered from direct rays of sun and pro—
tected from storm and cold. Quarters must
be kept clean. Animals must be fed the
proper food in proper amounts. Signs for-
bidding the annoying of these wild crea-
tures by on-lookers and forbidding the
feeding of injurious food to them must be
posted. Parking space for automobiles must
be provided. The Director of Conservation
can revoke the permit of, any owner if he is
caught violating any of these regulations.

In the past, animals and birds were tied
to stakes, many were half fed and seldom
watered. The public felt free to indulge in
teasing the poor creatures at any time.

In case of the illness of any animal it
must be removed and treated, or destroyed
in a humane way.

FERN BERRY

Stories of Arabian horses loosed by De
Soto’s Spaniards and of a shipload of Arabs
wrecked near Cape Hatteras still persist in
the South Atlantic states. Be that as it
may, it is true that the “marsh tacky” that
roams plantation, woodland, or savannah,
has some decidedly Arabian characteristics.
Among these are its sure footedness and en-
durance, its straight-ﬂowing mane and tail,
its powerful, ﬂat knee bones, and its small
hooves sloping steeply from their pasterns.

 




 

Page 1-92

Another Successful Fair

Women’s Auxiliary of Massachusetts S. P.
C. A. Hold Annual Event

HE spacious ballroom of the Copley
TPlaza Hotel, Boston, was transformed
into a colorful bazaar, Wednesday, Novem—
ber 10, on the occasion of the annual Fair
of the W'omen’s Auxiliary of the Massachu-
setts S. P. C. A. Beautiful ﬂowers, tempt-
ing foods, delicious confections, attractive
gowns and other wearing apparel, novelties
in great variety, all these and many other
articles were offered for sale for the bene—
ﬁt of the Angell Animal Hospital. Other
attractions included a largely attended
bridge, a real Indian fortune teller, another
soothsayer, and a “grab.”

Unusual enthusiasm greeted the intro-
duction by President Edith Washburn
Clarke of Arthur Sullivan, reporter on the
Herald, Bridgeport, Conn., and his Seeing-
Eye dog, “Boda.” Mr. Sullivan gave a de—
tailed account of the work of the Seeing-
Eye dogs in general and of his own Boda
in particular. Practical demonstrations
were given, showing just how the dog cares
for his master. The program included also
several songs by Mrs. Mary Nevery.

Mrs. Charles C. Hoyt, ﬁrst vice-president,
was the general chairman of the bazaar.
The luncheon was served under the direc-
tion of Mrs. Willard C. Bliss, assisted by
Mrs. George W. Bentley, Jr., Mrs. Albert
Lind, Mrs. George A. Ramlose, Mrs. Har-
riett B. Fischel, Mrs. Mitchell Allen, Mrs.
William G. Cooney, and Miss Wealthie
Strauss. The committee in charge of the
afternoon bridge was Mrs. Edward C.
Brown, chairman, Mrs. Charles Staniek,
Mrs. Arthur W. Hurlburt, Mrs. George
Suder, Mrs. Francis G. Carreiro, Mrs.
David C. Theall, Mrs. Fred W. Rice, Mrs.
S. R. Dow, and Miss M. E. Parker.

Other committees were: food table: Mrs.
Herbert E. Prescott, chairman, Mrs. Wil-
liam W. Haswell, Mrs. Marie Huntley, Miss
Marion Simpson, Mrs. Edward C. Brown,
Miss M. E. Parker; household table: Mrs.
David C. Theall, chairman, Mrs. Merrill T.
Butler, Mrs. Earl B. Richardson, Mrs.
Eleanor W. MacKenna, Mrs. Carrie F.
Brooks, Mrs. William A. Wheeler; litera—
ture: Miss Katherine Walker and Mrs.
Christine Walker; candy table: Mrs. Charles
F. Rowley, chairman, Miss Alice Rowley,
Mrs. Esmond Rowley, Mrs. A. L. Risley;
white elephant table: Mrs. Agnes P. Fisher,
chairman, Miss Efﬁe M. Lynch; flower
table: Mrs. Francis G. Carreiro, chairman,
Mrs. Albert T. Galpin, Mrs. Edward K.

OUR

Bennett, Mrs. Sally Hillman; fan: Mrs.
John A. Dykeman; punch: Mrs. George
Ramlose, chairman, Mrs. S. S. Sutclifl’e;
grabs: Miss Doris Greenlaw, chairman;
prophecy booths: Mrs. Frank E. Towne,
chairman; decorations: Mrs. George Bent-
ley, Jr., chairman.

The patronesses were: Mrs. Maurice J.
Tobin, Mrs. Charles G. Bancroft, Miss
Eleonora Sears, Mrs. William J. Under-
wood, Mrs. Charles Arthur Root, Mrs.
Channing Cox, Miss Dorothy Forbes, Mrs.
William Cox.

Greenville Humane Society

Congratulations to the Humane Society
of Greenville, South Carolina, which opened
its new animal shelter and bird sanctuary
on November 13 last. This is the ﬁrst
shelter to be opened in South Carolina and
one of the few in operation in the South.
With some $1,800 raised during the last
two years, the Society has been able to pur—
chase four acres of land, to erect a small
house for the caretaker, to install city water
and plumbing and build twelve individual
dog kennels and three individual cat ken—
nels, and three other buildings to be used
respectively for dog kennels and supply
room, stray cats, and stable and feed room.
In addition, a garage for use of lethal box
and a separate kitchen for preparing food
for the animals have been erected. All this
indicates great faith on the part of the tire-
less president, Miss J. M. Perry, and her
colleagues, that this new venture will be
adequately supported. We wish it the great--
est possible success.

Mrs. Rachel C. Hogue

Another veteran in the humane work
passed to her reward with the death, in San
Diego, California, on October 21 last, of
Mrs. Rachel C. Hogue. She had been con-
nected with the American Humane Educa-
tion Society as a ﬁeld worker for more than
a quarter of a century, though during re-
cent years she was obliged to give up her
activities due to ill health. She was an able
exponent of the humane cause and won
many friends Wherever she appeared, both
in schools and on the public platform. Her
ﬁeld was conﬁned largely to San Diego
County, where she was responsible for the
organization of a large number of Bands of
Mercy. She was a faithful and conscien-
tious worker, and will be remembered
gratefully by many who came under her
beneﬁcent inﬂuence.

 

by it.

 

TO OUR FRIENDS

In making your will, kindly bear in mind that the corporate title of our Society is
“The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals”; that it is the
second incorporated (March, 1868) Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals
in the country, and that it has no connection with any other similar Society.

Any bequest especially intended for the beneﬁt of the Angell Memorial Animal
Hospital should, nevertheless, be made to The Massachusetts Society for the Preven-
tion of Cruelty to Animals “for the use of the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital,” as
the Hospital is not incorporated but is the property of that Society and is conducted

FORM OF BEQUEST
I give to The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (or
to the American Humane Education Society), the sum of ....................
dollars (or, if other property, describe the property).

 

 

DUMB ANIMALS

Dec. 1937

 

IN THE EDITOR’S LIBRARY

 

CATS AND CATS: GREAT CAT
STORIES OF OUR DAY, Frances E.

, Clarke, compiler.

This is a companion book to Miss Clarke’s
“Valiant Dogs: Great Dog Stories of Our
Day,” which came out last year and is being
so favorably received by dog lovers. In
the new volume the compiler has collected
twenty-seven of the outstanding cat tales by
recent American and English writers, in-
cluding such well-known names as Walter
A. Dyer, Dorothy Canﬁeld Fisher, Lafcadio
Hearn, Sisley Huddleston, W. H. Hudson,
Sophie Kerr, William Lyon Phelps, Frank
Swinnerton, Carl Van Vechten, Charles
Dudley Warner and Mary E. Wilkins.
Probably nowhere else can be found such
an interesting and complete collection of
stories relating solely to the cat. Such lit-
erature is not anywhere near so voluminous
as is that relating to the dog, and in bring-
together this remarkable group of feline
studies Miss Clarke merits the warm ad-
miration and generous patronage of cat
lovers everywhere. The jacket is covered
with illustrations of cats in most appealing
poses.

841 pp. $2.50, net. The Macmillan Com-
pany, New York.

PHUDD HILL, Alan Devoe.

This collection of essays, from the pen of
a contributor to Our Dumb Animals, will
appeal to those nature lovers who love to
stroll leisurely through the woods and
ﬁelds, taking note of the minute happen-
ings around them. “I Live in the Country,”
“Tobias (a cat) : an Incident,” “The Mole,”
“Two Winter Encounters,”—-—these are a
few of the chapter headings. The book
has won warm praise from several high

literary authorities. John Cowper Powys-

writes: “It is beautifully and delicately
done. . . It is wonderful how deftly, ten-
derly Alan Devoe catches wandering im-
pressions and sets them down.”

153 pp. $2, net. Julian Messner, Inc.,
New York.

F1n1s

“Do you wish the court to understand
that you refuse to renew your dog license?”

“Yes, your honor, but—”

“We want no ‘buts.’ The license has ex—
pired.”

“Yes, and so has the dog.”

——Kableglram

Our Dumb Animals

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston Oﬂice: 180 Longwood Av—
enue.

Address all communications to Boston.

TERMS
One dollar per year. Postage free to any part of
the world.
. All dollar subscriptions sent direct to the ofﬁce en-
title the sender to membership in either of our two
Societies.

 

 

RATES OF MEMBERSHIP IN

THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
OR THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.

Active Life $100 00 Active Annual $10 00

Associate Life 50 00 Associate Annual 5 00

Sustaining 20 00 Annual 1 00
Children’s $0.75

Checks and other payments may be sent to ALBERT
g. tPOLLARD, Treasurer, 180 Longwood Avenue.
05 on.

Manuscripts should be addressed to the Editor, 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THE ABC OF
ATTRACTING BIRDS

By Alvin M. Peterson

Simple . . . inexpensive . . sure ways to make
your yard a year-round bird resort. $1.50
At your book store, or direct from

THE BRUCE PUBLISHING COMPANY
New York - Milwaukee - Chicago

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

effectively remove

Large Huundworms'& Huukwurms

Dependable,safe, easy-to-give worm treat—-
ment. Keep your dog worm free and thrifty.

WRITE FOR BOOKLET N0. 652

on the practical removal of worms
in Dogs of all breeds and ages.

ADDRESS DESK N-58—D
Animal Industry Dept,

PARKE, DAVIS & CO., DETROIT, MlCl-l.
Drug Stores Sell ParkeuDavis Products

   
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THIS SPACE
CONTRIBUTED

 

 

 

 

 

 

”Wu/”Inflow
Culicura

l SAMPLE EACH Pa-pREE' -‘CUTICURA. D9”. R5, MALDEN, MASS.

 

 

 

 

 

 

Since 1832

.l. S. WATERMAN & SONS, lnc.
Mnhertakers

BOSTON—BROOKLINE— CAMBRIDGE
City and Out-of-Town Service

 

 

 

 

Humane literature and Band of Mercy Supplies

for Be Kind to Animals Week, April 12-17
and Humane Sunday, April 11, 1937

For Sal-e at 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass, at these prices, postpaid.

Titles in bold-face type are of books or booklets

Humane Calendar for 1937 ........... each, 20 cts.
two for 35 cts.; six for $1.00; $1.80 per dozen
Our Dumb Animals, 1936, bound volume $1.00
Bound volumes for 1934 and 1935 ...... .75

Colored Posters, 17 x 28 inches, with

attractive pictures and verses, six in

the set ............................. 1.00
Be Kind to Animals Blotters, 6% x 3% $0.50 per 100

About the Horse

Black Beauty (English), cloth,... .$1.00 and 50 cts.
What Constitutes Cruelty, Francis H.

Rowley ........................ $0. 30 per 100
Humane Horse book, 32 pp., 5 cts. each or 5. 00

The Horse—Treatment of Sores, etc. .60 “ ‘
Humane Education Leaflet, No. 5 .50 :‘ :‘
The Horse’s Prayer .................. .30 ‘ ..
The Bell of Atri, poem by Longfellow .. .50 “
The Care of Mules .................... .50 ‘
About the Dog

Beautiful Joe, new, illus, $1.50 ........ small, 50 cts.
Distemper in Dogs, Dr. Schneider ...... Free
Rabies vs. Running Fits, Dr. Schneider . Free

Eulogy on the Dog, by Vest, post-card. ..$1 00per 100
The Dog—Its Care in Health and Disease .60
Feeding the Dog and the Cat, Dr.

Schneider ...................... 2.00 “ “
Humane Education Leaflets, Nos. 3 and 4 5.0 “ “
What the Chained Dog Says .......... .50 " “
The Story of Barry .................. .30 “ ‘
“Don” and His Boy Scout Friends,

J. P. Lyons ......................... .50 “ “
Boots’ Day, play ........ 3 cts. each, ﬁve for 10 cts.
About the Bird »

The Birds of God, 318 pp., illus .......... cloth, $0.45

Trial of the Birds, play, 3 cts. ea. ; 12 for

25 cts ............................ $2.00per100
Humane Education Leaflets, Nos. 1 and 2 .50 per 100
How the Birds Help the Farmer ...... .50 “ “
The Air-gun and the Birds ............ .50 “ “

About the Cat

The Cat—Its Care in Health and Disease $0. 60 per 100
Surplus Cats 5.0

........................

The Cat in Literature ................ .50 “ “
Do Not Leave Your Cat to Starve .50 “ “
Mollie Whitefoot’s Vacation ............ .50 “ “
“The Beggar Cat,” post-card, 6 cts. doz. .50 “ “
Tommy’s Tavern, 4 pp. .............. 1.00 “ “
I Knew She Was a Lady ............ .50 “ “
About Other Animals

Prince Rudolf’s Quest, Kenniston, 150

pp. ., special ....................... boards, 50 cts.
The Strike at Shane’ s, cloth, 30 cts.. .paper, 7 cts.
For Pity’ s Sake ....................... paper, 5 cts.
Michael Brother of Jerry, Jack London, cloth, 75 ctss.
Heaven’s Rage, Helen Trevelyan .....
Laugh, Clown, Laugh! Helen Trevelyan. .cl’oth, 5$1.080
The Great Cruelty, Dr. Rowley ........ Free

First Aid to Animals, Dr. Schneider, 8 pp.
$1. 00 per 100
.30 “ 3‘

What is the Jack London Club? ........

Foreword from‘ ‘Michael Brother of Jerry” .30 “ “
Gripped in the Teeth of Steel, 2 pp. 1.00 “ “
How to Kill Animals Humanely, 4 pp... 1. 00 “ “

Humane Education Leaflet, No. 6, Animals .50 “ “

About Other Animals
Humane Education Leaflet, No.7, Farm

Animals ........................ .50 per 100
Ways of Kindness .................... .50 “ “
A Wise Fish .......................... .50 “ “

Humane Education
The Relation of the Home to Character

Formation, Dr. Francis H. Rowley.. Free
The Humane Bulletin, for use in schools,

96 pp. ................. 12 cents each; ten for $1.00

Care and Kindness for Our Animal
Friends, 29 pp., paper covers, many
illus. ................ 15 cents each; seven for $1. 00
Kindness Picture Book, 32 DD , 15 cts. , seven for $1. 00
The Teacher’s Helper in Humane Edu-
cation, 32 pp. ....................... each, 10 cts.
An Early Start to Kindness, Lucia F.
Gilbert, 48 pp. For first and second
grades .......................... each, 10 cts.
Incidents About Animals as Told to
School Children by George T. Angell
2 cts. each; $1.00 per 100
Picture Lesson Cards, each 10 cts., set

of eight ........................... 35 cts.
“Be Kind to Animals” pennants ...... each, 25 cts.
The Humane Idea, Dr. Francis H.

Rowley ................ cloth, 35 cts. , paper, 15 cts.
Friends and Helpers (selections for

school use), Sarah J. Eddy ........ cloth, 96 cts.

Lessons on Kindness to Animals $3. 00 per 100
The B—K—T—A—Club, play, 3 cts. each; ten for 25¢.
Fred Changes His Mind, play, 5 cts. each , six for 25¢.
“And a Little Child Shall Lead Them,’

play ................ 3 cts. each; ten for 25 cts.
Friends of Fur and Feather, play”

3 cts. each; ten for 25 cts.

New Humane Exercises for 1937 $2. 00 per 100
Helps for Humane Sunday ............ 1.00 “ “
Humane Education the Vital Need, Dr.

Rowley, short radio address, 2 cts. each; .75 “
Humane Education, What to Teach and

How to Teach It ................... .50 “ “
Outlines of Study in Humane Education 1.50 ‘

Early Lessons in Kindness or Cruelty .. .50 “ “
A Talk with the Teacher ............... .50 “ “
Our Love for Animals, a short radio ad-

dress .................. 2 cts. each; 1. 00 “
The Coming Education ................ 30 “ “
A Festival of Tender Mercies .......... .50 “ “
Need of Humane Education Societies and

Methods of Forming Them .......... .50 “ “
A Great Prophecy, Dr. Rowley ........ Free

Band of Mercy

“Be Kind to Animals” Buttons, three
styles—Band of Mercy, Humane So-
ciety, or S. P. C. A ................... $1.00 per 100

Buttons—white star on blue ground with
gilt letters and border, one cent each 1.00

6‘ ‘4

Badges, gold finish, large, 10 cts., small 5 cts.
“Band of Mercy” Pennant ............ 35 cts.
Songs of Happy Life, with music, S.

J. Eddy ............................ 50 cts.
Songs of Happy Life (56 pages, words

only) ............................. $3. 00 per 100
Band of Mercy Membership Card ...... .50 ,
How to Form Bands of Mercy .......... .50 “

Does it Pay, Story of one Band of Mercy .30 “
No order by mail for less than 5 cts.

Please enclose remittance with orders for less than $1

AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY, 180 Longwood Ave., Boston, Mass.

 

 

Animal Shelters.

 

 

“First come, ﬁrst served,” is our rule for reservations in April when the ﬁlms
are in greatest demand

IN BEHALF OF ANIMALS

Film showing activities of Angell Animal Hospital of Massachusetts S."'P. C. A.,
Boston, scenes‘ at Society’s Rest Farm for Horses, Methuen, and of Society’s

THE BELL OF ATRI

One-reel Film, illustrating Longfellow’s poem of the same title

State whether 35 mm., or 16 mm. is required.
Terms on application to Secretary, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston

Two reels, 30 minutes

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

Page 71;

GOD,
PEACE ON EARTH,

KINDNESS, JUSTICE
AND MERCY TO
» EVERY LIVING
CREATURE.

 

Founded by Geo. T. Angeli

For rates of membership in both of our Societies
see back cover. Checks should be made payable to
Treasurer.

Incorp orated 1889

Oﬁicers of the American Humane Education Society
180 Longwoo-d Avenue, Boston, Mass.

‘DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLILARD, Treasurer
GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary
PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds
JOHN R. MACOMBE’R, Chairman of the Board, First
Boston Corporation
CHARLES G. BANCROF'I‘, Vice-President, United Shoe
Machinery Corporation
PHILIP STOCKTON, President, First National Bank of
Boston

Foreign Corresponding Representatives

George B. Duff ................... Australia
Luis Pareja Cornejo ............... Ecuador
Charles A. Williams .............. France
Leonard T. Hawksley ............. Italy
Mrs. Mary P. E. Nitobe .......... Japan
Mrs. Marie C. E. Houghton ....... Madeira
Dr. A. T. Ishkanian .............. Mexico
Joaquin Julia ..................... Spain
Mrs. Alice W. Manning ........... Turkey

Humane Press Bureau
Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke, Secretary
180 Longwood Ave., Boston
Field Workers of the Society
Mrs. Alice. L. Park, Palo Alto, California
Mrs. Jennle R. Nichols, Tacoma, Washington
James D. Burton, Harriman, Tennessee
Mrs. Katherine Weathersbee, Atlanta, Georgia
Rev. F. Rivers Barnwell, Fort Worth, Texas
Miss Blanche Finley, Richmond, Virgina
Rev. John W. Lemon, Ark, Virginia
MISS Lucia F. Gilbert, Boston, Massachusetts
Mrs. Jennie R. Toomim, Chicago, Illinois
Seymour Carroll, Columbia, South Carolina
Rev. R. E. Griffith, De Land, Florida
Field Representative
Wm. F. H. Wentzel, M. 8., Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
Field Lecturer in Massachusetts
Ella A. Maryott

SUMMARY OF ACTIVITIES OF FIELD
WORKERS FOR MARCH, 1937

Number of Bands of Mercy formed, 645
Number of addresses made, 345
Number of persons in audiences, 58,841

Safe Annuity Bonds

HE Annuity Bonds of our two Soci-

eties are absolutely safe and yield a
return according to one’s age. They make
their appeal ordinarily to people over 40
years of age. Send the coupon for a free
folder which gives full details.
The Massachusetts S. P. C. A. (or\
The American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Ave., Boston, Mass.

Without obligation to me, please send me
the folder about your Annuity Bonds.
Name
Age

........
.............
............

................
---------------

OUR DUMB ANIM'ALS

One Year’s Work

S an example of what has been accom-
plished in a distant state by one of the
ﬁeld workers of the American Humane
Education Society, we give a summary of
the year’s work by Mrs. Katherine
Weathersbee of Georgia. She reports:
“Traveled 12,309 miles, contacting school
authorities and visiting 209 schools, in
which 93,770 children were organized into
1,074 Bands of Mercy. Visited six summer
schools, where talks were given and litera-
ture distributed to 6,000 teachers. Humane
pageants were sponsored twice daily for a
week at the Northeastern Fair, where 20,000
pieces of humane literature were distributed.
Eight other exhibits were held at state
and district conferences and conventions.
Teachers were aided in putting on plays and
programs in the general observance of “Be
Kind to Animals Week.”

A Much Needed Fund

There are a number of most devoted and
faithful humane workers in the service of
our own and other similar societies who, in
the not distant future, will have to give up
their work because of the increasing years.
Among these are some whose sacriﬁces to
the cause they have loved and served has
made it impossible for them to provide for
their declining years.

Such a fund was established with the
Massachusetts S. P. C. A. some years ago
by a generous friend. The interest from
this fund has already been making life’s
burden of care and anxiety far less heavy
for two such workers. Gifts to this fund
are greatly needed, and what the income
from this fund may mean of relief and
comfort to many an unselﬁsh servant of
humanity Heaven only will know.

The No-Foreign-War
Crusade

On April 6, the twentieth anniversary of
America’s entrance into “the war to end
war,” the Emergency Peace Campaign
launched its great No-Foreign-War Cru-
sade. Designed to increase and render
articulate the deep desire of the American
people to stay out of war in either Europe
or Asia, the drive was launched by a na-
tion-wide broadcast in which Mrs. Franklin
D. Roosevelt, Admiral Richard E. Byrd,
honorary chairman of the Crusade, and Dr.
Harry Emerson Fosdick, chairman of the
EPC, participated.

For Stamp Collectors

Greek stamps and those of any other
Balkan State are sold for the beneﬁt of the
Greek magazine, The Animals’ Friend. If
you are a friend of animals and a collector
of postage stamps, send your order to the
Editor of the magazine, Mr. Charilaos
Lagoudakis, 23 Voucourestiou Street, Athens,
Greece. Stamp contributions are also grate-
fully accepted to help in the publication of
the Animals’ Friend. This is not to be con-
fused with the magazine of the same title
published for the National Council for
Animals’ Welfare, London.

M ay, 1937

“Avo de Campinas”

ALLIS M. HUTCHINGS

NE of the most interesting personages
O) of the ﬂourishing town of Campinas,
Brazil, is Senhora Ferreria, affectionately
called by the people, “Avo de Campinas,”
meaning “grandmother” of their city. She
is now in her seventy-seventh year, a widow
of wealth, noted for her great philanthropy.
During the twenty—ﬁve years of her widow—
hood she has administered the estates of
her husband, who was a prosperous coffee
planter.

It is her humane and practical sympathy
which have endeared her to the hearts of
the needy, both black and white. The
grassy terrace in front of her house has for
many years been a tribunal of mercy.
Those in need come and station themselves
on the terrace, patiently awaiting her in-
quiry. If any one is unwise enough to seek
her aid with any alcohol at all apparent, he
gets nothing, as she is very strong in her
temperance ideas.

Her humanity reaches beyond her fellow
men to animals and birds. In Campinas
burros are commonly used to draw carts or
as beasts of burden. Woe be to the man who
attempts to whip his animal within the
radius of her sympathetic eye. She has
been known to take the whip from such a
driver and turn it on himself, with no resist-
ance on his part because she is so much
beloved in the town.

A practical demonstration of befriending
her little brothers and sisters of the air is
the shelter in the busy part of the town,
which she has erected for them. Its sides
are open and they come in great ﬂocks each
evening for the night, and are away at
dawn to forage in the surrounding coffee
and citrus plantations. The air is clouded
by their numbers as they come and go but
no one ever tries to apprehend them. They
are proteges of their dear “Avo dc Cam—
pinas,” which is enough to insure them pro-
tection. It is needless to state that there is
no humane society necessary in Campinas,
because this able and sympathetic woman
carries on so valiantly and successfully.

American Fondouk, Fez

Report for February, 1937 —— 28 Days

Daily average large animals 46.5
Forage for same 95 64-94
Put to sleep 36 13.21
Transportation 6.50
Daily average dogs 2.8
Forage for same 1.84
Wages, grooms, watchmen and stable-boys 68.50
Superintendent’s salary 116.50
Veterinary’s salary 20.97
Motor ambulance upkeep
Motor bicycle upkeep 2032
Sundries (Includes Duval’s salary during
Delon’s absence) 73.71
Actual operating expenses $386.99

Entries: 18 horses, 10 mules, 60 donkeys.

Exits: 7 horses, 5 mules, 37 donkeys.

Outpatients treated: 73 horses, 73 mules, 69 don-
keys, 2 dogs, 1 cat, 1 cow.

Other fondouks visited: 70, all native fondouks.

SUPERINTENDENT’S NOTES: 175 cases investi-
gated, 2,619 animals s‘een, 517 animals treated, 52
animals transferred to Fondouk Americain, 4 pack-
saddles (infected) destroyed.

Summary of Work for Fifteen Days

Fondouks visited 150
Animals inspected 2,270
Animals treated 461
Animals sent to Hospital 30

Pack-saddles destroyed 5

 

A.

 




l

 

 

 

Easter Chicks and Easter

Bunnies

As the Easter season draws near, we
wish again to call attention to the cruel.
practice. of raising baby chicks and baby
rabbits by the countless thousands and
shipping them to stores for the Easter gift
trade. ' '

These little creatures are crowded into
small quarters; in unnatural surroundings,
often with little food or water; many times
left over Sunday without care or attention.
They are handled carelessly by prospective
customers, and thousands ‘die by being
handled by children who are too young to
realize that they may be painfully injured
or crushed by rough treatment or even by
too much petting. The children treat them
as they would toys—not understanding that
they are living creatures and capable of
suffering, as the child is capable of suffer-
ing. Very few of the parents know what
to feed the chiCks and bunnies or have
facilities for raising them properly, and
too often they are indifferent.

No child can practice cruelty toward any
living. creature . without doing himself the
greater harm.

A won’t you say a word in behalf of the
4 Easter Chick and the Easter Bunny?

s

Humane Education Press Bureau
180 Lon-gwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

 

FOR T
PREVENTION OF CRUELTY To ANIMATE

and THE AMERICAN l-IUM
SOCIETY ~ ANE EDUCATION

/ /.
/ ,
/

z / ,
/////
///

//

 

o a
.;

ﬂ/o’l/
% 3.29%! z,{/ //

 

” / ,/

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Pagemo
Our Dumb Animals

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston Ofﬁce: 180 Longwood Av-
enue, Boston. Mass., to which all communications
should be addressed.

Dr. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON, Editor
WILLIAM M. MORRILL, Assistant

 

AUGUST, 1937

 

FOR TERMS, see back cover.

AGENTS, to take orders for Our Dumb Anima’s are
wanted everywhere. Liberal commissions are offered.

EDITORS of all periodicals who receive this pub-
lication this month are invited to reprint any of the
articles with or without credit.

MANUSCRIPTS relating to animals, particularly
prose articles of about three hundred words, are solic-
ited. We do not wish to consider prose manuscripts
longer than 800 words nor verse in excess of thirty-
Six lines. The shorter the better. All manuscripts
should be typewritten and an addressed envelope with
full return postage enclosed with each offering.

The Hen and the Battery

ERHAPS many of our readers do not
know that multitudes of poultry breed-
ers have adopted in recent years what is
known as the battery system. According to
this system, in small wire cages just about
big enough for a hen to turn around com-
fortably, with the feet always on the wire
bottom, the hens are kept in this close
conﬁnement. The reason for this is that
more eggs can be obtained from hens so
managed than from hens that are given the
freedom that has ordinarily been granted
them of poultry—houses, yards to run in, and
perches for roosting. That more eggs can
be obtained in this way is probably un-
deniable, but this system has no regard for
any pleasure the hen might get out of life.
The poor creature is treated simply as an
egg-laying machine. Some have even gone
so far as to put a chicken in a bottle and
keep it there until it is grown up, an
abominable arrangement that has been con—
demned by all humane organizations and
some guilty of it convicted of cruelty.
This battery system has spread to Eng-
land and, strange to say, “Chanticleer,” the
N eras-Chronicle poultry advise-r, is reported
in The Animals’ Friend as having entirely
revised his opinion with regard to the bat—
tery system, originally having said of the
birds that by this system they are kept in
“excellent health, live utterly peaceful lives,
with nothing to do but eat—and lay their
eggs.” Now “Chanticleer” appears with a
very different statement. He no longer jus-
tiﬁes the battery system as free from
cruelty. It appears that his statement with
regard to the health of the birds has com-
pletely broken down for he refers to the
“increase of poultry disease and mortality
and of the appearance of a new disease,
signiﬁcantly known as fowl paralysis.”
These statements of his, showing an entire
change of opinion, appear in an article
called “Back to Nature Plan for Poultry.”
One wonders if hens were created for no
other purpose in the world than to lay eggs
and be eaten by human beings. Haven’t
they a life of their own to live and some
claims upon those who own them to decent
and humane treatment? Wouldn’t it be a
good idea if the next time we bought eggs

we asked the dealer if he knew how they
were produced?

 

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

An Interesting Story

Maternity Ward Admits Dog for “Blessed
Event”

HIS is the heading of an article which

appeared a little while ago in the St.
Louis Star-Times. It tells of a foxhound
who, about to have her puppies, appeared
one day at the clinic of the Washington
University in St. Louis. The story seemed
so unusual that we wrote to Dr. John V.
Lawrence, director of the clinic, for con-
ﬁrmation of the story, and we are quoting
as much of his letter as space permits.

WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY
SCHOOL or MEDICINE
SAINT LOUIS
June _4, 1937
Dear Dr. Rowley:

The incident concerning the foxhound
which came to the Washington University
clinics is quite true. The dog Showed re—
markable intelligence, more so perhaps than
a newspaper account indicated. She did not
come to the front door and stand in line
with the patients as was recorded in some
accounts. In fact she came much more di-
rectly to the point of her search.

I ﬁrst noticed the dog about 2 RM. one
afternoon at the rear entrance of the clinics
where nurses enter the clinics from their
quarters. She was so kindly disposed that
those entering spoke to her but no one
invited her to come into the building. Fi-
nally she slipped in when the door was opened
and came directly to the clinics. When a
nurse approached her She would lie down
in a most pleading fashion and would not
be shooed out. The supervisor of nurses was
called who in turn reported to me that a
dog was in the clinic and should not be
put out because she was going to have
puppies very soon. It was evident that the
dog was in distress. I noticed that she had
apparently been traveling a considerable
distance because her nails were worn short
and She seemed very tired. I offered her
water which she refused most politely.
When we attempted to coax her to the door
She would lie down and plead in a most
obeisant manner. We noted that she was
pregnant and was having mild contractions.
Of course it would have been most inhumane
to put an animal in such condition onto the
street. It was very easy to care for her
because of her remarkable obedience to
every command except to leave the build-
ing. When attempt was made to Shoo her
out She would ﬂatten herself on the ﬂoor
and wave her head from Side to side, appar-
ently refusing such an unjust command
with the greatest respect for our lack of
understanding. A remarkable reaction was
shown when we changed our tactics and
said that She could stay. She immediately
stood up and licked our hands. She was
put to bed in proper quarters and after a
few hours rest her labor pains stopped
somewhat, to the amusement of friends who
questioned my diagnosis. The premature
onset of her contractions had been precipi-
tated by exhaustion which is not unusual.
I believe She rested ﬁve days before delivery.
She became the pet of every one. very
visitor was received by her with the great-
est friendliness, and after the ﬁve puppies
came she shared them with every one with
complete conﬁdence. She was ﬁnally dis—

Aug. 1937

missed with her family to her owner, who
was later discovered by the clinic.

The incident of the foxhound coming
to the clinic is not the ﬁrst experience of
Similar kind. A few years ago a large collie
came to the clinic and hid himself under a
table in a patient’s examining room. When
it was attempted to put him out it was
noted that his leg had been bandaged and
Splinted some time before, apparently for a
broken leg. Where he was ﬁrst taken care
of we never knew. The dog plainly wanted
the splint removed and graciously watched
its removal by the clinic physician. This
dog was taken home by the nurse in charge
of the surgical clinic. Attempt to ﬁnd his
owner was made in the papers but with—
out success. He left unceremoniously after
a few days.

It is difﬁcult to explain what prompts
these incidences. Undoubtedly a clinic is a
strange environment for a dog and surely
his keen sense of smell must appreciate
strange odors.

Nearly all of our physicians are dog lov-
ers and owners. We have one most lovable
and frequent dog visitor which belongs to
the chief of the pediatric division. He is
a wire—haired terrier and is very old.
About two years ago he became totally
blind. Recently an operation for cataracts
was performed on his eyes but his sight
was not restored. This lovable creature is
most respected by all and stays close to his
master.

Among the many physicians we have
known there has rarely been one without
some pet dog or a horse greatly prized and
loved.

Very truly yours,
JOHN V. LAWRENCE, M.D., Director

The Way They Do it in
England

HE English can teach us a number of

things relative to humane work. For ex-
ample: An election to Parliament is to be
held in a certain part of the Island. Mr. X
is running for a seat in the House of
Commons. Suddenly Mr. A and Mr. B, and
perhaps Mrs. C, arrive at the residence of
Mr. X, coming it may be from as far away
as London. They ring the doorbell. Mr. X
invites them in. They introduce themselves
saying, Mr. X, we represent a large num-
ber of humane people in England and we
have come to learn if you are elected if you
will vote for those measures affecting the
welfare of animals that are already before
Parliament or may be brought before it.”
The proposed legislation is outlined and Mr.
X is asked if he will kindly say “Yes” or
“N 0.” Whatever the answer, it is publicly
announced in Mr. X’s district and all the
friends of animals are generally apt to vote,
irrespective of party, for the candidate who
says “Yes” or shows his real personal in—
terest in animals.

We think we shall try this in Massachu-
setts before the next year’s election to our
Legislature and give the public the result
of our interview. Before learning of what
we have said above, we had started the
same sort of inquiry with the Massachu-
setts representatives in Congress, 14 of
them, regarding another subject and in our
next issue shall give our readers their
replies.

 

 

 

 




L“ - t'..vmw&2-va.u;|s;~3i;>ésung—».-.~ _ s _ ‘

 

 

 

 

VALIANT DOGS

GREAT DOG STORIES OF OUR DAY

Selected by
FRANCES E. CLARKE

Here they are. from ’riny Pom-to gigantic Mastii‘i.
playing heroic. humorous. human parts in great
shor’r sl'ories of contemporary literature.
Hugh’r'f-Walpole. H. C. Bunner. Stephen Crane.
Mazo‘ de la Roche. Ana’role France. Galswor‘l‘hy.
Tarkington; Terhune. WoollcoH . . . the contributors
comprise a literary Roll of Fame.

"It's impossible to imagine any lover of dogs who
would not find Jrhis the best he has seen on Jrhe
subiect.”

$2.50. any books’rore or direc’r from

TH E MACMILLAN COMPANY
60 Fifth Avenue New York

 

 

 

 

Best Humane Films!

IN BEHALF OF
ANIMALS

Made by +he Harvard University Film Service. showing
the activities of +he Angell Memorial Animal Hospital
of the Massachusetts 5. P. C. A.. Boston. scenes at
Jrhe Socie’ry's Res’r Farm for Horses. Me’rhuen. and
glimpses of the Society's Animal Shel’rers. Two Reels.
30 minutes. ‘

THE BELL OF ATR

ILLUSTRATI NG LONGFELLOW'S POEM

Made for Jrhe American Humane Education Society
some years ago. but still in greamL demand

From a school in Massachusetts which recently
showed both films:

"The program was so excellent Jrha’r a second
program was requested."

State whether regular 35 mm.. or l6 mm.. is required.

Terms on application to Secretary. I80 Longwood
Avenue. Bos’ron

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

NEMA

(TETRACHLORETHYLNEE . T.)

WORM CAPSULES

effectively remove
Large Roundworm

and Hookworm
Dependable, safe, easy-to-
give worm treatment.
Keep your dog worm free
and thrifty. .

WRITE FOR
BOOKLET NO. 6521
on thepractical rempva”
of worms in Dogs 0 a
breeds and ages. ADDRESS DESK 1V -58—A
Animal Industry Dept”

  
  
  
 
 
   
     
     
 

  

 

 

The Massachusetts S. P. C. A. will
present on

HUMANE SUNDAY, April 11,
1937, a free lecture, illustrated by
slides and ﬁlms, by Thornton W.
Burgess, world-renowned writer of
animal stories, in Boston Public Li-

brary, Copley Square, at 8 P. M.

BE KIND TO ANIMALS WEEK
APRIL 12—17

 

 

 

 

 

 

The Humane Calendar
for 1937

is now ready. It shows a beautifully
colored picture (Osborne) of a mare
and colt. The leaves of the pad, con-
taining many humane hints and sug-
gestions, are detachable. If desired,
the new Calendars are available with
colored picture of cows (same as 1936)
and also with the picture, “Christ-

 

PARKE, DAVIS & CO., Detroit, Mich.

mas at ‘Home, Sweet Home.’ ” If
Drug Stores Sell 'Parke- Davis Products

 

 

 

 

 

picture is not speciﬁed, the new one

 

of horses will be sent.

 

uticura Ointmen
Hglps DLstrgssqu

km
it for PIMPLES
W of RASHES
'ECZEMA

 

20 cents for a single copy

LEWIS A. HARLOW
62 Long WhamC .

Boston. Massachusetts

Two for 35 cents
$1.80 per dozen, postpaid
Address Secretary, 180 Longwood Ave.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Decorative maps - B°St°n
Since 1832 I send IOI' PIICC LlSt
J. S. WATERMAN & SONS, INC. For a c m 1 t , 1, t f 11 h
o p e e prlce 1s 0 a umane
THIS SPACE Mnhtrtaketg literature and Band of Mercy supplies sold
CONTRIBUTED BOSTONF-JBROOKLINE—CAMBRIDGE by the Amerlcan Humane Educatlon So—

ciety, send your name and address to 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass, and it
will be forwarded promptly.

City and Out-of-Town Service

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   




>1

 

 

 

 

Mun—hw—‘i

—.....-.—*.~..

-\\‘..,

THE MASSACHUSETTS SOCIETY FOR THE
PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS
nd THE AMERICAN I-IUMANE EDUCATION
SOCIETY ~

1/
r2

 
    

ﬂy» ;
ﬁ/{g/Qgﬂﬁ’
:0- /
%/

’Z . w
02%,}?

1/
////,,'/f/r

X
.4 ’ I
_%ﬂ/f//”

   

 

 

 

 

 

 




Page26 OUR DUMB ANIMALS Feb. 1937
Will You HelpiD An Authority on Humane

     
  

N an editorial on the Plight of German Education
I , . . . -- - - - id: .
GLORY T0 ghmsuans’ puthhEd m Unity? ll 18 gal R. WILLIS A. SUTTON, superlntend-
GOD The persecutions of the Christians who ent of schools of Atlanta Georgia
i PEACE ON ’EARTH, have stood out against a lowering of

  

Christianity, indeed a deﬁlement of it, in and ”1.1930’31 .pres1dent 0f the Nationafl‘
both the Catholic Church and the Protestant Education .Assoc1ation, ”1 a letter to one 0
Churches, have been less tragic in their hls superv1sors wrltes as fOHOWS‘ .
completeness than the horrors against the “I actually believe that if the children of
Jews, but no one has ever learned one— the nation were taught to feel their respon-
tenth of the tortures of those Christians sibility toward the care 0f animals and
who had been threatened and imprisioned, toward the prevention 0f suffering, thls
hounded, and exiled. No one knows the sense of responsibility would extend to
Founded by Goo- T- Ange” Incorporated 1889 exact total number, but it is estimated that other individuals alnd EhaEhit woild extenfil
' ' - - there are about 14,000 Christian refugees ultimatey o peope o. o er na ions, an
.ofraravzi.marathons?32.2112521312th from Germany soottoooo to many ooooo of would go for toward ohmmoung war; I am
Treasurer' the earth. Of these we are credibly told requesting you to use GVGTY force in your
Ofﬁcers °f the America“ Humane Educati” S°°iety ‘2,000 are absOlutely penniless, and the re— power to bring this subject of Humane
180 Longwmd Avenue’ Bosmn’ Mass" maining 12,000 are rapidly becoming pen- Education to every child in the Atlanta

niless.’ ” schools.”

Headquarters of The Christian Commit—
tee for German Refu ees is at 287 Fourth
Avenue, New York. iny gift for this work Seymour CEII‘I‘OII

Trustees of Permanent Funds may be sent to Dr. Frank Ritchie, Sec—
JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First retary
Boston Corporation '

CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President, United Shoe

INDNESS, JUSTICE
AND MERCY TO
EVERY LIVING
CREATURE.

   

 

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

‘ ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

[I GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

i“ PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

.4. a _ m _ =3_, . mg..— was)..- Ana’s—W—

We are glad to learn that the represen—
tative of our American Humane Eduction
l ' ' Society for South Carolina, Mr. Carroll,
II M h C t . .

H PHIilIcPlSlidgxrglzimPaielsildent, First National Bank of MI‘S. WIISOH Groshans has been elected one of the directors of

mad—

 

 

 

: Booton , the American Committee for the enforce-
: Foreign Corresponding Representatives Mrs' Wllson GrOShanS’ W110 had serve-d ment of the constitution.
2 George B. Duff ................... Australia efﬂuent/137 as humane Ofﬁcer 1n Aurora; 11'
‘ Luis Pareja Cornejo ............... Ecuador linois since 1910 died of neumonia fol-
l Charles A. Williams .............. France - , - ﬂ ’ t C 1 DH it 1 ,A _ DECEASED FRIENDS
! Leonard T. Hawksley ............. Italy 10W1ng ”1 uenza’ a GP ey OSpl a 7 ur
l ﬁrs. ﬁary 1;. 3g. IIiitobe .......... Japan ora, December 30 last. She was an hOnOT- Who Made Bequests to the Massachusetts
;_l rs. arie . . oughton ....... Madeira . ' ,
l Dr. A. T. Ishkanian .............. Mexico ary member both Of the Amerlcan Humane S. P. C. A. and the American Humane
ll Joaquin Julia ..................... Spain Educatlon SOClety and Of the MassaChusettS Education Society in 1936
1 Mrs. Allce W. Manning ........... Turkey S. P. C. A. and was connected with several
l Humane Press Bureau other humane and patriotic organizations. liliOTEzflfiamis oftall earlier (illelceassslclies fgii‘eiaiis;
’ - - - - , r in e
3 Mrs. ElgbthLWashbanAolarke, Secretary She had been very act1ve 1n e-nrolllng Bands 3:71;? Aim fgfuﬁisruzgﬁfalgzs’ 1929, 1930, 1931,
l , ongwoo ve" BOSton of Mercy in the public schools of Illinois. 1932, 1933, 1934, 1935 and 1936.
l Field Workers of the Society -
Ill I Mrs. Alice L. Park, Palo Alto, California . Elizabeth 0- Adams, N GWbUTY
E} 1i Mrs. Rachel C. Hogue, San Diego, California. Amﬁrlcan FondOUk, FCZ Mrs. Emily Ainsley, Boston
. 3"“- Jegmg R; “egos; Tacoma; Washington Edith L. A. Baylies, New Bedford
l1 ames . ur on, arriman, Tennessee '
ll Mrs. Katherine Weathersbee, Atlanta, Georgia Report for November, 1936 ’— 30 Days Annle 13' Blake’ BOSton
:! Rev. F. Rivers Barnwell, Fort Worth, Texas Daily average large animals 50.5 Ellen M. Brown, Marblehead
Iﬁhss .igliindiii FI‘inley, Ifgcgmornd, Virgina goiaie fir same 85 $Zg-gg Mary E. Brown, Boston
I3 ev. o n . emon, r , irginia u o seep .. . -
l Miss Lucia F. Gilbert, Boston, Massachusetts Transportation 16-48 Inez H' Burnham’ Winthrop
l Mrs. Jennie R, Toomim, Chicago, Illinois Daily average dogs 10.3* Ella R. Burt, Taunton
1 l Seymour Carroll, Columbia, South Carolina Forage for same 7-22 Ralph P. Cheever, Dedham
l , Rev. R. E. Griffith, De Land, Florida $353989 toroiomf; wafohme“ and Stable boys g3; Clara K. Corliss, Boston
I uperin en en s sa ary . ,
; Field Representative Veterinary’s salary 20.95 Sarah M. Cottrell, Bennlngton, Vermont
. Wm. F. H. Wentzel, M. 8., Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania £41013“ aoobUIaooo upkeep 8-11 George P. Cushing, Hingham
. . . . otor. bicycle upkeep 1.47 Lillian E Eddy Boston
, Field Lecturer in Massachusetts Sundries 41.42 ‘ ’
. Ema A. Maryott Edward H. Eldredge, Boston
l = Actual operating eXponses $32174 Frances Straus England, Plttsﬁeld
Boilding Upkeep account 14-79 Sarah Barnes Fisk, Somerville
SUMMARY OF ACTIVITIES OF FIELD $336.53 Alice McClure Foretier, Quincy
WORKERS FOR DECEMBER’ 1936 Entries: 14 horses 16 mules 98 donkeys. Edward Glines’ Somerville
Number of Bands of Mercy formed 885 Exits: .4 horses, 7 mules, 39 donkeys. Mabel Hawkins, Daytona Beach, Florida
N I) f dd ’ k Outpatients treated: 67 horses, 74 mules, 76 don- Jacob Hittinger, Belmont
um er 0 a resses made eys, 1 cow, 12 dogs, 3 cats. - -
’ 283 Other fondouks visited: 70, all native fondouks. Frank M' HOtChkln’ EaSt Nathk

Number of ers ° '
p ons m aud'ences’ 41,850 SUPERINTENDENT’S NOTES: 271 cases investi- Bryan R' Houghton, Stoneham

gated, 5,458 animals seen, 878 animals treated, 55 Ella E' Jenness, St' JOhDSbury’ Vermont
F R ° animals transferred to Fondouk Americain, 3 pack- Margaret S. Journeay, Waltham
or etired Workers

saddles (infected) destroyed. Ella F. Kimball Boston
* The Police Dept. of the Ville Nouvelle promises ’

. . . - . Sarah Smith Look Lane, Tisbury
WEI are recgglng gifts to the American deﬁniteh the new pound by July, 1337].)EL0N, Supt. Elsie Fay Loeffler, Medﬁeld
umane ucation Society as a trust . Martha L. Loomis, Visalia, California
fund, the interest to be used for the bene— in 252113,: fgcsgrgefwiﬁ fromt tale Fondouk Bessie 0- Niles, Springﬁeld
I fit of field missionaries and others who have or e pas ree years.

F 1 . 1 th d .1 h Adele C. Parmenter, Los Angeles, California
i spent their lives in promoting humane edu- or arge anlma S e a1 y average as Louise Gaylord P ease, Chicopee

‘ . been, 43.01' for dogs 8.09' for all animals H ' t E P k‘ B t
t . ) r : arrle . er HIS, OS on
l Ea ion Alregdy several cages have CODE“? humanely put to sleep, the monthly average Generva E. Ricker, Stonington, Connecticut
- o1 .our attention and are being relieved in has been 28.77. L. Waldo Smith Brookline '
, t ls way. The average expense per month for each Alice .L. Stickney, Nashua, New Hampshire
l We Will welcome your contribution to this of the last three years has been: 1934, Adelaide Carman Talmadge, Hartford,
; fund. Please make checks payable to TreaS- $489.48; 1935, $416.96; 1936, $411.80; mak- hconnecuc‘lt ,. M T
l IfggrLAmerlcainAHumaneBEducation Society, ing an average Of $454'41' Alliei'tliii: Tvlgolmlaksﬁiplriillgg‘lgikﬁnee-nnessee
J ongwoo venue, oston, and specify The highest average of lar e animals has - ’
1 that the amount contributed is for the Hu— g Sarah W' nght’ Boston
l

. been for the year 1986, which was 52.90, the Ludlow Carroll Willett Baltimore
mane Education Trust Fund. smallest in 1934, which was 37.28. Maryland , ,

 




 

Nov. 1937

 

Founded by Geo. T. Angel]. Incorporated March, 1868

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds
JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First
Boston Corporation ‘
CHARLES G. BANCROET, Vice-President, United Shoe
Machinery Corporation
PHILIP STOCKTON, President, First National Bank of
Boston

Prosecuting Oﬂicers in Boston
Telephone (Complaints, Ambulances) Longwood 6100

L. WILLARD WALKER, Chief Ofﬁcer
HARRY L. ALLEN DAVID A. BOLTON
HARVEY R. FULLER HOWARD WILLAND

County Prosecuting Oﬂicers

HERMAN N. DEAN, Boston
Middlesex, Noﬁolk and Plymouth
FRED T. VICKERS, Lynn Eastern Essex
WILLIAM W. HASWELL, Methuen Western Essex
FRED F. HALL, Springﬁeld
Hampden, Hampshire and Franklin
ROBERT L. DYSON, Worcester Worcester
CHARLES E. BROWN, Attleboro Bristol
HAROLD G. ANDREWS, Hyannis
Barnstable, Dukes and Nantucket
T. KING HASWELL, Pittsﬁeld Berkshire

Rest Farm for Horses and Small Animal Shelter,
Methuen

W. W. HASWELL, Superintendent

Taunton Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.—-MRS.
HOWARD F. WOODWARD, Pres.; MRS. THOS. H. CAS-
WELL, Sec.

Northampton Branch of the Mass. 5. P. C. A.—
'MRS. EDITH WASHBURN CLARKE, Pres.; MRS. MAUDE
WEIR, Treas.

Women’s Auxiliary of the Mass. S. P. C. A., 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston—MRS. EDITH WASHBURN
CLARKE, Pres.; MRS. AGNES P. FISHER, Ch. Work
Com. First Tuesday.

Springﬁeld Branch Auxiliary—MRS. DONALD C.
KIBBE, Pres.; MRS. HERBERT F. PAYNE, Treas. Second
Thursday. ‘

Winchester Branch Auxiliary—MRS. RICHARD S.
TAYLOR, Pres.; MISS BESSIE SMALL, Treas. Second
Thursday.

Fitchburg Branch, Am. Humane Education Soc.—
Prim FRANCIS KIELTY, Pres.; BRADLEY W. LEONARD,

reas.

MONTHLY REPORT OF SOCIETY
AND BRANCHES

Miles traveled by humane ofﬁcers. .

17,078
Cases investigated ............... 515
Animals examined ............... 10,405
Animals placed in homes ......... 154
Lost animals restored to owners. . 72
Number of prosecutions .......... 4
Number of convictidns ............ 4
Horses taken from work ........... l7
Horses humanely put to sleep. . . . 83

Small animals humanely put to sleep 2,454
Stock-yards and Abattoirs

Animals inspected ................ 68,322
Cattle, swine and sheep humanely
put to sleep .................... 9

The Massachusetts Society for the Preven-
tion of Cruelty to Animals has been remem—
bered in the wills of Fred R. F. Ellis of
Brookline, and Mrs. H. M. Choate of Fitch—
burg. ‘

October 12, 1937.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

ANGELL MEMORIAL ANIMAL
HOSPITAL

and Dispensary for Animals
184 Longwood Avenue Telephone, Longwood 6100

Veterinarians
DAILEY, v.M.D., Chief of Staﬁ‘
. SCHNEIDER, v.M.D., Asst. Chief
SCHROEDER, D.V.M.
SCHNELLE, v.M.D.
MUNSON, v.M.D.
BLAKELY, v.M.D.

ARRY L. ALLEN, Superintendent

Pﬁﬁﬁﬁm
m F‘PWI‘WW

Springfield Branch

Telephone 4-7355
53-57 Bliss Street, Springﬁeld, Mass.

Veterinarians
A. R. EVANS, v.M.D. H. L. SMEAD, D.V.M.

 

 

 

HOSPITAL REPORT FOR SEPTEMBER
Including Springﬁeld Branch

Hospital Dispensary
Cases entered 966 Cases 2,625
Dogs 730 Dogs 2,136
Cats 221 Cats 441
Birds 8 Birds 30
Horses 5 Goats 5
Squirrel 1 Horses 4
Goat 1 Squirrels 3
Monkeys 2
Rabbits 2
Fox 1
Cow 1

Operations 829
Hospital cases since opening, Mar.

1, 1915 ....................... 153,839
Dispensary cases ................ 378,020
Total ............. 531,859

The Month in the Springﬁeld Branch
Cases entered in HOSpital .......... 154
Cases entered in Dispensary ....... 566
Operations ........................ 150

Beware the Dog!

A friend of the writer, who is also a lover
of animals, once remarked: “Everybody’s
pet is a nuisance to his neighbors.” Alas,
that this too Often is true, especially of
dogs that are allowed to roam the streets
unrestrained! Owners of dogs and cats owe
to those who live in their vicinity the same
consideration that they would wish to be
shown to them by other animal owners.
But the animals do have certain rights, es-
pecially upon their own premises. In a
recent Superior Court case in Maine the
plaintiff, who had been bitten on the leg
by his neighbor’s dog, sought to show that
the dog was vicious and asked to have the
animal present in court, but the judge de—
nied the request on the ground that “to
prove assault a person must be walking or
riding peaceably, not trespassing.” It seems
that the owner of the dog had warned the
plaintiff not to cross her garden where the
alleged assault took place.

Endowed stalls and'kennels are needed
in the Angel] Memorial Animal Hos-
pital. Payments of thirty-ﬁve dollars
for a kennel or seventy-ﬁve dollars for
a stall will insure a suitable marker
inscribed with donor’s name. Terms of
permanent endowment of free stalls and
kennels will be given upon application.

Page 169

S. P. C. A. Auxiliary Fair

N all-day Fair will be held by the

Women’s Auxiliary Of the Massachu-
setts S. P. C. A., at the Copley Plaza Hotel,
Boston, from 10 A.M. to 5 P.M., Wednes-
day, November 10, 1937.

Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke, president,
has appointed the several committees. The
general chairman of the bazaar will be Mrs.
Charles C. Hoyt.

Mrs. Herbert Prescott will be in charge of
the food table; Mrs Francis G. Carreiro, of
ﬂowers; Mrs. Richard S. Taylor, of Win-
chester table; Mrs. Agnes P. Fisher, of
novelty table; Mrs. Charles F. Rowley, of
candy; and Mrs. David Theall, of household
table. Mrs. Frank E. Towne will be in
charge of prophecies.

The luncheon will be served under the
direction of Mrs. Willard C. Bliss. The
afternoon bridge will be in charge Of Mrs.
Edward C. Brown. “Grabs” will be offered
by Miss Doris Greenwood. A speaker from
the Seeing-Eye School will be present, and
there will be other interesting features.

All contributions of merchandise or cash
should be sent to Mrs. Willard C. Bliss, 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston.

I Kenneth G. Haswell

A faithful and most efﬁcient employee of
the Massachusetts Society for the Preven-
tion of Cruelty to Animals in connection
with its work at Methuen was Kenneth G.
Haswell, who died after a brief illness the
latter part of August. He had charge of
our small animal ambulance and responded
to the thousands Of calls that came annu-
ally tO take away lost, stray or injured
small animals of Methuen, Lawrence, An-
dover and other neighboring towns. He had
the rare faculty of making friends with all
who knew him and winning many friends
for the Society he served. He loved ani-
mals. He knew how to deal with them even
when they were frightened or vicious. The
drivers of our small ambulances, like those
who serve us at our switchboards, play a
large part in securing the good will of the
public, or doing the very opposite.

A caterpillar lives but a few hours while
all the leaves are green, yet somehow knows
the leaves will wither and fall, for when he
makes his cocoon of a leaf he ﬁrst binds
it with a thread of silk to its stem before
he wraps himself in it for his metamor-
phosis.

Among ghost stories of animals is that
of the black dog of Moddey Dhoo which used
to haunt an ancient Manx castle. Sir Wal-
ter Scott describes it as “The Spectre
Hound of Man.”

All wild animals lie down to rest with
their backs to the wind, knowing their scent
will not carry behind them to unseen en-
emies, and with noses pointed for scents
ahead Of them.

An envious, erudite ermine

Said, “There’s one thing I cannot determine:

When a man wears my coat,

He’s a person of note,

While I am but a species of vermin.”
—Manchester Guardian

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

May, 1937

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Page ’75

M. S. P. C. A. Opens Clinical Laboratory at Hospital

HE creation of a new clinical labora—

tory for the purpose of diagnosing

disease, at the Angell Memorial Ani-
mal Hospital, operated by the Massachu—
setts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals, at 180 Longwood Avenue, Bos—
ton, marks a distinct advance in veter—
inarian practice in America, if not in the
entire world, according to experts familiar
with the work.

The laboratory, although not previously
announced, has been operating for the
past two months and has demonstrated its
value in the diagnosis of diseases among
animals, which is its sole purpose. It
occupies a large room adjacent to the
regular clinical rooms and is equipped
with apparatus and instruments similar to
those found in hospital laboratories deal-
ing with the diseases of human beings.

While laboratory work has always been
emphasized at the Angell Memorial, the
new laboratory is said to be unique among
animal hospitals in the completeness of its
equipment, and because it is. under the
direction of a trained technician, just as
are hospitals devoted to the treatment of
human ills. As a matter of fact, the tech-
nician, Miss Norma N. Burton, a Medford
young woman, came to the Angell Memor-
ial from the Martha’s Vineyard Hospital,
where she did similar work. She is a
graduate of Acadia College at Wolfville,
N. S., and received her technical training
at the Boston City Hospital.

Describing the functions of the new de-
partment, Dr. Hugh F. Dailey, chief vet-
erinarian, said: “Its purpose is to make
the diagnosis of disease as certain as pos-
sible, utilizing all the aids that modern
equipment affords in the analysis of blood
and other ﬂuids and tissues, in the culture
and study of bacteria and in microscopic
analysis.

“The veterinarian is just as often puz-
zled by obscure diseases in animals as the
physician is in treating human beings,
and that is where the diagnostic laboratory
comes in. The blood count of white and
red corpuscles, for example, may tell quite
a different story from what appears in
ordinary diagnosis, The average case may
be as plain as the nose on your face, and
usually is, but occasionally the situation is
baffling.

“A few weeks ago we had a very sick
female dog here whose kidney excretions
indicated nephritis, which in human beings
used to be called Bright’s disease. The
actual analysis, however, did not account
for the condition the dog was in, so some-
thing else was suspected and a blood
count was made. This showed white cor-
puscles ﬁve times in excess of normal,
clearly indicating that the animal was
ﬁghting a severe infection somewhere else
in the body. Further examination dis-
closed the organ affected. The organ was
removed and the dog made a complete re-
covery. Needless, perhaps, to say, the lab-
oratory saved that dog’s life.

“Laboratory examination is important
as a means of verifying ordinary diagnosis,
putting the seal of approval on it, making
assurance doubly sure, by indicating
changes in the blood and other fluids dur-

 

THE NEW CLINICAL LABORATORY FOR THE DIAGNOSIS OF ANIMAL

DISEASES ESTABLISHED AT THE ANGELL MEMORIAL ANIMAL HOSPI—

TAL, BOSTON, BELIEVED TO BE THE FIRST OF ITS KIND IN 'IHE

WORLD, WITH DR. HUGH F. DAILEY, CHIEF VETERINARIAN, AND MISS
NORMA N. BURTON, TECHNICIAN

 

ing the progress of disease, and it is abso-
lutely necessary in the diagnosis of diseases
of the blood itself and of the blood-forming
organs.

“In many cases requiring surgical treat-
ment, as where a dog or a cat is suffering
from intestinal obstruction, the result of
swallowing some foreign substance, labora-
tory tests of the blood will tell whether
an operation can safely be performed, or
whether medical treatment is necessary
ﬁrst to get the animal in operable condi-
tion.

“These new laboratory facilities, in
short, make possible to the animal hospi—
tal much the same achievements in
diagnosis that modern appliances and
methods have conferred upon hospitals
generally. The laboratory is a step for-
ward upon the long road toward the high-
est possible achievement in animal welfare
work, and we are naturally proud of the
fact that again the Angell Memorial has
been privileged to pioneer the way.”

The male Siameseiﬁghting ﬁsh blows a
nest of bubbles to which he carries the eggs
as they are laid by the female.

“Lassie”
JUDY VAN DER VEER

“Lassie” is an old dog now,
She barks and twitches in her sleep,
And dreams of helping on. the farm,
And bringing home the straying sheep.

She used to follow where I rode,
No trail too long, no hill too high;

She chased the rabbits through the grass,
And made the quail arise and fly.

An old dog’s place is by the ﬁre,

And Lassie dreams away the days;
But sometimes softly she will go

To where her long dead puppy plays;

To where the days are sweet and warm,
And puppies tumble in the sun,

And through the tall bright golden grass
Little phantom rabbits run . . .

Thirty hours after the beginning of in-
cubation of a hen’s egg the embryonic chick
heart starts to beat.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

ﬂ/

, /
. V; /9. J/ﬂ/ﬂ
. . .1? ., .. .

//x ’

a ﬂy av. /

z/ 4, /u/w. .ﬂ/ﬂx/MI/ﬂ/ .

{av/W. ( «Ix/ﬂ ﬂow/Wr/wy/ .//.//U/
éﬁﬂ/ gay/u, xﬂ/M/ﬂ/ﬂxx

ﬂ 4.4!” 9/, / ./,

I

f

255/
/ /

/

6/42

/
x

/-

//’

.//%/w%

11/.

//7.

PRICE 10 CENTS

W,

mg so

1dren and

ble

7 H . ..
. . a!
/%/VL/Ww/I//sz " . /

g.

I” m, 2H
Gay/4»

/

I/ I .. .
W/éaﬂo,
ﬁzz %,

to chi
1rrespons1

C
ID
m
0
.r.
f
S
u
t
C
C
t
O
r

P

 

PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO‘ ANIMALS
SOCIETY ~

THE MASSACHUSETTS SOCIETY FOR THE
and THE AMERICAN I-IUMANE EDUCATION

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

Aug. 1937

 

Founded by Geo. T. Angell. Incorporated March, 1868

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustee-s of Permanent Funds
JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First
Boston Corporation
CHARLES G. BANCROF'I‘, Vice-President, United Shoe
Machinery Corporation
PHILIP STOCKTON, President, First National Bank of
Boston

Prosecuting Ofﬁcers in Boston
Telephone (Complaints,Ambulances) Longwood‘ 6100
L. WILLARD WALKER, Chief Officer
HARRY L. ALLEN DAVID A. BOLTON
HARVEY R. FULLER HOWARD WILLAND

County Prosecuting Ofﬁcers

HERMAN N. DEAN, Boston

Middlesex, Norfolk and Plymouth
FRED T. VICKERS, Lynn Eastern Essex
WILLIAM W. HASWELL, Methuen Western Essex
FRED F. HALL, Springfield .

Hampden, Hampshire and Franklin

ROBERT L. DYSON, Worcester Worcester
CHARLES E. BROWN, Attleboro Bristol
HAROLD G. ANDREWS, Hyannis

Barnstable, Dukes and Nantucket
T. KING HASWELL, Pittsfield Berkshire

Rest Farm for Horses and Small Animal Shelter,
ethuen

W. W. HASWELL, Superintendent

Taunton Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.—MRS.
HOWARD F. WOODWARD, Pres.; MRS. THOS. H. CAS-
WELL, Sec.

Women’s Auxiliary of the Mass. S. P. C. A., 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston—MRS. EDITH WASHBURN
CLARKE, Pres.; MRS. HARRY COLE, Treas.; MRs.
AGNES P. FISHER, Ch. Work Com. First Tuesday.

Springﬁeld Branch Auxiliary—MRS. DONALD C.
KIBBE, Pres.; MRS. HERBERT F. PAYNE, Treas. Second
Thursday. .

Winchester Branch Auxiliary—MRS. RICHARD S.
TAYLOR, Pres.; MISS BESSIE SMALL, Treas. Second
Thursday.

Fitchburg Branch, Am. Humane Education Soc.—
MR. FRANCIS KIELTY, Pres.; BRADLEY W. LEONARD,
Treas.

MONTHLY REPORT OF SOCIETY
AND BRANCHES

Miles traveled by humane ofﬁcers. . 17,198
Cases investigated ............... 723
Animals examined ............... 4,165
Animals placed in homes ......... 162
Lost animals restored to owners. . . 71
Number of prosecutions .......... 9
Number of convictions ............ 9
Horses taken from work ........... l7
Horses humanely put to sleep. . . . 76

Small animals humanely put to sleep 2,401
Stock-yards and Abattoirs

Animals inspected ................ 54,585
Cattle, swine and sheep humanely
put to sleep .................... 14

The Massachusetts Society for the Pre-
vention of Cruelty to Animals has been re-
membered in the wills of Alice Mary Dowl-
ing of Brighton, and Gertrude Peters
Brown of Brookline.

July 13, 1937.

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

ANGELL MEMORIAL ANIMAL
HOSPITAL
and Dispensary for Animals
184 Longwood Avenue Telephone, Longwood 6100

Veterinarians

. DAILEY, v.M.D., Chief of Staﬁ

. SCHNEIDER, v.M.D., Asst. Chief

. SCHROEDER, D.V.M.

. SCHNELLE, v.M.D.

. MUNSON, v.M.D.

. BLAKELY, v.M.D.

HARRY L. ALLEN, Superintendent

PﬁPﬁFm
bowsmw

Springfield Branch

Telephone 4-7355
53-57 Bliss Street, Springﬁeld, Mass.

Veterinarians
A. R. EVANS, v.M.D.
H. L. SMEAD, D.V.M.

 

 

 

HOSPITAL REPORT FOR JUNE
Including Springﬁeld Branch

Hospital Dispensary
Cases entered 824 Cases 2,530
Dogs 655 Dogs 2,133
Cats 152 Cats 339
Birds 10 Birds 38
Horses 2 Rabbits 5
Coats 2 Horses 4
Monkey 1 Coats 4
Rabbit 1 Turtles 2
Squirrel 1 Sheep 2
Monkeys 2
Land Crab 1

Operations 806
Hospital cases since opening, Mar.

1, 1915 ....................... 150,954
Dispensary cases ................ 369,971
Total ............. 520,925

The Month in the Springﬁeld Branch
Cases entered in Hospital ........... 124
Cases entered in Dispensary ........ 478
Operations ........................ 172

Our Reply to a State Official

ERMAN C. LYTHGOE is the Massa-

chusetts Director of the Division of
Food and Drugs. More than once we have
called his attention to the lack of proper
inspection in the slaughter-houses of this
state which depend for inspection not upon
the Federal Government but only upon the
state authorities.

In our issue of May we published a pic—
ture showing a number of cattle found in
Southbridge by our representative, which
had been bought in "Woodstock, Conn., and
unable to stand, had been loaded on trucks
with blocks and falls, then transported to
Auburn, then to Worcester and back to
Southbridge. Our ofﬁcer, Mr. Dyson, at
once had them condemned and destroyed.

After publishing that story we received a
letter from Mr. Lythgoe, a copy of which he
had published in the Worcester Evening
Gazette, in which he stated that what we
said with regard to the discovery of these
poor, sick and starved creatures should be
rewritten so as to read that “if it were not
for the vigilance of the local slaughter
inspector your representative never would
have known of the case of cruelty and the
animals would have been killed and conﬁs-
cated by the local inspector.” He further
said, “In view of the fact that your inspec-
tors are not calling to the attention Of this
Department or the courts any violation of

Page 121

the slaughtering laws, we assume that the
slaughtering laws are being complied with.”

The irony of the situation is that within
a. few hours of Mr. Lythgoe’s public praise
of his inspector and his request that we
rewrite our article, we published in the
W'orcester Gazette the following informa-
tion, which was brought out in a trial of
another case which came to the attention
of our ofﬁcer, Mr. Dyson, and where it was
proved that the same “vigilant” inspector
Mr. Lythgoe had praised had illegally
stamped as ﬁt for food the carcass of a
cow which had failed to give birth to a
calf, and which he had not seen, slaughtered.
Evidence of this inspector’s act was brought
to Mr. Lythgoe’s attention about the time
the public was reading his letter in your
paper, and he was obliged to put in court
the inspector, the owner of the cow, and the
man who butchered it, skinned the carcass
and removed the dead calf. Both the inspec—
tor and the owner were convicted, and,
furthermore, Mr. Lythgoe, who was present
at the trial, insisted that this “vigilant”
inspector’s license be revoked, as the result
of his stamping meat without being present
at the slaughter.

I am still contending, as I have for years,
that judging of what is known as local
inspection in this state, it is far from being
what it ought to be.

I think in all fairness to me and the
society which I represent you will be glad
to publish my letter, having published Mr.
Lythgoe’s.

FRANCIS H. ROWLEY,
President
Mass. Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals
Boston, May 28

New Branch in Northampton

On June 8 a meeting was held in Carnegie
Hall, Northampton, to organize the North-
ampton Branch of the Massachusetts S. P.
C. A.

This very delightful group of women, so
interested in the protection of animals and
in humane education, elected Mrs. Edith
Washburn Clarke, president of the Boston
Auxiliary and chairman of Humane Educa-
tion in the Massachusetts Parent Teacher
Association, for their president. Other ofﬁ-
cers chosen were vice-president, Miss Eunice
Barrows; secretary, Miss Virginia Caval—
ieri; treasurer, Mrs. Maud Weir; chairman
Of ways and means, Mrs. Frank E. Dow;
directors, Mrs. Charles E. Childs, Miss Elsie
P. Leonard, Mrs. Calvin Coolidge, Mrs. F.
B. Adams, and Dr. Will Collins.

There are 5‘7 members to date. It was
voted to locate a shelter at the premises of
Paul C. Ziegengeist at 248 Hatﬁeld Street,
and to purchase two kennels, one for dogs
and one for cats, from the S. P. C. A. in
Boston.

Retired Workers’ Fund

E are receiving gifts to the American

Humane Education Society as a trust
fund, the interest to be used for the bene-
ﬁt Of ﬁeld missionaries and others who have
spent their lives in promoting humane edu-
cation. Already several cases have come
to our attention and are being relieved in
this way. We Will welcome your contribu-
tion to this fund.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

New England
Trust Company

. Boston

Administers Bequests
to Charity
Education—Science

Main Office

135 Devonshire Street
Corner of Milk St.

Back Bay Branch
99. Newbury Street

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  
 
 
 
 
    
 
 
 

 

(TETRACHLORETHYLENE C. T.)

WORM CAPSULES

eﬁ’ectiver remove
Large Roundworms
and Hookworms
Dependable. safe, easy.to~
give worm treatment.
Keep your dog worm free
and thrifty.

WRITE FOR
BO 0 K L E T N 0. 6521
on the practical remova

of worms in Dogs of all F R E E

nd ages ADDRESS DESK N -58-K
breeds a Animal Industry Dept,

PARKE, DAVIS 81 00., Detroit, Mich.

Drug Stores Sell Parke- Davis Products

 

 

 

 

THIS SPACE
CONTRIBUTED

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

"GI-w

.314“ 15.... Don’ t cover coarsened, reddened skin
. ° with cosmetics. G1ve 1t the gentle, effec-

      
  

 
   

-, 1,3"; 9 tive medication it needs with wonderful
EUTI CUBA5°AP‘"°
OI NTM ENT

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Since 1832

J. S. WATERMAN & SONS, Inc.
Entertainer:

BOSTON—BROOKLINE—CAMBRIDGE
City and Out-of—Town Service

 

 

 

 

Humane literature and Band of Mercy Supplies

For Sale at 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass, at these prices, postpaid.

Titles in bold-face type are of books or booklets

Our Dumb Animals, 1936, bound volume $1.00
Colored Posters, 17 x 28 inches, with

attractive pictures and verses, six in

the set ............................. 1. 00
Be Kind to Animals Blotters, 6% x 3% $0. 50 per 100

About the Horse

Black Beauty (English), cloth,.....$1.00 and 50 cts.
What Constitutes Cruelty, Francis H.

Rowley ........................ $0. 30 per 100
Humane Horse book, 32 pp., 5 cts. each or 5. 00
The Horse—T1eatment of Sores, etc... .60 “ “
Humane Education Leaflet, No. 5 .50 “ “
The Horse’s Prayer .................. .30 “ “
The Bell of Atri, poem by Longfellow .. 50 “ “
The Care of Mules .................... .50 “ “

About the Dog

Beautiful Joe, new, i11us., $1.50 ........ small, 50 cts.
Distemper in Dogs, Dr. Schneider ...... Free
Rabies vs. Running Fits, Dr. Schneider . Free

Eulogy on the Dog, by Vest, post- card $.1. 00per 100
The Dog—Its Care in Health and Disease .60
Feeding the Dog and the Cat, Dr.

Schneider ...................... 2.00 “ “
Humane Education Leaflets, Nos. 3 and 4 .50 “ “
Whatthe Chained Dog Says .......... .50 “ “
The Story of Barry .................. .30 “ “
“Don” and His Boy Scout Friends,

J. P. Lyons ........................ .50 “ “
Road Accidents to Dogs, 4 pp. ...... Free
Boots’ Day, play, for two boys and three

girls .................... 3 cts. each, ﬁve for 10 cts.

About the Bird
The Birds of God, 318 pp., illus .......... cloth, $0.45
Trial of the Birds, play, 3 cts. ea.; 12 for

25 cts. .............................. $2.00 per 100
Humane Education Leaflets, Nos. 1 and 2 .50 per 100
How the Birds Help the Farmer ...... .50 “ “
The Air-gun and the Birds ............ .50 “ “

About the Cat
The Cat—Its Care in Health and Disease $0.60 per 100
.5 ‘6

Surplus Cats ........................ 0
The Cat in Literature ................ .50 “ “
Do Not Leave Your Cat to Starve .. .50 “ “
Mollie Whitefoot’s Vacation ............ .50 “ “
“The Beggar Cat,” post-card, 6 cts. doz. .50 “ “
Tommy’s Tavern, 4 pp. .............. 1.00 “ “
I Knew She was a Lady ............... .50 “ “
About Other Animals
Prince Rudolf’s Quest, Kenniston, 150
pp. ., special ........................ boards, 50 cts.
The Strike at Shane’s, cloth, 30 cts ..... paper, 7 cts.
For Pity’s Sake ...................... paper, 5 cts.

Michael Brother of Jerry, Jack London, cloth, 75 cts.
Laugh, Clown, Laugh! Helen Trevelyan . .cloth, $1.00
The Great Cruelty Again, Dr. Rowley .. Free
First Aid to Animals, Dr. Schneider, 8 pp.

$1.00 per 100
Gripped in the Teeth of Steel, 2 pp. .00 “ “
How to Kill Animals Humanely, 4 pp. 1. 00 “ “
Humane Education Leaflet, No. 6, Animals .50 “ “

Ways of Kindness ..................... 50per 100
Humane Education Leaflet, No. 7, Farm

Animals ........................... .50 “ “
A Wise Fish .......................... .50 “ “

The Jack London Club

What is the Jack London Club? ........ 3.0 per 100
Foreword from “Michael Brother of Jerry” 3.0 “
Filmpsp Fakes and Facts, Helen Trevelyan,

6‘ ‘I

Do Wild Animals Prefer Captivity? Helen

Trevelyan, 4 pp .................... .50 “ “
Trained Animals —— Cruelty Disguised,
Helen Trevelyan, 4 pp. ............. .50 “ “

Humane Education
The Relation of the Home to Character

Formation, Dr. Francis H. Rowley. .. Free
The Humane Bulletin, for use in schools,
96p ................. 12 cents each; ten for $1.00

Carep and Kindness for Our Animal

Friends, 29 pp., paper covers, many

illus. .............. 15 cents each; seven for $1.00
Kindness Picture Book, 32 pp, 15 cts. , seven for $1.00
The Teacher’s Helper in Humane Edu-

cation, 32p p.p ....................... each, 10 cts.
An Early Start to Kindness, Lucia F.

Gilbert, 48 pp. For ﬁrst and second

grades .......................... each, 10 cts.

Incidents About Animals as Told to
School Children by George T. Angell

2cts. each; $1.00 per 100
Picture Lesson Cards, each 10 cts., set

of eight ........................... 35 cts.
“Be Kind to Animals” pennants ...... each, 25 cts.
The Humane Idea, Dr. Francis H.

Rowley .............. cloth, 35 cts.; paper, 15 cts.
Friends and Helpers (selections for

school use) Sarah J. Eddy .......... cloth $1.00

Lessons on Kindness to Animals $3.00 per 100
The B—K—T—A—Club, play, 3 cts. each; ten for 25c.
Fred Changes His Mind, play, 5 cts. each; six for 25c.
“And a Little Child Shall Lead Them,”

play ................ 3 cts. each; ten for 25 cts.
Friends of Fur and Feather, play...

3 cts. each; ten for 25 cts.

Humane Exercises ................... .$1. 50 per 100
Humane Sunday, 1937 ............. 1. 00
Humane Education the Vital Need, Dr.

Rowley, short radio address, 2 cts. each, .75 “ “
Humane Education, What to Teach and

How to Teach It ................... .50 “ “
Outlines of Study in Humane Education 1. 50 “ “

Early Lessons in Kindness or Cruelty .. .50 “ “
A Talk with the Teacher ............... .50 “ “
Our Love for Animals, a short radio ad-

dress .................. 2 cts. each; 1. 00 “ “
The Coming Education ................ .30 “ "‘
A Festival of Tender Mercies .......... .50 “ “
Need of Humane Education Societies and

Methods of Forming Them .......... .50 “ “
Bookmark, with “A Humane Prayer” 1.00 “ “
A Great Prophecy, Dr. Rowley ........ Free

Band of Mercy

“Be Kind to Animals” Buttons, three

styles—Band of Mercy, Humane So-

ciety, or S. P. C. A ................... $1.00 per 100

Buttons—white star on blue ground with
gilt letters and border, one cent each 1.00 “ “

Badges, gold finish, large, 10 cts. small 5 cts.
“Band of Mercy” Pennant ............ 35 cts.
Songs of Happy Life, with music, S.

J. Eddy ............................ 50 cts.
Songs of Happy Life (56 pages, words

only) ............................. $3. 00 per 100
Band of Mercy Membership Card ...... .50 “
How to Form Bands of Mercy .......... .50 “ “

Does it Pay, Story of one Band of Mercy .30 “ “
No order by mail for less than 5 cts.

Please enclose remittance with orders for less than $1

AMERICAN HUMAN E EDUCATION SOCIETY, 180 Longwood Ave., Boston, Mass.

 

 

Animal Hospital, Boston,
Farm for Horses,
Two reels, 30 minutes.

 

 

HUMANE FILMS FOR SALE AND FOR RENT

“IN BEHALF OF ANIMALS”

Showing activities of Massachusetts S. P. C. A.,-—Angell
scenes
Methuen, and its Animal Shelters.

“THE BELL OF ATRI”

One-reel, illustrating Longfellow’s poem of the same title
State Whether regular 35 mm., or 16 mm., is required
Terms on application to Secretary, 180.. Longwood Ave., Boston

at Society’s Rest

 

 

 

 

 

3i.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

G Lo R v "r o
GOD, t“
PEACE ON EARTH, :0 _

INDNESS, JUSTICE o

 

Founded by Geo. T. Angell Incorporated 1889

For rates of membership in both of our Societies
see back cover. Checks should be made payable to
Treasurer.

Ofﬁcers of the American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds

JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First
Boston Corporation

CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President, United Shoe
Machinery Corporation

PHILIP STOCKTON, President, First National Bank of
Boston

Foreign Corresponding Representatives

George B. Duff ................... Australia
Luis Pareja Cornejo ............... Ecuador
Charles A. Williams ............... France
Leonard T. Hawksley .............. Italy
Mrs. Mary P. E. Nitobe ........... Japan
Mrs. Marie C. E. Houghton ........ Madeira
Dr. A. T. Ishkanian ............... Mexico
Joaquin Julia ..................... Spain
Mrs. Alice W. Manning ............ Turkey

Humane Press Bureau
Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke, Secretary

180 Longwood Ave., Boston
Field Workers of the Society

Mrs. Alice L. Park, Palo Alto, California
Mrs. Jennie R. Nichols, Tacoma, Washington
James D. Burton, Harriman, Tennessee
Mrs. Katherine Weathersbee, Atlanta, Georgia
Miss Blanche Finley, Richmond, Virginia
Rev. F. Rivers Barnwell, Fort Worth, Texas
Rev. John W. Lemon, Ark, Virginia
Miss Lucia F. Gilbert, Boston, Massachusetts
Mrs. Jennie R. Toomim, Chicago, Illinois
Seymour Carroll, Columbia, South Carolina
Rev. R. E. Grifﬁth, De Land, Florida

Field Representative

Wm. F. H. Wentzel, M. 8., Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

Field Lecturer in Massachusetts
Ella A. Maryott

SUMMARY OF ACTIVITIES OF FIELD
WORKERS FOR SEPTEMBER, 1937

Number of Bands of Mercy formed, 294
Number of addresses made, 202

Number of persons in audiences, 33,500

Safe Annuity Bonds

HE Annuity Bonds of our two Soci-

eties are absolutely safe and yield a
return according to one’s age. They make
their appeal ordinarily to people over 40
years of age. Send the coupon for a free
folder which gives full details.

The Massachusetts S. P. C. A. (or)
The American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Ave., Boston, Mass.

Without obligation to me, please send me
the folder about your Annuity Bonds.
Name
Age ...................................
Address ................................

...............................

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Passing of the Istanbul Cats

HE cats of Istanbul are a thing of the

past. No more do they wander about the
streets or lie on the sidewalks while human
beings walk in the streets. In 35 years’ resi-
dence here I have never happened to see a
cat molested or struck in the streets. Many
people fed them regularly, sometimes as
many as 20 or 30 at once, but there were
too many and of course among them were
many diseased, starved and wounded ones.

In August a new assistant vali was sent
to Istanbul and he began at once to dispose
of the cats. They were collected by the
municipality and sent to the Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals to be put
to sleep. The municipality offered a reward
of ﬁve piasters to every person who brought
a cat to the police stations. This gave rise
to much cruelty, because the gypsies and
street boys caught the cats, but after a few
days this was stopped and now the cats are
caught by regular men from the municipal-
ity, and only a few are brought each day.
The Society was not notiﬁed that the cats
were to be collected and sent to them to
dispose of. The ﬁrst day 779 cats arrived.
At ﬁrst many home cats were stolen, but
the Society protested, and now all house
cats must wear ribbons, or strings around
their necks, or they will be caught. Some
people, in order to protect them, take their
pet cats out to walk now, with a harness
and leash, like dogs. The Society gave elev-
en boxes, made with small compartments,
and crated sides and top, so that the cats
may have air, to the different police stations
where the cats were assembled.

In all 6,500 cats were put to sleep by
the Society for the municipality, free of
charge. There will be a regular collection
of cats in the future as there is for dogs.

Hundreds of little kittens found in the
streets are brought to the Society now, by
private persons, to be killed humanely, and
this helps very much in keeping down the
number of cats. The cruel custom of throw-
ing kittens and puppies into the street to
die still persists, because people in the East
think some misfortune will befall them if
they kill an animal. The kittens are chloro—
formed.

We hope that enough cats have been left
to keep down the rats, and as nearly every
family has a cat there is no danger of a
pest of rats.

We are very glad that there was a So-
ciety for the Prevention of Cruelty to Ani-
mals already established here, and are
grateful to the authorities for having ac-
cepted so willingly, all the suggestions
made by the Society in regard to this work.

MRS. ALICE W. MANNING
Istanbul, September 10, 1937

\. 0
o

The Galapagos islands get their name
from the Spanish word, galapago, meaning
tortoise. Upon these islands live, and lay,
the giant turtle which is supposed to live
ﬁve hundred years.

Do not kill the harmless “dirt—dauber”
which builds its clay nest on your porch or
barn wall. He will return your hospitality
by hunting out and destroying the deadly

black widow spider upon which he feeds
his young.

Nov. 1937

American Fondouk, Fez

Report for August, 1937—31 Days

Daily average large animals 49.4
Forage for same $ 49.17
Put to sleep 52 11.66
Transportation 8.79
Daily average dogs 9
Forage for same 5.29
Wages, grooms, watchmen and stable-boys 50.61
Superintendent’s salary 93.73
Veterinary’s salary 16.88
Motor ambulance upkeep 9.49
Motor bicycle upkeep 2.27
Sundries 28.85
Actual operating expenses. $276.74

Entries: 19 horses, 18 mules, 114 donkeys.

Exits: 6 horses, 10 mules, 74 donkeys.

Outpatients treated: 188 horses, 131 mules, 137 don-
keys, 7 dogs, 7 cats, 1 cow.

Other Fondouks Visited: 70, all Native Fondouks.

SUPERINTENDENT’S NOTES: 551 cases investi-
gated, 11,574 animals seen, 1,936 animals treated,
72 animals transferred to Fondouk Americam, 13
pack-saddles, (infected) destroyed.

SAMPLE OF A DAY’S WORK

WEDNESDAY, August 25: 6.30 A.M. Fondouk,
usual work. Dr. Larrouy, municipal veterinarian sent
with a policeman horse of cab No. 23 to be hospital-
ized. 9.30 A.M. inspected at Fes Jedid, Fondouk
Diouane, Bab Segma, Bou J cloud and Mellah all cab
horses. Ordered drivers to send the wounded ones to
Hospital to be treated. Then to Bab Guissa. .In-
spected more than 500 animals of countrymen bring-
ing corn and ﬁgs to the native markets. 2.30 P.M.
Fondouk. 3 P.M. to 5 RM Bab Ftouh inspection.
Stayed 10 minutes at the gate. Then to Bab Segma
and Fondouk. Animals in Hospital: 56.

G. DELON, Superintendent

A copy of the annual report will be sent to anyone
asking for it. Address: Sydney H. Coleman, Prem-
dent, 50 Madison Avenue, New York City.

“Laugh, Clown, Laugh!”

From the book of the above title, written
by the English author, Helen Trevelyan,
we have selected three different portions
and published them in the form of four—
page leaﬂets, with these titles: ‘Do Wild
Animals Prefer Captivity?”, “Films, Fakes
and Facts,” and “Trained Animals—Cruelty
Disguised.” As the names indicate, the ﬁrst
one deals with the problem of caged ani-
mals, the second one with objectionable
ﬁlms, and the third with animals on the
stage. Every animal lover who has not read
either the book or these selections should
send at once for free sample copies of each
of the leaﬂets. Miss Trevelyan writes with
the conviction of one who- knows whereof
she speaks, and does not hesitate to tear
the mask from the pretended humane treat-
ment of animals, caged, ﬁlmed or on the
stage. In quantities the leaﬂets are sold at
the rate of 50 cents per 100 copies, post-
paid anywhere. Address, American Hu-
mane Education Society, Boston.

Humane Calendar Ready

The Humane Calendar for 1938, pub-
lished by the American Humane Education
Society, is now ready. The beautiful col-
ored picture (Osborne) 9% X 47/8 inches,
is entitled, “Harvest Time,” and shows a
reaping scene with three horses attached to
the reaper.

The leaves of the pad, containing many
humane hints and suggestions, are detach-
able.

20 cents for a single copy, two for 35
cents; $1.80 per dozen, postpaid.

Special printing with Society’s name and
list of ofﬁcers, for immediate orders only,
100 @ $19; 200 @ $34; 300 @ $50; 500
@ $81; transportation extra. Address the
Secretary, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston.

 

y-np—t

1‘9““... w -

_ 1‘, "jfﬂrwgﬂwwluwaﬁww

.!
.‘Cu-n




,... 3v, ‘1'.
2’53: '

«'25-.

 

 

 

The Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

0 1 ANGELL ‘N 1868'AND FOR FORW‘ONE YE: , 1?? g ?
E ' ' ED]
3 ,

The American Humane Education Society

The American Band of Mercy

I would not enter on my list of friends,

Though graced with polished manners and ﬁne sense,

Yet wanting sensibility, the man
Who needlessly sets foot upon a worm.
—COWPYER

 
   
    

GLORY TO
GOD,
PEACE ON EARTH,
Kmouess, JUSTICE
AND MERCY TO
EVERY LIVING
CREATURE.

    
    
 
    
 

Published monthly by the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood, Massachusetts

June 29, 1917, at the Post Ofﬁce at Norwood, Mass., under the Act of March 3, 1879
of postage provided for in section 1103. Act of October 3, 1917, authorized, July 18, 1919

Boston Ofﬁce, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

Entered as second-class matter,
Acceptance for mailing at special rate

 

‘VoL 7O

January,l937

PQo.l

 

A HAPPY NEW YEAR!

from time immemorial, to be the customary

This seems,

thing to say as each new year takes up the
story the old has left unﬁnished. We are

glad to say it to all our readers. Hope and

cheer and a kindly wish are in these words.

of friendly greeting. It may not be to all a
Happy New Year, but that it may be is our
heartfelt wish.

When the Governor of Yalova, Turkey,
forbids the transporting of all fowl with
feet tied and decrees that on steamers fowl
must be kept in crates and nOt tied in
bundles, one must know that a better day
for animals is dawning in that land of
rapid changes.

The regrettable experiences through
which the League of .Nations has been pass—
ing seem to have held up any possible steps
that might have been taken by that body
to spur on the Maritime Powers of the
world to take joint action against the de—
struction of millions of our sea fowl annu—
ally doomed to a lingering death in the
coastal waters made fatal to these birds by
the discharge into them of refuse oil from
oil burning ships.

Those who have been interested in the
story of the marvelous sparrows that fol—
lowed Commander and Mrs. Holton to
China will be pleased to know that we have
just received two letters, one from Mr.
Toler, a gentleman in China who for the
past year and a half has been installing
equipment for the Combustion Engineering
Company of New York, conﬁrming the de-
tails of that story by his own personal visit
to Commander and Mrs. Holton; the other
from Mr. Gordon R. Jones from Chung-
king who has also seen the birds and sent
an article to the Associated Press relative
to them.

Why They Need Us

E are thinking at the moment not of

our human fellow mortals who need
us, but of those other children of Life’s
great Mother, the beasts of the ﬁeld, the
birds of the air, these countless millions who
for long eons of time have dwelt with us
on this round earth. Were they made just
to serve us? Have we a right to use them
at our pleasure, no matter what that may
mean of pain or suffering to them? Or
may they have come with us into the joy
and sorrow, the comedy and tragedy of this
world to share with us life’s toil and bur—
dens and whatever of gladness earth has to
give, the sun and the rain, the fellowship of
their kind, the satisfaction of hunger re—
lieved, the sleep that is rest and peace?
Was the Great Giver of life thinking of
their well—being as well as of ours when He
planned through the long process of crea-
tion to form every beast of the ﬁeld and
every fowl of the air and blessed them?
Must not all kindly hearted and thought—
ful people believe this last is true?

They need us because from the days when
our far—off ancestors stole from their caves
with club in hand to kill beast and bird for
food, to this very hour beast and bird, in
number like the stars in heaven, have met
a death, with few exceptions, needlessly
cruel and inhumane. Millions daily eat
their ﬂesh with never a thought of how they
die, with no vision of their frightened eyes
as they are driven toward the blood-stained
ﬂoors of the slaughter—house. Few cry out
against these cruelties that make for them
the house of death a chamber of horrors.
They need our voice to plead for a painless
death, above all the voices of those for
whom their lives are sacriﬁced.

They need us because of those who,
through forests and by stream, or on lake
and sea go forth to hunt and kill them,
nOt because need or hunger bids the hunter
kill them but because he loves the sport of
hunting. Some 7,000,000 such men and
boys,‘like an army with banners, march

forth year by year armed with shotgun and
riﬂe.

They need us because ‘of what death
means to them when, caught in the savage
grip of the iron trap, they have only to
struggle in torment and die, or wait in suf—
fering the trapper’s fatal blow. And this,
not because they have wronged the trapper,
but because someone who will never think
of that bitter cry in the wild when the jaws
of the trap closed upon its victim, may
wrap about her the skin torn from its dead
body. The wearer of the fur is by far the
guiltier of the two. We have some sym-
pathy with the trapper born where trapping
has been for him and his fathers the ‘chief
means of livelihood, and who has never had
the training that has made him sensitive to
what the vise of the steel trap may mean
to the helpless sufferers. Less his the
blame than that of those who demand his
trade.

Needed by us, too, those countless beasts
of burden, horses, mules, donkeys which
still in many lands are overladen, great
numbers driven to their tasks no matter
how raw the ﬂesh beneath the load or how
lame the weary legs. Few such we may
see among us today in lands like ours in
comparison with earlier days but in many a
land they wait and wait the coming of a
better day.

And those lost, stray, homeless, diseased,
pitiful small animals, the cats that by hun-
dreds of thousands roam the back streets
and alleys of our cities need us. Living on
little but refuse for the most part, starving
often, and always frightened, and multi—
plying rapidly in spite of their wretched lot,

who shall care for them, gather them up, ‘

give the saddest of them a painless death
and ﬁnd for some a welcome home? Who
shall do this? Who are doing it? Our
humane societies. So, because these need
the humane societies, the humane societies
need the friends who make them possible.

Humane Sunday. April 11; Be Kind to
Animals Week, April 12—17, 1937.

l

 




 

 

 

1%we4
Hill Hunter

CLAUDE WEIMER

Waiting in ambush and following trails,
Over the hills I seek my fun,

Hunting for squirrels, rabbits, and quails—
I am a hunter without a gun.

Ducks on the water, geese on the wing,
Deer in the forest, wild and free!
Summer and winter, fall and spring,

All are open seasons to me.

I do not kill and I do not maim
And I do not harm with trap or rope,
But I hunt the hills and I bag my game
With a camera and a telescope.

Early Winter

JOHN RITCHEY

The fox is holed, the ﬁckle birds
Have fled the North with winter words.

The snow that flickers in the air
Clings to the velvet-coated hare.

The squirrel investigates each tree
To ﬁnd his hidden largesse.

And slow among the frozen stalks
The young deer clothed in beauty walks.

JACK LONDON SAID:

“Let all humans inform themselves of the
inevitable and eternal cruelty by the means
of which only can animals be compelled to
perform before revenue-paying audiences.
Show the management that such turns are
unpopular, and in a day, in an instant, the
management will cease catering such turns
to its audiences.”

Do you know that since 1918, when the
Jack London Club started, 677,920 persons
in this country have joined as a protest
against this form of cruelty? Send your
name and address today for full information
to The Jack London Club, 180 Longwood
Avenue, Boston, Mass.

0171? .DIIAIB ziAbIﬂIALLS
Death Valley’s Animal Life

JASPER B. SINCLAIR

AND of bleak desolation is California’s

sun—baked Death Valley. The combined

heat and dryness of this region is the most

extreme of any part of the world in which
systematic records have ever been kept. .

Travel in Death Valley in the summer
time is not recommended, particularly by
those who have. knowledge» of the scorching,
blistering heat that ﬁlls this below-sea-level
depression.

It is a natural supposition that this valley
is devoid of all life when the summer heat
reaches furnace—like proportions. But,
strangely enough, Death Valley has an
abundant plant and animal life that actu—
ally thrives on the desert heat and aridity.

Here, in this valley of sun—baked rock
and sand, lives a species of mountain sheep.
These animals are closely related to the
Rocky Mountain variety whose natural
habitat is high above the timber line. These
valley sheep look very much like their moun-
tain cousins, and live entirely on the plants
of the desert. They roam the entire valley,
but are most frequently seen ﬂocking
around the far-scattered watering places.

How did these mountain sheep, accus-
tomed at some time or other to the highest
altitudes of the Rockies, stray into a region
that is 270 feet below sea level? .No one
knows the» answer to that puzzling question.
.Nor is it at all possible to compute just
when their ancestors migrated from their
chill mountain peaks into this sun-scorched
valley. That is a problem for naturalists
and scientists to ponder.

Whatever the answer, the fact remains
that the Death Valley sheep are both
healthy and virile in their strange home.
Clothed by nature in shaggy wool to pro-
tect them from the chill mountain winds
and driving snowstorms of the Rockies,
they have long since adapted themselves to
the heat and dryness that here repreSents
the opposite extreme of the thermometer.

The sheep share the desert with two
equally strange companions, both of a con-
siderably smaller breed. One is the tiny

 

 

KADIAK BEAR (left) AND BLACK BEAR (right)

Jan.1937

pocket mouse. The other is the kangaroo rat
which, like its big brothers the kangaroo
and wallaby, can travel with equal facility
on two or four legs.

Both these rodents are common in Death
Valley. Those who have studied their hab-
its believe that they exist chieﬂy on plant
seeds and never touch water. That in itself
is an oddity of nature no less strange than
the migration of mountain sheep into the
lowest region in continental United States.

A Reformed Hunter

HENRY H. GRAHAM

@NE day during the deer hunting sea—
son I stopped at a little mountain ser—
vice station for gasoline. Another motor-
ist was being served at the same time.

“Going after your deer this year, Ed?”
the attendant asked a young man who was
driving.

“No,” he replied ﬁrmly. “I don’t get any
kick out of that sort of thing any more.”

“But I thought you were such an inveter-
ate hunter,” persisted the attendant. “This
is the ﬁrst season you’ve missed going,
isn’t it?”

“Yes,” was the answer. “From now on
I’m through pulling triggers.”

The gas dispenser looked inquiringly at
the young man, who explained his change
of heart with these words:

“An experience of last fall cured me of
hunting. A beautiful stag bounded out of a
grove of quaking aspens. He was a mag—
niﬁcent fellow with a remarkable head. I
could picture that head on my ofﬁce wall.
My ﬁrst shot fatally wounded him. The
animal plunged to earth within a hundred
yards. When I went over to ﬁnish him I
almost cried. He looked up at me so help-
lessly as if to say, ‘Is this any way to treat
a friend?’

“Mercifully I put the creature out of his
misery because that was the only humane
thing to do. But I’ll never hunt again.
Furthermore, that magniﬁcent head doesn’t
hang on my ofﬁce wall. I gave it away.
Somehow I couldn’t bear to have that head
looking down at me all day long to remind
me of my cruelty. ‘ .

“Boy-like, my two youngsters are crazy
about guns. But by the time they’re old
enough to shoot they won’t want to, I’m
sure. I’m working on them now and am
positive that they’ll turn into wild life pro-
tectors instead of killers.”

“You used to be an ardent duck shooter?”
reminded the attendant. “Have you given
that sport up, too?”

“Yes,” was the reply. “In the ﬁrst place,
it isn’t sport. Killing never is sport to me.
Two years ago I winged a beautiful mal—
lard drake, which catapulted into the water
out of gunshot range. The creature swam
for mid-lake, its lovely green head ﬂashing
in the November sunlight. I couldn’t help
thinking of the physical torture suffered by
that bird. And I’ve never hunted ducks
since.”

Our readers are urged to clip from “Our
Dumb Animals” various articles and request
their local editors to republish. Copies so
mutilated will be made good by us upon
application.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 76
More Changes Needed

WILLIS MEHANNA

HESE are days of changes. Changes

in the administration of government.
Days of coming justice to the poor and to
the common people. It is their government
and country and they should have their
share of its blessings and beneﬁts.

But it should not stop here. The dumb
animals of the country have rights to which
they are as much entitled as humans are to
theirs. Too much liberty to some is a
detriment to them unless they are taught to
consider the rights of creatures over which
they have authority.

More reforms are needed. Laws should
be passed forbidding rodeo performances
and other amusements where animals are
forced to do stunts they do not want to do
and which cause them worry and suffering.
Rodeos are not paying ventures. Those who
run them nearly always go broke. They
are patronized mostly by the unthinking and
indifferent whom they make worse. The
same is true of county fairs that permit the
abuse of animals for the sake of amusing
the depraved element.

Our county fair has gone broke and in
order to survive must raise ﬁfteen thousand
dollars. It is impossible to raise one-fourth
that amount. Because of some of the per-
formances it permitted in regard to the
mistreatment of animals, people of the right
sort would not support it. The right sort of
people are greatly in the majority yet they
are not always the crusaders for justice they
should be. I think no fair at all is better
than one that allows barbarities to be
practised upon dumb animals.

A grasshopper chews sidewise rather than
up and down. He has a pair of horny jaws
which are attached at the sides of his head.

 

Photo by W. Henry Boller
GETTING ACQUAINTED

OUR

DUMB ANIMALS

May, 1937

“Marmion,” the Sure-Footed
CLARENCE M. LINDSAY

dumb creatures, has ﬁgured in many

an epic tale; but there are doubtless
myriad instances where it has rendered
great services to man of which there is no
written record.

I am going to tell you the story of “Mar—
mion”—a tale which carries us back to the
early days of New Hampshire,——days when
dangerous wild beasts might beset the trav-
eler and when raging torrent or swollen
stream might work as great havoc as. today
even if there were no populous towns to be
swept away.

Major David Campbell of Henniker Town—
ship was a Revolutionary soldier, and Mrs.
Campbell (Elizabeth Arbuckle) was known
for her skill in ministering to the sick, it
seems. Calls for aid were of frequent occur-
rence, physicians were few, and compounds
and extracts from roots and herbs, raised in
garden or found in adjacent woodland,
proved efficacious.

Probably no housewife in that region was
more adept in restoring pioneer folk to
health than Elizabeth Campbell, and since
calls might come from a long distance her
faithful horse, Marmion, (ﬁtly named for an
owner of probable Scotch ancestry) was
doubtless about as well known as she.

The Contoocook River passes through
Henniker—look at your map—and in 1780
citizens of Henniker voted to erect a bridge
for crossing the river. Where the river was
150 feet wide stone abutments were built
at each edge and a stone pier placed mid—
way of the stream. “Stringers,” so—called,
of heavy pine rested on these, ﬂat—surfaced
on one side, and on these were thick and
heavy planks.

This bridge ﬁgures in Marmion’s exploit,
so it is worth going into
particulars about; and it
was a “great wonder,”
with its posts looking like
images at regular inter-

T HE horse, one of the noblest of God’s

vals on either side, to
which the railing was
bolted.

Years passed and a

severe winter came, snow
drifting and piling up,
but when warm rains
came it melted quickly,
and the river was turned
into a raging torrent,
overﬂowing its banks.

Now, in the midst of
the storm came a request
to attend a sick woman
across the river and sev—
eral miles from Mrs.
Campbell’s home. We can
imagine that Major
Campbell pleaded With
his wife not to attempt
reaching the patient in
the storm, yet she
mounted Marmion and
set out.

The bridge was above
water and seemingly
strong; and she managed

to reach the place, stayed for a time and
at midnight started to return, the storm
still raging, with rain and wind. If she
were to stay there the snow might become
so soft as to keep her from getting back
for a long time.

She went on, big trees roaring, wild beasts
making noises which might Strike terror to
the bravest, and gained the foot of the
mountain, traversed the plain and finally
came to the overflow of the river.

The end of the bridge was reached, and
Marmion halted. In: fact, Marmion was not
minded to go on, but Mrs. Campbell urged
him. “Carry me safely home, for it is high
time we were there.”

Marmion, even if he considered the pro—
ceeding was some-thing not to be thought of
by anyone who valued life or limb, never—
theless went on. Mrs. Campbell perceived
that the water was now much higher, and
indeed her feet were in it as she sat her sad—
dle. The current was swifter, too; and the
horse was near losing his footing.

Marmion’s rider wondered why her steed
took so much time in getting over, for de-
spite the wind and water, one might think
that crossing a bridge even partly under
water should be accomplished without loit—
ering.

Now the horse nearly went to his knees,
stopped, went on once more a short space,
then gave a sudden bound and placed his
feet on the ground though water was all
about him. Up the bank he went and at
last gained the Campbell home.

Someone wanted to know how she got
across the river.

“On the bridge, of course,” she answered.

“Why,” said Major Campbell, “the planks
of the bridge were all washed away, shortly
after you crossed it yesterday, and how did
you get across?”

She declared that old Marmion was a good
while in crossing the river and that she no-
ticed he placed his feet carefully, but what
he crossed upon she didn’t know.

Examination made later revealed that
Marmion had crossed on one of the stringers
of the bridge which was still in position!
The others had all been washed away!

That was a perilous ride, and if it hadn’t
been for Marmion it might have been the
last one that Mrs. Campbell ever took. But
perhaps old Marmion realized how precious
was the life of the woman he was bearing;
and that there was nothing to do but stay
on the wrong side of the stream and freeze,
or somehow pick his way across.

Another witness to the intelligence of our
dumb friends, and even today Mrs. Camp—
bell’s ride may be told at New Hampshire
ﬁresides.

The Boston Public Library lecture hall,
Copley Square, was ﬁlled to capacity Sun—
day evening, April 11, when Thornton W'.
Burgess lectured on “Friendly Folk in Fur
and Feathers,” under the auspices of .the
Massachusetts S. P. C. A. His intimate
and informative talk, supplemented by
fascinating slides and moving pictures,
was most heartily welcomed by the em
thusiastic audience.

, - :4r",“.c‘
I .5. "A. fi-‘-‘§,.i~!'l’__.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

      
  
  
    
     

(TETRACHOETHYLENE c. 1'.)

WORM CAPSULES

eﬂectively remove .
Large Roundworms

and Hookworms
Dependable, safe, easy-to-
give worm treatment. -
Keep your dog worm free
and thrifty.

WRITE FOR

n the practical removal]

3’ worms in 5°“ CAfDaDRESS DESK N 58 G
d a es. — —

breeds an Animal Industry Dept,

PARKE, DAVIS 8: 00., DetrOIt, Much.

Drug Stores Sell ~Parke- Davis Products

  

 
      

 

 

 

 

 

Buy
“THRILLING MOMENTS ON
PALESTINE TOUR” $5.

(Palestine, Egypt, France, Italy), 25
chapters, 60 pictures. JACOB W.
POWELL, D. D., 218 Broadway,
MALDEN, MASS. (Agents wanted.)

 

 

 

 

 

    

_ '3‘ HSOAPandIL
- . murmur

PIMPLES

tching and burning of pimples, / 1' mi ,0"
rashes, eczema. relieved by

    

 

 

THIS SPACE
CONTRIBUTED

 

 

 

 

Since 1832

J. S. WATERMAN & SONS, Inc.
Mnbertakers

BOSTON—BROOKLINE—CAMBRIDGE
City and Out-of-Town Service

 

 

 

 

____...__...__._._ ._..._....__» -

Humane literature and Band of Mercy Supplies

For Sale at 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass, at these prices, postpaid.
Titles in bold-face type are of books or booklets

Our Dumb Animals, 1936, bound volume $1.00
Colored Posters, 17 X 28 inches, with

attractive pictures and verses, Six in

the set ............................. 1.00
Be Kind to Animals Blotters, 61/8 X 3% $0.50 per 100

About the Horse

Black Beauty (English), cloth,....$1.00 and 50 cts.
What Constitutes Cruelty, Francis H.

Rowley ........................ $0.30per100

Humane Horse book, 32 pp., 5 cts. each or 5.00 “ “

The Horse———Treatment of Sores, etc. .60

Humane Education Leaflet, No. 5 .50 Z: ::
The Horse’s Prayer .................. .30 ..- “
The Bell of Atri, poem by Longfellow .. .50 “ ..
The Care of Mules .................... .50
About the Dog

Beautiful Joe, new, illus., $1.50 ........ small, 50 cts.
Distemper in Dogs, Dr. Schneider ...... Free
Rabies vs. Running Fits, Dr. Schneider . Free

Eulogy on the Dog, by Vest, post-card .$1.00per 100
The Dog—~Its Care in Health and Disease .60 “ “
Feeding the Dog and the Cat, Dr.

Schneider ...................... 2.00 “ “
Humane Education Leaflets, Nos. 3 and 4 .50 “ “
What the Chained Dog Says .......... .50 “ “
The Story of Barry .................. .30 “ “
“Don” and His Boy Scout Friends,

J. P. Lyons ........................ .50 “ “
Road Accidents to Dogs, 4 pp. ...... Free
Boots’ Day, play, for two boys and three

girls .................... 3 cts. each, ﬁve for 10 cts.

About the Bird
The Birds of God, 318 pp., illus .......... cloth, $0.45
Trial of the Birds, play, 3 cts. ea.; 12 for
25 cts. $2.00 per 100

Humane Education Leaflets, Nos. 1 and 2 .50 per 100
How the Birds Help the Farmer .50 “ “
The Air-gun and the Birds

............ .50 “ “

About the Cat

The Cat—~Its Care in Health and Disease $0.60 per 100
Surplus Cats .5 “ “

........................ 0

The Cat in Literature ................ 50 “ “
Do Not Leave Your Cat to Starve .50 “ “
Mollie Whitefoot’s Vacation ............ 50 “ “

“The Beggar Cat,” post-card, 6 cts. doz :50 “ “

Tommy’s Tavern, 4 pp. .............. 1.00 “ “

I Knew She was a Lady ............... .50 “ “
About Other Animals

Prince Rudolf’s Quest, Kenniston, 150

pp., special ....................... boards, 50 cts.
The Strike at Shane’s, cloth, 3O cts.. .. .paper, 7 cts.
For Pity’s Sake ....................... paper, 5 cts.
Michael Brother of Jerry, Jack London, cloth, 75 cts.
Heaven’s Rage, Helen Trevelyan ............ 25 cts.
Laugh. Clown, Laugh! Helen Trevelyan . .cloth, $1.00
The Great Cruelty, Dr. Rowley ........ Free

First Aid to Animals, Dr. Schneider, 8 pp.

$1.00 per 100
Gripped in the Teeth of Steel, 2 pp. 1.00 “ “
How to Kill Animals Humanely, 4 pp. .. 1.00 “ “
Humane Education Leaflet, No. 6, Animals .50 “ “
Ways of Kindness ..........

...... . . . .50 per 100

Humane Education Leaflet, No. 7, Farm
Animals ........................... .50 “ “
A Wise Fish .......................... .50 “ “

The Jack London Club

What is the Jack London Club? ........ .30 per 100
Foreword from “Michael Brother of Jerry” .30 " “
Films, Fakes and Facts, Helen Trevelyan,
4 pp. ....... . ...................... .50 “ “
Do Wild Animals Prefer Captivity? Helen
Trevelyan, 4 pp. ....................
Humane Education

The Relation of the Home to Character
Formation, Dr. Francis H. Rowley... Free
The Humane Bulletin, for use in schools,
96 pp. ................. 12 cents each; ten for $1.00
Care and Kindness for Our Animal
Friends, 29 pp., paper covers, many
illus. .............. 15 cents each; seven for $1.00
Kindness Picture Book, 32 pp., 15 cts. ; seven for $1.00
The Teacher’s Helper in Humane Edu-
cation, 32 p . ....................... each, 10 cts.
An Early Start to Kindness, Lucia F.
Gilbert, 48 pp. For ﬁrst and second
grades .......................... each, 10 cts.
Incidents About Animals as Told to
School Children by George T. Angel]
2 cts. each; $1.00 per 100
Picture Lesson Cards, each 10 cts., set

of eight ........................... 35 cts.
“Be Kind to Animals” pennants ...... each, 25 cts.
The Humane Idea, Dr. Francis H.

Rowley .............. cloth, 35 cts.; paper, 15 cts.
Friends and Helpers (selections for

school use) Sarah J. Eddy .......... cloth $1.00

Lessons on Kindness to Animals $3.00 per 100
The B—K—T—A—Club, play, 3 cts. each; ten for 25c.
Fred Changes His Mind, play, 5 cts. each; six for 250.
“And a Little Child Shall Lead Them,”
play ................ 3 cts. each; ten for 25 cts.
Friends of Fur and Feather, play...
3 cts. each; ten for 25 cts.
Humane Exercises ................... $1.50 per 100
Humane Sunday, 1937 . ....... . 1.00 “ “
Humane Education the Vital Need, Dr.
Rowley, short radio address, 2 cts. each; .75 “ “
Humane Education, What to Teach and
How to Teach It .. .......... _ ..... .50 “ “
Outlines of Study in Humane Education 1.50 “ “
Early Lessons in Kindness or Cruelty .. .50 “ “

A Talk with the Teacher .............. .50 “ “
Our Love for Animals, a short radio ad-

dress .................. 2 cts. each; 1.00 “ “
The Coming Education ................ .30 “ “
A Festival of Tender Mercies .......... .50 “ “
Need of Humane Education Societies and

Methods of Forming Them .......... .50 “ “
A Great Prophecy, Dr. Rowley ........ Free

Band of Mercy
“Be Kind to Animals” Buttons, three
styles—Band of Mercy, Humane So-
ciety, or S. P. C. A ................. $1.00 per 100
Buttons—white star on blue ground with
gilt letters and border, one cent each 1.00 “ “

Badges, gold finish, large, 10 cts. small 5 cts.
“Band of Mercy” Pennant ............ 35 cts.
Songs of Happy Life, with music, S.

J. Eddy ............................ 50 cts.
Songs of Happy Life (56 pages, words

only) ............................. $3.00 per 100
Band of Mercy Membership Card ...... .50 “ “
How to Form Bands of Mercy .......... .50 “ “

Does it Pay, Story of one Band of Mercy .30 “ “
No order by mail for less than 5 cts.

Please enclose remittance with orders for less than $1

AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY, 180 Longwood Ave., Boston, Mass.

 

 

 

 

REDUCED

scenes at Society’s Rest Farm for Horses,

30 minutes.

State Whether regular 35 mm., or 16 mm., is required

Terms on application to Secretary, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston

 

 

PRICES FOR SUMMER RENTALS!

“IN BEHALF OF ANIMALS”

Film showing activities of Angell Animal Hospital of Massachusetts S. P. C. A., Boston,
Methuen, and its Animal Shelters. Two reels,

“THE BELL OF ATRI”

One-reel Film, illustrating Longfellow’s poem of the same title

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 122

    

GLORY TO
GOD,
PEACE ON EARTH,

 
    
  

    
    
  

AND MERCY TO
EVERY LIVING
CREATURE.

Founded by Geo. T. Angell Incorporated 1889

For rates of membership in both of our Societies
see back cover. Checks should be made payable to
Treasurer.

Ofﬁcers of the American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN. ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds
JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First
Boston Corporation
CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President, United Shoe
Machinery Corporation
PHILIP STOCKTON, President, First National Bank of
Boston

Foreign Corresponding Representatives

George B. Duff ................... Australia
Luis Pareja Cornejo ............... Ecuador
Charles A. Williams .............. France
Leonard T. Hawksley ............. Italy
Mrs. Mary P. E. Nitobe .......... Japan
Mrs. Marie C. E. Houghton ....... Madeira
Dr. A. T. Ishkanian .............. Mexico
Joaquin Julia ..................... Spain
Mrs. Alice W. Manning ........... Turkey

Humane Press Bureau
Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke, Secretary
180 Longwood Ave., Boston
Field Workers of the Society

Mrs. Alice L. Park, Palo Alto, California
Mrs. Jennie R. Nichols, Tacoma, Washington
James D. Burton, Harriman, Tennessee
Mrs. Katherine Weathersbee, Atlanta, Georgia
Rev. F. Rivers Barnwell, Fort Worth, Texas
Miss Blanche Finley, Richmond, Virginia
Rev. John W. Lemon, Ark, Virginia

Miss Lucia F. Gilbert, Boston, Massachusetts
Mrs. Jennie R. Toomim, Chicago, Illinois
Seymour Carroll, Columbia, South Carolina
Rev. R. E. Griffith, De Land, Florida

Field Representative
Wm. F. H. Wentzel, M. 8., Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

Field Lecturer in Massachusetts
Ella A. Maryott

SUMMARY OF ACTIVITIES OF FIELD
WORKERS FOR JUNE, 1937

Number of Bands of Mercy formed, 806
Number of addresses made, 239

Number of persons in audiences, 50,394

Safe Annuity Bonds

HE Annuity Bonds of our two Soci—

eties are absolutely safe and yield a
return according to one’s age. They make
their appeal ordinarily to people over 40
years of age. Send the coupon for a free
folder which gives full details.
The Massachusetts S. P. C. A. (or)
The American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Ave., Boston, Mass.

Without obligation to me, please send me
the folder about your Annuity Bonds.
Name

Age

...............................

OUR DUMB

ANIMALS

Aug. 1937

 

An Interior View of the Fondouk at Fez

With this attractive picture comes a note
saying, “An Italian ﬂorist gives us the trees,
shrubs and plants as we need them, in re—

turn for the fertilizer from the Fondouk,
which formerly was an expense for trans-
portation to remove twice a week.”

 

Rather Amusing

The New York Sun published the follow-
ing, from which we quote in part, just
after the Coronation of England’s new
King:

A coronation news flash presents a quaint
Gilbertian atrocity that must have shaken
the College of Heralds to their buskins.
Ermine and vair are the only legitimate
furs of heraldry, as every democratic Yan—
kee should know, and ermine is the only
fur that may decently be worn in royalty’s
presence, but it is told that her Grace the
Duchess of Hamilton and Brandon waited
on their Majesties at the coronation in a
robe of rabbit skins.

And what’s more, the report has it that
the Duchess ﬂaunted the same bunny skins
when she waited on Queen Mary at the
coronation of 1911. Such special earth trem—
ors are not narrowly circumscribed, how—
ever, and the scandal reaches and pene-
trates structures far beyond the precincts
of Westminster and the Tower. London is
disquieted, and that’s that; but some hu-
manitarians of the Empire, of America, of
the world, are stunned and saddened, while
some others are outraged.

It is well known that her Grace has bee.
for many years the valiant leader of a
crusade against the trapping of fur-bearing
animals, and the president of the British
Animal Defence Society; and it is well
known that the trappers’ methods in col—
lecting the little ermines for royal raiment
are particularly inhuman. Then who, for-
sooth, is the Duchess to be wrapping her-
self in rabbit skins to save a ﬂock of er~
mine? Yet a goodly army of humanitarians
know quite well that the gentle lady of the
13th Duke of Hamilton and Brandon did
not wear a single rabbit pelt at the cor—
onation, or an ermine pelt, or any other pelt.

The Duchess wears no furs, but her coats
and mantles are of materials, substitutes
for furs, which can hardly be distinguished
from sealskin, ermine and Persian lamb.

American Fondouk, Fez

Report for May, 1937—31 Days

Daily average large animals 49
Forage for same _ $ 74.58
Put to sleep 24 3.73
Transportation 4.78
Daily average dogs 9.7
Forage for same 6.76
Wages, grooms, watchmen and stable-boys 60.71
Superintendent’s salary 112.43
Veterinary’s salary 20.23
Motor ambulance upkeep 40.54
Motor bicycle upkeep 4.62
Sundries 72.80
Actual operating expenses $401.18

Entries: 7 horses, 8 mules, 80 donkeys.

Exits: 5 horses 5 mules, 59 donkeys.

Outpatients treated: 50 horses, 61 mules, 123 don-
keys, 12 dogs, 5 cats, 1 cow.

Other Fondouks visited: 70, all native Fondouks.

SUPERINTENDENT’S NOTES: 292 cases investi-
gated, 5,458 animals seen, 1,142 animals treated, 54
animals transferred to Fondouk Americain, 28 pack-
saddles (infected) destroyed.

D. DELON, Superintendent

A day’s work in May from Superintendent Delon’s
Report:

Sunday, 16th: Police Bou Jeloud sent one mule to
Hospital. Spent morning at Fondouk. P. M. Passing
by kilns quarter saw one donkey badly wounded on
right hind leg. Went to Hospital, returned with one
of‘our men, inspected all donkeys loaded with dwarf
palm, sent 7 to hospital and destroyed 7 infected
pack-saddles. Dr. Magel, from Switzerland, visited
the Fondouk.

Animals in Hospital: 49.

Summary of Report for 1936

Average daily number of animals in the Hospital 52.6

Average daily number of dogs cared for 7.6
Total number of animals hospitalized as incur-
able and humanely put to sleep 555

Animals hospitalized in the course of the year 1,196
Number of visits made to the various fondouks

of the city 4,102
Animals inspected in the course of these visits 58,826
Animals treated in the course of these visits 12,045
Number of infected pack-saddles destroyed 123

It is interesting to note from the ﬁgures above that
the number of animals presented to us for our care
through our visits grew over the preceding year
by 2,556.

Endowed stalls and kennels are needed
in the Angell Memorial Animal Hos-
pital. Payments of thirty-ﬁve dollars
for a kennel or seventy-ﬁve dollars for
a stall will insure a suitable marker
inscribed with donor’s name. Terms of
permanent endowment of free stalls and
kennels will be given upon application.

 

‘-—f-9-:. a ~—-

 

 

 




 

O- 1. AN

 

u I 1 k .
U, S.Trade MarkRegistemd n 1

CELL 1N 1868.AND FOR FORTY‘ONE

The Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

The American Humane Education Society
The American Band of Mercy

I would not enter on my list of friends,

Though graced with polished manners and ﬁne sense,

Yet wanting sensibility, the man
Who needlessly sets foot upon a worm.

—-COWPER

     

GLORY To
GOD,
PEACE ON EARTH,
Kmonsss, JUSTICE
AND Mencv 70*
EVERY mee
CREATURE.

   
       
   

Entered aasecond-clasmmatter, June 29, 1917, at the Post Ofﬁce at Norwood, Mass., under the Act of March 3, 1879
Acceptance for mailing at spec1al rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 3, 1917, authorized, July 13, 1919

Boston Oﬂice, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

 

Vol. 70

During recent years, both in this coun-
try and across the water, mental cruelty
suffered by animals through ill-usage is
more and more being given consideration
by the courts. That they can suffer mental
distress as well as physical is well known
to all students of animal life.

The celebrated English Canon, “Dick”
Sheppard is reported to have said that since
Parliament begins every day its proceed-
ings with prayer they might feel that that
daily prayer “was a mockery until they had
ended forever the tragedy of the hunted
stag and the hunted hind.”

Our Animals, San Francisco, tells us
the protests of the Butte Co. Humane So—
ciety recently resulted. in the mayor for-
bidding the tossing of chickens, ducks and
other barnyard fowl out of airplanes. The
mayor said, “I intend to see that the law
regarding cruelty to animals is enforced.”

Great as may justly be the credit given
to the celebrated Arctic and Antarctic ex-
plorers, too little is said of those hard-
working, half—wolf, half-dog, huskies that
have given their lives in the service of
these expeditions. Only a small percentage
of these dogs return from these polar ven—
tures. It is the dogs that have crossed the
frozen solitudes and hauled the food and
stores to the various depots along the line.

From an English exchange we read that
once every week the British Broadcasting
Company has a feature called “I Protest”
in which we are told persons air “genuine
or synthetic grievances against people, cus-
toms or even animals.” Recently the dogs,
unfortunately, got a severe call-down by a
man said to be “well educated and lavish-
ly adjectived.” His worst charge was
against dogs who don’t know enough to
abandon an unworthy master, but are

apparently perfectly willing to keep bad
company.

 

October, 1937

Is Dog Racing Doomed?

HE majority of good citizens, we be—

lieve, will be glad to know that Gov-
ernor Merriam of California has vetoed the
dog racing bill and that Governor Lehman
of New York and Governor Ammons of
Colorado have vetoed similar bills, and
that the legislatures of several states, in-
cluding Maryland, killed the racing bills
before they reached the governors of these
states. In Michigan, we are told, a bill to
legalize dog racing was thrown out by the
Senate. Opposition to these various bills
has been based both upon moral and hu-
mane grounds. The cruelties involved in the
training of racing dogs has told heavily
against this strangely called “sport.” Back
of these dog races, of course, there is an
enormous amount of money in the hands
of those who are proﬁting by them. In
spite of all that, we believe this is one of
the rackets that in the near future will
meet its doom.

Good News from Ireland

We learn from our representative in Ire-
land that since the second of August, this
year, a law is in force in Ireland making it
compulsory to have all livestock humanely
slaughtered. He says, however, that during
all last winter he was able to get the most
of the butchers to use the humane killer.
We gather from the information that some
device like the captive bolt pistol or the
English humane killer will be the instru-
ment used under the new law.

Hang on to your leash—$500 in damages
were recently collected by an elderly lady
in London who was violently thrown to the
sidewalk, because of her legs being caught
by the leash of a dog which had broken
away from the hand of its owner. The
judge awarded damages on the ground that
the defendant had been negligent in not
having sufﬁciently ﬁrm hold upon the leash.

No. 10

Leland Stanford, who was America’s
model horseman, would not permit the “out-
rageous contrivance” of the checkrein on
any of his horses. It was he who said:
“A horse should be treated like a gentle-
man.”

We have just received word that the
Cinematograph Films (Animals) Bill will
doubtless have been passed by the British
Parliament before this reaches our readers.
By this Act no ﬁlm can be shown in which
there appears any evidence of cruelty in the
preparation of the ﬁlm. That is a long
step ahead in animal legislation.

A new form of so-called sport has come
to some prominence in New Connemara Is-
land. It is horse racing from the mainland
across to the Island, a course of a mile.
The fastest swimmer seems to be the win—
ner. This race is known as the race of the
Riders of the Sea over a mile lying across
the deep sea channel between the main-
land and the Island. What next?

It seems that real progress is being made
toward securing a humane trap in which to
catch fur-bearing animals. To ﬁnd such a
trap strong enough and yet light enough
for the trapper to cover long distances is
a serious problem. We may grow humane
enough some day to spoil the whole trap-
ping business by refusing to demand the
death of animals that we may wear the
garments God gave them.

Dealing with cows as though designed by
Nature to be treated only as milking ma-
chines, tying them up day in and day out
in stanchions, and dealing with hens as only
laying machines, conﬁning them continu-
ously to narrow wire quarters is against
Nature and we believe dairy men and poul-
try men will someday ﬁnd this out. Cows
and hens, with us, have the right to enough
freedom and outdoor air to make life mean
something more to them than just milk
and eggs.

 

 

 




U, S.Trade Mark,Registey-ed \ n 1

 

 

1 ANGELL 1N 1868.AND FOR HRH/“ONE

The Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

The American Humane Education Society

The American Band of Mercy

I would not enter on my list of friends,

Though graced with polished manners and ﬁne sense,

Yet wanting sensibility, the man
Who needlessly sets foot upon a worm.
—COWPER

GLORY 'ro
GOD,
PEACE on EARTH,

AND MERCY 1'0‘
EVERY LIVING
CREATURE.

 

Entered as.second—class.matter, June 29, 1917, at the Post Ofﬁce at Norwood, Mass., under the Act of March 3, 1879
Acceptance for maillng at spec1al rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 3, 1917, authorized, July 13, 1919

Boston Ofﬁce, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

 

Vol. 70

April, 1937

NO. 4'

 

Welcome to the twenty-third annual BE
KIND TO ANIMALS WEEK, opening
with Humane Sunday, April 11. Let us
make it the ﬁne-st yet.

Hundreds of special radio talks will be
given under the auspices of the various
Humane Societies of the country during Be
Kind to Animals. Wee-k. Be sure to have
your radio tuned in to get some of these
messages.

A million hives of honey bees destroyed.
So say the‘bee experts. How has this hap-
pened? Scattering poisonous dust from air-
planes to kill insects. Poison on the ﬂower
means death to the bees.

Congratulations to the City Council of
Oakland, California, which has recently
passed an ordinance making it unlawful for
minors under 18 years of age to use or own
air-riﬂes of any sort within the city limits.

In Scotland a farmer was ﬁned $100 and
a farm servant $15, for dehorning thirty-
one head of cattle without the use of an
anaesthetic. The maximum ﬁne for the

defendant would have been $775, or $25 per .

animal.

The San Francisco S. P. C. A. has had
two bills introduced into the present Cali-
fornia legislature, one to make unlawful the
use of live animals for training racing
dogs, and one to make it unlawful to use the
device known as the “running W” on horses
or other animals. This latter was the device
used in the ﬁlming of “The Charge of the
Light Brigade,” resulting in the throwing
and injuring of horses to the extent that
court prosecutions followed and the incident
aroused the indignation of humanely inclined
movie patrons throughout the country. The
passage of these bills, aimed at two out-
standing cruelties in California, would mark
a great advance in the humane cause in
that state.

The Facts about Italy

LETTER has just come to us from au—

thority we cannot question correcting a
statement made by us over a~ year ago con-
cerning bird protection in Italy. We stated,
and at that time believed the report sent us,
that the shooting and trapping of birds had
been] completely forbidden by Mussolini him—
self. Now We are told that it was not Musso—
lini but the Minister of Agriculture who
signed a decree in 1932 forbidding until fur—
ther orders, not forever, the shooting and
netting of birds on the island of Capri. The
latest report is that shooting on the island
has ceased but the netting, or trapping, of
the birds is still allowed to ”continue. From
the Report of the Hawksley Society we take
the following: “An Article in La. Costa
Azzwrrw A gm’aola, Floreale, published in San
Remo in July, 1933, complained that thou—
sands of birds were still captured with lime
every Sunday; and in February, 1934, the
same journal reproduced a photograph of
birds taken with lime in Noyvember, 1933.
It added that thousands of elementary
school-boys carried bird traps and catapults
in their pockets, which they used openly in
town gardens and in the country; and the-y
continued to take the eggs, nests and young
of song-birds. Moreover, although it was
forbidden to shoot within 100 yards of
houses, the owners of almost all villas shot
birds in their gardens.” Alas for the birds
of Italy!

No new laws for the general protection
of animals have been passed since 1913 and
Mussolini came into power in 1922. There
has been, it is true, a special law regulat—
ing vivisection which was passed in 1931.

A bill has been introduced into the
Georgia Legislature to regulate the sale of
ﬁreworks and to prohibit the sale of toy
pistols that shoot caps. Perhaps some day
we shall be wise enough to ban toy pistols
generally and save the eyes that are now
too often blinded from the misuse of these
implements.

charking the Dog

ET us hope that whatever the unfortu-

nate dog in Buffalo suffered from the
operation known as debarking that the pub-
lic opinion aroused in opposition to any such
practice may save many other dogs from
the same experience. We can conceive of no
man who really loves his dog thinking for
a moment of subjecting him to this opera—

tion, and we are in heartiest sympathy with.

the words of Dr. William J. Lentz, pro-
fessor of anatomy at the University of
Pennsylvania’s Veterinary School, who
says: .

“If a person wants a dog at all, he ought»
to be Willing to take what goes with it. .
When it gets to a point Where dogs have .
to be debarked, they’re no longer dogs. Af— -

ter all a dog’s bark is about the best burglar
alarm you could have around. your home.
If a dog has been properly trained, and is
discriminating, his bark means something.
I can’t understand why people would want

to deprive their pets of that natural func- .

tion.”

Cock-fighting in Puerto Rico

We have before us as we write a letter

written by a Puerto Rico school boy describe *

ing a cock—ﬁght which he witnessed, which
we do not reproduce because the treatment
given one of the cocks after the ﬁght is
rather too horrible to give our readers. The
boy concludes by wondering why they do
not have in the island a law prohibiting
these brutal things. But they do have such
a law, enacted in 1911. We are calling the
attention of the authorities to that statute.
A few humane people in Puerto Rico have
been struggling hard to bring about a bet—
ter day for the animals of the island.

Nothing more rapidly reﬁnes, uplifts,
exalts both mind and heart, than generous,
gracious, unselﬁsh ministrations to others,
whether our own fellow men! or the crea-
tures below us.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

Feb. 1937
Wild Doves

JUDY VAN DER VEER

Ah, the wild doves!
I hardly had known
They were here at all,
So quickly it seems
They have flown.

The frightened wind
Beat in their wings;

I heard low voices
And they were gone,
Sweet startled things!

All spring I heard them,
And spring went soon:
Sadly they spoke

All the brown summer
Of summer’s noon.

And summer went quickly

To sound of their calling.

Now hunters have come; ‘
Brokenly, pitifully,

Wild doves are falling.

Ah the wild doves,

Where do they hide?

I would hold out my hands,
And call them to come,
Stay by my side.

They have gone with the spring,
They have taken the days

Of summer in flight;

And no bringing back

One day or one night.

Froude writes, “History is a voice for—
ever sounding across the centuries the law
of Right and Wrong. Opinions alter, man—
ners change, creeds rise and fall, but the
moral law is written on tables of Eternity.
Justice and Truth alone endure.”

Our readers are urged to clip from “Our
Dumb Animals” various articles and request
their local editors to republish. Copies so
mutilated will be made good by us upon
application.

 

HANDSOME YOUNG CROWS.
ARE THE FIRST BIRDS OF SPRING

IN SOME PLACES THEY

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Page 27

The First Birds of Spring

ALVIN M. PETERSON
Photographs by the Author

HAT is the ﬁrst bird to return to
W its summer haunts after having

spent the worst part of the winter
elsewhere, where it is not so cold and where
food of the kind it likes and requires is
more plentiful? The answer to this ques—
tion varies, because the ﬁrst migrating bird
to be seen depends upon where you live.

In some places the honor of being the
ﬁrst bird to return in the spring goes to
the American crow. Crows are to be seen
every month in the year in some places,
since in ‘winter they gather in large ﬂocks
and roost in the same woodland. The birds
ﬂy out over the surrounding country dur—
ing the day and feed on a variety of food,
almost anything in the line of grain, in-
sects, mice and other things they can ﬁnd.
If you live near the winter feeding or
roosting grounds of a ﬂock, they are likely
to be the ﬁrst birds to return to your
neighborhood after wintering elsewhere.

Although the. crow has a bad reputation
and is killed by many people, it is not bad
all the way through. To be sure, it takes
some grain, molests live stock, spreads the
seeds of some noxious plants and some—
times kills birds and poultry. On the other
hand, it spreads the seeds of useful plants,
kills insects and rodents, eats carrion and
otherwise is of service to us. Crows are
to be found, a few here and a few there,
much of the year, and then do little harm.
Consequently, they should not be killed at
all times, rather they should be left alone
unless actually found doing serious damage.

Another bird you are likely to see in Feb-
ruary is the horned lark. It is generally to
be seen about ﬁeldS/and meadows, where it
flits from one bare spot of ground to an-
other and gleans a living of weed seeds. It
always seems happy and contented and its
pleasant, twittering, “chip-a-chee-chee” song
is often to be heard.

The next birds you are likely to see are
the bluebird and robin, which migrate about

the same time and are the ﬁrst birds most
folks notice in the spring. They return as
early as February, if the weather permits,
though ordinarily they do not move north-
ward until the second week in March.

Six other birds are due about the time
the bluebird and robin return; the song
sparrow, killdeer, red-winged blackbird,
rusty blackbird, grackle and meadowlark.
Indeed, the day the robin and bluebird ar-
rive you may hear and see the song spar—
row, provided you take a walk to the shores
of a stream or pond. This musical little
bird has several sweet songs in its reper-
toire.

The killdeer is very common and an early
spring migrant, sometimes arriving a day
or two earlier than the bluebird and robin.
When it does get back you are sure to
know all about it, for it has a shrill voice
and cries out loudly, “Kill—dee, kill-dee.”
This bird is to be seen about ﬁelds, gardens
and the shores of streams, where the ground
is free from weeds and grass, and it loves
to run over newly ploughed ground.

The grackles, red-winged and rusty black—
birds, usually arrive next. Many grackles,
or crow blackbirds, are to be seen along the
shores of streams and ponds, creaking in
harsh tones, though others are to be seen in
trees along streets, or walking sedately over
lawns looking for food. Red-winged black-
birds, which may be known by their gay
red and yellow epaulets, are also to be seen
about streams, ponds and marshes. The
song of this bird is one of the most pleasant
of all spring sounds, a loud, clear, ringing
“chonk—er—ee” to be heard a long distance.
Rusty blackbirds are about as large as the
red—wing. The males are dressed in black
and the females gray. They nest, as a rule,
north of the United States, so we see them
during the migrations mainly. Mixed ﬂocks
of red—wings, grackles and rusty blackbirds
are often to be seen far from streams, and
the birds often perch in trees and sing long

 

YOUNG BRONZED GRACKLES ARE EARLY SPRING
BUT LATE FALL MIGRANTS

 

 

 

 




 

<- wu-ﬂv’

“M954 -

2 -.- .msn-xfa as: I'm“ 9%

W

Nov. 1937
Veal

MAY ALLREAD BAKER

Six short weeks ago the two calves were
dropped,
One white as snow, and the other brown.
And I hoped to keep them, but Dad said
(‘N0.’,
Today they were loaded and sent to town.

For six weeks they’d ramped in the cattle
shed,
And nursed their dams in the chilly morn;
And again of evenings, and then, full fed,
They slept through the night in the straw
so warm.

Shy, pretty creatures, with great, dark eyes.
Timid, at ﬁrst, and with many a halt,
At length they came, and with glad surprise
They licked my hand for a taste of salt.

Dear baby calves! And now on their way
To the slaughter-pens. How their dams
will low!
And tears are misting my eyes today
For “Little Brownie,” and “Little Snow.”

Tar Pits of LaBrea

CARLETON A. SCHEINERT

QJUIRRELS, cats, dogs, and other small
Sanimals today become mired in the
tar pits of “La Brea” just as did the sloths,
the mammoths and the saber-toothed tiger
of prehistoric time. More helpless, less able
to escape than if they were caught in a
whirlpool or mired in quicksand, they are
sucked down slowly into the black mess. At
times one can see a little body flat on its
side, dead but not yet drawn below the sur-
face, and one must wonder if starvation or
fear brought its struggles to an end before
the smothering tar got in its work.

Once these pits were famed for the
skeletons of prehistoric animals dug out of
them, but today La Brea is an almost for-
gotten park, really a. part of Los Angeles.
Going out Wilshire Boulevard toward Bev-
erly Hills, to the north is the park, main-
tained by the local Museum of Natural
History. It comprises twenty acres of
green, the dark spots that are the tar or
pitch (Brea being Spanish for pitch), being
now walled in by ﬂat stones. It is said that
more than 3,000,000 bones have been dug
from these pits since 1900, some having
been mounted as skeletons and placed in the
Museum.

Water covers the tar during the rainy
season, dust and sand disguise the pits in
summer. Walls save the humans, but the
little animals will stray upon the surface
and are caught, when a wire netting would
save them. Will their bones, too, be mounted
in museums for the ediﬁcation of future
generations?

Darius Hystaspes, 521 B. C., became ruler
of Persia because his horse neighed. Seven
young Persians of noble birth, who killed
the usurper, Smerdis, agreed to ride to-
gether at dawn and to make king that one
of them whose war steed should neigh ﬁrst.
Darius’ horse neighed ﬁrst and, at once,
his six companions dismounted and saluted
him as their monarch.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Page 1’71

Humane Education Stressed at Convention

Meeting of American Humane Association Attracts Prominent Humanitarians
to Milwaukee

II II UMANE Education had its day at the
recent convention of the American Hu-
mane Association, held at Hotel Pfis-

ter, Milwaukee, early in October. An entire
evening was given up to this subject, with
inspiring addresses by Mrs. Lillian Ellis,
county superintendent of schools, Dodge-
ville, Wisconsin, and Miss Efﬁe E. Smith,
principal of the Frank McCoppin School,
San Francisco. These two prominent teach-
ers told of their very practical methods and
the good results obtained. At a previous
session Mrs. W. F. Krahl, chairman of hu-
mane education for the Illinois Congress of
Parents and Teachers, Chicago, presented
a paper dealing effectively with the danger
of toy guns in the hands of youth. At. the
annual banquet Rev. Preston Bradley, pas-
tor of the People’s Church, Chicago, gave
an eloquent address entitled, “Conservation
of Wild Life,” which touched upon the
wider phases of the whole subject of the
protection of animals.

More speciﬁc topics offered at the animal
sessions of what proved to be a most har-
monious and helpful meeting were: “The
Function of the Animal Clinic and Hos-
pital,” in which President Francis H.
Rowley of the Massachusetts S. P. C. A.
gave a brief history of the rise and develop-
ment of the hospitalization of animals, with
very practical suggestions for the conduct
of such institutions by both large and small
societies; “The Red Star in Action,” by
Eric H. Hansen, general manager of the
American Humane Association, who told a
thrilling story of the rescue of animals from
the ﬂoods in the Mississippi valley last
winter, strikingly illustrated by moving
pictures; “Transport of Livestock,” by
Earle G. Reed, chairman of the National
Livestock Loss Prevention Board, Omaha,;
“Proper Shipment of Animals in Contain—
ers,” by G. M. Dallas, superintendent, Loss
and Damage, American Express Company,
New York City, who cited the proper con-
tainers for animals of various sizes and
habits; “Unusual Wild Life Problems of the
S. P. C. A.,” by W. E. Sanderson, director,
Wild Life department, American Humane
Association; and “The Trouble Shooter of
the S. P. C. A.,” by Wm. Ryan, agent of
the American S. P. C. A., New York, who
illustrated this theme by lantern slides

showing methods of catching stray animals.

Other subjects considered were: “What
about the Predators?” by Larry Hautz,
secretary, Izaak Walton League, Milwau-
kee; and “Public Small Animal Contracts
with Humane Society Methods,” by H. L.
Lefﬁngwell, superintendent, Animal Protec-
tive League, Cleveland, Ohio. At the A. B.
C. session, directed by Mrs. Charles M.
Kindel, J r., president, Kent County Humane
Society, Grand Rapids, Michigan, a variety
of helpful topics, suggested from the ques—
tion box or from the ﬂoor, were freely dis—
cussed. Resolutions were passed opposing
the sale of toy guns and asking a curb on
the use of the electric prod. The new series
of humane education readers, edited by
Miss Frances E. Clarke and reviewed in
this issue of Our Dumb Animals, were
heartily endorsed, as was the Amrita Island
Conference, held annually under the aus-
pices of the Animal Rescue League of
Boston.

The delegates were treated to an after-
noon’s sight-seeing trip of the city of Mil—
waukee, during which the local animal
shelter and pound was visited. A feature
not on the program was the morning decor-
ation with a wreath of the unique statue of
Henry Bergh which stands in one of the
city’s most prominent squares. A three-
horse hitch and a group of children with
their pets added to the picturesqueness of
the scene.

All who attended this convention came
away with delightful memories of the social
contacts, the attractions of the city, and the
hospitality of the Wisconsin Humane So-
ciety and its efﬁcient superintendent, Mr.
Walter J. Dethloff.

A pigeon saved the lives of 15 seamen
aboard a German steamer that foundered
north of Denmark in a severe gale. It was
released with a message tied under its
wings. Some hours later a farmer near
the coast found the bird and summoned
rescue squads.

In 936 A. D., a prince named Hywel Dha,
passed a law to protect the cats in South
Wales. This is the ﬁrst record of domestic
cats in the British Isles.

 

“JUDY,” A FULL—BLOODED JERSEY

 

 

 




 

 

 

01. AN

 

u U. s,Trade Mark, Registered L

oELL m 1868. AND FOR FoRry.

The Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

The American Humane Education Society

The American Band of Mercy

I would not enter on my list of friends,

Though graced with polished manners and, ﬁne sense,

Yet wanting sensibility, the man
Who needlessly sets foot upon a worm.
—COWPER

£357.,

GOD

D
PEACE on EARTH,

AND Mencv To“
EVERY lema
CREATURE.

 

Published monthly by the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood, Massachusetts

Entered as second-class matter, June 29, 1917, at the Post Ofﬁce at Norwood, Mass., under the Act of March 3, 1879
Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 3, 1917, authorized, July 13, 1919

Boston Ofﬁce, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

 

Vol. 70

July, 1937

No. 7

 

Our leaﬂets, “Road Accidents to Dogs,”
are for free distribution to any dog lover
who would do his or her part toward re-
ducing the number of unfortunate dogs
daily injured or killed upon our highways.
A postal card will bring you the leaﬂets.

The International Journal for Animal
Protection, the splendid periodical published
by the Edinburgh S.P.C.A., writes us that
calls for back numbers are frequently being
received. Unfortunately, all of the No. 1
and 2 issues are exhausted, but copies of the
N o. 3 are still available.

Copies of the editorial, “The Great
Cruelty Again,” in the June issue of this
magazine can be had now in leaﬂet form
for free distribution. If you would help to
arouse public opinion against the needless
sufferings of the more than 100,000,000 of
our food animals in the slaughter-houses of
the country, send for copies to be distribu-
ted. If a member of any humane society,
please indicate this upon the postal card
asking for leaﬂets.

J. Seneca Jones, secretary of the Minne-
sota Farm Bureau, says there are 200,000
farms in the state of Minnesota and nearly
all of them have cats as household pets or
as protectors of grain and crops against
rats, mice and other rodents. The cat is
regarded by many farmers as a conserva-
tionist.

DeSpite the fact that the U. S. Depart-
ment of Agriculture has studied the habits
of crows for years and has found their
food habits just as beneﬁcial as they were
injurious, and that other states have long
ago given up the bounty on crows, we have
the spectacle of Indiana conducting its
fourth annual “Crow Control Contest,”
with several hundred dollars offered in
awards to clubs killing the most crows in
a ﬁve-month period. Some day Indiana may
learn to her sorrow that there is another
side to the crow question.

The American Animal
Hospital Association

HE American Animal Hospital Asso—

ciation had its fourth and most suc-
cessful annual meeting at the Book-Cad-
illac Hotel in Detroit on May 6, 7, and 8th.
Formed in 1933 by a small group of veteri-
narians who specialize in hospitalization and
treatment of dogs and cats this organization
has an enviable record of accomplishments
that beneﬁt the dog both in sickness and in
health.

The Association has set up standards for
hospitals that Wish to join that enforce a
most rigid program, including physical
equipment of the hospital, sanitation, man-
agement and the character and ability of the
veterinarian who operates it.

No small part of the work of this group
has been the setting up of a plan for the
testing and approval or disapproval of pre-
pared dog foods. Veterinarians have known
for the past decade that the ever present
desire for proﬁt has brought more than two
hundred brands of dog food onto the store
shelves and that many of them are totally
unﬁt for consumption even by the most
hardy dog. It is well known that advertis-
ing claims over the radio, in newspapers and
in magazines and on the dog food containers
have been exaggerated, misleading or false,
and that many dogs have been made vio-
lently ill and many others chronically ill by
persistent feeding of some of these so—called
complete dog foods.

The Association is organized and is now
receiving support from the American Vet-
erinary Medical Association for a plan for
the testing of these foods by three well«
known teachers and nutrition experts of this
country. They are Doctors Agnes Fay Mor-
gan of the University of California, G. R.
Cowgill of Yale University School of Medi-
cine, and R. W. Russell of Rutgers Uni-
versity. The dog foods submitted for test—
ing will be subjected to chemical and bio-
logical tests to see if they are palatable,
digestible and nutritious and to see if they

contain Vitamins and minerals necessary to
the continuance of life and to the reproduc-
tion of life. Out of 215 manufacturers who
were solicited by the organization, 40 re-
plied and one can readily imagine that those
who did not reply have a product they know
is not ﬁt for canine or feline consumption.

Another point of interest in connection
with the Detroit meeting was a paper de-
livered by Dr. L. A. Merrilat of Chicago on
“The Humane Aspect of Veterinary Prac-
tice.”

A veterinarian from the Mayo Clinic in
Rochester gave an excellent description of
nervous diseases in the dog, based on many
cases of dogs with disturbed mentality
which were sent to the clinic for diagnosis
and treatment.

The Angell Memorial Hospital of the
Massachusetts S. P. C. A. in Boston was
represented by Dr. Gerry B. Schnelle, who
lectured on X-ray technic and diagnosis.

England’ 5 Poet Laureate’s
Love for Animals

John Maseﬁeld is more than England’s
Poet Laureate, he is the Poet Laureate of
Humanity. Yes, and more, of that vast
world of animal life below man. His sym-
pathies are as wide as life itself. A writer
in The Animal’s Friend quotes the follow-
ing from one who writes about Maseﬁeld:

“There he is with his hands full of crumbs,
and all the birds for miles around are
ﬂying and hopping nearer and nearer to
him; now a hop forward, now a swift re-
treat, but always in the end clustering close
about him. Here is a poet of whom another
of the craft must have been thinking when
he told how the poet went out into the ﬁelds
to sing his songs, and, as he sang, all the
birds stopped their songs to listen, and,
listening, whispered to one another, Il est
de la maison. He is; for there never has
been an English poet who loved more pas-
sionately or more tenderly bird and beast,
and ﬂower and tree.”

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

Aug. 1937

Letter to Boy Scouts

VHSHE following letter has been written
and sent out to Boy Scouts by Miss
Mary C. Yarrow, an ardent humane worker.

Dear Boy Scouts:

It gave me a great deal of pleasure to
learn that you have a law for kindness to
animals and I am writing to‘ bring to your
attention the many kinds of cruelty con-
nected with the capture, transportation,
caging and training of animals, thinking
that you may wish to take some stand in
these matters.

The famous Jack London said: “Never
have I been so appalled and shocked by the
world’s cruelty as I have been appalled and
shocked in the midst of happy, laughing and
applauding audiences when trained-animal
turns were being performed on the stage.
Cruelty as a ﬁne art has attained its per-
fect ﬂower in the trained-animal world. No
normal, healthy human would tolerate such
performances did he or she know the ter-
rible cruelty that lies behind them and
makes them possible.”

Mr. London suggested a sure, effective
way to crush this cruelty out of existence.
He asked that every man, woman and child
leave their seats in theaters and places of
amusement whenever an animal act is pre-
sented, showing the management by such
action that trained animal turns are un-
popular. Soon theaters will cease booking
such acts.

Following out Mr. London’s suggestion, I
have had a sticker made for use on letters,
packages, etc., and would be pleased to send
you some if you wish to have them. The
sticker reads as follows:—

Help to Stop Trained Animal Acts
Refuse to See Them!

Leave when they are staged, and give
your reasons at the Box Ofﬁce.

Inform yourself as to the many kinds of
suffering and torture inﬂicted upon trained
animals. Help to end this cruel mercenary
business.

“Blessed are the Merciful”

Boys and girls are unknowingly helping
very largely to keep up this kind of cruelty
by attending such shows and helping to sup-
port them ﬁnancially, especially the circus.

Some time ago, six lions, all crowded into
one cage and the property of a circus, were
sidetracked on a railroad and left without
water or food, in intensely hot weather.
Suffering and frenzied by the heat, they
attacked one another, and when found, three
were dead, and the other three so severely
injured that they were expected to die.

During the ﬁerce heat of that same sum-
mer, a sick caged tigress made desperate
attempts to end her wretched life by biting
off portions of her body.

Occurrences of this kind throw the search—
light upon the dumb agony of imprisoned,
wild creatures, maddened by cruelty, whose
lives are worse than any nightmare which
could be pictured; but for the most part,
the curtains are kept closely drawn and no
one sees what tak s place back of them.

Boy Scouts, your responsibility in this
matter is great, as pleasing the young is
made an excuse for much of the torture
and terrible suffering of trained animals.

What are you going to do about it?

MARY C. YARROW

Stephen Girard Hotel, Philadelphia, Pa.

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Little Millenniums

CHRIS SEWELL

PPARENTLY the most zealous natu-

ralist is unable to account for the
strange friendships which sometimes spring
up between creatures who are by nature
antipathetic.

A “cat and dog life,” for example, does
not necessarily imply violent antipathy. It
can stand for peace, harmony, and even a
touching affection, especially if the animals
have been brought up together.

But why, when I was walking around my
English garden one day, did a woodpecker
(most wild and untameable of birds) sud—
denly ﬂy at me, take bread from my hand,
and (an amazing departure this!) attach
itself to our home for an entire summer; so
that it was no uncommon spectacle to see
the master of the house tranquilly reading
his newspaper with this self-invited guest
sitting on his foot?

Grant Watson has before now watched
rabbits frolicking with a fox, apparently
enjoying some incomprehensible armistice to
which the wit of man has no cue. He has
also placed on record a few rare instances
of foxhounds chumming up to their heredi—
tary foe. When this has happened, how-
ever, though the hounds will chase Reynard
as usual, they will never kill him.

There are, the same writer afﬁrms, two
instances of otters reared with otter hounds
—0ne otter actually taking part in the
hunts—none of which, in either case, ever
ended in a kill.

A cat has been known to choose a dor-
mouse as its particular pal, and there is an
account by Hudson of a cat and a rabbit
whose mutual admiration went so far that
they copied each other’s dietetic habits.
Pussy would painstakingly gnaw a cabbage
stalk (how she must have hated it!) whilst
the rabbit, with a highly unsuitable equip-
ment of dentures, attempted to tear meat
from his friend’s bone. ,

Lambs who consort happily with dogs are
not so very uncommon, whilst hens disposed
to pair off with horses and to enjoy a silent
and inexplicable communion with them are
almost commonplaces.

 

Page 123

The persistent declaration that Hindu
babies have from time to time been stolen
by wolves, and brought up by them in the
jungle, is open to doubt. Nevertheless,
curious specimens of human childhood with
the manners and “speech” of animals, and
no notion of human behavior, have un-
doubtedly been discovered.

In the life of that Eastern Christian saint,
the Sadhu Sundar Singh, occurs an account
of how, as he sat meditating one night, a
panther dashed at him, but instead of doing
him harm, dropped at his side, appearing to
join in the meditations. "

What theories can one advance for these
little millenniums?

Presumably none. They must just be
taken as a touching foretaste of the day of
the Lord when. “They shall not hurt nor
destroy in all My Holy Mountain.”

The Sea Gull

The woods are full of merry minstrelsy;
Glad are the hedges with the notes of
spring;
But o’er the sad and uncompanioned sea
No love-lorn voices ring.

Gray mariner of every ocean clinie,
If I could wander on as sure a wing,
Or beat with yellow web thy pathless sea,
I, too, might cease to sing.

W'ould I could share thy silver—flashing
swoop.
Thy steady poise above the bounding deep,
0r buoyant float with thine instinctive
trust,
Rocked in a dreamless sleep!
S. WEIR MITCHELL

Pupils in the Washington Primary school,
Greensboro, N. C., who are members of the
Sarah J. Eddy Kindness to Animals Clubs,
contributed brief articles to the humane
edition of the “Washington Street Primary
News,” in May. Mrs. M. L. Scarlette, the
principal, is to be congratulated upon such
a ﬁne showing from pupils of the ﬁrst four
grades. This project is a conspicuous ex-
ample of how humane education may be
effectively worked into the school program.

 

MADE MOTHERLESS BY A SPEEDING MOTORIST, THESE FOUR

THREE-WEEKS-OLD SKUNKS ARE BEING CARED FOR BY THE CAT

PICTURED ABOVE. THE CAT’S ONLY KITTEN GAZES AT ITS MOTH-

ER WITH A QUIZZICAL EXPRESSION AND WONDERS WHY THERE
IS NOT ROOM FOR HIM

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 148
The Better Way

GLENN W. ORTON

I can see the diamond glitter of the snow
upon the trees,
In the balsam thickets where the big
bucks hide,
I can smell the fragrant needles and my
very soul’s at ease,
Every care that I have had is laid aside.

Comes a snort from near a windfall—and a
big one leaps away;
What a sight! with white flag up and
head held high;
But I have not ﬁred a rifle, it would spoil
a perfect day
And would bring a bitter mist before
my eye. '

Long ago I hung my gun upon its worn old
hick’ry pegs, ,
I am hunting deer—but with a pictured
shot
And I smile to see the spiked horns and the
graceful little legs
As they grace with beauty some familiar
spot.

No glazed eyes here to accuse me when my
steps are growing slow,
Not a thought to mar a sportsman’s per-
fect rest;
You may hunt your deer the same way as
you did in long ago,
But I still insist that my way is the best.

\

The Dogs of Sark

ALFRED S. CAMPBELL

N the tiny island of Sark, situated in the

English Channel, there is a law that no
one may own a female dog except the Seig-
neur of the island. This curious custom goes
back hundreds of years to the time when
a child of a Seigneur was bitten. by a fe-
male dog whose puppies she was teasing,
and has been strictly enforced ever since.

The present Seigneur, Mr. R. W. Hatha-
way, formerly an American from New J er-
sey, is a great lover of dogs. With his
wife, La Dame, he rules over Sark as benev—
olent despot, collecting from the islanders
tithes and taxes of live chickens, making
laws for the island and recognizing King
George VI only as Duke of Normandy.

Mr. Hathaway’s dog, a white poodle, loves
to go through his tricks, but more than
anything else likes to accompany his mas-
ter on long rambles over the gorse-covered
cliffs or to go with his mistress on her
daily inspection of her ﬁne herd of Guern-
sey cows.

Sark is a peaceful place. There are many
dogs there, of many varieties. The inhabi—
tants live at peace with the world, as good
neighbors, and in the whole island dog-
ﬁghts are unknown.

Do not allow your dog to chase and to
kill cats or smaller dogs. This habit gets
the dog and his owner into trouble, and
often causes serious sorrow and trouble to
the person owning the cat or the dog that
has been chased and injured by your
thoughtlessness.

OUR DUMB

ANIMALS

Oct. 1937

The Desert Ship

BURT HAUSE

Africa and Arabia, man’s best friends

are his canteen and his camel.
The camel is among the largest of ru-
minants. His color is generally light brown
or nearly black. In stature, he is no pygmy,

@UT on the sun-scorched deserts of

they became peeved at a fellow player, they
would probably vent their wrath by sud-
denly biting or spitting in his face. And
their aim is true for they score a bull’s
eye most every time.

Camels are used by desert tribes as rid-

 

SHIPS OF THE DESERT

standing about eight feet high at the shoul—
ders while his long limbs give him speed even
though he isn’t streamlined. He can travel
over a distance of ﬁfty miles in a day,
with his load, at the rate of ten miles an
hour, and keep it up incessantly for a period
of four days. Mr. Camel is famous for these
non—stop journeys due to his ability in tra-
versing them without refueling. In a land
almost devoid of water and vegetation, he
carries his food and water with him. The
inside walls of his paunch contain little
reservoirs like miniature canteens. When
he grows thirsty, these receptacles open
automatically and give him drink. Then,
automatically, they close back up again.
The hump on his back supplies food in the
form of reserved fat. This accumulates
during the time previous to his starting on
a long journey. An experienced camel driv-
er sees to it that his charge is given sulﬁ-
cient food to insure a well—ﬁlled hump.

Mr. Camel has a personality all his own
which isn’t very pleasing, as he habitually
wears that expression of being bored at the
world. Neither would he capture any prizes
at a beauty contest; his only beauty being
his long eyelashes. But these eyelashes
are indispensable, inasmuch as they protect
his eyes against dust and sand glare. Dust
storms cause him_ no worry. He merely
closes his nostrils, pulls his upper lip down
over his lower one and lets the sand ﬂy.
Luckily, his feet are well padded which
enables him to walk over the desert sand
without sinking down. When these pads
become worn, they can be half—soled by sew-
ing a piece of leather over either hoof.
Camels would suffer no injury on the grid-
iron ﬁeld, either, (if they played football),
as they are further protected by additional
pads on knees and breast just like real
football players in their suits. However, if

ing mounts and beasts of burden, often
carrying loads of ﬁve hundred to six hun-
dred pounds on their backs. During the
loading process the animal kneels, but if his
master overloads him, he refuses to rise.
Arabs milk the female camels and churn
the milk into a sort of butter by justling
it in leather or skin bags. Camel hair
makes excellent paint brushes and it can
also be woven into cloth.

These doleful appearing animals can live
for several months in a waterless valley,
if former rains have left a growth of green
bushes, and emerge sleek and fat. To them,
a few leaves and thorn bushes provide a
bountiful repast. A white camel should con—
sider himself important as white ones are
rare and very highly prized.

 

HE Jack London Club, named for

the late author, is composed of
members who pay no dues but simply
pledge themselves to leave a theater
or any place where trained animals
are compelled to perform unnatural
acts. It is hoped all members before
purchasing tickets where performing
animals are ever exhibited, will ask if
any such features are on the pro-
gram, refusing to purchase tickets if
the answer is in the afﬁrmative. When
leaving any place because of any ani-
mal performance, always let the man—
agement know why you are leaving or
going out during that part of the per-
formance, or write a letter to the
management after returning to your
home. Send your name for enrolment
to Our Dumb Animals.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

Page 172

The Laughter of the Ducks

MURIEL SWORDER

Ha ha,
Ha ha,
Ha ha ha!
Hear the laughter of the ducks!
Shower of laughter, shower of rain
Beating on my window pane.

Sleek, white throats expressing pleasure,
Raindrops dancing without measure,
Here’s the sun shining through

A pale sky of flaxen blue.

Lightly step I to my door,

But the duoks?—they laugh no more.

Birds Are Heavy Eaters

L. E. EUBANKS

HE saying that a person who eats but
little has “an appetite like a bird” im-
plies that our feathered friends are light
feeders. But, in proportion to bodily weight,
birds consume a surprising volume of food.

Like people, birds keep themselves warm
and comfortable with heat that is released
from food burned in the cells of their
bodies. The exceptional requirement in
amount of food (for bodily weight) is ex-
plained by the birds’ high body—tempera-
ture—from two to fourteen degrees Fahren-
heit higher than ours, according to John
H. J ollief.

When the
little bodies
tissue. This

food supply is plentiful the
store up a reserve in fatty
is used when the ground is
covered with snow and ice, cutting off the
food supply. If the amount of food burned
is greater than the amount eaten, in a very
short time the small reserve is gone and
the birds approach starvation. Birds fol-
low the same plan that we do in trying to
conserve body heat; they seek shelter from
cold, winds and severe storms.

We should think of these facts, especially
when the ground is covered with sleet or
ice, as it often is in the late winter and
early spring. Feed the birds, particularly
at this time, and help them to pull through.
Cracked corn, wheat, haymow chaff, sun-
ﬂower seed, oats, nuts, fruit, bread, suet,
and raisins are all good for birds.

 

WHOOPING SWAN AND MATE
ON NEST

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

The Australian Magpie

EWEN K. PATTERSON

ANKED as one of the master feath-

ered minstrels of the world, the Aus-
tralian magpie well deserves its reputation
of being one of the ﬁnest songbirds in exist-
ence. It is impossible to give a written
description of this bird’s beautiful modu-
lated notes; but a ﬁne tribute was paid to

 

AUSTRALIAN MAGPIE—MASTER
MINSTREL

the bird by a world-famous naturalist who
wrote that the “glorious liquid notes of the
Australian magpie’s full-throated ﬂute-like
song are ﬁtting paeans of adoration to an
inﬁnite and creative majesty. The song
pours and ﬂoats and balances in the mist
of daybreak. It is the acme of superb sweet-
ness of tone, and it is brimful of color. It
is a wine of sound.”

The glorious, care-free carol of the mag-
pie gives unbounded pleasure to every one
who hears it. It is the voice of the Aus-
tralian bush—a sweet song which cheers
lonely folks residing in uncivilized regions.

But rarely does the magpie sing alone.
Usually the birds sing in pairs and give a
delightful duet; but they are at their best
when half a dozen or so are chorusing to—
gether about sunrise.

Unlike most other birds, which grow
silent as night falls, the magpie frequently
sings at night, especially when it is moon—
light, and it is a wonderful experience to
hear the birds caroling in the dead of the
night. i

The Australian magpie is a very friendly
bird, and is quick to churn with workers and
travelers in the bush, although during the
nesting season it becomes very hostile and
will attack any human being who goes near
the site of its nest. The bird is a valuable
friend of farmers, taking heavy toll of in-
sect and rodent pests, and because of this
it is closely protected by law.

It is also one of the most intelligent birds
in the Australian bush, and a unique inci-
dent, providing striking proof of its intelli-
gence, recently occurred on a country golf
course in the State of Queensland.

A magpie had its nest in a tree close by
one of the greens on the golf course, and
for several days it was noticed that when-
ever any golf players commenced putting
on the green the magpie would ﬂy down to
a stump a few yards from the green and
watch the players closely.

After watching the players for about a
week, the bird decided one morning to do
a little playing itself.

Nov. 1937

A ball was driven on to the green, and as
soon as it came to rest the magpie ﬂew
down, and, using its beak as a putter, it be-
gan to push the ball towards the hole.

The bird had taken the ball a distance
of more than three feet, and had it within
eighteen inches of the hole, when it was
disturbed by the approach of a caddy and
ﬂew away.

Facts About Wild Geese

L. D. CHAPMAN

ERY few persons, who see the wild

geese winging their way regularly
across the continent every spring and fall,
have a very clear idea of how they really
live in their natural environment.

With its dark gray body, black neck and
white patch under its jaw, the wild goose is
a picturesque character along the shore of
any woodland lake or river.

The Wild goose is a true weather prophet,
and it is very seldom that it makes a mis-
take and is caught in a snow storm of any
consequence. When the frosty nights of
early fall appear on its northern range,
the geese gather in bands of from thirty
to a hundred or more and, led by an old
gander, line up in a V-shaped formation to
begin their annual migration.

During the ﬂight, the geese stop from
time to time to feed, but always when the
ﬂight is resumed, the old gander is in the
lead, with the lesser geese strung out in the
characteristic formation. Occasionally the
birds in the two lines change places but the
lead gander never gives up his position un-
less he is killed or wounded. If the leader
is killed, the Whole ﬂock is thrown into a
turmoil, often losing their bearings entirely
and ﬂying aimlessly around for several days,
before another leader takes his place and
once more leads the ﬂock on its migratory
course.

Wild geese nest in our most northerly
states and Canada, and winter in our warm
southern states. As the snow disappears
from their northern nesting grounds, the
migratory instinct warns them that it is
time for them to commence their ﬂight
north and they travel in the picturesque
V-shaped manner, with an old gander al-
ways leading the way.

The ﬂight to the northward is usually the
most leisurely, as the birds are thin and
make their way slowly as the spring opens
up.

When protecting their young or nests,
wild geese are exceedingly vicious and can
inﬂict a very painful blow with their wings,
but at other times they will take immediate
ﬂight at the ﬁrst approach of man. The diet
of wild geese is a varied one, comprising
various grains and ﬁsh as well as all sorts
of vegetation. .

They are among the cleanest of all birds,
and one curious characteristic that has been
noted and much commented on is that in
their wild state, as well as in the domesti-
cated, all grass roots that are pulled up
are carefully washed before being eaten.
In that respect, more than any other, geese
differ greatly from all other wild fowl.

The woodpecker rapping on one side of
a tree flies often to the other side to see if
he has driven out any insects.

 

 

 




 

.Ian. 1937

ONTRARY to the

somewhat general

impression regard-
ing the alleged ﬁerceness
of Arctic sledge—dogs,
these hardy animals,
when properly fed and
kindly cared for, are
both gentle and affection-
ate. They are fine, noble
creatures, and they serve
their masters willingly
and faithfully even unto
death. Their lives are
comparatively brief for
few of them survive to
work more than six or
seven years.

The Alaskan and Yu-
kon dog teams when not
in use are kept conﬁned,
for if allowed to roam
the open country in packs
or even singly they soon
might drive away the
moose, caribou and all
other game, and on this game the white man
and Indian depend for their meat and fur.
For weeks and even months, during both
winter and summer, most of these dogs are
tied to stakes or trees out in the open. In a
very few instances some of the dogs are pro-
vided with individual small log cabins or
shacks, and this seems reasonably humane,
but most of the animals endure the summer
heat and winter cold without any shelter
whatsoever. It is not surprising that under
such conditions dogs at times become high—
strung and irritable. In, several villages,
however, I saw individual sledge—dogs going
freely about and very friendly, and these

SLEDGE DOG OF THE CANADIAN
ROYAL MOUNTED POLICE OF
YUKON TERRITORY

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

The Alaskan and Yukon Sledge Dogs

PERCIVAL P. BAXTER, formerCovernor ofMaine

 

THOROUGHBRED SIBERIAN

evidently had been taught to stay at home
and consequently were enjoying complete
freedom.

On my recent visit to the far North I
frequently walked calmly up to these rug—
ged creatures as they pulled at their chains
and talked quietly to them while many of
them voluntarily gave me a good “paw—
shake.” When they see a friendly man ap—
proaching, even though he be a stranger,
they jump and tug at their chains, wagging
their tails and barking furiously. This, of
course, may frighten some people, but not
those who understand canine character and
canine sign language. I also made the ac—
quaintance of many puppies along the Yu-
kon River and they were the softest, fat-
test, roly-poly dog babies I ever saw.

The ﬁnest dog teams were those of the
Superintendent of Mt. McKinley National
Park in Alaska and of the Royal Canadian
Mounted Police in the Yukon territory.
These dogs were great tawny creatures,
some striped with black and gray showing
strains of their wolf ancestry, the largest
weighing as much as 120 pounds. The Si—
berians were somewhat smaller with pure
white coats and well—modeled features. The
Mt. McKinley Park dogs were the only ones
that I saw that were not chained, for each
lived in his own small wire-enclosed yard
that had a little log cabin in the rear with
a wooden platform as a ﬂoor for the dog
to lie on. Certainly these huskies were
highly favored and showed their apprecia—
tion for their privileges.

The Arctic dogs are indiscriminately
called huskies, malemutes and Siberians,
but they are much mixed in breed and col—
or. As I understand it, the huskies were
the original breed of the North, perhaps
descended from the wolf and coyote of ages
ago, while the malemutes are of mixed an—
cestry, the offspring of the huskies and
domestic dogs that were bred together. One
often sees the distinct characteristics of the
Belgian, shepherds or so-called police dogs

 

Hm5

cropping out in these ani-
mals and occasionally the
strains of the mastiff
and St. Bernard are no—
ticeable. The Siberians
seem to have the purest
ancestry, and as I have
said, are distinguished
because of their white
coats, smaller size and
sharper features. All of
these breeds are faithful
servants of man.

The sledge teams aver—
age from seven to nine in
a team. They are har-
nessed two abreast, with
the most intelligent and
experienced dog as the
1 e a d e r. Occasionally,
however, if the trail is
heavy, a team may have
as many as ﬁfteen or
sixteen d o g s. When
there is no snow on the
ground the dogs are
used as pack animals, carrying food,
kitchen utensils, clothing and other neces-
sities for their masters. All they ask for
their services is a little coarse food once
a day (some dogs when not working are
fed but once in two days) and a place to
sleep, whether it be in the snow at tempera—
tures often 60° below zero or on the moss
or bare ground in the heat of summer. The
temperature of Central and Northern
Alaska last winter touched 68° below zero
and notwithstanding this terriﬁc cold these
dogs remained out doors, tied to their stakes
and covered with snow.

In one especially ﬁne team I saw a large
125—pound dog, but his coat of hair was very

 

ALASKAN TEAM DOG

 




 

 

 

Page 6

 

YUKON MALEMUTE

short and ﬁne, showing his domestic an-
cestry. His master, upon being questioned,
told me that this was his best dog and the
leader of his team. When I inquired how
such a dog stood the severe weather, he
replied that when the thermometer reached
40° below or lower he took this particular
dog into his tent or cabin because the dog
could not stand the lowest sub-zero tem—
perature.

The white men’s dogs, as I saw them in
British Columbia, the Yukon territory and
Alaska, are at least given some care, ac-
cording as the owner is kind-hearted or
otherwise, but the dogs owned by the In-
dians are in a deplorable condition. Half
fed, tied to stakes with short ropes that
become twisted about the stakes or trees,
huddled in holes in the earth which they
dig in order to obtain some protection from
the cold, the sun and insects, these neglected
creatures lead miserable lives. They share
the primitive existence and the hardships of
their masters. The Royal Canadian Mounted
Police who patrol British Columbia and the
Yukon often are obliged to take the law
into their own hands and mercifully destroy
dogs that have become emaciated from
starvation or enfeebled by old age.

 

.NOME SLEDGE DOG

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Regardless of the rapid development of
airplane routes in the Arctic and of the
construction of roads, these sledge dogs for
an indeﬁnite period to come, will do the
rough work on the trails of the northern
countries. The lives of the trappers, mail-
carriers, prospectors and the police often
depend upon the strength and intelligence
of these fearless and trusted servants of
man.

A Pet Dog in the Woods

HIS is a true story and we want you

to hear it because we think it is re—
markable and because it may encourage
someone else, losing a little dog, not to give
up hope of recovering it too easily.

The dog of which we write is a Belgian
Griffon, about seven pounds in weight, and
nearly eight years old. He is very nervous
and timid, and had never been far from his
mother’s side in his life. He had been a
poor feeder too, often having to be coaxed
to eat and even fed by hand. You will say
he was spoiled; perhaps so, but so affec—
tionate and devoted that his owner loved
him dearly.

Well, one evening last summer—July 11
to be exact, the car in which he was riding
was in an accident. In the excitement, little
“Gosse” jumped out and darted into the
woods. The place was in the cranberry bog
district, among ponds and pine woods. A
wild section, with few inhabitants. The next
day a great search was begun, many people
from the neighborhood of Duxbury, King-
ston and even Plymouth, took part, some to
win the reward, some to restore the dog to
its grieving mistress. During the next three
weeks, he was seen a number of times, but
was too wild to approach. Probably the
searchers had frightened him. Everything
that could be thought of was done, food put
near a cabin where he spent the ﬁrst night,
calling him through the wood, even having
a Canadian woodsman‘ search for miles
through the underbrush and bogs. A lady,
whose husband owns the bogs in that sec—
tion, asked their gangs of workmen to throw
out scraps of food from their midday meal.
This probably kept the dog alive through
August, but he was not seen again for a
month, and all hope of getting him alive
was abandoned.

Then, on September 4, two men, walk-
ing through the woods, suddenly spied poor
“Gosse,” standing, trembling, in an opening.
They said he was a mere skeleton, but ran
off when they called him. '

That night the lady began putting out
food again, and Alfred, who lives in the
cabin, began baiting a trap. The trap was
a dog kennel baited with meat. First a
skunk was caught. It became so tame that
it ran into the trap constantly, and he had
to catch and conﬁne it. Then a kitten was
caught and then a big striped cat. Mean—
while Alfred had the impression that some—
thing was sleeping in his shed, for there
was a little depression, like a nest, in a
box of hay which stood there. Whatever the
visitor was it must have come late and left
early, for he never saw it. But he had seen
the little wraith of a dog in the woods
twice, so he kept on baiting his trap nightly.
Finally, one night, he heard a noise and

Jan. 1937

    

BELGIAN GRIFFON

ran out only to see the dog dash out of the
trap! The door had not closed tightly
enough to hold him. A dreadful disappoint—
ment, as you can imagine. That night the
trap was baited with freshly cooked liver.
At eleven o’clock the trapdoor fell, and
little “Gosse” was inside! This was Oc—
tober 11. He had been lost in the woods
for almost three months!

Strangely enough, the little fellow seemed
thankful to be under a roof once more and,
though little more than a skeleton, he
jumped on the bed and slept there quietly.

Next morning the dog’s owner was noti—
ﬁed. The meeting between them was touch-
ing to see. He screamed with joy when he
heard her voice, jumped in her arms and
licked her face. When she got up he seized
her skirt in his mouth, fearful, probably, of
losing her again.

This is a true story, unusual, and almost
impossible as it seems, yet there is so much
more we can only guess at. What fright
this tiny creature—unused to any privation
or exposure—must have suffered. Hunger,
fear of thunder storms, of wild animals, and
big dogs, in those lonely bogs and woods.

It seems miraculous that he could have
survived, and we are very grateful to the
kind Providence that protected him and .re-
stored him to us—“Are not two sparrows
sold for a farthing? And one of them shall
not fall to the ground without your Father.”
Matt. 10-29. ALICE THORPE

Cherry Hill, Canton, Mass.

King of His Corner
WILLIS MEHANNA

The kingbird is an aristocrat in appear—
ance and behavior; a bird of class and digni—
ﬁed in manner. He comes north later in
spring than most of the feathered tribe but
stays till about October ﬁrst. Kingbirds like
to nest in» the tops of large apple—trees,
maples and cedars. They lay four or ﬁve
whitish-like eggs with black, hieroglyphic
markings on them, and are usually success-
ful in bringing their young to maturity.
This bird will chase birds much larger than
himself away from his domain; some-times
following them great distances, ﬁghting and
harassing them till they are glad to get
away. They always nest near dwelling-
houses. The kingbird’s notes of deﬁance
scare away marauding hawks that do not
like to be seen very much. Webworms,
caterpillars and all sorts of insect pests
furnish food for the kingbird. He was at
one time accused of eating honey bees but
he does nothing of the kind. He never both-
ers fruits or grain. He belongs in the
setting of a farm home.

 




 

 

 

 

 

Page 52

Wondering

’Tis said the creatures of the field .and sky
Are lost forever on the day they die. .
Yet why should Heaven so sweet a joy dis-

card .
As that gay oriole singing in the yard?

I f it be true, when done with earthly strife,
Mortals alone are given eternal life,

Will not the time in Heaven seem over-long
Without that little wild canary’s song?

If only men at last to Heaven shall go,
There must be joys the angels want to know.
For surely with the. coming of the spring
The first red robin is a Heavenly thing.

EDGAR A. GUEST

Animals in Flood Area

ELDA SPRUNGER

HE recent Ohio-Mississippi River ﬂood

took a heavy toll among animals includ-
ing cattle, horses, sheep, hogs and all kinds
of pets. There were instances where, ei-
ther due to love, or perhaps because of ir-
responsibility caused by threatening danger,
persons refused to part with their pets. For
example, one woman clung tenaciously to
a canary while she was being hurriedly
transported by boat from high waters to a
place of safety.

Pictures in the newspapers told graphic
stories about our dumb friends. One show-
ed a long line of refugees being carried on
stretchers by rescuers to a waiting train.
A faithful dog was trotting alongside one
stretcher. No doubt the stretcher bore his
master or mistress. Perhaps one of the
most pathetic pictures was that of a beau—
tiful collie, stranded on top of an automo-
bile. The water was almost over the top.
Poor collie wore a look of anxiety—waiting

for some one to rescue him. Another show—

ed a ﬂock of chickens huddled together on
the roof of a hen house. The owners, no
doubt, had ﬂed for higher ground, while the
fowls had to await death by drowning or
starvation.

A touching incident took place in south—
ern Indiana—Lawrenceburg. Here was a
case where love for pets proved a real prob-
lem for orderly evacuation of refugees. A
little girl, age eight, owned a pet dog, a
fox terrier. She was taken from her home,
the ﬂooded area, by boat to a temporary re—
lief station. Through all her harrowing ex—
periences she clung devotedly to her beloved
pet. When the little girl arrived at the
relief station she was asked to give up her
pet. But the little lass stoutly refused to
be separated from her dog.

The time came for the school hacks to
transport the terrier’s mistress, and other
children to Greensburg—a refugee camp.
The children en masse refused to leave
without their pets.

Finally to expedite matters it was de—
cided to take all pets—cats, dogs and cana-
ries. They were of course segregated. A
kind-hearted veterinarian of Greensburg
opened his hospital for the refugee pets.
He issued checks for the animals and kind—
ly consented to feed and keep the pets for
the children. Under these conditions and
assurances the relief workers managed to
separate the children from their animal
pa s.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Apr. 1937

Some Kangaroo Facts
EWEN K. PATTERSON

edly the best known of Australian ani-

mals, being familiar, as a Zoo animal
or in pictures, to millions of people who have
never visited Australia, it is only in their
native land that these splendid animals are
seen at their best. They are still fairly
plentiful in Australia; in some states they
are closely protected by law, but in others,
unfortunately, the so-called “sport” of kan-
garoo—hunting is still indulged in. Years
ago kangaroos were as numerous in the
Australian bush as were buffaloes on the
American prairies, but as the buffaloes
were exterminated by hunters so are the
kangaroos being wipe-d out in Australia,
for, being grass-eaters, they are considered
a pest, and in the State of Queensland
alone the Government has paid bountiesfor
nearly 10,000,000 kangaroos destroyed in
the last 20-odd years.

A creature that hops on its hind legs
and carries its young in a. bag—like pouch,
especially developed for the purpose—that
is what the kangaroo is, as probably every
one knows. At birth the baby kangaroo is
a very tiny creature, not more than an inch
or so in length. It is blind and devoid of
any fur. Immediately after birth it is
transferred by the mother to her pouch, and
there the little one obtains its milk food.

The baby is carried by the mother in her
pouch until it is about eight or nine
months old, when it is able to run about
and fend for itself. From time to time the
baby leaves the pouch to nibble grass and
to play with other young kangaroos, but it
never goes far away from its mother, seek-
ing refuge again in her pouch at the ﬁrst
Sign of danger.. The little animal actually
dives into the pouch head-ﬁrst and turns
a complete somersault, ending with its head
at the opening. Sometimes the baby when
making a dive will miss its mother’s pouch
and hit the ground instead; it then cries in
a thin, reedy voice until its mother comes
to the rescue.

It is well known, of course, that kan-

g LTHOUGH the kangaroo is undoubt—

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

AUSTRALIAN KANGAROO AND ITS YOUNG

garoos possess remarkable powers of leap-
ing, but it is in their native haunts that the
animals excel in this respect. In the Aus-
tralian bush kangaroos have been known to
do with ease a high jump of over 12 feet,
and a broad jump of more than 30 feet.
The average distance covered in a hop,
when the animal is traveling at high speed,
is about 17 feet. Some species of kangaroo
are even able to climb trees. This fact is
not generally realized outside Australia.
Until recent years the animals were be-
lieved to be monkeys; they live in the tree-
tops in the jungles, and are amazing acro—
bats. They can run up a tree at an extraor-
dinarily fast speed, and it is astonishing
from what heights they can jump down to
the ground without injury. I have fre—
quently see-n them leap down from a tree
to the ground 60 feet below, and without a
halt bound away into the bush.

Kangaroo hunting is a poor sport, but
the courage these noble animals display
when they are hunted is inspiring. At bay
a kangaroo can be dangerous to any person
who ventures within range of the powerful
hind limbs. Many hunters have been badly
wounded by the big kangaroos. With its
back to a tree the kangaroo will ﬁght game—
ly to the very last, and the females will do
anything to protect their young. Often,
when pursued, the animals take to water,
standing in water just deep enough to com-
pel their adversaries to swim while they
have a ﬁrm footing. In such cases the ani-
mals can generally evade the dogs employed
by many of the hunters, but against man
they have no chance.

No other animal has been so much hon—
ored in Australia as the kangaroo; it is
represented in the Australian national coat-
of-arms, and the most popular set of post—
age stamps ever issued in Australia were
those bearing a picture of a kangaroo. Be-
cause of that, it is tragical that the animal
should now be regarded as a pest and be
slaughtered so ruthlessly.

A Friend and Co-operator
WILLIS MEHANNA

The purple martin is as useful as he is
friendly and beautiful. He is a sort of next-
door neighbor and a bright cheery one. I
usually put. a small box with two holes in
one side of it on a pole and about sixteen
feet from the ground. I sometimes have as
many as eight of these and they are always
occupied. In this way, on account of num—
bers, martins can hold their own against
the English sparrow.

The purple martin is a great insect eater
and does not bother fruits or grain. Mar-
tins are cleanly. No litter or ﬁlth is ever
found about their homes. The parent birds
always carry such away. Their notes are
liquid and cheerful and inspire any hearer

. . who is at all a lover
of birds. The mar-
tins come n o r th
early in the spring,
rear their brood and
start south the lat—
ter half of August.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

31'

Page 100

Evocation

HELEN MCMAHAN

Hunter’s guns destroyed our pheasants
And the plovers. Something’s gone
From the happy days of summer;
Never more at break of dawn
Shall we hear their welcome calling
Far across the placid lake.
What a fearful price for slaughter
Paid by all, just for the sake
Of the barbaric sport of killing!
Will these huntsmen never learn
How much more a live bird cheers us
Than a dead one? Let us turn
All our efforts to protecting
Nature’s haunts, and make amends
For the wanton, ruthless slaying
Of our lowly feathered friends.

Tourists and Bull-fights
inMeXico
ELLA MCELLIGOTT

OW that the beauties of Mexico are be—

coming more generally known, great
numbers of tourists are ﬂocking there to
see this foreign paradise so close at hand.
One may well compliment them on thelr
choice of a vacation spot, for there are few
places on this earth so richly endowed by
nature. A heavenly climate, majestic scen-
ery, and kindly peOple who greet the visitor
in soft musical voices, help one pass long
remembered days.

There is one blemish on the picture, how-
ever. Bull-ﬁghting, a strange hold-over from
dim days in the past, is allowed. Foolish
tourists think they do not see Mexico unless
they attend a bull-ﬁght. In fact the accus-
tomed greeting when visiting Americans
meet in Mexico is, “Have you been to a
bull-ﬁght yet?” The answer possibly will
be; “Not yet, but I expect to go before I
leave. I really don’t care to see one, but
I am going just for curiosity.”

I should like to urge people who visit
Mexico to curb their curiosity, or to direct
it into more humane channels. Each time
a person attends a bull-ﬁght, he encourages
the practice and makes the promoters of it
think there is a healthy demand for this
form of cruel activity. Bull-ﬁghting has no
place in this age, and civilized people should
refuse to lend it any support. It is wicked
and vicious to torture animals that unthink-
ing people may be amused for a few hours.
Amused is hardly the word, for who could
be amused at the plight of dumb creatures
ﬁghting for their lives?

If the tourist wants pageantry or local
color, the bull-ﬁght is not the place to seek
it. The parade that precedes the perform-
ance takes the eye momentarily, but when
one considers for what purpose the par—
ticipants are dressed up, the sight of them
is sickening. Mexico’s streets and highways
are full of colorful sights. There are ﬁestas,
fairs, and market days where the people are
engaged in wholesome activities, to fascin—
ate the tourist for any amount of time he
has to spare.

Thoughtful Mexican people decry bull—
ﬁghts, too. The average Mexican concerned
with making a living has neither the time
nor money to spend upon this savage exhi-
bition. Bull-ﬁghts play to the tourist, and

OUR DUMB

ANIZIIALS

July, 1937

 

THE WILD ELK RESPONDS TO THE CALL OF HUNGER

 

they would have lean days if tourists sen-
sibly remained away.

People may ask, “Well, is bull-ﬁghting
any worse than killing animals in the stock—
yards?” Yes, though that, as done here, is
a disgrace to a civilized country. Six bulls
in every afternoon’s performance in the
arena are slaughtered unmercifully. The
poor bulls are ﬁrst tortured by being kept
in a dark enclosure where they are plagued
and beaten. Then when the stands are ﬁlled
with thoughtless, cruel spectators, the poor
harassed animals are let out into the broad
daylight of the ﬁeld and are chased and
stabbed and tortured, while the mob howls
in delight. Who would be seen at such a
performance? Horses employed to chase the
bulls lose their lives often, too, in a most
inhumane way. The only ones who have a
chance at all are the performers, the mata-
dors, the banderilleros, and the picadors.
At last the matador wins the ﬁght. What
mockery! It isn’t a ﬁght at all, for from
the outset the bull is doomed.

Some may question if bull—ﬁghting is any
worse than prize-ﬁghting? A thousand
times worse. In prize ﬁghts the participants
take part of their own accord. There are
at least rules for the game. For whatever
the combatants suffer they accept the risk.

One cannot say the least word in defense
of bull—ﬁghting, and all humane hearted
people should do all they can to assist in
helping it die a deserved death.

Go to Mexico by all means. Go with the
determination that you will not be seen at
a bull-ﬁght, but will do all you can to dis-
courage other unthinking tourists from
making fools of themselves by spending a
precious afternoon watching dumb animals
give up their lives, which they so much
want to enjoy in peace, even as you and I,
and the tourist too.

Elk is a Family Pet

EARLE W. GAGE

N the heart of the Canadian Rockies,

beside the main line of the the Canadian
National Railways, Mrs. L. A. Smith, wife
of the section foreman, has succeeded in
winning the friendship of a wild elk. In the
section cabin, at Geikie, about eight miles
west of Jasper National Park, each morning
Mrs. Smith calls her pet elk, “Beauty,” and
he always comes a-running; that is, except
in mating season, when he is away on the
long trek. But, faithfully, he returns to the
neighborhood of the Smith cabin, to again
take up the friendship.

For ﬁve years Beauty has kept up his
acquaintance with Mrs. Smith, even though
it is sometimes difﬁcult for a little home
so far removed from a source of supplies, to
provide the necessary “hand-outs” to please
the palate of the elk. Besides vegetables
and loaves of bread, the 18-year-old bull
elk consumed two crates of apples last
spring and winter. Those, Mrs. Smith con-
ﬁdes, comprised his dessert. From Novem-
ber to May, Beauty is the family pet. He
then becomes a wanderer of the wild places.
“But,” remarked Mrs. Smith, “when he’s in
this part of the country, he never fails to
come at my call‘ when mealtime rolls
around.” '

In the accompanying picture we see
Beauty approaching the door of the section
foreman’s home to eat out of the dish
which Mrs. Smith holds forth.

Our readers are urged to clip from “Our
Dumb Animals” various articles and request
their local editors to republish. Copies so
mutilated will be made good by us upon
application.

 

 

 

l
i
The Jack London Club, an organized protest against the cruelty con- i
i
i
}

nected with trained animal performances on stage and screen, has already
enlisted six hundred and eighty-three thousand, ﬁve hundred members
who have pledged themselves to boycott theaters presenting such un-
natural acts. This membership represents all sections of the United
States and many foreign countries. No ofﬁcers, no dues. For full infor-
mation address, Jack London Club, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 121;

The Non-Flying Penguin
ELDA SPRUNGER

ENGUINS, bland-faced sea-birds, have
wings but they cannot ﬂy. The wings
are short and stubby, and move freely at
the shoulder joint. But having no joint
in itself, therefore incapable of ﬂexure, the
wings of the penguins are useless so far as
ﬂying is concerned. But in water the wings
serve as excellent paddles. And penguins
are known as clever swimmers and divers.
Their web f5et aid them in preserving an
upright position when standing. The whole
body is covered with short scale-like feath—
ers, most of them consisting only of a simple
shaft, without the development of barbs.
Some penguins have the head decorated
with long tufts. Others have long tail quills.
Several species of these seabirds exist.
Those most commonly known are the petrel
penguin, great penguin, king penguin and
the jackass penguin. The illustration shows
the manchot species of the penguin. Most
of the species when full-grown measure
about two feet when standing erect.

Being known as sea-birds they naturally
live near water. One species is found along
the South American coast near Ecuador,
and in the Galapagos, a group of islands
several hundred miles west of Ecuador.
Others are found along the coasts of Aus—
tralia, New Zealand, and around the Cape
of Good Hope. Certain species live along
the more northern part of the Atlantic
Coast. They are found most abundantly in
high latitudes. Navigators have seen them
in ﬂocks of from 25,000 to 30,000.

The penguin eats crabs, lobsters and
shrimp. It is also fond of snails, limpets
and oysters. This diet is varied by ﬁsh and
vegetable matter.

The nesting and breeding habits of the
penguins are interesting. Some species
form large breeding colonies called “rock—
eries.” The nest is made of leaves or grass,
and sometimes, where vegetation is scant,
of stones and rubbish. The nest is placed
on the ground or in a hole. Two eggs are
laid. These are chalky white, or pale green.
Baby penguins are bornblind, and their
little bodies are clad in down. Parent pen-
guins care for their young an unusually long
time before taking them to the water.

Very interesting are the nesting and
breeding habits of the emperor penguin, the
largest species of the bird. Several months
ago a few of these birds were added to the
Field Museum, Chicago, Ill. . Some of these
were collected by Rear Admiral Richard E.
Byrd. The bird hatches its egg by holding
it on its foot. A loose fold of skin com-
pletely encloses the egg. In this nest the
egg is kept warm, and a temperature high
enough to cause incubation is maintained.

The natural home of the emperor pen-
guin is in cold climates, where temperatures
range from 40 to 60 degrees below zero.
Storms and blizzards naturally are frequent
in such areas. The ground is frozen hard,
affording no nesting spot. The bird knows
by instinct that unprotected eggs would
freeze solid in a short time. It also is very
quick and alert to cover unprotected eggs,
regardless of “marital” afﬁliations. This
instinct or “regenerative impulse” often re-
sults in open conﬂict when more than one
bird desires to hatch the same egg. This

OUR DUIlIB

 

MANCHOT PENGUIN—MOTHER
BIRD ON NEST
Kerguelen Islands, Indian Ocean

results in a high rate of infant penguin
mortality—from 70 to 80 per cent.

Penguins are described as stupid when
approached. Yet it has been shown that
they are quite intelligent because they are
easily trained. When molested they display
great courage and bite savagely in defense.

The Busy Bush Tit

WINIFRED HEATH

UST outside my study window there is

an oleander tree and to it come a host of
bird visitors, the cheery mocker, the twitter-
ing linnet, the gorgeous black and gold
oriole, the pert Anna’s hummer, the only
California resident member of that charming
family, cedar waxwings with tufted head
and dab of scarlet on wing or tail feathers,
and the bush tit. This little Westerner is
one of the most interesting of all my bird
callers. He only measures the length of an
average adult thumb but he is full of vim
and vigor and bubbling over with good
cheer.

This feathered, ﬂuffy mite in soft browns
and greys makes his home all along the
Paciﬁc coast, traveling all the way from
British Columbia down to Mexico. He is
very sociable, unlike the Anna’s hummer
who goes it mostly alone, and travels al-
ways with a host of relatives and friends.
The bush tit has somehow found a neat way
of foiling any lurking enemy, a hawk or
other feathered foe hovering overhead. They
are extremely alert and at the least hint of
danger anywhere each little bird stays put
wherever it happens to be and each bush
tit utters a shrill sound. With this shrill
trilling coming from so many different

ANIMALS

Aug. 1937

quarters it is hard to know the exact loca—
tion. As their low-toned plumage is also
hard to detect when they are among the
bushes a ﬂock of bush tits is not easy to
dismay and they ﬂit around as bold as you
please, in spite of their diminutive size.

The bush tit is very modern in its habits,
being always in a hurry with some urgent
business on hand. He never stays still for
a minute and as he alights on some favorite
bush or my oleander tree there is a lot of
leaf rustling, chattering and chirping. Then
some scout gives the signal and he is off in
the twinkling of an eye.

When the bush tit goes hunting for food
he scans every leaf and twig, performing
all kinds of acrobatic stunts like his close
cousin the Chickadee, also a member of the
charming titmouse family. It is this very
habit which makes the bush tit so valuable
in the fruit orchards along the Paciﬁc
Coast, his preferred food consisting of the
bark—lice and scale insects which do so much
damage in grapefruit and orange groves.
He also dines on spiders and many other
insects more or less harmful in orchard and
grain ﬁeld.

As a builder this tiny bird stands high,
making a lovely gourd-like nest many times
his own size which it takes several weeks to
complete. He works from the outside in
and puts the roof on ﬁrst. The entrance
is near the top and just large enough for
the rightful tenants. The materials are
varied, lichen, moss, leaves, cobwebs and
hundreds of feathers for the lining. Since
these are not so easy to ﬁnd, it sometimes
happens that the nestlings arrive before
their downy couch is quite completed. Like
other bird builders the bush tit uses his
head. William L. Finley tells of a pair of
bush tits he watched in Oregon who made
their home completely from the moss which
hangs from the trees in that green and
slightly damp state. When it was ﬁnished
their home was too high up to suit them,
so they got a long strip of bark ﬁber and
attached their home to it, making it a
palatial residence twenty inches long and
slung among the willow leaves.

When a party of bush tits comes to my
oleander tree I drop everything to watch
them. For to me there is nothing more lov-
able in all the bird world than those ﬂuffy
little fellows, so full of life, having such a
good time together, and helping out their
human friends all up and down the Paciﬁc
coast by getting rid of countless thousands
of persistent, predatory bugs.

The Vesper Sparrow’s Song
LELIA A. FLAGG

One day, as I walked by the road-side,
While the shadows were growing long,
There came to me in the gloarning,
The vesper sparrow’s song-

My heart was ﬁlled with rapture
As I stood in the twilight there,
And listened to him singing
His tender evening prayer.

And when the singer in silence,
Had flown to his nest apart,

I went on my way rejoicing—
The song within my heart.

 

 

 




 

Oct. 1937

The Old Dog

Written on a scene witnessed in the Springﬁeld S. P. C. A.

MARGARET T. LAMSON

I saw an old dog brought into a hospital

To be put to sleep.

Weary, he could not stand——

The man who carried him

Set him down in silence,

In silence the girl rang the bell,

A white—coated attendant came

And took the old dog in his arms—

He spoke and said:

“Do you want his collar, Sir?”

The man took 0]?" the collar and gently laid
his hand

For an instant on the old dog’s head.

The dim, eyes looked quietly into his mas-
ter’s

And he was carried 0]? without complaint.

(A good dog is more selfless than a man)

Silently, the man paid the fee

And walked through the door——

But I could sense all the memories

Of his dog’s life that came flooding over
him.

Through the tender grass of early spring,

Across the beaten sand by the loud ocean’s
roar,

Amid the dead leaves of autumn,

In the silent snow of winter, the young dog
ran.

In every sorrow that the man had known,

In every joy that had ﬁlled his heart,

Through all the years of his dog’s life,

He had felt the pressure of that noble head

Against his knee.

Ah, well, a chapter closed—

Silently, he entered his strangely lonely car.

No wonder everyone loves a dog! He
doesn’t care because he is snubbed at times.
He even takes his beatings with good grace
and licks the hand of the onewho abuses
him, as though to say: “How you misunder-
stand me! I hold no ill-will against you,
but I wish you wouldn’t hurt me, or scold
me.”

The dog learns a great deal from his
human-being master—but, Oh, how much
that master——and everyone of us—can learn
from that dog!

' GEORGE MATTHEW ADAMS

 

“BABE” AND “FAT,” CANADIAN BEAUTIES

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Page .149.

Boake Carter on “A Dog’s Devotion” "

Reprinted by special permission of the Author

DODGE CITY, Kan.—For three
months now a brown and black dog
has spent virtually all its time sitting
under a sign three miles from town——
waiting. For what? No one knows,
but the prevalent theory is that a faith-
ful animal is waiting for a faithless
master to return.

LAID down the newspaper and looked at
H “Tatters” curled up contentedly at my

feet. When Rags passed on into the
great beyond of dogdom last November, at
that ripe old age of 15, a strange metamor-
phosis came over Tatters.

It was as though the playful, irrespon-
sible, joyous “crown prince” realized that
the mantle of family guardianship had de-
scended upon his lithesome, but curly
shanks. His mad romps became less fre-
quent. His boyish bounce surrendered to a
dignity more in keeping with his new post
of responsibility. While previously he
barked at birds, he now conﬁned his barks
to strangers at the gate.

Before he showed for me and mine affec-
tion, high spirits and young exuberance——
the affection which meant a leap at my
hand and then a series of wild circles upon
the grass, raced at top speed at an almost
incredible angle, accompanied by yaps as
much as to say: “How’s this for sport?”

Now he patrolled with an almost self-
conscious dignity. For the ducks, geese
and other animals he showed a lofty con-
tempt, punctured with occasional surges
of terrier desire to pursue them and nip
a feather or two from their tails.

Each day in my last month’s illness he
has paid me a morning and evening visit,
to satisfy himself as to my state of well-
being. Now, the ﬁrst day in the sun and
out of doors, he dogged my slow and halt-
ing steps with comparable pace. Sitting in
the sun typing, he has curled beneath the
chair, alternating this position with a post
at my feet.

I looked at him and thought of the brown
and black dog sitting in sad and lonely vigil
beneath a Kansas signpost.

Devotion? L o y alt y?
Two of the ﬁnest virtues
in all the world—and yet
it is ironic that it was,
is and always will be the
lowly dog that gives the
most convincing demon-
stration of these two
characteristics, w h i c h
might well take their
place beside the other
famous three — f a i t h,
hope and charity.

The supreme beauty
of a dog’s devotion is
that it is given Without
any demand for recom—
pense. Unlike vain hu—
mans, it calls for no rec-
ognition. It demands no
selﬁsh tributes.

It has a depth which
is unfathomable. We
miserable humans may
suddenly turn upon him
in a ﬁt of temper. We

may hit him, or we may kick him. We
may requite this selfless service with a
stone.

Yet he always crawls back, a stricken
look of puzzled hurt shining from his eyes,
and licks our hand as if to plead forgive-
ness for having given cause to cast stone
or stick at him.

Home, luxuries, material things mean
nothing to him. It is only his master who
counts in his life. He will trot a thousand
miles with the penniless tramp, if he loves
that tramp. He will love a millionaire
master, not for his millions, but because he
is the master.

Uncannily, he can differentiate between
your friends and your enemies. Somehow
he knows who is bent on doing you mis-
chief and who is not. His amazing intuition
will warn you of lurking, hidden dangers.

Even though his master may treat him
shabbily, lock him up for a week and leave
the job of feeding him to the neighbors, he
will bark a joyous welcome when his
thoughtless owner returns.

It is a love that passes all human under-
standing, because human love is. only self-
ish, and human understanding limited.

If he is sick he crawls into acorner by
himself and demands no attention.

If you remove a splinter from a pad in
one of his paws, no matter how much you
may hurt him in doing“ so, he will lick your
ﬁngers with gratitude. Compare that With
the ungratefulness of humans who are
cured of sickness. They take those.who
help them as a matter of course. Finan-
cial reimbursement is considered by. a
human adequate discharge of any poss1ble
obligation.

He will grieve for a master when the
latter is gone. Witness the recent case of
the dog of a New York man who was ill
and sent to a hOSpitalQ The dog would
neither eat nor sleep. His grief was only
assuaged when the surgeons permitted the
man to telephone his home and the re-
ceiver was held against the dog’s ear.
When he heard that beloved and familiar
voice he barked aloud his joy. At least he
knew his master was not dead. In his intui-
tive doggy way, and by listening to tone of
voice he knew some day his master would
return.

Through all the chaos of changing
worlds; through prosperity or depression;
through riches or poverty; through sick-
ness and in health~the one unchanging
force, it seems to me, is the love, devotion
and loyalty a dog gives his master.

And that is Why sometimes a red ﬁlm of
fury suffuses my gaze when I see a miser-
able wretch not even slacken speed in his
automobile after he has tossed a broken
little furry body to the gutter in the mad—
ness of his speed; why I boil when I hear
some one remark: “0, well, it’s only a
dog;” why I have only contempt for the
faithless master of the little brown and
black dog under the Kansas signpost.

If humans could only learn the lesson of
service from a dog, what a glorious world
this would be.

(Copyright, 1937)

 

 

 




 

N 07). I 937

The Vagaries of Jenny Wren

ELIZABETH F. UNDERWOOD

N the early part of June, soon after mov-
Hing to Cohasset for the summer, we no—
ticed when our awnings were let down in
the morning, that a lot of tiny twigs came
falling down on the piazza ﬂoor.

It seemed a mystery how they could have
been there, but one day after the awnings
had been pulled up, I saw “Jenny Wren”
very busy, ﬂying back and forth with little
twigs, putting them into the folds of the
awning, evidently beginning to build a nest.

After that, every morning more twigs
fell out, when the awning was let down.

It seemed hard that all her worth-while
labor should be in vain, so we fashioned a
nesting-place out of a small wooden box,
and nailed it under one end of the piazza
roof. In a twinkling Mr.. and Mrs. Wren
came ﬂying excitedly to the box, accepting
it as a good sort of nest, and began vigor-
ous work, bringing lots of twigs, cheerily
singing all the While as they ﬂew outward.

At last Mr. Wren perched on his door—
step, with a longer twig, and he had difﬁ—
culty getting it in, turning it this way and
that. In despair, taking it lengthwise, he
backed in with it. Quite a bit of engineer-
ing, we thought.

We were feeling quite happy over the
prospect of watching the arrival of the
baby birds, but one day, to our dismay, we
missed the joyful song of Jenny Wren, and
we found that an English sparrow had sto-
len the nest for we saw him ﬂying happily
in and out. It was a disappointment to lose
our cheery little friends, but, strange to say,
the sparrows ﬁnally deserted the nest, so we
lost the pleasure of seeing any little young
birds.

Sometime after, to our delight, the wrens
came ﬂying to the nest, seemingly pleased
to be back, and we watched them going in

 

MAKING FRIENDS WITH THE PIGEONS

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

and out many times, but never carrying
anything in. Now and then they would
hover around in and out of the folds of the
awnings as they did at ﬁrst. They did not
appear at all depressed at the stealing of
their nest, but, on the contrary, would ﬂy
back and forth joyously, often sitting on
the doorstep, singing merrily. We decided
that the whole affair was a mystery, past
ﬁnding out.

Shotfor Stealing Waste

JAMES THORNBURG

T was pleasant to be in the country that
“ﬁne day. I had driven there. to buy some
cherries. I stopped at the farmer’s place
where I intended to buy them.

“Many cherries this year?” I asked.

“Yes, sir, plenty of them,” he answered.
“Come with me into the orchard.”

He was right. The cherry trees were
loaded so that they looked red from a dis-
tance. Cherries lay everywhere rotting on
the ground.

“What are you going to do with them
all?” I asked.

“I don’t know,” he answered. “There are
more than we will use or sell.” '

Suddenly I stopped. There lying on the
ground was a sight that ﬁlled me with rage.
What had once been a beautiful red-headed
woodpecker was now torn and mangled by
shot.

“I shot him,” the farmer told me. This I
could obviously see.

“Why?” I asked.

“Oh, they steal the cherries,” he an-
swered, unconcernedly.

I didn’t buy any cherries. After giving

the farmer a piece of my mind I left im-
mediately. I wish now that instead of let-*
ting my temper get the best of me I had
tried to make him see the cruelty and folly
of his thoughtless act.

 

Page 173

A Plea for Our Birds—
Even for the Sparrow

N ORNITHOLOGIST, John A. Brock,

delivered a radio address recently which
has been reproduced in The Kind Deeds
Messenger of the Latham Foundation for
the Promotion of Humane Education, Oak—
land, California. We quote the following
excerpts from it. They are well worth
reading.

From time to time we hear that certain
wild birds are destructive to crops. But
are they?

If we were to try every native bird on
his own merits and give each species a fair
trial in the case against him every action
would be dismissed.

In California we require every one of our
large hawks and owls. If we kill them off
or reduce their numbers to the danger
point our ﬁelds will become infested with
rats and ground squirrels. This condition
with reference to the ground squirrel actu-
ally exists in certain parts of the state to-
day. If we kill the smaller hawks and the
shrike who is known as the butcher bird—
a plague of mice will result.

Kindness to wild birds will repay us 100
per cent for any time or expense we may
give. We should remember the birds especi-
ally during cold, stormy weather and place
food out for them. Storms and other causes
take a heavy toll of bird life.

Let me say right here—Parents who
place guns in the hands of their boys, can-
not close their eyes to the fact that sooner
or later, in nine cases out often, that gun
will be used to kill birds.

The statement is frequently made: “The
boy will kill only sparrows.” And why kill
sparrows? What useful purpose can it
serve? The imported European sparrow,
like the domestic cat or dog, is a product
of our civilization. This bird for centuries
has been the constant companion of man.
He prefers the roar of trafﬁc in our city
streets to the woods and quiet of the
country.

The claim is frequently made that he
drives our native birds away. Let me say
here, with the sole exception that at times
the sparrow will occupy the nest of the
swallow or martin if built under the eaves
of a city building, I have never known any
other species of our native birds to be dis-
turbed by his presence.

 

The Sparrow seldom receives a word of
praise or the credit that is due him. Make
a study of the sparrow and ﬁnd out how
valuable his services are to the health de-
partments of our large cities. He removes
and consumes decaying food left on the
streets, which otherwise would go to feed
the disease—carrying house ﬂy. He searches
over our public buildings and around our
homes for every variety of spider, moth
and beetle. Rain or shine the good work of
the sparrow goes on. In my opinion there
is no reason for the thought in the minds
of so many people that city sparrows should
be killed. May I suggest to those who hold
that opinion to make a brief study of the
little fellow, dodging automobiles and the
crowds on the sidewalk. There is much in
him to praise, and but little to condemn.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

Page 28

and loudly—a bird choir worth going a long
distance to hear.

The chubby meadowlark often is the last
of our early spring birds to arrive. It is
nearly always to be found on the ground in
ﬁelds and meadows, although the male ﬂies
to the top of a post, tall weed or tree when
he wishes to sing. “Spring is here,” he
sings in clear, sweet tones. And when you
hear his “spring is here” you may be sure
he is right and that winter is indeed over.

Is Instinct Kind or Unkind?

G. BURGESS STRONG

RE children naturally kind to dumb

animals or must they be taught?
This is a question that ariSes from time
to time and I have come to the conclu—
sion that the latter is correct.

As an example, when our small dog
was about six months old, she failed to
return to the door to be admitted one
afternoon. At intervals, we heard a dis—
tressed whining but could not discover
where the dog could be. After a long
search we found her in a huge barrel in
the alley. Sticks, large stones and bricks
had been generously piled in on top of her
and one tiny front paw dangled helplessly
when we placed her on the ground.

Of course, we realize-d that the dog
couldn’t have got into the barrel by
herself, so it was a pretty angry family
who began to make inquiries among the
neighbors. One lady had seen the neigh-
bor’s four—year-old boy drop the puppy in
the barrel, saying that he didn’t like her.
Why she didn’t notify us or liberate the
dog is still a matter of question.

A veterinarian placed the broken leg in
a plaster cast and the dog stumped around
on her make-shift leg quite cheerfully.
On the day the cast was to have been
removed, the dog walked into the house
without it. This seemed providential to
us, since we had been worrying about the
proper manner of removing it without
hurting the dog’s leg, which appeared to
be quite healed though slightly crooked at
the lower joint.

Lecturing the small boy about cruelty
to animals only produced a puzzled look,‘
proving that he had no conception of what
all the fuss was about.

Observation shows that while some chil-
dren are eager to pet a dumb creature,
others will throw rocks and otherwise
show a callousness or indifference. Can
this be due to the fact that they have
no pets of their own or because they have
not been taught to be kind to all dumb
creatures?

I wish that every family might have
at least one pet for their childern and
teach them, by example, to love and pro-
tect our dumb animals; especially that
faithful friend of mankind—the dog.

More friends are needed to endow stalls
and new kennels in the Angell Memorial
Animal Hospital. Payments of thirty-ﬁve
dollars for a kennel or seventy-ﬁve dollars
for a stall will insure a suitable marker
inscribed with donor’s name. Terms of per-
manent endowment of free stalls and ken-
nels will be given upon application,

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Photographing the
Woodpecker

V. WINIFRED CHIVENS

HE cunning little red—headed woodpeck-

er in the picture has climbed to the
door of his home in a telephone pole to gaze
out at a strange and bewildering country,
calling loudly to his parents for food.

We decided we must have his photograph.
He very quickly disappeared as we began
preparations and erected a stand for the
camera near the entrance. This done, we
withdrew a short distance. Little Red—Head
then ventured out, but the ﬁrst thing he
saw was the camera lens, and the sight of
that cold, glittering eye sent him scuttling
back into the hole. After a time he again
clambered up to the opening. Looking about
in every other direction, he tried to con-
vince himself that that object which had so
frightened him was gone, but. irresistibly
that menacing eye claimed his attention.
The outside world immediately lost its at-
traction and he ducked to darkness and
safety.

After several repetitions of this perform—
ance, he at last decided the dreadful thing
must really be harmless, so sat in the door-
way, clinging tightly with his. toes and
leaning far out as if about to “take off” and
go discovering on his own. This was our
opportunity. The string was pulled. The
camera shutter clicked and ﬂashed. Was he
frightened? He literally fell back into the
nest. It almost seemed that we could hear
him bounce as he landed on the bottom of
the hollow post. A few days later he left
his home for the great open space-s; but his
photograph still causes us many a smile, as
we recall his antics.

 

Feb. 1937

“Like a Thunderbolt
He Falls”

ALETHA M. BONNER

“He Clasps the crag with hooked hands,
Close to the sun in lonely lands,

He watches from his mountain walls,
And like a thunderbolt he falls.”
TENNYSON in “The Eagle”

ROM the days of Euripides, the Gre-

cian poet who lived from 480 to 406
B.C., and who wrote, “The whole air is a
thoroughfare for the eagle,” to the present
century and its contemporary printed word,
the bird of the “broad and sweeping wing,”
has stood as undisputed chief of the aerial
highways.

Not only is he the master—ace of the air,
but from the life-period of Gaius Marius,
the Roman Consul—General, to the colorful
career of Benito Mussolini, the Italian Dic—
tator—Commander, the military world has
ever been eagle—minded in, the molding of its
ﬂag-staffs and spear-heads, of its sword—
hilts. and body-shields.

An eagle appeared on the royal seal of
the King of Ur and from that remote date
on into modern times the effigy has found
imprint in seal, and on the coinage of count—
less realms and republics. Included in this
ensemble of countries showing national pref-
erence for such a symbol of winged power
is the United States. On its great official
seal the eagle is presented with out—spread
wings, and a shield on its breast. In the
right talon it holds an olive branch, in its
left a sheaf of arrows (the signiﬁcance of
these emblems ﬁnding expression in the
phrase “the hope for peace and the power
for war”); while issuing from the beak of
the bird is a scroll inscribed: “E Pluribus
Unwm” (One out of many).

This emperor of the air, this sovereign
hero of national heraldry and numismatics,
needs no physical delineating—he is too
well—known to be described. It is impossible
for him to travel incognito, for his hooked
beak, which serves for “knife, fork, and
spoon,” piercing eyes, expanse of wing, and
brawny body are identification marks
common only to his. kind.

The representative members of the royal
feathered family are fairly uniform in
build and form; these are the bald eagle,
also known as the “Washington,” or “Amer—
ican bird,” being the species which has been
chosen as the national emblem of the
United States; and the golden eagle. Con-
trary to the term “bald,” the bird, as named,
is so called not from a lack of feathers,
but because of the effect produced by its
plumage-pattern of White head and neck.
For the same feather-head-dress reason, the
royal cousin, with its head and neck feath-
ers of brown shaded out to a bright tawny
bqu’ of golden glint, is named “golden.”

A lover of the heights the eagle chooses
as nesting-site the rocky ledge of a high
cliff, or perchance its huge eyrie forms the
crown to a commanding tree. Here in the
lofty and spacious castle young eaglets
spend the first ten to twelve weeks of their
lives, fed and disciplined by the parent
birds; and'then come first lessons in flight.
An Old Testament writer has described
this period of training with picturesque

p)

 




s T. '-...-..... -.¢«A_.I..Vw1-- . a... N... a: i

 

Aug. 1937
“Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde”

BENNETT B. SMITH

T is February and all along the shores of

South America thousands of bobolinks
are lined up to receive their summer cloth-
ing. Both the males and females have been
wearing their drab costumes of the south
but are now changing to the neat, black,
white, and yellow costumes which they will
wear in the north for the summer.

Finally, the dresses are completed and
the trip is begun. Up through Central
America and then along the south as far as
Florida they go and on north until, by the
middle of May, residents of the New Eng—
land states may see groups of a neat, black
and white bird. When all are assembled,
the grand spring concert is started and
every male of the group sings at the top of
his voice. It is the grand opening chorus
but it stops almost as suddenly as it began
and mating begins.

During the mating season the bobolinks
are birds of the open spaces, quiet and al-
most unobserved.

The nest is built among the grasses of the
mead-ow and is so much a part of the land—
scape that it is difﬁcult to ﬁnd. The mother
is a suspicious, cautious creature and slips
through the grasses some distance from the
nest before she arises from it. The father
bird sits in a tree or clings to a reed' and
sings but he is always away from the nest
while doing so. The song is one of mad—
ness, of merriment, full of reckless laughter,
but full, also, of music and an inspiration
to poets.

The eggs, four to six in number, are
white, heavily spotted and blotched with
brown. The bobolink believes in large fam-
ilies. _ '

_ But this rollicking, dashing, songster has
a dual personality.

By early summer the young have grown
to the pin-feather stage and are beginning
to leave the old home. The family is break—
ing up. The old females are shedding their
feathers and, for the second time in the
year, are getting new clothing, those drab—
like, sparrow-colored dresses. The male, too,
is shedding his bright colors and getting a
suit in keeping with the color of his mate.

With the changing dress comes a change
in the mode of living. The birds have been
retiring and quiet during the nesting stages,
remaining in pairs, but now, they begin
ﬂocking together and taking to the marsh-
land. Almost at once they have become
marsh birds eating seeds of swamp grasses
instead of the insects which have been their
delight. The bobolink is now the rice bird.
This life chapter takes place on the twenty-
ﬁrst of August every year, according to a
ten-year record.

Still another name is given this “Dr.
Jekyll and Mr. Hyde” bird. In Jamaica
where it appears on its way south, it is
known as the butter bird because of its
plumpness and fatness.

The bobolink is a decidedly useful bird in
the northern home where it eats a multitude
of grasshoppers, beetles, cutworms, and
caterpillars. Its work is continually in the
interest of man.

Early in the fall the bobolink begins
its migration southward. And, strangely
enough, all the birds go to the east coast

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

BOBOLINK—BIRD OF MANY NAMES

before going south. They seem to have never
learned the short—cut and, no matter how
far inland they may have gone, all follow
this order. And this bird which ﬂew mostly
by night on its northern trip, now goes by
day on the return journey.

The birds pause but a short time in north-
ern South America but hurry on to southern
Brazil where grasses are large and plentiful
and where seeds and the quietude which
they enjoy are supplied for them in abund—
ance during the ﬁve months the-y remain.

Birds of Cheer and Optimism
WILLIS MEHANNA

After a clean, cleansing shower on a
bright summer morning as the sun peeps
through the clouds there is no sound more
beautiful and cheering than the song of the
Baltimore oriole. He fairly radiates op-
timism, and the listener and beholder is
compelled to come under the spell of the
song and be happy and thankful for the
time being at least.

This bird is well known and yet has traits
that some people may not have observed.
He usually builds or rather hangs his nest
of grasses and strings, if he can ﬁnd the
latter, to the limb of a big maple. His
nest is almost always suspended from a
limb that is on the side of the tree closest
to the house. He either instinctively trusts
man and considers him a protector or de-
pends on his good looks to protect him. At
any rate he wins out.

Three or four little ones are hatched out
and they begin to sing before they are very
large. The male oriole is of a beautiful
orange, white and black, while the female
is darker colored and less strikingly marked.
They live almost entirely on insects. Being
sort of warm-weather birds they come north
rather late in spring and leave early in the
fall.

 

Page 195
Launched in Life

MINNIE LEONA UPTON

Eager eyes, and quivering wings,
“Thump‘! Thump!” under each full—fledged
breast!
’Tis the Great Adventure for four young
things.—

17 They are out of the nest!

Three flutter and thrill on the nearest limb,
Trying to trust the “grown-ups” pledge
That they shall fly! One clings to the dim

Old nest’s worn edge.

They are soared, they are “told,” they are
“shown”--—-at length
One leaves the limb, with a “Do and
dare!”
Two follow. The shyest tries her strength!
They are all in the air!

“Oh, the bright New World. The brave
New World!
The broad New World! Oh, marvelous
day!”
Grace go with you, strong wings unfurled,
On your dauntless way!

Marvel of the Air

LESTER BANKS

AVIS QUINN, with exceptional knowl-

edge of birds, says that no other crea—
ture is so completely at home in the air as
the soot-colored, swallow-like swift. Feed.-
ing on the wing, he literally picks insects
out of the air at eighty miles an hour, a
mere cruising speed for this perhaps fast—
est of all feathered ﬂiers. It is said that in
migration the chimney swift can cover a
thousand miles a day. And there is no
hawk, not even the duck hawk himself, fast
enough to overtake this little fellow.

Not only will this cigar-shaped pigmy
actually challenge enemies like the pere-
grine to catch him, but even in the face of
thunder and lightning this master of the
sky will not quit his element. In fact, he
gets real pleasure out of riding a storm.
Only when he sleeps does he abandon the
heavens, to seek the inside of some great
hollow tree; there, alternating with day-
dozing bats, he roosts a few hours at night.
But'he is out again before the dawn, and
does not fold his wings again until the
nightfall.

Dead bodies of the Swifts have been found
on the ground withstiﬂ'ened wings spread
as in ﬂight. The bird dies as it lives,
ﬂying.

Of all the surprising attributes of the
swift, perhaps the most amazing is his
ability to adjust the focus of his eyes to
the comparatively stationary bugs of pin-
point size while he is going eighty or ninety
miles an hour. He scoops up and devours
the bugs without even slowing down. Fancy
yourselves traveling that fast in a car,
approaching a sparrow, training a binocu-
lar on the sparow, and having to accommo-
date the lenses! The sight of this bird,
along with that of the eagle, is so much
greater than yours and mine as to make
comparisons amusing.

The American Humane Association will
meet at Milwaukee, Wis., October 4—7.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 150

“Johnny” and “Jenny”
JOHN P. DINNENY

N impish bird to whose coming I look

forward every spring is the familiar
house wren. Facetiously, some one has
dubbed the two sexes “Johnny” and “Jenny.”
I like the personiﬁcation. It gives a feeling
of warmth and familiarity to our friend-
ship, not hemmed in by any haughty
formality.

Johnny doesn’t cut much ice in the Wren
household. True, it is he who gambols about
singing, perching, and generally enjoying
himself, but he must watch his step in
Jenny’s presence. Although not a singer
herself, she keeps herself well to the fore
by dint of continually fussing, working and
scolding. At times she even bears a strong
resemblance to Shakespeare’s “Shrew.” J en-
ny arbitrarily assumes the task of choosing
nesting-sites and settling all other domestic
details. I suSpect that she considers Johnny
a bit of a ne’er-do-well. If dissatisﬁed with
the arrangements she makes he can leave,
and sometimes does. But Jenny stays on,
not adverse to another matrimonial venture.

The home of Mr. and Mrs. Wren consists
of a dome-shaped mass of ferns, grass,
moss, lined with soft hair or feathers. It
is usually located in holes or boxes. They
eat bountifully of spiders, insects, larvae
and occasionally seeds. It is strongly sus—
pected that they are partial to eggs, with
the result that their presence is not highly
regarded in some places. Even though true,
I cannot condemn them very strongly.

One will never go into raptures at
Johnny’s or Jenny’s physical appearance.
They are small in size, almost tiny, colored
a dull brown with faint black markings, al-
together unimpressive. Their short cocked
tail helps to recognize them. Around the
barnyard they resemble a mouse disguised
in feathers. But in Jenny, particularly,
there is nothing mousey about her temper.
Aroused, she will “chit, chit, chit” very pug-
naciously, almost thrusting her arched bill
right into your face. Her cocky tail be-
comes more cocky, and you may be sure
of receiving the tongue lashing of your life.
I admire Jenny’s spunk, but am more in-
trigued by the beguilingly pleasant manner
in which she accepts a tasty tid-bit.

The Wren family keep themselves and
their home neat and clean. Though their
nesting-sites are usually vermin collectors,
none gather after Jenny cleans house.
While Johnny sings she works tirelessly.
To be sure he helps feed the young, which
job in itself is no small one. They fre-
quently rear three broods in a season.
Gentleman Johnny then has less time to
show off his song and cocky tail.

These are the things I prize
And hold of dearest worth:
Light of the sapphire skies,
Peace of the silent hills,
Shelter of forests, comfort of the grass,
Music of birds, murmur of little rills,
Shadows of clouds that swiftly pass.
And after showers the smell of flowers
And of the good, brown earth;
And best of all, along the way,
Friendship and mirth.

HENRY VAN DYKE

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

“King of the Orchard”

L. D. CHAPMAN

HE kingbird is one of the best friends
the farmer has in the bird family. Ar-
riving in the late spring, kingbirds immedi-
ately build their nests in the tallest trees
in the orchard, and from then till October
wage war on bugs and insects and maraud-
ing hawks and crows. Contrary to the
common belief, kingbirds never bother fruit
or grain.
For several years, a couple of pairs of
kingbirds had been building their nests in

 

 

 

 

A GOOD FRIEND OF THE FARMER

a large king apple tree in my orchard. It
was by far the tallest tree in the orchard,
and every spring when the birds returned
they sought the same tree as a nesting—
place, and, from then until late fall the
merry shriek of the kingbird was to be
heard every day.

In the early summer, I bought a couple
of hundred day-old chickens and when they
got to weigh about two pounds each a
hawk commenced to work on them. One day,
while I was eating dinner, I heard a great
racket in the orchard, and, rushing out, I
discovered a hawk trying to carry off one
of the chickens. He had it in his claws and
was up about twenty feet in the air when
four kingbirds tackled him, diving at him
and shrieking in fury. They made things
so lively for the hawk that at last in
despair, he dropped the chicken to the
ground and ﬂed in terror. The chicken was
not hurt very much and in a few days was
fully recovered.

All the rest of the summer, every time a
hawk or crow approached the place, it was
promptly tackled by the kingbirds which
quickly drove it away in full ﬂight. I am
convinced that every summer the kingbirds
saved me a good many dollars’ worth of
poultry by driving away marauding hawks
and crows.

The mission of the birds is one not only
of joy and music but of economic value.
Encourage them to stay in your locality.
Tide them over by providing for them in
times of emergency, and next season they
will pay you back.

Oct. 1937

Songs of the Birds

JASPER B. SINCLAIR

UST around our corner is a garden

with a stone tablet set in the middle of
the lawn. On this tablet is inscribed a
simple bit of verse:

“The kiss of the sun for pardon,
The song of the birds for mirth;
You are nearer God’s heart in a garden
Than anywhere else on earth”

There’s something almost of divine in-
spiration in so simple but eloquent a bit
of verse. Particularly in the line that tells
us, “The song of the birds for mirth.”

How near to perfection is that line, for
it seems to me there is no more mirthful,
no more joyously unrestrained a sound in
all the world than the song of the birds in
meadow, ﬁeld and woods. It is the voice of
nature, calling to the world in the purest
of tones and notes. Poets have written
about the song of the birds since litera-
ture’s earliest days, extolling the lyrical
qualities of these feathered singers. Izaak
Walt-on pays them one of the most beauti-
ful of all tributes:

“Another of my airy creatures breathes
such music out of her little instrumental
throat that it might make mankind to think
that miracles are not ceased. We might
well be lifted up above the earth and say,
Lord, what music hast Thou provided for
the saints in heaven, when Thou affordest
bad men such music on earth?”

Shelley praises the skylark’s musical song
with his well-remembered lines beginning
“Hail to thee,l blithe spirit!” Another
poet tells us that “The lark has sung his
carol in the sky,” while still another
bespeaks
“The thrush from his holly, the lark from

his cloud, .
Their chorus of rapture sang jovial and
loud.”

An old Scottish song assures us “I have
heard the mavis singing, his love-song to
the morn;” and another praises “Ye wild
whistling blackbirds.”

Songs and poems without number have
been written about the cheery notes of the
merry little robin and thrush, and the
more plaintive tones of the nightingale.

Someone remembered a seldom mentioned
bird in these lines:

“I was wrong about the phoebe bird, two
songs it has, and both of them I’ve heard;
I did not know those strains of joy and
sorrow came from one throat.”

Another poet welcomes the springtime
return of one of our bright little meadow
birds:

“Bobolink that in the meadow
Or beneath the orchard’s shadow
Keepest up a constant rattle,
Joyous as my children’s prattle,
Welcome to the North again.”

Byron in his “Prisoner of Chillon,” tells
about the voice beyond his imprisoned
casement:

“It was thecarol of a bird;
It ceased — and then it came again,
The sweetest song ear ever heard.”

Later, in that same verse, he describes it
as a “song that said a thousand things”;
and that is probably one of the most de-
scriptive of all attempts to analyze the
merry song of the birds. .

 

V; "Sui‘a‘

‘ ...a-....‘ :.-., ;e..;..;;'_¢f.$:;




 

Page 17!;
@112 iﬁanh nf mrrry

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary
E. A. MARYOTT, State Organizer
PLEDGE
I will try to be kind to all living creatures and
try to protect them from cruel usage.

The American Humane Education Society will send
to every person who forms a Band of Mercy of thirty
members, and sends the name chosen for the Band
and the name and post-ofﬁce address of the presi-
dent who has been duly elected, special Band of
Mercy literature and a gilt badge for the president.
See inside front cover for prices of literature and
Band of Mercy Supplies.

NEW BANDS OF MERCY

Three hundred and thirty-two new Bands
of Mercy were reported during September.
Of these, there were 217 in Illinois, 29 in
Georgia, 26 in Florida, 23 in Pennsylvania,
16 in North Carolina, 13 in Maine, seven in
Virginia and one in British West Indies.

Total number of Bands of Mercy organ-
ized by Parent American Society, 225,247.

Little Yellow Kitten

EDITH DAVIS ROWE

Little yellow kitten,
Kicked from place to place
Just because you’re homely
Both in form and face.

Starving little creature
Wandering everywhere,

Up and down the alleys
With a frightened stare.

Human beings passing

Up and down the street——
No one loves or pets you,

No one gives you meat.

Homeless, friendless kitty,
Wondering why your fate,
Plucky little orphan,
Try another gate.

Here there lives a lady,
She will take you in

Even though the neighbors
Think you mean and thin.

Here’s a home and kindness,
Food and shelter warm;
Happy little creature,
Safe from dogs and storm.

Foxes are among those animals mentioned
most frequently in the Old Testament and
were, evidently, numerous at that time.
Samson was wicked enough, when he burned
the Philistines’ corn, to catch three hundred
foxes, tie ﬁrebrands to their tails, and turn
them loose in the ﬁelds of grain.

Mules are ﬁrst mentioned in the twenty-
fourth verse of the thirty-sixth chapter of
Genesis. Until then they were unknown to
the Jewish tribes, who used asses for work
animals and, presumably, had never seen
horses. One of Zibeon’s sons, named Anah,
was feeding the domestic asses when he saw
these strange and new creatures and hur-
ried home to report his discovery. The
mules, breeding and living in the wilder-
ness, were probably attracted by the smell
of the asses’ food. , |

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

A Strange Vacation

CELIA I. HARVEY

RECENTLY I read of an old lady in
London who gave up all of her usual
vacation plans for the sake of touring the
various districts of the city, nights, to dis-
tribute food to stray cats. Always before
she had donated money to charity, but she
decided that the only real way to be sure
of what was done with it was to do it her-
self and, being partial to cats, she set out
to feed all the strays in the city.

She spent a lot of money buying milk,
minced beef and canned salmon, and did the
work herself. As she said, “It was the
only way you could be sure that the poor
cats were fed.”

I wish that something like that could be
started in many communities in this coun-
try, as it is a pitiable thing to see so many
of the erstwhile pets shunted out to shift
for themselves, especially during the win-
ter. A great many of them starve or
freeze to death in every city, and the hu-
mane societies are usually overworked. Just
one person can hardly take in all the strays
that come along.

The worst part of it is that the poor
cats have no way of knowing why they are
petted and made much of in the summer,
and put out to freeze and starve in cold
weather.

The Despised Crow

The crow proves a friend of man. An
army of locusts swarmed over northwest
Florida, not only eating every green thing
but stopping sports as well. A beautiful
golf course ‘was covered with the pests,
prohibiting playing. Suddenly, when men
did not know what they could do to ban-
ish these insects, an army of crows swooped
down on the golf course and soon cleared
it of the pests.

The little that birds eat can’t compare
with the damage done by insects that mul-
tiply rapidly when unmolested.

FRANK HAMPTON Fox

Quails ﬂy straight upward from the mead-
ow at dusk and keep in the air till they
ﬁnd their night roosting place; thus no
hungry prowlers may trail them.

 

A FOSTER MOTHER OF ORPHANS

Nov. 1937

Cat Adopts Baby Squirrels

L. D. CHAPMAN

HE mother instinct in some feline ani-

mals is strong enough to overcome
their antagonism toward what is usually
their natural prey. Several years ago, the
mother instinct was well demonstrated to
me by a cat which adopted a couple of baby
squirrels that were made orphans by me,
though not intentionally.»

One day in the late spring, I went into
the woodlot to cut 'a little more wood for
my summer’s use. During the «course of the
day, I came to a large beech tree that was
partly dead. Concluding it would make
good summer fuel, I felled the tree. When
it struck the ground it broke into about a
hundred pieces and, to my dismay, l dis-
covered it was the nesting place of a pair
of gray squirrels.

The parents and four baby squirrels
about two days old, were in the nest, and
the breaking of the tree killed both parents
and two of the babies. The other two were
apparently uninjured. At ﬁrst I decided to
put them out of their misery, then I hap-
pened to think of an old mother cat at
home who had three kittens that were born
the previous night.

Having little thought that the cat would
take to the squirrels, I took them home more
as an experiment than because I thought
she would adopt them. Disposing of two of
the kittens, I put the little squirrels in
their place and waited to see what the
cat’s reaction to the change might be. Old
Tabby smelled the baby squirrels all over,
then commenced washing them the same as
she did her kitten. To all appearances, she
might have been raising squirrels for years.

The squirrels thrived well with their
foster-mother, and in due time were able
to leave the nest and race about through
the near-by trees. They showed no inclina-
tion to leave, but continued to play with
their little foster—brother. Old Tabby and
the kitten, however, sometimes looked on in
dismay while the two squirrels were racing
through the treetops.

Sometimes as she looked on, Old Tabby
almost seemed to say, “What kind of chil-
dren have I raised, that they should act so
rowdyish?” Of course, as the squirrels got
old enough to eat, I had to feed them a
different diet than
the cats received,
but even after they
grew up, there was
never a sign of un--
friendliness among
them.

The squirrels lived
in the woods‘ned for
several years, but
ﬁnally one of them
was killed by a pass-
ing automobile and,
a few weeks later,
the other one wan-
dered away to near-
by woods. Sometimes
he would come back
to make us a short
visit, but he never

took up his abode
around the house
again.

 




 

Jan. 1937

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Page ’7

Feeding and Attracting Winter Birds

during the spring, summer and au—

tumn, much of the time roaming wher-
ever their fancies and appetites lead them.
The situation is different in Winter, because
they then must live where food is to be had.
Those that brave the cold and snow of De-
cember, January and February live where
they are able to ﬁnd food in abundance
and of the kind they like. Tree sparrows,
goldﬁnches and juncos roam from one patch
of weeds to another, frequent fence rows,
waste places and thickets, gleaning a living
of weed seeds. You will not ﬁnd them in
deep woods, close—cropped pastures, and
ﬁelds and meadows where there are no
weeds. The cardinal, cedar waxwing, robin-
and some other birds live where they are
sure of a supply of wild berries; the red-
headed woodpecker lives in oak groves,
where acorns are abundant; and the bob-
white frequents ﬁelds, pastures and open
woods, especially if these contain corn
shocks, waste grain, hay stacks, and oaks
or other nut trees.

Some birds—woodpeckers, creepers and
nuthatches—live entirely upon insects and
other small creatures they ﬁnd about the
trunks and branches of trees. Old, dead,
hollow and partly decayed trees and stubs
are better adapted to the needs of these
birds than young, healthy ones. Not long
ago the writer passed an old elm that had
a large hollow branch, and though it was
mid-winter, he found four species of birds
in its top, sputtering and quarreling for
possession of the old branch. All of them
wished to gain possession of it because it
would furnish them with sleeping quarters,
perhaps, and part or all of their food
supply. Only the birds knew how snug
the old, hollow branch was on a cold winter
night and what insects and other treasures
it held. Three of the birds habitually get
some, or a good share, of their food from
just such trees—the brown creeper, downy
woodpecker and Chickadee—and nest and
spend the nights in holes in them.

T HE birds lead an easy care—free life

 

WHITE-BREASTED NUTHATCH

ALVIN M. PETERSON
Photographs by the Author

Winter birds, then, are attracted by trees,
young healthy ones, to be sure, but also old,
hollow ones with dead tops and branches.
Actually, the older and more crippled a
tree, the better it is for attracting birds.
Trees, bushes and vines that produce ber—
ries, especially if the berries cling to them
until winter, are valuable; trees like the
hackberry and mountain ash and vines like
the wild grape and Virginia Creeper. Wood—
piles and places where wood is cut and split
are often visited, since most woods harbor
grubs, beetles, ants and other creatures that
fall to the ground when the cutting and
splitting is done. Sheltered nooks about
buildings, garbage cans, corn shocks, straw—
and hay-stacks, thickets, wind-breaks and
hedges also are inspected. Bare spots of
ground attract many birds in winter, be-
cause there they are able to ﬁnd weed s'eeds,
acorns and other food. Tall plants like
corn stalks, sunflowers, mullein and lamb’s—
quarters yield many a meal. And a dis-
carded Christmas tree set in the snow and
provided with dainties will not be over—
looked. It follows, then, that shoveling the
snow from a patch of ground, and keeping
it supplied with food, planting trees, bushes,
vines and sunﬂowers, and retaining and not
trimming your old trees too carefully, are
all effective ways of attracting winter birds.

However, the most popular way of
attracting winter birds is to make and set
out food trays, shelves and shelters for
them. Some birds live almost entirely on
weed seeds in winter, while others live on
animal foods. The junco and tree sparrow
are good examples of the former, and the
downy woodpecker and nuthatch of the lat—
ter. Offer the former rolled oats, bread
crumbs, seeds and cracked grain, and the
latter suet and meat scraps. Without a
doubt the best foods to offer winter birds
are suet and oatmeal, because both are cheap,
easily secured and nourishing. You can
keep large numbers of birds happy and con—
tented all winter long by seeing that they
are well supplied with these simple foods.

However, the birds are not hard to please
and may be offered almost anything we
have at hand for which we have no other
use.

There are many devices, some elaborate,
others simple, which may be made and set
out for feeding the birds, but a simple food
tray is all that is required. Secure a board
a foot square, nail pieces of lath about it
for a rim, fasten a. suet stick ten inches
long to one corner, and you have a service-
able food tray. This tray may be fastened
to a window—ledge, the top of a post, or the
branch of a tree. Spread the rolled oats
on the tray. The suet may be ground or
crumbled and mixed with the rolled oats, or
a large piece may be tied securely to the
suet stick or enclosed in a wire mesh.

In the Hospital

Because on the branch that is tapping my
pane
A sun—wakened leaf-bud, uncurled,
Is bursting its rusty brown sheathing in
twain,
I know there is Spring in the world.

Because through the sky-patch whose azure
and white
My window frames all the: day long
A yellowbird dips in a billow of flight,
I know there is Song.

Because even here in this Mansion of Woe
Where creep the dull hours, leaden-shod,

Compassion and Tenderness aid me, I know
There is God.

ARTHUR GUITERMAN in “Death and General
Putnam”

“I can say three things of Lord Rosebery,”
says Mr. Gladstone. “First, he is one of
the ablest men I have known; second, he is
of the highest honor and probity; third, I
do not know whether he really has common
sense.”

 

BLACK-CAPPED CHICKADEE

 




 

 

l , . -. .- - . "; ‘. 5 ‘. ‘v '33“: - ;‘>,“‘.<
4A . .-,, 15' o' O, .1. ;< " < cl; , ._ «r ‘.
I; 9‘. . —_ ‘t. .x - , .._ ., ..l_ . .. , ‘
. r a. . . -, ‘ . ,
«.429.an " “-31“

K
tats-’1' .. .

 

‘. ”has: -’ -' - A.

' 1‘. :;_;;;;." as. tep- m ... . .. gmw

1%we8

Our Dumb Animals

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston Ofﬁce: 180 Longwood Av-
enue, Boston, Mass., to which all communications
should be addressed.

Dr. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON, Editor

WILLIAM M. MORRILL, Assistant

JANUARY 1937

FOR TERMS, see back cover.

AGENTS to take orders for Our Dumb Animals are
wanted everywhere. Liberal commissions are offered.

EDITORS of all periodicals who receive this pub-
lication this month are invited to reprint any of the
articles with or without credit.

MANUSCRIPTS relating to animals, particularly
prose articles of about three hundred words, are solic-
ited. We do not wish to consider prose manuscripts
longer than 800 words nor verse in excess of thirty-
six lines. The shorter the better. All manuscripts
should be typewritten and an addressed envelope with
full return postage enclosed with each offering.

 

 

 

 

Christmas Toys

T is greatly encouraging to see that in

the leading department stores in Boston
there is scarcely any mention of lead sol-
diers, guns, cannon and other toys suggest—
ing war. The emphasis in the advertising,
so far as we have discovered, is entirely
upon games, musical instruments and other
attractive mechanical toys. The great Par-
ent Teacher Association and all other peace—
loving organizations will be glad to see their
protests against whatever might foster the
war spirit have not been in vain.

The Compartment Heart

Is there such a thing? We doubt it.
Can you have a part of your inmost self
shut up, locked and sealed against the cry
for help to lessen pain, or to make lighter
some weary load; and another part of your
real self where the door stands open wide
and out of which ﬂow love and sympathy
and all generous response to need? Isn’t
it true that if you are really generous and
kind you are bound to show it in all you
do?

Who contribute to the work of our two
Societies? Oh, not just the people who are
fond of animals. With scarcely an excep-
tion the names of those who give to us you
will ﬁnd among the lists contributing to the
needs of little children, the sick, the blind,
the aged, the deaf, the crippled. When one
says, “I have no money for animals, I’m
interested in children,” it’s pretty safe to
say that the children fare none too well
at the hands of such.

The Big Game Hunter

A native of Africa, among those with
whom David Livingstone live-d and worked,
once said of the big game hunter, “Have
these hunters, who come from so far and
work so hard, no meat at home? Why,
these men are rich and could slaughter
oxen every day of their lives. And yet they
come here and endure so much thirst for the
sake of this dry meat, none of which is equal
to beeff’

It seemed strange to these natives that
anyone should want to kill animals unless
he needed their meat for food.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Dog Racing in Florida

HE county of Volusia in that State

gave this so—called sport in a recent
election a very black eye. Dog racing means,
above all else, the opportunity to gamble.
The vote in the County showed 5,717 votes
against and only 2,119 for it. Only ﬁve
small precincts favored the wretched busi-
ness. Wholly apart from the cruelties in—
volved in the training of the racing dogs,
these gambling places draw hundreds of
thousands of dollars, mostly from working
people, as they are generally held at night
when so many at work through the day are
able to attend.

Intuition of Animals

From Le Defenseur des Animaux, Paris,
we take the following:

“The British Medical Association, with
headquarters at Oxford, has just had a
communication from Sir Henry T. Holland,
Chief of the Missionary Hospital of Queta,
relative to the phenomenal intuition ob—
served in dogs just preceding an earth-
quake which ruined that city. It says the
dog of an ofﬁcer awakened him by furious
barking 32 minutes before the catastrophe
happened and drew him to the garden just
as his house collapsed. Two other dogs did
the same thing, really pulling their masters
out of bed.”

Many in this country will remember that
just preceding the earthquake some years
ago in Charleston, South Carolina, the
horses became greatly excited, even so rear-
ing in their stables as to place their feet
in their mangers.

The Birthday Present—a Gun

And this is what it meant:

Robert Reilly, 4, of Longwood street place,
Charlestown, died last night at the Hay-
market Relief Hospital after he had been
shot accidentally by his uncle, William Han—
son, 14, of the same address.

The two boys were in the cellar of their
home shooting at cardboard boxes with a
.22 calibre shotgun given Hanson on his
birthday three months ago. The gun went
off accidentally and young Reilly was shot
in the forehead.

The 14—year—old uncle took fright after
the accident and ran away, but he appeared
in tears at the hospital to ask after Reilly.
He was questioned by the police and let
go. ——The Boston Herald, Nov. 30, 1936

Retired Workers’ Fund

We are receiving gifts to the Ameri-
can Humane Education Society as a trust
fund, the interest to be used for the bene-
fit of field missionaries and others who have
spent their lives in promoting humane edu—
cation. Already several cases have come
to our attention and are being relieved in
this way.

We will welcome your contribution to this
fund. Please make checks payable to Treas-
urer, American Humane Education Society,
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, and specify
that the amount contributed is for the Hu—
mane Education Trust Fund.

Jan.1937

From an English Writer

71, Nassau Road, Barnes, S.W.13
4th November, 1936
Dear Sir:

I want to write and congratulate you
and the writer on the excellent article “How
to Meet Dogs,” by William H. Spence, in
the September number of Our Dumb Ani-
mals.

I have never before seen any advice
given to people on how to meet strange dogs,
and I think you may be interested to hear
my own experience in support of Mr.
Spence’s statement that “the woman was
evidently wise to dogs.”

I was once working on a farm in a wild
part of Dorset, and had to Visit a neighbor—
ing but isolated farm some eight miles dis—
tant, where I had never before been. On
opening the gate into the ﬁeld that led to
the house, six or seven large dogs rushed
upon me from all directions, barking loudly.
They looked formidable and I stood quite
still, and for perhaps half a minute, they
barked and leaped around me in a group.
I did not move my hands, but spoke softly,
and in a few seconds the note of the bark-
ing suddenly changed from the wild, rather
aggressive bark, to a more plaintive and
welcoming sound. This continued for a mo—
ment and they began to separate and run
back to the house still uttering this wel-
coming yap. I walked forward, and then
the woman of the house (whom I had never
met) opened the door and called to me, say-
ing, “I knew it must be a friend by the
change in the note of the dogs’ barking.”

This little incident proves once again
what Mr. Spence has said, that if ﬁerce
strange dogs can be shown by your actions
that you do not mean either aggression or
Violence to them or to property, they im-
mediately realize you are a person who
should be allowed to proceed.

I do not know whether your Society has
any handbill based on Mr. Spence’s article,
but I feel that it might be very useful in
country places if a short statement, perhaps
including my own experience, could be made
for use in outlying districts where many
dogs are kept.

Wishing every success to your excellent
paper,

Yours faithfully,
(MRS) SPEEDWELL MASSINGHAM

An Active Far-Eastern
Society

The Chosen S. P. C. A. has issued its
twelfth annual report, which occupies sev-
eral columns in the Seoul Press. Its record
is a highly creditable one. A brief sum-
mary of its past year’s work includes the
observance of a “Kindness to Animals Day”
on May 5, when tents were "erected in
suitable places and more than 300 horses
and oxen were treated by the assistance of
military farriers. Over 300 warnings, also,
were given to those who ill—treated their
animals. With the co-operation of the
police 5,747 persons were admonished, 442
warned, 18 ﬁned and 24 sent to prison. It
is the aim of this Society to organize
branches in all the cities of the Chosen pen-
insula.

 




 

-. . _;)g: my”, \
.. .. maﬁa, -3.“ -22.. ‘. 3..

Oct. 1937

OUR DUMB

Killdeer Neighbors

ALVIN M.

II

PETERSON

Photograph by the Author

 

NEST AND EGGS OF KILLDEER FOUND IN A CORNFIELD

H, dear, dear, dear, dear! Oh, dear,

dear, dear, dear!” The killdeer whose
nest I had just found was terribly upset.
She ran to a depression, squatted, spread
and ﬂapped her wings, and spread her
pretty tail. “Oh, dear, dear, dear, dear!
Oh, dear, dear, dear, dear! What a terrible
time I am having this morning. I never
saw the like before! Oh, dear, dear, dear,
dear!” The white tips and rusty, or red-
dish-brown, of her tail feathers could easily
be seen, for she was lying on the ground
less than a rod from me. Occasionally she
rolled over on her side, ﬂapping the oppo-
site wing, rolled over on the other side and
ﬂapped the other wing, saying “dee, dee,
dee” the while. Although the bird seemed
to be badly injured, she carefully kept an
eye on me and ran off a few steps when
I moved and there went through exactly
the same motions again. A killdeer will
repeat this ruse a dozen times if you follow
it for any distance. And sometimes both
birds of a pair will thus feign injury at
some distance from each other.

The nest was in the cornﬁeld, six feet
from a fallow piece of ground, where I had
vainly searched for it for two weeks. The
nest itself was only a depression in the
ploughed ground surrounded by a few corn
stalks. It held three eggs, though the next
day there were four.

The male was also in the immediate
neighborhood, sometimes running beside his
mate, more often ﬂying farther off and
“dee, dee-” and “kill-dee-ing” with all his
might.

We were cultivating and hoeing the corn,
and, before long, the mother became recon-
ciled to things and returned to her nest,
remaining there while the horse and culti-
vator passed within a few feet of her. I
decided to try to get a picture of her, so set
the camera beside the nest, intending to
operate the shutter with a string. Soon
she was back at the nest, and I walked
slowly towards the end of the string, notic-
ing that only her head showed and that she

was watching me carefully. She trotted off
before I reached the end of the string, and
I decided I’d need a longer thread. Soon,
however, the horse and driver came along
and she hurried to her eggs, while I as
hurriedly ran to the string and secured a
picture.

All told I took four pictures of her, al-
though for two of them I was obliged to
use a longer string. The four were all
secured while the horse and driver were
passing the nest and holding her attention
keeping it centered upon the horse, driver
and cultivator and diverting it from the
man who was sneaking about the ﬁeld,
trying to get near a long string that was
fastened to a queer black contraption stand-
ing beside her nest. She was not the least
bit afraid of the camera.

The four cream, or buff—colored, eggs are
heavily spotted and blotched with black and
large for the size of the bird. The young-
sters are precocious and follow the parents
about as soon as hatched. I sometimes
catch sight of one or more of them run-
ning about with a‘parent, the latter care-
fully watching and guarding them.

Yesterday, for example, I had an inter-
esting experience of this kind. I was cross-
ing the garden and ran across a killdeer
and her young. The mother ran into a
patch of corn with a youngster following
her. I followed, but the chick was soon
lost to view. No doubt it squatted beside a
hill of corn, or in a depression, and thus
eluded me. I stopped and soon heard a
faint “dee, dee” coming from the pasture
south of the garden. The notes were ut-
tered by a second youngster coming my
way. Occasionally it stopped and bobbed its
head in characteristic killdeer style though
it was only a few days old. I moved, and
the youngster turned and ran to the garden,
eventually taking refuge in some tall grass
along the north edge, where it squatted and
tried its best to hide. I picked it up, held it
a moment, then released it at the edge of
the corn, into which it ran and disappeared.

ANIMALS

Page 151

The mother meanwhile was greatly
alarmed, ﬂying about me, alighting on the
ground, squatting, ﬂapping her wings and
crying loudly, repeating the ruse a dozen
times or more. Evenutally I started off
across the ﬁeld to the east. The mother now
dropped to the ground and dissembled until
she reached the line fence forty rods off.
She now ﬂew back to the corn near the
garden, quickly made sure her young were
safe, then returned and kept an eye on me,
circling, calling and alighting on the
ground until I returned to the house and
yard, where, to all appearances, she ﬁgured
I belonged. The killdeer’s intelligence, or
cunning, is uncanny, unbelievable perhaps,
unless you have actually had it for a near
neighbor, seen much of it, and had some-
what similar experiences.

Prisoned Gull

LOUISE DARCY

I heard a sea gull cry

Clear across the water

And saw her straggling there,
White wings all stained with oil
And dragging by her side.
Close by, another gull

Wheeled low trying to free

The crippled bird from danger.
I knew that he would stay
Until his mate had died.

Orioles Foe to Insects
FERN BERRY

HE farmer, orchardist or city gar-

dener has no better helper than a
single pair of birds nesting about his place.
On May 15, 1987, a pair of Baltimore orioles
and a pair of orchard orioles arrived in a
small village orchard. These four birds "set
to work building nests. One, that of the
Baltimore orioles, was hung in a tall shade
tree over the bird fountain. The orchard
orioles built in a tall old fruit tree on the
far end of the lot.

The apple and cherry trees were coming
into the pre-pink stage and.the leaves were
like “squirrel ears.” The birds spent hours
each day working over the trees. From
branch to branch the brilliant orioles and
the more sombre mates would go over the
leaves and bud clusters in search of insects
or eggs.

As the blooms expanded and the foliage
grew into real leaves the birds continued
their search for food on the trees. It would
be impossible to estimate the number of
insects and eggs or larvae destroyed by
these four birds during the season. Later,
when the little birdlings were hatched and
had to be fed, the old birds increased their
activities.

The shade trees and shrubs were thor-
oughly gone over by the orioles, and the
wise gardener did not complain when he
found that the birds had punctured a few
of his cherries. Especially if water is not
available, they must have the cooling juice
from the fresh fruit.

Our readers are urged to clip from “Our
Dumb Animals” various articles and re-
quest their local editors to republish. Copies
so mutilated will be made good by us upon
application.

 

 

 

 




 

N 022. 1937

  
 

  
 

I

(\ H --
l ."J,."\'\\‘\’
ll [I

‘0

‘1

’ "f
f' ‘:
' l \ ' II
Id? \“ll 9"\\'n l ‘w "W
' ' f H\ “I n U
I \ |
l.‘ \',I l“',"||“'\ N" l "H". “‘5‘“,

u | I
- . | \
:‘l'!’$‘l' 3"" F?’ .

“a,

‘I‘- .. I"
\" g
HI 'v' \ ‘
I I O \ .
.‘Miyllu'l’.'\L\ l. ' , 3 ' . .

ll'

Welcome Guest

STELLA V. JONES

Little doggie,——here,

Come in from the storm,
I’ve a cozy ﬁre

It is nice and warm!

I will brush your coat
On this woolly rug,
And around your neck
I will steal a hug!

Let the rainfall turn
Into snow and sleet,
You’ll be nice and warm

Right here by my feet!

Family of Cats in Hollow Tree

ROY L. WARREN

C OZY kitchens are generally considered good places for
raising kittens, but at Goguac lake, Battle Creek, there’s
a stray, gray mother cat whose standards are somewhat dif-
ferent. She has a family of ﬁve tucked away high in the hollow
of a tree trunk.

She was house-hunting when she wandered across the Fred—
erick Benson’s summer place at Hobart’s Landing about a
month ago. And she had a big problem. She was expecting
youngsters, and they had to be put out of the reach of the
dogs. So her speciﬁcations for houses were pretty high—
literally.

The place she "found near the Benson’s cottage was noth—
ing short of perfect. It was an old oak tree, gnarled, scrawny,
and standing atop a bluff high over the shore. The lower half
of its trunk was as sound as a cast-iron post, but the higher
half was hollow.

There was a door about 15 feet above the ground, and the
two limbs that came together just outside formed as ﬁne a
front porch as a family of kittens could want. The place was
safe, too. High in the upper branches were emergency exits.

Today Tabby’s kittens are as husky as young house-cats, as
agile as young squirrels. They have not yet been down to the
mainland, but that doesn’t concern them much. There’s plenty
of room for fun and frolic among the branches of their oak
tree, and their ma is pretty good about bringing ﬁeld mice up
for supper every day.

Answers to “How Many ‘M’ Animals” puzzle last month(The

numbers after each name tell where the name can be started
and ended) :
Mandrill 1-6, marmot 31-35, marmoset 31-35, mare 31-20,
moose 36-30, mongoose 18-16, mole 1-14, marten 31-19, musk-
ox 1—34, musk-deer 1-27, mouse 1-16, mule 1-14, mink 18—22,
muskrat 1-25, monkey 18-10.

If you cannot take care of your cat, or the hungry cats in
your neighborhood, send for the agent of a Society for the Pre-
vention of Cruelty to Animals or of an Animal Rescue League,
to dispose of them humanely. A starved cat is not a good
mouser.

OUR DUMB

ANIMALS

 

 

Photo by Boller
THE JOY OF EVERY HEALTHY BOY

 

Bird Life Has Teacher and Preacher

FERN BERRY

“F you cannot go to church and you cannot go to school do
not grieve too much. Go to the woods for there you will ﬁnd
both an able teacher and a preacher. The bird life of Michi-
gan has two members of the professions. If you are walking
through the woods or in your orchard or grove and hear this
sermon over and over again you will know you are hearing
the preacher bird or red-eyed vireo, “You see it”—“You know
it”——“Do you hear me?”—“Don’t you believe it?” All of these
strains are uttered with a rising inﬂection at the close and
a pause as if waiting for an answer. The red-eyed vireo gets
its name from the fact that it actually has a red iris in its eye.
It is a common bird in the woods and orchards.

If you chance to be a teacher and you are walking in the
woods and hear the call, “Teacher, teacher, teacher, teacher,”
you may think for a moment that some of your pupils are
calling to you. Step carefully for you may be near the nest of
the ovenbird, or teacher bird as it is commonly called. This
bird builds a dome-shaped nest that really looks like an old-
fashioned brick oven. The door is through the side. You will
need sharp eyes to discover it.

This bird has an entirely different song that it sings oftenest
in night ﬂights. This song has been likened to the song of the
Old World Nightingale.

 

 




 

Feb. 1937

skill: “The eagle stirreth up her nest, flut-
tereth over her young, spreadeth abroad her
wings, taketh them, beareth them on her
wings.” Such, in brief, is a pictorial de-
scription of one of the most magnificent
sights in the bird world. In teaching their
offsprings the maneuvers of ﬂight the par—
ents exercise the greatest care, lest the
wing-strength of their nestlings be over—
taxed.

Many writers, composers, and painters
have portrayed in verse and prose, in music
score, and on canvas the wing—power, the
soaring-glory, and the air—dominion of the
Monarch of Motion. From a legion of lines
paying him tribute probably a fragment of
verse by Lord Tennyson proves the most
outstanding in point of colorful wording.
Excerpts from such a fragment are quoted
above, however the poem should be read in
its entirety, that larger appreciation may be
felt for the Englishman poet, as he de—
scribes the scenic background as well as the
precipitate ﬂight of the bird. Truly does
the very atmosphere of the “vast lone—
liness” of wild mountain heights permeate
the verse, while the marvelous flying prow-
ess of the “winged thunderbolt” is dra-
matically expressed.

In perfect co-ordination with the Tenny—
sonian description of wind-swept heights
and avian skill, is the musical setting of the
poem itself, as composed by Edward Mac—
Dowell, America’s master tone-poet. Not
only is such a musical paraphrase one of
the most effective examples of descriptive
music on record, but it is an eloquent per-
sonal tribute to the king of the air. The
score is short (only some twenty-six mea-
sures) ,. yet it is so dramatically virile in its
dynamic force, as to cause one to feel that
the composer surely must have scored his
theme with his eyes directly fastened on
the object. That his vision was steady and
his notation accurate one has but to hear,
or play, the composition—it is correctly
complete.

The eagle in action and in repose has
been placed on canvas with admirable skill.
A representative example of the bird in art
is to be found in the oil portraiture of
Gaudenzio Ferrari, Milanese painter of the
early school of Italian art. A word of mild
criticism might be voiced against minor
discrepancies found in the placing of feath-
er-clad legs: on the body of the bald eagle
by some of our younger school of artists.
The shanks of this bird in real life are bare
—the golden eagle wears the feather leg-
gings. It is presumed, however, that feath-
ers are thrown in ‘for good measure,” by
generous-minded draftsmen! '

Whether as the living personification of
freedom and power, a symbolized standard
of strength and courage, or whether found
in literature, music, and the decorative arts,
our bird air—brother is a superb and dy-
namic figure: the earth is his footstool, the
sky is his throne.

If we remember rightly, it was Theodore
Parker who said, “If Ellery Channing tells
me a book is good I know I have a day
longer to live.”

In making your will, please remember
the Massachusetts Society for the Preven-
tion of Cruelty to Animals.

 

OUR DUMB

Squirrels in Winter
ELLA M. FOLEY

NE day last winter while driving

through the park I noticed a num-
ber of lean, gray squirrels running along
the crusted surface of the snow. I began
to wonder how these small creatures would
ever be able to get at their food supplies
buried in the ground beneath this frozen
blanket. I stopped the car and instantly
one of the little fellows either less timid
or more desperate than the others, ven-
ture-d up to within a few feet of the run-
ning board and, sitting back on his
haunches, eyed me expectantly. Having
nothing to give him I regretfully drove
away but the following day, armed with
a bag of walnuts, pecans and ﬁlberts, I
returned and sought out the clump of
trees in which I believed these little crea—
tures lived.

The place seemed deserted and the air
was intensely cold, so after making sev-
eral ineffectual attempts to summon these
little tree—dwellers to the banquet table I
decided to scatter a fewhandfuls of nuts
on. the ground in the hope that they would
discover them. I began to do so but hard—
ly had the ﬁrst few nuts gone rolling
across the frozen snow when all around
me I heard a scratching and a scraping
and down from the trees came pouring
a veritable horde of hungry squirrels.

For the next half—hour the place was a
scene of noisy and excited activity with
little, gray streaks racing up and down
the trees and churning up the snow as
they darted hither and yon across its
white expanse, all to the accompaniment
of a continuous cracking, crunching and
chattering. Pouncing upon the clusters
of nuts, each squirrel would seize one in
his forepaws, ﬁx it securely between his
teeth, then scurry up a tree to a comfort-
able resting—place where he would proceed
to do justice to the delicate morsel. After
having devoured a quantity of nuts with
great relish, they proceeded to carry the
rest away for storage in secret hiding
places. Each squirrel, apparently, had
his own private cache-s and some of them
were at a distance. One little fellow
would race for fully ﬁfty yards, a nut
ﬁrmly clenched between. his teeth, then
stop and peer warily about him before
darting behind a huge tree. Evidently
he had a secret hole in or about that tree.
Many of them buried their nuts in the
snow, each nut in a different place. I
watched one sly, old fellow dig seven or
eight holes in widely separated spots and
then carefully :rake the snow over his
treasures. He was not going to put all
his eggs in one basket.

On this ocasion I managed to coax a
few of my furry friends to take a- nut
from my fingers but the rest, after ven—
turing near, were overcome with timidity.

During the remainder of the winter I
made it a practice to visit this spot at
least once a week, and my arrival with
the crackly bag was always noted. Be-
fore I would have a chance to even open
it, the squirrels would be clustered around
me, squatting on their haunches, eager for
the feast they knew was at hand. As
we became better acquainted they would

ANIMALS

 

Page 29

take the nuts from my hand and would
even crawl upon, my lap to get at the
contents of the bag. Occasionally, they
quarreled and chased one another, but I
believe these misunderstandings arose
whenever one squirrel felt that a com-
panion had designs on a particular nut
which he regarded as his personal prop-
erty.

I look back upon, the time I Spent last
winter with my little, furry friends as
a series of most enjoyable afternoons and
I look forward to seeing them again—as
I know they will be looking for me—
when the ground is frozen and the food
is scarce.

Lo, the Poor Skunk

FERN BERRY

Mother Nature made the skunk a fear—
less animal. He need not turn away from
the pathway of his foes for he is equipped
with a powerful weapon, more dreaded
than claws, fangs or strength, by the
other and larger animals and birds of
prey. Even man has a great respect for
the skunk. Ages of this fearlessness has
made the skunk bold. He does not turn
aside. But—there is one thing that fears
not the weapon of the skunk. For this
reason the roadside is scattered with the
poor slaughtered animals. This terrible
roaring monster with blinding lights and
speeding wheels does not turn out for
the little striped animals walking so
proudly and with unconcern along the
roadway.

In another generation the skunk may
learn that he must keep out of the way
of the speeding motor car. Unless he does
learn this lesson he will be the loser.

Humane Sunday, April 11; Be Kind to
Animals Week, April 12—17, 1937.

 

WHO SAYS ANIMALS DON’T LAUGH?
THIS LITTLE COYOTE CERTAINLY
HAS A SENSE OF HUMOR!

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

Page 1’76

 

IN THE EDITOR’S LIBRARY

OUR ANIMAL BOOKS, a series in Hu—
mane Education, edited by Frances E.
Clarke. Seven volumes, for kindergarten
and through Grade VI.

PRIMER, FUZZY TAIL, Arensa Sonder-
gaard. 139 pp. 72 cents, net. . ‘

BOOK I. SNIFF, James S. and Martha
Kelly Tippett. 190 pp. 80 cents, net.

BOOK II. PETS AND FRIENDS, Em-
ma A. MYERS. 192 pp. 84 cents, net.

BOOK III. THE PET CLUB, Kathrine
W. Masters. 230 pp. 92 cents, net.

BOOK IV. ON CHARLIE CLARKE’S
FARM, Katharine L. Keelor. 202 pp. '72
cents, net.

BOOK V. OUR TOWN AND CITY ANI-
MALS, Frances E. Clarke and Katharine L.
Keelor. 224 pp. 76 cents, net.

BOOK VI. PATHS TO CONSERVA-
TION, James S. Tippett. 311 pp. 88 cents,
net.

Leaders in humane education everywhere
will thank Miss Frances E. Clarke, long
prominent as director for the American
S. P. C. A., New York City, and as author
and teacher, for this signal contribution to
a literature that has been sadly needed for
many years. No longer need we ask, What
have we for text—book or reader that we can
put in the lower grades of our .schools .to
eﬂ’ectively teach humane education? MISS
Clarke has made a deﬁnite, painstaking, and,
we doubt not, successful effort to solve this
problem by sponsoring this series of read--
ers. With rare judgment she selected as
authors of the different books teachers of
wide experience and with the tact to pre—
sent their subjects in an entertaining as
well as instructive manner. The volumes
meet all basal reader requirements, being
strictly up to date in method of reading.
Fortunately, publishers were found who
entered sympathetically into the task of
making a series of books that will delight
every child into whose hands they may fall.
Every one of them has a quantity of colored
illustrations, more numerous, naturally, for
the lower grades. All have attractive cov-
ers with animals in color. No expense has
been spared in typography, paper or
binding.

The Primer, by a pre-school teacher in
Columbia University, gives the story of a
kitten from which the child learns how to
feed, handle and play properly with his
own pet kitten. “Sniff” is a somewhat more
advanced story, this time of a dog, with
useful hints on feeding, housing, exercis—
ing, and training of dogs. ‘ “Pets and
Friends” presents charming stories of chil-
dren and their animal friends which de-
velop in the pupil a realization of his own
responsibilities towards animals. “The Pet
Club” brings out in story form the care and
consideration to be given to animals used
for instruction purposes in elementary class-
rooms. “On Charlie Clarke’s Farm” gives
the experiences of a city-bred boy and his
family and friends on a farm, with a con—
tinuous teaching of the principles of humane
education. Part II deals with the care of
the various farm animals. In “Our Town
and City Animals” Miss Clarke collabo—
rates with Miss Keelor, director of a country
day school in Connecticut, in the keynote
book of the series. Here a ﬁfth-grade class
form themselves into a Junior S. P. C. A.
club to help protect the animals of their
City. Here the aim is to develop the proper
attitude towards horses, dogs, cats, and
pets in general.

“Paths to Conservation” should be adopted
as a textbook in all our schools. Ever since
the late Dr. William T. Hornaday, to whom
a chapter is devoted, courageously and

 

OUR DUMB g» ANIMALS

 

YOUNG SCREECH OWL

 

persistently warned of the wastefulness of
wild life and the complete extinction of
many species of birds and mammals, it is
to the schools that we must look to educate
the rising generation in the necessity of
conservation. How to protect the wild life
that remains; how to maintain and to in-
crease it, when possible, for the beneﬁts of
a future generation are questions which
ought to engage the mind of every true
American. “Paths to Conservation” tells
how it can be done.

The series is published by D. C. Heath &
Company, Boston, New York, Chicago, At-
lanta, San Francisco, Dallas, and London.
Readers who wish to own copies of this re-
markable humane education series should
send for them direct to the publishers, at
the nearest address given here, enclosing
prices as shown above, plus postage.

Retired Workers’ Fund

We are receiving gifts to the American
Humane Education Society as a trust fund,
the interest to be used for the beneﬁt
of ﬁeld missionaries and others who have
spent their lives in promoting humane edu-
cation. Already several cases have Come
to our attention and are being relieved in
this way. We will welcome your contribu-
tion to this fund.

The mocking-bird, contrary to popular be-
lief, is one of the bravest and ﬁercest of all
feathered ﬁghters. It does not hesitate to
attack larger birds, animals, and even hu—
man beings who go near its nest.

Nov.71937,

Diogenes of Insect World

ROBERT VAN DYCK

@N any warm summer or autumn night
you can, if you Will but look carefuly,
see one or more tiny phosphorescent points
of light moving slowly among the blades
of grass in your lawn, on the leaf of a plant
or on the sidewalk itself. In fact you might
even ﬁnd one crawling on your trouser leg
after walking through high grass. b

Now if you investigate closely you will
see that this tiny point of light is in reality
given out by a small, worm-like creature
about one-half inch in length with about
the thickness of a straight pin and dark
green in color. It is a glowworm.

This little creature can do something
which man thus far has not been able to
do—give light without heat. Beyond the
fact that this phosphorescence is due to
chemical action the light is but little under-
stood. Yet the light of the glowworm is
the most perfect light known or conceiv-
able as there is no noticeable consumption
of light-producing material.

It is most interesting to study this little

creature as he travels through the dark

night, lighting his own way. Perhaps, like
Diogenes, who walked through the streets
of Athens with a light searching for an

- honest man, this little fellow looks for an

honest worm.

Our readers are urged to clip from “Our
Dumb Animals” various articles and re-
quest their local editors to republish. Copies
so mutilated will be made good by us upon
application.

Our Dumb Animals

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, ‘46 Central Street, Norwood,

Massachusetts. Boston Ofﬁce: 180 Longwood Av-
nue. "

 

 

 

Address all communications to Boston.‘

TERMS

One dollar per year. Postage free to any part of

the world.

All dollar subscriptions sent direct to the ofﬁce en-

title the sender to membership in either of our two
Soc1eties.

RATES OF MEMBERSHIP IN

THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
OR THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.

Active Life . $100 00 Active Annual $10 00

Associate Life 50 00 Associate Annual 5 00

Sustaining 20 00 Annual 1 00
Children’s $0.75

Checks and other payments may be sent to ALBERT
B. £OLLARD’ Treasurer, 180 Longwood Avenue,
os 11.

Manuscripts should be addressed to the Editor, 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston.

 

by it.

 

TO OUR FRIENDS

In making your will, kindly bear in mind that the corporate title of our Society is
“The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals”; that it is the
second incorporated (March, 1868) Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals
in the country, and that it has no connection with any other similar Society-

Any bequest especially intended for the beneﬁt of the Angell Memorial Animal
Hospital should, nevertheless, be made to The Massachusetts Society for the Preven-
tion of Cruelty to Animals “for the use of the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital,” as
the Hospital is not incorporated but is the property of that Society and is conducted

FORM OF BEQUEST
I give to The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (or
to the American Humane Education Society), the sum of ..................
dollars (or, if other property, describe the property).

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

May, 1937

The Other Shepherd

SILENCE BUCK BE‘LLOWS

When glory burst upon Judea’s hills,

When trembling shepherds saw the star—
strewn sky

Riven by angel ﬁgures, heard the song

Of angel voices on the vibrant air;

When, at the sweet behest, they took their
way

Down to the quiet plains of Bethlehem,

Found the low stable brooded by the star

And stood in awe before the new—born
King—

I like to think that one was left behind

Upon the rocky hillside in the night,

To watch the patient sheep and helpless
lambs,

Huddled and silent on the wintry ground.

His brethren saw the manger and the star,

The Mother, lovely' in. her tender joy,

The strange, tall kings, who laid their costly
gifts

Humbly before the sorrow-destined Child.

And he? He saw the grasses on the hill

Bending to hearken to the wind’s low song,

The blue, far reaches of the quiet night,

And trusting creatures, needful of his care.

I think that he was glad and proud to keep

The mandate of the ages: Feed my sheep.

Bear Retrieves Purse

The following from the M ail—N ews of Los
Gatos, California, is vouched for by a corre-

spondent who is personally acquainted with
Dr. Harder:

This is a bear, or a bear of a story, just as
you like to have it.

Dr. William Harder, who passed his holi-
day week—end in the Yosemite Valley, where
he practiced his profession for some length
of time before coming to Los Gatos, is
responsible for the details reaching here.

As everybody knows and especially Dr.
Harder, who treated more than 200 bear
bites and bear scratches while in the valley,
bears are as common there as blackbirds.

“They say dogs do almost human acts,”
began Dr. Harder yesterday, “and I guess
they do, but we saw something in the valley
which puts the bear in the dog class for
intelligence. A couple of weeks before this
happened a woman in one of the camps lost
her purse, with a little change in it together
with a powder puff and a few other trinkets
women use to keep their beauty. Just how
or where she lost it she had no idea. Any—
way, it was gone.

“The day we arrived in the valley she got
back her hand luggage, and who do you
suppose found it? One of the bears, who
evidently found it on one of the trails. Not
only did the bear ﬁnd it, but he walked into
camp with the purse hanging from his teeth,
and Mr. Bear delivered the purse on the
veranda of the house.

“When the bear came marching into camp
with the bag suspended from his teeth it
gave the campers a thrill.”

Dr. Harder said the reason for so many
bear bites and scratches was because the
campers insist on teasing the animals, and
the bears strike back.

Please remember the Massachusetts S.
P. C. A. in your will.

OUR DUMB

ANIMALS

Page 77

 

AT ATKINSON SHEEP FARM, SUDBURY, MASS.

 

Its Fleece Was White as Snow

ALETHA M. BONNER

The Mary’s lamb of childish rhyme
(Long since a sheep full grown),

Through constancy to Mary gained
A name that is world known.

OWN the living age, lambs have been
D linked with purity, innocence and

play. Of course, there have been
“black sheep” in every ﬂock, and it is quite
likely that the “wanderers” from the fold
of “Mary’s” ﬁction-sister, “Little Bo—Peep,”
belonged in this questionable class!

Putting aside nursery-rhyme pleasantries,
and pursuing the ﬂeecy ﬂocks through page-s
of history, we ﬁnd. that the domestication of
sheep occurred at an early date. In- their
wild state the creatures were ﬁerce and ven-
turous; while the domesticated animals are
docile and cautious.

From Asia came the ﬁrst sheep tribes,
this country being the home of the large
“Marco Polo” type—an animal named for
the Venetian merchant of thirteenth cen—
tury fame, whose extensive journeys in the
East brought to the historic page many of
the wonders of the, at that time, little-
known land.

In Asia many wild breeds roamed the
mountain ranges and plateaus, some wear—
ing a bluish coat, and having stout out-
curving horns, somewhat resembling the
goat. America, too, had a wild breed—those
in the Rocky Mountain regions, and because
of their massive head appendages, they
were given the name of “Big Horn.”

Originally sheep were tamed for burden—
bearers, as well as for their milk and ﬂeece.
Cross—breeding and climatic change wrought
with the passing years a great improvement
in the life of the animals, as well—developed
herds found pleasant pastures in the broad
ﬁelds of the world.

In Biblical times the sheep-herder lived a
nomadic life, as it was necessary for him
to move from place to place seeking fresh
pasture lands for his ﬂocks. There were
grave hazards in tending herds in those
days—ravages from wild beasts, raids by
alien tribesmen—hence the faithful shep-
herd’s work in guarding his ﬂock from
harm has been beautifully symbolized in the
religious world.

The most distinctive characteristic of
sheep is the herd instinct; and. a “follow-
the—leader” complex is the predominating
force in a ﬂock, for if one sheep pioneers
a movement the rest are sure to fall in
line; Insomnia sufferers make humorous
testimony to the fact that if they can suc-
ceed in mentally corralling a ﬂock of sheep,
and then have the animals jump over a
low brain—wired fence, by counting the par-
ticipants in this slow—motioned, head—to—tail
procession, they (the sleepless ones) are
lulled to slumbers!

With further reference to “Mary’s
Lamb,” though its fabled ﬂeece might have
been as white as snow, in real life the
sheep’s coat rarely approaches that color,
on account of the accumulation of dust and
grease in the wool; hence a yellowish cream
is nearer the standard shade.

Apropos the subject of yellow ﬂeece, lov—
ers of mythology recall the story of the
intrepid Jason, hero of Greek. legend, who,
with his faithful Argonauts, sailed from
Greece to Colchis in quest of the. famous
“Golden Fleece,” which glittered in the
noonday sun, as it hung from the branches
of a sacred oak, guarded by a sleepless
dragonl

Flesh and blood animals of today possess
ﬂeeces of gold; at least, golden in point of
commercial value. In well—bred beasts three
distinct types of wool are found; such
being ﬁne—wool, medium, and long. Spanish
Merinos have proved the world’s best ﬁne—
wool sheep. From England came the long-
woollies, certain of these being Leicester,
Lincoln and Cotswold. Other breeds which
have won world—renown in wool output are
the Dorset Horn, the Shropshire, and the
Southdown.

According to a shepherd’s statement,
“sheep can make more different kinds of
noise than any animals that live”; they
cough, they wheeze, they whimper, while
the bleating of a tiny lamb closely resembles
a baby’s cry. The animals require wide
range of pasture, as has been mentioned,
also grain and hay are needful items of
food. If one wishes a yard to be quickly
and closely cropped of grass, a ﬂock of
sheep will prove an effective lawn—mower.

M.
w» , mm

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

Page 10

    

GLORY TO
GOD,
PEACE ON EARTH,
KINDNESS, JUSTICE
AND MERCY T0
" EVERY LIVING
CREATURE.

   
       
   
 

Founded by Geo. T. Angell

For rates of membership in both of our Societies
see back cover. Checks should be made payable to
Treasurer.

Incorporated 1889

Ofﬁcers of the American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustee-s of Permanent Funds
JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First
Boston Corporation
CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President, United Shoe
Machinery Corporation
PHILIP STOCKTON, President, First National Bank of
Boston

Foreign Corresponding Representatives

George B. Duff ................... Australia

Luis Pareja Cornejo ............... Ecuador

Charles A. Williams .............. France

Leonard T. Hawksley ............. Italy

Mrs. Mary P. E. Nitobe .......... Japan

Mrs. Marie C. E. Houghton ....... Madeira

Dr. A. T. Ishkanian .............. Mexico

Luther Parker .................... Philippine Islands
Joaquin Julia ..................... Spain

Mrs. Alice W. Manning ........... Turkey

Humane Press Bureau

Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke, Secretary
180 Longwood Ave., Boston

Field Workers of the Society

Mrs. Alice L. Park, Palo Alto, California
Mrs. Rachel C. Hogue, San Diego, California.
Mrs. Jennie R. Nichols, Tacoma, Washington
James D. Burton, Harriman, Tennessee
Mrs. Katherine Weathersbee, Atlanta, Georgia
Rev. F. Rivers Barnwell, Fort Worth, Texas
Miss Blanche Finley, Richmond, Virgina
Rev. John W. Lemon, Ark, Virginia

Miss Lucia F. Gilbert, Boston, Massachusetts
Mrs. Jennie R. Toomim, Chicago, Illinois
Seymour Carroll, Columbia, South Carolina
Rev. R. E. Griffith, De Land, Florida

Field Representative
Wm. F. H. Wentzel, M. 8., Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

Field Lecturer in Massachusetts
Ella A. Maryott

SUMMARY OF ACTIVITIES OF FIELD
WORKERS FOR NOVEMBER, 1936

Number of Bands of Mercy formed, 735
Number of addresses made, 382

Number of persons in audiences, 62,195

Safe Annuity Bond 3

HE Annuity Bonds of our two Soci—

eties are absolutely safe and yield a
return according to one’s age. They make
their appeal ordinarily to people over 40
years of age. Send the coupon for a free
folder which gives full details.
The Massachusetts S. P. C. A. (or)
The American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Ave., Boston, Mass.

Without obligation to me, please send me
the folder about your Annuity Bonds.
Name
Age
Address

.. 9 . Si... Tsﬁib‘n‘ " N 5 ”FIJRIL" w 7':*‘*”‘ "—2-: ._..:_... ~~;-'~<~---‘ ... — W m ~— *7 ,

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Annual Poster Contest

,N entirely new and original design,

showing a child and an animal, on a
shield bordered with red, characterizes the
new bronze medals being manufactured ex-
clusively for prizes in the annual school
poster contest of the Massachusetts S. P.
C. A. Medals with blue ribbons are of—
fered as ﬁrst prizes; those with red rib-
bons, as second prize-s; and annual subscrip-
tion to Our Dumb Animals for honorable
mention. That these prizes are distributed
liberally through all the competing schools
is proved by the fact that last season, when
7,172 posters were entered by pupils repre-
senting 520 schools in 176 different cities
and towns, there were 1,040 ﬁrst awards,
1,142 second, and 1,868 honorable mentions.

1. The contest is open to pupils in gram-
mar grades above the third and in junior
high and high schools—both public and
parochial—in Massachusetts only, and
closes positively on March 20, 1986, results
to be announced during Be Kind to Animals
Week, April 12—17. During that week many
of the best of the posters will be on exhibi-
tion in the Fine Arts Department of the
Boston Public Library, Copley Square.

2. No more than five posters may be
submitted from any one room, and one only
from each pupil, teachers to make the se—
lection from all that are made under their
direction. '

8. Pencil or crayon,_ pen and ink, cut-
out paper (original, not magazine covers,
etc.), silhouette, water—colors or charcoal
may be used. Color adds greatly to the
effectiveness.

4. DRAWINGS, ON LIGHT CARD—
BOARD OR HEAVY PAPER, MAY BE
NOT LESS THAN 12 X 18 INCHES, NOR
MORE THAN 18 X 24 INCHES and
should be SHIPPED FLAT (never rolled),
all charges prepaid, to reach the MASSA—
CHUSETTS S. P. C. A. not later than
March 20, 1986. It will be to the advantage
of contestants to send posters as much ear-
lier than this as possible.

5. In the upper right—hand corner, on

the back of each poster, must be written
legibly the contestant’s name, WITH FULL
HOME ADDRESS, also number of the
grade, name and address of the school, and
name of the teacher. Use white ink or
paste a white slip with names and addresses
when dark cardboard or paper is used.

6. All posters receiving awards become
the property of the Society. Other posters
will be returned only if request is made at
time of sending and return postage enclos—
ed, or arrangements made to call.

7. Address all posters plainly, Secre—
tary, Massachusetts S. P. C. A., 180 Long-
wood Avenue, Boston.

More friends are needed to endow stalls
and new kennels in the Angell Memorial
Animal Hospital. Payments of thirty-ﬁve
dollars for a kennel or seventy-ﬁve dollars
for a stall will insure a suitable marker
inscribed with donor’s name. Terms of per-
manent endowment of free stalls and ken-
nels will be given upon application to the
Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, Boston, Mass.

Jan. 1937

Beloved One

JUDY VAN DER VEER

Three dogs there were and my horse,
And we all traveled far;

By the morning sun we set our course,
And by the evening star.

We followed long and lonely trails,
The land was sweet and wide . . .

And then the little golden dog
Whimpered once and died.

The little golden dog we loved,
Who danced in the sun;

Whimpered once and stretched herself . . .
Oh, beloved one!

The eager gypsy soul of her
Had strayed so far away,

We could not ﬁnd her should we search
Forever and a day.

I thought she must be grieving
Wherever she may be,

Longing for the other dogs,
The friendly horse and me.

And now when I am traveling
Along a lonely trail,

I dream a little golden dog,
With joyous wagging tail.

The while my heart is crying for
My beloved one,

I dream a little golden dog
Dancing in the sun!

American Fondouk, Fez

Report for October, 1936 —-— 31 Days

 

 

Daily average large animals 57.7
Forage for same ‘ $119.28
Put to sleep ' ' 86 28.85
Transportation 18.30

Daily average dogs *10.1
Forage for same 7.85
Wages, grooms, watchman and stable-boys 52.58
Superintendent’s salary 81.72
Veterinary’s salary 21.01
Motor ambulance upkeep 7.49
Motor bicycle upkeep 6.57
Sundries 46.59
Actual operating expenses $384.69
Building account 71.94
Building upkeep account 32.69
$489.32

Entries: 15 horses, 17 mules, 119 donkeys.

Exits: 6 horses, 6 mules, 66 donkeys.

Outpatients treated: 4 cats, 56 horses, 71 mules,
70 donkeys, 2. cows, 5 dogs.

Other fondouks visited: (70, all native fondouks).

SUPERINTENDENT’S NOTES: 342 cases investi-
gated, 7,829 animals seen, 1,209 animals treated, 70
animals transferred to fondouk Americain, 10 pack-
saddles (infected) destroyed.

*The Police Dept. of the Ville Nouvelle promise
deﬁnitely the New Pound by July 1, 1937.

ONE DAY’S WORK

Friday 16th. 7.30 Fondouk. Usual work of treating
animals. 9:00 Vet. visit. Dr. Bouguereau reported
all going on well. At my request he went to the
Police and made a complaint against the knacker
whose work is now too irregular. Every morning we
treat as outpatient the horse of the. Sultan’s uncle,
the Khalifa Sid e1 Mamoun, wounded on left hind leg.
Painters working at the roof and new operating stall.

2:30. Casbat ben Cebbab. Visited 7 stables,
inspected 53 animals, treated 18, sent one horse to
Hospital. Returned Fondouk by Tour de Fes. Police
of Bab Ftouh sent 1 mule and I donkey to Hospital.
Animals in Hospital: 60.

G. DELON, Superintendent

Please remember the American Humane
Education Society in your will.

 




 

Jan. 1937

 

Founded by Geo. T. Angell. Incorporated March, 1868

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds
JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First
Boston Corporation
CHARLES G. BANcROFT, Vice-President, United Shoe
Machinery Corporation
PHBILI: STOCKTON, President, First National Bank of
os on

Prosecuting Ofﬁcers in Boston
Telephone (Complaints, Ambulances) LongwoodGIOO
L. WILLARD WALKER, Chief Officer

HARRY L. ALLEN DAVID A. BOLTON
HARVEY R. FULLER HOWARD WILLAND

County Prosecuting Ofﬁcers
HERMAN N. DEAN, Boston
Middlesex, Norfolk and Plymouth
FRED T. VICKERS, Lynn Eastern Essex
WILLIAM W. HASWELL, Methuen Western Essex
FRED F. HALL, Springfield
Hampden, Hampshire and Franklin
ROBERT L. DYSON, Worcester Worcester
CHARLES E. BROWN, Attleboro Bristol
HAROLD G. ANDREWS, Hyannis
Barnstable, Dukes and Nantucket
T. KING HASWELL, Pittsfield Berkshire

Rest Farm for Horses and Small Animal Shelter,
Methuen

W. W. HASWELL, Superintendent

Taunton Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.—MRS.
HOWARD F. WOODWARD, Pres.; MRS. THOS. H. CAS-
WELL, Sec.

Women’s Auxiliary of the Mass. S. P. C. A., 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston—MRS. EDITH WASHBURN
CLARKE, Pres.; MRS. HARRY COLE, Treas.; MRS.
AGNIS P. FISHER, Ch. Work Com.

Springﬁeld Branch Auxiliary—MRS. DONALD C.
KIBBE, Pres.; MRS. HERBERT F. PAYNE, Treas. Second
Thursday.

Winchester Branch Auxiliary—MRS. RICHARD S.
TAYLOR, Pres.; MISS BESSIE SMALL, Treas. Second
Thursday.

Fitchburg Branch, Am. Humane Education Soc.—
MRS. EDITH WASHBURN CLARKE, Pres.; CAPT. WIL-
LIAM K. YOUNGLOVE, Treas.

MONTHLY REPORT OF SOCIETY
AND BRANCHES

Miles traveled by humane officers . . 15,523
Cases investigated ............. 411
Animals examined ............ 6,530
Animals placed in homes ....... 59
Lost animals restored to owners. . . 28
Number of prosecutions ......... 8
Number of convictions . . . . . . . . . . 4
Horses taken from work ......... 11
Horses humanely put to sleep . . . 55

Small animals humanely put to sleep 1,147
Stock-yards and Abattoirs

Animals inspected 71,046
Cattle, swine and sheep humanely
put to sleep .................. 28

The Massachusetts Society for the Pre-
vention of Cruelty to Animals has been
remembered in the wills of Bessie C. Niles
of Springﬁeld, and L. Waldo Smith of
Brookline.

December 8, 1936.

OUR DUMB

 

ANGELL MEMORIAL ANIMAL
HOSPITAL

and Dispensary for Animals
184 Longwood Avenue Telephone, Longwood 6100

Veterinarians

. DAILEY, v.M.D., Chief of Staﬁ‘
SCHNEIDER, v.M.D., Asst. Chief
. SCHROEDER, D.V.M.
. SCHNELLE, v.M.D.
. MUNSON, V.M.D.
. BLAKELY, v.M.D.

HARRY L. ALLEN, Superintendent

Springﬁeld Branch

53-57 Bliss Street, Springﬁeld, Mass.
Veterinarians
A. R. EVANS, v.M.D.
H. L. SMEAD, D.V.M.

oammwm
bowemn

 

 

 

HOSPITAL REPORT FOR NOVEMBER
Including Springﬁeld Branch

Hospital Dispensary
Cases entered 861 Cases 2,606
Dogs 692 Dogs 2,207
Cats 160 Cats 363
Birds 7 Birds 28
Horse 1 Goats 5
Rabbit 1 Horses 2

Rabbit 1

Operations 892
Hospital cases since opening, Mar.

 

1, 1915 ........................ 144,805
Dispensary Cases ................ 352,107
Total ................ 496,912

The Month in the Springﬁeld Branch
Cases entered in Hospital ............ 181
Cases entered in Dispensary .......... 512
Operations .......................... 176

Increase in Child Labor

The National Child Labor Committee re—
ports that few advances in the curbing of
employment of children through legislation
have been made, but the greatest tragedy
is the obtuse attitude of the American pub-
lic generally and its willingness to accept
and cover up the increased use of children
under 15 years of age in industry by blam-
ing it on better times.

“Bingo”

All lovers of dogs who know that for
them, as a rule, the fourteenth year is about
what the three score and ten means for the
masters of dogs will be interested to know
that “Bingo,” owned by Mr. and Mrs. Ed—
ward Power of Cambridge, Mass, lived to
be nearly 18 years of age, and up until very
nearly the end was in excellent health and
from friends and neighbors, including chil-
dren, received congratulations on his sev-
enteenth birthday.

‘0

The Sioux City, Iowa, Humane Society,
with its very excellent annual report, sends
out a blotter with these very clever lines:

“Be kind to all dumb animals,
And give the birds a crumb,

Be kind to human beings, too,
They’re sometimes rather dumb.”

In making your will, please remember
the Massachusetts Society for the Preven-
tion of Cruelty to Animals.

ANIMALS

Page 9

Another Successful Fair

NE Of the largest attended and most

successful Fairs yet held by the
Women’s Auxiliary of the Massachusetts S.
P. C. A. took place on Wednesday, December
2, at the Society’s building, 180 Longwood
Avenue, Boston. The entire second floor,
including all the executive ofﬁces, the mail—
ing room, and the spacious corridors, were
given over to the festive activities. There
were displays of alluring merchandise in an
atmosphere suggesting the approaching
holidays, with gaily decorated walls and
tables, with the lunch room at one end and
the popular bridge at the other end, side
entrances leading to the apartment of the
seeresses and to a veritable Noah’s Ark
where miniature animals were on sale.

Among the gift—laden tables were the fol-
lowing: Flowers: Mrs. Francis Carreiro,
chairman, Mrs. Albert T. Galpin, Mrs. Ed-
ward K. Bennett, and Mrs. Sally Hillman.
Candy: Mrs. Charles F. Rowley, chairman,
Miss Alice Rowley, Mrs. Esmond Rowley,
Mrs. A. L. Risley. Food: Mrs. Herbert Pres-
cott, chairman, Miss Marion Simpson, Mrs.
William W. Haswell. Miscellaneous: Mrs.
Alexandra Husbands, chairman, Mrs. Chris-
tine N. Walker, Mrs. Guy Richardson.
White Elephant: Mrs. Agnes P. Fisher,
chairman, Miss Effie M. Lynch.

The mid-day lunch, served to a large
number of the guests, was in charge of
Mrs. Charles C. Hoyt, assisted by Mrs. Wil-
lard C. Bliss, Mrs. Mitchell Allen, Miss
Wealthie Strauss and Miss Doris L. Green-
law. The afternoon bridge, which was so
largely attended that it required two large
rooms, was directed by Mrs. John J. Jen-
nings, assisted by Mrs. William J. McDon—
ald, Mrs. Albert Lind, Mrs. Edward K.
Bennett, Mrs. Sally Hillman, Mrs. David
Theall, Miss B. A. Bardin, Mrs. Edward
C. Brown, Mrs. A. T. Galpin, and Mrs. F.
H. Young. .

Afternoon tea was served to all, super-
vised by Mrs. Frank R. Fayerweather, as—
sisted by Mrs. George W. Bentley, J r., Miss
Eleanor Fayerweather and Mrs. Frank
Wilkinson. Among their helpers were Miss
Jean Carpenter, Miss Betty Scudder, Miss
Betty Firuski, Miss Sally Scudder, Miss
Betty Bell, Mrs. Trask H. Wilkinson, Miss
Katharine Day, Miss Betty Prescott, and
Miss Louise English.

The general decorations were in charge
of Mrs. John: A. Dykeman, the seeresses of
Mrs. Frank Towne, the “grab” of Mrs. W.
C. Bliss, and “Noah’s Ark” of Miss Ruth
Dailey.

Too much cannot be said of the effective
work of the president of the Auxiliary, Mrs.
Edith W'ashburn Clarke, who, recently re-
covered from a long illness, assumed the
duties of general chairman. She was ably
assisted by Mrs. Arthur W. Hurlburt, ﬁrst
Vice—president; Mrs. John A. Jennings, sec-
ond vice-president; Mrs. Willard C. Bliss,
recording secretary; Mrs. C. C. Hoyt, cor-
responding secretary; Mrs. Harry T. Cole,
treasurer; Mrs. Agnes P. Fisher, chairman
work committee; and Mrs. Charles Staniek,
chairman ways and means.

To all who participated in any way, in-
cluding the many friends who sent gifts or
cash contributions, the ofﬁcers of the Auxili-
ary wish to extend their sincere thanks.

 




 

Apr. 1937
In the Orchard

JUDY VAN DER VEER

Where the orchard trees are old
The sun laid down a bar of gold.

Doves were warming wings as gray
As clouds before the break of day.

The words they murmured in their throats
Were softly shaded minor notes.

A hunter came and shot down three,
Oh, it was sorrowful to see!

Sunlight is a lonesome thing
Without the spread of cloudy wing.

Plant a Living Garden
FERN BERRY

F you love the song of the migrant birds,

plant a bit of garden for them this
spring. You are probably getting out the
seed catalogues and thinking of the warm
days just ahead when you can plant a gar-
den. In that garden plant a goodly number
of sunﬂowers, both the large ones to form a
background and to furnish rich seeds for
the larger birds, such as. the cardinal and
bluejay during the coming winter, and the
smaller dwarf sizes. Marigold and callan-
dulas, hollyhocks and cosmos all furnish a
rich harvest of seeds after the blooms have
been allowed to go to seed on the stems.
These seed-laden plants will attract the
yellow warbler, goldﬁnch, indigo warbler,
chickadees, nuthatches, cardinals, sparrows
of many kinds, bluejays and woodpeckers
during the season from the maturing of
the seeds. to the warm days of the coming
spring when the seeds and the last insect
egg and bit of larva have been “cleaned up”
by the hungry birds. You will have an in-
teresting “living garden” if you plant these
ﬂowers and perhaps a few handfuls of mil-
let in an out-of-the-way corner.

In making your will, please remember
the Massachusetts Society for the Preven-
tion of Cruelty to Animals. Send to the
ofﬁce, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, for
free copy of report for 1936.

 

THE WINTER HOME OF THE BOB—WHITE NEIGHBORS

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Page 53

Bob-White Neighbors

II

ALVIN M. PETERSON

Photograph by the Author

qu-ently to be seen in the vicinity,

now perched in a tree where it had
a good view of its surroundings, now ﬂying
about the neighborhood in search of prey.
Eventually it stalked, killed and ate one of
our bob-whites. It no doubt got others also,
although I have positive proof of only one
tragedy. We had many bob—white neighbors
the next three winters also, though I have
nothing unusual to record, the birds roam—
ing about the thickets near the yard, the
oak grove, pasture and ﬁelds, gleaning a
living of weed seeds, waste grain and acorns
mainly.

The third week in January, 1936, the
weather turned unusually cold and stormy,
whereas up to that time it had been mild,
the thermometer on a few occasions regis—
tering ten degrees below zero but no more.
For ﬁve long weeks the weather remained
bitterly cold, the mercury on many days
sinking to twenty or more degrees below
zero. Late in January a bevy of bob-whites
began visiting the fence and grape trellis
east of the house in search of food. We
decided to help the birds if possible, so
shoveled the snow from a diagonal patch of
ground in the yard. One end of this was
near our east living-room windows, the
other near an evergreen near the grape
trellis. We shoveled the snow from beneath
the evergreen also, thus giving the birds a
place to hide and secure shelter from the
cold and wind. Upon the bare spot of
ground we threw corn, crumbs, suet and
acorns.

The next time the bob-whites visited the
yard they fed from the spot we had pre-
pared for them. Nor were they alone, for
a half—dozen blue jays came also, several
English sparrows, some juncos, a tree spar-
row and a cardinal.

February third it snowed all day, a light,
ﬂuffy snow. When the bob-whites came for
their evening meal, they sank so deeply in
the snow that only
their heads showed. To
make any headway
they were obliged to
fly and not walk or
run as they usually do.
Finally, one reached
the feeding spot, upon
which two or three
inches of snow had fall—
en meanwhile. It ran
here and there eagerly
looking for food but
found none. Finally
it began to scratch
and at once found a
kernel of corn. Six
others now arrived.
They were not slow to
take the hint, at once
beginning to scratch
and find food. Soon all
were as busy as a hen
with chicks.

11 ATE that winter a goshawk was fre-

We loved to see them twirl their tails,
rise on tip—toe and ﬂap their wings, as if
full of life and good spirits, but were sur-
prised to notice how frightened they be-
came when they caught a glimpse of any
of us. Then they stretched their necks,
uttered notes of alarm, spread their tails
and dashed for the evergreen and grape
trellis. If one secured a kernel of corn,
others tried to take it from him; and they
elbowed one another aside in order to get
a choice bite or secure a good scratching
place. When eating large kernels, they
picked them up several times until they
got them in: the best position for swallow—
ing, then gulped them down, thrusting the
head sharply forward two or three times
during the process. Their appetites satis-
ﬁed, they took refuge beneath the ever-
green or grape trellis, where they huddled
in a. group and rested. The more we saw
of them the more we marveled at their
similarity to domestic hens.

WheneVer the bob-whites came for food,
the jays and English sparrows came also,
as if afraid the larger birds would get
more than their share. The bob-whites
were boss and forced the smaller birds to
keep out of their way. The jays carried off
much of the corn I threw outside at ﬁrst,
but I learned to outwit them by throwing
the corn into the snow along the edge of
the cleared spot, where they had trouble
ﬁnding it. The bob—whites, on the other
hand, climbed the snow bank, ran their
heads into the snow, scratched and had
little trouble securing the food. .

The number of bob—whites varied from
time to time. At ﬁrst there were fourteen.
Then, one day, something frightened them.
They scattered in all directions, one ﬂying
head-ﬁrst against a window screen. There—
after, for some time, there were thirteen.
Later the number increased to twenty—two,
then to about forty. The day I estimated
forty of them visited us I did not throw any
corn outside, because the weather was mild
and the melting snow left the ground cov-
ered with corn. The birds seemed fastidious
that day, picking up several kernels before
ﬁnding one that suited them. Last wmter,
also, a large hawk lived in the neighborhood.
Once, possibly twice, it swooped over the
bare spot of ground in the yard, sendlng
the bob-whites scurrying in all directlons.

Now it is autumn once more and we
again have many bob—white neighbors,
their favorite refuge this fall being a
large brush pile near the barn. No doubt
they will remain all winter, givmg us many
opportunities for watching him. We W111
feed them, if need be, and, you may be
sure, will secure much enjoyment from
their companionship.

Our readers are urged to clip from “Our
Dumb Animals” various articles and request
their local editors to republish. Copies so
mutilated will be made good by us upon

application.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 30
61112 Iﬁanh nf merrg

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

E. A. MARYOTT, State Organizer
PLEDGE

I will try to be kind to all living creatures and
try to protect them from cruel usage.

The American Humane Education Society will send
to every person who forms a Band of Mercy of thirty
members, and sends the name chosen for the Band
and the name and post-ofﬁce address of the presx-
dent who has been duly elected, speCIal Band of
Mercy literature and a gilt badge for the pres1dent.
Send to headquarters for prices of llterature and
Band of Mercy Supplies.

NEW BANDS OF MERCY

Nine hundred and thirty—one new Bands
of Mercy were reported during Decem-
ber. Of these there were 287 in Illinois,
179 in Georgia, 152 in Massachusetts, 116
in Virginia, 82 in Maine, 80 in South Caro-
lina, 18 in Tennessee, eight each in New—
foundland and Pennsylvania, and one in
Indiana.

Total number of Bands of Mercy organ-
ized by Parent American Society, 220,900.

A Brown “Mutt”

GEORGE A. MAURER

I did not want a dog around,
Of any kind, and so ,

When Junie fetched a cur he’d found
I ruled it soon must go.

“Be rid that dog most quickly, Son!”
I bade, with snap and sting.

“I would not have a high-bred one,
Much less that mongrel thing!”

Unwanted? Yes, inded! And yet,
Sans breed and pedigree,

That dog was soon the pampered pet
Of Ma, the kids—and me.

I Knew She Was a Lady

EVA WILLES WANGSGARD

DID not know her name nor ‘where

she lived except that her home must
be somewhere in the rear of the block.
That much I learned by watching her
pass down the alley each day while I stood
irrigating the flowers on that side of the
house.

She was an attractive little thing with
a dignified manner which she wore very
well in spite of her small stature. She
was beautifully dressed in a perfect-fitting
gray coat with a fine white fur collar
that extended down the front. She wore a
close-fitting cap of the same mate-rial and
her feet were shod in fine footwear that
matched perfectly. Her walk was the
most distinguished thing about her. She
had the softest tread. I should never
have been able to hear her step along
the pavement had I been about my house-
hold tasks instead of spending that hour
every morning in the garden.

She was such a quiet little thing that
I wondered if she were not lone-some. One
morning I determined to make her ac—
quaintance, so I called in the friendliest
voice I could command, “Good morning.
Have you time to visit awhile?”

She walked on with her eyes straight
ahead as if I had not spoken.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

I was not to be so lightly rebuffed,
however, and spoke again the next time
I saw her. I might just as well have
spoken to the begonias—better, perhaps,
for the begonia does nod to me and curt—
sie-s gracefully if I touch it. Not so,
my new neighbor. I could get no re-
sponse from her.

I did not once see her husband. Per—
haps she was not married, but I assumed
she was. Anyway, I wondered what her
husband did that kept him so much away
from home. Maybe, he had deserted her
and that was why she was so quiet. Per—
haps she had married beneath her sta—
tion and was trying to maintain her dig-
nity at all costs. No matter why, there
is no denying that she held herself aloof.

One morning she went by as I was
carrying a pail of milk in from the car.
“Good morning,” I called as usual.

She walked on with her former indif—
ference.

Then, I had a sudden inspiration.
“Won’t you have a drink of milk with
me?” I asked. “It is very good milk. We
get it fresh from the farm every morn—
mg.”

She did not answer so I set her glass
of milk on the bench by the door and
went about my work. That time she
stopped and turned back. I dislike con-
fessing that I really spied on her while
I pretended to give my whole attention
to my garden. I know it was she who
drank the milk because I saw her. The
incident seemed to be of little use in
improving our relations, for she certainly
snubbed me as regularly as before.

I notice-d that she came by me directly
after leaving the corner grocer’s. It oc-
curred to me that Mrs. Lewis, the grocer’s
wife, might be well acquainted with her
and could relieve my curiosity, but I
could not discuss my social snubs with the
grocer’s wife. After all, I have some
dignity.

One day, I saw Mrs. Lewis walk down
the drive. “Now why is she going to the
back door?” I wondered.

Then I waited and waited for the knock
that did not come. “Where did she go?” I
asked myself.

My curiosity led me to the back win—
dow. From there I could see her standing
by the box elder tree. I suppose I should
not call it a tree, but it had been one.
The heavy wind of May had uprooted it
and now it lay, just a. large trunk with
its great roots exposed to the sun, prone
across the hole that its roots had made
as they tore loose. She was peeking un-
der the trunk. Mrs. Lewis must have
felt queer to be behaving so in my back
yard, for she looked around to see if she
were being watched. When she saw me
at the window, she beckoned for me to
come. I ran out and stood beside her.

“You must have seen her pass,” she
said. “I’ve missed her often, lately. To-
day, when I saw her, I followed. Look.”

I looked where she indicated. There
under the stump in the soft, brown leaves
lay my new neighbor, fully clothed, in her
gray coat with its white fur trimmings.
Beside her lay five tiny kittens.

Mrs. Lewis turned to me. “Do you
mind if I leave her here until her family
is old enough to move?” she asked.

Feb. 1937

 

Keep Your Cat Indoors

D R .
Chief Veterinarian, Angell Animal Hospital

HUGH F. DAILEY

ITH weather forecasters predicting

spells of sudden and severe cold, it
would be a good idea to keep your house
cat indoors at night.

Many people think because a cat is well—
furred, it needs no particular protection.
It is astonishing how many kind-hearted
persons hold that View. They wouldn’t
dream of turning their dog out into bitter
weather, because they 'know he is not ca-
pable of looking after himself like a cat. A
dog will lie on a cold doorstep for hours,
with an occasional whine, but a cat, once
she made up her mind she was locked out,
would seek shelter elsewhere, perhaps un-
der the veranda, or in a shed.

What these people fail to remember is
that the average petted house cat has lost
a lot of its resistance to cold. An alley
cat can take care of herself. She has some
nest somewhere and can keep fairly com-
fortable. It is her regular mode of life.
But the cat reared in a warm home has
lost not only resistance to cold, but some-
thing of a self-protective instinct as well.
Such cats are apt to have their pads frozen
as the least of their troubles, with pneu—
monia as a major danger.

The trouble comes with the sudden drops
in temperature to which this section is
subject. Twenty to thirty degrees is not
unusual, and that spells danger to a cat.
So the safe plan is to see to it that she
is snugly inside at night during the winter,
regardless of what the temperature may be
at bedtime. It is the humane thing to do,
and the sensible thing if you value your cat.

New Leaflet Ready

The unusual story on this page entitled,
“I Knew She Was a Lady,” by Eva Wil-
les Wangsgard, has just been published
by the American Humane Education Socie-
ty, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, as
a two-page leaflet. Price, 50 cents per
100 copies, postpaid.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page ’78
@119 Iﬁanh nf merry

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

E. A. MARYOTT, State Organizer
PLEDGE

I will try to be kind to all living creatures and
try to protect the-m from cruel usage.

The American Humane Education Society Wlll send
to every person who formsaBand of Mercy of thirty
members, and sends the name chosen for the Band
and the name and post-ofﬁce address of the mem-
dent who has been duly elected, special Band of
Mercy literature and a gilt badge for the pres1dent.
See inside front cover for prices of literature and
Band of Mercy Supplies.

NEW BANDS OF MERCY

Seven hundred and eighty-three new
Bands of Mercy were reported during
March. Of these, 261 were in Illinois, 85 in
Texas, '78 in Maine, 68 in Georgia, 66 in
Virginia, 63 in Florida, 56 in South Caro-
lina, 54 in Massachusetts, 31 in Pennsyl—
vania, eight in Newfoundland, six in Ten-
nessee, two each in Michigan and Minne-
sota, and one each in British West Indies,
California and Oregon.

Total number of Bands of Mercy organ-
ized by Parent American Society, 222,776.

Butterfly

MARGARET GORDON

0 melody of hues that sing
And singing shine!

Can your quick body’s fluttering
Be kin to mine?

Bright butterfly, strange perfect thing,
What can you be?

The labyrinth that is your wing.
Amazes me.

The Turtledove

WILLIS MEHANNA

GENTLE, affectionate creature that

frequents our barn lots, picking up
weed seeds and minute animal life such as
parasites and insects is a good description
of the turtledove. But this does not tell all.
There are many sides to the habits and be-
havior of turtledoves. Their characteristics
are numerous. Sometimes these birds nest,
sing and live in the deep woods and appear
to be wild. On the other hand I have seen
their nests in the cornﬁeld right up against
a hill of green, growing corn. Frequently
they nest in the tangle of vines that cover
the porch. Oftentimes they do not build a
nest at all but take up quarters in a nest
abandoned by a robin or catbird. Usually
there are two baby birds and these do not
attempt to ﬂy until quite large and are
sure they can. I have seen a young dove ﬂy
forty rods the ﬁrst time it tried to ﬂy. In
summer doves sit on the comb of my house
and sing their cooing song apparently as
carefree as could be desired. When the
winter is to be a mild one turtledoves will
stay in the north availing themselves of the
shelter of barns, outbuildings and thick
groves but if a severe winter is coming
they promptly ﬂy south in the fall, and be-
fore very late. I suppose instinct tells
them what to do. Although an easy-going
bird the turtledove is a weed seed and in-
sect eater. His cooing is soothing and
pleasant to hear.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

May, 1937

 

SUMMER FRIENDSHIPS

 

“Whiskers” and the Police

GEORGE A. MAURER

LITTLE more than a year ago Police
Sergeant William Jester, of Delaware
Township, Camden County, New Jersey,
answered a telephone call.
“Police Station; Sergeant Jester speak-

ing,” said he. “Yes . . . A dog run over on
Kings Highway? . . O. K., I’ll be right
out.”

Finding “Whiskers,” a nondescript dog of
airedale extraction, suffering from a bro-
ken left hip and a fractured jaw, Sergeant
Jester took him to headquarters. Here,
Chief John Brannin “sentenced” the dog to
be “put out of his misery,” naming Jester
as the executioner.

Behind the police station, Sergeant Jester
pulled his revolver. But when Whiskers
raised a pair of kindly, pleading eyes, the
gun was lowered and jammed back into its
holster. In place of the weapon, splints
and bandages were put into service. Ten-
derly, patiently, the sergeant nursed Whis—
kers back to health—to become the mascot
of the police force and later, also, pet of
the women of a PWA sewing project oc—
cupying the same building.

Recently Whiskers fell asleep under an
automobile that had a leaking battery. The
acid dropped upon him, and he was burned
severely. But the dog once condemned to
die had many friends now. He was rushed
to a veterinary hospital, and the police and
women of the sewing project quickly con—
tributed to a fund for his care.

Again Whiskers’ life has been spared, and
he is repaying his benefactors with his
cheery barks and other canine ways.

If animal lovers wish to commend Ser-
geant William Jester and his fellow ofﬁcers,
they may be addressed to Police Station
Ellisburg, Delaware Township, Camden
County, N. J .

_ All insects aren’t bugs, but all bugs are
1nsects. Bugs have long, sucking beaks
rather than chewing mouth—parts.

Ladybugs are being cultivated to help
man in h1s ﬁght against insect pests. Lady-
bugs destroy aphids and scale insects.

“Blackie” and the Deer

F. H. SIDNEY

LACKIE is a Belgian sheep dog
owned by Hugh S. Betts, chief of
police of the town of Harvard, Massachu—
setts. There’s a big buck deer that hides in
the woods, in a secret place known only to
Chief Betts and to his faithful dog Blackie.
Every day Blackie rushes off into the
woods to play and gambol with his strange
playmate, a. big, wild, handsome buck deer.
Chief Betts suspected Blackie was up to
something for the dog would rush off into
the woods every morning and stay for an
hour or so, then come back pretty well tired.
So one day his owner followed him.

Chief Betts tracked Blackie about a mile
into the woods to a thick growth of pines,
moving to the leeward side so that the scent
of his body would not carry to whatever
animal happened to be in there. He crept
close enough to see what was going on.
Blackie was gamboling and playing with a
big buck who seemed to enjoy it immensely,
for he, too, jumped and gamboled, never
trying once to gore the dog with his antlers.

The Belgian sheep dogs are trained, of
course, to work with sheep, and that is no
doubt the reason why Blackie played with
the deer rather than trying to molest it.

The Belgian sheep dog or Groendael, is a
member of the shepherd family. His large
size, graceful carriage and otherwise attrac-
tive appearance, as well as his splendid dis—
gosition, make him a very desirable family

og.

He is a native of Belgium and is used for
herding purposes. He has been trained for
Red Cross duty, guard duty, and also has
been taken into the home as a pet and com-
panion. His early history dates back many
generations. No doubt he is closely related
to the German shepherd on one side, hav-
ing been developed from that time along
the special lines that we now know.

0 ‘0
a

At one time the now totally extinct
heath hen was so plentiful that servants,
in. binding themselves out for service,
stlpulated that they were not to be fed the
ﬂesh of the heath hen more than a certain
number of times each week.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 5!;

 

A Pig Makes Favorite Pet

BERNARD L. KOBEL

‘ F any butcher looks with longing eyes on

“Betty,” the 75-pound pig that is the pet
of C. H. Mooney and the folks of the camp
resort, he might just as well save his time,
for Betty deﬁnitely will not turn out to be-
bacon and pork chops.

True it is that there was once a time
when her fate seemed to be that. In- fact it
was 'i‘with that int/"mind that Mr. Mooney
bought her. But she has proved to be such
a'good pig, and such a smart watch dog
that‘not one hair of her head (and body)
will be harmed as long as her owner can
help it. She is quite a companion to Mr.
Mooney, she follows his steps practically
from daylight until dark, and rides with
him in the family car when he goes to mar—
ket. ‘ Perhaps her main actual worth, aside
from being a good pet, is her ability to be
a good watch dog. Whenever a stranger
approaches, she is the ﬁrst to take notice
and will give a series of peculiar grunts
which Mr. Mooney has learned to interpret
that someone is coming.

Being a female, she does a lot of talking,
pig language of course. The fact is that
Mr. Mooney grunts right back at her. To
those people who look surprised at his
grunting, he explains that he is simply
learning the pig language with Betty. The-y
live on a rural route out of Memphis, Ten—
nessee.

The Cat as Companion

The cat, silent, gentle and graceful, with
no bark or bounce or boisterousness to mar
her reﬁned demeanor or disquiet the most
sensitive nerves, has often proved herself
an ideal companion for an invalid or con-
valescent. The tedium of Lord Randolph
Churchill’s last days and failing powers was
geatly cheered by the companionship of the
beautiful gray cat imported from India for
the purpose, the kitten of a trained Indian
“watch-cat,” and as intelligent as she was
beautiful. She soon learned to pose for her
picture, play the piano, and perform many
other tricks at command, and was unfail-
ingly affectionate, graceful and interesting
1n her natural behavior. —Cat Courier

OUR

DUMB

HOmeless
ELSYE TASH SATER

I wonder how you’d like to be
A cat, without a home,

Turned loose into the cruel streets
To roam, and roam, and roam?

Suppose that “Grown-Ups all said, “S c a t!”
The minute you’d appear,

Till every goo-d thought that you had
Was crowded out by fear!

Suppose that you were crippled, too,
And starving for some food,

And every person whom you met
Was deaf to you or rude!

I just guess then you’d understand
How dreadful it must be,—

Perhaps you wouldn’t be so stern,
You’d have some sympathy.

I’ve thoughts within. my head,
Although my words are few:
The only sentence I can say
Is: “Meow .. 0h! .. Meow! .. Oh! Meow!

Do Cats Resent Neglect?

MAE M. VANDER BOOM

ATS have more sense than people

give them credit for. I wonder if
sometimes they may resent imagined neg-
lect?

About ﬁve years ago my sister and fam—
ily took a long overland trip. They were
to be gone three months, so asked me to
feed their cats—a mother and her two
Angora kittens.

We had cats of our own so did not wish
to bring the others over to our place and
my sister did not want them to get used
to staying away from home. They thought
a lot of their. cats and wanted to keep
them, especially the older mother which
had been given to the children when very
small.

We live in orange groves in California,
about one mile apart. Each day I or
some of my family went over religiously
and fed the cats. Always they came me-
owing out to meet us, rubbing up against
us, and evincing in every way their great
joy at seeing someone. It was quiet and
lonely around the yard where they had
been used to children
playing and a lot of
petting. The old moth-
er would stop her eating
and come over, rub up
against us to be strok—
ed, then go back to her
dinner. We couldn’t help
feeling sorry for them.
They seemed to get
more and more lonesome
as time passed.

Possibly these cats
would have wandered off
to the neighbors if the-re
had been children, but
the immediate neighbors
consisted of an old
bachelor who was gone
most of the time and
an old widow who de-

ANIMALS.

Apr. 1937

tested cats as they ate the fish out of her
lily pond.

So it happened, one evening about dusk,
I looked out and saw our cats, tails up-
raised and all bushed up, standing at
attention, near our back door, one in. the
middle of the driveway, the other two on
either side.

I went out, and there, about half way
down the drive to the street, was my sis—
ter’s cat, while at the entrance to the
driveway were her two kittens. The old
mother cat came cautiously and slowly, but
de-te-rminedly, one step at a time toward
us, keeping her eyes riveted on our an—
tagonistic animals.

When she saw me she looked up plain-
tively, meowing as if asking my support
of her venture, the-n turned and ran quick-
ly back, bringing her kittens up to the
place where she had stood before plead—
ing her cause.

Here, with the two kittens behind her,
she sat down, keeping one eye on our
cats and one on me, crying appealingly at
intervals.

Calling my husband and son to the
rescue and with the aid of four saucers
of milk, together with much admonishing
and coaxing, we ﬁnally brought about a
degree of toleration among the cats of
the two families—though it was somewhat
begrudged at ﬁrst.

We tried taking the Visitors home over
and over again but they were back almost
as soon as we were. How they found our
place I do not know as it must have been
hard in this orange district.

When my sister and her family re-
turned, they tried every imaginable way
to induce their cats to stay at home. They
succeeded with the kittens but the old
mother cat always came back. During
the ﬁve years she has been with us she
has even gone through the trying experi—
ence of our raising a police pup. Still
she has stayed. Taking her home so many
times she has become car-minded, and
often when we are out riding we will ﬁnd
her curled up on the back seat asleep. A
number of times of a. Saturday night we
have driven downtown (unaware of her
presence) and when we got out to do our
shopping have found her perched up on
top of the car. And there she sits, blink-
ing at the lights, seemingly enjoying the
hustle and bustle on the street so long as
she herself is aloof from it.

 

DO THEY RE-SENT IMAGIVNED NEGLE‘CT?

 

, .' are J




n—,«~—.

“may ..

 

 

ﬂlay,1937

l

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

1
L

1‘“,

I
1

a
..
I

\

4
\

   

'\ ‘
g: :53
‘ I
‘_: ‘3‘; : ,
. I, ' \v
1 ‘ \ \\ \v Ir v
‘ I‘M?" .‘ \“v\" we 1‘:\" \‘U 'I\’(.‘ . 1
,I .‘ n hi“, "'HCD \. ‘K‘ I’ ‘|. -
ro_."\-.‘1I‘1l'\l‘u'l,l ,.
‘lgpl I \\ II I
‘II' \\| ‘l

. . . \I' .
' H '
' r
I“ I‘llllsl,‘ \\‘—- .Ih,‘;'l{"/u\l\'1:'vllIx“ \lIz'1"\

 

'/
z
\-

Loyalty
ALMA FLAKOLL

“We want a dog!” my children said,
When they were eight and twelve;

Within the volume “Care of Dogs”
They soon began to delve.

“We’re ready now,” they said one day,
“To get a little chow,

We’ve learned just how to feed him
And to teach him how to bow!

He’ll have good manners, we are sure,
And follow every rule.”

So “Smoky” came to live with us—
But one day ran to school.

He ran between the rows of desks,
He sniﬁ‘ed the children’s feet,

They laughed aloud in happy mood
As ,‘he tore by each seat.

The teacher was disgusted—
“We’ll have to call the pound.

This is a place for children,
We can’t have dogs around!”

Then courage born of love
Came into Adrian’s heart.

He stood right up and spoke aloud
“My dog and I won’t part!”

He got his jacket and his cap
Without a furtlher sound,

Then stood and waited with his dog
For the master from the pound.

The teacher felt a bit chagrined
Her thoughts began to roam;

She smiled at last, then sweetly said,
“Now you may take him home!”

Anna Sewell’s Pony

NE day Anna Sewell, a little English girl, was running
Q down a hill to escape a thunderstorm. She fell and broke
her ankle, and ever after that she was more or less an
invalid, writes Lois Snelling in Young Catholic Messenger.

Though she could not run any more, Anna could sit in the
little cart that the family owned and drive the pony of which
she was so fond. Every day she drove out over the quiet
country roads, and on these drives she did a lot of thinking.
Most of her thoughts centered around the pony. For Anna
was considering writing a book about a horse, and her in-
spiration came from her own little pony!

Year after year passed and Anna kept storing up mate "ial
about horses. Then at last she commenced her work on the
story, which she named “Black Beauty.” It took a number
of years to write this book which we all love so much, for by
this time the frail author had become bedridden and could
write only a few paragraphs at a time. But when “Black
Beauty” was finally completed and published, Anna had the
pleasure of seeing it immediately become very popular
throughout England, and later throughout the world.

)1)
ﬂ
.2
l“—
55
WW
:3“
(/3
”U
>
G

  
 
  
 

 

. '~I I)
I ,'," \ ’ ,lpII
r I. I\(\! ‘\\\l\v\Ll'|J"| "I/ I"II"\I1,'\1 VbIa‘S/

 

:l

 

FIVE-YEAR-OLD DONNA AND HER PONY
VANCOUVER, WASHINGTON

 

The Mouse with a Sweet Tooth

MABEL L. BOLT

ICE have always terriﬁed me but they do not any
M longer. A mouse, single—handed or single-hearted, per-
sonally looked after that, thus endearing himself not only to
me but to the entire family. He is an ordinary ﬁeld mouse,
gray in color, but with the manners of a little gentleman.
He has been my visitor for two consecutive years. The ﬁrst
year we noticed his preference for crab—apple jelly. He always
took his nibble from the same jar, not dreaming to touch the
others or of feasting on apples, oranges and potatoes that were
standing about. He might have changed his diet but never
did, for a nibble of crab-apple jelly a day seemed to satisfy
him. He left in the spring when the jar was empty. This
fall, to our surprise, he reappeared, repeating the same jelly
maneuver. So far, he has emptied about one—eighth of the jar,
eating the paraﬂ‘in trimming as well. We cannot bear to set a
trap. We invite him to return another year. There always
is room in a large house for a gentleman mouse.
Answers to “Hidden Birds” puzzle last month: 1. Linnet.
2. Cardinal. 3. Kingﬁsher. 4. Bobwhite. 5. Redstart. 6. Martin.

7. Snipe. 8. Redwing. 9. Ostrich. 10. Nightingale. 11. Swallow.
Sandpiper.

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

Jan. 1937

The Empty Stall

—— And all is silence. . . .
But still I hear

The eager nicker,
So good—so dear—

The restless pounding
Of hoofs that wait

For me to saddle,
And lift the gate.

And still I linger
To say good—night

The 'while she holds me
With glad delight;

 

And I feel her muzzle
Against my face—

And stroke her neck
In the same warm place. . . .

Though the stall is vacant
And quiet and bare

A bit of my heart
Is anchored there.

LEONE RICE GRELLE in New York Times

Humane Trap Contest

For the tenth consecutive year the
American Humane Association of Albany,
N. Y., announces the annual humane trap
contest. Prizes totaling $500 are offered.
These are awarded in three groups. For
the two best traps for taking animals alive
and unhurt, $150 and $75 are offered.
Prizes in the second group are $100 and
$50 for traps that hold without injury, and,
in the third group, $85 and $40 for traps
that kill humane-1y.

Entries in the contest must be humane,
practical, efﬁcient and reasonable in produc—
tion cost. Write to the Association for
entry blank and contest announcement.

 

   

HORSE WILL PROBABLY CONTINUE
TO SHARE IN HUMAN HISTORY”

“THE

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Horses and History

MOST interesting article under the

above title appeared in. the November
issue of Natural History. It was written
by George Gaylord Simpson, Ph.D., associ—
ate curator, Vertebrate Paleontology Mu—
seum. We are glad, for the sake of all
horse lovers, to be permitted to reproduce a
part of it. We wish we had room for all of
it. He began with the following quotation
from Shakespeare:

“When I bestride him, I soar, I am a
hawk: he trots the air; the earth sings
when he touches it; the basest horn of his
hoof is more musical than the pipe of Her-
mes . . . his neigh is like the bidding of a
monarch and his countenance enforces hom-
age.”

Before the dawn of history the thun-
der of flying hooves sounded among the
green valleys of Gaul, across the broad
steppes of the Volga, and the Caspian, and
over the plateaus and the deserts of Tar—
tary. That ancient singing of hooves, like
the clash of distant cymbals, was to mingle
with the voices of men and to go echoing
down the long corridors of history. Indeed
it was to be history, for the horse was to
carry on his back the fates of nations and
the hopes of civilization. When, in the
course of our rise in wonder and in pain
from our brute ancestors, primitive man
ﬁrst crept silently along shaded paths
stalking dun and shaggy wild ponies, he
created a partnership that was to help shape
the destinies of both man and beast for-
ever after. Hawk—like Arabs, ﬁerce Tar—
tars, mailclad Chevaliers, little yellow men
and lean red men, innumerable hosts, were
to woo the horse and to live with him and
by him. . . .

Domestication

There is, however, no conclusive evidence
that the men of the Stone Ages ever do—
mesticated the horse, although their use of
horses as food and their keen
interest and observation may
properly be considered as the
first step that was to lead to
domestication. When and
w h e r e domestication ﬁrst
took place, or indeed whether
it did not occur at more than
one time and more than one
place, may never be exactly
known, but we may infer
that it was probably some—
where in Central Asia and
around 4,000 B. C. Horses
ﬁrst appear in regular writ-
ten history between 2,000 and
1,500 B. C. . . .

Greek paintings of about
600 B. C. show the Libyans,
both men and women, riding
astride, bareback and nude.
In these paintings the horses
have bridles. Later authors
describe naked Numidians on
unbridled horses.

In Greek Art

The best horses of the
G r e e k s are portrayed in
i- the sculptures executed by
Phidias for the Parthenon.
Whatever one may think of

Page 11

this more practical aspect of the matter,
the Greeks must have loved horses and
these sculptures are among the most
beautiful things ever created by the hands
of man. Their lovely, simple lines, in
rich and ﬂawless texture, their sure achieve—
ment, and their lively and sometimes almost
humorous spirit are all incomparably ﬁne.
Had horses never done anything for man
but to serve as models for these works of
art, they would yet deserve an honorable
place in the history of the human soul. . . .

A Sign of Rank

It is a curious fact that while horses were
playing a dominant part in the ancient his-
tory of the Mediterranean, the Arabian
horse, which was to become the most famous
and important in the world, did not yet
exist as such. There is no evidence that
the Arabs or allied Semitic tribe-s had any
horses before the Christian era, although
they already had camels. During the ﬁrst
few centuries before Christ, no one knows
exactly when or how, some particularly
potent strains of horses were introduced
among the Arabs. These animals were for
a long time few in number {and their posses-
sion was conﬁned to a few prominent men
or families, but the stock was carefully
perpetuated and increased so that by the
time of M‘ohammed the Arabs had acquired
great skill as horsemen and also a stock of
phenomenally ﬁne horses.

It would be difﬁcult to overemphasize the
historical importance of these Arabian
horses. . . .

“The air and gracefulness of sitting a
Horse,” says Don Quixote, “makes gentle-
men of some and grooms of others,” and so
it has been throughout most of European
history. From the Hippeis of ancient Greece
to the Chevalier, Caballero, or Cavalier of
today, the man on the horse is the gen-
tleman, the aristocrat. There is no proba-
bility that the horse will ever lose his use—
fulness entirely, and if he did, yet he would
still be cherished as a friend and as a
source of pleasure. The horse will probably
continue to have some share in human his-
tory as long as that history is made.

VVoodchuCks

As I write this I am fully aware of the
fact that the woodchuck is not popular with
farmers. However, he has some traits that
should entitle him to consideration. He does
eat some corn while it is green but after
it gets ripe he will not bother it. The
main food of woodchucks is roots and vege—
table stuff. He does not eat meat, yet he
is quite a ﬁghter. A family of woodchucks
had a home under some willows near the
center of a small cornﬁeld of mine. I
cut this cornﬁeld all up into corn shocks. I
noticed that shocks near the woodchuck’s
home were not bothered by rats and mice.
The Whole ﬁeld had but very few of either,
and this in a year when rats and mice were
plentiful. The woodchuck would scorn such
things as rats and mice for food yet he will
destroy them and run them away from his
stamping-grounds. He does not destroy one
bushel of corn where rats and mice destroy
a hundred. Woodchucks are a menace only
when they become too numerous, and that

is the case with many other animals.
W. M.

 




 

Phb.1937

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Lullaby for Kittens
E. MERRILL ROOT

Fold your shy-blue eyes and keep
Little thorny paws asleep

(While small bubbles made of purr
Shake the softness of your fur.)

Pale pink mouth—bright gate of dream——
Savor now no mouse or cream:
Flower-petal tongue, be still:

You have lapped your snowy ﬁll.

Taper tail, so good to chase,
Curl around the tilted face;
Feet. so swift to run or leap,
Pillow now these buds of sleep.

Furry ears, be slumber-stuﬁed;
Whiskers. drowse in silver tuﬁ”;
Frolic chubby bodies lie

Hushed in perfect lullaby!

Wily Mr. Woodchuck

DORIS GOLTERMAN

SCAMPERING over nearly all the American fields, the
brown woodchuck rears his family and continues to
ﬂourish because he never forgets to “stop, look, and listen.”
Despite the fact that he must constantly face danger and
sudden death from larger foraging animals, as well as man,
there are probably more woodchuck families living content-
edly today than there were when the Mayflower hove into
port.

Mr. Woodchuck relies upon his nerves, eyes, and ears.
He cannot run speedily away from an enemy like a rabbit
or scamper into a tree like a squirrel nor does he have any
weapons of defense like the skunk or porcupine.

Have you ever watched this shy, brown creature from a
distance? Did you notice that he never takes half a dozen
steps nor a bite of grass without pausing? Every few mo-
ments he raises his head, stands erect on his haunches, and
looks searchingly in all directions. At the slightest unusual
sound or movement he vanishes into his burrow.

This burrow is his only protection besides his eyes, ears
and nerves. He has learned to dig a deep and ever widening
passageway under ground for his home. This passageway
has at least two openings for emergencies, and he never ven-
tures far from one of the doorways of this tunnel.

Mr. Woodchuck has learned another important lesson
through hundreds of years of ancestral experience. It is
“Early to bed and early to rise.” He always retires to his
cozy home under the ground before dusk, a trifle earlier
than the great horned owl and the sly, red fox start their
evening prowl. .

Isn’t it fascinating to know that this tiny denizen 0f the
fields has to go to bed early and “stop, look and listen”
when he crosses his country streets just as human boys and
girls do?

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

      

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ll
’1' {TV I,

How Many Birds in. the Tree?

ALFRED I. TOOIKE

I
. I

 

How many bird names can you spell out in the above dia-
gram, starting at any letter you like each time and moving
one square at a time in any direction. (There is HEN right
in the middle, for instance). Do not use the same square
twice in any one name. If you can ﬁnd ﬁfteen birds in the
tree you are good; eighteen is very good; twenty is excellent.
It is possible to get twenty-three.

Correct answers will be printed next month.

Answers to “How Many Animals?” in last month’s puzzle:
The numbers show on which square each name starts and
finishes.

Rat (2-1) ”Hare (6-8) Horse (25-20)
Cat (3—1) Hart (6-1) Roe (28-20)
Bear (4-2) Moose (5-20) Dog (22—21)
Mice (5-8) Camel (3-18) Doe (22-17)
Monkey (5-12) Elk (17-13) Yak (12-13)
Mink (5-13) Kine (13-18) Ram (2-11)

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 12

They Loved Cats

AMELIA WOFFORD

LLUSTRIOUS names star the list of cat

lovers. Let us mention a few in whose
lives “the fireside Sphinx” has played an
important role. George Washington had sev-
eral pet cats, and stray cats that came to
Mount Vernon had in him a kindly host.
Monticello, too, was hospitable to cats. Of
the many that lived there Thomas Jefferson
chose a few for pets. Abraham Lincoln
was another president who loved cats and
made pets of them. Chief Justice Fuller’s
name is also on the list of cat lovers. And
Daniel Webster is said to have been so fond
of cats that he kept a “whole regiment”
about him when he lived in Washington.

England boasts a long list of distin—
guished cat lovers. Cardinal Wolsey kept
his pet cat by him when giving audience.
Blackstone, England’s celebrated jurist,
wrote his “Commentaries on the Laws of
England” with his pet cat sitting beside
him. Dr. Johnson so loved his pet cat
“Hodge,” that he purchased the oysters
which he had taught him to eat, for fear
the servants might mistreat him if they
were sent on this errand. Lord Chester-
ﬁeld provided in his will for the care of his
cats after his death. Pope is said to have
“shown the best side of his character” to
his cats. Hogarth, England’s famous
painter and engraver, was very partial to
cats. At Chiswick he had a garden where
he buried his pets and set up tablets in
their memory. Sir Horace Walpole was
another cat lover. And so were Thomas
Campbell, COWper, Kingsley, Tennyson and
Thackeray.

Chateaubriand’s name makes notable
France’s list of cat lovers. He loved cats,
he said, for their independence and the
ease with which they passed from the par—
lor to the gutter. His life in London, for
a time during the French Revolution, was
somewhat cheered by two kittens, “white
like ermines, with black at the tips of their
tails.” When secretary of Legation at
Rome, an appointment he owed to Napoleon
Bonaparte, Pope Leo XII, knowing his love
of cats, presented him with one. Cardinal
Richelieu kept kittens in his cabinet and
diverted himself by watching their play.
Michelet the historian loved cats, including
even the deformed, and guarded them
against ill-treatment. Lamartine the poet,
loved cats and flowers, and had regular
hours for enjoying them. Theophile Gau—
tier, poet, critic, and novelist, made com-
panions of his cats. They were of the hon-
ored who have place in their master’s writ—
ings. And charming stories he told of them.
Pierre Loti also wrote tenderly of cats.
Marshall Turenne, whose brilliant victories
added lustre to Louis XIV’s reign, was an-
other cat lover. A favorite amusement was
playing with his kittens.

Handel’s name stars the list of cat lov-
ers; and so do Tasso’s, Petrarch’s, Dante’s,
and Mahomet’s. An incredible tale is told
of Camoens, Portugal’s poet, and his cat.
Without the means to buy a candle, the
legend runs that he wrote the “Lusiads” by
the light of its eyes.

Scotland’s notable contribution to the list
of cat lovers is Sir Walter Scott. His par-

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

ticular pet was “Hinse.” When “Nimrod,”
one of his dogs, killed this cat, Scott eX—
claimed, from his heart: “Oh, my good

friend, you have killed my other good
friend.”

“MIKE” OF THE BRONX

“My name is ‘Mickey Mouse.’ They call me
Mike. I just love the country where I was
born, but I was deserted by all and was to
have been shot when a kind owner brought
me to her city home where I have a good
time, too. Here I can chase butterflies and
grasshoppers and, when hungry, go home
and get all the ‘eats’ I want.”

Stranger
MAY GIBSON SHERBAKOFF

I have no idea whence you came,

Young, gray cat, but you were lame,

And chilling snow had numbed your feet—
When hungry eyes looked up to meet

My own in challenge, could I dare

Refuse you shelter, food and care?

Ahumane boycott of all vicious and dis-
creditable shows, featuring animal acts, was
long ago suggested and urged by the Jack
London Club. Send to headquarters, 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston, for detailed in-
formation about it.

 

Jan. 1937

Facts about Eels

L. D. CHAPMAN

OULD you be surprised to learn that
our common fresh-water eel goes to
the salt water to lay its eggs and then dies?

The eels, common in all our rivers and
streams, spend their Whole adult life in
fresh water, only returning to their orig—
inal home in the ocean to lay their eggs,
and then to die. The common eel, familiar
to all of us, has a remarkably wide dis-
tribution, being found on the coast and in
the rivers of western Europe, and in all
parts of America. In its feeding habits the
eel is a regular glutton, and somewhat of
a scavenger besides, its varied diet including
voles, water-birds, small ﬁsh, ﬁsh spawn and
worms. It is owl—like in its habits, com-
mitting many of its depredations at night.

A quarter of a century ago practically
nothing was known of the breeding habits
of the species. The elucidation of the mys-
tery provided one of the most fascinating
biological discoveries in recent years.

Toward autumn a number of adult
ﬁsh cease to feed, lose their normal green-
ish color, and assume a silvery livery; at
the same time the eyes become larger and
other changes occur. The call of the sea
seems to be all-powerful, for individuals liv—
ing in remote ponds will wriggle across
stretches of grassland, on damp nights, in
order to reach the nearest sea—going river.
Having reached the ocean, they make their
way to the nearest spawning grounds, situ—
ated two or three thousand miles away in
the Western Atlantic, south-east of Ber—
muda. Having deposited their eggs, the
parents die.

The following spring the young hatch out.
They are curious little creatures with ﬂat-
tened leaf—like bodies, small heads and jaws
provided with a few long needle—like teeth.
They feed on minute organisms at or near
the surface of the ocean, and gradually
swim or drift across the Atlantic, ﬁnally
approaching the coast when a little more
than two years old.

Having reached the average length of
three inches, they are now ready to enter
fresh water. They run up the larger rivers
by the million, the ascent of the young eels
taking place in the» late Winter or early
spring. N o obstacle seems too great for the
migrating eels once they start on their way
to the fresh water, till at last they ﬁnd some
suitable resting-place in some river, pond
or stream, where they will remain until
they themselves are old enough to ‘set out
on the great journey that will end their
lives.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page J 02

The Stowaway Bird
K A D R A M A Y S I

WAS stretched out in my steamer chair

on the after deck when I ﬁrst saw the
bird. It dashed itself against the steps of the
after hatch, ﬂuttered down, and came to
rest between! two stanchions at my feet.
With wings spread, it looked not unlike a
small, slate—blue pigeon. But—we were in
mid-Atlantic, exactly half way between New
York and Ireland. We had left the Gulf
Stream astern and no longer saw the ﬂying
ﬁsh. The nearest land was at least a thou—
sand miles away. Whence came this small,
feathered visitor?

I had picked it up and wrapped it in
my scarf—to still its wildly beating wings-—
when the night watchman came by and
laughed at my fears for it. He said that,
even if it went overboard, it would not
drown, as it was a member of ' the stormy
petrel family and slept upon the water,
catching tiny ﬁsh for food. He said that the
ship’s lights attracted such birds, and that
they often ﬂew aboard and rested, then
went on. I told him that I was willing to
let it spend the night in my stateroom and
to take it down to breakfast if he thought
it would care for toasted sardines, rollmops,
or Yarmouth bloater. He disapproved of
my facetiousness, but was kind enough to
put the little creature in the dark box with
the ﬁre-hose, where it closed its sharp,
curved wings and appeared to sleep.

Next morning I went on deck early to
set it free, but found that it had already
gone through the! opening we had left to
give it air.

The watchman told me that ﬁve others
like it had ﬂown aboard after I went to
bed and had folded their wings and slept
on deck until daybreak, when they all ﬂew
away. When I asked him whether he was
quite sure they had escaped safely and not
been eaten by the ship’s cat, he told me,
reproachfully, that he had guarded them,
personally, all night. He said that, in the
ﬁrst place, sailors loved animals and wel—
come-d their presence to break the monot-
ony of time at sea, and that, in the second
place, these particular birds were protected
by a superstition of the- sea and no sailor,
however hard-hearted, would dare allow
harm to come to them.

It was to me a pleasing thought that a
busy trans-Atlantic liner should give shel-
ter and rest to tiny, weary chickens of
Mother Carey. All day I thought of that
Wee stowaway, who had ﬂown from night
and sea almost into my arms. I had felt
his small heart beating through the silk of
my scarf; but I believe it was from exhaus-
tion rather than from fear. For he did not
struggle to get away and his bright eyes
looked trustfully at me as I held him.

I wonder what waves you are riding now,
with your tiny, webbed feet, your sharp
bill and slim wings? Wherever you may be,
bon voyage, little shipmate!

The Toronto Humane Society prosecuted
a prominent surgeon of that city for cruel
treatment in killing a dog, and secured a
conviction with a ﬁne of $500, with alter-
native of two months in jail. The doctor
pleaded guilty and paid the ﬁne.

W__"__mr~_._‘.-wn .. --_ ... - .

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

July, 1937

“Buteo”—— 21 Noble of the Birdways

ELIZABETH WALKER INGLES

in an azure sky. As it banks, the sun
with a swift stroke paints in a cinna-
mon-red tail barred with black, giving accent
to the drab cloak of brown which is the dress

g MAGNIFICENT bird circles tirelessly

 

WESTERN RED-TAIL HAWK

of the western red-tail hawk. Below it in
a crevice high on a perpendicular cliﬂ" or in
the top of a lofty valley oak, it may build
its nest of sticks and twigs lined with bark.
For Buteo loves the inaccessible places and
broad acres. Yet he is remarkably adapt—
able, being able, according to ornithologists,
“to maintain himself as well upon the C010-
rado and Mojave deserts as upon the middle
slopes of the Sierras and the jutting cliffs
of the boundless chaparral country.”

Until about a month ago, my closest ac-
quaintanceship with the western red-tail
hawk was by way of binoculars as the bird
soared high among the clouds or rested mo-
mentarily in a great oak. Then one day two
boys found a full grown red-tail with a
badly-broken wing and, knowing our inter-
est in wild life, they brought the ﬁghting,
evil-looking bird to our home. Judging from
the numerous scratches on the arms and
hands of the captors, the red-tail came to
us much against his will. We named him
Buteo, and the bird endured our hospitality
for more than two weeks.

Installed in a wire-covered yard Buteo be-
gan to run back and forth with lowered
head in an effort to escape from the enclos-
ure. Soon, growing tired, he selected an old
chicken coop as a point of vantage and with
the help of his good left Wing and sharp
talons crawled to the top where he surveyed
the surrounding country. The wing slowly
began to heal until within ﬁve days the
hawk was able to ﬂy awkwardly to the top

of the chicken coop. At ﬁrst, refusing to
eat, the bird soon tolerated us enough to
snatch proffered food. The cruel~looking
talons easily pierced the tough red meat
and gristle offered to take the place of
natural fare, demonstrating the fate of any
small mammal which might come within
the graSp of the large raptor.

It seems strange that so magniﬁcent and
worthy a bird should be so misunderstood.
The popular misconception that the red—
tailed hawk is a thief in the chicken—yard
and the quail covey is responsible for the
wide-spread slaughter of this useful species.
Some men and boys murder this great hawk
in the name of sport; yet it is an easy tar-
get as it wheels lazily in the clear blue
sky. True, the red-tail is no saint. It gets
into the chicken—yard on occasion, especially
if other food is scarce, but Buteo much pre-
fers a diet of ground—squirrels, gophers,
wood-rats, meadow mice, snakes, frogs, liz-
ards and insects. As a rule the song birds,
grouse, quail and pheasants dart to cover
much too fast to fall prey to Buteo. How—
ever, once in a while the red—tail may kill
a sick individual, thus probably beneﬁting
other birds by checking the spread of dis-
ease. California, especially, owes a debt to
the red—tailed hawk for the Douglas and
Beechey ground-squirrels, which are prin-
cipal items in its diet, are pests to agricul-
ture and a menace to health. Government
statistics show that two per cent of these
ground-squirrels are infected with one of
two diseases—bubonic plague and relaps-
ing fever. Californians then owe the red-
tail their protection rather than a shower
of lead.

The day we turned Buteo free was warm
and clear. The poor broken wing had
healed and although weak was not entirely
useless. For a time the top of the chicken
coop reproached us with an empty stare,
for we had found much amusement and
interest in the activities of Buteo. Old
Buteo is gone now, but since his visit we
have a better understanding of his kind, a
comradeship with those great nobles of the
airways, the western red-tail hawks.

Riddle

ALICE GERTRUDE FIELD

Brilliant scrap of blaster,
Vivid dynamo,
Vibrant, feathered lustre,
Speed that light may know,
Booming iridescence,
Vigor, undeterred,
Energy’s quintessence:
Just a humming-bird!

Big game in the national forests is re-
sponding to care and protection. A recent
“census” of bear, deer, elk, moose, mountain
sheep and goats, and antelopes shows that
numbers have increased 10 per cent during
1936. It is estimated that 1,523,000 big-
game animals now have refuge in national
forests, a gain of about 250,000 animals
since January 1, 1935.

——Balletin, Mass. Audubon Society

 

 




 

 

Jan. 1937

Draft Animals in Ireland

KADRA MAYSI

ARNING: All People treating Ani—
mals cruelly break the Law and are
liable to Heavy Penalties.”

This is, word for word, the ”notice that I
found posted in tiny railway stations of
remote Irish towns. It gave me a fellow
feeling for the Irish Humane Society and
a feeling of gladness for the dumb friends
which it safeguarded.

Several years ago, when going to Spain,
I asked the editor of Our Dumb Animals
for a commission to write, in short articles,
my observation of the treatment of animals
there. Then I became quite nervous for
fear I should not do it to suit him. But I
found it easy and pleasant work, because
observing animals comes naturally to me.
Riding in a jaunting car at Killarney, I
found that admiration of lake and mountain
scenery did not prevent my noticing closely
the horse that drew us and the hands of
our driver. In all the pageantry of Mili-
tary Tattoo, at Cork, I saw that the «army
horses were beautiful and well cared for.
No little donkey passed me on Aran, laden
with grass or turf or kelp, without my see—
ing the condition of its tiny, rock—worn
hooves. So I think that I can give you,
conscientiously, my observations of animals
in Ireland.

The jaunting cars were my ﬁrst experi-
ence upon landing at Cobh. The horses
which draw them are usually large, pow—
erfully-built creatures, from ﬁfteen to six-
teen hands, with roached manes and tails.
With few exceptions, the-y looked to me well—
fed and well-treated. At some of the tour-
ist~infested spots, they appeared to be work-
ing continually and to be weary; but I
cannot say that I saw any case of ill—
treatment. The jaunting—car, or side car,
swung high on its two wheels, is best suited
for steep and rocky roadwork and is easier
on the horse than would be an ordinary
four-wheel buggy.

For private use I saw, too, numerous
governess carts drawn by fat, sturdy ponies.

But the wee donkey is, as of old, the
burden bearer of Ireland. They are even
smaller than the few donkeys we see in
America, and their foals appear no larger
than toy animals. Except for a few brown
ones, all I saw were gray or beige and

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

were marked with a distinct dark brown
cross. There is an Irish proverb about a
man who was such a thief he would steal
the cross off a donkey’s back.

Since landing in Ireland I have seen hun-
dreds of donkeys. I have seen them grazing
in deep green ﬁelds, sheltering in the short
lanes called “b-oreens,” resting, with their
tiny foals, in the high road directly in front
of a motorbus. But motorbuses, like life,
proceed slowly in the Emerald Isle, and
their drivers always slow down for animals
ahead.

These small creatures draw terriﬁc loads
of hay or grass, but their drivers always
assist by personally pushing or pulling the
cart. The animals are allowed to go as
slowly as they choose, and I do not think
they work any harder than their owners.

On the rocky, remote Aran Islands off Gal—
way coast, I saw donkeys carrying straddles
with great baskets of turf or kelp. They are
ridden by men, women and children. The
rider sits far back, as in Spain, putting all
weight on the beast’s hind legs.

These are the draft animals of the coun—
try—animals belonging to the working
classes and being, themselves, obliged to
work for their living. In all my weeks
here, I have seen no cases of whipping or
of exhaustion, of harness sores or lameness
or other cruelty. I have seen numerous
instances of kindness, care, and petting,
of ragged children who gather baskets of
grass for a donkey, of car drivers who take
the trouble to unharness and let graze a
horse for no matter how short a stop.

I should like to tell you of some of the
Irish hunters I have seen, and of the mag-
niﬁcent thoroughbreds at Phoenix Park
race—track in Dublin, but I realize that
readers of Our Dumb Animals are more
concerned with the humbler members of the
equine family.

Night Shadow

DORIS BALTES

I looked out on the moonlit snow
And saw a tiny shadow pass
Was it a squirrel? I didn’t know,

It scampered by so fast.

But that night, safe in my own bed,
I said a little prayer

That every animal be fed
And warm within its lair.

 

Page 13
Oxen Rule the Roads

NELSON S. BOND

ISITORS to Nova Scotia, amused at
the sight of single- and double-yoked
oxen drawing carts along the highways,
sometimes consider the employment of these
beasts of burden a token of the “backward-
ness” of this maritime province.

The truth of the matter is that Canada’s
easternmost province is among the most
progressive of neighborhoods in its legisla—
tion regarding dumb animals. In questions
of trafﬁc dispute or accident, “right—of—way”
is granted the plodding workers used by the
French Acadians for vehicular transporta-
tion and haulage.

Well—trained oxen are sturdy enough to
stand work that would kill a horse in no
time at all. They have great strength and
endurance, can haul heavy loads of logs,
and — most important — are sure-footed
enough to labor in the roughest kind of
country day after day.

In Nova Scotia the ox—yoke ﬁts around
the horns, rather than the neck of the
beast. This has been demonstrated to re-
lieve the strain on the animal’s shoulders,
thus leaving it comparatively rested at the
end of a day’s labors.

An interesting side—light on Nova Scotia’s
interest in the well—being of its beasts of
burden is brought to light in the records of
the provincial government’s discussion of
trafﬁc during the war days—just before
Nova Scotia abandoned the English “drive
to the left” trafﬁc rule and adopted the
American style of right-hand driving.

An earnest plea was brought forth by
the member from Lunenburg county, on the
picturesque South Shore, that no change
be made in the prevailing custom. “For
years,” he told his fellows, “our oxen have
been accustomed to taking the left—hand side
of the road. A change now would disturb
their set habits and create an unnecessary
hardship on these valuable beasts of bur—
den.”

A woman having the reputation of being
unusually prudent stopped at a neighbor’s
house to borrow the use of the telephone.

She called the butcher.

“You needn’t send up that five cents’
worth of cat meat. The cat caught a mouse.”

 

ON SOUTH SHORE OF NOVA SCOTIA WHERE OX-CARTS ARE USED EXTENSIVELY ON ROADS INACCES-

SIBLE TO AUTOMOBILES AND TOO ROCKY FOR THE LIGHTER HORSE

 

 




 

 

July, 1937

OUR DUMB

ANIMALS

Page 101

Prize Essays for the Zoo and against the Zoo

ERE are the results of the Ameri-

can Humane Education Society’s

essay contest for Arguments for
the Zoo and Arguments against the
Zoo, offered through the columns of
Our Dumb Animals in connection
with the recent Be Kind to Animals
Week.

The cash prize of $25 for the best
essay received presenting arguments
for the zoo, was given to Mrs. Maynard
Shipley (Miriam Allen deFord) of San
Francisco, California. A similar cash
prize of $25 was awarded to Mina M.
Titus of Madison, Maine, the prize for
the best essay presenting the arguments
against the zoo. Following are the
prize-winning essays:

Arguments for the Zoo

Prize Essay, Received $25, Cash

M IRIAM ALLEN DEFORD
(MRS. MAYNARD SHIPLEY)
San Francisco, California

HE kind-hearted spectator who watches

a tiger restlessly pacing its narrow
cage, or a “bad” elephant tethered by a
heavy chain around its foot, may feel that
there can be no argument to justify such
cruelty. But there is another side to the
picture.

Just as many domestic animals would long
ago have become extinct had they not been
protected and nurtured by man for the sake
of their food value, their skins, or their
physical labor, so many wild animals have
been saved from total disappearance at the
hands of hunters by the demands for living
specimens made by the zoological gardens.

Most of us are ﬁnancially unable to travel
to the far places of our planet; and we
should probably never see some of the most
interesting of earth’s creatures if they were
not preserved for us in our local zoos. For
example, in 1935 I visited three cities—New
York, Philadelphia, and San Diego—for the
express purpose of seeing and studying the
only living gorillas in America. My hus-
band, who died in 1934, was a writer and
lecturer on science and a lifelong student of
biology; but he had no opportunity to go to
any of these cities after they acquired the
gorillas, and it was one of his most intense
regrets that he had never seen one of these
rarest of the great apes.

The well-conducted zoo does not simply
cage up a lot of miscellaneous wild animals
for people to stare at; it issues publications,
gives lectures, and has guides and printed
information to instruct its visitors in the
nature, habitat, biological relationships, and
life-histories of its exhibits. The whole
humiliating farce of the anti-evolution up-
roar of the 1920’s might have been avoided
had there been a greater number of well-
equipped and adequately stocked zoos open
to the American public. Certainly no un-
biased person, can seriously consider the
three principal anthropoid apes—the chim-
panzee, the orang-utan, and the gorilla—and
not realize our kinship to them. David Gar-
nett’s fantasy, “The Man in the Zoo,” had
a sound scientiﬁc foundation in its thesis

 

that a properly supplied zoo should include
specimens of homo sapiens as well as of
his cousins!

After all, when we present arguments for
or against the zoo, we must ask ﬁrst of all:
what kind of zoo? I have seen some so—
called zoos that were a disgrace to the hu-
man beings who conducted or tolerated them
—collections of miserable, shabby animals
piled helter—skelter into crowded cages with
small regard for their natural habits or en—
vironment, unprotected from heedless Visi-
tors who fed them improperly or even teased
and poked at them with sticks and umbrel-
las. I have looked at such outrageous shows
and wished very heartily that I could open
the cages and give their inmates a chance
for revenge. But such places are now few
and far between; and they are a long cry
from such magniﬁcently ordered zoos as the
Bronx Zoo in New York City, the Balboa
Park Zoo in San Diego, the Lincoln Park
Zoo in Chicago, and the ﬁnal state of the
Fleishacker Zoo in San Francisco, which is
now undergoing renovation as a WPA
project.

In such places as these, often there are
no barred cages at all for many of the
animals: the bears, the great cats, and the
monkeys live in artiﬁcial reproductions of
their native haunts, with moats to separate
them from the human onlookers. Every
provision is made for their comfort; their
diets are followed in solicitous detail, they
receive medical and surgical attention which
many human beings might well envy, and
even their individual temperaments are
studied to promote their welfare. In conse-
quence they live much longer than they
would ever have lived outside of captivity,
so far as average life-duration is concerned.
(The longest recorded lifetimes of certain
species of animals are sometimes shorter
than the longest so far recorded of the same
animal in captivity.) The life of most wild
animals is brief and ﬁlled with pain and
fear. Animals captured in full maturity are
not much desired by good zoos; it is too hard
to accustom them to a new mode of exist-
ence, to give them the conﬁdence which will
enable them to live quietly, to mate, and
to breed. But an animal caught young,
or born and bred in a zoo, is far happier
there than anywhere else; indeed, it would
die speedily and horribly if released.

Men like the late Dr. William T. Horna-

day understand and love their charges.
If a zoo were a place of torture such
men would never consent to preside
over one. In Panama I saw the un-
named keeper of a little private zoo,
admirably clean and well managed, go
into a pit with a number of vicious and
poisonous reptiles. I asked him if he
were not afraid—there was one delight-
ful species of lizard which whipped
about it with a razor-like tail. He
laughed. “Oh course not,” he said,
“They know me.” The director of a
really efﬁcient zoo is not only head
physician, business executive, and ani-
mal trainer, but the friend of his
charges as well. I have seen a chim-
panzee welcome its keeper with ecstasy
and weep aloud. when he left. I have
seen a tapir, a stupid beast, run across a
wide enclosure to watch its keeper walk
past, in the hope that he would stop and
notice it.

No, one might as well ask: what are
the arguments for prisons, or hospitals, or
schools? Some of these are dreadful places
which ought to be torn down—and so are
some zoos. But if you ever saw a solemn—
eyed little boy gazing breathlessly at his
ﬁrst lion or polar bear, you would never
advocate the abolition of any well-equipped
and properly conducted zoo.

Arguments against the Zoo

Prize Essay, Received $25, Cash

MINA M. TITUS
Madison, Maine

HE strongest and most vitally appeal-

ing argument against the zoo is its
inhumaneness. No lover of animals, no
person with a spark of pity or understand-
ing still in his heart, no person who has ever
known the pangs of suffering or endured the
depths of deprivation and loneliness can
visit a zoo and enjoy it. Rather he W111
burn up inwardly with shame and indigna-
tion for a civilization that lawfully permlts
man to torture through aching years of
lonely, restless, longing conﬁnement, such
masses of God’s helpless creatures by H1m
created wild and free.

However vast the area allotted to any
species of wild life it approximates man’s
solitary conﬁnement in a prison cell. What
are a few rods, or acres, or yet miles of
fenced and bounded earth, hard—packed and
worn by ceaselessly pacing feet that were
made by nature to roam uncounted mlles
daily across the ever-varied surface of for—
est or jungle, mountain or plain! Muscles
ache and go weak from lack of exercise,
wild hearts are torn with longing for free-
dom and others of their own kind, dis-
positions grow ﬁerce and ugly, or despalr-
ingly docile and morose. But living always
and on the alert is that one unchanging
desire of all caged things—the desire to
escape and be forever free.

All wild creatures instinctively fear man,
have an aversion to the close presence of
human beings. It is only because these 1n

(Continued on page 112)

 

 

 

 

 




 

.4pr.1937

To “Yankee”

In sending to Our Dumb Animals the following
verses written by her husband, Ex-Congressman
HERBERT C. PELL, Mrs. Pell Writes: “We both
love your paper, Our Dumb Animals, and are happy
to know there is such a publication.” “Yankee”
was a little wire-haired terrier who died in January.

He will not be there to welcome
When I come through the hall,
There’ll be no more quiet cuddling

And no noisy games of ball.

He’ll no longer watch the gardeners
He’ll no longer lick my hand

Or sit up and beg for supper
0r jump at my command.

He came to us a puppy
The friend of man and boy
His little happy playful life
Taught much of love and joy.

He wanted to be noticed
He begged me to declare

By stroke or pat or kindly word
Just that I was aware,

How much he really needed me
How much I ﬁlled his heart

I knew his love and faithfulness
And now today we part.

He’d shared so much of happiness
He came to me for care ’

In darkness that he could not see
The unknown fear to share.

His love drew all my love to him
Today is not the end,

For you will live still in my heart, .
My little faithful friend.

Fair Play Observed by Bears

ROSA M. HALEMBA

HILE hiking in the Blue mountains

one time we chanced to come across
a bit of wild life that convinced us that
even in animal circles fair play must be
observed.

We happened across a mother bear with
three cubs. Bears as a rule have only two
offspring, so three of them were a bit
unusual. Being on the windward side, we
hid ourselves behind the brush and watched
the bears. Two of the cubs started a wrest—
ling match. When one started biting the
other, the third ambled over and cuffed the
offender on the ear. Then the two wrestlers
pounced on the third cub, and a good time
of rolling, clawing and growling was had
by all.

One cub started whining—probably the
one on the bottom. The mother bear, who
had been lying asleep, raised her head and
growled loudly. The whining continued, so
the old bear walked over to the cubs and
started cufﬁng right and left and sepa-
rated the trio.

Then she went back to her dozing.

We have received from the secretary of
the Hamilton County S. P. C. A., Cincinnati,
Ohio, about 100 signatures of persons who
have agreed to the Jack London Club
pledge. Do you know what this is? If not,
write to 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, for
full particulars, telling about what we are
trying to do to stop a great cruelty.

OUR DUMB

 

DID THIS OKLAHOMA DOG KNOW HE
WAS POSING FOR HIS PICTURE?

The Dog’s Great Need

DORIS HUGHES»

 

OGS, folks tell you, require food, suf-

ﬁcient water to drink and a dry place
to sleep in. True enough. But they also
need that something which child specialists
claim all babies are entitled to along with
the latest scientiﬁc feeding, and that is hu—
man affection or just plain loving.

Like a kiddie brought up in an orphan-
age, there is something wistful and haunt-
ing in the eyes of a dog who is not regarded
as a companion by the family with whom he
makes his home.

An absent-minded pat once in a while
isn’t enough for the eager four-footed crea-
ture in your house. Make a friend of your
dog. Talk to him and try to understand
his little ways as he tries so hard to do
what you want him to. With patience and
some forbearance on your part during the
puppy stage, there will soon develop be—
tween you and your dog an understanding
and fellowship which the years can never
diminish and a loyalty on the animal’s part
which even the Great Reaper himself cannot
sever.

Remember, too, a sensitive dog can make
himself sick with fretting when you scold
him. Don’t hold your grudge too long—you
can’t if you really love your dog—for he’ll
develop a kind of homesickness from being
shut out of your good favor. Home to your
pet is you, yourself. As long as he feels
your affection, hunger and cold worry him
but little, but to lose your love, as he be—
lieves he has done when you are angry with
him, is to lose everything he holds dear.
Be fair to your four-footed friend. Punish
him very, very rarely, and love him much.
In short, try to be worthy of his almost
more than human devotion to you and yours.

ANIMALS

 

Page 55
Buddy Writes a Letter

ADRIAN ANDERSON

UDDY had a dog named “Thump.”

They were great pals, and after school
enjoyed many happy hours together. But
now Thump is gone. An automobile, driven
by a hurrying, unhe-eding motorist, ran over
Thump, and kept right on going. And the
little dog was dead.

Buddy was heart—broken, but even in the
midst of his grief he thought of other boys
and their dogs, and so he wrote a letter.
Here it is, just as it appeared upon the edi—
torial page of The Birmingham (Ala)
News:

Say you hit—and-run drivers. The one
who hit my dog on Fifth Avenue, South.
Won’t you drive more careful? Am
only 12 years old. But Thump, my

dog, gave me lots pleasure after
school. He gone now. But my heart
awful sad.

And it ’awful hard for me coming
home after school not having Thump
greet me.

JUST BUDDY

Buddy’s letter started something. The
great paper which had published it struck
out with an eloquent, heartfelt editorial,
calling upon the public to witness this boy’s
grief and take care that other Thumps were
not destroyed and other Buddies were not
plunged into poignant childish sorrow. And
the Birmingham Humane Society, deeply
sensible to this boy’s loss, was quick to
promise that the problem would be dealt
with by law.

At a more propitious time, in the words
of the Society, effort will be made to secure
the passage of a bill in Alabama fashioned
after the law enacted in the state of New
York last year, requiring a driver Who
runs over a dog or other animal either to
stop and notify the owner or, if the owner
cannot be found, to go to the nearest station
and report the accident.

“This law,” said The Birmingham News,
“tends to increase the sense of responsibility
of automobile drivers with regard to dogs
and other animals. Knowing that the law
requires him to stop and report such an
accident, the driver is likely to be more
careful of animals on streets and high-
ways.”

And so, because a boy has written a
brave, unselﬁsh letter, his little dog, crushed
beneath the wheels of a speeding motor car,
becomes a martyr to a noble cause—the
cause of safety to animals on the city
streets, the wanton destruction of which all
too often brings inconsolable grief to ten-
der, childish hearts.

Wagner’s Love of Dogs

Wagner, the great composer, was a great
lover of dogs. Madame Wagner once told
some one that the composition of “Die
Meistersinger” was delayed for months be-
cause Wagner had taken in a sick, aban-
doned dog to care for and cure. Bitten by
the dog, the wound in his hand became so
serious that he could not use a pen.

His patience was put to an exasperating
test, but the dog was not allowed to suffer,
owing to the great musician’s devoted care.

JEAN A. BISHOP

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

"_ gr; '-__.‘.‘1 i .: . .1." . XL} TRTZ-I—f. .:,. l ' ' "I " ' ' V ”""‘"" " 7" '

Page 11;
@112 Earth nf mvrrg

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

E. A. MARYOTT, State Organizer
PLEDGE

I will try to be kind to all living creatures and
try to protect them from cruel usage.

The American Humane Education Society will send
to every person who forms a Band of Mercy of thirty
members, and sends the name chosen for the Band
and the name and post-oﬂ‘ice address of the presi-
dent who has been duly elected, special Band of
Mercy literature and a gilt badge for the president.
Send to headquarters for prices of literature and
Band of Mercy Supplies.

NEW BANDS OF MERCY

Eight hundred and ﬁfty—nine new Bands
of Mercy were reported during November.
Of these there were 258 in Illinois, 150 in
Massachusetts, 122 in Maine, 107 in Geor-
gia, 87 in South Carolina, 54 in Florida, 84
in Virginia, 27 in Newfoundland, seven each
in Pennsylvania and Tennessee, and one
each in India, Minnesota, Mississippi, Mis-
souri, New York and South Dakota.

Total number of Bands of Mercy organ-
ized by Parent American Society, 219,969.

“Have You Forgotten?”
EARLE FRANKLIN BAKER

Have you forgotten the names of flowers
The wet, sweet fragrance of April showers,
Or the flight of geese to lands afar—

The silvery curve of a falling star?

Have you forgotten your botany class

And every tree and blade of grass,

Dame Nature’s fountains and crystal
streams

Where the golden sunlight slants its beams?

Have you forgotten the song-bird’s choir
Trilling sweet music from twig and spire,
Or the graceful swan on the shady lake
With water lilies nodding in her wake?

Have you forgotten the tireless pace
Of wild things caged in the circus place,
How the human. creatures flock in to see
The King of beasts lose his dignity?

If you have forgotten each bird and flower
And all the wonders of Nature’s power,
Then you and God are far apart,

And cruelty hides within your heart!

An Invaluable Almanac

That well—known Boston institution, “The
Old Farmer’s Almanac,” has made its ap-
pearance for 1937. It contains 108 pages
packed with useful information. In addi-
tion to the regular astronomical calculations
and farmer’s calendar there is a wealth of
material, including automobile laws of the
New England states, poetry by Robert Frost
and others, articles by Joseph C. Lincoln and
writers on special topics, recipes for house-
w1ves, detailed explanation of the Social Se—
curity Act, and a hundred and one addi—
tional features. Price, 15 cents, at book—
sellers throughout New England, and else-
where. Little, Brown & Co., publishers,
Boston.

Be careful in winter to see that your pets
are protected from the cold.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Jan. 1937

Storks and Their Habits

LYDIA GRAHAM

in

“Animal Ways”

Photograph by the Author

E had been looking for storks’ nests
W everyday as we motored through
Denmark. At last, just as we were
hurrying to the ferry for Sweden, we caught

sight of a nest perched on the very new
roof of a modern farm—building.

These storks had made use of a large
in diameter

frame-work about ﬁve feet

 

ONE OF THE YOUNG BIRDS
SQUATTED DOWN

which the owner of the farm had placed
on the roof—ridge in the hope that storks
would nest there, for in most European
countries it is considered to bring good
luck to the house if a pair of storks choose
to build their nest on the roof.

When ﬁrst we caught sight of the nest
four birds were standing erect upon it.
When full grown the white stork is four
feet tall, so that they looked very big even
from a hundred yards away. As we
approached very carefully, making a Wide
circuit, in the hope of getting photographs,
one of the young birds squatted down.
His head just shows in the photograph here.
Then the other young one was made to
sit down, and the parents, a little agitated,
came to the edge of the nest to see what we
were doing. They looked at us with sus—
picion. Two snaps had just been taken
when they decided that they did not like
the look of us or the camera, and off they
sprang from the nest, the two young birds
following, wheeling in great circles in the
air, till all the sky seemed full of wings.

Storks used occasionally to nest in
England, but they have not done so for
many years now, nor are they so plentiful
in Denmark as they used to be. They seem
to prefer the warmer countries of central
and eastern Europe. There they are nu-
merous, and become very fearless and tame,
walking down the street, as if they were
people, and on to the ﬁsh—market or har-
bor in the hope of picking up what is thrown
away. Storks are protected in most coun-

tries of Europe. They do good service by
eating harmful reptiles and by devouring
offal.

They spend the winter months in Africa,
both going and returning in huge ﬂocks,
sometimes as many as a thousand in one
group. When they choose to make a noise
the sound of their wings is terriﬁc, but they
can also ﬂy quite silently. If they are ex—
cited they make a curious clicking sound
with their beaks, like the snapping of a
strong metal spring.

Storks look after their young with great
devotion and tenderness; the young birds
care for the old storks, not leaving them to
a lonely old age. Perhaps this is the rea-
son why they are regarded with romance
and affection, and why many stories and
legends have been woven about them. It
certainly is fascinating to watch them, as
they walk swiftly along the edge of a
corn—ﬁeld, with their long beaks sweeping
in and out of the standing corn, searching
for mice which rarely escape them, or when
they stand—each bird on one leg—in a
shimmering pool, looking as though they
were lost in contemplation, or sound asleep,
while in reality they are watching the water
with one eye half open, and will pounce
without fail on any unwary ﬁsh that comes
their way.

Facts about the Chameleon

GRACE B. POPKINS

Do you know why the chameleon takes on
the color of its surroundings? Why, at one
moment it is a brilliant green, the next it
may be a gray—black, or later covered with
yellow spots? This is nature’s way of pro—
tecting this little lizard that is so slow it
would soon be exterminated by snakes and
birds if it did not have the power of making
itself almost invisible. These color changes
are accomplished by layers of cells, contain-
ing yellow, black and red coloring, beneath
its transparent skin. These cells are under
the control of the nervous system.

Another unusual characteristic of this
lizard is its great protruding eyes, which
are entirely covered with eyelids except for
a tiny, round hole, and the lids move with
the constantly rolling eyes. What is still
more amazing, the chameleon can roll its
eyes independently in any direction, so that
one eye may be looking at a fly in front of
it while the other keeps watch over the ani—
mal’s shoulder.

The chameleon catches its food by shoot-
ing out its tongue, like a flash of lightning,
more than half the length of its body and
catching insects on the sticky end.

New Bound Volumes

Bound volumes of Our Dumb Animals for
1936 contain 192 pages of reading matter,
all relating to animals, with about 150
attractive illustrations. Sent, postpaid, for
only one dollar to any address in the world.
Early orders will be appreciated.

 

 




‘ ‘BALLOT, ’ ’

33

’

SOCIETY ~

and THE AMERICAN I-IUMANE EDUCATION

0
"1
G
H
S
l
L
H
O
H
O
n
D
H
8
H
H
G

3

 

ENJOYS BIRTHDAY CAKE

(See page 36)

07/
f. /

///5

.V

THE MASSACHUSETTS SOCIETY FOR THE
PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS

 

 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 80

They Stopped the Clock

LOIS LADUE

ERE is a case where birds interfered
H in the “march of time.”

The city hall in our city of Paterson is a
large building occupying the space of a
block. It is three stories high above the
ground and has a clock tower, rising still
higher, in the center of it. This tower is
very prominent and conspicuous with plenty
of empty space around it due to the wide
spread of the building below. At the top of
the tower is the clock which is to ﬁgure
prominently in a later paragraph.

Every evening, early or late depending on
the time of the year, birds come from all
parts of the city and outlying suburbs to
gather on the city hall and on the buildings
around it. They come in great droves, star-
lings and English sparrows, and perch them—
selves on every available ledge. The chat-
tering they make is so loud that it can be
heard in the streets above the noise of autos
and pedestrians. Many passers—by, even
those familiar with the scene, stop and stare
up at the sky to watch the birds ﬂying in
and out and darting back and forth between
buildings. It is a friendly scene and one
enjoyed by the citizens of Paterson, though
several years ago, a situation arose which
for a time dimmed the popularity and even
threatened the extinction of the birds.

The special goal of these nightly visitors
is the clock which is illuminated and thus
doubly attractive. Several years ago, the
citizens of Paterson noticed that this clock
had a habit of stopping around a certain
hour every day. For some time this occur-
ence was a subject of puzzlement. Finally
it was discovered that groups of birds,
gathering in the early evening on the hands
of the clock, caused them to stop! This was
regarded as quite a joke but it didn’t stop
the birds from stopping the clock. The
citizens of Paterson decided that serious
steps must be taken.

A conference was held and as the upshot
of it, rockets were sent up to burn the birds
out. The shamefulness of this act was
lessened by the fact that the birds, starlings
and English sparrows often cause our
loved song birds to desert the neighborhood
the former frequent. The rockets, however,
proved ineffective, for in a short while, the
birds were right back again stopping the
clock!

By this time, the matter had attracted
great interest and had even broken into the
newspapers. Another conference was held
and this time a more humane plan was hit
upon. Why not do something to keep the
birds off the clock without keeping them off
the rest of the building? A close wire
frame was placed over the clock’s face!

This plan has proved as effective as the
other was ineffective and the birds no
longer interfere with the “march of time.”
The honest citizens of Paterson can now
enjoy their cheerful maneuverings and yet
take advantage of the service rendered by
the clock.

A male wren won’t allow any other male
wrens in his chosen territory, which may be
an acre or more in size.

OUR DUMB
TheDoe

JOHN RITCHEY

Frailly and framed in light she stood,
W’ith lovely hazel eyes, to brood

Upon the slanting snow that made
Her ﬁeld a frozen ghostly glade.

And as for food the icy ground
Little yielded, little found

Became a famine and the white
Scarcely changed the dark from light.

She stood and dreamed of golden sun
And apple shoots and speckled fawn.

She moved and snow fell on her shoulder,
Her eyes were hungry now and older.

Reception to Mrs. Fisher

HE Women’s Auxiliary of the Massa—

chusetts S. P. C. A. held a reception
and afternoon tea for Mrs. Agnes P.
Fisher on the afternoon of Tuesday, April
6, at headquarters, 180 Longwood Avenue,
with Mrs. Charles Staniek as chairman of
the general committee. The regular busi-
ness meeting was held at two o’clock with
the reception following. There was music
and an interesting movie entertainment.
Members of the Auxiliary and others in—
terested in the work were cordially wel-
comed by President Edith Washburn
Clarke and her committee, and given an
opportunity to inspect the Angel] Animal
Hospital.

Mrs. Fisher is now the oldest living
member of the Women’s Auxiliary, and at
eighty—seven years of age is still the active
head of the work committee, which makes
the gauzes, pillows and bandages used in
the hospital. She was one of the charter
members when the Auxiliary was organ—
ized, seventeen years ago, and has been
chairman of her committee ever since.

Assisting Mrs. Staniek on the committee
were Mrs. John A. Dykeman, Mrs. George
Ramlose, Mrs. Charles C. Hoyt, Mrs. Wil—
lard C. Bliss, Mrs. Harry Cole, Mrs. Ed-
ward C. Brown, Mrs. Herbert E. Prescott,
Mrs. William J. McDonald, Mrs. Edward
K. Bennett, Mrs. William W. Haswell, Mrs.
Arthur W. Hurlburt, Mrs. George B.
Suder, Mrs. Richard Taylor, Mrs. William
J. Underwood, Mrs. Christine N. Walker,
and Mrs. Frank Towne.

ANIMALS

May, 1937

 

IN THE EDITOR’S LIBRARY

 

THE DOG OWNER’S HANDBOOK, by
Fredson Thayer Bowers

A survey of the contents of this well made
and “guaranteed” dog book is suﬁ‘icient to
recognize its value to all dog owners, pres-
ent and prospective. It is written by one
who has been a long—time owner, breeder,
exhibitor and licensed judge of dogs, which
fact gives it its best guaranty of authentic-
ity. It covers the essential and important
points in relation to the principal breeds
that are recognized in this country; the
information is presented in deﬁnite form;
it is divested of technicalities, and by so
much it is made of practical service to those
who seek the best advice and enlighten—
ment.

The dogs themselves are classiﬁed into
seven groups and each individual breed is
treated under the following topical order,
,which, we think, is an excellent one: origin,
original purpose, present use, place best
suited for, height, weight, and color, special
characteristics, special care, points in a
puppy and, lastly, the average minimum
price. This portion of the book should
answer a multitude of questions that may
arise in the mind of any prospective dog
purchaser, or of one who is in doubt about
the right dog for him to select. Other chap-
ters discuss the feeding, care, training and
showing of the dog, and ﬁnally a long list
of miscellaneous but pertinent questions that
commonly arise are well answered.

There are thirty—two pages of select
photographs which illustrate the best ex-
amples of the breeds described.

273 pp. $2.75. Houghton Mifﬂin Co.,
Boston.

 

 

Our Dumb Animal’s

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals: 46* Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston Ofﬁce: 180 Longwood Av-
enue.

Address all communications to Boston.

TERMS
One dollar per year. Postage free to any part of
the world.
All dollar subscriptions sent direct to the office en-
title the sender to membership in either of our two
Societies.

RATES OF MEMBERSHIP IN

THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
OR THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.

Active Life $100 00 Active Annual $10 00

Associate Life 50 00 Associate Annual 5 00

Sustaining 20 00 Annual 1 00
Children’s $0.75

Checks and other payments may be sent to ALBERT
A. POLLARD, Treasurer, 180 Longwood Avenue,
Boston.

Manuscripts should be addressed to the Editor, 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston.

 

 

TO OUR FRIENDS

In making your will, kindly bear in mind that the corporate title of our Society is “The
Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals”; that it is the second
incorporated (March, 1868) Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals in the country,
and that it has no connection with any other similar Society.

Any bequest especially intended for the beneﬁt of the Angel] Memorial Animal Hospital
should, nevertheless, be made to The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals “for the use of the Hospital,” as the Hospital is not incorporated but is the
property of that Society and is conducted by it.

FORM or BEQUEST

I give to The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (or
to The American Humane Education Society), the sum of ..........................
dollars (or, if other property, describe the property).

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

Page 82

 

IN THE EDITOR’S LIBRARY

 

 

LAUGH, CLOWN, LAUGH! Helen Trevel—
yan.

The author of this book of a half—dozen
chapters and of striking title is also an
actress and so perfectly familiar with the
theatrical stage. She is one, we believe,
in whom all genuine animal lovers may
place their fullest conﬁdence. In “Heaven’s
Rage,” issued but a few months ago, she
laid bare the facts and the cruelties too
long concealed from the public’s knowledge.

“Laugh, Clown, Laugh!” has a wider
scope, for in it Miss Trevelyan takes as
her subject, zoos, trapping, hunting, and the
use of wild animals in ﬁlms and circus
performances. And as one reads the story
of her own remarkable experience when she
asked to be allowed to watch a circus ani-
mal being trained, one is more ready than
ever to take her word against that of any
proprietor or trainer of animals.

One of Miss Trevelyan’s chief gifts is un—
que-stionably her profound understanding of
animal psychology. Her book is not only a
protest against cruelty; it gives us fresh
insight into an animal’s life and world.
She has seen how ﬁne the relationship be—
tween us and our own pets or other animals
can be.

Such a well—written, lively and sensible
book, relying on common sense and not on
sensationalism, deserves to make a big ap-
peal to all interested in animal welfare, and
to be widely circulated among those who
are still asleep to the cruelties of animal
exploitation.

It will be our desire to promote the circu-
lation of this book here in the United
States, especially among the members of
our Jack London Club and we hope to re-
print extracts from the author’s own words,
for the beneﬁt of our readers.

116 pp., 3/6, net. The C. W. Daniel Co.,
Ltd., 40 Great Russell St., London.

THE MASTER OF MILLSHAVEN, Clar-
ence Hawkes.

Another volume from the pen of the blind
writer of Hadley! Despite the handicap of
having lost much of his property in the
terriﬁc ﬂood of early 1936, Mr. Hawkes
does not let the year go by without bring—
ing out a new book, this time a story which
will delight the hearts of young and old.
The type of character portrayal is shown in
the dedication: “To my Dear Wife, after
whose courageous life I have modeled the
heroine of this book.” A prominent New
England newspaper speaks of the author as
“a modern hero.” On a recent birthday, Mr.
Hawkes declared that despite the loss of
his right leg and of his eye-sight, “It’s been

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

a happy life, all in all, and I am satisﬁed
if through my books I have taught to chil-
dren my love for wild life and the necessity
for conservation.” All his books are 100
per cent wholesome, and “The Master of
Millshaven” is no exception.

190 pp. $2. Chapman & Grimes, Boston.

Genius Is Merciful

CHRIS SEWELL

T is a striking fact in England that

among our most powerful allies in the
anti—blood Sports campaign. are men and
women dedicated to the Arts.

Take. such outstanding ﬁgures of the
past as Thomas Moore or William Blake,
the latter of whom wrote:

“Ea-ch outcry of the hunted hare
A fibre from the brain doth tear.”

Or notice Dr. Johnson’s s-onorous at—
tack: “It is very strange and very mel—
ancholy that the paucity of human. pleas—
ures should persuade us ever to call hunting
one of them.”

It was John Ruskin who, on the subject
of the pursuit of the otter made the mem—
orable criticism: “Reﬂect whether that
which is best worthy of contemplation in
a hound be its ferocity, or in an otter
its agony, or in a human being its victory
over a little ﬁsh—catching creature a foot
long.”

Leigh Hunt and George du Maurier
were also vocal: so was Oscar Wilde:
“The unspeakable in full pursuit of the
uneatable” has indeed passed into a prov—
erb. It was the latter’s description of a
fox-hunting Squire.

Wordsworth told us: “Never to blend
our pleasure or our pride with sorrow of
the meanest thing that feels,” and many
other of our poets (notably Browning,
Tennyson, and Shelley) have sung with
the utmost tenderness the beauty and pain
of our “brothers and sisters” the animals.
Nor in this twentieth century does the
cause lack support from the Olympians.

Bernard Shaw slaughters the slaugh-
terer without compunction'. “I believe,” he
says, “that the time will come when a
gentleman found amusing himself with a
gun will feel as compromised as he does
now when found amusing himself with a
whip at the expense of a child or an old
lame horse.”

H. G. Wells insists that in! a better edu-
cated community the “mere witless killing
which is called sport today” will inevi—
tably give place to something more worthy.

 

 

 

TO OUR FRIENDS

In making your will, kindly bear in mind that the corporate title of our Society is “The
Massachusetts Soc1ety for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals”: that it is the second
Incorporated (March, 1868) Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals in the country,
and that it has no connection with any other similar Society.

Any bequest especially intended for the beneﬁt of the Angel] Memorial Animal Hospital
should, nevertheless, be made to The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals “for the use of the Hospital,” as the Hospital is not incorporated but is the
property of that Soc1ety and is conducted by it.

FORM or BEQUEST

I give to The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruel t An' al
to The American Humane Education Society), the sum of ............ ty . i). . . .nn . s. .(f’i‘
dollars ( or, If other property, describe the preperty).

 

 

Feb. 1937

Galsworthy and Eden Phillpotts have made
memorable utterances, as have Dean Inge
John Maseﬁeld, Marjorie Bowen, Hall Rat:
cliffe, and others.

And our younger generation seem even
more ﬁercely indignant. We have just
lost,. alas! Gerald Gould, poet, scholar
brilliant reviewer, and vice-president of
the League for the Prohibition of Cruel
Sports: but Beverly Nichols (another vice-
preSident) is an outstanding protagonist
of the animal cause—so much so that a
short .time ago, when attending the cine—
ma With Ivor Novello and Noel Coward
the .three young men raised Cain wheii
a.film dealing (if my memory serves)
With the trapping of big game was shown.

Actors feel quite as strongly on this
question. as do- writers: Sybil Thorndike
is an outstanding example; and she makes
no secret of it.

I could, if space permitted, go on in—
creasing the list, but perhaps I have said
enough to prove that to the sensitive
soul of genius, with its quick susceptibili—
ties and its wide understanding, “killing
for play” is hateful and hideous.

Collie’s Long Vigil Over

The long vigil of “Shep,” a collie dog
who waited for twelve years at the elevator
entrance in St. Anthony’s Hospital, Rock
Island, Illinois, for Francis McMahon, his
dead master, is over, says the New York:
Times.

Shep was struck by an automobile in
front of the hospital and badly injured.
He attempted to crawl back into his accus—
tomed place in the hospital and attracted
the attention of Franciscan Sisters. They
could not help him and the dog was shot
by the police.

A few years ago the story of Shep’s vigil
was carried in English and foreign lan-
guage newspapers and magazines through-
out the world. His master, on entering
the hospital in 1924, had told Shep to
wait. Accustomed to following commands
from McMahon, the dog had, never deserted
his post except for short intervals. Mc-
Mahon’s body was taken from the hospital
by another door the day after he entered.

 

 

Our Dumb Animals

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston Ofﬁce: 180 Longwood
Avenue.

Address all communications to Boston.

TERMS

One dollar per year. Postage free to any part of
the world.

All dollar subscriptions sent direct to the office en-
title the sender to membership in either of our two
Societies.

RATES OF MEMBERSHIP IN
THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
OR THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.
Active Life $100 00 Active Annual $10 00
Associate Life 50 00 Associate Annual 5 00
Sustaining 20 00 Annual 1 00
Children’s $0.7 5

Checks and other payments may be sent to ALBERT
A. POLLARD, Treasurer, 180 Longwood Avenue,
Boston.

Manuscripts should be addressed to the Editor, 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston.

 




 

Jan. 1937’

      

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Talking Birds

MRS. F. H.

FOSTER

“T is quite a common thing to hear parrots talk and we
have often been amused at the aptness of some of their
remarks. Until lately we did not known that budgerigars
(budgies, as they are called) could be taught to speak.

Budgies are very similar to love birds, the pretty little
birds that sit with their heads touching and, at fairs, tell
fortunes by picking out a card for anyone who pays a fee.
They are a little bigger and their tails are longer but we
see them in all the same beautiful colors, different shades of
blue, green and yellow.

In their natural state budgies live in holes in trees. In
summer the mother bird lays an egg every other day and
she or the male bird sits on them all the time. In a fort-
night the first tiny bird comes out of its shell, and for two
weeks one more appears every other day.

The parent birds have to work very hard all day bringing
seeds and grubs to fill the hungry mouths. They always
begin with the baby and, as their beaks are hooked like a
parrot’s, the mother tips the little chap on his back and,
when he opens his mouth, pops the seed in.

They never make a mistake in feeding; each baby is fed
in turn.

Budgies cannot learn to talk by themselves, they do not
pick up words like parrots. They have to be taken from the
nest when they are babies and the one who feeds them
.must teach them to speak.

In one instance a man took two tiny birds to his ofﬁce and,
to the amusement of the clerks, every two hours put the
budgies on their backs so as to place a pill in each mouth,
talking to them all the time. It requires great patience,

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

 

 

 

and only a great lover of birds is successful.

Budgies are fairly common in South Africa but South
America is really their home. They must never be kept in
small cages. A large aviary is, the best place for them. Two
or three times during the day they ought to be allowed to
come into the house. The talking ones are so tame that they
will perch on their owner’s finger or on his shoulder. We

cannot call them song birds, but when they are happy their
chirping is quite tuneful.

The Old Year

Behold the dying Year,
With his few locks white and thin!
His form is bent with its load of care,
And a great world’s sorrow and sin.
96 96 96

Behold! a light in the east!
A ray of glory thrown!

The brave New Year comes in with a shout,
The old‘nian dies with a groan.

FRED LAWRENCE KNOWLES

How Many Animals?

ALFRED I. TOOKE

There are only twenty—five letters in this diagram, but
how many animal names do you suppose are hidden in it?
Start at some letter and move one square at a time in any
direction (but you may not use the same letter twice in any
one name) until you have spelled out the name of an animal.
Then start at another letter (or the same one again, if you
like) and spell out another animal’s name. You should be
able to get at least ten without much trouble. Fifteen is
a very good score, but it is possible to spell the names of at
least eighteen. .

Correct answers will be printed next month.

I 2,,‘3 4 5

R

 

 

“-4

7 8

[T10

 

[2.

A
Y
7E
D

25

II I?)

0‘” 0°:

KI
x

 

5

I IE |

NO

 

22 2

n“ O
:0“ r'
It}

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

July, 1937
Voices of the Wood

CLARENCE M. LINDSAY

The voices of the woodland
Are half the forest’s charm!
When silence seems to brood, and
Its hush and peace disarm;
We hear the fluttering of wings;
From some brown bush a warbler sings;
Song for a brief space sweetly rings
Amid the calm!

The stillness of the green aisles
Is soothing to the soul!

Yet, there are sounds between—whiles,
Which lure us and cajole!

The pattering of tiny feet;

A scurrying rabbit, shy and fleet;

Bob White’s clear call from thick retreat—
Or grouse’s roll!

0, pleasant are the arches
Of woodlands dim and still!
The tall pines and the larches;
The silver-rippled rill.
But 0 to hear the liquid flood
With which the brown thrush ﬁlls the wood,
Singing as never human could—
A golden trill!

Water for the Birds

FERN BERRY

OU are bound to feel pretty “lazy”

during the heat of the hottest days of
mid-summer, when the pools of water are
dried to dust and even the lakes are lowered
by the heat that endures for hours each
day for many weeks. But—please remem-
ber that the birds cannot go to the ice water
pitcher or to the water tap or pump and
draw a fresh cool drihk, at will. Their
poor drooping wings and open beaks tell
the tale of their agony. They thirst!

Turn on the sprinkler for an hour or
two. If it costs a few pennies, add it to
your charity fund, or, if you cannot do this,
place shallow pans or dishes of cool water
in the shade and renew the water often.
The writer built a shallow pool three and
one-half feet across, using cement and
stones to make it waterproof. A hose
attached to a water pipe ﬁlls this pool to
the brim with cool water each afternoon.
Stones were set into the cement to extend
out into the water, offering a perch for the
birds to stand upon. Fifteen robins, several
swallows (white-breasted), orioles, yellow
warblers, and many other small birds drank
and bathed here. The pool is surrounded
by wild ferns and cedar shrubs and it is
ornamental as well as useful.

Attractive Bookmark

A pasteboard bookmark, 2 x 6 inches,
printed on both sides in red and blue, has
been published by the American Humane
Education Society and is offered at one cent
each, postpaid in any quantity. On one
side appears the seal of the Society and a
reproduction of the S. P. C. A., Be Kind
to Animals button with animals’ heads, and
“A Humane Prayer.” On the other side is
a notice of Our Dumb Animals. This is an
interesting and useful novelty for circula—
tion in libraries and elsewhere.

OUR

DUMB ANIMALS

Page 103

Bird Life on the Great Barrier Reef

EWEN K. PATTERSON

 

CLOUDS OF BIRDS LEAVING A GREAT BARRIER REEF ISLAND
AT DAYBREAK TO SPEND THE DAY FISHING

N the Great Barrier Reef, Australia pos-

sesses one of the most unique and inter-
esting geographical features on the globe.
The Reef is one of the wonders of the
modern world. It is the world’s largest
coral wall, which stretches for approxi-
mately twelve hundred and sixty miles along
the eastern coast of the State of Queensland,
is miles wide in many places, and is of an
average height of 180 feet. The full extent
of this amazing coral formation is approxi-
mately 100 square miles, and it varies from
ten miles to ninety miles distant from the
mainland.

The most interesting and fascinating fea-
ture of this Reef is the astounding bird life
on its numerous coral and sandy islets.
Here one may see sights not to be witnessed
in any other part of the world—islands so
teeming with birds that it is impossible to
walk on them without stepping on a bird or
a nest of eggs.

There are millions of birds on the islands.
There are white-capped noddy terns, web-
footed sea-birds as large as doves, all vel-
vety black in color, with the exception of a
white patch on top of the head. Thousands
of them ﬂoat and circle above the islands
like big black butterﬂies. There are large
grey terns, which travel at tremendous speed
in wide circles over the sea, occasionally
sweeping and banking with swift sharp
turns to dive down into the water to catch
a ﬁsh. Reef-herons and sea-gulls feed along
the edge of the water, and peculiar long-
legged godwits probe the sand with their
long bills in search of crabs and other
mollusks. Often the bird’s whole bill and
head disappear beneath the sand as it
strikes a victim. Short-tailed shearwaters
(mutton-birds) are there also, the islands
being riddled with their deep burrows in

which they build their nests.

The islands are also visited during the
summer months by great ﬂocks of migratory
birds, which ﬂy 12,000 miles from the Arctic
Circle and spend a day or two on the islands
before resuming their journey to the Ant-
arctic regions, another 10,000 miles to the
south. Some of the birds arrive so exhausted
that they collapse in a heap on the sand,
and can be picked up in one’s hands.

Day and night, almost without cessation,
there is a din of noises on the islands, a pan-
demonium of cries, croaks, howls, cater-
wauling, moans and groans, suggestive of a
perfect debacle of domestic tragedies.

At daybreak each morning, what might
very aptly be termed clouds of birds, their
numbers are so great, rise from the islands
and make out to sea Where they spend the
day ﬁlling their crops to repletion with
feasting on the shoals of small ﬁsh.

At sundown the birds return, and as their
mates and young are being fed there is a
jabber of ear-drum—destroying noises and
bickerings.

The birds appear to have no sense of fear;
they can be handled and carried about with-
out the least resistance. Children take
them from the nests and carry them about,
and they make no attempt to ﬂy away.

At one time “sportsmen” took a heavy
toll of the tame birds, shooting them in
thousands, but to-day the islands are all
sanctuaries under the close protection of
law, and on them the millions of birds live a
happy and noisy existence.

“It says here that lion-tamers are seldom
troubled with rheumatism in their old age.”
“Ah, and I don’t suppose they’re much
troubled with old age!”
—Pearson’s Weekly

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 126
@112 Earth nf myrrg

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary
E. A. MARYOTT, State Organizer
PLEDGE
I will try to be kind to all living creatures and
try to protect them from cruel usage.

The American Humane Education Society will send
to every person who forms a Band of Mercy of thlrty
members, and sends the name chosen for the Band
and the name and post-ofﬁce address of the pres1—
dent who has been duly elected, special Band of
Mercy literature and a gilt badge for the pres1dent.
See inside front cover for prices of literature and
Band of Mercy Supplies.

NEW BANDS OF MERCY

Eight hundred and seven new Bands of
Mercy were reported during June. Of these
553 were in Illinois, 186 in Georgia, 32 in
Massachusetts, 17 in Maine, 12 in Texas,
six in Virginia and one in Missouri.

Total number of Bands of Mercy organ-
ized by Parent American Society, 224,907.

Whose Cats Are These?

MARGARET SIMPSON

S-S-S-S-SST!
Gr-r—r—r-rrr !

Here is the case of one of the strangest
battles outside the realms of fairyland.

“Toodles,” a ﬁve-year-old Spitz dog, and
“Jeeps,” a year—old brindle cat, are the dis—
puting parties. They both live in the same
house and belong to the same mistress,
Mrs. J. W. Parrett, 1257 East Allen St.,
Fort Worth, Texas. Before the advent of
four kittens into the household of Mrs.
Jeeps, things were peaceful and quiet, but
since the coming of the little cats war is on
in earnest between Toodles and Jeeps.

The situation has arisen over the owner-
ship of the kittens. Ordinarily, Jeeps, as
the mother, would be expected to take care
of them, wash their faces in the morning,
give them their meals, and put them to
bed at night. But, unfortunately for
Jeep’s peace of mind, Toodles has ideas of
her own about who should take care of the
kittens. When she ﬁrst discovered them in
Mrs. Jeep’s home, she apprOpriated them
straightway and carried them off one by one
to her own particular corner.

Jeeps doesn’t like the situation and pro-
tests with all her might at every opportun—
ity. Toodles, however, won’t listen to rea—
son. She growls at Jeeps, makes quick
angry dashes at her approach, hovers solicit—
ously over the kittens and tells her to go

“TOODLES,” THE SPITZ, MOTHERING THE KITTENS DESPITE THE

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

chase a ball or whatever might be handy.
Jeeps stays on the job though, and the mo-
ment that Toodles steps outside she grabs
the kittens and away she goes to her lair.
When Toodles returns, she retrieves the
kittens and the unequal battle starts all
over again. The Parrett family have tried
dividing the kittens between the dog and
the cat, but Toodles can’t even stand that.
She immediately takes J eep’s kittens away
from her.

' The domestic situation in ethics is further
complicated by the fact that when Jeeps
was left an orphan kitty in infancy, Toodles
took her over, nursed her, and cared for
her until she was a big, growing cat.

What makes the situation so exceedingly
strange is that Toodles has never been
blessed with any offspring of her own, but
she provides milk for the kittens. The same
thing occured when she cared for Jeeps
when she was a tiny motherless kitten.
Mrs. Parrett says that a veterinarian, who
has been consulted on the question, says
that Toodle’s milk supply is one of those
strange things that sometimes are found.

Sympathy or not, Jeeps is not liking the
situation. Toodles, however, seems to have
things well in hand. She has the kittens
and possession is nine points of the law.

Lowly but Important
ELSIE H. KRAMER

OULD it surprise you to learn

that the common earthworm, or
angleworm as he is also known, is the most
important animal on earth—that our very
life here depends upon his presence? With—
out him we would have no food and could
not live.

Perhaps you think that I am referring
to his use as bait, for ﬁshing, but I’m not.

Without the lowly worm there could be
no agriculture and since “all ﬂesh is grass”
we could not live without it. The use of
the word “grass” in this case means all
kinds of plants, fruits, vegetables and her-
ries. While we do not live entirely upon
vegetable foods, many of the animals from
which we obtain meat do.

The earthworm, or one of its very close
relatives, is found practically everywhere,
even on islands far removed from other
soil. Since they live in burrows which they
dig in the earth, sometimes to a depth of
four or ﬁve feet, the passages which they
dig allow air to circulate freely through
the soil. This is necessary since the roots
of plants must breathe.

 

PROTEST OF “JEEPS,” THE RIGHTFUL MOTHER

Aug. 1937

One of the most serious effects of a
ﬂood is that the worms in the ﬂooded region
are drowned and it takes years before they
are replaced and the soil restored to its
usual fertility. '

Being nocturnal in their habits they sel-
dom come out on top of the ground except
at night or during a rain storm. Though
entirely without eyes or ears they are very
sensitive to light and vibration. You have
probably observed this when trying to col—
lect night—crawlers. You have to proceed
with the utmost caution or they will dis-
appear into their holes before you can grab
them. At a moment like this the worms
have the jump on you because they can
travel either forward or backward with
equal rapidity—they never have to turn
around.

If you run your ﬁnger along the under
side of an earthworm you will feel four
ridges formed by little bristle-like organs
of locomotion. The earthworm can change
the direction in which these bristles are
pointed, thus enabling himself to travel
either forward or backward. He can also
pull them into the body, so they can’t al—
ways be felt easily.

How few of the men and boys, who for
generations have thought of the earthworm
as only bait for ﬁshing, have dreamed of
the part this lowly creature plays in nature.

In digging their tunnels the earth which
the earthworms remove passes through their
digestive systems where it is chemically
changed and is deposited in the form of
castings on the surface of the land. This
causes the top layer of soil to be constantly
changing and is one of the reasons why old
stone walls, walks, foundations of houses,
etc., settle into the ground as the years
go by and eventually become covered and
disappear from sight. It has been esti-
mated that there are enough earthworms
in a ﬁeld of ordinary fertility to bring to
the surface enough soil each year to make
a layer one-ﬁfth of an inch thick!

After years of study and carefully con-
ducted experiments the great Charles Dar-
win estimated that there may be as many
as 50,000 earthworms in a single acre of
fertile land.

.Not only do the earthworms bring earth
up to the surface of the soil but they drag
down into their burrows decaying vegeta-
tion which enriches the soil.

Like all other living things, worms must
breathe. Having no organs of respiration
they depend entirely upon their thin sensi—
tive skin to supply them with the necessary
amount of oxygen. Blood vessels bring
blood very close to the surface of their
bodies and, so long as their skin is moist,
oxygen passes into the blood through the
skin and carbon dioxide passes out. If the
skin becomes dry it cannot serve as a
breathing organ and the worm dies. Earth—
worms cannot, therefore, be found in very
dry or sandy soil and sometimes have to
burrow to quite a depth in order to ﬁnd
sufﬁcient moisture.

Our readers are urged to clip from “Our
Dumb Animals” various articles and re-
quest their local editors to republish. Copies
so mutilated will be made good by us upon
application.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

BASTIAN BROS. CO.
Advertising Specialties
1n
Metal, Leather, and
Celluloid

Indoor Signs, Name Plates

Convention Badges and
Emblems

ROCHESTER, NEW YORK

 

 

 

 

 

 
  

NEMA

(TETRACHORETHYLENE c. 1'.

)
WORM CAPSULES

effectively remove

Large Roundworms
and Hookworms
Dependable, safe, easy.to
give worm treatment.
Keep your dog worm free
and thrifty.
WRITE FOR

- moval
on thePTaqtlcSégg of all

ADDRESS DESK N-58-0
Animal Industry Dept,

PARKE, DAVIS 8: (30., Detroit, Mich.

Drug Stores Sell 'Parke- Davis Products

  
   
   
  
    

  

 
   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THIS SPACE
CONTRIBUTED

 

 

 

 

......... S ”9"”: SKINS NEEMWW1

utlcura Soap
Io Keep them in good meiuon
. (Mira from locallmtalim

 

 

Humane literature and Band of Mercy Supplies

for Be Kind to Animals Week, April 12-17
and Humane Sunday, April 11, 1937

For Sale at 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass, at these prices, postpaid.
Titles in bold-face type are of books or booklets

Humane Calendar for 1937 ........... each, 20 cts.
two for 35 cts.; six for $1.00; $1.80 per doze;

Our Dumb Animals, 1936, bound volume 1.00
Bound volumes for 1934 and 1935 .. . .75
Colored Posters, 17 x 28 inches, with

attractive pictures and verses, Six 1n

the set .
Be Kind to Animals Blotters, 6%, x 3% $0.50 per 100
About the Horse

Black Beauty (English), cloth,.....$1.00 and 50 cts.
What Constitutes Cruelty, Francis H
$0.30per100

Rowley
Humane Horse book, 32 pp., 5 cts. each or 5.00
The Horse—Treatment of Sores, etc. .60

........................

Humane Education Leaflet, No. 5 .50 :: ::
The Horse’s Prayer .................. .30 .. “
The Bell of Atri, poem by Longfellow .. .50 “ u
The Care of Mules .................... .50
About the Dog

Beautiful Joe, new, i11us., $1.50 ........ small, 50 cts.
Distemper in Dogs, Dr. Schneider ...... Free
Rabies vs. Running Fits, Dr. Schneider . Free

Eulogy on the Dog, by Vest, post-card. .$1.00pe‘r1‘00
The Dog—Its Care in Health and Disease .60 ‘

Feeding the Dog and the Cat, Dr. ‘
Schneider ...................... 2.00 “ ‘
Humane Education Leaflets, Nos. 3 and 4 .50 “ ::
What the Chained Dog Says .......... .50 :‘ “
The Story of Barry .................. .30 ‘
“Don” and His Boy Scout Friends, ‘
J. P. Lyons ......................... .50 “ ‘
Boots’ Day, play, ........ 3 cts. each, ﬁve for 10 cts.
About the Bird
The Birds of God, 318 pp., illus .......... cloth, $0.45

Trial of the Birds, play, 3 cts. ea.; 12 for

25 cts. ............................ $2.00 per 100
Humane Education Leaflets, Nos. 1 and 2 .50 per 100
How the Birds Help the Farmer .50 “ “
The Air-gun and the Birds ............ .50 “ “

About the Cat
The Cat—Its Care in Health and Disease $0.60 per 100

Surplus Cats ........................ .50 “
The Cat in Literature ................ .50 “ “
Do Not Leave Your Cat to Starve .50 “ “
Mollie Whitefoot’s Vacation ............ .50 “ “
“The Beggar Cat,” post-card, 6 cts. doz. .50 “ “
Tommy’s Tavern, 4 pp. .............. 1.00 “ “
I Knew She Was A Lady ............ .50 “ “
About Other Animals

Prince Rudolf’s Quest, Kenniston, 150

pp., special ....................... boards, 50 cts.
The Strike at Shane’s, cloth, 30 cts.. .. .paper, 7 cts.
For Pity’s Sake ....................... paper, 5 cts.
Michael Brother of Jerry, Jack London, cloth, 75 cts.
Heaven’s Rage, Helen Trevelyan ..... 25 cts.
Laugh, Clown, Laugh! Helen Trevelyan . .cloth, $1.00
The Great Cruelty, Dr. Rowley ........ Free
First Aid to Animals, Dr. Schneider, 8 pp.

$1.00 per 100

What is the Jack London Club? ........ . “ “
Foreword from “Michael Brother of Jerry” .30 “ “
Gripped in the Teeth of Steel, 2 pp. 1.00 “ “

How to Kill Animals Humanely, 4 pp. .. 1.00 “ “
Humane Education Leaflet, No. 6, Animals .50 “ “

About Other Animals
Humane Education Leaflet, No. 7, Farm
Animals
Ways of Kindness

A Wise Fish .......................... .50 “ “
Humane Education
The Relation of the Home to Character
Formation, Dr. Francis H. Rowley. .. Free
The Humane Bulletin, for use in schools,
96 pp. ................. 12 cents each; ten for $1.00

Care. and Kindness for Our Animal
Friends, 29 pp., paper covers, many
illus.

................ 15 cents each ; seven for $1.00

Kindness Picture Book, 32 pp., 15 cts. ; seven for $1.00

The Teacher’s Helper in Humane Edu-

cation, 32 pp. ....................... each, 10 cts.

An Early Start to Kindness, Lucia F.
Gilbert, 48 pp. For first and second
grades ..........................

Incidents About Animals as Told to
School Children by George T. Angell

2 cts. each; $1.00 per

Picture Lesson Cards, each 10 cts., set

each, 10

cts.

100

of elght ........................... 35 cts.
“Be Kind to Animals” pennants ...... each, 25 cts.
The Humane Idea, Dr. Francis H.

Rowley ................ cloth, 35 cts. ; paper, 15 cts.
Friends and Helpers (selections for

school use), Sarah J. Eddy ........ cloth, 96 cts.
Lessons on Kindness to Animals . . .. $3.00 per 100

The B—K—T—A—Club, play, 3 cts. each; ten for 25c.
Fred Changes His Mind, play, 5 cts. each; six for 25c.

“And a Little Child Shall Lead Them,”

play ................ 3 cts. each; ten for 25
Friends of Fur and Feather, play. . ..

3 cts. each; ten for 25

New Humane Exercises for 1937
Helps for Humane Sunday ............ 1.00
Humane Education the Vital Need, Dr.

Rowley, short radio address, 2 cts. each; .75 “
Humane Education, What to Teach and

How to Teach It ................... .50 “
Outlines of Study in Humane Education 1.50 “
Early Lessons in Kindness or Cruelty .. .50 “

cts.

cts.

$2.00 per 100

A Talk with the Teacher ............... “ “
Our Love for Animals, a short radio ad-

dress .................. 2 cts. each; 1.00 “ “
The Coming Education ................ .30 “ “
A Festival of Tender Mercies .......... .50 “ “
Need of Humane Education Societies and

Methods of Forming Them .......... .50 “ “
A Great Prophecy, Dr. Rowley ........ Free

Band of Mercy

“Be Kind to Animals” Buttons, three

styles—Band of Mercy, Humane So-

ciety, or S.'P. C. A ................... $1.00 per 100
Buttons—white star on blue ground with

gilt letters and border, one cent each 1.00 “ “
Badges, gold finish, large, 10 cts., small 5 cts.
“Band of Mercy” Pennant ............ 35 cts.
Songs of Happy Life, with music, S.

J. Eddy ............... ' ............. 50 cts.
Songs of Happy Life (56 pages, words

only ............................. $3.00 per 100
Band of Mercy Membership Card ...... .50 “ “
How to Form Bands of Mercy .......... .50 “ “

Does it Pay, Story of one Band of Mercy .30 “
No order by mail for less than 5 cts.

Please enclose remittance with orders for less than $1

AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY, 180 Longwood Ave., Boston, Mass.

 

 

 

 

 

NEW LEAFLETS READY

For Humane Sunday and
Be kind to Animals Week
Send for free samples
Am. Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Ave., Boston

 

 

 

 

 

 

Since 1832

J. S. WATERMAN & SONS, lnc.
ﬂutertakets

BOSTON—BROOKLINE—CAMBRIDGE
City and Out-of-Town Service

 

Animal Shelters.

 

 

 

 

 

“First come, ﬁrst served,” is our rule for reservations in April when the ﬁlms
~ are in greatest demand

IN BEHALF OF ANIMALS

Film showing activities of Angell Animal Hospital of Massachusetts 8. P. C. A,,
Boston, scenes‘ at Society’s Rest Farm for Horses, Methuen, and of Society’s

Two reels, 30 minutes

“Of keenest interest to the representative audience.”——Melrose (Mass.) Humane Society

THE BELL OF ATRI

One-reel Film, illustrating Longfellow’s poem of the same title

State whether 35 mm., or 16 mm. is required.
Terms on application to Secretary, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




t ‘f ‘ Wm—wgaﬁ: nears r_=~‘-..._::.T . ,2 2.}. s.._:.;;:‘;‘~_: A A4 I

 

 

 

 

Page 16
The New-Born Calf

MINA M. TITUS

With lowered head—pain’s battle won
She stands above her new—born son
And wakes him with her warming breath
From sleep of birth resembling death.
With patient tongue in mother-pride
She licks his head, his feet, his side
With loving nose she fondles him,

In his soft eyes unseeing, dim

An unawakened dream still clings
From that far land of unborn things.
The mother, weak and weary-dyed
Protects him by her shelt’ring side.
With coaxing sounds for him to hear
She drives away his dawning fear.
Encouraged by her gentle way

He learns to stand, to eat, to play.

Near by, on guard, the old cow stood
In age-old joy of motherhood.

The Black-Widow Spider

H. F. ABBOTT

ESEARCH into the origin of the ap—
R pellation, black-widow, possessed by
the menacing spider known to all the coun-
try, showed the great respect that the
ancients had for this spider.

It is found that although this shiny black
creature, which carries an hour-glass on its
upper side, has been given such titles as
Po-ko—moo (an Indian name), the shoe—but-
ton spider, hour-glass spider and poison
spider, yet the most prevalent is that of
black-widow.

Zoologists state that the name is derived
from the fact that the spider not only in—
jects a poison fluid into its prey and ene-
mies, but has a reputation for doing away
with its mate about as soon as their honey—
moon is over.

The malignity of the black-widow spider
was apparently well known in this country
as far back as the Indian days, for by the
descriptions of the spider given by the West—
ern tribes to the early anthropologists, that
is, in their phrases used to picture the ef-
fectiveness of its venom were: “A deadly
poison used on the head of the hunting ar-
row,” and, “a poison more fearful than
that in the fangs of a rattle-snake.”

This just goes to show that the black—
widow spider was known long before
America was discovered.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

A Modern Jonah

ALFRED ELDEN

T Bailey Island, in Lower Casco Bay,

on the Maine Coast, I heard one of
the most interesting animal stories imag-
inable, one attested to by E. E. Sinnett, the
postmaster; Captain Albert Smith, master
of ﬁshing schooners; Joseph Lubee, store-
keeper, and many others, any one of whom
will verify it. At Mackerel Cove, Lester
Doughty owned “Davy” a black domestic
duck. It was the bird’s habit to swim
around near the head of the cove where
nobody supposed any harm could come to
him.

One day, three years ago, two of the
island youngsters were playing on a wharf.
Suddenly one exclaimed, “Oh, Washie, see
Davy. He’s trying to dive backwards.” Sure
enough that was what the duck appeared to
be doing. Down he would go tail ﬁrst until
only his head was above water, then back
he would bob. It was a strange proceeding.
And he was making a terrible squawking.

Just then two older lads, George W.
Doughty and George W. Johnson, came
along. “Something is trying to drag him
down,” one exclaimed. Jumping into a dory
they pushed off and soon reached the spot
where Davy was performing his queer an-
tics. Lo and behold! A great monkﬁsh,
which is also called allmouth, gooseﬁsh, mol—
liglut and other names, and which has a
mouth as big as a water bucket, had poor
Davy half down. The boys beat and poked
him with their oars trying to make the four-
foot ﬁsh release the duck. Instead it only
hastened the operation and with one great
gulp Davy, like Jonah in the whale story,
had been swallowed!

Did that end the duck? Not yet. The
boys being wise to the ways of ﬁsh knew
this monkﬁsh was a sluggish chap and
would probably soon settle to the bottom
and wait for his dinner to digest. So they
hurriedly pushed ashore. Leaning against
a building was a harpoon Captain Albert
Smith had placed there upon his return
from a swordﬁshing trip to Georges Bank.
Seizing this the youngsters jumped back in
to the dory and pushed off.

Doughty held the harpoon and peered
down through the water. It was half tide
and not more than six feet covered the ﬂats.
Johnson did the paddling. Soon Doughty
spotted the ﬁsh, its tail moving gently back
and forth. Getting right over it he drove
the harpoon with all his might right
through the mouth or great lips of the ﬁsh,

 

 

TO OUR FRIENDS

In making your will, kindly bear in mind that the corporate title of our Society is “The
Massachusetts Socrety for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals”: that it is the second
incorporated (March, 1868) Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals in the country,
and that it has no connection with any other similar Society.

Any bequest especrally intended for the beneﬁt of the Angel] Memorial Animal Hospital
fgﬂdgggerfmelﬁss, be mgdﬁ toHThe ﬁassachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty

or euseo e osi astheHositalin ' '
property of that Society and is conduited’ by it. p s at incorporated but is the

FORM OF BE QUEST

I give to The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruel t my
to The American Humane Education Society), the sum of ty 0 lmals (or

dollars (or, if other property, describe the property).

oooooooooooooooooooooooooooo

 

 

Jan. 1937

twisted the barb and lifted the prize to the
surface. Both boys hoisted him in. As he
lay on his back they saw the movement of
poor Davy’s feet inside the dirty grayish
belly! ’

But they found they had no knife! They
frantically rowed to no less than ﬁve ﬁshing
boats at anchor in the harbor before they
found one. Quickly they cut the monkﬁsh
open and there sure enough was Davy. Cov-
ered with slime, eyes closed, he was a piti—
ful picture—but he was alive! The boys
washed him off and placed him in the sun
on the wharf to dry off. In an hour he
was himself again! That was three years
ago, and Davy is alive and well today.

His rescuers ﬁgured he had been inside
the monkﬁsh all of 15 minutes! In this
connection, however, Dr. Fiore Parisi, a
prominent doctor of Yarmouth, says, “There
was air enough in that 40-pound ﬁsh’s stom-
ach, in all probability, so the duck could
have lived nearly an hour. There are cases
on record where dissection has shown that
animals swallowed alive by larger creatures
have lived for a long time. But I never
heard of one coming back! The prompt
action of the young men saved the duck’s
life.”

Queer Things about Cats
MARGUERITE WARREN-BURRILL

Perfectly white cats are invariably deaf;
they are sure to be, if the-y have blue eyes.

The Egyptians considered the cat a sacred
animal, and usually mummiﬁed its remains.

The cats of the Isle of Man, and those
of North Borne-o are all tailless.

All of the mummy—cats unearthed in
Egyptian tombs have red hair, due perhaps
to the embalming ﬂuids and unguents used
in mummifying them.

There are three times as many muscles
in the tail of a cat as there are in the
human hand and wrist.

At the end of each hair of a cat’s whiskers
is a bulb or nerve fibre which makes that
particular hair a very delicate “feeler.”

A cat’s head has a regular partition wall
projecting from its side, inward, which, nat-
uralists say, is a provision against concus-
sion of the brain.

 

 

Our Dumb Animals

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention 0!
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston Ofﬁce: 180 Longwood

venue.

Address all communications to Boston.

TERMS

One dollar per year. Postage free to any part of
the world.

All dollar subscriptions sent direct to the office en-
title the sender to membership in either of our two
Societies.

RATES OF MEMBERSHIP IN
THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
OR THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.
Active Life $100 00 Active Annual $10 00
Associate Life 50 00 Associate Annual 5 00
Sustaining 20 00 Annual 1 00
Children’s $0.75.

Checks and other payments may be sent to ALBERT
%. POLLARD, Treasurer, 180 Longwood Avenue,
oston.

Manuscripts should be addressed to the Editor, 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston.

Jul-n; al>r~<i w_. W 2‘

A A u;——-—.h-e.- «He-rut

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

S
_I
N
E
C
m
E
m
R
D:

JUNE 1937

 

THE MASSACHUSETTS SOCIETY FOR THE

PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS
and THE AMERICAN I-IUMANE EDUCATION

SOCIETY ~

07 77,.

W77 .7

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

Page56
Our Dumb Animals

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston Ofﬁce: 180 Longwood .Av-
enue, Boston, Mass., to which all communications
should be addressed.

Dr. FRANCIS I-I. ROWLEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON, Editor
WILLIAM M. MORRILL, Assistant

 

APRIL, 1937

 

FOR TERMS, see back cover.

AGENTS to take orders for Our Dumb Animals are
wanted everywhere. Liberal commissions are offered.

EDITORS of all periodicals who receive this pub-
lication this month are invited to reprint any of the
articles with or without credit.

MANUSCRIPTS relating to animals, particularly
prose articles of about three hundred words, are solic-
ited. We do not wish to consider prose manuscripts
longer than 800 words nor verse in excess of thirty-
six lines. The shorter the better. All manuscripts
should be typewritten and an addressed envelope with
full return postage enclosed with each offering.

Those Objectionable
Animals

ITHIN the week a letter appeared

in a morning paper deploring the
“dog craze” and denouncing these “objec—
tionable animals,” says the writer of “Top-
ics of the Times” in the New York Times.
The correspondent failed to sign himself A.
Grouch, but chose a less appropriate pseu-
donym. Since then two stories about these
objectionable animals have been printed
which, perhaps, help to explain the dog
craze, which we appear to have inherited
from primitive men.

In a remote mountain cabin in Idaho
searchers found the owner dead on his
cot. Beside the body lay a mongrel dog,
shivering, famished and so weak he could
scarcely crawl. Members of the searching
party estimated that the objectionable little
animal must have kept his vigil beside his
dead master for almost thirty days. They
were foolish enough to succumb at once to
the dog craze and forthwith adopted the
stupid beast.

In a quiet section of Hollywood after-
noon strollers have observed an odd sight.
A digniﬁed police dog, holding a leash in
his mouth, leads a smaller dog for his daily
walk. The small dog’s name is “Cocktail,”
and he belongs to Edmund Lowe. Cocktail
is twelve years old and went blind six
months ago. Recently Mr. Lowe got from
the Seeing Eye a dog trained to lead the
blind—and Cocktail trots in the sunshine
once more.

Of course, it is all objectionable publicity
for objectionable animals, but somehow we
just can’t help passing it along.

Babies and Dogs

. “My miniature schnauzer, ‘Agar,’ is my
1nseparable companion, goes with me every—
where,” says Mrs. Richard A. Kerns, Wynne-
wood, in Popular Dogs. “After shopping,
about to enter my car, a woman stopped me,
admired and petted the dog. She then said,
‘But how much nicer it would be if you had
a child in your arms.’ I replied, ‘I have
seven at home.’ It gave me a lot of satis-
faction to answer one of those persons who
think because you have a pet dog you have
no time for children.”

 

 

OUR DUJUB ANIMALS

Again the Starling

N February “Suggestions for Combating

Starling Roosts,” by E. R. Kalmbach, sen-
ior biologist, Division of Wild Life Research
of the Bureau of Biological Survey, was pub-
lished by the United States Department of
Agriculture. It consists of 17 mimeographed
pages, from one of which we quote the fol-.
lowing:

“Despite certain objectionable habits that
have become unduly emphasized by its great
increase in numbers, the starling is recog-
nized as one of the most effective bird ene—
mies of ground—inhabiting insects in the
eastern states. Equaling or excelling many
of our native birds in this respect, it in—
cludes in its diet such pests as the clover-
leaf weevil, the Japanese beetle, May
beetles, cutworms, and grasshoppers. Its
liking for cherries, other small fruits, gar-
den truck, and some late fruits, however,
has been to its discredit wherever it is over
abundant. Objections also have been raised
to its usurping the nesting sites of native
birds and to its gathering in enormous
roosts that constitute a nuisance or, under
some conditions, a source of actual damage.
It is with the View of presenting informa—
tion useful in combating objectionable
roosts that this leaﬂet has been prepared.”

Editors Who Really Care

Among the many exchanges received by
Our Dumb Animals are those whose editors
show unusual appreciation of the needs of
suffering or unwanted animals. We often
wish we had space in which to commend
these editors or to quote the articles which
they print, but to do this in all cases is
simply impossible. Again and again, how-
ever, we have found references in the News,
Old Orchard, Maine, which show that its
properietors conduct a veritable animal ref-
uge of their own. Here is an instance that
was told in a recent number of that journal:

“A half-starved tiger kitten was found on
the street on Wednesday evening and has
been the guest of the News since that time.
It is a female and very prettily marked—
with an almost “coon tail.”

Despite traditions to the contrary, we
feel conﬁdent that some editors will go to
heaven.

“Our Feathered Friends”

This is the title of a paper—covered book-
let, 7 x 9 inches, consisting of 24 pages of
verses and wood-cuts, all relating to the
more popular song—birds, the poems being
by Geo. B. Bowra and the illustrations by
Mary K. Taylor. It was published last year
at Aztec, New Mexico. One hundred copies
have been received at the office of Our
Dumb Animals for the work of our humane
societies at 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston.
These were generously contributed by the
publishers who say that we should receive
50 cents per copy. However, as we do not
wish to deprive any specially interested
from owning this unique booklet, we are
offering to send a copy, postpaid, for what-
ever amount the sender chooses to remit,

trusting that it may be as generous as pos-
sible.

A pr. 1937

Lecture by Mr. Burgess

AST call to readers of Our Dumb

Animals, especially those in the Vicin-
ity of Boston, for the lecture on “Friendly
Folk in Fur and Feathers,” by Mr. Thorn—
ton W. Burgess, popular author of animal
bed-time stories. This will be one of the
outstanding features of the celebration of
Be Kind to Animals Week in Massachu-
setts.

The time is Humane Sunday, April 11,
at 8 P. M. (doors open at 6:30 and closed
when lecture begins or hall is ﬁlled); the
place is the lecture hall of the Boston
Public Library, COpley Square, entrance on
Boylston Street; the lecturer, who will use
slides and ﬁlms, is one of the best known
writers on animal topics in this country.

Mr. Burgess recently became a director of
the Massachusetts Society for the Preven-
tion of Cruelty to Animals, under whose
auspices the lecture will be given. It is, of
course, free to all.

Vivisection of Dogs

Early this session Representative Quinn
of Pennsylvania introduced in the House a
bill to prohibit experiments on dogs for oth-
er purposes than to heal or cure them, and
to make it a misdemeanor for any person to
operate on the canines except for veterina—
rian purposes. Fines. ranging from $100 to
$500 and jail sentences of three months to
a year would be imposed on persons guilty
of Violation of the anti-Vivisection law.

The District laws already prohibit any
dog to be released from the District pound
for Vivisection purposes.

Annuity Bonds

“Dear Sir: I am 66 years of age. I have
saved $5,000, which I have in bank at 2%
interest. How can I invest the money to
increase my income?”

You can take an Annuity Bond with the
Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals or The American Hu-
mane Education Society, for the $5,000,
which will pay you 5.6% for life. Your an-
nual return, as long as you live, will be
$280. This is absolutely safe, and gives you
the best possible return for your money,
and after you no longer nee-d this income it
will go to the work of either of the above-
named organizations you designate.

You may know persons who would be
glad to secure such an investment. You
would be rendering them a great service
by calling their attention to this form of
investment, or telling them to write to Dr.
Francis H. Rowley, President, 180 Long-
wood Avenue, Boston, Mass, for additional
information.

The interest rate of these annuities is
based on age.

“When you make your will, put nothing
into it but tenderness, kindness and con-
sideration. It is to be read after your fu-
neral, and is a message from the dead. All
the hate in our composition should be in—
terred with our bones—let love alone live.
Bronze compliments bossed deep on me-
morial table-ts never yet thrilled human
hearts like a loving word in a will.”

I - .1- ” S ' ~
, v > .. . .A
“AV-.51“.-

 




 

 

ENTS

PRICE 10 C

 

 

 

 

THE MASSACHUSETTS SOCIETY FOR THE

PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS
and THE AMERICAN I-IUMANE EDUCATION

SOCIETY ~

     

   

         

/. I
1.;
amo/W/zrn/

III . .

x //
a/uMWM/«MV, ,4
. ,ﬁ/wx“ //
wag

            

   

  

  

 




 

 

 

Make

FIRST NATIONAL STORES

Your Headquarters

PET ANIMAL FOODS
MANY FAMOUS BRANDS
at

L0 WES T POSSIBLE PRICES

 

 

 

 

 

   
 
 
 
 
  
  
   

 

(TETRACHLORETHYLENE C. T.)

WORM CAPSULES

effectiver remove

Large Roundworms
and Hookworms
Dependable, safe, easy-to-
give worm treatment.
Keep your dog worm free
and thrifty.

WRITE FOR
BOOKLET NO. 6531
on thepracthDaéggngfva“ .
°f “mm m es. ADDRESS DESK ‘N-58-B‘
breeds and ag Animal Industry Dept,
PARKE, DAVIS & 00., DetrOIt, ,Mlch.

Drug Stores Sell ~Parke- Davis Products

    
    
      

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THIS SPACE
CONTRIBUTED

 

 

 

 

 

 

Cuti urn
Soap and. 0 (Pintment

 

 

 

Wanted

Middle-aged couple (or single man). who love
and personify animals to work With ﬁnest
thoroughbred cattle and goats.

Must be honest, temperate and industrious,
willing to live without modern conveniences in
intelligent and reﬁned environment. Moderate
pay. Box 89, R. F. D., Raynham Ctr., Mass.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Since 1 832

J. S. WATERMAN & SONS, INC.

Entertakers

BOSTON —BROOKLIN E—CAMBRIDGE
City and Out-of-Town Service

 

 

 

 

 

 

Humane literature and Band of Mercy Supplies

For Sale at 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass, at these prices, posttpaid.
Titles in bold-face type are of books or booklets

11 Calendar for 1937 ........... each, 20 cts.
Hung: for 35 cts.; six for $1.00; $1.80 per dozen
Our Dumb Animals, 1936, bound volume $1.00
Bound volumes for 1934 and 1935 . . . . .75
Colored Posters, 17 x 28 inches, with

attractive pictures and verses, SIX 1n 1 00
the set ............................. .
Be Kind to Animals Blotters, 61/8 x 3% $0.50 per 100

About the Horse

Black Beauty (English), cloth,...-.$1.00 and 50 cts.
What Constitutes Cruelty, Franc1s H.
Rowley

$0.30 per 100
Humane Horse book, 32 pp., 5 cts. each or 5.00 “

(‘

The Horse—Treatment of Sores, etc. . 60 :: ::
Humane Education Leaflet, No. 5 .50 ., “
The Horse’s Prayer .................. .30 “ ..
The Bell; of Atri, poem by Longfellow .. .50 a ..
The Care of Mules .................... .50
About the Dog

Beautiful Joe, new, illus., $1.50 ........ small, 50 cts.
Distemper in Dogs, Dr. Schneider ...... Free
Rabies vs. Running Fits, Dr. Schneider . Free

Eulogy on the Dog, by Vest, post-card. .$1.00per 100
The Dog—Its Care in Health and Disease .60 “ “

Feeding the\ Dog ” and the Cat, Dr.

Schneider ...................... 2.00 “ “
Humane Education Leaflets, Nos. 3 and 4 .50 “ “
What the Chained Dog Says .......... .50 “ “
The Story of Barry .................. .30 “ “
“Don” and His Boy Scout Friends,

' J. P. Lyons ......................... .50 “ “
About the Bird ,
The Birds of God, 318 pp., illus .......... cloth, $0.45
Trial*-of-the Birds, play, 3 cts. ea.; 12 for
255, cts. ... . . . . . .‘J ................... $2.00per 100

Humane Education Leaflets, Nos. 1 and 2 .50 per 100
How the/Birds Help the Farmer ...... .50 “ “
The Air-gggn"andthe Birds ............ .50 “ “
‘ I? I About» the Cat

g

The Cat—Its Care"_"in,fHealth and Disease $0.60 per 100
Surplus Cats ' .50 “ “

The Cat in Literature, ............... .50 “ “
Do Not Leave 'Your :‘Cat to Starve . . .. .50 “ “
Mollie Whitefoot’s Vacation ............ .50 “ “
“The Beggar Cat,” post-card, 6 cts. doz. .50 “ “
Tommy’s Tavern, 4. pp'fz‘“ .............. 1.00 “ “
I KnerS’he Was A Lady ............ .50 “ “
About. ,‘Other Animals

Prince Rudolf’s Quest, Kenniston, 150

pp., special ....................... boards, 50 cts.
The Strike at Shane’s,- cloth, 30 cts.. .. .paper, 7cts.
For Pity’s Sake ....................... paper,- 5 cts.

Michael Brother of Jerry, Jack London, cloth, 75 cts.
Heaven’s Rage, Helen Trevelyan .....
Laugh, Clown, Laugh! Helen Trevelyan
The Great Cruelty, Dr. Rowley ........
First Aid {to Animals, Dr. Schneider, 8 pp.

. . . , $1.00per100
What is the Jack London Club? ........ . “ “
Foreword from “Michael Brother of Jerry” .30 “ “

25 cts.
. .cl‘oth, $1.00
Free

Gripped in the Teeth of9‘Steel, 2 pp. 1.00 “ “
How..to Kill Animals Humanely, 4 pp. .. 1.00 “ “
Humane Education Leaflet, No. 6, Animals .50 “ “

About Other Animals

Humane Education Leaflet, No. 7, Farm

Animals ........................ .50 per 100
Ways of Kindness .................... .50 “ “
A Wise Fish .......................... .50 “ ”

Humane Education

The Relation of the Home to Character
Formation, Dr. Francis H. Rowley. ..
The Humane Bulletin, for use in schools,
pp. ................. 12 cents each; ten for $1.00
Care and Kindness for Our Animal
Friends, 29 pp., paper covers, many
illus. ................ 15 cents each; seven for $1.00
Kindness Picture Book, 32 pp., 15 cts. ; seVen for $1.00
The Teacher’s Helper in Humane Edu-
cation, 32 pp. ....................... each, 10 cts.
An Early Start to Kindness, Lucia F.
Gilbert, 48 pp. For first and second
grades ..........................
Incidents About Animals as Told to
School Children by George T. Angel]
2 cts. each; $1.00 per 100
Picture Lesson Cards, each 10 cts., set
of eight ........................... 35 cts.
“Be Kind to Animals” pennants ...... each, 25 cts.
he Humane Idea, Dr. Francis H.
Rowley ................ cloth, 35 cts. ; paper, 15 cts.
Friends and Helpers (selections for
school use), Sarah J. Eddy ........ cloth, 96 cts.
Lessons on Kindness to Animals $3.00 per 100
The B—K—T—A—Club, play, 3 cts. each; ten for 25c.
Fred Changes His Mind, play, 5 cts. each; six for 25c.
“And a Little Child Shall Lead Them,”
play ................ 3 cts. each; ten for 25 cts.
Friends of Fur and Feather, play. . ..
3 cts. each; ten for 25 cts.
Humane Exercises ................... $1.50 per 100
Humane Education the Vital Need, Dr.
Rowley, short radio address, 2 cts. each; .75 “ “
Humane Education, What to Teach and
How to Teach It ................... .50 “ “
Outlines of Study in Humane Education 1.50 “ “

Free

each, 10 cts.

Early Lessons in Kindness or Cruelty .. .50 “ “
A Talk with the Teacher ............... .50 “ “
Our Love for Animals, a short radio ad-

dress .................. 2 cts. each; 1.00 “ “
The Coming Education ................ .30 “ “
A Festival of Tender Mercies .......... .50 “ “
Need of Humane Education Societies and

Methods of Forming Them .......... .50 “ “
A Great Prophecy, Dr. Rowley ........ Free

Band of Mercy

“Be Kind to Animals” Buttons, three
styles—Band of Mercy, Humane So-
ciety, or S. P. C. A.. ................ $1.00 per 100
Buttons—White star on blue ground with
gilt letters and border, one cent each 1.00 “ “

Badges, gold finish, large, 10 cts., small 5 cts.
“Band of Mercy” Pennant ............ 35 cts.
Songs of Happy Life, with music, S.

J. Eddy ............................ 50 cts.
Songs of Happy Life (56 pages, words

only) ............................. $3.00 per 100
Band of Mercy Membership Card ...... .50 “ “
How to Form Bands of Mercy .......... .50 “ “

Does it Pay, Story of one Band of Mercy .30 “ “
No order by mail for less than 5 cts.

Please enclose remittance with orders for less than $1

AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY, 180 Longwood Ave., Boston, Mass.

 

 

 

 

Best Humane Films!

IN BEHALF OF ANIMALS

Made by the Harvard University Film Service, showing the activities of the Angell Animal
Hospital of the Massachusetts 8. P. C. A., Boston, scenes at the Society’s Rest Farm for
Horses, Methuen, and glimpses of the Society’s Animal Shelters.

THE BELL OF ATRI

Made for the American Humane Education Society some years ago, but still in great demand.
State whether regular 35 mm., or 16 mm. is required

Terms on application to Secretary, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston

Two reels, 30 minutes

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

   
  
 
 
     
   

(TETRACHLORETHYLENE C. T.)

WORM CAPSULES ..

effectively remove
Large Roundworm
and Hookworms
Dependable, safe, easy-to-
give worm treatment.
Keep your dog worm free
and thrifty.
FDR
013.5}; N 0.652
B O 1 movaI
on thePTaStica re { ll .
of worms in Dogs 0 a '
breeds and ages ADDRESS DESK N— 58— F
Animal Indus try Dept.
PARKE, DAVIS & 00., Detroit, Mich.

Drug Stores Sell Parke- Davis Products

      
       
 
    

 

 

 

 

 

 

CRUELTY TO WILD ANIMALS

EXPOSED
Send for free sample of “Films,
Fakes and Facts” and “Do Wild Ani-
mals Prefer Captivity?” both reprint-
ed from the recent English book,
“Laugh, Clown, Laugh” by Helen
Trevelyan. Each, 4 pp., 50 cts. per
100. The American Humane Educa-
tion Society, 180 Longwood Ave.,
Boston.

 

 

 

 

 

 

Cuticura S p

for the

Daily Care

of your Hands

\
It will do much to '
keep them soft and smooth:

     
 

 

 

 

 

 

THIS SPACE
CONTRIBUTED

 

 

 

 

 

 

Since 1832

J. S. WATERMAN & SONS, Inc.
Entertakers

BOSTON—BROOKLINE—‘CAMBRIDGE
City and Out-of-Town Service

 

 

 

 

Humane literature and Band of Mercy Supplies

For Sale at 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass, at these prices, postpaid.

Titles in bold-face type are of books or booklets

Our Dumb Animals, 1936, bound volume $1.00
Colored Posters, 17 x 28 inches, with

attractive pictures and verses, six in

the set ............................. 1.00
Be Kind to Animals Blotters, 61/8 x 33/8 $0.50 per 100

About the Horse

Black Beauty (English), cloth,....$1.00 and 50 cts.
What Constitutes Cruelty, Francis .
Rowley ........................ $0.30 per 100
Humane Horse book, 32 pp., 5 cts. each or 5.00
The Horse—Treatment of Sores, etc. 60

Humane Education Leaflet, No. 5 .50 “ ,
The Horse’s Prayer .................. .30 “ "
The Bell of Atri, poem by Longfellow .. .50 “ "
The Care of Mules .................... .50 “ “
About the Dog
Beautiful Joe, new, illus., $1.50 ........ small, 50 cts.
Distemper in Dogs, Dr. Schneider ...... Free
Rabies vs. Running Fits, Dr. Schneider . Free

Eulogy on the Dog, by Vest, post- card. .$1. 00 per 100
The Dog—Its Care in Health and Disease .60
Feeding the Dog and the Cat, Dr.

Schneider ...................... 2.00 “ “
Humane Education Leaflets, Nos. 3 and 4 .50 “ “
What the Chained Dog Says .......... .50 “ “
The Story of Barry .................. .30 “ “
“Don” and His Boy Scout Friends,

J. P. Lyons ........................ .50 “ “
Road Accidents to Dogs, 4 pp. ...... Free
Boots’ Day, play, for two boys and three

girls .................... 3 cts. each, ﬁve for 10 cts.

About the Bird
The Birds of God, 318 pp., illus .......... cloth, $0.45
Trial of the Birds, play, 3 cts. ea. ; 12 for
25 cts. ......... $2.00 per 100

Humane Education Leaflets, Nos.1 and 2 .50 per 100
How the Birds Help the Farmer ...... .50 “ “
The Air-gun and the Birds ............ .50 “

About the Cat

The Cat—Its Care in Health and Disease $0. 60 per 100
Surplus Cats ........................ .50

The Cat in Literature ................ .50 “ “
Do Not Leave Your Cat to Starve .50 “ “
Mollie Whitefoot’s Vacation ............ .50 “ “
“The Beggar Cat," post-card, 6 cts. doz. .50 “

Tommy’s Tavern, 4 pp. .............. 1.00 “ “
I Knew She was a Lady .............. .50 “ “

About Other Animals

Prince Rudolf’s Quest, Kenniston, 150
pp., special ....................... boards, 50 cts.
The Strike at Shane’s, cloth, 30 cts.. .. .paper, 7 cts.
For Pity’ s Sake ....................... pa per, 5 cts.
Michael Brother of Jerry, Jack London, cloth, 75 cts.
Heaven’s Rage, Helen Trevelyan ............ 25 cts.
Laugh, Clown, Laugh! Helen Trevelyan . .cloth, $1.00
The Great Cruelty, Dr. Rowley ........ Free
First Aid to Animals, Dr. Schneider, 8 pp.
$1.00 per 100
Gripped in the Teeth of Steel, 2 pp. 1.00 “ “
How to Kill Animals Humanely, 4 pp. 1.00 “ “
Humane Education Leaflet, No. 6, Animals .50 “ “
Ways of Kindness .50
Humane Education Leaflet, No. 7, Farm
Animals ........................... .50 “ “
A Wise Fish .......................... .50 “ “

The Jack London Club

What is the Jack London Club? ........ .30 per 100
Foreword from “Michael Brother of Jerry” .30
Films,p Fakes and Facts, He en Trevelyan,

4p ................................ .50 “ “
D0 VVipld Animals Prefer Captivity? Helen

Trevelyan, 4 pp. ................ .50 “

Humane Education

The Relation of the Home to Character

Formation, Dr. Francis H. Rowley. .. Free
The Humane Bulletin, for use in schools,

96 pp. ................. 12 cents each; ten for $1.00

Care and Kindness for Our Animal
Friends, 29 pp., paper covers, many
illus. ................ 15 cents each; seven for $1.00
Kindness Picture Book, 32 pp., 15 cts. , seven for $1.00
The Teacher’s Helper in Humane Edu-
cation, 32 p ....................... each, 10 cts.
An Early Start to Kindness, Lucia F.
Gilbert, 48 pp. For ﬁrst and second
grades .......................... each, 10 cts.
Incidents About Animals as Told to
School Children by George T. Angel]
2 cts. each; $1.00 per 100
Picture Lesson Cards, each 10 cts., set

of eight ........................... 35 cts.
“Be Kind to Animals” pennants ...... each, 25 cts.

he Humane Idea, Dr. Francis H.

Rowley ................ cloth, 35 cts. , paper, 15 cts.
Friends and Helpers (selections for

school use), Sarah J. Eddy .......... cloth $1.00

Lessons on Kindness to Animals $3. 00 per 100
The B—K—T—A—Club, play, 3 cts. each; ten for 25c.
Fred Changes His Mind, play, 5 cts. each; six for 25c.
“And a Little Child Shall Lead Them,”

play ................ 3 cts. each; ten for 25 cts.
Friends of Fur and Feather, play.

3 cts. each; ten for 25 cts.

Humane Exercises .................. $1. 50 per 100
Humane Sunday, 1937 . 1.00
Humane Education the Vital Need, Dr.

Rowley, short radio address, 2 cts. each; .75 “ "
Humane Education, What to Teach and

How to Teach It ................... .50 “
Outlines of Study in Humane Education 1. 50 "
Early Lessons in Kindness or Cruelty .. .50 "
A Talk with the Teacher ............ .50 “

Our Love for Animals, a short radio ad-

dress .................. 2 cts. each, 1 00 “ “
The Coming Education ................ .03 “ “
A Festival of Tender Mercies .......... .50 “ “
Need of Humane Education Societies and

Methods of Forming Them .......... .50 “ "
A Great Prophecy, Dr. Rowley ........ Free

Band of Mercy
“Be Kind to Animals” Buttons, three
styles—Band of Mercy, Humane So-
ciety, or S. P. C. A ................... $1.00 per 100
Buttons—white star on blue ground with
gilt letters and border, one cent each 1.00 “ “

Badges, gold finish, large, 10 cts. small 5 cts.
“Band of Mercy” Pennant ............ 35 cts.
Songs of Happy Life, with music, S
....................... 50 cts.
Songs ofy Happy Life (56 pages, words
only) ............................. $3. 00 per 100
Band of Mercy Membership Card ...... .50 “
How to Form Bands of Mercy .......... .50 “ “

Does it Pay, Story of one Band of Mercy .30 “
No order by mail for less than 5 cts.

Please enclose remittance with orders for less than $1

AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY, 180 Longwood Ave., Boston, Mass.

 

 

 

 

“IN BEHALF OF ANIMALS"

Film showing activities of Angell Animal Hospital of lVIassachusetts S. P. C. A., Boston,
scenes at Societys Rest Farm for Horses, Methuen, and its Animal Shelters.

“THE BELL OF ATRI”

One-reel Film, illustrating Longfellow’s poem of the same title

30 minutes.

State Whether regular 35 mm.,
Terms on application to Secretary, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston

or 16 mm., is required

Two reels,

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

Page 20
When Will It Be P

ELLA C. FORBES

How good a thing when it shall be
That birds shall have security;
When ravages shall not be made
Upon their plumage for the trade.
We humans have not any right
To rob them of their joyous flight.

Yet, Fashion stretches forth her hand,
And beauty dies at her demand;
Because of her imperious will

Some little fellow’s wings are still.
For woman, be she this or that,
Must have a feather in her hat.

The fox, the beaver and the seal,
Whose fur has such a silky feel;

The squirrel and a host of others,

All of them younger, weaker brothers,
Condemn us from unnumbered throats
In that they die to grace our coats.

Yet, do we feel this should not be?
This slaughter done for you and me?
The hours in which they suﬂer so?
The dread in which they come and go?
That fashion may be satisﬁed,

How many helpless things have died!

U. S. Treasurer Joins

Jack London Club

The signature of W. A. Julian, treasurer
of the United States, heads a list of more
than 600 members secured recently for the
Jack London Club by Mrs. Julian, who
writes that the most of these memberships
were taken in Washington during a two
months’ period. If all who profess interest
in. animal welfare would take similar pains
in securing members for the Club, the day
would soon arrive when we should be free
from cruelties in training animals for stage
performances.

Join the Jack London Club and so help
to stop cruelty in connection with trained
animal performances. No officers; no dues.
Write for information to 180 Longwood Av-
enue, Boston.

STELLER SEA LION

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

The Noble Sea Lion

W. J. BANKS

T is a hard and somewhat uncertain

life upon which the northern sea lion
pup ﬁrst opens his eyes in June or early
July. The rookeries are the barren, wave—
swept rocks off the western coast of Ame-r—
ica from arctic waters to California. The
northern or Steller sea lions are the largest
in: the world, the great bulls weighing 1,500
pounds and upwards. The southern portion
of their range overlaps that of the smaller,
agile California sea lion, who performs
tricks at the circus. His bulk, timidity and
inability to live in fresh water has saved
the splendid northern animal from this
form of slavery to man’s perverted desire
for amusement.

At birth the pup is not only clumsy on
land but, believe it or not, unable to swim!
This is due to the fact that the sea lion’s
ancestors were not always marine animals,
but land dwellers of the bear family.
Doubtless forced from their natural haunts
by stronger enemies, they took to the sea,
and nature proceeded to adapt gradually
the succeeding generations to a more wa—
tery existence. So now the sea lions can
travel for months at sea without touching
land; but they are still more at home on
solid ground than the true seals. Sea bears
would be a more appropriate name, for
they are not related to the king of beasts.

If he is not drowned by storm—tossed
waves, before he is big enough to swim, the
unfortunate pup may be crushed during one
of the constant ﬁghts between the huge
bulls on the rookeries. Then, after he is
taught to swim by his mother, who simply
tosses him into the water when she thinks
the time is ripe, he has to watch out for
sharks or killer whales, natural enemies of
the sea lions. Those fortunate enough to
survive the summer stay with their mothers
during the long winter trip into the ocean,
and until they return to the rookeries the
following year to give birth to new off-
spring. In ﬁve or six years the males are
ready to appropriate a choice site of their
own on the rookery, defend it in a thousand
battles, and establish a. harem of ﬁve to

Feb. 1937

twenty cows.

Though fortunate in the lack of a valu—
able fur such as almost meant extinction
for the fur seal herd, the sea lions never—
theless have been slaughtered extensively
for their oil. Fishing interests, claiming
that the sea lions ate huge quantities of com—
mercial ﬁsh, also caused the death of many.
This charge, however, has been shown by
scientiﬁc research to be largely unjustiﬁed.
The sea lions are an admirable Species,
worthy of protection on their bleak offshore
homes. -

Unemployed Animals

Since the depression, animal lovers have
been especially busy, for unemployment
has increased among animals as well as
among men, writes Madelin Blitzstein in
the Telegram, Worcester, Mass. The
streets of towns and cities are crowded
with stray dogs and cats and the admin-
istrations all over the country have cut
out the dog—catcher’s pay from the budget.
Consequently, volunteer women dog—catch-
ers have had to assume the work of gath-
ering up homeless dogs and cats and ﬁnd-
ing homes for them.

In the United States today the greatest
unemployment, according to the latest
statistics, is among cats; of the 120,000,—
000 cats in the country, more than 65 per
cent are unemployed strays. But many
ofﬁces and buildings still continue to keep
a cat or two on their “payrolls.”

The Catalyst, a magazine published by
the American Chemical Society, recently
commented on the cat situation thus:

“A staff of cats is employed by the
National Printing Office of France to pro-
tect the paper from rodents. In Hong
Kong it is compulsory for a cat to be
kept in every house; in the larger houses
three are required.

“In: England the ofﬁcial Mousers of the
British Treasury have been carried on
the payrolls for as long as men can
remember, and the pay, twopence a day——
recently raised to three-pence—has been a
regular item in the bill of the state ad-
ministration.”

 

S, SEA OTTER ISLANDS, BRITISH COLUMBIA

 

 




 

 

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

 

 

v >-
r-‘l‘l! l

'1!
l.
{I

 

 

  
 

: “unlawm'
:ll .llll-l

CHILDR€

I ‘-
0 9’
"rm . 4
a \H \\ \'-| I“ I P;‘ ‘
l",\‘\"\ . n n.
l

l a '
\' |ll,:‘ l‘-"v.v\. . 71‘s : 7 \ (
Ir“ "~ ' to,» “ . .l
\' i n "l (H . " v ,I .a ._
~\- w: .- x“ / . \ . < \.~d~.
\ .- t c. r ./ ‘3'
u . . _ '

  
   

 

I
Q3 ll Ill-l' ‘
' I II \' \’ l
m l '\ "3!; .‘i

.,. \‘I“,§ \lll.)'l'\ I"|\\ , \I. "\H'
”“1' Ivl'xlmlr‘“! .'-‘ ‘I/ .’|"'~"'\ .'r‘\.‘\'l'.’u\l u'l’.’\\'L.u‘,'...

7 , “"13
_ -3
Jam,“ . u = 1", n‘ " ‘

    

l

     

.,, ;.,.
I

 

 

1
Z 11“ n
.- ' ‘." a, g l ' .‘ ' 1| ,
‘. :1=_ \‘ _. _. _ I II .‘ *
/ 0&1 .' I . .x ’Ulu" ". n " .' ‘." ' .'\ I. ,I. -, '\:’/r
_, _ ' ‘ l' . ,. . . . , . :
1| 2. -.v ‘ \ .. IJH \\\|\‘v\|"vlll “NIH"; x'll’.\.‘V.lEb5:/”Ill

 

Rabbit in the Moonlight
ELIZABETH LEE WILLIAMS

He hops about the velvet lawn on velvet—slippered feet,

A hunted timid little thing in search of food to eat.

With watchfulness his only hope, and flight his sole defense,
Alert to every sight and sound while searching for his fare.
And oft he stops'and stands erect with every muscle tense,
Watchfulness his only hope, and flight his sole defense.

And if he spies an enemy he cow‘ers low with fright,

Then off he goes, a small dark streak, across the silver night.

One of the Hardiest of Birds

WILLIS MEHANNA

HE horned lark of our midwest prairies is one of the most

self-reliant of birds. This lark stays in the north all win—
ter, often spending cold, stormy nights out on the open, wind—
swept prairies. But it never freezes or starves. After severe
blizzards other birds are sometimes found frozen and starved
but not the horned lark. When the snow covers up the food
out on the open spaces horned larks will come in ﬂocks and
feed in the barn and feed-lots of farms, sometimes going inside
the stock sheds and buildings after food. Farmers always
make them welcome and can get as close to them as to domestic
poultry.

This bird nests very early in the spring in pastures and
meadow. It lays four or .ﬁve grayish, spotted eggs and is
generally successful in bringing its young to maturity. It
rears two broods in a season. The markings of the horned
lark are very similar to those of the quail, though it is much
smaller and less shy. All through the long, hot days of
summer, in the daytime, the male bird perches on a fencepost
or low bush and sings his song. He has a part and place in
the summer setting.

His food is insects, weeds-seeds and sometimes a little grain,
but not enough of the latter to hurt. Being adapted to civil-
ized conditions he is sure to survive.

Golden Rule Boys Lose Friend

TEARS dim the eyes of the Golden Rule Farm boys in
Franklin, N. H. They have lost their friend, “Tootsie.”
Tootsie was just a dog and not a thoroughbred as dogs go.
But these boys loved Tootsie as only boys can love a dog, and
Tootsie loved them.

For two years she lived at the Golden Rule Farm, giving
her friends, the boys, several litters of puppies. Then she
moved to a large city where automobiles bewildered her. One
of these strange machines struck her and she died.

Perhaps this dog was only a mongrel and of little value.
The world paid no heed to her death. But in the hearts of
ﬁfty boys there is sadness today. Tomorrow, when these ﬁfty
boys are men, they will recall with fond memories the never
failing welcome and wag of the tail of an ever loyal friend,
Tootsie.

She accomplished what many humans fail to do. Her kind
presence made the world a better place.

 

 

Photo by Bachrach
THE PERFECT FRIENDSHIP—A BOY AND A DOG

 

Mouse Shows Human Traits
EDITH MONTROSE

MET “Mobi,” the wood mouse, one day during my summer

vacation in the deep woods. I was eating my lunch under a
great balsam when a shifting ray of sunlight chanced to
sparkle on her nervous jet eyes. During the days that fol-
lowed I observed several human characteristics in the tiny,
hunted creature.

She soon overcame her natural timidity and would boldly
come to my outstretched hand, eating the crumbs or apple—
seeds, seeming as contented as a child with candy.

Mobi was extremely proud of her courage and liked to “show
off.” It pleased her immensely to bring other members of her
colony to feast with her. On such occasions she was always
more daring than when coming alone. One day she was sur-
rounded by her companions, although none except Mobi ven-
tured as close as my hand. Quickly eating the crumbs I held
she ran up my arm and stood poised on my shoulder, for all
the world like an actress surveying an appreciative audience.

Mobi had complete conﬁdence in my friendship and knew I
was the one living thing in her life who did not seek to
destroy her.

Answers to “Hidden Animals” puzzle last month: 1. Cat.
2. Calf. 3. Tiger. 4. Dog. 5. Lamb. 6. Pig. 7. Rat or Ewe. 8.
Mare. 9. Horse. 10. Bear. 11. Goat. 12. Beaver.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

Apr. 1937

 

Founded by Geo. T. Angell. Incorporated March, 1868

DR. FRANCIS H. RO'WLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds
JOHN R. MACOMRER, Chairman of the Board, First
Boston Corporation
CHARLES G. BANCROF’I‘, Vice-President, United Shoe
Machinery Corporation
PHILIP STOCKTON, President, First National Bank of
Boston

Prosecuting omcers in Boston
Telephone (Complaints, Ambulances) Longwood6100
L. WILLARD WALKER, Chief Officer
HARRY L. ALLEN DAVID A. BOLTON
HARVEY R. FULLER HOWARD WILLAND

County Prosecuting Ofﬁcers
HERMAN N. DEAN, Boston
Middlesex, Norfolk and Plymouth
FRED T. VICKERS, Lynn Eastern Essex
WILLIAM W. HASWELL, Methuen Western Essex
FRED F. HALL, Springfield
Hampden, Hampshire and Franklin
ROBERT L. DYSON, Worcester Worcester
CHARLES E. BROWN, Attlebcu'o Bristol
HAROLD G. ANDREWS, Hyannis
Barnstable, Dukes and Nantucket
T. KING HASWELL, Pittsfield Berkshire

Rest Farm for Horses and Small Animal Shelter,
Methuen
W. W. HASWELL, Superintendent

Taunton Branch of Mass. 5. P. C. A.—MRS.
HOWARD F. WOODWARD, Pres.; MRS. THOS. H. CAS-
WELL, Sec.

Women’s Auxiliary of the Mass. S. P. C. A., 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston—MRS. EDITH WASHBURN
CLARKE, Pres.; MRS. HARRY COLE, Treas.; MRS.
AGNES P. FISHER, Ch. Work Com. First Tuesday.

Springﬁeld Branch Auxiliary—MRS. DONALD C.
KIBBE, Pres.; MRS. HERBERT F. PAYNE, Treas. Second
Thursday.

Winchester Branch Auxiliary—MRS. RICHARD S.
TAYLOR, Pres.; MISS BESSIE SMALL, Treas. Second
Thursday.

Fitchburg Branch, Am. Humane Education Soc.—
MRS. EDITH WASHBURN CLARKE, Pres.; CAPT. WIL-
LIAM K. YOUNGLOVE, Treas.

MONTHLY REPORT OF SOCIETY
AND BRANCHES

Miles traveled by humane ofﬁcers . . 12,429
Cases investigated ........ . . . . 369
Animals examined . . . ........ . . 3,814
Animals placed in homes. . . . . . . . 153
Lost animals restored to owners. . . 61
Number of prosecutions ........ 1
Number of convictions . . . . . . . . .. 1
Horses taken from work ......... 10
Horses humanely put to sleep . . . 31

Small animals humanely put to sleep 1,156
Stock-yards and Abattoirs

Animals inspected . 60,507
Cattle, swine and sheep humanely
put to sleep .................. 16

The Massachusetts Society for the Pre-
vention of Cruelty to Animals has been re
membered in the will of Rachel A. Samuel
Of Somerville.

March 9, 1937.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

ANGELL MEMORIAL ANIMAL
HOSPITAL

and Dispensary for Animals
184 Longwood Avenue Telephone, Longwood 6100

Veterinarians

. DAILEY, v.M.D., Chief of Staff

. SCHNEIDER, v.M.D., Asst. Chief

. SCHROEDER, D.V.M.

. SC‘HNELLE, v.M.D.

. MUNSON, v.M.D.

. BLAKELY, v.M.D.

HARRY L. ALLEN, Superintendent

Springﬁeld Branch
Telephone 4-7355

53-57 Bliss Street, Springﬁeld, Mass.

Veterinarians
A. R. EVANS, v.M.D.
H. L. SMEAD, D.V.M.

oaomwm
bonanza:

 

 

 

HOSPITAL REPORT FOR FEBRUARY
Including Springﬁeld Branch

Hospital Dispensary
Cases entered 911 Cases 2,718
Dogs 680 Dogs 1,254
Cats 227 Cats 434
Birds 2 Birds 22‘
Horses 2 Goats 2

Horses 2

Monkeys 2

Squirrel 1

Fox 1
Operations 993

Hospital cases since Opening, Mar.

1,1915 ........... 147,533
Dispensary cases ....... . . . . . . . . . 360,244
Total 507,777

The Month in the Springﬁeld Branch
Cases. entered in Hospital . . . . . . . . . . 107
Cases entered in Dispensary . . . . . . . . 519
Operations . . .............. . . . . . ..... 189

An effort to improve the welfare of Lon-
don dogs by providing playgrounds for them
with money paid in dog licenses is made in
a bill to be introduced into parliament. Ap-
proximately $5,000,000 is paid annually on
dog licenses.

is ”ﬁg

‘ 1

'i

'5‘. I m
' rmmananaa

Page 57

A Protest

WAS taken to visit a well—known “Ani-

mal Farm,” last summer, and expected
from what I had been told in advance, that
the visit would be something Of a pleasure.
I pictured the animals in roomy enclosure-s,
with freedom to take healthful exercise; not
forced, by such narrow conﬁnes as are af-
forded in many public places, to spend their
energies in restless pacing back and forth.
However, what I found ﬁlled me with pity,
and a determination to raise my voice in
protest against such cruelty. Conditions at
this place are no worse than they are in
other places. I think the animals are neither
ill—fed nor abused, but the cruelty lies in
conﬁning wild creatures within the cramp—
ing limits Of cages, merely to satisfy the
curiosity of man.

One sight that would arouse the sympathy
and ire Of any thoughtful person was that
of two small monkeys fastened by short
chains to either end Of a teeter—like con-
trivance in such a way that when one
came to the ground, the other had no choice
but to grasp his end of the frame and go
up into the air, which position he must
maintain until his companion decided to
leave the ground again. At frequent inter-
vals this see-saw was in action, actually
giving no freedom to either animal.

In a. cage too small to allow even pacing
back and forth, a Royal Bengal tiger
(beautiful creature!) kept turning around,
seeking the freedom which was his right.

Another regrettable thing was a merry-
gO-round of little goats drawing carts in
which children rode, the extreme weariness
Of the goats showing in every motion, when
I saw them at ﬁve in the afternoon.

In a small cage that looked like nothing
but a shipping-crate were two mountain
lions whose whimpering cries seemed a re-
buke to their captors.

Quick death from a bullet, with subse-
quent mounting for a museum exhibit,
would be humane, at least, and furnish suf-
ﬁcient material for educational purposes.

VIOLA F. RICHARDS

 

ANIMALS ENTERING THE AMERICAN FONDOUK, FEZ, MOROCCO _

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

July, 1937

 

Founded by Geo. T. Angel]. Incorporated March, 1868

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds
JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First
Boston Corporation
CHARLES G. BANCROF'I‘, Vice-President, United Shoe
Machinery Corporation
PHILIP STOCKTON, President, First National Bank of
Boston

Prosecuting Ofﬁcers in Boston
Telephone (Complaints,AmbuIances) Longwood- 6100
L. WILLARD WALKER, Chief Officer
HARRY L. ALLEN DAVID A. BOLTON
HARVEY R. FULLER HOWARD WILLAND

County Prosecuting Ofﬁcers

HERMAN N. DEAN, Boston
Middlesex, Norfolk and Plymouth
FRED T. VICKERS, Lynn Eastern Essex
WILLIAM W. HASWELL, Methuen Western Essex
FRED F. HALL, Springfield
Hampden, Hampshire and Franklin
ROBERT L. DYSON, Worcester Worcester
CHARLES E. BROWN, Attleboro Bristol
HAROLD G. ANDREWS, Hyannis
Barnstable, Dukes and Nantucket
T. KING HASWELL, Pittsfield Berkshire

Rest Farm for Horses and Small Animal Shelter,
Methuen

W. W. HASWELL, Superintendent

Taunton Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.—MRS.
HOWARD F. WOODWARD, Pres.; MRS. THOS. H. CAS-
WELL, Sec..

Women’s Auxiliary of the Mass. S. P. C. A., 180
Longwood Avenue. Boston—MRS. EDITH WASHBURN
CLARKE, Pres.; MRS. HARRY COLE, Treas.; MRS.
AGNES P. FISHER, Ch. Work Com. First Tuesday.

Springﬁeld Branch Auxiliary—MRS. DONALD C.
KIBBE, Pres.; MRS. HERBERT F. PAYNE, Treas. Second
Thursday.

Winchester Branch Auxiliary—MRS. RICHARD S.
TAYLOR, Pres.; MISS BESSIE SMALL, Treas. Second
Thursday.

Fitchburg Branch, Am. Humane Education Soc.—
MR. FRANCIS KIELTY, Pres.; BRADLEY W. LEONARD,

reas.

MONTHLY REPORT OF SOCIETY
AND BRANCHES

Miles traveled by humane ofﬁcers. . 13,616
Cases investigated ............... 497
Animals examined ............... 5,312
Animals placed in homes ......... 193
Lost animals restored to owners. . . 63
Number of prosecutions .......... 9
Number of convictions ............ 8
Horses taken from work ........... 23
Horses humanely put to sleep. . . . 73

Small animals humanely put to sleep 2,256
Stock-yards and Abattoirs

Animals inspected ................ 55,594
Cattle, swine and sheep humanely
put to sleep .................... 29

Husband—“I read here in the paper that
it takes 1,000 camels annually to make
paint brushes.”

-Wife—“Do tell! Isn’t it wonderful how
they can train animals to do things!”

-—Fl0rida Times Union

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

ANGELL MEMORIAL ANIMAL
HOSPITAL
and Dispensary for Animals
184 Longwood Avenue Telephone, Longwood 6100

Veterinarians

. DAILEY, v.M.D., Chief of Staﬁ

. SCHNEIDER, v.M.D., Asst. Chief

. SCHROEDER, D.v.M.

. SCHNELLE, v.M.D.

. MUNSON, v.M.D.

. BLAKELY, v.M.D.

HARRY L. ALLEN, Superintendent

CERES?
Rowena:

Springfield Branch

Telephone 4-7355
53-57 Bliss Street, Springﬁeld, Mass.

Veterinarians
R. EVANS, v.M.D.
L. SMEAD, D.v.M.

P?

 

 

 

HOSPITAL REPORT FOR MAY
Including Springﬁeld Branch

Hospital Dispensary
Cases entered 901 Cases 2,466
Dogs 724 Dogs 2,101
Cats 161 Cats 321
Birds 10 Birds 28
Horses 3 Horses 5
Monkeys 2 Goats 7
Rabbit 1 Rabbits 3

Guinea Pig 1

Operations 787
Hospital cases since Opening, Mar.

1, 1915 ....................... 150,130
Dispensary cases ................ 367,441
Total ............. 517,571

The Month in the Springﬁeld Branch
Cases entered in Hospital .......... 120
Cases entered in Dispensary ........ 377
Operations ........................ 166

MASS S. P. C. A. IN THE COURTS

Some Prosecutions in May

For inﬂicting unnecessary cruelty upon a
dog by abandonlng it, a defendant was
found gullty and ﬁned $25.

For cruelly beating a horse with wire

whiplash, the Offender was convicted and
case was ﬁled.

. A truckman was ﬁned $10 for overcrowd-
ing and cruelly transporting calves and a
0g.

A defendant was convicted and ﬁned $20
for cruelly kicking a dog. He appealed the
ﬁne, pleaded guilty in Superior Court and
case was ﬁled.

For selling a horse that was unﬁt for
labor, defendant pleaded nolo. Upon re-
{filmdd of the purchase price the case was

e .

An Offender was convicted of cruel muti-
lation of a dog, and neglect tO care for it
after Operation. He was put on probation
for six months.

Three defendants were joined in a case
Of cruel mutilation of a dog by cutting Off
its tail. The owner was ﬁned $10 for per-
mitting the docking act and the two juven-
iles were found delinquent and case was
continued for disposition.

The Massachusetts Society for the Pre-
vention of Cruelty to Animals has been re-
membered in the wills of John W. Thomson
of Pittsﬁeld, Nelson W. Jenny Of Lexing-
ton, Arthur W. Nelson of Brockton, and
Emma I. Shaw Of Springﬁeld.

June 8, 1937.

Page 105

Auxiliary Visits Farm at
Methuen

EMBERS of the Women’s Auxiliary Of

the Massachusetts S. P. C. A. enjoyed
their annual day at the Society’s Rest Farm
at Methuen on June 1. Invitations were sent
to club members and friends of the Society
in Methuen, Lawrence and Andover, who
attended as guests. The company made a
tour of the farm, including the small animal
shelter. Coffee and cake were served from
3 to 5 P. M. by Mrs. William Haswell, the
hostess, assisted by a committee comprising
Mrs. Willard Bliss, Mrs. Christine Walker,
Miss Kathrine Walker, Mrs. Charles C.
Hoyt, Mrs. John A. Dykeman and Mrs. A.
T. Galpin. Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke,
president, gave a Short talk on the work of
the Auxiliary and the Objects of the Society.
Despite the extreme heat Of the day, all
seemed to have a good time and many
expressions of appreciation were heard for
Superintendent and Mrs. Haswell and the
Ofﬁcers of the Auxiliary.

Spread Of the Humane
Movement
Editor, Our Dumb Animals:

Proof, if any were needed, of the Spread
of the humane movement was given by mem-
bers of the Boston Fire Department on an
evening in May last when a smoky cellar
ﬁre, necessitating the sounding of a mul-
tiple alarm, was discovered on Canal Street.

A few doors away was Situated a pet
shop Whose proprietors had left for the
day. On arrival of the ﬁremen entrance
was made to the Shop, and the shop ven-
tilated both in the front and rear, with the
result that when the owners arrived, it was
found that not an animal or bird had been
lost.

The attention Of the Massachusetts S. P.
C. A. was called to the foregoing by the
writer who was on the scene shortly after
the sounding of the ﬁrst alarm.

Suitable recognition of the ﬁre depart-
ment’s work was shown in a letter from
the President Of the Society tO Commis-
sioner McLaughlin, said letter being re-
printed in general orders to the department.

DAVID O. KILBY

A Treasury Of Prayer

Compiled for use in St. John’s Church, Edinburgh,
and in its Daughter-Church, St. Kentigern’s

Hear our humble prayer, 0 God, for our
friends the animals, especially for animals
that are suffering; for all that are over-
worked and underfed and cruelly treated;
for all wistful creatures in captivity that
beat against their bars; for any that are
hunted or lost or deserted or frightened; for
all that are in pain or dying; for all that
must be put to death.

We entreat for them all Thy mercy and
pity, and for those who deal with them we
ask a heart of compassion and gentle hands
and kindly words. Make ourselves to be
true friends to animals, and SO to share the
blessing of the merciful, for the sake of
Thy Son the Compassionate, Jesus Christ
our Lord.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

Feb. 1937

Animals and Celebrations

L. E. EUBANKS

11F our dumb animals could have a vote
on the subject, I suspect that such
days as Christmas, Thanksgiving and Eas—
ter would become very unpopular. Many
thousands of people are completely in-
different as to the suffering of animals;
if imposition on the dumb creatures will
add to so—called pleasure or proﬁt, that’s
all that matters.

The inconsiderate, not to say heartless
treatment of rabbits and chickens at Eas—
ter has ﬁnally called out some remon-
strance. Mrs. M. W. Baldwin, of Sioux
City, Iowa, aroused the right feeling when
she wrote, “During the last week Easter
rabbits and kittens have been brought to
the shelter for disposal. They were once
ﬂuffy white, pink-nosed playful little crea-
tures that had been given to children as
gifts at Easter time and constant hand—
ling had reduced them to subjects for
the chloroform box.”

The city of Milwaukee has adopted an
ordinance at the behest of the Wisconsin
Humane Society relative to the display
and sale of dyed baby chicks. It reads:

“No person or dealer shall display or
sell dyed, colored, or in any way. arti—
ﬁcially treated baby chicks or ducklings
as pets or novelties. This ordinance
shall not be construed to prohibit the dis-
play or sale of natural chicks or duck—
lings in proper brooder facilities by hatch-
eries or stores engaged in the business of
selling the same to be raised for food;
but no such store or hatchery shall sell
baby chicks as pets or novelties.

“Any person, ﬁrm or corporation vio-
lating any of the provisions of this sec-
tion shall be punished by a ﬁne of not
less than one dollar nor more than
twenty—ﬁve dollars for each and, every
offense.”

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Page 21

Boakc Carter’s Tribute to His Dog

OAKE CARTER, the widely known
B news commentator for the Philco

Radio Company, speaking to some
6,000,000 listeners, November 24, last, paid
this rarely beautiful and touching tribute
to his faithful and devoted dog, “Rags,” who
had just passed into the “Great Beyond.”

To a Gentleman

Today—a gentleman died. Not many
people knew him. But I—I had that great
and good fortune. He had a heart of gold.
His loyalty to his friends was of that un—
swerving kind, unassailable by the perfi—
dies or treacheries of vacillating man—
kind.

He used to sit with me by the hour and
never say- a word—and yet his very si-
lence spoke volumes with a greater pun-
gency than could be attained by the spoken
word itself.

His courage was of steel—yet he could
be as gentle of touch as the brush of a
wind-blown thistledown from a country
field against the human face. I watched
him as a young man—with all a young-
ster’s juvenile quips, pranks and fancies,
and the twinkle of mischief in his eyes.

I watched the habits of maturity fasten
themselves upon. him as the year's slipped
by. I traveled with him many thousands
of miles, and no more understanding co—
wanderer could one find, search he high
or low, far or wide. He never thrust him—
self upon. others. He never grew excited
and he never bored you with airy persi—
flage and aimless conversation. He knew
the life of shipboard, for he sailed many
a round—trip voyage from New York and
Mexico. He even once sampled that most
modern form of transportation—only, it
must be admitted, at my coaxing—and
flew to Chicago and back with me.

 

MR. AND MRS. GEORGE ARLISS, STAUNCH FRIENDS

OF ANIMALS

Yet, withal, he was a venturesome fel-
low. Once he fell off a Rhode Island
cliff, to suffer injury that demanded the
utmost patience and taxed his spirit sore—
ly, for the doctors thrust him into a plas-
ter of Paris cast.

Once, he even fell out of my automobile
on the outskirts of New Haven, but the
hospital assured us both that a miracle
had Occurred. No injuries, beyond a few
scratches, could be found. And so Time
went on—until one day a malignant tu—
mor, with which he had wrestled for a
year or two, struck suddenly a deadly
blow. Its poison destroyed the sight of
his right eye.

From then on began the gradual sink-
ing of a great and kindly soul. He strug-
gled valiantly not to show his impedi—
ment, or permit it to inconvenience him.
His spirit he kept high. He talked,
laughed, with his long white teeth shining
out from between the moustache and
beard of which he was so proud—and his
step was firm. But every now and then,
when someone came up from his right
side to greet him, only then did he falter,
and I realized that things were not as
they used to be. And so Time passed on
again—and gradually the sight of the one
good eye grew dimmer and dimmer—until
suddenly it, too, went out like the flame
of some last candle of light.

And then he turned to me for reliance
and help as his best friend. It used to
hurt to see him sitting dejectedly by him-
self, a picture of abandonment, his chin
almost on his chest, the orbs of his unsee—
ing eyes a lifeless mist of blue. Every
now and then he used to shake his head,
as though he hoped this would clear away
that mist. But it was no use.

With help and patience he learned to
circumvent objects by feel and sense of
touch. But once he fell down a flight of
steps, and then the bumps began to come
more often. He smiled a little, but not
as often. He talked seldom. His sense of
smell became blunted. He only slept——
like old gentlemen snooze comfortably in
the club arm chair, when they really get
on in years.

United States Senator George Vest once
remarked: “The best friend a man has
may turn against him and become his en-
emy. His son or daughter that he has
reared with loving care may prove un—
grateful. Those whom we trust with our
happiness and our good name may be-
come traitors to their faith. The money
that a man has he may lose. A man’s
reputation may be sacriﬁced in a mo-
ment of ill-considered action. The people
who are prone to do us honor when suc—
cess is with us may be the ﬁrst to throw
the stone of malice when failure settles
its cloud upon our heads. The only ab—
solutely unselﬁsh friend that man can
have in this selﬁsh world, the one that
never deserts him, that never proves un-
grateful or treacherous, is his dog.”

And thus my dog—Rags—of whom you
have heard me speak once or twice be-
fore, the wiriest of wire—haired, but with-
al a gentleman of the old school, with

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

7—— 7 H, .7 _., , W——§maﬁf-;aaggﬁili‘fe, ‘

Page 60
Wild Geese

ELEANOR DENNIS

A flock of geese was flying low

Against the thick and blinding snow.
Their honking pierced the silent gray
As frantically they sought their way.

A hunter saw them going by,

And raised his gun against the sky.
I heard the sharp and quick report,
And hated him who called it sport.

If You Drive at Night

L. E. EUBANKS

MAN W0 had just run his car over a
dog (and left it yelping in the road)
was scolded by his companion.

“I didn’t see it in time,” the driver pro-
tested; “you wouldn’t expect me to stop
when I was within six feet of him, would
you? The headlights of that car meeting
us at the time blinded me, too.”

It seems that drivers of even a little ex—
perience would learn and remember that
under average conditions of night driving
the eye cannot keep up with the car.

In the dark, the pupil of the eye must
expand to a maximum to gather as much
light as possible, and when a brilliant beam
strikes the wide-opened pupil one is pain_
fully dazzled. Further, the pupil expands
about sixty times slower than it contracts.
If it needs one~sixteenth of a second to con—
tract under the impact of a brilliant head-
light, it will need approximately three and
three-quarter seconds to expand enough to
enable us to see on the dim road after the
offending car has passed. Should we be
traveling forty miles an hour, our car would
move 220 feet during this partial blindness.

And many things can happen in! that dis-
tance!

The-re is only one cure for a big class of
auto accidents, including the killing of dumb
animals on the road, and that is slower
driving. Many persons have never thought
of the effect of the car’s action on their
sight. Suppose your car is standing still
and a dog is in the road about eighty feet
ahead. Do you see him (by your car
lights)? Perhaps. But that means very
little; if you were driving toward the dog
at, say, thirty-ﬁve miles an hour, you’d prob-
ably be within ﬁfty feet of him before you
saw him—if at all. And note this: At
thirty-ﬁve mile-s an hour you can’t stop in
less than 100 feet. Good-bye, dog!

If facing the glare of headlights is con—
fusing to the autoists, think how much more
so it must be to animals—especially to wild
creatures. They may appear to do very
“dumb” things, but so do pedestrians; there
1s something appalling, paralyzing in the
sight of a car rushing upon one! One man,
in- court for having killed a dog, tried to
laugh the matter off and claimed that “the
crazy brute deliberately ran into the car.”
The fact was that the fellow’s speed was so
great (sixty miles an hour) that it made
the dog seem to be approaching. So easy to
blame the dumb animal, especially when it
lies dead—murdered by recklessness!

OUR DUMB

Protection through Mimicry

CHLOE H. NULL

N Southern Asia and the East Indies is
found, in considerable numbers, an insect
that is protected from its natural enemies
by its striking resemblance to a leaf. This
resemblance is carried out by ribbed and

 

GREEN LEAF INSECT

veined wings folded together after the man-
ner of a leaf, by a ﬂattened leaf-shaped
body and by leaf-like appendages on its legs,
while its color is a bright green, ﬂecked ir-
regularly with small yellowish spots like
those made by the attacks of fungi on live
leaves. This insect, the family name of
which, signiﬁes “mimicry,” is commonly
known as the leaf insect. It spends
its life among the foliage on which it
feeds, moving about very slowly. Because
of its size, which approaches three inches in
length, it would be an easy prey to birds
and other enemies were it not for its pro—
tective shape and coloring.

Nor does its resemblance to vegetation
cease with its leafy aspect, since its eggs
bear a marvelous similarity to certain plant
seeds, both in appearance and structure.

Another member of this remarkable fam—
ily of mimics is the walking stick or stick
insect that is found in most portions of the

 

THE STICK INSECT

ANIMALS

Apr. 1937

United States. This insect, greenish brown
in color, with a long, slender, Wingless body
and slender legs, has a startling resemb-
lance to a leafless twig, as many a person
ﬁnds out in hazel-nutting time when an
apparently dry twig, some three inches
long, limbers up long legs and ambles away
from under one’s very ﬁnger tips. The twig
insect feeds on, the leaves of forest trees,
having a particular liking for nut-tree and
bush foliage. It is slow in its movements
and often remains quiet for a long time in
one place, obviously depending on its mim-
icry of form for its protection.

Are Wild Creatures
Dangerous?

HENRY H. GRAHAM

ANY people attempt to justify the

shooting of wild animals on the
ground that they are dangerous to human
beings, a grave menace, in fact. But are
they truly dangerous? History fails to cor-
roborate such beliefs. The experience of
naturalists is contrary to the claims of
nimrods.

It is commonly supposed that few ani-
mals are more dangerous than a mother
bear with cubs. Yet, unless provoked, I
am convinced Mrs. Bruin will always take
her babies away into the brush with her,
leaving human beings strictly alone.

One early autumn day while walking
along a lonely mountain brook I encoun-
tered a black bear accompanied by two cute
little shaggy cubs. The three animals were
beside a trail paralleling the stream. I
did not see them until even with them.
Naturally the sight gave me quite a
shock for I had always believed the old
saying about a mother bear and cubs.

I did not run, however, but walked lei-
surely past, all the while trying to pick
out a tree that could be easily climbed if
an emergency arose.

Mrs. Bruin, of course, gave me a sharp
once-over but never moved an inch in my
direction. The cubs ran to her side. From
the opposite hillside I watched the happy
little family at play. Pretty soon all three
ambled across the brook and disappeared
in some quaking aspens.

Undoubtedly, had I attempted to seize
one of the cubs the mother would have
made things hot for me. But human be—
ings would have done the same thing.
Since I left the bruins strictly alone and
minded my own business I was not mo-
lested. Experience-s of others prove that,
unless threatened, creatures of the wild
will seldom, if ever, attack man.

On another occasion I blundered onto a
mother porcupine and her half-grown off-
spring. The two lived in an old aban-
doned prospect hole in a cliff near my
cabin. At the time I encountered the
pair they were waddling across a little
clearing encircled by willow clumps.

As long as I kept a safe distance away
from the quill pigs they were peaceable
enough and did not threaten me. But
when I edged nearer the mother struck a
defiant attitude, stiffened her quills and
prepared for battle. But not once did she

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 10.4

Our Dumb Animals

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston Ofﬁce: 180 Longwood .Av-
enue, Boston, Mass., to which all communications
should be addressed.

Dr. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON, Editor
WILLIAM M. MORRILL, Assistant

 

JULY, 1937

 

FOR TERMS, see back cover.

AGENTS to take orders for Our Dumb Animals are
wanted everywhere. Liberal commissions are offered.

EDITORS of all periodicals who receive this pub-
lication this month are invited to reprint any of the
articles with or Without credit.

MANUSCRIPTS relating to animals, particularly
prose articles of about three hundred words, are solic-
ited. We do not wish to consider prose manuscripts
longer than 800 words nor verse in excess of thirty-
six lines. The shorter the better. All manuscripts
should be typewritten and an addressed envelope with
full return postage enclosed with each offering.

 

 

Death by Electrocution

A Bulletin issued by the University of
London Animal Welfare Society says this
with regard to the electrocution of animals:

In view of the increasing use of electro-
cution for cats and dogs, the following facts
are of importance. The relevant documenta-
tion will be given in Volume 4 of the
“Animal Year-Book.”

When 60-cycle alternating current pass-
ing from forequarters to hindquarters is
used, we may be sure that if it exceeds 250
milliamperes in the case of a dog or 50

milliamperes in the case of a cat the circu- ”

lation of the blood will have been stopped
within three seconds. In such cases electro-
cution is humane.

If, on the other hand, the current is less
than 70 mA. in the case of a dog or 19 mA.
in the case of a cat, we may be certain that
death is preceded by a period of severe
suffering caused by muscular spasm.

If the current lies between the limits
stated death may be humane or not, accord-
ing to the constitution of the individual
animal.

The effect of electric current on an ani-
mal cannot be reliably speciﬁed in terms of
voltage.

The Massachusetts Society for the Pre-
vention of Cruelty to Animals still believes,
from its long experience, that death by
illuminating gas is the humanest method

for such small animals as the dog and the
cat.

How Much is a Billion?

How many minutes do you think have
been crowded into the 1937 years since the
Christian Era dawned? Only a few over a
billion. To be exact, 1,018,087,200. A dollar
a minute for 1937 years would amount to
a single billion. Yet we are told that as a
nation we are thirty-ﬁve billions in debt.
Who can think in billions? Senator Byrd
says that if a man earning $100 a week
were to attempt to pay it all out on the

national debt it would take him 200,000
years.

In making your will, please remember
the Massachusetts Society for the Preven-
tion of Cruelty to Animals.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

The Incredible Sparrows

N interesting letter from Mrs. C. M.
Holton, wife of Lieut. Com. Holton, says,
“The ‘Beeps’ arrived safely in Shanghai,
having completed the sixteen hundred mile
journey from Manila. Mr. and Mrs. Beep
and six of the children came up on the
Blackhawk with my husband when his ship
left Manila, just one week before I sailed.
‘Beep, Jr.,’ ‘Ichang’ twin, and his brother
whom we called ‘Small Piece,’ with one of
the Baby Beeps born in Manila we named
‘Aggie,’ came north with me on the Em-
preSs of Japan.”

When Mrs. Holton sailed those that stayed
with her took shelter in one of the life boats
of the ship where she fed them. Now they
are all together again. She also says that
when one of the birds mates with another
not of their special group, it leaves with
its mate but does not return, so that now
while there are several unmated, the only
female of the family is Mrs. Beep who is
still alive. They all seem to be in ﬂourish-
ing condition.

We still occasionally run across somebody
who thinks this wonderful story of the
English sparrows cannot be true, but it has
been veriﬁed by too many thoroughly praise-
worthy witnesses to be denied.

A Correction Corrected

In the April issue of this magazine we
stated that “the shooting and trapping of
birds on the Island of Capri had been com-
pletely forbidden by Mussolini himself.
N OW we are told that it was not Mussolini,
but the Minister of Agriculture who signed
a decree in 1932 forbidding until further
orders, the shooting and netting of birds
on the Island of Capri.”

Since then we have received a letter from
Signor Orlando, ofﬁcial of the National
Federation of Italian Societies for the Pro-
tection of Animals, which says:

“It was Mussolini himself who wanted
the prohibition and for this reason the Min—
ister of Agriculture signed the relative
decreef’

We also said, “The shooting on the Island
has ceased, but the netting and trapping of
the birds is still allowed to continue.”

To this Signor Orlando says: “This net-
ting and trapping is not allowed, is still
prohibited, but it is not possible now to
prevent it entirely as secretly practised so
often by peasants and children.”

Turks Island

Our congratulations to Mrs. Charles E.
Frith, that devoted humane worker and her
Band of Mercy of 93 members, who has
nearly single-handed awakened and kept
active the work for animals in this posses-
sion of the British crown. The Island last
year suffered from what was almost a fam-
ine but Be Kind to Animals Week was
observed and the principles of kindness,
justice and compassion were kept alive in
the hearts of the children of the schools. Of
such workers one may indeed say “Of such
is the Kingdom of Heaven.”

The American Humane Association will
meet at Milwaukee, Wis., October 4—7.

July, 1937

Air Rifles and Pistols

HROWING stones, snowballs or other

missiles, or shooting with bow and arrow
or slingshot is forbidden by a city ordinance
in the city of Boston. Chapter 39, Section
43. It is also forbidden anyone to sell to a
minor under 15, or to an alien, any ﬁrearm,
air-gun or other dangerous weapon or am-
munition therefor.

The Christian Science Monitor on June 3
reports that air pistols and air riﬂes are
on New York City’s forbidden list today,
following aldermanic enactment of a city
ordinance banning both their sale and pos-
session.

The action was strongly urged by Police
Commissioner Lewis J. Valentine, who
classes these toys as dangerous weapons,
based on heavy accident tolls from their
use in which the eyesight of more than
500 children has been affected.

Violation of the ordinance entails a ﬁne
of $50, a 30-day jail sentence, or both.
Only devices used in a duly licensed amuse-
ment place or at riﬂe or pistol ranges duly
authorized are excepted from its terms.

Balance of Nature

In a small English village cats found
guilty of killing poultry were destroyed.
Result—a few summers later the honey crop
failed. Investigation showed that the dearth
of cats led to scarcity of honey. How?

Cats don’t make honey. No, but cats eat
ﬁeld mice.

Fewer cats, more mice uneaten.

Mice destroyed the nests of bumble bees.

More mice, fewer bumble bees.

Bumble bees fertilize the clover crop by
searching for pollen.

Fewer bumble bees, fewer clover ﬂowers
and, therefore, less honey for the honey bees
to gather.

In short, fewer cats, less honey.

That is an example of the Balance of
Nature and how man is always upsetting
it, sometimes to his cost. When the balance
of nature is upset, sooner or later it’s
“news.”

J. LANGDON-DAVIES in N ews-Chronicle

Tucson Humane Society

After a year and a half of re-organiza-
tion the Humane Society of Tucson, Ari-
zona, is making ﬁne progress, especially in
humane education. Under the able super-
vision of Mrs. Alice B. Schubert, president,
this Society has organized recently 95
Bands of Mercy, representing thirteen
schools, with a total membership of 3,438.
The good work of this organization in caring
for unwanted pets has been recognized in
a leading editorial in the Arizona Daily
Star.

The All India Animals’ Welfare Society
has been organized recently with the object
of promoting humane education in schools
throughout India. The Society would wel-
come contributions of literature from other
Humane Societies. Address: Amar Singh
Tourist, The All India Animals’ Welfare
Society, The Fort, Gujrat, Punjab, India.

 

 

 




 

10 CENTS

PRICE

 

 

 

[/11
t I I
will

I
111/
,1
r

l

I. .
II

I

I;
I”! I I

 

1/10:

é’llll’IIII/

 

 

-~'—

mIIIIIIIiIIIIIIIIIIII

IIIIIIII
""1““qu

um—

. a. .
.,...,_,a... E
. Ea»... ..

I

,. s? w...

.- 1’ inf—é

ll IIIIITIIIIITITWIIIII'II.

I , .
H/ 2 x r

3 3V zhu III
ﬁzzir/zlz. ,1 LI

Tirﬁr/Q: . wild ..9

1/ I II; . I .1: l. I . “II I
III/rt. MC. 7 I, II III“, In! lll'll'l‘
all I»... f: I. l I II I'llri

llllmmmll[mI"Il1I"lIlllﬂllmmmmﬂlﬂﬂ

II-T'Eo

£01013”:

 

 

't New

02

sy of Detr

Courte

(See page 1 83)

“NO CHILD WITHOUT A CHRISTMAS”

THE MASSACHUSETTS SOCIETY FOR THE

PREVENTION OF CRUELTY To ANIMALS
and THE AMERICAN l-IUMANE EDUCATION

SOCIETY ~

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 152

Our Dumb Animals

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston Ofﬁce: 180 Longwood Av-
enue, Boston, Mass., to which all communications
should be addressed.

Dr. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON, Editor

WILLIAM M. MORRILL, Assistant

 

OCTOBER, 1937

 

FOR TERMS, see back cover.

AGENTS, to take orders for Our Dumb Animals are
wanted everywhere. Liberal commissions are offered.

_ EDITORS of all periodicals who receive this pub-
lication this month are invited to reprint any of the
articles with or without credit.

MANUSCRIPTS relating to animals, particularly
prose articles of about three hundred words, are solic-
ited. We do not wish to consider prose manuscripts
longer than 800 words nor verse in excess of thirty-
SIX lines. The shorter the better. All manuscripts
should be typewritten and an addressed envelope with
full return postage enclosed with each offering.

 

 

The Fondouk at Fez

AST August we gave our readers the

annual report of Mr. Delon, the super-
intendent at Fez. It was most encouraging
as it showed the number of out-patients had
more than doubled over those of 1935.

We reproduce here the equally interest-
ing report of the honorary secretary, Mr.
Charles A. Williams.

The city authorities have reorganized the
veterinary services, which are now as fol—
lows:

1st. Head of the Service d’Elevage.

2nd. Ofﬁcial veterinary of the City of
Fez.

3rd. Ofﬁcial veterinary of the suburbs of
Fez, where the distances are tremendous
from each section to another—Ville Nou-
velle to Gate Guisse, for example, is ﬁve
miles.

These three serve the Fondouk, one or
another every day for one or more hours,
depending on the number of patients.

The four Arab grooms are now in uni-
form and empowered by both French and
Arab police to hold any person maltreating
animals—overloaded, beaten or lame—un—
til an official gendarme can arrive and make
the formal arrest. Two of the grooms now
have motor bicycles and during afternoons
cover the most used streets and roads,
searching for bad cases, etc., and constant—
ly increasing the conﬁdence of the Indig-
enes in our efforts to aid them.

A cow 13 years old is reported in the
Ayrshire Digest as having given during her
lifetime 75 tons of milk.

A man called upon his medical adviser
and said: “Doctor, I can’t go to sleep at
night.”

“Insomnia, eh?”

“That’s it,” asserted the patient.

“There are ways and means of combating
that,” declared the doctor. “You think you
are hopelessly wakeful, but mental effort
has a great deal to do with getting you
to sleep. Just imagine you are walking a
tight rope a thousand feet from the ground.
Step by step you advance on this tight
ropef’

“Yes?” the patient inquired.

“You’ll soon drop off.”

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

A Humane Newspaper

ONGRATULATIONS to the Free Press,

Port Huron, Michigan, which every
week has a column on its front page under
the heading: “5 Minutes with Our Dumb
Animals.” In a recent issue quotations are
given from letters from seven citizens, all
endorsing the newspaper’s suggestion of
organizing a humane society in that city.
A coupon appears also on the front page
of the Free Press, which reads:

Friends of Dumb Animals
(Started August 16, 1937)

To appeal to human kindliness for
the prevention of cruelty to animals,
and carry on an educational campaign
for the co—operation of all who would
extend mercy to every living creature.
To this end your membership is de-
sired, without fees or dues, in this
society. Fill out and mail to Port
Huron Free Press, if you desire to
unite.

Success to the enterprise.

The Ungrateful Squirrel

The following amusing story taken from
the London Times is sent us by our good
friend, its author, Colonel Noble:

The iniquities of the gray squirrel are
as various as they are manifold. Not long
ago I saw an old lady on a seat in Re-
gent’s Park feeding a gray squirrel from
her handbag. When she had ﬁnished she
shoo—ed the squirrel away and went on
with her work. A little while afterwards
she had occasion to take something out of
her bag and it was gone. But she saw at
a considerable distance her handbag career-
ing across Regent’s Park with a small pair
of legs and a bushy tail projecting from it.
Think of the shock this must have been to
the lady’s nervous system.

I am, Sir, yours, &c.,
LEONARD NOBLE
Harpsden Court, Henley-on-Thames

The following we take from Cruel Sports,
published in London:

In his reminiscences published by the
Daily Telegraph, the Duke of Portland paid
a high tribute to the late Marquis of Ripon
who, while he was Earle de Grey, killed
between three and four hundred thousand
animals of various kinds.

He was not a butcher. He was not em-
ployed in a Chicago canning factory to
slaughter hogs. He was a sportsman. Here
is his list; Rhinoceros, 2; tiger, 11; buffalo,
12; sambur, 19; pig, 97; deer, 186; red
deer, 382; grouse, 56,460; partridges, 97,759;
pheasants, 142,843; woodcock, 2,218; snipe,
2,769; wild duck, 1,612; black game, 94;
capercailzie, 45; hares, 27,686; rabbits,
29,858; various, 9,175—Total, 370,728.

The only comment we can suggest is
that, if this is a laudable record, as the
Duke of Portland thinks, the man must
have been made in God’s image to destroy
the other creations of God.

Three Scots each bet a quarter that he
could stay under water longer than the
other two—the winner take all. All were
drowned.

Oct. 1937

Annual Auxiliary Fair

Massachusetts S. P. C. A. Women to Hold
Bazaar, November 10

EDNESDAY, November 10, will be

the date for the all-day Fair of the
Women’s Auxiliary of the Massachusetts
S. P. C. A., to be held this year at the Cop-
ley Plaza Hotel, Boston, from 10 A.M. to
5 P. M.

There will be numerous attractive fea-
tures, including a fashion show, all ar-
ranged by committees from the Auxiliary
appointed by Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke,
president. The general chairman of the
bazaar will be Mrs. Charles C. Hoyt, ﬁrst
vice-president.

The various tables or booths will be con-
ducted as follows: Food, Mrs. Herbert
Prescott; ﬂowers, Mrs. Francis G. Carreiro;
Winchester table, Mrs. Richard S. Taylor;
novelty table, Mrs. Agnes P. Fisher; candy,
Mrs. Charles F. Rowley; prophesy, Mrs.
Frank E. Towne.

The luncheon will be served under the
direction of Mrs. Willard C. Bliss. The
afternoon bridge will be in charge of Mrs.
Edward C. Brown. “Grabs” will be offered
by Miss Doris Greenwood.

The chairmen above named will be
assisted by various members of the Aux-
iliary.

All contributions of merchandise or cash
should be sent to Mrs. Willard C. Bliss, 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston.

Why Are We Dog-Minded P

And why do people keep such lots of dogs
themselves and go in such numbers to see
other peOple’s dogs? asks a writer in the
Boston Transcript. Because the dog is at
once the sincerest ﬂatterer and the most
successful cheerer that the human race ever
had.

A good dog always gives us the feeling
that we men and women are a sort of gods.
No other animal does anything of the kind.
The cat treats us as an inferior, and the
horse will treat us as a dear friend, not a
divinity. Yes, there is a solid reason for
the fondness of men for dogs, and it will
never come to an end until either men or
dogs become very different beings from
what they are now.

Welcome Words

From a subscriber in a small town in
Pennsylvania comes this enthusiastic letter,
accompanied by a dollar for renewal of
subscription to Our Dumb Animals:

Dear Sirs:

I have been so delighted with your maga-
zine for the past year that I just had to
renew my subscription.

Please continue to send it to me the same
as before.

Sincerely yours,

 

On the same day a prominent humani-
tarian and writer of New York City called
at the ofﬁce and told the editor that she
regarded Our Dumb Animals as emphati-
cally the best of all the humane publications.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 58

GLORY TO
GOD,
PEACE ON EARTH,

~ EVERY LIVING
" CREATURE.

 

Founded by Geo. T. Angell Incorporated 1889

For rates of membership in both Of our Societies
see back cover. Checks should be made payable to
Treasurer.

Ofﬁcers of the American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLVLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds
JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First
Boston Corporation
CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President, United Shoe
Machinery Corporation

PHILIP STOCKTON, President, First National Bank of
Boston

Foreign Corresponding Representatives
George B. Duff ...................

_ Australia
Luis Pareja Cornejo ............... Ecuador
Charles A. Williams .............. France
Leonard T. Hawksley Italy

Mrs. Mary P. E. NitObe. Japan
Mrs. Marie C. E. Houghton ....... Madeira

Dr. A. T. Ishkanian .............. Mexico
Joaquin Julia ..................... Spain
Mrs. Alice W. Manning ........... Turkey

Humane Press Bureau

Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke, Secretary
180 Longwood Ave., Boston

Field Workers of the Society
Mrs. Alice L. Park, Palo Alto, California
Mrs. Rachel C. Hogue, Long Beach, California.
Mrs. Jennie R. Nichols, Tacoma, Washington
James D. Burton, Harriman, Tennessee
Mrs. Katherine Weathersbee, Atlanta, Georgia
Rev. F. Rivers Barnwell, Fort Worth, Texas
Miss Blanche Finley, Richmond, Virgina
Rev. John W. Lemon, Ark, Virginia
MISS Lucia F. Gilbert, Boston, Massachusetts
Mrs. Jennie R. Toomim, Chicago, Illinois
Seymour Carroll, Columbia, South Carolina
Rev. R. E. Griffith, De Land, Florida

Field Representative
Wm. F. H. Wentzel, M. 8., Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

Field Lecturer in Massachusetts
Ella A. Maryott
SUMMARY OF ACTIVITIES OF FIELD

WORKERS FOR FEBRUARY, 1937
Number of Bands of Mercy formed,

771
Number of addresses made, 496
Number of persons in audiences, 52,519

Retired Workers’ Fund

WE are receiving gifts to the American
Humane Education Society as a trust

fund, the interest to be used for the bene-
fit of field missionaries and others who have
spent their lives in promoting humane edu-
cation. Already several cases have come

to our attention and are being relieved in
this way.

We will welcome your contribution to this
fund. Please make checks payable to Treas-
urer, American Humane Education Society,
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, and specify
that the amount contributed is for the Hu-
mane Education Trust Fund.

OUR DUMB

Humane Education
for Oregon

BILL has been introduced into the

Oregon Senate amending the present
humane education law by providing that
“not less than one hour of each week during
the whole of each term of school shall be
devoted to teaching pupils thereof kindness
and justice to and humane treatment of
animals, and the important part they ful-
ﬁll in the economy of nature . . . . The in-
struction shall be part of the curriculum of
study in all the public schools of the state.
The superintendent of public instruction, in
co—operation with the Oregon Humane So—
ciety, and any other organization devoted to
the dissemination of humane education here-
by is authorized and directed to aid in pre—
scribing the courses of instruction provided
in this act.”

Let us hope that Oregon may make this
added provision for courses of study in
humane education through cooperation with
the Humane Society.

Mrs. H. Clay Preston

After a protracted illness Mrs. Stella J.
Preston} died at her home in Binghamton,
N. Y., on February 19. She was the widow
of the late H. Clay Preston, well-known
executive of several humane societies who
died while serving as general manager of
the Connecticut Society, in 1927. Mrs.
Preston had held important positions as
humane education worker for several or-
ganizations, notably the American S. P. C.
A., New York City, and the American Hu-
mane Association, Alb-any, N. Y. She was
widely known as a lecturer and writer on hu-
mane topics and was an expert in her chos—
en ﬁeld, humane education. Soon after the
death of her husband she retired as an ac-
tive oﬂ‘icial and took up her residence in
Binghamton. She leaves a sister, Mrs.
Eleanor J. White, of Binghamton, to whom
is extended the sympathy of humane work-
ers throughout the country.

Bangor Humane Society

The well-attended annual meeting of the
Bangor (Maine) Humane Society, held in
February, indicates that that organization
is progressing very satisfactorily. The re-
port of the agent indicated that 1,237 in—
vestigations were made in 1936, 25 horses
were humane-1y destroyed, 307 dogs and 111
cats were received at the shelter, and 286
dogs and 862 cats were humanely destroyed.
The director of humane education reported
successful poster and story contests and
that 33 medals had been awarded. Radio
programs were given during Be Kind to
Animals Week. The Society is contemplating
the establishment of a pet cemetery for
Bangor.

The American Humane Education So—
ciety’s offering of cash prizes of $25 for
the best original essay of not more than
1,000 words, presenting “Arguments for
the Zoo,” and for the best essay, not ex-
ceeding 1,000 words, presenting “Argu-

ments against the Zoo,” closes May 15,
1937.

ANIMALS

 

Apr. 1937

 

A LITTLE BOY AND HIS DONKEY
AT THE AMERICAN FONDOUK,
FEZ, MOROCCO

 

American Fondouk, Fez

Report for January, 1937 — 31 Days

Daily average large animals 44.4 _
Forage for same $ 99.12
Put to sleep 54 11.88
Transportation 10.62

*Daily average dogs 5.9
Forage for same 4.28
Wages, grooms, watchmen and stable-boys 68.50
Superintendent’s salary 116.65
Veterinary’s salary 20.97
Motor ambulance upkeep 12.71
Motor bicycle upkeep 2.38
Sundries 89.81
Actual Operating Expenses $436.92
Building Upkeep Account 8.43
$445.35

Entries: 11 horses, 13 mules, 102 donkeys.

Exits: 8 horses, 7 mules, 63 donkeys.

Outpatients treated: 45 horses, 68 mules, 122 don-
keys, 5 dogs, 4 cats. .

Other fondouks visited: 70, all native fondouks.

SUPERINTENDENT’S NOTES: 305 cases investi:
gated, 4,497 animals seen, 895 animals. treated, 55
animals transferred to Fondouk Americaln, 22 pack-
saddles (infected) destroyed. .

* The Police Dept. of the Ville Nouvelle promise
deﬁnitely the New Pound by July, 1937.

G. DELON, Superintendent

Sioux City Humane Society

A Band of Mercy Broadcast, written! by
Mrs. M. W. Baldwin, executive secretary of
the Humane Society, of Sioux City, Iowa,
and presented by Hopkins school pupils,
Newell Bradley and Donald Johnson, from
“radio station B-KIND,” entertained mem-
bers of the public welfare department of
the Woman’s Club of that city recently.

Mrs. Baldwin» is planning an extensive
speaking and radio campaign for Be Kind
to Animals Week. The Humane Society
work is kept before the public by fre-
quent articles in the local papers. A recent
pictorial feature showed two dogs at the
Society’s animal shelter. One weighed 100
pounds the other only 114 pounds.

In making your will, please remember
the American Humane Education Society
of Boston.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 81;

done, so far as we can learn, to see if this
stunning by electricity can be made practl—
cable.

It must be admitted by all the humane
societies that the problem is a much larger
one than faces the slaughtering places of
Europe. We kill here by tens of thousands
where there they kill by hundreds. We deal
here largely with animals raised on ranges
and wide open spaces. There the cattle,
sheep and swine are practically domesti-
cated, used to being led or driven.

What can be done? Who can do it?
Humaner methods can be found if the will
to ﬁnd them undertakes the task. And this
task is up to the Institute of American
Meat Packers, as we see it. That great
organization, composed of all the large
slaughtering establishments of the country,
surely must have money enough, and m—
ventive genius enough in its employ to ﬁnd
a way to reduce to a minimum the suffer-
ing that is involved in the killing of our
food animals. It may be we are wrong in
our conviction, but we are forced to believe
that it is the expense of the thing that
delays it; that the knowledge of the ﬁnan-
cial loss caused by operating in a far more
humane way is responsible for allowing the
old antiquated methods to prevail. Perhaps
nothing but a thoroughly aroused public
opinion will ultimately bring about the
change that some day must come.

Build an abattoir of glass in the heart of
any city and let the passing crowds look
upon what goes on within as the animals are
driven to their death and slaughtered, and
the public would demand the place be closed
and its scenes of horror and blood removed
from the eyes of the young, at least. Let
the vast public know that the meat they
want comes from the bodies of animals
painlessly put to death and we believe the
demand would increase by enough to meet
the additional cost involved. We shall never
be worthy of being called a civilized nation
till the reproach of this Great Cruelty can
no longer be charged against us.

A Doctor of the Old School

A prominent Bangor, Me., physician,
making a call just outside the city, swerved
his car to avoid hitting the body of a skunk,
lying in the middle of the road, says the
Boston Globe. Returning an hour later and
noticing the body undisturbed, the doctor
stopped his car and started to walk back
to remove the offensive object from the
road. “Better leave that feller be,” shouted
a near-by workman. “He’s been there
sound asleep for a couple of hours and not
a car’s touched him.” A well-aimed pebble
quickly convinced the doctor that there was
life in “the body” still, as without any
disturbance the skunk got up and walked
away.

The habits, sex, temperament, personality
and even occupation can invariably be
deduced from the study of a person’s dog.

HELEN TREVELYAN

There is more truth in these words than

appears at first sight.

In making your will, please remember
the Massachusetts Society for the Preven-
tion of Cruelty to Animals.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

June, 1937'

Busy Beavers of Banff

W. J. BANKS

OME ﬁfteen years
8 ago there were just

two beavers in the
whole area of Banff Na—
tional Park in the Rocky
Mountains. These were a
captive pair, and when
their cage was found
empty one day, ofﬁcials
suspected foul play. But
a happier solution of the
mystery developed. Soon,
a few miles from the town
of Banff, a beaver lodge
and dam suddenly took
shape. And now, every
back-water and tributary
of the Bow River for dis-
tances of twenty miles and
more has its popular
beaver colonies. Under
government protection, the
industrious furred folk
have staged a real come—

back over extensive re- THIS BEAVER OVERCAME HIS NATURAL SHYNESS

 

gions where ruthless trap- IN THE FRIENDLY ATMOSPHERE OF A NATIONAL

pers spread desolation a

PARK RESERVE

 

generation and more ago. ,

But in the Banff region, the increasing
beaver population has created somewhat of
a problem for the authorities. By con-
structing dams across near-by streams they
have ﬂooded large areas, sometimes putting
even sections of the highways under water.
Spreading into Forty-Mile Creek, they have
caused pollution in Banif’s vaunted water
supply. As fast as low—lying park areas
have been drained, as a measure of mosquito
control, Brother Beaver and his family have
reﬂooded them. They have even invaded
the town limits, threatening dangerous
inundations at high water season, and cut-
ting down trees on the residents’ lawns.
Nothing so simple as wire netting several
feet high around the trees will stop the
beaver, who quickly builds platforms of mud
and branches to reach above them.

In spite of these annoyances, however, a
benevolent parks bureau has no intention of
harming the culprits. The cruel steel-trap
is not being resorted to. Instead, special
cage traps have been designed, in which the
wily ones may be caught without injury.
No doubt places will be found, far from
human settlement, where the beaver families
may be released. There they can build dams
to their hearts’ content, without damage to
anyone.

The Jack London Club is a humane society
with no ofﬁcers and no dues. It was started
in the ofﬁces of the Massachusetts S. P. C.
A., 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, prima—
rily, because of Jack London’s disclosures of
the cruelties behind the trick animal per-
formances in our theaters and other places.
It has grown rapidly in numbers and inﬂu-
ence. More than 683,000 persons have be-
come members of it. To join. this Club all
you have to do is to agree to do the one
thing that London says will ﬁnally banish
these performances from the stage, viz., get
up and go out of the theater during that
part of the program. Will you do it?

Beef

JUDY VAN DER VEER

These beasts were born in the high hill
pastures
Two springs ago;
And hidden away in brushy canyons
Where lilacs grow.

These were like little wild fawns . . . they
knew
To lie still
Hidden and waiting for mothers to come
Down from the hill.

These eyes were wondering eyes, ears were
like petals
Of a big flower;
And legs were scarcely a bit of use
The ﬁrst strange hour.

They grew strong as all hill children grow;
It was joy to run

Over the summer hills and to rest
Hidden away from the sun.

They felt the ﬁre of the brand'ng iron,
But were freed again;

And they grazed across the grassy hills,
Forgetting men.

They came to drink at the water hole
When they- were dry.

The water mirrored them standing there
Part of the sky.

Part of the sky they are and part of the
hills,
Clean with the wind and rain;
(Still there are pressed down beds of grass
Where they have lain.)

There they had slept long nights
Close to the hill-top stars . . .

At dawn today I saw them
Loaded into the cars.

 

 




 

 

\l

U. S.Trade MarkRegistered \

1 ANGEU— m 1868.AND FOR FOR‘nLONE
o. -

The Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

The American Humane Education Society

The American Band of Mercy

I would not enter on my list of friends,

Though graced with polished manners and ﬁne sense,

Yet wanting sensibility, the man
Who needlessly sets foot upon a worm.

——COWPER

111,537.,

     

GLORY TO
GOD,
PEACE on EARTH,
Kmouass, JUSTICE
AND Msacv TO
EVERY LIVING
CREATURE.

   
       
   

Entered assecond-class .matter, June 29, 1917, at the Post Oﬂice at Norwood, Mass., under the Act of March 8, 1879
Acceptance for mailing at speclal rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 3, 1917, authorized, July 18, 1919

Boston Oﬂice, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

‘VoL 70

A Bill is before the British Parliament
to provide for the abolition of Vivisection
upon dogs. It has had a ﬁrst reading.

For every 59 men under arms in 1913,
there are no fewer than 76 now. So reports
the League of Nations.

Fontenelle was said by one of his friends
to have been blessed with two brains and
no heart.

A certain Thomas Aurelio of New York
City was ﬁned $50 by the judge and his
license taken away for six months for hit-
ting a dog with his car and h'urrying away
from the accident. Convictions for such in-
difference to what an animal may be suf-
fering are growing constantly more com-
mon. .

Congratulations to the Massachusetts
Audubon Society for securing the convic-
tion and ﬁning of a man who shot and killed
a bald eagle near Gloucester, this state. The
Bulletin. of the Society says: “It is lament-
ably true that this bird is being rapidly
reduced in numbers through ignorance and
public apathy.” The bald eagle is pro-
tected by law in Massachusetts.

‘0

,On the authority of the British Field
Sports Society, the Animals’ Friend, Lon-
don, England, tells us that it costs the fox
hunters of England nearly $500 to kill a
fox and that between “December, 1936, and
October, 1937, some $60,000,000 will be
spent in hunting and approximately 15,000
foxes killed.” Our hunting record is bad
enough in the United States, so that we
hesitate to criticize our English neighbors,
but we have no such stories to tell here in
which the fox is the pitiable Victim. In
many sections fox hunting with dogs and
horses is forbidden by law.

February,l937

In Which Class Are We?

HERE are people always ready to af-

ﬁrm their love for children—but it’s
their children, not all children. So there
are people who are fond of animals, but it’s
their animals, not all animals. Or the ani—
mals they are fond of must be ﬁne animals,
well—bred, clean, handsome creatures. The
lonely, half-starved, diseased alley cat, the

rough looking, unattractive, ill—tempered, dog.

—these—well, to the real lover of animals
these also have a place in his affection and
regard.

Mr. Arthur Hedley in The Animals’ De—
fender, writing of “Dickens and His Dogs,”
calls attention to this difference of which
we have spoken. We gladly quote from
his article:

We love Charles Dickens, because he
showed the same kindly and tender feelings
to a plain ugly creature as he did to his
own majestic St. Bernard dogs.

This is beautifully illustrated in the story
of “Dombey and Son.” When the beautiful
Florence lost her beloved brother Paul, she
felt sad and lonely because she knew her
father had no affection for her. She was
conscious that she was an unwanted child,
and that her father couldn’t bear her in his
presence. In her sorrow she found consola-
tion in the companionship of “Diogenes,” a
dog who had nothing attractive in his per-
sonal appearance. He “was as ridiculous a
dog as one could meet with on a summer’s
day; a blundering, ill—favored, clumsy bullet-
headed dog with hair all over his eyes, and
a comic nose, and an inconsistent tail, and
a gruff voice.” Yet this same ugly Diogenes,
because of his devotion, was dearer to Flor-
ence than the most valuable and beautiful
of his kind. Nothing is more touching and
beautiful in all literature than the story of
Diogenes’ friendship and devotion to his
mistress during her long years of loneliness
and sorrow. .

The famous novelist couldn’t bear to see

PQO.2

any animal suffer, and he could enter into
their feelings with an understanding sym-
pathy. The more a creature was despised
and neglected the more he was drawn
toward it.

Blame the Parents, Not
the Children

During the last few weeks of 1936, in
Massachusetts, three deaths occurred from
guns in the hands of small children. In
one case a grandfather was Visiting his son
and daughter when a small lad came into
the room with the gun of his father; the
gun went off and the grandfather was in—
stantly killed. In the other two cases two
small lads killed two of their playmates.

Parents who keep weapons where they
can be found by children or who make pres-
ents of deadly weapons to their children-—
they, and not the children, must take the
blame. In the ﬁrst eleven months of 1936
one person collected clippings from a lim-
ited number of papers of 39 deaths from
guns in the hands of children 15 years of
age or younger.

In spite of all this, public opinion is
growing rapidly against making it possible
for children to have guns and even the
opposition to toy guns as gifts is increas—
ing. For example, the police department
of New York, accustomed in the past to
distributing a certain number of toy guns
at Christmas, has abandoned the practice,
the Deputy Police Commissioner having
said, “I am in sympathy with the campaign
to eliminate this type of toy, and we are
more than glad to take an active part in
this campaign to eliminate dangerous weap-
ons as playthings.”

The annual prize poster contest of the
Massachusetts S. P. C. A., open to schools
in Massachusetts, closes March 20, 1937.
Write to 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, for
particulars.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

Page 36

Ram
JUDY VAN DER VEER

Rain is a silver broom,
Sweeping the brown
Off the hills, brushing
Gray webs down;

Leaving curved hills
Gold and green;

Tinted with grass
Newly clean;

Sweetening meadows
For cows and sheep.
Beds should be fresh
Where lambs may sleep!

From a Famous Trainer

HE ﬁrst rule a trainer should write

down in his mind is that there is no
such thing as a TAMED wild animal, writes
Maria Rasputin in Every Week Magazine.
You can train them, but not tame them.
Most of us have to get badly hurt before
we realize this. I did.

It happened one evening during a per-
formance in London. I was becoming fa—
miliar with the act and I was growing fond
of the huge, striped Sumatra tigers and I
suppose I was not insensitive to the fact
that the appearance of Rasputin’s daughter
made the act a sensation. in the British
capital. Anyhow, I was thinking too much
about the crowd and trusting the animals
too much—any is too much. In the midst of
a leap from one pedestal to another,

“Emir,” a giant bundle of deceit, slashed”

out at me and caught me napping. I had
not stepped aside enough to be out of his
reach and his claws ripped myscalp.

I ﬁnished the act and walked bleeding
from the arena to a tumult of applause.
Inwardly I was ashamed. I had been a little
fool. I had forgotten the ﬁrst lesson in the
circus ﬁrst-reader.

Unfortunately, perhaps, for me I had not
been injured seriously enough, so it re—
mained not for a lion or a tiger or even a
leopard, but a bear to initiate me into the
perils of circus stardom in the United
States.

 

 

 

HE Jack London Club, named for

the late author, is composed of
members who pay no dues but simply
pledge themselves to leave a theater
or any place where trained animals
are compelled to perform unnatural
acts. All one has to do to belong to
this club is to agree to this. It is
hoped all members before purchasing
tickets at any theater or place of
amusement where performing animals
are ever exhibited, Will ask if any
such features are on the program, re-
fusing to purchase tickets if the an-
swer is in the affirmative. When
leaving any place because of any ani-
mal performance, always let the man-
agement know why you are leaving or
going out during that part of the per-
formance. Send your name for enrol-
ment to Our Dumb Animals.

 

 

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

“None So Blind—”l

From the New Book ‘y‘Laugh, Clown, Laugh!”
by Helen Trevelyan

' T present animal lovers fall roughly

into these three categories: the fa—
natics, who do endless, if all unwitting, dam—
age; the sentimentalists, who are all gush
and fuss and futility and entirely useless;
and the squeamish, who cry: “Oh, I know,
it’s all too, too terrible—please don’t tell me
about it, who, to my mind, are contempt-
ible cowards.

The ﬁrst step, then, lies in achieving a
balance between apathy and unfortunate
sensationalism, and this cannot be achieved
while animal lovers inspire only pity, sar-
casm, amusement and scorn. The whole
question must be placed upon a common
sense basis, without loss of temper or de—

spair '(two ever-ready pitfalls, I know!) , by .

which alone we can bring about the sane,
the sound, the logical appreciation of ani-
mals, not as gods to be worshipped and
pampered and therefore made wretched, nor
yet as slaves, dumb brutes knowing no dif-
ference between a. kick and a caress, but as
co-dwellers of the earth, having feelings
and rights of their own.

The second step lies, I feel, in meeting
opposition fairly and squarely, even invit—
ing it and answering it!

Personally, I welcome opposition; for un-
doubtedly, pleasant as support may be, I
never feel that to address by word or pen
those who already agree with you can! ever
do the same good as to tackle those who
frankly disagree. For while the one does
(one hopes) retain old supporters, the lat-
ter invariably means winning new ones,
which is so vital to this sadly misunder—
stood movement. The truth being that few
can resist an argument, and there are no
two sides to this question!

Taking a few of the predominant argu—
ments against Animal Welfare work and
answering them, I hope convincingly and
not too ponderously, the inevitable query
always is: “But why waste (and it is al—
ways “Why waste,” I notice; never “Why
devote,” or “Why spend,” but “Why
waste”) all this time on animals when
there is so much unemployment and every—
one’s mind is ﬁlled with thoughts of war——
why not concentrate all one’s efforts on
helping humanity?” Well, while my answer
is often tempted to be “Humanity’s suffer-
ings are so essentially humanity’s fault,
the outcome of its weakness, shortsighted-

 

 

Mar. 1937

ness, stupidity, injustice and endless human
failings, while animals never have done and
never can do any real wrong, that therefore
I feel more inclined to leave humanity to
solve its own problems, “that nevertheless is
not the real answer. The real answer is,
this:

There will always be war, there will
always be unemployment, until each and
everyone has learnt to appreciate the true
value of life; until the strong are ready
and willing to use their strength in help-
ing the weak, instead of dominating and
suppressing them; until—most important of

all—Power no longer stands for all that ’

which is grasping and greedy, but knows
compassion for the powerless; and animals,
being so entirely at our mercy, it is through

'them' ﬁrst that this harmonious state of .

affairs can] be brought about. For he who
has the care of the defenseless at heart is
incapable of hurting any living thing. It
is not pretty fancy, but sound fact, that you
can judge a person’s character more accur—
ately by his treatment of animals than by

any other means, , _/

This Month’s Frontispiece

Our frontispiece this month, used by
courtesy of the Louisville Courier—Journal,
shoWs “Ballot,” 33, believed to be the oldest
living thoroughbred horse, and his birth—
day cake, at a banquet given in his honor
on. New Year’s Day, in Lexington, Ken-
tucky. Ballot is reported not to have cared
especially for the cake, elaborate as it was,
but to have been partial to the green and
white ﬂoral blanket that was thrown across
him in the presence of hundreds of horse
lovers who came at the invitation of his
owners, the Enza-Vita 'Company. An: elo—
quent tribute was paid to the famous racing
horse by Col. George Bain.

Be not deluded by advertisements which
disguise cruelty under the . headlines of
amusement; as, for example, trained ani-
mal performances! In the business code
of the show manager there’s no such word
as CRUELTY.

When a goldfish in the home of Mrs.
Floyd DeLano, Jackson, Michigan, jumped
out of its bowl, the meowing of “Fluffy,” a
Persian cat, brought the owner to the res—
The ﬁsh revived when replaced in the

cue.
bowl.

 

NO DISARMAMENT FOR THE ARMADILLO WITH HIS STRONG BONY PLATES

\

\\.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 198

The Facts About Dog
Racing

OVERNOR LEHMAN of New York

not only vetoed the bill that would make
dog racing legal in that state but gave
orders that the present laws against betting
should be strictly enforced, with the result
that the death knell of the so-called “sport”
has been sounded in the Empire State.

The California legislature passed a bill
to legalize dog racing, although it has been
carried on there rather freely in deﬁance
of the law. The San Francisco S. P. C. A.,
as related in these columns two years ago,
succeeded in convicting several persons for
cruelty in connection with dog racing, which
they call “Racketeering under the Guise of
Sport.” The assistant secretary of that asso-
ciation, Mr. Charles W. Friedrichs, has a
telling article in Our Animals, the monthly
publication of our San Francisco Society,
from which we quote interesting facts about
dog racing. He says:

As the Sacramento Bee for May 15 says:
“It is signiﬁcant that dog racing originated
with the Al Capone gang in a suburb of
Chicago. And it continues to bear indubi-
tably the brand of its origin. If it is ever to
be legalized in California the question
should be submitted to the vote of the
people. It should not be foisted on them by
a legislature all too willing to do the bid-
ding of the big—time gamblers.”

It is argued by the gamblers that if horse
racing is legal, dog racing should also be
legalized. There are many ways in which
it can be shown that horse racing and dog
racing are not alike. One signiﬁcant fact

stands out from a socially commercial
standpoint. Horse races are held in the
daytime. It costs quite a little for the

average person just to get inside, get a
program and get seated. This before there
is actually any betting done. Most people
who cannot afford to bet are working while
the horse races are being run. The sport
is patronized by more or less of a leisure
class of people to whom the loss of a few
dollars in an afternoon may not mean a
great deal. Dog racing, on the other hand,
is done mostly at night. The cost of gaining
admission is practically nothing, the gate
receipts being widely advertised as being
for the sake of “sweet charity.” It’s the
money that Will be laid in wagers that the
racketeer trackman thrives on, at the cost
of the merchants and business men of the
communities where the tracks are located.

From a humane standpoint dog racing is
extremely objectionable. In the ﬁrst place

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

there is the cruel method of training that
is employed by the owners and trainers of
racing dogs, where live cats and rabbits are
used. These poor animals are taken in
crates and boxes to some ﬂat piece of ground
that is preferably isolated. Then, while one
of the trainers (we almost called him a
man!) holds the dogs on lead, the other
releases one of the luckless rabbits or cats.
Immediately the dogs are also released.
They may number from two to ten and,
after a chase that is generally a matter of
seconds, the poor bunny or kitty is caught
and torn to pieces. Before humane societies
stepped in and were able to have a law
passed to prevent it, an even more bar-
baric method of training was employed.
Live white rabbits were sewed by their
skins to training machines at training
tracks and sent around the track just as
the stuffed white rabbit is propelled at the
public tracks, with this difference: at the
public tracks the dogs always lose the
stuffed rabbit, but at the training tracks
the machine was always slowed down at the
end and the hounds were allowed to tear
the helpless rabbit to pieces. Nice people,
these dog trainers!

While there may be isolated cases where
there is real affection between a greyhound
owner or trainer and some one dog, the
animals are, almost without exception, re—
garded as racing machines, and nothing
more.

Leland Bickford, chief of the newscast
department of the Yankee Radio Network,

says: “It’s the most suffocating racket in _

the country today. It is gangster—controlled,
and in the hands of mobsters. It wrings
$100,000 a night out of Boston alone . . .”
According to Bob Considine, Universal Ser-
vice correspondent for the San Francisco
Examiner, Bickford’s work in tracing the

. background of dog racing has been so pene-

trating that for a while he was guarded by
G—men!

Cockfighting in England
and France

The French ofﬁcial organization for en-
couraging tourists is quoted as publishing in
its weekly bulletin an account of a cock-
ﬁght in Calais and advertising such an
exhibition of barbarism as a possible attrac-
tion to tourists.

The Royal S. P. C. A., London, believes

that since its offered reward of £500 for_

evidence leading to a conviction, no cock-
ﬁghting has taken place in England. The
reward now for such evidence is £100.

 

by it.

 

TO OUR FRIENDS

In making your will, kindly bear in mind that the corporate title of our Society is
“The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals”; that it is the
second incorporated (March, 1868) Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals
in the country, and that it has no connection with any other similar Society.

Any bequest especially intended for the beneﬁt of the Angell Memorial Animal
Hospital should, nevertheless, be made to The Massachusetts Society for the Preven-
tion of Cruelty to Animals “for the use of the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital,” as
the Hospital is not incorporated but is the property of that Society and is conducted

FORM OF BEQUEST
I give to The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (or
to the American Humane Education Society), the sum of ....................
dollars (or, if other property, describe the property). ‘

 

 

Aug. 1937
Our Work Worth While

[IN a very appreciative editorial entitled
“An Organization Worth While,” the
Herald-News of Fall River pays tribute to
the work of the Massachusetts S. P. C. A

“The fact that more than 20,000 small
animals were humanely disposed of illus-
trates best the great need of such a state
protective organization.

“It is surprising the number of household
pets left to their fate for one reason or
another. Many are found so badly injured
or in such dire straits from long sickness
abuse and neglect, they have to be de:
stroyed. Society agents are ever on the
alert, picking up and caring for dogs and
cats that are allowed to run wild, shift for
themselves and few humans caring whether
they live or die. '

“A redeeming phase of such a situation
from a humanitarian standpoint is the
large number of pets given treatment in the
Soc1ety’s hospitals and relief stations. Many
owners of animals depend on the Society’s
ass1stance to furnish needed relief, and in
many instances the owners show their ap-
preciation in a substantial way.

“The organization for many years has
proved its worth as a real friend of the
little dumb creatures. In our own commu-
nity. we are acquainted with the splendid
serv1ce performed and what is accomplished
here is true of every branch of this well

conducted organization throughout the
state.” I

“The Prophet” (Mahomet)
Said:

.A man traveling on the road was dying
with thirst. He found a well, descended
into it, drank and came out. Then he saw
a dog hanging out its tongue and scratch-
ing earth to ﬁnd water. “This dog,” said
the .man, “is as thirsty as I was.” So he
again went down into the well, ﬁlled his
shoe with water and gave it to the dog.
God praised the man for his act and made
him remission of his sins.”

“The pupils asked: “0 Prophet! Will
we be rewarded for caring for and being
good to animals?” “Most certainly,” said
the Prophet, “for all good things done to
all living creatures.”

Extract from the “Hadiths.”

 

 

Our Dumb Animals

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
galssachusetts. Boston Ofﬁce: 180 Longwood Av-

e.

Address all communications to Boston.

TERMS

One dollar per year. Postage free to any part of

the world.
All dollar subscriptions sent direct to the oﬂice en-

title the sender to membership in either of our two
Someties.

RATES OF MEMBERSHIP IN

THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
OR THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.

Associate Life 50 00 Active Annual $10 00

Sustaining 20 00 Associate Annual 5 00

Active Life $100 00 Annual 1 00
Children’s $0.75

Checks and other payments may be sent to ALBERT
A. POLLARD, Treasurer, 180 Longwood Avenue,
Boston.

Manuscripts should be addressed to the Editor. 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston.

 

 

 

 

 




 

- 'L:- \ ii»? i ‘3

 

GEO-

u u. s,Trade Mark. Registered L

1 ANGELL m 1868.AND FOR FOR”.

The Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

The American Humane 'Education. Society

The American Band of Mercy

I would not enter on my list of friends,

Though graced with polished manners and ﬁne sense,

Yet wanting sensibility, the man
Who needlessly sets foot upon a worm.
—COWPER

AND MERCY 1‘0‘
EVERY lema
CREATURE.

 

Entered as second-class matter, June 29, 1917, at the Post Ofﬁce at Norwood, Mass., under the Act of March 3, 1879
Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 3, 1917, authorized, July 13, 1919

Boston Oﬂ‘ice, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

Vol. 70

Coming again: Be Kind to Animals
Week, April 12-17, and Humane Sunday,
April 11.

One hundred and ten horses in Ger-
many that had served in the war have
been awarded Iron Crosses, we are told by
Progress Today.

A humane society has been organized
in Canada for the special purpose of pro-
tecting fur-bearing animals from the lin-
gering death of the steel trap.

‘0

We are glad to learn that the celebrated
actor, George Arliss, is president of the
Humane Education Society whose head-
quarters are at Manchester, England.

On the ground that hundreds of toy pis-
tols have been used in the commission of
crime a bill has been introduced in the
Massachusetts Legislature making the sale
of such guns illegal.

A similar bill has been introduced in
the Georgia. Legislature by our representa—
tive in Atlanta to prohibit the sale or gift
of toy pistols or guns to children under 16
years of age.

Word comes to us of the growing in-
terest in humane work in Sofia, Bulgaria.
School children are entering prize essay
contests and distributing Golden Rule leaf-
lets among farmers and other owners of
horses. Even the press is willing to print
the prize—winning essays.

All real horse lovers will agree with
Lieut.—Col. R. S. Timmis when he says in
Animal Life in an article on Horse Shows:
“The present fanatical craze amongst
American saddle—horse people is in favor
of the set-up tail—~a most hideous and
ridiculous style. The result is that they are
now breeding for head and tail, to the
detriment of the body.”

March, 1937
Man and the Horse

HE eye for a horse, the love for a

horse, is as old as man himself and is
a part of the inheritance with which multi-
tudes are born. There are those who take
as naturally to a horse as to their mother’s
milk. They have no remembrance of the
day when to be with a horse, to smooth his
glossy neck, to ride him and drive him was
not one of the rarest pleasures of life. It
would be no hardship for such men to live
for days alone with an intelligent horse,
gentle, responsive to its owner’s will. It is
because of this love for the horse, a part
of the very nature of so many men, that the
horse persists, and always will persist, no
matter how many means of transportation
may be- invented which seem to threaten
his future.

To multitudes of others, however, the
horse is only a means to an end. They feel
toward him as a man might feel toward an
engine or an automobile. As long as he de—
livers them or their goods at the goal
desired he fulﬁlls his function. Love for
him, craving for his companionship and
conﬁdence, the joy of dealing with him in
justice and kindness,—these are things they
never know, any more than the man with
no ear for music knows the delight he ex-
periences who listens to a Beethoven Sonata.

What form of life lower than our own
has served humanity as the horse has
served it? He has played bravely his part
on a thousand ﬁelds of battle, facing war’s
appalling horror, and moved to his task by
no hope of its glory. He has helped build
the world’s greatest cities, their temples,
their palaces, their libraries, their univer-
sities. He has made possible a million har-
vests. He has toiled on the railways of the
nations. He has been a partner in the rear-
ing of our homes. He has been our swift
messenger in joy and sorrow. He has car—
ried us through many happy hours of
recreation. He has stood ready to die in our
service when we have asked it.

No. 3

Well may the great Homer have sung of
the horses famous at the siege of Troy!
Well may Alexander have founded a city
in honor of the charger which bore him
safely from the perilous ﬁeld! Well may
Cimon have reared beside his own an en-
during monument for the ﬂeet—footed mares
which won him the chariot races at the
Olympian games! Well may nations, as
Japan has done, build monuments to the
memory of the horses which have fallen in
their wars!

“The International Journal
for Animal Protection”

We heartily endorse the following from
The Animal’s Friend. We could not say it
better:

The third number of the International
Journal contains a number of interesting
articles and news from many lands. Like
its predecessors this issue is beautifully pro-
duced with many illustrations and on the
cover is a charming reproduction in color
of “A Common Sight in the Kruger Nation-
al Park.”

We regret to learn from the editorial and
from an inset headed Important Notice to
Subscribers and others interested that the
journal, which has met with a gratifying
response in the humane press of the world,
is likely to be discontinued unless (a) all
1936 subscriptions are renewed for 1937
and (b) there is a substantial increase in
the subscriptions. We hope these conditions
will be fulﬁlled and the continuance of the
journal ensured. The annual subscription
is 1s. 6d. only, for the two issues, including
postage. The publishing ofﬁce is 19 Melville
Street, Edinburgh.

The widest ranging animals on the
North American continent are the musk-
rat and the raccoon, each being found in
forty-seven states. The former is not
found in Florida, and the latter shuns
Montana.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

July, 1937

Gala Day at Springfield

EDNESDAY, June 9, brought hun-

dreds of club members, society people
and other guests to “Meadowview,” the
beautiful estate of Mrs. Ida Young Denault
in Longmeadow, generously placed at the
disposal of the Springﬁeld Branch of the
Women’s Auxiliary of the Massachusetts S.
P. C. A. for the annual June Day.

The festivities opened at 1:80 with a
dessert bridge of 150 tables. This was fol-
lowed by songs by Cecil Beattie, lyric so-
prano soloist of Boston and Los Angeles.
At 4 a fashion show was presented by
Charles, Inc., with professional models from
New York. Other features included tables
with cake and punch, two fortune tellers in
an Arabian tent, and the sale of the Aux-
iliary’s new cook book, “Our Pet Recipes.”

In the evening there was a cafeteria sup—
per from 7 to 8, with tables on the upper
terrace. General dancing followed on the
large south porch, also on a platform on the
lawn. The spacious grounds were ﬂoodlight-
ed, with colored revolving lights adding to
the scenic effect. At intervals throughout
the day and evening music from the pipe
organ at Mrs. Denault’s home was ampli-
ﬁed and heard on the lawns and terraces.

Great credit for the marked success of
the affair is due to Mrs. Donald C. Kibbe,
president, and to her efﬁcient committee
including the following chairmen: Ways
and means, acting as general chairman,
Mrs. M. F. Peterson, with Mrs. Walter W.
Peacock as co-chairman; card party, Mrs.
Walter J. DuBon, with Mrs. Stuart M.
Robson, co—chairman; luncheon, Mrs. Donald
McAllister; fashion show, Mrs. Harold S.
Treworgy; sales of cookbook, Mrs. Harold
D. Stickney, assisted by Mrs. Charles A.
Nash; cafeteria supper, Mrs. Paul Freder-
ick Moore and (junior) Miss Betty Has-
brouck; cigarets and candy, Mrs. A. Mayo
Fisk; music, Mrs. Grace F. Whitney; cake
table, Mrs. J. Frederick Carman, Jr.; felt
novelties, Miss Ruth Schauweker; special
features, Mrs. W. A. Sidd.

 

“PATRICIA” WELCOMES HER LOST KITTEN

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

The Kitten Came Back

J.D. FEATHERSTONHAUGH

ATRICIA” has learned that even a
burly truck-driver may have a kind
heart.

Patricia, a stray cat who was adopted by
the writer, recently gave birth to three
kittens in the back compartment of a mov-
ing van that had been laid up for repairs in
the back yard. The following day she de-
cided that March weather in Schenectady
was a bit too cold for her youngsters and
one by one she started moving them to an
empty carton she had found in the cellar of
the house. The ﬁrst two were moved with-
out difﬁculty, but when the cat returned for
the third the truck was gone, the driver
having completed his repairs and driven
away.

Patricia was puzzled. She searched every
nook and cranny of the yard for her lost
kitten and then with plaintive meows ex—
tended her search over the entire neighbor-
hood. Only when night fell did she return
home; without her kitten.

The next day Hank Bartlett, the driver,
returned to the house.

“Is there a cat in here that has just had
kittens?” he asked.

“Why yes,” I replied. “Our cat has just
had two of them.”

“I think she must have had three,” he
added.

“How is that?” I asked, puzzled.

Then he explained that the preceding day
after he had driven the truck home he had
heard whimpering cries. Looking into the
back of the truck he had found the little
animal, shivering and hungry.

“I took it into my house,” he said, “and
fed it a little warm milk with a medicine
dropper. We couldn’t ﬁgure out where it
came from, but then I remembered seeing a
cat jump in the truck while it was over at
your place. So after putting it in a warm
place for the night I brought it back.”

He then produced the kitten from a little
basket he carried in his
hand. Together we took it
to the little box in the
cellar where a worried
mother guarded her re-
maining two. Patricia
h e a r d o u r footsteps,
looked out of the box to
see her lost kitten. Rejoic-
ing at its return, she gave
her most welcoming meow
and when the kitten was
placed in the box started
licking it affectionately.

“Faithful unto death”
was a mother elk of upper
Naches, Washington, says
the Northport News of
that state. A month ago
her calf was killed by a
logging truck and since
then- she had not moved
from the spot where her
baby was knocked down.
Beside the road she died
from a broken heart, au-
thorities said, as she had
ample food supplied her
during her long vigil.

Page 107

When Your Cat is Lost

LESTER BANKS

HE popular assumption that all cats

are alike in the homing instinct has
caused the loss of many feline pets. The
ﬁrst thing you hear, when your cat is miss-
ing, is “Oh, it’ll come back, you can’t lose a
cat,” and usually the speaker goes on to tell
several instances of cats’ remarkable returns
after they had been given up as lost.

Cats do, ordinarily, have a wonderful
ability to “come back,” but we hear prin-
cipally of those who do ; many do not return.
Unless one knows the circumstances of the
disappearance, one cannot say that the cat
was sub-normal in the homing instinct, or
in love of home; because there are too many
other possible occurrences to prevent the
return.

As matters stand today, in spite of the
public’s belief, drivers from the city pound
are not picking up many cats. Those you
see there, many of them, have been sent by
persons who could not or would not provide
for them. Often, too, strays are caught and
sent in by humane persons who dislike to see
the creatures suﬁer.

Automobiles kill many, especially at night
—on account of the confusing headlights.
Dogs account for some others. Beware of
thieves! There are two kinds of these—the
thief who really admires and takes the cat
for his own, and, secondly, those (often two
or three roughneck boys) who keep the
animal until you offer a reward, then return
it as a “found” cat.

But cats do get lost. Under any kind of
excitement, puss may run an unusual dis-
tance from her home, then ﬁnd, when she
looks about her, that everything is strange.
Then more excitement, further distance——
another lost cat.

The cat that has always been kept in is
much more easily lost than most people be-
lieve. And the pampered pet cannot stand
“roughing it” as the typical “alley cat” can
—that is only natural, the eﬁect of former
habits of life.

I’ve lost two splendid Persian cats, one a
pet that money couldn’t have bought, and I’ll
always condemn myself for not starting re-
covery efforts earlier than I did. I did what
I am now urging other cat owners not to do:
I believed what others told me about the
certainty of the cat’s return.

First, don’t take chances, especially at
night. But if you do, and the cat fails to
show up, don’t delay. Phone in a “Lost” ad.
for the earliest possible issue of your local
paper; describing the cat brieﬂy and the
time and place, as near as possible, of her
disappearance.

Next, enlist all the help you can get and
start a search. The cat may be anywhere——
in a basement, shut up by accident in a
garage, or perhaps injured. Tell of your
loss and make inquiries of your neighbors.

Of course, all efforts may fail, as did mine,
but the sooner you get on the job, and the
less you listen to stories of marvelous re-
turns, the better your chance to regain your

pet.

The gypsy moth was introduced into this
country as a possible substitute for the

silkworm moth.

 

 

 

 

 




 

' ‘meT-Wm

Oct. 1937

 

Founded by Geo. T. Angell. Incorporated March, 1868

DR. FRANCIS H. RO'WLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds
JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First
Boston Corporation
CHARLES G. BANCROH‘, Vice-President, United Shoe
Machinery Corporation
PHILIP STOCKTON, President, First National Bank of
Boston

Prosecuting Ofﬁcers in Boston
Telephone (Complaints, Ambulances) Longwood‘ 6100
L. WILLARD WALKER, Chief Officer
HARRY L. ALLEN DAVID A. BOLTON
HARVEY R. FULLER HOWARD WILLAND

County Prosecuting Ofﬁcers
HERMAN N. DEAN, Boston
Middlesex, Norfolk and Plymouth
FR- T. VICKERS, Lynn Eastern Essex
WILLIAM W. HASWELL, Methuen Western Essex
FRED F. HALL, Springfield
Hampden, Hampshire and Franklin
ROBERT L. DYSON, Worcester Worcester
CHARLES E. BROWN, Attleboro Bristol
HAROLD G. ANDREWS, Hyannis
Barnstable, Dukes and Nantucket
T. KING HASWELL, Pittsfield Berkshire

Rest Farm for Horses and Small Animal Shelter,
Methuen

W. W. HASWELL, Superintendent

Taunton Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.-—MRS.
HOWARD F. WOODWARD, Pres.; MRS. THOS. H. CAS-
WELL, Sec.

Northampton Branch of the Mass. S. P. C. A.—
MRS. EDITH WASHBURN CLARKE, Pres.; MRS. MAUDE
WEIR, Treas.

Women’s Auxiliary of the Mass. S. P. C. A., 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston—MRS. EDITH WASHBURN
CLARKE, Pres.; MRS. AGNES P. FISHER, Ch. Work
Com. First Tuesday.

Springﬁeld Branch Auxiliary—MRS. DONALD C.
KIBBE, Pres.; MRS. HERBERT F. PAYNE, Treas. Second
Thursday.

Winchester Branch Auxiliary—MRS. RICHARD S.
TAYLOR, Pres.; MISS BESSIE SMALL, Treas. Second
Thursday.

Fitchburg Branch, Am. Humane Education Soc.—
MR. FRANCIS KIELTY, Pres.; BRADLEY W. LEONARD,
Treas.

MONTHLY REPORT OF SOCIETY
AND BRANCHES

Miles traveled by humane ofﬁcers. . 18,945

Cases investigated ............... 440
Animals examined ............... 5,821
Animals placed in homes ......... 192
Lost animals restored to owners. . 55
Number of prosecutions .......... 7
Number of convictions ............ 7
Horses taken from work ........... 14
Horses humanely put to sleep. . . . 81

Small animals humanely put to sleep 2,691

Stock-yards and Abattoirs

Animals inspected ................ 71,906
Cattle, swine and sheep humanely
put to sleep .................... 9

The Massachusetts Society for the Pre-
vention Of Cruelty to Animals has been re-
membered in the will Of Alexander M. Clute
Of Roslindale.

September 14, 1937.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

ANGELL MEMORIAL ANIMAL
HOSPITAL

and Dispensary for Animals
184 Longwood Avenue Telephone, Longwood 6100

Veterinarians

. DAILEY, V.M.D., Chief of Staﬁ

. SCHNEIDER, V.M.D., Asst. Chief
SCHROEDER, D.V.M.

. SC‘HNELLE, V.M.D.

. MUNSON, V.M.D.

BLAKELY, V.M.D.

HARRY L. ALLEN, Superintendent

PSPPPF
rowgma

Springfield Branch

Telephone 4-7355
53-57 Bliss Street, Springﬁeld, Mass.

 

Veterinarians
H

A. R. EVANS, V.M.D. . L. SMEAD, D.V.M.

 

 

HOSPITAL REPORT FOR AUGUST
Including Springﬁeld Branch

Hospital Dispensary
Cases entered 952 Cases 2,811
Dogs 710 Dogs 2,302
Cats 225 Cats 445
”Birds 9 Birds 52
Horses 6 Horses 5
Goats 2 Coats 4

Monkeys 3

Operations 813
Hospital cases since Opening, Mar.

1, 1915 ............ ~ ......... 152,873
Dispensary cases ................ 375,395
Total ............ 528,268

The Month in the Springﬁeld Branch

Cases entered in Hospital . ....... 156
Cases entered in Dispensary ........ 566
Operations ........................ 153

Relief for Thirsty Horses

At the free watering stations in Boston
maintained by the Massachusetts S. P. C.
A. during the hot weather attendants re-
ported that the service was availed of
8,980 times. While the ﬁgures seem small
in comparison to former years it is still
apparent that the thirst and exhaustion Of
hundreds of animals were relieved many
times during a most trying season. The
service extended up to September 11.

In a letter written by Mary Taylor (the
Rose Yorke of “Shirley”) we ﬁnd this pas—
sage relating to Charlotte Bronte: “Char-
lotte was more than commonly tender in
her treatment Of all dumb creatures, and
they, with that ﬁne instinct so Often noticed,
were invariably attracted towards her.
. . . But not merely were her actions kind,
her words and tones were ever gentle and
caressing towards animals; and she quick—
ly noticed the least want of care or ten-
derness on the part Of others towards any
poor brute creature.”

Retired Workers’ Fund

We are receiving gifts to the American
Humane Education Society as a trust fund,
the interest to be used for the beneﬁt
of ﬁeld missionaries and others who have
spent their lives in promoting humane edu-
cation. Already several cases have come
to our attention and are being relieved in
this way. We will welcome your contribu-
tion to this fund.

Page 153
“Silver Tea” on Cape Cod

Raymond Moore’s Playhouse Gardens
Scene of Beneﬁt for Animal Shelter

AYMOND MOORE’S Playhouse Gar-

dens, at Dennis on Cape Cod, was the
scene Of a “silver tea,” given for the
beneﬁt of the Cape Cod animal shelter Of
the Massachusetts S. P. C. A. at Hyannis,
from 4 to 7 O’clock, Tuesday afternoon,
August 31.

In addition to the Opportunity of inspect-
ing the colorful ﬂower beds of these beauti-
ful gardens, the guests were entertained by
Miss Ruth Tingley of Braintree, who sang
a group Of selections accompanying her-
self on the piano accordion, and by pupils
of Miss Lisa Farham’s dancing school,
who presented aesthetic and interpretative
dances.

Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke, president
of the Women’s Auxiliary, was general
chairman, and was assisted by Mrs. Frank
E. Towne, Mrs. Arthur W. Hurlburt and
Mrs. John E. Dykeman, all of the Boston
Auxiliary, and by Harold G. Andrews, the
Society’s agent at Hyannis, and Fred T.
Vickers agent at Lynn.

Mrs. Carl Schultz, Mrs. John Hinckley
and Mrs. Gerard Besse served as hostesses.

Among the patronesses were Mrs. Mal—
colm Chase, West Yarmouth; Miss Jean
Hinkle, Osterville; Mrs. Margaret Free—
man, East Dennis; Miss Alice Freeman,
East Dennis; Mrs. Aaron Davis, Harwich—
port; Mrs. Herbert I. McLean, Falmouth;
Mrs. H. W. York, Osterville; Mrs. John E.
McKelvy, Hyannisport; Mrs. Horton Reed,
West Falmouth; Mrs. E. K. Davis, Mars-
tons Mills; Miss Margaret Payson, Dennis;
Mrs. William Lee, Harwichport; Mrs. Alex—
ander Smith, West Yarmouth; Mrs. Her-
bert Ford, Osterville; Mrs. Paul B. Dickey,
Hyannisport; and Mrs. Geo. H. Mead,
West Yarmouth.

Mr. Burgess to Lecture
Agaln

On next Humane Sunday, April 24, 1938,
at 3:30 P.M., Mr. Thornton W. Burgess, na-
tionally known naturalist and author, will
again present an illustrated lecture under
the auspices Of the Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals,
in the lecture hall of the Boston Public
Library, Copley Square. “Friends I’ve Met
in Fur and Feathers” will be the topic.
This lecture will be given in the afternoon
in order that children may attend. There
will be colored slides and moving pictures
of subjects which Mr. Burgess himself
photographed.

A roadside Sign in Normandy, France,
reads “Pasture your horse here. Short-
tailed horses six-pence a day, long-tailed
horses a shilling a day.” A local peasant,
asked to explain the distinction, replied: “A
short-tailed horse is bothered all the time by
ﬂies; to shake them Off he has to use his
head; and while doing that he can’t eat. A
long-tailed horse can handle the situation
with his tail Without raising his head
from the grass. The men of Normandy
would never pay as much for grazing a
short-tailed horse as a long-tailed one.”

Exchange

 

 

 

 

 




n

 

Mar. 1937

Birds Return
HARRY ELMORE HURD

Elsewhere, not here, my feet shall go—

Tomorrow and tomorrow’s morrow—

This amber, thrusting through blue snow

Once grew upon the edge of sorrow,

For here,

Last year,

I brought a whirring partridge down.

Something about this mottled brown

0f withered grass depresses me:

Here, forever, I shall see

Life crumpling, slantwise, to the ground:

Forever, I shall hear the rasping sound

Of gasping breath and see the dumb
surprise

Escaping from a wild bird’s eyes.

Here,

Last year,

This happened—then I did not know
That amber thrusting through blue snow
Would ﬁll my happy heart with sorrow,
So tomorrow, and tomorrow’s morrow,

I shall avoid this snowy hill,

So strangely vocal, deathly still.

Our Observatory
LILLIE ROONEY

A LITTLE song. sparrow has been the
means of providing me with a most
effective way of teaching my pupils to be
kind to birds.

Our school room has a small, deeply set
window upon which the screen became torn.
A pair of sparrows chose this place as a
building“ site, and both immediately began
to work on the nest. The window was left
closed, thus giving a splendid View of the
home’s construction. Not one straw of the
nest was disturbed by the pupils as they
eagerly Watched the progress of the work.

The birds became used to the little watch-
ers, and after the mother’s eggs were laid
she even allowed the window to be opened,

‘ and sat quietly during recitations.

The children saw and studied the speck-
led eggs, the queer little newly hatched
birds which seemed to be all mouths, and
listened to their hungry
chirpings until they
were old enough to sit
on top of the nest. We
then tried, unsuccess-
fully, to get a kodak
picture.

I think we were all
lonely when the mother
coaxed the little ones to
ﬂy away, and we were
agreeably surprised to
have her return the
second spring, to again
rear a brood for the
observation of a differ-
ent group of children.

“Be Kind to Animals”
should be written as a
motto on the black-
board in every school
room, especially from
April 12 to 17, 1937.

OUR

“TRAILS MADE BY BOB-WHITES WHEN GLEANING A
MEAL OF ACORN KERNELS WASTED BY THE RED—
HEADED WOODPECKERS”

DUMB ANIMALS

Page 39

Bob-White Neighbors

ALVIN M.

PETERSON

Photograph by the Author

OB-WHITE,” or “bob—bob—white,” is
B the song of the bob—white, or quail,

a charming bird song I often hear
coming from across the ﬁelds and pas-
tures. “He-er” is the call of this bird, and
when I hear it coming from scattered spots
in the neighborhood I know that a number
of these birds have become separated from
the main ﬂock and are trying to locate their
companions. Often, when out for a walk, I
hear other characteristic bob—white sounds,
explosive “whirrs,” that startle me. Each
“whirr” is made by a frightened bird that
bursts from the grass or brush near me
and goes hurtling off like a feathered bomb—
shell. ’

Although we have long lived in a region
where bob—whites are numerous, we never
had them for near winter neighbors until
ﬁve years ago. To be sure, we often saw
and heard them previous to that, but they
never made their home about the premises,
although an occasional pair nested near the
house. Our chubby bird neighbors moved
into the neighborhood early in the autumn
and lived near us all winter, their favorite
refuge and roosting-place being a large
brush pile in the pasture. They always ﬂew
to the brush pile when frightened from the
yard or grove, where they waited until the
coast was clear, then returned to their fa—
vorite foraging ground. Sometimes, when
working near the brush pile, or passing
that way, I frightened them from it, but
they generally returned to it as soon as I
was safely on my way again.

Bob-whites live on various foods: waste
grain, grass seeds, weed seeds, acorns, in—
sects and other things they ﬁnd. One winter
day a large ﬂock of sparrows was feeding
upon weed seeds in a small ﬁeld south of
the barn. I watched the birds for some time
and eventually noticed that the bob-whites
were hurrying toward them. Soon the two
ﬂocks joined, and the sparrows and quail

 

fed for a long time near one another, trav-
eling leisurely from one patch of weeds to
another. The bob-white is a famous weed—
seed destroyer, more than ﬁfty per cent of
its food consisting of weed seeds.

Bob-whites are fond of acorns. It was
great fun to watch them when they were
feeding upon the nuts. They raced from
the base of one oak to another, peeked vig—
orously at acorns, picked up tiny bits of
acorn kernels wasted by the squirrels and
red—headed woodpeckers, and seemed as
fond of the nuts as children of candy.

Bob-whites usually travel from place to
place on foot, sometimes walking but more
often running as fast as they can. If pos-
sible, they travel from bush to bush, tree to
tree, or from one thicket or patch of weeds
to another. They run rapidly and are on
their guard when. in the open, but are less
cautious when near shelter, walking slowly
and often cuddling down on the sunny side
for a rest and sun bath. They hold their
heads high but allow their tails to drag
when running; and they move their feet
surprisingly fast, so fast, I am tempted to
say, that all you see of them is a blur.
Although their steps are short, they get
over the ground at a good rate of speed.

I had three ways of keeping track of my
chubby bird neighbors that winter. Nat—
urally, in the ﬁrst place, I saw them almost
daily. Secondly, I often heard them calling
“he-er” to one another when separated,
exactly as if saying, “Here I am, where are
the rest of you?” At other times I neither
saw nor heard them, but knew where they
had wandered and what they had been
doing by the tracks they left in the snow.
One day, for example, I heard them calling,
and, upon. looking out through a south win—
dow, saw two near an oak near the barn.
Where were the rest and what were they
doing? Later, when I went outside, I found
the snow south of the barn covered with
tracks and thus learned that those I could
not see had been in the barnyard hunting
food. A day or two later, when on my way
to town, I learned that all of them had made
a leisurely journey to the oak grove for
acorns, seventeen trails in the 'snow telling
me the whole story.

When this ﬂock ﬁrst began living in? the
neighborhood, there were but thirteen of
them. Later one was killed by an automobile
in a near—by street. Then all at Once the
number increased to seventeen. Where did
the ﬁve additional birds come from and why
did they join the larger ﬂock? Did they
once belong to a ﬂock numbering eighteen
or twenty, and were the others killed by
hunters or wild animals. Perhaps the ﬁve
became so hopelessly separated from their
former companions that they lost all track
of them and joined those living near us.
Was there any quarreling when they joined
the larger ﬂock and how did they effect the
combination? To these, and many other
questions I should like to learn the answers.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

Page 38
The Horse Speaks

GIRALDA FORBES

My master’s very kind to me,
He gives good fodder too,

But there are several little things
I wish he wouldn’t do.

He sometimes hangs my nosebag so
It’s difficult to feed,

I never get quite all the grain,
It’s very hard indeed.

He brings my woolen blanket out
When winter comes with snow,

But doesn’t wrap it round about
To keep me warm below.

He lets it lie upon the shafts,
And so I feel the touch

0f every icy blast that blows,
I suffer very much

Because the wind gets underneath;
He doesn’t think, of course,

But if he would attend to this,
I’d be a happy horse.

In Two Inaugural Parades
A N N A M C N E I L

NE of the world’s oldest horses was
a center of interest in the inaugural
parade at Washington, January 20.

“Queen,” aged 41, was six years old when
she pranced up Pennsylvania Avenue at
President McKinley’s second inauguration
in 1901, with Edwin M. Jett, a mounted
policeman, on her back. Handsome and
proudly stepping, she was the cynosure of
all eyes.

It occurred to some of the present horse
fanciers in Washington that it would be in-
teresting to bring Queen and Mr. Jett, now
retired, together again for another historic
ride.

Queen was located on the farm where
she was born and raise-d at Four Corners,
Maryland. Mr. J ett, aged 68, in good health
and spry, lives at 1434 W. Street, S. E.

The aged horse was in her stable when
Mr. Jett, seeing her after a long lapse of
years, called softly through the door:
“Queen! Oh, girl! Remember me?” Queen
remembered. She neighed at the top of
her voice.

So again they rode under Washington’s
dripping skies and Queen’s fame will go
down as the only horse that ever took an

active part in the inauguration of two
Presidents.

 

A PATIENT IN DISPENSARY OF
ANGELL ANIMAL HOSPITAL

OUR DUMB

 

To My Dog

LEE L. FROST

OR many minute-s I have been sitting

here in my comfortable chair, looking
down at you as you lie humbly curled on
the ﬂoor at my feet. A moment ago as I
sat here gazing at you, a wave of self—
condemnation swept over me.

Is it enough that I feed you well, pro—
vide you with a warm place to sleep and
stay up with you at night when you are
sick? No—some instinct deep within me
whispers that I have failed miserably in my
obligations to you. I confess with shame
that having supplied you with the. material
things of dog—life, I have neglected you
thoughtlessly day by day.

I remember this morning when I let you
in the house how eagerly you bounded to-
ward me, but I—drowsy‘ and irritable—
brushed brusquely past you without a word
of friendly greeting. Then, when I left the
house after breakfast, you squeezed out the
door and followed me to the end of the walk,
hoping meekly that you would be allowed
to accompany me, but I strode on without
even a backward glance at you. At noon
when I came home, you were waiting for
me on the front porch and when you saw me
you rushed down the steps, your brown eyes
alight with the supreme joy of greeting me
and reared up on my clean clothes with
your muddy forepaws. And I, forgetting in
my anger that you could not possibly under-
stand the importance of clean clothes, cuffed
you sharply on the head—I can see yet the-
hurt look in your eyes and the sad droop of
your tail as you trotted submissively around
the house. Just this evening when you
walked proudly to me with my paper in your
mouth, I jerked it roughly from you and
scolded you because your teeth had torn a
slight place in the front page.

Now, after all this, you curl meekly at
my feet, satisﬁed and glad to be near me.
In your eyes I can do no wrong—I am the
Master; my commands are to be obeyed

ANIMALS

Mar. 1937

without question.

With a sudden lump in my throat, I lean
over and clasp your tired forepaw in my
hand; even though you can’t understand
as you look quizzically up at me, I’m asking
forgiveness and hoping fervently that you
have forgotten the many little hurts I have
so thoughtlessly caused you.

Tomorrow shall mark a new episode in
our relationship—I shall try to my best abil-
ity to understand you better; to become
more the pal than the master; and to View
your acts with the same indulgence with
which I expect my fellow—men to View mine.

The Crusade Against Guns

Some months ago, the P. T. A. announced
its intention of launching a nation-wide cru-
sade against guns and all missile-throwing
weapons in the hands of children, writes
Mabel Ketchum Eastman in the News,
Sausalito, California. A most laudable pur—
pose and one that should receive the sup—
port of everyone and particularly of the
Women’s Clubs. A body of women can do
anything and with this worth—while idea in
View they would be adding much to the hap-
piness and safety of themselves and the
world.

We should not be silent about this matter
but give it publicity. The way in which the
country is seeking to reduce automobile
accidents is not by silence but by talking
and writing about it constantly.

Arming children with guns is nothing
short of insanity. And it seems to me an
injustice to the child and a total disregard
of public safety when we neglect to report
to police headquarters at once, every child
with a gun one observes anywhere. Such
dangerous weapons should not be in the
hands of minors. There is a law against it.
So it is not asking too much of any police
department to enforce it.

More friends are needed to endow stalls
and new kennels in the Angell Memorial
Animal Hospital. Payments of thirty-ﬁve
dollars for a kennel or seventy-ﬁve dollars
for a stall will insure a suitable marker
inscribed with donor’s name. Terms of per-
manent endowment of free stalls and ken-
nels will be given 'upon application to the
Massachusetts Society for the Prevention
of Cruelty to Animals, Boston, Mass.

Societies’ Annuity Bonds

HE Annuity Bonds of our two Soci-

eties are absolutely safe and yield a
return according to one’s age. They make
their appeal ordinarily to people over 40
years of age. Send the coupon for a free
folder which gives full details.

The Massachusetts S. P. C. ,A. (or)
The American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Ave., Boston, Mass. ’

Without obligation to me, please send me
the folder about your Annuity Bonds.

Name ............................... .
Age .................................

Street ..................................

Town ............................... '. -
State ................................ .

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

_ -___, _.“.._ . Ankh L—r.‘._-‘uLA_ A11»

 
 
   
   
     
  

   

  

GLORY TO
GOD,
PEACE ON EARTH,
KINDNESS, JUSTICE

AND MERCY TO
~ EVERY LIVING
CREATURE.

7
g
m
2

 

Founded by Geo. T. Angell Incorporated 1889

For rates Of membership in both of our Societies
see back cover. Checks should be made payable to
Treasurer.

Ofﬁcers of the American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds
JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First
Boston Corporation
CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President, United Shoe
Machinery Corporation

PHILIP STOCKTON, President, First National Bank of
Boston

Foreign Corresponding Representatives

George B. Duff ................... Australia
Luis Pareja Cornejo ............... Ecuador
Charles A. Williams .............. France
Leonard T. Hawksley ............. Italy
Mrs. Mary P. E. Nitobe .......... Japan
Mrs. Marie C. E. Houghton ....... Madeira
Dr. A. T. Ishkanian .............. Mexico
Joaquin Julia ..................... Spain
Mrs. Alice W. Manning ........... Turkey

Humane Press Bureau

Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke, Secretary
180 Longwood Ave., Boston

Field Workers of the Society
Mrs. Alice L. Park, Palo Alto, California
Mrs. Jennie R. Nichols, Tacoma, Washington
James D. Burton, Harriman, Tennessee
Mrs. Katherine Weathersbee, Atlanta, Georgia
Rev. F. Rivers Barnwell, Fort Worth, Texas
Miss Blanche Finley, Richmond, Virginia
Rev. John W. Lemon, Ark, Virginia
Miss Lucia F. Gilbert, Boston, Massachusetts
Mrs. Jennie R. Toomim, Chicago, Illinois
Seymour Carroll, Columbia, South Carolina
Rev. R. E. Griffith, De Land, Florida

Field Representative
Wm. F. H. Wentzel, M. S., Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

Field Lecturer in Massachusetts
Ella A. Maryott

SUMMARY OF ACTIVITIES OF FIELD
WORKERS FOR MAY, 1937

Number of Bands of Mercy formed,

474
Number of addresses made, 324
Number of persons in audiences, 51,570

Safe Annuity Bonds

HE Annuity Bonds of our two Soci-

eties are absolutely safe and yield a
return according to one’s age. They make
their appeal ordinarily to people over 40
years of age. Send the coupon for a free
folder which gives full details.
The Massachusetts S. P. C. A. (or)
The American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Ave., Boston, Mass.

Without obligation to me, please send me
the folder about your Annuity Bonds.
Name

Age

.............
.....................

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Teach Children Care Of Pets

Affection Not Enough — Youngsters
Must Learn Proper Treatment

ANGELO PATRI

Copyright, 1937, by the Bell Syndicate, Inc.
Reproduced by special permission of the Boston Herald

HILDREN get a great deal of pleasure

out Of their association with their pets.
The antics Of the kitten, the intelligent
friendship of the dog, the close intimacy Of
the pony call out the ﬁnest emotions Of child-
hood. Few children there are who do not
love their pets with an abiding affection.

But affection is not enough. The love and
loyalty that the pets give their owners de-
serves, insists upon a loyal response in
care and protection. The child who does
not feed and wash his pet is not getting
the real association, the real thrill of the
association.

The dog of course is the most easily
understood, and most appreciated of the lot,
but the dog attaches himself to the one
who takes care Of him. It is not the one
who buys him that he loves, but the one
who feeds him, brushes and combs him,
talks and laughs with him, plays with him,
tends him in sickness and in health that he
pours out his unbounded devotion and affec-
tion upon.

It is good to give pets to children if the
children are ready to care for them. Other-
wise it is bad for the pets and the children
alike. Little ones who poke their ﬁngers
into the dog’s eyes, who drag the cat about
by the tail, are going to be hurt. Knowing
no better they are going tO hurt back and
that establishes the wrong relationship at
once.

Give the pets to the children when they
are ready to take care Of them. If a boy
wants a dog ask him if he is willing to feed
him, and make him understand what that
implies in regularity, cleanliness, patience
and forethought. Many boys want tO own a
dog, but many leave the care of them to
other people, and that won’t do. The animal
is dependent upon his owner for his care,
and certainly he earns it.

Abuse Of animals should not be tolerated.
If a child strikes or kicks an animal the pet
should be rescued and the child’s Offense
clearly indicated to him. He should be de-
prived Of association with the pet until he
shows he can be trusted with his care. If
he gets the idea that he can abuse an ani-
mal he has formed an unfortunate habit of
thought. He is likely to pass along his
treatment Of the animal to the rest of the
world. That will cost him the respect and
esteem of his fellows, the pleasant associa-
tion that others enjoy will be denied him.
He will have no friends for the very ani-
mals will shun him. Cruelty is one vice
that is universally despised. It is unneces-
sary for any child to be afflicted with it.
Training will soon teach him to be kind, tO
return love for love, service for service in
overﬂowing measures as it is given him.

Children are not the worst offenders when
it comes to the mistreatment of pets. What
about the people who leave the pet cat be-
hind when they close the house for the vaca-
tion months, or go to Europe for a year, or
move a long distance away? Imagine the
sort of person it must be who leaves his
dog homeless and friendless after years of

July, 1937

association. Think of the poor creatures’
distress when they ﬁnd the house closed, no
familiar voice to call them, no food, no
drink, nothing but a hostile world to greet
them in their grief and loneliness.

Animals are entitled to the best care we
can give them once we assume responsibility
for them. They become a family Obliga-
tion if not a family’s beloved member. They
stand by us in good times and in bad. We
can do no less by them.

Springfield WOmen Meet

More than sixty members and guests
attended the annual meeting of the Spring-
ﬁeld Branch, Women’s Auxiliary of the
Massachusetts S. P. C. A., held at the Long—
meadow Country Club on May 13. Among
the speakers at the luncheon were Albert
A. Pollard, treasurer of the Massachusetts
S. P. C. A., and Mrs. Edith Washburn
Clarke, president Of the Boston Auxiliary.

At the business session Mrs. Donald C.
Kibbe was re—elected president for a ﬁfth
term, a testimonial to her popularity and
efﬁciency in this Ofﬁce. Other ofﬁcers chosen
included the following: First vice-president,
Mrs. George S. Sabin; second vice-president,
Mrs. Stuart M. Robson; recording secre—
tary, Mrs. Frank W. Winslow; correspond-
ing secretary, Mrs. Raymond E. Lawrence,
treasurer, Mrs. Herbert F. Payne; chair-
man of ways and means, Mrs. M. F. Peter-
son; chairman Of social committee, Mrs. A.
Mayo Fisk; chairman of membership com—
mittee, Mrs. Theodore B. Winter; chairman
of work committee, Mrs. Donald McAllister;
chairman of program committee, Mrs. Har—
Old D. Stickney; directors, Mrs. Charles
Denault, Mrs. Aaron Clarke Bagg, Mrs.
Dwight W. Ellis, and Mrs. George W. Ellis.

American Fondouk, Fez

Report for April, 1937 —30 Days

Daily average large animals 46
Forage for same 33 60.77
Put to sleep 39 10.23
Transportation 7. 13
Daily average dogs 9.8
Forage for same 6.54
Wages, grooms, watchmen and stable-boys 111.71
Superintendent’s salary 53.62
Veterinary’s salary 20.11
Motor ambulance upkeep 14.77
Motor bicycle upkeep 1.63
Sundries 65.82
Actual operating expenses $352.33
Building upkeep account 14.47
$366.80

Entries: 11 horses, 14 mules, 75 donkeys.

Exits: 6 horses, 9 mules, 48 donkeys.

Outpatients treated: 54 horses, 71 mules, 75 donkeys,
6 dogs, 7 cats, and other small animals.

Other Fondouks visited: 70, all native Fondouks.

SUPERINTENDENT’S NOTES: 286 cases investi-
gated, 5,233 animals seen, 955 animals treated, 61

animals transferred tO Fondouk Americain, 18 pack-
saddles (infected) destroyed.

Friends Of the work at Fez will be glad
to know we have ﬁnally been able to pur—

chase the ﬁne piece Of land adjoining the.

Fondouk. This will provide a greatly de-
sired area into which to turn many a con—
valescing horse or mule where he can ﬁnd
pasturage and a place for exercise. We
were extraordinarily fortunate in securing
it at auction for $1,340. It was a rare
bargain and a cash transaction. The prop-
erty now is ours and paid for through the
help Of generous friends.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

NEMA

(TETRACHLORETHYLENE C. T.)

WORM CAPSULES

eﬁ'ec t1 ver remove

   
  
 
  
  
    
    
     

Dependable, safe, easy-to-
give worm treatment.
Keep your dog worm free
and thrifty.
0R
wnlﬂgr [310.652
3 O O K L E val
on the practzcbalgtsmo’l? all ‘
of worms in ' N-68-I
a 85- ADDRESS DESK
breeds and g Animal Industry Dept.
PARKE, DAVIS & 00., Detroit, Mich.

Drug Stores Sell Parke- Davis Products

  

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

“OUR DUMB ANIMALS”
BOUND VOLUMES

Including the twelve numbers of
1936. Beautifully bound in cloth and
stamped in gold. 192 pages—150
illustrations. Postpaid to any part of
the world for One Dollar.

Address: OUR DUMB ANIMALS
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston

 

 

 

 

-DAN DRU FF

AND HAIR LOSS CHECKED
I'I'CI-IING RELIEVED BY

USING

 

SOAP and OINT

 

 

THIS SPACE
CONTRIBUTED

 

 

 

 

Since 1832

J. S. WATERMAN & SONS, lnc.
Mubertakers

BOSTON—BROOKLINE—CAMBRIDGE
City and Out-of-Town Service

 

 

 

 

Humane literature and Band of Mercy Supplies

For Sale at 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass, at these prices, postpaid.

Titles in bold-face type are of books or booklets

Our Dumb Animals, 1936, bound volume $1.00
Colored Posters, 17 x 28 inches, with
attractive pictures and verses, six in
the set ............................. 00

1.
Be Kind to Animals Blotters, 61g; x 3% $0. 50 per 100

About the Horse
Black Beauty (English), cloth,....$1.00 and 50 cts.

What Constitutes Cruelty, Francis H.

Rowley ........................ $0. 30 per 100
Humane Horse book, 32 pp., 5 cts. each or 5. 00 “
The Horse—Treatment of Sores, etc. 60 “
Humane Education Leaflet, No. 5 . . . . .50 “ “
The Horse’s Prayer .................. .30 “ “
The Bell of Atri, poem by Longfellow .. .50 “ “
The Care of Mules .................... .50 “ “

About the Dog

Beautiful Joe, new, illus., $1.50 ........ small, 50 cts.
Distemper in Dogs, Dr. Schneider ...... Free
Rabies vs. Running Fits, Dr. Schneider . Free

Eulogy on the Dog, by Vest, post- card. ..$1 OOper 100

The Dog—Its Care in Health and Disease .60 “
Feeding the Dog and the Cat, Dr.

Schneider ...................... 2.00 “ “
Humane Education Leaflets, Nos. 3 and 4 50 “ “
What the Chained Dog Says .......... .50 “ “
The Story of Barry .................. .30 “ “
“Don” and His Boy. Scout Friends,

J. P. Lyons ........................ .50 “ “
Road Accidents to Dogs, 4 pp. Free

Boots’ Day, play, for two boys and three
girls .................... 3 cts. each, ﬁve for 10 cts.

About the Bird

The Birds of God, 318 pp., illus .......... cloth,
Trial of the Birds, play, 3 cts. ea. ; 12 for
25 cts.

$0.45

$2.00 per 100

Humane Education Leaflets, Nos. 1 and 2 .50 per 100
How the Birds Help the Farmer ...... .50 “ “
The Air-gun and the Birds ............ .50 “ “

About the Cat
The Cat—Its Care in Health and Disease $0. 60 per 100
.5

Surplus Cats ........................ 0
The Cat in Literature ................ .50 “ “
Do Not Leave Your Cat to Starve .. .. .50 “ “
Mollie Whitefoot’s Vacation ............ .50 “ “
“The Beggar Cat,” post-card, 6 cts. doz. .50 “ “
Tommy’s Tavern, 4 pp. .............. 1.00 “ “
I Knew She was a Lady ............... .50 “ “
About Other Animals
Prince Rudolf’s Quest, Kenniston, 150
pp. ., special ........................ boards, 50 cts.
The Strike at Shane’s, cloth, 30 cts ..... paper, 7 cts.
For Pity’ s Sake ...................... paper, 5cts.

Michael Brother of Jerry, Jack London, cloth, 75 cts.
Heaven’s Rage, Helen Trevelyan ............
Laugh, Clown, Laugthelen Trevelyan . .,2cloth $1c. 080
The Great Cruelty Again, Dr. Rowley .. Free
First Aid to Animals, Dr. Schneider, 8 pp.

$1.00 per 100
Gripped in the Teeth of Steel, 2 pp. 00 “ “
How to Kill Animals Humanely, 4 pp. 1. 00 “ “
Humane Education Leaflet, No. 6, Animals .50 “ “

Ways of Kindness ..................... .50per 100
Humane Education Leaflet, No. 7, Farm

Animals ........................... .50 “ “
A Wise Fish .......................... .50 “ “

The Jack London Club

What is the Jack London Club? ........ .30 per 100
Foreword from “Michael Brother of Jerry” .30 "
Films, Fakes and Facts, Helen Trevelyan,

Do Wild Animals Prefer Captivity? Helen
Trevelyan, 4 pp.

Humane Education

The Relation of the Home to Character
Formation, Dr. Francis H. Rowley. ..
The Humane Bulletin, for use in schools,
96p ................. 12 cents each; ten for $1.00
Carep and Kindness for Our Animal
Friends, 29 pp., paper covers, many
illus. .............. 15 cents each , seven for $1.00
Kindness Picture Book, 32 pp., 15 cts. ; seven for $1.00
The Teacher’s Helper in Humane Edu-
cation, 32 pp. ....................... each, 10 cts.
An Early Start to Kindness, Lucia F.
Gilbert, 48 pp. For ﬁrst and second
grades ..........................
Incidents About Animals as Told to
School Children by George T. Angel]
2 cts. each;
Picture Lesson Cards, each 10 cts., set
of eight ...........................
“Be Kind to Animals” pennants ......

H H

Free

each, 10 cts.

$1.00 per 100

35 cts.
each, 25 cts.

The Humane Idea, Dr. Francis H.
Rowley .............. cloth, 35 cts.; paper, 15 cts.
Friends and Helpers (selections for

school use) Sarah J. Eddy .......... cloth $1.00
Lessons on Kindness to Animals $3.00 per 100
The B—K—T—A—Club, play, 3 cts. each, ten for 25c.
Fred Changes His Mind, play, 5 cts. each; six for 25c.
“And a Little Child Shall Lead Them,’
play ................ 3 cts. each; ten for 25 cts.
Friends of Fur and Feather, play.
3 cts. each, ten for 25 cts.
$1. 50 per 100
1. 00 “

Humane Exercises ...................
Humane Sunday, 1937 . .
Humane Education the Vital Need Dr.
Rowley, short radio address, 2 cts. each; .75 “ “
Humane Education, What to Teach and
How to Teach It ................... .50 “ “
Outlines of Study in Humane Education 1. 50 “ “

Early Lessons in Kindness or Cruelty .. .50 “ “
A Talk with the Teacher ............... .50 “ “
Our Love for Animals, 3 short radio ad-

dress .................. 2 cts. each; 1. 00 “ “
The Coming Education ................ .30 “ “
A Festival of Tender Mercies .......... .50 “ “
Need of Humane Education Societies and

Methods of Forming Them .......... .50 “ “
Bookmark, with “A Humane Prayer” 1.00 “ “
A Great Prophecy, Dr. Rowley ........ Free

Band of Mercy

“Be Kind to Animals” Buttons, three

styles—Band of Mercy, Humane So-

ciety, or S. P. C. A ................. $1.00 per 100

Buttons—white star on blue ground with
gilt letters and border, one cent each 1.00 “ “

Badges, gold finish, large, 10 cts. small 5 cts.
“Band of Mercy” Pennant ............ 35 cts.
Songs of Happy Life, with music, S.

J. Eddy ............................ 50 cts.
Songs of Happy Life (56 pages, words

only) ............................. $3.00 per 100
Band of Mercy Membership Card ...... .50 “
How to Form Bands of Mercy .......... .50 “ “

Does it Pay, Story of one Band of Mercy .30 “ ‘_‘
No order by mail for less than 5 cts.

Please enclose remittance with orders for less than $1

AMERICAN HUMAN E EDUCATION SOCIETY, 180 Longwood Ave., Boston, Mass.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

REDUCED

30 minutes.

State whether regular 35 mm.,

PRICES FOR SUMMER RENTALS!

“IN BEHALF OF ANIMALS”

Film showing activities of Angell Animal Hospital of hiassachusetts S. P. C. A., Boston,
scenes at Society’s Rest Farm for Horses, Methuen, and its Animal Shelters

“THE BELL OF ATRI”

One-reel Film, illustrating Longfellow’s poem of the same title

or 16 mm., is required
Terms on application to Secretary, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston

. ' Two reels,

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

Page 29

punctilious manners, but a superb appre-
ciation of what honest comradeship can
mean, went on into the Great Beyond
of All Dogs today—at the ripe old age of
thirteen.

I shall miss him when I go home to-
night.

Good night.

Horses in Winter

The Scottish S. P. C. A., Edinburgh, is—
sued the following last December:

At this cold season the Directors of the
Scottish S. P. C. A. desire to plead for
the horses which one sees drawn up at the
sides of streets and roads. When the
horses are standing still, their loins should
be covered by a rug, an old coat or a dry
sack. If the loins are kept warm, the
horse gets warmth through his body, kid—
neys and legs. This is a simple kindness
which every driver can show, and which
will be amply repaid by the better service
which his horse will be able to render in
consequence.

Thoroughbreds

LUCIEN M. LEWIS

I saw an aged thoroughbred

Hitched to a heavy wagon. Head
Dejected and with frail legs bowed,
Unsteadily he pulled his load.

So ﬁne his coat, so keen his eyes,

I saw at once through his disguise,

For underneath fate’s cruel stings

I saw the blood of equine kings.

And as I watched he pricked his ears—
Did he in. dreams hear shouts and cheers?
The jockey’s cry, the pounding hoof,

The roar of throngs that shook the roof?
Poor thoroughbred with blood so blue,
Brave thoroughbred, God pity you!

And may He in His mercy ban,

Whether in animal or man,

All thoroughbreds from cruel load,
From tyrant’s lash and junkman’s goad!

 

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Don ’t Blame the Cat

HENRY H.GRAHAM

ROM time to time the ﬁsh and game

departments get the jitters because
tame cats are abandoned in the trackless
forests where they often go wild and con-
stitute a menace to desirable furred and
feathered life. Several newspaper stories
dealing with this nomadic feline army have
gone out over the leased wire services.

There seems no doubt that the practice of
getting rid of cats by dumping them off in
the wilds is a bad one, not only for the
felines themselves but for small creatures
as well. But the cats should not be blamed;
rather the fault lies with motorists and
others who are guilty of this inhumane,
thoughtless procedure.

When thrown on their own resources it is
only natural for cats to kill birds and small
animals. Hunger is a potent force and
everything must eat or starve. .Next to the
law of self—preservation it is the strongest
urge of all. Human beings would do any-
thing to keep from starving if in the wilder—
ness, and the lower animals follow the same
practice. Cats are seldom killers when fed
regularly by their owners. When not fed
they must hunt food themselves, getting it
any way they can.

One day in the Sawtooth mountains of
Idaho I heard a mewing in the bushes.
Upon investigating I found a beautiful gray
cat with a litter of three baby kittens. As
they were far from civilization I felt sure
the mother had been abandoned shortly be-
fore giving birth to her offspring. My
heart went out to this little wilderness fam—
ily, suddenly cast adrift at a most inoppor-
tune time. That mother cat undoubtedly
had a hard job rustling grub, for domestic
cats are accustomed to being served with
meals. It was brutal to shove her on her
own resources at any time, but especially
when about to bring other lives into the
world.

Upon approaching the felines the mother
arched her back and growled menacing—
ly, indicating that she
had begun to fear hu-
man beings already. It
took me fully half an
hour to win her conﬁ-
dence and convince her
that I was friend instead
of foe. I carried her and
the kittens back home,
treated them kindly and
they remained at the
house. Had I not hap—
pened along in that re-
mote spot they might all
have perished.

Wild life has a hard
enough struggle as it is,
without ﬁlling the for-
ests with additional nat-
ural enemies. Cats make
desirable pets and cause
no trouble if kept do—
mesticated. But they re-
vert to the wild when
placed “on their own”
because necessity de~
mands it.

Feb. 1937
Dead Horse Gulch

PERCIVAL P. BAXTER

Former Governor of Maine

N the great Klondike stampede for gold
ﬂthat took place in 1898-99 the first stage
of the journey began at tidewater at the
little village of Skagway in Alaska, and
from that town the gold seekers climbed
up over the mountain. passes to the summit
and then ﬂoated down the great Yukon
River on their voyages to Dawson, six
hundred and forty miles to the north.

The most dangerous and difﬁcult trail of
all was the ﬁrst one encountered which
wound up through the valley to White
Pass, some twenty miles north of Skag—
way. Men, mules, horses and dogs strug—
gled up this trail in the dead of winter and
heat of summer, all heavily laden with bur-
dens far beyond what they should have
attempted to carry.

The most hazardous place on the White
Pass route became known as “DEAD
HORSE GULCH” and here more than three
thousand mules and horses laid down their
lives in their service to man. These poor
creatures died from lack of food, their legs
were broken in the logs and rocks and they
were mired in the swamps. Sometimes they
were mercifully shot and at other times
were left to die lingering deaths in the dark—
ness and cold, but the survivors moved pain—
fully on and on. In one instance alone,
seventy men and women with their pack
animals were blotted out by a single ava—
lanche.

Looking back over the years the kind—
he-arted members of two organizations
called “The Ladies of the Golden North”
and “The Alaska Yukon Pioneers” felt that
some memorial should be raised to the faith-
ful pack animals who made possible man’s
access to the gold ﬁelds of the Klondike,
and the following tablet was erected by
them near the head of Dead Horse Gulch.
It is located at a high point on the railroad
line that now winds upward through the
Pass and looks down across the valley up
which men and animals toiled thirty-eight
years ago.

The spot where the tablet is placed is
most appropriate, for just below lies the
actual trail which was the scene of these
painful struggles. The railroad train al-
ways stops and allows passengers to dis—
mount so that they may read the inscription
which is a most ﬁtting memorial to man’s
uncomplaining and faithful servants, the
horses and mules of the Klondike stampede.
The tablet reads as follows:

 

THE DEAD ARE SPEAKING

In memory of us 3000 pack animals
that laid our bones on these awful
hills during the gold rush of 1897-
1898. We now thank those listening
souls that heard our groans across
this stretch of years. We waited but
not in vain.

Placed by The Ladies of the Golden North
and The Alaska Yukon Pioneers

 

 

 

 




«Amt—JM“

U. S.Trade Mark, Registered \ n 1

 

 

 

 

 

T ANGELL 1N 1868.AND FOR FORD/“ONE

The Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

The American Humane Education Society

The American Band of Mercy

I would not enter on my list of friends,

Though graced with polished manners and. ﬁne sense,

Yet wanting sensibility, the man
Who needlessly sets foot upon a worm.
—COWPER

    
     

GLORY To
GOD,
PEACE on EARTH,

  

 
     

mo MERCY 1"0'
EVERY Luvmo
CREATURE.

husetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood, Massachusetts

Entered as second-class matter, June 29, 1917, at the Post Ofﬁce at Norwood, Mass., under the Act of March 3, 1879
Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103,, Act of October 3, 1917, authorized, July 13, 1919

Boston Ofﬁce, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

Vol. 70

Some day a popular vote will decide
whether or not this country will go to war
and not the politicians and munitions
makers.

A Bill is before the British Parliament to
prohibit the showing of any ﬁlm in which
the suffering of animals is seen or in the
making of which any animal had been
caused suffering. We hope it will be en-
acted into law.

On Be Kind to Animals Day the slaughter
of pigs, cattle, fowl, etc., by decree of the
city government was forbidden. In what
country, in what city?
Well might the correspondent who afﬁrms
this as the truth say with the well-known
broadcaster, “Believe it or not!”

The San Francisco S. P. C. A. is sponsor-
ing a bill in the California Legislature to
make it illegal to release any live animal
to be pursued or injured or worried by dogs.
Recently two men were arrested by the San
Francisco Society who were caught releas-
ing live rabbits to be chased by greyhounds
in training for races. And yet managers
and supporters of dog-racing tracks, one of
the growing abominations of our modern
day, deny that dogs are so trained. From
all we can learn, this training is done
chieﬂy in the South and Southwest.

A Bill before the Pennsylvania Legisla—
ture would lower to 12 years the age limit
at which ﬁrearms could be sold to children.
The argument used is that fewer accidents
with ﬁrearms occur among persons under
21 than among adults. The Starry Cross,
with a touch of irony, answers the argu-
ment by saying, “If children of 12 can bet—
ter be trusted with weapons of destruction,
children of eight and nine would prove
still safer and children of ﬁve and six safer
still.” Hardly a day passes that some paper
does not tell the story of fatal accidents
from guns or pistols in the hands of boys
from 12 to 14 and 15 years of age.

In Nanking, China. "

June,l937

No. 6

The Great Cruelty Again

HAT is it? The way our food ani-
W mals are slaughtered here in the

United States. How many of them
victims of this cruelty? Here’s the answer
from the United States Department of
Agriculture for the year 1936: Slaughtered
under Federal inspection—10,975,095 cattle;
6,069,714 calves; 36,054,968 hogs; 17,215,811
sheep; 50,720 goats. Total under Federal
inspection—Seventy million, three hundred
and sixty-six thousand, three hundred and
eight (70,366,308).

But this is not all. The Government
ofﬁcial in charge of this Department says,
“It is estimated the inspected slaughter
constitutes approximately 68 per cent of
the total for cattle, 61 per cent for calves,
65 per cent for hogs and 80 per cent for
sheep and lambs.” So we have the total
of those slaughtered in our great abattoirs
and in the small and often wretched, un-
sanitary and locally inspected shambles
frequently hidden away from the public,
and on farms, of 103,079,000. Over a hun-
dred and three millions.

What progress has been made during the
past 50 years, to go no farther back, in
lessening the cruelty associated with the
killing of these helpless creatures? We be-
lieve it can be said truthfully, None. In
England much has been accomplished. In
Scotland much. In Holland, Germany,
Switzerland, Norway, Sweden, humaner
methods have steadily been taking the place
of earlier and less humane ones. In some
of these countries it would seem, from ob-
serving the way the animals are destroyed,
their suffering has been reduced practically
as far as it can be. And this in spite of
the fact that we are told repeatedly that
slaughtering is done here as humanely as
across the ocean. We know this is not so
for we have twice visited the great abattoirs
of England and the Continent and watched
with our own eyes.

How are these more than a hundred mil-
lion killed? The cattle—these are supposed

to be driven into pens and rendered un-
conscious by a blow upon the head before
they are pulled up by a chain fastened
to a hind leg and the knife plunged into
the throat. Alas, with several of them
in a pen, restless and frightened, the man
with the poleaxe, or heavy hammer, ﬁnds
it impossible too often to strike the fatal
spot with a single blow. The writer of
these words in more than one of our great
slaughter—houses has seen the blow fall upon
the moving head two or three and, in one
case, seven times before the poor creature
dropped to its knees. The calves, the sheep,
the swine—for the most part are suspended
by a hind leg, then have their throats cut
and die as the blood pours over the eyes
and face upon the reeking ﬂoor.

Even on our farms, in the great majority
of cases, the same old methods prevail.
Hogs with opened and bleeding throat
stagger around till they drop from loss of
blood. Calves and sheep, we dare to hope,
on many of our farms are generally effec-
tively stunned before the knife is used.

But why do these old methods still pre-
vail in the giant plants where the larger
part of our food animals are killed? Pri-
marily because it would cost too much to do
it humanely. For years the humane so-
cieties of the country, through the offer of
large rewards, lived in hope of ﬁnding some
device that would cause instant and pain—
less death and that still would not so slow
down the process as to make it economically
unproﬁtable, but no such device was ob-
tained. A few years ago it looked as if
this stunning, quick and painless, could be
done with a special electric current. We
gladly admit that some of the leading
packing-houses were willing to spend a good
many thousand dollars to try out this plan.
In the ﬁrst place, it proved too slow. In
the second place, the meat showed lesions
or blood spots, as the result of the shock
that reduced its value as a marketable
product. Up to the present nothing is being

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

Apr. 1937

attempt to carry the fight to me, show-
ing that she preferred peace to war. I
could not blame her in the least for being
suspicious of men. She loved her baby and
was willing to die in its behalf if called
upon to do so. All animals obey the law
of self—defense.

Many stories are told of timber wolves
attacking people. Yet when these tales
are tracked down substantiation is lack-
ing. One man has offered a considerable
sum to anyone who will offer indubitable
proof that a lobo ever assailed a human
being. The vast majority of such stories
are products of a vivid imagination.

Cougars inspire fear in the hearts of
numerous individuals. This is for two
reasons: the frightening screams of the
animals, particularly at night, and the leg—
ends about the big cats trailing human
beings and finally pouncing upon them.
Yet the cougar is really cowardly. If it
trails a man it does so out of curiosity,
not with the intention of attacking.

I know a farmer who was trailed ten
miles through the wastelands by this
stealthy animal, which, however, always
kept a safe distance behind. It never
showed signs of closing in and when the
farmer came within sight of home the
animal disappeared.

Doe’s Appeal Saves
Baby Fawn

ROSA M. HALEMBA

HIS is a little story about “Fanny,”

the tame deer that has been photo-
graphed, petted and fed by tourists for
years at Lake MacDonald hotel in Glacier
National Park.

Each summer for many seasons Fanny
has appeared with two fawns, delivering
herself and young ones. into voluntary im-
prisonment within the hotel corral. This
year, however, she returned from the woods
with only one fawn. No sooner had she
brought her offspring into the corral than
she turned hoof and ran back into the
woods. Day after day the mother re—
turned and fed her young one. After the
feeding she would snort, stamp around and
depart again into the woods.

One morning she came back and fed her
fawn, then ran up to Nick, the hotel gar-
dener, and repeated her strange antics. “I
believe she’s trying to tell us something,”
said Nick. The gardener decided to follow
her. Fanny showed unmistakable glee. She
loped ahead into the woods, turning around
every few feet, snorting and prancing and
waiting for Nick and a few others to show
up.

At last she led us to her secret, another
fawn, hopelessly entangled in some old, dis-
carded fence wire. The dutiful mother
had kept it alive and strong by her daily
nursing visitations. The gardener extri-
cated the young deer and the pair pranced
off toward the hotel corral.

By leading the rescue of one of her off-
spring Fanny has established herself as

heroine of Glacier National Park animals.

In making your will, please remember
the American Humane Education Society
of Boston, the ﬁrst of its kind in the world.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

The Horse as a Teacher

EDNA W. WEBER

O many times animals are looked down

upon as creatures decidedly inferior
to humans. So many times we do not real-
ize that we can learn from animals; that
in many respects they are not at all in-
ferior to us.

For example, a few years ago, I was
stranded with a friend in the mountains
of Wyoming. A cloudburst, which washed
out the mountain road, made it impossible
for us to leave our little cabin 8,000 feet up
in the hills, for several days. But those few
days proved to be unusually interesting
ones.

We found that, early in the morning,
with the aid of ﬁeld glasses, we could ob-
serve animals as they came to the water—
hole to drink. Of course we were some
distance away and took our places where
the wind wouldn’t carry our scent to them.

One morning a herd of range horses came
to the water-hole. As they swung into
View they presented a picture of absolute
beauty with their manes and tails ﬂying in
the wind, their exquisite rhythm of move-
ment, and with the feeling they imparted
of grace and freedom. Sudden-1y they stop-
ped. They were still some distance from
the water—hole. The stallion who was lead-
ing the herd apparently instructed them to
remain there while he investigated. Calmly
and quietly they stood while he went down
to the water-hole and looked around. Head
held high, intelligent eyes scanning the
landscape—I wondered then how anyone
could ever murder such a vitally alive crea—
ture, and was thankful there were no hunt—
ers in this wild section. When he had satis-
ﬁed himself, he wheeled about and dashed
back to the waiting herd. Surely he must
have been thirsty but he didn’t drink. In-
stead, he had gone back to fetch his herd
and he led them all down to the water—
hole. They made a dash for the water;
thirstily they gulpe-d it down; still our
handsome stallion didn’t drink. No, he was
on guard, watching; intensely alert, he was
assuming every ounce of responsibility for
his herd. When they had satisﬁed their
thirst, he led them back again to their place
of safety; then and then only did he drink.
And in a few moments,
they were off.

Certainly this stal-
lion couldn’t be classi—
ﬁed as inferior. He was
a gentleman in every
sense of the word,
exemplifying courtesy, E
consideration, trust-
worthiness—all those ‘
ﬁne qualities which we ,
ourselves like to de-
velop.

A humane boycott of
all vicious and discred-
itable shows, featuring
animal acts, was long
ago urged by the Jack
London Club. Send to
headquarters, 180
Longwood Avenue. 303- .
ton, for detailed infor-
mation about it.

KINDNESS TO HORSES PAYS 100% DIVIDENDS

Page 61
“Old Kate”
A D D I E BOOM
HE was nibbling grass along the

hedge, when a car rattled by. She
shied away from the noise, turning her
head side-wise, cocking her ears, and trying
in vain to see with her sightless eyes. As
the sound subsided, “Old Kate,” thirty-year—
old mare, lowered her head and resume-d
nibbling. The morning sunshine glinted upon
her once handsome coat of golden chestnut
and warmed her stiffened legs.

Several rods [away the noisy car came
to a halt and sudden silence. Just then
Old Kate’s owner reached the end of the
rows of corn which he was cultivating.
As he stopped his team he heard his neigh-
bor of the tin vehicle call: “Hello! Jim.

How would you like to trade that old mare
back there for a calf?”

Deliberately Jim left the cultivator and
leaned against the fence. Eying the would—
be bargainer curiously, he inquired: “What
kind of a calf you want to trade, Ed?”

“0!” replied Ed, “he is a good calf—a
Durham grade.”

Jim pointed to the splendid span of horses
hitched to the cultivator. “Those are her
colts,” he said. “The boy is mowing with
another pair almost like ’em, another one
stands in the barn, besides the team I sold
my brother. Over in the w-oodlot runs a
couple of her granddaughters—likely year-
lings, too. Why, man,” he continued, “Old
Kate helped me clear this farm, yes, and
helped me pay for it. She has earned her
keep while she lives and a grave when she
dies. No, Ed, if your calf were made of
gold I wouldn’t trade, and I’ll like you
better if you don’t mention the subject
again. Good morning.”

Jim rode across the ﬁeld, whistling soft—
ly, while his neighbor rattled away down
the road.

Somehow to me the sun shone brighter,
and the birds sang sweeter, as I looked
across the meadow at Old Kate, contented
and secure, and made a fervent wish that
there were more folks in the world like Jim.

Be kind to animals every day in the
year.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

NEMA

(TETRACHLORETHYLENE c. 1'.)

WORM CAPSULES

effectively remove

Large Roundworm
and Hookworms
Dependable, safe, easy-to-
give worm treatment.
Keep your dog worm free
and thrifty.

WRITE ran
BOOKLET NO. 6531
on the practical remova
of worms in Dogs 0

d ages. ADDRESS DESK N-58-M
breeds an Animal Industry Dept,

PARKE, DAVIS 8: CO., Detroit, Mich.

 

Drug Stores Sell 'Parke- Davis Products

  
  
  
  
   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THIS SPACE
CONTRIBUTED

 

 

 

 

iTucnil'l'ii °‘ E C I E MA
. Also externally caused pimples and

rashes relieved by soothing, fast-acting /
medication of Cuticura. Buy today.

E

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

S e n d n o w
For your copy of the new

H U MANE
CALENDAR
For 1938

With colored picture,

“HARVEST TIME”

20 cents each; six for $1; twelve
for $1.80, postpaid.
Am. Humane Education Society
Boston

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

“In Behalf of Animals”

Two-reel ﬁlm, illustrating work of

Massachusetts S. P. C. A., especially
of its Hospital.

“The Bell of Atri”

One-reel ﬁlm of Longfellow’s poem
Available in 16 mm. and 35 mm.
For rent or sale

Secretary, 180 Longwood Ave., Boston

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Since 1832

J. S. WATERMAN & SONS, lnc.
Mnbcrtakzrs

BOSTON—BROOKLINE—CAMBRIDGE
City and Out-of-Town Service

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

mas delivery if desired.

TORONTO

 

HUMANE CALENDAR
1938

Contains a beautiful series of twelve pictures of man’s best friend—e
the dog, painted in natural colors by the well-known artist, Barrie Rennie.

Twenty-two of the best-known and best-loved breeds are shown, and
the calendar will appeal to all lovers of art and lovers of animals.

This Calendar will make a charming and lasting Christmas Gift and
will be mailed by us to any part of the world, postage prepaid. A gift
card bearing your name will be enclosed and the calendar held for Christ-

THE TORONTO HUMANE SOCIETY

11 St. Albans St.
ONTARIO

Price, 50c,

CANADA

 

 

 

 

 

laumane literature for QEbriStmas (gifts

For sale by the American Humane Education Society and the Massachusetts S. P. C. A.,
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass, at these prices, postpaid.

Titles in bold-face type are of books or booklets

Our Dumb Animals, 1936, bound volume $1.00
Colored Posters, 17 X 28 inches, with

attractive pictures and verses, six in

the set ........................ . . 1.00
Be Kind to Animals Blotters, 61/5, 3; 3% $0.50 per 100

About the Horse

Black Beauty (English), cloth ....... $1.00 and 50 cts.
What Constitutes Cruelty, Francis H.

Rowley ............................. $0.30 per 100
The Horse—Treatment of Sores, etc. .. .60 “ “
Humane Education Leaﬂet, No. 5 ...... .50 “ ,:
The Horse’s Prayer ................... .30
The Bell of Atri, poem by Longfellow... .50 “~ “

About the Dog
Beautiful Joe, new, illus., $1.50 ....... small, 50 cts.
Distemper in Dogs, Dr. Schneider ..... Free
Rabies vs. Running Fits, Dr. Schneider Free

Eulogy on the Dog, by Vest, post-card. $1.00 per 100
The Dog—Its Care in Health and Disease .60 “ “
Feeding the Dog and the Cat, Dr.

Schneider ........................... 2.00 “ “
Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 3 and 4 .50 “ “
What the Chained Dog Says .......... .50 “ “
The Story of Barry ................... .30 “ “
Road Accidents to Dogs, 4 pp. ......... Free
Boots’ Day, play, for two boys and three

girls ..................... 3 cts. each, ﬁve for 10 cts.

About the Bird
The Birds of God, 318 pp., illus. ......
Trial of the Birds, play, 3 cts. ea. ; 12 for
25 cts. ............................. $2.00 per 100
Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 1 and 2 .50 “ “
How the Birds Help the Farmer ......
The Air—gun and the Birds ............

About the Cat

The Cat—Its Care in Health and Disease $0.60 per 100
Surplus Cats 50 “ “

cloth, $0.45

50 ‘ﬁ ‘(
50 (t £I

The Cat in Literature ................. .50 “ “
Do Not Leave Your Cat to Starve .50 “ “
Mollie Whitefoot’s Vacation ........... .50 “ “
“The Beggar Cat,” post-card, 6 cts. doz. 50 “ “
About Other Animals

Prince Rudolf’s Quest, Kenniston, 150

pp., special ......................... boards, 50 cts.
The Strike at Shane’s, cloth, 30 cts. . paper,7 cts.
For Pity’s Sake ...................... paper, 5 cts.

Michael Brother of Jerry, Jack London, cloth, 75 cts.
Laugh, Clown, Laugh, Helen Trevelyan cloth, $1.00
The Great Cruelty Again, Dr. Rowley .. Free
First Aid to Animals, Dr. Schneider, 8 pp. $1.00 per 100
Gripped in the Teeth of Steel, 2 pp. .. 1.00 “ “
How to Kill Animals Humanely, 4 pp. . . 1.00 “ “
Humane Education Leaﬂet, No. 6, Animals .50 “ “

Ways of Kindness .................... .50 “ “
Humane Education Leaﬂet, No. 7, Farm
kAnimals‘ ............................ .50 “ “

The Jack London Club ”“4 “WM"
What is the Jack London Club? .......

' .30 per 100
Foreword from “Michael Brother of Jerry"

.30 (6 ‘6

Films, Fakes and Facts, Helen Trevelyan,

4pp. .... ... .. . .$0.50pcr100
Do Wild Animals Prefer Captivity ‘3 Helen

Trevelyan, 4 pp. .................... .50 “
Trained Animals —— Cruelty Disguised,
Helen Trevelyan, 4 pp. ............. .50 “

Humane Education

The Relation of the Home to Character
Formation, Dr. Francis H. Rowley .. Free
The Humane Bulletin, for use in schools,
96 pp. . . . . . . ......... 12 cents each; ten for $1.00
Care and Kindness for Our Animal
Friends, 29 pp., paper covers, many
illus. . . .............. 15 cents each ; seven for $1.00
Kindness Picture Book, 32 pp., 15 cts. ; seven for $1.00
The Teacher’s Helper in Humane Edu-
cation, 32 pp. ...................... each. 10 cts.
An Early Start to Kindness, Lucia F.
Gilbert, 48 pp. For ﬁrst and second
grades .............................. each, 10 cts.
Incidents About Animals as Told to
School Children by George T. Angell
2 ets. each; $1.00 per 100

“Be Kind to Animals” pennants ........ each, 25 cts.
The Humane Idea, Dr. Francis H.
Rowley ................. cloth, 35 cts. ; paper, 15 cts.

Friends and Helpers (selections for
school use) Sarah J. Eddy cloth, $1.00
Lessons on Kindness to Animals ...... $3.00 per 100
The B—K—T—A—Club, play, 3 cts. each; ten for 25c.
Fred Changes His Mind, play, 5 cts. each; six for 25c.
“And a Little Child Shall Lead Them,”
play ..................... 3 cts. each ; ten for 25 cts.
Friends of Fur and Feather, play .....
cts. each ; ten for 25 cts.
Humane Exercises .................... $1.50 per 100
Humane Education the Vital Need, Dr.
Rowley, short radio address, 2 cts. each;.75 “ “
Humane Education, What to Teach and
How to Teach it .50 “
Outlines of Study in Humane Education 1.50 “

Early Lessons in Kindness or Cruelty .. .50
A Talk with the Teacher ............. .50 "
Our Love for Animals, a Short radio ad-

dress ..................... 2 cts. each ; 1.00
The Coming Education ............... .3
Bookmark, with “A Humane Prayer” .. 1.00
A Great Prophecy, Dr. Rowley ........ Free

Band of Mercy
“Be Kind to Animals” Buttons, three
styles—Band of Mercy, Humane So-
ciety, or S. P. C. A. ................ $1.00 per 100
Buttons—white star on blue ground with
gilt letters and border, one cent each 1.00
Badges, gold ﬁnish, large, 10 cts. small 5cts.

“Band of Mercy” Pennant ............ 35 cts.
Songs of Happy Life, with music, S.

J. Eddy ............................ 50 cts.
Songs of Happy Life (56 pages, words

only) ............................... $3.00 per 100
Band of Mercy Membership Card ...... .50 “ "
How to Form Bands of Mercy ......... .50

Does it Pay, Story of one Band of Mercy .30 “
No order by mail for less than 5 cts.

Please enclose remittance with orders for less than $1

AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY, 180 Longwood Ave., Boston, Mass.

 

 




 

l4pr.1937

 

OFF FOR A GUERNSEY CATTLE SHOW

A Lone Buffalo

CHARLES

HENRY HICKS

In dingy pen where heavy wire shuts in

A few square rods of trampled sod, there
stands

A lonely buffalo. He once led bands

Of thundering, charging beasts. He heard
the din

And roar of beating hoofs, that strove to
win

Respite from deadly enemies. The lands

Whereon with numbers great as ocean sands

He roamed, now hold but weathered bones,
worn thin.

So passes to- eternal quiet, a great

And noble race. And time suppresses all—

The ancient saber—tooth’s an extinct beast;

The passenger pigeon met a tragic fate;

Huge, hairy mammoths had their rise and
fall;—

Thus, great and small are lost in death’s
mad feast.

An Ancient and Modern
Bird
WILLIS MEHANNA

What man of the country and open spaces
does not remember seeing a great, black
bird soaring in majesty high among the
clouds, never ﬂopping its wings but at all
times sailing with them full spread? The
common name of this bird is turkey buz—
zard. He is of the vulture family and is
always on the lookout for dead and decay—
ing animals. For this reason he is of great
value to a community since he consumes
putrid ﬂesh, the odor of which is unhealth-
ful as well as disagreeable. He is protected
by law and should be, for he has no faults
and hunters certainly would not want to
eat him.

The mother turkey buzzard lays two or
three grayish white eggs with black spots
on them in the hollow of a large tree rather
late in the season, and only one brood is
reared. These birds follow the warm
weather south in the fall and always re-
turn in the spring. They have survived for
many decades and are seen quite frequently
soaring high in the air, but are seldom seen
anywhere else.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Throwing versus Laying

L. D- CHAPMAN

HY is it, that if the average lay—

man in handling cattle, wishes to
have a cow, ox, or other bovine, lie down
for some purpose, he resorts. to the oft-
quoted throwing them, which racks every
bone in their bodies, and often causes per-
manent injury to the beast, instead of using
a little common sense and a lot less energy
on his part, and laying the animal down
gently without a jolt or jar?

I have been using a method for many
years, which will lay the animal down with—
out the least sign of a jar or jolt, and it
never fails. Here it is.

Take a forty-foot half—inch rope, make a
loop in one end, using a square knot. The
loop should be large enough to go over the
animal’s head and ﬁt snugly around the
neck close to the shoulders. Place the knot
on top of the animal’s neck and run the
rope back over the shoulders. Keeping knot
on top of the neck, take a half-hitch around
the body behind the shoulders and keep
the half-hitch knot on top of the back.
Now run the rope along the back, to a
point in front of the hips, where another
half—hitch is taken around the body close
in front of the hips. Be sure this knot is
also on top of the backbone. We now have
the loop around the neck and two half-
hitches as designated. Now start at the
neck and take all the slack out of the rope,
taking care that all the knots are kept
on the backbone of the beast. When the
rope has been drawn snugly around the
body we are now ready to lay the beast
down. Step squarely behind the animal,
pulling gently, the beast will settle down
in its tracks, without the least struggle or
jar and will lie naturally and comfortably.
This is a method that never fails, and, by
using it, a ten—year-old boy can lay down
the largest bull that ever grew, with ease
and safety. The only knack is to make
sure the slack is all out of the rope and
all the knots squarely on the backbone, be-
fore commencing to pull the rope. Follow
these simple precautions, and any beast can
be laid down gently and naturally, without
the slightest danger of a jar or injury.

“Blessed are the merciful.”

 

A GUERNSEY COW AT HOME

¥ 1

Animals in Guernsey

ALFRED S. CAMPBELL

AST summer I made a long stay on

the island of Guernsey. As I walked
through the narrow lanes and ﬂowery
meadows the thing which impressed me
most was the gentleness of the cattle.
Tethered out in the tiny pastures by
means of a chain and rope, they could be
approached without any fear that they
would become excited. The cows were
milked in the ﬁelds, standing quietly.
The bulls allowed themselves to be stroked
without trying to use their sharp horns,
although most of them had reached an
age when they are usually considered dan-
gerous.

Finally I asked a breeder why this was
so. “It is simple,” he said, “We never
drive our cattle; we always lead them.”
From that time I watched, and it was so.
When an animal had to be moved from
one ﬁeld to another, or to the barn, the
owner simply walked up slowly, speaking
to it, pulled up the iron tethering pin
from the ground, called “come on, girl”
and started oﬂ" slowly. The rope was never
jerked, the animal was never hurried.

While milking, if a ﬂy bit the cow and
she switched her tail or lifted a foot,
instead of shouting at her, or giving her
a blow with the milking—stool, the farmer
merely spoke to her gently, patted her
once or twice and went on milking. No
one ever moved quickly when near cattle
nor was loud conversation or the barking
of dogs allowed to disturb them.

Guernsey people ought to know how to
handle cattle, for they have raised them
for a thousand years on their little island;
but they also seem to understand horses,
and even goats. In fact, they treat all
animals as though they had feelings, and
try to make them as comfortable as pos-
sible at all times. As a consequence, their
animals are easy to manage, and live to
a respectable old age, doing all that is
expected of them and more.

Humane education is the foundation of
all reform. If it were universally adopt—
ed, poverty, crime and war would be
greatly diminished, and in time the vast
amount of money expended to sustain. ar-
mies, prisons, etc., would be saved for the
beneﬁt of the people.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

J une, 1937

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Page 85

8,331 Humane Posters Judged by Mass. S. P. C. A.

Be Kind to Animals Week Brings Mammouth School Contest—Governor Hurley Issues
Proclamation—Brief Reports from Celebrations Here and Elsewhere

 

A FEW OF THE 8,331 SCHOOL POSTERS RECEIVED IN THIS YEAR’S CONTEST BY THE MASSACHUSETTS
SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS

HE outstanding feature of the celebra-

tion of the twenty-third annual Be

Kind to Animals Week by the Massa-
chusetts S. P. C. A. was the overwhelming
success of the humane poster contest, the
entries numbering by more than 1,000 those
of any previous year. Altogether 8,331
posters were received from 542 different
schools, representing no less than 172 cities
and towns of the state. First prizes, con-
sisting of bronze medals with blue ribbons,
went to 1,081 pupils; second prizes, bronze
medals with red ribbons, were given to
1,263; while honorable mentions, carrying a
full year’s subscription to Our Dumb Ani-
mals, were awarded to 1,535 happy recipi-
ents. During the week of April 11 several
hundred of the best posters were on exhi-
bition in the Fine Arts department of the

Boston Public Library, Copley Square,
where they were visited by hundreds of
interested spectators. Only a few of these
designs are reproduced in the picture above.

Governor Hurley of Massachusetts issued
a splendid Proclamation for Be Kind to
Animals Week, early in the season, the full
text of which was printed in last month’s
issue of this magazine. Mayors of cities,
directors of radio stations, ministers of
churches of all denominations, managers of
moving-picture theaters, and especially the
press of the state, co—operated very fully
with the S. P. C. A. and local humane so-
cieties in stressing kindness to animals dur-
ing this period. The Massachusetts S. P.
C. A. distributed to nearly 10,000 teachers
in grammar schools a copy of the 8-page
pamphlet, “Humane Exercises,” which was

widely used in connection with Humane Day
programs. Several thousand copies of this
pamphlet were called for by organizations
in other states for similar use. Quantities
of other literature, including hundreds of
the national humane poster, designed by
Morgan Dennis, were also distributed, while
the Society’s two ﬁlms, “The Bell of Atri,”
and “In Behalf of Animals,” were in un-
precedented demand, both Within and with-
out the state.

Humane Sunday was observed in the even-
ing in Boston by a lecture, illustrated by
slides and ﬁlms, by Thornton W. Burgess,
presented under the auspices of the Massa-
chusetts S. P. C. A. to a large, enthusiastic
audience in the lecture hall of the Boston
Public Library. So successful was this affair
that the Library authorities have requested

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

Mar. 1937

OFFICERS OF THE MASSACHUSETTS
SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION
OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS FOR

1937

President

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY

Vice-Presidents
CHARLES G. BANCROFT
WILLIAM DANA ORCUTT

Honorary Vice-Presidents

His Excellency Charles F. Hurley, Governor
of Massachusetts

His Honor Frederick W. Mansﬁeld, Mayor
of Boston

Ex-Governor Channing H. Cox, Boston

Ex—Governor Percival P. Baxter, Portland,
Me.

Adams, Edward S., Fall River

Appleton, Francis Henry, Boston

Appleton, Miss Maud E., Boston

Bagg, Mrs. Aaron 0., Holyoke

Bartlett, Miss Bess B., Lynn

Bartley, Hattie C., Waltham

Bolton, Charles K., Shirley

Booth, George F., Worcester

Burgess, Thornton W., Springﬁeld

Burns, Bishop Charles Wesley, Boston

Caldwell, Miss Louise W., Dorchester

Chambers, Mrs. Percy, Williamstown

Cheever, Mrs. G. J., Springﬁeld

Clarke, Mrs. Edith Washburn, Boston

Conant, James B., Pres. Harvard Uni-
versity

Converse, Mrs. Costello 0., Boston

Cousens, John A., Pres. Tufts College

Crossman, Mrs. Howard A., Hampton Falls,
N. H.

Cummins, Thomas K., Milton

Ellis, Mrs. Dwight‘W” Springﬁeld

Endicott, William, Boston

Fitzgerald, Hon. John F., Boston

Forbes, J. Murray, Boston

Freshel, Mrs. Curt P., New York City

Gallagher, Rev. Louis J., Pres. Boston Col-
lege ,

Godbeer, George H., Fitchburg

Griswold, Lyman W., Greenﬁeld

Lowell, Dr. A. Lawrence, Boston

McAfee, Mildred H., Pres. Wellesley College

Park, J. Edgar, Pres. Wheaton College ‘

Parker, Hon. Herbert, Lancaster

Peirce, Miss Charlotte, Boston

Ravenscroft, Mrs. Henry, Santa Barbara,
Calif.

Sears, Miss E. R., Boston

Thayer, Mrs. Ezra R., Boston

Upham, Miss E. Annie, Dorchester

Webster, ,H. S., Brookline

Woolley, Mary E., Pres. Mt. Holyoke Col-
lege

Younglove, Wm. K., Fitchburg

Younglove, Mrs. Wm. K., Fitchburg

Treasurer: ALBERT A. POLLARD
Secretary: GUY RICHARDSON
Counsel: PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY
& STOREY

Executive Committee

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY (ex-officio)
CHARLES G. BANCROFT
STANWOOD K. BOLTON
HON. CHANNING H. cox

V‘WALTER]M.KENDALL
WILLIAM E. PUTNAM

OUR DUMB 'ANIMALS

Trustees of Permanent Funds

John R. Macomber, Chairman of the Board,
First Boston Corporation

Charles G. Bancroft, Vice—President, United
Shoe Machinery Corporation

Philip Stockton, President of First Na-
tional Bank of Boston

Directors of the Massachusetts Society for

The Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

Dr. Francis H. Rowley, President

William Dana O‘rcutt
Hon. Joseph A. Sheehan
Miss Dorothy Forbes
Winthrop Packard
Charles G. Bancroft
John R. Forgie
William E. Putnam
John R. Macomber

W. J. McDonald

Walter M. Kendall
Stanwood K. Bolton
Hon. Channing H. Cox
Philip Stockton

Hon. Percival P. Baxter
George F. Booth
Thornton W. Burgess
George H. Godbeer
Edward G. Fischer

Mrs. Frederic A. Washburn

Honorary Members

Miss Ann Vogt Barnett, Delta, Pa.

Miss Hattie C. Bartley, Waltham

Mrs. Margaret P. Behrend, Wellesley

W. E. Bromage, Sutton, England

Mrs. Theodore Chase, Boston

Mrs. Miles M. Hapgood, Springﬁeld
Henry B. King, Augusta, Ga.

Lyndesay G. Langwill, Edinburgh, Scotland
CharlesN. Morgan, Boston

Mrs. Grace D. Proctor, Fitchburg

M. Franco Riccabone, Turin, Italy

Capt. Fergus MacCunn, London, England
Charles Rowland Johns, London, England
Miss Edith Ward, London, England

Col. Leonard Noble, Henley-on-Thames,

England

Active Life Members

Abercrombie, William H.

Adams, Mrs. Nancy M.
Allen, Mrs. Linda W.

Couch, Franklin Lindley
Craigin, Mrs. Louise
Crane, Mrs. Francis V.

Alstrom, Mrs. Dorothy D. Crocker, Mrs. Charles T.

Ames, John S.

Anderson, Johan M.

Andrews, Miss Frances
Virginia

Appleton, Miss Maude E.

Aronson, Harry
Atkins, Mrs. Charles D.
Bagg, Mrs. Aaron C.
Baker, Mrs. Charles M.
Baldwin, Mrs. Anita
Bancroft, Hugh, Jr.
Bancroft, Mrs. M. H.
Bandry, George, M.D.
Barnard, Henry F.

Crocker, Mrs. Emmons

Crocker, Emmons

Crocker, Miss Katherine

Crompton & Knowles
Loom Works

Crossman, Mrs. Howard A.

Crowninshield, B. B.

Cummings, Miss Florence
L.

Cummins, Miss Anne M.

Cummins, Miss Elizabeth
I.

Cunningham, Mrs. Flor-
ence C.

Barnard, MISS Mary Alice Curran, Mrs_ Maurice

Bartholomew, J. C.
Bartlett, Miss Bess B.
Bartley, Miss Hattie C.
Bates, Ruth B.

Beals, Mabel E.
Beardwood, James
Beardwood, Mrs. James

Curtis, Miss Amy

Curtis, Mrs. Ben Aldrich

Curtis, Miss Clara

Curtiss, Mrs. Frederic
Haines

Cutler, Mrs. Charles N.

Dane, E. B.

Behrend, Mrs. Margaret P.Dane, Mrs. E. B.

Bell, Mrs. Samuel Kent
Bolles, Mrs. Mary K.

Davis, Mrs. Kate K.'
Davol, Miss Florence W.

Boston Plate & Window Day, A. L.

Glass Co.
Bray, Miss Ella W.

Day,

Cordelia P. “Mem-
orial Life Membership”

Brown, Mrs. J. Frederick DeGogorza, Mme. Emma

Burke, Mrs. Florence E.
Burr, Mrs. Herman M.
Burr, I. Tucker

Cabot, Mrs. Susan
Chase, Miss Alice P.
Cheever, Mrs. Grace J.
Churchill, W. W.

Clark, Miss Elizabeth

Eames

DeWolf, Charles E.
Douglas, Elizabeth
Dresser, Miss Celina L.
Drooker, ‘Mrs. Minnie
Dudley, Miss Sarah A. '
Eldredge, Mrs. E. H.
Ellison, Eben H.

Cochran, Mrs. Edwin Paul Emerson, Charles H.
Codrington, Mrs. Ethel M. Endicott, Miss Katherine
Converse, Mrs. Costello C. Endicott, William

Corliss, Miss Clara K.

Ernst, Mrs. Harold C.

Evans, Owen N.

Ewing, Miss Amanda W.

Farley, Dr. Wm. C.

Fearing, Mrs. George R.

Fish, Miss Margaret A.

Fisher, H.

Fiske, Miss Gertrude

Floyd, Mrs. Edward E.

Forbes, Mrs. Alice H.

Foss, Mrs'. James 0.

Foster, G. Herbert

Fottler, Mrs. Jacob

Fowler, G. W.

Fowler, H. P.

Fowler, Madeleine H.

Frothingham, Mrs. Louis
A

Garritt, Miss Elizabeth M.
Gay, Mrs. Josephine S.
Geiger, Mrs. Albert, Jr.
Gifford, Josiah H.
Godbeer, George H.
Gray, Miss Elizabeth F.
Gray, Miss Ellen
Gray, Roland
Greenough, Mrs. Henry V.
Grinne-l, Mrs. Susan B.
Grout, Mrs. Zira R.
Grozier, Mrs. E. A.
Hale, Francis W.
Hammond, Samuel
Harrison, Mrs. Geo. B.
Hathaway, Mrs. C. P.
Hemenway, Augustus
Hemenway, Mrs. Augustus
Hemenway, Mrs. Myles
Henderson, Mrs. H. P.
Hickey, Mrs. J. .G.
Hickey, Miss Mary Moore
Higginson, Francis L.
Higginson, Mrs. Francis
L.
Hill, Miss Ella A.
Hill, Haven G.
Hitchcock, John
Holmes, Mrs. Margaret
A. Ramsay
Hooper, Mrs. James R.
Horsford, Miss Cornelia
Hotchkin, William C.
Houston, Ada Bell
Howard, Frank A.
Howes, Mrs. Ernest
Hoyt, Mrs. Frank C.
Hughes, Miss Ada F.
Huntington, Mrs. Amy
Low
Hutchinson, Mrs.
Ingersoll, W. Fitch
Innes, Charles H.
Jackson, Mrs. Ann Gavitt
Jacobs, Mrs. F. W.
James, Ellerton
Kaufman, Mrs. Carl F.
Kidder, Nathaniel T.
King, Miss Caroline W.
Kinzle, Mrs. Japsey
Lockett
Kittredge, Mrs. John
Krook, Mrs. Amanda J.
Lahey, Mrs. Frank H.
Langshaw,’ Walter H.
Lawrence, John S.
Lentz, Mrs. Eliza
Leonard, Mrs. Charles H.
Loring, Miss Helen
Loring, Mrs. Homer
Lyman, Miss Mabel
Lynch, Efﬁe M.
Mabbett, Mrs. H. Earle
MacDonald, Mrs. C. L.
MacNevin, Miss Agnes J.
Macomber, John R.
Mason, A. P., M.D.
Mason, Miss Nannie G.
Mayer, Richard
McDonald, Mrs. Wm. J.
McPherson, William J.
Mellor, Frank E.
Melvin, Mrs. Clara M.
Merrill, Sherburne M.
Milliken, Arthur N.
Milliken, Mrs. A. N. >
Morse, Mrs. Susan A.
Munsell. Alex. E. O.

Murdock, William L. .
Murray, Mrs. T. Morris

Newhall, Frederick H.
Niles, Irving Harris

Mabel

Page .45

Norcross, Grenville H.
Ogle, Mrs. Kate
Paine, Richard C.
Paine, Mrs. Richard G.
Parker, Miss Eleanor S.
Parker, William A.
Paul, Frank
Peirce, Miss Charlotte
Peirce, J. Gadget
Penniman, Miss Ella
Pfaﬁ‘, Mrs. Charles
Phelps, Mrs. Frances
Phillips, Mrs. Charles, :
E. H.
Pike, Mrs. Frank B.
Porter, Miss Frances R.
Powers, Thomas R.
Powers, Mrs. Thomas R.
Pratt, Mrs. Edmund T.
Putnam, Miss Florence N.
Queensbury Mills, Inc.
Quincy, Mrs. H. P.

Ravenscroft, Mrs. Henry

Rea, Charles S.

Redpath, Lide A.

Richards, Mrs. Sarah

Richardson, Mrs. Charles
F.

Riley, Charles E.

Riley, Miss Mabel Louise

Rivette, Mrs. Josephine P.
Roberts, Paul B

Robertson, Mrs. M. W.
Robinson, Forrest
Robinson, William A., Jr.
Rockwell, Mrs. C. P.
Rogers, Bradlee
Rountree, Mrs. H. H.
Rowe, EQJ. “
Rowe, Mrs. E. J.
Sampson, Mrs. R. deW.
Schaltenbrand, Miss E. L.
Sears, Miss Eleanora Ran-
dolph
Sedgwick, Mrs. Lydia C.
Shapleigh, Amelia
Shaw, Samuel
Sias, Mrs. Alice E.
Silsbee, Mrs. George S.
Simonds, Otis
Singleton, Mrs. Annie M.
Sisco, Mrs. Claire C.
Sloan, Mrs. E. S.
Smith, Mrs. Ida A.
Snow, Miss Louise
Spaulding, Mrs. Harriet M.
Spring, John C.
Stewart, Miss Gertrude M.
Storrow, Mrs. James J.
Jr.
Symmes, Mrs. Henry W.
Taylor, Mrs. John Phelps
Thayer, Mrs. E. R.
Thissell, Mrs. Gertrude M.
Thompson, Miss Mary
Helen
Thorn, Mrs. Mary
Thurber, Mrs. C. H.
Tolfree, Edw. R.
Tower, Miss Florence E.
Travelli, Mrs. Charles I.
Twombly, John Fogg
Underwood, Miss Mary R.
Underwood, Miss Sophia
A.
Upham, Miss E. Annie
Valentine, Mrs. Grace E.
Walker, John B.
Ward, Miss M. DeC.

Waterman, Mrs. Charles H.

Webster, Ruth E.
West, Miss Edith E.
Whitman, Hendrick H.

Whitney, Mrs. Geoffrey G.

Wilkes, Mrs. Madge
Wilkinson, Edw. S.
Williams, Mrs. E. S.
Wilson, Miss Helen L.
Winkley, H. W.

Wood, Cornelius A.
Wood, Miss Rosalind
Wood, Mrs. William M.
Woodman, Miss Mary
Wright, Mrs. Eva Edgar
Young, MrsmB. L.
Young, Percy L.
Younglove, Mrs. Wm. K.
Younglove, William K.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

,Mar, 1937

0 UR D UM-a ANIMALS

Be Kind to Animals Week, April 12-17
Humane Sunday, April 11, 1937

Exercises for Humane
Day in Schools

Teachers to be Supplied with
Be Kind to Animals Helps

CCORDING to its usual cus—

tom the Massachusetts S. P.
C. A. will issue a new special leaﬂet
of eight pages, with suggestive exer—
cises, for free distribution to teach—
_ ers in schools of the state for use on
Humane Day in Sch-001s, April 16
(or most convenient date). Individu—
als and Societies outside of MasSa-
‘ chusetts, wishing to make use of this
literature in quantities, will be pro—
vided with copies at cost if they
apply early to 180 Longwood Av-
enue, Boston.

Samples of this leaﬂet and of the
pamphlets listed on. inside cover
page of this number will be mailed
free, also reprints of this page, to
those who will use them.

New Humane Play

The title_is “Boots’ Day.” It re-
fers to a dog whom the landlord did
not intend to accept as a tenant

 

 

 

until something happened which
caused him to change his mind.
There are ﬁve characters, two boys
‘ and three girls. The running time

Prizes for Best Humane
Essays

Two Prizes of Equal Value Offered
by Humane Education Society

N connection with the annual Be

Kind to Animals observance, the
American Humane Education So—
ciety, 180 Longwood Avenue, Bos-
ton, oﬂ‘ers a cash prize of $25 for the
best original essay of not more than
1,000 words, presenting “Arguments
for the Zoo,” and an equal prize of
$25, cash, for the best essay, not ex-
ceeding 1,000 words, presenting
“Arguments. against the Zoo,” re-
ceived not later than May 15, 1937.
However, if, in the opinion of the
judges, no essays submitted are
deemed worthy, the prizes will not
be awarded.

Those intending to compete should
note carefully the following condi-
tions:

All MSS. must be typewritten,
on one side of the page only, with
the name and full address of the
author in the upper corner of the
ﬁrst page of text, and mailed, post-
age fully prepaid, to reach

Essay Contest Editor
American Humane Education Society

 

 

AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY

180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

180 Longwood Avenue
Boston, Mass.

not later than May 15, 1937.

 

. is about ﬁfteen minutes. This was

the play, written» by Eva. Brinker, which
won the ﬁrst prize of $25, cash, in .last
year’s Be Kind to Animals Week contest
.conducted by the American Humane Edu-
;cation Society. It is now published for the
ﬁrst time, and is adapted to pupils of gram—
mar grades. Single copies, 2 cents; ﬁve
copies for ten cents. Free sample to teach-
ers or to humane society ofﬁcers.

Helps for Humane Sunday

A new 2-page leaﬂet of helpful hints and
quotations for use in connection with Hu-
mane Sunday (April 11, 1937) has been
prepared by the American Humane Educa-
tion Society, Boston. It contains a Special
article, “The Minister’s Attitude Toward
vHumane Sunday,” written for the Society
by the Reverend Charles W. Jeffras, D. D.,
of Wesley M. E. Church, Springﬁeld, Mass.
Dr. Jeffras is a former president of the
Humane Society in Melrose, Mass. There
{are other suggestions to meet the needs of
those who wish to present the subject in
church or church school. This leaﬂet will
be mailed in quantities at the rate of $1.00
per 100 copies. Samples free to all inter-
ested. ,

Advertise BE KIND TO ANIMALS
WEEK and HUMANE SUNDAY by using
blotters announcing the dates for this year.
They are in assorted colors, 6 x 314 inches.
and are sold by the American Humane Edu-
cation Society at 50 cents per 100, postpaid.

Humane Poster for 1937

HE picture above is a reproduction of
the new national humane poster, de—
signed by Morgan Dennis, the artist to
whom we are indebted for the very effec-
tive humane posters of the past several
years. This entirely new poster, with the
ﬁgures in black and white against a back-
ground of red, should prove to be very
acceptable to schools and other institutions
for display not only in connection with Be
Kind to Animals Week, but also at any time.
The size is the same as before, 17 by
22 inches. Orders should be placed at once
to avoid possible disappointment.

Copies bearing the imprint of the Ameri-
can Humane Education Society, 180 Long—
wood Avenue, Boston, are for sale at these
prices, postpaid: Single, 10 cts., three for
25 cts., eight for 50 cts., twenty for $1, sev-
enty for $3, 125 for $5, and may be ordered
from the Society. Orders for larger quan-
tities, however, and all others requiring
special imprints, should be sent to the
American Humane Association, 80 Howard
Street, Albany, N. Y.

Easter Chick Cards

We have a new edition of the post—card,
“A Cruel Easter Practice,” for distribution
where little chicks are kept conﬁned for
Easter sales. Attractive illustration. Ten
cents per dozen, postpaid to any address.

 

N0 MSS. Will be returned un-
less a self-addressed stamped envelope
is enclosed.

Essays receiving prizes, with rights of
copyright, will become the sole property of
Our Dumb Animals. Other essays may be
purchased, if desired, on terms to be
arranged.

The judges will be persons of recognized

"literary ability, selectedf‘by the editors of

Owr Dumb Animals, whose decisions must
be accepted as ﬁnal and" may not be an-
nounced until one month after the contest
closes.

Humane Sunday Lecture

Those who are planning to ‘ attend the
lecture, under the auspices of the Mass-
achusetts S. P. C. A., on “Friendly Folk
in Fur and Feathers,” by Mr. Thornton
W. Burgess, in the lecture hall of the
Boston Public Library, Copley Square,
Sunday, April 11, at 8 P. M., are reminded
that the doors will be open at 6:30 and
will be closed when the lecture begins or
when the hall is filled. As the Public Li-
brary lectures are always free to all, it
often happens that the hall is filled by‘
7:30 or earlier. Mr. Burgess, who pre
sents both slides and ﬁlms to illustrate
his lecture, will doubtless attract a large
audience. To avoid disappointment, those
who wish to hear him and to see his
pictures should be on hand early in the
evening.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

Oct. 1937

Live Bait in Fishing
JOHN F. LEWIS

Y instinct and inclination I have been

a ﬁsherman for the sport I get out of it
since my barefooted, boyhood days when I
trudged to a sizable creek or pond to
gratify my craving for this form of amuse-
ment.

Today, past middle life, I occasionally in-
dulge in the pastime, but in recent years
there has developed within me a growing
revolt against cruelties inseparable from
ﬁshing. This feeling has increased to the
point where I no longer use live bait. If
artiﬁcial bait does not serve the occasion
when I fare forth for a certain species
which fails to bite, I absolutely refuse to
impale any living thing on the barb and
try for another kind.

And yet this stand or attitude does not
by any means wholly satisfy my troubled
conscience, or banish the haunting thought
of the suffering I am preparing to cause
when I pick up my rod for a day’s outing.
That is because my revolt against cruelty
to live bait has not progressed to include
the ﬁsh I aim to hook. But maybe in a few
years I will conclude that ﬁshing for sport
is no longer to my taste.

Believe me when I say this is not preach—
ing, nor is it intended in any sense as an
argument against ﬁshing for amusement’s
sake. It is merely a record of an odd and
perplexing change which has come over me
slowly and without conscious encourage-
ment. No doubt there are thousands of
others who have been or are going through
the same experience.

Several years ago while bass ﬁshing, I
observed my hand jump when I drove a
hook through the back, of a minnow, care-
fully avoiding a vital spot, for it was to be
submerged alive as a lure to the ﬁsh I
sought. On the next trip to the same pool
I felt a slight reluctance to plunge the barb
into the struggling bait, still gave the mat—
ter no thought.

For years that need no counting I had
done this without a qualm, even eagerly and
feverishly as I contemplated the sport ahead.
Earthworms, hellgrammites and grass-
hoppers also were as indiﬂ’erently put to the
torture by me when they were more service-
able for the occasion. The repugnance
against causing this cruel and, in my case,
unwarranted suffering, grew almost imper-
ceptibly, but it grew to full ﬂower and that
practice is today but a memory.

Many of us who wring our hands in
horror when a horse, dog gr eat is mis-
treated, view with utmost complacency the
impaling of a worm on a hook or shout
with glee when a ﬁsh is brought struggling
to the surface on a punishing barb. It is a
contradiction, to say the least.

And yet I am a ﬁsherman still, likely to
be for years to come, and would never dis—
courage any one, young or old, who indulges
freely in this sport.

Scatter your kind words broadcast. They
are the best alms you will ever be privi-
leged to give to anybody.

Compassion is the response of the hu-
man soul to the appeal of every living
thing in its hour of need.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

The Electric Eel

GRACE BROOKS POPKINS

F you go bathing in South American

waters and get an electric shock, don’t
think you have stepped on a live wire.
Very likely it is the electric eel. This mon-
ster of the deep, with a tail six times longer
than his body, has the ability to “shock”
his living food to death.

This eel is a native of the rivers and
swamps of Brazil and the Guianas. It will
emit electric currents of such force that it
kills small ﬁsh and sometimes large ones in
its immediate vicinity. The shock from the
eel has been known to knock a man eight
feet. In the aquarium in New York City,
a specimen of this eel has been known to
generate enough electricity in one attack to
light a two-watt bulb. Just how powerful
this charge is can be realized from the fact
that it takes eighty-ﬁve volts to light such
a bulb. This same eel also supplied the
spark that blew a police siren and started
an airplane engine.

It is only when the eel has used this
faculty frequently that its electric powers
become impaired. The natives take advan—
tage of this fact in capturing the ﬁsh by
driving large numbers of horses into
streams where they abound. When the
ﬁsh have exhausted their electricity by re-
peated attacks on the horses they are easily
taken.

The electric eel is approximately six feet
long, but only about eleven inches of this
footage constitutes the body of the reptile.
All of his organs except the “batteries” that
store up his mysterious energy, are con—
tained in this small section.

From the tip of the eel’s mouth to the
end of the body portion he is a brilliant
pinkish orange in color on his under side.
From the point where the tail begins to
its tip, almost six feet away, he is a grayish
green, slightly speckled on the under side
with gray dots, like a brook trout but more
sparingly. Likewise from the end of his
body to the tip of his tail on the under
side there runs a ribbon of loose green
ﬂesh, a perfect rufﬂe almost two inches wide
that undulates with his every movement.

Page 155

Trespassers
HARRY ELMORE HURD

Two fawns are following a doe
Across the velvet of my farm—

My heart leaps with them as they go;
I hope they do not come to harm.

My cabbages have been destroyed—
Devoured completely by the deer;
I am sufficiently annoyed
To give the raiders cause to fear.

I am the owner of this land,
Let trespassers beware of me;
They should be made to understand
The sacredness of property.

They will return when apples fall;
November days are drawing near;
My rifle hangs upon the wall
But I shall leave it there this year.

“Ode to a Nightingale”

In the spring of 1819 a nightingale had
built her nest near my house. Keats felt
a tranquil and continual joy in her song,
and one morning he took his chair from the
breakfast-table to the grass-plot under a
plum—tree, where he sat for two or three
hours. When he came into the house, I per-
ceived he had some scraps of paper in his
hand, and these he was quietly thrusting
behind the books. On inquiry, I found those
scraps, four or ﬁve in number, contained his
poetic feeling on the song of our nightin—
gale. The writing was not well legible; and
it was difﬁcult to arrange the stanzas on
so many scraps. With his assistance I suc-
ceeded, and this was his “Ode to a Nightin-
gale,” a poem which has been the delight
of every one. Immediately afterwards I
searched for more of his (in reality) fugi-
tive pieces, in which task, at my request,
he again assisted me. Thus I rescued that
ode and other valuable short poems, which
might otherwise have been lost. From that
day he gave me permission to copy any
verses he might write.

CHARLES ARMITAGE BROWN

 

GOOD PASTURE IS A PRIME

ESSENTIAL IN SHEEP RAISING

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

    

GLORY TO
GOD,

g PEACE ON EARTH,

z KINDNESS, JUSTICE 0

AND MERCY 'ro lb

- EVERY LIVING

CREATURE.

 
   
     

     
   

Founded by Geo. T. Angell Incorporated 1889

For rates of membership in both of our Societies
see back cover. Checks should be made payable to
Treasurer.

Ofﬁcers of the American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds
JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First
Boston Corporation
CHARLES G. BANGROFT, Vice-President, United Shoe
Machinery Corporation
PHILIP STOCKTON, President, First National Bank of
Boston

Foreign Corresponding Representatives

George B. Duff ................... Australia
Luis Pareja Cornejo ............... Ecuador
Charles A. Williams .............. France
Leonard T. Hawksley ............. Italy
Mrs. Mary P. E. Nitobe .......... Japan
Mrs. Marie C. E. Houghton ....... Madeira
Dr. A. T. Ishkanian .............. Mexico
Joaquin Julia ..................... Spain
Mrs. Alice W. Manning ........... Turkey

Humane Press Bureau

Edith Washburn Clarke, Secretary
180 Longwood Ave., Boston

Field Workers of the Society

Mrs. Alice L. Park, Palo Alto, California
Mrs. Jennie R. Nichols, Tacoma, Washington
James D. Burton, Harriman, Tennessee
Mrs. Katherine Weathersbee, Atlanta, Georgia
Miss Blanche Finley, Richmond. Virginia
Rev. F. Rivers Barnwell, Fort Worth, Texas
Rev. John W. Lemon, Ark, Virginia

Miss Lucia F. Gilbert, Boston, Massachusetts
Mrs. Jennie R. Toomim, Chicago, Illinms
Seymour Carroll, Columbia, South Carolina
Rev. R. E. Griffith, De Land, Florida

Mrs.

Field Representative
Wm. F. H. Wentzel, M. 8., Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

Field Lecturer in Massachusetts
Ella A. Maryott

SUMMARY OF ACTIVITIES OF FIELD
WORKERS FOR AUGUST, 1937

Number of Bands of Mercy formed, 7
Number of addresses made, 112

Number of persons in audiences, 13,595

Invest in Annuity Bonds

HE Annuity Bonds of our two Soci-

eties are absolutely safe and yield a
return according to one’s age. They make
their appeal ordinarily to people over 40
years of age. Send the coupon for a free
folder which gives full details.

The Massachusetts S. P. C. A. (or)
The American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Ave., Boston, Mass.

Without obligation to me, please send me
the folder about your Annuity Bonds.
Name

Age

.................................

..................................

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

Oct. 1937

Be Kind to Animals Day Reaches Madeira

 

KINDNESS DAY AT THE S. P. C. A. HOSPITAL, FUNCHAL, MADEIRA

Many school children were assembled to see ﬁlms presented for their beneﬁt. A re-
ception followed, attended by the Governor and other dignitaries.

The Society handled 159 cases of cruelty to animals last year. It has become
afﬁliated with the Royal S. P. C. A., London, in order to have a voice in the larger
issues of international work. A generous gift was received during the year for pre-
paring text-books on humane education to be used in the schools of the island. Mrs.
Marie C. E. Houghton, director of the Funchal Society, is most active in establishing
contacts with English-speaking and other foreign organizations and deserves much
credit'for introducing modern methods that have made the Madeira Society, though
small, outstanding among Portuguese humane enterprises.

 

The Georgia Mules
Once More

We have made several appeals for a
colored school in Georgia whose team of
faithful old mules should be at once retired.
The school feels unable to spend the $400
or $450 for a younger pair to take their
place. Unless enough money is raised for
this new team, the money given will have
to be returned to those who have con-
tributed. We are appealing once more. At
least $200 will be needed.

We have just received a request from N.
B. Matta, president of the Oriental Humane
Education Association in the Near East,
at Merjayoun, Lebanon, to extend the
thanks of that organization to those hu—
mane societies which responded so gener-
ously to their appeal for ﬁnancial aid.

When you see any creature abused, don’t
fail to protest earnestly but kindly against
such cruelty.

O O
O

In 1753 Benjamin Franklin wrote to a
friend: “In New England they once thought
blackbirds useless, and mischievous to the
corn. They made efforts to destroy them.
The consequence was, the blackbirds dimin-
ished, but a kind of worm which devoured
their grass, and which the blackbirds used
to feed upon, increased prodigiously; then,
ﬁnding their loss in grass greater than
their gain in corn, they wished again for
the blackbirds.”

Animals in the Movies

Here is an editorial from The Golden
Age:

Animals in the movies are real sufferers.
Running horses are tripped by wires,
thrown over the cliffs, and mutilated.
Lions are forced to roar, by electric shocks
from wire-meshed ﬂoors. Turpentine is in-
jected into goats’ ears to make them dance.
Dogs are stirred to activity by pepper
under the tongue, or caustic sublimate on
the neck, or alum in the nostrils. In “The
Ten Commandments” four thousand ani-
mals were used, and many horses were
lamed. In “Trader Horn” ﬁghts were
fought in narrow compounds, where ani-
mals were roused to frenzy by hunger,
thirst and knife thrusts.

Join the Jack London Club—no oﬂ‘icers;
no dues—and help to stop these cruelties.
Write to 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, for
full particulars.

Animal Clinic in Athens

From a correspondent in Athens, Greece,
the Animals’ Friend, London, reports:
“After eleven months’ delay due to legal
and technical difﬁculties, Mr. Hurle of the
People’s Dispensaries for the sick animals
of the poor, opened on June 1, his clinic at
the Dogs’ Refuge of the Athenian S. P. C.
A. Already numerous animals have been
brought there for cure. The Dogs’ Refuge
is being re-organized. This year prizes for
the best horses, donkeys and mules will be
awarded.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 68

Trap-Line Tragedies
MINA M. TITUS

A “spring pole’s” low—bent sapling flips
Then mangled in its snare

A beaver, weighed with unborn young,
Hangs moaning, helpless there.

Beside the marsh grass’ roof of ice
A trapped mink gnaws and gnaws
Through swollen. flesh and shattered bone
To freedom from steel jarws.

Wee, anguished, suﬂering ball of fur,
He crawls oﬂ through the night

On two good paws, two bleeding stumps . . .
O piteous, tragic sight!

Beneath a deep woods’ canopy,
Where lacing branches rub,

A mother bear stands by to nurse
Her trapped and crying cub.

Watching a Trained Dog

To Our Dumb Animals:

ECENTLY, here in Washington, at a

well—known theater, I attended a
vaudeville performance. During the eve—
ning, a man appeared on the program with
a trained dog. A beautiful sleek brown
creature of undetermined breed, somewhat
like a police dog, but much smaller.

I have always been averse to exploiting
trained animals, but this, without doubt,
was the most heart-breaking performance I
ever saw. The man appeared ﬁrst, then
upon the stage came a woman clad in eve-
ning gown and a long velvet cape with a
brown fur collar draped about her neck.
Both hands were raised, clasping the fur
loosely as it dangled limply like the typical
fur neckpiece. The man then approached
and removed the neckpiece and, to my
horror, it was a dog! Then began the so-
called performance. The dog had been so
cowed into submission to that man’s will
that it was like watching one of those dis—
tressing exhibitions of hypnotism where
even a human being is made almost inhuman
and is left spent and exhausted. The dog
was made to go
as limp and life-
less as a dead
dog; was bent
double, in which
position he re-
mained while his
master accepted
the applause of
the audience.
Then the animal.
was pulled slowly
off the table until
only his head re-
mained at the
chin, the dog
clinging on, thus
and giving no sign
of life; then he
was laid back on
the table and
placed in tortur—
ing positions by
the deft turn of
the man’s hand

and he remained Photo by Nicolas

OUR DUJWB

ANIMALS

in that position until the hand made an-
other change. There was much more of
the “dead dog” performance. Then came
the usual tricks of holding the dog aloft,
standing and balancing himself on his
front paws on the hands of the man.

During all this, a glaring spot-light was
focused on the helpless animal. A great
applause came at the end, and the pair re-
turned, the dog obviously too tired to move,
so slowly he walked back into that merciless
light. Then he was made to jump rope. I
thought of the long torturing hours that
little fellow must have endured, while there
we sat, we humans, laughing, applauding,
asking for more. I felt ashamed and de—
graded. Is there no law to prevent such
cruel exhibitions? If not, it is high time
something was done about it.

MRS. G. C. GARDNER
1900 H St., N.W., Washington, D.C.

Co-operation Among
Animals
D O R I S BAL TE S

HE war of tOOth and claw” and “the

survival of the ﬁt” are man—made
phrases that have served sometimes to jus—
tify man’s own competitive existence. But
there is another side to animal life from
which a more proﬁtable and humane lesson
may be learned. That is the co-operation
and mutual aid practised among the ani-
mals.

The community life of the honey—gather—
ing bee, the co-operation around a busy ant
colony, and the mutual aid among the vil-
lage—building beavers, are fairly well known,
but there are many other types of animal
life in which mutual aid is highly in evi-
dence. Who has watched a wedge—shaped
ﬂock of birds migrating northward or
southward. and not been impressed with its
perfect example of co-operation? Who,
having heard the cry of the lone bird lost
from the ﬂock on the way, has not sensed
its helplessness? And there are reports
from many naturalists of ﬂocks turning
back to pick up the lost bird. That seems

 

THREE OF THE McCLEERY PACK OF THIRTY—ONE, ONLY LOBO (BUFFALO)
\VOLVES IN THE WORLD, KANE, PA.

Courtesy Pennsylvania Outdoors

May, 1937

to be mutual aid in the highest degree
known among the lower animals.

Reindeers of the north travel in great
herds for mutual protection; wild horses
and buffaloes that once ranged our western
plains did the same; prairie dogs lived to-
gether in communities, warning each other
by shrill cries at the approach of enemies;
Rocky Mountain sheep herd in small bands,
posting sentinels while the-y rest or feed;
vast assemblages of sea birds combine to
drive off hawks and eagles, and in the lonely
spaces they occupy on islands far out at
sea or on rocky coast lands, we seem to see
in these assemblages also a protection
against loneliness. One could go on nam—
ing examples of co—operation almost end—
lessly among birds, ﬁshes, insects, mam—
mals; in fact there is hardly an animal
that does not show some degree of mutual
aid among its own type.

It is between different types of animals
that the war of tooth and claw exists, and
the-n it seems not to be merely for the sake
of killing but rather as a means of exist-
ence. We see co—operation then in the
aggression of one type against another. Peli—
cans have been watched, ﬁshing by forming
a wide half circle facing the shore and
narrowing it as they paddled toward land,
catching the ﬁsh they thus enclosed; other
animals ban-d together for mutual aggres-
sion, even the wolves hunting in packs.

There are, of course, instances of ﬁghting
among types: buck deers have fought to
the death over a doe, and we have seen
roosters ﬁght and occasionally a pair of
horses that will not team together, but on
the whole there seems to be less dishar-
mony between the lower animals of the
same type than between man and man.

It is especially to be noted that those
types of animals which have co-operated in
the highest degree are most successful in
the struggle for existence. Although the
ant is one of the most defenseless of crea—
tures, it is one of the most numerous and
widespread geographically. It lives by busy
co—operation with its fellow ant, not by war
among its own kind.

“Blessed are the merciful.”

Read Jack Lon—
don’s “Michael
Brother of J erry,”
mailed, post free,
to any address
upon receipt of
price, 75 cents.
The Jack London
Club is built on it.
The present mem-
bership is 681,399,
all pledged to do
everything p o s-
sible to stop the
cruelty attendant
upon trick animal
stage perform-
ances. Will you
join it? No dues.
Write for full in—
formation to 180
Longwood Avenue,
Boston.

 

 

 




 

M ar.‘ 1937

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

II

Page 43

The American Humane Education Society

ciety carries on its work through two

outstanding vehicles—the spoken word
and the printed page. When we say that
during 1936 there were 582,431 persons,
over half a million, who listened to some
3,414 addresses by our field representatives,
and that a total of more than 220,000 pieces
of literature, from a card to a bound book,
were given away by the Society, we have
summed up in a sentence the chief points
of the report which follows. We cannot
stress too strongly the importance of the
close co-Operation of the Society with the
Parent-Teacher Association, one of our
field workers being the national chairman
of humane education for that great or—
ganization of a million and a half mem—
bers, while four more of our workers are
active state chairmen. The Society is in
close touch with all the representatives of
the Parent—Teacher group who are promot—
ing humane education, and constantly re—
sponds to calls for literature, exhibits, and
other helps.

Fourteen men and women represent the
American Humane Education Society as
field workers throughout the United States,
the most of them being employed through-
out the year. From their annual reports
we present the following summaries, often
inadequate because so greatly condensed:

In New England and New York

Miss Gilbert spent April and May vis-
iting schools in Yonkers, N. Y., where she
organized 495 Bands of Mercy. During
the autumn she traveled through fifteen of
the school unions in rural Maine, resulting
in the organization of 318 Bands of Mercy.
She received the full co—operation of Dr.
Packard, State Commissioner of Education,
who sent out letters to all the superintend-
ents, calling attention to Miss Gilbert’s
work, and of the superintendents them—

T HE American Humane Education So-

selves who accompanied her to the schools,
often in places not easily accessible.

In Massachusetts Miss Maryott visited
Fall River, Fitchburg, Chelsea, Somerville,
Dedham, Cambridge, Boston, Hamilton,
Wenham, Lynnfield and Topsfield, where
she gave 145 illustrated talks in the schools,
reaching 33,875 pupils and 979 adults, and
organized 880 Bands of Mercy. She con—
ducted a booth for the distribution of hu-
mane literature to teachers at a two—day
exhibit in Quincy.

In Pennsylvania and Illinois

Mr. Wentzel, with headquarters in Pitts-
burgh, traveled 7,700 miles and gave 138
addresses before audiences aggregating 35,-
000. He formed 78 Bands of Mercy with
a total membership of 6,700. While in
Houston, Texas, attending the annual Hu—
mane Convention, he found opportunity to
speak before colored students in two large
colleges. He held a special display of lit—
erature, with, free distribution, at Teachers’
College, Slippery Rock, Pa., and at other
conventions of Parent-Teacher Associations.

In Chicago Mrs. Toomim visited 118
schools, including the largest elementary
school in the country, and formed 1,700
Bands of Mercy with an enrollment of 68,—
349 pupils. She also addressed various as—
semblies, reaching more than 2,000 adults.
She was responsible for securing a Be Kind
to Animals Week proclamation from Gov-
ernor Horner, for the distribution through
the Illinois Humane Society of 4,000 copies
of “Humane Exercises” for use on Humane
Day in Chicago sch-001s, and for much press
and radio publicity in connection with the
annual observance of the Week. Through—
out the year the two films, “In Behalf of
Animals” and “The Bell of Atri” were ex—
hibited to enthusiastic school audiences.
Mrs. Toomim has received authority from

the Superintendent of County Schools to
carry on humane education work there.

Our Work with the Parent-Teacher
Group

Mrs. Nichols traveled 26,000 miles in her
work as national chairman of humane edu-
cation for the Parent—Teacher Association.
She prepared plans and directed the activi-
ties of chairmen in thirty—one states, ad-
dressed conferences in Honolulu, Hawaii;
San Diego and Riverside, California; J ack-
sonville, Florida; Toledo, Ohio; and in her
own state of Washington; and held inter—
views with representatives of the press
which resulted in considerable national pub—
licity for humane education.

Among Both Races in Virginia

Miss Finley finds her most satisfactory
results in the white schools of the rural
districts, many of which were revisited in
the fall. She sent out quantities of litera-
ture for Be Kind to Animals Week in re-
sponse to requests from all sections of the
state. She held successful humane exhibits,
and sponsored a number of contests in
schools of Richmond as well as in various
counties. Her services are aptly illustrated
by an amusing incident when she stopped
to talk with a woman, plodding along under
the weight of a large bag of ﬂour and pro—
visions, on an isolated mountain road, who
said to her: “I don’t ’member yo’ name but
I do ’member ’very word you speeched that
last time you cum over the mountain.”

In his work among the colored schools
and churches Mr. Lemon traveled 9,517
miles in Virginia,. organized 288 Bands of
Mercy, gave 213 school talks and 60 adult
addresses to audiences totaling 27,498 chil-
dren and adults; and held humane exhibits
at Hampton» Institute and various other re-
ligious and educational conferences.

 

is in charge of the Farm’s Assistant Super-
intendent, a graduate mechanic who is an
expert in his knowledge of cars and how to
keep them at their best. Here all our cars,
ambulances and farm machinery, including
trucks, tractors, plows, harrows, etc., are
kept in repair. Connected with the garage,
on the second floor, is also a complete car-
penter shop by means of which all the re-
pairs in carpentering, plumbing and electric
work connected with the farm buildings and
the four dwelling houses are taken care of.

The Women’s Auxiliary

Among the most helpful friends of the
Society have been the three Women’s Aux—
iliaries, the one connected with our Hospi—
tal here in Boston, the one in Springﬁeld,
and the one in Winchester. The deeply in-
terested and loyal women have through
their activities not only greatly widened the
knowledge of the Society’s work among
large groups of women throughout the
state, becoming afﬁliated with the state or-

ganization of Women’s Clubs, but by their
fairs, hospitality days and other gatherings
contributed generously toward the better
equipment of the Hospitals.

Financial

The Society is profoundly grateful to all
those members and friends and benefactors
who have made it possible for it year by
year to enlarge its work. In spite of a
deﬁcit of $38,848.84 in receipts from the
Angell Memorial Hospital and the Spring-
ﬁeld Branch, due to uncollectible bills and
the free service rendered to those unable to
pay, we closed the year with but a slight
difference between current receipts and ex-
penses, the total current receipts being
$315,841.75 and the expenses $316,431.82.

FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

REPORT OF CHIEF OFFICER

The work of the Prosecuting Department
of the Society during the year has consisted

principally in bringing before the courts
certain ﬂagrant cases of failure to feed and
provide proper shelter for livestock, and vio-
lations of the laws in respect to the driving
and working of lame and galled horses.
These involved «a. score of offenders. The
stoning and shooting of other animals neces-
sitated several court cases. Other offenses
requiring court action were the throwing of
a dog in the river and preventing its
escape, the throwing of a dog through a
window, and the hurling of an axe at a
stray dog and destroying one of its eyes.
One man was heavily ﬁned for allowing a
sick horse to die without any care whatever.

Our humane ofﬁcers have adhered to the
principle, whenever and wherever possible,
that it is better to convert men from cruelty
than to convict them in courts, and that the
test of a Society’s usefulness is not the num-
ber of its prosecutions, but the number of
acts of cruelty it is able to prevent.

L. WILLARD WALKER, Chief Officer

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

Page 180

Why Do We Slay?

ELLA C. FORBES

I’l'hy do we slay the timid and the helpless;
The little fellows of the forest floor?

l’Vith every silky fur that reaches market
A mounting debt is laid against our door.

Oh, man, shall we not pause to think it
over?
Where is the freedom we, as man, should
give?
Their right to life and pleasure in the wood—
lands;
Shall we not stack our guns, and let them
live?

In piteous appeal the soft eyes darken;
We do not heed; the proﬁt makes us blind.

The lure of gold incites us to the killing,
'And so we slaughter all that we can ﬁnd.

Why do we slay, till these, our younger
brothers,
Are ﬁlled wth terror at our passing by,
And the green lanes stand witness to the
evil;
The frenzied struggle and the tortured
cry.

So down the years of Fashion’s heartless
ruling,
The ruthless sacriﬁce which man has
willed,
God hear the little voices of the forest,
God heed the little bodies that are stilled.

Fox Hunt

MAY ALLREAD BAKER

He races over the tangled grass,

Where the hazel shrubs grow thick;
And behind, the foe,

Men and steeds, I know,

With hounds that are keen and quick.

And on, and on, while his laboring breath

Comes fast, and hard and Sit/Till,

For the lead hounds bay,

As he seeks his way

To his den in a rock-strewn hill.

His tongue lolls out; and his eyes are
dim;

With his lungs near bursting now;

But he gains the crest

0f the hill, sore pressed,

He’s struggling over the brow!

He scrambles over! A frantic leap——
And he wins to his rocky den!

I laugh aloud

At the luckless crowd.~

Brave for! You have won again.

Read Jack London’s “Michael Brother of
Jerry,” mailed, post free, to any address
upon receipt of price, 75 cents. The Jack
London Club is built on it. The present
membership is 790,684 all pledged to do
everything possible to stop the cruelty at-
tendant upon, trick animal stage perform-
ances. Will you join it? No dues. Write
full information to 180 Longwood
Avenue, Boston.

for

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Open Hunting Season

ERE are two men, whom for con-
venience, we will call the Owner and

the Gunner.

The Owner owns an estate of many acres,
on which he pays heavy taxes and other
necessary expenses. In order to protect
the wild life on his estate, which he highly
values, both on account of its economic and
aesthetic value, he goes to considerable
extra expense each year to post his land in
order to keep out the trespassing hunters.

Some ﬁne morning, early in October, he
is awakened by a fusillade of shots, and
then he remembers that the open hunting
season is here once more. His favorite dog,
who is afraid of gun shots, slinks into the
house, the house cat takes refuge behind
the kitchen stove. The wife and children
hardly dare to venture out of doors, for
fear they may catch some of the stray shots.

The Gunner also awakens early on the
ﬁrst day of the open hunting season. He
doesn’t own any land, but you might think
from his looks and actions that he owned
the earth. So at break of day he shoulders
his gun and starts off. He comes to the
Owner’s possessions, where he ﬁnds his
progress stopped by a stone wall, so he
pushes over a gap in the wall and gives
the owner’s cattle a chance to get into the
road, and become a target for some “hit
and run driver.”

He sees an animal moving among the
thick bushes and catches sight of its red-
dish brown hair, thinks it may be a fox and
ﬁres at it, and a collie dog runs yelping
out of the bushes, who had received a few
buck. shot in his side. He sees a bird with
a long bill picking round on the ground
and thinks it may be a woodcock, though
he has never seen one of those rare birds.
Fires at it and by chance kills a ﬂicker.
And so it goes “through all the livelong
day” and “now the day is over, night is
drawing nigh” as our hero plods his home-
ward way, thinking over the thrilling
events of his day of recreation. He has “in
the bag” one gray squirrel, one chipmunk,
one ﬂicker. Just how many wounded birds
and animals he has left along his war path,
he doesn’t know.

Now if you will multiply this public pest
that I have described by 6,000,000 or 7,000,-

l
l

A FAMILY OF MOOSE ON THE RANCH OF MRS. K. C. ALLEN, DUBOIS, WY-
OMING. SHE PROVIDES FOOD FOR THE WILD ANIMALS DURING THE
WINTER MONTHS

Dec. 1937

000, the number of hunting licenses granted
each year in this country, and many of the
holders of those licenses kill vastly more
than this gunner, you will get a little idea
of what a public nuisance the open hunting
season has become.

Well, what can we do about it? some
one asks. There are several things that we
can do to reduce the nuisance, even if we
can’t yet exterminate it altogether. We can
have an open hunting season of three or
four days, instead of three or four weeks,
as we now have in many cases, and in many
places. That would be a great help in re-
ducing the period of the bombardment, and
then put the cost of hunting licenses and
ﬁrearms and ammunition up so high that
no one will want to pay the price.

Applicants for a license to drive an auto-
mobile are subjected to an examination to
test their ﬁtness. Let the applicant for a
hunting license be tested as to his ability
to handle ﬁrearms safely.

Best of all would be to abolish that relic
of barbarism, the open hunting season, for
good and all. If we expect to have any wild
life left in this country we must do some-
thing and do it right away, before it is all
exterminated.

So let us all get together, bird clubs,
Audubon Societies, societies for the preven-
tion of cruelty to birds and animals, con-
servation organizations of all kinds, bird
and animal lovers, nature lovers, and put
through some legislation which will very
materially reduce, even if it doesn’t entire—
ly eliminate, that dangerous nuisance, the
annual open hunting season.

ONE OF THE VICTIMS
The tick of time is out of rhyme

Where wild things wait for death,
Watching the stars through iron bars

And breathing each other’s breath.

But little man with his civic plan

To conquer and subdue
Acquires a thrill from the broken will

0f beasts in a city zoo.

LARIMORE

Our readers are urged to clip from “Our
Dumb Animals” various articles and re-
quest their local editors to republish. Copies
so mutilated will be made good by us upon
application.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 110
61hr '{ﬁanh nf ﬂint};

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

E. A. MARYOTT, State Organizer
PLEDGE

I will try to be kind to all living creatures and
try to protect the-m from cruel usage.

The American Humane Education Society Wlll send
to every person who formsaBand of Mercy of thirty
members, and sends the name chosen for the Band
and the name and post-ofﬁce address of the pres1-
dent who has been duly elected, special Band of
Mercy literature and a gilt badge for the pres1dent.
See inside front cover for prices of literature and
Band of Mercy Supplies.

NEW BANDS OF MERCY

Four hundred and eighty—one new Bands
of Mercy were reported during May. Of
these 182 were in Massachusetts, 116 in
Maine, 95 in Georgia, 68_ in Texas, nine in
Virginia, six in Pennsylvania, four in
Illinois, and one in North Carolina.

Total number of Bands of Mercy organ-
ized by Parent American Society, 224,100.

Companionship
LULU MINERVA SCHULTZ

And I would take a country road
That leads into a wood,
W' hen Spring presents her green display
0f leafy twig and hood,
A friendly dog to trot ahead
And sniﬂ each coming out
Of bug and bee—sometimes a snake
Or in the brook, a trout.

And when we’re tired, a sturdy log
Serves for our resting-place

Across the brook its length is sprawled,
To green fern-beds of lace;

The friendly dog snaps flies and yawns
And dozes at my feet,

While birds sing carols overhead——
Companionship complete.

Boys and Guns

L. E. EUBANKS

FRIEND of mine, the father of two

boys, ten and twelve, respectively, cen-
sors all reading matter that enters the
home, with a determination to have “no
ﬁrearm stuff,” as he expresses it.

“I had a younger brother,” this man says,
“whose life was utterly ruined because of
his interest in weapons, and I am taking no
chances of similar results in my sons.”

My friend’s VieWpoint has been criticized
as “extreme.” But why, why does the aver-
age person require any familiarity with
ﬁrearms? Self—protection? Under the right
laws, the thug would not have a gun, and
we wouldn’t need one to meet him.

Even allowing that self-protection and
safety of our homes constitute some argu-
ment for ﬁrearms, why should boys be al-
lowed ever to handle them? To trust to
your ability to make your son see the situ-
ation as you do, is to take serious chances—-
chances that have been proved to be big
mistakes in many cases.

Discretion is at a premium in the hand-
ling of weapons, and is not a quality of
youth, even very exceptional youth. The
constantly growing frequency of accidental
shooting by children is bad enough; but

OUR

DUMB ANIMALS

July, 1937

 

VALUABLE YOKE OF OXEN

ON A PENNSYLVANIA FARM

 

think of the deliberate murders—by young-
sters hardly old enough to lift a weapon
and not suspected of being at all cruelly
disposed!

Many of the people who are notoriously
cruel as adults were started in that direc-
tion when as young persons they were given
guns. As a rule, the thought of killing
something is associated with manipulation
of a ﬁrearm. That has always been the
case, and today certain kinds of reading
and certain types of picture shows are in-
creasing youth’s susceptibility to the gun’s
appeaL

Education in kindness is one of the ﬁrst
requisites when we attempt to lay the
child’s character-foundation. But the boy
with a gun wants to “kill something.” From
killing birds with an air-gun he may move
on to bigger game and bigger guns. Not
necessarily is he ruthless; but no one can
make me believe that a young boy who
hunts with ﬁrearms does not lose that ﬁne
edge of humane feeling which is so admir-
able. A later start at such things might
not be as grievous; but the practice of kill-
ing anything by a person yet in his forma—
tive years is more or less detrimental to
future character—often highly prejudicial
to all his best interests. '

I can never forget the heart—broken
scream of a certain mother many years
ago, when, as her son was arrested for
murder, she turned on her husband: “You
taught him to kill birds with a sling-shot
when he was ten years old!”

EDITOR’S NOTE.—The American Humane Education
Society, Boston, publishes a 4-page leaﬂet entitled

“The Air-gun and the Birds,” which will be sent
free to any person requesting a copy.

A Yoke of Oxcn

DAWES MARKWELL

INTO” and “SMOKY” are the most
useful animals on Glenbrook Farm and
they are showing other farmers in Pennsyl—
vania just how cheap, healthy and valuable
a yoke of oxen is. No pair of horses can
equal them in the woods and only the best

can equal them in the ﬁeld.

When they were a year old, Smoky and
Pinto were yoked together. Their eyes
rolled stubbornly and they pulled with all
their might in opposite directions, but the
farmer walked beside Pinto holding him
ﬁrmly by a rope around his horns and the
farmer’s daughter kept Smoky well in hand.
Up and down the lane the four stumbled,
struggling and tugging, until the oxen
found that there was no way to throw off
their yoke; that it was, in fact, quite com-
fortable if they walked straight and side by
side.

By the time they were two, Pinto and
Smoky were doing a great deal of work.
They mowed, raked, hauled and dumped
twelve tons of hay that summer and seemed
quite impervious to the heat, though the ther-
mometer sometimes registered 1060 in the
shade. They plowed and harrowed and did
all the other tasks on a farm and did them
more easily and expertly than horses of
their age.

But their greatest accomplishment is log-
ging. Now that they are fully grown, they
can skid the biggest trees out of the woods
and, if they strike a snag, they will break
the log chain rather than stop unless they
are commanded to “Whoa!” When they
reach the clearing, Pinto and Smoky walk
to the butt of the nearest log and, when
they hear “Come around,” turn short,
standing in position to be hitched. At the
order, “Get up,” they bend their thick
necks, dig their toes into the ground will-
ingly and pull as slowly and easily as a
pair of elephants,—a picturesque sight that
the neighbors often come to watch.

These oxen ﬂounder through snow that
would scare a horse into suicide, care not
for brush or stumps or saplings in their
path. Their only fault is a lively curiosity
that will lead them into the path of autos
if they see something that interests them
on the far side of the road. They gladly
risk their lives to make the acquaintance
of a stranger, stretching out their black
noses, rolling their soft, brown eyes and
snifﬁng delightedly at all passers-by.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

July, 1937

The Useful Collie

DAWES MARKWELL

ABS,” who answers to the aris—

tocratic name of Glenwell Glam-
orous when she claims her blue
ribbon at the dog show, is the most
useful of farm dogs, a collie. If dog
shows gave ribbons for brains as
well as beauty, Babs would win a
purple and gold rosette.

Twice a day she herds the cattle,
going alone half a mile back on the
mountainside for the eleven head
who often hide in the woods and tax
all her tracking powers to ﬁnd them.
She marches them quietly down to
the barn in much better order than
the farmer could do it himself and
then she lies on the cool, concrete
ﬂoor, waiting for the milking to be
done. A pint from the ﬁrst pailful

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

Page 109

Then he walked over to a hostile
looking gentleman (hostile looking
because opposed to the bill) near by,
and held out his paw in a gesture of
friendship. This gentleman who had
appeared to oppose the bill couldn’t
help but smile. More than that he
bent down and extended his hand to
give Rex’s paw a friendly shake.

Two or three testimonies unfavor—
able to the bill, followed by railroad
representatives who declared that
they wanted no large dogs to travel
in their cars. However it was their
belief that an informal plan could be
worked out for the accomodation of
the dogs of blind men.

Ofﬁcially speaking, that ended the
hearing on the bill. But in reality it
marked its beginning. At this point
Dr. Claus, unhooked Rex’s leash.
The dog bounded to the table where
the chairman sat, and licked his

 

is always hers, though if the cat
gets to the dish ﬁrst, she will stand behind
him, drooling with anticipation until he has
ﬁnished.

When the cows have been put back in
their pasture and her mistress has praised
Babs for her good work, the collie trots
to the house to see whether the chickens
are all in order. She taught herself to
keep the ﬂock out of the garden.

“Babs, get that hen!” and away she will
race to pounce on a culprit, her paws
holding the bird ﬁrmly until someone comes.
Or, if the hen runs under the porch, Babs
will crawl after it and drag the fowl
out by a wing, never tearing the ﬂesh
though the victim may ﬂap and squawk at
the top of its lungs.

“Oh, Babs, get me a stick of wood,” some-
one will say, and the collie hurries to the
woodpile, picks up a piece of cordwood and
comes trotting proudly to the kitchen door
with it.

When she goes to town, a treat that she
awaits pathetically every time she sees one
of the family start for the garage, she sits
proudly in the front seat and smiles at the
passers-by. She likes to be patted and
talked to, but woe betide the person who
puts his hand on the door handle! Babs
will growl deep in her throat and curl her
lip back from her fangs. She has never
had to bite anyone for that warning has
always served its purpose.

On her own farm, she is alert every mo-
ment, listening for strange sounds even
when she appears to be asleep. When vis-
itors come, she barks three times to notify
the family of their approach and then waits
to see whether the newcomers are to be
welcomed as friends or driven away with
snarls. If they are friends, she greets them
with a digniﬁed wag of her big, white tail
and goes back to her place beside her own-
er’s chair, glad to lie down and rest after a
long, and busy day on the farm.

More friends are needed to endow stalls
and new kennels in the Angell Memorial
Animal Hospital. Payments of thirty-ﬁve
dollars for a kennel or seventy—ﬁve dollars
for a stall will insure a suitable marker
inscribed with donor’s name. Terms of per-
manent endowment of free stalls and ken-
nels will be given upon application.

Seeing Eye Dog Made Hit
ELDA SPRUNGER

EX,” an intelligent looking dog, re-

cently won the distinction of being the
ﬁrst canine in history to inﬂuence congres-
sional legislation. Rex and his master
walked quietly down the halls of the House
ofﬁce one day when six congressmen, headed
by a representative from North Carolina,
were considering a bill, none too favorably,
which would permit the dogs of blind men
to ride with them on railway coaches.

The chairman and others deemed such
legislation needless. They asserted that
railroads would be glad to accomodate the
dogs of blind men without being forced by
law to do so.

How Rex caused those on the opposing
side to change their minds is a story
fraught with humor, and even a touch of
pathos.

Dr. Harry P. Claus, master of Rex and a
young consulting engineer, was ﬁrst to
speak in favor of the bill. Dr. Claus lost
his eyesight some years ago in a plane
crash. The distinguished doctor explained
that his business kept him traveling con—
stantly. Frequently he was forced, he said,
because of railroad regulations, to ride with
Rex in the baggage car. He stated that he
and his dog had gone through rigid train-
ing in the Seeing Eye School at Morristown,
N. J. Rex, said he, was taught to be friend-
ly on all occasions with everyone, unless
commanded otherwise.

Rex listened to this with a cocked ear.

hand. Then amid smiles and laughter
he frisked about and pawed the knee of al-
most every man present.

After Rex had returned to his master and
gently rested his head on his knee, the
chairman made the following announcement.

“Gentlemen, we have changed our minds.
You may rest assured that this committee
will report this bill favorably.”

These words were uttered to the accom-
paniment of vigorous thumpings of the
dog’s tail, and as he proudly marched down
the hall with his master, his bushy tail

wagged joyously, conﬁdent that he had
done a good job.

PUPPY

EDITH HADLEY BUTTERFIELD

A tiny, tricky terrier, a sparkle in his eye,

Is this jolly little jumping dog of mine.

He’s like a ball of mercury, can’t hold him
if I try.

Got a wiggle

Like a giggle

In his spine.

In twenty places all at once, he scampers
through the room,

Defying all the laws of space and time.

His duty in the universe is but to shatter
gloom.

Are you lucky

With a puppy
Just like mine?

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

.
1,. _
I

t
l

 

 

Oct. 1987

Fehmty
To My Persian Puss
E L E A N O R H A L L

Her eyes are phosphorescent
In her litle poker face,

Her ears betray emotion
By their lively pointed grace.

Beneath the sculptured outlines
Carved in each paw’s silken furs

She holds withdrawn, so lightly,
Fi've tiny scimitars.

When fasting has been broken
And her toilette made with care,

She rises, yawns and stretches
With so languorous an air,

Then draws her tail about her
As a lady furls her fan,
And sits serenely gazing
As only Buddha can.

Discarded Pets

GEORGE A. KELLY

HEN vacation time comes in the

window numerous pets go out the
door. Literally speaking, that is just exact—
ly What happens when certain persons who
have four-footed pets make plans to go on
their annual vacation.

During the winter months, when many
persons are obliged to make the best of
the room or rooms to which they are con-
ﬁned, they will usually, for the sake of
variety, obtain some sort of a four—footed
pet and bestow upon it every kindness im-
aginable, thereby realizing many happy
hours in its company.

However, when the sun has climbed high
in the summer months they ﬁnd other
means of passing the time and they uncon-
sciously neglect those poor pets, or discard
them completely when they hie themselves
to the beaches, mountains, or to the country
for a rest. ‘

OUR DUMB

I wonder if they stop for a mere minute
to imagine what really becomes of those
unfortunate pets when they ﬁnd themselves
without a home. It so happens, the author
is a policeman, and as such is in a position
to come in contact with those “discarded
pets” and feels it is his duty, through this
medium, to appeal to those persons who do
desert their pets, in order to make them
realize the suffering their acts cause.

Upon coming to the realization that their
masters are absent from their homes, the
animals decide they will roam, with the
result, they eventually adopt a strange
neighborhood, hoping in their dumb manner
that some other kind human will under—
stand their plight and take them into a
comfortable home.

The days pass by and no such luck is
theirs, and the result is, they become con—
fused, hungry and tired, and in that state
they are not responsible for their actions
and, understanding they are homeless out-
casts, they attempt to keep out of the path
of humanity and wind up in the path of
some vehicle—an automobile or street car.

If sudden death be their fate, they should
be considered fortunate, but should their
limbs or back be broken, it means that
someone must perform a disagreeable hu—
mane act and put an end to their sufferings.

If the abandoned cat is compelled to roam
in the rural districts, it becomes a menace
to the wild birds and in the course of a
summer irreparable injury is done to inno-
cent and useful wild life.

May I ask the readers of this article to
co-operate in an effort to round up the “dis—
carded pets” and to aid the humane so-
cieties in relieving a form of suffering of
animals far too prevalent and resulting
largely, shall we say, from sheer neglect.

Endowed stalls and kennels are needed

in the Angell Memorial Animal Hos-

pital. Payments of thirty-ﬁve dollars
for a kennel or seventy-ﬁve dollars for
a stall will insure a suitable marker
inscribed with donor’s name. Terms of
permanent endowment of free stalls and
kennels will be given upon application.

 

PLAYFUL CHILDREN

424 "I . . '

2 AV 4/4567 1'

ANIMALS

Page 157
Cats of the World

ADA M. MORGAN

UST how long cats have been domesti-

cated isn’t known, but it must be a long
time for they are mentioned in Sanskrit
writings two-thousand years old. Also
ancient records, cat mummies, and monu-
mental ﬁgures show that pussy was loved
and honored in long ago Egypt, that origin-
al granary of the world.

Origin of the cat has never been deﬁn-
itely determined, or whether our present
breeds are descended from several distinct
species or have been modiﬁed only by occa-
sional crosses. However, it is believed that
tamed Wildcats of Egypt and Hindustan
were the forefathers of our present do-
mestic varieties.

Not that it matters. Everyone loves his
own particular tabby, Persian, Angora,
Siamese, Spanish, or American cat.

Besides these well—known favorites that
can be found almost everywhere in our
country, there are other kinds of cats, odd
and exotic, that live in other lands.

The Manx or tailless cats of the Isle of
Man are unusual appearing creatures to
anybody who is used to associating tails
with their feline pets. Just when and
where these cats “left their tails behind
them” isn’t known—if, indeed, they ever did
possess that graceful appendage. It is said
the ﬁrst “tailless one” swam ashore to the
Isle of Man from a wrecked ship.

Owners of these cats love and admire
them very much, and declare they are much
more graceful than the “common long-
tails.”

Long—tailed cats in Japan, China, Siam,
and the Malay countries seem to be as un-
usual as tailless ones are here. Most cats
in those countries have abbreviated tails
with a decided kink or bend near the tip,
or a short curling type like a bulldog has.
Sometimes the tails start straight then
divide in a fork-like manner near the tip.

These cats are rather small with some—
what longer hair that resembles rabbit fur
in texture. Their cries remind one of the
jungle-cats of India and Africa, and their
habits are more dog-like than those of some
other cats.

Madagascar also has kink-tailed cats.

Native cats of Paraguay weigh only
about three pounds. They are not more
than one-fourth the size of ordinary ones.
Another South American breed is said to be
free of the horrible “cater—wauling” that
often rends the night’s stillness.

The ancient Aztecs kept hairless cats that
are now practically, if not completely, eX-
tinct. This type had no fur at all during
summer but as winter advanced they grew
a slight covering of hair along their backs
and ridges of tails.

The Abyssinian cat is deep brown, ticked
with black. A distinct black band runs
down the back to tail tip. The small ears
are tipped and edged with black. The paw-
pads are black and the dark red nose is
outlined with the same color. Orange under-
markings and the deep yellow eyes tinged
with green make this cat unusual.

The red-colored cats of Tobolsk and Chi-
nese cats with pendulous eats also have their
place among the odd and different cats that
are native to other parts of the world.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

4a.

 

 

W 29 ”3131?
(See page 138)
“PALOTTERIE” AND PART OF HER FAMILY. ARGILLA FARM, IPSWICH, MASS.

   

THE MASSACHUSETTS SOCIETY FOR HTE
PREVENTION OF CRUELTY To ANIMALS

and THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION
SOCIETY ~

 

 

 




U, S.Trade Mark,Registe;-ed 1)

LL {N 1868.AND FOR FORTy.O

mme NE

0( GEO. YEARS ED!
09

The Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

The American Humane Education Society

 

The American Band of Mercy

I would not enter on my list of friends,
Though graced with polished manners and. ﬁne sense,

. ' . . AND Mencv 1‘0“
Yet wanting sens1b111ty, the man

EVERY lema
Who needlessly sets foot upon a worm. CREATURE'

——COWPER

 

 

 

 

Published monthly by the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood, Massachusetts

Entered as.second-class.matter, June 29, 1917, at the Post Ofﬁce at Norwood, Mass., under the Act of March 3, 1879
Acceptance for mailing at spec1al rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 3, 1917, authorized, July 13, 1919

 

 

Boston Ofﬁce, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

 

‘VoL 70

'hday,l937

 

Road Accidents to Dogs—Hints to Motor-
ists—General Advice to Motorists and Dog
Owners — When Accidents Occur —— Legal
Proceedings—Some of the subjects of a new
leaﬂet for free distribution just published
by the M. S. P. C. A. A postal will bring
you a copy.

In a former issue of Our Dumb Animals
we spoke of the practically incredible in-
difference of the citizens of Tulsa, Okla-
homa, to the work of the little group of
struggling men and women who were trying
to do something for the relief of animal
suffering in that city. We are glad to learn
that at least the Tulsa World has proved
itself most generous and helpful in backing
up these champions of the unfortunate ani-
mals. May the Tulsa World continue its
good work!

“Prince,” a police dog, aroused the family
at 308 Mary Street, Utica, N. Y., by his
lusty barking and saved four persons from
possible death when ﬂames broke out in the
house at 1:30 in the morning of March 8.
Safe to say that Prince will not suffer “de-
barking” at the hands of his present owners.

The Royal S. P. C. A. of Sydney, Aus-
tralia, announced the celebration of Humane
Sunday there on March 7, with Be Kind to
Animals Week immediately following.

An English humane society is now pur-
chasing the hundreds of surviving British
war horses which, although pitifully en-
feebled, are still being worked on the
farms of Belgium and France, says the
Readers’ Digest. These animals, left behind
in 1918, are being returned to England to
live the rest of their days in idleness.

In making your will, please remember
the Massachusetts Society for the Preven-
tion of Cruelty to Animals. Send to the
ofﬁce, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, for
free copy of report for 1936.

From Flooded Louisville

HE following letter will be of special

interest to those of our readers who
through our Society sent their gifts to
Louisville.

Louisville, Ky.
February 25, 1937
Dr. Francis Rowley
c/o Massachusetts Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals
170-184 Longwood Avenue
Boston, Massachusetts.

Dear Dr. Rowley:

The Kentucky Humane Society wishes to
thank you for your kindly contribution to
be used in the work of protecting dumb ani-
mals from the ravages of the recent ﬂood.

We have been besieged with calls from
owners of cattle, hogs, and horses who have
no means of feeding or caring for their
stock.

Our agent, Mr. A. L. Martin, an experi-
enced worker, has attended to these calls
and has diligently searched the surrounding
country for suffering animals which were
not reported to us.

You can see that the added expense of
providing this relief has been very great
and your unselﬁsh donation and that of
anonymous friends has alleviated much suf-
fering during the emergency.

May we ask your continued interest in this
great work.

Sincerely,
FLORENCE W. WALKER,
Sec’t’y and Treas.

We wish we could add to the above letter
of acknowledgment the long and beautiful
letter sent us by Mrs. J. B. Speed, president
of the Humane Society. There is probably
no resident of Louisville more highly re-
garded and loved by the people of that city
than Mrs. Speed. The story she tells of the
suﬁering both of people and of animals is
pitiful, but she also says, “But fright, misery
and ruin have been met with splendid
courage, ﬁne organization and co-operation

‘lQo.5

and the most marvelous and generous help
from outside, including your own and your
Society’s and friends’ splendid assistance.”

There is a touch of humor in Mrs. Speed’s
letter which is really worth repeating. She
says, “To the little Red Cross Hospital
where the National Red Cross established a
station there was brought a member of the
Board of the Red Cross from her house
which had been in ﬁve feet of water. She
had been rescued by boat and taken to a
place already full but where she managed to
get a chair and where she slept for four
nights wrapped in a blanket, no heat, no
light, no water. When she was ﬁnally taken
into the little Red Cross hospital, warmed
and fed and put on a cot she just stretched
out beatiﬁcally and said, ‘The Lord is my
shepherd, and I don’t want nothin’.”’ It
seems that Psalm is repeated always at a
meeting of the Board.

Ten Billions for Arms
National Totals—1936

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Russia ......... $2,963,000,000
Germany $2,600,000,000
United States $964,000,000
Italy .. $870,000,000
Great Britain .......................................... $846,900,000
France .. $716,000,000
Japan ........... $307,000,000
World Total—19324936
1932 $3,815,000,000
1933 ............................................................... $3,992,000,000
1934 $5,064,000,000
1935 . $8,810,000,000
1936 .. $10,730,000,000

 

(Foreign Policy Association Figures)

Every human being looks up to the
birds, writes Donald Culross Peattie in
“Singing in the Wilderness.” They suit the
fancy of us all. What they feel they can
voice, as we try to; they court and nest,
they battle with the elements, they are torn
by two opposing impulses, a love of home
and a passion for far places. Only with
birds do we share so much emotion.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

June, 1937

 

“Kayo” Saves the Day

ADRIAN ANDERSON

AYO” is no beauty, nor can he boast

of any illustrious forebears, but he is
possessed of a deep loyalty, a quick intelli-
gence and a habit of instant obedience to
the wishes of his master. That is why, in
the space of a single day, he has become a
really famous dog.

When Everett Schlosser, Kaye’s master,
went to repair the telephone lines near Fort
Morgan, Colorado, which had been torn
down by a ﬂood, Kayo went along.

At the point where several poles had
been washed out and the lines broken, there
ﬂowed a stream 900 feet wide and ﬁlled
with quicksand. No human being could wade
or swim it, nor could he throw a line across.
To go up or down stream to where a line
could be carried across was found impos-
sible because of the intervening trees and
underbrush. A kite was tried without suc—
cess.

It was then that Everett Schlosser be-
thought himself of Kayo. First, he tied
the end of a ball of cord to his pet’s collar
and left him in care of a friend. Then he
went upstream to where he could cross and
came down on the other side. Kayo, watch-
ing from the opposite bank, suddenly heard
his master call out, and without hesitation
or questioning leaped into the stream.
Sometimes he swam, sometimes his stubby
little legs touched the dangerous shifting
sands of the bottom. The long cord became
heavier and heavier in the water and sand,
but Kayo pressed valiantly on. Presently
he scampered out on the bank, shook him-
self and joyfully wagged his tail. The
precious line was safely across. The wire
quickly followed. Down stream other breaks
were discovered, and before the day was
done Kayo had made three trips across the
swollen, shifting stream.

Kayo watched his master mount the poles
and join the lines together again. He did
not know that, thanks to his brave, unﬂinch-
ing effort, the magic wires were singing
again. He only knew that he had pleased
the man he loved.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

This Dog of Mine

J. ANN ULLREY

’Tis not his breed or pedigree,
Nor yet his silken coat so ﬁne,
Just everlasting loyalty
Endears this dog of mine.

’Tis not that he is beautiful

In every streaming curve and line,
It’s just that he believes in me;

This good old dog of mine.

’Tis not his keen sagacity

In things mundane and dreams divine,
It’s just his trustful constancy

Endears this dog of mine.

’Though fortune frown and friends depart
And not a silver lining shine,

There still remains one faithful heart
In this old dog of mine.“

So when I reach the River Styx
I hope to hear a friendly whine,
And groping through the waters dark
Find this old dog of mine.

“Captain Patrick”

E. H. DONLEVY

APTAIN PATRICK” is strutting

around Magazine Beach in Cambridge,
Mass., with a proprietary air again, now
that the swimmers have opened the season.
He has waited here since last fall for his
friends of the Magazine Beach Life Saving
Patrol, their good times, their gifts of meat
and milk, their boat rides.

The Captain is a huge gray tom—cat, with
only his name and his favorite trick to set
him apart. He loves boat rides.

He hurries to the life-boat every time it
sets out, and leaps to his familiar post at the
front, where he won’t miss anything, and
where he sits like a strange ﬁgure-head.
Afraid of water? Not Captain, because he
knows that the life savers will always be
around in case the boat tips. Even when
water is splashed from the oars, he never
moves.

He likes to prowl around the raft, after
he gets a ride there, and watch the new-
comers take their diving examination, and
appraise them with wise, green eyes.

At night, bereft of the noise he loves,
the sound of bare feet under the shower, the
sight of Red Cross badges—he makes his

Page 87

bed on the bathing suit someone has for-
gotten, not minding how wet it is.

Many people have offered a home to Cap-
tain Patrick, but he chooses to live at the
bathhouse. In winter, the caretaker feeds
him, while the boys and girls of the Patrol
do not forget—they make daily trips with
fresh beef and catnip to the deserted bath-
house, where Captain Patrick has been
waiting.

The cat came to the Beach two years ago,
liked it, and apparently intends to stay. He
was named by Lloyd MacIntosh of Cam-
bridge, a life saver, after the famous Cap-
tain Patrick’s Island which once guarded
the Charles River from invasion. A maga—
zine, guns, and guards once stood on this
island, long since ﬁlled in and now the site
of the present bathing beach. Captain
Patrick is quite proud of his name, because
it makes people stop and notice him. More
often it nets him choice delicacies!

The Week in Rhode Island

In a letter to Mrs. John R. Rathom, sec-
retary of the Rhode Island Humane Educa-
tion Society, Governor Quinn endorsed Be
Kind to Animals Week, closing with the
words, “I am sure the result of such an
observance will make for keener recognition
of our duty to our friends.” Mayor Dunne
of Providence issued a proclamation, urg-
ing support of the Humane Education
Society. J. Harold Williams, chief Boy Scout
executive of the state, declared “The whole
country and the whole world needs a good
dose of humane education.” Martin J.
Noonan, superintendent of parks, issued a
statement asking that children especially be
impressed with the lessons of the Week.
The Providence Sunday Journal published a
telling cartoon by Halladay and the Star-
Tribune carried an excellent editorial.

Taunton Branch,M.S.P.C.A.

Through the efforts of Mrs. Howard F.
Woodward, president, the Taunton Branch
of the Massachusetts S. P. C. A. observed
Be Kind to Animals Week by placing copies
of the national poster in every school room
in Taunton, Dighton, Raynham, Myricks
and Berkley. These were especially con-
spicuous in the auditorium of the Taunton
High School where they attracted much
attention. Suitable literature was sent to
ministers in connection with Humane Sun-
day. On Saturday a tag day was held,
netting about $100 for the Branch. A
bridge party and food sale, held the next
week, brought in $50.

 

“OH, BOY,” “TOOTSIE” AND “PIKER,” NATIVES OF THE

GOLDEN WEST

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

Page 62
(1th Eanh nf ﬂurry

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary
E. A. MARYOTT, State Organizer

PLEDGE

I will try to be kind to all living creatures and
try to protect them from cruel usage.

The American Humane Education Society will send
to every person who forms a Band of Mercy of thirty
members, and sends the name chosen for the Band
and the name and post-ofﬁce address of the presi-
dent who has been duly elected, special Band of
Mercy literature and a gilt badge for the president.
See inside front cover for prices of literature and
Band of Mercy Supplies.

NEW BANDS OF MERCY

Seven hundred and twenty-one new Bands
of Mercy were reported during February.
Of these the-re were 226 in Illinois, 118 in'
Massachusetts, 111 in Georgia, 89 in South
Carolina, 70 in Florida, 52 in Pennsylvania,
43 in Virginia, and six each in Tennessee
and Newfoundland. ‘

Total number of Bands of Mercy organ-
ized by Parent American Society, 221,993.

A Modern Androclus

(A True Story)
STANLEY B. WILSON

OTHER, I’ve done my good deed for
today!” grunted Junior, throwi'ng
himself into an armchair.

“The man that started this ‘one good
deed a day’ stufl’ should’ve been a mother,
and he’d have known a Scout ought to be
good all the time!” remarked Mrs. Brown.

“Ah, but this was an exceptionally good
deed—something I’ll probably never do
again. At least, I hope not.”

“What are you talking about, Junior?”

Mrs. Brown laid down the dust—pan and
stood before him, hands on her hips.

“I was coming along the bush road with
Bobby. We were on our bicycles, of course.
And all at once I saw an animal ahead of
me, the queerest sight you can imagine.”

“What was it? A bear?”

“No, a skunk. But he’d been foraging
around some camp, for his head was im-
prisoned in a tin can.”

Mrs. Brown’s eyes were opening.

“You didn’t touch him, Junior?”

“1 saw Bobby was riding on as fast as
he could. But I thought, ‘The poor beast
can’t see or eat or drink until someone takes
off that helmet.’ And I remembered, three
days ago, a girl told me she saw a skunk
going around with a can on his head.”

It was Mrs. Brown’s turn to sink gasping
into a chair.

“I grabbed him by the back of the neck,”
continued Junior, “and pulled off the can
with the other hand. Then I ran. But
when I reached Bobby he was gazing, sort
of amazed, at where the skunk had been.

“ ‘You should’ve seen his face, Junior,’ he
told me. ‘If ever an animal looked grateful
that skunk did.’ ”

“Remember Androclus, the early Christian
in Rome?” asked his mother, proud of her
son now that she knew he was safe. “He
pulled a thorn from a lion’s foot. And
long afterwards, in gratitude, the beast
saved his life when they met in the arena.”

“I hope,” grinned Junior, “if I’m ever
thrown to the skunks that my friend’ll be
one of them.”

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Children Love Their “ King”

Big German Shepherd is Their Friend

and Guardian

ATE last winter, the Boston news-
papers printed a long story, illustrated
with many photographs, about two chow
dogs and a German shepherd that rescue-d
two small boys from drowning in a Quincy
creek. It was a fascinating story, because,

 

HE SHEPHERDS THE CHILDREN

according to the accounts, the dogs worked
as a unit with almost human intelligence to
pull the lads back on solid ice and were suc-
cessful only after many failures.

Accounts of the affair differed somewhat,
but with the merits or demerits of the story
this article has nothing to do. It’s ancient
history, anyhow. We are here concerned
solely with “King,” the German shepherd,
who is a “graduate” of the Angell Memorial
Animal Hospital. One day last August, a
man brought him there to ﬁnd a home for
him, explaining that King was inordinate-1y
fond of children and would not remain
where there were none, which was the case
in his family. Shortly afterward, Matthew
Weiser, of Clay street, Quincy, came look-
ing for a dog that was fond of children. Of
course, that was a perfect set—up for King,
who then and there changed masters. The
big German shepherd promptly adopted the
little Weiser boy, and every other boy and
girl in the neighborhood. His great love for
children spread all over the district. Moth—
ers looking for their strayed offspring would
stand and listen for King’s bark, and, sure
enough, there they would be found romping
with him.

They tell some wonderful stories in that
section about King’s protective care of the
children. Mrs. Weiser says that if the kid-
dies are playing in the street and an auto-
mobile approaches, King will gently herd
them to the sidewalk. If two obstreperous
boys get into a. ﬁstic argument, King will
rise up between them, and if that doesn’t
stop the fight he will growl and threaten.
That’s only a bluff, of course, but it always

Apr. 1937

works. King, it seems, is a competent peace
officer.

But, alas, there’s a darker side to the
picture! Neighbors told about it. They in—
dicted King on two counts. First, he has a
habit of upsetting garbage buckets. That
wouldn’t be so bad, but he has an uncanny
trick of getting the covers off and strewing
the contents all over the lot. Not so good.
In fact, a trail of incensed housewives.
Second, he has a predatory sweet tooth,
ice cream preferred. He has been known
to put his great paws on a little girl’s
shoulders, seize the cone in his big mouth
and swallow it at one gulp. And then, by
way of adding insult to injury, so to speak,
lap the child’s lips for the last remaining
morsel.

All this may be libeling an otherwise
noble character. At any rate, there was
some feeling about it, and only a day or
two before the famous rescue incident a
policeman, armed with a petition signed by
several irate neighbors, invaded the district
to arrest King, or at least to have him put
under restraint. The ofﬁcer listened to the
stories told by the children, constituting a
Homeric paean, and decided he didn’t have
signers enough to warrant taking action.

“And now,” said Mrs. White, the mother
of ten-year-old Charlie White, whom King is
credited with having dragged from the icy
waters of Black’s Creek, “there would be
mob violence in this neighborhood if they
tried to take him away. What if he does
snatch an ice cream cone once in. a while,
or upset a garbage can? Since the rescue,
the King can do no wrong.”

Medal for Young Girl

The medal of the Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals
was presented last month to Marion P.
Hamilton, twelve years old, of East Wey—
mouth, for saving the life of a. big shepherd
dog which had fallen into a hole and would
have been drowned but for her timely aid.
The hole was ﬁve feet deep and contained
four feet of water. Only the dog’s head was
visible when Marion, at the risk of being
dragged into the hole by the 50-pound ani—
mal, exerted all her strength with a ﬁrm
grasp on the collar. Another twelve-year-
old girl, Phyllis Newell, heard the cries and
came to the rescue, the two dragging the
dog out to safety.

Boy Risks Limbs for Cat

On Washington’s birthday Daniel Joseph
Wallace, 17, of Somerville, Mass, saw a
cat marooned on a cross steel support of the
Boston Elevated Railway at Main and
Mead streets, Charlestown. Though it was
10 o’clock at. night, rainy and very misty,
the boy determined to rescue the crying
animal. While Ofﬁcer Rice of Station 15,
who happened along, held a ﬂashlight,
young Wallace climbed up the slippery
steel upright and across to where he ﬁnally
succeeded in reaching the cat. He cautiously
returned over the slippery steel and down
the upright, releasing the animal as soon
as he touched ground. The cat said “meow”
and lost no time in running off.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 132

Migration
JENNIE REED

Tonight young birds will fly

To far off lands they never have seen before.
They will not be afraid,

They know——

Oh, marvelous knowledge, amazing insight!
They know

That some mysterious, unfailing Guide

Will pilot them.

Out into the night they go,

Wild with an ardor they never have felt
before.

They do not understand,

They feel—

Oh, rare intuition, undoubting trust!

They feel .

The mighty urge of some transcendent Will

Fulﬁlling their destiny.

The Desire to Kill

UR wild life is fast reaching extinction
0 because of this desire on the part of too
many people to kill just for the sake.0f
killing, writes Bill Williams in commenting
upon the slaughter of animals by automo-
bilists, in the Post-Advocate, Alhambra, Cal-
ifornia. In later life, blood is not abhorrent
to them and that same desire to kill ﬁnds
its outlet in some form of human pass1on
and we pay the bills for the thousands of
murderers that are in our jails. Not one of
us wants to see our sons killed in war, so
why should be want to kill the birds and
animals that are as necessary for our life
as our human friends are. When our birds
are all gone then we will have plenty of
insects and no crops. Then the food problem
will be an acute one. We might give this
matter a little thought.

What does it mean that more than two-
thirds of a million people have joined the
Jack London Club, sponsored by Our Dumb
Animals? It means that there is a rapidly
growing sentiment in this country against
the cruelties connected with trained animal
acts on stage and screen.

The Roadside Zoo

With the beginning of the tourist traﬁic,
begins the attraction of the roadside zoo.
This can only attract unthinking people
favorably; it attracts the wrath of a great
number of tourists, and a protest. The un-
thinking spend their time while waiting in
teasing the animals, and feeding them
everything that is bad for them. Seldom is
there space for exercise, or shelter from the
sun. Usually the cages are ﬁlthy, and the
animals utterly uncared for. They are at
the mercy of the unthinking, and are teased
and prodded, frightened and worried; fed
all sorts of things that injure them, which,
being hungry, they eat.

Genuine animal lovers will not buy gas
at stations that keep animals in cages. Tell
the proprietor why. Protest whenever you
see them. When they discover that the tor-
ture of these creatures is reducing their
revenue instead of increasing it, they will
get rid of them. —Animal Life

OUR DUMB AN IMALS

Dreadnaughts of the Jungle
BURT HAUSE

UT on the high seas our mighty battle-

ships and dreadnaughts of the Navy
are on constant patrol. And deep in the
forests of far away India, the rhinoceros, or
dreadnaught of the jungle, patrols his
domain.

The rhinoceros ranks next to the elephant
in size and strength, often attaining a
weight of six thousand pounds. He has a
short head and neck, a tail two and a half
feet long, a massive hog—like body which is
about nine feet long and ﬁve feet high and
supported upon four short, but stout legs.
A single horn from one to two feet long
grows upon the upper surface of his muzzle
which makes him a formidable foe indeed.
Mr. Rhino is almost a living fortress with- .
in himself as ordinary musket balls are
unable to penetrate his thick hide. His
skin is earth—colored, almost hairless, and
rough. Walking sticks are made from his
hide while his horn which takes a beauti—
ful polish, is made into drinking—cups.

These animals are found in herds of four
to six feeding in marshy places near rivers.
The most powerful warriors lead the herd
and they can only be hunted successfully
with the aid of elephants. The rhino’s mode
of attack is to rush upon the elephant in
an effort to rip him with his horn. But
experience is a dear teacher, therefore the
elephant is wise to this trick. He merely
turns his back to receive the shock in his
hindquarters- and little damage results.
Even then the mighty elephant is sometimes
hurled headlong upon the ground. The rhi-
noceros is no respecter of private prop-
erty. Should a hunter pitch his tent in his
path, the old dreadnaught walks right on
over it. And on his nightly rambles, this
fellow often plays great havoc with the
Indians’ rice ﬁelds. He believes in regular
habits, too, because he always follows the
same path to his favorite feeding grounds
or water hole.

This animal, like the elephant, is short
sighted but possesses an unusually keen
sense of smell, being able to scent danger a
long way off. His horn partly obstructs his
vision, yet, he has allies who warn him of
an oncoming hunter. These allies are
“rhinoceros birds” which constantly ride
him to feed upon ticks and other vermin
that infest his skin. If a hunter draws nigh,
the birds utter harsh, grating cries. There—
fore, Mr. Rhinoceros loses no time in mak—
ing off at a fast trot.

One never knows what a surprised rhino
will do. He may draw near to investigate
or he may charge without a moment’s
notice. When charging, he puffs and blows
like a steam engine coming through the
jungle with his head low so that he may rip
his enemy with his horn. To his way of
thinking, mud baths are quite the style.
Nothing gives him more pleasure than to
wallow for hours in a mud puddle and then
let the sun dry the mud into a hard cake
on his back.

The young rhinoceros follows its mother
until nearly grown. She assumes the entire
responsibility of teaching the youngster
those things that a properly reared dread-
naught of the jungle should know. During
all this time the father seldom comes near
the nursery, and then only at night. A sort

Sept. 1937

 

WHITE RHINOCEROS

of temporary divorce exists between the
parents until their offspring is grown,
after which the father joins his family.

Commercial Cruelty

Not long since a shipload of aliens ar-
rived at an American port. They were not,
like the average immigrant who comes with
high hopes and eager expectancy of reach—
ing a land of plenty and of promise. They
were as homesick as any exile that ever
pined for his native land. They had been
decoyed, overpowered and shanghaied in the
home of their nativity. No dream of a
larger freedom was theirs. They were pris-
oners. Good behavior would never bring
them any commutation of sentence. They
would never be themselves again. What
living being would not choose the, unknow-
able future to such existence. This was
the passenger list of les miserables:

Thirteen baby elephants, 200 monkeys
with 60 monkey babies in arms, 2 Bengal
tigers, 2 sloth bears, 3 black panthers, 2
hippopotami, 56 snakes, and 900 miscellane-
ous birds. They were all consigned to a
Hagenbeck representative and were to be
disposed of among the circuses and other
establishments that batten upon wild life.

The catching and reducing to captivity of
wild animals is in most respects a cruel
business of which the civilized world knows
little. That it must be a proﬁtable business
is common knowledge. Wild animals of
every kind are in constant demand to ﬁll
the cages at the zoos and circuses, mu-
seums and menageries, and to supply the
animal “training schools.” So long as the
directors of amusement resorts such as
these stand ready to pay $4,000 for a rhi-
noceros, $5,000 for a young orang-outang,
and $25,000 upwards for a pair of full-
grown orangs, and fabulous prices for
many other specimens, there will be ad-
venturous collectors who will invade the
haunts of the animals and secure those upon
whose heads man has put so high a price.

 

 

 

‘ 3,52%, ~ ‘

 




 

~ » ‘h.-w- .

 

‘Nov.1937

Song for All Creatures
JOHN T. RITCHEY

The fox, possessor of a den,

The rabbit, owner of a burrow,
Even the mole a landlord when

The ﬁeld is cut in stubbled furrow.

These creatures, neighbor to the air
And friend to grass and close to trees,
Travel a certain thoroughfare
Toward the eternal H esperides.

With no concern for human kind
Save in fear of shot and shell

And neat cold pain that turns eyes blind
And bodies still and pitiful.

The fox, possessor of a den,
The rabbit, owner of a burrow,
Even the mole and landlord when
The ﬁeld is cut in stubbled furrow.

The Saddle Pony

KENNETH NEWCOMB

EAR to the heart of the cow country

lad is his favorite saddle pony. Often
not much of a horse in the eyes of the rest
of the outﬁt about the place, but to the
lad whose intimate and friendly acquaint-
ance it enjoys, the saddle pony combines all
that is best in horse ﬂesh as well as being
both friend and chum. Years may change
the lad into a city business man with gray-
ing temples, paved streets and office build-
ings may take the place of range and cor-
ral, but nothing can ever ﬁll the niche left
vacant by the much loved saddle pony of
yesteryears. Oft-told tales of childhood re-
peated to the man’s children or grand-
children continue to add other admirers and
friends long after the fastest thoroughbred
of the pony’s time has been forgotten. I
know, because I was once a lad possessed of
such a pony. Years have dimmed the de-
tails of many childhood memories, but the
happy days spent with “Fan” and the
wealth of experience we had together stand
out indelibly and are reﬂected in nearly
every story relating to my childhood, when
told to the youngsters around my chair.

One story in particular to which I am
partial, deals with Fan’s concern for me
the day we came dashing up to a turn in
the lane just after ’a' rain had left the
ground soft and slick. Fan went down on
the turn, but I went straight on for sev-
eral feet until brought up on the side of
a cow path with sufﬁcient force to take
away my breath. Having had my “wind”
knocked out before, I just lay still, face
down, waiting for the pain to subside and
my breathing apparatus to resume its nor-
mal regularity. While thus prone upon the
wet ground, I felt something brush my
shoulder, lightly at ﬁrst and then more
ﬁrmly. I looked up to see Fan standing
over me, apparently much more concerned
about the consequences of the spill than I
had been.

Fan, as a four-year-old, lost her only colt
shortly before she was turned over to me
the summer I was eight. I always liked to
believe she sort of adopted me and bestowed
on me the pent-up mother love she held for
the lost colt all through the years we were
almost constant companions.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Page 165

Animals on Indian Reservation
BEATRICE WARREN

HEN I think of the variety of mis-
Wsions an Indian trader is called upon
to perform, it brings a smile.

One day an Indian dog followed his owner
to the store, wearing a face that was aston—
ishing. It was covered with porcupine quills
as thick as a pin cushion is stuck with pins
——the worst case we had ever seen. He

 

the affected area around the base of the
quills, saying that they will soften and come
out as easily as pins from a cushion. How
tragic that I had not heard that lecture
several years ago when it would have done
that particular sufferer some good, but I
have stored the bit of information in my
memory, hoping that it may help any other

 

SCENE ON NAVAJO RESERVATION. BOTH YOUNGSTERS SAY:
“This is our ﬁrst trip to the trading post and we’re sticking close to our mas.”

could not eat and of course no Navajo
would concern himself enough to do any-
thing about it. We realized that if the dog
had been attending strictly to his own busi-
ness he would not have found himself in
such a condition, but philosophy did not
help him any. The rest of us crave a little
sympathy, too, when we get into difﬁculties,
perhaps from sticking our noses into other
people’s affairs.

There was no veterinarian within hun-
dreds of miles to help or even tell us how
to proceed, but the trader got out a pair
of pliers and commanded the Indian to hold
the dog’s feet, and then began the agony
of having those barbs removed. No doubt
the dog felt that the cure was worse than
the disease but that was because he had
never gone mad with a jaw and throatful
of festered quills. What a pity we cannot
explain to dumb creatures that we are try-
ing to help them and really not enjoying
hurting them more. At least he was grate-
ful enough after the painful ordeal to ac-
cept bread crusts from my hand, with all
members of the family and other cheerful
onlookers predicting that he would surely
bite me. But I never can believe that any
animal is going mad and bite the hand that
feeds him the ﬁrst food he has had in days.
And I imagine the pan of water was even
more of a treat to the thirsty puppy.

At the campﬁre lecture in one of our
national parks last summer the ranger’s
topic about park animals and rodents in-
cluded the porcupine and in connection with
that he explained how to treat a dog that
has accumulated a set of porcupine quill
whiskers. He advised pouring vinegar over

unfortunate dog that passes my way with
a face “that hurts him.”

In days gone by, when few whites lived
on the reservation, some Indian was con-
tinually sending for our men folks to come
and sew up a horse that had been cut on
barbed wire or to make a few fancy stitches
in a dog that had fought not wisely but
too well.

Navajos like cats and we have to keep a
sharp watch on ours while they are small.
Cats are not plentiful on the reservation
and any squaw is watching for an oppor-
tunity to slip one under her shawl and walk
off with it. If a cat crawls up on the meat
hanging around a hogan and proceeds to
help himself, as a rule they just slap it off,
but if a dog gets to the meat they nearly
kill him. We do not know the reason for
this great discrimination but presume they
ﬁgure that the little bit the cat gnaws off
does not hurt the meat since it is already as
ﬁlthy as can be but a dog can get away
with a good—sized chunk. We even knew an
Indian family that milked a goat to feed
their cat.

A horse was once formally appointed
Consul of Rome by a Roman Emperor. The
horse was “Incitatus,” beautiful and beloved
steed of the mad Caligula. Legend says,
however, that Caligula remarked that, of
all his Consuls, Incitatus was the only one
who did not give him lies and false ﬂattery.

In Galway, Ireland, they say that an
Irish wolfhound sailed, with its. master,
Rice de Culvey, with Columbus upon his
ﬁrst voyage to the New World.

 

 

 




 

 

1 ANGELL m 1868.AND FOR FoRTy.

u U_ S.Trade Mark, Registered \

The Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

The American Humane Education Society

The American Band of Mercy

I would not enter on my list of friends,

Though graced with polished manners and ﬁne sense,

Yet wanting sensibility, the man
Who needlessly sets foot upon a worm.

~COWPER

ONE YE
EDIT

 
   

so Sybil/i1

GLORY TO
GOD,
PEACE on EARTH,

AND Mencv To-
Evanv meo
CREATURE.

 

Published monthly by the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood, Massachusetts
Entered as second-class matter, June 29, 1917, at the Post Ofﬁce at Norwood, Mass.,

Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of Oct

under the Act of March 3, 1879
ober 3, 1917, authorized, July 13, 1919

Boston Ofﬁce, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

Vol. 70

Old as the Christmas Greeting is, it is
always welcome, even though sorrow and
tears may come with happier memories. So
to all our readers we say a Merry Christ-
mas, with the hope that at least the spirit
of the day may bring more of sunshine than
of shadow.

What would, Richard Martin have thought
had he known that in the year 1937, in his
annual address, the president of the British
Association for the Advancement of Science
made special reference to the progress that
had been made in “animal welfare.” In
spite of wars and rumor of war, in some
directions the world still moves forward.

From National Nature News we take the
following: There are only three snakes that
are really dangerous for us here in this
country, the rattler, the copperhead, and
the cotton-mouthed moccasin; and of the
many hawks, the two chieﬂy to be watched
are the Cooper and the sharp-shinned hawk.
The other species are beneﬁcial and yet
thousands of them have been killed.

A parade of children and adults was held
during Be Kind to Animals Day in the Vir-
gin Islands. Back of this humane movement
is a lover of animals, a lady 80 years old,
who had been seeking to awaken interest in
animals in the Islands. Hearing of her, one
of our members sent her some of our litera-
ture and this was distributed at the parade.
Who will ever know the kindly souls, often
far away from the world’s notice, who have
been spending time and energy for the wel-
fare of those who cannot speak for them-
selves?

Remember that Be Kind to Animals
Week will be celebrated throughout the
nation, April 25—30, 1938, and will be pre-
ceded by the annual observance of Hu-
mane Sunday, April 24.

December, 1937

The Fourth Wise Man

KADRA MAYSI

At the date palm grove by the desert well

They had camped when the eastern dark-
ness fell:

Melchior, Caspar, Balthazar.

They were lords of the East who sought the

Star.

They were three great kings on a mission.
met;

But the fourth, and the greatest, came not
yet.

All night, from the sand ridge, watched a
man,

Hawk-eyed, for the royal caravan.

But the desert paled from dusk to fawn

As the groaning camels rose at dawn.

Balthazar, Caspar, Melchior,

Went on, with the day, toward the Star.

They had watched in vain for the caravan

Of the greatest mage and the fourth wise
man;

But he never came. He was not with them

On the night by the Crib in Bethlehem.

Yet the Savior, knowing all things, knew

That the absent prince to his tryst was
true:

That the noblest king had turned aside,

In mercy’s name, from his wealth and
pride,

When he saw the fate of tortured beast

And toiling man in the pagan East.

He had left his throne and his magian law

To work for the Christ he never saw.

An English Bishop recently dedicated
altar rails to the memory of one who had
been master of staghounds in that section
of the country for seventeen years. One
wonders what the unfortunate stags chased
and killed would have thought of the dedi—
cation ceremony.

 

No. 12
The Falling Leaves

THERE is something akin to pity for
them as one watches the falling of the
leaves through the autumn days. How we
welcomed them when they came with the
early spring so fresh and green and young.
All summer long they clung to the tree that
gave them birth and then one by one,
though growing more beautiful with the
changing season, grew weaker and weaker,
till they lost their hold upon the branch to
which they had so bravely clung through
rain and storm and fell to the ground. How
much we owe them! Read the following
from National Nature News:

Millions of leaves ﬂuttering to the
ground convey to us the message that their
work for the tree from which they are de-
parting is ﬁnished. All summer long the
leaves have soaked in the sun’s vital rays,
sent this life-giving vitality to the roots,
that in turn sent food to every part of
the tree. The leaves have helped free the
air from much of the carbon dioxide, the
poison generated by decaying matter and
given off in the breath of man and animals.
They have also given millions of gallons
of moisture to the air. They have formed
a canopy under which man and beast have
found shelter from sun and rain and have
made a hiding place for birds and their
nests.

The beautiful lines of Archer Milton
Huntington ﬁttingly follow the above:
Here floats a twisting leaf to the ground,
A twisting leaf to the earth;

It has played in the wind, it has wept in
the rain,

It has glistened with dawn to the low refrain

Of the waking things,

Of the myriad wings

That sing not of death or pain.

Here floats a trembling leaf to the ground—-

A shivering leaf to the earth.

  




 

 

 

 

 

, “V-.. «_>

Page 42

Item VI —- Work of Ofﬁcer in Eastern Essex
County:

Complaints investigated .......... 271
Prosecutions ...................... 1

Animals inspected ................ 51,047
Large animals humanely put to

sleep ........................... 146
Small animals humanely put to

sleep ........................... 112
Horses taken from work .......... 25
Animals placed in homes ......... 5
Ambulance calls .................. 84
Miles traveled .................... 19,774

Item VII —— Work of Ofﬁcer at Worcester:

Complaints investigated .......... 506
Prosecutions ...................... 6

Animals inspected ................ 4,512
Large animals humanely put to

sleep ........................... 37
Small animals humanely put to

sleep ........................... 29
Miles traveled .................... 10,208

Item —- VIII The Taunton Branch

From the Taunton Branch of the Massa—
chusetts S. P. C. . A., of which Mrs. H.
F. Woodward is president, the following re—
port was received, which includes the ﬁg-
ures from July 1 to December 31:

Dogs and cats put to sleep ........ 1,043
Birds put to sleep ................. 9
Homes found for dogs ............ 14
Homes found for cats ............. 3
Dogs returned to owners .......... 30
Cash on hand July 1, 1936 ........ $ 94.17
Receipts from July 1, 1936 ........ 613.50
Expenditures from July 1, 1936. . . . 623.72
Balance December 31, 1936 ........ $ 83.95

Item IX — Boston

The story for 1936 from our Head-
quarters in Boston. This does not include
the work of the oﬂicers given above:

Complaints investigated .......... 2,190
Prosecutions ...................... 9

Animals inspected ................ 13,474
Horses taken from work .......... 65
Unﬁt horses humanely put to sleep 245
Small animals humanely put to

sleep ........................... 20,331
Animals placed in homes ......... 478
Returnedtoowners............... 177
Animals inspected at stock-yards. 651,802
Injured animals put to sleep at

stockyards ...................... 270
Miles traveled by ofﬁcers ......... 37,761
Ambulance calls .................. 3,131

f

 

‘- -‘.§Wr -

 

THE NEW GARAGE AND REPAIR SHOPS

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Totals Covering State

Complaints investigated .......... 5,369
Prosecutions ...................... 36
Animals inspected ................ 86,985
Miles traveled .................... 176,374
Large animals, injured or unﬁt

for service, humanely put to sleep 836
Small animals, injured, diseased

or unwanted, humanely put to

sleep ........................... 20,331
Animals placed in homes ......... 1,391
Animals returned to owners ...... 671
Ambulance calls .................. 10:216
Animals inspected at stock-yards. 651,802
Service rendered to horses at sum-

mer watering stations .......... 11,448

Our Two Animal Hospitals

1 . Boston ——

The demand for the services rendered by
an animal hospital has grown beyond all we
anticipate-d when in 1914 we built the Angell
Memorial Hospital, Longwood Avenue, Bos-
ton. It seemed at that time a rather bold
venture. Year by year it has grown in the
number of those who have sought its ad-
vice and help. Three of its large horse
wards that once were needed for such large
animals have been remodelled to accommo-
date the smaller four—footed patients.

The report at the end of the ﬁrst year
showed 1,779 animals treated in the Hospi-
tal; that is, entered in its wards, and 2,600
in] the Clinic. In 1925 the report was 6,975
treated and 14,163 brought to its Clinic.
Here are the ﬁgures for the past three
years: 1934—animals left for treatment
7,938; clinical cases, 24,778; 1935—patients
treated, 8,181; clinical cases, 24,328; 1936—
hospital cases, 8,774; clinic, 24,701.

During the past year we have spent
$2,000 in entirely remodelling our large
distemper ward. All the old ﬂoor has been
removed, a ﬁnely ﬁnished cement ﬂoor laid
which runs up a foot around the four walls
and so drained that it can be daily ﬂushed
with hose. Its walls have been thoroughly
cleaned and painted and all is in the best
possible sanitary condition. In addition a
room has been specially set apart, resur—
faced, new lighting installed, and equipped
as a diagnostic laboratory with autopsy
table. This wholly and only for purposes
of aiding in diagnosing such difﬁcult cases
as require blood testing and other similar
determinations as to what the sickness of

.......

 

M ar. 1937

the animal may be and which cannot be
determined by mere visual and external
examination. This has involved an expense
of some $3,500. A specially trained tech-
nician will be in- charge of this work.

2. Our Hospital at Springﬁeld, opened
in 1931, has steadily grown. Its ﬁrst report,
for the year 1932, showed: hospital cases,
554; clinical cases, 1,557; for 1936, hospital
cases, 1,751; clinical cases, 5,403. The re-
port for both Hospitals for the past three
years, total cases:

1934, 37,853
1935, 38,491
1936, 40,599

The Work of the Angel] Animal Hospital in
Boston and the Hospital in Springﬁeld
During 1936

Small animals treated ........... 10,358
Large animals ................... 46
Birds ............................ 91
Cases entered in Hospital ........ 10,495
Dispensary Cases

Small animals treated ........... 29,682
Large animals ................... 16
Birds ............................ 406
Total treated in Dispensary ...... 30,104
Operations ...................... 10,769
Total animals and birds treated

last year ....................... 40,599

Summary

Cases in Hospital since opened

March 1, 1915 ................. 145,798
Cases in Dispensary since March

1, 1915. ....................... 354,920

Total. . ....................... 500,718

Eight thoroughly trained veterinarians,
six in Boston and two in Springﬁeld, are in
constant service.

New Garage and Repair Shop

The Society has 22 automobiles and am-
bulances. Among these is a new horse am-
bulance made to order of our own design
which we believe is the ﬁnest and most efﬁ—
cient one of its kind in the country. The
repair bills on all these cars and ambu-
lances have been unavoidably heavy in the
past. This last year we built an excellent
garage and repair shop at our Rest Farm
and Small Animal Shelter at Methuen. This

 

INTERIOR OF THE NEW GARAGE

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 158
Eh» 133mb of merry

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

E. A. MARYOTT, State Organizer
PLEDGE

I will try to be kind to all living creatures and
try to protect the-m from cruel usage.

The American Humane Education Society will send
to every person who forms a Band of Mercy of thirty
members, and sends the name chosen for the Band
and the name and post-ofﬁce address of the presi-
dent who has been duly elected, special Band of
Mercy literature and a gilt badge for the president.
See inside front cover for prices of literature and
Band of Mercy Supplies.

NEW BANDS OF MERCY

Seven new Bands of Mercy were reported
during August. These were in Vlrglma.

Total number of Bands of Mercy organ-
ized by Parent American Society, 224,915.

The Seeing Eye
lVlAZIE V. CARUTHERS

My master takes the open road,
Serene and unafraid——

No need has he of other guide
His journeyings to aid.

I am his eyes—alert and quick
A dangerous step to see;
Holding fast to my leash, his trust
18 inﬁnite in me.

I am his body—guard. He walks,
Unfaltering, behind.

Twice keen my sight, twice ﬁrm my feet,
Since he I love is blind.

I am his servitor, on whom
His very life depends.

Ours is a dear companionship——
Dog, master—more than friends!

World Famous Toad

EWEN K. PATTERSON

OADS are by no means popular ani«

mals; they are loathsome creatures to
most people. Nevertheless, they are useful
friends of man, especially the giant toad,
the largest and perhaps the most repulsive-
looking members of the toad family. This
queer creature has become world-famous
within recent years as a valuable ally to
farmers in their ceaseless war against insect
pests.

 

FEMALE GIANT TOAD

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Until twenty years ago the giant toad
lived a secluded and unknown life in the
wilds of Mexico. One day in 1917, however,
a woman scientist was travelling through
Mexico when she happened to see a few of
the ugly creatures, and, out of curiosity, she
decided to investigate their habits. She ex—
amined the stomach contents of some of
them and discovered that they lived almost
solely on insects (beetles, grubs, slugs, etc.) ,
including many species which, at that time,
were causing great destruction in the sugar-
cane plantations in the West Indies.

As a result of this discovery, several hun—
dreds of the toads were captured and lib-
erated in the plantations, where ever since
they have been doing wonderful work as
pest—destroyers. Their success in this re-
spect has resulted in the animals being in-
troduced into practically every tropical and
sub-tropical country in the world to ﬁght
insect pests. Throughout the East Indies,
in Africa, Hawaii, Fiji, Australia, etc., the
ugly creatures are saving farmers millions
of dollars every year.

In Australia they have completely eradi-
cated mice and cockroach pests from many
districts, and in Hawaii the toads are even
kept in all private gardens, where nightly
they take up duty on the lawns and among
the ﬂower and vegetable beds, ready to
devour any insect which ventures forth.
Often, too, they enter houses in search of
insects attracted by the lights.

The toads are remarkable creatures. They
attain a length of seven or eight inches,
and some have been known to live for twenty
years. Although they breed in water only,
they roam miles from water in search of
food. They, have an insatiable appetite,
but when necessary can live for a long time
without food or drink.

The animal’s most remarkable feature is
its weapon of defense; this is a gland in the
middle of its back, from which it emits a
poisonous ﬂuid, one of the chief ingredients
of which is adrenalin. Adrenalin is used in
medicine as a heart stimulant and to check
hemorrhage, and in the toad the substance
is in such concentrated form that two toads
provide more adrenalin than can be obtained
from a bullock. The toad is harmless to
humans or animals unless grossly attacked.
For instance, should a dog grasp a toad in
its mouth, the poisonous ﬂuid is emitted,
and the dog experiences one of the nastiest
tastes Nature can provide. The ﬂuid makes
the animal quite sick for a few hours, but
it is never fatal.

The toads are proliﬁc
breeders. The female lays as
many as 3,000 eggs at a
“sitting,” and a remarkable
but previously unknown fea-
ture of the animals was re-
cently discovered by scientists
in Australia. Some of the
toads were kept under obser-
vation in captivity, and three
of the males , distinguished
themselves by changing into
females and laying eggs.
Some species of oysters also
periodically change their sex
several times during the
course of a breeding season,
but the giant toads are the
only animals in existence
that do likewise.

Oct. 1937

“Billy,” the Pet Raccoon

EDWARD L. VAN DYKE

HAT seems like gratitude for being
spared from a ﬁendish death is
shown by a raccoon kept as a pet by Don-
ald Blauvelt of Wilawana, Pa., not far
from the Waverly-Elmira, N. Y., highway.
The raccoon, “Billy,” seems also an an-
swer to the question; Can a raccoon, kept
as a pet, be allowed to run loose without
obeying normal instincts, and disappearing
in the woods?

Two years ago, Billy’s parents were liv-
ing in a hollow tree near a farmhouse.
The farmer shot the old male ’coon when
he found him raiding a hen coop. Then the
farmer’s hired man saw the mother, with
a hen, climbing into the tree. With cruelty,
the man set ﬁre to the tree. Then mother
and four baby raccoons perished, but young
Blauvelt, 18, racing to the scene, was able
to save one of the young animals.

For two years Billy has lived in a barrel
in a small shed. He responds quickly when
one of the Blauvelt family calls his name,
and comes loping toward the house for an
expected delicacy of a piece of bread or
some tidbit from the table. He also loves
bread and milk. He has learned to open
doors and ambles about the Blauvelt house
like one of the family. Never has he tried
to run away, nor has he ever revealed an
appetite for fresh chicken—a weakness
which was fatal to his parents.

Billy is such an affectionate fellow the
Blauvelts often say they think he remem-
bers and appreciates his rescue two years
ago.

Never hesitate to interfere kindly when-
ever you see any animal being abused. It
is weak and cowardly to be afraid of ridi-
cule.

This is what Geo. T. Angell, founder of
our two Societies, said was his object: “To
humanely educate the American people for
the purpose of stopping every form of
cruelty, both to human beings and the
lower animals.”

 

 

“11.4.:xfﬁz‘

pigs—3:; .2

ii

A - a—f. r," a’_ (~55

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page88
Our Dumb Animals.

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston Office: 180 Longwood .Av-
enue, Boston, Mass., to which all communications
should be addressed.

Dr. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON, Editor
WILLIAM M. MORRILL, Assistant

 

JUNE, 1937

 

FOR TERMS, see back cover.

AGENTS to take orders for Our Dumb Animals are
wanted everywhere. Liberal commissions are offered.

EDITORS of all periodicals who receive this pub-
lication this month are invited to reprint any of the
articles with or without credit.

MANUSCRIPTS relating to animals, particularly
prose articles of about three hundred words, are solic-
ited. We do not wish to consider prose manuscripts
longer than 800 words nor verse in excess of thirty-
six lines. The shorter the better. All manuscripts
should be typewritten and an addressed envelope with
full return postage enclosed with each offering.

 

 

Of the signiﬁcance of the debate we have
had no information as yet, but it is at least
encouraging to learn that the subject of the
pollution of maritime waters by the dis-
charge into them-of waste oil from ships,
which has meant such tragic destruction to
millions of sea birds, has been under dis-
cussion once more in the British Parliament.

No more attractive annual report ever
came to our desk than that of the Scottish
S. P. C. A., Edinburgh. It celebrated its
97th anniversary this last April. This
Scottish Society is one of the leading hu-
mane organizations of the world. Its i'nﬂu-
ence, particularly through its publication,
The International Journal of Animal Pro-
tection, is beyond estimate.

The Journal of Paris gives us the follow-
ing: “The other evening over the radio
from London came the information that
Minister of Foreign Affairs Eden has re-
ceived a delegation which has asked him to
have inserted in the covenant pact of the
League of Nations the obligation to be kind
to animals, and Mr. Eden promised to do
all in his power to fulﬁl the request.”

With great pleasure we learn of the pub-
lication of a Roman Catholic Journal, The
Ark. It is issued by the Catholic Study
Circle, South Kensington, London, W. 7.
Its purpose is “To see whether there be any
traditional or authoritative Catholic teach-
ing concerning the nature of man’s relation
to the animal world and to formulate that
teaching.” We believe this is the ﬁrst
Catholic publication of its kind, and cordi-
ally welcome it, wishing it a most successful
future.

The rapid multiplication of pigeons has
become a serious problem, particularly in
France. In such cities as Paris, Bordeaux
and Marseilles the various monuments are
so deﬁled by them that the authorities have
been seeking some way to stop reproduc-
tion. The destruction of the eggs has been
advocated by many on the, theory that 100
pigeons contented and well nourished are
better than 1,000 dying of hunger. This
same problem is more and more facing cer-
tain cities in this country.

OUR

DUMB AN I MALS
This is Hard to Believe

BILL to conscript four millions of young

American men to ﬁght a war on foreign
soil. This bill is called the Hill-Sheppard
Bill, Senate No. 25, House No. 1954. The
April issue of Peace Action has this to say
relative to this incredible bill:

“The group that favors our making money
out of foreign wars has eliminated from the
neutrality bills all restrictions that would
prevent a war boom. Are we going,” it
continues, “to accept this plan and will our
boys die overseas, gassed on strange plains,
blown to bits in foreign lands, rotting in
alien swamps?”

And these boys will be your sons or
grandsons, dear reader. Shall we sit still
and do nothing and say nothing? Write to
your senators and representatives at once.

The following is what we have written to
the two senators of Massachusetts and to
our representative.

April 14, 1937
The Hon. David I. \Valsh
United States Senate
Washington, D. C.

My dear Senator Walsh,

I have learned today that there is a bill
called the Hill-Sheppard Bill, S.25———H.1954,
which I am told is in the nature of a con-
scription bill, the idea being to induce the
Senate and House to pass a bill conscript-
ing four million young men to ﬁght a war
on foreign soil.

Just what this means I do not understand,
but it seems incredible that such a measure
should ever have been presented to Con-
gress, and I can’t conceive of any Senator
or Representative supporting such a meas—
ure unless he is associated in some way
with the people in this country who make
money out of foreign wars and would see
their neighbors, if not their own sons,
doomed to the hell of what the last war
meant.

Pardon my outspokenness, but if a meas—
ure of this sort should be passed I believe
there are hundreds of men like myself in
Massachusetts who would engage in a pub-
lic campaign denouncing such betrayal of
their constituents’ highest interests.

Believe me, with sincere regards for
your responses in the past,

Very truly yours,
FRANCIS H. ROWLEY
President

Humane Worker’s Fund

We are receiving gifts to the American
Humane Education Society as a trust fund,
the interest to be used for the beneﬁt of
ﬁeld missionaries and others who have spent
their lives in promoting humane education.

We will welcome your contribution to this
fund. Please make checks payable to Treas-
urer, American Humane Education Society,
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

An exceedingly attractive and interesting
quarterly magazine, the Blue Cross, the
organ of the Shanghai, China, S. P. C. A.,
has just reached us. We congratulate the
Shanghai Society upon its magazine and
upon the splendid work it is doing. It is
another ﬁne illustration of the ever-widen-
ing spread of the humane movement.

June, 1937

A Good Friend Gone

N the death of Mr. J. Murray Forbes

the Massachusetts Society for the Pre-
vention of Cruelty to Animals has lost one
of its oldest and most loyal friends. Mr.
Forbes was a director from 1875 to 1892,
then was made a vice-president and served
from that period until the time of his
death. Mr. Forbes was a representative of
one of Boston’s oldest and most prominent
families, and, though in later years he
was unable to take any active part in the
work of the Society, he never forgot it and
maintained his interest in it to the last.
His daughter, Miss Dorothy Forbes, has
been one of our Directors now for 23 years.

Irvin S. Cobb Says:

Among those who have fought the good
ﬁght for helpless animals are many out—
standing churchmen—priests, preachers,
rabbis. But they fought as volunteers, not,
I think, under orders from ecclesiastical
headquarters.

So far as I know, not one of the great
organized faiths of the English-speaking
world ever directed its mighty force into a
crusade for common justice to the dumb
creatures, and yet, to such as these, common
justice merely means individual kindness
and concerted protection against needless
cruelty or deliberate neglect.

Reclaiming souls and uplifting mankind
may be the main impulse of the powerful
religious agencies, so possibly it never im-
pressed any of them that authoritatively to
enlist on the side of mercy for the mis-
treated dogs, the overworked horses, the
caged beasts that are taught silly tricks by
prolonged torture, might be a gracious thing
in the eyes of the Creator.

VVasn’t something said once about the
fall of a sparrow?

Paying Back with Usury

A distinguished physician of Paris, Dr.
Logere, has written for the French publica-
tion Le Defenseur des Animauac, a rarely
beautiful article on the dog as a friend and
companion, and calls special attention to the
value in restoration to health of many
sick, worried, nervous people that can re-
sult from the daily fellowship of a dog
whose affection, devotion and understand—
ing have a positive healing effect upon him
who cares for it and loves it. “It gives
back,” says this specialist in mental and
nervous troubles, “and often with usury,
the love which one bestows upon it.”

Spare These Hawks
and Owls

The red—tailed hawk, red-shouldered hawk,
duck hawk, pigeon hawk, barred owl, Arctic
or snowy owl were threatened with exter-
mination 'here in Massachusetts by a bill
which would have removed all protection
from them. The Massachusetts Audubon
Society was chieﬂy responsible for the de-
feat of the bill. The economic value of
these hawks and owls to the farmers as
destroyers of harmful rodents was too evi-
dent to be ignored.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 156

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

not immediately construct a
sentence, but he could name
different objects, make his
wants known, speak his
real thoughts, for he would
know no deceit until he had
learned the ways of man.

Who can look upon the mis-
ery of caged animals of the
zoo and not visualize him or
herself in a small cage, not
for a day or a year, but as
long as life lasts?

It does not take a vivid im-
agination for the woman in
furs to realize the horror of
the steel trap. And so we
might run the gamut of cruel-
ties perpetrated upon the sub—
human creation and still the
half would not have been told.

Think then of the other pic-
ture! Try to imagine the
“grand and glorious feeling”
of knowing exactly where to
ﬁnd a drink of clean, cool
water on a hot night, of a
certain alley gate where a pan
of fresh scraps will be placed
at the evening hour, of a lawn
where one may lie on the grass
and not be driven away, may
perchance, even receive a
pleasant word, or a pat.

How much joy could be
spread abroad if only the hu-
man could, or would, put him-
self for a moment in the place
of some humble, terror strick-
en “dumb animal.”

 

Put Yourself in His Place

DAVID LEE WHARTON

NE of the reasons why many persons

cannot understand the sub-human is
the seeming inability to put one’s self in
the place of the dumb friend. Mankind, as
a rule, thinks of them only as “dumb ani-
mals” and lets it go at that.

Stop and think for an instant! If for
some reason, you were incapable of articu—
late speech, but were endowed with every
other faculty possesseed by man, if your
life had been spent among human beings,
you had shared their homes, their daily
lives, had listened constantly to their con—
versations with one another, had been
talked to by them, in short had been as
one of them, would you not have a pretty
fair idea of what they were saying?

You may seem amazed at theunderstand-
ing of ordinary language by animals, es-
pecially dogs, and exclaim in astonishment
“I believe he knows what you say.” Why
not? you expect him to understand your
commands and to obey them, so naturally
he understands other words.

Speak in the dog’s presence of going
somewhere he likes to go, watch his inter-
est and preparations, then his dejection
when he is told he is not to go. Tell him
he does not love you and see his vehement
attempts to convince you that he does, how
he paws at your hand, the fervent wagging
of his tail, and above all the look he gives
you.

If such a dog were to become endowed
with the power of speech he probably could

Horses on the Screen

The charge itself, of course, is the high-
light of the production, “The Charge of the
Light Brigade.” But for me it spoiled the
picture, for reasons which I admit may be
peculiarly personal. I cannot, for example,
endure steeplechases because of the sense-
less rough treatment of ﬁne horses which
they involve. Seeing the charge of the
Light Brigade on the screen was like watch-
ing a dozen steeplechases all at once. Scores
of splendid animals, tripped by expert stunt
riders, come thumping to the earth, and go
rolling head over heels until they seem
likely to break their necks. I have been
assured that the horses used in “The
Charge of the Light Brigade” were really
treated with the utmost consideration, but
I have never seen animals do things like
this for fun, and I will not believe it is any-
thing but cruelty until a reputable horse

tells me so.
JAMES FRANCIS CROW

“The grand distinguishing principle of
Christianity, established by all its facts
and doctrines, is that of mercy, lavishing its
regards upon an inferior race of creatures,”
says the Rev. John Styles, D. D.

Horses are 15% lower in price than in
1936, though receipts at public stockyard
markets totaled 304,223 head during the
ﬁrst seven months of 1937, against 289,168
for the same period in 1936, according to
Wayne Dinsmore, secretary of the Horse
and Mule Association of America. Mule
prices are as high as last year.

Oct. 1937

Burro
CLARENCE M. LINDSAY

Just a long-eared burro,
Ornery and tough!

With a look of sorrow
When he cuts up rough!

Handy with his limbs and
Balky as can be!

Full of guile that brims and
Whimsicality !

Just the same, I’m thinkin’
I should hate to part

With that lop-cared, blinkin’
Work of equine art!

And it sometimes strikes me
When he looks around,

That he kind 0’ likes me,
Friendly, I’ll be bound!

Sometimes rubs his nozzle
Up against my sleeve!

And though it’s a puzzle
When his legs may leave

Ground, and make connection
With yours truly, still

He’s full of aﬁection!—
Good ol’ Balky Bill!

A Natural Saddle Horse

SARAH ANSLEY BUNTING

HE gate swung open, cheers were
‘ heard from the crowd, and a beauti-
ful chestnut gelding, followed by a cloud
of dust, trotted into the show ring; posses-
sing all the brilliance, air, animation, ac-
tion, and speed that an American saddle
horse could be expected to have.

“What beauty!” “What animation!”
“What a gorgeous tail!” “What spirit!”
These were some of the remarks of the
audience. Ah! But if only these were
genuinely true, if only that spirit came
from a horse which was happy and com-
fortable, and not from one which was sad
and in pain. To know that that high tail
came from an operation and the tiresome
wearing of a bothersome tail set.. ’

Why, why do exhibitors insist on ginger-
ing their mounts, which seems to. me the
most cruel thing that I have discussed? I
once saw a groom attempt to ginger a little
girl’s pony before she went into the ring.
“You stop that,” she exclaimed, “you arn’t
going to hurt my pony!” I’m certainly glad
to see some one stick up for his mount’s
welfare, even if it is a small child. I only
wish there were more of this sort. Yet, we
all know the answer to these questions:
because judges will not give entrants recog-
nition if the horses are not “dolled up.”
But why can’t the judges stop judging this
way, which means the unhappiness and suf-
fering of so many horses? That is the real
question. If the horse does not do these
things naturally, then he doesn’t deserve
the prize.

The original idea of a horse show was to
see who had the ﬁnest stock, which is
caused by royal breeding; but, instead, it
seems as though now the idea is to see who
can produce the best artiﬁcially beautiﬁed
animal. Why can’t our breeders breed for
these ﬁve points and give us a true natural
American saddle horse?

 

 

 




 

Mar.4193’7

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Page 41

Sixty-ninth Annual Report of the President
For the Year Ending December 31, 1936

I

The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

A Foreword

E often wonder how many inter-
W ested in organizations to which

they contribute, or in which they
are shareholders, read an annual report. In
many cases these reports certainly fail to
tell the whole story. You can make ﬁgures
tell the truth or conceal it. But annual re—
ports must appear and so for the 27th time
the President of our two Societies attempts
to tell the story of what has been accom-
plished during the year, as brieﬂy as pos—
sible, and repeating himself as little as
possible.

Enlarging Our Work

The Society, the business house, the man
who begins to stand still begins to go back-
ward. We can truthfully say that during
these past 27 years our two Societies have
never stood Still long enOugh to realize it.
Each year new things have been done, new
ﬁelds entered, new ventures made, believing
that the more we did the more those inter-
ested in our work would give us to do with.
The years have justiﬁed our belief.

Now the Last is Going to be First

Generally the statistics and. summary are
found at the end of an annual report. This
time we are putting them at the beginning.

Item I—Pittsﬁeld

For more than a score of years we have
had a paid ofﬁcer in Berkshire County with
headquarters in Pittsﬁeld. During the last
20 years we have spent in the interests of
animal welfare in that county over $60,000.
N 0 county in the state has contributed less
in proportion to the service rendered. But
the work there must be done. Our ofﬁcer
must have a home. We must have a mod—

ern, sanitary and up-to—date shelter for
Unable to rent such a home

"small animals.

 

NEW SMALL-ANIMAL SHELTER, PITTSFIELD

for him and such a shelter, we had last
summer to buy a home and build a shelter,
the pictures of which appear here. The
home cost us $7,500. This was a better
investment than renting such accommoda—
tions if we could have found them. Then
we had to build our shelter at a cost of
something more than $2,000. This was com-
plete-d the very last of December.

Here is the ofﬁcer’s report for Berkshire
County:

Complaints investigated .......... 166
Prosecutions ...................... 6
Animals inspected ................ 11,027
Ambulance trips .................. 2,197
Large animals humanely put to

sleep ........................... 19
Small animals humanely put to

sleep ........................... 2,590
Horses taken from work .......... 5
Animals placed in homes ......... 159
Returned to their owners ......... 19
Miles traveled. ................... 24,179

Item II—Methuen

The Small Animal Shelter in connection
with our Rest Farm for Horse-s at Methuen
has increased its service to that section of
the state.

Complaints investigated .......... 116
Animals inspected ................ 15,006
Large animals humanely put to

sleep ........................... 89
Small animals humanely put to

sleep ........................... 3,655
Animals placed in homes ......... 130
Returnedtoowners............... 46
Horses taken from work .......... l4
Ambulance trips .................. 1,881
Miles traveled .................... 14,679
Daily average of horses at Farm. . . 29

 

 

BERKSHIRE COUNTY HEADQUARTERS, PITTSFIELD

Item I I I~Attleboro

The New Shelter established here in 1935
reports for the year:

Complaints investigated .......... 359
Prosecutions ...................... 9
Animals inspected ................ 12,431
Ambulance trips .................. 445
Large animals humanely put to

sleep ........................... 32
Small animals humanely put.to

sleep ........................... 619
Horses taken from work .......... 27
Animals placed in homes ......... 123
Returnedtoowners............... 36
Miles traveled .................... 29,698
Item IV —— The Cape

Here, too, the work has grown.
Complaints investigated .......... 973

Prosecutions ...................... 1

Animals inspected ................ 616
Large animals humanely put to

sleep. ....... i ................... 7
Small animals humanely put to

sleep ........................... 1,031
Horses taken from work. . . . . . . . . . . 6
Animals placed in homes ......... 24
Returned to owners .............. 32
Miles traveled .................... 28,064

Item V—- Shelter at Springﬁeld in connec-
tion with Springﬁeld Animal Hospital and
work of ofﬁcer for Hampshire, Hampden
and Franklin Counties:

Complaints investigated .......... 940
Prosecutions ...................... 4

Animals inspected ................ 31,104
Large animals humanely put to

sleep ........................... 19
Small animals humanely put to

sleep ........................... 4,989
Horses taken from work .......... 25
Animals placed in homes ......... 698
Returned to owners .............. 402
Ambulance calls .................. 1,915
Miles traveled .................... 16,486

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

.. [/rl 1'4, ,7

 

Oct. 1937

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Page 159

 

 

   

«I
’"I'fll‘ "'2 ii"! HIM" ISM \“'

“ilk”,

Fun in the Forest
IDA KENNISTON

A frisky, risky squirrel
Scampered up a walnut tree.

He stopped and curled his bushy tail,
And looked right down at me.

He rubbed one tiny little paw
Upon his nose, in thought,

Should he let me know his hiding-place?
Should he, or should he not?

I wanted so to talk to him——
To say, “You little elf,

You know I wouldn’t harm you,
Or rob you of your pelf.”

In fact, I softly said, “Chee, chee,”
And “Chitter, chitter, chat!”

He really seemed to cock his ear,
As if to say, “What’s that?”

But then he turned and quickly climbed
Till I couldn’t see him more.

Perhaps he popped into his home
And closed its tiny door.

Oh, I’d love to be a squirrel,
And hide my tiny store

Of butter-nuts and hickory nuts
And chestnuts by the score.

How Many “M” Animals
ALFRED I. TOOKE

In the following diagram are hidden the names of a number
of animals. See how many names beginning with the letter

“M” you can ﬁnd,

4' 5 6 starting at any
R L L “M” you like and
u ‘2 moving one square

at a time in any di—
rection. It is pos—

 

3

 

In
6

CG 39
O

 

    

:azﬂo:

UTZ

I'T'I°-<

2"...

 

N

N

N

X”

M
Di

 

>0: mo mi:

N

O’U’I

ml

24

 

 

:Dt:

 

(A

 

 

><“'°'CD83

”I

 

 

 

 

sible to get at least
ﬁfteen, but since
some of them are
rather unusual
animals you may
have to consult a
dictionary a f t e r
you get ten or
more. Correct an-
swers will be given
on this page next
month.

\I
I',,'

i,\ .. '| I.
I \\:‘\ I ‘l \ ,1,"\'/li
'1‘: '\(\I\\\l\\l|'I|l 'W‘ ""1 \(L -__L_j

New York Girl Adopts Fawn

LESTER EVANS

 

 

 

ESTHER RICKERSON AND THE FAWN

WHEN Esther Rickerson, 14, who lives on a farm near
Elmira, N. Y., recently heard dogs pursuing a deer, she
tried to stop them, but the deer, a doe, raced oﬂ’, seeking to
draw the dogs from a trembling little fawn, hidden in the
grass.

Fearful for the mother, and afraid the dogs might return,
Esther picked up the little creature and brought it home to
the farm barn, where she fed the soft-eyed youngster and
kept it several weeks. Meanwhile, her mother reported the inci-
dent to game commissioners who ruled that under the law the
fawn must be taken away. It was a tearful day for Esther.
Her one consolation was that the little animal escaped the
probable fate of her mother.

Answers to “Bafﬂing Birds” puzzle last month: Sandpipers,
swallows, pheasant, partridge, martins, kingﬁsher, orioles, red-
wings, canaries, woodpecker, pelicans, yellow hammers.

 

 

 

 




u mbA I? 1'

 

 

 

 

 

 

0E0 T

ANGELL {N 1868.AND FOR FoRTY‘ONE

The Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

The American Humane Education Society

The American Band of Mercy

I would not enter on my list of friends,

Though graced with polished manners and ﬁne sense,

Yet wanting sensibility, the man
Who needlessly sets foot upon a worm.
—COWPER

GOD

’

PEACE on EARTH,
Kmonsss, JUSTICE
AND Mancv TO
Evsnv Luvmo
CREATURE.

 

Published monthly by the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood, Massachusetts

Entered as second-class matter
Acceptance for mailing at special rat

, June 29, 1917, at the Post Ofﬁce at Norwood, Mass., under the Act of March 3, 1879
e of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 3, 1917, authorized, July 13, 1919

Boston Ofﬁce, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

 

Vol. 70

September, 1937

No. 9

 

Road Accidents to Dogs—Hints to Motor-
ists. You can render a real service to your
own and your neighbor’s dog if you will
send for our free leaﬂet with the above title
and distribute it generously.

According to a newspaper clipping that
has come to us, Turkey has banned the use
of the whip on cab and cart horses. In the
United States at least the majority of the
whip factories have had to go out of busi-
ness.

Who should decide whether or not this
country should declare war? A little hand-
ful of 267 men in Washington who will keep
well out of it themselves, or the men and
women of the country who will have to reap
the harvest of suffering and death, do the
ﬁghting and pay the taxes?

Word from Soﬁa, Bulgaria, says that all
the boys and girls of the American College
in that city, now organized in Bands of
Mercy, have faithfully promised, while at
home during the summer in their various
towns, to work in every practicable way
they can for the welfare of animals and to
awaken interest in the claims of animals
for just and humane treatment.

A letter from the Superintendent of
Agents of the Women’s Penn. S. P. C. A.,
Philadelphia, tells us of three convictions
recently secured against people for using
electriﬁed wire fences. In the ﬁrst convic-
tion, a horse and cow were killed; in the
second a horse, and in the third a cow. In
the ﬁrst case the voltage was 110, in the
second and third 120. We congratulate this
active Society upon its discovery of this
dangerous use of the electric fence. Our
understanding is that the authorized manu-
facturers of such fences provide a voltage
so low that no serious damage can be done
to the animal coming in contact with it. It
is certainly a dangerous thing to experi-
ment with.

In the Year 1883

LETTER has just been sent us from

the ofﬁce of the Secretary of the West-
ern Penn. Humane Society in Pittsburgh
which was written 54 years ago by George
Thorndike Angell, founder and ﬁrst Presi-
dent of our two Societies, to Leonard H.
Eaton, the President of the Pittsburgh So-
ciety. From that letter the following is
taken:

“There is one thing that every man of
wealth ought to know and carefully con-
sider—and that is, that crime is wonder-
fully increasing in this country and the
time is surely coming, and may come soon,
when unless we reach the masses, who go
to neither churches nor Sunday Schools, and
teach them mercy, truth, honor, God and
Immortality, investments and deposit vaults
will become unsafe, and there is no way,
in my judgment, in which these things can
be more readily and unobjectionably intro-
duced into our public schools than through
‘Bands of Mercy.’ ”

(Signed) GEORGE T. ANGELL

This might have been written yesterday.

Emerson once said: “In choosing or ad—
mitting a companion on your walks or
journeyings, one will generally fare better
to take a dog along.”

The “Glorious Fourth” is passed. But it
will come again and still again. In the
Taunton (Mass) Gazette, a few days be-
fore July 4th last, Mrs. Howard F. Wood-
ward, president of the Taunton Branch of
the Mass. S. P. C. A., had an excellent
letter pleading for our dogs and cats dur—
ing these periods of explosion from guns,
pistols and ﬁrecrackers. Many of the small
animals are terriﬁed by these unexpected
noises and hide away in great distress.
Why not take special pains to protect them
as far as possible from these days of noisy
celebration !

Race Prejudice

GAINST this evil thing, unjust, divi-

sive and cruel, our American Humane
Education Society has long contended. Its
roots run deep down into human character.
Seldom can it be eradicated. It generally
starts with the child and characterizes him
till he dies.

Where does it have its beginnings? Is the
mere fact of race responsible for it, or
color of the skin, or creed? That it grows
out of men’s differences in these respects
there can be no doubt. It’s not born with
us. The little child, be be white, or red,
0r black or yellow, plays with his fellow
child and neither race nor color nor creed
awaken in him this thing we call race
prejudice.

Where does the child acquire it? How
does it happen that the day comes when he
begins to call those who differ from him
by reason of birth in other lands or relig-
ious afﬁliations names he never could have
invented himself? We believe the answer to
this question is in the Home. Let him hear
father or mother or both call the Negro a
Nigger, or the Chinaman a Chink, or the
Italian a Wop or the Jew a Sheeny, and
what will happen? The child will take the
words into his vocabulary as naturally as
he drinks his milk, and a little later when
he sees one of these people by birth or creed
different from him he uses the same unkind,
intolerant and unchristian word he has
heard at home, and the race prejudice of
the Home is passed on for another genera—
tion.

These words that speak so loudly of race
prejudice may be heard, we grant, at school
by many scholars for the ﬁrst time, but
repeated in any home where they are never
used they are condemned as both unjust and
vulgar and then forgotten. Dear reader,
what about race prejudice in your Home?

In making your will, please remember
the Massachusetts Society for the Preven-
tion of Cruelty to Animals.

 

 

 




 

Page 182

pond and my patience was rewarded in hav-
ing them soon lose their sharp, natural fear
of me. If I made no sharp sudden moves I
could sit quite near them while they drank;
their watchful, alert, bright eyes on me,
the only sign that they were ready to ﬂee
at the ﬁrst intimation that I was danger—
ous. The sharp click of my camera, even,
soon lost its terror for them.

So if you can’t get to the woods, many
wild-life photos can be taken the same way,
if you have patience. If you are able to
explore the woods, many new and wonder-
ful sights are in store for you if you are a
camera-hunter.

Homing Instinct
LUCILE PRESCOTT

Through pastures strange I rode my horse
For wandering sheep, at night;

A rabbit leaped across the path
And my poor steed took fright.

He threw me oﬁ, and bolted for
The timber far away,

I made a fruitless search for him
Until the break of day.

Then wandering homeward through the
dawn,
Footsore from many a shard,
In glad surprise I found my horse

Right in the stable yard!

Sagacity of Arab Horse

A. GRACE GRAY

Sir John Lawrence, Viceroy of India in
1864, was fond of relating the following
story about his Arab horse, “Chanda.” He
was galloping home across country late one
night through the intense blackness of the
Indian night, when suddenly Chanda came
to a dead stop, nearly tossing his rider
over his head. All Lawrence’s attempts to
spurr him on were of no avail; Chanda re-
fused to move. Finally, after backing up
some distance and taking a wide circuit,
he was persuaded to continue in the former
direction.

Lawrence was considerably puzzled by
this unusual behavior on the part of Chan-
da, and the next day he managed to make
his way back to the scene of the incident.
To his horror he found that he had ridden
at full gallop right up to a large, open
underground tank or cistern. In India,
where water is scarce, these tanks are not
uncommon. This particular one was about
thirty feet deep and one step more would
have meant certain death for both horse
and rider.

Lawrence never forgot his miraculous de-
liverance. Often afterwards, in pointing
out the best qualities of a horse, he would
remark upon the full, round, prominent eye
which, able to perceive objects invisible to
man, had caught sight of the yawning
chasm immediately below him in the dark-
ness of that memorable night. One day, as
he was visiting in the studio of an artist
friend, he paused to admire a splendid
painting of a horse’s head. “It was an eye
like that,” he exclaimed, “which saved my
life.”

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

“Calamity Jane”
JUDY VAN DER VEER

E were sitting on the Andrews’ lawn

and the dogs were playing with the
little boy, Jimmie. I felt a dog come in
back of me and nose my neck, and I reached
around absent-mindedly to pet him as I
talked. My ﬁngers 'felt something that
didn’t seem like a dog, and I turned around.
There was a colt, so tiny one could almost
put her in a pocket. She looked down at
me with impish eyes, and lipped my out-
stretched hand. Then she kicked up a pair
of miniature heels and cavorted oﬂ", racing
with the dogs as if she were a dog, too.
Jimmie joined the race, and soon the colt
and the boy were tumbling on the grass
like two puppies.

Jimmie’s father laughed. “That’s ‘Ca-
lamity Jane,’ ” he said, and told us the colt’s
story. She was named Calamity because
early in life she had known tragedy. Her
mother was an Indian pony and when the
colt was still very wobbly she got sepa-
rated from her mother when horses were
rounded up on the Reservation. The mother
headed off across the hills with a wild band
and because Calamity couldn’t keep up she
was thrown in with the herd of captured
ponies. When the riders were'ready to
start home they waited around, thinking
that the mother would return for her colt.
Evidently she was too frightened, for she
didn’t come back. The men didn’t want to
go away and leave such a young colt alone,
so J immie’s father brought her home.

From then on the Andrews family was
busy. The colt became a bottle baby, cow’s
milk with sugar in it was fed to her every
two hours. Jimmie and his mother and
dad worked in shifts feeding Calamity;
they even had to get up in the night to
feed her. Colts are in the habit of nursing
often, and not drinking too much at a time.
In order for Calamity to live and grow she
must be on a schedule as much as possible
like the one Mother Nature plans for colts.

Calamity soon forgot her mother, but I
often think how the poor little wild mare
must have hunted for her foal and called
for her across the hills. Calamity made
herself at home, she regarded the Andrews
family as her parents, and she whinnered
shrilly when feeding time came around.
They said she grew to be like an alarm
clock.

She was allowed her freedom around the
ranch and it was her delight to come in the
house with the dogs, every time the door
was open. She was as much at home in
the house as she was in a barn; in fact,
too much. For early one morning she got
the back door open and walked in to explore
the kitchen. Somehow, someway, she got the
ice—box open and enjoyed a delightful time
until she awakened the family and was
(literally) thrown out. Before she was dis—
covered she had scrambled the breakfast
eggs all over the ﬂoor, she had picked out
the tomatoes, one by one, and squeezed them
to pulp before they joined the eggs. She ate
a head of lettuce and was delighted with a
chocolate bar that was the property of
young Jimmie. When she tired of the ice-
box (perhaps her little nose got too cold) she
sampled the kitchen curtains. They were
pretty good, so she tore them all down.

Dee. 1937

 

“CALAMITY JANE” WITH JIMMIE

Mrs. AndreWs was worried because ahead
of her was the job of cleaning the kitchen,
Jimmie felt badly because his candy was
gone, but Mr. Andrews was frightened for
fear Calamity would have indigestion. She
didn’t.

Now Calamity is nearly half a year old
and she is turning into a roan pony, very
pretty. She has beautiful trim legs and a
lovely little head, and she is everyone’s
friend. Mr. Andrews says she will never
be “bigger than a minute” and she won’t
be worth ﬁve cents, but he wouldn’t take
ﬁve hundred dollars for her.

Now the family are going to move to
another state and all the horses must be
sold—except, of course, Calamity. When
buyers come to look at horses Calamity is
the ﬁrst to greet them. Mr. Andrews pro-
tests that she is interfering with sales, for
people start playing with her and don’t
care to look at the others. Everyone wants
to buy her. If any one drops a handker-
chief Calamity gravely picks it up and
hands it to him, then politely offers to shake
hands. By the time she has followed any
one across the pasture that person is sure
to ask to buy her.

“Nope,” Mr. Andrews says, “My boy
Jimmie would make life miserable for me
if I sold that colt.” But that isn’t the only
reason. The fact is that Charlie Andrews,
horse trader, has at last found an animal
he hasn’t the heart to “trade off.” Calamity
has won him, completely.

So I have a mental picture of the An—
drews family moving. Mother and father
will be in the front seat of their car, and
in back with the baggage will be Jimmie
and the dogs. And riding beside Jimmie
will be Calamity, happy and contented to
go wherever her folks go.

The hideous “frizzled chicken” scratching
at some colored family’s cabin has a long
and happy life ahead of him—or her. There
is a superstition that this kind of chicken
scratches up any “charms” or “conjures”
which are buried by enemies. Some humble
people—white and colored—will go hungry
before they will kill and eat a “frizzled” hen
or rooster.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 108

A Dog’s “If”
BLANCHE BUTLER

Apologies to Kipling

If I can be a dog my Master’s proud of,
And never bark, or growl or even whine;
If I can keep my heart so full of love,
That I can go hungry while I watch Him
dine;
If I can wait, and not get tired of waiting,
When He forgets to take me for a walk;
If I can keep my loyal heart from hating,
The things He says in foolish, idle talk;
If I can comfort Him when He’s in trouble,
And not intrude upon His privacy too
much; -
If I can let Him know I love Him double,
And wait in patience for His loving touch;
If I can do the tricks He tries to teach me,
And never let Him know how tired I am;
If I can be as smart as He still thinks me,
And fetch and carry all the things I can;
If I can be His friend when others fail Him,
And worship in the path His feet have
trod;
If I can do these things and still more for
Him,
Then I’ll know that I’ve been faithful to
my God.

Chicken-Killing Dog

L. D. CHAPMAN

FEW years ago, I had a fox terrier
puppy that I was very choice of and
wanted to keep, but in the early spring I
was almost at my wit’s end to know what to
do with him. “Billy,” as we called him, was
born in the middle of the winter and when
the newly hatched chickens began to arrive
he was about ten weeks old and his chief de-
light was killing chickens. We tried every—
thing we could think of to break him from
the habit, but nothing seemed to have any
affect on Billy. When he saw a ﬂock of
chickens, he would plunge among them,
catching one in his mouth, then he would
give it a toss in the air and grab another.
At last as we were about to give up and
have Billy killed, I hit on a plan which we
decided to try before ending Billy’s career.
Among our ﬂock of hens was an old red
hen, she was part Cornish Indian Game, and
a real ﬁghter, and we concluded to have her
give Billy a lesson, in the hope that she
might teach him something.

The old hen had just hatched a ﬂock of
chickens, and while she was ﬁery at all
times, she was a regular pepperbox when
she had a ﬂock of chickens. The hen and
chicks were in a little two by four foot coop
with slats across the front. Taking the
chicks out, I slipped Billy in to get a little
motherly advice. Instantly the hen set on
him with beak, claws and wings, and such a
commotion as followed!

Billy yelped and the hen bit and clawed.
At last, with a tremendous effort, he broke
through the slats and ﬂed to the safety of
the woods. From that day he would never
go near a chicken, and if one approached
him, he would get away as quickly as pos-
sible. The old hen had taught him more in
ﬁve minutes than the best dog trainer could
in a month. I have tried the same method

on chicken-killing cats, with the same satis-
factory results.

OUR DUMB

 

ANIMALS

July, 1937

A BASKETFUL OF UNADULTERATED JOY

A Mongrel Who Earned a
Victory Medal

GEORGE A. KELLY

IS name was “Copper.” He was just

an everyday mongrel dog who roamed
here, there and everywhere about this big
city, looking for a pat on the head, or an
invitation to partake of a few scraps of
food, or a few sips of clean water. As such
an invitation was not forthcoming, he de-
cided in his own dumb manner to crawl
into an alley, out of the way of humanity,
and trust to canine providence, or whatever
it is they trust to.

It was in an alley that I came across him
one sultry day in the month of July, while
I was making my round of inspection on
my beat in the poor section of Roxbury.
He was curled up on an old discarded
mattress in a dark corner. He looked at
me with sad eyes, wagged his scraggy tail
as I patted him on the head, and rolled over
on his side, yawned and put his fate into
my hands.

I obtained a piece of rope, tied it around
his neck, and in a kind tone of voice I said
to him: “Come on, old boy, I am going to
get you a bite to eat.”

Taking him into the kitchen of one of the
lunch rooms in that section, I had the cook
ﬁx him up with a plate of scraps and a pan
of milk, which he devoured with great gusto.
Having in mind an old Irish woman who
was looking for a canine pet, I took him to
her, and with many blessings on my head
she accepted him, and before I took my
leave of her, we decided to call him
Copper because he was the gift of “the
Cop on the beat.”

The following evening when I came on
duty, there was my friend waiting for me
at the car stop, and each day thereafter,
rain, shine or whatever, Copper would be
waiting for me, fall in alongside of me and
remain with me until I went off duty, until
eventually we were the talk of the neigh-
borhood.

One evening about a year later my atten-
tion was attracted by a hue and cry of “a

g

hold-up in a chain store” and I was just
in time to see the culprit sprinting down
the street. We took after him and chased
him in back of a row of houses, where he
ran into one of the cellars. As they all
looked alike, I was confused for a minute,
and had just made up my mind to search
each one separately, when I heard Copper
barking loudly several doors away.

I went into the same, and there was
Copper sitting outside the wood-shed, and
Mr. Hold-up man was perched on top of
the boards which enclosed it, while his gun
lay at the feet of my faithful companion.

I placed him under arrest, and on the
way to the police box to pull for the patrol
wagon, Copper insisted on walking between
him and me, with his tail held high, and
never once taking his eyes off the face of
Mr. Crook, and I am sure that, if the man
had made a break for his freedom, Copper
would have sunk his teeth into one of his
legs and thereby prevented his attempt.

When he was being booked at the sta-
tion house it came to light that he was
wanted by several cities for the same
offense, and if it had not been for Copper,
I am forced to admit that the man would
have made good his escape.

In return for his deed, I bought Copper
a nice fancy collar, and to it I attached
my World War victory medal, which bore
the following inscription:

“TO COPPER, MY PET, A REAL COP!
WHO JUSTLY EARNED THIS MEDAL
FOR HIS PART IN CATCHING A PUB-
LIC ENEMY.”

Retired Workers’ Fund

E are receiving gifts to the American

Humane Education Society as a trust
fund, the interest to be used for the bene-
ﬁt of ﬁeld missionaries and others who have
spent their lives in promoting humane edu-
cation. Already several cases have come
to our attention and are being relieved in
this way. We will welcome your contribu-
tion to this fund. Please make checks pay—
able to Treasurer, American Humane Edu-
cation Society, 180 Longwood Avenue,
Boston.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

City Zoo

There’s the city 200 with its kangaroo,
When you tire of the haunts of men;

The lion is there, and the Polar bear
And the A frican. jungle-hen.

The porcupine in quaint design
Is bored by the restive seal;

And the garter—snake by the midget lake
Mothers an orphan eel.

The coyotes scream in a prairie dream
And wake to a dull despair;

And the hairy ape that seeks escape
Measures his prison lair.

The tick of time is out of rhyme
Where. wild things wait for death,

Watching the stars through iron bars
And breathing each other’s breath.

But little man with his civic plan
To conquer and subdue, .

Acquires a thrill from the broken will
Of beasts in a city zoo.

VIVIAN TEISER LARAMORE
(Poet Laureate of Florida)

They Say: But—

ABBOTT

LIMY as a serpent: It would be diﬂi-
S cult to conceive of a more inaccurate
expression. Reptiles are practically devoid
of glands in the skin, and the body of a
snake instead of being slimy is smooth and
polished like glass. Slimy as a ﬁsh or a
frog, if you like, but not “as a serpent.”

Wise as an owl: I have observed a great
many owls and have never seen anything
in their behavior to cause me to believe
them wiser than other birds. Their eyes
are placed in front of the face, and both
focus simultaneously upon the same ﬁeld of
View; that is, owls have binocular vision.
This peculiarity gives. them something of
human aspect. Like most humans, however,
they are not wise but merely appear so.

Blind as a bat: This is said of them prob—
ably, because we usually see them at their
worst; that is, in the daytime. They see
amazingly well in dim light, and anyone
watching them catch mosquitoes at twilight
cannot choose but envy.

Crazy as a loon: A terrible slander on an
astute feathered citizen. Try to shoot him
and watch him dive before the shot can,
reach him. His wild, laughing call does
sound maniacal perhaps to us, but not to
other loons. Besides he is not talking to us.

Quick as a cat: This expression over-
rates the cat. A graceful, smoothly mov—
ing animal, it is true, but no quicker than
a fox squirrel, and slow as compared to a
weasel. Watch a monkey moving through a
tree-top and draw your own conclusions.

Ferocious as a gorilla: A slur upon the
reputation of man’s closest living relative.
According to Carl Akely—and he knew go-
rillas—they are mild, inoffensive creatures
vastly less harmful and dangerous than the
men who hunt them.

Dirty as a pig: Anyone viewing a pig
conﬁned in a filthy, narrow pen might well
believe the animal to be dirty, but a pig is
not dirty in actual fact. Under these con-
ditions, the animal is ﬁlthy simply because
he cannot help himself. Give him a chance

ROY L.

OUR DUMB ANIM‘ALS

to be clean and he will be as clean as a
horse or a cow.

Strong as a lion: A powerful beast,
truly, but some recent tests conducted in a
zoo showed the tiger to be much stronger
than the lion when compared pound for
pound of weight. Roosevelt says that a lion
can run a hundred yards from a standing
start in) about four seconds. If this is true,
the lion is about the fastest creature for
his weight I know of, and the above expres-
sion might appropriately be changed to:
“Swift as a lion.”

Shine like a cat’s eyes in the dark: Pick
up your favorite “Tabby,” if you will, and
carry her into some very dark place—say a
clothes closet—and then observe whether or
not her eyes shine in the dark. The eyes
of many mammals (the cat is a common
example) possess a peculiar, light—reﬂecting
layer, the tapetum. This reﬂects so much
light as to make their eyes visible in the
dark when light is thrown upon them from
some outside source—an automobile head-
light for example. They shine under these-
conditions, but not otherwise, many novel-
ists to the contrary notwithstanding.

The above are only a few of the many
popular fallacies concerning animals. Not
all popular expressions about animals are
bad, however. “Sly as a fox,” “swift as an
antelope,” “cross as a bear,” “slimy as an
eel,”——these, and many more like them, are
all accurate and useful expressions.

Tail-Shedding Lizards

L. D. CHAPMAN

F the many species of lizard that

inhabit all parts of the world, the most
curious is that whose tail drops off when
the little creature is frightened.

. There are certain kinds that live in
South America, and also others which in-
habit the Southern States of North Ameri-
ca, that have this peculiar method of escap-
ing from their enemies. This seems to be
a triﬂing casualty on the part of the lizard,
apparently just a wily stratagem which
he displays when besieged by a more pow-
erful foe.

When captured, which is by no means
an easy task, these lizards make no violent
effort to escape, but with a most droll
expression, eye their captor, soon winning
his conﬁdence, which is as quickly betrayed.

Seemingly passive, the lizard will, at the
most unexpected moment, make a violent
struggle in which the tail comes loose from
the body, and before one has recovered

Apr. 1937

from his surprise, no lizard is to be seen,
only the tail remains in, evidence which
for some little time twists about with as
much vigor as when attached to its owner.

This method of self-mutilation, on the
part of the lizard, offers a remarkable in-
stance of protection. The animal has no
weapons of defense, and being compara—
tively slow of foot, cannot seek safety in
ﬂight as other more active animals do.
Thus, the breaking off of a portion of the
tail, which, still alive and twisting about by
reﬂex action, attracts the attention of its
enemy, and the lizard unencumbered and
unnoticed, slips away and is safely hidden
in some crevice, before its enemy has recov—
ered from the surprise at the marvelous
amputation.

The muscles of the tail are so arranged
that by contraction, when the tail drops off,
they close at once over the place of ampu-
tation and bleeding is prevented. From the
blunted appendage, a new rudiment of a
tail soon appears, which in a short time re-
places the lost part, thus giving the crea-
ture a new lease of life.

The same tail-break facts are also true of
a certain small snail, found in the Philip-
pines, whose tail will break off if seized.
As it is more highly colored than any other
part of the body, it is the most conspicuous
point for seizure, but the bird or animal
that takes hold there gets nothing but a
wriggling tip for its pains, while the snail
drops to the ground uninjured and hides
away in safety.

It is stated that fully ten per cent of
both lizard and snail specimens taken, show
scars of the previous loss of the tail.

 

 

Our Dumb Animals

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,

Massachusetts.
Avenue.

Address all communications to Boston.
TERMS
Postage free to any part of

Boston Ofﬁce :

180 Longwood

One dollar per year.
the world.

All dollar subscriptions sent direct to the office en-
title the sender to membership in either of our two
Societies.

RATES OF MEMBERSHIP IN
THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
OR THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.
Active Life
Associate Life
Sustaining

$100 00

Active Annual $10 00
50 00

Associate Annual 5 00
20 00 Annual 1 00
Children’s $0.75

Checks and other payments may be sent to ALBERT
.3. POLLARD, Treasurer, 180 Longwood Avenue,
oston.

Manuscripts should be addressed to the Editor, 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston.

 

 

TO OUR FRIENDS

In making your will, kindly bear in mind that the corporate title of our Society is “The
Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals”: that it is the second
incorporated (March, 1868) Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals in the country
and that it has no connection with any other similar Society. ’

Any bequest especially intended for the beneﬁt of the Angel] Memorial Animal Hospital

should, nevertheless, be made to The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals “for the use of the Hospital,” as the H

property of that Society and is conducted by it.

FORM OF BE QUEST

I give to The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelt to An'
to The American Humane Education Society), y lmals (or

dollars (or, if other property, describe the property).

ospital is not incorporated but is the

the sum of

 

 

 

w . ~‘—.‘- «3-: v— - w?! "V‘Wv (ej- ~' WA nsgé-LM:‘AM',P-—‘. ‘V‘.""~ '

a—a

 

 

 

 




 

Dec. 1937

Harmless Hunting

CLARENCE MANSFIELD LINDSAY

In the woods in winter,
When deep lies the snow

In the forest aisles, and
Bron/cs no longer flow;

Then I do my hunting,
But not with a gun!

No; I follow signs which
Show which way has run

Hardy forest dwellers,
Wand’ring through the wood,

Making tell-tale tracks while
Seeking for their food!

Here has raced a weasel!
Here a rabbit sped!

Here the tiny deer-mouse
Shipped with noiseless tread!

Here some sly opossum
Left a curious trail!

Here the woodchuck' foraged!
Yonder brushed a quail!

Really, there’s more proﬁt,
And a lot more fun,

Puzzling out these signs than
Stalking with a gun. .

The Little Sparrow

L. D. CHAPMAN

NE cold winter morning, when the

temperature was hovering close to zero,
and the snow was blowing until it was im—
possible to see more than a few yards, I was
sitting by a roaring ﬁre, thanking my lucky
star that I was not obliged to go out.

Suddenly I heard a faint tapping on the
window. Glancing towards it, I saw a
couple of little sparrows sitting on the win-
dow-sill. One of them was pecking on the
glass as though to say, “Let us come in
where it is warm.” Going to the window, I
raised it a few inches. The birds showed
little fear, continuing to hop around on the
window-sill and seeming to enjoy the
warmth from the room, as much as I did.

Thinking the little birds might be hungry,
as everything outside was covered with
snow, I got a slice of bread and placed it
on the window-sill. When I approached the
window, the birds hopped away a short dis-
tance but soon returned when I went back
to my chair. The way those little birds
started in on that slice of bread was a
cheering sight on a stormy day. Soon more
birds came until there were more than a
dozen of them hopping about on the win—
dow-sill, picking at the bread.

When the birds had eaten their ﬁll, they
flew away to the shed where they lived.
Late in the afternoon, however, they were
back again, tapping for admittance to the
warmth and food. From then on, during
the reSt of the cold stormy weather, it was
a regular occurrence twice a day for the
little birds to come to the window, where
there was always some food for them.

AlthOugh sparrows are classed as pests,
they are a cheering sight on a cold stormy
day, when nearly all other birds have gone
to a warmer clime. Their happy chirping
will more than repay for what little food
they eat.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Page] 81

Coaxing Wild Animals to Pose

ADA M. MORGAN

ORE and more modern hunters are
shooting with cameras instead of
guns. They are discovering that there are
more thrills and adventures in capturing
and recording animals on ﬁlm than there are
in destroying them. They are ﬁnding it is
something to be proud of
when some elusive creature of
the wild is cunningly stalked
so well that its likeness and
habits are forever recorded.
With a camera instead of
gun your quarry must still be
outwitted or patiently waited
for. Like the gun-hunter, the
camera-hunter sometimes is
disappointed in not being able
to ﬁnd exactly what he
wishes. Hardly, however is
his time wasted, for this type
of hunter has eyes that
search and ﬁnd the many un-
obtrusive beauties of the
woodlands.

For the camera-hunter who
wants pictures of wild ani-
mals, there is one important
place to which he is sure to
ﬁnd many different animals
coming at times. That is a
“salt lick.” These salt licks
are natural wet, salty places
that are found throughout
most of North America. To
these places come deer, cari—
bou, elk, moose, mountain
sheep and goats, wild horses
and cattle, rabbits, porcupines
and other animals that live
inthat part of the country.

Such places are ideal “hunt-
ing grounds” for wild-life
photos. Anyone with a little
knowledge, lots of patience,
and persistency, will learn
much from watching there.

If natural licks are lacking
you can make your own
by putting rock-salt on the
ground, between stones, or in holes bored in
logs. Be very careful, however, whom you
let know about these study spots of yours,
for the acute sense of smell of animals
soon helps them to locate the artiﬁcial licks
and it would be wanton destruction for any-
body to hunt there with a gun. Nearly
every living animal likes salt, and it would
be very cruel to coax them to their deaths
by catering to their natural appetite.

Most animals come to the licks at night,
but by alertness and patience some ﬁne day-
light pictures may be taken. In early morn-
ing or evening is a good time.

Deer can be taken by daylight if a blind
is built with a string running to the cam-
era, set some distance away. I have taken
several that way, simply by watching and
observing the habits of the deer that visit
the licks, then focusing my camera where
they usually come. A sharp whistle, when
the deer is in the right place, will cause
it to stop and look. That is the time to
snap quickly.

Good food bait for deer is freshly cut
bushes saturated with salt water, or cabbage
leaves, potato peelings or turnips, especi-

 

ally when sprinkled with salt.

Muskrats can be coaxed out in the eve.-
ning by their love for carrots and celery.
Put the food bait on a log near the. water
and their keen noses will quickly lead them
to it.

BUCK IN THE VELVET, SHOT-—WITH A CAMERA

Porcupines have a keen appetite for al-
most anything saturated with salt. Squir-
rels like nuts and corn, and mice or rats
like cheese sandwiches.

Toads are easily coaxed into the open at
night if a bright light is turned on. They
come to eat the insects that are attracted
by the light.

Fish, even, can be photographed in very
clear water if the surface is shaded from
direct sunlight, and when the bottom of the
pool is light colored. This is more difficult,
however, and takes a great deal of search-
ing and patience.

Although more subjects will be found
in the country, it is not necessary to live
there to get photos of many interesting
small animals. Some of the most absorbing
hours of my nature studying were spent by
a ﬁsh pond in my back-yard on the edge of
a city.

There I saw dozens of birds, snakes,
squirrels, quail, and even a turtle. All
came to drink, but they came so quietly, so
softly, that no one would have suspected
they were near unless on the watch for
them. For months they came to visit my

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 90

  
 
  
  

7

9
m
2".

    
   
  
 

GLORY TO
GOD,
PEACE ON EARTH,
KINDNESS, JUSTICE 0
AND MERCY TO
EVERY LIVING
CREATURE.

  
    
      
 

Founded by Geo. T. Angell

For rates of membership in both of our Societies
see back cover. Checks should be made payable to
Treasurer.

Incorporated 1889

Ofﬁcers of the American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds ,
JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First
Boston Corporation
CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President, United Shoe
Machinery Corporation

PHILIP STOCKTON, President, First National Bank of
Boston

Foreign Corresponding Representatives

George B. Duff ................... Australia
Luis Pareja Cornejo ............... Ecuador
Charles A. Williams .............. France
Leonard T. Hawksley ............. Italy
Mrs. Mary P. E. Nitobe .......... Japan
Mrs. Marie C. E. Houghton ....... Madeira
Dr. A. T. Ishkanian .............. Mexico
Joaquin Julia ..................... Spain
Mrs. Alice W. Manning ........... Turkey

Humane Press Bureau
Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke, Secretary
180 Longwood Ave., Boston
Field Workers of the Society
Mrs. Alice L. Park, Palo Alto, California
Mrs. Jennie R. Nichols, Tacoma, Washington
James D. Burton, Harriman, Tennessee
Mrs. Katherine Weathersbee, Atlanta, Georgia
Rev. F. Rivers Barnwell, Fort Worth, Texas
MISS Blanche Finley, Richmond, Virgina
Rev. John W. Lemon, Ark, Virginia
M1ss Lucia F. Gilbert, Boston, Massachusetts
Mrs. Jennie R. Toomim, Chicago, Illinois
Seymour Carroll, Columbia, South Carolina
Rev. R. E. Griffith, De Land, Florida
Field Representative
Wm. F. H. Wentzel, M. S., Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
Field Lecturer in Massachusetts
Ella A. Maryott

SUMMARY OF ACTIVITIES OF FIELD
WORKERS FOR APRIL, 1937

Number of Bands of Mercy formed, 755
Number of addresses made, 356

Number of persons in audiences, 54,970

Mr. Wentzel in the South

Through the efforts of Seymour Carroll,
ﬁeld representative of the American Hu—
mane Education Society in Columbia, South
Carolina, Wm. F. H. Wentzel, of Pittsburgh,
visited South Carolina for a very strenuous
speaking trip, May 8 to 11. In this brief
period Mr. Wentzel lectured on humane edu-
cation before six colleges, addressed High
and graded schools, and, in addition, spoke

before a church audience and over a radio
station.

I am misanthropos, and hate mankind.
For thy part, I do wish thou wert a dog
that I might love thee something.

SHAKESPEARE’S “Timon of Athens”

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Do You Want to Do a
Fine Thing?

F you are one of that great host in this

country who would do all in your power
to save this country from participation in
another war, I beg of you to write to your
representative in Congress, urging that
DISCHARGE PETITION No. 11 may be given
most serious consideration.

This Discharge Petition has been presented
by Mr. Lewis Ludlow of Indiana, a member
of the House. It calls for an amendment to
the Constitution whereby before this country
enters into a war the question shall be
submitted by a referendum to the people.

Do we realize that, at present, Congress
has the power to declare war;' that 531
members of Congress must decide for
125,000,000 people whether we shall be in-
volved in another unspeakable horror such
as that that fell upon the world in 1914?
And more than that, it only takes, out of
that number of 531, 267 votes to commit
the country to a step which means the sacri-
ﬁce of unnumbered thousands of our ﬁnest
youth, which means the breaking up of
homes by sending to their doom husbands
and brothers and sons to be blown to pieces,
to die in trenches at the hands of men
against whom they have no grievance.

We have long advocated this idea em—
bodied in the Discharge Petition of Mr. Lud—
low. Write, we beseech you, to your Con-
gressman calling attention to your desire to
see Discharge Petition No. 11 given every
possible consideration.

Good Work in Cuba

Electa Fe de la Pena, special representa-
tive of the American Humane Education
Society, with her headquarters in Matan—
zas, Cuba, circulated 80,500 copies of a large
circular with an elaborate endorsement of
Be Kind to Animals Week, by Dr. Lorenzo
Delgado Diaz, Provincial Governor of Ma-
tanzas, and a letter of her own addressed to
her educational colleagues and pupils. She
also placed 129 national Be Kind to Animals
posters in the ofﬁces of members of the
Board of Education and of the various
school superintendents in Cuba. Here is a
brief summary of a portion of the work
done by her in the past seven months:
“Two hundred letters sent out, signed by
the Governor and written by me. Have sent
to the six military posts of the Island hu—
mane literature, ﬁrst to be read and then
to be given out to the soldiers. Literature
sent to all the six Governors, to the six
superintendents, to magistrates, lawyers,
other prominent men, to eight radio stations
throughout Cuba, to private schools, to the
26 public and private schools of Matanzas,
to the 123 Boards of Education in Cuba,
each accompanied by a letter written by
hand by me, and to diplomats.” She also had
printed a four-page leaﬂet of “The Ten
Commandments of the Be Kind to Animals
Week,” which has been widely distributed,
1,000 copies having been sent to department
stores which promised to put one into each
parcel delivered.

A gentleman is one who never inﬂicts
paln. CARDINAL NEWMAN

June, 1937

Where a Little Money
Would Count

ERE is the story in as few words as
possible. At the Fort Valley Normal and
Industrial School at Fort Valley, Georgia,
are three faithful ﬁne old mules, around

, twenty years or more of age. They have

dragged the plow and the harrow, the
reaper and the mower, as part of the farm
work in which some of the pupils are being
trained. Their day of service is over. They
are worn out and tired. The school must
have new ones. A dealer has agreed to
take the three old mules for part payment
and sell them a new span. The school feels
it ought not to give them up. It wants to
keep them for a little time of rest in their
old age. Don’t you want to give something
to make the last years of these faithful
old servants a little happier? We will
gladly send it on to the school, if you do.

“Nature Magazine” an
Organ of Conservatism

Nature Magazine comes forward to bear
a goodly share in the organization of con-
servationists. Nature Magazine publishes
month by month a bulletin of conservation
news and comment of such value that no
conservationist can afford to be without it.
Read Nature’s Conservation Department; if
you are wise, you will never miss it.
Nature now offers a further service. In the
issue of January, 1937, appears this notice:

“Conservation-minded readers of Nature
Magazine who wish to be kept advised of
special problems that arise between issues
of Nature Magazine may have their names
placed on a list to receive special conserva-
tion bulletins, information and calls to ac-
tion. Just write to the Conservation De-
partment, Nature Magazine, Washington,
D. C., and ask to be placed on the special
conservation list.”

All who are truly interested in the preser-
vation of wild life will take advantage of
this offer.

From Emergency Conservation Committee

American Fondouk, Fez

Report for March. 1937 —-— 31 Days

Daily average large animals 40.7
Forage for same $ 68.20
Put to sleep 26 3.17
Transportation 5.42
Daily average dogs 9.4
Forage for same 6.82
Wages, grooms watchmen and stable-boys 55.11
Superintendent’s salary 116.00
Veterinary’s salary 21.10
Motor ambulance upkeep 16.92
Motor bicycle upkeep 1.77
Sundries 80.46
Actual Operating Expenses ' $374.97
Building Upkeep Account 1.03

$376.00

Entries: 6 horses, 8 mules, 73 donkeys.

Exits: 7 horses, 11 mules, 41 donkeys.

Outpatients treated: 72 horses, 76 mules, 64 don-
keys, 2 dogs, 1 cat.

Other fondouks visited: 70, all native fondouks.

SUPERINTENDENT’S NOTES: 304 cases investi-
gated, 3,431 animals seen, 769 animals treated, 46
animals transferred to Fondouk, 14 pack-saddles (in-
fected) destroyed.

’ G. DELON, Superintendent

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 131;
To a Sea Bird

Sauntering hither on listless wings
Careless vagabond of the sea,
Little thou heed’st the surf that sings,
The bar that thunders, the shale that
rings,—
Give me to keep thy company. . . .

All of thy wanderings, far and near
Bring thee at last to shore and me;

All of my journeyings end them here,

This our tether must be our cheer,—
I on the shore and thou on the sea.

Lazily rocking on ocean’s breast,
Something in common, old friend, have
we,
Thou on the shingle seekest thy nest,
I to the waters look for rest,—
I on the shore and thou on the sea.

FRANCIS BRET HARTE

What to Do for Lost Birds

CCASIONALLY, small birds are seen

away from their nests, ﬂuttering around,
apparently lost, and possibly injured. Many
persons have inquired what to do with these
small birds. The best thing to do, perhaps,
is to leave them alone; or to place them on
a roof or in some other place out of harm’s
way where cats can not reach them. Do not
hide them in places where the parent birds
will not be able to ﬁnd them. If left alone,
the parents as a rule will ﬁnd them. It is
useless to try to put the small birds back
into their nests. Once a bird leaves the
nest it never returns. And don’t take the
birds into the home and try to feed them.
It is a difﬁcult job, and the birds will prob-
ably die from lack of the proper food and
care. It is illegal, also, to have most birds
in captivity without a special permit, even
though a person may think it is kindness to
the bird. Nothing is gained by sending the
birds to experiment stations and the birds
may be harmed by the travel. In nine times
out of ten, the small bird is better off if left
alone for the parents to ﬁnd and to rear.

PAUL KELLOG, N. Y. State College of
Agriculture

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Sept. 1937

Killdeer Neighbors

ALVIN M.

I

PETERSON

Photograph by the Author

plover to be found in many places.

Early in March it usually returns from
its southern winter home to Spend the
spring, summer and autumn with us. I usu-
ally hear the ﬁrst migrating killdeer before
I see it, as it ﬂies by high overhead and
shrilly calls “kill-dee, kill-dee.” Then a
glance heavenward usually at once enables
me to see it, a silvery object far above me.

A little later I hear it in the garden and
ﬁelds, where it calls and ﬂits from place to
place while busily feeding upon stray bits
of food it is able to ﬁnd. It is rather a
neighborly bird, seeming to prefer gardens
and low-lying, bare ﬁelds to grass and pas—
ture lands, no doubt because it is able to
ﬁnd more suitable food in such places.

Still later it becomes quite noisy when
courting and selecting a nesting site. In
May and June I frequently hear it at night,
especially if there is a bright moon, as well
as off and on all day, and there usually are
two or more of the birds. It is an early
riser and usually becomes noisy long be-
fore the sun rises in the northeast. It has
much work to do and must be up and
about its affairs long before most humans
are awake in the morning.

The killdeer nests in ﬁelds and gardens,
preferably in a ﬁeld or garden plowed and
cultivated and hoed the previous year. The
nest is nothing but a slight depression in
the ground lined with a little grass, a few
weed stalks, bits of paper and the like,
although nests are to be found that have
no lining, the eggs being deposited on the
bare ground. One of the ﬁrst nests I ever
found had been prepared amid the ruins of
a ﬁreworks display in a city park. Another,
found a few years later, had been built in
an old watermelon patch. Part of the mel-
ons had not been harvested the previous
autumn and had been left lying in the
ﬁeld, where they had spoiled, decayed,
crumbled until only small bits of crisp, dry
rind remained. Amid the ruins of a once

THE killdeer is by far the most common

 

THIS KILLDEER, AT HER NEST, STOOD UP JUST AS
THE CAMERA CLICKED

juicy and delicious melon the killdeer had
built—a slight depression and many bits
of rind constituting the nest.

I ﬁnd the nests of killdeer in my garden
each year and do my best to. save them,
sometimes leaving small patches of ground
about them unplowed, again keeping at a
distance when cultivating and hoeing. A
nest we tried to save by means of a patch
of unplowed ground one spring met with
disaster a little later. There were many
wind and dust storms that spring, and a
Violent one struck us about the time incuba-
tion was well under way in the killdeer’s
cradle. Sand and dust swirled about the
nest and eggs, completely burying them. I
had a stake set near the nest to mark its
location, and only by means of this was I
able to ﬁnd any trace of the eggs, for they
were covered with sand to a depth of six
inches. I carefully removed the sand from
the eggs, but the mother bird never re-
turned to them.

The killdeer is an expert at feigning in-
jury when you get near its nest. There are
three steps to the misleading ruse. At ﬁrst,
when you are at a distance and incubation
is not far advanced, it runs off until it
ﬁnds a suitable depression, all the while
uttering shrill “kill—dee” notes. When it
ﬁnds a suitable depression, it squats as if
snuggling down upon its eggs, as much as
to say: “Look, here I have hidden my nest.
See, I am sitting down upon my eggs.” Ad-
vance, and the bird runs rapidly off until
it ﬁnds another depression and there re-
peats the ruse. Usually both birds of a pair
take part in this little game of hide-and-
seek, one in front, the other farther off to
the rear or either side. '

Get too near a nest when incubation is
farther advanced and one or both birds cry
“kill-dee,” prostrate themselves on the
ground, spread their tails until the reddish-
brown and other shades show to advantage,
spread and ﬂap their wings, and say “dee,
dee” in a long rapidly delivered series. Ad-
vance a few steps and off they go, crying
loudly and soon repeating the performance.

Actually locate the nest and stop to exam—
ine it, or work near it, either plowing,
planting, cultivating or hoeing, when incu-
bation is far advanced, and, quite likely,
the mother stands up, partly spreads her
wings, refuses to move, makes a terrible
face, at least so my son insists, and cries
out as if in great distress. Taken all in all
there are few birds that carry the feigning-
injury ruse farther than the killdeer.

Animal Welfare in Taunton

The Taunton Branch of the Massachu-
setts S. P. C. A. presents a very creditable
report of its year’s activities. A total of
1,053 animals were handled, and free vet-
erinary service was furnished to many
needy families. The Society now has a
membership of 64 and holds monthly meet-
ings. Food sales, bridge and a tag day
netted $215. Receipts amounted to $1,280.64,
and expenditures to $1,259.66. Mrs. Howard
F. Woodward, whose valuable services for
15 years are duly recognized and appreci-
ated, was re-elected president.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

‘ Vx‘VV‘i‘ivr‘Ti-‘e’tséaéav

 

 




 
 

4.;
///z my
. /

/

 

./ ./
/

SOCIETY ~

and THE AMERICAN I-IUMANE EDUCATION

I

PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS

THE MASSACHUSETTS SOCIETY FOR THE

 

 

MAY 1937

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

Sept. 1937

They Also Served

HERBERT E. SMITH

 

“Man’s Noblest Friend”

Out from the past—the dim, bloody,
shifting past—came this noble equine,
this noble animal, the horse; side by
side with man, ﬁghting with him the
battles of progress, bearing with him
the burdens of the centuries. Down
the long, hard road, through ﬂint and
mire, through swamp. and sand, wher-
ever there has been a footprint, there
also will be seen a hoofpm'nt.

1 JOHN TRorwoon MOORE

 

 

 

 

 

MERICAN horses—and mules—were

in the service of the Allied troops long
before the American Expeditionary Forces
were dreamed of. But the major exodus of
horses and mules from American farms and
remount depots really began in 1917 when
we entered the war.

No one knows how many of these faithful
animals ever were shipped overseas. Cer-
tainly no man who served “over there” but
can fail to remember his surge of nostalgia
as he heard, “Somewhere in France,” the
whinny of a home-bred horse or the familiar
bray of a long-cared Yankee mule.

Many of these American horses and mules
were taken prisoners of war by German
troops in the early stages of the A. E. F.’s
active participation in the war. These ani-
mals were removed from the front and taken
back to interior Germany where they were
exhibited, in their American harness and
equipment, to the admiring civil population.

Today 32 of these horses captured by the
enemy from the A. E. F. early in 1918 are
still in Germany. They have learned a new
language and have new masters. Most of
the American horses are on farms in rural
Germany. But they are not worked to
excess. They are treated with kindness and
understanding by the German farmers—
wartime soldiers all—to whom they were
allotted by the German government after
the Armistice.

Each of these horses who served in action
during the World War, American horses as
well as the German animals, is registered at
Berlin and each wears upon the left crown
of his bridle an especially cast medal desig-
nating him a wartime hero. On the top of
this medal is a reproduction of the Iron
Cross, under which is the inscription in
raised letters KRIEGSKAMERAD (“War
Buddy”).

All of these veteran horses are assured
kind, comfortable treatment for the rest of
their existence.

Elk Dies of Grief

“Faithful unto death” was a mother elk
of upper Naches, Washington, says the
Northport News of that state. A month ago
her calf was killed by a logging truck and
since then she had not moved from the
spot where her baby was knocked down.
Beside the road she died from a broken
heart, authorities said, as she had ample
food supplied her during her long vigil.

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Horses Three

C. P. FLINN

ITH the accompanying photograph
goes a story of another horse—the

one whose whinny, coming from across the
meadow on a mild, sweet-scented spring day,
was responsible for the alert attentiveness
apparent in “Brown Bird’s” beautiful pose.

 

 

 

 

“BROWN BIRD”

This Kentucky bred riding mare, for years
has been a pay—guest at “Babe’s” farm
home, (as near an earthly paradise for
stock as could be imagined) and the latter
has proved a good friend and hostess, cap-
able of meeting every emergency, as the
following story will attest. '

Sometime before our Brown Bird was
even considered as a possible guest at the
farm, a blind work horse (Babe and most
of the others are thoroughbred riding
horses) was placed there to spend her re-
maining years in comfort and green pas-
tures. But the animal did not ﬁnd life
among the other horses easy. Good grass
was hard to ﬁnd with sightless eyes, and
often as the horses roved over the meadows
the blind one would get stranded in clumps
of brush, unable to ﬁnd its way out.

As time passed, Babe took an interest in
the welfare of the newcomer. When the
horses were turned out to pasture, Babe
would guide the blind one to the most suc—
culent patches of grass; and when the drove
wandered through weeds and brush Babe
could be seen at the blind one’s side, guiding
it with her own body, making queer throaty
noises.

Along one side of the pasture there was
an abandoned stone quarry with a stretch
of water 35 feet deep. The horses instinc-
tively sensed the danger here, and Babe
always kept the blind one away from the
spot until one day when several men were
ﬁshing on the quarry ledge beneath some
willows fringing this corner of the pasture.
The blind horse, always attracted by voices,
heard them talking and ran toward the
pond, plunging into the water. A whinny
of distress went up as the blind one splashed

Page 133.

about trying to ﬁnd a foothold, but the
steep, stone ledges baﬂ‘led it. Some of the
ﬁshermen ran for a ’rope to help in the
rescue, but the blind one was fast weaken-
ing. She whinnied again and sank once——
then Babe heard. She galloped across the
pasture. Men about the pool tried to keep
her back when they saw she intended to
dive in, but she broke through their guard
and splashed into the pool. She swam to
the blind horse, and, holding its head out of
the water with her own neck, guided it to a
sloping spot on the bank where rescued and
rescuer found a ﬁrm foothold and clambered
to safety.

Today the once abandoned stone quarry is
a veritable sapphire gem in an emerald set-
ting, a bathing pool at the rear of a beauti-
ful country home. Its spring—fed overﬂow
refreshes the creek winding through the
farm pasture land, where Babe, Brown Bird
and others of the drove quench summer
thirsts, munching lush grass growing along
its banks. Only one of the former drove
is absent. The blind one has long since
passed on to an eternity of green pastures,
where there are no pitfalls for those of
darkened sight.

Babe still uses the “throaty noises” when
she converses with us about apples and
cakes that are being passed around.
Whether leaving or returning from our ride,
Babe’s whinny will travel to Brown Bird’s
ears, acting like a magic string drawing
them up sharply at attention. Many times
the horses will come galloping across the
pasture to follow along their side of the
fence as far they can go, and as they lose
sight of us with the turn in the road, a
parting whinny breaks the steady rhythmic
tempo of hoofs on the hard gravel road;
for at this time Brown Bird takes a deep
breath for her answering whinny, which
seems to say, “And good—bye to you, for
a little while.”

Be Kind to the Horse

I once worked for a farmer whose horses
were so much afraid of him that we would
have trouble getting them to go in the barn
after being driven up from the pasture. He
abused them considerably and could never'
get up to them when they were out in the
lots grazing. They would not go in the barn
unless compelled to.

As luck would have it he was drawn on
the jury and was to be absent from home
for three weeks and over at the county
seat. During his absence his sixteen—year-
old son and I decided to change tactics in
regard to the handling of the horses. We
handled them gently, petted them, did not
use them rough in any way and soon they
were so tame they could be approached in
the pasture or any place. When the farmer
came home he found a diﬁerent acting
bunch of horses. He was considerably taken
aback and admitted we were right in hand-
ling the horses the way we did. After that
he governed his temper better and was able
to see the advantage of so doing.

WILLIS MEHANNA

Remember that however well you feed
your animals in hot weather, they always

need plenty of fresh water.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Co.

M1g.

1X

15 Phoen

hoto courtesy o

P

 

THE MASSACHUSETTS SOCIETY FOR THE

OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS

and THE AMERICAN l-IUMANE EDUCATION

PREVENTION

SOCIETY ~

 

 




 

 

 

THE PERFECT GIFT

for a boy or girl in whom you
wish to cultivate kindness to
animals, is

ELEANOR HOFFMANN’S
Melika and Her Donkey

It is a delightful story of a lively little
Arabian donkey and his true adventures.
You’ll enjoy reading it yourself.

See ‘it at your bookshop. $1.50

FREDERICK A. STOKES. Publishers

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

    
  
 
 
 
 
  
    
      

(TETRACHLORETHYLENE C. T.)

WORM CAPSULES .

effectively remove

, Dependable, safe, easy—to- .
"fgive worm treatment.
Keep your dog worm free
and thrifty.
FOR

8 o o‘i’t’illigf N0 552
on the practicglzgtgggan
°’ “’°'ms (images ’ ADDRESS DESK \ 1.... L
-- Animal Industry Dept,
PARKE DAVIS 81 CO., Detroit, Mich.

Drug Stores Sell Parke- Davis Products

  
 
 

  
 

breeds an

    

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THIS SPACE
CONTRIBUTED

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

DEAR DADDY—

Since you 've been away, mother started
using Cuticura Soap on baby brother.
He loves it- and OhI—tdoes he smell
good! Mother says it’ S the purest,
sweetest soap she’s ever used — an

We’ re all using it now. Love, Mary- Ann.
Soap 25¢. Ointment 25¢. FREE sample.
Write Cuticura” ,.Dept 41, Malden, Mass.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Since 1832

.I. S. WATERMAN & SONS, Inc.
mnbertakers

BOSTON—BROOKLINE—CAMBRIDGE
City and Out-of-Town Service

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Humane literature and Band of Mercy Supplies

For Sale at 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass, at these prices, postpaid.

Titles in bold-face type are of books or booklets

Our Dumb Animals, 1936, bound volume
Colored Posters, 17 x 28 inches, with
attractive pictures and verses, six in
the set . . ............ 1. 00
Be Kind to Animals Blotters, 6% x 3% $0.50 per 100

$1.00

About the Horse

Black Beauty (English), cloth,....$1.00 and 50 cts.
What Constitutes Cruelty, Francis H.

Rowley ........................ $0 30 per 100
Humane Horse book, 32 pp. 5 cts. each or 5. 00
The Horse—Treatment of Sores, etc. .60 “ “
Humane Education Leaflet, No. 5 .50 ‘ ‘
The Horse’s Prayer ...... . ..30 “ “
The Bell of Atri, poem by Longfellow .. .50 “ “
The Care of Mules ........... . . .50 “ “

About the Dog

Beautiful Joe, new, illus., $1. 50 ........ small, 50 cts.
Distemper in Dogs, Dr. Schneider . Free
Rabies vs. Running Fits, Dr. Schneider Free

Eulogy on the Dog, by Vest, post- card $1. 00per100
The Dog—Its Care in Health and Disease .60
Feeding the Dog and the Cat, Dr.

Schneider .2 00 “ “

Humane Education Leaflets, Nos. 3 and 4 .50 “ “
What the Chained Dog Says .50 “ “
The Story of Barry .30 “ “

“Don” and His Boy Scout Friends,
J. P. Lyons .50 " “
Road Accidents to Dogs, 4 pp. Free

Boots’ Day, play,” for two boys and three
girls . . 3 cts. each. ﬁve for 10 cts.

About the Bird

The Birds of God, 318 pp., illus .......... cloth, $0.45
Trial of the Birds, play, 3 cts. ea.; 12 for
25 cts.

$2.110 per 100
Humane Education Leaflets, Nos. 1 and 2

.50per100
How the Birds Help the Farmer .50 “ “
The Air-gun and the Birds ...... .50 “ “

About the Cat

The Cat—Its Care in Health and Disease $0. 60 per 100
Surplus Cats .. .5

..... 0
The Cat in Literature ..... . .50 “ “
Do Not Leave Your Cat to Starve .. .50 “ “
Mollie Whitefoot’s Vacation . .. .50 “ “
1' a1 (1:113 H s -card, 6 cts. doz. . “ “
I Knew She was a Lady ............... .50 “ “

About Other Animals

Prince Rudolf’s Quest, Kenniston, 150
pp. ., special boards, 50 cts.
The Strike at Shane’ s, cloth, 30 cts paper, 7 cts.
For Pity’s Sake paper 5 cts.
Michael Brother of Jerry, Jack London, cloth. 75 cts.
Laugh, Clown, Laugthelen Trevelyan cloth, $1.00
’lhe great Cruelty Again, Dr. Rowley Free
First Aid to Animals, Dr. Schneider, 8 pp.
$1.00 per 100

Gripped in the Teeth of Steel 2 pp. 00 “ “
How to Kill Animals Humanely, 4 pp. 1.00 “ “
Humane Education Leaflet, No. 6, Animals .50 “ “
Ways of Kindness

....... .50per100
Humane Education Leaflet, No. 7, Farm

Animals ................ .... .50 “ “
A Wise Fish ......................... .50 “ “

The Jack London Club

What is the Jack London Club? ........ .30 per 100
Foreword from “Michael Brother of Jerry” .30 “
Films, Fakes and Facts, Helen Trevelyan,

4p ......... “ "
Do Wild Animals Prefer Captivity? Helen
Trevelyan, 4 pp ....... .50 “ “

Trained Animals—Cruelty Disguised,
Helen Trevelyan, 4 pp.
Humane Education
The Relation of the Home to Character
Formation, Dr. Francis H. Rowley...
The Humane Bulletin, for use in schools,
96 pp .............. 12 cents each; ten for $1. 00
Care and Kindness for Our Animal
Friends, 29 pp., paper covers, many
illus. . .. . .15 cents each; seven for $1. 00
Kindness Picture Book, 32 pp., 15 cts. , seven for $1. 00
The Teacher’s Helper in Humane Edu-
cation, 32 pp. ....................... each, 10 cts.
An Early Start to Kindness, Lucia F.
Gilbert, 48 pp. For ﬁrst and second
grades ..........................
Incidents About Animals as Told to _
School Children by George T. Angell
2 cts. each; $1.00 per 100 "
Picture Lesson Cards, each 10 cts., set
of eight ...........................
“Be Kind to Animals” pennants ......

Free

each, 10 cts.

35 cts.
each, 25 cts.

The Humane Idea, Dr. Francis H.
Rowley . ........... cloth, 35 cts.; paper, 15 cts.
Friends and Helpers (selections for

school use) Sarah J. Eddy .......... cloth $1.00
Lessons on Kindness to Animals $3.00 per 100
The B—K—T—A—Club, play, 3 cts. each; ten for 25¢.
Fred Changes His Mind, play, 5 cts. each; six for 25c.
“And a Little Child Shall Lead Them,”
payl .......... 3 cts. each; ten for 25 cts.
Friends of Fur and Feather, play”
‘-- - 3 cts. each; ten for 25 ctS
Humane Exerc1ses ...... . . .

....... $1i 50 per 100
Humane Sunlday, 1937 ; ,. 01.0
Humane Educatlon the Vital Need, Dr.
Rowley, Shortwadio address, 2 cts. each; .75 “ “
Humane Education, What to Teach and

How to Teach It .50 “ “
Outlines of Study in Humane Education 1. 50 “ “
Early Lessons in‘Kindness or Cruelty .. .50 “ “
A Talk with the Teacher .50 “ “
Our Love for Animals, a Short radio ad-

dress . ......... 2 cts. each, 1. 00 “ “
The Coming Education ................ .30 “ “
A Festival of Tender Mercies .......... .50 “ “
Need of Humane Education Societies and

Methods of Forming Them .......... .50 “ “
Bookmark, with “A Humane Prayer” 1.00 “ “

A Great Prophecy, Dr. Rowley ........ Free

Band of Mercy
“Be Kind to Animals” Buttons, three
styles—Band of Mercy, Humane So-
ciety, or S. P. C. A. . . $1. 00 per 100
Buttons—white star on blue ground with
gilt letters and border, one cent each 1.00 “ “

Badges, gold finish, large, 10 cts. small 5 cts.
“Band of Mercy” Pennant ........... 35 cts.
Songs of Happy Life, with music, S.

J. Eddy ..................... 50 cts.
Songs ofy Happy Life (56 pages, words

only) .......................... $3. 00 per 100
Band of Mercy Membership Card ...... .50 “
How to Form Bands of Mercy .......... .50 “ “

Does it Pay, Story of one Band of Mercy .30 “ “
No order by mail for less than 5 cts.

Please enclose rmmffunce with orders for less than $1

A MERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY, 180 Longwood Ave., Boston, Mass.

 

 

“IN BEHALF OF ANIMALS”

Film showing activities of Angel! Animal Hospital 11" tla ‘
Rest Farm f( r Horses.
Two reels, 30 minutes.

“THE BELL OF ATRI”

One-reel Film, illustrating Longfellow’s poem of the same title
State whether regular 35 11111... 1 1

scenes at Society‘s

Terms on application to Secretary, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston

\ ell'men,

Iii 1‘

Ssachusetts S. P. C. A., Boston,
and

11.. is required

its Animal Shelters.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

May, 1937

Prodigal

GEORGE FOXHALL in Worcester Sunday
Telegram

Why do you run away?

You don’t behave like that at home

When garden gates are shut; or in the
house!

You come at once when called, or, let us
Say,

Almost at once. I must admit you seem

Sometimes to close those dainty ears of
yours

Until some foolish sniﬂing has been done,

But then with sudden turn you leap and
run

Towards me just as if you’d made me think

Your haste as eager as my ﬁrst command.

And your belated virtue wins applause

By well-timed disobedience broken 0]?

With seeming gladness. I should be more

stern,

And try to scold you to some sense of
shame,

But your brown eyes hold such hypnotic
love,

And I’m ashamed of making you ashamed

When, obviously, you think you’ve done so
well.

Well, let us say you do quite well. Excuse

Is that much less, when, through an open
gate

You win a freedom dangerous to your life,

And will not come no matter how I call.

And when I follow you, you lope and sneak,

Yes, sneak, around the houses and the
lawns,

And when you see me, off you go again,

The glare of wilful freedom in your eyes,

To vent a vagrant mood in swamp and
woods

Hunting, no doubt, for queer, malodorous
things

Far, far beneath you in the social scale.

You! Daughter of a line of royal blood!

I wish you knew how you embarrass me.

You know I worry when you run away;

Lest you be caught in trap, or mangled by

Some roaring juggernaut you fail to see.

Sometimes I think that when you do return

I’ll whip the vagrant out of you, and win

Obedience through fear. But when you
come,

Hours later, to my listening, perhaps in
dark

Of night or storm, you’re just my little
dog;

Drooping with weariness and some re-
morse,

And loaded with the absolute of dirt

Which boasts its presence with amazing
smells

That many waters presently must cleanse.

And when I stoop to lift you gingerly,

A little leap launches you in my arms,

And dirt and smells hug close up to my
breast

And all your deep, wild places are forgot

Near the close comfort of my thankful
heart

“It’s all right to talk about hitching your
wagon to a star.”
“Well?”
“But the question now is—where can a
fellow park an automobile?”
—R. S. P. C. A. Journal

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

“Greyfriars’ Bobby”

HIS letter came from former Governor

Baxter of Maine to President Rowley,
last March:

Dear Doctor Rowley:—

I know that you are familiar with the
story of the little Scotch dog, “Greyfriars’
Bobby,” who for fourteen long years stood
watch over his master’s grave in an Edin-
burgh cemetery. Perhaps, however, Our
Dumb Animals has not published a picture
of the monument erected to the memory of
this devoted dog, and it gives me pleasure
to enclose one to you which I purchased here
in Edinburgh today.

Your readers, I am Sure, will be interested
to see this picture, and to read the inscrip-
tion on the base of the monument. As a
matter of fact I came to Edinburgh from
London more so that I could see for myself
this tribute to a dog, than for any other
reason.

You recall that when Queen Victoria
heard the story of Greyfriars’ Bobby she
herself contributed toward the erection of
the memorial. The story is in book form,
and no lover of animals can read it without
being deeply moved.

I hope you are well and send my kind
regards. Faithfully,

PERCIVAL P. BAXTER

The dragon ﬂy is harmless. It is, in fact,
beneﬁcial in that it eats a great many
mosquitoes.

. 2%. Tributes m the

2 -» m: ﬁzieiiey 81%”
, {-iiﬁ'il’yivﬁf‘hﬂ’g giftﬂﬁy

Page 69

Working Dogs in Ireland

KADRA MAYSI

HE first thing I noticed about the-

dogs of Ireland was an unusual grav—
ity—a sort of grown—up-ness—which I do
not, as a rule, notice about the average
dog in America. They seemed kindly—
friendly—merry—but they had an air of
responsibility and purpose. People who do
not know or love animals may laugh at my
statement: but, since I am writing for
people who both love and understand them,
I think I can risk it. I noticed a distinct
psychological difference between the average
dog of the Irish country home and the dog
of the same class in America.

What caused this difference? My curi-
osity was aroused. Was it an Old World
sedateness and weariness—a sophistication
acquired from masters belonging to an
ancient land—as compared to the more
youthful and careless mentality of a New
World?

I could not ﬁgure it out as such. The
Irish are a happy— g—o— l—ucky race. Although
there is much poverty in the Free State
and men and women labor for a living, they
retain both joy and wit. It stood to reason
that the workingman’s dog—to whom his
master is a deity—should retain gaiety too.
He did retain. it. He barked and bounced
and licked the hand of myself, the Visitor.
But—he was a dog with a mission in life.
He was not merely a pet.

I had it! Of course he was not merely
a pet. Of course he had a mission in life.
These dogs I was seeing in
the homes of workingmen
were working dogs. The sheep
dogs had their trade and had
their pride in doing it well.
At some farms where there
were no sheep, the collies,
airedales, or terriers drove
cattle, goats, farm horses and

in 9M8 {his iz‘séihiui dais: don’kesrs t0 and from pasture.
} i the arm :i‘ma of

:ng
near 137:2: 539:1? until his
:ix; mix in 2351‘s.?

 

MEMORIAL FOUNTAIN TO “GREYFRIARS’
BOBBY” NEAR GREYFRIARS’ CHURCHYARD,

EDINBURGH, SCOTLAND

 

Sitting on a hill upon the
Dingle peninsula, I saw an
old peasant come out of his
hut and whistle to a rough-
haired terrier. The dog ran
up the hill, leaped! several
stone walls, separated an old
work-horse from two cows
and gravely brought them
down, in turn, to the farm-
yard.

Of eourse I had realized
that the trained sheep dog of
the sheep owner managed the
ﬂock; but I had not realized
that the household dog, of
any breed, belonging to a
poor family, had its share in
the family work. I saw this
repeatedly demonstrated —-
saw dogs drive poultry as
well as cattle and pigs—saw
them guard children and
carry packages.

A few miles out of Dingle
—one of the wildest and most
poverty-stricken, a l t h o u g h
most beautiful and interest—
ing parts of Ireland—I n0-
ticed a guard leaning from
the train with a rolled news-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

July, 1937 OUR DUMB

 

14Allﬂ1ALLS

 

l'llluml‘ll‘)
I' rill
.l

l ~

 

H
U
l

 

    
   

: xx 5 s. ‘ . u I
. ) r -
/

l
l

 
 
  

   
 
  

ll ’
\‘ ~\‘ . " n I: ‘— ~
’I "1‘ , l'l‘ I/.- \u
' '1" It» in“ r’uq ‘ ‘ » § \‘ .”\‘\I . \,‘\ ‘ ' " '\ _.
‘ .‘ ”l- l.:|“~ "High \ ‘, “ / @ ll‘ ll .'.." I. . 'I'
'0‘" \'(I\|'l' "“l , ‘1 ' I .r \ " ' (if "
l ‘ I ‘ . ' . I. ‘l ' \l .
.@.|‘\‘1’§\llt l.\ I \ .,$( |\!..\ l \\ ‘.
'l'lﬂ‘l' l\'/' I 'h ‘1'” "|")F{b‘\lu\‘ " y'i'h'lillll ’Ill'l‘\lL\\l‘L'I" ‘\
.
A thtle B€ar’s LaIIICIlt

\ll\,,\\l?".‘\\'_l ‘llf'll:|ll‘
FRED CORNELIUS

 

\
I’I

WAS captured when I was
11 only a cub and brought
here to this gas station. They
tied a chain around my neck
and fastened a heavy block to
the other end of the chain.
All day long I have to stay
near the station so people may
see me. Some of these people
feel very sorry for me, and
drive on without buying any
gas or oil. But others think I
am funny-looking, and give
me things to eat that do not
agree with me. One man even
gave me a cigaret. It made me
sick, but they thought this
was funny, and you should
have heard them laugh.

I do not like the strange
odors that come from the gas pumps, and the automobiles
frightened me terribly. So, for a long time I tried to break
the chain and run back to my mother in the green forest.
But, soon, I learned that this could not be done; and, now, I
do not try it any more.

I am always glad when the sun goes down and the man who
tends the station takes me inside, for there it is quiet, and I
can go to sleep. But sometimes I do not like to sleep because
I often dream about my home in the forest. In these dreams
'I can see my mother and little brother. And I can always
see a swift-running brook and my mother catching ﬁsh from
it. I always feel badly when I wake up after these dreams.
And then I want to see my home more than ever.

Perhaps, some of these days, a kind man will come along
and unfasten the chain from around my neck. If this ever
happens, I shall run into the forest as fast as I can. I shall
go deep into its cool greenness, and I will never go near a
man-thing again, if I can help it.

I hope this will happen soon, for I am getting thinner every
day. Pretty soon I may be too weak to run, and then it will
be too late. Perhaps I may never see my forest again.

What Can I Do?

SOLVEIG PAULSON

What can I do to help today

To cheer some creature’s lonely way?
Many birds search far for feed,

You can scatter crumbs and seed.

You can stroke a dog’s soft head,

You can see that pets are fed.

You can read and study, too,

About what beasts and insects do;
Then you’ll ﬁnd that what you know
Makes your heart and interests grow.

 

Remember that however well you feed your animals in hot
weather, they always need plenty of fresh water.

(3
E
r—
55
m
:3
(/3
”U
>
O
m

 

 

A PLEASING POSE

 

Hidden Animals

ALFRED I. TOOKE

A well—known animal is hiding in each of the following sen-
tences. See if you can ﬁnd them all.
I saw Eric at the farm.
He is a musical fellow.
He prefers prestige rather than money.
He can do good work on a farm.
We all ambled up the hill.
He said “Over the top I go!”
And over at a great pace he went.
We called on his Grandma Rebecca.
She said “I must give you hash or send you home hungry!”

SDPOQSDH‘P‘WNF

10. I said “I think it would be a really enjoyable meal.”
11. It was time to go at last.
12.

She said it would be a very good idea to go back next
Saturday.

Answer to “How Many Birds?” puzzle last month. (The

numbers indicate on which squares the names can start and
end):

Kingﬁsher, 1—34 Loon, 23-36 Swift, 17-3
Kittiwake, 1-5 Sparrow, 19-30 Lapwing, 20-15
Nighthawk, 9-1 Owl, 24-23 Tit, 3-8
Swallow, 17-30 Parrot, 26-28 Heron, 21—36

Raven, 34-31 Fishhawk, 4-1

 

 

 

 

 




 

Page 18!;

Our Dumb Animals

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston Ofﬁce: 180 Longwood Av—
enue, Boston, Mass., to which all communications
should be addressed.

Dr. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON, Editor

WILLIAM M. MORRILL, Assistant

 

DECEM BER, 1937

 

FOR TERMS, see back cover.

AGENTS, to take orders for Our Dumb Animals are
wanted everywhere. Liberal commissions are offered.

EDITORS of all periodicals who receive this pub-
lication this month are invited to reprint any of the
articles with or without credit.

MANUSCRIPTS relating to animals, particularly
prose articles of about three hundred words, are solic-
ited. We do not wish to consider prose manuscripts
longer than 800 words nor verse in excess of thirty-
six lines. The shorter the better. All manuscripts
should be typewritten and an addressed envelope with
full return postage enclosed with each offering.

 

 

Who Pays for this Loss?

HE National Livestock Loss Preven-
tion Board issues a pamphlet telling
us that during the year 1935 (these ﬁg-
ures would be approximately true for 1936)
more than two million cattle, nearly six
million hogs, some one million sheep and
360,000» calves marketed in the United
States were so seriously bruised in ship-
ment or before as to cause losses in the
sale of the meat obtained from them to a
value of eleven million dollars. During
shipment more than 70,000 hogs, nearly
30,000 cattle and calves, and more than
30,000 sheep died or were crippled during
that year in the journey to market, and
more than 50,000 died in transit that year.
This pamphlet, of course published in the
interests of the meat—packing industry,
shows how this loss falls upon the pro-
ducer who, many times, has to insure his
shipments against loss, falls upon the rail-
road which has to pay for many injuries
that occur in transit, falls upon the pack-
ers as buyers who have to anticipate these
losses in the purchase of livestock, and
then ultimately must come back upon all
consumers of meat. The packers are con-
cerned with ﬁnancial losses, but millions of
our citizens are more and more concerned
with what these unfortunate food animals
suffer on their journey from the farm to
the slaughter—house. Never, of course, can
animals be transported from the places
where they are raised to the places where
they are slaughtered without more or less
of suffering, but the work of humane so-
cieties, and of humane education in the
schools of this country, should continually
be creating that humaner spirit which, from
the farm to the shambles, should steadily
lessen the suffering of these creatures sacri-
ﬁced for human food.

Police Captain Thomas F. Harvey, Sta-
tion 16, Boston citizens will be glad to
know, has issued an order warning hit-and-
run automobilists who have injured or
killed a dog by careless driving that they
will be prosecuted if discovered. The warn-
ing reads as follows: “A person who causes
serious injury to a dog and then goes away
without doing his utmost to assist the ani_—

mal is a potential criminal and should be
prosecuted.”

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Man’s Friend: the Crow

NDER this heading a leaﬂet has ap-

peared, published by the Emergency
Conservation Committee of New York.
While it is true that the crow is responsible
for the destruction of a small amount of
corn that the farmer plants, and even that
might be eliminated by proper preparation
of the seed before it is planted, and while
it is also true that during the season of
their young they do rob probably many a
bird’s nest, it has long been held by those
who have studied their life and habits that
they do more good than harm. In 1918, we
are informed (Bulletin 621, U. S. Dept. of
Agriculture) that, “The attitude of the
individual farmer toward the crow should
be one of toleration when no serious losses
are suffered, rather than uncompromising
antagonism, resulting in the unwarranted
destruction of these birds which at times
are most valuable aids to man.”

The committee’s pamphlet says what we
believe is perfectly true, that the depletion
of game birds now apparent has been
caused vastly more by the wholesale kill-
ing by hunters than by the destruction of
game birds’ eggs by crows.

Manufacturers of guns and ammunition,
to further their own interests, have ma-

ligned the crow, calling him black rascal,

pirate, gangster and murderer, considering
nothing but their own proﬁts. We are told
that a photograph widely reproduced to
show the enormity of egg destruction by
crows not only was “faked” by the piling
up under a tree, containing a single crow’s
nest, of eggs from a large area, but the
eggs were mostly those of the clapper rail
or marsh hen that had been washed out of
the nests by an unusually high tide, and of
which there were literally windrows about
the edges of the marsh and of openings
therein, available to any creature inclined
to eat them. These eggs were wholly waste,
and consumption of them by crows or any
other scavengers was, if anything, beneﬁ—
cial. When the ammunition makers assert
that the shortage of ducks for hunters to
kill is due more to crows than to droughts
and drainage put together and that the
crow is the duck’s worst enemy and that
the crow destroys more ducks than the com-
bined hunters of Canada and the United
States, one can only smile at such abso-
lutely absurd statements.

The Racing Craze

Horse racing, dog racing, motor racing,
turtle racing, and now, “duck racing.” This
last, Oar Animals, organ of the San Fran-
cisco S. P. C. A., tells us is seeking recog-
nition. A certain promoter of racing, hav—
ing heard, we are told, that duck racing is
being staged with great success in foreign
countries, undertook to introduce it in San
Francisco. Realizing the danger to the
birds used in such events, two ofﬁcers of
the San Francisco S. P. C. A. went to the
place where the races were advertised to
take place and warned the promoter that
if any injury happened to the ducks an
arrest would be made. The result was the
race was called off. The San Francisco S.
P. C. A. requests the co-operation of all
humane societies to stop similar events
wherever staged.

Dec.1937

Still the Rodeo

N spite of all the opposition of. the hu-

mane societies to what is known as the
Wild West show or the rodeo, these exhibi-
tions still continue not only through the West
but annually visit the East. Regret as one
may the fatal accidents that occur to the
human participants in these performances,
little can be said because of their own free
will they take their chances in riding dan-
gerous horses and steers. With an editorial
from the Worcester Telegram of October
18, which concludes as follows, we heartily
agree:

In a country which rules out the gory
sport of bull-ﬁghting as inhumane and
cruel to the animals, the acceptance of the
rodeo is considered by many persons as
somewhat inconsistent. Yet the rodeos
ﬂourish year by year. The lure of cham-
pionship prizes and large cash awards
bring in the requisite number of recruits
for the performances, and the prospect of
life-and—death risks taken never fails to
attract paying crowds. Despite the number
of fatalities, it may be assumed that the
shows will go on until such time as the pub-
lic sickens of the brutality and withholds
patronage.

A University’s Tribute
To a Dog

On the campus of Stetson University, on
a recent afternoon, a beautiful tribute was
paid by the students to a friend who had
died and who had won the affection and
kindly regard of all who knew him. The
body, lying in a specially provided receptacle
in front of the bandstand, on the campus,
the drum major of the school band, who had
been closely associated with this friend for
the past three years, told the story of his
life since the day, when, as a stranger, he
strayed upon the campus. The report
says that many a handkerchief was seen to
move slowly toward the eyes of the large
body of students who were present at the
last rites.

The name of this friend was “Largo,”
and Largo was a dog that came upon the
campus some three years ago, and though
adopted by the junior class, had won the
friendship of all who came to know him.
“Largo,” said the drum major, “deep down
in his heart must have had the soul of
a master musician. Wherever the band
went, Largo could be found; whenever the
band practised, he was always present.
Largo was always prompt, always loyal,
and always had a friendly greeting for all
those who stopped to speak to him as they
passed to and fro across the campus.”

Whatever the outcome of the disastrous
war in China, the mass of American citi-
zens, we thoroughly believe, are opposed to
our country being drawn into it. The 7,780
American citizens in China, however much
they may have our sympathy, were there
at their own risk. The total value of Ameri-
can investments in China and Japan is
$468,000,000. In the interests of those who
invested that money in those foreign lands,
few will believe we should take any steps
that might draw us into the maelstrom of
another horrible war.

 

 




 

 

June, 1937

Reflection

MARGUERITE NOLAN

I’d rather lend aid to a suffering pet,
Than gain the applause of the throng;
No cynic can shatter my poise though he
claims
There’s a serious ﬂaw in the song.

It’s a pleasure my own to converse with the
birds,
And to harbor a cat should she cry;
I’ve a feeling that’s rare when I fondle a dog,
And see gratefulness gleam in his eye.

And what’s more complete than a stroll to
the park,
With nuts tucked away out of sight,
With squirrels a-scamper and birds wheel—
ing close
As the plain paper bag comes to light?

Oh, I’m glad the Lord blessed me with sight
to pursue
A game never stained with regrets;
For the warmth and the glows given only
to those
Who are fashioned as lovers of pets.

The Mule is Honored

JOHN P. DINNENY

HE lowly mule had its day recently in

Columbia, Tennessee, where is located
one of the.largest of the world’s mule mar-
kets. Twenty thousand people, led by the
Governor of the State, took a day off to
honor his supposedly stubborn Highness.

A monster parade over two miles long
was the main feature. Nearly a thousand
mules brayed, balked, and cavorted to the
martial music of the local bands. No at—
tempts were made to exclude low quality
animals. The most decrepit rubbed a bony
haunch against his proud and sleeker broth—
er. It was a day for all mules, a day on
which nose—tilting ideas of breed, class,
pedigree were cast into the discard.

The Governor himself rode in one of the
many beautifully decorated ﬂoats, drawn by
a six-mule team. Later, he laughingly re-
called less pleasant experiences with mules
back in his youthful days on a farm. Honor-
ing them was not particularly foremost in
his mind then, much less so on a hot sultry
day in the ﬁelds. But with age comes under-
standing.

While the mule was the guest of honor,
other animals basked in reﬂected glory.
J ennets, ponies, saddle, harness, and draft
horses, oxen, cows, bulls and goats marched
proudly in the procession, all brushed and
sleeked for the occasion. If their marching
lacked military precision, who are we to
criticize in view of the spirit that prompted
the affair?

Most of us will perhaps see only the
humorous aspects of the celebration. But to
those who love and respect animal life it
has greater cogency. Man is not as callous
as he ofttimes appears; buried deep within
his soul or mind or heart lies an apprecia-
tion of what domesticated animals have
done to improve the human race, and will
continue to do until the end of time. The
affair in Columbia was an outward expres-
sion of that appreciation.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

The Horned Lark

ALVIN M.

PETERSON

BIRD that I see and hear many times

in the course of a year is the horned
lark. In summer I often see them in the
garden, one, two or several of them, hop—
ping over the ground and feeding on seeds
and insects. Weed seeds are their chief
source of food, though they also eat some
insects, studies of their feeding habits and
food indicating that about two—thirds of it
consists of weed seeds and one-third of in—
sects. Since I see the birds about the
garden all summer long, I have concluded
they nest in the neighborhood, but though
I have often looked I have failed to ﬁnd
a nest.

These birds not only are very much in evi-
dence in summer but during the winter as
well. I do not see them in December and
January, but in February I both see and
hear them. As soon as bare patches of
ground appear in the ﬁelds I hear their
songs coming from them, and, likely as
not, catch sight of the birds ﬂitting from
one to another. The birds are quite musi-
cal, since they are migrating, and sing free-
ly. However, there is generally a long
pause between one song and the next. “Chip-
chip-a-chee—chee,” or “chip-chip-chip—a—chee-
chee-chee,” the birds seem to say, the songs
varying in length much as shown, some
being simple, others more elaborate. If
watched, the birds will be seen to make their
way from one bare spot to another, either
ﬂying or walking over the snow, and are
sure to visit bare spots near weeds, the
birds feeding steadily upon seeds they pick
from the ground.

Though the horned lark is common in
February, March and some other months, it
is not noticed by most people, since it is
shy, ﬂying off when you get anywhere near
it, skulking, hiding behind weeds and clods,
and never coming near the house. Its song,
too, is not loud enough to attract much at-
tention, unless your ears are trained to
the hearing of inconspicuous bird notes.

Page 91

On the other hand, it is sweet and pleasant
and has a resemblance to that of the mead-
owlark. Indeed, I have known people to
mistake the song of this bird for the loud
whistled “spring—’o-the-year” of the chubby
meadowlark. The horned lark sings most
freely early in the day, especially on clear
frosty mornings, though its song is also to
be heard OE and on all day.

It will pay you to make the acquaintance
of this bird, to learn to recognize its notes,
and to watch and listen for its ﬂight song.
.Not long ago I heard the ﬂight song of one
of these birds and also got a few glimpses
of the songster while thus engaged. There
was a pair of them feeding daily near some
large weeds in the garden, and one day I
saw the male ﬂy upward with a strain or
two of his music. Up he went, ﬁrst ﬂapping
his wings, then holding them motionless and
near the body, rising a step at a time and
going straight upward. On he went until
he was three or four hundred feet in the
air, where he occasionally sang a strain of
his “chip—a—chee-chee,” then dropped like a
meteor back to the ground. All the time
he was aloft he was almost directly above
his mate, who remained on the ground.
When he returned to the ground, the two
took a turn, ﬂying madly about the neigh-
borhood, shooting up over the hills, dipping
down into the valleys, and ﬂying around and
around, ﬁnally alighting on a bare spot and
resuming their feeding.

The horned lark is about eight inches in
length and has a sparrow-like look about
the body. It has a black patch on the
breast and below each eye, a yell-ow throat,
and a black border about the crown; this
black line ends at either end in a tuft of
feathers, the bird’s so—called horns. Of
these, the black and yellow about the breast,
throat and head and the horns or tufts of
feathers are the best ﬁeld marks for recog-
nizing this useful and interesting bird.

The Island of Birds

JOHN P. DINNENY

On a plain high up in mountainous
Tibet is a beautiful large lake in the
middle of which rests an isle, called the
Island of Birds. The Tibetans, usually con—
sidered a barbarous race, are very fond of
bird life. Centuries ago they set aside this
isle as a mating and nesting refuge for the
countless geese and ducks that migrate to
India in the winter. Each year it is the
custom for the reigning Dalai Lama at
Lhasa to send a minor lama to the island
as their keeper and guardian. His main
duty is to keep the birds well fed while
they remain there. Only a man noted for
his love of birds is chosen for the task. He
comes to know the birds as individuals, and
even has names for many of them. They
have the fullest conﬁdence in him. He calls;
they obey. He talks; they answer. Bird
and man are of a family.

New Officers Elected

At a recent election of ofﬁcers the
Fitchburg (Mass) Branch of the American
Humane Education Society chose Mr. Fran-
cis Kielty as president and Mr. Bradley W.
Leonard as treasurer. This year’s tag day
netted nearly $100.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

__ F, , 4~—< ,- .- mi- "v: V:A_-;»;=v_=.._ac..r — ~ 4 ,

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 138

Our Dumb Animals

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston Ofﬁce: 180 Longwood Av-
enue, Boston, ass., to which all communications
should be addressed.

Dr. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON, Editor

WILLIAM M. MORRILL, Assistant

 

SEPTEMBER, 1937

 

FOR TERMS, see back cover.

AGENTS, to take orders for Our Dumb Animals are
wanted everywhere. Liberal commissions are offered.

EDITORS of all periodicals who receive this pub-
lication this month are invited to reprint any of the
articles with or without credit.

MANUSCRIPTS relating to animals, particularly
prose articles of about three hundred words, are solic-
ited. We do not wish to consider prose manuscripts
longer than 800 words nor verse in excess of thirty-
six lines. The shorter the better. All manuscripts
should be typewritten and an addressed envelope with
full return postage enclosed with each offering.

 

 

“ Palotterie”on the Front Page

The Radio at Milking Time

ALOTTERIE” stands in the foreground

and beyond her part of her family. This
beautiful Guernsey at the Guernsey Farm
of Mr. S. M. Merrill at Ipswich, Mass., one
of our good friends, has given, during her
lifetime, more than 60,000 quarts of milk
beside presenting her owner many choice
daughters and sons. One of the caretakers
at the farm suggested to Mr. Merrill that
at milking time the cows might possibly do
a little better if the charm of music were
added to their surroundings. So a radio was
installed, and now, while the sound of the
milking softly ﬂows from the pails, the cows
are entertained, during the summer at

least, by the account of the various ball
games.

Bull-Fighting in Costa Rica

The pictures of brutal bull-ﬁghting in
Costa Rica led us to write the head of our
American Legation there asking if it might
not be possible for him to intimate to the
Government the hostility felt in the United
States against such barbarous so-called
sports. The reply came back that he could
not without authority from the State De-
partment in Washington. Then we wrote
Secretary Hull and the reply follows:

“N o matter What individual opinion may
be with regard to bull-ﬁghting, it is not
properly a matter about which this Gov-
ernment could take any action whatsoever.”
. The little Costa Rica Republic, number-
lng around 600,000, must be rather touchy
if the representatives of the United States
dare not even casually mention to one of
its ofﬁcials that the day of the bull-ﬁght is
ended in the civilized countries of the world.

No character stained with the taint of
cruelty can be other than a menace to man
and beast. Teach a child to love the woods
and the ﬁelds, the ﬂowers and the birds;
to think of his horse or dog or family pets
as his friends, and you have not only awak-
ened in his soul one of the choicest of life’s
Virtues, but you have added to his capacity
for happiness a hundredfold.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Massachusetts Repre-
sentatives in Congress

Their Opinion Upon a Vital National Issue

UR readers will remember our advo—

cacy of what is known in Congress as
Discharge Petition No. 11, introduced by
Congressman Louis Ludlow of Indiana,
which, if favorably acted upon by Congress
would mean that the United States would
never be involved in another war, except
in case of invasion by some foreign power,
until the people of the country had voted
upon the question. As it is now, Congress,
and not the people, has the power to plunge
the whole nation into war by a vote of only
267 of its 531 members.

Mr. Ludlow’s idea has seemed to us and
to multitudes of other of our citizens who
have expressed themselves individually and
in large gatherings to be a wholly wise and
sane plan. The Wisconsin State Legisla-
ture has even gone so far as to memorial—
ize Congress asking for the passage of the
proposal. To bring this Discharge Petition
before Congress it must receive the signa-
tures of 218 members of the House. At last
reports less than 170 had signed.

June 18 we wrote to the 14 representa—
tives from Massachusetts asking if they in-
tended to sign the Petition. We said,
“Please do not answer saying ‘Your letter
has been received and will be given due
consideration’ ” which is the usual reply one
gets from his representative. “This now,”
we said, “has been long enough before Con-
gress for you to know whether you are in
favor of it or not.” Of the 14, 10 replied,
only one frankly stating that he endorsed
the Petition and had signed it. That man
was Mr. Joseph E. Casey of Clinton. The
rest made no satisfactory reply. They were
undecided or didn’t believe that was the
way to keep the country out of war, or they
thought the 267 members of Congress a
far better judge as to whether the country
should go to war than the people who had
elected them. The following are the names
of those who evidently do not intendlto

vote for the Petition and we hope the.

readers of our paper in Massachusetts will
note the names and addresses when it comes
to the next election, that is, those readers of

our magazine who are in favor of deciding f

for themselves whether their husbands, sons
and brothers shall be sent to another war to
be blown to pieces by shells or mangled by
machine guns or added to the list of unfor-
tunates, blinded, wounded, crippled for life.

George Holden Tinkham, Boston

“I do not believe that the Constitution
of the United States should be amended
along the lines which you apparently
favor.”

John W. McCormack, Dorchester

“I have not yet made up my mind as to
whether the Petition would accomplish the
objective desired.”

George J. Bates, Salem

“1 am opposed to any amendment to the
Constitution providing for a popular vote
on the declaration of war.”

Richard B. Wigglesworth, Milton
“As a matter of policy I have always

hesitated to sign petitions of this char-
acter.”

Sept. 1937

 

wpzaw @6801”? ’0”

PROPOSIMC A CONSTITUTIONAL { "

 
 
 
  

RE A
AMENDMENT TO REOU|
NRECT VOTE OF TKE PEOPLE

same A DEG.

g5 \_\
”1 -

names or m k," ~
' . Ill \ \
.. x t.‘ -191: ﬂag
COMM|I I EE SHELF
law ,, 35:33

.' 3‘. -

. .5“! p _ > .. 1 g....:.‘.. N.“ ‘; ~
93‘7- ‘wﬁaa we» . . “3 '.

, K ' ’~ 3 '
b.‘ '

 

 

 

 

 

"of, ' e', ,3. t.‘ . I'v‘ I H." ‘1 ,.. _
3‘ . 15:2. . ,v n . »_ ' ~ cam-“g" ‘a

By Herblock, NEA Service, Inc., and used in
Peace Action

“WHY ISN’T THIS BROUGHT OUT
FOR DISCUSSION?”

Robert Luce, Waltham
“I do not intend to sign the Petition con—
cerning which you write.”

Charles R. Clason, Springﬁeld
“I believe the bill should take its regular
course through legislative channels.”

Charles L. Gifford, Cotuit

His secretary writes, “Mr. Gifford does
not favor legislation by petition. He said
he would probably sign it if it came before
the House for legislative action."

Mrs. Edith Nourse Rogers, Lowell

Believes the Resolution should have ex-
tensive study and consideration but gives
no indication as to whether .she intends to
sign it or not.

Allan Treadway, Stockbridge
Does not intend to sign the Petition.

Unheard from are Pehr G. Holmes, Wor—
cester; Arthur D. Healey, Somerville; John
P. Higgins, Boston; and Joseph Martin, N.
Attleboro.

We are pleased to say that the late
William P. Connery, of Lynn, had signed
the petition shortly before his death.

It: should be said in justice to these who
have."{declined to say “Yes” or “No” that
practically all gave reasons why they did

not ”favor the plan or why they object

to." any legislation that does not take the
regular course. The entire correspondence,
however, gives one the impression that the
vast majority of our Congressmen are quite
convinced that any 267 of them are a good
deal more competent to be trusted in a
matter so far-reaching than 125 million
people whose representatives they are sup—
posed to be.

The horse watering stations in Boston
maintained by the Mass. S. P. C. A. had
supplied drinks to nearly 4,000 animals up
to August 3. It is a free, yet indispensable
summer service.

A newspaper editor over the radio recent-
ly said a gun manufacturing company in
the United States is advertising the sale
of small riﬂes to boys for a down payment
of ten cents and ten cents a day until the
riﬂe is paid for. His comment was: “And
we wonder where our gunmen come from!”

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

' Minot, C. H.

 

.n is. , “-3- “5‘...— w........ .w... . «my -- ._. - .,

Page [,6

Associate Life Members

Arnold, Miss Abbie T. Osborne, Lyman P.
Beekman, John V., Jr. Phillips, Mrs. Elizabeth D.
Beekman, Mrs. John V., Jr. Pillsbury, Parker W.
Bessom, Florence C. Pitman, Mrs. Theodore B.
Bliss, Philip W. Pratt, Mrs. Clara E.
Bowler, Mrs. Mary W. Pratt, R. M.
Burdett, Mrs. Paul Putnam, Mrs. Harriett
Burnham, Henry D. Richards, E. Ira
Caldwell, Miss L. W. Richardson, Mrs. Guy
Carpenter, Edwin Z. Rogers, Miss Catherine L.
Coburn, Mrs. C. W. Safford, Mrs. Nath’l M.
Coolidge, Miss Annie Belle Seeberg, Elizabeth
Edmunds, Miss Helen C. Shattuck, Miss G. A.
Fowler, Josiah M. Short, Mrs. Eliza B.
Freshel, Mrs. Curt P. Simmons, Miss F. W.
Goddard, Benjamin Skinner, Mrs. Sarah E.
Grimes, E. E. Soule, Miss Sarah M.
Holland, Miss Florence Stearns, Miss Ellen
Hollingsworth, Mrs. P. R. Stearns, Miss Priscilla
Hooper, Edward W. Stone, Miss Esther A.
Hosmer, Miss Phoebe Lee Thayer, Charles E.
Hyslop, Samuel Thayer, E. K.
Ingram-Eiser, Mrs. Alex- Thayer, Miss Harriet F.
ander Thayer, Miss Marjorie
Jones, Miss Helen L. Thayer, Miss Nancy
King, Mrs. H. P. Van Horn, Dora
Kingsbury, W. S. Van Horn, Elsa
Leve, Mrs. Sigmund Walker, Mrs. William B.
Webster, H. S.
Newcombe, Miss Adelaide Wheelwright, Mrs. A. C.
W. Williams, Mrs. Edward R.

 

Report of the President

(Continued from page 41,)

Newfoundland, Palestine, Lebanon, British
West Indies, Syria, and India.

Addresses by Executive Ofﬁcers

All of the three executive ofﬁcers gave
addresses before various audiences. The
President broadcast a message on- Humane
Sunday from special wires set up in his
ofﬁce. In October he spoke at the dedica-
tion of the new animal hospital of the
Maryland S. P. C. A. in Baltimore. Both
he and the Treasurer gave addresses at
meetings of the Women’s Auxiliary at
Springﬁeld, Mass. The Secretary presented
a paper at the annual Humane Convention
in Houston, Texas, and also at the summer
conference at Amrita Island, Mass.

Summary

With over half a million people counted
in audiences of our ﬁeld workers, through
the circulation of literature and the monthly
magazine, Our Dumb Animals, the total
number of people reached through our
year’s activities is more than a million.

The following summary gives the ﬁgures
as nearly as it is possible to estimate:

Addresses by ﬁeld workers ........ 3,414
Total number in audiences ....... 582,431
Pieces of literature printed. . . . . . . . 250,000
Pieces of literature, etc., distributed

free ............................ 220,000
New Bands of Mercy organized. . . . 6,735

Total Bands of Mercy at end of year 220,900
New members enrolled in Jack

London Club ................... 22,982
Membership of Jack London Club
at end of year .................. 678,871

Current receipts for the American Hu-
mane Education Society were $22,739.67 and
current expenses $24,998.51.

Total receipts for both Societies, $338,-
581.42; total expenses $341,430.33, includ—
ing depreciation charges, making a deﬁcit
of $2,848.91.

FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

OFFICERS OF THE AMERICAN
HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY

FOR 1937
President
DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY
Vice-Presidents

CHARLES G. BANCROFT
WILLIAM DANA ORCUTT

Honorary Vice-Presidents

His Excellency Charles F. Hurley, Governor
of Massachusetts

Ex-Governor Channing H. Cox, Boston _

Ex-Governor Percival P. Baxter, Portland,
Me.

Baldwin, Mrs. M. W., Sioux City, Iowa

Beebe, Ethel Fairmont, Mount Carmel,
Conn.

Boyce, Aline J., Woodstock, Vt.

Clarke, Miss Frances E., New York, N. Y.

Crossman, Mrs. Howard A., Hampton Falls,
N. H.

Dow, Mrs. E. C., Chicago, Ill.

Edge, Mrs. C. N., New York City

Everitt, Mrs. Ellen Knapp, Escondido, Cal.

Frederick, Mrs. O. F., Santa Monica, Calif.

Hardy, Mrs. Richard, Chattanooga, Tenn.

Harris, Mrs. Amy E., Pasadena, Calif.

Krahl, Mrs. Dorothy F., Chicago, Ill.

Landes, Bernard 8., Colorado Springs, Colo.

MacCunn, Captain Fergus, London, Eng.

Manning, Mrs. Alice W., Istanbul, Turkey

McCurrie, Matthew, San Francisco, Calif.

McSkimmon, Miss Mary, Brookline

Preston, Mrs. H. Clay, Binghamton, N. Y.

Ravenscroft, Mrs. Henry, Santa Barbara,
Calif.

Rutherford, Frank B., Philadelphia, Pa.

Saunders, Miss Marshall, Toronto, Ontario

Smith, Payson, Brookline

Sweeney, Mrs. Frank, Memphis, Tenn.

Weeks, Edwin R., Kansas City., Mo.

Wentzel, Wm. F. H., Pittsburgh, Pa.

Williams, Charles A., Monte Carlo, Monaco

Treasurer: ALBERT A. POLLARD
Secretary: GUY RICHARDSON

Counsel: PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY
& STOREY

Directors of the American Humane

Education Society

Dr. Francis H. Rowley, President
Miss Sarah J. Eddy Stanwood K. Bolton
William Dana Orcutt John R. Macomber
Mrs. Geoffrey G. Whitney JOhn R. Forgie
William E. Putnam Mrs. Margaret Deland
Mrs. M. Jennie Kendall Philip Stockton
Charles G. Bancroft Hon. Percival P. Baxter
Walter M. Kendall Edward G. Fischer

Hon. Joseph A. Sheehan

Trustees of Permanent Funds

John R. Macomber, Chairman of the Board,
First Boston Corporation.

Charles G. Bancroft, Vice—President, United
Shoe Machinery Corporation

Philip Stockton, President, First National
Bank of Boston

Mar. 1937

Humane Press Bureau

Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke, Secretary
180 Longwood Ave., Boston

Foreign Corresponding Representatives

George B. Duff ................... Australia
Luis Pareja Cornejo .............. Ecuador
Charles A. Williams .............. France
Leonard T. Hawksley ............. Italy
Mrs. Mary P. E. Nitobe .......... Japan
Mrs. Marie C. S. Houghton ........ Madeira
Dr. A. T. Ishkanian .............. Mexico
Joaquin Julia ..................... Spain
Mrs. Alice W. Manning .......... Turkey

Field Workers of the Society

Mrs. Alice L. Park, Palo Alto, California
Mrs. Rachel C. Hogue, San Diego, California
Mrs. Jennie R. Nichols, Tacoma, Washington
James D. Burton, Harriman, Tennessee

Mrs. Katherine Weathersbee, Atlanta, Georgia
Rev. F. Rivers Barnwell, Fort Worth, Texas
Miss Blanche Finley, Richmond, Virginia
Rev. John W. Lemon, Ark, Virginia

Miss Lucia F. Gilbert, Boston, Massachusetts
Mrs. Jennie R. Toomim, Chicago, Illinois
Seymour Carroll, Columbia, S. C.

Rev. R. E. Grifﬁth, De Land, Florida

Field Representative
Wm. F. H. Wentzel, M.S., Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

Field Lecturer in Massachusetts
Ella A. Maryott

Honorary Members

William B. Allison, Los Angeles, California

Mrs. Julia M. Baldwin, Chicago, Ill.

Miss Louise de St. Hubert Guyol, New Or-
leans, La.

Miss Mary Harrold, Washington, D. C.

Mrs. Marion E. Fraser, Chicago, 111.

Mrs. Alice W. Manning, Istanbul, Turkey

Dr. Carlos Monteverde, Guayaquil, Ecua-
dor

Mrs. Edith L. Smith, New York, N. Y.

M. Roger des Varennes, Paris, France

George Arliss, New York, N. Y.

Mrs. George Arliss, New York, N. Y.

Louis Pareja Cornejo, Quito, Ecuador

Mrs. A. D. McDaniel, South Tacoma, Wash.

Ex-Governor A. V. Donahey, Columbus,
Ohio

Dr. Willis A. Sutton, Atlanta, Ga.

Lyndesay G. Langwill, Edinburgh, Scotland

Active Life Members

Alstrom, Mrs. Dorothy D. Manning, Mrs. Alice W.
Baber, Miss Zonia Marsh, A. M.

Ballard, Dellworth Mitchell, Miss Mary
Barnard, Harry Ransom, John E.
Brennemann, Mrs. Joseph Rogers, Albert R.
Burhans, Mrs. Lela G. Schaaf, Kenneth A.
Crocker, Mrs. Caroline B. Smith, Oliver A

Eddy, Miss Sarah J. Stokes, Miss O. E. Phelps
Fisher, H. Traver, Mrs. L.

Glenn, Miss Carrie Upham, Miss E. Annie
Haile, Mrs. Wm. H. Vanderbilt, Mrs. F. W.
Hardy, Mrs. Richard Whitney, Mrs. Geoffrey G.
Harris, Mrs. Amy E. Will, Mrs. Edwin R.
Kidder, Nathaniel T. Williams, Miss Nellie G.
Lewis, Mrs. F. E. H. Woodward, Miss Mabel M.

Associate Life Members

Barnwell, Almon Angel] Meyer, Miss Heloise
Cabot, Mrs. Susan Newcomb, Miss Adelaide
Curtis, Atherton W
Freshel, Mrs. Curt P.
Furlong, Rollo L.

Gray, Miss Ellen
Larkin, John D.
Marshall, Mrs. Sallie G.

Parker, Miss E. S.
Stone, Miss Esther A.
Todd, Mrs. Albert
Weeks, Edwin R.

Our readers are urged to clip from “Our
Dumb Animals” various articles and request
their local editors to republish. Copies so
mutilated will be made good by us upon
application.

 




 

 

 

 

 

Page 44

Colored Workers in South Carolina and

Texas

Seymour Carroll, with headquarters in
Columbia, South Carolina, addressed 6,500
teachers at summer schools in his own and
adjoining states; held exhibitions at the
South Carolina State Fair and the State
Teachers’ Association; and conducted a hu—
mane press bureau that carried publicity
in colored newspapers throughout the coun—
try. During February, March and April
he issued The Humane News, and circulated
it among teachers, editors, and schools of
both races, in the interests of the national
Be Kind to Animals Week. He secured the
co-operation of the Governor and other
prominent ofﬁcials of South Carolina in is-
suing proclamations for the Week. He gave
addresses in many schools and colleges and
organized a large number of Bands of
Mercy.

In Texas Mr. Barnwell traveled 15,560
miles, visited 126 schools in 73 towns, giving
203 talks and organizing 772 Bands of
Mercy with 81,696 members. He also gave
124 addresses before adult audiences aggre-
gating 18,907, so that altogether he reached
more than 100,000 persons by the spoken
word. He distributed thousands of pieces
of literature at various clubs and conven-
tions. With the co-operation of the local
school board and of the American Humane
Association he produced the pageant, “From
Sea to Sea,” presented by pupils from the
colored schools during the convention at
Houston. He also sponsored programs for
Be Kind to Animals Week in several cities.

In Georgia, Tennessee and Florida

Mrs. Weathersbee visited more than 100
towns in Georgia, involving 11,409 miles of
travel. She organized 87,583 children into
939 Bands of Mercy. She visited six sum—
mer schools, where talks were given and lit-
erature distributed to 6,000 teachers. At
the Southeastern Fair .she sponsored hu—
mane pageants, given twice daily for a
week, and gave out 20,000 pieces of litera-
ture to teachers and other visitors. Eight
other humane education exhibits were held
at Parent-Teacher and various educational
conferences, where great quantities of liter—
ature were distributed.

In Tennessee Mr. Burton traveled 21,500
miles and visited 216 schools, giving 201
talks and reaching 28,200 children. He also
gave 83 other addresses before audiences
totaling 15,000 adults. Mr. Burton co-op-
erated in efforts to improve race relations
and to prevent crime. He finds county
superintendents and school teachers very
cordial towards humane education work.
With his wife, who is a district president
of the Tennessee Congress, he has accomp—
lished much through the Parent—Teacher
Association.

Mr. Griffith visited 80 schools in Florida
and formed 554 Bands of Mercy, enrolling
16,900 pupils. He held humane confer—
ences at Boys’ camps, placed many posters
in schools and other public places, and dis—
tributed literature at kennels, riding
schools, race-tracks, police stations, and li-
braries. He estimates that 19,000 adults
were reached by him during the year. He
uses a loud speaker on the streets with ex-
cellent results.

OUR [DUMB ANIMALS

Work of Two Press Bureaus

The two Press Bureaus of the Society
are constantly sending suitable humane ed-
ucation material to editors throughout the
country. From the Boston office Mrs.
Clarke sends monthly notices to 350 ad—
dresses, while Mrs. Park, from headquar-
ters in Palo Alto, California, sends to 550
newspapers monthly, occasionally increas—
ing the list to 750. But this is only a part
of the work accomplished by them. Mrs.
Clarke, though handicapped several months
by illness, attended 75 Club meetings, giv-
ing addresses at many of them, held a lit-
erature exhibit at the State Parent-Teacher
convention in Springfield, and successfully
arranged for Hospitality Day in April and
for the annual Fair in December at the
headquarters of the Massachusetts S. P. C.
A. Mrs. Park sent literature to a large
number of correspondents, held exhibits at
educational conventions, and made several
addresses in behalf of the cause.

Literature to Foreign Countries

The international scope of the work of
the American Humane Education Society
is shown by the many foreign contacts es-
tablished every year. This season, in ad-
dition to important correspondence relating
to humane work in Morocco, Turkey, Ma-
deira, Mexico, Ecuador and Japan, the So—
ciety sent out literature to Newfoundland,

'England, British West Indies, South Africa,

East Africa, Australia, Chile, Spain, Hun—
gary, Philippine Islands, India, China and
Palestine. About 500 copies of the Spanish
edition of “Friends and Helpers,” a very
helpful book by Miss S. J. Eddy, donated by
the author, were forwarded to select schools
in Ecuador, Mexico, Chile, Argentina, Can—
al Zone, Uruguay, Spain, Cuba and Porto
Rico.

In October, Mrs. Fe de la Pena of Ma-
tanzas, Cuba, formerly associated with the
late Mrs. Ryder, was appointed a field rep—
resentative of our Society. She receive-d the
co—operation of the Governor of Santa Clara
and other prominent oﬂicials in that prov—
ince, sent out letters to school principals
and others, and distributed appropriate lit-
erature setting forth her plans for humane
education.

Literature and Calendars

Among the new titles added to our long
list of humane literature were “The Rela-
tion of the Home to Character Formation,”
a 16-page pamphlet written by President
Rowley especially for distribution at Par-
ent-Teacher conventions, which proved so
popular that two editions of 10,000 copies
each were called for within the year;
“ ‘Don’ and His Boy Scout Friends,” a 4-
page leaflet, 10,000; “Humane Sunday,”
4,000; “Humane Exercises for Schools,
1936,” 8 pages, 20,000; and approximately
5,000 press slips on various humane topics.
About 3,000 calendars, more than half with
colored pictures, were issued. Reprints of
popular titles included 10,000 copies of the
ninth edition of “The Teacher’s Helper,”
and an equal number of several 4-page leaf-
lets on a variety of subjects. Altogether
no less than a quarter of a million copies of
humane literature, from a card to a 32-
page booklet, were published by the Society
during the year.

,Mar, .1937

Be Kind to Animals Week

As usual the Governor of Massachusetts,
in common with Governors of several other
states, issued a Proclamation for Be Kind
to Animals Week and Humane Sunday. The
observance was nation-wide, as indicated by
the reports from all parts of the country
given in Our Dumb Animals. Through its
ofﬁcial organ the Society conducted a
contest for the best humane plays for chil—
dren, offering prizes totaling $50, and re—
ceived more than one hundred manuscripts.
It published special literature both for Hu-
mane Day in Schools and for Humane Sun-
day, as mentioned elsewhere. Nearly one
hundred sound trailers, urging the obser-
vance of Be Kind to Animals Week, were
distributed to theaters in Massachusetts.
Fifteen hundred copies of the national Be
Kind to Animals poster were distributed
throughout the state and elsewhere. Out-
standing was the state-wide poster contest,
open to pupils in public and parochial
schools in Massachusetts. More than 7,000
posters were entered and more than 2,000
medals awarded besides hundreds of honor—
able mentions.

Our Humane Films

The demand for our two films, “The Bell
of Atri,” and “In Behalf of Animals,” con-
tinues uninterrupted, despite the fact that
the former was produced many years ago.
The Board of Education of Detroit bought
its ninth copy of “The Bell of Atri.” Both
films were used freely in the schools of
Chicago, and “In Behalf of Animals” in
schools of Tulsa, Oklahoma. Boston Uni-
versity, School of Education, sent out both
films in response to many calls. In addi-
tion, we had about thirty rentals of each
film during the year.

The Jack London Club

That interest has not lessened in our or—
ganized protest against the cruel training
of animals for stage and screen perform-
ance is proved by the addition of nearly
23,000 names to the membership of the Jack
London Club, the total registration having

reached 678,871. One list of 600 signatures,

including that of the Treasurer of the
United States and other prominent govern-
ment officials, came from Washington, D.
C. To aid in this propaganda we have been
circulating two English books, “Heaven’s
Rage” and “Laugh, Clown, Laugh!” by
Helen Trevelyan, which are worthy succes-
sors to Jack London’s “Michael Brother of
Jerry,” which was the inspiration for start-
ing this unique Club.

Bands of Mercy Very Popular

One of the most hopeful signs of the
progress of humane education is the very
large number of Bands of Mercy, or Juve-
nile Humane Leagues, reported for the year.
They total 6,735, of which nearly 2,000
were in- schools of Chicago, 1,000 in Geor-
gia, more than 900 in Massachusetts, 600 in
Texas, 500 in New York, 400 in South Caro-
lina, 350 in Florida, 330 in Virginia, about
300 in Maine, 230 in North Carolina, more
than 100 in Pennsylvania, and the others
divided among fourteen other states and

(Continued on page 46)

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
     
 
    

(TETRACHLORETHYLENE C. T.)

WORM CAPSULES , "-

effectively remove
Large Roundworms,
and Hookworms,
Dependable, safe, easy-to- -.-:
give worm treatment.
Keep your dog worm free
and thrifty.

WRITE FOR
BOOKLET NO. 6521
nthe practicglgzngtovaa”
of worms 1n es N
ADDRESS DESK -58H

breeds and ag ' Anlmal Industry Dept.
PARKE, DAVIS & co., Detroit, Mich;

Drug Stores Sell Parke- Davis Products

  

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

Buy
“THRILLING MOMENTS ON
PALESTINE TOUR” $5.

(Palestine, Egypt, France, Italy), 25
chapters, 60 pictures. JACOB W.
POWELL, D. D., 218 Broadway,
MALDEN, MASS. (Agents wanted.)

 

 

 

 

 
   
 

air

soon-rm. tuMFUTH” <

  

 

50 AP: "a“ nu To INTMEN-l

 

 

THIS SPACE
CONTRIBUTED

 

 

 

 

Since 1832

J. S. WATERMAN & SONS, Inc.
Mnhertakzrs

BOSTON—BROOKLINE—CAMBRIDGE
City and Out-of-Town Service

 

 

 

 

Humane literature and Band of Mercy Supplies

For Sale at 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass, at these prices, postpaid.

Titles in bold-face type are of books or booklets

Our Dumb Animals, 1936, bound volume $1.00
Colored Posters, 17 x 28 inches, with

attractive pictures and verses, six in

the set ............................. 1.00
Be Kind to Animals Blotters, 6% X 3% $0.50 per 100

About the Horse

Black Beauty (English), cloth,....$1.00 and 50 cts.
What Constitutes Cruelty, Francis .

Rowley ........................ $0. 30 per 100
Humane Horse book, 32 pp., 5 cts. each or 5. 00

The Horse—Treatment of Sores, etc. .60 “ “
Humane Education Leaflet, No. 5 50 “ ‘:
The Horse’s Prayer .................. .30 “ “
The Bell of Atri, poem by Longfellow .. .50 “ ‘

The Care of Mules .................... .50 “ “

About the Dog

Beautiful Joe, new, illus., $1.50 ........ small, 50 cts.
Distemper in Dogs, Dr. Schneider ...... Free
Rabies vs. Running Fits, Dr. Schneider . Free

Eulogy on the Dog, by Vest, post- card 331 00per 100
The Dog—Its Care in Health and Disease .60 “
Feeding the Dog and the Cat, Dr.

Schneider
Humane Education Leaflets, Nos. 3 and 4 .50 “
What the Chained Dog Says .......... .

The Story of Barry .................. .30 “ “
“Don” and His Boy Scout Friends,

J. P. Lyons . ............... .50 " ”
Road Accidents to Dogs, 4 pp. ...... Free
Boots’ Day, play, for two boys and three

girls .................... 3 cts. each, ﬁve for 10 cts.

About the Bird
The Birds of God, 318 pp., illus .......... cloth, $0.45

Trial of the Birds, play, 3 cts. ea. ' ,12 for

25 cts. ......... $2.00 per 100

Humane Education Leaflets, Nos. 1 and 2 .50 per 100
How the Birds Help the Farmer ...... .50 “ “
The Air-gun and the Birds ............ .50 “ “

About the Cat
The Cat——Its Care in Health and Disease $0. 60 per 100

Surplus Cats ........................ .50
The Cat in Literature ................ 50 “ “
Do Not Leave Your Cat to Starve .50 “ “
Mollie Whitefoot’s Vacation ............ .50 “ “
“The Beggar Cat,” post-card, 6 cts. doz. .50 “ “
Tommy’s Tavern, 4 pp. .............. 1.00 “ “
I Knew She was a Lady ............... .50 “ “
About Other Animals
Prince Rudolf’s Quest, Kenniston, 150
pp. ., special ........................ boaids, 50 cts.
The Strike at Shane’s, cloth, 30 cts ..... paper, 7 cts.
For Pity’s Sake ...................... paper, 5cts.

Michael Brother of Jerry, Jack London, cloth, 75 cts.
Heaven’s Rage, Helen Trevelyan ....... 25 cts.
Laugh, Clown. Laugthelen Trevelyan. clotn, $1.00
The Great Cruelty Again, Dr. Rowley .. Free
First Aid to Animals, Dr. Schneider, 8 pp.

$1.00 per 100
Gripped in the Teeth of Steel, 2 pp. 1.00 “ “
How to Kill Animals Humanely, 4 pp... 1. 00 “ “
Humane Education Leaflet, No.6, Animals .50 “ “
Ways of Kindness

.................... .50 per 100

Humane Education Leaflet, No. 7, Farm
Animals ........................... .50 “ “
A Wise Fish .......................... .50 “ “

The Jack London Club

What is the Jack London Club? ........ 3.0 per 100
Foreword from “Michael Broth‘br of Jerry” .30 “
Films, Fakes and Facts, Helen Trevelyan,
..... .50 “
Do Wild Animals Prefer Captivity? Helen
Trevelyan, 4 pp. ....................

Humane Education

The Relation of the Home to Character
Formation, Dr. Francis H. Rowley. .. Free
The Humane Bulletin, for use in schools,
96p ................. 12 cents each; ten for $1. 00
Carep and Kindness for Our Animal
Friends, 29 pp., paper covers, many
illus. .............. 15 cents each; seven for $1. 00
Kindness Picture Book, 32 pp. 15 cts. ; seven for $1. 00
The Teacher’s Helper in Humane Edu-
cation, 32 pp ....................... each, 10 cts.
An Early Start to Kindness, Lucia F.
Gilbert, 48 pp. For ﬁrst and second
grades .......................... each, 10 cts.
Incidents About Animals as Told to
School Children by George T. Angell
2 cts. each; $1.00 per 100
Picture Lesson Cards, each 10 cts., set

‘6 6‘

of eight ........................... 35 cts.
“Be Kind to Animals” pennants ...... each, 25 cts.
The Humane Idea, Dr. Francis H.

Rowley .............. cloth, 35 cts.; paper, 15 cts.
Friends and Helpers (selections for

school use) Sarah J. Eddy .......... cloth $1.00

Lessons on Kindness to Animals $3.00 per 100
The B—K—T—A—Club, play, 3 cts. each; ten for 25c.
Fred Changes His Mind, play, 5 cts. each; six for 25c.
“And a Little Child Shall Lead Them,”

play ................ 3 cts. each; ten for 25 cts.
Friends of Fur and Feather, play .

3 cts. each; ten for 25 cts.

Humane Exercises ................... $1i 50 per 100
Humane Sunday, 1937 . .00
Humane Education the Vital Need, Dr.

Rowley, short radio address, 2 cts. each; .75 “ “
Humane Education, What to Teach and

How to Teach It . ............ .50 “ “
Outlines of Study in Humane Education 1. 50 “ “
Early Lessons in Kindness or Cruelty .. .50 “ “

A Talk with the Teacher ............... .50 “ “
Our Love for Animals, a short radio ad-

dress .................. 2 cts. each; 1. 00 “ “
The Coming Education ................ .30 “ “
A Festival of Tender Mercies .......... .50 “ “
Need of Humane Education Societies and

Methods of Forming Them .......... .50 “ “
Bookmark. with “A Humane Prayer” 1.00 “
A Great Prophecy, Dr. Rowley ........ Free

Band of Mercy

“Be Kind to Animals” Buttons, three

styles—Band of Mercy, Humane So-

ciety, or S. P. C. A.. ..... $1. 00 per 100
Buttons—white star on blue ground with

gilt letters and border, one cent each 1.00 “ “
Badges, gold finish, large, 10 cts. small 5 cts.
“Band of Mercy” Pennant ...... 35 cts.
Songs of Happy Life, With music, S.

J. Eddy ........................ 50 cts.
Songs of Happy Life (56 pages, words

only) ............................. $3. 00 per 100
Band of Mercy Membership Card ...... 5.0 “
How to Form Bands of Mercy ...... .50 “ “

Does it Pay, Story of one Band of Mercy .30 “ “
No order by mail for less than 5 cts.

Please enclose remittance with orders for less than $1

AMERICAN HUMAN E EDUCATION SOCIETY, 180 Longwood Ave, Boston, Mass.

 

 

 

 

REDUCED PRICES FOR SUMMER RENTALS!

“IN BEHALF OF ANIMALS”

Film showing activities of Angell Animal Hospital of lVTassachusetts S. P. C. A., Boston,
scenes at Society s Rest Farm for Horses, Methuen, and its Animal Shelters. Two reels,

“THE BELL OF ATRI”

One-reel Film, illustrating Longfellow’s poem of the same title

30 minutes.

State whether regular 35 mm.,

or 16 mm., is required
Terms on application to Secretary, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 112

Arguments Against the Zoo
(Continued from page 101)

the zoo are conﬁned, cowed, broken in spirit
and hope, that they are able to endure, day
after endless day, the gaping, chattering,
peanut-feeding throng that halts in amused
curiosity before the prison cages. If ques-
tioned on the subject, doubtless the majority
of these visitors would say: “0, the animals
are well cared for, doctored when ill and
each species supplied with food and sur-
roundings similar to what it would have in
its native habitat.” In so far as it is possible
to supply these things, that may be true, but
it is not enough. So, also, does the convict
in his narrow cell have sufﬁcient and suit-
able food, medical service when necessary,
light and air to permit the continuance of
eyesight and breathing; but is he happy?
Is he living as God intended him to live?
Yet in his case there is a reason—he has
committed a crime and is being made to suf-
fer as punishment. Not so the captive
beast—IT is wholly innocent of any wrong.
Always at man’s mercy and by his hand the
dumb must suffer long and miserably, en-
dure stoically (as all animals do) and ﬁnd
release only in the glad miracle of pre-
ferred death.

A few ﬂoating cakes of ice in water at
the proper temperature may fool the keeper
of the zoo; but to the polar bear in cap-
tivity it merely maintains life. He never
for a moment believes that he is on an
ice-ﬂoe in the Arctic, that huge icebergs are
grinding past him, that the northern lights
are shifting back and forth across the
boundless wastes of trackless snow and that
he is ﬁshing his breakfast from the icy
waters with his own clumsy paws! His
heart—hungry longing for the real, the na-
tural, is never fooled nor satisﬁed.

Watch the bewildered, interminable,
hauntingly restless, poignantly escape-seek-
ing pace of the lion, tiger, bear, leopard, wolf
and many others. Back and forth, around
and around their enclosure in an ever-
hopeful, but how hopeless, search for some
tiny, undiscovered loophole of escape from
the torture of hated bondage. The air is
fetid and heavy and impure, the noise of
discontent and suffering from other cages
is disturbing, sight-seeing throngs are
nerve-wracking to these high-strung, fright—
ened, heartsick creatures yearning ever for
the lost and familiar sights, sounds, foods,
and odors of their individual homelands.

Note the frenzied eagle and hawk and
other feathered folks beating against their
cages’ conﬁnes or drooping in dejected de-
spair on grotesquely imitated natural
perches. 0, What utter helplessness and
yearning is expressed in the voiceless lan-
guage of those outspread, quivering wings—
wings that plead for release to soar away to
that distant, ever-beckoning blue!

There is no weight to the argument that
the study of life in a zoo may beneﬁt biology,
science, history or education. To secure
correct data on the true nature, habits,
food, manner of living, offspring, etc., of
any form of wild life it should be studied
in its native haunts and natural state by
those deeply interested in such study and
ﬁtted to pass on accurate ﬁndings to the
slightly interested masses by means of
books, photographs, lectures, colored slides.
The conﬁned animal is no more its normal

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

self than is the imprisoned man. In fact the
contrast between the free and the impris-
oned is even greater in the case of the wild
creature.

So for the masses of humanity (and sure-
ly they form the majority) who love all of
God’s creatures, and with understanding
hearts, do not wish to see unnecessary suf-
fering and torture imposed upon any of
them, there is no argument FOR the zoo
and only one needed AGAINST it—its in-
humaneness.

Sanctuaries, yes, by all means and pro-
tection in our National Parks, but the zoo
and its conﬁnement—NEVER.

Parent-Teacher Congress

MONG the representatives of the

American Humane Education Society
who attended the National Congress of
Parents and Teachers at Richmond, Vir-
ginia, in May, were Mrs. Jennie R. Nichols,
national chairman of humane education,
Miss Blanche Finley of Richmond, and Mr.
Wm. F. H. Wentzel of Pittsburgh. Mrs.
Nichols, with Miss Finley acting as secre—
tary, conducted the humane education con-
ference, directing discussion on the topic,
“Humane Element Vital to Community
Welfare.”

“The ﬁrst objective in the humane edu—
cation program,” says Mrs. Nichols, “is to
build into the hearts of children the whole-
some trait of regard for the rights of
others in preparation for tolerant and sym—
pathetic participation in community life.

“Though we would choose to believe other-
wise, cruelty holds a devastating sway in
organized society and must be recognized
as a destructive agent at work blighting
the ﬁner and nobler impulses of humanity.
Humane education holds promise of a future
in which cruelty will be the natural concern
of its citizens, who as children learned the
secret of the power of kindness.”

Mrs. Nichols was also chairman of the
special committee on ﬁrearms education,
which reported these recommendations:

1. That we endeavor to make parents
aware of the potential danger of ﬁrearms
to the safety and lives of individuals, birds,
and animals.

2. That no child should be allowed to
possess a gun except under proper super-
vision and instruction on the care and
handling of such weapons.

3. That with possession of a gun, youth-
ful owners should be made aware of the
sacredness of all life, taught respect for
existing game and conservation laws regard-
ing wild life.

July, 1937

 

IN THE EDITOR’S LIBRARY

IGLOO STORIES, Clarence Hawkes.

Six fascinating stories about the most
important animals of the Far North com-
prise Mr. Hawkes’s latest book. We reiter-
ate with a host of others that it is always
a pleasure to read whatever comes from
the pen of this author who, in spite of
many obstacles and physical handicaps, has
had the fortitude to carry on and give to
the world some forty—ﬁve books and innum-
erable poems. His career has been a re-
markable one, and as a number one story-
teller he has received the hearty endorse-
ments. of most of his literary contem-
poraries.

The sextet of Arctic dwellers includes
“Niksuk,” the seal; “Iwok,” the walrus;
“Omingmong,” the musk-ox; “Silverking,”
the great white polar bear; and “Blue Fox”
whose coat of rare beauty is often the
cause of his living an extremely short life
that he may adorn the shoulders of many
a lovely lady. Finally comes the tale of
the “White Wolf,” seeking his prey, the
terror of his forest associates, until the
creature he has learned to call man comes
with a gun to end his life.

The stories are packed with thrills and
exciting interludes that will quicken the
adventurous heart of all who read them.

152 pp., $1.50 net, Christopher Publishing
House, Boston.

 

A farmer near Tullahoma, Tennessee,
celebrated the twenty-third birthday of his
faithful horse by postponing a ﬁve-mile
haul of wood to a customer in town and
allowing the animal to remain in his stall,
nibbling oats and hay in honor of the
event.

Our Dumb Animals

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston Ofﬁce: 180 Longwood Av-
enue.

 

 

Address all communications to Boston.

TERMS

One dollar per year. Postage free to any part of
the world.

All dollar subscriptions sent direct to the office en-
title the sender to membership in either of our two
Societies.

RATES OF MEMBERSHIP IN

THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
OR THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.

Active Life $100 00 Active Annual $10 00

Associate Life 50 00 Associate Annual 5 00

Sustaining 20 00 Annual 1 00
Children’s $0.75

Checks and other payments may be sent to ALBERT
A. POLLARD, Treasurer, 180 Longwood Avenue,
Boston.

Manuscripts should be addressed to the Editor, 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston.

 

 

TO OUR FRIENDS

In making your will, kindly bear in mind that the corporate title of our Society is
“The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals”; that it is the
second incorporated (March, 1868) Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals
in the country, and that it has no connection with any other similar Society.

Any bequest especially intended for the beneﬁt of the Angell Memorial Animal
Hospital should, nevertheless, be made to The Massachusetts Society for the Preven-
tion of Cruelty to Animals “for the use of the Hospital,” as the Hospital is notincor-
porated but is the property of that Society and is conducted by it.

FORM OF BEQUEST

I give to The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (or
to the American Humane Education Society), the sum of ...... _ ..............
dollars (or, if other property, describe the property).

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

Dec. 1937

1:1.
‘
\
§

\
E;
"V

\

 

Founded by Geo. T. Angell. Incorporated March, 1868

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds
JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First
Boston Corporation
CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President, United Shoe
Machinery Corporation
PHILIP STOCKTON, President, First National Bank of
Boston

Prosecuting Ofﬁcers in Boston
Telephone (Complaints,Ambulances) Longwood 6100

L. WILLARD WALKER, Chief Ofﬁcer
HARRY L. ALLEN DAVID A. BOLTON
HARVEY R. FULLER HOWARD WILLAND

County Prosecuting Oﬂicers
HERMAN N. DEAN, Boston
Middlesex, Norfolk and Plymouth
FRED T. VICKERS, Lynn Eastern Essex
WILLIAM W. HASWELL, Methuen Western Essex
FRED F. HALL, Springﬁeld
Hampden, Hampshire and Franklin
ROBERT L. DYSON, Worcester orcester
CHARLES E. BROWN, Attleboro Bristol
HAROLD G. ANDREWS, Hyannis
Barnstable, Dukes and Nantucket

T. KING HASWELL, Pittsﬁeld Berkshire
Rest Farm for Horses and Small Animal Shelter,
Methuen

W. W. HASWELL, Superintendent
Taunton Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.—-MRS.

HOWARD F.
WELL, Sec.

Northampton Branch of the Mass. S. P. C. A.—
MRS. EDITH WASHBURN CLARKE, Pres.; MRS. MAUDE
WEIR, Treas.

Women’s Auxiliary of the Mass. S. P. C. A., 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston—~MRS. EDITH WASHBURN
CLARKE, Pres.; MRS. AGNES P. FISHER, Ch. Work
Com. First Tuesday.

Springﬁeld Branch Auxiliary—MRS. DONALD C.
KIBBE, Pres.; MRS. HERBERT F. PAYNE, Treas. Second
Thursday.

Winchester Branch Auxiliary—MRS. RICHARD S.
TAYLOR, Pres.; MISS BESSIE SMALL, Treas. Second
Thursday.

Fitchburg Branch, Am. Humane Education Soc.—

MR. FRANCIS KIELTY, Pres.; BRADLEY W. LEONARD,
Treas.

WOODWARD, Pres.; MRS. THOS. H. CAS-

MONTHLY REPORT OF SOCIETY
AND BRANCHES

Miles traveled by humane ofﬁcers. . 16,416
Cases investigated ............... 380
Animals examined ............... 6,205
Animals placed in homes ......... 174
Lost animals restored to owners. . 63
Number of prosecutions .......... 1
Number of convictions ............ 1
Horses taken from work ........... 16
Horses humanely put to sleep. . . . 80

Small animals humanely put to sleep 1,180

Stock-yards and Abattoirs

Animals inspected ................ 59,703
Cattle, swine and sheep humanely
put to sleep .................... 18

The Massachusetts Society for the Pre-
vention of Cruelty to Animals has been re-
membered in the wills of Ann L. Marsh Of
Quincy, Blanche B. Parker of Winthrop,
and Alice R. Wells Of Cambridge.

November 9, 1937.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

ANGELL MEMORIAL ANIMAL
HOSPITAL

and Dispensary for Animals
184 Longwood Avenue Telephone, Longwood 6100

Veterinarians

«. DAILEY, v.M.D., Chief of Staff
H. SCHNEIDER, v.M.D., Asst. Chief
F. SCHROEDER, D.V.M.

B. SCHNELLE, v.M.D.

O. MUNSON, v.M.D.

L

H

53.9.9???

. BLAKELY, v.M.D.
ARRY L. ALLEN, Superintendent

Springfield Branch

Telephone 4-7355
53-57 Bliss Street, Springﬁeld, Mass.

Veterinarians
A. R. EVANS, v.M.D. H. L. SMEAD, D.V.M.

 

 

 

HOSPITAL REPORT FOR OCTOBER
Including Springﬁeld Branch

Hospital Dispensary
Cases entered 936 Cases 2,562
Dogs 716 Dogs 2,164
Cats 212 Cats 340
Birds 3 Birds 36
Horses 2 Monkeys 7
Goats 2 Goats 5
Rabbit 1 Horses 4

Squirrels 2
Rabbits 2
Turtles 2
Operations 819
Hospital cases since opening, Mar.
1, 1915 ....................... 154,775
Dispensary cases ............... 380,582
Total ........... 535,357
The Month in the Springﬁeld Branch
Cases entered in Hospital .......... 178
Cases entered in Dispensary ........ 499
Operations ....................... 146

For the Horses’ Christmas

HE Massachusetts S. P. C. A. will Ob-

serve its annual custom of distributing
Christmas dinners for horses on the day
before the holiday. SO dense and crowded
have the in—town squares and other areas
become by motor trafﬁc and parking, that
it has been deemed impractical to set up
a “Tree” at any single spot. The Society’s
trucks and ambulances will carry Christmas
dinners for the horses at their stables and
distribute, en route, to as many individuals
as can be reached. The horses of “peddlers’
row” will be visited and each supplied with
a generous feed of cats, cut-up apples and
carrots.

So many have contributed towards this
holiday celebration in the past that we feel
they and others will very gladly send a dona-
tion. This annual custom is held as a deserv-
ing recognition Of the faithful service that
the horses are still rendering in the com-
mercial life of the city and is made possible
by the generosity of their constant friends.

Endowed stalls and kennels are needed
in the Angel] Memorial Animal Hos-
pital. Payments of thirty-ﬁve dollars
for a kennel or seventy-ﬁve dollars for
a stall will insure a suitable marker
inscribed with donor’s name. Terms of
permanent endowment of free stalls and
kennels will be given upon application.

Page 185

Humane Societies and

Rabies

N our November issue we had a brief

article telling of the eliminating of rabies
from Hamilton County, Ohio, in which
county is the city of Cincinnati. This was
all done by co-operation between the coun-
ty commissioners and the Hamilton County
S. P. C. A., the county commissioners really
furnishing the money for a proper shelter
for all lost and stray dogs, making the
agents of the Society the dog Ofﬁcers, and
the county commissioners really bearing the
expense of the entire work.

There are three dog pound wagons or
trucks and a motorcycle ambulance, while
the S. P. C. A. operates an additional
ambulance. Each dog wagon has a crew
of two men which, with the motorcycle man,
makes a total crew of seven deputy dog
wardens on the county payroll. The SO-
ciety has one man on its ambulance paid
by the S. P. C. A. These four ambulances
and motorcycle SO co-ordinate their work in
Hamilton County that the least amount of
duplication is barely possible. By gather-
ing up all the stray and wandering dogs
and, in the great majority of cases, having
them put humanely to Sleep, rabies was
practically eliminated. In 1927, for example,
there were 840 cases of dog bites and 205
cases of rabies reported. In 1935, with 1,307
bites by dogs, there was no rabies, and in
1936, with 1,280 bites reported, there was one
case Of rabies reported which turned out
to be a suspect and not positive, so that in
less than ten years rabies was eliminated
in a city of 450,000.

We have just received a report Of a meet-
ing of the humane societies of California
during which an address by the city health
Ofﬁcer Of Palo Alto urged upon the dele-
gates the muzzling of all dogs for a period
of two years in an effort to eliminate rabies.
The amount of suffering involved in muz-
zling dogs is a very serious matter and it
would seem that such a plan as that made
possible in Cincinnati is vastly superior to
anything like an attempt to muzzle all the
dogs of a great state for a period of two
years. We hope California may ﬁnd some
method Similar to that used by the Hamil-
ton County Society.

Fashion and Feathers

A French humane periodical says, “The
return to fashion Of the plumage Of birds
on the hats Of women arouses indignation.
To satisfy this feminine demand millions
Of birds are ‘massacred.’ The most beauti-
ful of our birds will disappear.” In the
United States both the federal and state
laws protect our birds against such demands
Of a heartless fashion. The Massachusetts
Audubon Society sums up the laws both of
the state and federal government in the
following words: The attention of all mil-
liners was called to the fact that both state
and federal laws forbid the sale or pos-
session Of the feathers of wild birds, wheth-
er native or imported. It is illegal to wear,
possess, sell, or Offer for sale such feathers.

Horse sense behind the steering wheel is
better and more important than horsepower
under the hood.

 

 




 

Page 188

 

THE MASCOT OF THE

OUR DUlllB ANIMALS

Yes! it was a case
of warm milk.

Beyond supplying
the food I left Tabs
alone. Mothers have
feelings that must
be considered, she
had told me. But it
was a proud day for
both of us when she
appeared with a fat
little ball of fluff in
her mouth and pop-
ped it on the rug by
me. Four journeys
she made, and each
new arrival seemed
dearer than the last.
Then Tabs lay down
at my feet content.

The little ﬂuﬁs
nestled up to her,
they tumbled over
each other and were
smacked and told to
behave. Then, when
she thought it was
time for the cup-

MILL board again, she

 

“Tabs”

MARY HARAS

EST a plain Tabby.

The French windows were open and
she walked in one day. She was Next
Door’s cat and Next Door was in France
for a month.

She stood hesitating on the threshold.
We had only seen each other from a dis-
tance before. Was I a friendly human or
not?

“What do you want, ‘Tabs?’ ” I said
gently. A not particularly intelligent re-
mark, but it served. Slowly she ventured
in, and, encouraged by my voice, came up
to be stroked.

We were both lonely. My people were
abroad, too, and we each sensed the other’s
need.

I found the chauffeur put out milk every
day for her, and once a week there were
lights, but what was that to the pampered
kitchen cat of a large house? And an
outhouse to take refuge in instead of a
warm kitchen at night, and no tempting
scraps, no ﬁsh—can you wonder poor Tabs
felt lonely? We told each other what we
thought about it.

But one day when we were on more
friendly terms she explained to me her
real grievance. It wasn’t the cook or the
choice scraps she really needed, but a cup-
board, and that a family she’d moused for
for years, and a cook she’d purred for
should have played her such a trick was
almost unbelievable.

So we found a cupboard, a lovely roomy,
old-tennis-shoes’ cupboard and we popped a
cozy bit of blanket in it. Tabs purred
approval.

She inspected it daily, and then used to
come and tell me all she thought about it,
and even suggested warm milk would be
necessary later, and a little sympathetic
attention.

One morning there was no Tabs to greet

me, so very gingerly I peeped round the
cupboard door.

made the four jour-
neys and I settled
down to my book. She came in alone later to
know what I thought of them, and I think
our nursery chat was a very satisfactory
one.

That night Next Door returned—at least
the maids did—and the cook called to en-
quire if I had “seen the puss.”

She went back for a basket. “The young
ladies will love the kits,” she remarked.
“They’ll be back tomorrow.”

I shall never forget Tabs as she followed
the basket. She turned and, as plainly as
possible, told me that she had got to go
for the moment but that we should see.

Within half an hour all ﬁve were back
in the cupboard.

Three times a maid arrived with a bas-
ket. Three times Tabs brought the family
back. So Next Door gave it up. Only when
her children became tiresome, and she
found maternal cares began to bore did
Tabs and Co. leave me for their own home.

But though the cook and the kitchen ﬁre
and choice scraps and the ﬁsh served for
between times, whenever it’s been a ques-
tion of a family since, back to the old-
tennis-shoes’ cupboard she ﬁnds her way,
while she tells me what she thinks of Next

Door for leaving her all on her own that
summer.

After the death of a friend (Sir Thomas
Noon Talfourd) Charles Dickens wrote:
“The chief delight of his life was to give
delight to others. His nature was so ex-
quisitely kind, that to be kind was its
highest happiness.”

Prayer for a Seeing-eye Dog
DOROTHY HARRIMAN SUTTON

Lord, make her ever steady-—
Keep her body strong,

This wonder-working dog

Who sees for two!

Bless her keen mind,

And bless her staunch, brave heart;
And bless the man for whom

She plays her part!

Dec. 1937

Northern Dogs Starving

L. E. EUBANKS

HEN a child neglects or abandons a

pet because he is tired of it, we try
to be tolerant, hoping that added years,
with education from parents, will bring
that humane feeling so indispensable to real
character.

But what are we to think of adults, par—
ticularly men who have been in a position
to know animals thoroughly, when they
commit Virtually the same offense?

Many dog owners of the North must be
as heartless as the wretch who turned aged
and crippled horses out in the woods to
starve when an automobile took the horse’s
place. While professional mushers have been
driving teams of husky dogs in races to
new international fame over the snowy
tundra, hundreds of huskies have been
starving in the frontier settlements of the
far North.

Most of the famous long-distance dog
racers of the Canadian northland make
their home in the Pas, Manitoba, and they
feed their ﬂeet canines on fresh eggs, chick-
en wings and other choice morsels. Sledge
dogs such as these live royally. But back in
the adjoining settlements of Canada, starv-
ing huskies constitute a positive menace.
Police at the Pas have been shooting dozens
of them in order to protect life and prop-
erty. Dogs that were once considered to be
worth their weight in gold are now worth-
less.

A few years ago the North struck a new
mining and railroad boom. Freight dogs
were in great demand. Strong pups eight
or nine months old and barely broken to
harness were frequently sold for as much
as a hundred dollars apiece; and the Can-
adian National Railway construction or-
ganization at one time had scores of such
dogs in constant use.

These were not the ﬂeet spoon-fed cross
breed for sledge races, but they were husk-
ies in every sense of the word. They were
born and bred to haul pay loads, and the
North swarmed with them. In summer the
dog population at the Pas and other north-
ern Canadian settlements frequently ex-
ceeded the number of people there, and the
summer nights were musical indeed with
the eerie call from countless throats.

The advent of the Hudson Bay, Flin Flon
and Cold Lake railroads struck dog freight-
ing extremely hard. Horses were introduced
for heavy work in and out of the bush coun—
try that lies beyond the end of steel, and
airplanes got the preference where speed
was essential.

With horses, trains and airplanes in the
limelight, the husky was left out in the cold.
If he is fast enough to earn race—team har-
ness he is lucky, and much more fortunate
than the thousands of his kind who are
actually starving. If they are a menace is
it their fault?

Why do cats appear to ﬁnd pleasure in
torturing the smaller creatures they cap-
ture, playing with mouse or bird as if its
fright and desire to escape amused it?
What is the answer? Is it the cat’s nature?
Do the great cats, the leopard, the tiger,
play with their prey? Who will answer
the question?

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 91;
@119 ﬂaw?! of ﬂurry

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

E. A. MARYOTT, State Organizer
PLEDGE

I will try to be kind to all living creatures and
try to protect them from cruel usage.

The American Humane Education Society Wlll send
to every person who formsaBand of Mercy of thirty
members, and sends the name chosen for the Band
and the name and post-ofﬁce address of the pres1-
dent who has been duly elected, special Band of
Mercy literature and a gilt badge for the pres1dent.
See inside front cover for pr'ces of literature and

Band of Mercy Supplies.

NEW BANDS OF MERCY

Eight hundred and forty—three new Bands
of Mercy were reported during April. Of
these there were 350 in Illinois, 134 in
Texas, 121 in Maine, 113 in Virginia, 54 in
South Carolina, 23 in Pennsylvania, 18 in
Newfoundland, 17 in Florida, ﬁve in Geor-
gia, two in Syria, and one each in Cali-
fornia, Michigan, Missouri, Oregon, Pales-
tine and West Virginia.

Total number of Bands of Mercy organ-
ized by Parent American Society, 223,619.

Ninety-one pupils of the Chelsea (Mass)
Senior High School have been recently en-
rolled in the Jack London Club. Their teach-
er, Miss Pearl A. Maynard of the biology
department, regularly explains the meaning
and the aims of the Club.

Miss Marshall Saunders, recently awarded
a medal by the Societe Litteraire et Artisti-
que de France, writes: “I have taken Our
Dumb Animals for forty-three years, and
the longer I read it the better I like it.
It is wisely and cleverly conducted, and
there is no limit to the service it renders
to the cause of helpless childhood and mis-
understood dumb animals.”

The Cardinal’s Song

Alone on the topmost branch
Of the maple tree,

At the edge of the coming night
He sang to me!

The sun on his crested head
Shone with the ﬁre

Of the song that was joyfully
His heart’s desire.

How often upon the bough
He has heard the rain,

Never too sure the sun
Would shine again!

How often the lightning tore
At his feathered breast,

And the winds and the beating rain
Destroyed his nest.

Never has this bird known
Security,

And yet such a hymn of praise
He sings to me.

I feel my hopes soar again,
My glad thoughts start,

And face the world with a song
In my thankful heart!

ANNE CAMPBELL in Boston Globe

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

June, 1937

 

MISS MARSHALL SAUNDERS, NOTED AUTHOR OF “BEAUTIFUL JOE” AND
MANY OTHER JUVENILE BOOKS, FEEDING PIGEONS IN THE GARDEN AT
HER HOME, TORONTO, ONTARIO

 

The James Giles Bands
of Mercy"

S a rule, the ﬁnest results of true edu-

cation are seldom seen by the teacher.
The integration of a pupil’s personality is
rarely manifest in his present day living
as the teacher sees him, but values which
he does achieve are most often built into
him by the concepts which he has acquired
and which govern his conduct with respect
to his attitudes toward other living beings.
It is true that rarely does the teacher see
these personality traits in the child, but
when she does she feels that her efforts
have been well rewarded, and it is like a re-
kindled incentive to continue. In our school
we have found that the utmost satisfaction
has come to us from our participation in a
humane education program. It seems that
no child can be said to be bad. Our society
would be a hopeless world if this were true.
But we might safely say that some children
do wrong because of ignorance of what is
socially correct.

This reminds me of an incident which
happened in one of our club meetings. The
children had been participating in discus-
sions about what they had observed in re-
gard to humane treatment of birds and
animals. One little fellow, a fourth grader,
said, “Oh, I saw Billy shooting birds one
day with a sling-shot.” Billy indignantly
rose to his feet, saying, “I wasn’t shooting
birds, I was only shooting sparrows.” What
a good example this was to use in educating
this youngster to the sense of equality in
the animal. Inherently he wanted to be
kind to animals but he had been thinking
that sparrows were nothing and should be
shot or done away with.

In our program of humane education we
have found it most valuable to organize

each room as a separate unit system in
which each is called “The Band of Mercy
of—such a grade.” Each Band elects its
ofﬁcers who preside over the meeting as
much as they are able to with as little
interference from the teacher as possible.
Our ﬁrst graders were too young to partici-
pate successfully alone so we had them meet
with the eighth grade. They studied pic-
tures together or had oral reports or art
exhibits. As far as possible, this work has
been correlated with our curriculum, for
many valuable lessons in language, health,
geography, etc. Also, we have socialized
our activities by having all members of
each club contribute something to the vari-
ous projects of the club. These may be
posters, pictures, scrap—books, bird-houses,
feeders and many other things which show
the individual’s achievement and his contri-
bution to the group.

In all we have found our humane educa—
tion program to have given liberally to our
children’s growth for they have not only
received theoretical knowledge read in books
or spoken by teachers, but have actually
dealt with life situations in which the real-
ization of a sympathetic understanding has
been acquired. JOHN V. LEIGH

Principal, James Giles School
Oriole and Cullum Avenues
Dunning Station, Chicago, 111.

To Mrs. W. F. Krahl, chairman of Hu-
mane Education for the Parent-Teacher
Association in Chicago, Mr. Leigh wrote:

“I wish to compliment you on your efforts
and successful administration of the Bands
of Mercy. I have found that education of
this kind has been valuable to the ﬁve
hundred children participating in this pro—
gram in our school and should like to have
other groups hear of what satisfaction we
have had.”

 

 

 

 




 

 

June, 1937

Pageant in Fort Worth

ADIO addresses by the Rev. F. Rivers

Barnwell, ﬁeld worker of the American
Humane Education Society, were given on
station KFJ Z in Fort Worth, Texas. Awards
to Negro children for humane posters and
scrapbooks were presented at a colorful pro—
gram given in Greenway Park, April 17.
Outstanding was a pageant, “The Nations
in Humane Ideals,” by pupils of the various
schools. It opened with the American In-
dian, with these words: “If America had
followed the example of the early Indian
in his love and care for animals we would
be more humane today. The Indians had
no humane societies for the care and pro-
tection of animals but they loved them most
devotedly. They did not kill animals for
sport but only when they needed them for
food for their families. Every child is
familiar with Longfellow’s story of Hia-
watha and his love for birds and other

animals.” Other countries represented were
Spain, France, Italy, Scotland, Sweden,
Japan, Ireland, Germany and England,

while references to Henry Bergh’s founding
of the ﬁrst S. P. C. A. in the United States
closed the unique presentation. There was
an address by W. A. Meacham, assistant
superintendent of the Fort Worth schools,
and recitations by James Robinson and
John Ervin Barnwell.

California Celebrates

The Latham Foundation for the Promo—
tion of Humane Education, Oakland, Cali-
fornia, sponsored ﬁfteen radio programs
over stations .KLX, KFRC, KPO, KJBS,
KQW, and KGO, with addresses by the
mayors of San Francisco and of Oakland
and other prominent men and women, and
exercises by school children. Hilda Isles,
lecturer for the Foundation, with her
Seeing-eye dog “Erna,” spoke at the Rose-
crucian Anthroposophic League, San Fran-
cisco, on Humane Sunday, and at the
Fraternal Fellowship of America, San
Francisco Lodge, No. 1, on Thursday. The
Foundation announces that it will soon
award medals for heroic service to four
dogs and one cat.

The City of Los Angeles, Humane Depart-
ment, reports that the VJeek was more
generally observed and brought more re—
sponse from the public than ever before.
The Board of Education sent a letter to all
schools, asking for the observance of the
Week and arranging for all'speakers that
could be provided. Bert Morse gave three
inspiring talks over various radio stations.
Mayor Frank A. Shaw issued a proclama-
tion. Mrs. Helen A. French, president of
the Board of Commissioners, and Mr. Morse
reached thousands of school children and
distributed literature and posters. Their
talks took the form of a real crusade against
the BB guns and how to safeguard animals
from annoyance and suffering. Churches
and Sunday-schools co-operated splendidly,
as did the Salvation Army. The city library
and its 49 branches displayed posters and
appropriate books, and provided story—
tellers.

Please remember the American Humane
Education Society of Boston in your will.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Page 93

 

A PRACTICAL ILLUSTRATION OF BE KIND TO ANIMALS
WEEK

 

The splendid work accomplished by the
Massachusetts S. P. C. A. is generally
known, but it is pleasant to note that the
Society continues to carry on with its orig-
inal vim its efforts in behalf of dumb
animals. —-Post, Boston

How much good a Be Kind to Animals
Week does we have no idea. It certainly
can do no harm. . . The person who abuses
an animal is a Vile beast; a coward, of
course. ——Traveler, ,Boston

As civilization progresses, as man himself
gains knowledge, it is inevitable that more
and more consideration will be given to ani-
mals, including beasts of burden, pets and
denizens of woods and ﬁelds.

—Telegram, Worcester

We live and move among God’s other
creatures—be kind to ’em.

———Courier Citizen, Lowell

Cows and horses on the farms are as
much entitled to kindness and good care as
are the house pets, and if we are to use
animals as food, there is an obligation to
see that the transportation and killing of
them be carried on in the most humane
manner possible.

—Standard—Times, New Bedford

Organized humane work, including Brock-
ton’s, hardly needs such a stimulus. Dumb
animals are protected and sheltered 52
weeks of every year. But the work merits
stronger support and more general co-
operation. The public must needs be aroused.

~Enterprise, Brockton

There are many people who, through
thoughtlessness, in little things, neglect the
welfare of four-footed pets. Bringing this
to mind and educating the young to be
merciful and kindly is increasing a Chris-
tian spirit and those practices emphasized
during the present week, and continued
through this and following years, will make
for a better world. —Gazette, Taunton

All of us should pause to consider the
dumb animals about us, and to realize how

Chips from the Press of Massachusetts

fully they depend upon us humans for
their welfare. —News, Malden

The end of this formal observance should
not signalize any let-up in the general cam-
paign to protect the interests of these
creatures that cannot speak for themselves.

——Gazette, Northampton

“Kindness to Animals Week” is with us.
Let’s try to observe it all the year around.
—T’£mes, Gloucester

Humane week, which should last ﬁfty-
two, is one The News delights to call to the
attention of everyone. It is one which may
well have the attention of instructors of
youth. ——News, Gardner

Animals, particularly pets, are not unlike
humane beings in respect to treatment. . . .
If animals could speak for themselves, they
would make it uncomfortable for those who
abuse them. ———Item, Wakeﬁeld

One would think that this week above all
weeks people would have a little extra con—
sideration for animals . . . only we would do
well not to crowd all our kindness into one
week. —Star,r Fairhaven

In New Hampshire

In Portsmouth, N. H., the humane inter-
ests combined to present a special Be Kind
to Animals show at the Olympia Theater
on Saturday morning. Pictures shown in-
cluded “Wanted—a Master,” and “The
Puppy’s Christmas.”

The Animal Rescue League of Manches—
ter, N. H., gave out 250 humane posters
through the public and parochial schools.
At the city library there was a special dis—
play of books relating to animals. Open
house was observed at the League’s head—
quarters in Grasmere.

It is a good time for press, pulpit, the
schools, all in contact with the public either
in groups or individually, to take thought
to this important phase of our everyday life
that the future may see less of these un‘
wonted things than has the past.

—Telegraph, Nashua, N. H.

_.‘~,u_‘_. . -

 

 

 

 

 

 




OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 116

African Elephants at Home

J. B. MORSE

AFRICAN ELEPHANTS “AT HOME”

considered to be the most intelligent

of the wild animals of that country.

In studying their habits of life I have found

out many interesting things that, it seems

to me, make them act almost as human
beings do. ‘

A herd of elephants living together do

not have a regular spot to call home for

F H ‘HE great gray African elephants are

they travel many miles from season to

season. The African elephants, which are
so much bigger than their brother the In-
dian elephant that we see in circuses, natur—
ally require a great deal of water in which
to bathe and drink. So, when they have
used up all the water in the vicinity in
which they are then living, they start on
a journey in search of a fresh supply.
That journey is called an elephant migra-
tion. It is a spectacular sight to see. The
huge pachyderms travel in mass formation,
stretching like an army for a great distance.
The mothers walk on the outside of the line,
herding their young in the middle to pro—
tect them. The youngsters frolic and play,
milling around so that the line often is
stopped to straighten them out.

At each end of the journey the animals
establish living quarters only by each choos-
ing a favorite set of trees under which to
rest during the heat of the equator’s sun
at midday. Sometimes, but not often, they
lie down. Mostly they stand in the shade
of the tree. resting their heavy tusks on a
crotched limb. I have often seen {such

 

crotches worn thin by con—
stant use. The size of the
tusk can quite well be told by
the size of the well-worn
groove.

When a baby elephant is
about to be born the mother
leaves the thick forest and
goes out into the open plain.
While the little one is being
born, other mother elephants
stand close about the new
mother. Father elephants
stand off at a distance to
guard her against disturb-
ance.

These young baby ele-
phants grow to be very play-
ful and mischievous. Often
I have seen a mother tap her
child smartly with her trunk
to make it behave.

There is always a leader in
an elephant group and he is
the strongest of the bulls.
When the herd moves from
place to place, however, he
does not go in front of the
line of march but follows in
the rear. He places other
strong bulls at the outside of
the line and it seems as if
he really gave directions as
to what they were to do, for,
if he makes a sound they all
look to him as if to ask what
to do.

The elephants feed as they
go along and they make a
funny rumbling sound in
their stomachs which to one who is watching
them means that they are not afraid and
are quietly eating and happy. The big
bull leader is ever on the alert, waving his
trunk high in the air, back and forth, back
and forth from side to side, to catch any
scent in the wind that might mean danger.
For while the elephants sight is very weak,
the sense of smell is very strong. A slight
suspicion that all is not well will cause him
to ﬂap his ears and perhaps squeal softly.
Real danger in the wind makes him fairly
scream and trumpet loudly and with that
the whole herd stampedes, mothers looking
frantically for their children and the bull
guards shoo them into a line. Away they
go, pounding the earth so that it shakes
and trembles with their weight.

Within the herd there is jealousy of the
leader just as there is jealousy among
people in a community. The young bulls
grow up and want the job and they con-
stantly ﬁght among themselves to prove
their strength, trying to become clever
enough to ﬁght the leader. Finally, a very
strong one will attack the leader and if
he is not strong enough to overcome the
younger one he is beaten and the young
one takes his place. When the leader does
meet his match and is completely van-
quished in battle he must leave the herd for
he is no longer young and hardy enough
to hold his place. From then on he will
wander alone in the jungle. It has often
been noted that when an old bull does leave,

Aug. 1937

Sport!
IRENE ASHTON TURNBULL

In autumn when frosts turn the maples
red,
And the Indian summer sun ride-s high,
The small woods—folk all scurry away
For the Midvale Hunt comes galloping
‘ by!

First, the sound of the horn in the distance
far!
The music of hounds as they scent their
prey!
Then the rhythm of hoofs ringing loud and
clear,
For they’re hunting hard and fast today!

The poor little fox dashes, doubles and hides
In a place he believes secure from the
pack!
They fly on past, but twenty-odd dogs
Can’t miss him! Hark! They are coming
back!

A small huddled heap of fun on the
ground—
A brush displayed by the winner gay—
The grass stained red as the maples flame—
It was quite a successful hunt today.

 

a younger one accompanies him, staying
with his father to guard him in his failing
eyesight and sense of smell, until the older
one dies or is killed. I have seen this hap-
pen, and have heard others in Africa say
that it is not unusual at all.

A most interesting example of human
feeling is shown when an elephant is killed
by either a native or white hunter. When
the wounded elephant falls to the ground,
other elephants will rush to his rescue. I
have seen them gather on both sides of him
and by thrusting their tusks beneath his
body, help him to his feet. Then, pushing
and supporting him in this fashion, they
hurry him away as fast as they can to
safety. They will push down trees and
bushes in his path to make his escape easier.
If he seems to falter they will almost carry
him by force.

At waterholes they will let him rest and
they will ﬁll their capacious trunks with
water and spray it over him to refresh and
cure his wounds. Often elephants have in
that way had time to recover their strength
so they could walk to where they might in
safety get well again.

Because of their keen sense of smell, it
is diﬂicult to get near enough to take good
elephant pictures. They are so often in
the dense bush where the light is poor, too.
But one can, however, by staying carefully
up wind and climbing into a tree, watch a
herd as it lives at home in the African
jungles.

 

The Jack London Club continues to
draw friends to its support. Over
685,000 persons have now responded.
It is a great movement, whose goal is
the prevention of cruelty to perform-
ing animals. Join the Club and reg-
ister your disapproval of this form of
cruelty.

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

Sept. 1937

1 I
“R!" PM.
air/\E’l.

.4

II; “M iii» l“ '
saws!” i::#%i'h
gglhsisviﬁ?‘igg§a

 

Founded by Geo. T. Angell. Incorporated March, 1868

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds
JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First
Boston Corporation
CHARLES G. BANCROET, Vice-President, United Shoe
Machinery Corporation
PHILIP STOCKTON, President, First National Bank of
Boston

Prosecuting Ofﬁcers in Boston
Telephone (Complaints,Ambulances) Longwood 6100
L. WILLARD WALKER, Chief Officer
HARRY L. ALLEN DAVID A. BOLTON
HARVEY R. FULLER HOWARD WILLAND

County Prosecuting Ofﬁcers
HERMAN N. DEAN, Boston
Middlesex, Norfolk and Plymouth
FRED T. VICKERS, Lynn Eastern Essex
WILLIAM W. HASWELL, Methuen Western Essex
FRED F. HALL, Springfield
Hampden, Hampshire and ' Franklin
ROBERT L. DYSON, Worcester Worcester
CHARLES E. BROWN, Attleboro Bristol
HAROLD G. ANDREWS, Hyannis
Barnstable, Dukes and Nantucket
T. KING HASWELL, Pittsfield Berkshire

Rest Farm for Horses and Small Animal Shelter,
Methuen

W. W. HASWELL, Superintendent

Taunton Branch of Mass. 5. P- C. A.—MRS.
HOWARD F. WOODWARD, Pres.; MRS. THOS. H. CAS-
WELL, Sec.

Northampton Branch of the Mass. S. P. C. A.——
MRS. EDITH WASHBURN CLARKE, Pres.; MRS. MAUDE
WEIR, Treas.

Women’s Auxiliary of the Mass. S. P. C. A., 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston—MRS. EDITH WASHBURN
CLARKE, Pres.; MRS. HARRY COLE, Treas.; MRS.
AGNES P. FISHER, Ch. Work Com. First Tuesday.

Springﬁeld Branch Auxiliary—MRS. DONALD C.
KIBBE, Pres.; MRS. HERBERT F. PAYNE, Treas. Second
Thursday.

Winchester Branch Auxiliary—MRS. RICHARD S.
TAYLOR, Pres.; MISS BESSIE SMALL, Treas. Second
Thursday.

Fitchburg Branch, Am. Humane Education Soc.—
MR. FRANCIS KIELTY, Pres.; BRADLEY W. LEONARD,
Treas.

MONTHLY REPORT OF SOCIETY
AND BRANCHES

Miles traveled by humane ofﬁcers. . 16,992
Cases investigated ............... 725
Animals examined ............... 4,585
Animals placed in homes ......... 157
Lost animals restored to owners. . . 68
Number of prosecutions .......... 5
Number of convictions ............ 5
Horses taken from work ........... 21
Horses humanely put to sleep. . . . 67

Small animals humanely put to sleep 1,958
Stock-yards and Abattoirs

Animals inspected ................ 54,013
Cattle, swine and sheep humanely
put to sleep .................... 13

The Massachusetts S. P. C. A. has been
remembered in the wills of Mary C. Holman
of Hopkinton, Martha S. Hart of Boston,
and Moses B. Kaven, Boston.

August 10, 1937.

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

ANGELL MEMORIAL ANIMAL
HOSPITAL

and Dispensary for Animals
184 Longwood Avenue Telephone, Longwood 6100

Veterinarians

. DAILEY, V.M.D., Chief of Staff

. SCHNEIDER, V.M.D., Asst. Chief

. SCHROEDER, D.V.M.

. SCHNELLE, v.M.D.

. MUNSON, V.M.D.

. BLAKELY, v.M.D.

HARRY L. ALLEN, Superintendent

PEP???
bowdmn

Springfield Branch

Telephone 4-7355
53-57 Bliss Street, Springﬁeld, Mass.

Veterinarians
. EVANS, v.M.D.
. SMEAD, D.V.M.

FE“
t‘FU

 

 

 

HOSPITAL REPORT FOR JULY
Including Springﬁeld Branch

Hospital Dispensary
Cases entered 967 Cases 2,613
Dogs 739 Dogs 2,205
Cats 214 Cats 344
Birds 8 Birds 49
Horses 3 Goats 4
Goats 3 Horses 3

Rabbits 2
Lambs 2
Monkeys 2
Skunk 1
Operations 881 Squirrel 1

Hospital cases since opening, Mar.

1, 1915 ....................... 151,921
Dispensary cases ................ 372,584
Total ............ 524,505

The Month in the Springﬁeld Branch
Cases entered in Hospital .......... 152
Cases entered in Dispensary ........ 511
Operations ........................ 179

Amrita Island Conference

The second annual Humane Summer Con-
ference, held at Amrita Island, Cataumet,
Mass, under the auspices of the Animal
Rescue League of Boston, closed a very suc-
cessful four weeks’ program on August 14.
There were two sessions, one in July and
one in August. President Robert F. Sellar
brought to this meeting prominent humane
workers from cities in New York, Pennsyl—
vania, Michigan and Iowa, as well as from
the New England States, who presented ad-
dresses upon many vital topics in animal
protection work. A special feature was the
presence of a group of teachers, led by Miss
Julia E. Dickson, professor of elementary
education in Teachers’ College, Boston, who
showed unusual interest in the subjects pre-
sented, especially those relating to humane
education. Among the speakers were Mr.
Winthrop Packard, director of the Massa-
chusetts S. P. C. A., Mr. Wm. F. H. Wentzel,
ﬁeld representative, and Guy Richardson,
secretary, of the American Humane Edu-
cation Society, Boston. The American Hu-
man Association Of Albany and the Ameri—
can S. P. C. A. Of New York City were
represented by various executives through-
out the sessions. Altogether more than 100
persons attended the Conference. At one
time the liberal accommodations of the vari-
ous houses on the Island were taxed to
their utmost to house the delegates.

 

Page 135

Convention in Milwaukee

Prominent Humanitarians from All Parts
of Country Meet October 4-7

LANS for the annual convention of the

American Humane Association, to be
held at the New Pfister Hotel, Milwaukee,
Wisconsin, from Monday, October 4, to
Thursday, October 7, include a general ses-
sion Monday forenoon, at which reports
will be given and a special tribute paid to
the memory of the late secretary of the
Association, N. J. Walker.

Addresses relating to children’s work will
occupy the sessions Monday afternoon and
Tuesday forenoon. On Tuesday afternoon
there will be a sight-seeing trip for the dele—
gates. Tuesday evening the annual ban-
quet will be held, with addresses by Judge
August C. Braun of the Milwaukee Chil-
dren’s Court and by Rev. Preston Bradley,
of Chicago, who will speak on “Conserva—
tion of Child Life.”

Matters relating to animals will be dis-
cussed at all day and evening sessions Wed-
nesday, and all day Thursday. Wednesday
afternoon there will be an A. B. C. forum
with Mrs. C. M. Kindel, Jr., of Grand
Rapids, Mich., as chairman. Topics Wed-
nesday forenoon include, “Community Meet-
ings for Rural Life,” by George F. Comings,
state humane agent of Wisconsin; “The
Red Star in Action,” Eric H. Hansen, man-
ager, American Humane Association; and
“Economic and Humane Relationships in
Transporting Livestock,” by Ernest G. Reed
of Omaha, Nebr. Humane Education will
be the subject for Wednesday evening, with
addresses by Miss Lillian Ellis, Dodgeville,
Wis.; Eﬁie E. Smith, San Francisco, Cal.;
and Mrs. W. F. Krahl of Chicago, 111.

On Thursday forenoon Dr. Francis H.
Rowley, president of the Massachusetts S.
P. C. A. and the American Humane Edu—
cation Society, Boston, will speak on “The
Function of the Animal Clinic and Hospi-
tal;” H. L. Leﬂingwell, superintendent of
the Animal Protective League, Cleveland,
0., will describe “Public Small Animal Con—
tracts with Humane Society Methods;” and
Joseph S. FOX of the Humane Society, San
Diego, Ca1., will discuss “The PhllOSOphy of
the Animal Shelter.” In the afternoon, at
the closing session, Larry Hauts, secretary
of the Isaak Walton League, Mllwaukee,
will answer the question, “What about the
Predators?” .

This will be the ﬁrst national humane
convention to be held in Wisconsin, and be-
cause Of the marked humane interest In
that state an unusually large attendance 1s

predicted.

The Massachusetts S. P. C. A. recently
prosecuted a hit-and—run driver of a car
who had injured a dog. He was .found
guilty by the court, and after he pald $10
as costs, his license was revoked and the
case ﬁled.

Endowed stalls and kennels are needed
in the Angell Memorial Animal Hos-
pital. Payments of thirty-ﬁve dollars
for a kennel or seventy-ﬁve dollars for
a stall will insure a suitable marker
inscribed with donor’s name. Terms of
permanent endowment of free stalls and
kennels will be given upon application.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 92

Here and There in
Massachusetts
(Continued from page 86)

NORWOOD—In the Morrill Memorial
Library special attention was given in the
children’s and the young adults’ rooms to
the display of outstanding animal stories.
Brief reviews of some of these books ap-
pear in the N orwood Messenger.

SALEM—The News reported that Donald
Davis, eight years old, of Mill River, cele-
brates Be Kind to Animals Week every
week, and that an inventory of his col-
lection might read:

“One collie, slightly used, name, ‘Pa1;’ one
cock pheasant, good condition; one cat,
named ‘Pluto;’ two large white rats, ‘Mick-
ey’ and ‘Donald;’ one large black and white
rat, called ‘Minnie,’ and eight small rats
named (Donald had help on these) ‘Vercin-
geto Rix,’ ‘Alcibiades,’ ‘Cleopatra,’ ‘Delilah,’
‘Hannibal,’ ‘Jupiter,’ ‘Clytemnestra,’ ‘Mus-
solini.’

“Donald insists the collie gets along with
the cat; the cat gets along with the rats
and the rats with the pheasant. Donald
gets along with all of them.”

SPRINGFIELD—The celebration was in
charge of the Branch Auxiliary of the
Massachusetts S. P. C. A. Broadcasts were
presented over station WMAS on Monday
and Friday forenoons and on Thursday
evening, by Mrs. Donald C. Kibbe, president,
and Mrs. George S. Sabin, member of the
Auxiliary. Generous support was given by
the daily newspapers. A large number of

the national posters were distributed
throughout the city.

WEYMOUTH—Flora Haviland McGrath,
director of courses of study in the public
schools, writes: “Under general work in our
new course of study for the development of
favorable attitudes and right habits, we
have included an annual observance of Hu-
mane Day, I feel that the ideas set forth
in your pamphlets are excellent for class—
room use in inculcating ideas of kindness.”

WINCHESTER—The Branch Auxiliary
of the Massachusetts S. P. C. A. distributed
many of the national posters, sent special
Humane Sunday literature to the ministers,
and co-operated fully in observing the Week.
Slides from the Society were used at special
exercises in the Wyman School. The Rev.
Howard J. Chidley of the First Congrega-
tional Church stressed kindness to animals

in his regular children’s sermon on Humane
Sunday.

VVORCESTER—Radio talks over station
W TAG and in the various schools were

presented under the direction of Mrs. Char-
les F. Darling,
S. P. C. A.

Dogs, cats and other pets often fail to
get kind treatment. If boys and girls are
allowed the pleasure of possession of such
animals, they should be taught to look after
the wants of these speechless creatures.

—News, Salem, Mass.

OUR DUMB

president of the local—

 

In Washington, D. C.

S usual, the Animal Protective Associa-

tion, headed by Miss Virginia W. Sar-
gent, scored a ﬁne record for accomplishment
in bringing Humane Sunday and Be Kind to
Animals Week to the attention of the in-
habitants of the nation’s capital. Street
cars carried signs; several hundred sets of
humane literature were distributed, especi-
ally in schools; the Board of Education
accepted 400 sets of the ﬁve leaﬂets pre-
pared by Miss Frances E. Clarke for class-
room use in the fourth and ﬁfth grades;
and the press and radio carried announce—
ments appropriate to the Week. A feature
of Humane Sunday was the presentation
by Miss Sargent, in memory of her father
and mother, of a bird-bath for the lawn
of the Fourth Presbyterian Church.

Enthusiasm in Chicago

Radio addresses over Chicago stations
included one on “The Relation of Kindness
to Animals to Citizenship,” by Judge J. M.
Braude of the Chicago Boys’ Court, and
one on “Kindness Necessary for Conserva-
tion,” by Joseph A. Duner, president of
the Illinois Izaak Walton League. One
station broadcast several brief announce-
ments of the Week, daily, during the cele-
bration. Stories and articles relating to
animals were featured in the press, especi-
ally by Donald Culross Peattie in the Daily
News. Many school programs were given,
including lectures by Mrs. Jennie R.
Toomim, ﬁeld worker of the American
Humane Education Society. In connection
with her work, the Illinois Humane Society
offered $90 in prizes for the best stories,
and two $5 prizes for the best playlets,
written by pupils in sixth, seventh and
eighth grades of the Chicago public schools.
The prize playlets and the winning story
will be broadcast over a local station.

It seems too bad that a special week has
to be named for such an endeavor. Being
kind to animals is no more a one-week pro-
gram than would be a campaign for the
prevention of cruelty to human beings.

——News, Milford, Mass.

ANIMALS

June, 1937

A Virginia Incident

EV. J. W. LEMON, ﬁeld worker of the

American Humane Education Society in
colored schools of rural Virginia, reports:
“Humane Week was our best one so far.
Many schools were reached and sermons
were preached in the churches. Teachers
and pupils had inspiring programs.

“At one of the schools, just as I was com-
ing from one of the rooms at the corner of
the building, some of the little boys were
playing marbles. I heard one of the boys
say, “Let me show you how I can kill him.”
The other boy said, “No, don’t do that, he
wants to live as well as we do.” I went to
see what they were talking about. I saw
that a spider had fallen into their ring.
They did not kill him. I thought much
about that plea, “Don’t kill him. He wants
to live as well as we do.” It was only a
spider; but in the minds of those boys was
the thought of kindness toward all living
creatures. I was happy to see it.”

In South Carolina

Largely through the efforts of Seymour
Carroll, of Columbia, ﬁeld worker of the
American Humane Education Society, who
sent out releases to 75 daily and weekly
newspapers in. various states, South Caro-
lina participated enthusiastically in the
Week’s celebration. Radio programs were
given in Columbia, Greenville, and Charles-
ton. In addition to his work in South
Carolina Mr. Carroll visited JaCksonville,
Florida, and Savannah, Georgia, his tour
being marked by speaking engagements in
various colleges and other institutions. The
Aiken (South Carolina) County S. P. C.
A., under the direction of its president,
Mrs. Fitch Gilbert, presented an excellent
program over station WIS, Columbia, on
Friday.

Proclamation in Georgia

Governor E. D. Rivers of Georgia issued
a proclamation, in behalf of Be Kind to
Animals Week, concluding with the “hope
that its observance will be general through-
out the state and implant further lessons
of thoughtfulness in behalf of our helpless
friends.” Under the dire‘ction of Mrs.
Katherine Weathersbee, ﬁeld worker of the
American Humane Education Society, radio
programs were given daily from Atlanta,
a school poster contest was conducted, and
special programs given in many schools.
The week’s celebration was considered to be
the best that Georgia ever has had.

Mayor Issues Proclamation

Mayor A. C. Hatch of DeLand, Florida,
issued a brief but effective proclamation,
closing with these words: “I therefore take
pleasure in commending to the citizens of
DeLand ‘National Be Kind to Animals
Week,’ April 12-17, and urge that during
this time they give special consideration to
all animals.” At Daytona Beach 200 post-
ers were placed in schools, hotels and public
buildings. At the DeLand colored school
humane programs of recitations, plays, etc.,
were put on by the pupils, Monday and
Wednesday.

 

 

 

 




 

 

Sept. 1937

No Better Friend

A better friend I’ll never ﬁnd

07' one that’s half as true and kind
As my old dog, that day by day
Grows fonder of me every way.

Unselfish to the ’nth degree,

In every way he proves to be,

And when my heart with grief is torn,
In sympathy he, too, will mourn.

If joy perchance abides with me,
Somehow, he feels it instantly,
And by some antic will express
His knowledge of my happiness.

But sometimes, when I meet his eyes
And watch them ﬁll with glad surprise,
I cannot help but feel that he

Beholds the man I ought to be.

JOHN HUMBLE WHITE

Often Thirsty, Not Mad

From the Malden, (Mass.) News

The unusually warm days this summer
are a trial to many of us who prefer cooler
weather, but while we may at least lessen
our own discomfort with iced tea, electric
fans, or bathing, our pets and domestic
animals, who Suffer from the heat as much
as we, must depend upon us entirely for
their relief. In ’watching the approaching
extinction of the horse as a beast of burden,
we are always happy to realize that these
faithful animals, except in increasingly few
instances, no longer have to labor under
heavy loads in the hot sun, possibly without
enough water. Most communities long ago
provided watering troughs for horses, but
many of these have fallen into disuse
through the general disappearance of the
working horse. The Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals,
however, has done noble work along these
lines for such horses as still appear on the
streets.

The plight of the thirsty dog has to
our mind, never been so well expressed
as in the famous short story “The Bar
Sinister,” in which a dog is supposed to
write his very human biography. The phil-
osophy of this literate canine was reason-
able enough. People ﬂee from or shoot at
dogs who froth at the mouth on hot summer
days, when all the dogs want is a drink of
water to cool them off. There is a strong
element of pity in this dog-author’s wistful
observation, “Water must be very valuable,
when humans always keep it locked up so
that we dogs can’t get at it.” The man who
is kind to animals is usually kind to his
fellow-men, and hence is a good citizen.
When we swelter under the heat these days,
let us not forget our pets.

A Notice

At a recent meeting of the Washington
Humane Education Society, Mr. Charles

Edward Russell, eminent journalist and lec—
turer, delivered an address on “The Hu-
mane Society.” This address was published
in the Congressional Record, copies of which
may be obtained by mailing a request to
Mr. James P. Briggs, 622 C St., N. E.,
Washington, D. C.

 

the street is a synagogue.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

“Sandy”

EDEN P. WHITE

BECAME conscious of the fact that I

was being followed by the time I had
walked a block from the bus on my way
home. Each time I turned to glance behind
me, there he was, a quizzical expression on
his funny little face, his short tail wriggling
in friendly anticipation, a picture of canine
appeaL

I walked on, deliberately ignoring his ob-
vious overtures to attract me. I did not
wish to be accused of enticing another’s pet
from his ﬁreside. At the end of the block I
found he was still at my heels, his face now
intent with ﬁxed purpose. Turning about,
I scrutinized him closely and found no
identifying tag or even a collar about his
neck. Thin and scrawny, he bore my gaze
with gallant fortitude, faith and hope beam—
ing in his brown eyes. Moved by a sudden
compassion, I reached down and patted his
head.

As if I had touched a trigger spring, he
threw himself upon me with wild contor-
tions of joy and pledged himself to me for-
ever. So it was, that a small wisp of mixed
breeds, a homeless stray, became my dog
and I named him “Sandy.”

A few days of food and contentment soon
ﬁlled the hollows of Sandy’s body. He tried
in many ways to show his gratitude for his
adoption. He would roll in joy when I was
with him and abase himself dejectedly when
I scolded him for some infraction of rules.

Sandy must have had in his conglomerate
make-up the blood of some moral crusader,
for whenever the church bells rang, he
would emit sharp, staccato barks. Then his
wise little eyes would implore me, as if
asking: '

“Go to church, you sinner, don’t you hear
the church bells ringing?”

In the neighborhood in which I live are
several churches. One is a Methodist, an-
other a Christian Science and farther down
It would not be
difﬁcult to ﬁnd the place of worship best
suited to one’s desires of faith. But Sunday
invites the laggard to lie abed, to drowse

Page 141

over the newspapers, to indulge one’s tran-
sient tastes. But to Sandy, life means more
than indolence. He quivers with action and
animation, if not with the repressed desire
to serve his Creator.

It was on a bright Sunday morning with
the birds singing an accompaniment to the
church bells, that Sandy tried his best to
arouse me to my duty. Finally he seemed
to realize his defeat and after eyeing me
with an expression of sadness, he walked
away across the lawn. There was an almost
ludicrous dignity in his leaving, as if, all at
once, he gave me up as hopeless and his
efforts in my behalf, vain. Affectionately, I
watched him go, then turned to my papers
and the luxury of golden sunshine upon my
back.

It was perhaps an hour later that I looked
up to see Sandy coming across the street
toward me. Every motion of his body ex-
pressed happiness. As he drew close, I saw
he carried something in his clenched jaws,
something he was bringing to me as a gift.
A moment later he dropped it into my lap
and, astonished, I saw it was a Bible.

Dear little Sandy! I haven’t the heart to
tell him that I cannot read a word of it. His
care and forethought for my immortal soul
have been in vain, much to my regret. The
Bible he brought me is printed entirely in
Hebrew.

Dog Races
GIRALDA FORBES

The dog was made to be a friend of man,
But in this world where money reigns
supreme,

’And all things are subordinate to it,

We use" the dog for purposes as mean
As they are base and hurtful to ourselves.

For in this country where all men are free,
And all have equal rights before the law,
The dog is sold to slavery for the gain

That comes from race tracks and the gam-

bler’s den.
Our laws do not exempt them from this
shame.

The dog was nobly made for noble uses,
Not for the race track, and its gross abuses.

 

 

WOULDN’T YOU LIKE TO OWN ME?

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Sept 1937

OUR’DUMB

 

The Fondouk Addition

This is a photograph showing the larger
part, but not all, of the new land, at the
left of the Fondouk, occupation of which
will be January 1, 1938. This new plot is
5,382 square feet larger than the plot pur-
chased in 1929, on which the Fondouk is
built.

The original plot cost $2,722 in 1929, the
new addition cost us $1,500 in 1937. Special
gifts made it possible for us to purchase
this addition adjoining the Fondouk and
into which many of the convalescing ani-
mals may be turned for exercise and
pasture.

 

Wild Parents’ Affection

DORIS M. BALTES

N remote mountain districts and swamp-

lands of the United States are still to
be found a few representatives of that al-
most vanquished American, the wild turkey,
and in no other bird do we ﬁnd a ﬁner
example of mother love and sacriﬁce than
in the wild turkey mother at nesting time.
Wild turkeys, unlike our tame ones, are
strong-winged, far-ﬂying birds, and at night
are in the habit of roosting in the lower
branches of tall trees where they are safe
from ground animals. All the year both
males and females lift their strong wings
at the approach of darkness and ﬂy into
their tree havens to spend the night—until
nesting time. Then the Wild turkey mothers
make their nests on the ground where they
can cover the eggs, and never leave them
night or day, except for furtive foragings
nearby, until the young turkeys have
hatched and grown strong enough to ﬂy
into the trees with their mothers. One
needs little imagination to understand what
sacriﬁce of safety this must mean to the
mother turkeys.

The wild quail mother has been observed
calling her scattered brood together at the
end of the day in the hunting season, and,
as one by one appeared from the thickets in
answer to her calls, greeting them with
obvious aﬂ’ection. Such a scene makes one
wonder if there is not grief in the wild
mother heart for the missing little quail
that have not survived the day’s havoc.

The wild rabbit mother diverts a prowl-
ing enemy from her nest of young by lead-
ing him off on her own trail, pausing as she

goes to look back and see that he follows
her; then circling until she loses him and
can get back to her nest.

Several types of mother birds feign a
broken wing, trailing it along on the ground
in the most exaggerated manner when an
enemy lurks near the nestlings. This high
strategy works, too, for invariably the nest
disturber will follow, believing the mother
bird easy prey.

In the case of the fox there is sacriﬁce
evidenced not only by the mother fox but
by the father. Many a father fox has met
his death on a winding trail that led his
enemy in another direction from the den
of little ones. The mother fox stays in or
near the den and teaches the cubs what
young foxes should know; the father acts
as a scout for danger and as food provider.

Father birds as a rule ﬁght as viciously
as do the mothers anything that seeks to
disturb the nest, though a few types show
indifference. The male eagle and the male
owl will ﬁght to the death to protect their
nests, and often their mates ﬁght with them

till they have beaten off the intruder or
been vanquished.

The domesticated mother cow that grazes
so peaceably in the pasture ail day and
comes meekly at the call of milking time
reverts back to her wild ancestry and shows
ﬁght if anything annoys her calf.

Few female. animals but do show this
strong parental affection, and several male
types demonstrate it in lesser degree. Of
all kindred instincts between man and ani-
mal this seems to be the closest link. Noth-
ing inspires our sympathy and liking for

animals so much as evidence of love and

protection for the young. '

AN I M AIL S

Page. 11,0

To Every Farmer
EVELYN BOWEN

Please put a few “NO HUNTING” "signs
In view around your farm;

Protect your furred and feathered friends,
Both wild and tame, from harm.

'TheliabbhﬁIIthftShoot

RICHARD V. HATFIELD

GOOD many years ago, when I was a

college instructor, I had to stop teach-
ing in the middle of the year as a result of
overwork. To get back into trim I spent
several midwinter weeks in a camp in the
heart of the Maine woods. One morning I
went out alone snowshoeinO‘. I took with
me a small revolver; for, although I was
not a hunter, it occurred to me that I might
see something to ﬁre at.

It was a clear cold beautiful forenoon
among the evergreens. The sun was bright,
the sky blue, the snow deep and dazzling
white. No breeze was stirring to break the
wintry stillness. The only sound was the
soft falling of little feathery masses of
snow from the spruce boughs, loosened by
the February sun.

I came upon and followed tracks made by
a little animal; and suddenly I saw him,
close at hand. He was a white rabbit. I
expected to see him leap away; but instead
he stopped and sat upon his haunches, his
forepaws hanging down. He showed no
fear; he appeared to be simply curious.
Probably, up in that remote wilderness, he
had never seen a man before; certainly he
had never been hunted. When I came up
close to him, he did not move; he simply
sat there, looking at me.

I took out my pistol. He was not more
than ten feet off. Even though I was no
marksman, I could not miss him at so short
a distance. I lifted my weapon, took aim;
my ﬁnger was on the trigger. Still he sat
there, motionless.

Why should I shoot him? I couldn’t do
it. He was so innocent, so harmless, that
I should have been ashamed of myself to
take his life. It wouldn’t have been sport-
ing; it would have been cold-blooded mur-
der. I lowered my gun, and he went hop-
ping leisurely away, until he disappeared
among the spruces. Itwas the ﬁrst and
the last time I ever went out, prepared to
shoot anything.

I have never been able to see any fun or
sportsmanship in taking inoﬁensive animal
life. The killing of savage beasts, like the
wolf, the lion and the tiger, in the protec-
tion of one’s self or others, is of course
justiﬁable. In early days our ancestors
were often obliged to slay for the sake of
food. But that is a very different thing
from going into the forest for a holiday
with the deliberate idea of slaughtering
some harmless animal. I like the woods as
well as anybody, but I am glad to let every-
thing live that can live. Wild creatures
ﬁnd life hard enough anyway; why make
it harder for them?

The Hessian ﬂy receivedits common name
from the fact that it was introduced into
America in straw by the Hessian soldiers
during the Revolutionary War.

 

 

 




 

OUR DUMB

ANIMALS

 

 

 

 

    

\ | I
' . 1' ,1‘, \

I ”Hall. /; I \.‘I' Hi
,, \ \I \ \1,
\I-‘ .“~ I IQ). ?/ l l .

I ‘ ." y“lI \I'l.‘ 'I‘ “6% \\\'f I .
("£72 ‘1“,

I I ,

i all: [Kilngﬂl‘éu‘ .|

\l’ ,Il\|",'v\\l[.

"\'\':I:I—.\ I'\I

l\'
1 \ I l I I,\|\\H")I
h'l'h'll‘ “I' I .I ’1‘ ll

 

“Diddlybum” and “Kitty Spot”

(A true story)
SUSAN MYRICK

D IDDLYBUM” is a tiny gray squirrel, aged four weeks.
Life for him is just as gay and happy as it is for his
foster brother, “Kitty Spot,” who is also four weeks old. Both
of them play for long hours under the watchful eyes of Mam-
ma Cat, for squirrel and kitten have been nursed by the
same mother.

When Diddlybum was only about three days old, his moth-
er was killed. The little gray squirrel was cold and hungry.

 

“DIDDLYBUM” AND “KITTY SPOT”

He had not yet opened his eyes and he was too little to do
more than wriggle about in the nest, hunting for the soft
warm body of his mother.

Junior, who was thirteen, walked through the woods and
saw the nest. He climbed the tree so he could look in. He
would not hurt a baby squirrel.
one. There was no Mamma Squirrel and Junior wondered
who would feed the baby.

Later, Junior came again to look. Still no Mamma for the
baby squirrel. So Junior carefully picked up the baby and
carried him home.

Mamma Cat had a baby kitten and Junior thought she
might like another baby. He tried to give Diddlybum to
Mamma Cat but she did not like the strange—looking child.
So Junior fed the tiny fellow with warm milk from an eye
dropper. He fixed a hot water bottle and wrapped the baby
in an old piece of soft blanket.

Mamma Cat went for a walk. Junior put the baby squir-
rel into the box with Kitty Spot. When Mamma Cat came
back, she nosed at the little fellow a bit, then settled down.
Pretty soon both Kitty Spot and Diddlybum were being nur-
sed by the mother cat.

Diddlybum is now four weeks old and he and Kitty Spot
have a grand time playing together. Diddlybum climbs
trees and Kitty Spot tries to follow him. Junior cracks nuts
for Diddlybum and the squirrel sits up and holds the nut
in his front paws and nibbles at it with his sharp teeth. He

       

He only wanted to look at'

 

 
 

\‘ ’|

s \\ ~'§ [I - '

‘1, "“.-' ' \ ' ,I ‘ H .'r[ l
1.. I ,

\ 1 '1‘. Mi \\\h‘.l\(‘ lul‘ .l‘\I/l\'. I, \,£\V5}Ev\1$,/m,”

is too small to crack nuts for himself.

Diddlybum crawls into Junior’s pockets and climbs up the
legs of his suit. He nibbles at Junior’s fingers.

Junior does not try to keep Diddlybum in his house. When-
ever he wants to scamper away to the woods, Diddlybum may
go. But until he is big enough to take care of himself, Did-

(élybum plays with Kitty Spot and snuggles against Mamma
at.

General Nuisance

JULIAN B. DOGGETT, 8th Grade

General Nuisance is my little dog,
Call him “Gen” for short
Came to me the other day
Without even being bought
Just a little pup is he
Who loves to romp and play;
Mischief is his specialty,
He tries in every way.
After I come home at night
He is waiting at the door for me;
He chews up everything in sight
And wags his tail for glee.
A little tough, “that’s him,”
He’s as bad as bad can be,
But he and I are the best of friends
As you can plainly see.

all right;

Be Kind to Animals Week, April 11—17, offers an unusual op-
portunity to Boy and Girl Scouts to do a kind deed daily and at
the same time to observe the rule that a Scout is kind to animals.

Hidden Birds

ALFRED I. TOOKE

In each of the following sentences a well-known bird is

hidden. See if you can find them all.

1. It is cruel to catch a wild animal in netting.

2. We must post a card in all properties belonging to us,

forbidding hunting.

3. Also, we are asking ﬁshermen not to trespass.

4. There is the barn my uncle
Bob whitewashed last month.

5. My Uncle Fred started breed-
ing sheep—dogs there.

6. Some of them are very smart
in some ways.

7. His dogs nip everyone who
goes in unescorted.

8. I have known horses my Un-
cle Bob bred win great honors.

9. In the fall frost richly tints
these leaves red and gold.

10. The place is eery at night in
gales or thunderstorms.

11. Those hogs wallowing in the
mudholes are mine.

12. Two Scotch dancers and pip-
ers practice in our barn daily.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

NEMA

(TETRACHLORETHYLENE C. T.)

WORM CAPSULES

effectively remove
Large Roundworms
and Hookworms
Dependable, safe, easy-to-
give worm treatment.
Keep your dog worm free
and thrifty.

WRITE FOR

3 o 0 K L E T N O 6521

on thewams’gerrl

0’ “’0'” m N-58—E
d 365 ADDRESS DESK

breeds an a Animal Industry Dept,

PARKE, DAVIS & 00., Detroit, Mich.

Drug Stores Sell Parke- Davis Products

  
  
 
 
 
 
   
    
     
     
     

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

CRUELTY TO WILD ANIMALS

EXPOSED
Send for free sample of “Films,
Fakes and Facts” and “Do Wild Ani—
mals Prefer Captivity?” both reprint-
ed from the recent English book,
“Laugh, Clown, Laugh” by Helen
Trevelyan. Each, 4 pp., 50 cts. per
100. The American Humane Educa-
tion Society, 180 Longwood Ave.,
Boston.

 

 

 

 

. Clea/2717M Wall .

 

 

 

THIS SPACE
CONTRIBUTED

 

 

 

 

 

 

Since 1832

J. S. WATERMAN & SONS, Inc.
Hubertakers

BOSTON—BROOKLINE—CAMBRIDGE
City and Out-of-Town Service

 

 

 

 

Humane literature and Band of Mercy Supplies

For Sale at 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass, at these prices, pos-tpaid.

Titles in bold-face type are of books or booklets

Our Dumb Animals, 1936, bound volume $1.00
Colored Posters, 17 x 28 inches, with

attractive pictures and verses, s1x 1n

the set ............................. 1. 00
Be Kind to Animals Blotters, 61% x 3% $0. 50 per 100

About the Horse

Black Beauty (English), c10th,....$1.00 and 50 cts.
What Constitutes Cruelty, Francis H.

Rowley ........................ $0. 30 per 100
Humane Horse book, 32 pp., 5 cts. each or 5.00
The Horse—Treatment of Sores, etc. .. 0.60 “ “
Humane Education Leaflet, No. 5 .50 “ ‘:
The Horse’s Prayer .................. .30 “ ‘
The Bell of Atri, poem by Longfellow .. 50 “ “
The Care of Mules .................... .50 “ “

About the Dog

Beautiful Joe, new, illus., $1.50 ........ small, 50 cts.
Distemper in Dogs, Dr. Schneider ...... Free
Rabies vs. Running Fits, Dr. Schneider . Free

Eulogy on the Dog, by Vest, post-card $1. 00per 100
The Dog—«Its Care in Health and Disease .60
Feeding the Dog and the Cat, Dr.

Schneider ...................... 2.00 “ “
Humane Education Leaflets, Nos. 3 and 4 .50 “ “
What the Chained Dog Says .......... .50 “ “
The Story of Barry .................. .30 “ “
“Don” and His Boy Scout Friends, ‘

J. P. Lyons ........................ .50 “ ‘
Road Accidents to Dogs, 4 pp. ...... Free
Boots’ Day, play, for two boys and three

girls .................... 3 cts. each, ﬁve for 10 cts.

About the Bird
The Birds of God, 318 pp., illus .......... cloth, $0.45
Trial of the Birds, play, 3 cts. ea. ; 12 for

25 cts. . $2.00 per 100
Humane Education Leaflets, Nos. 1 and 2 .50 per 100
How the Birds Help the Farmer ...... .50 “
The Air-gun and the Birds ............ .50 “ “

About the Cat

The Cat—Its Care in Health and Disease $0. 60 per 100
Surplus Cats .50

........................

The Cat in Literature ................ .50 “ “
Do Not Leave Your Cat to Starve .50 “ “
Mollie Whitefoot’s Vacation ............ .50 “ “
“The Beggar Cat,” pom-card, 6 cts. doz. .50 “ “
Tommy’s Tavern, 4 pp. .............. 1.00 “ “
I Knew She was a Lady .............. .50 “ “
About Other Animals

Prince Rudolf’s Quest, Kenniston, 150

pp., special ....................... boards, 50 cts.
The Strike at Shane’s, cloth, 30 cts.... .paper, 7 cts.
For Pity’s Sake ....................... pap-er, 5 cts.
Michael Brother of Jerry, Jack London, cloth, 75 cts.
Heaven’s Rage, Helen Trevelyan ............ 25 cts.
Laugh, Clown, Laugh! Helen Trevelyan . .cl'oth, $1.00
The Great Cruelty, Dr. Rowley ........ Free

First Aid to Animals, Dr. Schneider, 8 pp.

$1.00 per 100
What is the Jack London Club? ........ .30
Foreword from “Michael Brother of Jerry” .30 “ “
Gripped in the Teeth of Steel, 2 pp. 1. 00 “ “
How to Kill Animals Humanely, 4 pp. .. 1.00 “ “
Humane Education Leaflet, No. 6, Animals .50 “ “

About Other Animals

Ways of Kindness ..................... .50 per 100
Humane Education Leaflet, No. 7, Farm
’ Animals ........................... .50 “ “
A Wise Fish .......................... .50 “ “
Humane Education

The Relation of the Home to Character

Formation, Dr. Francis H. Rowley” Free
The Humane Bulletin, for use in sch(r,ols

96 pp. ................. 12 cents each; ten for $1.00

Care and Kindness for Our Animal
Friends, 29 pp., paper covers, many
illus. ................ 15 cents each; seven for $1.00
Kindness Picture Book, 32 pp., 15 cts. , seven for $1.00
The Teacher’s Helper in Humane Edu-
cation, 32 p. ....................... each, 10 cts.
An Early Start to Kindness, Lucia F.
Gilbert, 48 pp. For ﬁrst and second
grades .......................... each, 10 cts.
Incidents About Animals as Told to
School Children by George T. Angel]
2 cts. each, $1. 00 per 100
Picture Lesson Cards, each 10 cts., set

of eight ........................... 35 cts.
“Be Kind to Animals” pennants ...... each, 25 cts.
The Humane Idea, Dr. Francis H.

Rowley ................ cloth, 35 cts. , paper, 15 cts.
Frlends and Helpers (selections for

school use). Sarah J. Eddy ........ cloth, 96 cts.

Lessons on Kindness to Animals $3.00 per 100
The B—K——T—A—Club, play, 3 cts. each; ten for 25¢.
Fred Changes His Mind, play, 5 cts. each; six for 25c.

“And a Little Child Shall Lead Them,”
play ................ 3 cts. each; ten for 25 cts.

Friends of Fur and Feather, play”
3 cts. each; ten for 25 cts.
.................. .$1150 per 100

1.00

Humane Exercises
Humane Sunday, 1937
Humane Education the Vital Need, Dr.

Rowley, short radio address, 2 cts. each; .75 “ “
Humane Education, What to Teach and

How to Teach It .50 “ “
Outlines of Study in Humane Education 1.50 “ “

Early Lessons in Kindness or Cruelty . . .50 “ “
A Talk with the Teacher ............ .50 “ “
Our Love for Animals, a short radio ad-

dress .................. 2 cts. each; 1 00 “ “
The Coming Education ................ “ “
A Festival of Tender Mercies .......... .50 “ “
Need of Humane Education Societies and

Methods of Forming Them .......... .50 “ “
A Great Prophecy, Dr. Rowley ........ Free

Band of Mercy

“Be Kind to Animals” Buttons, three

styles—Band of Mercy, Humane So-

ciety, or S. P. C. A ................... $1.00 per 100

Buttons—white star on blue ground with
gilt letters and border, one cent each 1.00 “ “

Badges, gold finish, large, 10 cts. small 5 cts.
“Band of Mer’cy' Pennant ............ 35 cts.
Songs of Happy Life, with music, S.

J. Eddy .......................... 50 cts.
Songs of Happy Life (56 pages, words

only) ............................. $3.00 per 100
Band of Mercy Membership Card ...... .50 “
How to Form Bands of Mercy .......... .50 “ “

Does it Pay, Story of one Band of Mercy .30 “ “
No order by mail for less than 5 cts.

Please enclose remittance with orders for less than $1

AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY, 180 Longwood Ave., Boston, Mass.

 

 

 

 

“IN BEHALF OF ANIMALS”

Film showing activities of Angell Animal Hospital of Massachusetts S. P. C. A., Boston,
scenes at Socrety’s Rest Farm for Horses, Methuen, and its Animal Shelters.

“THE BELL OF ATRI”

One-reel Film, illustrating Longfellow’s poem of the same title

30 minutes.

State Whether regular 35 mm.,

or 16 mm., is required
Terms on application to Secretary, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston

TWO reels,

 

 

 

 




U, S.Trade Mark, Registered \ I) I

1 ANGELL lN 1868.AND FOR FORW*ONE
E0 '

The Massachusetts Society "ll/l1
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

The American Humane Education Society

   
       
     

GLORY To
GOD,
PEACE on EARTH,
Kmouess, JUSTICE
AND Mencv 7'0“
EVERY LIVING
CREATURE.

The American Band of Mercy

  

I would not enter on my list of friends,

Though graced with polished manners and. ﬁne sense,
Yet wanting sensibility, the man

Who needlessly sets foot upon a worm.

——COWPER

 

Entered asosecond-class_matter, June 29, 1917, at the Post Ofﬁce at Norwood, Mass., under the Act of March 3, 1879
Acceptance for malllng at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 3, 1917, authorized, July 13, 1919

Boston Ofﬁce, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

 

Vol. 70

The Secretary of the Royal S. P. C. A.,
London, Capt. MacCunn, has called the
attention of the public to the fact that no
dock-tailed horses were seen in the Cor-
onation Procession. He also said: “If the
Royal Family can ride safely and comfort-
ably through cheering crowds behind un-
docked horses, surely the rest of us may be
content to do so.”

At a great Emergency Peace gathering
held in Philadelphia, April 22, some 7,000
people voted unanimously in favor of the
movement started by Representative Ludlow
of Indiana which, if approved by Congress,
would make the United States’ entrance
into a war, except in case of invasion,
depend upon a popular vote of the nation
and not upon the decision of a handful of
Congressmen.

Pictures in a recent issue of the Boston
Sunday Herald reproducing scenes from a
Costa Rica bullﬁght were a pitiful revela-
tion of the brutal depths of cruelty to
which a modern nation can sink in its
popular so-called sports. That small re-
public must care little for the respect of
other people.

In our June issue we wrote of three
faithful old mules, around twenty years
of age, who had served the Fort Valley
Normal and Industrial School at Fort Val-
ley, Georgia, for many, many years. They
are old and tired. The School has to have
new ones. A dealer has offered to take
them in trade for a younger pair. That
would mean sad days for their old age.
Friends have already sent $75 toward the
purchase of a new team greatly needed
just at the present time. The School is
still using the faithful old servants. Any
gift, however small, we shall gladly forward
in order to make it possible to purchase
the new team and give the old a rest for
their remaining days.

August, 1937

Animals and the Gambling
Racket

ANY of our readers will doubtless be
glad to learn that an organization
known as the New England Anti-Gambling
Association is seeking a repeal of the legis-
lation which has legalized gambling in
Massachusetts in connection with the racing
of horses and dogs. The amount of money
annually spent in this state at these race
tracks is almost beyond belief. For example,
during the year 1936 the horse racing in-
terests in the Commonwealth received at
the windows where the betting was done
$26,340,197. At the dog racing tracks the
amount was $22,232,622. One is perfectly
justiﬁed in saying that by far the greater
part of this money was from people who
could ill afford to lose a dollar in gambling.
That the managers of these tracks are
careful to see that none of our anti-cruelty
laws are violated we know from the con-
stant visits of our ofﬁcers to these places.
Especially do the ofﬁcials of the dog racing
tracks guard aganst any evidence of cruel
treatment of the dogs, because dog racing
has aroused a much more hostile opinion
against it than horse racing. And this in
no small measure because the former are
held at night and therefore attract thou-
sands of people, the majority of whom,
working by the day, can only visit these
places at night and whose money used in
gambling often means a family somewhere
suffering from lack of the necessities of
life. Merchants, wholesale and retail, large
business houses and small dealers, milk com-
panies and coal dealers, the butcher and the
baker and the gas and electric companies all
are feeling the evils of the gambling habit
in unpaid bills and the loss of trade.

As to the animals, we believe the dog rac-
ing involves much more actual suffering of
animals, because in the training of the dogs
live rabbits are so often used to be chased
by the dogs and whose fate is to be torn to
pieces when caught.

No. 8

The Governor of New York has vetoed
a bill that would make dog racing legal in
that state and has also given orders that
the present laws against betting should be
strictly enforced. This action, it is said,
spells the death knell of the so-called
“sport” of dog racing in the Empire State.

The California Legislature has passed a
bill legalizing dog racing, though it has been
carried on there in deﬁance of the law. The
San Francisco Society two years ago suc-
ceeded, as is stated in another column of
this magazine, in convicting several persons
for cruelty in connection with dog racing.
An interesting article on dog racing appears
on page 128 of this issue of our magazine.

The Famous St. Bernard
Dogs

ROBABLY the most of our readers have

seen the newspaper reports of the St.
Bernard dog who caused fatal injuries to
the little daughter of a Swiss doctor. After
that accident it was stated these dogs were
to be destroyed. The last Veriﬁed report
that comes to us is that 15,000 Swiss francs,
equivalent to about £750, has been offered
the prior of the Grand St. Bernard Hospice,
Switzerland, by the International Humani-
tarian Bureau at Geneva for the construc-
tion of spacious, suitable and heated ken-
nels in order to save these ﬁne dogs. In
this offer, Miss Lind-af—Hageby, president
of the International Humanitarian Bureau,
says, “Having lately visited the hospice and
having owned during twelve years a St.
Bernard of the pure breed from the Hos-
pice, a faithful and intelligent friend, I
beg you to accept my offer.”

It is believed that the conditions under
which the dogs live at the Hospice have
not been What they should be and that
provision of up—to-date kennels with ade-
quate ground for exercise will eliminate
the “ferocity” which has caused so much
trouble.

 

 

 

 




 

Dec. 1937
No Child Without a

C h ri stma 3
(See Frontis piece)

AST December there appeared in the

Buick Magazine, published by the Buick
Company of General Motors, the story
which follows in part—a story and picture
whose inﬂuence has meant happiness and a
Merry Christmas to multitudes of children
in this land whose Christmas otherwise
would have been much like that of the
broken-hearted child in the picture.

Almost every day of the year, old Hilda
bent over the laundry tubs in somebody’s
basement, scrubbing away with a right
good will. But on Christmas she rested.

All afternoon, she sat by the window in
her cozy ﬂat, idly watching the tumble-
down house across the street. Every now
and then, she would see a little girl push
back the curtains from a grimy window
and peer anxiously down the snow-covered
street.

Usually, Hilda concerned herself not at
all about her neighbors. For she was up
every morning before daylight and off to
her work in another part of the city. And
it was dark when she returned. But today
the anxious face of the little child made
her wonder.

By nightfall, she could stand it no longer.
Well mufﬂed up in her old shawl, she hur-
ried across the street.

In a cold and cheerless room, she found
the little girl still waiting—sobbing now—
sure that she had been a very, very naughty
little girl, because Santa Claus, who comes
to all good children, had passed her by.

Ordinarily, Hilda was a truthful per—
son. But now, in her efforts to comfort the
little girl, she stretched facts a little. Santa
Claus, she explained, is an extremely busy
old gentleman. Sometimes, it is simply im—
possible for him to reach everyone on
Christmas Day. To thousands of homes, he
comes on the day after Christmas.

Hope shone once more in the child’s face,
and Hilda returned to her home.

Next day, she was up even earlier than
usual, plodding through sleet and snow to
a home far across the city, a home where
she had done the laundry for many, many
years. Here, perhaps, there would be some—
thing to spare for the little girl, something
to make good Hilda’s hasty assurance that
sometimes Santa Claus comes on the day
after Christmas.

She was right. From that home, and
neighboring ones, there went out big bas—
kets of good things for the little girl——toys,
candy, dolls, fruit, warm clothes.

And there the story should end,——just a
good deed by an old woman on a Christmas
long ago. But, as a matter of fact, it is
here the story starts.

The home to which Hilda appealed for
help was the home of a man who drew
pictures for a newspaper. He never forgot
that bare, _cheerless room to which he helped
Hilda carry Christmas baskets. It saddened
him to think that there were thousands of
other little girls. who, every year, would
wait in vain for Santa Claus.

The following December, he drew a pic-
ture of that little girl. He showed her
sitting with head bowed in grief at a
rickety table from which hung a little
empty stocking. Beneath the picture, he

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Page 183

 

SCENE AT BIRD SANCTUARY OF CHARLES E. JONES, VANCOUVER,

BRITISH COLUMBIA

 

 

lettered a single word: “Forgotten.”

He brought it to the editor of the paper,
to be published on Christmas Day. But the
editor shook his head.

“We can’t use it,” he said. “It would
spoil Christmas for a lot of people.”

“I want to spoil Christmas for everybody
who has remembered only himself,” the
cartoonist replied. The editor saw the
point. The cartoon was published.

Hundreds of times, it has been reprinted
since then. It has been called “The cartoon
that opened a million hearts,” and it has
made famous the name of its creator, Tom
May, of Detroit.

From the heart stirrings that it caused,
there came into being many well-organized
movements dedicated to the one purpose:
“No child without a Christmas.”

Window-box for Birds

C. B. DARNELL

Do you want to make the birds think they
are getting their dinner out in the woods?
Here is the way to do it. If you have a
window-box and the ﬂowers are about gone,
go to the woods and get some tiny cedars,
pines and ﬁrs, also some brake ferns and
bunch grass and plant the window-box with
this. Water well and shade for a few days.

When the snow ﬂies keep the box well
supplied with food and you will be so en-
tertained by watching the diners I’m afraid
your work will suffer.

Millet, milo, very ﬁne cracked corn and
rice make good feed and are cheep. Suet
is also very needful for birds. If you have
an invalid in the home let his or her chair
be set by this window. You will obtain an
idea about these feathered creatures that is
both entertaining and educational, surpris—
ing too.

If you have not a window-box, then take
a broad plank, length of window, build up
sides enough to hold earth and this will
serve the purpose. Always throw some
feed on the window ledge for the braver
birds, the reds, the mockers and nuthatches,
and the jays.

Wild Bird Sanctuary

HARLES E. JONES of Vancouver,

British Columbia, after a lifetime of
experimenting, now has completed one of
the most remarkable wild bird sanctuaries
in the world. He and his three sons look
after it. They have successfully reared
ﬁfteen species of North American wild
birds and some twenty foreign ones. The
birds are fed by a special preparation in--
vented by Mr. Jones. In a great open sanc—
tuary hundreds of birds ﬁll the air. They
settle even upon strangers and upon friend—
ly dogs, as shown in the picture above.

The Mother

MARY VVILDER PEASE

There are so many shadows in this place,
Dear Joseph, tell me, can you see his face,
Are his eyes blue, what color is his hair,
What is that light that shines above him

there?

The sky was dark when we came to the
Inn,

We scarce could see the door they barred
to him.

He does not care, my little son, his sleep

Is not disturbed because the huddled sheep

Have numled him. He does not mind this
gloom

Where patient oxen crowd to give him
room.

The air seems heavy with the scent of
myrrh.

Is it the hay?
stir?

My mind
dream

That in the heavens rays of glory stream?

Look, in the east, a cloud is opening,

Is it a star? Do I hear voices sing?

You say that I am weary, and must rest,

Then lay my baby, Joseph, on my breast.

Hush, did you hear him

is filled witlv fancies, do I

In making your will, please remember the
Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, Boston.

 

 




 

Sept. 1937

   
    

7

g
m
2‘;

    
 
       
   

GLORY To\

GOD,
PEACE on EARTH,
z KINDNESS, JUSTICE o
\0 AND MERCY TO
EVERY LIVING
CREATURE.

  
  

Founded by Geo. T. Angell Incorporated 1889

For rates of membership in both of our Societies
see back cover. Checks should be made payable to
Treasurer.

Ofﬁcers of the American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY &. STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds
JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First
Boston Corporation
CHARLES G. BANCBOFT, Vice-President, United Shoe
Machinery Corporation
PHILIP STOCKTON, President, First National Bank of
Boston

Foreign Corresponding Representatives

George B. Duff ................... Australia
Luis Pareja Cornejo ............... Ecuador
Charles A. Williams .............. France
Leonard T. Hawksley ............. Italy
Mrs. Mary P. E. Nitobe .......... Japan
Mrs. Marie C. E. Houghton ....... Madeira
Dr. A. T. Ishkanian .............. Mexico
Joaquin Julia ..................... Spain
Mrs. Alice W. Manning ........... Turkey

Humane Press Bureau
Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke, Secretary

180 Longwood Ave., Boston

Field Workers of the Society

Mrs. Alice L. Park, Palo Alto, California
Mrs. Jennie R. Nichols, Tacoma, Washington
James D. Burton, Harriman, Tennessee
Mrs. Katherine Weathersbee, Atlanta, Georgia
Rev. F. Rivers Barnwell, Fort Worth, Texas
Miss Blanche Finley, Richmond, Virginia
Rev. John W. Lemon, Ark, Virginia

Miss Lucia F. Gilbert, Boston, Massachusetts
Mrs. Jennie R. Toomim, Chicago, Illinois
Seymour Carroll, Columbia, South Carolina
Rev. R. E. Griffith, De Land, Florida

Field Representative
Wm. F. H. Wentzel, M. S'., Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

Fie-l-d Lecturer in Massachusetts
Ella A. Maryott

SUMMARY OF ACTIVITIES OF FIELD
WORKERS FOR AUGUST, 1937

Number of addresses made, 120
Number of persons in audiences, 16,459

Invest in Annuity Bonds

HE Annuity Bonds of our two Soci-

eties are absolutely safe and yield a
return according to one’s age. They make
their appeal ordinarily to people over 40
years of age. Send the coupon for a free
folder which gives full details.

The Massachusetts S. P. C. A. (or)
The American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Ave., Boston, Mass.

Without obligation to me, please send me
the folder about your Annuity Bonds.

Name .................................
Age ..................................
Address ...............................

OUR DUMB ANIMALS
The Scottish S.P.C.A. and the

Humane Cause Have Lost
a Great Friend

HE death on July 24, of Mr. J. A. S.

Barrett, M.A., Peebles, marks the pass—
ing of one possessed of exceptional literary
gifts, and these found expression from time
to time in the columns of The Scotsman.
As a German scholar, Mr. Barrett was
recently declared by a German professor
of one of our Scottish universities to be
one of the greatest living authorities on
Goethe, and the same might well have been
said of him in regard to Carlyle, upon
whose letters and Journal he has for many
years carried on exhaustive research and
annotation. His contribution to the bibliog-
raphy of Carlyle is known all over the
world.

Among Mr. Barrett’s many and varied in—
terests, none was nearer his heart than hue
manitarian work in all its phases. He had
long taken an active part in the work of
the Royal Scottish Society for Prevention
of Cruelty to Children, and some ten years
ago he commenced to take a very keen
interest in animal protection. With his en—
thusiasm for the work of the League of
Nations, it was natural that this interest
should extend to animal protection societies
all over the world. The society with which
he was most closely connected, however,
was the Scottish Society for Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, Edinburgh, of which
he was elected a director in Feburary,
1927. Mr. Barrett devoted much time and
thought to the Society in every department
of its activities until the commencement of
his prolonged illness in 1935, when he felt
compelled to resign from the Board.

Despite his resignation from the Board,
Mr. Barrett up to the time of his death
maintained his interest in the Society’s
work. As a man, he was characterized by
intense earnestness and conscientiousness,
and a degree of modesty rare in people of
his attainments. His many qualities of
mind and heart were known and appreci-
ated to their fullest extent only by those
who were privileged to be most closely as-
sociated with him. In his relationship to
animal protection, Mr. Barrett’s advocacy
of reforms was invariably of such a prac-
tical and well-considered nature that the
cause, both at home and throughout the
world, has by his death suffered a grievous
loss.

The Women’s Pennsylvania S. P. C. A. of
Philadelphia is very active in humane edu-
cation work. Mrs. Bernice Scott Hoge and
Miss Ruth Murray each made 60 addresses
during July and August. Mrs. Hoge spe-
cializes in Daily Vacation Bible schools. She
spoke in 46 Bible schools; consisting of more
than 100 churches. During the school year
the public, private and parochial schools are
reached many times in large assemblies.
Kindness to one another and to all living
creatures is being taught, with addresses
given in various places all the year.

Our readers are urged to clip from “Our
Dumb Animals” various articles and re-
quest their local editors to republish. Copies
so mutilated will be made good by us upon
application.

Page 139

Turkey’s Active Society

T’S now Istanbul. It used to be Constan-

tinople. The S. P. C. A. of that city has
long been rendering a noble service in be-
half of animals, and its inﬂuence has spread
over many sections of the country. Among
its founders, and now its Secretary, devoted
friend and supporter is Mrs. A. W. Man-
ning, for many years connected with Robert
College.

Its annual report for 1936 tells us the
year was the most active in the history of
the Society. The total number of animals
dealt with for the 12 months was 6,168. This
number includes those hospitalized at the
refuge, horses sick or injured which were
put to sleep, but does not include birds freed
from cages and traps in which thousands
of birds are caught during the season of
migration in and about the suburbs of
Istanbul. This trapping of birds, happily
now illegal, is steadily losing favor and the
bird trappers are being driven farther and
farther into the country. This active So-
ciety has stood and still stands like a
beacon light ﬂaming in the darkness of suf-
fering and cruelty which shadowed so long
the lot of Turkey’s beasts and birds.

Protect the Youth of America
from Crime NOW!

Western Humane Press Bureau

Two hundred thousand children in the
schools of America in 1936 will soon be
joining the ranks of criminals, according
to an authority on research. This is more
startling than the common reports that the
great majority of criminals in the prisons
are less than 25 years old and a very large
number are less than 20.

More than four times as much is being
paid for crime in the United States than
for education, even including kindergarten
and college.

Fifteen billions of dollars for crime.

Three billion eighty-three million dollars
for education.

(Latest ﬁgures available in 1936.)

Preventive Measures

1. Education of parents. Impulses for
good or evil begin in homes.

2. More playgrounds. Statistics prove
that crime is less in neighborhoods where
there are playgrounds.

3. Co-operation of Parent Teacher Asso-
ciations with police. A monthly conference
among leaders of local organizations with
local police with a view to precaution and
prevention of crime. Co-operation among
all social workers and agencies which are
doing constructive and protective work.

4. Protect ﬁrst offenders. The ﬁrst
offender is not yet a criminal. The treat-
ment of ﬁrst offenders has made criminals.

Protect the youth of America from crime
now. NOW!

Wanted: Lovers of Men

Animal lovers are starting a crusade to
abolish the use of the horse in warfare. So
now all we need is that lovers of men shall
start a crusade, too. —Punch

Please look over price list of Humane
Education literature on inside front cover.
Samples of leaflets free on application.

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

Page 70

paper in his hand. As we passed the turf
cottage of a tiny farm, a large black
dog rushed down the lane to the rail—
way track. For a few yards he ran paral—
lel to the running coach——then the guard
tossed the roll of paper. The dog leaped
high in the air, caught the paper, spun
around, and tore back to the little hut.
The guard told me that it was a daily occur—
rence, that the dog regularly came the
quarter mile from house to track and car—
ried the newspaper to his master.

Several times, while riding on motor—
buses through northern Ireland, I saw con-
ductors either throw or get out and deposit
mail, papers, and packages, and saw dogs——
of different breeds—come and pick them up
and carry them to houses or hotels.

Ireland is, of course, full of handsome
dogs: of blue ribbon wolfhounds, foxhounds,
spaniels, terriers, racing greyhounds, and
other breeds. They are the dogs of the
rich—dogs kept for showing, hunting, rac-
ing. They correspond to such dogs in
America and in other lands.

But, as regards the dog of the poor or
middle—class family, I noticed a distinct dif-
ference in attitude and behavior—the grav-
ity and purposefulness of which I spoke.
And I believe it to be caused by the fact
that such a dog—as a rule—knows that
he has his work in life and takes from it a
sober pride and a sense of responsibilty.

The Greatest Singer

BENNETT B. SMITH

0 you realize that birds and man are

the only creatures in the whole world
that sing? In: the throat of nearly every
bird is a. little music-box, very small, that
produce-s such glorious music.

And the mocking-bird is the most remark-
able of all. This noble fellow that was
hatched just a few months ago perches on
a near-by branch and pours forth beautiful
song and imitations. In his throat he car-
ries a tiny music—box the size of a ﬁnger tip
that is the most remarkable music-box ever
created.

This bird may sin-g in many places—a
thicket, in the common branches of a tree,
or in the topmost boughs. Its greatest song,
though, is the dropping song. This song
comes at the height of the mating season and
is not often witnessed by many. The ﬁrst
notes are sounded in the top of a tree with
the wings extended and ﬂuttering. Then,
with the body all atremble, it pours forth
note after note until, unable to stay in its
place, it springs into the air. From this
place it falls from limb to limb, carelessly
clinging a few seconds, and ﬁnally drops to
the ground beneath the tree, exhausted.

During the nesting season, the male goes
in for a full day of singing. He sings from
the tallest tree, the housetop, or on the wing,
an ecstasy of joy.

_ The mocking-bird belongs to a group that
IS closely related to the thrushes and of
which the catbird is a member. These three
are sometimes confused in appearance or in
song. In appearance there is no resemblance
between the catbird and the other two. In
song they are much the same and it is a pity
that a bird with so pretty a voice should be
named from the occasional cry that resem—
bles that of the mew of a cat. The song

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

AN ANIMATED MUSIC-BOX

of the mocker is a little more reﬁned, how—
ever, a little fuller of loveliness.

The brown thrasher and the mocking—bird
are almost the same size and their song is
almost the same but their colors are dif—
ferent. The thrasher is of a reddish—brown
with the underparts of a buffy—white, barred
in black. The mocker is of a grayish—white
with some white bars on the wings.

The mocking—bird belongs to America and
is not found on the eastern hemisphere. Its
present range is from the Gulf of Mexico to
Washington, D. C., but it is extending this
range. A few years ago it was not found
this far north. It does not stand extreme
weather, however, and may not go much
further than the nation’s capital.

But the bird thrives best in the South
where it is no respecter of persons and
builds near the most humble cabin or the
most stately mansion.

There is something of carelessness in the
building of the nest. Built as it is in the
hedge or thicket, it is easy of access for
cats and other enemies. The nest is of rough
sticks as a base, with strings, horsehair,
and bark as a lining. Into this the four or
five bluish eggs, blotched with brown, are
laid. During the nesting season, the mocker
is a ﬁghter and will attack any enemy re—
gardless of size, including man.

In rural districts where the barn owl is
either very scarce or is not found at all it
would prove a distinct beneﬁt to import a
few pairs and protect them by efﬁcient leg-
islation, writes R. W. Shufeldt. They
would be a terror to all rats, ﬁeld mice and
pocket gophers of the country all round,
and they would keep the latter down to a
minimum at all times of the year. Every
time we slay a barn owl we give a lease
of life to vermin to spread disease.

May, 1937

Interview with a Wood

Thrush

STANLEY B. WILSON

HERE he was, hopping about on

patches of soil that showed through
slowly melting snow. And because I re-
membered reading that the wood thrush
is seldom seen near any human habitation,
this seemed to me a splendid opportu—
nity for interviewing such a shy bird. I
drew out my notebook and pencil and be—
gan to shower questions through the win-
dow.

This fall of snow had come late in
May, after many of the leaves were out.
Little dots of delicate green showed like
a network through the snow-laden) boughs,
making the forest beautiful. But the wild
animals and birds had great difficulty in
ﬁnding food. Just beside the house was
the only open spot where the sun, trying
to struggle through deep clouds, had
thawed the snow sufﬁciently for a couple
of robins and my thrush to hunt dili-
gently for worms.

“Are you really the largest member
of the thrush family?” I asked my un-
usual visitor.

I had already noticed that he was more
than eight inches long. The bird turned
to get a. look at the interviewer, and I
saw there was snow on his stubby tail.

“You must indeed be hungry to come
so close to the house,” I remarked. “Are
worms your regular food? The book says
you’re related distantly to the robins. And
they love worms, so I suppose—”

Just then a thought occurred to me.

“Was it you who, last summer, used
to sing at dawn every day, and shortly
before dark in the evenings?”

When the bird glanced at the window
with his large bright eye I could dis—
tinguish black spots on his white breast,
in contrast to his prominent brown head
and yellowish back. I remembered how
in July I had tried to discover the song—
ster, following his clear notes through the
woods, creeping noiselessly from tree to
tree so that I might get a glimpse of
him. But as the wood thrush is some—
what of a ventriloquist, I never caught
up with the music.

“Is it true that your song is the ﬁnest
of any of the thrushes?”

The wood thrush must have seen my
nose ﬂattened against the pane and
thought I was too inquisitive. Like many
other celebrities, he objected to being in-
terviewed. At that moment he hopped on
to the sawhorse, rested an instant, and
ﬂew far into the forest.

Sorrowfully, I looked at my blank page-s.
What a story I could make of this inter—
view if I had only remembered to write
down all his answers to my questions!

The W'isconsin Federation of Humane
Societies, of which Professor Leo P.
Schleck is president, held an all—day meet—
ing iii Madison on April 3. Among the
speakers from outside the state were Dr.
Wesley A. Young of the Chicago Anti-
Cruelty Society and Eric H. Hansen, man-
aging director of the Missouri Humane So-
ciety, St. Louis.

 

 

 

 

 

. .,._,W‘;’;2;.'.-~r_'af 9"}!- 5|




 

 

 

ill

PagelO
Our Dumb Animals

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston Ofﬁce: 180 Longwood .Av-
enue, Boston, Mass., to which all communications
should be addressed. ,

Dr. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President 1'
GUY RICHARDSON, Editor
WILLIAM M. MORRILL, Assistant

MARCH, 1937

 

FOR TERMS, see back cover.

AGENTS to take orders for Our Dumb Animals are
wanted everywhere. Liberal commissions are offered.

EDITORS of all periodicals who receive this pub-
lication this month are invited to reprint any of the
articles with or without credit.

MANUSCRIPTS relating to animals, particularly
prose articles of about three hundred words, are solic-
ited. We do not wish to consider prose manuscripts
longer than 800 words nor verse in excess of thirty-
six lines. The shorter the better. All manuscripts
should be typewritten and an addressed envelope with
full return postage enclosed with each offering.

Good News

OR a two-year trial period, beginning

in September, students at Massachu-
setts Institute of Technology will not be com-
pelled to include military science in their cur-
riculum. Two years of military science have
hitherto been required for any degree at
M. I. T. Since last September, however. 200
names have been signed to a petition object-
ing to continuance of the course as a com-
pulsory subject. Three other alternatives
will take the place of the compulsory course
in military science, International law, his-
tory of arbitration, and diplomacy have
been named as the alternative subjects. The
course in military science Will be continued,
however, for those who desire it.

 

 

Pity the Poor Fox Hunter!

It seems many people in England have
been writing letters to some of the men
and women who indulge in this so-called
sport. The following must be a clever bit
of irony. One can hardly take it seriously:

Sir—Why publish all these letters against
fox hunting, which only sets class against
class?

Cruelty to foxes, forsooth! What about
the mental cruelty caused by these letters
to members of the hunts, who are the salt
of the earth? If they were to think of the
wretched fox, their enjoyment of the hunt
would be ruined.

Long live Merry England, and a sports-
man’s death to Reynard!

TALLY—Ho in Staﬂordshire Sentinel

Two White House

Subscriptions

We are pleased to say that Mrs. Roose-
velt has just sent us two subscriptions for
her grandchildren.

SUMMARY OF ACTIVITIES OF FIELD
WORKERS OF THE AMERICAN HU-
MANE EDUCATION SOCIETY FOR

JANUARY, 1937
Number of Bands of Mercy formed, 336
Number of addresses made, 263
Number of persons in audiences, 48,956

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

ANGELL MEMORIAL ANIMAL
HOSPITAL

and Dispensary for Animals
1 184 Longwood Avenue Telephone, Longwood 6100

Veterinarians

. DAILEY, v.M.D., Chief of Staff

. SCHNEIDER, v.M.D., Asst. Chief

. SCHROEDER, D.V.M.

. SC‘HNELLE, v.M.D.

. MUNSON, v.M.D.

. BLAKELY, v.M.D.

HARRY L. ALLEN, Superintendent

Springﬁeld Branch
Telephone 4-7355

53-57 Bliss Street, Springﬁeld, Mass.

Veterinarians
EVANS, v.M.D.
. SMEAD, D.V.M.

QHPHPH
bowwmw

 

.m?’
b?”

 

 

HOSPITAL REPORT FOR JANUARY
Including Springﬁeld Branch

Hospital Dispensary
Cases entered 824 Cases 2,606
Dogs 592 Dogs 2,185
Cats 217 Cats 395
Birds 8 Birds 20
Horses 3 Goats 4
Goats 2 Horse 1
Squirrel 1 Rabbit 1

Monkey 1

Operations 914

Hospital cases since opening, Mar.
1, 1915 .......................... 146,622

Dispensary Cases ................ 857,526
Total ................ 504,148

The Month in the Springﬁeld Branch
Cases entered in Hospital ............ 122
Cases entered in Dispensary ........ 600
Operations .......................... 198

American Fondouk, Fez
January 1, 1937

We greatly regret that for lack of space
we cannot give this month more than the
annual report, a. most encouraging one.

Copy of the letters and records sent by
Superintendent G. Delon to:

The Head Of Servise Municipaux, the
Pacha, Care of the Commissaire du Gouv—
ernement, and the Police Superintendent,
Head of the Detective Police.

If you compare with the same paper of
last year you will see that for a less ex-
pense, we have treated more animals:

1935 1936
Average large animals 39 52.6
Average dogs 7 7.6
Animals put to sleep 283 555
Animals treated at Hospital 874 1,196
Inspections 4,300 4,102
Animals inspected 69,172 58,826
Animals treated during inspections 15,172 12,045
Animals sent to Fondouk 433 611
Pack-saddles, infected, destroyed 75 123
Out patients 1,071 2,556

The last ﬁgure is the most interesting,
and a proof that our work is more and
more understood by the natives.

We learn from the attractive ﬁfty—seventh
anniversary year book of the Wisconsin
Humane Society, Milwaukee, that Super-
intendent Walter J. Dethloﬂ“ gave talks and
showed motion pictures in 66 schools, repre-
senting an attendance of 20,000 pupils.

Mar.;1937

THE MASSACHUSETTS SOCIETY
FOR THE PREVENTION OF
CRUELTY TO ANIMALS

Founded by Geo. T. Angell. Incorporated March, 1868
See Page 45 for complete list of ofﬁcers

Prosecuting Ofﬁcers in Boston
Telephone (Complaints, Ambulances) Longwood6100
L. WILLARD WALKER, Chief Officer
HARRY L. ALLEN DAVID A. BOLTON
HARVEY R. FULLER HOWARD WILLAND

County Prosecuting Ofﬁcers
HERMAN N. DEAN, Boston
Middlesex, Norfolk and Plymouth
FRED T. VICKERS, Lynn Eastern Essex
WILLIAM W. HASWELL, Methuen Western Essex

FRED F. HALL, Springfield

Hampden, Hampshire and Franklin
ROBERT L. DYSON, Worcester Worcester
CHARLES E. BROWN, Attleboro Bristol

HAROLD G. ANDREWS, Hyannis
Barnstable, Dukes and Nantucket

T. KING HASWELL, Pittsfield Berkshire

Rest Farm for Horses and Small Animal Shelter,
ethuen
W. W. HASWELL, Superintendent

Taunton Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.—MRS.
HOWARD F. WOODWARD, Pres.; MRS. THOS. H. CAS-
WELL, Sec.

Women’s Auxiliary of the Mass. S. P. C. A., 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston—MRS. EDITH WASHBURN
CLARKE, Pres.; MRS. HARRY COLE, Treas.; MRS.
AGNES P. FISHER, Ch. Work Com. First Tuesday.

Springﬁeld Branch Auxiliary—MRS. DONALD C.
KIBBE, Pres.; MRS. HERBERT F. PAYNE, Treas. Second
Thursday.

Winchester Branch Auxiliary—MRS. RICHARD S.
TAYLOR, Pres.; MISS BESSIE SMALL, Treas. Second
Thursday.

Fitchburg Branch, Am. Humane Education Soc.—
MRS. EDITH WASHBURN CLARKE, Pres.; CAPT. WIL-
LIAM K. YOUNGLOVE, Treas.

MONTHLY REPORT OF SOCIETY
AND BRANCHES

Miles traveled by humane ofﬁcers . . 13,262
Cases investigated . . . . . . . . . . . .. 334
Animals examined ............. 5,381
Animals placed in homes ..... . . 149
Lost animals restored to owners. . . 62
Number of prosecutions ..... . . . 4
Number of convictions . . . . . . . . . . 4
Horses taken from work ......... 12
Horses humanely put to sleep . . . 33

Small animals humanely put to sleep 1,061
Stock-yards and Abattoirs

Animals inspected . 48,399
Cattle, swine and sheep humanely
put to sleep ........... ' ....... 25

Unlicensed Dogs Property

Lacker vs. Strauss
Massachusetts Laws, Vol. 226; page 579

By the common law, as well as by the
law of most states, dogs are so far recog-
nized as property that an action will lie
for their conversion or injury. ’

The general rule supported by the weight
of authority is that the own-er of a dog,
licensed or unlicensed, may maintain an ac-
tion for damages against any person or
corporation wilfully or negligently killing
or injuring the animal.

We are of the opinion the general rule
should be followed as one sound in principle.

The unlicensed dog was not. a trespasser
and outlaw upon the public highway.

From Supreme Court decision

In making your will, please remember
the Massachusetts Society for the Preven-
tion of Cruelty to Animals.

 




 

Page 186

 
 
  
  
    

  
   

  
 

GLORY TO
GOD,
PEACE ON EARTH,
KINDNESS, JUSTICE
AND MERCY TO
EVERY LIVING
\‘ CREATURE.

m
22

 

 
   

Founded by Geo. T. Angell Incorporated 1889

For rates of membership in both of our Societies
see back cover. Checks should be made payable to
Treasurer.

Ofﬁcers of the American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds

JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First
Boston Corporation

CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President, United Shoe
Machinery Corporation

PHILIP STOCKTON, President, First National Bank of
Boston

Foreign Corresponding Representatives

George B. Duff .................. Australia
Luis Pareja Cornejo. .. ......... Ecuador
Charles A. Williams ............. France
Leonard T. Hawksley ............ Italy
Mrs. Mary P. E. Nitobe ......... Japan
Mrs. Marie C. E. Houghton ...... Madeira
Dr. A. T. Ishkanian ............. Mexico
Joaquin Julia ................... Spain
Mrs. Alice W. Manning ........... Turkey

Humane Press Bureau

Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke, Secretary
180 Longwood Ave., Boston

Field Workers of the Society

Mrs. Alice L. Park, Palo Alto, California
Mrs. Jennie R. Nichols, Tacoma, Washington
James D. Burton, Harriman, Tennessee

Mrs. Katherine Weathersbee, Atlanta, Georgia
Rev. F. Rivers Barnwell, Fort Worth, Texas
Rev. John W. Lemon, Ark, Virginia

Miss Lucia F. Gilbert, Boston, Massachusetts
Mrs. Jennie R. Toomim, Chicago, Illinois
Seymour Carroll, Columbia, South Carolina
Rev. R. E. Grifﬁth, De Land, Florida

Field Representative

Wm. F. H. Wentzel, M. S., Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

Field Lecturer in Massachusetts

Ella A. Maryott

SUMMARY OF ACTIVITIES OF FIELD
WORKERS FOR OCTOBER, 1937

Number of Bands of Mercy formed, 344
Number of addresses made, 258
Number of persons in audiences, 34,029

Retired Workers’ Fund

We are receiving gifts to the American
Humane Education Society as a trust fund,
the interest to be used for the beneﬁt
of ﬁeld missionaries and others who have
spent their lives in promoting humane edu-
cation. Already several cases have come
to our attention and are being relieved in
this way. We will welcome your contribu-
tion to this fund.

Please make checks payable to Treas~
urer, American Humane Education Society,
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, and specify
that the amount contributed is for the Hu-
mane Education Trust Fund.

OUR DUMB

A Letter from Matanzas

N extraordinarily interesting letter has

just reached us from our worker in Ma-
tanzas, Cuba, Mrs. Electa Fe de la Pena.
Mrs. Fe de la Pena is one of the most in-
defatigable workers in the interest of hu-
mane work of which we have any knowl-
edge. A teacher in the schools, the most
of her hours away from school are spent
in awakening the various communities she
can reach in the better treatment of ani—
mals and their claims upon all for justice
and compassion. Literature, often purchased
by money from her own purse, is being
widely distributed. Work along the lines
of humane education is unceasing among
the teachers in the schools. Through that
whole section of the Island she moves like
a light shedding its rays into a section
where darkness has so long prevailed, so
far as the interests of the animal world
are considered. Heaven only knows how
many such workers live and die unhonored
and unsung by the great world and yet
whose services must be recorded among the
deeds that have made this in many ways a
better world.

The Georgia Parent Teacher Association
and the Georgia Humane Society, through
our representative, Mrs. Weathersbee, have
presented a petition to the governorof
that state urging the taxation and licens-
ing of all weapons calculated to destroy
life, quoting the words which were broad-
cast by a prominent penologist in which he
said that “only in this manner could the
wave of lawlessness that has been sweep-
ing the country be kept down,” recommend-
ing that the states themselves take the
initiative and that the legislation in the
various commonwealths be followed up by
national legislation to the same effect.

American Fondouk, Fez

Report for September, 1937 —30 Days

Daily average large animals 47.5
Forage for same $63.13
Put to sleep 56 16.53
Transportation 8.93
Daily average dogs 7
Forage for same 3.90
Wages, grooms, watchmen and stable-boys 50.33
Superintendent’s salary 93.22
Veterinary’s salary 16.78
Motor ambulance upkeep 37.57
Motor bicycle upkeep 3.04
Sundries 47.94
Actual operating expenses $341.37
Land purchase account 78.30
Building upkeep account 1.34
$421.01
Entries: 17 horses, 5 mules, 90 donkeys, 1 camel.
Exits: 7 horses, 4 mules, 48 donkeys, 1 camel.

Outpatients treated:
keys, 2 camels, 3 dogs.

Other Fondouks Visited: 70, all Native Fondouks.

SUPERINTENDENT’S NOTES: 583 cases investi-
gated, 11,384 animals seen, 1,595 animals treated, 65
animals transferred to Fondouk Americain, 5 pack-
saddles (infected) destroyed.

ONE DAY’S WORK

MONDAY, 20th: 6.45 a.m. Fondouk. Usual work
of treating animals. 8.30 a.m. to 10.15 a.m. Souk el
Khemis, Casbat ben Debbab, Fes Jedid and Mellah
inspection. Stayed 15 minutes at Bab Mahrouk. Then
to Fondouk. 11 a.m. to 12 noon Bou Jeloud, Talaa
inspection—Police Bou Jeloud sent one donkey to
hospital. 2.15 p.m. at Fondouk. 3 p.m. went with
Dr. Bouguereau to Bab Ftouh inspection, then to
Bab Guissa inspection. At Bab Ftouh bought one
horse to put to sleep (belonging to an Italian con-
Returned to Bab Ftouh at 6 p.m. with
Dr. Bouguereau to put to sleep this animal unable
to walk. 41 animals in hospital.

G. DELON, Superintendent

111 horses, 78 mules, 93 don-

ANIMALS

Dec. 1937

The Gray Fox and His Mate

E wish everyone of our readers

might read the beautifully told story
of the gray fox and his mate which ap-
peared in the October 4 edition of the Na-
tional Nature News. We are quoting just a
paragraph from it which suggests some-
thing that manv a married couple might
take to heart. This is the paragraph:

“It is interesting to remember that the
foxes, though they mate for life, always
court their mates over again each year.
They renew their marriage vows as ar-
dently after ten years of wedlock as they
did on their ﬁrst wedding date. For three
months after the wedding, the happy couple
occupy the same apartment. Then Mrs.
Gray goes away to ﬁnd a nursery in an—
other location, maybe a hollow tree or log,
where her children, usually a quartet, will
be born in mid-March in the south, mid-
April in the north. Father keeps in the
background during these days. Not deser-
tion—never! He is simply not betraying
the new domicile of his beloved family. He
brings to the doorstep dainty offerings for
his wife, and she steals away from her
babies to eat What her devoted husband
has brought her.

Humane Education
Conference

At the ﬁrst annual conference, sponsored
by the department of humane education of
the Humane Society of Baltimore County,
Pikesville (Baltimore), Maryland, held Oc—
tober 29-31, addresses were given on “Peace
and Humane Education,” by Miss Frances
E. Clarke of the American S. P. C. A., New
York City; “How to Impart Humane Ideas
to Children,” by Mrs. Grace D. Proctor,
teacher in the Fitchburg, Mass, public
schools; “Philosophy of Humane Educa-
tion,” by William F. H. VVentzel of the
American Humane Education Society, Bos-
ton; and “Bird Study and Bird Protection,”
by Winthrop Packard, director of the
Massachusetts S. P. C. A., Boston. Con-
gratulations to Mrs. Charles M. Shriver,
chairman, for putting on such an excellent
program.

Since the department of humane educa-
tion was established by the Humane So-
ciety of Baltimore County, in 1933, it has
expanded until now there are more than
300 junior members, representing all parts
of the state. Children attend regular hu-
mane education classes each Saturday,
which are held in the special room pro—
vided in the Society’s new building.

The twenty-eighth annual convention of
the Massachusetts Parent-Teacher Associ-
ation was held at the Hotel Statler, Boston,
October 20-22. Mrs. Edith Washburn
Clarke, chairman of humane education for
Massachusetts, was in charge of an exhibit,
and distributed a quantity of literature of
the American Humane Education Society.

February 13, 1937, Dr. Kerrl, Hitler’s
minister for church affairs, said, “The ques-
tion of the divinity of Christ is ridiculous
and inessential. A new authority has arisen
as to what Christ and Christianity really
are—Adolf Hitler.”

 




 

THE MASSACHUSETTS SOCIETY FO THE
PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO AN MALS
and THE AMERICAN I-IUMANE EDUCATION
SOCIETY ~ ~

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

1 ANGELL lN 1868.AND FOR FoRTY‘ONE

The Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

The American Humane Education Society

The American Band of Mercy

I would not enter on my list of friends,

Though graced with polished manners and. ﬁne sense,

Yet wanting sensibility, the man
Who needlessly sets foot upon a worm.
——COWPER

u U.S.Tra.de MarkRegistemdi \

   
    
  

atom 10
GOD,
Pace on EARTH,

  

  
     
 

mo Mencv TO
Evsnv LIVING
Canton:

Published monthly by the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood, Massachusetts

Entered assecond-clasmmatter, June 29, 1917, at the Post Ofﬁce at Norwood, Mass., under the Act of March 3. 1879
Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103. Act of October 3, 1917, authorized, July 13, 1919

Boston Ofﬁce, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

 

Vol. 70

A good way to help stop the cruelty in
the training of animals is to stop aiding
and abetting animal performances with
your money and presence.

More than 8,000 children took part in
the annual essay competition conducted by
the Cape of Good Hope S. P. C. A., Cape
Town, South Africa, this season.

He who compels himself to think kindly
toward man and beast, will soon, without
thinking, act kindly.

The “regular army of destruction” com-
prising some ﬁve millions of licensed and
unlicensed hunters now takes the ﬁeld to
kill, maim and harass the innocent wild life
that we can ill-afford to lose. The ﬁrearms
and ammunition makers are the chief
proﬁteers.

The child in his whole environment has
become the chief concern of the organiza-
tion and constant effort is being made to
“raise the standard of home life” until it
shall become a secure structure upon which
to trust the complex life of a great nation,
says the National Congress of Parents and
Teachers.

Sensitiveness of Animals

Many of our readers who have heard of
the celebrated Dr. Serge Voronoﬂ", about
whom so much has been written and said
relative to rejuvenation, will be rather sur-
prised to see that in a new book published
by him entitled “Love and Thought in Ani-
mals and Man,” he maintains: “It is a
great mistake to say that animals only feel
physical pain. Many of them have a soul
as sensitive as our own while their feelings
are sometimes even superior to ours.”

One would hardly have expected this
from Dr. Voronoﬁ'. At the same time, it
will conﬁrm the opinion of many whose life
experience has made them careful students
of the animal world.

November, 1937

Civilization’s Debt to the Dog

N an article published last month in the

San Diego Union. Mrs. Helen H. Edmonds,
chairman of the Humane Education Com-
mittee of the San Diego Society, quotes the
following interesting testimony of that rare
genius, Fabre, to the dog.

Centuries ago, man lived mostly by the
chase as the last surviving savage tribes
still live. The raising of herds, the tilling
of the soil, the manufacture of goods, all
were unknown. The ﬂesh of wild animals
gave food, their skins provided clothing. T0
catch the game a ﬂeet-footed auxiliary in the
chase was necessary and to keep dangerous
animals in a proper state of fear, a cour-
ageous defender was needed by man in his
pitiful beginning. The auxiliary, defender
and friend devoted even to death, was the
dog.

With the aid of the dog, says Fabre, life
was rendered less perilous, food more as-
sured. Leisure followed and from being a
hunter man became a herdsman.

Thanks to the dog, the herd gave abund-
ance, milk and its products, ﬂesh for food
and warm wool for clothing. Then relieved
from the anxiety concerning daily provi-
sions, man began to dig into the earth and
make it produce grain. Agriculture sprang
into being and with it, little by little,
civilization.

Based upon an ancient ceremonial a
demonstration is recorded in which 2,000
Buddhist school children in Japan took part
in a religious ceremony for the repose of
the souls of all the animals that died in
the zoos of Japan last year. Led by an
elephant representing the animal kingdom,
and ﬁfteen white—robed, chanting, Buddhist
priests who burned incense for the spirits
of the dead animals, the children prayed
in keeping with ancient precepts. The cere-
monial was based on Buddha’s teachings
that the trees, ﬂowers, grass and animals
have souls, and therefore mankind’s mercy
must be given them.

No.11

An Income from Slaughter

N English periodical known as Cruel
Sports reports the following:

Lord Airlie is receiving £5,000 for his
Cortachy grouse-moor—E5,000 for the sea—
son. Lord Cawdor gets £4,000 for a moor at
N airn. Lord Dalhousie has let three moors
for between £4,000 and £5,000 apiece. His
income from this source is reckoned at
£13-14,000 for the year.

Mr. E. P. Rogers, an American, is paying
£3,000 for two moors. Mr. Pratt, of Pratt’s
Motor Oil, has rented one from Lord Twee-
dale.

The hunter who goes out to shoot his
game matching his wits with the wits of the
bird or beast and hunts to meet a real
need of his own or his family is in a very
different class from the hunters who go out
onto preserves where animals have been
bred for the sake simply of being driven
in ﬂocks into the very face of the gunners.
To the credit of Lord Beaverbrook be it said
that the Scottish Daily Express, owned by
him, had recently the following comment:

“Yes, . . the twelfth day of August is
‘glorious’ for some because on that day they
hie them to the butts and there blaze away
at the driven grouse, for all the world like
a Spanish ﬁring squad machine-gunning
their prisoners.”

Bee Stings

We read this summer the account of a
horse being stung so severely by bees that
it died. Here is a remedy that was clipped
from a Western paper. It was submitted
by a bee man:

Heat boiler full of water. Add 10 pounds
of common salt. Wrap blankets wrung out
of this brine as hot as can be handled by
bare hands, around the animal. Relief is
instantaneous, cure is complete in two
hours.

This recipe may not come amiss to the
new bee handlers. Even with the best of
care bees sometimes go on a rampage.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 160

The Angle—worm’s Story

ALETHA M. BONNER

MALL and slender, the angleworm fam-
Sily are considered very graceful in their
movements. One side of their bodies is
ﬁtted for creeping, and it is according to
the general shape of this body that the
worm family is divided into a number of
, groups, chief among which are the flat-
worms; the thread or round; and the
annelids or jointed worms.

As their name indicates the ﬂatworm has
a ﬂat leaf-life form, and is exceedingly
small, measuring some two or three inches.
The underside of a stone is considered a
splendid location for a home, and many of
the worm species wear skin-coats to bar-
monize with their surroundings, such a
camouﬂage of color serving to life-promot-
ing advantage.

Threadworms are also tiny in size and
there are many species. Possibly the best-
known bear the name of “vinegar eel,” get-
ting this from its habitat—not a very
pleasant home, yet in the various kinds of
mold found on fermenting fruit juice, there
it is that Mr. and Mrs. Threadworm reside.

One scientist has described the annelid
family as “higher free-living worms whose
brilliant colors, peculiar habits, and remark-
able adaptations render them especially in—
teresting.”

This worm is composed of about one hun-
dred and forty rings or joints. Generally
speaking its form tapers to a point, while
its head region serves well in tunneling the
soil where it lives. In this burrowing pro-
cess it is aided by small body briStles, which
are stuck into the ground and serve as a
sort of foothold support.

It does its foraging for food at night;
oftentimes it comes to the surface-door of
its tunnel and but half emerges. Its head
and shoulders are above ground and it
noses about, twisting from left to right, and
thus scours the surrounding area for food.
It crawls from its hole and nibbles a tender
leaf, or perchance ﬁnds a choice morsel of
meat which some human has thrown out in
food-scraps.

Its circulatory system functions most
effectively, and it boasts a well—ordered di—
gestive tract. It is wonderfully equipped
with needful organs. At ﬁrst glance it
would seem that it has no mouth, but
closer examination reveals the small open—
ing. It is lacking in ears, however, and
organs of sight, taste and smell are but
feebly developed; yet, despite these seem—
ing handicaps, it leads a thriving life, as
is evidenced by the great number of angle—

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

worms on every hand. Darwin, the great
scientist, once estimated that there were
some ﬁfty—three thousand of them to an
acre of ground.

It is the good friend of the farmer and
the gardener. The reason it is so well liked
in agricultural circles is that in the pro—
cess of feeding and burrowing it is con—
stantly bringing to the surface some of the
deeper earth-loams, as well as mixing the
diﬁerent soils, thus keeping the ground
porous as well as keeping it enriched. It is
most active when the ground is damp, and
in winter it burrows down below the frost
line.

Vocally speaking, it leads a very quiet
life, though at times it does sing. Scien-
tists disagree as to how it produces its
thin but rasping tones. Some claim that it
makes the noise by a rapid clicking mouth
movement (open and shut); others, that
the buzzing noise is made by dragging the
ﬁne bristles that cover its body under-
neath, over something hard, at the edge of
its burrows.

In carrying on its underground plowing
and soil mixing it plays a very humble part
on Nature’s stage, yet humble parts must
needs be taken by some one; and so by
faithfully serving in its tunneling capacity
its lowly station is lifted to the heights of
efﬁcient service.

Some humans seem to think that the en-
tire worm family should be exterminated
because of the misdeeds of a few miscre—
ants; and these heartless humans crush
them ruthlessly under foot irrespective of
the species. This is as cruelly unfair to
worthy worms as it would be to annihilate
all members of the human race because of
the misdoings of certain vicious or depraved
types. Consequently we plead your consid-
eration and compassion, and refer you to
those lines by the English poet, William
COWper:

“I would not enter on my list of friends
(Though graced with polished manners and
ﬁne sense,
yet wanting sensibility) the man
Who needlessly sets foot upon a worm.”
We hold these truths to be self-
evident--that all men are created
equal; that they are endowed by their
Creator with certain inalienable
rights; that among these are life,
liberty, and the pursuit of happiness.
That, to secure these rights, govern-
ments are instituted among men,
deriving their just powers from the
consent of the governed.

DECLARATION OF INDEPENDENCE

 

by it.

 

TO OUR FRIENDS

In making your will, kindly bear in mind that the corporate title of our Society is
“The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals”; that it is the
second incorporated (March, 1868) Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals
in the country, and that it has no connection with any other similar Society.

Any bequest especially intended for the beneﬁt of the Angell Memorial Animal
Hospital should, nevertheless, be made to The Massachusetts Society for the Preven-
tion of Cruelty to Animals “for the use of the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital,” as
the Hospital is not incorporated but is the property of that Society and is conducted

FORM OF BEQUEST
I give to The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (or
to the American Humane Education Society), the sum of ....................
dollars (or, if other property, describe the property).

 

 

Oct. 1937

 

IN THE EDITOR’S LIBRARY

ADVENTURES OF DICKIE BEAR
AND DICKIE BEAR’S ADVENTURES
TIN dTHE NORTHLAND, Eva Hoag Des
ar ms.

The. ﬁrst part of this juvenile volume
comprises twelve chapters of verse, describ-
ing the globe-trotting of “Dickie the Bear,”
ﬁrst published two years ago. The new edi-
tion contains a second part of twelve addi-
tlonal chapters, also in rhyme, in which
Dickie goes visiting in the Northland and
meets two new characters, “J ack,” his play-
mate, and “Lars,” his cousin. Their ad-
ventures include ﬁshing and a thrilling
v1s1t to the Eskimo. Many humorous es-
capades are depicted, which will delight
the reader of tender years. Interesting
illustrations precede each part.

69 pp. $1.25. The Christopher Publishing
House, Boston.

CROOKED-BILL, I. H. Johnston.

A keen observer of nature and bird life
relates the life story of a quail which lived
his all too short life in “Bird Haven,” West
Virginia. Of the early part of “Crooked-
Blll’s” career the author tells only the facts.
The latter part is taken from actual obser-
vation and study of quail life in general.

.It is amazing that this useful, lovable, '
11v1ng bird can survive even a few short
seasons in the face of so many dangers and
multiple enemies. Snakes, foxes, hawks,
owls, sportsman—hunters and their dogs
make life for him constantly precarious.
Whether aground or awing there is little
safety for him.

Crooked-Bill’s homelife with his brothers
and Sisters of the covey; his adventures and
hair-breadth escapes; are interestingly set

forth by his kind and sympathetic biogra-
pher.

A concluding paragraph of the “Fore-
word” by Ernest Thompson Seton says:
“Those who WISh to know the stress and

‘ dangers and joys and triumphs of a quail’s

life, and especially those who wish to learn
how best they can help to save and multiply
the quail are advised to read and ponder
the truth about quail as set forth in the
story of Crooked-Bill.” A frontispiece of
“Bird Haven” and fourteen illustrations
are included.

179 pp. $2. Dorrance & Company, Inc.,
Philadelphia.

 

 

Our Dumb Animals

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston Ofﬁce: 180 Longwood Av-
enue.

Address all communications to Boston.

TERMS

One dollar per year. Postage free to any part of
the world.

. All dollar subscriptions sent direct to the ofﬁce en-
title the sender to membership in either of our two
Societies.

jRATES OF MEMBERSHIP IN

THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
OR THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.

Active Life $100 00
Associate Life 50 00
Sustaining 20 00 Annual

Children’s $0.75

Checks and other payments may be sent to ALBERT
%. tPOLLARD, Treasurer, 180 Longwood Avenue,
os on.

Active Annual
Associate Annual

$10 00
5 00
1 00

Manuscripts should be addressed to the Editor, 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston.

 




 

 

 

 

J une, 1937

 

Founded by Geo. T. Angell. Incorporated March, 1868

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustee-s of Permanent Funds
JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First
Boston Corporation
CHARLES G. BANCROET, Vice-President, United Shoe
Machinery Corporation
PHILIP STOCKTON, President, First National Bank of
Boston

Prosecuting Ofﬁcers in Boston
Telephone (Complaints,Ambulances) Longwood 6100

L. WILLARD WALKER, Chief Officer
HARRY L. ALLEN DAVID A. BOLTON
HARVEY R. FULLER HOWARD WILLAND

County Prosecuting Ofﬁcers

HERMAN N. DEAN, Boston
Middlesex, Norfolk and Plymouth
FRED T. VICKERS, Lynn Eastern Essex
WILLIAM W. HASWELL, Methuen Western Essex
FRED F. HALL, Springfield
Hampden, Hampshire and Franklin
ROBERT L. DYSON, Worcester Worcester
CHARLES E. BROWN, Attleboro Bristol
HAROLD G. ANDREWS, Hyannis
Barnstable, Dukes and Nantucket
T. KING HASWELL, Pittsfield Berkshire

Rest Farm for Horses and Small Animal Shelter,
Methuen

W. W. HASWELL, Superintendent

Taunton Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.—MRS.
HOWARD F. WOODWARD, Pres.; MRS. THOS. H. CAS-
WELL, Sec.

Women’s Auxiliary of the Mass. S. P. C. A., 180
Longwood Avenue. Boston—MRS. EDITH WASHBURN
CLARKE, Pres.; MRS. HARRY COLE, Treas.; MRS.
AGNES P. FISHER, Ch. Work Com. First Tuesday.

Springﬁeld Branch Auxiliary—MRS. DONALD C.
KIBBE, Pres.; MRS. HERBERT F. PAYNE, Treas. Second
Thursday.

Winchester Branch Auxiliary—MRS.
TAYLOR, Pres.;
Thursday.

Fitchburg Branch, Am. Humane Education Soc.—

MR. FRANCIS KIELTY Pres.; BRADLEY W. LEONARD,
Treas.

RICHARD S.
MISS BESSIE SMALL, Treas. Second

MONTHLY REPORT OF SOCIETY
AND BRANCHES

Miles traveled by humane ofﬁcers. . 16,549
Cases investigated ............... 386
Animals examined ............... 3,915
Animals placed in homes ......... 211
Lost animals restored to owners. . . 66
Number of prosecutions .......... 16
Number of convictions ............ 14
Horses taken from work ........... 11
Horses humanely put to sleep. . . . 60

Small animals humanely put to sleep 1,736
Stock-yards and Abattoirs

Animals inspected ................ 48,033
Cattle, swine and sheep humanely
put to sleep .................... 50

Our readers are urged to clip from “Our
Dumb Animals” various articles and request
their local editors to republish. Copies so
mutilated will be made good by us upon
application.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

ANGELL MEMORIAL ANIMAL
HOSPITAL

and Dispensary for Animals
184 Longwood Avenue Telephone, Longwood 6100

Veterinarians

. DAILEY, v.M.D., Chief of Staff
. SCHNEIDER, v.M.D., Asst. Chief
. SCHROEDER, D.V.M.
. SCHNELLE, v.M.D.
. MUNSON, v.M.D.
. BLAKELY, v.M.D.

HARRY L. ALLEN, Superintendent

OHQHWF
F‘Otd’ijm'ii

Springfield Branch

Telephone 4-7355
53-57 Bliss Street, Springﬁeld, Mass.
Veterinarians

 

 

 

A. R. EVANS, v.M.D.
H. L. SMEAD, D.v.M.

HOSPITAL REPORT FOR APRIL
Including Springﬁeld Branch
Hospital Dispensary
Cases entered 868 Cases 2,317
Dogs 670 chs 1,912
Cats 190 Cats 364
Goats 4 Birds 27
Birds 3 Horses 6
Horse 1 Coats 4

Monkey 1
Rabbit 1
Sheep 1
Mink 1
Operations 899
Hospital cases since opening, Mar.
1, 1915 ....................... 149,229
Dispensary cases ................ 364,975
Total _‘ ............ 514,204

The Month in the Springﬁeld Branch

Cases entered in Hospital ........... 134
Cases entered in Dispensary ........ 400
Operations ........................ 1 7 4

MASS. S. P. C. A. IN THE COURTS

Some Prosecutions in April

For cruelly transporting ﬁve cows, the de-
fendant was convicted and ﬁned $75.

For beating a horse with an 8-foot iron
pipe, a defendant paid a ﬁne Of $50.

Two juveniles were put on probation for
a year for stoning pigeons.

A motorist was charged with inﬂicting
unnecessary cruelty to a cat by failing to
stop, and making no effort to avoid hitting
the animal. He was found guilty and paid
$5 as costs.

For selling a horse that was unﬁt for
work, defendant was found guilty. Case
was placed on ﬁle after restitution was
made in the sum of $55.

Two promoters of a cockﬁght were ﬁned
$50 each and thirty—seven out Of sixty—four,
arrested for being present, were ﬁned $5
each. The others forfeited bail of $15 each.
Fifty gamecocks were seized and ordered
destroyed by the court.

A defendant was allowed to plead nolo
for cruelly knocking an eye out Of a horse.
He was given a suspended sentence, pending
an examination Of his mentality.

The Massachusetts Society for the Pre-
vention Of Cruelty to Animals has been re-
membered in the wills of Ellen J. Horace
of Brookline, Emma A. Gordon of Boston,
and Bessie H. Stanton of Vineyard Haven.

May 11, 1937.

Page 89

Cock-Fighting

FTER our eﬂicient Ofﬁcer at Worcester,

Mr. Robert L. Dyson, discovered and,
with the help of state troopers, raided a
cock-ﬁght where some 70 men were arrested,
and later ﬁned $5, and 59 birds taken and
destroyed, we have been asked how common
cock-ﬁghting is in our eastern states.
Though illegal, this ancient form of so-
called sport still goes on in these supposedly
civilized states. Cock-ﬁghts are hard to
discover. The time and place of the main is
kept secret and it is held in some secluded
spot in the woods or some building far
enough away to escape Observation.

But we are not less civilized than England
in this respect, for we read recently that
cock-ﬁghting is said to be even spreading in
Cumberland and Westmorland even by the
admission Of the Home Secretary in the
House of Commons. Strange to say, Sir
John Simon was reported as “not inclined to
deal very energetically with this breach of
the law, but said he would deal separately
with such cases as were brought to his
attention.” The courts here are sure to
convict and order the birds destroyed. What
is true Of the eastern states is true to a
greater or less degree in other states. Gen-
erally these mains are held in the spring.
Humane societies are always looking out
for them and they are raided whenever it
is possible to locate them.

NEW IMPROVED SWAGGERTY TAIL SET

N [\V

 

Note the double action eﬁect close to crupper.
Never gets out of position. Used by all lead—
ing stables. When ordering please specify
whether tail set is for 3 or 5 gaited horse.
Price $25.00. We specialize in tail set ginger
at $1.00 can and green ginger at 25 c. 1b.

This cut is taken from an advertisement.
How far, as a new device for setting up
horses’ tails, it exceeds, or diminishes, the
suffering Of the animal, we do not know.
We only know that the whole business Of
tail-setting is barbarous and unworthy any
true lover Of the horse, and are grateful
that in some of the states it is now illegal.

Work of the Honeybee

To make a single teacupful of honey,
8,500,000 bee-line trips to nectar—bearing
ﬂowers must be made. Short-lived, the bee
never lives to eat the honey it gathers. It
consumes honey stored by a preceding gen—
eration; its own honey is bequeathed to
generations yet to come—or to invading
man. ——Literary Digest

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

f van-sq."

Dec. 1937

Does Your Dog Bark
at Night?

A. CLARE

0 one likes to be disturbed in the night
stillnesses by the barking of insufﬁci-
ently trained dogs.

If your dog is an offender in this respect,
you can cure him—but you will need to
exercise much patience and perseverance if
you want to achieve any lasting good.

Almost in all cases, this bad nocturnal
habit denotes an unhappy dog. Either he is
bothered with ﬂeas, or underfed, perhaps
too hot, or not warm enough. Whatever the
trouble, if the dog’s discomfort interferes
with his rest, it is only natural that he will
express his feelings on the slightest provo~
cation—Which usually is vocally. There are
times when we humans, for all our superior
intelligence over our canine friends, feel so
irritable and generally out of sorts, that
we feel like smashing something, or yelling
at someone, in order to relieve the pent-up
feelings raging within us. How under-
standable it is, therefore, that animals
should feel the desire on occasions, to give
vent to their feelings, too.

Dogs will often prove a nuisance at night,
when fastened up too long during the day-
time—especially when they are left outside
all the time, and practically ignored. A dog
resents such an attitude. He likes to feel
that his master (or his mistress, as the
case may be) is his friend, that he is cared
for, and that some interest is shown in him.
Bringing the dog indoors to sleep, is almost
sure to stop the nocturnal barking—for the
dog’s added comfort, and the knowledge
that he is nearer his master, will work
wonders in making him spend restful
nights, as well as giving the neighbors wel—
come respites.

If, however, the barking should continue
after having brought the dog indoors, it is
up to you to see that none of the things
mentioned in the early part of this article,
are causing him to be so noisy.

Make sure that his bed—whether box,
basket, or kennel—is quite dry, comfortable
and clean, well—ventilated, and free from
draughts.

Next, give his coat a good inspection.
Satisfy yourself that it is not verminous.
Get rid of the slightest hint of such pests,
with a good insecticide, and disinfect his
sleeping-quarters thoroughly.

It is important that a fresh supply of
water is always available for the dog, so
that he is never without, either night or
day.

Should you have any suspicion that your
dog is at all ill, the ﬁrst thing to do, of
course, is to give him a thorough condition-
ing. If that is not effective, consult a vet—
erinarian without further delay.

In any case, feed him only twice during
the day—his ﬁrst meal being a light one,
and his principal meal being given to him
at night, after a long run. A short walk
of a hundred yards or so, is no use. See
that he has a real long ramble with you
directly before turning in. You can modify
this practice after a while, once you have
broken the original bad habit. If he comes
home really hungry and tired, he will settle

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

down happily for
the night, and give
no further trouble.

As already stated,
patience and perse-
verance are essen-
tial from the outset.
If you love your” dog
you should not mind
the temporary incon-
venience it causes
you.

One last point.
Should the barking
of other dogs during
the night set your
own dog barking, as
is frequently th (3
case, don’t treat him
harshly. Come down
to him, and coax him
kindly to settle
down again. But on
no account must you
spoil your dog. The

Page 189

 

wise dog-lover will AN AUSTRALIAN JOCKEY AND HIS FAITHFUL STEED

readily realize the
difference between

This good—natured dog may be seen often at Brisbane, Queens--

kindly,’ sympathetic land, trotting about with a koala on his back. The bear climbs
understanding and up.the front legs and nestles on- the dog’s back where he often
unreasonable upet_ enJoys a snooze. These fasc1nat1ng little creatures make great
ting.” Y o u r dog pets and are keenly sought by v1s1t1ng tourists, but a govern-

appreciates it, too,

ment regulation forbids their export.

 

and will obey you
far more readily if you reveal to him
that you really do understand him. That
is why gentle handling will do so much
more good in curing the noisy dog, than any
amount of bullying, or, on the other hand,
foolish “fussing” will do.

If you haven’t already tried this method,
put it to the test now, and see for yourself.

Economics of the Woodland
DORIS M. BALTES

IKE many another lesson, man might

learn economics from the dumb crea—
tures of the woodland, something of eco-
nomic determinism—of what motivates the
entire animal kingdom to war or peace, to
labor or leisure, to restless migration or to
contented home-making.

In the woodland he would see home-lov-
ing bears and beavers, squirrels, deer, (in
fact almost all animals are home-loving)
fare forth from their home territories only
when food becomes scarce, only when they
become dissatisﬁed with economic condi-
tions existing there; and the birds migrat-
ing to richer feeding-grounds but ever re-
turning to home sites when warm days
bring food there again. He might reason—
ably conclude then that trailers and tran-
sient camps have come into prominence not
so much from mere wanderlust in the hu-
man animal but from dissatisfaction with
the home feeding grounds—that man, like
the birds and beasts, would probably be glad
to live at home if the living were good.

And by studying the actions of the wild
animals man might learn the natural func-
tion of labor, that primitive labor is inci-
dental. to living, that the animals work to
gain food and shelter and then stop to enjoy
leisure. Each animal or group of them
could be seen working singly or together,
enough to provide for his own or the

group’s needs. One has to go as low as the
ant to ﬁnd any animals besides man taking
advantage of another’s labor.

By watching the notably hard-working
beaver one might be surprised to learn
more of leisure than of labor, for the
beavers in groups build homes for them-
selves that will endure and in the autumn
of each year Spend a few weeks storing
away food for the following winter. But
the rest of the time they eat, sleep, bathe,
comb their fur, go picnicking and travel—
ing, taking little tours in summer that al-
ways lead back to home territory, and part
of the time simply rest, as only the dumb
animals know how to rest.

Man might well pattern both his rest
and his labor after what he learns from
the dumb animal without so much “stew-
ing” over the tomorrows. Tomorrow in the
animal mind extends no farther than a sea—
son. Most animals store food for a winter,
but there are no monopolies piled up for
future generations. Forest food is shared
by all in the present. Only natural calami-
ties or the hand of man can create economic
scarcity there and send the wild creatures
forth—not to war for new territory but to
ﬁnd food wheresoever it is to be found.

Propagandists for war have pointed to
the forest and the jungle to prove the neces-
sity for wars, but there is far more of
peace there than war, and surely the way
to keep peace is demonstrated by the wild
animals—the cause of forest peace is so
obviously plenty. A hungry carnivorous
animal makes a kill and when his hunger
is subdued lies down at peace with the
world. The mountain lion will watch a
ﬂock of mountain sheep at play with noth-
ing more than interest or curiosity evi-
denced when his stomach is full. Realizing
this, it would seem, then, that man with his
higher intelligence could ﬁnd a way to share
the earth’s bounty that would bring lasting
peace on earth.

. 1‘"

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 86

a similar lecture, to be given especially for
children, and in the daytime, on Humane
Sunday next year.

The Boston Evening American conducted
a contest open to boys and girls for the best
essay on “Why Everyone Should Always Be
Kind to Animals, “offering a terrier puppy
for the best letter, $10 cash for the second,
$5 for the third, $3 for the fourth, $2 for the
ﬁfth, and $1 each for the next ﬁve, with
theater tickets for the following 25. This
contest was inspired by the ﬁlm, “Wanted—
a Master,” which Loew’s State and Orphe-
um theaters presented throughout Be Kind
to Animals Week.

Here and There in

Massachusetts

ARLINGTON—~Dr. E. F. Schroeder of the
Angell Memorial Animal HOSpital addressed
the Girl Scout Leaders’ Association on
April 14, showing lantern slides of actual
cases of work'with cats, dogs and horses in
the hospital, and demonstrating the correct
way to give mineral oil to a cat.

BROCKTON—The Brockton Humane So-
ciety, under the direction of, President
Ruth Strafﬁn, held a successful tag day on
Saturday. Splendid co-operation was given
the Society by the Brockton Enterprise
throughout the Week.

FITCHBURG—The FitChburg Branch of
the American Humane Education Society
and the Junior Humane Society placed 500
of the national posters in public and private
schools, stores and churches in the city and
surrounding towns. The latter organization
had an interesting exhibit in a window of
the Worcester County Trust Company. On
Saturday both organizations united in con-
ducting a tag day. The Fitchburg Sentinel
of April 17 devoted nearly a full page to
matter relating to kindness to animals, fea-
turing articles on horses, dogs, birds, etc.

MEDFORD—In an excellent proclama-
tion Mayor John J. Irwin of Medford urged
every citizen who was a lover of animals
to do all in his power to make the Week a
success, and concluded with these words:
“Aid the S. P. C. A. in its observance of
the occasion.”

NEW BEDFORD—To climax the week,
pupils of room 16, grade 6A, of John B.
DeValles School presented a play entitled
“Our Animal Friends,” under the direction
of Miss Doris Rankin. The cast of the
entertaining little play included such char-
acters as Judge Horse, Lawyer Cat, Lawyer
Donkey, Clerk of Court, Mr. Rooster, Mrs.
Robin, Mr. Dog, Mrs. Cat, and Mrs. Squir-
rel, all taken by the children.

A chorus consisting of members of the
class, sang various songs. There also was
a dance by children in attractive, typical
Portuguese costumes.

NEWBURYPORT — Superintendent of
Schools Charles R. Thibadeau announced
full co—operation with the S. P. C. A. in its
efforts to observe the Week, and instructed
teachers of the various schools to hold some

form of exercises on Humane Day in
Schools.

(Continued on page 92)

OUR DUMB

ANIMALS

J une, 1937

Byron and His Pets

0 . W . E V A N S in Animals’ Friend, Athens, Greece

E have come to associate with the
Wlife and character of Lord Byron,

the English poet who died in this
country aiding the cause of Greek independ-
ence, a wide variety of interests and en—
thusiasms. Of these, perhaps by no means
the least signiﬁcant, although it is often
overlooked, is the fact of his kindness and
devotion to the many animals with which
he surrounded himself throughout his life-
time and some of which he carried with him
wherever he went. There is a wealth of
evidence to support this fact.

 

LORD BYRON IN GREECE

“Boatswain,” the ﬁrst Newfoundland dog
which Byron owned, stands in the same re-
lation to the poet, says John Nichols in his
life of Byron, as “Bounce” to Pope and
“Maida” to Scott. It is said that when this
pet sickened and died of rabies, Byron
wiped away the foam from the dog’s lips
with his own hands. And he composed for
him a rather lengthy epitaph, ending with
the couplet

“To mark a friend’s remains these stones
arise;
I never knew but 0ne,—and here he lies.”

The exaggeration is youthful and alto-
gether Byronic, but we may assume at least
that the poet was genuinely touched over
the death of this his favorite dog.

Writing from his college in Cambridge,
Byron said: “I have got a new friend, the
ﬁnest in all the world, a tame bear. When
I brought him here, they asked me what I
meant to do with him, and my reply was,
‘He should sit for a fellowship.’ This an-
swer delighted them not.”

At this point it may be necessary to admit
that much of Byron’s apparent solicitude
for his various pets arose from a desire to
impress and astonish people.

In England, after his return from his ﬁrst
travels abroad, we learn of his living to-
gether with hedgehogs, some Greek land
tortoises, a Dutch mastiﬂ", a roebuck, a goat,

and a civet cat. Harold Nieolson, in “Byron:
The Last Journey,” says that when the poet
was living in Italy he “would trundle a
vast trail of bedizened carriages of monkeys,
dogs, and peacocks across the dusty plains
of Romagna.” In his palace in Venice he
kept songbirds, a tamed crow, a hawk, two
bull terriers, a dog bought in Switzerland,
a caged wolf, a fox, and other animals
besides. And Shelley, when he went to
visit him, must have been slightly surprised
when he found ﬁve peacocks, three guinea
fowls, and an Egyptian crane all staring
down at him from the grand staircase.

In July, 1823, Byron left Italy and the rest
of Europe behind him forever, bound on his
fatal expedition to his beloved Greece. Nor
could he bring himself to abandon all his
pets even now: Byron was an enthusiastic
rider and he took ﬁve horses with him when
he sailed, as well as two dogs and a ﬂock of
ducks and geese. It is said that the horses
became badly frightened during a storm and
that the poet spent the whole night in the
hold of the vessel trying to quiet them.

During the slow voyage he played with
his dogs, “Lion,” a Newfoundlander and the
gift of Lieutenant Le Meurier of the Brit-
ish Navy, and “Moretto,” a bulldog. Tre-
lawney, a friend of Byron who accompanied
him to Greece, tells of an amusing incident
which took place on this. voyage. It was
Byron’s habit sometimes to throw off his
clothes and swim about the ship, and one
day when he did this he was followed into
the water by his dogs and geese. “As I saw
the dogs worrying the ducks and geese,”
Trelawny writes, “I . . . sculled after the
birds and beasts; the Newfoundlander
brought them back unharmed; but “Mor-
etto,” the bulldog, did not mouth them so
gently.”

The Newfoundland dog was with him
when he died at Missolonghi, and accom-
panied his body back to England. Hob-
house, the poet’s friend, found the dog on
board when he met the ship containing
Byron’s remains at London Dock.

Lord Byron’s fondness for his pets dates
from his earliest youth and continued up to
the time of his death. In that affection we
may believe that he was at least reasonably
sincere. All his life he was a friend and
lover of animals, and it is to be hoped that
he will be remembered as such in Greece as
well as elsewhere.

Act1v1t1es 1n Pittsburgh

Governor Earle of Pennsylvania issued
a long statement in regard to Be Kind to
Animals Week. The Western Pennsylvania
Humane Society of Pittsburgh sent out
literature to nearly 1,000 ministers, many
of whom made use of it or otherwise re-
ferred to the cause on Humane Sunday. In
the Pittsburgh district 1,000 national hu-
mane posters were distributed. At least
5,000 posters were made by children in
the schools, about half of the designs being
exhibited in Gimbel’s department store.
Eighty prizes and 500 honor awards were
made. These activities were under the
direction of Secretary Wm. F. H. Wentzel.

 

 

 

 

 

 




p Anlmals and American Humane Education Society

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

/-

ffyy ,

 

 

 

 

 

 

‘

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

““IIIIII;

 

 

<l
,1

 

r7 .
mm

 

 

WWW/#17 ,
V «Mm

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

W

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SLAUG HTER‘ “
\ HILLSIDE ACRE

MET
H HIHHHHHIIHH HUEN

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

9

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 161;

Our Reproach
GIRALDA FORBES

We heedless slaughter little lambs at play,
And do not hear the dumb creation groan;

We trample flowers on our headlong way,
And do not hear the sad earth’s undertone

We make all nature serve us, and we cage
Wild frightened things, and bend them to
our will;
We do not vote for freedom for these slaves
Because we love the Circus, and the thrill

O f watching animals, condemned for life
To pace their narrow cages to and fro;

N 0 crime have these committed; why do we
Get pleasure from such tragedy and woe?

For we demand full freedom for ourselves;
We revel in green woods, the sun, the
stars.
How is it we do nothing to set free
Those wistful prisoners behind their bars?

Read Jack London’s “Michael Brother of
Jerry,” mailed, post free, to any address
upon receipt of price, 75 cents. THE JACK
LONDON CLUB is built on it. The present
membership is 689,191, all pledged to do
everything possible to stop the cruelty at—
tendant upon trick animal stage perform-
ances. Will you join it? No dues. Send
your name to Our Dumb Animals, 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston.

Members of the Jack London Club Oppose Such

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Queer Habits of the Wild
Creatures
HENRY H. GRAHAM

HE wild mother mallard duck, who

builds her nest in the rushes fringing
the shore of reedy lakes, lines the nest with
soft down from her own body, supplement-
ing this with whatever other suitable arti—
cles she can procure such as rags, leaves
and bits of cat-tail plant.

The cowbird never builds a nest of her
own, but lays her eggs in the nests of other
birds, leaving them to be hatched there
and raised to maturity by the foster par-
ents.

Unlike popular belief the timber wolf
does not attack human beings except when
in desperate circumstances. The animal
must be hungry, wounded or cornered before
attacking. In the dead of winter timber
wolves form into packs for their mutual
beneﬁt. Sometimes these hunger-mad crea-
tures will pitch into a human being, but
not if deer, elk or other forms of food are
available.

Herds of elk do not indicate abundance.
They indicate a shortage, for only when
their numbers have been reduced by win—
ter’s rigors do the animals congregate.
Often-times elk must be fed with hay drop-
ped from airplanes, to keep them from
starving. Just as soon as winter rations
grow short elk form into herds, roaming
the wilderness in quest of food.

The opossum, common to the southern
states, has a strange habit when caught.

(Illustration from Our Animals, San Francisco)

Nov. 1937

He plays dead and seems actually lifeless.
This, however, is merely a trick to deceive
his captors. When they leave he quickly
“recovers” and bounds away in his usual
good health. Even when carried away by
hunters the opossum is always watching his
chance to escape and will do so if oppor—
tunity offers. The old saying “Playing
possum” came from this trick of the animal.

When attacked, the porcupine, often
known as the “Quill Pig,” performs a curi-
ous stunt, peculiar to that animal. He
rolls into a round ball, tucking his head
in deeply. Thus, enemies can ﬁnd no vul—
nerable point of attack because there is
none. Every inch of the exposed parts of
his body is covered by quills. Even the
bear fears to attack the “perky” after the
latter rolls himself into a ball.

Raccoons souse their food about in water
before they eat it, and after eating wash
their front paws clean. '

The penguin during moulting loses so
much weight that he cannot dive for ﬁsh,
and what does he do? Swallows stones till
he has the proper ballast and then goes
after his ﬁsh.

The mother moose sees a slim birch sap-
ling with tender leaves and twigs at the
top which she cannot reach. She pushes
against it with her great chest and as it
bends straddles it, hOIding it down with her
body and walking till she reaches the green,
when both she and her calf dine from the
sapling’s top.

Acts as This

 

THERE IS A GREAT DEAL OF CRUELTY
THE FELINE FAMILY. NOTE THE

CONNECTED WITH THETRAINING OF WILD ANIMALS ESPECIALLY OF
BULL—WHIP, THE PROD AND THE PISTOL USED BY THE TRAINER

 

 




 

Dec. 1937
Begin with the Children

OLLOWING is an excerpt from the ad-

dress of Mrs. W. F. Krahl, of Chicago,
chairman of humane education, Illinois
Congress of Parents and Teachers, at the
humane convention in Milwaukee. Her
topic was, “Toy Guns”:

A typical American scene: A comfort-
able home, a cozy ﬁreside, the children in
bed, father and mother relaxing from the
day’s work, reading the papers. But what
they are reading does not please them, they
do not look relaxed, but worried. Another
war is about to break out in Europe, an—
other world war, perhaps. Will we again be
drawn in? Are we again to live through all
the horror and misery that brought us noth-
ing but brief prosperity and then the crash
and the long years of depression?

But uppermost in their minds is the
thought: Will Bob and Bill, their beloved
sons, have to go. The parents- shudder, the
thought is too horrible for words. It must
not be. It shall not be.

But the next day these selfsame parents
go out to buy Christmas gifts for their
small sons, Jack and Tommy. And what
do they select? Toy cannon, tanks, soldiers,
drums, bugles. Thus parents, through their
children’s play, perpetuate the very thing
they hate and fear.

Parents of today have lived through one
war, they know it means death and de-
struction, disease, horror and futility. But
their little boys do not know and if they
continually fool them about war, as so
many generations of parents have done, by
encouraging them to play war, these
precious little boys will believe that it is
all a glorious and gallant adventure, and
they will be tricked as were their parents.

A child’s mind is conditioned in his early
years; what he plays inﬂuences his entire
future life.

If we believe in honesty and truth we do
not encourage our children to play games
that glorify stealing and lying. If we be—
lieve in peace why do we encourage our
children to play games that glorify legal—
ized murder?

At this season of the year, devoted to
observing the spirit of “peace on earth,
good will toward men,” at this season
when we know of no greater joy than to
gladden the hearts of children, let us not
be guilty of implanting in their hearts the
desire to kill and destroy. Let us choose
toys that feature peaceful play, co-opera—
tion and creative eﬂ’ort. Let us change
the psychology of war for the psychology
of peace. All reforms must start in the
hearts of our children.

There is a member of the dreaded cobra
family among snakes of the United States.
This is the small Elaps palvius or Elaps
distans, commonly called coral snake,
which is found in some of the southern
states.

We may well be alert to see that in
scotching some of the sins of industrialism
we do not end up with a bastard democracy
deriving from communistic sentiment and
ideology.

PRESIDENT JAMES ROWLAND ANGELL, at
Yale University

OUR

DUMB ANIMALS

 

A Birds’ Christmas Tree

Why Not ?

F not a special one for them, you can

make very good use of your own, right
after Christmas, and derive much pleasure
in watching them come to it for the food
that you can easily supply. And here are
only a few of the kinds that the birds ﬁnd
good: Sunﬂower seeds, buckwheat, rolled
oats, cracked corn and wheat, oatmeal,
hemp seed and millet. Don’t forget to tie to
the branches small pieces of suet which
many birds will choose. Cuttings of sweet
apple, strings of popcorn, cranberries and
peanuts will also help to make an attractive
tree. Nearly all kinds of seeds and nut
meats are relished by the birds, and, if the
tree is set where all is safe for them, you
can carpet the ground around it at times
with crumbs and other scraps from the
table.

Some of our readers, we think, will see
opportunities to take good pictures of their
Christmas Tree and its bird patrons. We
shall anticipate hearing from them as to
results.

Cat Gives Life for Owner

Joseph Woolams of Homer, Michigan,
owes his life to the alertness of his pet cat,
says the Times, Fairmont, 'West Virginia.
Woolams was asleep in his burning home
when he was awakened by the cat’s con—
tinued scratching at his bedroom door. He
escaped clad in his night clothing, but the
cat died in the ﬂames.

The time draws near the birth of Christ,
The moon is hid, the night is still,
And Christmas bells from hill to hill

Answer each other in the mist.

TENNYSON

Page 187

Selections from “Progress

Today”

HERE is so much printing of newspap-

ers and magazines that the forests of
the world have been denuded to supply
pulp for the ravenous demands of the
printing presses and there is a serious
problem of where to ﬁnd a sufﬁciency of
trees to be slain and transformed into pa-
per. To me there is a mint of pathos in the
fact that the glories of the forest are de-
stroyed to feed the mind of man (the qual—
ity of the food is not seldom productive of
indigestion and fever).

Should I apologize, says the editor (L.
Lind-af—Hageby), for articles and letters
which make unpleasant reading? I think
not. The ignorance of the “good” is a ﬁeld
of proﬁt for the wicked.

At the Paris Exhibition the Interna—
tional Humanitarian Bureau of Geneva and
the Animal Defence Society had a hu—
mane exhibition in a pavilion specially built
for the purpose.

Men clothed in skins or war paint; men
in armour; men in soft raiment; men
harsh; men warriors, men kindly; men
shepherds—the patter of dogs’ feet has in-
sistently followed them all.

It has even been thought that the pres-
ence of a dog would desecrate a church or
churchyard. Only in Scotland is the faith—
ful sheep-dog allowed to accompany his
master and silently participate in the wor-
ship .of their mutual Creator.

The dog has, as it were, left the rest of
creation in order to be with man, and by
his intelligence, his powers of devotion, has
gradually led man to open the door of his
understanding to those other living crea-
tures of the same planet, whom man calls
“animals.”

From the shambles of the perpetual daily
slaughter of millions of fellow-creatures in
all the slaughter houses of the world; the
periodic slaughter of wild life under the
names of “game” and “sport” to the mas-
sacre of his human brethren in warfare
and the ever-increasing gigantic schemes
for the annihilation of men in future wars.
man has shown himself as the most mur-
derous of all living creatures both in ac-
tion and intent, and the most stupid.

“What is become of your dog, Sir John?”
asked a friend of Sir John Danvers. “Gone
to Heaven,” was the answer. “Then, Sir
John, he has often followed you, and I hope
now you will follow him.”

Mickey’s New Role

“Now, boys,” said the teacher, “tell me
the signs of the zodiac. You ﬁrst, Thomas.”

“Taurus, the bull.” f

“Right. Now you, Harold, another one.”

“Cancer, the crab.”

“Right, again. And now it’s your turn,
Albert.” .

The boy looked puzzled, hesitated a mo

ment, and then blurted out: “Mickey, the
mouse.” ——Kablegram

 

 




