   
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
   

-NOTICE.

 

The Secretary respectfully requests subscribers,
members, and others, to transmit to the Society’s

Headquarters, any extracts from newspapers or

 

other publications, which may come under their §
observation, concerning the objects of the Society, l
and also all BOOKS treating on Natural History, or '

of any kind, which may add to the value of the

LIBRARY OF THE SOCIETY,

thereby greatly aiding the Executive Ofﬁcers in

arriving at exact conclusions upon the various

 

subjects which come under their cognizance.

 




5:9.
V

\ ‘35; ' ' . V ' _
my “”11” . n .n- 1 ‘ l . '. .ﬁmw
ﬁg. ‘ ; . ~~~~~ _ II?“ J” ,
I , " '_ :v r V," w I” ”
. * " i '1 I’ ! I'IF'IUIIII' ‘11qu In
I|‘ II' I y ‘ {I A.” Iv‘l' lvm‘H-V‘S. ,.
I .'.' ., , ‘ 1': I I “I“ I ."
I I ‘ . . IJIHLIIIIIIQWIIIIHHI!
1

I .
If 517 ‘

’mmmmﬂu ;'5 .
v ,I _.

it

$2,

I

" ‘1 '5. A;
Mllumumx N If"
I "a "1'.

-“A' 1
.III‘I, -

L 3:3. ' - ‘ ' ‘
”I ”1’ I’- ‘I .' "t HIU'IW‘ Y'W “

I [l—\"I: I" [H

Ev: “rzggiagaux ...:zmgt‘rxg “ I
I III ;

II'J' _ ‘ x M A“ a V N In» .. I:: II “‘-» ‘u ‘ I,
um i I) I? ' H" 3:: . Aim; 3' I' .
I * III III“ .
\IIIIIIII “III 7 I " I" am h‘nn" *L-L-‘mm
‘ ‘ - Amman! .W u [WHITE EHIIIIIIIIIHIITTITH
IIIII III MIMI m ‘~ ~- m . ...... ”WI ..

:sIII

I; ,

III 1

I

II

I
I
I
I

 

I

I
I
I

‘I
I
:I v
V -“-"". .'

'E’r‘

I

      

I
.y = ,
, " ~, < . '= :1
«' i ”I ; 7 _‘ AWL _ _ 4 4 -4 .
.4~._I_.tr ,' :‘1‘ “2.4:: Li“ a" I A V 4 "i1: E r .— A ‘4
"’ ~ - 1‘ Fo-G, 5 =7.” I - V -:__ E“. W ‘4 3 ‘21:: ‘ 9
‘ ' “ -< - _ «r "‘ _
, x' ' ‘ A n >_ _ﬁ .
L N, I '. ‘ — .K ' ..
‘,. n .‘ ‘ : . n
.1 I 41 A A -— E
‘ , N
_ 5 I. __. .- . ’ . ~ ‘ -

.
5.
‘ 91‘ " ‘1‘.
n
' 2‘ ~14 ,
4.9+ I —
f; C /
‘ .44 v w A- _

 

HEADQUARTERS OF THE AMERICAN SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY T0 ANIMALS;

CORNER OF FOURTH Awmtrra AVD TWENTY-SECOND STREET, NEW YORK CITY.




 

1873.
@ﬂﬁiters uﬂ the smug,

ELECTED AT THE
ANNUAL MEETING IN MAY.

 

 

 

 

@rzsihent.
HENRY BERGH.

wire-@rzsihmts.

William H. Aspinwall, John A. Dix,

Henry W. Bellows, Benjamin D. Hicks,
James Brown, John T. Hoffman,
Horace B. Claﬂin, Marshall 0. Roberts,
Peter Cooper, Moses Taylor.

Gﬁmutibe diommittez.

Charles L. Anthony, Charles Lanier,

N. M. Beckwith, Frank Leslie,

John M. Bixby, Charles H. Marshall,
Thomas C. Doremus, Edward Matthews,
Nathan C. Ely, Royal Phelps,
Elbridge T. Gerry, James Stokes,
Townsend Harris, Alfred Schermerhorn,

Alexander Van Rensselaer.
@reasum.
Henry Clews.

dinnnszl.
Elbridge T. Gerry.

 

gttrztarg.
N. P. Hosack.

ﬂztzrinarg gurgwns.
Charles C. Grice. Alex. F. Liautard.

 

 




 

 

 

Eﬁommtrg membzrs.

——r—————

ULYSSES S. GRANT, President of the United States, ex-

ojicz'o.

SOHUYLER COLFAX, EX-Vice-President of the United
States, qx-mﬁcio.

. JOHN T. HOFFMAN, EX-Governor of the State of New
York, ex-oﬁicz'o.

A. S. BEACH, EX-Lieut.-Governor of the State of New
York, ew-Oﬁcio.

@tber (Ex-@fficia memhzrs.

—————_—_.

The Right Hon. the Earl of HARROWBY, President of the

Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals, London.

JOHN COLAM, Esq., Secretary for the Royal Society for
the P. C. A., London.

ANGELO AMES, Esq, of Albany, N. Y.

 

 

 




 

 

 

,.
4 ./'

1‘.

 

CHARTER

AN ACT to incorporate the AMERICAN SOCIETY FOR THE
PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS. Passed
April 10, 1866, by t/ze Legislature oft/Le State of
New Y0r/e.— Vol. 1., Chap. 469, Page 1019 of
tile Revised Statutes.

SEC. 1. That John T. Hoffman, Henry Grinnell, J.
J. Astor, Jr., Geo. Bancroft, Shepherd Knapp, James T.
Brady, John A. DiX, Marshall 0. Roberts, James
Brown, Horatio Potter, Thos. H. Taylor, Erastus
Brooks, Chas. P. Daly, Moses Taylor, Geo. T. Trimble,
John D. Wolfe, Henry W. Bellows, Peter Cooper,
Francis B. Cutting, Wm. H. Aspinwall, John Van
Buren, Hamilton Fish, Daniel Parish, John J. Cisco, A.
Cakey Hall, John McCloskey, Wm. C. Bryant, Edward
G. Steele, Horace Greeley, Samuel B. Ruggles, James
Lenox, August Belmont, Moses H. Grinnell, Wm. H.
Webb, J as. Gallatin, Harper Brothers, J as. J. Roosevelt,
C. V. S. Roosevelt, AleX. Stuart, D. C. Kingsland, J as.
W. Gerard, Joseph P. Beach, Geo. T. Clyphant, Oliver
S. Strong, Henry Clews, Archibald Russell, Benjamin R.
Winthrop, John A. Kennedy, Daniel Carpenter, Geo.
W. Dilks, Chas. Addoms, Geo. Griswold, Simeon Draper,
Robert L. Stewart, Andrew \Varner, Alex. T. Stewart,
Daniel Butterﬁeld, A. C. Kingsland, E. A. Washburn,
M. S. Beach, John D. Jones, Frank Leslie, Wm. Coventry
H. Waddell, Chas. A. Bristed, Thos. C. Acton, Wm.

 




 

 

 

 

Vi

McMurray, James Leonard, A. D. Russell, Henry Bergh.
all of the city of New York, and such other persons as.

may be associated with them, in conformity to this act,
and their successors, are hereby constituted and created
a body corporate, by the name of “The American So-
ciety for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.”

SEC. 2. The oﬂicers of the said corporation shall con-
sist of a president, ten vice-presidents, one secretary, one
treasurer, an executive committee of ﬁfteen members,

'and such other ofﬁcers as shall from time to time seem
necessary to this Society.

SEC. 3. The foregoing oﬂicers shall be chosen from
among the members of the Society.

SEc. 4. A library may be created for the use of the
Society.

SEC. 5. The said Society, for ﬁxing the terms of
admission of its members, for the government of the
same, for the election, changing, and altering the ofﬁcers
above named, and for the general regulation and man-
agement of its affairs, shall have power to form a code
of By-Laws, not inconsistent with the laws of this State
or of the United States, which code, when formed and
adopted at a regular meeting, shall, until modiﬁed or‘
rescinded, be equally binding as this act, upon the So-
ciety, its ofﬁcers and members.

SEC. 6. This Society shall not, in its corporate ca~
pacity, hold real estate exceeding in value, at any one-
time, the sum of one hundred thousand‘ dollars.

SEO. 7. The police force of the city of New York, as.
well as of all other places where police organizations
exist, shall, as occasion may require, aid the Society, it's-

    
   
   
  
   
 
 
   
  
   
 
 
 
 
   
  
  
  
 

£3

  

 




 

vii

members, or agents, in the enforcement of all laws which
are now, or may hereafter be, enacted for the protection
of dumb animals.

SEC. 8. One-half of the ﬁnes collected through the
instrumentality of the Society, or of its agents, for viola-
tions of such laws, shall accrue to the beneﬁt of said
Society.

SEC. 9. The provisions of this act shall be general,
Within the boundaries of the State.

SEC. 10. This act shall take effect immediately.

—_—-———

AMENDMENT OF CHARTER.

AN ACT relative to the acquisition of real property by
the American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals, and to amend the Charter thereof. Passed 7th
March, 1871.

The People of the State of New York, represented in
Senate and Assembly, do enact as follows:

SEC. 1. The American Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, a Corporation created by an Act of
the Legislature of this State, passed April 10th, 1866,
is hereby authorized and empowered to take, hold, use
and enjoy all the lands, tenements and hereditaments
which were by the last will of Louis Bonard devised
unto the said Corporation, for the uses and purposes in
said will expressed. And all the estate, claim, right,
title and interest of the people of this State, of, in and
to said lands, tenements and hereditaments, and every
part thereof, are hereby released, granted, conﬁrmed to
and vested in said Corporation.

 




 

ANNUAL MEETING

OF TH I“.

Jig/MEEIQJZW

, .0 A
:7? using ﬁnr 1qu iarwaﬂion at @1112th in Animals.

 

1878.

COR. FOURTH AVENUE AND TWENTY-SECOND STREET,

HEADQUARTERS OF THE SOCIETY,
NEW YORK, 17th May, 1873.

THE Annual Meeting of the Society was held at its
Headquarters, corner of Fourth Avenue and Twenty-
second street, this evening; the President, Henry Bergh,
presiding, who ,opened the proceedings with the follow-
ing Report and remarks :

LADIES AND GENTLEMEN :

The termination of another year, introduces us to the
seventh anniversary of the existence of the parent so-
ciety in America, created for the protection of the
dcfenceless brute creation from cruelty. It would be as
difﬁcult to enumerate the beneﬁts which have resulted
from its past existence, as to predict its future useful~
ness. One fact, however, may be adduced, tending to
assist in arriving at an approximate estimate of the

 




  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
   

 

 

  
 
 
 
 
  
 

 
 

2

fermer, viz.: that twenty-ﬁve States and territories of
our country, including Canada, approving and admiring
our example, have founded similar societies, and generally
adopted for their shield the emblem of this one. That
there remains ample work for all of us, the observation
of every humane person conﬁrms ; nor is this conclusion
reached merely by reason of the overt cruelties which
force themselves on the public View, but by the equally
signiﬁcant evidence afforded through the utterances of
public thought. There are many intelligent persons who,
while admitting that it is a great wrong to cruelly treat
a horse, an ox, a dog, or other useful domestic ani-
mal, completely deny to creatures still lower in animal
life all consideration, and claim it as a privilege, if not
a duty, to manifest their aversion, by the inﬂiction of
tortures which betray, to say the least, an imperfect
civilization. They fail to appreciate the full signiﬁcance
of the sentiment of humanity, which regards the inﬂic-
tion of needless pain and suffering, even on the meanest
and most obnoxious living thing, still as cruelty; and,
as such, an insult to that omnipotent Power, whose
greatest attributes are indiscriminate mercy and com—-
passion to all His creatures.

“Why,” remarked a Senator, while our bill was under-
consideration in that branch of the legislature, during
the present session—~“ why, these humanitarians will by--
and-bye tell us that we should be tender in the treat-
ment of the rat, the reptile, and the bug! ”

Yes, Mr. Senator, you are right 3 only your prediction:
is not comprehensive enough; for the “'by-and-bye” is
now present, ever has been, and ever will be, because it
is an attribute of the Deity and of His world. Kill, if
necessary, but torture not, is the command of intelligent;
reason. While on this subject of

 
   
  

 

 

  




 

0:;

LEGISLATION,

it is best to dispose of it here. A bill entitled “An Act.
for the better prevention of disease and cruelty,” was
carefully prepared by Mr. Gerry and myself, and early
introduced to the Senate. The medium of its presenta»
tion was unfortunate; for Senator Benedict, to whom

it was given in charge, soon betrayed a strong aversion
to, and opposed it with a ceaseless persistency, which, if '
exercised in a right direction, would soon earn for him a.
lasting fame. But, however violent the opposition which

proceeded from this source, it was in the Judiciary Comm
mittee that it was destined to experience an opposition,

not alone, as in the former instance, characterized by an

inconsiderate antipathy, but by an open, undisguised

hostility, based seemingly on personal and pecuniary
interests alone, on the part of one of its members.

The principal opposition which it received was to the
section prohibiting the salting of the streets, for the pur-
pose of melting snow and ice, a practice most disastrous
to the feet of horses and the health of human beings. A
large deputation of railroad and omnibus proprietors
from New York and Brooklyn appeared before the J udi-
ciary Committee of the Senate, to which it was referred,
who warmly advocated its use, and were as earnestly op»
posed by ourselves and the expert testimony which we
produced, among which latter was that of Dr. Sayer,
late health ofﬁcer of this port. During this discussion an
incident occurred which afforded painful evidence of the
habitual disregard of the amenities of ofﬁcial intercourse
which characterizes, as a rule, the deliberations of many
of our public bodies. An illiterate fellow, proprie-
tor of one of the omnibus lines of this city, accompanied
by his dull but malicious legal adviser, thinking that he
was addressing his associates of the stable and the “ Sample

 




  

4

Room,” gave vent to a string of falsehood and invective
against myself which, while it was certainly actionable
at law, was far too low and disgusting for notice. Pre-
eminently vile as was this tirade, and that of his paid
companion, it will amaze all respectable readers to learn
that the-y were permitted to thus violate the established
usages of parliamentary decorum, by the employment of
the grossest personalities, unrebuked! And yet there'
were on that committee two or three able and worthy
gentlemen who silently tolerated the insult thus offered
them! It soon became apparent that in order to pro-
grcss the bill, all contained within it which in the least
affected the railroad interests must be eliminated;
and this having been accordingly done,yassurance was
given by the senator from Kings county representing
these interests, that no further opposition would proceed
from that quarter. Conceive our surprise, however, on
ﬁnding that every remaining provision of the bill received
the most determined assault from the same source while
under discussion in committee of the whole; and ulti-
mately, while on its ﬁnal passage, in order to try and
kill it with a single blow, he moved “that the enacting
clause be stricken out.” It is gratifying to report, how-
ever, that this unbecoming struggle to destroy a most
useful and humane measure failed by a vote of 18 to 5.

In nearly a similar case, which has just come to my
knowledge, the House of Representatives refused to
allow a member to vote on account of his personal in-
terest in a subject about to be voted on.

While thus communicating to the Society, as is my
duty, every thing antagonistic to its proceedings, it be-
comes me, as well, to speak in appreciative terms of’ the
steadfast and statesmanli‘ke action of Gen. D. P. Wood,
the faithful and laborious chairman of the Judiciary

 

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
  
 

 

 

  




 

 

5

Committee of the Senate ; who, insensible to the clamor
of some of his colleagues, supported, with his sympathy
and commanding talents, every provision of the bill
until the end. I feel assured that this Society will share
my feelings of gratitude toward this excellent gentle-
man, to Whom we are mainly indebted for its triumphant
passage through the Senate.

Mr. Gerry having appeared before the Judiciary Com-
mittee of the Assembly, and explained our bill, it was
reported favorably by the Chairman, Mr. Prince, and on
the evening of March 13 it was advanced out of its
regular order and considered. Although much opposi-
tion was manifested, it was evident, as the Speaker and
other gentlemen subsequently remarked to me, that the
feeling of the House was decidedly favorable to it.

True to his former practice and instincts, the person
who is usually designated as “the member from Sligo,”
arrayed himself ﬁercely against it, in obedience to his
pet idiosyncrasy, to wit : That criminals shall be arrested
only “ on warrant.” The practical Operation of this idea
is worthy of illustration. If you see a man beating out
the brains of a hardworking horse, for example, you must
step up to the offender and request him, after he shall
have sufﬁciently satisﬁed his vengeance, to give you his
' address, if he have any, or if not, then to remain where he
is'for a few hours, until you can go and ﬁnd a magis-
’ trate and obtain a warrant, when you may arrest him,
provided he has been sufﬁciently obliging to await your
return. 0n the 18th of March it was “ moved” by Mr.
Batcheller, of Saratoga ; and after several injurious
amendments had been made to it, further discussion was
deferred until the evening of the 20th inst, when
it was made the special order for that occasion; and
after the canal interest had stricken out all protection

0

 




     
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  

 

to its toiling and tortured skeletons of horses, and
the butchers, and the slaughterers of birds and fowls
“for the fun of the thing,” in contests of skill for a
wager, had each satisﬁed their pet cruelty, Mr. (1G.
Corn-ell, of this city, also offered an “amendment”
that no arrest should be made except on warrant ﬁrst
obtained! I need not detain you by any further
comments on this impracticable measure, the tendency of
which, as you are aware, is to speedily consign the living,
practical, and active institution which your humanity
sustains, into one of those efiete and musty curiosities,
with which the museum of neglected laws abounds.
Nor will I do the intelligence of the mover of it the in—
justice to believe that even he thinks it reasonable and
practicable I No; the simple purpose of the mover of the
amendment was to hopelessly cripple, if not destroy, the
beneﬁcent usefulness of this Society, and gain for him-
self the applause and suifrages of those among his con-
stituents who are always the recognized enemies of so-
ciety at large. After a few more inconsiderable “ amend-
ments,” as they are facctiously termed, the bill was
ordered to a “ third reading,” and ﬁnally, on the 20th of
March, the Senate bill, No. 95, was reached, and, not-
withstanding the numerous “amendments” it had re-
ceived in its passage through both Houses, it was
ultimately “ killed” by a vote of 58 nays to 52 ayes——
absent 18.

The innocent outside world may well be astonished at
this, but the inside citizen feels no emotion of that sort,
being familiar with machinery and engineering in gen-
eral. In short, it was boldly asserted on the previous
evening that the railroad and omnibus philanthropists
had sent up the necessary quantity of oil to make the
engine run quietly; and hence, this bill, along with one
or two others obnoxious to those unselﬁsh patriots, and

‘q

 




 

’7

‘put together in the same pool, was ground to powder l
‘On the announcement of the vote, the vigilant and friend-
ly Husted obtained a resolution laying it on the table,
with a View to its future consideration, and after

"thanking our friends, Mr. Gerry and I took the ﬁrst
train to town.

On the 14th of this month, Mr. Husted moved to re-
consider the vote by which our bill was lost, when Mr.
'C. S. Lincoln, of Ontario, opposed the motion.

LOUIS BONARD’S ESTATE.

It is with inﬁnite pleasure that I announce to you the
‘ﬁnal termination of the tedious “ Bonard Will Case,”
Which has obtained for itself a distinction which gives
it high rank among the causes cclebrcs of the courts
(of posthumous justice. My experiences during this
equivocal contest have not elevated my opinions of the
moral superiority of the “superior animal” over the
lower. So far as I have observed, those humble creatures
whose protection we assume, never exhibit in their inter-
course with one another a higher order of selﬁshness and
avarice, than most of the learned beings have betrayed
in their relations to this inquiry. But, however con—
spicuous these characteristics have appeared during the
inquisition itself, it was reserved for the adjustment of
the pecuniary claims to make the disparity more so.

I should consume too much of your time, and per-
chance too greatly disturb your equanimity, by detailing
these subtle and absorbing efforts to divert from its
legitimate use, the generous bequest of the good Mr.
Bonard. Sufﬁce it to say that the ingenuity of counsel,
along with the extravagant demands of medical ex-
perts(?), succeeded in relieving the estate of about
$30,000. In the former connection, however, I do not
mean to include the legitimate professional services of

 




 

9

INJUNCTIONS.

It has become the practice of late, on the part of cor-
porations, to have recourse to this legal panacea, when
their actions will not hear the scrutiny of an ordinary
trial. Injunctions and orders to shew cause, possess one
captivating merit: they enable those obtaining them to
suspend the operation of law, while dismal and deferred
argument “drags its slow length along.” Five of the
unselﬁsh stage proprietors of this city have procured this
blessing against us, in part; and two large abattoirs have
been equally successful in their petition to be allowed
to murder, in horrible agonies, the unoffending brute des-
tined for human food ! ' .

EPIZOOTIC.

During the past year a disease thus characterized has
visited our country with the most fatal results ; but, like
most of the misfortunes of this life, it carried along with
it an instructive moral ; for it painfully illustrated to the
world the value of the horse, and how directly dependent
mankind are on that glorious animal. I wish the thought-
less would pause a moment to consider: if the partial
loss of the usefulness of one race of animals can so dis-
turb all the relations of life, what would be the conse-
quence if we were suddenly deprived of all the inferior
animals I Could a deluge or an earthquake produce
'more terrible results?

WASTE OF ANIMAL LIFE.

As is well known to the Society, we have undertaken
the destruction of all animals irrecoverably disabled,in
order to insure them a speedy and merciful death. Our
ofﬁcers during the past year have killed 835 horses, ex-
clusive of smaller animals. The Police Department has
resigned this duty into our hands, and regularly notiﬁes
us whenever wanted.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

10

I. think that my observations abroad and at home jus-
tify me in saying that in no other part of the werld is
animal life esteemed so cheaply. It is asserted that

some street-railroad proprietors act on the principle that-

horseﬂesh is cheaper than good oats ; and hence it pays
better to run these wretched animals so; long as any
vitality remains in them, and ~then replace them by
others. But it is not only this class of proprietors that
are open to this cruel censure; those engaged in the
transportation of animals from a distance, swell the fear-
ful sacriﬁce, as has lately been shown, by ﬁfteen hundred
at a time perishing of cold and starvation! Even ex-
' hibitors of rare and costly creatures, have furnished their
quota to the tremendous catalogue; and you doubtless
all remember the late appalling destruction of Mr. Barv
nurn’s menagerie, for the third time. TNow, I do not
'hesitate to say that all these anul disasters are the result
of carelessness, and a defective system of conﬁning the
creatures they have in charge. With scarce an excep-
tion, they are kept in places wholly unsuited for the pur-
pose. While in transit they are far less protected, than
inanimate freight ; and, when stationary, are shut up in
buildings which Only serve as fagots to roast them alive.
Among the provisions of the bill which we presented to
the Legislature was a remedy for these inhuman oc-
cur rences.
MISCELLANEOUS.

I have petitioned the Mayor and Common Council, to
provide us with a lot of ground and a suitable building,
for the merciful destruction of the suffering vagrant dogs
wandering about the streets, with an oﬂ‘er on our part to
take '.charge of this work, free of other expense to the
city government. 4 The subject was referred to the Com-
mittee on Public Works, who reported that although
they were in favor of the plan, they'did not know of any

\K

 

 




 

 

\K

11

appropriation from which funds could be drawn or used
tor carrying out the object suggested.

Continued appeals to the Federal Congress have re-
sulted in the passage of an act regulating the transporta-
tion of cattle from State to State.

The substitution of steam engines for horses propelling
street cars and canal boats is still under consideration.

THE NEW HEADQUARTERS OF THE SOCIETY.

In conclusion, I have to congratulate the Society 011
its acquisition of permanent quarters for the transaction
of its business. During the seven years of our ofﬁcial
existence, we have contentedly, althoughat much incon-
venience, transacted our business at a great disadvantage.
To those who are familiar with the innnense proportions
to which this work has grown, the demand for increased
space will not be surprising. '

In a word, from nothing ithas spread its humanizing
inﬂuence over our whole country, and called into being

'societies for the protection of the inferior animals, Where

none ever existed before.

Again, the dignity of the work, as well as the im-
mensity of its achievements, warrant the society in the
judicious purchase of the elegant and commodious build-
ing it now possesses.

Mr. Nathan C. Ely moved the following resolution,

‘which was seconded and carried unanimously :

Resolved, That the admirable address of the President
of the Society be, and 1s he1 ebV highly approved of, and
he 1s requested to cause the same to be published.

 




 

 

 

    

   

12

The Chairman then called upon the Acting-Secretary
to read the minutes of the last me eting ofgthe Society,
which were as follows:

At a special meeting of the “ American Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals,” held on the 7th May,
1873, in accordance with Chapter XIX. of. the Code of

.. By-Laws, Mr. Elbridge T. Gerry proposed, in writing,

the following Amendments to the Code of By-Laws of'
the Society: ‘

1. Amend Section 4 of Chapter IV. of the Code

of By-Laws so that the same shall read as fol~-
lows:

g4. The ﬁscal year of the Society shall, for all pur-
poses, commence on the ﬁrst day of January, and end
with the thirty-ﬁrst day of December, in each year.

.2. Amend Section 2 of Chapter V. of the Code

of By-Laws so that the same shall read as folw
, lows:

§ 2. The ofﬁcers of the Society shall be chosen from
among its members. With the exception of the Super-1
intendent, who shall be appointed by, and hold ofﬁce
during the pleasure of, the President, they shall be-
elected every three years by ballot, and shall hold their
oﬂices respectively until others are elected in their
places. Such election shall take place at the annual
meeting of the Society, in the year when it falls due, and.
if from any cause there shall be a failure of such election '
at the time above mentioned, the same may be held
at a meeting to be specially called for that purpose, in a
manner speciﬁed in the Seventh Chapter of this Code 01:“
By-Laws. '

 
    
   
  

 

 

 




“\f

 

 

13

3. Amend Sections 1 and 2 of Chapter V I. of the
Code of By-Laws so that the same shall read
as follows, respectively :

§ 1. The annual meeting of the Society shall be held
on the ﬁrst Thursday in January, or as soon thereafter
as convenient, in each and every year hereafter.

§ 2. Every member of the Society who has been such
for Twenty days or more, and who is not in arrears for
his dues, shall be entitled to vote at any election.

4. Amend Section 2 of Chapter VII. of the Code
of By-Laws so that the same shall read as fol-
lows:

§ 2. Such call shall be made by keeping posted a no-
tice of the time and place of such meeting in a conspicu-
one place in the oﬁice or rooms of the Society, during at
least two days before the same is proposed to be held.

5. Amend Section 11 of Chapter XVII. of the
Code of By-Laws so that the same shall read as
follows: .

§ 11. At all meetings of the Executive Committee,

"three members present shall constitute a quorum for the

transaction of business.

Adjourned.
HENRY BERGH.

 

The foregoing amendments were adopted by a unani~
mous vote of the members present.

T. W. HARTFIELD,
Acting Secretmvy.

 

The Chairman then called upon the Acting Secretary

to read the Reports of the. Secretary, Executive Com-

mittee, and Treasurer.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

    
 
 
 
    
 
 
 
  
  
   
  
 
  
   

grrretary’s $310011.

4‘;
‘VV

   

 

The Secretary presents the following Report of the.
general work of the Society, its Branches and Agents,
for the past year.

LECTURES.

During the year the President has received a large
number of urgent invitations to visit various parts of
the country, and, by delivering lectures and addresses,
aid in the formation of kindred Societies for the preven-w
tion of Cruelty to Animals. Pressing calls from far-off
cities in many States where as yet the ﬂag of protection is
not unfurled, have been declined by the President, owing
to his incessant labors in our own city, butin such cases--
letters of advice, accompanied by documents, have been
forwarded, and good results have followed.

The following places have been visited and lectures
delivered by the President: ' -

187 2, May 3. Jersey City.-—First anniversary of the
Hudson County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to.
Animals.

1872, May 23. Sing Sing.——~At the organization of a
Branch of the Society at that place.

1872, Nov. 27. Auburn, N. Y.——By invitation of the '
Young Men’s Christian Association at that place.

1872, Dec. 18. Providence, R. I.—By invitation of

the Rhode Island Society for the Prevention of Cruelty:
to Animals. - '

 

 

  




 

 

  

    

15

1873, Jan. 17. New York City‘.—-Plympton Hall, by
request of the New York Liberal Club.
. 31873, March. Trenton, N. J.——At the organization
of a Branch of the New Jersey Society. I

1873, April. Paterson, N. J .——By invitation of the
Passaic County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to

. Animals.

SPREAD OF THE HUMANE WORK.

The American Society for the Prevention of. Cruelty .
to Animals has, in addition to its local staﬂ, ﬁfty-four
agents in various parts of the State, engaged in carrying
on its humane labor, and the reports recently received
from them are very satisfactory. In towns and villages
where the most outrageous acts of cruelty were of
frequent occurrence, hardly a single case has occurred
during the past year. The knowledge that an Agent,
wearing his shield of ofﬁce, is near, and that sure and
speedy punishment will follow, prevents the inﬂiction of
much sultering. The Society has also ten regularly.
organized Branches in full’ working order.

The following statement shows the steady progress of
the. good work:

Alabama—No laws.

Arkansas-4‘10 laws.
C’alvfornia.——Laws passed and two Societies organized.

Connecticut—Laws before the LegislatureﬂSociety
organized and charter granted. 1 .

jjeZaware.——In correspondence with the American
Society.

Florida—No laws.
Georgia.——Laws passed and State Society organized.
Illinois.—Laws passed and State Society organized.




 

    

  

17

Virginia—Organization being effected.

West Virginian—Laws passed and State Society or—
.ganized.

Wisconsin—No laws. '

TERRITORIES.

Alaska—No laws.
Arizona—No laws.
Colorado.—-Laws passed and State Society organized.
Dakota—No laws.
Idaﬁ0.———No laws.
Indian—No laws.
ﬁlonta/nar—No laws.
New Mamba—No laws.
Utah—No laws.
Washington—No laws.
Wyoming—No laws” ,
D. Columbia— lVas/zington.—Laws passedand Society
organized.
CANADA. °
Ottawa.——Society organized.
Montreal.——Two societies organized.
Quaker—Society organized.

 

PROSECUTIONS.

During the past twelve months the Society have pros-
ecuted 561 cases of cruelty to animals, as detailed in the
tabular statement on page ’22. Of these, many were of
'the most heartless character, as the following proves :

THOS. HERNE, for working a poor, old horse before a
loaded dirt cart, in a diseased condition. Fined twenty-
‘ﬁve dollars.

JOHN MCQUIRE, for an atrocious act of cruelty to a
mare, out of revenge to the owner. Three months’ im—
prisonment. '

 




 
 
  
    
   
  
    
   

 

   
 

 

     
 

 

 

 

   

18

JAMES O’HARO, for beating his horse with a heavy
cart-rung. Five days, city prison. '

GEORGE PALMER (a veterinary. surgeon), for abandon-v
ing a sick horse in the street for two days and nights.
Fined twenty-ﬁve dollars.

I

PHILIP GENNER, working a horse with sores under the
harness—second arrest. Five days, city prison.

DAVID M. KEILER, for compelling four horses to
draw three New Haven steam passenger cars, weighing

over ﬁfty tons, from the Forty-second street depot.
Fined twenty dollars. ,

BERNARD KEIRNAN, working a sick horse—third time-
arrested. Ten days’ imprisonment.

PETER HOWARD, for beating an overloaded horse Wi th.
a heavy board over the head and body. Ten days’ im-
prisonment. ' ‘

JOHN COLLINS, for fracturing a horse’s jaw with a
heavy cart-rung. ‘One month’s imprisonment.

The Buffalo Branch of the Society reports the‘follow-—,
ing terrible catalogue of cases prosecuted in one year:

 

Cases ofcruelty of various kinds Overloading, . 6|
prevented by personal inter- Overdriving. . . . . 11
vention, . . . 1000 Underfeeding, . . . 1

Whole N0. of prosecutions, 87' Shooting match, . . 1

Working sick and disabled ani- Exhibition of cock-ﬁghting, 1.
mals, . . . ' ' . 44 Malicious cutting and disa-

Cruelly beating horses, 5 bling of cows, . . 2

Dragging an ox by a rope Dragging cow by the neck, 1.
tied around his leg, . 1 Leaving a cow with a broken

Dog ﬁghting, . . . _ 4 leg on a railroad track four

Leaving poultry on the ground days, . . . .. .. 1
with ,feet tied, . . 1 Carrying calves with legs tied, 1;

Failing to provide proper food Drawing a sick horse. by a
and shelter for animals, 1 chain around the neck for 2.

Pouring boiling tar on a dog, 1 ‘blocks, . ~ .' L
A car-driver for driving into a Mutilating a dog, . . .. 1.
ﬂock of sheep, 1 ~' Keeping cows in ﬁlthy stable, 1‘

Using a horse with a broken
eg, . .

 

 

  

 




    

 

    

m!

‘br

19

The Agents of our Society have also investigated over
one thousand reported cases, and, although the offenders.
have not been arrested, the evils complained of have
been remedied. Great trouble is occasioned by citizens
sending anonymous complaints to the Society, and many
acts of gross cruelty go unpunished for the want of more
deﬁnite information. A largenumber of cases have
been abandoned owing to the unwillingness of witnesses.
to come forward at the trials. Numerous premeditated
dog and cock-ﬁghts in New York, Brooklyn, and West»:
chester, have been broken up, andthe ruﬁians dispersed
before they had commenced their pastime; 753 sick,_..
lame and disabled horses have been ordered out of har-
ness and sent home to their stables in New York City
and Brooklyn alone, and during the prevalence of the
horse disease hundreds of the poor suffering creatures
were relieved from work. Poor pedlars and vendors,
unable to pay for advice and medicine were supplied
gratis with both, by the Society and its Veterinary
Surgeons. '

AMBULANCE WORK.

The ambulances of the Society have been called out
on 250 occasions, to remove sick and disabled horses~
from the streets. The life of many a valuable animal
hasbeen saved by means of-‘these useful vehicles, which
are loaned gratis, the owner providing the team. They
are kept in constant readiness at the headquarters of the-

Society.
HORSES DESTROYED.

During the past year the ofﬁcers have destroyed 835
horses in New York and Brooklyn, unﬁt for further use..-
Hundreds of smaller animals have also been mercifully
disposed of.




 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

20

THE HORSE EPIDEMIC.

During the prevalence of the dreadful and fatal
*disease among horses last fall, the Society was placed in
.a difﬁcult position. For days and weeks hardly a single
horse appeared in the streets which was not more or less
affected with the distemper, and the poor beasts were in
.a pitiable condition and manifestly unﬁt for work. Fre-
quent and urgent appeals were made by citizens and the

”press, to ‘the Society to stop the street. railroad com-

panies from working their horses at all, and in some
cases this was done; but where the disease was so
general, it soon became apparent, that in order to
beneﬁt the animals the whole city travel and business

"would have to be stopped. The President decided

on a middle course, and all horses fotmd in a very
bad condition were ordered back to their stables.
Letters were written by the Society to the various rail-
road and stage companies, begging them to suspend
travel on Sundays, thereby aﬁording their suﬂering
.animals rest. Some of the companies complied and
others reduced the number of cars running.

CASES IN ABEYANCE. ,

The following is a list of :cases in which the offenders
have been indicted by the Grand Jury, and will be
‘tried :

John Glannon, car-driver on the Bleecker- street rail-
:road, for working a lame horse. ’ '

Henry P. and W. F. N iebuhr, for dog-ﬁgting.

Samuel T. Warner, Supt. of the Bleecker-street rail—
..road,:for driving a horse with a quittor on the foot.

 

 

    

.\\ \l\\.\\\\l\bl h. t 1’. lNRNQ‘lWIMbl.

  




u 3. .1. .§\

. \s\\\\:‘l.

a: - .\§\\\\.\ ‘

u .
x. “\‘v\\\V¢ 4

x
\
E,

In!

«H mmwmmea

IIIIH.‘uW\v

M H, 1.“.J/ u //.

 

 

 

r ‘\
, .I‘lll“.\‘ A

.‘\

/%e

,
g, '46",—
z , n’
x
N
,

5%; A '
I 1/ I, ‘ :
'7

ﬁ/ [I

/;V _ :
/—
/
[1
'x

Q
,/

‘V

/

’lﬂ/
.','/

r
4/, 1
1) I11

rQ/jl/l

1
‘6’

..4/\I
7/ i
x I ,.

(/t
r

\x‘ l ,l'
l‘ll Ill

51:217.” 3;:

 

 

 

 

 

e".

in a Railroad Stabl

——Scene representing the Suffering Animals

THE EPIZOOTIC OF 1872.

 

 

 




 

21

William Travis, car—driver on the Bleecker Street:
Rrilroad, for driving a horse with a quittor on the foot.

Hugh O’Rorke, carrying calves in a cruel manner.
John Powers, cruelly beating calves.

Andrew VVaunder, knocking out the eye of an ox.
John Deister, aiding and abetting same.

Patrick Hardy, knocking out the eye ofa hOrse.

James E. Dodd, driving a lame horse before a stage-2
of the Broadway and Fourteenth Street. line.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

REooRD OF CASES PROSECUTED BY THE SOCIETY, ITS BRANCHES AND AGENTS, IN EACH YEAR.
' 1866—67 1867—68 1 1868—69 1869—70 1879417187142 1872—73 TOTALS.

 

 

 

 

 

““—

 

 

 

 

 

For cruelly beating Horsvs or
other Animals wi!h WhlpS, clubs

g l
A l 49 l 300
or other weapons, - ‘ - - - 41 04 ’ 50 45 .

_“_4‘____‘ “——

 

 

For carrying Animals in a cruel% 10 8 - - ; . 131
or inhuman manner, - - - - - 3 ‘

For driving lame, sick or dii- _, ‘
lo
abled Horses - - - — . - -

7

A \ a.“

 

 

 

 

 

For overloading or OVel‘dI'lVing
Horses and Mules, - - - - -
_M

For acts of Cruelty to Cattle,
Dogs, Cats, Poultry, etc., - - -
M
For Dog or Cock Fighting, — -

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

For using Bit Burrs or other in-
Struments of torture, - - — - -

 

 

 

 

 

_ F or starving or abandoning
Horses or other Animals, - - - 12
For maliciously mutilatmg and;
wounding Animals with kni ves,etc.l
‘I
Totals, -

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




  

 

 

 

 

 

24

WllSTE or ANIMAL LIFE.

STATISTICS OF THE NEW YORK'RENDERING COMPANY;.

This 'Company, which is under contract with the city“
authorities to remove from the streets all dead horses and:
other animals, as well as meat condemned by the Board

’of Health, furnishes the following statistics of their '
work during the past twelve months. Since. the 1st of:
May, 1872, the Company had received :

Dead Horses . . . 5,130 ‘ Dead Cows . . . 232
Live Horses . . . 986 Dead Dogs . . . 3,027
Farcied Horses . A. 720 Dead Cats . . . 3,324.
Glandered Horses . . 917 Dead Goats . . . 215

137,600 barrels Olfal.

Of the above 2,575 horses died from the epizootic ; 682‘
were destroyed with rotten feet, caused to a great extent.
by traveling through the salted streets during the past
winter 5, many others lost their hoofs by reason of the-
reprehensible practice of throwing nails in the streets;
and 210 were received with broken or fractured limbs.

The following statistics "from the Company of their
business during the prevalence of the late terrible epi-
demic will be found interesting: ’

Between the 25th of October and the 18th of N ovem-~-
ber 1,506 horses were received by the Rendering Com-
pany, at which period 'the disease was at its height. Of'
the total number 246 were received from the car.stables,.
59 from, stage stables, and the balance from private-
stables—a large proportion of the latter being ﬁne truck
or road and carriage horses. Only four mules were re-
ceived. The highest number reached was on the 9th of”
November, when 96 dead horses were received on the-
dock. On the 4th of November 89 were collected...
Owing to the want of horses it was found impossible to»?
collect all the dead animals, and a large number had to
be buried above One Hundreth street. In cutting up»

 

 

  




 

25

and dissecting the animals, a large number of the poor
beasts had all the appearance ofhaving been physicked.
to death. The Rendering Company were at great ex-
pense in fulﬁlling their contract with the city authorities
during this trying period. Their own horses being sick,
they had to hire, at the rate of $20 per day, teams to
send around the city. Six double trucks, six carts, and
two trucks drawn by oxen, were daily at work.

 




, $213011 of tip: guanine gummitm.

“4%

THE Executive Committee of the American Society.
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, offer their
sincere congratulations to the members upon the success-
ful termination of the Bonard Will case. On the 5th of
December, the real estate was formally surrendered-to
the Society, after a detention of two and a half years,
and on the 8th of the present month, the ﬁnal ac-
counting of the receiver was rendered, and a full dis-
charge given by the President as sole executor.

The committee also congratulate the members upon
the acquisition of a handsome and convenient building,
to serve as the headquarters of the Society. The selec-
tion of a building and its adaptation to the require-
ments of the work we are engaged in, were left entirely
to the President, the Committee feeling assured that no
one could more thoroughly appreciate the peculiar
needs of the Society; and the result is, that to-day
the Institution is in possession of a building, which is
unquestionably superior in beauty and utility, to all oth-
ers in existence, employed in the same work. A more
particular description thereof is given in this report,
with illustration. -

CIRCULAR.

With a View to the dissemination of our principles and
practice in the cause of brute protection, the following

 

 




 

    
   
   
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
     

27

letter was addressed by the President to the Governors
of all the States and Territories, and with gratifying re-
sults in many instances:

To HIS EXCELLENCY, GOVERNOR —:

SIR : It is a popular axiom, that the civilization of a people is indicated
by their treatment of the inferior animals. With the decline and fall of
the Greek and Roman Empires, were associated brutal exhibitions, at
which wild animals were made to tear each other to pieces for the amuse-
ment of patiician and plebeian men and women; until at length, the pop-
r.ular taste required a higher sacriﬁce, in the slaughter of man by his
brother man. Amid these cruel and demoralizing spectacles, the glory
and splendor of those States were eXtinguished, never more to be revived .

As with that epoch of the world’s history, so with ours. May not the
present wasted and insigniﬁcant power and inﬂuence of the Spanish
people, be traced to the national indulgence of their barbarous taste for
bull-ﬁghting“! Here at home, too, in free and progressive America, the
seeds of a like decay and dissolution are springing up, to disfigure the
virgin soil of our prosperous Republic ; and the thoughtful and patriotic,
alive to these fatal consequences, are sounding the note of alarm, and or-
ganizing into peaceful bands, throughout the country, with a view to the
enacting of laws, and the creation of societies, Whose purpose is mercy to
Heaven’s inferior creatures, which means mercy to mankind as .Well.

Eighteen States and Territories have already manifested their appreci-
'ation of the l,>eueﬁts of such associations; and I would most earnestly and
respectfully request your Excellency, to institute such measures as will
best facilitate similar humane intentions within your State; and to this
end, would esteem it a privilege, it, when any person or persons may be
discovered Willing to take the initiative, I might be communicated with,
in order to render their task. more easy, through the experience which
this Society is capable of aﬂ'ording.

I have the honor to be your most obedient servant,

HENRY BERGH,
, President.
The Committee cannot forbear to express their deep
regret, at the opposition met with at Albany during the
past session of the Legislature, and the defeat of the bill
presented by the Society.

During the year the Society has lost by death several
generous and distinguished friends. We have been

«— _ v . Acfzr:;.:~:::.: -c .;.;::a. A 44“ v ‘4 v . ~ . A“ v A, A A . r A, . ___u < ""4 :1

 

 




 

 

 

28

called on to lament the decease of Mr. George T. Trim—
ble, one of our Vice-Presidents, and Messrs. John D.
Wolfe and Robert J. Dillon, of the Executive Commit--
tee. ’

The present ambulance of the Society being found to
be insufﬁcient, your Committee ordered a new one to be
built possessing many improvements; at an expense of
eight hundred and ﬁfty dollars.

The Committee do. not feel it necessary for them to
refer to the general werk of the Society, as the report of
the Secretary furnishes it in detail.

 




 

 

 

 

      

III IIIIIIIII'

IE
I

III I

II I
II III III
II I I

III

 

IIII

IIIII

I... I I .II
III IIi;II I [I I

III . II I a
f IIIll I IIIIIIIIIII ‘

I [III IIIIIIIIIIIIIIII I

\ILAy 7°F\
‘I‘IIIMMIII \SABLE

I
I

 

 

I I I: (I. _- _ _
-7 ‘h‘, ..
I ' ;- -_ I- -_y_.-___‘._1"—-
5 -.:* _,,_ .- ._ ":7,
‘ , __>< , _ -
- -.-- _ ‘--.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

III
I

      

 

III-II
III III

IIIIIIIIIIII'

 

III
, QWEI WI "III/1cm;

II
II

I II
_ , I ‘LADIQUARTE I
(ISSIIIE'II, ' , I, $I
. .- IIIIIIIIII— I=___—_II. -

I\\I\I\ ‘\\III I I {I

\
I‘I _‘
/ /
| .I
I I
‘I
1» l

I
I0

I III §
..I- I

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

\ , m. .
@rrasurer 5 $213011.

THE Treasurer reports the income of the Society dur-
ing the year ending 30th April, 1873, including the
balance brought forward from the preceding year, was
$33,130.43. This amount included the proceeds of the
sale ot’$11,000 in U. S. bonds. .

The expenditure during the same period was 3527,-
2.97.18.

This amount included a'payment of twenty thousand
two hundred and ﬁfty dollars on account of the purchase
of the new headquarters of the Society, leaving a balance
of $5,833.25 in hand.

The society had also received by virtue of the real estate
of the late Mr. Bonard, which. was handed over to the
Society in December last, $15,532.35.

It had expended from that amount $7,133.19, leaving
a balance in hand of $8,399.16. '

Total balance in hand 1st May, 1873, $14,232.41.

Liabilities same date $20,000, being the balance of
purchase-money on headquarters.

 

 

 

 




 

 

ESTATE OF LOUIS BONARD.

 

 

 

1873.

To Cash Paid Out. May 1. By Gash Received.

Taxes on Property.... . . . .. . . .. . .. .. . . $1,685 10 Cash received per W.- A. Seaver, Receiver of the

A. H. Campbell, in settlement with him ........ . ..... Estate ......................................... . . $12,279 50

Repairs to Tenement Houses..............._ . . Rents received of Property, less Agent’s Com-

Dr. M. Clymer. allowance as Medical Expert on mission, etc .................................... 3,252 85
ProbateofWill .......... 1,500 00 .

Dr. W. H. Hammond, allowanCe as Medical Expert
on Probate of Will .. . ......................... 1,500 00

Premiums on Insurances of Property ................ 330 00

Sundries, paid A. Turner .................... .. ...... 5 00

37.133 19 ‘
Balance as per Bank Book ............................ 8,399 16

$15,532 35 $15,532 35

——

 

 

 

REPORT OF AUDITING COMMITTEE.
NEW YORK, May 23, 1873.
We, the undersigned, have this day examined the general and the real estate accounts of the American Society for the

Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, as exhibited to us by books and vouchers, and ﬁnd that the same are'correct, and in accordance

therewith.
N. M. BECKWITH,

NATHAN C. ELY. '

 




32

NOMINATIONS.
The report of the Committee on Nominations was
then read :
Having been appointedZa Committee on Nominations,

we have fulﬁlled the dutyg‘imposed on us, and ‘beg leave
to recommend the following ticket for the suffrage of

members.

 

'W. B. DINSMORE,
C. L. TIFFANY,
DANIEL BUTTERFIELD,

Nominating
Committee.

 

May 7,1873.

For President.
Henry Bergh .

For Vice-Presidents.
William H. Aspinwall, John A. Dix,
Henry W. Bellows, Benjamin D. Hicks,
James Brown, John T. Hoffman,
Horace B. Claﬁin, Marshall 0. Roberts,
Peter Cooper, Moses Taylor.

For Executive Committee.

Charles L. Anthony, Charles Lanier,

N. M. Beck“ ith, ' Frank Leslie,

John M. Bixby, Charles H. Marshall,

Thomas C. Doremus, Edward Matthews,

Nathan C. Ely, Royal Phelps,

Eldridge '1‘. Gerry, James Stokes,

Townsend Harris, Alfred Schermerhorn,
Alexander Van Rensselaer.

For Treasurer.
Henry Clews.
For Counsel.
Eldridge T. Gerry. -
For Secretary.
N. P. Hcsack.

For Veterinary Surgeons.
Charles C. Grice, Alex. F. Liautard.

 




 

    

'33

Messrs. Sinclair Tousey and Moses Solomons were
appointed tellers, and the ballot resulted in the gentle-
men recommended by the Committee on Nominations
:being unanimously elected.

T. W. HARTFIELD,

Acting Secretary.

 

After some interesting 'remarks from the Rev. Henry
W. Bellows and Nathan C. Ely, Esq., upon the success
which had attended the efforts of the Society, the for-
mer gentleman proposed the following resolution, which
was seconded by Charles Lanier, Esq., and carried
unanimously :

“ That the President and Executive Committee of the
American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals be, and they are hereby, authorized to ask from
the public'authorities an appropriation of $7 5,000, for
the purpose of erecting ﬁve hundred or more drinking
fountains in the City of New York, in accordance with
a resolution passed some time since by the Common

Council.” .

The presiding ofﬁcer appointed Mr. Nathan C. Ely
and N. M. Beckwith Auditing Committee. '

A motion to adjourn was then made by Mr. Townsend
Harris, and seconded by Mr. James Stokes, and carried,
and the meeting adjourned accordingly.

 

OUR NEW HEADQUARTERS.
Since the drganization of the Society in 1866, its
limited funds have conﬁned it to quarters totally inade-
‘ quate to its necessities. ‘As year after year passed, and
the operations became more extended, the need of suit—
able ofﬁces became more urgent. Several attempts from

 

  

 




34

time to time were made by friends to raise sufﬁcient
funds with which to erect a building for the Occupancy
of the Society worthy of the humane cause in which it
was engaged; but up to the time of the death of the
late Mr. Louis Bonard, the Building Fund had met
reached ten thousand dollars. The muniﬁcent bequest
of that benevolent gentleman placed the Society on a
more solid footing, and to-day it stands possessed of an
elegant building as its new headquarters. It is situated.
on the corner of Fourth Avenue and Twenty-second
street, and is built of brown stone and brick. It is a
four-story English basement house, and was purchased.
by the Society for forty thousand dollars. The ambulan ces
are contained within it; and in point ofconvenience and
elegance, it is doubtless the. ﬁnest ediﬁce owned or em~
ployed in the cause of brute protection.

 

HUMANE DISPOSAL OF VAGRANT DOGS.

The following communication on this subject was ad-
dressed to the Mayor, and by him referred to the Board
of Alderman ; which body, after indulging in much un-
becoming levity, rejected the proffered services of the
Society. '

AMERICAN SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION *
OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS, '

April 5, 1873.

To Hrs HONOR W. F. HAVEMEYER.

DEAR SIR: The season being near when it is supposed that dogs are
most inclined to become rabid. it seems appropriate to take some action in
the matter. With this regard I venture to offer the following suggestions,
to wit: That the City appropriate a lot of ground somewhere on this
island, and erect a small building in the center thereof; to be used for the
temporary conﬁnement and destruction of these animals by the emplOy-
ment of carbonic acid gas, a speedy, merciful and noiseless process. This
building, which need be ofinconsiderable cost, should be provided with
lodgings for the custodian and his family, and, above the feur sides ofthe
wall, or fence which incloses the lot, separate kennels to be provided,
wherein the dogs may be conﬁned pending their recognition and removal

 




    

    

.‘ F.
3);)

by their owners, or failit g in this, when valueless, theit destruction. Te»
effect the removal from the street of these friendless and vagrant crea-
tures, I propose that men go about the City ea11y 111 the morning, followed
either by our ambulance or a special vehicle for that purpose, and that the
dogs be captured by the aid of scoop nets, and then carried to their place
of destination for ﬁnal disposal. I think your Honor will not fail to per-
ceive the superiority of this mode of disposing of this diﬂiculty over the
cruel, demoralizing and imperfect means formerly employed by this City.
Nor, as experience has shown, does the giving of rewards for their de-
livery at a pound accomplish the objett in View; but, on the Contrary,
augments the difﬁculty by increasing their number in proportion to the
premium offered. Through the humane interposition of thisySociety, these
rewards having ceased for several years, it is obvious the number of
vagrant dogs in the streets has greatly diminished. Apart from tle-
apprehension which many citizens feel on this subject, it is undeniable
that the mute and suffering appeals of this friendly creature, so inti-
mate] y alliel to our; race, are a source of a painful regret to every kind-
hearted beholder. This Society, which in order to insure a. merciful death
when necessary, now destroys nearly all the disabled. horses ofthis city
and elsewhere in this State, would willingly undertake to do the same for
the dogs, and take entire charge of the work, free of all remuneration, it"
the city government on its part would provide the premises and reimburse
the Society its actual expenses in employee, an inconsiderable cost. Will
your Honor please favor me with your views on this subject, or, in case-
you should approve of it, lay it before the Common Council, with your"
recommendations.
I have the honor to be yours, etc.,
HENRY BERGH,
President

TRANSPORTATION 0F CATTLE-

The following laws forpreventing cruelty to animals
while in transit on railroads, have been enacted by
Congress during the session just ended :

AN ACT to prevent cruelty to animals while in transit by railroad or‘

other means of transportatlon within the United States.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
States of A merica in Congress assembled, That no railroad company within
the United States whose road forms any part of a line of road over which
cattle, sheep, swine, or other animals, shall be conveyed from one State to

another, or the owners or masters of steam, sailing or other vessels carrv-r

ing or transporting cattle, sheep, swine, or other animals, from one State to

another, shall confine the same in cars, boats, or vessels of any description».

 




tor a longer period than twenty-eight consecutive hours, without unloading
the same for rest, water and feeding, for a period of at least ﬁve consecu-
tive hours, unless prevented from so unloading by storm or other acci—
dental causes. In estimating such conﬁnement, the time during which
the animals have been conﬁned without such rest on connecting roads
from which they are received shall be included, it being the intent of this
act to prohibit their continuous conﬁnement beyond the period of twenty-
‘eight hours, except upon contingencies hereinbefore stated. Animals so
unloaded shall be properly fed and watered during such rest, by the
owner or person having the custody thereof, or in case of his default in
so doing, then by the railroad company or owners or masters of boats or
vessels transpOrting the same, at the expense of said owner or person in
custody thereof; and said company, owners or masters shall in such cases,
have a lien upon such animals for food, care and custody furnished, and
shall not be liable for any detention of such animals authorized by this act.
Any company, owner or custodian of such animals who shall knowingly
and wilfully fail to comply with the provisions of this act shall, for each
and every such failure to comply with the provisions of the act, be liable
for and forfeit and pay a penalty of not less than one hundred nor more
than ﬁve hundred dollars: Provided, howewer, That when animals shall
be carried in cars, boats, or other vessels in which they can and do have

proper food, water, space and opportunity for rest, 'the foregoing provi-
,sions in regard to their being unloadedshall not apply.

SEC. 2. That the penalty created by the ﬁrst section of this act shall be
recovered by civil action in the name of the-United States, in the Circuit
«or District Court of the United States holden within the district where
the violation of this .act may have been committed, or the person or cor-
poration resides or carries on its business; and it shall be the duty of all
United States marshals, their deputies and subordinates, to prosecute all
violations of this act which shall come to their notice or knowledge.

SEC. 3. That any person or c‘m'poration entitled to lien under the.ﬁrst
section of this act may enforce the same by a petition ﬁled in the District
Court of the United States holden within the district where the food, care
and custody shall have been furnished, or the owner or custodian of the
property resides; and said court shall have power to issue all suitable
process for the enforcement of such lien by sale or otherwise, and to com-
pel the payment of all costs, penalties, charges, and expenses of'proceed—
‘ings under this act.

SE9. 4. That this act shall not go into effect until the ﬁrst day of Octo-
iber, eighteen hundred and seventy-three.

 




    

 

, "‘

.y I
.‘f‘ . ‘

SALTING THE STREETS".

This abominable practice on the part of railroad and
omnibus proprietors is still continued, and never to as
great an extent as during the past winter, by which
thousands- of horses have been ruined and the. public
health impaired. A stringent City ordinance exists pro-
hibiting this dangerous custom 3‘ but it has been allowed
to become obsolete. An effort was made by the Society
to eﬂiect the passage of a law by the Legislature this ses-
sion designed to prevent its recurrence; but, although
petitions, signed by thousands of horse owners of New
York and Brooklyn, were presented asking for its enact-
ment, it was killed through the inﬂuence of the above-7
named arbitrary corporations. 1

The following sketches illustrate the destructive re--
sults to the feet: of horses : '

N0.. 1 ..

 

No. 1 shows the natural hoof, with a dotted line marking the “ slush:
iinc,” to which the hoof sinks in the mire.‘

 




m
(D
«I
C
y—r.
no.
:7"
(D
Z
p—d
(3
CD
'1
m
(—9.
C
5

Z
.3
h
:-
H
:2;
O
:9
pg.
CD
w
’3‘
:33.
CD
.1
LE
21
Cl)
'5
CD
9..
B
CD
'5
71)
O
"’5
H
:7"
CD
Cu
G:
33
'11
93
p‘.‘
5“
O
O
._..
m.
z
6"
p...
5
(D
W
”'3
.—4
‘4

C 3? x?“ .3 41:3”
\ “2‘ Ogré 4 .
._ ,...
.~: 2“?“
. Ag 2\ _ ‘ ..
”it:- » ‘
‘1; . ., *1“

.x\\\  ‘: ‘

No. 3 shows the ulceration beg‘nning on the upper part uf'thc hmf’.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Alf}
V Viki/l“,
' ‘ f.
@397

A
._ .I

.“r

No. 5 shows the terrible ravages made by the ulcerations in a hm f"
wlueh has been diseased tor a little time.

I

.,;v".’y;-’/ ‘, A,
It. 731.», .
ﬁll M

No. 6 demonstrates the insidious extension of the ulceration beneath the
exterior of the hoof.

 




 

 

Wk '

2-34.

‘ ‘ 1‘   I k; ‘ V: ‘ ~ : ~ — A ’/A////////{%/// -, A
4" ' ‘ . .M/Izzlll/J‘y / I

' " 1‘ - ‘mW/ll /
ﬂ‘ (4“ ‘ ' ‘ x * »,. ,W // A ,

v ‘5'. A v \’ ‘0" ' H . 4/ /

Mi ’% -' I 5“" -
“4., ¢ 1

X, 7__ .

‘ \ , ‘ . . ‘ '. ‘- q ’ i’ .
v H “ . A . - .r , , »
- > ‘ i “ 4‘.’/" I,~~

3.
{Al

\, u
li//////"‘ A . "

~ -\

_ M—’W’ l a .
A‘,’r~r:,j;’-:L’f,",' 4;. > J
. "///,,,,’,C” ”lit '9 '.
_ ' ‘ , , ' \ Ix/MIQN‘ 4/ ,

_..‘m\

.(4/ '
// [Elli/‘72.."
.ﬁ/Vl (Q/Xg‘ A
‘1 . {I . A, "f?/I,l’l// 4;
* m. uwyaé”;\u'Z%/é%¢¢§:
W15 ’4 w ,', 'Zﬁfﬁ/l/ZZZE:////O/////Aj

’/
a

,’,‘f' " / A ‘f;‘ i / - \\ ,
A?” $71,731 ¢~:////1?Z4/z§lf‘.» ””5 W ’

/;_rH-t. “‘“"_f ;

" W
/ A'

-y£ ”

 

I5

I

g / ﬁA

;:)_:r-°—~« __ -4_.:_-

$222”

’1
0/"
/

’ I
'l {1

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

~"<'?i. Z: .‘
~~A~

I
ft"

‘ﬂ't "4’_ .
7!

,.;

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

\ .
‘17“

“‘n

ﬂ

I

l

 

 

 

 

ing of Innocent Birds.

ill

dK

o

10D an

lat

tute for- the Muti

i

Subst

PIGEON.—A

THE METAL GYRO-

‘ - .»)_




 

 

41
THE GYRO PIGEON.

A most ingenious substitute in pigeon matches for the
live bird has been invented' and offered for sale by the
agents, Messrs. Schuyler, Hartley & Graham, 20 John
street, New York. The apparatus consists of a ﬁnely
tempered steel counterfeit pigeon and a trap. An in-
closed spring being wound up, the direction set, the
gyro placed on two steel points above the spring, and at
the signal pulled ; the gyro immediately ascends, going
in the desired direction. Sometimes the counterfeit bird
will pass near the ground; at others, describe an ex-
tensive elevated curve, and at others unite all the
eccentric motions of a live pigeon. Every desired
feature ;of pigeon shooting is attained by this means,
Without being guilty of Wantonly butchering a sentient
being. The gyro has on several occasions been tested
by the oﬂicers of this Society, and highly approved of
The accompanying illustrations are from Frank Led/56K
Illustrated Paper.

 

 

 




 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

 

 

 

 

  

42

“ THE ANIMAL KINGDOM."

With the beginning of the present year appeared the
ﬁrst number of THE ANIMAL KINGDOM, a journal‘devoted
to the interests of this Society, and edited by Mr. Geo.
W. ’Johnston. The paper, the ﬁrstof its kind ever pub-
lished in this State, has already met with a warm
welcome from the friends of the cause. In an educa-
tional point of View this periodical can hardly be over-
estimated, and it will prove a valuable accessory to the
Society. Short stories, sketches, and other interesting
miscellaneous matter pertinent to the character of the
paper, will be found in its columns, all tending to ren-
der it a moral and reﬁning family journal.

8

The subscription price of THE ANIMAL KINGDOM is
one dollar a year. Those who desire to take the paper,
can send their subscriptions to this ofﬁce, or to the
ofﬁce of publication, 210 E. 13th street, addressed to the
editor.

TESTIMONIAL T0 MR. GERRY.

THE Society has presented to its Counsel, Mr. Elbridge
’T. Gerry, a silver vase, of which an illustration appears
herewith. It is of massive silver, standing 18 inches
high, and exquisitely designed and executed. Upon
the sides of the pedestal, not appropriated to the inscrip—
tion, are beautiful bas reliefs, one showing the shield

' .of the Society, another a group of horned animals, and

the third, touchingly illustrates, the ﬁdelity and love of
the dog, sleeping on the grave of its master. The in—
habitants of the sea, as well as of earth and air are also
lhappily represented, and the structure, resting as it does,
upon the backs of turtles, is suggestive of one of the
earilest, efforts of the Society in its labors of reform. The

  
  
 

 

  




 

  

43

following is the correspondence resulting from its pre-
sentation :

AMERICAN SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY
TO ANIMALS.
HEAD QUAR'I‘ICRS Fomrrn AVENUE, CORNER or 221) ST. l
NEW YORK, June 15, 1873.
Ell/ridge T. Gerry Esq. .'
DEAR SIR : At a meeting of the Executive Comu‘littee of this Society,
the following resolution was offered and unanimously adOpted :

“i That the President be authorized to cause a suitable testimonial to be
made, expressive of the gratet :l recognition on the part of this Society of
the able and meritorious professional services of Mr. Elbridge T. Gerry,
in the cause to which it is devoted.”

In the perﬂn’mance of this agreeable duty, I have endeavored, while
carrying out the views of the committee, to illustrate through the medium
of a silver vase the chronology and purposes of the Society. One of
its earliest- efforts, as you may remember, was directed to the amelioration
of the treatment of a creature, popularly regarded as one of the lowest
in the order of animated nature, but which the learned Agassiz has de-
clared to be among the most sensitive of animals, namely, the turtle.

Hence upon the backs of four of this race of beings the superstructure
rests, as on a foundation. Upon a quadrilateral pedestal are seen, in
bas—reliet'and otherwise, the several representative orders as classiﬁed by
zoology ; and as a crowning glory to the work, that paragon of animals,
the horse, is shown in high artistic beauty on the basin.

\Vhile thus attempting a brief description of the token offered, the
committee would not withhold its commendation of the taste and skill
which the house of Messrs. Tiffany & Co. have manifested in the
execution of it. There but remains for me to ask you, in the name of the
Society I represent, to accept it as an expression of its appreciation 0f

your eminent attainments and devotion to the humane and civilizing
labor it has in charge. I have the honor to be yours, '

HENRY BERGH, President.

Henry Bergh Esq., President:

DEAR SIR: The slight professional aid I may have hitherto rendered
this Society was to me a matter of pleasure rather than of duty. The
cause embodied in it, and impersonated by yourself, so commends itself
.to every right-thinking person .in the community that its own humanity

 

 

 

 

  




 
  

 

 

 

  

44

 
   

  

has always been its strongest plea. The numerous decisions in its favor
in the legal tribunals are simply the result of just applications of law in
response to its claims for mercy to the defenseless brute. Indeed, they
seem to illustrate the uprightness of the judiciary'rather than the ability
of the counsel, for the weakest advocate becomes necessarily able when
pleading for a cause so just and righteous. The superb gift of the Society
I shall ever prize and value. Its design, which so admirably illustrates
the work of the institution, is- a speaking tribute to the artistic mind which
planned it, while its execution is certainly a marvel of art and beauty.
I beg you will convey to the Executive Committee of the Society my full
appreciation of this elegant compliment, and of their very ﬂattering
resolution which accompanied it. '
With great respect, etc. ,

 
       
    
   
  
 
 
 
   
   
   
    

ELBRIDGE T. GERRY.
NEW YORK, June 16, 1873. '

,7,
M4

.1

./ J)

”'7.

k ' 41
/'
gig:

g."
7/!»

A ”7""
mngmu’ﬁ:

L“ l'llOllESC'itlilig‘

{ﬁt /

unals

. J

— ”N " mm 7‘
" YROFESS‘
2 gEM—“lls w ._ 14”,”,
éﬂicAustwaetb/
21”“ 41"“.

 

  
    

 
  
 
 

    
 

     

  

«L llll‘l ll llllll ll

 

 

llll
@—

 
  
 

. A._L; 71 ;, LI
IL [III In.“

.,'—
I
t
l
l




  

 

 

 

 

 

46-

 
  
 
  

WOMEN’S BRANCH, BUFFALO.
Organized, 1871.

MRS. H. SEYMOUR, President. MRSJ. C. LORD,Vice-Presi.den13
MRS. I. H. YERKES, Secretary. MISS L. LORD, 2d Vice-Pres1denst

MISS H. L. HAYES, Treasurer. -_ '

   
  
 

FISHKILL BRANCH, FISHKILL, N. Y.
Organized August, 1869.

' J. HOWLAND, President. ' J. HERVEYCOOK,Secretary.
HORATIO N. SWIFT, Treasurer.

 

 

' FLUSHING BRANCH.
’ 07"ganized, 1872.
ISAAC BLOODGOOD, President. I BENJ. VV. DOVVNING, Secretary

LADIES’ AUXILIARY BRANCH, FLUSHING-

MRS. MARY PELL, President. MRS. C. MYER, Vice-President.
MRS. I. C. HICKS. Secretary, MRS. C. HUNTSMAN, “
MRS. E. H. PARSONS, Treasurer. MISS A. L. HICKS, “

KINGSTON.
List of Oﬁcers no! received.

AUBURN.
List of Qﬁicers not received.

POUGHKEEPSIE BRANCH.

H. L. YOUNG, President. 0. D. M. BAKER, Cor. Sec’y.
HENRY V. PELTON, Rec. Sec’y. H. C. SMITH, Treasurer.

SING SING BRANCH.
Organized, 1872.

ISAAC B. NOXON, President AARON YOUNG, Vice-President.
Z. O. INSLEE, Secretary. S. M. SHERWOOD, Treasurer.

:MISS DUSENBERRY, Cor. Secretary.

  




c m ' ﬁli' knagﬁyﬁmt‘u .y ﬁtﬁh‘rkiﬁjﬂin

 

 

47

CONNECTICUT.

Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Organized at Ifartford, 1873.
R. S. ELY. President. I HON. E. H. HYDE, lst Vice-Pres.
HUN. U. A. FAY. I llUNXl‘l. C. BECK‘VITH,
2d Vice—President. 3d Vice—President

CALIFORNIA.

San Francisco Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals.
Organized, 1871.
HENRY GIBBONS. M.D..Pres’t. JAS. S. HUTCHINSON, Treas.

JACOB Z. DAVIS. Vice-l’rosident. N. HUNTER, Recording Sec’y.
.JOS. A. VVOODSON, Correslmnding Secretary.

PETALUMA, CAL.
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Organized at Petaluma.

J. SNOW .............................................. Secretary.
.CANADA.
Metropolitan Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals.

Organized at Otiawa, 1871;

E. MARTINEAU, H. J. M‘LARDY,
President. Secretary and Treasurer.
. MONTREAL.
The Canadian Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals.
Organized at Montreal, 1869.
WILLIAM VVORKMAN, F. MACKENZIE,

President. Secretary and Treasurer.

  

 

 

 

  

 
   
    
   
  
    
 
  
    
  
 
  
    




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

  

48

Ladies’ Humane Education Committee of above‘Society:

 

MRSL ANDREW ALLAN, .MRS. G. W. SIMPSON, . ‘
President; . Vice-PreSIdem.
MISS A. MCCORD, Secretary and Treasurer.

   
       
 
  
 

  

QUEBEC.

Quebec Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

 
   
   
 
   
  
 
 
 

Organized, 1870.

ROBERT HAMILTON, President. I \V. J. MACADAMS, Secretary.
W. HOSSACK, Treasurer.

 

COLORADO TERRITORY. I
Colorado Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Organized at Denver, 1872.

DAVID A. CHEVER, President. HYATT HUSSEY, Treasurer.
VVILBUR C. LOTHROP, Secretary.

 

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

WASHINGTON, D. C.
Organized April, 1870.

 

S, Treasurer.

THEODORE F. GATCHEL, Pres. I A. S. SOLOMON

   

——

GEORGIA.

Organized at Augusta, 1873.

       

JAMES W. DAVIES, Pres. SAMUEL DUTCHER, See and Counsel.
B. BENSON, Treasurer. '

  
   
  




  

49

ILLINOIS.

Illinois Humane Society.
Organized at C/Licago,-187l.

EDWIN L. BRO‘VN, President I W. H. SHARP, Secretary.
SAMUEL T. ATWATER, Treasurer.

IOWA.

Scott County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
' Animals.

R. MCINTOSH, President. I G. E. HUBBELL, Secretary.

——.——-—

INDIANA.
INDIANAPOLIS.

(Ordinances to prevent Cruelty to Animals passed Dece1nl.>er, 1863.)

KENTUCKY.

 

Kentucky Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Organized at Louisville, 1873. .

,B. F. AVERY, President | \V. C. KENNEDY, Treasurer.
‘ W. F. REYNOLDS, JR., Secretary.

' .____..__

MASSACHUSETTS.

Organized at Boston.

Massachusetts Society 'for the Prevention of Cruelty to'
Animals.
~GEORGE T. ANGELL, President. I FRANK B. FAY, Secretary.
HENRY SAUI‘ONSTALL, Treasurer.

  
 

     
   
 

W

 

 

    

 

    
    

  

  




  

 

 

 

 

  

 

 

 

5O

BRANCHES OF THE MASSACHUSETTS SOCIETY.
Tannton (Mass.) Humane Society.
Organized, 1871.
SAMUEL L. CROCKER, Pres. I WILLIAM MASON, Vice-Pres-

Executive Committee.

SAMUEL L. CROCKER, EDMUND W. PORTER,
DANIEL L. MITCHELL, JOHN H. CHURCH

GEORGE M. HAMLEN, Sec. NATHAN H. SKINNER, Treas. '

 

Newburyport (Mass.) and Vicinity Society.

Organized, 1871.

'.E S. MOSELEY, Piesident.
Thirty Vice- Presidents.
JOSEPH MAY, Secretary.

G- W.. CLARK, Treasurer.
City Marshal for the time being,
Agent.

 

Haveiihill (Mass.) Society.

Organized, 1871.

SPENCER, President. IMRS. G. W. GEARY, Secretary.
C. D. HUNKING, Tieasnrer.

REV. W. H.

 

IVIAINE.

Bangor Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals-

J. D. WARREN, President. I T. Gr. SI‘ICKNEY, Treasurer.
O H. INGALLS, Secretary. ‘

Portland (Me) Society for thePrevention of Cruelty to
Animals.

 

Organized, 1872.

WOODBURYS S.DANA, Pres. JOSEPH W. SYMONDS, Treas.
STANLEY '1‘. PULLEN, Sec. MRS. L. D. M. SWEAT, C.01 Sec.

 

 
   

 

 

 

   




  

51

MARYLAND.

Maryland Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals‘
Organized at Baltimore, 1869.

WILLIAM WOODWARD, Pres. | 'r. H. BELT JR., Secretary.
JOSEPH GEEGAN, JR., 'I‘reasurer.

MINNESOTA.
Minnesota Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Organized at S/. Paul, Jfarc/L, 1870.

F. DE (‘Olh ESQ, President. \V. R. MARSHALL, Vice-President.
E. \V. CHASE, Secretary. \V. L. \VII.S()N, 'l‘reasurer.

 

MICHIGAN .
Michigan Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Organized at Detroii, 1870.
GOVERNOR H. P. BALDWIN, DAVID PRESTON, Treasurer.

President. MOSES \V. FIELD, Cor. Sec.
E. W. MEDDAUGH, Rec. Secretary.

 

 

MISSOURI.
Humane Society of Missouri.
Organized at St. Louis, 1870.

HON. GEORGE PARTRIDGE, ‘V. H. MAURICE. Treasurer.
President. P. G. FERGUSON, Secretary.

__-_—._.

N E W J ERSE Y.
New Jersey Society for the;Prevention ofCruelty to Animals.
Organized at Newark, A m; 21, 1869.

MOSES BIGELOVV. President. AARON M. RING, Treasurer.
R. WATSON GILDER. Secretary. F. W. LEONARD, Attorney.

 

 

  

    




‘\

 

 

 

 

52

JERSEY CITY...

Hudson County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
' Animals.

J. J. YOULIN, M. 'D., President. S. H. SMITH, Vice—President.
WV. H. MUIRHEAD, Secretary. DANIEL .McLEOD, Treasurer.
C. S. SEE, Assistant Sec. - J. F. MCGEE, Counsel.

TRENTON, NEW JERSEY.

Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Organized, 1-873.

REV. J. .0. BROWN, President. EZRA B. FULLER, Treasurer.
LEWIS PARKER, JR., Sec. .F. KINGMAN, Counsel.

PATERSON, NEW JERSEY.
Passaic *County Society for the Prevention of Crueltyr 130
Animals.

Organized, 1873.

REV. F. .BANVARD, President.

NEW HAMPSHIRE.

Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Organized at Portsmouth, 18.72.

ALBERT R. HATCH, President. 1 A. P. STEVENS, Secretary.

BOYS’ SOCIETY, PORTSMOUTH, N. H.
Organized December, 1872.

J B. TIFFANY, President. F. Cr. BUSH, and P. LAMPREY,

W. MOORE, Recording Sec. Vice-Presidents.
H. B. KENT, Cor. See. I W. F. STEARNS, Treasurer.

 

 




  

 

 

 

 

 

 

54c

 
   
 

PENNSYLVANIA.

Pennsylvania Society for the Prevention of ~ Cruelty to
Animals.

  

 
    

  

DR. A. L. ELWYN, President. I P. E. CHASE, Secretary.
ROB’T R. CORSON, Treasurer.

    
 

Ladies’ Pennsylvania Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals. >

   
  

MRS. CAROLINE E. WHITE, sts s. L. BALDWIN,

President. Cor. Secretary.
MISS ELIZABETH MORRIS, I MISS JACOBS, Treasurer.

Rec. Secretary.

LANCASTER, PENN.
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Organized at Lancaster, 1872.

JOHN B. WARFEL, President. I G. W. REICHENBACH, Sec.
AMOS S. HENDERSON, Treasurer.

YORK C0., (PENN) SOCIETY.
Organized N07). 28, 1872.

 

REV. WM. BAUM, D. D.,Pres. I J. C. LUITWIELER, Secretary.

—*—

RHODE ISLAND. '-

PROVIDENCE.
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

 

HON. G. L. CLARKE, President. N. A FISHER,
JOHN W. AN GELL, Treasurer. I General Agent and Sec’y.

WILLIAM LLOYD BOWERS,

Prosecuting Agent.

 

 
 
  




 

55.

LADIES, AUXILIARY SOCIETY, PROVIDENCE.

Organized Jam, 1872.

MRS. WM. A. ROBINSON, MRs. ALBERT DAILEY, MRS.
President. SYLVESTER TAYLOR,’

MRS. STEPHEN ATVVATER, Vice-Presidents.
' Secretary. MIss MARY A. ROBINSON, Treas.

 

 

TEXAS.

The Galveston Agricultural, Horticultural and Industrial
Association.

Organized July, 1871. '

Is mnpowered by the Legislature of the State, to prevent Cruelty to
domestic and other Animals, an'l its ofﬁcers and members are authorized
to arrest oﬂ'enders and bringr them before the courts of law.

PHILIP C. TUCKER, President. N. B. YARD. Treasurer.
M. HOBBY, Actuary. WM. T. AUSTIN, Sr., Secretary. .

 

TENNESSEE.
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Organized at Nashville, I871.
(List of Ofﬁcers not received.)

VIRGINIA. '
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

WATERFORD.
| 001.. s. E. CHAMBERLAIN, Treas.

 

W. WILLIAMS, President.
PROF. E. H. WALKER, Secretary.

WEST VIRGINIA.

Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals in course of organiza-

tion at Charleston.

 

   




  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

%

AGENTS

—————-4»++<.—_—————-

  
 

 

List of Agents of the American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty ton
Animals in the State of New York.

  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

ANDREWS, S. N .................... . .Little. Falls, Herkimer Co.

ALLIS, A. G .......................... Syracuse, Onondaga CO.

AVERY, WILLIAM ................... Highland Falls, Orange CO.

BEVINS, S. H ............. , ......... ,.Bollon, Warren Co.

BLAKE, CHARLES ........ ‘ ........... Hudson, Columbia Co.

BOYD, S. - . . . - - - _ - - - _ - - . - - -. .......... New Rochelle, W’chester Co.

BUCKLEY, WADE ................... Port J ervis,. Orange Co.

BRITTON, ALONZO ................... Rochester, Monroe Co.

BARRETT, E. G. - ., ............. ‘ ...... Bedford Station, W’chester CO!»

BROWN, WILLIAM ...... ' ............ R ochester, N. Y.

CAW; 13- J ............................. Schenectady, Sch’tady CO. ‘
CHAPIN, Gr. B- - . . - _ _ . - . .............. Ogdensburg, St. L’rence CO- :
CHUMASEN, J. (3..-. -. - -. --; ..... Rochester, Monroe Co. i
CLAY; HALL H ..................... ‘_ .Little Falls, HerkimerCo. ‘
CORNELL, II. K ...................... Greenwich, Washington 00- ‘ j
CROWLEY, F ............. - ........... Tompkinsville, Richmond Cor ' ‘
CARLEY, J , G ________________________ Schenectady, Schenectady 00'

FISKE, E. B .......................... Perry, Wyoming CO.

FOWLER, NEHEMIAH ............... Newburgh, Orange 00-

FLINT, CLEMENT, M. D ............. Sand Lake, N. Y-

GRIFFITH, L. E . - - - - . . . .- - - - . - . . . . . . . . Troy, Rensselaer Co.

GILBERT, DANIEL - - . . . ................ Saratoga Springs, Saratoga Co:

HARRISON, R. F ................ i ...... Canton, St. Lawrence 00..

HINRICHS, J ......................... Jamaica, Queens Co.

HILDRETH, J. F ..................... Brooklyn, Kings Co.

JONES, W. F ......................... Cohoes, Albany Co. {
KEMBLE, GEORGE. .................. Grove St., N. Y. City. ' "
KINNEY, JAMES ..................... Brooklyn, Kings Co.

LAWRENCE, ALFRED ............... Tarrytown, W’chester Cm. . 7’
LATHROP, J .......................... Kinderhook, Columbia Co. .
LEWIS, WILLIAM ................... Astoria, Queens Co.
MILLER, A. J ........................ Brewster Station, Putnam Cm '
MILLER, JOHN ....................... East New York, Kings Co.
MILLER, J. DEWITT ................. Fort Edward, Wauhington Co-
MORTIMER, C. J ...................... 33 Barclay St. N. Y. City.
NOTEWARE, NORMAN W ............ Chappaqua, Westchester CO.
O’BRIEN, JAMES--.-' ................ Kingston, Ulster Co. '
PARKHURST, I. F ....... .”_' ........... Bath, Steuben Co.

  

 




 

 

 

  

5'7

POTTER, JOHN F. .- . . . . . . - - - . .. . . - . Greenw’h ItonW’ks ,OrangeCo.
PHILIPS, A. J ....................... Brooklyn, Kings Co.
PILSON, GEORGE. . . . . . . . . . . .Yonkers, Westchester Co.
RUTSER, \V. H. . . . . . . - . - - . . . . .31 COrtlandtv St. N. Y. City.
RIC H, ALDEMAH W ..... i ............ Valley Stream, Queens Co.
SMITH, WALTER MC ................ Jamaica, Queens Co.
SMITH, D. C ........................ Brooklyn, Kings C0.
STEPHENS, I). B ..................... White Plains, Westehester Co.
SNEDEN, R. K . _ -'. . . . . ._ _ - ., .......... Spring Valley, Rockland Co.
SMITH, H. W ......................... Castile, Wyoming Co.
STACY, GEORGE ....................... Nanuet, Rockland CO.
STEVENS, A. L ............... - ........ Troy, Rensselaer Co.
SPENCER, JOSHUA 0.. . - . . . . . - - - . . - . \Vestchester Co.
'I‘.~\Y LOR, H. A . _ . . . . . . .. - - - . .- . - - . Malone, Franklin Co.
'I‘OELL, JOHN ........................ New Lots, Kings Co.
TILLINGHAST, JOHN ................ Utica, Ondda CO.
TOLTON, I. C ........................ Cold Springs, Suffolk Co.
VAN VOLKINLIGH. C. M...., ........ Kinderlnok, Columbia Co.
VVOOLSEY, C. M lil'iCH ............... Milton, Ulster Co.
WHEELER, LAWRENCE w ......... Washington av., Mori‘isania.
_,_.-_,_ . , .,___~

DONATIONS OF BOOKS, PAMPHLETS AND NEWS"
PAPERS.

New York Sunday Dispatch.

New York Round Table and Citizen.

Wilkes’ Spirit or the Times.

Frank Leslie’s Illustrated Weekly.

Scottish American.

The Nation.

The Daily Brooklyn Union.

The Daily Brooklyn Times.

The Home Jwrnal.
The Turf, Field and Farm.
The Anglo—American.
The Christian Weekly.
VVebster’s Elegant Illustrated Dictionary, 1871. Donated

.by the Publishers, Messrs. G. & C. Merriam, of

Springﬁeld, Mass, to the President.

 

   

 




  

 

 

5'8

  

Laws of New Ymk State, 1867, j 1868, 1869. H6 vols.
Donated by H. Nelson, Esq., Secretary of State of
New York State. ,

Agricultural Reports, 1867, 1868. Donated by H. Cap-

’ ron, Esq., Commissioner of Agriculture, W’ashington,
D. C.

Report of the Iowa Agricultural Society, 1867. Donated
by J. M. Schaﬁ'er, Secretary of the Society.

Report of the Pennsylvania Society, Philadelphia.

Laws of the Geneva Societyﬁor the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals.

' Report of the Canadian Society for

, Report of Texas Cattle Disease. Donated by Dr. E.
Harl 1s

Report ()1 the Society for the Prex ent1on of C1 nelty to
Animals at the Hague, Holland.

Report of the Metropolitan Board of Health, 1868 Pre-

' sented by the Board.

Bulletins de la Societe Protectrice des Animanx. Paris
Mai, 1869, to Mai, 1871.

Bulletins de la Societe Protectrice des Anhnanx. ' Brux»
elles, Mai 1869, to Mai, 1871.

Report of the Beard of Commissioners of Central Park,
1868. Donated by the Board.

Report of the Scottish Society for 1870.

- The Animal World, a monthly magazine, published by
the Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals, 'London. .

Manual 01‘. the 0011301 ation of the City of New YOlk.
Donated by John Shannon, Esq., Cle1k Common
Council.

{eports of the New York State Agricultural Society for
1867, 1868. Donated by the Society.

, Sanitary Code of. the Board of Health, 1870.

 
   

 

 




 

 

59.

Practical Horseshoeing, by .G. Fleming, F. R. G. S.
Donated by the Scottish Society for the Prevention
of Cruelty to Animals.

Report of the Glasgow Scottish Society for 1871.

Report of the 'Woman’e Branch of the Pennsylvania
Society, Philadelphia.

Postoﬂice Directory. ,llonated by theU. S. P<1>et~ofﬁce
Department. ‘

Our Dumb Animals. Published I‘nonthly by the Massa-
chusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals, Boston.

The Advertiser’s Hand-limlc. Donated by Messrs. Pet--
tengill & (To.

The Animz’tlk Friend. .l’ubliehed by some members of
the San Francisco Society for the Prevention of Cru-
elty to Annuals.

Report of the Board of Health. .NeW‘York, 1871.

Kentucky Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Ani—
n'ial-s. Annual Report for .1878.

Ohio—Laws of the State of. Presented by \V. A. Knapp,
Adjutant General of the State.

Statutory Crimes ' Bishop on. Presented by Geo. T
Angell, Esq, Boston. .

Striking for the Right. Presented by the Authoress,
Miss Julia A. Eastman.

Reporte of the Proceedings of various Foreign Societim,

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

b()(jfl”l+1'l.‘ Y

i

mention of

nimnls.

INCORPORATED BY THE ”STATE: OF NEW Vukh

SEVENTH A NN UAL Rl€l~’(_)li'l‘.

HEADQUARTERS 01‘ THE SOCIETY,
FOURTH AVENUE, CORNER OF TWENTY-SECOND STREET.

31m 1101:];

 

 

 

 

 

 

("usmxm I’. \Rl)!‘.-\ Ck C().. PRINTER». ‘344 3; O4", Vlsmxtv".‘- A ,. .\'IA \w‘sn.

 




 

AMERICAN SOCIETY

FOR THE

,-

revenﬁon nﬁ QEmeItg to nimalz.

JNCORPORATED BY THE )STATE OF NEW YORK.

 

 

 

 

HEADQUARTERS OF THE SOCIETY,
FOURTH AVENUE, CORNER OF TWENTY-SECOND STREET,
332w ‘Pﬂurk.

 




 

 

 

viii

SE0. 2. The Sixth Section of an act entitled “An Act
to incorporate the American Society for the Prevention
of Cruelty to Animals,” passed April tenth, eighteen
hundred and sixty-six, is hereby amended, and shall read
as follows :

SEC. 6. This Corporation shall be capable of taking,
holding and enjoying any real property by virtue of any
deed, or of any devise contained in any last will of any
person Whomsoever, subject to the provisions of law
relative to devises by last Will. But this Corporation
shall not, in its corporate capacity, hold real estate the
yearly income derived from Which shall exceed the sum
of ﬁfty thousand dollars.

SEC. 3. Nothing in this act contained shall in any

'manner affect the right of any heir or creditor of the

late Louis Bon ard.

SEC. 4. This act shall take eﬁect immediately.

 

 




 

 

 

  

8

the learned and honorable gentleman representing the
principal contestants, Judge John K. Porter.

The antithesis of all this selﬁshness is furnished in the
person of the able gentleman who presides over the legal
interests of the Society,

MR. ELBRIDGE T. GERRY.

To his eminent professional abilities, zeal, perseverance,
and devotion to this God-approving work of defending
the defenseless, the Society and its cause owe a debt in-
appreeiable in dollars. I think that if I had ever been
skeptical of the eternal presence of an overruling Provi-
dence in the affairs of this world, my repeated experi-
ences in the progress of this work would alone sufﬁce to
extinguish all doubt. How often, during its inception
and development, have the dark clouds which lowered
over my path suddenly and most unexpectedly opened’
and the aid and support so coveted, and which rendered
me for the time so despondent, have cleared them away. I
regard this excellent gentleman as a signal manifestation
of that Divine Sovereignty to which I allude. ' Not only
have his prudent and sagacious counsels prevented or
parried harm, but by his eloquent and astute advocacy
of the rights of the Society before the'judicial tribunals
of the State, he has in some instances aﬂirmed its powers,
and preserved to its treasury that material element of
success which, it is my melancholy duty to record, has
prompted so many able yet selﬁsh contestants to en-
deavor to divert from its sacred and humane destination,
to their own personal uses. His skill and industry,
however, were not sufficient to avert a loss of some thirty
thousand dollars to the bequest of Mr. Bonard, all con-
sumed in claims, court charges, and allowances to coun-
sel—with one single exception—for the appreciable ser-

- vice of having stopped the realization of the dead man’s.

holy desire for the space of more than two years!

   
   
  
 
  

  

 

 




   
   
   
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
 
   
  
 
  
  

 

 

 

   

16
Indiana«.+—City of Indianapolis, ordinances passed and

'Eput in force.

‘ Iowa.-——Laws passed and State Society organized.
Kansas.—No laws. .
{Kentucky—Laws passed and State Society organized.
.louisianar-No laws. ’
Mama—Laws passed and two Societies organized.

' Massachusetts.——Laws passed, State Society and three

Branches organized.

Maryland—Laws passed and State Society organized.

Michigan—Laws passed and State Society organized.

Minnesota.——Laws passed and State Society organized.

Mississwypi.—No laws.

Mssoum'.—-Laws passed and State Society organized.

Nehmska.—No laws.

N waders—N o laws.

New I]ampshz'7~e.—Laws passed and two Societies or~
ganized.

New Jersey—Laws passed and four Societies organ-
ized.

New York—Laws passed; State Society and ten

Branches.

North Carolina—Laws passed and State Society or-
ganized.

Ohio—Laws passed and four Societies organized.

Oregon—Laws passed and State Society organized.

Pennsylv(mia.——Laws passed and four Societies organ—
ized.

Rhoda Island—Laws passed and two Societies or
ganized. '

South 0azolina.—-No laws.

Tennessee.-—Laws passed and State Society organized.

Temas.——Laws passed and State Society organized.

Vermont—In correspondence with the American.
Society.

 

 

  




 

23

GENERAL SUMMARY.

Since the formation of the Society in 1866, it has in~
vestigated over ﬁve thousand reported cases. Of these
two thousand and ninety-four have been prosecuted.
The Ambulances of the Society have removed nearly
fifteen hundred horses Which had fallen sick or injured
themselves in the streets. ‘

COCK AND DOG FIGHTS.

These brutal and demoralizing scenes, as before re;
marked, are of very rare occurrence in this city; but the
following is worthy of special notice:

On the 17th of February information reached the So~
ciety that a cock ﬁght. and rat bait was in progress in a
private stable, 230 W. 47th street, owned bya Charles E.
Carman. Superintendent Hartﬁeld and ofﬁcer Evans, of
the Society, immediately visited the place and found a
party of some twenty well~dressed men assembled in a
loft over the stable. All present in the pit were arrested.
Three of the “sports” were found hid away in the feed-
bins. . They were arraigned the next morning before
Justice Bixby at the Yorkville Police Court. His Honor
discharged all ’exccpt the proprietor, Charles E. Carman,
and a man named John Fisher, holding beth for trial.
They were afterward tried at the Court of Special Ses— ‘
sions, before Judges Shandley, Cox and Coulter. Mr.
Henry Bergh prosecuted in person. Carman pleaded
guilty and was ﬁned ﬁfty dollars. Fisher was
acquitted, although it was clearly proved he was
aiding and abetting, and at the time of arrest was
actually engaged in removing the gaﬁs from a dying
"bird. Owing to the frequent and urgent appeals
from the President, the Brooklyn police have arrested.
several gangs of cock—ﬁghters, and many others have
been completely suppressed. '

 




 

 

 

The American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals,

 

in account with‘ Henry Clews, Treasurer. mt.

 

 

To Cash paid out from 132! May, 1872, to 30m April,
1873, inclusive, 1122.:

Salaries in ofﬁce. . . . .. $855 00
Salaries Special Agents . ...... . .. . .. . . .. . . 2,554 00
Rent of New York ofﬁce and cleaning same .. . .. 640 00
Rent ofBrooklyn oﬂice .. . . . . . .. . .
Rewards
Printing Annual Report, etc
Part purchase of house 100 East Twenty-second st. . ..
Purchase of gas ﬁxtures for ditto. . .. . . . ..
Stationery and books. . . . . . ........ . . . . . . . ...........
Shields for Special Agents and State Societies . . .
Rent of ambulance stable for the year ........ . ......
Set of new wheels, repairs, etc., to ambulance. . . .
Horse hire for ambulance. . . . . . . . . . . . . ......
. Painting and repairing hydrants... . . .
Telegrams, express charges, and sundries
Newspapers and pamphlets. . . . ..... . . .
Postage and revenue stamps . . . . .. ..... . ......
Stenographer’s reports of counsel’s arguments .......
Ofﬁce furniture and fuel. . .. .. ... . ..
Picture frames........ ...... .
Traveling expenses of Pres’t and counsel to Albany,

procuring legislation .. ........ ...
Traveling expenses of Special Agents .. .. . . .........
Rents transferred to Estate Account. . .. .. .. ..
Donation to “Animal Kingdom”and cards for schools
Safe for ofﬁce and removing same.... . . . ... . .
Advertisements. .

.......... 00.0-ocol...uu.ono...

......D...

.1000... Ito-.-

Inca...

on...-occ...o

98 50

165 00

15 00

Total expenditures. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .......... ,. . . $27,297 18
Balance in Union Trust Company. $5,793 97

In petty cash drawer. . 39 28 5 833 2.

_._.._—— , o

h... ___..

$33,130 43

.___.—.—. “

......oo-ou-ou... Clan-llﬁoncu'coo'll

 

1872.

Ma 1. B balance—
y 3/ Building fund................. 39,55000
Current expenses.... . . . . . .. 2,143 48
———————$11,693 48
1873.
May 1. By Cash received from lat May, 1872, to 30th Aprzl,
1873, inclusive. 22732.:
Donations ..
Legacy oers. C. J0hnstone......... .. . .....
Yearly memberships. . . . . . . . . ........... ...
F‘ines received. . . . . . . .. ...... . . ..... '
Interest received 011 $9,000 U. S. 5-20 bonds and premium .....
Interest received on $2,000 U. S. 10-40 bonds and premiums.
Interest on deposit from Union Trust Company. . . . . . ..
Proceeds ofthe sale of $9.000 U. S. 5-20 bonds .........
Proceeds of the sale of $2,000 U. S. 10-40 bonds........... .
Rents of house in Madison St. . . . .
Sale of sundry house ﬁxtures. . .. .. .. .

5,408 65

Coho-Dan n-¢.OIUI.¢oo Iva-on...-

$33,180 43

 

 

 

 

 




 

/
w

k .
\f‘ﬁwﬁ
\frf ~
1.

"In ‘ :7‘ .
‘ n, “_4 /
~51? «>~"'mmm 1
“§\ *‘ -, ‘1:

No. 2.~——A shows the anatomical a}.»pearance of the fetlock and hoof. 1
in A shows the upper part of the sensitive lamina, and 2 the horny part.

.B, in No. 2, shows the hoof after the horny part is removed; 6, Within,

shows the sensitive lamina, which ﬁts close to the hoof, and looks like the
inside of a toadstool.

(J, in No. 2, shows the bony part of the hoof, \Without the cover of the .
sensitive lamina.

 

 




    

 

Societies in the United States and Canada. ’

Organized and Originated after the example (3)” 272.6
American Society for the Preventian of Cruelty to
Animals at New York.

 

AA‘
ifr

NEW YORK.

'American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals.

Organized m New York Olly, 1866.
HENRY BERGH, Pres. HENRY CLEWS, Treas.
E. T. GERRY, Counsel. . N. P. HOSACK, 880.

T. W. HARTFI‘ELD, Superintendent.

BREANCLIES
OF THE AMERICAN SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF

ORUELTY TO ANIMALS IN THE STATE OF NEW YORK.

ALBANY BRANCH.
Organized Ifr’ebracn‘y, 1869.
ROBERT LENNOX BANKS, JOHN M. CRAPO,

, President. lst Vice-President.
A. K. RICHARDS, Treasurer.

BUFFALO BRANCH.
Organized April 4, 1867.

:SILAS KINGSLEY, President. I DANIEL D._NASH, Secretary.
'HENRY HOWARD, Treasurer.

 

 

 




   

  

53

NORTH CAROLINA.
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Organized at Newberne, 1871.

GEORGE c. RIXFORD, Pres. l ROBERT c. KEHOE,STreasurer..
JULIUS ASH, Recording Sec’y. [GEORGE W. NASON, Cor. Sec.

OHIO.

Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Organized at Toledo, 1871.

A. '1‘. S’I‘EBBINS, President. [JOHN KAUFMANN, Treasurer..
RALPH H. VVAGGONER, Secretary.

0

CLEVELAND, O‘HI'O'.

Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

 

Organized, 1873.
(List of Ofﬁcers not Received.)

CINCINNATI, OHIO.
(Society now being Organized.)-

COLUMBUS, OHIO.
(Society about being Organized.)

“

OREGON.

Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals...
Organized at Portland, 1872.
W. T. SHANAHAN, Secretary.

(Laws now under consideration by the Legislature.)

%__~:—*_:\-‘L

I

 




 

 
  

 

 

 

 

  

To those Who may feel disposed to donate, by WILL, to
the benevolent objects of this Society, the follow-

ing is submitted as a form :

FORM OF BEQUEST OF PERSONAL PROPERTY.

I give and bequeath unto “ The American Society for
the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals,” a corporation
created by, and existing under the laws of the State of
New York, the sum of ....................... dollars,

to be applied to the uses of said corporation.

FORM or DEVISE OF REAL PROPERTY.

I give and devise unto “The ,American Society for
the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals,” a corporation
created by, and ekisting under the laws of the State of
New York, all (here insert description of pronerty)
TOgether with all the appurtenances, tenements and
hereditaments thereunto belonging or in anyWise'alt)per-

taining. To have and to hold the same unto the said

corporation, its successors and assigns, forever. .

 
    
 
   
  
 
 
  
 

 

 

 




61‘

LIST OF MEMBERS.

 

THOSE MARKED * ARE LIFE MEMBERS.

 

Adams, Miss E., M. D.
Assing, Miss O.
*Aspinwall, William H.
Acton, Thos. C.
Ames, Angelo
*Appleton, I). S.
Aspinwall, Lloyd
American N ews Co.
*Anthony & Hall
Adams, Mrs. A. C.

 

Astoin, F.
' *Arnold, Constable & Co.
1 Alvo1',d M1s. C. 1*.
‘1 - ' Blakslce, H. A.
1' *Brown, James

Brooks, Erastus
Bellows, Rev. Henry W.
Bryant, W'illiam C.
*Belmont, August
Bristed, (J. Astor
*Bergh, HemV
*Bixby, Jolm M.
Belghaus, Albert
*Bootli, Edwin
*Ball, Black & Co.
' *Babcock, Bros. & Co.
Brown, Mrs. Addison
*Bonner, Robert
*Barney, D. N.
Buchanan Perkins & Co
Blodget, Charles F.
Barnard, John T., Jr
Bell, Mis. Gemge
Bedell,.C. V.

 

 

1 Bedell, T.
1 Bennett, L.

Barlow, Mrs. F. C.

1 Bell, Miss K.

‘ Bissell, Wm. H, M. D.
Bartlett, Edw. Gr., M. 1).
Buckley, Wade
Batligate, Chas, \V.
Beckwith, N. M.

Beers, Edwin
Bliss, Archibald M.
:*B1own, Ste“ .11t

1 Cooper, Peter
i Cisco, John J.
*Clews,Hen1y
*Claﬂiri,Ho1a(e B.

; (J 1me1on S. F.

5 Collins, Mrs. C. E

1 Curtis, Mrs. G. W.

; Curtis, Miss E. B.
Clapp, Mrs.

J Can, Walter

l *Colby, Graldnm R.

l7‘Cl1itte11den, S. B. & Co.

Cary, William F.

*Crapo, John M.

l*Corse, Israel

. C01win, W. E

1' Cocheu, F.

I Conkling, F. A.
Coles, Mrs. B. G.
Clift, Smith
Campbell, J olm

 

 

 




  
 

     
   
  
   
 
  
  
   
  
  
  
   
   
  

    

 

 

 

Cogo'eshall, Edwin W.

01111 111', E. D.

*Davis, 0. VV11son

Dix, J111111 A.

Dilks, Georcre VV.
*D11n1z11',1 VV. 1:11111111'
*Di11s1n11i',e 1V. 1:1.
*Dolan. Miss Ellen ,
Deio111.2;e, 11111115.
r1)1.l111111111 11 II 11'e11zo

*Darling Griswold dz (.‘o.
1.17

D01 8111 115, II homas C
Dodfre, VV 111. E.
Dodge: Wm. E. ,Jr.
Deitz, Samuel

*Ely, Nathan C

Ewen, John

E111 en. Miss Caroline

62

   
  
 
   
  
  
   
   
  
    
   
    
  
  
  

.' Grote, Frederick

Harvey, Henry .
Hudson, F. A ‘
Hoffman, John T.
”Hall, A. Oakey
>I‘I’.IIC1{S,IV D.

;*Hicks: Mrs. E. T.

1 H0133, John

3 Hudson, E. D., M. D.

3 *Holland, Alexander
Howland, Meredith

i *Hodwkins, Thomas G.

I Herring, SiIasC.

1 *Hoyts, Sprague dz Co.

‘ Hosack, N. P. -

. Hallgarten'dz Co.

IVI‘IOG, R.1:: CO.

Harris, Townsend

' Harrison, IVIIS. lVIar3

11111111111 L. IL (I., M D. 1*Hadden, 1101111ng

Exton, Miss

*I1ish, Hamilton
Ijargo, William G.
Francis, S W. IV,I. D.
Farrell John

*Baile, Thomas H.
I1re1iel1, Richard
IairbaIiks, Mrs.

Frost, Miss E. R.
l11'otl1i11011a1n, H.

*Grriswold. Geor re
*Gilbert, E. E.
*Grr',ee1 T11111e1 d: 00.
*Garrison dz Allen
*Garner dz Co.

*Groesbeok. David dz. Go.

*Green, John C.
*Gray, Horace
Grote, A. H.
*Giﬁbrd, Mrs. Ellen M.
*Gerry, ElbridgeT.

I Hoaglatid, J.S

5 'Haekle3 , Mr: 2.

Hewett, H. B.

,i Henriq11es,C.A.
Hoffman, Dr.

Herring, S. C.

:*I11gersoll, Mrs. J. II.

;*Jones, John D.
i',*Jaﬁ”1ay, E. S.
Johnson, Rowland
*Johnston, John Ta3lor

1:*Johnston J. B0111 man
1*Je’nk1ns dr Vail .
;*Jackson, G. R. Burnet dz

Co.

5*Jess11p, Morris K.
J aﬂe, Otto

3 Jackson, James

3 K11 1pp, Shepherd
1*Kendall, Opd3 ke dz Go

 




 

Knower, John
Kettell, E. II.
Kapﬁ", S. Ludwig
Kelso, J. 1.

Lowell, Miss C K.
Lovell Mrs. C. R
Longman R.
Ieslie, Leon
*Lenox, James
*Leslie. F1ank
*Lyle, John S.
*Lord, John T,
Ludlow, Edward H.
. *Law, George
LOW, Josah U.
*I.oekwood. Le Grand
*Langley, IV. C. 1%? (‘11.
*Lea, J. 11 J. 'I‘. 15‘: Co.
*Low, Harriman 18’: Co.
*Lm1ier, J. F. D.
Lanier, Charles
Loef’ﬂer. A.
Leslie, II enry
Leslie, Alfred
Livingston, Miss Annie L
*Liautard. A., M. D.
Low, J. 0.
LOW. A. A.
Lowndes, William J.

*Murray, John B.
Morgan, Homer
Mortimer, Richard.
Menike, Mrs. Julia

*Moller, Wm. 1% Sons

*Mndge, E. R.,Sawyer & C

*MeLean, George W.
Morris, Charles D.
*Malshall Charles H.
Martin R iehaid

*Matthews, Edward
Merritt, Anna
Morris, Fordham

l

 

Macy, Josiah II

Mo1ris, Lewis G.
‘2 MeKiriley, James
Mitchell, Samuel
1 *Moulton, Miss
Mintnrn, Mrs. R. B.
. 3; Minturn, Master R. S. '

L *Norrie, Adam -

7‘ Norwood, Carlisle Jr.

. Otto Mme. Antoinette
i:()sgood, M1s. S. S.
II()SaOOd, S. S.
"O Brien, Wm. & John
'*O’Gorman. Richard
' 7 Oothout, William

*Pa1ish, Daniel

{*Paeker, Daniel

1 Park, Joseph, Jr.

' Perry, Oliver II.

i Pe1m1§,l\Irs. O. H.

j Pen}, Myrom

, Phenix, Phillips
P‘11me10y Adams & Co.
Pursel. Geolge II.
§*I’1ll, M1s.Ma1y R.

1, Par.sons W. II & Br.o

l *Phipps, W. H.

1;:Phelps, Royal

, l”"Phelps, Dodge & Co

l Pa1t1idge Leioy C.

I Palmer, Thomas Jr.

0. l *Roberts, Marshall 0. '

3*Roosevelt, C. V. S.

; Roosevelt, J A.

‘ Rosa, D1. W. V. V.

l Roosexelt, Theodore
iiiRobbins, Geo1ge A.

l Reed, Isaac I1.
l*Richardson, Geo. C. & Co.

 

 

 

 

 




  

64

 
    

 
  

Robbins, Chandler ‘ Solomons, Moses

 
    
       
   
     
      
 
 
  
   
  
  
    
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
    
  
     
     
       
     
      
 

 

      
      

Richardson, \Villiam
Rivinius. Charles - Taylor, Moses
Reid Walter Taggart, Robert
. *Tiﬁany, Charles L.
Tilford, John M.
Steele, Edward Gr. , Tousey, Sinclair
Shaw, Mrs. F. G. Townley. D. O. C.
Schenck, Edward :3*TWeed, Wm M.
*Stuart, R. L. & A. *Tilden, S. J.
*Stewart, A. T. . Thorne, Jonathan
Spies, Adam W. Tompkins, E H.
*Sucley,R11tscen 1 Trevend, Mrs.
*Stebbins,IIen1y Gr. ; _
*Spotts & Hawk j Van Schaick, Edwin H.
*Stevens, Pa1 an j‘ Van Rensselaer, Alex. ‘
Sherman, E. T. ' Vanderbilt, Jacob H.
*Stokes, James
*Skinner F. .1: Co. 1*VVolfe, John D
*Stanﬁeld W,ent\101tl1& Co. 1*Webb, Wm. H.
*Spaulding, Hunt & Co. _ *Wintlirop, B. R.
Sands, Samuel S. is"‘Wood, C. B.
*Sween’ey, Peter B. 1 Wells, Henry
*Sherman,W. Watts *VValker, Mls. John
. Shook, Sheiidan Williams, John EaIIe
Singe1 Manufacturing Co. Wheatley, William
Schell, Edw a1d Whetten, W111.
*Schell, Richard *Weston, Mrs. R. W.
*Sq11ie13,E.GeOIge Wright, Stephen M.
Sistare Geowe K., Jr. *Wilson, J. F. M. D.
*Schemer'ThMH W. C. 1 Wallace, M1s 0.1).
SchemerhOI 11 Alh ed | ’L W ard Samuel W. II.
Suydam, D. L ydig *Winslow, Lanierdz Co.
Schieferdecker, C. C. *Weston, R. Warren
Sullivan, Thomas Wells, I’hilip '
Strong, Demas Woodward, G. M.
Solomon, Barnett L. { Weste1v,elt T.
Solomon, Judah II. " Welton, Miss C. J.
Stacy, Ge01ge White, Dr. J. J. P.
Solomon, Isaac S. . Woods, Hon. William
St1auss,Joseph 7; Wagstaff, A.
Smith, E. L. i Young, Miss

  

 




 

 

001111111 251 11 .1111 1102111, {11111.11

00 2.1" 0 .1 A0 1.31101
'00 251 £1111”ng 1111111311:

.501

0:) 3111311111." 01111111113113
0 ). 2111 1111111 «(”1 [13,03

01) X1» 11 1131111113 “mpnpm
01) 731 111101 ”1111313
‘00 05110061 11110(1

'00 :13 ‘3 ‘1111 “3110.311
‘80}, 1,131.11 .1111 11011V 1311191111
'11 W‘ 0 1' ”11011.11
00 07 u0111.1;

 

 

'bs1g1 ‘111111110 '51 000.1011 £11

9

 

 

 

 

‘51111110110‘31 0113, 1110.11 p01001

   

I

'01”) 21;: .10p11111‘3021112dj

'00213111111.1'11101111 151011111313l

9

11011110 “9 SﬁlIIPPI IWPIV

   
 
  
 
 
  
     
   
    
  
  
  
  
 

'01) ~11) .10.§01110.\1011r1‘ 1011,1111

'01) :y 8111100111 1101110111111

'00 39 '0 '1' ‘BAOH
'01) .31 1112111013 ‘0312110
'00 :y ”I 001111311 ‘0111-1r1
'00 .3) 00.111 51000111111
111211 .3) 1C110111111V

'00 31 11131111111311 ‘Axor1
'1111 :3) f ‘11811101103

01) 3) 00110111113 ‘211'011
(1‘u0p110111111)

“If PEI H ZUEUWO

'8 'H ”19310

"10") cSl'BUOG 13(11’1SHOIIL‘L BABY 01 .OUIJIIHOUIB SLIOIJLIQIJJHOO




 

  

During the year the Society has to mourn the
loss of the following Member-s:

. GEORGE DEXTER,

JOSEPH SAMPSON,

J. A. CLARKE,

,THOS. H. FAIL'E,
RICHARD FRENCH,
HORACE GREELEY, '
WILLIAM BLACK,
GEORGE T. TRI'MBLE,
JOHN D. WOLFE,

ROBERT J. DILLON,
JAMES GORDON BENNETT.

  
    
   
   
     
 

    
  

 

 
   
     




 

 

A
Annual Meeting, Report of, 1
Animal Life, Waste of, 9 .
Agents, Work of the, 19
Ambulance Work, 19
Ambulance of the Society, New, 28
Animal Kingdom, The, 42
Albany Branch, 45
Auburn Branch, 46
Agents of the Society, 56

Berg-h, Henry, Address of, 1
Bonard, Estate of Louis; 7, 31
By-Laws, Code of, Amendments, 12
Buffalo Branch, 18
Branch Societies, 45
Buffalo Branches, 45
Bequest of Personal
Form of, 60

C

Charter, V
Charter, Amendment of, vii
Code of By-Laws, Amendments, 12
Canada, Spread ofthe Work in, 17
- Cases in Abeyance, 20
Cook and Dog Fights, 23
Common'Council,33
Cattle Transportation, Law, 35
Connecticut State Society, 47
California State Society, 47
Canadian Societies, 47
Colorado Society, 48
Cleveland (Ohio) Society, 53
Cincinnati (Ohio) Society, 53
Columbus (Ohio) Society, 53
Clatlin, H. B., Esq., Contributions

Collected by, 65

Property,

Dogs, Humane Disposal of Va
grant, 34

Dog Shelter, Proposed, 34

District of Columbia Society, 48

 

CONTENTS“

 

Donation of Books, etc., 57
Dexgse of Real Property, Form of,
6

E.
Epizootic, 9, 20
Ely, Nathan C., 11
Epidemic, the Horse, 20 ‘
Executive Committee’s Report, 26
Estate of Louis Bonard, 31 .
Election of Ofﬁcers, 32

F

Financial Statement, 30, 31
Fountains, 33

Fishkill Branch, 45
Flushing Branch, 45

G
Gerry, Elbridge T., 8 .
Grand J urffCases Indicted by, 20
General Summary, 23
Governors of States, Circular to, 27
Gyro Pigeon, The, 41
Gerry, Elbridge T., 43
Georgia State Society, 48

H

Headquarters of the Society, 11, 33
Humane Work, Spread of the, 15
Horses Destroyed, 19 '
Hydrants, 33

Havemeyer, Mayor, 34

Haverhill (Mass) Society, 50

Injunctions, 9
Illustrations,

Illinois State Society, 49
Iowa State Society, 49
Indiana State Society, 49

J
Jersey City Society, 52

 

 

  




 

 

68

K Q
Kingston Branch, 46 - ' uebec Canada Society 48
Kentucky State Society, 49 Q i ( ) y,

R
Legislation, 3 ' Resolutions, 11
Lecture by the President, Henry Report of Secretary, 14
Bergh, 14 ' ‘ “ Executive Committee, 26

Law Passed by Congress, 35 “ Treasurer, 29
Lancaster (Penn.) Society, 54 ‘ Record ‘ofCases Prosecuted, 22

M 1 Rhode Island Societies, 54
Montreal (Canada) Societies, 47’, 48 ' S

Massachusetts State Societies, 49, 50
Maine State Societies, 50

Maryland State Society, 51
Minnesota State Society, 51
Michigan State Society, 51
hﬁssouri State Society, 51
Members, List of, 61

Secretary’s Report, 14

_ the, 15 _ -
Summary, General, ‘23
Salting the Streets, 37
Streets, Salting the, 37
Societies, State, 45

N Sing Sing Branch, 46
Notice to Subscribers, - T
New York Rendering C0 , Statis-
UC?‘ 0135119; 24 , Territories, Spread of the Work
Nominations, Committee 011, Re- through the, 17
. port, 32 . K Treasurer’s Report, 29 .
Newburyportﬂ (M355) 3901903 90 Transportation of Cattle, 35
New Jersey State‘bocie‘ties, 51 , Testimonial to Mr. Gerry, 4-2
New Hampshire State Societies, 5') Taunton (Mags) Society, 50
North Carohna Soc1ety, 5.3 Trenton, N. J.) Society, 52
o . Texas Society, 55

i ' C'L"
Oﬁicers of the Society, iv Tennessee State Somety, 00
Ottawa (Canada) Society, 47 u

u x 0 r t
Ohm State Society, 03 Union, Spread of the Work through

Oregon State Society, 53 the 15
Obituary Record, 66 "
P v

President’s Address 1 Virginia State Society, 55

t , u, , . i
Prosecutions by the SoCIety, 17, 2'2 2 w
Pioeon Shooting, 41 ; l . .
Potilghkeepsie Branch, 46 I Waste of Animal the1 9,. Q4 .
Pétaluma (Cal) Societv 47 1 West Virgnna State Somety, :5
Portland (Me.) Society/50 i Y
Paterson, N. J. , Society, 52 i ,
Pennsylvania State Society, 54 l

 

York County (Penn.) Society, 54

ILLUSTRATIONS.

The New Ambulance ............. . ............................. .28
The Epizootic—Scene in a Railroad Stable- . - , ................... 20
Testimonial to Mr. Gerry ...................................... 44
Salting the Streets—Eﬂects on Horses’ Feet ...... ‘ ................ 37
The Metal Gyro Pigeon ....... , ................................ 41
Drinking Fountain ........................................ On Cove}:

New Headquarters of the Society ................................ 111

States, Spread of the Work through ,

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




, f" f/

' ‘r': 2““ "
.‘ 07: ,.'.
am v- “v /
”A . .
win/H l — ,
. ,‘IV ,V'
\ ,"“
I ‘k ’ v
J' ’ ‘
‘— \ t“. { I/
N “‘1 ' ’-
‘ \
_ , A 1“, ‘
.
‘
/

1 <,,

l
Jul.“ ‘ I
..,|"\ ,4 ‘4’\ ’

‘ ’ M > ; .. I
. »,.
‘1‘, “Q Hum!" $§§ .
‘ ‘ ‘\\. k 1 \M'M 9 g ‘\
.c \'

5 ,.
\\\<.

a
x", \_

« .\
x . \

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Q55? T

,
‘I I V {V
‘ {MN ,_. "a: ‘L..'..;.;._. ‘ y
.' _ ﬁ‘ﬁ‘wr .
-‘ ,

4252/25}: «76 u . \
. ‘1' , ‘ . \
1.1!“

‘(1/

' 1/1.”. 2*! ‘
4,55%. ' r‘ V,£.‘y \- '|‘

4/
71/2
I: f,

é’k‘ﬁi“
‘ “13$

 

 

/

k‘ ,v‘;—.*'
34‘!" “"

" WWW

, ,”.>ri¢?i?l‘:§>rr.(\ » v
"nmc A. 40173“

....:' v——--4—— .7. ‘
"UNIHI'IEl‘ WW H313 w :1

 




