 

dog’s pitiful whining rose above the
voices as they discussed his plight.

There was no money for veteri—
nary help, but the children refused
to see him suffer or give him up. Al—
though the cost of treatment seemed
prohibitive, the family agreed to
consult the ASPCA Hospital.

When the experienced veterinar—
ian recommended observation and
treatment at the Hospital for a few
days, the family explained they
could never afford it. The sympa—
thetic ASPCA staff assured Chip—
py’s owners that he would be given
the best care possible, and there
would be no charge.

The poor people of New York
know they can depend on the
ASPCA Hospital for kind, sympa—
thetic, expert care of their pets.
These nondescript pets are as dear
to their owners as are the pedigreed
animals of the wealthy, and often
represent the only companionship
and diversion these people have.

The children of the city come with
sick pets sheltered in their arms, in
cartons, in shoe boxes, and, with
tears rolling down their cheeks, pre-
sent their animals for examination.

Those who bring their animals to
the hospital ﬁnd an efﬁcient, well—
trained staflr of doctors and attend—
ants. Those who are able to pay in
full or in part are naturally expected
to do so, but all pets are given
equally expert attention.

A typical patient in the medical
ward was Prince, part collie and part
police. Prince had an incurable heart
condition which comes with old age.

4

An injection of the right drug re—
lieved him temporarily, and Dr.
Leon recommended complete rest.

Prince’s owner came to visit him
during his stay in the ward, and as
he nuzzled against her, she wept and
stroked his back. They have been
together for 12 years, a long time in
the life of a dog, but a short time for
his human companion.

In the kennel next to Prince two
day—old puppies were huddled to—
gether. Harry Klebbe, an attendant
with 21 years of service at the hospi—
tal, looked at his watch and decided
it was time for their feeding. For
24 hours they had been fed milk
every hour with a medicine dropper.
The mother arrived at the hospital
too late to be saved, and the doctors
were doing all they could for the two
remaining puppies. With the right
kind of care, Klebbe predicted, they
would survive. He heated a hot
water bottle and placed it near the
puppies to keep them warm.

Klebbe knows every animal in
his ward; knows their symptoms,
their habits, and idiosyncrasies. He
watches their progress as a private
nurse watches her patient.

In another cage, Scratchy, a nine—
year—old cat, suffered from a brain
condition, but Dr. Lawrence gave
encouraging reports of her progress.

Each of the more than 13,000
animals examined and treated at the
hospital yearly is somebody’s pet.
Each has a place in some person’s
life, and some are valued more
highly than any possession.

-— JANICE PAPRIN




Mews and Barks

SUBWAY SERIES: In a recent im—
partial survey, the mode of travel
chosen most frequently by New
York City dogs was the EMT two
to one.

Two hundred passengers Coney
Island bound on the EMT Sea
Beach express were delayed 10 min—
utes when the motorman jammed on
the brakes and brought the train to
a jolting stop. A gray Spitz cowered
in the center of the tracks ahead of
the 8—car train. Patrolmen made a
lasso of rope and lifted the dog from
the tracks. Suffering from mouth in—
jury and an injured hind leg, it was
taken to the ASPCA’s Butler Street
shelter.

ANOTHER DOG slowed up the
EMT system for an hour and a half
by trotting along the track from
Long Island City to 23rd Street,
Manhattan, and back, while trains
crept at snail’s pace behind her. The
small brown police dog, an expectant
mother, was ﬁnally caught by two
subway employees who ran or rode
behind her the entire distance——
10 miles. After the round trip, she
lapped up some water, ate some of
the employees’ lunch, and tiredly
went along in the ASPCA ambu—

lance to the Jamaica shelter.

LUCKY, a four—year—old fox terrier
took his trip on the IRT’s elevated
line near 177th Street, Bronx. A
Signalman saw Lucky draw sparks

 

Bronx Home News Photo

Frank Treahig emerges from snh‘way
at Southern Blva’. carrying the year—ola’
tiger cat he removed from cah‘way vent
hy entering the emergency exit and
approaching the rnaroonea’ cat hy way
of the catwalk

from a third rail, and fall. Minutes
later, ASPCA’s Frank Treubig dis-
covered him romping unhurt among
gum and chocolate wrappers in a
catch—basin under the tracks.
Treubig, with trains constantly
whizzing past, removed a section of
catwalk between the rails, lowered
himself to the catch—basin and
scooped up Lucky to the cheers of

200 platform spectators.

TELEVISION is a wonderful inven—
(Continned on page 12)

 




The ASPCA Hospital

 

. . . HAVEN FOR PETS

In a small room in one of the discussion was the beloved family
poorer sections of the city, a sad pet, Chippy, who lay in the center of
family convened. The subject under the room, obviously very sick. The

3

 




 

Operating F and: ﬁre Needed

HE ASPCA HAS so long occupied a prominent place in the civic life of
TNew York that many people have come to take it and its humanitarian
services for granted. Its work in behalf of animals is accepted as naturally
as that of the police and ﬁremen. Many erroneously believe its resources
unlimited.

Unfortunately, the exact status of the Society ﬁnances are not generally
understood in spite ofevery effort to present them to the public. The Society
was never “rich.” It has expanded its facilities to meet pressing needs. Its
endowment fund, created through legacies, has been drawn upon to erect a
shelter in each borough, and a well—equipped Animal Hospital.

The income from dues, contributions and investments maintains the
humane work department which investigates all cases of cruelty to animals;
the hospital which does an extensive charity work; an education department
which stimulates a better understanding of animals among children and
adults; an emergency service which rescues injured animals; a horse water—
ing service and other activities.

With increased operating costs the dog license fees fall short by many
thousands of dollars ofproviding sufﬁcient funds to carry out the provisions
of the dog license law and maintain the shelters. All of these items call for a
large current operating fund.

The Society may have operating income and at once. We especially remem—
ber at Christmas the needs of the Animal Hospital. It functions at a loss
because many are unable to pay for the help given their pets. Those who
can are expected to pay, but at least $25,000 must be raised to enable the
Hospital to operate.

We trust that you will wish to have a part in this. May it come with a
Christmas good wish as something apart from your regular contribution or
membership.

 

ANIMAL PROTECTION, published quarterly by the American Society for the Prevention
of Cruelty to Animals. Publication Office, 50 Madison Avenue, New York 10, N. Y.

 

OFFICERS: Pres., John D. Beals, Jr.; V. Pres., Samuel R. Milbank, William Fellowes Morgan,
Jr., Hugh E. Paine; Tram, Robert L. Jones; Sea, William L. Burton; ﬁrst. See, Thomas D.
Hughes; Exec. V. Pres., Sydney H. Coleman.

MANAGERS: John D. Beals, Jr., William E. Buckley, William L. Burton, F. Ambrose Clark,
Sydney H. Coleman, Henry J. Fisher, Wilbur S. Forrest, Thomas D. Hughes, Robert L. Jones,
Alastair B. Martin, Charles G. Meyer, Samuel R. Milbank, William Fellowes Morgan, Jr.,
Newbold Morris, Joseph B. Murray, Hugh E. Paine, W. Ross Proctor, James H. Ripley,
William A. Rockefeller, Harold H. Weekes. ’

Pictures other than those credited are by Warren W. McSpadden
2




 

 

(Oh, for a J'lorse to [Ride

Many people believe that within
ﬁve years there will be no horses in
the streets of New York except a few
police horses and those used by rid—
ing academies. The number of riding
horses is not likely to decrease, for
the desire to ride a horse is inherent
in the minds of most boys and girls,
and once the habit is acquired it be—
comes a life—time hobby. If facilities
were greater and costs were less,
many more would ride.

There are comparatively few pri—
vately owned riding horses and most
of these are boarded at riding acad—
emies. The private stable is a thing
of the past, and the last private so—
cial riding club closed a short time
ago. Two or three schools still spe—
cialize in giving riding lessons in
preference to providing horses for
hire.

The 94 riding academies in New
York City, which stable nearly
2,000 horses, including “boarders,”
range from excellent to a pretty poor
“bad.” They must not be judged,
however, from the physical char—
acter of the buildings alone. In fact,
some academies that rank high in
the care and treatment of their
horses and have a full appreciation
of their opportunity to make skilled
riders cannot ﬁnd ﬁrst—class stables.
Only a few have space for indoor or
outdoor riding rings. Most of the
riding must be on bridle paths.
There are 56. 6 miles of bridle paths

6

within the city, 23 of which are in
the Bronx. In many localities riders
must cross heavy traﬂic going to or
from the stables, with accidents oc—
curring all too frequently.

Riders fall into two general classi—
ﬁcations: First, those who like horses
and take up riding as healthy, out—
door recreation. Second, those who
ride only occasionally, and then for
the excitement and novelty of sitting
on a horse’s back. No doubt Western
ﬁlms, with their long footage show-
ing the cowboy chasing the bad man,
shooting Indians or rounding up
cattle, stimulate this interest.

With a little thought parents can
help their children become good
riders. Several sound rules, however,
should be followed or the youngsters
will quickly become discouraged or
risk serious accident.

The riding academy Should be
visited and the following informa—
tion veriﬁed:

ﬂre chi/dren instructed ahout the
use of the saddle and hrid/e and taught
how to put it on their mount? Bad
falls may follow if the rider does not
know how to tighten a girth or bit a
horse.

Does the academy give instruction
in ridingr either in its own ring or on
the hrid/e path? Until he has learned
how to guide his horse and knows
the rules of the road, no one should
be allowed to take a horse out unless
accompanied by a competent rider.




MAGAZINE OF THE AMERICAN SOCIETY
FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS

RITECI‘IIIN

VOL. 3 NO. 4 HOSPITAL ISSUE WINTER 1949

 




 

Even a phlegmatic animal may be
stampeded and run away or be run
into by careless riders.

Note the condition of the animals in
the stah/e and the manner in which
they are kept. Only academies that
refuse to send out lame, sore or
emaciated horses should be pat—
ronized. Owners who have little
thought for their stock will show
little consideration for the rider.

ﬂn academy that teaches the child
something ahout feeding, watering and
grooming the horse wit! stimulate a
respect for the mount and create a
genuine desire to master the art of
good horsemanship. Although rela—
tively few will develop enough skill
to compete at horse shows, only
riders who acquire good form will

Young riders pace their mounts through the Prospect Park hrid/e paths

 

really experience a joy from riding.

More than 17 years ago the
ASPCA created the Good Hands
class for children under 17. The
winners in the various horse shows
during the year were eligible to com—
pete at the National Horse Show
in Madison Square Garden. More
than one hundred shows held the
Good Hands event for several years
with 70 to 80 youngsters compet—
ing for the coveted honor at the
Garden. Unfortunately, the failure
of horse shows to enforce the So—
ciety’s rule that no horse with a set
tail could be used caused its with—
drawal.

The Society does, however, main—
tain its Horsemanship Class. This is

(Continued on page 12)

 




 

ANIMAL PROTECTIVE SOCIETIES ABROAD

In Morocco

HE ONLY ANIMAL WELFARE SHELTER outside the U. S. ﬂying the Amer-
Tican ﬂag is in Fez, Morocco. In the late 20’s an American woman,
appalled by the cruelty to animals in and about Fez, organized a society
which later became known as the American Fondouk Maintenance Com—
mittee.

All day long the donkeys of Fez trot along under enormous loads of
bamboo cane, charcoal, vegetables, and other burdens. They are frequently
ill-treated, sometimes goaded with instruments which resemble medieval
instruments of torture. The animals grow thin, emaciated, develop sores and
strains unless kept under the closest supervision.

Guy Delon, superintendent of the F ondouk’s shelter, wandering through
the market place and streets of Fez, persuades owners to allow these animals
to come to the donkey hospital, which lies beyond the town, overlooking
the river.

At the Fez shelter last year veterinarians hospitalized 654 animals and
treated 8,309 donkeys, horses, dogs and camels. Representatives visit

(Continued on page 14)

ﬂgenly inspecting poo/e Judd/es at Bué-Mu/zrouk. M inor sores on donkeys treated
on l/ze spot. S erious eases sent to [lie Fondou/e
Fondouk

In Germany

N THE AMERICAN, BRITISH AND FRENCH sectors of Berlin today, the anima
I protective movement, curtailed by the war, is once again being revived,
and is making great strides in the direction of humane education of the
populace.

This was revealed during a recent interview with Dr. Wilhelm Friedrich
Henninger, who was Vice—President of the society for the prevention of
cruelty to animals in Berlin, Germany, for many years. Now a resident of
the U. S., Dr. Henninger is preparing to resume his veterinarian career as
soon as he has qualiﬁed under the laws of the state of New York.

Animal protection work in Germany, Dr. Henninger told us, was started
in Berlin in 1839. By 1929 there were 189 societies throughout the country,
the three largest located in Berlin, Munich and Dresden. These societies
had the support of the public and were adequately ﬁnanced by subscription
and legacies.

Under agreement with the municipality the Berlin Society gathered up
stray, lost and injured animals from the streets and took them to their
shelters for redemption and care. The inspectors were paid half by the
society and half by the municipality. About once a month an auction of
unclaimed animals was held, and proceeds were used to help meet the
soc1ety’s expenses.

The society in Berlin conducted a school for drivers of horses. At intervals
oHicers of the society gave the police instruction in ﬁrst aid to animals.

The society was also very proud of its education program which went into
nearly all the schools. A car transported motion picture equipment and
other materials, while talks on the care of animals were presented to the
children of Berlin by a large corps of volunteer workers.

Nearly 100 years of effort in behalf of animals were suddenly nulliﬁed
when Hitler came to power in 1933. Although it was generally publicized
in this country that he re-codiﬁed the animal protection laws, they had
been formulated, as a matter of fact, by the society before his rise. Hitler
merely signed the laws and took the credit. In 1936 he decreed that the
various local societies would all be amalgamated into one, known as Reichs-
Tierschutz—Bund. Local interest among the individual members began to
wane because it became evident that nothing could be accomplished unless
it was to the aggrandizement of the Nazi party. Jewish people, many of

(Continued on page 14)

9

 




 

 

     
  

ﬂrz‘lzur Gouyrey, CBS radio commen—
luz‘or, received l/zis porcupine éy ex—
press from u Texem fem. Unite/e to
cure for llze unusual pet at his New
Yer/e C ity home, Mr. Godfrey appealed
to Me ﬂSPC/f.

Found wandering about a Bronx
backyard one evening, an opossum
puzzled a housewife and police who
had no idea what it was. ASPCA
men soon identiﬁed it as a marsupial
and took the animal to the Bronx
shelter until it could be released
safely.

***

When a squirrel sneaked into a
swank beauty shop in the Flatbush
section of Brooklyn, 20 housewives,
being coiffeured and lacquered, 10
women manicurists, and 3 male hair
dressers vied with each other in
scrambling to the tops of chairs and
climbing the walls in an uproar that
drew a crowd of 100 outside.

    

10

WILD LIFE
IN
NEW YORK

A manicurist discovered the squir—
rel, screamed and promptly fainted,
whereupon the race was on. ASPCA
Agent Stitzel ultimately cornered
and captured the gray rodent, which
probably came from Prospect Park
in search of lunch crumbs. With
heavily gloved hands, Stitzel re—
moved the intruder, and the process
of beautifying Flatbush women was
resumed.

***

Several hundred cheering specta-
tors from north Bronx watched
Agents Greenbaum and Thornton
collar an elusive raccoon in a three—
hour chase in Reservoir Park.
Perched atop a 50—foot poplar tree,
the little animal curiously watched
Greenbaum climb a 30—foot ladder,
manipulating a 40—foot pole. For an
hour he eluded the noose by jumping
from branch to branch. At last
Greenbaum made the catch. Near—
ing the bottom rungs of the ladder

 

 




 

 

the coon wriggled loose and scam—
pered up another tree.

Four trees and two hours later
Greenbaum patiently maneuvered
his ladder and pole, grabbed the
snarling coon and lowered it to
Thornton. Following a stay at the
Bronx shelter the raccoon was
turned over to the N. Y. Zoological
Society.

***
Working night shift sure does

funny things to a man’s eyes, the
special ofﬁcer on duty in the lobby of
a Western Union Building thought
as he glanced up from his work. It
was 1:35 AM. and he saw a pig
strolling through the door. He
looked again. It was still there. He
yelled for assistance, leaped over his
desk and took possession of the
young porker.

A pig sauntering in off a N. Y. C.
street at such an unlikely hour was
clearly a case for the police, he rea—
soned, and called the nearest station.
Two radio patrolmen took the little
fellow to the stationhouse, where,
like a true specimen of his clan, he
sloppily breakfasted on coffee and
cakes until the ASPCA took over.

*‘k‘k

A large healthy raccoon was re—
ported to the ASPCA by a woman
who saw it slinking around in her
backyard. Her ﬁrst guess was a
large cat. After another glance she
thought it was a skunk and ran for
cover. After a short stay at the
Medical Stray Ward, where he had

the run of the place and’as much
food as he wanted, Ric Rac was
given to the N. Y. State Conserva—
tion Dept. to be released in their
game preserve near BearMountain.

***

One little squirrel took up his
abode in the chimney of an apart—
ment house in the Bronx until
ASPCA agents caught the chimney
sweep and returned him to a natural
habitat in Crotona Park.

In another part of the Bronx,
Agents Greenbaum and Thornton
induced a frightened gray squirrel
to leap from a rolled—up awning of a
grocery store, and released it in St.

Mary’s Park.
* ‘k ‘k

This turkey hen wasfennd on Boston
Road, The Bronx. During her slay
with lhe Society hefere going to a
L. [.fezrin, she [aid at hig egg each day,
which our men relished at hreezhfezsl

 

11

 




 

 

 

The ﬂSPC/i Horsemanship Trophy

OH, FOR A HORSE TO RIDE
(Continuedfrom page 7)

a jumping event, and like the Good
Hands Class, is limited to children
under 17. There were 91 contestants
eligible for the Championship Con—
test at the National Horse Show in
November.

The winner of the ASPCA Horse-
manship Class at the National Horse
Show is awarded a beautiful trophy.
The permanent trophy, donated by
the late Alfred B. Maclay in 1933, is
engraved with the winner’s name
each year.

(In tlze next issue, Afm'mezl Prolectz'on will
deserz'oe t/ze work the ﬂSPC/f does to protect

horses used at riding academies.)

 

A membership in the ASPCA makes a
splendid Christmas present for a friend.

MEWS AND BARKS
(Continuedfrom page 5)

tion, a knowing cat in Brooklyn will
tell you. Stranded in the upper
branches of one of Brooklyn’s taller
trees, Tabby watched an ASPCA
crew attempt to rescue her with use—
lessly short extension ladders and
poles. Assistance opportunely ar—
rived in Mr. Frank Cali’s truck,
loaded with television installation
equipment. His aluminum extension
ladder was placed on the roof of the
ASPCA ambulance. While Agent
Stitzel steadied the base, Hammatt
and Grassick climbed the ladder.
Hammatt shinnied an additional 4
or 5 feet up the tree and Grassick
helped him with the extension pole.
Tabby held her breath. The noose
slipped over her head and she was on
her way to safety in one of the most
courageous rescues yet attempted.

TONY, a black and white tom cat
had been buried under debris at the
bottom of a 20—foot shaft for three
days. Agent Schlesinger and police
descended into the narrow cata—
comb, taking with them several boat
hooks, two ladders, a 75—foot rope,
and a variety of small tools. For over
an hour moldy boards and debris,
pistol belts, jackets, and shirts came
up as the grimy rescuers shed excess
baggage and demanded more tools.
Three hours later Tony and rescuers
breathed fresh air once again.

 

Call Borough office of the ASPCA if you wish to report cases of cruelty or
neglect to animals, or if you desire their removal.

 

 

 

_Aka_v-‘P_h__n

 




 

 

 

 

 

4 ~‘_. v——~»——‘u. _4.__- A4<._‘_.u‘~.__ - a

What Others Think

W e would like to share with our readers a few typical letters of appreciation

for services rendered oy the Society.

“I am ever grateful for all the ﬁne efforts
of the staff and the girls at the Hospital on
Ave. A., to try to save the life of my beloved
Steve.”

“At this time I wish to thank you again for
the puppy which my husband obtained from
you at the shelter in Jamaica. He has turned
out to be an excellent watchdog and a ﬁne
pet.”

“I want to express my thanks and appre—
ciation to your lost and found department for
their good assistance in locating my dog.
Please accept my modest contribution in
grateful appreciation.”

“It was not so simple a task for your serv—
ice man Mr. F. Treubig, for he had to crawl
twice on his stomach in a very difﬁcult posi-
tion in order to rescue mother cat and her
kittens. It was just lucky the cat was not

vicious. Perhaps she was glad to be rescued.
I must say again how willing Mr. Treubig
was to take so much trouble to rescue the
creatures from this dreadful place.”

“This time I want to send a donation in
memory of our Cinders, a wonderful Boston
terrier who passed away in January. It would
have been her twelfth birthday in April. I
hope this small gift will buy a few good meals
for one of your dogs. Some day, perhaps, I
can make it bigger.”

“I realized your true worth when I found
a mangled kitten in my garage. I called you
and within an hour you were here to take the
suffering animal away. Even though we make
our small donations yearly I was moved to
send this extra in appreciation of your great
work.

“Thank you and may there always be
enough funds to keep you near us.”

 

 

PLEASE PASS IT ALONG

When you have read ANIMAL PROTECTION please pass it along to
someone else. Perhaps your doctor, your dentist, or some ofﬁce would
be willing to place it on its reading table.

If people generally recognized how great the Society’s need is for

ﬁnancial help, there would be a more generous response to its appeal.

 

13

 

 




 

 

Animals In the Mines
Mrs. Genevieve W. Mason, a de—

voted ASPCA member, now a resi—
dent of Cincinnati, has undertaken
an important survey of the use of
horses, mules, and ponies in the
mines of this country. While the
larger mines depend upon mechani—
cal haulage, hundreds of small coal
and lead mines report the use of from
two to twenty animals.

While conditions in many mines
are undoubtedly satisfactory, there
is need for regular inspection to pass
on feed, handling, and general work—
ing conditions. Many mines are re—
mote from any humane agency, mak—
ing it necessary to ﬁnd some govern—
ment agency to undertake the in—
spections.

Mrs. Mason plans to give medals
to the three mines in each state that
treat their animals in the most ac—
ceptable manner.

 

IN MEMORIAM

The Society deeply mourns
the loss of JOHN J. JORDAN, a
member of the staff, who died
October 8, 1949. Mr. Jordan
joined the Society on June 1,
1928, and on February 1, 1941,
was placed in charge of the
Board of Health Department
at the Manhattan Shelter. The
Board of Managers and staff
pay tribute to his loyal, out—
standing service and extend

deepest sympathy to his family.

 

 

 

14

ANIMAL PROTECTION IN
MOROCCO

(Continuedfrom page (5’)

stables in Fez and outlying areas and
inspect over 95,000 animals yearly.
The organization has the full co-
operation of the public authorities,
and a great many cases are reported
to the Fondouk by the police.

The ASPCA, from the ﬁrst, gave
encouragement to the society and
helped it incorporate. Its contribu—
tors were largely residents of the
U. 5., though before the war many
were contributing from England and
the continent. During the war when
it was impossible to send money
abroad, the French government ad—
vanced the money necessary for
operating expense. This was re—
funded when it again became pos—
sible to send currency abroad.

Through the inﬂuence of the F on—
douk the natives are giving better
care to their animals, and the num—
ber of cases of severe beating and
sheer cruelty is diminishing.

ANIMAL PROTECTION IN
GERMANY

(Continuedfrom page 9)

whom had been staunch supporters
of the work, were suddenly elimi—
nated from the picture.

Following World War II efforts
were made to revive the societies
which had been forced out of busi—
ness. Of course there were no funds,
but there was an interest that has
been fanned into a quickﬂame, and the
work is now on its way to revival.

 

_.~h__._w._r #- r_. . __ ’—_*—-

 




 

 

 

 

a __ _ h. 4,.“ «4.— A_. ____ r——————-~

 

 

 

@review

HIS ISSUE OF ANIMAL PROTECTION is our usual
Christmas appeal for funds to operate our
present Manhattan Hospital.

However, there is another urgent proiect immedi-
ately ahead of us — the necessity of building a new
Shelter and Hospital to replace the present one at
Avenue A and 24th Street, which the Government
has taken for a Veterans Hospital.

We are organizing a campaign to raise funds for
the new building on a site acquired on York Avenue
between 92nd and 93rd Streets. The Board has
named a special Committee and plans are develop-
ing for a public appeal.

This brief statement is a preview. You will soon
receive details about the campaign.

There is no compromise. There is no choice. We are
forced to construct a new Manhattan Hospital and
Shelter now. That is, if our work among sick and
homeless animals is to be continued — and who
among friends of animals could bear to have it
otherwise?

You can help us raise this amount when the time
comes and we are confident that you will do so.

 

 

15

 

 

 




 

CHRISTMAS FOR THE ANIMALS
A \\\\\' '
.\g§\\\\s;

§
\\ \
\\

a
I
4'/JZZZ

Q

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Drawing by Morgan Dennis

Dear Friend of Animals:
The little fellow pictured here is smiling. Perhaps

he senses that Christmas is near as he sniffs the
goodwill in the air. Or perhaps this is his way of
thanking you who once made a special Christmas gift to
the ASPCA HOSpital.

He has never heard of Santa Claus, so he doesn't
know that at Christmas folks give presents to those
they love. But love itself he understands-n-and proper
care he needs.

Many animal owners who give their pets the love they
require, cannot afford to give them the care they need
when they are hurt or ill. Most can pay little, often
nothing, when they call on us for veterinary aid for
their pets. Last year, for instance, the hospital
costs exceeded contributions by $25,000.

So, at this Holiday Season as you remember your

family and friends, will you remember a Christmas gift
to the ASPCA Hospital?

Yours very sincerely,

WW

President

 




