 

 

 

 

ANIMAL WAYS

 

 

3 The RSPCA magazine for children TEMPLE cox CAPTIVE
l } BOLT SLAUGHTERING
; Price 1d. every month
A year’s subscription costs 23. 6d. (Post paid) GU NS
Specially recommended and used by the RSPCA '
Stories, drawings, puzzles, a prize competition
in each issue, photographs, cartoons. THREE MODELS—ALL SILENT IN
A bright and entertaining magazine. ACTION

 

 

 

 

 

‘UNIVERSAL’ for all animals
‘SMALLS’yfo‘r all-small animals

 

 

216%?)3AY I ‘MARK 6L’_fo_jra|‘l animals. Designed for heavy I

use in large Abattoirs and Freezing Works

Celluloid Buttons

LIST ON APPLICATION

THE UNIVERSAL BUTTON (:0. LTD. . TEMPLE COX DEVELOPMENT CO. LTD
1-9 Birkheck Street, Bethnal Green, LONDON, E.2 HIGH STREET, BROMLEY, KENT

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Telephone: BIShopsgate 5750 Telegrams: ‘Unibutco Edo’

l

 

 

 

 

 

 

Manufacturers of

@WEE‘GDRMS

HOBSON & SONS CAPS HELMETS LEATHER
BELTS POUCHES etc. etc.
(LONDON) LTD

 

 

Gold and Silver Laces

l Embroideries of every

All .. description for ALL
enquiries to

154-164 TOOLEY STREET UNIFORMED SERVICES

LONDON BRIDGE S.E.1 PATTERNS OF CLOTH
and ESTIMATES

Telephone: HOP 2476 (4 lines) will be forwarded free of charge
Telegrams: HOBSON, BOROH, LONDON

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

March 1953 THE ANIMAL WORLD . 33
BRANCH NEWS opened the branch children’s pet show at the British Legion
Hall, Cranbury Place, Southampton. Mrs Goldthorpe acted
as judge. The organizer was Miss M. Morse, who was helped
MAJOR-GENERAL by clinic workers.

SIR EDWARD M Hertfordshire—East Helped by members of the Animal
PER CEV AL ' Defender Group, Mrs E. Parrott, Ware51de auxiliary hon
secretary, raised £27 85. for branch funds. £26 1s. came from

KCB: 050 a sale of work and £1 73. from carol singing.

the very active chair-
man of the Hants
and Surrey Border
Branch, taken on his
9lst birthday. With
him is Lady Perceval,
a vice-president of
the branch. Both take
a keen interest in
branch activities

 

Photo] If [Farnham Herald

Bristol and District Mr Philip W. Hort, branch hon sec, has
sent cuttings from local newspapers describing how a cat
named ‘Music’ was rescued from the spire of St Nicholas
with St Leonard’s Church, Bristol. ‘Music’ was imprisoned
80 feet up inside the spire for at least four days. Three
steeplejacks took four hours to get him down. After vain
attempts by the steeplejacks Inspector Cox suggested setting
a humane cage trap. ‘Music’ was soon caught and lowered
to the ground.

Burton-on-Trent The recognition of the dogged persistence
of the two men, Messrs H. Wood and J. Watkiss, in effecting
the rescue of the ten weeks old golden retriever puppy from a
deep narrow cleft near Brereton Colliery on Cannock Chase
was brought to fruition when a deputation from the branch
went over and formally presented the RSPCA’s Diplomas
to the rescuers. .

It had been intended that the presentations should be made
by the Mayor of Burton at the last annual meeting of the
branch, but the recipients were shy and diffident about being
unexpectedly thrown into the limelight in this manner, and
Mr A. Smith, the manager of the colliery at which the men
are employed, and due to whose exertions and initiative the
rescue operations were set in motion and supervised, sug-
gested that arrangements might be made for the presenta-
tions to take place in the colliery canteen. The deputation
was courteously received by Mr Smith, the manager, and
Mr Lawton, the engineer. The chair was taken by the former.
The branch hon secretary, Mrs M. L. Bird, introduced the
deputation, and gave a short résumé of the humane action
that the Society sought to recognize in this manner, empha-
sizing that these awards were not given lightly, but only after
very careful consideration by the Council of all the facts and
circumstances. Mrs W. N. Payton, deputy chairman of the
branch, then made the presentations. Mrs F. W. Dakin
thanked Mr Smith and Mr Lawton for their courtesy and
hospitality, and referred to the by no means inconspicuous
or negligible part played by them throughout the rescue
operations. Inspector L. J. Jones accompanied the deputa-
tion.

Chesterﬁeld and North Derbyshire Mrs Granger, Dronﬁeld
aux co hon sec, reports that a sale of work raised £7 for
branch funds.

Craven and Upper Wharfedale A coffee morning was given

at Airton, near Skipton, by Mr and Mrs Douglas, branch
co hon secs. Three stalls together with coffee and biscuits
realized a total of £33 65. 8d, for branch funds.
Cumberland—North and East As a result of a special
Christmas effort Mrs Asby, Skelton auxiliary hon secre-l
tary, was able to raise £20 163. 6d. for branch funds.

Enﬁeld and District Miss O. Wilton, leader of the Animal
Defender Group at Winchmore Hill Baptist Sunday School,
reports that the members recently held a successful exhibi-
tion. Coloured pictures and scrap books made from old
Animal Ways were shown.

Hampshire—Southampton and District Mrs B. Poole

Kent——Ashford and District Mr H. A. Crothall, branch
hon secretary, reports that the Christmas competition was a
great success and raised £60 lls. 6d, for branch funds.
Kent—Canterbury and District Mrs Dance, branch hon
secretary, reports that a Christmas whist drive in Canterbury
raised £14 for branch funds.

Loughborough and North Leicestershire Major Pulleine,
branch organizer, addressed the Inner Wheel at Shepshed
on the work of the RSPCA.

Macclesﬁeld, South-East Cheshire and Buxton A whist
drive in aid of branch funds was organized in Broken Cross
School by Mrs Bradley, Miss Cragg and Miss A. M. Wain,
branch hon secretary. '

Miss Lynette and Master Roger Heyworth organized a
coffee party at Canavan, Temple Road, Buxton, and raised
£40 163. 6d. for branch funds. Mrs Heyworth helped.
Merthyr Tydﬁl and District Inspector Watts attended the
presentation to the Rhondda clinic of a cat basket, a dental
scraper and forceps, all of which had been bought by Animal
Defenders at Trealaw Junior School. Mrs Bowen is the
group leader.

Middlesex—North-West Mr R. Soames, branch hon
secretary, reports that Mrs F. J. Clark organized a whist
drive and raised £24 105. for branch funds.
Monmouthshire A dance organized by Mr Ray Lewis at
Skenfrith raised £1] 10s. for branch funds. (Report from
Mr A. Boucher, Abergavenny and District aux hon sec.)
Newcastle-upon-Tyne Mrs Goodall, Berwick auxiliary hon
secretary, attended a ﬁlm show organized by Inspector
Marshall at the 16 Families Hostels, Berwick. A donation of
£3 was made to branch funds.

Narfolk West Miss Ann Lambert, Animal Defender,
organized with the help of her parents and friends a whist
drive and dance in the Church Hall, Magdalens, near Kings
Lynn, and raised £12 33. 6d. for branch funds. Mrs Morrison
presented the prizes.

Branch funds have gained 105. collected in ﬁnes for ‘slips

of the tongue’ at the premises of a Kings Lynn ﬁrm. The
contents of this ‘swear box’ were given to the branch
recently.
Nottingham and Notts The annual general meeting of the
Worksop auxiliary was held at the King Edward VII hotel.
Despite the wintry weather there was a very gratifying attend-
ance, presided over by Her Grace Winifred Duchess of
Portland. Lord Grey de Ruthyn was in the chair and made
an excellent speech. Others present included Mr Hubert
Argles, JP, and Inspector Hodgson, who was publicly
thanked for his outstanding work in the county. The hon
secretary and treasurer (Miss R. E. Bertram) reported a year
of successful effort, both ﬁnancially and in upholding the
ideals of the Society. Collection in the room realised
£5 105. 4d., which was followed by a small sale of gifts. Tea
was then served.

This picture of
Topsy and
Teddy comes
from Miss E.
Dean, Sale,
Manchester

 

 

 




 

 

ANIMAEHEWORL

 

THE OFFICIAL MAGAZINE OF THE RSPCA

Vol XLVIII No 3

’ New Series

MARCH I 953

PRICE THREEPENCE
4s. 6d. per annum. Post paid

S OS — A CRY FROM OVERSEAS

THE OLD METHOD ——

 

TRANSPORT OF POULTRY
Practical reforms obtained by RSPCA Branches
are illustrated in these two pictures. Poultry are

AND THE NEW

 

crushed together in the old type container. The new type, on the. right, gives them more freedom. (Pictures from Nigeria)

When Parliament incorporated the RSPCA they
showed great foresight by making possible afﬁliav
tion with sister societies throughout the world,
so that now societies in the far ends of the earth
have banded with us in the gr'eatcampaign against
cruelty, and this crusade is being waged on behalf
of helpless creatures in New Zealand, the Fiji
Islands, Malta, Malaya, British Guiana and many
other places. I

A far—reaching step was taken in 1947 when, in
the historic setting of the RSPCA’s board room ‘at

 

‘ POULTRY lN TRANSIT

These two views,
Nigerian trains,‘ show the old and

new type containers in use

Jermyn Street, London, the Council’decided to
form its own Branches overseas. Within a few
weeks off that meeting the ﬁrst Branch was
opened at Lagos, Nigeria, and its Honorary
Secretary, Mr E. 0. Daniel, himself a Nigerian,
recently spent six months in this Country study;
ing various aspects of animal protection Work, in .
order to gain firstvhand experience to ﬁt him for,

his task. It is diﬂicult to realize that in Nigeria we
have a country six times the size of England and
Wales, with a population of nearly twenty—five

taken inside

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

RSPCA FLoon RESCUE WOBK I
11,432 animals and birds were rescued by RSP CA Inspectors during the East Coast ﬂoods

Animal World hopes to publish pictures and more details next month. ‘

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

March 1953

 

Rejériﬁted, with acknowledgments, from John
u . . . "

ANIMALS’ FRIEND ON THE RED
DRAGON RUN

by Ronald W. Clark

In lonely villages, the RSPCA mobile clinic.

brings help to pets in trouble.
A tall man in old clothes sidled up to a blue

commercial lorry in a car park on the North,

Wales coast and shyly asked its two uniformed
attendants whether they could help him. When
they nodded, he looked carefully around, delved
into a deep inner pocket, drew from it a'wrig’
gling ferret and, with a . poacher’s caution, ex;
plained that it had a sw‘ollen neck.

‘In fact,’ says Robert Jones, of the two—man
RSPCA North Wales mobile unit, ‘the animal
had obviously been badly bitten by a rat. We
ﬁxed it up all right.’

The unit, which travels more than 500 miles a
week through Caernarvonshire, Denbighshire
and Anglesey, has three jobs, says Mr Jones.
‘We give advice and information on the care of
animals. We give emergency ﬁrstaaid to sick or
injured animals until they can be seen by a vet.
And we provide a humane death for unwanted
or incurable animals.’

Steel traps—usually laid illegally—provide the
unit with much of its work. Mr Jones carries a
Vicious example in his lorry. ‘We picked that
up on a lonely stretch of road on our Anglesey
run. There was a dog on the end of it.’

‘Asking for First—aid’

With a leg hopelessly caught in the steel fangs
of the trap, the dog had pulled until the foot

THE ANIMAL WORLD 35

At Bottwnnog, Mr R. jones (right) and
Mr ]. Myers, North Wales Unit oﬁiciais,

, examine pets

Picture] {Courtesy of john Bull

long metal had been ripped from the ground, and
had then limped on to the nearest road. ‘Luckily
we arrived a few minutes later. The dog came up
to us, meek and mild, just as though it was asking
for ﬁrst aid. We got the trap off, bandaged the
leg, and later traced the dog’s owner. A fortnight
afterwards, when we .saw it again, it was well on
the mend.’

, First aid for dogs and cats forms a big percent .
age of the 1,500 cases that Mr Jones and his
colleague John Myers deal with every year on the
six routes which they run through North Wales
with the ‘Red Dragon’ van. Their vehicle is known
by this name in scores of lonely villages because
ofd the Red Dragon of Wales emblazoned on its
81 es.

The unit was started in 1947, soon after £500
had been left to the RSPCA by an anonymous
donor who wanted to lessen animal suffering in
North Wales. The society was already running a
number of static clinics. ‘We decided to run the
mobile clinic on bus service lines, with regular
and “request” stops,’ says the society’s Clinic
Organizer.

-Today, both Mr Jones and Mr Myers (both
Welsh speakers) are familiar ﬁgures all along their
SOOvmile weekly route. In the steep, narrow streets
of the stonevgrey Villages, where backing the
vehicle into position is a job in itself, Mr Jones
announces his arrival by a blast on the specially
ﬁtted twin horns, and then sets up shop.

At the back of the unit is the ﬁrst aid room.
It has sink, shelves, stacks of leaﬂets on the care
of cats and the keeping of tortoises, and a range
of pills, powders and ﬁrst aid instruments. It
also has a collecting box—43111 treatment and
advice is free—which a surprising percentage of
the ‘customers’ ignore.

 

 




 

 

March 1953'

THE ANIMAL W‘ORLD 27

 

 

BIRDS’-NESTING

We are now at the beginning of the birds’ breed’
ing season and it behoves all humanitarians, and
especially bird lovers, to have some clear con
ception of .exactly what they mean when they use
the word birds’—nesting, since it contains many
good and bad elements. One would suggest
dividing the birds’—nesters into several cate’
gories—might I tabulate?:

l. The bird lover and the birds’rnest lover, who
delights in watching and studying birds under all
conditions even to hunting for, and admiring, the
architecture of the nest and. the wonder and
beauty of the eggs. This person, be he adult or
youth, never takes an egg or destroys a nest and is
the ideal which should be encouraged in a rising
generation. '

2. The zoologist, scientiﬁc or other, generally
an adult who makes big collections of eggs and is
often prepared to pay appreciable sums for com,
plete clutches. He, or she, is a dangerous person
and in the past has been responsible for practically
exterminating many of our rarest breeding species.
He is generally a plausible fellow and will argue on
the wisdom of this craft and proclaims it to be
in the birds’ interest. He is generally clever in
evading the law.

The remaining. categories chieﬂy apply to
schoolchildren, boys and girls up to eighteen

 

years of age, although today one is pleased to
see many of these who come into Category 1.

3. Those, who take one egg from a nest ‘for
their collection’. This class is encouraged by many
parents and other kindly adults. It has, however,
its snags and should not be encouraged; for
instance, more than one child of a party wants one
egg, or other children may ﬁnd the nest and ‘just
take one egg’. We must here also face the fact
that many birds, particularly those with domed
nests, will forsake the nest as the result of minor
(to our minds) interference, such as disturbance
of a leaf in the nest or boughs in its neighbour—

hood.

4. Those children who pull out all nests and
take all the eggs. This type of child is very coma
mom and accounts for possibly one third or one—
half of all birds’vnesting boys. They take eggs,
fresh or set, and have no imagination and no pity.

5. Those children who do not limit themselves
to eggs but deliberately take young birds of all
sizes which they immediately proceed to torture
and kill. This type of child is not very rare in
country places, but he is difﬁcult to apprehend
and bring to task.

It would appear that many children in this last
category are mentally defective and come from
poor homes.

A. H. B. KIRKMAN

Linnets are lovely songsters. Except in

winter, when he loses these special

colourings, the male has a crimson

forehead and breast. Linnets eat weed
seeds and insects

Photo] [0. J. Brooks

 

CHRISTMAS MARKET

A wellaattended Conference was held at Head;
quarters recently, under the Chairmanship of
Col R. M. Powell, DSO. A useful discussion took
place and it was decided again to promote the
Christmas .Market at the Seymour Hall, Seymour
Place, W1, the selected dates being November
18 and 19, 1953 (Wednesday and Thursday). The
catering arrangements and the hire of the bazaar
stalls were also discussed.

At the conclusion of the conference a vote of
thanks to Colonel Powell for his kindness in acting
as Chairman was passed with acclamation.

APPROACHING 80: STILL COLLECTS

Mrs Horton, of Wycombe Marsh, who is getting
on for 80, collected in November, ‘just around
the Marsh’, £5 63. 6d. for branch funds. Mrs
Horton writes proudly ‘1 shall carry on as long
as I can.’ -

 




 

 

 

March 1953

THE ANIMAL WORLD 29

 

 

RSPCA ACHIEVEMENTS
Redruth Highway Slaughtervhouse

Continuous pressure by the Cornwall West

Branch has brought about much—needed reforms
at this slaughter—house. The subject of improve—
ments was also raised in the House of Commons
by Mr F. H. Hayman, MP for Falmouttham’
borne.

Four covered cattle pens have been erected and
a concrete cattle walk has been laid from the rear
entrance of the slaughter—house to the entrance of
the new lairage. In future, all cattle brought there
for slaughter will be comfortably housed and
adequately fed.

Reports showing the need for these reforms
were made by Chief Inspector Munnelly.

Applegarth Market, Northallerton

S—lnspector Jackson reports that Northallerton
Auctions Ltd have just published a booklet con

taining their revised rules and, on the suggestion
of the Inspector, they included various regula~~
tions which will prevent suffering, such as a
direction that no cow shall be offered for sale in
an overstocked condition; that animals in any
way unsound shall be excluded from the sale
ring, and that all animals shall be removed from
the market premises within a reasonable time
after the close of the day’s sale. Posters, giving a
summary of the revised rules, are exhibited
throughout the market.

Good News from Lancashire

Thanks to the untiring efforts of Inspector
King, Rawtenstall Corporation have decided to
prohibit the offering of animals as prizes at all
future fairs held on land owned by the Corpora—
tion. The Inspector has obtained a similar
promise from the Town Councils of Bacup,
Atherton, Tyldesley, Bury, Whiteﬁeld and
Haslingden.

 

SUBSCRIPTIONS UNDER DEED OF
COVENANT

Many RSPCA subscribers have signed a Deed of
Covenant thereby almost doubling their sub,
scriptions at no cost to themselves as the Society
is able to recover tax on subscriptions paid under
Deed of Covenant.

To enable the RSPCA to enjoy such additional
support, the subscriber, who is paying income
tax on some part of his or her income at the
standard rate—at present 95. 6d. in the £——must

(1) Sign a Deed of Covenant undertaking to sub—
scribe a certain sum annually (the amount of
the subscription) for seven years, or life time,
whichever may be the shorter period, and-

(2) Sign a Certiﬁcate of Tax Deduction at the
time of, or after the subscription has been
paid. »

Whilst the standard rate of tax remains at
93. 6d. in the £, the Society derives very substan—
tial additional benefit on subscriptions paid under
Deed of Covenant, as the following examples will
indicate:

A subscription of :

105. per annum becomes 19s. upon recovery of tax

£1 )) H H £1 188‘ 1d” H )) ))
£3 )’ H H £5 148‘ 3d’ 3) )9 ’3

(These are just a few examples but the approxia
mate ratio applies to all subscriptions.)

The procedure is quite simple and Headquar—
ters will gladly forward a Deed Form for comple—
tion on request. If the subscriber supports a local
branch and wishes to sign a Deed, it is suggested
contact be made with the branch concerned.

‘ There is no additional expense to the donor but
there is very material beneﬁt to the Society.

ALL ATTENTION

 

Chatham Animal Defenders were all attention to a meeting
of the group at Navy House, Chatham. A hundred and ﬁfty
attended

Division Committee members, including the chairman,
Mr A. S. Price, the hon treasurer, Mr G. Walker, attended.
Mr ]. Price of Higham, lent his talkie projector which was
operated by Mr Ballard and his assistant. Mrs D. Greaves,
Luton auxiliary hon secretary, was the prime mover,
together with Mrs E. F. Barrett, division hon secretary.
Chief lnspector Higgins was present and Mr C. R. Davies,
branch organizer, gave an illustrated talk
OBITUARY

With sincere regret we report the following
deaths: Miss E. Rawcliffe, hon sec, Pembrokea
shire Branch; Mr G. O. Hindley, former hon
sec, YorksaBradford Branch; Mrs Pleydellv
Bouverie, committee member, Sidmouth Auxili—
ary; Miss 1. Ingram, former hon sec, Berks’
Newbury Branch; Mrs W. G. Dent, Vice’Presi—
dent, Rotherham Branch; Mrs Logan, member
of KentvCanterbury Branch Committee; and
the following supporters—Mrs C. Coomber,
Miss K. H. Green, Mrs M. Gertrude (aged 89),
Mrs Mary Bates, and Mrs A. Blakeney.

 




‘_.4 ~

.__..4

-

f«-;_

r.‘ '14

r).-

..r.» -' a.

Photo] [Courtesy of the News of the World

A Peaceful Retreat

Pensioners who will spend the rest of their days in peace at the RSPCA Home of Rest for Horses,
Ningwood, Isle of Wight

 

 

 

 

~.\

 

I
‘1
"Vr/ I }
i
\
\_ i
if i
1
l
J
l
i
“-
3.1;.
i
i
i
i
i
l
i
‘ 1
1
i
l
I
i
i




March 1953

THE ANIMAL WORLD 31

 

Honey, on the right, is owned by
a keen RSPCA supporter in
Dar-es-Salaam

A BRIEF REVIEW
WRSPCA WORK
IN 1952

INSPECTION. RSPCA Inspectors investigated
30,750 complaints of cruelty to animals. Their
investigations led to:

962 convictions;
23 prison sentences;
11,559 verbal cautions.

Juvenile Oﬁenders. The RSPCA is always re’
luctant to take juveniles to Court and only re“
sorts to this action when other methods of cor“
rection fail. In view of this, added seriousness
attaches to the fact that: ‘

151 convictions were obtained by the
RSPCA in Juvenile Courts for cruelty to
animals.

THIS IS THE HIGHEST TOTAL UNDER THIS
HEADING‘ FOR AT LEAST SEVENTEEN YEARS.

These Animals Suffered. Horses ﬁgured in 98
cases; pigs in 75; fowls, 55. This is but a selection;
every species suffered cruelty during the year.

Dogs, featuring in 288 cases, were the animals
most frequently the victims of convicted cruelty;
cats featured in 110 cases.

On application by the RSPCA 142 persons

guilty of cruelty to dogs were forbidden for.

varying periods to own a dog or hold a licence.
CLINICS. More new free animal clinics were

established by the RSPCA in 1952‘ than in any
postvwar year. By the end of the year the RSPCA
had a total of 104. At these clinics, and under the
free voucher scheme (permitting the poor to
have free veterinary treatment for their animals
where clinics were not established):

THE NUMBER OF CASES HANDLED AMOUNTED
TO ABOUT 400,000.

RSPCA Free clinics are for animals of the poor,

aged and blind.

Air Hostel. Towards the end of the year the
RSPCA opened its Animals’ Air Hostel—the
ﬁrst of its kind in the world—at London Airport.

AllvNight Emergency Service. The RSPCA All—
Night Emergency Service at RSPCA Head—
quarters answered 19,839 calls. A remarkable
variety of animals needed their help———a tame
mouse taken ill in the night, an injured horse in
Hyde Park and cattle involved in a railway acci—
dent. Though the emergency service operates only

. Within a ten—miles radius of Piccadilly Circus, a

 

call for help from Lynmouth at the time of the
ﬂoods sent the emergency ambulance and an
official who had been on duty all night to help in
the rescue of animals.

EDUCATION. New Groups of Animal Defenders to
the number of 584 were formed, bringing the
total. number of Groups to 2,392. Lectures were
given by RSPCA school lecturers to 1,519 schools

and youth organizations.

PARLIAMENTARY WORK. Various Bills affecting
animal welfare were introduced into Parliament
by Private Members. The Cockfighting Bill be—
came law and will strengthen the RSPCA’S hand
in preventing this illegal ‘sport’. The Riding
Establishments Bill was withdrawn; the Protec—
tion of Animals (Amendment) Bill, which seeks
to extend the powers of the court to disqualify
owners convicted of cruelty to animals from
owning animals, was awaiting second reading at
the end of the year. Another Bill awaiting second
reading was the Protection of Animals (Penalties)
Bill, which seeks to increase the maximum fine
under the Protection of Animals Act, 1911, from
£25 to £100.

Questions were asked in Parliament on a wide
variety of animal subjects, such as quarantining
of dogs, import of tortoises, transport of horses
and the use of gin traps.

AWARDS. The following RSPCA awards were

presented for animal life saving:

Margaret Wheatley Cross 1
Silver Medals . 15
Bars to Silver Medals 4
Bronze Medals . 74
Bars to Bronze Medals 9

 

The jackdaw Group of Animal Defenders with'the group

leader, Mrs Rowell, on the right, and Mrs jenner, a helper,

on the left. The group, which belongs to the London North-

East Branch of the RSPCA, is happy and active, as the
picture shows

 




 

ROYAL SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS

PATRONS

HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN

HER MAJESTY QUEEN ELIZABETH, THE QUEEN MOTHER
HER MAJESTY QUEEN MARY
HER ROYAL HIGHNESS PRINCESS ALICE COUNTESS OF ATHLONE
HER ROYAL HIGHNESS PRINCESS ARTHUR OF CONNAUGHT

PRESIDENT
SIR ROBERT GOWER, KCVO, OBE, HON DCL, JP

VICE-PRESIDENTS
HER GRACE WINIFRED DUCHESS OF PORTLAND SIR MALCOLM SARGENT, HOIN LLD, D MUS, FRCM, FRSA
THE RT HON THE EARL OF SHAFTESBURY, KP, PC COLONEL R. M. POWELL, DSO

THE COUNCIL (1952-1953)

Chairman: THE RT HON LORD MERTHYR, DL, TD
Vice-Chairman: *MRs WALLIS POWER, JP

 

 

TAGIUS, THE REV DOM. AMBROSE, 088, MA *EVANS, MRS DAVID. BA POULETT, THE RT HON THE EARL
*ALLIBERT, MRS FREEMAN, PETER, ESQ, MP POWELL, COL RM, DSO
*ALSOP, ALDERMAN A. J., PCRA, FCIS, JP GASKOIN, 0- 1- 8-, ESQ, MA RATTRAY, THE REV DR R. F.
BERE, SIR RUPERT DE LA, MP *GREENWOOD’ ANTHONY, ESQ: MA, MP *RIECK, H. H., ESQ
BERTIE 0F THAME, THE RT HON THE VISCOUNTEss HARVEY, MRS 1- w., MA SHAFTESBURY, THE RT HON THE COUNTESS OP

*HOCKIN, C. OWEN, ESQ
HOGG, s. R., ESQ, Dso, MC
*HUNTER, MISS

BRANSOM, MISS L. G., FRSA
BYWATER, H. E., ESQ., MRCVS

SIBLY, W. A., ESQ, MA, JP
SNELL, THE REV PREBENDARY L. J. B., MBE, JP

 

 

 

*COOPER, ALDERMAN J. D., JP LEE, MRS TERRINGTON, THE RT HON LORD, KBE, MA
DAWES, CAPTAIN H. w., CBE, MRCVS LOCKWOOD, LT-COL J. C., JP, TD, Mp THOMAS, W- S. RUSSELL, ESQ,
ERSKINE 0F RESTORMEL, THE RT HON THE LORD MURRAY, BRIGADIER C. A., CBE, MRCVS WALFORD. MRS DESBOROUGH
ESTCOURT-OSWALD, MISS AGNES, MB (LOND), DPH MOORE, LT-COL SIR THOMAS, CBE, MP *WHITE, HARRY, ESQ. FCA
(CANTAB), DOMS *PARKER, MAURICE G., ESQ, MISAC *WINCHESTER, F. 1., ESQ, FCIS, FSS
* Denotes Branch Representative 1‘ Denotes Co-optcd Member
OFFICE BEARERS APPOINTED BY THE COUNCIL
Hon Treasurer—LT-COL J. c. LOCKWOOD. JP, TD, MP ' Chief Secretary—ARTHUR w. Moss, ESQ, MBE, ACIS
Deputy Hon Treasurer—HARRY WHITE, ESQ, FCA Legal Secretary—J. I-IALL, ESQ
Hon Medical Ofﬁcer—A. F. WHYTE, ESQ. MB. CHB ChIef Veterlnary Officer—MAJOR R. C. G. HANCOCK, BSC, MRCVS

Bankers—MESSRS COUITS AND CO, STRAND, LONDON
Auditors—MESSRS VINEY, PRICE & GOODYEAR, CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS .
Telegrams—CRUELTY LONDON.’ Telephone—Whltehall 7177

 

Here’s a ﬁne

book which

will appeal
to every

Dog Lover!

 

‘SPRATT’S GUIDE TO DOG MANAGEMENT’
88 pages, plus 8 art plates in full colour accurately illus-
trating 4! leading breeds. Subjects covered include:
Training, Management, Feeding, Grooming, Breeding,
and Housing. Obtainable from your usual Spratt’s Stockist,
price l/6d., or in case of difficulty, price I /8d. post free,
from Dept. A.W. at the address below.

  

SAFE , , S . . . published by the manufacturers of ,
_ SURE JEWEL XE v ““5 SPRATT s

CAPTIVE BOLT PISTOL Biscuit
FOR ALL ANIMALS
“:01” AND SHELVOKE [ID BIRMINGHAM 6 ENGLAND

      
      

DOG FOODS

5465 SPRATT’S PATENT LTD., 4|/47 BOW ROAD, LONDON, E.3

 

 




 

 

 

26

 

A scene
at the

poultry
market

 

millions. At Ibadan University the young Branch
has already made itself felt, as is testified by the
formation of an Animal Defenders’ Group.

The Nigeria Branch of the RSPCA had
not existed many months before attention
was drawn to a trafﬁc in horses far worse
than anything known in this country, even
in the days when the decrepit horse traffic
between England and the Continent was at
its height. Other cruelties ﬂourish, apart
from the revolting ritual horse slaughter;
rams are incited to ﬁght and the most
primitive conditions obtain in markets.
One reform has been brought about since
the Branch came into being: an Order has
been made concerning the transport of
poultry by rail, so that the old style bar-
baric basket, shown in the illustration, is
now forbidden and airy, satisfactory recep-
tacles must be used in future for the com
veyance of poultry—many thousands of
birds being transported every week in this
vast country, where the intense heat makes
their discomfort and suffering even more
acute.

In Tanganyika, from which place reports are
received of monkeys skinned alive, good work is
being done against great odds. The RSPCA
Organizer there, Mrs I. Slater, is endeavouring to
establish a chain of RSPCA Centres throughout
East Africa and, judging by our picture of the
Arab with his donkey, the Branch in Tanga is
conforming to the Society’s finest traditions by
placing educational methods in the forefront of
its campaign.

It would take more space than is available to
give a complete picture of the work of the Society
overseas, but the fact remains that the RSPCA is
reaching out to the dark places of the earth,
where hideous cruelties are fostered by ignorance
and superstition. The need is great, but it cannot
be met, however feebly, without funds, and the
RSPCA Overseas Fund (formerly Empire and
Foreign Fund), which existsfor the purpose of
spreading humane propaganda throughout, the
world, has become sadly depleted (hav1ng been
reduced to a mere £300), by the demands made
upon it in recent years. It is true that a large

THE ANIMAL WORLD

 

March 1953

amount was bequeathed. to the Fund for work in
the Near East, but the RSPCA cannot open a
Branch there at this stage, as the country con—
cerned is not in the sterling area.

We must expand, however, where we
can, and now there comes a cry from
Singapore for help in work which is so
urgently required that the Society’s Council
feels something must be done without de—
lay. It is. the custom in that part of the
world, where religiOus belief forbids the
taking of animal life, to place unwanted
dogs and cats in sacks and leave them on
the highway, to be run over by passing
vehicles. Other cruel practices abound, but
the native population is amenable to teach—
ing and a little band of British workers has
pledged itself to alleviate the suffering of
the unhappy animals and gradually to intro—
duce a better scheme of things by precept
and example. To put the work on a sound
footing, however, financial aid is sorely
needed. _

Charitable appeals are many in these days and
money not too plentiful, but generous hearts rev
spond readily to any S O S which concerns
helpless creatures in distress. Therefore we feel
certain that in this, the Coronation Year, readers
of the ANIMAL WORLD will rally to the support of
the Society’s Council and give, according to their
means, to further the work of the Royal SPCA in
far—off lands. Gifts should be sent to the Chief
Secretary, RSPCA, Jermyn Street, London, SW1,
in envelopes marked ‘OVERSEAS FUND), and will
be individually acknowledged in the ANIMAL
WORLD. Anyone requiring fuller information as
to the work that is being done abroad, should
apply to the same address for literature.

EDUCATION OVERSEAS
Pride is encouraged in animal welfare. At RSPCA Tanga

(Tanganyika) Branch show and fete an Arab proudly dis- ’

plays the lst Prize rosette awarded to him for the good
condition of his donkey '

 

 

 

 




 

 

28 THE ANIMAL "WORLD

March 1953

 

 

THE RSPCA AT WORK

JANUARY 1953
RSPCA INSPECTORS

2,260 Complaints of cruelty investigated.
2 Oﬁenders imprisoned.
7O Offenders ﬁned.‘

36 Persons guilty of minor acts of cruelty cautioned in writing.

820 Registered cautions were administered by Inspectors.

CLASSIFICATION OF CONVICTIONS

HORSES—Working in an unﬁt state, overloading, neglecting 5
DONKEY—Neglecting 1
CATTLE—Neglecting . . 3
PIGS—Neglecting, travelling on road unﬁt 4
GOAT—Neglecting . . . . 1
DOGS——Neglecting, starving, killing in improper manner,
attempting to kill in improper manner 18
CATS—Neglecting, shooting and wounding,t throwing to
ground .. 4
RABBIT—~Injuring with knife 1
BOWLS—Neglecting, exposing for sale in an unﬁt state,
conveying in an improper manner, etc .. 8
PIGEONs—Injuring with missile from catapult 1
GOLDEINCH—Conveying in an improper manner 1
SWAN—Shooting and wounding 1
GULL—Shooting and wounding 1
OFFENCES UNDER THE PROTECTION OF BIRDS ACT, 1925:
Conﬁning birds in small cages 6
OFFENCES UNDER THE WILD BIRDS PROTECTION ACTS:
Being in possession of recently taken birds 3
Using bird lime 1
Using traps for the purpose Of taking 2
Setting pole traps 1

VARIOUS OFFENCES: ,
Steel tooth traps—set in open ' ' 4

Permitting in offences 4
Aiding and abetting in oﬁences 2
TOTAL NUMBER OF CONVICTIONS , 72

During JANUARY, 1953, Magistrates, at the request of the
RSPCA disqualiﬁed EIGHT persons from owning a dog or
holding a dog licence Disqualiﬁcations were as follows:

SIX for LIFE: ONE for Two years: ONE for TWELVE months.

HEADQUARTERS CLINICS

No. of animals handled:
Cats, 4,121 Dogs, 4,040 Misc., 219 Total, 8,380
No. of animals given emergency ﬁrst—aid: 1,951.

PUTNEY CONVALESCENT WARD

No. of animals handled:

Cats, 19 Dogs, 60 Misc., 0 Total,.79

NIGHT STAFF

No. of calls received: 1,427

Miles covered by ambulance in respect of urgent calls: 1,541
No. of animals rescued: 13

No. of cases treated by veterinary surgeon: 210

NORTH WALES [IN IT

First—aid cases:

Cats, 23 Dogs, 78 Misc. ., 1 Total, 102
N o of other animals handled by Unit:
Cats, 63 ~ Dogs, 55 Misc., 0 Total, 117
No. of miles covered by Unit during month: 2,500
AWARDS
Current awards at present under review.
RECORDS FOR 1951
COMPLAINTS . 31, 399
CONVICTIONS ... 2.. ...... 93 9
CAUTIONS . 11,146
HEADQUARTERS CLINICS
No. of animals handled: 161,071
NIGHT STAFF
No. of calls: 17,792
NORTH WALES UNIT
No. of animals handled: 2,822
AWARDS
RSPCA awards for animal life saving: ‘
Silver Medals 15
Bars to Silver Medals 4
Bronze Medals .. 86
Bars to Bronze Medals 7

Merit Certiﬁcates . . . .. . 142,

 

 

 




 

 

30 THE ANIMAL WORLD

March ‘ 1953

 

 

DRIVEN ALMOST CRAZY BY SlGHT OF FOOD . . .

AND THE ONE wHo DIED

 

Four pigs were involved in a case brought by the RSPCA before the Magistrates at Nottingham Guild Hall when a man was

prosecuted for causing unnecessary suﬂ'ering to the pigs by not giving them sufﬁcient nourishing food. Counsel for the RSPCA

described the four pigs as grossly neglected and on the point of starvation. A fifth pig was already dead and a veterinary

surgeon ordered the others to be humanely destroyed. He added that the sight of food almost drove them crazy. The defendant

was ﬁned £l5 and ordered to pay £8 8s. costs after being told by the Chairman ‘It is a shocking case.’ (Inspector jenkins.
Case No. A6276)

HORSE EXHAUSTED ON HILL

A horse pulling a load three, times his own
weight up a. hilly street was the subject of a sum»
mons brought against a man, at Littledean.
Counselfor the RSPCA said the allegation was
that the horse, a two year Old, was pulling a load
approximately three times his own weight. The
horse was seen by a POlice Officer'in What was
obviously'an exhausted condition. The defendant
was standing in front of the horse pulling on the
reins to try and get him to go up the hill.

The Police Constable said that the horse was
cOmpletely exhauSted and appeared very nervous.
The defendant was ﬁned £2 and had to pay £6
costs. (A6005; Inspector Gardner.)

HE KEPT THEM INTERESTED ‘

When one of the RSPCA lecturers visited a cerv
tain school the headmaster said he doubted
whether anyone could keep the attention of his
boys for thirty minutes, but he was prepared to
letlthe lecturer try. The boys actually listened
well and showed their close attention by asking
numerous questions. '

Since the last report 74 lectures have been
giVen in schools in Kent, Lancashire, Yorkshire
and Surrey. Two Animal Defender Groups in
Streatham and Wareside, the Dagenham Junior
Library Club and the National Children’s Home
at Harpenden were also addressed.

Fortyvsix Animal Defender Groups were
formed; 248 children joined the Headquarters
Group.

FARMER FINED
Exposed Rams for Sale in Unﬁt State

Allegations that a farmer ‘converted’ two rams
into shearlings, so that they would bring more
when sold, were made at Kirkby Stephen. The
farmer wasﬁned £20, plus £13 costs, for allowing
unnecessary suffering, to be caused to the rams by
unreasonably exposing them for a sale in an unﬁt
state.

A solicitor, prosecuting for the RSPCA,
described the case as One of deliberately inﬂicted
cruelty. When taken to the collecting centre the
animals were passed off as shearlings instead of
rams. At that time the price for shearlings was
23. 3d. a pound, and that for rams ls. 3%d. a
pound, With the result that the defendant re’
ceived £8 63. 5d. more than he should have
done.

Evidence was given that after being passed by
graders at the collecting centre, the rams were
taken to a slaughterhouse. They were seen there
by Senior Inspector Cameron, RSPCA, who con—
sidered the defendant’s action ‘callous’.

The defendant said that he bought the rams for
resale. He produced the instrument used, which
was described as ‘humane, bloodless, safe and
sure’. It was common practice amOng farmers to
use this instrument Without the presence of a veter—
inary surgeon or the use of an anaesthetic. The
rams did not appear any worse for the operation,
and were quite normal when taken to the collect—

ing centre. (A.6415.) '




 

 

32

 

OVER AN HOUR IN MINESHAFT TO
RESCUE A LAMB '
Mr J. D. Senior, of the Upper Wharfdale Rescue
Association, descended a disused mineshaft at
Nussey Knott Pastures, near Appletreewick,
Yorks, at 5.10 p.m. to rescue a lamb who had

fallen. After some time his voice could no longer

be distinguished from echoes in the shaft. He
reached the foot of the shaft after 125 ft. of rope
had been paid out. He then harnessed the lamb
and together they ascended, reaching the surface
at 6.15 p.m. '

Mr Senior was wet and covered with greasy
clay and whilst in the shaft had difﬁculty in
breathing. He also had on his dangerous journey
an attack of nose bleeding.

He has received the RSPCA Silver Medal and
citation certiﬁcate for his gallantry.

Bronze Medals

Among the winners of the RSPCA Bronze Medal
is Mrs O. M. Baumert, who, from her garden,
saw a newly born calf in the middle of a brook at
Cemetery Lane, St Neots, Hunts. She crossed the
brook by going on her hands and knees across a
fallen tree. She then walked into the water, which
was icycold and reached her waist. She pushed
the calf on to the bank and clear of the water,
but was unable to help the calf up the slippery
bank. The cow then appeared and kept pushing
Mrs Baumert away, knocked off her glasses and
injured her eye. Her calls for help brought men
who were able to hold off the cow and help the
calf to safety.

Two men who rescued a heifer from an ice—pit
at Valence Estate, Westerham, Kent, Mr C.
Reeves and Station Ofﬁcer L. G. Colborne, have
each received Bronze Medals and RSPCA

citation certiﬁcates and the same award has gone

THE ANIMAL WORLD

 

March 1353

When this cow sank into a bog near
Sevenoaks gasworks, help arrived within
a few minutes. Rescue work, shown in
progress, was undertaken by Senior
Inspector Smith, the police and the fire
brigade. The rescuers soon had the satis-
faction of seeing the animal released and

her apprehension ended

Photo] [Courtesy of Anckorn, Halstead

to the following:

Fireman W. F. Holloway, who rescued a dog
from a disused well at Jack’s Bush, Lobscombe,
near Salisbury; Mr J. Kerton, who rescued a dog
over the cliffs at Brean Down, Weston—super—
Mare; Mr F. Campion, who rescued two dogs cut
off by the tide at Hoylake, Cheshire; Police;
Constable J. C. Hutchings, who rescued an ewe
from an old mineshaft at Emmetts Allotment,
Exmoor; Mr R. Canty and Mr F. Breedt, who
rescued an Impala ram from the Sabi River,
Kruger National Park, South Africa; Policer
Sergeant C. Stodart, who rescued a dog from a
railway cutting at Addingford, near Horbury,
Yorks; Fireman R. Lightfoot, who rescued a cat
from a tree at Trinity Church Gardens, Irish
Street, Whitehaven, and Police—Constable D. C.
Williams, who rescued a sheep from a roof at
Eiﬁon Terrace, Talysarn.

Mr A. J. Roberts, who already holds the
RSPCA Bronze Medal for bravery shown in the
rescue of an animal, has received a bar to his

medal for rescuing a sheep from Bixhead Quarry,
Broadwell, Glos.

TRAPPED BIRD
Tinplate Worker Fined

A tinplate worker was ﬁned a total of £5 at Swan'
sea on four summonses concerning the trapping
of a wild goldﬁnch. He was also ordered to pay
three guineas costs. He pleaded not guilty to using
a trap and bird lime for the purpose of taking a
goldﬁnch; conﬁning a wild goldﬁnch in a cage,
and conﬁning a goldﬁnch in a cage too small to
allow the bird to stretch its wings.

Chief Inspector H. Nash said that with a
policeman he kept watch on bird traps outside the
defendant’s home. He saw him approach the traps
three times before he spoke to him. (A6417.)

 




    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  

     
      
   
 
     
    
     

 

 

THE ANIMAL WORLD

 
 

March 1953

 

 

Photo] Courtesy of Durham County Advertiser

When the Mayor, Councillor G. Mclntyre, opened the
RSPCA bring and buy sale at Durham he received a box of
cigarettes. The gift was handed to him by Mrs Sadler’s
poodle, Candy. The picture above, showing the presenta-
tion, was taken on the platform of the Durham Town Hall

Mrs Hall, Sutton—in-Ashﬁeld auxiliary hon secretary,
reports that a bring and buy sale raised £11 for branch funds.
Preston Mrs France, Chorley and District auxiliary hon
secretary, reports that a Christmas competition raised £38
clear for branch funds. All prizes were given by members of
the auxiliary committee.

Rochdale Mrs T. D. Billington, hon secretary of Middleton
auxiliary, reports that a Christmas competition raised £9 for
branch funds. Prizes were given by members of the com-
mittee.

Rochester Division Mr R. Ballard showed RSPCA ﬁlms at
the John Fisher Hall, Frindsbury. At this entertainment,
which included a talent competition, the sum of about £8
was raised for branch funds. Mr Ballard was helped in the
organization by Mrs Ballard.

Shropshire Mrs Meredith, branch hon secretary. reports
that a bring and buy sale organized by the Viscountess Hill
and Lady Berwick held at Swan Hill House, by kind per-

    
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

}niscsiion of Mrs Wynne-Corrie, raised about £80 for branch
un s.

Stockport, E. Cheshire and W. Derbyshire Miss Cynthia
Rushby, Hayﬁeld aux1liary hon secretary, reports that over
£1 1 was raised for branch funds by a pet show and jumble sale.
Surrey—East Mrs Longley, branch hon secretary, reports
that the Redhill and Reigate Round Table No. 1 19 has sent
the branch a_ cheque for £50, being part of the proceeds
from the quaint dog show held last year. The branch’s Own
autumn sale raised £140. £10 was sent by the branch to the
Lynmouth Appeal Fund. '
Walsall Mr S. Long, hon secretary and treasurer of the
branch, spoke to the members of the 18 Plus Club, Digbeth,
Wal’sall, on the work of the RSPCA. Inspector Downe‘s also
addressed the members. .

West Bromwich and Wednesbury A jumble sale organized
by Mrs Haywood, branch hon secretary, raised £20 2s. 9d.
for branch funds. 4 '

Westmorland Mrs Gurney, Levens auxiliary hon secretary,

held a dance and raised about £9 for branch funds.
a...

 

Mrs Lebon, Shoeburyness co aux hon secretary, sends this
picture of a Southend carnival entry. Mr S. Lebon, Senior
Inspector Pope and a Veterinary Surgeon decorated the trap

 

 

FLAG DAYS

 

Loughborough Heather Day, last year—produce stall in the
Market Place

Branch ofﬁcials are reminded it is advisable to order ﬂag
day equipment about four weeks before the actual date of
the collection. The number of such efforts has increased to a
very_ gratifylng extent and it will assist Headquarters in
dealing With ﬂag day requirements if orders are placed at an
early date; early delivery of equipment to organizers will
assmt 1n the distribution of tins, trays and emblems to collec-

 

tors and will allow time in which to order additional equip-
ment should the original order prove inadequate to meet late
offers of potential collectors.

Headquarters will always do everything possible to meet
rush orders and equipment will be placed on rail if necessary,
but in such cases there can be no guarantee that supplies will
arrive in time in Spite of every endeavour made by Head-
quarters.

Early ordering and delivery of ﬂag day equipment does
much to assist in making successful collections.

‘You can’t
begin helping
the RSPCA
too soon!’
say these tiny
tots from
Clydach. _
Children, cannot 3
of course,
collect in public

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

36. * THE ANIMAL WORLD

March 1953

 

There are always people who think that the
van is something else. One visitor with three
children eagerly walked round to the back of the
vehicle, looked with surprise at the shelves and
sink, and turned away in disappointment. ‘I
thought you were a travelling cinema,’ she said.
Mr Jones recalls ruefully: ‘We’ve been mistaken
for a travelling icevcream stall, a fish’and’chip
van, and‘almost everything elSe.’ ‘

Almost routine jobs are first aid for the owl
who has trapped his foot in a house eave and the
gannets washed ashore with oil—clogged wings.

Work is often already there when Mr Jones
and Mr Myers reach the garage at eight o’clock
to prepare the vehicle for the day’s run. One
morning a small boy was waiting with a white
mouse for whom he wanted a home. ,‘I kept the
mouse for three days,’ says Mr Jones. ‘On the
third day I went to feed her and found that I had
not one mouse, but ten. The mother and family
of nine were finally handed over to a young
friend. When I last heard from him there were
sixty white mice, all members of the same family.’

 

The RSPCA stand organized by the Preston Branch at the
Royal Lancashire Show, Ashton Park, Preston

HOUSE—TO—HOUSE COLLECTIONS

(We give, wherever possible, the place at which the house—to—
house collection was made, and the name of the organizer or
organizers. )

Sussex—East, and Hastings Branch, £264 103. 11d.;
Budleigh Salterton, Dr H. B. Walters, aux hon sec,
£67 ls. 6d.; Worksop, Miss .R. Bertram, aux hon sec,
£23 125. 3d.; South Harrow Clinic, £57 95. 3d.; Leeds
Branch, £2 35. 7d.; Kent—Dover and District Branch, Mr
W. S. Lee, chairman and hon sec, £24 63. 3d.; Wilts—
North Branch, Mrs Wheeler, hon sec, £87 73. 5d.; Crewe,
Miss Lewis—Dale, aux hon sec, £162 165. 6d.; Lancashire—
North, and Borders Branch, £424 125. 3d.; High Wycombe,
Miss Bristow, co aux hon sec, £53; Surrey—Woking and
District Branch, Miss E. Walker, branch hon sec,
£276 35. 4d.; Sidmouth, Mr Hawkins, aux hon treas,
£10 175.; Forest of Dean Division, Mrs Farmer, division
hon sec, £142 95. 93.; Wilts—Mid, Miss~Ruth A. Goddard,
branch hon sec, £50 165. 7d. (includes £26 55. 1d. wrongly
reported in January Animal World under Wilts—North
Branch); Melksham, Mrs Keen, aux hon sec, £23 43. 1161.;

Warminster, Miss I. Butterworth, aux hon sec, £6 45. 4d.;
West Drayton, Mr H. Button, £51 75. 8d.; Newark, Mrs
Aldred, aux hon sec, £4 85. 1%d.

RSPCA FILM NEWS

The Society’s ﬁlms were sent to the following places for
showing recently: South Woodford, Newark, Strood,
Newport, Cosham, Kennington, Warrington, Malvern
Link, Gateshead, Rotherwick, Belford, Alnmouth, Fren—
sham, Bootle, Middlesbrough, Leverington, Cambridge,
Seaford, Atherstone, Winton, Penwortham, Wenlock
Edge, Manningtree, Bedlington, Gillingham, Ton Pentre,
Harpenden, Elstow, Bury, Forest Gate, Redditch, Birming"
ham, Burnley, Norwich, Harlesden, Wisbech, Berwick,
North Shields, Distington, Liverpool, High Wycombe,
Uckﬁeld, Stockton—on—Tees, Cullercoats, Catford, East
Ham, Slough, Farnham, Maidstone, Heywood, Halifax,
Treherbert.

FLAY DAY RESULTS
(We give, wherever possible, the place at which the Flag Day

' was held and the names of the organizer or organizers.)

Dronfleld, Mrs Granger, co aux hon sec, £40.

 

Leicester Flag Day shop window display

USED STAMPS

It has been the practice of some of the Society’s supporters
to send us used stamps; as a result, we have obtained rela.
tively small amounts from the dealers. In the past, a Member
of the Staff has regarded this matter as a hobby in his own
time. I am sorry to say this Member of the Staff has had a
breakdown in health and it is not possible for him to lift
heavy sacks of stamps in the future. It would be quite
uneconomic for labour to be specially seconded for this
purpose and, as a result, it has been decided to stop the
appeal for used English stamps. Incidentally, it may be of
interest to our readers to know that the price obtained for
the stamps is 3d, per 1b., but to send one pound of stamps
by post costs 9d. in postal charges. It takes many stamps to
weigh one pound, and as the majority received are in small
packages, the value to the Society is almost negligible.

 

Pets. The RSPCA supplies pamphlets on the care of all pets.
Send a stamped addressed envelope for the pamphlet about
your pet. RSPCA, 105 Jermyn Street, London, SW1.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

LONDON JOINT ANIMAL FLAG DAY

As already announced, the London Joint Animal Flag Day will be held on April I4 next, with
the usual house to house collection from April 7 to l4 inclusive. These dates are somewhat earlier
than usual but it means that the collection will take place before a number ofthe usual flag days in May.

 

 

 

 

FLAG DAY DEPOT (Picture from Llanelly)

AN ANIMAL
HELPS

‘Cobber’
lends a
hand.
(Picture from
Mrs
Blakeston,
Driﬁield
Auxiliary
Hon Sec)

 

 

 

 

 

R. SOPOCOA=

 

 

 

 

FORM OF BEQUEST FOR NATIONAL WORK

To those benevolent individuals who may wish to become benefactors byWill to this

Society, the following form is respectfully suggested:—

‘1 bequeath to the ROYAL SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS, founded
1824, for the general purposes of that Society, the sum of £ .......................... . ............... .., free
of death duty and the receipt of the Treasurer for the time being of the said Society shall
be sufficient discharge for such legacy.’ (If it should be desired that the legacy should be ex—

pended on some particular phase of the Society’s work, a direction to this effect may be added to the

form of bequest.)

 

NOTE

By the Act of William IV and I Victoria, cap. 26, all Wills or Codicils must be in Writing signed by the

Testator, and attested by two witnesses in the presence of the Testator and of each other.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Printed by Shenval Press, Simson Shand Ltd, of Parliament Square, Hertford, and
published by Arthur W. Moss for the RSPCA at 105 Jermyn Street, London, SW1

 

 




