 

 

 

April 1958

THE ANIMAL WORLD ' .39

 

THE RSPCA ‘AT WORK

 

FEBRUARY 1958

RSPCA INSPECTORS

1,613 Complaints of cruelty investigated.
54 Oﬁenders ﬁned.
31 Persons guilty of minor acts of cruelty cautioned in writing.
614 Registered cautions were administered by Inspectors.

CLASSIFICATION OF CONVICTIONS

HORSES—Neglecting, working in an unﬁt state, over-

riding 8
DONKEY—Neglecting 1
CATTLE—Neglecting 2
PIG—Neglecting 1
GOAT~——Neglecting 1
DOGS—Neglecting, chaining in improper manner, etc. 24
CATS—Neglecting 7 . .. 3
Poms—Starving, exposing for sale in an unﬁt state 2
PIGEONs—Maliciously killing Z
OFFENCES UNDER THE PROTECTION OF BIRDS ACT, 1954:

Being in possession of recently taken birds 4

Conﬁning birds in small cages 1

Shooting 1

Killing 2

Using trap for purposes of taking 1
VARIOUS OFFENCES:

Steel—tooth trap—set in open 1

TOTAL NUMBER OF CONVICTIONS 54

.—

During FEBRUARY 1958, Magistrates, at the request of the
RSPCA, disqualiﬁed TWELVE persons from owning a dog or
holding a dog licence. Disqualiﬁcations were as follows:

ONE for 12 months: ONE for 2 years: TWO for 4 years: THREE
for 5 years: TWO for 10 years: THREE for life.

Total number of COMPLAINTS from January Ist 3,621
Total number of CONVICTIONS from January Ist 131
Total number of CAUTIONS from January Ist 1,322

HEADQUARTERS CLINICS

N o. of animals handled:
3,093 Cats 3,369 Dogs 789 Misc.
N o. of animals given emergency ﬁrst aid: 3,046

PUTNEY CONVALESCENT WARD

N o. of animals handled:
79 Dogs 14 Cats

Total 7,251

3 Misc. Total 96

NIGHT STAFF
No. of calls received: 975

N o. of animals given emergency ﬁrst aid : 9

N o. of animals treated by veterinary surgeon: 251

No. of animals rescued: 3

No. of inspection complaints: 8

Miles covered by ambulance in respect of urgent calls: 2,417

NORTH WALES IINIT
First Aid Cases:

43 Cats 50 Dogs 11 Misc. Total 104
No. of animals handled by unit:
131 Cats 117 Dogs 18 Misc. Total 266

No. of miles covered by unit: 2,365

DEVON & CORNWALL UNIT
First Aid Cases:

42 Cats 63 Dogs 6 Misc. Total 111
No. of animals handled by Unit:
108 Cats 81 Dogs 9 Misc. Total 198

No. of miles covered by Unit: 1,400

' SOIITH WALES MOBILE IINIT
First Aid Cases:

62 Cats 179 Dogs 21 Misc. Total 262
No. of animals handled by Unit:
158 Cats 214 Dogs 22 Misc. Total 394
No. of miles covered by Unit: 1,040
AWARDS .
Cases considered . 47
Bronze medals 5
Bars to bronze medals 3
Certiﬁcates 29

RECORDS FOR 1956

INSPECTION
COMPLAINTS 26,508
CONVICTIONS 1,029
CAUTIONS 8,979

HEADQUARTERS CLINICS
No. of animals handled: 145,471

NIGHT STAFF
No. of calls: 18,267

 




 

v

 

 

q

d

'r

1

War

1

l
x
.
\
1 l /
' l
w; ‘
I
ll
,
a
I

 

[lg-F

F m
{i

F3 1‘

 

 

Photograph by courtesy of the Chief Constable of Norfolk]

Trust Abused—a victim of cruelty (See page 43)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

April 1958

THE ANIMAL WORLD 47

 

contribution has been sent. The RSPCA is en,
deavouring to ascertain who in this country was
responsible for the original export of the dogs.

 

Obituary

With sincere regret, we report these deaths:
Miss E. Cradock, honorary secretary, Dean
Auxiliary; Mrs C. P. Calley, a supporter; Miss
E. L. Osborne, president of Bristol Branch and
lifelong worker for the Society in Torquay
formerly; Dr L. A. Parry, former chairman and
committee member of Brighton Branch; Mr
Albert Sutcliffe, former chairman and supporter
of Grimsby Branch.

BRANCH NEWS

(Where a function is organized for the raising of funds, we give,
wherever possible, the place where held, the type of function,
and the name of the organizer or organizers, followed by the
sum raised. The letters AM indicate Annual Meeting; they are
followed by the word branch, or the name of the auxiliary, and
an indication, where possible, of the person presiding and of
ofﬁcials presenting reports; other information is given as
necessary.)

Birmingham and District Dudley, presentation of RSPCA
certiﬁcate of merit, his fourth, by the Mayor, Councillor
J. L. Billingham, to Chief Fire Ofﬁcer Fred Wade, for his
part in the rescue of an Alsatian from a cavern at Wren’s
Nest. Those present included the Lady Mayoress, Alderman
Little (chairman, Dudley aux), Mr C. W. Johnson (aux hon
sec), and Mr G. James DuRose (branch sec).

Cleveland and Tees Side Saltburn, dance, Mr and Mrs G. A.
Roberts (Skelton aux hon sec), £24.

Cumberland—West Maryport, whist drive and rafﬂes, Mrs
Parker (aux hon sec), £12 10s.

Moor Row, jumble sale, Mrs Stevenson (aux hon sec),
£19 10s. 6d.

Derbyshire—Derby and District Breadsall, animal Sunday,
the Rev A. D. Grime, £4.

Coﬁ'ee evening, Mrs J. Fryer, £42 12s. 4d.

Sale of work, Miss Byard, £16 19s. 7d.

Gymkhana and pet show, Mrs and Miss Turner, £20 9s. 8d.
Essex—North-West Whist drive, Miss Everitt (hon clinic
sec), proﬁt of £3 2s. in aid of Clinic funds.
Glamorgan—Mid and Port Talbot AM (Porthcawl aux).
Mrs Ellen Airey (chairman) presided. Reports were sub-
mitted by Mrs Hands (aux hon sec) and Mr O. B. Hands
(aux hon treas).

Grimsby and District Grimsby, annual ball, Major Fitz-
williams (branch chairman) and Mrs Fitzwilliams (asst hon
sec), £42, and rafﬂe £21 18s. 8d.

Hampshire—Southampton and District Swaythling, jumble
sale, Mrs Daly (aux hon sec), £40.

Loughborough and North Leicestershire Loughborough,
whist drive, Miss M. Harridge-Cayless (branch hon sec),
£12 1s. 6d. Mr Lockwood was presented with a framed
certiﬁcate of merit, by Miss M. Harridge-Cayless, for the
rescue of a drowning ewe.

Monmouthshire Abergavenny, jumble sale, Mr Alfred
Jackson (aux hon sec), £22.

Montgomery Cemmaes, dance, Miss E. Evans (aux hon
sec) £9 16s. 3d. ' .

Machlynlleth, ﬁlm show, Mr Harrington, £10.

Newton, dance, Mrs W. Roberts, £18 11s. _
Norfolk—Mid and Norwich Cromer, whist drive, Mrs
Holden, £7 10s.

 

Norfolk West Presentation at the Majestic Cinema, Lynn,

by Lord Evershed (president of Lynn aux), of the bronze

medal to Mr Baxter and certiﬁcate of merit to Mr Long for

saving an Alsatian dog from drowning in the River Ouse at

Lynn last August.

Southport, Birkdale and District Bring and buy sale, Miss

Richards (branch hon sec), £151 1s. 7d. for special fund for

the boarding of stray dogs. ‘
Christmas draw, Miss Richards, £53.

Eszolk—East, and Ipswich Bramford, concert, Mrs Versey,
Ipswich, jumble sale, Mrs Hyde and Mrs Levitt, £18.
Fressingﬁeld, concert, Mrs Fiske, £20 10s. approx.

 

STARTING YOUNG

 

HELPING THE RSPCA

Left to right in this attractive picture, taken by Mr W. R.
Broadbent of Cleeve, near Bristol, are his three children,
Silvia, Pamela and Ian

 

COLLECTIONS

(We give wherever possible the place at which the House-to-
House collection was made and the name of the organizer or
organizers)

House to House

£ 3. d.
Dover, Mrs Duant (aux hon sec) 47 8 7
Whitﬁeld, Mrs Smith (aux hon sec)... 6 6 8
Eastry, Mrs Williamson (aux hon sec) 74 4 2
Tilmanstone, Mrs Roberts (aux hon sec) 19 12 1
Alkham, Mr H. W. Connarley (aux hon sec) 3 19 O
Westcott, Mrs Castley—Lindwall (aux hon sec) 11 16 O
Oldham, Mrs Bethel (br hon sec) 42 18 0
Gloucester City, Mrs Nash (br hon sec) 135 5 2

Forest of Dean, Mrs Nash (aux hon sec) 76 O

 




April 1958

THE ANIMAL WORLD 41

 

 

 

 

 

Photo] . [Courtesy Wimbledon Borough News

RSPCA ANlMALS’ HOSPITAL GETS £240 OPERATING
TABLE

An addition to the ﬁrst-class surgery equipment available
at the RSPCA Putney Hospital, London, is a £240 fully
automatic operating table, which has been paid for by
voluntary efforts on the part of the RSPCA Wimbledon
Branch (hon secretary, Mrs Kemp). The table was handed
over to the Clinic on january3l. The Hospital already has
the most up-to-date surgical equipment and drugs available
for the treatment of animals belonging to poor and needy

folk in the London area. Operation cases from the RSPCA’s -

fifteen free London Clinics come to Putney where last year
1,234 operations were performed. As well as providing
hospital treatment, Putney holds ordinary Clinic sessions
for out-patients; these handled l3,592 animals last year.

 

RSPCA ACHIEVEMENTS

Inspector Hussey reports that after a good deal
of pressure from him, Swindon Market auCa
tioneers have covered in threevquarters of the
pig pens.

According to Inspector Butﬁeld, calves at
Andoversford market in Gloucestershire must be
sold by 11 am. which means they are mostly
loaded by midday. He also says that buyers are
banned from the sale ring during the selling of all
stock. -

From Inspector Wood of Cardiff, comes the
news that all calves are now housed under cover
at Cowbridge market.

 

~ SFEI.I.B©UND

‘Fifteen minutes will be quite long enough for
them’, said the Headmistress of an Infants’ School
an RSPCA lecturer visited recently, but in fact
over thirty minutes slipped by without a sound
or a movement from the children.

Since the last report 91 lectures were given in
schools in Lincoln, Worthing, Faversham, Maid;
enhead, Cardiff, Sussex, and the London area.

Thirty—six new Animal Defender Groups were
formed; 319 children joined the Headquarters
Group.

MARKET DAY

0ft have I seen with sorrow and unrest
Thesouls of creatures peering from their eyes,
Suddenly showing in a glance distressed,
Seeking mine pleadingly in sad surmise;

And I have pitied these poor silent friends,
Pitied their wordlessness and twilight minds,
Driven through heedless streets to unknown ends,

Hurried along by rough, unloving binds.
AVICE COULTON

 

BLIZZARD NEWS

During the blizzard in February the stranding of
lorries carrying cattle called forth persistent and
successful rescue efforts by the RSPCA in York—
shire and Essex. .

At Penistone 28 calves, two sheep and ﬁve cows
had to be fed, and by the combined efforts of
Senior Inspector H. Hawxwell (Wakeﬁeld),
Senior Inspector E. Ruck (Sheffield) and Inspec—
tor E. J. Wood (Barnsley) they were moved
through the snowdrifts 2% miles to a railway sid—
ing, from which they ﬁnished their journey to
Shefﬁeld by rail. The cows moved to the railway
siding on foot; the transfer of the calves and
sheep was made in several journeys by Land
Rover through the narrow path cut between the
snow drifts.

There were three lorries in the Essex consign—
ment. Senior Inspector Cooper called out the
help of a snow plough to make a path for them to
Dunmow, from there to Chelmsford, and ﬁnally
to Braintree. The journey began at eight in the
morning and did not ﬁnish until nine in the evena
ing, but the Senior Inspector had the satisfaction
of seeing all the animals unloaded safe and sound
(six bullocks, 50 pigs and one calf).

When the blizzard was at its peak the electric
current was cut on a farm where there were over
a thousand head of tUrkey and 800—1,000 turkey
chicks. The unheated houses put the lives of these
birds in danger. .

They were over half a mile from the farm»_
house across territory almost impossible to pass.
The farmer called on the help of Inspector A. E.
Bishop, who worked with him, and ﬁnally
installed oil heaters. As a result of this action the
lives of the turkeys were saved.

 

WARNING

The two pages following are devoted to reports of RSPCA
prosecutions

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

Manufacturers of

WNEF“MS

HOBSON & SONS CAPS HELMETS LEATHER

' BELTS POUCHES etc. etc
(LONDON) LTD g
Gold and Silver Laces

‘ Embroideries of every
A11 mum-es ,0 descnptlon for ALL

154-164 TOOLEY STREET UNIFORMED SERVICES

LONDON BRIDGE S.E.1 PATTERNS OF CLOTH
and ESTIMATES
Telephone: HOP 2476 (3 lines) will be forwarded free of charge
Telegrams: HOBSON, SEDIST, LONDON

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

FLAGDAY TEMPLE COX CAPTIVEV

GOODS BOLT SLAUGHTERING
PLASTIC BADGES G U N 5

LIST ON APPLICATION

Specially recommended and used by the RSPCA
THE UNIVERSAL BUTTON CO. LTD.

1-9 Birkbeck Street, Bethnal Green, LONDON, 13.2 THREE M ODELS—ALL SILENT lN
Telephone: BIShopsgate 5750 Telegrams: ‘Unihnteo Edo' ACTI O N

 

 

‘UNIVERSAL’ for all animals
GROUP XIII CONFERENCE

‘SMALLS’ for all small animals
I I a.m., SATURZAY’ APRIL l9th ‘MARK 6’ for all animals. Designed for heavy

CAIRN HYDRO HOTEL, HARROGATE use in large Abattoirs and Freezing Works

 

The Chief Secretary of the
Society has promised to attend

 

Mrs G. Collier, Group Hon. Sec.,

83 Spring Street, Shefﬁeld, writes: TEMPLE cox DEVELOPMENT CO, LTD

Questions, Resolutions (with the name of the proposer and '

seconder and their Branch), Discussion ‘points’ and any other HIGH STREET, BROMLEY, KENT
matterfor the Agenda should be sent to me as soon as possible
and, in any case, to reach me not later than Saturday, April 5th,
after which date their inclusion in the Agenda cannot be
guaranteed.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




ROYAL SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS
Founded 1824 Headquarters: 105 Jermyn Street, London, S.W.1

.____ r
PATRONS 1
HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN ‘
HER MAJESTY QUEEN ELIZABETH, THE QUEEN MOTHER l
HER ROYAL HIGHNESS PRINCESS ALICE COUNTESS OF ATHLONE
HER ROYAL HIGHNESS PRINCESS ARTHUR OF CONNAUGHT

PRESIDENT
SIR MALCOLM SARGENT, HON LLD', D MUS, FRCM, FRSA

VICE-PRESIDENTS
THE EARL OF SHAFTESBURY, KP, PC LT.—COL. SIR THOMAS MOORE, BART, CBE, MP ANTHONY GREENWOOD, ESQ, MP

 

THE COUNCIL

Acting Chairman: MRS WALLIS POWER, JP

Acting Vice-Chairman: LT.-COL. J. C. LOCKWOOD JP, TD

POULETT, THE RT HON THE EARL
*PRITCHARD, MRS D.
*RATTRAY, R. F., ESQ, MA, PH.D
*RIECK, H. H., ESQ
SIBLY, w. A., ESQ, MA, JP
SNELL, ALDERMAN THE REV PREBENDARY L. J. B.
MBE, TD, HON.CF (HEREFORD)
*TAIT, MRS, MA
*WALFORD, MRS DESBOROUGH

AOIUS, THE REV. DOM. AMBROSE, OSB, MA
AILWYN, THE RT HON LORD

‘ALLIBERT, MRS

‘ALSOP, ALDERMAN A. J., FRCA, FCIs, JP
ANDERSON, L. K., ESQ., MRCVS, DVM.
BERTIE 0F THAME, THE RT HON THE VISCOUNTESS

1 BRANSOM, MISS L. G., FRSA
BYWATER. H. E., ESQ., MRCVS

GALWAY, THE DOWAGER VISCOUNTEss
GARDNER, HON. JULIET
*HARVEY, MRS J. W., MA
HOBHOUSE, J. s. ESQ.
HOWELL, BASIL P., ESQ, MBE
*HUNTER, MISS
LEE. MRS E. M.

E
COPE, MRS JOHN LLEWELLYN, TH REV CANON LEONARD, L.TH.

DORCHESFER, Lr-COL THE RT HON LORD, OBE, JP LONGMAN, MRS W- WARDs, COLONEL, GT, CMG, OBE ,
ESTCOURT—OSWALD, MISS AGNES, MB (LOND), DPH McPHAIL. MRS ALISON LETITIA, MB, CH-B WILLERT, SIR ARTHUR, KBE
(CANTAB), DOMs MOORE, LT-COL SIR THOMAS, BART, CBE, MP *WINCHESTER, P. 1.. ESQ, Pas, F55

 

 

a.
EVANS’ MRS DAVID’ BA *Denotes Branch Representative

 

OFFICE BEARERS APPOINTED BY THE COUNCIL

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Hon Treasurer—LT-COL J. C. LOCKWOOD, JP, TD Chief Secretary—JOHN HALL, ESQ
Deputy Hon Treasurer—HARRY WHITE, Eso, FCA Assistant Secretaries—D. A. L. CAMM, ESQ, BA
Hon Medical Ofﬁcer—A. N. CRAWFORD, ESQ, FRCSI ALLAN JOINER. ESQ
Bankers—MESSRS COUTTs AND CO, STRAND, LONDON Legal Secretary—R. MURRAY, ESQ
Chief Veterinary Oﬂicer—MAJOR R. C. G. HANCOCK, BSC, MRCVS
Auditors—MESSRS VINEY, PRICE AND GOODYEAR, CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS
Telegrams—WHITEHALL 7177 . Telephone—Whitehall 7177
‘ "———""_ ROSOPOCOA: l‘

 

 

 

FORM OF BEQUEST FOR NATIONAL WORK

To those benevolent individuals who may wish to become benefactors by Will to this

 

Society, the following form is respectfully suggested:—
‘I bequeath to ROYAL SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY To ANIMALS, for the

general purposes of that Society, the sum of E, free of all duties

 

payable at my death and the receipt of the Treasurer for the time being of the said Society shall
be a suﬁlcient discharge for such legacy.’ (If it should be desired that the legacy should be ex—

 

 

pended on some particular phase of the Society’s work, a direction to this eﬁect may be added to the

form of bequest.) ﬂ

 

CAUTION
By the Act of 7 William IV and IVictoria, cap. 26, all Wills or Codicils must be in Writing signed by the

Testator, and attested by two witnesses in the presence of the Testator and of each other.

 

 

 

 

 

r 44— M—
M

 

 




 

 

 

THE OFFICIAL MAGAZINE OF THE RSPCA

 

Vol LIII N04 New Series

APRIL I 958

PRICE FOURPEN CE

6s. per annum. Post Paid

 

 

‘Diahulieal lnstrument' becomes Museum Piece

 

I3

,. 1%
ORDEAL B

 

Y GIN

The rabbit has been despatched—after being held captive in the cruel steel-toothed trap

On July 14 each year, the French celebrate Bastille
Day. It would be fanciful to suggest that July 31
might be named as an English equivalent, but
animal lovers will surely be tempted this year to
dance in the streets on that day, for it is the day
after which the use of the gin becomes illegal.

Designed to catch and hold the trapped animal
in its cruel steel teeth, the gin has been, perhaps,
the greatest single cause of unnecessary animal
suffering since the world began. Millions of rab’
bits have been caught and held in its vicious jaws,
their agonized cries saddening the country air.

If this sounds like the language of emotion, we
would quote from the ofﬁcial Report of the Com;
mittee on Cruelty to Wild Animals (published
1951): ‘The gin trap is a diabolical instrument
which causes an incalculable amount of suffering’.

The Report continued: ‘lts sale and use in this
country should be banned by law within a short
period of time’.

Armed with this recommendation by a Gov—
ernment Committee, the RSPCA has consistently
campaigned for the abolition of the gin. The Pests
Act, 1954, permitted the Minister of Agriculture
to name spring traps whose use should be
allowed after July 31. Recently, he has named
certain traps. These, though sprung, like the gin,
are so made that they will catch and kill instantly
———not catch and hold in agony, like the gin.

We say the gin holds, but in how many a
sprung gin has the trapper found only the
severed leg of his victim! The crippled animal,
in a transport of torture, has tugged and
tugged till he has hobbled away to a burden—
some freedom, which has a period often in
slow death.

Long before the Government appointed the
Committee whose report gave publicity to the
sufferings caused by the gin, the RSPCA was
seeking for a humane alternative.

 

A WARNING
The two centre pages are devoted to reports—in text and pictures—of RSPCA prosecutions.

 




 

“,f ‘.

If"

v

 

April 1958

THE ANIMAL WORLD 45

 

easy stages the animal was drawn by ropes to
safer ground. .

A steep bank, 35 ft. high, now had to be nego’
tiated, and as this was covered with trees, bracken
and rocks, as well as loose soil, a clear path had
to be cut. By two o’clock, when the next stage in
the rescue operations began, the firemen and the
Senior Inspector were exhausted and wet
through.

Orders were sent for a relief crew, allowing the
Deputy Chiewaire Ofﬁcer and Senior Inspector
Faulkner to have a meal and change their clothe
ing. When they returned the men in the relief
crew were hard at work cutting down more
shrubs and trees.

By the use of block and tackle, the heifer was
brought to ground level, resting from time to
time. She ﬁnished her journey to the farm by
tractor.

As a foot—and/mouth disease order was in force,
special permission was given for the animal’s
move.

Bronze Medals

For his gallantry and selﬂess efforts on behalf of
an animal in distress, Senior Inspector Faulkner
has received the RSPCA’S bronze medal and
citation certiﬁcate. The same award has gone to
Police Constable Lawson, who rescued a stray
dog from a culvert at Norbury, London; Station
Ofﬁcer W. Champion, who rescued a dog from
a mineshaft at Dowgas Downs, Sticker, St Aus»
tell; Coastguard Station Ofﬁcer J. Humphreys,
who rescued two sheep from a cliff ledge, at
Stackpole Head, Pembs.; Mr R. Lamb, for his
attempted rescue of a terrier from an ice—covered
gravel pit at Outney Common, Bungay; Mr K.
Jeffs, who resCued a sheep stranded on a ledge at
Graig Fach Quarry, Barmouth, Merioneth; and
Inspector A. F. Wilkinson, who rescued a steer
from a disused water wheel pit, at Wheal Brothers
Mine, Harrowbarrow, near Callington, Cornwall.

 

 

Photograph by courtesy of the Shefﬁeld Telegraph

Senior Inspector Ruck and Miss P. Fraser release a swan and
cygnet after treatment at the Sheffield Branch Dogs’
Home. The swan had undergone a veterinary operation on
the neck and throat for the removal of rubbish and nylon
line which had wound round the beak.

DOG LOVER

' My Dog Lassie by Frank Crew- Muller. 83. 6d.

Mr Frank Crew is an artist in more media than
one and is psychic. Because of his unusually keen
sensibility, he discovered deep attachment to
dogs. When one died, he had the experience
common to animal lovers, ‘Never again!’ But, as
is also usual, he was destined to have another and
this book is its story and that of Mr Crew and his
very remarkable soul—mate wife. As the new dog
was also unusually sensitive, strange things hap’
pened. Mr Crew, who is a born writer, wrote of
them in the Daily Mail with such power as to
evoke fanrmail demanding more. As time went
on, strange things continued to happen. The three
were driven from pillar to post but always with
the conviction that the result, however strange,
would come right. It was, ‘and they were happy
ever after’. -

It is not surprising that Mr Crew felt
obliged to make a book of the story or that
the experience was so intimate that he felt
he must not desecrate it by taking money for
it. He considered carefully the animal welfare
charities and decided to offer the royalties to .
the RSPCA. We are deeply grateful and
honoured. It is not merely desire for more
money for animals that makes us assure
readers that if they buy this book they will
have a deeply human experience of very
remarkable value. Verb. sap. R. F. R.

HIS MASTER’S VOICE

This poem appears in a book of poems by Louis H.
Clark entitled Murmuring Dust, just published in
Australia. It appears in ANIMAL WORLD by courtesy
of The Western Mail, Perth, Western Australia.

Saint Peter laughed as the little dog pressed

His nose through the gates of gold:

‘You’ve been a good d o g, though your master, dead,
Oft kicked you and left you underfed

And chained in the winter’s cold.’

‘Is my master here?’ the little dog whined.

Now Peter misunderstood

And soothed, ‘Fear not, you won’t see his face:
I’ve sent him to the other place

For I knew he wasn’t good.’

Then the little dog turned with a frantic bark
And ran to the other place.

Down through the cavernous depths so dark
He searched by the light of a hell—fire spark

For his vanished master’s face.

Then Peter pensively smiled a space,

Then said, ‘If a man can win

Such love from this creature that seeks his face,
I’ll lift him out of the other place:

Bid the man and his dog come in.’

 

 




April 1958

THE ANIMAL WORLD ' ‘ 43

 

saw one of the men kick it back for the dogs to

again attack it-

The solicitor expressed the gratitude of the
RSPCA to this witness, and the Bench also
thanked her.

A police constable said one of the defendants
told him the rabbit belonged to another of them,
who wanted to get rid of it because it had eaten
its last litter."

(B.2295; Inspector Punter)

 

SWAN FAMILY WIPED OUT

Beauty is rare in a mill town (wrote the Daily
Mail reporter, discussing an RSPCA prosecution
at Chorley). So (he continued) the swans who
made their home at Chorley were welcome
guests. .

They built their nest on a bank and prepared

for a family. But it all ended on the night of a full
moon—the night they were massacred by a miner
with a gun.

In .Chorley Magistrates’ Court the 19vyear—old
miner was ﬁned £30 for causing unnecessary
suffering to a female swan.

He pleaded not guilty to killing its mate, unlaw—
fully. For this offence he was ﬁned £5.

The magistrates ordered the conﬁscation of
the defendant’s shotgun.

A solicitor, prosecuting for the RSPCA, said
a witness heard gunshots in the middle of the
night. Next day she found the male swan dead,
shot through the head.

The female was still in the nest, shot through
the body. She died in the witness’s arms twelve
hours later. No eggs remained in the nest.

The solicitor alleged that the defendant clubbed
the female swan, then shot it, and killed the male
swan.

A veterinary surgeon said the female must have
suffered agony.

The defendant said a swan came for him,
ﬂapping its wings. He tried to keep it away, but
lost his temper and shot it. He was afraid of the
male coming for him, so he shot it too. '

' (B2272; Chief Inspector Cameron)

 

DOG BURIED ALIVE

A labourer admitted at Kington Magistrates
Court that he buried his dog alive after being told
that it had been worrying sheep.

He pleaded guilty to causing unnecessary suffer—
ing to the dog by killing it in an improper
manner.

The Chairman told him that he had pleaded
guilty to a most revolting crime. He was ﬁned £5
and ordered to pay eight guineas costs. He was

also disqualiﬁed from keeping a dog for ﬁve years. -

Prosecuting for the RSPCA, a solicitor said
the defendant knew exactly what he was doing,
and did it very deliberately, and,'in the view of
the Society, in a most inhuman and revolting way.

The defendant was the owner of a black—and—
tan collie bitch, and when he received the coma
plaint about his animal worrying sheep, or some»
thing of that kind, he decided to destroy it. To do
this, he dug a hole in his garden and threw the
dog in alive. Before this he must have prepared a
sack of earth, because he threw one on top of the
dog. He then shovelled the earth into the hole as
fast as he could till the dog was suffocated. The
solicitor added, ‘I cannot imagine a more
deliberate case of cruelty.’ ' - . ‘

The defendant told the Court that he destroyed

, the dog because it was killing lambs. He did not

know anyone in the village to destroy it as he
had only recently arrived. ,
(B.2309; Inspector Anthony)

 

“ALMOST PULPED ’

A man who was said to have killed a three;
montthold puppy by banging it on the ﬂoor,
was told by the chairman of the bench at Mans—
ﬁeld (Nottinghamshire), ‘We ﬁnd it a most horri—
fying case.’ I

The man was sentenced to. six weeks’ imv
prisonment, and banned from keeping a dog for

‘ ten years.

Evidence presented for the RSPCA showed.
that the dog had numerous fractures. Its head
was almost pulped, and it must have been banged
many times on something hard.

It was found buried in the defendant’s garden.

The defendant, who pleaded ‘Not guilty’ to
causing the dog unnecessary suffering by killing
it in an improper manner, said the dog had a ﬁt
and bit him. He banged it on the ﬂoor only once.

(B. 1895; Inspector Baldock)

 

COVER PICTURE

Chief Inspector Tye reported that when this
crossbred Alsatian puppy was taken out of a coal
shed it was malformed through rickets, infested
with lice, and in a shocking state of emaciation.

A man and his wife were brought before the
magistrates at Harleston by the RSPCA for
omitting to give the puppy proper care and atten’
tion. The man was ﬁned £8 and his wife £2.

On the advice of a veterinary surgeon the
puppy was given a humane end. (B. 2399)

 




 

38 THE ANIMAL WORLD

April 1958

 

 

3-.-

This shows the eﬁective way in which the RSPCA Sawyer

Humane Rabbit Trap catches and kills in one operation.

The trap is set in a burrow, but in this illustration earth
has been cut away

The Society offered a prize as an inducement to
men of inventive minds to apply their talents to
the discovery of a device that would relieve ani—
mal suffering. In 1947, the prize was awarded to
Mr Frank Sawyer. Demonstrations showed that
his trap—the RSPCA Sawyer Humane Rabbit
Trap—when set in the burrows (where all rabbit
traps must be set) would catch and kill in one
swift operation.

The Government, through its Humane Traps
Advisory Committee, is still considering humane
traps, and, as reports previously given in ANIMAL
WORLD reﬂect, it has named the Imbra (Marks I
and II) and the Juby trap as permissible for use
to catch rabbits in holes and grey squirrels, as
well as stoats, weasels, rats, mice and other small
ground animals in artiﬁcial tunnels constructed
for the purpose.

It is signiﬁcant that the Imbra Marks I and II
are traps designed by Mr Frank Sawyer, whose

 

work in perfecting humane traps was surely
encouraged by his RSPCA prize. .

All interested in relieving the Sufferings of
trapped animals realized that the intention of the
Pests Act was to abolish the gin. However, there
was a certain amount of doubt that this good
intention would be put into effect.

Doubt was ﬁnally dispelled when Mr Hurd,
MP, in answer to a Question, was told recently
in the House of Commons by Mr Godber: ‘It will
be illegal to use gin traps to catch rabbits or other

animals after July 31 next’.

Thus have our legislators, listening to the
appeals of the RSPCA and others, tolled the
death—knell of a tormentor. One more diaboli—
cal instrument has been relegated to the
museum, where future generations will lift
their hands in horror at the thought that we—
their ancestors—could have shown such a
primitive disregard for the feelings of animals
as to catch them by such callous and primitive
means.

EDITOR

 

lmbra Mark ll, a Government-approved humane rabbit trap

 

ENJOY A GOOD BOOK
and at the same time
HELP THE RSPCA

READ

MY DOG LASSIE
by FRANK CREW
Price 85. 6d. Publishers: Muller

The author is paying all royalties on this book to the RSPCA

My Dog Lassie is available from any bookseller

 

 

 

 




 

40 THE ANIMAL WORLD

April 1958

 

 

PARLTAMENTARY NEWS

Questions
Dogs
MR CHAMPION asked the Minister of Transport
and Civil Aviation how many local authorities
have made an Order under the Road Trafﬁc Act,
1956, designating a road upon which dogs are
not permitted unless on a lead.

MR NUGENT: Up to December 31 last, 84 Orders
have been submitted for conﬁrmation; of these
we have conﬁrmed or agreed to conﬁrm 41 and
rejected seven. The remainder are under con,
sideration. Fourteen Orders are actually in
operation.

MR CHAMPION: Is the Minister aware that if the
law of averages is anything to go by, before the
end of this year 23 people will be killed, 600
seriously injured and some 2,000 slightly injured
as a result of accidents on the road caused by
dogs? Will he not stimulate the local authorities
to propose to him many more Orders than have
been proposed to date? ' ’

MR NUGENT: I think it is essentially a matter fo

local authorities to decide. The enforcement will
be difﬁcult, to say the least of it, and cooperation
from all concerned will be needed to make Orders
effective. I think that the present arrangement is
right.
(EDITORIAL NOTE: Whilst the RSPCA has always
advocated that dogs should be led through busy
streets, it is critical of schemes designating all streets
in any town as not permissible for dogs without leads.
A hardship to which designation may possibly give
rise is to deprive the dog of exercise.)

Cruelty to Animals Act (Dogs)

MR BODY asked the Secretary of State for the
Home Department to what extent the practice
of cutting the vocal chords Of dogs has been
reported by his inspectors in laboratories
rleég7igtered under the Cruelty to Animals Act,

MR R. A. BUTLER: None.

Experiments on Animals

MR BODY asked the Secretary of State for the
Home Department to what extent his inspectors
visit the establishments where experiments on
animals are performed in the course of research
on nuclear weapons in accordance with the pro—
visions of the Cruelty to Animals Act, 1876, in—
cluding inspection without notice; and if he will
give an assurance that the conditions as to pain as
indicated in paragraph 13 of the Return of Experi—
ments performed under the Act during 1956 are
maintained.

MR R. A. BUTLER: Inspections of these establish—
ments are made at intervals without notice, as in

the case of other establishments registered under

, the Cruelty to Animals Act, 1876.

I am satisﬁed from the inspectors’ reports that
licensees at these places observe the conditions of
their licences and certiﬁcates, including the pain
condition.

(EDITORIAL NOTE: As readers are aware, the
RSPCA is opposed to all painful experiments on
animals.)

Grey Squirrels

COLONEL BEAMISH asked the Minister of Agri—
culture, Fisheries and Food why the bonus
scheme for grey squirrel tails is to be discona
tinued when there are clear signs that the num—
bers of this pest may be increasing; what has
been the average cost of this scheme each year
since it began; and if he will reconsider the
decision.

MR JOHN HARE: The Forestry Commissioners
decided to discontinue the scheme because it has
not proved successful in controlling the grey
squirrel population and the expenditure on it is
not therefore justiﬁed.

The cost in each ﬁnancial year the scheme has
been in operation was:

£
1953—54 11,500
1954—55 14,000
1955—56, 8,500
1956—57 20,500
1957—58 26,500

(EDITORIAL NOTE: The RSPCA has consistently op;
posed bonus schemes (usually a price per tail) for the
control of animal numbers. The Society believes that
control should be by speedy and humane means.)

 

STAG HUNTING

It will be recalled that in the January issue of
Animal World reference was made to Sir Frederick
Messer, MP, having introduced a Bill in the
House of Commons aimed at forbidding the
hunting with hounds of wild deer, to provide for
a close season, and to make provision for the
humane control of deer. The Measure was due
for Second Reading on February 21, but un—

‘ fortunately, owing to the lengthy debate on the

preceding Bill, no time was available for a debate
on Sir Frederick Messer’s Measure. The position,
is, therefore, that this Bill goes to the bottom of
the list of Private Members’ Measures, and it is
very doubtful, therefore, whether time will be
found for it to be debated this Session. Sir
Frederick has, however, publicly stated that if the
Bill makes no progress on this occasion he will
re—introduce it as soon as a favourable oppor—
tunity occurs.

 

 

 




 

 

42 THE ANIMAL WORLD

April 1958

 

 

The Shooting of Trespassing Animals

It is an unfortunate fact that many farmers and
other persons still have the impression that a
trespassing dog may be shot out of hand. The
RSPCA by its prosecutions has done much to
dispel this erroneous belief, but there are many
lamentable instances of grave suffering being
inﬂicted.

A recent prosecution emphasizes this point.
There a person, annoyed by the presence in his
grounds of a neighbour’s pet dachshund, ﬁred a
shot gun at very close range, inﬂicting most
painful injuries, from which the dog succumbed.

Counsel for the Society contended that the
shooting was entirely without lawful justiﬁcation
and that the case was a serious one of its kind.

A veterinary surgeon gave evidence to the
effect that the hip bone and pelvis of the dog had
been splintered and that the range, probably,
from the nature of the injuries, did not greatly
exceed six feet.

The bench imposed a ﬁne of £20 and ordered
the accused to pay £21 costs.

(B2649; Inspector Tynan)

RABBIT T ORN T O PIECES

Four youths were ﬁned a total of £60 at Maesteg
for cruelly treating a pet rabbit, which was said to
have been torn into pieces by two terrier dogs.

They admitted taking the rabbit up the moun—
tain’side above their homes on a council housing
estate and setting the two dogs on it.

A solicitor, prosecuting for the RSPCA, told
the magistrates, ‘This is one of the worst cases of
cruelty the Society has come across.’

A man aged 21, his brother (17) and two other
youths—one 17 and the other 18—were given a
month to pay the ﬁnes of £15 each, as well as the
advocate’s fee of three guineas each they were
ordered to pay.

Heard squeals

The solicitor said that on the afternoon of
April 22 a housewife was walking on the moun—
tain—side at Caerau when she heard the squealing
of an animal which was obviously in great pain.
She saw four young men standing in a group.
Inside the circle was a rabbit which was being
attacked by dogs. Every time it tried to escape she

 

BEFORE

 

SHELTER SAVES DOG FROM DEATH

One month’s kindness. in a good home, following treat-
ment by the RSPCA, made the change shown in this dog’s
condition.

inspector Houghton found two blue fawn whippet bitch
puppies lying dead in a fowlhouse. They had died from lack
of food and exposure to winter weather. The blue whippet
in the picture had found shelter in a nearby caravan and
was alive but emaciated and just able to stand. No food was
seen and in the nearby fowlhouse there were two pans, one
empty and the other containing ice. The owner of the three
dogs, prosecuted by the RSPCA at Ashburton Magistrates
Court on a charge of neglecting them, was fined £20 and
ordered to pay £5 l2s. 6d. costs. He was disqualified from
owning a dog or holding a licence for five years. (Case
No. 8.756)

— AFTER

Photos by courtesy of the Devon Constabulary

 

 




 

 

44 THE ANIMAL WORLD

April 1958

 

 

HElFER RESCUED FROM RAVlNE

 

Photos by courtesy of the Daily Express, Manchester

RSPCA Senior lnspector Faulkner and Firemen are seen
rescuing a pedigree shorthorn heifer from a 43-ft. ravine
into which she had fallen. With a weir at one end of the river
and high boulders at the other, the rescuers had no alterna-
tive but to lift her up eight feet of sheer rock and thirty-five

 

feet of an almost perpendicular slope covered with grass
and bracken which broke up easily under foot. After several
hours of dangerous work the heifer was safely brought to
the cliﬁ' top and was returned to her owner none the worse
for her experience.

 

DARING RESCUE OF HEIFER

Inspector and Firemen pit Ingenuity and Courage against Darkness and Winter

It was a dark December evening when the
Deputy Chief Fire Ofﬁcer pointed out to Senior
Inspector Faulkner a stranded heifer. The animal
was standing in a narrow ledge, just clear of the
water, 35 feet below where they were looking
down into a gully at Dunscar Clough, near
Bolton, Lancs.

By the light of hand lamps and torches, helpers
worked in the driving rain to cut away trees to
clear an opening on the cliff in readiness for
rescue operations.

Two long ladders were lashed together and
secured at the top and bottom, and the Senior
Inspector descended to examine the heifer and
assess the problems of the rescue.

A canvas sling, chest band and leather harness
were lowered, and the Deputy Chief Fire Ofﬁcer
sent to Bolton for a night crew of ﬁremen.

Working on the ledge, three ﬁremen and the
Senior Inspector secured the heifer in the sling
and tackle, and the rescue team aloft began to
haul the animal to safety. All went well until the
last few moments. Then, with the heifer only
two feet from safety, parts of the rescue equip!
ment fouled a rock and became fast.

Ropes Broke
Suddenly the ropes broke! The animal slithered

down the ladder, and the four men on the ledge
had to dash off the ledge or they would have
risked serious injury. They had to wade knee
deep in the water.

Senior Inspector Faulkner quickly scrambled
back on to the ledge to examine the fallen animal,
to which he feared he would have to give a
humane end. Happily, the heifer was not hurt,
as she had landed on a prepared bed of straw and
bracken.

As her fall had broken some of the equipment,
rescue operations could not be continued that
night, so the heifer was made as comfortable as
possible, and she was fenced in with straw and
boulders.

In the meantime, the Senior Inspector ob;
tained fodder from the farmer to whom the
heifer belonged, and, by the light of a torch held
by a helper, descended with it to the distressed
animal. He made the descent on a broken ladder!

Next Morning
At early light next morning, ‘he met the firemen
again at the scene. During the night heavy rains
had swollen the river and the animal was between
two weirs. An old sluice gate had to be re—
moved to allow a certain amount of water to run
away. The men worked knee deep in water. By

 

 

 




 

 

46 ' - THE ANIMAL WORLD

April 1958

 

A Bull-Fighting Film
The Brave One

A reviewer in The Times undoubtedly reveals the
true and harmful features of this bullrﬁghting ﬁlm
in the following extract from his appraisal of it:

‘It is in its presentation of the case for bull;
ﬁghting that “The Brave One” is guilty of special
pleading, and, indeed, of calculated dishonesty.
Bullaﬁghting, whether good or bad, must be
judged in its entirety, for this is skill and artistry
in the pursuit of death. Yet in the long sequence
ﬁlmed in the bullaring, death is only hinted at,
and never actually shown. All we are told is that
it is extremely rare for a bull ever to be reprieved.
The ﬁlm therefore lacks the courage of its own
convictions, and succeeds only in holding up a
hesitant mirror to a controversial subject.’

Thus, those who are sensitive about the ex;
ploitation of animals on the cinema screen—and
children, too, because of the British Film Censor’s
‘U’ certiﬁcate which this ﬁlm carries—will be
spared the sickening scenes inherent in the bull;
ﬁght; but those who are endeavouring to make its
true nature known are right to criticize the mis’

' representation of the one’sided picture which
glamorizes the spectacle and its participants, to
the exclusion of the suffering inﬂicted on the ani—
mals involved, and to protest against the showing
of it in cinemas. It would indeed be a pity if ﬁlms
of this sort were to receive any encouraging sup;

port from cinemagoers. The Cinematograph
Films (Animals) Act, 1937, does not embrace the
necessary provisions to enable successful legal
steps to be taken against the action in this ﬁlm,
unfortunately. A. W. K.

Press Letter

On the subject of bull’ﬁghting, the Chief Secre’
tary of the RSPCA is sending this letter to all
newspapers:

Holiday Horror

Although a law, expressing the wishes of the
majority in our country banned bull’ﬁghting a
century ago, the promoters of holidays overseas
annually offer us the prospects of attending the
bull—ﬁght as an inducement to travel. ’

Let us not forget why we have banned the so’
called sport at home! In the bullaﬁght, only the
human beings stand a chance of ‘getting away
with it’——the men in the ring, and the spectators.
The bull is doomed in the end to death by expert
tormentors; the horse will be tormented and
eventually gored.

Can we regard such a spectacle as. a holiday
thrill? If we are going to one of the bullaﬁghting
countries (and they have many real attractions to
offer us) let us avoid the bullaﬁght and tell the
travel agent that we intend to do so; tourist
patronage helps to keep alive what is, after all, a
public exhibition of cruelty to animals. '

 

Animals in Space

Following the report, published in February, that
the Soviet authorities intend to send a second dog
into outer space, the RSPCA sent a strong protest
to the Russian Embassy in London, urging that
the decision be reconsidered and that a living
animal should not be exposed to unknown
hazards and to the possibility of acute suffering.

AMERICAN SATELLITE

Immediately news was received in London of the
successful launching of the earth satellite,
RSPCA Headquarters sent urgent air letters to
leaders of the animal welfare movement in the
USA—Dr Eric Hansen, President, Massachusetts
SPCA, Boston, and Mr Rutherford T. Phillips,
Executive Director, American Humane Associa’
tion—expressing satisfaction at the news of this

achievement. The Society’s letters continued that“

it was particularly satisﬁed that no animal pas—
\senger was aboard the satellite, and it asked to be
associated with the American animal welfare
organizations in any appeal to the authorities that
no animals should be launched into the unknown
hazards of space travel in any future experiments.

Dogs in Distress

With the permission of the Exchange Control of
the Bank of England, the RSPCA has sent a dona’
tion of £50 to Switzerland to help to relieve the
sufferings of 131 greyhounds, some of whom are
now in Switzerland, and 80 in Naples.

Rumours that about 150 greyhounds—some
from England and some from an Italian training
establishment—were in a bad condition in Genoa
were ﬁrst heard in autumn last year. Since then
the RSPCA has been seeking information as to
what could be done to rescue the dogs.

The dogs had been raced in Italy, but racing
was discontinued there. They had then been sent
to Egypt by the Italian racing organization, who
hoped to race them in that country. However,
gambling was not permitted on dog racing in
Egypt, and the dogs were returned.

Continued enquiries led to the discovery that
some of the dogs were in Switzerland and that a
Swiss organization was giving them expert care, as
well as placing them in good homes. A special
fund has been started in Zurich under the title:
‘Fund for the Succour of Suffering Greyhounds
in Milan’. It is to this fund the RSPCA’s

 




 

 

 

 

www._iii_ _._._._.__—___...A .

 

 

48 THE ANIMAL WORLD April 1958

£ 3. (1. Norton, Yorkshire .. Saturday, May 10

Wiltshire—Salisbury, Miss Wormell ‘ Okehampton, Devon » ,, April 5

(br hon sec) 140 3 5 Puckeridge, Hertfordshire ,, ,, 26

Wiltshire—Mid, MissR. Goddard (br hon sec) 6 14 10 Rugby ,, May 3
Melksham, Mrs Garrett (aux hon sec) 33 2 1 Sale, Cheshire ,, ,,

Seend, Mr Dick Gee 8 4 6 Slough ,, April 26

Northwich, Miss Harrop (aux hon sec) 25 12 2 Spalding ,, May 10
Leeds, Mrs Hume (br hon sec) . 5 2 4 Stafford ,, ,,

Ware ,, April 26

Spaniel . Warrington ,, ,, 12

Sidmouth (Winter Gardens) £26 Louthborough £20 Wecsltmorlargl Eranch M 17

Ashford, Kent (Barkers) £27 ( ounty O ection) ” ay

FORTHCOMING FLAG DAYS

Notiﬁed up to time of going to Press on February 28

An appeal is made to any readers who are able to assist these
collections to communicate with their local Hon Secre'
taries, whose names and addresses will gladly be provided

by RSPCA Headquarters

FILM NEWS

The Society’s ﬁlms were sent to the following places for
showing recently:

Trowbridge, Stourbridge, Maidstone, Leek, Lowestoft,
Torquay, Enﬁeld, Woolwich, Richmond, Cheltenham,
Crewkerne, Dalton, Penzance, Frimley, Doncaster, Ketter—
ing, Heywood, Swanscombe, Woking, Salisbury, Penylan,
Dover, Lymington, Queensferry, Ampthill, Edmonton,
Milland, Pitsea, Llandudno, Rugby, Diss, Oakridge Lynch,
Wolverhampton, Weston—super—Mare, Peterborough, Drif—
ﬁeld, Aldershot, Hexham, Forest Gate, Glasgow, Bognor
Regis, Hurdsﬁeld, Hemel Hempstead, West Bergholt,
Burton—upon—Trent, Reigate Heath, Portrush, Lincoln, Bel—
fast, Birmingham, Banbury, King’s Lynn, Ashwell, Little—
hampton, Stockton—on—Tees, Newport, Wellington, Upper
Norwood, Slough, Tunbridge Wells, Machynlleth, Syden'
ham, Llandrindod Wells, Kington.

 

Andover . . Saturday, April 12
Bishop’s Stortford ,, ,, 12
Buckinghamshire County ,, ,, 26
Chorley, near Preston . . . . . . ,, May 3
Congleton, Cheshire ,, ,, 3
Crediton, Devon ,, April 26
Cumberland—North and East
Branch (County Collection) ,, May 17
Cumberland—West Branch
(County Collection) . . . . . . ,, ,, 17
Dover ,, Apri112
Fleet, Hampshire .. ,, ,, 26
Gosport .. ,, ,, 26
Hatﬁeld Rural District - . . . . . . ,, ,, 12
Hemel Hempstead ,, ,, 12
Ifollzleach, Lincolnshire ,, May 10
on on 10
Macclesﬁeld I Friday &ISaturda36r
Apri 25 St 2
77/7\ §‘§ '§ §i§ “-M \ ‘\ % §§§ W\§ § DZ,
1 /
R. s. P. c. A. CONFERENCE

///// , to be held at the . M7
////// WHITE ROCK PAVILION, W
W HASTINGS, SUSSEX. ,,

////// on Saturday, 26th April, |953 /7///

////// Programme ‘ //////
I, Morning Session: I0 a. m. to I2. 45 p. m. //////
////// Registration and Civic Reception by the Mayor '
W of Hastings //////
W Lecture by George Cansdale l////
///l/ Lunch: | p.m. to 2.l5 p.m. //////
////// Afternoon Session: 2. 30 p. m. to 5 p. m. //////
/7//// Discussion by Speakers and delegates of W
interesting subjects . //////

Attendance has to be limited to Presidents, Chairmen and ‘
//[/// Ofﬁcers of Branches and Auxiliaries and members delegated W
W by Branches and Auxiliaries in Group 5, and as many as /7////
l / possible will be welcomed Application forms have been sent
7% to all Branch Secretaries. //////

NOTE . Conference has been arranged for one day only.

,I
//i//

//'§§\\\\\c\ /
/§§%§§§§§§§§§§§§§§zﬂ

W. 0F GRIIIIP5 II

  

.. .\ \ \ ..
' x .:
I. M \
. .
M‘
.' . I ‘\
\w
I ..
‘ \ \
.0 \\\\ \ \ ~
‘\
\\

SAFE“ \ ,
SURE 7/; Rmﬂ Xi”-

cmnvs BOLT PISTOL
FOR ALL ANIMALS

   

    
    

i
\"

ACCLES AND SHELVOKE LTD ° BIRMINGI-IAM ' 6 ' ENGLAND

5456

 

 

 

 

 




 

%%%%%%%%%%%W%%%%e§ o0%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%

LONDON JOINT
ANIMAL FLAG DAY

SATURDAY, IOth MAY, I958

 

HOUSE TO HOUSE COLLECTION — 4th MAY—IOth MAY (incl.)

Will you please help by _
(a) Making a collection in the streets on the 10th May.

(b) Making a house to house collection between the 4th
and 10th May, inclusive.

(c) Making a collection privately amongst your friends,
if you are unable to collect in the street or from
house to house.

(d) Sending the names and addresses of friends who
either live in London or are Willing to come to
London for the purpose of collecting.

(e) Sending a donation.

‘
.

COLLECTORS REQUIRED FOR ALL PARTS
OF THE METROPOLITAN AREA

Please state in which part of London

you would like to collect
:lllllllllllllllllIIllllIIlllllllllIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIlllIlllllIIIIIIIllIllIIIIIIIIIIIIIIlllllllIIIIllllllllllllllllllllll

Offers of help should be sent to the

 

llllllllllllllllllllllllll

'lllllllIllllllllllllllllll

APPEALS DEPARTMENT, RSPCA,
|05 JERMYN STREET, LONDON, S.W.|

%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%

NB No one under l8 years of age may collect either in the
street or from house to house in London.

%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%§%

 

 

%
%
%
%>
<%>
%
%>
32%
%>
as
ah
ah
ah
%
%>
%
%
<%>
<%
%
%
%
%>
<%
‘ %
<$
%
%

* <%>
%

- <%
%>
%>

_ %
%
%>
<%
%
.\ g
%>
$
%
%
%>
%>
%>
%
%

 

<%>%%%%

 

Printed by Shenval Press, Simson Sha nd Ltd, London, Hertford and Harlow, and
publlshed by John Hall for the RSPCA at 105 Jermyn Street, London, SW1

- _ ,_.__,.__‘hi_. ..

 




