 

 

THE AMERICAN SOCIETY

FOR THE

PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS

INCORPORATED BY THE STATE OF NEW YORK
APRIL 10, 1866.

0

THIRTY-FIRST ANNUAL REPORT

FOR THE YEAR ENDING DECEMBER 31, 1896.

 

JOHN P. HAINES, PRESIDENT

 

HEADQUARTERS OF THE SOCIETY:

10 EAST TWENTY-SECOND STREET,

NEW7YORK.

1897.

 




 

Press of J. I. Little & Co.
. Astor Place, New York

 

 

 




 

OFFICERS AND MANAGERS

OF

THE AMERICAN SOCIETY FOR THE
PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO
ANIMALS.

1897.

 

President.
JOHN P. HAINES.

Vice-Presidents.

ELBRIDGE T. GERRY, ALFRED \VAGSTAEF,
BENJAMIN D. HICKS, MORRIS K. jESUP.
REV. MORGAN DIX, S. T. D., jOIIN CLAELIN,
FREDERIC GALLATIN, PARKE GODWIN.
W. C. SCHERMERHORN, CHARLES LANIER.

Executive Committee.

ELBRIDGE T. GERRY. jAMES GRANT WILSON,
BENJAMIN D. HICKS, II‘REDERIC R. COUDERT,
JOSEPH H. CHOATE, FREDERICK W. VANDERBILT,
GEORGE G. HAVEN, WILLIAM FAIINESTOCK,
HORACE RUSSELL, REV. DAVID H. GREER, D,D.,
EDWARD A. HAMMOND, JOEI. Ii. ERIIARD'I‘,
GEORGE G. DEWITT, WILLIAM II. I’ARSONS.
Secretary. Treasurer.
GEORGE G. DEWITT. CHARLES LANIER.
Counsel. Assistant Treasurer.
HORACE RUSSELL. JOSEPH W. EDWARDS.
Superintendent.

CHARLES H. IIANKINSON.

Veterinary Surgeon.
SAMUEL K. JOHNSON.

BROOKLYN OFFICE,
13 Willoughby Street.

F. O. CLARK, [/zspcctor.

 




 

ADDRESS OF THE PRESIDENT.

Ladies and Gentlemen:

I beg to submit to you the following condensed statement of
the work of the Society during the past year :

STATISTICS.
Cases prosecuted 1n the courts . . . . . . 709
Disabled animals temporarily suspended from labor . . . . 3,207
Horses, mules, and other large animals, disabled past recovery, hu-
manely destroyed . . . . . . . 3, 254

Small animals, homeless or disabled past recovery, humanely destroyed 73,197
Disabled horses and othe1 large animals removed from st1eets in ambu-

lances . . . . . . . . . . . 584
Cases investigated . . . . . . . . . . 37,635

The work has been extended by the purchase of the Ambulance
House at 114 Lawrence Street, Brooklyn, which has been thor—
oughly equipped for the service, and is now provided with one
large ambulance, three small ambulances, and eight horses. I
have also to record the purchase of a site for our general Head-
quarters at the northwest corner of Madison Avenue and Twenty-
sixth Street.

In submitting the foregoing statement, it might sufﬁce to ob-
serve that it represents as a whole the largest amount of work
ever done by our Society within the period of one year; but it
may be well to add that in one particular an apparent decrease of
activity is, in fact, a gratifying evidence of success. It will be
observed that while the number of cases investigated during the
past year was 37,635, as against 21,690 in the previous year—
an increase of 15,945—the number of arrests in 1896 was only
709, as against 952 in 1895.

This decrease does not indicate a falling off in the Vigilance of
the Society or its ofﬁcers, but the reverse. In former years we
have often interfered in dog-ﬁghts and cock-ﬁghts, making several

 




 

 

6

arrests of offenders at one and the same time. The appointment
V of salaried agents at Yonkers and at Long Island City, both of
which places were hotbeds of brutality of that kind, has been
justiﬁed by the fact that dog-ﬁghting and cock-ﬁghting have
ceased in those places, and, as we believe, have been Virtually
abolished in this vicinity. This fact alone accounts for a consid-
erable decrease in the number of arrests, and a similar cause is at
work elsewhere. The vigilance of our agents has made them a
terror to evil-doers, so that even the brutally disposed are careful
not to run the risk of punishment. Besides the direct work of
our own employees, the Society has had the practical co-operation
of citizens to an extent greater than ever before in reporting
cases of cruelty ; and as these reports are instantly investigated,
and the offenders, if necessary, prosecuted, it has come to be well
and widely understood that no form of cruelty can be practised
with impunity in this city or its vicinity.

Still further, a humane severity on the part of magistrates has
had an exceedingly wholesome effect. In former years it was
customary to impose a trivial ﬁne. During the past year the
magistrates have generally preferred to impose a heavy ﬁne, with
the alternative of a proportionate term of imprisonment, and
this change of policy has been vindicated by the result. A man,
for instance, who was ﬁned ﬁve dollars for driving a horse when
unﬁt for work, would pay the ﬁne and then very likely take the
risk of another ﬁne of equal amount, in the hope of escaping
arrest while earning enough money before arrest to recoup his
loss and pay a second ﬁne of the same amount. In many in-
stances the lightness of the penalty actually seemed an incentive
to a repetition of the same offence ; but when magistrates began
to impose a ﬁne of twenty-ﬁve dollars for the ﬁrst offence, this
apparent severity operated as an instant and effectual check to
misdemeanors of that class. It has proved in the end to be as
humane to the offenders as it has been effectual in the protection
of animals. Second and third arrests of the same persons for the
same offence have become comparatively rare, and the wisdom of
the courts has been proven by a notable reduction in the whole
number of arrests which the Society is under the necessity of
making.

 




 

7

Thus in various ways the fear of punishment has deterred many
brutal and thoughtless persons from the commission of acts of
cruelty which the law forbids, but I am of the opinion that another
and nobler influence has been at work.

Many acts of cruelty are committed thoughtlessly rather than
maliciously, and while punishment has often restrained the offend—
ers, it has also sharply and effectually commanded thoughtfulness ;
and the growing sentiment of humanity in all classes of the people
has created a public opinion which is more powerful than the law
itself in suppressing any evil practice. In the gradual but steady
increase of a public sentiment which will not tolerate cruelty and
of a public opinion which utterly condemns it, I think we have the
most cheering evidence of the usefulness of this Society, which
might almost be said to have been born in conflict and reared in
ridicule. There is no class of society in which we do not ﬁnd
cordial supporters. Teachers and ministers of religion are our
friends, of course ; the judges of the courts administer the laws in
a spirit of justice; and the members of the Legislature, without
distinction of party, have been ever ready to consider measures
which might be useful to our cause and to reject projects of legis-
lation by which our work might be impeded ; and with few excep-
tions, our heartiest thanks are due to the press, that great former
of public opinion, for its intelligent and earnest advocacy of the
protection of our dumb clients. To all of these causes conjointly
I refer the remarkable decrease in the number of arrests which
have been made during the past year, and I regard it as one of the
best evidences of the success of our work.

Of our shelter work much might be said, but little will sufﬁce.
No part of the work of the Society has attracted so much attention
as this. I am constantly receiving letters of inquiry concerning it
from other parts of the country, and even from abroad, and it is
gratifying to know that our plans and methods have been adopted
in many other places. I have some fears that they may be
adopted in places to which they are not suited, and that some dis-
appointment may follow from the attempt to carry out our plans
under conditions which are incompatible with their entire success.
Thus far I think we may congratulate ourselves upon the com-
plete success of our own experiment. Nothing that has ever

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

8

been done by the Society has been more thoroughly approved by
the public in this city and in the city of Brooklyn. Our system is
perhaps as perfect as it could be made in so short a time, but we
are still learning by experience, and considering the fact that our
work has been emphatically a pioneer work in which we had no
predecessors in whose methods or failures we might have had
examples or warnings, it is gratifying to know that we have made
no mistakes of which complaint has been made or could have been
made with justice. Our methods and appliances have been im-
proved, and other improvements will doubtless be suggested as
time goes on, but thus far I think we are entitled to congratulate
ourselves upon the success of this extensive and difﬁcult part of
our operations. I subjoin the statistics of this department for the

year:

STATISTICS.
Number of dogs received at shelters . . . . . . . 27,587
Number of dogs returned to owners . . . . . . . 3,049
Number of dogs placed in desirable homes . . . . . . 654
Number of cats received at shelters . . . . . . . 43,263
Number of cats returned to owners . . . . . . . 7
Number of cats placed in good homes . . . . . . . 163
Total number of dogs and cats received at shelters . . . . 70,850
Total number restored to owners . . . . . . . . 3,056
Total number provided with homes . . . . . . . 8I7

Of the most notable forward movement of the Society during
the past year I desire to say a few words only. In my last annual
report I earnestly advocated the purchase of a plot of ground in
some central position, easily accessible from all parts of the city,
and suitable for the permanent Headquarters of the Society. I
pressed upon the consideration of the Society the fact that every
lot of ground within the area which we should prefer for that pur-
j. pose was rapidly being bought up by permanent investors ; that
the price of real estate was steadily rising, and that within a very
short time such property as we ought, if possible, to obtain, would
command a price which we could not hope to pay. I felt free to
urge these considerations upon the Society the more earnestly as
I had most consistently deprecated all rash investments and every-
thing that could be characterized as of a speculative nature in

 




 

 

REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE
COMMITTEE.

ONE of the most encouraging features of the Society's work is
the increasing interest manifested by the public in its affairs. An
increase in the memh ,rship of 203 during the past year, the largest
increase in any one year in the history of the Society, is a sub—
stantial testimonial to this fact.

The work of animal protection has been extended by the
appointment of 28 additional Special Agents to enforce the laws
enacted for the protection of animals, some of the appointments
covering remote sections where animal abuse has heretofore been
unchecked.

During the year the Society purchased the property at 114
Lawrence Street, Brooklyn, and will continue to occupy the same
as an Ambulance House.

The Society also acquired the lot on the northwest corner of
Madison Avenue and 26th Street, on which it is proposed to erect
a building adequate to the increased needs of the Society, and to
be occupied exclusively by it as its permanent headquarters.

Changes in the Executive Committee were occasioned by the
retirement of Mr. William P. St. John, and by the election of Mr.
William H. Parsons to ﬁll the vacancy caused by the retirement of
Mr. A. B. Claﬁin.

In the obituary record will be found the names of sixteen
friends of the Society who have been removed by death during
the past year.

Details of the work of the Society for the year 1896 will be
found in the Reports of the President, Treasurer, and Superin-
tendent.

GEORGE G. DE WITT,

.Sl’crutmy.

 




 

REPORT OF THE TREASURER.

NEW YORK, jam/my I, 1897.

To 7716 .A/Izc/‘z'am Society for My anw/fz'wz (2f CHM/{1’ to Animals :
The Treasurer begs leave to submit the following report for
the year ending December 31, 1896, showing a Cash Balance on
hand of $7,200.60.
Respectfully,
CHARLES LANIER,

1 9171511177.

 




 

 

 

 

 

I4

CHARLES LANIER, Treasurer, 2'72 accozmt wit/z THE AMERICAN

INCOME AND EXPENDITURES FOR

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

DR.
To cash on deposit in Union Trust Co., Dec. 31,

1895 . . . . . . . . . . . $13,587 68

To cash in drawer Dec. 31, 1895 . . . . . . . 1,593 62
m $15,181 30

Bequest Leonard Scott . . . . . . . . . . . $5,000 00

“ Lyman W. Case . . . . . . . . . . 2,800 00

“ S. Belle Lilley . . . . . . . . . . 475 00

“ Jas. Simons . . . . . . . . . . . 450 00

“ Rebecca Hickman . . . . . . . . . 3,000 00
11,725 00

“ “ “ Bond and Mortgage, valued
at $2, 000.
Wembers’ Dues and General Donations . . . . . . 7,247 35
Special Donation of Mr. S. P. Avery, In, for Fountains . . . 623 43
Fines . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4,448 55
Rentals, Dividends, Interest, Licenses, etc. . . . . . . . 90,710 74
/

$129,936 37
December 31, 1896, balance . . . . . . . . . . . . . $7,200 60

 

 

 

We, the undersigned, have examined the foregoing accounts of
Cruelty to Animals, and have veriﬁed the same by the Society’s

 




 

Is

SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO IANIMALS.

YEAR ENDING DECEMBER 31, 1896.

 

CR.
Disbursements, January 1st to date—General Maintenance, in-
eluding Printing, Stationery, Light, l’ostage, I’uel, Rewards,
Salaries, etc. . . . . . . . . . $45,286 08
Equipment and Maintenance of Shelters fol Animals in New

York and I>rookl\n . . . . 39,180 80
Ambulance House, New York, \lmaintenanee, including leed, 1‘ 00d
and \Iedicine for Homeless and Abandoned Animals . . . 668 20
Ambulance House, brooklxn, .\l aintenz mee, includingr Ieed 1‘ 00d
and \Iedieine for Homeless and Abandoned Animals . . . . 2,482 35
Equipment, Ambulance House, New York . . . . . . . . 2,430 30
“ “ “ Brooklyn . . . . . . . . 1,787 19
lxent . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3,500 00
I\epairs t0 Ixeal Ilstate, Taxes and Insurance . . . . . . . 4,281 82
Furniture and 1‘ thuies, New York . . . . . . . . . . 2,313 84
“ “ “ Brooklyn . . . . . . . . . . . 145 95
Ilumane Literature . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10,387 55
Library Account . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 569 07
Fountain Account . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . I38 01
Brooklyn Ofﬁce, Maintenance . . . . . . . . . . . . 5,807 61
Legal Expenses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3,057 00
Ullmann Estate, Mrs. 'l‘haycr . . . . . . . . . . . . 700 00
Cash on deposit in Union Trust Co., Dec. 31, 1896 . $6,467 60
“ in drawer, Dec. 31, 1896 . . . . . . . . 733 00
—— 7,200 60

$129,936 37

 

 

 

 

the Treasurer of The American Society for the Prevention of
books and vouchers.

JAMES GRANT WILSON,

' ' '2‘! .
BENJAMIN D. HICKS, lAudZ’Z’Zg COM“ 66

 




REPORT OF THE SUPERINTENDENT.

 

IN submitting the following report I have not attempted to give
an extended review of all the different phases of cruelty inﬂicted
upon animals brought to the Society’s notice, nor to particularize
each case of animal suffering relieved by the prompt attention
given to the dumb patients.

It is gratifying to notice the interest taken in the cause of
animal protection by all classes of our fellow-citizens, the younger
portion of the rising generation seeming to vie with the one pass-
ing away in efforts to mitigate suffering to the dumb race of
beings which give to mankind so many of the beneﬁts of life.

~ Daily, children of tender age bring to the Headquarters of the
Society cats and dogs found in the streets in every condition of
physical distress. ,

Many complaints made by boys and girls of cruelty to horses
and other animals, after investigation, have been found of sufﬁ-
cient importance to warrant the prosecution of the offenders.

Reforms have been accomplished tending to the better con-
dition of all species of animals, their treatment and safety.

The good which has resulted from advice given from time to
time cannot be estimated, and I venture the belief that the pre-
vailing excellent condition of the work-horses of this and adjacent
counties is owing to the existence of the Society with its power to
enforce the humane laws of the State enacted for the protection
of animals.

The necessity for continued vigilance, however, is apparent, as
will be seen by the summary of the work and particulars of some
of the cases prosecuted.

 

 

 

 




 

I7
STABLES.

Special attention has been given to underground stables as
well as those in rear of dwelling houses and alleyways. Many are
unprovided with proper sanitary arrangements or means of escape
for the animals in case of ﬁre.

Several so-called stables were condemned by the Society as
unﬁt for use, and the horses ordered removed to more suitable
quarters. '

DOG AND C(‘DCK FIGHTING AND RAT BAITING.

The promoters of these so-called sports have not had many
opportunities to indulge their brutal propensities by reason of the
vigilance of our ofﬁcers. The duty has been very laborious, neces-
sitating days and nights of watchfulness on the part of the ofﬁcers
detailed for that service.

Two ofﬁcers while watching a rendezvous frequented by dog
and cock ﬁghters were the means of saving a man, a dog, and
several horses from death. The locality is quite lonely. The
ofﬁcers were standing in the doorway of an old building used as
a stable. A strong smell of smoke caused them to look through
a crack in the wall, when they saw that the rear part of the prem-
ises was on ﬁre. By the glare a man was seen lying on a bale
of hay, apparently asleep, and a dog and six horses in the
stalls. Breaking in the door, the ofﬁcers aroused the sleeper,
and with his assistance got all the animals out of the burning
building in safety.

AMBULANCE AND DERRICK SERVICE.

Several cows and horses have been rescued from drowning by
the use of the life-saving derrick, and the ambulances have been
required to remove from the streets to hospitals many disabled
horses and other large animals.

NIGHT PATROL.

Ofﬁcers have been detailed to patrol the streets during the
night, and many cases of animal suffering have been brought to
2

 




 

 

 

 

 

18

their attention, more» especially among cats and dogs. These
poor creatures, abused and chased from street to street by cruel
persons during the daytime, seek refuge in out-of—the—way places
until nightfall, when they venture forth in search of food and
drink. 1

One night the ofﬁcers found ﬁve live kittens lying beside their
dying mother, which had been thrown into the street by some
inhuman person. On another occasion nine dogs were found in
different parts of the city, some starving, others suffering from
various injuries. A small goat was found tied to the wheel of a
truck a short distance from the river front. The poor creature’s
piteous bleating well expressed its misery.

All the above, as well as many others, were taken to the Society’s
Ambulance House and cared for.

The following incident will serve to show the absurdity of the
prevailing belief regarding supposed rabid dogs running at large
in the public streets. The cry of “mad dog” on Sixth Avenue
almost caused a panic among the many women and children
which crowded that thoroughfare. A small mongrel-terrier dog
was taken with a ﬁt and ran into the doorway of a store. Water
was thrown over the little creature until it was almost drowned,
when it was kicked into the street. Recovering somewhat, the
bewildered dog staggered to the sidewalk, when the cry of “ mad
dog” was started by a bootblack, causing people to rush franti-
cally out of the little mongrel’s way.

The animal would have been badly treated but for the oppor-
tune arrival of the Society’s ofﬁcer, who took the dog up in his
arms and carried it to the Ambulance House. The alleged mad
dog is now in the country enjoying the comfortsof a good home.

STOCK YARDS AND SLAUGHTER HOUSES.

The several receiving depots for live stock, such as cattle, sheep,
cows, and calves, have been visited daily, and nothing has been
left undone to insure comfort and protection for the animals.

In only a few instances was it necessary for our ofﬁcers to in-
terfere to prevent abuse to cattle. Several butchers were prose-
cuted and punished for cruelty to cattle and sheep awaiting
slaughter.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

EXPRESS'WAGON HORSES SUFFERING FROM SORES ON NECK AND FOR WANT OF PROPER NOURISHMENT. ARREST No. 22060.

 

 




 

21

CANALS.

Ofﬁcers from Headquarters were detailed for duty on the several
tow-paths of the State. Their report shows that the horses and
mules employed hauling canal-boats are in a much better condition
than heretofore. Only two arrests were made and but ten teams
suspended from labor.

SPECIAL AGENTS.

Reports from special agents, other than those attached to Head-
quarters and the Brooklyn ofﬁce, indicate that the humane work
of animal protection is actively prosecuted, more especially with
regard to the manner in which calves, lambs, and other live stock
are carried from place to place by butchers. Formerly the animals
were tied by the feet and thrown into wagons like bundles of wood;
but now the agents report that small animals are carried unbound
in crates, or covered wagons, with plenty of room to move about,
while live poultry, instead of being crowded into boxes as formerly,
are carried in ventilated coops of sufﬁcient size to insure com-
fort. The presence of an ofﬁcer authorized to enforce the
humane laws of the State is in itself sufﬁcient to deter those who
are naturally cruel and to create a better moral sentiment with
regard to the rights of animals.

The condition of the horses employed at summer resorts has
been bettered ; and the overdriving and use of broken—down
animals stopped. Horses found unblanketed, exposed to the
inclemency of the weather, have been cared for, and, in the lan-
guage of a local agent, “The rights of our dumb friends are
being respected and recognized as never before.”

INCIDENTAL.

Nothing has been left undone to mitigate suffering and prevent
cruelty to animals when brought to the Society’s notice, but it is
impossible, by reason of the small force of uniformed ofﬁcers em-
ployed, to thoroughly patrol the city and annexed districts; yet
the magnitude of the work accomplished shows that the utmost
vigilance was exercised.

Places of amusement, likewise markets, depots, hack-stands,
ferries, horse-marts, race-tracks, excavations, and all other places

 




 

 

 

 

 

22

where animals are employed, bought and sold, have been visited
from time to time by the Society’s ofﬁcers, and in every case
where it was found necessary to interfere in behalf of the animals,
the authority of the ofﬁcers was recognized and respected.

As will be seen by some of the important cases prosecuted, new
phases of cruelty to animals were found, and in some instances
the punishment did not ﬁt the offense.

BROOKLYN DEPARTMENT.

This department of the work includes all the territory lately
annexed and made a part of the City of Brooklyn. The small
force of ofﬁcers attached to the Brooklyn ofﬁce is inadequate to
meet the requirements incidental to the increase of work owing
to the annexation above referred to ; yet under the efﬁcient man-
agement of Inspector Clark much has been accomplished.

SUMMARY FOR THE PAST TEN YEARS.
l

1887 1888 1889 1890 1891 1892 1893 1894 1895 1896

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Cases prosecuted in the
courts ................. 797 991 949 986 1,071 1,080 980 1,010 952 709
Disabled animals tempo-
rarily suspended from
labor ------------------ 3,456 1,749 2,357 4,180 5,725 4,868 3,779 3,596 3,403 3,207
Horses, mules, and other
large animals, disabled
past recovery, humane-
lydestroyed ........... 2,546 2,455 2,812 2,284 2,620 3,365 3,384 2,927 2,987 3,254
Small animals, homeless
or disabled past re-
covery, humanely de-
stroyed ................ 1,202 1,281 705 1,347 2,212 3,060 4,794 24,275 46,898 73,197
Disabled horses, and
other large animals re-
moved from streets in

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ambulances ........... 522 495 407 520 578 618 607 513 576 583
Casesxnvestlgated ....... 3,773 3,052 2.793 3,609 6,891 7,301 7,599 13,603,21,69037,635

In conclusion the undersigned refers with pleasure to the
courtesy and aid (when requested) extended to the Society and
its ofﬁcers by the several departments of the city government,
also to the neat appearance of the Society’s uniformed ofﬁcers,
their promptness and intelligent judgment exercised on all occa-
sions pertaining to their ofﬁcial duties.

Respectfully submitted,

CHARLES H. HANKINSON,
Superintendent.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

> LCZXZ>ZG IOmmm. XZCOXFmO. w>UF< mumczmu >20 _u>m>_..<Nm.U _Z Zcmormm Om mer<<. >mw.mm.ﬁ Zo. mwéom.

 




 

THE FOLLOWING ARE SOME OF THE MORE IMPOR—
TANT CASES PROSECUTED DURING THE YEAR
1896.

Jan. 2.

Jan. 3.

Jan. 4.

Jan. 7.

John McLaughlan, Charles Header, Emil Colarit, Henry Smith, and
James Toole, all residents of the city of New York, were arrested after
midnight by the Society’s local agent of Long Island City, for abusing
a number of decrepit horses. The animals, all lame, sore, and past use,
had been purchased by the prisoners at prices ranging. from ﬁfty cents
to one dollar. The poor creatures were destined for slaughter at
Maspeth, and, to reach that place, would have been compelled to walk
many miles over rough roads. In addition to their general decrepitude,
the horses were urged along and cruelly beaten. After humanely dis—
posing of the suffering animals, the ofﬁcer took the prisoners to the
station house. On being arraigned before Judge Duffy, of Long
Island City, the accused pleaded guilty and were ﬁned ﬁve dollars each,
with a warning that if ever they were brought before the court again
on a similar charge they would be severely punished. ‘

Lewis Weisbaum was driving a horse attached to a heavily loaded
truck through Forty-third Street. The animal was unﬁt to haul a
heavy load, being weak and feeble. VVeisbaum, however, stated the
horse was lazy, and he proposed to reach his destination without delay,
and commenced to beat the animal in a cruel manner. He was ar-
rested and subsequently tried in the Court of Special Sessions, and
sentenced to pay a ﬁne of twenty-ﬁve dollars or to be imprisoned for
ﬁve days.

Sentence was suspended in the case of Joseph Merz, who was ar-
raigned in the Court of Special Sessions on the charge of driving a
horse while suffering from terrible sores on its back, four by ﬁve inches
on one side and four by three on the other side, unprotected from the
harness; also lame from the disease known as “ scratches.” Merz proved,
however, that he was only the driver, and had commenced to work
that day for the ﬁrst time. The owner of the horse, Patrick Carrol,
was ﬁned twenty-ﬁve dollars for permitting the animal to be worked.

Hiram Lee was prosecuted for leaving a number of sheep exposed to
the inclemency of the weather and neglecting to provide the animals
with food or necessary sustenance. The defendant was found guilty
and sentenced to pay a ﬁne of ﬁve dollars or to be imprisoned for
thirty days in the county jail, by Justice George B. Russell.

 




 

 

 

 

 

Jan. 7.

Jan. 7.

26

Walter G. McLane, for driving a horse while lame, sore, and feeble,
attached to a coal wagon, was ﬁned ten dollars by the Court of Special
Sessions.

Lawrence Dougherty, William Miller, Michael Carney, Thomas
Boyle, and Joseph Bromley, employees of the Central Crosstown Sur-
face Railroad, were arrested while in the act of throwing salt and sand
on the roadway between the rails on Seventeenth Street between
Broadway and Fourth Avenue. Sentence was suspended in the case
of Miller, Dougherty, Carney, and Boyle, as they were working under
the direction of Bromley, who was ﬁned one hundred dollars by the
Court of Special Sessions.

Attached to a coal cart was an old gray horse suffering from large
sores on its body, unprotected from the harness, as well as being lame
on the off fore foot. The driver, Martin Kenny, when remonstrated
with for driving such a horse, declared it was none of the ofﬁcer’s
business. He was subsequently arraigned in the Court of Special
Sessions and sentenced to pay a ﬁne of twenty—ﬁve dollars or to be
imprisoned for ten days.

Lewis Victor was ﬁned twenty dollars by Justice Goetting, of Brook-
lyn, for. cruelly beating a horse on the body with a whip. The horse
was cut and bleeding, and was in a weak and feeble condition when
found by the Society’s ofﬁcer.

Edward MCCabe, an employee of the Fourth and Madison Avenue
Railroad, was ﬁned one hundred dollars for salting the tracks on
Madison Avenue between One Hundred and Twenty—third and One
Hundred and Twenty-fourth Streets.

“What is this case?” said Presiding Justice Jerome, of the Court of
Special Sessions, to the Society’s prosecutor, when George Luff, of
F latbush, L. 1., was arraigned for trial upon a charge of cruelty to
animals. “The offence is one of driving a weak horse, one of the
worst I have ever seen during my long experience in the service of
the Society,” was the reply. When seen by the Society’s ofﬁcer the
animal was hauling a wagon loaded with trunks, and could scarcely
walk. It was emaciated, bleeding at the mouth, and feeble from old
age. The horse was taken to the Veterinary Hospital, where its wants
and inﬁrmities were attended to. Luff was as much in need of ﬁnan-

cial assistance as his animal was of physical attention. Having a wife
and several children, he had a hard struggle to provide the necessaries
of life; so when a neighbor gave him the horse, his imagination led
him to believe that his future prospects were much brighter. The
animal, however, proved to be an unfortunate gift for Luff. The court,
after warning him to be more careful in the future, suspended sen—
tence. The horse was humanely destroyed.

 




   

27

Jan. I7. James Smith, of Greenport, was ‘convicted for cruelly beating his

horse on the head and eyes with the butt end of a whip, for which
offence he was ﬁned ﬁve dollars by Justice Alden.

Jan. 24. Mike Kilday was charged before Justice Walsh, of the City Hall

Police Court, Brooklyn, with having beaten his horse in a cruel manner
with the butt end of a whip. The horse was harnessed and attached
to an express wagon, and standing quietly on the street at the time.
The defendant was ﬁned ﬁve dollars.

Jan. 24. Several old, broken-down horses were taken from New York to the

Jan.

Jan.

Jan.

Feb.

Feb.

Feb.

equine-slaughtering establishment belonging to Howard Hashour,
located in the woods of Jamaica, L. I. The animals, when found by
the Society’s ofﬁcer, were fastened to stumps of trees and were in a
pitiable condition from exposure to the cold and rain, as well as suffer—
ing for the want of food and drink. Hashour was prosecuted, con—
victed, and sentenced by Justice Hendrickson to pay' a ﬁne of ﬁfty
dollars or be imprisoned for six months.

25. Michael Burke, Frank Mullen, Michael Boyle, and Edward MCCabe
were arrested for throwing salt and sand between the tracks of the
Fourth and Madison Avenue Railroad at One Hundred and Twenty-
third Street. McCabe was ﬁned one hundred dollars, he being in
charge of the work, while sentence was suspended in the case of the
other defendants.

25. Jacob Kaufman, for driving a very lame horse harnessed and
attached to a loaded wagon, was ﬁned twenty—ﬁve dollars by the Court
of Special Sessions.

25. James Kenny, of Yonkers, for setting a dog to ﬁght, and afterwards
stabbing the animal between the shoulders with a knife, making a gash
about two inches deep and three inches wide, .Was sentenced by City
Judge F. K. Donoghue to the penitentiary for six months.

30. Frederick Glass, because his weak, feeble, and emaciated horse
could not pull the heavily loaded wagon to which it was harnessed, beat
the animal upon its body with a piece of iron gas-pipe, for which
cruelty he was sentenced to paya ﬁne of thirty-ﬁve dollars or to be im-
prisoned for seven days in the city prison by the Court of Special
Sessions.

1. Joseph Rosetti, for over-driving and cruelly beating a team of
horses attached to a Street-cleaning Department cart, was ﬁned ten
dollars by the Court of Special Sessions.

17. E. D. Chittenden, of Corning, N. Y., for neglecting to care for two
horses or provide proper sustenance, was ﬁned ﬁve dollars by Recorder
W. J. Daly.

19. William Murphy, a driver for an east-side grocer, is a man of violent

temper, and, like all such kind, vents his resentment when aroused on

   
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
  




N
3
M
V
W
8
n
.l
V
N
0
3
H
O
n
S
3
V
l—
f
__I
V
M
HO
3
N
O
a:
S
'—
HO
3
3
i

,BROOKLYN

 




J
F

 

 

INTERIOR OF BROOKLYN AMBULANCE HOUSE

 

 

 

*SHOWING OPEN AND BOX STALLS.




 

 

31

setting two dogs to worry and torment it, was ﬁned two dollars by
Justice Burke.

Feb. 27. William Caldwell, of Caldwell, N. Y., was ﬁned thirty dollars by
Justice Evans for neglecting to provide necessary sustenance for several
dogs left in his charge.

Feb. 28. Stephen Saft, of Queensburg, N. Y., for abandoning a horse to die
near the toll gate at Glens Falls, was ﬁned ten dollars by Justice E. L.
Stearn.

Feb. 29. Charles Kulmbach was sentenced to pay a ﬁne of ﬁfty dollars or be
imprisoned for ten days by the Court of Special Sessions for compelling
a horse, totally unﬁt for labor, to haul a loaded wagon.

March 4. Samuel Silbermann was ﬁned thirty-ﬁve dollars by the Court of
Special Sessions for kicking a horse in the stomach ﬁve times. “I
lost my temper,” was his excuse.

March 5. Richard Mahon, for striking a horse on the head several times with
a stick of wood and kicking the animal on the legs, was ﬁned ten dol-
lars by the Court of Special Sessions.

March 5. Salvator Gilotta was ﬁned ten dollars by Justice Van Vechten, of
New Brighton, for driving a very lame horse harnessed and attached
to a heavily loaded baker’s wagon. The animal had been driven sev-
eral hours before being stopped by the Society’s ofﬁcer.

March 18. Michael Kelly, for driving a horse suffering from horrible sores on
back and shoulders, unprotected from the harness, was ﬁned twenty-
ﬁve dollars by the Court of Special Sessions. The animal was har—
nessed to a loaded coal cart.

March 18. John Kain was ﬁned twenty-ﬁve dollars by the Court of Special
Sessions for driving a horse while lame, sore, weak, and feeble. The
horse was hauling a loaded coal wagon.

March IS. Harnessed to a coal cart, loaded with snow, on the night of March
28th, was a worn-out horse. The appearance of the animal attracted
the attention of the Society’s ofﬁcers who had been detailed to inspect
the horses employed by the Street—cleaning Department to cart away
the snow. The horse referred to, in addition to its other inﬁrmities,
was very lame, but that did “ not matter,” said John Loutt, the driver,
when his attention was called to it. Several more loads had to be
taken before the night’s work would be over, and Loutt insisted that he
would ﬁnish his contract. Not until he was on his way to the station
house, and the feeble horse to a stable, did Loutt realize that the animal
had legal rights which must be respected, as was subsequently em-
phasized by the Court of Special Sessions imposing a ﬁne of ﬁfteen
dollars.

March 18. Bernard Mulligan was arrested by an ofﬁcer of the Society for

 




 

32

driving a horse suffering from dreadful sores on the back and breast,
unprotected from the harness. The horse was another of the poor
unfortunates employed by the Street-Cleaning Department to cart away
the snow from the streets, and but for the vigilance of the Society
would have been compelled to labor through the entire night. The
horse was sent to the hospital and its wounds attended to. Mulligan
was subsequently ﬁned twenty-ﬁve dollars by the Court of Special
Sessions.

March 18. For striking his horse in the face with his clenched ﬁst and kicking

and beating the animal in a cruel manner, Samuel F. Weaver was ﬁned
twenty-ﬁve dollars by the Court of Special Sessions.

March Io. Joseph Haley, for unmercifully beating a horse on the head with the

butt end of a whip, was sentenced to twenty days’ imprisonment by
Justice Walsh, of Brooklyn.

March 20. Giuseppe Mileni was cruelly beating a lame horse, one of a team

attached to a contractor’s truck. The poor beast was hobbling along
on three legs in its efforts to keep from falling down. The beating
continued from One Hundred and Forty—eighth Street to One Hun-
dred and Twenty-ﬁfth Street, when a lady, who had followed the
horse all the way, caused the arrest of Mileni. When asked what he
had to say, the defendant replied, “I wanted the horse to keep up.”
Sentenced to pay a ﬁne of ﬁfty dollars or to be imprisoned for ﬁfteen
days by the Court of ‘Special Sessions.

March 20. “ You are charged with driving a horse suffering from sores on the

April I.

back and neck, unprotected from the harness. What have you to
say?” said Presiding Justice Hayes, of the Court of Special Sessions,
to Louis Ranelli. “ I did not think it was much,” replied the defend-
ant. The horse in question was employed by the Street-cleaning De-
partment to cart away refuse paper. The animal, in addition to the
sores, which measured from two to three inches in diameter, was
weak and emaciated. The defendant, in answering to the question,
“ What did you pay for the horse? ” replied, “ Thirty dollars.” The
poor creature was humanely destroyed, and Ranelli ﬁned ﬁfteen dollars
for his cruelty.

Morris Scherkert, of Orchard Street, by his pretended ignorance of
our language, successfully deceived the Court of Special Sessions as to
his guilt in driving a disabled horse. Scherkert is a Polish Jew, and
was arrested by an ofﬁcer of the Society for working a horse so lame
it could hardly put its fore feet to the ground. The soles of both the
feet had dropped below the shoes, and the poor creature was actually
walking on the ﬂesh of the feet. Through a technicality of the law
the offender escaped punishment, and left the court in great glee.
The ofﬁcer felt certain Scherkert would drive the horse again in spite

 

 




 

,33

of the admonition of the magistrate. Sure enough, Scherkert, within
forty-eight hours after leaving court, was again arrested, tried, con-
victed, and sentenced to pay a ﬁne of seventy-ﬁve dollars or be im-
prisoned for thirty. days. The horse was mercifully destroyed.

April I. For driving an old and sore horse, James Hearn was ﬁned ﬁfty dol-
lars by the Court of Special Sessions. The animal was lame from
quittor on nigh fore hoof.

April 8. Fred Kimpey pleaded guilty to the charge of beating a horse on the
head and body with the butt of a whip. He was ﬁned ﬁfteen dollars
by the Court of Special Sessions.

April 8. Patrick McLaughlin was ﬁned twenty-ﬁve dollars by the Court of
Special Sessions for driving a horse suffering from a horrible sore on
the back, six by three inches, unprotected from the harness.

April 9. Max Kupferschmidt was ﬁned twenty-ﬁve dollars by the Court of
Special Sessions for driving a lame, shoeless, and worn-out horse.

April 9. “ A most atrocious case of cruelty l ” exclaimed Presiding Justice
Holbrook, of the Court of Special Sessions, as he gazed on a photo-
graph of a team of horses found harnessed to a wagon belonging to the
People’s Harlem Express Company. “ Sore, weak, emaciated and
unﬁt for any work ” was the speciﬁc charge made against the driver,
Frederick Brewer. The horses left the stable at One Hundred and For-
tieth Street and Eighth Avenue early in the morning on their way to
the lower part of the city to begin their daily work. It was nearly
noon when the Society’s ofﬁcer saw them creeping slowly along at
Broadway and Twenty-third Street. The driver protested there was
nothing the matter with them, “ only a little sore.” After being taken
to the Veterinary Hospital and photographed, it was decided to
humanely dispose of the animals. Brewer was sentenced to pay a ﬁne
of one hundred dollars or be imprisoned for thirty days. (See page 20.)

April 20. John Sullivan, of Brooklyn, was ﬁned twenty dollars by Judge Tighe
for cruelly beating a sick horse ; Robert Stevens was ﬁned a like
amount for permitting the animal to be abused.

April 27. John Slowach, a Richmond County farmer, was ﬁned by Justice
Galloway for compelling a horse to drag a plough while the animal
was suffering from a dreadful sore on the neck.

May 13. William McMahon, for compelling a decrepit horse to haul a loaded
wagon, was sentenced to pay a ﬁne of seventy-ﬁve dollars by the Court
of Special Sessions. A photograph of the animal shown to the court
represented its afﬂictions better than words, and Justice Hinsdale was
moved to exclaim, “ No man, with a spark of kindness in his breast,
would have the heart to work such a horse.” (See illustration, page 23.)

May 16. Charles Gildersleeve, of Palmyra, N. Y., attached a rope to the
3

 




 

May 20.

May 20.

May 29.

  

34

body of a sick horse, then dragged the animal into the roadway and
abandoned it to die. Defendant demanded trial by jury, was convicted,
and sentenced by Justice Rogers to pay a ﬁne of twenty-ﬁve dollars or
be imprisoned in the county jail.

For unjustiﬁably beating a horse on the head and body with a piece
of Georgia pine about an inch thick, the Court of Special Sessions ﬁned
Thomas F. Mulligan seventy-ﬁve dollars. In default of payment he
was imprisoned in the city prison for twenty days. On several occa-
sions Mulligan had been admonished by the Society’s ofﬁcers for abus-
ing his horse, but he paid no attention to the warning.

“You are ﬁned one hundred dollars ; in default of payment you will
be imprisoned in the city prison for thirty days,” was the sentence
pronounced by Presiding Justice Hinsdale, of the Court of Special
Sessions, upon Louis Schneider, of 55 Forsyth Street. Schneider was
convicted of having traded a horse diseased with farcy for a sound
horse belonging to a milkman in Brooklyn. Schneider had traded in
horses before. It was, therefore, presumable that he knew the condi-
tion of the animal he had imposed upon the milkman, while the latter
declared that he knew nothing at all about horses. Farcy is a conta-
gious disease, and is as dangerous to the life and health of human
beings as it is to animals. Justices Hinsdale, Holbrook, and Jacobs,
of the Court of Special Sessions, are determined to punish very severely
all persons convicted of dealing in or of driving horses which are
afﬂicted with either farcy or glanders or any other dangerous disease.

John Slattery, of 343 East II7th Street, was ﬁned twenty-ﬁve
dollars by the Court of Special Sessions for cruelly beating another
man’s horse. A number of men with teams of horses were at work
at an excavation for Columbia University. The ground being soft,
the horses were greatly overtaxed. Slattery had just been unmerci-
fully beating his own team, when another driver found it impos-
sible to get his horses out of a rut into which the loaded truck had
sunk up to the hubs. Slattery offered his services and relentlessly
plied his whip until he was stopped and arrested by the Society’s
ofﬁcer. A second charge was made against Slattery for beating his
own horses, but in the latter case sentence was suspended, the pre-
siding justice warning the defendant that if he were ever arraigned

before the court again on a similar charge he would be severely
dealt with.

“ The driving of decrepit and sore horses must stop,” said Presiding
Justice Jerome, of the Court of Special Sessions, when sentencing John
Brousseau to pay a ﬁne of twenty—ﬁve dollars, or, in default of payment,
to imprisonment in the city prison for ﬁve days. The defendant was
charged with having compelled a lame, sore, and weak horse to drag a

 
  
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
    
   
 
  
  
    
    
  
   
  
  
  
 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

May 29.

June 3.

June 3.

June 5.

JUne 5 .

June 6.

June 8.

June 10.

35

loaded express wagon. The poor creature could hardly put a foot to
the ground.

Emanuel Biocaie, of 36 Thompson Street, was ﬁned twenty-ﬁve dol-
lars by the Court of Special Sessions for kicking a horse several times
in the belly and beating it on the head with the butt end of a whip.
The cruelty was witnessed by a citizen, who caused Biocaie’s arrest.

Something about the horse and wagon George Albert, of Astoria,
was driving, attracted the attention of one of the Society’s detectives.
Upon investigating the interior of the vehicle the ofﬁcer found eight
calves, ranging from two to ﬁve weeks old, piled one on top of another.
The little creatures could not move, and but for the timely arrival of
the ofﬁcer would soon have suffocated. Albert, a big German, laughed
when told he must give the calves more room and make them com-
fortable; he thought the ofﬁcer must be joking. With the assist-
ance of a police oﬁﬁcer the calves were taken out of the wagon, carried
to a stable, and put into a box—stall, where they were fed with milk
from a bottle by a kind-hearted little German woman. Albert was
subsequently ﬁned twenty—ﬁve dollars by Justices Jerome, Hayes, and
Jacobs, of the Court of Special Sessions.

Charles Woods was arrested for beating his horse on the body and
legs with a stick of wood. He had no excuse to offer for his cruelty——
something unusual. The horse appeared willing and gentle. Fined
twenty-ﬁve dollars by the Court of Special Sessions.

William Linehan was driving a decrepit horse attached to a cart.
The animal was lame, weak, and feeble, and suffering in its body and
limbs. “ The horse was lazy,” said Linehan when asked what he had
to say. Fined twenty—ﬁve dollars by the Court of Special Sessions.

Philip Holland, residing at Paterson, N. J., owned a horse. The
animal itself was of little value, but that did not prevent its owner from
making it haul loads of merchandise from Paterson to New York.
The animal was suffering from a ﬁstula on the withers, also sore on
each side of back and breast, and was lame, weak, and feeble. “I
was never stopped in Paterson,” was the defendant’s only excuse for
driving the horse. Sentenced to pay a ﬁne of ﬁfty dollars or to serve
twenty days in the city prison by the Court of Special Sessions.

John Connors was charged the second time with cruelly beating a
poor, decrepit horse with the butt end of a whip. The animal could
not budge the heavily loaded truck to which it was harnessed. Fined
ﬁfty dollars by the Court of Special Sessions.

Henry Wagner, of Brooklyn, was ﬁned ﬁve dollars by Judge Walsh
for working a sorry specimen of a horse. The animal was lame, weak,
and feeble, and evoked considerable sympathy from bystanders.

Henry Bigelow, of Genesee Falls, was sentenced to imprisonment

 




 

June

June

June

June

June

June

June

June

July

I7.

I7.

H

37

dollars by the Court of Special Sessions. The horse belonged to the
Street-cleaning Department.

Because his horse was unable to haul a loaded wagon, William Gentz
cruelly beat the animal with a stick of wood, for which he was ﬁned
'ﬁfteen dollars by the Court of Special Sessions.

Guy Hoyt and Fred Smith, of Townsend, N. Y., were ﬁned ﬁve
dollars each by Justice Everts, at Watkins, N. Y., for overdriving and
otherwise ill-using a horse.

John Kahler was driving a horse so lame that it was only by great
effort the animal kept from falling down. “ The pain the poor creature
must have endured cannot be described,” said the veterinary surgeon.
The horse was harnessed to a truck heavily loaded with merchandise.
An ambulance was summoned and the suffering horse taken to a
hospital. Kahler was sentenced to pay a ﬁne of ﬁfty dollars or to be
imprisoned for ﬁfteen days by the Court of Special Sessions.

Martin Bailey was sentenced to ﬁfteen days in the city prison by
the Court of Special Sessions for driving a horse suffering from what
is known as “ ﬁstula” on the back and unprotected from the harness.

The horse John Doyle was driving was in a sore, weak, and feeble
condition and suffering in its body and limbs. The animal had been
compelled to draw an ice-cream wagon from early morning. For his
cruelty Doyle was ﬁned twenty-ﬁve dollars by the Court of Special
SeSsions.

But for the timely interference of the Society’s ofﬁcer, the emaciated
horse driven by Isaac Pester would have been compelled to drag a
loaded wagon to Harlem and back. The horse was lame from quittor;
shoeless and leg—weary. Pester showed no mercy to the distressed
animal and was very indignant when it was taken away from him and
sent to the hospital for rest and treatment. The offender was subse-
quently ﬁned twenty—ﬁve dollars by the Court of Special Sessions.

Richard Lee, of Long Island City, cruelly beat a horse with a black-
jack, and was ﬁned ten dollars by Judge Ingram for the offence.

The swish of a whip attracted the attention of the Society’s ofﬁcer
patrolling in the vicinity of East Broadway. Looking behind, he saw
John Fluckinger beating a sorry specimen of a horse most cruelly with
a whip. The body of the animal was cut and bleeding. Fluckinger
was ﬁned ﬁfteen dollars by the Court of Special Sessions.

Joseph Steinmuller was charged with having over-driven a horse,
causing the animal physical pain and suffering. Steinmuller is an em-
ployee of the Knickerbocker Express Co. While driving at a furious
rate down Eighth Avenue he nearly collided with a team of car horses
at the junction of Fifty-ninth Street and Broadway. The accident
was avoided only by the skill of the car driver, who pulled his team

 




 
 
  
 
   
 

 

  

38

to one side and allowed Steinmuller a clear passage. The latter
kept up his speed for about half a block, when one of his horses
fell insensible from exhaustion, as was testiﬁed to by a witness.
Vi’hen arraigned for trial in the Court of Special Sessions, Presiding
Justice Jacobs said: “This is a peculiarly aggravated case. The
horse was driven to the point of exhaustion until it dropped down
. insensible in the street. The sentence of the court is that the defend-
"; ant be ﬁned the sum of one hundred dollars. In default of payment,

he will be committed to the city prison for thirty days.” The de-
l fendant took exception to the decision of the C
’ and he appealed to the Supreme Court for
‘ ‘ denied him by Judge Andrews.
, , imposed as above.

July I. Frederick Malcomb, of Brooklyn, was ﬁned ﬁve dollars by Justice

Kellogg, at Yonkers, for cruelly beating a team of horses on the head,
legs, and body with a whip.

ourt of Special Sessions
a new trial, which was
Steinmuller served out the sentence

July 2. Antonio Vetera, of Mount Vernon, N. Y. was

, ﬁned ten dollars for
overloading and overdriving a horse. The animal fell from exhaustion.

 

July 4. Charles Peterson was charged with

The animal was harnessed to a loade
unﬁt for work. P

Special Sessions.
’ July 6. Samuel Ball, of Brooklyn, was ﬁned

for cruelly beating a horse u
,1 because the animal could not
a.

cruelly beating a lame horse.
d ice wagon and was entirely
eterson was ﬁned ﬁfteen dollars by the Court of

 

ﬁve dollars by Judge Harriman

pon the body with the butt end of a whip

pull a heavily loaded wagon.

. J July 8. Charles Donahue, of Brooklyn, was ﬁned ﬁfteen dollars by Judge
Tighe for driving a horse suffering from quittor, causing lameness and

pain. The animal was harnessed to a loaded truck.

25,“? July 8. Otto Schule, of Yonkers, was ﬁned ten dollars by Justice Kellogg for
J“ ' seizing a dog by the hind legs and dashing its head against a rock,
‘ {W thereby breaking one leg and fracturing the skull.

.13 ’ July 9. P. O’Brien, of Long Island City,
, l inhuman manner, was ﬁned three dol

 

 

 

for carrying a dog in a cruel and

lars by Judge Ingram.

July 9. Alexander Porter, of Broome, N. Y.
Justice Edwa

July IO. Michael Eagen was ﬁned twenty-
Sessions for working a team of hor

quarter-crack, and sore breast.
truck.

ﬁve dollars by the Court of Special
ses while very lame from founder,
The horses were harnessed to a loaded

July 16.

The horse driven by Dennis Guiner, a prosperous ice-dealer, was in

 

  

 

 




 

.memkw mom<>>0._. OZQOOJ .ZOOm moz<43m2<llmeOI moz<43m§< Z>Jx00mm

 

 




 

‘318V18 :iO MEIA HO|83iN|-ESnOH SONV'IDBWV NA'WOOHS

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

July 16.

July I8.

July I8.

July 20.

July 25.

July 27.

41

a deplorable condition when seen by the Society’s ofﬁcer hauling a
heavy wagon partly loaded with ice. There was hardly a spot on the
creature’s body where the harness rested that was not sore and bleeding,
and the horse presented a sorry spectacle when released from the wagon
to be photographed. Guiner, when arraigned before Judge Cowing in
the Court of Special Sessions, pleaded guilty to the charge of cruelty to
the horse, and would no doubt have escaped with a light ﬁne if the
District Attorney had not offered in evidence a photograph of the horse
showing the horrible sores on its body. “ It seems almost incredible
of belief that mankind can be so cruel,” said the magistrate. The
District Attorney asked that the full penalty of the law be imposed
upon the offender, but in consideration of his plea of guilty he was
ﬁned one hundred dollars, to stand committed until paid.

“Your horse is unﬁt for such work,” said an ofﬁcer of the Society
to Walter Orzichauski, who was urging a decrepit, lame horse to pull
a wagon heavily loaded with furniture. “ You mind your own busi-
ness,” was the insolent reply, emphasized with a blow of the whip
upon the body of the helpless animal. Orzichauski soon realized to
his sorrow what the ofﬁcer’s business was, for he was promptly put
under arrest, and the horse sent to a hospital for treatment. “ Your
Cruelty to the horse will cost you twenty—ﬁve dollars or ﬁve days in the
city prison,” said Presiding Justice Hinsdale, of the Court of Special
Sessions.

William Russell, of Hoboken, N. J., did not consider 7,200 pounds
of merchandise, in addition to the weight of the truck, too much load
for one horse. The Court of Special Sessions differed with him, and
imposed a ﬁne of ﬁfty dollars for cruelty to the animal.

Lame, sore, weak, and feeble was the condition of the horse owned
and driven by Jeremiah Benson, an expressman. Benson had been
advised several times not to continue working the suffering animal, but
gave no heed to the advice. He was ﬁned ﬁfty dollars by the Court of
Special Sessions for his cruelty.

Coe H. Wise, for permitting a horse owned by him to be worked.
while suffering from quittor, causing lameness and pain, was ﬁned.
twenty-ﬁve dollars by the Court of Special Sessions.

Charles Hill, a resident of Williamsburg, was arraigned before Jus--
tice Harriman upon the charge of having stabbed a dog with a pitch--
fork. The complainant is a stair—builder. He stated to the justice
that~ Hill went to his shop and tried to take away a mastiff valued at:
one hundred and ﬁfty dollars, and because the dog resisted, the defend-
ant jabbed a pitchfork into its body, inﬂicting painful wounds. Hill
was ﬁned ﬁfty dollars.

William Van Dyke, of Watkins, N. Y., was ﬁned ten dollars by

 

 

 




42

Justice Nye for carrying sheep in a wagon in a cruel and inhuman
manner.

George Korsach, of Yonkers, threw a live dog out of a third-story
window, for which he was ﬁned twenty dollars by Justice Kellogg.

 

 

 

 

 

Jerome Schmutzer, for recklessly driving into a team of horses
attached to a mail wagon, thereby injuring the legs of one of the
animals, was sentenced by the Court of Special Sessions to pay a ﬁne
of twenty-ﬁve dollars or to be imprisoned for ﬁve days in the city prison.

 

 

 

 

For beating a horse with a board two inches thick Thomas Finn was
sent to the city prison for thirty days by. Justices Hayes, Holbrook,
and Jerome, of the Court of Special Sessions. The horse was pulling
a load of bricks, and in crossing Fourth Avenue one of the cart wheels
became wedged in the car tracks. It was impossible for, the animal
to pull the load out of the groove, but Finn swore that it could and
it must be done, and to that end he belabored the poor creature with
the plank. The weapon has been added to the Society’s collection of
instruments of animal torture.

 

 

 

Solomon Finkelstein, of Brooklyn, was ﬁned ﬁfty dollars by Judge
Tighe for carrying poultry in a cruel and inhuman manner.

During the hot weather a team of mules driven by John Flynn'
were overcome by the heat. The animals were harnessed to atheavily
loaded truck, and gave out while toiling along Park Avenue. Flynn
in a rage took the butt end of his whip and brutally beat the more
exhausted mule in spite of the remonstrances of indignant spectators.
He was subsequently arraigned before Justices Hayes, Holbrook, and
Jerome, of the Court of Special Sessions. Colonel C. H. McDonald, a
veteran of the late war and a noted horseman, appeared as a witness
for the Society. He described the beating of the mule in detail. “ I
never saw such cruelty before,” he said. The defendant was sentenced
to a ﬁne of fifty dollars or to serve ﬁfteen days in the city prison.

Aug. I4. A horse harnessed to a wagon loaded with furniture belonging to an
expressman got stalled on Third Avenue. Whipping, kicking, shout-
ing, and swearing failed to start the load, although the willing animal
made every effort to do so. Finally, John Miller deliberately took a
knife from his pocket and commenced to prod the animal in the side
with the point of the blade. The now almost frantic horse strained
every muscle, and, as a looker—on said, “ screamed from pain,” but in
vain; the wagon would not budge. The human brute continued to
prod the horse until the blood streamed down the Hanks, and did not
cease until he was stopped by an ofﬁcer of the Society, who provi-

. dentiaily arrived on the scene. The wounded horse was taken to the
hospital for treatment. The trouble was caused by the load of furni-
ture shifting and causing the body of the vehicle to press against the

 

 

 

 

 




43

wheel in such a way as to prevent it from turning. Five horses could
not start the load. Miller was subsequently sentenced by the Court of
Special Sessions to imprisonment in the city prison for thirty days.

Aug. 14. George Merritt was sentenced to pay a ﬁne of twenty-ﬁve dollars or
to serve ﬁve days in the city prison by the Court of Special Sessions
for compelling a single horse to pull a truck loaded with ﬁve thousand
pounds of lead. ‘

Aug. 15. No doubt many of our readers remember a blind man who frequented
Sixth Avenue playing upon an accordion, having a dog clutched in his
arms. The man, Samuel Peyer, is young, strong, and healthy, While
the dog is old, feeble, and diseased with mange. Many complaints
have reached the Society from time to time about the manner in which
Peyer ill-treated the dog, but no person was willing to make a speciﬁc
charge upon which he could be arrested. Money was given freely for
the dog’s sake. “ I could not resist the pleading look of the poor
dumb creature,” said a lady who ﬁnally brought charge against Peyer,
“ so I put a dime into the tin cup. At the same time I asked the man
to change his position and move more into the shade ; the day was very
warm and the dog’s back was terribly sore. He refused to move, so I
came to the Society.” An ofﬁcer was sent immediately to the dog’s relief.
The day was one of the hottest of the season. Peyer was seated in
the shade, the dog’s fore legs upon his shoulder and its back exposed
to the direct rays of the sun. The ofﬁcer quietly requested Peyer to
change his position in order that the dog might be more comfortable.
This Peyer refused to do, and upon attempt to enforce the humane
request, resisted and was arrested. The dog was sent to the Veteri-
nary Hospital for treatment. A photograph of the poor creature’s back
was shown to the justices of the Court of Special Sessions at the trial.
As there were no mitigating circumstances in the :case, the defendant
was sentenced to imprisonment in the city prison for thirty days.
The dog died at the Shelter for Animals. ’

Aug. 15. Patrick McCloskey’s horse could not pull the loaded wagon to which
it was harnessed, so McCloskey got angry and proceeded to vent his
rage upon the unoffending animal by beating it upon the body with a
bar of iron four feet long and nearly an inch thick. “ A most brutal
case,” said the presiding justice of the Court of Special Sessions when
sentencing McCloskey to imprisonment for thirty days in the city
prison.

Aug. 20. Samuel Pomeranz, of New Durham, N. J., for cruelly beating a
weak, feeble, and emaciated horse, which had fallen down and was
unable to get up, was ﬁned twenty-ﬁve dollars by the Court of Special
Sessions.

Aug. 21. Peter McGuire, of Flatbush, was ﬁned ﬁve dollars by Justice Steers

 




   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
  
   
   
  
 
    
 
 
 
   
    
 
 
 
  
 
 

Sept 8.

Sept. 8.

Sept. 8.

Sept. 15.

Sept. 16.

Sept. 16.

Sept. 21.

Sept. 21.

45

and when rescued from drowning by a boy, defendant again seized the
dog and dashed its body to the deck of a boat. He was ﬁned ﬁve
dollars by the Court of Special Sessions.

For throwing a piece of granite at a horse Dennis F. Sullivan was
ﬁned ten dollars by the Court of Special Sessions. From the evidence
of the complaining witness it appeared that Sullivan became enraged
because the animal would not move fast enough. The stone hit the
horse in the belly, and he groaned with pain.

For overloading, cruelly beating, and otherwise ill-using his horse,
Ernest Pertrucco was ﬁned twenty-ﬁve dollars by the Court of Special
Sessions.

Andy Bradley was ﬁned twenty-ﬁve dollars by the Court of Special
Sessions for beating a horse on the head and body with the butt end 'of
a whip.

Morris Zatt, knowing his horse was diseased with glanders, sold the
animal to \Volf Beck for one dollar. The diseased horse was found by
the Society’s ofﬁcer hauling a load of furniture. The disease is dan-
gerous to human as well as animal life and health. Zatt was ﬁned
ﬁfty dollars by the Court of Special Sessions.

Solomon Schenker, of Brooklyn, well knowing his horse was cut and
bleeding on the fetlocks, as well as lame, weak and sore, compelled
the animal to haul a loaded wagon. Schenker was ﬁned ﬁfty dollars
for his cruelty by the Court of Special Sessions.

Nicola Yagonis, for his heartless brutality in striking a horse over
the head with the handle of an ice-axe, was sentenced to pay a ﬁne of
ﬁfty dollars or to serve ten days in the city prison by the Court of
Special Sessions. ‘

“ The sentence of the court is that you be ﬁned twenty-ﬁve dollars,
or be imprisoned for ﬁve days,” said Presiding Justice Holbrook, of the
Court of Special Sessions, to Mark McEvoy, who pleaded guilty to the
charge of driving a teamof horses that were lame and sore. When
found by the Society’s ofﬁcer, the animals were pulling a large furni—
ture van. The breast of one horse was covered with sores ranging
in size from 2 x I to 3 x 2 inches, and unprotected from the harness.
The other horse was lame, weak, and feeble. There were no mitigat-
ing features in the case, and the defendant was found guilty and sen-
tenced as above.

“There is no excuse for driving a disabled horse," said Presiding
Justice Jerome, of the Court of Special Sessions, to John O. Donnell,
who was arraigned before him on the charge of cruelty to animals.
The offence was that of compelling a horse with horrible sores on its
body to haul a cart loaded with sand. No attempt had been made to
prevent the heavy saddle from pressing on and chaﬁng the sores.

 

 

 

 




46

Sept. 22. Steve Tice, of Long Island City, was found guilty on two charges
of cruelty to animals—the ﬁrst, for cruelly beating a mule with a
branch of a tree ; second, for driving the animal while suffering from
a large sore on the breast, unprotected from the harness. Fined
ﬁfteen dollars by Judge Ingram.

Sept. 23. G. I). Morrison, for working a very lame horse, one of a team
attached to an ice wagon, was ﬁned seventy-ﬁve dollars by the Court
of Special Sessions. The horse was hobbling along on three legs
when seen by the Society’s ofﬁcer.

 

Sept. 25. William McGovern was sentenced to pay a ﬁne of one hundred dol-
lars or be imprisoned for thirty days in the city prison by the Court
of Special Sessions, for causing and permitting one George Fredericks
to drive a lame, sore, emaciated, and exhausted horse to an express
wagon.

Oct. I. Michael Skelly, for kicking his horse in the belly and cruelly beating
the animal with a whip, was ﬁned ﬁfty dollars by the Court of Special
Sessions.

Oct. 9. For overdriving, cruelly beating, and neglecting to feed his horse,
Ansel Hitchcock was sentenced to thirty days’ imprisonment in the
county jail and to pay a ﬁne of ten dollars by Justice Tobias.

Oct. 21. Theodore King, of Geneva, for unjustiﬁably shooting and maiming a
dog, was ﬁned ﬁve dollars by Justice Smelzer.

Oct. 22. Ralph McVoy, for beating a dog in a cruel manner, was ﬁned ﬁfteen
dollars by Justice Shoemaker.

Oct. 31. Vincenco Caronbro, of Flatbush, was convicted of assault in the
third degree and ﬁned ten dollars by Justice Steers. The defendant
attempted to stab one of the Society’s dog-catchers with a pair of shears.

Nov. 2. Nineteen horrible sores were found on the body of the weak and
feeble horse which Thomas Clark was driving to a cart. The animal
was sent to the hospital in an ambulance and mercifully destroyed.
Clark was ﬁned twenty-ﬁve dollars by the Court of Special Sessions.

 

 

 

 

 

Nov. 2. Mrs. Nancy Wilson, of Long Island City, was convicted of having
poured kerosene oil over the body of a dog and setting ﬁre to it. She
was ﬁned twenty dollars by Judge Ingram.

Nov. 10. Charles Neileinger, of Edgewater, abandoned his horse to die in a
ditch. The animal had been in the water for several hours when found
by the Society’s ofﬁcer, who lost no time in ending the poor creature’s
sufferings. Neileinger was sentenced to pay a ﬁne of thirty dollars or
to be imprisoned for thirty days.

Nov. II. Alonzo Hopkins, of Sodus, N. Y., for depriving his horse of food
and drink for many hours, was ﬁned ten dollars by Justice Williams.

Nov. 15. Charles Filker, of Easton, Pa., for overcrowding hogs and cows

 




Nov.

Nov.

Nov.

Nov.

Nov.

Dec.

Dec.

Dec.

. 7. Louis Griesler, for pouring grease over the body of a live rat, which

. I2. John Keegan was ﬁned twenty-ﬁve dollars by the Court of Special

. 12. Jacob Gabriel, of Brooklyn, for overloading his horse was sentenced

.21. Samuel Kinsburger, of Mt. Vernon, was ﬁned ﬁfteen dollars by

    
   
 
 
    
 
   
   
   
  
   
    
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   

47

together in a box car, was ﬁned twenty—ﬁve dollars and costs by Justice
Hoye, at Oneonta, N. Y.

15. John Lally, of Brooklyn, was ﬁned seventy-ﬁve dollars by the Court
of Special Sessions for cruelty to his horse. The animal was com-
pletely exhausted and suffering in body and limb, and, to add to its
weight of physical inﬁrmities, Lally beat it unmercifully with a whip.

 

19. Edward Cattien, of Phelps, N. Y., for knocking a horse down with
a neck yoke, then kicking the animal in the belly, was ﬁned ten dol-
lars and costs by Justice Deuchler, at Lyons.

21. William Clifton, of Thomaston, N. Y., was sentenced to sixty days’
imprisonment in the Queens County jail for beating a horse to death
with a shovel.

24. Albert Covey, of South Glens Falls, was ﬁned ten dollars by Justice

Stearns at Glens Falls for over-driving and depriving his horses of
food and drink.

25. Frank Mann, of Richmond Valley, was ﬁned thirty dollars by Justice
Woods, at Tottenville, for abandoning a horse to die.

I. Boaggoa Rusco was sentenced to sixty days’ imprisonment by the
Court of Special Sessions for beating a horse on the body with an iron
crank-handle. The animal was attached to a cart loaded with coal,
and when at Madison Avenue and Forty-ﬁrst Street got stalled in a
snow-bank. The horse being unable to get the load out, Rusco
resorted to the iron crank and struck the animal several blows on the
body, when his arrest was caused bya citizen, who at ﬁrst remonstrated,
but in vain.

5. James DeCarlo, of \Villiamsbridge, was ﬁned twenty-ﬁve dollars by
the Court of Special Sessions for causing and permitting his driver to
drive a weak, sore, and decrepit horse.

he had caught in a trap, and setting ﬁre to the animal, was ﬁned ﬁf-
teen dollars by the Court of Special Sessions.

IO. Irving H. Bartlett, of Smyrna, was ﬁned ﬁfteen dollars by Justice
Briggs for cruelly beating a horse. The poor animal was in such a bad
condition that the Society’s agent humanely destroyed it.

Sessions for cutting off part of a dog’s ears and tail.
to ﬁve days’ imprisonment by Justice Schumacher.

Justice Schatz for overloading and driving a team of horses.

Joseph Wunch, of Brooklyn, for cruelly beating a horse upon the




 

 

 

 

Dec.

25.

. 26.

. 29.

. 29.

 

  

48

body with the butt end of a whip while the animal was vainly trying to
haul a heavily loaded wagon, was ﬁned twenty dollars by Judge \Valsh.

Thomas Donohoe was sentenced to pay a ﬁne of twenty dollars or to
be imprisoned for three days in the city prison by the Court of Special
Sessions for overdriving and cruelly beating a horse attached to a
sleigh. The defendant kept the horse on a gallop from half-past three
in the afternoon until eight o’clock in the evening.

Lawrence Dowling, of Monterey, thought that “God would pro-
vide for his live stock,” so that he did not need to supply them daily
with proper sustenance from his overstocked barn. He was warned
several times, and was ﬁnally arrested, and on his promise to attend to

his animals in future was let off with a ﬁne of ten dollars by Justice
Kels.

George Sheridan and \Villiam Spreer, of Yonkers, went to prison for
ﬁve days in default of payment of a ﬁne for running their horses on
the public highway.

William Lowerman, of Rose, for wilfully neglecting to provide

proper food and shelter for a horse and cow, was ﬁned ten dollars by
Justice R. C. Barless.

 

 




 

 

GNEV‘I YORK -

OUR ANIMAL FRIENDS

AN ILLUSTRATED ﬂr/OzVTHLY zl/[AGAZINE

THE ORGAN OF

The American Society fer the Prevention of

Cruelty to Animals.

 

CONTAINING ORIGINAL AND INSTRUCTIVE ARTICLES OF INTEREST TO ALL ANIMAL OWNERS

 

HEADQUARTERS NOTES COURT NOTES
THE LIBRARY THE VETERINARIAN

YOUNG PEOPLE’S MUSEUM, ETC.

Also Serial and Short Stories and Interesting Miscellany by Well-KnownWriters

SUBSCRIPTION, ONE DOLLAR PER YEAR

Published at the Headquarters of the Society, IO East 22d St., New York.

 

 

 




  

 

 

 

 

 

SO

   
 

MANUAL OF

KINDNESS TO ANIMALS.

For use in Schools, Sunday-schools and
Families;

 

“ Is well calculated to engage the child’s attention, and teac h
it to be humane to all living creatures.”———J\/’ew York Tribune.

“It aims to teach the utility of animals as an argument agains:
their torture, and the preface suggests that individuals are crue-L
‘ through want of thought, rather than want of heart.’ ”

——ZVew York Hera (If.

“ Admirably constructed to impress on the youthful mind kin Ll
treatment to all the brute creation.”—S]>iriz‘ of Me Times.

“ Perusal of its pages warrants us in predicting for it a mos:
useful career.”— Tke Rider and Driver.

“ It is a useful and suggestive book for children, and it con-
tains some instruction which a large number of adults are much
in need of.”——New Yer/e I/Verla’.

“ The little manual should ﬁnd lodging in the living-room of
all families where there are young children, or where horses,
cats, dogs, rabbits, birds, cows, poultry, gold-ﬁsh or other
animals are kept for use or amusement,”———P/zi[aa’eZp/zia Leagrer.

 

Sample copies, four cents each.

 

Published at Headquarters of the Society, IO East
22d Street, New York.

 




 

DRINKING FOUNTAINS FOR MAN AND
BEAST.

 

There is great need for additional drinking fountains for man
and beast. The Society has already erected many and is increas-
ing the number as fast as its funds will allow. A most appro-
priate donation could be made by friends of animals, by the
erection of fountains under the direction of the Society, and
bearing the names of the donors. The cost of erecting a foun-
tain similar to that represented in the above illustration, includ-
ing plate With name of donor, is, in the cities of New York and
Brooklyn, about three hundred dollars.

 




 

 

 

 

SUFFERING FROM QUITTOR, LAMENESS, AND SORES ON NECK EXPOSED TO CHAFING OF HARNESS. ARREST N0. 222 4.

 

 




 

 

SOCIETIES OF NORTH AND SOUTH
AMERICA.

SOCIETIES IN NORTH AND SOUTH AMERICA ORGANIZED AND INCOR-
PORATED SINCE THE FORMATION OF THE AMERICAN SOCIETY
FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS—THE
PARENT SOCIETY—AND IN CORRESPONDENCE WITH IT.

NEW YORK.

THE AMERICAN SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF
CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.

[neorperatezt April 10, 1866.
HEADQUARTERS, IO East 22d Street, NEW YORK.
JOHN P. HAINES, President. IGEO. G. DEWITT, Secretary.

BROOKLYN OFFICE.

13 Wz'tteug/zéy Street.
F. O. CLARK, Inspector.

 

ALABAMA.
Mobile Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
72 Dauphin Street, Meéz'te.
HON. RUFUS DANE, President. |MAJORE.R.QUATTLEBAUM,Sec.
Birmingham Humane Society.
7 I 5 Ezg/zteerzt/z Street, Ez'rmz'ng/tam.
REV. SAMUEL ULLMAN, Pres. I DR. A. N. BALLARD, Secretary.

 

ARKANSAS.
Humane Society of Little Rock, Ark.
Little Rock.
CHAS. F. PENZEL, President. IR. W. PORTER, Secretary.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

56

CALIFORNIA.
The San Francisco Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
1170 Market Street, S6112 Francisco.
, , President. IC. B. HOLBROOK, Secretary.

 

The Los Angeles Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

L05 Aizgetes.

MAJOR \V. G. VVEDEMEYER, Pres. MRS. ELIZABETH MILLS 311L-=
LARD, Secretary.

Santa Clara County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
45 [Vei't/i First Street, San fave.
F. R. SHAFTER, President. IC. C. LELAND, Secretary.
San Diego Humane Society.
San Diego.
ARTHUR G. NASON, President. IH. H. PALMER, Secretary.
The Sacramento County Humane Society.

514 “K ” Street, Saerameizta.
GEO. D. SMITH, President.- II. SCHAD, Secretary.

The Oakland Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
309 Ceiztrat Bail/e Building, Oakland.
REV. CHAS. \V. \V CN’DTE, Pres. I MRS. S. C. SANFORD, Secretary.

Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals of San Bernardinc
County, Cal.
Red/ands.

JOHN B. BREED, President. I HO\VARD ANDREWS, Secretary.

Santa Barbara Humane Society.

Hopkins Bloc/e, Room 5, Saizta Baréara.
RONALD THOMAS, President. I N. F. ASHTON, Secretary.

 

COLORADO.

Colorado Humane Society.

5 faeeﬁseiz Bai/a’iizg, Beaver.
WALTER S. CHEESMAN, Pres. IE. K. VVHITEHEAD, Secretary.




57

El Paso County Branch of the Colorado Humane Society.
Colorado Springs.
WM. F. SLOCUM, President. I F. B. HILL, Secretary.

 

CONNECTICUT.
The Connecticut Humane Society.
Hartford.
RODNEY DENNIS, President. ICHANDLER E. MILLER, See.
The New Haven Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
New Hdﬂetl.
JOSEPH B. SARGENT, President. I EDWIN A. SMITH, Secretary.

 

' DELAWARE.
Delaware Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
606 Market Street, W z’tmz’rzgtorz.
DR. EVAN G. SHORTLIDGE, Pres. I WILLARD H. PORTER, Secretary.

 

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
The Washington Humane Society.

I 317 “F ” Street, N. IV, Wasﬂz’rzgtorz, D. C.
A. S. PRATT, President. I \V. F. STOWELL, Secretary.

 

FLORIDA.
St. Augustine Humane Society.
St. Augustz’rzo.
DR. JOHN K. RAINEY, President. I RICHARD DALE, Secretary.
The Jacksonville Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
fooésorroz'tto.
O. PIERRE HAVENS, President. I B. II. CHADWICK, Secretary.
i Humane Society.

Pensacola.
S. S. HARVEY, President. IFRANK MAURA, Secretary.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

   
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
    
 
   
   
    
    
   
     
    
 
   
   
   
      

58

Tampa Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Tampa.

W. G. BARTHOLOMEW, President. I JENNY E. BABBITT, Secretary

 

GEORGIA.

Georgia Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

1 McIntosh Street, Augusta.

HENRY B. KING, President. | S. R. CRAIG, Secretary.

Atlanta Humane Society.
Atlama.
JOS. F. BURKE, President. | I. s. PANCHEN, Secretary.
The Macon Branch of the Georgia Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals.
Macon.

ROBT. E. PARK, President. | MRS. T. O. CHESTNEY, Secrets:-

. '—
u

Brunswick Branch of Georgia Society for the Prevention of Cruel--
to Animals. T

Brunswick.
M. J. COLSON, President. I N. D. RUSSELL, Secretary.

._.._._——

ILLINOIS.
The Illinois Humane Society. 7
560 Wabash Avenue, Chicago.
JOHN G. SHORTALL. President. | BELDEN F. CULVER, Secretary.

The Aurora Humane Society.
Aurora.

A. K. PERRY, President. | MRS. C. M. FAIRCHILD-ALLE N
Secrets?

Winnebago County Branch of The Illinois Humane Society.
Rockford.
WM. H. FITCH, M.D., President. | MRS. N. T. REVV, Secretary.

Galesburg Branch of The Illinois Humane Society.
227 East M az'n Sireet, Galesozcrg.
A. S. HOOVER, President. | J. F. PERCY, Secretary.




O_mm>mm0 m.<m. r020 ZmOFmOAmO. >20 OI>_um..O m< mac—um: >wmmmﬁ zo. mmwmw.

 




 

.Kmmm .oZ Fwwmm< .Dmk<_o<_2.m DZ< ¥<m>> .wmeI wEmjooma

 

 

 

 

 

 




62

Montgomery County Humane Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
' Animals and Children.

Craze/fera’sm'lle.
GEORGE W. PAUL, President. I A. H. BRADEN, Secretary.

The Evansville Humane Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Women, Children, and Animals.

315 Upper Feurlﬁ Sireet, Evansville.
S. S. SCANTLIN, President. I WILL WARREN, Secretary.

Fort Wayne Humane Society.
82 Clinton Sireez‘, Fort W ayﬂe.
GEO. H. \VILSON, President. I C. E. ARCHER, Secretary.

The South Bend Humane Society.
5025M Beﬂa’.
J. C. KNOBLOCK, President. I H. A. PERSHING, Secretary.

Terre Haute Humane Society.
Terre ﬂame.
DR. E. E. GLOVER, President. I DR. H. C. HUME, Secretary.
Muncie Humane Society.
Mzmez'e.

DR. T. J. BOWLES, President. I W. R. MOORE, Secretary.

The Elkhart Humane Society.

210 Mam Street, EZKeﬂm/z‘.

HON. HENRY B. SYKES, Pres. I LOUIS M. SIMPSON, Secretary.

Wayne County Humane Society.

Rz'eﬂmena’.
J. EDGAR ILIFF, President. I MRS. FRANK M. CLARK, See.
The Humane Society of Peru, Ind.
Peru.

JOHN L. MILLER, President. I MRS. M. PUTERBAUGH, Secretary.

IOWA.

The Iowa Humane Society.
Des Moz’nes.
President. I JOSEPH R. ORWIG, Secretary.

 




63

The Sioux City Humane Society.
Sz'ezex Cz'ly.
HENRY C. GARDINER, President. I EDWARD CROMWELL, Secretary.
The Iowa City Humane Society.
Iowa Cz'ly.
REV. S. R. ELSON, President. I PROF. CARL TREIMER, Secretary.

 

KANSAS.
The Kansas Humane Society.
Wz'e/zz'z‘cz.

J. M. KNAPP, President. MRS. E. G. ROBERTS, Secretary.

 

The Foster Humane Society.
Tofe/ea,
JUDGE CASSIUS G. FOSTER, Pres. I SAM RADGES, Secretary.

 

KEN TU C KY.
Kentucky Humane Society for Prevention of Cruelty.
Masonic Temple, 411 W est Gree/z Sly/eel, Louisville.
JOHN H. LEATHERS, President. I MISS BERTA WILSON, Secretary.

Henderson Humane Society.
Henderson.
L. C. DALLAM, President. | INGRAM CROCKETT, Secretary.

Franklin County Humane Society.

Fraﬁéfen‘.
E. POLK JOHNSON, President. I B. T. FARMER, Secretary.

The Kenton County Humane Society.
915 Seal! Streez‘, Cevz'lzgleiz.
H. A. SCHROETTER, President. | MRS. FRANCES M. MANSER, Sec.

_—

LOUISIANA.

Louisiana State Society for Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
813 Union Street, New Orleans.
FREDERICK W. YOUNG, Pres. | HON. BERNARD C. SHIELDS, Sec.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




     
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
   
   
 
 
 
     
 
 
  
   
   
  
    
   
 
     

64
MAINE.

‘ Maine State Society for the Protection of Animals.

11

‘1 Portland.

HON. STANLEY T. PULLEN, Pres. I DR. H. C. VAUGHAN, Secretary.

The Bangor Humane Society.
Bangor.

JOSEPH F. SNOW, President. I MRS. M. L. PATTEN, Secretary.

Waterville Society for Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
W ateroz'lle.
S. L. ABBOTT, President. | JOHN WARE, Treasurer.

Lewiston and Auburn Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals.

Lezoz'ston.

WESLEY BLANCHARD, Pres. | F. B. SANDS, Secretary.

 

MARYLAND.
. . J, The Maryland Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
\ ‘1‘ ‘ 323 Nortlz Clzarles Street, Baltimore.
l

 

‘ G. M. HUTTON, President. I]. R. WHEELER, JR., Secretary.

l: l MASSACHUSETTS.

The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
5 . 19 Milk Street, Boston.

\ GEO. T. ANGELL, President. | JOSEPH L. STEVENS, Secretary.

Taunton Humane Society.
18 Clinton Street, Tannton.
REV. T. CLAYTON WELLES, Pres. | MRS. THOS. J. TAYLOR, Secretary.

 

: ‘ The Lowell Humane Society.
i 45 Central Street, Lowell.
FRANK P. PUTNAM, President. I , 56¢“?er

 




  

65

MICHIGAN.
Michigan Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Detroit.
HON. T. W. PALMER, President. | MISS JENNIE M. SMITH, Sec.
Kent County Humane Society.
Grand Rapids.
REV. T. W. ILLMAN, President. | A. C. TORREY, Secretary.

Kalamazoo Humane Society.

 

Kalamazoo.
FRED. HOTOP, President. | SAMUEL FOLZ, Secretary.
MINNESOTA.

Minnesota Society for the Prevention of Cruelty.

Relief Society Building, I41 East Nint/i Street, St. Paul.

DANIEL R. NOYES, President. | THOMAS A. ABBOTT, Secretary.

Minneapolis Humane Society.
504 Bank of Commerce Building, Minneapolis.
H. N. AVERY, President. | WILLIAM CHENEY, Secretary.
Duluth Humane Society.
407 Wooa’oriclge Building, Dalatn.

WILLIAM S. VVOODBRIDGE, J. B. MIDDLECOFF, Secretary.
President.

St. Paul Society for Prevention of Cruelty.
141 East Nint/z Street, St. Paul.
W. L. WILSON, President. I M. L. HUTCHINS, Secretary.
Steele County Humane Society.

Owatonna.
B. S. COOK, President. I DR. W. AMOS, Secretary.
The Winona Humane Society.
Winona.
DR. D. A. STEWART, President. | L. D. FROST, Secretary.
5

 
  
 
  
   
 

 

 

 

 
  
 
  
   
  
 
 
   
 
 

 

 
  
   
  
    
  
    
  
  
   

 

 

 

 




     
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
    
   
    
    
    
   
 
   
   
       

66

3 ‘ I ‘ St. Cloud Humane Society.
I St. Cloud.

I JAMES F. BRADFORD, President. I S. S. PARR, Secretary.
I The Red Wing Humane Society.
. ‘ Red Wing.
/ I A. J. MEACHAM, President. ' I DR. F. W. DIMMITT, Secretary.
I . S Rochester Humane Society.
I . Rat/tester.
I PROF. F. D. BUDLONG, President. | J. W. SOULE, Secretary.
I I. . Mankato Humane Society.

I I Mel/Mata.

I DR. J. H. JAMES, President. I DR. C. s. TALBERT, Secretary.
I I: } Stillwater Humane Society.
I . _ ’ Stillwater.

DR. C. B. MARSHALL Secretary. I REV. JAMES A. BROWN, Secretary

 

I” MISSISSIPPI.
' I . The Mississippi Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
I I Nata/leg.

I JOHN P WALWORTH, President. I RICHARD F. REED, Secretary.

 

 

; MISSOURI.
I . The Humane Society of Missouri.

506 53" 508 Columéia Building, Ezg/zt/z amt Locust Streets, St. Louis:
i GEO. D. BARNARD, President. I JNO. W. MUNSON, Secretary.
, The Woman’s Humane Society of Missouri.
I 617 Locust Street, St. Louis.
‘ MRS. T. G. COMSTOCK, President. I MISS M. w. BRADFORD, Secretary

The Humane Society of Kansas City, Missouri.

City Hall, Kansas City.
HON. EDWIN R. WEEKS, Pres. I




  

67

The Humane Society of St. Joseph, Mo.
Central Police Station, St. josep/z.
HUSTON WYETH, President. | PAUL FRANCKE, Secretary.

The Humane Society of Sedalia, Mo.

 

Sea’a/ia.
H. T. WILLIAMS, President. | LEE MONTGOMERY, Secretary.
NEBRASKA.

The Nebraska Humane Society.
I 5 Commereiai National Bank Building, Omaha.
DR. GEORGE L. MILLER, Pres. I H. S. MANN, Secretary.

NEW HAMPSHIRE.

New Hampshire Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
I Market Street, Portsmoat/z.
THOS. E. O. MARVIN, President. [ JAMES R. MAY, Secretary.
The Keene Humane Society.
Keene.

DR. GEO. B. TWITCHELL, Pres. I JULIUS N. MORSE, Secretary.

 

NEW JERSEY.
The New Jersey Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
507 Prudential Baila’iﬂg, Newark.
CHRISTOPHER ROBERTS, Pres. | COL. E. S. EDWARDS, Secretary.

The Hudson County District Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals.

62 Montgomery Street, jersey City.
’GEORGE M. MCCARTHY, Pres. | FRANK VAN WINKLE, Secretary.

Cape May County, N. J., District Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals.
Cape May.
DR. EMLEN PHYSICK. President. | T. R. BROOKS, secretary.

  
 
    
  
   
 
  
     
 
  
    
  
   
   
  
   

 

 

 

 

 

   
   
   

 

 




 

68

The Vineland Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Vine/and.
REV. R. B. MOORE, President. | REV. R. B. MOORE, Secretary.

The Morris County Branch of The New Jersey Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Morrz'sz‘own.
MISS MABEL OLMSTED,President. I MISS LOUISE SHELTON, Sec.
The Camden Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Camden.
WILLIAM J. COOPER, President. | A. T. SELLERS, Secretary.
The Bergen County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals-
Harkmsack.
REV. JOHN C. VOORHIS, Pres. | CHAS. W. VANDERBECK, Sec.
The Society for Prevention of Cruelty to Animals of Union County, N. J -
EZz'zaéef/z.
E. P. EDWARDS, President. J J. C. COLE, Secretary.
Perth Amboy Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Peri/z 1477250)).
DR. FRANCIS \N. KITCI-IEL, Pres. l \VILBUR LA ROE, Secretary.
Cranford, N. J., Branch of The New Jersey Society for the Prevention
of Cruelty to Animals.
Cranfora’.
GEORGE A. MORRISON,President. | ALFRED H. MILLER, Secretary.

 

NEW YORK.
WESTCHESTER COUNTY.

The Sing Sing Branch of The American Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals.

Incorporated March 12, 1883.
Sing Sing.
E. G. BLAKESLEE, President. I MISS M. DUSENBERRY, Secretary.

 

 




 

     
 
  
 
 
   
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
  
 
  
   
    
    
 
  

7O
ONONDAGA COUNTY. .

i The Central New York Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

‘ Incorporated January 16, 1891.

207 Granger Bloc/e, Syracuse.

l . ‘ WILBER s. PECK, President. 1 JOHN R. CLANCY, Secretary.

 

I I ‘ ROCKLAND COUNTY.

Rockland County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

. 2 Incorporated February 20, 1891.
“ . ‘ Nyac/e.
‘1 ‘ DR.I-IARVEY C. GILCHREST, Pres. | WILLIAM K. COLSEY, Sec.

 

CHEMUNG COUNTY.
,, The Elmira Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
“‘1 ‘ Incorporated February 21, 1891.

y . Elmira.
‘ DR. FRANK H. FLOOD, President. | MRS. SEYMOUR DEXTER, Sec.

 

V - BROONELCOUNTY.
Broome County Society for the Prevention of .Cruelty to Animals.
. Incorporated March 23, 1891.
- ‘? Bz’ngizanzz‘on.
DR. L. D. STONE, President. | C. E. SHORES, Secretary.

 

ULSTER COUNTY.

The Ulster County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Incorporated July 25, 1891.
Kingston.
JOHN MCENTEE,IPresident. I W. D. HALE, Secretary.

.——————

JEFFERSON COUNTY.
Jefferson County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
2 . Incorporated December 5, 1891.
i. A W alertown.
REV. S. A. HAYT, D.D., President. | MRS. GEO. H. BABCOCK,Secretary.




   
    
  
  
    
  
    
   
   
   
  
   
  
   
  
   
   
   

71
ALBANY COU NTY.

The Mohawk and Hudson River Humane Society.
Incorporated March 8, I892.
287 State Street, Albam’.
DR. \VM. O. STILLMAN, President. I GEORGE R. HOWELL, Secretary.

 

NIAGARA COUNTY.

The Niagara County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Incorporated May 24, I895.
[mkponﬂ
F. J. SAWYER, President. | IVIISS ALICE E. CROCKER, Sec.

 

CORTLAND COUNTY.

The Cortland County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals.

Incorporated April I7, 1895.
Cort/and.
CALVIN P. WALRAD, President. | ENOS E. MELLON, Secretary.

 

ONEIDA COUNTY.

The Stevens Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals
of Rome, N. Y.

Incorporated March 3I, 1896.
Rome.

EDWARD L. DENIO, President. | ARTHUR A. GILLETTE, Sec.

 

CAYUGA COUNTY.

The Cayuga County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
’ Animals.

Incorporated October 26, 1896.
A uéurn.

THOMAS M. OSBORNE, President. | F. C. LADD, Secretary.

 

 

 

 

 




 

    

72

NORTH CAROLINA.
The North Carolina Society for the Prevention of Cruelty t

2 Legal Building. As/zem'lle.

 

DR. A. M. BALLARD, President. | \VALTER S. CUSHMAN, Secretary.
North Carolina Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children and.
Animals.
W z'l m in gton.
ALEX. S. HEIDE, President. | F. A. LORI), Secretary.
OHIO.

The Ohio Humane Society.
24 East Nz'nt/z Street, Cincinnati.
BENJAMIN C. SMITH. President. I MISS CECILIA RITTER, Sec.
Cleveland Humane Society.
Cleveland.
GEN. JAMES BARNETT, President. | H. A. GARFIELD, Secretary.
The Canton Humane Society.

Frazer Block, Canton.

\V. \V. CLARK, President. | CHARLES R. FRAZER, Secretary.,
Humane Society of the City of Columbus, Ohio.
Colnnzoas.
JULIUS F. STONE, President. | FRANK F. HOFFMAN, Secretary.

Toledo Humane Society.
313 Adams Street, Tolea’o.
JAMES M. BROWN, President. I \V. \V. H. SMITH, Secretary.

The Trumbull County Humane Society.
Warren.
GEORGE-P. HUNTER, President. I T. I). OVIATT, Secretary.
Dayton, Ohio, Humane Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Children and Animals.
8 Nort/z feﬂerson Street, Dayton.
IRWIN C. SOUDERS, President. | H. W. SURFACE, Secretary.

 

0 Animals -




  
 
  
  
 
 
   
 
  
   
 
 
  
   
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
   
  

7 3
Athens Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
All/mm.
D. J. EVANS, President. 1 MRS. A. J. FRAME, Secretary.

The Erie County Humane Society.

Samz’uséy.
A. E. MERRILL, President. I MRS. FANNY F. EVERETT, Sec-

Scioto County Humane Society.

Porz‘smoul/z.
E. E. EWING, President. | HARRY BALL, Secretary.

Ashtabula County Humane Society.
As/zz‘aoulo.

W. M. STRADER, President. | MRS. W. M. PENFIELD, Secretary-

The Chagrin Falls Humane Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to.
Children and Animals.

C/zagrz'zz Falls.
A. H. WILLIAMS, President. I C. E. RYDER, Secretary.

Pomeroy Branch Humane Society.
Pomeroy.
| MRS. W. H. EWING, Secretary.
The Youngstown Humane Society.
Y ozm gsz‘ozmz.
REV. S. R. FRAZIER, President. | MRS. J. J. HAMILTON, Secretary.
Yellow Springs Humane Society.
Yellow Springs.
CHARLES HAMILTON, President. I CHARLES E. ADAMS, Secretary.

Seneca County Humane Society.
Tzﬁﬂ.
DR. E. J. MCCOLLUM, President. | IRVINE N. REX, Secretary.
The Chardon Humane Society.

C/zaro’oﬂ.
| M. L. MAYNARD, Secretary.

   

L. C. COWLES, President.

 

,-"--';'*A* A, . 1‘1 ;

Aimi— -:

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

’T. L. ELIOT, President.

    
  
 

74

OREGON.
The Oregon Humane Society.

72 Third Street, Portland.
IVV. T. SHANAHAN, Secretary.

 

   
  

PENNSYLVANIA.
The Pennsylvania Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

1627 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia.

COL. M. RICHARDS MUCKLE, M. V. B. DAVIS, Secretary.
President.

Women’s Branch of The Pennsylvania Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals.

118 Seath Seventeenth Street, Philadelphia.
MRS. R. P. WHITE, President. | MRS. BRADBURY BEDELL, Sec.

Lancaster County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Lancaster.

E. M. COHN, President. IVVM. D. MOSSER, Secretary.

"The York County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Yerh.
CHAS. A. KLINEFELTER, Pres. | H. W. MCCALL, Secretary.

Western Pennsylvania Humane Society.
440 Sixth Avenue, Pittshargh.
HON. GEORGE WILSON, President. I T. M. PORTER, Secretary.
The Chester County Auxiliary of the Women’s Branch of The Penn-
sylvania Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
West Chester.
MRS. S. C. MASSEY, President. [\VILLIAM S. KIRK, Secretary.

Berks County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
536 Perm Street, Reactihg.
JOHN 13- MISHLER, President. | JOSEPH A. ALLGAIER, Secretary.

Lycoming County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
1120 West Fourth Street, W illiamspert.
MRS. C. LA RUE MUNSON, Pres. | MRS. JAMES P. HERDIC, Secretary.

 

 

 




  

7S

Lackawanna Branch of The Pennsylvania Society for the Prevention
of Cruelty to Animals.
Seram‘oez.

DR. B. H. THROOP, President. IJ. H. FISHER, Secretary.

Northwestern Pennsylvania Humane Society.

. Erie.
HON. .F. F. ADAMS, President. I HON. \V. B. FLICKINGER, Sec.

Luzerne County Humane Association for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Children and Animals.

W flees—B (were.
"JOHN N. CONYNGHAM, President. REV. HORACE EDWIN HAYDEN,

 

Secretary.
The Central Pennsylvania Humane Society.
Altooiza.
MRS. ELIZABETH O. STRATTAN, MISS FLORENCE L. RAIN, Sec.
President.

 

RHODE ISLAND.
Rhode Island Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
61 W esz‘mz'izsz‘er Sireez‘, Providence.

HON. J. C. B. WOODS, President. IJOHN W. ANGELL, Secretary.

Newport Branch of the Rhode Island Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals.

Newton Building, Newfort.
l EDWARD R. WHARTON, Treas.

 

SOUTH CAROLINA.
The South Carolina Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

C/zarlesloiz.
JOHN M. KINLOCH, President. IJ. ALWYVN BALL, Secretary.

Richland County, South Carolina, Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals.

Columbia.
TILMAN WATSON, President. I D. R. FLENNIKEN, Secretary.

 

 
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 
   
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
    

 

 




 

    
   
   
  
  
   
     
   
  
   
     
     
    
  
  
    
     

79

BRITISH NORTH AMERICA.
The Nova Scotia Society for the Prevention of Cruelty.
104 Granville Street, H alt/21x.
JAMES C. MACKINTOSH, Pres. I JOHN NAVI.OR, Secretary.
Hamilton Society for Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Hamilton.
ADAM BROWN, M.P., President. I HENRY MCLAREN, Secretary.
Kingston Humane Society.
I 28 Ba rrz'e Street, [(2'72g5t072.
G. Y. B. PENCE, President. | J. M. CO’I‘ELE, Secretary.
The Canadian Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
196 St. fames Street, Merztreat. ,
CHARLES ALEXANDER, Pres. I GEORGE DURNFORD, Secretary.
Ottawa.
THE MAYOR OF OTTAWA, Pres. I W. C. BAKER, Secretary.
Quebec Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Queéee.

JOHN T. ROSS, President. I A. ROBERTSON, Secretary.
New Brunswick Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Ferry But/ding, [Water Street, St. fe/m.
JOHN V. ELLIS, M.P., President. I S. M. VVETMORE, Secretary.

Toronto Humane Society.

103 Bay Street, Tormzto.
\V. R. BROCK, President. I MISS ANNA I}. DELL, Secretary.

Fredericton Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Fredericton.
GEORGE E. FENETY, President. I CHARLES A. SAMPSON, Sec.
Moncton Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Monetmz.
WILLIAM WILLET, President. I WILLIAM A. MCDOUGALL, Sec.

 

 

 

 

 

I

 




 

 

  
   
   
   
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
 

80

SOUTH AMERICA.

Sociedad Argentina Protectora de los Animales.

Caiie Paraguay IO 59, Buenos Ayres, Argentine Repuolie.
DR. IGNACIO L. ALBARRACIN, ADOLFO E. SACKMANN,
Secretary.

President.
Sociedad Protectora de los Animales.
Rosario de Santa Fe’, Argentine Repuolie.
GUILLERMO BARNETT, Pres. l ROBERTO SDI-IN, Secretary.
Sociedad Protectora de los Animales.
Mendoza, Argeni‘ine Repuolie.
MANUEL T. CABRAL, President. I PASCUAL TELLEMUS, Secretary.
Rio de faneiro, Brazil.
A. M. N. GONCALVES, President. I J. ALBINO DA CRUZ, Secretary.
Sociedad Protectora de los Animales en Venezuela.
Caracas, Venezuela.

SENORA ADELAIDE DE ALMEIDA DR. RAFAEL F. SEIJAS,
E VASCONCELLOS, President. Secretary.
Sociedad Protectora de los Animales de Montevideo.
Montevideo, Uruguay.

JUSTUS CUBILé, President. I LUIS ALBERTO HERRERA, Sec.

WEST INDIES.

Havana, C uoa.

l , . Secretary.

 

 

D. J. G. VILLARAZA, President.
San Domingo, Dominican Repuolie.
RAFAEL ABREU LICAIRAC, Pres. I CESAR N. PENSON, Secretary.
Trinidad Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Port of S/ﬁain, Trinidad.

MEXICO.

Ciiy of Mexico.
VIDAL CASTANEDA Y NAJERA, | EDUARDO L. GALLO, Secretary.
President. |

 

 

 

 

     




SOCIETIES OTHER THAN THOSE OF NORTH AND SOUTH AMERICA.

It will be gratifying to the friends of our cause to learn from the following list of kindred societies that the work of
animal protection has extended to almost every part of the world. Many of these societies are powerful organizations, whose
0‘ merciful inﬂuences have been felt abroad as well as at home through the dissemination of humane literature. The Royal
Society at London was the ﬁrst in the world. It was organized in 1824, and now has branches in every considerable city of
England.

 

LOCATION. NAME OF SOCIETY. ' PRESIDENT. SECRETARY.

 

ALGERIA.
Algiers. . . . .. . . . . Dr. Collardot. . . .. . . Pinguad.
Bona ...... . . . . Miss Faure.
Constantine . ' . G. C. Zengrel.
Oran .
Philippeville ....... . . . . " . . . J. G. Riviere.

AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide ...... 1 .' ..A.Abrahams.
Melbourne . . . . . . . . . iV ictorian S. Prot. A Sir Geo F. Verdon, C. B. . . . Thomas Latham.
Sydney. . . . . . . . . John de V. Lamb . ........... F. Montague Rothery.

AUSTRIA-HUNGARY.
Agram ....... . .. . . . .. S. Prot. A. at Agram. ........ . . . . Fr. Resch.. . . .. . . . . . . . . Eugen Kamenar.
Budapest ........... . . . . . A ........ . . . Dr. Verédy Karoly.
Carinthia . .. . . A. of Carinthia. . . . F. F. Oertl .......... . . . Alfred Kohlert.
Karlstadt. . . . . . . . . Julia Ivancie . . . .. . . . . Josef Algac.
Kaschau. . . . . . ' . . . . . Adalb Pater.
Klagenfurt ........ . . A . . ’ . ‘ " " . . . Franz Jos. Oertl . . . Alfred Kohlert.
Leitmeritz. ...... .. . . . . . . Eduard Schmiedt.
Lemberg . . . . . . . . . Emil von Torosiewicz . . . . . Felix Sewandowsky.
Linz . . . . . ' . Alois Edler von \Varnus . . . . Ossokar Beer.
Prague .. . . . ‘ . . . - Dr. E. von Zahn. . B. Schobl.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

GERMANY— Continued.

Freiberg......

Frankfort- on—Main . .
Frankfort—on—Oder . . .
Friederichstadt ......
Gelsenkirchen ..
Glogau. . . .. . .
Gorlitz
Gotha........
Greifenberg
Greisswald .
Gﬁstrow. . .

Halle . . . .

Hamburg .
Hanover . . . .

Heide
Hilchenbach.
Hirschberg .
Homburg .

Itzehoe . . .

Jena . . . . . .
Karlsruhe . .
Kattowitz . . . .
Kiel...... . .
Koenigsherg ........
Landshut ........ .
Langenschwalbach . .
Lauban . . . . .
Laugensalza . .
Leipzig . .

Liegnitz. . . .

L'1'1beck . . .
Ludwigshafen
Liinebur—g . .

4..)
c:
..p.
mmUmm

0
a

mUiUiUiUicri

Madman

mm

.of Freiberg.........

..u-OIOICIOQICOII.

A
. A in Gelsenkirchen

.of Gorlitz..........

mmmmmmm

MMmQM@Q

Baltic Assn Prot.
in Gustrow . .
of Halle. . . ..
..P A . . . . .
in Hanover.

300
E

3
magmmmm

..A
..A
rg
..1A

IOIOOOI'IIIOOO

O<<d<4

<<<Qo<d

'Aiih'i<iéiiil..ﬂ'fﬂf.
A. in Koenigsberg.

A. in Langenschwalbach

.A. ofLeipzig...

. A. of Liegnitz.

‘ .A.
.C.A. .....

JudgeVehse
Dr. Carl Schenck.........

Schumann...........
W. Pollitz................
Dr. Griittner

. -— Richter.

Major Rudolf von Schollen.
Hartung

. Rev. Mr. Rittner.

Dr. von Marck
Dr. Fritzsche.
Dr. Tramhaijn

.Prof. C. F. Schulz..........

General Count von VValdersee .

.Dr.Lammers...............

H.Feldrnann........-. ..
Rev. Mr. Lauterbach. .. . .
Heinr.M'dcke1v. . . .. . . .. . .
J. H. Raasche..... ...... .
Dr. Schazler...... .
Hetzel...........
Rabbi Cohn..........
H. Sohli‘iter.. .
Major— Gen. Brausewetter . . .
Schonknecht.
Schutt......... ........
Hermann \Vende. ‘
Fischer . .....
Conrad Di‘inckel . . . . . . . . ..
Dr, Otto Giithling . . . . . . .
Dr. F. L. G. VVichmann. . .
Ledere....

.H, Reinecke......_.,.....

Wolf.
Adam Echzeller.
Rev. Mr. Bieder.
J. Sieden.

—— Oberwinter.

—-— Edler.

Trill.

Mauermeister Hensel.

Dr. Bauer.

Emil Meyer.
Sierds.

C. Tungst.
Wagner, II.

Heinr. Schudt.

. Rev. C. D. Bruhn.

Richard Zwetz.

Karl Kellner.
Rudiger.

Franz Sohurk.
Hasperg.

—— Anacker.

Hanke.
Carl Apel.

. Benno Samter.

..F F. Vollers.
..E Laudgraf.
.Aug. Lofﬂer.

‘. .A-: m4 ”t $31—2th

‘9‘ ..J

 




 

Malchin. .
Mayence .
Meissen ..
Mulheim .
Munich . . . .

Munster.

Neisse . . . .
Neubrandenburg
Neumunster . . . . .
Neustrelitz .
NOrdlingen .
Nuremberg
Offenbach . .
Offenburg ...... .
Oldenburg. .
Osnabruck
Passau . .
Pforzheirn ........... .
Pirna . . . .. .

Ploen ..... .

Posen. . . .. .
Remscheid .
Rendsburg . . . . .
Ribnitz
Rostock ..............
Saalfeld ....... . ......
Schleswig

Schwerin . ....... . . .
Sensburg.... .
Siegen ...............

‘
a
\

JDWCD

fir/57.

:mmsamgmammmmmm

o
a
o
‘
I

J)

mmriviui

Solingen ....... . . . . . .

Stargard . . .
Stettin . . . .

.C..A.

..A in \layence . . . . ......

Westphalian S. P. \Vild Birds

and Domestic Fowls. ........ ,

a
n
a
o
o

.C.A.of\

r

tel1tz S. P. C. A ..... ..

/

r
A
C
A
A

A. in Nuremberg .....

A

u
o
a
4
~

. in Ribnitz ....... . .
. A. of Rostock ........

.. A. of Schleswig ..

\eubrandenburg . . . .

. . . Gustav llarmdorf”
. Prof. Schlenger..

Ed. bluhm.

Schmidt..........

Prof. Dr. H. Landois
Prof. Dr. H. Landois.

Pohlis.
Rev. Mr. Steinfiihrer..
E. Messtorff. . .

. B. Praefcke .

Gottlieb \Neld ..... .

Prof. Franz Dosch.
\Vilh. Kahtmann. .

. . T. Scheidemann.
. Adolf Leeb . . . .

Pﬁsterer . . .
Julius Lutsche.
D. H. Foerster .

. Rudolf Schulz ..
. J. Gottl. Arns
. E. Erichsen . . . .
. Ludwig Dolberg.
. Ferd.
. Dr. Mauer.

Matz. . . . . .

Dr. Steen .
Rev. Mr. Floerke .....

'Rud. Koch..... .....

Prof. Schirlitz.
C. Hartmann .

. Rev. Ed. Schneider . . .

. E. Thiel.
. Dr. L. Schaum.
. Aug. Thiel.

Ernst Schurmann.
Dollmann.

.O. Mahn.
.l-—— Kock.

Reckow.

Francis Monniger.

Dr. Mannheimer.

Joseph Altenedes.
Berner.

O. Kaven.
Ed. Reissmiiller.
Paffrath.

: Heinrich Speck.
. H. VVilken.

Heinrich Teutmann.

. Dr. Steen.

Greve.
Dorn.
Dr. Hermann Bellebaum.

. Rev. Mr. Schwarze.

Rev. Ed. Schneider.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

GERMANY— Com‘z'm/ea’.
Strassburg. . . . ........
Straubing . . . .. ..... . .
Strehlen. . . .. .
Striegan. . . .
Stuttgart . .

VVarstein ..
VViesbaden
VVurzburg .
Zabern. . . .
Zittau...............
Zurich ................
Zwickau . ............

HOLLAND.

Alkrnaar
Amsterdam...........

Arnheim .......... . . .‘
Baarn........~.. ‘

. Hasse........... Dr. Schwarz.
......... A. Egglhuber . . . . . . . . G. Dechner.
, . . . . . ..Otto Ulm ....... . . . . ........ Rev. A. Bojanowski.
.. . . ...... . . . . ............ [August Friedrich. . . . . . . . . . . . Schikor.
. A. in VVurternburg. . . . . . .‘Count von Zeppelin ........ . Seybold.
Kropz. . . . . . .......... . -——— VViesmeyer.
. . . . .JCount Bothmer . .. . . . . . .. . . Count Bothmer.
. . . . .. . ................. Dr. Bauerlein ....... . . . . Mr. Eichelsbacher.
A. of Zabern ............. Dr. Pellzer. .. ......... . B. M. Goettgens.
A. . . . . . . . ................. Thiemer ............ . Peschel.
C. A. of Zurich ............. P. H. “’0le ............... T. Thurber—Frei.
A . . . . ................ . . Captain Reich ....... .. . . . —— HOCkner.

r13"

€<&<u
Addmmmh

(DUTTAK'L‘IL‘V.V.

<o<d

. .
rim";

mama; pm

............... H. F. de \Vildt. . . . . . . . . C. J. Reiziger.
S. P. A.. . . ..... ..... B. J. Polenaar ......... . C. F. J. Hanedves.
‘. A. of Arnheim .. . ....... Baron H. A. Elias . . .. M. F. “7. Van Dulm.
’ . J P. Hooft.......... .J.C.vanderVeen.
. C : ._ . . A. P. Scheltus. . . . . . . . . . Van Vooren.
Dordrecht . . .. ........ _. . ’ . .. H. H. Th. Hover . S. Schotel.

Haarlern
Hague, The ..........
Hertogenbosch . .......
Hook of Holland ..... .
Maastricht. . . . ...... . .
Rotterdam. . . . ........
Utrecht . . . . ..........
INDIA.

Ahmedabad . . . . . .....
Bangalore . . . . .......

Q..."

... ... R. A. Klerck. . . ... .. . . L. V. van Rossern.
. F. X. Verheijen . L. G. P. Max.
. . . P. Dregmans . . . . . . . .. J. C. Jansen.
, ..P. H. H. Routs... .. K Vonk.
' he land . . . . . . Hendrik Muller. . . . . D. van Stolk.
. . .. . Van Sorgen ......... . . . . A. Th. Verhey.

%E

P

P. .. . . . . Manibkai.
. . P . . T. T. Leonard.
Bombay. ......... . . . The 3ombay S. P. C. A ........... Hon. Justice Fulton. . . . .. . . K. M. Schoff.

Calcutta. . ............ Calcutta S. P. C. A. ...... .. . . . . . . 'Hon. W. H. Grimley, C. ' . G. W. Lees.
Howrah. ............. Howrah S. P. C. A... . ........ . H. F. T. Maguire. ....
Kandy (Ceylon). . . . .. .1S. P. A. . . . . .. .... . .. . .. . .. .. . .. W. Goonetilleke.

 

 




Kurl‘zlchcc......... S. P. \ . ..Major lV’lc1‘ewethcr,l{.E.
Madr’ « l s S. for l’rot. of A from Vivisec-
‘ ‘ ‘lb' """ ' ' it ( tion and Cruel Ireatment.

Mandalay... :.S. P.A ..... ‘. . ..ReV.J.McGuire.
Rangoon. ..... . .S. P.A........... ...... . ...... . . IF McCarthy.
IRELAND. ;
Belfast. .. . . . . The Ulster S. P. C. A.. . . .. Sir Wm. Q. Ewart, Bart ...... JVV. H. Patterson.
Cork....... .. .gCork S. I’. C. A.. Alexander McOstrich........mJohn C. Newsom.
Dublin. . . . . Dublin S. P. C. A . . .. . . . . . . .Rt. Hon. Lord Ardilaun. . . . . .Ceorge Ryall.
Eilkeifny ............ 3,3: g. 2“ . . .........JThomBs Iiough.
‘ew{oss .......... . aV1s.
Waterford... ......... :VVaterford S. P. C. A ..... . ....... fHon. Dudley F. Fortescue. . .. ”V. Harvey.
. . ,. , g . ., A. p t J Rt. Hon. Lord Maurice)
VVexfordH ........... 1L ounty VV exford S. l. C. A. . . .. . 'i ( Fitzgerald. 5*!
ITALY. i
Bologna ..... .. . . . . . . . lhe Emiliana S. of Zoi‘1phily ....... Cesare Cuadandi. . . . . . . . . . 3T. L. Busevell.
Florence . . . . . . . . . . .; Prot. A. of Florence .................. . . . . .. . . . Gen. Giuseppe Mellini.
Genoa...... 1'3.I.A. ‘
Magenta ....... . . . .. P. A. ‘ . .
Milan ............. The Lombardy Ass’n of Zoophily. . . ‘ Bellinl. . . . . . . . . . . Prof. Giuho Cantu.
Naples ....... . . . . . .‘Naples Anti- Cruelty Soc. ...... . . Princess Mele Barese. . . . O. Carli.
Naples. . . . . . . .. . . . . . Neapolitan S. of Z. . . .,Dr. Adolfo Giordano.
Padua ............ . S. P. A. . . . . . . . . . . . . .. ....... .. Carlo Maluta. . . Abriani CaV. Nob. Tullio.
Palermo. . . . S. P. z’ . l
Rome. . . . . . . .. .1Roman S. against C. to A. . . . Prince A. Doria Pamphili. . T. Serras.
San Remo. . . S. Prot. A. of San Remo. . . . . . .[R€V. Hamilton S. V erschoyle. . O. Piccone.
Turin......... . . .iTurin S. P. A.. .. ...........lBaron F. C. Lucifero. Franco Riccabone

NEW ZEALANI). \

K. Chette.. . . . . V. Ranganatham Nayudu.

T homas Harpur.

 

Christchurch. . S. P. A ..ilVI.l Murph.

Dunedin. . . . . . . ago S. P. . . .Justice Williams . .. . . . . E Quick.

Wellington ....... ...S. P. A...... ............. . . I. ..3T. J. Freeman.
N ORW AV.

Aalesund. . . . .. . .. . . 1.V.Bugge.

Arendal. .7 . . . . Holpeldt . . . . . . . .lH. Regland.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

NORWAY— Continued.
Bergen ............. . .
Christiania. ...........
Christiansand.
Drammen. . . . .
Kongsvinger. . . .
Stavanger . . .
Trondhjem . .

PORTUGAL.

Lisbon . . . . . . . . . . . . .A of Lisbon. . . . . . .. . . . . . . . Julio d’ Andrade. . . . JoaquimCarlos da S1lvasIle1tor
Lisbon .. . . . . . . . . . . P. Domestic Animals of Portugal. Conde de Samodaes Alfredo Henrique da Silva.
RUSSIA. -

Schmidt. . . . . . E. Olsen.
. Georg Sverdrup. . . . Oscar Nickelsen.
. Hans Johnsen.
And. Larssen. . . . . . . Mrs. Thea Ebbett.
Prydtz.
. . E. Ronneberg.
A.Sporck......... A.Gaustad.

Archan ‘el . Archangel Section of Phe Rus—
g .. .......... , SianS.P,.A..

S W. W. Tuweliakin.... . T. A. Piotrowsky.

‘ Astrakhan Section of The Rus— )
S
l

Astrakh an ............ Lieut.-Gen. Hasenkamf.

sianS..P A
Berdichev ...... . . BeggﬁlgevPSiitmn Of lhe Rus‘ S N. M. Kossowsky.. A. Wilensky.

Czernigow Section of The Rus- l
( sianS..P A. .......
S Ekaterinburg Section of The
( Russian S. P. A.
Kalish ........ . . . . .. Kalish Section of The Russian S. P. A. P. P. Manassein.

Kamenetz ............ S hasﬁflngt’fjﬁlf)?’ 0f “1“: .Rf‘s: l T. K. Michalewicz F. K. Czerwiksky.

Czernigow. . . . . .

P. Shitkoff . . . . . . . . N. T. Lewitzky.

Ekaterinburg . ..... . Baron von Taube . K. N. Dementjeff.

Kazan . . Kazan Section of The Russian SP PA T. N. Lange. . . . . . . T. Ioomelewsky.
Kiev. . . . . .. . Kiev Section of The Russian S. P. A. O. O. Eichelmann.
Kovno ...... . . . . . Kovno Section of The Russian S. P. A. Col. A. Daronoff. -— Lindenbaum.

Krementchoug.. ..... 3 Krﬁﬁlsesrllgglgugi) Siction‘. Of The B. M. Orenstein . . . I. B. Orenstein.

 

o o

I odz Section of The Russian S

l

S
Lodz ........ . . .. . . P A . . . . . . . . . S T. Peiser. . . . . . . . . Tul. Pomianowsky.
l
S

Mariopol . . . .

W. Stankewicz... . l). Charadshieffe

S
(
Sh lariopol Section of T he Russian
(

S. PA

 




Mcliiopoi . . . . . .
Minsk..........

Moscow . . . .....
Narva. . .

Odessa.

Omsk

Oofa.

Orel .
Rostov-on—Don . .
Simferopol. . . . . ..
St. Petersburg . .

Stavropol. . . .

Thuemen (Siberia). . .
Tiﬁis ..............

Uman .......
Vilna...............

Voronezh ...........

\Varsaw. . . .

Zytomir. . . .
SCOTLAND.

Aberdeen ........ . . .

Arbroath. . ...........

Ayr . . .

Dundee ..............

Dunfermline. .

Edinburgh ............

Forfar.....

Glasgow. ..... . . .

Inverness. ............

S..P
.S..P

5 110111011111 Section of The Rns-i
1 sianS.1’..\.......... .. .5
\linsk Section of 11113 Russi. m S. 1’ A.
Moscow Sect1onof 'l helxussian S. P.A.
Narva Section of The Russian S. P.A.

Odessa S. Prot. A ................

. Omsk Section of The Russian S.P.A. F

Oofa Section of The Russian S.P.A.
Orel Section of The Russian S. P. A.
Don Section of The Russian S. P. A.
Taurida Section of The Russian S.P.A.
The Russian S. Prot. A . . . . . . . . . ..
5 Stavropol Section of The Rus-
2 sianS...PA....
5 Thuemen Section of The Rus

soo-

sianS. P. A
Tiﬁis S. Prot. A

. Uman Section of The Russiah S. P. A.

Vilna Section of The Russian S. P. A.
.5 Voronezh Section of The Rus- 2
2 sianS.P.A.......... ..... 5‘
\VarsaWSection of The Russian S.P.A.
ZytomirSectionof The Russian S.P.A.

Aberdeen Ass’n P. C. A. . . .
Arbroath Branch Scottish S. P. C
S. P. A.

A.
A.
sSh

Scotti ...PC A.........
So Pa ALL 0

.5 Glasgow and \Vest of Scotland 2
1 S. P. C. A. ‘
Inverness S. P.

C. A .....

 

 

P. .Schrcide1‘.. . . ..

E. Smolski. . . . . . .
Count Keller . . . . .

F. K. Freiberg.

W. A. Orloff . . . ..

. Sendczikowsky. .

Gov. N. Lozwinoff .

A. Staritzky . . . . . . .
Maj.-Gen. Irekoff

E. Kessler . . . ..

Col. A. R. Gershelmann.

T. A. Kaskinsky. . . . .. . .

\~ — Shishkowsky,

S. A. Klimoff............

1\1aj. -Geh. O. K. Sharskv..
A. A. Isaeff............

Baron I. Briining . ..... .
Baron de Chaudoire.

Lord Provost of Aberdeen. .

. Henry Corstorphine. . . . . . .

The Lord Provost of Edinburgh

Acting Lord Provost of Glasgow

Rev. 1. 1. Black.

 

. ——(71111111zi1‘1sky.
. —— Minsk.
. -——- Kalashnikoff.

. A. T. Odolski.

Solovieff.

. —— Yolianowsky.

— Zywopiczeff.
—- Turmoresoff.
Kazcouchoff.

' Col. P. P. Joukowsky.

A. T. Taroshenko.

I. M. Pawloff.
T. Rasoum.

. A. Rylshewicz.
. K. Kanewsky.

Iolowaczewicz.

Alex. I. R. Thain.
Webster & Littlejohn.

Archibald Longwill, C. A.

Henry F. Lowndes.
Robert Davidson.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

SCOT LA N 1.1—— Can fin zwa’.
Perth.......
Tavistock. .. . . . . ..

SOUTH AFRICA.
Barberton (S. A. R).
CapeTmovxn
Durban (Natal).. . . . . . .
Johannesburg (S. A. R. )I IS. P.

l Ito-COOOOCOI I

opeS. P. C. A

Pietermaritzburg(Nata1)S. P. C. A

SPAIN.
Barcelona.....
Cadiz . . . ......... . . .
Gibraltar.
Seville

SWEDEN.
Borgholm ............
Eksjo............. ..
Falun......... .ValleyS. P.A.. . .
Goteborg . . . . S. P. Animals and Small Birds
Grebbestad . . . .
Jonkopings .. . . .. . Jonkopings S. P. A. .
Kalmar .............. Kalmar S. P. A. . . . . .
Karlshamn S. PA
Karlskrona SP.........A...
Karlstad ............. SP.........A... .
Linkopings ' Linkopings S. P. A. .. . .
Luleéi...” .S.P.A
Lund... .LundS . .
M'Orsil . . . . Morsil S. P. A.. .............
Nettraby ........... Nettraby S. P. A. . .
Orebro........ . . ..OrebroS.P.A........ ..
Skofde . . . . Skofde S. P. A. . . . ........ ..
Stockholm. Stockholm Branch S. P. A.
Stockholm. . . Swedish S. P. A

Barcelona S. P. A. and Plants.
S. P. A ............ .. ..... . .
. . ..... \S. P. A ......... . .. ....... ..

voice-pol.

.Grebbestad S. P. A .............

ooIao-notoloooannooo

Lionel Phillips... . . . . . .

poo-oooonooonloluuleonIt...

Salvador Badia y Andren. . .

acorn-00.00:.-

J Hellgren..........
F. Aug. Pettersson.

. Geo. C. E. von Odreich .....

’0..-

Hon. Sir Richard Southey, K.C.
.J. Goodliffe

 

 

W. Prosser.

W. Pavel.

ieo. Burgers.

.Rev. “7. Ed. Kelly.
F. J. Dickson.

Francisco de M aymo y Llopart.
Romualdo.
Lieut.-Col. Clutterbuck.

. R. de Bustamente.

. J. Wilner.

o

M. Rubenson
A. J. Molin.......... ..

Rev. J. P. Lagergren . . ..
A. Hellner.

iOttoBerg.......... .....

Rev. E. Wadstein . ..... .
Bishop C. H. Rundgren . .
Dr. A. Sternen. .. .
A.V. Hacklin.............
Prof. S. L. Torngvist .. . .

. . Gustof Erikson . ..........

N. J. Mellander ........
J. Wahlﬁsk. . . . .

H. Uggla..

Count G. von Rosen . . .

Gov. C. 'l‘rcffenberg .

Edward Petri.
A. A. Berg.
C. J. Gardell.
A. AlstrOm.
J. Platon.

. H. Bohman.
. Erik Lethe.

J. J. Blomberg.
K. B. J. T.orsell
G. A. Wallen.

P. O. Nordstrom.
N. Lundahl.

. N. Otto Lindstrom.
. Ivar Espelund.
. J. Tidholm.

Atel Th. Vahlstrom.
A. E. Ljungberg.

. A. Blomgvist.

 

 




Stockholm. . . . . . . . . . . Swedish \Vomen’s Brunch . . . . . . Mrs. Josephine ‘Vareins. . . . 'l‘eberg‘.

Strengnas ...... . .. . . . . C. A. of Strengnas. . . . . T. Nordstroin . . . . ' A. Sillen.

Stromstad ............ S. P. A . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. E. Kalle.

Sundsvall . ........... S. P. A. . . .. . . . . . . . .. . Aug. Petersson ............. Nyblad.

TjOrn . ............... i j‘0rn S. P. A ........... . . Carl Ljungman .............. Y. A. Kallstrom.

Umea. . . \Vestern Territory S. P. A. Prof. C. N. Pahl . . .. ........ Dr. P. B. l\€01’1é1‘.

Upsala . . . . . . . Northern S. P. A. . . . . . . . . F. A. Vingborg. . . ....... . . H. Hildebrand.

Vexio.... . ....Vexio S.P.A......... . L.Montclius............. ..—-—Berggren.

Visby .. . . .. . . . . Visby S. P. A... ... ... .. ... O. Carlstedt . ...... . ..... . . C. Schong.

\Vimn1erby.. .. .............SPA... . .Fr.Ljung .J.P.Johanson.
SWITZERLAND.

Aarau . . . . . . . .A. Jaggi-Keller. . . .. . . . . .. . Rud. Hunziker,

Basle ...... . .. .. . . . . R. Oser. . . .... R. Oser.

Berne . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . J. Fischer ................... Emile Kaeser-Duby,

Bienne . . . . . . . . . . . ' . . . Henri Thalrnann. ........ . . . Albert Chopard.

Burgdorf .. . . . . . . . . . . . A E. Glauser—Diir .............. Joseph Rey.

Chur ................ Union of Soc 5 P. C. A. in Chur. Maj. Hartm. .Caviezel . . . . . . . . Dr. Michel Valer.
Fribourg . ........ Pribourg S. P. C. A. . . . . . . Rev. Charles de Raemy. . . . Prof. Otto Moser.
Geneva S. P. A. . . . . . . . . . . . . . John Cuenoud .............. Eugene de Lude,

Langenthal ........... S. P. C. A. in Langenthalii Ed. Jaggi-Muller ............ J. Marti.
Lausanne . . . . Vandoise S. Prot. A.. . . . . . . . . . . . . A. Crétenond ................ E. Chavannes.
Lucerne. . S. P. A .......... . ..Rob Marbacher . ............ J. Arnold.
Neuchatel. Neuchatel S. Prot. A.. . . ...... Rev. Mr. Lardy. . . Eugene Courvoisier.

SS Prot A' Of Vand in Wthe Can- i. lEugene Gamboni . . Louis Maquelini.
tonof Nyon .J‘

Rolle . . . . . . . P. i . . . . . . . Reymond Schopfer.
Soleure . . . . ‘ S . P. » . . .. T. Arnold. . . . . . . Prof. Servert.
St. Gall .............. JS 1’. A. in St. Gall ....... C. Tuppingemr . . . . . . . . . T. Edelmann.
’1 aggenburg , , , . P. \. of laggenburg. . . . .J.Ede1n1ann ..... . . . . . H. Torgler.
Thun ....... P. ‘ A. Knechtenhofer. .

Vevey” . . . . ' . P. ’ . . . . . . . . Ausset burnier .............. Prof. Farey.
Zurich. . P. A ..... . . . ...... . . . . . . ...... JH. \Volff.

Nyon.....

T AS\I ANIA.

Hobart . Southern Tasmanian S. P. A. . . .. R. G. Hamilton ............. Miss Gellibrand.
Launceston. .. Northern Tasmanian S. P. A.. . Mrs. P. O. Fysh,

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

AGENTS.

In addition to the uniformed force attached to Headquarters
and the Brooklyn Ofﬁce, the Society is represented throughout
the State of New York by the following Agents :

ALLEGANY COUNTY.

BENJAMIN, R. \V .......................................... Rushford

GREENE, MILO B ............................................ Alfred

HARRIS, M.D., WM. II .................................... Canaseraga

HILL, HARLAN II ........................................ Canaseraga

WHITING, J. I ................................................ Bolivar

WILLIAMS, HORACE II .................................. Friendship
BROOME COUNTY.

WILSON, JOHN M ............................................ Deposit

CAYUGA COUNTY.

‘CLAPP, A. B ................................................ Port Byron
RICH, JOHN E . . . . ........................................... Auburn
'WALLACE, RICIIARI) A ...................................... Auburn

CHAUTAUQUA COUNTY.
JENKS, A. FRANK ......................................... Jamestown

COLUMBIA COUNTY.

GANTLEY, THOMAS II ...................................... Hudson
.S'I‘O'I‘T, FREDERICK I)U BOIS ................... . . . . . . . .Stottville
VVHITBECK, CORNELIUS .................................. (Traryville
’WILSON, M.1)., 'I‘IIOM AS ................................... (flaverack

DELAWARE COUNTY.

HALSTEAD, GEORGE ...................................... Stamford
ICAUFMAN, C. C.. ....................................... IVIargaretville

 




 

   
  

93

DUTCHESS COUNTY.
CRUSE, M.D., THOMAS K ......................... Wappinger’s Falls
)IOITH, THEODORE ........................... Fishkill-on-the-Hudson

ESSEX COUNTY.
HOLT, MONROE ................................. . ..... Keene Valley

FRANKLIN COUNTY.

BALLARD, JAY O ............................................. Malone
DONOHOE, M. C .............................................. Malone

FULTON COUNTY.

GRANT, W. M ........................................... Johnstown
ROOT, ERASTUS ......................................... Gloversville
ROSSELLE, J. J .......................................... Gloversville

GENESEE COUNTY.

HOUSTON, FRANKLIN ...................................... Le Roy
IVICNISH, JOHN .............................................. Batavia

GREENE COUNTY.

DECKER, ROSCOE ........................................ Prattsville
HANSEN, HENRY ............................................ Catskill
RILEY, WILLIAM T ..................................... Lexington
\VILLARD, M.D., CHARLES E ............................... Catskill

HERKIMER COUNTY.

HALL, H. CLAY .......................................... Little Falls
KLEM, PHILIP G ........................................... Herkimer
SPOFFORD, JULIAN C ..................................... Dolgeville

JEFFERSON COUNTY.
\YARD, PETER A .................................. . ....... Watertown

KINGS COUNTY.

CORTELYOU, P. L ......................................... Bay Ridge
DE MUND, M.D., J. E ................................... Bath Beach

LEWIS COUNTY.
DRYDEN, JOHN D ....................................... Copenhagen

.11“;

il‘l' 1,
I‘ll 7‘
ill ll

' s

 

 

 

 

 

_ ...‘ -,._. ,:..,.._

 

 

 

-v.

 




95

ORANGE COUNTY.

CRICVICLI NH, RlCV. l’l‘l'l‘liR (‘1,i\lll)lC ........................ Cornwall
(}()l'l,l), 'l‘l l( ).\l .\.\' 13 ............................. ..... . . .Mitlillctown
.\l 1 HS. .1 .\ \l [‘18 _l ............................................ Port Jervis
X.\N\\', ll.\l{|{lh‘().\' \\' ....................................... (loshcn
\\'ll,l.li\ MS, .\'. ll ............................................ Ridgebury

ORLEANS COUNTY.

VAN S'I‘UNI‘Z, l‘ll)\\'l.\' ......................................... Albion

OSWEGO COUNTY.

.\'l‘1\\' .\l i\ \, l5. (} ........................................ North Hannibal
l’l‘lNl’llCLl), \\'. ll .............................................. Mexico

OTSEGO COUNTY.

Ill )\\'l’,, j ICSSIC l5. ....... ..................................... ()nconta
l’l..\'l"l‘, (‘ll.\l{l.li.\‘ \l .......................................... Morris
SI’I‘TS. .l‘ )l l .\ ll ...................................... Richlicld Springs
PUTNAM COUNTY.
liliNNlC'l‘T. \\',\l,'l‘l-II\' l- _ . ......... ........ Mahopac
l»l.\'(‘.li|’., .\l\'|\'( )_\' ............................................ Carmel
QUEENS COUNTY.

lzl'si‘ll, .\[).\\l ............................................ \\‘oodhzwen
('IAI’I’. ll<.\ .\l ............................................... Flushing
(‘l,( )\\'l*,.\‘, l,l-‘,\\'l.\‘ ll ........................................ llcmpstead
('()_\'l\'l,l.\" .\l\‘(‘lll|’. l", ....................................... jznnuica
|,['_\’|;_\|{. _|()Il\ ‘[ ............................................ Freeport
[ll 'Sl _\'( ‘.‘ \V I l ,I .l V\ \l .................................. Long Island City
HI-L.\'l‘/,. .\l.l‘.l*.|\"|‘ ........................................... Mnspcth
lx' _\( )\\' I .'I‘( )\‘ \\'. 1' ................................... l’nrt Washington
[1 ﬁlili. ll! )l{.\'|'lH ......................................... (ilcn Cove
\Hﬁl;l-{l‘l"l‘, l)‘\\ ll) H .......................................... lnwood
['t .5 1 . ."'-» .l-\ \I l-'_\‘ |‘.. .................................. .Richmond llill
\( "Ill .1 11,19“ ’I'll |Q< .| n ml”. .. . . . . . . . ............................ Winfield
\l-1.\\l\\. \ \l.l-'.\'l'l\l". ..................................... ()cmnug
\ .\ \ \\ \l .\ l” li‘ \\ [Ill \\l ............................... [,ocmt V'lllo
\\\(,\l|' \l \lill‘\ ................................. \\(KK‘ISldy

‘ ’ ( ........ _‘ 7e
\\ \li\ll. (,I Hl\(.lv H........... ................... ...|\’i<:lnn<m(l [[ill

\\ﬂ\l.\ll,.lHH.\l ................

.................... l’ur Ix'ockzlway

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

     
 

96

RICHMOND COUNTY.
New Brighton

ELLIOTT, GEORGE ............ , ............... . .........
MATHESON, JAMES C ................................. .Green Ridge
ST. LAWRENCE COUNTY.
WRIGHT, D. V ........................ . .................. Ogdensburgh
SARATOGA COUNTY.
FONDA, ROBERT C ............................... Saratoga Springs
KAVANAUGI—I, F. W ........................................ Waterford
RICE, GEORGE A ...................................... Mechanicsville
SELDEN, EDWARD D ............................... Saratoga Springs
\VOODWORTH, H. J ................................... Mechanicsville
SCHENECTADY COUNTY.
HOAG, C. E ............................................. Quaker Street
SCHOHARIE COUNTY.
PLANK, OLIVER F ......................................... Gallupville
SCHUYLER COUNTY.
VVAITE, WILLIAM HENRY .................................. Watkins
SENECA COUNTY.
BAERMAN, FREEMAN D ................................. Seneca Falls
STEUBEN COUNTY.
BURKE, THOMAS W ......................................... Addison
HOUGHTON, ARTHUR A .................................... Corning
PHILLIPS, M.D., CHARLES R ............................ Hornellsville
WILKES, ROBERT B ....... . ..................................... Bath
SUFFOLK COUNTY.
ANDERSON, THOMAS S. W .............................. Stony Brook
BALCHEN, OSCAR I ........................................... Babylon
CAMPBELL, ARCHIBALD H .............................. Huntington
GILDERSLEEVE, SELAH P ................................... Elwood
HOMAN, C. E. C ...................................... East Hampton
HOWELL, WILLIAM M ....... . .............................. Setauket
MORISON, GEORGE W ................................... Ronkonkoma
MULFORD, HENRY D ..................................... Northport
PENNEY, ROBERT W ........ . .............................. Flanders
Greenport

REEVES, DETMOLD .......................................

 

 




 

 

 

    
   
 
 
 
 
   
  
  
   
   
   
   
  
   
   
  
 
 
 
   
   
   
     

97

SAVAGE, M.D., WILLIAM B. . . . . . . . . . . . . g ................... East Islip
SMITH, CHARLES F .............................. . ........ Cutchogue
SQUIRES, EDWARD N ................................... Good Ground
STRONG, JAMES S ......................................... \Nainscott
SUYDAM, WALTER L ...................................... Blue Point
TOTTEN, JOHN C ................................. Cold Spring Harbor
VAIL, ALFRED R ....................... ........Southold
WELLS, GEORGE B .................................. Baiting Hollow
WIGGINS, JR., DAVID B .................................. Sag Harbor

SULLIVAN COUNTY.
DECKER, A. A .......................................... Mountain Dale

TIOGA COUNTY.

STEELE, CHARLES R ....................................... A palachin
WHEELER, JOHN H . . . .. ..................................... Candor
ULSTER COUNTY.

ELLSWORTH, ELIJAH ...................................... Kingston
=OSTRANDER, DE WITT W .......................... " ..... Clintondale

WARREN COUNTY.

BEVINS, STANLEY H ..................................... Chestertown
BURNETT, WILLIAM H ........... . ..................... Lake George
GRAY, MILO J ............................................. Glens Falls
'GRIFFING, E. T ............................................ Luzerne
HARRIS, E. S ............................................. Lake George

WASHINGTON COUNTY. .
JAKEWAY, FREDERICK ................................... Fort Miller

MCFARLAND, WM. M .......................................... Salem
SCOTT, GEORGE H .................. . ...................... Whitehall
WAYNE COUNTY.

AGETT, WILLIAM W ........................................... Lyons
COOPER, BYARD ............................................. Clyde
FINKLE, FINLEY ............................................ Ontario
SHARP, GEORGE ............................................... Lyons

WESTCHESTER COUNTY.

ANGEVINE, GILBERT J ............................... Mount Vernon
BACON, MARSHAL I ....................................... Tarrytown
BARR, JOHN H. ...................................... . ..... Irvington
BERBERT, FREDERICK .................................... Hastings
BRIGHT, MARSHAL H ................................... Tarrytown

7

 

 

 

 

 




 

 
  
 
  
   
  
 
 
   
 
  
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

98

BROPHY, MICHAEL ................................ . ..... Larchmont
COLLINS, HIRAM J. ................................... Mount Vernon
FARLEY, JOHN M ....................................... White Plains
FOSHAY, HARRY E .............. » ...................... Mamaroneck
GARNJOST, FERDINAND .................................... Yonkers
HARRISON, WALTER S. . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . .................. Pelhamville
HART, FRED. R .......................................... Mount Kisco
HUSS, HENRY .......................................... Mount Vernon
JOHNSON, PERCY D ......................... . .......... Mount Vernon
KONRAD, AUGUSTUS. . . . .. .............................. Tarrytown
KOPP, GEORGE M ..... . ..................................... Sing Sing
MAHONEY, JOHN H ................................ North Tarrytown
MONTGOMERY, FERRIS R .............................. White Plains
STEVENS, CHARLES S .................................. Port Chester

WYOMING COUNTY.
POND, MARCUS E .......................... , .................. Castile
. YATES COUNTY.
MCLAUGHLIN, AMOS ....................................... Penn Yan

 

 




 

 

LIFE MEMBERS.

 

The payment of one hundred dollars or more, at one time,
secures a life membership.

 

A

Anderson, Mrs. A. A.
Andrews, C. A.
Andrews. Mrs. B. L.
Arnold, William

Astor, Mrs. John Jacob
Astor, William Waldorf
Avery, Samuel P.

B

Banks, Gen’l Robt. Lenox
Banks, Jr., Robt. Lenox
Becker, Mrs. Jennie T. B.
Benson, Miss Mary
Bergh, Henry

Billington, Mrs. Reno R.
Bliss, Robert P.

Bonner, Robert

Boyd, J. Gilmore

Brown, Lewis B.

Bundy, Hobart L.
Burdick, B. W.

Busteed, Jr., Richard
Butler, Miss M. H.
Butler, Miss M. W.

Butts, Mrs. Laura A.

C

Campbell, A. H.
Chambers, Dr. M. L.

Claﬂin, Arthur B.

Claﬂin, John

Claﬂin, Mrs. H, B.

Clausen, Henry

Clendenin, D.D., Rev. F. M.
Clews, Henry

Coddington, Gilbert S.
Convers, E. B.

Crapo, John M.

D

Daly, Henry F.

Daly, Mrs. Henry F.

DeWitt, George G.

Dickinson, Mrs. H. A

Dilks, George W.

Dodge, Mrs Charles Cleveland
Dodge, Norman W

Draper, Mrs. Henry

Dunlap, Cornell

E

Ehret, George
Ewen, Miss C. G.

F

Faber, Mrs. Angelica B.
Ford, William T.
Foster, James

 

 

 

 

  
 
  
  
  
   
   
 
   
 
 
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
    
  
 
   
   

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
   
    
    
    
   
    
   
     
 

 

 

 

 

G

Gebhard, William H.
Gerry, Elbridge T.
Gilbert, Frederick E.
Gray, Horace
Gudewill, George
Gunning, William J.

H

Hadden, John A.
Haines, John P.
Halsey, Mrs. Frederic Robert
Hamilton, John L.
Hammond, Edward A.
Hawkins, Gen. Rush C.
Hawkins, Mrs. Rush C.
Hicks, Benjamin D.
Hoe, Jr., Robert
Howard, Bronson
Howard, Mrs. Bronson
Humfreville, J. Lee
Hunt, Miss Ann

I
Iselin, Miss Emilie E.

l

James, Mrs. John S.
Jesup, Morris K.
Johnston, J. Boorman

K

Kemp, Edward
Kingman, Mrs. Martin E.
Kohlsaat, J. W.

Kraus, Miss Emma

L

Lanier, Charles

Lee, Miss Alleine

Lewis, Mrs. Henry Dickinson
Liautard, Dr. A. F.

100

  
   
 
 
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
   
 
  
 
  
 
  
   
    
    
    
 

Lilley, C. W.
Low, Joseph T.

M

Marié, Peter

Marsh, John Edward
Marshall, Charles [-1.
Meeker, Dr. C. H.
Merritt, Mrs. George
Milbank, Joseph
Milbank, Mrs. Joseph.
Moffat, Miss Myra
Morss, Mrs. Mary T.
Mott, Jordan L.
Moulton, Miss Eliza
Moulton, Mrs. F. A.
Murray, John B.

O

O’Brien, William
Olcott, F. P.
Oothout, William
Osborn, William H.

P

Parrish, James C.

Post, Edwin A.

Pyne, Jr., Moses Taylor
Pyne, Mrs. Percy R.

R

Reusens, G.

Rhines, Mrs. Isaac Olcott
Ripley, Harry Dillon

Ripley, Sidney Dillon

Ruppert, Jacob

Russell, Jr., Archibald Douglas.
Russell, Hon. Horace

      
    
   
     
      

S

Schaefer, Frederick ‘
Scharmann, H. B.

Schermerhorn, William C.

Shaw, Mrs. Francis G.




  

Sherman, George
Sherman, William Watts
Smith, Dr. Edward A.
Smith, Miss Josephine C.
Squier, E. George
Standish, Mrs. Myles
Stevens, Frederick W.
Sticht, Mrs. Augusta
Stokes, Jr., James
Straus, Nathan

St. John, William P.
Stuyvesant, Mrs. J. Reade
Suckley, Robert B.
Suckley, Rutsen

Sulzer, Hon. William
Swezey, Mary E.

T
Thompson, Fred. F.
Tiffany, Charles L.
Townsend, Mrs. Howard
Tuck, Edward

V
Valentine, Mitchel

 

Vanderbilt, F. W.
Vanderbilt, Mrs. F. W.
Van Kirk, Miss Lila
Van Rensselaer, Kiliaen
Van Tassel, Emery M.

W

Wagstaff, Hon. Alfred
Wagstaff, Mrs. Alfred
Watson, George H.
Webb, William H.
Weston, Mrs. R. W.
Wheeler, Miss Laura
\Vhite, Mrs. C. E.

Winans, Miss M. Antoinette

Winslow, Edward
Winthrop, Benjamin R.
Wolff, Agnes H.

Wood, Charles B.
Wyckoff, Mrs. Cora Dillon

Y
Yuengling, Jr., David G.

 

 

 

 

 

   
  
  
   
  

 

. .212“? “
.4. V V. a

  

 

 

  




   
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
 

 

 

 

 

 

MEMBERS.

     

 

The annual member

 

A

Abbott, Warren G.
Abendroth, W. P.
Abraham, Abraham
Ackerman, E. W.
Ahlmann, Otto
Alexander, Tom
Amend, C. A. L.
Appel, Jr., Henry J.
Appelbaum, Henry
Appleton, W. H.
Aron, A. ‘
Austin, Mrs. F. B.
Avery, Mrs. S. P.
Avila, Mrs. Samuel A.
Ayer, Frederick F.

B

Bachmann, Frederick
Backus, Mrs. Foster L.
Bacon, Marshal L.
Baeszler, Charles
Bailey, Miss Mary L.
Baird, A. D.

Baldwin, C. C.
Baldwin, H. M.
Baldwin, Mrs. T. Burnett
Baldwin, Mrs. W. D.
Banyer, Goldsboro
Bardes, John

Barker, Miss Isabel R.
Barnes, Davis

 

 

ship subscription is ﬁve dollars.

_’——

Barnes, Miss Mildred
Barnes, Reon
Barret, Miss Lily
Barrow, Mrs. J. Thomas
Barry, Wm. J.
Barth, Gustav A.
Battermann, H.

Bayne, S. G.

Beach, Mrs. Emily S.
Beard, Mrs. J. Carter
Beckwith, Mrs. L. F.
Beemer, James
Beinert, Charles
Belford, William J.
Benedicks, Leonard
Benedict, Miss Louise
Benjamin, A. Bedell
Benjamin, Mrs. A. Bedell
Benner, Mrs. Robert
Bennet, Frank
Benscher, Fred.
Bernheimer, Simon E.
Berns, Dr. George H., V.S.
Biddle, John

Bigelow, Mrs. Poultney
Bishop, Miss Edith
Bishop, Miss Eleanor
Bishop, Miss M. C.
Bishop, Mrs. Heber R.
Blake, Henry

Blake, Peter

Bliss, E. W.

Bliss, Miss Ida E.

 

 




 

Bliss, Miss Sue D.

Bliss, Mrs. E. W.

Bliss, Mrs. Justin A.
Bliss, Mrs. W. H.

Bloor, A. J.

Bodine, B. J.

Bowdoin, Miss Edith G.
Bowne, Mrs. Philip H.
Bracken, Peter B.
Bradish, Mrs. George Johnston
Breese, Miss Eloise L.
Brinkerhoff, Mrs. E. R.
Brookes, Mrs. E. C.
Brooks, Miss Bertha G.
Brooks, William L.
Brown, Benjamin
Brown, Edward W.
Brown, Thomas

Brown, Walston H.
Brown, Mrs. Walston H.
Brownson, Mrs. W. H.
Bryan, Charles S.

Bull, W. L.

Bull, Jr., W. L.

Bull, Mrs. W. L.

Bull, Mrs. William T.
Bullinger, Mrs. E. T.
Burnett, Mrs. Dr. W. J.
Burnett, S. O.
Burroughs, William V.
Burt, Dr. Stephen Smith
Buswell, Mrs. F. C.
Butler, Charles

Byrnes, Rev. James P.

C

Cadwell, Mrs. S. U.
Cady, Mrs. J. C.
Caldwell, R. J I
Calef, Mrs. John H.
Callender, Thomas 0.
Campbell, Alexander
Canty, Daniel

Caro, Benjamin
Carpenter, Miss Agnes

103

Carpenter, Miss Edith W.
Carpenter, Mrs. Miles B.
Carr, Miss Mary J.
Carscallen,.Mrs. J. D.
Carscallen, Miss Kate
Cary, Mrs. W. F.
Cassidy, Rev. Charles A.
Cassidy, John

Catlin, Miss Cora V. R.
Catlin, Miss Edith R.
Catlin, Miss K. L. R.
Cestero, J. N.

Cestero, Mrs. J. N.
Chamberlain, Miss F. A.
Chase, Miss Helen F.
Chisolm, Benjamin 0.
Choate, Joseph H.
Choate, Mrs. Joseph H.
Clark, Edward J.

Clay, George E.
Cleveland, Mrs. J. Wray
Close, S. B.

Coburn, Miss L. C.
Cockey, Edward C.

Coe, Miss Miriam Storrs
Cohen, Albert A.
Cohen, Solomon L.
Cohen, Stanley A.
Colby, Miss May Colgate
Colby, William Colgate
Cole, Mrs. H. Eger
Cole, Mrs. Hugh L.
Colgate, A. W.

Colgate, Miss Adele W.
Colgate, Mrs. A. W.
Colgate, James B.
Conklin. Michael
Constable, W.

Cook, Frank D.

Cooper, Charles W.
Corbett, C. H.

Corbin, Dr. Job
Cornell, Hon. Robert C.
Coster, C. H.

Coudert, Frederic R.
Coutts, Mrs. G. H.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

Cowdin, Winthrop
Cowles, Alfred A.
Cramer, L. H.

Crimmins, Thomas E.
Critten, Miss Mignon
Crocker, D.

Crosby, Miss M. E.
Crossman, W. H.
Crossmond, Mrs. L. D.
Crowell, Edward B.
Cuming, James R.
Cummings, Robert J.
Cunningham, Miss E. G.
Cunningham, George
Curtis, Miss Elizabeth B.
Curtis, Mrs. G. W,
Curtiss, Miss Sophia

D

Dailey, John L.

Dalley, Jr., Henry
Dalzell, Mrs. John D.
Darrell. Edward F.
Darrigrand, Alexander A.
Darrigrand, Miss Fannie
Darrigrand, Miss Lucie
Darrigrand, Miss Marie
Davidson, Miss Clara
Davidson, Peter
Davison, Clarence B.

Dawson, Benjamin Frederick

Day, Mrs. H. M.
Decker, J. P.

De Coppet, H.

De Coppet, Mrs. H.
De Cordova, Alfred

De Gerlach, Alexander
Dehon. Miss M. H.
Dejonge, Louis

De Luze, Francisco 0.
Dempsey, Daniel

De Ruiz, Mrs. P. B.
Despard, Mrs. C. L.
De Witt, Mrs. George G.
De Witt, William G.

104

 
   
   
  
 
  
    
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
   
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
   
 
  
  
 
    
    
      
     
     
    
   
   
    
      
   

Dexter, Henry
Dick, Mrs. W. B.
Dieterich, Charles F.
Dillar, W. E.

Ditson, Mrs. C. H.
Dittrich, M.D., Eberhard W-
Dix, S.T.D., Rev. Morgan
Dodge, Marcellus Hartley
Dodge, Sr., Mrs. W. E.
Dodge, William E.
Doelger, Peter

Doerr, J. B.

Donnelly, Edward
Donovan, Dennis
Donovan, Joseph

Dowd, Timothy

Dowst, Arthur A.

Drake, Mrs. Charles
Duer, Miss Alice M.
Duer, Miss Caroline K.
Duer, James G. K.

Duer, Mrs. James G. K.
Duggin, Mrs. Charles

Du Vivier, E. A.

E

Eaton, Dorman B.
Eckstein, Samuel
Edwards, J. Pierrepont
Eger, Mrs. T. G.
Ehrmann, Julius
Elkins, Miss Fanny
Elkins, Miss Ida
Elliott, Henry
Ellis, Mrs. A. V. H.
Engeman, George H.
Engeman, William A.
Englis, Charles M.
Ensign, Herman L.
Eppelsheimer, Henry
Eppig, JCSCph
Erhardt, Hon. Joel B.
F

Fahnestock, William
Fairbanks, Mrs. L.

 




 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
   
  
    
  
   
  
    
  
  
   
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
    

Fairchild, Mrs. A. V.
Fargo, Mrs. James C.
Fearon, Robert J.
Feist, Karl

Felt, Mrs. Edwin M.
Finck, August

Fischer, Mrs. Charles
Fisk, Mrs. Harvey E.
Fitch, M.D., Neil O.
Fitzgerald, Gen. Louis
Flegenheimer, Henry
Fleig, A. B.

Flint, Miss Annie
Flint, Miss Helena
Flint, Mrs. Austin
Flint, Jr., Mrs. Austin
Flint, Mrs. Charles R.
Foehrenbach, Jr., F.
Foller, Nicholas
Fontenilliat, Mrs. Julia F. de
Forbes, Miss Agnes
Ford, Malcolm W.
Forney, Matthias N.
Fox, Mrs. Austen G.
Franchot, Mrs. He’l‘ene
Frankenberg, D.
Franklin, Dr. E. D.
Franks, C. Douglas
Franzreb, John
Freedman, Andrew
Freeman, Prof. James J
Freeman, Mrs. L.
Freeman, W. D.
Freud, Miss Hannah
Frew, Walter E.

Fries, Frederick
Friihauf, Miss Victoria
Fuller, M.D., William H.
Furman, John T.

G

Gager, Mrs. Mary M.
Gallaher, Mrs. Julia A.
Gallatin, Frederic

Gatter, Miss Elizabeth Almy

Gatter, Miss Georgia
Gaus, John L.

Gellatly, Mrs. John
Geschei’dt, Anthony L.
Gibb, John

Gibbons, Francis J.

Gibert, Sr., Mrs. F. E.
Glassford, H. A.

Glatz, Mrs. Pauline
Gleason, Hon. P. J.
Glenn, Miss Janie
Goddard, Mrs. J. Warren
Godkin, Lawrence
Godwin, Parke

Goodrich, George Selden
Goodrich, Mrs. Thomas F.
Goodridge, Mrs. Frederic
Grabs, Ernst

Grant, Rev. Percy S.
Grauer, George

Greer, D.D., Rev. David H.
Groh, John
Guggenheimer, Mrs, Randolphu
Guilford, Mrs. Nathan
Guiterman, Rudolph
Gunther, Henry

H

Haberstadt, S. E.
Hackett, Jeremiah
Haddock, J. W.
Haffen, John
Hagerdorn, Frau H.
Hagerty, M. H.

Hale, Mrs. Th.

Hall, Miss Mary L.
Hamilton, Henry
Hard, Anson W_

Hard, Miss Laura W.
Harriman, Mrs. J. Borden
Harris, Isaac

Harrison, Mrs. Mary L.
Harrison, W. S.

Hart, Charles

Hart, Charles H.

 

 

 

 

 

 

:1'951a%%wﬂ?%4 .‘ .—- ‘ '

.4 . #ql...

u-r-t'

”'3 Gig—l

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

   

Hart, Patrick
Hastings, Chas. F.
Hastings, Mrs. A. F.
Hastings, Mrs. W. C.
Havemeyer, J. Craig
Haven, George G.
Haviland, S. W.
Hecht, Aaron
Heckman, Mrs. Barbette
Hecksher, John G.
Heins, Charles
Heins, John L.
Henderson, Mrs. Harriet
Hendricks, Charles
Hendricks, Mrs. Charles
Hennig7 Mrs. Sophia
Hentschel, Charles
Hentz, Henry
Herrick, M.D., Everett
Hewitt, Miss Sarah Cooper
Heyland, E. A.
Heyman, Charles
Higginson, Miss Dorothy L.
Hill, James K.
Hill, Warren E.
Hinrichs, C. F. A.
Hinton, Miss S. McV.
Hitchcock, Miss F. A.
Hitchcock, Welcome G.
Hitchcock, Mrs. Welcome G.
Hoefer, Charles R.
Hoegg, William
Hoffmann, Jacob
Hogan, Charles W.
Hogan, Timothy
Holbrook, Edward
Holbrook, Miss Lilian
Holbrook, Mrs. Edward
Holbrook, Mrs. Harry
Holcombe, Mrs. Wm. Frederic
Holden, Henry
Hollins, Mrs. H. B.
Hollister, Thompson
Holmes, Mrs. J. W.
Holz, Bernard
Holz, Mrs. Bernard

106

   
  
 
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
    
  
 
  
 
 
   
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 

Hopf, Max G.

Hopkins, H. C.
Hopkinson, Miss Jennie M.
Horn, William E.
Horrmann, August
Horrmann, Charles
Horrmann, William
Horton, James M.
Houghton, Arthur A.
Hower, Frederick

Huber, Otto

Hudson, Miss Anna Hope
Humason, Mrs. V. P.
Huntington, Archer M.
Huntington, Mrs. C. P.
Hupfel, J. C. G.

Hyatt, Mrs. Margaret A.

I

Ibert, Frank

Ingersoll, Miss Maud
Ingersoll, Robert G.
Ingersoll, Mrs. Robert G.
Isaacs, David

Isaacs, Gabriel

Iselin, C. Oliver

J

Jackson, F. W.

Jahn, Wm.

Jarves, Miss Florence
Jeffery, Dr. George C.
Jennewein, Valentine
Jermanowski, Baron E. J.
Jerome, Mrs. Henry A.
JeX, Miss Emily D.
Johnson, Joseph

Johnson, Dr. S. K.

Johnston, John Humphreys
Johnston, Mrs. Mary

Jones, Floyd—, Mrs.Geo.Stanton
Jones, Mrs. F. R.

Jurgens, W. B. A.

Jurwelius, Madame Thyra

 

 




 

  
 
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
   

K

Kakels, Dr. M. S.
Kane, S. Nicholson
Kaufman, C. C.
Keene, Mrs. Foxhall P.
Keeney, E. N.
Kellogg, W. A.
Kemp, Mrs. George
Kendall, Miss Georgiana
Kendall, Miss S. R.
Keugh, Miss Anna
Kimbel, Richard M.
King, Dr. Morris Lee
King, Marc J.
King, Mrs. Percy R.
Knapp, Dr. G. Lee
Knapp, John M.
Knapp, L.
Knapp, Miss M. M.
Knight, Mrs. Arthur
Knopf, A. E.
Knowlton, E. F.
Koegler, William
Kohlmann, John D.
Koke, Dr. W. A.
Korbay, Mrs. Francis
Kraus, Benjamin
Krause, M.D., William H.
Krowder, Miss Alice

L

Lambert, Fred. A.

La Montagne, Mrs. E. C.
Lampe, Miss Elise H.
Langdon, Woodbury G.
Lapham, Mrs. John J.
Larremore, Mrs. Wilbur
La Tourrette, Miss J. E.
Lawrence, Miss Hannah N.
Lawrence, Mrs. S.
Lawson, Mrs. Emma
Leahy, David T.

Leao, Francisco Garcia Pereira

Learned, Billings P.
Learned, Mrs. Billings P.

107

Lee, Prof. B. F.
Leeds, Mrs. John G.
Leggett, Francis H.
Lembke, Jr., Charles
Leslie, Miss Gertrude
Levy, Aaron

Lewis, Mrs. Jennie
Lewis, Percy Pyne
Liebmann, Charles
Lilienthal, Mrs. S. P.
Lincoln, Dr. H. Warren
Lindner, Jr., Charles
Lipsius, Mrs. Claus
Livingston, Miss Ann L.
Lockman, Jacob K.
Lockman, John T.
Lockwood, John E.
Loewi, Edgar
Loewi, Mrs. Edgar
Loewi, Valentine
Loomis, Alfred L.

Lorette, Miss Frances M. V.

Low, Hon. Seth

Low, Mrs. Seth

Lowell, Miss C. Russell
Lowery, Mrs. John A.
Ludlow, Banyer

Ludlow, Mrs. James Ogden
Lund, John

Lusk, Miss Anna H.

Lusk, Miss Mary E.
Lyman, E. H. R.

M

Macdonald, A. J.
Mackay, George D.
Mackenzie, John
Mackenzie, Miss L.
Mackenzie, Miss M.
Mackenzie, William
Maclay, Mrs. J. W.
Maclay, Robert

Major, F. H.
Manigault, Mrs. Anne M.
Manson, Jr., Mrs. ’1‘. L.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Marcks, L. H.
Marks, Mrs. Nannette
Marks, Selim
Marsh, David
Marsh, Nathaniel
Marshall, E. C.
Marshall, Miss C. E.
Marshall, Mrs. E. C.
Martin, C. C.
Mason, James Kent
Maverick, Mrs. Brewster
Maxwell, Henry W,
Maxwell, Miss Ida F.
May, Moses
Mayer, David
McBurney, Mrs. S. A.
McCarnrick, Mrs. Edgar
McCurdy, John
McEwen, Mrs. D. C.
McGahie, John
McGee, James
McKee, D.V.S., James

McKendrick, Miss Claire F.

McKinney, Dr. William J.
McLaren, Alfred S.
McLean, George H.
McLean, John
McLean, Miss Matilda
McManus, J. F.
McNamee, Miss Jessie
McQuade, John
McQuade, P. J.
Mergle, Anton
Merritt, Miss E.
Mertz, Miss M.
Meserole, A. V.
Metzger, Mrs. Abram
Meyer, Henry

Meyer, Mrs. L. H.
Michelbacher, S.
Miller, Mrs. C. A.
Miller, Mrs. G.

Mills, Ogden

Minck, Henry
Minturn, Hugh
Minturn, Miss Eliza T.

 

108

    

Minturn, Miss Mildred
Minturn, Mrs. Robert B.
Mintz, Dr. Frederick
Mitchell, John A.
Moller, Miss S. Adelina
Moller, Peter
Monahan, Thomas
Monnot, J. B.

Monroe, Mrs. Elbert B.
Montgomery, George L.
Morgan, Miss Louisa P.
Morris, Lewis G.
Morrison, Mrs. George Austin
Morton, Hon. Levi P.
Moss, Frank

Moss, Harris
Mowbray, Andrew
Muller, Edward M.
Mulligan, James
Munch, Ferdinand
Mustoe, Dr. Frederick
Myers, George L.
Myers, Miss Lillie

N

Namm, Adolph I.
Natrass, Mrs. Frank E.
Neidlinger, Adam
Neilson, Howard S.
Nelson, Mrs. Walter H.
Newman, D.V.S., Philip H.
Newton, Mrs. R. H.
Nichols, Erickson N.
Noble, Mrs. Elizabeth F.
Noble, Mrs. G. Clifford
Nobs, Mrs. M. Madelaine
Norvell, Duncan R.
Noyes, Mrs. Henry D.

O

Oakford, Miss Ellen
Obermeyer, Theodore
Ochs, Ernest
Ockershausen, Henry A.




  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
     

Ogden, W. B.

Olcott, George M.
Oliver, Mrs. Dillon
Oothout, Mrs. William
Orr, John C.

O’Shaughnessy, Nelson J. W.

Otis, Charles R.

Otis, Mrs. N. P.
Owen, Mrs. Thomas J.
Ozioni, Mrs. Anna

P

Palmer, Dr. Ernest
Palmer, Francis F.
Palmer, George Q.
Palmer, Mrs. N. F.
Palmer, N. F.

Parker, Miss Mary D.
Parsons, W. H.
Pearsall, Mrs. F. E.
Pell, J. H.

Pell, Mrs. J. H.
Perkins, Miss Edith Howell
Perry, Mrs. C. M.
Phelps, Mrs. Anson G,
Phillips, William
Phyfe, Henry P.

Pirie, S. C.

Pitcher, L. A.

Plate, Carsten
Pohalski, H. Percy
Pomeroy, Miss F. Josephine
Pomroy, Mrs. H. K.
Pond, Warren

Pool, John H.

Pope, N. Q.

Price, W. W.

Prout, Dr. J. S.
Prout, Mrs. J. S.
Purdy, J. H.

Q

Quimby, Frank P.
Quinlan, Thos. F.

109

Quinlan, William
Quintard, George W.

R

Rader, Gustavus W.
Raisch, Julius
Rapallo, Mrs. Edward S.
Rapelye, Mrs. C.
Rappenecker, William F.
Raymond, Charles H.
Raynor, Miss Florence
Reboul, H. W,

Redding, Mrs, Josephine
Remsen, Miss Fannie
Remsen, Miss Margaret S.
Renault, Louis

Reyer, George S.
Reynolds, C. H.
Reynolds, Mrs. Jennie
Rhinehardt, Clark D.
Rhinelander, Miss S.
Rhoades, John Harsen
Rike-r, Mrs. D. S.
Rinschler, Frank
Roberts, Mrs. Roswell A.
Roberts, Roswell A.
Robinson, Henry
Robinson, Mrs. Henry
Rodewald, F. L.
Rodrigue, John J.
Rogers, Noah Cornwell
Roome, W. Harris
Roosevelt, J. A.
Rosenbaum, Mrs. Helen
Rosenbaum, Mrs. Mary
Rosenthal, Robert J.
Rosenwald, Henry
Rosenwald, Isaac
Rosenwald, Sigmund
Ross, William B.

Roth, George

Rouss, C. Broadway
Rowland, Jr, Thomas Fitch
Rowland, Thomas Fitch
Rowland, William F.

Russell, Mrs. James Townsend

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




   
   
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
   
  
 
  
  
  
 
   
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
    
  
  
   
  
  
  
 

Stuart, Robert W.

Sturges, Miss May F.
Sullivan, Mrs. Catharine Allen
Sutro, Mrs. Theodore

Sutton, Mrs. Gregory
Suydam, Walter L.

Swalm, Geo. W.

Swords, Miss P. Caroline
Sylvester, Miss Elizabeth

T

Tailer, William H.
Tannenbaum, Moses
Taylor, Jr., Alexander
Taylor, Frederic

Taylor, Thomas F.
Thebaud, Paul L.
Thomas, Frederic C.
Thomas, Miss Mary L.
Thompson, Edward P.
Thompson, G. A.
Thompson, Miss Alice
Thompson, Miss Rhoda
Thompson, Mrs, Robert M.
Thorne, Mrs. Phebe Anna
Thouron,’ Mrs. E. A.
Thurnauer, Felix
Tiedemann, F.

Tilford, Miss Etta
Tilley, John W.

Timolat, James G.

Toby, Geo. P.
Toedteberg, Miss Emma
Townsend, Dr. Charles W.
Townshend, John

Tracy, Dr. E. Clarke
Trask, G. D. S.

Trevor, Henry G.
Trevor, Mrs. John B.
Tryon, F. M.

Tuck, H.

Tucker, Miss M. B.
Tucker, Mrs. R. S.
Tuckerman, Alfred
Tuckerman, Mrs. Alfred

Tully, Matthew S.
Turney, Winthrop
T uttle, Miss E.

U

Ulmer, William
Ulrichs, Thomas
Ulshoeffer, W. G.

V

Van Buren, Mrs. H. M.
Van der Stucken, Frank
Van Iderstine, F. A.

Van Ingen, Mrs. E. H.
Van Name, J. Howard
Van Ness, J. Newton
Van Orden, Miss Anna
Van Orden, Miss Mary L.

Van Volkenburgh,Miss Susie E.

Vetlin, Miss Louise
Villard, Henry

Villard, Oswald Garrison
Vogt, Henry
Voislawsky, S. P.

W

Wade, William D.
Wallin, Dr. Mathilda K.
Walser, Dr. William C.
Ward, L. B.

Ward, Miss Jennie E.
Ward, Mrs. F. A. B.
Warren, Richard Henry
Waterbury, Miss Elsie
Waters, V.S., Dr. E.
Weaver, Miss Lucy A.
Webb, H. Walter
Weber, Joseph

Weeks, Rev. William H.
Weil, Charles M.

Wells, Miss Julia Chester
Welz, John

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

zygzsgsxzd. 2., .-- '

Wendel, Miss Ella
Wendell, Mrs. Gordon
Westcott, Miss Thalia
Wetherbee, Miss Lilah
Whalen, Richard
Wharton, Edward R.
Whitcomb, Miss Georgia
White, Horace

White, Miss May W.
White, S. V.
Whitewright, William
Whiting, Miss Matilda M.
Wicke, William
Wickham, William Hull
Wilhelm, i\“lrs. Emily
Wilkins, Morris

Willcox, William G.
Williams, Paul F.
Williams, R. C.

Wilson, Charles Hill
Wilson, D J.

Wilson, Gen. James Grant
Wilson, John M.
Winans, Isabel T.
Winans, Miss S. S.
Wing, L. Stuart

IIZ

Wing, Mrs. L. Stuart
Winter, George

Winthrop, Mrs, Elizabeth V, S,
Wissel, Andrew

Wood, George A. W.
Wood, P. Erskine

Wood, Mrs. H. G.

Wood, Mrs. Henry Duncan
Woolverton, William H.
Wooster, G. H.

Wooster, Mrs. G. H.

Work, James Henry

Work, Mrs. James Henry
Wotherspoon, Henry H.
Wright, Harriet

Wyckoff, Peter

Wyeth, Dr. J. A.

Wyeth, Mrs. J. A.

Wygant, W. E.

Wyman, Miss Esther

Z

Zebley, Mrs. John F.
Zeltner, Henry
Zimmerman, E. J.

 

 




  
   
 
   
 
   
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   

@hitnam @Rzmrd.

 

  

The Society mourns the loss of the following

members, Who have died during the year:

BRUNJES, GEORGE F.
DE LA VERGNE, JOHN C.
FREEL, EDWARD
FROELICH, JOSEPH J.
HARBECK, MRS. ELIZA D.
INGERSOLL, MRS. JAMES H.
LAIMBEER, RICHARD MOTT
LAWRENCE, JOHN

  

MOGK, V’ILLIAM
O’BERRY, LOFTUS

REMSEN, ROBERT G.

SMITH, DR. NORMAN

STARK, PHILIP

STEINWAY, VVILLTAM

STOKES, MISS EMMA HARTLEY
VAN CAMPEN, H.

 

 




 

 

  

 

YEAR 1896.

A

Abendroth, W. P. .
Acker, Merrall & Condit
A Friend to the Society
Allcott, Miss M. .

A Lover of Dogs, Brooklyn
Anderson Mrs. A. A. .
Anonymous .

Arnold, Constable & Co.

Atlantic & Paciﬁc Tea C0,,

The Great
Avery, Mr. and Mrs. Samuel P.

B

Ballin, OscarE. .
Barker, Miss IIsabel R.
Behr & Co.
Benedict, Miss Louise .
Berthele, J. G. .
Blackwell, Miss A.
Blackwell, MissJ. .
Blackwell, Mrs. FrancesW.
Blood Mrs. Catherine A.
Bossert, Louis .
Braidach, A F.
Brooks, Geo. W. .
Budweiser Brewing Co.
Bunce, John

Burger & Hower Brewing Co.

Burnham, L. S. .
Butler, Miss Rosalie . .
Butts, Mrs. Laura A.

C

Cahn, Mrs. Leopold . .
Campbell, John . . . .
Carll, Miss C. J. .
Caro, Benjamin . . . .
Carpenter, Miss Agnes
Carscallen, Mrs. J. D.

H
O

b) H 1-: U1 1—1
ummOmOmOmOHHHHmmm

IO
15

m
m
w
m
m
m
00
00

00

OO
00
OO
00
00
OO
00
00
OO
00
00
00
OO
00
OO
00
00
OO

00
00
00
00

500

4

OO

   

Cary, Edward . . . . .
Cary, Miss EllenG. . . .
Cash, Brooklyn . . .
Cash, Brooklyn . . . .
Cash, C. S. . . . . .
Cash, H. L. M. .

Cash, R. .
Castree,1 Miss Louise
Chapin, Mrs.
Charters, Allen
Chisolm, Mrs. W. E.
Chrome Steel Works
Cockey, Edward C.
Coddington, Gilbert S.
Congress Brewing Co.
Cooper, Miss Julia .

Corner, Thomas .

COSter, C. H.

Coster, Henry A.

Cowperthwait Co.

Crawford, R. L. .

Cross, Austin & Ireland Lum-
ber Co. . . .

Cross, Mrs. Frances E. .

D

Dahn & Son, John A. . .
Daly, Henry F. . . .
Daly, Mrs. HenryF. . . .
Darbee, Wm. H. . . . .
Dehon, Miss M. H. . . .
Dejonge, Louis . . . . .
Destin, Miss Lottie Y. . .
Dick, Mrs. William B. . ..
Dickey, Charles D. . . . .
Dillon, Mary. . . . . .
Dimock, Mrs. J. J.

Dodge, Mrs. Charles Cleveland
Dodge, Sr., Mrs. Wm. E.
Donnelly, J. J.

Dunphy, Miss Julia K

DONATIONS RECEIVED DURING THE

00
oo
oo
oo
oo
oo
oo
50
oo
oo
oo
oo
oo

00
00
OO
00
00
OO
00
OO

00

00
CD
00
OO
00
OO
00
oo
oo
50
OO

00
00
00

  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
     
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
  

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

E
Eastern Brewing Co. . . . $5
Eaton, Mrs. D. Cady . . Io
Ennis & Sons, Thos. . . . 5

Eppig, Joseph. . . . . . 5
F
Fallert’s Brewing Co., Joseph. 5
Farmers’ Feed Co. . . . . 5
Faye, Mrs. Ernest Frederick. 5
Flint, Mrs. Chas. R. . . . 25
Ford, James B. . . 25
Forrest, Mrs. William . 2
Frank Brewing Co., W. H. 5
Frese, Estate of Charles 5
Friend to Dumb Animals . 2
G
Gallatin, Miss Louise . . . 2
Gates, Miss Charlotte G. . . 2

Gilford, Samuel T. . . . Io
Gleason Mfg. Co., E. P. . . 2

Goodewill, Geo. . . I00
Greason & Son . . . . . 5
H

Haight, Mrs. Alicia. . . . I
Haight, Mrs. Alicia, in mem-

ory of“ Pete ” . . . . . 2
Hallett, C. W. . . . . . 2
Hamersley, Mrs. J. Hooker . 10
Hardy, Voorhees & Co. 20
Harkness, Mrs. S. V. 25
Harris, Laura C. IO
Harrison, Mrs. John I
Harrison, Mrs. Mary L. 5
Harrison, William 1
Hecla Iron Works . . 5
Heissenbuttell & Nearing . . 5
Hess, Mrs. Henry . . . . 2
Hillhouse, Mrs. Chas. Betts . 5
Hillman, Miss Antoinette . 4
Hoffman, Miss Dorothea W. . 5
Hoffman, Mrs. W. B. 5
Holbrook, Miss Lilian . 25
Hosch, F. . . . . 5
Hoyt, Dr. E. T. . 5
Hunt, Miss Ann . . . . 5

I _
Ilsley & Co., S. A.

India Wharf Brewing

. . 5
Co. . . IO
Indig, E. . . . I

116

00
00
OO
00

00
OO
00
00
OO
00
00
OO
00

oo
oo
oo
50
oo
oo

00

OO
00
00
00
OO
00
00
OO
00
OO
00
00
00
OO
00
00
OO
00
OO
00

00
OO
00

Ironclad Mfg. Co. .
Iselin, Miss Emilie E. .
Itgen, E. H. . . . . .

J

Jackson, L. F. . . .
Jacquins, Mrs. Edward
Jenkins, Jas. E. . . . .
Johnson, Dr. S. K. . . .
Jung, Mrs. A. N. . . .

K.

Kelsey & LOughlin .
Kendall, Miss Georgiana .
Kenyon & Newton .

Kimball, Misses Louisa B. and

Alice . . .
King & Adam.
King, Mrs. Percy R. .
Kipling, Miss Adeline M.

Klots & Bros.’ Sons, Walter T.

Koehler, Theo.
Korfman, Henry C.

Lane, Miss F. . . .
Langdon, Woodbury G.
Langler 81 Sons, N. . .
Lanier, Mrs. J. F. D. .
Lee, Mrs. J. L. .

Leibinger & Oehm Brewing Co.
Lewis, Mrs. Henry Dickinson.

Lewis & Co., S. W.
Lins 8: Sons, H. . . . .
Livingston, Miss Ann L. .
Lockitt’s Sons, George .
Long Island Brewery
Low, Edward A.

M
McAdam, Mrs. Phebe J.

McGovern, Right Rev. Thomas 10

Mackie, John .

Male, W. H. .

Mali, Charles .

Manning, Thomas
Marsten & Son

Martense, A. V. . . .
Mathewson, Mrs. C. F. .
Matthews, The ﬁrm of Job
Mattmann, Mrs. C. C. . .
May, Levy & May
Meeker, Dr. C. H. .
Meltzer Bros. .

N
U1U1U1U101U1

5

2

5

5
IO

5
5
I
10

5
IO

2 125

5

OO
00

OO
00
00
00
00

OO
00
OO

()O
00
00
OO
00
00
OO

00
OO
00
OO
00
00
OO
00
OO
00
OO
00
OO

00
00
OO
00
OO
00
OO
00
OO
00
OO
00
00
OO

.3."

 




 

   

   
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
   
    
  
  
  
  
    
  

Metzger, Mrs. A. . . $10
Milbank, Joseph . . . . 100
Milbank, Mrs. Joseph . 50
Miller, Allen S. . 2
Minturn, Miss Niobe . 2
Minturn, Miss Niobe, from a
friend . I
Mollenhauer Sugar Reﬁning
Co. . 5
\Ioller & Co., J. M. . . 5
Moquin- Offerman- Heisenbutel
Coal Co. . 5
Morton & Sons, John . . 5
Mott Iron Works, The J. L. . 5
Moulton, Mrs. F. A. . 100
N
New York Condensed Milk Co. 25
O
Osborn, Mrs. Charles W. . 2
Owen, Mrs. Thomas J. 5
P
Parsons Mrs. Mary Llewellyn 10
Paul, Ralph I
Payne, A. T. I
Fell, Gertrude I
Pell, John H. IO
PlaLit, S. & H. . 5
Pomroy, Mrs. H. K. I5
Porter, Mrs. M. A. . . . 4
Porter, Miss M. Lindsay . 5
Powell, D. B. . . 5
Pyne, Mrs. Moses Taylor . 5
_ R
Rapallo, Mrs. Edward H. IO
Ridley & Sons, Edward 5
Rogers, Mrs. M. S. . 5
Rushmore, I. W. 5
S
Saxton, Mrs. M. 8
Schaefer Brewing Co., F. & M. 5
Schwippell, Mrs. Fanny I
Seccomb, Mrs. E. A. 5
Seitz, M. . 5

OO
00
00
OO
00

00

00
00

OO
00
OO
00

00

OO
00

OO
00
OO
00
00
OO
00
OO
00
00
OO

00
00
OO
00

00
OO
00
OO
00

117

S. E. \V. through W. F. Bar-
nard, Supt. . . . . $.IOO

Siebrecht, \V. H. . ,,

Smith, Mrs. A. W. .

Smith, F. N. .

Smith, Gerritt .

Stevens, Miss R. E.

Steward, Miss S.

Stutz, Louis . . . . . .

Ui-thotomr-q

T
Taylor, James R.

Thimig 3ottling Co.

T hom as, Mrs I udlow .
Thompson, James .
Ihorne, Mrs. Phebe Anna.
T,horp Mrs. J. H. .
'1isdale, Mrs. Emma L.
Tisdale, Ixobert13.

Tom and Jim . .

Torry, Mrs. \V. J.
Trevor, Mrs. H. G.

H 4:3
0 1—1 1—101me):an

L}!

U

Ughetta, Henry L.

Ulshoeffer, W. G. .

United States 13 31mg Mfg. Co.
United States Express Co. . I

OUlUlUl

V

A. D. V. . . . . 2
Valentine s Sons, S. . . . 5
Vanderbilt, F. W. . . . IOO
Vanderbilt, M1s F. W. . . IOO
Vogel & I3ros., William . . 5

W

Wallace, W. H. .

Ward, Asline .

Ward, Miss F. L.

Weil, Lemuel

Wells, George I3.

VVestcott Express Co.

VVilde’s Sons, Samuel
Williams, Mrs. Percy P. .
Wood, VVolford . . . . .
Woolson, I. H. . . . . .
Wright, Miss Harriet . .

H
U114 HU‘lUlO HU1\IU1U'I

OO
00
00
OO
00
OO
00
00

00
OO
00
00
OO
00
00
OO
25
00

00
OO
00

OO
00
OO
00
O()

00
00
OO
00
OO
00
00
OO
00
OO

‘2"! Aﬂﬁi—‘FJ =57— ;_

- .—I‘ ._...~_._.;.- .. -_

am

 

 




 

CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE BROOKLYN
BUILDING FUND RECEIVED DUR-
ING THE YEAR 1896.

Brooklyn Humane Association

Brooklyn VVoman’s Dumb Animal Aid Association

 

 

 




 

New Haven........
DELAWARE.
\Vilmington . . . . .. . . .
DISTRICT 01? COLUMBIA.
Washington .. . . . . . . .
FLORIDA.
St. Augustine. . . .
Jacksonville. ..
Pensacola . . . . . . .
Tampa. . . .
GEORGIA.
Augusta. . . . ..
Atlanta . . . . . .
Macon.
Brunswick. . . .
ILLINOIS.
Chicago . . . . .
Aurora
Rockland . . .
Galesburg. . .
Quincy
Shelbyville .
Champaign
Springﬁeld .
Jacksonville
Jerseyville.
Harvard . . .
Danville . . .
INDIANA.
Indianapolis. .
Crawfordsville .
Evansville. . .
Fort \Vayne . .
South Bend
Terre Haute .

 

 

 

The New Haven S. P. C. A. . . . .

Delaware S. P. C. A... .

The \Vashington Humane Society.

St. Augustine Humane Society
The Jacksonville S. P. C. A.. .
Humane Society ..
TampaS. P. C. A...........
Georgia S. P. C. A.*........
Atlanta Humane Society. . . . . . . . . . . .. . .
Macon Branch of Georgia S. P. C A.. . . .
Brunswick Branch of Georgia S. P. C.

The Illinois Humane Society *.. . . .. . . . . . . . . .
The Aurora Humane Society. . . . . . . . . . ..... .
\Vinnebago County Branch Illinois Humane Society
Galesburg Branch Illinois Humane Society... .
T he Quincy Humane Society . . . . . . . ......
The Shelby County Branch of T he Illinois Humane
Champaign Branch Illinois Humane Society. . . . . . .
The Humane Society of Springﬁeld. . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Jacksonville Humane Society . .
The Jerseyville Humane Society P C. A. 8; C. .
Harvard Branch of The Illinois Humane Society

United States Humane Society . . .

cocoa-o-

Ionoa-o-‘o-

The Indiana Humane Society* . .
Montgomery County Humane Society P. C. A. & C.

&A..

The Evansville Humane Society P. C. \V.,( 3.
Fort \Vayne Humane Society. . . . . . . . . . . .. .
The South Bend Humane Society. . . .. . . .. . . . . . .
Terre Haute Humane Society

 

 

* Fiscal year. 1“ Large and small.

 

 

 

 

 

anon-ooo'

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

INDIANA—Continued.
Muncie

Elkhart.......

Richmond.............

Peru..........
IOWA.
Des Moines . . .
Sioux City . . . .
Iowa City . .
KANSAS.
Wichita . . . .
Topeka . . . .
KENTUCKY.
Louisville . .
Henderson .
Frankfort . .
Covington. . .
LOUISIANA.
New Orleans . .
MAINE.
Portland . . . . . .
Bangor
Waterville. . . . .
Lewiston. . . . . .
MARYLAND.
Baltimore . . . . .
MASSACHUSETTS.
Boston... .
Taunton . . . . . .
Lowell.
MICHIGAN.
Detroit
Grand Rapids .
Kalamazoo. . . .
MINNESOTA.
St. Paul.......

0

 

 

 

Muncie Humane Society . . . . . . .. .
Elkhart Humane Society*. . . . . . . . .
\Vayne County Humane Society . .

 

 

 

 

o o

The Humane Society of Peru, Ind

The Iowa Humane Society. . . .. . . .. .

The Sioux City Humane Society. . .
Iowa City Humane Society ........

The Kansas Humane Society. . . .. .
The Foster Humane Society . . . . . .

Kentucky Humane S. P. C .........

Henderson Humane Society ..... . .
Franklin County Humane Society.
Kenton County Humane Society. .

Louisiana State S. P. C. A.* . . . .. .

MaineStateS. P. A.*,,_.......--

The Bangor Humane Society. . . ..
Waterville S. P. C. A

Lewiston and Auburn S. P. C. A. . .

The Maryland S. P. C. A. . . .. . . ..

The Massachusetts S. P. C. A. . . .
Taunton Humane SOCiety*. . . . . . . .
The Lowell Humane Society . . . .

Michigan S. P.C.A .....
Kent County Humane Society. . .
Kalamazoo Humane Society . . . .

MinnesotaS.P.C

I49

00.0

0.0.

92
1648

O...

122

 




Minneapolis .
Duluth . . . . .
St.Pau1.. . . .
Owatonna. . .

Minneapolis Humane Society. ...... ..
Duluth Humane Society . . . . ..... . . . .
St.PaulS.P.C............ ..

Steele County Humane Socie .

Winona. . .

St. Cloud . .
MISSISSIPPI.
Natchez . .
MISSOURI.
St. Louis. . . .
St. Louis. . . .
Kansas City.
St. Joseph ..
Sedalia . . . . .
NEBRASKA.
Omaha . . .

NEW HAMPSHIRE.

Portsmouth . .
Keene.......
NEW JERSEY.
Newark... . ..
Jersey City. . .
Cape May . . .
Vineland. . . .

v n

on.

Morristown .......
Camden .

Hackensack .

Elizabeth ...........

Perth Amboy.

Cranford ...... .

NEW YORK.

New York (Headq’e

I .

rs)
Sing Sing...........
Rochester. . . ........

 

The Winona Humane Society. . . . ......
St. Cloud Humane Society. . . . . . . . . . . .

The Mississippi S. P. C. A.. . . . . . . . .

Humane Society of Missouri . . . . . . . .. .
Woman’s Humane Society of Missouri.
The Humane Society of Kansas City. . . . .
The Humane Society of St. Joseph. . . . . . .
The Humane Society of Sedalia, Missouri.

Nebraska Humane Society. . . . . . . . . . . . .

New Hampshire S. P. C. A............
The Keene Humane Society. . . . . . . .. . .

The New Jersey S. P. C. A.*. . ..
The Hudson County District S. P. C. A.
Cape May, N. J., District S. P. C. A. . . ..
The Vineland S. P. C. A. . . . .
Morris County Branch New Jersey S. P
The Camden S. P. C. A.
The Bergen County S. P. C. A............
The S. P. C. A. of Union County, N. J ........
Perth Amboy S. P. C. A ..... . . .

Cranford, N. J., Branch of The N. J. S. P. C. A.

The American S. P. C. A:
Sing Sing Branch of The American S. P. C. A. .
The Humane Society of Rochester, N. Y., P. C.

 

 

 

 

* Fiscal year.

1“ Large and small.

 

 

Jr." >2‘...:.1_f‘:;f‘-:'-: :3" “EW‘ :43—...;.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

It Includes work of its own Agents throughout the State.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

N E\V

Buffalo

Poughkeepsie. . .
Newburgh ..........

Oswego . . . .
Fulton. . . . .
Syracuse . .
Nyack . . . .
Elmira . . . .
Binghamton

Kingston . . .

\Vatertown .
Albany . . . .
Lockport ..
Cortland . . .
Rome . . . . .
Auburn. . . .

NORTH CAROLINA.

Asheville. . . . . . .
\Vilmington . . . .

OHIO.

Cincinnati
Cleveland . .
Canton.. . . .
Columbus.
Toledo... . .
\Varren . . . .
Dayton . . . .
Athens. . . . .

Sandusky .........

Portsmouth.

.

Ashtabula. . . .
Chagrin Falls. . .

Pomeroy... . . .

Youngstown . . .
Yellow Springs

 

an.

YORK——- Continued.

 

.....

      

o

 

   

 

The Erie County S. P. C. A. . . . . . . .. .
The Poughkeepsie S. P. C. A. . . . . . ...
The Newburgh S. P. C. A.
S. P. C. A. of Oswego City, N. Y... . .
S. P. C. A. of Village of F

The Central New York S

ulton, N. Y}. . .
. P. C. A.*. . .

The Rockland County S. P. C. A. . . . . .
The Elmira S. P. C. A.....* . .
Broome County S. P. C. A... . . .

The Ulster County S. P. C.
n County S.
Mohawk and Hudson
The Niagara

~le’fferso

P.C.A.....

The Cortland County S. P.
The Stevens S. P. C. A. of Rome, N. Y. . . .
The Cayuga County S. P. C. A. . . . . . ..

C. A

The North Carolina S. P. C. A. . . . . . . .
North Carolina S. P. C. C.

The Ohio Humane Society. . . .. . . . . . . .
Cleveland Humane Society. . . . . . . . . . . .
nton Humane Society. . . . . .. . .

The Ca

Humane Society of City

Toledo Humane Society. . . . . . . . . . . . ..

The 'l.‘rumbull County Hu

mane Society. .

Dayton, Ohio, Humane Society P. C. C.
Athens S. P. C. A... . .....

The Erie County Humane
Scioto County
Ashtabula County

The Chagrin Falls

Pomeroy Branc

Humane So

The Youngstown Humane
Yellow Springs Humane Society. . . . . . . . . . . .. . . .

Ciety ........
Humane Society ........
Humane Society P. C. C.
h Humane Society. . . . . . . .

Society. . . .

I...

of Columbus, Ohio.

00-.

River Humane Society. . . . .
County S. P. C. A.............

Society................

...-0.0...

coco-co

&A.

noun-0101..

‘~_

Cl
0’3

(‘1 (Q

HhNO‘m
m

 

300

988
50
21

124

 

 




Tifﬁn ...... . ........ Seneca County Humane Society. .

Chardon .
OREGON.
Portland . . . . .
PENNSYLVANIA.
Philadelphia. .
Philadelphia. .
Lancaster . . . .
York
Pittsburgh. . .
West Chester.
Readina . . . .
Williamsport .
Scranton . . . . . .
Erie....
\Vilkes-Barre .
Altoona . . . . .
RHODE ISLAND
Providence... . . .
Newport... . . . ..
SOUTH CAROLINA.
Charleston . . ..
Columbia . . . . . .
Greenville . . . . .
Spartanburg. . . .
TENNESSEE.
Memphis. .
Chattanooga . . .
Knoxville... .
Nashville. . .
TEXAS.
Galveston . . .
\Vaco. . . .
UTAH.
Salt Lake City. .

l
1
l

 

cacao-ta...

lhe Chardon Humane Society. ...... . . . . . . . .
The Oregon Humane Society.. . . . . . . . . . . . ..

The Pennsylvania S. P. C. A . . . ..
\Vomen’s Branch of Pennsylvania S. P. C. A.
LancasterS.P.C.A.........
The York County S. P. C. A...............
\Vestern Pennsylvania Humane Society. . . . . . .
Chester County Auxiliary \Vomen’s Branch Pa. S. P.C..A.
Berks County S. P. C. A.. .......
Lycoming CountyS P. C. A.............. .
Lackawanna Branch of Pennsylvania S. P. C. A. . ..
Northwestern Pennsylvania Humane Society. . .
Luzerne County Humane Association P. C. C. &

The Central Pennsylv ania Humane Societv. . . . . .

Rhode SISland S. P. C. A.* . . . . . . ..
Newport Branch of Rhode Island S.

15 c.

.A. *.

The South Carolina S. P. C. A. . . . .
Richland County, South Carolina S.
Greenville Branch of South Carolina
The Spartanburg S. P. C. A . . . . . .
Tennessee S. ..C A. & C . . .
Chattanooga Illumane Society.

Knox County Humane Society.
Nashville Humane Society. . .

The GalvestonS .P. C. .A.
The lens Humane Society. . .

. .l Utah Humane Society. . .

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

* Fiscal year.




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

VERMONT.
Bristol ..... .

       

            

Chester.......
Randolph .. . . .
VIRGINIA.
Richmond . . . .
Norfolk. . . .. . .
Portsmouth . . .
Lynchburg. . . .
WASHINGTON.
Tacoma
WEST VIRGINIA.

                      

WISCONSIN.

Green Bay . . .

Manitowoc . . .

          

Janesville . . . .

      

Halifax ......
Hamilton . . . .

Montreal. . . ..
Ottawa

 

  

     
    

Brattleborougho. .
Rutland..........
Burlington . . . . .

Wheeling . . . . . .

Milwaukee . . ..
Oshkosh . . . . . .
Sheboygan . . . .

Quebec.......
St. John ....._
Toronto ... ..
Fredericton ..
Moncton . . . . .

_._..__./—————-—-—_.

Port Washington.

BRITISH No. AMER

ICA.

Kingston ...........

ou-o..;

Vermont Humane Society
The Brattleborough S. P. C. A. . . . . . . . .
SocietyP.C.A ......
Vermont Society P. C. A... . . . . . . . . . .
Chester Humane Society. . . . . . . . . . . . .

The Randolph Humane Society. . . . . . .

The Lynchburg

West Virginia S. P. C. A . ......

Janesvill

 

 

Richmond S. P. C. A,........-....
NorfolkS. P. C.A........ .............. ..
Woman’s Humane Society of Virginia. . .
Humane Society . ......

TacomaS.P.C.A.... .......

Wisconsin Humane Society . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . ..
Fox River Valley District, The Wis. Humane Society
Sheboygan Branch of The Wis.
The \Visconsin S. P. C. A

Manitowoc Branch of Wisc
Organized Committee of Wisconsin
e Humane Society. . . . . . . . . . .

The NovaScotia S. P. C
Hamilton S. P. C. A*. . . . . ...... .

Kingston Humane Society .

TheCanadian S. P. C...A.........

OttawaS. P. CA
QuebecS. P. C. A
New Brunswick S. P. C. A

Toronto Humane Society
FrederictonS. P. C. A,,.............

MonctonS. P. C.A.. ......
_/~—r”

"‘ Fiscal year.

 

 

o

   

Humane Society . . . . . .

onsin Humane Society . . . .
Humane Society . . .

 

 

 

 

 

*

 

 

 

 

 

...-...

 




 

 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
   

HISTORY.

THE American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Ani-
mals was organized and incorporated April IO, 1866, being the
ﬁrst society organized in America for the protection of animals,
its founder and ﬁrst president being the late Henry Bergh,
to whose noble self-sacriﬁces and untiring energies the cause
of animal protection in this country owes its origin. The his-
tory of the Society, therefore, is practically an account of the
inception and development of the work of animal protection in
America.

In 1862 Mr. Bergh was appointed Secretary of Legation at
St. Petersburg. While in Russia he found himself on several
occasions constrained to interfere in cases of atrocious cruelty,
and but for his ofﬁcial position he would have been exposed
to personal violence. His attention was thus directed to the
subject of humanity to the brute creation, and while in Lon-
don on his way home in 1865, he made the acquaintance of
the Earl of Harrowby, then president of The Royal Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, who gave him
much valuable information concerning the operations of that
Society in England. On Mr. Bergh’s arrival at home, he found
that no similar society existed in this country, and he immedi-
ately devoted himself to the establishment of a society for the
United States. At the outset the proposition met with little
encouragement, and, without the assistance of the press, it might
probably have failed. On February 8, 1866, Mr. Bergh delivered
a lecture in Clinton Hall, in which he pleaded his cause with such
force of argument and such warmth of eloquent conviction, that
expressions of sympathy and offers of assistance were freely made

 

 

 




 

 

129

ORGANIZATION OF OTHER SOCIETIES——PROGRESS OF THE WORK.

The organization and inﬂuence of The American Society soon
led to the establishment of local societies in all parts of the Union
and in other countries on the American Continent and elsewhere.
The number of local societies incorporated in the United States
is now 180, and in other American nations I9 societies have been
established and incorporated since 1866, making a total of 199.

The prevention of cruelty to animals has been the beginning
of many other humane organizations. Thus, in 1874, the Society
appeared as prosecutor in a case of cruelty to children, and it
then appeared to be advisable to organize a separate Society for
the Prevention of Cruelty to Children. This was done in 1875,
under the Presidency of Mr. John D. Wright ; Mr. Henry Bergh
and Mr. Elbridge T. Gerry, then counsel of this Society, becom-
ing Vice-Presidents of the new society, the ﬁrst of its kind in the
world, which has done so much and such effectively good work in
the last twenty-one years.

The establishment of these and other organizations has repre-
sented an increased interest in humane work which has found a
practical expression in the legislation of nearly every State in the
Union. At this date there is not a single State in which cruelty
of any kind is not forbidden by the law, under stringent penalties
for disobedience. Some defects continue to exist, of course ; but,
speaking broadly, it may be said that the laws on this subject are
good. What is now required is that the great mass of the people
shall be educated into sympathy with the humanity of the law.
That is now the greatest work of the Society, and it has constant
reason to be grateful for the assistance and encouragement which
it receives from the press, the pulpit, and the judges of the courts.

Meanwhile the practical work is not neglected. The ofﬁcers
of the Society are clothed with ample police powers. They wear
a distinctive uniform and patrol the streets by day and by night.
They have full power to arrest and prosecute offenders against
the laws relating to animals. In addition to the uniformed police,
the Society has nearly two hundred special agents in different
parts of the State, clothed with the same authority and engaged

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

n- ﬁx.

 

f:-‘~;—.¢_..,u;.__ £1341 ﬁﬁ:€'.ﬂi-, " '

130

in enforcing the laws for the prevention of cruelty. In the cities
of New York and Brooklyn the Society has ambulances for the
removal of injured, sick, and disabled animals; appliances for
the rescue of drowning animals and animals which have fallen
into excavations; and a patrol wagon which carries with it the
necessary apparatus and medicines for rendering aid to injured
animals in the streets.

The ofﬁcial organ of the Society is OUR ANIMAL FRIENDS, a
monthly magazine which is devoted to the cause of humanity
to all living creatures, and which has an extensive and growing
circulation. '

 




 

 

AN APPEAL.

AN erroneous idea is entertained by many that this Society is
beyond the necessity for further appeals to our benevolent and
generous—hearted people for aid. It receives no appropriations
from the City or State, and is dependent upon voluntary subscrip—
tions, donations, and bequests. The usefulness of the organization
could be largely increased, and the ﬁeld of its labors greatly
extended, if it had a more adequate pecuniary support. As all
know, the objects of the Society are to enforce the humane laws,
to investigate complaints, to care for lost or abandoned animals
or to destroy them mercifully, to suppress cruel beating, over-
loading, and over-driving, and to protect and assist sick, maimed,
and starving animals.

Another prominent object of the Society is the distribution of
humane literature, out of which shall grow not only the kind treat-
ment of animals, but the higher elevation of our own race. It may
be desirable to state in this connection that during the past year
the Society has published and distributed nearly ten millions of
pages of printed matter in the interest of humanity to animals, and
we have had ample reason to know that the effect has been fully
as great as could have been reasonably hoped for this purpose;
and to these ends we earnestly invite your pecuniary assistance.

A special appeal is made for contributions towards the Building
Fund of the Society for the construction of permanent headquarters.

Contributions to the Society will be acknowledged in the
annual report. Y

Li”? a.‘ 34:9,? ‘1‘ A .

“—1.. «- 5M

.45: A

';._ s

i: i.
l ~,
t!
1;;
it ,
2.?

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

A.‘ " ". L “AM‘fiIJ $33)” g“ I"; A— ,

T 0 l/wse w/zo may feel disposed z‘o a’omzte éy WILL to
flee éenevolem oéjeez‘s of M21? Soez'ez‘y, Me following

is suémz'z‘z‘ea’ as a form :

Form of Bequesz‘ of Personal Property.

I give and bequeath unto “The American Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals,” a corporation created by
and existing under the laws of the State of New York, the sum
of ....................................................... dollars, to be applied to
the uses of said corporation.

Form of Dew'se of Real Property.

I give and devise unto “The American Society for the Pre-
vention of Cruelty to Animals,” a corporation created by and
existing under the laws of the State of New York, all [here insert
description of property],together with all the appurtenances,
tenements, and hereditaments thereunto belonging or in any wise
appertaining, to have and to hold the same unto the said cor-
poration, its successors and assigns, forever.

 

 

 




\I , 2.1;. {(3193:} I..- “214,3...11'. ‘1‘... It“? 1‘ WI. M? A . AJI V 1“ iu g“ :w‘FﬂL mm JlJz l. ‘ vtl‘ l 4 . $7 “I .llvqls 1.” I” ﬁr ,5. _ I117 , . .1 14! ‘ . , , . .
V . ‘ I . .
A
1 \t I f f

. .i\ .0,

   

._

 

 

 

-¥ “ -.‘-_

 

 

 




THE AMERICAN SOCIETY

FOR THE

PREVENTION OE‘CRUEETY‘TO ANIMALS

INCORPORATED BX TI iE'ItxfIwg 0E NI-ZW YURI;
ARI III 1631,1800.

«FIRST ANNIIA R/‘EPURT

FQR‘ "i“HE YEAR liX-I'.)f:N(j} 1")1‘1CIZRHI‘IER 3;. mt».

)

9“:
t w..- *

JOHN P. HAINESI F’RESIDENT.

HEADQUART ERS OF TH E SOC} 1‘) TY :
10 EAST TWENTY-SECOND STREET,

N EW YORK.

1897.

 




 

 

 

NEW YORK

, 10 EAST 22d STREET

TEMPORARY HEADQUARTERS

Lw» \mA-L . ,-

\kx.

 

 




 

9

the business of the Society. But while I did urge the securing of
a suitable site, I did not advocate the immediate erection of a
building. After full consideration the Executive Committee
resolved to secure a site, and after examining several locations
which were found to be in the market, a committee, appointed for
that purpose, recommended the purchase of the lot which has
now been secured, at the northwest corner of Madison Avenue
and Twenty-sixth Street. It was also thought advisable to pro-
ceed without further delay in the erection of a building. In this,
however, the Board is confronted with a very serious question,
namely this, whether to erect at once such an ediﬁce as we might
expect satisfactorily to answer all our purposes for an indeﬁnite
period of time, or to erect at a smaller cost a building which might
answer present purposes, but might not be so satisfactory a few
years hence. It is a serious question, in regard to which I have
no personal opinion to offer at this time. I feel sure that the
Board will come to a wise conclusion. I should greatly deprecate
any crippling of the active operations of the Society which might
be caused by a premature investment, even in a building which is
so much needed, and yet I should greatly regret the erection of
a building with which we could not conﬁdently expect to be per-
manently satisﬁed. If the effort could be hopefully made, I would
earnestly urge the Board to endeavor to obtain special contribu—
tions in aid of our building fund, by which the difﬁculties of this
perplexing problem might be removed. When I consider the
long course of difﬁculties and perplexities through which our
Society has passed, and the ultimate success which has attended
it in every case, I cannot believe that the apparent difﬁculties
of this great and hopeful forward movement will prove to be
insuperable.

In full review of the progress of the past year and of former
years, I think that the Society may look forward with reasonable
conﬁdence to the work of the year upon which we are about to
enter.

JOHN P. HAINES,
President.
Daeméer 31, 1896.

 




 

>wwmm... 20. waNA.

 

wOmm. F>Zm >20 m_<_>0_>4.m0 103mm. mmmOch mmOZ > .umUUrmw.

 




 

 

 

 

Feb.

Feb.

Feb.

Feb.

Feb.

Feb.

Feb.

Feb.

Feb.

20.

20.

20.

23.

23.

24.

25.

26.

28

some innocent or weak Victim. It happened that a horse belonging to
a rival grocer occupied a stall in the same stable with Murphy’s horse,
and while going to the water-trough the animal stopped and took a
mouthful of hay from a bundle Murphy had thrown on the ﬂoor. Be-
tween Murphy and Herrmann, the driver of the latter horse, there was
bad blood, and the former had threatened to do his fellow-driver bodily
harm, but, owing to the latter’s superior physical stature, had not carried
out his threats. But here was an opportunity to show his hatred, which
he took advantage of by picking up a pitchfork and throwing it at
the unoffending horse, striking it in the side, making three bad wounds ;
then he ran away. Herrmann reported the case to the Society, and
early next morning Murphy was arrested, subsequently convicted by
the Court of Special Sessions, and ﬁned ﬁfteen dollars.

Harry Cummings, of Brooklyn, for unjustiﬁably mutilating a dog by
cutting offa portion of its ears with a knife, was sentenced by Justice
Walsh to pay a ﬁne of twenty-ﬁve dollars.

Louis Cohen, for twisting the wings of several turkeys and letting
them lie on the ground for many hours in that condition, was ﬁned
ten dollars by the Court of Special Sessions.

Joseph Dody, for compelling a lame, sore, weak, and feeble horse to
drag a loaded cart, was ﬁned twenty-ﬁve dollars by the Court of
Special Sessions.

Edward Lowenthal was ﬁned twenty-ﬁve dollars by the Court of
Special Sessions for driving a horse while lame in off fore foot, caused
by a diseased hoof. The animal was attached to a loaded wagon and
could hardly put its foot to the ground.

Owen Paton was ﬁned ﬁve dollars by Justice Haggerty for throwing
a live dog having a broken leg into the Wallabout Canal. The dog was
rescued by the Society’s ofﬁcer and humaner disposed of.

John Strobel, for over—driving a horse until it fell from exhaustion,
then abandoning the animal in the street to die, was sentenced to pay
a ﬁne of twenty-ﬁve dollars or to be imprisoned for twenty-ﬁve days
by Justice Eisenmonger at Schenectady.

Bernard Bluestein was arrested while urging a lame, sore, weak, and
feeble horse to haul a loaded wagon. The defendant was sentenced
by the Court of Special Sessions to pay a ﬁne of twenty-ﬁve dollars or,
in default, to be imprisoned for ﬁve days.

Michael Restler, of Guttenberg, N. J., was ﬁned ten dollars by the
Court of Special Sessions for striking his horse in the face with his
clenched ﬁst. The blows were severe enough to cause the animal’s
nose to bleed.

Caspar Schmitt, of Oneonta, for putting a live cat into a bag, then




 

 

in the penitentiary for ﬁve months
cutting out a horse’s eyes.

June II.

When or—

is horse was lazy, and down came the

lash once more upon the poor creature’s sides. It was the last blou'.

however; for Engel was pulled off his wagon and given in charge of a

police ofﬁcer, and the horse taken to a stable. The offender was sen-

tenced by the justices of the Court of Special Sessions to pay a ﬁne of
twenty—ﬁve dollars or to imprisonment for ﬁve days.

dered to stop, Engel claimed h

y to your horse,” said
The case as
The animal

“You are ﬁned twenty-ﬁve dollars for cruelt
Judge Schatz, of Mount Vernon, to Louis Cavaliero.
presented by the Society’s ofﬁcer w
was in a condition of physical distr
weak, and sore.

the horse every step of the way, causing a mass of bleeding wounds.
Cavaliero was indifferent to the animal’s suffering, and did not realize
it had any rights which he, Cavaliero, was bound to respect, until the
sentence above was pronounced. The horse was humanely disposed of.

June 12. “ You should not beat your horse for falling down,” said a bright—

looking youth to James D. Shields, who was striking a horse on the
head and body with the butt end of a whip. The animal had fallen
from weakness and was unable to rise. Instead of desisting, Shields
continued to abuse the horse, and threatened to treat the boy in the
same manner if he did not go on. The young fellow went off, only t0
return with a policeman, who promptly put Shields under arrest and
notiﬁed the Society about the horse. The ambulance was sent for and
the animal taken to a hospital. Shields was subsequently sentenced
by the justices of the Court of Special Sessions to pay a ﬁne of ten
dollars or to serve two days in the city prison.

Louis Frotenberg, of 246 East Fifteenth Street, was ﬁned twenty-
ﬁve dollars by the Court of Special Sessions for beating a horse in a
cruel manner. The defendant had been cautioned not to abuse the
horse, or he would get into trouble. The warning was not heeded,
and Frotenberg was arrested and ﬁned as above.

Ira W. Sayers, of DeKalb junction, N. Y., was ﬁned three dollars
and costs by Justice Haile, of Gouverneur, N. Y., for keeping calves
for shipment without food or drink for thirty—six hours.

June 13.

June I5. Frederick Smith, for driving a horse suffering from sores on both
sides of the breast, measuring5 x 5 inches, was ﬁned twenty-ﬁve

 

 




 

 

Aug.

Aug.

Aug.

Aug.

Aug.

Aug.

Sept.

Sept.

Sept.

Sept.

Sept.

44

for inciting ‘two dogs to ﬁght. McGuire also assaulted the keeper of
the Brooklyn Shelter for Animals while the latter was taking an un-
licensed bulldog to the Shelter. Justice Steers placed the offender
under three hundred dollars bail to keep the peace for six months.

22. James Manyel, of Richmond, S. 1., was ﬁned ten dollars by Justice
Galloway for unjustiﬁably shooting a dog.

. 22. Charles Sheedman, of \Vedgwood, N. Y., was ﬁned ten dollars by

Justice Everts for carrying sheep in a cruel and inhuman manner.

25. Louis Trayler, for kicking a calf several times in the body, then
throwing the animal out of the vehicle to the stone pavement, was ﬁned
twenty—ﬁve dollars by the Court of Special Sessions.

27. Frank May, of Jamaica, L. 1., abandoned a disabled horse to die
on the public highway, for which he was ﬁned twenty-ﬁve dollars by
Justice Ash, at Richmond Hill.

. 27. George Schneider, of Jamaica, L. 1., was ﬁned ten dollars by Justice

Ash for striking a horse on the head several times with a sledge—
hammer.

29. Jacob Selch, of Wakeﬁeld, N. Y., was ﬁned ﬁve dollars by Justice
Baird for kicking a horse in the belly.

2g. Harvey Mariacle, of Cazenovia, N. Y., was sentenced to pay a ﬁne
of ten dollars or to serve ten days’ imprisonment by Justice Rouse for
driving a lame horse after being warned by the Society’s agent not to
do so.

29. Albert Kayser, of Caton, N. Y., was ﬁned ten dollars by Recorder
Cheney for prodding a horse with a pitchfork.

I. John Fitzpatrick was sentenced to pay a ﬁne of twenty-ﬁve dollars
or to serve ﬁve days in the city prison by the Court of Special Sessions
for throwing glass on the public highway.

2. Herbert E. Better, of Newtown, L. 1., was ﬁned twenty-ﬁve dollars
by Judge Monteverde for driving a team of horses suffering from sores
on the body, unprotected from the harness. The animals had been
working for several days in the condition above described.

3. Vincencio DeFillippo, for causing and permitting a sick and sore
horse to be worked by one Carmine Conta~relli, was sentenced by the
Court of Special Sessions to pay a ﬁne of twenty-ﬁve dollars or to
serve ﬁve days in the city prison.

3. Mike Rocco, of Brooklyn, was ﬁned ﬁve dollars by Judge Teale for
dragging two lame horses behind a wagon in which defendant was
riding. The horses were unﬁt for any use and were humanely
destroyed.

7. Patrick McCann, of Kingston, N. Y., threw a live dog into the river
and then threw bricks at it. Several of the missiles struck, the animal,




 

 

 

mmOOXF<Z >§mcr>zom IOCmmlmIO<<_ZQ IOmmm >_<_mc_n>20m >20 I>mzmmm _Z .uOm_._._OZ.

 

 




   
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
   
   
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
     

 

 

61

The Quincy Humane Society.
Quincy.
H. P. WALTON, President. ' | LYMAN MCCARL, Secretary.
The Shelby County Branch of The Illinois Humane Society.
Sneléynille.
DR. T. L. CATHERWOOD, Pres. | MRS. ELLA HAMLIN, Secretary.
Champaign Branch of The Illinois Humane Society.
Caampazgn.
HENRY TREVETT, President. | A. H. BRYAN, Secretary.
The Humane Society of Springﬁeld.
Springﬁeld.
FRANK W. TRACY, President. | HOWARD K. WEBER, Secretary.
Jacksonville Humane Society.

jae/es‘onniile.

A. C. VVADSWORTH, President. I WM. PATERSON, Secretary pro iem.

The Jerseyville Humane Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals and Children.

jerseynille.

MISS ADA C. DAVENPORT, Pres. | DR. H. R. GLEDHILL, Secretary.
Harvard Branch of The Illinois Humane Society.
Harvard.

W. C. WELLINGTON, President. I MRS. W. C. WELLINGTON, Sec.
United States Humane Society.

13 Earl Main Street, Dannille.

JOHN W. HALLS, President. I I. N. KINNEY, Secretary.

 

INDIANA.
The Indiana Humane Society.

68 West Market Sireez‘, Indianapolis.
HORACE MCKAY, President. | D. W. COFFIN, Secretary.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




   
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
     

69

MONROE COUNTY.

The Humane Society of Rochester, N. Y., for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals.

Incorporated August 9, 1888.
90 Sop/ltd Street, Roeﬁester.
—————- President. | Mlss ELIZA AMSDEN, Secretary.

 

ERIE COUNTY.
The Erie County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Incorporated September 21, 1888.
39 Erie Street, Buj‘alo.
WALTER DEVEREUX, President. I MRs. LILY LORI) TIFFT, Sec.

 

DUTCHESS COUNTY.
The Poughkeepsie Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Incorporated May 18. 1889.

305 lV/z'll Street, Pozzg/zteeepste.
WILLIAM B. CARPENTER, Pres. I CHARLES E. COSSUM, Secretary.

 

. ORANGE COUNTY.

The Newburgh Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Incorporated July 22, 1889.
. Newly rglz.
GEORGE W. PETERS, President. | A. E. LAYMAN, Secretary.

 

OSWEGO COUNTY.

Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals of Oswego City, N. Y.
Incorporated September 23, 1889.
Doolittle Home, Oswego.
T. MORRIS PEROT, President. I MRS. G. M. GARDENIER,Secretary.
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals of the Village of
Fulton, N. Y.
Incorporated November 17, 1891.
Fulton.
| MRS. C. H. DAVID, Secretary.

   

THOMAS HU NTER, President.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

76

The Greenville Branch of The South Carolina Society for the Preven-
tion of Cruelty to Animals.

Greenw'lle.
W. E. JOHNSTONE, President. IP. T. HAYNE, Secretary.

The Spartanburg Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

 

Spartaaaarg.
J B. LEE, President. ICHARLES H. HENRY, Secretary.
TENNESSEE.
Tennessee Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals and
Children.
326 Main Street, Memphis.
'TOM GALE, President. ‘ MINTER PARKER, Secretary.

Chattanooga Humane Society.
Chattanooga.
D. G. CURTIS, M.D., President. | H. H. SOUDER, Secretary.

Knox County Humane Society.
A’aexw’lle.
W. L. TRENT, President. | REV. W. H. BATES, Secretary.

Nashville Humane Society.

P. 0. Box 46, Nashville.
NV. H. PAYNE, President. ] MAT HOKE, Secretary.

 

TEXAS.
The Galveston Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Galveston.
J. C. S. SPENCER, Pres. pro tem. |W. H. RITTER, Secretary.
The Texas Humane Society.
W aeo.
——-—-', President. | B. ATKINSON, Secretary.

 

UTAH.
Utah Humane Society.

Salt Lake City.
"""""‘, President. I J. W. GREENMAN, Secretary.

 

 




 

 

  

   
   
  
    
    
   
    
     
    
   
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   

77
VERMONT.

The Vermont Humane Society.
Bristol. I
H. B. WILLIAMS, President. I E. A. HASSELTINE, Secretary.

The Brattleborough Society for Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Brattteéerozzg/z.
DR. GEORGE F. GALE, President. I MRS. MARY C. \VARDER, Sec.

Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
[fut/amt.
T. L. DRURY, President. I T. L. DRURY, Secretary.

The Vermont Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Burlington.
'COL. HORACE J. BROOKS, Pres. I H. P. VVHITCOMB, Secretary.

Chester Humane Society.
Cﬂester.
rGEO. H. WALDRON, President. I A. N. CHANDLER, Secretary.

The Randolph Humane Society.
Randolph

JAMES A. FOWLER, President. I MRS. EMMA PETERS, Secretary.

 

VIRGINIA.
Richmond Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
618 East Main Street, Rte/Emmet.
DR. JUD. B. WOOD, President. I FRANK J. CRAIGIE, Secretary.
Norfolk Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
106 Main Street, [Vorfetk
L. CLAY KILBY, President. I W. B. BARTON, Secretary.
Woman’s Humane Society of Virginia.

Portsmeut/z.

MRS. A. P. GRICE, President. I MISS M. A. BINGLEY Secretary.

The Lynchburg Humane Society.
Lyne/z-ézerg.

.P. A. KRISE, President. I T. H. EARLY, Secretary.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




     
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
   
 
    
    
   
    

78.
WASHINGTON.

Tacoma Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

C/zczmeer of Commeree Ben/(ting, Tacoma.

C. P. CULVER, President. | H. K. MOORE, Secretary.

__’————

WEST VIRGINIA.

West Virginia Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

I/V/zeetz'ng.

JUDGE G. L. CRANMER, President. | MRS. JOHN S. TRIMBLE, Sec.

 

WISCONSIN.
The Wisconsin Humane Society.

49 5 ﬂ/[Z'Zwan/cee Street, Milwaukee.

JOHN F. BURKE, President. 1 MRS. J. M. PERELES, Secretary.

Fox River Valley District of The Wisconsin Humane Society.

61 ﬁferrz'tt Street, Os/zkes/z.

ROBERT MCMILLEN, President. I DR. F. J. \VILKIE,'Secretary.

Sheboygan Branch of The Wisconsin Humane Society.

S/zebeygan.

‘ V T. M. BLACKSTOCK, President. 1 WM. TALMADGE, Secretary.

The Wisconsin Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Green Bay.
[ WERDEN REYNOLDS, Secretary.

 

‘ 1 .1 . XAVIER MARTIN, President.
' ‘1 . Manitowoc Branch of The Wisconsin Huma
. x ‘ Manz‘te-wee.

I VVALTER VVITTIVIAN, Secretary.

ne Society.

’ ‘ f. EMIL BAENSCH, President.

‘ ‘ ‘Organized Committee of The Wisconsin Humane Society of
County.

Ozaukee

3 J Port Washington.
A. A. FARMER, President. | C. E. CHAMBERLIN, Secretary.
Janesville Humane Society.

1 ‘ 1‘; fanesm'tte.

1 1 w. G. PALMER, President. | sts M. CHITTENDEN, Sec.

 
   




 

   
   

  
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
     

 

 

 

94

LIVINGSTON COUNTY.

KILLIP, W. W ...................................... . ....... Geneseo
SHULTS, WARREN D .‘ ................................. Mount Morris
MADISON COUNTY.
BARLOVV, C. F ...................................... . ...... Canastota
BRYANT, HAROLD ........................................ Brookﬁeld
LIPPITT, F. B .............................................. Solsville
LOCKMAN, A ............................................... Cazenovia
PERRY, M.D., C. H ............................................ Oneida
TEALE, B. S ......................... . ......................... Oneida
W'ARREN, JOB A ........................................... De Ruyter
WEST, ADDISON J .......................................... Hamilton
MONROE COUNTY.
VVEITZEL, FREDERICK YV. .................. , ............. Rochester
MONTGOMERY COUNTY.
DE FOREST, DAVID ....................................... Amsterdam
EATON, ALF RED G ....... _ ................................ Amsterdam
FOX, BROVVNELL C ....................................... Canajoharie
KLINE, CHARLES ............ . ........................... Amsterdam
MERENESS, CHARLES \V .................................. Fort Plain
NEW YORK COUNTY.
BAUER, JULIUS ........................................ \Villiamsbridge
BAXTER, ANDREW J ...................................... City Island
DEMING, M.D., WILLIAM C ............................. West Chester
MCGRORY, DANIEL F. .................................. W'est Chester
NIAGARA COUNTY.
POMEROY, D. N ............................................ Lockport
ONEIDA COUNTY.
LEWIS, W. D ................................................... Utica
ROBERTS, M.D., DAVID HENRY ............................... Utica
ONONDAGA COUNTY.
OTIS, ISAAC C ...................................... - ........... Jordan
ONTARIO COUNTY.

MEAD, C. H ................................................... Geneva

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

S

Salmon, H. H.

Sanford, Hon. Horatio S.
Schaeler. Charles
Schieffelin, E. S.
Schieffelin, William Jay
Schloss, Alexander 1).
Schmadeke, John F.
Schmidt, Miss Alice M.
Schmidt, Mrs. John A.
Schmidt, William
Schmielan, C. F.
Scholer, Dr. Gustave
Schrader, George '
Schrader, Miss Emma
Schultz, Carl H.

Schurz, Miss Marianne
Schwenke, Henry

Scott, John R.

Scranton, Miss Amelia E.
Seabury, George J.
Seccomb, Miss Bertha H.
Seccomb, Mrs. E. A.
Sedgwick, Robert
Selvage, Mrs. Edwin
Seybel, D. E.

Shearman, Thomas G.
Sheldon, Mrs. Henry K.
Sheldon, James

Sheldon, Mrs. James
Shepard, Dr. A. W.
Sheridan, Thomas W.
Shine, Rev. E. A.
Shipman, Judge W. D.
Shivler, Charles S.
Shotwell, H. T.

Shults, John H.
Siegman, Alfred
Siegman, Edward
Siegman, Richard

Silver, Mrs. Charles A.
Simon, George A.
Skene, Dr. Alexander J. C.
Skene, Mrs. Alexander J. C.
Smart, Mrs. F. R. i

110

Smith, A. W.

Smith, Andrew W.

Smith, Crawford C.

Smith, Dr. Edward A.
Smith, Henry A.

Smith, Master Jewell Kellogg
Smith, Michael

Smith, William Alexander
Smith, Miss Josephine C.
Smith, Miss M. Adele
Smith, Mrs. A. W.
Smith, Mrs. Alexander
Smith, Mrs. Andrew W.
Smith, Mrs. William Alexander
Snow, E. G '
Spencer, A. H.

Spencer, F. G.

Spencer, Jr., Mrs. Lorillard
Sprigg, Mrs. W. O. ‘
Spring, Miss Anna R.
Spruck, Henry

Squire, Newton R.

Standish, Myles

Stanton, Edmund C.
Stanton, Mrs. John

Starr, Mrs. Daniel E.
Stedrnan, Miss Gertrude
Stein, A. M.

Stein, Conrad

Stern, Benjamin

Sterne, Miss Alice

Steurer, Miss Anna

Stewart, Hugh

Stewart, Thomas J.

Stewart, William Rinelander
Stickney, Mrs. Joseph

Still, John A.

Stillman, Thomas E.

Stokes, Anson Phelps

Stone, Edwin

Story, J. T.

Strauss, Mrs. Jacob

Strauss, Samuel

Stricker, Henry

Strong, Dr. B. G.

Struthers, Miss Armitage

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The following summary will be found interesting as showing the work acco
societies throughout the United States and Canada. Because ﬁgures are omitted,

 

 

 

 

STATISTICS FOR YEAR ENDING DECEMBER 31, 1896.

lished. In many instances reports were not received, and in other

L///,///

LOCATION.

/

ALABAMA.
Mobile
Birmingham . . .

ARKANSAS.

Little Rock . . . .

(LUJFORNML
San Francisco .

  

Los Angeles .........
San Jose. . . . .....

San Diego. . . .
Sacramento. . . .

Oakland ............
Redlands ............
Santa Barbara .......

COLORADO.

Denver . ....... .. .
Colorado Springs .....

CONNECTHXrL
Hartford. . . ...

o

con-or

   

 

  

NAME OF SOCIETY.

MobileS.P.C.A ...... ............

s the ﬁgures we

Birmingham Humane Society. . . .. . . . . . . .. . . . . . ..

Humane Society of Little Rock, Ark. . . . . . ,. . . . ......

TheSanFranciscoS. P. C. A*

The Los Angeles S. P. C. A.............
Santa Clara County S. I’. C. A. ..... . ................
San Diego Humane Society .........................
The Sacramento County Humane Society. .
Oakland S. I). C. A .................... . . . . ........
S. P. C. A. Of San Bernardino County, Cal ............
Santa Barbara Humane Society. . . .. .....

Colorado Humane Society. . . .. . . . . . . . . . .
El Paso County Branch Colorado Humane Society. . . . . .

Connecticut Humane Society. . . . . . . . . . .

 

ooooooo ...-

ooooooo ‘

I.ﬁ......t

        
       

'sunoo
9111 u; painoasoad saseg

//—//

mplished

re not a

11101;

'JOQBI
papuadsns Anna;
—Odw91 slewiue palqe

SICI

33

2123
15

' (f3

2I

282

191110 pun

it does not follow

‘smwrue
‘sarnux

‘SQSJOH

parquetp

Ulnq‘

931121

519119

AJQAOOOJISBCI

I...

II

447

'paAonsap

during the year 1896 by

'paAonsap Apueumq
‘AJOAOOOJ is

Joq.pQIQBSICI

12d panesip
Jo ssaptuoq ‘swwrue news

 

 

—nqum 11;
191110 pun sas

swans 1110.1;
paAOtuaJ SIB

'saoum
wiue 331m

 

kindred
that no work was accom-
vailable or no records were kept.

'pamb‘psaAur
pue peAraoaj siuierdwog

 

IZO

 

 

s-




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

128

by persons in attendance. The press then lent its powerful aid ; the
lecture was published in whole or in part in all the great cities of
the country ; public sentiment in favor of Mr. Bergh’s movement
was quickly aroused, and on April IO, I866, “The American
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals” was incorpo-
rated by the Legislature of the State of New York. Among the
original charter members of the Society were many of the most
eminent citizens of the City and State of New York.

On the 19th of April, in the same year, Mr. Bergh secured the
passage by the Legislature of New York of the ﬁrst law ever
enacted in this country for the protection of animals. It provided
that “every person who shall, by his act or neglect, maliciously
kill, maim, wound, injure, torture, or cruelly beat any horse, mule,
cow, cattle, sheep, or other animal, belonging to himself or another,
shall, upon conviction, be adjudged guilty of a misdemeanor.”

On the 22d of April a meeting was held in Clinton Hall for the
purpose of effecting a permanent organization, and at that meet-
ing the first society for the protection of animals in this country
came into active existence. The purpose of the association, as set
forth in its constitution, was “to provide effective means for the
prevention of cruelty to animals throughout the United States, to
enforce all laws which then were or might thereafter be enacted
for the protection of animals, and to secure, by lawful means, the
arrest and conviction of all persons found violating such laws.”
As a matter of fact, the only law of that kind then to be found on
the statute books of the States of the Union was that which had
been passed by the Legislature of New York nine days after the
incorporation of the Society. Within twelve months, however,
another “act for the more effectual prevention of cruelty to ani-
mals ” was passed by the Legislature of the same State; and from
time to time additions have been made to it, so that there is now
hardly a phase of cruelty which the Society has not the legal
power to prevent within the boundaries of the State of New York.
The legal deﬁnition of the word “animal” now includes every
living creature except members of the human race, and the words
“torture ” and “cruelty” include every act, omission, or neglect
whereby unjustiﬁable physical pain, suffering, or death is caused
or permitted.

 




