I
O
I

V
n1

O

H

D
W}
N

O
J
l
H
H
H
S
.d

,D
V.

l
v

I

\VOLUP

 

 

VIE L1H

N0 11

FOUR ENCE

«by

OVEMBER 1958

 

l

\

, 1-
‘

Incorporating QThe

nged Messenger’

rld

W

i

1

31

We

 




 

November 1958

THE ANIMAL WORLD " 129

BULLFIGHTING

Mr Laurence Chappell, an RSPCA supporter
living at Huby, near Leeds, writes:

Although I have been in Spain several times I
had not seen a bullﬁght. In order to establish a
ﬁrsthand knowledge I went to one during a recent
visit to Majorca.

I do not think I could be considered squeamv
ish, but I would condemn in the strongest pos’
sible terms the depravity of the revolting
exhibition I witnessed under the guise of a
‘magniﬁcent spectacle’.

I cannot write of the ﬁner points of bull—
ﬁghting, ‘The Art’, as it is termed, nor would I
wish to.

Sufﬁce it to say that I witnessed half blindv
folded horses attacked by the bull in the six
ﬁghts I saw, encouraged and goaded to do so as
part of the act by the toreros. The horse is
spurred to a glowing red on the offside by the
picador and whipped into position for attack by
a man with a stick who stays uncommonly near
the barricade ready to escape. Although the poor
horse wears a quilted caparazon on the near side
only, he still suffers terribly and one was tossed.

Heavily barbed darts are repeatedly used to
weaken the bull, to tear and rip his ﬂesh. The
matador’s sword has failed to kill, although all
3 ft. 6 in. of it has been driven in and left in the
bull, often shot out high in the air by the bull’s
fenzied exertions. Blood cascades from his
mouth and nostrils due to his lungs having been
pierced. Utterly exhausted, bewildered and with
all hope abandoned, his noble head lolling from
side to side as the toreros torment him, his eyes
begging to be killed—he sinks to the ground: a
pathetic sight. Not content, the toreros goad him
to rise, the matador with his sword jabs further
encouragement but to no avail.

Having miserably blundered with the sword,
the matador now chooses the desabellar——a long—
handled type of sword with a crosspiece a few
inches from the point, but after several attempts
fails to ﬁnd the Vital spot. And now, a torero
pounces upon the helpless animal and with the
fury of a madman proceeds to stab it to death
with a knife.

Let us examine a few facts. The bull is trained
to charge and attack the cape and the horsee—NOT
the man. On the rare occasions when a man is
injured it is just so much bad luck.

In sports of purely human combat the man can
always retire should he wish—the animal cannot.
The bull NEVER wins—he is always killed. Yet the
animal creatures look to us, as we look to God——
and in their natural state can survive quite well
without us, yet we fail to manage without them.
A sorry thought to ponder over!

I was told our stag hunting is cruel. I am yet to
be convinced that two wrongs make a right.
Hunting the noble stag is brutal and inhuman.

Intelligence runs in grooves and argument and
behaviour are often conditioned by expedient.

Bullﬁghting is not for the sensitive with reﬁned
feelings. It is not for the thinker.

It is a ritual of diabolical cruelty designed for
entertainment and caters for the lowest appeal in
human nature—the sadistic, the depraved and
the debased.

Some pretend to enjoy it because they consider
it the ‘done thing’, nevertheless they cheer and
clap their hands sore with the rest. English
people too!

It is a sad reﬂection that human beings can
ﬁnd their pleasures in the torture and suffering of
animals.

And yet call themselves Christians!

 

BONFIRE NIGHT

Animals must not be allowed to suffer as the re’
sult of anyone’s pursuit of pleasure. It is well to
remember this as bonﬁre night approaches, for
ﬁreworks undoubtedly cause distress to animals.

The RSPCA points out that the Protection of
Animals Act, 1911, makes it an offence to terrify
an animal.

When ﬁreworks are being let off, domestic
pets should be kept indoors, preferably in a room
with someone to whom they are used, and in
whom they have conﬁdence.

Where animals .are kept in styes, byres and
similar places, fastenings of doors should be
secured so that a frightened animal cannot run
amok. It is heartless to explode ﬁreworks near
farm animals.

In London, the RSPCA Emergency Staff is on
duty all night (on November 5th, as at all times),
and provides a ﬁrst’aid emergency service for all
animals within a tenvmile radius of Piccadilly
Circus. The service operates from RSPCA
Headquarters.

Sedatives are useful for highly strung animals
and the advice of a veterinary surgeon should be
sought.

If an animal should be injured the Police will
direct any inquirer to the nearest veterinary
surgeon or animal clinic.

Lastly, when the bonﬁre is over, see that any
ﬁre is extinguished in the embers. Otherwise,
animals may receive burns.

 

 




 

 

  ANIMALTHEWORLD

[HE OFFICIAL MAGAZINE OF THE RSPCA

Vol LIII No I I New Series

NOVEMBER I 958

PRICE FOURPENCE

6s. per annum. Post Paid

MRS WALLIS POWER

It is difficult for any friend of EileenWallis Power
to think of her in a time that is past. Her splendid
vitality, her wide interests touching life at so
many points, her ever ready and ever active kinda
liness, her instant—and effective—response to a
call for help on behalf of anysufferingcreature,
make up a personality which we feel must be for
ever with us. It is too soon to attempt to assess
the fine qualities of her work or the extent of the
loss that her passing will mean to the Society and
to her friends everywhere.

Her love for all animals was beyond measure
deep and sincere, a part of her very self. Her time,
energy, money were poured out without limit or
stint when any kind of cruelty or injustice to
helpless creatures which she could do anything
to alleviate came within her ken. Longgbefore, her
association with the RSPCA she worked for the
abolition of the decrepit horse traffic between
England and France; and while living in the south
of France, she was largely instrumental in perv
suading the authorities to ban bull—ﬁghting
(though since then, alas, it has been reintro—
duced). Her work for our Society has been un—
ceasing. . A member of Council since 1934,
Deputy Vice—Chairman in 1946, Vice’Chairman
since 1952 and Acting Chairman from January to
June 1958—and all the time one of the stalWarts
in her own county—she has been among us as
‘one who serveth’, in whatever capacity her ser’
vice could best be given.

Instances of self—ignoring toil crowd in on one’s
memory. Witness her tireless chase in 1956,
through nights and days, from one county to
another, of the infamous breakersof the law
against cock—fighting—and her modest depreciv
ation of her work and generous handing—on of
credit at its triumphant conclusion! Her recent
unsparing efforts in support of the Society’s
campaign against the traffic in live cattle between

this and other co'untries will not soon be for— .

gotten, her jOurne'yings to ports to see conditions
for herself, her interviews with authorities and
her forthright speaking on the matter up and
down the country.

She was singularly fearless. No revilings in

speech or in print, of which she had a large share,
nor threats—for exploiters of animals with
proﬁts in danger stop at nothing (more than
once her life was threatened )—could shake for a
moment her purposes. And more diﬂicult,
perhaps, than her bland disregard of enemies
was, to a nature so genial as hers, her equally
staunch stand when, in Council or committees
and among friends, she deemed a principle to be
at stake and plain speaking to be necessary. But
magnanimity was her element and a ‘difference’
was banished as soon as resolved.

Of Mrs Power’s work in other ﬁelds than ours,
as a Justice of the Peace, as Mayor of Christ»
church, County Councillor, Governor of schools,
hospitals and homes for the aged in her home
county of Hampshire, others have spoken and
written. We remember, with deep gratitude and
affection, her great love and unﬂagging work
for animals. She had a beautiful home by the
sea, with a stretch of lovely woodland (in which
lay buried, in addition to her own departed
animal friends, a charger of the Crimean War),
gay ﬂower—beds and green lawns, everything, in
short, which would have lured a lesser person to
a lazy, luxurious existence; yet it would probably
be true to say that seldom has anyone given her—
self more work for the benefit of others and less
leisure for herself. Her bounty had, indeed,

‘no winter in’t; an autumn ’twas
That grew the more by reaping.’

And in the autumn, on—how ﬁttinglyl—the
Feast of St Francis of Assisi, she was taken from
us in the way she desired and strove after
for the passing of every living creature, swiftly,
painlessly, without fear. It was thus that within
twenty'four hours, her two dogs—one a little-
waif of the blitz—frantic and inconsolable at her
death, were put mercifully to sleep.

‘0 true, brave heart, God bless thee,
wheresoe’er
In His wide universe thou art today.’

May we be enabled to carry on here, in somev
thing of her spirit, the great work she pursued
with such selﬂess devotion.

L. B.

 




 

 

FLAG DAY
GOODS

PLASTIC BADGES

LIST 0N APPLICATION

THE UNIVERSAL BUTTON CO. LTD.

1-9 Birkbeck Street, Bethnal Green, LONDON, E.2

Telephone: BIShopsgate 5750 Telegrams: ‘Unibutco Edo’

 

 

 

FORTHCOMING EVENTS
Saturday, November 8

Four One-Act Plays, presented at St Albans Hall, Bristol 6,
at 7 p.m. by Miss Myfanwy James, in aid of RSPCA funds.

Tickets: Numbered and reserved, 45; Unreserved, 25. 6d.,
obtainable from—-

Miss Myfanwy James, I3 Mortimer Road, Clifton, Bristol 8,
or the Hon Secretary, RSPCA, 40 Broad Street, Bristol I

   

‘56-:

The dog family at the home of Mr ]. Owen, Chairman,
Burgess Hill Auxiliary

RSPCA CHRISTMAS MARKET
AND FILM SHOW

SEYMOUR HALL, LONDON, WI

November l9 and 20, I958

I2 noon to 8 p.m.
Admission ls. each day

Tickets available from:
Appeals Department, RSPCA,
l05 Jermyn Street, London, SWI

Gifts for sale and donations are welcomed at the same address

 

 

 

 

TEMPLE COX CAPTIVE
BOLT SLAUGHTERING
GUNS

Specially recommended and used by the RSPCA

THREE MODELS—ALL SILENT IN
ACTION

‘UNIVERSAL’ for all animals
‘SMALLS’ for all small animals
‘MARK 6’ for all animals. Designed for heavy

use in large Abattoirs and Freezing Works

TEMPLE COX DEVELOPMENT CO. LTD
HIGH STREET, BROMLEY, KENT

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

  
  
 

 

........................
..............................

. \\
SIMPLE.
  SAIL.

; g suns awn X17

CAPTIVE BOLT PISTOL
FOR ALL ANIMALS

‘5

ACCLES AND SHELVOKE LTD ‘ BIRMINGHAM ' 6 ' ENGLASE:

    
  

 




 

November 1958

TRAPS CAUGHT CATS

After complaints had been made that cats limped
home covered in blood, two gin traps were
handed to the police, Leighton Buzzard MagiSv
trates were told.

At the end of the case the Chairman Said the
Bench viewed the case ‘almost with horror’ that a
man could treat animals in such a fashion.

The Bench ﬁned the defendant £4 for causing
unnecessary suffering to cats; £1 for not inspect;
ing traps at reasonable intervals, and £1 for using

spring traps in places other than rabbit holes

or warrens. He was also ordered to pay £3 35.
costs.

Prosecuting for the RSPCA a solicitor said
that as a foreigner the defendant had a different
standard for treating animals than prevailed in
this country.

A police constable produced two traps in
court, and said they had been taken up from land
which was rented by the defendant. He had seen
one of the cats concerned, and on its foot a
serrated mark made by the teeth of a gin trap, or
something similar, could quite clearly be seen.
The defendant had admitted that the traps were
his, and said he put one near a hedge, and one
near a tree. He had not visited them every day,
because owing to the nature of his work he could
not. .

A housewife who gave evidence told the court
that her cat was missing for a day. Late at night
it returned home, dragging one of its back paws,
which was badly swollen; it did not recover, and
was destroyed.

The defendant wrote to the court stating that
he did not know he had committed any offences,
and wished to express his regret to the court. He
gave an assurance that it would not happen again.
(B3065; Inspector Cooper.)

 

CAT ‘DYING OF STARVATION’

Senior Inspector Marshall described the condiv
tion in which he found a cat as ‘deplorable’
when he gave evidence at Grantham Court against
a boilerman, who pleaded not guilty to causing
the animal unnecessary suffering.

The solicitor prosecuting for the RSPCA said
Senior Inspector Marshall saw the cat during a
very cold spell, and found it both emaciated and
very obviously ill. It was, he said, ‘just skin and
bone’, and the Senior Inspector took it to a
veterinary surgeon, who mercifully put it to sleep.
It was 12 to 13 years old and it was clear that it
had had no attention for either its illness or on
account of its age.

The owner had made a statement saying he had
got some castor oil and some tablets, and had
intended taking it to the vet. the next week
when he was on an early turn.

THE ANIMAL WORLD 125

A veterinary surgeon said the cat was suffering .
from cat ’ﬂu and had also been dying of starva—
tion for a considerable period. It had been
suffering greatly for some days.

The defendant said he had no idea the cat was
suffering so much. It was put out when he went
to work in the mornings, but food was also put
out both in the mornings and evenings. He had
no intention of being cruel as he had had the cat
for a number of years. ,

He was ﬁned £2, with three guineas costs.

03.3110.)

 

SWAN SHOT IN EYE

A mute swan is swimming on a Walsall canal
with one eye missing and an airagun pellet lodged
in its skull—injuries inﬂicted by two young men,

' one seventeen, the other nineteen. .

At Walsall Magistrates’ Court they were each
ﬁned £7 103. and ordered to share costs totalling
£14 173., when they were found guilty of causing
unnecessary suffering to the swan by shooting it.
For using an air riﬂe without holding a gun
licence both defendants were ﬁned a further 103.

Fed by Workmen
The case for the RSPCA was that the swan had

made its home on the canal at the rear of a foun»
dry, and grew so tame that it would eat out of
the hands of workpeople.

A worker at the foundry heard the sound of
ﬁve or six pellets being discharged from an air
riﬂe. He saw the two defendants; one was kneeL
ing down taking aim at the swan. When he
shouted to the youths they went away. The swan
had an eye wound which was bleeding.

A veterinary surgeon said the bird’s right eye
was ruptured and had to be removed. An X—ray
revealed that a second pellet was lodged in the
skull at the top of the beak, but this could not be
removed without serious risk to the swan. The
bird must have undergone acute suffering.

‘Ricochet’

Both defendants denied on oath that they had
deliberately ﬁred at the swan. One suggested that
a pellet might have been deﬂected off a wall and
struck the bird.

Telling both youths they could have been sent
to prison for the offence, the Chairman said they
had wilfully and wantonly committed a shocking
and cruel act.

At the end of the case the one who owned the
air riﬂe voluntarily surrendered it to the police.

\ (13.3251.)

 

BEWARE! Overleaf are harrowing pictures of ill-treated ,
animals

 

 




November1958 THE ANIMAL WORLD

 

 

 

13 1
COLLECTIONS R dd h £ 5. d.
(We give wherever possible the place at which the house—to— e 1tc ' 51 O 10
house collection was made and the name of the organizer or MESZZegOWbraY’ Mrs A Mackley (aux 57 O 10
organizers
House—to—House Lgaiscingham, Mrs]. A Kelley (aux hon sec); 18 1% 8
£ 5. Cl. Portscath & Ger a
Bassus green 81 Clay End, Miss R. Burdock aux ho: sec).. r ns, Mrs Dickson (asst 43 6 O
aux on 86C) 2 O O Gainsborou h, Mrs D. M
Llandrindod Wells, Mrs Walsh (aux hon sec) 15 2 5 Oakham, Mgrs Ball (aux honFsOEE)(br.1.1.0n 86C) 7,; 1(8) 8
Newport (10W), Mrs R036 and Mrs 165137 Nottingham and Notts Branch (County Area) 175 11 8
(branch hon 39C) ~ 38 10 0 Birchington, Miss E Denning (aux hon sec) 73 O O
Bembridge, Mrs Paley Battersea (aux hon sec) 21 12 10 Wymondham, Mrs H Clarke (aux hon sec) 12 10 1
Driﬂield, Mrs Blakeston (aux hon sec) .. 41 0 3 Nottingham City, Mr Harry White (Council
Minehead, Miss P M Archer (aux hon sec) 81 6 2 Member and br hon sec) 531 16 10
New Mills, MrJ. Ashworth (aux hon sec).. 78 4 7 Freshwater, Isle of Wight, Mrs Williams and
Kent, Ashford and District 88 16 5 Miss Corbett (aux co hon secs). 46 2, 1
Radcliffe, Miss M R. Stevenson (aux hon sec) 38 5 1’ Shalﬂeet and Yarmouth, Isle of Wight, Mrs
Quarndon, Mrs R A Loten (br hon sec)“ 10 12 7 Hawkesworth (aux hon sec) . 47 17 2
Havant, Mr and Mrs Powell (aux hon secs) 33 O O CastleDonington, MrsW. Lewis (auxhon sec) 14 12 O
Coundon, Mrs Oliver“ 9 10 10 Lancaster City, Mrs M. Bailey (div hon sec) 135 18 4
Kirkham, Mrs Wallbank (aux hon sec) 38 17 5 Oxhey, Mrs M M Muckelt (aux hon sec)... 73 9 3
Rhyl, Mrs Ernest R. Black (br hon sec) 115 19 4
FLAG DAYS Llandudno, Miss M Unwin (br hon mysec) 330 O 0
£ 5, d. Northampton ,, 101 O O
Stroud, Mr S. Hill (br chairman) (Amendmt.) 160 O O
Dunster, Miss C. S. Obbard (aux hon sec) 20 O 6 West Caernarvonshire
St Mawes, Mr V. Heath (aux hon sec) .. 25 15 0 District results: £ 3, d
Gt Gonerby, Mrs T. J. Norton (aux hon sec) 9 12 3 Abersoch, Miss Sandys—Wunsch (aux co 3
Aberkenﬁg, Mrs D. M. Raikes (aux hon sec) 28 9 8 hon sec) 75 8 6'
Liskeard, Mrs E. L. Hoar (aux hon sec) 34 6 7 Llanfairfechan, Mrs Godwin (aux hon sec) 11 8 3
Wednesbury and Darlaston, MrsF. Haywood Beddgelert, Mrs Hughes .. 2 15 0
(br hon sec) 89 9 8 Pwllheli, Mrs Shaw (aux hon sec). 36 O 6
Truro, Mrs M. Merriﬁeld (aux hon sec). 75 15 O Llanbedrog, Miss Francis (aux hon sec) 10 17 3
Spenborough, Miss M. S. Dyson (aux hon sec) 66 15 O Aberdaron, Mrs Dodd (aux hon sec) 8 O 0
Hastings, Mrs E. Sletcher (br hon sec) . 187 13 1% Portmadoc, Mrs G. Jones (aux hon sec) 11 7 O
Camborne, Mrs R. Dunn (aux hon sec) 45 18 6 Penmaenmawr, Mrs Roberts (aux hon sec) 22 13 0
Kings Lynn, Mrs Robson (aux hon sec) . 96 10 1 Penygroes, Mrs E. Jones (aux hon sec) 6 1 O
Swaffham, Mrs Q. M. Fennell (aux hon sec) 24 17 O Rhiw, Miss E. Keating (aux hon sec) 8 10 O
Corby (Lincs), Capt S. E. Appleby (aux Caernarvon, Miss E. Jones (aux hon sec) 3O 17 O
hon sec) . 12 O O
Llanwrst, Mrs Moulsdale (aux hon sec) 9 3 6 £223 17 6
Withernsea, Miss K. Gibson (aux hon sec)... 21 2 6 ____~__
Kinver and Kingﬁwinford, Mr and Mrs]. P. 5
Parker (br co on secs) .. 9 11 O ’
Stolurbridge, Mr and Mrs]. E. Parker (br co 3 7 District results‘ Merloneth BranCh £ 5 d
on secs) .. 11 3 . 1 ' '
Pontfadog, Mrs Baynes and Mrs May (co Arﬁgolgéegf an V1scountess Chetwynd (aux 5 13 7
aux 11011 secs) 3 16 O Barmouth, MrsG. M. Mather brh
llkley, Mr A. B. Swaine (br chairman) .. 113 18 3 Blaenau Festiniog Mrs G (rhorgigssegux 45 O 3
Pudsey, Mrs K. M. Mitchell (aux hon sec)” 86 14 1 hon sec) ’ 4 9 0
13115101 Mr C Croxton Smith (br hon sec) Bontddu, Miss Eritchett (aux hon sec) 2 18 4
and Mrs D. Phillips (assistant sec) .. 720 O O Bala, Mrs Norie (aux hon sec) 15 13 9
Watford, Mrs H. J. Jones (aux hon sec) 80 9 6 Corwen Mrs M Batty (aux hon sec) . 3 5 O
Kettering and District, Miss R. Pankhurst Dolgelly, Mrs M Thomas (aux hon sec) 10 1 4
(aux 11011 86C) ' 194 4 5 Duﬂryn, Col W. Pennant . 2 16 8
Lytham, Miss D. Lord (aux hon sec) . 77 O 8 Fairbourne Mr Jepson 3 1 7
Welshpool, MrsM. K. Cookson (aux hon sec) 51 12 3 Gwyddelwern Miss G Roberts 1 8 7
Gt Yarmouth and Gorleston on Sea, Miss M. Harlech Mrs L Lloyd (aux hon sec). 35 6 5
Castle (br sec) 652 3 10% Llanaber, Miss W. Ragge (aux hon sec) 11 5 3
31117311113111, M18 Q M 1361111911 (aux hon sec) 24 17 O Llan Festiniog, Miss B. Williams (aux hon sec) 1 8 3
R053 011 Wye M155M;C Moore (auxhon sec) 52 8 4 Llwyngwril, Mrs L. CharlesJones (auxhon sec) 2 8 11
Shotton, Mr E. V. Crisp (aux hon sec) .. 43 8 6 Maentwrog, Miss D. Other (aux hon sec) 3 9 8
SPAIllirhihof arhdn Egghmgton, Mrs B' 27 O 5 Tal—y—Bont, Miss Froggatt (aux hon sec) 5 5 1
aux o .. '
Lincoln City, Miss C May Harrison (aux Towyn, MISS V. Nanney Wynn 4 6 4
hon sec) 262 4 8 £157 18 O
Merthyr Tydﬁl, Miss G. Lewis (br hon sec)::. 122 14 8 __
Barrow—in Furness, Mr]. A. Tate (aux hon sec) 192 3 I;
Stokesley, Mrs M. Boyd 18 . .
South Bank, Mrs N. C. Harrison . . 20 15 3 DoncaSter and DESErIZCt BranCh
Guisborough, Mrs D. Jefferies (aux hon sec) 55 O 0 (Thorne DIVISIODJ
Sturminster Newton, Dr Barﬁeld (aux hon sec) 75 O 0 District results £ 3' d~
Wimborne, Mrs Solomon (aux hon sec) .. 36 16 2 Thorne, Mrs J S. Taylor (div CO 11011 56C)
Blandford, Miss M. Ainsworth (aux hon sec) 30 O O and Committee 53 3 4%

 

 

 

 




 

November 1958‘

Reprinted from ‘The Quarterly Review’ by kind

permission of the Editor

CRUELTY TO ANIMALS
By DR R. F. RATTRAY
I

In the vastly long and extensive history of life,
animals have suffered according to the law of the
jungle. The advent of man’s greater powers re,
sulted in the suffering of more of his victims.

Among all the religions of the ancient world,
Egyptian religion stood out by its freedom from
animal sacriﬁce. Animal sacriﬁce was the great
disgrace of Judaism. Professor Burkitt asked,
‘What modern institution resembles most the
Temple in Jerusalem?’ and answered, ‘The
slaughterhouse.’ Nevertheless, the ﬁrst Isaiah,
in the eighth century BC, had a wonderful Vision
of all beings living in peaceful coexistence: ‘They
shall not hurt or destroy in all my holy mountain,
saith Yahweh.’ Jewish law enacted ‘Muzzle not
the ox that treadeth out the corn,’ but also a
ritual method of slaughter which is cruel. The
Book of Proverbs (which derived from Egyptian
proverbial literature) said that a righteous man
regards the life of his beast. .

In India developed the doctrine of reincarna—
tion. This has led to the merciful treatment of
countless millions of animals, but also to the
suffering of millions of animals because of the
absolute prohibition of the killing of animals,
resulting in animals enduring the pains of incurv
able disease, age, and overpopulation.

The initiation of four of the great world move
ments in humanitarianism has been dated to the
sixth century Bc: in India, Jainism and Buddhism;
in Persia, Zoroastrianism; in Greece, Pytha—
goreanism.

The Jains put forward the doctrine of ahimsa:
‘One may not kill or ill use or insult or torment
or persecute any kind of living thing.’ The Jains
forbid animal sacriﬁce, the eating of meat, and
hunting. They tend sick animals. To save minute
organisms they strain their drink and screen
lamps.

One of the fundamental teachings of the Buddha
was ‘Do not kill.’ He also preached ahimsa:
‘Whoso strives only for his own happiness and
in so doing hurts or kills any living creatures,
which also seek happiness, shall not ﬁnd happi—
ness.’ Again, countless animals have beneﬁted
from this, but again also the suffering of millions
of animals has resulted, from the prohibition of
killing animals, in the pains of incurable disease,
age, and overpopulation.

Zoroaster inculcated kindness to animals. The
souls of the kine complained to Ahura Mazda of
the cruel wrongs they suffered under brutal men.

THE ANIMAL WORLD 123

So the useful animals, especially cattle and dogs,
are to be treated kindly, well fed and cared for.
Cruelty and neglect are grave sins; wanton killing
of cattle—including animal sacriﬁces—is a crime:
offerings of haoma (the sacred drink) are to be
made instead of animals.

Lactantius wrote: ‘Pythagoras deﬁned God
thus: The spirit permeating the universe from
whom all animals that are born take their life}
All living things are children of God. Apuleius
recorded the tradition that Pythagoras bought
ﬁsh alive in order to have the pleasure of returnv
ing them to their element.

In the third century BC in India the Emperor
Asoka ruled over two—thirds of the peninsula. He
was converted to Buddhism. At this time Budd—
hism was notable for humanitarian ethics, far in
advance of the Vedic sacriﬁcial system which it
superseded. Asoka caused to be engraved on
rocks and pillars throughout his empire edicts in
the vernacular enjoining respect for animal life.
He made arrangements for the medical treatment
of sick animals.

Among the Jews the Essenes were one of the
ascetic movements. It would seem that they
originated in Jerusalem. Some of them lived a
cenobitic life on the shores of the Dead Sea in the
last centuries BC and the early centuries AD. There
were about four thousand of them. They were
strict vegetarians, the slaughter of animals being
forbidden (they sent instead of animals sacrificial
offerings of money to the Temple).

Among the Romans Ovid recorded that Pythav
goras spoke as follows:

A God impels me to speak and I will obey: For—
bear, mortals, to pollute your bodies with animal
food: it is abominable. There is corn, there are
apples, grapes, herbs, milk, honey. It is the cruel
animals that eat flesh: the horse, the sheep and
cattle live on grass. What a crime it is for entrails
to be buried in entrails, for one ravening body to
grow fat on carcasses, for one living creature to
exist through the death of other living creatures!
Why does the ox deserve this, an animal without
guile and deceit, innocent, harmless, born to endure
labour? The man is ungrateful who could, just after
taking 01f the weight of the plough, slaughter the
tiller of his ﬁeld; who could strike with the axe that
neck worn by labour. And it is not enough that such
wickedness should be committed by men: they have
imputed to the Gods themselves this abomination:
they believe that deity can rejoice in the slaughter
of animals. A victim, adorned with garlands and
gold, is placed on the altar and it hears one praying
and sees the corn which is placed between its horns;
and, felled, it stains with its blood the knives seen
before by it. Away with your nets and traps and
snares and treacherous contrivances, and do not
conceal the barbed hooks in the deceitful bait! How
greatly he disgraces himself who can feed upon the

 

 




November 1958

 

CHIN UP!

 

Photos by courtesy of the Chief Constable of Lancashire

Chief Inspector P. Cameron was shocked when he visited a
house and saw the bodily condition of this eight months old
Boxer bitch. It was a walking skeleton! When the Chief
Inspector offered the dog a piece of bread it snatched it out
of his hand and devoured it ravenously.

For failing to give the dog proper care and attention a
man was brought before Darwen Magistrates Court by the
RSPCA and was ﬁned £l and ordered to pay £l0 l4s. 8d.
costs.

The second picture shows the improved condition of the
dog after only a short time in the care of the RSPCA. it has
now been placed in a good home. (8.2876)

Photo by courtesy of the Chief Constable, Bedfordshire Constabulary

 

THE ANIMAL WORLD 12?

CAT TIED IN SACK
AND HIT WITH HAMMER

A pensioner was asked by his aged mother—in—
law to get rid of her cat for her. He tied it up in a
sack, struck it with a heavy hammer, and then,
thinking it was dead, gave it to another‘man to
dispose of. ‘ ’ ‘

The other man threw the sack with the cat into
a ﬁeld, where it lay for four days before a small
boy at play noticed it and saw something moving
inside it. i

This story was told at Methwold Magistrates’
Court when the pensioner was ﬁned £5 for
cruelty to the animal. He was also ordered to pay
£2 23. costs. .

A solicitor prosecuting for the RSPCA told
the magistrates that the case was a simple one,
but probably one of the ‘most nauseating’ that
they had been ‘unfortunate enough to hear’.

He said that when Inspector M. T. Ellis exam—
ined the cat he found a large bump on its head
and also a wound with congealed blood in it.

The cat, he said, had since recovered but it
did not need much imagination to realize that it
must have suffered considerably from the blow
on the head and from being tied up in the sack
for five days. '

In court the defendant said he realized what he
had done was an act of cruelty. He had nothing
more to say. (B.3418.)

 

DUCKS DEAD lN FROZEN MUD

An inspector visiting an allotment kept by a chimney sweep
found ducks in the conditions illustrated below. Seven were
huddled together, covered in mud and two were found dead
in a corner covered with frozen mud. .

There was a saucepan half-filled with water but no signs
of food. The floor was two to three inches deep in slime.
There was no ventilation or light and the birds had diff-
culty in standing up owing to the conditions of the floor.

Prosecuted by the RSPCA for neglecting the ducks the
owner was ﬁned £25 with £4 45. costs.

The defendant has disposed of the ducks. (Case No. 8.828
heard at Bedford, S/lns. Dowling.)

 




 

ROYAL SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS
Headquarters: 105 Jermyn Street, London, S.W.1

Founded 1824

P A T R O N S
HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN

HER MAJESTY QUEEN ELIZABETH, THE QUEEN MOTHER
HER ROYAL HIGHNESS PRINCESS ALICE COUNTESS OF ATHLONE
HER ROYAL HIGHNESS PRINCESS ARTHUR OF CONNAUGHT

PRESIDENT

SIR MALCOLM SARGENT, HON LLD, D MUS, FRCM, FRSA

THE EARL OF SHAFTESBURY, KP, PC

AGIUS, THE REV DOM AMBROSE, 088, MA

AILWYN, THE RT HON LORD
*ALLIEERT, MRS
*ALSOP, ALDERMAN A. J., FRCA, FCIS, JP

*EELL, G. R., ESQ

BERTIE OF THAME, THE RT HON THE VISCOUNTESS
BRANSOM, MISS L. G., FRSA

EYWATER, H. E., ESQ, MRCVS

COLLINSON, MISS N. M.

COPE, MRS JOHN

COTTERELL, LT-COL J. M. v., OBE

DORCHESTER, LT-COL THE RT HON LORD, OBE, JP
. *DOWDELL, MRS M. R.
ESTCOURT-OSWALD, MISS AGNES, ME (LOND), DPH

(CANTAB), DOMS

 

VICE-PRESIDENTS
LT-COL SIR THOMAS MOORE, BART, CBE, MP

 

THE COUNCIL

Chairman: LT-COL J. C. LOCKWOOD, JP, TD

*EVANS, MRS DAVID, BA
GALWAY, THE DOWAGER VISCOUNTESS
GARDNER, HON JULIET
HOBHOUSE, J. 3., ESQ
HOWELL, BASIL P., ESQ, MBE

*HUNTER, MISS
LEE, MRS E. M.
LLEWELLYN, THE REV CANON LEONARD, L TH
LONGMAN, MRS w.
MACNAGHTEN, A. L, ESQ, BA

*MCPI—IAIL, MRS ALISON LETITIA, MB, CH B
MOORE, LT—COL SIR THOMAS, BART, CBE, MP

*Denotes Branch Representative

 

 

ANTHONY GREENWOOD, ESQ, MP

POULETT. THE RT HON THE EARL
*PRITCHARD, MRS D.
*RATTRAY, R. F., ESQ, MA, PH D
*RIECK, H. H., ESQ
.SIELY, w. A., ESQ, MA, JP
SNELL, ALDERMAN THE REV PREBENDARY L. J. B.
j) MBE, TD, HON CF (HEREFORD)
*TAIT, MRS, MA
*WALPORD, MRS DESBOROUGH
WARDS, COLONEL, GT, CMG, OBE
*WHITE, HARRY, ESQ, FCA
WILLERT, SIR ARTHUR, KBE
*WINCHESTER, F. J., ESQ, FCIS, FSS
WOOLLEY, SIR CHARLES, GBE ,KCMG, CMG, MC

OFFICE BEARERS APPOINTED BY THE COUNCIL

Hon Treasurer—HARRY WHITE, ESQ, FCA
Deputy Hon Treasurer—H. H. RIECK, ESQ

Hon Medical Ofﬁcer—A. N. CRAWFORD, ESQ, FRCSI
Bankers—MESSRS COUTTS AND CO, STRAND, LONDON

Auditors—MESSRS VINEY,

Telegrams—WHITEHALL 7 177

Chief Secretary—JOHN HALL, ESQ

 

 

Assistant Secretaries—D. A. L. CAMM, ESQ, BA

ALLAN J OINER, ESQ

Legal Secretary—R. MURRAY, ESQ

Chief Veterinary Oﬂicer—LT-COL D. I. c. TENNANT, MRcvs, MRSH
PRICE AND GOODYEAR, CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS

Telephone—Whitehall 7177

 

 

of bequest.)

general purposes of that Society, the sum of £ ....................................

R.S.P.C.A=

 

FORM OF BEQUEST FOR NATIONAL WORK

To those benevolent individuals who may wish to become benefactors by Will to this

Society, the following form is respectfully suggested:—

‘1 bequeath to ROYAL SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS, for the

..., free of all duties

 

payable at my death and the receipt of the Treasurer fer the time being of the said Society shall
be a sufﬁcient discharge for such legacy.’ (If it should be desired that the legacy should be expended

on some particular phase of the Society’s work, a direction to this effect may be added to the form

 

 

 

 

CAUTION

By the Act of 7 William IV and IVictoria, cap. 26, all Wills or Codicils must be in Writing signed by the

Testator, and attested by two witnesses in the presence of the Testator and of each other.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

122 THE ANIMAL WORLD

November 1958

 

 

THE RSPCA AT WORK

 

SEPTEMBER. 1958
RSPCA INSPECTORS

1,813 Complaints of cruelty investigated.
1 Offender imprisoned.
42 Offenders ﬁned.
36 Persons guilty of minor acts of cruelty cautioned in writing.
589 Registered cautions were administered by Inspectors.

CLASSIFICATION OF CONVICTIONS

HORSES—Neglecting 1
CATTLE—Shooting and wounding 1
PIGS—Neglecting 1
SHEEP—Neglecting .. 1
DOGS—Neglecting, killing in improper manner, injuring,
etc. 0 9 O O 9 O Q 9 9 f O Q Q Q 19
CATS—Neglecting, killing in improper manner, shooting
and wounding, etc 10
EOWLS——-—Conveying in improper manner, conﬁning in
improper receptacle . . 3
CYGNETS—Shooting and wounding 3
OFFENCES UNDER THE PROTECTION OF BIRDS ACT, 1954:
Injuring 1
VARIOUS OEFENCES:
Infringement of the Transit of Animals (A)
Order, 1931 1
Causing in an offence 1
Permitting in an oﬁence 1
TOTAL NUMBER OF CONVICTIONS 43

I During SEPTEMBER 1958, Magistrates, at the request of the
RSPCA, disqualiﬁed THIRTEEN persons from owning a dog or
holding a dog licence Disqualiﬁcations were as follows:

ONE for 12 months; TWO for 2 years; FOUR for 5 years; ONE
for 10 years; TWO for 20 years, THREE for life

Total number of COMPLAINTS from January Ist 17,386
Total number of CONVICTIONS from January 1st 583
Total number of CAUTIONS from January Ist 5,965

HEADQUARTERS CLINICS

N o. of animals handled:
Cats 4,795 Dogs 4,502 Misc., 1,166 Total 10,463
No. of animals given emergency ﬁrst aid: 3,146

PUTNEY CONVALESCENT WARD

No. of animals handled:
. Dogs 83 Cats 18 Misc., 5 Total 106

NIGHT STAFF

No. of calls received: 1,222

No. of animals given emergency ﬁrst aid: 22

No. of animals treated by Veterinary Surgeon: 154

No. of animals rescued: 3

No. of Inspection complaints: 11

Miles covered by ambulance in respect of urgent calls: 2,407

NORTH WALES UNIT
First aid cases:
Cats 47 Dogs 57 Misc., 9 Total 113

N o. of animals handled by Unit:
Cats 282 Dogs 121 Misc., 17 Total 420

No. of miles covered by Unit: 2,900

DEVON 8L CORNWALL UNIT
Fir aid cases:
Cats 58 Dogs 71 Misc.,9 Total 138

N o. of animals handled by Unit:
Cats 152 Dogs 93 Misc., 11 Total 256

No. of miles covered by Unit: 1,809
SOUTH WALES MOBILE UNIT

First aid cases:
Cats 53 Dogs 242 Misc., 32 Total 327

No. of animals handled by Unit:
Cats 273 Dogs 276 Misc., 36 Total 585

No. of miles covered by Unit: 1,250

AWARDS

CURRENT AWARDS UNDER REVIEW

FILMS

RSPCA FILMS BORROWED 54
SHOWINGS . 79
EDUCATION
TALKS TO SCHOOLS 77
RECORDS FOR 1957
INSPECTION

COMPLAINTS 24,942
CONVICTIONS 852
CAUTIONS 8,596 _

HEADQUARTERS CLINICS
No. of animals handled: 135,570

NIGHT STAFF

:No. of calls: 15,671

 




 

124 THE ANIMAL WORLD

November 1958

 

bird to which he himself has given food; who can

kill the kid as it sends forth cries like those of a

child; or cuts the throat of the calf and turns a deaf

ear to its lowings, and how in his impiety does he
school himself in deceit and prepare himself for the
shedding of human blood!’

Plutarch, in the second century AD, condemned
absolutely the games of the theatre, dwelt with
great force on the effect of such Spectacles in
hardening the character, enumerated in detail and
denounced with unqualiﬁed energy the reﬁned
Cruelties which gastronomic fancies had produced,
and asserted in the strongest language that every
person had duties to the animals as truly as to his
fellow—men.

' In the third. century, Porphyry held that the
higher animals have reason. He said:

From mere wantonness and licentiousness
people cruelly murder—in sport, in the hunting
ﬁeld and in our circuses—vast numbers of their
innocent victims. By all which pastimes the love of
destruction of their own kind and savage instincts

have been strengthened, while at the same time the

instincts of pity and .humanity have been blunted

and all but wholly extinguished.

In the fourth century, the Emperor Constantine
or one of his successors ordained that drovers
should not beat animals with a heavy cudgel but
only with a light whip.

Mohammed opposed cruelty to animals. But in
later centuries, in Islamic scholasticism it was
understood that the indisputable authority,
Aristotle,had laid it down that animals were only
animate automata. This passed into Christian
scholasticism, and millions of animals have
suffered and suffer as a result.

In the thirteenth century the father of St Francis,
a silk merchant having close connections with
southern France, where Pythagoreanism had been
known for centuries, married a woman of that
country. Francis introduced new ideas into
Christianity, including his attitude to animals,
whom he regarded as little brothers.

[To be continued]

 

Cassandra’s Cats (published by Hutchinson,
pp. 87, profusely illustrated, price 125. 6d.)

Mr William Connor (‘Cassandra’ of the Daily '

Mirror) has given to the world a unique book
called Cassandra’s Cats.

Here the author’s vivid imagination and affer
tionate understanding of the cat mind have
provided a series of cameos depicting feline
intelligence, perseverance, prowess and gaiety,
for the enjoyment of all animalalovers, and
particularly of catalovers.

The wonderful accompaniment to these tales
is an unsurpassed collection of perfect pictures.

To see ‘Blackie’ and ‘Theo’ snuggled trustingly
together in Cassandra’s arms, or the adorable
playfulness of ‘Peaches’, would surely appeal even
to people who have no love for cats.

This is for the most part a joyous book, but in
his last chapter, headed ‘Envoy’, Mr Connor
strikes a different note, and refers in the most
moving manner to the terrible sufferings of many
homeless and illvused cats.

All his readers will share his burning indignav
tion at the cruelties which he witnessed in Naples,
and hope with him for the better treatment of
cats and other animals, for which the RSPCA is
constantly working.

M. R. D.

 

Animal Friends and Foes by Osmond P. Brelad.
(Published by Faber and Faber; price 163.;
pp. 240, illustrated and indexed.) '

A very entertaining little book on the animal
’ world, giving many known and unknown in;

teresting facts about the habits of animals and
their beneﬁt to mankind as a whole as well as
their depredations. The book ranges in scope from
the giant mammals such as the whale to the
minute protozoans some of whom cause untold
human misery in certain parts of the world.

The book has a strong transatlantic ﬂavour but
it covers the whole world in its scope and should
do much to dispel some of the myths and fantasies
concerning the good and bad effects of animals
on mankind.

In fact no creature is wholly bad.

D. I. c. T.

 

 

‘Larry’, a donkey pensioner with Mrs Marriott, Frampton
Manse"

 




 

126 THE ANIMAL WORLD

November 1958

 

 

 

Photos by courtesy of Lancashlre Constabulary

DOG TIED AND LEFT 0N3 BEACH
TO DIE egg

A man out exercising his dog on Hendon Beach
found a greyhound with the forelegs strapped
together lying on the beach below cliffs 200 feet
high. The strap which bound the legs passed
round the neck and this was removed at once.
The ﬁnder reported to Inspector Everson who
fed and nursed the greyhound and set out to
investigate who had been so callous as to abandon
the dog in this way.

The Inspector formed the opinion that the dog
had been placed in this position between the tides
and had not been thrown from the cliff top, since
there was no injury to suggest a fall.

The Inspector found the owner who had given
the dog to an acquaintance. The dog had then
been lost.

New Home

Immediately Mr R. Graham of West House,
Norham—on—Tweed, read in local newspapers the
story of this unhappy greyhound, he was in touch
with Mr Freedman, Chairman of the RSPCA
Sunderland Branch, and offered to provide
Prince (which was the dog’s name) with a good
home and‘ a companion in Nell, a collie bitch.
The owner of the greyhound said that he wished
to have Prince destroyed and when this was
known the offer of a good home made by Mr
Graham was accepted.

In the meantime over a hundred other offers
were received at the clinic of a home for Prince.

BATTERY DEATHS

The suffering that results when hens
in a battery are neglected is illust-
rated in this picture. Taken inside a
battery hen cabin, it shows poultry
carcases on the bottom of cages. The
owner of the battery was brought,
by the RSPCA, before the magist-
rates at Bolton, charged with causing
suffering to fowls by neglect, and
was fined £l0, with £8 l4s. 9d. costs.
Giving evidence, Senior Inspector
Faulkner said that in the hen cabin
he found the decomposed bodies of
twenty-eight hens in the batteries
and on the floor of the cabin and he
also found twenty-five live hens in
a fair condition. In the food trough
was a mere scraping of meal, and
the water trough was empty but for
rust and dirt. Neither the mechanical
feeding nor cleaning devices were
working. (8.2585)

CHAIN WOUNDED: KINDNESS HEALED

 

The picture of the dog’s neck shows a wound made by a
rusty chain (used as a collar), which had embedded itself in
the dog’s neck. The two men whose neglect had caused this
to happen were brought before the magistrates at Stockton-
on-Tees and were each fined £l5 and ordered to pay
£2 l7s. 9d. costs. Veterinary treatment provided by the
RSPCA and kindness in a good home made the dog happy
and ﬁt.

Inspector Shuttleworth measured the chain and found it
l5% inches long: the dog’s neck measured l7 inches. When
the chain was cut away, the wound round the neck was
revealed—l inch wide and % inch deep, dirty, bleeding, full
of pus and smelling vilely. The chain was covered with
blood and pus. A veterinary surgeon said that the dog must
have suffered considerably. (Case No. 8.707.)

g




 

 

 

128 THE ANIMAL WORLD

November 1958

 

‘APPALLING NEGLECT’ OF DOG

A young couple were banned from keeping a dog
for ten years at Lymm Sessions, near Warrington.

They were found guilty of causing unnecessary
suffering to a dog by omitting to give it proper
care'and attention. The man was ﬁned £15, plus
ten guineas costs, and his wife was ﬁned £1.

At one stage of the hearing the chairman was
shown pictures of the boxer dog concerned in the
case, and commented: ‘They tell their own story
without any evidence at all. These photographs
show appalling neglect.’

A solicitor prosecuting for the RSPCA said
that Inspector Cox and a police sergeant went to
the home of the two accused and in a yard saw
a small dog kennel in a dilapidated condition. In—
side they found a white boxer dog cold and very
thin. It was snowing heavily at the time, but the
dog’s only bedding was a wet and dirty piece of
sacking. The animal was covered in dirt. It had
sores between its toes and signs of skin disease
about its head. It weighed 42 lb. compared with
the average of between 50 and 60 lbs. for a dog
of that breed; it nearly choked itself with its
ravenous eating when taken to a boarding kennel.

A veterinary surgeon said he examined the
animal and found it to be emaciated, dirty and
suffering from conjunctivitis in both eyes. It only
had eczema round the mouth. It also had an infec—

tion of both ears. (B.3205.)

 

FLESH CAME OFF WITH CHAIN LINKS

So tightly had a chain been tied around a
horse’s neck that pieces of ﬂesh were em-
bedded in the links, Swansea magistrates were

told.

A man was jailed for two months for causing the.

horse unnecessary suffering. He pleaded not
guilty. ‘

Chief Inspector James Nash said he saw a horse
on a piece of waste ground littered with broken
glass and stones. Around the horse’s neck was an
iron chain.

Deep-seated wound

With the assistance of another man and with
great difﬁculty he removed the chain from the
animal’s neck. As he did so a piece of ﬂesh came
away and was embedded in three links of the
chain. ,

On top of the neck was a deapvseated wound.

In a statement read by Inspector Nash, the de—
fendant was alleged to have said he borrowed the
animal from another man and he asked someone
else to look after it. He found a chain had been
put around the horse’s neck and he asked a man
to take it off.

In evidence the defendant said he left the place
where the horse was and he was unable to look
after it himself.

Sentencing the defendant the chairman told
him: ‘This is a serious and callous case and we
feel we have no option but to send you to prison.’

(B.3142.)

 

BABOON’S HAND BURNT

A man was ﬁned £25, and ordered to pay £12 175.
costs, for burning a zoo baboon by giving it a
lighted match. He denied the charge.

The chairman of Exmouth magistrates said that
if his action had been deliberate, and that of a
cruel man, they would have had no hesitation in
sending him to prison for three months.

The action, however, had been done on the
spur of the moment. It was a cruel and stupid one
and he regretted it now.

Opening the case, a solicitor prosecuting for
the RSPCA said that a woman was watching the
baboons in a cage when she heard one man say
to another, ‘Let’s give the monkey a match.’ (The
second man was charged, but found Not Guilty).

A cigarette was lit and one of the men offered
the burning match through the wire mesh. One
of the baboons grabbed the ﬂame, then jumped
back and sat down, shaking and licking its hands.

The woman told the court that after the baboon
had grabbed the match she said to the men: ‘Oh,
you wicked things. How could you be so cruel?’

They laughed. She followed one of the men out
of the zoo.

A veterinary surgeon said he examined the
baboon two days after the incident.

Its right knuckles were scorched, the fur had
been burned away and there was a small blister.

The defendant told the court he went into the
zoo soon after the second man and his wife, and
went to the monkey cage.

There was a crush of people, and he was close
to the wire. A monkey took an unlit cigarette
from between his ﬁngers. So he took out another,
lit it, and held the match close to the wire and
said, ‘You’d better have a light now.’

He said: ‘It was just a joke, I was going to blow
it out, and had no intention of letting the monkey
have it.

‘It was so quick I could not see how the monkey
got hold of it.’

He told the Bench that the second man had
nothing to do with the burning. (B2468; Senior
Inspector Pickett.)

 

Complaints of cruelty are treated with the strictest con-
ﬁdence by the RSPCA.

 




 

130 THE ANIMAL WORLD

November 1958

 

 

 

Photo by courtesy of Lance of York

' Scarborough and District Branch van decorated for a Dutch
Festival Carnival and used in the RSPCA Horse Parade at
Scarborough and Whitby Flag Day

UP THE GARDEN PATH

A spaniel collecting box placed by Mrs Donovan
(Brentwood aux hon sec) in the porch of her
home raised no less than £13 for branchfunds in
a little over eight months. The box was only
accessible by way of the garden path, but this did
not discourage wouldabe donors.

Other helpers may be tempted to give a spaniel
collecting box a private billet where it has opporv
tunities for leading donors ‘up the garden path’.

T AINTED LIVERS: PROHIBITION

Following protests by the RSPCA on the ima
portation of tainted livers from New Zealand,
swift and gratifying action is reported in this
letter from the Agricultural Adviser of the New
Zealand Government to the Medical Ofﬁcer of
Health, Port and City of London:

‘ ‘I have received cabled advice from the Gov
ernment that as from August 31, 1958, the ex—
port of reject livers for animal feed and
pharmaceutical purposes from New Zealand is
being prohibited.’

@bituczry

With sincere regret we report these deaths: Mrs
E. C. Vaughan, Co Hon Sec Merthyr Tydfil
Branch; Mr S. M. Douglas, former Co Hon Sec
Craven and Upper Wharfedale Branch; Mrs
Martin, Hon Sec of Surrey—Weybridge Auxi’
liary and Branch; Dr H. M. Cooper, Chairman
Fylde Branch; Miss Yvonne Arnaud, supporter;
Mrs Wallis Power (see page 121).

6"
6E Cl iii/i113 memouaf
In memory of her father, Mr S. C. Capper, Miss

Capper has bought for the Bideford Auxiliary a
spaniel collecting box.

 

PANGS OF CONSCIENCE

An anonymous correspondent, sending £3
to Chief Inspector T. Evans for the Here
fordshire Branch, wrote: ‘Please accept this
small contribution towards your worthy
cause, from someone who has caused
suffering to some dumb animals, and now
feels the pangs of his cruelty.’

 

 

 

ANTARCTIC HUSKIES

Sir Vivian Fuchs writes to the RSPCA: ‘I am
delighted to know that the dogs are now safely
and happily in Norway, and most grateful to the
RSPCA for all they have done to ensure that
they found happy homes where they can cone
tinue to be of use.’

BRANCH NEWS

(Where a function is organized for the raising of funds, we give,
wherever possible, the place where held, the type of function,
and the name of the organizer or organizers, followed by the
sum raised. The letters AM indicate annual meeting; they are
followed by the word branch, or the name of the auxiliary, and
an indication, where possible, of the person presiding and of
oﬁcials presenting reports; other information is given as
necessary.)

Burton-on-Trent Hanbury, dance, Mrs E. M. Ford (aux
hon sec), £25 10s.

Cornwall—West Camborne, Mobile Unit display, Mrs
Dunn (aux hon sec), £4 7s. 2d, ; Camborne (dog box collec—
tion, Timothy White), £125 9s. 4d. in fourteen months.
Essex—North-West Braintree, jumble sale, Mrs Cooke
(aux hon sec), £5 for clinic funds.

Exeter, East and West Devon Budleigh Salterton, annual
sale of gifts, Colonel Andrews (aux hon sec) and Mrs
Andrews, £124 (last year £67).

Great Yarmouth and District Yarmouth, gymkhana, horse
parade _and dog show, Mr Jack Guyton (chairman of
orgamzmg committee). Prizes were presented by Mrs C. E.
Kevill-Davies (wife of the branch president). £355 1s.
Hampshire—Ramsey Romsey, fete, Miss E. M. Collins
(branch hon sec), held in the gardens of Linden House by
kind permission of Dr and Mrs Johnson. Fete was opened by
the Mayor of Romsey, Councillor H. G. Mackrell, and
prizes were presented by the Mayoress. £105 8s.
Kent—Folkestone and District F olkestone, annual fete, £168.
Montgomery Llandrindod Wells, display shop, Mrs Walsh
(aux hon sec), £72 2s. 10d.

Newcastle-upon-Tyne Gosforth, coﬂ‘ee morning and bring
and buy sale, £35.

Norfolk—Mid, and Norwich Cringleford, garden sale, Miss
E. Cole (aux hon sec), £65 9s.

Norfolk West Hunstanton, coffee morning, Mrs Stuart
Mudie (aux hon sec), £16 3s. 9d.

Staffordshire—North Burslem and Chell aux, anonymous
gift of £300.

Surrey—Epsom and District Leatherhead, jumble sale, Mrs
Robinson, £25.

Surrey—Kingston, Surbiton, District and South Middlesex

,East Molesey, dog show, Mrs Moon (Branch hon sec),

over £20.
Worcestershire—East and West Warwickshire Henley-in-

Arden, jumble sale, Mrs M. Thomas (aux hon sec) and
committee, £22.

 




1321 THE ANIMAL WORLD November 1958

 

 

 

£ 5. d. £ 3. d.
Moor Ends, Mrs S Baldwin (aux hon sec): 20 10 10%— Aberdare 25 10 7
Belton, MrsH. Ross (Aux hon sec).. . 11 1 10 Pontypr1dd 58 17 O
Crowle, Mrs Spencer (aux hon sec)... 4 11 % —————__
Dunscroft and Dunsville, Mr Hodson (aux £579 1 3
cho1 111(011 sec) k. ( h ) . .. 12 8 31 w—-——=
Fis a e, MissB Duc 1tt aux on sec 2‘ ' °
Hatﬁeld, Mrs H. Ferrari (aux hon sec) . 7 9 4 Essex JOlnt Anlmal Flag Day
Kirk Sandall and Barnby Dun, Mrs Shelton £ 5. d.
and Miss Shelton (aux co hon secs) . 12 7 10 Cambridgeshire (Saffron Walden) 1 5 0
Stainforth, Mrs Ellis (aux hon sec) and Mr Essex, Colchester and District . 400 12 5
Adshead 14 0 0 Essex Mid, Chelmsford and District” 592 4 8
—- Tilbury Clinic .. 33 14 8
£136 13 8 Harold Hill and Harold Wood Division 60 3 0
—-—————~———-———- Essex Nortlh Westh a 225 1 2
. . . Essex Sout Sout en 126 10 4
Bldeford and DIStht Essex South West 13 7 10
The following results have been notiﬁed by Miss B. Shelmerdine, , Harlow Division. . 120 13 7
Aux ho” 360‘ £ 5 d London Joint Animal Flag Day, 1958
Abbotsham 1 11 4 Collections were:
Appledore 7 2 3 Branch or Clinic £ 5. d.
Bideford 58 16 0 Balham and Tooting... 323 14 9
Clovelly 18 3 10 Barnet 207 2 10
Hartland 3 16 6 Bromley 432 1 2
Northam .. y 14 7 9 Chiswick 207 17 6
Westward Ho!.. 9 9 3 Croydon .._. 181 5 0
—-———— Crystal Palace 230 11 10
£113 6 11 Ealing... 260 7 8
m Enﬁeld 727 9 9
. Essex SW 467 9 4
BerkShlre CountY ,, ,, (Chingford Clinic) 85 5 1
District Collections for the Reading, with Berks, Hants and Finchley 304 11 10
Oxon Border Branch: Forest Hill 252 13 1
£ 3. d. Herts West 56 14 0
Wokingham 110 16 6 Highgate .. 458 3 9
Maidenhead 90 0 4 Kent North West 433 13 2
Earley 47 16 10%— London East 17 12 3
Wallingford 39 15 8 ,, (POplar Division) 20 7 11
Bracknell - 34 5 1 London North East . 176 17 9
Didcot 28 1 0 ,, South East 258 8 0
Woodley 2-6 5 3 Middlesex North West 709 10 6
Pangbourne 16 19 6 Richmond .. 278 11 7
Mortimer 16 14 6 Streatham, Brixton and Clapham 447 17 1’
Brightwell chm Sotwell 16 5 0 Surrey, Epsom .. 461 5 9
Holyport 14 3 1% ,, Kingston 401 9 0
Burghﬁeld 12 14 2 ,, Purley 301 2 5
Spencers Wood 10 7 2 ,, Sutton ‘ 343 10 0
Wargrave 9 14 10 West London 682 13 2
' Sonning 9 6 3 ,, ,, (Animal Aid &Welf. Club) 218 0 6
Binﬁeld... 7 13 9 2) (Animal War Mem. Disp.) 305 13 3
Purlev 7 6 o Wimbledon 572 17 11
Arborﬁeld 7 4 1 Windsor 162 5 4
Twyford 6 8 0 ,, West Drayton Auxiliary:: 122 1 3
Crowmarsh 6 1 11 ,, Hillingdonn Clinic” . . 9,1 14 4
Shurlock Row .. 5 13 3 Headquarters” .. 2,043 7 6
Waltham St Lawrence 5 6 9 *Miscellaneous . . . . . . . . . . 119 1 4
Charvil... . 3 17 4%; Animal Help Society 352 9 11
Beenham 3 10 0 Animal Rescue League 448 10 8
Bray . 2 18 11 Balham Clinic . . 110 19 7
Upper Basildon 2 2 11%- Bethnal Green Clinic 88 11 6
Streatley 1 4 4 . Bird Fund . 212 19 7
Bow Clinic 114 11 0
£542 12 7 Ealing and Hanwell Shelter: 189 3 4
———*——— Lee (ﬁlinic 139 1 1
May eW Home 113 7 2
Glamorga“ county Putney Clinic .. 223 4 11
£ 3 d. St John Partridge Memorial Clinic 191 3 0
Penarth 62 7 7 Sister Mabel’ s Dispensary 105 9 2
Port Talbot 118 p 6 10 South Harrow Clinic 195 1 4
Maesteg 70 0 10
Blaengwynﬁ - 4 1 0 Total £14,848 8 10
Aberkenﬁg 28 9 8 m
Porthcawl - 131 9 2 * COllections made on behalf of the provincial Branches who
Neath ... 79 18 7 sent sellers specially for the occasion.

._ “w w--.-_..-v .-_-

 

 

 




 

 

 

@Mﬂﬁnmg

Manufacturers of

UNIFORM CLOTHING

HOBSON & SONS CAPS HELMETS LEATHER
(LONDON) LTD

BELTS POUCHES etc. etc.

Gold and Silver Laces
Embroideries of every
Allinqum-es ,0 description for ALL

154-164 TOOLEY STREET UNIFORMED SERVICES

LONDON BRIDGE S.E.1 PATTERNS OF CLOTH
and ESTIMATES

Telephone: HOP 2476 (3 lines) will be forwarded free of charge
Telegrams: HOBSON, SEDIST, LONDON

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

* ATTRACTIVE ANIMAL STUDIES *

CHRISTMAS CARDS AND CALENDARS

SOLD IN AID OF THE RSPCA

ALL STUDIES IN
For fully illustrated pamphlet, please complete the form below and send to: BLACK AND WHITE ONLY

RSPCA, 105 JERMYN STREET, LONDON, SW1 *

 

________________________ CUTHERE--——-——--—-———————--———- CARDS

 

2/6 per packet of six

(Please complete in block letters and aﬂix 2d. stamp, which will
save RSPCA expense)

Mr
NAME Mrs ............................................................................................
MlSS

ADDRESS .......................................................................................

Two or more packets
ordered, price 2/3 per packet

 

 

 

CALENDARS

 

2/— each, or 21 /— per dozen

(Suitable envelopes for cards
and calendars supplied free)

- — — "CUT HERE

 

Printed by Shenval Press, Simson Shand Ltd, London, Hertford and Harlow, and
published by John Hall for the RSPCA at 105 Jermyn Street, London, SW1

 




