 

 

 

9O THEANIMALWORLD

August 1956

 

light, watching the people just like the circus
jumbo watches you when you go near.

‘I looked at the exhausted rattan men, their
bloody canes still in their hands. And then came
those two horrible cows, shuffling eagerly towards
the stocks, giggling, chirrupping and snufﬁng like
two wicked old witches, hurrying to a murder.
Their mahouts, drunk as dogs, were grinning
through betelvstained lips and rattling their
chains.

‘That was too much for me. That animal, stand,
ing so quietly, had taken all that 40 tormentors
could do to him and he had not broken. Damn, I
cursed, he deserves something better than strange
ling. I ran to my hut and took my express riﬂe, a
.450 Westley Richards. The elephant watched as I
hurried toward him. I had the feeling he knew
what I was about to do. Maybe he would have
thanked me if he’d been able; I don’t know. I put
the muzzle close to that spot at the root of the
trunk midway between the eyes and a little above
them, and squeezed the triggers.

‘The recoil nearly knocked me down as the
heavy bullets smashed into his head. He stood
fast, looking at me, the great hole in him. Then he
groaned once, a deep shuddering moan, and col—
lapsed, his great weight pulling down the stocks
that still held his head.

‘The Bataks were all over me like ants. I kicked
them away and swung my riﬂe, ready to break
some heads. But they tripped me from behind
and dragged me to where the radja squatted, suck;

 

 

 

ing wine from a jar. He screamed at me like an
hysterical woman, what with rage at not seeing the
bull strangled and temper that he could not break
the beast’s spirit. I was scared; I thought he’d split
me open. And that did something to me.

‘ “Go ahead!” I yelled at him. ‘You put your
hand on me, and I’ll lay a curse on you that will
make all your-children look like pigs!”

‘I don t know what made me think of that. But
Bataks are deathly afraid of curses and pigs are the
things they despise most. Anyhow he had me
thrown out and reported me to the oﬂicials. And,
do you know what? That swine swore I had delia
berately destroyed a valuable elephant that was
trained and ready for sale. I was forbidden ever to
hunt animals in his province again.’

Boon quit hunting elephants after that.

‘When I went to a circus, I looked at the ﬁne
man in the beautiful uniform and the great,
patient beast following him around like a little lap—
dog, and I thought: You think you’re a fine animal
trainer, don’t you? Well, you haven’t trained any—
thing. All you did was teach little tricks to a noble
beast whose heart was broken before you ever
saw him. And I thought of naked little men, with
betel juice dribbling down their chins, walking
behind an elephant and cutting him to ribbons to
break his heart so he could learn how to stand on
his head and beg for peanuts. It kind of spoiled
the circus for me,’ Boon finished. ‘And when a
man gets so he doesn’t enjoy the circus anymore,
it’s time he quit something.’

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

COUNCIL MEMBER IN EGYPT

    

   

PORTUGAL
Oxen Blindfolded
RSPCA Headquarters asked the SPCA in Lisbon
about the employment of blindfolded oxen in
Portugal and has received this answer:

‘We are pleased to inform you that this Society
has long since instituted two joint Public Powers
to prohibit this cruel method represented in the
illustration which you sent to us. We are pleased
to say that this practice is gradually disappearing
and the districts in which the method is still

Three pictures Commemorating a visit by Mrs W. Longman, Council Member,
(centre), with two veterinary surgeons (in White coats) and, on Mrs Longman’s
Brooke Hospital for Animals, Cairo, and Dr Lewa Ahmed Tew
accommodation for donkeys is shown. These two pictures were taken in Cairo,

use of bullocks—reminiscent of biblical times—

    

 

to Egypt show: (left picture), Mrs Longman
left, Mrs Taylor Smith, hon treasurer of the

ﬁk, hon supt of the Cairo SPCA; (centre picture), the Society’s

and the third picture, from Thebes, shows the
for raising water

 

being used are now few. Our Institution has
great hopes that it will be rapidly extinguished.

PET ANIMALS ACT

A recent decision of the Ashford Urban District
COUDCil, to the effect that no pets shall be sold in
Ashford Market during cold weather and that no
dogs, puppies, cats or kittens are to be exhibited
or sale in the market at any time, affords proof
that the Pet Animals Act is giving better prO’
tection to the animals of this country.

 




 

ROYAL SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS
Founded 1824 Headquarters: 105 Jermyn Street, London, S.W.1

P A T R O N S
HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN
HER MAJESTY QUEEN ELIZABETH, THE QUEEN MOTHER
HER ROYAL HIGHNESS PRINCESS ALICE COUNTESS OF ATHLONE
HER ROYAL HIGHNESS PRINCESS ARTHUR OF CONNAUGHT

PRESIDENT

PROFESSOR GILBERT MURRAY, OM, MA, DLITT, DCL, FBA

VICE-PRESIDENTS
SIR MALCOLM SARGENT, HON LLD, DMUS, FRCM, PRSA

THE EARL OF SHAFTESBURY, KP, PC COLONEL R. M. POWELL, DSO

THE COUNCIL

Chairman: THE RT HON LORD MERTHYR, DL, TD, JP
Vice-Chairman: *MRS WALLIS POWER, JP

 

 

*ALLIBERT, MRS GARDNER, HON. JULIET *PRITCHARD, MRS D.
*ALSOP, ALDERMAN A. J., FRCA, FCIS, JP *HARVEY, MRS J. w., MA *RATTRAY, R. F., ESQ, MA, PH.D
ANDERSON, L. K., ESQ., MRCVS, DVM. HOBHOUSE, J. S. ESQ. RISELﬁy, MR5 R. c,
BERTIE OF THAME, THE RT HON THE VISCOUNTESS HOGG, s. R., ESQ, Dso, MC *RIECK, H. H., ESQ
BRANSOM, MISS L. G., FRSA HOWELL, BASIL P., ESQ, MBE SHAFTESBURY,-THE RT HON THE COUNTESS OF
BYWATER, H. E., ESQ., MRCVS *HUNTER, MISS SIBLY, w. A., ESQ, MA, JP
CONNICK, REV. WILLIAM, BD, FR MET s, HON CF LEE, MRS E. M. SNELL, ALDERMAN THE REV PREBENDARY L. J. B.,
*COOPER, ALDERMAN J. D., JP LOCKWOOD, LT-COL J. C., JP, TD MBE, TD, HON.CF (HEREFORD)
DORCHESTER, LT-COL THE RT HON LORD, OBE, JP LONGMAN, MRS w. *TAIT, MRS, MA
*DOWDELL, MRS M. R. MACNAGHTEN, MAJOR A- *WALPORD, MRS DESBOROUGH
ESTCOURT-OSWALD, MISS AGNES, MB (LOND), DPH MOORE, LT-COL SIR THOMAS, BART, CBE, MP *WHITE, HARRY, ESQ, FCA
(CANTAB), DOMS POULETT, THE RT HON THE EARL WILLERT, SIR ARTHUR, KBE
*EVANS, MRS DAVID, BA POWELL, COL R. M., DSO *WINCHESTER, F. J., ESQ, FCIS, Fss

 

*Denotes Branch Representative

 

OFFICE BEARERS APPOINTED BY THE COUNCIL

Hon Treasurer—LT-COL J - C- LOCKWOOD, LP» TD Chief Secretary—ARTHUR W. MOSS, ESQ, MBE, ACIS
Deputy Hpn Treasurer—HARRY WHITE, ESQ, FCA Assistant Secretary—D. A. L. CAMM, ESQ, BA
Hon Medical Officer—A. N. CRAWFORD, ESQ, FRCSI Legal Secretary—J. HALL, ESQ
Bankers—MESSRS COUTTS AND CO, STRAND, LONDON Chief Veterinary Ofﬁcer—MAJOR R. C. G. HANCOCK, BSC, MRCVS
Auditors—MESSRS VINEY, PRICE AND GOODYEAR, CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS
Telegrams—WHITEHALL 7177 Telephone—Whitehall 7177

FLAG DAY
GOODS

PLASTIC BADGES

LI ST ON APPLICATION

THE UNIVERSAL BUTTON CO. LTD.

1-9 Birkbeck Street, Bellmal Green, LONDON, 13-2
Telephone: BIShopsgate 5750 Telegrams: ‘Unibutco Edo’

   
  
     

,-.
I"

‘ xll. '
[If/x, ,/_
z

 

 

RSPCA FILM NEWS

A . ,3. The Society’s ﬁlms were sent to the following places for

‘ showing recently:
Broadstairs, Whitechapel, Westoning, Lode, Middles—
SIMPLE
O. ‘

borough, Bacup, Farnham, Port Talbot, Lenton, BrockleY,
East Ham, Markﬁeld, West Norwood, Rotherhithe, Son‘
SAFE . .
' SURE ﬁCCiASH Xiﬂ

ning Common, Newport Pagnell, Aberystwyth, Working'
ton, Ilfracombe, Hammersmith, Liverpool, Llanelly, Gates'
head, Sidcup, Canning Town, Wrekenton, Knutsford,
CYOVdOn, Maidstone, Beckenham, Knighton, London
CAPTIVE BOLT PISTOL
FOR ALL ANIMALS
“it”: no snuvox! llD - BIRMINGHAM - s - Ensuuo
5456

    
     

 

Docks, Codsall, Royston, Whitstable, Blackburn, White!
haven, Camborne.

 

DO NOT DELAY

Complete and send the form on the back cover——
obtain full details of RSPCA Cards and Calendars.

 
 

, .

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

ANIMALTH

EWORI)

THE OFFICIAL MAGAZINE OF THE RSPCA

 

 

Vol LI No 8 New Series

AUGUST I 9 56

PRICE THREEPEN CE

53. per annum. Post Paid

 

KINDNESS PAYS

By permission of the BBC and of Mr C. A. Joyce,
we give brief extracts from a broadcast talk by Mr Joyce
in the ‘Late Sunday Special’ series.

On my way to Broadcasting House, I passed a cirv
cus packing up for a move, and my heart is sick
tonight because my mind has a sort of photo;
graph of all those boxes and cages hoisted up and
trundled about—and in the boxes, something
alive. It’s only my opinion, but I just hope and
pray that one day we shall grow up and stop any,
thing and everything that causes misery, suffering
and pain to men and beasts alike.

I want to say a word of two tonight to people
who may be thinking ‘What a lot of fuss about
animals! Just silly, softheartedness I call it!’

Well now! It isn’t only that—though I’m con—
pelled to say that I’d rather live with—yes, and be
judged by—soft—hearted people than by hard
hearts full of hatred and cruelty, wouldn’t you?
When we’re unhappy, lonely, or ill, we do apprea
ciate the gentle hands, don’t we?

On the Farm

Something happened on our farm this year that
in the ﬁrst place surprised me, and then made me
think for a long time and very deeply.We’ve got
200 hens that live on the deep litter system, and
in the ordinary circumstances they are looked
after by the wife of the farm bailiff. Some people
smiled at the way she treated those chickens!
‘Why,’ they said, ‘they might be children—the
way she talks to them: knows them all by sight
and notices if one is offvcolour or not very well,
and generally seems to be concerned about their
appiness.’

Quite suddenly—within 24 hours, in fact—two
things happened: the farm bailiff’s wife was taken
to hospital (she’s still away but is recovering,
thank God) and a business man will say ‘You’re
a pair of hands short on the farm.’ That’s right, so
I am, but I’ll tell you something else: we’re six
dozen eggs a day short too! Six dozen a day! Ever

since that girl went away, the poultry have gone .

off their lay in no small way, and I wondered if
there could be any connection. So I made en—
quiries of reputable poultry farmers who make
their living in the business, and what do you think
they said? They assured me that what they called

‘happy birds’ laid better and more consistently
than those left to the usual process of mere feed—
ing and watering without the personal touch about
it, and that was conﬁrmed by the late Chief Veterv
inary Inspector of the Ministry of Agriculture.

Calving time

Do you know, I can’t remember the last time we
lost a cow or calf during calving time? Why don’t
we? Well, partly because we don’t have any fear
or any struggles against it. None of our cattle has
ever felt a stick on its body. Each is known by
name, and when they’re moved from place to
place, they’re called and not driven. So what hapa
pens? When she’s due to calve and the birth is
difﬁcult, there’s no question of roping the heifer
down and ﬁghting her struggles as well as the
birth. She will stand with a boy at her head—she,
wildreyed in pain; the boy talking away to her all
the time in a voice she knows, and the painful
process goes on to a successful end without any
more hurt than must be, and what is very import—
ant indeed, without fear.

 

TINY ONES LIST ENED

Confronted with children ran ing in age between
5 and 11 one RSPCA school ecturer was appre—
hensive that the tiny ones might ﬁdget. However,
they were so interested in the lecturer’s words
that they did not ﬁdget at all and were as good as
the older children. _

Since the last report 212 lectures were given in
schools in Surrey, Rutland, Essex, Devon, Caer—
narvonshire, Yorkshire, West Suffolk, Kent and
the London area. Three Children’s Cinema Clubs
in Streatham were also addressed.

Thirty—three new Animal Defender Groups
were formed; 700 children joined the Head—
quarters Group.

SIXPENNY SEAT

The ingenuity of RSPCA wellvwishers in the invention of schemes
for raising money to help the Society’s good work makes us
doubt whether there is ‘nothing new under the sun’.

The DAILY MIRROR recently printed this letter from
Mrs Dudman, of Richmond, Surrey:

‘This week my husband bought two new deck chairs for the
garden. One of my sons at once suggested: “Let’s put 6d. in
the box each time we use them!” And we do—in an RSPCA
collecting box.’

 




 

 

 

88 THEANIMAL WORLD

August 1956

 

 

 

 

HOW TO BREAK AN ELEPHANT’S HEART

by Brian O’Brien

(Reprinted from the American magazine Real, the
exciting magazine for men, published monthly,
price 25 cents.) ‘

 

Real introduced this article with these words:
Got a weak stomach? Then skip this—if you
read it you’ll never see a circus again.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Drawing based on a photograph, which appeared with the

original article bearing this caption: Broken Elephant, after

being tamed in the jungle, is crated for shipment to a US
circus

The man in the centre ring cracks his whip and the
big Jumbos lope around in a circle, their trunks
gripping the tail of the elephant in front. Then
there’s a whistle, and the beasts rock in a comic
but appealing ‘dance.’

Big, gentle monsters, aren’t they? Any circus
man will tell you that the elephant is the most
popular animal under the Big Top. But did you
ever wonder why they’re so easy to handle at the
circus? How are the mammoth beasts taught such
delicate tricks?

They learn in a spiritvbreaking ordeal that takes
months and often lives.

I’ve seen it and lived with it.

It isn’t pleasant.

In Sumatra, native scouts would round up a
herd and drive them toward a stockade about 100
feet in diameter. Using gongs, rattles and guns,
the natives set up a din that frighten the herd,
keeping it moving toward the chute that leads into
the stockade.

When they enter the chute, all hell. breaks loose.
Beaters scream, gongs thunder, and guns are ﬁred
to keep the terriﬁed animals moving down the
chute to the stockade. After they’re all inside,
ropes holding the door over the entrance are cut
and the door slams down—on the inside—so the
pressure of the elephants’ bodies jams it even
tighter.

They’re left alone until they stop trying to butt
down the walls. Then the breaking pens are built;
the elephants have to be broken right here in the
jungle before being shipped to zoos and circuses.

Some elephants escape the breaking grind. But
only by slow death. These are the tuskers.

Henrick Boon, an elephant man in Indonesia
before the natives chased out the Dutch, once told
me that elephants with tusks are not worth break—
ing. ‘The ivory they carry is worth almost as much
as 3 tusker would fetch after being broken,’ he
sa1 .

‘What do you do with them?’ I asked. ‘Shoot
them?’ .

‘Shells cost money,’ he grinned. ‘We put the
tuskers in a breaking pen which has two posts
driven into the ground to form a V. The tusker’s
head is dragged between these posts until he is
caught behind the ears. Then crossbars are shoved
under his belly, ahead of his hind legs and behind
his forelegs at such a height that his feet can just
barely touch the ground. Now he’s helpless and
ready for the cows.’

‘Cows?’ I said.

‘An old Radja, Palem Kok, has a pair of scarred
old cows that I swear enjoy what they have to do.
They come lumbering up to the trapped tusker
and rub against him until he calms down and stops
trying to pull his head out of the stocks. Then the
mahouts slip chains about his neck and tie them to
the cows. The cows immediately lunge away from
the tusker and the chains drag tight until he kicks
and groans, his little triangular mouth gurgling un'
til the blood comes and he strangles to death, his
head torn half off.’

Those are the luckiest of the trapped beasts; for
the rest the trouble is only just starting.

The herd is starved for days, given just enough
food and water to maintain life and make thten
less dangerous to handle. Then the chosen one 13
let out of the stockade and into the corridor that
leads to the breaking stocks. Once in the corridor
he is penned fore and aft; the corridor is too nar’
row for him to turn about.

“While he is eagerly eating the food that has lured
him 1nto the corridor, he is hobbled at knee an
ankle so he can only make little sininch steps fat
a time. His trunk is secured so that he can’t klu

 

 




x Ilﬂvfx Eladt‘lal nut \

Tum“.-__4,, -A ,,

 

 

 

4
4
L
_
,
4
V
_

 

 

‘Have y

ou hear

 

 

 

 

P
O
I:
1..
u.
0
s
a
P
J
a
D
m...
n
I
a.
D
1
1'
a
u.
a
s

7,
a

 

 

 




 

 

August 1956

anyone with it and rattan lines are fastened to fore
and hind feet. Then the poles ahead of him are
pulled out and by snubbing the rattan lines
around the stakes ahead, and by jabbing him with
spears from behind, he is gradually dragged into

the breaking stocks, his head made fast and his.

weight taken up by the cross bars. And there he
stays for two weeks and his ﬁrst lesson.

During that time he is again fed very little. His
mahout comes to him for the ﬁrst time, climbs
over him, dodging the butting head, scrubbing his
ears, oiling his hide, washing his eyes out, giving
him his tiny ration of fruit and water, until he is
used to having a man on him. When that time
comes, he is ready for the most important lesson.

Don’t forget that the elephant’s trunk, though
he can kill a man with it, is very sensitive; he keeps
it coiled out of the way when danger threatens.
And that’s part of the lesson.

The foot hobbles are taken off, a rope made fast
to the trunk and strong rattans fastened to fore
and hind feet. Then the mahout climbs on the ele
phant’s neck and the head is freed from the stocks.
At ﬁrst he stands. Then the men on the trunk rope
pull and he walks out, apparently free. But if he
tries to run, the foot—rope men trip him up and
down he goes with a bang that shakes him up
pretty badly. He gets to his feet again and the
trunk men pull him‘ in another direction. If he
tries to run ahead, the hind footvrope men pull
him down. After a few shattering falls, he is con—
tent to walk where they pull him. The mahout calls
directions and stabs at his head with the ankus,
the hooked goad, and he walks this way and that.
But that is not enough for the trainers.

Walking behind the elephant are half a dozen
men with stout rattans. They chant a song as they
march, keeping time by slashing the hindquarters
of the elephant with the rattans. The most tender
part of the big beast’s hide is at the root of the tail,
and that’s where the pitiless rattans beat, slash and
cut——minute after minute, hour after hour. At
ﬁrst the brute, excited by all this pulling and haul~
ing and shouting, doesn’t notice the whangy canes
cutting at him. Then, as he gets used to the mov’
ing about, the canes begin to sting. He can’t turn
his head for the trunk rope men would hurt his
trunk. He can’t run or they trip him up. He just
goes on, tears pouring out of his eyes, moaning,
Snufﬁng in his trunk on through the heat of the
day, under the boiling sun that the elephant can~
not stand."

Then his head hangs and he screams once, a
long, roaring, choking scream.

His heart, his spirit, is broken.

He doesn’t try to run now, or even get his trunk
away. He is at the mercy of the devils tormenting
him. He acknowledges it.

He is ready for anything they want to do to him.

They feed him and take him to the river for a

THEAN’IMAL WORLD 89

bath. He never goes back to the stocks. He is now
a tame elephant. ~

‘But not always!’ Boon told me. ‘I remember an
elephant once that they couldn’t break. They took
him out of the stocks; his mahout was a Batak
named Bonan. First of all he tried to charge the
trunk men. He was tripped and brought down
with a thump that shook the whole camp. He
lashed with his feet and tried to roll on Bonan. But
the mahout had jumped clear. The rope'men stood
away and hauled at him until he got to his feet.
His eyes were red with anger and his trunk,
mufﬂed in the leather harness, made squealing
sounds of fury. The mahout mounted and the
trunk men hauled him. He lunged ahead and the
hind feet were dragged backwards until he was
almost spreadeagled. He rolled again until his
hide was grey with dust and there was blood on
his trunk. Four times he was thrown and then
they let him rest because the rope—men needed it.

‘They started again in the afternoon. This time
he obeyed. But in his throat he was gurgling and
his head kept jerking at the trunk rope. Behind
him walked the rattan men, grinning as they struck
at the tender spots up under his tail. At the ﬁrst
strokes he stopped, clamped his tail down and
bawled like a bull. The trunk men hauled and he
had to go ahead. Again the rattans slashed at him.
He bucked, fought the ropes and reared up on his
hind legs.

‘They dragged him down with a thump and he
walked on, the rattan men laughing like maniacs '
as their canes grew bloody. From right to left he
followed the trunk men. He backed up, went
ahead, turned, halted.

‘But they Couldn’t make him scream.

‘Bonan jammed the prod into his head, slashed
at his ears. The trunk men jerked the harness until
the trunk dripped blood. There was blood on his
head and falling from behind his ears into the
sand as they pulled him around and around and
around.

‘It became dark, but Radj a Palem Kok told the
mahout to keep him walking until he gave up.
They lit great ﬁres about the camp and torches
silhouetted the massive shape lumbering amid his
torturers, silent under the jabbing, the jerking and
the vicious slashing of the rattans.

‘But it was not the elephant’s heart that broke.
The radja sent slaves to slash the rattan men, to
revile the mahout. What kind of trainers were
they? he bawled. ‘

‘Frantically, they went on. Gongs echoed the
ﬁres ﬂamed, but the elephant would not scream.
Finally the radja ordered a halt. The elephant
went back to the stocks.

‘I heard the racket and was unable to sleep. I
went down to the camp and saw the beast standing
in the pen, the poles gripping his head, blood
dripping from him, his little eyes, red in the ﬁre—

 




 

92 THEANIMALWORLD

The Inspector was given medical attention for
the extensive injuries to his hands, arms, knees
(badly grazed and cut), and to his chest, back,
shoulders and nape (deep lacerations).

Medals

With only four months’ service as an In!
spector, this officer already holds the RSPCA
bronze medal, as well as a certiﬁcate, for gallantry
in the rescue of animals. For his latest exploit he
has received a silver medal.

Other RSPCA silver medal winners in the
latest list published are Police Constable F.
White, who rescued a dog from a cliff ledge at
Upton Cliffs, Bude, Cornwall, and three men
who together rescued a sheep from Honister
Crag, Borrowdale, Cumberland—Colonel H.
Westmorland, Dr J. B. Joyce and Mr M. James.

The ledge on which the dog rescued by Police
Constable White was stranded measured only
18 inches by 3 feet, and about 8 feet of the cliff
over hung the ledge. He was lowered to the
rescue by rope.

Two sheep were involved in the second silver
medal rescue. The ﬁrst one was rescued by
Colonel Westmorland and Dr Joyce, who
climbed to reach the sheep on a fairly broad
ledge.

 

Reprinted from Reveille, with acknowledgments:
Curious Creatures —

Ventriloquist bird ‘plays trains’

A mass ceremonial dance and grand parade is occasionally held by Austra—
lian Brolgas birds. And, like good soldiers, they always follow their ‘general.’

 

Every so often, ﬂocks of about a hundred Austra»
lian Brolgas birds gather for a ceremonial dance.
Having found a large enough clearing they form a
circle. Their leader takes up a position in the
centre and then performs a variety of weird move
ments. Sometimes he falls to the ground as if
dead. The other birds copy him. After a time they
march off in pairs on a grand parade.

The lyre bird of Australia is known as the bird
of a thousand voices for it Can mimic any noise to
perfection. Frequently during its own song it

August 1956

For the second rescue, much more hazardous,
the three men were roped together. On the last
part of their rescue journey they encountered a
climb of 100 feet over sheer rock.

 

Photo by courtesy of L. Oakley, Press Photographer
BROOD IN A TIGHT CORNER
When a brood of ducklings were born in a narrow drain the
RSPCA lnspector could not reach them but Terry Jeacock
cheerfully volunteered and is seen ‘coming to the surface’
with the last of the ducklings all of whom were rescued.
This is not the ﬁrst time Terry has befriended animals and
birds. A year ago he looked after a budgerigar whom he
found being stoned by three boys

 

 

mimics the chopping of trees, sawing of logs, bark!
ing of dogs, clucking of hens or the whistle of a
train.

It imitates the calls of other birds so well that
even the birds are fooled.

 

 

MARKET IMPROVEMENTS

Latest market improvements achieved by RSPCA
efforts are: - A
Congleton, straw bedding provided for young
calves.

Denbigh (Smithﬁeld Market), much needed
shelter provided for pigs.

Chichester and Exeter, children prohibited
from entering the markets.

Newark, a new drinking trough installed.

Hawes (Yorkshire), calves now bedded down
on straw.

Unusual friends
—photo taken
by Mr ]. Norrish
and sent by Mrs
Carter-Ruck,
Gerrards Cross
aux hon sec

   

 

 

 




 

August 1956

THEANIMALWORLD ' 91

 

 

HORSES TO EUROPE
Minimum Values Increased

An Order welcomed by the RSPCA came into
effect on June 4. It is the Exportation of Horses
(Minimum Values) Order, 1956, and it increases
the value below which certain categories of
horses may not be exported to European
countries.

The old and new minimum values are:

Old N ew
Heavy draft horse £80 £105
Vanner, mule or jennet £75 £100
Ass £10 £20

The ‘old’ values quoted in the foregoing list
were introduced on May 1, 1950. They had not
previously been altered since they were laid down
in the Exportation of Horses Act, 1937, as £25,
£20 and £3, ﬁgures that bore no relation to
reality with the alteration in the value of money
after 1945.

The low minimums existing before 1950 meant
that the sorriest animals could be legally exported
to the Continent, and the trade was a source of
untold suffering. The RSPCA campaigned for an
increase in the ﬁgures, and has advocated that
they should be changed with the lowering value
of the £. By the maintenance of reasonable
minimum values the intention of the exportation
orders is respected: decrepit horses are not con/
demned to the pain and discomfort of a sea
journey.

 

 

Photo by COUrtesy of Public Relations Department, Tanganyika

This picture was sent by Mrs lsobel Slater, Organizing
Secretary of the RSPCA Tanganyika Branch, and shows the
Governor of Tanganyika, Sir Edward Twining speaking at
the foundation-stone laying ceremony for the Karimjee
RSPCA Tanganyika Headquarters at Dar-es-Salaam. As we
IOOk at the picture Mrs Slater is seen on the left of the
GOVernor and next to Mrs Slater is Mr Yusufali Karimjee
.l'Vanhee, who donated £3,500 to the building fund. Looking
at the picture again, Lady Twining is seen on the right of
the Governor

Heroes’ Corner

RESCUE ROPE STARTED
LANDSLIDE

At one point in the rescue of a dog from the dis;
used quarry face at Cwmavon Road, Port Talbot,
the rope on which Inspector Punter was being
lowered started a small landslide.

The Inspector, with his full weight hanging on
the rope, had to shield his head and face with his
arms and hands. The top part of his body was
badly battered; a sharp rock cut through his
clothes and his ﬂesh. He was bleeding profusely,
whichadded to the dangers of the rescue.

Nevertheless, he asked to be lowered still
further, but there was another much heavier fall
of rock and shale, causing him to twist on the
rope; rock fell on his neck and shoulders and
caused him to have a blackout for about ten
minutes. He lost all sense of feeling and the
helpers tried to get him back.

He was in a terrible state, his uniform
trousers were ripped and blood—stained, his
shirt and coat torn, and the gashes on his
body were stinging with sand and dirt.

A police sergeant tried to persuade him to give
up, but Inspector Punter continued, finally
reaching the dog, whom he sent the 120 feet to
safety on another rope.

Return Journey

The cliff is about 800 feet high, and the dog, a
spaniel, was trapped on a recent fall of rock
300 feet up the sheer face. Steepness, loose gravel
and shale made access from the foot of the cliff
impossible.

The Inspector and police ofﬁcers helping him
had therefore to slither to a point about 500 feet
above the roadway. They worked themselves
along till they were about 120 feet above the dog.

Other help had been enlisted by this time, and
a length of rope measuring 130 feet was attached
to the Inspector, who volunteered to be lowered.
The Inspector began the descent by dangling—
free of the cliff face—50 feet below the ledge
from which his helpers were playing out the rope.

It was at this point that his rope began causing
landslides.

Even after sending the dog to safety the In,
spector’s troubles were not over. Hauled to a

- certain point, he could go no farther because of

displaced rocks. The four men hauling the rope
could not do much, as the tension on the rope
was crushing the Inspector’s ribs.

He asked to be lowered again to the point
where the dog had been. He rested there, and
was so weak that he could do very little to help
himself. At last, he made a superhuman effort,
swung across the cliff and reached the top by
another route.

 




 

 

August 1956

THEANIMALWORLD 93

 

Parliamentary
News

ROAD TRAFFIC BILL

This measure has now passed through all stages

in the House of Commons, with the inclusion of '

the clause giving local authorities power to make
an Order designating certain roads where dogs
must be on a lead. The Bill is now awaiting
Committee Stage in the House of Lords.

QUESTIONS
Rabbit Clearance (Burning of Scrub)

CAPTAIN KERBY asked the Minister of Agri—
culture, Fisheries and Food what steps he prov
poses to take to prevent a repetition of the
destruction of nesting nightingales, wild duck and
other birds, in the razing by ﬁre of 100 acres of
heath and gorse land in Sussex recently; and if
he will reprimand the agricultural executive com~
mittee ofﬁcials responsible; and if he will now
instruct his rabbit squads that no areas of
countryside are to be deliberately ﬁred in future.

MR AMORY: The clearance of scrub on common—
land is not undertaken by county agricultural
executive committees without the Ministry’s con»
sent. The East Sussex ABC was recently author~
ized to burn eighteen acres of scrub on The Hide,
Arlington, and scrub was also burnt on a further
thirty—two acres of that area owned by the
Forestry Commission in order to clear rabbits
which would have become a serious source of re,
infestation of neighbouring farms. Where, as in
this case other measures are impossible, burning
is necessary; but instructions have now been
given to AECs that burning should not be done
during the nesting season.

Horses (Export)

CAPTAIN KERBY asked the Minister of Agri’
culture, Fisheries and Food whether, in view of the
conditions attendant on the re~export of live

BRANCH NEWS

 

(Where a function is organized for the raising of funds, we‘

give, wherever possible, the place where held, the type of
function, and the name of the organizer or organizers, followed
by the sum raised. The letters AM indicate annual meetlng;
they are followed by the word branch, or the name of the
auxiliary, and an indication, where possible, of .the person
presiding and of officials presenting reports; other information
IS given as necessary.)

Berkshire—Newbury' and District ‘Angleham’, home of
Mlss Ingledew, fete, Mrs Waites (branch hon sec) and Mrs
Laycock (assistant branch hon sec). ,
BI'lstol and District AM (branch). The Mayor of BI‘lstO1
(Ald G. A. Watson Allan) moved the adoption of the reports.
Among those present were Miss E. L. Osborne, branch
president; Lady Mayoress; Mrs Desborough Walford,
council member; and Mr C. Croxton-Smith, branch hon

horses to the Continent from Eire for the horse;
meat trade, he will make it illegal for horses to be 4
exported to Eire in order to be rerexported alive
to the Continent; and if he will make it a con—
dition of all live horse exports to Eire that the
consignee is subject to an export licence and gives
a guarantee that such horses will not be sold for
slaughter in Europe and that any breaking of such
a guarantee will be punishable by ﬁnes and can—
cellation of the offender’s export licence.

MR AMORY: I have no evidence of any trafﬁc in
horses from this country to the Irish Republic
for revexport to the Continent for slaughter.
Horses valued at less than £100 cannot be er
ported to the Irish Republic without a Board of
Trade export licence, and I do not think there is
any need for the further measures suggested by
my hon and gallant Friend. However, if he is
aware of any trade of this nature and sends me
particulars, I will certainly look into the matter,
in consultations with my right hon Friend the

President of the Board of Trade.

 

LONDON ESSAY COMPETITION

By winning the principal prize in the junior
section of the RSPCA London Essay Coma
petition, Margaret Stone, aged 10, earned for her
school (Torridon JM Primary School, Hazelbank
Road, Catford, SE6) the distinction of being the
ﬁrst school to win such a prize in two successive
years, at least since the competition was revived
by the RSPCA in 1948.

Children aged 8 to 11 inclusive enter the junior
section. The principal winner in the senior
section (children aged 12 and over) was Robert
Gould, aged 13, of Archbishop Temple’s Second,
ary School, 202 Lambeth Road, SE1.

Essays were written by pupils in 489 LCC
schools. Runnersaup prizes are given generally to
two children in every group of roughly 100. First
runnerSvup, numbering 1,056, received book
prizes, and second runners’up, numbering 1,009,
received merit certiﬁcates.

 

see. Mr D. A. L. Camm was guest speaker.

Bromley and District (Kent) A pet show was held at St Mary
Cray Primary School. Senior Inspector Coles acted as judge.
Buckinghamshire ‘Bletchley, rummage sale, Miss P. Moores,
£30. -

 

Flossie, saved from destruction and adopted by Mrs
Little, Lee-on-Solent aux hon sec

 




 

94 THEANIMALWORLD

August 1956

 

 

 

; mam. ‘ '

These two Tilbury children, josephine Crofton, ten, and

Raymond Radsill, nine, are photographed after receiving

RSPCA Animal Defender Kindness to Animals medals at

school. Spot, the dog in the picture, has been awarded an
RSPCA collar

Coventry and District AM (branch). Among those present:
the Lord Mayor of Coventry, Ald W. 1. Thomson; the Lady
Mayoress; Col R. J. Cash, branch president and chairman;
and Mr Roland Ampleford, who was the guest speaker.
Devon—North llfracombe, ﬁlm show, Mrs M. du Sautoy
Newby.

Doncaster and District Branch The Mayor of Doncaster,
Ald A. E. Hall, presented Charles Buckley and Brian Bray
with books at the Gaumont Cinema, Doncaster. The two
boys rescued a swan. A talk was given by the Chief Constable
of Doncaster. Afterwards Dickie Valentine entertained the
young audience.

Durham—South, and North Yorkshire Aycliffe, dance, Mrs
Allinson (Shildon aux hon sec) and Mr R. Wilson (Newton
Aycliﬁ"e aux hon sec), £13 11s. 6d.

Essex—North-West AM (branch). Reports submitted by
Mrs M. Sharp, branch hon sec, Mr N. B. Wright, hon treas,
and Inspector Cooper.

Glamorgan—Mid and Port Talbot AM (branch). Miss
Rees, branch hon sec, presented her report. Mr R. Ample-
ford was the guest speaker.

Hampshire—New Forest AM (branch). The Hon Mrs
Brownlow (branch president), Councillor W. T. Boots
(branch hon sec), who attended with Mrs Boots; guest
speaker, Mr C. R. Davies, branch organizer.
Hampshire—South and Portsmouth Jimmy, a two-year-old
dog belonging to Mrs S. H. Little, aux hon sec for Lee-on—
Solent, has collected more than £13.

Hertfordshire—West Harpenden, sale, Mrs Marshall Gott
(branch chairman), £363.

Kent—Ashford and District AM (branch). Guest speaker,
Mr Davies; collection £10.

Kent—Canterbury and District Canterbury, jumble sale,
Inspector Rhodes and committee members, £21 95.
Kent—Dover and District T ilmanstone, jumble sale, Mrs
Roberts, aux hon sec, £14 145. 4d.

Kent—Folkestone and District Entertainment by ‘The
Kentonians’, Mr and Mrs Whiting, £17 10s.
Kent—Medway Towns Miss Shinkwin opened her home,
‘The Old House’, Boley Hill, to the public and raised £11;
Hoo, concert, Mrs Wynn (aux hon sec Frindsbury) and Mrs
Vidgeon (aux hon sec H00), £5 63.; AM (branch), guest
speaker Mr Allan Joiner. .

Kent—Mid, Maidstone and District Maidstone, jumble
sale, £24.

Kent—North-West AM (branch). Mr W. Honess, branch
chairman, Mrs W. Honess, branch hon sec, Mr H. Graver,
branch hon treas; the guest speaker was Mrs M. R. Dowdell,
council member.

*

Bexleyheath, garden party, Miss M. James (Bexley
Borough and UD Crayford aux hon sec), £15 15s. 6d.
Lincolnshire—Mid and Lincoln AM (branch). Mrs D.
Bergne-Coupland, branch chairman, read the Inspector’s
report; His Honour Judge R. S. Shove (President) attended.
Bring and buy sale at the meeting raised £16. ~
London South-East Woolwich, exhibition, Mrs Card
(branch hen sec).

Manchester and Salford Northenden, Whitsuntide collec-
tion, Mrs M. Johnson (aux hon sec), £9 12s. 6d.
Merioneth Barmouth, whist drive, Miss G. Fisher, £9.
Montgomery AM (branch). The Hon Ralph Beaumont,
branch president, Mr R. Ashford Davies, branch hon treas,
and Mrs Maidie Andrew Hughes, branch hon sec. Mr Allan
Joiner was the guest speaker.
Norfolk—~Mid and Norwich AM (branch). Guest speaker,
Dr R. F. Rattray, council member.
Norfolk West A pet show was held at the Theatre Royal
Cinema, Kings Lynn, and Mrs Robson, aux hon sec, pre-
sented the prizes. Chief Inspector Morrison judged the pets.
Nottingham and Notts Retford, jumble sale, Mrs Hurst
(aux hon sec), £26 9s.
Pembrokeshire, North and Mid Fishguard, jumble sale,
Mrs Birch, £44 63. 4d.; Goodwick, jumble sale, Miss Holmes
(aux hon sec) and Mrs Jamieson, £14 35. 161.; Broad Haven,
annual donations collected by Miss R. L. Rogers, aux hon
sec, £16.
Peterborough and District Leverington, bowls tournament
:gld garden fete, Mrs Blanchﬂower, Wisbech aux hon sec,
5.
Richmond and District AM (branch). The Mayor of Rich-
mond (Councillor A. Brock), Miss Walthew (branch hon
sec), and Major R. W. Williams (branch hon treas). Among
those present: Mrs Williams (branch chairman), Mrs
Dowdell (council member), the Mayoress (Mrs Brock),
Mrs Reynolds Veitch (branch president), and Mr D. A. L.
Camm.
Sheffield Open day and coffee morning, Mrs Collier
(branch hon sec), £25.
Streatham, Brixton and Clapham Clapham, jumble sale,
Mrs Searle (Clapham South aux hon sec) and Mrs Williams
(Clapham North aux hon sec), £50. At a Streatham fete in
Rosa Basset School, Mr and Mrs Marshall (Streatham Hill
aux hon sec), with Mrs Lee (council member and hon sec
Billham and Tooting branch), had an RSPCA propaganda
ta e.
Sussex—Mid, and Eastbourne Pevensey, whist drive, Mrs
Wenham, £6 14s. 6d.

*

AM (branch). Guest speaker, Dr Charles A. H. Franklyn.
Among those present were Miss Ida Middleton (branch hon
sec), Lady Tollemache, and Mrs M. R. Dowdell (council
member) accompanied by Mr Dowdell.

Horam, whist drive, Mrs Burgess, £2.
Warrington and District Newton-le-Willows, bring and buy
sale, £20.
West Bromwich and Wednesbury West Bromwich, jumble
sale, Mrs F. Haywood (branch hon sec), £35 5s. 7d.
Wiltshire—North Wroughton, Beetle Drive, Women’s
Section (Toc H), £6 65.

Nellie, a
pensioner at
Martley Rectory
—from a picture
painted by
‘Teenie’ Lloyd
when she was

l2 years old

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

August 1956

FORTHCOMING FLAG DAYS

At the time of going to press on June 29, we have been
informed that the following Flag Day collections are to be
held in the near future:

Abersoch Sat, Aug. 11
Bangor Sat, ' Aug. 11
Barnstaple Fri., Aug. 3
Barton on Humber Sat, Aug. 25
Birchington (Kent) Sat, Sept. 1
Bristol Sat, Aug. 18
Caernarvon Sat, Aug. 11
Chapel—en—le—Frith Fri. 8L Sat,
Sept. 28 and 29
Chester Sat, Aug. 11
Clitheroe Sat, Aug. 4
Dartmouth Fri., Aug. 31
Deeside Sat, Sept. 1
Denbigh Wed., Aug. 8
Dorset County Sat, Aug. 4
Downham Market Fri., Sept. 28
Driﬂield (Yorks) Sat, Aug. 18
Fishguard Sat, Aug. 25
Gainsborough Sat, Aug. 18
Gloucester Sat, Sept. 29
Gt Yarmouth and Gorleston Sat, Aug. 4
Harrogate Sat, Aug. 11
Hertford Borough Sat, Sept. 1
Hexham Sat, Aug. 11
Hunstanton . Wed, Aug. 1
Kings Lynn Tues., Aug. 14
Lincoln City Sat, Sept. 1
Llandudno Sat, Aug. 11
Lymington Sat, Aug. 11
Lynton & Lynmouth (N. Devon) Thur.,Aug. 16

THEANIMALWORLD 95

Maidstone Tues., Aug. 7
Milford Haven (Pembrokeshire) .. Sat, Aug. 4
Montgomery Sat, Aug. 18

New Forest Rural ”District” Sat, Sept. 29
Northumberland—West (Rural Areas) Sat, Aug. 25

Norton (Yorkshire) Sat, Sept. 29
Oxhey (Herts) Sat, Sept. 8
Penmaenmawr Sat, Aug. 11
Reading, Sat, Sept. 1
Retford (Nottinghamshire) Sat, Aug. 18
Rhondda Valley . Fri. St Sat ,
Sept. 7 and 8
Rhyl Sat, Sept. 1
Romsey Sat, Aug. 25
St Mawes (Cornwall) Tues. &Wed.,
Aug. 7 and 8
Saltburn (Yorks) Sat, Aug. 11
Southendron—Sea Sat, Aug. 11
Stoke—on-Trent .. Fri. & Sat,

Aug. 24 and 25

Stokesley (near Middlesbrough)... Thur., Sept. 20

Stourbridge . . . . . . . Sat, Sept. 8
Strood (Kent) Sat, Sept. 8
Stroud Sat, Aug. 4
Thornabyvon—Tees Sat, Aug. 18
Truro Wed.,Aug. 15
Walkern (Herts) Sat, Aug. 4
Walsall Sat, Sept. 22
Watford Sat, Sept. 8
Woolacombe (N. Devon) Sat, Aug. 11

An appeal is made to any readers who are able to assist
these collections to communicate with the local hon secre—
tary, whose name and address will gladly be supplied by
RSPCA Headquarters.

 

UP AND DOW

On Whit Sunday members of the Liverpool
Branch Animal Rescue Service were called upon
to descend 40 ft into the Alexandra Dock to I'€Sv
cue a dog in the morning and in the evening
ascended 85 ft up a church roof and steeple to
rescue a pigeon trapped in the slates.

 

  

of: ﬁt»
...-.Nu¢ v

Rl VAL COLLECTORS .
A novel collecting box constructed for the Caernarvonshlre
Llandudno and District Branch met with immediate success.
ﬁgures on the top represent different breeds, and as each

as a separate compartment for collections there is friendly
r lValry between them. In a short period including Whitsun
'0 tOtal of ill 9 6s. was raised by the box, the Scottie collecting
the largest amount

 

DEATH TRAP TO SWANS

Two swans having been seriously injured as a
result of crashing into telephone Wires at Lever
Bridge, near Bolton, Inspector Faulkner ap—
proached the Telephone Works Department at
Blackburn, with the result that the wires in
question have now been corked. The injured
birds were nursed back to health by the Inspector
and released when ﬁt to ﬂy.

COLLECTIONS

(We give wherever possible the place at which the collection was
held and the names of the organizer or organizers)

FLAG DAYS

Correction: Shanklin, IW, Mrs Buxton, aux hon sec, £36 45. 6d.
Uppingham (Rutland), Mrs J. Saunders, aux hon sec,
£10 133.; Tiverton, Miss S. Arthur, £63 55.; Farnworth,
Lancs, Mrs B. Marshall, aux hon sec, £108 25. 7d.; Reedham,
Norfolk, Mrs M. S. Chaplin, aux hon sec, £8 45. 7d.;
Fleet, Hants, Mrs Fosbery, aux hon sec, £84 135. 9d.;
Crookham, Hants, Mrs Banks ‘Martin, aux hon sec,
£27 75. 1d.; Sittingbourne, Mrs M. Draper, division hon sec,
£182 145. 11d.; Pudsey, Mrs K. M. Mitchell, aux hon sec,
£72 85. 8d.; Durham City, Miss G. S. Wilkinson, branch
hon sec, £110 25. 8d.; Teignmouth and Shaldon, Mrs
M. A. Cracknell, aux hon sec, £69 95. 9d.; Thrapston,
Mrs R. W. Coles, aux hon sec, £13 105. 4d.; Royston
(near Barnsley), Mrs D. Higgs, aux hon sec, £23 105. 2d.;
Oakham, Miss S. Whadcoat, aux hon sec, £29 45.; Wake-
ﬁeld, Mrs M. Sunderland, branch hon sec, £145 15. 10d.
(amended result); Letchworth, Mrs G. M. Wood, aux hon
sec, £104 115. 1d.; Wisbech, £57 65. 6d.; Shepton Mallet,
Miss K. Burnell, aux hon sec, £66 185.; Puckeridge, Mrs
D. E. Mills, aux hon sec, £18 45. 6d.; Knebworth, Mrs Bell,

 

 

 




 

96 THEANIMALWORLD

August 1956

 

aux hon sec, £23 165. 961.; Urmston, Eccles and Stretford,
Mr J. Green, branch sec, £73 05. 161.; Brinsworth, Mrs
Hubbard, aux hon sec, and Mrs Turner, £11 105.; Catcliﬂe,
Mrs Brelsford, co aux hon sec, £8 45.; Treeton, Mrs Lowe,
aux hon sec, £5 105.; Sunnyside, Mrs Hanton, £4; Wickers—
ley, Mrs W. Peck, aux hon sec, £10; Dinnington, Mrs
Haynes, aux hon sec, £42; Monmouth, Miss C. E. Probyn,
aux hon sec, £36 145. 661.; Ware, Miss D. Wilsher, aux hon
sec, £50; Datchet, Mrs Wynne—Davies, aux hon sec,
£20 135. 861.; Doncaster branch (West Riding area), Mr J.
Morrison, branch hon sec, £48 155. 261.; Bury St Edmunds,
Mrs N. H. Francis, branch hon sec, £73; Sawbridgeworth,
Mrs B. Agarwala, aux hon sec, £26 125.; Hormead, Mrs P.
Ginn, aux hon sec, £6 45. 661.; Brigg, Mrs M. E. Phillips,
aux hon sec, £29; Swindon, Miss R. Barlow, aux hon sec,
£285 55. 861.; Halifax, Mr R. A. Crosby, branch chairman,
and Mr C. S. Horner, branch hon sec, £385 55. 161.; My
mouth, £120 115. 761.; South Bank and Normanby, Mrs
J. H. Hart, branch hon sec, £37; Mexborough, Mrs S.
Bayley, aux hon sec, £53 35. 161.; Bolton upon Darne, Mrs
Huntington, £7 135. 461.; Goldthorpe, Mrs Adams, £9 95. 761.;
Thurnscoe, Mrs Graham, aux hon sec, £23 105. 361.;
Fordingbridge, £23 35.; Braughing, Mrs F. 1. Rogers, aux
hon sec, £6 55.; Buntingford, Mrs G. S. Morris, £12 115.;
Merthyr Tydﬁl, Miss G. Lewis, branch co hon sec,
£89 05. 7d.; Llanwern, Mrs Snowball, aux hon sec, £1 95.;
Alton, Mrs H. Tollemache, branch hon sec, £66 55.;
Lancaster, Mrs I’anson, div hon sec, £107; Grimsby, Mrs
Bainborough, branch hon sec, £101 05. 861.; Stockport,
Mrs M. Cooper, branch sec, £202 45. 1061.; Richings Park,
Mrs Kimberlin, aux hon sec, £23 105. 861.

HOUSE—TO—HOUSE
Portchester, Mrs Carter, £50 125. 661.; Grimsby, Mrs

.Clapham, branch hon sec, £53 05. 461.; Guildford,,Mrs ,

Merritt, aux hon sec, £88 05. 361.; Haslemere, Mrs Wilkins,
aux hon sec, £72 65. 661.; Croydon, Miss Culling, £5 145. 161.;
Shere, Miss Hyde, aux hon sec, £5 55. 3d.; Crawley, Mr
Jeffery, aux hon sec, £65 135. 7d.; Grantham, Miss Pim,
branch hon sec, £72 15.; Benson (Oxford), Mrs Hardcastle,
£15 55.; Horley, Mrs Gibson, aux hon sec, £61 115. 1d.;
Presteigne, Mrs King, aux hon sec, £12 185. 961.; Dormans—
land, Mrs Forsyth, aux hon sec, £25 115. 6d.; Lavant,
Mrs D. E. Riddle, £3 35.; Harold Wood, Mrs Campbell,
aux hon sec, and Mr and Mrs Jones, £82 155. 261.; Fish
guard, Mr A. F. Boucher, branch hon sec, £26 115.

LARGE BEGGING DOG BOX

Southampton, Cooperative Stores, £20 15. 6d.; Suffolk
Show, £20.

Obituary .

With sincere regret we report the deaths of : The
Rt Hon Lord Dynevor, President, Carmarthen—
shire branch; Mrs Saunders, hon sec, Wolfs
Castle auxiliary; Mr C. H. Woollam, member of
Shropshire branch committee; Mrs E. Cound, a
former aux hon sec; and of these supporters:

Miss D. Corﬁeld, Mr G. E. Pashley.

 

 

 

 

TEMPLE COX CAPTIVE
BOLT SLAUGHTERING
GUNS

Specially recommended and used by the RSPCA

THREE MODELS—ALL SILENT IN
ACTION

‘UNIVERSAL’ for all animals
‘SMALLS’ for all small animals
‘MARK 6’ for all animals. Designed for heavy

use in large Abattoirs and Freezing Works

TEMPLE COX DEVELOPMENT CO. LTD
HIGH STREET, BROMLEY, KENT

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

A FEW USEFUL HINTS

FLAG DAYS. Collectors sometimes have great difficulty in
controlling emblems when there is a high wind. When a col-
lection takes place in such conditions, it is suggested the
emblems could be placed in cellophane bags, and placed in
the tray—thus the emblems can easily be seen and there is
no danger of the collector being diverted from his or her
efforts as a result of retrieving emblems blown from the
tray. A shopkeeper interested might donate the bags if the
predicament of the collector is' noticed—otherwise, it is wise
to purchase a few for the purpose mentioned. Headquarters
cannot provide such bags as part of flag day equipment.

OUTDOOR DISPLAYS AND SHOWS. Difficulty is often
experienced when such displays are arranged at Agricul-
tural and similar shows, particularly when there is a strong
wind which blows leaﬂets in all directions. By running two
lengths of string, about two inches apart, across a table,
firmly securing each end with a brad, and then at regular

intervals tacking the string to the table, it is possible to place
the leaflets under the double row of string which holds them
ﬁrmly and neatly in position.

COLLECTING BOXES AT HOLIDAY RESORTS. It is the
custom of one Branch supporter, on Saturday evenings, to
visit hotels at a popular seaside resort during the season .
and with the permission of the Manager to take the
RSPCA collecting box from the bar counter and to pass it
amongst the visitors seated at the tables. By so doing a very
considerable amount of money is raised as few people refuse

' to contribute. It is, of course, necessary to have the co-

operation and consent of the Manager of the hotel before
such a collection is possible. After the box has completed the
rounds, it is returned to the bar counter and the collector
moves on to the next hotel. It is estimated that the boxes so
used raised four times as much as a box which is just left on
the counter.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

R. S.P. C.A.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

FORM OF BEQUEST FOR NATIONAL WORK

TO those benevolent individuals who may wish to become benefactors by Will to this
Society, the following form is respectfully suggested:—

‘I bequeath to the ROYAL SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS, founded
1824, for the general purposes of that Society, the sum of £....; ..................................... , free
of death duty and the receipt of the Treasurer for the time being of the said Society shall
be sufﬁcient discharge for such legacy.’ (If it should be desired that the legacy should be exv
pended on some particular phase of the Society’s work, a direction to this effect may be added to the

form of bequest.)

 

NOTE
By the Act of William IV and I Victoria, cap. 26, all Wills or Codicils must be in Writing signed by the

Testator, and attested by two witnesses in the presence of the Testator and of each other.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Manufacturers of

@MEE‘ORMS

HOBSON & SONS CAPS HELMETS LEATHER

BELTS POUCHES etc. etc
(LONDON) LTD
Gold and Silver Laces

Embroideries of every
description for ALL
UNIFORMED SERVICES

All inquiries to

154-164 TOOLEY STREET

LONDON BRIDGE S.E.1 PATTERNS OF CLOTH
and ESTIMATES

Telephone: HOP 2476 (4 lines) will be forwarded free of charge
Telegrams: HOBSON, BOROH, LONDON

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




ATTRACTIVE ANIMAL STUDIES

CHRISTMAS CARDS AND CALENDARS

SOLD IN AID OF THE RSPCA

This study shows (actual size) one of the Christmas card pictures. ALL STUDIES IN

For fully illustrated pamphlet, please complete the form below and send to: BLACK AND WHITE ONLY
RSPCA, 105 JERMYN STREET, LONDON, SW1 *

 

-——-—--————-—-—-—--- cm HERE——..-------_______-_____ CARDS

2/6 per packet of six

(Please complete in block letters and afﬁx 2d. stamp, which will
assorted

save RSPCA expense)
Two or more packets

Mr ordered, price 2/3 per packet

NAME Mrs

 

CALENDARS

 

n-ooonnooaooon-o-n.... ololon'lno-u-cclottu

2/- each, or 21 /- per dozen

.........o-n...o.cn-guc-c...-.-...--..-..-......o.o-

(Suitable envelopes for cards .
and calendars supplied free)

.....o--oooou...nun-unn-.oooo-uoooootc-o......n.........-....-..o...oo.---o....on...

———CUTHERE-————-—-——-———

 

 

Printed by Shenval Press, Simson Shand Ltd, London, Hertford and Harlow, and
published by Arthur W. Moss for the RSPCA at 105 Jermyn Street, London, SW1

 




