 

 

February 1953

THE‘ANIMAL' WORLD 21

 

OBITUARY

.With sincere regret we report the folloWing
deaths:

Mrs M Clover, former hon secretary and a
supporter of the Society, Mr R. Preston Donaldv
son, MBOU, secretary of the Royal Society for
the Protection of Birds, Mrs E. L. Gardener,
former hon secretary of Kent—Canterbury

OFF COURSE

This gannet, unable to fly when found at
Clenchwarton, three or four miles inland
from the Wash, was taken by Senior
lnspector ’Morrison to the Scolt Head
Bird Sanctuary, Brancaster Staithes

[Picture by courtesy of E. E. Swain, Hunstanton

BRANCH NEWS

Ashton, Stalybridge, Mossley, Hyde, Glossop and District
A whist drive organized at St John’s Church Hall, Ashton,

- by Mrs B1andwood, the vicar’ 5 wife, and Mrs W. S. Scho-

geld, joint branch hon secretary, raised £10 13s. for branch
unds.

Mrs F. A. Rawson Schoﬁeld, joint branch hon secretary,

with the help of Inspector Blaylock recently examined Girl
Guides, Boy Scouts and St John Ambulance Brigade members
for proﬁciency certiﬁcates and badges as friends of animals.
Balham and Tooting Mrs Granville Stott, hon secretary of
Wandsworth Common Auxiliary, reports a bring and buy
sale held by kind permission of Mrs Sewards in her kinder-
garten school in the Wandsworth Common Auxiliary raised
£12 for branch funds. .
Birmingham and District The branch held its Annual
Service of Intercession for Animals and Birds, on Sunday,
November 30, at St Martin’s, Birmingham, Parish Church.
by kind permission of the Rector, Canon Bryan Green.

The address was given by Lord Elton who stressed the
urgent need for action both 1n and out of Parliament, to end
the cruelty of the gin trap.

The Lord Mayor and Lady Mayoress of Birmingham
(alderman W. T. Bowen and Mrs Bowen) attended, the Lord
Mayor reading the First Lesson, and Mr H. E. Ikin, (a mem-
ber of the Birmingham branch committee) reading the
Second Lesson, as the Chairman, Mr A. Parton Smith, was
prevented from attending through illness.

The service was conducted by the Rev G. E. Potts in the
absence of the Rector in Canada, the collection was kindly
given to the branch funds.

In spite of the adverse weather conditions, a very large
congregation attended.

Blackpool Awards for observing the RSPCA Horses
Charter were presented to winners by Mr A. F. Warner,
branch chairman. Mr John Harrison, chairman of the Landau
Owners’ Association, thanked the RSPCA for its encourage-
ment. Mr Warner presented to Keith Parkinson an RSPCA
certiﬁcate for rescuing a cat from a telegraph pole.

Bromley and District (Kent) A bring and buy sale organized

by Mrs Grimshaw, Petts Wood Auxiliary hon secretary, at

her home, raised £200 6s. 4d. for branch funds.

Mrs Gibbs, Biggin Hill Auxiliary hon secretary, held a
jumble sale and bazaar and raised £22 for branch funds.'Mrs
W. Moore and Mrs Appleby took charge of the organization

Branch, Mr R. (Slave—Saunders, CBE, MRCVS,
former member of the RSPCA Council and hon
secretary of the Exeter Branch, Mrs Prichard,
hon secretary of Iver auxiliary, Mr R. D. Oxen?
ford, hon treasurer of Sidmouth auxiliary fOr
seventeen years, and the following supporters!
Miss A. M. Beeston, Miss Jane Brooks, Mr R.
Dawson and Mr H. J. Gittens.

 

of the sale 1n the absence of Mrs Gibbs who was ill at the time.
Burton-o n-Trent Mrs Simpkin, Netherseal Auxiliary hon
secretary, organized a competition that raised over £136 for
branch funds. Mr and Mrs Bird, branch hon treasurer and
hon secretary, were present when the winners were decided
upon and other branch workers attended.

Cardiff and District Misses M. M. and B. B. Davis had the
use of the Penarth Gas Showrooms, which were placed at
their disposal by the courtesy of the Wales Gas Board, and
displayed Christmas presents which they had made. This
effort raised £50 for branch funds. The cheque was handed
to the branch hon secretary at the Cardiff sale of work which
was opened by the Deputy Lady Mayoress, Councillor
Mrs Miriam Bryant. At the time of going. to press, Miss
Pout, branch hon secretary, reports that £130 had been
raised. After the opening of the sale a book was presented to
Mr Wilsher for his courage in rescuing a dog from a ﬂooded
river.

Carmarthenshire Mr A. C. Mitchell, branch hon secretary,
reports that a dance organized by Mr A. Lambeth raised
£27 for branch funds.

A collection taken at the Lyric Cinema, Carmarthen
following the showing of an RSPCA ﬁlm, amounted to
almost £50.

Mr A. C. Mitchell also reports that Miss G. David,
auxiliary hon secretary for Laugharne had a door-to— door
gollgction and whist drive and raised £25 35. for branch
un 3
Coventry and District Mrs D’Arcy Tremlett, Nuneaton
auxiliary hon secretary, reports that Miss K. Wright organ-
ized a jumble sale in Nuneaton and raised £31 1s. 3d. for
branch funds.

Crowborough, East Grinsted and District A film show for
Animal Defenders and their friends was organized by the
local hon secretaries at Crowborough, Sussex early in De-
cember. The ﬁlm, ‘Witness for the Defenceless’, which deals
with various aspects of the work of the RSPCA in ﬁghting
against cruelty to animals, such as to those in circuses,

in markets, to caged birds and many others, held the rapt
attention of 160 schoolchildren. Inspector Pennell gave a'
short talk, and answered questions put to him by some of
the children. Afterwards a number of new Animal Defenders
were enrolled. (Report received from Major Ogden, branch
hon secretary.) ,

 

 

 

 




 

“IL—E4

 

ANIMAEH

THE OFFICIAL MAGAZINE OF

Vol XLVIII ,No 2

New Series

FEBRUARY I 953

EWORLD

THE RSPCA

PRICE THREEPENCE
4s. 6d. per annum. Post paid

HORSES FROM IRELAND
RSPCA Draws Attention to Suffering

 

Following investigations made by the RSPCA
Inspector in Birkenhead, the Society was able to
have the bones from certain horses shown by
Dr Somerville Hastings in the House of Comv
, mons. Next day the Press reported:

Dr S. Hastings asked the Prime Minister in the
House of Commons yesterday if he was aware
that, in spite of the redistribution of Ministerial
functions relating to cruelty 'connected with the
slaughter of horses, there Was continued evidence
of the absence of effective or coaordinated treat,
ment of the problem. He also asked if Mr Chur’
chill’s attention had been called to the arrival at
Birkenhead on November 19 of some horSes
which were found to be suffering from oldvstand’
ing and painful lesions rendering them unﬁt for
movement.

Was Mr Churchill aware that the terms of
reference of a committee appointed by the Min;
istry of Food and the Secretary for Scotland pre'
vented any consideration of questions relating to
cruelty in the transport of horses to slaughtera
houses? Would he, therefore, review the co—
ordination and application of Ministerial func’
tions in this field?

Mr Churchill: The terms of reference of the

BONES FROM SUFFERING
HORSES SHOWN IN HOUSE
OF COMMONS

As a means of discovering the
cause of lameness in the horses,
who were given a humane end on
veterinary advice, the bones were
boiled clean and sent to RSPCA
Headquarters, where the veteri-
nary opinion was: ‘They show
extensive bony arthritis, involv-
ing the knee joint and the pastern
bones, long and short. The bone
enlargements at the latter sites
are usually termed ring bone.’

committee referred to cruelty and the slaughter
of horses. Cruelty in transit is dealt with by the
Ministry of Agriculture and effective orders exist
for preventing the suffering of horses in transit.
The horses referred to were detained on landing
and were destroyed because they were unfit for
travel. They came from the Irish Republic and
their attention was drawn to the case. I am sure
this will receive due attention by a State which is
such a great lover of horses.

Dr Hastings: Does he appreciate the suffering
of these poor, wretched beasts? Has he seen the
bones of one of these horses which was found to
be suffering from severe arthritis? Cannot some;
thing be done to prevent this dreadful cruelty?

Mr Churchill: No opportunity should be lost
in stimulating the scrutiny paid to all aspects of
horse transit and horse slaughter. We will do our
utmost—-—there is only one view in this House-—
by example and precept to improve present con;
ditions.

VIEWS OF THE RSPCA *

The RSPCA has for a long time been concerned
with the question of the importation of horses

 




 

 

 

i
; " I
s
" , W
I} o
‘1
\ 1
t . ‘ '.
X I
i
1
k t
l
r j ‘
i . E
1 . f
I a
‘ . . [Photo by courtesy of Martin Prince
3 Waiting for blaster
é ,
5

 

 




 

 

February 1953

retary said the rescuers had shown that type of devotion and
complete lack of thought for their own comfort and con-
venience, which was so often found among country people
for the welfare and safety of animals.

Accepting the certiﬁcate, Mr Thompson said: ‘It will hang
here in the Parish Hall for all time and it is possible it may
be an inspiration to generations to follow.’

*

Mrs Bird and Mrs Fletcher organized a whist drive and
raised £19 123. 6d. for branch funds.

Sheffield Mrs Collier organized a Christmas Fair and raised
£75 for branch funds.

Chief Inspector Ryan attended the Shefﬁeld Transport

Fur and Feather Society Rabbit Shoe and presented two
RSPCA certiﬁcates for best kept rabbits in the juvenile class.
He received a donation of £1 for branch funds.
Stockport and District Inspector Cook from Macclesﬁeld,
visited St John’s Sunday School, Hayﬁeld, and helped in the
judging at the children’s pet show. At the end he was thanked
by Mr G. R. Leah, branch chairman.

Mrs Barlow, New Mills auxiliary hon secretary, reports
that a jumble sale raised £3 for branch funds.

Inspector Cook helped by Inspector Blaylock judged pets
at the Animal Defenders’ pet show at Hayfield.
Suffolk—East Coast, Constable Mrs Eady, branch hon
secretary, reports that the Christmas Fayre raised about
£30 for branch funds. .

Suffolk—East and Ipswich The annual sale was held at the
Diocesan Hall, Ipswich, and raised £81 15s. 5d. for branch
funds. Owing to the indisposition of Mrs Crawford, hon
secretary, the organizing work was undertaken by Miss
Osborn, Mrs Bell, Mrs Feen and Mr Gillingham. Lady
Ailwyn ran a produce stall and raised £19 10s.; Mrs Rosita
Tracy with Miss Butler made over £22 103. at a new goods
stall.

Surrey—Sutton and District Mrs Allibert, Council member
and branch hon secretary, reports that a children’s dramatic
entertainment organized by Mrs H. Blandford-Harris and
given by the St Dunstan’s Young Players raised £28 for
branch funds.

Sussex—Mid. and Eastbourne Miss Slocombe, hon sec-
retary for Animal Defenders, and Mrs L. Barry, who assists
in the work, were present at the Luxor Cinema when Senior
Inspector Winn spoke to a large gathering of Animal De-
fenders.

Vale of Mowbray By the sale of goods received as gifts and
by sundry competitions organized by Miss Sharples, branch
hon secretary, and Mr A. Campbell of Leyburn, the sum of
£87 16s. 5d. was raised for branch funds.

A bridge drive and competition organized by Mrs Strother,’

Northallerton auxiliary hon secretary, and Mrs Johnson, a
member of the branch committee, raised £18 for branch
funds. Mrs Jackson presented the prizes.

Wakefield, Dewsbury, Pontefract, Mirfield and Batley Stu-
dents of Alex Green gave a pianoforte concert in aid of

branch funds in the Jubilee Hall, Wakeﬁeld. The chairman:

was Supt J. Thornberry. The sum of £20 was raised.

Mr Stanley G. Watson, hon general secretary of the Hud-
dersﬁeld branch, was the speaker at the annual meeting of
the Dewsbury auxiliary. The Mayor of Dewsbury was very
helpful. .

West London Miss Ballairs organized with the help of Miss
Selby-Bigge an entertainment in aid of the West London
branch at the Guildford Technical College, Guildford. Mr. C.
R. Davies, branch organizer, who attended, mentioned the
kindness of the Surrey—Guildford and district branch whose

ofﬁcials and members had given valuable support. The enter— _

tainment took the form of a dancing matinee by students and
pupils of the Bice Bellairs School of Dance and Drama.

Westmorland RSPCA ﬁlms were shown at various places
in’the branch. Mrs Dobson, Milnthorpe auxiliary hon sec-
retary, and Mr Dobson, very kindly attended and lent their
projector for shows 'at Kendal, Tebay and Levens. Mr Cross,
branch hon treasurer, ' thanked Mr and Mrs Dobson at

THE ANIMAL WORLD 23

Kendal and Mr Brennan, auxiliary hon secretary, thanked
them at Tebay. ‘
Wiltshire—North A square dance organized by Mrs God?
win raised £21 for branch funds. Mrs Wheeler, branch hon
secretary, attended as did Inspector Hussey. ‘ '
Windsor, Eton, Slough, Staines and Uxbridge Mrs Butler,
Slough auxiliary hon secretary, reports that the auxiliary had .
a very good attendance at the jumble sale despite one of the
worst fogs ever known. After expenses a clear proﬁt of
£35 16s. was raised for branch funds.

The Christmas market organized by Mrs Walker, Hilling-
don auxiliary hon secretary, raised £50 for branch funds.
Wolverhampton and District Miss Scarlett, Cannock auxi-
liary hon secretary, organized a whist drive and raised over
£7 for branch funds. Prizes were distributed by Inspector
Hayes. .

A jumble sale organized by branch oﬁicials raised £67 for
branch funds.

Yorkshire—Barnsley and District A coffee morning organ-.
ized by Miss Parker of Barnsley raised £77 for branch funds.
Miss Parker was helped in the organization by Mrs White of
Ardsley and there were many other helpers.
Yorkshiree—Bradford and District Miss Stell, Keighley
auxiliary hon secretary, reports that £60 11s. 9d. was raised
for branch funds at a bring and buy sale organized by Miss
M. E. Rhodes at her home.

Yorkshire—Harrogate and District Mrs Walker, Wetherby
auxiliary hon secretary, reports that the children of the village
school at Wighill, near Tadcaster, organized a bring and buy
sale and raised £5 63. 3d. for branch funds. The children call
themselves ‘Friends of Nature.’

 

AN RSPCA GUEST

Inspector Lloyd’s two spaniels (mother and daughter).

with a guillemot who was covered with oil. After being

cleaned the bird was returned to the sea-side. He is saying
good-bye to his friends

 




 

 

 

ANIMAL WAYS
The RSPCA magazine for children

 

Price 1d. every month
A year’s subscription costs 2s. 6d. (Post paid)

 

Stories, drawings, puzzles, a prize competition
in each issue, photographs, cartoons.
A bright and entertaining magazine.

 

 

 

 

FLAG DAY
GOODS

Celluloid Buttons

LIST ON APPLICATION

THE UNIVERSAL BUTTON CO. LTD.

1-9 Birkheck Street, Bethnal Green, LONDON, E.2
Telephone: BIShopsgate 5750

Telegrams: ‘Unibutco Edo’

 

 

 

 

 

 

TEMPLE COX CAPTIVE

BOLT SLAUGHTERING
GUNS

Specially recommended and used by the RSPCA

THREE MODELS—ALL SILENT IN
ACTION

‘UNIVERSAL’ for all animals
‘SMALLS’ for all small animals
‘MARK 6’ for all animals. Designed for heavy

use in large Abattoirs and Freezing Works

TEMPLE COX DEVELOPMENT CO. LTD _
HIGH STREET, BROMLEY, KENT

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

@NBE'GDRMS

HOBSON & SONS
(LONDON) LTD

All enquiries to -

154-164 TOOLEY STREET
LONDON BRIDGE S.E.1

Telephone: HOP 2476 (4 lines)
Telegrams: HOBSON, BOROH, LONDON

Manufacturers of

UNIFORM CLOTHING
CAPS HELMETS LEATHER
BELTS POUCHES etc.

etc.

Gold and Silver Laces
Embroideries of every
description for ALL
UNIFORMED SERVICES

PATTERNS OF CLOTH
and ESTIMATES
will be forwarded free of charge

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

February 1953

TERRIFIED COW AND PIGS SAW
OTHER ANIMALS SLAUGHTERED

At Stockport Borough Magistrates Court two
slaughtermen and a foreman slaughterman were
prosecuted at Stocprrt on offences arising out
of the unlawful slaughter of animals contrary to

the Slaughter of Animals Act, 1933, Section 5 i

and the Second Schedule Provision 4. (Provision
4 of the Second Schedule reads ‘A person shall
not so far as is practicable without structural
alteration to premises existing at the passing of
this Act, slaughter, or cause or suffer to be
slaughtered, any animal in the view of another
animal.’) The ﬁrst charge arose outof the slaught—
ering of a cow. Counsel for the RSPCA, speaking
of the charge against the second man, said that
it arose when a policeman heard pigs squealing
and went to investigate. He found the defendant
in this case slaughtering a pig in a pen in full View
of others. The foreman slaughterman was alleged
to have told the Police Ofﬁcer ‘I took it this mat—
ter of slaughtering pigs in full View of others was
a matter of routine.’

Defending counsel said the slaughter of pigs
was a slow business because they had to be roped
around the tusk and snout. Thirty or forty pigs
were due to be slaughtered on the day- of the
offence. It was to enable the work to, be carried
out more quickly that the animal was killed in
the pen. This method of killing had been stopped
and would not be repeated.

Two men were ﬁned £3 each, one was ﬁned £2
and all had to pay £1 ls. costs. (Case A.6012;
Inspector E. Coles, No. 91.)

THE SNARE

‘ I hear a sudden cry of pain!
There is a rabbit in a snare:
Now I hear the cry again,
But I cannot tell from where.

But I cannot tell from where
He is calling out for aid;
Crying on the frightened air,
Making everything afraid.

Making everything afraid,
Wrinkling up his little face,
As he cries again for aid;

And I cannot ﬁnd the place.

And I cannot ﬁnd the place
Where his paw is in the snare:
Little one! Oh, little one!

I am searching everywhere.

JAMES STEPHENS

THE ANIMAL WORLD 19

KITTEN DROPPED THROUGH
WINDOW

At Bootle the RSPCA prosecuted a women for
causing unnecessary suffering to a kitten by
throwing the animal out of a window. At the
hearing of the case she was said to have told the
Police ‘I admit throwing the cat out of the wine
dow. I thought it was a stray.’ One girl in‘evidence
said she was taking padlocks off a shop window
when she heard a noise and looking" round saw
a kitten lying on the ﬂoor. The kitten. was crying
and she thought it had fallen from above. Another
girl was at home when she heard a little boy shout
‘Mum, that kitten is up here again.’ Then she
heard a woman walking across the ﬂoor above and -
looking through a hole in the ceiling saw the
defendant by the window. The next thing she
knew was the kitten falling past her window on
to' the ﬂoor. Inspector Franks said that the kite
ten’s injuries were not serious enough to warrant
destruction and the animal received attention.

When told she would be ﬁned £1 with £1 costs
the defendant said ‘I will have to use a cosh to
get some money.’ (A.6151.)

   
   

RSPCA ANlMALS’
AIR HOSTEL

A sick monkey on his way through London airport recfives

medicine from the manager of the RSPCA Animals Air

Hostel. Animals of all types receive care, exercise and food

at this hostel. The RSPCA often disapproves of the purpose

for which animals travel, but as their journeys cannot .be

forbidden, the RSPCA takes the view that they must receive
every consideration whilst on route

 




 

 

 

February 1953

‘SMILE, PLEASE!’

Miss Routley, Aldershot Aux Hon Sec, who sends this pic-

ture of her late dog, Glen, rightly says that she has caught

him ‘smiling’. Writing of Glen, Miss Routley says: ‘He was
my owner; we are ’all owned by our pets’

THE ANIMAL WORLD 17

YOUR DOG

Speak kindly, so that in the future,
When Time has removed your pet,
The way you returned his loyalty
May give you no cause for regret.

REFLECTING COLLAR FOR DOGS .
Members of the RSPCA Education Committee

recently saw and expressed interest in a novel
dog collar. The collar is studded so as to reﬂect
car headlights at night.

The manufacturers\ of the collar are Messrs
G. A. Jordan & Co. Limited, of 55' George
Street Birmingham, 3. Anyone wishing to know
more about the collar should write direct to
that firm. '

FOG VICTIM

A mallard drake ﬂying through the fog crashed
into Mr John Maclean as he was walking home

in Ifieldaroad, Fulham, London. Mr Maclean was -

stunned. The duck, injured, was taken to RSPCA
headquarters and, after attention, was pronounced
ﬁt and released.

 

DOG SWUNG ROUND BY HIND LEGS

A’ poultry keeper swung a dog round by the
hind legs, hitting the head on the ground several
times, it was alleged at Caxton Petty Sessions.

The defendant, who pleaded not guilty to
cruelly illvtreating the dog, was ﬁned £10 with
£8 123. costs. , . ,

The defendant kept some turkeys in‘ a pen
raised 2 ft 6 in from the ground and surrounded
by wire netting. One evening a neighbour went
to the bottom of his garden and saw a dog snif—
fing round the turkey run. Defendant then ap
peared and, according to the witness, kicked the
dog, then picked it up and swung it round about
half a dozen times, hitting its head on the ground.
Later he put the dog in a shed. _

After a police constable had seen the dog, the
dog’s owner went round and, seeing it was in a
bad state, asked for it to be destroyed.

‘Absolutely Mad’

Giving evidence, defendant stated: ‘The dog
was absolutely mad; I could not do anything
with it.’ After he had struck it he put it in the
shed- ,

1RSPCA counsel: Aren’t you ashamed of yourr
se f?

Defendant: No.

RSPCA Counsel: You would do the same
thing again?

Defendant: Yes. I had no other protection.

(A6182; Inspector Bartlett.)

 

[Photo by courtesy of Dartford, Crayford and Swanley Chronicle

HELPING THE RSPCA

These youngsters dressed as gipsies add a touch of colour
to the scene at the bazaar held by Dartford Auxiliary of
Kent North-West Branch, at the Conybeare Club. Anne
Ransom is holding a basket of novelties, from which she
took the bouquet she presented to the Mayor. Anne is the
daughter of Mrs Ransom, Dartford Town Aux Hon Sec

M. J.’

.,_._n _, 7—.-

 

 




 

 

February 1953 THE ANIMAL WORLD 15

and a large number of helpers had been doing
what they could to promote the welfare and inv
crease the population of the birds in the London
parks. The committee was sponsored by the
Ministry of Works, which in that, as in other
matters, had showed itself to be a very enlighta
ened department.

It was a matter of public interest to add to the
amenities of town life as well as of country life.
The success of the movement was dependent
upon individual action. If all garden owners took
an increased interest in birds by feeding them
with bread and water, as he did, they would
quickly have birds now regarded as rarities be—
come frequent and then common. It was also
necessary to have political action through the
statutes.

The Times

We are privileged to reprint The Times editorial
published after the House of Lords debated the
subject. '

Lord Lloyd’s recent statement on behalf of the
Government in the House of Lords (says The
Times) will give some encouragement to those—
and they are very many—who have long adv0r
cated a drastic reform of this country’s present
laws on the protection of wild birds. Without
going into details, he said that a Bill would be
introduced, though next session rather than this,
and though certainly with the Government’s
blessing, yet perhaps only by a private member.
The Bill is now being prepared. It is a modiﬁcation
of the one drafted many months ago (though not
yet published) by the Home Ofﬁce Advisory
Committee presided over by Lord Ilchester.

Protection of wild birds in Britain has long
been bedevilled by piecemeal legislation. As

NEED FOR ENLIGHTENMENT

A Lancashire Headmaster told one of our
school lecturers when .she was addressing his
pupils that there was a growing need for enlighten,
ment on the care of animals and that the need
had been met in his school by the lecture of that
morning.

Another Head Teacher said that there were
ﬁve lectures on the list for a certain date in De,
cember and when they were put to the vote the
RSPCA was chosen unanimously.

Since the last report 133 lectures were given
in schools in Gloucestershire, Essex, Surrey, Kent,
Gateshead, Kingsley (Lancs. ), Macclesﬁeld, Alder;
ley Edge, Hoyland, Rothley, Whitehaven, POIESv
worth, Wednesbury, Tanworth’in—Arden, Watv
lington, East Grinstead, Ipsden, Tilehurst and
the London area. The Backworth Methodist Youth
Circle (Durham), Lydney Girls’ Friendly Society,
the Hartley Naturalist Club, a children’s meeting
at Shepherd’s Bush Branch Library and the Graves—

 

Lord Templewood pointed out, the present state
of the law depends upon ﬁfteen Acts passed
since 1880 and 250 orders issued by local autho—
rities. Put in the broadest possible terms the law
is that any bird may be shot unless it is speci—
ﬁcally protected .by one of those Acts or orders——
with the result that it is far from easy for anyone
faced by an unusual bird to know whether he
may shoot it legally (the question of desirability
fr morality is another matter and is outside the
aw). '

Difﬁcult

The Acts and orders as they stand are also
difﬁcult to administer, and often ineffective in
their penalties where a conviction is obtained.
There is the further consideration that birds
arriving for the ﬁrst time in this country are
obviously unprotected; and that this is no merely
academic point is shown by the fact that there
has in recent times been a remarkable northv
westerly extension in the range of many kinds of
European birds, several of which are beginning
to colonize southern England. To those who
realize, the importance of protecting adequately
the living creatures of our land it has for some
time been clear that what was needed was a
reversal, in principle, of our law. Every bird, in
effect, should be protected, unless (as in the case
of harmful birds or, for different reasons, game
Or other birds used for food) its shooting is ‘
speciﬁcally allowed. Lord Lloyd made it clear
that the Advisory Committee’s yet unpublished
report adhered to this principle, and that in
general the Home Secretary and the Secretary
for Scotland accepted it. That is good, but it is
to be hoped that the modiﬁcations will not be
too many, or the delay too great.

end Animal Defender group were also addressed.

Thirtyatwo new Animal Defender groups were
formed; 478 children joined the Headquarters
Group.

Newport Clinic Animal Defenders on a visit to the Severn
Wildfowl Trust. (Picture from Mrs Pughe-Evans, Mon-
mouthshire Branch Hon Sec)

 

 

 




 

ROYAL SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS

PATRONS

HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN

HER MAJESTY QUEEN ELIZABETH, THE QUEEN MOTHER
,- HER MAJESTY QUEEN MARY
HER ROYAL HIGHNESS PRINCESS ALICE COUNTESS OF ATHLONE
HER ROYAL HIGHNESS PRINCESS ARTHUR OF CONNAUGHT

PRESIDENT
SIR ROBERT GOWER, KCVO, OBE, HON DCL, JP
VICE-PRESIDENTS

SIR MALCOLM SARGENT, HON LLD, D MUS, FRCM, FRSA
COLONEL R. M. POWELL, DSO

THE COUNCIL (1952-1953)

Chairman: THE RT HON LORD MERTHYR, DL, TD
Vice-Chairman: *MRS WALLIS POWER, JP

 

 

HER GRACE WINIFRED DUCHESS OF PORTLAND
THE RT HON THE EARL OF SHAFTESBURY, KP, PC

 

 

 

TAGIUS, THE REV DOM. AMBROSE, OSB, MA *EVANS, MRS DAVID, BA POULETT’ THE RT HON THE EARL

*ALLIBERT, MRS FREEMAN, PETER, ESQ, MP POWELL, COL RM, D50

*ALSOP, ALDERMAN A. J., FCRA, FCIS, JP GASKOIN. 0- J- 8-, ESQ, MA RATTRAY, THE REV DR R. F.

BERE, SIR RUPERT DE LA, MP *GREENWOODa ANTHONY, ESQ. MA, MP *RIECK, H. H., ESQ

BERTIE OF THAME, THE RT HON THE VISCOUNTESS #335133, CARSWENVESM SHAFTESBURY, THE RT HON THE COUNTESS OP
BRANSOM, MIss L. 0., FRSA HOGG S R. ESQ DSOQ MC SIBLY, w. A., ESQ, MA, JP

BYWATER, H. 15., ESQ,, MRCVS *HUNTER. MISS ’ ’ SNELL, THE REV PREBENDARY L. J. B., MBE, JP

*COOPER, ALDERMAN J, 13,, JP ' LEE, MRS TERRINGTON, THE RT HON LORD, KBE, MA
DAWES, CAPTAIN H. Wu CBE, MRCVS LOCKWOOD, LT-COL J. c., JP, TD, MP THOMAS, W- 5- RUSSELL, ESQ.

*DOWDELL, MRS LONGMAN, MRS w. TUFNELL, LIEUT-COMMANDER R. L., MA RN
ERSKINE OF RESTORMEL, THE RT HON THE LORD Mummy, BRIGADIER c. A., CBE, MRCVS *WALFORD, MRS DESBOROUGH
ESTCOURT-OSWALD, MISS AGNES, MB (LOND), DPH MOORE, LT-COL SIR THOMAS, CBE, MP *WHITE, HARRY, ESQ. FCA

(CANTAB), DOMS *PARKER, MAURICE G., ESQ, MISAc *WINCHESTER, F. J., ESQ, FCIS, FSS
* Denotes Branch Representative T Denotes Co-opted Member
OFFICE BEARERS APPOINTED BY THE COUNCIL

Hon Treasurer—LT-COL J. C. LOCKWOOD, JP, TD, MP Chief Secretary—ARTHUR W. MOSS, ESQ, MBE, ACIS

Deputy Hon Treasurer—HARRY WHITE, ESQ, FCA Assistant Secretary—LT-COL L. GARTSIDE, Dso

Hon Medical Ofﬁcer—A. F. WHYTE, ESQ, MB, CHB Legal Secretary—I. HALL, ESQ

BankerS—MESSRS COU'ITS AND CO, STRAND, LONDON Chief Vetermary Ofﬁcer—MAJOR R. C. G. HANCOCK, BSC, MRCVS

Auditors—MESSRS VINEY, PRICE & GOODYEAR, CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS .

Telegrams—‘CRUELTY LONDON.’ Telephone—Whitehall 71 77

 

 

USED &TRUSTEDTHE WORLD OVER.

........................

j.

    
      

HANDY WITH YOUR NEEDLE?

— Please help!

After the Christmas Market we had left
over a large number of small pieces of fabric
which were not sold. These pieces of fabric
might well be made into kettle holders and
other similar small articles which might sug-
':';;i;;;.; ..... : gest themselves to our readers. lfany reader
I “ would like to help Headquarters by making
up these fabric trimmings, Headquarters
will forward a carton of these pieces to such
readers on application to the:
Chief Secretary, RSPCA
(Appeals Department),
l05 Jermyn Street,
London, SW.|.
The articles when made up should be re-
turned to Jermyn Street, so that they may
then be sold on behalf ofthe Society’s funds.

SIMPLE. -\

\\ .

SAFE.. '
SURE 7].“. “CASH X47

CAPTIVE BOLT PISTOL
FOR ALL ANIMALS

 

 

  

&

 

 

 

 

 

LCCIES AND SNELVOKE lID - BIRMINGHAM ' 6 ' ENGLAND
5465

 

 




 

 

 

14 THE ANIMAL WORLD

frOm Eire and Northern Ireland. It is of the
opinion” that this is certainly a, matter which
requires careful investigation. The Society’s views
are as follows:

A 1. That no live horses should be imported
from Ireland for slaughter.

2. That the Government should make strong
representations to the Irish Authorities urging
that much tighter regulations be drawn up rev

February 1953

garding the transit of horses from Eire and
Northern Ireland. ‘ .

3. That there should be an order stating that
all horses reaching this country from Eire and
Northern Ireland should be rested on arrival for
a period of ten hours, the same as is compulsory
in the case of cattle. On this point the Society’s
Inspector at Birkenhead particularly referred to
the fact that there is lack of suitable accommoda—
tion for horses at the docks.

 

PROTECTION OF WILD BIRDS

During a recent debate in the House of Lords,
when Viscount Templewood called attention to
the need for better protection for wild birds,
Lord Burden said:

The broad effect of the local orders is to place
almost insurmountable technical difﬁculties in
the way of prosecutions. The RSPCA, which is
as much concerned with the protection of
wild birds as with the protection of animals,
has been much concerned about this question
for many years. Not only are there the technical
difﬁculties which I have mentioned, but there
are—and I am glad that it has already been
emphasized—the quite inadequate penalties which
can be imposed under the various Acts. The very
fact that the Bird Protection Laws are so com—
plicated at the present time prevents the RSPCA
inspectors, in spite of their vigilance, from en—
suring that the laws are not infringed. And so far
as the public are concerned, it is very difﬁcult
for them to know whether or not they are in—
fringing the law.

OIL FROM SHIPS—INJURY T O BIRD LIFE

Viscount Samuel said that an important aspect
of the subject was the injury done to bird life by
oil pollution at sea. The sea birds were as much
entitled to protection as any other, and in these
days they were suffering a greater peril and a more
hateful kind of destruction than that which afflicted
the birds of the ﬁelds. Oil ships discharged waste
oil at sea and it formed a ﬁlm covering, possibly,
acres of water. Any bird diving through the oil
could have its feathers clogged and be unable to

 

Thrush

 

ﬂy or feed itself and in course of time would die
a lingering death from starvation. Thousands of
birds were being wiped out in this way all round
our shores every year.

It had been made illegal to discharge waste oil
within a certain distance of the coast, but the evil
continued. There was now a greater interest in
the subject because our seaside resorts were being
economically injured by waste oil covering bath—
ing beaches. The British shipping industry was
making inquiries about what could be done.

Regarding birds in our towns, he had observed
thirteen different varieties. of birds in his small
London garden. He had, as it were, an aviary
without a wire cage. London was unique among
the capitals of the world regarding its parks and
open spaces. How much greater the enjoyment of
the public would be if they were full of birds,
particularly different varieties of song birds! The
birds of London were cared for by an ofﬁcial
committee on bird. sanctuaries in the royal parks
under the chairmanship of Lord Hurcomb. He

Found by an RSPCA Animal Defender in
his garden, this injured chaﬁinch was
, nursed back to health by the young animal
lover. Released when well, the bird still
returns to the house. (Picture sent by Miss
D. Marguardt, 'Leatherhead Aux Hon‘Sec)

 




 

 

16 THE ANIMAL WORLD

February 1953

THE RS‘PCA AT WORK

DECEMBER 1952

RSPCA INSPECTORS

2,262 Complaints of cruelty investigated.
1 Oﬁ‘ender imprisoned.
50 Offenders ﬁned.

26 Persons guilty of minor acts of cruelty cautioned in writing.

805 Registered cautions were administered by Inspectors.

CLASSIFICATION OF CONVICTIONS

HORSES—Working in an unﬁt state 2
CATTLE—Neglecting, neglecting ingrowing horn,
travelling when in an unﬁt state ~ 5
SHEEP—Neglecting, beating 3
mos—Neglecting 2
DOGS—Neglecting, beating, kicking, killing in im—
proper manner 15
CATS—Neglecting, strangling, injuring with missiles 10
RABBIT—fThTO‘wing over wall 2
- FOWLS—Neglecting I 2
GEESE—Injuring with missiles 1
PIGEONS—Painting with creosote 2

OFFENCES UNDER THE PROTECTION OF BIRDS ACT, 1925:
Conﬁning bird in small cage 1

OFFENCES UNDER THE WILD BIRDS PROTECTION ACTS:

Being in possession of recently taken birds 1

VARIOUS OFFENCESI

Steel—tooth traps—set in open

Permitting in an offence 1
Keeping dogs when disqualiﬁed 1
TOTAL NUMBER OF CONVICTIONS 51

During DECEMBER, 1952, Magistrates, at the request of the
RSPCA, disqualiﬁed EIGHT persons from owning a dog or
holding a dog licence. Disqualiﬁcations were as follows:

ONE for TWELVE months; ONE for Two years; FOUR for FIVE
years; ONE for TEN years; ONE for FORTY years. '

Total number of COMPLAINTS from January 1 30,750
Total number of CONVICTIONS from January 1 q 962
Total number of CAUTIONS from January 1... 11,559

HEADQUARTERS CLINICS

No. of animals handled:
Cats, 3,345 Dogs, 3,505 Misc., 210 Total, 7,060
No. of animals given emergency ﬁrst-aid: 1,666

PHTNEY CONVALESCENT WARD
No. of animals handled:
Cats, 5 Dogs, 57

Misc., 0 Total, 62

NIGHT STAFF

No. of calls received: 1,891

Miles covered by ambulance in respect of urgent calls: 1,720
No. of animals rescued: 14

No. of cases treated by veterinary surgeon: 141

NORTH WALES UNIT

F irst'aid cases:

Cats, 41 Dogs, 53 VMisc., 1 Total, 95
No. of other animals handled by Unit:
Cats, 57 Dogs, 48 Misc., 0 Total, 105
No. of miles covered by Unit during month: 2,215
AWARDS
Number of cases considered 27
Bronze medals 6
Certiﬁcates of Merit 3
RECORDS FOR 1951 .
COMPLAINTS 31,399
CONVICTIONS 939
CAUTIONS . 11,146
HEADQUARTERS CLINICS
No. of animals handled: 161,071
NIGHT STAFF
No. of calls: 17,792
NORTH \‘VALES UNIT
No. of animals handled: 2,822
AWARDS
RSPCA awards for animal life saving:
Silver Medals 15
Bars to Silver Medals 4
Bronze Medals . 86

Bars to Bronze Medals .. 7
Merit Certiﬁcates 142




 

 

18 THE ANIMAL WORLD

February 1953

 

 

‘GOADED’ BULLOCK DROPPED DEAD

Alleged to have beaten, goaded and twisted
the tail of a bullock whom he was driving and
who eventually dropped dead in the street, a
cattle drover was ﬁned £5 at York today for causa
ing unnecessary suffering.

Counsel for the RSPCA said that the defendant
was driving eighteen animals from a farm market.
One bullock became ill and another drover took
the other cattle on, intending to send back a van
for the sick animal.

The defendant, however, decided not to wait
and drove the animal on, goading it and twisting
its tail. Even when the bullock dropped from
sheer exhaustion he forced it to move on. -

While the animal was being driven through
a certain street, said RSPCA counsel, three
women remonstrated with the defendant. 'He
shouted at them and threatened them with vio—
lence. The beast eventually dropped dead.

The presiding magistrate said: ‘We take a very
poor View of this case.’

To the three women, who had come forward
as witnesses, he added he was rather surprised
that it had been left to them to come forward.
(A6132; Chief Inspector Buckland and Probav
tion Inspector Harﬂeet.)

THE OWL WHO DlDN’T GIVE
A HOOT!

‘Daily Mirror’ Reporter

Two big round eyes blinked
solemnly at Mr Robert Cupitt as
he got out of his car after a
twenty-mile drive.

They belonged to a baby owl
who had got lost in the fog and
flew into Mr Cupitt’s car, prob;-
ably near the woods around Chal-
font St Peter, Bucks.

Wedged between the radiator
and the front bumper, the owl
rode to Brentford, Middlesex,
where Mr Cupitt found it when
he pulled up at his ofﬁce.‘

Dazed and cold, the baby owl
thawed out before the office fire.
Then, carefully wrapped in a
piece of blanket, he was sent by
special van to RSPCA Inspector
Williams.

In the picture, reproduced by
courtesy of the ‘Daily Mirror’,
the owl is shown with the lnspec-
tor’s baby son. When fit, the owl
was released in the country

OWNERS MOVED HOUSE—LEFT PETS

A man and his wife, who abandoned ﬁve dogs
and a cat when they moved house, were brought
by the RSPCA before the Magistrates at New—
castle—upon’Tyne on a charge of causing unneces’
sary suffering to the animals by unreasonably
abandoning them and were ﬁned, the man £10
and the woman £5. The man had to pay £3 13s. 10d.
costs. All the animals went to new homes and the
two defendants were, on an application made by
the RSPCA, forbidden to own a dog or hold a
dog licence for life. (A6190; Inspector Nairn and
Senior Inspector Baxter.)

WILD BIRD SOLD”

Whitehaven Magistrates imposed a ﬁne of £1
and ordered costs of £2 ls. to be paid by a bird
dealer found guilty of selling a wild chafﬁnch
other than a close ringed specimen bred in
captivity. Inspector Turnell gave evidence that
the ﬁnch was a wild bird not amenable to cap,
tivity. Certain evidence was given by Inspector

Duck. (A.5932.)

 




 

 

 

.20

THE ANIMAL WORLD

February 1953

 

 

 

 

ll. Watched anxiously by the dog’s owner, St Ives Fire Brigade 2. The rescuer is carefully ﬁtted into the harness by

and RSPCA Chief Inspector Munnelly prepare to rescue a dog which he will be lowered into the dark and hazardous
from a disused shaft, which appears no more dangerous than a workings which were abandoned probably a hundred

depression in the ground, but may conceal a shaft hundreds of

feet deep

Two THOUSAND DEATH TRAPS

ON THE CORNISH MOORS

  

6. Really safe now—but is she warning
him that there are another two thousand
shafts he might fall into? For the danger
is ever present to man and beast

I During the past eight years alone the R
and animals who have fallen into the‘shaft.

In an eﬂort to prevent and minimize such accidents,

 

SPCA, the Count

[Pictures and story by courtesy of Everybody’s]

People living in West Cornwall never
‘wish the ground would open up and
swallow them up’. It might happen.
Recently a gaping hole appeared in the
road at Camborne just after a lorry had
passed. The hole led into a disused tin
mine 250 feet deep.

But—such unknown hazards apart—
there are over 2,000 known disused
shafts in Cornwall, many of them
ﬂooded to a great depth, and most of
them unmarked and unfenced. Every
year hundreds of horses, cats, dogs and
other animals fall into the shafts, and
humans, too.

A REAL PROBLEM

‘3. The rescuer descends. Apart frOm the

years ago. (Right) Chief Inspector Munnelly

 

.1 iv,

unknown dangers below, there is ever

present the danger of stones and rocks

becoming dislodged from above and
falling upon the ﬁgure in the shaft

y Fire Brigade and others‘have made over 150 rescues of people

there has now been formed the Society for the Prevention of Accidents

in Disused Mine Shafts, and it is a very real problem the Society faces, for the whole of Cornwall is pitted with these death

traps. At Cury a few years ago fourteen hounds were drowned by falling into a ﬂooded shaft.

    

5. Safe at last—or nearly so. For even

now' if the animal struggles he may slip

back into the ‘ depths—perhaps into
water hundreds of feet deep

It is to prevent, rather than to cure,
that the Society has been formed. It
seeks the c0—operation of landowners,
the owners of mineral rights, the local
authorities and of the general public to
note, fence and cover these dangerous
shafts. In the meantime, as the accom—
panying pictures show, rescue—when
the occasion makes rescue possible—~is
a hazardous undertaking. '

Prominent in many rescue attempts
is Chief Inspector Munnelly, who
in ten years’ service at Penzance

has saved the liVes of scores of dogs,

cats and other animals, sometimes
more than one in a day.’ .

   

 

4. The rescuer’s eye-view of the world

above. The ladder supports his rope in

in the centre of the shaft and controls

the'rate of descent. But. it all looks very
frail indeed from below

 

 




 

22 ' THE ANIMAL WORLD

February 1953

 

 

Animal Defender
Alan Lovett with

a friend and

sheep

 

Craven and Upper Wharfdale Mr E. A. Swales, auxiliary
hon treasurer, reports that Barnoldswick auxiliary workers
organized a jumble sale and raised over £17 for branch funds.
Croydon Borough A sale organized by Mrs Sherborn,
branch hon secretary, raised £74 for branch funds. The sale
was opened by Mrs Heath and the Rev Munday ofﬁciated.
Cumberland—North and East Major Pulleine, branch organ-
izer, spoke on RSPCA activities at a meeting of the Method-
ist C(lihurch in Corby. A collection was made for branch
un s. .

Miss M. Beckton, auxiliary hon secretary, organized a
twhicslt drive in Abbeytown and raised £10 17s. 6d. for branch
un s.
Durham and District Miss G. S. Wilkinson, branch hon
secretary, reports that a bring and buy sale held in the Town
Hall, Durham, and opened by the Mayor, Councillor G.
McIntyre, ralsed £60 19s. 3d. (clear of expenses) for branch
funds. Present at the sale were also the Mayoress, Mrs Gor-‘
don McIntyre, Mr A. B. Peacock, branch hon treasurer,
County Counc1llor Mrs H. H. Rushford, branch chairman,
and Mlss G. S. Wilkinson, branch hon secretary.
Exeter, East and West Devon As arranged by Mr W. Moast,
chairman of the Parish Council, RSPCA ﬁlms were shown
at the Foresters’ Hall, Sheepwash, Nr Holsworthy, Devon.
A collection of 6s. 8d. was given to branch funds.
Glamorgan~Mid and Port Talbot Mrs Hands, Porthcawl
aux111ary hon secretary, reports that the auxiliary has raised
£38 from a Christmas competition for branch funds.
Hampshire—Southampton and District The Netley auxi-
liary bazaar held in the British Legion Hall at Netley was
opened by Mr A.. H. Powdrill, branch chairman. He con-
gratulated the aux11iary on its work and thanked Mrs Gold-
thorpe for her efforts as hon secretary. Mrs Cameron pre-
s1ded at the opening and was supported by Miss Morse, hon
secretary of the Animal Clinic, and Mr E. Windebank,
branch secretary.
Headquarters .It is heartening news to learn that nearly
£120 was contrlbuted to the society as a result of a local sale
organlzed by the committee of the Balham Clinic. The mem-
bers of the commlttee and their friends provided the bulk of
the goods for sale, mostly home made—the balance repre-
sent gifts from sympathetic local traders. An enthusiastic
attendance of local householders did the rest in a matter of
three hours.
Herefordshire Miss E. M. Carver, branch hon secretary,
reports that a bazaar organized in Whitchurch by Miss
tS‘alr‘liron, jomt aux111ary'hon secretary, raised £50 for branch

un s.
Huts—East Mrs Gregory, Broxbourne auxiliary hon sec-
retary, reports that a very successful dance held at Harlow

Matilda, a tame“ ’

Mill raised £68 9s. 2d. for branch funds. Valuable help was
given by Mrs G. Edwards and Miss C. Roberts.
Kent—Canterbury and District Mrs Dance, branch hon
secretary, reports that the ﬁrst two of a series of six whist
drives have been held in Canterbury and made a proﬁt for
branch funds of £8 1s. 11d. and £7 95. 3d. respectively.

The Mayoress, Mrs J. R. Barrett, accompanied by the
Mayor, opened the branch Christmas bazaar at the Slater
Hall, Canterbury, when the sum of £131 ls. 3d. was raised
for branch funds. The Mayoress was welcomed by the branch
president, Mr G. T. Hall, and was thanked by the hon
treasurer, Mr A. H. Matheson. .

Kent—Dover and District The branch had a literature stall
at the Dover Canine Society’s Dog Show held in the Co-
Operative Hall, Dover. The stall was given by permission of
Mrs Hilton, hon secretary, and the committee. During the
interval, Max, a dachshund owned by Mrs Arnold, collected
10s. for branch funds. '

Kent—Isle of Thanet 'Mrs Earle, Margate auxiliary hon
secretary, raised £84 for branch funds at a sale of work which
was opened by Miss Lawrance, branch hon secretary.

The committee at Broadstairs auxiliary, with Mrs Peskin
as chairman, raised £34 for branch funds at a jumble sale
held at the home of Mrs Peskin.

Kente—North-West Mrs Ransom, Dartford auxiliary hon
secretary, reports that a Christmas Fayre opened by his Wor-
ship the Mayor of Dartford raised £62 for branch funds.
Lincolnshire—South, and Grantham Mrs Shinner, Pinch-
beck auxiliary hon secretary had a bring and buy sale at her
home and raised over £70 for branch funds.

A coffee morning and bring and buy sale was organized
at Fydell House, Boston, by Miss Beedall and Miss Hall,
joint auxiliary hon secretaries. The use of Fydell House was
permitted without charge by the English Speaking Union to
whom it belongs. '

Merthyr Tydfil and District A collection in the cinema at
Aberdare raised £24 6s. 2d. for the local clinic. Much help
was given by Mrs Greoger of Aberdare.

N ewcastle-upon-Tyne A whist drive organized at Berwick by
Mrs Goodall, auxiliary hon secretary, raised the sum of £10
and a whist drive at Amble £9 for branch funds. The Amble
committee also organized a Christmas party and ﬁlm show
for Animal Defenders. All three functions were attended by
Inspector Marshall.

Norfolk—Mid. and Norwich A report from Mrs Webb, hon
secretary of Walsingham and Wells auxiliary, says that Miss
S. S. How showed some of her own coloured slides to friends
and made a collection of £1 2s. 7d. for branch funds.

A bring and buy sale organized by Miss M. Buchanan,
hon secretary of Sheringham auxiliary, raised £34 23. for
branch funds. ‘

Peterborough and District A dance organized by Mrs A. D.
Towns at Ashnell raised £24 for branch funds.

Plymouth and South-West Devon Mrs O. Rees, Plympton
auxiliary hon secretary, helped by Mrs Porter, Mrs May and
Mrs Toms, organized a jumble sale and raised £15 4s. 6d.. for
branch funds.

Pupils of Mrs K. M. Martin of Lipson gave a concert and
raised £1 17s. 6d. for branch funds.

Rochdale Miss F. Osborne, branch secretary, reports that
the yearly jumble sale raised £18 155. for branch funds.
Scarborough The rescue last March of Julie, the cross
Border terrier trapped for nearly a week in a 41—foot deep,
foot wide ﬁssure beneath 60 feet of solid rock in the hills near
Old Byland, Helmsley, was recognized recently by the pre-
sentation to the 12—strong rescue party of an RSPCA certiﬁ-‘-
cate of merit for ‘courage and humanity’.

The presentation took place in the Old Byland Parish Hall
before a large gathering of villagers. A tribute to the rescue
party, consisting of farmer, farm workers, game-keepers,
two roadmen and a policeman was paid by the Earl of F evers-
ham who presented the certiﬁcate, in a gilt frame, to Mr W.
A. Thompson, owner of the terrier and leader of the rescue
party.

Mr R. K. Smith, Pickering and Rydale auxiliary hon sec-

 

 




 

24 ‘ ' THE ANIMAL WORLD

February 1953

 

 

POLICE DOG

 

Mrs Hockley, Bromley, Leader of the Reindeer Group of
Animal Defenders, sends this picture, in which Rustler, a
police dog, is shown with his handler, PC Bayley

FLAG DAY RESULTS

(We give, wherever possible, the place where the Flag Day
was organized and the name of the organizer or organizers.)

Amendment: Moulsoe, Mrs Spridgeon, £3.

Keighley, Miss Stell, aux hon sec £67 165. 2d.; Dordon,
£45 195. 8d; Meriden, Mrs Warmingham, aux hon sec, £6
17s. 5d.; Bedworth, Rev E. S. Bardgett, £14 165. 3d.; Ballsall,
Mrs Golby, aux hon sec, £10 105.; Coventry, £214 153.

RSPCA FILM NEWS

The Society’s ﬁlms were sent to the following places for
showing recently.

Welburn, Tottenham, Cosham, Birmingham, Whitev
haven, Billingshurst, Shilbottle, Chelsea, Hull, Huddersﬁeld,
Whitby, Colchester, Paddock Wood, Sheerness, Notting‘
ham, Higham, Raynes Park, Harlesden, Dalton-in Furness,
Middlesbrough, Buxton, Lincoln, Leicester, Ilford, Wind—
sor, Corris, Rickmansworth, Welling, Barnes, Crofton

Park, Devizes, Llay, East Ham, Mansﬁeld, Guisborough,

Gravesend, Horsham, Amble, Chesterﬁeld, Crowborough,
Carmarthen, Tenbury, Nelson, Wisbech, Braintree, Rust—
hall, Liverpool, Kenton, Wadhurst, Stratford, Harrow,
Lymington, Bolton, Eastbourne, Louth, Over Wyresdale,
Barking, Manchester, Stower Row, Exeter, Tynewydd,
Lancaster, Fowey, Eastleigh. ,

HOUSE—TO-HOUSE COLLECTIONS

(We give, wherever possible, the place where the collection
was organized and the name of the collector or collectors.)

Sidmouth, Mr R. D. Oxenford, £71; Northﬂeet, Mrs
Porter, aux hon sec, £33 125 3d; Langport district, Mrs
Langler, aux hon sec, £51 05. 2d.; Wells, Mrs Webb, aux
hon sec, £18 185. 7d.; Dorking, Mrs Souter, aux hon sec,
£41 Os. 1d.; Dover and Alkham, £43 83. 3d.; Ripley, Miss N.
Cotterill, aux hon sec, £40 ls. 7d.; Westcott, Mrs Castly—
Lindwall, aux hon sec, £10 85. 4d.; Sidcup, Mrs Thompson,
co-aux hon sec, £36 55. 6d.; Tewin Wood, Mrs Thorogood,
£7 55. 6d.; Barrow—in-Furness, Mr K. O. Hunt, aux hon sec,
£45 193. 10d.; Leyland, Mrs Percival, aux hon sec, £37 75.;
Newark, Mrs Aldred, aux hon sec, £2 95. and £11 175 2d.;
Barnburgh, Mrs Cook, £7 16s. 9d; Surrey—Epsom and
DistrictBranch, £185 155. 6d.; Cornwall—Mid, £185 85. 5%d.;
Huntingdonshire and March Area Branch, £141 165. 11d.

 

This picture, like»

RSPCA CHRISTMAS MARKET
SEYMOUR HALL, w.1
NOVEMBER 19 and 20, 1952

The following table shows the amounts raised by the
various Branches, Auxiliaries and Clinics that took part
in this popular annual function:

Branches: £ 5 d
l Golders Green Auxiliary 170 10 6
Barnes Auxiliary 36 3 0
Crystal Palace Branch 187 9 8
Ealing Branch . . . . . . . . . 20 15 0
Streatham, Brixton and Clapham Branch 35 14 0
Knightsbridge Auxiliary 207 17, 6
Kensington Auxiliary 6O 17 6
Marylebone and St John’s Wood Auxs. 4O 4 0
Hants and Surrey Border Branch 150 0 0
Hemel Hempstead Auxiliary 73 6 0
Forest Hill and Sydenham Branch 85 7 5
Yorkshire Group 13 51 0 0
Essex S.W. Branch 82 0 0
Balham and Tooting Branch 78 15 5
Wandsworth Common Auxiliary ' 34 0 0
Wimbledon Division 25 18 0
Chiswick Division 58 8 9
London N.E. Branch 5 18 0
London SE. Branch 3 3 0
Richmond Branch ‘ 9 6 0
Clinics. £ 5. d.
Animal War Memorial Dispensary 301 0 3
RSPCA Bird Fund ..-. 162 12 0
St John Partridge Memorial Clinic 335 7 0
Lee Clinic... 49 6 10
Brixton (Borthwi'ck Memorial) Clinic 38 3 6
Balham Clinic 26 7 0
Mayhew Home 73 4 6
Bow Centre 61 9 4
Animal Aid and Welfare Club 32 7 2
Animal Rescue League 82 11 1
Ealing and Hanwell Shelter 84 2 10
Putney and Barnes Clinics 242 0 5
Edmonton Clinic 3 17 0
Sister Mabel’s Dispensary 7 8 0
Headquarters ‘ 1,180 1 8

HARVEST FESTIVAL

 

xii-ax duvets

the one at the head of the preceding

column, comes from Mrs Hockley. in it Animal Defenders

from the Reindeer Group, Meryl, Barbara and Rosemary,

are seen in the Children’s Corner at the Harvest Festival
Service, St john’s Church, Bromley, Kent

 

 

      

 




 

 

 

 

LONDON JOINT ANIMAL FLAG DAY

As already announced, the London Joint Animal Flag Day will be held on April l4 next, with
the usual house to house collection from April 7 to l4 inclusive. These dates are somewhat earlier
than usual but it means that the collection will take place before a number ofthe usual flag days in May.

 

 

 

 

FLAG DAY DEPOT (Picture from Llanelly)

AN ANIMAL
HELPS

‘Cobber’
lends a
hand.
(Picture from
Mrs
Blakeston,
Driﬂield
Auxiliary
Hon Sec)

 

 

 

R. S.P°C.A_=

 

 

 

 

FORM OF BEQUEST FOR NATIONAL WORK

To those benevolent individuals who may wish to become benefactors byWill to this

Society, the following form is respectfully suggested:—

‘I bequeath to the ROYAL SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS, founded
1824, for the general purposes of that Society, the sum of £...... .................................... .., free
of death duty and the receipt of the Treasurer for the time being of the said Society shall
be sufficient discharge for such legacy.’ (If it should be desired that the legacy should be ex’

pended on some particular phase of the Society’s work, a direction to this effect may be added to the

form of bequest.)

 

NOTE

By the Act of William IV and 1 Victoria, Cap. 26, all Wills or Codicils must be in Writing signed by the

Testator, and attested by two witnesses in the presence of the Testator and of each other.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Printed by Shenval Press, Simson Shand Ltd, of Parliam t S d
published by Arthur w. Moss for the RSPCA at 105 Jerrhtyn solﬁé‘éf,’fie;52°§fl’sii}1

 

 




