 

 

seaweed being so ﬁne in quality it is used
as cattle fodder.

Someone has said: “In Connemara there
is no destination, only pauses,” pauses of
course to admire the breath-taking scenery.
Thomas Moore sang:

“Oh, place me where Dick Martin rules,

The houseless wilds of Connemara.”

The fame and eccentricity of “Hair-trig-
ger” Martin spread abroad, and stories about
him reached the ears of King George the
Fourth. It was said that when Martin wished
to call a butler at Ballinahinch Castle, he
would ﬁre his pistol in the air; and when in
an untalkative mood he would wear a red
bandana round his forehead so that his wife
or servants would not speak to him.

Campaign in Parliament

In due course of time he was elected
Member of Parliament for County Galway
which embraces all of Connemara. In Lon-
don he made his Vigorous personality felt
and even the King sought him out. Between
the years 1809 and 1820 he waged his cam-
paign for the protection of animals. He
brought forward several bills, one against
bull-baiting (then a favorite sport of Prime
Minister Canning), two against ill-treatment
of cattle, and one against inhumane slaught-
tering of horses. Again and again he at-
tempted to get the bills passed but they were
greeted with uniform derision and mockery.
Several other failures had preceded those of
Martin and it was generally considered that
he was ﬁghting a hopeless cause.

His friendship with King George the
Fourth burgeoned and so often did he try to
foster royal interest in animal legislation, the
King nick-named him “Humanity Dick,”
later offering him a peerage which Martin
refused. Thus the appellation which was to
be attached to his immortality was thrust
upon him.

First Anti-Cruelty Law

With true Irish persistence he continued
his efforts to get his bills passed. Gradually
he curried sympathy from cultivated people
and in 1822 the ﬁrst cruelty to animals act
was carried into law.

It provided that any person accused of
cruelly beating or otherwise ill-treating any
cattle should be summoned before a magis-
trate, and if convicted be ﬁned not more
than ﬁve pounds nor less than ten shillings——
or imprisoned for three months. The Act
is parent of all laws in connection with pro-
tection of animals in all countries.

Hundreds of convictions followed, and
Martin built a prison in Connemara, still
there today, wherein he placed the miscreants
of his own kingdom, too poor to pay the
ﬁnes he levied.

On July 16, 1825 there took place the ﬁrst
meeting of the Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals (later to become the
Royal SPCA) presided over by Richard
Martin. It was held, oddly enough, at
Slaughter’s Coffee House in St. Martin’s
lane and the founding resolutions were laid
down.

Far-Reaching Results

Little did the world realize then what a
great change this meeting would bring about,
an alteration in the morals, habits and
thoughts of the public for all time.

“Humanity Dick” was now seventy years
old, a time when most Members of Parlia-
ment retired to their life in the country. But
not Richard Martin! He spent several more
years girding the armour of the Society so
that it could wage its war against cruelty
more effectively, and he tried to get sharper
teeth into the new laws.

In keeping faith with his dumb friends he

(Continued on Page 24)

-./\‘h
"FF": “a in. 3..
“N. n? I ’ 4 -~ r~ AI
‘ (c I“ I' FM- —---|
\ n .0 | ~ ' ‘__ d
(r I \ / \ l r l /\
' ..\ \ \ \\ c r-\ i l \
'_.l \ X' ‘I i I i IT -— \
/ \ i I. " {'1 r—
('5 .‘ f‘ '7’“ /"'+‘ 1 ~
(“ c‘ ' ‘. u ,’ F: If"
\ ‘, \ / .“ ' , i i .
.’—\ ’ ' - ‘_‘.'~‘ rﬁ m “1:... \ : : _.‘_; {‘3 -
/ Q ”A“ ‘i’il—‘H l “k \ - ~’~\ (c t u ”I I i I 1:...“ I I ’“Y
. _~ ‘ - / I \f— s—Tt. 1"; \ — K- _.__~_. - \.__' 4—:- . t «h--- o :
\ \ " " I“ "" ~ - - ‘ ‘ § ‘: ‘1‘;?% r- L4 LﬂﬁJ- ; 3 \‘, ‘ “‘5"~-\-
~M. ~33. : s." a, .'J~“‘\..h , ‘A~~;
\ - ~ - . ‘. x ' ‘
s J‘.w'~".' \R‘ (I .~ / ’1 A s.) _ I. b

 




LETTERS

 

 

 

Ryan Fan Mail

> I am a life member of the SPCA of
Paris. . . . I was very interested in the
apparatus invented by Mr. Ryan to free cats
caught in trees. (Winter 1956) In Paris
we usually call the ﬁremen to rescue cats
from trees. The ﬁremen come with ladders
and try to catch the animals by hand. The
operation is seldom easy and Mr. Ryan’s
cat pole seems very practical to me. I would
appreciate it if you would let me know how
to get one for our society.
A.G.

Paris, France

Ed. Note: Our Paris correspondent was
sent the name of the manufacturer.

5* When your article stated that Special
Agent William Ryan is on call 24 hours a
day, you did not exaggerate. I cannot thank
you enough for sending him to save my
kitten at 4 o’clock this morning. All of my
life I have had a fondness for your organi-
zation, and was a junior member.

But never did I appreciate you as much
as I did last night, when the poor little
kitten was hanging in a wire fence, actu-
ally choking ‘to death. . . .

Miss V. C.
New York, N. Y.

Teen-Ager Writes Grandmother
Following is a letter from young Susan
Basset telling her grandmother about a visit
to the ASPCA Hospital with her cat Boots:
V The cat fought like fury to the taxicab
and ﬁnally wormed his way out of the bag.
All he wanted to do was to look out of the
window! Then he jumped out of my arms
in the ASPCA and I started to catch him,
but he didn’t need catching, as he walked
up the ramp ahead of me. He hopped up on
the bench right away and people were say-

ing, “My, what a well trained cat.”

I went over to register Boots. We had to
wait until they called us. The doc took his
temp. He had a small fever. He got a shot
and a prescription for terramycin.

Lucky Dog
> Four years ago last April I was brought
to your shelter by a nurse who found me on
the street. I had been thrown out as I had
diarrhea. She told my mistress that I was a
nice dog so my master came down and
adopted me. Took me up to the country
Where I have a nice home, two acres of
ground with ﬂowers and trees. I am very
happy. Wish every dog could have the same.
Here is a small contribution, but it may help
to give some worthy dog a home.
Lucky
Kingston, N. Y.
Honest Opinion
> . . . took my cocker spaniel to your
clinic. In spite of the fact that the dog was
not easy to handle, the doctor was most
courteous and thorough. Unfortunately, he
could only tell me what I had feared, that
the dog had a tumor and an operation was
not advisable. I appreciate his honest advice.
Mrs. L. F. D.
New York, N. Y.
Double Trouble
Every day we return a couple of lost dogs
to their owners because they can be identi-
ﬁed from their license tags. But here’s an
owner who got her dog back twice.
P . . . thank you for being so helpful dur-
ing the past year. I appreciate your aid in
returning my dog Shucks twice. Without
your excellent service the dog would never
have been returned at all.
Mrs. J. K.
New York, N. Y.

2].

 




 

HE largest assortment of animals on the
Broadway stage in several years appears

in this season’s musical “Li’l Abner.” The
barnyard talent includes four geese, two
Hoppy-eared basset hounds, a pig named
Bathsheba and a Sicilian burro named Julie.
Managed by Animal Talent Scouts, Inc.,
the animals were chosen like any other pro-
fessional —~ by audition — earn fancy sala-
ries, enjoy pampered lives and have two full-
time attendants off-stage. They’re dusted,
bathed and perfumed for performances (the
burro gets a weekly vacuuming) and run
up a feed bill of $50 a week. And like all

stars each one has an understudy.

TALENT SCOUT

for animals ‘

Between performances they have room and
board at ASPCA’s Manhattan Shelter. That
is, except on matinee days. Between after-
noon and evening performance on \Vednes-
day and Saturday they go home to “mother.”
Mother is Lorrain D'Essen, young, attrac-
tive director of Animal Talent Scouts.

And home is the D’Essen brownstone
house on West 18th Street, populated with
such assorted animals as four Siamese cats,
two Russian wolfhounds, three full-grown
basset hounds, four basset puppies, a York-
shire puppy, a great Dane, and a two-year-
old kangaroo named Victoria, who loves
bacon and sleeps in the foyer.

Practically all have had modeling or act-
ing experience in TV or advertising under
Mrs. D’Essen’s guidance. A couple of years
ago when she was in advertising she talked
up the use of animals in ads and TV com-
mercials. TV at that time had no place to go

for animal talent except the owners. And;

 
 
 

Lorrain D’Essen with two star performers

they couldn’t guarantee performance. They
knew nothing about TV technique, and kept
getting in the way. So Mrs. D’Essen organ-
ized A.T.S. and took over all the headaches.

First she had, to guarantee the owner
against the animal’s escape or injury. Next
she had to guarantee performance. Finally,
she had to guarantee the TV human per-
formers against backstage mishaps. Lloyds
of London wrote her a blanket policy that
pays up to $50,000 per mishap. So far she’s
had none.

Besides her own animals, which have the
run of her house and backyard, she also
has a ﬁle of 2,900 other talented dogs, cats,
raccoons, horses, cattle, alligators, llamas,

(Continued on Page 22)

11

 




 

 

 

 

 

N this world of fabulous adaptations and
everyday miracles, the snake, perhaps

more than any other creature, has for count-
less ages fascinated man. To understand a
snake’s life is to encounter some of the most
amazing gifts in the world of nature.

A snake has no ears, but can “hear” by
sensing Vibrations in the ground. A snake
can swallow prey far bigger than its mouth.
Some snakes detect their prey with special

.\\ll //

- .,- / /
’_’~» ~V;‘.,.I . ‘E I I.//> //. 4
'3‘“ ’3‘; ~... / ',6
rr' ‘ u- , ”ll/i -. _ . ’
’ ~ ‘ . ’ - , ‘—
r' > "K 0 '1"— ‘1 ’3
y I / '11)
J f' 4' ll "5‘. """
I -.:
7/ a» m ., .
\~ 4 «as x
x \\ .‘.‘ ,‘

Zealand, with no past connection with a
mainland or continent have no snakes. The
Hawaiian Islands had no snakes until re-
cently when they were accidentally brought
in with some sort of produce.

South America, according to some story
tellers, is the home of the monstrous ana-
conda 40, 50 or even 60 feet long. (One
weird newspaper story tells of a snake 156
feet long killed by a detachment of the Bra-

ALL
ABOUT

A N: A: . . .f ‘
.- j; ‘ 2/. , y u (W07 -L " '
ﬂ \\ af-Z/ ' ¢ A z

/’"\ \\§ - 9
¢/:/ 04"

.//:—_/’// /=

l

“heat receptors” in the lips which indicate
the presence of warm-blooded animals.

Poisonous snakes can lunge, bite, inject
poison and return to normal position in less
than half a second —— one of the most amaz-
ing feats of agility in all of nature. Even
harmless ﬁeld snakes have stomachs that can
digest feathers, bones, fur and even teeth.

No surprise that creatures so curious and
startling should give rise to myths and mis-
understandings that are sometimes fantastic
and sometimes plain silly.

Almost everybody, for instance, has heard
how St. Patrick drove the snakes from Ire-
land. It’s an amusing fable, but it never
happened. There are no snakes in Ireland
because they were kept out by rising seas
after the ice age 10,000 years ago.

Incidentally, many islands, including New

 

zilian army after a battle in which the
serpent “knocked down buildings” and “up-
set autos”) Actually, snakes of that length
are unknown to science. The largest ana-
conda of record measured 25 feet.

The largest snakes in the world are found
in Asia. The regal python is the champ. The
largest ever captured measured 33 feet in
length and weighed over 200 pounds.

There’s no truth in the yarn that a rattle-
snake will not crawl across a rope and that
all a sleeping cowboy need do to protect
himself on the range is to encircle his
blanket with a lasso. It’s not true that snakes
are “slimy”; their skins are dry. No snake
has a poisonous sting in its tail. No snake
rolls like a hoop or sucks milk from a cow.
Nine tenths of the nearly 3,000 species of
snakes are harmless and few are aggressive




 

THE D OR LISTEN,

 

 

 

 

 

The Eyes
Of Your Dog or Cat

by Leon Abrevaya, D.V.M.
ASPCA Hospital and Clinic

An animal’s eyes reflect its state of health,
as well as its joy, sorrow, and devotion to
its owner. A well-fed, loved animal has
bright eyes. A sad, under-nourished animal
has dull eyes. Abnormalities of the eyelids
or the visible parts of the eyeball give a clue
to a localized or systemic condition.

Cats cannot see well in bright light. Their
vision is better at dawn and in starlight.
According to some authorities they are less
color-blind than dogs, which see all objects
in. some state of gray. Cats, however, seem
able to discriminate between colors, although
some confuse white with yellow, red with
blue, and green with gray.

Some dogs and cats have a different color
in each eye but this does not affect their
vision. Kittens and puppies are not born
blind although their eyes are closed at birth.
It takes ten to ﬁfteen days to adapt to light
before their eyes open.

Principal Parts of the Eye

The front of the eye is round and trans-
parent. This structure, called the cornea,
contains no blood vessels but is fed by
minute blood vessels around its edge. Nerves
keep it sentitive to all outside injuries. It
is part of the strong outer coat of the eye-
ball which protects the delicate inner struc-
tures. Because it bulges forward, light be-
comes focused into the eye.

Through the transparent cornea, we see a
colored ring called the iris with a black

hole called the pupil. The iris controls the
amount of light admitted to the pupil, which
varies in size and form according to the
amount of light. The pupil expands during
stress and emotion. In aging cats, it remains
round; in young cats, it becomes oval.

Between the cornea and the iris is a
space ﬁlled with a ﬂuid that nourishes the
cornea and the lens, a transparent and very
elastic body that helps bend the rays of
light entering the eye. Behind this is an-
other semi-ﬂuid mass that transmits the
light and also holds the retina in place.
The retina lines the back of the eye and is
like a movie screen upon which images are
formed. The ciliary body, with its powerful
muscle, adjusts Visions near and far by
changing the refractive power of the lens
through its contraction and relaxation.

The nicatans or third eyelid is a mem-
brane on the inside corner of the eye acting
like a windshield wiper in protecting the
globe from foreign material. During certain
diseases and debility it is often enlarged.

Common Diseases of the Eye

1. Conjunctivitis is an inflammation of
the membrane which covers the outer half
of the eye globe. Itching, swelling, tearing,
and redness often occur.

2. Keratitis is an inflammation of the
cornea. This structure becomes inflamed
through injuries or infections, causing hazi-
ness, grayness and ulcers. An animal with
this condition often keeps its eye closed, and
vision becomes blurred.

3. Cataracts are opacities of the lens or its
capsule. In young dogs this is congenital and
the cataract is soft; in aged dogs, it is hard.

Treatment

In most cases of eye trouble, aside from
bathing with a mild eye wash such as boric
acid, it is best to take the animal to a vet-
erinarian. He is the only one thoroughly
acquainted with the complex structure of
this delicate organ. An early veterinary ex-
amination may spell the difference between
return of normal vision and loss of an eye.




 

 

 

    

g

 
 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

Newsday photo by Maguire

Mrs. Peter D. Garvan, (center) chairman, with Mrs. Mayson Hatch Tucker
and Mrs. Arthur Crowder, members of the Planning Committee for Car-
nival for Animals, to be held May T7 at the Piping Rock Club to pay for
Glen Cove Shelter’s ambulance. The dog is Ch. Collingwood Trigger.

WOMEN’S DIVISION FORMS
LONG ISLAND COMMITTEE

With the ASPCA’s expanded. activity on
Long Island’s North Shore —~ we are now
operating in Glen Cove, Sea Cliff, Munsey
Park, Bayville and East Hills—the Women’s
Volunteer Division has formed a Long Island
Committee, under the co-chairmenship of
Mrs. Arthur Crowder and Mrs. Mayson
Hatch Tucker. They, together with Mrs.
George Hayman and Mrs. Richard A. John-
son, make up "the, Executive Committee.

The committee’s ﬁrst project is to raise
$2,500 to repay the Society for funds it ad-
vanced for the Glen Cove Shelter’s new
ambulance. The ambulance is equipped with
ﬁrst aid and rescue equipment for caring
for accident cases, and has driven over

18

6,000 miles since it was put in operation
when the shelter opened last October.

To raise the money the committee will
hold. a dinner-dance on May 17 at the
Piping Rock Club, Locust Valley, to be
called Carnival for Animals. Mrs. Peter D.
Garvan is chairman and Mrs. Marion T.
Shotter is honorary chairman, with Rob
Boucher’s orchestra providing the music.

Committee members include Mrs. Grey
Mason, Mrs. Denison Schweppe, Mrs. Robert
Colby, Mrs. Raymond J. Viscardi, Mrs. Wil-
liam StoHel, Mrs. Meyer Berliner, Mrs. An-
thony A. Bliss, Mrs. John Borrie, Mrs. John
John Brinkerhoff, Mrs. John Carlisle, Mrs.

(Continued on Page 19)

 

 




 

 

 

 

T present a horse or a monkey or a
tiger cub between ﬂights at New York’s
International Airport has no place to wait
except in a cage somewhere in a cargo bay,
surrounded by crates of spare tractor parts,
precision instruments or what have you.

With the animal air freight business grow-
ing by leaps and bounds in postwar years,
the New York airport was the jumping ofi
point, the landing ﬁeld or the stop-over point
for well over 100,000 airborne animals last
year. While, for the most part. the animals
were handled expertly in the air, there were
no facilities for caring for them on the
ground. But there’s going to be.

The ASPCA has begun construction on a
new Animalport at the Airport, the ﬁrst of

its kind in the United States. The shelter
will be open around the clock to receive
and release animals for carriers, owners and
consignees. We will feed, water and exercise
the animals and provide medical and ambu-
lance service Where necessary.

The single-story 5,000-square-foot build-
ing on a 1.41 acre site will be located in the
airport’s $120,000,000 new International Air
Cargo Center, to be known as “Terminal
City,” and now under construction.

Space for Dogs, Horses and Birds

The Animalport, with an exterior of beige
brick, will have 36 individual tile kennels
with adjoining outdoor runs for cats and
dogs, 12 stalls and outdoor paddock for

 




 

Laboratory Inspection Program
{Continued from Page I)

The other case was more serious. Our
report stated:
0 Too many animals for the size of the
quarters with too few attendants in charge.
' Poor ventilation—therefore strong odor.
° N0 wall thermometers.
° Utensils rusty with rough edges.
° No means of drainage outside runs.

After consultation with those in authority
at the laboratory in question, a plan to
gradually bring conditions up to standard
was presented by us and accepted by the
laboratory. We continued to inspect the
premises frequently, and at the end of a
three-month period our inspector was able
to report that an extra attendant had been
hired, the number of animals had been re-
duced, the quarters were clean and sanitary,
new feeding utensils provided, the tempera-
ture was well-regulated, and thermometers
had been installed as well as a drain.

ASPCA’s Advice Sought

Not only has our inspection program
placed us in a position to make recommenda-
tions to the laboratories we visit, but our
advice has been sought by laboratories out-
side New York City when either plans for
construction or renovation of animal quarters
are being considered. The Department of
Pharmacology of Albany Medical College,
for instance, patterned its cat room on the
Cat Ward at the Society’s Manhattan Shelter.

And so we believe that the promise made
lo our members and contributors in 1952
and expressed in the opening of this edi-
torial is being fulﬁlled: that our laboratory
inspection. program has not only thrown a
ring of protection around a greater number
of animals, but that it has provided addi-
tional protection as well, and in so doing is
carrying out ASPCA’s principal “the greatest

good for the greatest number of animals.”

THE AMERICAN SOCIETY FOR THE
PREVENTION or CRUELTY TO ANIMALS

2‘14

Humane Slaughter Legislation

We are keeping close watch on federal
humane legislation pending in Congress.
Four bills requiring compulsory humane
slaughter regulations have been introduced
in the House of Representatives and are in
committee at this writing. They are HR-176,
HR-1880, HR-3029 and HR-3049.

As soon as these measures come out of
committee we will send our members, con-
tributors and friends material on the sub-
ject, asking them to write to key members
of Congress.

 

“Humanity Dick” Martin
(Continued from Page 5)

had allowed his personal affairs to go awry.
His estates of Connemara had fallen upon
bad times. The crops had failed and the
terrible Famine was being ushered in. Debts
began mounting and bailiffs seized much of
his property. “Humanity Dick” saw no course
but immediate flight to the Continent.

He died in poverty at Boulogne in 1834,
leaving nothing but a legacy of love for ani-
mals and a Wish that his dog be cared for
after his death. Thomas Moore pronounced
his obituary:

“There is not a cow or calf, goose or hack,
but what is in mourning for good-hearted
‘Humanity Dick’.”

 

Please Remember the ASPCA
in Your Will

FORM OF BEQUEST

I give and bequeath to The American
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals, a New York charitable
corporation having its principal office
at 441 East 92nd Street, New York,
N. Y., the sum of ____________________ Dollars.

 

 

 




ANIMAL PROTECTION

Published three times yearly by

The American Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

Founded and Incorporated 1866

Vol. 11, No. 1

Editorial Ofﬁce: 30 East 60th Street

Spring 1957

Editor, JANICE PAPRIN

 

OFFICERS

WILLIAM ROCKEFELLER, President

WILLIAM F. MORGAN, Vice-President

JAMES H. RIPLEY, Vice-President

THOMAS D. HUGHES, Vice-President

WILLIAM A. MEYERHOFF, Treasurer

WILLIAM L. BURTON, Secretary

LOUIS REYNAL, Assistant Secretary

WARREN W. MCSPADDEN, Assistant Treasurer

BOARD OF MANAGERS

JOHN D. BEALS, JR.
WILLIAM E. BUCKLEY
JOHN W. CROSS, JR.
JAMES H. JENKINS
ROBERT L. JONES
RICHARD C. KETTLES, JR.
JOSE A. MACHADO, JR.
ALASTAIR B. MARTIN
JOSEPH B. MURRAY
HUGH E. PAINE

W. Ross PROCTOR
WILLLIAM A. ROCKEFELLER
GEORGE B. WAGSTAFF

' Managers Emeritus
F. AMBROSE CLARK
HENRY J. FISHER
SAMUEL R. MILBANK

 

 

COVER PICTURE

Prance, an eight-year-Old product of
uncertain ancestry, is owned by Miss
Ann Goldstein, Manhattan. ASPCA
photographer Al Levine has known
France for years and thought it was
high time he asked the dog to pose
in front of his camera. Animal Pro-
tection staff was so delighted with the
results we snatched it for our cover.

 

 

 

Pictures unless credited are by Al Levine

ADMINISTRATION OFFICES TRafalgar 6-7700
441 East 92nd St., New York 28, N. Y. (York Ave.)
WARREN W. MCSPADDEN, General Manager
ARTHUR L. AMUNDSEN, Assistant General Manager
GEORGE H. TUSCHER, Director of Humane Work
BILLIE M. JOHNSON, Secretary to Committees
THACHER, PROFFITT, PRIZER, CRAWLEY & WOOD,
Attorney and Counsel
HOSPITAL AND CLINIC FOR ANIMALS .
441 East 92nd St., New York 28, N. Y.
RAYMOND J. GARBUTT, D.V.M., Chief Veterinarian
THOMAS A. FEGAN, Business Manager
KATHERINE M. LEHR, Appointment Secretary, TRafalgar 6-0178

EDUCATION DEPARTMENT TRafalgar 6-7700, Ext. 31
441 East 92nd St., New York 28, N. Y. (3rd Floor)
RAYMOND J. HANFIELD, Director

PUBLIC RELATIONS DEPARTMENT
30 East 60th St., New York 22, N. Y.
JUNE ELIOT, Director

MANHATTAN SHELTER . .
441 East 92nd St., New York 28, N. Y.
FRANCIS MELVIN, District Manager

BROOKLYN OFFICE AND SHELTER

233 Butler St., Brooklyn 17, N. Y.
(between Nevins and Bond Streets)

CHARLES R. WADSLEY, District Manager

BRONXIOFFICE AND SHELTER

420 Morris Park Avenue, Bronx 60, N. Y.
(between Tremont Ave. and East 178th St.)

N. MICHAEL BROMLEY, District Manager

TRafalgar 6-7700

PLaza 5-1650
TRafalgar 6-7700

TRiangle 5-9580

TYrone 2-8500

QUEENS OFFICE AND SHELTER
94-27 158th St., Jamaica 33, L. 1.
ROBERT B. F ERRIS, District Manager

RICHMOND OFFICE AND SHELTER
4 Willow Ave., Rosebank, S. I. 5, N. Y.
WALTER L. HOLLINDE, District Manager
GLEN COVE SHELTER . . .
Pratt Blvd. Ext., Glen Cove, L. I.
VINCENT J. PATTERSON, Shelter Manager

LONG BEACH SHELTER
Long Beach, L. I.

REpublic 9-4041

Glbraltar 7-1022

GLen Cove 4-5913

GEneral 1-0660

 

 




horses and other large animals, temperature
controlled areas and exercise cages for thou-
sands of tropical birds.

Animals passing through International
Airport last year ranged from household
pets to monkeys required for polio vaccine
tests, race horses, elephants, trained circus
animals and zoo exhibits.

The flying of domestic and wild animals
across oceans and continents has risen to
the point where more than 15 percent of
all air freight tonnage consists of live ani-
mals. Indicative of this new trend is the fact
that one out of every nine air passengers is
an animal, with British Overseas Airways
Corporation, one of the largest air lines,
putting its animal ﬁgure at one out of every
three passengers.

Ground Broken in January

Clearly, all these animals needing care
between planes at International Airport pre-
sented a huge problem which neither the
airport nor. the airlines were equipped to
handle. The ASPCA saw the difﬁculty and
in 1955 proposed the shelter. The carriers
and the Port of New York Authority, which
operates the airport, welcomed the idea and
a 20-year lease was signed last November.
Ground was broken in January, and com-
pletion is expected late next fall.

Before drawing plans for the shelter our
architects visited the Royal SPCA’s Animal
Hostel at London Airport. Built in 1953,
the London shelter cares for 40,000 animals

      

 

 

a month. The practical experience gained
in the four years it has operated will be
applied to the building of our Animalport.

According to the Royal SPCA, among the
problems the Animalport will have to face
is having food on hand to feed a variety of
fastidious eaters who may require such fares
as cereals (for monkeys), rice (for monkeys
from the Philippines), meat (for lions,
tigers, dogs), ﬁsh (for seals), fresh fruits
and vegetables (for monkeys and birds),
nectar (for hummingbirds) and powdered
insects (for birds).

Fees for our services will depend on the
type of care and food required, the length
of the animal’s stay and its size.

We’ll have to be prepared for animals
of all sizes ranging from a fraction-of-an-
ounce hummingbird to an 1100-pound ele-
phant. About the only animal that doesn’t
travel by air nowadays is the giraffe. Planes

just don’t have enough headroom.

We can expect customers from all climates
— birds from the warm tropics that must
be kept in heated compartments, as well
as cold-loving polar bears.

All these factors have been taken into
consideration in the building’s design. And
our 91 years of experience in handling a
variety of animals in our other shelters —~
from poisonous snakes to leopard cubs —
will come in mighty handy in operating the
ASPCA Animalport.

Architect’s sketch of ASPCA Animalport now
under construction at International Airport.

From the Ofﬁce of Alfred Easton Poor

    




 

    

 

  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     

ASPCA's Fred Kusterbeck (left) presents
medal to Pepper for helping to catch safe
crackers. Owner Harold Bridgewood looks on.

ABOVE
AND
BEYOND
THE
CALL . . .

Medal of Honor Awards

For Outstanding Bravery

Rusty, a Fire Hero, Honored

A chow dog, which awakened a family of
three in time to flee safely from a ﬁre in
their home, was presented with the bronze
medal. Rusty, a four-year-old pet, roused

6

Mr. and Mrs. Sidney Ganop and their son
Steven, 12, at 3 am. as flames broke out
in the basement of their two-family West
Bronx home. The dog barked and pawed at
Mr. and Mrs. Ganop in their bed until he
awakened them. Then, smelling smoke, the
couple roused their son and fled with the
dog to the street.

Pepper’s Barks Catch Burglar

Pepper, a terrier, was credited by police
with touching off an investigation that led
to the arrest of a burglary suspect and the
break-up of a safe-cracking gang.

The burglers entered a furniture com-
pany’s building in Astoria through a sky—
light. They ripped a hole in the floor,
smashed a door and dragged out a safe
weighing 300 pounds and containing $921.

The noise started Pepper barking. This
aroused neighbors who called police. One
suspect was arrested as he was getting into
his car, and the police put out an alarm for
four others.

Fireman Rescues Pet Cat

Fire Lieutenant Joseph W. Ryan was
cited for his rescue of a Siamese cat in a
two-alarm ﬁre that gutted the two top floors
of a ﬁve-story tenement on New York’s
Lower East Side and drove 35 persons into
the street.

The cat belonged to Mrs. Peggy Andru-
seaski and her son Mike, who fled their third
floor apartment, then remembered they had
left their pet behind.

Tinker Shows Animals on TV

A Medal of Honor recently went to the
children’s TV show “Tinker’s Workshop”
(WABC-TV, 8 am.) for the program’s
cooperation in ﬁnding homes for dogs and
cats and for instilling in children a humane
and intelligent interest in animals.

For more than two years “Tinker’s Work-
shop” has devoted a portion of the program
to animals — showing lost dogs and high-
lighting kindness to animals.

 
 

 




 

toward man. It is untrue that snakes swallow
their young to protect them.

More remarkable than these falsely cred-
ited characteristics are the real facts about
snakes.

Everything about a snake is designed
around the key fact that it has no arms or
legs. To meet this unique problem nature
has given it specialized equipment and pecu-
liar skills.

Most Snakes Hatch from Eggs

Some snakes are born live, but the ma-
jority — about three fourths of all snakes
—— hatch from eggs. The snake egg is not
brittle like a bird’s but slightly malleable. It
may grow as much as one third before
hatching. Some eggs hatch within four days,
others take as long as 90, and there are
sometimes a hundred in one clutch.

From the moment of hatching a baby
snake is ready to cope with the world.
Among poisonous snakes a newly hatched
baby is already venomous and knows in-
stinctively how to use its equipment. A rattle-
snake two minutes old can coil and strike
expertly.

During the ﬁrst year a snake doubles in
length and may triple the second year. Then
the rate of growth slows, but never entirely
stops during the snake’s lifetime which under
ideal natural conditions may be 30 years or
longer for some species.

Gets New Skin Regularly

Its continuing growth calls for a frequent
change of wardrobe. It actually outgrows
its clothing, or skin every few weeks during
the ﬁrst year and even adult snakes re-
outﬁt themselves regularly. New skin forms
under the old. And when, by pushing, pull-
ing and contracting, the outer skin is pushed
off, inside out like a peeled glove, the body
emerges wearing a new coat of overlapping
tough scales. Even the eyes are covered, for
a snake has no eyelids.

The backbone is engineered for tremen-
dous suppleness. Its vertebrae are articulated
by perfect ball and socket joints. To each

vertebra is attached a pair of ribs. (Some
snakes have more than 300 pairs.) The
secret of the snake’s gliding ability and
speedy motivation lies in the fact that each
rib is joined by a cartilage and a set of
powerful muscles to one of the scales on
the snake’s underside. The black mamba of
Africa, possibly the fastest snake in the
world, has been credited with speeds of 30
to 40 miles per hour.

Some snakes kill their prey by constric-
tion (boa constrictors, pythons, anacondas
and garter snakes fall in this group) ; some
kill by means of deadly venom (cobras,
vipers, copperheads, water moccasins and
rattlesnakes are in this group).

Because the snake may be able to catch
prey at undependable intervals, nature has
insured that it can swallow a bulk that will
keep it going through a fast of more than a
year. Giant snakes are capable of swallowing
a deer, but the average snake feeds on
fowl, rodents, lizards, insects, frogs or toads.

A snake has six rows of teeth: two in its
lower jaw, two above, two more in the roof
of the mouth. Needle sharp, the teeth grow
inward, making it almost impossible for a
seized small animal to pull away.

Poisonous Species

In the poisonous species, one or two pairs
of teeth are lengthened into fangs resembling
hypodermic needles, and connected with sacs
of poison in the snake’s cheeks. At the
moment of biting the snake gives a powerful
squeeze to these sacs and squirts a jet of
venom into the victim. This poison is em-
ployed mainly to paralyze food prey. Only
rarely is it directed against big animals or
human beings, and then in self defense. For,
far from being aggressive, most snakes want
nothing more than to be left alone.

There is a greater chance of being struck
by lightning than of being bitten by a
venomous snake in the United States. None-
theless, since it costs nothing to be prepared
in case of such a rare accident, here are
some things to remember:

(Continued on Page 22)

9

 




 

 

 

 

 

   

Edgar M. Smith

HERE’S somewhat more to ASPCA op-

eration than the veterinarian in the Hos-
pital, the driver who calls for an unwanted
animal and the agent who investigates
cruelty.

A man you never see holds down one of
our most important behind-the-scenes jobs.
He’s Edgar M. Smith, ASPCA’s Purchasing
Agent. His unique job calls for him to keep
ASPCA cupboards ﬁlled with a conglomerate
assortment of supplies, even including yes-
terday’s newspapers.

Mr. Smith’s order book last year contained
such entries as 48 tons of dog food, ﬁve tons
of cat food, 9,000 prescription bottles, 1,800
X-ray ﬁlms, 5,000 yards of bandaging, 3,000
pounds of evaporated milk, 40,000 gallons
of gasoline for our ambulances, 129,000
paper plates used as feeding dishes, and 25
tons of newspapers and two tons of sawdust
for lining cages.

ASPCA’s Special Needs

His greatest problem is that many of the
items peculiar to ASPCA operations just
aren’t manufactured. Yet in 20 years our
purchasing agent has never been stumped.
If he can’t ﬁnd the item he’s looking for,
he’ll get the closest thing to it and have it

12

MR. SMITH GOES 1'0 MARKET

 

 

remade in our own shop. Or we’ll design
a new item and have it made to our speci-
ﬁcations.

For instance, he buys standard panel
trucks which our shop turns into animal
ambulances by adding sheet metal interiors
and wire mesh partitions for cages.

We have even started people in business
to supply us. Years ago, when we were in
the market for wooden boxes for carrying
cats, nobody made them. The Industrial
Home for the Blind in Brooklyn was urged
to set up a wood working shop and that
organization has been making our cat boxes
ever since.

Buys from Established Firms

Some ﬁrms supplying us were doing busi-
ness with the ASPCA even before Smith’s
time. Two brothers, now in their 60’s, suc-
ceeded their harness-maker father in the job
of making the leather gauntlets our men
wear when picking up a troublesome animal.

He does business with new ﬁrms, too,
interviewing new salesmen every day. He
recalls one eager beaver who tried to demon-
strate the indestructibility of his company’s
pills by bouncing them on the ﬂoor.

 




 

OUR HOSPITAL NEEDS...

     

APPLICATOR
$375

 

xi"
- 5‘
4. \ ~ \
-7“- \ \
\ xw/

 

 

Beta radiation is now accepted as the best treat-
ment for destroying certain growths and inflamma-
tory conditions in the eye. This instrument contains

radioactive strontium 90, a fission product isotope.

Use of applicators containing this substance is
controlled by the Atomic Energy Commission and,
after long negotiation, this body has granted us

authorization to buy the instrument.

If the ASPCA Hospital had the funds to purchase
the beta ray applicator, an additional step toward

the control of eye disease in animals would be

 

accomplished.

Only one animal hospital in the country now uses this appli-
cator. With your help the ASPCA Hospital can be the second.

15

 




 

 

 

Pet Indus try Top: $3 Billion

Owning and caring for a wide assort-
ment of pets is costing Americans more than
$3 billion a year and the variety of sup-
plies and services offered in this ﬁeld is
steadily increasing, according to The Wall
Street Journal, which recently surveyed the
pet industry.

In many respects, man’s best friend ap-
pears to be doing better than man himself,
reports the Journal. Even allowing for price
increases, spending on dogs and other ani-
mals has shot up sharply the past few years.
One authority claims pet fanciers are spend—
ing about ten times as much on some of
their charges as they did in 1936. In the
two decades humans in this country have
a little more than doubled their per capita
spending.

Growing demand. for necessities and lux-
uries has brought substantial business to a
number of industries catering to "the pet
population. Major meat packing concerns,
for example, reap a tidy sum for helping
feed the nation’s estimated 22.5 million dogs
and 25 to 30 million cats. Americans spent
$275 million for prepared dog foods last
year, including 1.5 billion cans of dog food
and 800 million pounds of: dry dog food, a
57 percent rise since 1950.

Average Dog Lives to 12

Better diet partly accounts for the length-
ening life span of dogs and. cats. Dogs now
live to an average of 12 years. In 1930, the
average dog was defying statistics if he
lived past seven years.

Advances in veterinary medicine also have
contributed to animal longevity. Most drug
stores and all pet shops stock a variety of
drugs for pets, including the latest antibiotic
drugs and vitamin preparations, as well as
ointments, eye wash, tooth brushes, inhalants
for colds and asthma, vitamins, sedatives,
and, of course, flea powder.

In the past, leaders in veterinary medi-

cines were companies which specialized in
the animal ﬁeld, but more recently, with the
popularity of antibiotics and the sulfa drugs,
most of the major producers of drugs for
human consumption have entered the animal
medicine field. Drug sales of pet remedies
last year totaled more than $4 million.

The growing penchant for pets has per-
suaded many families to own more than one.
Chances are good that the second pet in
most households is a parakeet. Ownership of
these colorful, sometimes talkative parrot-
like birds has increased ten-fold since 1951.
One latest pet census shows more than 19
million pet birds in some 11 million homes,
and foresees that total parakeet food sales
will reach $65 million next year.

The bird cage industry has an. annual
volume of about $12 million. Among cur-
rently-popular models are split-level and
ranch-style cages, retailing from $3.95 to
$10. A fancy cage may cost as much as
$200.

But pet owners, whether or not they can
afford these fancy prices, all agree that once
they own a pet they can never be without:
one.

Women’s Division Forms

Long Island Committee
(Continued from Page 18)

Harry Q. M. Clawson, Mrs. Ronald Craig-
myle, Jr., Mrs. Albert Elias, Mrs. Raymond
French, Mrs. F. Hubbs Kettles, Mrs. Spencer
Murphy, Mrs. Eben Pync, Mrs. Bernard
Hose. Mrs. \Villiam Scoble, Mrs. Donald
Sinclair, Mrs. Colton P. Wagner.

When the Glen Cove Shelter, our ﬁrst
outside New York City, opened in October,
it was serving only the City of Glen Cove.
The shelter, located on Pratt Boulevard
Extension, was so successful that other near-
by communities were quick to request its
services.

19

 




 

 

 

Pet Shop Fined in

Easter Chick Sale

New York City’s pet shops were kept
under constant watch during the pre-Easter
season to prevent them from Violating the
law by selling baby chicks. Section 185-a of
the Penal Law of the State of New York
states that no person “shall sell, offer for
sale, barter, or give away living chicks,
ducklings or other fowl under two months of
age in a quantity less than six.” This is based
on the assumption that anyone buying less
than six is not purchasing them for raising
or breeding purposes, but as inappropriate
gifts for children.

In the ﬁrst violation of the season to come
to our attention one pet shop owner was ap-
prehended by Special Agent Raymond J.
Mulligan, who stopped a customer emerging
from a shop on Third Avenue with two baby
chicks in a cardboard box.

The owner pleaded guilty in the Lower
Manhattan Magistrate’s Court and was ﬁned
$10 by the Magistrate.

 

Long Island Obedience Class

The ASPCA is sponsoring a series of
10-week courses in obedience training for
Long Island dogs and their owners. Classes
are held in the gymnasium of the East
School, Glen Cove, on Tuesdays.

Carl S. Voelcker, of Glen Cove, who ar-
ranged the course, has secured the services
of the well-known trainer and judge, John
Ringwald, as the instructor. Fee for the
course is $10.

 

Talent Scout for Animals
(Continued from Page II)

lions, monkeys, bears, camels and elephants
across the country she can tap when the
right part comes along.

Among her best TV clients are Ed Sulli-
van, Arthur Godfrey, Jackie Gleason and

22

the Hit Parade. Her Broadway stage credits
besides “Li’l Abner” include a Yorkshire
terrier in “Champagne Complex,” and
Peggy, an old English sheep dog that
knocked ’em dead all during the run of
“King of Hearts.”

 

All About Snakes
(Continued from Page 9)

The venom must enter the bloodstream to
do its damage. The poison spreads slowly,
but panic, alcohol, excitement or running
will speed up the circulation and rapidity
with which the venom is absorbed. Be calm,
don’t run, don’t drink whiskey or burn the
wound.

Instead, apply a not-too-tight tourniquet
above the bite, loosening it briefly at 15-
minute intervals. With a sharp instrument,
such as a razor blade or a knife, make a
cross cut over each fang mark and suck
the wound to draw out as much venom as
possible. Get to a doctor as quickly as you
can without rushing.

Although some people worry about snake
bite far out of proportion to the potential
danger, a recent trend in the opposite direc-
tion ﬁnds more and more city people keep-
ing snakes as pets. Harboring poisonous
snakes is against the law in New York City,
but many ﬁnd that small harmless snakes
can afford a great deal of pleasure. Accord-
ing to some herpetologists they make good
apartment pets; they are quiet, odorless and
maintenance costs are low.

“The biggest headache,” as one fancier
put it, “is to keep from alienating family,
friends and neighbors.”

 

Prevent the birth of unwanted
animals. Have your female dog
or cat spayed. Consult your

veterinarian.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




Every Dog Should
Own A Child ~

Our dog here has just acquired a
boy -- owns him lock, stock and
barrel right now, as you can
easﬂy see.

The dog will teach him many
good things, loyalty, patience
and kindness among them.
At the same time

the dog will receive

love and a long healthy

life of tail wagging and
rolling over.

This adoption story was
repeated 15,086 times at
ASPCA Shelters last year,
when we placed this
record-breaking number of
animals in homes where
they are now
“somebody’s

pet."

But we’re aiming

still higher. With financial
assistance from you we’re confident
we can do still better next year. '
Please mail your gift in the
enclosed envelope to:

ASPCA ADOPTION SERVICE

 




 

 

 

ASPCA’s Laboratory Inspection Program

A Report

The following excerpt is taken from The
ASPCA Story, a statement of ASPCA’s
policy in relation to the Metcalf—Hatch Act,
which was sent to all members and con-
tributors of the Society in June 1952:

“In the Metcalf—Hatch Law the Board
of Managers of the ASPCA sees, for the
ﬁrst time in the history of its long ﬁght
for animal welfare, an opportunity for un-
limited and unscheduled inspection of
experimental laboratories. This opens up
to its jurisdiction an entirely new and
wider area in which to operate for the
protection of animals.”

Today, almost ﬁve years after these words
were printed they can be repeated and em-
phasized with even greater assurance based
on practical experience.

Although the right to inspect by the
ASPCA or other humane organizations is
not written into the Law, the ASPCA felt
conﬁdent the privilege to inspect would not
be denied us by the laboratories requisition-
ing animals from our Shelters.

Laboratories Open Doors

From the time the Metcalf-Hatch Act he-
came eliective on July I, 1952, this as-
sumption proved to be correct. There was
never a single instance among the 21 labora-
tories visited by ASPCA inspectors where
entree was refused, inspection discouraged
or records not willingly produced. Nor has
there ever been any observance of pain or
suffering on the part of animals, nor any
operation performed without the proper use
of anesthesia.

After each visit to a laboratory the in-

specting agent ﬁles a written report which
becomes part of the Society’s permanent
records. This report is broken down into
three sections with from three to nine ques-
tions under each section. They deal with:

1. Care and Treatment of Animals
Laboratory Records
Inspector’s Observations of Experi-
mental Work

Typical of the kind of questions to be
answered by our inspector are the following:

g... N

° Are quarters or cages large enough so
each animal can stand, sit, and be in a
normal position and turn around at ease?

' Is the food given to the animals whole-
some and in suﬂicient quantity for the
type of animal involved?

° The scientiﬁc use to which the animal is
or was put.

' At the conclusion 0/ the experiment was
animal given post-operative care equiva-
lent to that rendered human beings fol-
lowing an operation?

In any instance where an answer to such
questions might be in the negative, the in-
spector is required to make a detailed re-
port of the circumstances.

Two Conditions Corrected

In four and a half years there have been
but two negative reports. In each case the
conditions criticized by our inspectors were
corrected within a relatively short period
of time in accordance with recommendations
made by the Society.

In one case smoke from a faulty incin-
erator was seeping into the animal quarters.
The attendant was aware of the situation
but explained that new animal quarters
were being readied in another wing of the
building. Our inspector suggested that in the
interim prior to moving the animals the
incinerator not be used at full-blast and that
an exhaust fan be placed in the animal
room. The building’s engineer was called in.
When our agent repeated his suggestions,
they were accepted and acted upon before
the next inspection.

(Continued on Page 24)

 




 

 

 

Photograph of a portrait of Richard Martin
at Royal SPCA Headquarters, 105 Jermyn
Street, London, 5. W. 1, England.

OVE of animals is traditional in the
Irish. To the Irishman the horse is held
in the same esteem as the Hindu holds the
cow—to the point of reverence! Is it any
wonder, then, that the author of the ﬁrst law
ever passed in any country to protect animals
was an Irishman named Richard “Humanity
Dick” Martin.

His portrait hangs in the board room of
the Royal SPCA in London. You see a
man with a noble, digniﬁed expression, the
eyes reﬂecting great powers of observation
as well as inward vision. If you look closely
you will see that the sensitive curve of the
brow is in strange contrast with a square
jaw, proclaiming obstinacyl

In character Richard Martin was a quick-
tempered man, an impulsive duellist (with
scars of several pistol shots on his body to
prove it) which brought upon him the nick-
name of “Hair-trigger” Martin. But beneath
the crust he was human and understanding
beyond the meaning of rhetoric, always
ready to laugh at himself. And he knew that

4.

 

“HUMANITY lllCll”

 

MARTIN

by Patrick Mahony

Patrick Mahony, known on both sides of the
Atlantic as an authority on Ireland, is an
author, playwright, humorist, lecturer and
world-traveler. In his article about Richard
Martin, the founder of the humane movement,
Mahony brings to light many new facts which
he uncovered in interviews with the Martin
family in Ireland.

people laughed at him, for he was very ec-
centric. His birth was in the year 1745. Thus
he reached his majority at a cultured yet
callous period when most people could not
understand a man who cared little for his
own life, only for the lives of animals.

Friend of the “Brute Creation”

This friend of the “brute creation,” as the
Animal Kingdom was then called, was how-
ever a force to be reckoned with. From his
father he inherited two hundred thousand
acres in the West of Ireland, known as Con-
nemara. Richard ruled with absolute power
in his castle over this immense rock-strewn
moorland and bog. He cared for the Welfare
of his subjects and loved the treasures of his
kingdom with its mountains and streams and
rugged coast line, lorded over by the majes-
tic, and often furious, Atlantic. From ship
wreckage and seaweed wrack his people made
a bare living and even today the kelp indus-
try, from which chemicals are manufactured,

supports the population to some extent, the

 




 

 

 

 

OR animal owners who are pressed for

time or have unusual problems, our
Hospital has inaugurated a new Appoint-
ment Service.

For a small additional charge appoint-
ments may be made in advance so that no
waiting is necessary. By calling Mrs. Kath-
erine M. Lehr, our red-haired, efficient Ap-
pointment Secretary, at Trafalgar 6-0178,
a patient can be scheduled during the hours
between 10 and 2 and between 2 and 4.

Despite the fact that our Hospital has a
staff of ten doctors, patients sometimes have
to wait as long as an hour, particularly
on Saturdays, before seeing a doctor. Of
course, emergency cases have always been
taken immediately and will continue to be.

Improved Service Oﬂered

The waiting is caused by the volume of
patients that come to see us. The Hospital
cared for more than 30,000 in 1956 —— an
increase of 11,000 in the last ﬁve years. And
those patients are receiving better care than
ever before, because of new developments in
the world of veterinary science.

We now have two completely furnished
surgery rooms and a recovery room where
an animal is under constant supervision as
it comes out of the anesthesia. An improved
aseptic technique is used in surgery.

A special laboratory was equipped last
year with a high-powered microscope, a
centrifuge, a clinical camera, a ﬁnely bal-
anced scale and other analytical instruments,
all operated by a highly trained laboratory
technician.

The new treatment room has an oxygen
tent, a resuscitator, a diathermy machine
and a dog dryer, all contributed by gener-
ous donors. We hope to add a beta ray ap-
plicator for treating eye growths. (Please
see page 15.)

One of the greatest advances in better
hospitalization is our Daynemouth Ward for
the isolation of communicable diseases. It
is self-contained, with its own recovery
rooms, attendants, sterilizers, instruments
and feeding dishes.

More and more animal owners are using
these added services, and the new Appoint-
ment Service is expected to extend our vet-
erinary help to pets belonging to owners
whose busy schedules did not permit them
to take advantage of our professional serv-
ices heretofore.

 

Katherine M. Lehr

 




 

 

 

 

 

EVV YORK, greatest metropolis in the
world, home of skyscrapers, bright

lights and traffic problems, still has a bit
of backwoods territory where Daniel Boone
would feel right at home.

One such area is Staten Island, where
2,000 opossum still roam the woods, and
where residents are not too surprised to ﬁnd
a raccoon, a deer or a ten-foot snake in the
backyard.

Sometimes, though, the big city proves too
much for the wildlife and the Society’s Staten
Island Shelter has a problem on its hands.
One recent problem was a seal that floated
down from up north and was struck by a
ship’s propeller in New York harbor. Four
ASPCA men carried the 250 pound seal
into the shelter’s bathtub. Despite constant
care the severely wounded animal died.
Somebody discovered it was a rare specimen
and a taxidermist ﬁxed it up for a museum.

Ducks in the Soup

Thousands of ducks going south for the
winter stop off at Staten Island to feed and
rest. This year an oil tank in New Jersey
sprung a leak, coating the waters for miles
around with 30,000 gallons of oil. The ducks
got it on their wings and couldn’t ﬂy. Our
Shelter sent out word that residents could
help by ﬁnding the birds and washing their
wings with a vegetable oil. Many were thus
saved and replaced in clean inland lakes.

Recently the shelter has had to cope with
a rash of wild animal incidents. Two deer

10

swam across the channel from New Jersey
shores. A raccoon sneaked into a clothing
store during the night and greeted the owner
at the door in the morning. An owl with a
four-foot wing span ﬂew into an upper-floor
office and couldn’t get out.

A11 opossum that came out of the woods
at night to forage for food peered out at a
housewife from her garbage can when she
went to dump her garbage. A squirrel made
a nest in a chimney and when the owner
tried to coax it out of the ﬁreplace it
scampered sooty footprints all over his wall.

Monkey Business

Number one on the Island’s “most
wanted” list was a rhesus monkey that
eluded capture for two years. No one knew
where he came from, but he was wanted for
robbery, theft, breaking and entering, assault
and battery and disturbing the peace.

One of his favorite stunts was a tight-
rope act on clotheslines in the neighbor—
hood. For an encore he would pull out the
clothes pins and try on the clothes. Another
stunt was dropping from trees into baby
carriages, snatching the baby’s bottle and
drinking the milk as the mother ran fran-
tically for help. Once he opened the door
of a prize aviary and freed all the birds.

For two years the culprit lived on what he
could steal from gardens until ASPCA men
cornered him in a cellar and sent him away
for life—to the Staten Island Zoo.




On the whole, though, he deals with well-
established and reliable suppliers, even in-
cluding the New York Police Department.
By special permission of the Police Commis-
sioner, ASPCA Special Agents and License
Ofﬁcers wear police regulation blue poplin
shirts sold only by the Police Department’s
own shop.

Smith, A World War l Veteran

A graduate of Cornell University and a
First Lieutenant of Field Artillery in World
War I, Mr. Smith is an active American
Legion member of the John Purroy Mitchel
Post. In his off hours he’s also a stamp col-
lector, a camera bug and sings baritone with
the Downtown Glee Club, which gives two
concerts a year at Carnegie Hall.

The most difﬁcult period for Mr. Smith
was not World War I in the Argonne, but
World War II at ASPCA. “Supplies were
curtailed for every endeavor then,” he re-
calls, “But ASPCA was harder hit than most.
The ration board completely left us out of
all ration allotments.”

Shortages of gasoline, metal, tires, tubes
and lumber hit us hard. Because of the
metal shortage our dog license tags, for in-
stance, were made of pressed ﬁber. Some
dogs found them quite tasty and chewed
them up.

The shortage of canned evaporated milk
caused the biggest upset. The ration board
told Smith evaporated milk was being saved
for nursing mothers. It was unimpressed
when he said he needed it for nursing
mothers too —— cats.

Cats Pass Up Dry Milk

He considered himself lucky then to be
able to get 200 pounds of dry milk from
Wisconsin. “We mixed it carefully, prepared
an appetizing lunch and served it to the
cats in our shelters. The animals refused to
touch it.” Mr. Smith ended up by buying
the much more expensive and hard to store

bottled fresh milk.

The greatest changes in the last 20 years
have been in the purchase of food. During
the purchasing agent’s ﬁrst year with the
Society he bought 3,000 pounds of bran,
hay and oats for the horses that were our
steady customers. Today, of course, our
shelters see few horses.

Hospital Patients Get Special Diets

Years ago, he used to buy tons of fresh
meat, ﬁsh and vegetables for dogs and cats.
Mixing our own formulas in our kitchens
was then a full-time job. Nowadays, scien-
tiﬁcally prepared foods supply our animals
with a more nourishing diet and pare down
the cost of meal preparation. He even buys
pre-packaged special formula diets for our
hospital patients. Diets are now available
for reducing, pregnant mothers, growing
puppies, animals with vaccinations, intes-
tinal disorders and kidney diseases.

“One of the most interesting aspects of my
work,” says Mr. Smith, “is ordering supplies
and equipment for the Hospital. Our whole
set-up is patterned so closely after human
hospitals that I’m always amazed to ﬁnd that
many of our needs are also standard items
in similar institutions for humans.” He cites
his orders for operating tables, surgical in-
struments, sterilizers, prescription bottles,
biologicals, anti-biotics, serums, drugs and
even the new tranquilizers.

Helps Keep ASPCA Clean

Part of Mr. Smith’s job is buying sup-
plies to keep ASPCA sparkling clean. In
1956 our cleanliness added up to 250
brooms, 300 floor mops, 186 gallons of
paint, 1,800 gallons of cleaner and disin-
fectant and several thousand pounds of
cleaning rags.

In the Smith home, however, the Purchas-
ing Agent is relieved to relinquish the mar-
keting to his wife. “All I do at home is
carry the packages,” says the man who buys
everything from aspirin to zinc for the

ASPCA.

13

 




 

 

 

 

Hanﬁeld Named
Education Director

Raymond J. Hanﬁeld, long prominent in
the humane ﬁeld, has joined the ASPCA

as Director of Education.

Since he was a little feller, sitting on his
grandpa’s knee listening to animal stories,
Mr. Hanfield’s interest in their needs and
welfare has been his motivating force.

His joint interest is children. He has
served in several official capacities with The
Boy Scouts of America, and is, at present,
a merit badge counselor for the Alexander
‘ Hamilton Council. He also writes articles
on animals on occasion for the Boy and
Girl Scout and Camp Fire Girls magazines.
At one time the new ASPCA Education
Director was President of the Hudson County
SPCA, New Jersey, having joined the So-
ciety years earlier as a junior member.
Subsequently he became Secretary of the
National Dog Welfare Guild and was with
them for a ten-year period, culminating
when he joined our staff.

Mr. Hanﬁeld is still the commentator and
producer of the weekly radio show Val
Frank’s Your Dog and Mine. The program,
broadcast for the last 17 years, is heard
each Saturday at 8:30 p.m. on WAAT.

So much for the past. As to the future:
Ray Hanﬁeld is busy laying plans to expand
our educational activities in the schools, to
set up a comprehensive reference library
and to increase our motion picture facilities.

20

A Memorial for Old Drum

When Senator George Graham Vest paid
his famous tribute to the dog in the old
Court House in Warrensburg, Missouri, in
1870, he appealed to the hearts of dog lovers
everywhere when he said: “The one abso-
lutely unselﬁsh friend that a man can have
in this selﬁsh world, the one that never
deserts him, the one that never proves un-
grateful or treacherous, is his dog.”

That Eulogy of Senator Vest won the case
for Charles Burden whose favorite hound,
Drum, was shot by a neighbor, Leonidas
Hornsby, who had sworn to kill the ﬁrst
dog that came on his place after he had
lost a number of sheep.

Burden sued Hornsby for damages and
the trial became one of the strangest in the
history of that section of the country. Sev-
eral appeals were made till Hornsby ﬁnally
took it to the Supreme Court of Missouri.
Burden, however, was awarded $50 dam-
ages for the loss of his favorite hunting dog,
Drum. Vest’s Eulogy to the dog, which he
made in his ﬁnal appeal to the jury, won
the case and became a classic speech.

When Senator Vest said: “Gentlemen of
the jury, a man’s dog stands by him in pros-
perity and poverty, in health and sickness,”
he touched a common bond of relationship
in all dog lovers.

The Missouri Historical Society has placed
a plaque on the old Court House, scene of
Vest’s Eulogy, recognizing it as a historic
spot in the state, and now after 87 years
the Chamber of Commerce of Warrensburg,
is planning to immortalize Old Drum in a
statue.

 

According to law. all dogs in New
York City. regardless of age. must
have a license. Send check or money

order for $3 to the ASPCA Shelter

in your borough.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

What the Well Dressed
Dog Will Wear in 1957

Other morning Manhattan’s license de-
partment received three letters—one from a
Master Sergeant in Germany, another from
Paris, France and one from Denver, Col-
orado. All three included requests for re-
newal of New York City dog licenses.

Made us happy to see that owners think
the license is so valuable they renew even
halfway around the world. Set us thinking,
though, about people right here in New York
who may forget renewals are due by April
30, according to law.

A $3 fee sent to the ASPCA Shelter in
your borough will protect your dog if he’s
lost. Over 4,000 lost dogs got home safely
last year because of the license tag on their
collars.

Our Education Department’s classroom
aviary is twittering with the hum of a
maternity ward now that we’re breeding
parakeets and giving the young birds to
school classes. In a new project to encourage
youngsters to participate in worthwhile daily
experiences with animals in school, we’ve
raised 20 baby parakeets and presented them
to classes and their teachers to care for.

The New Bronx Shelter is getting to be
quite a show place. Bronx residents came in
to look. They saw and stayed to adopt an
animal. Figures are way up on adoptions
due in considerable part to our beautiful
glass fronted adoption cages.

Several groups of Boy and Girl Scouts
have been shown through the building and
others are welcome. Leaders can call

SHELTER NOTES

TYrone 2-8500 for an appointment, asking
for Mr. Bromley, the genial District Man-
ager.

.x.

We are pleased to announce that on
March 1 we opened a shelter in Long Beach,
our seventh shelter, and the second outside
New York City. (Glen Cove Shelter was the
ﬁrst.) At present we are operating in quar-
ters where the Long Beach dog pound was
located. The facilities do not meet with
the high standards set by the Society for
our other shelters, but under our agreement
with Long Beach, that city will either con-
struct a new shelter for us, or will purchase
an existing structure for renovation by Oc-

tober 15, 1957.

An Army major left his dog behind when
he and his wife and three children went to
Germany. His sister-in-law was to send
Mugsy on a later plane, but the dog had
other ideas. Bound for Germany via a KLM
airliner, the dog scooted away from handlers
at international. Airport and became the ob-
ject of. a fruitless search by airline personnel,
Port Authority and New York Police.

Two hours later the dog walked up to two
little girls in Ozone Park. They slipped a
rope around the dog’s neck and took her
home, while parents called ASPCA’S Queens
Shelter. Mugsy was claimed at the Shelter
by the Major’s sister-in-law and now a black,
brown and white dog, partly spitz and com-
pletely shaggy, is ﬁnally on her way to re-
join her family in Germany, thanks to two
little girls, age 6 and 7.

23

 




ASPCA

INDEX

ASPCA’s Laboratory Inspection Program .

ASPCA to Build Animalport at
International Airport

”Humanity Dick" Martin
Above and Beyond the Call
Trafalgar 6-0178

All About Snakes
Backwoods of New York
Talent Scout for Animals
Mr. Smith Goes to Market .
The Doctor Listens

Our Hospital Needs .
Animal Antics

Women’s Division Forms
Long Island Committee .

Pet Industry Tops $3 Billion . . . . l9
Hanﬁeld Named Education Director . . 20
A Memorial for Old Drum . . . . . 20
Letters . . . . . . . . . . . 21
Shelter Notes . . . . . . 23

Every Dog Should Own a Child
Inside back cover

The American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

Lerman Printing Co., N.Y.C.

 




 

 

 

 

Hotel Strictly for the Birds
NEW YORK — The Barclay Hotel here

announced recently that it was opening an
aviary in the lobby of the hotel as a gratis
vacation home for canaries or tropical birds
belonging to the hotel’s out-of—town guests.

Pachyderm Poster Girl

ILLINOIS — Posters were issued in
Champaign for Jean, a missing 600-pound
elephant. The posters were made up “so peo-
ple will recognize her if they see her.”

When Silence Proved Golden
CALIFORNIA —~ Neighbors of the owner

of a parrot named Pretty Boy complained
to police that the parrot was arrogant and
a disruptive nuisance with his chatter.
Police assigned an ofﬁcer to investigate.
After 45 minutes the cop left. Pretty Boy,
wise for his 18 years, had uttered nary a
word, nice or naughty.

Gorilla Birth Explodes Theory
COLUMBUS —~ The ﬁrst gorilla ever

born in capitivity has set the zoological
world on its ear. Hers is a triple triumph.
She marks the ﬁrst gorilla breeding, ﬁrst
conception and ﬁrst birth in captivity.

“Sweetie Face,” born at the Columbus
Municipal Zoo, exploded some theories that
had been held 100 years.

Some authorities believe that physically,
at least, the gorilla is the closest animal
to man and the birth will help such ﬁelds
as human psychology, animal behavior and

16

gynecology. Scientists hope a study of the
gorilla’s development will provide a key to
the evolution of humane behavior from pre-
historic times to the present.

Church Blesses Animals
CONNECTICUT — The blessing of ani-

mals on St. Francis Day, a rite long ob-
served in many churches in England, is also
being observed in St. Andrew’s Protestant
Episcopal Church in Stamford.

Dogs, cats, horses and mynah birds as-
sembled on the green in front of the church
on St. Francis Day as the Rector said, “All
creatures are a part of God’s creation. When
Noah went into the ark he took not only
mankind, but two of every beast.”

Dog Assists Mailman
LONG ISLAND —~ Four years ago the

mailman delivered mail to a home in Kew
Gardens Hills. There was a dog in the front
yard and he patted the dog’s head. Ever
since they have been good friends, and every
day, rain or shine, Lovey, a German shep-
herd, accompanies the mailman on his ap-
pointed rounds.

An unusual story? We think there are
many cases like it. At least one for each
story about a dog biting a mailman.

Lonely Doe Adopts Calf
MINNESOTA — A farmer searching his

pasture for a newborn calf that had failed to
come to the farmyard with its mother, found
the calf had been kidnapped — or adopted

 

 

 

— by a doe. The deer refused to leave the
calf, and the farmer had to drive it off.

Where There’s a Will . . .

A retired Philadelphia businessman left
a $12,000 trust fund for his Cuban parrot
and cocker spaniel; only $1,500 to be di-
vided between a niece and a nephew. When
the two relatives took the case to court, the
judge decreed the will’s terms be carried out.

A South African woman bequeathed $560
in trust to each of her seven pet lizards,
with the stipulation that the money go to her
husband after they died.

A Crystal Lake, 111., woman left her entire
$25,000 estate to her dog, Duke, to provide
him with T-bone steaks for life.

A San Leandro, Calif. woman willed
$6,000 for care of Susie, her cat. She left
the cat’s menu: prawns for breakfast, beef
kidney for lunch and beef liver for dinner.

A Hep Cat
MEMPHIS —— A woman called a radio

station and commended the station for
broadcasting baseball games. “You under-
stand,” she told the announcer, “I don’t
like baseball myself, but my cat does.”

Army Grounds Pigeon Corps
WASHINGTON — The Army homing

pigeon has joined the military mule and
horse in retirement. Its faithful wings are
no match for electronic communications.
The Army announced recently that its
pigeon-training activity at Fort Monmouth,

N. J., long a headquarters for breeding and
training, was being closed. The Army will
sell most of its 1,000 pigeons, but is making
special provisions for the 18 pigeon heroes
who saved American lives during combat.
It hopes to place them in zoos.

When Is a Cat Not a Cat?

CALIFORNIA — A family plagued with
cries of a “ghost cat” they thought was
trapped in the walls of their new $20,000
house, ripped apart sections of the walls
only to ﬁnd that the bowling cries which
kept them awake at night came from a
meowing water meter.

Pigeon Hitches Plane Ride

NEW YORK —— A homing pigeon ﬂew
from Washington to New York City without
flapping a wing. The bird was a stowaway in
the baggage compartment of an Eastern Air
Lines Plane that arrived at LaGuardia Field.

Indian Dogs Held Sacred

INDIA —— In certain parts of India dogs
are regarded as sacred. According to a
legend, when the prophet ascended to heaven
his dog followed him as usual. The gods,
however, would not allow the canine to go
beyond a certain point; there the dog
awaited its master’s return.

One modern result of this belief is that
strays in the ancient town of the Rajput
Kings, Jodhpur, are housed spaciously, and
fed and treated by the town council as-
sisted by charitable institutions.

17

 




