 

 

 

December 1955

THEANIMALWORLD * 141

 

 

. .¢>m>;~

Sittingbourne Division entry in the local Carnival

‘THEY ASKED FOR IT’

One of the RSPCA school lecturers was delighted
to ﬁnd 100 per cent attendance for her talk at a
school. Her delight sprang from the fact that the
Headmaster told her that he had said the children
could attend the lecture or not just as they chose!

Since the last report 154 lectures were given in
schools in Westmorland, Denbighshire, Bucking—
hamshire, Hertfordshire, Sussex, Berkshire,
Hampshire, Nottinghamshire, Port Talbot, Farnv

 

ham, Tunbridge Wells, Oxford and the London
area. A Children’s Cinema Club in Clapham
Junction, a Wesley Junior Guild in Wealdstone,
a Boys’ Club in Hoddesdon, the Battle St John
Ambulance Cadets, Scouts and Guides, Ashing’
don Animal Defenders, Colchester Natural His,
tory Society, the Fulham Young Britons, a chila
dren’s meeting at a Tottenham Library and a
Young People’s Association in Wandsworth
were also addressed.

Thirty—six new Animal Defender Groups were
formed; 286 children joined the Headquarters
Group.

REMOVED FOR THEIR OWN SAFETY

A cygnet ﬂying over the bridge dividing the strip
of water at the Grove Park, Carshalton, collided
with a bus. The bird was so badly injured that
Segior Inspector Reed had to give it a humane
en .

The cygnets have made the journey over the
bridge several times and because of risks of injury
they have been moved to safer waters by Senior
Inspector Reed and Inspector Keech. Permission
for the move was given by the Carshalton Park
Superintendent.

 

BRANCH

 

‘BEST LOVED’

Mr 5 Sykes, Ely auxiliary hon secretary, sends this picture

in which ‘Lassie’, a locally-owned dog, is seen with her two

Young masters, Amos and Keith Garner. ‘Lassie’ won the
CUP for being ‘Britain’s Most Lovable Dog’

Alton, Haslemere‘, Petersﬁeld and District The branch have
to record their great regret on the death of The Rt Hon. Lord
Horder who has been their President since 1947. (An obltuary
notlce has already appeared.) .

A EYmkhana held at Haslemere was organized by Mrs
Muir and Miss Ann Muir and raised £33 10s. for branch
funds. The event was held in a ﬁeld kindly lent by Mrs Ash.

Mrs Wykeham Fiennes, East Worldham aux hon sec,
Organized a jumble sale and raised £15.

6 above reports were received from Mrs H. Tollemache,
branch hon sec.

Mrs Wigg, Four Marks aux hon sec, and Mrs Russell
organized a dog show at Kitcombe House, Farrmgdon (the

N EWS

home of Mrs Russell). The sum raised for branch funds was
£50 2s.

Balham and Tooting Wandsworth Common aux: Mrs
Granville Stott, aux hon sec, reports that the annual High-
ﬁeld School autumn sale was a great success and £33 was
raised for branch funds.

Birmingham and District The annual RSPCA service was
held at St Germain’s Church, Edgbaston. The Vicar, the
Rev John Davison preached on St Francis and his devotion
to poor people, lepers and animals. The lessons were read
by the chairman of the branch, Mr R. D. W. Evans
and the branch secretary, Mr Kenneth Tolhurst. A collection
of over £20 was made. (Report from Mr P. A. Turley,
Edgbaston aux co hon sec.)

Cheshire (Altrincham) Mr E. Parker, branch hon sec,
reports that the annual bring and buy sale raised £110 for
branch funds.

Cleveland and Tees Side Mrs Hart, branch hon sec, reports:
a jumble sale organized by Mrs Harrison of South Bank,

 

Mr F. Willmer, Chairman of the Birkenhead and Wirral
Branch, presenting the RSPCA Bronze Medal and Certificate
to Mr Frederick Ward, of the Tug-boat ‘Assistant’, for his
courageous action in rescuing a dog from a Birkenhead
dock. Behind Mr Ward are Mr Walker, Mate of the vessel,
who received a Certificate on behalf of the crew, and
Master Arthur Whitley Hancock, another award winner

 




 

‘ “NATURE-GIFTS” FOR XMAS GIFTS ‘.
7 Send 3d. for l6 page Catalogue. Toilet Soap: the coloured Q}
|

Animal pictures do NOT wash off: 3 tablets 4/5d. (3 boxes .: "
lz/9d.) Nestboxes l0/9d. Tit Bells 9/lld. 5-year Diary |0/6d.
‘ Animal Litany 2i’9d. Car Compass l5/6d. Pomander 7/9d.

, ‘1] 1 Dept. 8, GREENRIGG WORKS,

WOODFORD GREEN, ESSEX

 

 

 

 

 

 

ACKNO.WLEDGMENT

RSPCA gratefully acknowledges £1 donation in memory
of Francis John Hill, Bath.

 

 

  

FLAG DAY
G ODDS

Celluloid Buttons

LIST ON APPLICATION

THE UNIVERSAL BUTTON CO. LTD.

1-9 Birkheck Street, Bethnal Green, LONDON, E.2
Telephone: BIShopsgate 5750

 

 

l
Telegrams: ‘Unibutco Edo' l

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

TEMPLE COX CAPTIVE
BOLT SLAUGHTERING
GUNS
Specially recommended and used by the RSPCA

THREE MODELS—ALL SILENT IN
ACTION

‘UNlVERSAL’ for all animals
‘SMALLS’ for all small animals
{MARK 6’ for all animals. Designed for heavy

use in large Abattoirs and Freezing Works

 

TEMPLE COX DEVELOPMENT CO. LTD
HIGH STREET, BROMLEY, KENT

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

OMEE‘ORMS

HOBSON & SONS
(LONDON) LTD

All inquiries to

154-164 TOOLEY STREET
LONDON BRIDGE S.E.1

Telephone: HOP 2476 (4 lines)
Telegrams: HOBSON, BOROH, LONDON

Manufacturers of

UNIFORM CLOTHING
CAPS HELMETS LEATHER
BELTS POUCHES etc. etc

Gold and Silver Laces
Embroideries Of every
description for ALL
UNIFORMED SERVICES

PATTERNS OF CLOTH
and ESTIMATES
will be forwarded free of charge

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




ANIMALTH

EWORL)

THE OFFICIAL MAGAZINE OF THE RSPCA

 

Vol L N012

New Series

SOMETHING PLEASANT
FOR CHRISTMAS

Behind the RSPCA’s corps of over 250 Inspectors
there is the vast army of well—wishers, without
whose conﬁdence the Society’s work of suppreSv
sing cruelty to animals would be severely limited.
Every well‘awisher is another pair of eyes search—
ing out suspected cruelty to be investigated by
the RSPCA. ’ .

Month after month our readers have been hare
rowed by the details of many such investigations,
especially of those that have led to court prosecu«
tions. We make no apology for giving details of
these cases; they have provided ammunition for
RSFCA supporters in the fight against apathy.
They have provided our readers with proof that
such things do exist and must be put right.

If the value of public conﬁdence in the
RSFCA is widely understood in the sphere of
suppressing cruelty, it is less known—though no
less important—in other spheres of the RSPCA’S
work.

There is agrowing awareness on the part of the

FESTIVE TIME FOR ANIMALS

Christmas leavings from the table provide a treat
for the birds. The robins will enjoy the crumbs
put on the bird table for them every time the
Christmas cake is cut. Nuts and raisins make a
good feast for birds.

The birdelover will enjoy the antics of the tits
as they peck at the shell of a stilton hanging for
them. ’

The most bleak weather follows Christmas; if
holly decorations are saved and kept in fresh
water they will later. provide food for birds.
Hang them outside, and the berries will attract
birds in January, when they are unable to find
them on the trees.

Gifts
Once again readers can help to spare the possi'
bility of animal suffering by discouraging the
giving of pets to people to whom they will not
be welcome. A child or adult should not be given
an animal as a gift unlessit is wanted the whole

DECEMBER I 955

PRICE THREEPENCE

4s. 6d. per annum. Post Paid

public that the RSFCA is ready to accept recome
mendations for awards for bravery in the rescue
of animals. ‘

Almost every month, Animal World shows
that a large number of ‘rescue cases’ has been
considered by the Society. The readiness of p60’
ple generally to tell the RSPCA about such in;
stances proves that they are becoming more and
more aware that the Society’s interest in animals
extends beyond instituting proceedings against
persons cruel to them.

The award of medals and certificates bythe
RSPCA to persons who at personal risk have
saved the lives of animals fits into the Society’s
general aim, which is the promotion of kindness
to animals. It encourages such deeds and at the
same time shows them worthy of reward. It helps
to enhance the respect in which animals are held.

To draw attention to this important side of the
Society’s work in our Editorial this festive month
is to give ourselves the happy task of writing of
something pleasant for Christmas.

EDITOR

year round and not only at Christmas time.

Wild animals are not suitable as pets.

No animal should be given unless the home to
which he is going is suitable for him.

An RSPCA pamphlet on the proper care and
treatment of the animal might very well accoma
pany the gift. There is a temptation to offer too
much food to animals at Christmas time. This
means busy days for the veterinary surgeon and
suffering for the animals.

Fish bones or sharp chicken bones likely to
splinter may be caught in the animal’s throat.
Do not give them!

When an animal is ill a veterinary surgeon
should be consulted and readers will recommend
needy folk to take sick animals to the nearest
RSPCA clinic.

Birds need fresh drinking water as much in
winter time as in summer. Ice that forms should
be cleared away. Adding chemicals to keep the
water ice free is not advisable. It may do harm to

birds.

E1 (")6er thistmas to all our meabers

 




 

 

 

 

December 195 5

THEANIMALWORLD 143

 

Lady Berwick and Viscountess Hill. Lord Merthyr, Chairman
of the RSPCA Council, was the speaker. Wing Commander
Hillier was present. The RSPCA bronze medal was presented
to Miss Josephine Roberts for rescuing a horse from a burn-
ing stable. After the meeting tea was served, the hostess being
Mrs Williams. (Report from Mrs Meredith, branch hon
sec.)
Surrey——Kingston, Surbiton, District and South Middlesex
Mrs J. C. Sainsbury, branch sec, reports that Mr A. H. Bell
organized a jumble sale in the Methodist Hall, Surbiton. A
large number of people attended and £140 was raised for
branch funds.
Surrey——Sutton and District At a recent branch committee
meeting Mrs Allibert, council member, formally tendered her
resignation as branch hon see. it was accepted with the most
profound regret by the chairman, Canon Crawford Murray,
who spoke in moving terms of Mrs Allibert’s sterling work as
hon sec of the branch for the past 45 years. An inscribed
silver statuette of a dog on a plinth was presented to Mrs
Allibert who expressed sincere thanks to the committee.
Mr C. R. Davies, branch organizer, spoke of the work done
by Mrs Allibert for animal welfare and expressed apprecia-
tion to her on behalf of Headquarters and of all the branch
supporters.

Mrs Reader was appointed branch hon sec and will have
the help of Mrs Norman Smith as assist hon see.

It was unanimously voted that Mrs Allibert should remain
a member of the committee to help Mrs Reader and Mrs
Norman Smith.

Surrey—Woking and District Mrs Webb, Addlestone aux
hon sec, attended a meeting of Addlestone Evening Towns-
women’s Guild and spoke on the work of the branch. Chief
Inspector Pickett addressed the meeting on the work of the
RSPCA.
Sussex——Mid and Eastbourne Mr R. W. Walker, Chief
Constable and branch chairman, took the chair at the branch
annual meeting held at the Police Headquarters. Ald Cooper
spoke about animal treatment abroad and Inspector
Luetchford spoke on animal work in Ethiopia. Mr C. R.
Davies attended.
Torquay and South-East Devon An Animal Sunday Service
was held on Belmont Green, Ellacombe, and the Vicar of
Ellacombe Church conducted the service. Mrs Dodds,
branch hon sec, and Chief Inspector Butterworth attended.
Wiltshire—Salisbury and District The Rev J. G. Nicholls
conducted an Animal Sunday Service at the Church of St
Francis. The lesson was read by Sir Alfred Wort, branch
chairman. Among those present were Mrs Pothecary and
Chief Inspector Turner.
Worcestershire—West, and Malvern Mrs A. Harrison,
branch hon sec, organized a rummage sale in Malvem and
raised £60 Ss. 11d. for branch funds.
Yorkshire—Harrogate and District Mrs Chappell of Huby
organized a coffee morning and bring and buy stall and
raised £27 10s. for branch funds. A further £3 73. 9d. was
made from collecting boxes.

Senior Inspector Jackson addressed students at the Police
Training Centre at Pannal Ash on the work of the RSPCA.

 

COLLECTIONS

HOUSE—TO—HOUSE

(We give, wherever possible, the place at which the house—to—house
collection was made, and the name of the organizer or organ‘
izers.)

Burton—on—Trent, Mrs M. L. Bird, branch hon sec,
£205 155. 10d.; Overseal, Mrs Freeman, aux hon sec,
£8 75. 6d.; Newhall, Mrs Illsley, aux hon sec, £5 95. 4d.;
Alrewas, Mrs Hart, aux hon sec, £9; Rothwell, Mrs Harri—
son, aux hon sec, £2 55.; Wolsingham, Miss]. Downie, aux
hon sec, £13 05. 10d.; Wearhead, Mrs Fletcher, aux hon
36C, £7 35. 7d.; Walsingham and Wells, Mrs Webb, aux
hon sec, £32 195. 6d.; Burgess Hill, Mrs Ronald, aux hon
sec, £32 55. 9d.; Mirﬁeld, Miss A. L. Duxbury, aux hon
566, £48 75. 8d.; Rolleston, Mrs Archer, aux hon sec,
£28 195. 3d.; Brockham Green, Miss I. S. Sherlock, aux
hon 56C, £25 45.; Goodwick, Miss Holmes, aux hon sec,
£12; Newhaven, Miss C. Budd, aux hon sec, £36 15.; Nails—
worth, Miss Brown, aux hon sec, £11 85. 11d.; Skelton-in‘
Cleveland, Miss Oliver, aux hon sec, £4 75. 4d.; Norwich,
Miss Harbord, hon sec Animals Home, £72 85. 7d.;
Newcastle (Staffs), Miss E. Taylor, aux hon sec, £10 145. 6d.

FLAG DAY

(We give, wherever possible, the place at which the Flag Day
was held and the. name of the organizer or organizers.)

HYthe, Mrs Tooth, aux hon sec, £55 185. 3d.; Ilkley,
Mr A. B. Swaine, branch chairman, £142 55. 6d.;
Coventry City, Mrs Mocatta, branch hon sec, £307 15. 7d.;
Helston and Kerrier Rural District, Mrs E. Dransﬁeld,
aux hon sec, £72 195. 6d.; Rushden, Mrs Webber,
aux hon sec, £62 165. 4d.; Bishop Auckland, Miss G. C.
Baines, aux hon sec, £42 185.; Cannock, Miss Scarlett,
aux hon sec, and Mrs Bee, £27 175.; Portsmouth, Mr PL
Coombe, branch hon sec, £123 115. 1d. (share of 3011“:
collection); Reading Borough, Miss E. M. Wadland,
branch sec, £286 85. 2a.; Henley—on—Thames, Miss E.
M. Wadland, £80 65. 6d.; Saltash, Miss H. P. Creba,
aux hon sec, £37 185. 1d.; Stevenage, Mrs Dockerill, aux
hon 36C, £109 45. 4d.; St Albans, Mrs Goodwin, aux hon
treas and Miss Micklethwait, aux hon sec, £208 173. 1d.;
Instow, Miss M. Peters, aux hon sec, £11 25.’ 2d.; Notting—
ham and Notts Branch (Rural Districts), £1573 West
Bromwich, Mrs and Miss Haywood, £159 125. 6d.; Oundle,

Miss V. M. Carpenter, aux hon sec, £47 25. 2d.; Dover,
Mr W. S. Lee, branch chairman, £161 25. 9d.; Trowbridge,
Mrs E. Pitt, aux hon sec, £82 25. 8d.; Chatham, £88 125. 6d.;
Braunton, Mrs Phillips, aux hon sec, £23 133. 9d.; March,
Mrs Betts, aux hon sec, £29 145. 2d.; Colne, Miss K.
Dawson, aux hon sec, £29 135. 6d.; Rossvon—Wye, Mrs
Thomson, aux hon sec, £66 135. 10d.; Towcester, Miss P.
Turner, co aux hon sec, £38 145. 3d.; Bristol, Mr C.
Croxton—Smith, branch hon sec, £567 145. 3d.; Widnes,
Mrs Pullen, aux hon sec, £82; Kinver and Kingswinford,
Mr and Mrs J. F. Parker, branch co hon secs, £82 175. 6d.;
Rushden, Mrs Webber, aux hon sec, £62 165. 4d.; Hull,
Mr G. H. Jacobsen, branch sec, £308 105. 10d.; Withernsea,
Miss K. Gibson, aux hon sec, £23 75. 1d.; Highbridge, Mrs
Mason, aux hon sec, £9 65. 11d.; Thurcroft Colliery,
(Rotherham Branch), Mrs Smith, £7 75.; Swallownest, Mrs
Sampson, aux hon sec, £14 175. 3d.; Thorpe Salvin, Mrs
Dunn, £3 16s. 9d.; Harthill, Mrs Wall, aux hon sec,
£12 115. 7d.; Swinton, Yorks, Mrs Firth, £9 65. 8d.; Raw—
marsh and Parkgate, Mrs Young, £33 115. 11d.; New
Stubbin Colliery (Rotherham Branch), Mrs Lodge, branch
Vice‘chairman, and Mrs Young, £9 85. 3d.; Bramley, near
Rotherham, Mrs Nixon and Mrs Murﬁn, £8 25. 10d.;
Dartford, £113 25.; Richmond (Yorks), Mrs Bunting, aux
hon sec, £44 55. 11d.; Buckinghamshire, Mrs E. Stacey,
branch hon sec., £681 175. 2d.; Falmouth, Miss L. Armitage
and Mrs G. Powell, co aux hon secs, £61 85. 2d.; Bury
(Lancs), Mrs Hopkinson, branch hon sec, £171 125. 3d.;
Biddulph, Mrs Biddulph, aux hon sec, £47 115. 10d.; Blyth,

Mrs Featherston of Elving—
ton sends this picture of
Miss Wilcox. The collect-
ing box raised [05. 9d. in
two hours at an afternoon
tea party held at the
home of Mrs Featherston

 

 




 

 

 

,ll.1lll..d(

 

 

 

[H. R. Griggs

mg

istmas Greet

Robin sings a Chr

 

5..

C ,1!"
._

1

u

.,

.

<4.

,

.

.ull. ‘ .A
'I' } y“
.

”.1

 

 




December 1955

THEANIMALWORLD 135

 

 

     
    

ﬂ":, f

I

3
"s
\T
\ :CC

\
\

oEs nus REALLY
‘i’U “MUSE ”up

The lordly lion, born to
\\\\\ roam in freedom, knows ﬁre
as his natural enemy. He
is forced, by fear of the whip
or by hunger, to spend long
years of rigid training to jump
through a ﬂaming hoop. This practice, usually

The advertisement on the left has a special
appeal at this time of the year when perform-
ing animals are offered by circus proprietors
and others as popular Christmas entertain-
ment. The advertisement has recently been
widely issued in newspapers by the RSPCA
and is associated with an appeal for funds to
intensify the Society’s propaganda against this
form of entertainment, which is unfortunately
still legal.

Whilst it remains legal the RSPCA asks those
who share its views that animals should not be
exploited in this way to stay away from shows
in which performing animals feature.

carried out abroad by trainers outside the reach of British
law, prepares him and hundreds like him to amuse paying

audiences and to face a lifetime of cramped living.

 

Topical news from George Cross Island
CIRCUS ANIMALS

From Malta comes proof that the same problems
face animal welfare workers as those facing us
nearer home.

Below is given the text of a letter sent by Mrs
Marjorie De Wolffe to the editor of the Times of
Malta. At the time Mrs De Wolffe wrote she was
honorary secretary of the Malta SPCA which
has now become the Malta Branch of the
RSPCA with Mrs De Wolffe as honorary
secretary.

It will be seen that strongly as workers feel
about performing animals in Malta the Law gives
them no more power than has the RSPCA in
England and Wales for stopping such exhibi—
tions. Just as animal welfare workers in Britain
must seek to bring about improvements by prOv
paganda so must they in Malta. This letter is part
of that propaganda.

The Letter

From Mrs Marjorie De Wolffe to the Times of
Malta:—— .

A circus has recently been visiting the Island.
Many advertisements appeared and a car toured
round advertising one to come and see the perv
forming seals, the riding bears, etc., thrills, fun,
and enjoyment, perhaps—certainly not for the
animals.

Some friends and I went to see the animals at
this circus. Boiling sun beat down over their small
travelling cages—as many as four lions in a space
only ﬁt for twombears who feel the heat intensely
were boxed in their cage by wooden shutters, an.
effort on the owners’ part to keep the sun out.

Then we saw, up against a shed, a little bear
about the size of a collie dog—a heavy running:
noose chain round his neck, sitting on a box——

a man stood beside with an iron bar, a woman in
front with a stick in one hand and a piece of cake
in the other, fear was exhibited in every move
ment of that animal. He cried like a terrified
child, the man then hoisted him upon a barrel to
make him move it backward and forward and one
felt that this offering of cake, which the public is
so easily taken in by at the circus, is connected
in the animal’s brain by the iron bar and stick
which there was no hesitation in using. We left
this poor animal still crying, thinking what a poor
type of amusement this is, making these wild
animals perform such shows, at the cost of so
much suffering.

CIRCUS LION SHOWS RESENTMENT

A recent newspaper report showed that Caesar, a
lion, leapt off his pedestal in the ring at a Black’
heath circus and seriously mauled his trainer in
the stomach and thigh.

The trainer, Charles Elleneb, an Austrian, was
given an emergency operation and he was placed
on the danger list. After Caesar’s attack, Rex,
another lion, moved as if to attack.

Then Walter Milde, a German and assistant
lion tamer, went into the ring and put Elleneb
over his shoulder and carried him out. It was
Caesar’s second attack on Elleneb in a year.

HUMANE POULTRY STUNNER

The RSPCA acquired two or three years ago all
rights in The Hartshorn poultry stunner. A
pamphlet showing how to make it can be ob
tained cost free by anyone sending a stamped
addressed envelope to RSPCA Headquarters.
It can be easily manufactured by handymen and
it will provide a humane way of killing fowls,
geese, turkeys and ducks even if the operator has
no knowledge of the usual method.

 




 

ROYAL SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS
Founded 1824 Headquarters: 105 Jermyn Street, London, S.W.1

P A T R O N S
HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN
HER MAJESTY QUEEN ELIZABETH, THE QUEEN MOTHER
HER ROYAL HIGHNESS PRINCESS ALICE COUNTESS OF ATHLONE
HER ROYAL HIGHNESS PRINCESS ARTHUR OF CONNAUGHT

 

PRESIDENT .
PROFESSOR GILBERT MURRAY, OM, MA, Dtht, DCL, FBA

VICE-PRESIDENTS
SIR MALCOLM SARGENT, HON LLD, DMUS, FRCM, FRSA

THE EARL OF SHAFTESBURY, KP, PC COLONEL R. M. POWELL, DSO

THE COUNCIL

Chairman: THE RT HON LORD MERTHYR, DL, TD, JP
Vice-Chairman: *MRS WALLIS POWER, JP

 

*ALLIBERT, MRS FREEMAN, PETER, ESQ, MP *RATTRAY, R. F., ESQ, MA, PH.D
*ALSOP, ALDERMAN A. J., FRCA, FCIS, JP *HARVEY, MRS .l. w., MA RISELEY, MRS R. C.
ANDERSON, L. K., ESQ., MRCVS, DVM. HOGG, s. R., ESQ, DSO, MC *RlECK, H. H., ESQ
BERTIE OF THAME, THE RT HON THE VISCOUNTESS HOWELL, BASIL P., ESQ, MBE SHAFTESBURY, THE RT HON THE COUNTESS OF
ERANSOM, MISS L. 0., FRSA *HUNTER, MISS SIBLY, w. A., ESQ, MA, JP
BYWATER, H. E., ESQ., MRCVS LEE, MRS E. M. SNELL, THE REV PREIIENDARY L. J. IL, MBE, TD, JP
CONNICK REV. WILLIAM, BD LOCKWOOD, LT-COL J. C., JP, TD *TAIT, MRS, MA
*COOPER, ALDERMAN J. D., JP LONGMAN, MRS w. *WALFORD, MRS DESBOROUGH
DORCHESTER, LT-COL THE RT HON LORD, OBE, JP MOORE, LT—COL SIR THOMAS, CBE, MP *WHITE, HARRY, ESQ, PCA
*DOWDELL, MRS M. R. POULETT, THE RT HON THE EARL WILLERT, SIR ARTHUR, REE
ESTCOURT-OSWALD, MISS AGNES, MB (LOND), DPH POWELL, COL R. M., Dso *WILLIAMS, THE REV H. L.
(CANTAB), DOMS *PRITCHARD, MRS D. *WINCHESTER, F. J., ESQ, FClS, FSS
*EVANs, MRS DAVID, BA

 

 

* Denotes Branch Representative

 

OFFICE BEARERS APPOINTED BY THE COUNCIL

Hon Treasurer—LT-COL J- C- LOCKWOOD, J-P., TD Chief Secretary—ARTHUR w. MOSS, ESQ, MBF, ACIs
Deputy Hon Treasurer—HARRY WHITE, ESQ. FCA Assistant Secretary—D. A. L. CAMM, ESQ, BA
Hon Medical Ofﬁcer—A. N. CRAWFORD, ESQ, FRCSI Legal Secretary—J. HALL, ESQ
BankeI‘S—MESSRS COUTTS AND CO, STRAND, LONDON Chief Veterinary Ofﬁcer—MAJOR R. C. O. HANCOCK. ESC, MRCVS
Auditors—MESSRS VINEY, PRICE AND GOODYEAR, CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS
Telegrams—WHITEHALL 7177 Telephone—Whitehall 7177

 

IISD'I&TRUDTHE WORIIIOVER

FLAG DAYS AND HOUSE TO HOUSE
COLLECTIONS—I956

We are informed by the General Secretary of the Royal Air
Forces Association that the Association proposes to organize
a house to house collection under an Order of Exemption
granted by the Home Secretary from September ID to I5
inclusive. The National ‘Wings Day’ street collection will
take place on September IS. The Association hopes these
dates will not clash with collections of other organizations,
but should this, unfortunately, happen the Royal Air Forces
Association suggest organizers get in touch with the General
Secretary, RAFA, 83 Portland Place, London, WI, in order
that an attempt be made to arrange dates amicably.

We take this opportunity again to remind Branches that
now is the time to make application for Street Collections
(Flag Days) for I956, and Headquarters will be pleased to
advise Branches should difﬁculties arise.

House to House collections, under the Order of Exemption
issued to the RSPCA by the Home Ofﬁce, can be made at any
time, but it is recommended that when a concentrated col-
lection is being organized, the local Police Authority be
informed, in order to avoid the possibility of a clash with a
_ _ , . collection by another organization, which may be arranging
g ‘ . _ an effort at the same time. Headquarters will be pleased to

give Branches information as to procedure on request.
' SURE 7];me

CAPTIVE BOLT PISTOL
FOR ALL ANIMALS

ICCIIS Alli] SIIElVOKE lID ' BIRMINGHAM ' 8 ' ENGLAND

 

 

   

S456

 

 

 




 

 

 

December 1955

THE'ANIMAL WORLD 139

 

CAT RESCUED FROM SEA

A cat, who, frightened at the approach of work—
men aboard a minesweeper in Penarth Docks,
near Cardiff, dived through an open portahole
into the sea 20 ft. below, was seen in difﬁculties
by several people. Among them was a 19ayearrold
youth, Roger White, who exclaimed: ‘That cat’s
not going to drown!’ Thereupon, he stripped to
the waist, discarded his spectacles and dived into
the dock. .

Swimming 70 yards to the cat, he held her in
one hand and then swam one—handed back to the
jetty, holding the cat’s head above the water.

After attention, the cat fully recovered.

Roger has received the bronze medal of the
RSPCA for bravery in the rescue of animals.

Bronze Medals

A footballer volunteered to be lowered 150 ft.
to rescue a dog from a mineshaft, the mouth of
which was overgrown with bracken, grass and
weeds and which was crumbling through neglect.

The incident happened at Cockshoot Wood, near
Yorkley, Glos. (As a result of an approach by
Inspector Adams to the Forestry Commission,
the shaft is being re—fenced, so that in future
animals should run less risk of falling into it.)

The rescuer, Mr T. Truman, has received an
RSPCA bronze medal, and other recent winners
of this medal are:

Station Ofﬁcer Lee, who was twice lowered into
a 24 ft. deep well during operations that led to the
rescue of a heifer almost submerged in water (the
incident happened at Bella Vista Farm, Thurlston,
near Penistone); Police Constable Phizacklea,
who rescued a kitten from a quarry, Crown Lane,
Horwich, near Bolton; Mr H. Freear, who rescued
a cat and three kittens marooned on a chimney
stack, High Street, Scunthorpe; Mr Luther
Howells and Mr D. Hughes, who rescued a dog
from a crevice on a mountain, between Blaena
garw and Nantymoei, Glam, and Mr A. H.
Grifﬁn and Mr R. Hudson, who rescued two
ewes from a ledge at Whitbarrow Scar, Withers—
lack, Westmorland.

 

A FOREIGN LABOURER
By Sir W. Beach Thomas

(Reprinted from ‘The Observer’ with acknowledge
ments)

Those—and their number increases—whose
holiday resort is the Broads’side rather than the
seaside have now the opportunity of seeing a
more or less new animal, that may be not less
interesting to the curious observer than the rare
Bearded Tit, which, oddly enough, finds its
standard food in very much the same places.
Most of us nurse a strong feeling against the
introduction of alien creatures, which has been
too lightvheartedly permitted; and we have had
some unhappy experiences within the last few
years. The grey squirrel (though it might be as in
the United States a popular form of food) and
‘the little owl (that greedy devourer of beetles)
are the two most. notorious examples, but there
are several others.
The sorcalled balance of nature within Britain
as been very nearly ideal in most ways, although
we begin to have fears for its disturbance by
native agency. Our apprehensions may be justified.
This balance is one of our most valuable
possessions, inherent in the inmost nature of our
country; and because we are an island with an
equable clime it is defensible. Nevertheless
there may be such a thing as a welcome alien. One
(though it raised alarms about the same time as
the musk—rat menace) is now regarded with some
admiration in parts of the Eastern Counties. It
as several names, of which perhaps the best

known, since it is the name of its pelt, is the
nutria, valued like the muskerat for its fur. It is
multiplying locally, for the reason, perhaps, that
it finds a most congenial food, I am told, in the
reedrmace and other species that threaten—and
here and there more than threaten—to block
dykes in the neighbourhood of the Broads.

Dykes, and indeed rivers, need clean banks,
and the trimming process is slow and difﬁcult
enough even where labour is available and some '
one is at hand anxious and able to have the work
done. Troutvbreeding streams have been quite
ruined by accumulations of mud that an ob—
structed stream is too sluggish to clear. The
results of blocking by excessive growth of reed
may be, and indeed have been, much more
serious in districts served by dykes, and in some
of these the multiplying nutria have begun to
prove themselves an essential blessing.

One of the best naturalists I know is wholly in
their favour, and he has made some intimate
study of their feeding habits. Perhaps it may be—
come a question how far this notable increase is
to be permitted or encouraged, but the animal is
of a size and a habit to make it controllable if
necessary.

Among the unpopular aliens that have
ﬂourished overmuch when translated must be
reckoned even the sweet—briar, and, of course,
the blackberry, rabbit and fox. No, we are safe
enough with this visitor from South America.
It is, after all, a sort of lively beaver, more
likely to help water to ﬂow than to block it with a
dam.

 




 

 

 

December 1955

THEANIMALWORLD 137

 

There are no birds in Tanganyika being treated
with dye.

Kenya prohibits the export of all wild birds
unless a permit is obtained from the Ofﬁce of the
Game Warden. Very small numbers only are
exported and they go to approved institutions.

There is no evidence that any birds exported
from Kenya are dyed in any way, and appropriate
action would be taken against anyone carrying
out this practice.

Uganda

At present the export of live birds or animals
on a commercial basis is not allowed, except
those destined for recognized Zoos.

It is never intended to allow the export of live
birds or animals purely for commercial proﬁt,
and no permits will be given for this.

The export of animals and birds to Zoos is con»
trolled by the Game Warden’s Department, and
permits are given only to exporters who take
proper care of them.

These restrictions apply to all birds and animals
whether scheduled in the Game Ordinance or not.

PINK—FOOTED GEESE

A stretch of the river Humber between Faxﬂeet
Ness Beacon and Brough Haven, in the East
Riding, has recently become a bird sanctuary.
This is the ﬁrst new sanctuary to be created under
the Protection of Birds Act, 1954, and its main
purpose is to protect the roosting area of pink—

footed geese.

The pinkrfooted goose resembles the small
Bean Goose, but is distinguished from this and
other ‘grey geese’ by pale blueagrey upper—parts,
giving a strong contrast with very dark head and
neck, small pink and black bill and pink legs. It
measures 24 in. to 30 in., and in voice emits a
two— or three—syllable honking, resembling a
Bean Goose, but of higher pitch. It has a musical
‘ring—rink’ ‘winkvwinkvwink’ or ‘kingewink’. It
resorts to ﬁelds on hills, such as the Yorkshire
Wolds.

(From A Field Guide to the Birds of Britain and
Europe by Roger Peterson, Guy Montford and
P. A. D. Holborn, Collins, 1954.)

 

EXETER CLINIC
by J. P. Donaldson

   
   

.........................

 

Photo by courtesy: The Express and Echo, Exeter
Diagnosis at the RSPCA Clinic in Exeter

(Extracts from an article in Express and Echo,
Exeter; reprinted with acknowledgments.)
When eightryear—old Johnny’s cat choked with a
ﬁsh—bone in its throat, the RSPCA came to his aid,
and a few hours later his pet was Contentedly
ﬁnishing off a saucer of milk.

When 80—yearvold Joe’s dog limped home with
a gashed paw and a splinter of glass sticking out of
the wound, the pensioner’s only companion was

given expert and rapid ﬁrst—aid treatment by the
‘RSPCA. -

When Exeter police round up mangy strays, the
RSPCA steps in again _to take care of the out,
casts.

Day after day, sick, injured, and unwanted
animals are taken to the RSPCA animal clinic
adjoining Paul Street bus station where treat—
ment is given on the spot. The treatment is

‘ free for animals belonging to necessitous folk,

but most owners of the patients usually drop a
few coins into the clinic collectingrbox.
' Often it is those who can ill—afford a shilling or

'two, such as pensioners, who make the most

generous donations.

Goat was fed

Cats and dogs make up the majority of
animals taken to the clinic, although tortoises and
guinea pigs can often be seen in the ﬁrst’aid room,
and last week the clinic was enlivened by a
ﬁve—day—old billy goat.

Mr R. Frankham, in charge of the clinic,
gradually persuaded the goat to take food through
a baby’s feeding bottle and was then able to ﬁnd
a home for it. -

 

MOTORIST USED HORSE TROUGH

A ﬁne of 103. was recently imposed by the
Borough magistrates on a manufacturer’s agent
for using water supplied by Scarborough Cora
poration to a horse trough for purposes other
than the watering of cattle and horses.

The defendant, who pleaded guilty by letter,
apologized to the court for using the water in
the trough, near the Futurist Cinema on Fore;
shore Road, to wash his car.

 




 

134 THEANIMALWORLD

q.

December 1955

 

THE RSPCA AT WORK

OCTOBER 1955

RSPCA INSPECTORS

2,119 Complaints of cruelty investigated.
1 Oﬂender imprisoned.
83 Oj‘fenders ﬁned.

52 Persons guilty of minor acts of cruelty cautioned in
writing.

808 Registered cautions were administered by Inspectors.

CLASSIFICATION OF CONVICTIONS
HORSES—Working in an unﬁt state, beating, injuring

with hay fork, etc .. 10
CATTLE—Overstocking, conveying in an unﬁt state 2
SHEEP—Neglecting 2
PIGS—Neglecting . . . .. . . . 2
DOGS—Neglecting, kicking, shooting and wounding,

conﬁning in unventilated motor vehicle, etc. 15
CATS—Neglecting, beating, injuring with steel barbed

arrow, etc. . .. . . . 14
POWLS——Neglecting, injuring with knife, conveying in

improper manner, etc. . . 1'1
PIGEON—Conveying in improper manner 1
BUDGERIGARs—Starving 2
TORTOISE—Neglecting 1

OFFENCES UNDER THE PROTECTION OF BIRDS ACT, 1954:
Conﬁning birds in small cages 8

Being in possession of recently taken birds... 8
Using nets for the purpose of taking 2

VARIOUS OEEENCES:
Permitting in oﬁences 3
Causing in ojfences .. i 2
Aiding and abetting in an offence 1
TOTAL NUMBER OF CONVICTIONS 84

During OCTOBER 1955, Magistrates, at the request of the
RSPCA, disqualiﬁed SIX persons from owning a dog or holding
a dog licence. Disqualiﬁcations were as follows:

ONE for 12 months; ONE forZZ years; FOUR for5 years.

Total number of COMPLAINTS from January lst 24,269
Total number of CONVICTIONS from January lst 896
Total number of CAUTIONS from January lst 8,459

HEADQUARTERS CLINICS

No. of animals handled:
Cats 4,167 Dogs 4,053 Misc. 724

No. of animals given emergency ﬁrst aid: 2,234.

'l Oral 8,944

PUTNEY CONVALESCENT .WARD

No. of animals handled:

Cats 20 Dogs 93 Total 113

NIGHT STAFF
No. of calls received: 1,360
Miles covered by ambulance in respect of urgent calls: 1,992
No. of animals rescued: 6
No. of animals treated by Veterinary Surgeon: 251
No. of animals given emergency ﬁrst aid: 3
No. of complaints: 9
No. of animals destroyed:
Cats 94 Dogs 47 Misc. 40

NORTH WALES UNIT

First—aid cases:

Total 181

Cats 28 Dogs 47 Misc. 6 Total 81
N o. of animals handled by Unit:
Cats 122 Dogs 104 Misc. 14 Total. 240
No. of miles covered by Unit: 2,325
AWARDS
Cases considered 81
Margaret Wheatley Cross 1
Silver Medals 4
Bronze Medals... 11
Certiﬁcates 31
RECORDS FOR 1954
INSPECTION
COMPLAINTS ... ... ... 27,7 90
CONVICTIONS ... ... ... 872
CAUTIONS 9, 657

HEADQUARTERS CLINICS
Number of animals handled: 151,109

NIGHT STAFF
Number of calls: 18,849

NORTH WALES UNIT
Number of animals handled: 2,537

AWARDS
Silver Medals for Animal Life Saving. 12
Bronze Medals for Animal Life Saving. 65
Bars to the Bronze Medal . 6

Merit Certiﬁcates for Animal Life Saving 12
Margaret Wheatley Cross 1

 

 

 




 

 

136 ' - THEANIMALWORLD

December 1955

 

 

LAMENTATION OF THE MONKEYS

From THE ARYAN PATH, with acknowledgments:—
Shri C. Rajagopalachari, former Governor;
General of India, has never hesitated to champion
worthy causes merely because they happen to be
unpopular. He has voiced his strong protest
against the export of monkeys for the purpose
of vivisection, in Harijan (July 16, 1955, Ahmedav
bad), in the form of a poignant poem entitled
‘Vaanara Vilaap’ or ‘The Lamentation of the
Monkeys’.
Here are some extracts:

If you are tired of your cousins dumb,

And you think our number robs you of your

food,

Send us to lethal chambers

Or shoot us down among our jungle trees.

O give us sudden death, but do not make

Victims of us for tortures inconceivable,

More horrid than any disease

That man has earned by his various sins . . .

We cannot speak the tongues of men
But the gods do hear and understand. . . .

Foul not the ancient river of faith

That waters still your land

And makes you worthy of some attention

In the world of armed and greedy men.

Think you the tears of these dumb cousins of
yours _

Have no power for a curse or that misfortune

Cannot touch you now that science has prov
gressed? -

Or that you can help the world

With knowledge got through execrable
cruelty? . .

Will the Indian Government respond to the
appeal of a truly wise and great man who has
become a voice of the conscience of his country?

 

In this photograph, taken in RSPCA Tanganyika Division

Headquarters, Mrs Slater, Organizing Secretary, holding ~

‘judy’, a dachshund, is seen with Mrs Tweedie, Secretary-

Inspector of Dar-es-Salaam Branch, Mr john Ogutu,

Assistant Secretary of the Division (Mrs Slater’s right),
Inspector Basil Befo and Scout-Messenger Aloysis

 

ﬂ

RSPCA Dog Show at Gilbraltar
Inspector P. H. Barnett is in uniform on the left

HUMANE SLAUGHTER: DENMARK

Newspaper reports published in English DCWS'
papers suggested that the Danish Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals had invited
British housewives to refuse Danish bacon. The
Danish Society was reported to have asked house;
wives to take this action in protest against killing
of pigs without stunning, the Order demanding
pre—stunning having been rescinded.

 

Stunning Compulsory

RSPCA Headquarters wrote to the Danish
SPCA asking whether the RSPCA could be of
any help. From the letter received it appears that
the Danish Minister of Justice has decided that,
from the 1st April 1956, prevstunning of animals
intended for slaughter will once again be come
pulsory. The Administrator of the Danish
SPCA expresses the opinion in his letter that the
date on which prevstunning becomes compulsory

could not be brought nearer by any action under,
taken abroad.

EXPORT OF HORSES TO
THE CONTINENT

Returns received from the Ministry of Agriculv
ture for the quarter ended 30th June 1955 shOW
that a total of 61 horses were shipped, following
veterinary examination, during that period: 43
of that number were sent to France and thé
remamder to Belgium, Holland, Germany, Swel
den and Denmark.

In addition, 79. horses and 23 ponies were eX~
ported to Europe after being exempted from
veterinary examination: these animals were
thoroughbreds, show jumpers, etc

9

TROPICAL BIRDS

Following disclosures made recently in Animal
Eli/mid of the suffering in the traﬂic in tropical
1rds to Europe, reports have reached RSPCA

Headquarters from Tanganyika, Uganda and
Kenya.

 

 

 




138 THE ANIMAL WORLD December195‘5

 

 

Photos by courtesy of G. Vivian Knowles, Port Talbot.

COOL IN THE HEAT WAVE

Evidently seeking cool during the heat wave the pony
plunged into a 4-ft. deep backwater of Port Talbot docks.

 

Unfortunately, he was trapped in mud and
quicksands and RSPCA Inspector Cramp
anda team of five firemen worked more
than an hour to release him.

 
 
 
  
 
 

After a friendly pat the pony was led back
home none the worse for his adventureQ

 

 

FORTY—FIVE YEARS OBITUARY .
Mrs Allibert, council member, as reported elsea With sincere regret we report these deaths: Miss
Where, recently resigned as hon sec of the Surrey E. Dawson, hon sec Groton aux; Mrs Burgess,
—Sutton and District branch. Mrs Allibert has member of Oxford branch committee; Mrs
held this honorary appointment for forty—ﬁve Bulman, supporter; The Marquess of London—
years and the committee unanimously voted that derry, president of Durham and District branch;

she should remain a committee member. Mrs P. Heath, former hon sec of Biddulph aux.

 

 




 

140 THEANIMALWORLD

December 1955

 

 

MYXOMATOSIS

The Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food
recently told a Press conference that exactly two
years after conﬁrmation of the ﬁrst outbreak of
myxomatosis in Britain an attenuated strain of
the virus had appeared in the country. Half the
rabbits infected in about 50,000 acres of the
Dukeries, in Nottinghamshire, have survived
attacks. ‘

Following this announcement the RSPCA told
the Press that it would watch that the appearance
of the attenuated strain was not made an excuse
for rescinding the clause in the Pests Act, 1954,
which makes illegal the artiﬁcial spread of myx0a
matosis.

The clause forbidding the artiﬁcial spread of
myxomatosis was introduced into the Pests

Act, 1954, mainly as a result of agitation led by
the RSPCA.

*

BOLD CLAIMS

Bold claims have been made for the effects of
myxomatosis in increasing agricultural yields,
but Mr C. J. Smith, of Stock, Essex, writing to the
Editor of the Daily Telegraph, gives comparative
grain yields for 1955 and 1953 (the last year of
normal rabbit population) in cwts per acre:

| 1953 l 1955

 

Wheat 24'0 24'4

Barley 22-6 23-7

Oats 21-2 207
Mr Smith points out that, despite myxomav
tosis, the grain crops in 1954 gave a much lower
yield than in 1953. Although admitting a total
gain of about 104,000 tons, valued at £3,500,000
over 1953, he cannot accept the view that even
this very reduced amount is entirely due to free
dom from rabbit damage. If it is, he says, perhaps
someone will explain the decreased yield on oats

in 1955.

 

RSPCA ACHIEVEMENTS

   
 

   

Senior inspector Davenport looking mto the new calf pen
introduced at Waltham Abbey Market after long agitation
by him. Notice the hood for protection of the calves.

At Watford the custom of driving cattle through
the busy streets was a source of animal suffering,
and the RSPCA urged that they should be conv
veyed by motor transport. Success was an—
nounced in a letter addressed by the Town Clerk
of Watford to RSPCA Headquarters. ‘1 am
pleased’ (wrote the Town Clerk) ‘to inform you
that, due to the persuasiveness of your Watford
Inspector, Messrs. W. Davis & Sons Ltd, who
control the larger slaughter—house in Watford,
have agreed to convey by road transport all
animals destined to their slaughter—house from
.Watford Junction Railway Station. Messrs G.
Gibson & Son of High Street have likewise
agreed to this procedure. . . ’

At Evesham children are to be banned from
entering the market precincts.

At Newark—on—Trent covered pens for pigs and
calves have been installed.

 

PUPPY LOCKED IN CAR

A man who shut the doors and windows of
his parked car to prevent people disturbing a
puppy inside the vehicle appeared before
Truro City Magistrates, charged by the RSPCA
with causing unnecessary suffering to a puppy by
unreasonably conﬁning the animal in an un«
ventilated vehicle.

The Chairman said the bench felt that the
defendant had been careless in leaving the puppy
in the car. This summer cars had been getting
‘frightfully hot’. There would be a ﬁne of £2

and an advocate’s fee of £1 15.

‘Diﬂiculty in Breathing’

A woman who gave evidence said she returned
to a car park and heard the whimpering of a
puppy whom she found in a car next to hers. The
puppy was evidently having difficulty in breathing
and was trying to get on to the rear seat.

She fetched her husband who could not gain
access to the car. He brought RSPCA Inspector
Norris who brought a police constable. They
managed with a tyre lever and duster to force
open the back window of the car and opened the
rear door. The puppy was lying on the floor in a
very distressed condition. When released he at
ﬁrst found great difficulty in drinking water, but
later lapped it up gratefully. (B.4.)

 

 




 

 

 

142 TiHEANIMALWORLD

December 1955

 

 

This picture of
the Golden
Retriever puppy
comes from
Miss M. Daniel,
aux hon sec for
Verwood.

 

raised £19 145. 6d. for branch funds and a sale of work run
231: 1ﬂour young children of Linthorpe, Middlesbrough,
s.

Essex—North-West Branch Mr N. Playne, branch chair-
man, took the chair at the branch annual meeting held at the
Branch Animal Welfare Centre, Braintree. Reports from
Mrs M. Sharp, branch hon sec, and Mr N. B. Wright, branch
hon treas, were read. Major Chapman, branch organizer,
spoke on the work of the RSPCA.

Exeter, East and West Devon Miss P. M. Lane, Woodbury
aux hon sec and Woodbury Animal Defender group leader,
reports that the Animal Defenders’ annual meeting was held
in the school room. Films were shown and Inspector Pickett
answered questions.

Mrs F. E. Weaver, Okehampton aux hon sec, organized
the annual Okehampton jumble sale at the Market Hall, and
raised £51 2s. 9d.

Glamorgan—Mid and Port Talbot A jumble sale held in the
Ambulance Hall, Margam Terrace, Port Talbot, raised
£21 23. 6d. for branch funds.

Gloucester City and District and Forest of Dean Mrs M. V.
Nash, branch hon sec, reports that a bring and buy sale was
held in the gardens of the home of Dr and Mrs J. H. Neill
at Iéucclecote. The sum of £20 19s. 9d. was raised for branch
un s.

Miss Kathleen Westall, a member of the branch’s enter-
tainments committee, organized a musical concert for the
branch.

Gloucestershire—Mid. Mrs Edith M. Porri, branch hon sec,
reports that a bazaar raised £120 for branch funds. '

Great Yarmouth and District Mrs Scott, North Walsham
aux hon sec, reports that Mrs Highton of Witton opened
her rock gardens and on two Sundays Mrs Klyne and the

Bacton Sea Urchins Animal Defender Group collected £15 ‘

for branch funds. Mr and Mrs Price assisted.

Hull and East Riding Mr G. H. Jacobsen, branch sec, re-
ports that a collection at Hull Fair raised £85 10s. 1d. for
branch funds.

Isle of Wight Lady Lloyd, branch chairman, presented the
RSPCA bronze medal and framed certiﬁcate to Mr Howard
Cecil Rideout for rescuing a black cocker spaniel trapped on
the cliff face near Littlestairs. The presentation took place
at the County Hall, Newport.

An Animal Sunday Service was arranged by the Rev H. E.
Strudwick at the Church of St John the Baptist. Among the
large congregation was Senior Inspector Rose.

Mrs G. Jesty, branch hon sec, reports that a jumble sale,
organized by Mrs Battersea, Bembridge aux hon sec, raised
' £23 for branch funds. \

Kent—Isle of Thanet Mrs Turner, Margate aux hon sec,
forggnized a whist drive and raised £20 175. 6d. for branch
un 's.

Kent—North-West The Mayor of Gravesend, Miss A.
Johnson, accompanied by the Mayoress, Mrs P. E. Lines,
opened a garden party held on the Vicarage Lawn, Graves-
end. Mrs W. Honess, Branch hon see, was in the chair and
welcomed the visitors. The sum of nearly £50 was raised for
branch funds. _
Kettering, Thrapston and Wellingborough Mrs A. Dav1s,
Corby aux hon sec, reports that a small beetle drive ralsed
18s. for branch funds. ‘

A collection made at Stewarts and Lloyds raised
£38 173. 1d.

Lincolnshire—Mid, and Lincoln Miss C. May Harrison,
Lincoln aux hon sec, reports that an animal service was held
at St Mark’s Church, Lincoln. The service was conducted by
Canon Oswald Jones and the lessons were read by Judge
R. S. Shove, branch President.

Macclesﬁeld, South-East Cheshire and Buxton An Animal
Sunday Service was held at St James Church, Sutton, by the
Vicar, the Rev H. L. Williams, branch chairman. The
Mayor of Macclesﬁeld read the ﬁrst lesson.

Montgomery Mrs Maidie Andrew Hughes, branch hon
sec, organized a cake stall in Newtown with the help of Miss
A. Payne and Miss A. Humphreys, Newtown co aux hon
secs, and raised £14 103. for branch funds.
Northamptonshire and District Mrs Y. C. Rogers of Eydon
organized a garden party and raised £43 for branch funds.
Nottingham and Notts Mrs G. E. Hurst, Retford aux hon
sec, held a coffee morning at her home and raised £28 for
branch funds. Inspector Baldock talked to Retford Animal
Defenders after their ﬁlm show.

Oxford The Rev Canon R. R. Martin, branch chairman,
presided at the branch annual meeting and welcomed
Professor Gilbert Murray, President of the RSPCA, and
Mrs Desborough Walford, council member, to the meeting.
Mr S. L. Sale, branch vice—chairman, and Mr C. R. Davies
answered questions put by those present. Mr J. B. Allan,
branch hon treas, and Mrs F. N. Lund, branch hon see, were -
re-elected. Professor Gilbert Murray presented Inspector
Raymer with the RSPCA Certiﬁcate of Merit for rescuing
a cat which had been trapped under the tiles of a roof.

Mrs Lund reports that a bring and buy sale was held at
the G.F.S. room and £27 123. 6d. was raised for branch funds.
Peterborough and District Mrs Hunt-Pain, Whittlesey aux
hon sec, reports that an Animal Sunday Service was held
at St Mary’s Church and the Service was conducted by the
tRev1 Quiniar. A collection of £2 ls. 3d. was given for branch

un 3.

Preston and District Mrs H. Kay, branch hon sec, reports
that the branch annual meeting was well attended. Mr
Roland Ampleford, Parliamentary Organizer from Head-
quarters, addressed the meeting on the work of the RSPCA.

Mrs A. R. France, Chorley aux hon sec, reports that the
exhibitions at the Town Hall, Chorley, raised £22 115. 6d.
for branch funds. .

A coffee morning raised over £110 for branch funds.
Reading with Berks, Hants and Oxon Border An Animal
Sunday Service was held at St Laurence’s Church, Reading.
The service was conducted by the Vicar, the Rev A. C.
Wilson. A collection of £6 17s. was taken for branch funds.
Rochester Division Rochester bazaar was held at the Old
Corn Exchange and £100 was raised for branch funds. The
bazaar was opened by the Rev Canon W. H. Mackean,
Division president. Mrs V. Goldthorpe, div co hon sec, aux
hon sees and Inspector and Mrs Butson put in a lot of work
to make the event a success.

Rotherham and District Mrs Mitchell of Thurcrof't raised
£2 3s. 7d. for branch funds by the sale of socks.

Shefﬁeld Mrs G. Collier, branch hon sec, reports that a
‘Pets’ Corner’ raised £83 7s. 9d. at the Shefﬁeld Perfect
ﬁorpes and Traders Exhibition held at Edmund Road Drill

a .

Shropshire Lt-Col The Viscount Hill, branch president and
chairman, presided at the branch annual meeting held at the
Castle, Shrewsbury, and was supported by the Mayor and
Mayoress of Shrewsbury, Deputy Mayor of Shrewsbury,

.

 

 

 




 

144 THEANIMALWORLD

December 1955

 

 

Northumberland, Mr J. Alan Wells, aux hon sec.,
£77 145. 1061.; Uppingham, Mrs Saunders, aux hon sec,
£11 105. 761.; Cove, Mrs Dunning, aux hon sec, £33 45. 8d.;
N. Farnborough (Hants), Mrs Gritton, aux hon sec,
£42 85. 2d.; S. Farnborough (Hants), Mrs Carlton, aux hon
sec, £62 175. 10d. -

Birmingham and District Branch. The following Flag Day
collections have taken place in the Birmingham and Dis—

trict Branch: £ 5. 61.
Birmingham City . 2,409 14 11
Smethwick and Bearwood 121 15 0
Marston Green 29 13 4
Shirley 137 13 6
Solihull 302 17 6
Sutton Coldﬁeld 183 14 6
Water Orton 9 13 9
Coleshill 8 9 3
Dudley... 151 2 6
Langley and Oldbury 140 14 1
Halesowen . 37 10 6

£3,532 18 10

Durham, Hartlepools and District Branch. The following
collections made for the branch have been notiﬁed by

Miss N. McAuslan, branch hon sec:

9..

£

5. .
Horden and Peterlee 31 8 7
Easington Colliery 13 1 10

Wheatley Hill, Shotton and Thornley
Collieries 33 5 5
Wingate and Hutton Henry 10 11 8
Trimdon Colliery 6 13 0
Blackhall Colliery l3 5 10
Hartlepool 43 6 5
Park Show, West Hartlepool 4 15 4
Charity Rugby Football Match 18 14 11
£175 3 0

LONDON JOINT ANIMAL FLAG DAY
24th May 1955

The following is a list of the gross collections made by
branches and clinics which took part in this effort

Branch or Clinic £ 5. d.
Balham and Tooting 378 1 '7
Barnet and District 155 19 3
Bromley and District 387 11 6
Chiswick and District... 164 10 0
Croydon Borough 417 12 5
Crystal Palace District 242 10 7
Ealing and District 320 0 7
Enﬁeld and District 682 15 3
Essex—South—West 332 17 4
Essex—South—West (N. Chingford Clinic) 64 10 6
Finchley, GolderslGreen, Hendon and Dis—

trict 276 8 10
Forest Hill and Sydenham 115 7 7
Herts—West 90 3 4
Highgate, Muswell Hill and Crouch End 280 8 10
Kent-North—West 320 0 3
London—East 22 14 3
London—North—East 186 6 0
London—South—East 260 12 6
Middlesex—North—West 577 6 3
Richmond and District 153 11 8
Streatham, Brixton and Clapham 331 17 6
Surrey—Epsom and District 369 17 4
Surrey—Kingston, Surbiton District and S.

Middlesex 342 18 7
Surrey—Purley and District 196 0 10
Surrey—Sutton and District 296 1 10
West London 661 11 11

£ 5. d.
Wimbledon and District 349 0 9
Windsor, Eton, Slough, Staines and Uxbridge. 139 17 6
West Drayton Auxiliary 109 11 8
Headquarters 2,320 7 11
*Miscellaneous ... ... ... ... 195 18 6
Animal Aid and Welfare Club 287 19 4
Animal Rescue League 280 1 8
Animal War Memorial Dispensary 464 11 5
Balham Clinic... 91 15 2
Barnes Clinic 37 18 9
Bermondsey Clinic 88 14 5
Bow'Clinic 145 1 7
Bethnal Green Clinic 83 0 0
Bird Fund 184 1 5
Ealing and Hanwell Shelter 125 18 10
Edmonton Clinic 81 4 11
Lee Clinic 158 16 8
Mayhew Home 122 4 5
Sister Mabels Dispensary 97 18 11
Putney Clinic . 360 17 2
St John Partridge Memorial Clinic 243 2 1
South Harrow Clinic 155 6 1
Animal Help Society (now amalgamated with
RSPCA) 397 7 1

The RSPCA total collection was £14,148 125. 961. which
includes the amount raised by the Animal Help Society,
and establishes a new record for this annual effort.

* Collections made on behalf of provincial branches who
sent sellers especially for the occasion.

LOUGHBOROUGH AND NORTH
LEICESTERSHIRE BRANCH
Heather Day Results

73 5. d.

Loughborough ... ... ... ... 161 3 7
Auxiliaries 249 16 10
£411 0 5

STORE COLLECTIONS
Richmond branch, Messrs Wrights, £39 (Organizers: Mrs
Purkis, aux hon sec; Mrs Noeerill, branch hon sec, Mrs
Sharman, Mrs Williams and Mrs Perkins.)

LARGE BEGGING DOG BOX
COLLECTIONS

Coventry (National Provincial Bank Ltd), Mrs Mocatta,
branch hon sec, £21 185.; Llandudno (pier), from May 26
to September 29, £150. (Report from Miss Unwin, branch
hon sec.) Westward Ho! (Lewis’s Cafe), Miss Capper, hon
sec Bideford auxiliary, £30 165. 561.; Abersoch, Miss Sandys—
Wunsch, £27 95. 2d.; Torquay (Ideal Home Exhibition),
Mrs Howarth, £122 45. 1061.; Bury St Edmunds (Chain
Library, Cornhill), Miss Howard, £1 19s.; Boardman and
Olivers auction, Sudbury, 115.; Corn Exchange, Sudbury,
Miss I. Piggott, £3 75. 5d.

RSPCA FILM NEWS

The Society films were sent to the following places for
showing recently:

Leeds, Portland, Sevenoaks, Dagenham, Topsham,
Burton upon Trent, Battle, West Croydon, Etwall, Bristol,
Bedford West Bergholt, Ireleth, Acton, Cheltenham,
Worcester, Maidenhead, Newbury, Horden, Hillingdon,
Gosberton, Chard, West Wickham, Reeth, Ashtead,
Cowes, Washington, Peterborough, Carmarthen, North
Battersea, Loddington, Slough, Gateshead, London Docks,
Bexhill—on—Sea, Exeter, St Leonards—onvSea, Little Bromley,
Weston‘super—Mare, Cardiff, Woldingham, Edmonton,
Bewdley, Birmingham, Shrewsbury, Todmorden, Mine«
head, Thornley, Manston, Manningtree, Hoddesdon,
Aylesbury, Limehouse, Hull, Tottenham, Dalton—in—
Furness, Kenilworth.

 

 

 




t/usz‘ W/Iaz‘ your cat needs

SPRATT’S ifIg/ii cars

ere’s the safest and cleanest way of feeding

Fish to Pussy. Just open a tin of Spratt’s Fish FRESH ‘ ’/// / I /////I/ /l//////
for Cats and give her the dish she’ll love - pure, FISH / /,,,’ll’,,,},,,/,/,;;’

wholesome ﬁsh with nothing else added. Cooked

[II/II

//l{/

Ill/I/V lI/

. . //V 77
and ready to serve; as nourishing as it’s tasty. ZWIMWI/IQ ezw “WW 4 4’

Now, even In the hottest weather, you can be sure " D ad ea’. . .
.

that your Pet’s food is perfectly fresh. Spratt’s Fish

The better SPRATT’S

keeps indeﬁnitely and is just what Pussy needs for 114,, wayoffeedingyourCat:—

health and contentment. You’ll soon see the sow our
improvement in coat and condition when you In ""5
feed her this daily treat: all health-giving goodness

For the ﬁrst meal of the day, feed Spratt’s Fish for Cats.
For the second and main meal of the day, feed one part
Spratt’s Fish with two parts Spratt’s Cereal Cat Food (sold
in 9d. packets). In this way, you will completely supply
your cat’s needs and ensure a happy, healthy, lively Cat -
with a coat that speaks of tip-top condition.

SPRATT’S ﬁght for CATS

If any diﬂ‘iculty in obtaining, please write, giving the name of your nearest shop, to Sales Dept. A.W.

SPRATT’S PATENT LTD., 4I-47 BOW

 

 

 

 

 

 

R. SOP. COA.

ROAD, LONDON E.3

 

 

 

 

 

Society, the following form is respectfully suggested:—

form of bequest.)

FORM OF BEQUEST FOR NATIONAL WORK

To those benevolent individuals who may wish to become benefactors by Will to this

‘
l bequeath to the ROYAL SOCIETY FOR-THE PREVENTION or CRUELTY TO ANIMALS, founded

1824, for the general purposes of that Society, the sum of £ .......................................... , free
of death duty and the receipt of the Treasurer for the time being of the said Society shall
be sufﬁcient discharge for such legacy.’ (If it should be desired that the legacy should be ex—

pended on some particular phase of the Society’s work, a direction to this effect may be added to the

 

NOTE

 

 

 

By the Act of William IV and I Victoria, cap. 26, all Wills or Codicils must be in Writing signed by the

Testator, and attested by two witnesses in the presence of the Testator and of each other.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Printed by Shenval Press, Simson Shand Ltd, London, Hertford and Harlow, and
published by Arthur W. Moss for the RSPCA at 105 Jermyn Street, London, SW1

 




