4/9/79

 

ANIMALTHEWORLD

THE 'OFFICIAL MAGAZINE OF THE RSPCA

 

Vol LI No 12

New Series

DECEMBER 1956

PRICE THREEPENCE

5s. per annum. Post Paid

 

 

 

Many Council members were among the large
congregation who gathered in St James’s Church,
Piccadilly, on St Francis of Assisi’s Day, for a
special service arranged by the RSPCA.

The preacher was Alderman the Rev Pre’
bendary L. J. B. Snell, Council member, who, in
his sermon, spoke of the life and example of St
Francis and recalled the days when, in this very
area of Central London, the founders of the
RSPCA met in a coffee house and dedicated
themselves to the task of keeping alive the spirit
of St Francis.

With the words of the beautiful old hymn
‘All things bright and beautiful’ the service began.

Lord Merthyr, Chairman of the Council, read
the Lesson, and the Rector, the Rev J. S. Brewis
(by whose kind permission the service was held

in the church), said the prayer for the blessing of
the animals, as well as pronouncing the benedic’
tion.

A collection was taken, and as a result the

RSPCA benefited by the sum of £11.

Broadcast
On 5th October, Prebendary Snell broadcast

from Birmingham. He said:

The Animal Sunday service, held by many
clergy throughout the land, began at Holy
Trinity, Hereford. After returning from the war
in 1947, my Sunday School children singing the
well—known hymn,

‘All things bright and beautiful,
All creatures great and small,
All things wise and wonderful,

The Lord God made them all.’

suggested to me that they should bring their pets
to church to thank God for them just as they
brought fruit, ﬂowers and other gifts at harvest
time. I thought of Christ our Lord, born in a
stable, visited by shepherds who seldom move
without their ﬂocks and dogs.

Of His escape from death in childhood riding
in his mother’s arms, she seated on an ass.

Of Jesus choosing to be alone with the wild
beasts in his temptations—teaching that not a
sparrow falls to the ground without God.

Substituting bread and wine for animal sacriﬁce
in the New Covenant of His Church.

Making His last journey to Jerusalem on the
foal of an ass.

Of St Francis teaching the love of Jesus for all
living things. ‘The Lord God made them all.’

So on the ﬁrst Sunday in October the RSPCA
appeals to all animal lovers to pray for God’s
blessing on its work of preventing cruelty and
suﬂering to ‘our lesser brethren’ and to ask Him
to make us kind to them, for His sake who was

born in a stable—Jesus Christ our Saviour.

M‘Q/Q/ ﬂﬂﬂﬂﬁﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂ/VMM

El ("Berry Gbristmas to all our 1Reabers

ﬁ/‘ﬂA/Q/MMQ/Q/Mﬁ/MMMMMQﬂﬂ/v

«3/4/

a -

 

 




 

 

 

 

1.38 THEANIMALWORLD

December 1956

 

 

PRISONERS AND CAPTIVES

‘Animal World’- is privileged to publish this moving
poem, written by Lord Duns‘dny, the distinguished
writer, who is President of the RSPCA Kentf—West
Branch.

.. The poem is printed by permission of Lord
,Dunsany. ‘

Worn with vain dreams of liberty
And lost to comrades, woodsand sky,
Imprisoned, never to be free,
Snared linnets watch the years go by,
“ Their misery a tradesman’s bread,
Who ‘Them is only linnets’ said.

' If Some destroying angelsees
. .Man’s latest bomb increase in might,
. ‘Foreknowing fearful destinies,
Does not a tear obscure his sight?
. 'Or does that brilliant denizen
‘ . Of Heaven say ‘They’re only men’?

@eparture from ﬁethlehem

They were gone now: only an Infant’s tiny cry,

The hushing croon of a Mother, a Man’s ﬁrm
tones

Urging his nag . . . Then ever diminishingly

The sandalled footfalls, the crunch of hooves
upon stones:

All sound had drained away into silentness.

Only an empty road: they were there no more.

But the kine still looked from the open mistal door

Listening, gazing with great grave patient eyes,

Something had come to them and passed, the
faint stress

Of a meaning they might not probe, only dimly
prize;

~No thought: only a feeling from beyond their

reach
Enfolding, entering, moving with their own slow
blood,
To still their trouble, allaying the need of each,
To quieten every itching and fret away.
Back to the mangers then; sweet was the hay:
Slowly they bent as before to munch the cud,
Content not to remember as they chewed
That strange companionship with Holiness,
Their brief communion with Inﬁnitude. J. w. H.

CATTLE TO THE CONTINENT

This statement was released to the Press by
RSPCA Headquarters on October 18:

, Investigations that began in May this year by
.RSPCA_Inspectors, showed a large trafﬁc by air
and sea of cattle from theUnited Kingdom to the
Continent, and. measures taken by the Society
to combat likely suffering in the trafﬁc were re—
viewed by the Council of the RSPCA today.

In May, cattle imported from Eire were ship—
ped into Birkenhead and were transported to
Southend, where they were ﬂown to Calais. One
particular consignment over a period of nine
days accounted for the export of 560 head of
cattle. Chief Inspector H. E. Pope, of the
RSPCA, stationed in Southend, accompanied a
consignment and showed in his report that the
animals travelled well.

Early. in September, RSPCA Senior Inspector

“9E.- J. Temple, of Reading, reported that 300 to 400
cattle were going each week from Reading to
Hull, and RSPCA Senior Inspector E. Heath, of
Hull, reported that the animals were going
overseas.

,Wha/t disquieted the RSPCA at this time was
the fact that these animals appeared to have
3 been sold from one English market to another
over a period of a week, and many of them

were fat cows that had had three or four
calves. They were therefore the type of animal
likely to be fatigued by a long rail or sea
journey.

On to Italy
This was regarded as particularly shocking
by the RSPCA when it was discovered that
some of the animals on arrival on the Con—

tinent were making the journey overland by
rail to Italy.

In September, the Chief Secretary of the
RSPCA wrote to the Meat and Livestock Diviv
sion of the Ministry of Agriculture pointing out
the likely distress caused by the trafﬁc and recogv
nizing that the trade had sprung up because of the
low price of beef in this country. The letter urged
a veterinary examination of the cattle at the ports
of disembarkation. The animals are, of course,
already subjected to such an examination in this
country at the places from which they are
entrained.

The Ministry pointed out that the various
existing Orders were being observed and said
that ‘if experience should indicate the need for
any signiﬁcant change in these regulations the
matter will be very carefully considered.’




ROYAL SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS
Founded 1824 Headquarters: 105 Jermyn Street, London, S.W.1

PATRONS

HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN
HER MAJESTY QUEEN ELIZABETH, THE QUEEN MOTHER
HER ROYAL HIGHNESS PRINCESS ALICE COUNTESS OF ATHLONE
HER ROYAL HIGHNESS PRINCESS ARTHUR OF CONNAUGHT

PRESIDENT
PROFESSOR GILBERT MURRAY, OM, MA, DLITT, DCL, FBA

VICE-PRESIDENTS
SIR MALCOLM SARGENT, HON LLD, DMUS, FRCM, FRSA
THE EARL OF SHAFTESBURY, KP, PC

THE COUNCIL

Chairman: THE RT HON LORD MERTHYR, DL, TD, JP
Vice-Chairman: *MRS WALLIS POWER, JP

GARDNER, HON. JULIET
*HARVEY, MRS J. w., MA
HOBHOUSE, J. S. ESQ.

HOGG, s. R., ESQ, DSO, MC
HOWELL, BASIL P., ESQ, MBE
*HUNTER, MISS

LEE, MRS E. M.

LOCKWOOD, LT-COL J. C., JP, TD
LONGMAN, MRS W.
MACNAGHTEN, MAJOR A.

MOORE, LT-COL SIR THOMAS, BART, CBE, MP
POULETr, THE RT HON THE EARL
*PRITCHARD ,MRS D.

*Denotes Branch Representative

 

*ALLIBERT, MRS
*AISOP, ALDERMAN A. J., FRCA, FCIS, JP
ANDERSON, L. K., E5Q., MRCVS, DVM.
BERTIE OF THAME, THE RT HON THE VISCOUNTESS
BRANSOM, MISS L. G., FRSA
BYWATER, H. E., ESQ., MRCVS
CONNICK, REV. WILLIAM, BD, FR MET S, HON CF
*COOPER, ALDERMAN J. D., JP
DORCHESTER, LT-COL THE RT HON LORD, OBE, JP
*DOWDELL, MRS M. R.
ESTCOURT-OSWALD, MISS AGNES, MB (LOND), DPH
(CANTAB), DOMS
*EVANS, MRS DAVID, BA

*RATTRAY, R. F., ESQ, MA, PH.D

RISELEY, MRS R. C.
*RIECK, H. H., ESQ

SHAFTESBURY, THE RT HON THE COUNTESS OF
SIBLY, W. A., ESQ, MA, JP

SNELL, ALDERMAN THE REV PREBENDARY L. J. B.,

MBE, TD, HON.CF (HEREFORD)

*TAIT, MRS, MA

*WALFORD, MRS DESBOROUGH

*WHITE, HARRY, ESQ, FCA

WILLERT, SIR ARTHUR, KBE
*WINCHESTER, F. J., ESQ, FCIS, Fss

 

 

 

OFFICE BEARERS APPOINTED BY THE COUNCIL

Hon Treasurer—LT-COL J. C. LOCKWOOD, JP, TD

 

 

Deputy Hon Treasurer—HARRY WHITE, ESQ, FCA
Hon MedIcal Officer—A. N. CRAWFORD, ESQ, FRCSI
Bankers—MESSRS COUTTS AND CO, STRAND, LONDON

Chief Secretary—ARTHUR W. MOSS, ESQ, MBE, ACIs

Assistant Secretary—D. A. L. CAMM, ESQ, BA

Legal Secretary—J. HALL, ESQ

Chief Veterinary Ofﬁcer—~MAJOR R. c. G. HANCOCK, Bsc, MRCVS

Auditors—MESSRS VINEY, PRICE AND GOODYEAR, CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS

Telegrams—WHITEHALL 7177

.................

   
  

 
  
  

SIMPl \i \
SAFE. W x
. SURE ifmﬂ Xi

CAPTIVE BOLT PISTOL
FOR ALL ANIMALS

ACCLES AND SHELVOKE LTD ' BIRMINGHAM ' 6 ' ENGLAND
5456

  
   
 

Telephone—Whitehall 71 77

 

FLAG DAY
GOODS

PLASTIC BADGES

LIST ON APPLICATION

THE UNIVERSAL BUTTON CO. LTD.

1-9 Blrkbeck Street, Bethnal Green, LONDON, E.2
Telegram“ ‘Unibutco Edo’

Telephone: BIShopsgate 5750

 

 

Inexpensive XMAS GIFTS

for Animal lovers
Send 4d. for ‘Nature-Gift’ Catalogue: over 300
items. Seed Hopper I35’6d, Peanut Feeder ll/9d,
Tit Bell lO/9d, Hanger 2/-. Nestboxes from IO/9d.
Toilet Soap with bird pictures which do NOT wash
off, box 3 tablets 4/8d: Also Dog & Flower Series,
Animal Litany 2/9d. ‘Bird Sanctuary’ Catalogue 4d.
Dept. 8, GREENRIGG WORKS,

Tﬁtw

 

 

 

WOODFORD GREEN, ESSEX

 

PRAYER TOPICS

The attractive illustrated calendar for I957 published by the
National Sunday School Union and sold at 25. gives the
RSPCA as a prayer topic for Friday, Ianuary 25.

 

 

a,




 

136 ' THE ANIMAL WORLD

Reprinted from BIRD NOTES, the Journal of
the Royal Society for the Protection of Birds,
with acknowledgments.

BERRlES lFQR BlRDS
BY E. M. CLAYTQN

..:.:-.
n-..“
v
k .
............

'zzgaae‘ro'w .. ﬂ

l": "mu: " “Fitter-:-
l ."""““""3"’"' . ﬂ,
. is?” ' \f— / I

 

Last winter, during a very cold spell, the BBC
broadcast an appeal to listeners to put out food
for the birds. Thousands of people did throw out
crusts, and hang up nuts and fat, but this casual
supply is not really sufﬁcient, especially'for the
more timid birds which are driven away by the
bolder ones. Food must be supplied: regularly,
and although it is essential to put out water,
seeds, and fat, etc., it is almost more important to
ensure that there will be an adequate source of
food in your garden even if you have to be away
from home for some time. The only way to do
this is to grow berry bearing plants.

It is simple for owners of large gardens to set
aside a corner and grow elder, thorn, bramble
and briars, but for people with small gardens this

is almost impossible for a thorn hedge will not i

only take up a great deal of space, but will de—
prive other plants of light and nourishment. Small
‘ plants are essential for small gardens, so, in order
to give some idea of what might be suitable for
your particular garden, the ultimate height of the
trees and shrubs mentioned is given. Some of the
larger specimens are included as well. Latin names
are given to facilitate ordering from" a- seedsman’s
catalogue.

‘ HQLLY
Holly (Ilex aquifolium is the wild native plant)
is a tree which at once springs to mind when one
is thinking about berries, but it bears very erratic—
_ ally and cannot be relied on to provide fruit every
. year. Some of the cultivated varieties are more
reliable, Ilex pyramidalis bears berries freely but

grows into a big tree. Most hollies will grow up _

   

December 1956

to about 40 ft. unless severely clipped (thus ruin—
ing its chances of fruiting) but llex Golden King is
a small tree reaching up to 10 ft. and bearing a
good crop of berries. Ilex Mme Briot is a little
taller at 18 ft. but not too big for a small garden.
It has golden berries.

All hollies make slow growing but magniﬁcent
hedges, which are ideal as nesting sites as they are
almost cat— and small boy—proof.

A male plant is needed somewhere in the
vicinity if the hollies are to bear fruit.

For a really small garden the Guelder Rose
(Viburnum Compactum) is ideal. It does not exceed .
6 ft. and bears ﬂat heads of red berries. The
native guelder rose (Viburnum opulus) is a much
bigger plant, reaching 18 ft. The guelder rose often
sold as the Snowball bush is sterile. There is also

V. xanthocarpum which has yellow berries and
attains 15 ft.

CCTCNEASTJERS

Cotoneasters offer a wide choice as they range
in size from a few inches to 25 ft. They can be
trained up a wall, trail over the ground or be
allowed to grow freely as a tree. Almost any
soil is suitable and they can be planted in sunny _
or shady positions.

Thrushes, blackbirds, ﬁnches, and tits eat the
brilliant, long lasting berries.

C. Dammeri is the smallest. It never exceeds 2 or
3 inches, but will spread almost indeﬁnitely. It
has scarlet berries.

C. Prostrata is slightly taller at 6 inches but has
the same trailing habit and red berries.

Three wall climbers are C. Buxifolia, C. Fran;
chetti, C. Lactea. They grow to 5, 10 and 15 ft.
respectively and are evergreen.

Of the deciduous cotoneasters, C. Horizontalis
(4 ft.) and C. Rotundifolia have fan’like branches
and scarlet berries (7 ft.). C. Simonsii makes a
good hedge or will grow up to about 15 ft.

Do NOT get C. Conspicua decora whose large
red berries are not taken by birds.

No hedge which has to be clipped can be ex—
pected to fruit freely, but both hedges and
climbers make good nesting sites; spotted ﬂyv

catchers seem to like the sturdy, thick cover the
latter provide. '

, HCNEYSUCKLE

Honeysuckle (Lon-icera) in its cultivated or
wild form bears berries which are an attraction
to blackcaps and garden warblers. This is another
plant which is used for nesting by ﬂycatcher's.

If yOu have a thorn hedge, let some of the
plants grow freely to form one or two trees. You
will be rewarded by blossom in the spring and
deep crimson fruits in the autumn and 'Winter

which are eagerly taken by bullﬁnches, thrushes,
redwings and blackbirds. '

 

 

 




 

 

December 1956

 

134 THEANIMALWORLD

 

LOOKING FORWARD!

On the last day of 1956, coming to the end of
forty—ﬁve years’ service with the RSPCA, it might
be considered customary or even desirable to
recall what has been achieved. Old men are
prone to dwell upon the past but one never
becomes aged in the Society’s service. After all,
there are two HonaWorkers over a hundred years
of age and still as active as ever! Just like old
soldiers one simply fades away! That is as it should
be for the crusade against cruelty never ends,
though the need for intensive ﬁghting will some
day diminish.

Looking back may have its advantages but do
English people ever learn anything from history?
OurWelsh, Irish and Scottish friends may know
much of the past but English people never seem
to remember history and, if they did, would they
proﬁt by its example? Rather is the genius of our
countrymen shown in the building up of organiza~
tions in the light of the experience of the few. No
other constitution for us but an elastic framework
that can easily be stretched to meet ever chang~
ing circumstances. Such is indeed reﬂected in the
Society’s own Act of Incorporation, whose
schedule of rules may be altered by the members
as time may show to be necessary. Sometimes
Headquarters staff may think such changes are
not always an improvement but ‘their’s not to
reason why’!

Being built on such a foundation, looking
forward becomes a fascinating speculation.
Already the Society has branches in Asia, Africa
and America. Although Australasia so far has
none, its afﬁliations with the Society are close
and genuine. Let us never forget the material
help they gave the RSPCA in the darkest day of
the 1914 and 1939Wars. Can we not, therefore,
look forward to the formation of a chain of
branches, ﬁrst throughout the British Common—
wealth and then throughout the World. At the

moment, one of our senior inspectors is working

in Malta, GC.

Animal welfare legislation affords much
scope for looking forward. It is true that
one bill every year has become law during
the past seven years but we need legisla—
tion on: the use of cruel poisons, animal
boarding establishments, ritual slaughter, a
close season for deer, various forms of
hunting and coursing, performing animals,
the abandonment of animals, ending slaugh-
ter on unlicensed premises, various matters
connected with transport, marketing and
the conﬁning of animals, ending painful

 

experiments, power to convict for acts or
omissions likely to cause suffering, better
protection for wild animals not in a state of
captivity, and amendments to the Cock!
ﬁghting and Pet Animals Acts. As for animal
protection legislation overseas, much rev
mains to be done. Some countries have no
such laws of any kind.

Then, too, to come to matters more domestic,
it will not be a matter of my successor attending
Group Conferences in the North of England or
theWest Country but of making preparations for a
ﬂight to Africa or the Caribbean to meet branch
workers and to hammer out the solutions to
various problems. Surely that will mean the re;
building of the Society’s Headquarters with an
extensive ﬂat roof so that helicopters of branch
workers from overseas may land where London
pigeons do now! What complaints will then be
made to the authorities? Disgruntled folk have
already complained to the Police about birds
taking refuge on the present ﬂat roofs of Jermyn
Street. The reply given by Headquarters was that
if the birds could not land on an RSPCA roof
where better could they seek rest, food and shelter
and how wise of them to do so!

Looking forward, as will be seen from the
foregoing, becomes a most interesting speculation.
Thus in taking leave of you all, one envies those
who will be in the thick of the fray and who will
see the world beComing a better place for animals
and, because of that, a better place for humans.

With every hope for success in your efforts in the
future and wishing you Godspeed, ‘

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

December 1956

Have you space for the lovely Mountain Ash
with its heads of white ﬂowers in the early sum—
mer and bunches of brilliant fruit in the autumn?
Sorbus Aucuparia is the native species. It is not a
tall tree (15 to 25 ft.) but is rather spreading.
One of the smaller cultivated species is S. Vilma—
rinifi. This has pink berries and does not exceed
12 t. -

One of the most beautiful of our native fruits is
the Spindle (Buonymous europoeus). This has
curious pink and orange fruits. The shrub is
bushy but seldom grows taller than 10 ft. This
plant is poisonous in every part.

Yew (Taxus baccata) is another poisonous
plant, but the ﬂeshy red seeds are a great attrac—
tion to birds. Here only the seed' is poisonous.
Yews make good hedges and nesting sites. As a
tree it will grow to 30 ft., and, as a matter of
interest, will live up to 2,000 years.

Pernettyas are pretty little shrubs (3 to 4 ft.).
The colour of the berries vary in the different
plants. All need a lime—free and preferably peaty
soil and a male plant (P. Mascula) is essential if
fruit is to be borne. P. Mucronata has pinkish
berries, P. Mucronata alba has white berries, P.
Bell’s seedling has crimson berries, P. Donard
Pink has pink berries. The male plant has purple
berries.

Daphnes offer attractive ﬂowers in winter and
fruit freely. Daphne mezereum hasred berries. D.
Mezereum alba has white berries.

BERBERTS

It is impossible in a short article to mention all
the berry bearing plants, but the berberis cannot
be omitted. As common barbary, it is loved by
most birds and they also seem to relish the
cultivated varieties.

Mahonia aquifolium is a beautiful holly—leafed
plant which provides excellent cover and purple
berries. Its height is about 4 ft. It is sometimes
listed as B. Bealei in catalogues.

B. Darwinii is the commonest cultivated form.
It grows to about 10 ft. and also has purple fruit.
It can be planted as a hedge. Both these are
evergreen.

B. Wilsonce is a. spreading semiaevergreen. It
does not usually exceed 4 ft. in height but its
ﬁnal total width is about 8 ft. ’

.B. Wilsonce gracilis is a taller (6 ft.) shrub. It is
deciduous and will make a hedge.

B. aggregata Buccaneer has long lasting berries
and grows up to 9 ft. '

B. Rubrostilla is the biggest of these four,
reaching 12 ft. '

All these have coral red berries and are de’
ciduous. Berberis are easy, trouble saving plants.
Once they are established they give good thick

THE ANIMAL WORLD

137

cover and keep the earth beneath them free 0f
weeds.

SUNFLOWER

Finally, a plantwhich is not berry bearing at all
but has a great attraction for tits, nuthatches,
ﬁnches, and, if you are lucky, goldcrests—the
sunﬂower. Don’t just buy a packet of seeds and
sow them haphazardly. Try to get named varieties
from a good seedsman. It is possible, with just the
three undermentioned plants, to have them blos—
soming from July to November, with the result
that their seeds will ripen over a correspondingly
long period.

Helianthus Loddon Gold is a large double sun-
ﬂower, blossoming in July and August.

H. multiﬂorus Capenoch Star is a single variety
ﬂowering from August to October.

- H. Sparsifolius Monarch ﬂowers from Septem—
ber to November.

With only some of the plants mentioned in
your garden you should have an excellent source
of food for many different kinds of birds, and
you will also have a garden full of colour through—
out the winter. -

There are many more fruitvbearing trees and
shrubs which have not been mentioned, owing to
lack of space, in this article, but a search through
the catalogues Will reveal cherries (Prunus),
Crab Apples (Malus), Japonica (Chcenomeles),
Thorns (Cratcegus and Pyracantha), Buckthorn
(Hippohce), Strawberry Tree (Arbutus unedo),
Japanese Laurel (Aucuba), Privet (Ligustram ovaliv
folium). Dozens of climbing roses, Elder (Sam—
bucus), foetid iris (Feetidissima), to name only a
few more of the plants which can be a delight to
you and lifesavers to your birds.

 

NOTE—The text of this article is issued in pamphlet form by the
Royal Society for the Protection of birds.

 

 

 

’I‘.

Encourage your friends to take ANIMAL WORLD
regularly. ‘ >

‘7

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

December 1956

THEANIMALWORLD 135

 

A TRIBUTE

Few men have served a Cause with such singlea
hearted devotion as has been shown by Arthur
W. Moss in his forty—ﬁve years’ service with the
RSPCA—a service only broken by ﬁve years
with the Forces in the ﬁrst Great War.

As an eager youth, he threw himself whole
heartedly into the campaign to end the shameful
traffic in decrepit horses between this country
and the Continent; a battle which was not won
until some twenty years later, when an Act of
Parliament made it illegal to ship abroad a British
horse under a certain monetary value. In 1949,
however, there were signs of a revival of the
trafﬁc and the Chief Secretary himself travelled
from Goole to Antwerp with a consignment of
horses destined for slaughter. Largely as a result
of his journey, the export of British horses to

foreign slaughterahouses was brought to a ﬁnal

standstill. For this work alone, the name of
Arthur Moss will have a prominent place in the
records of the animal protection cause.

' His burning zeal ﬂamed like a torch wherever
suffering, helpless creatures laid claim on his com»
passion, yet the reforms he envisaged were sternly

‘ practical and his genius for organization has stood

the Society in good stead. When he became Chief

Secretary in 1946., his ﬁrst act was'to institutean
‘ever open door’ at the Society’s Headquarters by
setting up a Night Service. During thefolloWing
ten years, he was ceaselessly occupied with every
facet of animal protection work and his wide
sympathy reached out to the victims of cruelty in
all its forms, both in this country and overseas.
Indeed, the Overseas Fund was his own creation
and he has always been keenly interested in the
work of sister SPCAs abroad.

Under his leadership, the Society’s affairs pros—
pered and new legislation for the beneﬁt of ani’
mals came into being. During his period of ofﬁce
seven such Acts have been passed, notable among
them being the Pet Animals Act, 1951,. and the
Cockﬁghting Act, to which public attention has
been drawn by recent events. It was also due to
the vision of ' the Chief Secretary, that .the
RSPCA Animals’ Hostel was opened at London
Airport in 1952. . " --

As he looks back over almost half a century of

dedicated service in the cause of chivalry and

pity, Mr Moss has good reason for thanksgiving
and many victories to recall. The Society, too,
appreciates with gratitude that one who has
proved himself both visionary and man of action
gave forty’ﬁve years of his life to its service.

E. F. K.

 

GREYFRIARS BQBBY

 

,Photo by courtesy of Mr john Baker, and The Lady.]

Dr R. F. Rattray, Council Member, writesi'

In The Lady fOr August 2, 1956,“appeared an
admirable article on ‘Greyfriars Bobby’, the
famous dog commemorated by a statue in" Edin—
burgh. This stimulated Sir Arthur Bryant, the
well—known historian, to write another admirable
article in The Illustrated London News, published
on August 25. Both articles were based, directly
or indirectly, on The True Story of Greyfriars
Bobby by Henry T. Hutton (published by Oliver
and Boyd, Edinburgh, 1953, price ls. 6d.). It is a
wonderful story of the ﬁdelity of a dog who kept
watch over his master’s grave from 1858 till 1872:
and it inspired Sir Arthur Bryant to‘ writethe
following: " ~ ' , ‘

‘Dogs, in their characters, diﬁe‘r fromone another
as much as human beings, and they can be ignOble
as well as noble. The point I want to make is that
the capacity for nobility can be. as present in ,a' dog
as in a man or woman, and that to ignore this
capacity and behave as though it were non—existent
is as great a blindness or sin against the light as it
is to ignore it in man or woman. In other words, a
dog is a creature with a capacity for partaking of
those inexplicable and mysterious elements in life
that cannot be explained merely by physical phenOv
mena and which we sometimes speak of as divine.’

 




 

 

 

 

,. ‘.:

 

 

.

x y! l\ I"1\. ‘ la;(lc. \. 1 HI,‘ .1». 1‘1 fruvant 3.1m. (nhwu
14.1.

v I

v

<

w

ll! L‘HILI LI: } t I n! is In. 1 VP: F III } in I. {Hu‘l’r I Ar‘flvnw y

f\\.l.Hr.l|\ll"A w ‘ J l

 

 

 

G
m
N
R
O
M
s
m
T
.b
R
H
C

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

December 1956

THEANIMALWORLD 139

 

In the meantime, the RSPCA sent Senior In,
spector Heath on a boat carrying 225 fat cattle, all
steers, from Hull to Rotterdam. The ship left
Hull on the morning of Sunday, October 7.
As a result of delays, these cattle were on the ship
a total of 50 hours; they travelled reasonably
well, and fodder was provided.

Cattle ‘Hollow’

The cattle on disembarkation, the Inspector
reported, looked hollow and were tired when
they came off the ship. Very few had taken much
hay, and they had drunk little water. As they were
steers from pasture ﬁelds, they did not take very
well to the watering receptacles on the ship.

Thirty of these cattle were loaded in large
railway vans and the Inspector. discovered
that they were ‘A sample lot for Italy’.

The Inspector protested that there were no
watering facilities on the quayside and he said
to the authorities that the cattle should at least
be rested for twelve hours and be fed and

watered in that time. He saw hay and water

provided in the railway vans.

The rest of the cattle were slaughtered the same
day as they arrived in Holland.

The RSPCA found that the cattle were destined
for Chiesa in Italy. The RSPCA has cabled to
Brigadier B. U. S. Cripps, a representative of the
Anglo—Italian Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, asking him to report on the
condition of animals arriving in Chiesa. Brigadier
Cripps has answered from Carrara (Italy) to say
he will do so. The Anglo—Italian Society is a
British organization with ofﬁces in London.

Senior Inspector Heath’s report continued that

~ he returned to England on the SS. Harme

Clausen, from which he disembarked at Richa
borough, Kent, on Tuesday afternoon, October
9. This ship at once loaded with more cattle
and left—he understood—for Rotterdam.

Cattle boats waiting

There were about 800 cattle at Richborough at
that time, and at the time he landed there were
another two cattle boats waiting to enter the port.

Conditions for the cattle at Richborough are
under close investigation by RSPCA Inspectors.

The cattle reach the port from the railway by
being driven a distance of three miles, going on
narrow roadsthrough the middle of the village.
This involves the usual likelihood of beating and
the usual confusion when large. numbers of cattle
are handled in these conditions.

‘Old Horse Trafﬁc’
The grazing grounds where the animals assem’
1e were considered ‘adequate’ for summer, but
not for winter. The ground was forecast as likely

to be a quagmire, and this is happening, though
additional food and water is being supplied.

Sheds on the ground are in need of repair if
the animals are to have access to shelter in the
winter, and RSPCA Inspectors have urged that
these repairs should be put in hand.

The RSPCA urges that public attention should
be drawn urgently to this trafﬁc, which unless it is
properly regulated, will develop all the odious fea’
tures of the ‘Old Horse Trafﬁc’ of days gone by.

Action is urgent says the RSPCA. Informa—
tion obtained by the Society suggests that
between now and February something like
10,000 head of cattle will be exported.

The RSPCA believes that the trade if neces-
sary should be in dead meat—not in living,
sentient animals!

*

A question addressed to the Minister of
Agriculture, Fisheries and Food on this traffic
received this answer in the House of Commons:

MR AMORY: The transit of cattle to the
Continent is governed by regulations designed
to prevent unnecessary suffering, and I do not
think that I would be justiﬁed in seeking the
additional powers suggested by my hon and
gallant friend. (LtvCol BromleyaDavenport).

 

DUFFLE GREY’S HIGHWAY CODE
by M. BELLAIRS GASKOIN

From a charming account of Duffle Grey, ‘just a
splendid upstanding, well—bred donkey’, we give
this interesting passage.

He had a Highway Code of his own invention,
which he observed with meticulous care, and we
studied it carefully for our own sakes, since in his
eyes it was as it were the law of the Medes and
Persians. For one thing, any other donkey coming
from the opposite direction must needs be courte—
ously saluted.

As by mutual consent, they would cross the
road diagonally till they met, and could exchange
their greeting or password, after which they would
trot away contentedly, but nothing could induce
them to pass each other without this formal cere—
monial.

Then no animal coming up behind him was
allowed to overtake him. At the ﬁrst sound of
hooves he was on the alert. If a horse gained on
him, he began to canter; if it drew abreast he took
to a gallop, and kept it up as long as the com«
petition lasted. Once a mounted soldier was overv
hauling our little carriage when Dufﬂe threw out
his usual challenge, and the horse accepted it, and
they galloped together into the Village ahead of
us, which was luckily our destination. Nothing
else could stop our steeds, so we laughed, and the
soldier laughed, and it must have been a truly
funny sight.

 




 

142 THEANIMALWORLD

December 1956

 

 

SCHOOL PETS

Animals of various sorts are often kept in
schools. At holiday time most schools make good
arrangements for the welfare of these animals.
However, if arrangements are not properly made
there is a danger that the animals will suffer
neglect. I

The RSPCA therefore appeals to all who have
charge of animals at schools to make sure that
during the Christmas holidays the animals are
regularly fed and watered and where necessary
are given adequate exercise.

BRANCH NEWS

(Where a function is organized for the raising of funds, we give,
wherever possible, the place where held, the type of function, and
the name of the organizer or organizers, followed by the sum
raised. The letters AM indicate annual meeting; they are fol—
lowed by the word branch, or the name of the auxiliary, and an
indication, where possible, of the person presiding and of ofﬁcials
presenting reports; other information is given as necessary.)

 

   
   

[Photo courtesy Lancashire Evening Post

Opening of new clinic—Preston and District Branch.
(Left to right) Mrs Waller, joint Clinic hon secretary,
Mrs Kay, Branch hon secretary, the Mayor and Mayoress,
and Miss Wright, joint Clinic hon secretary.

Balham and Tooting, Wandsworth Bring and buy, £26.
Bolton AM (branch), Dr James Leather (branch chairman),
Mr F. W. Coope (branch hon sec), and Mr H. B. Todd
(branch hon treas). ,

Cheshire (Altrincham) Brooklands gymkhana, proﬁt of
£30 163. made up to £50 by gift from the Pony Club.
Cumberland—West Sale of Work, Mrs E. Fawcett, com-
mittee member, £50.

Exeter, East and West Devon Okehampton, jumble sale,
Mrs F. E. Weaver (Okehampton aux hon sec), £64 12s. 6d.

Egediton Michaelmas Fair, Mrs Yelland and Mrs Jasper,
7.

Gloucestershire—Mid Stroud, bazaar, Mrs Porri (branch
hon sec), £159 7s. 6d.

Goole Division Goole, jumble sale, Mrs Galloway, Mrs
Gardener, Miss Atkinson and Mrs Overington, £5 43. 4d.
Hampshire—Southampton and District AM (branch),
Mayor of Southampton (Alderman Mrs K. E. Cawte) and
Mrs Squier (branch hon sec). Among those present
were: Mrs Wallis-Power, Vice-chairman of the Council;
Wing Commander Hillier and Mr A. Joiner.
Hertfordshire—East Ware, effort, Mr C. Mumford, £14.
Little Hadham, sale, Mrs Hatton (aux hon sec), £40.

*
Hertfordshire—West St Albans, exemption dog show, Mrs

Pat Dellar and Mrs M. F. Micklethwait (hon sec, St Albans
aux), £20.

Isle of Wight Mrs H. M. Haigh, Mr Maurice Toms, Ryde
aux hon sec, and Mrs, Hawkesworth, West Wight North aux
hon sec, attended the Animal Sunday service held at North-
wood Parish Church. Collection amounted to £12 103.
Kent—Isle of Thanet Car treasure hunt, Mrs Willett, £25.
Kent—Medway Towns Rochester, bazaar, £100.
Kent—Mid Maidstone and District Cheeseman’s restaurant,
whist drive, Mrs E. Williams (committee member), £24.
Macclesﬁeld, South-East Cheshire and Buxton Miss A.
Margaret Wain, branch hon sec, and committee members,
attended an Animal Sunday service at Bosley Church.

*

Macclesﬁeld, coffee party, members of branch com-
mittee, £52.
Manchester and Salford AM (Northenden and Wythen-
shawe aux), Mr F. B. Dindale. Ofﬁcials present were Mr J.
Green, aux hon treas, and Mrs M. Johnson, aux hon sec.
Monmouthshire Monmouth, bazaar, Miss C. Probyn (aux
hon sec), £69.
Norfolk—Mid and Norwich Cringleford, bring and buy sale,
Miss E. Cole (aux hon sec), £50.
Nottingham and Notts Jumble sale, Mrs B. Vacey (Newark
and Southwell aux hon sec), helped by Mr Goodwin, £11 5s.
Oxford Oxford, bring and buy sale, Mrs F. N. Lund
(branch hon sec), Miss Grifﬁn and committee, £30 9s. 3d.

Witney, jumble sale, Miss Barbara M. Barton (aux hon
sec), £51.
*

AM (branch), General Sir Montagu Stopford (branch
president), Mr J. B. Allan (branch hon treas). Among those
present were the Rev Canon R. R. Martin (branch chair-
man), Mrs F. N. Lund and Mr J. Hall.

Preston and District Coffee morning, Mrs Hilda Kay
(branch hon sec), £125. -

Rugby An Animal Sunday service was held at St Botolph’s
Church, Newbold-on-Avon.

Shefﬁeld Publicity stand at Shefﬁeld Homes and Trades
Exhibition (space provided free by Sheﬁfeld Telegraph and
Star and Shefﬁeld Commercial Services), £107.

Shropshire Mrs M. A. Dunning (Horsehay aux hon sec)
attended an Animal Sunday service at Lawley Bank Method-
ist Chapel, andchildren of Lawley County School were
present.

Ludlow, bring and buy sale, £32. C. Pugh (aux hon treas),
*

Wellington, rummage sale, £23.

Regina, .a black
labrador, was
a good col-
lector at the
Dartford flag
day, writes
Mrs Bradshaw,
the aux hon
sec, who sends
this picture.
Regina col-
lected HS,

and is owned
by Mrs U. M.
Phillips

 

 

 




 

December 1956

THEANIMALWORLD 143

 

Hadley, rummage sale, Hadley members of Wellington
auxiliary, £12.
*

AM (branch); speaker, Mrs David Evans (Council
member).
Streatham, Brixton and Clapham Public meeting, St Anne’s
Hall, Clapham; Mayor of Wandsworth, Mrs Olive Haines,
presided; those present included: Canon Leonard Llewellyn
(Branch Chairman), Mrs M. R. Dowdell (Council Member),
Committee Members, including Mr G. Miller (hon treas-
urer); Mr H. Hardman spoke.
Suffolk—East Coast, Constable Brampton, Old Worlde
Fayre, Mrs Skelton (aux hon sec) and animal defenders, £13.

*

Southwold, jumble sale, £10; Old Tyme dance, £15;
military whist drive, £11.
*

Lowestoft, coffee party, Miss Meredith (aux hon sec),
£6 69.; jumble sale, £20.
Surrey——Epsom and District Ashtead, ﬁlm show, Mrs D.
Carter (AD group leader), £5.
Surrey—Guildford and District AM (branch), the Rev
A. C. B. Bellerby (branch chairman), Mr H. E. Roscoe
and Mr J. R. Simpson (branch. hon treas).

Surrey—Sutton and District Sutton, sale, Miss Sanders
assisted by Miss Brooks, £78 75. 6d.

Vale of Mowbray Northallerton, stall, Miss V. A. Jackson
(branch hon sec), £11 17s. 6d.

Worcestershire—Mid and Worcester At Upton, Miss
Thornton (branch hon sec) presented an RSPCA gallantry
certiﬁcate to Mrs Audrey Butler, who had rescued a dog

 

MUSIC HATH CHARMS
Picture sent by Mrs Evans of Streatham to Miss Tamplin,
Streatham, Brixton and Clapham Branch hon secretary

 

 

 

COLLECTIONS

(We give wherever possible the place at which the collection was made and the name of the organizer or organizers.)

1F LAG DAYS

Norton (Yorkshire), Mrs P. M. Pye—Oliver, div hon sec,
£95 75. 10d.; Breconshire, Mrs H. V. Bagshawe, branch
hon sec, £123 85. 8d.; Stokesley, Mrs Boyd and Miss
Dobson, £90; Retford, Mrs G. E. Hurst, aux hon sec,
£134 14s. 1d.; Northampton Borough, Mr F. Wood, aux
hon sec, (share of joint collection), £161; Swanscombe,
Miss R. E. Radburn, aux hon sec, £18 25. 2d.; Downham
Market, IVIrs W. Bird, aux hon sec, £39 145. 10d.; Burnham—
on‘Sea, Mr R. S. Dillon, aux hon sec, £39 65. 10d.; Bramley
(near Rotherham), Mrs Nixon and Mrs Murﬁn, £7 95. 9d.;
Swallownest (near Shefﬁeld), Mrs Sampson, £12 113. 3a.;
Netherhaugh (near Rotherham), Mrs J. Biddulph—Thompv
son, £7 23.; Kilnhurst, Miss Russell, aux hon sec, £4 15s.;
Harthill, Mrs Wall, aux hon sec, £11 135. 2d.; Thorpe Sal—
Vin, Mrs Dunne, £2 05. 6d.; Torpoint, Mrs Knott, £25;
Wadebridge, Mrs E. Williams, aux hon sec, £5 16s. 3d.;
Ashton—uinder’Lyne, Mrs W. S. Schoﬁeld, aux hon sec,
£91 105.; Reading, Miss E. M. Wadland, branch sec,
£344 163. 4d.; Dorset—North Branch (County Flag Day),
£129 15. 7d.; Southwold, Mrs H. H. Belcher, branch hon
56C, £54; Oundle and District, Miss V. M. Carpenter, aux
hon sec, £48 115. 7d.; Droitwich Spa, Mrs G. Duguid, aux
hon sec, £60 ls. 10d.; Clevedon, Mrs Willcocks, div hon
sec, £89 105.; Ilkley, Mr A. B. Swaine, branch chairman,
£127 53. 961.; Bristol, Mrs C. Croxton—Smith, branch hon
sec, £628 175. 10d.; North Shields, Mrs M. Frier, aux hon
sec (joint collection), £110; Walsall, Mr S. Long, branch
hon sec and treas, £409 105. 8d.; Gateshead—on—Tyne, Mrs
Lawton, aux hon sec, Mrs Wylie and Mrs Watson, £95;
Chapel—en—le—Frith, Mrs B. Webster, aux hon sec, £20 105. 9d.;
Trowbridge, Mrs E. E. Pitt, aux hon sec, £88 15. 8d.;
Rhondda, Miss J. W. Maddy, aux hon sec, £123 125. 5d.;
Porth (Rhondda), Mrs Megan Salmon, £31 105. 11d.;
Rotherham (works collection), Mrs K. Burgin, £6 65.;
Wrexham Branch (Flintshire), £235; Cirencester, £61 95. 11d.;
Hartlepool, Miss. McAuslan, branch hon sec, £29 45. .Zd.;
Swinton (Yorks), Mrs Bayley, aux hon sec, and Mrs Firth,
£9 145. 4d.; Liskeard, Mrs E. L. Hoar, aux hon sec,
£31 13. 11d.; Rothbury, Miss P. Whitton, aux hon sec,
£20 65. 3d.; Northumberland West Branch (rural areas),

Mrs J. C. Hanna, branch hon sec and aux hon secs,
£133 173.; Barnard Castle, Mrs G. Harris, aux hon sec,
£46 95. 1d.; Bishop Auckland, Miss G. C. Baines, aux hon
sec, £44 123. 2d.; Cudworth, near Barnsley, Mrs Swann,
aux hon sec, £16 45. 4d.; Bedale, Mrs Hone, aux hon sec,
£16 125. 43.; Llangollen, Major R. S.Archer, div chairman,
and Mrs R. Seddall, div hon sec, £54; Lancing, Miss E.
Tebbutt, £18 183. 4d.; Henley—on—Thames, Miss E. M.
Wadland, branch sec, £82 103. 10d.; Bridgwater, Mrs Scott,
aux hon sec, £132 65. 3d.; Hull Fair, Mr D. G. Sinclair,
branch sec, £134 175. 6d.; Sudbury and District, Mrs
Breakspear, aux hon sec, £104 185. 5d.

ESSEX JOINT ANIMAL FLAG DAY

Cambridgeshire (Saffron Walden), £16 153. 1d.; Essex——
Colchester and District, £464 115. 4d.; Essex—Mid,
Chelmsford and District, £428 105. 7d.; Essex-North'
West, £240 35. 10d.; Romford Division, £75 135.; Essex——
South, Southend, £211 35. 4d.; Essex—SouthaWest,
£33 83. 8d.; Harlow Division, £95 15. 10d.

FORTHCOMING FLAG DAY

A Flag Day for the Society is to be organized
in Spennymoor (Co. Durham), on Saturday,
December — 22. An appeal is made to any
readers who are able to assist this collection to
communicate with the local Hon Secretary,
whose name and address will gladly be sup—
plied by RSPCA Headquarters.

HOUSE TO HOUSE

Wolverton, Mrs Chappell, aux hon sec, £37 43. 4d.;
Leeds, Mrs Harrison, £2 75. 961.; Cromer, Cromer Aux
Committee, £27 75.; Suﬂield Park, Cromer Aux Com-
mittee, £8 65. 1d.; Polperro, Mr G. Libby, aux hon sec,

 




 

144 THEANIMAL WORLD

December 1956

 

£25 55. 3d.; Rolleston, Mrs H. Archer, aux hon sec,
£35 105.; Yardley Gobian, Miss P. Lewis, £7 ls. 8d.; Mir—
ﬁeld, Miss A. L. Duxbury, aux hon sec, £45 133. 6d.;
Rhoose, Mrs H.W. Ainsworth, branch hon sec, £6 115. 3d.;
Rowner, Mrs Hoskins, aux hon sec, £7 123.; Heighington,
Mrs McFall, aux hon sec, £5 15.; Wearhead, Mrs Fletcher,
aux hon sec, £7 19s. 5d.; Wolsingham, Miss S. Downie,
aux hon sec, £15 25. 6d.; Newhaven, Miss C. Budd and Mrs
Horlock, co aux hon secs, £34 135.; Barnborough, Mrs
Mennell, £12 105.

LARGE BOX COLLECTIONS

Davy Gate, York, Mrs Featherston and Mrs Garside,
£40; two years since June 1954, collected, £41 113. 2d., Mrs
Collinson, of Terry’s Corner House Cafe, Buxton; over
£40 collected in Matlock and District; £23 133. 10d., sea—
front at Sheringham between June and early September;
the Harbour .Cafe, Bridlington, June to September,
£84 Os. 6d.; cinema lounge, Aberystwyth, £5 15s. 10%d.;
Polpierrcg, £37; Hunstanton, £30; Llandudno, £250; South—
wol , £ . '

STORE COLLECTIONS

Mr R. A. Houghton, Kilburn auxiliary hon sec, with the
help of his committee, organized store collections and
raised£256 105. 5d. for the Animal War Memorial Clinic.

PONY—FEEDING BAN

Motorists Who feed wild ponies on Dartmoor
and Exmoor on the roadside will be liable in
, future to a ﬁne of £5 under a byealaw passed by
the Devon County Council. This action has
been taken to prevent ponies being killed as a
result of following cars for food.

 

Bl NOCULARS WANTED

 

Binoculars are urgently needed for
RSPCA RESCUE WORK

Readers are invited to send to Headquarters any
of these instruments for which they have no more
use

BINOCULARS ADDRESSED
Chief Secretary, RSPCA,
I05 Jermyn Street, London, SWI

WILL BE GRATEFULLY ACKNOWLEDGED
and will be promptly allotted

TO INSPECTORS IN AREAS WHERE THEY ARE
MOST URGENTLY NEEDED

 

OBITUARY I

With sincere regret we report these deaths: Miss
A. Ridley, hon sec of Sturminster Newton
Auxiliary; Supt Percy Teague, a supporter; Mr
P. Hale, vice’chairman of Yorks—Harrogate
Branch Committee; Lt—Comdr R. L. Tufnell,
former member of the RSPCA Council; Miss F.
Copsey, member of Finchley Branch Committee;
Miss M. Sword, member of Durham Branch
Committee; Mr Walter West, chairman of
Dewsbury Auxiliary Committee; Mr Frank
Wood, hon sec of Northampton Town Auxiliary;
Mr J. Jarvis, a supporter.

RSPCA FILM NEWS

The Society’s ﬁlms were shown recently at:- ‘

Great Yarmouth, Nottingham, Croydon, Kingston-upon—
Hull, Shooters Hill, Sidestrand, Ashtead, Bermondsey,
Penketh, E. Blatchington, Bolton, Bournemouth, Nuneaton,
West Bergholt, Topsham, Honiton, Gateshead, Bexleyv
heath, Withycombe Raleigh, Norwich, East Ham, Brighton,
Codsall, Highams Park, Clapham Common, Birmingham,
Bradford, Stockton—oanees, Sherborne, Glapwell, Gilling—
ham, Rugby, Craven Arms, Beeston, Sale, Battersea, Wrex—
ham, Sudbury, Peterborough, South London, Woolwich,
Lincoln, Galphay, Llanelly, Etwall, Swanscombe, Frimley,
Whitley Bay, Islington, Edmonton, Hackney, Cheltenham,
Ottery St Mary, Sidbury, Chipping Campden, Northamp—
ton, Irelath, Risca, Stonebroom, Kirkby—in—Ashﬁeld,

‘ Mansﬁeld, Warrington, Blackpool, Sheerness, Windsor,

Exeter, Andoversford, Worcester Park, Maidstone, Lark-
hill, Hawksworth Wood, Leeds, Leverington, Chipping
Norton, Kendal, Minehead.

 

 

 

 

TEMPLE cox CAPTIVE
BOLT SLAUGHTERING
GUNS

Specially recommended and used by the RSPCA

THREE MODELS—ALL SILENT IN
ACTION

‘UNIVERSAL’ for all animals
‘SMALLS’ for all small animals
‘MARK 6’ for all animals. Designed for heavy

use in large Abattoirs and Freezing Works

TEMPLE COX DEVELOPMENT CO. LTD
HIGH STREET, BROMLEY, KENT

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

ANIMAL WORLD 4d.

The price of this magazine will be increased next
month to 4d. Annual subscriptions will cost 65.

A HOOPOE OVER MAJORCA

A.l<., the writer of this poem (last issue of
Animal World), is the wellvknown writer and
lecturer, Anne Kennington.

 

FLAG DAYS AND HOUSE—TO—HOUSE COLLECTIONS IN 1957

We are advised that the Royal Air Forces overlap with collections proposed by other

Association proposes to organize house—to— organizations but should this happen the

house collections under an order of exempv Royal Air Forces Association suggests local

tion granted by the Home Secretary from ofﬁcials should get into touch with the

September 9 to 14 inclusive. The National General Secretary, Royal Air Forces Associ—

‘Wings Day’ street collection will take place ation, 83 Portland Place, London, W1, in

September 14, 1957. order that an attempt may be made to
The Association hopes these dates do not arrange dates amicably.

 

 

 

‘

:i
‘ l
l
I
..
l
I
;.

This RSPCA advertisement,
which has appeared in most
influential newspapers,
reminds supporters that they
should urge their friends not
to attend performing

animal shows.

 

 

This reminder is urgent

 

at Christmas time when

T R A V E I- l- l N G P R I S o N l . exhibitors of performing

animals are most active.

Driven through the restless night, jolted over byways and Showgrounds Without patronage these
during the day, the travelling circus is on its way to provide yet another exhibitions would come
:1, \ town with an hour or 30’s amusement . . . Pent in cages just large. to an end.
5/ / enough to satisfy the too-modest requirements of the law are captive

creatures from the jungle and the spacious sunlit plains——
bewildered, raging or resigned. The bear on the motor cycle, the lion
who leaps through a ﬂaming hoop—wretched prisoners forced to
perform to a timetable. Forever caged, for them there is no appeal,
and no release until death. When we attend their performances,
WHAT are we condoning ? . . . Please help the RSPCA to prevent this
exploitation of wild animals. Gifts for sale, donations and legacies
will be gratefully received. Please write to the Chief Secretary,
RSPCA, 105 Jermyn Street, London, SW1.

Remember the R s P c A

   




 

 

 

R.S.P.C.A_=

 

 

 

FORM OF BEQUEST FOR NATIONAL WORK

To those benevolent individuals who may wish to become benefactors by Will to this
Society, the following form is respectfully suggested :—

‘I bequeath to the ROYAL SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OE CRUELTY TO ANIMALS, founded
1824, for the general purposes of that Society, the sum of £ .......................................... , free
of death duty and the receipt of the Treasurer for the time being of the said Society shall
be sufﬁcient discharge for such legacy.’ (If it should be desired that the legacy should be exe

pended on some particular phase of the Society’s work, a direction to this eﬁect may be added to the

form of bequest.)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

NOTE
By the Act of William IV and I Victoria, cap. 26, all Wills or Codicils must be in Writing signed by the

Testator, and attested by two witnesses in the presence of the Testator and of each other.

— r-
— —' f

 

 

 

 

@NEE‘CCDRMS

HOBSON & SONS CAPS HELMETS LEATHER

Manufacturers of

UNIFORM CLOTHING

(LONDON) LTD BELTS POUCHES etc. etc

Gold and Silver Laces
Embroideries Of every

All inquiries to description for ALL
154-164 TOOLEY STREET UNIFORMED SERVICES

LONDON BRIDGE S.E.1 PATTERNS OF CLOTH
and ESTIMATES

Telephone: HOP 2476 (4 lines) will be forwarded free of charge
Telegrams: HOBSON, BOROH, LONDON

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Printed by Shenval Press, Simson Shand Ltd, London, Hertford and Harlow, and
published by Arthur W. Moss for the RSPCA at 105 Jermyn Street, London, SW1

 




