 

 

 

February 1958

knew—and he didn’t like it. Neither did Kathleen.
She longed to have her husband at home all the
week, instead of just for weekends.

‘But when Peter decided to take a job working
with animals, as he’d always wanted to, I tried
to put him off,’ she said. ‘He was thirty~f1ve
then, and I thought he was too old to take on
something new. Even though it meant he could
work from home, I still felt it was wrong to make
such a drastic change.’

Peter settled the argument by applying for his
new job with the RSPCA and telling Kathleen
afterwards.

‘Oh, all right,’ she agreed. ‘Since I can’t stop
you. I’ll do what I can to help you.’

Sat up late

During his training course, thirty—fourryearrold
Kathleen sat up late at night testing Peter on his
homework. When he qualiﬁed, she cheerfully
packed their belongings and moved from the
country to a house in a busy London suburb.

Since then Kathleen’s home has always been
open to sick, strayed and injured animals, birds
and even an occasional snake, which is locked
in the garage until Peter can set it free, if it’s
harmless, in the country.

'She helps to wash injured birds in the
kitchen sink and prepare food and sleeping
space for lost and homeless cats and dogs.

When the word gets around that there’s an
owl at Mr Coomber’s, or a fox cub, a heron or
some other unusual guest, she welcomes local
children who want to inspect it.

 

Photograph by courtesy of the Yorkshire Evening Post
A feeble sound issuing from a shed attracted the attention
of a man'in an AsPhalt Factory. Investigating he found
‘Tambi’ (pictured above) stuck in two to three inches of
bitumen in a box a yard square. The RSPCA was called and
‘Tambi’, after release, was cleaned and cared for at an
RSPCA Dogs’ Home, who returned her to a grateful
owner, who restored ‘Tambi’ to health by hourly feeding

THE ANIMAL WORLD 23

‘It’s a hectic life, but now I’m as keen on it as
Peter is,’ she laughed. ‘And we do get some funny
calls——like the man who asked if Peter would
remove a lizard from his coalshed. We told him
to leave the door open and the lizard would gladly
remove itself.’

Sometimes the telephone rings as often as
twenty times while Peter is out at his clinic,
answering emergency calls or attending animal
cruelty cases at court.

Kathleen competently handles these urgent

appeals for help and advice as well as getting six—
year.old Robert ready for school, looking after
her two little daughters, threeayear—old Margaret
and baby Brenda, and cooking meals at odd times
for Peter.

Old man’s thanks

If Kathleen is ever tempted to be a little sharp
with callers when she’s busy around the house,
she remembers the old gentleman who spent
half an hour on the phone telling her the life
history of his pet cat.

The baby was crying loudly, the kettle was
boiling over and Kathleen was impatient to get
away from the telephone.

‘But before I could ask the old gentleman why
he’d telephoned when his cat was perfectly fit,
he told mezuf‘rYou’re the first person I’ve spoken
to for ages. Thank you so much for listening”.’

There is no nicer reward for Kathleen’s patience
and understanding than a moment like this-wand
the knowledge that- she is helping not only her
husband, but other animal lovers, too.

PAT ,, WILCOX

TEN
M lN UTES
OLD

This caption was
given by Mrs
Pughe-Evans,
Monmouthshire
branch hon sec,
who took the
photographs on
Sirhowy Moun-
tain, near Trede-
gar, when she
went to see Mrs
Salmon, hon sec
for Tredegar.
The more had
only just foaled
before her ar-
rival. ln the sec-
ond picture the
more has per-
suaded the foal
to stand

- -.~.‘-~‘;n. ;_‘.....£... .

 

 




atin QThe Winged ‘Messenger’

6

 

 

 




' Moors in the North Riding of Yorkshire.

February 1958

THE ANIMAL WORLD 17

 

 

in the middle of the building. . . . From here
one goes to the poultry section; the pens are
all metal and are in tiers of three and are lined
against the wall and all are under shelter. . . .
The selling ring for the cattle is under cover
. . . there is also a long covered dairy cow stall
and some-cover for store cattle. The cattle pens
are of the latest tubular pens and the gates are
so made that they open any way and thereby
save cattle many a knock on the head to turn
them against a “shut” gate. There is a separate
section for pigs and part of this is covered for
young store pigs and breeding sows and it also
includes special high pens for boar pigs which

 

SAFETY FOR LAMBS AND SHEEP

inspector Burr of Scarborough, with the
co-operation of the Royal Automobile Club,
had these warning signs erected on the

The signs will help, it is hoped, to reduce
the number of sheep and lambs injured or
killed on the unfenced roads through the
Moors

prevents them climbing over the rails to get at
a sow or another boar to ﬁght. . . . Apart from
a few “teething” troubles the market went
very smoothly considering the large inﬂux of
animals today and I feel sure that both animals
and men will have a much better time at this
Market in the future.’

>l<

At Guildford Market, Chief Inspector Ryan
has persuaded the auctioneers to sell the calves
early in the day, so that they are removed from
the premises before they become tired and dis«
tressed.

 

 

REFUGEE REPAYS

This letter has been received with a donation
towards the Society’s funds, in token of gratitude,
by the Chief Secretary of the RSPCA from a
British resident who had to leave Egypt:

‘We have today got back from the Hackbridge
Kennels, after their period of quarantine, our
two dogs from Egypt. I am most deeply grateful
to your Association for your ﬁnancial help in
this matter, without which it would have been
very difﬁcult for us to have kept them in the
Kennels.’

 

SPRING ’TRAPS

An order has been made under Section 8 (3) of
the Pests Act, 1954, approving these traps for
use in, England and Wales:

The Imbra Trap Mark I and Mark II, as well
as the Juby Trap for killing or taking rabbits in
rabbit holes and for killing or taking grey
squirrels and stoats, weasels, rats, mice or other

small ground vermin in artiﬁcial tunnels con;
structed for the purpose.

The Penn Vermin Traps Mark I, II and III
have approval for killing or taking grey squirrels
and stoats, weasels, rats, mice or other small
ground vermin in artiﬁcial tunnels set for the
purpose or for killing or taking rats and mice in
the open on their runs.

The Fuller Trap has approval for killing or
taking grey squirrels.

Section 8 (3) of the Pests Act gives the Minister
of Agriculture power to specify by Order traps of
which he approves.

@bz'tuary

With sincere regret we report the deaths of the
following supporters: Mrs Bushnell, Mrs Pema
berton, Miss Robey and Miss Caroline Badland
(aged 102).

WARNlNG: overleaf are illustrated case reports!

 

 

 




 

 

COLLECTIONS

(We give wherever possible the place at which the collection was made and the name of the organizer or organizers)

HOUSE TO HOUSE

£
Leyland, Miss_.J Fisher, aux hon sec. 66
West Drayton and Yiewsley, Mr H. Button,
aux hon sec. 78
Abergele, Mrs Manners, aux hon sec 50
Leeds, Mr A. Futrell, branch hon sec 2
Lee—on—Solent, Mrs Urry, aux hon sec 45
Goodwick, Miss L Holmes, aux hon sec 5
St Ishmaels 2
Stockport and District, Mrs Cooper, branch
hon sec 72
Sidmouth, Sidbury and S Regis, Miss Page,
aux hon sec 119

Wolverton, Mrs Chappell, aux hon sec 41
Colwyn Bay and District, Mrs Owen Evans
(branch hon sec), Mrs Lloyd Jones (Llan
wrst hon sec), Mrs Williams (Glan Con

way hon sec) 161
Dartford, Mrs Bradshaw, aux hon sec 66
Gravesend, Mrs Pollen, aux hon sec 102
Maesteg, Miss J. Rees . 43
Groesgoch, MissJ. Llewellyn 6
Cheddar, Mr]. J. Tyson, aux hon sec 14
Frodsham, Mrs Ravenscroft, aux hon sec 30
Wiltshire—Mid, Miss R Goddard, branch

hon sec 21

Rottingdean and Saltdean, Miss Tredennick 17
Redditch, Mr and Mrs B G. Davis” ..

M

I—‘v

I-l

H
0-P- -\] UIOOOO\-\‘ICX)

NON wwowxo-qw

y—A

Hp—L

ow w mowwom $9

i—nOOO—POH

N00

Bidford—on—Avon, Mrs Goulbourne, aux hon
sec)

Wellington (organized by Committee)

Banbury Town, Mrs Hall

Hastings, Mrs V Alexander.

Felixstowe, MissJ. Smith, aux hon sec

Aldeburgh, MissJ. Winn, aux hon sec ..

Suffolk East and Ipswich, MrsE. E. Crawford,
branch hon sec .

March, Mrs French and Mrs Morton, co
aux hon secs

Crewe, Miss M Lewis Dale, aux hon sec

1F LAG DAYS

Coventry, Mrs Mocatta, branch hon sec
Bedale, Mrs Hone, aux hon sec

‘SPANIEL’
ST HELENs: £36 1n 12 months.

396
16

15

18
10
14
19

14

H
oo-q‘.”

H 9*

1...;
#00 U1 \OO\OU‘li—li—A

\O-P-P“

SITTINGBOURNE: At a music and toy shop, during Novem—

ber, £5 113. 3d.

BLACKPOOL: In stores and hotels during 1957, over £400.
LEEDS: In a toy shop, £8 85. (Box placed by Mrs Rogers.)

LEEK: £18 in 5 months, in another ‘Spaniel’ the amount

collected 18 £5 in one month

CHESTERFIELD: In one large chain store, £14 165. in three
weeks; in another store the amount was £9 115. 3d. in

two weeks.

 

 

 

 

SATURDAY, MAY IOth,

I958

House-to—house Collection
(Metropolitan Area)

May 4th to IOth (inclusive)

gift
+EI4K
COLLECTORS U RG ENTLY
REQUIRED

+
7145

Please write to :—
Appeals Dept., RSPCA
I05 Jermyn Street, London, SWI

stating where and when you can collect

 

 

LONDON JOINT ANIMAL FLAG DAY

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

GUNS

ACTION

‘UNIVERSAL’ for all animals
‘SMALLS’ for all small animals

 

TEMPLE COX CAPTIVE
BOLT SLAUGHTERING

Specially recommended and used by the RSPCA
THREE MODELS—ALL SILENT IN

‘MARK 6’ for all animals. Designed for heavy

use in large Abattoirs and Freezing Works

TEMPLE COX DEVELOPMENT CO. LTD
HIGH STREET, BROMLEY, KENT

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

‘Af‘ ‘ ‘4

February 1958 ’

everywhere. Apply this to the question discussed
in this article. Many people would agree that it is
quite proper to be merciful and kind to certain
creatures—horses, dogs, cats—and especially to
your own; but that it would be absurd to suppose
that snakes, toads, lobsters, and suchlike creav
tures, can claim consideration from us human
beings. But our Lord didn’t say that we were to
be merciful to this, that, and the other animal.
He said: ‘Be ye therefore merciful’. That is, we
are to possess the quality of mercy, as an abiding
possession, which will operate in relation to all——
whether human beings or animals—and whether
attractive or unattractive—with whom we come
in contact. The Christian, as such, is always on
duty; he has no ‘early closing day’ nor any
‘holidays with pay’.

To conclude: I have written brieﬂy, and have
had to leave out much more—which I could have
wished to write. But to two ﬁnal points I must
refer.

Mere abstention from cruelty is not enough.
We know what the initials RSPCA stand for.
I could wish that they might stand for The Royal
Society for the Promotion of Care (or Considera’
tion) for Animals. In practice, this is, no doubt,
the interpretation put upon the initials by those
who serve the Society. For, to abstain from
wrongdoing is not enough; we have to do the
right, to animals, as well as to people.

Finally, what about animals and a future life?
Will they share it? The question is dealt with at
some length in a book called The Hope of Immor’
tality, by Dr J. E. C. Welldon. I have not space to
reproduce his arguments, but his conclusion
(which many others seem to share) is that ‘the
considerations adduced for man’s immortality
must be held to support, though with inferior
emphasis, the immortality of other living creav
tures’.

I suspect that if anyone had said to St Francis:
‘Of Course you know that in heaven there will be
no animals or birds’———he might have replied: ‘So
you say; but that is not my idea of heaven’.

B. H.

Editorial Note—As readers are aware, the
Society’s name is universally known, and to
change would only cause confusion. When the
Society was founded, in 1824, the task of pre
venting cruelty absorbed all its efforts; for many
years past its function has been the promotion of
kindness as its multifarious activities show.

 

School Lectures

Since the last report sixtyaﬁve lectures were given
in schools in Southport, Devon, Sussex, Mon—
mouth, Reading, Oxford, Faversham, Essex and
the London area.

THE ANIMAL WORLD 21

Heroes’ Corner

INSPECTOR IN PIT WITH
PLUNCGING HORSE

Senior Inspector Checksﬁeld and Mr A. Crow—
hurst, MRCVS, were in a pit with a horse that
had fallen when the animal plunged forward,
knocked the Inspector over, and kicked him.
Luckily, he was only grazed and bruised.

The pit (at Heath Road, Broughton, Maidv
stone) was 14 feet deep, 3 feet wide and twice
the length of the horse. The Inspector and the
veterinary surgeon climbed into the pit to ﬁt
slings, a difﬁcult task in the cramped space.

After his mishap, the Inspector was asked to
leave the pit by Mr Crowhurst, but he said he
had broken no bones and he would stay until the
horse was rescued—or, if that proved necessary,
was humanely despatched.

A mechanical digger was brought and lowered,
dislodging stones and earth during the descent.
Shoring had to be removed before the operation,
increasing the risk of the sides caving in.

The weight of the mechanical digger con—
tributed to the dangers of subsidence, but the
horse was ﬁnally lifted clear, suffering from the
effects of a small cut and slight shock.

Bronze Medals

The Inspector and the veterinary surgeon have
each received the RSPCA bronze medal for gal;
lantry, and the same award has gone to Mr J.
Holland and Station Ofﬁcer Rice.

Mr Holland was lowered near the stern of a
ship at Gladstone Dock, Liverpool. A cat had
fallen between the ship and the dock wall. A dock;
side worker, Mr Holland knew the danger of the
rescue; the ship was moving in the high wind,
and he was liable to be crushed between the
ship’s side and the dock wall. He was ﬁnally
hauled to safety carrying the cat.

Braving the dangers of falling stone, Station
Ofﬁcer Rice descended a disused mineshaft at
the old Pennant Lead Mines, Rhuallt, Flintshire,
to rescue a dog that had fallen. The shaft was
about 20 feet across, with loose stone and shale
round the mouth; in depth it was 120 feet.
When the Station Ofﬁcer reached the lower foot, ,
he found that the frightened dog had gone lower
into the old workings and was 40 feet away from
him. When he had been able to collect the dog,
he sent it to the surface before returning himself.
The dog was given veterinary treatment.

A lamp used in the rescue was put out of
action by falling stones.

 

Something indispensable! A list of RSPCA Publications——
available from the Society’s London Headquarters.

 

 




 

ANIMAEHWORLD ’

THE OFFICIAL MAGAZINE OF THE RSPCA

Vol LIII No 2 New Series

FEBRUARY I 9 58

PRICE FOURPEN CE

6s. per annum. Post Paid

 

 

SON GUARD

At any time, the RSPCA is ready to list aspects of
animal welfare in which it is urgently seeking
Parliamentary reform. The importance attached
to this work is a measure at once of the serious’
ness with which the Society views its role and of
its recognition that animal protection cannot
stand still. What is good enough today will not
satisfy the Society tomorrow. Humane ideas
must change and improve with the advancing
reﬁnements of civilization. The RSPCA will see
that they do; its workers know that they can
count upon the goodwill of an increasing band of
supporters.

Whilst the Society has ever before it a vision
of the brightest possible world for animals, it
never loses sight of the practical problems as they
exist in the world of today. Of this the numerous
people found guilty of cruelty to animals are only
too well aware.

Every gain in the sphere of animal protection
must be safeguarded with as much energy and
vigilance as was spent in achieving it.

Four years ago, the Pests Act became law.
During its passage through Parliament, the
RSPCA conducted a powerful campaign to en,
lighten the public about the suffering caused to
rabbits by the dread disease of myxomatosis.
Public feeling (aroused in a large measure by this
campaign) reﬂected itself in the mood of Parlia—
ment, and as a result a clause was inserted in the
Act forbidding the artiﬁcial spreading of the
disease.

Last year, Lord Dynevor introduced into the
House of Lords a Bill seeking to amend this Act.
The effect of the amendment would have been—
among other things—to nullify this humane
clause and to .make legal the artiﬁcial spreading of
myxomatosis. '

RSPCA Headquarters lost no time in acquaint—
ing the Peers with its views. Members of the
House of Lords were at great pains to ﬁnd out
as much as possible about the disease and the

problems to which it gave rise. The Society
placed its knowledge at their service.

A ' humane advance was threatened. The
RSPCA was on guard.

When the amending Bill was discussed, in its
Second Reading stage, in the House of Lords, it
was defeated on a free vote by 40 votes to 15.

It is heartening to know that Earl St Aldwyn,
Parliamentary Secretary to the Ministry of Agri»
culture, opposed the Bill for the Government.
In recommending the rejection of the Bill, he
acknowledged the importance of controlling
rabbit numbers, and continued: ‘To help us in
this task, the Minister and the Secretary of State,
have decided to set up, as soon as possible, an
Advisory Council on Rabbit Clearance to keep
the problem, in all its aspects, under constant
review.’ '

It will thus be seen that though the Bill has
been thrown out there is no less need for vigi—
lance on the part of the RSPCA. Though an
attempt to change the existing law against the
artiﬁcial spreading of myxomatosis may not
readily be made, the activities of the new Ad—
visory Council will need to be watched.

As a responsible body, the RSPCA admits that
rabbit numbers must be controlled, but its View
is that control methods must be swift and
humane.

Lord Dynevor admitted that his Bill had caused
dismay in some quarters, which thought it cruel.
He considered the rabbit a pest and merely
wanted it dealt with in the same way as those
well—intentioned people would do with the rat.

The comment of the RSPCA on this assertion
is that for rats, too, the methods of control
should be as speedy and humane as possible.

There is not an aspect of animal welfare in
which the RSPCA is not interested. It will con—
tinue to advance and to consolidate in its chosen
sphere so long as it enjoys the support of people
of goodwill. EDITOR

 

WARNING!

In accordance with custom, we warn readers that the two centre pages are devoted to reports and pictures illustrating
prosecutions, which are likely to upset the sensitive

 




February 1958

OVER 100 SHEEP PACKED IN LORRY_

A farmer and butcher was found guilty, at
Axbridge Magistrates’ Court, of permitting unv
necessary suffering to sheep being carried in a
road vehicle. It was alleged that twentyvtwo sheep
and one ram, being part of a load of sheep being
conveyed on a lorry, were, owing to illness, inv
ﬁrmity or fatigue, not capable of being carried
without causing them unnecessary suffering.

Stopped
The lorry was stopped by a police ofﬁcer who
ordered the driver to proceed to a playing ﬁeld,
where the sheep—109 in all (including the ram)
—-were unloaded. Senior Inspector Nairn and a
veterinary surgeon were called and the latter
ordered that the ram and twenty’two sheep
should be immediately conveyed to the nearest
abattoir and slaughtered. The defendant pleaded

not guilty, but, after a hearing which extended

over three and a half hours, the chairman told him
the Bench found him guilty. He would be ﬁned
£20 and also have to pay a total of £15 83. costs.
The Magistrates dismissed a summons which
alleged the defendant had been guilty of per;
mitting the lorry to be overcrowded.

Ram in State of Collapse

The driver of the lorry was ﬁned £1 on the
summons for causing unnecessary suffering to
the sheep and the Bench similarly dismissed the
summons alleging overcrowding. A veterinary
surgeon said the ram was in a state of collapse
and made no attempt to move. It was suffering
from foot rot. Quite a few of the sheep were lame
and distressed. A police constable said when he
stopped the lorry several sheep were down on the
ﬂoor and could not get up owing to being packed
in so tightly. Other sheep were in a distressed
condition and he formed the opinion that the
sheep were not ﬁt to travel.

‘Milling About’
Senior Inspector Nairn said he saw the lorry load
of sheep before it was unloaded. Several sheep
were on the ﬂoor and the rest were ‘milling about’
trampling on top of them. He saw one sheep
actually lying on its back with all four feet off
the ﬂoor and presumed the animal was dead, but
later found it was not. All the sheep were

breathing heavily and appeared distressed.
(B.Z378.)

‘DOG SENTENCED TO LIVING DEATH’

‘A farmer is supposed to be better able to look
after animals than the man in the street, but I
suggest that this man deliberately wrote off the
dog in his mind and sentenced it to a living death.’
This was stated by a solicitor prosecuting for-the

THE ANIMAL WORLD 19

RSPCA, when a man was charged at Whitby
with causing unnecessary suffering to a dog. The
man, who pleaded ‘not guilty’, was ﬁned £5,
ordered to pay £9 95. costs, and banned from
keeping a dog for two years. He was also ﬁned £1
for having no dog licence.

‘Weighed only 20 lb.’

Inspector W. G. Burr said he visited the man’s
farm and found the dog, a black and white collie
bitch, shut up in a stable. It was emaciated with
protruding bones, and claws one inch long. The
dog appeared frightened of its owner. When
the Inspector produced a slice of bread, the dog
ate ravenously, and it was so eager to reach it,
that it caught his ﬁnger. A veterinary surgeon
said the dog weighed only 20 1b., and was weak
through starvation and neglect. He destroyed it
because he saw no other practical way of re—
leasing it from suffering.

Fed twice a day

The defendant, on oath, said the dog was fed
twice a day with bread, dog biscuits and occa—
sionally meat. He maintained that it had been
shut up only that afternoon. The same morning
it was in the ﬁelds with him, and chased a hare,
and turned it eight or nine times. He said the
dog was just recovering from distemper, but had
always been a bit thin. He thought it should have
been returned to him by the vet. (B. 2910.)

 

 

‘An extremely bad case of cruelty to a poor little harmless
puppy’—said the RSPCA, when prosecuting a man for
unlawfully causing unnecessary suffering to a puppy by
unreasonably killing in an improper manner. The man was
fined £5 and £5 55. costs, and disqualiﬁed from keeping a dog
or holding a dog licence for 5 years, when he was brought
before the magistrates at Harlow.

Several blows must have been given by a heavy blunt
instrument, causing great pain and suffering. Later the head
of a pick-axe (an iron bar) was handed over to the RSPCA.
The puppy was only three months old. (B.l I34; Patrol
Oﬁicer Gold)

 

 




 

February 1958

THE ANIMAL WORLD 15

PERFORMING ANIMALS .

Critiques of performances in famous circuses
that appeared at the opening of the Christmas
season included three of special interest to
readers of Animal World.

The Times had the following about one circus:

‘When one of the pretty riders was gently
carried by an elephant with her head in its
mouth, the authentic suspense, the sense of
danger, inseparable from a circus, showed
through the glossy presentation. It came again,
uncomfortably, when the tiger grew troublev
some. Mr Alex Kerr dismissed him, then
called him back to the ring in a tense atmos«
phere. Yet, only a few minutes before, Khan
had growled a message obediently into the
microphone and it had seemed as if even the
carnivores would submit to streamlined pro—
duction techniques.’

The latter ‘act’ was dealt with by the Daily
Telegraph as follows:

‘Alex Kerr’s tigers, much less biddable
beasts, burned bright in the forest of green
bars, and there were murmurs of “bless ’em”
as the great cats swung and bowed.’

How Blake would have exploded at being
quoted in this context! It is humanitarians who

are accused of sentimentality, but can this passage
be beaten for obtuse sloppiness?

Of another famous circus The Times reported
on the following day:

‘Animals are this year’s main disappointa
ment. Al de Jonghe’s troupe of “college
educated” chimpanzees, ignominiously clad
in the usual feminine frills, failed to perform
with the exuberance and precision which would
save them from appearing degraded. And
Krone’s “twelve mighty polar bears”, even
encaged with the alluring Miss Doris Arndt,
appeared limp, spiritless creatures, whose en—
thusiasm was raised only by ﬂasks of milk.’

>l<

In its review of Chipperﬁeld’s Circus by Pamela
MacgregorrMorris The Times Literary Supplement
on December 6, 1957, had the following:

‘As enthusiasts usually do, she sometimes
protests too much, notably when she takes up
the cudgels against the RSPCA and against
anyone who accuses the circus of cruelty to
animals. The chapter in which this subject is
treated is unpleasantly aggressive and juvenile
in feeling.’

 

PARLTAMENTARY NEWS
OIL POLLUTION

The Government’s continued desire to solve
the problem of oil pollution of the sea is proven
by the publication of Manual on the Avoidance of
pollution of the Sea by Oil. This Ministry of Trans»
port and Civil Aviation manual is available price
13. from Her Majesty’s Stationery Ofﬁce. It
recalls the strenuous efforts made both nationally
and internationally to solve the problem. An
introductory note reminds readers that the law
can impose penalties, but pollution of the sea
will only cease if every master, ofﬁcer and seaman
and, in addition, those on shore engaged in the
transfer of oil to and from ships, do all they can
to prevent oil getting into it. Clear and detailed
advice is given on the prevention of spillage,
leakage and accidental discharges, and the Oil in
Navigable Waters Act, 1955, is summarized.
A chart. shows the limits of the United Kingdom
prohibited zone.

Export of Live Cattle

MR GRANT—FERRIS asked the Minister of Agriculr
ture, Fisheries and Food whether he is aware
that the sixtyamile limit of travel from the port
of entry of cattle export from the United King,
dom is causing hardship, especially to many
small farmers; and what steps he will take to
alleviate this.

MR GODBER: While it is estimated that the
numbers of cattle for slaughter being exported at
present are lower than they were this time last
year, the average domestic prices realized for
steers and heifers this year have been higher than
those in the corresponding period last year. The
home prices of cows tend to fall at this season,
but are much the same this year as they were
last.

MR GRANTvFERRIS: Is there any consistency
whatever in a rule like this, because cattle often
have to travel more than sixty miles in this coun—
try? Cattle which are travelling must be watered
at least every twelve hours. Surely it ought to be
possible to arrange for that to be done on the
Continent.

MR GODBER: The Balfour Committee went into
the matter very thoroughly, and it was largely as
a result of its recommendations that these
restrictions were imposed. We have tried to deal
with the position fairly from the point of View
of both the cruelty aspect and the position of
home farmers, and I hope that in some respects
we have succeeded.

LADY TWEEDSMUIR: Can my hon Friend say
whether the Continental countries are observing
the regulation?

MR GODBER: Yes, I think I can say that, certainly
in respect of the countries which are receiving
imports at present—Holland and Western Ger!
many. -

 




 

\
\

ROYAL SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS
Founded 1824 Headquarters: 105 Jermyn Street, London, S.W.1

P A T R O N S
HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN
HER MAJESTY QUEEN ELIZABETH, THE QUEEN MOTHER
HER ROYAL HIGHNESS PRINCESS ALICE COUNTESS OF ATHLONE
HER ROYAL HIGHNESS PRINCESS ARTHUR OF CONNAUGHT

VICE-PRESIDENTS
SIR MALCOLM SARGENT, HON LLD, DMUS, FRCM, FRSA
THE EARL OF SHAFTESBURY, KP, PC

 

THE COUNCIL

Chairman: THE RT HON LORD MERTHYR, DL, TD, JP
Vice-Chairman: *MRS WALLIS POWER, JP

AGIUS, THE REV. DOM. AMBROSE, OSB, MA GARDNER, HON. JULIET *PRITCHARD,MRS D.

AILWYN, THE RT HON LORD *HARVEY, MRS J. w., MA *RATTRAY, R. F., ESQ, MA, PH.D
*ALLIBERT, MRS HOBHOUSE. J. S. ESQ. RISELEY, MRS R. c.
*ALSOP, ALDERMAN A. J., FRCA, FCIS, JP HOWELL, BASIL P., ESQ, MBE *RIECK, H. H., ESQ

ANDERSON, L. K., ESQ., MRCVS, DVM. *HUNTER, MISS SIBLY. w. A., ESQ, MA, JP

BERTIE 0F THAME, THE RT HON THE VISCOUNTESS LFE, MRS E. M. SNELL, ALDERMAN THE REV PREBENDARY L. J. B.

BRANSOM, MISS L. G., FRSA LLEWELLYN, THE REV CANON LEONARD, L.TH. MBE, TD, HON.CF (HEREFORD)

BYWATER, H. E., ESQ., MRCVS LOCKWOOD, LT-COL J. C., JP, TD *TAIT, MRS, MA

DORCHESTER, LT-COL THE RT HON LORD, OBE, JP LONGMAN, MRS W. *WALEORD, MRS DESBOROUGH
*DOWDELL, MRS M. R. MACNAGHTEN, MR A. WARDS, COLONEL, GT, CMG, OBE

ESTCOURT—OSWALD, MISS AGNES, MB (LOND), DPH *McPHAIL, MRS ALISON LETITIA, MB, CH.B *WHITE, HARRY, ESQ, FCA

(CANTAB), DOMS MOORE, LT-COL SIR THOMAS, BART, CBE, MP WILLERT, SIR ARTHUR, KBE

‘EVANS, MRS DAVID, BA POULETT, THE RT HON THE EARL *WINCHESTER, F. J., ESQ, FCIS, FSS

 

 

GALWAY, THE DOWAGER VISCOUNTESS *Denotes Branch Representative

 

OFFICE BEARERS APPOINTED BY THE COUNCIL

Hon Treasurer—LT-COL J. C. LOCKWOOD, JP, TD Chief Secretary—JOHN HALL, ESQ

Deputy Hon Treasurer—HARRY WHITE, Eso, FCA Assistant Secretaries—D. A. L. CAMM. ESQ, BA
Hon Medical Ofﬁcer—A. N. CRAWFORD, ESQ, FRCSI ALLAN JOINER, ESQ
Bankers—MESSRS COUTTS AND CO, STRAND, LONDON Legal Secretary—R. MURRAY, ESQ

Chief Veterinary Ofﬁcer—MAJOR R. C. G. HANCOCK, BSC, MRCVS
Auditors—MESSRS VINEY, PRICE AND GOODYEAR, CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS

Telegrams—WHITEHALL 7177 Telephone—Whitehall 7177

 

 

 

 

RoSoPoCoA—e i

 

 

 

FORM OF BEQUEST FOR NATIONAL WORK

To those benevolent individuals who may wish to become benefactors by Will to this
Society, the following form is respectfully suggested:—

‘1 bequeath to ROYAL SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OP CRUELTY TO ANIMALS, for the
general purposes of that Society, the sum of £, free ofall duties
payable at my death and the receipt of the Treasurer for the time being of the said Society shall
be a sufﬁcient discharge for such legacy.’ (If it should be desired that the legacy should be ex—
pended on some particular phase of the Society’s work, a direction to this eﬁect may be added to the

form of bequest.)

 

CAUTION
By the Act of 7 William IV and IVictoria, cap. 26, all Wills or Codicils must be in Writing signed by the

Testator, and attested by two witnesses in the presence’of the Testator and of each other.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

14 THE ANIMAL WORLD

February 1958

 

THE RSPCA AT WORK

 

DECEMBER 1957
RSPCA INSPECTORS

1,656 Complaints of cruelty investigated.
5 Offenders imprisoned.
110 Offenders ﬁned.
43 Persons guilty of minor acts of cruelty cautioned in writing.
570 Registered cautions were administered by Inspectors.

CLASSIFICATION OF CONVICTIONS

HORSES—Working in an unﬁt state, beating, etc. 5
CATTLE—Conveying and exposing for sale in an unﬁt
state .. . 2
PIGS—Overcrowding, neglecting 5
DOGS—Neglecting, killing in improper manner, injuring
with missile inserting copper ring through
nostril, etc. 20
CATSé-Neglecting, throwing from bedroom window, etc. 8
FOWLS—Neglecting, killing in improper manner 10
DUCKS—Conveying in improper manner 1
RABBITS—Maliciously killing 2
OFFENCES UNDER THE PROTECTION OF BIRDS ACT, 1954:
Being in possession of recently taken birds 13
Conﬁning birds in small cages 34
Selling other than close—ringed specimens bred in
captivity 3
Shooting 4
Using bird lime 1
Using net for the purpose of taking 1
VARIOUS OFFENCES:
Infringement of the Slaughter of Animals Act, 1933 1
Permitting in oﬁences .. . 2
Causing in offences 2
TOTAL NUMBER OF CONVICTIONS 114

 

During DECEMBER 1957, Magistrates, at the request of the
IRSPCA, disqualiﬁed TWELVE persons from owning a dog or
holding a dog licence. Disqualiﬁcations were as follows:

TWO for 6 months: TWO for 3 years: FOUR for 5 years:
TWO for 10 years: ONE for 20 years: ONE for life.
Total number of COMPLAINTS from January Ist 24,942
Total number of CONVICTIONS from January Ist 853
Total number of CAUTIONS from January 1st ’ 8,596

HEADQUARTERS CLINICS

No. of animals handled:
Cats 2,381 Dogs 2,622 Misc. 532 Total 5,535
No. of animals given emergency ﬁrst aid: 1,631

PUTNEY CONVALESCENT WARD

No. of animals handled:
Dogs 54 Cats 7 Misc. 4 Total 65

NIGHT STAFF

No. of calls received: 1,215

No. of animals given emergency ﬁrst aid: 12

N o. of animals treated by Veterinary Surgeon: 278

No. of animals rescued: 7

No. of inspection complaints: 7

Miles covered by ambulance in respect of urgent calls: 2,497

NORTH WALES UNIT

First Aid Cases:

Cats 38 Dogs 63 Misc. 10 Total 111
No. of animals handled by Unit:
Cats 176 Dogs 120 Misc. 18 Total 314

No. of miles covered by Unit: 2,370

DEVON 8L CORNWALL UNIT

First Aid Cases:

Cats 29 Dogs 61 Misc. 5 Total 95
No. of animals handled by Unit:
Cats 105 Dogs 83 Misc. 8 Total 196

No. of miles covered by Unit: 1,755

SOUTH WALES MOBILE UNIT

First Aid Cases:

Cats 78 Dogs 208 Misc. 17 Total 303
No. of animals handled by Unit:
Cats 184 Dogs 250 Misc. 23 Total 457

No. of miles covered by Unit: 1,216

AWARDS

CASES CONSIDERED 24
BRONZE MEDALS . .. 4
CERTIFICATES 22
RECORDS FOR 1956
INSPECTION
COMPLAINTS 26,508
CONVICTIONS 1,029
CAUTIONS .. . 8,979

HEADQUARTERS CLINICS
No. of animals handled: 145,471

NIGHT STAFF
No. of calls: 18,267

 




 

 

 

16 , THE ANIMAL WORLD

February 1958

 

INDIAN J©URNEY

Mr W. A. Sibly, Council Member, writes to the
Chief Secretary:

I am writing this in the middle of one of the
most strenuous undertakings of my life—a pro—
gramme planned for this International Vege’
tarian Congress as it journeys round India. From
the time I landed at Bombay Airport on Novem’
ber 6—-—after a ﬂight of eighteen hours (actual
flying time) by Britannia from London—until this
moment, when I am leaving Delhi for Benares
(and so to further meetings and there at Patna and
Calcutta and Madras), I have had few moments
to myself, and there has been a constant round of
luncheons and dinners (the largest to 600 guests
in the open air), almost all served in the Indian
fashion with many hot and spiced items. Often
I have sighed for the simplicity of bread and
cheese and salad. - .

And then, sometimes at dinners and almost
always at meetings morning and afternoon, there
have been speeches by the score.

But I think that I and others, with the skilful
aid of Mrs Rukmini Devi, an Indian lady who is
an MP, have been able to put in a good word not
only for vegetarianism but also for the monkeys.
The President of India ﬂew to Bombay to in—
augurate our Congress and last night he received
us all in his lovely (Lutyens designed and former
VicevRegal) Palace at Delhi. We spoke to him
about the monkeys. It seems likely that when a
resolution is presented in the Indian Parliament
in December, the matter will be left to a free vote
of the House, but even if the resolution is passed
the Indian Government is committed to monkey
export for some time ahead.

This afternoon we were all received by Mr

Nehru at the Prime Minister’s house. He shook
hands with sixty of us and took us out into the
garden.

*

We are now at Benares, where we had a very
good meeting at the University attended by 500
or so professors and students in a shady grove of
mango trees. Earlier we had voyaged the length
of the temple front steps, funeral pyres, etc., of
the city, and we had breakfast with the Maharaj ah
who is a keen vegetarian, on a balcony of his
palace fortress on the south bank, after which
two of his caparisoned elephants took us for
rides.

*

Posted in Calcutta where I am about to have
breakfast with the Woman Governor of West
Bengal.

 

ANIMAL WELFARE IN BRITISH
GUIANA

50th Anniversary

His Excellency the Governor of British Guiana,
Sir Patrick Renison, KCMG, headed a congre»
gation in the Cathedral Church of St George
‘in praising the work of the British Guiana
Branch of the RSPCA, praying that, with God’s
blessings upon it, it may grow from strength to
strength’.

The Governor, accompanied by Lady Renison,
was attending a Thanksgiving Service to mark
fifty years of humane work in the Colony. (The
British Guiana Society, for many years affiliated
to the RSPCA, became a Branch in recent years.)

The Very Rev R. R. Sargison, Dean of George,
town, preached the sermon.

 

RSPCA Achievements

For some time, Senior Inspector Checksfield was
concerned at the conditions under which sheep,
pigs and calves were kept at Lockmeadow
Market, Maidstone. These animals were crowded
into pens, where they received rough handling
from the prospective buyers, which often resulted
in severe bruising, especially in the case of calves.

After repeated representations to the Market
Committee, the Inspector succeeded in remedy;
ing the evil and a notice has now been erected
over the pens, requesting buyers not to enter
while a sale is in progress.

>X<

Senior Inspector Nurse reports that he has
persuaded local ofﬁcials to provide three water
troughs at Henley’in~Arden Railway Station for
the use of the cattle arriving there each week from
Irish ports.

Thanks to the efforts of Inspector Locke,
various improvements have been carried out at
East Grinstead Market, which will mean greater
comfort for the animals passing through it.
Shelter is now provided for all stock and all pens
will be furnished with straw. It only remains for
children to be banned from the Market prev
cincts, but the Inspector is hopeful that this
reform, too, will shortly be put into effect.

*

Senior Inspector Temple is well satisfied with
the new Cattle Market at Reading, on which he
reports as follows:

‘There is a large separate coveredvin building
for the sale of young calves and in this building
are small pens which hold seven calves coma
fortably and straw is provided for their coma

fort; each calf is sold separately in a small ring;

 




18 THE ANIMAL WORLD February1958

 

 

THE SAME
Kl TTEN—
left,

CO WED

3
Mi

below, .‘

CONFIDENT

 

Photographs by courtesy of the Chief Constable of Bedfordshire

WEIGHT INCREASED OVER A THIRD IN SEVEN DAYS

RSPCA Inspector D. L. Baker took this kitten to a veterinary
surgeon who reported that it was suffering from severe
malnutrition, was undeveloped and the tail was extensively
bruised. The veterinary surgeon considered the kitten so
stunted that it had never been properly fed. The injuries,
burning of the whiskers, etc., were, in his View, undoubtedly
of recent origin. In the seven days he kept the kitten the
weight increased from 2 lbs. 4 ozs. to 3 lbs. I oz.

A man and his wife were brought before Bedford magis-
trates by the RSPCA charged with causing unnecessary
suffering to the kitten by failing to give necessary care and
attention. They were each fined IDs. and ordered to pay
a total of £3 3s. costs.

The kitten is now happy, as can be seen in the second
picture, which was taken after it was placed in a good
home by the RSPCA. (3.2825)

 




 

 

February 1958

 

20 , - THE ANIMAL WORLD

 

Kim was to
have been
destroyed as a
stray, but was
adopted by
Miss R. M. E.
Cobb of Esher
and grew into
this handsome
cat

 

In this article, reprinted with acknowledgments from
Winslow Parish Church Magazine, Bishop Heywood
gives his own views, which naturally merit the
attention of all animal lovers.

CHRISTIANITY AND ANIMALS

It is rather remarkable that, in the Kalendar at the
beginning of the Prayer Book, there is no men,
tion of one who has been spoken of as ‘the most
beloved of Saints’—St Francis. This defect has
been remedied in the Revised Prayer Book, where
——in the Kalendar—opposite October 4, come
the words ‘Francis of Assisi, 1226’ (his date).
Much could be written about St Francis, but
here I would only refer to his love of animals and
birds. Thus he used to speak of ‘brother ass’, and
of ‘his little sisters, the birds’, to whom he is
sometimes pictured as preaching, and the birds
as attentively listening.

We Christian folk are told, in the Collect for
All Saints’ Day, that we ought to ‘follow Thy
blessed Saints in all virtuous and godly living’.
But far too many people—sometimesChristian
people—fail to follow St Francis in his care for
animals and other sentient creatures. Here is one
very bad example, recorded in a largely circulated
daily paper. The occasion was that of a stagahunt;
and the incident is thus described: ‘The terriﬁed
stag ran for its life—and lost. In its desperate
attempts to escape the hounds, it leapt into a rain—
swollen river. There it was shot, as it turned at
bay—to face the hound pack.’ (It is not clear
whether it was killed by the shot.) Then the body
of the stag was hauled out of the river, and ‘its
throat was cut. It was then disembowelled, and
its liver was cut up and distributed to hunt sup—
porters. Women wrapped the liver in handker—
chiefs to take home.’ It is not surprising that some

of the spectators of this disgusting scene ‘booed
and jeered loudly’.

An extreme case certainly, but this is not the
only form of ‘sport’ in which cruelty is involved.

And other examples of cruelty are not far to
seek. To keep wild birds in a cage is like keeping
a child in a cupboard. As William Blake wrote:

"A robin redbreast, in a cage,
Puts all heaven in a rage’.

Opinions differ abouts zoos—some of which
(for example, Whipsnade) are so much better
than others—but in a travelling circus animals
sometimes have a very wretched life. I have my;
self seen a bear, pacing up and down in a cage in
which it had hardly room to turn round.

Again, of performing animals, the late Dr Joad
wrote: ‘The practice of causing animals to do
tricks in public is a device for making human
beings behave like beasts, in order that they may
induce beasts to behave like imbeciles.’ Forcibly
put; but many people share Dr Joad’s feelings,
though they might not express them in his terms.

On the hateful subject of Vivisection, it is not
possible to write fairly without writing at length,
and occupying much more space than is available
in the Magazine. But I can say that when, some
years ago, I read the Report of the Royal Coma
mission on the subject, I read what has haunted
my memory ever since. And always I have felt
that no research student, who claims to be a
Christian, should be willing to perform any
experimental operation on any dog (for ex—
ample) that he would not perform on his own dog.
If that seems a hard saying, who ever thought
that Christianity was. an easy religion?

Moreover I have in my study at home the
names and verdicts of numbers of scientists and
doctors who are convinced Anti—Vivisectionists.

But I must try to be constructive and not only
critical. And I can only write from the standpoint
of one who accepts the Christian Faith.

In the understanding of Christian discipleship
there is a certain blunder which our Lord was
constantly at pains to correct. One example (out
of several) was illustrated when St Peter said——
‘How oft shall my brother sin against me and
I forgive him? Till seven times?’ Apparently St
Peter thought that he might forgive seven times,
and then stop forgiving. But when our Lord said
Until seventy times seven’, He did not mean
‘490 times’———but rather meant that St Peter
should always be ready to forgive. The principle
implied is that the disciples of Christ should
not do certain things only so often; but should
be of a certain character—which character should
always express itself in the right way. The point
could be illustrated by considering the difference
between sending a telegram and broadcasting.
If you send a telegram, you send it to one place
and no more. If you broadcast, your voice goes

 

 

4, it. at

4 “A r




 

22. THE ANIMAL WORLD

February 1958

 

 

PUPS or THE
HEBRIDES

by

TOM WEIR

 

 

- Reprinted from Scottish Field, by courtesy
of the Editor and of TOM WEIR.

 

 

THE GREAT GREY SEAL OF THE ATLAN’
TIC IS THE RAREST SEAL IN THE WORLD;
BUT MANY ARE BORN ON THE WINTRY
ROCKS OF THE HEBRIDES, WHERE WITHv
IN LIVING MEMORY THEY BECAME AL,
MOST EXTINCT, SAYS TOM WEIR

Born on the wintry rocks of the Hebrides, these
seal pups weigh 30 lbs. at birth, but a fortnight
later they are so blown up with fat they weigh
three times that amount on a diet of mother’s
milk which is ten times richer than cow’s milk.
But Utopia for the pup as it sleeps and drinks
lasts only two weeks, for near the end of that
short-period its mother is beginning to take more
interest in the bull lying in wait for it than in the
90 lbs. of blubber that is its pup. In short, the pup
is deserted at a fortnight, and it then wears a woe—
begone look as well as a brand new coat.

The Great Grey Seal of the Atlantic and very
slightly of the North Sea is the rarest seal in the
world, and in living memory became almost er
tinct because of raids by Hebrideans and others
who valued its skin for boots and its blubber for
oil. It was saved the fate of the dodo'by two lucky
accidents; the introduction of rubber wellington
boots and parafﬁn oil for lamps. Now it is prOv
tected on its breeding rocks and it is estimated

that there are 10,000 Great Grey Seals in the
world. Today the seals are their own worst ene—
mies, for they are great ﬁghters, especially the
bulls whose object in life is to serve a big harem
of cows and defend it.

The fresh bull has no desire to eat during the
excitement of breeding, so he becomes weaker
and less able to ﬁght off other bulls wishing to
mate with members of his harem. Fresh from the
water the bull weighs quarter of a ton and often
more, but in six weeks with the cows he will have
lost over 200 lbs. and be covered in scars from
many ﬁghts. He may even have lost an eye since
this is a vulnerable spot aimed at in ﬁghts.

So the bewildered youngsters must learn to ﬁsh
and dive for themselves, and run the gauntlet
of bites should they get too near an anxious
mother with a helpless calf. Nor is diving an easy
job for them, because they are so fat they simply
shoot to the surface like corks every time they
try to get down to the bottom of the rock pools

' to ﬁsh for mussels or crabs.

No one knows the movements of the seals once
they leave their breeding rocks, but scientists have
found that some go to Norway, and it is hoped
by ﬁxing numbered rings to the calves it may be
possible to. discover where they go when they
disappear every New Year with brand new coats to
launch themselves into the great unknown.

 

Reprinted from 'WOMAN with acknowledgments

‘ OPEN ' HOUSE ’
‘ POR ANIMALS

Swans, snakes and owls, Kathleen looks after
them all—for her husband’s sake

Kathleen Coomber shrieked as she spotted
her husband creeping upstairs to the bath—
room with an oil—drenched swan tucked
tightly under his arm.

‘Oh, no, Peter. Not in the bath!’ she cried.
‘I’ll never be able to get it clean again.’

The swan, asswans do, looked offended, and
Peter pleaded that it would make ‘only a little
mess’. But, imagining those powerful wings splay—

ing soapsuds and oil over her clean walls and
curtains, Kathleen ordered the swan out—to
Peter’s animal clinic.

This was the only time in four years that slim,
brownahaired Kathleen, wife of an RSCPA in,
spector, protested over any of her unusual house
guests.

When she married Peter thirteen years ago,

~ he was a textile traveller. It was the only job he

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

24 THE ANIMAL W,ORLD

February 1958

 

 

BRANCH NEWS

(Where a function is organized for the raising of funds, we
give, wherever possible, the place where held, the type of
function, and the name of the organizer or organizers, followed
by the sum raised. The letters AM indicate annual meeting;
they are followed by the word branch, or the name of the
auxiliary, and an indication, where possible, of the person
presiding and of oﬁicials presenting reports; other information
is given as necessary.)

This lamb, seen
in the arms of
Mrs D. G. Locke,
wife of Inspec-
tor Locke, was
left lying in great
pain from a bad-
ly cut leg in the
middle of a road
in the Ashdown
Forest area after
it had been run
over by a car.
No one had told
the police and it
was only by
chance that the
Inspector found
the lamb in time
to save it bleed-
ing to death
Bolton Coffee morning and bring and buy sale, Lady
Hulton (branch hon sec), £60 6s.

Bromley and District (Kent) West Wickham, bazaar, Mrs
Syer (aux hon sec), £23.

Petts Wood, bring and buy sale, Mrs Grimshaw (aux
hon sec), £232 6s. 2d.

Burton-on-Trent AM (Branch). Mrs W. N. Payton (branch
chairman) took the chair. Speaker was Mr K. S. Tolhurst.

Rolleston, Christmas fair, Mrs H. Archer (aux hon sec),
£95. Bring and buy sale, Mrs Curtois (Donisthorpe aux hon
sec) £18. .

Carmarthenshire Ferryside, whist drive, Mrs King (aux
hon sec), £11. ‘

Carmarthen, children’s pet show, Mr Wynford Davies
(deputy chairman), £22 3s. 4d. Jumble sale, Mrs Jack Jones
(branch member), £20.

Croydon Borough Addiscombe Christmas fair, Miss Whyte
(branch hon sec), £40 proﬁt. ‘
Cumberland—North and East Abbey Town, whist drive,
Miss Beckton (aux hon sec), £11 15s. 9d.

Carlisle, coffee morning, £22 2s. 8d.

Dorset—North Blandford, jumble sale, Mrs B. W. Abra—
hams, £14 13s. 9d. ‘ ,

Sherborne, various efforts, Mrs V. Westlake (aux hon
sec), £108 1s.
Durham and District Durham, bring and buy sale, Miss
G. S. Wilkinson and committee. Mrs Robin Bartram opened
the sale, and those present included: Alderman W. A. H.
Shepherd (Mayor of Durham), Lord Gort (president) and
Lady Gort, Lady Bradford (chairman), and Miss N.
McAuslan (Durham—Hartlepools and District hon sec).
Essex—North-West Whist drives, Miss Everitt (hon
clinic sec), £5 5s. for clinic funds.
Hampshire—Southampton and District Southampton, bring
and buy sale, Mrs R. N. Statham (branch hon sec) at her
home, £32. ,_
Hull and East Riding Hull, Christmas sale, Hull High
School Old Girls’ Association, Mrs M. Frank (president of
this Association), opened by Miss Gwen Berryman (Mrs
Archer of the Archers), approximately £200.
Kent—Ashford and District Christmas draw, £260.
Kent—Canterbury and District Jumble sale, Miss E. K.
Miller (Whitstable aux hon sec), £44 2s. 6d.

Canterbury, Christmas bazaar, Mrs Dance (branch hon

 

‘35. «$35

Photograph by courtesy of the News of the World

,Mrs L. Gray (branch hon sec), £77.

 

‘7‘ A, L.“ “W-V‘WA _ LL .

sec), opened by the Mayor of Canterbury (Ald W. S. Bean)
£113. Stall at United Charities Fair, Mrs Dance (branch
hon sec), nearly £20. .
Kent—Dover and District Jumble sale, Mrs Price (branch
hon sec), £17. . _
Kent—Folkestone and District Furry Friends Fair, Mrs
Grace (branch hon sec), £200.
Kent—Isle of Thanet Jumble sale, Mrs Crook (Broadstairs
aux hon sec), £18. Jumble sale, Mrs Knapman (Westgate
aux hon sec), £15 10s.
Kent—North-West Dartford, Christmas bazaar, Mrs E.
Bradshaw (aux hon sec), opened by Mr Sydney Irving, MP.
Those present included Councillor E. C. G. Lanyon, the
Deputy Mayor of Dartford, Councillor Arthur Warren and
Mrs Warren, and Mr W. S. Oliver (chairman of Dartford
aux), £90 proﬁt.
Leeds Bring and buy sale, Mrs Rogers (Moortown and
Roundhay aux hon sec), £50.

Horsforth, bring and buy sale, Mrs G. Hume (aux hon
sec), £30.
Macclesﬁeld, South-East Cheshire and Buxton Maccles-
ﬁeld, various events, Miss Yates (committee member),
£138 17s .6d.
Merthyr Tydﬁl and District AM (Branch). The Mayor pre-
sided. The speaker was Mr P. D. Turner.
Middlesex—North-West Sale, Mrs Bartholomew (branch
hon sec) and Miss Hine (hon treasurer), £51.
Norfolk—Mid and Norwich Christmas draw, Mrs M.
Butler (Diss and District aux. co hon sec), £59 95. 3d.
Rugby Home-made cake stall, Mrs M. J. Prickett (Admin
hon sec), £7 14s. 9d.
Sheffield Christmas market, Mrs G. Collier (hon sec),
£74 4s. 7d.
ShrOpshire Oswestry, bring and buy sale, Mrs Livesey
(aux hon sec), £43 5s.
Staﬁ‘ordshire—North Chell, jumble sale, Mrs Berry (branch
hon sec), £14 4s. 10d.
Surrey—Woking and District Windlesham, stall, Miss
Chamberlain (aux hon sec), £15 2s. 9d.
Sussex—West and Brighton Copthorne, tenth annual sale
and raffle, Mrs Mitchell (aux hon sec) and Mrs E. M.
Hewett, £100.
Torquay and South-East Devon Christmas fair, Mrs M. V.
Dodds (branch hon sec), £67. Christmas draw and whist
drive, Mrs Milford (Deputy Mayoress of Torquay), £116
for clinic funds.
Wiltshire—North Draw, branch, proﬁt 0f £199 1s. .
Yorkshire—Bridlington, Malton and District Christmas fair,

 

        

Photograph

   

......... N.“ '
by courtesy of Mr G. Tate, Dorkmg

WINNER
The Great Dane won the cup at the RSPCA dog show,
Dorking

 

 




 

 

 

~ \\
i
; SAFE. ~ ,
. sum: amen XE

CAPTIVE BOLT PISTOL
FOR ALL ANIMALS

A
{

ACCLES AND SHELVOKE LTD ' BIRMINGHAM ° 6 ' ENGLAND
5456

FLAG DAY
GOODS

PLASTIC BADGES

LIST ON APPLICATION

THE UNIVERSAL BUTTON CO. LTD.

1-9 Birkheck Street, Bethnal Green, LONDON, E.2
Telephone: BIShopsgate 5750 Telegrams: ‘Unihutoo Edo’

 

WOOL WANTED

Odd balls of wool suitable for making up into
squares for dog blankets are needed urgently. Kind
folk wishing to help in this by giving wool are asked
to send it to Mrs Riseley, c/o RSPCA, l05 Jermyn
Street, London, SWI.

Mrs Riseley asks donors to make sure that the
moth has not got into the wool if they have had it
at home for some time.

Parcels will be acknowledged."

 

 

 

 

All inquiries to

Telephone: HOP 2476 (3 lines)
Telegrams: HOBSON, SEDIST, LONDON

 

@WEE‘ORMS

HOBSON & SONS
(LONDON) LTD

154-164 TOOLEY STREET
LONDON BRIDGE S.E.l

Manufacturers of '

UNIFORM CLOTHING
CAPS HELMETS LEATHER
BELTS POUCHES etc. etc

Gold and Silver Laces
Embroideries of every
description for ALL
UNIFORMED SERVICES

PATTERNS OF CLOTH
and ESTIMATES
will be forwarded free of charge

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Printed by Shenval Press, Simson Shand Ltd, London, Hertford and Harlow, and
published by John Hall for the RSPCA at 105 Jermyn Street, London, SW1

 

 

 




