VOLUME

LI N05

lncorporat

i

ng ”Elle Winged Messenge

l‘

9

l
H
H
0
J
J
I
D
I
V
1 L
0 w H
a m “an
N m m
0 H
J
l
H
a
H
S
.d
3
V

Photo by courtesy of Ken Grant, Ludlow

 

 

MAY 1956

 




 

 

 

ANIMALTH

EWORLD

THE OFFICIAL MAGAZINE OF THE RSPCA

Vol LI No 5 New Series

MAY 1956

PRICE THREEPENCE

4s. 6d. per annum. Post Paid

CRUELTY TO LANGUAGE

When we hear from the lips of the exhibitor of
performing animals the familiar cry of ‘All done
by kindness’ our hearts should be wrung—~not
only for the suffering of the animal actors whose
misery he exploits but for the abuse of our mother
tongue.

Never was a word so debased as kindness used
in this context.

‘All done by kindness!’ The smooth phrase
ﬂies in the face of all our instincts and of every
shred of unbiased evidence.

So cynical have those who use the phrase
become that they will employ it and similar
expressions alongside a dozen of their own
statements giving a deﬁnite lie to the soporiﬁc
catch—phrase. .

Readers will recall that Alfred Court, whose
book Wild Circus Animals (Burke Publishing Co.
Ltd., 15s.) we reviewed last year, used such
methods as these in his efforts at mastering the
wild animals he trained; he ﬂung a heavy stool
with all his might at a bear’s head, caught the
animal on the head, and knocked it out.

Despite numerous other remarks in the same
strain, Court was described in the book blurb as
having, in Mexico, ‘stumbled upon his real
interest: a love of the savage, majestic beasts of
the jungle’.

ARCTIC SPELL

The main sufferers reported by RSPCA Inspectors
during the recent brief Arctic spell appeared to
have been birds.

 

To those of us who have respect for the English
tongue, the actions he describes are hardly evi—
dence of love.

Court is not alone in seeking to give language
a special meaning in his own mouth. Elsewhere
in these pages we review another book from
inside the world of trained performing animals.

In this ‘Elephant Tramp’ we are treated to
such frank remarks as: ‘All well—trained per—
forming elephants are well—scarred elephants.’

We should imagine that anyone who could
write so frankly would be constrained to admit
that the training and exhibition of animals for
entertainment purposes is an odious business,

but we" should be reckoning“Withoutf'COnsidefrinfg'

the privilege enjoyed by this fraternity of having
a special dispensation to do what it likes not
only with animals, but with language, too.

The book is about ‘Slim’ Lewis, and we are
told, as usual, that he ‘continued to love ele—
phants’. '

To all such men we shall appeal in vain for
the proper treatment of language, but we shall
know how much value may be placed on their
aSsurances that ‘It’s all done by kindness!’

EDITOR

Inspector Hyde at Ipswich accepted an offer
made by the RAF at Martlesham of a helicopter
in which he might reconnoitre, as birds had been
seen in difﬁculties by airmen on training ﬂights.
Inspector Watts at Merthyr Tydfil advised farmers
to remove sheep to lower ground and to see
they were fed. Ponies in the same place——Brecon
Beacons—received attention daily, and where the
Inspector was unable to locate owners he saw
personally to the feeding. ,

Gulls sleeping on the surface of the water at
Alexandra Dock, Grimsby, were frozen into the
ice and Senior Inspector Grant had a tug standing
by to break the ice and free them. Luckily the
thaw released them before the tug was needed.
The Inspector organized the feeding of sea birds

whom he found in distress.
[More echoes of the Arctic spell overleaf

 

Inspector Hamilton is seen feeding ponies during the
wintry weather in February on Brecon Beacons

 




 

 

 

May 1956

’THEANIMALWORLD 51.

 

House of Lords discusses

CRUELTY IN THE TRAINING AND
USE OF PERFORMING ANIMALS

 

Though delayed through pressure on space, this
report was considered too valuable to pass un'
published in ANIMAL WORLD

 

 

 

A discussion introduced in the House of Lords
by Lord Strabolgi showed the widespread sup
port of Peers for the Views of the RSPCA on the
subject of performing animals.

Lord Strabolgi called attention to the
cruelty involved in the training and use of
performing animals for exhibition purposes;
to the general .undesirability of such per—
formances; and to their bad effect on chil—
dren’s education.

Lord Strabolgi moved for papers, but his
motion was negatived by 18 votes to 12, despite
the preponderance of support among those para
ticipating in the discussion.

An amendment to Lord Strabolgi’s motion was
moved by the Earl of Listowel but was, by leave,
withdrawn. This amendment asked for an in—
quiry into the training and exhibition of per;
forming animals and into the present statutory
provisions and administrative arrangements for
their protection.

‘From their Natural Haunts’

Lord Merthyr, . Chairman of the RSPCA
Council, said that he was satisﬁed a great deal
of cruelty goes on in the training of wild
animals. It seemed to him to be barbarous to
bring wild animals from their native haunts
overseas to this country, put them in cages
and parade them round the c0untry to take
part in circuses.

In the opinion of the Bishop of Norwich, the
question of cruelty was not the reigning consider;
ation. It was quite revolting that wild animals
should be taken from their natural abode and
kept in captivity in order to be exhibited and
made to do unnatural things for the entertainv
ment of men and women. When they added ‘for
the entertainment of children’, they were making
the whole thing more horrible and more entirely
unjustiﬁed.

Lord Ailwyn said there might be arguments in
favour of the retention of zoos, although he perv
sonally repudiated them, but nothing could be
said in favour of those diabolical institutions
known as travelling menageries. Such exhibitions

should be prohibited by law. .

Spirit Broken
_ The real trouble (said the Earl Of Huntingdonl
lay in capturing these animals and in their initial
training. '

He had been told by an animal trainer that in
order to train a savage animal such as a tiger or
an elephant it was necessary to break its spirit,
and until its spirit could be broken, nothing
could be done with it. a

Lord Gifford, who said he was a director of a
company that sold tickets for circuses during the
Christmas season, believed it was impossible for
cruelty to be used in their training—otherwise
there would be prosecutions.

Government View

For the Government, Lord Mancroft, Under;
Secretary, Home Ofﬁce, expressed the View it
was perfectly clear that some animals enjoyed
performing.

The present law, he said, was working tolerably
well. Police and the ofﬁcers of local authorities
had the right to inspect circus premises under the
Performing Animals Regulation Act, 1925. The
reason why RSPCA Inspectors were not allowed
this privilege was because the circus authorities
claimed that the number of people allowed this
right‘was quite enough. ,

Lord Mancroft said: ‘I want to emphasize
that I am not pretending for one moment that
cruelty does not exist. I am convinced in my
own mind that it does. As we all know, there
are black sheep in every family.’

 

PEDIGREES AND PETS

An excellent new book by Rose Tenent on
Pedigree Cats (Crosby Lockwood and Son Ltd
at 163.) will appeal to both the professional
breeder of cats and the amateur who keeps one
or more pedigree cats.

Miss Tenent devotes chapters on Longahaired
Breeds, British Shortvhairs, the Manx Cat,
Siamese, Breeding and Exhibiting, etc., and
gives advice on what to do when illness comes.
The book is copiously illustrated by well—known
photographers, although it is noticed that in
some of the illustrations cats are shown with
collars or ribbons around their necks. This is a
practice the RSPCA deplores. It can lead to
serious accidents. The View of the RSPCA is that
if for identification purposes a collar is used, it
should be of elastic, half—inch wide. This will
give if the cat should be caught in trees or other
obstacles.

COVER PICTURE

Shown on the cover is a little Auk, an Arctic sea
bird, who, outside the breeding season, usually
stays at sea in the neighbourhood of the pack ice
though he visits lower latitudes. The bird was
found seventy miles inland at Lulew, Shrop—
shire. Inspector Jones cared for this rare bird
visitor and later released him on the cOaSt.

 




  
 
 
  
   
 
  
  
 
 
     
     
    
     
  
 
 
  
    
   

Founded 1824

Telegrams—WHITEHALL 7 177

E'SIMPL
SAFE.

     
   

   

THE EARL OF SHAFTESBURY, KP, PC

Hon Treasurer—LT-COL J. C. LOCKWOOD, J.P., TD
Deputy Hon Treasurer—HARRY WHITE, ESQ. FCA
Hon Medical Ofﬁcer—A. N. CRAWFORD, ESQ, FRCSI
Bankers—MESSRS COUTTS AND CO, STRAND, LONDON

, SURE EFCASHXQ

ICCLIS AND SNELVOKE [ID ' BIRMINGHAM ' 6 ' ENGLAND

ROYAL SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS

Headquarters: 105 Jermyn Street, London, S.W.I

PATRONS

HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN
HER MAJESTY QUEEN ELIZABETH, THE QUEEN MOTHER

HER ROYAL HIGHNESS PRINCESS ARTHUR OF CONNAUGHT

PRESIDENT
PROFESSOR GILBERT MURRAY, OM, MA, DLItt, DCL, FBA

VICE-PRESIDENTS
SIR MALCOLM SARGENT, HON LLD, DMUS, FRCM, FRSA

 

THE COUNCIL

Chairman: THE RT HON LORD MERTHYR, DL, TD, JP
Vice-Chairman: *MRS WALLIS POWER, JP

 

 

* Denotes Branch Representative

 

OFFICE BEARERS APPOINTED BY THE COUNCIL

Legal Secretary—J. HALL, ESQ

Auditors—MESSRS VINEY, PRICE AND GOODYEAR, CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS

HER ROYAL HIGHNESS PRINCESS ALICE COUNTESS OF ATHLONE

COLONEL R. M. POWELL, DSO

*ALLIBERT, MRS FREEMAN, PETER, ESQ, MP *PRITCHARD, MRS D.
"ALSOP, ALDERMAN A. J., FRCA, FCIS, JP GARDNER, HON. JULIET *RATTRAY, R. F., ESQ, MA, PHJ)
ANDERSON, L. K., ESQ., MRCVS, DVM. ' *HARVEY, MRS J. W., MA RISELEY, MRS R. C.
BERTIE OF THAME, THE RT HON THE VISCOUNTESS HOBHOUSE, J. S. ESQ. *RIECK, H. H., ESQ
BRANSOM, MISS L. G., FRSA HOGG, S. R., ESQ, DSO, MC SHAFTESBURY, THEIRT HON THE COLIN ”553 OF
BYWATER, H. E., ESQ., MRCVS HOWELL, BASIL P., ESQ, MBE SIBLY, W. A., ESQ, MA, JP
CONNICK, REV. WILLIAM, BD, FR MET 5. HON CF *HUNTER, MISS SNELL, ALDERMAN THE REV FRI-.III-iNIIARY L. J. B.,
*COOPER, ALDERMAN J. D., JP LEE, MRS E. M. MBE, TD, HON.CF (HEREFORD)
DORCHESTER, LT-COL THE RT HON LORD, OBE, JP LOCKWOOD, LT-COL J. C., JP, TD *TAIT, MRS, MA
*DOWDELL, MRS M. R. LONGMAN, MRS W. *WALFORD, MRS DESBOROUGH
ESTCOURT-OSWALD, MISS AGNES, MB (LOND), DPH MACNAGHTEN, MAJOR A. *WHITE, HARRY, ESQ, FCA
(CANTAB), DOMS MOORE, LT-COL SIR THOMAS, CBE, MP WILLERT, SIR ARTHUR, KBE
*EVANS, MRS DAVID, BA POULETT, THE RT HON THE EARL *WINCHESTER. F. J., ESQ, FCIS, FSS
POWELL, COL R. M., DSO

Chief Secretary—ARTHUR w. MOSS, ESQ, MBE, AC‘IS
ASSIstant Secretary—D. A. L. CAMM, ESQ, BA

Chief Veterinary Ofﬁcer—MAJOR R. C. G. HANCOCK, BSC, MRCVS

Telephone—Whitehall 7177

 

 

 

................... ;‘ TEMPLE COX

CAPTIVE BOLT PISTOL
FOR ALL ANIMALS

 

 

 

BOLT SLAUGHTERING
GUNS

Specially recommended and used by the RSPCA

__ _ THREE MODELS—ALL SILENT IN
I ——"’——“ ACTION

‘UNIVERSAL' for all animals
‘SMALLS’ for all small animals
‘MARK 6’ for all animals. Designed for heavy

use in large Abattoirs and Freezing Works

 

TEMPLE COX DEVELOPMENT CO. LTD
HIGH STREET, BROMLEY, KENT

CAPTIVE

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

5456 I

 

 




 

May 1956

THEANIMALWORLD 55

 

 

OVERSEAS NEWS '

SEYCHELLES
In summarizing the ﬁrst report issued by the
RSPCA Seychelles Branch, tribute is paid to
Brigadier A. H. R. Dodd, CIE, who died in
November last. Brigadier Dodd was largely
responsible for the formation of the branch in

1954.
TURTLES

The Branch Committee had considered'many
complaints of suffering caused to turtles during
transport to Mane by ship and during their some;
times long sojourn in the poor conditions pre—
vailing at the Turtle Pool. A new pool was advov
cated by the Committee, but as the Government
could not put this in hand at present because of
the cost, the Branch suggested that these ima
provements (involving little cost) might be made
temporarily: existing inlets for fresh sea water, at
present too high and too small, might be lowered
and enlarged, improving the present rather stag;
nant conditions of the pool; a regular supply of
the weed eaten by turtles could be provided.

At present there are many complaints that
the turtles arrive in the market in such
emaciated condition that their value is con—
siderably reduced.

The branch report comments: Actually, it is
debatable whether turtles do feed at all during
their sojourn in Seychelles waters, where they
come to breed, and their condition may be due
to the prolonged strain of their capture, their
transport, and the lengthy time awaiting disposal.
A regular supply of food might improve their
condition. A swifter despatch would certainly
shorten their sufferings.

ELEPHANT ORDEAL
Extract from letter dated March 1, 1956, from Mrs
W. Slater, RSPCA Tanganyika Division Organizing
Secretary. '
During the recent devastating ﬂoods in the
Southern Province, not one animal was lost.
Although thousands of miles were ﬂooded, and
waters reached the tops of the native huts in the

villages, the animals were carried on to the hut
tops by the owners. We are a solid band in the
Southern Province. The Provincial Commissioner
wrote to me and told me how wonderful it was.

Another item of much interest to us reached
me as I left hospital. One of our African members,
also in the Southern Province, found a tiny baby
elephant, about three weeks old, alone and de
serted in the bush, miles from anywhere. The
African was terribly worried as to what he should
do, so he thought if he could get the baby to the
Native Authority Farm, sixty—six miles away at
Masasi, it would be cared for there. He started
out to walk, so slowly, and sometimes carried
the little elephant, and rested at intervals,
through miles of lonely deserted bush. He
took four days on the journey, and ﬁnally
arrived at the Farm. _. ‘51"

The baby seemed to recover after arrival, but
unfortunately died a day later—it being imr
possible to rear so young an elephant unleSs it
had been weaned. The African wept oceans of
tears.

However, the District Commissioner and every,
body was so impressed with the kindness of the
African towards an animal that the Game Warden
was informed of the story, and also a letter came
to me asking whether the RSCPA would like to
recognize the act. I at once wrote, and sent oneof
the little medals for Kindness, and a certificate of
merit, and also asked the DC to reward the
African with a little present of money.

f I’m so happy that all our teaching is bearing
ruit. . 1

The RSPCA, astonished at the distance quoted,
asked Mrs Slater to conﬁrm it. Her answer readsf

No, there is no mistake. Sixtyasix miles is quite
correct. That, after all, is not considered a very great
distance here. Many people have to walk hundreds of
miles in the normal course of things. There are no
railways, or even roads, in many vast areas, so walk;
ing is the only way. To walk sixty’six miles hampered ,
by a baby elephant so young that it could only walk
a small distance at a time, is deﬁnitely a ﬁne instance
of courage, kindness and endurance.

CARRY ON

Though one RSPCA school lecturer had been
repeatedly warned that her address at one
school should be restricted to ten minutes
only, when the time came she was watching
the clock and very conscious of the race be—
tween her material and the ﬂying minutes.
When the Headmaster leaned forward and
Whispered ‘Carry on, it’s all most interesting
and going down very well’ she continued for
another twenty minutes.

, Since the last report 207 lectures were given in
schools in Wiltshire, Devon, Glamorgan, Bed;
fordshire, Northamptonshire', Hayes (Kent), Tana
dridge, Beckenham, Maidstone area, Bexley area,
Norwich and the London area. A Borstal Institu—
tion Young Farmers’ Club in Maidstone, a chil’
dren’s meeting at a Tottenham Library and the
Porthcawl Animal Defenders were also addressed.

Fifty’three new Animal Defender groups were
formed; 580 children joined the Headquarters
Group. ‘

 




 

52 THEANIMALWORLD

May 1956

 

A LIFE IN CHAINS

The blurb of Elephant Tramp by George Lewis
and Byron Fish (Peter Davies, 15s.) tells us that
Lewis ‘continued to love elephants’.

The story is that of Lewis, an elephant keeper,
and this review will give only one or two instances
of the treatment meted out by him and others to
elephants in their charge. The book abounds in
such instances. And yet, despite these disclosures,
he can bid a sentimental goodbye to ‘Tusko’, one
of his wards, in these words: ‘ May we meet again
some day, where the grass is tall and green, and
there are no chainsl’

We should be more impressed by this lastvpage
repentance—if such it is—had we not realized

that it was ‘Slim’ Lewis and his kind who had

kept these captive elephants in chains.

Once again, a book written from the inside
explodes the myth that kindness is used in the
training of wild animals for entertainment
purposes. ‘All well—trained performing ele—
phants (says this author, on page 209) are
well—scarred elephants, from being guided by
the hook.’ Again, he says (page 208): ‘Many
people have the impression that elephants
enjoy performing, but they don’t.’

America

George Lewis (who tells his story to Byron Fish)
was an ‘Elephant Tramp’ in America, which, we
must keep in mind, has humane traditions coma
parable with our own.

The RSPCA has always stressed the relationship
between the zoo and the circus (the circus, that is,
as a place for performing animals). That they
represent two aspects of one problem is shown

in this passage (page 7): ‘The worst—dispositioned
elephants in captivity generally are found in zoos.
It always has been the habit of circus owners to
get rid of animals they can’t manage themselves.
As a result many males have ﬁnally gone to zoos,
only to be killed there eventually.’ The zoo
owner will exploit the ‘reputation’ made by the
elephant in his circus tour, as a means of ‘draw—
ing’ crowds to pay the zoo entrance fee.

Vengeance?

The book has vivid descriptions of attacks made
on keepers by incensed elephants.Whether these
attacks were from motives of vengeance, no one
can say, but the chained and frustrated animals
seemed to have plenty of excuse for going berserk.

‘The moment I got loose (says the author,
page 36), I looked for something with which to
punish her. I had to show her who was boss. The
only thing I could ﬁnd was a tool used to clean the
animal cages. It was a scraper made of a square
piece of metal attached to a long, slender handle.
I swung at Lucy (an elephant) and hit her between
the eyes. The scraper bent over the top of her
head like a rubber toy. . . . I searched the tent for
something heavier to work on her with, and
found a steel automobile axle used as a tent stake.
After that, we had our little argument.’

In a sentence, he demolishes every prev
tence of the ‘all-done—by—kindness’ school,
when he writes (page 37): ‘But you can’t
explain the situation to an animal. It must
experience the discomfort to know what
attends disapproved action.’

THE CAT’S KITTENS
By Mrs L. R. Saunders

Reprinted from ‘Woman’, with acknowledgments

When I lived in the country, my nearest neigh’
bours were a couple who lived with their eight
unruly children in a small cottage.

One day my labrador gave birth to ten pupv
pies. Over in the cottage my neighbours’ little
cat produced six kittens.

But while my dog was in a warm dry shed,
kept quiet and clean and properly fed, the mother
cat was having a rough time—no peace,_no proper
food, and the children constantly mauling her
babies.

When the pups were three days old, I went
into the shed, and then stopped, blinking in
amazement. Four kittens were nestling in with
the pups. I went out, looked towards the cottage
——and understood.

With stealth, determination, and singleness of
purpose the cat was carrying a kitten across the
ﬁfty yards of rough ground that separated me
from my neighbours. She climbed my four’foot
fence, balanced perilously for a moment, dropped
into the garden.

She leaped on to the high window~sill of the
shed, worked her way through a six’inch opening,
jumped to the ﬂoor, and gently laidher kitten with
the other four.

Then she went back for the last kittenﬂmaking
six journeys in all. She meant her babies to have
their place in the sun.

My labrador was curious, but unperturbed.
She seemed to sense that the little mother cat
was in bad trouble at a very difﬁcult time.

 

 

 

 




 

May 1956 THEANIMAL WORLD 53

THE RSPCA AT WORK

 

 

MARCH 1956

RSPCA INSPECTORS

2,271 Complaints of cruelty investigated.
4 Offenders imprisoned.
73 Oﬂenders ﬁned.
54 Persons guilty of minor acts of cruelty cautioned in writing.
785 Registered cautions were administered by Inspectors.

CLASSIFICATION OF CONVICTIONS

HORSES—Working in an unﬁt state 1
CATTLE—Starving, neglecting, conveying and exposing

for sale in an unﬁt state. . . 5
PIGS—Starving, neglecting, beating
COATS—Starving 1
DOGS—Starving, neglecting, killing in improper man

ner, etc. . . . 19

CATS—Starving, neglecting, killing in improper man
ner, shooting and wounding, etc. ... 14

RABBITS—Neglecting.

p—l

FOWLs—Starving, neglecting, exposing for sale in an
unﬁt state... . . . ..

DUCKS—Neglecting ~
TURKEYs—Exposing for sale in an unﬁt state
PIGEONS—Neglecting . . .

GULL—Shooting and wounding

HHy—AHQ

OFFENCES UNDER THE PROTECTION OF BIRDSACT, 1954:
Conﬁning birds in small cages . y 4

Being in possession of recently taken birds 3

Oﬁering for sale other than close ringed specimens
bred in captivity . . 2
Using bird lime 2
Setting spring traps 1
Injuring 3
Killing 3

VARIOUS OEEENCES:

Steel-tooth traps—set in open 1
Permitting in offences . . . 2
TOTAL NUMBER OF CONVICTIONS 77

During MARCH, 1956, Magistrates, at the request of the
RSPCA, disqualiﬁed ELEVEN persons from owning a dog or
' holding a dog licence Disqualiﬁcations were as follows: TWO
for 2 years, FOUR for 5 years; ONE for 10 years; TWO for
20 Years; TWO for Life. . ..

In MARCH, 1956, two persons were disqualiﬁed under the
Protection of Animals (Amendment) Act, 1954:

Disqualiﬁed for 5 years from keeping pigeons.
Disqualiﬁed for 3 years from keeping livestock.

Total number of COMPLAINTS from January lst 6,843
Total number of CONVICTIONS from January lst 201
Total number of CAUTIONS from January lst 2,321

HEADQUARTERS CLINICS

No of animals handled:
Cats 4,009 Dogs 4,028 Miscellaneous 1,269 Total 9,306
No. of animals given emergency ﬁrst—aid: 1,920

.PIITNEY CONVALESCENT WARD

No. of animals handled:
Cats 19 Dogs 77 Total 96

NIGHT STAFF

No. of calls received: 1,289

No. of animals given emergency ﬁrst aid: 1

No. of animals treated by Veterinary Surgeon: 229

N o. of animals rescued: 13

No. of complaints: 10

Miles covered by ambulance in respect of urgent calls: 2,009

NORTH WALES UNIT

First—Aid Cases:
Cats 12 Dogs 26 Total 38

No. of animals handled by Unit:
Cats 69 Dogs 67 Miscellaneous 6 Total 142

No. of mil es covered by Unit: 2,230

AWARDS

RECOMMENDATIONS CONSIDERED 34

BRONZE MEDALS 11
CERTIFICATES OF MERIT... 14

RECORDS FOR 1955

INSPECTION
COMPLAINTS 28,128
CONVICTIONS . . . . . . . . . 1,052
CAUTIONs- . . . . . . . . . 9,843

HEADQUARTERS CLINICS
No. of animals handled: 148,963

‘ NIGHT STAFF
No. of calls: 18,545

 




JO THEANIMALWORLD

May 1956

 

 

Echoes of the Arctic Winter

 

Photo by courtesy of Daily Mirror

‘jumble’, a spaniel rescued on Wimbledon Common
by 50-year-old Miss Peggy Mayers, who plunged into
0 l5 ft. deep pond and with a branch smashed a 60 ft.
path through ice to the dog. She was given an
immediate award of RSPCA Silver Medal for Gallantry

‘
*

 

Photo by courtesy of Stroud journal

lnspector Heath seen breaking ice coating a cattle
trough (near Tom Long’s Post) used by horses and
cattle who graze on local common land

 

WILDFOWL IN WINTER

From a Correspondent

Reprinted from ‘The Times’ with acknowledgments;
this is a brief quotation only from the full ‘Times’
article.

One frozen night I heard wild geese ﬂying overv
head as I journeyed home from Fleet Street.
Probably they were whitevfronts, frozen out of
their East Anglian saltings, and making for the
milder haven of Chichester Harbour.

The well’being of the wild geese is today an
urgent problem, and the national system of wild—
fowl refuges, to which the Nature Conservancy
referred in its report, has a long way to go before
it becomes an actuality. The intention is to
establish a series of ‘base camps’ for geese and
ducks at suitable places round our coast. This
will prove a complex operation, in which many
interests are involved, but progress is being made.
The first refuge has come into existence on the
Humber.

The refuges are intended to provide undis.
turbed resting places for the wild geese and ducks
which breed in the Arctic, but spend the winter
in Britain. If possible, breeding grounds for our
own summer population will also be provided
but the winter visitors need first consideration
since only a small proportion of our Wildfowl
nest here.

Nearly all wild geese and most ducks are mari—
time by habit, crossing the shore line only to feed.

,‘ _ _ ,__-.._'___-

They seek wide, solitary estuaries with sand bars
or mud ﬂats on which to rest, and marsh or salt
ing to which they can ﬂy for food. These places
they seek, but lately they have found them ever
more seldom.

LESSON OF THE ARCTIC WINTER

The most frequent cause of hardship for farm
animals in times of emergency such as blizzard
and ﬂood is the shortage of fodder, as distri—
bution services by dealers may break down.
Farms equipped to hold large stocks of fodder
can usually avoid this risk, and both they and
other farmers less affected by the emergency
conditions are often able to make fodder
available to their less fortunate colleagues.

The RSPCA in such emergencies has always
helped, and will continue to do so, though It
takes the View that the feeding and general care 0
animals are primarily the responsibility of the
owners.

The NFU, through its local organization, has
also been active in locating fodder for its members
who are in difﬁculty, and, following discusswr}S
with the Union, it has now been agreed that 1n
times of emergency RSPCA Inspectors and loca
ofﬁcials of the Union should co’operate Wherever

Possible in their efforts to ensure that fodder gets

through to the farms in need.

 

 

«‘ u

 




 

54 THEANIMALWORLD

A WARNING
A courageous letter comes from Mrs E. G. Hurst,
honorary secretary of Retford Auxiliary, who says :—

Many times I have thought of writing to you
to see if you thought my story interesting enough
to publish in Animal World, and each time I have
stopped because it still upsets me, as I unwittingly
caused suffering and even now, two years later,
I hate myself. But on' the other hand it is a warnv
ing to others.

I have a lovely Siamese cat, named Smokey
Joe, who was two last September. But, when he
was a kitten I owned a washing machine and one
lovely blowy day I fetched a blanket down to
wash. As I was in rather a hurry I stood over the
washer while it went through its different stages
until it reached the last fast spin.When it had been
spinning for about a minute I switched off the
washer, opened the door, pulled out the blanket,
turned to put it in a basket and then turned again

to slam the washer door and switch on the
electricity.

The washer immediately went into a fast
spin and I went down the garden to hang out
the blanket, little knowing that one inquisitive
kitten had jumped into the washer while my
back was turned!

As I returned to the house the machine shut
itself off and then I heard coming from it the most
awful groans. In a panic I opened the door and
lifted out a poor limp steamy kitten making the
most awful noise and bleeding from the mouth.
I quickly phoned the veterinary surgeon and
my husband. Both lost no time in coming. The
veterinary surgeon examined the kitten and
stated that as far as he could judge no bones were
broken but that the tongue was practically cut out
of the mouth and the cat was badly shocked.

 

May 1956

 

So began the long vigil. By the time the
shock had worn off sufﬁciently for the veter‘
inary surgeon to stitch the tongue back it had
gone septic. By now we were determined to
save the cat and after a course of penicillin he
slowly rallied. It was a nightmare, for every
time he opened his mouth his tongue fell out
and we had to push it back. Feeding him was
most difficult and the veterinary surgeon
thought it would always be one sided as it
was only hanging by one end.

To cut a long story short, Smokey Joe made a
wonderful recovery and the only evidence of his
escapade is when he yawns and there right across
his tongue is a thin line. A constant reminder. to
me! He of course cashed in on his experience
long ago and I am spending the rest of his life
trying to make it up to him. We also have an
Alsatian dog named Penny Plain, who shares our
vigil and who loves him as much as we do.

We got rid of the washing machine!

I know you will think me careless apart from
all the many things I called myself, but it is a fact
it did happen and so easily, tool

Smokey [0e and Penny Plain

 

NO CALF IN NAVAL EXERCISE

The RNVR combined exercise under the title -

‘Appointment with Venus’ was to have involved
the capture of a young heifer in the Abersoch
area of North Wales. The RSPCA protested
through Inspector T. E. Thelwell and received
assurances from Commander Bernard Smith that
a live animal would not be used.

The animal was to have been captured, led to
Abersoch beach, transported thence to HMS
Mersey and disembarked the following day in
Liverpool, being transported back to Abersoch
by road or train. The RSPCA said that there was
a likelihood of distress to the animal and that a
dummy should be substituted.

The RSPCA has thanked Commander Smith

for accepting its advice in the interests of the
animal.

MYXOMATOSIS
Describing the existence of an attenuated or
weakened strain of myxomatosis from which
rabbits recover, a Ministry of Agriculture Press
release states:

In Australia, many attempts have been
made to replace the attenuated virus by a
fully virulent strain but without success. Rab—
bits infected With the standard strain of the
disease are ill and infective for about a week
but with the attenuated strains they are ill
for about three weeks. In consequence, where
the more virulent and the attenuated Strains
run side by side, it is usual for the attenuated

strain to persist and for the virulent strain to

die out.

 
   

 




 

58 THE ANIMALWORLD

 

 

PIT PONIES’ FRIENDS

Burnhope Miners’ Lodge complained that cona
densation in the roof of the colliery caused water
drops tofall on the ponies, who in consequence
suffered discomfort and were robbed of proper
rest.

The Lodge demanded protective clothing for the
ponies, and it has been granted. A wash house
demanded by the men has also been provided, so
that the ponies may be cleansed while under shel’
ter, and not standing-in the open air, as previously
happened.

Suggestions made by the RSPCA for solving
the condensation problem, which still exists, are:
the installation of an electric fan heater (properly
enclosed because of the danger from sparking),
the lining of the roof with unpainted asbestos,
the provision of a proofed canvas cover over
”each loose box or stall.

A WARNING

In dealing with unwanted pets the RSPCA urges
the public to contact only reputable animal wel’
fare societies lest, as happened a little while ago,
an owner, parting with a dog, unwittingly allowed
his pet to become the subject of experimentation
with possibly consequent suffering. _

The RSPCA ﬁnds good homes in private houses
for approximately 28,000 animals a year; every
home is checked personally by an RSPCA
Inspector.

CAT SCRATCH FEVER

In the opinion of the RSPCA, there is no need
to attach undue important to the recent state;
ment on this matter in the British Medical Journal.
The whole object of the article was to draw the
attention of general practitioners to a condition
that can give rise to wrong diagnosis. .

7 In point of fact, any scratch, cut, or bite
can lead to sepsis in the infected area, especi—
ally if the patient is run down or anaemic, or if
strict cleanliness is not observed. There is no
cause for readers to feel the slightest alarm
7 and they would be very unwise if they were to
part with pets on such very ﬂimsy evidence.

 

POULTRY: HUMANE VICTORY

A prospective poultry keeper, inquiring of
RSPCA Headquarters whether there was an
element of cruelty in the battery system, was
. ”told that the method was far from humane.
He was sent a copy of the RSPCA leaﬂet
‘Conveyorabelt . Eggs’ and he promptly
, wrote to Headquarters: ‘Your letter has en—
. uabled me to decide on my course of
"action—Le. not to keep battery hens.’

 

 

 

RSPCA OBJECTS TO A FILM
Commenting recently on Press statements issued
by RKO, makers of the ﬁlm The Conqueror, that
scenes in the ﬁlm depicting the fancied cruelty
and possible injury to horses were strictly super—
vised throughout by the American equivalent of
the RSPCA, the London Headquarters of the
RSPCA points out that whilst noting that super—
vision was exercised during the ﬁlming, the So—
ciety deplores the results seen on the cinema
screens. ~

Scenes depicting cruelty to animals, as certain
of these do, says the RSPCA, must do harm to
the work of promoting animal welfare.

STAG HUNT

From time to time incidents during stag hunts
have been reported by other organizations to the
RSPCA for InspeCtors to investigate. Subse—
quently, there has, perhaps, been no prosecution,
and the public sometimes wonders whether this
means that ‘everything is all right’.

The RSPCA recently explained, in a special
statement to the Press, that the Society, on re—
ceiving reports from Inspectors, must consider
whether existing Acts are infringed.

Though there may be no infringement of
such Acts, and, in consequence, action cannot
be taken in the Courts, the RSPCA may still
deplore the incident investigated.

As for the investigation of any incident occur—
ring during a stag hunt, the RSPCA has always
the gravest grounds for criticism. The Society
believes that the hunting of stags with hounds
should be made illegal and it has many times given
support to Bills that have sought to ban this
‘sport’.

Moreover, the Society will continue to work
for this reform, using the reports of its Inspectors
as evidence in support of its efforts. Even though
proceedings may not be instituted, no investigaa
tion is thus undertaken to no purpose, and
RSPCA Inspectors will always investigate every

incident in which the illvtreatment of any animal ’

is, suspected to be involved.

OBITUARY
With sincere regret we report the death of:
Judge J. T. Tudor Rees, President, Surrey Epsom
Branch; The Hon Mrs Wilsoaneathcote, Presiv
dent, Isle of Wight Branch; Mr Emile T. Evans,
hon treasurer, Cardiganshire Branch; Mrs H.
Wright, hon sec of Ulley auxiliary; and of these
supporters: Miss A. D. Hulme, Mrs M. S.
Iéiarbord, Mrs Calley, Miss N. Morris and Lady
tott.

‘CROMMIE’ .
In memory of ‘Crommie’, an anonymous gift of
£10 10s. has been given towards the Preston
Animals’ Home.

May 1956 ‘-

”mom 4 ’

 

 

 

 




 

 

  
     

May 1956

THE ANIMALWORLD 59

 

 

 

BRANCH NEWS

Blackmaninoff: once a very
unhappy stray and now fat
and healthy thanks to the
kindness of Mrs [. K. H.
Rowland-Winchcombe, who
sends this picture

(Where a function is organized for the raising of funds, we
give, wherever possible, the place where held, the type of
function, and the name of the organizer 0r organizers, followed
by the sum raised.)

Ashton, Stalybridge, Mossley, Hyde, Glossop and District
Ashton-under-Lyne, jumble sale, £31 53. 3d.

Birkenhead and Wirral The Mayor of Birkenhead, Alder-
man T. E. Anderson, presided at the Branch annual meeting

and prize-giving at the Town Hall. Mr W. H. Munday,

branch sec, presented his report and among those
present were Mr Fred Willmer, branch chairman and Mr
F. J. Winchester, Council Member. The Mayoress presented
the prizes to the winners in the essay competition.

  
   

Photo by courtesy of the Yorkshire Evening News

This display, showing a nativity scene, was arranged by

Mrs Morrison, Chairman of the Doncaster Branch, at the

Doncaster Dogs’ Home. As already reported £50 was
raised for Branch funds

Bromley and District (Kent) West Wickham auxiliary
annual general meeting was held at the Parish Hall, West
chkham, and the chair was taken by Mrs Storrer, auxiliary
preSIdent. Mrs V. K. Syer, aux hon see, was present.
CroYdon Borough Croydon, jumble sale, MISS L. Whyte
(branch hon sec), £25.

Essex—Mid, Brentwood, Chelmsford, Romford and District
Mrs Donovan, branch hon sec, gave a talk to Brentwood
Parish Church Young Wives Group, and Navestock
Women’s Institute. A donation of £1 1s. was given to branch
funds by the latter.

*

Brentwood, bazaar, members of committee, £100-
Furness and Barrow The annual meeting of Barrow aux-
lllary was held in Foresters Hall, Barrow. Mr_‘Shet’ﬁeld Sam’
Newbould, a steeplejack, was presented With an RSPCA
certiﬁcate for rescuing a cat from the top of a cooling tower.
Mr E. E. Chadwick, aux chairman, took the chalr and reports

 

Photo: courtesy of
Nicholas Home
This picture shows
the Torquay and
South East Devon
Branch stand at a
lO-day exhibition.
The begging dog
box shown in the
picture raised
£122 45. lOd.

were submitted by Mr H. C. Barber, hon treasurer, and Mr
R. Hampson, retiring hon sec.

Glamorgan—Mid and Port Talbot Porthcawl, sale, Mrs
V. L. Hands (Porthcawl aux hon sec), £67 9s.

Grimsby and District Grimsby, dance, Major C. Fitz-
williams (branch chairman).

Halifax Halifax, second-hand clothing and jumble sale,
Mr C. S. Horner (branch hon sec), over £285.

Kent—Mid, Maidstone and District Maidstone, lecture by
Mr Peter Skinner (Brisbane), Miss M. Grant (committee
member), £3 125. 6d.

*

Maidstone, whist drive, Mrs E. Williams (branch com-
mittee member), £12.
Kent—North-West Dartford, Christmas bazaar, £37.
Lancashire——East, and Blackburn Burnley auxiliary annual
general meeting was held in Burnley. ‘
Norfolk West Mrs Swarm, Feltwell aux hon sec, presented
Michael Edwards with an RSPCA certiﬁcate of merit and a
book for rescuing a cat and three kittens from the top of a
tree.
North Tees Division Hartburn, coffee morning, Mrs Brad-
ford, £25 83. 6d.
Northumberland West Hexham, Valentine dance and bring
and buy sale, £53.

Photo: courtesy Birmingham Gazette

An attractive display at Birmingham

 




 

May 1956

 

6O THEANIMALWORLD

 

Nottingham and Notts Miss Mary Malcolm, the television
personality, opened the Sutton in Ashﬁeld auxiliary exhibi-
tion stand at the Trade Exhibition held at the Sutton-in-
Ashﬁeld Baths. The stall raised £17 12s. 10d. for branch funds.
Rochdale The Mayor of Rochdale presided at the branch
annual meeting held in the Council Chambers, and was, sup-
ported by the Mayoress and the branch chairman, Mr Peter
Scott. Among those present were Miss Bamford, sec,
and Mr J. Fletcher, chairman, Oldham branch.

Shropshire Shrewsbury, whist drive, Shrewsbury auxiliary,
£42 10s.

Surrey—Parley and District Caterham, jumble sale, £9.
Warwickshire South and East Urquart Hall, rummage sale,
£26.

Yorkshire—Bradford and District Bradford, jumble sale,
£12.

Picture sent by Mrs Guest,

Fowey aux hon sec, shows

Penny the begging dog box

in which £31 I 3s. was col-
lected

RSPCA FILM NEWS

Since the last report the Society’s ﬁlms have been shown at
the following places:

Gwaun Valley, Goodwick, Denmark Hill, Warrington,
North Shields, Whitechapel, St Austell, St Martin—in—the—
Fields (London), Birmingham, Leek, Berwick, Guis—
borough, Weston—super~Mare, Retford, Mathry, Epsom,
Carlisle, Llandudno, York, Dalton—in—Furness, Bourne—
mouth, Whitehead, Sandridgebury, Islington, St Davids,
Stevenage, Great Torrington, London Docks, Scorton,
South Benﬂeet, Ipswich, Hereford, Southport, Kirkby
Stephen, Okehampton, Aylesbury, Woodmansterne, Wav—
’ endon, Limehouse, Ottershaw Park, Westgate—on—Sea,
Kirkby Lonsdale, Dagenham, East Ham, Kimberley, Can—
ning Town, Trowbridge, Cardiff, Sevenoaks, Bolton,
Hatﬁeld, Bury St Edmunds, Lowestoft, Maidstone, Earls
Colne, Llanelly, Ellesmere, Lymington, Chislehurst, NeWa
‘ port, Crowborough, Gravesend, Kidderminster, Port
Talbot, Saxmundham, Dover, Bristol, Bewdley, Battersea
Park, Trecwn.

HOUSE—TO—HOUSE COLLECTIONS

(We give, wherever possible, the place at which the house—to—
house collection was made and the name of the organizer or
organizers. )

Earlsﬁeld and Wimbledon Park, Mr D. J. Parham (aux hon
sec), £4 ls. 6d.; Southampton, Mr Hempstead (AD Groups
hon sec), £8 93. 1d.

 

FLAG DAY

 

 

GOODS
PLASTIC BADGES

LIST ON APPLICATION

THE UNIVERSAL BUTTON co. LTD.

1-9 Birkbeck Street, Bethnal Green, LONDON, E.2
Telephone: BIShopsgate 5750

Telegrams: ‘Unibutco Edo’

 

  

FORTHCOMING FLAG DAYS

At the time of going to press we have been informed that
the following Flag Day collections are to be held in the near

future:
Bedfordshire County ‘ .-
Boston (Lincolnshire) ..

Braughing, Hormead, Buntingford

and Cottered (Hertfordshire)
Bridlington .
Buckinghamshire County
Bury St Edmunds
Cardiff . .

Carmarthenshire County

0.

Carnforth (Lancashire)
Cirencester
Corby and District (Northants)

Dartford

Dereham
Fleet and Crookham (Hampshire)

Fordingbridge (Hampshire)
Gillingham (Kent) ..

Hailsham Rural District (Sussex)

Haverfordwest

Irthlingborough (\Wellingborough)::.

Knebworth

Letchworth . . .
Mexborough
Monmouthshire County
Newport (Monmouthshire). . .
Oxford
Puckeridge (Hertfordshire)
Rugby
Sawbridgeworth .. . . . .
Sedgeﬁeld, Stockton-on—Tees
Sevenoaks (Kent)
Shefﬁeld
Sittingbourne . . .
Southampton. . .

Stevenage
Stratfordvon—Avon
Sunderland

Swindon ... .7

Thrapston . . .

Thurnscoe, Goldthorpe and Bolton—

on—Dearne
Tiverton (Devon)
Todmorden (Lancashire)

Tring .. .
Ware . . .
Wareside

Welford—on—Avon (Warwickshire)

Wellingborough . . . . . .
Whittlesey, near Peterborough

 

Saturday, June 9
Saturday, June 2

Saturday, May 26
Saturday, May 5
Saturday, June 9
Saturday, June 9
Saturday, June 2
Friday SL Saturday,
May 18 and 19 —
Saturday, June 16
Saturday, June 9
Friday & Saturday,
June 8 and 9
Saturday, May 26
Friday, May 11
Saturday, May 19
Saturday, May 26
Saturday, June 9
Saturday, June 16
Saturday, June 9
Saturday, June 9
Saturday, June 2
Saturday, May 26
Saturday, May 12
Saturday, June 9
Saturday, June 2
Saturday, May 12
Saturday, June 2
Saturday, June 9
Saturday, June 2
Saturday, May 12.
Saturday, June 9
Saturday, June 16
Saturday, May 19
Saturday, May 5
Saturday, June 2
Saturday, June 9
Saturday, May 26
Friday 6L Saturday,
May 18 and 19
Saturday, May 19

Saturday, May 12
Saturday, May 26
Friday & Saturday,
June 1 and 2
Saturday, May 19
Saturday, June 2
Saturday, June 2
Friday, May 18
Saturday, June 2
Thursday, May 17

An appeal is made to any readers who are able to assist

 

these collections to communicate with the local hon secrev
tary concerned; the name and address of this ofﬁcial will
gladly be supplied by RSPCA Headquarters.

SIXTY YEARS LATER
At the Birkenhead and Wirral branch annual
general meeting and essay competition prize
giving, the Mayor of Birkenhead, Alderman T. E.
Anderson, said it was sixty years ago that he
attended the Town Hall to receive a certificate
similar to those presented by the Mayoress at the
present meeting. A '

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

R. SJ’. C.A.

 

 

 

FORM OF BEQUEST FOR NATIONAL WORK

To those benevolent individuals who may wish to become benefactors by Will to this
Society, the following form is respectfully suggestedz— l

‘l bequeath to the ROYAL SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS, founded
1824, for the general purposes of that Society, the sum of £ .......................................... , free
of death duty and the receipt of the Treasurer for the time being of the said Society shall
be sufficient discharge for such legacy.’ (If it should be desired that the legacy should be eace
pended on some particular phase of the Society’s work, a direction to this effect may be added to the

form of bequest.)

 

NOTE
By the Act of William IV and I Victoria, cap. 26, all Wills or Codicils must be in Writing signed by the

Testator, and attested by two witnesses in the presence of the Testator and of each other.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Manufacturers of

nmneonms

HOBSON & SONS CAPS HELMETS LEATHER

BELTS POUCHES etc. etc
(LONDON) LTD
Gold and Silver Laces

Embroideries of every
description for ALL
UNIFORMED SERVICES

All inquiries to

154-164 TOOLEY STREET

LONDON BRIDGE S.E.1 PATTERNS OF CLOTH
and ESTIMATES

Telephone: HOP 2476 (4 lines) will be forwarded free of charge
Telegrams: HOBSON, BOROH, LONDON

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




LONDON JOINT ANIMAL FLAG DAY

SATURDAY
JUNE 2

‘Please help!’

HOW TO HELP

By making a street collection in the Metropolitan Police area (London

and Suburbs) on JUNE 2.

By making a house to house collection in London (and Suburbs)

between MAY 27 and JUNE 2 (inclusive).
By placing tins and emblems in shops and business premises.

By making a private collection amongst relatives and friends, even
if you do not live in the London area.

By sending a donation.

By sending the names and addresses of friends who
are prepared to collect.

l Ell“ ‘ \ ‘\ "WM" .x “anti

N.B.———No one under the age of 18 is permitted to c012 . p
‘ .. Q .\

lect either in the street or from house to house in \\

the LONDON area. It is, however, sometimes 3 WWI ’ 24%).“ «3.5; . .

”9% \u ”'n/ *

411W \ ”2:3"!

r 5? ‘ll': 'O/

Offers of help, please, to: . (Will/Windham“
RSPCA, Appeals Department, . Tm" Y°"°'
was sure
I05 Jermyn Street, London, SWI yaw, he”)...

possible for young people to make private col—t lull 2
lections amongst relatives and friends. M ’ {\l
i

////////r

 

Printed by Shenval Press, Simson Shand Ltd, London, Hertford and Harlow, and
published by Arthur W. Moss for the RSPCA at 105 Jermyn Street, London, SW1

 

 




