One Bull Is Too Many!

“A bullﬁght would be rather expensive”
was the purported reply made by Princess
Grace when Prince Rainier suggested he
would like to bring bullﬁghting to Monaco.

If by any remote chance the Princess was
thinking of the bulls, we agree. Death is,
indeed, a high price to pay even to amuse
a Monarch.

There is reason to believe, that it was her
husband’s bankroll and not the fate of the
bulls which was uppermost in the lady’s
mind. For after attending the bullﬁghts in
Mallorca. where six bulls were slain, the
Princess was quoted as saying “it was too
many”; also that she “shuddered at the
sight of the bulls charging the blindfolded

horses.”

How extremely sensitive, Your Highness,
to be disturbed because six bulls were killed
for your entertainment! And how delicate

to shudder at the danger confronting the
blindfolded horses!

But how much more American, and
how much more humane, had you declared:
“One bull is too many to be killed to
provide a barbaric spectacle.”

For, Princess Grace, you know only too
well that in your position you are a leader
in establishing trends.

One of the latest and most deplorable
bullﬁght trends, publicized recently by
Trans World Airlines, is the establishment
of the Festa Brava bullring, where tourists
to Spain are given free access to test their
ability as amateur matadors.

While we don’t mean to imply that the
former Grace Kelly has any responsibility
for this new wrnikle to popularize bull~
ﬁghting, we’ll lay a little bet that some of
her admirers will be among the travelling
Americans who will participate. For their
ideal did give her nod of approval to this
cursed sport by her attendance, didn’t she?

First Scholarship Awarded
The ﬁrst ASPCA Veterinarian Scholarship

was awarded to Thomas N. Gorman, a
jUnior student at New York State Veterinary
College, Cornell University. The $300 scholar-
ship, presented by the ASPCA out of funds
raised by a series of benefit horse shows at
Secor Farms, will be applied to Mr. Gor-

man’s tuition for his senior year.

The student, a resident of Marcy, New
York, has had a life interest in horses, his
father being a breeder, interested in show

and race animals.

The annual scholarship is open to resi-
dents of New York State who expect to
specialize in horse work. After graduation
the ASPCA will consider winners for a
position on the staff of our Hospital, if a

position is available.

 

Walter Buggs, ll, his eyes overﬂowing with

tears of happiness, greets his new dog after
ASPCA presented the dog to him. Walter’s
former pet, a German shepherd named Rex,
was killed by a hit-run driver.

17

 

 




 

FELIS REGINA

IN CE the early Egyptians man has been

trying to domesticate the cat —— and
the job is still unﬁnished. No animal has
so successfully kept aloof while taking a
lively part in human affairs.

Cats today—~there are about 25 million
in the United States —— have learned to greet
guests when they hear a doorbell, take tele-
phones off the hook and listen to messages,
operate a typewriter, open the bread box
and turn on faucets. A cat helped build the
Grand Coulee Dam by carrying a string tied
to its tail through a winding drain pipe.
The Standard Oil Corp. of New Jersey has
paid a cat $4.40 a week room and boa-rd
for rat catching.

Complete with agents and insurance poli-
cies, cats may earn $15 a day and more as
models and actors in advertising, motion
pictures and television. Cats are often taken
along on dangerous wartime missions. A
sea-going cat was |torpedoed and spent 56
hours on a 'life raft, keeping up the morale
of six shipwrecked sailors. .A Boston man

left $100,000 to his cat when he died.

Clearly the cat is riding on a tremendous
surge of popularity. but it wasn’t always so.

Man Meets Cat

In contrast to the dog the cat has become
domesticated only in recent times —— that is
as far as it has ever become domesticated at
all. According to those who should know,
man adopted the dog before the Stone Age.
Cat and man friendships, by comparison,
started only yesterday with the Ancient
Egyptians in about 3000 BC.

Egypt, the ﬁrst large agricultural land
where there were big granaries, naturally
was plagued with rats and mice. The African
cat, about the size of our domestic cat, was
a welcome ally. The Egyptians worshipped
cats as gods, built huge temples for them,
imposed the death penalty for killing one

4

of them, embalme-d the-m in tombs and even
buried them in special cat cemeteries.

Thus protected, it was inevitable that the
clever sacred cat should lose all fear of man
in the course of a few generations. Imagine
how superciliously a cat of those times must
have treated its host when today’s pets
rarely give their owners much attention.

Oddly enough it took centuries before the
cat migrated to other lands. Some say the
Phoenician traders introduced tame Egyp-
tian cats to Italy. They were known in
Greece and Rome before the Christian era.

Europe Adopts the Cat

Slowly as northern Europe turned to
grain growing as the principal occupation,
cats developed an important place for them-
selves. In Wales there were deﬁnite regula-
tions as to the price that might be asked
for a cat and what qualities the buyer could
demand. Anybody who killed a cat had to
expiate his crimes by sacriﬁcing a sheep,
lamb or a bundle of wheat.

By the ﬁfth century the cat was highly-
regarded in China and by the tenth century
greatly esteemed in Japan.

Then from this crest of popularity the
cat experienced its lowest eblb since the in-
vention of the mousetrap. The idea that cats
were witches and somehow connected with
the powers of evil spread through supersti-
tious medieval Europe, and everywhere they
were pursued and killed. King Philip II of
Spain and Louis XVI of France had them

tortured for amusement.

Cats retained a limited popularity, how-
ever, especially with writers, sailors and
statesmen, and gradually a slow movement
in their favor set in.

The Italian poets Petrarch, Tasso and
Andria Dorea; Popes Gregory the Great,
Leo XII and Pius IX all loved cats. Arch-

 

 




 

 

41‘ )n.
a) y

) y.“

. x

: .EC
1.x.

‘ -. A9.
(”.944 M m.

H

s 'Ai
’ 391.31

..A...A:A.l:
Lnsﬁun :.;
I. .f I 4 Q}.

:«A..lx_ luff . m .
J .I

2.73%}
\Hr

 




 

 

 

 

Executive

Finance

Visiting

Real Estate,
Building and
Maintenance

Retirement
Plan

Education

Horse Show
For the Board

For the Society

Nominating
For the Board

ASPCA COMMITTEES

WILLIAM ROCKEFELLER, Chairman
HUGH E. PAINE

WILLIAM A. MEYERHOFF

JOHN D. BEALS, JR.

WILLIAM F. MORGAN, JR.

LOUIS REYNAL

RICHARD C. KETTLES, JR.

JOSE A. MACHADO, JR.

JOHN W. CROSS, JR.

WILLIAM A. MEYERHOFF, Chairman
HUGH E. PAINE

JAMES H. JENKINS

JOHN D. BEALS, JR.

ROBERT L. JONES

WILLIAM ROCKEFELLER

ALASTAIR B. MARTIN, Chairman
WILLIAM A. ROCKEFELLER

WM. ROSS PROCTOR

GEORGE B. WAGSTAFF

JOSE A. MACHADO, JR.

JAMES H. RIPLEY, Chairman
WILLIAM A. MEYERHOFF
JOHN D. BEALS, JR.
WILLIAM ROCKEEELLER

JOSE A. MACHADO, JR., Chairman
HUGH E. PAINE

WILLIAM A. MEYERHOFF

WARREN W. MCSPADDEN, Secretary

WILLIAM F. MORGAN, JR., Chairman
THOMAS D. HUGHES
WILLIAM E. BUCKLEY

JOSEPH B. MURRAY, Chairman
JOHN W. CROSS, JR.
ALASTAIR B. MARTIN

RICHARD C. KETTLES, JR.

MRS. MARION T. SHOTTER
MRS. GEORGE HAYMAN
GORDON WRIGHT

WILLIAM E. BUCKLEY, Chairman
JOHN W. CROSS, JR.
JAMES H. RIPLEY

For the Society

For Ofﬁcers

Public
Relations

Annual
Meeting

Women’s
Division

 

MRS. WILLIAM W. HOPPIN
MISS ANNA R. ALEXANDRE
MRS. J. C. TRAPHAGEN

WM. ROSS PROCTOR, Chairman
ALASTAIR B. MARTIN

JOSEPH B. MURRAY

JOHN D. BEALS, JR.

WILLIAM F. MORGAN, JR.

LOUIS REYNAL, Chairman

R. W. ALLEN

ARTHUR L. AMUNDSEN

N. MICHAEL BROMLEY

MRS. GEORGE FIELDING ELIOT
THOMAS A. FEGAN

ROBERT B. FERRIS
RAYMOND J. GARBUTT, D.V.M.
MRS. GEORGE HAYMAN
WALTER L. HOLLINDE
WARREN W. MCSPADDEN
FRANCIS MELVIN

GEORGE TUSCHER

CHARLES R. WADSLEY

THOMAS D. HUGHES, Chairman
LOUIS REYNAL
RICHARD C. KETTLES, JR.

MRS. GEORGE HAYMAN
Director of Volunteers

MRS. ROBERT A. BOUCHER

. JAMES BURTON

. JAMES CASSIDY

. WALTER P. CHRYSLER
. E. KEPPLER COWEN

. ARTHUR CROWDER

. OSCAR B. DE LA ROSA

. WILLIAM GREENE

. FREDERICK R. HANSON
. RICHARD A. JOHNSON
. I. MORTON LEVINE

. D. CULMORE LINCOLN

. JAMES MCCUTCHEON
MRS. N. H. MORRIS MCOSTRICH
MRS. ALFRED NASH

MRS. ALLEN L. PATTERSON
MRS. WILLIAM H. REID
MRS. ROBERT A. SCHMID
MISS ESTA SILSBEE

MRS. MAYSON HATCH TUCKER
MRS. SERGE WALTER

MRS. WILLIAM ZECKENDORF

29

 

 

 




 

 

 

\ 4.

_

‘ . a. M

.I. H,

u ,R m,

y P. H
F.

...L a

u ,

. N w

. .N 1

. A m

t

.

‘ N

‘ m,

.

. a

”

, . .7

_

A

 

-.Y,..

 

 

 

 

 

"ﬁve nwv

A
g
_V

TH!"

 

 

 

 

 

Lu“ . . .
5:... .. it .1

. ..\, . iiimr. I
‘. i. s .. 5m

 




 

 

 

Martha Rose Davidson, 7, holds Samuel
Schleifman Memorial Trophy which she won
in the 1956 iunior membership poster con-
test on “Why My Dog Needs a License."

the outside exercise run. This is to be a
plastic sun-break to keep the animals from
suffering from the direct rays of the hot
summer sun.

Bullfighting Still a Threat

To date we have been successful in bar-
ring bullﬁghts from New York. You will
remember that we were threatened with one
last summer —— a Portuguese tourada. A
similar event was actually staged in San
Francisco. The SPCA in that city decided
to make this a test-case. It was out in force
to invoke the anti-cruelty laws of California.
Intimidated, the promoters toned down the
performance, with the result that any an-
ticipated thrill, which the public 'had been
led to expect, was practically eliminate-d. A
good show of any sort usually plays before
an audience of 12,000 in the San Francisco
Cow Palace, where the ﬁght was staged.
When only 2,000 showed up for the bull-
ﬁght, the impressario then turned his eyes
to New York, as a presumably greener
pasture. When he wired us for an interview
we answered as follows:

The American Society for the Prevention
of Cruelty to Animals will vigorously oppose
any effort to stage a Portuguese tourada, a
Spanish corrida, or any other brand of bull-

ﬁght in New York City, or in New York State
where it has jurisdiction. This Society is un-
alterably opposed to this form of so-called
‘sport.’

We can therefore see no useful purpose in
a conference for further discussion of the
subject.

We have heard nothing further from this
particular promoter. But the subject is not
dead by any means. During the year we
received no less than twenty requests for
our approval of similar spectacles. Moronic
appetites are being whe-tted daily by motion
pictures, travel ads, magazine articles and
television programs featuring bullﬁghts.
Since publicity and news, while offensive, do
not in themselves constitute cruelty, there
is no action we can take.

Cruelty on Television Protested

But where an act of cruelty —— be it a
bullﬁght or any other form —- takes place
in New York State you can bet we’re on the
job.

As a recent example: Around Easter a
television program, with an audience of en-
thusiastic youngsters, invited the children
onto the stage en masse to take their pick
from a hundred rabbits.

Not only did we protest about this
stampeding process, but voiced our disap-
proval of giving away animals indiscrim-
inately with little thought as to their care
or whether they were wanted in the homes
they went to.

Another ﬂagrant example ~— the worst we
have ever seen — concerned the recommen-
dation of cruel procedures for disciplining
dogs. These ideas were developed in a na-
tional magazine and also used by the maga-
zine in its radio advertising.

In each instance the radio and television
companies as well as the magazine pledged
a more thorough scrutiny of material con-
cerning animals or the performance of ani-
mals. But we cannot do it alone. You can

25

 

 

 




 

HUMANE SLAUGHTER lEGISlATION

What Chance for Passage

 

In Next Session of Congress?

The number S. 1636 is the only resem-
blance between the two pieces of Congres-
sional legislation shown above.

The original bill (to the left), intro-
duced by Senator Hubert H. Humphrey,
called for compulsory humane slaughter of
food animals. Speciﬁcally, it asked that do-
mestic food animals be rendered insensible
to pain and suffering by humane methods
before slaughter.

Not only was this deﬁnitive clause omit-
ted, but the Act which passed the Senate
on July 23 (to the right) was so watered-
down and so weakened that it does no more
than direct the Secretary of Agriculture to
appoint a ten-member Advisory and Research
Committee to study present methods of hu-
mane slaughter, submitting a full report to
the Secretary at the end of a two-year
period.

Senator Humphrey is in no way to blame

 

for the drastic changes made in his bill.
These were made at the behest of the Sen-
ate Committe on Agriculture and Forestry.
As a matter of fact, until the day the pres-
ent S. 1636 passed, it looked as though its
provisions would supplement, but not re-
place, the Senator’s original compulsory hu-
mane slaughter bill.

We owe Senator Humphrey a vote of
gratitude for the gallant battle he fought to
the very end. Right here we would also like
to thank Congressmen Edgar W. Hiestand
and Martha Grifﬁths for the humane
slaughter bills introduced by them in the
House of Representatives.

The House adjourned without acting on
either of their bills or the emasculated ver-

sion of the Humphrey bill passed by the
Senate.

(Continued on Page 20)

 
 

  

 




 

 

OUR NEW PRESIDENT

ILLIAM ROCKEFELLER has been elected

president of the ASPCA to succeed Hugh E.
Paine, who retired after four successful years of
leadership.

Mr. Rockefeller, like his father William A. Rocke-
feller, is steeped in the traditions of the Society.
Both have served on the Board of Managers for
several years.

In turning over the presidency to Mr. Rockefeller
at the Society’s annual meeting on May 21, Mr.
Paine said:

“William Rockefeller is a lawyer by profession and
his experience in that ﬁeld enables him to under-
stand and analyze our problems with clarity, con-
viction and, what is more important, great vision.
I am proud to turn over to Mr. Rockefeller the
reins of ofﬁce and I assure you that the affairs of
the Society will be in safe and competent hands.”

Mr. Paine continues as a member of the Board of
Managers.

21

 

 




CONDENSED STATEMENT OF EXPENSES AND INCOME

FOR THE YEAR ENDED APRIL 30, 1956

EXPENSES INCOME

Humane Workl ............ $ 43,727.62 Memberships and Donations
for Current Expenses ...... $ 82,274.67
Education2 8,585.98

Income from Investments, etc.. . 154,885.14
Hospital3 19856790 Hospital Receipts ........... 121,494.72
Shelter and License Board and Pick-up Fees ...... 56,765.05

Departments4 ------------ 991357675 Income from Dog Licenses . . . 827,606.00

 

Administration and Rent —— Shelters’ Occupancy

Headquarters Building . _ , _ 58,242.48 of Society’s Buildings ...... 69,667.58

Excess of Expenses

Prov' 'o f D r ' t' 36,324.40
151 n or ep ec1a ion over Income .............. 23912-89

Total ............... $1,336,606.05 Total ................ $1,336,606.05

HUMANE WORK—summary of activities on page 31 under Inspection Services, Special Horse Services
and Legal Relations.

EDUCATION—summary of activities on page 30 under Educational Activities.
HOSPITAL—~number of cases treated on page 31 under Hospital Service.
SHELTER AND LICENSE DEPARTMENTS—number of animals handled on page 30 under Shelter

Services.

 

Includes $69,667.58 rental charge for the Shelters’ Occupancy of the. Society’s Buildings—as per contra—-
and $73,678.92 as a provision to re-establish the Society’s Investment Fund.

 

We have audited the accounts of The American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals for the year ended April 30, 1956, and

We hereby certify that the foregoing condensed statement of Expenses and Income
correctly sets forth the results of its operations for that period.

FREDERICK WM. GREENFIELD & Co.
Certiﬁed Public Accountants

New York,
May 11, 1956

36

 




 

 

 

 

”RM *9 BE¢UBT
1 ONE AND mm to

 

By becoming a member

$5 $10 $25 $50 $100 $500 $1,000

By sending a contribution to
HOSPITAL FUND —— to pay for charity cases, equipment, drugs
ADOPTION FUND—to ﬁnd homes for homeless animals

HORSE CARE FUND —— to provide water in summer. inspect
horse shows, bridle paths

GENERAL FUND — to pay for cruelty investigations, education

By expressing condolences with a contribution

To offer condolences to a departed friend’s family, make a con-
tribution instead of sending ﬂowers. The family will truly ap-
preciate the gift which will do some good. The contribution is
recorded in memory of the deceased and we send a warm,
personal letter to the relative designated by the donor.

By endowing a kennel

$250 will endow a dog cage and $100 a cat cage, either in our
Hospital or one of the Shelters—a ﬁne memorial to a pet or
relative. A bronze plaque perpetuates the memory of the de-
ceased and income from the invested gift pays operating costs
of the cage.

By making a bequest

Leave a living memorial to help protect animals from cruelty
and to encourage kindness and humaneness by making a bequest
to the ASPCA in your will. A small amount or a large amount
will build for the future.

Bequest Form on Page 39

 

 




ANIMAL PROTECTION

Published three times yearly by

The American Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

Founded and Incorporated 1866

Vol. 10, No. 2

Editorial Ofﬁce: 30 East 60th Street

Fall 1956

Editor, JANICE PAPRIN

 

OFFICERS ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICES

WILLIAM ROCKEFELLER. President
WILLIAM F. MORGAN, Vice-President
JAMES H. RIPLEY, Vice-President

THOMAS D. HUGHES, Vice-President
WILLIAM A. MEYERHOFF, Treasurer
WILLIAM L. BURTON, Secretary

LOUIS REYNAL, Assistant Secretary
WARREN W. MCSPADDEN, Assistant Treasurer

BOARD OF MANAGERS

JOHN D. BEALS, JR.
WILLIAM E. BUCKLEY
JOHN W. CROSS. JR.
JAMES H. JENKINS
ROBERT L. JONES
RICHARD C. KETTIES, JR.
JOSE A. MACHADO, JR.
ALASTAIR B. MARTIN
JOSEPH B. MURRAY
HUGH E. PAINE

W. Ross PROCTOR
WILLIAM A. ROCKEFELLER
GEORGE B. WAGSTAFF

Managers Emeritus
F. AMBROSE CLARK
HENRY J. FISHER
SAMUEL R. MILBANK

 

 

COVER PICTURE

Walter Chandoha, top photographer of
cats — and dogs, too —has contributed
our cover picture and others on the
pages that follow. In this issue de-
voted to King and Queen Cat we are
grateful for his genius for capturing
ﬂeeting feline moods.

 

 

 

Pictures unless otherwise credited are by AI Levine

TRafalgar 6-7700
441 East 92nd St., New York 28, N. Y. (York Ave.)
WARREN W. MCSPADDEN, General Manager
ARTHUR L. AMUNDSEN, Assistant General Manager
GEORGE H. TUSCHER, Director of Humane Work
BILLIE MAE JOHNSON, Secretary to Committees
THACHER, PROFFITT, PRIzER, CRAWLEY & WOOD,
Attorney and Counsel

HOSPITAL AND CLINIC FOR ANIMALS

441 East 92nd St., New York 28. N. Y.

RAYMOND J. GARBUTT, D.V.M.. Chief Veterinarian
THOMAS A. FEGAN, Business Manager

TRafalgar 6-7700

EDUCATION DEPARTMENT 'I‘Rafalgar 6-7700, Ext. 3|
441 East 92nd St., New York 28, N. Y. (3rd Floor)

PUBLIC RELATIONS DEPARTMENT
30 East 60th St., New York 22, N. Y.
JUNE ELIOT, Director

PLaza 5-1650

MANHATTAN SHELTER .
441 East 92nd St., New York 28. N. Y.
FRANCIS MELVIN, District Manager

TRafalgar 6-7700

BROOKLYN OFFICE AND SHELTER
233 Butler St., Brooklyn 17, N. Y.
(between Nevins and Bond Streets)
CHARLES R. WADSLEY, District Manager

TRiangle 5-9580

BRONX OFFICE AND SHELTER .

420 Morris Park Avenue, Bronx 60, N. Y.
(between Tremont Ave. and East 178th St.)
N. MICHAEL BROMLEY, District Manager

TYrone 2-8500

QUEENS OFFICE AND SHELTER
94-27 158th St., Jamaica 33. L. 1.
ROBERT B. FERRIS, District Manager

REpublic 9-4041

RICHMOND OFFICE AND SHELTER
4 Willow Ave.. Rosebank, S. 1.5, N. Y.
WALTER L. HOLLINDE, District Manager

GIbraltar 7-0122

 

 




' 4
i
1

 

bishop of Taran'to shared his dinner table
with Desdemona, a white Persian, and

Othello, a black cat.
The tale is told that the Prophet Moham-

med’s cat Muezza fell asleep on his sleeve
one day and Mohammed cut off his sleeve
rather than wake the cat.

Cardinal Richelieu’s cats lived in his
room in handsomely cushioned baskets.
Cardinal Wolsey often carried his favorite
cats into the Council Chamber. Lor-d Chester-
ﬁeld gave all his cats a life pension that
they might not suffer after his death from
some other master’s indifference.

Samuel Johnson carried his cat, Hodge, to
the ﬁsh stalls and fed it oysters. Thomas
Gray wrote an elegy to a cat which drowned
in a ﬁshbowl. Charles Dickens’ cat sat be-
side him when he wrote and put out the
candle when he wanted the author to stop.

Faiiﬁes Migrate to America

The Society of Mayflower Descendents
has nothing on American cats, which trace

 

Walter Chandoha

their ancestry back to colonial days. Col-
onists brought cats with them fro-m Europe
and saw them play a big role in the early
success of this country by protecting crops
from rats and mice.

The feline’s stock rose steadily from that
point and, while it has never equalled its
peak during Egypt’s adoration, it is way up
these days, except with a few aelurophobes.

Cats receive their full share of the billion
dollars worth of goods sold yearly by the pet
care industry. (This is more money than it
took Washington to arm the Colonials.)
American cat owners provide their pets
with a wide variety of toys and accessories,
ranging from brushes, combs, jeweled
leashes, and scratching posts (Vital necessi-
ties for apartment cats) to beds like bureau
drawers, and even a $5600 wardrobe.

But despite the millions spent on 20th
century cats, their personalities remain as
much of an enigma to us as they were to

Pharaoh 5,000 years ago.

 




//

 

 

    
  

This year’s James Hop-
kins Award for the [best
improvement in the hu-
mane slaughter of food

Tar JANIIS “comm Aware;
unn-

azizrgss..- ‘ animals went to the Rem-
“‘"ZL‘TT:::;“:‘ E ington Arms Company,
~ ‘ Inc., of Bridgeport,
Conn., for its develop-
ment of. the Remington
Humane Stunner, a de-
vice which stuns an animal before slaughter

without causing injury or pain.

The award consists of a plaque and a
check for $5,000 from a trust fund left to
the ASPCA by the late James Hopkins spe-
ciﬁcally for the purpose of recognizing the
most advanced method for the humane
slaughter of food animals. The presentation
was made at the Society’s annual meeting
by incoming president William Rockefeller
to Harold A. Brown, assistant to the presi-
dent of Remington.

For ﬁfty years the ASPCA, as well as
other animal protective organizations, has
worked toward making humane slaughter a
reality. Since the formation of the National
Humane Slaughter Committee, General Man-

ager Warren W. McSpadden has been a

HOPKINS AWARD

   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

member. This Committe.
representatives from the Am
stitute and leaders in the packin .
and the humane ﬁeld, has faced
that -a solution to humane slaughter wax
come only when a method was perfecte
which would be economically acceptable to
the meat packing industry and would meet
with the approval of the Meat Inspection
Branch of the United States Department of
Agriculture.

ncludes
In-

Sfuns Without Pain

The Remington Humane Stunner. in.
which over $100,000 has been invested in
developing and testing, seems to meet these
challenges. The device is similar to a polo
mallet in appearance. Actuated by a 22-
caliber blank cartridge, a protruding trigger
mechanism stuns the animal without causing
injury or pain. The instrument is hand-
operated.

Several meat packers have already placed
orders with Remington and there is every
reason to believe that there will be a gradual
switch-over in one meat-packing plant after
the other from the methods now practiced to
the employment of the new device for
slaughtering food animals.

 




 

EARLY 1,000 youngsters
jammed Central Park’s Jap-
anese Lawn for ASPCA’s annual
Junior Jamboree. Guests were our
individual junior members and
group member Boy Scouts, Girl
Scouts and Camp Fire Girls.

What’s the biggest thing at a
picnic— refreshments, of course!
Our juniors consumed 750 con-
tainers of milk, 1,800 candy bars,
2,500 ice creams, 3,000 cookies
and 1,000 sodas.

Entertainment included a magic
show, an obedience training dem-
onstration and a program of songs.
Service awards were presented to
Fiona Field, Philip Rubenstein
and Holly Hawkes.

REFRESHMENTS BY:

Bonomo National Dairy
Super Coola Products
National Good Humor

Biscuit Co. Shefﬁeld Farms

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

NEW HORSE WATERING TRUCK

HE horse was the inspiration for the founding of the
ASPCA. Henry Bergh’s concern over the neglect and
cruelty extant in the mid-nineteenth century, when horses
were our chief means of transportation, led him to crusade
for legal protection for all animals.

During the 90 years since this legislation was passed,
mechanized transportation has almost entirely replaced
the horse as a beast of burden, until there are now but a
few hundred such horses left in New York City. Added
to these are riding, police and hack horses, each one re-
quiring inspection throughout the year and cool drinking
water during the summer. The provision of these services
the Society will consider a responsibility and a debt of
honor to its founder as long as horses remain on our
streets.




   
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
    
  
  
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
 

  

 

 

 

Annual Meeting, May 21, 1956

IS year marks the 90th Anniversary
I of The American Society for the Preven-
tion of Cruelty to Animals. The Society was
founded by Henry Bergh and granted a
charter by the New York State Legislature
in 1866. In 1895, under political control,
the dog pound situation in New York City
became a public scandal. In recognition of
the Society’s prestige and ability to handle
this situation in a humane fashion, the Legis-
lature turned over to it the authority for
collecting dog license fees. In return, it is our
responsibility to maintain Shelters to house
lost, strayed or homeless animals.

While it’s true that this assignment ac-
counts for the bulk of animals handled and
two-thirds of our income, we are funda-
mentally a humane society with a diversiﬁed
and extensive program of activities.

The ASPCA Hospital alone is an enor-
mous project. It stands as a symbol of hope
for sick animals and a symbol of progress
in the veterinary world.

Hospital Treated 30,000 Animals

Year by year I have watched the number
of cases grow. Last year I reported that
27,699 animals were treated; this year I
am glad to report the figure was over
30,000. These animals have received'the
expert and tender care of our Chief Veter-
inarian, Dr. Raymond J. Garbutt, and the
other eight members of our excellent veter-
inary staff.

We have the deserved reputation of never

22

Address by HUGH E. PAINE, Outgoing President

turning away an animal in need of care,
even though the owner may not be able to
PaY-

There are so many examples of this that
I scarcely know which one to choose. Let’s
take the case of the bed-ridden woman, who
was on relief. Her only solace was her dog,
Mike. She needed no rude awakening with
an alarm clock in the morning, for Mike
was always there with an affectionate tug
at the covers. Then came the dawn which
broke without the usual cheerful “good
morning.” Mike was listle-ssly lying in a
corner. A neighbor telephoned our Hospital.
After hearing that Mike’s owner was an
invalid, we dispatched our ambulance to

pick up the sick dog.

Mike was X-rayed and an eraser was
discovered in his stomach. An operation
was performed, the foreign body extracted,
and after a week’s care in our post-opera-
tive ward, he was sent home. Our payment
was the knowledge of a job well done and
the will to live which had been revived in
Mike’s owner.

An innovation during the year is a Sun-
day courtesy service in our Hospital. There
has always been one veterinarian on duty
for emergencies. But there are cases, not
classiﬁed as emergencies, where animals
need attention. When a number of our
friends complained they couldn’t get a pri-
vate veterinarian on Sunday, we added a
second doctor to partially relieve this situa-
tion. But remember this is a courtesy serv-
ice. That is why I use the word “partially.”

  

 

 




 

 

 

help by writing to the programs when you
see an offense against an animal. A simple
short letter from a consumer has very great
weight.

Inspections of poultry markets, pet shops,
stockyards and other places where animals
are kept, plus services to horses have num-
bered well over 50,000 since I ﬁrst became
President. During the past year the Humane
Work Department has been so busy two
Special Ofﬁcers have been added.

Cruelty at Horse Shows Decreases

The set of rules which the ASPCA was
successful in having accepted by the Ameri-
can Horse Shows Association has gone far
to eliminate cruel practices at horse shows.
Our agents cover all shows within a 65-mile
radius of New York City, turning in reports
on any cruelties noted. Similar reports are
made by show stewards, which they submit
to the American Horse Shows Association.
This double-check keeps would-be violators
on the alert. One of our officers recently told
me that in his forty-some years with the
Society horse shows have never been cleaner.
The Society’s constant vigilance is the rea-
son, I’m sure.

Our horse watering services continue to
be a God-send to the horses still remaining
in the city. Mobile unit-s have proved to be
the most practical means of carrying out
this function, and a new all-white tank-truck
will be around this coming summer to pro-
vide cool drinks for the thirsty.

Volunteers Build Public Relations

No organization can afford to be without
a well-organized and working volunteer di-
vision. I don’t think anyone can make that
statement with more authority or sincerity
than I. For the ASPCA has such a group of
women and I know what they can do. They
win friends and influence people: they man
booths, arrange our social affairs. They
make news, which in turn makes publicity.

26

They bring in new members and contrib-
utors. And, most important of all, they help
us build good public relations.

These volunteers—the Women’s Division,
under the leadership of Mrs. George Hay-
man — carried out a planned calendar of
events during the year: the Animal King-
dom Ball, the Dogs and Dolls Easter Parade,
Adopt-a-Cat Week, a booth at the West-
minster Kennel Club Show, a booth at the
National Horse Show, and one at the
Women’s International Exposition. Then
there is the Secor Farms Horse Show from
which we get the proceeds. These are used
for a scholarship to a worthy student of
veterinary medicine at Cornell University.

Thank you, ladies, for all you have done

and continue to do for the ASPCA.

Never in the history of the Society have
dues and donations been so high as during
the past year. There has been a substantial
increase in the number of both members
and contributors.

Our publicity has been nation-wide. Our
Medal of Honor Awards have been featured
in stories and editorials from coast to coast.
We were on the cover of Sports Illustrated
magazine. We have been mentioned favor-
ably in Life, Colliers, This Week, The Pet

Dealer and other national magazines.

A. Thom Brede, winner of Henry Bergh
Horsemanship Trophy for Juniors, donated
by Mrs. Mitzi Dréher Armstrong.

 

 




 

ANIMALS EXAMINED
AND TREATED IN
HOSPITAL

0005

CATS

0mm

 

 

 

 

ANIMAlS ADOPTED

DOGS -
CATS m
OTHERS “

Shelter Work

Licensing dogs

Pick-up of Unwanted Animals

Adoption Service

Collecting lost and
abandoned animals

74

 




   
   
 
 
   
   
   
   
   

 

   
   
   
   
   
 
   
   

'MANHATTAN

TRafalgar 6-7700
Main Office
Hospital

Shelter

Public Relations
PLaza 5-1650

 

BRONX
TYrone 2-8500

QUEENS

 

REpublic 9-4041

BROOKLYN
TRiangle 5-9580

STATEN ISLAND
Glbralter 7-0122

MANHATTAN
44l East 92nd St.

Bus—York Ave. to 9lst
St.

32:: 2:} to York Ave.

IRT transler at 96th
IND St. for bus

Public Relations
30 East 60th Street

 

BROOKLYN
233 Butler St.

BMT—Coney Island
trains to Paciﬁc St. or
Atlantic Ave.

lRT—to Nevins St.

IND—GG local to Ber-
gen St.

LIRR —— Flatbush Ave.
Term.

Bus—3rd Ave. to Butler
St.

 

 

BRONX
420 Morris Park Ave.

lRT—White Plains-24lst
St. or Bronx Pk.-East
l80tl1 St. train to West
Farms Square
Bus —- Tremont Ave. or
E. l80th St. to Morris
Park Ave.
Any bus with terminal
at West Farms Sq.

    

 

QUEENS
94-27 - l58th St.

IND—E and F trains to

Parsons Blvd.
LIRR—to Main Station
All Jamaica Buses

 

(BRONX cont'cl)

IND—transfer at Tremont
Ave. for bus

 

  

STATEN ISLAND
4 Willow Ave.

Bus—#2 to Pier 20
Tottenville Line — to

Clifton R.R. Station




 

 

 

EDITORIAL

CRUELTY 'I'O ANIMALS ON TV

It didn’t take talent-hungry television
long to discover the eye-appeal and enter-
tainment value of animals. Four-foots have
become a component part of dozens of shows
across the land.

The majority of these programs, such as
Zoo Parade and Lassie, are to be com-
mended for presenting animals in a manner
which encourages an understanding and
respect for their traits and characteristics.
Programs such as these do not need to be
reminded of the National Association of
Radio and Television Broadcasters’ code
which states: “The use of animals, both in
the production of television programs and
as a part of television program content shall
at all times be in conformity with accepted
standards of humane treatment.”

In a medium the size and scope of tele-
vision, however, there are always performers
and producers with a distorted sense of
humor—the anything-for-a-laugh boys. It
is these smart-alecks who think up such
offensive sights as an elephant on water skis,
a horse on roller skates, a staged ﬁght be-
tween wild animals, a rabbit being hypno-
tized. When the last-named stunt failed
because the rabbit refused to cooperate, the
hypnotist hit the animal harshly, adding
physical cruelty to peril.

Fortunately, such offenders are soon
caught up with. The general public won’t
tolerate the abuse of animals, as shown by

the protests which stream into the ASPCA
after each occurrence. In the meantime the
harm has been done, and the best we can
hope for is that there will not be a repetition
from the same source.

Thoughtlessness and lack of knowledge
about animals in the studios add to the total
of abuses, as a recent experience proves. In
this instance we heard of a proposal to
squirt ammonia into a dog’s face. When we
informed a program representative that this
solution could cause burns, this bit of cruelty
was prevented. The program representative
explained: “I regret to say that no one of
us was aware that the ammonia spray could
prove harmful to dogs.”

Frankly, we do not believe that any
amount of policing by humane societies
could eliminate such offenses entirely. The
inherent intricacies of the business, its geo-
graphical expanse, and the number of pro-
grams defy complete coverage.

We do believe that television, like radio
before it, is extremely sensitive to public
criticism; that in guarding its own interests
it will, in time, see to it that the highest
humane standards are maintained.

When abuses and mistreatment of ani-
mals on TV are reported to the Society,
each case is carefully investigated if the
program originates in New York where we
have jurisdiction. If there is a basis for
complaint, a protest letter is sent to the
producer and to the station.

However, viewers should not be content
to report it to the ASPCA only; as consu-
mers of the products advertised on TV they
wield a powerful inﬂuence and should pro-
test individually to the station and partic-
ularly to the sponsor of the program.

WWW

General Manager

 




FIGURES BEHINDTHE FACTS
For the Fiscal Year May lI 195510 April 30. I956

. TOTAL NUMBER or SERVICES RENDERED ”OSP'TAL SERV'CE
An1mals handled .......................................................... 266,006 Animals examined and treated:8
Animals handled in Shelters ............................................... 190,834
Animals Adopted ......................................................... 15,086
Animals examined or held for observation in bite cases
by Department of Health at Shelters ........................................ 45.163
Animals handled in Hospital and Clinic ...................................... 30:009
Inspection services by agents ................................................ 12,715
Special horse services ..................................................... 817 Days Of hospitalization """""""""""""""""""""
Alleged cruelty cases investigated ........................................... 4,981 HUMANE WORK
Dogs licensed in New York City ............................................ 273,695 Inspection Services:
Children, young people, and adults instructed in humane education ............... 24,314 Animal stores, pet shops, etc—to enforce humane treatment and sanitation
Animals Received: SHELTER SERVIZES 1 Poultry markets—to prevent overcrowding in crates, rough handling, etc.
In Shelters April 30, 1955 ........... 22:0 (10;; Other; T05t§l1 Private stables—to prevent over-riding and abuse through handling. . . .
Received for allocation . _ . . . , . ' . . ' - . _ ~ 1 _ __ 1 Public markets—to see that [horses standing at wagons are cared for .
Received for home adoptiOn ............ 13,617 5,174 257 19,048 Slaughter houses—to prevent cruel treatment and care for Sick or 1n-
Collected from streets ................. 7,619 2,224 215 10.058 Jured animals ................................. . ....... .. . . .
Unwanted animals called for ........... 17,940 45,282 1,042 64,264 StOCkYaI‘dS—to prevent cruel treatment and care for Sle or Injured
(representing 85,036 requests) /

animals
Water troughs—to insure sanitation ..............................

 

Lost and abandoned .................. 14 041 8 151 1 240 23 432 ' '
Delivered to Shelters .................. 207786 50983 1:681 739450 Inspection of laboratories ......................................

Totals ....................... 74,404 111,989 4,441 190,834

Animals Released: Special Horse Service's:

Restored to Owners ................... 4,771 194 108 5,073 Harnesses adjusted ............................................

:gocatlons ........................... 1,476 555 —— 2,031 Suspended from labor .........................................

R loptedl f d 11,198 3,091 797 15,086 Moved. in ambulances

Released to 3262-0111“ ................... —— — 95 95 Permanent horse watering fountains maintained ..................
e ease to e lca Stray Ward ......... 1,155 546 942 2,643 Summer horse watering fountains maintained .....................

Released to Department of Health ....... 586 135 20 741 Water Wagons '

Dled or humanely destroyed ............ 54,690 107,307 2,456 164,4532

In Shelters April 30, 1956 ............. 528 161 23 712

Totals ....................... 74,404 111,989 4,441 190,834 Legal Relatims:

Animals held in ASPCA isolation wards for observation by Department of Health . . . 6,531 Complaints 0f alleged cruelty received """""""""""""""""
Days Of observation involved Cruelty cases investigated, corrected without court action when possible.

Arrests made by Society .......................................
Convictions secured ...........................................
Dismissals of complaints .......................................
Fines imposed by court4 .......................................

51
45

6
$755

EDUCATIONAL ACTIVITIES

Children and adults attending classes at Main Ofﬁce 10 478
Teachers observing demonstrations ..................................... a622
SChOOIS and Other organizations using the Society’s visual aids ................... 216
Children and adults taught through use of these Visual aids .................... 12 102
Pieces Of Educational literature diStl‘ibUted ............................... 23,000 1. Among these animals were alligators, bears, chinchillas, goats, hamsters, monkeys, opossums, skunks,
Pet and animal Calendars distributed .............................. 219000 rabbits, raccoons, snakes, lambs, a ram, an ocelot, and an lglloana; also many varietles of blrds 1nclud:ing f:‘lbt-
DemOHStrations and discussions on television and radio """""""" 7 8 mg cocks, baby chlcks, duckllngs, owls, parrots, parakeets, plgeons, pheasants, sea gulls, swans, woo pec ers,
Pet shows sponsored or assisted iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii blue Jays and a heron. . _
Dog Obedience training courses iven ----------------------------- 20 2. Includes 137,714 anlmals humanely destroyed at the request of then owners. .
Peopk. redistered for C100 b d. g I i, """"""""""""""""""""""""" 8 3. Includes 3,034 animals received at the Medical Stray Ward needlng medlcal attentlon, or cases where

C C o e lence training courses ........................... 1,112 owners are CVICteda 1n hOSpltal or under arreSt-
Attendance at JUHiOI‘ Jamboree .............................................. 1,200 4. Fines belong to the City under statutes passed at the request of the Society.

30

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

   

mum

 

 
 

 

 

Do Cats Have Nine Lives?

by Norman H. Johnson, D.V.M.
ASPCA Hospital and Clinic

Nearly every day the ASPCA Hospital
treats a poisoned cat, a scalded cat or a cat
with a needle in its throat. Perhaps this is
because owners feel that cats can take care
of themselves. The fact is that cats need
supervision and attention as much as dogs,
birds or any other house pet.

Poisoning

Rat or roach powders and paint or paint
fumes are a danger to inquisitive cats. Keep
all cans closed and out of the pet’s reach.
If a cat should be poisoned, administer an
emetic such as egg white to induce vomiting
and rush the animal to a veterinarian.

Falls

It isn’t true that cats can fall from high
places and land uninjured. True, they can
right themselves in the air and land on their
feet, but a drop from a high window can
result in broken bones and internal injuries.
Keep your windows screened. If a cat
should fall, cradle it in a blanket, handling
as little as possible, and have your veterin-
arian examine it for broke-n bones.

Swallowing Sharp Obiects

One of the most frequent accidents in-
volving cats is swallowing foreign objects.
ASPCA Hospital has a collection of some
of these objects removed from the throat
and stomach of cats. Included are needles,
pins, keys, broaches, buttons, a rubber ball,
screws, a bottle cap and a whistle.

The answer is to keep your cat away from
the sewing basket, and pick up sharp things
from the floor as soon as they fall. Don’t

6

feed your pet chicken or ﬁsh bones. They
may splinter and stick in the throat.

Burns

Boiling water, coffee or soup can cause
severe burns. Make sure your cat is not under
foot if you’re carrying anything hot. To
prevent bad habits never let your cat jump
on the stove even if there’s nothing cooking.
Turn pot handles in and keep hot things
away from the edge of the table. Apply oil
or petroleum jelly to a mild burn. Have a
veterinarian treat a severe burn.

Automobile Accidents

Most pet cats 2in the city don’t go out of
doors. If yours does, never let it run free.
Keep it on a leash to avoid car accidents,
but be alert to prevent the cat from strangling
on the leash.

Strangling

Never tie a cat up and leave it unsuper-
vised. It might strangle itself. Collars or
ribbons around the neck are dangerous.
They can get caught in a tree or pulled
tight, thus choking the cat. Elastic collars
are better than leather ones, but one too
loose may entangle the mouth or foot. The
best arrangement is a collar that fits well
but will pull over the head in an emergency.

Never put a rubber band around a cat’s
neck. It can easily be forgotten and become
imbedded in the animal’s neck.

Bites

Rat and mice bites may plague city cats.
Snake bites may poison country cats. Also
bites from other cats or dogs can be a
danger. Wash a bite thoroughly with a mild
antiseptic such as ST—37. If an abcess de-
velops see a veterinarian.

Cats need plenty of vigilance to prevent
their becoming imprisoned in closets,
drawers, trunks, trees or between walls; or
catching their heads in empty cans or
bottles; or having their families in inacces-
sible places. You’ve got to be one jump
ahead of your pet. For cats, contrary to the
popular jest, have only one life.

 




 

 

Prrr — — ty Puss y

N 1947 Walter Chandoha found a cat in the snow and took it in. Its
antics drove Mr. Chandoha, then an amateur lens fan, to action.

The results were so good he made more cat pictures. And more. Now
it’s a big business.

Three books and hundreds of cats later Mr. Chandoha is still using
his cunning devices to cajole and deceive his furry models into off-
guard poses in his studio home in Huntington, Long Island.

His latest collection of photogenic felines, “The, Complete Book of
Cats,” was just published by Maco.

Following his ﬁrst book “All Kinds of Cats,” published by Alfred
A. Knopf, he did. “All Kinds of Dogs.” Says Mr. Chandoha: “After

trying to outsmart cats, I ﬁnd dogs are a cinch.”

 




 

 

Why New Equipment

We have tried to make do with the
equipment we had, but there comes a
time . . .

When it became apparent that a new
watering truck was a necessity, we de-
cided it was going to be the most prac-
tical as well as the most attractive
mobile unit to serve the purpose. The
design was originated by Mr. McSpad-
den, General Manager, and the con-
struction carried out under his super-
vision.

The Chevrolet truck, with reinforced
springs and oversized tires to carry the
weight load, is equipped with a spe-
cially-constructed removable cypress
barrel, which will carry 300 gallons
of water all day with practically no
rise in temperature. Cypress was chosen
because it doesn’t ﬂavor the water.

The rear of the barrel, which is siX
feet long and four feet in diameter is
a trough, containing a mild disinfec-
tant, in which the pail is rinsed after

each drink.

The over-all job is white, with the
barrel and lettering in bright red. No,
you can’t miss it -— and it misses no
horses.

 




 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

     
    
   
  
    
  
 
 
    
  
 
 
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
    

Hospital's new treatment room

Treatment Room Equipped

As our Hospital load increased we more
and more felt the need of a treatment room.
By converting space infrequently used, we
now have this needed treatment room which
beneﬁts 40 to 50 animals daily. It is in
constant use and frees operating rooms for
the purpose for which they were intended.

I would like to- thank those of you who
have contributed new pieces of equipment
for the room. One piece has turned out liter-
ally to be a life-saver. That is a resuscitator
given to us by a member and friend who
lives in far-off Michigan. It was given in
memory of her mother. This instrument can,
and has, actually revived breathing in a
dying animal. During its ﬁrst week in use it
saved the live-s of at least three dogs. We
wonder now what we ever did without it.

Diagnostic Laboratory Set Up

For years we kept no case histories
of the many unusual discoveries made about
animal diseases. Therefore, there was no
means of comparison — no references ——
when similar cases developed.

The ﬁrst step taken to overcome this situa-
tion occurred about two years ago when
each cage in the Hospital was equipped
with a record holder. A description of the
occupant’s disease and type of treatment,
with the name of the doctor diagnosing the
case, is slipped into this holder. A running
record is kept from the time the patient
enters until it is discharged. This is then
ﬁled for future reference.

More recently we have taken the second

step and a highly important one. An ex-
perienced laboratory technician has been
added to our Hospital staff who, in addition
to her analytical duties, is collating refer-
ence data for day to day application in our
working laboratory.

Under the provisions of the Metcalf-
Hatch Law animals were requisitioned by 12
laboratories during the year —- 1,476 dogs
and 555 cats. This makes a total of 2,031
animal-s requisitioned from our S-he-lters.* At
the same time we humanely destroyed
164,453. Of these, 137,714 were put to sleep

at the request of their owners.

Record 15,000 Animals Adopted

One of the principal functions of any
humane organization is to place as many
animals as possible in good homes. At the
last annual meeting it seemed remarkable
to be able to report that we had made 11,842
adoptions. Now along comes a new and even
more startling record — 15,086 for the past
twelve months. Up to four or ﬁve years ago
we averaged about 6,000, so we have almost
trebled our adoptions.

I’d like to comment particularly on the
rise in cat adoptions. There were 3,091 this
year in contrast to 2,364 last year.

Too many humane societies tend to give
cats a back seat. Unwittingly, of course.
And, I regret to say that the ASPCA was no
exception. You notice 1 say “was,” for sud-
denly we became conscious of the continu-
ing slump in cat adoptions. After a serious

 

*Laboratories Dogs Cats
Cornell University Medical College 342 519
New York State University

 

Medical College _______ _, ................... 584 23
Jewish Chronic Disease Hospitla .......... 186 8
Monteﬁore Hospital ________________________________ 72 5
Maimonides Hospital _____________________________ 74 0
Queens General Hospital ........................ 25 0
St. Vincent’s Hospital _______________________ 38 0
Sloan-Kettering Institute for

Cancer Research . _______________________________ 111 0
U. S. Naval Hospital ______________________________ 15 0
Veteran’s Administration Hospital ........ 20 0
Wycoff Heights Hospital

Society of Brooklyn ............................ 5 0
Jewish Memorial Hospital ...................... 4 0

1,476 555

{\9
OJ

  




 

 

 

A half-hour nation-wide television pro-
gram “Let’s Take A Trip” set forth the
varied facets of our work. Our animals have
been shown and our story told on more than

100 TV programs.

Our scrapbook contains thousands of
newspaper clippings for the year—— and, as
everyone who uses a clipping service knows,
the stories clipped never indicate entire
coverage. Based on those we have received,
we’ve averaged better than a column a day
and ﬁve pictures a week—a startling amount
of publicity for any local organization.

Youth Programs Expanded

All this indicates we are building toward
a stable future. But we must never forget
that the future doesn’t take care of itself
automatically. The children of today are the
grown-ups of tomorrow. To imbue them with
the spirit of kindness while they are young
is to lay the foundation of our membership
in the years to come. This is the function of
the Education Department.

Active participation with live animals in

TV's Jean Martin caresses lamb adopted at
Dogs and Dolls Parade, held by Women's
Division to beneﬁt our Adoption Service.

 

 

 

TV show ”Let’s Take A Trip” visits ASPCA.

our classroom is a principal feature of our
youth program. Birds from various parts of
the world, two parrots, a rabbit, white mice,
a hooded rat, aquariums, a cat, a dog, ham-
sters, parakeets and guinea pigs are the
living tools with which we bring home the
lessons of understanding and kindness.

Last year more than 11,000 children vis-
ited this classroom and toured the Manhat-
tan Shelter. Our junior members and group
members, including Boy Scouts, Girl Scouts

and Camp Fire Girls total about 6,500.

One of these 6,500 youngsters may very
well be standing here giving the annual
report in the years to come.

Humane Slaughter Legislation

For years the ASPCA and other leading
humane organizations have worked toward
a solution for the humane slaughtering of
food animals.

You have all received a pamphlet, re-
questing you to write to certain key ﬁgures
in government urging the passage of two
bills now before the Congress. One is Senate
bill 1636 introduced by Senator Hubert H.
Humphrey of Minnesota; the other, a bill in
the House of Representatives, 9603, was in-
troduced by Congressman Edgar W. Hie-
stand.

27

 




 

 

 

a. w
/ = ~ \§
.-’_ /’" 0
/
(\f\f\ AAA r\{'\ '

Chimp Scores Highest IQ

A zoologist investigating the possible rea-
soning power of animals lists the ten most
intelligent animals in the world today. Taking
intelligence to mean original thought, mem-
ory, reasoning power, imitativeness and
capacity for training, he has found the
chimpanzee the most intelligent. The other
nine follow in this order: orang-utan, ele-
phant, gorilla, domestic dog, beaver, domes-
tic horse, sea-lion, bear and domestic cat.

All Alone by the Telephone
CLEVELAND —— Two lonely dachshunds

whose owner was away at work all day
protested by howling. When neighbors com-
plained the owner solved the problem by
“calling up” the dogs on the telephone. The
occasional ring reassured the animals that
they were not being overlooked. Now they
are quiet all day.

Dying Deer Shoots Hunter
NEVADA P'— A deer got his ﬁrst man.

The man was hunting when he shot a buck.
He went to the animal, placed his loaded
rifle on a rock, and started to cut the deer’s
throat. The buck gave one ﬁnal kick, hit
the rifle . . . and bang. . . down went the
hunter with a bullet in his knee.

Happy Holiday for Five Cats
LOS ANGELES —— The night before a

holiday a woman roasted a turkey for ex-
pected company. She left it on the drain-

14

board overnight. The woman has ﬁve cats.
End of turkey. End of story.

Horse Heaven
KENTUCKY — A judge here set aside a

will leaving several thousand dollars for the
care of miserable horses. A search, he said,
failed to turn up even one unhappy horse
in Kentucky.

A Mouse Among Men
GERMANY — Oscar, the mouse-mascot

of an airborne group here, has made ﬁve
jumps and has won his paratrooper wings.

Blissful Bovines
NORTH CAROLINA — A farmer here

believes his cows are among the world’s
most contented. The cowbarn is surrounded
by a white picket fence, bordered by ﬂowers,
and soft music ﬁlls the air from a number
of speakers. There has been no noticeable
increase in milk output.

Controls Sex of Chicks
WASHINGTON -—— A New Jersey inventor

was awarded a patent for his discovery of
a way to control the sex of chicks so that
a farmer can hatch either all males or all
females as desired.

To control the sex, a batch of fertilized
eggs, either before or during incubation, is
partially dipped into a bath of either the
male or female hormone for ﬁve seconds.

 

 

The hormone then enters the egg shell pores
and acts upon the embryo during the entire
development period.

Bloodhound Loses Himself
WINDSOR, Conn.—-—A bloodhound which

couldn’t, or wouldn’t, track its way to its
own home was brought to police head-
quarters by a man who found it sitting on
his doorstep. A newspaper printed its pic-
ture on the front page and about 4 am. a
Hartford policeman saw the picture and
called Windsor police. It was his dog.

Escaped Lion Returns to Cage
MEMPHIS —- A circus lion made a dash

for freedom from the city auditorium but
apparently miserable after 10 minutes in a
soaking rain, it broke a glass door to get

back inside the building.

Can Your Dog Read?
WASHINGTON — A prominent editor

said in a recent speech here, “The black-
printed newspaper overlooks one fact. The
reader sees things in color. A dog sees
things in the gray scale. Today we print
newspapers for dogs to see. Tomorrow, may-
be, we will print them for people.”

Dog Pays Off Debt
COLUMBUS, Ohio — Back in 1952 Spats

was a hungry, whimpering Labrador re-
triever puppy, abandoned near Pittsburgh.
Today he’s the proud pilot dog for his blind

mistress, the same woman who had 20-20
Vision and was in the profession of dog-
trimmer, with French poodles a specialty,
when she found the stranded pup. Two
months after she found Spats here eyes began
.to fail because of a diabetic condition. Now
Spats is her “seeing-eye.”

Penguin “Umpires” Ball Game

WASHINGTON —— Even a penguin in the
frigid antarctic has caught the baseball fever,
according to a writer who accompanied Rear
Adm. Richard E. Byrd on operation “Deep
Freeze.” One inquisitive penguin wandered
over during a soft-ball game expedition
members staged on the smooth ice alongside
the icebreaker Glacier. He soon found the
most advantageous spot possible to watch
the game — immediately behind the pitcher.
Then he waved his flippers and craned his
neck, exactly as if he were calling balls and
strikes in a big league game.

Just a Mutt, But .
MADISON, Wis. —— A 10-year-old boy

returned from school and found his mother
lying on the kitchen floor surrounded by
cupcakes she’d planned to bake. Bobby,
whose father died when he was a baby,
got his mother to a hospital. While he was
with her there his dog was picked up as a
stray.

Then his mother died of a heart ailment.
The next day ofﬁcials returned Bobby’s dog
and thus gave back a small share of what
the world had taken away.

15

 

 




 

 

Bequests

Lillian Stager Blum
Minnie R. Calvin

Lisa Maria Cobb

Edna L. Compton

Alida Lansing Conover
Haidee Madeline Eidner
Dorothy E. Fogarty
Lucy T. Hagen

Pearl Klaus
Payne P. Larsen
Joseph E. Lopez

George L. Hudson

Lulu S. McCurdy
Florence L. Merritt
Helen W. D. Mileham
Evelyn T. D. Morley

Lorette M. Powers
Margaret P. Sherwood
Antoinette R. Von Belli
Marie E. Weiss

Sylvia A. H. G. Wilks
Isabel T. Winans
Jessie F. Woodhouse

Trust Funds

A. Maude Oakley

Elsie Z. Graham

50 Year Member

Mrs. Shelton E.

Martin

25 Year Members

Miss Anna R. Alexandre
Miss Julia A. Berwind
Mr. Vernon H. Brown
Mrs. W. Gibson Carey
Mrs. Dora Carroll.
Mrs. P. A. Carroll
Pierre C. Cartier
Henry A. Colgate

Mrs. Edgar M. Cullman
Mrs. Orvil E. Dryfoos
Mrs. August Funke
Mrs. Paul E. Gardner
Mrs. J. B. Haggin

Henry Krumb

Mrs. J. R. Oxley

Miss Irene Harrington
Mrs. F. Leslie Hayford
Mrs. W. Thorn Kissel

Mrs. Percival Kuttroﬁ
Mrs. John Lavalle

Miss Marion Litchﬁeld
Miss Florence Mclndo
Mrs. H. McKenna
Harold J. Mostyn

Miss Olivia J. Norris
Mrs. Arthur D. Osborne

Mrs. John M. Perry

Curt H. Reisinger

Mrs. W. P. Robbins

Mrs. Caroline Schneider
Mrs. Ethel Ahrens Schulz
Mrs. Carolyn Dean Smellie
Mrs. Luella G. Smith
Miss Myra Valentine
Mrs. R. H. Stettig

Miss Ella Van Steenburgh
Miss Edna A. Wood

Miss Jean S. Work

Special Agents

The following agents investigate cases of cruelty to animals throughout New York City:

WILLIAM RYAN
WALTER A. HILLSINGER
JOHN F. JOULE
RAYMOND J. MULLIGAN
ALFRED J. D’ALESSIO

JOHN STITZEL

HARRY J. CONNOLLY
VINCENT J. PATTERSON

ROBERT P. HAMMATT
JOSEPH C. SCHLESINGER

THOMAS J. MORTON
VICTOR E. BALLUFF
HOWARD J. DUPUIS
GEORGE BAUER

The Society is represented throughout the State of New York by these special agents:

MONROE D. RAY, Belmont, Allegheny
CHARLES PEARSON, JR., Buffalo, Erie
WILLIAM C. SULLIVAN, Buffalo, Erie

FRANK C. TRUBEE, JR., Buﬂalo, Erie
ADOLPH SCHAEFER, Catskill, Greene
WILLIAM J. BOYINK, Rochester, Monroe
JAMES H. CRUIKSHANK, Freeport, Nassau
ERNEST J. REYNOLDS, Niagara Falls, Niagara

G. M. UPTEGRAFF, Lockport, Niagara

MICHAEL DONOHUE, Newburgh, Orange

FRANK G. HOWARTH, St. George, Richmond
SHERMAN F. WICKS, Patchogue, Suﬂolk

RAY WINNE, Kingston, Ulster

THELMA S. ZWIRNER, Briarcliﬂ Manor, Westchester
CARL STOHR, Ardsley, Westchester

CHARLES M. BARBER, Port Chester, Westchester

 




 

 

 

ASPCA

 

 

 

 

 

INDEX

Cruelty to Animals on TV
The Forgotten Ones

Felis Regina

Do Cats Have Nine Lives?
Catty Remarks .

Humane Slaughter Legislation
Remington Invention Wins Hopkins Award
Prr—Prr—Prrr—ty Pussy
ASPCA Goes to a Picnic .
Animal Antics

Our Hospital Needs

One Bull Is Too Many

First Scholarship Awarded
New Horsewatering Truck

Our New President

Annual Report
Highlights of the Year . . . . . . . . 22
ASPCA Committees . . . . . . . . . 29
Figures Behind the Facts . . . . . . . . 30
Meet Our Staft . . . . . . . . . . 32
Staff in Service . . . . . . . . . . 34
Condensed Statement . . . . . . . . 36
Form of Bequest . . . . . . . . . . 39
You Can Help the ASPCA . . . . . . . 40
ASPCA Covers New York City . . Inside Back Cover

The American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty

v

Lerman Printing Co., N.Y.C.

 




Joseph Aronzullo
Chauffeur

 

Alfred Kommel

Kennelman

MEET
OUR STAFF . .

1

 

 

Mp0»)...

54.43541“
(M~.«.4.r,_«u.u~. ‘
‘ N\‘ no m “X at:

”M; «r

 

 

 

 

we
3
‘5 {v

"W‘RK-lk‘xﬁeﬁﬂﬁmi

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

‘1'.“thme

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

3 l E M
if 25‘ g l»

 

 

 

$

 

.. . . v.15

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

‘“" ”whim m. ’ ways-mm». i-m A An- 4-“?
ASPCA s nu n-bers-r-‘quuﬂ-"n’n
--~....m.,m..rm9vrpm§n who perform a variety of jobs.

w t... W
r .er'wmv WMW-n-xmw. r

 

 

 

We fkiiimgm‘a‘smmrzr"eitiéwml; ‘ etermﬂﬂanﬁ

teacher's, humane agents, clerks, chauffeurs,
kennelmen, secretaries, mechanics, license
inspectors and attendants . . . all dedicated
to preventing cruelty and ministering to
the needs of sick, injured and homeless
animals.

Nearly 100 have been with the Society
ﬁve years or longer; 20 have been em-
ployed over 25 years.

Our 1955-56 payroll totaled $805,716.32
or 60 percent of ASPCA’s total expenses.
Employee beneﬁts include:

' A retirement plan

° Life insurance equivalent to a year’s
salary

 

“Agntes Riddell
Chi?f Clerk, Hospital

.3 3W

~r'“w‘“VAW'szW
W‘E—qu
- 3W .1. ‘- Wm».
an ,.w‘*‘wm¢x MW.
”X"‘M Wm“... ”it“? P3309.“ ‘
‘W w W
‘ g
“Mira;
. /_ [3.3%

.mg

”3%?
\

owzoz-cw'lwlymmmmag

\
”WW... .wm twanwwml
’ .

- -. , . . . u “.1”... '1‘;’.'.V0WNWKN nu,

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

- uv.‘ ;.

 

 

 

 

Social Security (from which the ASPCA
could be exempt)

Blue Cross and Blue Shield Plans
Accident and health insurance
Workmen’s compensation insurance

2 weeks vacation, 3 weeks after 5 years.
4 weeks after 20 years

11 paid holidays
5-day, 40-hour week

An Employees’ Central Council to confer

with management- Victor E. Balluﬁ

Pictured here are representatives who SPeCia’ A99"f
deal with the public in varying capacities.

 

 

 

 




 

(
‘

 

CATTY
REMARKS

F If man could be crossed with the cat, it
would improve man, but it would deteriorate

the Gat- —MARK TWAIN

F The only trouble with a kitten is that
eventually it becomes a cat.
-——OGDEN NASH

F A cat is a strange and variable animal,
whose reasons for doing anything are quite
beyond the comprehension of mere human
bemgs’ ——BRITISH COUNTY COURT
F Cats aren’t feminine. They are red-
blooded, rip-roaring chunks of 100 percent

masculinity. ———JAMES P. CARROLL

F What’s virtue in man can’t be Vice in a

cat. —MARY ABIGAIL DODGE

F Who is to hell the cat? It is easy to
propose impossible remedies.
——AESOP

F When I play with my cat, who knows
whether I do not make her more sport than
she makes me? ——MONTAIGNE

F A house without either a dog or a cat is
the house of a scoundrel.
—P0RTUGUESE PROVERB

 

Walter Chandoha

F You can’t beat cats for company. You
don’t have to knock yourself out throwing
sticks for them to retrieve.

—BETTY HUTTON

F Cat: a pygmy lion who loves mice, hates
dogs and patronizes human beings.

—OLIVER HERFORD

F A home without a cat, and a well-fed,
well-petted and properly revered cat, may
be a perfect home, but how can it prove

its title?
——MARK TWAIN

F Cats interest me because they have the
qualities I like best in people—courage,
dignity, independence, the ability to amuse
themselves, combined precision, silence and
economy of movement, and that rare and
marvelous virtue, a taste for the diﬂicult.

——SOPH1E KERR

F My opinion is, and will continue to be,
that the old fashioned calico-colored cat is
the best breed for a man of moderate means
who ain’t got but little money to put into cats.

—JOSH BILLINGS

 




 




 

 

 

This instrument measures the

particular substance in a solution

color. A photo-electric cell passes a be.
light through the solution, producing
spectrum of the rainbow and recording the
exact amount of substance in the tested solu-
tion on a calibrated scale.

This spectro-chemical analysis enables the
doctor to determine, for instance, whether
there is too much sugar in the blood (as in
diabetes), too much urea (as in kidney fail-
ure), or too low a level of hemoglobin (as
in anemia).

With this instrument, results can be obtained
in about 445 minutes, rather than the 4 or 5
days now required when specimens are sent
to outside commercial laboratories.

Very often a ﬁve day wait can mean death,
whereas an immediate diagnosis could bring
the correct treatment and life.

Won’t you save a life by contributing toward
the spectrophotometer!

$446

 

 

 




/

.‘* up: \ ‘
I l
. \~

1‘45}:

/////}///

a
\ ~ 0

The author and pet Marmoset

OGS are our best friends; cats are our
best allies, for without them the rats
and mice might well have taken over long
ago. For more than a century our homes
have been cheered by the exuberant trilling
of canaries, and today some millions of
apartments and houses ring to the high-
pitched chatter of the colorful little Grass-
Parakeet or Budgerigar‘. These are our pets,
to the best of popular belief. But this is by
no means all of the story: there are also the
forgotten ones, some millions of them.

In this considerably lenlightened age we
have learned to treat our pets not only with
consideration and kindness but also much as
we do our own kind. We spend enormous
sums of money to feed them—more dog and
cat food is sold per annum than all cereals
for human consumption combined. We care
for them in sickness and in health, although
there is still much to be done on the former
score. Some of us——~and most notably the
ASPCA — have banded together to create a
sort of social security. system for our pets
to care for the destitute and the homeless
and the aged. And of course the greatest
part of all this endeavor is directed towards
dogs and cats, and almost all the rest to
canaries and now budgerigars. This is as it
should be, for they are in the vast majority,
but our efforts are in grave danger of be-
coming overwhelmingly so directed.

2

. \ , \
\\\\\\\\
\ \.s,‘\\\\\\. \\

.. _ \\ ‘
\w

\

 

Ivan T. Sanderson, known as the
Ambassador to the Animal Kingdom,
is a noted author, lecturer, scientist,
naturalist and animal collector. His
latest book “Living Mammals of the
World" was recently published by
Hanover House.

 

 

 

There are living in our homes in this great
nation, and for the most part in city apart-
ments and suburban homesteads, several
million other assorted pet animals, and I do
not include the literally billions of tropical
and other small ﬁsh kept in living-room
tanks or the aquaria of the fanciers. Few
people would believe, for instance, that one
survey showed over twenty thousand young.
deodorized skunks were sold as pets in one
year, or that at least a quarter of the hun-
dred thousand odd monkeys imported an-
nually go into the retail market and are
sold for the most part as private pets. If the
average person who has a natural antipathy
to snakes knew how many were living within
a radius of where he sits reading this he
would probably suffer a heart attack.

Apartment House Zoo

I knew one apartment house that housed
two hundred and ten humans, forty-ﬁve dogs
and cats, and one hundred and twenty-two
other animals. These included troupial birds.
some dozen budgerigars, a monkey, a ma-
caw, a kinkajou, several white mice and
hamsters, two tortoises, and an Emerald
Tree-Boa snake, in residence for six years.

Some people have been found keeping the
most extraordinary pets in small city homes;
these include full-grown lions, bears, llamas,
kangaroos, and even a sealion. This practice

 

\ it - was ‘
\ \ v e orgotten nes
“3.x“ '. \

by Ivan T. Sanderson

\‘“§ \.

‘ \\ \\ \* --~\
.\\\\

is to be heartily condemned since large ani-
mals cannot obtain the necessary exercise,
must of necessity create unsanitary condi-
tions, and eventually become a menace to
others. However, there are a vast number of
wonderful and cleanly little animals that are
customarily kept as domestic pets in other
countries and which are much better off in
happy private homes than in the best of
zoos and public collections.

Among these are ﬁrst and foremost many
kinds of Marmosets from South America
which are now so popular and so easy to
keep if one only knows that they need a diet
as varied as ours, and much personal affec-
tion. I have a friend who has bred the
seventh generation of one species in his
apartment. Then there are the cuddly kinka-
jous, the beautiful spotted genets, which
were the ﬁrst mousers and which are still
kept in many Mediterranean homes; the
gentle, silent Lemurs which, alas, can no
longer be obtained though for very good
reasons of conservation; the tiny ‘Gogos’ or
Bushbabies from Africa that have also bred
in New York, and countless others.

Cage birds come in an almost endless
variety of sizes and forms, from gay parrots
and crazy toucans to tiny, ﬁnger-sized
ﬁnches, that lived and bred in my bedroom
for seven years and raised family after fam-
ily in a shoe-box.

s?

\\ __ _,...._._._-;;;;:?3

\\\\\

Then there are the queer pets. The
strangest of all of these must be ants. This
may both amaze and puzzle almost every-
body and there may be those who would
condemn the practice out of hand. But
wait! Have you ever considered the number
of conﬁned and bedridden people and espe-
cially the kids in hospitals or more tragically
in permanent institutions; kids so young
that often they can not yet derive even little
pleasures by reading? If you have, and you
want to give them a real present, something
that will take their minds into another world
of wonder, give them a little ants’ nest
housed in a frame-like device between two
sealed glass plates.

Ants as Pets

But can we really call caged ants pets? I
personally think we should, for they, like all
the hosts of dogs and cats, and all the other
forgotten ones bring endless joy into the
lives of their owners, and what is more im-
portant, they above all other things can dispel
that most terrible of curses—loneliness.

Let us, therefore, not forget these count-
less other ones nor deny them the care and
consideration we give our dogs and cats. Let
us not forget that'they form our last link
with the great world of Nature and that
some of them have been living in the homes
of men since even before the ﬁrst dog or cat.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Humane Slaughter Legislation
(Continued from Page 8)

This means we are not much better off
than we have been for the past 20 to 25
years. During this period we have watched
study groups come and go, and still no
mandatory legislation.

However, there is one statement in the
Act as passed which is most encouraging.
For the ﬁrst time it puts Congress on record
in declaring that its policy will be “to en-
courage acceptance and use of such (hu-
mane) methods by slaughterers, to the end
that livestock and poultry shall be slaughter-
ed only by humane methods.”

But such a watered-down version is not.
acceptable to the ASPCA. We shall con-
tinue to ﬁght for a real humane slaughter
law when Congress meets again, when we
feel certain that the information campaign
already waged will pay off.

On the Brighter Side

The public is now pretty well informed
about present sad conditions in the majority
of packing plants, thanks to pamphlets like
“Write off Cruelty by Supporting Humane
Slaughter Legislation” sent out by the
ASPCA and similar material prepared by
other humane organizations. Americans
don’t like cruelty and they have so informed
their representatives. Legislators say no
other subject in the last session of Congress
prompted such voluminous stacks of favor-
able mail.

Newspapers, too, got on the bandwagon
with splendid editorials. A number of these
editorials were based on a fact sheet pre-
pared and sent by the ASPCA to every daliy
newspaper throughout the country, as well
as the major weekly papers.

The information sent described present
inhumane methods of slaughtering cattle,
hogs, sheep, lambs, calves and poultry. It
also described the humane methods now
available, but used by only 15 out of 3,217
packers. The captive bolt pistol and the

20

Remington Humane Stunner for cattle,
anesthetization by carbon dioxide for hogs,
and an electric knife for poultry all will
render an animal unconscious in a matter of
seconds, suffering no pain while being

killed.

Humane Methods Available

Packers who have converted to the new
methods have demonstrated that they are
practical and that there is a substantial sav-
ing in less damage to meat, less turnover
in personnel and fewer employee compen-
sation cases. However, even in the face
of this evidence, it is all too clear that the
majority of packers will never convert to
humane methods unless forced to by law.

United States citizens eat more meat per
capita than in any other country—1611/2
pounds of meat a year per person. Yet this
country, a symbol of industrial and social
progress, lags far behind the rest of the
world in humane slaughter legislation.
Countries from Finland to Fiji have enacted
laws calling for mandatory humane methods.

It’s time America did something for the
120 million animals and 200 million poultry
slaughtered each year for our tables. Let’s
make that time speciﬁc —— let’s get humane
slaughter legislation through during the next
session of Congress.

Begin NOW by:

' Writing your views to Representative
Harold D. Cooley, Chairman of the House
Committee on Agriculture, House Office

Building, Washington, D. C.

° Seeing your Senators and Congressmen
while they are at home.

° Continuing to send letters to newspaper
editors on the subject.

' Discussing need for Humane Slaughter
Legislation with friends, neighbors, clubs,
church groups, etc.

° Pledging your support to write Congres-
sional leaders again when the time comes.

We will let you know WHEN.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

study of the situation, we concluded that cats
for adoption were not being displayed in the
most attractive fashion. They were in in-
dividual cages which failed to show them
off properly.

So, we went to work. We set up, in our
Manhattan Shelter, a colony Cat Adoption
Ward, which I described last year. Lo and
behold, our cat adoption ﬁgures began to
rise immediately.

This excellent experience has led the
Board to approve a new Cat Adoption Ward
for Brooklyn. It will be a separate red
brick building, adjoining the Shelter, and
will generally resemble a solarium. As a
matter of fact “feline solarium” is exactly

the phrase used by the architect on his
sketch.

As funds permit we expect to set up
similar wards in Queens and Staten Island.
The new building in the Bronx does contain
such 'a ward.

Bronx Shelter to House 800

The present Bronx Shelter has long since
outgrown its capacity for housing animals.

Youngsters look over the kitten supply
during ASPCA's Adopt-a-Cat Week last April.

 

Enlarging it would have been unwise from
both a functional and a ﬁnancial point of

view. The expenditure of $350,000 for a

new Shelter was the only solution.

This new building is just about com-
pleted. What was, a year ago, a rocky, hilly,
neglected plot of ground is now the site of
a beautiful red and white brick home for
animals. Built in split-level fashion, it is
ﬁve times the size of the old Shelter and
can house 800 or more animals.

Out-standing display features are lobby
kennels of dogs and cats for adoption; light,
airy quarters and large exercise runs. Your
wonderful support has provided another
well-equipped Shelter for animals.

The old building will be retained as a
repair and work shop. We do most of our
own repairs and construct much of our
equipment. Many of our needs are so spe-
cialized that it is much less costly to make
them ourselves than a custom job on the
outside would be. There are some pretty
versatile members on our staff who can not
only carry out ideas but create them as well.

Queens and Richmond
Shelters Improved

It was just a brief year ago that we com-
pleted a major rebuilding of our Shelter
in the great and growing Borough of Queens.
Capacity was more than doubled; the in-
stallation of modern equipment lightened
the work-load for employees; and conditions
for animals were generally improved.

Let me assure you that the latter is al-
ways the reason for any building we may
do —— to improve the care and comfort of
animal-s.

Take the slight improvement we are plan-
ning to make in the Staten Island Shelter
in the Borough of Richmond. This little
Shelter, built in the mid-thirties, is a jewel.
We have not had to spend a great deal
of money on this Shelter. Its need this year
is comparatively simple: a new awning for

 




 

 

 

 

~ﬁ-...n

11,000 youngsters visited us, meeting live
animals in the classroom.

It is with great enthusiasm that the Soci-
ety’s Board, in addition to all of its mem-
bers, gives support to both these bills.

ASPCA to Take Over in Glen Cove

In all of its 90 years the ASPCA has
confined its humane activities to the ﬁve
Boroughs of New York City. We are about
to break with that tradition.

At the invitation of the Mayor of Glen
Cove, Long Island, we’re going out to that
City to take over its animal problems, at
least for a ﬁve-year period, the length of the
contract we’ve signed.

A Shelter will be set up in a centrally
located available garage. This should not
take long, and by summer we expect to be
ready for operation.

Animalport Planned for N. Y. Airport

Perhaps I’m jumping the gun a bit to
make the following announcement.

There’s no contract signed as yet, but our
expectation is to build an Animalport at one
of the large New York airports. Thousands
of animals travel by air annually. They must
be fed and watered, attended when ill.

The ASPCA expects to do the job. It’s

28

much to soon for details, but I couldn’t
resist letting you in on the plan, before a
public announcement is made—sometime
within the next several months.

Million Animals Cured for in Four Years

May I say that my four years as presi-
dent have been packed with rich experience.
There have been times of trouble and times
of sadness, such as the passing of our be-
loved Sydney H. Coleman. But generally
speaking it has been a rewarding period.
The scope of our activities has broadened
considerably. Our building program has
been extensive. Our Hospital has become the
greatest in the land. In themselves these ac-
complishments mean little until they are re-
lated to animals —— their health, their care,
their protection. It is for them that The
American Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals exists. It was to serve
them that I assumed this job. And, as I look
back on it in the future, the most satisfying
memory will always be that of the more
than a million cats, dogs and other members
of the animal kingdom which the ASPCA

cared for during the past four years.

The credit for their care, for their cures
and for their general welfare goes to the
dedicated staff I was fortunate enough to
inherit. They have stood by me, as well as
the animals, have taken my hand when I
needed guidance and have helped me solve
our mutual problems. The allegiance of a
loyal members-hip and an able and hard-
working Board of Managers when the going
was tough helped us weather the storm.

May I say to all of you that I shall
remain on the Board as long as it wants
my services; that in my thoughts and by my
deeds I will continue to help the greatest
organization I know — The American So-
ciety for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals.

 




 

FORM OF REQUEST

I give and bequeath unto “The American Society for
the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals,” a corporation
under and by Virtue of the laws of the State of New
York, having its principal ofﬁce at 441 East 92 Street,
New York, N. Y., the sum of ................ dollars or all
of my right, title and interest in and to ....................
(description of property) together with the buildings

and impovements thereon.

 

 




STAFF IN SERVICE FIVE

YEARS

OR MORE

YEARS OF YEARS OF

 

1.4
0

NAME BOROUGH

. WILLIAM RYAN ................ Manhattan
. THOMAS J. FLYNN ............. Brooklyn

DR. RAYMOND J. GARBUTT ...... Manhattan

. CHARLES J. LEONARD .......... Queens

MARY ROBBINS BOLAND ....... Brooklyn

. AGNES J. RIDDELL ............. Manhattan
. JAMES J. MCKENNA ............ Brooklyn

. WALTER A. HILLSINGER ........ Queens

. FREDERICK R. GRASSICK ........ Brooklyn
. JOHN F. JOULE ............... Brooklyn

. HENRY F. KLEBBE ............. Manhattan
. GERTRUDE E. JOHNSON ......... Manhattan
. WILLIAM SIMS ................ Manhattan
. R. W. ALLEN .................. Manhattan

. ROBERT B. FERRIS .............. Queens
. STEPHEN DUNN ............... Brooklyn

. N. MICHAEL BROMLEY ......... Bronx

. R. J. MULLIGAN ............... Bronx
. ALFRED WERTHMILLER .......... Brooklyn
. HENRY KOPPELMANN ........... Manhattan

. THOMAS A. BARNSHAW ......... Manhattan
. FREDERICK L. KUSTERBECK ...... Queens

. CHARLES R. WADSLEY .......... Brooklyn
. PATRICK J. SUTTON ............ Manhattan
. JAMES T. DIBBLE .............. Queens

. CARMINE J. PEZZETTI .......... Brooklyn
. ALFRED J. D’ALESSIO ........... Manhattan
. THOMAS A. FEGAN ............ Manhattan
. THOMAS C. BISHOP ............ Queens

. ROBERT MANSON .............. Manhattan

. FRANCIS MELVIN ............... Manhattan
. WALTER L. HOLLINDE .......... Richmond
. CHARLES W. WOODEORD ........ Bronx

. HARRY J. CONNOLLY ........... Brooklyn
. THOMAS J. MURPHY ........... Brooklyn
. ARTHUR L. AMUNDSEN ......... Manhattan
. WALTER F. TAYLOR ............ Richmond
. EDGAR M. SMITH .............. Manhattan

‘ .JOHN MALONE ................ Brooklyn

. VINCENT J. PATTERSON ......... Manhattan

. JOHN STITZEL ................. Brooklyn
. THOMAS L. REGAN ............ Bronx

. ROBERT P. HAMMATT .......... Brooklyn
. WARREN W. MCSPADDEN ........ Manhattan
. JOHN J. KINDYA .............. Manhattan
. PAUL PISARIK ................. Manhattan
. SIDNEY E. ROBERTSON .......... Brooklyn

. JOSEPH C. SCHLESINGER ........ Manhattan
. THOMAS J. MORTON ............ Bronx

. JOHN C. MANCK .............. Brooklyn

POSITION

Garage Foreman
Attendant

Chief Veterinarian
License Officer
License Clerk
Chief Clerk, Hosp.
Asst. to Dist. Mgr.
Special Agent
Mechanic

Special Agent

Attendant

Sec. to Committees
Kennel Foreman
Cashier

District Manager
Attendant

District Manager
Special Agent
License Ofﬁcer
Mechanic

Chauffeur
Attendant
District Manager
Attendant
License Officer
License Ofﬁcer
Special Agent

Business Mgr. Hosp.

Chauffeur
Attendant

District Manager
District Manager
License Clerk
Garage Foreman
Attendant

Asst. Gen. Mgr.
Chauffeur
Purchasing Agent
Attendant

Special Agent

Special Agent
License Officer
Special Agent
General. Manager
Custodian

Utility Man
Chauffeur
Special Agent
Special Agent
License Ofﬁcer

BEGAN

July
May
Jan.

Aug.
Mar.
N 0V.

July

SepL

May
Aug.

Sept.

May
Oct.
Feb.
Apr.
May
June
NOV.
Dec.
Jan.

NOV.
NOV.
July
June
Oct.
Aug.
Apr.
Sept.
Sept.
Feb.

Feb.
June
Oct.

Dec.
Dec.
May
May
June
Dec.
Apr.

Apr.
July

NOV.
Jan.

Oct.

June
July
Sept
NOV.
h4ay

8,1912
29,1916
12,1920
25,1922
31,1924
30,1925
12,1926

7,1926

6,1927
19,1927

15,1927
3,1928
15,1928
18,1929
8,1929
9,1929
9,1929
16,1929
29,1929
16,1931

1,1931
16,1931
11,1932
18,1933
20,1933
16,1934
16,1935
14,1935
16,1935

3,1936

24,1936
16,1936
16,1936
1,1936
1,1936
1,1937
3,1937
9,1937
8,1937
1,1938

1,1939

1,1939
24,1939

1,1940
16,1940
16,1941
16,1941
16,1941
28,1941
11,1942

SERVICE

43
39
36
33
32
30
29
29
28
28

28
27
27
27
27
26

I010
143%

[0101010 M
I—a r--4 N) [\3 OJ

I‘D

[\DM
CO

 

NAME BOROUGH

. LOUIS C. BAER ................ Manhattan
. JAMES L. KENNY .............. Manhattan
. CHARLES J. KLINGENBECK ...... Queens

. JOHN T. BRUST ................ Brooklyn

. EDWARD J. DILLON ............. Manhattan
. CHRISTOPHER W. KEMPEN ...... Queens

. ARTHUR G. THORNTON ......... Bronx

. ARTHUR RICHARDSON .......... Brooklyn
. ALBERT A. HETTRICK .......... Richmond
. BENJAMIN HARRISON ........... Brooklyn

. RAYMOND STUDWELL ........... Queens
.WINIFRED C. SULLIVAN ........ Brooklyn
. JAMES J. WHALEN ............. Queens

. FRED W. SMITH ............... Brooklyn

. ARTHUR T. GOEBLER ........... Queens

. GEORGE F. DONNELLY .......... Queens
.WILLIAM R. PRICE ............ Bronx

. HOWARD J. DUPUIS ............ Queens

. JAMES S. PEREDA .............. Manhattan
. PETER KULEK .................. Manhattan

. PATRICK J. RYAN .............. Brooklyn

. DANIEL DELLA RUSSO .......... Brooklyn

. JOHN RHEINHEIMER ............ Brooklyn

. WILLIAM A. DREIZLER .......... Bronx

. THOMAS J. DWYER ............. Bronx

. JANICE PAPRIN LEMBERGER ..... Manhattan
. GEORGE H. TUSCHER ........... Manhattan
. THOMAS V. SHEEHAN .......... Manhattan
. CARL E. JOHNSON ............. Richmond
. JAMES J. O’KEEFE ............. Richmond

. CORNELIUS J. HADE ............ Queens

. DOROTHY G. BOYD ............. Manhattan
. MORRIS W. THOMAS ............ Brooklyn

. LILLIAN J. CALVIN ............ Brooklyn
. EDNA L. MEUDT ............... Queens

. ANDREW SHERBO ............... Manhattan
. WALTER BERNACKE ............ Queens

. GAETANO T. MANFRE .......... Brooklyn
. CHARLES R. ADAMS ............ Manhattan
. FRANK J. MICHALEK ........... Manhattan

. CALVIN E. KLINGER ............ Bronx

. CHARLES T. MILMERSTADT ....... Queens

. WILLIAM RHODES .............. Queens

. EDNA B. JORDAN .............. Manhattan
. JOSEPH ARANZULLO ............ Manhattan
. WALLACE E. FENECH ........... Bronx

. NORMAN H. JOHNSON .......... Manhattan
. NORMAN H. HALPERN .......... Manhattan

POSITION

Shelter Clerk
Kennelman
Chauffeur
Porter
Chauffeur
Chauffeur
Chauffeur
Chauffeur
Attendant
License Ofﬁcer

License Officer
Shelter Clerk
Night Kennelman
Attendant
Chauffeur
License Officer
License Ofﬁcer
Attendant
License Clerk
Asst. Utility Man

Attendant

Kennelman

Chauffeur

Attendant

License Ofﬁcer

Ed., Animal Protection
Dir. of Humane Work
Attendant

Night Kennelman
Chauffeur

License Ofﬁcer
Clerk

Chauffeur

Asst. License Clerk
License Clerk
Attendant
Kennelman

License Officer
Attendant

License Ofﬁcer

Shelter Foreman
Asst. License Clerk
Attendant
Telephone Operator
Chauffeur
Chauffeur
Veterinarian
Kennelman

BEGAN

Nov.
NOV.
NOV.
Mar.
Mar.
Apr.
July
Oct.

Nov.
NOV.

July
Oct.

Dec.
July
Aug.
Feb.

Feb.
May
July
Oct.

Nov.
NOV.
NOV.
Nov.
Feb.

June
July
Oct.

Oct.

Dec.

Feb.

Apr.
Aug.
Aug.
Aug.
Mar.
Jan.

Mar.
Apr.
July

July
July

Sept.

Dec.
Dec.
Dec.
Jan.

Feb.

1,1942
10,1942
16,1942
11,1943
16,1943
26,1943
16,1943
16,1943

1,1943

9,1943

1,1944
18,1944
4,1944
23,1945
22,1945
1,1946
1,1946
4,1946
16,1946
16,1946

1,1946
1,1946
1,1946
6,1946
10,1947
3,1947
1,1947
16,1947
16,1947
1,1947

24,1948
1,1948
1,1948
1,1948

16,1948

22,1949

25,1950

20,1950

13,1950
3,1950

19,1950
19,1950

6,1950
20,1950
20.1950
20,1950
15,1951
19,1951

SERVICE

13
13
13
13
13

WOOOOOOOOOOCOO

macro—444440000

0101010101010101

 

 




