 

 

 

NEW WINNER!
«5;:

     
       
     
    
  

ALSO
AV AiLABlE
IN 5° ‘3
BAGS FOR
B'KENNElS
ASK YOUR
PET FOOD
SUPPL‘ER

 
 
  
 

Sizes: lO‘/4 ozs. ., 30 015., 4 lbs. ., 20 lbs.

DOG DINNER

(REPLACES PAL TINY BITS)

   

Now—a “complete food” that has been thoroughly tested for
3 years on 3 generations of dogs! Puppies and full-grown dogs—fed
exclusively on new Pal Dog Dinner—met every standard of sound
and healthy growth our nutritional experts demand. There’s no need
to add vegetables or meat or milk or supplements of any kind. Keep
your dog on a steady diet of Pal Dog Dinner and watch him thrive!

 

 

Bird Migration

(Continued from Page 13)

only the dome. For the length of time it
would have taken them to ﬂy to Africa they
sat pointing in that direction. If disturbed,
they would quickly revert southward. And

BUY A LICENSE TAG

“Hello, ASPCA? I lost my dog. He’s a
little brown and white terrier and he
they would not sleep during the migration. answers to the name 0f Skippyo Have
you seen him?

Key ﬁxed stars, such as those in the Big
Dipper, are the important cornerstones in Almost 5,000 times last year we were

the sky pattern, Dr. Sauer found. He also able to say: “Yes, we found your dog

 

discovered that a completely black pattern-
less dome also confused the warblers. This
would have its analogy in nature to a cloudy
night when the birds could not see the stars.

The star theory, however, would apply
only to night ﬂiers (about two-thirds of all
birds). According to another theory, the day
migrators, such as robins, crows, hawks, jays
and hummingbirds, steer by the sun.

But even as humans continue to speculate,
if it is Spring the robin has returned once
again to ﬂutter outside the Window.

 

and he’s right here, safe and sound.”

But all too often such lost dogs were
never found or turned in — mainly be-
cause they weren’t wearing a license
tag. Protect your dog by buying a New
York City license tag, $3 at your bor-
ough ASPCA ofﬁce. And be sure the dog
wears the tag. It’s the best insurance
that you’ll get him back if he gets lost.

Besides, it’s the law!

 

 

 

 

 

 




SPRING 1959

ANIMAL
‘ PROTECTION

 




 

 

 

 

Cats quickly respond to Puss ’n Boots
in energy. . . disposition. . . good appearance

A balanced whole-fish formula
means livelier, lovelier pets.

Few sights are more gratifying to a pet owner
than to watch the right diet work its healthy
magic. And that’s surely one good reason why
whole-ﬁsh Puss ’n Boots Cat Food is so univer-
sally popular—the results of a balanced diet
are apparent in three weeks or less! Eyes be-
come brighter, coats glossier, and dispositions
more playful and affectionate.

The natural life balance of whole ﬁsh—as
the chart shows—is what makes today’s
Puss ’n Boots so nourishing. Calcium for
sound teeth and strong bones, proteins for
strength and energy, and vitamins and
minerals for all-round health. Selected
choice cereals are added for regularity,
plus a bonus of vitamins B, and E.

Begin feeding Puss ’n Boots today. You’ll see
a deﬁnite improvement in three weeks or less.

 

 

 

How the Natural life Balance of i
WHOLE FISH is Retained in Puss ‘n Boots

Bone Structure, for liver and Glands, gostly Fillets, rich
valuable calcium for minerals, 0118 m essential high-
and phosphorus. and vitamins. quality prorems.

 

 

 

Packed in 8-02. and 15-02. sizes
PUSSh

Fine quality makes it America's
largest selling cat food.

Coast Fisheries Division oi The Quaker Oats Company. Chicago 54. Illinois.

 




 

What’s
in a.
name?

What’s in a name? Plenty, according to
Carolyn R. Babson, who thinks naming a
dog should be as ﬁne a literary art as writing
a sonnet. This quick-witted breeder of has-
sets and bloodhounds began her name-calling
hobby several years ago when friends ad-
mired names she picked for her own dogs.

Now she does a thriving business in selling
names that can be registered with the Amer—
ican Kennel Club. But this is no get-rich-
quick business for Mrs. Babson, who is a
woman of heart as well as mind. The fee
paid by the dog’s owner is sent to a humane
society of the buyer’s choice. As a matter of
fact, it was when the ASPCA received such
a unique contribution that our curiosity was
piqued to ferret out this story.

Actually, it all started when Mrs. Babson,
as a child, began to collect wooden, ivory,
glass, ceramic and metal ﬁgures of hogs.
Each of her 200 specimens from all over the
world had its own name. One was Herr
Fertig (Mr. Empty), a wooden napkin ring.
From then on she named everything from
summer houses to goldﬁsh.

When it came time to name the dogs she
raises at her kennels in Batavia, Illinois, she
wanted a kennel name that was different and
expressed her family’s personality. Using her
wry sense of humor, she came up with Ty-
burn, an 18th century site of a gallows tree
where English highwaymen were hanged.

Her male bassets are named for famous
highwaymen. “All bassets,” she says, “are
basically thieves, not only of hearts, but of
toys. socks and the like. Their colors re-

2

semble the red velvet, white linen, black
English broadcloth, scarlet ribbons and lace
favored by the Gentlemen of the Road.
Even the ears look like Wigs.”

Tyburn’s highwaymen are Ch. Bold Turpin
of Blackheath, Sixteen String Jack, Galloping
Dick of Putney and the senior basset, Ch.
Santana Hounslow Highwayman (for Houns-
low Heath in England, a good place for stop-
ping coaches) .

The female bassets are named for 17th
and 18th century London pickpockets and
ladies of the evening. Moll Cutpurse of Fleet
Street is named for one of Britain’s most
famous fences, who kept a shop on Fleet
Street for receiving stolen goods. Ch. Beauti-
ful Bess of Bow Street is a hot-tempered
redhead. Doll Frampton of Drury Lane was
notorious for rolling the gentry. The matri-
arch is Ch. Santana’s Kate Hardcastle, after
the heroine of “She Stoops to Conquer.”

A thriving business

When these names got around, friends
and breed fanciers Mrs. Babson met at dog
shows asked her to think up names for their
dogs. It snowballed in 1957 into a commer-
cial enterprise. “No longer do I get requests,”
she says, “but ﬁrm orders from all over the
country, and the humane societies get a
contribution.”

“Naming a dog for someone else calls for
tact and delicacy,” declares Mrs. Babson,
mother of six children and an expectant
grandmother. First of all, the name must
conform to American Kennel Club rules. It




 

 

 

Mr. Schlesinger rode down in the
elevator.

‘.______.__._.<_
_________.__

: 5%. —“/
EE /

$3”

W
\m

 

”1 I
A
k

 

For Rufus the day was full of fun.
.0...‘..............

 
 
   
   

 

\\\

‘ . -4
\\\\\\\\\\\\§-

{3.

\\
\‘

.‘
“

\
\\\\\\\

:1
0

15’:'
v

    
 

 

 

 

 

Mr. Schlesinger had brought raw meat
and a slice of melon along.

 

 

 

 

With his net raised he crept along the
ledge. Down came the net. Off ﬂew
Rufus.

 

 

 

U SWEATHER BUREAU

 

 

 

 

 

Rufus was sunning himself on an in-
. strument that measured the speed of
. the wind.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Rufus ﬂew down to the roof and walked
into the pigeon coop. Now the chase
was ended. Rufus was safe.

11

 




 

 

  

‘.::..‘. .‘O‘
M.
.0 ﬁg} 5 ‘n‘
0,: :.::::o‘ 09‘
’0’“: .

 

hambo scenied _ . . g _
E» “VLABONE ' g
_ , awaken/Ilsa

0f daPO/W Imam

ﬁvpieovco 13v VETERINAQIANQ
AS COMTJLETELV SACE F02 0069
WSEDRY LEADING IZENNELS,
ANIMAL HOSPITALS, AND HUMANE
SOCIETIES
@ENEEICIAL room CLEANING é
GUM EXEQCIQC No TOOTH

   
  

GANA 91M; DOGS LIVES” .WILL
sAve VQOVEQTY DESTQUCTION

mo sTOMAcu wears . No
EMBAQQAQQING VONN'T'iNc—‘r.

ii
NO COST LV SUGGEQV

NYIABONE costs less than anything else
for dogs to chew upon . . .in the IOng run!

MANUFACTURED l OUAIANTEED BY

NYLA BONE‘

CORPORATION

 

no. Box 7222 OklahomuCityIZ, one?

3VSIZES. Petite 5.8? Regular 5' 39 ,Wolf 5' ,9

 

 

All dogs in New York City, regardless of
age, must be licensed. License is $3 at
ASPCA ofﬁce in your borough.

 

 

18

MEMBERS NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE
MEMBERS AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE
MONTHLY INVESTMENT PLAN
MUTUAL FUNDS - PORTFOLIO ANALYSIS
COMPLETE BROKERAGE SERVICE

MALTZ GREENWALD & CO.

MIDTOWN AREA

Bronx clinic closes

In order to cooperate with the Veterinary
Medical Association of New York City and
work in closer harmony with members of
the veterinary profession, it seemed advisable
for the ASPCA to close its Veterinary Clinic
in the Bronx Shelter, 420 Morris Park Ave-
nue. This is no way aﬂeets any of the other
operations conducted in this Shelter.

The Society’s Bronx Clinic, therefore.
closed permanently on February 13. The
Society’s veterinary services to 'the public
are now conﬁned to its Main Hospital and
Clinic, York Avenue and East 92nd Street,
Manhattan.

We hope this announcement will not inﬂict
too great a hardship on our friends and cli-
entele in the Bronx, and that you will hence-
forth either make use of the veterinary
facilities offered at the ASPCA’s Manhattan
Hospital and Clinic — or consult a veter-
inarian of your choice.

Board member appointed
Horace H. Nahm, owner and President of

Hooven Letters, Inc., New York, has ac-

cepted an appointment to our Board of
Managers. Among his other afﬁliations, he is
a Director of the Advertising Club of New
York, is a Vice President of the American
Institute of Graphic Arts and the Association
of First Class Mailers. Mr.

Stamford, Connecticut.

Nahm lives in

 

       
 

 

4Ist ST. 8: BROADWAY
1441 BROADWAY, N.Y.IL, N.Y.

CH ickering 4-0343

 

 

 




 

This country, too, came in for its share of
animal-man troubles. When a Kansas City
family got its cooker spaniel back from the
veterinarian Where he had been for a hair-
cut, the dog failed to greet the two cats and
wasn’t interested in its favorite haunts. The
family attributed the change to the shock of
the haircut, until the veterinarian called to
say they had the wrong dog.

A haircut was responsible for another
mixup in Ohio when a motorist reported to
the highway patrol that a lion had crossed
the road in front of his car. The lion turned
out to be a collie who had all his hair
clipped, except the mane around his neck.

Man’s feathered friends made the news
when a homing pigeon landed aboard the
liner Cristofo Colombo 270 miles out at sea
and made it to Europe and back the easy way.

The contrariness of monkeys was illus-
trated when ﬁve inmates at the Cincinnati
Zoo engineered a “jail break” from their zoo
island. The island was supposed to be “es-
cape-proof.” The director of the St. Louis
Zoo, said his chimpanzees can drive cars
better than some people. Also in St. Louis,
when a girl, 10, caught the measles, her pet
capuchin monkey, Peanuts, showed all the
symptoms — fever, droopiness and red spots.
In New York two safecrackers stole $1500
from a pet shOp safe while Bonzo, a 50-
pound ring-tailed monkey who acted as assis-
tant night watchman, was asleep in his cage.

 

~ One-Spat A

Flea Killer

 

DUST ON ONE SPOT Guaranteed by Manufacturer
ROTENONE from derris. Best for over 20 years.
Free comb taped to each can. Tested and true.

RAT a n d M 0 USE
KILLER (Mixwith meal)

Warfarin Concentrate to
make 21/2 pounds of bait .

only 100

One-Spot the guaranteed
FLY KILLER (Just mix with
1 quart sugar.) MALA’l‘IlION
CONCENTRATE -— They’ll die
like ﬂies Buy today—50¢
All above by ONE-SPOT CO.,Jessup, Md. (Metal
cans) 4 cans each $4.80 postpaid (Value $8.00)

 

  
  

 

  
 

Great way
to buy stocks

Requires only $40 a month, or
every 3 months. Choice of any
of 1,200 stocks listed on New
York Stock Exchange. Start any
time.Quitanytime—nopenalties.
Write for free booldet

THOMSON & McKINNON /
11 Wall Street, New York /
MEMBERS NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE A

 

OIL SKIN’ RAlNCOAT
Personalized with dog's own name
Sizes l0-lZ-l4-l6-l8-20

measure tail to neck
Inches H

   
   
  

  
     

$2 postpaid

JO DO SPECIALTY 60., INC.
389 Fifth Ave., New York

21

 

 




       
 

alghfs
best

190“"? I"

{ﬁend

   
   
  
   
  
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
     

“Daddy, let’s take Tippy right home and
show Mommie what we picked out.”

The combination of a boy and his
dog is one of the great American tradi-
tions. The mutual bond of love and

Martha Rose Davidson companionship that goes with owning a

and the little black
l and white puppy have
‘ found each other in
l the Manhattan Shelter
‘ adoption ward.

pet, and the pride of ownership are all
part of a boy’s growing up.

But dogs make ﬁne pals for girls, too.
As these pictures Show, many of the
17,998 animals adopted from ASPCA
shelters last year were taken home by

girls.

 

Pat Healy and Peggy Heimberger
cuddle the puppies of their
choice at the Queens Shelter. Wire-haired terrier, Melody, likes
16-month-old Donna Marie Newman, but
her daddy thinks she’s too young to
take care of such a big dog, hence the tears.
Donna ended up with a kitten instead.

 

VINCENT

LJ. PRESS

 




LETTERS

 

 

 

> I wish I could give $1,000,000 to your wonderful
work, but unfortunately $1 is all I receive for my
allowance. Sorry! I love animals— all kinds. When
ignorant people treat them cruelly, I will not men-
tion what I would like to do to them. It makes me
mad all over.

I have a dog Sheltie, a cat Isabella, a turtle
Satan, two goldﬁsh, Rock and little Roll. Please

always continue your heroic work.

Lyn Parzini (age 13)
Manhasset, N. Y.

D I am enclosing the amount I would have paid
for my little dog Carlotta’s license for the coming
year had she not passed away in February. If you
should know of any one, old or young, who cannot
afford a license for a dog please use it for that.

Rose S. Hoyt
Richmond Hill, N. Y.

> Because of a very sick pup, I was forced to call
your ofﬁce at Morris Park Avenue at the rather
ridiculous hour of 11 o’clock last Saturday night.
The man who answered courteously and efﬁciently
helped me with the immediate problem. Later an
equally courteous and capable driver came to pick
up the pup at about 11:30 pm. In these days when
the snarling busdriver, the indifferent store clerk
and the grasping cabdriver have become the ac-
cepted thing, it is refreshing and gratifying to
come across someone who willingly does his job
competently and courteously.

Mrs. Josephine M. Murphy
F ordham University, N. Y.

> Just a word of thanks for the excellent care and
understanding my dogs have received at your clinic.
We adopted both of them from you and I have
never had so much pure pleasure and enjoyment
from anything else as I have had from them.

Caroline Green
Astoria, N. Y.

> Two months ago I wrote a letter in which I
accused one of your Special Agents of harassing
and persecuting me in connection with certain al-
leged complaints concerning my pet shop. My
accusation was based upon hearsay statements made
by third persons, as well as my misconception of
his functions and duties.

2“ll

Since writing I have had several occasions to
speak to your Agent and to study his recommen-
dations and I am now thoroughly and sincerely
convinced that I have been mistaken in evaluating
his motives. I have complied with his many good
suggestions in an endeavor to conduct a clean and
law abiding pet shop. The conditions which re-
sulted in or caused the complaints to be made
against me have now been entirely eliminated or
corrected.

Pet Shop
Brooklyn, N. Y.

> One of the most pleasant and enjoyable days
our Brownie Troop spent was the day we visited
the Bronx Shelter. We all loved the animals and
were very impressed to see how very well they are
taken care of in your beautiful building. We do
hope the cute little white puppy has been adopted
by someone who will love it as we did. If only we
could all have taken him home.

Girl Scout Brownie Troop 1-379
Bronx, N. Y.

> Thank you for ANIMAL PROTECTION. When I
get through with it, it goes to a veterans’ hospital.

Mrs. H. Wedekind
Brooklyn, N. Y.

> My son had been nipped by a dog, and although
it was not a serious case, as a mother I was very
upset until the dog was found or until my son was
considered out of danger. During the period your
staff cooperated in every way in locating the dog,
and was most kind and considerate.

Before this I had not been aware how helpful
your agency was to the welfare of the people. It
pleased me to note a dog, temporarily released from
his pen, which ran directly to one of the employees
and kissed him.

Mrs. D. Gallagher
New York, N. Y.

F We are so happy with Peter and wish to thank
you for helping us ﬁnd her. (We had the name
picked before the dog.) She sleeps in her bed next
to my daughter’s and they eat, nap, and play
together. I believe I’ve another child. Signs show
the pup is as happy with us as we are with her.

Lois Morehead
New York, N. Y.

 




ANIMAL PROTECTION

Published three times yearly by

The American S eeiety for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

Founded and Incorporated 1866

 

Vol. 13, NO. 1
Editorial Ofﬁce: 30 East 60th Street

 

ADMINISTRATION OFFICES . . TRafalgar 6-7700
441 East 92nd St., New York 28, N. Y. (York Ave.)
ARTHUR L. AMUNDSEN, Assistant General Manager
GEORGE H. TUSCHER, Director of Humane Work
KATHERINE M. LEHR, Secretary to Committees
THACHER PROFFITT, PRIZER, CRAWLEY 81 WOOD,
Attorney and Counsel

HOSPITAL AND CLINIC . .
441 East 92nd St., New York 28, N. Y.
JOHN E. WHITEHEAD, V.M.D., Chief of Staff
THOMAS A. FEGAN, Business Manager
EDUCATION DEPARTMENT TRafalgar 6-7700, Ext. 31

441 East 92nd St., New York 28, N. Y. (3rd Floor)
DIANA HENLEY, Director

TRafalgar 6-7700

PUBLIC RELATIONS DEPARTMENT

30 East 60th St., New York 22, N. Y.
JUNE ELIOT, Director

PLaza 5-1650

ANIMALPORT

Air Cargo Center, New York International
Airport, Jamaica 30, N. Y.
GEORGE F. BAUER, Resident Manager

BRONX SHELTER. . . . . .
420 Morris Park Avenue, Bronx 60, N. Y.
(between Tremont Ave. and East 178th St.)
N. MICHAEL BROMLEY, District Manager

OLympia 6-6042

TYrone 2-8500

BROOKLYN SHELTER . . .
233 Butler St., Brooklyn 17, N. Y.
(between Nevins and Bond Streets)
HARRY J. CONNOLLY, District Manager

TRiangle 5-9580

MANHATTAN SHELTER

441 East 92nd St., New York 28, N. Y.
FRANCIS MELVIN, District Manager

NASSAU COUNTY SHELTERS

Pratt Blvd. Ext., Glen Cove, L. I. . .
VINCENT J. PATTERSON, Shelter Manager

70 Water Street, Long Beach, L. I. .
JAMES J. MCKENNA, Shelter Manager

TRafalgar 6-7700

ORiole 6-5913

GEneral 1-0660

QUEENS SHELTER .

94-27 158th St., Jamaica 33, N. Y.
ROBERT B. FERRIS, District Manager

RICHMOND SHELTER

4 Willow Ave., Rosebank, S. I. 5, N. Y.
WALTER L. HOLLINDE, District Manager

WESTERN WESTCHESTER SHELTER

Old Saw Mill River Rd., Elmsford, N. Y. .
CARL STOHR, Shelter Manager

REpublic 9-4041

GIbraltar 7-0122

LYric 2-7890

Spring 1959

Editor, JANICE PAPRIN

OFFICERS

WILLIAM ROCKEFELLER, President
WILLIAM F. MORGAN, Vice-President
JAMES H. RIPLEY, Vice-President
RICHARD C. KETTLES, Vice-President
WILLIAM A. MEYERHOFF, Treasurer
LOUIS REYNAL, Secretary

JOHN W. BEAM, Asst. Secretary

BOARD OF MANAGERS

JOHN D. BEALS, JR.
WILLIAM E. BUCKLEY
JOHN W. CROSS, JR.
JAMES H. JENKINS
ROBERT L. JONES
JOSE A. MACHADO, JR.
ALASTAIR B. MARTIN
JOSEPH B. MURRAY
HORACE H. NAHM
HUGH E. PAINE

W. Ross PROCTOR
WILLIAM A. ROCKEFELLER
GEORGE B. WAGSTAFF

Managers Emeritus
F. AMBROSE CLARK
HENRY J. FISHER
SAMUEL R. MILBANK

 

| N D E X
In Memoriam:

Warren W. McSpadden ........ 1
What’s In a Name ............... 2
A Girl’s Best Friend ............. 5
I. 0. Zoo ....................... 6
The Doctor Listens .............. 9
The Adventures of Rufus ........ 10
The Wonder of Bird Migration ..... 12
The Great Outdoors .............. 14
Our Hospital Needs ............. 16
The Battle of the Puddle ......... 17
Happy Birthday, Animalport ....... 19
Animal Antics .................. 20
Lost and Found in the Big City... 22
Letters ........................ 24
Wanted: A Home. . . .lnside Back Cover

 

 

 

 

 

 




   

can’t be the same as another dog’s in the
same breed. It can’t run past 25 letters. Once
accepted, it can’t be changed. And it can’t
involve the use (without written permission)
of an A.K.C. registered kennel name. The
fact that this august body hasn’t rejected
even one name suggested by Mrs. Babson
proves her gift for the unique.

But that’s just the beginning of the prob-
lem. “A dog is a very personal thing,” she
explains. The owner’s name, personality,
hobbies, the breed and the individual dog’s
characteristics must all be considered. Does
the owner want whimsy, subtlety, mystery?
Does he want a conversation piece?

In general, clients fall into three cate-
gories. Some want recondite names with a
long story attached. Others want rhymed or
alliterative names. And there are those who
feel it is more chic to name a dog something
that doesn’t rhyme or mean anything. “All I
have to do is place the owner, and naming
the dog is a lead pipe cinch.”

Trying to explain how she arrives at the
name, she says, is like having a composer
explain how he writes music. But she does
reveal some sources of her inspiration——
languages, history, botany, music and other
arts. She has studied eight languages, in-
cluding archaic English and Gaelic. Gaelic
comes in handy for naming Irish terriers
and Irish wolfhounds. One was called Suidh

Sios, pronounced Sooey Shees, (sit down).

She loves folk music and has many lists of
possibilities made up from old songs. “Actu-
ally,” she says, “anything and everything
I’ve ever read or heard is grist to the mill.”

Some of. her favorites include Chinese
Cracker Caesar, a pekingese whelped on July
4. Dimond’s Diane de Poitiers is a ﬂirtatious
grey poodle. A fat basset puppy sired by an
American and Mexican champion was dubbed
So and So’s Stout Cortez. A lemon basset is
Lord Lemon of Limehouse. Lorgair, a kennel
name for bloodhounds, means in Gaelic a
place of tracking or investigation. She cre-
ated the kennel name Feenreich (Kingdom
of the Fairies) for a German family. The

 

Three of the Babson children pose with the Hounds of Tyburn.

dogs, like Feenreich’s Rumpelstiltzkin, are
named for fairytale heros and heroines.

Future plans

Just recently Mrs. Babson and her hus-
band Gustavus, who spent summers on a
cattle ranch in Wyoming, but now prefers
dogs, began breeding bloodhounds. They will
be named for law enforcement pioneers. The
ﬁrst in line: Flat Foot’s Fearless Fosdick.

When the last of their six children has
left the homestead at 522 North Batavia
Avenue, in Batavia’s suburbs, the Babsons
expect to expand Tyburn into a virtual
House of Hounds, elsewhere.

“Our dream,” muses Carolyn Babson, “is
to have two resident veterinarians, separate
kennels spread over a lot of acreage, a dor-
mitory of dog boys, and altogether an estab-
lishment where people may come and count
on seeing a top sire, a top dam and puppies
of varying ages in every hound breed.” In
1961 they expect to bring in Irish wolf-
hounds, and eventually even some hound
breeds not yet “recognized” by the A.K.C.

Meantime Mrs. Babson will continue to ﬁll
orders for original names for any regis-
terable dog that wants one. For, as she sums
up her philosophy, “A good dog deserves a
good name.”

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
   
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
   
  
   
  
    
    
   
 
 

 




At a litle farm near Hot Springs, Arkan-
sas, chickens do arithmetic problems, roos-
ters play the piano, turkeys operate pinball
machines and rabbits play basketball.

The farm belongs to Mr. and Mrs. Keller
Breland, graduate psychologists and two of
America’s leading animal trainers.

In the past 11 years they have trained
over 5,000 animals of 28 different species
to do “the impossible.” And in all this
training, no animal has ever been punished.
Punishment, they say, is a poor teacher.

How do they do it? They train the ani-
mals according to psychological principles.
Their main technique is to reward a good
performance and to ignore a poor one.

Eighteen years ago, while Keller and
Marian were studying for doctorates in psy-
chology at the University of Minnesota. they
fell in love and married. They decided a
farm was the best place to raise a family
(they have three children) and to make use
of their psychological background.

Today they have a staff of ten on the
280-acre farm, plus those running the I. Q.
Zoo. Their animals have appeared at zoos,
fairs, exhibitions and on television, earning
them an international reputation.

6

The Brelands chat with Desmond the Drumming Duck.

 

 

 

The couple have trained pigs to wrestle.
dogs to play chess, cats to catch balls, ham-
sters to swing like Tarzan on a trapeze,
foxes to jump for grapes, turkeys to oper-
ate trains, and ducks to play the drums.

But most of their pupils have been chick
ens, which appear at fairs, rodeos and
stores as crowd-pullers to help salesmen to
attract customers for farm feed. Two acts
are most popular—one in which a hen does
a tap dance while a rooster plays the piano,

Son Bradley Breland trades punches
with Billy Bangs, a boxing goat.

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
   
   




 

THE D on LISTEN

 

 

 

FEEDING YOUR CAT
by the Veterinary Staff

ASPCA Hospital and Clinic

Cats today are healthier and live longer
than ever before. One reason: today’s owners
know the importance of good nutrition. A
properly fed cat is a healthy, active cat with
bright eyes and thick, glossy fur. A poorly
fed cat, on the other hand, is sluggish, and
has poor general health and low resistance
to disease.

Meat is basic

The cat is a ﬂesh-eating animal, so meat
forms the basis of an essential diet. The best
meats are beef, lamb and chicken, especially
the heart, liver and kidney. Meats may be
served cooked or raw, since raw meat con-
tains many essential vitamins and minerals.
All foods should be room temperature.

Avoid monotony by encouraging your cat
to eat many foods. Recently we heard of a
cat that eats only clam chowder and cucum-
ber. Since cats are creatures of habit, don’t
indulge your pet’s appetite by feeding only
his favorite food. Other foods must be added
for bulk, variety and nutritious Vitamins,
minerals and proteins.

Variety is the spice

Include in the diet cooked ﬁsh, cereals,
milk and eggs. Non-starchy vegetables such
as carrots, stringbeans and spinach should
be given cooked and mashed. They may be
cooked with meat as a stew or mashed with
the meat. Raw vegetables are considered in-
digestible for the cat and should not be fed.
Fats such as butter, olive oil and vegetable
oil may be given in small amounts for a
good shiny coat. Many prepared cat foods
on the market today are excellent and can
be introduced for variety.

Although milk is the most perfect food,
milk alone is not sufﬁcient. It should make
up a daily part of the diet, especially for
kittens, but only as a supplement. Milk does
not take the place of water, which should be
available at all times.

A mother cat and her kittens

A mother cat should be fed generously
with bone-building calcium and muscle-
building protein while she nurses her kit-
tens. She will automatically wean them at
four to ﬁve Weeks. At that age the kittens
have sharp teeth and their stomachs are
equipped to digest solid foods. They should
be given scraped beef, egg and strained baby
food. Milk and water should always be
available.

Feed kittens small amounts three to four
times a day. As they grow older, gradually
reduce the number of feedings and increase
the quantity at each meal. Adult cats may
be fed once a day.

Diet supplements

Undernourished cats are particularly sus-
ceptible to rickets, urinary tract diseases and
various skin diseases. Before the widespread
feeding of good diets and vitamins, urethral
and bladder stones were much more preva-
lent. Today they can be prevented with
prepared feline prescription canned food
added to the regular diet.

Skin infections like ringworm are less
prevalent in animals fed proper diets. And
bad skin conditions will improve with better
nutrition, plus the treatment of the speciﬁc
cause of the disease.

All pregnant cats should have a mineral
supplement with Vitamin D to prevent rickets
in the kittens. If kittens are born with rick-
ets, a high protein diet with minerals and
Vitamin D will help improve rthe condition.
The earlier the treatment is started, the less
chance of permanent impairment.

Vitamin and mineral supplements should
also be added to the regular diet for aged
cats and cats in poor general health to in-
crease their resistance to disease.

 




 

 

 

 

 

NTRIFUGE —$669

Two years ago we appealed on this page for a Centrifuge for the ASPCA Hospital.
Since no one contributed the needed $669, and since this is such a vital instrument, we are
repeating our appeal.

The Centrifuge confirms the veterinarian's clinical diagnosis by preparing blood, urine,
feces and other specimens for laboratory analysis and interpretation.

It does this by spinning the specimen at high speed until, through centrifugal force, and
in a matter of minutes, the solid separates from the liquid. The material then can be analyzed
with a spectrophotometer or under the microscope. Once a deﬁnite diagnosis has been made,
prompt treatment can be administered. Speedy analysis can often spell the difference between

life and death.

A plaque with the donor’s name will be placed on the machine. Can you think of a more
rewarding way to memorialize a departed relative or pet?

16

 

 

 




 

 

 

I. Q. Zoo
( Continued from Page 7 j

A minute later she is so eager she races
to the magazine, grabs a page in her beak
and pulls. Each time she pulls, a page turns
over. Presto—she is turning the pages.

Using this method the Brelands have
trained porpoises for the two great ocean-
aria, Marine Studios, Florida, and Marine-
land of the Paciﬁc. The porpoises leap 15
feet into the air to seize a baton. They
“sing,” jump through paper h00ps, throw
and catch forward passes with a football
and shoot for the basket.

Their staff psychologist trained Bubbles,
the ﬁrst trained whale in the world at Ma-
rineland. According to the Brelands, por-
poises and Whales are intelligent and
friendly, playful, bright and very reward-
ing to work with.

The trainers are often asked: What is
the smartest animal? Deﬁnitions differ as
to what is smart, but they have come up
with a tentative deﬁnition. An animal is
smart if he learns quickly what will reward
him, if he can generalize, and if he can
recognize signiﬁcant differences between
similar objects.

Rating them by this deﬁnition, Mrs. Bre-
land places apes ﬁrst, then monkeys, rac-
coons, porpoises and pigs. She rates dogs
and cats below pigs. Crows, parakeets and
parrots come next, followed by cows, sheep,
hamsters, rabbits, squirrels and fowl.

But, say the Brelands, animals of one
species differ among themselves almost as
much as people do. The trainers capitalize
on these differences.

For instance, some rabbits may be bet-
ter basketball players than others. An active.
highstrung chicken makes a ﬁne tightrope
walker, while a fat, phlegmatic hen can sell
postcards from a coin—operated machine.

Of course, they sometimes ﬁnd all-around
geniuses who are good at everything and
“duds” who don’t seem to have any talent
whatsoever. Just like people!

happy birthday,
animalpor’r

The ASPCA Animalport at New York
International Airport recently celebrated its
ﬁrst birthday as America’s only shelter cater-
ing exclusively to animal air travelers.

On hand for the birthday party was
Charlie II, the Animalport’s ﬁrst lion, 347-
pound mascot of a U. S. Army unit in Ger-
many. When the once cuddly, playful cub
grew too big and too expensive for the job,
the battalion chipped in to send the 18-
month-old lion to the Cincinnati Zoo.

A few unexpected guests at the party
stayed for eight days. Four sea lions caught
off the California coast and bound for Ham-
burg, Germany, took Resident Manager
George F. Bauer by surprise. To make them
feel at home, he hooked up a water hose
and rushed out for a spray nozzle and all
the ﬁsh he could buy. “I learned something
I didn’t know before,” Mr. Bauer says. “Sea
lions will eat only under water.”

During its ﬁrst year the Animalport fed,
watered, exercised and housed over 21,000
animals of 70 different species. Included
were two rare snow leopards, tigers, alliga-
tors, dogs, cats, birds, porcupines, storks,
cheetahs, pandas, agoutis, lizards, hyenas,
hogs and chinchillas.

Most expensive single animal was $274,000
Kentucky Derby winner Iron Liege, on his
way to race in England. Some of Aly Khan’s
race horses, Arthur Godfrey’s Goldie, and a
couple of Tennessee Walking horses sent by
Victor Borge to friends in Copenhagen, trav-
eled via the Animalport. Cattle shipments to
foreign lands included ten heifers sent to the
Vatican by Italian-American farmers.

Awarded Certiﬁcate of Honorable Mention
by the Queens Chamber of Commerce, the
building has already expanded its facilities
with two more horse stalls and 20 additional
small animal kennels. Stable and garage
ﬂoors have been redone with a special non-
slip asphalt imported from Trinidad.

19

 

 

 

 




PEDIGREED DO GS

 

Beautiful Black and Silver Gray
Puli Puppies from
Championship Stock

Cedwood Kennels

    

Owner, Ellanor Anderson

x--.--..-OI:- .......

1166 Burlington Avenue Bristol, Connecticut

 

From the bright
and sunny SKYES—of

GLAMO‘OR
KENNELS

WALTER F. GOODMAN

348 E. 52nd Street
New York 22, N. Y.
EL 5-4182

 

 

CH. SNOWMAN de BEAU MAR at Stud.

Best in Show winning 9- inch
Toy Poodle. Pioven sire of
quality whites and creams.
$200, to approved bitches
only. Rated among top 10 toy

Canada for 1 9 5 7 . Choice
puppies availab bel
MRS.

L. G. MEYERS
EI- Gem Kennels
Box 214, Pine Bush, N. Y.
N. Y. City Phone MU 4-2121

 

 

MINIATURE VSCHNAUZERS

GLOSTER’S
GABLES

At stud to
approved
bItches:

OH. DESTINY
OF LEDAHOF

(C_h. Dorem
DIs%lay ex

    

GLOSTER'S GILROY GABLE
Owner: MRS. GLORIA A. STORcH
Enchantress) 113 Dutchess Blvd. Atlantic Beach, N.Y.

Tels.- (NYC) CE 9- 0018; ES 81921; FR 1- 1383

IRADELL KENNELS

Breeders and Importers

FINEST TYPES OF SKYE TERRIERS ALSO TOY POODLES
AND AUSTRALIAN SILKY TERRIERS
O
Mrs. N. Clarkson Earl, Jr. John J. Keyes
Owner
Ridgefield, Conn.
Walter c. Foster, handler

Manager
Idlewood 8-3400

 

 

SHELTIE PUPPIES ‘TwﬁokﬁHngHT

GOLDEN MAHOGANY and RED SABLES

0 Full White Markings. Champion Pedigrees.

0 Excellent Type.

I Friendly Healthy Good Companions.

0 Serum Distemper Inoculated. Reasonably Priced.

ALSO SAMOYED 8: KEESHOND PUPPIES

MRS. W. VAN PELT DAVIS

MOUNT SINAI LONG ISLAND. N. Y.
Phone: POrt Jefferson 8-2695W

GERMAN SHEPHERDS OF QUALITY

Good Bone Structure, Good Temperament. Con—
formity and Coat. for Show or Obedience.

WILLANA KENNELS

1508 Burnett Ave. Union-A. New Jersey

 

[\'J

 

 

 

 

lost and found
in the big city

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

/’ 'l - I ‘/'I _ /

 

 

New York’s reputation as a tourist mecca
has ﬁlled with wanderlust even the dogs of
people visiting the city. So many of them
decide to do a little sightseeing on their own
while in town.

During one holiday week recently three
dogs belonging to out-of-town vacationers
became lost in Queens alone. The dogs, from
Connecticut, Florida and Schenectady, spent
several days taking in the sights before they
were spotted by ASPCA ambulances and
brought to the shelter to be claimed by
frantic owners.

A few touring canines made it easier for
us by wearing their home license tags. One
German shepherd had a Massachusetts tag
when he was picked up in Manhattan. By
wiring Massachusetts we traced the owner to
a New York tugboat, where he was em-
ployed. A dog from Virginia was traced
through his tag by a call to the Richmond
SPCA. Skipper’s owner turned out to be a
newspaperman now living in New York.

The town clerk in Westhampton, Long
Island, gave us the name of the owner of a
two-year-old Labrador retriever found on
Manhattan’s west side.

Could be that a couple of out-of-town
canines are now telling their friends: “New
York is a nice place to visit, but I’d hate to
get lost there.”

 

 

 




 

Spring is here. We know it because the
robin is back from Georgia. The bobolink
is home from Brazil. Waterfowl, not seen
since last fall, melodiously honk their return
from southern winter vacations.

The miracle of bird migration has once
again manifested itself, as it has been doing
for more than 40 million years. North and
south the ﬂocks have ﬂown, over the ages,
led by a marvelous urge which remains one
of nature’s great mysteries.

How does the tiny hummingbird ﬁnd the
stamina to ﬂy across the Gulf of Mexico in
one night? What tells birds to get moving in
the late summer and early fall, long before
chill weather is due? What warns them? Do
they carry built-in thermometers?

And once settled in their southern winter
nesting sites, what tells them it’s springtime
up north and time for the return trip? How
does a tanager ﬁnd its way from Peru to a
certain tree in Westchester where for several
years it has built a nest with its mate and
raised a family? What wondrous power of
aerial navigation is involved?

Nobody knows. There have been theories
galore, but the mystery is still unsolved.
Many generations of philosophers have pon-
dered the problem. Aristotle knew the swal-
lows migrated, but he didn’t know where
they went. Speculations, wild or nearer the
mark, went on through the centuries. In
1703 an English nature student named Mor-
ton theorized that birds went every fall either
to the moon, or to “some invisible aerial
island ﬁxed above our atmosphere.”

Today, although we still don’t know how
or why they go, we do know where many
birds go when they leave northern climes.
Each species ﬂocks to a winter home estab-
lished millions of years ago by its antece-
dents and reached over the same ancestral

12

; \ .1 : /'_
X i \‘sl‘b’i' Vii
I“;

trails. Some species prefer water routes;
others go by land. Some birds travel south
by one route and return by another.

Millions of birds go to Central and South
America over the water route directly across
the Gulf of Mexico. They prefer this perilous
passage to the longer route through Texas,
or from Florida through the West Indies,
though on land they would have stopping
places where they could rest and feed.

Some Canadian and New England birds
go no farther south than Long Island. But
the Connecticut warbler goes south along the
New England coast through Florida and then
to South America. The golden plover, aver-
aging 45 miles an hour, ﬂies day and night
over at least 2,000 miles of unbroken water
from its Alaskan summer home to Hawaii.

The longest journey is made by the Arctic
tern, which every year travels the 22,000-
mile round trip from North Pole to South
Pole and back again.

Banding procedure

The standard procedure for studying mi-

gration routes of fowl is banding. However,
in 1954 someone hit on the idea of coloring
geese. In a project conducted by the Califor-
nia Department of Fish and Game, in coop-
eration with the U. S. Fish and Wildlife
Service, snow geese were dipped in harmless,
bright and lasting dyes which could be
spotted in ﬂight. Pink, yellow, purple and
green geese, dyed in the Tule Lake National
Wildlife Refuge in California, were soon
reported ﬂying over Alaska, along the Arctic
Coast and in Siberia.

Often at sunrise on the West Coast the
inky stream of wild geese pushing steadily
onward may blot out the entire sky. One
observer estimated he saw 9,000 birds pass
in an hour.

‘E’

‘1’
hi”;

..
I.

5
iffy 3

'/

l
l

I
l' I
, II
1":
, l

I /

if? {/1

ltd
g... ....... 3.}

x
’4“

But what impels birds to migrate in the
first place? What spark sets them off on
their journeys year after year? It must occur
with great regularity to account for the
time-table accuracy of migrations like that
of the swallows which traditionally return to
Capistrano each year on March 19. Climatic
conditions, like temperature and barometric
pressure, are too haphazard, and so is food
supply.

Last May Dr. Albert Wolfson, Northwest-
ern University professor of biological sci-
ences, reported experiments showing that
hormones, affected by the amount of day-
light, are behind migratory ﬂights.

He found that as the days grow shorter
with fewer hours of daylight in the fall, sex
hormone productivity decreases. The birds
don’t know the season, but there is an urge
to migrate, tracing to the longer nights
weeks before. By subjecting captive birds to
periods of darkness, Dr. Wolfson was able
to induce migration, regardless of the season.
Other ornithologists feel there is a rhythm of
reproduction quite aside from any change
induced by light.

And once started on their ﬂights, how do
birds unerringly ﬁnd their way over thou-
sands of miles of land and sea, using the
same trails their ancestors took? In certain
species, the young and old migrate at differ-
ent times, and yet the young, on their very
ﬁrst ﬂight, end up in the old ﬂyways.

Many theories on how birds navigate have
been advanced. Back in the 1930’s an air-
plane pilot felt that birds unconsciously take
advantage of the ﬂow of air currents and
ride with the wind, like a skillful pilot.

Special senses have been suggested, like
direction-sense, sense of location, orientation
faculty. On the other hand, Dr. J. B. Rhine,

of Duke University, thinks the answer may

be extra sensory perception, a power outside
the senses. Memory, vision, terrestrial mag-
netism, the earth’s rotational effects, radio
waves, landmarks and celestial navigation
have also been suggested.

Navigation by the stars

Recent experiments seem to lend weight to
the celestial theory. Last October a German
scientist presented evidence that at least some
birds migrate by the stars. Dr. Franz Sauer,
ornithologist from Freiburg University, de-
scribed some novel experiments he performed
using artiﬁcial stars in the dome of a plane-
tarium at Bremen, Germany.

He found that under the man-made au-
tumnal pattern the birds “ﬂy” southward.
But the birds become confused if during
their autumnal migrating season they are
suddenly shown a summer sky.

Dr. Sauer used four species of European
warblers which were taken from their parents
before hatched and raised in sound-proof
rooms prior to the experiments. Though
never having been with older birds, the war-
blers ﬂuttered restlessly during the fall when
they would normally migrate to Africa.

During these times they were placed in
cages in the planetarium. They could see

(Continued on Page 15)

The Arctic tern travels the longest migration
route of any bird — 11,000 miles from
North Pole to South Pole and back again.

ALLAN D. CRUICKSHANK FROM NATIONAL AUDUBON SOCIETY

 

 

 

 




 

 

Wanted: A home

If homeless animals could advertise they’d say . . .

Wanted: A home where someone will feed me, give me a come?"
in which to sleep and look after me when I’m sick. In

exchange I oﬁer fmendship and loyalty, sympathy when things
are tough, a romp when things are gay. I offer all my love,

and stand meady to absorb all the aﬂection you can give.

The ASPCA Adoption Service found homes for 17,998 animals
last year. With your help we hope to place even more
pets this year. Won’t you please enclose a contribution for

THE ASPCA ADOPTION SERVICE

 




 

 

 

 

3n memoriam

Warren Wood McSpadden

The entire humane movement is mourning
the death of Warren W. McSpadden. The
General Manager of the ASPCA died March
12 after a heart attack, at the age of 55.

A tireless and exuberant worker, Mr.
McSpadden devoted every minute of his day
to the humane movement, spending long
hours at his desk, traveling thousands of
miles, and supervising a myriad of detail—
all in the cause of animal welfare. Even on
the eve of his death he was working for one
of his prime goals—passage of a humane
slaughter bill for New York State.

Mr. McSpadden joined the ASPCA in 1940
as Director of— Education and became Gen-
eral Manager and Assistant Treasurer in
1952. During his seven-year tenure the
ASPCA enjoyed the greatest expansion in its
93-year history. To the Society’s ﬁve shel-
ters, one in each New York City borough,
he added three new ones—in Long Beach,
Glen Cove and Elmsford.

The most recent achievement under his

regime was the ASPCA Animalport, opened

at New York International Airport in 1958
to care for animals between ﬂights. Under
his leadership modern equipment and meth-
ods were installed in the ASPCA Hospital,
making it one of the ﬁnest animal hospitals
in the world. In 1956 he replaced the out-
moded Bronx Shelter with a building which
has become a model for animal shelters
throughout the country.

He took a leading part in the successful
effort to have Congress adopt a humane
slaughter law last year.

A native of Texas, Mr. McSpadden was
an honor graduate of the University of Texas
and a member of Phi Beta Kappa. He he-
came supervisor of sciences in the public
schools of Austin, Texas, and from 1932 to
1940 was on the faculty of Teachers College,
Columbia University.

As ASPCA Director of Education, he pro-
duced motion pictures and was the author of
several courses of instruction on pets for use
by public school teachers. During World
War II he organized a civil defense program
for animals and instituted ASPCA obedience
training courses for dogs.

Mr. McSpadden’s avocation was photog-
raphy. His work was of such professional
caliber that he could easily have earned a
living in this ﬁeld had he not chosen humane
work instead. But he happily combined his
hobby with his love of animals, and over the
years he snapped thousands of pictures of
animals, many of which appeared in ANIMAL
PROTECTION.

The indelible imprint of Warren Wood
McSpadden, his personality and noteworthy
accomplishments, will remain to inspire all
of us who worked closely with him, as well
as humane leaders throughout the United
States.

 

In appreciation of the many contri-
butions in memory of Warren W.
McSpadden from his friends, friends
of the Society and employees of the
ASPCA.

 

 

 

 




   

 
 

your dog needs

ALPO

100% MEAT

    
 

Lean meat, good meat. . . chunks, not chopped.

 
 

Not a speck of cereal filler in ALPO.

 
 

Just fragrant wholesome

 
  

meat. . . in chunks. ALPO.

 

 

REALOCK
FENCE

security
for animals

Protection and security for your
pets—in a kennel, around the home
or at animal shelters— are economi-
cally assured with Realock Chain
Link Fence. The weather resistant
galvanized steel (or aluminum) fab—
ric and framework keep unwanted
persons away and animals safe.
Available in a variety of heights
and sizes.

For a free estimate, additional in-
formation and quick service, consult
your classiﬁed telephone directory
or write our nearest ofﬁce.

  
   

  
 
 
 
    
     
   
   
    
     
    
   
     
  

THE COLORADO FUEL AND IRON
CORPORATION
Denver and Oakland

WICKWIRE SPENCER STEEL DIVISION
Buffalo, New York

  

 

 
 

REALOCK FENCE

THE COLORADO FUEL AND IRON CORPORATION
BRANCHES IN ALL KEY CITIES 6464

  
       
  




 

Like many of our readers the ASPCA does not approve
of training any animal if cruel training methods

are used. But the scientiﬁc methods developed

by psychologists Marian and Keller Breland, and
based on their study of animal behaviorism, shows

that animals can be trained with kindness.

and another in which a Casey-at-the-Bat
chicken hangs out home runs.

All this is accomplished with what the
Brelands call the “new animal psychology,”
involving such principles as reinforcement
stimulus, extinction, discrimination and dif-
ferentiation. But in everyday parlance, it all
boils down to this: good work is rewarded.
But the trick isn’t merely the reward—it’s
when and how you give it. Furthermore,
the Brelands say anyone with a basic knowl-
edge of this method can train his own pet.

Many people don’t approve of performing
animals used for entertainment. Cruel train-
ing methods certainly justify this criticism.
But a realistic appraisal points up the fact
that performing animals will be around for
a long time. So the Breland scientiﬁc method
may have great potential importance in the
humane training of animals.

Here’s how an animal is actually trained.
Suppose you want to teach a chicken to turn
the pages of a magazine. The heart of the
training is an electric feeder or “reinforc-
er” which Mr. Breland has developed. The
small box contains a buzzer, a hopper ﬁlled
with feed and an electrical mechanism
which drops about a dozen grains of feed

into a trough when a button is pushed.

Mr. Breland puts the feeder next to the
chicken on a table. First he pushes the but-
ton, the buzzer sounds and a few grains of
feed drop into the trough. The chicken
whirls around, spots the feed and eats it.
This is repeated a few times until the chick-
en gets the idea that the buzzer means food.
Then he places a wire rack on the table and
leans against it an open magazine with
dog-earred corners.

He “reinforces” her only when she looks
or walks at random toward the magazine.
Then he buzzes her quick. After a dozen
such reinforcements she develops a deﬁnite
pattern: from the trough to the magazine,
buzz and she whirls to eat her feed.

Next step is getting her to look at the
folded corners, called isolating a point, the
most difficult part. When she does it at ran-
dom she is immediately reinforced. After a
dozen shots she ﬁnally gets the idea and
walks up to the corners every time. Then
suddenly reinforcment is withheld. She is
so disappointed she pecks viciously at the
turned-down page and immediately is re-
warded.

(Continued on Page I 9)

7

 

 




 

 

The Adventures of Rufus

Once upon a hot summer day a rare bird
escaped from a New York pet shop. Rufus, a
red-necked ho‘rnbill, was on his way from
Thailand to a St. Louis zoo when he ﬂew out
of the shop window and went sight-seeing in
New York. While Rufus was adventurously
winging his way around skyscrapers on
Wall Street, ASPCA’S Joseph Schlesinger set
out to catch the hornbill.

Their merry two-day chase has now been
told in a delightful children’s book (adults
will love it, too). We reprint some pictures

from Rufus, the Red-Necked Hornbill, pub-

lished by Coward-McCann, Inc., ($2.95),

with text by Patricia Lauber, and illustrated
by Polly Cameron.

 

Mr. Schlesinger arrived in an animal
ambulance. He had a net on the end of
a very long pole.

10

Q Q Q Q M

Q @ .@ WE
nnn@@[

mm“?

 

\i

"'I\ - I -, ‘ ,.'. .kwil’"
. ' “it.““i't’it -' l $13.: WW,» ' .9 9?
WM“ “m limit“ “31%; ‘ if ﬂ
’\ ‘R‘ . ‘
'\

Jl

  
 

 

Rufus wanted to see the town. Every-
where he went, hundreds of people
gathered in the Street to stare up at him.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Down came the net. Off ﬂew Rufus.

 




 

 

 

 

THE
GREAT
OUTDOORS

An eminent surgeon and gynecologist, Dr.
Frank Richard Oastler was also one of the
great naturalists of our time. When he died
in 1936 at the age of 65, he left behind a
wealth of studies and photographs of the
ﬂora and fauna of America’s great western
mountains and plains.

Each summer for more than 25 years he
spent three or four months traveling by pack-
train among the wildest and most beautiful
mountains in the west. He and his wife

Maude, who always accompanied her hus-

band, came to know every peaceful valley,
deep canyon and rugged peak along the
Great Divide between the Colorado and the

Yukon Rivers. He photographed the rare

trumpeter swan, the big horn sheep, the
hummingbird, the busy beaver, the woodland
caribou, the moose, elk and the grizzly hear.
The result was one of the most valuable col-

lections of nature photographs in the world,
consisting of some 5,000 stills and 80,000

feet of motion pictures.

Ardently opposed to hunting and killing
animals for sport, he fathered the conserva-
tion of the wilds. In this humanitarian ap-
proach he had a staunch and loyal advocate

in Mrs. Oastler, who shares his love of

nature and is one of the truest friends of

animals and the ASPCA.
We are grateful to Mrs. Oastler for per-
mission to reprint one of her husband’s best-

known poems, all of which express his
devotion to the great outdoors.

111.

Oh, give me a bit of the great outdoors
I s all that I ask of you,

Where I may do whatever I like
And like whatever I do.

Where the sky is the boundary up above
And the earth is the measure below,
And the trail starts on where the sun comes

up
And ends where the sun sinks low.

Where the wind blows sweet as a baby’s
breath.
And the sun shines bright as its eyes,
And the showers come and the showers go
As the tears when the little one cries.

And the brook runs merrily through the
glade,
Singing its gladdening song,
And the pine trees murmur their soothing
sighs,
Still bearing that song along.
Yes, carry me back to the lake’s white shores
With its deer and its lily pad.
Where the loon calls out ’mid the moonbeams
bright
Through the mist on the waters sad.

Let me hear once more the elk’s far cry
As it sweeps through the forest deep,

Where silence hangs as over the dead
At rest in eternal sleep.

I’ll pitch my tent by some lonesome pine,
By the rippling waters edge, _

With the great outdoors as my garden,
And the willows ’round as my hedge.

And surrounded by pretty ﬂowers,
That perfume the gentle breeze
I’ll idle away the whole long day,
In the shade of my old pine trees.

And I’ll watch on yonder mountain
The colors change with the day
And I’ll follow each shadow a’creeping

So silently over its way.

And then give thanks to the God above
And in gratitude I’ll pause,

And I’ll love, not hate, each care that comes
In that great big home —— Outdoors. I

Frank R. Oastler

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

The battle of the puddle

Housebreaking is the ﬁrst major hurdle
for puppies. And for owners, it demands
patience, persistence and ﬁrmness.

Since puppies have to relieve themselves
12 to 15 times a day, the battle is usually a
losing one if you try to wage it before the
dog is three months old. The only possible
thing to do with a newly-acquired puppy is
to paper break him ﬁrst.

Pick a small room —— bathroom or hallway
will do. Spread several thicknesses of paper
over the entire floor. For the next few weeks
this is where the puppy should stay most of
the time. After a While he will pick out a
special corner for use and return to it over
and over again.

Gradually remove a few papers from
around the edges, leaving a little soiled paper
as a reminder. A puppy must be watched
carefully, for he’s apt to squat without
warning. The trick is to catch him in the
act. Throw a magazine near him to startle
him, pick him up and put him on the paper.
If he makes a mistake, scold him immedi-
ately, not ﬁve minutes or even two minutes
later. Never spank a puppy and never rub
his nose in it.

Remember that a young puppy does not
have full control. Accidents may happen
when he’s frightened, happy or excited. But
as he grows older, his instinct for cleanliness
increases. He will be particularly reluctant
to soil his own sleeping quarters.

At about four months begin taking him
out. Set up a regular schedule — ﬁrst thing

in the morning, last thing at night, after
meals and about every two hours in between.
Also watch him carefully for certain signs.
He will sniff, circle or act uneasy. Immedi-
ately pick him up and carry him out to the
street. Take along some newspapers to give
him the general idea of what you’re after.
Then wait until he performs properly. Praise
and pat him immediately and take him
indoors.

As he begins to catch on, take him to a
different spot each time. Gradually eliminate
the papers. Give the dog plenty of affection
throughout. Be liberal with your praise when
he does well. As for mistakes on the new
beige carpet, clean them thoroughly with
soap and water and a strong-smelling dis-
infectant, so he won’t be tempted to repeat
the mishap.

Housebroken dogs new to the household
may be a problem at the beginning. Strange
voices, a new bed and an unfamiliar house
can make a very homesick animal. Give him
time to get acquainted and gain his con-
ﬁdence.

When a dog is ill take him out more often,
or give him a spread of newspapers indoors.
As a matter of fact, it’s handy for all grown
dogs to be paper trained, as well as house
trained. It’s a convenience in hotels or train
compartments.

After being housebroken a dog should be
able to restrain himself four to ﬁve hours.
But don’t try to make him do it any longer,
as such a practice is bad for the bladder.

17

 

 

 




 

 

 

WHY NOT GIVE A
LIVING GIFT?

If you are thinking of helping others
why not make a donation of an

AXE-HOUGHTON FUND

There is probably one that would be
ideal for the purpose:

THE
AXE-HOUGHTON
§ FUNDS: “A”
A‘B"
“STOCK"

 

, AXE SCIENCE
£1? & ELECTRONICS
CORPORATION

 

AXE-TEMPLETON GROWTH
FUND OF CANADA, LTD.

 

For Free Information Send Letter or Post-Card to:

AXE SECURITIES CORPORATION

TARRYTOWN, N. Y.

 

 

 

Rhino may become extinct

The one-horned rhinoceros, royal beast of
Nepal, is facing extinction. Poachers have
been killing the rhino for its single horn,
famous throughout the East as a love potion.
The horn brings $1,200 to $2,600. It is
ground into powder and widely used as an
aphrodisiac and antidote to poison by the
Chinese, Burmese and Siamese. Rhinoceros
blood is highly valued as a medicine. The
skin and horn are used for Hindu worship.

The African elephant may be facing the
same fate. The remains of 3,000 slaughtered
elephants were recently found in one isolated
pocket of British East Africa.

The wholesale slaughter, described as the
“greatest ever recorded,” came to light dur-
ing an extensive campaign waged by police,
who caught and convicted 4.29 poachers.

The ASPCA has several times written the
British government protesting these merciless
and useless killings.

20

 

IN THE NEWS PARADE

ANIMAL ANTICS

In Asheville, N. C., a man convicted of
drunkenness for the 156th time was paroled
in custody of his faithful part-shepherd dog.
This judgment was typical of some recent
mixed-up man and animal situations.

New York police who raided a Harlem
bottle club found one of the occupants, a dog,
wearing a mink jacket and a diamond-
studded collar. In WVest Frankfort, Ill., ﬁre-
men had to rescue their pet dalmatian,
Blazes, when it went swimming in a pond.
In Blackpool, England, an eight-month-old
bloodhound wandered away from home and
was lost for a whole day.

England, particularly, has been plagued
with animal problems. When a dog sneaked
into a Hamstead movie theatre and took an
aisle seat, the owner explained that his dog
loved the theatre, especially the ballet. In
Nottingham, the SPCA was called in to res-
cue a colony of fat cats that strayed through
a fence into a World War II bombsite and
couldn’t get out. The cats were thin when
they went in, but ofﬁce workers had been
feeding them and they got so fat they
couldn’t squeeze out.

An Almwick man was jailed for a year for
selling his mother’s pet parakeets for $8.40
for beer money. Another Britisher, a patron
of the Nag’s Head, was arrested for trying
to lift a white horse.

 

 




 

 

 

PRODUCTS AND SERVICES

 

 

 

 

 

 

ANIMAL PORTRAITS DOG TRAINING
ANIMAL PORTRAITS, Oils on canvas or velveteen . . . Pastels
Leola Moss
2415 Kirby Street Dallas, Texas CANINE COLLEGE
CATNIP TRAINING —- TRIMMING — SUPPLIES
Catnip 2 packages of seeds 4 plants or | pint dried BOARDING
leaves $l. 00. l lb. leaves ect for toys pads $2. 00 post- .
paid. Garden fresh. BOHNS Rt. 2. Napoleon Ohio 426W EYOI‘k CLUE; Conn. Office
9 . 86+ . WEST REDDING. CONN.
DOG & CAT FOOD TRatalgar 6-24l7 WEbster 8-2l24
FE CE
C A L - C O D N
ALUMINUM, BETHANIZED AND
D O G M E A L GALVANIZED CHAIN WIRE FENCE
Kennels - Playground - School - Parking
57I8—48‘I‘I‘l Street Maspeth 78, N. Y. Lots - Erected Anywhere At Reasonable
STIIIweII 6-2468 PrIce - Up to 5 Years to Pay

 

 

INTER-FENCE COMPANY
lO5-45—I58th St., Jamaica, L. l., Tel. OLympIa 8-7l76

 

 

ALPO. CHUNKY. CADILLAC. BIG BET
Dog and Cat Foods . . -

KITTY LITTER. KLEEN KITTY, etc. “gnghIIngn _ WIREOINEIFO

ANDREW GOETZ'S SONS. INC. I only I manure to set

' ‘ . “'ZI‘IIII' --*.';I'I'" I up or take down.
1144 FIushrng Avenue Brooklyn 37, N.Y. .. | ’ . Available in 4, 6 and

 

   

 

  
      

 
 

    

        
 

 
     
 

 

HYacrnth 7-5500 ‘IIII":HIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIMIIIW 8 panels. Height: 2V2
"IdmIIIIIIIu. IIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII) ft, 3 ft. or 3V2 “-

 

 
 

II'II'III" "'IIIIII'" Write for circular AP

:-.C0 Mt. VernonN. Y-

WAGNER BROS. FEED OORP.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  
  

 

 

 

 

Importers and Distributors PET SUPPLIES
KEEP YOUR PETS
1160 MYRTLE AVE. BROOKLYN 21. N. Y. FREE OF FLEAS
GI-enmre 5-2719 TICKS. MITES. ETC. SPRAY THEM WITH
M I T - E - K I L
THE WELL DRESSED DOGS SHOP AT HINTON & CO.. INC.
P O O D I. E T O W N 67 MURRAY ST.. NEW YORK CITY
We carry a complete line of all dog accessories, TROPICAL FISH FOOD
ready made and custom made
FREE CATALOG ON REQUEST PROTECT THE HEALTH AND WELL-BEING
920 PARK AVE. NEW YORK 2I. N. Y. 0F YECII'IIGI’LEIIE®WITH
Tel' LEh'gh 5-0450 AQUARIUM FISH FOODS AND REMEDIES
DOG & CAT NOVELTIES .
Longlife FISh Food Products
I4KT. SOLID GOLD 707 New York Ave. Union City, N. J.
HIS NAME CHARM! BEAUTIFULLY
ENGRAVED 0 SET WITH SAPPHIRE
OR RUBY 0 ATTACHES TO COLLAR. YOUR FISH ARE WHAT THEY EAT
check or Money 0rder,10 Day Del. Do as the breeders do.
-> 3/4”12.50inc.taxICHARLES KEMPER USE A COOKED FOOD
SEND 1” 14-00 “‘C- I” 7‘ We“ 47 Street Demand PEEKSKILL FOOD at your dealer.
NAME Chains Available New York 36, N. Y. 100% pure, 100% nutritious.
DOG KENNELS Send for free literature.

 

Box A-5. Jeﬁerson Valley. N. Y.

 

 

 

 

TEMPERAMENT! TYPE! TRAINABILITY!

CH. MNDAXIMIAN VON GROSSLAND

DHlS SIRE AT STUD FISH
cu. OUESTOR MAXIMIAM v GROSSLAND
UDT FOOD

0 BEAUTIFUL PUPPIES and ADULT founda-

 

 

 

 

 

tion stock available. .-
Temperament guaranteed For The "CARRIAGE TRADE
_ GROSSLAND KENNELS, Reg. Cannibal MIX FosterFry
. James E. Grosselin Liver Projein TId BII’IS( N J
OrangebIIrg Road, Old Tappan, R..D 1, Westwood, N. J. 10 Magnolla SI'. Newar . . .
Tel. CLoster 5-1768

 

 

r)
2 I‘)

 




has Red Beef Protein
in all 3 flavors!

In every can of
Red Heart there’s the
same red beef protein.
Flavors are added, for

dogs who think they’re

people—who want taste
variety, just as you do.
Your dog needs
Red Heart!

 

BEEF FLAVOR

 

 

 

FISH FLAVOR

 

 

 

LIVER FLAVOR

 

 




