 

 

 

 

 

 

 

@MEE‘ORMS

HOBSON & SONS
(LONDON) LTD

All enquiries to

154-164 TOOLEY STREET
LONDON BRIDGE S.E.1

Telephone: HOP 2476 (4 lines)
Telegrams: HOBSON, BOROH, LON DON

Manufacturers of

UNIFORM CLOTHING
CAPS HELMETS LEATHER
BELTS POUCHES etc. etc.

Gold and Silver Laces
Embroideries of every
description for ALL
UNIFORMED SERVICES

PATTERNS or CLOTH
and ESTIMATES
will be forwarded free of charge

 

 

 

 

 

NO FLAG DAY?

Never mind—Try this!

Branches unable, for any reason,
to organize a Flag Day are reminded
that a

HOUSE TO HOUSE COLLECTION

is an excellent alternative

Write for details to:
ChiefSecretary, RSPCA, 105 Jermyn Street, London, SW1

 

 

 

FLAG DAY

   
  
   
   

GOODS
Celluloid Buttons

LIST 0N APPLICATION

THE UNIVERSAL BUTTON CO. LTD.
1.9 Birkbeck Street, Bethnal Green, LONDON, 13.2 i
Telephone: BIShopsgate 5750

 

    

Telegrams: ‘Unibutco Edo’

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

TEMPLE COX CAPTIVE

BOLT SLAUGHTERING
GUNS

Specially recommended and used by the RSPCA

THREE MODELS—ALL SILENT IN
ACTION

‘UNIVERSAL’ for all animals
‘SMALLS’ for all small animals
‘MARK 6’ for all animals. Designed for heavy

use in large Abattoirs and Freezing Works

TEMPLE COX DEVELOPMENT CO. LTD
HIGH STREET, BROMLEY, KENT

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

February 1954

he was invited to open the market by Miss Ethel Rees,
branch hon sec, he said that he could not refuse since she
and other members of the branch had given encouragement
when the inaugural meeting of the Aberkenﬁg auxiliary was
held. Mrs E. B. Newman, branch chairman, was present.
Gloucestershire—East, and Cheltenham Three children
have been made honorary members of the Animal Defenders
for acts of kindness. Olivia Dell and Elizabeth Clayton stood
by an injured stray dog until the RSPCA Inspector arrived;
Sandra Jane Perrett was made an honorary member for all
the kindness she had shown to animals.

Huntingdonshire and March Area A jumble sale in the
March auxiliary raised £18 103. 7d. for branch funds.
Kent—Canterbury and District A rummage sale which
raised £39 75. 5d, for clinic funds, was organized by Mrs
Crisp, who was helped by Mrs Miles, as well as members of
the branch committee and friends.

*

Helped by her mother and by Mr Dadd, Miss V. Slings-
bury, Whitstable aux hon sec, organized a jumble sale and
raised £59 113. 2d, for branch funds.

Lancashire—East and Blackburn At the annual Christmas
show and sale at Blackburn, the RSPCA challenge cup was
won by Mr R. H. Kellett.

Lincolnshire—Mid and Lincoln Miss Harrison, branch hon
sec, was pleased with the large attendance at the branch an—
nual meeting. Mr Harry White, RSPCA Council Member,
gave a talk. A report on the year’s work was read by Inspector
Silcock. Mr H. E. Cooke, hon treasurer, submitted the
ﬁnancial report.

Liverpool A bazaar organized by members of the Wallasey
Dogs’ Home and Cats’ Shelter and Wallasey Animal Clinic
Sub-Committee, held at Roycroft Hall, raised £91 for branch
funds. A bazaar ar the Central Hall, Liverpool, organized by
the Animals’ Day Guild, raised £240. The Lady Mayores-s
of Liverpool, Mrs F. E. Vyvyan, performed the opening
ceremony, and Mr Robert James, member of the Liverpool
Playhouse Repertory, performed the same ceremony for
the second day of the sale.

Llangollen, Chirk and Glynceiriog Division Mrs Gilbert
(division hon treasurer) reports: Miss Morris, Trevor and
Garth aux hon sec, organized a whist drive and raised £20
for branch funds. .
Newcastle-upon-Tyne All members of the Amble committee
attended a pantomime given in Amble Parish Hall for the
RSPCA. The pantomime was organized by Mrs Stewart, Mr
Jackson and Mr Charlton, and the Happy-go-Lucky Players
of Amble. A vote of thanks was given at the end by the
Amble aux chairman, Mrs Lewis. The sum of £19 was raised
for branch funds.

Norfolk—Mid and Norwich A bring-and-buy sale organized
by Miss Buchanan, Sheringham aux hon sec, raised £26 for
branch funds.

Norfolk West Miss Ann Lambert organized a whist drive
and dance in the Church Hall, Magdalen, and, raised ap-
proximately £7 for branch funds. Prizes were presented to
the winners by Mrs Everett, a member of the King’s Lynn
and District auxiliary committee. Thanks were expressed by
Senior Inspector Morrison.

Nottingham and Notts Miss B. J. Bertram, sister of the
late Miss R. E. Bertram, formerly hon sec of Worksop
auxiliary, sends the following report:

Concerning Miss Rosamond Elizabeth Bertram, late hon
secretary, Worksop auxiliary, RSPCA: from her earliest
childhood a lover of animals, with a singular power of
gaining their love and trust, she was, whilst 1n her teens, a
member of the Worksop branch of the Band of Mercy, and
even then was a sincere and earnest worker for it. After the
Band of Mercy had fallen into abeyance for a considerable
time, the need for some protective work for animals was
often discussed in our family circle, and my sister decided to
try to interest various known animal lovers in establishing a
a branch of the RSPCA. A meeting was called on June 16th,
1925, at which the Band of Mercy was wound up and a

THE ANIMAL WORLD ' 21

41

branch of the RSPCA inaugurated. The funds of the Band of
Mercy (£8 3s. 9d.) were transferred to the RSPCA.

From this time onward, she became a most active worker
for animal welfare. On November 7, 1933, she was ap-
pointed honorary secretary and treasurer. She held these
positions honourably and brilliantly for 19% years. Her policy
was to bring immediate help to suffering creatures. It was
not sufficient in her estimation to report a case to an In—
spector; she would go at once on hearing of a case to try to
bring some alleviation personally to unfortunate animals or
birds. She has faced danger, darkness, cold, fatigue, ignor-
ance and all the manifold difﬁculties of such work, with joy
in the thought that she was bringing happiness to some
little dumb friend. Her success was remarkable. Her manner
was gentle and pleading, wherein, probably, lay much of her
strength. Rescue work was her great delight. Many ‘impos-
sible’ cases have yielded to her efforts, and the suffering, sad,
outcast, unwanted creature has become the beloved pet in
some kind home. For many years she took over the Police
Station strays and managed to get them placed suitably—a
colossal work in itself!

As a treasurer she was a splendid organizer, and handed
over to her successor a sum of £633 143. 10d. It was her
great wish to remain in office until a successor had volun-
teered to take over the work, although for many months she
had felt that her health was giving way. In April, 1953, came
a complete breakdown. The doctors told her to give up all
work which she could possibly resign, and her own opinion
was that she could not carry on the work any longer. So in
May, with greatest regret, she offered her resignation.

The presentation was ﬁxed for September 17, and she re-
ceived a silver badge of merit and a certiﬁcate for meritorious
service from the RSPCA, with a purse of notes from her ad-
miring public. The presentation was made by Lord Grey de
Ruthyn, the chairman, and many friends were present, lavish
in their appreciation of her work. This was her last appear-
ance in public. She was, by this time, scarcely strong enough
to stand the strain of the meeting, but was deeply touched
and comforted to know that her work had been so highly
valued. On September 29 she passed quietly away, deeply
regretted by all who had known her.

Mrs Devonshire, Kirkby-in—Ashﬁeld aux hon sec, reports
a bring—and-buy sale raised the sum of £50. Mrs Devonshire
also says there was an extremely good attendance at the annual
meeting as well as the presentation of medals and social
evening at which Mr Harry White, Council Member, was
present, along with Colonel Clifton, the branch chairman.
Peterborough and District Mrs Towns of Ashwell, near
Oakham, organized a dance at the Ashwell Village Hall and
raised £35 4s. 6d. for branch funds.
Preston and District Mrs Kay, branch hon sec, reports that
a Christmas competition raised about £67 for branch funds.
Rotherham and District The Viscountess Galway, branch
president, took the chair at the branch annual meeting. Lord
Grey de Ruthyn was the guest speaker. The meeting opened
with a prayer said by the Vicar of Thurcroft, the Rev K. F.
Kinns, and silence was observed for members and officials
who had died in recent months. The Vicar of Whiston, the
Rev Redrobe, was present, as were Councillor L. Tarbitt,
Alderman Mrs Green, JP (branch chairman), Mr and Mrs
C. A. Stevens, Chief Inspector Farmer of Rotherham
West Riding Police, Mrs Pratt and Mrs Bayley. Praise was
voiced for the work of Miss Collinson, branch hon sec. Mr
C. A. Stevens, branch hon treasurer, reported that branch
funds were in a healthy state. Senior Inspector Young
reported 62 convictions during the year.

Mrs Mitchell of T hurcroft, near Rotherham, has raised
£5 5s. for branch funds by making and selling toffee squares.

*
Mrs Mitchell of Thurcroft, and Miss Smith of Laughton
Common, held a collection at Thurcroft Main colliery and
raised £7 10s. 11d. for branch funds.

 




February 1954

OBITUARY

’ With sincere regret we report the following

deaths:

Mrs Campbell, hon sec of Liphook auxiliary
and former hon sec Alton, Haslemere, Petersﬁeld
and District branch; Col C. J. Lloyd—Carson,
president, Merioneth branch; Mr A. W. Knight,
assistant hon sec, Thrybergh auxiliary; Miss
E. M. Raeburn, president, St John Partridge
Memorial clinic; Mrs Bullingham, former hon
sec, Glemsford auxiliary; the Rev H. D. S.
Sweetapple Horlock, a supporter; Miss S.

7 Safford, a supporter.

A TIMELY VISIT
A visit made recently by one of the RSPCA
school lecturers could not have been more timely.
These lecturers talk on the general care of animals
likely to be encountered by their listeners. At this
particular school the headmaster had recently
acquired a goat!

THE ANIMAL WORLD 19

Since the lastreport 87 lectures have beengiven in
Pembrokeshire, Glamorgan, Surrey, Sussex, Kent,
Devon, Yorkshire, Dorset, Hertfordshire, Dinton
(Bucks), Leighton Buzzard, Wallingford, Old—
ham and the London area. The Greenford Young
Conservatives, a Church Youth Group in
Mitcham, and the Hartley ‘Animal Defender
Group (near Gravesend), were also addressed.

Twentyasix new Animal Defender groups were
formed; 148 children joined the Headquarters
Group.

 

ASHTEAD MARKET RAISES
OVER £435
As reported in ‘Branch News’, the Christ—
mas Market held in Ashtead Auxiliary
raised the remarkable sum of £435 103. 9d.

 

 

 

 

BRANCH NEWS

Balham and Tooting Mrs E. F. Taylor, Balham Clinic co
hon sec, reports: The annual sale in aid of the clinic funds
was held early in November. Committee members and others
ran Canasta and whist drives previous to the sale and, on
the day of the sale, stall-holders had most attractive wares to
offer the public. A grand total of £120 0s. 6d. was a very
pleasing result for all the hard work and organization and,
with competitions, teas and a ‘white elephant’ stall, the sale
afforded a pleasant social as well as a proﬁtable afternoon.
Barnet and District A whist drive organized by Mrs Heather,
Northaw aux hon sec, raised £3 6s. 6d. for branch funds.
Berkshire——Newbury and District A bridge drive organized
at the Chequers by Mrs Sanderson, Mrs Laycock and
Mrs Waites, branch hon sec, raised about £15 for branch
funds. Prizes were given by Mr Trotman, Mr Freeman,
Mr Hope, Mrs East and Mr de Castro.

Blackpool At a meeting held in the Spiritualist Church,
Blackpool, Mr A. F. Warner, branch chairman, presented a
cup and four medals to landau owners who had best ob-
served the Landau Horses Charter.

Bristol and District A whist drive organized by Mrs Ellis
at her home in Stoke Bishop raised £9 23. for branch funds.
Bromley and District (Kent) The Hill Drama Club of
Biggin Hill, presented ‘Flowers for the Living’ in aid of
Biggin Hill clinic funds. Mrs Duck, co aux hon sec, at-
tended. The cast and producer were thanked for an excellent
production by Senior Inspector Goodenough.

The Mayor of Bromley, Councillor Leighton L. Irwin,
presented to Mr Eirwen Jones and to a boy named Harry
Goldsmith, awards for their bravery in rescuing a cat from a
tree. Mr Jones received the RSPCA’s bronze medal and
certiﬁcate and Harry received a book. The rescue was
described by Senior Inspector Goodenough.

Mrs E. Grimshaw, Petts Wood aux hon sec, reports that a
bring-and-buy sale raised £233 0s. 5d. to help the various
activities of the RSPCA.

The Reindeer and Whippet Group of Animal Defenders
gave a concert to help RSPCA work at St John’s Parish
Hall, Bromley. Mrs Hockley, the group leader, wrote both
sketches and produced the one given by Reindeer Group.

Miss Shirley Farnell produced that given by the Whippet
Group. Miss Farnell is the leader of this group and was
assisted by Miss Hodgson. Michael Whitehead, a 12-year-old
Animal Defender, entertained with a piano recital. A collec-
tion amounting to £1 4s. 4d. was taken. Among those present
were Mrs Hill, branch hon sec; Mrs Sharrock, assistant
branch hon sec; Mr Dixon and Senior Inspector and Mrs
Goodenough.

Buckinghamshire Mrs Tew, Newport Pagnell and Shering-
ton aux hon sec, organized a rummage sale and raised
£45 135. 6d. for branch funds. This sum included £3 103.
raised by Mrs Chappell, Wolverton aux hon sec, and £2 25.
was raised by Mrs Siggs, Haversham aux hon sec. Mrs
Chappell and Mrs Siggs were reported by Mrs Tew as giving
much help in organizing the sale.

Cardiganshire Mrs D. Evans, Council Member, organized
a coffee party and raised £24 103. for branch funds.
Carmarthenshire Mr A. C. Michell, branch hon sec, re-
ports: Miss G. David, Laugharne aux hon sec, raised during
last autumn—collection £12 16s. 03., whist drive, etc.,
£16 5s. 8d. (assisted by the Women’s Institute of which she is
the president), a total of £29 ls. 8d.

Cornwall——West Among eight people who received
RSPCA awards for courage and humanity in rescuing dogs
was 13-year-old Frank Knowles. He received a book and a
framed certiﬁcate for gallantry in descending a waterlogged
quarry to rescue the dog. Others receiving awards were
Inspector J. T. Greenhalgh, Lt M. Baizley and Sgt E.
Harrison, Coastguards Bridger, Stanley and Chinner, and
District Ofﬁcer Stanbury. The awards were made by Mrs
M. K. F. Thornley, branch president.

The branch chairman, Mr H. Segal, spoke of activities
undertaken by the Society during 1952. Mr L. J. R. S.
Hamilton, secretary of the Society for the Prevention of
Accidents in Disused Mineshafts, spoke of the increase in
cruelty to animals particularly cruelty perpetrated by chil-
dren. He said that Mrs D. Williams—Pearce, branch hon
sec, and her committee were alarmed by the lack of response
in Cornwall to offset things happening in this district.
Coventry and District Mrs D’Arcy Tremlett, Nuneaton
aux hon sec, reports that the Animal Defenders dog show
organized by Miss Wright raised £10 for branch funds.
The' Mayor acted as judge, assisted by the Mayoress, who
presented the silver cup and other prizes. The auxuliary’s
usual yearly rummage sale raised £26. Miss Audrey Spiers,
of Nuneaton, once again gave to the branch the proceeds

 




 

 

 

THE ANIMAL WORLD 17

 

 

”727m.

February 1954

    
   

 

~

I _
_ __ i ‘
v \

P.C. BIRD'LOVER PRAISED FOR CARE
OF GOLDFINCH
A young Dudley policeman was described by a
solicitor as a great bird—lover who was to be con—
glratlulated on the way he had looked after a gold
nc 1.

The defendant, brought by the RSPCA before
the Magistrates at Dudley on an offence under
the Protection of Birds Act, 1925, admitted keep—
ing the bird in a cage not big enough to enable her
to stretch her wings fully. He was ﬁned £1 and
ordered to pay £3 35. costs.

A solicitor prosecuting for the RSPCA said
that the policersergeant saw the goldﬁnch in a
cage 71% in. wide and 5%; in. high. The wing span
of the goldﬁnch was seven inches. The bird was in
a very bad condition. Her feathers lacked lustre,
she had lost a number of her ﬂying feathers, and
was unable to ﬂy from perch to perch when put
into a larger cage. ‘Damage is done to birds when
they cannot fully extend their wings,’ said the
solicitor. .

The defendant had told the Police~sergeant that
the bird had been in the cage only three or four
days, but she had obviously been there longer.
(Inspector Griffiths, A.7641.)

STARLINGS’ VICTORY
Answering a Question in Parliament from Mr
Dodds, MP, who asked how many starlings had
been caught in and around Trafalgar Square since
the campaign was initiated to control these birds,
Mr Nugent, Joint Parliamentary Secretary to the
Ministry {of Agriculture, said that the attempts
made a year ago to catch starlings in cages at
their roosting places were unsuccessful. The
cost was about £200. Mr Nugent added: ‘No
further action in this matter is contemplated.’

WILD BIRD SHOT
An RSPCA prosecution alleging the unlawful
killing of a wild bird was heard at Swadlincote
Magistrates’ Court.

It was alleged that two young women saw a
bird lying in the road. They picked her up and
found her badly injured.

One of them took the bird home and showed
it to her father, who, seeing the condition,
destroyed the bird.

Later the young woman saw a man near the
house and, when asked if he was looking for a
bird, he replied: ‘Yes’. The matter was reported
to Inspector Jones, and when seen by the In—
spector the defendant said: ‘I thought it was a
sparrow. Anyway I can shoot it if I want to.’

   

 

The defendant was ﬁned 55. and ordered to
pay £2 23. costs. (A.7571. Inspector Jones, 165.)

A STARLING’S BEST FRIEND
The story of an unusual friendship comes from
Mrs Donovan, branch hon sec of Essex—Mid.
A school sent for her to collect an injured
starling.

Mrs Donovan then tells the story:

‘I could ﬁnd no sign of injury, but the bird
could not walk or ﬂy. I kept her in the warm and
fed her carefully and soon she was using her
legs and wings more normally.

‘After a week I stopped putting her in a basket
at night and here is the strange thing: I could not
ﬁnd out where she spent the night, though she
always came to eat when I called her. I then found
out by using a torch that she went into the
covered box of my bull—terrier and slept at the
back. Then I noticed she always went to this old
dog when frightened, even though there is a
second, younger and gentler dog in the kitchen.
Eventually the bird spent each night under the
dog’s jowl. She used to wriggle herself into this
strange and seemingly dangerous bed after the
dog had settled to sleep. I sat and watched to
prove to myself that the old girl really allowed
such liberties.

‘The bird grew strong and one day ﬂew away.’

 

Picture by courtesy of London Evening News

Two injured puﬂins leave RSPCA Headquarters for care
at the RSPCA Bird Hospital, Mousehole

 

 

 




 

 

February 1954

THE ANIMAL WORLD 23

 

 

waiting for treatment at the time of the visit, so the clinic
was seen under worklng condition.

A Christmas dance at Copthorne organized by Mrs
Mitchell, aux hon sec, raised £102 25. A jumble sale at Mid-
hurst organized by Mrs Lush, aux hon sec, made £68 105.,
and a whist drive at Thakeham, organized by Miss J ohnson,
aux hon sec, at which Mrs White, wife of Chief Inspector
White, presented the prizes, raised £30. '
Torquay and South-East Devon The Mayor of Totnes
opened the Animal Defenders Christmas fair at Harberton,
South Devon. Lady Harvey, Totnes aux'hon sec, Mrs Dodds,
branch hon sec, and Mr Ault, branch chairman, were
present. Later RSPCA ﬁlms were shown in the Parish Hall
and Chief Inspector Butterworth gave a talk on the work and
aims of the RSPCA.

*

Mrs M. V. Dodds, branch hon sec, reports that a Christ-
mas fair in Torquay raised £170 for the branch clinic.
Vale of Mowbray A Christmas bazaar organized at Ley-
burn by Miss Sharples, branch hon sec, with the help of
Mr A. Campbell, St Mary’s Mount, Leyburn, raised
£112 35. 7d. for branch funds. The bazaar was held at the
home of Miss Sharples and was opened by the branch presi-
dent and chairman, the Viscountess Swinton, who presented
the RSPCA’s merit certiﬁcate to Mr H. Peel, who received it
on behalf of all the men who helped in the rescue of a horse
at the 0rd and Maddison’s quarries.
Warwickshire—South and East Mrs Whitehead, Shipston-
on-Stour aux hon sec, organized whist drives in her own
house and raised £23 175. 8d. for branch funds.
West Bromwich and Wednesbury A jumble sale organized
by Mrs Haywood, branch hon sec, raised £20 125. for branch
Ends. A whist drive organized by Mr H. Burrows raised
. 6s.
Weston-super-Mare Division Miss E. R. Dix organized a
ﬁlm show for Animal Defenders in Winscombe. Wing-
Commander H. Hiller, DFC, branch organizer, spoke to the
children.
Wiltshire—North Mrs Wheeler, branch hon sec, reports:
A Christmas competition raised £230 for branch funds.
Wiltshire—Salisbury and District Mrs Painter, of Picket
Piece, near Andover, organized a whist drive and raised
£4 17s. 661. for branch funds. Prizes were presented by
Mrs Braime, Andover aux” hon sec.
Yorkshire—Barnsley and District A play, ‘The Paragon,’
produced by Mrs L. C. Grocock, was presented at the
Technical College, Barnsley, for a week and raised about £50
for branch funds. *

A bring-and-buy sale organized by Miss P. Parker and
Mrs White was held at the home of Miss Parker and
raised £33 6s. 1061. for branch funds.

Yorkshire—Bradford and District Miss Hall, branch
secretary, reports that a bring-and-buy sale held at the
home of Mrs Smare raised £17 for branch funds.

RSPCA FILM NEWS
The Society’s ﬁlms were sent to the following places for
showing recently:

Bedlington, Barking, Stonebroom, Crowborough, Totten—
.ham, Coventry, Cardiff, Audlem, Sale, Gosforth, N. Ken—
~Sington, Brentwood, Aylesbury, Sheerness, Dagenham,
Romford, Narberth, Birmingham, Herne Bay, Exeter, Birk—
~dale, Skelmersdale, Scunthorpe, Maidenhead, Milnthorpe,
.Ashton—under—Lyne, Lymington, Wath upon Dearne,
Bangor, Blackburn, Eastleigh, High Wycombe, Manea,
Leeds, Hungerford, Hawkhurst, Wenlock Edge, Derby,
\Seaford, Wadhurst, Rotherham, Malton, Horsham, East,
bourne, Didcot, Northampton, Morecambe and Heysham,
‘Ilkley, Farnham, Nuneaton, Rugby, Mitcham, Acle, Bide—
fOl‘d, Folkestone, Bournemouth, Sparshott, Awbridge,
*Caterham Valley, Thetford, Broadstairs, East Kirkby.

FLAG DAY RESULTS

(We give, wherever possible, the place where the Flag Day was
organized and the name of the organizer or organizers.)

Hayle, Mrs E. E. Edginton (aux hon sec), £30 9s. 461.;
Tredegar, Mrs L. L. Salmon (aux hon sec), £39 15. 361.

 

‘Bader’, owned by Mrs Holland Birkett of Fleet, helped the
RSPCA during Fleet Flag Day. ‘Bader’ is a Pyrenean
Mountain Dog

HOUSE—TO—HOUSE COLLECTIONS

(We give, wherever possible, the place where the collection was
organized and the name of the collector or collectors.)
Wimbledon, Mrs Turner (branch hon sec), £22 45. 1161.;
Northﬂeet, Mrs Porter (aux hon sec), £16 155.; West Dray—
ton, Mr Button (aux hon sec), £61 185. 1d.; Budleigh Salter—
ton, Dr H. B. Walters (aux hon sec), £69 65. 361.; Sidmouth,
Sidbury and Salcombe, Miss Page (aux hon sec), £83 55. 961.;
Newcastle, Mrs Sherwin (aux hon sec), £4 35. 461.; Beccles,
Mrs Eady (branch hon sec), £11 75. 11d.; Frodsham, Mrs
Ravenscroft (aux hon sec), £28 145.; Warwick, £59;
Leamington, £137 25. 6d.; Exmouth, Mr Slee, £64; Ax—
minster, Miss Brisco (aux hon sec), £27 155.; Burghclere
Mrs Heald (aux hon sec), £5 25. 961.; Birchington, Mir
Denning (aux hon sec), £19 05. 361.; Dorking, Mrs Sour
and Mrs Dryer (co aux hon secs), £67 85. 4d.; Tewin Wov
Mrs Thorogood (aux hon sec), £9 17s.; Lancashir
North and Borders Branch, Miss Shaw (branch hon '
£450 55. 361.; Padstow, £20 105.; Truro, £34 145. 661.; P6
porth, £54 185. 461.; St Austell, £39 175. 761.; Ports
£12 135. 161.; Falmouth, £28 85. 561.; Surrey—Wold;
District Branch, Miss E. Walker (hon sec), £107 1
Kent—Dover and District, £70 195. 16d.; Kent—J
Towns (Gillingham and District Division), Mrs 7
(hon sec), £107 95. 161. J

 

 




 

 

 

THE OFFICIAL

 

MAGAZINE OF THE RSPCA

 

 

Vol XLIX No 2

New Series

FEBRUARY 1 9 54

PRICE THREEPENCE
4s. 6d. per annum. Postpaid

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

[Reprinted from john Bull with acknowledgments

VARIETIES OF EVIL

As recent RSPCA prosecutions pass under our
review, we are struck not so much with horror,
which is the common reaction to these cases, as
with the great variety they prove in the very
invention of evil.

Case A.7597 had to do with a 14vyear’old school
boy brought before the Bench at Albrighton,
charged with unlawfully causing unnecessary
suffering to a frog by unreasonably killing the
creature in an improper manner. Confronted with
the offence the boy said that he did not know why
he had done it. HE WAS NOT THINKING! What he
did was to tie the frog by the back legs and hold
it over a fire. The Chairman of the Magistrates
said that a number of people had written to the
Court saying that the boy was not really bad. He
gave him a lesson on the seriousness of illtreating
animals and sent him away with an absolute dis—
charge on payment of 43. Court costs.

Then there was the case of a donkey ill’treated
by being dragged along the road. The RSPCA

Inspector in this case (A.7502) saw a trail of
blood about 100 yards along the road. The trail
took the form of pools of blood and of marks
which appeared to have been made by the splayed
legs of an animal. When the Inspector saw the
animal later he found the two hind legs injured;
the skin had been rubbed off, leaving raw patches.
There was also a raw patch on the left shoulder;
the donkey was unshod and slightly lame. Wit—
nesses who saw the incident gave evidence that
the donkey was sitting down on the road and was
being dragged along by the owner in a car.
Brought before the Lydney Magistrates the
owner of the donkey was fined £5 and ordered to
pay £7 143. 4d. costs.

A child of ten was among the witnesses who
saw the next cruel deed. A cat was coming
through the gate at a shop doorway when a man
bent down, got hold of the cat by the tail and
threw the unhappy creature into the air. The
Magistrates of Prescot County Court, considering
the case brought against the man by the RSPCA,
sent him to prison for two months for cruelty.
(A.7549.)

It seems that in the sphere of cruelty to animals
the adage that ‘there is nothing new under the
sun’ does not hold. There seems no end to the
variety of suffering to which animals may be
subjected.

This realization must be a clarion call to all
well’wishers of the RSPCA to support the
Society in its difﬁcult task of defending all ani’
mals and birds from the wrongs they are liable
to suffer at man’s hands. '

EDITOR

(The RSPCA Inspectors who gave evidence in
these cases were: Inspector Burr, Inspector
Adams and Inspector Watt.)

COVER PICTURE

The cover picture comes from Mrs Allibert,
Council Member. Miss Sanders, who supplie
the picture, is a member of Surrey—Sutt
Branch Committee, of which Mrs Allibert
hon secretary.

 

 




 

[Miss Sanders

FEBRUARY 1954

THREEPENCE

9r
9
ma
9
S
S
m
d
e
g
n
M
e
h
m...
g
n
.1

2

lncorporat
THE OFFICIAL ORGAN OF THE RSPCA

 

 

VOLUME XLIX N0

. 9V .
‘.!|.|,I,lv."4 ‘VH.L-‘w.hn.|ltvuznl“.wp§‘.\lrhﬂl‘Ikw‘x Iv. '. :

 




 

 

 

February 1954

THE ANIMAL WORLD 15.

 

RICHARD MARTIN—A sketch in the Ashmolean

 

Writing from the Ashmolean Museum, Department of Fine
Art, Oxford, Mr K. T. Palmer, the Keeper, sends a photo-
graph from which this is reproduced. The photograph is
from a pen and ink sketch, depicting Richard Martin, and
has been attributed to Landseer. This attribution is mainly
made, Mr Palmer supposes, on account of the spirited
rendering of the animals, but he says it is somewhat un-
certain, as it does not seem to him that the writing is
convincingly Landseer’s. The drawing is in the Ashmolean

Heroes’ Corner

Dogs Rescued
The rescue of dogs has earned high awards from
the RSPCA for several gallant people recently.

Mr J. Bennett and Mr H. T. Hill were faced
with one of the most diﬂicult situations ever in a
mine—shaft rescue at Bennetts Adit, Mary Tavy,
Tavistock. There appeared to be a sheer drop for
30 ft.; then there was a ledge on which it was
possible to walk and then there was a further
drop so that it was diﬂicult to keep the rescue
rope away from the sides, which were caving in.
Senior Inspector Mullard descended 30 ft. to
explore and then decided to direct the rescue
operations from there.

Mr J. Bennett descended the 30 ft. to the ledge
and then went 20 ft. in the direction of the shaft
proper, where there was another drop of 30 ft.
to water of an unknown depth. As he needed help
Mr H. T. Hill volunteered, and joining Mr Ben—
nett they made the ﬁnal descent to the water’s

edge. A third rope was then sent down and the
dog hauled up.

Part of the way down there was a derelict wall
of earth and stone boulders which appeared to be
held up only by rotten timber. Mr Bennett and
Mr Hill have each received the RSPCA Bronze
Medal and citation certiﬁcate.

Other rescuers who have received the same
award for gallantry in rescuing dogs are: Fireman
D. J. Jenkins, who descended a cliff at Tresaith,
Cardiganshire; Mrs J. Parker, who was lowered
into a well at Le Mesurier’s Lane, St Saviours,
Guernsey; Police Constable T. Evans, who went
down a quarry at Rosehill, Swansea; Coastguard
H. H. Breeds, who went over a cliff at Rockaav
Nore, Hastings; and Fireman D. J. Slater, who
descended a disused mineshaft at Fiddlers Green,
Graystrop, Pembrokeshire.

Overseas Awards

Two boys, J. Oldewage and G. Pretorius,
jumped into the River Skoonspruit, Klerksdorp,
where a team of ten red oxen harnessed to an
unloaded wagon were in difﬁculties. The boys
climbed on the backs of the animals and were
able to loosen the chain straps and cut off the
reins from ﬁve of the oxen; then, helped by other
natives, they dragged them to safety. Unluckily,
the other ﬁve animals were drowned.

Both boys have received the RSPCA Bronze
Medal and citation certiﬁcate.

Cat Rescued

Fireman D. E. Drew had to force his way
through bushes overgrowing the mouth of a mine;
shaft at Wheal Kitty, St Agnes, Cornwall, before
he could enter the 20 ft. wide shaft where a cat
had been missing for twelve days. Fireman
Drew, having made his way through the bushes,
was lowered and had to go down 100 ft. before
he reached the cat. For his gallantry Fireman
Drew has received the RSPCA Bronze Medal
and citation certiﬁcate. A

Another cat rescuer who has received the same
award is Mr F. W. Clarke, who rescued a kitten
from an elm tree near the main road, Maidwell,
Northants.

Bars to Awards

Divisional Fire Ofﬁcer J. L. Stanbury, who
rescued a dog from a disused minevshaft at
Wheelvor Downs, Breage, Cornwall, has received
iheidbar to the RSPCA Silver Medal he already

0 s.

Holders of the RSPCA Bronze Medals who
have received the bar to that award are: Mr G.
Williams, who rescued a dog from a disused
mine’shaft at Wheal Kitty, St Agnes, Cornwall;
Inspector J. T. Greenhalgh, who rescued a dog
from a disused mine—shaft at Pendeen, Cornwall,
and Senior Inspector A. A. Lloyd, who rescued a
do gfrom a disused shaft at Castle Farm, Youlgreave.

  

 

 




 
  

Founded 1824

HER GRACE WINIFRED DUCHESS OF PORTLAND
THE EARL OF SHAFTESBURY, KP, PC

ROYAL SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS

Headquarters: 105 Jermyn Street, London, S.W.1

PATRONS
HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN
HER MAJESTY QUEEN ELIZABETH, THE QUEEN MOTHER
HER ROYAL HIGHNESS PRINCESS ALICE COUNTESS OF ATHLONE
HER ROYAL HIGHNESS PRINCESS ARTHUR OF CONNAUOHT

VICE-PRESIDENTS

SIR MALCOLM SARGENT, HON LLD, D MUS, FRCM, FRSA
COLONEL R. M. POWELL, DSO

 

AGIUS, THE REV DOM. AMBROSE, 088, MA
*ALLIBERT, MRS
*ALSOP, ALDERMAN A. J., FCRA, FCIS, JP
BERTIE 0F THAME, THE RT HON THE VISCOUNTESS
BRANSOM, MISS L. G., FRSA
I BYWATER, H. E., ESQ, MRCVS
‘ *COOPER, ALDERMAN J. D., JP
DAWES, CAPTAIN H. w., CBE, MRCVS
I DORCHESTER, LT-COL THE RT HON LORD, OBE, JP
. *DOWDELL, MRS
._.l ESTCOURT-OSWALD, MISS AGNES, MB (LOND), DPH
(CANTAB), DOMS

*HARVEY, MRS J. w., MA
*HOCKIN, c. OWEN, ESQ

*HUNTER, MISS
LEE, MRS

LONGMAN, MRS W.

FREEMAN, PETER, ESQ, MP
GASKOlN, c. J. 13., ESQ., MA ‘
GREENWOOD, ANTHONY, ESQ, MA, MP I

HOGG, s. R., ESQ, Dso, MC

LOCKWOOD, LT-COL J. C., JP, TD, MP

MURRAY, BRIGADIER C. A., CBE. MRCVS
MOORE, LT—COL SIR THOMAS, CBE, MP
*EVANS, MRS DAVID, BA I *PARKER, MAURICE G., ESQ, MISAC

THE COUNCIL (1952-1953)

Chairman: THE RT HON LORD MERTHYR, DL, JP
Vice-Chairman: *MRS WALLIS POWER, JP

| POULETT. THE Rr HON THE LARL
l POWELL, COL R. M., DSO
RATTRAY, THE REV DR R. F.

, *RlECK, H. H... [SQ

i SHAFTESBURY, THE RT HON THE COUNTESS OF
SlBLY, W. A., ESQ, MA, JP

1 SNELL, THE REV PREBENDARY L. J. 13., MBE, JP

‘ TAIT, MRS, BA
TERRINGTON, TI-IE RT HON LORD, KBE, MA

‘ THOMAS, W. S. RUSSELL, ESQ

TUFNELL, LIEUT-COMMANDER R. I.., MA, RN

*WALFORD, MRS DESBOROUGH

*WHITE, HARRY, ESQ, FCA

*WINCHESTER, F. J., ESQ, PCIS. PSS

* Denotes Branch Representative

 

Hon Treasurer—LT-COL J. c. LOCKWOOD. JP, TD, MP
Deputy Hon Treasurer—HARRY WHITE, ESQ, FCA
Hon Medical Ofﬁcer—A. F. WHYTE, ESQ, MB, CHB
Bankers—MESSRS COUTTS AND co, STRAND, LONDON

Telegrams—WHITEHALL 7 177

.........................................

        

SAIL.
SURE DOME Xﬂ

CAPTIVE BOLT PISTOL
1 FOR ALL ANIMALS

CClES AND SHElVOKE lID BIRMINGHAM ' 6 ENGLAND
" 5465

    

OFFICE BEARERS APPOINTED BY THE COUNCIL

Chief Secretary—ARTHUR w. Moss, ESQ, MBE, AClS

Assistant Secretary—D. A. L. CAMM, ESQ, BA

Legal Secretary J. HALL, ESQ

Chief Veterinary Ofﬁcer MAJOR R. C. G. HANCOCK, BSC, MRCVS

 

 

Auditors—MESSRS VINEY, PRICE AND GOODYEAR, CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS

Telephone—Whitehall 7177

What the UP-TO-DATE dog-owner knows——

SCRAPPY FEEDS ARE
NO GOOD TO A DOG!

Look at his teeth and see the reason! Designed
for crushing and grinding his food, his teeth show
he needs food that provides nourishment for his
body plus exercise for his jaws and teeth. Table
scraps are not what the canine digestion needs.
\ What he needs is
something to get his
teeth into! He needs
Spratt’s Biscuits to
sustain him and give
him energy and
vigour.

 
   
    

Spratt’s Guide to Dog Manage-

ment, 88 pages, on all aspects
' of Dog Ownership. From
your Spratt's stockist, l/6, or
l/8 post free from Dept. A.W.
at the address below.

W 5 SPRATT’S
QM DOG FOODS

MIXED OVALS WEETMEET
SPRATT’S PATENT LTD, «.47 BOW ROAD. E3

See the name
SPRATT’S on Biscuits
and Package

 

 

     
  
 
 
 
 
   
  
   
    
     
   
    
   
     
   
  
  
    
   
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
       
  

 

 

 




 

 

14 THE ANIMAL WORLD

February 1954

 

 

A BRANCH 1 CENTENARY

The Streatham, Clapham and Brixton branch, one
of the oldest in England, is celebrating its centenv
ary this year, having been founded in 1854 under
the title of the Clapham, 'Brixton and Streatham
Branch, with an ofﬁce at 24 Park Road, Clapham,
and Mr W. K. Rowe, its honorary secretary, liv—
ing at 3 Streatham Place. Mr Rowe continued in
this capacity for about thirty years.

The district must have been a pleasant place
a hundred years ago, with many large houses and
gardens, plenty of space and dairy farms, some
of which continued until early in this century.

One is always rather inclined to look on the
past as a sort of golden age, but as far as the
animals were concerned, they were certainly far
worse off than they are now. In some of the old
reports of the districts round London, it is not
unusual to ﬁnd an Inspector obtaining well over
ﬁfty convictions a year for cruelty to horses and
donkeys. If there is not much mention of dogs
and cats, it does not mean that they were not fre
quently illvtreated, but the Inspector was doubt~
less too busy patrolling the roads and looking
after horses to have time for much else. With a
smaller human population, the number of dogs
and cats would probably be much less than
now, but there must have been far more horses.
Rabbit coursing was an amusement of the time,
until one of the ﬁrst Inspectors in the district got
it stopped.

No TELEPHONES

It needs to be remembered that animals, like
humans, suffered from lack of telephones and
transport. There was no ringing up for the
Inspector and no horse ambulances. Accidents

The Clinic is the RSPCA Frederick Borthwick Memorial
Clinic at Brixton. As this picture shows, the most up-to-
date X-ray apparatus has been installed for the benefit
of animal patients. The photograph was taken when Mr
F. ]. Winchester, Council Member, attended, and saw the
ﬁrst cat patient to benefit from the apparatus

 

were frequent on the hill in Streatham High
Road, and injured horses were dragged away, if it
was possible to make them walk at all, otherwise
they were left in the road until someone could
be found to come and shoot them.

The branches in those days had to rely on their
own efforts—there were no functions partly
organized by Headquarters such as Flag Day and
the Christmas market, and much as many of us
dislike Flag Days we must recognize that we
should ﬁnd it very hard to survive as a branch
without it.

HUMANE EDUCATION
The RSPCA became aware, very early, of the
imperative need for some humane teaching being
given to children, and ‘Bands of Mercy’ were
formed. It may be of interest to know that the
ﬁrst talk ever given in a London school took place
in this branch, in St Andrews School, Stockwell.

There is no complete list of branch honorary
secretaries, but Miss Sanster held this position
from 1902 till 1936, and is still remembered for
her great work. During this period, the title of the
Branch became ‘Streatham, Clapham and Brix—
ton’. The district was very heavily bombed dur’
ing the last war, and nearly all old records were
ost.

The present honorary secretary, Miss M.
Tamplin, is fortunate in the very great support
given by the auxiliary honorary secretaries, and
by Inspector Duck, and also that the branch has
a headquarters clinic in its area, with Mr J. Clark
in charge, at 59 Caldwell Street.

One of the most recent acts of the branch at
the end of 1953 was to purchase a pony ‘MODkGY’
which had been very ill—treated, and to send him
away to an excellent home in the country.

M. T.
ACTING THE PART

Mrs Donovan, Essex—Mid branch hon sec,
writes:

‘1 arranged a ﬁlm show at a school in TilburY
where we have a clinic. Among the ﬁlms shown
was the short “Handle with Care”, in which an
injured cat is taken in an RSPCA basket to the
local clinic.

‘The following day a small girl came to 0111‘
clinic, asked for a basket, as her cat was very
naughty and she could not carry it. She assured
me seriously that her cat was ill and she could
manage. After some time, she returned with a
friend carrying the basket. The veterinary sure
geon examined the cat carefully but nothing
appeared to be wrong. .The child then said the
cat limped, but this proved untrue, so we came to
the conclusion that the child was inspired by the

ﬁlmpshe had seen and was innocently acting a
part.

 

 

 




 

16 THE ANIMAL WORLD February1954l

 

DECEMBER 1953

RSPCA INSPECTORS

1,915 Complaints of cruelty investigated.
3 Oﬁenders imprisoned.
74 Oﬁenders ﬁned.
70 Persons guilty of minor acts of cruelty cautioned in writing.
761 Registered cautions were administered by Inspectors.

CLASSIFICATION OF CONVICTIONS

HORSES—Working in an unﬁt state, neglecting, beating,
allowing tethering chain to become embedded

in neck . 4
CATTLE—Neglecting, exposing for sale unﬁt, conveying

in an unﬁt state, terrifying with ﬁreworks 5
SHEEP——Neglecting, improperly hoppling 2
PIGS—Neglecting, unloading in improper manner 5
DOGS—Neglecting, injuring with missile, using for pur

poses of draught, killing in improper manner 23

CATS—Neglecting, causing to be worried by dog, throw—
ing to ground, terrifying by tieing ﬁerwork to
neck, stabbing . . 8

RABBIT—Neglecting

N

BOWLS—Neglecting, attempting to kill in improper
manner .. . . .

CHICKS——Neglecting
PIGEONS—Neglecting
FERRET—Starving

HHHD)

OFFENCES UNDER THE PROTECTION OF BIRDS ACT, 1925:
Conﬁning birds in small cages 5

OFFENCES UNDER THE WILD BIRDS PROTECTION ACTS:
Using bird lime .
Using nets for the purpose of taking 1

VARIOUS OFFBNCES:
Steel—tooth traps—set in open 3
Causing in ofences 3
Permitting in ofences 3
Infringements of Transit of Horses Order, 1951 3

TOTAL NUMBER OF CONVICTIONS

K)
\1

During DECEMBER, 1953, Magistrates, at the request of the
RSPCA, disqualiﬁed NINE persons from owning a dog or
holding a dog licence. Disqualiﬁcations were as follows:

ONE for twelve months; EIGHT for ﬁve years.

 

THE RSPCA AT WORK

HEADQUARTERS CLINICS
No. of animals handled:
Cats, 4,033 Dogs, 4,150 Misc., 248 Total, 8,431
No. of animals given emergency ﬁrsteaid: 1,826

PUTNEY CONVALESCENT WARD
No. of animals handled:
Cats, 22 Dogs, 53 Misc., 2 Total, 77

NIGHT STAFF
No. of calls received: 1,480
Miles covered by ambulance in respect of urgent calls: 1,241
N o. of animals rescued: 10
N o. of cases treated by veterinary surgeon: 226

NORTH WALES UNIT
First—aid cases:
Cats, 33 Dogs, 42 Misc., 0 Total, 75
No. of other animals handled by Unit:
Cats, 66 Dogs, 52 Misc., 0 Total, 118
No. of miles covered by Unit during month: 1,925

AWARDS

Cases considered: 34
Awards made:

Silver Medals 3
Bronze Medals 10
Certiﬁcates 14

RECORDS FOR 1952

COMPLAINTS ... 30,750
CONVICTIONS 962
CAUTIONS ... 11,599

HEADQUARTERS CLINICS
No. of animals handled: 160,623

NIGHT STAFF
No. of calls: 19,839

NORTH WALES UNIT
No. of animals handled: 3,083

AWARDS
Margaret Wheatley Cross 1
Silver Medals 11
Bars to Silver Medals
Bronze Medals 52
Bars to Bronze Medals 5

Merit Certiﬁcates 104

 

 




 

 

 

18 THE ANIMALWORLD

February 1954

 

VICTIMS OF DROUGHT IN
TANGANYIKA

 

 

Mrs Slater, RSPCA Territorial Organizer for
Tanganyika, sends these pictures with a report
from Mrs W. R. G. Thomas, secretary of the
RSPCA Dar’eSvSalaam branch, who says that
following a report from the African Inspector she
visited Illala to see the unloading of a cattle train
from central Tanganyika, where there was severe
drought. The train had been loaded at Dodoma
on November 2 and arrived at Illala at about
ﬁve o’clock on the evening of November 3,
although unloading did not begin until the morn—
ing of November 4. By 11.40 a.m. seven dead
and nine dying cattle had been removed from nine
of the trucks. There were no facilities for watera
ing the cattle unable to walk, and they were under
a blazing sun, with no transport available to take
them to the abattoir.

‘It is impossible’, Mrs Thomas says, ‘to de—
scribe the scene of filth and horror as the weak—
ened beasts were dragged from the vans and
perforce left to die.’

Inquiries made in Tanganyika showed that

none of these cattle should have been loaded,
coming as they did from a drought area.

Colonial Ofﬁce
RSPCA Headquarters had already submitted to
the Under—Secretary of State at the Colonial
Office in London, a memorandum asking the
Government to consider the strengthening of
legislation on various aspects of animal welfare.
Particular mention was made in this memorana
dum for the need to improve the conditions un’
der which livestock should travel by rail and sea.

As was stated to the Colonial Ofﬁce, efforts
have been made locally by the Tanganyika Divia
sion to obtain improvements. It seems from the
Division’s investigations that the main cause of
unnecessary suffering to animals in transit liesin
neglect of consignors and consignees to provide
care and attention. There would appear at present
to be no specific orders under which consignors
and consignees should be liable for such neglect
and the RSPCA has urged that suitable legislation
be introduced. '

The RSPCA Headquarters memorandum has
been received at the Colonial Ofﬁce and the
Minister for Colonial Affairs is now in touch with
the Tanganyika Government. More news is
awaited and the RSPCA will continue to press
for improvements.

COALMAN’S
BEST FRIEND

We still laugh about
the day of the heavy
raid near St Pancras
Station. The coalman
had called to deliver.
‘Leave the coal and
come in the Anderson,’
advised the woman of
the house. ‘Not me,
unless I can bring my
horse too,’ answered
.. the coalman. The wo-
' | man ﬁnally said: ‘Well,

l’lI leave the house door
open so you can shelter
in the passage,’ and de-
parted for the shelter.
\ When the ‘All-Clear’
v. . sounded we came out
Ax, ‘__/ £53,139», 4/ i of the shelter and saw
‘ l li‘W-‘M '7 . an extraordinary sight.
\ 4 The coalman and his

If C \T‘it.
\ i i‘ 9%. Whorse' were inside the
front hall. ‘Well, I

didn’t expect this!’ ex-
claimed the housewife.
lt took a good deal of
coaxing and coCkney
banter to get the am-
mal backed into the
street again—(Mrs) N.
R. Day, jaywick Lane,
Clacton. '

   
 
 

       

’/ l?
l.

Letter and illustration
reprinted from
London Evening News
by courtesy of

the Editor




 

 

20 THE ANIMAL WORLD

February 1954

 

 

of her school’s dance recital, a total of £38 17s. The Mayoress
opened the proceedings and the Mayor was present.
Croydon Borough By agreement between Miss Tamplin,
hon sec of Streatham, Brixton and Clapham branch, and
Mrs Bagnall, hon sec of Croydon Borough branch, a
dancing display in aid of both branches was organized by
the Prengle School of Dancing at Norbury Methodist
Church Hall. Mr C. R. Davies, branch organizer, spoke, and
the Branch Inspectors were present.
Cumberland—West Mr A. R. Neighbour, branch hon sec,
reports that a rummage sale held at Whitehaven raised
£51 11s. 10d. for branch funds. The sale was opened by the
branch chairman, Mr F. A. Clayton, and among those
present were the aux hon secs for Cleator, Gilcrux and
Mirehouse. Mrs Neighbour attended with the branch hon
sec. The auctioneer was Mr T. Rutherford. Inspector and
Mrs Turnell were present.
Denbighshire—East and Rhyl The action of Mr Roy
Johnson in saving a sheep from drowning in the River
Clwyd was recognized at the branch annual meeting at the
Morville Hotel, Rhyl. The branch president, the Hon Mrs
Nigel Birch, presented Mr Johnson with a framed RSPCA
certiﬁcate. Mr Ernest R. Black (branch chairman), on calling
Mr Johnson to receive the certiﬁcate, spoke highly of him.
Inspector Lloyd’s report to the meeting showed the seven
cases of cruelty had been reported to headquarters. Mrs
E. Black, the branch hon sec, said that the year had been
quite successful, and the report from Mr H. Milner Jones,
the branch treasurer, showed a balance of £98 43. 4d.
Branch ofﬁcials and committee were all re-elected. Mr
F. J. Winchester, RSPCA Council Member, who gave an
address, spoke particularly of Private Members’ Bills.
Doncaster Division Mr J. Morrison, divisional hon sec,
reports that Mrs Bennett’s coffee morning raised £40 for
branch funds.
Dorset—North Miss Burgess, Gillingham aux hon sec,
reports that the sum of £1 3s. 6d. was collected for branch
funds when Inspector Hancock spoke to Buckhorn Weston
Women’s Institute on the work of the RSPCA.

*

Mrs Baker, West Moors aux hon sec, with her com-
mittee, organized a whist drive and raised about £60 for
branch funds.

Durham and District Miss G. S. Wilkinson, branch hon
sec, reports that a bring-and-buy sale in the Town Hall,
Durham, was a great success. Lady Annabel Vane-Tempest-
Stewart opened the sale, deputizing for her sister, Lady Jane
Stewart. County Councillor Mrs H. H. Rushford, JP,
branch chairman, presided over the opening ceremony. The
Mayor, Councillor J. R. Kingston, proposed a vote of
thanks to Lady Annabel Vane-Tempest-Stewart. Mr A. B.
Peacock (hon treasurer) said a few words about the ﬁnancial
problems of the branch. Committee members and various
aux hon secretaries worked very hard, Miss Wilkinson
reports.

Durham—Hartlepools and District Two Hartlepool chil-
dren, Joyce Wilkinson, aged 13, and Albert McGregor, aged
11, received from Miss McAuslan, branch hon sec, awards
made to them for their courage and humanity in preventing
two older boys from being cruel to a cat.

Ealing and District Miss M. C. Pearce, branch hon sec,
reports:

The RSPCA medal and a cheque awarded by Head-
quarters for gallantry shown during the East Coast ﬂoods,
were presented to Inspector Williams by the branch president,
Mr Ottway, at a branch meeting held in the Town Hall.

Mr Armstrong, the vice-president, spoke of the local work
and the hon treasurer, Mr Thompson, gave the ﬁnancial
statement.

Inspector Williams rendered an account of a busy year’s
work among the animals. '

Performing animals and the rabbit trap campaign were
the subjects of an address by Major Chapman from Head-
quarters.

A jumble sale organized by Mrs Henderson, Hounslow
aux hon sec, ably assisted by Mrs Moss, ralsed £24 for
branch funds.

RSPCA Exhibition at the Drill Hall, Ashford. The children
shown are pupils of Ashford School for Girls, East Hill, of
whom. about 250 took an interest in the Branch Stall

Essex—Mid, Brentwood, Chelmsford, Romford and District
Mrs Donovan, branch hon sec, reports:

The Essex-Mid branch postponed annual general meet-
ing was held at Springﬁeld Villas, Chelmsford, by kind
permission of Dr and Mrs Aubrey. After the reports had
been given, the chairman, Miss Perry, introduced Mrs H.
Ashton, who was deputizing for her husband, Mr Hubert
Ashton, MP. Mrs Ashton presented the RSPCA medals won
in the rescue of animals in the ﬂoods on the East coast.
Besides Inspector Reid and an AA Scout, there were
a girl and ﬁve men from the Tilbury and Grays area. A brlng-
and-buy stall organized by the branch hon secretary and
Mrs French, Borhem aux hon sec, made £18. Miss Perry also
introduced the new branch organizer, Major F. Chapman,
who answered questions.

A cinema show was arranged by Mrs Donovan, branch
hon sec, in one of the schools at Tilbury. Over 400 children
enjoyed the three ﬁlms shown and listened to the short talk.
Afterwards they crowded round asking questions and telling
stories of their own pets.

The branch hon sec was invited to speak at a school of 600
children on the Harold Hill LCC Estate to thank them for
their magniﬁcent ﬂag day collection of over £22. She found a
ﬂOIfliI'lShing Animal Defender Group run by a member of the
sta .

The branch hon sec has also been asked by a local boys’
school to help run a pet club for the boarders. She supplies
the various animals for the meetings with the relevant

_ RSPCA leaﬂets and posters.

Mrs Donovan, branch hon sec, arranged the showing of
some RSPCA ﬁlms to over 200 boys of the St Chad’s Road
Secondary School, Tilbury. A short talk on the work of the
RSPCA was given, stressing the need to preserve our native
buds and the desirability of leaving the killing of the grey
squirrels to those who were trained in the work.

Fylde Lytham St Annes auxiliary held a dance in aid of
branch funds at Squires Gate Holiday Camp. Mrs Kennedy
(aux1liary chairman) and Miss D. Lord (aux hon sec) were
among the ofﬁcials attending.

Glamorgan—Mid and Port Talbot The Rev Handel
Thomas, Vicar of Tondu, introduced by the branch presr-
dent, Mr D. Harold Jones, opened the branch annual
Chrlstmas market at the .YMCA, Port Talbot. The Rev
Handel Thomas is president of the Aberkenﬁg auxiliarY- H?
was accompanied by Mrs Thomas and ofﬁcials of his aux111-
ary. He said it was a great joy to be asked to oﬂiciate. When

 

 

 




 

 

 

22 THE ANIMAL WORLD

 

Colonel R. M. Powell, Vice-President of the RSPCA Council,

and Mrs Powell, are photographed with helpers during

Fleet Flag Day. ‘Bader’, the Pyrenean Mountain Dog who

is owned by Mrs Holland Birkett, of Fleet, was a valued
helper

Shefﬁeld Mrs Collier, branch hon sec, reports that the
Christmas Fair raised £160 for branch funds.
Somerset—South A programme of ‘Any Questions’ was
held in the Congregational Church Hall, Minehead. The
team consisted of Miss Rosemary Jones (Cannington Farm
Institute), Mr A. McGuiness, MRCVS, Mr H. J. Craske, aux
hon treas, and Mr Alan Taylor (Moulton Farm Institute).
The questions ranged from those in a ligher vein to more
serious subjects: myxomatosis in rabbits, de-horning of
cattle, testing of herds, etc. A pleasant and instructive even—
ing was spent and collection taken for branch funds. The
question master was the Rev Walter Floyd.
Staffordshire—North Mrs Berry, joint branch hon sec,
reports: The animal jumble sale, arranged by the branch,
was held in St Michael’s Hall, Chell, by kind permission of
the Church Council. This realized £35 113. for branch funds.
Stockport, East Cheshire and West Derbyshire The sum of
£3 14s. was raised as a collection for branch funds when
Inspector Coles spoke to the Davenport Townswomen’s
Guild about the work of the RSPCA.

Streatham, Brixton and Clapham By agreement between
Miss Tamplin, hon sec of Streatham, Brixton and Clapham
branch, and Mrs Bagnall, hon sec of Croydon Borough
branch, a dancing display in aid of both branches was
organized by the Prengle School of Dancing at Norbury
Methodist Church Hall. Mr C. R. Davies, branch organizer,
spoke and the branch inspectors were present.
Suffolk—East Coast, Constable Mrs Eady, branch hon
sec, reports that local jumble sale raised £15 153. 7d., and
the Christmas Fair up to date had raised £22 65. with a little
more to come in. These sums were for branch funds.
Surrey—Epsom and District Mrs Neale, Ashtead aux hon
sec, reports that the annual bazaar raised £435 10s. 9d. for

February 1954

branch funds. The proceedings were opened by Miss Anona
Winn, stage, screen and radio star.

Surrey—Purley and District Mr Peter Butterworth, tele-
vision star, presented to Inspector Sexton, at the Regal
Cinema, the RSPCA medal awarded to the inspector for his
gallant rescue work during the East Coast ﬂoods. Mr D.
Weightman, branch chairman, who spoke, was introduced
to the audience by Mr E. O. Sinnett, cinema manager.

*

Miss V. Keppell, Caterham aux hon sec, reports that a
cinema collection raised £9 10s. 10d.; of this total £1 11s.
was in the collecting box carried by two dogs.
Surrey—Sutton and District Mrs Allibert, branch hon
secretary and Council Member, reports:

The annual meeting was held on November 10, Rev
Canon Crawford Murray, chairman of the branch, presiding.
The Mayor of Sutton and Cheam, Alderman Kingsley
Williams, and the Mayoress, Mrs Williams, presented the
RSPCA medal for services rendered in the East Coast ﬂoods
to Inspector Reed, and the Society’s certiﬁcate for the rescue
of a dog from ﬁre to Miss Millen.

The hon secretary, Mrs Allibert, gave an account of the
year’s work and thanked all who had helped in various ways
to maintain the work of the branch, and expressed the com-
mittee’s appreciation of the capable and efﬁcient work of
Inspector Reed; also of Mrs Reed in dealing with the
numerous telephone calls.

The hon treasurer, Mr Reader, submitted his ﬁnancial
report and stated the £600 quota for the branch had been
remitted to Chief Ofﬁce and in spite of the increased expenses
of the branch’s clinic, there was a satisfactory balance sheet.

Mrs Longman, Member of the Council, gave an interesting
talk on the Society’s clinics and congratulated the branch on
its Clinic and work. Mr Davies, branch organizer, gave an
addrelss on the work of the RSPCA which was much appre-
c1ate .

Rev E. Woollcombe, OBE, Rector of Sutton, moved a vote
of thanks to the Mayor and Mayoress and Chairman.

Tea was provided by the kindness of Mrs Floor, Vice-
president.

Surrey—Sutton and District: Carshalton A sum of £15
was sent by Miss Doris Holford, the result of a dancing
display given by her pupils.

Sussex—East and Hastings At the Ritz Cinema, Hastings,
the Mayor, Alderman H. W. Rymill, presented to Mr H. H.
Breeds the RSPCA bronze medal and certiﬁcate for rescuing
a dog trapped on a ledge. Awards were also made to PC
Burgess and Mr G. Jubb who helped Mr Breeds in the
rescue. The Deputy Chief Constable, Superintendent G.
Sheppard, was present. Councillor W. A. Wiggins, Vice.-
chairman of the branch, spoke, and Mr L. F. Gallop,
branch hon treasurer, thanked the Mayor and Superinten-
dent Sheppard for attending and the management of the
Ritz for allowing the presentation to be made there. Mrs
Sletcher, branch hon sec, was present along with Inspector
Hesswn. Mr H. H. Breeds is a coastguard, and the coast-
guards were represented by Commander G. C. Harris,
Inspector of Coastguards, and District Ofﬁcer W. F.
Richardson (Shoreham) and Station Ofﬁcer A. G. Dickinson
(Fairlight). Kim, the nine-year-old black and white dog
wh1ch was rescued, was on the stage with his owner, Mr
R. A. Bohun. ,

Sussex—West and Brighton Mr W. C. Brown, branch
secretary and treasurer, reports:

Recent efforts by young people in aid of branch funds
have been as follows: Miss Patricia Hussey, gymkhana at
Worthing, £8 8s.; Miss Ann Warren, gymkhana at Patching,
£5; Miss Diana Deering, autumn fayre at Hove, £21 11.9.;
the M1sses Dixon, dog show at Uckﬁeld, £4 4s.

A sale held at the branch clinic by the Superintendent,
Mrs Wood, raised £19 43. for clinic funds.

The clinic was recently Visited by the Mayor and Mayoress
of Brighton, Alderman and Mrs J. E. Hay, during surgery
hours. It was a busy afternoon with over thirty patients

 

 

 




 

 

24 THE ANIMAL WORLD

February 1954

 

 

OFF TO THE LEBANON

Photo by courtesy of the
Folkestone, Hythe & District
Herald

 

lnspector Wolfenden at Dover Priory Station speeds
‘Rolfe’, a two-year-old bull terrier, on his journey to the
Lebanon. There, ‘Rolfe’ joins his master, Flt-Sgt F. Hitch-
cock, with the RAF at Rayak. When the Flight-Sergeant
went overseas he left ‘Rolfe’ behind. The dog could not
settle down without his master, and more than one good
home was found before finally the RSPCA wrote to Flt-Sgt
Hitchcock, who has paid for ‘Rolfe’s’ air passage. The
RSPCA made all arrangements for the flight

 

CREDIT WHERE IT’S DUE

 

Colonel R. M. Powell, DSO, Vice-President of the RSPCA,
has written to explain that although he sent these photo-
graphs (printed originally in the November ‘Animal World’,
and depicting scenes at the Camberley Agricultural Show)
to the Editor, they were not taken by him, but by Mr
David Lance, the 20-year-old son of Mrs Lance, the hon
secretary of the Camberley Auxiliary. We regret the
misunderstanding

 

 

 

 

R.S.P.C.A=

FORM OF BEQUEST FOR NATIONAL WORK

TO those benevolent individuals who may wish tO become benefactors byWill to this
Society, the following form is respectfully suggested:—

‘I bequeath to the ROYAL SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS, founded

 

 

 

1824, for the general purposes of that Society, the sum of £ ............................................ , free
of death duty and the receipt of the Treasurer for the time being of the said Society shall
be sufficient discharge for such legacy.’ (If it should be desired that the legacy should be we
pended on some particular phase of the Society’s work, a direction to this eﬁect may be added to the

form of bequest.)

 

NOTE
By the Act of William IV and I Victoria, cap. 26, all Wills or Codicils must be in Writing signed by the

Testator, and attested by two witnesses in the presence of the Testator and of each other.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




1

A

vv'vvv'v'vvvvvvvvvvvvv

'vv‘

LONDON JOINT ANIMAL FLAG DAY

TUESDAY, MAY 4, 1954

A‘AAAAAAAA

‘AAAAAAAAA

v'vv'

AAAAA‘AAAAAAAAAA‘AAAAA

vvvvvvvvvvvvv'vvvvvvv'vvv'vvvvvvvv'vvvvvvvvv'vvvv'vvv'v‘ vvvvv'v'v'

 

Photo] [Courtesy of Wykeham Studios Ltd., London

PLEASE HELP

—if only for an hour or two!

AAA‘AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA‘AAAAA

Anyone who can spare any time—-no matter how little—to help to
collect in London is earnestly invited to write to: Chief Secretary,

RSPCA, 105 Jermyn Street, London, SW1

vvvv'w'vv'v"r'vv'v'vvvvv'vvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvv'vvvvv ' vvvvv ' ' ' ' - - - - - - - ' '

v

 

 

1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
I

 

Printed by Shenval Press, Simson Shand Ltd, London, Hertford and Harlow, and
published by Arthur. W. Moss for the RSPCA at 105 Jermyn Street, London, SW1

 




