 

QUILLS. Ostriches don’t hide their heads in
the sand. Elephants don’t fear mice. Hippo-
potamuses don’t sweat blood.

THE CROCODILE is the only known animal
that purposely swallows rocks, sometimes as
large as a lemon. They assist digestion.
Crocodile tears are shed when the animal
opens its mouth to swallow a Victim —— not
out of sorrow, but because its jaws are
forced so far apart, much as a human’s eyes
water in the course of a big yawn.

-\\‘

\

 

H- «’

CROCODILES are Old World animals, not
found in the Western Hemisphere. Alligators
are their New World counterpart, seldom
known to attack humans.

OLD WORLD BIG CATS found only in
Asia and Africa are lions, tigers, leopards
and Cheetahs. The New World felines found
in North and South America are jaguars,
ocelots, pumas and lynxes.

SMALLEST OF ALL BIRDS, the beautiful
humming bird, weighs one ﬁfteenth of an
ounce and is only two inches long. Its wings
beat to the tune of 60 each second. The
hummer is the only bird capable of true
backward ﬂight due to its helicopter-like
ﬂight mechanism.

 

IT TAKES ABOUT 25 BABY OPOSSUMS

at birth to weight one ounce.

FISH CAN DROWN. They need oxygen to
live and extract it from the water. If the
oxygen content becomes too low, the ﬁsh
will suffocate.

AN ELEPHANT does not drink through
its trunk. It merely sucks the water into
its trunk (about two gallons at a time),
then squirts it into its mouth and swallows
in the normal way.

MULES cannot reproduce themselves. They
are the result of crossing horses wit-h don-

keys.

 
     
     
   

AND I
THOU6HT
I WAS

PUTTING

 

\ lCORKECT
W
44. EIGHT

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

HOPE you were going some place im-

portant when you drove so fast down
Cross Highway across Bayberry Lane, Tues-
day night.

I hope that when you got there the time
you saved by speeding meant something to
you or somebody else.

Maybe we’d feel better if we could imag-
ine that you were a doctor rushing some-
where to deliver a baby or ease somebody’s
pain. The life of our dog to shorten some-
one’s suffering — that mightn’t have been
so bad.

But even though all we saw of you was
your car’s black shadow and its jumping
tail lights as you roared down the road,
we know too much about you to believe it.

You saw the dog, you stepped on your
brakes, you felt a thump, you heard a yelp
and then my wife’s scream. Your reflexes
are good, we know, because you jumped on
the gas again and got out of there fast.

Whoever you are, mister, and whatever
you do for a living, we know you are a killer.

And in your hands, driving the way you
drove Tuesday night, your car is a murder
weapon.

You didn’t bother to look, so I’ll tell you
what the thump and the yelp were. They
were Vicky, a six-‘months-old Basset puppy;
white, With brown and black markings. An
aristocrat, with twelve champions among
her forebears; but she clowned and she
chased, and she loved people and kids and

other dogs as much as any mongrel on earth.

Reprinted from This Week Magazine. Copyright 1955 by the
United Newspapers Magazine Corporation.

By RICHARD JOSEPH

This moving document is a real letter,
written by Mr. Joseph to the Westport,
Conn., “Town Crier and Herald.” when
his dog V icky was run down and killed

by a hit—and-run dt‘l'I‘GT.

 

I’m sorry you didn’t stick around to see
the job you did, though a dog dying by the
side of the road isn’t a very pretty sight.
In less than two seconds you and that car
of yours transformed a living being that had
been beautiful, warm, white, clean, soft and
loving into something dirty, ugly, broken
and bloody. A poor, shocked and mad thing
that tried to sink its teeth into the hand
it had nuzzled and licked all its life.

I hope to God that when you hit my dog
you had for a moment the sick, dead feeling
in the throat and down to the stomach that
we have known ever since. And that you feel
it whenever you think about speeding down
a winding country road again.

Because the next time some eight-year-
old boy might be wobbling along on his
ﬁrst bicycle. Or a very little one might
wander out past the gate and into the road
in the moment it takes his father to bend
down to pull a weed out of the driveway,
the way my puppy got away from me.

Or maybe you’ll be real lucky again, and
only kill another dog, and break the heart

of another family. RICHARD JOSEPH

Westport, Conn.

 




 

 

 

 

Dr. Leon Abrevaya shows Eagle Scout
Jack Rosenzweig how to examine a cat.

Boy Scout Tours ASPCA

A 16-year-old Eagle Scout with a love for
animals toured the ASPCA Hospital and
Shelter recently and fortiﬁed his ambition
to become a veterinarian.

Jack Rosenzweig, of 135-15 228th St.,
Laurelton, L. I., was one of 150 top Scouts
in the Greater New York Councils partici-
pating in the organization’s ﬁfth annual
Scout Community Leadership Day —— de-
signed to acquaint them with jobs they hope
to ﬁll in later years. I

A student at Newtown Agricultural High
School, Jack’s hopes for the future include
veterinary studies at Cornell University and
then a job on a farm. Although he does
like dogs and cats, he wants to specialize
in farm animals. “I think life on a farm is
healthier,” he declared. “I decided that after
spending my summer vacations working on
a farm.”

As guest of Thomas A. Fegan, Hospital
Business Manager, and Frank Melvin, Man-
hattan District Manager, Jack paid close
attention as complicated hospital equipment
was explained to him. He stood by as veter-
inarians examined patients and witnessed an
actual operation in the surgery room.

A member of Troop 233, Jack has won
12 medals and 63 merit badges in four years
of scouting.

 

TV Cruelty Profesfed
ASPCA’s switchboard lit up like a neon

sign recently following a TV broadcast dur-
ing which a so-called hypnotist tried to
hypnotize a rabbit. The rabbit refused to
cooperate and the “Professor,” becoming
rougher and angrier, subjected the animal
to abuse for what seemed to Viewers like
an interminably long scene.

The morning mail brought more com-
plaints about the incident, prompting Di-
rector of Humane Work George H. Tuscher
to write the following letter to the network:

“The Society has received many letters and tele-
phone calls from members and friends all over the
country protesting the treatment a rabbit received
at the hands of a man who called himself ‘Pro-
fessor Willner’ on the Tonight Television Show.

“According to reports the man was supposed
to ‘hypnotize’ the rabbit but it would not coop-
erate and in the ensuing struggle he grabbed the
rabbit by its ears and hind legs and slammed it
down on its back repeatedly. As the struggle con-
tinued the performer became angrier and rougher
and ﬁnally climaxed his performance by telling the
audience that he had just learned the rabbit was
going to have young and that was the reason it
wouldn’t work properly.

“We would appreciate it if you would use your
good ofﬁces to prevent spectacles such as this which
are offensive to many of your listeners and which
fall short of your high standards.”

The network replied:

“Please be assured that NBC as you suggest
does try to maintain high standards in all areas
of our broadcast output, certainly including kind-
ness where animals are concerned. The outcome on
this particular broadcast was considerably aﬁeld
from that anticipated and a source of ill will
in no way wanted.

“I think your relay to us of adverse comment
will in no way be lost upon those of my colleagues
most directly concerned and I do thank you on
behalf of NBC for sounding a note of caution.”

Viewers who saw the show and were ap-
palled will be happy to know that Mr.
Tuscher also cautioned the performer
against putting on future acts of this na-
ture. The rabbit, taken to our Hospital and
examined carefully, was found to be suffer-
ing no after-effects.

19

 




 

Even Then . . .
(Continued from Page 7)

play ball, obey trafﬁc lights, feel guilt, curi-
osity and embarrassment — and to place
his faith in mankind.

A French naturalist believed the dog to
be man’s most remarkably complete and
useful acquisition and an absolute necessity
for the establishment of a civilized society.
It is perhaps only a coincidence but the
Tasmanians, the only people who did not
possess the dog never progressed beyond the
Stone Age.

Now —- Man’s Best Friend

Today in the Far North where snow
covers the ground every day of the year men
could scarcely live without dogs. Dog teams
are still the only safe and sure means of
transportation over the frozen lands. Sled
dogs haul food, mail, supplies and other
necessities to areas beyond reach of other
transportation.

The story of Balto, a sled dog which led
his team through blizzards carrying life-
saving serum to a stricken town in Alaska,
is legendary. A statue of Balto in Central
Park is New York’s tribute to this canine
hero.

Recently New York played host for a
couple of days to seven live sled dogs on
Visit from Canada and on display at the
Bank for Savings, 250 Fourth Avenue. They
boarded overnight at ASPCA’s Manhattan
Shelter.

The dogs, ranging in age from five months
to seven years, were alert, graceful, gentle,
friendly — and bi-lingual. They obeyed
orders given both in French and English by
their owner and trainer, J. A. Ratelle, of
Ste. Agathe de Monts, Quebec.

“‘Mush,’ ‘gee,’ and ‘haw’ are still the
good old standby commands for pulling
sleds,” says Mr. Ratelle, and we don’t have
to use whips. “A dog will give all ‘he has.”

Skippy, the playful baby of the group at
five months, was due to start training for
his life’s work. “At six months the dogs are

22

broken to harness, and at 10 months they
are already pulling loads up to 150 pounds
each,” explained Mr. Ratelle.

The owner and his dogs hail from the.
Laurentian Mountains, a Canadian resort
area where sled dogs are used for fun and
races as well as for work. Every year teams
from 500 miles around compete in the ln-
ternational Sled Dog Derby. Twenty to
thirty teams race for three days over a 90
mile course, competing for trophies and
honors. Last year’s winning team averaged
over 23 miles an hour.

* Huskies and Malamutes, the most common
breeds of sled dog, can stand weather as
cold as 32 degrees below zero. While sleep—
ing they use their plumed tails to cover their
faces against the cold.

Asked whether sled dogs can remember
trails if left to themselves, Mr. Ratelle told
about Kitty who ran out of the bank on
Fourth Avenue one afternoon and scooted
up one block to Lexington Avenue before
anyone realized she was gone. Mr. Ratelle
didn’t chase her, but waited. In a little
while Kitty returned on her own.

“If she could ﬁnd her way back in New
York trafﬁc, she could find her way any-
where,” he said.

 

J. A. Ratelle of Canada (second from
left). visi’rs New York with his sled dogs.

 

 




 

    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
    

ABOVE AND

BEYOND
THE BALL

Two dogs, a cat, a circus midget, an 80-year-
old woman and two teenagers were among
those awarded ASPCA Medals of Honor recently.

  

 
 

A Medal for a Dog
Fingal, the dog that saved a family of
nine from death by ﬁre in Wilton, Conn,
last month, has been honored by a medal
from the American Society for the Preven-
tion of Cruelty to Animals. Unhappily, the
medal was awarded posthumously, for Fin-
gal was killed in the blaze after his warning
had enabled the family of John K. Jessup,
chief editorial writer of “Life” magazine, to
escape with their lives.
Examples such as this of a dog’s heroism
are not hard to ﬁnd, yet whenever they oc-
cur they seem deeply movind. Obviously i
Fingal, if he had been so inclined, could i
have made his own escape from the ﬂames
and smoke instead of racing from bedroom r
to bedroom to awaken sleeping children
and adults.
The ASPCA medal symbolizes not only
the gratitude of those whose lives were
saved but the sympathy of countless others.

Robert B. Ferris presents medal to Dollar for
protecting owner Mrs. Jill Saccamano from
attacker who broke into her L.|. home.




 

DOG lay unconscious on the operating

table. ASPCA doctors were in the
middle of an abdominal operation
which would save the dog’s life. Suddenly
the animal stopped breathing. Immediately
the attendant reached for the tube of an
instrument which stood near the table, placed
it in the airedale’s mouth and flicked a
switch. In seconds the dog was breathing
again and the surgery went on.

The life-saving instrument the attendant
reached for was a resuscitator, widely used
in hospitals for humans and now adapted
to use for animals. The machine, installed in
our hospital several months ago, does a two-
fold job —— it can administer oxygen when
breathing is difﬁcult, or, as in the case of
the airedale, it will actually breathe for the
animal if its own breath fails.

During surgery, particularly on old ani-
mals or those generally considered poor sur-
gical risks, the machine is kept handy. If
the color of the animal’s membranes turns
blue or when breathing seems difﬁcult a
plastic cone is put over the animal’s mouth

VALUABLE DONATION SAVES LIVES

 
    
  
   
   
   
  
   
  
   
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
 
   

   

and a steady flow of oxygen passes into
the lungs.

If breathing has actually stopped, a rub-
ber tube is put down the windpipe and
the breathing mechanism is turned on. This
automatically inflates and deflates the lungs.
forcing in oxygen and draining out carbon
dioxide.

A steady rhythm of breathing in and
breathing out is set up until the animal
starts to breathe without assistance. A special
sound lets the doctor know when this takes
place.

Still another mechanism, affecting out-
flow only, can suck out foreign matter. This
is used when an obstruction in the windpipe
or mucous interferes with breathing. The
machine draws out excretion, depositing it
in a jar, ready for analysis.

During the very ﬁrst week it was used
the resuscitator, donated by Mrs. Katrina
Kindel in memory of her mother Mrs. Ed-
ward Cup van Asmus, saved the lives of three
dogs. In the months following it proved so
valuable that a second unit was installed
in another surgery room.

  

 




 

   
   
   
 
     
   
  

even then...

Man Meets Dog

How did the dog become domesticated?
Anthropologists have long pondered on the
ﬁrst association between dog and man. Many
think that the dog’s ﬁrst service to mankind
was as a scavenger who hung around cave
doors and cleaned up the garbage, tolerated
at ﬁrst and later valued for his work when
it became obvious it was simpler to feed a
dog than move camp frequently when the
odor of decaying food became unbearable.

Early man was grateful to the dog for
cleaning up the refuse. As the dog became
tamer, the beast was probably allowed a
place by the ﬁreside. Here the dog served
another purpose. To some extent he saved
men the trouble of setting a watch against
beasts of prey. Dogs set: up such a clamor
on the approach of a marauder that man
could relax his own vigil, and feel safer
at night with a few dogs around to sound
the alarm.

Many generations later, when dogs be-
came bolder, they not only haunted camp-
ing sites, but also followed man on hunting
expeditions, waiting for the kill and then

//,

hf”!!!

/
///// ' )72/2/ "”3”" ' w »
\Zf/Z/ ’, -; -%/

 
   
  
   
 
 
  
 
 
   
    
   
   
  
    
 
  
  
   
  
   
   

/

C

‘6

 

héhfﬂ

picking at the leavings. But the dog’s super-
ior tracking and hunting ability eventually
reversed the order, and for the ﬁrst time the
dog hunted and man followed.

It is reasonable to suppose that when man
exchanged his camp for a house in the
Stone Age and invented the canoe, two in-
novations which certainly meant cultural
progress, a basic change with his four-footed
followers must inevitably have followed. He
probably brought with him some tame speci-
mens of the still half wild dogs which had
distinguished themselves in the chase, and
thus made them into house-dogs in the true
sense of the word.

Finally the dog became man’s close com-
panion through the ages because he was
useful as a scavenger, hunter, scout, beast
of burden; bred freely; required little or
no care; was as hardy as man himself; and,
most important, he furthered our pleasures.
A dog was willing not only to share our
food, shelter and companionship, but to
adapt to our interests. He eventually learned
with us to loll on sofas, ride in automobiles,

(Continued on Page 22)

7

.I‘ﬁio, .9 Q37
//' !

 

   
 

-
J
.

 

 




 

SILKY

 

 

 

 

NEW breed of dogs — new to this

country, that is — is threatening the
top popularity position of the beagle, dach-
shund, boxer and cocker spaniel. Only re-
cently imported from Australia, the Sydney
Silky, which to the uninitiated looks like
a scraggly mutt, is fast moving up in the
ranks of traditional favorites. Two years ago
there were only 30 in this country. Now
there are several hundred. Last February
the Westminster Kennel Club show, top dog
show in the Country, saw one Silky entry.

Distantly related to the Yorkshire Terrier,
the Silkies are not listed by the American
Kennel Club. However the few owners hope
their popularity and numbers will increase
to the point that AKC will offer them ofﬁcial
registration.

Last November the Club admitted another
new breed for registration —— the ﬁrst in

10

   

years. The Rhodesian Ridgeback, a native
dog of. South Africa, became the 112th
breed to be listed. There were then about
400 Ridgebacks in the United States.

ASPCA president Hugh E. Paine is one
of this country‘s few Sydney Silky owners.
A year ago Mr. Paine imported a pair of
the tiny terriers from Sydney. Waltzing
Matilda and Sydney Digger, only a few
months old at the time, made the trip by
plane in less than two days. “They were so
tiny,” Mr. Paine recalls, “that I could hold
both of them in the palm of one hand.”

Now fully grown, the terriers are still
small, weighing under ﬁve pounds each. But
they’re dynamite in small packages. They’re
fast, frisky, playful, curious and extremely
friendly. It’s no surprise that they’ve been
a favorite in Australia for years, and are
well on their way to winning ribbons as
well as hearts in this country.

Australian '
Charmer

Q




 

................................................
. . .

..................................................

»..
..................................

...........................

.............

- .

I ' ..-'.....-.-,-......,.--...
.. . ........‘._...._._.._.,. __-,_._.,.....,-_-_..-......‘.,..... .
. ..,~.._...,.4.A............ . 3,. ‘ .

.........................................
....................................................................................
..............................................................................
.........................................................................................

......................................................................

...........

...............................................................................
...............................

...............................

..................

 

 

 

 

 

. . “.5...“ ........

. i, ,5... . . ._._._.._._..',;,:,Eﬁgs-.35..._._.'._...'._.'.'._.‘..._2.3.: .....
..............................

 

/’ 5"
’, // 54¢

     
  

    
    
  
 

>\

)II‘i/l ‘\ i I; § _ - _ : -
c..\\\‘ r“ -' \xkv

§
Q
a

 

Thonks to the ASPCA Adoption Service
0 boy and his dog wolk into the future
together.

Thanks to your contribution heort-worming
scenes like this were repeoted I 1.842 times
lost yeor.

Proud as we ore of this record, we're con—
tident we con break it with tinonciol os-
sistonce from you. Please moil your gilt
in the enclosed envelope to

ASPCA ADOPTION SERVICE

 

 




ANIMAL PROTECTION

Published three times yearly by

The American Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

Founded and Incorporated 1866

Vol. 10, No. 1

Editorial Ofﬁce: 30 East 60th Street

Spring 1956

Editor, JANICE PAPRIN

 

OFFICERS ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICES TRafalgar 6-7700

 

HUGH E. PAINE, President

WILLIAM F. MORGAN, Vice-President
JAMES H. RIPLEY, Vice-President

THOMAS D. HUGHES, Vice-President
WILLIAM A. MEYERHOFF, Treasurer
WILLIAM L. BURTON, Secretary

LOUIS REYNAL, Assistant Secretary
WARREN W. MCSPADDEN, Assistant Treasurer

BOARD OF MANAGERS

JOHN D. BEALS, JR.
WILLIAM E. BUCKLEY
JOHN W. CROSS, JR.
JAMES H. JENKINS
ROBERT L. JONES
RICHARD C. KETTLES, JR.
JOSE A. MACHADO, JR.
ALASTAIR B. MARTIN
JOSEPH B. MURRAY

W. ROSS PROCTOR
WILLIAM A. ROCKEFELLER
WILLIAM ROCKEFELLER
GEORGE B. WAGSTAFF

Managers Emeritus
F. AMBROSE CLARK
HENRY J. FISHER
SAMUEL R. MILBANK

 

 

COVER PICTURE

Teen-ager hugs dog she just chose as
a pet in Manhattan Shelter Adoption
Ward. Pup was one Of 11,842 animals
adopted during the year.

World-Telegram and Sun photo by Higgins

 

 

 

Pictures unless otherwise credited are by AI Levine

441 East 92nd St., New York 28, N. Y. (York Ave.)

WARREN W. MCSPADDEN, General Manager

ARTHUR L. AMUNDSEN, Assistant General Manager

GEORGE H. TUSCHER, Director of Humane Work

GERTRUDE E. JOHNSON, Secretary to Committees

T HACHER, PROFFITT, PRIZER, CRAWLEY & WOOD,
Attorney and Counsel

HOSPITAL AND CLINIC FOR ANIMALS .
441 East 92nd St., New York 28, N. Y.

RAYMOND J. GARBUTT, D.V.M., Chief Veterinarian
THOMAS A. 'FEGAN, Business Manager

TRafalgar 6-7700

EDUCATION DEPARTMENT TRafalgar 6-7700, Ext. 31
441 East 92nd St., New York 28, N. Y. (3rd Floor)

PUBLIC RELATIONS DEPARTMENT
30 East 60th St., New York 22, N. Y.
JUNE ELIOT, Director

PLaza 5-1650

MANHATTAN SHELTER .
441 East 92nd St., New York 28, N. Y.
FRANCIS MELVIN, District Manager

TRafalgar 6-7700

BROOKLYN OFFICE AND SHELTER

233 Butler St., Brooklyn 17, N. Y.
(between Nevins and Bond Streets)

CHARLES R. WADSLEY, District Manager

TRiangle 5-9580

BRONX OFFICE AND SHELTER . LUdlow 3-2880
3960 Park Ave. (173rd St.), Bronx, N. Y. 57, N. Y.
N. MICHAEL BROMLEY, District Manager

QUEENS OFFICE AND SHELTER
94-27 158th St., Jamaica 33, L. 1.
ROBERT B. FERRIS, District Manager

REpublic 9-4041

RICHMOND OFFICE AND SHELTER
4 Willow Ave., Rosebank, S. I. 5, N. Y.
WALTER L. HOLLINDE, District Manager

GIbraltar 7-0122

 

 

 




 

 

 

    
   

ii

lOR LISTEN '

I : . , ;

   
 

.5
l

 

A Balanced Diet

by Leon Abrevaya, D.V.M.
ASPCA Hospital and Clinic

The right diet for your pet spells out good
health and Vigor, long life, a ﬁne coat and
the absence of disease. Modern civilization
has killed a house pet’s instinct so that if
he’s given a free choice of foods, he will
probably not choose as good a diet as you
can select for him. Therefore, it is up to
you to serve the right foods in the right
proportions.

Dogs, and cats too, will almost always
prefer meat. But contrary to a popular fal-
lacy, a dog can’t subsist in perfect health
on an all-meat diet. The opposite stand
which says that meat makes a dog vicious
is equally unsubstantiated. Dogs and cats
require the same complete range of food

elements in their diet —— minerals, proteins,
vitamins, and so on —— that humans do.
Vitamins

Discovered some 60 years ago, vitamins
have an important effect on nutrition, and
their lack in the diet may lead to deﬁciency
diseases both in humans and in pets.

Vitamin A, contained in butter fat, egg
yolk and fresh liver oils, prevents eye disease
and blindness. Vitamin D prevents bone
diseases such as rickets. Vitamin E is asso-
ciated with good pregnancy. Vitamin B 12
assists the normal functioning of the liver
and helps eliminate pernicious anemia. Vita-
min K is linked with the proper clotting of
the blood. Vitamin C, found in citrus fruits,

14

(”m mull

ll

.. Vlll Ill

 

is the only vitamin necessary to humans
which animals do not need.

A balanced ration of natural foods, in-
cluding meat, grains, cereals, eggs, cod liver
oil, ﬁsh, vegetables and milk will supply all
the vitamins a healthy pet needs. However,
a long illness, or a siege of diarrhea will
deplete the animal’s vitamin reserve, and
the veterinarian may prescribe supplemen-
tary multiple vitamin capsules.

Digestion

Mothers may rightly scold a child who
gulps his food. In humans some digestion
and grinding of food takes place in the
mouth. 50 food should be held in the mouth
and chewed as thoroughly as possible before
being swallowed. Dogs and cats, on the other
hand, may safely swallow their food in large
pieces because there is no digestion in the
mouth. Digestion of proteins (found in meat
and ﬁsh, which makes a large part of their
diets) takes place in the stomach. If the dog
chews food too thoroughly or eats only ﬁnely
chopped food it passes through the stomach
too quickly for proper digestion by the
stomach’s gastric juices. Consequently, large
chunks of meat are preferable to ﬁnely
ground meat.

Roughage

To help prevent constipation canine diets
should consist of a high percentage of un-
digestable material such as cereal, dog meals
and bran. These foods are not digested in
the stomach, but pass into the intestines and
stimulate defecation.

Milk

Contrary to a widely-held belief, milk does
not cause worms in puppies, although too
much milk may lead to diarrhea. Puppies,
and older dogs too, need some milk for
vitamins, fats and minerals such as bone-
building calcium. Cats, of course, need milk,
but it is by no means sufficient as the sole
food. Meat should make up most of the diet
with milk as a daily supplement.








 

 

 

 

 

 

        

/./
//

 

“‘/_ _

M/ﬁ l/ﬂl/f ”0y; ﬂare are some 220.9. N '

ORE than 17,000,000 families in the

United States own dogs. It’s a good
bet that if your family is one of them you
will soon debate the problem of what to
do with the canine representative when you
go on vacation. The possibilities usually
narrow down to leaving him with a neigh-
bor, boarding him at a kennel, or taking
him with you.

If you decide on the latter, and you’re
motoring by car you can save yourself and
your pet a lot of inconvenience if you
plan ahead.

First get your dog used to the car and
the idea of traveling a few weeks before
the trip. Just let him sit in the car with
the motor running so he gets familiar with
the sound. Then take him on a short trip
around the block. Gradually build up to
longer trips until he feels perfectly at home
in the car and shows no sign of car sick-
ness.

Once on the road if he should be troubled
with car sickness, a mild sedative will help.
Veterinarians recommend a sodium bromide
tablet crushed and dissolved in one table-
spoonful of water. Use a ﬁve-grain tablet

 

for small dogs, a ten-grain tablet for medium
size dogs.

Don’t let your four-footed friend move
around from one seat to another, but train
him to ride in one place. The floor of the
back is usually cool and less bouncy. If
you’re not sure he’ll be quiet, fasten him
securely on a short leash. He may become
painfully tangled in a long one. Although
it looks very sporting, don’t let him stick
his head out the window. It’s dangerous. He
may get something in his eye, and the wind
is bad for both his eyes and ears.

Feed Lightly

Don’t overfeed the dog before starting
out. While traveling continue giving him
light meals, served as regularly as you can
manage. You will want to take along his
food and water dishes, a spoon, a can opener
anda supply of dried and canned food.
Fresh meat can be purchased as you go for
a well-rounded diet. See that he gets plenty
of cool, but never iced water. It would be
handy to carry a thermos bottle ﬁlled with
water.

(Continued on Page 20)

5

  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
 
   
  
 
 
   
  
   

 

     
    




 

Because of Fingal’s bravery many a youthful
dog owner is today looking upon his own
pet with new pride and affection.

Editorial reprinted from
N. Y. Herald Tribune

Humane Worker Dies in Fire

An 80-year-old humane worker of Malone,
N. Y. was cited posthumously for an act of
bravery which cost her life.

A fire broke out in the three-story frame
house in which Miss Lucie Fessenden Gil-
bert lived with a couple and their six chil-
dren. All had made their way to safety
when Miss Gilbert missed her pet cat. Re-
turning to rescue the animal she was pre-
vented by flames from escaping.

Midget Stays with Circus Animals

Outside the town of Manzanares, Spain,
a man from the Spanish SPCA came upon
a midget sitting beside his dog in an empty
lot. The midget was guarding all that re-
mained of a once-great German circus.

The circus had conﬁdently invaded Spain
in the spring with 125 wagons, 70 per-
formers and a splendid menagerie of ele-
phants, lions, bears, dogs, horses, ponies
and monkeys. But business was bad, the
performers quit and wagons had to be sold
to settle debts. In Manzanares the manager
himself ran out, followed by the rest of the
performers, who went home to Germany.

Only Francis Grutzius, the 62-year-old
midget stayed Ion—to look after the ani-
mals. With his fox terrier Sweikof, Grutzius
camped out in a circus wagon, sleeping on
the ﬂoor, scrounging food from poor local
citizens.

Throughout the bitter cold winter and
into the ﬁercely hot summer the animals
died, one by one, and Grutzius buried them.
When the Madrid’s SPCA arrived, all that
was left of the once-proud circus was the
midget, his dog, ﬁve emanciated bears, a
scraggly monkey, three performing dogs and
one eagle, all too weak to eat.

The animals went to the Barcelona Zoo.

    
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  

TV star Herb Sheldon presents medal to
John Jakuboski and Robert Pellettieri for
saving 28 cattle in 0 Chester. N.Y.l tire.

The midget, weak and undernourished, went
back to Germany to recuperate. For his
stoicism Grutzius was cited with the ASPCA
medal.

Risks Death to Save Pup
Herbert Baron, of Albertson, Long Island,

was cited for a brave, but unnecessary, at-
tempt to save his pet from a blazing build-
ing. His dog, a kerry blue terrier named
Princess, had already escaped, it was dis-
covered later.

After searching through his blazing bun-
galow for Princess, Mr. Baron was trapped
by the ﬂames and was forced to dive through
a living room window to escape, adding
severe cuts to the bums he had already re-
ceived.

Three-legged Cat Saves Owner
Edith L. Mitchie, a high school teacher, of

Selma, Virginia, two years ago adopted a
homeless cat after it was struck by a train
and lost its tail and a leg.

The cat recently paid ‘her back, thereby
earning an ASPCA medal. Hoppie pounced
on and held by its tail a rattlesnake about
to attack Miss Mitchie. The cat held on
until Miss Mitchie got a garden hoe and
disposed of the snake.

17

    

  

 




  
 
 

   

Rabbits and chicks make fine pets for

children
' if the children really want them
' if the family has the space to keep
them
' if the children are old enough
° if they know how to care for them.

These are, big “ifs.” Too often at Easter
time well-meaning relatives and friends over-
look these factors when choosing an Easter
gift for a child. Rabbits are cuddly; chicks
are cute. But a few days. after Easter they
lose their novelty, they grow larger and
they become nuisances. All too soon, some-
times within weeks, they become sick and
die through lack of proper care. This is out
and out cruelty to the animal, not to mention
the shock of death to the child.

So choose a stuffed toy instead where the
child doesn’t live up to all the “ifs.”

For those children who do merit a live
pet, be sure to include with your gift a
booklet on the care of the animal. The chick,
duckling and rabbit all require about the
same care when it comes to warmth, food,
fresh water and a large clean home, pre-

    

lhree Weeks l

next Easter?

.ferably outdoors.

Chicks and ducklings for the ﬁrst few
days can live in a cardboard box, but after-
ward a coop must be built. Full-grown ducks
like to stretch their wings, so the coop must
be fairly large. Warmth is a must — 92
degrees the ﬁrst week, reduced three degrees
each week until room temperature is reached.

Feed chicks starter mash the first six
weeks, followed by growing mash. Feed
ducks a commercial baby-duck. food, plus a
small amount of leafy vegetables such as
lettuce, celery leaves, carrot tops or spinach.
Provide plenty of drinking water.

Rabbits need a hutch at least three feet
in length by two feet in hight by two feet
in depth. This should be ready before the pet
is brought home. A clean, dry pen is a must.
Rabbits eat bran, oats, meal or rabbit pel-
lets, plus well-washed but dried vegetables
such as carrots, cabbage, lettuce and turnips.
Fresh drinking water is essential.

Children should not be permitted to pick
rabbits up by the ears. As a matter of fact,

all these pets are delicate and must be

handled carefully.

15

This child was given two rabbits
for Easter. Will they still be alive

 




 

 

 

 

 

THE WORD PACHYDERM has so ﬁrmly
been ensconsed as the synonym for elephant
that we forget it is equally applicable to a
rhinoceros, hippopotamus, tapir, pig or
horse. Fact is, pachyderm means any thick-
skinned animal.

LONGEST SNAKE in the world is the
reticulated python of Asia —— 33 feet. Most
dangerously poisonous — King Cobra.

WHEN A SNAKE’S EYES BECOME
MILKY, the snake is ready to shed its skin.
And a snake can and will crawl over a rope
on the ground. But it does not roll like a
hoop and does not swallow its young for
protection.

LARGEST ANIMAL THAT EVER LIVED
is the blue whale —— 125 tons, 100 feet long
— still living today. Largest ﬁsh today ——
whale shark, which grows to nearly 60 feet
in length.

OWLS CANNOT SEE in total darkness, but
can see well in dim light and adequately in

daylight. Bats, too, can see fairly well even
in brightest Sunlight.

8

 

FASTEST RUNNING LAND ANIMAL ——
the cheetah or hunting leopard of Africa
and Asia, which can maintain a speed of

70 miles an hour.

BULLS DO NOT BECOME ANGRY when
they see red. They are color-blind! How-
ever, moving objects do irritate them.

ALL MAMMALS HAVE HAIR in varying
degrees. Even the hippopotamus, though it
appears hairless, has a scanty growth of hair
over almost the entire body.

A CAMEL’S HUMPS are fat and are used

for reserve food — not for water.

YOUNG BIRDS are not fed in rotation. The
one that sticks its head out the farthest and
hollers the loudest is fed ﬁrst.

THE ARCTIC TERN migrates the greatest
distance of all birds —— a round trip of
25,000 miles. It raises its brood in the
Arctic and spends its winters in the Antarc-
tic (taking the babies along).

PORCUPINES DON’T THROW THEIR




 

Vacationing with your Dog
(Continued from Page 5)

Take along his collar and leash, his bed-
ding and a few favorite toys to help make
him at home wherever you go. By all means
include his brush and comb for grooming,
but don’t overbathe your pet just because
it’s hot. And be cautious about letting him
go swimming. Dogs can get chilled and
overtired like humans.

Exercise Frequently

Make sure your dog gets sufﬁcient exer-
cise, particularly on long trips. Stop the car
frequently to let him run. The stretch will
do you good too. If you’re traveling in
warm climates, however, conﬁne the Vigor-
ous exercise to the cool hours of. the day
in the morning or evening.

Don’t let the animal off leash unless you’re
sure he’ll come back when you call or
whistle. But he may break away and be-
come lost, so be sure to have a license tag
on his collar. You will want to add the
name and address of a friend to be notiﬁed,
since your own home address won’t be of
much help if you’re not there.

For a small dog it’s a good idea to take
along a carrying case. Sometimes you can
check your pet in a restaurant or store, in-
stead of leaving him in the car.

If you must leave your pet in the car

alone, be sure it’s parked in the shade with
at least two windows partly open. And re-
member that although the car may be in
the shade when you park it, the sun will
shift.

Welcome Mat out for Dogs

Years ago, when traveling by car was a
daring adventure, few hotels, motels and
resorts accepted. guests with dogs. Today,
it’s different. Many places not only accept
well-behaved dogs, but as one motel owner
put it: “Some dogs are a lot cleaner than
people.” Of course, you will be responsible
far your dog’s behavior and any damage
he may do. So keep a close watch on him.

For ten cents you can get a booklet called
“Touring with Towser” from the Gaines
Dog Research Center, 250 Park Avenue.
New York 17, N. Y. Listed are 4,000 hotels
and motels which will accept canine guests.

If you can’t conﬁne your stops to these
places, other motels which do not allow dogs
in rooms will probably have no objection to
the dog sleeping in the car or can recom-
mend a boarding kennel nearby.

Finally, inquire ahead of time about
health, rabies and distemper certiﬁcates.
Mexico, Canada and many states require
them.

You’ll have fun taking your dog on your
vacation. He’ll enjoy the change of scenery
as much as you. And you’ll feel better know-
ing he’s well taken care of.

 

PLEASE REMEMBER THE ASPCA IN YOUR WILL
FORM OF BEQUEST

I give and bequeath unto “The American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals,” a corporation existing under and by virtue of the laws of the State
of New York, having its principal ofﬁce at 441 East 92 Street, New York, N. Y.:

the sum of ...............

..................... dollars.

all of my right, title and interest in and to ........................................ (description of
property) together with the buildings and improvements thereon.

20

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

N.Y. Zoological Society Photo

Mouse Opossums

Mexican Hitchhiker

A Bronx fruit store owner was more than
a little surprised one morning to find three
pairs of strange eyes staring at him from
behind a bunch of bananas. Further investi-
gation revealed three odd little Mouse Opos-
sums. ASPCA called for them and later de-
livered them to the Bronx Zoo.

Grace Davall, the Zoo’s Assistant Curator
of Mammals and Birds tells us about the
little marsupials:

There are approximately one hundred
kinds of Mouse Opossums found from Cen-
tral American to Patagonia. They range in
size from species less than three inches long
with a tail of equal length to the largest
with an overall length of seventeen inches.
This species is Mamosa mexicana.

Mouse Opossums are strictly nocturnal.
They prefer forested areas where they feed
on beetles, moths and other insects, also soft
pulpy fruit. Their fondness for bananas often
leads them to banana plantations and it is
not to unusual to ﬁnd these creatures in
shipments of this fruit.

TV Show to Visit ASPCA

“Let’s Take a Trip,” the CBS-TV show,
is taking a trip to the ASPCA Hospital and
Manhattan Shelter on Sunday, March 25 at
12 noon. The traveling trio ——nine-year-old
Ginger McManus, 11-year-old Pud Flanagan
and their host and guide, Sonny Fox —— will

adopt a puppy from our Adoption Ward.
The cameras will follow the entire procedure
including the purchase of the license, exam-
ination of the puppy in the Hospital and a
lesson in obedience training in the classroom.

Don’t Forget
Your Dog’s 1956 License
The deadline for New York City dog

license renewal is April 30. Send $3, to-
gether with last year’s certiﬁcate, to the

ASPCA shelter in your borough.

For a new license give your name, ad-
dress, telephone number and a full descrip-
tion of the dog — age, sex, name, breed,
color, special markings. The law requires
all dogs to be licensed, regardless of age.

The license tag on your dog’s collar is
his best insurance of being returned if he
is lost. So be sure he wears it. Each year
many thousands of lost dogs are reunited
with their owners through their license.

 

 

New York Daily Mirror photo

Mrs. Walter P. Chrysler. Jr. (left) chairman'
and Mrs. Robert A. Boucher are lost in ad-
miration of stuffed. cross-eyed dog set up
in hall to greet arriving guests at the sixth
annual Animal Kingdom BallI held at the
Hotel Pierre for the benefit of our Adoption
Service Clinic.

 




  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
    
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
 
 
   

Arm/I Ma/a -

«5’ 177/ 50/7);
57/00;

RMY mules have proved in high altitude

and cold weather training exercises in

the Rockies that they still can solve difﬁcult

military problems for which elaborate mech-
anized equipment is useless.

After more than 125 years of continuous
Army service in the United States, the mule
deﬁnitely is going strong. Helicopters and
new tracked vehicles being turned out by
Army Ordnance have made mules as obso-
lete for many types of combat operations
as horse cavalry.

But in Exercise Lodestar, recently carried
on near the Great Divide, it was clearly
shown that a mule train can carry 175-
millimeter howitzers and other artillery into
snow-covered mountain areas where no
tracked or wheeled vehicle ever could pene-
trate.

The mule is not roadbound; his sure foot-
ing can take him to mountain crags where
thin air and high winds would make heli-
copter landings with present equipment im-
possible.

Army mules distinguished themselves in
many theatres during World War II —— par-
ticularly along the Ledo Road linking India
and Burma and in the mountains of Italy.

Their contempt for artillery ﬁre has be-
come a tradition. Right now all those serving

x y ( riﬂ/
/////

     
    
     

‘ \.A .
-'/.""///. ﬁll/32%?

1.. . a, / .
/’///I/l";l/I////’////
u;'

A %g

/

c

/

in the United States military establishment
are enrolled either in the 4th Field Artillery
Battalion or in the 35th Quartermaster Com~
pany. The “meanness” of mules is disputed
to a man by officers and men of these com-
panies, who say that present Army mules
simply have “strong characters.”

Maj. William Davis, who has the distinc-
tion of being the Army’s only “mule pro-
curement ofﬁcer,” estimates there probably
are 2,000,000 mules in the United States
but that only a small percentage come up
to Army standards. Army mules must be
between 5 feet 6 inches and 5 feet 8 inches
tall and have bellies rounded so that a pack
saddle will stay put.

Mule Retires on Full Pay

A perfect example is Hambone, the senior
Army mule, now almost 20 years old. In
his youth he won several jumping contests
at horse shows before some bright sergeant
discovered he was a mule and put him to
work. A highly respected ﬁgure at Fort
Carson, Colorado, Hambone receives pri-
vates with the élan a less stubborn animal
would reserve for generals. While he was
never decorated as the head of the pack
he was retired on full pay.

 

 




ASPCA

INDEX

How to Report a Case of Cruelty
Conservation or Extinction

Valuable Donation Saves Lives

Vacationing with Your Dog?

To the Man Who Killed My Dog
Even Then . . . .
Doing What Comes Naturally .

Sydney Silky—Australian Charmer .
Army Mule —Still Going Strong .
ASPCA 90th Anniversary

The Doctor Listens .

Three Weeks to Live?

Above and Beyond the Call

Boy Scout Tours ASPCA .

TV Cruelty Protested .

An Extra Dividend .

Animals Benefit from New Drug

Mexican Hitchhiker

Letters .

The American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

lerman Printing Co., N.Y.C.

 




 

 

 

Richard Mark Reid holds ﬁve of the
puppies born to his cocker spaniel Wig-
gles. Two pups were already adopted.

An Extra Dividend

Newspapers are full of stories about
babies being born in taxis on the way to the
hospital. Here’s one about a cocker spaniel
in the same situation.

The parents of Richard Mark Reid, 9,
of Flushing, N. Y., recently brought home
a healthy looking female cocker spaniel from
ASPCA’S Adoption Service. A few days
later Richard noticed his dog was listless
and at the same time seemed to be growing
heavier and heavier.

Puzzled by her behavior, the family de-
cided to take Wiggles to our Hospital for
examination. What ailed Wiggles became all
too clear in the taxi when one eager puppy
jumped the gun. Six more tiny healthy
puppies were delivered in the Hospital.
Mother and babies did ﬁne in the maternity
ward for several weeks. Richard visited his
pet frequently, and when the puppies were
old enough the boy canvassed among all his
friends to ﬁnd a home for each one. When
the last puppy was adopted, he proudly took
Wiggles home again.

The return trip in the taxi was unevent-

ful.

Animals Beneﬁt from New Drug

A new drug—~recently used successfully
with human patients in mental hospitals—
has been tried in ASPCA’s Hospital with
animals and found extremely effective.
Chloropromazine, which has worked virtual
miracles on human mental patients, calms
them and makes them more receptive to
treatment. It does not in itself cure, but it
puts the patient in a better frame of mind so
the doctor can reach him with psychiatry or
other therapy. Many patients who spent years
in mental hospitals with no improvement are
now able to go home, at least partly cured.

Now we are using the drug on nervous or
Vicious animals and note a complete change
in behavior. Chloropromazine makes it pos-
sible to handle the animals with greater ease
and thus improve treatment.

Pays for Death of Puppy

A Brooklyn bricklayer who allegedly at-
tacked a puppy that died from its injuries
was ordered in court to pay the dead dog’s
veterinary bill and provide an extra $20 so

its three young masters could get another pet.

The ASPCA joined a cab driver, his two
children and a nephew, in pressing charges
against the offender, who they said struck
the dog and kicked it. When the family took
Lucky, a four-month-old part collie and part
shepherd, to a veterinarian he found the dog
in such serious condition that he advised
they take it to the ASPCA shelter, where
it died.

In Special Session court Justice Herman
Hoffman told the man, “Our courts have
little regard for anybody who inflicts in-
juries on or strikes any animal.”

Justice Hoffman then directed the man to
pay $65, covering $45 for the veterinary bill
and an extra $20 to purchase a new animal
for the children.

21

 




 

  

Conservation or Extinction
(Continued from Page 3)

meat potential; if educated, he considers his
knowledge wasted on caring for animals.

This leads to the second difﬁculty — get-
ting native keepers and caretakers for the
refuges. “Those who rear wild animals may
differ widely on their ideas in milk formulae
and other feeding ingredients,” he says, “but
there is one constant and essential require-
ment extremely difficult to obtain in Africa
— namely human care and understanding.”

This is a serious problem because success
in rearing wild animals depends largely on
establishing a bond between oneself and the
animal, maintains the game warden.

He points to Gussie, a young giraffe.
separated illegally from her mother by some
native hunters only 241 hours after birth.
After a three day trip to the compound she
scorned animal company, but received all
human visitors with obvious pleasure, curi-
osity and sticky licks of her purple tongue.

As a rule animal companionship is the
ﬁrst thing to provide for all young creatures.
Even animals of different species can live
together amicably and provide each other
with a joint sense of security which would
be lost upon separation from the mother.

Unweaned baby elephants, for instance,
show a great need for companionship. The
orphan will usually adopt as its mother the
first person on the scene. Molloy reports that
a game scout was once adopted by a baby

 

 

elephant and for two days the small foster
child trotted behind him through the brush,
drinking the milk substitutes he was offered
and sleeping beside his protector at night.
Unfortunately, despite every care and ex-
pense lavished on the little fellow, he sur-
vived for only ﬁve weeks.

Young elephants have been among the
most difiicult of wild animals to rear, be-
cause they fail to survive. On the other hand,
Molloy is particularly proud of a pair of
young white rhinoceroses which he reared
for six months in his garage and an outside
enclosure. Rhinoceroses, even of the black
variety, readily become tame in captivity,
he reports, and the white can be trained to
remain gentle and reliable until maturity.
Paul and Chloe were disciplined from youth
to insure ease of handling in maturity. They
were taught to line up for their food, and
would stand together fidgeting and mewing,
until the word was given. Invited, they would
rush forward to their own bowls and drink
noisly side by side like amiable pigs.

Eventually the pair were flown to the
Zoological Gardens in Antwerp, Belgium,
where they are regarded as prize specimens
because there are only three or four pairs
of white rhinoceroses in captivity in the
world outside Africa.

Experts agree that if these great creatures
of nature are to avoid the fate of the Ameri-
can buffalo, public opinion, government agen-
cies and professional conservationists will
have to step in with some drastic measures.

Young white rhinocer-
oses spent six months
in African game pre-
serve betore being sent
to Belgian zoo.

  
 
 
 

  




 

 

How to Report
A Case of Cruelty

The ASPCA received 4,526 complaints of
cruelty to animals last year. Too many could
not be investigated thoroughly because in-
sufﬁcient information was given. This is
tragic. Flagrant cases of cruelty may go un-
punished just because well-intentioned ani-
mal lovers did not supply full details.

ASPCA agents cannot, of course, be every-
where. They can’t see every case of cruelty
as it occurs. We must depend in great meas-
ure on the reports of the public. But to be
really helpful in reporting a case of cruelty,
animal conscious citizens should bear in
mind a number of important points.

The ASPCA, as its very name implies,
is ﬁrst of all, an organization for the pre-
vention of cruelty to animals. Therefore, to
put ﬁrst things ﬁrst, we try to prevent.
correct and educate those who would mis-
treat animals. However, when this fails, we
will not hesitate to go into court.

Some people expect us to leap right into
court with every complaint. This is impos-
sible. The very Constitution of the United
States safeguards the rights of all persons
charged with crime —— cruelty to animals,
or any other charge. A person is presumed
innocent until proven guilty. The prosecu-
tion must prove the guilt beyond a doubt.

Broadly speaking, only two kinds of evi-
dence are admissable in a criminal action
—— direct and circumstantial. Hearsay evi-
dence, rumor, suspicion, even ﬁrm belief,
have no place in a criminal prosecution. No
matter how ﬁrmly convinced or morally
certain you are, there must be proof of
some kind, preferably eye witnesses.

Cruelty laws for New York State are em-
bodied in Article 16 of the Penal Law of
the State of New York. (Each state has its
own laws relating to cruelty.)

The act, omission or neglect must be un-
justifiable; it must be physical; it must cause
pain; and it must inﬂict suﬂering. All four
elements must be present in some degree
before a case can be prosecuted.

It is evident then that mental suffering,
lonesomeness, unhappiness, discontent, ex-
cessive barking —— unless it is due to pro-
longed hunger or physical violence — cannot
be considered cruelty according to the law.

However, we welcome all reports of
cruelty, and our Special Agents investigate
every one within our jurisdiction. But we
request your help in making our job easier
— and thus more effective.

1. Give full details —— exact address if
at all possible (not “third house from the
corner”), date, time, names, description of
animal, exact offense, duration of offense.

2. Sign your name to the complaint.
Names of complainants are kept strictly
conﬁdential. Although all reports are in-
vestigated, anonymous complaints are often
extremely difficult to handle, particularly
when insufficient details are given. We have
no way of getting more information.

3. Be speciﬁc. Stick to the facts.

ll. Agree to testify in court, if necessary.

If the alleged cruelty occurs outside New
York State, and therefore outside our legal
jurisdiction, we cannot deal directly with
the case. Instead we quickly transfer all in-
formation to the local humane society.

No complaint is ever passed over lightly.
Each case is investigated. Many are cor-
rected by warnings; others are prosecuted
H almost always with success if the charges
can be backed up with sufficient evidence
and responsible testimony.

W

General Manager

 

 




LETTERS

 

 

 

Aid to Greece
F . . . thank you very warmly for having

sen-t us, through the kind care of Mrs.
Elvira Skevophylaka, the 100 injections
against distemper.

We shall always remember your generos-
ity and kindness in affording us the possi-
bility of coming to the help of our suffering
dumb animals.

GREEK S.P.C.A.

Corfou, Greece

Police Animals Saved

P . . . the splendid job performed by your
organization in rendering aid to Police De-
partment horse Doc. At about 4:15 pm. Doc
bolted and threw his rider in the vicinity of
Pelham Bay Park, Bronx. The horse then
ran away and was subsequently struck by
two automobiles, thereby receiving severe
lacerations on his legs and chest.

This office requested assistance from your
organization. The ASPCA ambulance re-
sponded and removed the horse to your
shelter where he was expertly treated.

The prompt and efficient manner in which
your oflice staff dispatched an ambulance to
the scene; the expert and efficient handling
in transporting a critically injured horse
under adverse circumstances; and the ex-
pert medical attention rendered to Doc, with-
out a doubt saved the life of the animal.

JAMES P. DERMODY
Inspector, Mounted District
City of New York Police Dept.

> An accident caused our Troop Mascot,
a Doberman Pinscher, to suffer a compound
fracture of a hind leg. This was well set by
a veterinarian, but the dog persisted in re-
moving the splint, causing a recurrence of
the fracture. Destruction of the dog was
advised.

94.

ad

I took the dog to your 92nd Street Hos-
pital. Dr. Raymond J. Garbutt then per—
formed a very wonderful operation on our
mascot, and today the picture is quite dif-
ferent. The dog is almost as she was before.
This is due only to the conscientious, dili-
gent and very capable efforts of Dr. Garbutt
and his staff. Never before have I been in
contact with so many fine people in any
one organization.

SGT. PETER MILo, N.Y.P.D.
Bronx, NY.

Little Dog Rescued

V My appreciation to the ASPCA and to
your Joseph Aranzullo for the ﬁne and hu-
mane rescue of the little dog today at 11th
St. and Fifth Ave. Not only did he do a
good job but the way he did it and his
kindness made .a great impression in the
neighborhood and new friends for the
ASPCA.

MRS. A. K. MARGOLIS

New York, N.Y.

Spanish Society

> I appreciate having received your litera-
ture which is very useful to me in my efforts
to make the work of our “Associacion
Madrilefia Protectora de Animales y Plantas”
of which I am president, effective.

You will undoubtedly know that it is a
bit of up-hill work to put an end to certain
feasts in Spain where animals are used as
an amusement to the public and exposed to
cruelty. A very strong campaign has been
made, trying to convince the masses that
ill-treatment of animals is base and repul-
sive in a civilized country.

CONDE DE BAILEN
Madrid, Spain

 

 

[Ix




will/I’ll,”

Extinction

 

4.\

x
P

 

:\<

Rhinoceroses and elephants may soon be-
come as obsolete as their pre-his-tor'ic fore-
bears unless stringent conservation regula-
tions are put into effect in Africa and Asia.
A commercial. target for poachers, these
animals among others are facing extinction.
Their horns and tusks, superstitiously valued
as an aphrodisiac, bring prices up to $2500
in both Continents’ market places.

ASPCA recently registered a protest with
the government of Kenya, Africa, where
natives were reported using poison arrows
in killing the beasts. The Game and Fisheries
branch of the Forest Development Depart-
ment replied that a more stringent anti-
poacher campaign was being planned.

The need for such conservation measures
throughout Africa and Asia has been pointed
up sharply by an animal expert just re-
turned from a 4:0,000-mile survey of 30
countries. Lee M. Talbott 0f the Interna-
tional Union for the Protection of Nature
made ﬁeld studies of animals from the
deserts of Saudi Arabia to Sumatran jungles,
which no white man had ever before pene-
trated.

Leading the list of vanishing big game
are the Arabian 'oryx, several species of

2

\_ '\v\<~ ~

Near-eastern gazelles, the elephant, the
Asiatic lion, and the great Indian Javan
one-horned rhinoceros, which numbers only
about 30 survivors.

The progress of wildlife conservation
practices in many of the countries is hearten-
ing, Mr. Talbott reported, pointing as ex-
amples to the Asiatic lion preserve in India
and the Javan one-horned rhino in Indo-
nesia. Several of the governments have the
equivalent of conservation departments and
these are working hard to protect vanishing
wildlife. The greatest need at present, he
said, is for more technicians trained in
wildlife management in the area.

Conservation in Sudan

The Southern Sudan, for instance, has an
extensive conservation program. Hunting for
food is permitted by law in the Southern
Sudan, but killing of immature animals and
animals accompanied by young is forbidden.
In practice, however, many young animals
and birds become separated from their
mothers and would undoubtedly be killed
on the spot or die of neglect Without the
Game Department’s care.

Small collecting stations, set up at stra-

tegic spots, are operated by specially selected
and trained native keepers.

Lt. Col. P. G. Molloy, the Sudan’s Assis-
tant Game Warden, has reared almost every
species of the area’s young animals in his
own garden at the main collecting station
at Juba, the southern headquarters of the
Game Department.

In an article in Country Life, a British
publication, he recalls that he has raised
elephants, rhinoceroses, baboons, jackals,
warthogs, oribis, giraffes, leopard cubs,
many types of antelopes, hyenas, porcupines,

monkeys, pythons, lizards, tortoises, many

birds, pangolins (scaly anteaters), and cara-
culs (in the cat family).

The conservationist’s problems are enor-
mous. Biggest of all, says Col. Molloy, is
the attitude of the African native. The
African, if uneducated, regards animals
from the point of View of their danger or

(Continued on Page 18)

A motherless elephant calf
was reared for ﬁve weeks In

Sudan compound.

 




t

>1.»

3.

‘5 . .-I.
T‘"Wr ‘vr-uvw wwﬁrs

This is the ASPCA’s 90th Anniversary.
As the ﬁrst and largest humane society
in America, we have cared for many
millions of animals since Henry Bergh
organized the Society in 1866. Through
the years our animal ambulances, a

familiar snght on the streets of New Latest sleek white car has 2-way short-wave radio, amber signal;

Horse ambulance put in service two years before Bellevue Hos- Yorka have been Part Of our parade 0f flashers, portable. spotlights. ﬁrst aid" cabinet. oxygen tank, stretcher.
pital introduced the, ﬁrst ambulance anywhere for human patients. progress.

t
I

 

' d cephalmlce for m‘: " ‘ * * I ' A i ' " Women drivers sport the latest In
,.tu.re_, an . , ome e55. animals. _ . t. _ A ' ._ _ - . ‘ clothing as well as motor fashions.

Goggled- agent drives spe~v
cial emergency runabout.

 

then.
Electrically~operated
,hcrse ambulance.

- Theme ’rnechont’zed animal debuteace.

 




