 

December 1958

KlNlD LADY

Reprinted from THE RACING PlGEON

Sir,—l would like, through the columns of The
Racing Pigeon, to thank a young lady, Miss S.
Peters, of 9 Ismay Road, Arle, Cheltenham, a
member of the RSPCA, for her kind and thought—

ful action to one of my pigeons.

Miss Peters reported a pigeon of mine which
failed to return from Guernsey young bird race
on August 16. On receipt of Union notiﬁcation
card on August 23 I wrote asking her to return
the bird to me (this letter she would not have

THE ANIMAL'WORLD 143,

received until Monday, August 25). On Sunday
about 4. 20 Miss Peters arrived with her mother
at my house complete with bird, bag of grit, and
corn; after travelling over 30 miles by bus——
which unfortunately was marred by missing a "

connecting bus through a breakdown—in the
rain.

I say thank you to this young lady, and to the
organization which she represents. It deserves all
the praise it is given.

Swindon E. F. SPURLOCK

CGLLECTJIGNS

(We give, wherever possible, the place at which the collection
was made and the name of the organizer or organizers.)

    

ﬁx.- - .-: ._.-.;.I«.§.-- 5,.
A springer spaniel wears collecting panniers
—and helps the RSPCA.
HOUSE—TO—HOUSE ' d
£ 3.
Furness and Barrow, Mr G. Calderbank,
branch hon sec .. 59 12 11
Gravesend, Mrs Pollen, aux hon sec 85 10 5
Wearhead, Mrs Fletcher, aux hon sec 1 5 17 8
sandwich, Miss G Woodruﬂ, aux hon sec 49 4 O
Abbots Bromley, Mrs Wilson 6 11 4
Leeds, Mrs Hume, branch hon sec. 12 8 O
Armitage and Rugeley, Mrs Hudson, aux
hon sec . 15 5 O
Blunham, Mrs Harris, aux hon sec i 3 1 O
Burwash, Miss J. Maude Roxby, aux hon sec 8 10
Ardingly, Mr A. I. Hett, aux hon sec . . 9 4
Thrapston villages, Mr W J. Harris: branch
hon sec . 14 12
Braithwell, Mrs Parkes 4 13
Wolsingham, Miss S. M. F. Downie, aux hon
sec . 11 10
Wells and Walsingharn, Mrs Purchas, aux
hon sec 30 3
Welwyn Garden City, Mr P. H Marriott
aux hon sec 83 1
Eastdean, Mrs Hughes, aux hon sec” 33 3
Frosterley, Mrs Ross, aux hon sec 4 ‘2
Uley, Mrs Grigg, aux hon sec 12 13
Thornton Heath and S. Norwood, Mrs
Harding, aux hon sec ‘ 6 3
Barnburgh, Mrs Mennell . 9 17
Goodwick, Miss L. Holmes, aux hon sec 11 18 1
Newhaven, Miss C. Budd, aux hon sec 33 10
FLAG DAYS , d
£ 5. .
Scunthorpe, Mrs M. Yare, aux hon sec 46 1 4
Wath— —on Dearne, Miss Arundel .. 21 4 O
Rawmarsh, Mrs Simons, Mrs Goad, Mrs
Whitaker and Miss Hudson 15 3 1
Swinton, Yorks, Mrs Reader, aux hon sec,
and Mrs Firth y... 13 7 2
Swallownest, Mrs Sampson 15 17 4

Or—H—to Oxooxo N \O ow 4:0

£ 5. d.
Bramley, Mrs Nixon . 2 13 6
Kilnhurst, Miss Russell, aux hon sec 3 3 O
Harthill, Mrs Wall, aux hon sec 11 14 6
Wentworth, Mrs Biddulph Thomson, aux

hon sec 9 1 O
Thurcroft Collieries, Miss smith, Mrs Cloke

and Mrs Mitchell ... 10 6 10
Folkestone Beach Collection, Miss K.

Parsons, branch hon sec 23 16 10
Goole, Miss G. E. D. Bevan, div hon sec 111 19 6
Gateshead on Tyne, Mrs M. Watson, aux

hon sec, and Mrs A. D. Wyllie, aux

hon treas .. 183 O O
Cowes, Isle of Wight, Mrs Ruler, aux hon

sec, and Mrs Kennett . 54 3 4
Fleetwood, Lancs, Mrs C. Mossop, aux

hon sec 41 10 11
Reading, Miss B. M. Wadland, branch sec 314 1 6
Hexham, Mr M. A. Iley, branch hon sec 88 6 7
Trowbridge, Mrs E. E. Pitt, aux hon sec ' 91 3 0
South Molton, Mrs A. Francis, aux hon sec 14 7 6
Loddon, Mrs R. G. Drake, aux hon sec 13 17 2
Chirk, Mrs Phillips, aux hon sec 17 14 10% '
‘Glynceiriog, Mrs Meakin, aux hon sec 14 0 8
Henﬁeld, Mrs Sturt, aux hon sec .. 9 O' 0
Breconshire, Mrs H. V. Bagshawe, branch

hon sec 163 19 5
Bishop Auckland, Miss G. C. Baines, aux

hon sec . 48 9 O
Stoke—on-Trent Mrs A. Berry, branch

hon sec 380 2 6

 

 

Collectors assemble for Fowey Flag Day.

 




December 1958

THE ANIMAL WORLD - 7 139

 

 

NIGERIA

    
  

A gift from Chief W. H. Biney is this animal ambulance
photographed at the presentation ceremony when it was
received by the Nigerian Federal Branch. Chief W. H.
Biney was unable to attend the ceremony, but his son,
Mr H. K. Biney, was present.

Below, left, the poultry stall at Oyingho Market, Lagos,
shows that poultry, thanks to the vigilance of RSPCA
Inspectors, is no longer overcrowded; right, lnspector
M. 0. Gabriel checks on a bull’s injured leg at Apapa.

...................

 

RSPCA SlNGAPORE BRAN C

m .....

   

On the right is Miss de Souza, Branch Secretary,w1thothe
members of the staﬂ'.

 

‘- ..' :ﬁ

Seeking a practical method of recognizing the honorary
work done for the Branch by Major C. A. Ogden (now Hon
Treasurer. and previously holding other ofﬁces in the
Branch) the Crowborough and East Grinstead Branch
decided to provide a new ambulance for work overseas in
the Penang and Province Wellesley Branch. The pictures
were taken when the van, carrying a suitable inscription,
was delivered to the Branch.

  

BEAVER ENGINEERS

One of the largest beaver houses known to exist
in Northern Manitoba has been discovered by
Canadian National Railways engineers surveying
the route of the new railway line between Optic
and Chisel Lakes. .

Mr J. L. Charles, consulting engineer for the
CNR, described the house as being approximately
15 feet in height, with a diameter of 35 feet and
circumference of over 100 feet.

In order to provide a protective body of water
with which to surround the giant house, the
beavers constructed a dam across a creek ﬂowing
into the Grass River approximately 25 miles
north of Cranberry Portage. Beavers, the original
Canadian engineers, carried out an outstanding
job, for the dam is some 300 feet long and from
five to ten feet high. It represents many ‘beaver
hours’ of labour.

 

«3’5: rl;——';—.-- 4., ~ - - x. ‘ \x‘; 4?‘ ‘K‘
. ‘: Eﬁfawr—n “w:::.~-__?.‘-r:~z" ,—.‘ "-1:- '\¢r-4\‘\ ’2‘\\\

(

          

 

.1.“
J71. X'Ifo ,...

I

 

 

Miss R. Hoare writes: The tit is happiest if his food is hung
from the tree and a friend devised this food container. A
small quantity of wire is required, approximately l0 inches
by l7 inches, with fairly large holes. This is bent in two and
the sides and bottom sewn up with strong cotton, to make a
purse. The food (tits are especially fond of fat) is then put
inside the opening and the sides pressed together. The tits
are then able to eat the food through the holes.

The bigger birds do not touch the bag very much, pre-
ferring to have their food on the ground.

PERFORMING ANIMALS

At a period when our first object is to spread
goodwill we should think of unhappy wild ania
mals who spend their lives in cages except when
they are released to go through unnatural antics
on the stage or in the circus ring.

The RSPCA has campaigned for many years
against the exploitation of trained performing
wild animals and it urges all who support it to
make this tangible gesture of protest: do not
patronize these shows.

 

 




Incorporating “The Wingeei Messengér’

 

VOLUME LIII N0 1 I FOURPENCE ECEMBER 1958

.1

Photo} [Courtesy Daily Mirror

CHRISTMAS PARTY

THE OFFICIAL ORGAN OF THE RSPCA

 




 

ROYAL SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS
Founded 1824 Headquarters: 105 Jermyn Street, London, S.W.1

 

PATRONS

HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN
HER MAJESTY QUEEN ELIZABETH, THE QUEEN MOTHER
HER ROYAL HIGHNESS PRINCESS ALICE COUNTESS OF ATHLONE
HER ROYAL HIGHNESS PRINCESS ARTHUR OF CONNAUGHT

PRESIDENT
SIR MALCOLM SARGENT, HON LLD, D MUS, FRCM, FRSA

VICE-PRESIDENTS
THE EARL OF SHAFTESBURY, KP, PC LT-COL SIR THOMAS MOORE, BART, CBE, MP ANTHONY GREENWOOD, ESQ, MP

THE COUNCIL

Chairman: LT-COL J. C. LOCKWOOD, JP, TD
Vice-Chairman: R. F. RATTRAY, ESQ, MA, PhD

 

 

 

AGIUS, THE REV DOM AMBROSE, OSB, MA *EVANs, MRS DAVID, BA POULETT. THE RT HON THE EARL
AILWYN, THE RT HON LORD GALWAY, THE DOWAGER VISCOUNTESS *PRITCHARD, MRS D.
*ALLIBERT, MRS GARDNER, HON JULIET *RIECK, H. H., ESQ
*ALSOP, ALDERMAN A. J., FRCA, FCIS, JP HOBHOUSE, J. 5., ESQ SIBLY, w. A., ESQ, MA, JP
*BELL, G. R., ESQ HOWELL, BASIL P., ESQ, MBE SNELL, ALDERMAN THE REV PREBENDARY L. J. B.
BERTIE OF THAME, THE RT HON THE vISCOUNTESS *HUNTER, Mlss MBE, TD, HON CF (HEREFORD)
BRANSOM, MISS L. G., FRSA LEE, MRS E. M. *TAIT, MRS, MA
BYWATER, H. E., ESQ, MRCVS LLEWELLYN, THE REV CANON LEONARD, L TH *WALEORD, MRS DESBOROUGH
COLLINSON, MISS N. M. LONGMAN, MRS w. WARDS, COLONEL, GT, CMG, OBE
COPE, MRS JOHN MACNAGHTEN, A. I., ESQ, BA *WHITE, HARRY, ESQ, FCA
COTTERELL, LT-COL I- M. V-: OBE *MCPHAIL, MRS ALISON LETITIA, MB, CH B WILLERT, SIR ARTHUR, KBE
DORCHESTER, LT-COL THE RT HON LORD. OBE, JP MOORE, LT-COL SIR THOMAS, BART, CBE, MP *WINCHESTER, F. J., ESQ, FCIS, FSS
*DOWDELL, MRS M. R. * . WOOLLEY, SIR CHARLES, GBE ,KCMG, CMG, MC
ESTCOURT-OSWALD, MISS AGNES, MB (LOND), DPH DenOtes Branch Representatlve

(CANTAB), DOMS

 

OFFICE BEARERS APPOINTED BY THE COUNCIL

Hon Treasurer—HARRY WHITE, ESQ, FCA Chief Secretary—JOHN HALL, ESQ

Deputy Hon Treasurer—H. H. RIECK, ESQ Assistant Secretaries—D. A. L. CAMM, ESQ, BA
Hon Medical Officer—A. N. CRAWFORD, ESQ, FRCSI ALLAN JOINER, ESQ
Bankers—MESSRS COUTI‘S AND CO, STRAND, LONDON Legal Secretary—R. MURRAY, ESQ

_ Chief Veterinary Ofﬁcer—LT-COL D. I. C. TENNANT, MRCVS, MRSH
AudltorS—MESSRS VINEY, PRICE AND GOODYEAR, CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS
Telegrams—WHITEHALL 7 177 Telephone—Whitehall 7 177

 

RSPCA TANGAN YIKA DIVISION

    

RSPCA FETE At the naming ceremony of the Division’s new Mobile Unit

L d T . . k , t t'n r' t th h'l- for educational propaganda, left to right: Assistant from
dFerII’s f“; 3,12% $235 af er present g P mes a e C ' Tanganyika Broadcasting Co (recording), Mr Abdul

Karimjee (President), Mrs Von der Hyde, Inspector
Mohamed Mussa, Mrs E. Tait, Mrs Fletcher-Cooke, Mrs N.
Dastur, Lady Davies, Mr P. Everett and Mrs Isobel Slater.

 

STEEL TOOTH TRAP
From July this year, it became an Offence to use, for the purpose of killing or taking any animal, a spring trap
other than one approved by the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food.

This has the effect of making the use of the gin—or steel tooth trap—illegal, and the RSPCA is maintaining
a careful watch that the ban imposed on the gin is strictly Observed,

 

 

 

 




  
  

 

FLAG DAY
GOODS

PLASTIC BADGES

LIST 0N APPLICATION

THE UNIVERSAL BUTTON CO. LTD.

1-9 Birkbeck Street, Bethnal Green, LONDON, E.2
Telephone: BIShopsgate 5750

      
    
     

  

  
    

Telegrams: ‘Unibutco Edo’

 

 

 

NOAH’S ARK FROM CIGARETTE PACKETS

The attractive animals and wall plaques shown in our pic-
ture represent the handiwork of Mr Dawkins. His skill in
this unusual hobby has beneﬁted Kent—Dover Branch to the
tune of £50 l25. 6d. (up to September 30, I958).

Mr Dawkins had, up to the time when this sum was raised,
distributed l2 camels, 247 dogs, l7 elephants, 60 giraﬁes.
in making them he has used over 25,000 cigarette packets.
They are collected by friends, some of whom he has made
through this hobby, in various parts of the country.

Each article bears the RSPCA emblem, which acts as a
reminder of the Society wherever Mr Dawkin’s work is
shown.

 

 

‘NATURE-GIFTS’

for Animal-lovers

   

Send 6d. for l6pp. Catalogue of over 300 Gift items. Seed
Hopper l3/6; Peanut Feeder ||/9; Tit Bell l0/9; Lighthouse
Peanut Feeder l9/6. Toilet Soap with Bird, Horse or Cat and
Dog Pictures which do not wash off, 5/3 box. Five-year
Diaries from 9/3; Dog Whistle (silent and loud) 8/l I. From
Children’s Section: Realistic Whale (dive, surface and spout)
2/6; Clockwork Helicopter 6/9; Large Kaleidoscope 3/ll;
36-inch Kite complete with parachutes, etc. l9/l l; Bird Sanc-
tuary catalogue 4d.

Dept. 8, Greenrigg Works, Woodford Green, Essex

 

 

 

   

 

 

 

TEMPLE COX CAPTIVE
BOLT SLAUGHTERING
GUNS

Specially recommended and used by the RSPCA

THREE MODELS—ALL SILENT IN
ACTION

‘UNIVERSAL' for all animals
‘SMALLS’ for all small animals
‘MARK 6’ for all animals. Designed for heavy

use in large Abattoirs and Freezing Works

 

TEMPLE COX DEVELOPMENT CO. LTD
HIGH STREET: WBROMLEY, KENT

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

USED &TRUSTEDTHE WORlD OVER

-.:.:.:.;.;.:.:.;.;.;.;

   
 

  

SIMPlE...
_- 5m- "
,suma 7].;me XE

CAPTIVE BOLT PISTOL
FOR ALI. ANIMALS

‘y *~

ACCLES AND SHELVOKE LTD ' BIRMINGHAM ° 6° ENGLAsTSI:

  
  

 




December 1958

 
 
 
 
   
     

“(09411ch

$01067

Pictures by courtesy
(Ietf) Central Ofﬁce
of Information and
(below) Bournemouth
Daily Echo.

 
 

As many will
remember Mrs
Wallis Power;
above, genialiy
presenting an
RSPCA award;
right, the civic
dignitary.

The funeral service for Mrs Wallis Power was
held at Highcliffe Parish Church. The Chairman
of the Council, LtaCol J. C. Lockwood, accom’
panied by The Rt Hon The Viscountess Bertie
of Thame and Miss L. G. Bransom (Chairman of
the Education and Publicity Committee) at;

THE ANIMAL WORLD 137

guneral

tended the service on behalf of the Council.
Alderman the Rev Prebendary L. J. ‘B. Snell,

Council member, assisted at the service. Repre—

‘ senting the staff were: Mr J. Hall, Chief Secrev.

tary, Chief Inspectors Marsh and Lanning,
Senior Inspector Harland, and Inspectors Harv
ﬂeet, Abrahams and Felgate.

Among the numerous ﬂoral tributes was one

from the Council and Staff of the RSPCA.

 

@bituary

With sincere regret we report these deaths: Mrs
Turner, hon sec Dulverton aux.; Lady L. Paget,
vice—president of Surrey Kingston branch; Mrs
H. R. Hulbert, president and hon treasurer Ame
bleside aux. for 24 years and founder member
Westmorland branch; Miss E. J. Weatherby, life
member and member Bucks Branch Committee;
Mrs Murray, hon sec Llandilo aux.; Mr W. P.
Dickinson, chairman Hants Winchester branch;
Canon A. S. Cooper, vicevpresident Kent Dover

branch.

(St james’s (Service

There was a large congregation—including several
Council members—for the mid—week service for
all animal lovers, held by kind permission of the
Rector, the Rev J. S. Brewis, in St James’s Church,
Piccadilly, London. The preacher was the Rev
Canon Leonard Llewellyn, Council member,
and the lesson was read by the Chairman of the
Council, LtvCol J. C. Lockwood. Miss Isobel
Baillie was the soloist. A collection of £16 13. 1-12-d.
was taken for the Society.

 

 

The bleat, the bark, the bellow and roar
Are waves that beat on heaven’s shore.

WILLIAM BLAKE (17574827)

 

CRUELTY TO ANIMALS, by Dr Rattray. Continued from preceding page.

the ﬁrst statute ever to be enacted making cruelty
to animals a crime, an Act to prevent ‘the cruel
and improper treatment of cattle’. A society for
the prevention of cruelty to animals was founded
by an Anglican clergyman, Arthur Broome. Its
ﬁrst meeting was held in 1824. Its chairman was
Fowell Buxton. One of those attending was
Lewis Gompertz, an Anglo—Jewish pioneer in the
protection of animals. Wilberforce was a member
of the ﬁrst committee and Shaftesbury was a
supporter. The secretary was John Colam (he
founded the National Society for the Prevention
of Cruelty to Children).

In 1835 a bill introduced by Joseph Pease, a

Quaker, extending protection to domestic ani—
mals in general, was passed. .

Emerson drew attention to the fact that we
shut out of our minds the cruelties that precede
our eating of meat (as we do those that precede
animal performances in circus, cinema, television,
and variety).

In 1876, after great agitation led by Lord Care
narvon, was passed the Cruelty to Animals Act,
which regulated experiments on animals and is
still the Act governing this matter. Two of the
strongest supporters were Queen Victoria and
Charles Darwin. '

[To be continued]

 

 

 




 

December 1958

BRANCH NEWS

(Fund-raising eﬂorts are reported under the name of the Branch.
Wherever possible, we give the place where the function is held,
the type of function, and the name of the organizer or
organizers, followed by the sum raised.)

   
   

A cup for the best household pet went, at the Norfolk and
Suffolk Cat Show in I958, to Snowball, who was once
unwanted. Inspector Hyde placed Snowball with Miss
Mendham.

Carmarthenshire Ferryside, whist drive, Nurse S. E. King
(aux hon sec), £13.

Dorset North Harvest thanksgiving celebration, Mrs
Adams (West Moors aux hon sec), £7.

Forest Hill and Sydenham Forest Hill, sale, Mrs Pethard,
£20.

Furness and Barrow Ulverston, stall at coffee morning,
£18; sale of home—made marmalade, £10, Mrs B. A. Atkinson
(aux co hon sec).

Middlesex—North—West Coffee morning, Mrs Bransom,
assisted by Miss Bransom (Council member), £15.
Northumberland West Hexham, dance, Mr M. Iley (branch
hon sec), £45.

Oxford Witney, annual jumble sale, Miss Barbara M.
Barton (aux hon sec), £80.

Preston and District Preston, coffee morning and bring-
and-buy sale, Mrs H. Kay (branch hon sec), opened by the
Lady Mayoress, £120.

THE ANIMAL WORLD ‘ 141

Reading with Berks, Hants and Oxon Border Burchetts
Green, bridge drive, Lady Rawson (aux hon sec), £17.

Reading, animal service, Miss E. M. Wadland (branch
sec), £23 4s. 6d.

Richmond and District Barnes, jumble sale, Mr A. W.
Wigley (branch hon sec) and Miss B. J amieson (hon treas),

£100. Col G. T. Wards (Council member and branch chair-
man) attended.

Rotherham and District Ulley, whist drive, Mrs Belﬁeld
(aux hon sec), £7.

Rotherham, coffee party and bring-and-buy sale, Miss
Collinson (branch hon sec), £56 3s. 6d.

Shropshire Animal service held in the County School, Mrs

Dunning (Lawley aux hon sec), collection for Branch,
£2 15s. 3d.

Suffolk—East, and Ipswich Hollesley, whist drive, Mrs
S. P. Charles (aux hon sec), £25 5s. 6d.

Ipswich, jumble sale, Mrs Levitt and Mrs Hyde,
£26 17s. 4d.

Surrey—Guildford and District Guildford, two sales, Mrs
Merritt (aux hon sec), £560.

Walsall Walsall, bring-and-buy sale, over £200. His
Honour Judge H. A. Tucker (president) attended.
Yorkshire—Bradford and District Bradford, dancing dis-
play presented by Miss Riches; attended by Councillor H.
Whitehead (chairman). £150.

Percy the Pup,
official mascot
of Burgess Hill
auxiliary.

(Photo from Mr J.

Owen, auxiliary
chairman.)

 

 

ANIMAL TRANSPORT AND MARKETS. Continued from preceding page. ‘

was dead and three were in a poor physical condi—
tion; 19 were humanely slaughtered.

A veterinary surgeon who made a post—mortem
examination on the dead calf reported that it had
died from suffocation as a result of overv
crowding.

 

Recent Improvements

Senior Inspector Hawxwell, of Wakeﬁeld, re—
ports improvements in Pontefract Market. The
old wooden pig loading ramp has been replaced
by one made of brick and concrete. Wire has
been ﬁtted to the sheep pens which will prevent
the animals from escaping.

It is encouraging to learn from Senior Inspector

Harland of a new calf market at Kendal coma
prising asbestos roof and glass, ﬁtted sliding
doors and twelve draught—proof pens, each of

which holds thirty’ﬁve calves quite comfortably.
Calves are now taken straight from vehicles at the
dOOrs and loaded there after the sale, thereby
cutting out the need to walk and carry calves
some ﬁfty yards as hitherto.

From Senior Inspector Grant, of Grimsby, we
learn of improvements in Louth Market where
six brick—built loading pens have been installed at
the entrance of the sheep pens. These pens, facing
the main road, are high enough to prevent the
animals leaping over. Their bases are 1%— ft. above
the road surface, which means that when the lor—
ries are backed up for loading or unloading'the
angle of the loading ramp on the vehicle is very
much reduced, and consequently the sheep can
walkin or out without having to exert themselves
as is" usually the case when the tail—board of a
lorry is down to ground level.

 

 




 

L\ ._ __

December 1958

THE ANIMAL WORLD ‘ 135

THE RSP'CA AT WORK

 

OCTOBER 1958
RSPCA INSPECTORS

1,835 Complaints of cruelty investigated.
1 Offender imprisoned.
50 Offenders ﬁned.
32 Persons guilty of minor acts of cruelty cautioned in writing.
602 Registered cautions were administered by Inspectors.

CLASSIFICATION OF CONVICTIONS

HORSES—Neglecting 2
CATTLE—Neglecting, conveying in an unﬁt state, etc. 3
SHEEP—Neglecting 2
PIGS—Neglecting, beating . 7
DOGS—Neglecting, killing in improper manner, throwing
downstairs, maliciously killing, etc. 15
CATS—Beating and placing in chaff—cutting machine,
swinging by tail, injuring, etc. 5
BOWLS—Neglecting, conveying in improper manner, etc. 6
DUCKS—Shooting and wounding . . . 2
OFFENCES UNDER THE PROTECTION OF BIRDS ACT, 1954.
Being in possession of recently taken birds . .. 3
Selling other than close—ringed specimens bred
in captivity 3
VARIOUS OFFENCES:
Infringements of the Transit of Animals (A)
Order, 193 I 2
Permitting in an offence . . . . . . . . . * 1
TOTAL NUMBER OF CONVICTIONS 51

During OCTOBER 1958, Magistrates, at the request of the
RSPCA, disqualiﬁed FIVE persons from owning a dog or holding
a dog licence. Disqualiﬁcations were as follows:

ONE for 2 years; THREE for 5 years; ONE for 10 years.

Total number of COMPLAINTS from January Ist 19,221
Total number of CONVICTIONS from January Ist 634
Total number of CAUTIONS from January Ist 6,567

During OCTOBER 1958, ONE person was disqualiﬁed for
5 years from keeping any animal.

HEADQUARTERS CLINICS

No. of animals handled:
Cats 4,363 Dogs 4,158 Misc., 1,198 Total 9,719
No. of animals given emergency ﬁrst aid: 2,887

PUTNEY CONVALESCENT WARD

No. of animals handled:
Dogs 85 Cats 23 Misc., 3 Total 111

NIGHT STAFF
No. of calls received: 1,039

, N o. of animals given emergency ﬁrst aid: 11

No. of animals treated by veterinary surgeon: 148

No. of animals rescued: 6

N o. of inspection complaints: 10

Miles covered by ambulance in respect of urgent calls: 2,325

NORTH WALES UNIT
First aid cases: 7
Cats 48 Dogs 80 Misc., 12 Total 140
No. of animals handled by Unit:
Cats 278 Dogs 149 Misc., 28 Total 455
No. of miles covered by Unit: 2,405

DEVON 8L CORNWALL UNIT
First aid cases:
Cats 46 Dogs 74 Misc., 9 Total 129
No. of animals handled by Unit:
Cats 135 Dogs 101 Misc., 9 Total 245
No. of miles covered by Unit: 1,549

SOUTH WALES MOBILE UNIT

First aid cases:

Cats 79 Dogs 251 Misc., 39 Total 369
No. of animals handled by Unit:

Cats 298 Dogs 289 Misc., 39 Total 626

No. of miles covered by Unit: 1,148

AWARDS

CURRENT AWARDS UNDER REVIEW

EDUCATION

TALKS TO SCHOOLS 163
FILMS
RSPCA FILMS BORROWED 110
SHOWINGS 165
RECORDS FOR 1957
INSPECTION

COMPLAINTS 24,942
CONVICTIONS 852
CAUTIONS 8,596

HEADQUARTERS CLINICS
No. of animals handled: 135,570
NIGHT STAFF
No. of calls: 15,671

 




 

 

ANIMAL“

EWORL u

 

THE OFFICIAL MAGAZINE OF THE RSPCA

 

 

Vol LIII No 12 New Series

DECEMBER I 958

PRICE FOURPENCE

6s. per annum. Post Paid

 

 

 

WW

 

gr»?

El ("berm Ghristmas to all ®ur 1Reabers -

WWW)”

 

 

wwmswmmwwwwswvwmew '

 

sf,»

 

WWWWS

«E

ﬁkweme

WHIP, FORK AND TABOURET

Wild Animals and Their Secrets, by Jim Frey.
Published by Frederick Muller Ltd. Price 215.
Pp. 230. Illustrated; numerous photographs.

Headed ‘The Training of Wild Animals’, the
last chapter of this book promised to reveal
secrets that humane workers have always been
eager to learn. Instead, we are given such bathos
as (p. 216): ‘The main ace in our hand is that we
have previously had an opportunity of imposing
our aura on our animals, for animals are mar;
vellously receptive to human inﬂuences. I owe it
to the yoga concentration of will, which is the
exact equivalent of prayer, that I am able to sum—
mon up the maximum of willapower without
losing a single part.’

The writer (whose book is translated from the
French) lists three different types of trainer. In
the third category he puts ‘the real trainers’ and
includes the name of Alfred Court. Readers of
ANIMAL WORLD will recall the training methods
of this ‘real trainer’, who gave so much away in
a book reviewed in these pages some years ago.

Artfully as the author avoids precise language
in his chapter on training, he says that, apart from
instinct, the trainer has nothing for his defence
except a whip and a fork and sometimes a
tabouret (this is a stool, often made of metal).

He had evidently forgotten writing less cauti'
ously on page 24: ‘all I had was my whip, but
with my good arm, and galvanized into the utmost
pitch of activity by the instinct of selfvpreservav
tion, I rained heavy blows on Sandra’s muzzle.
They were swift and ruthless, and they succeeded
in breaking up her attacks. Panting loudly and
with her ﬂanks heaving rapidly, she gave way at
last and slunk off.’

TOUCHING OR CRUEL
We are told, in the opening sentence of the book,

that life in close contact with animals is a constant
series of unexpected situations, gay or thrilling,
touching or cruel.

In spite of all his caution (the author has evi—
dently learnt from the experience of other
writers), we have plenty of conﬁrmation that the
RSPCA acts wisely in opposing the training and
exhibition of wild animals for entertainment pun
poses. ‘Lions are distressed by very high teme
peratures, and during the heat of the day they
usually remain stretched out in the shade of high
grass or on the forest verge; in captivity their
mortality is higher in summer than in winter’
(p. 15).

A few disclosures are made about trapping
methods: ‘By a miracle the kid which had been
used as a bait (for the catching of a leopard) had
escaped injury’ (p. 34). Other ‘bait’ had presume
ably not enjoyed the protection of miracles. And
what of the terror to which the kid was exposed?

THE IRON COLLAR

Virtuously, the author writes (p. 58): ‘Very often
the first acquaintance of the wild beast with
man’s civilization is the iron collar, and I have
known wretched little monkeys to be transported
for long distances with their necks held fast in
such instruments. When they arrive, there are
always one or two corpses rolling around in the
case, stiff, cold and with their little claws despera
ately clenched.’ -

‘Fortunately’, he adds, ‘not all animal dealers
are so callous.’ A pity he had not continued: as
some are so callous, letus abolish the training
and exhibition of wild animals and thus avoid
the risk of their falling into the hands of men
capable of treating them so abominably!

EDITOR

 




 

 

,134 ' THE ANIMAL WORLD

CHRISTMAS THCUGHTS

 

 

Photo] - [Gour esymily Herald

‘Unlock the door!’ the stray seems to plead. ‘Take me home
for Christmas!’

At Christmas time our thoughts should be for
the welfare of animals.

When invited to name presents, there is a
temptation for even kindhearted people to re—
member the attractive animals they have seen on
television and to ask for such creatures as bush
babies, whose endearing ways have won their
hearts.

The RSPCA has protested to the television
authorities about this popularization of an ani—
mal totally unsuited to be kept as a pet in this
country and a message, received by the Chief
Secretary, says that the authorities are in agree—
ment that these animals, who are nocturnal and
have special needs, should not be kept as pets.

Even a familiar animal such as a puppy or
kitten should never be given as a present except
to. someone who really wants to own one of these
animals and will be aWare of the responsibility
that ownership of any living creature involves.
Animals are not toys.

Bush babies have been instanced as unsuitable
as gifts, but the RSPCA goes further and says no
wild animal or bird should be given. I

HQME

Where, after proper thought, a kitten or puppy
is. given (the adoption of an unwanted one is a
kind gesture) arrangements should previously
have been made for the new owner to have an
RSPCA pamphlet (one will be sent free to anyone
applying with a stamped addressed envelope to
the London Headquarters). A suitable basket or

December 1958

 

the proper quarters fOr any particular pet should
be provided in advance.

CHRISTMAS FARE

The least possible change of routine will make
animals happy at Christmas time. Be discreet in
allowing animals to share the Christmas fare.
Fish bones, sharp chicken and turkey bones—as
well as all bones likely to splinter—should not be
given to them. They may be caught in the throat.
Sick animals should be taken to a veterinary sur—
geon. Of course, there are RSPCA clinics for the
animals of needy folk.

WILD BIRDS

Christmas leavings provide a feast if spread on
the bird table. The birds need fresh water as
much in winter as in summer. Keep it free from
ice, but do not add chemicals for this purpose, as
they may do harm.

Set the table in a clearing, so that the birds
may be aware of Tibby’s inquisitive approach.

‘GIVE US THIS DAY . . .’

I scarce have time to draw my curtains wide,

When, ﬂuttering from every side,

They come, my feathered throng

(Too hungry now for song).

A robin, with his bright inquisitive head,

Hopping and peering till the feast is spread;

Some starling; and a solemn, ﬂuffed—up thrush;

Chaﬂinch and bullﬁnch; and a sudden rush

Of sparrows; a blue and yellow streak,

That bis 1 tit; a blackbirdwith a startling orange
ea .

And many, many more a
Gather about my door . . .

Do they, I wonder, think I am some god, ,»
That, when the frozen sod

Cries ‘Famine!’ (and mayhap for them the end

Of song, and ﬂight, and nesting), will befriend?

I know not, but I know I cannot fail

Their trust. While winter’s blasts prevail

Their want I will supply.

And shall I fear that I,
Who scatter thus their daily bread,
Shall not myself be fed?

(From Pedlar’s Pack, a magazine edited and .
compiled by Miss Nancy Price.)




 

 

 

 

 

136 THE ANIMAL WORLD

December 1958

 

 

Reprinted from the ‘Quarterly Review’ by kin
permission of the Editor. _

CRUELTY TO ANIMALS
By DR R. F. RATTRAY
II

The next landmark is Shakespeare. It has not
been recognized adequately that he was centuries
ahead of his time—in some things ahead of our
time—in his views on animals. In Venus and
‘ Adonis he sympathizes with the hunted hare:

And now his grief may be compared well
To one sore sick that hears the passingabell.
Then shalt thou see the dewvbedraggled wretch
Turn and return, indenting with the way:
Each envious brier his weary legs doth scratch,
Each shadow makes him stop, each murmur stay:
For misery is trodden on by'many,
And, being low, never relieved by any.

In Lucrece he wrote of

. . . the poor, frightened deer, that stands at gaze
Wildly determining which way to fly.

A passage in Henry VI we will quote later for a
special purpose. In Love’s Labour’s Lost ladies have
to go to hunt deer and the princess says:

Where is the bush

That we must stand and play the murderer in?
Now mercy goes to kill

And shooting well is then accounted ill.

Glory grows guilty of detested crimes

When, for fame’s sake, for praise, an outward

part,
As I for praise alone now seek to spill
The poor deer’s blood that my heart means no ill.

In Avaou Like It the Duke says of deer:

And yet it irks me the poor dappled fools,
Being native burghers of this desert city,

Should in their own conﬁnes, with forke‘d heads,
Have their round haunches gored.

The First Lord says to the Duke that Jaques

swears you do more usurp
Than doth your brother who hath banished you.

He speaks of
a poor sequestered stag

That from the hunter’s aim had ta’en a hurt,
Did come to languish; and indeed, my lord,
The wretched animal heaved forth such groans
That their discharge did stretch his leathern coat
Almost to bursting, and the big round tears
Coursed one another down his innocent nose
In piteous chase.

Ja‘ques, says the First Lord, swears
- that we
Are mere usurpers, tyrants and what’s worse,
To fright the animals and kill them up.

In Cymbeline the Queen says:

_ I will try the forces
Of these thy compounds on such creatures as
We count not worth the hanging, but none human.

To which the doctor replies:

. Your highness
Shall from this practice but make hard your heart.

Dr Johnson commented on this passage:

The thought would probably have been more
ampliﬁedhad our author lived to be shocked with
such experiments as have been published in later
times by a race of men that have practised tortures
without pity and related them without shame, and
are yet suffered to erect their heads among human
beings. '

Hogarth exposed cruelty to animals in cartoons.
Blake exploded:

A robin redbreast in a cage
Sets all heaven in a rage.

It was not until 1790 that the ﬁrst veterinary
college was founded—in England. In 1801 Vidler,
a Unitarian minister, published the ﬁrst article
attacking hunting. In 1802 Sir William Pulteney,
supported by Wilberforce and Sheridan, intro—
duced a bill to prohibit bull— and bearvbaiting.
(William Windham said it was a conspiracy by
Jacobins and Methodists to make people grave
and serious. Canning argued that bullvbaiting in—
duced a ‘nobleness of sentiment and elevation of
mind’.) In 1809 in Liverpool was started a society
for preventing ‘wanton cruelty’ to animals (later
it petered out).

When Sydney Smith was asked to join in the
cause for preventing cruelty to animals, he re;
fused on the ground that it would be hypocritical
to oppose certain forms of cruelty when others
enjoyed the support of convention. He instanced
among the latter running an iron hook into the
intestines of an animal, presenting this ﬁrst aniv
mal to another as its food, pulling this second
animal up and suspending him by.the barb in his
stomach; riding a horse until he drops in order
to see an innocent animal torn to pieces by dogs;
keeping an animal upright for many weeks to pro—
duce hardness in its ﬂesh (brawn); making deep
incisions into the ﬂesh of an animal while living,
in order to make the muscles more ﬁrm (crimpv
ing cod); immersing an animal while alive in
boiling water (lobsters).1

In 1822 the Irishman, Richard Martin, squ
ceeded in getting passed by the British Parliament

1 When the late Peter Freeman raised this last matter in the
House of Commons a year or two ago, it was received
With hilarious laughter.

Continued at foot of page opposite.

- 'M*H.—D*M -




 

 

 

138 THE ANIMAL WORLD

December 1958

 

 

These stories made newspaper headlines

RSPCA acts against

DISSECTION 0F KITTENS

Newspaper reports recently drew attention to
the practice at East Grinstead County Grammar
School, where kittens were being destroyed and
used for biology lessons.

The RSPCA immediately investigated these re
ports and found there was no speciﬁc evidence to
establish that unnecessary suffering was caused to
any particular kittens, the carcases of which were
subsequently used for instructional purposes. It
would appear that the instruction was given to a
few pupils only, aged 17—19 years, in the sixth
form of the School, who were receiving advanced
biological instruction. ‘

._ With regard to the ethical aspect of the matter,
it is the considered View of the Society that, if in
the opinion of the Education authorities the use
of diagrams, models and ﬁlms is not sufﬁcient,
and that practical postmortem instruction in diSa
section is requisite, then in such event no ani~
mals should be used which have a close domestic
association with man, the more so when they
come within the category of household pets.

The fact that the RSPCA had called for an
investigation received the widest possible notice
in the Press. As a result in part of this announce’
ment the local Education authorities advised the
school to discontinue the practice of having kittens
brought by pupils for destruction and ultimate
dissection. The school accepted the advice.

CARAVAN ANIMALS
On Friday, October 24, on ITV, RSPCA In;

spectors Jenkins and\ Grinnall were shown per—
forming an errand of mercy at the Modern
Trailer Homes, Hythe Farm, Egham.

They were collecting two dogs and three cats
from residents who were having to evacuate this
site under compulsory orders.

 

A total of 15 dogs, 40 cats and about 100
budgerigars and goldﬁsh lived with the residents
in the 69 caravans on the site about a week prior
to the television programme. The RSPCA had
been busy for some time encouraging the resi—
dents to make arrangements for their pets, and
this had been done to good effect. The budgeria
gars and goldﬁsh were housed on a neighbouring
site, and the residents themselves had made
provision for all but the ﬁve animals collected by
the Society.

The purpose of the Society’s intervention was
to ensure that the people did not wait until the
last minute before doing something, and thanks
to this timely intervention no animals were
turned adrift, which might otherwise have
happened.

The two dogs removed went to the RSPCA
Dogs’ Home at Claverton Down, Bath, and the
three cats to the RSPCA Hanwell Clinic. They
were staying there only until such time as their
owners found accommodation. All the owners
were very anxious that they should be parted for
as brief a time as possible from their animals.

 

DOGS ON ROADS: SLOUGH BAN

With the introduction on October 1 last of an
order banning dogs, except on leads, from every
road in Slough, the RSPCA urged the public to
do everything possible to respect the law: names
and addresses should be on dogs’ collars; fences
should be sound and gates locked so as to prev
vent the likelihood of escape by dogs; the run—
ning chain should be adopted by anyone wishing
to keep an animal under control in a garden;
preferably dogs should be kept indoors between
exercise walks on the lead; dog owners should
not rush to have animals destroyed but should
seek the help of the RSPCA in ﬁnding new homes
if they wish to dispose of them.

 

ITALY

Part of the equipment carried by the Messina
Mobile Dispensary, which has been provided by
the Anglo’Italian SPCA for work in Italy, is an
RSPCA lethal chamber. The lethal chamber was
supplied by RSPCA Headquarters, which has
sent a few of these chambers for use in Italy.

The Mobile Dispensary had its ofﬁcial send!
off in August.

HORSES TO THE CONTINENT

A report received from the Ministry of Agriculv

 

ture, Fisheries and Food, for the quarter ended

‘June 30, 1958, shows that 109 horses and ponies

were shipped to the Continent of Europe after
examination at various ports.

From London 17 went to Belgium; from
Folkestone 76 were exported—69 to France,
three to Switzerland, and four to Italy; from
Harwich 11 went to Belgium, two to Denmark,
and one to Holland; from Hull one went to
Norway and another to Sweden.

In addition 83 horses and 15 ponies were ex
ported to Europe after being exempted from
veterinary examination.

~’*—<’I§;-

a:




 

 

 

140 THE ANIMAL WORLD

December 1958

 

 

ANIMAL TRANSPORT AND MARKETS

Pigs Blue with Cold

Inspector Hanson reports:

‘I consider that pigs should be provided with
covered pens and also straw litter since this seems
to discourage pigs from ﬁghting amongst theme
selves. It is noticeable that store pigs are in most
markets given this facility, yet the fat pig is as—
sumed to be a creature immune from the hazards
of extremely hot or cold weather. It would be
well to realize that most fat pigs are housed in
good covered accommodation before being pre
sented at a market, thus they must invariably
suffer when exposed to the elements.

During the summer, if hot, it is quite com—
mon to observe pigs badly sunburnt through
exposure; I usually insist that they be hosed

own.

During the wintry months they appear to
turn blue through the effects of the cold.

For some considerable time I have endeavoured
to have all pig pens covered. At present there are
20 covered pens out of 47, in my area. The Cor—
poration has granted money for the covering of
additional pens. I

I am of the opinion that great'effort should be
made to introduce the covering of all pig pens at

cattle markets as a legislative measure. Most
butchers and farmers would strongly support
such a law.’

Overvcrowding caused calf ’s suffocation
RSPCA Case No. B3593

‘A heaving mass of young calves’ was what a
police witness said he saw when he looked into a
lorry, which was carrying 55 of these animals.
He was giving evidence at Neath when the
RSPCA prosecuted the lorry driver for causing
unnecessary suffering to calves by over~crowding.
A ﬁne of £10 was imposed with £11 Is. 6d. costs.

The smaller calves, the police said, were being
trampled on by the bigger ones. The gate dividing
the lorry into two compartments had been
pushed over and was lying across four calves.
Others were then walking over the gate. He
immediately had the gate removed. He sent for
Chief Inspector Nash, who arrived promptly and
had the lorry driven to the nearest abattoir, so
that the animals could have attention.

The truck measured 7 ft. wide by 15 ft. long.

Thirty—two calves were re—loaded after examine
ation and general attention. Of the 23 left, one

Continued at foot of page opposite.

 

 

""" ~ ., .' “vi

ulary

    

TRANSPORTED TO DEATH
(Picture, left)
RSPCA Senior Inspector Pickett reported that when he
shone his torch into the back of a three-ton cattle lorry he
saw a tangled mass of five dead Ayrshire cows.

On investigation the Inspector found there had been
ﬁfteen cows in the lorry transported approximately 424
miles. The fifteen cows were crammed into a floor area 'of
MS square feet.

The dead cattle had badly bruised eyes, broken legs,
severe bruising and one had a dislocated pelvis. The sur-
viving cattle suffered from bruising and severe shock, but
have been nursed back to health.

A lorry driver was brought before Tiverton Magistrates
Court by the RSPCA for causing the animals unnecessary
suffering by conveying them in an improper manner. He
was fined £25 and ordered to pay £8 8s. costs (B.3l66).

 

 




 

142 THE ANIMAL WORLD

December 1958

 

 

TRAPPED 006

The highest award in the most recent list of
RSPCA awards for bravery in the rescue of ani~
mals Was that of a silver medal to Mr Ken
Savage, who already holds the RSPCA bronze
medal and bar for previous acts of bravery.

The action earning him the award was one in
which he showed not only bravery but also
tenacity in the face of difﬁculty.

It was a Sunday when Chinnock, a black and
white Sheepdog, was ﬁrst missed by his owner.
On Monday evening the dog’s cries were heard
from a ﬁssure at Gelli Dhu, Mountain Ash,
Glamorgan.

Early Start

Inspector Hamilton heard of the dog’s plight from
the police at dusk, and he advised that food
should be dropped to it, as he had a journey of
over an hour to the spot, which he would not
have reached before dark. In the meantime he
made arrangements for an early start with rescue
work.

The crevice where Chinnock had been located
is at the top of a mountain; it is only 2 ft. wide
and drops sheer for about 20 ft., then continues
for another 10 ft., curving under the original
drop. Loose rocks make this last part treacherous,
and Mr Savage refused the protection of a steel
helmet, as the brim, he feared, would cause
rocks to fall on him. ‘

After a day during which rescuers were baffled
by the problem of reaching Chinnock, Mr
Savage was lowered into the ﬁssure on Tuesday
morning. By the light of a miner’s lamp he could
see that the dog was wedged in the rocks below
-—too far away to be reached.

Prevent Suffering

Hauled to the top of the crevice, Mr Savage had
the sad task of discussing with Inspector Hamil;
ton methods of giving the dog—whose plight
seemed hopeless—a humane end. Reluctant, like
the Inspector, to adopt this course, Mr Savage
volunteered to make another descent into the
crevice, to return very soon with the exciting
news that the dog had moved, and there was a
remote chance of a rescue.

Additional ropes and a dog grasper were ob

tained, and Mr Savage made the hazardous de— ’

scent once again. With patience and skill he was
able to manipulate the grasper round the dog’s
neck and draw it gently towards him. He then
secured the dog by the body and saw it drawn to
safety before signalling for the helpers to haul
him up.

The dog was uninjured.

MARE IN THE MIRE

(Photos, courtesy, Brehaut, Eastleigh.)

 

The barking of a dog drew the attention of people to the
serious plight of Big Bess, a l2-year-old black hunter mare.
She was ﬁghting for her life in an attempt to get herself out
of a bog.

 

RSPCA Inspector Hallam arrived quickly on the scene and
found Big Bess almost submerged—only her head and back
visible. Immediately the Inspector and helpers started
rescue work, which took over two hours to complete.

After digging mud away, the rescuers towed Big Bess to
safety.

 

After the rescue the mare is seen being fed lumps of sugar
by her owner’s daughter.

 




 

 

 

 

144 THE ANIMAL WORLD December1958
StaHordshire—North Branch (Colliery Collec- £ 5. d £ 5. d
tions), Mrs A. Berry, branch hon sec 40 O O Horden and Peterlee 6O 9 1
Skelton, Mrs G. A. Roberts, aux hon sec 6 17 5 Thornley, Wheatley H111, ShOttOH 66 8 6
Braunton, Mrs Phillips, aux hon sec... 25 19 9 Trimdon Grange, Trimdon Station and
West Bromwich, Mrs F. Haywood, branch Deaf Hill 17 11 3
hon sec .. 210 12 4. Wingate and Hutton Henry 13 11 9
Leominster, Mrs G. Morgan 45 18 7 West Hartlepool, house— to—house 106 O 7
Chesterﬁeld, Mrs V. C. Grundy, branch ﬂ
hon sec i 150 O 0 £346 12 1
Dronﬁeld, Miss J. W. Helliwell, aux hon sec 27 11 0 “
Wakeﬁeld, Mrs Sunderland, branchdhon sec 122 1151 g
Droitwich Spa, Miss M. M. Haywar
Richmond (Yorks), Mrs Bunting, aux hon , CARDIGANSHIRE BRANCH FLAG DAYS
Glieuccester City. MrsM VHNasthranch 31 2’ 0 Results reported by Mrs W. J. LeWis, branch co hon sec:
’ O ' ’ £ 5. d.
hon sec 336 9 11 Bronant, Miss E. Howells, aux hon sec 2 10 O
Llanarth, Mrs M. E. Jones, aux hon sec 1 16 5
DORSET FLAG DAYS—1958 Cardigan, Mrs K. Key, aux hon sec 3 5 0
£ 3. d. AberayronMMrséijJ. Evans, aux hon sec 1g 2 1
Amounts collected b participating Branches: regaron, 1ss ' ones, aux non sec ' 12 3
Poole Auxiliary (Bollirnemouth Branch) 283 12 2 Llandewr Breﬁ, Mr B’ James, aux hon sec 5 2 3
Borth, Mrs C. Jones, aux hon sec 8 8 3
£ s. d. New Quay, Mrs A. D. Edwards, aux hon sec 24 O 3
South Dorset Branch . ' Pontrhydyfendigaid, Mrs W. Hughes, au
Abbotsbury 3 17 2 hon sec 2 15 8
Beaminster 22 19 9 Llandyssul, Mrs Ray Evans, aux hon sec 14 19 3
Bere Regis 10 O O Lampeter, Mr and Mrs W. Thomas, aux co
Bridport 41 2 3 hon secs 8 17 O
Corfe Castle 10 O O Aberystwyth, Mrs W. J. Lewis and Miss
EDorcllilester 2? g. g. M. E. Bowen, branch co hon secs 138 O O
vers ot ——__
Owermoigne 4 9 6 £231 8 5
Piddlehinton 1 9 2
Portesham 3 10 5
Portland 11 5 4
Puddletown 8 9 6 FORTHCOMING FLAG DAY
Sandford 1 17 O N . d . .
Swanage 28 16 6 ( otlﬁe up to time of gomg to press on October 31)
Wareham 12 9 O Shlldon, Co Durham Thursday, December 25
Winfrith 6 12 0 An appeal is made to any readers who are able to assist
Wool ' 3 8 9 this collection to communicate with the local Hon Secre—
202 13 9 tary, whose name and address will gladly be supplied by
. RSPCA Headquarters.
North Dorset Branch
Elaﬁgfﬁﬁnen 3; 1% ; BATTLE OF BRITAIN WEEK 1959
Stirminster Newton 59 2 6 Battle of Britain Week in 1959 is to be held from Septem—
Wimborne 36 16 2 .ber 14—19 inclusive, during which period the RAF
132 19 6 Alssocilaltion Evin1 bedconccllucitg/ng house—to—house colSlections
t roug out ng an an aes. On Satur ay, eptem—
Weymouth Borough (Dorset SOUth Branch) 218 9 1 ber 19, 1959, National Wings Day Street Collections will
Total 837 14 6 be organized
It is therefore suggested that RSPCA branch ofﬁcials

HAMPSHIRE—NEW FOREST AND
DISTRICT BRANCH

Flag Day results reported by Mr W. T. Boots, branch
hon sec:

’ £ 5. d.-
Lymington Borough 189 13 1
New Forest Rural District 100 19 10%

Branch total 290 12 11%

DURHAM—HARTLEPOOLS AND
DISTRICT BRANCH

£ 5. d.
Blackhall Colliery 21 8 O
Easington Colliery 20 12 8
Hartlepool 4O 10 3

should, if possible, avoid the dates quoted when applying
for 1959 Flag Day Permits. If overlapping does appear to
be inevitable, it is suggested that the General Secretary
of the RAF Association, 83 Portland Place, London, W1,
should be contacted in the hope of some amicable
arrangement being made.

 

‘Welcome’ on the door step from Chippie,
belonging to Mrs Holloway.

 




 

 

 

@MEWMS

Manufacturers of

UNIFORM CLOTHING

HOBSON & SONS CAPS HELMETS LEATHER
(LONDON) LTD

BELTS POUCHES etc. etc.

Gold and Silver Laces
Embroideries of every
Allinquiries to description for ALL

154-164 TOOLEY STREET UNIFORMED SERVICES

LONDON BRIDGE S.E.1 PATTERNS OF CLOTH
and ESTIlVIATES

Telephone: HOP 2476 (3 lineS) will be forwarded free of charge
Telegrams: HOBSON, SEDIST, LONDON

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

R. SOP. 00A:

 

 

FORM OF BEQUEST FOR NATIONAL WORK

To those benevolent individuals who may wish to become benefactors by Will to this
Society, the following form is respectfully suggested:—

‘I bequeath to ROYAL SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS, for the
general purposes of that Society, the sum of £ ........................................................................... , free of all duties
payable at my death and the receipt of the Treasurer for the time being of the said Society shall
be a sufﬁcient discharge for such legacy.’ (If it should be desired that the legacy should—be expended

on some particular phase of the Society’s work, a direction to this eﬁect may be added to the form

of bequest.)

 

CAUTION

By the Act of 7 William IV and IVictoria, cap. 26, all Wills or Codicils must be in Writing signed by the

Testator, and attested by two witnesses in the presence of the Testator and of each other.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Printed by Shenval Press, Simson Shand Ltd, London, Hertford and Harlow and
published by John Hall for the RSPCA at 105 Jermyn Street, London, SW1

 




