T1115 AMERICAN SOCIETY

PREVEN’I‘ION OFCRUELTYTO ANIMALS.

[\(‘1)lx’l’()R;\'l‘IC‘I) BY THE STATE OF NEW YORK,
APRIL 10, 1866.

-‘—‘O>—*

il‘\\‘liN'l‘Y-FIF'I‘H ANNUAL REPORT.

DEC. ICM HE R 318T, 1890.

111:.11113 [*.-\R’1‘ERS OF THE SOCIETY :
\« »_ IOO 13.191’l‘\VI-zx'ry-mccoxﬁ) STREET, CORNER OF FOURTH AVE._

N E \V YORK.
1891.

 




 

 

 




1 1891.

OFFICERS OF THE SOCIETY.

President.
JOH N P. HAIN ES.

V tee—Presidents.

 

 

ELBRIDGE T. GERRY, W. C. SCHERMERHORN, ,
BENJAMIN D. HICKS, ALFRED WAGSTAFF, ,
E. S. JAFFRAY, MORRIS K. JESUP, 3
REV. MORGAN DIX, JOHN CLAFLIN,
FREDERIC GALLATIN, PARKE GODWIN.

Exec‘ 1/ ﬁve C 0/11 7/1 z'ttee.

ELBRIDGE T. GERRY, GEORGE G. HAVEN, §
BENJAMIN D. HICKS, HORACE RUSSELL, '

CHARLES LANIER, EDWARD A. HAMMOND,

PARKE GODWIN, GEORGE G. DEWITT, Jr.

ANSON PHELPS STOKES, JAMES GRANT WILSON,

JOSEPH H. CHOATE. FREDERIC R. COUDERT,

ARTHUR B. CLAFLIN, WILLIAM WALDORF ASTOR, .

FREDERICK W. VANDERBII.T.

Treasurer.
CHARLES LANIER.

Counsel.
HORACE RUSSELL.

Secretary.
GEORGE G. DEWITT, Jr.

. Assistant Treasurer.
JOSEPH W. EDWARDS.

 

Superintendent.
CHARLES H. HANKINSON.

Veterinary Surgeon.
SAMUEL K. JOHNSON.

BROOKLYN OFFICE.
415 Fulton Street, Brooklyn.

 

inspector:
F. O. CLARK.

V eterz'n'ezry Surgeons.
L. MCLEAN, R. A. MCLEAN.

 

 




 

 

 

 




 

ADDRESS OF THE PRESIDENT.

 

Ladies and Gentlemen .-

It affords me pleasure in presenting this, my Annual Report,
to remind you that it marks the ﬁrst quarter of a century since
this Society was incorporated. We have thus to congratulate our-
selves upon having rounded a full period in the civilizing history
of our country. It is needless for me to recount to you the
progress of this Organization, or the success it has attained. I
will, therefore, not burden this report with a prolonged allusion
to the past, but will brieﬂy invite your attention to some of the
more important features of the work which has been accomplished
during the year.

You will. no doubt, remember the vigorous crusade of the So-
ciety against the so-called sport of rabbit-baiting on Long
Island, and the arrest and prosecution of the principals. Al-
though we did not meet with the complete success hoped for, we
had the satisfaction of knowing that our efforts resulted as a posi-
tive and salutary preventiVe. So decidedly was this the case,
the advocates of the cruel pastime were driven to an appeal to the
Legislature of 1890 for legal authority to resist the Society. To
that end, early in the session a bill was introduced in the Assem-
bly by a member representing Queen’s County, which was re-
ferred to the Committee on General Laws. On being informed
of the attempt to abridge the powers of the Society, I immediately
telegraphed to the chairman of the committee, requesting to be
notiﬁed when the subject came up for discussion, as I desired to
be heard before the Bill was reported. While having every con~
.ﬁdence in the humanity of the State’s law-makers, I still deemed
it my duty to put forth every effort to bring about the defeat of
that iniquitous measure, and, having that purpose in View, ad-
dressed to each member of the Legislature a memorial, of which
the following is a copy :

 




  

 

 

6

“THE AMERICAN SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION
OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
HEADQUARTERS, 100 EAST 22D STREET,

NEW YORK, f7mzzza7j/31, I890.

 

‘How.
“Your attention is earnestly invited to Assembly Bill :
No. 213,
AN ACT

In relation to the Treatment of Animals.

The People of the State of New York, represented in Senate and Assembly,
do enact as follows :

SECTION I. None of the provisions of law heretofore enacted for; the pre—
vention of cruelty to animals, within this State, shall be construed to prohibit
or interfere with the coursing Of hares with greyhounds, by members of Sports-
men’s Clubs or incorporated Societies.

SECTION 2. This Act shall take effect immediately.

“This Bill is intended to legalize a cruel and demoralizing
pastime under the name of ‘ coursing,’ which is of foreign inno-
vation, and without a single element of manly sport.

“ It is a popular axiom that the civilization of a people is indi--
cated by their treatment of the inferior animals.

“Nearly a quarter Of a century ago, the good people of this.
State, represented in Senate and Assembly, enacted the ﬁrst laws.
on this continent for the protection of God’s inferior creation
from abuse and cruelty. It also called into being a Society to
enforce the humane enactments, the wisdom and policy of which
have been endorsed by almost every State and Territory of our
beloved Republic. Successive Legislatures have from time to.
time amended and strengthened those statutes, thus recognizing
man’s Obligation to that race of beings which are so necessary
for human existence.

“I will not offend your intelligent observation by quoting
statistics to show how much our country’s moral civilization has.
been beneﬁted by the enactment of those humane laws, but
respectfully submit that the time is past when so-called sports—-
men’s clubs can demand and expect to receive special legislation
giving them the right to retard the spread of that civilizing
inﬂuence which carries with it the moral well-being of the people.~

 

 

 

 




 

 

7

“ng such an iniquitous measure as proposed by Assembly Bill
213 becomes a law, women and children will be able to witness
scenes of cruelty no less disgusting and demoralizing than bull-
baiting and dog-ﬁghting, carried on within the public View.

“ In the name of our moral civilization and of the Society I
have the honor to represent, I pray you will oppose the Bill
referred to.”

I now have the pleasure to report that the committee, after
hearing the argument of counsel in support of the Bill, reported
it adversely the next day, and it is, in the language of a prominent
member of the Legislature, “ as dead as the sensibilities of those
who promote such brutalities.”

I also take pleasure in recording the ﬁrst prosecutions and con-
Victions, I believe, ever obtained in this country, for docking
horses’ tails. The offenders were sentenced to ﬁne and-im-
prisonment.

You will notice in the report of the Superintendent that there
is a very large increase in the number of prosecutions ; likewise
of animals suspended from labor ; and the complaints investigated
have far exceeded those of any year since the organization of this
Society. By referring to the report of the Treasurer you will ﬁnd
a marked increase in the amount of ﬁnes, membership dues, and
donations, which I consider another cause for congratulation.
The increase in the expenses of the Society for the year, while
not as large as those of the previous year, has been due to the
necessary reorganization of several of the departments of the
work, in which radical changes have been made, in order to
correct abuses already existing, and to prevent trouble in the
future. 7

Owing to the vigilance of the ofﬁcers of this Society on the
canal towpaths, a State ofﬁcial has made the encouraging report
that the tow-horses and mules now employed are in better
condition than ever before.

Heretofore, residents of counties other than New York and
Kings, after being appointed by the Executive Committee, were
empowered to organize Auxiliary Societies, to aid the Parent

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

M
m
M
M

morwmwa ,

,gcﬁma égmﬁm >225

..,..1...S)41),51,l/I4}$( 7154.1.

 

 

zm<< >chr>20m mow O>mm<_zo mz_>_._. >z_z_>rm.

 








 

REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE
COMMITTEE.

The Executive Committee while offering their sincere con—

gratulations to the members of the Society upon the spread of

the work during the past year, and the encouragement and sym-
pathy extended to it by those not ofﬁcially connected. with its
affairs, regrets being called upon to report the decease of several
devoted ofﬁcers and members. Among the most conspicuous is
that of Vice-President James M. Brown, who, it will be remem-
bered, assumed at great personal sacriﬁce the onerous and
responsible duties of President of your Society at a critical
period of its history. Vice-President Brown passed away from
the sphere of his usefulness on the 19th day of July, 1890, after a
brief illness.

The deceased has been ofﬁcially associated with the Society for
over fourteen years, and during that term was a faithful attend-
ant at the meetings of the Board of Managers, of which he was an
honored member.

The names of other of our co-workers, who have died during
the past year, will be found inscribed on the obituary record of
this report.

To the end'that auxiliary organizations in this State, which
heretofore were appointed by the Parent Society to enforce the
humane laws, may act independently, likewise be otherwise bene-
ﬁted, a copy of the following communication, which explains
itself, was sent to each Branch, by President Haines :

“ To 2716 President of 2726
Bram/z of 2726 A. S. P. C. A.

“ DEAR SIR : Permit me to inform you that owing
.to complications arising from imperfect organization

9

 




i,” - , ",2 7.’ z: '6‘." __,
__. ..._.< V ,,

IO

of Branch or Auxiliary Societies of this, the Parent
Society, the following resolution was adopted at a
meeting of the Executive Committee of the latter,
Oct. 16, 1890.

“Rem/wed, That hereafter no appointments of
Auxiliary or Branch Societies, will be made by this
Committee, and that all appointments previously made
will be revoked on Dec. 31, 1890 : that all Auxiliary
or Branch Societies be immediately notiﬁed to that
effect, and requested to organize under Chapter 490,
Laws of 1888.’

“Pursuant, therefore, to the above, I respectfully,
request that you will return to these Headquarters on
or before December 31, 1890, the certiﬁcate of appoint-
ment of your Branch Organization issued by this
Society, as the same will be cancelled on the date
referred to.

“ It was with a View of extending the cause of animal
protection, and to secure for those interested in the
work a stronger and more efﬁcient basis for future
successful operations, that the law referred to (at the
instance and with concurrence of the Executive Board
of this Society) wasenacted, as will be seen by
referring to the Act above mentioned.

“One of the beneﬁts obtained by Incorporation is
the right to acquire, by bequest or otherwise, real and
personal property, which cannot be done as a Branch
Organization.

“ A copy of our Manual of Laws will be mailed to
you, on page 16 of which will be found the text of
the Act providing for Incorporation.”

 

In many instances advantage has been taken of the new law,.....
and what were formerly subordinate organizations, are now strong —
Societies invested with full power to act independently. Reports.
received from kindred organizations show that the influence of
the merciful labor in behalf of defenceless animals has taken.

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

II

strong Ehold upon the minds of people who have heretofore-
appeared indifferent to the rights of the inferior creation.

New Societies have been organized in several States, and it is.
gratifying to report that success has attended every effort made-
towards extending the good work.

The reports of the Treasurer and Superintendent give in detail‘
the more interesting features of the past year’s labor.

Seventy—six names have been added to the role of membership
during the ,past year, and the Committee begs to assure all, that
every thing is being done to extend the work in a practical and
economic manner.

The President during the past year has devoted most of his.
time to the work of the Society, and it should not be forgotten,
that he, as well as the other executive Ofﬁcers of the Society,
receive no salaries for the important services rendered.

We desire to acknowledge our appreciation of the continued
kindness of the Safe Deposit Company of New York, in giving to.
the Society, free of rent, the use of a large safe in their vaults.

GEO. G. DEWITT, Jr.,
Sea/62mg}-

 




\

jAMES M. BROWN.

At a meeting of the Board of Managers, held at the
Society’s headquarters, the following memorial, ex-
pressive of the great loss the Society has sustained, by
the death of its late Vice-President, James M. Brown,
was unanimously adopted :

The American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals, through its Board of Managers, records its
sense of the great loss it has sustained through the
death of the late James M. Brown. For many years
Mr. Brown was connected with this Society and served
it ofﬁcially since 1876. He was endowed by nature
with a kindly, generous, and sympathetic disposition
which qualiﬁed him to be the friend of the humble
and dependent creatures below us, and their defender
against aggressions of oppressive and cruel men. His
thorough knowledge of business and his practical ac-
quaintance with affairs made him a wise counsellor
and an able director in our Society. His high stand-
ing in this community and his command of the respect
and conﬁdence of the public enabled him to render
the Society a very important service at a trying and
critical epoch in its history, when his acceptance of the

__l

 

I2

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

Presidency, at considerable sacriﬁce, and his daily
personal attention to the duties of that ofﬁce for
several weeks, brought the Society through difﬁculties,
which, but for his help, might have proved serious
hindrance to its work. Mr. Brown was elected a
member of the Executive Committee, November zrst,
1876. On the 11th of March, 1889, upon the resigna-
tion of Mr. Henry Bergh, the younger, he consented to
accept an election to the Presidency, and served in that
ofﬁce till April 12th of the same year, when he resigned
it, and resumed his former place in the Executive
Board. He was elected Vice-President, November
26th, 1889, to ﬁll the vacancy caused by the death of
Mr. N. M. Beckwith, and held that ofﬁce till the day
Of his death, July 19th, 1890. As a warm friend of
the cause to which this Society is devoted; as one
of the most regular attendants at the meetings of
the Board of Managers; as a Christian gentleman, a
noble-hearted citizen, and personal friend, his loss is
deeply lamented by all connected with this Society.
The Society directs that the foregoing brief tribute
of its esteem for his memory be entered on the min-
utes of the Board of Managers, and a copy of it be
engrossed and sent to his family.

 

1.3

  

 

 




 

 

 

CHARLES LANIER, Treasurer, 2'72 Account wit/z THE AMERICAN SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF
CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.

 

Dec. 31. To Cash Balance on deposit in Union

1889 DR. 1 1890 Cr.
Trust Co. . . . . . $12,292 86 l

Dec. 31. By Cash Disbursements from January
. . . . Ist todate inclusive, for maintenance
To Cash Balance in Drawer . . . 12 67 , of Society . . . . . . . . . . . $26,365 64
——$12,305 53 I By Cash Deposits on Badges refunded . . . 3o 25
“ “ Bequest Estate Ellen M. Gif— i “ “ Legal Expenses . . . . . 5,413 57
ford . . . . . . . . . . . . 50,000 00 l “ “ OurAm'maZ Friends . . . . . . 1,008 00
Bequest Estate Mary Ann , “ “ Taxes and Insurance . . . . . . 2,737 30
Keith . . . . . . . . . . 2,006 15 i “ “ Improvements and Repairs on
Bequest Estate Samuel Dietz . . . 1,957 00 1 Real Estate . . . . . .
“ “ Ellen Thom- ‘ “ “ Invested in Ist Mortgage R. R.
son . . . . . . 475 00 i Bonds . . . . . . . 21,682 22
“ “ “ “ E. D. Under- Fountain Account . . . . . . 231 23
hill . . . . . . 475 00 Ambulance House Equipment . . . 511 60
Members’ Subscriptions and Furniture and Fixtures . . . . . . 1,414 82
Donations to date . . . . . . . 6,810 25 : “ Balance on deposit in Union
Fines . . . . . . . . . . . . 3,300 10 I Trust Co. . . . . . . $23,539 95
Deposits on Badges . . . . . . . 15 00 :5 Balance in safe . . . . . 738 43
From other sources . . . . . . . 20,989 53 -———— 24‘278 38

 

14.660 55

 

15

u h
ts H

Qt II

 

 

$98,333 56 $98.33; 56

 

 

Dec. 31, To Cash Balance on deposit in Union
Trust Co. . .. . . . . . . . $23,539 95
“ Balance In safe . . . . . 738 43 ‘1
824.278 38 ii

b5

We. the undersigned, have this day examined the accounts of The American Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, as exhibited to us by books and vouchers, and ﬁnd them correct and
in accordance therewith.

JAMES GRANT WILSON,
GEORGE G. DEWITT, IR,

A zrziz'tz'rzg C 0 m mz'z‘z‘ee.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SUPERINTENDENT’S REPORT.

 

In presenting this the Twenty-ﬁfth Annual Report of the gen-
eral work accomplished during the past year, I would premise by
saying that, many people interested in the work in which this
Society is engaged have but a faint conception of the dangers and
hardships which attend the enforcement of the humane laws of
the State, as well as the succoring of animals in distress. For
the information of such, a few brief statistics will be found in the
following report, taken from our ofﬁcers’ daily records, which will
serve to show the character of the labor referred to. It must not
be assumed, either, that cruelty is on the increase, by reason of a
larger showing of “complaints investigated” in this report than
in those of previous years ; it is owing to our increased population,
many new phases of abuse of animals which have presented them-
selves, likewise to a more practical application of new methods
adopted, to ferret out and follow up cases of ﬂagrant neglect to
properly care for, or otherwise illtreat, animals.

From the magnitude of the service, it is impossible to mention
every detail, hence the necessity for presenting only a brief state-
ment of the different phases of cruelty that have been investi-
gated, and the evils remedied by criminal proceedings or moral,
suas1on.

STABLES.

The fact that proper sanitary conditions are as necessary for
the health and comfort of horses and cows as they are for human
beings has been recognized by many large owners of such animals,
and there can be found throughout the city structures of palatial
design, containing the most modern improvements and conven—
iences for the care and comfort of the dumb inmates. There are
others, however, who are obliged to stable their animals under-
ground, or in rickety sheds in rear of tenements. To these latter

16

 

 




 

 

 

 

I7

classes of so-called stables has ofﬁcial attention been mainly
directed, and in every instance where improvements were neces—
sary it was insisted they should be provided.

The following single case will illustrate. In an underground
apartment on the west side of the city twenty or more horses
were stabled. The place was dark, no ventilation, and only one
opening for entrance and exit. In case of fire it would be simply
impossible to get a single animal out alive. The proprietor was
requested to make the necessary improvements, but he demurred,
on the grount “that it would cost too much.” He was informed
that criminal proceedings would be instituted, if he failed to
comply with the reasonable request. It is needless to say that
the work was satisfactorily done. A short time afterwards, the
man called on President Haines, and stated that since making
the changes in the stable the horses were in better condition, and
he regretted he had not made them before. i

There is no doubt that but for the vigilance of our ofﬁcers
many a poor beast of burden, after a hard day’s work, would have
been turned into his wretched stable without food, water, or
bedding, there to remain until the new day. In one instance,
eighteen horses were found which had been neglected for several
days, owing to a lawsuit in which the owner was involved, and
who refused to provide food for the animals pending the litiga-
tion. The horses were taken possession of by the Society and
provided with proper shelter and sustenance.

The car, stage, and other large stables, are provided with excel—
lent accommodations for the care and comfort of the horses, but
the physical condition of the animals has been in many instances
ignored, and they have been found working while lame, sore, and
otherwise disabled. ‘

COW SHEDS.

In counties adjacent to New York there are numerous so-
called milk dairies, in which large numbers of cows are kept, for
the production of milk. To describe in detail the condition of
many of these misnomers -with their milk-producing inmates——
would shock the sensibilities of the most skeptic. The following

 




 

 

 

18

description in a single case will, however, serve the purpose:
At Woodhaven, Long Island, twenty—two cows were found in a
dark, ill-ventilated stable, the ﬁlth on the floor of which was
several inches thick, ﬁlling the building with the most foul
odors, and were reinforced by a noisome stench wafted from a
number of barrels ﬁlled with swillM—cbieﬂy the refuse from hotel
kitchens—and fed to the cows. The animals were liberated and
turned out into a large ﬁeld of luxuriant grass, within a stone’s
throw of their late prison-barn. The poor creatures evinced their
appreciation of their deliverance in every possible way, and
greedily partook of nature’s sweet repast. The proprietor was
arrested and convicted for keeping animals in an unhealthy place
and feeding them on unwholesome food.

Many similar cases could be mentioned, but want of space will
not permit. Sufﬁcient to say that, owing to the inspection made
from time to time by the Society of the so—called dairies, a much
better milk is produced, and cows are better fed and cared for.

FEEDING CATTLE FOR HUMAN FOOD.

Another business extensively carried on, is the raising and
feeding of calves, old milch cows, and lean cattle, for human
food. The places where the animals are conﬁned—for in many
instances they never see daylight from the time they are impris-
oned until taken to slaughter—are low structures, with a row of
stalls on either side, in which the animals stand up to their fet-
locks in ﬁlth, with their heads toward the centre. In front of the
cattle is a trough, from which they suck the hot soup made from
hotel refuse. In the language of a reporter who visited one of
these places, “ It would make an East African vulture glad to get
a whiff of the smell.” Several of the cattle raisers have been
prosecuted and convicted for feeding unwholesome food, but
many have escaped punishment, by reason of the failure on the
part of local juries to View the matter from any other than an
apparently friendly point of View. In the several trials had, a
sample of the vile stuff, called food, was submitted by the Society
in evidence, but while many of the jurors viewed the exhibit with
disgust, and appeared to be disturbed internally, it had no effect

 




 

19

on their minds when determining the verdict, which in most
cases was for the offender.

’ CANAL WORK.

Two experienced ofﬁcers were detailed from the headquarters’
force during the towing season, for duty on the canals. Many of
the animals employed as motive power were found in a pitiful
condition. Festering wounds, measuring eleven inches in diame—
ter, into which the harness was almost imbedded, were found on
the breasts of some of the poor creatures, while others were
decrepit, lame, and otherwise unﬁt for the labor they were forced
to do. The ofﬁcers, in a short time, had several boat captains
and drivers arraigned before local magistrates on charges of
cruelty.

The presence of the ofﬁcers on the towpath was soon known
along the line, the fact having been telegraphed from lock to lock.
Their determined and Vigorous action ﬁnally aroused the bel-
ligerancy of the rougher element of the canallers, and on several
occasions, but for their ﬁrmness and courage, they would have
been assaulted.

One of the methods resorted to by canallers to get rid of their
animals, when past use, is to throw them into some creek or
isolated part of the canal and let them drown. A case of this
kind occurred while the ofﬁcers were at Lockport. It appears
that an old horse owned by two boatmen, having become a source
of much annoyance to them, they determined to get rid of the
animal, and to that end, with the assistance of several friends,
dragged the poor creature from the barn and threw it into the
canal to drown. A citizen, passing by, saw the cruel deed, and
caused the arrest of the perpetrators. Hearing of the case, our
ofﬁcers hastened to the scene of the outrage, where they found
the horse struggling for its life in the water. A bullet, mercifully
directed, ended the poor creature’s sufferings.

The brutal offenders, on being arraigned before a local mag-
istrate, pled not guilty, but owing to the non-appearance in court
of the citizen who witnessed the affair, they were discharged,

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

20

although the complainant did present himself a few minutes later,.
having been detained on his way to court. Comment is un-
necessary.

In addition to the disabled animals taken possession of at the-
time of the arrest of their owners or drivers, many others were
suspended from labor, by reason of lameness or other physical
disability, and placed in barns under the care of veterinary sur—
geons, with instructions that they should not be worked until in.
proper condition. It would take up too much space to record,
the many instances wherein the ofﬁcers interfered to prevent
cruelty and mitigate pain and suffering to the poor beasts of'
burden employed on the several water-ways of the State.

SALTING THE STREETS.

Many complaints have been received by the Society from.
drivers and owners of horses against the salting of the streets by
railroad corporations; For many years salting of the streets was.
forbidden by statute, but in 1885 a bill was introduced in the
legislature, in the interest of surface-railroad corporations, and,
passed, which virtually repealed the prohibitory act. Imme-
diately after a snow-fall, not content with using salt on curves,.
crossings, and switches, but the entire length of the roadway is
sprinkled, and in a short time the streets are covered with a,
salted slush. This could be remedied, in a measure, if the mix-
ture was swept at once into the culverts, instead of being allowed
to remain on the roadways.

STOCK-YARDS AND SLAUGHTER-HOUSES.

Much suffering has been mitigated and cruelty prevented by'
the presence of our ofﬁcers at the cattle-receiving depots and the
abattoirs. The practice of bringing milch cows to market with
their udders distended with milk, for the purpose of enhancing;
their value, has been almost entirely suppressed. The ofﬁcers,
who are always present on the arrival of boats or trains engaged
in the transportation of such animals, compel the cattlemen to.
allow the progeny to partake of the natural food of which they

 

 




 

21

have been deprived while in transit. Cows without young are
relieved of their suffering by being milked. But for the vigilance
exercised over the several slaughter-houses, beeves, sheep, and
calves would be deprived of food and water while awaiting
slaughter by unscrupulous dealers, who consider the cost of feed-
ing the animals as so much money thrown away, “because they
are to be killed the ’next day.” On several occasions owners of
cattle have been aroused in the middle of the night and compelled
to furnish food for the stock.

The bleeding of calves for the purpose of bleaching the flesh
has been discontinued, owing to severe penalties inflicted on
several butchers prosecuted and convicted for the offence.

POULTRY.

Dealers in poultry were inclined to disregard the statute per-
taining to the carrying of animals in a cruel and inhuman manner,
although given ample warning, verbally and by circular letter,
issued by President Haines. They were brought to a realization
of their neglect, by the arrest and conviction of several of the
most deﬁant. 'The trafﬁc, however, requires to be continually
watched, in order to prevent neglect to feed and water the animals
on their arrival in this city from the West and other parts of the
country.

DOG- AND COCK-FIGHTING.

Several dog- and cock-ﬁghting pits have been successfully raided
during the past year, and the paraphernalia used seized and de-
stroyed, pursuant to statute. Many persons have been arrested
while engaged in promoting, by their presence, these brutal orgies,
.and convicted and punished by ﬁne and imprisonment.

PATROL AND AMBULANCE SERVICE.

The efﬁciency of this department of the work has been fully
demonstrated. Many animals found injured or sick, in the streets
and other places, have been relieved, their wounds and ailments
temporarily attended to, while awaiting transportation to veteri-
nary hospitals or their stables, in the ambulance.

 

 




 

’7
23

While patrolling Fifth Avenue one day, one of our ofﬁcers
stopped a carriage to which was attached a team of beautiful
horses. Nothing apparent was the matter with the animals.
Hence the inquiry by the driver: “\Vhat do you want to stop
me for, my horses are not lame or sore, my whip is in the socket,
and I am driving slowly?” Several people who had been at—
tracted to the scene were surprised at the ofﬁcer’s action, they not
being able to see any thing the matter with the horses, and for
that reason thought the stopping of the vehicle an unwarranted
assumption of authority. Walking up to the horse on the right
side of the pole, the ofﬁcer directed the irate driver’s attention to
the blood streaming down the animal’s face from a cut over the
eye, produced by a loose blinder, which kept striking the wounded
part every step the horse took. There was a sudden change from
dissent to one of approval of the ofﬁcer’s conduct. The ladies
who were in the carriage were at ﬁrst indignant at the delay, until
the nature of the case was explained to them. The wounded
animal was cared for, and the broken blinder repaired.

Again: A horse attached to a coupé was suddenly taken ill
with the nervous disease known as “staggers,” and before the
driver realized the situation the animal was almost in a state
of frenzy. A painter passing at the time undertook to perform
the operation of blood-letting with a blunt jack-knife. The
patrol wagon with two of our ofﬁcers happened upon the scene at
this critical moment, and saved the horse from being stabbed and
possibly death. A sponge saturated with spirits of ammonia, put
in the animal’s nostril, was all that was done by the ofﬁcer, but
the effect was surprising to the bystanders, who at ﬁrst sided with
the would-be blood-spiller. In a few moments the horse had
recovered from the paroxysm of pain, and was quietly driven away.

Again : A cow was being led through the streets on its way to
Long Island, apparently in good physical condition. A moan, as
if of pain, however, attracted attention, and indicated that some-
thing was wrong. On inspection, the udder was found distended
in a manner making it difﬁcult for the animal to walk, and
milk was oozing out. An ofﬁcer stopped the man and made him
milk the cow. Several persons thought he had exceeded his

 




 

 

 

 

 

24

authority, but when the case was explained, and the relief to the
anima1——which was plainly indicated by the creature itself was
made apparent, the ofﬁcial interference was understood.

Again : A car on its way up-town crammed full of people was
stopped by an ofﬁcer. The passengers on the front platform
took exception to their being delayed for, to them, no apparent
reason. One of the horses was taken off, however, and on exam-
ination the right fore-leg was found to be cut and bleeding, which
caused the animal great pain and suffering. Of course when the
late indignant passengers were made aware of the cause of their
delay they changed their opinions.

Again : An ofﬁcer passing down one of the East-side streets
noticed a woman, coming out of a tenement—house, and throw
something into a barrel. On looking into the receptacle he
found three live kittens. Going into the house, he ordered the
woman to remove the animals and properly dispose of them.

 

Instead of doing so, however, she set up a screaming, which

attracted a crowd of people, who, not being aware of the nature
of the ease, took exception to the ofﬁcer’s action, and sided with
the woman. On explaining the case, a reaction of sentiment
came about. The woman to save herself from arrest gathered up

'the kittens and brought them to the Society’s headquarters,

where they were properly disposed of.

Again: A horse attached to a cart loaded with coal was
stopped in the middle of a prominent thoroughfare and taken out
of harness The animal appeared to be all right, hence the
ofﬁcer was called ofﬁeious. On examining the horse’s feet,
however, it was found that the nigh fore-foot was shoeless, and
the other three shoes almost worn to the frog. The poor
creature could hardly get a foothold, let alone drag a heavy
load. It was sent to the blacksmith-shop for repairs.

Many other cases seemingly of no consequence could be
mentioned, in which ofﬁcial interference has been characterized
as ofﬁcious and unwarranted until explained.

An. ofﬁcial supervision has been kept overplaces of amusement
where animals are on exhibition, or employed, as well as over
depots, markets, ferries, and all other places requiring ofﬁcial

 

 




 

25

attention. The outlying districts have been patrolled, and much
cruelty has been prevented and suffering mitigated.

SUMMARY.

The following tables show, in a concise form, the character
and magnitude of the work that has been accomplished during
the past twenty-ﬁve years :

Cases prosecuted in the Courts .............................. 16,776

Disabled Animals temporarily suspended from work ........... 43,393

Horses, disabled past recovery, humanely destroyed ............ 31,650

Disabled Horses removed from the Streets in the Ambulances. . 5,866
1890.

The aggregate result for the year [890 is as follows :

Cases prosecuted in the Courts .............................. 986
Disabled Animals temporarily suspended from work ........... 4,180
Horses, disabled past recovery, humanely destroyed. . . . . . . . . . 2,284
Small Animals, disabled past recovery, humanely destroyed. . . . 1,347
Disabled Horses removed from the Streets in the Ambulances. . 520
Complaints received and investigated ........................ 3,609

In conclusion, the undersigned refers with pleasure to the
efﬁciency of the Society’s regular uniformed staff of ofﬁcers of
New York and Brooklyn, likewise to the intelligent discrimination
exercised on all occasions affecting their ofﬁcial duties.

Respectfully submitted,
CHARLES H. HANKINSON,
Superintendent.

 




 

 

 

FOLLOWING ARE SOME OF THE MORE IM-
PORTANT CASES PROSECUTED DURING
THE PAST YEAR.’

Wm. Reilly, Daniel Skelly, James Byrnes,Michael McVictor, Ge orge
Peace, Samuel Ash, Bartlett Farrel, and John Mally were assembled
around a cockpit, erected in the rear of a liquor saloon, kept by the
latter, at No. 540 Graham Avenue, Brooklyn. A cock—ﬁght had just
ended, when the Society’s ofﬁcers broke into the room, and secured the
necessary evidence to convict the above-named persons for having
violated the law. They were each ﬁned ten dollars by Judge Goetting.

Mally, the proprietor of the place, was, in addition to paying his
ﬁne of ten dollars, mulcted out of an additional ﬁfty dollars, for
allowing the ﬁght to take place on his premises.

James Larkin, keeping two horses conﬁned in a stable for three days
without food or water. Fined twenty—ﬁve dollars by Judge Tiege.

Herman Strom, causing and permitting a horse of which he was the
owner to be worked Lwhile the animal was sore and weak. The
excuse offered by Strom when arraigned was, “I did not think the
horse was so bad.” Fined ten dollars by Court of Special Sessions.

Thomas Gerharty, siezing a dog by the tail, and dashing the body of

the animal against the stone pavement. Fined ﬁve dollars by Court of
Special Sessions.

Alse Palm, striking a dog on the head several times with a hammer.
His defence was, “ The dog tried to bite me.” The dog was a very
small one. Acquitted by Court of Special Sessions.

Frederick Bartlett, was arrested opposite the Fifth Avenue Hotel,
for driving a horse attached to a Fifth Avenue stage. The animal
was very lame, and had to be carried to the stable in one of the
Society’s ambulances. On being brought to trial, the defendant
stated that the horse had gone lame afterleaving the stable. Acquitted
by Court of Special Sessions.

Fred. Brown, over-loading and beating a horse on the body with a
shovel, and on the face with his ﬁst. Fined ﬁve dollars by Court Of
Special Sessions.

Jacob Golden, Michael Golden, and Max Frine, cruelly beating a
horse all the way over the bridge from Brooklyn to New York, each
defendant using the whip in turn. Fined ﬁve dollars each by Court of
Special Sessions.

26

 

 




 

Feb. 26. John Evers, for driving a team of mules attached to a loaded truck..
Both of the animals were suffering from horrible wounds on the
shoulder, unprotected from the harness. “ I did n’t know the mules
were sore,” was the defence. Fined ten dollars by Court of Special
Sessions.

March 3. Geo. S. Anderson, for throwing a live dog from a second-story win—
dow to the street. “LI thought. the dog was dead,” was the defend-
ant’s excuse. Acquitted by Judge \Valsh.

March 6. Thomas Boland, beating a horse with a truck rung. The animal
was in a deplorable condition. Fined thirty dollars by Judge Warring.

March 7. Frank Castro, overworking and overloading a horse. The animal
was harnessed to a truck containing lumber and brick. The road was
bad and the hauling heavy, but “he was determined to make the

)

horse go.’ Fined twenty dollars by Judge Casey.

March 10. J. Grade, beating a horse on the head with a whip, “because the

’

animal was frightened at a locomotive.’

Ack er.

Fined ten dollars by Judge

March 1:. Wm. Murtha, beating a horse with a bearing-chain, and kicking
the animal in the stomach, also jerking the bridle until the horse’s
mouth was cut and bleeding. Sent to prison for ten days by Court of
Special Sessions.

March I3. A. Dandegnac, kicking a dog, simply because “it came to the

7

barn.’ Fined ﬁve dollars by Judge Casey.
Also conﬁning eight cows and two calves in a ﬁlthy and unhealthy

stable. Fined twenty dollars by Judge Casey.

March 22. Michael Sheehan, Martin Ryan, and James Smith were prose-
cuted and convicted for having “ docked ” the tails of several ponies
at Woodsbury, L. 1. One ofrthe witnesses stated that the animals

,9

” screamed like human beings, when the mutilation was going on.
Another declared: “It made me sick, and I had to go away.”
Judge Hewlett sentenced Michael Sheehan to pay a ﬁne of ﬁfty
dollars, and be imprisoned in the County Jail for thirty days. Martin

Ryan and James Smith were each ﬁned forty dollars.

April 2. Adolph Feltman, twisting the wings of geese, and throwing them
in a violent manner to the stone pavement. Fined ﬁve dollars by
Court of Special Sessions.

April 7. Charles Kerr, beating a horse on the head and body with a shovel.
Fined ﬁve dollars by Court of Special Sessions.

April 16. W. Wendt, cruelly beating a dog with a club. Fined ﬁfteen dol--
lars by Judge Casey.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

28

prril I6. A dog-ﬁght came off in a sporting resort known as the Sea Side
Pavilion, at Fort Hamilton, kept by one John Nappier. While the
ﬁght was in progress the look-out discovered the approach of the
Society’s ofﬁcers, and gave the alarm. The gang, in their fright and
eagerness to avoid arrest, burst through windows and doors, and
sought safety in boats and other conveyances. A majority of them
were known, however, and the following were subsequently arrested

and convicted :

Wm. Gormely, John Clancy,
James Martin, Martin Short,
John Masterson, Alfred Stenson,
John Gleason, Thos. Walsh,

John Mahon, Chas. Mahon,
Patrick McMahon, Edward McCrossen,
Simeon Flaherty, Pat. Mullins,

“ Shorty ” Delaney, Pat. Cahill,
Edward Short, John Zimmer.

On the plea of guilty of being present at the ﬁght, each was ﬁned
ten dollars by Judge Church.

John Nappier, the proprietor of the premises, was ﬁned ten dollars
on his plea of guilty to having allowed the ﬁght to take place in the

building.

April I7. Chas. Kerr : “ I beat the horse because he could not get along fast

” said this offender, when charged with cruelly beating a

enough.
Pdned ﬁve

miserable-looking horse on the head with an iron shovel.
dollars by Court of Special Sessions.

April I7. Henry Latten. This defendant was driving a horse suffering from
a dreadful sore on the top of the neck, into which the collar was
rubbing. “I did n’t think it hurt the horse any,” he replied,
when questioned by the magistrate. Fined twenty dollars by Judge
Casey.

Henry Hertzog, for overdriving a horse attached to a loaded wagon.
The animal was suffering at the time from a sore 3 x 2 inches on
the back under the saddle; also on the breast, I x 1% inches, chafed
by the collar. Fined ten dollars by Judge Casey.

May I.

John Hash and Peter Dunn, kicking and choking a ﬁve-weeks old
calf. Fined ﬁve dollars by Court of Special Sessions.

May 6. Henry Ruttner. This defendant was driving a horse at a rapid
rate, and at the same time beating the animal with the reins, upon
the end of which was a large iron buckle. Fined ﬁve dollars by

Judge Walsh.

May 3.

 




 

May II.

May 12.

May I4.

May I5.

May 16.

May 16.

May 16.

May 24.

May 30.

May 31.

29

Tony Martin, for pouring kerosene oil over the body of a rat which
he had caught in a trap, then setting it on tire. Fined ﬁve dollars by-
Court of Special Sessions.

Charles Turner, West Brighton, S. 1., shooting and killing two.

pigeons, thereby causing their young to starve. Fined ten dollars by
Judge Acker.

Theo. Erath, for cruelly beating a horse over the head and eyes
with a whip ; “ to make him go,” was the excuse. Fined ﬁve dollars
by Court of Special Sessions.

Simon Lefonkowitz, for twisting, or what is known as “locking,”
the wings of geese, then conﬁning the animals in coops for many

hours Without food. Fined five dollars by Court of Special
Sessions.
Hugh Cochran, striking a horse on the foreleg with a hammer.

The defendant is a blacksmith, and the animal was sent to his shop to
be shod; becoming uneasy it exasperated Cochran, who struck the
animal several blows on the leg with his blacksmith’s hammer. His
defence was: “ The horse would not stand still.” Acquitted by
Court of Special Sessions.

William McNulty, for seizing a dog by the neck and beating the
animal in a cruel manner with a stick of wood. Acquitted by Court
of Special Sessions.

Jacob Fronty, for compelling a horse to pull a loaded truck while
suffering from a dreadful sore on the neck, unprotected from the har-
ness. Fined ﬁfteen dollars by Judge Kenna.

Wm. Duncan, for striking a horse on the body with a stick of wood.
The wagon had become stalled in a hole in the pavement in such a
position that it was impossible for the animal to start the load. In-
stead of helping the horse in other ways, Duncan beat it most unmer-
cifully with a stick. Fined ten dollars by Court of Special Sessions.

Wm. Koch, West Brighton, S. I., for shooting two dogs belonging
to a neighbor, simply because the animals ran through an open gate
leading to Koch’s lawn. Fined ﬁfty dollars by Judge Casey.

For instigating and promoting a dog-ﬁght :
Henry O’Brien, Pat Carney,
James Donovan, John Beck,
Francis Flanning, Fred Becket,
James Smith, Michael Rielly,
Daniel Casey, Michael Mahoney,

James McGuiness, John Daley,

 




 

May II.

May 12.

May I4.

May 15.

May 16.

May 16.

May 16.

May 24.

May 30.

May 31.

29

Tony Martin, for pouring kerosene oil over the body of a rat which
he had caught in a trap, then setting it on fire. Fined ﬁve dollars by
Court of Special Sessions.

Charles Turner, West Brighton, S. 1., shooting and killing two

pigeons, thereby causing their young to starve. Fined ten dollars by
Judge Acker.

Theo. Erath, for cruelly beating a horse over the head and eyes
with a whip ; “ to make him go,” was the excuse. Fined ﬁve dollars
by Court of Special Sessions.

Simon Lefonkowitz, for twisting, or what is known as “ locking,”
the wings of geese, then confining the animals in coops for many

hours without food. Fined five dollars by Court of Special
Sessions.
Hugh Cochran, striking a horse on the foreleg with a hammer.

The defendant is a blacksmith, and the animal was sent to his shop to
be shod; becoming uneasy it exasperated Cochran, who struck. the
animal several blows on the leg with his blacksmith’s hammer. His
defence was: “ The horse would not stand still.” Acquitted by
Court of Special Sessions.

William McNulty, for seizing a dog by the neck and beating the
animal in a cruel manner with a stick of wood. Acquitted by Court
of Special Sessions.

Jacob Fronty, for compelling a horse to pull a loaded truck while
suffering from a dreadful sore on the neck, unprotected from the har—
ness. Fined ﬁfteen dollars by Judge Kenna.

Wm. Duncan, for striking a horse on the body with a stick of wood.
The wagon had become stalled in a hole in the pavement in such a
position that it was impossible for the animal to start the load. In-
stead of helping the horse in other ways, Duncan beat it most unmer-
cifully with a stick. Fined ten dollars by Court of Special Sessions.

Wm. Koch, West Brighton, S. 1., for shooting two dogs belonging
to a neighbor, simply because the animals ran through an open gate
leading to Koch’s lawn. Fined ﬁfty dollars by Judge Casey.

For instigating and promoting a dog-fight :
Henry O’Brien, Pat Carney,
James Donovan, John Beck,
Francis Flanning, Fred Becket,
James Smith, Michael Rielly,
Daniel Casey, Michael Mahoney,

James McGuiness, John Daley,

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

June I2.
June 17.

June 19.

June 25.

June 25.

June 26.

June 27.

June 27.

June 27.

Thos. Powers, Wm. Mahen,

Wm. Murphy, Michael Jones,

John Mooney, Thos. Dalton,

Henry Rigby, James Ryan,

Thos. Kibbett, James Martin.

About ﬁfty persons were seated around the dog~pit, erected in the loft
of a stable, belonging to Simon Flaherty, at VVoodside, L. 1., when
the ofﬁcers of the Society entered the place. Being nearly ﬁve miles
to the nearest court—house, it was impossible to arrest all the gang and
take them such a distance, part of the way being through a stretch of
woods. By hand-cufﬁng two prisoners together the above—named
were secured. It was midnight before the Town Hall at Newtown
was reached, and Judge Brandon opened court, and daylight on Sun—
day morning before the proceedings were ended. Each of the de—
fendants pled guilty and was ﬁned ten dollars, excepting one, who
demanded a jury trial. He was convicted and ﬁned twenty-ﬁve
dollars.

Henry Heide, for working a team of horses while in a disabled con—
dition, ﬁned ﬁfteen dollars by Judge Acker.

Paul Hoffman, Jamaica, L. 1., keeping three cows in a ﬁlthy condi—
tion. Fined ten dollars by Judge Brush.

Henry Horstman, \Voodside, L. 1., keeping twenty cows in a ﬁlthy
condition and feeding them on swill. Fined ﬁfty dollars by Judge
Hendrickson.

Peter Gaines, driving a horse attached to a stage; the animal was
suffering at the time from two bleeding sores on the breast 4.}x2%,
5x1»;- inches. unprotected from the harness. Fined ten dollars by
Judge Sutherland.

Joseph West, kicking a race—horse on the mouth, head, and body at
the Sheepshead race track. Fined ﬁfty dollars, or sixty days’ impris—
onment, by Judge Sutherland.

Albert VVebber, for beating a mule in an inhuman manner over the
body with the butt end of a whip, cutting the ﬂesh and drawing blood.
Fined ﬁve dOllars by Court of Special Sessions.

Lewis Wilkins, driving a horse having a large sore on the breast,
unprotected from the harness. Fined ten dollars by Judge Goetting.

James Moore, driving a horse attached to a loaded ice wagon, while
suffering from sores on the body, unprotected from the harness.
Fined ten dollars by Judge Goetting.

Samuel Shapon, for cruelly beating a horse attached to a heavily
loaded wagon. The animal was weak, feeble, and emaciated. Fined

ﬁve dollars by Court of Special Sessions.

 

 




 

June 28.

June 30.

July 1.

July 5.

July 5.

July 9.

July IO.

July IO.

July II.

July 11.

July 11.

_,July 17.

3T

Martin Delaney, cruelly beating a horse on the body with a whittle—
tree. Fined ten dollars by Judge Kenna.

Herman Reuben, was arrested at \Voodside, 1.. 1., for keeping
forty-two cows, for the production of milk for sale, in a most ﬁlthy
condition. Although plenty of pasturage was in the immediate vicinity
of the barn where the animals were confined, they were not allowed
to enjoy their freedom, or partake of nature's beneﬁts. Fined ﬁfty
dollars by Judge Brandon.

William Jones, for torturing a cow with a stick of wood. Sent to
the penitentiary for six months.

Robert Murtha, for driving a dreadfully sore horse, which at the time
was attached to a loaded truck. Fined fifteen dollars by Judge Acker.

Edward O’Keefe, of Long Island City, for feeding thirty head of
cattle on hotel refuse. The place in which the animals were found
was in a most ﬁlthy condition. Fined twenty dollars by Judge

Manley.

Suartz Wolff, for keeping ducks and ckickens in a crowded condition
Without food or water. Fined ten dollars by Court of Special Sessions.

John Ahran, beating a horse over the head and body with the butt
end of a whip, cutting the eyeball. Sentenced to penitentiary for
three months by Court of Special Sessions.

John Derrick, for driving a mule, harnessed to a loaded canal boat,
having large sores on the breast, unprotected from the collar. Fined
ﬁve dollars by Judge Eisenmenger, of Schenectady, N. Y.

Robert McGettingan, for compelling a horse to draw a heavily loaded
truck while the animal was in a disabled condition. Fined ten dollars
by Judge Powers.

Kipolit Blatchwarz, of Port Richmond, was arrested for compelling
a decrepit horse to draw a heavily loaded wagon. Fined ﬁve dollars
by Judge Power.

John Kelly, Albany, N. \'., causing and permitting a team of mules
to haul a loaded canal boat, while they were suffering from large sores
on the breast, unprotected from the harness. Kelly resisted arrest,
but was ﬁnally subdued and taken to jail. Fined fifteen dollars by
Judge Eisenmenger.

Joseph Casey, driving a team of horses, suffering at the time from
five horrible wounds on the breast, chafed by the collar. Fined ten
dollars by Judge Walsh.

 




 

 

 

July 18.

July 20.

July 23.

July 26.

July 30.

Aug.

Aug.

Aug.
Aug.

Aug.

Aug.

Aug.

Aug.

IO.

18.

21.

22.

25.

32

Henry Walters, causing and permitting a team of horses to be
worked while lame and weak. Fined twenty—ﬁve dollars by Court of
Special Sessions.

Lepsic Garonosky, abandoning a sick horse in the street to die.
Fined ten dollars by Court of Special Sessions.

Tony Kendal, pushing calves out of a truck to the stone pavement.
Fined ﬁve dollars by Court of Special Sessions.

James Cahill, Cohoes, N. Y., for driving a team of mules to a loaded
canal boat ; said mules had numerous sores on the breast. Fined ten
dollars by Judge Porter.

Charles Vollmer, cruelly beating a horse on the head and body with
a stick of wood. “It ’s my own horse, and I can do as I please,” he
replied when remonstrated with. Fined twenty-ﬁve dollars by Judge
Howard.

Henry Meyers, causing and permitting one Robert Shannon to drive
a mule to a loaded canal boat, While suffering from sores on the breast.
Fined ten dollars by Recorder McElWin.

Louis Silverstein, driving a sick and otherwise disabled horse attached
to a heavily loaded truck “ because he felt like it.” Fined ten dollars
by Judge Walsh, but went to jail in default of payment of the ﬁne.

Calcio Lamberte, compelling a poor emaciated sore horse to pull a
loaded wagon. Fined ten dollars by Judge Patterson.

William Cunningham, for compelling a horse which was sore to pull
a loaded truck. Fined ten dollars.

Louis Schaff, conﬁning two cows in stable for two days without
milking them. The animals, when discovered, were suffering greatly
from being overstocked. Fined ﬁfteen dollars by Judge Acker.

A. K. Robertson, beating a horse on the head with a bale stick.
The animal had fallen down in a such manner as to become entangled
in the harness, and therefore could not get up unless unhitched. This
made Robertson mad, and he resorted to the bale stick. Fined ﬁfteen
dollars by Judge Kenna.

William Hall, knocking the eye out of a horse with the butt end of
a whip. The animal, he claimed, was balky, and he determined to
“knock it out of him,” which he failed to do, but, on the contrary,
deprived the animal of the sight of an eye. Fined twenty-ﬁve dollars
by Court of Special Sessions.

Robert Wenheimer, for neglecting to care for a sick horse. The
animal was subsequently shot. Fined twenty dollars by Judge
Vaughn.

 




 

Sept. 4.

Sept. 18.

Sept. 20.

Oct. 2.

Oct. 2.

Oct. II.

Oct. I3.

Oct. I8.

Nov. 3.

Nov. 25.

33

John Reed, assaulting one of the Society’s ofﬁcers while in the dis-
charge of his duty. The ofﬁcer had prevented a colored man from
compelling a very lame horse to walk a long distance, which the latter
had purchased for eight dollars, at the horse market. While the ofﬁ-
cer was arranging to have the animal mercifully disposed of, Reed,
with a crowd of roughs, attempted to take the horse away, claiming
that he had purchased it for two dollars. Fined ten dollars by Court
of Special Sessions.

Charles Koch, stabbing a horse in the face with a knife, making a
wound three inches long and quite deep. The defendant stated that
he was drunk at the time of the stabbing, and did not know what he
was doing. Fined ten dollars by Court of Special Sessions.

John McGarry, driving a horse suffering at the time with sores on
breast and back, unprotected from the harness. “ Oh, that’s nothing,”
he exclaimed when arrested ; “ the old horse don’t mind.” Fined ten
dollars by Court of Special Sessions.

Isadore Fink, carrying poultry in a cruel and inhuman manner. The
animals were packed in coops like sardines. Fined ten dollars by
Court of Special Sessions.

Thomas McArdle, cruelly beating a horse, which at the time was
suffering from sores on the body, chafed by the harness. “ It did
not hurt him,” was the excuse, although the whip was a heavy one.
Fined ten dollars by Court of Special Sessions.

James Forent, for compelling a team of small mules to drag a loaded
canal boat, while the animals were suffering from frightful sores on
their breasts, into which the harness was pressing. Fined ten dollars
by Judge Turner.

John Lane, for permitting a team of mules, owned by him, to be
tortured. Fined ﬁfteen dollars byJudge Turner.

Myron Carter, for allowing a team of mules, belonging to him, to be
worked while in a disabled condition. Fined ten dollars by Judge
Porter.

John Coburn, carrying sheep in a cruel and inhuman manner. The
legs of the animals were tied in such a way as to prevent them from
moving about. and were piled in a wagon like bundles of wood.
Fined ﬁfteen dollars.

J. Hartman, for shooting a bull in the head. The animal’s tongue
was pierced by the bullet, thereby preventing it from taking food.
The poor creature was left wounded, as described, in a ﬁeld for forty-
eight hours without surgical aid. Hartman demanded a trial by jury,
which was composed of farmers, who brought in a verdict of acquittal.

 




 

 

 

 

Dec.

Dec.

34

Wm. Green neglected to provide necessary sustenance for his cattle
and horses. The animals were found almost dead from starvatlon-
The offender was acquitted by a jury of his peers.

Michael Quinn, beating a horse on the head with the butt end of a.

‘ whip. Fined ﬁve dollars by Court of Special Sessions.

17.

Gargula Givana, whipping a horse, which at the time was Overloaded
and exhausted, until the animal was cut and bleeding. Fined ﬁve
dollars by Court of Special Sessions.

James Donavan, selling a horse diseased with glanders. Fined ﬁfteen

dollars by Judge Walsh.

Wm. Terry, causing and permitting a disabled horse to be worked-
Fined ten dollars by Judge Walsh.

Louis J. Schwab, causing and permitting poultry to be carried in a
cruel and inhuman manner. Several of the animals were smothered
to death. Fined ten dollars by Court of Special Sessions.

Solomon Scheneran, twisting the wings of poultry, then carryingr
them in an inhuman manner, namely, with their heads hanging doxvn.
Fined ﬁve dollars by Court of Special Sessions.

‘(

Austin Harvey, for docking” a horse’s tail. The operation “'21s
performed by laying the tail on a chopping—block, and severed with a
“ draw shave.” Fined three dollars by a local justice.

John Stock, striking a horse on the head several time with a shovel.
When asked why he had abused his horse, replied, “ because he could
not pull the load across the track.” Fined ﬁve dollars by Court of
Special Sessions.

George Kessel—This defendant was arrested twice in succession for
driving a horse while lame, sore, and weak. Fined ﬁve dollars for
each offence by Court of Special Sessions.

Joseph Tiethner, whipping a horse until large welts were raised on
the body ; he was requested to stop beating the animal by a lady who
stood by, which he refused to do. Fined ﬁve dollars by Court of

Special Sessions.

Daniel Fry, Jr., for beating a horse on head and body with an iron
trace chain. Acquitted by Court of Special Sessions.

Charles H. Cruger, cruelly beating a dog over the head with a
horsewhip. Fined ﬁve dollars by Judge Kenna.

 




35

Dec. 18. Matthew Cairns, overloading a team of horses attached to a truck.
The animals were in a weak and exhausted condition. Fined ﬁve
dollars by Court of Special Sessions.

Dec. 20. John Gilligan, driving a horse which was attached to a cart loaded
with brick. The animal was suffering at the time from a large
ulcerated sore on the body, unprotected from the harness. Fined ten
dollars by Judge Goetting.

Dec. 24. Hyman \Vaskovitch, driving a lame horse. It was almost impossi-
ble for the animal to go another step when stopped by the ofﬁcer.
Fined ﬁve dollars by Court of Special Sessions. Shortly after the
arrest and discharge on bail, he was again found driving the same
horse in the same condition by the same ofﬁcer. He was promptly
re—arrested, convicted, and again ﬁned ﬁve dollars.

Dec. 24.. Herman Brunjes, setting a bulldog to bite and worry a cat. The
latter endeavored to escape, and ran into an areaway, where it was
caught by its pursuer and almost torn to pieces. The defendant made
no effort to call off his dog, but, on the contrary, urged it on. He
was convicted and ﬁned ten dollars by Court of Special Sessions.

Dec. 29. James Smith, cruelly beating a horse with the butt-end of a whip,
“because I felt like it.” Fined ﬁve dollars by Court of Special
Sessions.

Dec. 29. Albert Miessner, beating a horse over the head and body with the
lash of a whip. The animal was attached to a heavily loaded vehicle,
and exhausted, so much so that it could not stir a step. Fined ﬁve dol-
lars by Court of Special Sessions.

Dec. 29. Eugene Chande, working a disabled horse. The animal was suffer-
ing from a large wound on the back, chafed by the harness. Fined
ten dollars by Judge Pendexter.

Dec. 30. John Holleran, beating a horse in a brutal manner with a stick of
wood having nails in it. The defendant thought it was quite a joke
when the ofﬁcer put him under arrest, but changed his mind when he
was locked up and ﬁned ﬁve dollars in Court of Special Sessions.

Dec. 30. Patrick Harrington, overloading a horse. The streets were full of
snow, the horse thin, weak, and exhausted, defendant using his whip
unmercifully, all of which was submitted to the magistrate. The
offender was discharged ! -

 




 

 




 

 

‘ WW “.1‘iL1V‘H t
': ”up“ \ l ‘
‘ A I WI I L
' ‘ ‘ 31 ‘ ‘ , ‘
k ' . I‘lkﬁl“ \Mti ‘ “a

, ‘ l I ‘1‘ L

 

 

 

.II

N"

‘N I866.

MODE OF CARRYING CALVES AND SHEEP

 




 

 

 

{

f . ‘V‘ﬁuﬂnvmwsu. .«u. m
.I .W/uuu LIIIMIIA‘ “-UINIWL ...._. _.
IAN .. r I0“. ...
J I | . II‘nH‘.‘ : s .
.4 11%|“

. Ilk'uwni'pu’l.’l| r“ a F,
./ x I 13.3%.
I 7 l“ 1%.,“

“UP/1

\ n
. .. r I ,..
.1 . MM z. .
I. I a... . .. _ _ «Nah. .u ..
l I I. I ”ma... - 414’. : ..
I n ,I _...._.r. . .. 1 . ._
. n pl .2; . . .7
\. ...;:... . — _
.I I. _ .. 4 : _.\
. . . . ..... . .
a- . . 7,? . z. . I\ : -
I {III I I . . . I\
3 IIII. / I: .2.
.u . Umnqu.’ ,. .3 \
. . ..:...u.,u.7-, _. ;<
0 . 1/11” I, .. .x

      

         

          

 

 

. A_.H=IJ ...|.\\\H_.... «a. .
._..WVM._%_=EW§_____WIII\I\IIIII\I\“\ . . .
,1... . .. : .mgm‘ ._ .. x?
. .

.l
m... I .. .
J _.. J.........:. I
. .. .
. I \ ...I
.. . .. . ,.
, .:
.é

. I... :23
exivax... .

\ i I
.2 r
‘ “\ .I.. I. I / .V
I 9.... a H. , . 7 I
. .._ \ .. a... . we...» u .
,. . . _ . . ..,. _ ,, a... . .. . ._.. . _
_. _ I: 7,; - \ﬁk : . . ..
s\ c. . .. .. .
._ 13.177 I .l\0 h ../ \ r . v‘
_ \ «I u. v. .HI. 4 . T . .. I I. k.“ or. V ,. ..~\
... . .nJ . ., . . . .
z I. .. . .
.4. ... o’.\ ”H. . .a. ....
. . .4 .......¢ _ .\.. . .
\J . ,f... , __ / , . \
_.. _. . ,. \ ..
A ~ \

 

   

 

 

 

   

\.

.1 (IKIII A” L‘okuh V . / K _ 1
.L o 5 ,II I. .. —. .:. In
I . . _ u . .. . .. Ir; .
.. a i . _ . I mun , 1...“..u . .I I \
u . ~ I.. I t . l . .5‘ c VI. _.:. . . V \ .
. t I\\ . I . . . H...“ _ - -. I . . I T.
\§ 9‘ x“. . \ WW“ II. . ._ I n.- N. . . .2. I I? 4.: ﬁx
I I ‘\\ . I. . III II I \I \ , . . .i
\Yl .\ 3.. . _ , w - “.2 MI
A .. \ i \ I I . _ .
I/ f . .. I
\ . u. \ x I: . \\ c I I. . . . u
. I \ x x 9 III. .uu I \ _.
. X .. . \ II. I. \ In .

. .u......mc.,.\a
\ . I. .. .1. .. \W I
Y :rx \ .InlI \\\|I

 

.I... , . , . .
,. ‘~\ ‘
_ ﬂ; .
_ _ Li .3.
. .
“
av

-.II\ 2

RE

I « 9 \ 1......
g m“ \z...
\

 
 

.(l

    

: LMWH‘IIHIIQII
,0“ RI IH\I\\|\ I.
\ . ....,. II. I.‘.

 

m..- ——.
*3"—
" a)

- 9 I
.' - ‘< ’ \ x .
. a. ...‘. 2 4 ~"" ‘ -v--- -
'~' 3’ a?! . ,. 5 '-
... . I.,; ."‘ _---“
. .'.-- .. . g I §;\\
.- ' ' §I u
u ‘5' : Elf-“RA “‘3
' l “‘ ‘i-d\~‘.\\\<<:;:‘<:‘ ' _.
I;K‘\’\‘§§W\‘
a? I )‘ I \ ll
\ II
\ _
\\}. \1

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

SOCIETIES OF NORTH AND SOUTH
AMERICA.

ORGANIZED SINCE THE FORMATION OF THE AMERICAN SOCIETY FOR
THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS—THE PARENT
SOCIETY OF AMERICA.

NEW YORK.

“THE AMERICAN SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF
CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.”

HEADQUARTERS, 100 E. 2207 Siroez‘, NEW YORK.
Organized in 1866.
JOHN P. HAINES, President. I GEO. Gr. DEWITT, JR., Secretary.

BROOKLYN OFFICE.

4 I 5 Fulton Strooz‘, Brooklyn.
F. O. CLARK, Inspector.

 

DUTCHESS COUNTY.
POUGHKEEPSIE SOCIETY P. C. A.

 

JACOB CORLIES, President. | CHARLES F. COSSUM, Secretary.
ERIE COUNTY SOCIETY P. C. A.
Bnﬂalo.

COL. E. A. ROCKWOOD, President. I MISS M. F. ROCHESTER, Secretary.
MONROE COUNTY.

HUMANE SOCIETY OF ROCHESTER.
E. V. STODDART, President. | ELIZABETH P. HALL, Secretary.
37

 

 

 




 

E EEE

E EEE

 

 

 

38

ORANGE COUNTY.
NEWBURGH SOCIETY P. C. A.

Ncwéurg/z.
GEORGE W. PETERS, President. | ALBERT E. LAYMAN, Secretary-

OSWEGO COUNTY.

Oswcgo.
MRS. MARY A. OLIVER, Secretary.

 

 

T. MORRIS PEROT, President.
ONONDAGA COUNTY SOCIETY P. C. A.

Syracuse.
DANL. BOOKSTAVER, President. | GEO. B. LEONARD, Secretary.

ROCKLAND COUNTY..

Nyczck.
G. VAN NOSTRAND, President. I D. DE GRAFF, Secretary.

WESTCHESTER COUNTY.
OSSI’NG SOCIETY.

 

 

 

' Sing Sz'ﬂg. _
MRS. H. S. SYMONDS, President. I MISS M. DUSENBURY, Secretary.

PELHAM SOCIETY P. C. A.

PcZ/zccm.
W. R. LAMBERTON, President, E ELIPHALET N. ANABLE, Sec.

 

ALABAMA.

MOM/c.
HON. RUFUS DANE, President. | E. R. QUATTLEBAUM, Secretary.

 

ARKANSAS.

Lz'z‘ﬂc Rock.
I. L. PALMER, President. . E GEO. W. ST. CLAIR, Secretary.

 

CALIFORNIA.

Sam Francisco.
JACOB Z. DAVIS, President. | NATHANIELHUNTER,Secretary.

 

 

 




 

39

L05 Ange/6s.
H. T. LEE, President. | M. D. LUMMIS, Secretary.

 

CO LORADO.
Denver.

W. S. CHEESMAN, President. I G. H. THOMSON, Secretary.

CONNECTICUT.

Hartford.
RODNEY DENNIS, President. I HENRY W. TAYLOR, Secretary.

DELAWARE.

W 2'! 772 Mg 2‘0 72.
WILLIAM CANBY, President. | WILLARD H. PORTER, Secretary.

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

W (ls/2mg £072.
A. S. PRATT, President. | HIRAM E. MITCHELL, Secretary.
FLORIDA.
Pensacola.
S. S. HARVEY, President. | FRANK MAURA, Secretary.

St. A ugusz‘iﬁe.
REV. SAM’L D. PAINE, President. | HANNA M. MARCOTT, Secretary.

GEORGIA.

Augusz‘a.
HENRY B. KING, President. I S. R. CRAIG, Secretary.

 

ILLINOIS.
C/zz'cago.
JOHN. G. SHORTALL, President. | HENRY W. CLARKE, Secretary.

Springﬁeld.
FRANK W. TRACY, President. [ HOWARD K. WEBER, Secretary.

 

 




 

41

Green C asﬂe.

R. A. OGG, President. I J. W. STUBBS, Secretary.
Greenﬁeld.
W. P. WILSON, President. I J. H. BINFORD, Secretary.
Huntz‘nglon.
S. F. DAY, President. I M. W. MOORE, Secretary.
yeﬂersonm‘l/e.
REV. J. H. DODRIDGE, President. I I. S. FRY, Secretary.
Kokonzo.
J. N. LOUP, President. I DR. T. B. MOORE, Secretary.
Loganspori.
E. S. RICE, President. I D. L. OVERHOLSER, Secretary.
Lafayette.
REV. O. WILKE, President. I
Lazweneeénrg.
P. J. EMMERT, President. I E. S. SMASHEY, Secretary.
La Porz‘e
G. M. DARIN, President. I WARREN COCHRAN, Secretary.
Leoanon.
R. W. HARRISON, President. I J. O. PEDIGO, Secretary.
Madison.
C. C. CONNETT, President. I MRS. W. A. BROOKS, Secretary.
Mnnez'e.
J. A. GODDARD, President. , I WM. R. MOORE, Secretary.
Mz'e/zzgan C z'zfy.
MR. BROWN, President. I R. F. JOHN, Secretary.
Marion.
COL. CARY, President. I C. L. RATLIFF, Secretary.
Monticello.

JOHNSON GREGORY, President. |w. T. HUFF,LSecretary.

New Aloezny.
H. J. REAMER, President. I DR. BUCKINGTON, Secretary.

 

 

 

 

 




I ‘1 42

 

 

. I I I I Naélesm'lle.
I MRS. D. MOSS, President. I DAVID MARTIN, Secretary.
Nari/z Mam/lever.
D. GINTHER, President. I PERRY SEXTON, Secretary.
Peru.
J. L. FARRAR, President.- I WM. TRACEY, Secretary.
Plymaaﬂz.
MRS. J. HOUGHTON, President. I MRS. D. MCDONALD, Secretary.
Part/and.
JASON HENLEY, President. I REV. JOHN M. ADAIR, Secretary.
Rz'c/zrrwﬂa’.
I JOSEPH DOANE, President. I W. C. SHOEMAKER, Secretary.
I [Pas/milk.
I J. H. MCNEIL, President. I D. GRAHAM, Secretary.
I Racﬁesz‘er.
I E. P. COPELAND, President. I A. C. SHEPPARD, Secretary.
I * Soar/z Beaa’.
‘ MR. MIDDLETON, President. | JOHN I. HOKE, Secretary.
I
I . Skelly/712716.
CHAS. TINSLEY, President. I W. A. POWELL, Secretary.
Seymour.
J. H. HODEPP, President. I C. C. FRY, Secretary.
Terra Hattie.
F. S. DONALDSON, President. I W. C. LOCKWOOD, Secretary.
1727266727265.

EDWARD TAYLOR, President. I YV. H. PENNINGTON, Secretary.

Valparaiso.
M. L. DEMOTTE, President. I J. R. PAGAN, Secretary. '
Warsaw.
S. W. CHIPMAN, President. I J. H. SHOUP, Secretary.
W as/zz'rzglarz.

REV. W. A. DILLON, President. I LILLIE B. INGLISS, Secretary.

 

 

 

 




 

 

43

lVabas/z.
MRS. DR. SMITH, President. 1 GEO. T. IIERRICK. Secretary.
I'Vz'ac/zosz‘or.
E. ENGLE, President. I REV. R. D. SPELLMAN, Secretary.
[Vina/”ac.

REV. D. W. CAMPBELL, President. I A. '1‘. REID. Secretary.

 

KANSAS.

Wz'c/zz'z‘a.
WM. MATTHERSON, President. MISS GALE CALDWELL, Secretary.

 

______—

KENTUCKY.

Louisville.
RUDOLPH FINZER, President. | MRS. \V. A. TODD, Secretary.

 

MAINE.

Bangor.
JOSEPH F. SNOW, President. | MRS. MARY L. PATTEN, Secretary-

‘ Portland.
M. G. PALMER, President. I F. S. WATERHOUSE, Secretary.

 

MASSACHUSETTS.

Boston.

GEO. T. ANGELL, President. | JOS. L. STEVENS, Secretary.
Tazmz‘oa.

REV. GEO. H. REED, President. I MRS. G. L. MORSE, Secretary.

_—_..__

MICHIGAN.

Dori/oil.
T. W. PALMER, President. | JENNIE M. SMITH, Secretary-
Bafﬂe Cree/e.
SIMON S. FRENCH, President. | ZENO C. SPENCER, Secretary.
. Grand Rapids.
CHAS. FLURER, President. | H. C. TOWEY, Secretary.

__.——

MINNESOTA.

Sz‘. Paul.
DANIEL R. NOYES, President. | J. I. JELLETT, Secretary.

 

 

 

 

 




 

44

MISSISSIPPI.

Nair/262.
.A LEX. ELTRINGHAM, President. I RICHARD F. REED, Secretary.

 

 

MISSOURI. ’

51‘. Louis.
ICHAS. PARSONS. President. I JOHN W. MUNSON, Secretary.

 

NEBRASKA.

Owe/2a.
CHAMPION S. CHASE, President. I PRESTON H. ALLEN. Secretary.

 

 

NEW HAMPSHIRE.

Portsmouﬂz.
HON. T. E. O. MARVIN, President. I DR. JAMES R. MAY, Secretary.

 

NEW JERSEY.

 

Newark.
.8. S. SARGEANT, President. I E. S. EDWARDS, Secretary.
Balding/1072.
JOSEPH PARRISH, President. I J. S. HAINES. Secretary.

756mg}; Cz'z‘y.
“GEORGE F. MCANENY, President. I JOHN T. M. KAYLAR, Secretary.

 

NORTH CAROLINA.

 

 

A’s/2602716.
W. H. INLOES, President. I F. L. JACOBS, Secretary.
W 27 m 272 gz‘mz.
A. S. HEIDE, President. I G. H. GREENE, Secretary.
OHIO.
C z'mz'nnatz’.
BELLAMY STORER. President. I ERASTUS BURNHAM, Secretary.
Cam‘mz.
W. W. CLARK, President. I CHAS. R. FRAZIER, Secretary.
Cleveland.
‘GENL. JAMES BARNETT, HARRY A. GARFIELD,

' President. Secretary.

 

 

 




 

 

 

45

Colzmzous.
STERLING‘ LORING, President. I FRANK C. HUBBARD, Secretary...

Toledo.
JAMES M. BROWN, President. I L. G. RICHARDSON, Secretary.

Akron.
W. B. CANNON, President. I E. P. ROWE, Secretary.
OREGON.
Porﬂmzo’.
T. L. ELIOT, President. I W. T. SHANAHAN, Secretary-
PENNSYLVANIA.

P/zz'lao’eZp/zz'a.
ROBERT W. RYERSS, President. | M. V. B. DAVIS, Secretary.

W omem’s Bram/z, P/zz'laa’e/ﬁ/zz'a.

 

MRS. R. I). WHITE, President. ' | MRS. R. \N. SMITH, Secretary.
Pz'z‘z‘sourg/z.
PROF. L. H. EATON, President. I SAMUEL DAVIDSON, Secretary-

 

RHODE ISLAND.

Providence.
J. C. B. WOODS, President. I REV. S. C. M. ORPEN, Secretary-
Newport
EDWARD R. VVHARTON, President.

 

SOUTH CAROLINA.

C/zor/esz‘oiz.
J. L. ANCRUM, M.D., President. I I. ALWYN BALL, Secretary.

TENNESSEE.

Nas/zvz’Z/e.

W. P. JONES, President. | R. A. CAMPBELL, Secretary.
Memp/zz's.

T. GALE, President. | MINTER PARKER, Secretary-

UTAH.
UTAH HUMANE SOCIETY.

Salt Lake City.
C. E. ALLEN, President. | G. W. GREENMAN, Secretary“

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

46

VERMONT.

Braz’z‘loooro.
I MRS. CHAS. VVARDER, Secretary.
Bristol.
I E. A. HASSELTINE, Secretary.

DR. G. F. GALE, President.

H. B. WILLIAMS, President.

 

VIRGINIA.

Rz'oﬁmomi.

I H. T. ELLYSON, Secretary.
[VorfoZ/e. ,

I W. B. BARTON, Secretary.

.______._.

WEST VIRGINIA.

Wr/zoolzozg.
JUDGE G. L. CRANMER, President. I MRS. JOHN S. TRIMBLE, Sec.

DR. ARMSTRONG, President.

W. F. IRVINE, President.

 

WISCONSIN.

Milwaukee.
C. W. NORRIS, President.
M 12 (Zz'soﬂ.
DR. JOSEPH HOBBINS, President. I H. H. GILES, Secretary.
Port H uroﬂ.
R. T. PATTERSON, President. I HELEN \V. FARRAR, Secretary.

 

BRITISH AMERICA.

[{cllzfox.
J. C. MACKINTOSH, President. I JOHN NAYLOR, Secretary.
H a m z'lz‘o7z.
ADAM BROWN, M.P., President. I HENRY MCLAREN, Secretary.
Mom‘rool.
CHAS. ALEXAN DER, President. I GEORGE DURNFORD, Secretary.
Oz‘z’czwa.
THE .VIAYOR OF OTTAWA, Pres. I W. C. BAKER, Secretary.
52‘. yo/m.
JOHN SEARS, President. I E. J. VVETMORE, Secretary.
Toronto.

W. R. BROCK, President. I J. J. KELSO, Secretary.

I NEWTON WOODRUFF, Secretary.

 

 




 

 

47

SOUTH AMERICA.
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC.

82(67203 Ayrc’s.
IGNACIO L. ALBARRACIN, Pres. | FERNANDO BERGHMANS, Sec.

BRAZIL.

Rio (Z76 _‘7’a7zcz'7’0.
A. M. N. GONCALVES, President. I J. ALBINO DA CRUZ, Secretary.

DOMINICAN REPUBLIC.

San 1.707/zz'7zg0.
RAFAEL ABREU LICAIRAC,PreS. I CESAR IT. PENSON, Secretary.

 

WEST INDIES.
CUBA.

Havana.
I). J. G. VILLARAZA, President.

MEXICO.

City of Mex/£0.
VIDAL CASTANEDA Y NAJ ERA, EDUARDO 1,. GALLO,

President. Secretary.

 

 




   
 
  

49

 

BRITISH AMERICA.

Halifax_—~ Society organized.
f]ami[t072.— H u
[VfozttrcaL— u u
0ttawa.—— H u
Quelzc’c.—— u u

St. David’s, Lincoln Co., O/ztmio.——— “ “

St. 70ﬂn.—— u u
T07’0ﬂfo. —— t ( t r

ARGENTINE REPUBLIC-

Bumos Ay7’es.—Society organized.

BRAZIL.
Rio ate _‘7mzeir0.——Society organized.
CU BA.
Havana—Society organized.
MEXICO.

Marita—Society organized.

DOMINICAN REPUBLIC.

San Domingo.——Laws passed and Society organized.

 

 

Uta/i.— Laws passed and State Society organized.
Vermont.—~ “ “ “ “ “ ‘
Viijg‘izzia.—— Ordinances passed and State Society organized...
West Vizjgrinia.— Laws passed and State Society organized.
IVisconsi7i.— “ “ “ “ “ “
TERRITORIES.

Alaska— No laws.
A rizona.— “ “
District of Columbia.——Laws passed an 1 Society organized.
[dalm— No laws.
[ndian.—— “ “
New ﬁlexico.— “ “

’ Wyoming— “ “

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

AGENTS.

List of Agents of The American Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals in the State of New York.

ALBANY CO.

BANKS, ROBERT LENNOX ................................... Albany
BANKS, ROBERT LENNOX, JR .............................. Albany
BURDICK, B. W ............................................... Albany
\ BRUCE, N. H .................................................. Cohoes
BUNDY, HOBART L .......................................... Albany
FORD, WILLIAM T ........................................... Cohoes
JEFFERSON, S. K .......................................... West Troy
STILLMAN, M.D., W. O ................. . .................... Albany
ALLEGHANY CO.
GREENE, MILO B ....................................... Alfred Centre
JORDAN, C. W ............................................. Friendship
WHITE, M. C ............... ' ................................. Rushford
BROOME CO.
WILSON, JOHN M ............................................ Deposit
I CATTARAUGUS CO.

DALLANBAUGH, M.D., CARL W .............................. Olean
GROSS, ARTHUR F ......................................... Randolph
CAYUGA C0.

CLAPP, A. B .............................................. Port Byron
MOULVEY, JOHN ........................................... Auburn
CHAUTAUQUA CO.

BREWER, WILLIAM ........................................ Fredonia
FARRELL, WILLIAM ....................................... Westﬁeld
JENKS, A. FRANK ........................................ Jamestown
CHENANGO C0.

BRYANT, ALMOND R ...................................... Sherburne
ELLSWORTH, DECKER PHILIP .......................... New Berlin
ELLSWORTH, ADDISON .................................. Bainbridge
RORAPAUGH, FREDERICK .................................. Oxford

50

 

 




 

 

    

51

CLINTON CO.

DOW, WARREN ..................... . ................... . . .Plattsburgh

HARTFORD, EDGAR ...................................... Dannémora

WILKINSON, GEORGE C .................................. Keeseville
COLUMBIA CO.

GANTLEY, THOMAS H ...................................... Hudson

LOOMIS, S. N ................................................ Chatham

VAN VOLKINLIGH, C. M ................................ Kinderhook
CORTLAND CO.

BURDICK, JACKSON S ....................................... Homer

MILLER, RICHARD ......................................... Cortland

PERRY, AUGUSTUS S ....................................... Cortland
DELAWARE CO.

HALSTEAD, GEO .......................................... Stamford
WALKER, WALTON H ......... . .......................... Masonville
DUTCHESS CO.

MOITH, A. THEODORE ...................................... Fishkill
ERIE CO.

STOLTING, A. C .............. . ................. . ............ Hamburg
ESSEX CO.

WOODBR‘IDGE, WM. R .................................... Port Henry
FULTON CO.

COLGROVE, WM. H ........................................ Johnstown
ROSSELLE, J. J ........................................... Gloversville
ROOT, ERASTUS ........................................ Gloversville

GENESEE CO. ‘
PALMER, DAMON, M.D ...................................... Batavia
GREENE CO.
BECKER, GARRET ............................. . ........... Greenville
EGNOR, JAMES M ............................................ Catskill
DECKER, ROSCOE ......................................... Prattsville
PARDEE, JAMES B ........................................... Catskill
WILLARD, DR. CHAS. E ...................................... Catskill
HERKIMER CO.
CARR, A. J ...................................................... llion
HALL, H. CLAY ........................................... Little Falls
HILTS, ANDREW ..... Herkimer
JEFFERSON CO.
CRUIKSHANK, MYRON P ................................. Carthage

FISK, RICHMOND. D.D ................................... Watertown

 

 

 

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 




 

 

1 H - W ‘
1 111
1 '
111111 11
*1 2.
1‘1 52
1111 1
1 KINGS CO. 1
1 1 BERNHARDT, E F .......................................... Brooklyn
1‘1 DE NYSE, WM. H ........................................... Brooklyn
“1 DESPARD, WALTER D ................................. Fort Hamilton
DU FLON, CHAS. G ......................................... Brooklyn
GLOVER, ALONZO F ........................................ Brooklyn
GREGG, RICHARD E ................................. East New York
JOHNSTON, GEO. W ........................................ Brooklyn
MCLEAN, I ................................................... Brooklyn
MCLEAN, R. A .......................................... ‘ ..... Brooklyn
RANKIN, J. M., JR .......... . ............................... Brooklyn
SEAMAN, WALLACE. . . . .................................... Brooklyn
VALENTINE, ROBT. B ................................... ‘..Brooklyn
LEWIS CO.
LANG, MOSES ............................................ Copenhagen
LIVINGSTON CO.
FOOSE, CHARLES D .................................. Mount Morris
HILL, HARLIN H ............................................. Dalton
KILLIP, W. W ............................................... Geneseo
MADISON CO.
BARLOW, C. F .............................................. Canastota
BRYANT, HAROLD ........................................ Brookﬁeld
COVELL, JOHN J. ..................................... Morrisville
IRISH, GEORGE W ........................................ Cazenovia
LIPPITT, F. B ................................................ Solsville
MASON, MYRON H ....................... 1. .................... Oneida
SWEET, EDGAR D ......................................... Morrisville
WARREN, JOB D ........................................... De Ruyter
MONTGOMERY CO.
FOX, BROYVNELL C ...................................... Canajoharie
KLINE, CHAS ........................................ ....A1nsterdam
MERENESS, CHAS. W ...................................... Fort Plain
VAN TASSELL, LYMAN .................................. Amsterdam
WHYLAND, JOHN ..................... . ................ St. Johnsville
NEW YORK CO.
'CORNEY, JOHN ............................................ New York
DREW, GEORGE A ................................... . ..... New York
EVANS, ALONZO S ......................................... New York
FLYNN, EDWARD ......................................... New York
'GAY, JOHN H .............................................. New York

JENKINS, E. FELLOWS ............. New York

 

 

 




 

 

   
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
    

53

JEROME, A. G ............................................. New York
LAMBERT, GEORGE H .................................... New York
MARKLE, JOHN 'H .................... ... . . .. . . .. . . . . . .New York
NOBLE. JOHN ............................................. New York
SEYMOUR, DANIEL ....................................... New York
SMART, WILLIAM G ....................................... New York
SNOVVDEN, FORMAN S .................................... New York
YUENGLING, D. (3., JR ..................................... New York
ONEIDA CO.
ASHLEY, THEODORE J ............................. New York Mills
BIELBY, J. P .............................................. Whitestown
BLAIKIE, WM .................................................. Utica
HURLBURT, EDWARD ........................................ Utica
JOYCE, J. HENRY .............................................. Utica
LE\VIS, W. D ......................................... Washington Mills
MCHARG, JOHN B ............................................. Rome
ONONDAGA CO.

KINGSLEY, VICTOR ...................................... Fayetteville
LEECH, MORTIMER ..................................... Fayetteville
ONTARIO CO.

MORGAN, CHAS. B ............................................. Victor
\VARING, ELMER ....................................... Canandaigua
ORANGE CO.

AVERY, WILLIAM ..................................... Highland Falls
MILLS, JAMES J ........................................... Port Jervis
NANNY, HARRISON W ....................................... Goshen
ROSE, CHAS. \Y .............................................. Rocklet
TERVVILLIGER, JUSTUS L ............................... Middletown
\VII.LIAMS, N. H ........................................... Ridgebury
OSWEGO CO.

DINGMAN, EPIIRAIM ....................................... Phoenix
GIBBS, EDWARD E ........................................... Oswego
HYDE, PORTER W ............................................ Fulton
JOYCE, WILLIAM ............................................ Oswego
NEWMAN, E. G ............................................. Hannibal
PENFIELD, W. H. . .2 ........................................ Mexico
POOLE, THOS. G .............................................. Fulton
PARMITER, AMBROSE R ..................................... Fulton
OTSEGO CO.

DULEY, M. W ................................................ Unadilla

ENTLER, G. F.. ............................................. Oneonta

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

     

54

FAY, PARKER D .................................... Richﬁeld Springs
LATHROP, CHARLES MCHARG ......................... Cooperstown
SITTS, JOHN H ...................................... Richﬁeld Springs
PUTNAM CO.
MCCULLUM, THOMAS DUANE .......................... Cold Spring
QUEENS C0.
BOSWORTH, W. N ......................................... Glen Cove
BROWNE, JESSE, JR .......................................... Jamaica
BRUST, AUG. C .............................................. Maspeth ,
BUHLER, JOHN ..................................... North Hempstead
BUSCH, ADAM ............................................ Woodhaven
CRAFT, WM. A ................................................ Roslyn
DENLEY, JOHN ........................................... Great Neck
HAGGERTY, JOHN P ............................... Winﬁeld Junction
HENRY, ARMSTEAD G .............................. Long Island City
HARGROVE, JOS. H ......................................... Blissville
LOSEE, HORATIO .......................................... Glen Cove
MYERS, JOHN V ............................................. Maspeth
OLDENBERG, HERMAN .................................... Lawrence
SCHOLLE, THEODORE ...................................... Winﬁeld
STINES, ALBERT .......................................... Newtown
TITUS, HENRY P ............................................. Astoria
VAN WAGNER, WM .................................... Locust Valley
WALSH, JOHN C ....................................... Far Rockaway
WAY, CHAS. F ...... . .................................. Middle Village
RENSSELAER CO.
CLINT, DE WITT.. ............................................ Troy
CURTIS, LAWRENCE C .................................... Castleton
DALTON, R. P ................................................ Hoosick
JONES, W. FRANK ..................................... Lansingburgh
LANE, LE ROY C ................................................ Troy
STEVENS, A. L .......................................... Lansingburgh
RICHMOND CO.
BRADY, PHILIP ............................................. Stapleton
CROWLEY, WM. J ................... . .................. Tompkinsville
DUNTON, A. F. ........................................ \Vest Brighton
MATHESON, JAMES C.. . . . . . ..‘ .......................... Green Ridge
RICARD, WM. L ....................................... Port Richmond
SMITH, WM. W ............................................ Rosebank

SOFIELD, WESLEY ..................................... Linoleumville

 




 

 

   
  

55

ROCKLAND CO.

CALL, JAMES ............................................. Haverstraw
SPRINGSTEEN, LEONARD ................................... Suffren
SARATOGA CO.

GILBERT, D. S ........................................ Saratoga Springs
NUGENT, D. F.. . . .. . . .. . . ................................ Waterford
RICE, GEO. A ........ - ................................... Mechanicsville
TUPPER, E. ESt1llwater
TRASK, SPENCER...........................................Saratoga
VVOODWORTH, H. J. . . . . . . .......................... Mechanicsville
SCHOHARIE CO.

BECKER, W. H ................................................. Gilboa
SCHUYLER CO.

ROGERS, ROBERT P .......................................... Burdett
SENECA CO.

BAKER, ARTHUR S ...................................... Seneca Falls
BALDWIN, CHAS ......................................... Seneca Falls
STEUBEN CO.

BURKE, THOMAS W ......................................... Addison
DUDLEY, J. C ................................................... Bath
HAFFNER, AUGUSTUS ............................... Hammondsport
MCMAHON, J. S ......................................... Hornellsville
PRATT, JARED ............................................... Corning

- SUFFOLK CO.
ANDERSON, THOS. S. W ................................. Stony Brook
BLYDENBURGH, WM. P ................................... Bay Shore
BEDELL, I. H ........................................... ’ ...... Sayville
COLLINS, JOHN G ...................................... East Hampton
HOVVARTH, GEO. A ..................................... Green Lawn
HALLOCK, HENRY W ................................. ,_ ....... Quogue
JAYNE, JOSEPH W ......................................... Bay Shore
LA GUIRE, EDMUND .................................... Sag Harbor
MULFORD, HENRY D ...................................... Northport
MORISON, GEO. W ..................................... Ronkonkoma
NEWTON, WM. E .......................................... Smithtown
PARKER, A. J ................... .. ........................ Port Jefferson
PENNEY, ROBT. W .......................................... Flanders
SHADBOLT, H. C .......................................... Huntington
SUYDAM, WALTER I ....................................... Blue Point
SMITH, CHAS. F ........................................... Cutchogue

SQUIRES, EDWD. N ..................................... Good Ground

 

 




   
  

57

 

STEVENS, CHAS. S ........................................ Portchester
TAYLOR, ROYAL E ......................................... Peekskill
TAYLOR, ROBT., M.D .................................. Mount Vernon
TURNER, S. J .............................................. Peekskill
VAN TASSELL, HIRAM .............................. North Tarrytown
WETHERBY, HENRY .................................... Mount Kisco
WOODARD, BARNETT ................................. Mount Vernon
WYOMING CO.
BOUGHTON, JOHN M ......................................... Perry
YATES CO.
ALMY, JAMES E ............................................. Dundee
BASKIN, ROBT ............................................... Dundee
MCLAUGHLIN, AMOS ..................................... Penn Yan

PECK, MARTIN W. . . . . . .. ................................. Middlesex

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

LIFE MEMBERS.

 

 

 

 

The" Payment of One Hundred Dollars or more by atgentleman, or Fifty
Dollars or more by a lady, at one time, secures a Life Membership.

A.

Anderson, Mrs. E. M.

Andrews, C. A.
Andrews, Mrs. B. L.
Arnold, Wm.

Astor, Wm. Waldorf
Avery, Samuel P.

B.

Beadleston, Wm. H.
Bell, Mrs. Geo.
Bergh, Henry
Bonner, Robert
Booth, Edwin
Boyd, J. Gilmore
Brown, Louis B.

Busteed, Richard, Jr.

C.

Campbell, A. H.
Claﬂin, Arthur B':
Claﬂin, John
Claﬂin, Mrs. H. B.
Clews, Henry
Clausen, Henry
Crapo, John M.

D.

Daly, Henry F.
Daly, Mrs. Henry F.

Darrigrand, Mrs. F.

DeWitt, Geo. G., Jr.
Dickinson, Mrs. H. A.

Dilks, Geo. W.

Dockstader, Geo. A.

Dodge, Mrs. Chas. Cleveland
Dodge, Norman W.

Draper, Mrs. Henry

E.

Ehret, George
Eichler, John
Ewen, Miss. C. G.

F.

Faber, Gustavus W.
Faber, Mrs. Angelica B.
Fellows, Jerome B.
Fish, Hamilton

Foster, James

G.

Gebhard, Wm. H.
Gerry, Hon. Elbridge T.
Gilbert, F. E.

Gray, Horace
Groesbeck, David
Gudewill, George
Gunning, Wm. J.
Gunther, Fredk. T.

58

 

 

 




 

 

    

H.

Hadden, John A.
Haines, John. P.
Hamilton, John L.
Hammond, E. A.
Hicks, Benj. D.
Hoffman, Mrs. John T.
Hoe, Robert, Jr.

Holt, Mrs. Francis Elliott
Holt, Geo. B.

Homans, E. C.
Howard, Bronson
Howard, Mrs. Alice
Hunt, Miss Nannie A.

I.

Ingersoll, Mrs. James H.
Iselin, Miss Emilie E.

J.

Jaffray, Edward S.
James, Mrs. John S.
Jesup, Morris K.
Johnston, John Taylor

Johnston, J. Boorman
Jones, John D.

K.

Kemp, Edward
Kemp, George
Kohlsaat, John W.
Kraus, Miss Emma

L.

Lane, Mrs. Francis
Lanier, Charles
Lee, Miss Alleine
Lietard, A. F.
Livingston, Robt. J.
Low, Joseph T

 

59

M.

McLean, Geo. W.
Marie, Peter

Marsh, John Edward
Marshall, Chas. H.
Matthews, Edward
Millbank, Mrs. Jeremiah
Millbank, Mrs. Joseph
Moffat, Miss Myra
Morgan, Miss Middie
Morrill, Rev. C. W.
Morss, Mrs. M. T.
Mott, J. L

Moulton, Mrs. F. A.
Moulton, Miss Eliza
Murray, John B.

O.

O’Gorman, Hon. Richard
O’Brien, \Villiam

Olcott, F. P.

Oothout, William
Osborne, Wm. H.
Osgood, Mrs. S. R.

P.

Packer, Daniel
Pell, Mrs. Mary
Post, Edwin A.
Pyne, Mrs. Percy R.

R.

Remsen, Robert G.
Reusens, G.
Richardson, G. C.
Rudd, Joseph
Ruppert, Jacob
Russell, Hon. Horace

S.

Sanford, Milton H.
Schaefer, Frederick

 

 

 

 

 
 
  
 
  
 
 
  




60

Scharmann, H. B. Van Rensselaer, Killian
Schermerhorn, Wm. C. Van Tassel, Emery M.
Seney,“Geo. 1. Van Tassel, Miss Ada
Sherman, Wm. Watts

Stevens, Fred’k W. W-

St' ht M .A 1:
1c , I‘S ugus a Wagstaff, HOD. Alfred

Stokes James, Jr.
Stuyvesant, Mrs. E. T. E. Watson, GGO- H-

' ) Webb Wm H.
Suckley, Robt. l). , -
Suekley, Rutsen Weston, Mrs- R- W-

; Wheeler, Miss Laura
S‘Vezey’ Mary L' White, Mrs. C. E.
T. Winslow, Edward
Winthrop, Benj. R.
Tiffany, Chas. L. Wolff, Agnes H.
Tuck, Edward Wood, Chas. B.
VVyman, John H.

Y.

 

 

 

V.

Vanderbilt, Mrs. F. W.
Van Kirk, Miss Lila Yuengling, David G., Jr;

 

 




MEMBERS.

The annual membership subscription is ten dollars for a gentleman,

or ﬁve dollars for a lady.

A.

Abbott, W. G.
Abendroth, Wm. P.
Abraham, A.
Ackerman, E. W.
Adams, Mrs. A. 0.
Adams, Mrs.
Adams, Henry H.
Ahrens, Diederich J.
Ahrens, Martin J.
Allen, H. F.
Appleton, Wm. H.
Appleton, W. W.
Arnheim, Louis
Arnold, Miss C. B.
Aron, A. .

Avery, Mrs. S. P.
Ayer, Fred’k F.

B.

Bachmann, Frederick
Baird, A. D.

Baldwin, Mrs. T. Burnett
Baldwin, C. C.

Banyer, Goldsboro
Bartlett, E. B

Barker, Miss Isabel R.
Barlow, Mrs. Frances C.
Barnum, Hon. P. T.
Battermann, H.
Battermann, Mrs. W.

Battersby, Mrs. A. H.
Beers, Edwin

Belford, \Vm. J.

Berau, Henry
Berghaus, Mrs. Anna
Bernheimer, Simon E.
Berns, Geo. H.

Beyer, John'A.
Bigelow, Mrs. Poultney
Blake, Peter

Bowne, Mrs. Philip H.
Bradley, Geo. C.
Bradley, John J.
Bremmer, Mrs. Alexander
Britton, Joseph

Brown, W. A. A.
Brown, Mrs. Walston H.
Brown, Walston H.
Brunnemer, Frederick
Buckley, Mrs. O. K.
Bullinger, Mrs. E. T.
Burr, W. H.

Byers, Joseph J.

C.

Cadwell, Mrs. S. N.
Campbell, Alexander
Canty, Daniel

Cary, Mrs. W. F.
Carscallen, Mrs. J. D.
Cassidy, John
Chisolm, Benj. O.

61

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

Choate, Joseph H.
Christensen, Gen. C. T.
Clausen, Chas. C.
Close, S. B.

Cody, Richard J.

Cody, Hon. Wm. F.
Cohen, Solomon L.
Comins, Chas. W,
Conover, Stephen G.
Cooper, Chas. W.
Corbett, C. H.

Coudert, Frederic R.
Coulton, Mrs. Lucy T.
Coutts, Mrs. G. H.
Cowdin, Mrs. Elliott
COX, Smith

Cox, Miss Grace

Coyle, Miss J. Antoinette
Cramer, L. H.
Crimmins, Thos E.
Crossmond, Mrs. L. D.
Cruger, Mrs. Blanche E.
Curtis, Mrs. G. W.
Curtis, Miss E. B.
Curtiss, Miss Sophia

D.

Dalley, Henry, Jr.
Darrigrand, Alexander A.
Darrigrand, Miss Fannie
Davidson, Miss C.
Dawes, Mrs. Martha S.
Dehon, Miss M.
Degerlach, Alexander
De]onge, Louis

De La Vergne, John C.
Derringer, Clarence

De Ruiz, Mrs. P. B.

De Witt, Jr., Mrs. Geo. G.

De Witt, Wm. G.
Dix, Rev. Morgan
Dodge, Wm. E.
Doelger, Peter
Doelger, Jacob

 

62

Doody, D. F.
Doscher, Claus
Douglass, Mrs. Byron
Dowd, Timothy
Draper, Mrs. Jno. H.
Ducker, Wm. M.
Duryea, Mrs. S. B.
Duryea, S. B.

E.

Earle, Ferd. P.
Ebling, Philip
Eckstein, Monroe
Ehrlich, Edward
Elder, Mrs. Geo. W.
Elkins, Miss Ida
Elliott, Henry
Engeman, Wm. A.
Engeman, Geo. H.
Englis, Chas.
Ensign, Herman L.
Eppelsheimer, Henry

F.

Fahnestock, Wm.
Fairbanks, Mrs. L.
Fairchild, Mrs. A. V.
Fallert, Joseph

Felt, Mrs. Edwin M.
Ficken, C.

Finck, Andrew
Flegenhiemer, Henry
Flint, Mrs. C. R.
Flores, Miss Elvira
Fontenilliat, Mrs. Julia de
Fortuna, Miss Emma
Foulke, Mrs. Frank
Frankenberg, D.
Frauenstein, Dr. G.
Freel, Edward
Frese, Charles

Fries, Frederick
Froehlich, Joseph J-

 

 




 

 

 

TREASURER’S REPORT.

NEW YORK, January 1, 1891.

7T0 Tﬁe American Social)» for Me Prezvmz’z'mz of Crag/{y [0

Animals.-

The Treasurer begs leave to report that the balance brought
«over December 31, 1889, was $12,305.53. The receipts from all
“sources during thegyear ending December 31, 1890, were $86,-
:'028.o3, making a total of $98,333.56. The sum expended and
invested during the year was $74,055.18, leaving a balance of
$24,278.38. The following ﬁnancial statement will show the
sources whence the revenue has been derived, and also the
accounts under which its funds have been disbursed during the

above-mentioned period.
Respectfully submitted,
CHARLES LANIER,

Treasurer.

14

--~~__.,,-,___._ .
“MM—w . -m ‘uﬂm. .._._.. w“ ,,

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

IC- 1"-.1

a..-~‘_. -.——_
-A .
M

I1
.
_
m
_

 




W

‘2'»!
u

 

4-1,; Inn

Ilumun

I'

1,771” ~;?'/ f”
5-4” / :x’
”9,32% ~92” m «2:37; »= 1:,
”1"" y [’14 {/1337 I’ll/1 '///€~
””'l «x, 7,1325%,5» ’/-’/ :7 W
'1. ”/ 1:.qu 721,7,x/

“I“
um

will!“

6

0

m
b
(D
.4
n

p

O
(I)
_.{
I)
m
m
_—1
Z
2
.<
O
I)
.x

 

...__-~.—_—_
[’7]. ’27:. .172: .

,,. ”av/ll,

MIA.
’2’," "cl/{251: ,/ 571.777,,
’.,/u ,1!

”1'7

r// z:

[ivy/{I/
’ ,4

, /’

 




 

 

 

 

8

Institution in enforcing the laws for the protection of animals.
Many of these Organizations of late years have existed only in
name, having failed, owing to a need of funds, or lack of energy
on the part of those entrusted with their management. Believing
it would infuse new life and inspire others to keep the good work
moving, it was deemed advisable to revoke all such appointments,
and, to meet that emergency, a law was enacted by the Legisla-
ture, with the advice and concurrence of our Board of Managers,
giving authority to organize Societies independent of the Parent
Organization.

The proceedings taken in. the matter will be found in the report
of the Executive Committee. ,

A new ambulance has been purchased for the removal of
injured and homeless small animals, so that requests sent to
headquarters. for assistance in such cases can be more readily
complied with than heretofore. The recognized value of this
improvement makes it very desirable that this Society should
have what may be appropriately termed a “ Shelter for Homeless
Animals,” where dogs, cats, and other animals can receive such
attention as their forlorn condition may require.

In conclusion, permit me to .say that during the past year a
large number of new members have been received; still, this
Society should have a list of patrons largely exceeding its present
honorable enrollment. To further this laudable purpose, I ear-
nestly request your co-operation with me in inviting all friends
of the cause to join with us in the noble work of humanity to
«God’s speechless creatures.

JOHN P. HAINES,

President
New York, December 3 r, 1890.

 

 




 

 

 

 

22

Owing to the new method adopted, the ambulances are always
ready to respond to a call for their services, day or night. Twelve
horses were rescued from drowning, six horses and two cows from
excavations into which they had accidentally fallen, by the use of-
the Society’s life—saving derrick.

NEW AMBULANCE FOR CARRYING SMALL ANIMALS.

The vehicle is intended for the careful transportation, to the
Society’s Ambulance House, of injured, sick, or otherwise disabled
small animals which are past recovery.

It has two compartments, and is also provided with baskets
designed expressly for carrying animals. They are of various
sizes, and are suitable for the reception of dogs, cats, birds, etc.
Heretofore such animals were brought to headquarters in bags,
boxes, and other crude ways, which suggested to the mind of
President Haines the necessity for a better and more humane way
of conveyance. It will hold from thirty to forty animals com—
fortably, and will be sent to any address within the limits of the-
county for such cases of distress as mentioned above.

LOCAL AGENTS.

Reports from local agents outside of this county have been
very encouraging. Many of them reporting that, the mere fact of
their having the necessary authority to enforce the laws against
cruelty, has been sufficient to deter those cruelly inclined from
abusing or neglecting to properly care for their animals.

BROOKLYN.

The Brooklyn department of our work has been most efﬁcient
in the discharge of the many onerous duties pertaining thereto,
considering the small force of ofﬁcers engaged there.

A FEW PHASES OF THE WORK.

There are features of the work which doubtless appear to the
casual observer as matters of small moment, but to the patient
much, as the following few brief instances will show :

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

prril 16.

28

A dog—ﬁght came off in a sporting resort known as the Sea Side
Pavilion, at Fort Hamilton, kept by one John Nappier. While the
ﬁght was in progress the look—out discovered the approach of the
Society’s ofﬁcers, and gave the alarm. The gang, in their fright and
eagerness to avoid arrest, burst through windows and doors, and
sought safety in boats and other conveyances. A majority of them
were known, however, and the following were subsequently arrested

and convicted :

Wm. Gormely, John Clancy,
James Martin, Martin Short,
John Masterson, Alfred Stenson,
John Gleason, Thos. Walsh,

John Mahon, Chas. Mahon,
Patrick McMahon, Edward McCrossen,
Simeon Flaherty, Pat. Mullins,

“ Shorty ” Delaney, Pat. Cahill,

Edward Short, John Zimmer.

On the plea of guilty of being present at the ﬁght, each was ﬁned

ten dollars by Judge Church.
John Nappier, the proprietor of the premises, was ﬁned ten dollars
on his plea of guilty to having allowed the ﬁght to take place in the

building.

April I7. Chas. Kerr : “ I beat the horse because he could not get along fast

enough.” said this offender, when charged with cruelly beating a
miserable—looking horse on the head with an iron shovel. Fined ﬁve
dollars by Court of Special Sessions.

April I7. Henry Latten. This defendant was driving a horse suffering from

May I.

May 3.

May 6.

a dreadful sore on the top of the neck, into which the collar was
rubbing. “I did n’t think it hurt the horse any,” he replied,
when questioned by the magistrate. Fined twenty dollars by Judge
Casey.

Henry Hertzog, for overdriving a horse attached to a loaded wagon.

The animal was suffering at the time from a sore 3 x 2 inches on
the back under the saddle ; also on the breast, I x 1% inches, chafed

by the collar. Fined ten dollars by Judge Casey.

John Hash and Peter Dunn, kicking and choking a ﬁve—weeks old
calf. Fined ﬁve dollars by Court of Special Sessions.

Henry Ruttner. This defendant was driving a horse at a rapid
rate, and at the same time beating the animal with the reins, upon
the end of which was a large iron buckle. Fined ﬁve dollars by

Judge Walsh.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

PUBLICATIONS.

 

“OUR ANIMAL FRIENDS.”

This Journal, published under the auspices of the Society, is
now in the eighteenth year of its existence. During its publica-
tion it has steadily kept in View the cause it advocates, and in
its columns the more important proceedings of the Society have
been given to the public. Short stories, sketches, and other in—
teresting miscellany, appropriate to the character of the paper.
have tended largely to increase its circulation, and make it valu-
able as a household journal. ‘

Annual subscriptions for the paper, ONE DOLLAR.

Ofﬁce of Publication, 30 Great Jones Street, New York City,
Geo. Will Johnston, Editor.

36'

 




I I?

I 91
I II:

 

 

 

4o

 

Quincy.
C. H. WILLIAMSON, President. I LYMAN MCCARL, Secretary.
Roo/efora’.
W. H. FITCH, President. I NELLIE T. REID, Secretary.
INDIANA.
Indianapolis.
HON. C. S. DENNIS, President. I WM. H. HOBBS, Secretary.
Aurora.
D. LOSTETTER, President. I W. S. HOLMAN, JR., Secretary.
Anderson.
H. J. BLACKLIDGE, President. | SIDNEY STUART, Secretary.
Bloomz'ngz‘on.
REV. S. R. LYONS, President. I J. K. BECK, Secretary.
Crawfordsvz'lle.
D. HARTER, President. I A. H. BRADEN, Secretary.
Connorsvz'Z/o.
D. E. HUNTER, President. ' I SCOTT MUCHNER, Secretary.
Crown Point.
REV. T. A. BALL, President. I T. A. MUZZAL, Secretary.
Dolaz'.

R. A. WASON, President.

Evansville.

S. S. SCATLIN, President. I WILL WARREN, Secretary.

Fort Wayne.
CHAS. MCCULLOCH, President. I Dr. A. T. MCOSCAR, Secretary,

Frankforz‘.

JOHN BARMER, President. I J. D. WIRT, Secretary.
Faz'rrnont.

W. C. WINSLOW, President. I R. C. SMALL, Secretary.
Greensonrg.

CHAS. KEMBLE, President. I R. S. FORSYTH, Secretary.

I R. S. HIGENBORHAM. Secretary.

rd;- ***********

 




  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
   
  
   
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

KINDRED SOCIETIES.

The following list shows the location of kindred organizations-
in North and South America in correspondence with the Parent.

 

Socrety.
Alaéa77za.——- Laws passed and State Society organized.
A7'/’(l7¢5(lS‘~——— “ H H H u u
i v R ,
i - , ' (c 5‘ H ‘ ‘ “ “
1 Caszm ma.— _ _
’ _ H H (( c c r ‘ u
1 C0107 ado.
Connecticut. —— u c . u i. .. H

Dela wart. —

Florida.— Ordinances passed and State Society organized.
Georgz'a.—— Laws passed and State Society organized.
[[[ZIﬂOZ'S‘ u (( (t u (‘ u
fndiana.— Laws passed.

1 Keniuc/ey.— Laws passed and State Society organized.

! 1 Louisiana.— Laws passed.
1Waz'ne.—— Laws passed and State Society organized.
Maryland __ u (c H L‘ H u
MassachuseZZ5.-— “ “ “ “ “ “

; MiC/ll'g'aﬂ.— u u u H u. u

‘ fV/innc’soz‘a ‘_ u n H H H H
leiSSZ'Sé‘Z'pﬂL— t‘ (t u u u H
Missouri__ 1. u u. u u H
Nebras/ea— H u u u u u

g . Nevada.—— Laws passed.

New Hampﬂzira—Laws passed and State Society organized.

(‘ “ (t (I (‘ H

A7671?! 7€rsey.—

New Y07’/e.——— “ “ H u u N
North Carolina.— “ “ “ H H u
O/lZO.—- “ “ “ H H u
07’6g0n.— “ “ H H u u
Pennsylvania. — ‘ “ ‘ ‘ ‘ ‘ u u

RhOde [S[a%d_ “ “ “ “ (‘ “
South Carolina.— .
t‘ “ “ “ .‘ “

Tennessee.—
Texas.— Laws passed.

 

 

 




 

 

J : 56
W
El ll TOTTEN, JOHN c.. . ............................. Cold Spring Harbor
j1 m H} TRAIN, CHAS. W... . . . ..................................... Yaphank
TERRY, HENRY ......................................... Southampton
VAIL, A. R ................................................... Southold
WELLS, GEO. B ........................................ Baiting Hollow
WOOD, JOHN T... .......................................... Babylon
YOUNG, DANIEL A ........................................ Jamesport
SULLIVAN CO.
DECKER, A. A ........................................... Mountainville
SCHENECTADY CO.
BARRETT, WM. J ......................................... Schenectady
T’OMPKINS CO.
MARSH, FREDERICK] ....................................... Ithaca
ULSTER CO.
ELLSVVOR'l‘I—I, ELIJAH ...................................... Kingston
OSTRANDER, DE WITT W ................................ Clintondale
WARREN CO.
BEVINS, G. H ............. . ............................... Chestertown
HARRIS, E. S ............................................. Lake George
WASHINGTON CO.
ARCHER, J. H ............................................. Cambridge
CORNELL, H. K ............................................ Greenwich
FARLEY, JOHN M ....................................... Fort Edward
MICKLE, JAMES .......................... ' ............... F ort Edward
MCFARLAND, W. M ............ . ................................ Salem
SCOTT, GEO. H ............................................. Whitehall
WATERS, HENRY J ........................................ Whitehall
WAYNE CO.
AGETT, WILLIAM W .......................................... Lyons

COLLINS, JEREMIAH ......................... . ................ Lyons
WESTCHESTER CO.

BUSHELL, T HOS. J .................................... Cornell Station
BRADLEY, ANDREW ..................................... \Vestchester
BROVVNE, THOMAS J .................................... Dobbs Ferry
DEARMAN, JUSTUS ....................................... Tarrytown
GARNJOST, FERDINAND .................................... Yonkers
GRAHAM, SAMUEL H ............................................ Rye
HALL, JAMES A .................................. Irvington-on-Hudson
MOTT, G. W ........................................... Mount Vernon
REDMOND, JOHN ..................................... New Rochelle

SHUTE, WM. L ......................................... Mount Vernon

 

 

 

 

   




 

 

   

 

G.

Gager, Mrs. O. A.
Gallatin, Frederick
Gaus, John L.
Gatter, Miss E. A.
Gatter, Miss Georgia
Gibb, John

Gibbins, Francis J.
Gilbert, Clinton
Godwin, Parke
Gregory, Dudley S.
Gregory, Mrs.. Dudley S.
Gregory, Louis
Grodjiuski, B. V.
Gunther, Henry

H.

Haffen, John

Hagerty, M. H.

Haight, Mrs. D. H.
Hamilton, Henry
Hanshew, Elisha, Jr.
Harris, Isaac

Harrison, Mrs. Mary L.
Hart, Charles

Haven, Geo. G.
Haviland, S. W.

Hecht, Aaron

Heins, Jno. L.
Henderson, Mrs. Hariette
Henderson, Mrs. Charles
Hendricks, Charles
Henriques, C. A.
Hentschel, Charles
Hentz, Henry
Herseman. W. F.
Higgins, Charles S.

Hill, Warren E.

Hines, Mrs. Wm. E.
Hinrichs, C. F. A.
Hinton, Miss H. M.
Hitchcock, Miss F. A.
Hoey, John

63

Hoff, Chas. A.
Hoffmann, Jacob
Hogan, Chas. W.
Hogan, Timothy
Holbrook, I. E.
Holland, P.

Hollins, Mrs. H. B.
Holmes, Mrs. J. W.
Holz, Bernard
Hopkins, Woolsey R.

Hopkinson, Miss Jennie M.

Horrmann, August
Horton, James M.
Huber, Otto
Humphrey, James
Hunter, Dr. James B.
Huntington, A. M.
Hupfel, J. C. G.

I.

Ibert, Frank

Ingersoll, Robt. G.
Ingersoll, Mrs. Robt. G.
Ingersoll, Miss Maud
Ingraham, Mrs. B. F.
Inglis, J. S.

Iselin, Oliver C.

J.

Jenkins, J. G.

Jewel, Geo S.
Johnson, Dr. S. K.
Johnson, J. G.
Johnson, Mrs. Mary
Jones, Geo. H.

Jones, Mrs. F. R.
Jones, Mrs. Geo. Floyd
Jurgens, W. B. A.

K.

Keller, George
Kellogg, Miss E. H.

    
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

Kendall, Miss S. R.
Kendall, Miss Georgiana
Kendall, Wm. B.
Kent, Geo. H.

Kiefer, Henry
Kimball, R. J.
Kingman, Martin E.
Knapp, Miss M. M.
Knapp, John M.
Knobel, Mrs. Emma
Knowlton, E. F.
Korbay, Mrs. Francis
Koster, C.

Kraus, Benjamin
Kuenzli, Dr. Albert

L.

Laimbeer, Richard Mott
Laimbeer, W. E.

‘Langdon, Miss Anne L.

Leavy, Bernard
Leggett, Francis H.
Levy, Aaron

Levy, Isaac

Lewis, Mrs. Jennie
Leslie, Miss Gertrude
Liebman, Joseph
Liebmann, Charles
Lindsay, John J.
Lipsius, Mrs. Claus

Livingston, Miss Annie L.

Lockman, Jacob K.
Lockman, John T.
Lockwood, John E.
Locwi, Edgar

Loton, Mrs. T.

Low, Abiel A.

Low, Josiah 0.

Low, Hon. Seth

Low, Mrs. Seth
Lowell, Mrs. C R.
Lowell, Miss C. Russell
Lowery, Mrs. John A.
Lyall, David C.
Lyman, E. H. R.

64

     
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
   

M.

McBride, R. P.
McCarkell, Dr. J. A.
McFarlan, Mrs. Edward
McGahie, John

McGarran, Mrs. Alexander H.

McGee, James
McKane, John Y.
McLaughlin, Mrs. A.
McLean, Mrs. Chas. F.
McWilliams, D. W.
Mackenzie, John
Mackenzie, Miss L.
Mackenzie, Miss M.
Mackenzie, William
Mackay, Robt.
Mallory, Henry R.
Marks, Selim
Marshall, Miss C. E.
Maverick, Mrs. Brewster
Maxwell,J R. ,
Maxwell, Henry W.
Mayer, David
'May, Moses

Merritt, Miss E. R.
Meserole, Alfred V.
Meyer, Henry
Minturn, Hugh
Minturn, Miss S. S.
Minturn, Miss Mildred
Minck, Henry

Mogk, William
Moller, Mrs. S. A.
Monahan, Thomas
Morton, Hon. Levi P.
Munch, Ferdinand
Musgrave, Mrs. T. B.
Mustoe, J. F.

Myers, Geo. L.

N.

Neidlinger, Adam
Nelson, Mrs. Wm. H.

Noble, Mrs. Robt. J.
Nobs, Mrs. M. Madelaine

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

O.

Ochs, Ernst
Olcott, Geo. Mﬁ
Opperman, F.
Orr, John C.
Orvis, F. H.
Otten, Mrs. Fred’k
P.
Palmer, Ernest, M.D.
Parke, Jr., Joseph
Parish, James C.
Parson, Wm. H.
Pearsall, Mrs. F. E.
Pell, J. H.
Pell, Mrs. J. H
Plageman, L. V.
Plate, Carsten
Polhemus, H. D.
Pomeroy, Mrs. H. K.
Pope, N. Q.
Pratt, Charles
Pratt, Mrs. J.‘T.
Prout, Mrs. J. S.

Q.
Quinn, T. S.

R.

Rader, Gustavus W.
Redding, Mrs. Josephine
Reed, James C.
Reeves, Madam Marie
Renault, Louis
Renault, Miss Lizzie
Reynolds, C. H.
Richardson, William
Robertson, Thos. S.
Rogers, Mrs. Chas. E.
Roosevelt, J. A.
Rouss, C. Broadway
Rowland, Thos. F.
Rutter, Mrs. J. F.

65

S.

Sanford, Mrs C. S.
Schell, Edward
Schmadeke, John F.
Schmidt, George
Schrader, George
Schultz, Carl H.
Schurz, Miss Marianne
Seccomb, E. A.
Seccomb, Mrs. E. A.
Shaw, Mrs. Francis G.
Shearman, Thos. G.
Sheldon, Miss Anna E.
Sheldon, Mrs. Henry K.
Shepard, Mrs. F. N.
Shepherd, A. W., M.D.
Shotwell, H. T.

Shults, John H.

Silver, Mrs. C. A.

Skene, Dr. Alexander J. C.
Skene, Mrs. Alexander J. C.

Slocum, Henry W., Jr.,
Smith, Charles A.
Smith, H. A.

Smith, W. H.

Spencer, Mrs. Lorrilard, Jr.

Spies, Adam W.
Squire, Newton R.
Stanton, Mrs. John
Stark, Philip
Stein, A. M.

Stein, Conrad
Sterling, Theo. W.
Stern, Benjamin
Stewart, David
Stillman, Thos. E.
Stokes, Anson P.
Stone, Edwin
Story, J. T.
Strauss, Mrs. Jacob
Strauss, Samuel
Sutro, Mrs. Theo.
Sutton, Benj. F.
Sweeney, P. B.

    
   
   
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  
   
  
  
 
  
  
   
  
  
   
   
  
    

 

 




 

 

 

 

T.

Tampke, Mrs. Henry
Tappenbeck, F. W.
Taylor, Mrs. Emily
Taylor, Thos. F.

Taylor, W. R.

Thomas, Miss M. L.
Thouron, Mrs. E, A.
Tillotson, Mrs. Luther G.
Toedteberg, Miss Emma
Toppan, Lieut. F. W.
Trask, Spencer

Tucker, Miss M. B.
Tuttle, Miss E.

U.
Ulmer, William
V.

Van Allen, G. W.

Van Buren, Mrs. H. M.
Vanderbilt, Frederick W.
Van Iderstine, F. A.

Van Ingen, Mrs. E. H.
Van Ness, J. Newton

Van Orden, Miss Mary L.

Vermilye, Jacob D
Vogt, Henry
Voislausky, Selig P.

W.

Wade, W. D.
Wallace, Mrs. C D.
Ward, Mrs. Raymond W.

66

_ Welz, John

     
     
   
    
     
 
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 

Waters, E.
Webb, H. Walter
Weil, M.

Wendell, Mrs. Gordon
Westernacher, Mrs P.
Weston, Miss Emily J.
Whalen, Richard
Wharton, E. R.
Wheatleigh, Mrs. Chas.
White, A. M.
White, S. V.
Whitewright, William
Wicke, William
Wilkins, Morris
Williams, R. C.
Wilson, C. H.
Wilson, Genl. James G.
Wischmann, H.
Wissel, A.
Wood, Mrs Duncan
Wood, Mrs. H. G.
Wooster, G. H.
Wooster, Mrs. G. H.
Wolverton, W. H.
Work, James Henry
Work, Mrs. James Henry
\Vriglit, Harriet
Wyckoff, Peter
Wyeth, Dr. J. A.
Wyeth, Mrs. J. A.

 

 

Z.

Zeltner, Henry

 




 

 

 

  

A.

Achelis, F. . . .
Ackerman, Chas. F. .
Acker, Me11all, 81 Condit.

Anderson Mrs. E. Milbank .

Anonymous .
Arnold & Constable

B.

Baeder, Adamson, & Co.
Barlow, Mrs. Francis C.
Barnes, Rich’d H. .
Baylis, A. B. . .
Beadleston & Woerz.
Behr, H., & Co.
Beyers, Geo. H. .
Blauvelt &' Co.

Bolen & Byrne

Bossert, Louis .
Brooklyn City R. ..R C<1
Brooks, Geo. W. . .
Buchenberger, F. A.
Budweiser Brewing C o.
Bunce, John .

Burger & How e1.Brewing Co:

Burnett, S. O.
Burnham, L. S.

C.

Cabble, Elijah .
Campbell, Geo. W.
Canﬁeld, H. Y. .
Carson, Henry . .
Cash, M1s. A. E. B.
Cash, H. L. M..
Chlome Steel Works
Cooper, T. S., & Sons .
Covert, George .
Cowperthwait & Co.
Coster, C. H. .
Cross, Austin, & Co. .
Cross, Joseph A. ,&Co.

 

DONA'l IONS SRECEIVED DURING

YEAR 1890.

$5

5
IO
75
IO

5

H

to
mmOmOmanmmmm OUIU1U1U1U\

1—4

H

mmmmmmmm Ommmcn

00
OO
00
00
OO
00

OO
00
00
OO
00
00
OO
00
00
OO
00
OO
00
OO
00
00
00
OO

00
00
OO
00
OO
00
OO
00
OO
00
00
OO
00

 

D.

Dahn, John A.

Daly. Henry F. .
Dannat & Pell
Delaﬁeld, Maturin 1.. .
De Ruiz, Mrs. P. B.
Dickey, Chas. D.
Dockstader, Geo. A.
Dodge, Rich’d J.
Dowst, John A. . .
‘Dunham, Miss H. V. .

E .

Ellis, Geo. B. . .
Ennis, Thos. , 8; Sons .

F.

Felt, Mrs. Edwin M.. .
Feigenspan, G.

Fink, John

Flint, Mrs. Kate S.
Ford, James B. . .
Frothingham, J W.
Fulton, Dr. John

G.

Gleason, E. l’., Mfg. Co.

Goodridge, Mrs. Frederic

Grahlfs, Herman
Greason & Howland
Grenzig, Miss Lena
Grenzig, August .

H.

Ham, Jas. M. .
Hardy, Voo1l1ees, &Co.
Harrison, William H.
Harris, Geo. S. . .
Hawk & Wetherby .
Hawley, Miss Jessie 0.

THE

tor-1
01mm Ommm

HHUIUIOUI

00
OO
00
OO
00
00
OO
00
00
OO

00
00

OO
00
00
00
OO

00

00
OO

00
00
OO

00
00
OO
00
OO
O()

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Hecla Iron Works .
Hegeman, Jos., &Co.

H eissenbuttel Nearing, & :Co:

Henderson, Frank S.
Hoffman, Mrs. John T.
Hosch, F. .

Howell & Saxton
Hughes, P. G.

Hunt, Miss Nannie

I.

Ilsley, S. A., &Co.
Indig, E. .

Iion- Clad Mfg. Co
Iselin, Miss Emilie E.

Itgen, E. H. .

J.
Johnson, Jas. G.
Joost, Martin

K.

Kelsey & Loughlin.
Kenyon & Newton .
Kiley, T homas W.
King & Adams .
Kingman, Martin E
Klotts & Bros’ Sons .
Knickerbocker Ice Co.
Knox, Thomas .
Korber, Albert

L.
Langhler & Sons, N.

Latimer, B. G.
Lewis, S. W.

Lewis, Jr., Mrs. :George

Lewis & Fowler Mfg. Co
Lins & Sons, H.

Lockitts Sons, Geo.
Long Island Brewery .
Lord & Taylor

Low, Eward A. .

M.

McAdam, Mrs. Phoebe J.

MCAlpin, D. H. & Co.
McAndrew, J. C.
McLoughlin Bros.

H
DJUlU'lHUT

UiUI

h—J

IQ

U'lO-PU'IOU‘UIUIUI

H

[O

UlUan’J'l

McShane & Co., Henry

Maduro Est Mrs. L. Blanche

Brandon
Malcolm, G.
Male, W. H.
Mali, Chas. .
Manning, Mrs. R. H.

Manning,1 Maxwell, & Moore.

Marcke, L. H.

Marshall, Edwin

Marston & Son

Martense, A. V.

Marvin Safe Co. .
Matthews, A. D. , & Sons

Matthews The Firm of John

Masury, John W. ., & Son.
May, Levy, & May.

Mayor, Lane, & Co.
Mergle, Anton

Meyer, Henry, Sons
Milbank, Mrs. Jeremiah.
Miner, Mrs. LucyG. . .
Mollenhauer, J.A .& F. D.
Morton, John, &Sons.

Mott Iron Works, TheJ. L.

Moulton, Mrs. F. A.
Moquin & Offerman

N.

New York Condensed Milk

Co.
New York Dairy C o.
Noyes, James S.
O.

O’Brien, Joseph. .
Offerman & Heissenbuttel
Osgood, Mrs. S. R.

P.

Palmei, L. M.

Parsons, Mrs. Mary Lewellyn,

Parsons, J. C. .
Parsons, Mrs. Edwin
Peace, Harvey W., & Co.
Pearce, Miss Lulu
Pomeroy. Mrs. A. T. .
Porter, Mrs. Frank B. .
Potts, Wm. .

Powell, D. B.

    

$5 00

20 oo
5 00

500

500
500
500
500

. 100 00

500

25 00

500

25 00

500
300

. 100 00

500
IO 00
500
1000
500
100
1500
1000
500
500

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

  

R .

Raymond, Mrs. C. T. .
Reiners, H. & H. . .
Ridley, Edward, & Son .
Rogers, Mrs. Charles E. .
Ruppert, Jacob .

S.

Schaefer, F. &M. ,BrewingCo.

Shaw, Mrs. Francis G.
Seitz, M. .
Schellhass, Herman F
Scrymser, Jas. T.
Smith, B. H.

Spence, Wm. .
Stranahan, J. S. T.
Skidmore, Wm. L.
Stewart, H. .
Stokes, Anson Phelps .
Stutz, Louis .
Suydam, Walter L. .

T.

"Taylor, F. E. .
Taylor, Jas. R. .
'Thimig, Herman .
Thomas, Mrs. Ludlow
Thompson & Co.
Thorp, J. H. .

Totten, G. I.

Travers Bros. .
Tuttle, S. Son & Co.

H
UlU'lUl'J'l OU1U1U1UI NU‘UIUI

H

H

anIUIUIUIUILnUI O

00
00
OO
00
OO

00
00
OO
00
OO
00
OO
00
00
OO
00
00
OO

00
OO
00
OO
00
OO
00

OO

 

U.

U. S. Bung Mfg. Co. .
U. S. Express Co. .

V.

Vanderbilt, Mrs. F. W.
Valentine, 8., Sons .
Vogel, Wm., & Bro.
Vosbergh, W. C.

W.

Wallace, W. H. .

Waters, Horace .

Weil, Lemuel .

Westcott Express Co. .

Wheeler, Hayden W. .

White, George C., Jr. .

White, Susan E., Miss

Willets, Maria .

Williams, Geo. G. . .

Williamsburgh Brewing Co. .

Willis, T. B., &Bro.

Wild’ 5, Sam’ 1, Sons .

Wilsori, C. W. . .

Worthington, Henry,Hydrau-
lic W’s . .

Wright, D. D.

Y.

York, Mrs. P. .
Young, Gerard, & Co. .

$5

IO

. 100

mm 1-1
010101 Om Ommm 001mm

H

IO

 

88

OO
00
00

OO
00
00
OO
00
OO
00
OO
00
OO
00
00

OO
00

88

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

QBMtnm'g guard.

The Societylmourns the loss of the following
members, who have died during the year:

D.S.APPLETON,
AUGUSFBELMONT,
JAMESNLBROWN,
CHARlEﬁiM.DACOSTA,
H.DERENTHAL,
hhgsELLENiDOLAN,
A.S.DODD,
MAXIMILIAN FLEISCHMANN,
jUMJAHZHAVTLAND,
L.V.D.HARDENBERG,
HENRYLhHOUGUEI
].KUNTL
\NUJJAMiC.LANGLEY,
FERDINAND MUNCH,
F.D.PARCEL&
].}{USZITS,
D.S.RIKER”
“KS.WOODWARD.

 

La;

 

Wm

.’

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

To 5/5056 w/zo may feel dz’s/ﬁosea’ 1‘0 n’mzczz’e éy H/YLL Z0
f/ze émzevo/em‘ oéjecz‘s of M21? Sawﬂy, Me fol/owzizg‘ 2'5
suémz'z‘z‘ea’ as a form .-

Form of Begum! of Personal Properly.

I give and bequeath unto “The American Society for the Pre-
vention of Cruelty to Animals,” a corporation created by and
existing under the laws of the State of New York, the sum of

................................... dollars, to be applied to the.

uses of said corporation.

me of Dem‘se of [6662/ Property.

I give and devise unto “The American Society for the Pre-

vention of Cruelty to Animals,” a corporation created by and
existing under the laws of the State of New York, all (here insert
description of property). Together with all the appurtenances,
tenements, and hereditaments thereunto belonging or in any wise
appertaining. To have and to hold the same unto the said cor—
poration, its successors and assigns, forever.

71

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

7w.

. : ....Ik\..,w..‘...,nw£ﬁ: a
131..-! .k , .H

 




