 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 1’76

The Self-Sufﬁcient Cat

By ETTA W. SCHLICHTER

IE Katee muss allein kommen.”

There is a superstition among the
Pennsylvania Germans that when a fam-
ily with a cat moves from one house to
another, the cat must on no account be
left behind. But she must not be taken
with the household goods. She may be
transferred to her new quarters either
before or after the “ﬂitting,” but “the
cat must come along.”

Where did such a superstition arise?
It is hard to tell, but the idea of the
aloneness of the cat goes far back into
the centuries, when pictures were painted
of the animals coming out of the ark.
They came out as they went in, two by
two, all but the cat, who walked grandly
alone at the head of the procession.

Why alone? The legend says that no
cat entered the ark. Pussy was not
among predeluge animal's. That proved
a sad lack, for rats and mice so multiplied"
in the ark that all the other occupants
were in torment till, as Athene sprang
from the head of Zeus, ‘a cat sprang from
the head of the lioness, and, dashing
this way and that, got rid of the pests.
This so exalted her that, unchallenged,
she proudly and self-sufﬁciently led the
animals out of the ark.

Pussy may be a delightful pet for hu—
mans and she loves her home. She also
loves her offspring while they are little.
When they no longer need her care, she
puts them “on their own.” I have seen
my cat, after gently and lovingly training
her kittens, teaching them the best cat
manners, regardless of their hurt aston-
ishment, spitefully slap them out of her
way when, in her judgment, they were old
enough to take care of themselves.

A cat may form a friendship with an—
other animal, even with her natural
enemy, the dog, but how rarely does she
make friends with other cat-s? She pre-'
fers her own company so far as her own
race is concerned and seemingly is never
bored with it.

Perhaps this very fault, if fault it is.
is what makes pussy so ingratiating a net

as she curls up on our hearthstone, con—
tented and alone.

 

 

 

 

Dictionary of Dogs

EBy Aletha M. Bonner:—

The Pekingese

A tiny clog, the Pekingese,

A lively toy to pet, or please.

In Chinese history we read

That royalty preferred this breed,

'Twas from Peking that this dog came,

And thus it bears a native name.

The black-haired ones wear white cravats,
And all are small aristocrats.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

ANIMAL AND‘

Dogs in the News

“Pal,” a black cocker spaniel, who
was sent across the Atlantic to join in
the rout of the Axis, as companion to
Lieut. Gen. Mark Clark, commander of
the United States Fifth Army in Italy.

”Rex,” the juke box hound, who grabs
every nickel dropped on the floor and
runs to the music (P) box, whines and
refuses to be comforted until the ﬁve
cent piece is deposited in the machine.

"Poochie,” who liked to wander to the
neighbor’s house. When his mistress
missed him she would ’phone her friend’s
home, ask for Poochie who would be
called to the telephone, have the receiver
put to his ear and in a few seconds trot
for home. All his owner ever said was,
"You come straight home this minute.”

."Mack,” a pointer who fell into a
cistern. His master stripped off his cloth-
ing, made a rope therefrom, dropped it
into the cistern and yelled to Mack.
"catch hold.” Mack did and was saved
from a watery grave.

“Tony,” .who wandered away from
his mistress while she was parked in a

lot in New Jersey. She waited six days‘

in the car, eating and sleeping there.
and positively refusing to leave until
Tony returned.

"Bambi,” French poodle owned by
Constance Bennett, moving picture ac-
tress, who was refused admittance to
one Chicago hotel and for whom Miss
Bennett staged a huge birthday party
when she ﬁnally managed to get him
into another hotel.

After all sorts of fabulous press agent
stories, Hollywood now admits that
"Lassie” is a proud papa and not

MAMA of ﬁve daughters and one son. ~

It is understood that mama is not a
professional actress.

A Washington matron was something
less than calm when her Persian cat
brought home seven baby skunks, ap-
parently abandoned by their mother.
The cat, "Mitzi,” tends the little infants
as if they were her own.

There can be no doubt that war-time
Washington is crowded for living space,
but a new high was reached when a pair
of robins built their nest atop a wren
house, after failing to use the house
itself because of door arrangements.

—]ack Pearson.

September 1944

Africa’s Honey Guide
By JOHN H. SPI‘CER

HE forests of Africa have a small
bird who is always willing to guide
the traveler or hunter to the nearest nest
of wild bees. Because of this peculiar
habit it has been named the honey guide.
It is a plain looking bird about the size
of a lark and belongs to the same family
as our cuckoos. As one might easily
guess, it is very fond of honey though
it has been suggested that the bee grubs
and pupae are equally to its taste. This
appetite sometimes leads it to force its
way into a bees’ nest without assistance,
a rather foolhardy business because their
bodies have been found inside the nests
stung to death or covered with waX.

Usually when it ﬁnds a colony of bees.
the bird follows the wiser course and
goes for help. When it ﬁnds a man, it
ﬂutters around twittering to attract at—
tention and then ﬂying a short distance
coaxing him to follow. This is not hard
to do as the natives know the bird well
and are always ready for a fee-d of honey
themselves. The twittering bird guides
them by ﬂuttering along from bran-ch to
branch ahead of them until they come to
the hollow tree or deserted ant hill that
contains the bees. There it hovers
noisily around while the natives ﬁrst light
a smoky ﬁre of grass to stupefy the bees
and then rob the nest. After they have
removed the stores, and they eat the
grubs and pupae as well as the honey,
they always leave enough to make a real
banquet for the bird.

If there are no humans around, the
bird still knows where to go for help. It
just hunts up the nearest rate], a power-
ful, badger-like animal about three feet
long who is equally fond of honey. It
also knows the bird and its ways and
gladly follows its lead. Travelers say
they make an odd looking pair in the
jungle, the bird twittering and ﬂuttering
through the branches and the animal fol—
lowing it through the undergrowth with
a low chuckling noise as if thinking about
the feast to come. The rate] has a thick,
tough hide that is quite impervious to
bee stings, so it has nothing to fear as it
rips the nest open with its powerful
paws and after it has feasted, there are
always plenty of fragments for the bird.

Sometimes the hunters get a real sur-
prise. No one knows why, but when it
ﬁnds a concealed crocodile or a crouch-
ing lion, the bird will sometimes go for
help in the same manner and lead the
humans to the spot. It would be hard to
say whether it wants the lurking animal
driven away or whether it is trying to
befriend the animal by bringing a dinner
within its reach. Or maybe it is just the
bird’s idea of a practical joke.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

Jun/6194.4 OUR DUMB ANIMALS PageJI7

    
  

 

      
     

“‘lii‘iis‘féeié'ad- .

   

0‘. . ' u .,
‘\ \\\‘\\\

,--~_..~; ’ J
:.‘-.‘a'- ‘ ‘. a ‘ ‘
*V‘ ., "s . . 5.

VJ
r 001/, 14111111 “I I ‘I”
.
»‘- '23‘
. '4'.
\
, s .
.l‘r/I - ”.1
~ 4‘ ‘
i‘ '
a"
I w
iii-x“
. .
\ I
I

W gk'n
A (0;: B‘mr: \ii,[

. \ -.\

.1” \l 'I, :
(‘wi—‘s‘l w, ’4

~ .. A \ "

The Lazy Robin

By INA BLANCHARD BATES

HE BABY robin is lazy, Mother,” Carol cried, as

she turned away from the window. Carol had
ﬁnished her supper and was watching two robins on the
’lawn. One was a father bird, and the other was a baby
robin almost as big as its father.

When Carol was asked why the robin was lazy, she
exclaimed, “Every time the father bird ﬁnds a worm or
bug the baby bird opens its mouth and screams for it.
But when the father bird goes off to ﬁnd something
more and isn’t looking, the baby bird picks up a bug
off the ground.”

Then she turned back to the window. “Oh, look,”
she cried, “the father robin just turned around when
the baby bird was picking up another bug. Hear him
scold! Oh, now he ﬂew right up into the tree and left
the baby bird. He’s big enough to eat by himself and
he was pretending he wasn’t.” She stood watching
quietly for a minute.

Then, “Oh!” Carol’s eyes were big and round, and
her pretty red .mouth puckered up. She ran to the table
and, picking up the napkin that she had left crumpled in
her chair, she folded it neatly and put it in the buffet
drawer.

Photo by C. Y. Egone

FIRST AID TO ANIMALS

 

U

 

This little girl1 is demonstrating first aid with her pet kitty. Ot

course. she would not really try to treat her pet it it were hurtI

but would have her daddy call a veterinarian. Notice how care-
tul she is not to hurt or disturb the animal.

@
Victory Garden

I met a little hnnny

And he winked his nose at me.

He cocked his eye, and thumped his tail
Beneath the wild peach tree.

"I like this fruit, I’ll help myself

To all I want,” said he.

He shared my peachy peaches,
And my bed of choicest greens,
My cahhages and lettuce,

My cat and stringless heans.

My carrots were his choicest meal;
Still I had not the heart

To chase him very far away

From where my victories start.

MARIE ZETTERBERG JELLIFFE

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

03,COI¢4>WZHN

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




,.“--.-s_ _-__so » I'd" .

DUMB ANIMALS August1944

Queer-Voiced Birds

By GLADYS FULLER RASMU‘SSEN

Page 146 0 U R

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

.5” <

 

 

WESTERN MOCKINGBIRD

UEER-VOICED birds—well, there

are many of them all over the

world, of course, but these six

seem to be the most odd: El Perrito, the

Bell Bird, the Bull Bird, the Senegal Fin-

foot, the Coachwhip Bird, and our own
Mockingbird.

El Perrito is a bird of the South

American country of Chile (incidentally

True “Water Baby”

HE young grebe is a true “water

baby.” When he has pecked his way
out of the egg, he ﬁnds himself ﬂoating
on the water in a sort of raft-nest which
his parents have carefully woven from
reeds and dry marsh grass. For a few
moments he studies the water from the
edge of his strange home, and then—
splash!

But the grebe parents (papa grebe
shares his part of the burden of raising
a family without complaint) know their
children are too weak for much violent
exercise, so they carry their young on
their backs. Sometimes you can see an
old grebe with two or three chicks
nestling just under the wing coverts,
with only their heads exposed. At the
slightest sound, up go the parent’s feath—
ers to form a protective screen, com—
pletely hiding the chicks, and sometimes,
if alarmed, the old birds will dive, keep-
ing the little brood in place under the
wings. Since water is their natural ele—
ment, they can stay under its surface for
a remarkably long period.

——Mabel Irene Savage

the country itself is named for a bird,
the Trile, whose song repeats what
sounds like the name of its land, over
and over, “Trile, trile”) and somewhat
resembles a stork, but barks like a dog.
The people of Chile have named it El
Perrito, which means little dog, from
which one can know that the barking of
E1 Perrito is not the heavy bark of the
St. Bernard, but the ﬁner bark of the
small-sized dog.

Not to be outdone by the barking El
Perrito is the Bell Bird, also a resident
of South America. He rings himself!
He does this by means of an “antenna,”
a spiral-like arrangement on his fore-
head. When he gives forth his call, this
“antenna” evidently sends it over the
air waves, for it can be heard for a
distance of three miles. A natural radio!
This call has been spoken of as “the most
astonishing note ever heard from a bird.”

Another queer-voiced bird from our
good neighbor, South America, is the
Bull Bird. Goodness knows why he was
named that when his voice is a rather
exact imitation of a cow’s! A great ﬂuff
of feathers crowns his head and another
bunch of longer feathers hangs from his
neck down over his breast. Otherwise
this dark-plumaged bird is not particu—
larly good-looking.

Going back to birds that imitate ani—

ﬂ

mals, there’s the Senegal Finfoot. He
doesn’t bark like a dog as El Perrito does,
he merely growls like one. He looks much
like a goose with a black back and White
front and has huge webbed feet, a “ﬁn—
foot.” It must be rather alarming to be
expecting a comforting “quack,” and to
hear instead a loud growl!

Moving over to a land much in the
news of late, we ﬁnd the Coachwhip Bird.
He is a passerine bird, which only means
that he belongs to the sparrow family.
But he does have one surprising trait,
his voice. He opens his mouth and out
comes a sound that resembles the crack
of a whip! Many a poor Australian
has no doubt jumped at the note of the
Coachwhip Bird and then looked foolishly
about. )

In our own Southern States, as well
as in Central and South America, is our
beloved Mockingbird, a small, brown and
white bird, shy and active, whose own
notes are very melodious, clear and
varied. But apparently it is not satisﬁed
with them, for it uses its great and
remarkable talent for exact imitations of
the notes of other birds. Its “queer
voice” is many voices. The Mexicans
call it “the bird of four hundred tongues,”
and one of America’s most beautiful old
songs is dedicated to this little bird,
“Listen to the Mockingbird.”

 

Photo, Fish and Wildlife Service

Western Grebe with youngl ihree days old.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Globe Trotting Turkey

By JASPER B. SINCLAIR

HAD Benjamin Franklin had his own way, the turkey would
have been selected as our national emblem instead of the
American bald eagle. The latter, argued Franklin, had a
pernicious habit of preying UepOIl smaller birds and, therefore,
could never be symbolic of the United States.

It might have been a popular choice with the people of this
country at that, because the turkey is just as thoroughly
American as the high-ﬂying eagle.

There were two distinct families of wild turkeys in the early
days—those of the Allegheny Mountain region and those in
Mexico. The Mexican variety was the ﬁrst to be tamed, having
been domesticated by the Aztecs long before Cortez and his
conquistadors entered Mexico in search of treasures stored
in the .halls of Montezuma. The Spanish promptly sent some
of the birds home on their treasure-laden galleons.

From Spain, the turkey was gradually introduced into
France, Italy, Germany, and the Low Countries. It hopped
across the Channel and reached the British Isles about the
time British colonists were beginning to set out to build a share
of the New World.

The colonists took some of the birds back across the Atlantic
—and in that roundabout fashion the turkey returned to its
native continent just in time to become the symbol of the
New England Thanksgiving.

There were turkeys in America, of course, when the ﬁrst
settlers landed here. The Jamestown colonists saw them in
Virginia. The Pilgrims saw them on Cape Cod, the ﬁrst
scouting expedition under Miles Standish returning with the
report that the woods were full of turkeys.

There were turkeys in America, but the European colonists
had acquired a knowledge and taste for turkeys before setting
out for the New World of hope and opportunity.

Why and where the turkey got its name is one of the
mysteries of the poultry world. Tradition tells us that it was
because the name resembles the sound uttered [by the bird. But
that is just as likely to be nothing more than a bit of folklore.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

November .1941;

The Tale of the Tail

AIL-WAGGING among dogs began way bTCk in prehistoric
times. Wild species of some of the breeds of dogs we see
today used their tails to signal to one another while hunting.
Canine experts have always been able to read and interpret
these wig-waggings. And it surely will proﬁt anyone that
stirs about at all to do this, too. For we encounter dogs daily
and throughout life. Friendly dogs, and dogs unfriendly.

When a dog approaches you whipping his tail frantically to
and fro, he is not foolishly indulging in a useless muscular
exercise. He is signaling to all who can read his thoughts and
feelings of the moment which he cannot [put into words.

It is the dog’s own code. It varies according to the message
he wishes to ﬂash to the world on that “semaphore” to the rear.
He has a short, twitching motion that expresses his anxiety
and interest. A violent lashing of his tail makes known his
enthusiasm or his affection or his anticipation of being fed.
When a dog’s tail is curled up over his back in a little ring,
he’s in a joyful, pleased, friendly mood. If it is drooped and
motionless, or between his legs, he is signaling his defeat,
discouragement, or that he is scared, bluffed, “whipped out.”
When his tail is at half-mast, straight out behind, he’s un-
certain about you—watch him; he may 'be hostile; He may
even attack you.

A dog’s mood, his disposition toward you, is revealed un—
mistakably by the way he carries his tail. But the why of the
wag—that is something else again. It took science to explain
why the dog “talks” with his tail. When a dog is pleased and
delighted he must have some outlet for his feelings. No less
than the embarrassed human, when she ﬁdgets in her chair,
or when he digs his toe into the dirt. The dog’s tail acts like a
safety valve. Through outward convulsion of the muscles of
his rearward anatomy the dog thus takes the pressure off his
nervous system. —Max Meredith

   
  

     
  
  

  
 
 

   

 
  
 
  

 
   

V

   

‘» , \i‘ b ’
\ ’ / ,. g ' ,f /
_/ ////
////// Z _
way/1’40 -.-
-:.’.:::-:_-:-;-;--'-'-=:-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

New York law provides for a tine it you bring bones into the house
for a pet dog without special permission from the city fathers.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

Page 238

@112 Tﬁanh of ﬁling or

3111mm ﬁumame Ezagur

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
ERIC H. HANSEN, Executive Vice-President
WILLIAM A. SWALLOW, Secretary

PLEDGE

I will try to be kind to all living crea-
tures and try to protect them from cruel
usage.

The American Humane Education So-
ciety Will send to every person who forms
a Band of Mercy of thirty members, and
sends the name chosen for the Band and
the name and post-ofﬁce address of the
president who has been duly elected, special
Band of Mercy literature and a gilt badge
for the president.

NEW BANDS OF MERCY

Two hundred and twenty Bands of
Mercy were organized during October.
These were distributed as follows:

Georgia . . . ..... . _ 90
Virginia ............. 41
Pennsylvania ..... . . . . 33
Florida 27
Texas .......... . . 26
Massachusetts ........... 1
Minnesota . ..... . . . . 1 ‘
Nebraska . . . . ........... 1

Total number of Bands of Mercy or-

ganized by Parent-American Society,
269.004. '

SUMMARY OF FIELD WORK

Number of addresses made, 78
Number of persons in audiences, 16,844

 

ON THE RECEIVING END

Hollywood. with its open spaces and large

homes. can be a happy land for dogs. One

of the lucky ones is "Maior Nugget."

blonde cocker spaniel. who shares the se-

crets. even telephonic ones. of his mistress.
Ella Raines.

OUR DUMB

ANIMALS

December 1941;

 

SPECIAL PROGRAM PRESENTED AT WASHINGTON SCHOOL

Pupils of Washington School. Springfield.

recently enjoyed a special program of which

one of the features was a visit from "Skippy." Skye terrier of Mrs. Charlena B. Kibbe.

representing The American Humane Education Society. Mrs. Kibbe. in addition. showed

the motion picture. I'Small Peter's Chief Adventure." which all the children enioyed.

The program Was arranged by Miss Rosa M. Bowker. principal. and Miss M. Arline
Little.

4%

Meeting in Maine .

MEETING of the Hancock County

S. P. C. A. was recently held at the
home of its vice—president, Miss Frances
Coleman, Bar Harbor, Maine. Under the
leadership of President Anita Harris, the
meeting was a great success and caused
a renewed. interest in animal protection
and humane education.

Among the speakers was Miss Gladys F.
Taggett, secretary of the Maine Federa-
tion of Humane Societies. Miss Taggett
addressed the some forty adults and ﬁfty
children on humane education, using as
her theme, “The friendship of children
for birds and animals and other growing
forms of life, is one of the most beautiful
things in the world. To encourage it- is

~ to water the bud of a lovely blossom.”

At the end of the meeting, Miss Cole—
man served refreshments, consumed to
the accompaniment of a general inter-
change of ideas relating to animal pro—
tection.

@

New Seciety'q'. ,-

HROUGIH. the efforts '- ijélour’ ﬁeld '

worker, Mrs. E. P. Byrne, of Tacoma,
Washington, a new society" has been
formed recently at Olympia. This new
organization, the Thurston COunty 'Hu-
mane Society, was organized October 1
with twenty members joining on the spot.

The slate of Ofﬁcers electedincludes:

Newton C. Bader, president I. ,
Mrs. R. L. Bratram, first vice-president
Mrs. Leta Rivers, second vice-president

Mrs. Chester Nye, secretary
Mrs. J. A. Slocum, treasurer

Our Fighting Allies

FEW months ago an urgent SOS

was ﬂashed to Argentina for toads.
Valuable plane space was given them, and
soon they were playing an important
part in saving Florida’s sugar crOp. The
crop was threatened by the harmful sugar
cane beetles, but the toads, which had
been conditioned to prefer this type of
beetle, soon made short work of the pests
and enjoyed a ﬁne meal at the same time.

Toads are not beautiful, but they have
always been the farmer’s most beneﬁcent
friend, waging ceaseless war on many
injurious insects which prey upon trees
and garden produce.

Birds, animals, and certain bugs have
proved to be our most effective allies in
our endless and costly ﬁght against ha‘rm-
ful insects.

Among our oldest imported insect
ﬁghters are the ladybird beetles. Fifty
years ago they were brought from Aus-
tralia to combat the cottony cushion scale
in California. A good job they did, too.
They are also‘w'inning the war they re—
cently? declared'ﬂ'against the mealybugs,

"which 'arefh‘armful to the citrus fruit
"blossoms and potato sprouts. ‘

The screw worm, another dreaded in-
sect, is being destroyed in Florida by
the armadillo. This armored-back native
of South America has a long list of harm-
ful insects on its daily menu. It kills
snakes by merely r011ing on them. Its

hard back crushes the reptile.

Harmful insectswould soon make the

world an impossible pl-ac-e'to live in if it‘

weren’t for these unsung ﬁghting allies
of ours. ”George S. Lookabaugh

 

 

 

:.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

Page 118

@112 Tﬁanh 11f Merry nr

3Juninr ﬁnmanr {Emma

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
ERIC H. HANSEN, Executive Vice-President
WILLIAM A. SWALLOW, Secretary

PLEDGE

I will try to be kind to all living crea-
tures and try to protect them from cruel
usage.

The American Humane Education So-
ciety will send to every person who forms
a Band of Mercy of thirty members, and
sends the name chosen for the Band and
the name and post-ofﬁce address of the
president who has been duly elected, special
Band of Mercy literature and a gilt badge
for the president.

NEW BANDS OF MERCY

One hundred and eighty—eight Bands
of Mercy were organized during April.
These were distributed as follows:

Massachusetts ............. 74
Georgia . . . ........... 46
Virginia ..... . . . . . . . ..... 44
Florida . . . ............. 18
Pennsylvania .............. 2
South Carolina ........ 2
Michigan .................. 1
Washington . . ............. 1

Total number Bands of Mercy organ-
ized by Parent-American Society, 268,134.

SUMMARY OF FIELD WORK

Number of addresses made, 136
Number of persons in audiences, 19,893

d
Transition

By PAUL CHURCHER

So much can be mistaken

In appraising feline splendor!
This morning I awakened

To the fact that I’d been taken
In, in regard to gender.

Suave Toughy was my favorite cat—
But Toughy is no more;

He metamorphosed from This to That,
Now Tufty sits where Toughy sat,
PerpIexed by Tuffets, four.

d

American F ondouk, Fez
Annual Report for 1943

Daily average of 1a1ge animals hospitalized 23.4
Daily aveIage of dogs in the Pound fed by
Fondouk ................................ 10.9
Animals put to sleep—«certiﬁed by Veterinary
Surgeon as incurable 53
Animals hospitalized during the year (131
sent by Police Dept.) .................... 831
Number of visits of inspections to the native
fondouks 5,629
Animals inspected during these visits .. .. 105,714
Animals tieated on the spot ... .. .. . . .... ... 9,328
Animals sent to Hospital .................. 1,326
Number of infected pack- saddles destroyed .. 50
Number of Arab- bits destroyed . .. 22

Number of animals brought to the Fondouk by
their owners fox treatment (Out-patients) 7,869
Animals transported to Hospital . . . . . . , , , _ , _ 11

GUY DELON, Superintendent

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Nor I Alone
By CALVIN WALKER

AST NIGHT, while the great presses
rhythmically pounded out the sinews

of war, and the purple ﬂashes of arc
and atomic welded them together, and
the cacophonies of grinders and grit
blasters gave a lustred completion, I had
a strange and not unfamiliar longing. In
that walled-in citadel of ﬂuorescent light—
ing and interminable noise, in the dead
of a city’s darkness, in the conﬁnement
that knows no sunrise warm on a bank
of dawn-washed cumulus, or a breath of
air combed by tree—clothed hills and
washed in verdant meadows, I had that
fearful longing. Strong it was, breaking
even the endless turmoil of metals in
raucous discord; penetrating the con-
sidered progress of conveyor and endless
belt; surging, like mountainous waves,
against the shorey bulwarks of reality.

Last night, out of that babble of sight

and sound, I longed for a hillside, in sum—...
mertime, with tessellated ﬁelds and for-

ests. I longed for the sight of a buck
there, against the verdant greenery, his
trident Sur-royal crown majestic in
peaceful lordship. I longed for the wheel-
ing ﬂight and the eerie cry of the hawk;
the brief crisp yap of the fox; the plain-
tive lovely call of the thrush. Yes, and I
longed for a stretch of mountain brook,
all alive and creamy against bedded rock;
a brook cuddled with gray moss, delicate
fronds of fern and the soft slow pas-sage
of shade. I longed for a bit of pasture
land, with a herd of grazing cattle; and
a stretch of meadow turning into earthen
breakers behind two stalwart ploughing
horses.

I longed, too, in the tumult, for the
sight of robins on a rain-washed lawn,
and even the raucous passage of a scream—
ing jay. I longed for the sight of blue—
birds, at nesting time, in their silent
industry; and the steady lashing of the
whippoorwill, at twilight, when all others
had sought their rest. And the ﬂuttering
aimless pas-sage of bats in the fading day-
light, their delicate patagia currying
soundless air. I longed for the clean
sweet air of m~eadowland, of pine-scent
from a hundred hills, of clover-smell from
a fresh-cut ﬁeld. I longed for peace
——man to man, man to beast—peace to
enjoy a bountiful world.

I longed for peace—to garner its fruit
yet preserve its fruition. To preserve
with might, guardedly, in all the years.
To allow, no more, a world of longings;
to perpetuate, in righteous might, free-
dom of all life over hill and plain and
valley. I longed for it, while machinery
crashed on tools of destruction, while
lonely men died in foreign lands, while
Nature looked on, stoically, harboring her
own and keeping ever fresh and beautiful.

June 191,1;

 

“Vic” Finds a Home

HIS is the story of “Victory,” called

“Vic” for short by his buddies. Vic,
a tan German shepherd, was a man’s dog
and more particularly a soldier’s dog. In
short, Vic was a company mascot.

But when overseas duty was ordered,
it was decided that Vic must be left be-
hind, so Lt. Leonard Carlson, of Misha-
waka, Indiana, sent him to his own home.
He was quite a big addition to a family
that already boasted of two dogs, so Vic
was sent to a neighboring farm where it
was hoped he would be happy. Appar-
ently lonesome for his soldiers, however,
he ran away and returned to Lieutenant
Carlson’s home.

And there he stayed for about two
weeks, endearing himself to the family
by his friendliness and intelligence. But
he wasn’t quite happy in a civilian home,
so a letter was sent to the Percy Jones
Hospital for servicemen, in Battle Creek,
Michigan. The answer was an enthusi-
astic acceptance so, knowing that Vic
hadn’t liked being shipped by express,
he was personally escorted to the hospital
in the family car.

Vic was back where he belonged. The
sight of uniforms once again gave him
new life and he was soon happily playing
with the men and getting acquainted
with the mess sergeant.

Letters have been received from his
new masters, unanimously telling how
Vic has made a loved and respected place
for himself. Yes, Vic is just a dog, but
he is doing his bit in helping in the re-
habilitation of his soldier friends.

11%

Our readers are urged to clip from
“Our Dumb Animals” various articles
and requested local editors to republish.
Such 'copies of the magazine so mutilated
will be replaced by us upon application.

 

 

 




 

August 1941,

OUR, DUMB

Living Teddy Bear

By JOYCE BURNS GLEN

to see in Australia were kangaroos.

Instead they found the national
animal of Down Under to be the cute
little koala bear — Coca-Colas as their
American nickname came to be.

As seen in this picture, the koala "has
a funny bewildered little face, af"‘Soft
round body, covered with blue-gray fur,
and no tail. His black shoe-button eyes
twinkle, and his big woolly ears and
adorable snub nose make him look more
like an animated toy than a living crea-
ture. He is just made to be cuddled and
likes nothing better than to be held like
a baby. He cries like one, too, when he is
lost in the bush at night.

About 32 inches long when full grown,
the koala is a nocturnal animal and is
usually seen in the daytime snoozing in
the fork of a tree. He does all his forag-
ing for food at night, storing it in cheek
pouches. The koala has only one baby
at a time and, like the kangaroo, carries
it around in the pouch. There it stays
hidden until it is old enough to peep out
and take a look at the world. Soon it
hops out of the nursery and climbs on
mother’s back, where it clings until it
graduates to the limb of a tree.

These living teddy bears would be seen
in every zoo if they were not so fussy
about their diet. They live in eucalyptus
forests and only eat a few of the hun-

THE ﬁrst thing our soldiers expected

dreds of varieties of gum leaves. They
never drink water. Although awkward
and clumsy on the ground, the koala is
quite an acrobat in a tree, and will brave
the highest and what seems the most
precarious branch for the juiciest gum
tips.

The koala is one of Australia’s first in—
habitants, for it was living there before
the Flood and even in the days when the
mammoth was roaming across Europe.
Like another primitive Australian, the
kangaroo, the koala is found only Down
Under.

The bush used to be teeming with these
bears, who traveled round a lot, gat‘her-
ing their harvest in one neighborhood
and then moving on to another, swinging
from tree to tree. But when Australia
began to be settled and clearings and
wild dogs and foxes appeared in the bush,
the poor native bear was too afraid to
come down from the high branches, and
became a one-tree Australian, making his
abode in one particular tree until the
supply of gum tips was exhausted. Then
under cover of night he and his family
would move cautiously to another tree.
Not only was the koala in danger from
animals; the White man brought with
him the urge to slaughter these harmless
creatures for their beautifully warm,
non—verminous coats. Queensland alone

used to export a million pelts a year in

4.3

 

Photo, New Bedford (Mass) Standard-Times

Tiny baby squirrel and its adopted mother.

A N I A! A L S

Page 11/7

 

Australia's live teddy bears.

the.1920’s. Bush ﬁres, paralysis and
pneumonia reduced them, too, until 20
years ago there were only 800,000 bears
left in New South Wales and Queens-
land. Then Australians decided to give
the koala a chance, protecting them by
law and forming sanctuaries for their
preservation, and today it is good to know
that their numbers are gradually increas-
ing.

Cat Adopts Squirrel

ROM the .kingdom of the animal
world comes another one of those

heart-warming stories that prove the
beauty and depth of maternal instinct.

This time, “Skippy,” pet of Mr. and
Mrs. Camy Luminiello, New Bedford,
Massachusetts, and a lady-cat in every
sense of the word, has adopted a stray
baby squirrel. It all happened not long
ago, when Ralph Methot was gardening
in the Luminiello backyard. A tiny baby
squirrel climbed into his overalls back
pocket and, not having the heart to turn
it loose, alone in a big and cruel world,
Mr. Methot brought it into the house.

Skippy, who had become the proud
mother of four kittens only a few days
before, saw the infant squirrel placed in
a solitary box at the other end of the
room, hungry and weak. Right then and
there, mother Skippy decided to adopt a
ﬁfth child. She fed it, brought it back to
Vigor, and the result is shown in the
accompanying picture.

Who said, “Be kind to animals?”
Skippy’s deed is a lesson in kindness
from one animal to another.

 

 

 




 

 

 

September 191,1,

Animal Fact or Animal Fiction

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

 

a"-
. r
o
‘ "
Q‘ .‘
*- .
..
‘- -'
‘
‘
‘Q

. ~-
3.
‘ o
§

:§
\-.,.

 

correctly you are a nature shark.

1.

10.

11.

12.

'13.

14.

15.

. The V-shaped ﬂocks of Canada geese
in migration are usually headed by a
wise and strong old gander.

The largest male always heads the
elephant herd.

The ﬂying squirrel is very rare.

Place a horsehair in water and it will
turn into a snake.

No other animal will attack the
diamond rattlesnake.

The musk—0X shows no affection for
its young.

The giraffe prefers the dew on the
leaves of the tall acacia tree to drink-
ing from a stream.

The glass snake can break its body
into small pieces and then grow them
together as good as new.

The gray squirrel mother carries her
young by grasping a hind leg or
shoulder.

The wild turkey has become thor-
oughly domesticated.

The queen bee is always surrounded

in the hive by a circle of attendants,"

each with its head pointing toward
the royal mother.

Where there are trees the black bear
has no fear of the grizzly.

Young kangaroos have longer fore-
legs than hind legs.

The horn of the rhinoceros is excellent
ivory.

Young ﬂamingoes have perfectly
straight bills.

 

 

Eight correct answers is passing. If you can answer twelve

True False

True False

True False
True False
True False

True False

True False

True False

True False

True False

True False
True False
True False
True False

True False

——Bessie L. Putnam

How did you make out this time? Did you get twelve right?
If not, it might be wise for you to study up before taking your
next test. Perhaps you aren’t sure about you-r answers. If not,
look at this page in our October issue.

 

Afternoon Napper
By KATHLEEN DELANEY

I once knew a pussy with whiskers quite dapper,
Who certainly was an afternoon napper;

But when the night came, he whisked far away,
For darkness to him was as clear as the day.

I’m sure that he saw things we never could see,
’Cause his eyes would light up as bright as could be,
And he’d store with great interest at just a stone wall,
On which I could see nothing; nothing at all.

Then with a jump he’d land right on the top,

And his tail would wave madly ﬂippity-ﬂop.

With yellow eyes gleaming, he’d strike out with his paw,
Then examine the ghost-thing he held in his claw.

Yes, I’m sure that this pussums had magical sight
Which could fathom the secrets of mysterious night.
But let come the day, and dull was his stare,

As he curled up to rest in his own easy chair.

 

H. Armstrong Roberts

COMPANIONS SHARE THE HAPPY HOURS

 

 

 

 

 

‘ * ' 'WINW‘ZWNI‘W‘Z'?'Zmiix‘ﬁmﬁ§ﬁiﬁ¢lm‘i rl'i (BY-1 ume‘mW




 

 

 

November 19.41,

. Watch

Your
Language!

By J EWELL CASEY
O

"GRACEFUL AS A SWAN" IS AN APT DESCRIPTION

AVE you ever thought just how many of our most pic—
turesque and oft used phrases have been suggested by
certain characteristics of animals, ﬁsh and birds?

For example, an unusually slow person is invariably described
as being “slow as a snail.” Whereas the fast person is “swift
as a swallow,” or if especially ﬂeet of foot, can “run like a
quail,” or if busily engaged, he is “working like a beaver.”

We have all known persons who were “as sly as a fox,” or
“slippery as an eel,” and were capable of putting over a “ﬁshy
transaction,” or one that was “not cricket.”

Those who are inclined to inﬂict pain on others are truly
“cruel as hawks,” while “innocent as a lamb” would be descrip—
tive of the gentle, kind-natured person.

The eccentric person is a “queer ﬁsh,” the intellectual is
“wise as an owl,” while the inane is “silly as a goose,” and the
demented, “crazy as a loon.” ~

“Merry as a cricket,”———“gay as a lark,”-—“chipper as a
sparrow” are all common phrases descriptive of those who are
cheerful, lively and happy. While an ill-tempered, sour dis-
posed .pers-on is known to be a “regular crab,” or “surly as a
bear,” or “like a bear with a sore head!”

A person smaller than the average size is called “a shrimp,”
while one of unusual size is said to be “as big as a whale.”

“Graceful as a swan,” “neat as a wren,” are appropriate
descriptions of the reﬁned and orderly. But an awkward, or
red-faced person may be “as ugly as a toad,” or “ugly as a
dead monkey,” or “red as a lobster.”

“Wolf in sheep’s clothing,” “snake in the grass,” “loose
ﬁsh,” “sad dog,” or “black sheep” are descriptive phrases of
those whose conduct is not just what it should be, and they
usually end up by “going straight to the dogs!”

Common expressions used to describe avid appetites are:
“hungry as a bear,” “greedy as a hog,” and “hearty as a buck.”

The courageous hero is said to be “bold as a lion,” “lion—
hearted,” or to possess “bull-dog courage,” and would no doubt
——should occasion demand—“ﬁght like a tiger,” “take the bull
by the horns,” “bell the cat,” or “beard the lion in his den.”
Whereas, the coward has a “hang-dog look” is “chicken-hearted”
and “in face a lion, but in heart a deer.”

The wasteful, rash person “makes ducks and drakes out of
his money,” “buys a pig in a poke,” and often counts his
chickens before his eggs are hatched,” thereby probably reach-
ing the state of poverty where he is “as poor as Job’s turkey,”

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Page 207

 

or “as poor as a church mouse,” and has the “wolf at his door!”

A cool, calculating person is said to be as “cold as a clam.”
The one possessing extraordinary talent in some particular
line is known as a “shark.”

To ﬁnd oneself in an embarrassing position is said to be in
“a pretty kettle of ﬁsh.” To play a joke on some one is “to
make a monkey out of him.”

The person easily deceived is a “regular sucker,” or is said to
“swallow hook, line and sinker.” And the one who tries to go
back on an agreement may well be called “a crawﬁsh.” The one
who tries to get out of paying his part is commonly called
“a sponge.”

The person who has little to say is “silent as an oyster,” and
the one given to much talk is said to “talk like a parrot.”

Some people tell “ﬁsh stories” and others “ﬁsh for com-
pliments,” while others “ﬂounder” around as “uncomfortable
as a ﬁsh out of water,” and no one likes to be crowded up “like
sardines in a can,” and all desire more “privacy than a goldﬁsh.”

One’s ﬁrst love is said to be “puppy love,” and the loving
glances exchanged is known as “casting sheep’s eyes.”

The insincere person is said to “hold with the hare but run
with hounds,” and is accused of shedding “crocodile tears.”
And when wishing to divert suspicion when going off on “a
wild goose chase” (some foolhardy adventure) may do so by
“drawing a herring across the trail.”

And although a present may be a “white elephant” (un-
welcome gift), one should never “look a gift horse in the
mouth” (criticize the gift!) And neither should one “kill the
goose which lays the golden eggs.” (Destroy source of help.)

A person desiring to settle some question with another is
said to have a “crow to pluck,” Whereas, the person may “have
other ﬁsh to fry” and Will not join in the discussion.

These are only a few of the many “beastly, ﬁshy and fowl”
phrases which have become a part of our everyday vocabulary,
so we close with these words of caution: “Let sleeping dogs
lie, and “DON’T PUT ALL OF YOUR EGGS IN ONE
BASKET !”

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

ibumane literature for letistmas (gifts

. o
For Sale by the American Humane Education Society and the Massachusetts 5. P. C. A.

180 Longwood Avenue, Boston 15, Mass., at these prices, postpaid.

Titles in bold-face type are of books or booklets.

Colored Posters, 17 x 28 inches, attrac-
tive pictures and verses, six in set .. $1.00

Colored Posters, 17 x 22 inches .. .5 cts. each

About the Horse

Care of the Horse ..................... $1.25 per 100
Humane Education Leaﬂet, No. 5 ...... .50 “ “
The Horse’s Prayer .................... .30 “ “

The Bell of Atri, poem by Longfellow . . .50 “ “

The Shame of It—Mutilating the horse
by setting up his tail. Dr. Rowley.
Four illus., 4 pp. .................... Free

About the Dog
Eulogy on the Dog, by Vest, post-card . .$0.50 per 100
Care of the Dog ....................... .75 “ “
Suggestions for Feeding Dogs . . . . . . . . . . . 1.50 “ “
Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 3 and 4 .50 “ “
“Don” and His Boy Scout Friends, J. P.

Lyons ............................... .50 “ ”
The Story of Barry .................... .30 “ “
Boots’ Day, play, for two boys and three

girls ................... 3 cts. each; ﬁve for 10 cts.
Distemper in Dogs, Dr. Schneider ...... Free

About the Bird

The Birds of God, 318 pp., illus. ........ cloth, $0.45
Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 1 and 2.$0.50 per 100
How the Birds Help the Farmer ........ .50 “ “
The Air-Gun and the Birds .............. .50 “ “
About the Cat
Care of the Cat ........................ $0.75 per 100
The. Cat in Literature .................. .50 “ “
Do Not Leave Your Cat to Starve ....... .50 “ “

“The Beggar Cat,” post-card, 6 cts. doz. .50 “ “

About Other Animals
Do You Know About This? .............. Free
First Aid to Animals, Dr. Schneider, 8 pp. .$1.00 per 100
How to Kill Animals Humanely, 4 pp. . .75 “ “
Humane Education Leaﬂet, No. 6, Animals .50 “ “
Humane Education Leaﬂet, No. 7, Farm ,

Animals ............................. .50 “ “
Ways of Kindness ...................... .75 “ “
Care of Rabbits ...................... .30 “ ”
Cruelty at Eastertime ................ .75 “ “
Professor Frog’s Lecture, 8 pp. ......... .75 “ “
Why the Toad is so Useful '. ............. .30 “ “
Hints on the Care of Cows .............. .50 “ “
Directions for the Care of Swine ........ 1.00 “ “
A Wise Fish ........................... .50 “ “

The Jack London Club
Michael Brother of Jerry, Jack London, cloth, 75 cts.
What is the Jack London Club? . .. .. .. .$0.30 per 100
Foreword from “Michael Brother of

J erry” .............................. .30 “ “
Do Wild Animals Prefer Captivity? Helen

Trevelyan, 4 pp. ..................... .50 “ “
Films, Fakes and Facts, Helen Trevelyan,

4 pp. ................................ .50 “ “

Our Dumb Animals, monthly publication of our
Societies, $1 per year.

Humane Education
Humane Education, by Dr. Francis H.

Rowley .............................. Free
The Relation of the Home to Character

Formation, Dr. Francis H. Rowley Free
The Animal or the Child, Dr. Rowley . .. Free
Humane Education and Spiritual Values,

Dr. Rowley .......................... Free
A Great Prophecy, Dr. Rowley .......... Free
Kindness and Humane Education ........ $1.00 per 100
Kindness Picture Book, 32 pp. ........... 10 cts.

The Teacher’s Helper in Humane Educa-
tion, 32 pp. .......................... each, 10 cts.

An Early Start to Kindness, Lucia. F.
Gilbert, 48 pp. For ﬁrst and second
grades . . . .. . . . . . .,each 10 cts.

“Be Kind to Animals" pennants ........ each, 25 cts.

The Humane Idea, Dr. Francis H. Rowley
cloth, 35 cts.

Friends and Helpers (selections for school
use) Sarah J. Edd dy .................. cloth, $1. 20

The B—K—T—A—Club, play, 3 cts. each; ten for 250.
“And a. Little Child Shall Lead Them,"

play ...................... 3 cts. each; ten for 25c.
I’ll Never Hunt Again, play, 3 cts. each; ﬁve for 10 cts.
The Best Gift, play ........ 2 cts. each; six for 10 cts.
Let Us Have Pets! play, for three boys

and three girls .......... 2 cts. each; six for 10 cts.
Humane Exercises . . . . . . . . . ............ $1.50 per 100

Humane Education the Vital Need, Dr.
Rowley, short radio address, 2 cts. each. $0. 50 per 100

Humane Education, What to Teach and

How to Teach It ..................... .50 “ “
A Talk with the Teacher ................ .50 “ “
Our Love for Animals, 3. short radio

address .................. 2 cts. each; 1.00 “ “
A Festival of Tender Mercies . . . . . . . . .50 “ “
How to Organize a Society for the Pro-

tection of Animals .................... .50 “ “

Bookmark, with “A Humane Prayer” . . 1.00 “ “

Twenty Years of Be Kind to Animals
Week, Guy Richardson . .3 cts. each; ten for 25 cts.

Band of Mercy

Badges, gold ﬁnish, large, 10 cts., small 5 cts.
“Band of Mercy” pennant ............. 25 cts.
Songs of Happy Life (56 pages, words

only) ................................ $3.00 per 100
Band of Mercy Membership Card ........ .50 “ “
How to Form Bands of Mercy .......... .50 “ “
Does It Pay, Story of one Band of Mercy .30 “ “
Band of Mercy Register ................ 10 cts.

Please enclose remittance with orders for less than $1

AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
180 Longwood Ave., Boston 15, Mass.

 

 

THIS SPACE
CONTRIBUTED

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Since 1832
J. S. WATERMAN & SONS, Inc.

funeral 92min

Local—Suburban—Distant

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

A CALENDAR HE DOES
4W Pew

The number of dog lovers in
this country is legion. Here
is a newly designed calendar
for them. In its twelve pages
and cover appear thirteen
favorite dogs of America
drawn by the famous artistI
Gladys. Emerson Cook. ' The
portraits of the big dogs are
noble and striking; those of
the smaller ones are gay and
lovable; the puppies are en-
chanting. Each page contains
a quotation from a famous
writer. extolling the nobility
and faithfulness of our most
loved pets. in a remarkable
collection of inspiring trib-
utes.

l2 pages and cover in color.
plus a description of each
dog on the fourteenth page.

Size 8" x IO". Boxed.

$I.OO postpaid anywhere in
the U. S. A. Send check,

cash or money order. Sorry.

no C. O. D.'s.

THE PAUL REVERE SHOP

1782 Massachusetts Ave,
lexingtun 73, Mass.

 




 

 

 

MAN USCRIPTS WANTED

Books, stories, plays and articles for sub-
mlssion in and foreign countries.
Motion picture rights placed. Write for
FREE details of UNIFIED SALES PLAN.
Circular R-64.

OTIS ADELBERT KLINE
507 Fifth Avenue New York l7. New York

 

 

 

 

English Springer Spaniels
Goeker Spaniels

KITCHENER
KENNELS

:13

Directions
For
Reaching Farm

 

Sign on Route 3.
1%, mile from
Billerica Centre

Telephone Billerica 762

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Ready Reference

Nothing is so disconcerting as a
futile search for a particularly
desired copy of Onanmb Animals.

Here is a chance to maintain a
permanent ﬁle in your private
library, by buying a bound volume
of the 1943 issues. There you will
have ready reference to the many
informative articles on nature and
animal care. It will be an invalu-
able aid to your children in their
school work.

Furthermore, these volumes make
splendid gifts, especially to school
and public libraries.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS for 1943
240 pages; 200 illustrations of
animals and birds
Price .......... $1.50

180 Longwood Ave., Boston 15, Mass.

 

 

 

 

Humane Literature and Band of Mercy Supplies

For sale by the American Humane Education Society and the Massachusetts S. P. C. A.

180 Longwood Avenue, Boston 15, Mass., at these prices, postpaid.

Titles in bold-face type are of books or booklets

Our Dumb Animals, 1943, bound volume $1.50
Colored Posters, 17 x 28 inches, attrac-

tive pictures and verses, six in set .. 1.00
Colored Posters, 17 x 22 inches, eight in

the set .............. 5 cts. each; eight for 35 cts.

About the Horse

Care of the Horse ...................... $1.25 per 100
Humane Education Leaﬂet, No. 5 ...... .50 “ “
The Horse’s Prayer .................... .30 “ “

The Bell of Atri, poem by Longfellow .. .50 “ “

The Shame of It—Mutilating the horse
by setting up his tail. Dr. Rowley.
Four illus., 4 pp. ................... Free

About the Dog
Eulogy on the Dog, by Vest, post-card . .$0.50 per 100
Care of the Dog ....................... .75 “ “
Suggestions for Feeding Dogs . .. .. .. 1.50 “ “
Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 3 and 4 .50 “ “
“Don” and His Boy Scout Friends, J. P.

Lyons ............................... .50 “ “
The Story of Barry ................... .30 " “
Boots’ Day, play, for two boys and three

girls ................. 3 cts. each; ﬁve for 10 cts.
Distemper in Dogs, Dr. Schneider ..... Free

About the Bird
The Birds of God, 318 pp., illus. ....... cloth, $0.45
Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 1 and 2.$0.50 per 100
How the Birds Help the Farmer ........ .50 “ ”
The Air-Gun and the Birds ............ .50 “ “

About the Cat

Care of the Cat ..................... $0.75 per 100
The Cat in Literature ................ .50 “ “
Do Not Leave Your Cat to Starve ..... .50 “ “

“The Beggar Cat,” post-card, 6 cts. doz. .50 “ “

About Other Animals

Duration Feeding of the Dog and Cat.. Free
Care of Animals During Air Raids . Free
Farm Animals During Air Raids ....... Free
Do You Know About This? ............ Free
First Aid to Animals, Dr. Schneider, 8 pp. .$1.00 per 100
How to Kill Animals Humanely, 4 pp. . . .75 “ “

Humane Education Leaﬂet, No. 6, Animals .50 “ “
Humane Education Leaﬂet, No. 7, Farm

Animals ............................ .50 “ ”
Ways of Kindness ..................... .75 “ “
Care of Rabbits ....................... .30 “ “
Cruelty at Eastertime ................ .75 “ “
Professor Frog’s Lecture, 8 pp. ........ .75 “ “
Why the Toad is so Useful .30 “ “
Hints on the Care of Cows ............ .50 ” “
Directions for the Care of Swine ....... 1.00 “ "
A Wise Fish .......................... .50 “ “

The Jack London Club
Michael Brother of Jerry, Jack London, cloth, 75 cts.
What is the Jack London Club? . . . . . . . .$0.30 per 100
Foreword from “Michael Brother of

Jerry” .............................. .30 “ “
Do Wild Animals Prefer Captivity? Helen
Trevelyan, 4 pp. .................... .50 “ “

Films, Fakes and Facts, Helen Trevelyan,
4 pp. ...............................

Humane Education
Humane Education, by Dr. Francis H.

Rowley .............................. Free
The Relation of the Home to Character

Formation, Dr. Francis H. Rowley . . . . Free
The Animal or the Child, Dr. Rowley .. . Free
Humane Education and Spiritual Values,

Dr. Rowley ......................... Free
A Great Prophecy, Dr. Rowley ......... Free
Kindness and Humane Education ....... $1.00 per 100
Kindness Picture Book, 32 pp. ........ . 10 cts.

The Teacher’s Helper in Humane Educa-
tion, 32 pp. ......................... each, 10 cts.

An Early Start to Kindness, Lucia. F.
Gilbert, 48 pp. For ﬁrst and second
grades .............................. each, 10 cts.

“Be Kind to Animals” pennants ....... each, 25 cts.

The Humane Idea, Dr. Francis H. Rowley
cloth, 35 cts.

Friends and Helpers (selections for school
use) Sarah J. Eddy .................. cloth, $1.20

The B—K—T—A—Club, play, 3 cts. each; ten for 256.
“And a Little Child Shall Lead Them,”

play ...................... 3 cts. each; ten for 250.
I’ll Never Hunt Again, play 3 cts. each; ﬁve for 10 cts.
The Best Gift, play ....... 2 cts. each; six for 10 cts.
Let Us Have Pets! play, for three boys

and three girls ......... .2 cts each; six for 10 cts.
Humane Exercises ..................... $1.50 per 100

Humane Education the Vital Need, Dr.
Rowley, short radio address, 2 cts. each.$0.50 per 100

Humane Education, What to Teach and

How to Teach It .................... .50 “ “
A Talk with the Teacher .............. .50 “ “
Our Love for Animals, a short radio

address .................. 2 cts. each; 1.00 “ “
A Festival of Tender Mercies .......... .50 “ “
How to Organize a Society for the Pro-

tection of Animals .................. .50 “ “
Bookmark, with “A Humane Prayer” . . 1.00 ” “

Twenty Years of Be Kind to Animals
Week, Guy Richardson . .3 cts. each; ten for 25 cts.
Band of Mercy

“Be Kind to Animals” Buttons, two
styles—Humane Society or S. P. C. A. .$1.00 per 100

Buttons—white star, Band of Mercy, on
blue ground with gilt letters and border,

one cent each ....................... 1 00 “ “
Badges, gold ﬁnish, large, 10 cts., small 5‘cts.
“Band of Mercy” pennant ............. 25 cts.
Songs of Happy Life (56 pages, words

only) ............................... $3.00 per 100
Band of Mercy Membership Card ...... .50 “ “
How to Form Bands of Mercy ......... .50 “ “
Does It Pay, Story of one Band of Mercy .30 “ “
Band of Mercy Register ............... 10 cts.

Our Dumb Animals, monthly publication of our
Societies, $1 per year.

Please enclose remittance with orders for less than 31

AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
180 Longwood Ave., Boston 15, Mass.

 

 

THIS SPACE
CONTRIBUTED

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Since 1832
J. S. WATERMAN & SONS, Inc.

@thertakers
BOSTON—BROOKLINE—CAMBRIDGE

City and out-of-town service

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 148

Mother Carey’s Chickens

MOTHER Carey’s Chickens delight
in windy weather and old-time
sailors who gave this bird its poetic name
rather dreaded its appearance as they
felt sure a storm would soon follow. For
centuries sailors also believed that this
bird never visited land and that its egg
was laid at sea and carried under one
wing until it hatched. The sailors can
hardly be blamed perhaps as these little
birds who run along the tops of the
waves and dance along on the surface
of the water very rarely visit land ex—
cept at the nesting season. Then they
have to come down to earth like other
birds but choose remote, uninhabited
islets for their nesting grounds.

The Stormy Petrel, to give it its cor-
rect name, is a small bird about ﬁve or
six inches long and colored grayish black
or brown with some white markings. Be—
cause of its skimming ﬂight and slightly
forked tail it is sometimes called the sea
swallow, a name more often given to
some of the smaller terns. The little
petrel which is found in both hemispheres
spends its entire life skimming over the
waves and will follow a ship for days.

At the nesting season Mother Carey’s
Chickens come ashore usually on some
uninhabited island such as some of the
Shetland Islands and St. Kilda in the
North Atlantic and Boatswain-bird Islet
near Ascension in the south. Cima, an
uninhabited island in the Cape Verde
group, is another popular nesting ground.
The eggs are hidden in crevices among
the boulders and on Cima the birds dig
burrows sometimes for several feet into
the soft soil. Cima is also a petrel ceme-
tery as its small plateau is whitened with
the tiny bones and skulls of millions of
these birds who apparently sought it out
at the approach of death.

No sailor ever injured one of these
birds. Although in the old days their
appearance caused foreboding, the super-
stitious sailors were also afraid to molest
them and in fact were very careful not to.
The little petrels didn’t always get this
much consideration, however. The story
is told that the birds sometimes became
so fat that the Faeroe Islanders killed
them in quantities, strung wicks through
their bodies and used them as lamps.

 

Dictionary of Dogs
—By Aletha M. Bonner——
The Newfoundland

When featuring a dog review,

Much laudatory praise is due

The Newfoundland—a dog world famed,
That came from the small isle, as named.
A massive body, square-set thighs,

A noble head and kindly eyes;

A coast-guard dog, it knows no fear,

And oft saves life when death is near.

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

ANIMA LORE

FISH—Neither silver-ﬁsh, jelly-ﬁsh,
star-ﬁsh, nor shellﬁsh are real ﬁsh at
all. They each belong to entirely differ-
ent branches of the animal kingdom and
no two of them to the same branch.

GLASS SNAKE is not a real snake at all,

but just a legless species of lizard.

PREHENSILE—The habit of hanging
or swinging by the tail is said to be con-
ﬁned almost exclusively to animals of
the American hemisphere.

GROUNDED—All the wild ducks and
geese have to spend part of each sum-
mer in retirement. When their wing
feathers fall out at the molting season,
they are unable to ﬂy until they grow
new ones.

BABY GORILLAS will live in captivity
only when they are given companionship
and affection from some one they have
learned to love and trust.

BEES——The so-called stingless bees of
the tropics are the only ones able to get
any work out of the drones. Among
these bees the males produce wax the
same as the workers.

NATURALISTS report that wild ani-
mals, such as seals, which survive
around a thickly populated country are
much harder to tame than similar species
from remote regions where they have
had little experience with men.

SNAKES—Some of the climbing snakes
of the Malayan region are able to jump
considerable distances from one tree to
another.

CHESS PLAYER—The Emperor Charles
V is reported to have had a pet Mona
Monkey that was able to play chess.

NATURE—The height of activity in

nature is in the month of July.
BEE’S KNEES are its organs of taste.

GRASSHOPPER—If a man’s legs were
as strong as those of a grasshopper, in
comparison, he could jump over a one

family house.

Any unusual or interesting facts con—
cerning animals will be gratefully re-
ceived. Please mention source. Address
—Animalore, Our Dumb Animals, 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston 15, Mass.

August 1944

Dog Becomes Observer

EADQUARTERS, EUROPEAN
THEATER OF OPERATIONS.
People stare when Private First Class
LeRoy B. Van Guilder, 19, of Superior,
Wisconsin, wheels his ton-and—a-half engi-
neer dump truck along the winding roads
of England. And no wonder, for perched
on top of the cab is “T/5,” a little, black
and white dog.

Van Guilder, member of an Engineer
General Service Regiment, says T/5 ac-
quired the habit of riding on the cab the
ﬁrst day he attempted to go to work and
leave her behind. Disobeying orders, the
friendly puppy hopped on the running
board and climbed onto the hood. Van
Guilder, being in a hurry, didn’t have
time to force the issue, so he drove off to
the job, with the dog clinging grimly to
the bouncing hood.

She soon discovered that riding on the
roof of the cab was more comfortable,
and ever since has taken up that position
whenever Van Guilder takes the truck
out.

Quick, sure footwork keeps T/5 from
falling off. Private Van Guilder drives
over the rough, twisting English roads
at speeds up to 30 miles per hour.

Sometimes it gets a little too cold for
T /5 up there, so she climbs down onto
the hood and crouches low just in front
of the windshield. Then Private Van
Guilder has to stop and take her inside
the cab. Smart dog!

T /5 is also an excellent foot warmer.
She sleeps with Private Van Guilder,
“inside the covers and at the foot.” He
feeds her from what he calls her “silver
platter,” actual-1y the top from a ﬁve-
gallon can.

T/5 has a rival, “Beezy.” But just
now Beezy isn’t much competition since
he is some 4,000 miles away in Wisconsin.

 

"T/S'l rides along an English road.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

WW,W~_——--‘—>

 

 

 

 

 

Page 1’78

@112 iﬁanh of wrrrg or

mutant humane Ensign»

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
ERIC H. HANSEN, Executive Vice-President
WILLIAM A. SWALLOW, Secretary

PLEDGE

I will try to be kind to all living crea-
tures and try to protect them from cruel
usage.

The American Humane Education So-
ciety will send to every person who forms
a Band of Mercy of thirty members, and
sends the name chosen for the Band and
the name and post-ofﬁce address of the
president who has been duly elected, special
Band of Mercy literature and a gilt badge
for the president.

NEW BANDS OF MERCY

Nine Bands of Mercy were organized
during July. These were distributed as
follows:

Colorado ................... 1
Pennsylvania ........... . 1
Virginia ................. . . . '7

Total number Bands of Mercy. organ-
ized by Parent-American Society, 268,373.

SUMMARY OF FIELD WORK

Number of addresses made, 54.
Number of persons in audiences, 6,503

l
:13

Bond Salesman

HE little boy in the picture is ﬁve-i
year-old John Starr Craig, of East,

Arlington, Mass. Johnny has a dog with
which he would not part for anything
and in addition he is a superrsalesman of
War Stamps and Bonds. He has ap-
peared in many of the war loan drives
and has also helped in the drives of the
Red Cross and United War Fund.

 

John Starr Craig and his dog.

“hairs-”na—
. A)"IW - -

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Blackie’s Friend

By CALVIN WALKER

/

ACH morning they come—the little

boy and the little dog. The little
boy’s round full face is ﬁery and damp
with play. His cap lies to one side over
his unruly blond hair, and his fading
overalls are scarred with romping. The
little dog’s tongue works like a piston,
driven by heat under long black fur.
The boy leads him with a frayed and
weathered rope—but the little dog car-
ries his end in his mouth.

Each morning there are three faint
knocks on our front window. Three gentle
raps of a small knuckle and then, at our
response, the inevitable, “Blackie wants
a drink.” They go into the kitchen then,
a scurry of many feet, and the water is
drawn. The little boy waits while the
dog drinks; quick drinks, hastily lapped,
as if play time were a precious ﬂeeting
thing. And then, While the small dog
roams the rooms on aimless pattering
feet, the little [boy has his drink. Forti—
ﬁed, they meet in the front room, but
there is no time for grownup friendship.
The little dog treads nervously at the
door, his tongue pulsating rapidly
through the ﬁery puff of his breathing.

Then the boy Whips forward his frayed
old rope. “Blackie wants to go out,”
he says, and makes his way to the door.
The little dog gulps at the rope, ﬁnding
room among heated breath and slapping
tongue. Together they bound down the
stairs, miraculously; through the twists
and coils of the frayed old rope. And, on
the lawn, their two voices blending in
youth’s careless happiness, they begin a
tug-of-war. The little boy holds to the
rope grimly, his outstretched arm
whipped this way and that, his laughter
broken by the steady relentless yanking.
And Blackie, his round hot body close to
the ground, his voice deep-throated
through teeth clenched against needed
breathing, shakes his head wildly and
tugs in quick tireless jerks. Around and
around they go, over the punished lawn,
their laughter an infectious memorable
thing.

For some time they play there, in the
warm sunlight, unaware of older eyes
softening back the years. And then,
gradually, they begin to drift away; to
move into the broad verdant ﬁeld, their
tiny ﬁgures still bonded by a frayed and
weathered bit of old rope.

The little boy is learning early the values
of kindness. He will carry the memory
of that little black dog down the years
with him. He will be a ﬁner man for
having shared his play with that non-
descript little friend, Blackie.

y
//
/
/

September 191,1;

 

This knowing pigeon iniured a wing and was
befriended by Albert Smithl Manchester
VillageI Vermont. Under his care. the bird
was soon able to fly and disappeared only
to return when cold weather set in. When
it got warml off he would go again.- but
came back one day with a string tied to his
leg. From then on. he demanded entrance
every night and now is very much at home.

@

Reminiscence

Across the years extends
A golden ray of light,

That floods the heart with memories
Aglow the darkest night.

And like the sweetest song of birds,
It thrills, at coming down,

To spur, by noble thought and deed,
New kindness yet unborn.

Sweet are those treasured memories
Of verdant, buoyant youth;

When love was pure and constancy
Went hand in hand with truth.

When rustic beauty filled the land,
The sea, the air, the sky;

While glamour still lay hidden deep
With moral standards high.

How strange, seems now, the trend of life
Compared with olden time, ~
When God seemed nearer in each home
And made the home sublime—
The place of Christian love's abode,
Like in the cornerstone
On which, foundation firm, was laid
Our nation’s strength—alone.

Today, what forces running wild,
So deaf to Law Divine,

Would breach the walls the founders built
30 firm, in perfect line.

The wonders science has brought forth——
God’s gift to humankind,

Alas, man uses to destroy
His plan, all hearts to bind.

——George H. Sweetnam

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 208
“Fritz” May Tell Secrets

RITZ,” a wounded German war dog,
was brought to Britain from France
in an R. A. F. transport plane.

Wounded in action operating with a
German patrol, he was taken prisoner and
received ﬁrst aid from an advanced
British Army unit. Then, without de-
lay, he was ﬂown back to England with
a major from a British parachute regi-
ment as his escort. It is possible that
Fritz will be able to give valuable in-
formation. Then he may go back into
action—on the British side.

He will be “interrogated” at a British
War Dog’s school. The kind of training
he has received and the tricks he has
learned will supply valuable information.

——British Information Services

@

Mascot Guards Ship

TAKING her turn on watch when at
sea and rousing the crew from sleep
in the mornings, a small wire-haired
terrier is the most remarkable mascot in
the Merchant Navy. She is “Sussie,”
mascot of the S. S. Whitstable. When
the Whitstable is in port, the terrier
stands guard by the gangway and gives
warning of the approach of strangers.

At sea, as her watch on deck ends, she
goes below and awakens the relief watch.
Then she “turns in,” her bunk being in
the Master’s cabin.

Sussie likes her trips ashore, but she
never overstays her leave. The crew
swear by her, for, since she came aboard,
they have met no mines, U-boats, or air-
craft, and have had only good weather.

——British Information Services

.(lgyf.,.vmw _ WW .. ..,. . [6

   
 

”CHERBOURG" JOINS COAST GUARD

Coast Guard-manned LST now has two
mascotsI "Cherbourg" (left)I who ioined up
on D-Day and "Boots." from Allentown. Pa.
They are shown with Coast Guardsman

Robert W. Hilliard.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

ANIMA LORE

OWLS—The popular belief that owls
are blind or even partly so in the day-
light is a fallacy, as most owls can see
quite well in the daytime.

SNAKES—Several species of our larger
snakes that will let a large animal, like
a horse, come quite close to them with-
out getting alarmed, will flee for their
lives at the sight of a man.

CATFISH—The largest Mississippi
River catﬁsh will weigh over 200
pounds, but a European species found
in the Danube and the rivers of South
Russia grows as large as 500 to 600
pounds.

QUEENS—Though the queens of many
ants and termites have good strong
wings, they never make more than a
single flight in a lifetime.

TONGUE of the woodpecker is longer
than the bird’s head.

SWALLOWS rank high as insect de-
stroyers in every section of our country,
but in the South this bird is particularly
valuable in reducing the boll weevil
plague.

PORPOISE mothers nurse their young
on dry land.

THIEF—The most famous kleptoma-
niac among birds is the magpie.

BALD EAGLES are not actually bald.
This appearance is given by the white
feathers on the head and neck.

EAGLE is found on stamps more often
than any other bird, and is used as an
emblem by nearly half the countries of
the world.

AIR BORNE—The ﬁrst animals to
travel by air were a rooster, a duck and
a sheep, sent up in a balloon in 1783, in
France.

BEES—The tropics have about 250 spe-
cies of bees that cannot sting, but some
of them bite, instead.

@

Any unusual or interesting facts con-
cerning animals will be gratefully re-
ceived. Please mention source. Address
—Animalore, Our Dumb Animals, 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston 15, Mass.

November 1941;
Unrufﬂed

N odd story of the way in which pets
react to war experiences comes
from Dover.

“Peter,” a canary owned by a local
tradesman, has three times lost most of
his feathers through bomb and shell
blast, but he has never stopped singing.

Another Dover pet is “Mickey,” the
bomb-proof cat. When in the right mood
he will do a victory roll by standing on
all four feet and, at the word of com-
mand, rolling over on his back, come
up standing again.

The last time his home was hit, his
owners found him sitting on the pave—
ment outside the wrecked building. As
they arrived, he did a victory roll among
the debris.

——British Information Services

@

Animals Flown to Hospital

ICK and wounded mules which have

been working with the “Chindits”
hundreds of miles inside Burma are now
being ﬂown out to animal hospitals in
India.

A veterinary ofﬁcer told an observer
with the Chindits, “‘This is the ﬁrst
operation where unﬁt mules have been
ﬂown to hospitals. So far about a hundred
have been brought out and replacements
made. In the planes the mules are on
their best behavior. I don’t think they
realize they’re in the air. Pieces of
bamboo are specially ﬁtted into the planes
to keep the mules in their places should
the craft have a bumpy trip. Most of
those so far evacuated are suffering from
the animal equivalent of malaria.”

—British Information Services

 

"BLACKOUT" IN THREE INVASIONS

"Blackout." Coast Guard mascot. wears a
life iacket—iust in case. Three stars on his
service ribbon denote invasion battles on
beaches otSicily. Italy and Normandy.

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

Gift Subscriptions

. ’/ HE illustrations above show the exact size of our new folders
sent to all who are to receive gift subscriptions from friends or
relatives.

'M’For birthday gifts or other general occasions, the illustration on
the right is used, but for Christmas gifts, we have made up a special
card with an inside message printed in green, imbuing the whole with
a spirit of the Yuletide.

Now is the time to start thinking of Christmas gifts and there is
one sure way of pleasing everyone. That is by sending a subscription
to Our Dumb Animals—a gift that renews itself each month.

For anyone who likes animals (and who does not?) it is the ideal
gift. Give your friends the chance to enjoy reading each month true
stories about animals, factual articles about their lives and habits, ap—
pealing verse and interesting, story—telling pictures.

Dedicated to kindness, Our Dumb Animals is the oldest publi-
cation of its kind in the world and has continued, since 1868, to spon—
sor a better understanding of the value of animals to mankind. Adults
and children, alike, will ﬁnd interesting reading in its pages.

The price is $1.00 a year, but if ﬁve or more subscriptions are
sent, we offer a special rate of $.60 each.

Send your orders now to:

OUR DUMB ANIMALS
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston 15, Massachusetts

r/ '4
\

kg:

 




 

 

Tolerance: A Christian Grace
and Democratic Virtue

By GEORGE R. FARNUM
Assistant United States Attorney—General, 1927-30

NTOLERANCE is a malignant social disease. It is wholly at
variance with practical Christian ethics. It is absolutely in-
consistent with the fundamental principles and the true spirit

of democracy. It has no possible place in American life. It plays a large
part in the discords that disrupt families. It stirs up bitterness between
neighbors. It promotes strife in the community. It envenoms public
life. It poisons international relations.

Religious intolerance is an ugly thing. It spiritually impoverishes every
person in whose heart it dwells. Nevertheless, far too many people who
should know better, whether from incurable tactlessness, persisting prej-
udices, or some of the other perversities to which human nature is heir,
continue to do and say things that are bound to keep alive its blighting
spirit in our midst. The other day I tuned in on the radio just in time
to catch the words of a clergyman, "The religion is the only true
religion. It is the only religion that is divine in its origin.” Most people

who have any religion worthy of the name may feel that way about
their beliefs. But to proclaim it publicly is quite another thing, for
to declare that one’s own religion is the only true and divinely inspired
one is tantamount to publishing that all others are false and earthly.

_ Racial intolerance has played tragic havoc with the peace of the world
and a cruel role in the history of civilization. At the present moment
we are witnessing a terrible recrudescence abroad of this devastating
scourge. Its repercussions are being felt amid the heterogeneous popula—
tion of America, where in spite of our high ideals and fair protestations,
undue emphasis on race has not been effectively eliminated from political,
business and social life. This is most apparent in cosmopolitan commu-
nities through whose gates have ﬂowed for many years successive tides
of emigration from all parts of the world.

Tolerance toward men of all races, belief and conditions is one of the
cornerstones of the good life. Its possession is the mark of an enlight-
ened community, and of an educated and cultured individual. It re-
ﬂects high regard for all the potentialities of truth. It exalts frank
respect for freedom of individual conscience and exemplifies the charity
which has been called greater even than faith and hope.

—~Condensed from Living Tissue

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

August 191,1;

Names
0
Animals

By ALAN A. BROWN

GROUP OF "RIVER HORSES"

fascinating stories in the origins of

animals’ names. Take the alligator,
for example. It owes its name to the
Spaniards of many centuries ago. When
they ﬁrst saw the animal they noted its
resemblance to a huge lizard. For want
of something better, they called it by the
Spanish name for lizard, “e1 lagarto.”
The name “alligator” is an obvious
modiﬁcation.

In this connection, the derivation of
the name “crocodile” is interesting. When
the Greeks came to Egypt, many centuries
before the discovery of America, they
encountered the animal. They, too, recog-
nized the resemblance to a lizard and
bestowed upon it the Greek equivalent,
“krokodeilos,” from which the English
name was formed.

THERE are many interesting and

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Page 149

 

Imagination, too, played a part in the
naming of animals. Take the walrus, for

example. The name is of Scandinavian
origin, an inverted form of the Icelandic
“hross-hvalr,” a whale-horse. The name
was given to the animal because it some-
times makes a noise like the neigh of a
horse.

Similarly with the hippopotamus which,
according to the Greek, is a “river horse”
(hippos, “horse,” and potamos, “river”).
Surely, at ﬁrst glance, its resemblance to
a horse hardly extends beyond the fact
that both have four legs. But the dis-
cerning Greeks noticed that when the
hippopotamus is almost completely sub—
merged its pointed ears, prominent eyes
and large nostrils are grotesquely sug-
gestive of a horse’s head.

Often the names of animals and birds
contain pithy descriptions and revealing
sidelights of habit or habitat. Porcupine

a

Ants with Dairy Farms . . . .

ANY kinds of ants were in the
M dairy business long before hu-
mans ever thought of keeping
cows or other domestic animals. The ant
herds are made up of insects such as
plant lice, scale insects and mealy bugs
who yield honey dew instead of milk but
otherwise there is little difference. The
ants care for their cows, put them out
in the best pasture, even build stables
for them and also shelter their eggs over
winter in their nests.
These ant cattle all have much the same
habits whether they be scale insects,
mealy bugs or the familiar green plant

lice. They gather on the more tender

shoots and leaves of growing plants
where they pierce holes with their beaks
and suck the sap. They digest what they
need from it and excrete the rest from
their bodies as honeydew. During the
digestion some of the constituents have
also been changed into sugar so that the

honeydew is sweeter than the original
sap. The ants are extremely fond of this
sweet liquid and greedily lick it up from
where it falls on the leaves or, as many
ants have learned to do, milk it from the
insects themselves by stroking or tickling
them. Thus wherever one ﬁnds colonies
of plant lice, one can nearly always ﬁnd
ants, too.

Many species of ants have gone farther
and care for these insects just as we do
our own domesticated animals. They
watch over the colonies, ready to ﬁght off
any trespassers with a taste for honey-
dew or predatory insects who might
devour them. They move them from one
pasture to another where they ﬁnd better
feeding just as the farmer does his cows.
Some ants even build stables, little
shelters to protect them from the weather.
In some cases their eggs are actually
collected in the fall and sheltered in the
ant nest over winter. Then in the spring

means “Spiny pig,” from the Latin porous,
“pig,” and spina, “spine.” Beaver is
from the Anglo-Saxon beofer meaning
“brown water-animal.” The nightingale
sings in the night and that is the literal
meaning of its name, from the Anglo-
Saxon m’ht, “night,” and galom, “to sing.”
Penguin is literally “white head” from
the Welsh pen, “head” and gwyn, “white.”

The name canary has an odd origin.
The bird was named after the Canary
Islands, where it was ﬁrst found. But
the Islands were so named because of
their large dogs (“dog” in Latin is
cams). So the canary bird has a name
which means “dog!”

These little word stories barely touch
the interesting pastime of etymology of
animal names. You can spend many de—
lightful hours browsing through the dic-
tionary and reference books for similar
tales.

By JOHN H. SP‘ICER

the hatching young are carried out and
placed on the tender shoots of the grow—
ing plants. Not all of these ant cattle
are put to feed on the stems and leaves
as some species keep their cows in under-
ground burrows where they pasture on
the roots instead. Thus one of the com-
mon garden ants has been reported guilty
of distributing plant lice on corn roots.

This dairy business is carried on all
over the world wherever ants are found.
No doubt it is good business for the
thrifty, industrious ants, but from our
human point of View it is one of the most
harmful of their activities as this habit
of distributing plant lice often causes
considerable damage to cultivated plants
and crops. It doesn’t matter to the ants
if their chosen pasture happens to be
something we carefully planted. On the
contrary, a carefully nourished garden
plant is apt to be a lot more tender and
juicy than a wild one.

 

 

 

 




 

"\..~r—- 4*

 

 

 

 

 

THE PADDOCKS

John Smith, Proprietor
CHILDREN OUR SPECIALTY

Horses Boarded - For Sale - For Hire

BLUE HILLS
Rou’re I28. near Houghton's Pond
1010 Hillside - BLUehills 1884

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

KINDNESS BLOTTER

Its appropriate illustration and
Kindness Week message, printed
in red and black on gray blotting
has a universal appeal.

Price, ﬁfty cents a hundred.
Order now from

American Humane Education
Society

180 Longwood Ave., Boston 15, Mass.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Ready Reference

Nothing is so disconcerting as a
futile search for a particularly
desired copy of Our Dumb Animals.

Perhaps there was an issue that
you just didn’t get around to read;
perhaps you wanted to refer to
some particular article, story or
poem; perhaps you wanted to save
each issue for your children’s educa-
tion. Whatever it was, a copy or
two have become lost.

Here is a chance to maintain a
permanent ﬁle in your private
library, by buying a bound volume
of the 1943 issues. There you will
have ready reference to the many
informative articles on nature and
animal care. It will be an invalu-
able aid to your children in their
school work.

Furthermore, these volumes make
splendid gifts, especially to school
and public libraries. But whatever
the reason, send your order now for
the desired number of bound vol-
umes of

OUR DUMB ANIMALS for 1943
240 pages; 200 illustrations of
animals and birds
Price ........ $1.50
180 Longwood Ave., Boston 15, Mass.

 

 

 

 

 

 

Humane Literature and Band of Mercy Supplies

For sale by the AmericanrHumane Education Society and the Massachusetts S. P. C. A.

180 Longwood Avenue, Boston 15, Mass., at these prices, postpaid.

Titles in bold-face type are of books or booklets

Our Dumb Animals, 1943, bound volume $1.50
Colored Posters, 17 x 28 inches, attrac-

tive pictures and verses, six in set . . 1.00
Colored Posters, 17 x 22 inches, eight in

the set .............. 5 cts. each; eight for 35 cts.

About the Horse

Care of the Horse ...................... $1.25 per 100
Humane Education Leaﬂet, No. 5 ...... .50 “ “

The Horse’s Prayer...... .30 “ “
The Bell of Atri, poem by Longfellow .. .50 ” “

The Shame of It—Mutilating the horse
by setting up his tail. Dr. Rowley.
Four illus., 4 pp. ................... Free

About the Dog
Eulogy on the Dog, by Vest, post-card . .$0.50 per 100
Care of the Dog ....................... .75 “ ”
Suggestions for Feeding Dogs .......... 1.50 “ “
Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 3 and 4 .50 “ “
“Don” and His Boy Scout Friends, J. P.

Lyons ............................... .50 “ “
The Story of Barry ................... .30 " "
Boots’ Day, play, for two boys and three

girls ................. 3 cts. each; ﬁve for 10 cts.
Distemper in Dogs, Dr. Schneider ..... Free

About the Bird

The Birds of God, 318 pp., illus. ....... cloth, $0.45
Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 1 and 2.$0.50 per 100
How the Birds Help the Farmer ........ .50 “ “
The Air—Gun and the Birds ............ .50 ” “

About the Cat

Care of the Cat ..................... $0.75 per 100
The Cat in Literature ................ .50 “ “
Do Not Leave Your Cat to Starve ..... .50 “ “

“The Beggar Cat,” post-card, 6 cts. doz. .50 “ “

About Other Animals

Care of Animals During Air Raids . Free
Farm Animals During Air Raids ....... Free
Do You Know About This? . ........... Free
First Aid to Animals, Dr. Schneider, 8 pp. .$1.00 per 100
How to Kill Animals Humanely, 4 pp. . . .75 “ “

Humane Education Leaﬂet, No. 6, Animals .50 “ “
Humane Education Leaﬂet, No. 7, Farm

Animals ............................ .50 “ “
Ways of Kindness ..................... .75 “ “
Care of Rabbits ....................... .30 “ “
Cruelty at Eastertime ................ .75 ” “
Professor Frog’s Lecture, 8 pp. ........ .75 “ “
Why the Toad is so Useful .30 “ “
Hints on the Care of Cows ............ .50 " “
Directions for the Care of Swine ....... 1.00 “ “
A Wise Fish .......................... .50 “ “

The Jack London Club
Michael Brother of Jerry, Jack London, cloth, 75 cts.

What is the Jack London Club? ........ $0.30 per 100
Foreword from ‘ “Michael Brother of

Jerry” .............................. .30 “ “
Do Wild Animals Prefer Captivity? Helen

Trevelyan, 4 pp. .................... .50 “ “
Films, Fakes and Facts, Helen Trevelyan,

4 pp. ............................... .50 “ “

Humane Education
Humane Education, by Dr. Francis H.

Rowley .............................. Free
The Relation of the Home to Character

Formation, Dr. Francis H. Rowley . .. . Free
The Animal or the Child, Dr. Rowley .. . Free
Humane Education and Spiritual Values,

Dr. u Rowley ......................... Free
A Great Prophecy, Dr. Rowley ......... Free
Kindness and Humane Education . . . . . . .$1.00 per 100
Kindness Picture Book, 32 pp. ......... 10 cts.
The Teacher’s Helper in Humane Educa-

tion, 32 pp. ......................... each, 10 cts.

An Early Start to Kindness, Lucia F.
Gilbert, 48 pp. For ﬁrst and second

grades .............................. each, 10 cts.
“Be Kind to Animals” pennants ....... each, 25 cts.

The Humane Idea, Dr. Francis H. Rowley
cloth, 35 cts.

Friends and Helpers (selections for school
use) Sarah J. Eddy .................. cloth, $1.20

The B—K—T—A—Club, play, 3 cts. each; ten for 25¢.
“And a Little Child Shall Lead Them,”

play .. ................... 3 cts. each; ten for 250.
I’ll Never‘Hunt Again, play 3 cts. each; ﬁve for 10 cts.
The Best Gift, play ....... 2 cts. each; six for 10 cts.
Let Us Have Pets! play, for three boys

and three girls .......... 2 cts each; six for 10 cts.
Humane Exercises ..................... $1.50 per 100

Humane Education the Vital Need, Dr.
Rowley, short radio address, 2 cts. each.$0.50 per 100

Humane Education, What to Teach and

How to Teach It . .. .. .. . .50 “ “
A Talk with the Teacher .............. .50 " “
Our Love for Animals, a short radio

address .................. 2 cts. each; 1.00 “ “
A Festival of Tender Mercies .......... .50 “ “
How to Organize a Society for the Pro-

tection of Animals .................. .50 “ “
Bookmark, with “A Humane Prayer” . . 1.00 “ "

Twenty Years of Be Kind to Animals
Week, Guy Richardson . 3 cts. each: ten for 25 cts.

Band of Mercy

“Be‘ Kind to Animals” Buttons,

S. P. C. A .. .......$1.00per100
Badges, gold ﬁnish, large, 10 cts., small 5‘cts.
“Band of Mercy” pennant ............. 25 cts.
Songs of Happy Life (56 pages, words

only) ............................... $3.00 per 100
Band of Mercy Membership Card ...... .50 “ "
How to Form Bands of Mercy ......... .50 “ “
Does It Pay, Story of one Band of Mercy .30 “ “
Band of Mercy Register ............... 10 cts.

Our Dumb Animals, monthly publication of our
Societies, $1 per year.

Please enclose remittance with orders for less than 31

AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
180 Longwood Ave., Boston 15, Mass.

 

 

 

THIS SPACE
CONTRIBUTED

 

 

 

 

 

 

Since 1832
J. S. WATERMAN & SONS, Inc.

@thertakers
BOSTON—BROOKLINE—CAMBRIDGE

City and out-of-town service

 

 

 

4 . .

 

   
  

 

1'73‘7'1 SEYVRH‘ZWZ-ﬁﬁ'ym

' . -V€-:-RZ«¢ZM}E-‘m ~: name}: :~:-: mmxmm ‘




 

 

 

 

N ovember 19.41,

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Page 209

Animals in Politics

Elephants trumpet, and donkeys bray,
Quite loudly on election day!

the United States the popular
animal symbols of the two political
parties—the Republican Elephant, and
the Democratic Donkey—are to be found
in souvenir sheps, in newspapers, maga-
zines, and on poster pages.
The artist who brought these two ani-

EVERY presidential-election year in

mals into political circles was Thomas“

Nast, 'born in Bavaria, September 27,
1840. Coming with his parents to Amer—
ica in his sixth year, the boy was de-
lighted when the decision was made to
remain permanent-1y in “The States,” the
chosen home of the family being New

, York City.

The lad gave early evidenceof a great
talent for drawing through clever
sketches of comical faces and ﬁgures,
with animal life especially well portrayed.
These pen and ink efforts were soon
attracting attention, both at home and in
school, and realizing that their son had
unusual talent his parents placed him in
a class taught by the artist Theodore
Kaufmann.

Progress was rapidly made, and, ac-
cording to biographic records after only
six months of training under Kaufmann,
and a short course of study at the

By ALETHA M. BONNER

. Q

. l .
' o‘“ i
v \\\\ .
’ \m

‘\ ,lll MUM

0
,_‘
N

it

\\\\\\u \\\\\\\ /:///7/
PUBLIC: suppoPT _.
”ﬂ“ AI (I

National Academy of Designs, the young
artist became a draftsman for Frank
Leslie’s Illustrated Weekly — no small
feather in the cap of a sixteen-year-old
youth.

In his twentieth year young Nast went
to England as a “special artist” for the
Itlustmted News in London. From there
he was sent into Italy, to supply pictorial
outlines of the military campaign of the
famous leader Garibaldi. He returned
to his homeland, America, in 1861, and
began doing war sketches covering the
conﬂict of the states. One of his most
impressive pictures of this period was
entitled “Peace” —a drawing that at—
tracted wide attention.

Nast was soon in demand as a book
illustrator, gaining fame through his
originality in handling authors’ text. An
example of such originality is found in
his illustrations of Charles Dickens’
“Pickwick Papers.”

@

I.
9
Q

 

It was in 1874 that the Democratic
Donkey and the Republican Elephant
came into pen—and-ink being, and they
were enthusiastically received by the two
parties in question as mascot allies. These
two cartoon animals had been preceded
by the “Tammany Tiger,” but while this
beast was merely a reproduction of the
Tammany Club emblem, the Donkey and
Elephant drawings were of Nast’s own
invention.

The characteristics of the two animals
——the elephant, noted for its size and
strength; the donkey, for its swiftness
of action and determination of purpose
——might have had something to do with
the artist’s choice of such contrasting
creatures, biography does not say.

Throughout the Seventies, the Eighties
and into the Nineties, this naturalized-
American cartoonist continued his career
with great success. In May, 1902, he
was appointed by President Theodore
Roosevelt to the post of Consul-General,
in Ecuador, but this term of ofﬁce in the
South American country was of short
duration for the illustrator’s death oc-
curred December 7th of that year. A
reformer at heart, Nast’s realistic car-
toons have wielded a wholesome inﬂuence
down the years, and he has been described

s “the pictorial artist whose work was
unsurpassed in any like ﬁeld of creative
endeavor.”

Squirrel Aviators . . ~ . . . . . By JOHN H. swam

QUIRRELS are expert climbers but
S one family of them have not been
content with this and have taken to
ﬂying as well. They are not in the same
class with the birds and bats but belong
to the glider branch of Nature’s air force.
Instead of wings they have ﬂaps of skin
on each side stretching from the front
to the hind legs which bear them up like
a parachute. Then, to help out, their
tails are ﬂattened and dense instead of
being round and loose like other squirrels.
They are clumsy and awkward on the
ground but can sail through the air like
a feather from one tree to another;
sometimes traveling as much as a hun-
dred feet. The little creatures boldly
launch into the air from the tallest tree
tops. At ﬁrst they start fairly straight
down or on a slant but their course
gradually curves outward until they are
gliding parallel to the ground. Then the
ﬂight ends with an upward swerve that
lands them on another tree trunk where

 

they scramble aloft ready to repeat the
performance.

Flying squirrels are quite common in

North Amer-ica and other species are
found in Europe and Asia with several
kinds in the East Indies. Our American
ﬂyer is a little fellow, not a great deal
bigger than a large mouse, but other
countries have bigger kinds and one of the
East Indian varieties, called the taguan,
is about the size of a half-grown cat.

A good many of us have never seen a
ﬂying squirrel even when we live in a
locality where they may be quite numer-
ous. This is not surprising, for besides
being very shy and timid by nature, they
are active only at night, sleeping all day
in their nest in some hollow tree and not
coming out till dusk. With their large
eyes they can see quite well in the dark-
ness. If one happens to know where they
are sleeping, they can sometimes be
scared out in the daytime by tapping on
the tree trunk but even then one is not
likely to get much of a look at them, as
they are experts at dodging out of sight
behind a tree trunk or branch.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

Page 58

  
 

“"‘fffmrﬂ’

   

5),”; l

, .
1 Wm."
’4

 
 

\0~

  

I
.l ””””""'~m-...m

Animal Fact or Animal Fiction

Eight correct answers is passing. If yOu can answer twelve
correctly you are exceptionally good.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

  
 

M arch 1944

<5

  

\ \‘
null“ ‘Ihﬂml'lhllk‘

I
' 2 tin. ;: 3' ;..;
,l- . ~-\\ . 3 ’4 1 \' :3 § -
.3 ,- £1,‘7§§:§$;V/ ‘ . '}'I 3511)} 3mm” \\ I, E l \\ I

A \33 A 3“

1.

11.

12.

13.

14.

Snakes are the only animals able to
swallow things larger than them-
selves.

When a cow “loses her cud” the wise
owner stuffs rags into her mouth, en-
abling her to replace it.

“As dirty as a pig” is a base slander of
an animal that much prefers to keep
clean.

The frog has two means of defense.
It is so extremely slippery that it can
get away from almost any catcher.
Its long legs enable it to take great
jumps.

The heavy tread of the elephant in
the forest drowns out the approach
of other animals.

In winter a family of Bob Whites all
sleep in a circle with their heads
pointed lovingly together.

The black bear is usually quite as
glad to get away from man as man is
to get away from it.

True False

True False

True False

True False

True False

True False

True False

The chipmunk’s home is readily lo-‘

cated by the pile of dirt at the en-
trance.

A toad never takes a drink.

Birds migrate South in winter to es-
cape the cold.

The Hudson seal, a highly prized fur,
is from a species of seal found only
around Hudson Bay.

The toes of the coot have scalloped
ﬂaps

The house cat, as well as cats of the
wild, has a natural liking for catnip.
The turtle carefully lies in watch for
animals which might harm her eggs
carefully buried in the sand.

A class of birds in ﬂocks so numerous
that they broke down trees by their
weight have become extinct within
the memory of many now living.

True False
True False

True False

True False
True False

True False

True False

True False

 

How Well Do You Know Your Cat?

Answers

1. Eighteen.

2 The Manx cat. This cat originated on the Isle of Man sit-
uated in the Irish Sea, midway between England and Ire-
land. This cat is also called “rabbit cat” because it jumps
about like a rabbit, having short forelegs and long hind
ones.

3. Yes. The Mexican hairless cat.

4. Yes. They serve as feelers and are for protection. Ex-
tremely sensitive to touch and warn the cat when he is
near objects in the dark.

5. After dark the pupils of the cat’s eyes are wide open. A
metallic luster at the back of his eyes reﬂects the almost in-
visible light.

6. The rough tongue enables a cat to keep clean and also
helps to get every shred of meat off from a bone.

7. Down, as revealed by slow motion pictures made of a cat

 

 

 

———Bessie L. Putnam

How did you make out this time? Did you get twelve right?
If not, it might be wise for you to study up before taking your
next test. Perhaps you aren’t sure about your answers. If not,
look at this page in our April issue. -

lapping milk.
8. It enables him to pad along noiselessly and also protects
the claws from being broken or worn oﬁ.

9. Seeing, hearing, and touch are the most highly developed.
Smelling and tasting the least.

10. Egypt.

 




SAVE SOME FOR ME

,,
l

 

MAMMA

 

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

OUR NATIONAL ANTHEM
By Francis H. Rowley

ITH no thought of criticism, either of the words

or of themelody of our National Anthem, I am

conﬁdent many have wished that the words and
melody of two stanzas, or at least the last one of “America”—
"My Country ’Tis of Thee”——had been chosen instead of "The
Star Spangled Banner.”

More and more, nations as well as men have been leaving out

of account, in their national and international relations, the recog-
nition of those unseen values for which religion stands. Surely
the acknowledgment of One over all and above all and of the
reality of a moral universe has too long been a simple confession
of faith in which men of all creeds could join, to be disregarded
today.

Never more than in times like these should the heart of our
great nation be uplifted and strengthened by the inner vision of
the things that are unseen and Eternal. ,

Continue to sing, as we may and shall, that the Star Spangled
Banner is to “wave o’er the land of the free and the home of, the
brave,” millions of our people would gladly be called upon to join
again and again in those two stanzas of “America,” in which there
breathes the spirit of the noblest patriotism and a nation’s heart-
felt prayer. Here are the stanzas; both the words and the melody,
easy to learn and easy to sing:

“My country ’tis of thee, Our fathers’ God to. thee,
Sweet land of liberty Author of liberty,

Of thee I sing; Of thee we sing;

Land where my fathers died, Long may our land be bright,
Land of the Pilgrim’s pride, With Freedom’s holy light,
From every mountainside Protect us by thy might,

Let Freedom ring. Great God, our King.”

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

‘uﬂ

February 191,4

Dogs Once

Worth More Than Man

B-y WALTER K. PUTNEY

OGS of those good old days were

real canines and not show creatures.
They had to be proved useful and that
usefulness consisted of ﬁghting the large
predatory animals that prowled, espe-
cially at night. No colonial dog had a
pug nose, over-long body, extra short
legs or clipped ears. There were no
small dogs, no canines that won blue rib-’
bons.
_ As a matter of actual fact, many of
those dogs were worth more than their
masters, in services performed for the
community. For example, if a man killed
a wolf, he was paid a bounty of ﬁve shill-
ings; but, if his dog did the same thing,
unaided, the bounty was doubled. If a
dog was especially noted for his ability
to track down and kill marauders, the
town fathers required that dog to be
ready for service at any and all times.
His master was given assistance in
planting, cultivating and harvesting his
crops, and frequently relieved of all town
duties, such as repairing roads, holding
minor ofﬁce and doing the work of watch-
ing.

Another example of the higher worth
of the dog is noted in the time when that
dog was requested, by another commu-
nity, to hunt down a predatory animal that
had eluded all home dogs. The owner took
his dog to that town and, with others,
went on the trail of the beast. All the
owner received was ammunition‘for his
gun, a place to sleep and plenty to eat.
The dog received the best of food, a good
sleeping place and, if he was successful
in tracking down the animal wanted, he
was received as a hero, a banquet was
held in his honor, and his master received
a reward for the good services performed
by the dog.

As long as a dog faithfully did his bit
toward keeping the town freed from pre-
dacious beasts, he and his master had
many privileges; but, when a dog grew
too old to ﬁght, he was retired and a new
dog was presented to his master, in ap-
preciation of what the old dog had done
in life.

 

Dictionary of Dogs
'——By Aletha M. Bonner—

The Beagle

The Beagle’s past is quite obscure,

But since a “hound” in miniature,

It is supposed his family-tree

Had root in the Hound Family.

Black, white, or tan are his coat-marks,
He leads a chase with throaty barks—
Being a most determined worker,

He puts to shame a lazy shirker!

 

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Speaking

Page 29

of Myths

By NORMAN C. SCHLICHTER

luxe of how tenaciously a myth
can stick in the human mind once
it is lodge-d there.

The Saracens held that if a bear or
wolf, that came out of its wintry cave to
seek a drink at a running brook in early
spring, saw its shadow, there would be
bad weather for at least another month
after it went back for a little more winter
napping.

Those who have delved deep into
Egyptian folklore remind us that the
Saracens got this tradition from the
Egyptians, and they in turn are credited
with having received it from cruder
peoples.

QUR Groundhog Day is proof de

The Crusaders under Peter the Her-
mit, when campaigning in the Holy Land,
picked up the Saracen version of the
myth and spread it on their return
throughout western Europe.

Since no bears or wolves lived in Eng-
land, the otter there inherited the ancient
fame of these wilder creatures as weather
forecasters.

The Puritans brought to our shores
the myth of the otter’s early spring mean-
derings, and the effect on the weather of
its seeing or not seeing its shadow. With

 

no otters here the mantle of their spring-
time fame fell on our humble woodchuck.

In spite of the fact that our boys and
girls all over the land are learning in
school that our wood-chucks don’t leave
their winter beds until late March at the
earliest, the myth as to February second
gets a ﬁrmer grip upon our national mind
with each new year.

How many readers know that these

little fellows of great fame have good

singing voices? All naturalists who
know them well attest to this.

Mr. Ernest Ingersoll, in his “Wild
Neighbors,” tells of the groundhog that
for a long time on the Wellesley College
chapel lawn joined in the morning chapel
songs with what he calls a “clear so-
prano” voice.

&

Endowed stalls and kennels are needed
in the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital.
Payments of thirty-ﬁve dollars for a
kennel or seventy-ﬁve dollars~ for a stall
will insure a suitable marker inscribed
with donor’s name. Terms of permanent
endowment of free stalls and kennels
will be given upon application to the
Treasurer, 180 Longwood Ave~., Boston.

Three Lions Photo

STRANGE DINNER COMPANIONS

A Great Dane eats from the same bowl as his strange friend. the Coati-Mundi. Often
tamed as a pet' the latter animal comes from South and Central America. As seen in
the picture. the tail is often prominently banded and the Coati is recognized by its long
body and tail and elongated. upturned snout. Coatis are gregarious and arboreal in habit.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

\c‘
'|\ P 'n I
[¢5s ‘ do!“ ‘
““9““ 0
91““ “ca" 05¢ ‘
(‘6‘ '
v'°

0‘“
g!“

N‘
g“

r“ “i“:
:‘n'mﬁ

a“
. \\¢ ’9 .
$ “\ ‘ ‘u‘*°b\¢
0

These four preHy WAVES. s’raﬁed a+ Parris IslandI S. C., help ouwL a cocker Somewhere in +he Pacific. +hese pefs
spaniel: mily a’r mealrime.

TIME ON HIS PAWS

"Sal’ry." masco’r on a Coas+ Guard assaul’r
franspon‘. hops on a boom or gun barrel +o
wa’rch his shipma’res swab down +he decks.

OVER THE SIDE

De’rermined +0 follow
his Coasl' Guard
ma’res- +o +he beach,
"Hobo" hops on’ro a
war machine which is
abou’r +o be hoisfed
info a landing craf’r.

NARY A .WHIMPER

Coas+ Guard masco’r.
"Sparky." has an iniured
paw dressed by a pharma—
cisl's ma’re and resolves'
+o avoid high door sills;

PHOTOS BY

U. S. Coas’r Guard
U. 5. Marine Corps

p

 

 

COZY BOUDOIR FOR "TALASEA"

Al Cape Gloucesler. liHle ”Talasea."
kiHen masco’r. sleeps in a
helme’r slung from her

mas’rer's bunk.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

3%“: A I‘A.’

41-51. 13.43343
‘ '1

 

@m' 44m 7ttle

Climaxing the ﬁlm, appears our own Presi—
dent, Dr. Francis H. Rowley, who explains to
the audience, in his own inimitable manner, the
meaning of the ﬁlm’s title and why it was chosen
to carry our message to the worla’. Here is what
he says:

"Out of the Heart.” Why has this title been
given to this picture? Because, of the everlast—
ing truth in that ancient proverb, that "out of
the heart are the issues of life.”

What does that mean? That out of your
heart, out of my heart, and out of every human
heart come life’s ﬁnest virtues. Alas, also, out
of the heart come life’s basest things—its cruel-
ties and its crimes. What we love and what we
hate tell us what we are.

a..‘,.t

, -. ' .‘ ,.._.r; . . ~ .
.- 3 _,.. ~, -...<
d . '. x. We ~ ' - ' ? ~. ..- k“
“9 C‘s-13h. .-. T -‘ *.7.:

6‘

A

 

THIS is the title of the Society’s new ﬁlm, in sound and
color. It was photographed and arranged by United Special-
ists and plans are now under way to stimulate interest in
its showing.

Months of careful planning; reading and rereading of
the script; careful selection of scenes, characters and com-
mentators have resulted in a picture of the highest type.
Prepared in one and two—reel versions, it will be placed in
all the largest university extension and school ﬁlm libraries
from which complete national distribution can be made
more readily.

Theone—reel version has a running time of from ten to
eleven minutes and depicts the appealing story of a boy, his
dog, and the mutual lessons learned from close association.

What are tIOSe noblest characteristics that,
born in our hemts, should be our glory? Love,

kindness, justidli

To awaken and foster these

uplifting emotions in the hearts, primarily of
youth, is the gpal of these two Massachusetts
Societies, and, :iﬁdeed, of all such humane organ-
izations. To thﬂl end this picture is being ﬁlmed.

Back upon ul‘gas with the touch of a redeem—
ing hand, com‘is every deed of kindness done
for another’s Eﬁke, be that other our human
brother or somi‘xlowly beast or bird.

Now you k1 10w why this picture bears the
title, “Out of ,Ihe Heart.”

 

The two—reel ﬁlm, about twenty-two
minutes running time, continues with
the story of our Society’s activities, with
many scenes from our famous Angell
Memorial Animal Hospital, Society
headquarters, and various branches.

The ﬁlm is adaptable for schools or
other group meetings, for the teaching
of character formation and will be
enjoyed by young and old, alike. It is
also. valuable to societies in either the
long or short version—the one reel to
be used for Humane Education purposes
and to tie in with other societies’ activi-
ties; the longer version ﬁlling all the
former speciﬁcations and, in addition,
showing what can be accomplished in
building up an organization for maXi—
mum animal protection.

A leaﬂet is now being prepared which
will give all necessary information on
how to procure a copy of the ﬁlm for
showing and it is planned to produce
a booklet for teachers who will wish to
use the picture as part of a teaching
pr01ect.

We shall welcome inquiries.

American Humane Education Society

180 Longwood Avenue
Boston 15, Mass.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

May 1944

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Page 8’7

 

A’r a busy Kansas Ci’ry in’rersecfion. Brownie takes up his work with his masfer.
faking Mildred Turnipseed across +he sfree’r.

He is shown here

Brownie’s helpfulness and winning ways make him a—

Popular Trafﬁc Dog

CHOOL children in a section of
Kansas City, Missouri, have been
rewarded for their kindness to a

stray German Shepherd dog which wan-
dered into the neighborhood one day.
After feeding and caring for the dog,
which was then a mere pup, the children
suggested to William Henry Proper, the
genial trafﬁc ofﬁcer on the busy inter-
section which they crossed daily going
to and from school, that he adopt the
dog. He assented, and today the children
have a canine pal who constantly looks
after their welfare as they cross the
street.

“Brownie,” as he was ﬁnally named, is
now two years old, and has been made a
member of the Kansas City police force for
his loyal duty on the corner. He learned
with no training, but simply by watching
his master, to see small children safely
across the street. Taking the children
ﬁrmly by the hand or wrist, he ﬁrst looks
in both directions before he leaves the
sidewalk, to see that he has sufﬁcient time
to cross the street. Then he escorts them

across, allowing no one to loiter on the
way. If cars are coming too closely from
either direction, Brownie refuses to let
the children cross.

Recently adults and larger children
have come to depend on Brownie for
getting safely across the corner. For his
work in seeing one woman across the
street each day, he is rewarded regularly
with dog biscuits.

Usually, Brownie just supplements the
work of Mr. Proper on the corner, and
escorts persons across while his master
watches out for careless drivers. But
sometimes when Trafﬁc Ofﬁcer Proper is
forced to leave the corner during an
emergency, Brownie takes over by him-
self and quite capably attends to the
pedestrian trafﬁc.

Trafﬁc ofﬁcials of the Kansas City
police department feel that Brownie
should really have some share of the
credit for the city’s ﬁne safety record,
which includes no elementary children
killed going or coming from school in six

By DOROTHY LOWRY

years. He has been given a regulation
cap and badge for his work and comes in
for regular citations from ofﬁcers for his
trafﬁc handling.

Brownie keeps regular hours on the
corner, and doesn’t allow extracurricular
activities to interfere with his career. He
goes on the job at the same time as his
master, and doesn’t knock off work until
he does. Recently he took on the addi-
tional duty of selling war bonds. Brownie
takes pedestrians by the hand or wrist
and leads them to the war bond booth
which is located on the corner. It was
another trick that wasn’t taught him—
he just picked it up by watching Mr.
Proper do the same thing.

The dog is two years old, has a well-
proportioned head and kind eyes. He has
a black muzzle, black ears and a reddish-
brown coat. Both the young and old are
counted in his host of friends and he has
an especial liking for men in uniform,
many of whom remember him after they
get overseas and write back requesting
his photograph.

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

r '9
“Ion-{cues '95 Cal—09

Editor — WILLIAM A. SWALLOW
Assistant Editor — WILLIAM M. MORRILL

if?

 

 

IMPORTANT!
OUR MAIL ADDRESS

No mail whatsoever should be sent
to us at 46 Central Street. Nor-
wood. Massachusetts. This address is
simply one which we must maintain
in compliance with Post Office reg-
uIations.

Mail so addressed is sometimes
delayed a matter of weeks before we
receive it.

 

CORRECT ADDRESS

We ask your cooperation in this
matter. It will help us to serve you
more promptly if you will use our
correct address.

At the bottom of this column you
will find the address to which all com-
munications should be sent.

Please use it now and in all future
correspondence.

 

 

 

 

 

 

SUBSCRIPTION RATES

One dollar per year. Postage tree to any part of
the world.

All dollar subscriptions sent direct to the ofﬁce
entitle the sender to membership in either of our
two Societies.

MANUSCRIPTS relating to animals. particularly
prose articles of about 300 words. are solicited.
We do not wish to consider prose manuscripts
longer than 500 words nor verse in excess of twenty-
four lines. The shorter the better. All manuscripts
should be typewritten and an addressed envelope
with full return postage enclosed with each offering.

Published monthly by The Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals. Publica-
tion ofﬁce. 46 Central Street. Norwood, Massachu-
setts. Entered as second-class matter. June 29.
l9l7. at the Post Ofﬁce at Norwood. Mass.. under
the Act of March 3. I879. Acceptance for mailing
at special rate of postage provided for in section

I;O3. Act 01‘ October 3. I9l7. authorized. July
I . I9l9.

Address all communications to Editorial Office.
I80 Longwood Avenue. Boston l5. Mass.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Founded by Geo. T. Angell. |868

U. S. Trade Mark Registered
VOLUME 77—No. 7

JULY. I944
PUBLISHED BY
THE MASSACHUSETTS SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS
AND
THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY

it

Officers

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY. President
ERIC H. HANSEN. Executive Vice-President
ALBERT A. POLLARD. Treasurer
WILLIAM A. SWALLOW. Secretary
PEABODY. BROWN. ROWLEY & STOREY. Counsel

1"?

Trustees of Permanent Funds

JOHN R. MACOMBER. Chairman of the Board, First Boston Corporation

CHARLES G. BANCROFT. Vice-President and Chairman Finance Committee,
United Shoe Machinery Corporation

CHARLES E. SPENCER. JR.. President. First National Bank of Boston
79?

Massachusetts S, P, C, A. American Humane Education Society

JOSEPH MOONEY, Treasurer’s Assistant _ Field Workers of the Society
Prosecuting Officers in Boston Mrs. Alice L. Park, Palo Alto, California

. Mrs. James D. Burton Harriman Tennessee
I h I t A b I ) L wood 6100 r r
Te ep one (Comp am 5, m u ances ong Mrs. Florida L. Byrne, Tacoma, Washington

L. WILLARD WALKER, Chief Officer Mrs. Katherine Weathersbee, Atlanta, Georgia

Rev. Dr. F. Rivers Barnwell, Fort Worth, Texas
HARRY L. ALLEN HOWARD WILLAND

* Rev. John W. Lemon, Ark, Virginia
HARVEY R' FULLER J- ROBERT SMITH Miss Lucia F. Gilbert, Boston, Massachusetts

Rev. R. E. Griffith, De Land, Florida
Field Representative
Dr. Wm. F. H. WentzeI, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

Foreign Corresponding Representatives

County Prosecuting Officers
HERMAN N. DEAN, Boston Middlesex and Norfolk
FRED T. VICKERS, Wenham Eastern Essex

WILLIAM W. HASWELL, Methuen Western Essex

E. J. H. Escobar ...................... Colombia

JOSEPH E' HASWELL» Methuen Western Essex Luis Pareja Cornejo .................... Ecuador
FRED F. HALL, Springfield Leonard T. Hawksley ................... Italy
Hempden. Hampshire and Franklin 5. c. Batra ........................... India

HARRY C. SMITH, Worcester Worcester Mrs. Marie C. E. Houghton .............. Madeira

CHARLES E. BROWN, Attleboro, Bristol and Plymouth . W A- .T- 'shkahiah ------------------- flail?
......... ur
HAROLD G. ANDREWS, Hyannis Mrs. Alice W. Manning ........ Y
Barnstable, Dukes and Nantucket 7%

T. KING HAS ELL, P'tt f' Id B k h' e , . .
W I 5 la er 5 Ir Angell Memorial Animal Hospital
Rest Farm for Horses and Small Animal Shelter, and Dispensary for Animals

Methuen

180 Longwood Avenue—Telephone Longwood 6100
W. W. HASWELL, Superintendent

Veterinarians

E. F. SCHROEDER, D.V.M., Chief of Staff
*6. B. SCHNELLE, V.M.D., Asst. Chief
R. H. SCHNEIDER, V.M.D.

T. o. MUNSON, V.M.D.
c. L. BLAKELY, V.M.D.
*M s
L H

Other Small Animal Shelters of M. S. P. C. A.

Boston, I80 Longwood Avenue
Springfield. 53-57 Bliss Street

Pittsfield, 224 Cheshire Road

Attleboro, 3 Commonwealth Avenue
Hyannis, State Road, Rte. 28, Centerville
Wenham, Cherry Street

Brockton, 226 Pearl Street

. ARLEIN, D.V.M.
* . . SCAMMAN, D.V.M.
*W. A. WILCOX, D.V.M.
N. L. GREINER, D.V.M.
FRED KEEFE, V.S., B.V.Sc.

Branches and Auxiliaries H. R. STEADMAN, Jr” V.S., B.V.Sc., Intern

Northampton Branch of Mass. 5. P. c. A.—PROF. . ALLEN, Su erimendem
g. R. LIEDER, Pres.; MISS ELIZABETH A. FOSTER, HARRY '- P
reas.

Springfield Branch

Telephone 4-7355
53-57 Bliss Street, Springfield, Mass.

Veterinarians

Holyoke Branch of Mass. 5. P. C. A.——AARON M.
BAGG, Pres.; BROOKS WHITE, Treas.

Springfield Branch Auxiliary—MRS. ROBERT R.
MILLER, Pres.; MRS. H. W. STOCKBOWER, Treas.

A. R. EVANS, V.M.D H. L. SMEAD, D.V.M.
Winchester Branch Auxiliary—MISS GLADYS FOLTS, *R

. L. 'LEIGHTON, V.M.D.
Vice—Pres'; MRS’ DANIEL C' DENNETT’ “935- H. B. SIEGLE, D.V.M.

H. J. KOPP, V.M.D.

Boston Work Committee of Mass. S. P. C. A.—-— *On leave Of absence—military service

MRS. GEORGE D. COLPAS, Chairman.

 




 

 

Ready Reference

Nothing is so disconcerting as a
futile search for a particularly
desired copy of Our Dumb Animals.

Perhaps there was an issue that
you just didn’t get around to read;
perhaps you wanted to refer to
some particular article, story or
poem; perhaps you wanted to save
each issue for your children’s educa-
tion. Whatever it was, a copy or
two have become lost.

Here is a chance to maintain a
permanent ﬁle in your private
library, by buying a bound volume
of the 1943 issues, There you will
have ready reference to the many
informative articles on nature and
animal care. It will be an invalu-
able aid to your children in their
school work.

Furthermore, these volumes make
splendid gifts, especially to school
and public libraries. But whatever
the reason, send your order now for
the desired number of bound vol-
umes of

OUR DUMB ANIMALS for 1943
240 pages; 200 illustrations of
animals and birds

Price .......... $1.50
180 Longwood Ave., Boston 15, Mass.

 

 

 

 

KINDNESS BLO‘TTERS

The new edition of our Be Kind
to Animals Week blotter is just off
the press.

Its appropriate illustration and
Kindness Week message, printed
in red and black on gray blotting
has a universal appeal.

Price, ﬁfty cents a hundred.

Order now from

American Humane Education
Society

180 Longwood Ave., Boston 15, Mass.

 

 

 

 

 

Humane Films

There are no better silent humane
pictures than

THE BELL OF ATRI

illustrating Longfellow’s poem of
the same title
and

IN BEHALF OF. ANIMALS

showing the practical work of the
Massachusetts S. P. C. A., its Rest
Farm for Horses at Methuen, and
the Angel] Animal Hospital
For terms of sale or rent, address

Secretary, 180 Longwood Ave.
Boston

 

 

 

 

Humane Literature and Band of Mercy Supplies

For sale by the American Humane Education Society and the Massachusetts 5. P. C. A.

180 Longwood Avenue, Boston 15, Mass., at these prices, postpaid.

Titles in bold-face type are of books or booklets

Our Dumb Animals, 1943, bound volume $1.50
Colored Posters, 17 x 28 inches, attrac-
tive pictures and verses, six in set .. 1.00

Colored Posters, 17 x 22 inches, eight in
the set . .. .. . .5 cts. each; eight for 35 cts.

About the Horse

Care of the Horse . . . . . . . ..$1 25 per 100

Humane Education Leaﬂet, No. 5 ...... .50 “ “
The Horses Prayer....... .30 “ “
The Bell of Atri, poem by Longfellow .. .50 “ "

The Shame of It—Mutilating the horse
by setting up his tail. Dr. Rowley.
Four illus., 4 pp. ................... Free

About the Dog
Distemper in Dogs .................... Free
Eulogy on the Dog, by Vest, post-card . .$0.50 per 100
Care of the Dog ....................... .75 “ “
Suggestions for Feeding Dogs .......... 1.50 “ “
Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 3 and 4 .50 “ “
“Don” and His Boy Scout Friends, J. P.

Lyons ............................... .50 “ “
The Story of Barry ................... .30 “ “
Boots’ Day, play, for two boys and three

girls ................. 3 cts. each; ﬁve for 10 cts.
Distemper in Dogs, Dr. Schneider Free

About the Bird
The Birds of God, 318 pp., illus. ....... cloth, $0.45
Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 1 and 2.$0.50 per 100
How the Birds Help the Farmer ........ .50 “ “
The Air-Gun and the Birds . . .50 “ “

About the Cat
Care of the Cat ....................... $0.75 per 100

The Cat in Literature ................ .50 “ “
Do Not Leave Your Cat to Starve ..... .50 “ “
“The Beggar Cat,” post-card, 6 cts. doz. .50 “ “
About Other Animals
Duration Feeding of the Dog and Cat.. Free
Care of Animals During Air Raids Free
Farm Animals During Air Raids ....... Free
Do You Know About This? ............ Free

First Aid to Animals, Dr. Schneider, 8 pp. .$1.00 per 100
How to Kill Animals Humanely, 4 pp. . . .75 “ “
Humane Education Leaﬂet, No. 6, Animals .50 “ “
Humane Education Leaﬂet, No. 7, Farm

Animals ............................ .50 “ “
Ways of Kindness ..................... .75 “ “
Care of Rabbits .30 “ “
Professor Frog’s Lecture, 8 pp. . . . . . .. . .75 “ “
Why the Toad is so Useful .30 “ “
Hints on the Care of Cows ............ .50 “ “
Directions for the Care of Swine ....... 1.00 “ “
A Wise Fish .......................... .50 ” “

The Jack London Club
Michael Brother of Jerry, Jack London, cloth, 75 cts.
What is the Jack London Club? . .. . . . . .$0.30 per 100

Foreword from “Michael Brother of
Je11y” .30 ” “

Do Wild Animals Prefer Captivity? Helen

Trevelyan 4 pp. .................... .50 “ “
Films, Fakes and Facts, Helen Trevelyan,
4pp. .50 “ “

Humane Education
Humane Education, by Dr. Francis H.

Rowley .............................. Free
The Relation of the Home to Character

Formation, Dr. Francis H. Rowley . . . . Free
The Animal or the Child, Dr. Rowley .. . Free
Humane Education and Spiritual Values,

Dr. Rowley ......................... Free
A Great Prophecy, Dr. Rowley . . . . .. .. . Free
Kindness and Humane Education .. .. ..$1.00 per 100
Kindness Picture Book, 32 pp. ......... 10 cts.

The Teacher’s Helper in Humane Educa-
tion, 32 pp. ......................... each, 10 cts.

An Early Start to Kindness, Lucia F.
Gilbert, 48 pp. For ﬁrst and second
grades .............................. each, 10 cts.

“Be Kind to Animals” pennants ....... each, 25 cts.

The Humane Idea, Dr. Francis H. Rowley
cloth, 35 cts.

Friends and Helpers (selections for school
use) Sarah J. Eddy .................. cloth, $1.20

The B—K—T—A—Club, play, 3 cts. each; ten for 25c.

“And a Little Child Shall Lead Them,"
play ...................... 3 cts. each; ten for 25c.

I’ll Never Hunt Again, play 3 cts. each; ﬁve for 10 cts.
The Best Gift, play ....... 2 cts. each; six for 10 cts.

Let Us Have Pets! play, for three boys
and three girls . .. .. .. .. .2 cts each; six for 10 cts.

Humane Exercises .$1. 50 per 100
“Be Kind to Animals” blotters ......... $0. 50 per 100

Humane Education the Vital Need, Dr.
Rowley, short radio address, 2 cts. each. $0. 50 per 100
w$1 50 H i‘

Humane Education, What to Teach and

Humane Exercises . .. . . .

How to Teach It .50 “ “
A Talk with the Teacher .............. .50 “ “
Our Love for Animals, a short radio ..

address .................. 2 cts. each, 1. 00 “

A Festival of Tender Mercies .......... .50 “ “
How to Organize a Society for the Pro- .. ..
tection of Animals .................. .50

Bookmark, with “A. Humane Prayer” .. 1.00 ” “

Twenty Years of Be Kind to Animals
Week, Guy Richardson .3 cts. each; ten for 25 cts.

Band of Mercy
“Be Kind to Animals’ Buttons, two
styles—Humane Society or S. P. C. A. ..$1 00 per 100

Buttons—white star, Band of Mercy, on
blue ground with gilt letters and border,

one cent each ....................... 1.00 ” “
Badges, gold ﬁnish, large, 10 cts., small 5cts.
“Band of Mercy” pennant . .. .. .. . .. . 25 cts.
Son 5 of Happy Life (56 pages, words

oily) ............................... $3.00 per 100
Band of Mercy Membership Card ...... .50 “ “
How to Form Bands of Mercy ......... .50 ”
Does It Pay, Story of one Band of Mercy .30 “ “
Band of Mercy Register ............... 10 cts.

Please enclose remittance with orders for less than 31

AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
180 Longwood Ave., Boston 15, Mass.

 

 

THIS SPACE
CONTRIBUTED

 

 

 

 

 

 

Since 1832
J. S. WATERMAN & SONS. Inc.

(Hubertakers
BOSTON—BROOKLINE—CAMBRIDGE

City and out-of-town service

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

Page 152

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Humane Key Award

Judges award prize in national competition

FTER careful consideration on the
A part of the judges, we are happy

to announce the winner of our
National Humane Key Contest which
ended last April.

A prize of $150 in cash and an attrac-
tive 14-carat gold key, suitably engraved,
was awarded to Mrs. Laura T. Ayres, of
Fort Plain, New York, for the most out-
standing entry.

Mrs. Ayres’ contribution consisted of
units and project materials suitable for
use in kindergarten through the sixth
grade. Her entry was made up into two
portfolios whose contents will serve as
reference sources in planning humane
education work. In the introduction,
acknowledgment was given to humane
leaders and educators for their contri-
butions in the ﬁeld of humane education.

Following the introduction, Mrs. Ayres
outlined teaching units and objectives for
a year’s Band of Mercy work adapt-ed to
the following groups:

Kindergarten through second grade

Third and fourth grades

Special ungraded class

Fifth grade

Sixth grade

Next appeared pictures and accounts
of domestic animals, which made short

visits to the schools, and pictures of the

feeding stations at each school.

There were samples of project mate-
rials—pictures, stories, songs, games and
handwork to accompany the teaching
units.

Also listed were records of assembly
programs and motion pictures pertaining
to animal protection, and bibliographies
for teachers and pupils.

Mrs. Ayres attended Jackson College,
Medford, Mass., and was graduated from
St. Lawrence University. After gradu—
ating, she taught English at Silver Creek,
N. Y., and has since done substitute
teaching over the course of the last ten
years. Her not inc'onsiderable experi-
ence with humane work has eminently
ﬁtted her for her Band of Mercy work
and the teaching of humane education.

The over-all value of Mrs. Ayres’ entry
is that the projects have been tried and
found satisfactory by her in the schools
of Fort Plain, Canajoharie and Sand Hill
Rural School.

While no second prize was offered, a
splendid thesis on the subject of humane
education, submitted by Mr. Dean W.
Kuykendall, Assistant Professor of J our-
nalism and Education at Michigan State
College, East Lansing, Michigan, re-
ceived such favorable comments from the

 

.THE JUDGES COMPARE NOTES ON A FEW CONTEST ENTRIES
Left to right: Dr. Walter F. Downey, Dr. Francis H. Rowley, Mr. Eric H. Hansen and
Mr. Elliott P. Frazier.

August 194/,

Mrs. Laura T. Ayres

judges that it was decided to make a
special award of ﬁfty dollars for Mr.
Kuykendall’s entry.

The contest, the ﬁrst of its kind ever
sponsored by any humane society in the
country, was open to all educators for
contributions of humane plays, theses and
original ideas with relation to the further-
ance of humane education. More than
a hundred entries were received from
all parts of the nation, two from Canada
and one from England. All entrants in
the competition were awarded a year’s
subscription to Our Dumb Animals.

Acting as judges were: Dr. Walter F.
Downey, Headmaster of English High
School and former State Commissioner
of Education; Mr. Elliott P. Frazier,
Master of the Department of Science, at
the same school; Dr. Francis H. Rowley,
President of the Society, and Mr. Eric H.
Hansen, Executive Vice-President.

 

 

OVER THE AIR

A weekly radio program devoted to ani-
mals may be heard each Tuesday afternoon
at |:I5 over Springfield radio station WSPR
—!270 on your radio dial. This program
is presented by Charlena B. Kibbe and
sponsored by the Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Programs will be as follows:

August l—"Animals in the News."

August 8—"Emergency Care and Treat-
ment of Animals."

August l5—"True ‘Dog Stories."
August 22—"Animals in General."

August 29—"Understanding Our Ani-
mals."

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




x I .|t.

.m 9 (Jr-niggi“ Inﬁlnlu I).l..54.5‘j. xiur . ) a’ﬁotﬁ-l ‘ 9 . xyunuﬁﬁﬂg . . . 40"! 1.16“!” 11.5“ . lo! a. . inlaiwxwtwllnl 170?.I‘0
u! A k \. Algk h k A ‘ .‘l y
. i . , I . ‘ ‘ .3 ‘ i j \

 

 

 

H
a.
I.
n
H
IN.
N”.
9.
I...
O
I.
H.
3..
J.—
O
_I..
G

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Ibnh...1f .\ .. k, ‘ ﬁu-WEQEEE 1 $.§.




. swwvg-gﬂ u . . “7-. 13;. .

The American Ofﬁcers of Both Societies TheMassachuseHs Society
. . DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President FOR THE
Humane Education Scole’ry ERIC H. HANSEN, Executive Vice-President Prevention of Cruelty +0 Animals
WILLIAM A. SWALLOW, Secretary
ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer
Counsel, PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY

GL‘EEE’TO Angell Memorial Animal Hospital

PEACE ON EARTH, j Operated by the Massachusetts S. P. C. A.
V 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston

AND MERCY T0

EVERY LIVING Springfield Branch
CREATURE.

.3—57 Bliss Street, Springﬁeld, Mass.

 

Our Dumb Animals

Founded by CEO. T. ANGELL in 1868—0ﬂicial {mlilicafion
of all our Societies

Trustees 0 f Permanent Funds of Both Societies

JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First Boston Corp. CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President and Chairman, Finance Com.
United Shoe Machinery Corp.

CHARLES E. SPENCER. JR.,l,’re:\-i<_lent, First National Bank of Boston

Receiving no aid from city, state or community fund, the Societies are supported by
gifts, memberships and legacies.

The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals has sixteen
prosecuting ofﬁcers throughout the. State.

RATES OF MEMBERSHIP IN EACH SOCIETY—Active Liiez, $100; Associate Life, $50;
Sustaining Annual, $20; Active Annual, $10; Associate Annual, $5; Annual, $1;
Children’s, $0.75.

All members receive OUR DUE/[B ANIBIALS Free.

. The Massachusetts 3. P. C. A. is greatly in need of funds for the extension of its general work,
especially throughout the country districts of the state where cruelty exists to a degree greater even than
in the Cities, particularly in the failure properly to feed and house domestic animals.

The reader’s attention is particularly called to the work of the Angel] Memorial Animal Hospital
and Dispensary, opened March 1, 1915. A branch of this institution was opened at 53-57 Bliss Street,
Springﬁeld, Mass., in December, 1931, and a Clinic at Attleboro, in October, 1938. Altogether we have
treated approximately 836,439 animals, 239,233 in the two Hospitals and 597,206 in the three Dispensaries.

 

.

._ .Hu, "aw. «WNW. w. ~ \

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 212

 

 

 

The Springﬁeld Plan

0F LATE, we have been reading and
hearing a great deal about intol-
erance. Religious and racial differences
have ﬂared up here and there. Un-
fortunately, this has occurred at a time
when America is trying to present de-
mocracy to all the peoples of the world
as an ideal form of government, under
which people of different racial origins
and religious beliefs may live in harmony.

Many suggestions for curing the ugly
cancer of intolerance have been offered,
but it remained for the City of Spring-
ﬁeld, Massachusetts, and particularly,
Dr. John Granrud, Superintendent of
Springﬁeld schools, to come forward with
a real, workable solution.

It is the Springﬁeld Plan. It can no
longer be called an experiment, but an
accomplished fact, and already civic,
educational and social leaders from many
parts of the nation are making pilgrim-
ages to Springﬁeld to see Dr. Granrud
and study the effect of the Plan. It has
been chosen for a complete release on
the famous .“March of Time” newsreel,
and has :been the subject of an article
in a national magazine. Coast-to-coast
radio commentators have discussed it.

In brief, the plan is a very carefully-
worked-out system of instruction and
understanding of all racial and religious
groups — intelligently administered by
outstanding teachers and leaders—which
is gradually, but most surely, eliminating
intolerance and permitting the school
children of Springﬁeld to live, work and
play in harmony.

When we reach the day when the
Springﬁeld Plan becomes the American
Plan—and that will take a long time——
then we shall truly have become a great
democratic nation.

Our Society is most fortunate to be
working closely with the Springﬁeld
schools, and the future of our Humane
Education efforts, which really parallel
the Plan in its course of kindness, justice
and fair play, is very bright, thanks to
Dr. Granrud, Miss Mary 0. Pottenger,
General Supervisor of Elementary Edu-
cation, and .many teachers from the
schools. We also take this opportunity
to express our appreciation for the
splendid work of Mrs. Paul Kellogg,
Humane Education Chairman, and Mrs.
Charlena B. Kibbe, Director of Public
Relations, of our Women’s Auxiliary in
Springﬁeld. —E. H. H.

EDITORIALS

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

November 1941;

 

 

 

Army Horses

WE recently received information

from Mrs. Marion S. Draper, Vice-
President of the New Hampshire Hu-
mane Society, concerning the disposal of
surplus Army horses. Mrs. Draper
stated that these animals frequently
pass through the hands of careless trad-
ers and cruelty results. Trained to the
saddle, the horses are unaccustomed to
harness, unused to heavy work and often
present shoeing problems. Her report
also pointed out that twelve horses re—
cently arrived in Salem, New Hampshire,
after having been on the road twelve
days. Three of them died from lack of
water.

Following up this complaint, we wrote
to the Procurement Division of the U. S.
Treasury Department and received a
prompt, courteous reply from Homer
Hilton, Director of General Products
Division. In his letter, Mr. Hilton out—
lined the general procedure followed in
the sale of horses, with the assurance
that his Department stood ready to co-
operate in every way possible to assure
humane transportation and handling
until the animals leave government con-
trol.

It remains, however, the special duty
of humane societies throughout the land
to .be on the lookout for any abuse of
these animals after the sale has been
completed. We urge each of them to
watch carefully for cases of cruelty and
to take the proper steps in rectifying the
situation. It should be borne in mind
that the Government cannot follow these
cases through after sale has been com-
pleted. It is up to us to carry on from
there.

 

 

OVER THE AIR

A weekly radio program devoted to ani-
mals may be heard each Tuesday after-
noon at |:|5 over Springﬁeld radio station
WSPR—I27O on your radio dial. This pro-
gram is presented by Charlena B. Kibbe
and sponsored by the Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Programs will be as follows:
7—"Animals in the News."

November

Care and

Treatment of Animals."

November |4——"Emergency

November 2l—"True Dog Stories."

November 28—"Animals in General."

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

IN THE EDITOR’S LIBRARY

 

 

LITTLE ACRES, by Dorothea K. Gould

Here is the story of two puppies, at-
tractively illustrated by Elizabeth Zick-
ler Aninger. A book for children, it is
important in that it will form the ﬁrst
link between learning to read and read—
ing for pleasure, as well as developing a
fondness for animals.

Through the story race the two pup—
pies, “Cinnamon” and “Mace” whose ex-
periences with a little girl are both amus-
ing and instructive. When the little
girl borrows the puppies for a week—
end, they meet all sorts of characters,
including a big collie, a black cat, tur-
keys and cows. Even with all the ex-
citement of these new acquaintances,
however, the dogs got homesick and they
were glad to return to Little Acres and
their own mother.

We recommend this book for the very
young.

25 pages. $1. The Rhinestone Press,
545 Fifth Avenue, New York 17, N. Y.

The Mouse and I
By MINA ANGERMUELLER

l lunch alone, yet not alone!

A little mouse shares with me home:

He scampers near and blinks his eyes;
He looks and sniffs and seems so wise.

I wonder where, and whence he came—
To share my lot; to live the same:

My food is coarse, the bread is dry—
But still he comes a-begging nigh.

He does not know how scarce my fare,
When he comes sneaking from his lair;
But glad I am and grudge it not

To him that shares my lonely lot.

The garret’s low, the window’s small;
There’s just a peek of steeples tall;
And just a gleam of God’s blue sky,
Comes glowing in when clouds pass by.

No voice—no noise, but rumbling street;
And gnawing sounds about my feet:

The little mouse and l alone—

Share this abode, and call it home!

4%

Our readers are urged to clip from
“Our Dumb Animals” various articles
and request local editors to republish.
Such copies of the magazine so mutilated
will be replaced by us upon application,
if so desired.

 

 




.1; .. <
S. \

 
 

M
l
H
H
no
3
O
n
N
I—
no
.A.
S
S
3
H
M
3
3..

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

From the ‘

PRESIDENT’S DESK

 

 

REAL as may be the sufferings of ani-

mals where experiments upon them
are most painful, weighed in the balance
over against the sufferings of the hun-
dreds of thousands of cattle, sheep and
swine daily enduring man’s inhumanity
in train and ship and slaughterhouse,
they seem small. In bulk of suffering,
they are widely separated.

@

I WONDER why it is that we are not

all kinder than we are. How much the
world needs it! How easily it is done!
How instantaneously. it acts! How in-
fallibly it is remembered!

——Hem"y Drummond

@

T was the late Frances E. Willard
who said of Mr. Angell and his zeal
for humane education: “I look upon your

mission as a sacred one, not secondto any '

founded in the name of Christ.”

4%

AS he a wise man or a fool who

said that an ounce of international
conﬁdence and friendship is worth more
than a ton of war material when it comes
to insurance against war?

a

HERE is food for thought in Ein-

stein’s Words, spoken in London in
1944, “Perfection of means and confu-
sion of aims seem, in my opinion, to
characterize our age.”

a

0 made are we that back upon us

with the touch of a transforming
hand comes every deed of kindness done
for another’s sake.

@

F you don’t like dogs are you sure the
fault is the dogs’ and not yours?

Do Not Lose Heart

HIS is not a sermon, though it may
sound like it.

Have the so-called civilized nations of
our time turned their backs upon all that
once was held as high, ennobling and re—
deeming, and are they heading back hope-
lessly toward the paganism of ancient
years? Has the faith, founded upon the
life and teaching of the Man of Nazareth,
been but an empty dream? Have Saints,

'Apostles, Prophets, Martyrs, lived and

died in vain?

Well, let us go back two thousand years
and more ago, in that far—off day when
on the seats of the mighty sat Wealth
and Power and Freedom — Emperors,
Kings, Tyrants, while their human fel-
lows, all the rest, were only their sub-
jects or their slaves; and later still, all
the rest only servants or serfs to Lords
and Dukes and Princes of the realm.
Within the little land of Palestine and
in the homes of those from that land
who had gone out into the wider world,
religion, as we know it, had small prom-
ise of a better day.

Then something happened. A child
was born. Slowly, but in spite of many a
backward swing of the tide, the rights
of man as man began to ﬁnd recognition,
slavery became a shame to any nation
that tolerated its infamy, and today ten
thousand times ten' thousand churches,
founded in the name of the Christ of
Calvary, proclaim by their very presence
that the faith, born of His life and teach-
ing, is the sacredest and divinest thing
the race of man has ever known.

Millions of men at war, yes; millions
suffering, dying from hunger and dis-
ease, yes; cruelty to man and beast still
in daily evidence, yes; glaring headlines
in the daily press telling of evil deeds of
evil men, yes; but millions also, unnum-
bered millions, of loyal, kindly, unsel-
ﬁsh, God-fearing men and women who
violate no law and who live and die un-
honored and unsung. One criminal, but

over against him, ten thousand worthy
of our honor and our praise.

Who would go back ﬁve hundred years,
a thousand years, if he had the chance
to live his life anew? Judge not by dec-
ades but by the centuries, we have been
told, and wisely told. Back and forth the
pendulum swings as time goes on—now
a gain, and now a loss, now light, now
darkness; but the hands upon the dial
move on.

No matter what these days of a world
at war may seem to mean, all the cen-
turies of history still afﬁrm that right is
mightier than wrong, that good is
stronger than evil, that the Cross, once
the symbol of defeat and despair, has
been and still is the symbol of the greatest
Victory this sad earth has ever known.

At the bottom it is just this: that
a human personality, yours or mine,
caught in a web of inexorable faults and
injustices, lured on to extinction through
lying dreams and expectations, is too
hideous to contemplate.

<13

Massachusetts the Leader
in Humane Legislation

0 have enacted in 1641 legislation in

defense of animals puts Massachu-
setts to the front in this respect. Under
the title “Liberties of the Brute Crea-
ture,” the Colony of Massachusetts Bay
in the above year enacted the following:

“91. No man shall exercise any Tir-
ranny or Crueltie towards any brute
Creatures which are usuallie kept for
man’s use.

“92. If any man shall have occasion to
leade or drive Cattel from place to place
that is far off so that they be weary 01"
hungry or fall sick or lambe, it shall be
lawful to rest or refresh them for a
competent time in any open place that is
not Corne, meadow or enclosed for some
peculiar use.”

 




 

 

August 1941;

Retired Workers’ Fund

E are receiving gifts to the Ameri-

can Humane Education Society as a
trust fund, the interest to be used for the
beneﬁt of ﬁeld missionaries and others
who have spent their lives in promoting
humane education. Already several cases
have come to our attention and are being
relieved in this way. We will welcome
your contribution to this fund.

Please make checks payable to Albert
A. Pollard, Treasurer, American Humane
Education Society, 180 Longwood Ave-
nue, Boston, and specify that the amount
contributed is for the Humane Educa-
tion Trust Fund.

a

Liberal Annuity Rates
ADVANTAGES

No coupons to clip, no papers to sign and
mail. You simply receive your checks at
stated intervals—that’s all there is to it.

Annuity agreements are frequently used
to provide for one’s or another’s future
years.

It is no experiment. There is no anxiety.
No fluctuations in rate of income. No
waste of your estate by a will contest.

a: are a: are

A pamphlet giving necessary information
gladly sent upon request.

The Massachusetts 5. P. C. A., or the
American Humane Education Society, 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston 15.

The management of our invested funds is
a guarantee of the security of these Life

Annuities.

RATES OF MEMBERSHIP IN

THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
OR THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.

Active Life $100 00 Active Annual $10 00

Associate Life 50 00 Associate Annual 5 00

Sustaining Life 20 00 Annual 1 00
" Children’s $0 75

Cheeks and other payments may be sent to ALBERT
A. POLLARD, Treasurer, 180 Longwood Avenue,
Boston? 15. '

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

HOSPITAL REPORT FOR JUNE

At 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston 15

Cases entered in Hospital ...... 786
Cases entered in Dispensary . . . 1,745
Operations .................. 27 4

At Springﬁeld Branch, 53 Bliss Street

Cases entered in Hospital ..... 233
Cases entered in Dispensary . . . 690
Operations .................. 115
Totals

Hospital cases since opening
Mar. 1, 1915 ............. 234,365
Dispensary cases ............ 585,218
Total ............ 819,583

JUNE REPORT OF THE OFFICERS
OF THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.,
WITH HEADQUARTERS AT BOSTON,
METI-IUEN, SPRINGFIELD, PITTSFIELD,

ATTLEBO-RO, WENHAM, HYANNIS,
WORCESTER, FITCHBURG, NORTH—
AMPTON, HAVERHILL, HOLYOKE,

ATHOL, AND BROCKTON, COVERING
THE ENTIRE STATE.

Miles traveled by humane ofﬁcers 15,358
Cases investigated ............. 218
Animals examined ............ 3,430
Animals placed in homes ....... 216
Lost animals restored to owners. . 74-
Number of prosecutions ........ 4
Number of convictions ........ 3
Horses taken from work ....... 8
Horses humanely put to sleep . . . 34
Small animals humanely put to
sleep ...................... 2,994
Horse auctions attended ....... 19
Stockyards and Abattoirs
Animals inspected ............ 60,433
Cattle, swine and sheep humanely
put to sleep ................ 22

 

 

tion with any other similar Society.

FORM OF

property. describe the property).

given gladly.

 

TO OUR FRIENDS

In making your will. kindly bear in mind that the corporate title of our Society is "The Massachu-
setts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals": that it is the second incorporated (March.
I868) Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals in the country. and that it has no connec—

Any bequest especially intended for the benefit of the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital. should.
nevertheless. be made to the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals "tor
the use of the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital." as the Hospital is not incorporated but is the
property of that Society and is conducted by it. i

I give to The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (or to the
American Humane Education Society). the sum of ................ dollars (or. it other

"The Society's address is I80 Longwood Avenue. Boston l5. Mass. Information and advice will be

BEQUEST

 

 

 

 

 

Page 153

Work in Washington

RECENT report from our ﬁeld

worker, Mrs. Florida L. Byrne,
Tacoma, Washington, shows progress in
humane education work throughout the
State.

Attending a meeting of the State Hu-
mane Society, in Seattle, Mrs. Byrne
addressed the gathering. Her report on
humane education work in Tacoma was
enthusiastically received and many re-
quests for literature were ﬁlled.

Throughout the month, she visited
schools, speaking before parent-teacher
groups and classrooms. Her quiz game
has become increasingly popular and
pupils frequently request it.

In addition to a weekly broadcast, two
monthly programs are also on the air,
making a total of six which Mrs. Byrne
and her aides must prepare each month.

6

American Fondouk, Fez
Report for March and April, 1944

Daily average large animals: 21

Daily average dogs: 9.9

Animals put to sleep: 9
Entries: 10 horses, 11 mules, 122 donkeys
Exits: 11 horses, 11 mules, 98 donkeys

Outpatients: 392 horses, 122 mules, 667 donkeys,
and 3 dogs
Fondouks visited ........................... 1,281
Animals inspected .......................... 14,786
Animals treated. 1,391
Animals sent in 263
Pack-saddles destroyed 18
Arab bits destroyed ........................ 2
Animals sent by Police Department . .. .. .. . . . 32

Amount of our expenses for the two
months: $607.76.
GUY DELON
Superintendent

43
The Hummingbird

Today your cup a larkspur sweet,
Through which the sun doth shine;
Tomorrow you will surely drink
From the flowering trumpet vine.

You give yourself unto the rain,
The flowers, hills and dew,

And such delicious perfumes,
May nectar nourish you.

You give yourself unto the wind,
The golden columbine;

Beauty iridescent gleams

When sun on you doth shine.

You give yourself unto the moon,
Silvering your tiny nest;
Can it be those wondrous wings
Are folded now in rest?

In wonder I before you stand,

Your grace and beauty see;

Who could have made the lovely flowers
The hummingbird and bee?

:12

Please remember the American .Hu-
mane Education Society in your w111.

—V. G. C.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

      

7‘
GNCI Raf/9 HE GLOQ

Editor —— WILLIAM A. SWALLOW
Assistant Editor —— WILLIAM M, MORRILL

1’?

 

 

 

 

 

I— IMPORTANT!
OUR MAIL ADDRESS

No mail whatsoever should be sent
to us at 48 Central Street. Nor-
wood. Massachusetts. This address is
simply one which we must maintain
in compliance with Post Office reg-
ulations.

Mail so addressed is sometimes
delayed a matter of weeks before we
receive it.

 

CORRECT ADDRESS

We ask your cooperation in this
matter. It will help us to serve you
more promptly if you will use our
correct address.

At the bottom of this column you
will find the address to which all com-
munications should be sent.

Please use it now and in all future

 

 

correspondence.

 

 

 

 

 

 

SUBSCRIPTION RATES

One dollar per year. Postage Tree to any part
of the world.

All dollar subscriptions sent direct To the otlice
entitle the sender to membership in either of our
two Societies.

MANUSCRIPTS relating to animals. particu-
larly prose articles of about 300 words. are
solicited. We do not wish to consider prose
manuscripts longer than 500 words nor verse in
excess OI twenty-tour lines. The Shorter the bet-
ter. All manuscripts should be Typewri’rten and
an addressed envelope with full return postage
enclosed with each ol‘lering.

Published monthly by The Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals. Pub-
lication office. 48 Central Street. Norwood. Massa—
chusetts. Entered as second—Class matter. June
29, I9I7. at the POST Oiiice at Norwood. Mass..
under the ACT of March 3. I879. Acceptance for
mailing at special rate of postage provided for
in section IIO3. ACT of October 3. I9I7.
authorized, July I3. I9I9.

Address all communications to OUR DUMB
ANIMALS, I80 Longwood Ave. Boston I5, Mass.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Founded by Geo. T. Angell. I868 u. 5. Trade Mark Registered
VOLUME 77—No. IO OCTOBER. I944

PUBLISHED BY

THE MASSACHUSETTS SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS
AND
THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY

it

Officers

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY. President
ERIC H. HANSEN. Executive Vice-President
ALBERT A. POLLARD. Treasurer
WILLIAM A. SWALLOW. Secretary
PEABODY. BROWN. ROWLEY & STOREY. Counsel

1“!

Trustees of Permanent Funds

JOHN R. MACOMBER. Chairman of the Boa-rd. First Boston Corporation

CHARLES C. BANCROF'T. Vice-President and Chairman Finance Committee.
United Shoe Machinery Corporation

CHARLES E. SPENCER. JR.. President. First National Bank of Boston
if

Massachusetts S, P, C, A, American Humane Education Society

JOSEPH MOONEY, Treasurer’s Assistant “9"! WWW“ 0* the 5'0““)!
Mrs. Alice L. Park, Palo Alto, California

Mrs. Florida L. Byrne, Tacoma, Washington
Mrs. Katherine \X/eathersbee, Atlanta, Georgia

Prosecuting Officers in Boston
Telephone (Complaints, Ambulances) Longwood 6100

L. \X/ILLARD \X/ALKER, Chief Officer ReV- Dr- F- Rivers Bamwe“, Fort Worth. Texas
N Rev. John W. Lemon, Ark, Virginia
HARRY L. ALLEN HOWARD WILLA D Miss Lucia F. Gilbert, Boston, Massachusetts
HARVEY R- FULLER *J- ROBERT SMITH Rev. R. E. Griffith De Land Florida
County Prosecuting Officers D \X/ F H Field Representative
HERMAN N. DEAN, Boston Middlesex and Norfolk r' m' ' ' wentzel' P'itSburgh’ Pennsy'van'a
FRED T. VICKERS, \X/enham Eastern Essex E J HF°EeigTD C°"95P°"‘““g ReP'eseMaﬁves
. . . sco ar ...................... Colombia
WILLIAM W' HASWELL’ Methuen \X/estern Essex Luis Pareia Cornejo .................... Ecuador
JOSEPH E. HASWELL. Methuen Western Essex Leonard T. Hawksley ................... Italy
JOHN T. BROWN, Springfield ' . S. C. Batra ........................... India
Hadeeni HamPShlre and Franklin Mrs. Marie C. E. Houghton .............. Madeira
HARRY C. SMITH, \X/orcester \X/orcester Dr. A. T. Ishkanian ................... Mexico
CHARLES E. BROWN, New Bedford Mrs. Alice \X/. Manning ................. Turkey
Bristol and Plymouth
HAROLD G. ANDREWS, Hyannis 1’?
Barnstable, Dukes and Nantucket . .
T. KING HAS\X/ELL, Pittsfield Berkshire Ange“ Mme'a' Amma' Hospital
and Dispensary for Anlmals
Rest Farm for Horses and Small Animal Shelter, 180 Longwood Avenue—Telephone Longwood 6100
Methuen Veterinarians
W- W- HAW/ELL. Super'ntendem‘ E. F. SCHROEDER, D.V.M., Chief of Staff
. *G. B. SCHNELLE V.M.D. Asst. Chief
Oth II A I h It f M. S. P. C. A. ‘ ’
e' 5"“ '“ma 5 e 2" ° R. H. SCHNEIDER, V.M.D.
Boston, 180 Longwood Avenue T. 0. MUNSON VMD
Springfield, 53-57 Bliss Street C L. BLAKELY’ V.M.D.
Pittsfield, 224 Cheshire Road *M s ARLEIN ’m} M '
Attleboro, 3 Commonwealth Avenue =1=L..H. SCAMMAN. DVM

Hyannis, State Road, Rte. 28, Centerville
\X/enham, Cherry Street
Brockton, 226 Pearl Street

*W. . \X/ILCOX, D.V.M.
N. L. GREINER, D.V.M.
FRED KEEFE, V.S., B.V.SC.

Branches and Auxiliaries WILLIAM D. JONES, V.S., B.V.SC.
R. M. BARLOW V.M.D.
Northampton Branch of Mass. 5. P. C. A.——PROF. ’ ,
P. R. LIEDER, Pres.; MRS. ARTHUR S. \X/ARNER, HARRY L- ALLEN. Superm’rendem‘
Treas. . .
HI k B h t M S P C A AARON M Springfield Branch
OYO e ranc O ass. . . . .-—- . _
BAGG, Pres.; BROOKS \X/HITE, Treas. .Te'epmne 4 735'?-
. . . 53-57 Bliss Street, Springfield, Mass.
Sprlngtleld Branch Auxillary—MRS. ROBERT R. . .
MILLER, Pres.; MRS. H. \X/. STOCKBOWER, Treas. Veterinarlans

. EVANS, V.M.D.
LEIGHTON, V.M.D.

. SIEGLE, D.V.M.
KOPP, V.M.D.

*On leave of absence—military service

Winchester Branch Auxiliary—MRS. RICHARD S.
TAYLOR, Pres.; MRS. \X/ILLIAM M. BEGGS, Treas.

:JPP
5—wr‘70

Boston Work Committee of Mass. 5. P. C. A.—
MRS. GEORGE D. COLPAS, Chairman.

 

menu”. , ,, .-

 

 




 

November 1944

Retired Workers’ Fund

MfE are receiving gifts to the Ameri-
V can Humane Education Society as a
trust fund, the interest to be used for the
beneﬁt of ﬁeld missionaries and others
who have spent their lives in promoting
humane education. Already several cases
have come to our attention and are being
relieved in this way. We will welcome
your contribution to this fund.

Please make checks payable to Albert
A. Pollard, Treasurer, American Humane
Education Society, 180 Longwood Ave-
nue, Boston, and specify that the amount
contributed is for the Humane Educa-
tion Trust Fund.

a

Liberal Annuity Rates
ADVANTAGES

No coupons to clip, no papers to sign and
mail. You simply receive your checks at
stated intervals—that’s all there is to it.

Annuity agreements are frequently used
to provide for one’s or another’s future
years.

It is no experiment. There is no anxiety.
No ﬂuctuations in rate of income. No
waste of your estate by a will contest.

a: a: a: as

A pamphlet giving necessary information
gladly sent upon request.

The Massachusetts 5. P. C. A., or the
American Humane Education Society, 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston 15.

The management of our invested funds is
a guarantee of the security of these Life

Annuities.

RATES OF MEMBERSHIP IN

THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
OR THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.

Active Life $100 00 Active Annual $10 00

Associate Life 50 00 Associate Annual 5 00

Sustaining Life 20 00 Annual 1 00
Children’s $0 75

Checks and other payments may be sent to ALBERT
_A. POLLARD, Treasurer, 180 Longwood Avenue,
Boston 15.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

HOSPITAL REPORT FOR SEPTEMBER
At 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston 15

Cases entered in Hospital ..... 1,007
Cases entered in Dispensary . . . . 2,023
Operations ................. 308

At Springﬁeld Branch, 53 Bliss Street

Cases entered in Hospital ...... 280
Cases entered in Dispensary . . . 973
Operations ................. 151
Totals

Hospital cases since opening
Mar. 1, 1915 .............. 238,041
Dispensary cases ............ 594,333
Total ............ 832,374

SEPTEMBER REPORT OF THE OF-
FICERS OF THE MASSACHUSETTS
S. P. C. A., WITH HEADQUARTERS AT
BOSTON, METHUEN, SPRINGFIELD,
PITTSFIELD, ATTLEBORO, WENHAM,
HYANNIS, WORCESTER, F‘ITCHBURC,
NORTHAMPTON, HAVERHILL, HOL-
YOKE, ATHOL, BROCKTON AND NEW
BEDFORD, COVERING THE ENTIRE
STATE.

Miles traveled by humane ofﬁcers 17,057
Cases investigated ............ 220
Animals examined ............ 3,284
Animals placed in homes ....... 316
Lost animals restored to owners . . 55
Number of prosecutions ........ 7
Number of convictions ......... 6
Horses taken from work ........ 15
Horses humanely put to sleep . . . 30
Small animals humanely put to
sleep ...................... 2,791
Horse auctions attended ....... 15
Stockyards and Abattoirs
Animals inspected ............. 56,263
Cattle, swine and sheep humanely
put to sleep ................ 38

 

 

tion with any other similar Society.

FORM OF

property. describe the property).

given gladly.

 

 

TO OUR FRIENDS

In making your will kindly bear in mind that the corporate title ot our Society is "The Massachu-
setts Society tor the Prevention ot Cruelty to Animals": that it is the second incorporated (March.
I868) Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals in the country. and that it has no connec-

Any bequest especially intended tor the benefit ot the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital. should.
nevertheless. be made to the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals "tor
the use ot the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital." as the Hospital is not incorporated but is the
property ot that Society and is conducted by it.

I give to The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (or to the
American Humane Education Society). the sum ot ................ dollars (or. it other

The Society's address is I80 Longwood Avenue. Boston l5. Mass. lntormation and advice will be

REQUEST

 

 

 

 

Page 213

Veterinary Column

1. Question: My ﬁve - months - old
puppy recently developed a (bald spot on
his head, and now I notice that the hair
is falling out in adjacent spots and the
skin appears roughened and slightly red.
He seems healthy, eats well, and is lively;
but these areas persist and markedly
affect his appearance. What can be done
to restore the hair?

Answer: Your dog is probably suﬁ‘er-
ing from demodectic mange, although
definite diagnosis must be made from a
skin scraping by your veterinarian. This
disease is caused by a microscomc- para-
site which invades the hair follicles,
causing the bald spots described. Al-
though a form of mange, this ailment is
not considered to be contagious to other
dogs or to people. However, it is stubborn
to cure, and will require lengthy and
conscientious treatments by you. Your
veterinarian will provide you with medi-
cation, which must be well rubbed into
the skin. The mite burrows deeply, and
massage is essential in order that the
medicine may reach the invading para-
site. Special attention should be ac-
corded the diet and the dog should be
freed of any worms which might be
present. His general condition is im-
portant in resisting the spread of the
disease and controlling it.

2. Question: Our English setter cut
his leg severely on a barebwlire fence when
crossing a ﬁeld. The wound has since
healed, but I have been afraid that he
would get lockjaw from it, and wonder
what can be done to prevent it.

Answer: Lockjaw or tetanus is a com-
mon disease of horses, and is also fre—
quently encountered in humans. Fortu-
nately, however, dogs are not susceptible
to this infection, and it is only encoun-
tered on very rare occasions. Therefore,
I should not be concerned about its de-
velopment in your dog.

3. Question: In the region of the
navel there is a small round swelling on
my dog. This is not painful, and does
not seem to bother him. It has been
present since we bought the dog. What
is the cause and how can it be remedied?

Answer: The swelling is an umbilical
hernia, a common occurrence in dogs.
In most cases it presents little diﬁ‘iculty,
seeming to cause the dog no discomfort.
If it troubles him in any way, it can be
operated on by your veterinarian.

Please send name and. address for
reply to questions.

R. M. B., Veterinary Dept.
Angell Animal Hospital

 

 




 

 

 

 

RED CROSS WAR FUND

T IS GOOD to know that amid the horror and desola-

tion of war, there can thrive an organization of mercy

like the Red Cross, which carries good cheer to our
soldiers in action and much needed medical attention to those
wounded in battle.

In its work of providing blood plasma, alone, the Red Cross is
instrumental in saving thousands of lives which otherwise would
be lost. In 1942, this organization collected 1,250,000 blood
donations for the Army and Navy. In 1943 , that ﬁgure was more
than tripled. But the need for blood plasma and serum albumin
has grown and the quota set for 1944 stands at 5 ,000,000 donations.

More than 100,000 Red Cross nurses’ aides are today at work
in clinics and hospitals the country over. They are doing what
they can to help offset the growing shortage of nurses by perform-
ing many of the simpler tasks, thus leaving nurses free to devote
themselves to work requiring their full professional training.

To the list of volunteer services already provided to the armed
forces, the Red Cross has recently added another—classes in arts
and skills of many kinds to furnish occupation during periods of
convalescence to the wounded and ill in service hospitals. Begun
a year ago in several large hospitals as an experiment, the success
of this project has been so marked that it is now being expanded
to a very large degree.

Though a large portion of Red Cross work is carried on by
volunteers and is thus accomplished with a minimum expense,
many of the services call for heavy expenditures. Blood donor
centers .must be furnished with most up-to—date equipment;
servicemen’s clubs abroad must continue to offer ,
wholesome food, lodging and recreation. LETS GIVE

To do all this the Red Cross is appealing to the
public for a 1944 War Fund of $200,000,000.

Voluntary public contributions and gifts are the
sole means of ﬁnancing Red Cross activities.
Every one of us must support the War Fund RED CROSS
campaign to the best of our ability. Let’s give! WAR FUND

 

 

 

 

 




 

in.” r. _'_,. ,.._. -' » -- .‘.-_ “4..

- . . ‘. . . T‘: :;" .. ,. ’ ,
-s. _ mg“. 5“: .. aux.-- “4.92.; 5.4”... . ,. .. _ y ,

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Founded by Geo. T. AngeII. I868
VOLUME 77—No. I

U. S. Trade Mark Registered
JANUARY. I944.

PUBLISHED BY
THE MASSACHUSETTS SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS

     

s e > AND
A/CIRCJLe HE GLOe THE AMERICAN HUMANIE EDUCATION SOCIETY
Editor — WILLIAM A. SWALLOW 5’?
Assistant Editor —— WILLIAM M. MORRILL Officers

it DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY. President

ERIC H. HANSEN. Executive Vice-President
ALBERT A. POLLARD. Treasurer
WILLIAM A. SWALLOW. Secretary

SUBSCRIPTION RATES

One dollar per year. Postage tree to any part of
the world.

 

 

All dollar subscriptions sent direct to the ofﬁce
entitle the sender to membership in either of our
two Societies.

MANUSCRIPTS relating to animals. particularly
prose articles of about 300 words. are solicited.
We do not wish to consider prose manuscripts
longer than 500 words nor verse in excess of twenty-
tour lines. The shorter the better. All manuscripts
should be typewritten and an addressed envelope
with full return postage enclosed with each offering.

Published monthly by The Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals. Publica-
tion office. 46 Central Street. Norwood. Massachu-
setts. Entered as second-class matter. June 29.
I9I7. at the Post Ofﬁce at Norwood. Mass.. under
the Act of March 3, I879.._ Acceptance for mailing
at special rate of postage provided for in section
IIO3. Act of October 3. I9l7, authorized. July
l3. I9I9.

Address all communications to Editorial Office.
I80 Longwood Avenue. Boston l5. Mass.

 

THEY ALSO SERVE

whose duty it is to stay within the boundaries of

their own country. guarding it from sabotage.

working constantly in the interests of freedom.

The nation's animals are doing their bit. 'not only

from the standpoint of morale. but from actual

service in many fields. Photo by courtesy U. S.
Coast Guard.

PEABODY. BROWN. ROWLEY & STOREY. Counsel

3"?

Trustees of Permanent Funds

JOHN R. MACOMBER. Chairman of the Board. First Boston Corporation

CHARLES G. BANCROFT. Vice-President and Chairman Finance Committee.
United Shoe Machinery Corporation

CHARLES E. SPENCER. JR.. Pres

Massachusetts S. P. C. A.
JOSEPH MOONEY, Treasurer’s Assistant

Prosecuting Officers in Boston
Telephone ,(Complaints, Ambulances) Longwood 6100

L. WILLARD WALKER, Chief Officer

HARRY L. ALLEN HOWARD WILLAND
HARVEY R. FULLER J. ROBERT SMITH

County Prosecuting Officers
HERMAN N. DEAN, Boston Middlesex and Norfolk
FRED T. VICKERS, Wenham Eastern Essex
WILLIAM W. HASWELL, Methuen
JOSEPH E. HASWELL, Methuen

FRED F. HALL, Springfield
Hampden, Hampshire and Franklin

HARRY C. SMITH, Worcester Worcester
CHARLES E. BROWN, Attleboro, Bristol and Plymouth

HAROLD G. ANDREWS, Hyannis
Barnstable, Dukes and Nantucket

T. KING HASWELL, Pittsfield Berkshire

Western Essex
Western Essex

Rest Farm for Horses and Small Animal Shelter,
Methuen

W. W. HASWELL, Superintendent

Other Small Animal Shelters of M. S. P. C. A.

Boston, 180 Longwood Avenue
Springfield, 53-57 Bliss Street

Pittsfield, 224 Cheshire Road

Attleboro, 3 Commonwealth Avenue
Hyannis, State Road, Rte. 28, Centerville
Wenham, Cherry Street

Branches and Auxiliaries

Northampton Branch of Mass. 5. P. C. A.——PROF.
Pr. R. LIEDER, Pres.; MISS ELIZABETH A. FOSTER,
reas.

Holyoke Branch of Mass. 5. P. c. A.—AARON M.
BAGG, Pres.; BROOKS WHITE, Treas.

Springfield Branch Auxiliary — MRS. ROBERT R.
MILLER, Pres.; MRS. H. W. STOCKBOWER, Treas.

Winchester Branch Auxiliary —— MISS GLADYS
FOLTS, Vice—Pres.; MRS. DANIEL C. DENNETT, Treas.

Boston Work Committee of Mass. 5. P. C. A. —
MRS. GEORGE D. COLPAS, Chairman.

ident. First National Bank of Boston

ﬁr

American Humane Education Society

Field Workers of the Society
Alice L. Park, Palo Alto, California
James D. Burton, Harriman, Tennessee
Florida L. Byrne, Tacoma, Washington
Katherine Weathersbee, Atlanta, Georgia
Dr. F. Rivers Barnwell, Fort Worth, Texas
Rev. John W. Lemon, Ark, Virginia
Miss Lucia F. Gilbert, Boston, Massachusetts
Rev. R. E. Griffith, De Land, Florida

Field Representative
Dr. Wm. F. H. Wentzel, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Rev.

Foreign Corresponding Representatives

E. J. H. Escobar ........................ Colombia
Luis Pareja Corneio ...................... Ecuador
Leonard T. Hawksley ..................... Italy

S. C. Batra ............................ India
Mrs. Marie C. E. Houghton ............... Madeira
Dr. A. T. Ishkanian ..................... Mexico
Mrs. Alice W. Manning .................. Turkey

71.7

Angell Memorial Animal Hospital
and Dispensary for Animals

180 Longwood Avenue—Telephone Longw00d 6100

Veterinarians

E. F. SCHROEDER, D.V.M., Chief of Staff
*6. B. SCHNELLE, V.M.D., Asst. Chief
R. H. SCHNEIDER, V.M.D.

T. O. MUNSON, V.M.D.

C. L. BLAKELY, V.M.D.

M. S. ARLEIN, D.V.M.

L. H. SCAMMAN, D.V.M.

W. A. WILCOX, D.V.M.

N. L. GREINER, D.V.M.

H. B. SIEGLE, D.V.M.

HARRY L. ALLEN, Superintendent

Springfield Branch
Telephone 4-7355
53-57 Bliss Street, Springfield, Mass.
Veterinarians

A. R. EVANS, V.M.D. H. L. SMEAD. D.V.M.
*R. L. LEIGHTON, V.M.D.
H. J. KOPP, V.M.D.
*On leave of absence— military service

a

'3‘ 4% é‘

a

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Animals Join in Drive

ATIENTS of the Angell Memorial

Animal Hospital looked on with ap—
proval recently when our Society con-
tributed to the paper drive nearly two
tons of waste paper and cardboard, in-
cluding discarded literature, books and
pamphlets, as well as ou't-moded records
and ﬁle material.

Shown in the picture with a small part
of the contribution, are Mrs. Ruth Bent,
hospital nurse, and “Freckles,” English
Setter, who seems eager to do his part to
help the war effort.

@

Cat Protects Birds

ILLIE” is just a common everyday

house cat belonging to Mrs. Roland

Grant, of Pawtucket Avenue, in Singac,
New Jersey.

Mrs. Grant had several canaries and
from kittenhood she taught Millie that
she should never harm the birds. Millie
learned her lesson well. Not only does
she not try to catch birds but she stands
guard over them while they are eating
the food that Mrs. Grant places in her
spacious back yard for them. Stray cats
and even stray dogs don’t come near when
Millie is on duty. At ﬁrst the wild birds
were afraid of Millie but they soon
learned that they could trust her. Many
times birds have lighted within a few
inches of Millie to gather food without
her making the slightest move to bother
them.

On one occasion a big tom cat tried to
bluff Millie so that he could get one of
the feeding birds. Millie chased him off
while dozens of birds stood around in the
trees chattering excitedly and waiting to
ﬂy down and eat just as soon as their
benefactor chased off the intruder.

Mrs. Grant’s canaries many times while
flying about the house land on Millie’s
back without the least fear.
eat from the same bowl with Millie and
the cat never lifts a whisker in protest.

——A. M. Vitale

OUR DUJlIB

Boat Nests

OW would you like to live in a house-

boat? You think it would be fun
for awhile. Did you know there are
birds who like the, water, so much that
they build their nests in it? The grebe
is one of those birds. She builds her
nest of stems and other materials and
anchors it to the tall reeds in the shallow
Water. Sometimes the nest breaks loose
and drifts'dOWn the stream. It is a
strange sight to see the boatlike nest
ﬂoating on the water with the grebe
calmly sitting on her eggs as if she were
out to see thesights along the waterway.

ANIMALS

They often .

. —Lenelle. Marsh Kanthack

Anchors Aweigh!

NOTHER name is added to our roll

of honor—that of J. Robert Smith,

who recently accepted a commission in

the United States Naval Reserve as lieu-
tenant, junior grade.

The illustration above shows Lieu—
tenant Smith bidding goodabye to “Jeff,”
a convalescing patient at our Angell Me-
morial Animal Hospital just before leav-
ing to report for duty at Fort Schuyler,
New York.

Lieutenant Smith, resident of Belmont,
was graduated from Colgate University
in 1936 and has been employed by the
Massachusetts S. P. C. A. in the capacity
of prosecuting ofﬁcer for the past seven
years.

Our best wishes go with Lieutenant
Smith with the hope that he may soon
return to take up his work again as a
valued member of the staff.

 

 

August 194-4

Canine Psychology

EINZ,” a white mongrel with black

and brown spots, sauntered into the
University of Chicago, and was made
house mascot by a group of army airforce
meteorologists. Due to the considerable
doubt about his ancestry, the cadets ﬁrst
named him Heinz, for ﬁfty-seven vari-
eties, but later changed his name to
“Isobar,” a meteorological term.

As the weeks wore on Isobar, formerly
known as Heinz, became dearly beloved
at U. of C. Alas, one day he met with
an auto accident, injuring one leg so
severely that amputation was necessary.
Hopping about on only three legs now,
Isobar found his kindly friends at the col-
lege petting him even more than before.

Such was the situation when not long
ago another stray dog, a ﬂuffy looking
puppy with curly hair, wandered into
the university. He too was adopted and
given the name “Isallabar,” a meteor-
ological term for the line of constant
pressure change. But, it seems, for every
affectionate pat on the head Isalla-bar re-
ceived from the cadets, Isobar received
three or four. That this unequal shower—
ing of affection was heartfelt by the
neglected dog can be plainly seen in the
“steps,” she took to gain her full share.

One morning Isalla‘bar developed a
limp, which puzzled the veterinary for
he could ﬁnd no injury on the dog’s leg!

’ —Rcmdolph MacFarlan

@

Ovation
I’m no potentate or president,
I haven’t got much dough;
Just another main street resident
They designate as . . . Joe.
But coming home the bands all play,
Loud cheers my ears assail—
All this and more is plain as day
In my puppy’s wagging tail. .
—RoIand Edgar

.-.g. ...Q‘ .

 

Boston Daily Record

English Setter with iniurecl paw is treated
at the Hospital by Dr. George J. Freier-
muth. aided by Nurse Jennie Kozlowski.

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

From the

PRESIDENT’S DESK

 

 

IVE me the money that has been

spent in war and I will clothe every
man, woman and child in an attire of
which kings and queens would be proud.
I will build a schoolhouse in every valley
over the whole earth. I will crown every
hillside with a place of worship conse-
crated to the gospel of peace.

—Charles Summer

:13

HEN a dog comes up to you wag—

ging his tail, he is trying to make
you understand that he takes you for a
gentleman and a friend. Don’t abuse
his conﬁdence with a kick. He has paid
you a great compliment and has a right
to expect courtesy in return.

@

HE story of the awful wreckage of

human life on modern battleﬁelds
where the latest scientiﬁc implements of
war are set in motion to pour their
deadly missiles into rank after rank of
living men, is enough to wring a cry of
anguish from the heart of a Borgia.

@

N the early days of railroads, Thiers,
the well-known French statesman,
opposed their construction in France on
the ground that they would so frighten
the cows as to lessen materially the milk
supply.
@

HEN the ﬁrst act for prevention of
cruelty to animals was passed, Lord
Erskine prophesied that it mwould prove
not only an honor to the Parliament of
England, but an era in the civilization of
the world.
43

ICTATORS are the outgrowth of
the plaudits from the masses who
have been swayed by self-seeking and
ignorant propagandists.
~Burli’ngham Schurr

Bernard Shaw and Animals

HESTERTON, in his book on Ber-

nard Shaw, puts the distinguished
writer’s attitude toward animals in a
striking light. It reminds us of the
statement made to us by one of the most
enthusiastic champions of animal welfare
in this country, who said, “I am not
personally fond of animals. It is my sense
of justice that gives me no peace when
I think of the wrongs from which they
suffer.”

Chesterton writes: “This combination
of the widest kindness and consideration
with a consistent ungraciousness of tone
runs through all Shaw’s ethical utter-
ance, and is nowhere more evident than
in his attitude towards animals. He
would waste himself to a white-haired
shadow to save a shark in an aquarium
from inconvenience or to add any little
comforts to the life of a carrion-crow.
He would defy any law or lose any
friends to show mercy to the humblest
beast or the most hidden bird. Yet I
cannot recall in the whole of his works
or the whole of his conversation a single
word of any tenderness or intimacy with
any bird or beast. It was under the
inﬂuence of this high and almost super—
human sense of duty that he became a
vegetarian; and I seem to remember that
when he was lying sick and near to death
at the end of his Saturday Review career,
he wrote a ﬁne fantastic article, declaring
that his hearse ought to be drawn by all
the animals that he had not eaten.”

4%

IPLOMACY is essential, even in a

country stationmaster. Witness a

post card from the local station agent to
a well-known prohibitionist:

“Sir—Please send without delay for
the case of books directed to you which
is lying at this station and is badly
leaking.”

God and Cruelty

E have all faced the question, “How

can this be a world created and
governed by a good God when cruelties,
the most appalling and bitter, not only
stain the pages of human history but
appear to go unpunished?” There is no
satisfactory solution of the problem.
That cruelty and pain are here we know.
Personally we are equally sure of the
“good God.” We have ceased to hold
Him responsible for a thousand things
of which men are guilty in the upward
progress of the race.

That He is inﬁnitely kinder than we
can possibly be, we believe. That He
saw the end from the beginning, we be-
lieve; and that, in spite of all that now
bafﬂes and confounds us, His ways at
last will be justiﬁed to men, that, too, we
believe. It is ours to do our :best to lessen
the cruelty, the suffering, the injustice
that confront us as a part of the life we
must live, and, having done our best, we
refuse to doubt or despair.

ﬂ

Thornton Burgess

T was with real pride that we noted
the article in a recent issue of Life

eulogizing that universal friend of ani~
mals, our own Thornton Burgess.

There are few people in our land who
are not on familiar terms with those
animals which Mr. Burgess’ facile pen
has brought to life. To the children,
and grown-ups, too, Sammy Jay, Johnny
Chuck and their myriads of forest friends
have become symbols which bespeak kind-
ness for all other animals. Mr. Burgess
recently achieved the consecutive publi-
cation of his ten thousandth story.

A director and honorary Vice-president
of our Society, Mr. Burgess has always
shown his willingness to be of service.
For many years, his illustrated lec-
tures, sponsored by The Massachusetts
S. P. C. A., during Kindness Week, have
attracted capacity audiences.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 211;

STAFF MEMBERS VICTORIOUS IN RADIO QUIZ

OUR DUMB

 

Shown receiving prizes as a result of their victory over a team representing the Animal

Rescue League of Providence during the "Quiz of Two Cities" are (left to right): I'Les"

Smith. master of ceremonies. Mrs. Adele FreadI Herman N. Dean. William A. Swallow

and Dr. Ruth M. Barlow. Sponsored by Listerine Tooth Paste. the program is broadcast
locally over S’ra’rion WNAC.

Cat Casualties . . . . By MARY A. COLVILLE

1N thinking in terms of feline casualties
these days, many are inclined to feel
that probably careless drivers cause most
of the mishaps to pets.

There are too frequent instances of
the latter, it is true. Yet numerous ac—
cidents which cause untold misery to our
feline friends result from other sources
altogether.

In one recent instance, a much beloved
pet took to playing with a long thread
which he unsuspectingly found lying on
the living room rug. As it happened, the
thread had a needle attached to it, and
this became embedded in the cat’s mouth,
causing the poor animal considerable
agony, and a trip to the hospital late at
night, before it was ﬁnally removed.

Not long ago, another feline companion
took to investigating the contents of an
overturned sewing basket, and a sizable
button became lodged in its throat. The
button was eventually dislodged, but at
the cost of much suffering to the hapless
pet.

Another speciﬁc instance concerned a
cat who tampered with a recently emptied
salmon can on the kitchen table, in the
hope of getting a few remaining morsels.
The result was, that a jagged piece of
the can tore one of kitty’s eyes.

A smashed pane of glass in a cellar
window of one household caused injury

to one determined ratter, stalking its
prey.

A broken tea-cup lying in a waste
basket proved harmful to one inquisitive
kitten.

Innumerable household accidents can
befall our cherished pets. A little extra
caution would make most of these casual—
ties preventable. Taking care that no
needles, pins, buttons, toothpicks,
matches, tacks or other small or dan—
gerous objects are left lying about where
the family cat can get at them. Pushing
the tops of empty food cans down ﬁrmly
the moment we have opened them and
removed their contents, so that there
will be no jagged edges to come in con—
tact with, should the cat decide to satisfy
his curiosity about them. Putting dis-
carded fragments of broken glassware
or china into covered containers. Board-
ing up or replacing broken windows
speedily, or removing dangerous particles
altogether. -

Our solicitude should extend to seein
to it that no insecticides, rat poisons,
cleaning ﬂuids, etc., are left for kitty to
explore.

These feline companions of ours can-
not protect themselves against casualty,
so they look to us as trustfully for safe-
guarding from bodily harm, as they do
for sustenance and shelter.

ANIMALS

November 1944

Squirrel Is Ship’s Mascot
HE’S just a gray squirrel, rescued
' while only a baby in a Los Angeles
street by Arnold Doubleday and George
Smitt, two sailors who were on shore
leave at the time.

After obtaining permission to keep
the animal aboard ship they nursed him
along until he was full grown. He is
considered just about the luckiest mascot
any ship ever had because since the
squirrel which the boys named “Lucky”
has been aboard the gun crews have been
very fortunate while in action. Lucky
has been around the world a couple of
times and has done more traveling than
any other animal in the world. He is an
excellent sailor and is tops at keeping
the men entertained with his antics dur—
ing time off. Every man on the ship
knows and loves Lucky. He has the run
of the ship, but prefers spending most
of his time in the crew’s quarters or on
deck.

Lucky soon grew accustomed to climb-
ing around on the big guns, etc., instead
of trees and it is doubtful if he remem-
bers what a tree looks like. He doesn’t
mind changes in climate as much as some
of the members of the crew.

Lucky seems to be able to sense when
danger is near and the ship? is going into
action because hours before a battle he
retires to the whxeelhouse where crew
members who have the opportunity stop
in to give him a tidbit and rub his back
for luck. —Albert M. Vitale

4%

Many Animal Baths

ORE than one thousand baths, the

highest in its history, were given
during the past summer at the Angell
Memorial Animal Hospital. Shown re—
ceiving a deluxe beauty treatment is
“Pat,” lovely Irish Setter, who seems not
to object in the least to that “feminine
touch” given by Nurse Ann Heﬁer.

 

Ann Hefler and "Pat."

Nurse

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

"SALTY" JUMPS FOR CHOW

H's chow time on Sal’ry's shipI and the six-
mon’rh-old beagle pup leaps for a tidbit
offered by Lt. Michael KevolicI oi Coaldale.
Pa.. aboard a U. S. naval vessel. Before
their ship left pori'l sailors chipped in to
buy the pedigreed dog for $l5. A watch
dog as well as a mascot. Salty dutifully barks
at all approaching ships.

:13
Did This Dog Think?

NE DAY, last summer, a woman in
New Hampshire was mowing her
lawn, when a large dog came into the
yard. Glancing up, she saw it, and think-
ing it was one belonging to a neighbor,
she spoke to it, calling it by name.

She continued her work and the dog
came nearer. Presently, she stopped, and
when she looked at the dog she realized
it was one she had never seen before.
The dog came up to her and rubbed his
head against her knees, at the same time
gently pushing her back a few steps.

She moved aside and was about to re-
sume her work, when the dog came
again, and once more pushed her back-
wards. She turned around and saw that
he was pushing her towards the hose
which lay on the ground near the faucet.

Thinking he might be thirsty, she went
into the house and brought out a large
pan which she ﬁlled with water. The dog
drank the water eagerly, and when the
pan was empty, she ﬁlled it again. The
dog drank until his thirst was quenched,
then turned and went off, and the lady
never saw him again.

Didn’t he ask for a drink of water as
plainly as he could?

—Anm'e Bryant

()l/IQ l)17.&113 A_FVI'AI.4.LLS

May 19.4.4

May Migrants

By HARRIET SMITH HAWLEY

AY, on our hill, is the merriest
month of the year. For this is
the month of the migrant warb-

lers, the arrival of which snatches me
from all my routine tasks in order that I
may identify these rollicking songsters
en route to their more northern nesting
grounds. Tarrying sometimes for only a
few hours, they present to all bird lovers
a challenge to rise up and follow the lure
of an insistent warble and the ﬂit of gay
wings.

Their arrival according to my bird
diary, is fairly regular, unless some un-
expected cold storm delays or sends them
northward by another skyway route. If
that be the case, then I must jot down,
“few warblers this year.”

But May being what it is supposed to
be, a month when the warm sunshine
swells the elm buds into ﬂower and be-
decks our entire countryside with lilacs,
blackberry blooms and apple-blossoms,
then I awake with each dawn, expectant.
For to me, these warbling spring trou-
badours are the most bewitching, prob-
ably because they are the most illusive
birds and the most difﬁcult to make sure
of. An eye-ring, a wing—bar, a rump
patch, a tail stripe—these are some of
the minute markings one must see in
order to properly place the many mem—
bers of the warbler clan.

So, when one early May morning I
hear a faint warble, I exclaim, “They’re
here,” and dash out of bed faster than
if aroused by an alarm clock.

As the ﬁrst comers, often with tan-
talizing aplomb, take to the heights of
the elm trees, there to feed among the
bronze red blossoms, it will doubtless
take much neck stretching and ﬁeld-
glass peering before I can correctly state
whether they are all “myrtles”—usually
our ﬁrst May comers, or whether there
may be with them an occasional “pine”
or “palm.” The myrtles with their yel-
low patches on crown, sides and rump
are among the easiest of warblers to
identify. The pine on the other hand,
with his pale greenish-gray breast, is
very easy to confuse with the rather
drab little females of some of the other
warbler tribes. His two white wing-bars
are his really distinguishing marks.

Sometimes traveling with the myrtles
is a pair of “magnolias,” the male look-
ing a little like the myrtles only much
handsomer, with his deep yellow breast,
his black necklace and eye-patch and his
very white wing-patches. The magnolias
like to tease, I think, for often after
chasing a pair around every tree and
shrub in the garden, they will suddenly

settle down in a fairly open shrub and
peer out at me as much as to say,
“Well, now, look at us if you want to.”

They, too, like the apple blossoms, the
blooming of which with us about May
twelfth, brings the rush of the warblers
that are said to so love the fragrant
pink blossoms that they follow the ap—
ple flowering season from south to
north. Specializing on insect diet, they
are the orchard’s best friends.

Then it is, that with my ﬁeld glasses
in hand, I take to the orchard, there
to spy out the feeding trillers as they
rapidly ﬂit from one fragrant branch
to another. There will be the yellow, of
course, ﬂying his sunshine here, there,
and everywhere. There may be also an-
other yellow bird, much less common and
distinguished by his black cap which
identiﬁes him as the “Wilson.” A paler
yellow with blue wings is easy, for he is
the “blue—wing.” A rare little fellow,
the “prairie” causes me to exclaim with
delight as I spy his black markings on
the sides of his yellow breast. Nor is
it every year that I see the “Canadian”
with his black necklace on pale yellow
and the gorgeous “Blackburnian” with
his very orange throat and breast.

Usually in our orchard I ﬁnd a pair
of the blue “parulas,” tiniest of all the
warblers, and usually a pair of the “black-

throated blues,” though most of the

bird books state that they prefer scrubby
hillsides.

Rather on our hillside, ﬂitting from
one blossoming blackberry bush to an-
other, do I locate the cocky little “chest-
nut-sided” that warbles almost inces-
santly as he feeds and, if I’m lucky, the
much rarer “bay-breasted.”

In our pines, coming each year with
clock-like regularity arrive the striking
“green-throated” warblers, lovers of all
evergreen trees, but especially fond of
the spicy white pines.

And all the time I’m darting about
our sunny acre always there follows me
it seems, with his tantalizing “chee-wee,
chee-wee, chee—wee,” the ubiquitous “Red-
start,” dashing freebooter with color and
grace.

Our May migrants. Animated, alert,
busy, they have come, I tell myself, these
brilliant little birds, all the way from
South America, across the Gulf of Mex-
ico and up through the states to spend
a few hours insect-hunting on our hill-
top. Symbolic are they of our “Good
neighbor policy,” moving from South
America to North America, then back
again in September to wing to all na-
tions the promise of a song with a task.

 




OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Ready

0

Page 155

CI‘VB

HE recent formal opening of our new
small animal shelter, at Brockton,
was attended by nearly seventy-ﬁve peo-
ple, among them prominent citizens of
that community and former members and
supporters of the Brockton Humane
Society.

Our President and Executive Vice-
President, Dr. Francis H. Rowley and
Eric H. Hansen, respectively, addressed
the meeting. In a few brief remarks they
gave praise to the directors and all those
connected with the former society for
their untiring efforts during the past
forty years in behalf of animal welfare,
and welcomed them as members of The
Massachusetts Society for the Prevention
of Cruelty to Animals, at the same time
asking for a continuance of that same
loyalty and devotion.

The new shelter, with Mr. Herbert Lis-
comb in charge, is ready for service and
will answer calls received from Brockton
and surrounding areas. The ambulance
is in readiness and will be operated in so
far as restrictions will permit.

Bugs Will Get You . a . . . .

ATURE is the backbone of our
I Q country and the whole world. In
Nature is the all in all by which

 

 

lhe agent's house is on the premises where he will

Exercise pens adioin the kennels. Notice the first
be within call at all times.

dog occupant under the new management.

 

 

 

 

 

 

Herbert LiscombI Eric H. Hansen. Dr. Francis H.
Rowley and former presidentl Miss Elsie Gardner.

Herbert Liscomb with the well-equipped ambulance
for use in collecting sick. stray or unwanted animals.

By BURLINGHAM SCHUBR

often break the branches. These are
actual facts regarding the Passenger

soil taken in selﬁsh greed. Because of
this fact we have lost forever many

 

America can carry on. To destroy the
productions of Nature is to wreak de-
struction to our country.

If we will consider what has transpired
in years past to take away for all time
some of the things that meant so much to
the glory of Nature in these United
States, our eyes may be opened to seeing
the destruction of other wonderful pro-
ductions of the wildwood.

Picture, if you will, the millions of
which there is not one today. Yes, there
were millions of them, and they are all
gone—gone forever. Think of the ﬂocks
of birds so great in numbers they had
the appearance of a mighty storm cloud,
and in passing would hide the sun from
view for hours. When these birds would
settle during migrations, their numbers
were so great that, in attempting to perch
in trees, the weight of the birds would

Pigeon, or the wild pigeon, as it was more
commonly called. By all manner of means
the wild pigeon was destroyed and the
bird became numbered among the ex-
tinct forms, before man was fully aware
of the fact.

The story of the passing of the Heath
Hen is another sad record telling of the
slaughter of wildlife. The beautiful
Carolina Paroquet, the Ivory-billed Wood-
pecker, the California Condor, the
Eskimo Curlew, the Labrador Duck are
now extinct or almost so.

The American Bison or buffalo, the
moose, elk, caribou, deer, bear and many
of the so-termed big game, as well as
fur—bearing animals, are unknown over
much of the territory they formerly
roamed. The forests have been felled,
wasted, and left uncared for; ﬂora up—
rooted and destroyed, water polluted and
abused, minerals and products of the

things in Nature and are likely to see
other things disappear. Furthermore,
the statement is made that unless this
nation is thoroughly awakened to a full
realization of how vital the question of
conservation of wildlife and the produc-
tions in Nature is, future America will
suffer severely.

It’s a bug here and a bug there, and
whatever it may be in the Victory garden,
ﬂower bed, orchard, farm, street trees,
parks, fields, woods, any place and every-
where, the bugs are doing a job. Those
who experience ﬁghting insect pests know
only too well the bugs will get you if YOU
don’t watch out.

Birds eat bugs, toads eat bugs, so also
do frogs, lizards, salamanders, some
snakes, some mammals. We need the
things that eat bugs, and if we do not
have a big army of bug eaters, the bugs
will in time cause famine and disaster.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 181;

OUR DUMB

Robin Redbreast . . . By JOHN H. SPICER

UR American robin is not a robin
0 at all but was given that name
because its color reminded the
ﬁrst colonists of the familiar and beloved
robin redbreast of their own native land.
Before America was ever discovered, the
name robin was used in the Old World
for a group of birds belonging to the
warbler family. One of these, the robin
redbreast, is a year-round resident of
Europe, Asia Minor and North Africa
where it is one of the most common and
familiar birds.

Robin redbreast is only about half the
size of our American robin, being about
ﬁve to six inches long. Its general color
is an olive green while its forehead,
cheeks and part of its breast have the
light yellowish red that gives the little
fellow its name of redbreast. It has a
short, slender beak with a number of
bristles around the base of it that look
like a mustache.

The redbreast has the same cheerful
friendly ways as our American robin
and also the same fondness for worms.
It is more particular, however, and beats

Helping with a Nest

UILDING a nest is one task where

birds usually refuse to accept help
from anyone and insist on doing all the
work themselves from start to ﬁnish.
Some will accept a birdhouse if it pleases
them and they will carry away building
material that is left where they can get
it but they won’t let you do any of the
building. The exceptions are few and
far between as when a pair of robins
took over a nest that children had built
in their play, ﬁnished it themselves and
used it.

An elm tree growing at the foot of a
small slope was blown over during a
storm, breaking about eight feet above
the ground and coming down with its
branches on top of the slope. As the
trunk had been broken only part way
through, it was still attached to the top
of the stump forming a level bridge from
there to the higher ground.

Three country boys who lived nearby
were soon playing on this natural bridge
and one of them remarked that the top
of the high stump would be a good place
for a robin’s nest. The others agreed
and one suggested that they build one.
This they did. Gathering some dead
grass and mud, they fashioned it into a
fair imitation of a robin’s nest.

It was about a week later before their
play took them that way again. Then
when one of them ran on the bridge, a
robin darted up from the top of the stump
and began scolding the intruder. A pair

its worms to death and then cleans them
off before eating them. Of course other
insects, seeds and fruits are welcome and
if it is hard pressed in the winter, the
bird will come around human dwellings.
It has a sweetly plaintive but not very
loud song. The robin redbreast is one
of the busiest birds, being about the last
one to go to bed at night and one of the
ﬁrst to stir out in the morning. Very
likely whoever started that old proverb
about the early bird getting the worm was
thinking about this particular bird.
Robin redbreast builds a nest of moss,
leaves and grasses with a soft lining of
hair and feathers. Its eggs are white
with pale reddish-brown spots but there
is one of the Old World family that lays
pale blue eggs like our American bird.
The redbreast, usually quiet and peace-
ful, becomes a warrior at nesting time.
Smaller birds who trespass too near are
driven away and it will even attack larger
birds and cats. So does our. North Amer-
ican robin for that matter and many a
prowling cat has been forced to retreat
rather than endure the noisy clamor of
the angry birds darting past its ears.

1%

of robins had moved in, ﬁnished up the
structure that the boys had started, and
already had one blue egg in the nest.
They were left in possession and in a few
days there were four eggs instead of one.

Unfortunately the story did not have a
happy ending. Everything was ﬁne until
the baby birds were about half-grown.
Then they vanished. Either a crow or
squirrel had found the nest or some cat
or other four-footed prowler had walked
out the tree trunk one night and made a.

meal of them. —ques Henry

ANIMALS

October 1941;

Great Stone Dog

QNE of the oldest relics of the antique
cult of dog worship—a huge stone
dog weighing several tons—was dis-
covered in 1942.

Soldiers drilling for a military road on
the Mediterranean Coast of Africa un—
covered the idol, which has been identiﬁed
as the same dog god before which the
heathen inmates of King Solomon’s palace
bowed so many ages ago.

The wise ruler’s huge harem included
among its numbers many Egyptian
women who had been brought up in the
faith of the dog god. Although the king
was himself a J udaist, he generously
allowed his foreign wives to continue the
devotions of their own religion.

According to tradition, the famous idol
was completed in the period 1500 B. (3.,
and is the work of Phoenician carvers.

—Ida M. Pardue

:13
Seagulls Save Ships

OW ﬁve seagulls were the means of
saving a steamer from destruction
was related by the pilot of the vessel on
arrival at an English port. He noticed
ﬁve gulls perched on a dark object which
was bobbing up just ahead of the steamer.
Closer examination revealed that a gull
was sitting on each of the ﬁve prongs of
a ﬂoating mine, and there was just time
to alter the ship’s course and prevent a
disaster.

A prominent state ornithologist, at a
legislative hearing on a bill providing
for the extension of the closed season on
water fowl, called seagulls the best sub—
marine detectors in the world. Airplanes
see the gulls and signal for the destroyers
to come and take care of the submarines.

—L. E. Eubcmks

 

 

Odd Facts
in
Rime

By CARROLL VAN COURT
Sketch by Bill Sagermann

There is no flyer like the owl,
This very clever bird;

His wings are of a special kind,
That's why they’re never heard.

 

\

\\\\\\\

(a
'
67/
i

 

The Owl—A N01s less Flyer

Instead of feathers stiff and coarse
That ”swish" go through the air;

His wings are padded carefully,
With soft and downy hair.

 

 

 




 

November 194.4

Springﬁeld Program

UR Society’s energetic Auxiliary in-

Springﬁeld has planned an ex-
tensive program for the season. Already
under way, an open meeting was held
October 19, with the Angel] Memorial
Animal Hospital’s chief of staff, Dr.
Erwin F. Schroeder, as guest speaker.
Also, on October 25, Mrs. Dwight W.
Ellis opened her home for a dessert
bridge for the beneﬁt of the Auxiliary.

Preparation of surgical dressings for
use in the hospital will be featured at
the November meeting, followed by a
coffee hour. At the annual guest meet-
ing on December 14, Executive Vice-
President Eric H. Hansen will speak and
show the Society’s recently completed
. ﬁlm, “Out of the Heart.” The showing
will be followed by a social hour and
inspection of the hospital.

The next meeting to be held January
11 will be for the purpose of preparation
of hospital materials. At this time Mrs.
Harry E. Barlow, Fourteenth District
Director of the Massachusetts State Fed-
eration of Women’s Clubs, and Mrs.
Oharlen-a B. Kibbe will speak.

Topic for the February meeting will
be Humane Education and the following
month’s get—together will hear Wayne
Henry Latham, program director of radio
station WSPR.

Dr. A. R. Evan-s of the Springﬁeld
branch hospital will take as his subject
“Hospital Activities” at the April meet—
ing and the season will end in May with
the annual meeting, featuring our Presi—
dent, Dr. Francis H. Rowley and Execu-
tive Vice-President Eric H. Hansen.

:13
Tiger Feeding Time

OLD That Tiger” might appropri-

ately be the title of the following
illustration, which shows Miss Kathleen
Driscoll, nurse at our Angell Memorial
Animal Hospital, holding “Mugsy,” four-
week-old tiger cub, at feeding time.

 

Nurse Kathleen Driscoll feeding "Mugsy."

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

FAMOUS BOY ACTOR HONORED BY SOCIETY

Page 215

Visiting our Society recently. Roddy McDowallI popular film star. was awarded a Cer-
tificate of Merit by Dr. Francis H. Rowley "tor his outstanding reputation in those
motion pictures which have created a deeper and finer appreciation of animal lite."
Following the ceremony. Roddy made a tour of the Society's Angell Memorial Animal
Hospital. pausing on the way through to greet "Beauty." a pinto pony.

4%

Apes of Gibraltar

HE Rock of Gibraltar, for several
reasons, would seem to be a very
poor home for Wild life. The water supply
is not as reliable as in many other places,
since the Rock has no fresh-water
springs; and food is neither plentiful nor
varied.

But such creatures as can subsist on
the kind of vegetation there have (or
had before the outbreak of war) a pe-
culiarly safe refuge; for shooting is pro-
hibited by law. Rabbits are very com-
mon, also woodchucks. Partridges are
fairly plentiful and there are some pi-
geons. Higher up, in the more remote
sections of the Rock, live the fawn-
colored Barbary apes.

Their number varies strangely—and
extremely. There used to be hundreds
of them up until ﬁfty years ago, when
an epidemic of smallpox wiped out all
but ﬁfty or sixty. Three years ago the
number was down to six, and in danger
of growing less. But now the apes num-
ber sixteen, and are on the increase.

An English journal says that it is a
strongly held superstition that when
Gibraltar is in danger the apes begin to
migrate. If the danger cannot be averted
they will all leave, and when it has passed
they return.

No one knows where they go; perhaps

0 o o By L. E. EUBANKS

they just die. Certainly there is no means
by which the Gibraltar apes could cross
the Straits to their native North Africa;
and it is still a mystery how the ancestors
of these few, the only free and wild
monkeys in Europe, reached Gibraltar in
the ﬁrst place, unless we accept the
simple explanation that they came while
Gibraltar and the Iberian peninsula were
still joined to Africa.

Our soldiers make great pets of these
apes, as British soldiers always have
done; and there is indeed a story, remi—
niscent of the legend of the geese and the
Capitol of Rome, that they once saved
the garrison by a timely warning of the
enemy’s approach. Doubtless this tale
has some bearing on the superstition I
have mentioned, but it is worth observing
that the apes of the Rock have increased
as the peril to Britain has receded.

There is nothing to recommend the
Barbary apes of Gibraltar, save their
rarity in Europe, their comic habit of
throwing things at strangers, the legend
which surrounds them, and the fact that
our soldiers like them.

a

Please remember the American Hu-
mane Education Society in your will.

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

Page 82

 

 

 

“Lassie Come Home”

IN CE the release of the picture, “Las-

sie Come Home,” we have received
many letters from friends of the Society,
who have seen the picture and questioned
parts of it where there seemed to be
cruelty to animals.

To settle the question, we wrote to
Richard C. Craven, representative of the
humane movement in Hollywood. To him
we posed some of the questions which
have been asked and his answers, which
we quote in part, should resolve all
doubts. We have implicit trust in Mr.
Craven’s judgment.

The questions which we posed were:
1. The dog was forced to swim a wide,
swift river and seemed exhausted as she
came out.

2. The ﬁght with the black dog was most
realistic. They clinched, tore and rolled
over and over.

3. In the ﬁght with the robbers, the dog
was in the air, on the ground, at their
throats and was apparently beaten with
clubs.

Here is what Mr. Craven says:

“The part of Lassie was actually played
by three different dogs. In swimming
the river, the water was merely a ﬂooded
area with a maximum depth of three feet.
The real Lassie and one of the under-
studies did the swimming with neither
dog swimming more than one hundred
feet at a time. Every precaution was
taken. Lassie was especially trained to
give the appearance of fatigue.

“As to the dog ﬁght, both dogs were
equipped with special muzzles, allowing
their mouths to open sufﬁciently for
breathing, but not for biting. The dogs
contended for only a few seconds at a time.

“As to the ﬁght with the robbers, what
looked like a club was a studio ‘prop’ and
at no time did it touch Lassie. Lassie
did her own ﬁghting. Since she was a
puppy, she has been encouraged to
wrestle or struggle with her owner or
his brother, the latter being the robber
of the picture. The little dog, supposedly
killed by the robbers, was never touched
and when the ‘club’ came down the little
dog was really off the scene.

“Lassie and the other dogs were in the
pink of condition all through the ﬁlming
and at the close. Such dogs as Lassie
may easily have an earning capacity of
$400.00 a week and from this you may
understand how highly these dogs are
regarded by their owners. For this rea-
son, they receive the ﬁnest of care and
no abuse would be permitted.”

EDITORIALS

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

F ebruary 1944

 

 

 

Remember the Birds
N CE again we appeal to all our
readers to help the birds survive
the extreme cold weather by putting out
food for them. Most of us are too prone
to think of snow as something white and
glistening, betokening the Christmas
spirit; something white from the palette
of Mother Nature, with which she heals
the scars of this old world. Few of us
stop to realize the hardship it creates in
the lives of birds and animals.

When blizzards, deep snows and ex-
cessive cold are prevalent, birds are
often forced to seek nourishment away
from their natural feeding grounds. And
many would perish were it not for the
food supplied by interested people. Grain,
bread crumbs, corn meal should be spread
where the birds can reach it. We sug-
gest, in fact, a large, ﬂat board with a
molding around the edge to prevent the
food from being scattered or lost. Feed-
ing stations should be protected from
snowfall that might cover the food.

In establishing such stations, it is well
to remember that ground feeders like
the Tree Sparrow, Slate-colored Junco,
Fox Sparrow and others will also be at-
tracted by seed mixtures and meat
scraps. Birds which normally feed on
insect eggs and larvae, such as the Nut-
hatches, Chickadees, Downy and Hairy
Woodpeckers, should be supplied with
beef suet and peanut butter. Suet.may be
hung in meshed wire baskets and peanut
butter may be placed in holes bored in a
rough—barked stick suspended from tree
limbs or porch hooks.

We urge you to start feeding the birds
now, that they may become accustomed
to ﬁnding the food easily and escape the
extreme hardships brought about by
snow and ice which cover up their nat-
ural source of food.

@

Free Lecture

WE cordially invite the public to at-

tend a free lecture by Mr. Thorn-
ton W. Burgess, held under the auspices
of the Massachusetts S. P. C. A. The topic
will be “My Field and Woodland
Friends,” and the talk will be illustrated
with colored moving pictures.

The entertainment, a yearly event in
celebration of Be Kind to Animals Week,
will be held in the Lecture Hall, Boston
Public Library, Copley Square, at 3:30
p.m., Humane Sunday, April 23.

Ten Thousand Animal Stories
ACH NIGHT for a thousand and one
nights, Queen Scheherazade regaled
her lord and master, the Sultan of the
Indies, with an entertaining story,
thereby giving to posterity the immortal
Arabian Nights and establishing a long
distance record for story telling. That
record now seems somewhat dwarfed by
the one established by Thornton W.
Burgess, whose animal and bird stories
are familiar to everyone. On January 29,
his ten thousandth consecutive syndicated
story was published in many newspapers
throughout the United States and Can-
ada. For 32 years, one of these nature
stories has appeared daily, Sundays ex—
cepted, without a break.

First written as a children’s feature,
“Little Stories for Bedtime,” they have
become literally a family feature, for
today they are as widely read by grown-
ups as by little folks. In fact, Mr. Burgess
now ﬁnds himself in the unique position
of writing for three generations.

While it is possible that the ten thou—
sand mark has been reached by other
writers, it is doubtful if any other writer
has written that many stories on a single
subject such as Nature, and within the
rigid limitations of scientiﬁc truths. Mr.
Burgess attributes the success of his

work largely to the fact that it is educa-
tional, as well as entertaining.

What these stories have done in behalf
of wildlife throughout America, and
even in other countries, can never be
fully known. They have completely
changed the attitude of thousands, per-
haps millions, toward our furred and
feathered neighbors. Peter Rabbit,
Johnny Chuck, Sammy Jay, et al, have
become living characters in the child
world and so are loved and must be
protected.

Mr. Burgess has written many more
than the ten thousand newspaper stories,
having been a frequent contributor to
magazines and other publications. His
books have sold over ﬁve million copies.
Many of these have been published in
England and are popular there. Some
have been translated into other lan-
guages, one into Chinese.

Mr. Burgess, a director of the Massa-
chusetts S. P. C. A., recently appeared as
guest speaker on the Society-sponsored
program over WSPR, Springﬁeld.

—-Charlem B. Kibbe

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 156

“Dog Overboard!”

GUM—CHEWING, orange—drinking,

ocean-going puppy dog has the
boys of the Coast Guard on the run. He
had them running all over the ocean for
him, and now, whether he’s aboard ship
or out for an evening with the boys on
shore liberty, he demands and gets as
much attention as a movie star visiting
a South Paciﬁc outpost.

But the Coast Guardsmen don’t mind.
For what happened to that little ball of
ﬂuff shouldn’t happen to a dog—at least
not to a three—month-old cocker spaniel.

It all happened when a Coast Guard
cutter was ploughing through heavy seas
on convoy duty. No one quite knows how
it came about, but suddenly the shout
went up, “Dog Overboard,” and the ship’s
mascot, “Snooks,” was wallowing behind
in the icy waters of the North Atlantic.

Had it been one of their shipmates,
the boys couldn’t have acted more quickly.
The skipper gave the command to heave
to, and before you could say Semper
Paratus, a small boat was heading over
a sea ﬁlled with white caps and spray.

Meanwhile, the skipper reversed course ‘

and within about ﬁve minutes the cutter
came upon the swimming victim. There
was still trouble, since the ship could
not come too close to the puppy, but Sea—
man First Class James Cooper, a Texan,
solved the problem. He stripped off his
shoes and dungarees and jumped over the
side. His arm went around Snooks and
then both paddled back toward the cut—
ter. Willing hands pulled both from the
icy seas.

It was a bedraggled and apparently
wiser dog that came aboard the cutter,
but after a night of shivers under a
blanket on some one’s sack, Snooks came
prowling the deck as though the cold
bath had never happened.

—U. S. Coast Guard

@

Air Raids and Animals
ISTENING to some Surrey farmers
discussing the effects of air raids on
birds and animals, it came out that a
Labrador retriever, who normally oc—
cupies the hearthrug of an evening, would
get up and retreat beneath the sofa some
ﬁfteen seconds before the siren sounded.
On consideration, the company decided
that the dog might be gifted with more
acute hearing than humans and that he
caught the note of some far-aWay siren
not perceptible to his master.

Another said that he had twice heard
pheasants in the same copse begin call-
ing to one another before he had heard
the sound of a siren. All present agreed
that an air raid and the fall of bombs
had no effect whatever on owls, which
continue to hoot and go about their
nocturnal business quite undisturbed.

—British Information Services

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

August 1941;

In Line of Duty

UG,” a Doberman Pinscher, whose

ANIMALAND DO By CLARA F. HORSLEY

In her well-known biography of
PAUL REVERE, Esther Forbes relates
that in Revolutionary Boston, a law was
passed limiting the height of dogs to ten
inches. The object was to protect the
butchers from pilfering canines.

A Cleveland, Ohio, statute, still on
the books, provides that no animal other
than a cat or a pheasant may enter a
public eating place. So that makes us
vegetables.

Aviators who must ﬂy across jungles
are warned, “if grounded and out of
regular food, eat anything that you see
a monkey eat.”

A world famous authority on snakes
declares that there are more of these
reptiles in the metropolitan area of New
York than anywhere else in the world.

Ex-Kaiser Wilhelm of Germany once
filed a claim with the Anglo-German
Tribunal to be indemniﬁed for a prize
pig which was killed by a bomb thrown
from one of his own Zeppelins during

the last War.

A Southern California dairy farm
erected a sign on which was inscribed,
"Our cows are NOT contented —— they
are striving to do better.”

According to scientists who should
know, it is safer to kiss your dog than
your girl. The reason is that most dog
diseases are not transmutable to humans.
Come here, "Spot,” and give me a kiss.

Seven years ago a Washington resi-
dent requested an unlisted telephone
number which the telephone company
refused. He then hit upon the idea of
using his cat, "George,” in a rather
strange capacity. 80 for all these years
Capt. George Katt, His Majesty’s Guard,
has been listed in the Washington di-
rectory, though he has been in cat
heaven for three years.

A lifeboat approached the stern half
of a torpedoed tanker, split in two in
mid-Atlantic, to take off 27 survivors
at night in a gale. Suddenly an oars-
man pointed to a weird light bobbing
on the sea. It was a little white dog
equipped with its own tiny lifejacket
and a ﬂashlight. His owner was rescued
with the dog, "Mitzi,” and both have re-
covered from their ordeal by water in
an English hospital.

— Iack Pearson

registered title is Douglas Mac—
Arthur, after the famous general, was
owned by Mr. and Mrs. Ray Countryman,
Burlington, Iowa.

When Doug was one year old, he was
sent by his fond owners to Camp Rob-i—
son, Nebraska, a training center for
dogs, where he was to be trained to be—
come a member of the U. S. Marines.

In a letter to Doug’s owners, the com-
manding ofﬁcer at Camp Robison wrote,
“People do not realize the important part
that dogs are playing in this war and
their assistance in taking care of our
service boys, or they would part with
their pets now to help their country.”

Ofﬁcials of the Army notiﬁed Doug’s
owners he soon was to complete his train—
ing and was to be assigned to the U. S.
Marines. They also advised that follow—
ing the training period, no word would
be sent them for the duration.

Then, later, came sad news in a let-
ter from Lt. Q. M. Godsal, in which he
said, “It is with sincere regret that we
must inform you of the death of your
Doberman Pinscher, Doug. Hospitalized
for some time, his death followed a sec-
ondary disease occasioned by distemper.
Nothing was left undone to save him.
We called in the ﬁnest veterinarians——
and I assure you, that the Army has the
best in the world.

“We share with you the grief in the
loss of your pet. His death is of real
concern to the staff here. It means the
loss of a great pet and a great Army
dog.”

The Historical Society of Iowa has ob-
tained pictures of Doug to use in a dis—
play window in the Historical Building,
in Des Moines. Also, his rec-0rd has been
made part of a large volume along with
other heroes from the State, who have
died in service.

1%

Pigeon Saves R. A. F. Crew
ROYAL Air Force ﬂying boat was
missing in northern waters. Thick

mist with visibility down to a hundred
yards, a twenty-ﬁve miles per hour head
wind, and storm conditions prevented any
rescue aircraft from taking off.

But “White Vision” got through. She
was a pigeon carried by the ﬂying boat.
Released with a message, she battled
against the storm and mist for eight
hours and forty minutes, seeking her
loft among those northern islands, sixty
miles from her starting point.

She reached it. Her message was read
and the crew saved.

White Vision is one of three R. A. F.
pigeons which have thus saved air crews.
They are the ﬁrst to receive the Dickin
Medal for gallantry.

 




  

 

 

 

 

 

October 191,4

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Athletes in Animal World

0
THE JACK RABBIT CAN RUN

A MILE IN ONE MINUTE AND FIFTEEN SECONDS

AVE you ever thought about
“WHO’S WHO” in the animal king-
dom in the way of sports? For instance,

who is the fastest runner, greatest
jumper, endurance swimmer, ﬂeetest
ﬂier, etc.?

An imaginary track meet of animals,
insects, birds and ﬁsh—from the ponder-
ous elephant down to the lowly ﬂea—is in
progress. First event scheduled is MILE
RACE.

Records reveal that Glenn Cunningham
ran a mile in a fraction over four minutes
and four seconds, which is the fastest
uniform stride on record for human
beings. Now let us see just how this
marvelous speed of man shows up with
the speed of some of our animal runners.

Entrants in MILE RACE include: The
elephant who can do a mile in three
minutes; the deer can cover the mile in
two minutes. Even speedier than the
deer, are the “streamlined” greyhound,
race horse, Whippet, fox and Mongolian
wolf. Still faster is the jack rabbit who
runs a mile in one minute and ﬁfteen
seconds. Then the gazelle and prong-
horn antelope are in the mile-a-minute
class, while the cheetah, with 70 miles
an hour to its credit, is fastest of all land
creatures and, therefore, is declared
GRAND CHAMPION RUNNER.

Next important event is RUNNING
BROAD JUMP. A few years ago Jesse
Owen’s broad jump of 26 feet and 81/2
inches set a new broad jump record.
Those entering the broad jump contest
in the Animal Track Meet include the
frog, who jumped 15 feet and ten inches.
In proportion to his size, man would have

By J EWELL CASEY

to jump more than 50 feet to equal the
record of the frog.

The kangaroo, without even a running
start, can jump 39 feet, which is greater
by several feet than the leaps made by
either lions or tigers. Other broad jump—
ers include the grasshopper, which can
jump 30 times its length; the mouse can
jump 15 times its length, but GRAND
CHAMPION BROAD JUMPER of all
time—jumping 200 times its own length
—is the despicable ﬂea!

In WEIGHT-LIFTING contests, ac-
cording to size, the ant is easily cham-
pion, since he can carry several hundred
times his own weight. Size considered,
he can outlift the mighty elephant.

Bees can ﬂy with the greatest load of
any insect, sometimes carrying 30 times
their own weight.

In the air, as on land, again man would
be severely beaten, even with the fastest
of airplanes. The fastest ﬂying bird is
the chimney swift, which can ﬂy 200
miles an hour. But the FASTEST
KNOWN FLIER is the male deer ﬂy
which can travel at the amazing speed of
818 miles per hour.

The pretty little hummingbirds are
champion non-stop endurance ﬂiers, since
they cross the Atlantic Ocean in a single
ﬂight. But the arctic tern holds the
world’s long distance ﬂight record, ﬂying
from the Arctic to the Antarctic every
year, which is a distance of approxi-
mately 11,000 miles.

Man has a decided advantage with
machinery on the water and, of course,
can beat ﬁsh by motor-driven vessels, but,
even then, large sea mackerel can attain

   

Page 185

  

three times the speed of a submerged
submarine going at top speed of 10 miles
per hour.

Thomas Blower of England swam
across the English Channel, a distance
of 19 miles, in 13 hours and 29 minutes,
but in endurance tests as swimmers, the
polar bears hold an all-time high record.

Johnnie Weismuller, with a record of
swimming 100 yards in four minutes and
one second, beat the carp, pike and perch,
but the salmon, Whose record is seven
miles an hour, went right off and left him
as if he were standing still.

Several species of beetles are expert
wrestlers. The most daring circus per-
formers who walk on wires, turn somer-
saults in midair, etc., can never come up
with the monkeys, and even the monkeys
can’t compete with the common house ﬂy
who walks across the ceiling upside down!

a
My Neighbor’s Dog ~

I was pretty sore, I must confess;

My flower bed was an awful mess.
I knew by tracks in the soft ground
That such a culprit could be found.
This was the thought I’d fain give up,
I must destroy my neighbor’s pup.

And then I watched and one fine day

I saw him coming down the way,

And sneaking by, he found that bed.

I raised a hoe to cleave his head,

But I didn’t strike—I stood like stone,

As I saw him dig himself a bone.

And at my feet he came and sat;

His eyes were brown, his body fat.
He seemed to say, “Don’t be so cross.
That bone was good, I was at a loss

A place to hide it that none should find.

I hid it here—thought you wouldn't mind."

Did you ever have a dog’s brown eyes

Stare into yours, so tender, wise?

Could you strike a blow such a thing to kill;

Could you bear to see him stark and still?
Well, neither could I—I just stroked his head,
“You’re a bad little, good little—fellow,” I said.

By Uncle Hy. (Harry M. Moore) The Trenton (Ont.) Courier-Advocate

  
  
 
  
 
 
   
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
 

 

 

  




 

From the

PRESDENT’S DESK

 

S nineteen hundred forty-four to be the

historic year when once more, “The
tumult and the shouting dies, the cap-
tains and the kings depart?” Alas, no
man, be he prince or peasant, states-
man, seer, priest or prophet can answer
that troubling question, but hope we
shall, and pray we must, that ere this
New Year dies, the day of Peace may
have come again.

a

F we could select as a motto a single
sentence to hang above the table
around which the members of the coming
peace conference are to sit, it would be
this:
“ABOVE ALL NATIONS IS HUMANIT‘Y”

@

HEN of Ernie Pyle, the widely—

known newspaper columnist and
war correspondent, John Haynes Holmes
writes, “Central to his whole life is a
certain compassion which makes him a
friend to all whom he meets and knows,
and that it is difﬁcult to imagine him as
thinking an unkind thought or doing an
unkind deed,” may we not believe that
Mr. Pyle is right when he says, “I don’t
see how any survivor of war can ever be
cruel to anything, ever again.”

If he is right, then they may be wrong
who think that our soldiers coming back
from this cruel war will come back with
the ﬁner feelings of their natures dulled
and hardened toward the sufferings of
all sentient creatures, human and sub-
human.

a

0 all those who remembered us at

the Holiday Season with their attrac-
tive Christmas cards, we are sincerely
grateful. We wish we could thank each
of these appreciated friends with a per-
sonal letter. All they have wished us we
wish them, and even more.

Perhaps they may be glad to know
that nearly all of the something like 150
Christmas cards that came to us are
going to be attractively arranged in what
may be called scrap-book form, and dis-
tributed among the sick children in our
hospitals. .

The New Year

EN spite of all the New Year may do to
meet our hopes or fears through the
months to come, and still face to face with
the bitter sorrows and tears of this war-
stricken world, we venture to greet our
readers with the words of that very early
French poet, Francois Villon (born
1431): ‘.
Good Year! Good Week! Good Day!
Health, joy and honor with you stay.

From Better’s door to Best’s pass through,
And joy and love may God give you.
* 96 96 *- ‘36
Live long without age troubling you,
Good Year! Good Week! Good Day!

a

Unafraid

THERE are people who seem to have

despaired of the future. Everything,
they say, is on the down grade. One man
says this war of inexplicable cruelties
and inhuman outrages has wrecked his
faith. Another sees every humane move-
ment retarded a half a century. Another
insists that after the war, social and
industrial revolutions await us ready to
make every last thing ﬁrst and every
ﬁrst thing last. Still another declares the
progress of the world has been set back
a hundred years.

It’s the way you look at it. And the way
you look at it depends much upon your
knowledge of the past and your inner Vi-
sion of what are the great realities. If
this world to you is only like a ship
drifting without chart or compass upon
a shoreless sea at the mercy of every
wind that blows and tide that runs, then
such an experience as this through which
it is just now passing means only a bat—
tered hull, torn cordage, tattered sails"
almost a wreck, and generations will be
needed to make it look again even re—
spectable. But if the world never has
rolled on through all the sea of time, hit
or miss, if in spite of all that looks to
the contrary there have been chart and
compass aboard, and someone at the helm
who has known what he was about, if
this be true, and multitudes are conﬁdent

 

the facts warrant the conviction that it
is true, then our ship, no matter what the
storm or how long the night, has not
lost her course.

Let us rest assured that the moral
forces of the world have been and always
will be the all-conquering forces. It is a
better world that is to be. Many a hoary
wrong will 'be found to have been
trampled to its death on the frightful
ﬁelds of this sad war. Many an ancient
evil, entrenched in human customs and
conventions, social, political, religious,
will be blown to atoms ere all the human
explosives ﬂung out by the great con—
ﬂict are exhausted; and justice, truth,
humanity, and all the virtues that keep
them company, will command the rever-
ence of mankind as never before. It is
for this better world to be that our no—
blest and bravest are gladly laying down
their lives. It is ours to stand behind
them not only with our service and our
money, but with this unwavering faith
that they ﬁght a winning battle.

a

Preparing for Peace

MIGHT easily be more disastrous
to enter peace without preparation
than to enter war unprepared. The vast-
ness and complexity of this task no one
will deny. With the chaos that will
exist in European affairs when the war
is over, with the multitudinous interests
of the many nations, small and large. that
will have to be considered, the problems
before the peace conference of the world
will surpass in difﬁculty any mankind has
ever faced before. It will be nothing less
than the most stupendous of blunders
not to be prepared for the day of settle-
ment. Not only should statesmen with
the widest historical vision be thinking
upon this momentous theme, but each of
us as well, for it is the interest of the
common everyday man that ultimately
must be considered.

“Out of this agony of the world,” to
quote Lloyd George, “let us see to it that
no deformity is born—no militarism, no
mammonism; no, nor anarchy either.”

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 216

City Named for HorSe
By IDA M. PARDUE

ONG ago, a city was founded on the

site of a great battleﬁeld, not in
honor of the bloody war fought there,
but to mark the resting place of one of
the combatants.

This hero was neither king nor soldier.
He was Bucephalus, famed charger of a
famed master—Alexander the Great.

Alexander was only thirteen when he
came into possession of Bucephalus, a
steed whose satiny coat of midnight black
was broken only by a white mark on the
forehead. He was an arrogant, proud
horse, wild, unbroken, and possessed of
a savage disposition which not even
Alexander’s father, Philip of Macedonia,
had been able to conquer. Philip lost
patience and was about to dispose of the
unruly animal when his young son asked
to be allowed to try his luck.

Alexander was a natural born horse-
man. From early childhood he had been
passionately fond of horses, and had
shown the uncanny skill in handling them
which, at thirteen, won for him the
mastery of Bucephalus. It was this
matchless understanding of horsreﬂesh,
coupled with a ﬁne military mind, which
culminated years later in the powerful,
efficient cavalry which made Alexander
great.

The fame of the black steed was nearly
as glorious as that of his master. He was
Alexander’s favorite mount in the years
that followed, carrying him safely
through scores of dangerous campaigns.

Bucephalus carried his master for the
last time during what was one of Alex-
ander’s greatest military achievements.
Near the river Hydaspes in India, Alex—
ander met and defeated an Indian army
ten times the strength of his. Most of
the credit for the victory was given to
the ﬁve thousand horses and men of the
cavalry, which, moving as one unit, com-
pletely outmanoeuvred the enemy in
spite of superior numbers.

Alexander paid full tribute to a true
and devoted friend and servant, when
the city Bucephala was founded on the
banks of the Hydaspes, close to the burial
place of a loyal warrior —— the horse
Bucephalus.

 

 

 

\ Dictionary of Dogs
=By Alotha M. Bonner;
The St. Bernard

The Saint Bernard is tall and strong,

lts head is large, its body long.

Tradition tells us this true tale,

Which has background in mountain-trail:
On Alpine heights in early day,

A saintly pilgrim lost his way,

The dog that rescued him gained fame,
And also gained the pilgrim's name.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

ANIMALAND

An ingenious lunchwagon owner has
hit upon a plan to obviate any possible
argument as to the freshness of his eggs.
He has a hen roost in back of the coun-
ter and the customer can watch the egg
being laid.

Scientists tell us, in all seriousness,
that after the war the stray dog prob-
lem can be solved by use of the much-
talked-of "walkie-talkie,” which may
be attached to the animal’s collar. The
owner simply gets before a small micro-
phone, intones "Here Bonzo,” and B----
excuses himself and trots home.

A Maryland policeman was mystiﬁed
by the failure .of his Victory garden
seeds to come up, until he detected a
wren carrying away his seeds and trans-
planting them on the roof of his house,
where they are doing very well, thank
you.

One of the most remarkable churches
in America stands in Denver, Colorado.
It is for dogs only. In this sanctuary
the animals are fed, housed, trained,
and given medical attention if needed.
The institution was founded by Bishop
Cornelius.

It wasn’t the heat—it was the bees
—that caused the ofﬁce of Maury Mav-
erick, chairman of the Smaller War
Plants Corp., to be sparsely manned.
It seems that Mr. M., in an unguarded
moment, ‘g‘allowed like he would be
right proud” to have a few honey bees.
Secretary of Agriculture Wickard
obliged with a swarm of about 9,000.

Clement Ader, pioneer French avia-
tor, traveled to far-oﬂ Arabia to study
the ﬂight of buzzards. He believed
that he could best learn the secrets of
ﬂying by watching these glider’ experts.

In the recent movie, "Once Upon a
Time” the fantasy is about a caterpil-
lar, whom the audience never actually
sees, but is supposed to imagine dancing.
His name is “Curley.” Confused? Me,
too.

An attractive seventeen - year - old
Washington girl enlisted her dog,
"Bunkie,” as a Marine Corps Devil Dog,
wrote to him during his ﬁrst days of
Marine life and received a reply—from
his handlers. Alas, poor Bunkie. Now
Miss Seventeen writes to the handlers.

A recent survey shows that the style
in dogs can be attributed to the movies.
At present, there is a clamor for collies,
due to the success of "Lassie.”

“Jack Pearson

November 1944

Feathered Mound Builders
By JOHN H. PRICE

EW creatures do as much work for
their size as the feathered mound
builders ”found in the countries of the
Southwest Paciﬁc region. These include
Australia’s famous brush turkey and the
megapodes, of which there are a dozen
species scattered from the Philippines to
New Guinea and Australia. All these birds
build enormous mounds of decaying vege-
table matter and other rubbish scratched
up from the forest ﬂoor. Some heaps have
measured sixty to a hundred feet in cir—
cumference and eight to ten feet high.
Compared to the size of the birds, a man
would have to build up.a mound double
the bulk of the Great Pyramid to match
these accumulations.

The idea of these big mounds is to save
the birds the trouble of hatching their
eggs. These are just buried here and
there in the top of the mound and the
fermentation of the decaying vegetable
matter in these giant compost piles gives
heat enough to incubate them. The par—
ents never go near the eggs again and
the baby birds have to take care of them-
selves. Fortunately, they are well able
to do this and can even ﬂy about as they
are hatched.

The largest mound-s reported are the
work of the megapodes. These birds
look like small two—pound turkeys and
have big, powerful feet that can really
make the rubbish ﬂy when they start
scratching. That is the way they as—
semble their material, moving backward
toward the center and scratching the
rubbish with them as they go. One nat-
uralist described one of these mound-s
that was sixty feet in circumference and
eight feet high and another has been re—
ported that was 150 feet around and
twelve feet high at one point. Of course,
these were not the work of a single
bird, as several of them had apparently
pooled their efforts to get a better place
for their eggs. Judging from appear-
ances, too, the mounds had been used for
several years with fresh material being
added each year. Lizards had taken ad-
vantage of these communal incubators
by digging into the sides of the mounds
and burying their own eggs there.

The Australian brush turkeys are al-
most as good at mound building. These
are brown birds about the size of half-
grown turkeys and, like the megapodes,
are powerful scratchers. As soon as the
material in the mound begins to heat,
the bird lays its eggs, buries them in
the top of the mound and then never goes
near them again. The youngsters are
hatched wearing a coat of feathers and
are able to ﬂy if they have to.

Building one of these mounds is quite
a task, but the birds save themselves
work by just adding some fresh material
each season.

 

 




 

November1944 OUR DUMB ANIMALS Page

 

 

    

yt. ‘ ..- .LH
“c ﬂﬂ\w:3n'” '

...
{MAUI/1444111] u 0“." .U
_ _ \ .

  

Ofﬁcial State Birds

ACH one of our states, except Connecticut, has
adopted an Ofﬁcial State Bird, just as each state
has an ofﬁcial ﬂower. Many states chose the same
birds. Some were selected because of certain char-
acteristics, but regardless of the reason, each is much
more interesting as a friend than as a stranger.

So that you may become better acquainted with these
friends, we have asked the father bird to give you some
clues about himself. Without looking at the answer,
see if you can identify him. Then study the information
so you’ll be able to know any of the O‘ﬂicial State Birds
wherever you see them. It will be lots of fun. Try it.

Do You Know Me?

First Clue: I am found in many states, but especially
in the southern part of the United States, where I re-
main in the same locality the year around. My foOd
consists chieﬂy of many different kinds of harmful
insects, including the rice weevils, chinch bugs and
cottonworms. I also like wild fruits, berries and weed
seeds. Occasionally, I pay a visit to the farmer’s fruit
trees for a few bites of luscious fruit, but, surely, I am
entitled to a small amount, since I keep so many insects
from destroying the fruit. . . . Who am 1‘?

Second Clue: I help my mate construct a very sub-
stantial nest, composed of twigs, grasses and leaves,
lined with milkweed silks, moss or other ﬁne materials.
The best is none too good for our babies, which usually
number four. Our eggs are blue—green, spotted with
light brown. . . . Who am 1?

Third Clue: With the hope that I am not appearing
conceited, I must say that I am a very, very ﬁne singer,
and during moonlight nights in nesting season, I fre-
quetly sing the entire night through. Not only do I
have many song arrangements of my own composition,
but I often use the songs of other birds. I am a ventrilo-
quist of note, better known as the “Edgar Bergen of
Birddom.” . . . Who am 1?

Fourth Clue: I am colored a soft gray with wings and
tail nearly black, the underparts vivdily marked with
white, which are most conspicuous in ﬂight. My scien-
tiﬁc name is Mimus Polyglottos, which means imitator
or mimicker of many tongues. I have been the inspira—
tion of numerous songs, poems and stories. . . . Who
am I?

Fifth Clue: I have the honored distinction of having
been selected oﬂicial state bird for Arkansas, Florida,
Mississippi, Tennessee, and Texas, winning over a large
number of opponents by a large number of votes. Why,
in Texas, alone, more than 100,000 children added their
votes to those of the other voters for me in State Bird
Election. . . . Who am I?

Answer: '(IHIEI‘DNIHDOIAI -—Jewell Casey

‘r‘ .
”My,“

all,

,
at
J'-
.2;

-‘ VI l. .

_ ._ ',.j~..'-.,‘_
\\'\\\\‘\\‘\
u"-

 

 

LIKE FATHER. LIKE SON

Screen actor "Lassie" poses with "Laddie." his son.

Life Preserver Friend
By LILLIE KRO‘NK LEE

Of all domestic animals
That I can think of now,
My gratitude goes first of all

To our real friend, the cow.

To her we owe the milk we drink,
The butter for our bread;
And many other wholesome things

Which all of us are fed.

Next time you pass a country field,
Just make your nicest bow

To that good life preserver friend,
The gentle, patient cow.

217

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 180‘

C '

RINTER’S ink must surely ﬂow in
the veins of “Sox,” a black and white
mongrel dog of beagle-spaniel breed,
owned by John P. Pattengill of Water-
town, New York. Eight years ago, Sox
strayed into the press room of the Water-
town Daily Times, liked the atmosphere
and the roar of the press, and has re-
turned daily except Sundays ever since.
Every morning Sox follows his master
to a certain street intersection. That is
the parting point. Here Mr. Pattengill
bids the dog farewell for the day and
Sox makes his way along several blocks
to The Times ofﬁce. Though he is now
nine years old, he still keeps rigidly to
schedule. He arrives in front of The
Times ofﬁce at 8:15 a.m., always one of
the ﬁrst to report for “work.” Upon
arrival, he places his paw against the
plate-glass window of the press room to

Friends . .

The only sound on the deserted street,

Was burr of snow that crunched beneath my feet.
The tall black trees their winter vigil kept.

And darkened homes proclaimed the village slept.
Just then, while passing by my neighbor’s door,

I heard a friendly bark (’twas nothing more).

And with a bound across the frozen yard,

He reached my side, o’erioyed and breathing hard.
“Skipper, my Boy, it's rather late,” I said.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

Printer

attract attention of pressmen who then
let him into the building.

The hustle of men at press time fas-
cinates Sox.' He is always on hand when
it comes time to unload the heavy rolls
of newsprint into the warehouse at the
rear of the building. .

At noon, Sox moves into the stereotype
room where some of the men share their
lunch with him. On cold afternoons Sox
crawls into an ideal spot in the boiler
room. Nobody worries about him, as his
routine is known to his owner.

After the paper has gone to press, Sox
knows it is time to quit. He usually gets
back to the Pattengill residence about
5 pm.

While the dog is known as Sox, the
animal was named “White Sox” because
each of his four paws is white.

—Fredericlc H. Kimball

4%

October 191,4

Young Dog’s Sagacity

NCREDIBLE as it may seem, a young

Chow dog, only seven months old, is
being lauded today in a western city for
his sagacity in carrying water in his
mouth for his exhausted mistress.

Mrs. Jean Tonanse, seventy—six years
old, left her daughter’s home in Van—
couver, B. C., Canada, to feed the birds
at a nearby park.

After several hours, fears for the
safety of the elderly woman led to the
formation of a search party, and ﬁve days
and four nights later Mrs. Tonanse was
found by two soldiers on the beach many
miles from her home.

One of the soldiers told of hearing the
dog barking, and seeing him leaping over
logs on his way into the bush nearby
where there was a small creek. He re-
turned silently and held his mouth close
to that of the semi—conscious woman.
The soldiers found that a track had been
beaten to the creek by the dog, and hos—
pital attendants found sand and gravel
in the woman’s mouth, part of the offer—
ing “Chang” had carried to her.

The soldiers could not persuade the
dog to leave the spot, even when his
mistress was carried away, and Miss
Edra Delamont, granddaughter of Mrs.
Tonanse, had to go and carry him home.

—I la M arie Baird

@

Birdie Wants a Corner

OME birds are very fond of play and
amuse themselves with various games
and pastimes. Some are dancers. For
instance, the rooks play diving games in
the air; some penguins go boat riding on
the drifting ice ﬂoes; the brightly plum—
aged tanagers of South America indulge
in social games and dances. This varies
with the species and one kind of tanager
plays a game that is almost the same as
old-fashioned “puss in the corner.”

A number of the birds take their places
at deﬁnite spots while one stands in the
middle and sings. At a certain note in
the song all the birds instantly change
places with the singer trying to get into
one of the vacated spots in the shufﬂe.
The bird who gets left out is “it” and has
to go to the center where he sings the
same song to call the next change.

—John H. Spicer

. By JOHN L. LOUGEE

“And time old dogs like you should be in bed.”

Like most advice, mine proved without avail,

For Skipper only laughed and wagged his tail;

And now, despite the lateness of the hour,

With custom born “when Knighthood was in Flower,"
Escorted me with prideto my own home,

 

Proud of his task was he, and glad to come.
We said good-bye, and here my story ends,
But not my love. Skipper and l are friends.

 

 




 

Friend
of

an

By WILBERT N. SAVAGE

MOUNTAIN SHEEP IN BANFF
NATIONAL PARK. CANADA

OWN through uncounted centuries,
D before the dawn of history, the

sheep has been one of man’s best
animal friends. It is one of the ﬁrst
animals mentioned by name in the Bible,
but no record of when the sheep was ﬁrst
domesticated has ever been found. Flock
owners in Bible times counted their sheep
by the hundreds and thousands, depend-
ing on them for clothing and foo-d, and
even milk.

The bighorn, or Rocky Mountain sheep,
of North America, is one of the largest
varieties of wild sheep. In Asia there is
a sheep very similar to the bighorn, and
it seems probable that all the wild sheep
of Asia and America are closely related,
although there are great differences in
size and color.

The mouﬂon, the only representative of
the sheep family native to Europe, is

 

Harmless dragonfly.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

found on the islands of Corsica and
Sardinia. The aoudad, or Barbary sheep,
a large goat-like animal, is found in
northern Africa, in the Atlas Mountains.
The argali of Mongolia, whose enormous
spreading horns are a wonder to all be-
holders, and the “Marco Polo sheep,” of
the Pamir Plateau, are the largest mem-
bers of the entire sheep family. The
latter gets its~ name from the famous
Venetian traveler of the 13th century,
who ﬁrst described it.

The most unusual member of the great
sheep family is the fat-tailed sheep, found
in many parts of Asia and Africa. It is
remarkable because of the quantity of
fat which accumulates in its tail. In some
instances the tail has been known to
weigh 50 to 80 pounds! The shepherds
frequently fasten a board to the under-
side of the tail, and sometimes attach
wheels to the board to enable the sheep

@
Insect Friends . . .

HE strongest ﬂiers of all insects are

the DRAGONFLIE S, of which there

are more than 300 species native to
the United States. The most common,
perhaps, are those variously known as
Mosquito-Hawks, Devil’s Darning Nee—
dles, Snake Doctor and Snake-Feeders.
The most appropriate name is that of
Mosquito-Hawk, because of the unusually
large numbers of mosquitoes devoured by
these fast-ﬂying insects.

The dragonﬂy is falsely accused of in-
ﬂicting painful stings, being in league
with the witches in feeding and doctoring
sick snakes and, lastly, being able to sew
up the eyes, ears and mouths of bad
children!

In reality, the dragonﬂy is a most
formidable foe to mosquitoes, therefore,
a valuable friend to mankind and should
be protected, instead of molested. Its food

to carry its tail without injury. The fat

is highly esteemed as a delicacy, and it

is very often used instead of butter.
Almost every country has its favorite

breeds of sheep. In France, the Ram-
bouillet is the most popular. England
caters to her famous Cotswold, Oxford
Downs, Shropshires, Southdowns, Hamp-
shires, “improved Leicesters,” and Lin-
colns. Scotland is proud of her hardy
Cheviots, and Russia has a wide variety
of cross—bred sheep which are among the
world leaders in wool production. Amer—
ica ﬁnds the Merino breed especially
desirable because it produces the ﬁnest
wool in the world. The Merino, which
originated in Spain in the 15th century,
is the commonest and best known of all
domestic breeds, and it has been intro-
duced into most sheep-raising countries
of the world for use in the cross-breeding
and improving of native ﬂocks.

By J. CASEY

is composed of countless numbers of
mosquitoes, gnats, ﬂies and other small
injurious insects. It is perfectly harm—
less and does not bite or sting.

The mouth parts of the dragonﬂies are
strong biting jaws. They have very
large rounded eyes, composed of several
thousand elements united—this gives the
head an “over-size” appearance. The head
and long slender body are bright green,
the legs black, the wings a metallic luster,
spreading horizontally when at rest——
truly a beautiful, useful and interesting
insect.

Dragonﬂies are usually seen near
water, but once in a while one may light
on the window screens where bountiful
meals are theirs for the taking.

In watching the antics of the dragon-
ﬂy, one is reminded of the maneuvers of
a skilled aviator.

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 188

Parakeets Spot Jap Snipers
By A. M. VITALE

ECAUSE Clinton Wistner, now a
sharpshooter in Uncle Sam’s infan-
try somewhere in the Paciﬁc, remem-
bered how sharp-sighted a pair of para-
keets that his mother owned when he
was a boy were, the knowledge has put
him in top rank as a J ap sniper hunter.
At the last writing Clinton was sta-
tioned at an airﬁeld where every night
Jap snipers inﬁltrated American lines,
climbed trees and when day dawned
picked off any ventureso-me Americans
who appeared on the landing strips.
Many of these snipers were shot down by
trained Americans but it was only nat—
ural that one or two might be missed.

Clinton, solved this problem by hav-
ing a friend in South America ship him
a half dozen parakeets to experiment
with. It was a lot of trouble getting the
parakeets to Clinton, but they have
proved themselves to be worth much more
than the trouble and just about the best
sniper spotters in the world.

Their keen, sharp vision immediately
detects the slightest movement in any
tree even hundreds of yards across the
airﬁeld and the birds immediately be-
come agitated and put up a soft warn-
ing squawk while cocking the head in
the direction from whence the move-
ment is detected. That slight warning
is all the expert sharpshooter needs and
he trains his telescopic sight on the spot
as he halts and keeps watch in the direc-
tion the parakeet is looking. The Jap
sniper is doomed.

The hardy birds who made the trip
from South America in good condition
became quickly acclimated and were im-
mediately put to work with very little
training because of their natural instinct
to give a low warning squawk at dis-
turbances in trees.

Clinton and two of his buddies are the
ﬁrst men upon the ﬁeld each morning.
They carry a parakeet on each shoulder.
Woe to any J ap sniper who so much as
lifts a riﬂe anywhere near the airﬁeld.

At ﬁrst the parakeets were carried in
small wooden cages which were fastened
to the shoulders of the sniper spotters
because the birds were gun shy. The
birds have now became accustomed to
the noise of a gun being ﬁred and make
no attempt to escape.

The little feathered life savers are
treated royally not only by enlisted men
but by ofﬁcers, nurses and ﬂyers alike.
They have already, in about eight
months, saved dozens of American lives.
So well do these little creatures do their
job that no Americans stationed at this
particular base have been killed by
snipers bullets since their arrival.

Witnesses claim that the birds have
been responsible for the removal of more
than one hundred and ﬁfty J ap snipers.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

NIMA LORE

SEA LIFE—Two very large groups of
the animal kingdom are almost entirely
unrepresented in the sea. There are no
amphibians in the ocean and only one
kind of insect, a family of water strid-
ers.

WHEATEAR is said to be the only land
bird that migrates regularly between
North America and Africa. This is the
Wheatear whose summer home is in
Greenland.

MONKEYS—The only monkeys living
wild in Europe are the Barbary Apes, a
troop of which have been living on the
rock of Gibraltar for centuries.

TURTLE—The common snapping turtle
is said to grow sometimes as heavy as
seventy pounds.

DRAGONFLIES—Naturalists timing
the ﬂight of some of the dragon ﬂies,
report a speed of nearly sixty miles an
hour.

ANTS—With some species of ants found
in Africa, the queen may be a thousand
times as large as the workers, even
though both may be hatched from eggs
laid by the same mother.

BIRDS—Both the gannet and the brown
pelican have air sacs under the skin on
the breast. These seem to cushion the

shock of their dives after ﬁsh.

COLTS—No one knows why, but a colt
from a cross between the Arab and Eu-
ropean breeds of horses is usually
marked with a white star.

DINOSAURS—Although famous for
their size, not all the ancient dinosaurs
were giants. Some were no larger than
a barnyard chicken.

WILD ASS of Asia is one of the most
untamable of all the beasts.

EUROPEAN CUCKOO is a notorious
parasite on other birds, but the Ameri-
can cuckoo is a respectable bird that
builds a nest and cares for its own

4%

Any unsual or interesting facts con-
cerning animals will be gratefully re-
ceived. Please mention source. Address
——Animal0re, Our Dumb Animals, 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston 15, Mass.

. family.

October 1944

Cats of London
By JOAN LITTLEF‘IELD

N a recent London air raid a young
woman was rescued, after being em-

tomtbed in debris for forty hours,
through the mewings of a kitten which
was imprisoned with her.

On another occasion a cat won a medal
from Our Dumb Friends League for sav—
ing its owners when an incendiary bomb
set their house on ﬁre. They were in bed
at the time, but the cat awoke them by
crying and pulling at the bedclothes.

“There is no doubt,” said an official of
the national organization that looks after
animals during and after air raids,
“that the‘cat population of Great Bri-
tain seems far more indifferent to bomb-
ing than most dogs are. Perhaps it is
that cat superiority—or the fact that
she has nine lives!

“Cats have an acute perception of
danger and often show signs of uneasi—
ness before the sirens are sounded. My
own cat always warns me when a raid
is imminent. The same is true of cats
on ships.

“Cats have a genius, too, for ﬁnding
the safest place in a house when a raid
is in progress. They will squeeze be-
tween two joists, for instance; and there
is the example of the cat who had kit-
tens under a marble-topped table and

~ was found there with her new family in-

tact under a pile of rubble.

“Both dogs and cats incline to take
their owners’ reactions to a raid. If the
owner is nervous, his animal will be
nervous, too; if he is calm, his pet will
cease to be afraid. Cats, being more im—
personal than dogs, are less subject to
these reactions. They tend to regard the
sirens either as a prelude to a bad
bombing noise or to a comfortable place
under the stairs, and seem to react ac-
cordingly.”

The horse is apparently the only ani—
mal that is completely indifferent to
sirens or bombs, though the approach of
ﬁre makes himvhighly nervous.

A number of cats, whose owners have
been killed, have been rescued in recent
raids. New homes are quickly found for
them, since there is a great demand for
cats in Britain today because of the
rats which have been evicted from shat-
tered buildings.

It is seldom cats res-cue each other.
In this respect dogs are their superiors.
The prize for rescue work goes to a pure-
bred wire-haired Irish terrier called
Beauty, who won the People’s Dispensary
for Sick Animals’ silver medal for gal-
lantry after having located thirty-two
buried animals. She accompanies her
master, Superintendent W. H. Barnett,
leader of an animal rescue squad, on his
visits to bombed sites, and is as acute as
a water-diviner in locating imprisoned
cats and dogs.

 




 

 

UNION TRUST
COMPANY

0 F
Springfield, Massachusetts

Complete
BANKING AND TRUST
FACILITIES

I I
COMMERCIAL BANKING
FOREIGN EXCHANGE
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES

INDIVIDUAL
A N D

CORPORATE TRUSTS

STOCK TRANSFER
E I I
M E M B E R
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM
FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE
CORPORATION

 

 

 

ORDER NOW

Your Christmas Subscriptions
to

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

A single subscription is $1.00 a
year, but in clubs of ﬁve or more
the price is 60 cts. a year.

Address, OUR DUMB ANIMALS,
180 Longwood Ave., Boston 15, Mass.

 

 

 

 

KINDNESS BLOTTER

Its appropriate illustration and
Kindness Week message, printed
in red and black on gray blotting
has a universal appeal.

Price, ﬁfty cents a hundred.
Order now from

American Humane Education
Society

180 Longwood Ave., Boston 15, Mass.

 

Humane Literature and Band of Mercy Supplies

For Sale by the American Humane Education Society and the Massachusetts 5. P. C. A.

180 Longwood Avenue, Boston 15, Mass., at these prices, postpaid.

Titles in bold- face type are of books or booklets.

Our Dumb Animals, 1943, bound volume $1.50
Celored Posters, 17 x 28 inches, attrac-

tive pictures and verses, six in set .. 1.00
Colored Posters, 17 x 22 inches .. .5 cts. each

About the Horse

Care of the Horse ..$1.25 per 100

Humane Education Leaﬂet, No. 5 . .. .. . .50 “ “
The Horse’s Prayer . .. .. ... .30 “ “
The Bell of Atri, poem by Longfellow .. .50 “ “

The Shame of It—Mutilating the horse
by setting up his tail. Dr. Rowley.
Fourillus” 4pp. Free

About the Dog
Eulogy on the Dog, by Vest, post-card ..$0.50 per 100
CareoftheDog........ .75 “ “
Suggestions for Feeding Dogs . .. .. . 1.50 “ “
Humane Education Leaﬂets, NOS. 3 and 4 .50 “ “
“Don” and His Boy Scout Friends, J. P.

Lyons ............................... .50 “ “
The Story of Barry .30 “ “
Boots’ Day, play, for two bomys and three

girls .. . .3 cts. each; ﬁve for 10 cts.
Distemper in Dogs, Dr. Schneider ...... Free

About the Bird
The Birds of God, 318 pp., illus. . cloth, $0.45

Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 1 and 2.$0.50 per 100
How the Birds Help the Farmer . .. .. ... .50 “ “

The Air-Gun and the Birds .50 “ “
About the Cat

Care of the Cat ........................ $0.75 per 100

The Cat in Literature ...... ... .. .. . .50 “ “

Do Not Leave Your Cat to Starve ....... .50 “ “

“The Beggar Cat,” post-card, 6 cts. doz. .50 “ “

About Other Animals
Do You Know About This? .............. Free
First Aid to Animals, Dr. Schneider, 8 pp. .$1.00 per 100
How to Kill Animals Humanely, 4 pp. . . .75 “ “

Humane Education Leaﬂet, No. 6, Animals .50 “ "
Humane Education Leaﬂet, NO. 7, Farm

Animals ............................. .50 “ “
Ways of Kindness ...................... .75 “ “
Care of Rabbits ...................... .30 “ “
Cruelty at Eastertime ................ .75 “ “
Professor Frog’s Lecture, 8 pp. ......... .75 “ “
Why the Toad is so Useful .............. .30 “ “
Hints on the Care of Cows .............. .50 “ “
Directions for the Care of Swine . .. .. . . . 1.00 “ “
A Wise Fish ........................... .50 “ “

The Jack London Club
Michael Brother of Jerry, Jack London, cloth, 75 cts.

What is the Jack London Club? ........ $0.30 per 100
Foreword from “Michael Brother of

Jerry” .............................. .30 “ ”
DO Wild Animals Prefer Captivity? Helen

Trevelyan, 4 pp. ..................... .50 “ “

Films, Fakes and Facts, Helen Trevelyan,
4 pp. ................................

Please enclose remittance

Our Dumb Animals, monthly publication of our
Societies, $1 per year.

Humane Education

Humane Education, by Dr. Francis H.

Rowley .............................. Free
The Relation Of the Home to Character

Formation, Dr. Francis H. Rowley . Free
The Animal or the Child, Dr. Rowley . .. Free
Humane Education and Spiritual Values,

Dr. Rowley .......................... Free
A Great Prophecy, Dr. Rowley .......... Free
Kindness and Humane Education ........ $1.00 per 100
Kindness Picture Book, 32 pp. ........... 10 cts.

The Teacher’s Helper in Humane Educa—
tion. 32 pp. .......................... each, 10 cts.

An Early Start to Kindness, Lucia F.
Gilbert, 48 pp. For ﬁrst and second
grades . . . .,each 10 cts.

“Be Kind to Animals” pennants ........ each, 25 cts.

The Humane Idea, Dr. Francis H. Rowley
cloth, 35 cts.

Friends and Helpers (selections for school
use) Sarah J. Eddy .................. cloth, $1. 20

The B—K—T—A—Club, play, 3 cts. each; ten for 250.
“And a Little Child Shall Lead Them,”

play ...................... 3 cts. each; ten for 250.
I’ll Never Hunt Again, play, 3 cts. each; ﬁve for 10 cts.
The Best Gift, play ........ 2 cts. each; six for 10 cts.
Let Us Have Pets! play, for three boys

and three girls .......... 2 cts. each; six for 10 cts.
Humane Exercises ...................... $1.50 per 100

Humane Education the Vital Need, Dr.
Rowley, short radio address, 2 cts. each. so. 50 per 100

Humane Education, What to Teach and
How to Teach It .....................

A Talk with the Teacher ................ .50 “ “

Our Love for Animals, a short radio
address .................. 2 cts. each; 1.00 “ "

A Festival of Tender Mercies .. . . .50 “ “

How to Organize a Society for the Pro-
tection of Animals ....................

Bookmark, with “A Humane Prayer” .. 1.00 “ “

Twenty Years of Be Kind to Animals

Week, Guy Richardson .3 cts. each; ten for 25 cts.
Band of Mercy

“Be Kind to Animals” Buttons.

A. H. E. S. ........................ $1.00 per 100
Badges, gold ﬁnish, large, 10 cts., small 5 cts.
“Band of Mercy” pennant ............. 25 cts.
503131531)“. .prpy. Life. .(.5.6. . IJCFII’. word.“ 00 per 100
Band of Mercy Membership Card ........ .50 “ “
How to Form Bands of Mercy .......... .50 “ “

Does It Pay, Story of one Band of Mercy .30

Band of Mercy Register ................ 10 cts.

with orders for less than $1

AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
180 Longwood Ave., Boston 15, Mass.

 

 

THIS SPACE
CONTRIBUTED

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Since 1832
J. S. WATERMAN & SONS, lnc.

Entertakers
BOSTON—BROOKLINE—CAMBRIDGE

City and out-of-town service

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

October 191,4

Animal

That
Couldn’
Be

By MAX MEREDITH

HAT story about the old “Doubting
Thomas” who stubbornly main-
tained—despite the evidence to the
contrary, before his very eyes—“There
ain’t no sich a-nimile!” really came true
in England.
The ﬁrst reports of a most singular

I four-footed animal that hatched its young

from eggs, and had a bill like a duck,
was received with skepticism. Why, there
just couldn’t be an animal like that!
And even when a stuffed specimen was
brought to England—proving conclu-
sively that there certainly was such an
animal—some really intelligent British-
ers smiled knowingly and declared that
they weren’t being fooled by this ingeni-
ous but absurd fabrication of some joke-
playing taxidermist!

The watermole, or the duckbill, as it
is popularly called because its head and
snout greatly resemble those of a duck,
is an aquatic animal, and a burrower—
as thoroughly so as is the beaver. Seen
swimming, it looks like nothing so much
as a black bottle ﬂoating about upon the
surface of the water. It inhabits the
rivers of Australia, Tasmania, and the
neighboring islands. It is the sole mem-

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Page 189

 

ber of a zoological family, and of all
mammals, the dunckbill is most like a bird.

It has a rather ﬂat body, some eighteen
or twenty inches long, short legs, and its
feet are webbed, each with ﬁve well—
developed toes, armed with large claws.
The forefeet have a connecting membrane
for swimming, which extends beyond the
claws and it may be folded :back out of
the way so as not to interfere with the
efﬁcient use of claws in burrowing. The
head is small and round, set with very
small, very bright eyes. The animal has
no visible ears, but its internal ears are
perfectly developed and its hearing is
quite acute.

Instead of. the muzzle, mouth, and teeth
of the ordinary quadruped, this strange
creature is furnished by Nature with a
horny beak, much like that of a duck.
This beak, proportionately broader than
a duck’s, incloses the upper and lower
jaws with an extremely sensitive naked
skin, which is almost black. This skin
is raised into a frill-like fold around the
base of the bill, so that, in burrowing
and rooting for food in the mud, this fold
of skin is turned back to protect the
animal’s eyes.

43

Dogs Shared National Destinies . .

HE destinies of nations often depend
upon the bare threads of chance.
Even the vigilance and devotion of a dog
can at times indirectly shape the course
of national destinyﬁand receive scant
credit from the pens of the historians.
A bloodhound once saved the life of
Robert the Bruce in a skirmish with a
patrol of English soldiers. When Bruce
was disarmed in a hand-to-hand ﬁght,
the dog attacked its master’s nearest
assailants and held them at bay until
he could reartm himself.
The dog’s action undoubtedly inﬂu-
enced the course of Scottish history.

Bruce, who was then a fugitive from the
English, escaped capture or death be-
cause of the alertness of his canine com-
panion. Afterwards he rallied the Scots
anew, raised an army and won their
national independence on the fourteenth
century ﬁeld of Bannockburn.

This is no incident colored by legend,
like the tale of Robert Bruce and the
spider. It is backed by the full weight
of historical evidence.

The barking of an alert spaniel has
been credited with a similar share in
shaping the course of a nation. It hap-
pened during an intended surprise at-

A kind of teeth are supplied the duck-
bill in the form of horny structures. Its
tongue cannot be extended. This animal
has a_ loose skin and a dense, soft,
blackish-brown fur. At the roots of its
glossy coat there is a layer of soft, short
waterproof fur, like that of the beaver’s.
The tail is short, broad, and ﬂattened.
Belying the animal’s disposition, the
duckubill’s voice sounds something like
the growl of a young dog.

An expert swimmer and diver, the
duckbill inhabits burrows near the water.
It feeds chieﬂy on water insects, worms,
and small, shelled animals—such as slugs,
snails, mussels, and the like. The duck-
bill lays two eggs at a time. These are
about three-fourths of an inch long, and
are covered with a white shell which is
soft and ﬂexible, but strong.

That the duckbill actually lays eggs,
from which its young is hatched—ani-
mals born into the world in the manner
of a bird !—-was long a disputed fact.
The aboriginal peoples of the country,
however, had long observed and testiﬁed
to this interesting fact.

. By JASPER B. SINCLAIR

tack in one of the sixteenth century
campaigns that were fought in defense
of the Netherlands and its sovereignty.

The dog’s barking awakened the camp
of William, Prince of Orange, in the
darkness of night. As a result, the
Netherlanders successfully repelled what
might otherwise have been a disastrous
engagement with the Spanish troopS
under the infamous Duke of Alva.

The American patriot who declared
“Eternal vigilance is the price of lib-
erty!” never reckoned upon the vigilance
of a dog ever alert to its master’s needs
and safety.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

«Duly-:7) “I 1 16

Gift Subscriptions

HE illustrations above show the exact size of our new folders
sent to all who are to receive gift subscriptions from friends or
relatives.

For birthday gifts or other general occasions, the illustration on
the right is used, but for Christmas gifts, we have made up a special
card with an inside message printed in green, imbuing the whole with
a spirit of the Yuletide.

Now is the time to start thinking of Christmas gifts and there is
one sure way of pleasing everyone. That is by sending a subscription
to 0er Dumb Animals—a gift that renews itself each month.

For anyone who likes animals (and who does not?) it is the ideal
gift. Give your friends the chance to enjoy reading each month true
stories about animals, factual articles about their lives and habits, ap-
pealing verse and interesting, story-telling pictures.

Dedicated to kindness, Our Dumb Am’mals is the oldest publi-
cation of its kind in the world and has continued, since 1868, to spon-
sor a better understanding of the value of animals to mankind. Adults
and children, alike, will find interesting reading in its pages.

The price is $1.00 a year, but if five or more subscriptions are
sent, we offer a special rate of $.60 each.

Send your orders now to:

OUR DUMB ANIMALS
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston 15, Massachusetts

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

     

7.
SNCIRcLee IVE 6LCD9

Editor —- WILLIAM A. SWALLOW
Assistant Editor — WILLIAM M. MORRILL

71‘?

 

 

IMPORTANT!
OUR MAIL ADDRESS

No mail whatsoever should be sent
to us at 48 Central Street. Nor-
wood. Massachusetts. This address is
simply one which we must maintain
in compliance with Post Office reg-
ulations.

Mail so addressed is sometimes
delayed a matter of weeks before we
receive it.

 

CORRECT ADDRESS

We ask your cooperation in this
matter. It will help us to serve you
more promptly if you will use our
correct address.

At the bottom of this column you
will find the address to.which all com-
munications should be sent.

Please use it now and in all future
correspondence.

 

 

 

 

 

 

SUBSCRIPTION RATES

One dollar per year.
of the world.

Postage free to any part

All dollar subscriptions sent direct to the office
entitle the sender to membership in either of our
two Societies. I

MANUSCRIPTS relating to animals, particu-
larly prose articles of about 300 words. are
solicited. We do not wish to consider prose
manuscripts longer than 500 words nor verse in
excess of twenty-four lines. The shorter the bet-
ter. All manuscripts should be typewritten and
an addressed envelope with full return postage
enclosed with each offering.

Published monthly by The Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals. Pub-
lication ofﬁce. 48 Central Street. Norwood. Massa-
chusetts. Entered as second-class matter. June
29. I9I7. at the Post Ofﬁce at Norwood. Mass..
under the Act of March 3. l879. Acceptance for
mailing at special rate of postage provided for
in section IIO3. Act of October 3. I9I7.
authorized. July I3. I9I9.

Address all communications to OUR DUMB
ANIMALS. |80 Longwood Ave.. Boston I5. Mass.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Founded by Geo. T. Angell. I868
VOLUME 77—No. I2

U. S. Trade Mark Registered
DECEMBER. I944

PUBLISHED BY

THE MASSACHUSETTS SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS
AND
THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY

is

Officers
DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY. President
ERIC H. HANSEN. Executive Vice-President
ALBERT A. POLLARD. Treasurer
WILLIAM A. SWALLOW. Secretary
PEABODY. BROWN. ROWLEY 8: STOREY. Counsel

if:

Trustees of Permanent Funds

JOHN R. MACOMBER. Chairman of the Board. First Boston Corporation

CHARLES G. BANCROFT. Vice-President and Chairman Finance Committee.
United Shoe Machinery Corporation

CHARLES E. SPENCER. JR.. President. First National Bank of Boston

if?

Massachusetts 5. P. C. A.

JOSEPH MOONEY, Treasurer’s Assistant

Prosecuting Officers in Boston ‘
Telephone (Complaints, Ambulances) Longwood 6100

L. WILLARD WALKER, Chief Officer

HARRY L. ALLEN HOWARD WILLAND
HARVEY R. FULLER I"J. ROBERT SMITH

County Prosecuting Officers
HERMAN N. DEAN, Boston Middlesex and Norfolk
FRED T. VICKERS, Wenham Eastern Essex
WILLIAM W. HASWELL, Methuen
JOSEPH E. HASWELL, Methuen

JOHN T. BROWN, Springfield

Hampden, Hampshire and Franklin
HARRY C. SMITH, Worcester
CHARLES E. BROWN, New Bedford

Bristol and Plymouth

HAROLD G. ANDREWS, Hyannis

Barnstable, Dukes and Nantucxet
T. KING HASWELL, Pittsfield Berkshire

Western Essex
Western Essex

Worcester

Rest Farm for Horses and Small Animal Shelter.
Methuen

W. W. HASWELL, Superintendent

Other Small Animal Shelters of M. S. P. C. A.

Boston, I80 Longwood Avenue
Springfield, 53-57 Bliss Street

Pittsfield, 224 Cheshire Roac

Attleboro, 3 Commonwealth Avenue
Hyannis, State Road, Rte. 28, Centerville
Wenham, Cherry Street

Brockton, 226 Pearl Street

Branches and Auxiliaries

Northampton. Branch of Mass. S. P C

P. R. LIEDER, Pres.; MRS. ARTHUR sI
Treas.

Holyoke Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.—-—AARON M.
BAGG, Pres.; BROOKS WHITE, Treas.

Springfield Branch Auxiliary—MRS. ROBERT R.
MILLER, Pres.; MRS. H. W. STOCKBOWER, Treas.

Winchester Branch Auxiliary—MRS. RICHARD S.
TAYLOR, Pres.; MRS. WILLIAM M. BEGGS, Treas.

Boston Work Committee of Mass. S. P. C. A.—
MRS. GEORGE D. COLPAS, Chairman.

A.——-PROF.
WARN ER,

American Humane Education Society

Field Workers of the Society
Mrs. Alice L. Park, Palo Alto, California
Mrs. Florida L. Byrne, Tacoma, Washington
Mrs. Katherine Weathersbee, Atlanta, Georgia
Rev. Dr. F. Rivers Barnwell, Fort Worth, Texas
Rev. John W. Lemon, Ark, Virginia
Miss Lucia F. Gilbert. Boston, Massachusetts
Rev. R. E. Griffith, De Land, Florida

Field Representative
Dr. Wm. F. H. Wentzel, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

Foreign Corresponding Representatives

Luis Pareia Corneio .................... Ecuador
Leonard T. Hawksley ................... Italy
S. C. Batra. . . . ....................... India
Mrs. Marie C. E. Houghton .............. Madeira
Dr. A. T. lshkanian ................... Mexico
Mrs. Alice W. Manning ................. Turkey

' 7i?

Angell Memorial Animal Hospital
and Dispensary for Animals
180 Longwood Avenue—Telephone Longwood 6100

Veterinarians

E. F. SCHROEDER, D.V.M., Chief of Staff
G. B. SCHNELLE, V.M.D., Asst. Chief

. SCHNEIDER, V.M.D.

. MUNSON, V.M.D.

. BLAKELY, V.M.D.

. ARLEIN, D.V.M.

.. . SCAMMAN, D.V.M.

* . . WILCOX, D.V.M.

N. L. GREINER, D.V.M.

FRED KEEFE, V.S., B.V.Sc.

W. D. JONES, V.S., B.V.Sc.

HARRY L. ALLEN, Superintendent

Springfield Branch
Telephone 4-7355
53-57 Bliss Street, Springfield, Mass.

gn—IW
Iml—OI

-:‘ i:
.
.

Veterinarians
A. R. EVANS, V.M.D.
*R. L. LEIGHTON, V.M.D.
H. B. SIEGLE, D.V.M.
H. J. KOPP. MD

V. . . -
R. M. BARLOW, V.M.D.
*On leave of absence— military service

 

 




   

     

   

 

 

 

 

    

   

 

    

  
 
      
   
 

     

r

 

h;

1

 

 

'r—v‘" .

     

a"

p

 

 

   
   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

NIMALS




 

 

From the

PRESIDENT’S DESK

 

 

OCTOBER 16, 1944, was the ninety-
eighth anniversary of the discovery
of ether. Who shall measure the suﬁer—
ing this discovery has saved innumerable
men, women, children and animals dur-
ing these near ﬁve—score years! The
increasing number of animals whose
lives are saved, or whose maladies are
relieved by the skilful veterinary sur-
geon, share with humanity in this in-
estimable blessing to the world.

4.3

THOSE were wise words of Carlyle

when, facing the world of his day,
with its unsolved problems and the un-
known future, with faith in the Eternal
Goodness, he said, “Our need is Patience,
silence, hope.” Those words are as true
for our time as they were for his.

a

E came upon a Latin proverb the“

other day whose signiﬁcance not
a few will appreciate. “J udex damnatur
cum nocens absolvitur”—The acquittal of
the guilty is the condemnation of the
judge.
a

I am only ONE
But still I AM one
I cannot do EVERYTHING
And because I cannot do EVERYTHING
I will not REFUSE to do the
SOMETHING that I CAN do.

éEdward Everett Hale

4.3

HESE are times that call for courage,

cheer and a sane optimism. The world
will yet sit down and stop rocking the
boat. Suppose we talk occasionally of our
hopes instead of our fears.

C H R I S T M A S
Nineteen Hundred F orty-Four

“The hopes and fears of all the years
Are met in thee tonight.”

HESE are the words with which
Phillips Brooks wrote of that “Little
Town of Bethlehem,” where was born, in
far-off J udea, nearly 2,000 years ago,
the Child whose birth gave us our Christ-
mas. And still today the hopes and fears

‘of all the years meet in Him as they did

that night in the lowly manger where
He lay.

Christmas comes, we say, but once a
year. But He is ever coming—coming
to the hearts of men with the divinest
message humanity has ever heard.

N o wonder Christmas Day is the Day
of Days. Whatever it may 'bring us this
year of joy or sorrow, it is our assurance

. that “Peace on Earth and Good Will

toward Men” is still life’s ﬁnal goal.

To every reader of these words we
send our Christmas and. New Year greet-

ing.
@,

Tolstoy’s Last Words

EFORE he passed from earth, the

great Tolstoy left this farewell mes-
sage to the world:

“Instead of returning evil with evil,
try to return evil with good; to say
nothing ill of men; to act kindly even
with the ox and dog. Live thus one day,
two days or more and compare the state
of your mind with its state in former
days. Make the attempt and you will
see how the dark, evil modes have passed
away and how the soul’s happiness has
increased. Make the attempt and you
will see that the gospel of love brings not
merely proﬁtable words, but the greatest
and most desired of all things.”

A Legal Victory

UR Society has endeavored, to the
best of its ability, to see that the

law, passed some ten years ago in this
Commonwealth, forbidding the showing
of horses with setup tails, was observed.

Recently, in the western part of the
State, four violators of this law were
taken into the district court of Pittsﬁeld.
The Judge found them all guilty and
assessed a ﬁne of ﬁfty dollars in each
case. The defendants ﬁled appeals which
are now pending. 'To us the evidence
seems so clear that we have no reason to
expect a different result on the appeal.

The managers of all these shows were
notiﬁed, of course, before the shows came
off, of the existing law, and told that our
agents would be there to see that it was
enforced.

a .

Even to the Least

ICTOR HUGO once said of that
bishop whom all readers of “Les
Miserables” will never forget, “He
sprained his ankle once trying to avoid
stepping on an ant.” He belonged to the
order of those who would not “needlessly
set foot upon a worm.” This attitude
toward life, even when we meet it in its
lowliest forms, can be cultivated in chil-
dren if parents start early enough. If
there are harmful creatures whose mean—
ing we cannot understand and which must
be destroyed, let the destruction be
without unnecessary suffering and never
in the spirit of cruelty.

cﬁ

OT what we say, not what, we do, but
what we are, is the real measure
of our worth to the world.

 




 

February 19.41;

Retired Workers’ Fund

E are receiving gifts to the Ameri—

can Humane Education Society as a
trust fund, the interest to be used for the
beneﬁt of ﬁeld missionaries and others
who have spent their lives in promoting
humane education. Already several cases
have come to our attention and are being
relieved in this way. We will welcome
your contribution to this fund.

Please make checks payable to Albert
A. Pollard, Treasurer, American Humane
Education Society, 180 Longwood Ave—
nue, Boston, and specify that the amount
contributed is for the Humane Educa-
tion Trust Fund.

:13

Liberal Annuity Rates
ADVANTAGES

No coupons to clip, no papers to sign and
mail. You simply receive your checks at
stated intervals—that’s all there is to it.

Annuity agreements are frequently used
to provide for one’s or another’s future
years.

It is no experiment. There is no anxiety.
No fluctuations in rate of income. No
waste of your estate by a will contest.

a: a: a: a:

A pamphlet giving necessary information
gladly sent upon request.

The Massachusetts 5. P. C. A., or the
American Humane Education Society, 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston 15.

The management of our invested funds is
a guarantee of the security of these Life
Annuities.

RATES OF MEMBERSHIP IN

THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
OR THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.

Active Life $100 00 Active Annual $10 00

Associate Life 50 00 Associate Annual 5 00

Sustaining Life 20 00 Annual 1 00
Children’s $0 75

Checks and other payments may be sent to ALBERT
A. POLLARD, Treasurer, 180 Longwood Avenue.
Boston 15.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

HOSPITAL REPORT FOR DECEMBER
At 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston 15

Cases entered in Hospital ..... 842
Cases entered in Dispensary . . . 1,399
Operations .................. 253

At Springﬁeld Branch, 53 Bliss Street

Cases entered in Hospital ..... 210
Cases entered in Dispensary . . . 625
Operations .................. 142

At Attlebor-o Clinic, 3 Commonwealth Ave.

Cases entered ............... 60
Totals
Hospital cases since opening
Mar. 1, 1915 .............. 227,877
Dispensary cases ............. 571,859
Total ............. 799,736

DECEMBER REPORT OF THE OFFI-

CERS OF THE MASSACHUSETTS
S. P. C. A., WITH HEADQUARTERS AT
BOSTON, METHUEN, SPRINGFIELD,

PITTSFIELD, ATTLEBORO, WENHAM,
HYANNIS, WORCESTER, FITCHBURG,
NORTHAMPTON, HAVERHILL, HOL-
YOKE, ATHOL, COVERING THE EN-
TIRE STATE.

Miles traveled by humane ofﬁcers 13,825
Cases investigated ............ 249
Animals examined ............ 8,423
Animals placed in homes ....... 275
Lost animals restored to owners 67
Number of prosecutions ........ 8
Number of convictions ......... 6
Horses taken from work ........ 4
Horses humanely put to sleep . . . 44
Small animals humanely put to
sleep ...................... 1,582
Horse auctions attended ........ 13
Stockyards and Abattoirs
Animals inspected ............. 47,469
Cattle, swine and sheep humanely
put to sleep ................ 34

 

 

tion with any other similar Society.

FORM OF

property. describe the property).

given gladly.

 

 

TO OUR FRIENDS

In making your will. kindly bear in mind that the corporate title of our Society is "The Massachu—
setts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals": that it is the second incorporated (March.
I868) Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals in the country. and that it has no connec-

Any bequest especially intended for the benefit of the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital. should.
nevertheless. be made to the Massachusetts Society tor the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals "tor
the use of the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital." as the Hospital is not incorporated but is the
property of that Society and is conducted by it.

I give to The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (or to the
American Humane Education Society), the sum ot ................ dollars, (or. it other

The Society's address is I80 Longwood Avenue. Boston l5. Mass. Information and advice will be

BEQUEST

 

 

 

 

Page 33

Care of the Christmas Puppy

RAISIN G a puppy entails mostly com-

mon sense, patience and love, and
companionship of your pet. One must ex-
pect to spend time and effort to raise a
healthy, well-mannered dog.

The puppy’s sleeping quarters must be
clean, dry and moderately warm. The
bedding should be of the type that is easy
to wash and air, or that can be discarded
frequently and replaced by fresh. A good
place for the bed is under the kitchen
stove, or if there is a warm dry basement,
the puppy may be bedded there. On
cement or dirt ﬂoors, the bed should be
raised ten to twelve inches above the ﬂoor.

Young puppies should not be bathed——
especially winter puppies. Puppy groom-
ing should consist of frequent (daily
preferably) brushing and combing of
long—haired breeds. This will keep your
pet clean smelling and glossy.

Plenty of fresh air and exercise is es-
sential for the well-being of all dogs. It
is possible to combine exercising of the
puppy with his housebreaking training.
A puppy learns by association of ideas
and he learns to associate elimination
with a certain plan. Puppies are most
likely to relieve themselves after feeding
or after awakening. At these times take
the puppy to the place you want him to
use. If you take him outside take him
to the same area of the yard each time.
Praise him when he obeys; reprimand
him with cross words when he disobeys.
Above all, be patient and do your part
as well as you expect him to do his.

Feeding is always an important part
of a dog’s care and the puppy, now, must
be fed patriotically as well as whole-
somely. Beef and milk are rationed and
we must ﬁnd adequate substitutes. Young
puppies need to be fed four or ﬁve times
a day, at regular intervals. The amount
of food depends upon the breed of dog——
the larger breeds requiring more food,
of course, than the smaller ones. A sug-
gested diet would include milk and cereal
twice a day alternating with chopped
meat and cooked, mashed vegetables (in
older puppies, four to ﬁve months) at the
other feeding. A daily addition of cod
liver oil to the diet is extremely beneﬁ-
cial. A substitute for beef may be par-
tially cooked, ground horse meat, liver,
kidney and heart and glandular organs,
as spleen, brains, etc. Highly seasoned
and cured meats should not be fed. There
are many cereals that may be fed to vary
the diet and tempt the appetite. These
include the baby cereals, the cooked ce-
reals, as oatmeal, boiled rice, cornmeal
mush, etc., the dry breakfast cereals and,
of course, the prepared dog cereals.

A puppy should be taught early to
gnaw a large marrow bone. It will pro-
vide calcium and phosphorus, minerals
essential to bone growth.

N. L. G., Veterinary Dept.
Angell Animal Hospital

 




J anuary 1 941,

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

6‘ J okko,” the Hearing-E31" Dog

By J ULIETTE LAINE

LTHOUGH we all know about the
Seeing-Eye Dogs, few of us have

heard about J okko, who renders a

similar service to his owners by being a
Hearing-Ear Dog. He belongs to the
Misses Genevieve and Adelaide Calkins,
of San Francisco, two elderly-ladies who
are deaf. He has been trained to bark and
attract their attention when the doorbell
rings, when tradesmen call, when the
postman drops letters into the box, and at
any other sound, whether strange or

familiar. He barks until he has at-‘

tracted the attention of one of the ladies,
then leads her to the door or place from
which the sound came. '

Recently, Jokko distinguished himself
in a new and very special way, for he
doubtless saved his owners’ lives by his
ability to detect escaping gas. He must
have sensed it was dangerous, for he
immediately dashed to the ladies’ bed-
room and awakened them. They could not
understand what he was trying to tell
them, but as his barks grew more in-
sistent they called John Collier, a friend
who lived next door and who had origi-

nally trained J okko, and asked him to in-

terpret the dog’s frantic yelps.

Guided by J okk-o, Mr. Collier went to
the cellar, where the gas furnace was
located. (It was summertime and the
furnace was not in use, and in addition
the gas used in California is almost
odorless, which makes the dog’s feat of
deduction all the more remarkable.) Fol-
lowing the dog’s lead, Collier opened the
door of the furnace and trained his ﬂash—
light inside. He immediately saw that
one of the pipes had broken at a joint and
that the gas was escaping and being car-

ried by ﬁnes to all parts of the house.

Repair men, hastily summoned, declared
that the gas thus seeping into the room
of the sleeping women would undoubtedly
have asphyxiated them in a short time.
Jokko, smelling the gas as it drifted
through the open grills set into the wall,
recognized the odor and realized its
danger. He also realized that its source
was in the basement furnace and that he
must induce someone to accompany him
down there in order to turn it off. An
amazing proof of the dog’s superior
intelligence and reasoning power!

4%

Clownish Kookaburra . . . .

HE clown of Australia’s numerous species of birds, and one of
the best known, is the kookaburra, or, to give him his earliest
popular title, the “laughing jackass.” Indeed, this member of the

 
 

kingﬁsher family, which is slightly larger than our American crow, is

so highly admired in the “down under” land that he has been featured '

a number of times on Australian postage stamps, an honor shared by
very few birds of the Commonwealth.

The kookaburra is commonly known in his native land as “Jack,” and
his friendly disposition and amusing, clownish antics, both in the air
and on the ground, have won for him a place on the feathered folks’
popularity chart which is exceeded in rating only by the emu, Aus-
tralia’s national bird.

The kookaburra’s raucous laughter, consisting of a series of throaty
notes combined into a chuckling sound, can be heard throughout the
open forest land of southern Australia where “Jack” ﬁnds surrounding.

and climate particularly to his liking, and often at dusk the call of"

one bird will be the keynote for a chorus in which a large number will
30m.

Laws that are strict and well enforced protect “Jack” from those who
would harm him, and as a snake killer he has won many a friend. Some
Australian wildlife authorities claim that this remarkable bird can
swallow snakes up to three feet in length! If he can’t swallow them
whole, he carves them in convenient lengths with his powerful bill.
“Jack” delights in taking a snake up in the air to a height of several
hundred feet, there to drop it and watch it tumble earthward.

Tame “Jacks” become so friendly that they will take food from the
hand of those who treat them kindly. But once they become suspicious
of the intentions of anyone attempting to strike up an acquaintance,
they hold themselves aloof, as though they are questioning your motives.
Like an elephant, they never forget an injury, and they eye with dis-
trust anyone who treats them harshly.

    

Page 5

Glider That Was Alive

LIDERS have been much used in the

present war. Taking advantage of
wind currents troops may be carried hun-
dreds of miles without the aid of a motor.
But did you ever hear of the glider that
was alive?

This glider was a prehistoric creature
called “pteranodon.” Skeletons, that have
been found, show that it had a wing-
spread of twenty feet. It was discovered
in the Kansas chalk formation.

These gigantic ﬂying reptiles were the
most astonishing of all extinct creatures
yet unearthed. They are a puzzle to men
who have given their lives to a study of
the creatures that roamed about our
country in the ages before history was
recorded.

The pteranodon’s method of ﬂying was
different from those of birds. They had
no feathers. They had wings much like
a bat, except that they could not be
folded back against the body. Its body was
very small, weighing only 25 or 30
pounds. It could remain aloft for long
periods of time and ventured far out
over the sea. It fed upon ﬁsh which it
obtained by skimming close to the water
and darting its great bill down to pick
up ﬁsh swimming near the water’s sur-
face.

——Ma,x Meredith

By WILBERT N. SAVAGE

The Kookaburra has proved so valuable that strict laws

were enacted to protect it.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   




 

 

 

 

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

 

 

33

HO'RSES' CHRISTMAS GETS OFF TO A BIG START

Dr. Francis H. Rowley. with the first holiday dinner in his hands. is interviewed by Roberta
Green. While they tell the public all about it. the horses wait impatiently for the first
snack of the holiday season.

Horses’ Christmas

OR over a quarter of a century the

Massachusetts S. P. C. A. has cele—
brated the Horses’ Christmas. For the
past holiday season, Dr. Francis H. Row-
ley, President, who in 1916 conceived the
idea of playing Santa Claus to work
horses at Christmas time, marked the
opening of this year’s celebration by per-
sonally serving the ﬁrst holiday dinner
to a team of work horses which appeared
in the market district of Boston. He was
interviewed on the spot by Roberta Green
and, in addition, Dr. Rowley appeared in
a broadcast, through the facilities of
WEEI, at Faneuil Hall, during which he
told the story of the founding of this
annual celebration.

As a forerunner to the event, Dr. Row-
ley’s secretary, Miss Margaret J. Kearns,
gave an interview to Priscilla Fortescue,
on December 16, on the latter’s program
“Good Morning, Ladies.”

7

Throughout the day, a horse—drawn
truck, bearing a decorated Christmas
tree and laden with oats and carrots and
apples, moved around the city where
horses were to be found in greatest num—
ber. Coffee and doughnuts were served
to the drivers. The remainder of the
food was distributed at various stables.

on the "Care of the Dog.'l

 

SOCIETY PUBLISHES NEW LEAFLETS ON ANIMAL CARE

Dr. Erwin F. Schroeder. Chief of Staff of the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital. and
Miss Rose M. McCarthy. Hospital employee.

February 19.41;

Medal for Bravery

EN recognition of his bravery in saving

a dog from drowning, David Hoar,
Boston College football and baseball star,
was presented a medal by Fred T. Vick-
ers, Essex County Agent of the Massa-
chusetts S. P. C. A.

The rescue of the dog from Forest
River occurred when Hoar noticed the
animal clinging to the broken ice about
15 yards from shore. Removing part of
his clothing, Hoar went to the rescue and
succeeded in bringing it to shore.

@

American F ondouk, Fez
Report for October, 1943

Daily average large animals: 23.5

Daily average dogs: 15.5

Animals put to sleep: 8
Entries: 11 horses. (3 mules, 51 donkeys
Exits: 6 horses, 6 mules, 46 donkeys
Outpatients: 190 horses, 58 mules, 350 donkeys,

and 3 dogs

Fondouks visited .......................... 3 3
Animals inspected ........................ 7,381
Animals treated .......................... 366
Animals sent in ........................... 123
Pack-saddles destroyed .................... 2
Animals sent by Police Department ...... 9

Amount of our expenses for the month:
$297.55.
GUY DELON
Superintendent

 

scan the Society's newly published leaflet

while reassuring "Nips." curious bystander. that with the aid

of the publication. his canine palsl should they be pr

ries as to their future care and treatment. Similar leaflets are also available on the "Care
of the Cat" and the "Care of the Horse."

esented as gifts. would have no wor-

 




 

 

 

 

 

7‘ Rx
éwcmcuee ’75 GLO6

Editor — WILLIAM A. SWALLOW
Assistant Editor — WILLIAM M. MORRILL

sir

 

 

IMPORTANT!
OUR MAIL ADDRESS

No mail whatsoever should be sent
to us at 46 Central Street, Nor-
wood. Massachusetts. This address is
simply one which we must maintain
in compliance with Post Otfice reg-
ulations.

Mail so addressed is sometimes
delayed a matter of weeks before we
receive it.

 

CORRECT ADDRESS

We ask your cooperation in this
matter. It will help us to serve you
more promptly if you will use our
correct address.

At the bottom of this column you
will find the address to which all come
munications should be sent.

Please use it now and in all future
correspondence.

 

 

 

 

 

 

SUBSCRIPTION RATES

One dollar per year. Postage free to any part of
the world.

All dollar subscriptions sent direct to the office
entitle the sender to membership in either of our
two Societies.

MANUSCRIPTS relating to animals. particularly
prose articles of about 300 words. are solicited.
We do not wish to consider prose manuscripts
longer than 500 words nor verse in excess of twenty-
iour lines. The shorter the better. All manuscripts
should be typewritten and an addressed envelope
with full return postage enclosed with each ottering.

Published monthly by The Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals. Publica-
tion office. 46 Central Street. Norwood, Massachu-
setts. Entered as second-class matter. June 29.
I9l7. at the Post Office at Norwood. Mass.. under
the Act of March 3. I879. Acceptance for mailing
at special rate of postage provided for in section
IIO3. Act of October 3. l9l7, authorized. July
I3. I9I9.

Address all communications to Editorial Office.
l80 Longwood Avenue. Boston l5. Mass.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS ‘

Founded by Geo. T. Angelll I868 U. S. Trade Mark Registered
VOLUME 77—No 4 APRILI I944.

PUBLISHED BY

THE MASSACHUSETTS SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS
AND
THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY

it

Officers

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY. President
ERIC H. HANSEN. Executive Vice-President
ALBERT A. POLLARDI Treasurer
WILLIAM A. SWALLOWI Secretary
PEABODYI BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

it

Trustees of Permanent Funds

JOHN R. MACOMBER. Chairman of the Boa-rdl First Boston Corporation

CHARLES G. BANCROFT. Vice-President and Chairman Finance CommitteeI
United Shoe Machinery Corporation

CHARLES E. SPENCER, JR.. President. First National Bank of Boston

71?
Massachusetts S, P, C. A, American Humane Education Society
JOSEPH MOONEY, Treasurer’s Assistant Field Workers 0f the SOCIGTY
Prosecuting Officers in Boston Mrs. Alice L. Park, Palo Alto, California

Telephone (Complaints, Ambulances) Longwood 6100 Mrs. James D“ Burton, Harriman, Tennessee
Mrs. Florida L. Byrne, Tacoma, Washington

' _ ' Mrs. Katherine Weathersbee, Atlanta, Georgia

L‘ WILLARD WALKER’ Ch'ef Officer Rev. Dr. F. Rivers Barnwell, Fort Worth, Texas

HARRY L. ALLEN HOWARD WILLAND Rev. John W. Lemon, Ark, Virginia .
HARVEY R. FULLER J. ROBERT SMITH

Miss Lucia F. Gilbert, Boston, Massachusetts
Rev. R. E. Griffith, De Land, Florida
Field Representative
Dr. Wm. F. H. Wentzel, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

County Prosecuting Officers
HERMAN N. DEAN, Boston Middlesex and Norfolk

FRED T. VICKERS. Wenham Eastern Essex Foreign Corresponding Representatives
WILLIAM W. HASWELL, Methuen Western Essex E. J. H. Escobar ...................... Colombia
JOSEPH E. HASWELL, Methuen Western Essex Luis Pareja Cornejo .................... Ecuador
FRED F. HALL, Springfield Leonard T. Hawksley ................... Italy
Hampden' Hampshire and Franklin 5. C. BaTra ........................... India
HARRY C. SMITH, Worcester Worcester Mrs. Marie C. E. Houghton .............. Madeira
CHARLE E B O , Dr. A. T. lshkanian ................... Mexico
S ' R WN’ Attleboro, Bristol and Plymouth Mrs. Alice W. Manning ................. Turkey
HAROLD G. ANDREWS, Hyannis
Barnstable, Dukes and Nantucket “A?
T. KING HAS‘WELL, Pittstield Berkshire
Angell Memorial Animal Hospital
Rest Farm for Horses and Small Animal Shelter, and DISPensarY for AnimaIs
Methuen

I80 Longwood Avenue-—Telephone Longwood 6100
W. W. HASWELL, Superintendent

Veterinarians

Other Small Animal Shelters of M. s. P. c. A. E- F- SCHROEDER, D-V-M-l Chief of Staff
Boston, 180 Longwood Avenue *G. B. SCHNELLE, V.M.D., Asst. Chief
Springfield. 53-57 Bliss Street H' SCHNEIDER’ V'M'D'
Pittsfield, 224 Cheshire Road 0' MUNSON’ V'M'D'
Attleboro, 3 Commonwealth Avenue L' BLAKELY’ V'M'D'
Hyannis, State Road, Rte. 28, Centerville 5' ARLEIN’ D'V°M'
Wenham, Cherry Street T ‘ H' SCAMMAN’ D'V'M'

*W, A. WILCOX, D.V.M.

N. L. GREINER, D.V.M.

H. B. SIEGLE, D.V.M.
Northampton Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.—PROF. FRED KEEFE, V.S., B.V.S.

Holyoke Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.——AARON M. Springfield Branch
BAGG, Pres.; BROOKS WHITE, Treas. T
elephone 4-7355

Springfield Branch Auxiliary—MRS. ROBERT R.

Fina?

Branches and Auxiliaries

MILLER, Pres.; MRS. H. w. STOCKBOWER, Treas. 53'57 8"“ Street Spr'“gf'e'dl Mass-
W- h t B h A 1 MISS GLADYS O S Veterinarians
inc es er ranc uXI iary— F LT ,
Vice—Pres; MRS. DANIEL c. DENNETT, Treas. A' R' EVANSgg-MLP-LEIGHTON HVIMEMEAD. D.V.M.

Boston Work Committee of 'Mass. 5. P. C. A.—— H‘ J‘ KOPP’ V'M‘D'
MRS. GEORGE D. COLPAS, Chairman. *On leave of absence—military service

 




 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
   
  
 
  
 
   
  
 
 
   
 
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
  
   
   
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
 
 
   
 
  
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

‘ ‘TTS’A .

 

 
   
 

 

The lion. although king of the beasts. is not the strongest
animal. being outclassed by both Jrhe American grizzly bear

and the Indian tiger.

has a third more strength.

easily.

&

Dog Lovers Speak

ANY good things can be said
about a dog. And volumes are
yet to be written, uttered and

thought about that beloved canine ani-
mal’s noble qualities and unselﬁsh serv-
ices to mankind.

How worthy of affection and kindness
the dog is, was quickly and feelingly told
recently in a deluge of letters to the edi-
tor of The Providence (R. I.) Journal.
They came in response to a published
letter in which a subscriber called dogs
ﬁlthy “ﬁea farms” and dog-lovers, per-
sons who are frustrated.

“Not in a long time, if ever, has the
correspondence department . . . witnessed
such a reaction among its readers,”
the editor said at the end of a week.
A halt ﬁnally had to be called to letters
on the subject.

A soldier from Fort Devens wrote ask-
ing if the “dog—loather” knew that many
dogs were serving their country in the

war, giving their lives just as men were

doing.

An 11-year old girl asked what life
would mean to many blind persons with-
out their Seeing-Eye dogs. She said she
could not understand how anyone could
feel as the complainant did. She had a
dog “who is a very loyal and true friend.”

A stenographer wrote concerning all
the famous people who have dogs as pets
and companions. Heading the list was
President Roosevelt and his “Falla,” then

General Dwight D. Eisenhower and his
pet cocker spaniel, then the crew of the
famous Flying Fortress, “Memphis
Belle” and their Scotty “Stuka” who ac-
companied them on all their successful
bombing missions.

A scholar quoted Senator G. Graham
Vest’s tribute to a dog named “Drum,”
part of which reads: “The one absolute
unselﬁsh friend that man can have in
this selﬁsh world, the one that never
deserts him, the one that never proves
ungrateful or treacherous, is his dog.

“Gentlemen of the Jury, a man’s dog
stands by him in prosperity and in
poverty, in health and in sickness . . .
and whenthe last scene comes, and death
takes the master in its embrace and his
body is laid away in the cold ground, no
matter if all other friends pursue their
way, there by his grave will the noble
dog be found, his head between his paws,
his eyes sad but open in alert watchful—
ness, faithful and true to death.”

--~Add to these the instances where dogs
have , barked to - warn their sleeping
masters Of’ja house aﬁre, or where they
have found men trapped or injured and
gone for help. Add their service in
frightening away thieves, their protec-

tion to women left alone. in a house at-

night. Add';their patience, their humility,
their stability, and man, indeed, has much
he can say about dogs

—Virgznia H ornby H owland

  
   

January I 9111;

Champion “Strong Men”

HE real “strong men” of the world are to be found, not among
the members of the human race, but in the animal kingdom. And
one of the strongest of them is our American grizzly bear. He is
stronger then either the lion or the tiger, twice as strong as the largest
African. lion. And the lion is not as strong as the Indian tiger which

The gorilla, which is about the size of a man, has, whe‘n full-grown,
the strength of four strong men. He can bend the barrels of a shotgun

The camel can carry 500 pounds on his back, without stopping to
eat or drink. The elephant can carry half a ton.

But the real champions are to be found among the insects. A ﬂea
can pull 1,100 times its own weight. If a man were as strong in pro—
portion, a man of 150 pounds could pull a load weighing 821/2 tons. The
ﬂea can also jump a hundred times its own height. In order to equal
it, a man would have to make a standing jump of 600 feet in the air

If the ant were as large as a man he could pick up a load weighing
half a ton and carry it to the top of Washington Monument.

When it comes to hard work the insects are far ahead of us. The wild
bee will dig a hole ﬁve or six times it own size in a hard bank of
earth. Then, when it has ﬁnished, it goes after food and stocks the
cell; then begins another, with hardly a pause to eat and sleep.

For strength and endurance, the best men are inferior to the little
creatures that crawl under our feet.

—Albert A. Rand

When a. Sheep’s Not a Sheep

HEN is a sheep not a sheep? When

it’s dead; then it’s mutton. So a
pig is pork, a calf is veal, a steer is beef,
a deer becomes venison, when they are
on the table to eat.

Have you ever wondered why these
names are changed when the animal is
killed and used for food?

The reason is found in a great his-
torical. event which occurred nearly nine
hundred years ago. In the year 1066 the
Normans, led by William the Conqueror,
conquered what is now England and be—
came the rulers of the land. As they
were French, the French language be-
came the ofﬁcial language of the court
and the ruling classes.

However, the common people, the
Anglo-Saxons who were the original in—
habitants, kept on using their own tongue.
Many of them were servants of the
conquerOrs. They had the care of the
live animals which they called by the
Saxon names such as ox, cow, pig, calf,
sheep, deer and so on.

But when the animals were killed for
food'they were killed to be eaten by the
French masters. Naturally the con-
querors gave the meat the French names
instead of the Saxon. So, while the Saxon
servant who cared for his masters called
a sheep a sheep, the Frenchman called it
mouton. An ox was boeuf, and so on.
The names have remained and that is why
many of these animals are called by dif-
ferent names after they are dead.




January 1 91,1,

Pocket

Mouse

E FLIES through the air with the
greatest of ease this Pocket

Mouse without a trapeze. He

doesn’t exactly ﬂy, of course, but he does
leap as much as three or four feet in a
single jump and so fast that you would
need the eyes of a magician to follow him.
He is an inhabitant of our Southwestern
desert and he is so small that you would
think he belonged in some elﬁn world. He
weighs but an ounce and lives under piles

of rocks out on the sand. He can exist

indeﬁnitely without water.

The Pocket Mouse has small ears and
bright brown eyes and a long tail with a
bush on the end of it like a lion’s, which
he drags after him on the sand. How—
ever, when he is in motion he uses it
like the aileron of a plane, throwing it
forwards when jumping and backwards
when landing.

If he is fortunate enough to have
campers choose his playground for a
camp, he is delighted. He cleans away

Kitten Smells Smoke
While Dog Sleeps

ECAUSE their Siamese kitten cried
and scratched on their bedroom door
and roused them, when ﬁre started in
their living room in the middle of the
night recently, Mr. and Mrs. George
Meyerink of Cos Cob, Conn., and their
children, got out in time. Their retriever,
also sleeping in the living room, missed
the chance to be a hero. -
The Mey'erinks believe the kitten was
sleeping on the back of a chair or sofa,
so that the rising smoke assailed her
nostrils before the dog, lying on the
carpet, breathed any. When Mr. Meyer-
ink went back into the house for .the
kitten, after getting his family to safety,
he found her with her wise little black
nose stuck in a pot of ivy, to avoid the
thickening smoke.
The retriever inhaled so much smoke
he had to be treated by a veterinary.

—Elz‘sabeth van Praag Dudley

a

Our readers are urged to clip from
“Our Dumb Animals” various articles
and request local editors to republish.
Such copies of the magazine so mutilated
will be replaced by us upon application,
if so desired.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

every crumb dropped and licks the ski]-
lets so clean they shine. And if there is
a burro in the party, then he knows he is
lucky for he can store away much food.
He and a half-dozen companions can
carry away as much as ﬁve pounds of

4%

Page ’7

Fish and Wildlife Service
Pocket Mouse caught ﬁlling his pockets with rolled oats.

grain in a single night. The Pocket Mouse
loads his cheek pouches with food until
he looks like two tiny balloons with a
mouse between them. Blackouts mean
nothing to him since he works at night.
—R. S. O’Connor

A Cat That Cared

N ORDER to refute the frequent as-
sertion that cats lack affection and
loyalty, I recall an incident which

happened in our home many years ago.

When our big black house-cat,
“Prince,’ contracted mange, we children
were much distressed, because we were no
longer allowed to play with him. Father,
who had studied medicine, tried in every
way to help the condition, but it grew
steadily worse. There were no Humane
Societies in our town to put the sufferer
painlessly to sleep, so we made him as
comfortable as possible in a padded box
outside of the back door. Prince was now,
no longer our patient little playfellow;
he sat hunched and lonely out beside the
cellar door, and we were lonely, too.

One day we saw that a gray cat was
there, sitting close beside the invalid.
This cat, also a male, came every day
after that, and sat quietly for a time be-
side Prince, seemingly to comfort the
sufferer, and we fed them both.

Then on one cold winter’s morning,
Father called us to see that the gray cat
friend was there, and had draped him-
self crosswise over the almost hairless
back of the ailing one, evidently in an ef-
fort to keep him warm. It was not long
afterward that our cat died, and was

)

buried out back of the chicken house, and
a piece of old tin rooﬁng laid over the
place. Then the gray cat went away.

About a week later we found the gray
cat dead also. It had crept under the
edge of the tin covering, and lay over
the place where Prince was buried.

——Mary G. Brande

@

The Patient Voiceless
By MINNIE LEONA UPT‘ON

Through all the harried regions,
Hard-racked by human pain,
The feet of weary legions
Press on, with might and main,
Hard—yet they know the “wherefore"
Of all this mortal strife,
And war with PURPOSE, therefore,-
But the VOICELESS yield dear life.
Unknowing and uncaring,
With neither hope nor pride,
And all their patient bearing
To them is vainly tried.

Father of boundless mercy,
Help us to ease their pain;

Hear, while we voice the solemn vow:
“This shall not be again!”

 




.WA 4 4’4 romﬂf

 

June 1944

Extinction
0

Wild Life

By F. J. WORRALL

THE BEAUTIFUL ZEBRA IS RAPIDLY DIMINISH-

ING IN NUMBERS. THE MOUNTAIN ZEBRA.

ONCE SO PLENTIFUL IN THE MOUNTAINS OF
CAPE COLONY. IS NOW VERY RARE.

ANY of the mammals, birds, and
reptiles that once inhabited the
earth no longer exist and many
others, though still numbered among the
living, are vanishing almost under our
eyes. Left to themselves, Nature’s dynas-
ties rise and fall over long periods of time.
Then comes Man with the ruthless thing
he calls civilization and the consequent
building of villages, towns and cities in
places that were scarcely inhabited ex-
cept by the creatures of the wild; the
slaughter of animals for the sake of
fur, tusks, antlers or horns, and the wide-
spread use of ﬁrearms, all of which have
contributed, and still are contributing, to
the destruction and disappearance of wild
life.

The cat family, for instance, is an ex-
tensive one, but some kinds are becoming
scarce. Among them may be mentioned
Pallas’s Cat and the Scottish Wild Cat.
The former, which comes from Tibet, is
considered to be the ancestral stock from
which the long-haired Persians arose.
The Wild Cat of (Scotland, once so numer-
ous in various parts of England, Scot-
land and Wales, now frequents only re-
mote rocks and forests of the Scottish
Highlands. It is a beautiful creature, a
ﬁerce hunter and a fearless ﬁghter.

Another feline that is fast disappear—
ing is the lovely Snow Leopard or Ounce.
It has a beautifully rosetted white coat
wiic‘gl has sealed its doom, for numbers

OUR DUMB

ANIMALS

 

are killed for the sake of their fur. What
few are left dwell among the snows of
the Central Asian Mountains.

Among other animals which are rap-
idly diminishing are various species of
zebra. The last Quagga, somewhat like
the zebra in appearance, though only its
head, shoulders, and forepart of body
were striped, died in the London Zoo-
logical Gardens in 1864.

The True, or Mountain Zebra, once so
plentiful in the' mountains of Cape
Colony, is now very rare.

Many Antelopes are quickly diminish-
ing. The Bontebok, for example, no
longer- exists in a wild state, the few
herds that are left are protected by
private ownership. Among others which
once roamed the African plains in huge
numbers, there is the White-tailed Gnu,
the Sable Antelope, the Greater Kudu,
the Bongo, and the Nyala. These are but
a few among the many that are rapidly
vanishing.

Everyone, of course, knows the story
of the American Bison, which formerly
roamed the prairies by the millions. It
is said that the last truly wild specimen
was killed in the eighties. However, a
few small herds were collected and liber-
ate-d in National Parks and, owing to this
protection, they have now increased in
numbers so rapidly that there is little

4%

Page 107

danger of extermination.

The fate of the European Bison, or
Wisent, which once roamed over the
greater part of EurOpe, has not been so
kind. The only ones that remain are in
captivity.

The Okapi, relative of the Giraffe, is
another rare animal that will soon cease
to exist.

There are also two wild dogs that are
verging on extinction, if not already ex-
tinct: One is the Red or Maned Wolf. The
one last known of was presented to the
London Zoological Gardens in 1920.
Noted for the great length of its legs,
and its nocturnal and solitary habits, it
had the reputation of never attacking
man.

The Bush-Dog, a short—legged, long—
bodied creature, also found in South
America, is believed now to be extinct.

The Paca-Rana, native of South Amer-
ica, is also disappearing. Mouselike in
appearance, it is two feet long.

The Brown Hyena or Strand-Wolf, for-
merly of Africa, is now numbered among
the missing, as are also various species
of Deer.

The diminution in numbers of the wild
life in Australia has been very marked
of late years, even the Koala, or Native
Bear, once sold as pets at railway sta-
tions, is now nearly extinct.

Poem for a New Parent . . . By GLADYS McKEE

Old loyalties are forgotten now,

The buried bone, the playful row
With neighboring spaniel and the wait
Each evening at the garden gate,
The squirrels, the tomcats and hares
Can go unchased for all she cares

And strangers come and go with ease.

So occupied is she with these
Newcomers at her side that she
Almost forgets old friends like me.
But like most parents, pride wins out
With mingled friendliness and doubt
She licks his face as I lift up

A satin smooth and day old pup.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

November 194/,

Animals
as

Weather
Prophets

By ETHEL R. ADAMSON

SHEEP SEEK CORNERS OF THE
PASTURE

ANY birds foretell a storm by warn-
ing cries and uneasy actions. Rooks
gather in large numbers and begin to ﬂy
in circles when bad weather threatens.
The rooster ﬂies on the gate and crows,
and the hens roll excitedly in the dust
and seek their food later in the evening.
The call of the woodpecker is a sign of
rain, also that of the guinea fowl and
the peacock. Geese will cackle loudly
when'a storm is brewing and blue jays
chatter.

When the sky begins to darken, sea
gulls assemble on shore, as they know
that the rain will bring earthworms to
the surface, and ducks go to the ﬁelds to
look for snails. This, however, is merely
a search for food and is due to the same
instinct which teaches the swallow to
ﬂy high in ﬁne weather, and skim along
the ground when foul is coming. The
different tribes of wading birds always
migrate before rain, likewise to hunt for
food.

Choice

By LALIA MITCHELL THORNTON

I fashioned a home for a robin,
And painted it yellow and red,
Then scattered some pieces of suet
And crumbled some slices of bread.

Just look at the home that I offer,
I boasted, it surely will please;
And I will come out every morning

To feed you on titbits like these.

But quickly it flew to the maple
And patched up its nest of last spring,
With grass from the edge of the meadow
And clay and some pieces of string.

And never sang even one Thank You!
Or what robins use for that term,
And, leaving my crumbs all untasted,
It went off in search at a worm.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

It is proverbial that “pigs see the
wind.” These animals become restless
and will carry straw and hay to hiding
places often hours before man is aware
of a coming storm. Sheep will skip about
and seek corners of the pasture protected
by trees and shrubs, when storm clouds
gather. Moles begin, too, to carry earth
with which to cover their holes, grass-
hoppers stgp singing, and frogs croak
loudly.

Old pussy cat in an uncanny way seems
to sense the approach of bad weather,
for when she rubs against a chair or
table leg, draws her paw across her fore-
head in washing her face, or frisks about
the house, it is a sure sign of rain.

Fish have a strong instinct with regard
to the changing of the weather, refusing
obstinately to rise at the most tempting
bait or ﬂies, when clouds charged with

a

 

thunder or rain are passing overhead.
. Spiders repay a close study of their

antics. Crawling more than usual pre-
dicts rain. Short strands of their web
ﬁrmly anchored are forerunners of rain;
while longer strands mean ﬁne weather.

But when the possibility of rain is
past, the ring dove again begins to coo
toward evening; the spider is busy
lengthening the strands of its web; the
lizards climb the bushes and bask in the
sun. With the approach of the ﬁne, warm
days, the robins sing high in the trees,
and the swallows begin "to carry mud and
straw to build their nests.

Indeed, all living creatures seem to
have a singular knowledge of changes in
the temperature, shifting their quarters
and changing their actions, as the com-
ing rain or dryness of the air warns
them.

How Ants Cross a Stream

HE insect known as the driver ant
is a most ferocious creature and per-
haps more to be feared than even the wild
animals and cannibals of Africa. They
travel like soldiers, in columns, and the
order of march is perfect. Their numbers
are so large as to be considered only in
astronomical ﬁgures.

Nothing is left in their path. Even
if they encounter an elephant there will
be nothing left of it after they pass
except a mass of whitened bones. Natives,
noting the approach of the driver ant
army, leave their villages and ﬂee in

terror. When they return all livestock
of every description has completely
vanished.

When the marching column comes to
a stream the ants unite and form them—

selves into balls, some as large as a
hornet’s nest, and roll out upon the water.
A given point on the other shore is
attained with uncanny accuracy, scouts
haying been ﬁrst sent out to locate the
best point of embarkation. Subsequent
balls cross in like manner until the entire
colony is on the opposite side.

The driver ant cannot stand direct
sunlight; therefore it works at night.
The soldiers of the colony, however, can
stand more sunlight than the workers, so
the former unite to form tubes about
one inch in diameter, through which the
workers pass without being subjected to
the fearful rays of the African sun. This
occurs in cases where they must make a
daylight pilgrimage.

——Marvin L. Whitaker

 




 

 

 

 

Page 92

 

 

 

John McNab Wilson

IT IS with deep regret that we learn of
the death of John McNab Wilson, last
January. One of the outstanding humane
leaders of America, Mr. Wilson spon-
sored many of the new laws for animal
protection introduced in Canada.

He was the founder and managing di-
rector of the Ontario S. P. C. A. which
he organized in 1919. For 35 years, he
was associated with the Toronto Humane
Society, resigning from the position of
managing director in July 1941, to devote
his time to the former organization.

The death of Mr. Wilson marks the
passing of yet another pioneer of the
humane movement. His work will be
missed, but his achievements will per-
petuate his memory in the hearts of all.

@

British Ministry and Cats

REAT BRITAIN, in the early part

of the war, feeling it necessary to
put to sleep a great many small animals
because of the lack, sometimes, of homes
for them and food for them, has at last
found that in the destruction of cats
they had made a serious mistake. Now,
the British Ministry of Supply is re-
ported to be recruiting an army of cats
to help exterminate rodents which are
infesting their secret food camps.

It is indeed gratifying to know that cats,
as well as dogs, are contributing to the
war effort both in this country and abroad.
It is our understanding that in England
now, cats are widely dispersed over prac-
tically the entire home front, in factories,
warehouses, stores, stations, ports, and
markets, and are on the payrolls of most
of the country’s municipalities, port au—
thorities, shipping companies, railways
and large commercial concerns. Further-
more, a special item on the balance sheet
details the outlay for their maintenance.
Also, working cats have been the sub-
ject of discussion at the Ministry of Food,
it is reported, and the Ministry has de—
cided to make special arrangements for
the owners to receive an adequate supply
of dried or canned milk for the cats.

War-ravaged areas are bound to suf-
fer from disease and famine due to the
rodent problem, and since the outbreak
of the war, every one of the more than
600 Humane Societies in this country
has protested vehemently against even
the suggestion of putting to sleep our
animal pets in order to save them from
possible air raids and serious effects
from bombings. The disposition of our
small animals would have left areas un—
protected against the rodent menace and
encouraged a spread of fatal diseases.

EDITORIALS

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

May 1941;

 

 

 

 

“By His Works ”

HE PICTURIZATION of ' “Lassie

Come Home” has once again brought
the author of this outstanding dog story
into the limelight.

Born in Yorkshire, England, in 1897,
Eric Knight once said when asked to
write his biography, “A man is nothing.
But what he works at—if that is any
good and if he believes in what he is
doing and sweats at it—that is every-
thing.” A clear indication of character,
is it any wonder that he could produce so
moving a tale of a lovable collie?

As a youth, Eric Knight worked in the
mills of Yorkshire and, although he sub-
sequently came to America and was
educated here, he never forgot the home
of his youth. It was his early experiences
which no doubt caused his championship
of the working classes and his under-
standing characterizations which mark
all his writings.

He joined a Canadian unit in the First
World War and died, serving his new
country, in the present War.

4%

Animals and Disease

VERY once in a while the question is
brought to the fore about whether
or not animals, especially pets, are the
carriers of diseases from which children
suffer. In fact, the suggestion has been
made by some extremists that the ex-
termination of the dog and cat would go
far toward the elimination of disease
among children. Taken at its face value,
much of this propaganda is so absurd
and so lacking in factual evidence as to
need no reply.

It is possible, certainly, that animals
might transmit skin diseases. For in-
stance, should a child handle a pet which
had just been romping about in poison ivy,
it is quite likely that its skin would break
out from this malady. In like manner, a
person may become infected from an un-
healed wound where ringworm has devel-
oped. But, as to the actual carrying of
the common childhood diseases, there is
certainly no medical testimony sufﬁcient
to prove that animals are carriers.

We contend that for untold years,
children have been brought up side by
side with pets and have grown to be
strong and healthy, even escaping in
many cases the usual maladies afﬂicting
young people. We see no reason—nor
have any arguments been advanced, as
yet, to change our minds—why such

family histories will not continue in the
majority of households.

Whatever slight hazard there may be,
it is offset a thousandfold by the in-
ﬂuence for good, the character building
value, which a pet has on its human
companions. We feel conﬁdent that ani-
mal lovers need not be alarmed at such
outbursts on the part of fanatics.

@

Lieutenant Rover
By BARBARA OVERTON

He’s never sailed in uniform
Beneath a waving pennant,
But proudly we salute him, now,
Our Navy’s new lieutenant.

He’s never had to march in drill,
Nor pass examinations.

He plays his part behind the lines
On strict civilian rations.

His eyesight isn’t extra keen,
His hearing isn’t super,
Although he bears his handicaps
Like any seasoned trooper.

His legs, they said, are much too short
For active K-9 service,

And when he hears a gun go off
He’s definitely nervous.

And so he’ll catch no Nazi spies,
He can’t detect a Zero,

But he supports the War Dog Fund,
And he’s a home front hero!

 

 

PHOTO CONTEST

In a search for "story-telling pic-
tures." we are announcing our annual
photographic contest to end June 30I
I944.

Cash prizes amounting to $95 and
ten additional prizes of subscriptions
to OUR DUMB ANIMALS are of-
fered for clear' outstanding photo-
graphs of wild or domestic animals
and birds.

The contest is open to all. either
professional or amateur, but entries
will be accepted only from those who
have taken the photographs.

PRIZES
'First Prize . . . . . . . . .$25.oo
Second Prize ...... I5.00
Third Prize . . . . . . . . 5.00
Ten $3.00 prizes

Ten $2.00 prizes

Write to Contest Editor. I80 Long-
wood Ave.I Boston I5l Mass.. for
further details.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

.1,—

V...__..., 3:, —— ,

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 112

 

 

 

Kindness Week

WITH our report of Be Kind to Ani-
mals Week activities this year—one
of the most successful in the thirty years
of its celebration—we venture to look
back at the small beginnings of this festi-
val f-or the beneﬁt of those who may not
remember or know of its inception.
Strangely enough, the suggestion for
Kindness Week came from a man of no
connection with the humane movement.
That man was Henry F. Lewith, retired
linotype operator in Charleston, South
Carolina. A modest man was Mr. LeW1th,
yet a persistent one. He was imbued
with an idea and was indefatigable in
his efforts to bring it to pass. he wrote
long, illegible letters to the leaders in
the humane ﬁeld, of whom he had heard,
but it was not until he wrote to our Pres-
ident, Dr. Francis H. Rowley, that seri-
ous attention was given the proposal.
At length, after much correspondence,
Dr. Rowley initiated the introduction of
a Be Kind to Animals Week resolution
at the annual meeting of The American
Humane Association, at Atlantic City, 1n

1914. The resolution was adopted and it

was thus that Be Kind to Animals Week
came into being.

Since that time Kindness Week has
reached the full stature of manhood.
Each year sees an increased zeal in its
celebration, not only by animal protec-
tion societies, but by public ofﬁcials, radio
stations, newspapers, sch-001s and animal
lovers in all walks of life.

43

Animals and Vacations

T is not too early in the season to make
our annual plea for more considera-
tion of pets during vacation times.

This year, as usual, will occur the an—
nual exodus of vacation-bound workers
to seashore and mountainside. With
many of these will go the family pet,
but, as is too often the case, some will be
left behind to fend for themselves. In
other cases, pets will be adopted at the
summer homes and abandoned at the
end of the season.

Both of these practices result in down-
right cruelty and we ask all pet owners
to make proper provision for their ani-
mals. If pets must be left at home, see
that they will be properly cared for by
friends or at kennels. If those newly
adopted ones cannot be brought back to
the city at the end of the vacation, ar-

EDITORIALS

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

June 1944

 

 

 

range with the nearest humane society
or veterinarian for humane disposal.
For the many thousands who visit
Cape Cod each year, we call attention to
our Shelter at Hyannis, State Road, Route
28, Centerville. Our agent in charge will
welcome your visit and will be glad to
advise you about your pet problems.

@

Veterinarian Honored

B have recently received word that

Major Harry H. Robertson, for-
merly a member of the veterinary staff
of our Angell Mem-orial'Animal Hospital,
and now connected with the Veterinary
Corps of the United States Army, has
been awarded the Legion of Merit by
General Eisenhower. This is the. high-
est award ever given a no‘ncombatant
ofﬁcer and it gives us great satisfaction
in the thought that perhaps, at least in
a small way, Major Robertson’s experi—
ence at the Hospital may have helped to
make this honor possible.

The citation accompanying the award
read as follows:

“By direction of the President, under
the provision of AR, No. 600-45, 22 Sep-
tember, 1943, the Legion of Merit is
awarded to the following:

“Captain Harry J. Robertson, Veter-
inary Corps, U. S. Army, for exception—
ally meritorious conduct in the perform-
ance of outstanding services while serv-
ing as a veterinary ofﬁcer in Iceland base
command from the third of March, 1942,
to the thirty—ﬁrst of August, 1943. In
addition to his military duties, Captain
Robertson conducted extensive tests and
research in two diseases of domestic ani-
mals then prevalent in Iceland, adminis-
tered preventive inoculations to large
numbers of hogs, and advised and as-
sisted Icelandic farmers in many ways.
As a result of his efforts, the farmers in
Iceland have been greatly beneﬁted and
the internal economy of the country has
been materially improved, thereby en-
hancing the already friendly relationship
between Iceland and the United States.

(Signed) Eisenhower.”

Since promoted to Major, Dr. Robert-
son was graduated from the School of
Veterinary Medicine, University of Penn-
sylvania, in 1939. He accepted a reserve
commission in the Veterinary Corps in
June of that year, and was called to ac-
tive duty early in 1941, while in the
employ of the Angell Memorial Hospital.

Our Cover

HIS month our cover picture shows

a strange friendship between a mon-
key and a kitten. Here is how it all
happened.

When “Chico,” pet monkey of little
Joan Marie Dike, of Boston, was rushed
to the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital,
several weeks ago suffering from two
broken arms and legs as a result of a
fall, he immediately struck up an ac-
quaintanceship with a frisky pussy, a
patient in a neighboring cage.

Kitty promptly accepted the monkey’s
invitation to share his quarters and they
have been real pals ever since. While
Chico’s case was declared almost hopeless
when he arrived at the Hospital for
treatment, he is now well on the way to
recovery and will soon be able to take up
where he left off in the world of “mon-
key shines.”

His pretty little owner is shown treat-
ing him to a rare feast, in the form of a
banana, while his feline companion busies
herself with a tasty tidbit. The monkey
is a South American Capuchin Hooktail
and has been the pet of Joan Marie for
four years.

 

 

PHOTO CONTEST

In a search for "story-telling pic-
tures." we are announcing our annual
photographic contest to end June 30.
I944.

Cash prizes amounting to $95 and
ten additional prizes at subscriptions
to OUR DUMB ANIMALS are ot-
tered for clear. outstanding photo-
graphs ot wild or domestic animals
and birds.

The contest is open to all' either
professional or amateur. but entries
will be accepted only from those who
have taken the photographs.

PRIZES

First Prize . . . . . . . . .$25.-00
Second Prize ...... I5.00
Third Prize . . . . . . . . 5.00
Ten $3.00 prizes
Ten $2.00 prizes

Write to Contest Editor. I80 Long-
wood Ave.. Boston I5. Mass.. for
Further details.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

‘1'

 

 

7‘ 9
sNCIRcLee A’5 (34.06

Editor — WILLIAM A. SWALLOW
Assistant Editor — WILLIAM M. MORRILL

sﬁr

 

 

IMPORTANT!
OUR MAIL ADDRESS

No mail whatsoever should be sent
to us at 46 Central Street. Nor-
woodl Massachusetts. This address is
simply one which we must maintain
in compliance with Post Office reg-
ulations.

Mail so addressed is sometimes
delayed a matter of weeks before we
receive it. ‘

 

CORRECT ADDRESS

We ask your cooperation in this
matter. It will help us to serve you
more promptly if you will use our
correct address.

At the bottom of this column you
will ﬁnd the address to which all com-\
munications should be sent.

Please use it now and in all future
correspondence.

 

 

 

 

 

 

SUBSCRIPTION RATES

One dollar per year. Postage free to any part of
the world.

All dollar subscriptions sent direct to the office
entitle the sender to membership in either of our
two Societies.

MANUSCRIPTS relating to animals. particularly
prose articles of about 300 words. are solicited.
We do not wish to consider prose manuscripts
longer than 500 words nor verse in excess of twenty-
four lines. The shorter the better. All manuscripts
should be typewritten and an addressed envelope
with full return postage enclosed with each offering.

Published monthly by The Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals. Publica-
tion ofﬁce. 46 Central Street. Norwood. Massachu-
setts. Entered as second-class matter. June 29.
I9I7. at the Post Ofﬁce at Norwood. Mass.. under
the Act of March 3. I879. Acceptance for mailing
at special rate of postage provided for in section

IIO3. Act of October 3. I9I7. authorized. July
I3. I9I9.

Address all communications to Editorial Office.
I80 Longwood Avenue. Boston I5. Mass.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Founded by Geo. T. Angell. |868
VOLUME 77—No. 5

U. S. Trade Mark Registered
MAY. I944

PUBLISHED BY
THE MASSACHUSETTS SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF_ CRUELTY TO ANIMALS
AND
THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY

Officers

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEYI President
ERIC H. HANSEN. Executive Vice-President
ALBERT A. POLLARD. Treasurer
WILLIAM A. SWALLOW. Secretary
PEABODY. BROWN. ROWLEY & STOREY. Counsel

it

Trustees of Permanent Funds

JOHN R. MACOMBER. Chairman of the Board. First Boston Corporation

CHARLES G. BANCROFT. Vice-President and Chairman Finance Committee.
United Shoe Machinery Corporation

CHARLES E. SPENCER. JR.. President. First National Bank of Boston

Massachusetts 5. P. C. A.
JOSEPH MOONEY, Treasurer’s Assistant

Prosecuting Officers in Boston
Telephone (Complaints, Ambulances) Longwood 6100

L. WILLARD WALKER, Chief Officer

HARRY L. ALLEN HOWARD WILLAND
HARVEY R. FULLER J. ROBERT SMITH

County Prosecuting Officers
HERMAN N. DEAN, Boston Middlesex and Norfolk
FRED T. VICKERS, Wenham Eastern Essex
WILLIAM W. HASWELL, Methuen
JOSEPH E. HASWELL, Methuen

FRED F. HALL, Springfield
Hampden, Hampshire and Franklin

HARRY C. SMITH, Worcester Worcester
CHARLES E. BROWN, Attleboro, Bristol and Plymouth

HAROLD G. ANDREWS, Hyannis
Barnstable, Dukes and Nantucket

T. KING HASWELL, Pittsfield Berkshire

Western Essex
Western Essex

Rest Farm for Horses and Small Animal Shelter,
Methuen

W. W. HASWELL, Superintendent

Other Small Animal Shelters of M. S. P. C. A.

Boston, 180 Longwood Avenue
Springfield. 53—57 Bliss Street

Pittsfield, 224 Cheshire Road

Attleboro, 3 Commonwealth Avenue
Hyannis, State Road, Rte. 28, Centerville
Wenham, Cherry Street

Branches and Auxiliaries

Northampton Branch of Mass. 5. P. C. A.—PROF.
P. R. LIEDER, Pres.; MISS ELIZABETH A. FOSTER,
reas.

Holyoke Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.——AARON M.
BAGG, Pres.; BROOKS WHITE, Treas.

Springfield Branch Auxiliary—MRS. ROBERT R.
MILLER, Pres.; MRS. H. W. STOCKBOWER, Treas.

Winchester Branch Auxiliary—MISS GLADYS FOLTS,
Vice—Pres.; MRS. DANIEL C. DENNETT, Treas.

Boston Work Committee of Mass. 5. P. C. A.—
MRS. GEORGE D. COLPAS, Chairman.

American Humane Education Society

Field Workers of the Society
Mrs. Alice L. Park, Palo Alto, California
Mrs. James D. Burton, Ha-rriman, Tennessee
Mrs. Florida L. Byrne, Tacoma, Washington
Mrs. Katherine Weathersbee, Atlanta, Georgia
Rev. Dr. F. Rivers Barnwell, Fort Worth, Texas
Rev. John W. Lemon, Ark, Virginia
Miss Lucia F. Gilbert, Boston, Massachusetts
Rev. R. E. Griffith, De Land, Florida

Field Representative
Dr. Wm. F. H. Wentze-l, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

Foreign Corresponding Representatives

E. J. H. Escobar ...................... Colombia
Luis Pareja Cornejo .................... Ecuador
Leonard T. Hawksley ................... Italy

S. C. Batra ........................... India
Mrs. Marie C. E. Houghton .............. Madeira
Dr. A. T. lshkanian ................... Mexico
Mrs. Alice W. Manning ................. Turkey

is

Angell Memorial Animal Hospital
and Dispensary for Animals

I80 Longwood Avenue—Telephone Longwood 6100

Veterinarians

E. F. SCHROEDER, D.V.M., Chief of Staff
*G. B. SCHNELLE, V.M.D., Asst. Chief
R. H. SCHNEIDER, V.M.D.

T. O. MUNSON, V.M.D.

C. L. BLAKELY, V.M.D.

*M S. ARLEIN, D.V.M.

*L. H. SCAMMAN, D.V.M.
*W. A. WILCOX, D.V.M.
N. L. GREINER, D.V.M.

H. B. SIEGLE, D.V.M.

FRED KEEFE, V.S., B.V.S.

HARRY L. ALLEN, Superintendent

Springfield Branch
Telephone 4-7355
53-57 Bliss Street, Springfield, Mass.

Veterinarians

A. R. EVANS, V.M.D. H. L. SMEAD, D.V.M.
*R. L. LEIGHTON, V.M.D.
H. J. KOPP, V.M.D.

*On leave of absence— military service

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 11!;

Mutt and Jeff

l50-pound Saint Bernard and a one-

pound toy Pomeranian provided a
picture of rare contrast at the Spring-
ﬁeld branch of our Hospital recently. In-
mates of the Hospital, this odd pair
struck up a real friendship.

The Saint Bernard was a stray, picked
up by the Society’s ambulance in Chico-
pee, and brought to the shelter until the
owner should be identiﬁed. The toy
Pomeranian was turned over to the Hos-
pital by the Springﬁeld Police Depart-
ment, with the request that it be held
until further orders from the police. The
dog’s owner, in custody of the police, is
devoted to his pet and asked that it be
sheltered until he could claim it.

43

Dogs in Raids
NE of the National Canine Defence
League’s branches in the London
area is housing a number of dogs that
have had more than one narrow escape.
“Betty,” whose puppies were due, was
bombed out of her home and brought to
the N. C. D. L. Rest Centre the following
day. On the same night there were
bombs nearby and the next day a heavy
bomb brought down the ceiling of her
kennel. Two hours later Betty’s seven
puppies arrived and are all doing well.
An Alsatian had the back of his home
bombed on a Tuesday night and the fam-
ily and dog transferred their quarters to
the front which was more or less intact.
On Wednesday night the front was de-
stroyed and on Thursday morning the
dog was brought to the Centre. That
night his kennel was bombed. He was
unhurt but his temper was frayed. Sev-
eral of the doggy inmates of the Centre
have been bombed out of ,their homes
three times. The view of pet owners is
that dogs are not standing the raids as
well as cats.

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

His Brother’s Keeper

EEPERS,” 1M2-year-old German shep-

herd, might not have been able to
read the name on the hospital door, but
he knew his brother, “Hyland,” was in
one of them. J eepers, by the way, is a
great-great-grandson of the famed “Rin—
Tin-Tin.”

J eepers and Hyland had been conﬁned
in a Wilmette, Illinois, animal hospital,
but when Jeepers was released, Hyland
stayed on for further treatment. How—
ever, J eepers’ return home was of short
duration.

Soon he ran away. After a diligent
search mad-e by his owner, Otto Y. Schner-
ing, president of the Curtiss Candy Com-
pany, he was found sitting patiently on
the front steps of the Libertyville Hos-
pital. Jeepers, his master believe-s, sat
waiting for Hyland to come out.

4%

Quite Distinguished

'OLF is an Elk. He is a German

shepherd with a lifetime member-
ship in the Knoxville, Tennessee, Elk’s
Club, and said to be the only dog in the
United States that is permitted to enter
an Elk’s home. On his collar Wolf wears
his membership disc, and will ﬁght any-
one who attempts to remove it.

This, however, is not his only distinc-
tion. If he desires, Wolf can and often
does ride any taxi in town. Known to
all cab drivers, he is known to trot a
block or two in search of a cab if one
isn’t available nearby. Any cabbie in
Knoxville will open his taxi door to Wolf
and take the animal home, for he is
aware that Wolf’s owner, V. L. Nichol-
son, will pay the fare when Wolf arrives.

—Randolph M acFa/rlan

June 1 91,1;

Animal
Protection
in

 

Syria

E take pleasure in introducing Mr.

N. B. Matta, of the Oriental Hu-
mane Education Association, in Syria.
Mr. Matta sends us frequent and inter-
esting reports of his work in animal pro-
tection and humane education.

In his latest letter, Mr. Matta reported
that he made a speaking tour through a
nearby district. In the city of Rachaya,
he held four meetings at the home of
a government oﬂ‘icial. At these gather-
ings, before large audiences, he dis-
coursed at length on the subject of ani-
mals and the reasons why they should
be treated with kindness. Upon leaving
Rachaya, Mr. Matta visited a number of
villages, lecturing along his route.

It is interesting to note from the re-
port that Arabs in Palestine are taking
the matter of owning and raising animals
very seriously. The war has taught them
the importance of these creatures.

&
Old Tabhy’s WiSh

I’m not asking for luxury,
Or a lot of attention,

Or any of the little things
Too numerous to mention.

But I'd like to have a mistress

With a heart that understands,

A voice of moderate tempo

And two gentle loving hands.
—RUTH FINNIGAN

 

HOLYOKE MUSEUM OBSERVES "ROWLEY DAY"

Boys and girls at the Holyoke Museum gathered to celebrate "Rowley Day" on April 27.

during Kindness Week. The attendance on that day was 334 and over the whole

Week. |.4|9. The Hon. Henry J. Toeptert. Mayor of Holyokel and Mr. Burlingham

Schurr. naturalist and Museum directorl took part in the ceremonies. Booksl pennants

and other trophies were presented to children who merited awards for their particular
interest in kindness to animals.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

OUR DUMB

 

Acme Photo

FAITHFUL MASCOT STANDS BY

"Boots." a Dalmatian tire dog. nuzzles anxiously at the cap of one of his masters. Lt.
Herbert H. Ludemann. of the New York City Fire Department. as another fireman

revives his buddy. who was felled by smoke at a three-alarm fire.

43

Unique Animals of Australia

USTRALIA is the home of some un-

vusual animals and among them is
an amusing little creature called the
koala. It looks much like a teddy bear,
with its soft gray fur and bright dark
eyes, but it is not a bear. By means of
its long strong claws it climbs the euca-
lyptus trees, on the leaves of which it
feeds and drinks, for it does not drink
water. It carries its young in a pouch,
and when the little fellow is older he
rides on his mother’s back.

One of the most curious animals is the
platypus, which seems to be a mixture
of several animals. It can live either on
land or water. It has the fur of a seal,
the bill of a duck, and is web-footed. It
has short legs with ﬁve webbed toes on
each foot, and the male has a horny spur
on his heels. Unlike the duck, it has
nostrils at the extreme end of its bill.
Although clumsy on land, it is a ﬁne
swimmer, and snails and shell ﬁsh com-
pose its food. It lays eggs like a turtle,
but carries its young in a pouch and
suckles them.

A very useful animal is the dugong, a
sea cow weighing about six hundred
pounds. It carries its young under its
ﬁn and feeds it at the breast. It is
harpooned like a whale and its ﬂesh
affords good meat. Its hide is made into
leather and its oil can be used as a sub-
stitute for cod liver oil. It is found in
the ocean along the Australian coast.

—Alice Keatley

Statement

I like dogs.
Big ones, filled with dignity—
Wagging solemn tails at me:
Scampering, playful ones-—
Mischievous and full of fun,-
Pups of proudest pedigree—
Mutts of assorted ancestry.
For loyalty, lite-long and true—
For trust—and real devotion, too—-
I like dogs.

—-Winnitred J. Mott

ANIMALS

November 1944

Whippoorwill, a Prophet

THERE are many hits of folklore that
attribute many birds with the power
of seeing into the future and even our
common whippoorwill who is not very
bright as birds go is looked on as a
prophet in some corners of the land. In
some parts of New England it is still said
in a joking way that one calling near a
house portends a death there but this
omen is not taken seriously by anyone.

It is different in the Amazon region
of South America which has a somewhat
similar bird. If this is heard anywhere
near an Indian or Negro hut, it is ﬁrmly
believed that the place will be haunted
by evil fortune from that night on.

According to the Omahas and other
Sioux Indians this bird could tell anyone
whether or not they were likely to die
soon. When a bird started calling near
by, one answered it with a “No.” Then
if the bird stopped at once, the enquirer
would soon die, but if the bird kept on
calling, as it usually did, then he or she
would continue to live for a long time.

Did you ever want to know how long
it would be before you were married?
The folks in the southern Alleghenies
had a saying that this bird could tell you.
Just count the number of times its call
was repeated in succession. Each call
represented one year. But then one
wonders just how any listener could
know whether the bird was calling for
him or for someone in the next cabin.
And then, too, naturalists report that this
bird will sometimes call several hundred
times without a pause, which one imag-
ines would be very discouraging to any
old maid or bachelor.

——John H. Spicer

4%

Please remember the Massachusetts
S. P. C. A. when making your will.

 

 

      

Vt?
Bu! , ‘
// Segtrnqnn ‘\ [14$

“out

\\\//</\ 3

x

l.
\‘l

.\
“l;
l.

l
. Mil/ll.

l

\

<

<\\

\\

 

When little birds sit on a branch

And say their good-night “peep,"
They do not fall from off their perch,

When they have gone to sleep.

Rime
i "X if
lr....//lilli\ .H/

dAl Sketch by Bill Sagermann

Why Birds Sleep without Falling

Odd Facts

in

By CARROLL VAN COURT

The muscles in their tiny toes
Close tight when they sit down;
And hold them safe on any tree,
In country or in town.

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

September 1944

 

 

Dr. Fred Keefe and Nurse Inez Holmes. of

the Hospital staff. examine Jrhe hookl line

and sinker which Dr. Keefe recen’rly re-

moved from the stomach of a black and

white kiHen called "Barbara." masco’r of a
Naval pa’rrol boa’r.

@
Hook, Line and Sinker

NE of the most unusual cases in the
history of the Angell Memorial
Animal Hospital was disclosed recently
when Hospital authorities unfolded the
remarkable story of “Barbara,” six-
month-old kitten, who was rushed to the
Hospital after having swallowed a hook,
line and sinker.

It seems that during a few leisure
moments, the crew of a Naval patrol boat
recently decided to go ﬁshing from the
deck when, all too soon, the signal was
soundedjto report to their stations. And
—herein lies the sad tale—for that’s
Where Barbara entered the scene. In
their haste, the boys had left on deck the
ﬁshing tackle, with lobster bait attached.
Tempted, as all cats are bound to be in
such a predicament, the pet feline sniffed
the bait gloatingly, and gulped it down,
with hook, line and sinker.

Noticing later that the cat seemed to
be acting a bit strangely, as if it were
not too comfortable, Bos’n’s Mate John
Howard, J r., rushed the pet to the Angell
Memorial Animal Hospital, where, after
X-rays revealed the position of the for-
eign matter, an emergency operation was
immediately performed by Dr. Fred
Keefe. Hook, line and sinker were re-
moved and Barbara, who had a rapid and
‘uneventful recovery, returned to her
post aboard ship in no time,—ready to
enjoy the sea breezes once more—to say
nothing of the pleasure she displayed at
being able to join her fellow shipmates
again.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

We Serve

LEVER manipulation on the part of

Mr. Howard Willand, a prosecuting
ofﬁcer of the Massachusetts Society for
the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals,
was responsible for saving the life of a
stray, maltese cat whose head had become
lodged in a tall, empty salmon can in
the basement of a three-family house in
Mattapan.

It all happened as a result of a tele-
phone call received at Society head-
quarters from Mrs. Max Dreyfus. Mrs.
Dreyfus discovered the serious predica—
ment of the cat which she found in the
basement of her home and, after repeated,
unsuccessful efforts to release it, ﬁnally
telephoned the M. S. P. C. A. for help.

Mr. Willand quickly rushed to the scene
and, after considerable difﬁculty, man-

Boston Globe Photo

Officer Howard Willand with cat and can
from which he rescued Jrhe animal.

aged to free the animal with the aid of
large shears with which he had to slit
the can in various places, being ex-
tremely careful not to injure the cat’s
ears, so tightly were they wedged in the
receptacle.

“Tabby,” who is described as a full—
grown maltese, four or ﬁve years of age,
rested fairly comfortably at the Society’s
Angell Memorial Animal Hospital, al-
though suffering from minor cuts and
bruises about the head and neck.

Commenting on the plight of the un-
fortunate feline, authorities of the So-
ciety stated that similar recurrences
could be avoided if householders heeded
the plea of the government to ﬂatten all
tin cans just as soon as they had been
emptied of their contents, and to turn
them over to the scrap drive, thereby con—
tributing to the war effort.

.during the entire service.

 

Page 1’75

Canine Church Attendant
By EVA WILLES WANGSGAARD

ELTA, Utah, has a church-going dog

that hasn’t missed a session since

he was a ﬂuffy-haired puppy. His name

is “Bruce.” He attends, more faithfully

than any of his human rivals, all church

services, auxiliary meetings, funerals,
and choir practices.

His conduct is a model that any child
might proﬁtably follow. He enters
silently, head bowed, takes his place with
no self-consciousness, and makes no sound
With the
“Amen” of the benediction, he rises
quietly and moves softly toward the door.

The antics of his dog fellow-s never
tempt him from his “duties” on Sunday
mornings or at any other time when
church services are to be enjoyed. He
disdains all temptations to romp, bark at
cars, or chase cats at church time. Head
erect, he directs his footsteps toward the
chapel, let other dogs do as they may.

He prefers to be accompanied by mem-
bers of the family and at church time
makes his wishes‘known in the usual dog
way of looking solemn-eyed and hopeful,
but if the members are slack, he may
give a snort of disappointment but he
never gives up his attendance for such
minor annoyances.

Once Bruce had a grave decision to
make. His master, John E. Dorious,
moved to Salt Lake City. Should he go
with his beloved master and give up his
beloved church? The church won. Bruce
stayed in Delta, making his home with
whomever would take him in.

 

HERE'S ONE FOR YOU. "MIKE!"

LiHle fen-year-old Johnnie Langdon. Of
Brookline. brings "Mike." convalescing at
the Hospital. a huge ice cream cone.

 

 

.m-. .» .ﬁ'i'iiM'WM-VW

   

'. ' :»:e:¢<-.‘:m:-m->,vm>.->:-m>;e;v.~:m

 

 

 

 

 




an

 

February 1941;

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

I'Nora'I tries to arouse Mitchell by tugging on his arm.

Fifty Cents9 Worth

IFTY CENTS was all the dog cost

when a Coast Guardsman at the

Oregon Inlet Station on the North
Carolina coast bought her, but the eight-
months—old dog dramatically showed her
true worth when she saved a Coast
Guardsman from probable death.

The Coast Guardsman who owes so
much to the dog is Evans E. Mitchell,
eighteen-year-old apprentice seaman,
Chicago, Ill.

It was some weeks ago that Nora, the
dog, scratched on the door of the Coast
Guard station around midnight. In her
mouth was the white hat of Mitchell bear-
ing the regulation name stamp. As the
dog frantically made known that she
wanted them to follow, Chief Boatswain’s
Mate Thomas J. Harris hurriedly dressed.

The dog hastened on ahead of the
chief and approached Earl L. Miller, sea-
man ﬁrst class, who was on patrol. He
followed the dog and found Mitchell, face
down in the sand, unconscious.

While Miller tried to revive Mitchell,
Nora tugged on the latter’s arm in an un-
successful attempt to arouse him. When
the chief arrived, the limp body was car-
ried back to the station where ﬁrst aid
was given. The next day, Mitchell was
taken to the Marine Hospital in Norfolk
where he spent a month recovering.

“Mitchell would have frozen to death,”
Chief Harris said, “if the dog hadn’t
found him, because he was lying in an

out of the way spot on the beach, the
night was pitch black and very cold.”

Nora visited Mitchell in the hospital
and was solicitous of his welfare, chum—
ming around with him more than with
the other men. Now that Mitchell is
entirely recovered, however, she has re-
verted to her policy of playing no fa-
vorites.

The history of the dog’s life at the sta—
tion goes back over half a year, when a
former seaman at the station bought
Nora from a nearby family. Raised from
a pup by the men at the station, she be-
came attached to all, though not picking
any favorites.

As she grew older, Nora started walk-
ing with the beach patrolmen and,
though she lacked training in this work,
she soon proved herself as capable as the
professionally trained dogs.

Nora was quick to investigate noises
or anything out of the ordinary and never
left the man she started out with, re-
gardless of how many other patrolmen
she met on the lonely beach.

When she returned to the station from
her ﬁrst patrol, she would immediately
go out on the second. This went on for
some time until Nora grew wise that
she was doing double night patrols, while
the men did one. So, deciding in her
canine mind, that this was extra duty,
she stopped making the second patrol and
now returns to the station to “sack in.”

Page 35

 

Visiting the patient.

 

The hat told the story.

Her owner was ﬁnally transferred and
wanted to take the dog with him, but
the crew of the station had become so at-
tached to her that they chipped in ﬁfty
cents each and bought Nora.

 

Photos “through the courtesy of the
United States Coast Guard.

4%

The chimney swift has been clocked
at more than a hundred miles an hour.
Excepting the duck hawk, he is the
swiftest bird that ﬂies. And the unique
thing about this Speedster is that his
wings beat alternately rather than in
unison. It has been estimated that in-
dividuals may cover a thousand miles in
a single day in search of food.

 




 

From the

PRESIDENT’S DESK

 

 

T was Déschanel, once president of the
French Republic, who said in connec-
tion with Gambetta, “Yes, it is with the
heart great things are done. The older
we get, the more inclined we are to put
goodness ﬁrst, then common sense, then
talent, and intellect last of all.”

@

HE performing animal act is not new.
Pliny tells of an elephant made to
walk on the tight rope at the spectacles
given by Germanicus at the beginning
of the. Christian era. The same writer
describes an act where four elephants
walked upon parallel ropes and carried
between them a litter supporting a ﬁfth,
who feigned sickness.

ﬂ

SN’T it about time for the sun to go

down upon the day of hate? Dbes
Christianity mean anything to us, or
may we scorn its teachings and still
profess it? Why not be honest with
ourselves and if we insist on hating call
ourselves pagans?

@

WAS it through the law of compensa-

tion that it came about that
Emanuel Nobel, the inventor of dynamite
and submarines, should give to the world
a son, Alfred Nobel, whom the world
knows as the giver of the celebrated
Peace Prize?

1%

E sometimes wonder how Our Dumb
Animals would strike our readers
if we were to mail them one issue com-
posed only of articles and letters sent us
for publication. Few things are more
difﬁcult than to select out of a multitude
of contributions the few for which there
is room.
43

THERE are a few people deeply inter—

ested in humane work to whom appar-
ently it has never occurred that there
are even worse sins than those of cruelty
to animals.

Executing Your Own Will
An Annuity Plan

ACH of our two Societies will receive
gifts, large or small, entering into
a written obligation binding the Society
safely to invest the same and to pay the
donor for life a reasonable rate of
interest, or an annuity for an amount
agreed upon. The rate of interest or
amount of annuity will necessarily depend
upon the age of the donor.

The wide ﬁnancial experience and high
standing of the trustees, John R. Ma-
comber, Chairman, First Boston Cor-
poration, Charles G. Bancroft, Vice-Presi-
dent and Chairman, Finance Committee,
United Shoe Machinery Corporation, and
Charles E. Spencer, J r., President, First
National Bank of Boston, to whom are
entrusted the care and management of
our invested funds, are a guarantee of
the security of such an investment.

Persons of comparatively small means
may by this arrangement obtain a better
income for life than could be had with
equal safety by the usual methods of in-
vestment, while avoiding the risks and
waste of a will contest and ultimately
promoting the cause of the dumb animals.

The Societies solicit correspondence
upon this subject, and will be glad to
furnish all further details.

@

A Famous Character

HO has not heard of Horace Wal—

pole, called the “Prince Charming
of Correspondents?” C. Edgar Thomas in
the Animal World, writing of Walpole’s
great fondness for animals, gives this
amusing anecdote in Walpole’s own
words: “I met a rough ofﬁcer at his
house (a Mr. Hawkins), t’other day, who
said he knew such a person was turning
Methodist; for, in the middle of con—
versation, he rose and opened the window
to let out a moth. I told him I did not
know the Methodists had any principle
so good, and that I who am not on the
point of becoming one, always did so, too.”

Expert Testimony
THE following men were experts in
this ﬁeld of knowledge:

George Washington: “My ﬁrst wish is
to see this plague of mankind (war)
banished from the earth.”

U. S. Grant: “There never was a time
when some way could not be found to
prevent the drawing of the sword.”

Gen. John F. O’Ryan: “I would be a
traitor to my country if I did not do
everything in my power to abolish war.”

:13

Picking Geese

HE practice of forcibly picking

feathers from a live goose must be a
very painful one for the goose. Yet it is
one indulged in almost everywhere. At
certain seasons of the year, geese are
picked and the feathers used in feather
beds and pillows. The geese either should
never be picked, or they should be killed
before picking.

@

Our “Hall of Fame”

E have handsomely framed in our

Memorial Hall the names of all
those who, since the foundation of our
two Societies, ‘have kindly remembered
them in their wills. Wherever we have
been able to obtain the portraits or photo-
graphs of these generous friends we have
done so, and these also hang upon the
walls of our “Hall of Fame.”

:23

dear old lady in Vermont was
much concerned by the contents of a
letter she had received from her sister.
“Listen to this, Henry,” she said to
her husband. “I call it nothing short of
cruelty.”
“What’s the matter?” asked Henry.
“In this letter,” resumed the old lady,
“Abigail tells me she gets help in raisin’
her children from a mother’s club. I do
believe in a slipper sometimes, an’ a good
birchin’ don’t do a child any harm, but I
never in all my life used a club on any
of my offspring.” —Kz'nd Words

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 116

 

A Dog’s Prayer
By BURLINGHAM SCHURR

E was a real pal, with a heart as
true as the Creator ever permitted
to beat in a dog.

Oh, yes, this pal of mine was a dog.
Just a dog. And like most dogs he en-
joyed living. He, was ever ready to use
his tail in a manner which left no room
for doubt that he was perfectly con-
tented with life. His big, beautiful,
brown eyes were most expressive, and he
could look into the eyes of his human
superiors with a gaze which told better
than words that his wagging tail beat
in perfect unison with a true heart.

Day after day we went into ﬁeld and
wood and roamed at will. He loved life in
the open, just as I did and we made the
most of it. On our return home after a
day aﬁeld we were generally tired and
ready to rest. I usually sat in a large
easy chair and my good friend would
curl up on a rug close by. His eyes would
close and he would be dead to the world,
as it were. As long as I sat quietly in my
chair all was well with him, but if I
arose, an eye would quickly open and he
was ready to come at a word from me.

And then, one day, he was struck by a
large truck. I recognized the wail of
anguish and in a moment I was out of
the house and bending over his bleeding
and crushed form. I knew he could live
but a short while.

With those wonderful eyes he spoke to
me in words which could not be misun-
derstood and a moment later, when I
looked at his still body, my lips quivered,
and ’though some may judge me foolish
and weak, I bowed my head in reverent
farewell.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

ANIMAL AND

Raymond Clapper, whose untimely
death was announced early in February,
said in one of his last columns that this
is a dog’s war. He pointed out that ani-
mals were receiving the same grade of
medical attention accorded to humans
injured.

The British government has now
mobilized all cats to serve as protectors
of the food supply from the gnawings
of rodents. Pet shops have been con-
verted into induction stations, where
ﬁtness tests are given and all felines not
4F are offered special courses in their
traditional occupation. Once "boot”
training is completed the tabbies are
assigned to one of the hundreds of food
depots which dot the country. They
are paid threepence (about six cents)
a day by the Ministry of Supply.

Five of Uncle Sam’s best income tax
paying customers never say a word about
form 1040A. "Boots,” the shepherd
dog, earns a thousand per week. "Pete”
Penguin carries home three hundred
green ﬁsh each seven days. "Raﬂles,” the
talking Mynah-bird, dumps ﬁve hundred
dollars into the lap of "Mrs. M-b” every
Saturday night. "Cheetah,” who warns
Tarzan of any approaching harm, refuses
to divulge his salary, but it is very
satisfying to Mr. Morganthau around
March 15. Finally, the young lady can-
ine who portrays "Daisy” in the Blondie
movie sketches, and who has won "Bos-
cars” (dog version of "Oscars”) several
years running, has to manage to exist
on only twenty-ﬁve thousand pieces of
folding money per annum. Oh, for a
“dog’s life.”

A twenty-seven-year-old German
military pigeon, captured during World
War I, is the only remaining war pris-
oner held by the United States from the
ﬁrst War.

A staﬂ sergeant in the wilderness of
southern China writes that an all mon-
key movie entitled "Monkey Doodle
Dandy” brought great joy to the hearts
of this movie-hungry group.

Not long ago, a codﬁsh was found
with the text of a very valuable re-
ligious treatise nestled in its stomach.
Cambridge authorities identiﬁed the
manuscript as one written by John
Firth, who was executed in 1553, for
his religious Views. In republishing the
volume, they gave it the title "Vox
Piscis” or "Voice of the Fish.”

—]ack Pearson

June 1941;

“Buffalo” Bill

HEY called him “Buffalo Bill”——but
William F. Cody never killed a buf-
falo in his life!

Cody earned the misnomer of “Buf-
falo Bill” while employed by the Kansas
Paciﬁc railway to furnish meat for its
laborers. But the game he hunted were
not buffaloes. They were bis-on.

The true buffalo is of Asiatic origin
and habitat, and belongs to the same
family as the ox. It has the common
bovine characteristics; in fact, it may be
fairly stated that the buffalo is just a
huge, clumsy ox.

The common or Asiatic buffalo has
beautifully twisted horns. The hair is
short and scant, almost bristly, nearly
black in color, and it is slightly longer
on head and shoulders and the front of
the neck. The bare, brown, polished hide
is the most striking feature of this ani-
mal. The buffalo is about seven feet long
and strands about four feet high at the
shoulder. When it walks or runs it
characteristically projects its muzzle for-
ward. It is a very powerful animal——
much more so than the ox—and is cap—
able of dragging or carrying a far heav-
ier load.

Bison are somewhat different, having
a relatively larger head, a cone—shaped
hump between their shoulders, a shaggy
mane, and short, black, tapering horns.
The European relatives of the American
“buffalo,” or bison, are called aurochs.
The bison that Cody downed to the num-
ber of ﬁve thousand in a single season has
ﬁfteen ribs on each side; its European
cousin has fourteen; and the common
domesticated ox, thirteen. Literally mil-
lions of bison once roamed about the
plains of the old West in great herds.
Today they are extinct, except for a small
herd in the Yellowstone National Park,
and in zoological collections.

They called him “Buffalo Bill,” but a
more appropriate nickname would have
been “Bison Bill.”

—Max Meredith

 

 

OVER THE AIR

A weekly radio program devoted to ani-
mals may be heard each Tuesday afternoon
at |:|5 over Springﬁeld radio station WSPR
—|27O on your radio dial. This program
is presented by Charlene B. Kibbe and
sponsored by i the Massachusetts Society
tor the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Programs will be as follows:
June 6—"Animals in the News."

June l3—"Emergency Care and Treat-
ment of Animals."

June 20—"True Dog Stories."

June 27—"Animals in General."

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




J une 1 944

 

Sir Robert Gower. K. C. V. 0.. M.-P.

ever to have been given in celebration

of Kindness Week, our Societies, this
year, made an outstanding contribution
to the cause. Through the courtesy of
Station WBZ, an exchange of experiences
was arranged between our President, Dr.
Francis H. Rowley, and Sir Robert
Gower, K. C. V. 0., M. P., Chairman of
the Royal S. P. C. A., London.

The latter’s message contained not
only his best wishes for the success of
the celebration, but also a concise report
of his Society’s efforts in helping animals
under the stress of war conditions. Said
Sir Robert Gower:

“I am thankful to say that our Society
has made considerable plans since the
war. We have had to face new problems,
not the least of which has concerned the
feeding of animals in these days of short—
age ‘and the risks during air raids.

“Since 1939, we have rescued more
than 300,000 bombed animals, and I
should like to pay tribute to the Society’s
inspectors, whose heroic work made this
possible.

“We are giving even more direct as-
sistance to the war effort. We are supply-
ing, through the British Army authori-
ties, extra comfort, in Italy and to ‘the
war dogs here and at sea. We have also
sent $200,000 to the Soviet Army Vet-
erinary Corps.

“We are making many plans for our
work after the war. Let us pray that
happy day is not far off when this dark
conﬂict shall be ended, and champions of
mercy triumphant over forces of cruelty
and evil. Best of luck to your Be Kind
to Animals Week, and many thanks to
WB'C and BBC for making it possible for
me to send these greetings to an old
friend on behalf of the cause we both
have so much at heart.”

Replying to Sir Robert’s greeting, Dr.
Rowley said in part:

“Thank you, Sir Robert, for your most

][N the ﬁrst international broadcast

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Kindness
Week

on the

11‘

welcome and inspiring message to which
we have just listened. It was good news,
I need not tell you, when I learned re-
cently that you had been elected for the
ﬁfteenth consecutive time, Chairman of
the Royal S. P. C. A.

“You bring to our great cause an
honored name and a standing in the
public life of England of which your
historic Society must be justly proud.
Your position in the House of Commons
has given you opportunity to serve in a
notable way this world-wide movement
which America’s Be Kind to Animals
Week is now celebrating.

“Your Society has done a royal work
through these years of desolating war.
You have kept the home ﬁres burning
despite the discouragements constantly
facing you. The caring for and feeding
of tens of thousands of homeless and in-
jured animals, the enforcement of laws
protecting all animal life, the splendid
gift of over ﬁfty thousand pounds you

have raised and sent to Russia to help

lessen the sufferings of the more than
four million horses engaged in war work,
was a noble achievement. Our own So—
ciety, you may remember, was able,
through you, to secure for that gift some-
thing over $5,000.

“Here in our own land, humane work,
I think I may say, has in no respect
fallen down. Our own Society celebrated
last year the seventy-ﬁfth anniversary of
its founding by George Thorndike Angell.
The occasion was a memorable one.
Present at the luncheon were the Dean
of St. Paul’s Cathedral, the Governor of
our State, the Mayor of the City of
Boston, and a large number of leading
citizens.

“Important, of course, as all prevention
of cruelty is, I am glad, as you are, to
ﬁnd that more and more Humane Educa-
tion is being acknowledged as vitally
striking at the roots of this whole, vast
subject of cruelty. A few generations

Page 109

 

Dr. Francis H. Rowley at the microphone.

trained in the schools of our so-called
civilized nations to recognize the claims,
particularly upon the young, of all senti—
ent life, for justice, compassion, kind-
ness, and to recognize also as evil things
in humane life, race prejudice or hostility
because of color or creed, will go far
toward the day when these evil things
that have caused international discords
and unbelievably devastating wars will
become more and more impossible.

“Our own American Humane Educa-
tion Society, national and international,
has reached, chieﬂy in the schools of this
country, more than eight million boys and
girls since its organization.

“One of our former Presidents, Calvin
Coolidge, once said in his annual procla-
mation [for the observance of Be Kind to
Animals Week, “Whatever humane or-
ganizations have done for animals, they
have done vastly more for men, women
and children.” We must look forward
with profound faith into the future
course of this great movement in both
your land and ours. God is still in His
Heaven. Good—bye, Sir Robert,——accept
my heartiest best wishes, and Heaven
grant the speedy end of this appalling
conﬂict.”

Other Broadcasts

Five additional broadcasts were given
during the Week. On Humane Sunday,
Dr. Rudolph H. Schneider spoke over Sta-
tion WORL. Following this, on succes—
sive days, Albert A. Pollard broadcast
over Station WMEX; a round table dis-
cussion with Fred Garrigus, Dr. C. Law-
rence Blakely and Mrs. Adele Fread, over
Station WEEI; J. Robert Smith, over
Station WMEX; an interview between
Dr. George J. Freiermuth and Margaret
J. Kearns, over Station WCOP. Through-
out the Week, spot announcements were
featured over Stations WBZ, WORL,
WHDH and the Yankee Network.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 108

Pig Latin
(By R. H.)

GOOD many years ago a scientist
spent some time in Africa study-
ing the language of monkeys. I have an
incident to report that would indicate that
an animal with much less cranial devel—
opment than monkeys is credited with,
has some means of communicating with
his fellow swine which we studious bi—
peds as yet know nothing about.

Two insurance men paid a visit to a
prospect, a farmer. Finding the farmer
in his ﬁeld, they drove in and spent an
hour talking with him beside their car.
A hundred yards away six or eight hogs
of various ages and sizes were rather
idly prospecting. One of the shoats, an
inquiring and friendly young fellow,
wandered over to the car and discovered
that it was very pleasant to scratch his
back and sides against the mudguard
and the footboard. He kept up this de-
lightful exercise for some time; but after
a while he seemed to grow thoughtful, he
scraped himself more and more slowly,
and ﬁnally he desisted entirely. He stood
around difﬁdently for a moment or two
as if he couldn’t quite decide what to do
next. Then all at once he seemed to
come to a decision, and trotted off with
his little tail ﬂopping.

The three men had been watching him
with interest, but when he ambled out
of their ﬁeld of vision they went at their
business more vigorously and forgot him.
Five minutes or so later, however, they
were startled by a chorus of grunts and
squeaks. Bearing down on the inviting
automobile came the whole family of pigs,
with the enthusiastic young back—
scratcher in the lead. Like his friends
the insurance men, he had found a good
thing and he wanted everybody to know
about it. And though he presumably
had no such arsenal of imposing techni-
cal terms to draw on as the insurance
salesmen, he had proved that Pig Latin
can express thought clearly and persua-
sively.

ﬂ

 

 

 

Dictionary of Dogs
:By Aletha M. Bonner -

 

 

The Collie

The Collie's origin goes back

To early days, and to a pack

Of wildswolf-dogs, with long, coarse hair,
Which made dense forest-lands their lair.
This watch-dog, herder, friend of man,
Wears a rough coat of black or tan,

With frills of white on neck and toes—

In its soft eyes warm friendship glows.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

ANIMA LORE

CACTUS—There is a cactus popularly
believed to jump at persons and animals
as they pass. This is often attributed
to the cholla cactus of the Southwest,
the spiniest of all, which will penetrate
the hide of almost any animal. Curi-
ously enough, pack rats transport the
prickly joints and use them to protect
their nests, and cactus wrens lodge
their nests in the spiny branches.

COYOTES follow badgers around and

let the badgers dig ground squirrels for
them.

DUCKS—Fifty-six of the approxi-
mately 200 species of ducks, geese and
swans are found in the United States.
SHRIMP—The greatest distance trav-
eled by a shrimp on the South Atlantic
coast was 300 miles, the journey being
made in three months. Tagging of
shrimp by the Bureau of Fisheries made
possible the calculation.

BABY SEALS, unable to swim, are
taught by their mothers.

EAGLES mate for life and, year after
year, use the same nest, which may be
added to but never destroyed.

HOUSE RATS are largely dependent
upon both the food and shelter provided
by man. Their spread into new territory
has been nearly coincident with that of
people, except at higher altitudes and
in extremely dry or cold areas.
REPTILES—The salt-water crocodile is
the largest of the reptile family.

TALKING FISH—The sea horse, ac-
cording to an ichthyologist of the United
States Fish and Wildlife Service, ac-
tually makes snapping noises with its
jaws—almost inaudible—which seem to
serve as a means of communication.
MIMUS POLYGLOTTOS is the scientiﬁc
name for the popular mockingbird and
means "many-tongued mimic.”
LEMMINGS by the thousands, in cer-
tain years, go into the ocean and swim
outward disappearing forever.
GROUNDED—Swans, geese and brant,
river and diving ducks and mergansers
shed all wing feathers almost simulta-
neously and are unable to fly until the
ﬂight pinions grow again.

TOUCANS of Central America possess
enormous beaks, which look topheavy,
but in reality are quite light, because
they are pitted with air sacs.

4%

Any unusual or interesting facts con-
cerning animals will be gratefully re-
ceived. Please mention source. Address
—Animalore, Our Dumb Animals, 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston 15, Mass.

June 1944
Neighbors of Ours

By KATHERINE PETERS

NE bright sun‘shiny morning early
in May, an oriole, ﬂaunting his
black and orange suit, perched on the
clothesline in the back yard. He seemed
very undecided as the clothesline swung
up and down, for he kept casting his
round, beady eyes at the elm tree, which
was full of little, tender, green leaves.
No doubt, he was thinking that it was a
very nice place for a nest, because, after
twittering and fussing about for awhile,
he ﬂashed up among the branches and
burst into song.

He was such a madcap, rollicking about
all day long, that we could hardly keep
away from the garage window from
where we watched him ﬂit about from
branch to bran-ch. But he seemed rest-
less, as though he didn’t feel quite at
home, and in a few days when Mrs.
Oriole in her olive brown and orange
dress ﬂew up into the elm what a joyous
outburst there was.

It wasn’t long before we noticed her
picking up tiny twigs and pieces of grass,
so we took some horsehair out of an old,
rickety sofa that was stored upstairs
above the garage and strewed bits of it
here and there about the yard. Then we
cut a ball of twine into tiny pieces so
that the birds wouldn’t hang themselves,
which they sometimes do if they get
caught in a piece that is too long, and
scattered them on the bushes and the
fence. And in no time at all Mrs. Oriole
darted down to snatch up a piece of horse-
hair in her bill.

As we peeked through the garage win—
dow, we could see her at work through
the chinks between the leaves. All day
long she ﬂew back and forth, picking up
the horsehair and string that we had
strewn about, together with milkweed
ﬁbres from a weedy ditch, gradually
weaving them into a long sack which
opened at the top. It was a pretty nest,
and Mr. Oriole sat on a branch, caroling
away at the top of his voice. But after
the little birds had hatched, the parent
birds were kept so busy scouring the
neighborhood for insects and fat, hairy
caterpillar-s that Mr. Oriole didn’t have
much time to sing any more.

At ﬁrst we didn’t hear a peep out pf
the babies, but after they had sprouted
a few feathers they discovered what a
voice was for. Hour after hour they
nagged for food—dee—dee—dee—dee—
dee. What a racket they made! But it
was a good thing they did, for when the
ﬁrst little bird that ﬂew out of the nest
got lost under the hedge, his mother
found him right away and took him
something to eat. As the little birds got
stronger, the parents seemed nervous
about their safety, and then one day the
whole family streaked toward the woods.




 

June 191,1;

Retired Workers’ Fund

E are receiving gifts to the Ameri-

can Humane Education Society as a
trust fund, the interest to be used for the
beneﬁt of ﬁeld missionaries and others
who have spent their lives in promoting
humane education. Already several cases
have come to our attention and are being
relieved in this way. We will welcome
your contribution to this fund.

Please make checks payable to Albert
A. Pollard, Treasurer, American Humane
Education Society, 180 Longwood Ave-
nue, Boston, and specify that the amount
contributed is for the Humane Educa-
tion Trust Fund.

4%

Liberal Annuity Rates
ADVANTAGES

No coupons to clip, no papers to sign and
mail. You simply receive your checks at
stated intervals—that’s all there is to it.

Annuity agreements are frequently used
to provide for one’s or another’s future
years.

It is no experiment. There is no anxiety.
No ﬂuctuations in rate of income. No
waste of your estate by a will contest.

a: a: a: *

A pamphlet giving necessary information
gladly sent upon request.

The Massachusetts S. P. C. A., or the
American Humane Education Society, 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston 15-.

The management of our invested funds is
a guarantee of the security of these Life

Annuities.

RATES OF MEMBERSHIP IN
THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
OR THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.

Active Life $100 00 Active Annual $10 00
Associate Life 50 00 Associate Annual 5 00
Sustaining Life 20 00 Annual 1 00

Children’ 5 $0 75

Checks and other payments may be sent to ALBERT
A. POLLARD, Treasurer, 180 Longwood Avenue,
Boston 15.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

HOSPITAL REPORT FOR APRIL
At 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston 15

Cases entered in Hospital ...... 772
Cases entered in Dispensary . . . 1,506
Operations .................. 280
At Springﬁeld .Branch, 53 Bliss Street
Cases entered in Hospital ...... 200
Cases entered in Dispensary . . . . 547
Operations .................. 101
At Attleboro Clinic, 3 Commonwealth Ave.
Cases entered ................ 40
Totals

Hospital cases since opening

Mar. 1, 1915 .............. 232,179
Dispensary cases ............. 580,310
Total ............ 812,489

APRIL REPORT OF THE OFFICERS
OF THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.,
WITH HEADQUARTERS AT BOSTON,
METHUEN, SPRINGFIELD, PITTSFIELD,

ATTLEBORO, WENHAM, HYANNIS,
WORCESTER, FITCHBURG, NORTH-
AMPTON, HAVERHILL, HOLYOKE,
ATHOL, COVERING THE ENTIRE
STATE.
Miles traveled by humane ofﬁcers 14,458
Cases investigated ............ 199
Animals examined ............ 3,143
Animals placed in homes ........ 256
Lost animals restored to owners 63
Number of prosecutions ........ 3
Number of convictions ......... 2
Horses taken from work ........ 4
Horses humanely put to sleep . . . 23
Small animals humanely put to
sleep ...................... 1,911
Horse auctions attended ........ 19
Stockyards and Abattoirs
Animals inspected ............. 57,818
Cattle, swine and sheep humanely
put to sleep ................ 81

 

 

TO OUR

tion with any other similar Society.

.FORM or

property. describe the property).

given gladly.

 

In making your will. kindly bear in mind that the corporate title of our Society is "The Massachu-
setts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals": that it is the second incorporated (March.
I868) Society tor the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals in the country. and that it has no connec-

Any bequest especially intended tor the beneﬁt ot the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital. should.
nevertheless. be made to the Massachusetts Society tor the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals "for
the use of the Angeli Memorial Animal Hospital." as the Hospital is not incorporated but is the
property of that Society and is conducted by it.

I give to The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (or to the
American Humane Education Society). the sum of ................ dollars. (or. if other

The Society's address is I80 Longwood Avenue. Boston l5. Mass. Information and advice will be

FRIENDS

BEQUEST

 

 

 

 

 

Page 113

Veterinary Column

1. Question: Recently my six—months-
old puppy has appeared to be very weak
on his left front leg. When he walk-s and
plays the leg seems to give away and he
cannot support his weight. When he
sleeps the leg twitches, and at times it
must pain him, as he w-himpers and cries.
What is the cause of this condition and
can it be treated?

Answer: The condition you describe is
probably chorea. This is a persistent
clonic spasm or twitching of certain
muscles or muscle groups. It is seen most
often in the dog. It frequently follows
an acute infectious disease, as distemper,
to which it is a common sequel. Also it
appears in the early stages of rachitis
(rickets). The twitching of the muscles
is the most constant symptom and usually
involves those of the head and front legs,
though one or both of the hind limbs may
be affected. Often there is a peculiar
dip-ping motion of the head and shoulders.

As far as recovery or cure, the prog-
nosis is not encouraging. There is no
treatment of value for chorea. Some dogs
recover spontaneously with time and good
nutritious diets.

2. Question: Our large setter runs at
will through the meadows and wood lot
on our farm, and occasionally returns
home with small cuts and scratches on
his feet and legs. What is the best ﬁrst
aid treatment to give these until we can
take him to the veterinarian?

Answer: It would be most beneﬁcial to
injured animals and also helpful to your
veterinarian if some temporary treat-
ment were given to lacerations such as
you describe until the dog can be ecc-
amined by the doctor.

Minor lacerations, such as those where
only the skin is broken, should be ex-
amined and the hair around the area
trimmed way. A mild antiseptic powder,
such as boric acid powder, can be dusted
freely into the wound, and a clean band-
age applied. Be sure the bandage is not
too tight so as to stop circulation, also
that the bandage is evenly distributed
over the leg. In more severe lacerations
where the skin and muscle are involved
and there is considerable hemorrhage, a
tourniquet may be applied above the
wound. This should not be left on the leg
more than 10 to 15 minutes, or should be
loosened at those intervals and then re-
placed if necessary. Over the wounded
area a clean tight (pressure) bandage
may be placed to attempt to stop the
hemorrhage. Usually these wounds need
immediate attention and often stitches
are needed to close the wound and control
the hemorrhage. However, the above
methods will serve to make the dog more
comfortable until the veterinarian is
reached.

N. L. G., Veterinary Dept.
Angell Animal Hospital

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

General Observance

Despite the many disturbing inﬂuences
that pervade our home front, the thirtieth
annual observance of Be Kind to Animals
Week took place during the last week in
April.

Kindness to Animals Week and Hu-
mane Sunday were sponsored by the Mas-
sachusetts Society for the Prevent-ion of
Cruelty to Animals and fostered by it
through the years, until it can now be
said that the interest and active partici-
pation in these Observances have become
nation-wide in scope and are a noticeable
stimulus to the humane movement
throughout the country.

It is apparent that Humane Education
is now receiving marked attention and
recognition in the schools of our Com-
monwealth. This is in accord with the

 

 

I

dictum propounded by the famous
educator, Massachusetts born, Hor-
ace Mann, who said, “Whatever
we wish to appear in our national
character we must teach in our
public school-s.”

Each year it has been the cus-
tom to put into the hands of teach-
ers throughout our State a pam-
phlet or program entitled, “Humane
Exercises.” Over 8,000 copies were
distributed free at the request of
over 200 school superintendents,
1,600 being supplied to teachers in
the Boston schools.

Space is unavailable to record
the vast amount of humane liter-
ature asked for from all sections
of the country and generously pro-
vided by our Society.

Our heartiest congratulations
are extended to all the humane so—
cieties and individuals and to all radio
stations, newspapers and public ofﬁcials
that helped to make the Week a signal
success.

Humane Poster Contest

Our state-wide humane poster contest,
a yearly feature of our Society’s celebra-
tion, exceeded all bounds this year with
a total number of entries of 6,137 posters
received from 160 cities and towns
throughout the State. Participating in
the contest were children from 444
schools.

Gold pins were awarded to 592 winning
entries as ﬁrst prizes; 676 silver pins, as
second prizes and, in addition, 865 re-
ceived honorable mention, including a
year’s subscription to Our Dumb Animals.

In order to acquaint the citizens of
Boston with this splendid project, dis-plays

of posters were arranged through the
cooperation of Jordan Marsh Company,
William Fil-ene’s Sons and R. H. Stearns.
Window space was donated and in addi—
tion, the Boys’ Department of Jordan
Marsh Company was tastefully decorated
with some of the prize winners.

Kindness Week Proclamations

Ofﬁcial recognition of the Week was
made possible by proclamations of gov—
ernors, mayors and other authorities
throughout the nation. Procla-imed Gov-
ernor Saltonstall of Massachusetts:

“The recognition of Humane Sunday
and Be Kind to Animals Week, now
nationally observed, was originally started
thirty years ago by our own Massachu-
setts S. P. C. A. It has been our Society,
also, that has led in national humane
legislation, which has been copied largely
by practically every State in the Union.

“Following the lead of George T.
Angell, more than eight million children
in this country have been gathered into
small humane groups which have had
awakened and fostered in their minds
the great principle-s of justice, fair play
and kindness toward every form of life.
These are the same principles for which
America is ﬁghting today with the ideal
of ending race prejudice, intolerance,
lawlessness, anarchy and cruelty.

“Inasmuch as Massachusetts, through
the efforts of our own State Society, is
really the birthplace of this important,
nation-wide celebration, every citizen
should join in the observance of a Week
dedicated to the welfare of our animal
friends.

“I, therefore, am glad to designate
Sunday, April 23, as Humane Sunday,
and the week of April 24-29 as Be Kind

\
i
{

 

 

 

 

Wide Observance of Be Kind to Animals Week

to Animals Week, and urge our people to
observe the occasion, and particularly
request that teachers in all our schools
set aside a Humane Day with appropriate
exercises.”

In his forthright endorsement of Kind—
ness Week, Governor Robert 0. Blood of
New Hampshire said:

“While we ﬁght to conquer the cruelty
of the Japanese toward ourselves and our
human allies, it is well to remember those
allies who cannot speak for themselves,
whose faithfulness as pets in our homes
and as comrades on the ﬁeld of battle
entitle them to our kindness, protection
and gratitude. It is well to remember
that the struggle for humanity involves
these friends and servants of man and
that this campaign must be continued
without recall, on the home front.”

In his message commending the work
of the Rhode Island Humane Education
Society, Governor J. Howard McGrath
wrote:

“Because of the endeavors of the
Rhode Island Humane Education Society,
our children of today are being taught
that kindness is a thing of beauty and
that in acquiring sympathy for every
living thing, they are preparing them-
selves to be better men and women in the
years to come. The exemplary work in
which the Society is so diligently engaged
is worthy of the whole-hearted support
of every citizen.”

Mayor Maurice J. Tobin, of Boston,
stated in his proclamation:

“More than sixty years ago, George
Thorndike Angell, founder of the Mas-
sachusetts S. P. C. A. and the American
Humane Education Society, organized
here in Boston the ﬁrst American Band

of Mercy, pledging children to be
kind to animals and to protect them
from cruel usage. That pledge is
familiar to thousands of Massachu-
setts’ sons and daughters of the last
two generations who learned it in
our public schools.

“Today more than 300,000 of
these Bands of Mercy have been
organized, through the efforts of
the above-named Societies, in prac-
tically every state in the Union and
in almost every civilized country in
the world. They are implanting and
fostering in the mind-s of the young
the great principles of justice, fair
play, and kindness toward every
form of life, human and sub-human.
They are quickening and inculcat-
ing the spirit of chivalry and hu-
manity which characterizes the best
citizenship of the world, whose in—
ﬂuence and leading will ﬁnally put
an end to wars, and steadfastly pre-
vent lawlessness, anarchy and cruelty.

“It is altogether ﬁtting, therefore, that
Boston should join in the nation—wide cele-
bration of a Week dedicated to the wel-
fare of our animal friends, so, as Mayor
of the City of Boston, I do hereby urge
the fullest observance of Humane Sunday
and Be Kind to Animals Week, and call
upon the citizens, young and old, to re-
member to apply the Golden Rule to
animals as well as to their fellow human
beings, and I particularly request that
teachers in all our schools, especially in
the elementary grades, observe a Humane
Day with appropriate exercises.”

Mayors of other surrounding cities also
gave recognition to the Week.

From Springﬁeld and Holyoke
An attractive radio program was pre—
sented by eleven children from a local

 

school and arranged by Mrs. Charlena B.
Kibbe who broadcasts weekly from
Springﬁeld Station WSPR on animal sub-
jects. An eleven-year-old boy served as
chief announcer and called upon his mates
to read original stories about their pets.
The children were complimented for their
ﬁne presentation.

A ﬁtting observance of Humane Week
was projected by the naturalist and
curator of the Holyoke Museum, Mr.
Burlingham Schurr, who encourages his
young people to a better understanding
and love for animals. He says:

“Inspiring in children genuine love for
ﬂowers, birds, animals and all the wonder-
ful productions in Nature is the instru-
mental factor in promoting a true con-
ception of love for all life and in directing
the way to the utmost joy of living.”

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




December 19.41;

 

AN APPLE A DAY
"Flash." convalescing saddle horse at the
AngeII Memorial Animal HospitalI receives
an apple from Nurse Kathleen DriscoII. Flash
is recovering from a serious eye infection.

:13

Airport Mascot

OTHERHOOD, in its most solicitous
form, was demonstrated by a plain
black cat that adopted a local airport
cafe for her home and place to raise a
family. Being a true airport mascot and
liking high places, she stayed on the roof
of the cafe most of the time, and there
her four kittens were born. Now, a ﬂat-
top roof in a Texas mid-summer is deﬁ-
nitely not'a healthy place to be, so every
morning at ten o’clock as the sun began
its climb, the mother brought her kittens
down, one by one, and deposited them in
a box under a shady bush.

It was both a diﬂicult and hazardous
feat to scramble up and down the side
of the building carrying a kitten in her
mouth, but she made eight trips every
day for ﬁve weeks! She permitted the
kittens to play on the ground all day, but
as soon as the sun disappeared and cool
breezes began, she would repeat her
morning performance until all four of
them were back on the roof for the night.

One day she evidently decided they
were capable of caring for themselves, or
possibly they had grown too large and
heavy for her to carry. She brought
them down as usual in the morning, but
that night just ignored their indignant

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Page 235

Animals Know Their Vitamins
By L. E. EUBANKS

lived in India and studied at the

Government hospital, learned a
great deal about eye disorders as affected
by foods. During an epidemic the natives
came in droves for treatment, but in spite
of the most diligent effort the patients
could not be cured permanently.

Then the doctor found that not one of
the numerous monkeys which populated
the surrounding forests hadthis disease.
This gave him an idea which he followed
up. The apes lived on fresh fruit which
was rich in vitamins and thus protected
themselves against such ailments; but
the staple food of the natives consisted
of rice which they grew in their ﬁelds,
and these ﬁelds, after decades, even cen-
turies, of continuous use without treat-
ment of the soil, had become exhausted.

An examination of the rice proved that
it did not contain any Vitamins; so the
patients were given a diet rich in Vita—
mins and their health improved rapidly.
It is interesting to note that the doctor
did not succeed in getting even one of
the monkeys to eat this Vitamin-deﬁcient
rice, although these animals otherwise
are very greedy, omnivorous, and “accom-
modating.”

&_ PHYSICIAN - SCIENTIST who

Animals of prey, of course, do not de-
pend directly on vegetable products.
When a lion or tiger, for instance, starts
to eat his kill, he is very apt to tear the
carcass open and devour the pancreas and
intestines—vitamins again.

When sick, animals usually think ﬁrst
of a laxative, reminding us of physicians’
advice to humans. The ailing cat or dog
eats grass when attacked by digestive
trouble, as a laxative. Bears know a
species of berry that serves them as a
laxative, and When they awake from
hibernation the ﬁrst thing they do is to
look for these berries in order to bring
their digestive function into order.

Animals know, too, when to eat certain
foods, and when, perhaps, to avoid those
very ones. Hinds (red deer) are a strik-
ing example; when the female hind is
expecting her young she eats only a cer—
tain kind of plant, a variety she never
touches ordinarily.

The director of a great zoo once said:
“If one of my animals falls ill and we
do not know the cause, I order every
species of plant and food that grows in
its natural habitat brought here. Thus,
in most cases, the sick creature ﬁnds its
medicine and recovers.”

 

 

 

 

.RETURNING VETERINARIAN GIVEN WARM RECEPTION BY CANINE PATIENT

"Parky." huge St. Bernard. is shown enthusiastically greeting Dr. Gerry B. SchneIIel As-

sistant Chief of Staff. Ang'eII Memorial Animal Hospital. Dr. SchneIIe recently returned

to the Hospital to resume his duties. after having served for eighteen months as a

Captain in the Army Veterinary Corps. Remount Depot. Front Royal. Virginia. where

he was Officer in Charge of Veterinary Activities at the War Dog Reception and
Training Center.

cries to be taken up to bed. The cafe
owner ﬁnally took them into his garage
and gave them a large box to sleep in.
He reports that the new arrangement is
evidently satisfactory. At his last in-
spection, mamma and babies were sound
asleep.
——Dor0thy Goodwin Rodreick

 

 




 

 

 

June 191,4

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

NAVY HONORS NEW MASCOT WITH RATING OF BOATSWAIN'S MATE

Though saddened by +he loss of their former pet. these members of the United States
Navy appealed to the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital for an0+her canine com-

panion to take its place.

Hospital doctors promp+ly responded to their plea by pre-

senting "Boots." two-months-old mongrel collieI who was promptly induc+ed into the

Navy as boatswain's ma+e. Shown wi+h +he new mascot are. left +0 rig-ht, L+.-Com-

mander Dennis F. Folds. Dr. George J. Freiermuthl Hospital ve+erinarianl who made
the presentationI and Coxswain E. L. Connolly.

@

Here’s Your Hat
By GENEVIEVE v. HUNT

F the many factual experiences of
canine intelligence I have witnessed
throughout the years, I believe the fol-
lowing to be one of the most outstanding.
The Thursday Club, of which I am a
member, met recently at the home of Mrs.
McGrath, our hostess for the afternoon.
As each guest arrived and Mrs. Mc-
Grath went to the door to greet them,
“Rags,” her Sealyham Terrier, would go
to the door with her and give a couple of
friendly woofs.

He was such a cute, well-mannered
little animal he captured all our hearts
and one and all proceeded to make a big
fuss over him.

Rags seemed very well pleased with all
the attention he was receiving until Mrs.
Powers, a tardy member arrived.

Instead of a pat and a word of praise,
however, Mrs. Powers paused in the door-
way and pushed Rags with her handbag.
“Get away from me, you horrid little
creature,” she cried. “Get away from
me. I can’t stand dogs!”

With a surprised look, Rags ran across
the room to a safe place under a table.
There, with one ear cocked up, he watched

silently as Mrs. Powers went into the
bedroom to remove her new red hat and
coat. He was watching still when she
joined us in the dining room and our
hostess began pouring the tea.

For awhile then, Rags was forgotten
and everything was as calm as a summer
breeze when Mrs. Powers let out a shriek
that almost sent my teacup crashing to
the ﬂoor.

No, it wasn’t anything to be alarmed
over. Nothing much—just Rags with a
new red hat held ﬁrmly in his strong
teeth, the veil dragging like a train on
the ﬂoor behind him.

Straight to Mrs. Powers he trotted
and dropping the hat at her smartly clad
feet, the small dog backed quickly out of
reach and began to bark.

“Here’s your hat! What’s your hurry?”
Unable to express his feelings in words,
Rags had resorted to action.

Yes, I would say that Rags heads the
list when it comes to intelligence. Not
only for bringing the hat to Mrs. Powers,
but also for selecting the right one when
there were eight hats on the bed that
afternoon and three of them were red.

Page 115
On a Thousand Hills

By S'ERAPH LLEWELLYN

He said he shot the deer with certain aim
One bullet hitting square between brown eyes
That wide with fear and glued in stark surprise
Had but an instant sooner held the Home
Of joy in living on these hills—God said:
”The cattle on a thousand hills are mine."
Then Great Creator this deer lying dead,
This fleet proud creature, is it also Thine?

I try to vision Jesus with a gun

Raised to His shoulder, eye intent to kill
Even for food—much less for sportsman's tun
Or that He might a woman’s wish fulfill . . .
I try to picture Jesus with a gun . . .

I only see a cross on Calvary.

4%

Friendly Patients

NE of the most interesting aspects

in the work of our Hospital is watch-
ing the friendships between animals
which often occur. Our cover picture
shows a monkey and a kitten together.
Indeed, they became inseparable com-
panions during their stay.

In the illustration below, Miss Jean
Vorbeau, nurse at the Angell Animal
Hospital, is shown with two of her pa-
tients just after they had been pro-
nounced all well and ready to rejoin their
masters.

“Skipper,” frisky little mongrel beagle,
and the beautiful, pure white, prize-
winning rabbit, had been hospitalized
for several days undergoing treatment.
Hospital doctors and attendants have
been amazed at the unusual friendliness
between these totally different members
of the animal kingdom during their con-
valescent period.

 

Nurse Jean Vorbeau and her patients.

 




 

May 1944

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Miss Gracie Fields~receives certificate from Dr. Francis H. Rowley.

Noted Actress, New Member

QN a recent Visit to our Society, Miss
Gracie Fields, internationally fa-
mous British actress, was awarded an
Honorary Membership. Immediately fol-
lowing the presentation, Miss Fields made
a tour of the Angell Memorial Animal
Hospital. Remarking on the picture and
certiﬁcate, she said:
“I’m very happy to have it so I can
always remember one of the most inter-

«:3

Neither Rain Nor Storm

T takes more than bad weather to keep
representatives of our Society from
going to the rescue of injured or stranded
animals. It was one of those days when
the rain was slanting down, driven by a
high wind, that a call was received that
a cat was marooned on a roof, high above
the ground, and was afraid to come down.
Ambulance Driver Sidney Graves
turned out just the same and, taking a
ladder to the Roxbury home, succeeded in
restoring “Mickey” to his master, Nor—
man Rae Burke. Norman immediately
wrapped his pet in a blanket as a pro-
tection after its 48-hour exposure.
Mickey was chased up a tree and from
there jumped across to the roof.

1%

Quotable

AYS Miss Virginia W. Sargent, Presi-
dent, Animal Protective Association,
Washington, D. C. — “Both the name
George T. Angell and the term Liberty
Ship are very ﬁtting—an angel of mercy
to give liberty to captives of cruelty.”

esting afternoons I’ve ever spent. I shall
always treasure my beautiful citation,
too. I’m going to take it back to Califor-
nia with me and frame it and hang it in
a room where I keep all my very special
awards.” ,

Dr. Rowley complimented Miss Field
for her contribution in bringing happi—
ness to the world.

Norman Rae Burke and

 

Page 85

International Broadcast

HE outstanding feature of our Be
Kind to Animals Week celebration
this year was an international broadcast
between our Society and the Royal S. P.
C. A., London. Our President, Dr. Fran—
cis H. Rowley and Sir Robert Gower,
K. C. V. 0., Chairman of the Royal
S. P. C. A. and well-known member of
the British Parliament, exchanged ex-
periences over the air to make a ﬁtting
observance of Kindness Week.
Further information will appear in our
June issue.
43

Visit to Front Royal

RECENT Visitor at the War Dog

Reception and Training Center,
Front Royal, Virginia, was Executive
Vice-President Eric H. Hansen. On his
arrival, he immediately got in touch with
Capt. Gerry B. Schnelle, on leave from
our own Angell Animal Hospital.

Mr. Hansen thus had a chance to see
a great many dogs and horses, to all
appearances excellently cared for and
trained with kindness and understand-
ing. He concluded that, although it is
true that the dogs were not asked if they
wanted to participate, it was indeed grat-
ifying to ﬁnd expert and thoughtful men
in charge of the program.

Each dog is housed in what might be
called a two-room house——a veranda
and an inner room made from a barrel.
This room is equipped with fresh, clean
straw, making a warm bed even in in-
clement weather. The animals are well
fed and have constant veterinary care.

/

Photo, Boston Globe

"Mickey." safe and sound after rooftop experience.

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

4—-.>e:—~1-. 1‘" ..

 

 

 

 

 

9 May 1941;

Retired Workers’ Fund

WE are receiving gifts to the Ameri-

can Humane Education Society as a
trust fund, the interest to be used for the
beneﬁt of ﬁeld missionaries and others
who have spent their lives in promoting
humane education. Already several cases
have come to our attention and are being
relieved in this way. We will welcome
your contribution to this fund.

Please make checks payable to Albert
A. Pollard, Treasurer, American Humane
Education Society, 180 Longwood Ave-
nue, Boston, and specify that the amount
contributed is for the Humane Educa-
tion Trust Fund.

4.3

Liberal Annuity Rates
ADVANTAGES

No coupons to clip, no papers to sign and
mail. You simply receive your checks at
stated intervals—that’s all there is to it.

Annuity agreements are frequently used
to provide for one’s or another’s future
years.

It is no experiment. There is no anxiety.
No ﬂuctuations in rate of income. No
waste of your estate by a will contest.

:1: a: :1: are

A pamphlet giving necessary information
gladly sent upon request.

The Massachusetts S. P. C. A., or the
American Humane Education Society, 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston 15.

The management of our invested funds is
a guarantee of the security of these Life
Annuities.

RATES OF MEMBERSHIP IN
THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
OR THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.
Active Life $100 00 Active Annual $10 00
Associate Life 50 00 Associate Annual 5 00
Sustaining Life 20 00 Annual 1 00
Children’s $0 75
Checks and other payments may be sent to ALBERT

A. POLLARD, Treasurer, 180 Longwood Avenue,
Boston 15.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

HOSPITAL REPORT FOR MARCH

At 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston 15

Cases entered in Hospital ...... . 851
Cases entered in Dispensary . . 1,495
Operations .................. 299

At Springﬁeld Branch, 53 Bliss Street

Cases entered in Hospital ..... 273

Cases entered in Dispensary . . . 575

Operations .................. 148

At Attleboro Clinic, 3 Commonwealth Ave.

Cases entered ............... 59
Totals

Hospital cases since opening

Mar. 1, 1915 .............. 231,207
Dispensary cases ............. 578,217
Total ........... 809,424

MARCH REPORT OF THE OFFICERS
OF THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.,
WITH HEADQUARTERS AT BOSTON,
METHUEN, SPRINGFIELD, PITTSFIELD,

ATTLEBORO, WENHAM, HYANNIS,
WORCESTER, FITCHIBURG, NORTH-
AMPTON, HAVERHILL, HOLYOKE,
ATHOL, COVERING THE ENTIRE
STATE.
Miles traveled by humane ofﬁcers 12,215
Cases investigated ............ 192
Animals examined ............ 3,760
Animals placed in homes ....... 233
Lost animals restored to owners 60
Number of prosecutions ........ 5
Number of convictions ......... 4
Horses taken from work ....... 5
Horses humanely put to sleep . . . 25
Small animals humanely put to
sleep ...................... 1,353
Horse auctions attended ........ 15
Stockyards and Abattoirs
Animals inspected ............ 52,528
Cattle, swine and sheep humanely
put to sleep ................ 134

 

 

TO OUR

tion with any other similar Society.

FORM OF

property. describe the property).

given gladly.

 

In making your will. kindly bear in mind that the corporate title ot our Society is "The Massachu-
setts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals": that it is the second incorporated (March.
I868) Society tor the Prevention ot Cruelty to Animals in the country. and that it has no connec-

Any bequest especially intended tor the benefit of the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital. should.
nevertheless. be made to the Massachusetts Society tor the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals "tor
the use ot the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital." as the Hospital is not incorporated but is the
property ot that Society and is conducted by it.

I give to The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention ot Cruelty to Animals (or to the
American Humane Education Society). the sum of ................ dollars. (or. it other

The Society's address is 180 Longwood Avenue.

FRIENDS

REQUEST

Boston l5. Mass. Information and advice will be

 

 

 

 

 

Page 93

Veterinary Column

1. Question: I have recently purChased
a young puppy and have been advised by
several friends that the dog should
receive cod liver oil. Is this beneﬁcial,
and, if so, how much shall I give?

Answer: Yes, it is true that growing
puppies need Vitamin D additions to the
diet, especially in the winter. As to the
amount necessary to give, it depends
entirely on the size of the dog and the
age. Smaller breeds and younger puppies,
of course, do not require as much as
larger breeds and more rapidly growing
dogs. Generally speaking, the very small
or toy breeds should receive one-half to
one teaspoonful daily; the small breeds,
1-2 teaspoonfuls daily; the medium
breeds, 11/2—2 tablespoonfuls; and the
large breeds, 2-3 tablespoonfuls.

2. Question: Is it true that dogs cut
two sets of teeth? If so, where do the
puppy teeth go after they are shed?

Answer: Yes, dogs have two sets of
teeth, the milk teeth and the permanent
teeth. The milk teeth are shed between
the fourth and sixth month. These teeth
are usually swallowed and cause the
puppy no trouble. At times they may be
spit out, and the owner will notice them
around the house.

3. Question: I have noticed small
white worms around the tail of my dog,
also they are passed in his stools. Are
these pin worms?

Answer: No, the dog does not have
pin worms. The small white worms you
have noticed are the mature segments
of the tape worm which are passed regu-
larly as they develop and are broken off
from the main worm.

4. Question: My puppy has been
vomiting long white worms. How shall
I worm him?

Answer: The worm you describe is
probably the round worm (Toxacara
canis) of the dog. Treatment should be
instituted for the health and comfort of
your puppy. However, the patented
worm remedies should be used with
extreme care, and the safest procedure
would be to take the puppy to your local
veterinarian for treatment.

N. L. G., Veterinary Dept.
Angell Animal Hospital

:13

Pleasure of a Dog
The great pleasure of a dog is that you
may make a fool of yourself with him and
not only will he not scold you, but he will
make a fool of himself, too.
——Samuel Butler

 

 




 

From the

' PRESIDENT’S DESK

 

 

OVIN G kindness is worth more than
all self-sacriﬁces.

Forgive, and God will forgive thee.

Love is greater than alms.

Alms require the giving of money——
love, the giving of self.

Alms are only for the poor—the rich
need love as well.

The good man of all the Gentile races
will inherit the world to come.

—From the J ewish Talmud

@

T was Alexandre Dumas pere, who

said, “Dogs are candidates for hu—

manity.” They already have many of its
virtues and few of its vices.

@

ERHAPS he was a cynic, but he was

no fool—the man who said, twenty
odd years ago, “The War to end war has
been succeeded by a Peace to end peace.”
Can it happen again?

@

HERE is food for thought in the

saying of Bernard Shaw that the
more things a man is ashamed of, the
more respectable citizen he is.

4%

T is remarkable what wonderful stories

of animal intelligence and devotion
the fertile imagination of the average
newspaper reporter can produce.

1%

E was a wise old King who, con-

fronted by many a sorrow and
bitter experience, learned the wisdom of
saying to himself, “This too will pass.”

@
. T. BARN UM’S biographer made the
unexpected statement that the fa-
mous showman never manifested any par-
ticular fondness for animals. Business
was business.
:13

GAINST the inhumanity of race

prejudice, violence, unbrotherly
strife, and for peace and a wide humanity,
Humane Education unceasingly stands.

Have They a Future?

E are thinking of that vast world of

sentient life, to which belong the
creatures we speak of as below us in the
scale of being. Does death for them end
all? No man can answer that question.
As to our own immortality we cannot
prove it. It is a matter of faith, believ—
ing where we cannot see.

Yet, if the scales of eternal justice are
somewhere in a ﬁnal reckoning to be
balanced, one cannot help wondering what
will go into those scales to balance the
suffering endured by earth’s unnumbered,
innocent animals during the ages through
which they have been the victims of
man’s indifference, cruelty and neglect.
The way of the transgressor is hard, but
the beasts of the ﬁeld and the fowl of the
air have not transgressed. They have
lived out their lives, violating no con-
science, incurring no guilt, and yet their
sufferings have been one of the blackest
pages in human history.

@
A Prayer

HE author of this prayer we knew.

It breathes his spirit—the spirit of a
ﬁne Christian soul. His name was Morney
Williams:

0 God, who hast made man in Thine
own likeness and who does love all whom
Thou hast made, suffer us not, because
of difference in race, color or condition,
to separate ourselves from others, and
thereby from Thee; but teach us the
unity of Thy family and the universality
of Thy love. As Thy Son, our Savior,
was born of an Hebrew mother and min-
istered ﬁrst to His brethren of the
House of Israel, but rejoiced in the faith
of a Syro—Phoenician woman and of a
Roman soldier, and suffered His cross to
be carried by a man of Africa, teach us,
also, while loving and serving our own,
to enter into the communion of the whole
human family; and forbid that, from
pride of birth and hardness of heart, we
should despise any for Whom Christ died,

, or injure any in whom He lives. Amen.

Premonition in Animals
‘NIMALS have strange premonitions
sometimes. Dogs showed signs of
great uneasiness two days before the last
eruption of Mt. Etna began, and went
about howling. Birds also stopped sing-
ing two days before.

When the ﬁrst shock came, cats mewed
pitifully and rubbed themselves against
the feet of the nearest human being.

Hares came out of their hiding places
and huddled together on the roads, show-
ing not the slightest fear of passers—by.

4%
Great Sad Russia

HEN we read the literature of

Russia, and perhaps even more
when we listen to the national music of
the Russian people, the strange charm,
vibrant with the suppressed glow of pas-
sion, makes us conscious of the mighty,
stirring echoes of melancholy from limit-
less steppes, from the unknown depth-s of
an alien existence; we seem to hear a
soul in bondage utter its eternal yearning
for liberty, and deep down in that soul
we recognize a world unborn.

—Qu0ted
:13

For You and Me

N an article contributed to the maga-
zine, Thz’nk. Dr. Robert A. Milliken,
one of the world’s leading scientists,
writes, “The key to the future of peace
and the future of civilization lies in real
Anglo-American understanding and co-
operation. Whether we can get it or not
depends upon how you and I, the average
American citizens, stop the spread of
anti-British poison wherever we ﬁnd it,
and then think straight and talk straight
now and in the post-war years.”

@

HE carrion crow, like many of our

wild birds, is loyal to his mate as long
as she lives. The swan mates for life. If
one of the pair dies, the other never re-
mates. A pretty respectable social life
exists among birds.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

MAINE'S FORMER GOVERNOR CALLS FOR PET AT HOSPITAL

DUMB

OUR

 

"Garry." l2-year-old Irish Setter. joins his devoted masterI Percival P. Baxterl former
Governor of Maine and Director of our two Societies. after treatment at our Hospital.
"Garry" is a direct descendant of the first of his breed acquired by the Governor in
l887. It will be recalled that when one of his forebears died in I923. while Mr. Baxter
was Governor. the flag over the State House was flown at half mast. Governor Baxter
maintains an interesting dog cemetery on Mackworth Islandl near Portland. where lb
of his dogs are buried. He also purchased and donated to his State the ||3.000-acre
Baxter State Park. Mount Katahdin. wild-life sanctuary. where all hunting and trapping
are prohibited.

a

“ Not for Me”

By NORMAN C. SCHLICHTER

INCOLN’S love for and kindness to

all animals has long been prover—

bial, but he had a special interest
in horses and was trained to see their
ﬁner points almost instantly.

Mr. Johnson Brigham, who was for
many years Iowa’s State Librarian, liked
to tell an experience of his when he
worked as a quite young man in Wash-
ington when Lincoln was President.

In the summer of 1864, the youth was
promoted from the job of a hall boy in
the ofﬁce of the Sanitary Commission to
be the chief clerk’s ﬁrst assistant. One
of the delights of his new job was the
privilege of taking the chief clerk’s horse
out for exercise in the evening off hours.

The horse happened to be known widely
in Washington and elsewhere. It was a
coal-black stallion that had made an envi-
able record on the race tracks and was
then the fastest running horse at the

Capital. Besides this the animal was
generally considered the handsomest
horse in the district.

That summer, President Lincoln was
using the Soldier’s Home as his tempo-
rary residence and every evening he
would ride out to the Home from the
White House in an open carriage. The
ﬁrst evening that the stallion and his
rider passed Lincoln’s carriage, young
Brigham was quick to notice Lincoln’s
instant interest in the animal. The Presi-
dent waved his hand and bowed low to
the pair as they passed him.

Never once that summer when the
young rider and his magniﬁcent horse
passed the President did the latter fail
to touch the brim of his tall stovepipe
hat in a sweeping salute.

“Of course, I knew well,” Mr. Brigham
used to say, “that that salute was not
for me but for my almost perfect horse.”

ANIMALS

January 1 91,1;

That Mysterious Something
By BURLINGHAM SCHURR

HE Book of Nature is the book of

books from which man has acquired
everything in all ways—step by step from
the beginning of time. And from the
beginning of time, man has had for the
supreme ability that made it possible for
him to make progress through the ages,
the one highest of thoughts that can
enter the mind of man, thought of God.

Thought of the Creator has been up-
permost in the mind of man from the
beginning, and as human kind increased
and multiplied and spread over the world,
the predominant thought in man caused
him to express in one way or another
worship of the Creator. The mind of
man has worked in a multitude of ways to
grasp the right solution in rendering
praise and supplication unto the Great
Ruler. Therefore, it has pleased man to
bow to the sun, the moon, the stars—to
worship mountains and waters; to make
living sacriﬁces; to inﬂict torture; and in
all manner of ways the effort has ever
been made to get in touch with that which
can satisfy that mysterious something
within the breast of man.

One evening, as I sat before the ﬁre in
the living room of my home, I did con-
siderable thinking. My thoughts went
out to the birds I had fed during the
day, and I wondered how many nature
lovers distribute food to the feathered
.creatures. A considerable number, un—
doubtedly. I sank deeper into my chair,
closed my eyes and meditated. This scat-
tering of crumbs, this love for birds and
animals shared by so many—does it
signify anything? Love for ﬂowers, love
for dumb animals, love for our fellow-
men—what is the measure of love that
dwells in the breast of man? Perhaps I
fell asleep and dreamed that deep in the
heart of every person is a love so true, so
sterling, so profound, that if touched and
awakened properly would blossom into
such beauty and sweetness of life as to
cause peace and good will among men to
reign supreme the world over. If some-
how, this deeper, better love in man can
be drawn outward to the mastering of
all that is selﬁsh, greedy and hateful,
what a wonderful world this would be.

 

 

Dictionary of Dogs
— By Alewm. M. Hammer —_

The Airedale

In Canine history we read

“The Airedale is an English breed—

A black and tan, wire-haired, sport dog'—
His virtues we now catalogue:
Good-natured, brave, with grateful heart,
A watchful friend, and keenly smart.

In fact, the strong points of these brutes,
Should be prized human attributes.

 




 

 

 

 

 

Page 6

Nature’s Prize Prank,
The Aardvark

F ANIMALS entered Noah’s Ark in

the order listed in Noah Webster’s dic-
tionary, then the aardvark family was
ﬁrst aboard. But if precedence was de-
cided by a beauty contest, we may feel
certain that Mr. and Mrs. Aardvark em-
barked at the tail of the procession, ac-
companied possibly by their fellow coun-
trymen, the gnus and the wart—hogs.

Nature must have fashioned the
homely aardvark while in one of her
most playful moods, for in this unusual
creature we ﬁnd embodied everything for
the making of a real prize prank of odd
construction. The back of the aardvark
is arched like a rainbow, coated with a
pitifully scarce amount of fuzzy yellow
hair; on the short neck Nature set a
long, narrow head, adorned with a great
pair of donkey-like ears; she gave this
fellow a long tubular snout, and ﬁnished
up with a long tapering tail, minus even
a tiny bit of hair.

The aardvark is found mostly in
Africa, and when Dutch explorers found
it there in the 17th century they gave it
the name of aardvark, meaning “earth
pig.” They ﬁrst noticed it at dusk among
the termite or “white ant” mounds that
dot the region, and were amazed at the
way it could burrow into the ground;
hence the name.

The aardvark, despite his hideous ap-
pearance, is timid and quite harmless,
and feeds mostly at night, sleeping away
the daylight hours in a cool, deep burrow.

When the aardvark invades an ant vil-
lage, he tears a small hole in the side of
an “ant hill,” and as soon as the infuriated
insects appear, he begins sweeping them
up in great quantities with his sticky
tongue. And it is there in one spot that
he stands with dogged patience until his
appetite has been satisﬁed. If one “hill”
fails to supply enough food, he becomes
the unwelcome guest of another “white
ant” colony.

——J. Frank Browning

 

 

Teachers. Attention!

The Humane Key Award is a con-
test open to all educators.

If you are interested in winning a
l4-karat gold key and two hundred
dollars in War Bonds or cash. write to
the National Humane Key Commit-
tee. American Humane Education
Society. I80 Longwood Avenue. Bos-
ton I5. Mass.. for entrance blanks and
full instructions.

For additional information. please
refer to the back covers of the Sep-
tember and October issues of this
magazine.

 

 

 

 

 

 

' a storm.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

ANIMA LORE

BOWER BIRDS construct beautiful
playgrounds, used largely for courting.
Mosses are planted, root down, over
which may be scattered bright shells,
brilliant ﬂowers, and even the enameled
wings of insects and beetles. These are
replaced as they fade. There is a struc-
ture built with a balcony, or a tunnel
run, where dances are held.

SCENT is a means of communication be-
tween ﬂowers and insects, making them
interdependent.

DEER MICE can climb trees and will
sometimes conﬁscate birds’ nests, but
before taking possession, will roof them
over to protect themselves from rains
and storms.

TAPIRS can run along the river bot-
tom, only sticking their noses above the
water now and then for air.

INSANITY appears among animals as
it does among people.

BUCK DEER lose their horns during the
period their young are born, a wise pro-
vision of Nature for their protection
and that of their mothers. The males
are domineering at other times, but
when the new stubs are in the velvet,
self interests caution care.

SNAKES are rarely found above a
4,000-foot altitude in the mountains.
The nights are too cool.

KINGFISHER makes its nest by bur-
rowing a four-inch hole that may extend
twenty feet into a river bank.

PARASITES—There are two outstand-
ing parasites in the bird world, the
cuckoo of Europe and the cowbird of
America. Neither raises its young. Some
80 species of birds serve as hosts to the
eggs of the cowbird.

FORECASTERS—Birds, dogs, cats and
pigs, as well as horses and cattle, and
barnyard fowl have hunches concern-
ing the weather. They show a marked
change in their customary habits before
Something like rheumatism in

people, perhaps.

1%

Any unusual or interesting facts con-
cerning animals will be gratefully re-
ceived. Please mention source. Address
—Animalore, Our Dumb Animals, 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston 15, Mass.

January 1 941;

Animals Contribute, Too

EJFORE the war the hair in the

switch of a cow’s tail was used as a
ﬁlter for air conditioners in Pullman
cars, and for stufﬁng upholstery. Now it
is used in corvettes and battleships.
Camel’s hair brushes for artists are out
of the market, no doubt for the duration
and, as a substitute, hair from the inside
of cattle ears is saved. And what do you
think it costs? Fifteen dollars a pound!

OX blood plasma, it has been dis-
covered, may be added to human plasma
in cases of shock and a sudden drop in
blood pressure. Glue is now being made
from the blood of cattle and hogs and
used in airplane construction. Plastics
also are being made from blood.

The glands of dead animals are used
for medical purposes and are of great
value on the ﬁeld of battle. The feet
produce neatsfoot oil; buttons are made
from horns; glue from tendons; dog food
from spleen and lungs; intestines as sau-
sage containers, and the rumen for tripe.
The contents of the paunch and small in-
testine are taken by gardeners and
farmers who compost it for use as
fertilizer in order to produce still more
food for the allied nations.

—L. E. Eubanks

@

Ancient Dog Lovers

,0 PEOPLE anywhere in the world

have given the dog a higher place
in their aifections than the ancient
Egyptians. The most ardent dog lover of
today cannot surpass them in his love
for “man’s best friend.”

The Egyptian not only loved his dog;
he worshipped him. The dog was re—
garded as a symbol of the divine being
and ﬁgures of the animal appeared on
the walls of temples.

When a dog died the family of the
owner put on mourning as it would for a
human member of the family.

Egyptian philosophers taught that, at
the death of the body, the soul entered
into some animal. The highest honor
that could come to a departing man or
woman was to enter the body of a dog.
Pythagoras, the Greek philosopher,
adopted this teaching. When one of his
disciples died, the teacher held a dog to
the mouth of the dying man, so that his
spirit might enter it. He taught that no
animal could better perpetuate the ﬁne
qualities of man than a dog.

In Ethiopia the inhabitants used to
elect a dog as their king. It was kept in
great state, surrounded by officers and
guards. When the dog fawned on them
it was supposed to be pleased with the
proceedings. When it growled, it disap—
proved of the way the government was
being run and the people acted in ac-
cordance with these decisions.

——Albert A. Rand




 

 

 

 

 

Page 5’6

Unnatural History
By BURLINGHAM SCHURR

EBRUARY 2, is Candlemas Day, as

almost everyone knows, and accord-
ing to tradition, if, on this day, the
ground hog sees its shadow, it is a sign
of six more weeks of winter. However, if
the furry creature does sally forth and
ﬁnds that the sun is hidden, it is sup-
posed to mean an early spring.

But, whether it is to be an early spring
or a late one, February never passes with-
out causing more or less debate as to the
authenticity of the ground hog as a fore-
caster. The truth of the matter is, the
ground hog always plays true to form and
strictly abides to its way of living, never
poking its nose out through the deep
snow to ascertain weather conditions.
The so-called ground hog is not a species
of hog, but is the common woodchuck seen
so often in ﬁeld, meadow and open wood-
land during the warm summer months.
Through the warm spring days into the
summer and autumn, the woodchuck feeds
on tender and choice vegetation and, as
the time approaches for the weather to
become cooler and frosty, the animal
takes on fat and its fur becomes more
heavy. When winter sets in, the wood-
chuck is snugly curled up in a bed of
dried grass in a pocket down at the ex-
treme end of a burrow, where it spends
the whole winter in very pronounced
hibernation. The creature has no liking
for cold weather and will not awaken
from its long winter sleep until warm
days have actually arrived. So, under-
standing the true habits of this creature,
we are led to the realization that this
ground-hog “stuff and nonsense” must

be mere superstition, without any basis
of fact. '

Information of the right sort and ac-
tual facts regarding animal life, prove
more interesting and worth while than
mere guesswork and exaggerated stories.
There is considerable matter being writ-
ten today, treating on nature subjects
that give to bird and animal, character-
ization of speech and endeavor on a par
with human life. Some of the material
makes it pronouncedly evident that the
writers are looked upon by the general
reading public as authorities in the ﬁeld
of nature, a great wrong is being done
in cheating our nation’s youth of the
truth regarding wild life, and of estab-
lishing realization of the necessity for
conservation of the things in nature. It
is time to take a stand against these
writers of “unnatural history,” and as
the late Theodore Roosevelt did, “call the
bluff of the nature fakers.”

 

Burlingham Schurr, author of this article, is the
Well—known naturalist and director of the Museum
of Natural History and Art, Holyoke Public Library,
Iiolyoke, Mass.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

ANIMAL AND

Benjamin Franklin, on hearing of the
accidental death of a squirrel owned by
his friend Miss Georgiana Shipley, wrote
a twenty-three-line epitaph for the
animal. In his letter accompanying the
poem he added that it was much more
respectful than a brief elegy which
follows:

Here Skugg
Lies snug
As a bug

In a rug.

Hollywood is now experiencing lion-
power shortage for the latest version of
"Quo Vadis.” In one scene Nero throws
Christians to thirty-ﬁve of the animals.
The director claims that victims and
beasts are about equally diﬂicult to ob-
tain.

Incitatus, favorite horse of the Roman
Emperor Caligula, was honored by his
master with the rank of Consul and Co-
regent. This was no empty title, either,
for he lived like a king, drank and ate
from golden utensils and slept in an
ivory manger.

The WACS recently swore in a feline
beauty, ofﬁcially credited with having
joined to relieve a St. Bernard dog for
undercover work with the WOOF. It
is understood that the new WACAT is

now a "puss-in-boot” training.

A nationally known columnist reports
a pair of parrots who sing together.
Their repertoire includes "Nearer My
God to Thee” and "Moonlight and
Roses.” The older bird is credited with
the knowledge of three languages and
all of the bugle calls.

A little yellow hen in Finschafen, New
Guinea, is a living air raid warning.
When she hears the drone of enemy
bombers, she clucks until her brood of
ﬁve chicks are sheltered beneath her
wings.

Here in America another hen is doing
her bit in a big, if not entirely original,
way. Her name is Rosemary and though
little more than a pullet, she consistently
lays double-yolk eggs. She recently pro-
duced a four-ounce egg. To appreciate
fully this feat, weigh an ordinary egg.

—— I ack Pearson

February 1944

 

 

OVER THE AIR

A weekly radio program devoted to ani-
mals may be heard each Tuesday morning
at l0:45 over Springfield radio station
WSPR—l270 on your radio dial. This pro-
gram is presented by Charlene B. Kibbe
and sponsored by the Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Programs will be as follows:

February l—"Animals in the News."

February 8 — "Emergency Care and
Treatment of Animals."

February l5—"True Dog Stories.ll
February 22—"Animals in General."
February 29—"Understanding Our Ani-

mails."

 

 

 

 

 

 

Origin of the Cat’s
“Nine Lives”

ATS, during the Middle Ages, were

subject to severe persecution and

torture, particularly if they belonged to
supposed wizards or witches.

In those days cats were believed to be
the emissaries of the devil and were said
to deserve whatever rough treatment was
the lot of their owner. It was at this time
that the nine-life idea began.

With their supple abdominal walls and
their ability to land on their feet, cats
were able to stand punishment that would
nearly kill a human being.

It was believed that because the cats
of so—called witches withstood harsh
treatment they were in league with the
powers of darkness.

—All Pets Magazine

@

Frogs
By MARTIN CHESLEY

We are the featherless fowl of the marshes,
Winging our way through the deep
lagoons;
We are the webfoot birds of the rushes,
We are the freckled and motley buffoons.

We are the nightingales down in the sedges,
Moaning sonatas as solemn as theirs;

We are the owls of the river-bank ledges,
We are the cuckoos of aqueous lairs.

We are the birds of the damp and the
puddles,
Downless relations of coveys and doves,
Thumping our fiddles in nebulous huddles;
We are the frogs that the leprechaun
loves.

While they go soaring over the beaches,
We must sit shivering down in our bags;

Our aspiration is less than our reach is;
We proletarians, we are the frogs.

 

Reprinted by special permission of The. Saturday
Evening Post, copyright 1943, by The Curtis Publish-
ing Company.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 91;

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Animals in History and Religion
By M. H. MORGAN

HE Roman god, Jupiter, known as

Zeus by the Greeks, was always

portrayed with an eagle, his strong-
winged messenger, beside him. The
condor, or thunder-bird, of South Amer-
ica, was symbolized in all priestly cere-
monies, while in Central America, the
eagle became a part of the rain cere-
monies of the Pueblo Indians. In Italy,
the eagle was the chief Roman symbol,
later adopted by the German emperors
who claimed to be the successors of the
Caesars. The double-headed eagle was
used in Russian and Austrian coats—of—
arms. In 1782, the eagle became the
emblem of the United States.

The Egyptian vultures were often
called Pharaoh’s chickens, because they
appeared so frequently in Egyptian hiero-
glyphics. The god, Horus, of Egypt was
represented by a hawk. The Egyptian
god, Osiris, was shown with a falcon on
his head. In Greece, the falcon was con-
sidered a messenger of Apollo, and the
owl was venerated as being sacred to the
goddess of wisdom, Athena.

Early Egyptians believed the soul to be
composed of ﬁve parts, one of which was
a bird, whose ofﬁce work was to notify
the body when the soul desired again to
occupy it. In‘Japan, pigeons are released
at funerals to guide the spirit on its long
journey, and, speaking of journeys, it
was Father Noah who ﬁrst used a raven
in an effort toward a happy landing, and
when it failed to function, a dove or
pigeon, with its greater powers of ori—
entation, was employed in the land quest
of the Ark.

Whenever birds, wings or even feathers

Alaskan Mascots Win Fame

HEN American and Canadian

forces occupied Kiska Island, the
Aleutians base was not entirely deserted.
One “prisoner” fell into Allied hands: a
ﬁne Alsatian whose Japanese name is un-
known, but who was promptly rechrist-
ened “Charlie Kiska,” and became a prime
favorite among the men of the new
garrison.

Nor was Charlie in sole possession of
the island following the enemy’s secret
evacuation. In fact, United States naval
men claim that one of their personnel had
ofﬁcially occupied Kiska before the arrival
of the army. This was none other than
Seaman “X,” a small brown and white
mongrel, who had been the mascot of the
American radio and weather station
there. Left behind when the Japanese
absconded with his ten fellow prisoners-
of—war, X—short for Explosion—greeted
his Allied rescuers with enthusiastic

YGIDS- —W. J. Banks

are used as symbols, the higher spiritual
forces—those of Fire and Air—are in-
dicated. Wings adorned the Cherubim
on the Mercy Seat of the Hebrews, and
colossal ones overshadowed it in Solo-
mon’s Temple. There were the Winged
Sphinx, winged bulls and winged lions
in eastern theology. Saint Matthew has
been shown as a winged man; Saint Luke,
a winged ox; Saint Mark, a winged lion
and Saint John, a winged eagle—their
wings symbolic of a spiritual entity.

Feathers are placed on prayer sticks
of the Pueblo Indians, and the sticks are
then put in the ﬁelds in an appeal to
unseen powers for good crops. Feathers
adorn their celestial headbands and they
wear celestial plumes, and feathers were
ﬁrst placed on arrows because of their
supposed spiritual direction.

Ravens were chosen as messengers to
convey food to the prophet Elijah at the
brook Cherith; but to pagan northern
Europe, they were known as messengers
of the god Odin. ‘

The serpent, symbolized in the dread-
ful serpent worship of all primitive coun-
tries, was evidently the python, supposed
to be the tempter of Eve, in partaking of
the apple of knowledge, and to the python,
women of the central bush countries of
Africa still pay homage when desiring
children.

The lion, because of its speed, strength
and courage, held a prominent place in
primitive symbolism; and, even today,
it is heraldic of many nations, among
which is Great Britain. For many years
the lion and eagle held important places
in pagan pantheons.

@

 

M 0.3; 1944

' His Guardian Angel

OUDGIE” is Arabian for wonderful.

It is also the name as well as the
complimentary description of a tiny
African monkey who crawled up the
sleeve of Private Floyd Steward, whose
life she saved three times in North
Africa.

During an aerial bombardment sev-
eral days after the two had met, her
adopted master was buried beneath a pile
of debris. While a group of soldiers
searched the strewn wreckage for hidden
victims of the attack, they came upon
Boudgie, loudly screaming, evidently to
attract attention. Her loud cries of gib-
berish resulted in the discovery and
eventual res-cue of the injured marine.

On another occasion she saved not only
the life of Steward but also the lives of
fourteen of his buddies. As the group
stood poised at a desert water hole pre-
paring to quench their thirst, the desert-
wise Boudgi-e set up a crescendo chatter
of garbled monkey talk that served to
warn the thirsty men. A test proved the
water had been poisoned.

When Private Steward became lost for
days in Africa, it was Boudgie, his lone
companion, who, wise to the desert,
guided him in his selection of the proper
fruits and berries to be eaten.

Today she’s home, at her master’s
residence in Los Angeles, where she
proudly displays her North African cam-
paign ribbon, which she wears on her
miniature G. I. uniform. And the reason
she is at her master’s home and not at
his side as he ﬁghts in some far-off battle-
ﬁeld, is that she was recently given a
disability discharge.

—Rcmd0lph M acFarlan

.‘4

 




 

January 1941,

"STUKA" SAYS A GOOD-BY
"Stuka." mascot of the crew of the Flying
Fortress, "Memphis Belle." takes a last look
at England from the waist-gunner's window
before the departure of the bomber for the
United States. after completing 25 missions
against the enemy. Holding her is Capt.
James H. Verinis. co-pilot. of New Haven.
Conn. The entire crew returned home to

aid in bond-selling drives.

@

“Mitzi” Knows Her Sects
By LEW YORK

SO FAR, science has not discovered any

scent emanating from a person that
would stamp him as belonging to one or
the other of the world’s many religious
sects—but Mitzi has.

Mitzi, a pet dog owned by the Rev.
Merle Townsend, of Detroit, Mich., is
strictly a Methodist, is aware of that
fact and, what is more, can tell a
Methodist from any other denomination
by a mere sniff. This was revealed re-
cently when the Rev. Townsend was as-
signed to a new pulpit in a different town
to which he had moved his family. Came
Sunday morning, and the entire family
went to church, except Mitzi, who, it
must be assumed, was out getting ac-
quainted with the neighborhood canines.
However, when she did get home and
found the family missing, she knew
where they had gone and went out to ex-
plore the town’s churches.

The ﬁrst one the little dog came to,
she entered; and to the consternation and
lifted eyebrows of the oldsters and the
giggles of the youngsters in the congre-
gation, pattered up the aisle to the pul-
pit, sniffed inquiringly at the pastor’s
pants’ leg, and pattered right out again.

It was, as Mitzi well knew, a Congrega—
tional smell—not a Methodist!

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Freaks of Nature
By F. J. WORRALL

HE TOUCAN, one of the most inter-

esting birds of the tropics, has an
enormous bill shaped like a lobster claw
and marked with gay colors, a ﬂat
feather-like tongue, notched at the sides,
and a ball and socket joint which at—
taches the tail to the body. Another
peculiarity is that the eye has a double
iris of green and yellow in a blue orbit
and is surrounded by a patch of orange
skin. Its black and green plumage is
marked with red, white, blue and orange.
The ordinary toucan, which is about two
feet long, is found mostly in the Amazon
valley although there are some species
in Central America and Mexico.

The toucan’s diet consists of insects
and reptiles. It is also fond of bananas
and oranges and it does considerable
damage to orange orchards in the tropics.
It builds its nest in a hollow tree and
the eggs arewhite.

Another strange creature is the tor-
pedo-ﬁsh which has a set of electric bat-
teries. They are always wired and ready
for use in Southern waters.

The electric eel of South America has
the same power of generating electricity.
If used too frequently, its powers be-
come impaired and a rest is necessary
before it is regained. The largest species
are found on the Atlantic coast from
Cape Cod south, some of them reaching
four feet in length and weighing nearly
two hundred pounds.

This system of electric cells on its
sides, near the head, are not only used
to defend itself but also to stun and kill
smaller animals on which it feeds. Other-
wise it would starve, for it neither moves
fast enough nor does it have a mouth
suited to catching or biting prey. Its
body is smooth and ﬂat with a tapering
tail to which ﬁns are attached.

Many mysterious cases of drowning in
Southern waters have been attributed
to the stunning effect of these shocks.

@
Grey Dawn

Grey Dawn—the promise of a perfect day—

Lasting its few brief hours, to slip away

Softly as it had come—and silently—

Into the afterglow; its frailty

Too exquisite to hold for long—the breath

Of Life Eternal, triumphing o’er death . . .

Somewhere beyond the sunset’s star-strewn
way

Grey Dawn has flamed into the perfect day.

To Grey Dawn. a. beloved Bedlington Terrier
By Claire Ellegood Smith

Page 9

Speak, F idol

THE subject of talking dogs has long

been one that an amused public has
enjoyed hearing about. Jokes concerning
verb-vaulting canines are plentiful and
oft repeated. But historical records show
that Prince, Rags, and Queenie may yet
have the last laugh (ﬁguratively speak-
ing) on the tailwagger—taunting gag-
sters.

For an historical research reveals that
a dog that could actually bark about thirty
words was once owned by a Saxon
peasant. And when this dog’s ability
was attested to by one Leibnitz (presum-
ably Gottfried von Leibnitz, the noted
German philosopher) the fact becomes all
the more worthy of acceptance.

The dog’s pronunciation was not, of
course, very clear, and he could only re-
peat a word after being patiently coached
by the Saxon’s son.

It is probable that some defect in the
throat or tongue gave the dog his re-
markable ability to mimic human words.

Leibnitz himself, heard the dog speak
and it so impressed him that he wrote a
letter about it to the ofﬁcials at the Royal
Academy of France.

—Verii01i Howard

«S

Home Again

0 TIME for frisking on misty
moors or dozing in cozy kitchens
these hectic days, even back in her own
country. “Stuka,” mascot of the famous
crew of the battle-scarred Flying For-
tress “Memphis Belle,” knowingly con-
sults Sperry ﬂight instruments and, as
usual, captures the spotlight for herself.
As ocean hopper, “Stuka” is eligible for
“Short Snorter” membership, and as a
genuine Army ﬂyer—actual combat mis-
sion excepted—she is entitled to wear a
replica of the regulation United States
Army “dog tag.”

    

"STUKA" CONSULTS INSTRUMENTS

 




 

 

 

 

Page 61;

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Beloved Mascot of a College .

F a tradition may be called beautiful
then there is beauty in the love and
devotion shown by students of Texas

Agricultural and Mechanical College over
the past twelve years for a plain, un-
pedigreed member of the canine family,
a female dog, almost black, named “Re-
veille,” but affectionately called “Rev”
by the student body.

Like her date of birth, Rev’s bloodline
is obscure. She was picked up one night
in 1931, by some A. & M. boys on a road
south of the campus and taken to a
dormitory where a leg hurt was dressed
and she was allowed to remain. Soon
Rev was able to go to Sbisa Hall (the
mess hall) and rustle her own food, and
it was not long before she began to roam
over the entire campus, bedding down at
night where she chose. If she happened
to pick some boy’s bed, it was up to him
to sleep with her or ﬁnd other quarters.

When the band would play, Rev would
frolic in and out of the band formation.
Firmly established as the mascot of the
Texas Aggies, Rev made trips with the
cadet corps, having a Freshman detailed
to see that she made the trip and re-
turned safely.

Twelve or thirteen years is a long time
as dogs go, so students at A. & M. decided

Coast Guard Sea Dog

A U. S. Coast Guard cutter swings
around, heads out to sea for another
trip into the war zone—and with her
goes a dog. He stands on the bow sniff-
ing the air like a Gloucesterman smelling
rain. He runs aft, pausing to sniff a
coiled line, to go below and see what’s
cookin’ with the cooks. Wherever he
goes he’s welcome.

He livens off watch hours in the fo’c’sle;
a gold-laced sleeve in the wardroom mess
may furtively slip him a bite; he’s some-
thing warm to put a hand on during
watch on a raw, cold night. He’s part of
men’s lives and is recognized as such;
twice within recent months, Coast
Guardsmen have been honored for im-
perilling their lives to rescue a dog.
From Singapore to Reykjavik, wherever
Coast Guardsmen have gone or are going,
he’s been or is going. He’s as salty as
“Blow the man down.” A mascot, like a
barnacle, is a part of the ship.

When the ship heads into port, he’s
on the bow again, snifﬁng the land
breeze. Like every sailor, he’s content as
long as he’s out, but when he heads in he
gets “channel fever” and can’t get ashore
fast enough. And so, in the ﬁrst party
of Coast Guardsmen to come ashore you’ll
probably ﬁnd him, swaying a little as he
gets his land legs.

to preserve Rev’s likeness on canvas for
the Texas Aggies of future years.

The way was opened when the WAGS
division of Dogs for Defense was created.
Any owner could purchase a rank for
his dog in the WAGS, the cost running
from $1 for a private to $100 for a gen-
eral, with similar costs and correspond-
ing designations of naval rank.

The highest was none too good for
Reveille and a drive was launched among
the students to raise necessary funds. It
was agreed at the time that more than
$100 should be collected. Reveille needed
a collar on which her rank could be
shown, and the remainder would be de-
voted to having her portrait done in oils.

Miss Marie Haines, local artist with
nation-wide recognition, was chosen to
paint Rev’s portrait. Her work exceeded
even the fondest hopes of the cadet spon-
sors. Temporarily placed in the Library,
Rev’s painting is viewed at all hours of
the day by cadets and other visitors.

“Reveille is more than an animal,”

stated Dr. Frank C. Bolton, acting presi-
dent of the Texas A. & M. College. “She
is a tradition. To many a homesick fresh—
man, Reveille represents the dog he left
at home; that dumb friend that could
always be depended on for a wag of the

d

April 1944

By G. B. WINSTEAD

tail and a friendly bark no matter how
dark the clouds or how negligent were
other friends. Reveille was a tangible,
visible connecting link with a carefree
boyhood. She has rendered a service that
we have chosen to commemorate.”

This commemoration came in the nick
of time for Rev died from old age on
January 18, of this year. But, although
she may be gone, her memory will linger
on at Texas A. & M. A brochure is being
assembled by the Student’s Activities
ofﬁce, which will contain many pictures
taken of her and press clippings, in ad-
dition to a reproduction of the now his-
toric oil painting.

The entire student body, some 2,600
boys, and the school band marched to
Kyle Field to give Reveille an appropriate
military funeral. Present also were
many Army Specialized Training Pro-
gram boys, former Texas Aggies who
knew Rev when they were in school, and
several hundred civilians.

Funeral services for Reveille were held
on the football ﬁeld and she was buried
just outside the stadium where the thou-
sands who attend future athletic con-
tests will pass her grave. In time a metal
fence will enclose the plot and an appro-
priate monument will be erected.

 

Ofﬁcial U. S. Marine Corps Photo
STAND AT EASE. SERGEANT!
Stimy at attention. Sergeant Too. a three-month-old dog. recently adopted by a
Marine Aircraft Group at its South Paciﬁc base. hears First Sergeant Blake Ferris.
Detroit. Michigan. read his sergeant's warrant. while his owner. Private Fabian-
Gutierrez. Monrovia. California. looks on approvingly.-

 




Pilof of pa’rrol airship supervises loading ‘ Carrier pigeon ’rakes off wi’rh a message
of crafe of six Navy homing pigeons for use . . , giving ’rhe posi’rion of +he 'l'wo U. S. Navy
if radio is unsafe. . , balloonisfs shown here.

In a T-2 Blimp on convoy du’rY. Jrhe co-Pilo’r ' I i V A H 35..- . i ‘ ' ‘ ii ‘ . ' i i. ' V . ‘ i ' Pigeons mus+ be carefully released in order
and radioman lace a messa e fube on ' p e“ _ ‘ ‘, ' , . ‘ ' +ha+ ’rhe will nol' be cau hf in +he sl'rong
I? 9 . . _ 7 _ , . Y . 9

pigeon's leg. . . __ . ' . l'. A 1 ‘ .5 . . . wmd.

This homing pigeon was judged bes’r pigeon in +he Unifed
Sl'a’res. He flew 500 miles a’r be’r’rer fhan 60 miles per hour.

F YOU hear a soldier say that he \ber of the Pigeon Interceptor ommand, you
will know, of course, that it is "gag.” Yet our enemies would 0 well to have
such an arm or service because the l . eon is helping the Allies to win the War.
American bred pigeons are doing a -headed and hazardous job of carrying mes—
sages right under the very noses of our enei ies. By means of a message holder attached to a
pigeon’s leg he serves as a very efﬁcient an, peedy messenger. Some have attained the speed
of a mile a minute while in ﬂight. an ﬂy ﬁfteen hours continually. All are trained
by the United States Army.
The Pigeoneers (men selected to trai he birds) are the soul of kindness and consider—
ation. They are required to be men of charai‘ er; they must likewise be neat in appearance.
They must be patient, yet ﬁrm, in enforci discipline among their charges. The Pigeoneer
is the bird’s closest friend; he spends hours ;l ly studying various characteristics of individual
pigeons, catering to their whims, as well as ettling disputes over psrcideS, neStSa etc.
American trained pigeons are actually ﬂying compass. Their accuracy and directional
sense are inherent. By the use of mobilel' ftS our pigeons are trained to return and ﬁnd
their homes, even though the homes may - greatly removed from the spot from where
they saw them last. "YIPPEES" ON PATROL
In the combat zone, the loft may be so 11 camouﬂaged in trees and foliage that the This pigeon is carrying a message from one
Pigeoneer may have to call or whistle to h birds as they ﬂy over to enable them to ﬁnd of fhe U. S. Navy's YP boafs back +o a

the lighting board. ‘ Sec’rion Base. Two pigeons are carried

pigeons in night flights. The pigeon is instinc— aboard +0 relay repor’rs back +o ’rhe home
base when occasron demands.

tively fearful at night and hates to ﬂy. T . eir training for nocturnal work, as well as the
preparation for their return to mobile. lofts; is at present a military secret. It is sufﬁcient to
say that the duty performed for us by thesu feathered friends is a remarkable one.

The Air Corps has recently found th fl'lgeon invaluable. Birds are taken in the planes,
and in the event of a forced landing a pl 011 is used to carry the message of the plane’s
location and other vital information. Thi ‘ervice is extremely valuable because the pith
may be afraid to Y intercept the message and capture the crew.

T. for one, offer the Signal Corps a bi urlflber one salute for the caliber of men that

they have selected as Pigeoneers and for g ing the Allies the ﬁnest winged messengers in OFFICIAL

u. s. NAVY
t
he world. PHOTOGRAPHS

 

 

 

 

 




 

May 191,4

Awards to Duke

HE Massachusetts Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals re-
cently presented three awards to “Duke,”
three-year-old English setter-beagle,
owned by Mr. John J. Melin, Arlington,
Massachusetts, for his outstanding hero-
ism in rescuing two children and a blind
man from the icy waters of Alewife
Brook, in Arlington.

Besides the Society’s highest award, in
the form of a bronze medal presented for
bravery, Duke received a genuine leather
collar, and, in addition, something that
he treasured most of all—a large, juicy
bone, on which the canine hero promptly
proceeded to concentrate all his atten-
tion.

Duke was responsible recently for sav—
ing the lives of two Somerville young—
sters who fell through the ice of Alewife
Brook. He led his master to the spot in
time for the latter to haul them to safety.
This made the dog’s second rescue in a
month. Just prior to that, Duke led his
master in similar fashion to effect the
rescue of a blind man who had stumbled
into the same brook close to the spot
where the children were nearly drowned.
At that time Melin summoned Arlington
police who pulled the blind man from
danger.

In the illustration to the right is shown
Duke with Miss Margaret J. Kearns,
Secretary to Dr. Francis H. Rowley. Miss
Kearns has just made the triple presenta—
tion and Duke’s eyes are expectantly
watching the bone.

HE air seems to be the natural ele-

ment for birds but just the same

ﬂying is something they have to
learn by hard practice. It has been said
that young swallows are able to ﬂy with-
out any teaching or persuasion, but if
this is true, they are very much the ex-
ception. Other young birds learn the
hard way and their parents often have to
use force as well as persuasion to get
them started on their ﬁrst ﬂights. Thus
mother sparrows are sometimes seen
coaxing their youngsters by showing them
bits of food and then carrying it out of
their reach to tempt them into following.
Mot-her storks will push their young off
the edge of the nest or chimney stack
where they are perched. Other birds,
too, give the young ones a push when
persuasion fails and then ﬂy along with
them. Often they will ﬂy under the ﬂut-
tering tyro and give him a boost if he
seems to be losing altitude too rapidly.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Page 95

 

Miss Margaret J. Kearns presents a bone. a collar and a medal.

@

Teaching Birds to Fly

The martins are one species who often
do this. Even when the young birds
get well started, it takes a long while
for them to achieve the perfect control
and skill in the air shown by the adults.
That can be acquired only by constant
practice. That also is the only way in
which they can gain the endurance neces—
sary for the long migration ﬂights they
must soon make. Endurance is equally
necessary for such birds as the martins
who catch their insect food in the air.
The old birds seem to know this and if
one has a chance to watch a colony of
martins, for instance, the parents will be
seen sitting in front of the nests watch—
ing their families circling around in the
air. When they try to light, one of the
parents will push them back into the air
again and do this time after time until
they think the youngsters have really
earned a rest.

—J0hn H. Spice?“

Justice Is Done

UR County Prosecuting Ofﬁcer in
Worcester, Harry C. Smith, has re-
ported an interesting case which illus-
trates how justice is meted out to of-
fenders who permit a dog to be subjected
to unnecessary suffering.

On investigation of the case in ques-
tion, Oﬂ‘icer Smith found that the de—
fendant, while driving his car through a
small village, approached three dogs
playing at the edge of the road.

As he came near the dogs, he deliber-
ately swung his car into them, breaking
the back of one, and continued on down
the road. It was reported that he said
to the two men riding with him, “That’s
the second dog I got this week.”

After questioning, the defendant told
Officer Smith that he did it just for fun.
The Court ﬁned him $50.00 and his driv-
ing license was suspended for sixty days.

Our readers are urged to clip from
“Our Dumb Animals” various articles
and request local editors to republlsh.

 

 




 

Animals9
Apparel
Always

Appropriate

By FRANK CIPOLONE

LMOST every living creature under
Mother Nature’s plan has other
creatures which prey upon it. Each

must avoid the other in order to survive.
The law of the wild, “Eat or be eaten,”
has applied since time immemorial. Only
the strong remain—so goes the old adage.

But animals lacking physical strength
resort, of necessity, to other methods in
order to live their full span. Perhaps, at
some time or another, while on a picnic
or a hike in the woods, you strolled along
a winding path or trail in complete ob-
livion, only to stop suddenly, arrested by
the thought that somehow you were in
the midst of seething activity. Mysterious
signs of life, strangely, try as you might,
undiscoverable. What made the bushes
move, the leaves stir? You hear noise
such as is heard only in the woods,
peculiar, ominous, but where the source?

Certain birds, insects and animals have
been endowed with the power to change
color and blend with their surrounding-s
so perfectly and naturally, it is hard to
distinguish one from the other.

The tree frog is a notable example of
the ability of an animal to adapt its color
to its environment. It is able to change
its color from a very dark hue to a very
light one in about twenty minutes, and
so exactly does it agree in color with the
surface of a stone, a lichen, or the bark

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Page 65

 

This remarkable picture of a iaguar. taken by Joseph M. Ramsey. East Auroral N. Y..
illustrates the natural camouflage with which these animals are endowed.

“7""

of a tree, that often one is not aware of
its presence until he has accidentally
placed his hand on it! Common frogs,
the type that frequent creeks and swim-
ming holes, are likewise protected by the
ability to change color. The transforma-
tion takes place, usually, during impend-
ing danger. The same is true in the case
of certain lizards and snakes capable of
rendering themselves very inconspicuous
by taking advantage of protective colora-
tion.

The color of our American squirrel is
of a reddish brown, usually with a gray-
ish discoloration on the under-portions
of the body. It conforms in body color
with its American habitation. In Eng-
land, the same holds true—the squirrel
has a ruddy brown tint harmonizing with
English countrysides.

With the coming of winter, certain

43

Speed in Nature . . . . . .

AN may pride himself upon his
speed records—in swimming, run-
ning and other sports—but the

fact remains that he is completely out-
classed by his animal friends.

Dolphins, one of the fastest ﬁsh, have
been clocked at about 70 miles an hour,
a tremendous speed when one considers
that the resistance of water is 700 times
that of air. Porpoises, too, are known to
attain such speed.

The sailﬁsh, a type of swordﬁsh, prob-
ably travels fastest of all, nearly 80 miles
an hour. The swordﬁsh has been known
to drive its sword through 20 inches of

.hour.

ship’s hard wood, sheathed with copper!

The frigate bird, a sea bird that is also
called the “man-of-war” bird, is consid-
ered the fastest living creature. It has
been timed at a speed of 240 miles an
The peregrine falcon can travel at
about 200 miles an hour.

The dragon ﬂy is perhaps the fastest
of all insects. It can also come to a sud-
den halt in ﬂight and immediately change
its direction with no change in position.

The speeds of many insects seem much
faster than they really are. A bumble

bee, for example, can’t travel faster than

11 miles an hour; the houseﬂy no faster

species of rabbits change color, thereby
serving a double purpose. They make the
problem of facing the cold much easier,
and their white skins blend with the
snow, making them poor targets to our
would-be hunters.

Probably the most famed example of
an animal harmonizing with its sur-
roundings is found in the chameleon.
This creature of many hues and colors is
originally from Africa, but is now quite
common in our Southern states. So closely
does this member of the lizard family
imitate the picture of nature that it
makes itself literally invisible. The
chameleon, w‘hen frightened, loses or
sheds its tail. Perhaps this is the reason
Mother Nature, in one of her pitying
moods, was more lavish in providing pro-
tection for the animal whose apparel is
truly always appropriate.

By ALAN A. BROWN

than ﬁve miles, and the mosquito about
three. '7

The Mongolian antelope and the
cheetah are the two fastest animals in the
world. Dr. Andrews of the American
Museum of Natural History has seen the
antelopes travel at 60 miles an hour.
“They ran so fast we could not see their
legs any more than you can see the blades
of an electric fan.” The cheetah can top
60 miles an hour for a short distance——
can even go up to 80 in short bursts.

In decided contrast we might mention
the earthworm whose speed has been
timed as .002 miles an hour.

 




 

 

February 1941;

      

""‘fﬂn It”,

   

V14
< {11(1/I/Illuglxl 11 4 U, ‘ ‘ “‘3

OUR DUMB

 
 

ANIMALS

      

\\\ ‘{ no \\\\\\\\\\“\ﬂ§i‘;‘

       

. "I" ~.-»~ §
. ‘ ‘..°~‘-.~\“1u ‘H.
I l .
a! ‘ s 7““ . a?” j 3:“ - , \ ‘ ‘-
r’ . 3 !' é.‘ o N. llb t 1
1’ ﬂ, ~— _ V 4- —- .5 5‘ "-33,! \v; .vCL " \ dug}; “Mir .1
"I ”HZ-'m'lf. / ’ﬁ’lff BEE/SN W L 4, \l\ k
N ' 5' [—7 . 7," ‘ 5’5,- ilbl": '1 I,
r A ' ‘L‘ﬁ‘ 1’; . . \\n 1 5;.“ CLKWZFFTHNH '

 

 

Bear cubs playing in the Park.

Adventures of Bruno

By DORIS DUNCAN

RUNO was a member of the bear family in Yellow-

stone Park. But Bruno was very sad, for he had
been taken from his family which lived in the Zoo.
Even though he could roam about wherever he wanted
to go, he was very lonely. He was lonely for Mother
Bear, Father Bear and the two cubs.

One day Bruno decided to explore his new home.
He saw other bears wandering around. One small bear,
about his size, was climbing a tree, so Bruno decided
to try it, too. At ﬁrst, he didn’t make much progress,
but after trying hard, he got nearly to the t0p.

When he came down he saw some funny looking
things nearby. He had seen the same things at the Zoo
and was told they were called “people.” There were
lots of them all coming toward him, each carrying a
queer black object, which a wise bear later explained
to him was a camera. He heard someone say:

“I think I will take a shot at the little one.”

Bruno’s Mother had told him always to run when he
heard a shot, so he ran as fast as his chubby legs would
carry him. Soon he came to the road, where he saw
bears on the running boards of cars.

Bruno thought he would see if this was any fun. The
ﬁrst time he tried, the car made a terriﬁc noise with

 

what people called a “horn” and scared poor Bruno al-
most to death. This made him even more prejudiced
against the whole human race. However, the next
time, he succeeded, and, sticking his head in the window
was given some candy, just as animals are at the Zoo.

He thought this was great fun. When he had all the
candy he wanted, he went with a mother bear and her
two cubs. They went out by a large building, where
people were throwing good things to eat to the bears.
There was a crowd of people gathered around a truck
which was bringing more bears to the park.

Among these newcomers, Bruno could see his parents
and all at once he was very happy. He had to admit
that people really weren’t so bad after you got to know
them. As had most of its residents, Bruno soon learned
to like Yellowstone and best of all he could share his
joys with his family.

:13

How Well Do You Know Your Cat?

1. How many claws does a cat have altogether, count-
ing all four feet?

2 What odd looking breed of cats has no tail?

3. Is there any cat that has no hair?

4. Are a cat’s whiskers of any use?

5 Why do a cat’s eyes shine in the dark?

6 Why is a cat’s tongue rough?

7 In lapping milk, does a cat curl his tongue up or
down?

8. Of what value to a cat is it that his claws are kept
in pockets when not in use?

9. Of the ﬁve senses, seeing, hearing, smelling, tasting,

and touch, which ones are most highly developed in

a cat?

In what country were cats once held to be sacred?

——Bonm’e Deane Vaughn

10.

d

A Little Girl Ponders
By ANN TOWNSEND NICHOLS

The snow is falling all around,

On the trees and on the ground;

I love to watch each fluffy flake,
They whirl and pretty patterns make.

They seem to form a solid mass,
Falling on the snowy grass;

The trees are bending very low
With their bundles, made of snow.

It I should stand here, very still,

I might be covered like a hill.
Then, would a darling rabbit hop
Up and down my hilly top?

 




, " I172

» - . ﬂ “.3‘.‘ ‘ G ‘7': "‘_ ,“f [.C_;“::l‘_}'.r;',“7~vﬂ;»— -r‘-, 2-, ..~.‘ -.

() U 11’, I) U M B A N I M A L 8 January 191,4

Page 7.?

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Will Europe Be Kind?

Reconstruction after the war is a
problem upon which much attention has
already been focused. The following
question posed by Charles R. Johns,
Secretary, National Canine Defence
League, London, points out that animal
protective societies, the world over, will
have their own problems to solve in war—
torn Europe.

E animal lovers in Britain are won—

dering what the European attitude
to animals will be when the war is over.
We ask ourselves whether the abomina-
tions of war will have created a callous—
ness which may take many years to erad-
icate.

There will not be many domestic pets
left, as they must have been reduced in
numbers as food supplies have decreased.
France is known to be in a lamentable
state of semi-starvation. There will not
be many horses or food animals, for the
Germans will kill or remove them as they
retreat.

The restocking of farms in the liber-
ated countries will be a great problem
and it will have to be done by America
and the British Empire. ‘

It is possible that the liberated peoples
will be so sick of cruelty to their children
and themselves that they will be sensi-
tive on the question of animal suffering,
but does this apply to the nations which
have cultivated callousness and demonia-
cal cruelty in their youth movements?

The reports on young German pris-
oners captured in Italy reveal that a
short period of training in barbaric
cruelty has been more effective in produc-
ing young sadists than generations of
education have produced of mercifulness
amongst the youth of civilized peoples.

It is going to be a difﬁcult problem
to change the attitude of those brought
up in the countries where none of our
own cherished beliefs have been accepted
in the years of twisted thought and base
actions. Yet we must make an effort to
put these things in their right humane
perspective, or else the world will be a
torture chamber for animals and also for
those who mentally suffer with them.

While the sufferings of animals have
been great owing to the war, we must
realize that the pre-war attitude of mind
was preparative and causatory. The
trouble is not alone the war, but the
minds that brought it into operation.

4%

Register your disapproval of the cru-
elty behind trained animal performances
by refusing to be a patron and an eye-
witness of them. '

EDITORIALS

 

 

 

Dogs Are Popular

HAT the American public still loves

its dogs is evidenced from the fact
that a member of the planning commis-
sion staff wants the federal public hous-
ing authority ruling against dogs in gov-
ernment trailer camps rescinded.

Government camps are only 30 percent
occupied, he complains—while private
camps, where dogs are welcome, are ﬁlled
to twice their planned capacity.

It is heart-warming, indeed, to realize
that so many people are willing to put
up with crowding and hardship in order
that they may retain the companionship
of their faithful pets.

iii

Report from Syria

T IS encouraging to learn from a

letter recently received from Mr. N.

B. Matta, in far-off Syria, that the cause

of animals has not been forgotten, despite

the war and political unrest in that part
of the world.

Mr. Matta tells us that he is distribut-
ing literature and has visited forty-seven
villages during the past month, lecturing
before interested groups. He further re-
ports that excellent care is being taken
of sick and injured animals by veteri-
narians in the many army camps in
Lebanon and Syria.

@

Appeal for Sick Animals

E WISH to thank all our friends

who responded to our recent appeal
for old cotton cloth, sheeting and blankets
for use in the cages of the Hospital. Cold
weather and the increased number of
animals hospitalized has necessitated the
use of more blankets and cotton material
in the cages of the various wards in order
that the patients may receive the maxi-
mum in comfort and sanitation during
their period of hospitalization.

A large supply of this material has
already been received, but still more is
needed and if there are others who would
care to send us discarded materials, we
shall indeed be appreciative.

4%

Misplaced Conﬁdence

FEMININE. passenger had boarded
the bus after the lights had gone
out. A tall man standing near her asked
if he could help her ﬁnd a strap.
“Thank you,” she replied, “but I have
already found one.”
“Then I wonder if you would mind
letting go of my necktie.”

More Bound Volumes

E still have bound volumes of Our

Dumb Animals for 1943 on hand.
This book comprises 240 pages, with
200 illustrations of animals and birds.
A most useful and interesting book for-
school libraries and as an aid to pro-
moting humane education. Price $1.00,
postpaid. Write to the Secretary, The
American Humane Education Society,
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston‘15.

:13
Just Dog

HIS dog of which we write was ut-

terly undistinguished except for one ~
thing. He managed to live for sixteen
years, which ,made him better then a
centenarian in the canine world.

The ancestry of this dog was uncer-
tain and his appearance was such that
it moved many to laughter. When he
wagged his tail he wagged his whole
rear with itand that made them laugh
the harder.

This dog knew no tricks and so far
as we observed had not the wit to learn
any. If other dogs invaded his property,
he asked them to leave and if they did
not he fought them. If he was dismissed
from the domain of another dog, he left,
according to code.

He chased woodchucks, this dog, and
sometimes he caught them; at any rate
he kept them out of the garden. He
caught rats sometimes. He followed two
little boys to their games and in their
wanderings and when they no longer
lived at home he seemed to miss them.

Like thousands of other dogs every-
where, he minded his own business and
did the best that he could and seemed to
ﬁnd happiness in the doing of it.

As we said at the beginning, he was
without glamour or distinction.

—Wall Street Journal

 

 

POSTER CONTEST

Once again the Massachusetts.
S. P. C. A. will conduct a Humane
Poster Contest. open to pupils in
elementary schools from grades four
through high school.

Prizes will consist of attractive gold
and silver pins and subscriptions to
OUR DUMB ANIMALS.

AnnouncementsI containing val-
uable information and contest rules,
may be procured by writing the
Society.

Do not attempt to enter the con-
test betore reading the rules.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

-, , _r- ,ag--_-‘ JL—~..__&;.—_-.‘~‘t V '

Page ] 4

 

HOSPITAL STARTS NURSING COURSES

A series of nursing courses has been started at the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital to

+rain women nurses in the care and treatment of sick and injured animals. These coursesI

which have become necessary because of fhe manpower shor’rage. are under the supervision

of Dr. Erwin F. Schroeder. Chieic of Staff. and are available only to women wishing Jro

join the Hospifal staff in a full-time capacity. Shown in the illustration is Dr. C. Lawrence
Blakely instructing the class in "anatomy." the first lesson in the series.

Auxiliary Meeting

HE November meeting of the Spring-

ﬁeld Branch Auxiliary featured a
talk on Humane Education by Miss Laura
A. Daniels, principal of Tapley School.
Miss Daniels presented an outstanding
program and Miss Harriet Higgins, art
supervisor in Springﬁeld elementary
schools, showed colored slides of the
program being carried out in cooperation
with the Auxiliary.

Leading up to Miss Daniels’ speech,
Executive Vice-President Eric H. Hansen
addressed the meeting on Humane Educa-
tion as a means of ﬁghting child de-
linquency. .

Mrs. Paul M. Kellogg, chairman of the
Humane Education Committee, was in
charge of the program and introduced
the speakers. Mrs. Robert R. Miller,
president, was in charge of the meeting.

Following the program, a coffee hour
was enjoyed, with Mrs. Harry B. Ellis
serving as chairman of the hostesses.
Assisting hostesses were Mrs. Edward
L. Stoughton, Mrs. Frank A. Schlesinger,
Mrs. Walter B. Cruttenden and Mrs.
Sidney W. Stevens.

Quick Response
I HAVE such easy and good success in

training my cats and dogs to come~

home promptly when called that I felt I
should pass on the information for other
pet owners. Here it is.

As soon as I procure a new pet, I
make it a practice, every time I summon
it for food, whether inside or not, to
carry a tiny bell in my hand and ring it
a few times. At ﬁrst, I even continue to
tinkle it when my pet starts to eat in
order to impress it with the sound and
its connection with food.

Result—no matter how engrossed in
play, when I stand at the door and ring,
pussie or doggie bounds in. His stomach
answers! It is so much easier than
shouting the name of a pet all over the
neighborhood. That method disturbs the
neighbors and only too frequently re-
sults in a reluctant arrival on the part
of the pet, or in some instances, a tedious
hunt throughout the vicinity.

—Florence Osmun

January 1 941+

Unusual Pet Treated

N OCELOT from the British West

Indies, owned by a corporal at West-
over Field, is one of the most unusual
pets yet to be treated at the Springﬁeld
Branch of the Angell Memorial Animal
Hospital. It is a lovable little creature
and captured the fancy of the entire
staff.

The ocelot, Mouser by name, was given
to Corp. John P. Gillespie of the 442nd
ﬁghting squadron, Westover Field, when
he was stationed in Trinidad.

A member of the Bengal tiger family,
the ocelot usually bears two cats in each
litter, but Mouser was the sole one when
he was born. He was only 12 days old
when acquired by Corporal Gillespie, but
the four months of his young life have
been active ones, for he has traveled 1,400
miles by transport plane and 4,000 miles
by train.

Fortunately, Mouser has a small ap-
petite, since raw meat is the only food
he accepts. He was brought up on milk,
fed through the medium of a bottle and
nipple. Mouser’s stay at the S. P. C. A.
Hospital was brought about by his care-
less swallowing of a ﬁsh line, but the
ministrations of his veterinarian, Dr.
Harold L. Smead, were successful and he
was returned to Westover Field.

At four months of age, Mouser is a
playful and affectionate pet; a few more
months and his wild nature may aSsert
itself. When that time comes he may
join his brethren in Bronx Zoo, but
Corporal Gillespie will be saddened, for
he has great affection for Mouser, an af-
fection that the ocelot seems to recipro-
cate.

Mouser suffered from the heat while he
was in the South, as he has acquired a
winter coat, but it will be handy this
winter if he is still stationed at West-
over Field, or possibly sent to New York
to live with other “tiger cats.”

 

DR. SMEAD. "cow. """"" AND
OCELOT

 




 

J unitary 1944

Retired Workers’ Fund

E are receiving gifts to the Ameri—
can Humane Education Society as a
trust fund, the interest to be used for the

beneﬁt of ﬁeld missionaries and others ,

whohave spent their lives in promoting
humane education. Already several cases
have come to our attention and are being
relieved in this way. We will welcome
your contribution to this fund.

Please make checks payable to Albert
A. Pollard, Treasurer, American Humane
Education Society, 180 Longwood Ave-
nue, Boston 15, and specify that the
amount contributed is for the Humane
Education Trust Fund.

:13

Liberal Annuity Rates
ADVANTAGES

No coupons to clip, no papers to sign and
mail. You simply receive your checks at
stated intervals—that’s all there is to it.

Annuity agreements are frequently used
to provide for one’s or another’s future
years.

It is no experiment. There is no anxiety.
No ﬂuctuations in rate of income. No
waste of your estate by a will contest.

a: a: a: a:

A pamphlet giving necessary information
gladly sent upon request.

The Massachusetts S. P. C. A., or the
American Humane Education Society, 180
Longwood Avenue, [Boston 15.

The management of our invested funds is
a guarantee of the security of these Life
Annuities.

RATES OF MEMBERSHIP IN

THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
OR THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.

Active Life $100 00 Active Annual $10 00

Associate Life 50 00 Associate Annual 5 00

Sustaining Life 20 00 Annual 1 00
Children’s $0 75

Checks and other payments may be sent to ALBERT
A. POLLARD, Treasurer. 180 Longwood Avenue.
Boston 15.

()UR DUMB ANIMALS

HOSPITAL REPORT FOR NOVEMBER
At 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston 15

Cases entered in Hospital ..... 903
Cases entered in Dispensary .. . 1,593
Operations ................. 266

At Springﬁeld Branch, 53 Bliss Street

Cases entered in Hospital ..... 231
Cases entered in Dispensary . . . 787
Operations .................. 107

At Attleboro Clinic, 3 Commonwealth Ave.

Cases entered ............... 60
Totals
Hospital cases since opening
Mar. 1, 1915 .............. 226,825
Dispensary cases ............ 569,775
Total .......... 796,600
NOVEMBER REPORT OF THE OFFI-

CERS OF THE MASSACHUSETTS
S. P. C. A., WITH HEADQUARTERS AT
BOSTON, METHUEN, SPRINGFIELD,
PITTSFIELD, ATTLEBORO, WENHAM,
HYANNIS, WORCESTER, FITCHBURG,
NORTHAMPTON, HAVERHILL, HOL-
YOKE, ATHOL, COVERING THE EN-
TIRE STATE.

Miles traveled by humane ofﬁcers 13,014
Cases investigated ............ 224
Animals examined ............ 5,739
Animals placed in homes ....... 461
Lost animals restored to owners . 74
Number of prosecutions . . . . . . 6
Number of convictions . . . . . . 6
Horses taken from work ........ 5
Horses humanely put to sleep . . . 41
Small animals humanely put to
sleep ..... . ................ 1,559
Horse auctions attended ........ 14
Stockyards and Abattoirs
Animals inspected ............ 69,380
Cattle, swine and sheep humanely
put to sleep . .- .............. 47

 

 

TO OUR

tion with any other similar Society.

FORM OF

property. describe the property).

given gladly.

 

 

In making your will. kindly bear in mind that the corporate title ot our Society is "The Massachu-
setts Society tor the Prevention ot Cruelty to Animals": that it is the second incorporated (March.
I868) Society tor the Prevention ot Cruelty to Animals in the country. and that it has no connec-

Any bequest especially intended tor the benetit ot the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital. should.
nevertheless. be made to the Massachusetts Society tor the Prevention ot Cruelty to Animals "tor
the use ot the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital." as the Hospital is not incorporated but is the
property of that Society and is conducted by it.

I give to The Massachusetts Society tor the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (or to the
American Humane Education Society). the sum of ................ dollars. (or. it other

The Society's address is I80 Longwood Avenue. Boston l5. Mass. Intormation and advice will be

FRIENDS

BEQUEST

 

 

 

 

Page 13

 

 

OVER THE AIR

A weekly radio program devoted to ani-
mals may be heard each Tuesday morning
at |0:45 over Springﬁeld radio station
WSPR—I270 on your radio dial. This pro-
gram is presented by Charlena B. Kibbee
and sponsored by the Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Programs will be as follows:
January 4—"Animals in the News."
and

January || — "Emergency Care

Treatment of Animals."
January I8—"True Dog Stories."

January 25—"Animals in General.’I

 

 

 

 

 

 

Wild Man Of the Woods

HE orang outang’s chief claim to dis-

tinction lies in its possession of great
and inhuman strength, and in its re-
semblance to man. Otherwise, it is a dull
and slothful animal.

These anthropoid apes are now con—
ﬁned mostly or entirely to the low,
swampy forests of Borneo and Sumatra.
The orang is about two-thirds as large
as the gorilla. The adult male stands
about four feet high, and may weigh as
much as 250 pounds.‘ It has small ears,
eyes, and nose, brown skin, and long,
sparse, reddish-brown hair which falls
over the forehead and backward over
the neck. The face, hands, and feet are
bare.

Its legs are very short and the arms
are disproportionately and comically very
long—reaching to the ankle, at those in-
frequent times when the animal assumes
an erect posture. The orang outang
never walks erect, except when using its
hands to support itself by holding to
branches overhead, or when it is attacked.

This ape is chieﬂy herbivorous and
lives almost exclusively in the tops of
forest trees, where it constructs a tem-
porary shelter in the form of a crude
nest in which to sleep, made of leaves
and branches.

In captivity, it has been trained to
wear clothes and amusingly imitate the
actions of men. But, in its native state,
it lives up to the meaning of the Malay
word, orang outang—“the wild or savage
man in the woods or forest.” And so,
the orang is popularly called “The wild
man of the woods.”

The male orangs have a longish beard.
But the chief resemblance to man in gen-
eral appearance is greatest and most
striking in the females, and especially in
the young animals. The head of the baby
orang is not very different from that
of the average human child.

——Max Meredith

 




 

 

 

 

Page 38

OUR DUMB ANIM'ALS

Outline on Humane Education

By LAURA A. DANIELS
Principal, Tarley School, Springﬁeld, Mass.

N IMPORTANT objective in Hu-
A mane Education is to develop an
attitude of reverence for life. To

this end, the following aims, activities, and
outcomes should serve as a guide.

I. Aims
1. To foster a feeling of kindness
toward all living creatures.

2. To develop a sense of responsi-
bility for the comfort, care, and
protection of all animals depend-
ent upon us.

3. To gain some knowledge of the
habits and needs of animals who
live around us.

II. Suggested activities
1. Study pets in school.

Provide a suitable place.
Provide proper food, warmth,
rest, clean water.
Provide for proper cleanliness.
Observe and study the animal’s
habits.
Make rules! for the animal’s care
—at school or at home.
Share in the care 'of the pet.
Help to bring pets to school as
suggested below:

crickets mice
grasshoppers cat
moths rabbit
silk worms guinea pigs
carrot cater- hen

pillars dog
polliwogs

2. Feed birds and squirrels.
Learn what foods are suitable.
Study natural habitat.
Put up feeding stations and keep
them supplied.

3. Make a census of all animals to
be found in the district.
Visit these animals, with permis-
sion of owners, and under su-
pervision of teachers.

4. Have a pet show.
Provide proper cages for pets.
Keep pets quiet and comfortable.
Have a toy animal show.
Write to S. P. C. A. for Rules
for Pet Show.

Make Visits or excursions to
Forest Park

Natural History Museum

A farm

Animals of the district

Eastern States Exposition, if
available.

S. P. C. A. Hospital, by commit-
tees or classes.

Library, to select books of ani-
mal stories.

Find where some wild animals
live—grasshoppers, birds, water
life, etc.

0!

I“... V“...

III.

IV.

6.
7.

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

Construct animal habitats.

Model, paint,
(posters).

draw animals

Gather animal stories.
Stories read.
True stories.

List good animal story books.
Found at home or school.
Found at library.

Make books of animal stories.
Told by children or adults.
Found in books.

Photograph pets.
Photographic contests by school,
city, state or S. P. C. A. '

Study motion pictures of ani-
mals.

Audio-Visual aids ofﬁce.

S. P. C. A.

Audubon Society.

Broadcast true animal stories.
Cooperate with S. P. C. A. in
broadcasts.

Plan assemblies.
Write letters to invite speakers
from S. P. C. A., Audubon So-

ciety, public library, etc.

Animals in wartime

1.

Study animals’ needs and care.
Get information for S. P. C. A.

Animals’ contribution in war

emergency.

Red Cross dogs for “First Aid.”
Dogs for defense and sentry
duty.

Training of dogs for war service.

Outcomes

1.

Children should keep hands off
strange animals.

When necessary to handle ani-
mals, it should be done properly.

Animals should be fed regularly
with proper food.

Animals should have rest and
proper warmth.

Animals should be kept clean
and comfortable.

All life should be conserved.

The S. P. C. A. should be noti-
ﬁed when injured or stray ani-
mals are found.

Animals, especially when fright-
ened, should be handled by a
person who is calm.

A veterinarian should be called
for sick or injured animals.

February 1944

10. In war emergency, each pet
should be conﬁned to a room and
provided with food and water;
large animals in the country
should be freed in a large in-
closure.

11. A feeling of friendliness, not of
fear, for the common animals
about us should be fostered.

&

A Kind Deed

DURING Thursday night, January
6th, snow had fallen. It was heavy
and wet. Friday morning on the way
to his ofﬁce, a citizen of Boston, Massa-
chusetts, observed that numerous pigeons
in an alley near Congress Street were un—
able to ﬂy on account of the ice on their
wings. They were crouched close to the
pavement apparently almost dead. En—
tering the ofﬁce he told his fellow em—
ployees about the birds. Mr. Albert Sul-
livan listened and then quietly hunted
for a large box into which he gathered
all the ice-coated pigeons and took them
into one of the warm rooms. There he
left the birds until their wings thawed.
Then released from the box, they ﬂew,
may we not believe, gratefully away.

:13
@1112 Earth» at merry nr

5111mm Quintana: Eragur

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
ERIC H. HANSEN, Executive Vice-President
WILLIAM A. SWALLOW, Secretary

PLEDGE

I will try to be kind to all living crea-
tures and try to protect them from cruel
usage.

The American Humane Education So-
ciety will send to every person who forms
a Band of Mercy of thirty members, and
sends the name chosen for the Band and
the name and post-ofﬁce address of the
president who has been duly elected, special
Band of Mercy literature and a gilt badge
for the president.

NEW BANDS OF MERCY

One hundred and forty-eight Bands of
Mercy were organized during December.
These were distributed as follows:

New York ................... 32
Texas ....................... 32
Georgia ..................... 30
Virginia .................... 25
Florida ..................... 22
Pennsylvania ............... 4
Minnesota .................. 1
New Jersey .................. 1
Massachusetts .............. 1

Total number Bands of Mercy organ-
ized by Parent-American Society, 267,382.
SUMMARY OF FIELD WORK

Number of addresses made, 82
Number of persons in audiences, 15,911

 




 

 

 

Page 66

Feathered Hero

OOKING more than a triﬂe sorry for
itself, a storm-battered pigeon en-
tered the Air Force loft at a point on the
rugged Scottish coast. For nine hours
it had battled with mists and rain to
cover 70 miles.

But that gallant pigeon had thus saved
the lives of nine airmen, the crew of a
giant Catalina ﬂying boat that came to
grief in the sea off the storm-bound coast
of the Shetland Isles.

Huge seas were running and it was
apparent to the crew that what could be
done must be done quickly.

The Catalina’s wireless was defective.
She could receive, but she couldn’t trans-
mit. Although those in charge at control
70 miles away well knew that the Cata-
lina was overdue, surface vessels they
sent out in search failed to locate her.

Then this wireless order reached the
distressed crew of the plane: “Throw out
your dinghy and use special transmitter.”

The Catalina’s crew obeyed, but their
signals were still so faint they could not
be recognized.

“What about our pigeon?” shouted one
of the crew.

“Some hope, with visibility less than
100 yards,” said another. But a message
was tied to the bird’s leg and it was
released with the prayers and hopes of
the airmen.

Again surface vessels from the control
base searched the seas. Again they failed
to sight the crew of the Catalina.

Then the bedraggled pigeon who had
carried out his mission so faithfully en-
tered the loft at control.

In a few minutes a fast motor launch
was speeding to the spot indicated by the
airmen’s message and soon the distressed
crew was brought safely to land.

The pigeon, to whom the men owe their
lives is now named, “Saviour.” It was
bred and presented to the RAF Pigeon
Service by Fleming Brothers, at Mother-
well, Scotland, in 1941.

a

 

 

Dictionary of Dogs
:By Aletha I". Bonner;
The Bulldog

Bulldogs are built on sturdy scale,
With turned-up nose, and stubby tail.
Their coats are brindle, black, or white,

 

They are pugnacious in a fight.

Their ruling factors are, to wit:

Courage, tenacity, and grit.

The links in their historic chain,

Were formed in England, France, and Spain.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

ANIMA LORE

BEAVERS hold the record in the animal
world for under-ice long distance swim-
ming.

TUNA—The ﬁsh known as a tuna in
the Mediterranean and California, is a
tunny in the British Isles, while in the
Atlantic coastal waters of the United
States, it is a great albacore or horse
mackerel.

SLOWWORM looks like a snake, but it
is neither a snake nor a worm. It is a
lizard.

MOURNING DOVES build more than

one nest.

TADPOLES of the bull frogs are seven
inches long, as large as the adult.

SNAKES—It is sometimes said that it is
safe to explore the desert at night when
most snakes are asleep. This is false as
many reptiles do their hunting at night.

VEGETARIANS—Most of the largest
animals in the world are vegetarians.
Elephant, giraffe, gorilla, hippopotamus,
rhinoceros, water buffalo and musk ox.

OBEDIENCE —— In nature, absolute
obedience is demanded of the young by
their parents and all of their leaders.
Anything short of this meets prompt
retribution.

SPIDER living out its natural life may
yield 1,000 feet of silk.

TOURACOS, a small family of brightly
colored birds living in Africa, have non-
washable feathers. Their color is a
chemical one and is so soluble in water
that when the birds get wet it actually
comes out of their feathers.

ANTS—When a small ﬁre occurs near
a bed of ants, the insects squirt their
abdominal ﬂuid on it and put it out.

GARGANTUA — It is estimated that
the largest animal ever to roam the
earth, the baluchitherium, weighed
twice as much as the largest elephant.

SHORE BIRDS, as a general rule, nest
in Canada.

a

Any unusual or interesting facts con-
cerning animals will be gratefully re-
ceived. Please mention source. Address
—Animalore, OurDumb. Animals, 180
Longwood "Avenue, Boston 15, Mass. '

April 19.41;

Pets Take First Place
By CYRIL G. ROBINSON

HE “OLD MAN” may be listed in the

official shipping records as No. 1
aboard ships ﬁghting in the “Battle of
the Atlantic,” but any seaman will tell
you it’s the [ship’s mascot that holds ﬁrst
place in the hearts of all the crew. While
the majority of war vessels calling at
Halifax, Nova Scotia, have dogs for
mascots, others have a wide variety of
animals aboard ship.

There was, for instance, a mocking
bird named “Mina” aboard a Danish mer—
chant ship which was possessed of so
robust a vocabulary that many of its
utterances would bear censorship. The
same ship had a duck called “Donald,” a
little yellow chap which one of the ship’s
crew had picked up while on a stroll at
Long Beach, California. Indeed, Donald
was so pOpular with the crew that they
included him in all their parties. White
mice, rabbits, cats, monkeys, parrots, and
even toads have been found aboard ves-
sels calling at the Nova Scotia seaport.

Spaniels and terriers are among the
more popular breeds of dogs and many of
these have become so “naviﬁed” they
sleep in miniature hammocks. Recently
a West Coast crew claimed the distinc-
tion of having the only ’mick sleeping
dog in the Royal Canadian Navy, but
howls of protest from other R. C. N. ships
went up over this boast and pictures were
produced to prove that there were others.

A friendly white terrier named
“Quick,” terriﬁed by a Luftwaffe raid on
Liverpool, s-campered aboard a merchant
ship at the pierside and a member of the
crew found him trembling and hiding in
a corner aboard the vessel. This dog, just
one of many orphans of the blitz, was
quickly adopted by the crew.

Seamen think nothing about diving
overboard to rescue a cat or a dog which
has fallen into the water. A number of
sailors and merchant seamen have risked
their lives to save their mascots. Wise
to the sailor’s traditional love for ani-
mals, Halifax youngsters frequently ar-
rive at the pier with a stray cat or dog,
with the result that the ship gets a new
mascot and the youngster a few dollars
for the sale.

The attachment of two retired naval
ofﬁcers for a pet bear almost caused a
panic several years ago, when the pair
entered a Halifax restaurant with the
bear on the end of a chain. Screams from
waitresses brought the manager, who in—
duced the trio to leave, but not before the
bear had partly satisﬁed his appetite with
some tasty morsels on tables within his
reach.

Captains encourage rather than frown
on the acquisition of ship’s mascots. They
ﬁgure it hasmuch. to do. with that all-
important thing called morale. ‘ ’

 




 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

Pet woodchuck receives a tidbit.

Wonderful Little Mother
By BURLINGHAM SCHURR

THE HOME of the Wonderful Little

Mother is an old colonial homestead
situated within a 300-acre tract of
wooded and open land. The very peace
and restfulness of the place is an open
invitation to birds and wildlife. Little
Mother bestows her love upon everything
that creeps, crawls, walks, ﬂies or has its
existence. Pigeons ﬂy about, following
her into the gardens and wherever she
goes. The dogs dance about and trail
along with joyful yelps, and all her pets
demonstrate in one way or another how
glad they are when she is around. Little
Bobby Skunk, a truly lovely pet, is in a
happy mood when he goes out on the
lawn with her. And it’s hard to say
whether it’s the pet porcupine, wood-
chucks, gray squirrels, chipmunks, blue
jays, crow, turtles, snakes, or any of the
other pets that demonstrate the most
affection forthe Little Mother. Summer
and winter, be the weather what it may,
not a single day ever passes that the
requirements of the feathered and furred
ones are neglected.

The home of Mrs. “Nat” is a nature
sanctuary in every sense of the meaning,
as well as a haven of refuge for injured
and sick birds and small animals. Crea-
tures hurt by automobiles, wounded by
shot, exhausted by storms, or injured in
other ways, as well as such that are too
young to care for themselves, are brought
to the one who so tenderly administers to
the needs of dumb animals. A majority
of the “patients” recover from their ill-
nesses and are given their freedom. Some
of these decide to venture forth into
the big world to live their lives like others
of their kin. Those remaining imbibe
too freely of human companionship to stir
within their hearts any desire other
than to be members of the family in the
home of the Wonderful Little Mother.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

ANIMAL AND

"Tommie Tucker” is the Beau Brum-
mel of the squirrel world. The young
scug has twenty costumes, including
dresses, sweaters and coat with bonnet
to match. He protests vigorously any
attempt to remove his garments. He has
two fan clubs, gets a daily rose from a
ﬂorist, is fond of coconut, has a "staff
of children” to gather nuts and roots
for his diet, gets a regular shampoo and
blankly refuses offers of his freedom.

Over four hundred Australian citi-
zens, hearing that the little Koalas on
Quail Island (near Melbourne) were
facing extinction due to lack of food,
banded together and stripped leaves
from the Eucalyptus trees to save the
teddy-bear-like pets. The little creatures
will eat no other food than the above
mentioned. As a result of this kindness
to animals on the part of the people, the
Government authorities have promised
to loo/c after the Koalas.

A young, brown calf recently strolled
nonchalantly down the entrance to Hol-
land Tunnel, the underground passage
from New York to New Jersey.

Bombay, India, rationing officials had
a weighty problem on their hands re-
cently, when an elephant brought a peti-
tion in his trunk, maintaining that he
and his fellow pachyderms are important
to the war effort and, as a result, should
be furnished with coupons with which
to buy "elephant vittles.” The board
agreed with him.

"Chips,” a half-shepherd, half-husky
has become the ﬁrst dog in history to
receive the Distinguished Service Cross.
The War Department waived precedent
in making the award, but announced
that hereafter "no animal or fowl” will
be decorated by the Army.

A female dog trainer proved the other
day, at least to a Minneapolis judge and
his court, that there is such a thing as a
talking dog. She is suing for damages
allegedly incurred by her dismissal be-
fore the time allotted for training the
canine superman, named "Argo,” had
elapsed. After Argo had demonstrated
that he can add, count, spell, tell the
time of day, and performed various
other incredible feats, the bench stated
that he might be called as a witness,
pointing out that Argo wouldn’t be the
ﬁrst animal to so testify. According to
the judge, a dog was brought into an
English court two hundred years ago;
while four centuries past, an elephant
testiﬁed in India.

—]aclz Pearson

May 194/,

 

 

OVER THE AIR

A weekly radio program devoted to ani-
mals may be heard each Tuesday afternoon
at |:!5 over Springfield radio station WSPR
—l270 on your radio dial. This program
is presented by Charlena B. Kibbe and
sponsored by the Massachusetts Society

_________m .-......_ﬁ,

for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

 

 

 

Programs will be as follows:
May 2—"Animals in the News." I

May 9—"Emergency Care and Treat-
ment of Animals."

May l6—"True Dog Stories." I
May 23—"Animals in General.”
May 30—-—"Understanding Our Animals."

Frogs Beat the Drought

F you were a frog, and faced with the
problem of drought, what would you
do?

You could safely copy the method of
either one of two species of frog, for
While one runs from his danger, and the
other stays to meet it, they seem equally
successful.

The small, toothless frogs which dot
the pools of South America with splashes
of brilliant color are the ones who do not
wait for the drought to catch them. As
soon as these wee creatures have decided
that a deeper p001 mus-t be found, whole
families leave. The babies are carried
pick-back fashion on the backs. of their
mothers, where they adhere because na-
ture has provided a sticky secretion which
fastens them securely.

The placid, patient frogs of central
Australia, however, refuse to budge from
their ponds. Warned in advance by the
drying up of the puddles, they drink all
the water their bodies will hold, and then
tunnel far into the damp ground. By this
means the frogs can keep alive until the
pool is again bubbling with water, and
have been known to endure for years.

—Ida M. Purdue

:13
To “Dandy”

Was ever a puss so handy,

As our handsome pet, called “Dandy?"
Should mouse or bird come in his way,
They both might fall an easy prey.

Fashioned on a pattern called ”maltese,"
With snow-white kerchief and pink nose,

in the very best chair he takes his ease,
While he polishes white his much-soiled toes.

Although he loves dearly to snooze and doze,
He is ready at times to romp and play,

And he is, as they say, right “on his toes,”
When you toss the ball, he’ll chase any day.

hELIZABETH F. UNDERWOOD

 




a; -. ”a! is- .ﬁ“;-»§;__,_‘.‘ «Le ~2__ A—‘A-pV—r" -

 

 

 

 

"2'" mﬁ.1‘: 1'? "va "-5237

Page 16
Winter Bird Neighbor

By ALVIN M. PETERSON

HAVE many winter bird neighbors,

usually so many that I do not know
them as individuals and do not know
whether those I see one winter are the
very ones I saw the preceding. But there
is a notable exception and I have a feel—
ing it may be the same bird, for I see
him each winter, in or near the oak grove.
If it is the same lbird, he must be getting
old, since I have seen and heard him for
many years.

But why do I see him in winter and not
in summer? For two reasons. In the
spring, he leaves, ﬁnds a mate and rears
a family elsewhere. And, in autumn, he
returns to this neighborhood because
acorns are plentiful here.

The bird is a red-bellied woodpecker.
Each autumn, when the acorns are ripe,
he returns and makes his winter home in
the oak grove. I usually hear him before
I see him, for he utters a peculiar “cha-
cha” note. In some places he is called
“chad” because of this note. Very often,
too, like most woodpeckers, he utters a
rolling note, a series of “chas,” loud and
with one note tumbling over the next. I
glance in the direction from which the
notes seem to come and almost always
ﬁnd him ﬂying from tree to tree, perhaps
with an acorn in his beak, which he
cracks and eats upon alighting.

Our bird sometimes is called zebra
bird or zebraaback, because the back is
crossed by alternate bars of black and
white. He also has red about the head, a
conspicuous patch beginning at the base
of the bill, extending over the crown and
ending on the back of the neck.

Strangely enough, I never see more
than one of these birds in a given place
in winter. Apparently, they do not like
company and never get lonesome. Do
they resent the intrusion of other red—
bellied woodpeckers upon their winter
feeding grounds? I wonder.

There is a rolling hill about a quarter
of a mile distant, near the center of a
small city. Three or four houses are
clustered about this hill, some outbuild-
ings and a number of trees. Here, too, I
usually see and hear a red-bellied wood-
pecker during the colder months of the
year. But, as in the oak grove, I never
have seen more than one of these birds

there.
43

Or Inside Out

Biddy: “Did ye bring home that pane
of glass for th’ kitchen windy, Pat?”

Pat: “Oi did not, Biddy. Oi was after
a twilve be fourteen, an’ the only size
they had was fourteen be twilve.”

Biddy: “You, fool, why didn’t ye get
it? Ye could have put it in sideways,
couldn’t ye?” —Wireco Life

. :m": _.: “.2. ;.:.- "11.2.“ »-,~,; ‘.—-- -

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

ANIMALAND

In Warren, Maine, a thirteen-year-old
albino spaniel, named "Jack,” more than
earns his daily ration by herding chick-
ens. Jack has been known to gather in
as many as 1 ,900 fowls when an impend-
ing storm endangered the birds. It is
said that he can pick up one of the
chickens in his mouth without even wet-
ting its down.

"Linea,” a dog owned by Mr. A. L.
Schwartz, Newport, R. I., is to follow
his master and mistress in the service,
giving the family 100 per cent.

Government ofﬁcials have agreed that
the shoeing of mules and horses is essen-
tial to the War effort and hence, no
ration coupon is required to outﬁt old

dobbin for the chaise.

A donkey, wandering over the Idaho
hills, discovered the greatest silver-lead
mine in the United States. The animal
was declared owner of the mine and his
master was granted half interest in the
property, which has, thus far, paid over
forty million dollars in proﬁts.

Nearly twelve thousand dollars was
raised, in War Bonds, at a recent hog
sale, in Manassas, Virginia. Winners in
the show group were awarded prizes in
War Stamps and all payments were in
bonds and stamps.

An opossum was brought into court,
as Exhibit A, in a recent Los Angeles
divorce case, in which the custody of
two children and sixty-three pets was
granted to a Los Angeles pharmacist.

Young Jimmy Welch, of Bismarck,
North Dakota, recently ran across a

robin’s nest into which was woven a
one dollar bill. The boy stated that "if
a robin can afford to pay rent, I guess
I can afford to give my savings, too.”
So he turned the dollar and another
dollar and twenty-seven cents of his
own over to the North Dakota War
Chest Fund.

The horse, Trigger owned by Roy
Rogers, cowboy actor, can count up to
twenty-ﬁve and, also, do simple sub-
traction and multiplication.

The world’s most famous mouse,
Mickey, recently celebrated his ﬁfteenth
birthday and at his party it was an-
nounced that he has appeared in more
pictures than any other actor—over

ﬁve hundred.
—Jack Pearson

January 1 941;

Who Else Wants a Cracker?

UST why Polly Parrot should have

such a monopoly on verb vaulting
honors among the Aviary Associates, is
not quite certain. For Miss Polly has a
dozen or so rivals for the top spot in the
art of adjective articulation. Among them
is the saucy crow, the ill-omened raven,
the mischievous magpie, the starling,
jackdaw, blue-jay, and the Asiatic talk-
ing-minor. The last—named bird is
credited with the ability to speak far
more clearly than the parrot.

Perhaps Polly’s reputation for super
loquaciousness sprang from the sensa—
tions caused when a limited number of
these birds were found to possess a
vocabulary that was shocking as well as
interesting. And it might be well to
here and now exonerate Miss Polly from
charges that she prefers foul speech to
fair. The parrot’s notoriety for profanity
resulted from the off-color speech of a
few birds who were imported to the
United States during the days of brigs
and clippers. Voyages were often dull and
long and sailors frequently sought relief
from boredom by teaching these inoffen—
sive birds inelegant exclamations and
bawdy ballads. Hence also, the associa-
tion of parrots with sailors.

But credit for speech making is also
due the blue-jay, a clever mimic; the
raven, whose solemn “Nevermore” of
Poe’s poem serves as a reminder of the
bird’s talent, and numerous other obscure
birds. The common crow is no slouch
when it comes to sentence slinging. The
story is told of a pet crow that went into
the ﬁelds to grub for a meal. He was
suddenly attacked by a flock of wild
crows. He saved himself by screaming
human phrases and scaring the would-be
assassins off!

—-—-Vernon H award,

4%

Winter Visitors

F. B. M. Collier

Cold and white, the snow lies deep,
Drifts are high, and wild the wind
Roads are blocked and neighbors far,
Like a galley slave I’m pinned

Close within the walls of home
Watching snowbanks whirl to foam.

Loneliness should be my lot

Were it not I built a tray

On my window in the fall

Hoping birds would nearby stray
And taste the suet, crumbs and seed
I felt should be their daily mead.

They came at once, thesparrow bold
With English stock or russet head,
The starling and the blue jay gay
With Chickadee and nuthatch fed.
Let wind and frost unleash their worst
My birds forestall the shut-in’s thirst.

 




 

    
   

.v" .
/ 3:

l \:: ‘ l: a}: l .’

 

 

THIS IS HOW YOU LOOK

LiHIe Ronnie Bell. of Ba’r’rle Creek. Mich.. does his best to show +his
English bull ius’r how he appears +0 others.

a

A Butterﬂy at Last

ALLA M. FORSTER

A caterpillar on a leaf
Had such a merry swing,
Then he rolled up to take a nap,
Into a little ring.

He’d eaten many shiny leaves,
His clothes grew very tight,
He felt so tired, he wished that he

Could fly away some night.

And Mother N ature—could you guess?
She said he’d have some wings!

Oh such a joke! But do you know
There happen many things.

And he was taught the way to spin,
To make a hammock too,

So he could swing from leaf to leaf,
And not go tumbling through.

And—listen close. One morning when
He wakened to the day.

He had some wings, some lovely wings,
And then he ﬂew away!

 

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

e
g

. n; ’ . t
f $42775»; 0'

do ‘ ’ "f I"—
.\f\‘ K

\ \\
“NI! hhllﬂlldnm“ 5
(“\“m‘xm‘

 
 
    

   
   
 
 

"‘\\\'

W ~-
I ( A. ‘
\sllkgll’x 9.x“ g.“

  
 

' '\\\-‘\u\“\'\'\ l. " l '

 
 

Cross-word Puzzle
By LOUISE M. GOLDTHWAITE

ACROSS

Racing dog.

An Australian animal.

Roentgen rays.

Tire.

Liveliness (Slang).

No (Scot.).

A Wise What makes a
glad father?

Do wrong.

Kilometer (Abb.).

Yes (Spanish).

Butterﬂy.

Three—toed sloth.

King James (Latin).

Life guard (Abb.).

Changehng.

What should you not
buy in a poke?

. . ., Son of Battle.”

Our country.

Preﬁx meaning moun-
tain.

A large net.

Chain of mountains in
U. S.

Arabian camel.

DOWN
1. Antelope.
2. Farm implement.
3. Electric light (Abb.).
4. Wild oxen.
6. Domesticated draft
animals.
7. Abraham’s birthplace.
8. Backof neck.
9. Colorers.
10. Nocturnal animals.
12. South African Ga—
zelle. .
17. Animal of the Belgia
Congo.
21. Man’s best friend.
22. “A harmless neces-
sary . . .”
27. Torn down.
28. Motor truck.
30. What the brave de-
serve.
31. Rhymed or unrhymed,
What is it?
32. What kind of name is
better than riches?
33. Wild hog.
37. Negative.
39. B. ﬂat.

See next month’s issue for the solution.

 

 

 

 

2 4
13
15 16
léc

 

 

25

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

6 8 9
11
14
18
3
3 __....._._..

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

A WOMAN’S WISDOM

Selections from Dorothy Dix’s Rules for Happiness

AKE UP your mind to be happy. Happiness is

mostly a matter of self-hypnotism. You can

think yourself happy, or you can think yourself
miserable.

Nail on your face the smile that won’t come off and after a bit
you will ﬁnd that it stays there naturally.

There isn’t a single human being who hasn’t plenty to cry over,
and the trick is to make the laughs outweigh the tears.

Be yourself, and do the things that you enjoy doing if you want
to be comfortable and happy. I

Don’t borrow trouble. You have to pay compound interest on
that and it will bankrupt you in the end if you do.

There are none of us but who have lain awake at night, petriﬁed
with dread of some calamity that we feared might befall us and
that we felt would shatter our lives if it should occur. Generally,
it never happened, but if it did, it wasn’t so bad after all and we
survived it without serious injury.

Don’t cherish enmities and grudges. Don’t keep up old quar-
rels. Don’t remember all the mean things people have done to
you. Forget them. Hate is a deadly chemical that we distill in
our own hearts and that poisons our own souls.

Don’t hold post mortems. Don’t spend your life brooding over
the mistakes you have made, or the sorrows that have befallen
you. What is done is done, and cannot be changed, but you have
your whole future life in which to make good.

. Do something for somebody less fortunate than yourself. Min-
ister to other people’s troubles. It will make you forget your own.
Happiness is a coin that we keep only when we give it away.

Keep busy. That is a sovereign remedy for unhappiness.
Hard work is a panacea for trouble.

 

 

 

 




 

January 1944

BARBARA AND "MICKEY"

Tears to Smiles

HEN pretty little ﬁve-year—old Bar-
bara Lamont, of Roxbury, recently
appeared at the Angel] Memorial Animal
Hospital weeping bitterly over the loss
of her black and white pet terrier,
“Mickey,” kind-hearted veterinarians of
the Hospital staff, promptly changed those
tears to a great big smile by presenting
her with a very attractive brown and
white dog to take its place. In the pic-
ture, Barbara is shown hugging her new
canine pal, about whom she shyly said,
“I guess I’ll call this one ‘Mickey,’ too, if
you don’t mind.”
4.3

Wordless
By ELLEN D'. MASTERS

No word can pass from me to you,
To light your canine mind,

I cannot tell you of the hope
And solace of mankind.

I know he’ll never come—and why—
At noon or close of day:

You know not death. You only know
Your master is away.

I look beyond the starry vault,
Where Heavenly homes a-wait;

You keep each evening’s vigil true,
Till darkness blurs the gate.

By kindly pat and mute caress
I feebly try to show,
In silence, how I share with you
Life's tragedy and woe.
Sometime you’ll sleep. Perhaps you'll have
A very lovely dream;
Go bounding down a leafy lane,
A-Iight with starry gleam.

In answer to a whistled call—

Forgetting wordless pain
And days of baffled loneliness—
To greet him—home again.

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Cruelty Punished

ARRAIGNED before the superior

court at Plymouth, Robert Shanks,
of New Bedford, was sentenced to a six
months’ suspended sentence in the House
of Correction and probation for three
years on a charge of illegal practice of
veterinary medicine and mutilation of a
horse.

Charles E. Brown, Attleboro agent of
the Massachusetts S. P. C. A., testiﬁed
that Shanks operated on a horse’s mouth
and applied a hitch to the animal’s
tongue, thereby rupturing the muscles of
the tongue and otherwise injuring the
animal’s mouth.

43

American Fondouk, Fez
Report for August and September, 1943

Daily average large animals: 31.2
Daily average dogs: 23.3
Animals put to sleep: 7

Entries 17 horses, 12 mules, 64 donkeys

Exits: 17 horses, 8 mules, 60 donkeys

Outpatients: 587 horses, 199 mules, 604 donkeys,
and 8 dogs

Fondouks visited ........................ 619
Animals inspected ............ . ...... .. . 15,808
Animals treated ........................ . 1,081
Animals sent in ......................... 145
Pack-saddles destroyed ................. 6
Arab bits destroyed ..................... 1
Animals sent by Police Department ..... 24

Amount of our expenses for the two
months: $536.62.

GUY DELON
Superintendent

Page 15

Work Committee Active

ITH the number of sick and in-
jured animals treated at the
Angel] Memorial Animal Hospital rapidly
increasing daily, the Work Committee of
the Massachusetts S. P. C. A. toils dili-
gently to provide surgical bandages,
gauze sponges, operating drapes, etc., so
that suffering members of the animal
kingdom may receive the maximum in
care, comfort and sanitation during their
hospitalization period.

Already, the Committee has made over
35,000 of the various items, and HOspital
ofﬁcials declare that without the untiring
efforts of these volunteer workers, they
would be obliged to purchase quantities
of expensive, but very necessary equip-
ment. Committee members shown at
work, in the picture below, are: Mrs.
George D. Colpas, Chairman, (center)
and Mrs. George A. Ramlose (right).
Mrs. Adele Fread, Hospital nurse, holds
“Barron,” one of her canine patients,
who looks on appreciatively.

In connection with this work, a radio
interview was given over Station WMEX,
between Miss Shirley Lee, Mrs. Colpas
and Miss Margaret Kearns, Secretary to
Dr. Francis H. Rowley and Mr. Eric H.
Hansen. Mrs. Colpas told of the activ-
ities of the Work Committee, and Miss
Kearns spoke of the work of the Society
and Hospital. The program was called,
“How About It, Girls?”

 

WORK COMMITTEE AIDS SICK ANIMAL PETS

(Left to right) Mrs. Adele Fread, Hospital nurse and ”Barron": Mrs. George D. Colpas.
Chairman and Mrs. George A. Ramlose.

 

 




 

April 1944

    

The eyes of the cat are so constructed Jrhat they can pick up the faintest of light reflec-

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

+ion. This has given rise to the belief Jrha’r cats can see in the dark.

EYES to

See You!

By J EWELL CASEY

YES, either of a person or animal,
are the most distinctive of all
features. Look at your pet’s eyes

and the next time you go to the zoo, be
sure to note the different kinds of eyes
there.

The eyes of the pig are more nearly
like those of the hum-an than any other
animal.

Most insects have compound eyes—
that is, their eyes are made up of a
great many eyes set together, similar to
cells of a honey-comb, and, in addition to
the compound eyes, some insects possess
simple eyes, usually three in number, and
these are located between the compound
eyes. '

Flies have two eyes on either side of
the head, composed of many thousand
six-sided eyes, permitting them to see
in every direction. In addition, on top of
the head are three simple eyes.

The eyes of a horse are so arranged
that they can see forward, backward and
at the side.

Snakes do not have eyelids. Thus they
can see only forward, with the exception
of the mighty anaconda snake. Its eyes
are elevated so it can look downward, as
well as straight ahead.

Most spiders have four pairs of eyes
which are located on top of the head.

The eye-s of all fowls are placed at the
side of the head in such position that
it is impossible for them to see the same
object with both eyes at the same time.
And another strange thing, they do not
have upper eyelids.

Birds can adjust their eyes for either
near or far vision much more effectively
than people can, and their sight is very
keen. It is said that the eagle has the
keenest eyesight of any living creature.
Indeed, such is the sharpness of its vi-
sion that it can see a mouse on the ground
even though ﬂying at a great height.

Fish have no eyelids, but the eyeball is
movable. They are very nearsighted, in—
asmuch as the lens of the eye has to be

spherical to permit sight in the water.
Since they have no means of closing them,
ﬁsh sleep with their eyes wide open! Fish
found in Carlsbad, Mammoth and other
caves are entirely without trace of ex-
ternal eyes.

The turtle has no eyelids, but does have
a membrane which comes up from below
and entirely covers the eye.

The eyelids of toads are similar to
those of birds—they rise from below.
When a toad sleeps its eyes are drawn in
even with the surface of the head, in-
stead of bulging as when awake.

The eyes of a rabbit are so arranged
on the bulge at the side of the head to
permit views from both ways.

The giraffe’s eyes protrude to such an
extent that this queer animal is able to
see in all directions without turning its
head.

Alligators are equipped with extra sets
of eyelids — transparent ones — permit-
ting them to keep their eyes open when
under water.

The eyes of a snail, which number up
in the thousands, are on stems and work
independently of one another—one eye-
stem may be drawn back and the other
outstretched. I

The salamander, newt or eft, has pretty
golden eyes, but no eyelids. However, it
can pull its eyes back into the head and
close the slit, thereby protecting the eyes.

Bats, contrary to popular belief, are
not blind, but have a very keen sight
both day and night.

The small weak eyes of the mole are
covered by overlapping skin which serves
as a protection from dirt.

The ﬂounder ﬁsh—“poor little thing,
has but one eye”—has a most unusual eye
arrangement. The ﬁrst few days of the
ﬂounder’s life its eyes are set on both
sides of the body, but soon the ﬁsh starts
leaning to one side; the bones of the
head start twisting and the eye on the
underside migrates to the upper side,
ﬁnally uniting with its mate.

Page 67

      

Appealing eyes of Jrhe dog.

The horse can look forward. backward W
and to the side.

 

The owl's sight is very keen.

    
    
    

'“VFishV-‘have no eyelids.

Toadsl eyes rise from below.

Rbbu’rs'loélé airway". 'aance.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 126

Hitchhikers of the Sea
By L. E. EUBANKS

HE shark suckers may be called the

sea’s hitchhikers. Instead of swim-
ming under their own power they attach
them-selves to some more powerful crea-
ture, usually, but not always, a shark,
that will carry them along from one part
of the sea to another. These sucking-
ﬁshes have a large sucking disk on their
backs behind their heads, by which they
can attach themselves so ﬁrmly to any
object that it is almost impossible to
remove them without tearing either their
bodies or the disks.

They will fasten themselves to almost
any moving object, if they take the
notion, and have been seen clinging to
the sides of ships and boats, to turtles,
whales and different kinds of ﬁsh. One
specimen taken in British waters was
attached to a cod. Sometimes they will
fasten themselves to the albacore, a ﬁsh
that will eat the shark sucker whenever
it can catch one. The ancient writer,
Aristotle, reported that the Mediter-
ranean variety attaches itself to the
dolphin. As the name indicates, they
usually prefer a shark for a companion,
and the sea monsters sometimes carry a
number of the small passengers. They
can slide all over the shark’s body with-
out letting go, and relax their grip when
the shark is hooked by a ﬁsherman and
lifted into the air. _

It is not clear just why the sucking-
ﬁsh prefers to associate with a larger
swimmer in this way. It is safer per-
haps than it would be if alone, but what
would seem to be the most plausible ex-
planation is that it follows the shark for
the chance of snatching up morsels of
food when its larger companion is feed-
ing. The shark sucker is not dependent
on this, however, and is perfectly ca-
pable of hunting its own food.

Even in ancient times, sailors were
familiar with the habits of this odd crea-
ture. When they saw the sucking-ﬁshes
anchoring themselves to stones on the
bottom, they believed this indicated an
approaching gale and got their vessel
ready to meet the storm. It was believed
that this ﬁsh could attach itself to sail-
ing vessels and hold the craft motionless
in the water no matter how strongly
the wind blew against the sails above.
This story is reﬂected in the scientiﬁc
names given the ﬁsh, Echeneis, meaning
“shipholder” and Remora, signifying
“delay.”

To land the ﬁsh, the angler must be
very quick about drawing it out of the
water as soon as the shark sucker is
hooked and before it has a chance to get
itself anchored anywhere.

:13

Kindness always pays good dividends.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

A Pig Mascot

ARMY mascots have been many and
, various. One of the most unusual
cases goes «back to the War of 1812.

In Mercer County, Kentucky, in 1813,
Kentucky troops under General William
Harrison were en route to join Shelaby’s
army at Harrodsburg. About a mile
from that town they came upon two
pigs, ﬁghting. What Kentuckian would
not stop to watch?

No sooner had they stopped, however,
than the ﬁght was over and as they
started on they found that the victorious
pig was following. That night Piggy
camped near the Kentuckians. All the
way through Kentucky to Ohio he fol-
lowed. He sw'am the river at Cincinnati
and was waiting on the other side when
his soldiers got across. He kept with
them to Lake Erie. At the lake, he sailed
with the troops to Bass Island, but re-
fused to embark again for Canada and
had to be left on the island to root for
himself.

These particular Kentuckians were
badly defeated at Raisin River, but other
soldiers from the same state helped break
the hold of the British on the Northwest
Territory forever.

When the troops came back to Bass
Island, there was Piggy, waiting to take
his place at the right side of the line. He
followed them back to the home state and
there he gave up. He had to be carried
in a cart to Governor Shelby’s farm,
where he lived for several years and was
a distinguished guest at later reunions
of the company.

—Lelia Munsell

a
Dog Hero

R D. YOUNG, for many years Chief

° of Police of a small Alabama town,
relates his experience with a small fox
terrier of almost human intelligence,
whose devotion and loyalty to his young
master saved the boy’s life.

The little dog, taking advantage of an
opened door by a departing visitor,
slipped into the oﬂice of the Chief of
Police and leaped upon the desk of the
startled Chief. In the dog’s mouth was
a red rag, which upon closer examination
turned out to be a blood-soaked handker-
chief.

In the eyes of the little terrier the
Chief could read a pleading as strong as
any human emotion. Hardly realizing
what he was doing, the Chief followed
the little dog out of the ofﬁce, out of the
building, down main street, across town,
through woods, across ﬁelds and streams
until the wounded master was found, an
accidentally self-inﬂicted riﬂe bullet
through his right lung.

Mr. Young no longer doubts the reason-
ing powers of the one animal that is
man’s best friend.

—H. Charles Pounders

July 1941;

Mascots Take to the Air

OGS, cats and other pets take to the

air with enthusiasm, and there are
few air corps units or training schools
anywhere without at least one valued
mascot who will beg or steal a ride every
chance he gets. ' ‘-

Gyp, the small cocker mascot of a
bomber and gunnery school, had hundreds
of hours of ﬂying time to his credit.
Pilots aver that his instinct for blind
ﬂying is worth every instrument on the
panel. Snoozing peacefully on the co-
pilot’s seat or on an indulgent “skipper’s”
knee during most of the ﬂight, he never
fails to wake up, wag his tail and yelp
delightedly when the plane comes within
a short distance of the base on the home-
ward ﬂight.

In the early day-s of the War an R.A.F.
pilot somehow acquired two small, or-
phaned squirrels. One perished in the
horror of Dunkirk; the other, named
“Fortnum,” ﬂew to England and later
made many ﬂights over the continent.
Later, when his master was assigned to
ground duties, Fortnum also retired—to
a rabbit hutch. But a squirrel with ad-
venture behind him at least has some-
thing to chatter about!

Lea-ding “Aircraftman Spotty,” an air—
dale member of a Polish bombing squad-
ron in England, so distinguished himself
in bombing ﬂights over Germany that he
was recognized in an order of the day by
the commanding oﬂ‘icer. Growling in
deﬁance at Nazi ﬂak and ﬁghting planes,
wagging his tail in approval as bombs
fell on the homeland of Poland’s despoil—
ers, the mascot was cited for his “example
and coolness during ﬂights.”

——W. J. Banks

 

Royal Canadian Air Force Photo

Mascot ot a bombing and gunnery school
at Mont Joli receives a decoration.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 124

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Bird and Animal Weather Vanes
By ALETHA M. BONNER

“The wind is in the East, and
rain is on the way.”

——Old Weather Vane PrediCtion

ISTORY has never voiced a posi-
H tive statement as to when or where
the ﬁrst weather vane made its
appearance, but it is deﬁnitely known that
from early times men have adorned their
buildings — their churches and castles,
their cottages and stables—with, to quote
one authority,
vanes, which have served the dual pur-
pose of furnishing decoration, and giving
meteorological information.”

Delvers into weather vane lore ﬁnd that
the humble subject has a fascinating
history, which extends as far back as
100 BC, when the “Tower of Winds in
Athens was embellished with a bronze
Triton pointing the direction of the
wind.”

In the glossary of ancient architecture
the vane is described as a “weathercock
on a steeple,” and for the most part,
animals and fowls have ever proved
favorite vane designs down the centuries;
the beast or bird sitting on a slender
pedestal and carrying an upright rod, on
which a thin plate of metal is hung like a
ﬂag, and which swings with the wind.

According to early church annals, the
signiﬁcance of the weathercock on the
church steeple has to do with the im—
mortal fowl of Biblical text, whose thrice-
time crowing stirred Peter’s conscience to
repen-tant action, on the night he denied
his Lord.

The symbolic cockerel continued to be a
favorite weather vane design for Amer-
ican churches, after the early colonists
brought the European custom to the New
World.

Furred Beetles

NE of the best dressed members of

the insect kingdom is the elephant

beetle, for not only on special occasions,

but Sunday, Monday and always he wears
——a fur coat!

Furred beetles are also called elephant
beetles, from the long, pointed horns
which make them look like miniature
elephants. The big fellow found in Central
America generally attains a length of
about ﬁve inches, and has silky, yellow
fur covering his shining black body ex-
cept for the horns, which are bare. His
Nicaraguan cousin is often still bigger,
wears a similar coat of yellow and, in
addition, the horns sport a cap of dark
brown fur!

Elephant beetles are not often found
with whole coats, because the fur is soft
and scrapes off on stones or twigs.

——Ida M. Purdue

“an inﬁnite variety of.

One of the pioneer professional manu—
facturers was “Deacon” Shem Drowne,
of Boston. He it was who made the
famous hammered-copper grasshopper
weather vane on Boston’s Faneuil Hall.
Said to have been a perfect copy of the
grasshopper vane atop the Royal EX-
change Building in London, the green
glass eyes of the American replica looked
down upon many interesting scenes on
history’s moving screen of national ac—
tivity, following the date of its placement
on the Hall in 1749.

Another early weather vane specimen
was a ﬁsh, made of hardwood and [studded
with copper nails, which originally
topped the coppersmi-th shop of the
patriot Paul Revere, at Canton, Mas-
sachusetts, but which now is a museum
piece in the Revere House in North
Square, Boston. It is believed that this
vane is older than the Faneuil Hall grass-
hopper, or a wooden weathercock, bearing
dating of 1786, that stood for many years
on the old Custom House of Portland,
Maine.

Barn tops and stables of old New Eng-
land were all adorned with vanes of every
description, though animal designs pre-
dominated—horses, cows, pigs, and the
like. Domestic and wild fowls, many
with wings outs'pread as though ready
to ﬂy away, also proved popular wind—
signal patterns.

With the march of time the weather
vane fad faded into history. However, in
more recent years the vane has been re—
instated as an interior decoration for the
ﬁreplace mantel or used as a garden-
piece ornament; and today, dragons,
lambs, and copper cows, peacocks, cranes,
and crowing cocks are to be found from
coast to coast.

July 1944

Child and the Mystic Woo-d

By MARIE ZETTERBERG JELLIF‘FE

I come into the dark green wood,
Is this the place called solitude?

' A bird’s nest falls upon the ground.
Velvet fungus clings around
The fallen trees. A butterfly
And bumble bee now hasten by,
A small brush bunny hops my way,
Little bunny, with me stay!
. . . . There he goes
Where the bramble bushes close
Round each other. Now a squirrel
Up a tree climbs in a whirl.
I may catch a wee wood mouse,
Or a snail in his pearl house.
I love tiny flowers that grow.
In the mosses in a row,
Are ground pinks and violets,
Their deep haunts no one forgets.
Here a tall fern, there a rose,
A rippling brook beside me flows.
Leaves are boats that sail away
To each shadowed hidden bay.
Is that a wind that flies by me,
Or a dryad I can’t see?
How still it is! I think I hear
A cricket in pine needles near.
ls this the pathway that I took
By the little tinkling brook
To the gate the tall trees made?
Sunbeams beckon from the hill
Near my home, and small birds trill
Their glad songs in maple shade.
High above me shines the sky,
Dark fern woods, good-bye, good-bye!

@

THE love for an [animal is something
that grows on you like the love to

grow ﬂowers, which, with nature and the
help of your hands, gradually grows into
something unforgettable and beautiful.

—Ruth Firmigan

 

We’re not afraid of any snail;
He won’t bite you or me;

Without a magnifying glass,
His teeth you cannot see.

 

 

He Has More Teeth Than Any Other Animal

Odd Facts

in Rime

By CARROLL VAN COURT

But if you counted all he has,
Above and underneath;
You’d be surprised to know a snail

Has 14,000 teeth!

 

 

 




 

 

Ready Reference

Nothing is so disconcerting as a
futile search for a particularly
desired copy of Our Dumb Animals.

Perhaps there was an issue that
you just didn’t get around to read;
perhaps you wanted to refer to
some particular article, story or

poem; perhaps you wanted to save

each issue for your children’s educa-
tion. Whatever it was, a copy or
two have become lost.

Here is a chance to maintain a
permanent ﬁle in your private
library, by buying a bound volume
of the 1943 issues. There you will
have ready reference to the many
informative articles on nature and
animal care. It will be an invalu-
able aid to your children in their
school work.

Furthermore, these volumes make
splendid gifts, especially to school
and public libraries. But whatever
the reason, sendyour order now for
the desired number of bound vol—
umes of

OUR DUMB ANIMALS for 1943
240 pages; 200 illustrations of
animals and birds

Price .......... $1.50
180 Longwood Ave., Boston 15, Mass.

 

 

 

 

KINDNESS BLOTTERS

The new edition of our Be Kind
to Animals Week blotter is just off
the press.

Its appropriate illustration and
Kindness Week message, printed
in red and black on gray blotting
has a universal appeal.

Price, ﬁfty cents a hundred.

Order now from

American Humane Education
Society

180 Longwood Ave., Boston 15, Mass.

 

 

 

 

 

Humane Films

There are no better silent humane
pictures than

THE BELL OF ATRI

illustrating Longfellow’s poem of
the same title
and

IN BEHALF OF ANIMALS

showing the practical work of the
Massachusetts S. P. C. A., its Rest
Farm for Horses at Methuen, and
the Angel] Animal Hospital
For terms of sale or rent, address

Secretary, 180 Longwood Ave.
Boston

 

 

 

 

Humane literature and Band of Mercy Supplies

For sale by the American Humane Education Society and the Massachusetts S. P. C. A.

180 Longwood Avenue, Boston 15, Mass., at these prices, postpaid.

Titles in bold-face type are of books or booklets

Our Dumb Animals, 1943, bound volume $1.50
Our Dumb Animals, 1942, bound volume 1.00
Colored Posters, 17 x 28 inches, attrac-

tive pictures and verses, six in set .. 1.00

Colored Posters, 17 x 22 inches, eight in
the set .5 cts. each; eight for 35 cts.

About the Horse

Care of the Horse . . . .. .. ..$1 25 per 100

Humane Education Leaﬂet, No. 5 ...... .50 ” “
The Horse’s Prayer .30 “ “
The Bell of Atri, poem by Longfellow .. .50 “ “

The Shame of It—Mutilating the horse
by setting up his tail. Dr. Rowley.
Four illus., 4 pp. ................... Free

About the Dog
Distemper in Dogs .................... Free
Eulogy on the Dog, by Vest, post-card . .$0.50 per 100
Care of the Dog ....................... .75 “ “
Suggestions for Feeding Dogs .......... 1.50 “ “
Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 3 and 4 .50 “ “
“Don” and His Boy Scout Friends, J. P.

Lyons ............................... .50 “ “
Boots’ Day, play, for two boys and three
girls ................. 3 cts. each; ﬁve for 10 cts.

About the Bird

The Birds of God, 318 pp., illus. . cloth, $0.45
Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 1 and 2.$0.50 per 100
How the Birds Help the Farmer ........ .50 “ “

The Air-Gun and the Birds ............ .50 “ “
About the Cat
Care of the Cat ....................... $0.75 per 100
The Cat in Literature ................ .50 “ ”
Do Not Leave Your Cat to Starve ..... .50 “ “
“The Beggar Cat,” post—card, 6 cts. doz. .50 “ “
About Other Animals

Duration Feeding of the Dog and Cat.. Free
Care of Animals During Air Raids Free
Farm Animals During Air Raids ....... Free
Do You Know About This? Free
First Aid to Animals, Dr. Schneider, 8 pp. $.1. 00 per 100
How to Kill Animals Humanely, 4 pp. . . .75 “ “
Humane Education Leaﬂet, No. 6, Animals .50 " “
Ways of Kindness ..................... .75 “ “
Humane Education Leaﬂet, No. 7, Farm

Animals ............................ .50 “ “
Care of Rabbits .30 “ “
Professor Frog’s Lecture, 8 pp. ........ .75 “ “
Why the Toad is so Useful .30 “ “

The Jack London Club

Michael Brother of Jerry, Jack London, cloth, 75 cts.
What is the Jack London Club? . .. .. . . .$O.30 per 100
Foreword from “Michael Brother of

Jerry” ... .30 H it
Do Wild Animals Prefer Capt1v1ty" Helen
Trevelyan 4 pp. . . . . . _50 .. u

Humane Education

The Animal or the Child, Dr. Rowley .. . Free
Humane Education, by Dr. Francis H.

Rowley .............................. Free
The Relation of the Home to Character

Formation, Dr. Francis H. Rowley . . .. Free
Humane Education and Spiritual Values,

Dr. Rowley ......................... Free
A Great Prophecy, Dr. Rowley . .. . . . .. . Free
Kindness and Humane Education ....... $1.00 per 100

Care and Kindness for Our Animal

Friends, 32 pp., paper covers, many

illus. ..... . . .. .. . . .. .10 cts. each; twelve for $1.00
Kindness Picture Book, 32 pp., 10 cts.; 12 for $1.00
The Teacher’s Helper in Humane Educa-

tion, 32 pp. ......................... each, 10 cts.

An Early Start to Kindness, Lucia F.

Gilbert, 48 pp. For ﬁrst and second

grades .............................. each, 10 cts.
. each, 25 cts.

The Humane Idea, Dr. Francis H. Rowley
cloth, 35 cts.

“Be Kind to Animals” pennants . .. . . .

Friends and Helpers (selections for school
use) Sarah J. Eddy .. .. . . . cloth, $1. 20

The B—K—T—A—Club, play, 3 cts. each; ten for 250.
“And a Little Child Shall Lead Them,"

play ...................... 3 cts. each; ten for 25c.
I’ll Never Hunt Again, play 3 cts. each; ﬁve for 10 cts.
The Best Gift, play ....... 2 cts. each; six for 10 cts.
Let Us Have Pets! play, for three boys

and three girls .......... 2 cts each; six for 10 cts.

Humane Education the Vital Need, Dr.
Rowley, short radio address, 2 cts. each.$0.50 per 100

Humane Education, What to Teach and

How to Teach It .................... .50 ” “
A Talk with the Teacher .............. .50 “ “
Our Love for Animals, a short radio

address .................. 2 cts. each; 1.00 “ “
A Festival of Tender Mercies .......... .50 “ “
How to Organize a Society for the Pro-

tection of Animals .................. .50 “ “
Bookmark, with “A Humane Prayer” . . 1.00 ” “

Twenty Years of Be Kind to Animals
Week, Guy Richardson ..3 cts. each; ten for 25 cts.

Band of Mercy

“Be Kind to Animals” Buttons, two
styles—Humane Society or S. P. C. A. .$1.00 per 100

Buttons—white star, Band of Mercy, on
blue ground with gilt letters and border,

one cent each.......................1.00 “ “
Badges, gold ﬁnish, large, 10 cts., small 5cts.
“Band of Mercy” pennant 25 cts.
Songs of Happy Life (56 pages, words

only) ............................... $3.00 per 100
Band of Mercy Membership Card .50 “ “
How to Form Bands of Mercy .50 “ “

Please enclose remittance with orders for less than $1

AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
180 Longwood Ave., Boston 15, Mass.

 

 

 

THIS SPACE
CONTRIBUTED

 

 

 

 

 

Since 1832
J. S. WATERMAN & SONS, Inc.

@Hnmrtakers
BOSTON—BROOKUNE—CAMBRIDGE

City and out-of—town service

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

1,“;\L

4‘3”
" n ‘v ‘

~ A” 4.1)..) av n ,,

 

 




 

 

July 191,4

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

A beautiful female Luna Moth served as a model.

Erection of a Home

ECORDING the metamorphosis of

a luna moth by means of the camera

is a most interesting method, as
well as an accurate one.

One morning in early spring, I found
clinging to my screen door a beautiful
specimen of the luna moth. From the
plump—shaped body and narrow antennae,
I knew it was a female. On the chance
that she had mated and her eggs would
be fertile, I put her in a box, hoping that
I would have a chance at watching the
growth of the larva of this beautiful
moth.

She laid a number of eggs and within
ten days some twenty—ﬁve or thirty tiny
caterpillars had emerged from the eggs.
In order to keep them from roaming
from the plant food, which I knew to be
pecan leave-s, I conﬁned them in a fruit
jar. To keep the plant fresh, I put a
small amount of moist sand in the bottom
of the jar into which I set the pecan twig.

Once each day I put fresh food and
clean sand into the jar. It was truly
amazing how greedily the little cater-

pillars ate and how rapidly they grew.
They ate [day and night, except for the
few hours when they were molting, and
they molted some eight or ten times.

Finally, after feasting for thirty days,
one ﬁne large fellow quit eating and
started to roam. He quickly changed
color and began to shrink. I moved him
to a larger jar in which there was a fresh
pecan twig. Soon he began fastening
two leaves together and I knew he was
beginning to spin a cocoon. For twenty—
eight hours I photographed him at inter-
vals of four hours, and felt repaid for
loss of sleep with the pictures of the
actual construction of [the silken cocoon
of the luna moth caterpillar.

It was truly a wonderful sight to be-
hold the artistic way in which he ar-
ranged the leaves, then spun the silk and
ﬁlled each tiny crack.

The silk, when ﬁrst spun, was pure
white, but later changed to a rich golden
brown, blending perfectly with the leaves
after they, too, turned brown.

———J. Casey

More Gifted by N aturea . . . . .

If we stop to consider
It’s easy to see
Our dumb friends are often
More clever than we!
If we work like a Beaver,
We're bound to succeed;
If faithful as Towser,

We’re faithful indeed!

lf one-half as gifted

As Puss, when we roam,
We’ll always be able

To find our way home!
If singing we rival

The gay mocking bird,
Our songs are the sweetest

That man ever heard!

 

Page 125

 

Caterpillar feasted for thirty days.

Completely sealed in finished cocoon.

By CLARENCE M. LINDSAY

If useful as Bossy,
Day in and day out,
That's certainly something
To feel proud about!
Yes, our dumb friends are often
More clever by far;
More gifted by nature
Than we humans are!

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

Page 68

 

Acme Photo

TINY SURVIVOR OF TARAWA

A tiny kitten. that sought refuge under this blasted tank during the
bloody fighting on Tarawa. gets a bit of water from a U. 5. Marine.

@
Statues of Feathered Friends

By JASPER B. SINCLAIR

HE MONUMENT to the seagulls in Temple Square is

familiar to Salt Lake City visitors. A slim column topped

by a seagull poised for ﬂight, it was erected by the early

settlers of Utah in grateful remembrance for the saving of
their crops from insect hordes.

The seagull monument is credited with being the ﬁrst ever
erected to a bird. Whatever merit there is in the claim, many
similar tributes have since been reared in appreciation of our
feathered friends. _

There is a statute of a hen at Little Compton, in the State
that also gave name to the Rhode Island reds. “President Wil-
son,” a pigeon that had an honorable service record with Gen-
eral Pershing’s A. E. F., stands enshrined today in the Smith-
sonian Institute, at Washington.

The Scottish War Memorial in Edinburgh, a national shrine
dedicated to those who gave their lives in the ﬁrst World War,
has forgotten no detail or branch of service. It even remembers
the canaries graven in bronze there, in token of their use by
engineers and sappers to detect the presence of poison gas.

It may be a mystery why the rooster is so frequently displayed
on weather vanes in this country, but it is at least one way to
pay tribute to that early rising “alarm clock” bird. Many towns
and villages in the northern countries of continental Europe
pay similar tribute to the stork, the honored bird among towns-
people and peasants alike in those countries.

Guatemalans have paid like honor to the quetzal, the bird of
freedom, that is the national emblem of that Central American
republic. The quetzal also decorates many of Guatemala’s coins
and postage stamps.

Even a mythical bird can receive its share of attention at
times. The great Tower of the Sun at the 1939 Golden Gate
International Exposition was surmounted by a ﬁve-ton phoenix
——the bird that rises from its own ashes every 500 years, ac—
cording to the mythology of ancient Greeks and Romans.

The American bald eagle, of course, is commonly portrayed
in bronze or stone in many cities throughout the United States.
In most instances our national emblem appears thus with
wings outspread in ﬂight.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

April 191,1,

Cats’ Cafeteria
By CI‘CELY C. MELLOR

VERY evening, around cooking time, a number of cats ap-

pear and sit on the terrace near my kitchen window. They

always follow one another through a hole in the fence which
divides our yard from the one next door.

There are four or ﬁve of them, including two females. The
toms apparently operate under a flag of truce during the supper
hour. After a while, if there is nothing in the saucer, the
leader—a huge white animal with orange ears and tail—rises
with great dignity and proceeds towards the adjoining house.

Sometimes when they are my supper guests they will sud-
denly go rigid, listening. Then, forsaking the viands offered,
they race madly in the direction of noises which to them are
indicative of more variety—possibly a piece of liver! Presently
they ﬁlter back to ﬁnish what is on the menu here.

The queens, never far off, are always ﬁrst at “the table.” But
their men folks, arriving singly from their neighborhood
stamping grounds, muscle in rudely, ignoring the rule of “ﬁrst
come, ﬁrst served.” Starting with the house on the corner,
they systematically cadge their way down the block, going
from one back garden to the other.

Their human friends aid and abet this beggary by con-
tributing bits of meat, ﬁsh, and cooked vegetable scraps.
People in ground—ﬂoor homes put out fresh water and milk. In
this way, all the cats get a decent meal and everyone who has
anything suitable is glad to throw it to them. One woman
even lets down a shallow pan of dainties on a rope from an up-
stairs window. When the cats hear the pan clanking against
the wall they drop everything and run to it.

These cats are not the pets of any one person. We call them
community cats, as so many neighbors help them in a practical
way. The animals are in ﬁne condition; keep themselves clean
and enjoy their freedom to the full.

Perhaps the Cat Cafeteria idea will solve the destitute cat
problem on your street.

 

Scottie Says:

“Those
Camera
Addictsl”

I can't understand it; I've thought all I can,
Why man wants to make a dog look like a man!

 

 

A day doesn’t pass . . . . a night never goes,

But my master will “shoot" me in some weird pose.

I stand on a ladder, a fence, or a throne,

Dolled up in more costumes than you’ve ever known.

I wear a tuxedo, spats, top hat and cane,

Smoke big, black cigars, drink milk or champagne.

I'm a hobo, a soldier, a banker, a worker,

A SPAR or a WAVE or a young soda ierker.

I stare into high-powered lamps till I’m groggle,

While I'm pictured as everything else but a doggie!
#Carsten Ahrens

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

/ OUR DUMB ANIMALS

    

PW

   
      

r
€~C1Rcbee HE 0LC>9

Editor — WILLIAM A. SWALLOW
Assistant Editor —— WILLIAM M. MORRILL

it

 

 

 

IMPORTANT!
OUR MAIL ADDRESS

N0 mail wha+soever should be sen+
+0 us a+ 48 Cen+ral S+ree+. Nor-
wood. Massachusetts. This address is
simply one which we mus+ main+ain
in compliance with Pos+ Office reg-
uIa+ions.

Mail so addressed is sometimes
delayed a ma++er of weeks before we
receive i+.

 

CORRECT ADDRESS

We ask your coopera+ion in +his
ma++er. I+ will help us +0 serve you
more promp+ly if you will use our
c0rrec+ address.

At +he b0++0m 0f +his column you
will find +he address +0 which all com-
munica+i0ns should be sen+.

Please use i+ now and in all fu+ure
correspondence.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SUBSCRIPTION RATES

One dollar per year. Postage free +0 any part
of the world.

All dollar subscriptions sent direct +0 the office
entitle the sender +0 membership in either of our
two Societies.

MANUSCRIPTS relating to animals. par+icu-
larly prose articles of about 300 words. are
solicited. We do not wish +0 consider prose
manuscripts longer than 500 words nor verse in
excess of twenty—four lines. The shorter +he bet-
ter. All manuscripts should be typewritten and
an addressed envelope wi+h full re+urn pos+age
enclosed with each offering.

Published monthly by The Massachuse++s Socie+y
for +he Prevention of Cruelty +0 Animals. Pub-
lication office, 48 Cen+ral Street. N0rw00d. Massa—
chuse++s. Entered as second-class matter. June
29. l9l7. at the Post Office at Norwood. Mass..
under the Act of March 3. I879. Acceptance for
mailing at special rate of pos+age provided for
in section llO3. Act of Oc+0ber 3. l9l7.
authorized. July l3. l9l9.

Address all c0mmunica+i0ns +0 Editorial Office.
|80 Longwood Avenue, Boston l5. Mass.

 

Founded by Geo. T. AngeII. I868
VOLUME 77—No. 9

U. S. Trade Mark Regis+ered
SEPTEMBER. I944

PUBLISHED BY
THE MASSACHUSETTS SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS
AND
THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY

Officers

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY. Presiden+
ERIC H. HANSEN. Execu+ive Vice-Presiden+
ALBERT A. POLLARD. Treasurer
WILLIAM A. SWALLOW. Secre+ary
PEABODY. BROWN. ROWLEY 8r STOREY. Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds

JOHN R. MACOMBER. Chairman of +he Board. Firs+ Bos+0n Corpora+i0n

CHARLES S. BANCROFT. Vice-Presiden+ and Chairman Finance Commi++ee.
Uni+ed Shoe Machinery Corporation

CHARLES E. SPENCER. JR.. Presiden+. Firs+ Na+i0nal Bank of Bos+0n

Massachuse++s S. P. C. A.

JOSEPH MOONEY, Treasurer’s Assistant

Prosecuting Officers in Boston
Telephone lComplaints, Ambulances) Longwood 6100

L. WILLARD WALKER, Chief Officer

HARRY L. ALLEN HOWARD WILLAND
HARVEY R. FULLER *J. ROBERT SMITH

County Prosecuting Officers
HERMAN N. DEAN, Boston Middlesex and Norfolk
FRED T. VICKERS, Wenham Eastern Essex
WILLIAM W. HASWELL, Methuen
JOSEPH E. HASWELL, Methuen
JOHN T. BROWN, [Springfield

Western Essex
Western Essex

ampden, Hampshire and Franklin

HARRY C. SMITH, Worcester

CHARLES E. BROWN, New Bedford
Bristol and Plymouth
HAROLD G. ANDREWS, Hyannis
Barnstable, Dukes and Nantucket

T. KING HASWELL, Pittsfield Berkshire

Worcester

Rest Farm for Horses and Small Animal Shelter,
Methuen

W. W. HASWELL, Superintendent

Other Small Animal Shelters of M. S. P. C. A.

Boston, 180 Longwood Avenue
Springfield, 53-57 Bliss Street

Pittsfield, 224 Cheshire Road

Attleboro, 3 Commonwealth Avenue
Hyannis, State Road, Rte. 28, Centerville
Wenham, Cherry Street

Brockton, 226 Pearl Street

Branches and Auxiliaries

Northampton Branch of Mass. 5. P. C. A.——PROF.
l? R. LIEDER, Pres.; MRS. ARTHUR S. WARNER,
reas.

Holyoke Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.———AARON M.
BAGG, Pres.; BROOKS WHITE, Treas.

Springfield Branch Auxiliary—MRS. ROBERT R.
MILLER, Pres.; MRS. H. W. STOCKBOWER, Treas.

Winchester Branch Auxiliary—MRS. RICHARD S.
TAYLOR, Pres.; MRS. WILLIAM M. BEGGS, Treas.

Boston Work Committee of Mass. S. P. C. A.—
MRS. GEORGE D. COLPAS, Chairman.

American Humane Education Society

Field Workers of the Society
Mrs. Alice L. Park, Palo Alto, California
Mrs. James D. Burton, Harriman, Tennessee
Mrs. Florida L. Byrne, Tacoma, Washington
Mrs. Katherine Weathersbee, Atlanta, Georgia
Rev. Dr. F. Rivers Barnwell, Fort Worth, Texas
Rev. John W. Lemon, Ark, Virginia
Miss Lucia F. Gilbert, Boston, Massachusetts
Rev. R. E. Griffith, De Land, Florida

Field Representative
Dr. Wm. F. H. Wentzel, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

Foreign Corresponding Representatives

E. J. H. Escobar ...................... Colombia
Luis Pareja Cornejo.. .................. Ecuador
Leonard T. Hawksley ................... Italy

» S. C. Batra ........................... India
Mrs. Marie C. E. Houghton .............. Madeira
Dr. A. T. Ishkanian ................... Mexico
Mrs. Alice W. Manning ................. Turkey

7%

Angell Memorial Animal Hospital
and Dispensary for Animals
180 Longwood Avenue—Telephone Longwood 6100

Veterinarians

E. F. SCHROEDER, D.V.M., Chief of Staff
*G. B. SCHNELLE, V.M.D., Asst. Chief

R H. SCHNEIDER, V.M.D.
T. O. MUNSON, V.M.D.
C. L. BLAKELY, V.M.D.
*M. S. ARLEIN, D.V.M.
*L. H. SCAMMAN, D.V.M.

*W. A. WILCOX, D.V.M.

N. L. GREINER, D.V.M.

FRED KEEFE, V.S., B.V.Sc.
WILLIAM B. JONES, V.S., B.V.Sc.
HARRY L. ALLEN, Superintendent

Springfield Branch

Telephone 4-7355
53-57 Bliss Street, Springfield, Mass.

Veterinarians
R. EVANS, V.M.D.
L. LEIGHTON, V.M.D.
B. SlEGLE, D.V.M.
J. KOPP, V.M.D.

*On leave of absence—military service

iii?

 

 

iii




 

 

 

J aly 1944

Rounders

By
MAX MEREDITH

HE ANIMAL that popularly sym-
bolizes Australia is a timid, harm-

less creature. It has been known to
die simply of fright. Yet, driven to it
by its enemies, it has revealed a dramatic
and “human” side of its nature, which
reminds one of nothing so much as an
unforgettable scene in that great dra-
matic spectacle, “Kismet.”

The common gray species, called the
Old Man, is thelargest living of these
amazing [bounders. It has a head about
the size of a sheep, and stands as high
as eight feet. However, there was a
larger, now extinct form of kangaroo
that had a head as large as that of a
Shetland pony, and which stood ten feet
high, and even more.

The kangaroo has a relatively small
head and large ears. Its hind legs are
very long and powerful and these are
adapted to swift covering of ground by
hopping. Normally the distance of each
leap is about six or eight feet, but when
going at full speed each leap may be
three or four times the distance of the
ordinary bound.

The short forelimbs possess great
strength and rarely touch the ground,
except when the animal is feeding. The
tail is long, tapering, and very heavy.
It is used for balancing during the rapid
ground “ﬂight.” In sitting, standing, or
walking, with the body erect, the tail
acts as a prop. In the erect position the
animal is alert to sense danger, and when
alarmed moves off quickly in a series of
great bounds.

Most kangaroos live in open glades and
upon plains. They are entirely vegetable
feeders. Because of their peculiar way
of grazing they are destructive to pas-
tures and growing crops in the sparsely
settled sections of Australia. Their en-
larged median lower incisors point for-
ward and clip the grass or leaves like a
pair of shears.

The number of baby kangaroos pro—
duced at birth is usually but one or two.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Those Amazing

But sometimes there are three. When
born a kangaroo is blind and naked and
exceedingly small—an inch or less in
length.

They are taken by the mother, with
her lips, and placed in the pouch on a
teat, to which they ﬁrmly cling. Inca-
palble of sucking or swallowing, the milk
is pumped down their throats by the
compression of certain muscles of the
mother kangaroo. Their windpipes are
so formed that neither swallowing nor
breathing interfere one with the other.

Entirely helpless to do anything for
themselves, the young remain in the
brood-pouch for weeks, or even months.
At a certain stage in its growth the little
kangaroo leaves the pouch. But not to
venture far. It keeps near its mother,
and whenever it thinks danger threatens
it come-s bounding back to her and the
pouch. It is at this time that it is often
seen with its head protruding from the
pouch.

Kangaroos have ‘been and still are so
relentlessly hunted in some parts of the
continent that they have been practically
exterminated. Hunted because of the
great damage they do, for their ﬂesh, and
for their hides, which make valuable
leather.

When cornered by dogs the larger
species of kangaroos will slash out with
the large claws on its hind feet its
only weapon of defense. And a single
blow, fairly delivered, from its hind foot
will kill the average dog.

The chief enemies of the kangaroo are
man and the native dog, called the dingo.
The animal is naturally meek and inof-
fensive. But when infuriated, it will
seize an enemy by its forefeet, hug him
like a bear, then rip him' with its knife-
like claws.

Or, what the beggar Hajj did to the
scoundrelly Wizir of Police in “Kismet”
—the kangaroo will take him to a water-
hole and hold him under water until he
is drowned.

 

   
    

Page 127

Birds Do Queer Stunts

©NE warm summer day while writing
a letter I was interrupted by peck-
ing sounds against the screen of the win-

dow a few feet behind me. Turning
around, I beheld a strange sight. An
English sparrow, its feet perched

strongly on the sloping roof, was jab-
bing its bill furiously.

Throwing aside the curtain to improve
the view, I saw the object of the bird’s
attention. A good—sized white miller, in-
side the screen and thus quite safe from
fcapture, was ﬂitting here and there. When
'he insect touched the screen the spar-
row would make several furtive jabs at
the quarry, only to meet with disappoint-
ment, of course. For perhaps ﬁve min-
utes this strange scene was enacted. Then
the sparrow caught sight of me and ﬂew
away without making further attempts
to catch his dinner.

Upon another occasion, while sit-ting
in the back yard of my home, I watched
a robin building a nest. The beautiful red-
breasted bird found and carried to the
nesting site all kinds of article-s such as
bits of cloth, string and feathers. Sud-
denly, the ro'bin decided to make use of
a very long piece of string. Gathering
one end in her mouth she ﬂew toward
the tree in which the nest was located.
But she did not travel far. For the far
end of the string was securely caught in
the hedge surrounding the place. The
bird could travel only so far when she
was jerked to the ground, as she was un-
willing to let go of the cord.

Several times the persistent ro‘bin took
the string in her mouth and headed for
the nest. But it was no use. The string
was fastened too tightly. I was just at
the point of helping her out when she
seemed to spot a weakened place in the
string. By pecking and jabbing tirelessly
at it she broke the string in two and ﬂew
off triumphantly with the free portion.
I have an idea she was well pleased with
her amazing conquest. It was a lesson
in persistence, in refusing to give up
under diﬂ‘iculties.

——Henry H. Graham

43

Wet Cement
By CHARLES MORTON

The watchman found them after dark,
Paw prints loud as any bark;

Etched within the still-damp run,
Where they ended, where begun.

He didn't rave or rant or stutter
As the sight he looked upon;
But I heard him softly mutter:

”Doggone!" he said. "Doggone!"

 

 

 




 

April 191,4

Starlings Complete
Their “Conquest”

of America

By KENNETH D. MORRISON

F YOU see a black bird with a long yellow bill, a stubby
tail and a pugnacious disposition, you can be certain that
you’ve just observed the European Starling.

Although it was not reported in Minnesota,_for example,
until 1929, the starling is now far from a rarity in the mid-
west. This “undesirable alien” has spread throughout the
central states and must be listed as a common resident.

The trouble all started when Eugene Schieffelin of New
York City became lonesome for the starlings he had enjoyed
in Europe. If only he had known how often bird and animal
transplants turn out to be the worst kind of pests when moved
from their native environment, he would certainly have left
the starlings in the Old World. But Schieifelin was determined.
After many unsuccessful importations, 160 bird-s ﬁnally estab-
lished themselves in New York City’s Central Park in 1890.
Their spread was slow at ﬁrst, but by 1916 they had crossed
the Appalachian mountains. Since that time the black inter-
lopers have pushed their way across prairie and mountain and
have just recently been reported in eastern California.

A study of the spread of the starling reveals that the bird’s
increase in population is gradual for the ﬁrst ten to ﬁfteen
years after its appearance in a locality. Then there is a sharp
rise for a few years, followed by a slowing up of the increase
rate and apparent stabilization by the twenty-ﬁfth to thirtieth
year. The probability, according to Dr. W. J. Breckenridge
of the Minnesota Museum of Natural History, is that the
starlings will increase considerably more in the central states
before the population becomes stabilized. He even predicts that
they will invade the loops of western cities and become equally
as raucous and pestiferous as their relatives in eastern cities
where municipal authorities have tried everything from Roman
candles to ﬁre hose to disperse the starlings from their roosts—
and usually without success.

Although the starlings have spread over much of the con-
tinent, the English sparrows, also aliens, did a faster job of
becoming entrenched pests. Forty years after their intro-
duction in 1850, the sparrows had completed their conquest of
America, whereas the spread of the starlings is still far from
complete more than ﬁfty years after their release in Central
Park.

Its overbearing, pugnacious nature is one of the reasons for
the starling’s success in its adopted land, for it easily drives
out and usurps the nesting places of more desirable native
birds, such as woodpeckers, bluebirds and purple martins. The
newcomer’s record is not all black, however. Its feeding habits
are largely beneﬁcial, as most of its food consists of harmful
insects and grubs.

The starling can be distinguished from other similar appear- .

ing blackbirds by its bill, tail, and ﬂight. No other blackbird
has a yellow bill nor a stubby tail, and the swift, sustained
ﬂight of the starling is in marked contrast to the undulating
movement of our native blackbirds. After the breeding season,
the starling’s yellow bill darkens until it is nearly black and
in the fall the iridescent purple-greenish feathers become

OUR DUMB

ANIMALS Page69

r/

f..—

.“I“(’L./-\ v—\ '30:? ..
\.' ‘ _ 'I

    
  

/

-- .,..././-

/
l
I (-
b

“A

v *I'
I

   
 

    
     

l ' .. .':,
ml MHMULlllIIIh'" ..

5.
~. |
V -‘\ \t
, . ”a.“
. - v
I .3
.
...‘
\
.0
”n: a

’1'
Pl: '
llll II
"in

\lllll
. i.

 

 

 

tipped with white, giving the birds a mottled appearance dur—
ing the winter months.

Casual observers consider the “song” of the starling to be a
clear Whistle or a rasping note of alarm. Few people realize
that the bird is an adept mimic, that it can repeat the call of
the pewee, bluebird or redwing to perfection. E. H. Forbush
lists 38 birds that are imitated by the starling, and adds that
it can bark like a dog and mew like a cat.

Whether we like it or not, that versatile but pesky blackcoat
—the starling—has completed its “conquest” of America.

&
For Him and His Dog

By GRACE MEREDITH

By streets blacked-out, on toward the unlit park,

In silence without even one quick bark:

The Irish-setter guided in the dark,

And hesitated once, it seemed, to think:

Then led on grass and leaves turned copper-pink,
To reach the fountain where he stopped to drink——

Raising his red-brown head, he pointed straight
Another way back toward the open gate,

That fronts the house where he was told to wait—
He moved through quiet, and his rhythmic tread
Gave steady promise, like the growing spread

Of stars, perhaps a million overhead—

They walked night-after-night not long ago,

In any season’s moonlight, rain or snow,

With livened faith man and his dog can know—

The day his master left for strange new ways,

“Be good," he said, ”and wait—” with trust that stays,
His stalwart dog remembers—and obeys.

 




 

.lzmuary 1941;

l
«P

‘ .- '1-v'....'."'t
«Mm
warm

I ' U
.n/JyI/glldllllll u‘.“ ‘0:

 

How “Blackie” Found a Home
By CHARLOTTE LEHMAN

LACKIE‘ was a little black puppy except for his
paws, which were white. His fur was like black
satin and he had a little white star on his forehead. He
had great big dark eyes and he was hardly seven weeks
old. He was very unhappy. He ran here and there and
could not ﬁnd his home. He couldn’t remember very
much about his home, but he knew that he had been
warm, that he had some little brothers. and sisters to
play with and that he always had plenty to eat. Now
he was lonely and so hungry. He was lost.

It began to rain. Blackie ran up to a step and whined
softly. A big man came to the door and said: “Shoo,”
so loud that Blackie hurried away and hid behind a
bush. He was so frightened he didn’t know what to do.

Then he saw a woman with a big basket. He smelled
something good. He followed her about a block. Then
he began a happy little bark. The woman turned,
stamped her foot hard and said: “Doggy, go home!”
She opened a gate and went in, shutting the gate very
tight. Then she said again: “Go home.”

Poor little Blackie! He felt so lonely when the gate
clicked tight. If he could only find a good warm home.
If somebody only wanted a little, lonely, lost doggy.
As he stood waiting, two big dogs began to chase him.
He was frightened and ran down an alley and hid
behind a big box until the dogs ran away.

He was there quite a while. Then he heard some soft
voices. He crept up to the street. Blackie saw a woman
and a girl. They had such kind faces. One had white
hair. The other, golden brown hair. Maybe, they were
kind, thought Blackie. Perhaps they wanted a little
dog. Blackie crept up softly and followed them. He
was so lonely and so hungry.

Suddenly, the girl turned and saw Blackie.

“Oh, Mother, look at the little stray dog. Why he’s
shivering.”

“Poor little puppy,” said the mother. “How lone-
some he looks.”

“Mother, I’m going to take him home and feed him.”

The girl with the golden brown hair lifted Blackie
carefully and carried him home.

Soon he was drinking some warm milk. It tasted so
good that soon he felt himself getting sleepy. He curled
up on a little rug and went right to sleep. Happy little
Blackie!

After a time, he heard a telephone bell. The little girl
was speaking:

“No, the little dog we found was black with a white
star on its forehead and white feet. Sorry, hope you will
ﬁnd your dog.” ,

Then Blackie heard another conversation over the
telephone:

“Did you lose a black puppy?” A

Blackie listened anxiously. He liked it here. He

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

  

[-
,.
“A

m

 

didn’t want to go away.

“Oh, you say your puppy came home last night. We
thought this little dog was the one mentioned in the lost
column of the newspaper.”

Blackie felt better when he heard no more talking
over the phone. ,

For several days Blackie enjoyed his new home but
he was always anxious when the telephone rang.

But, one day, he heard something that made his little
heart beat happily.

“Daughter, it is two weeks now that we have had
this little puppy. We have asked and telephoned and
no one has claimed him. How about getting a license
for him and calling him our own? He seems to belong
to us.”

“Oh, Mother, goody. I love him more every day.
Perhaps, he was meant for us. Only, I feel sorry for
the people who lost him. He is a darling puppy. I’m
so happy!”

Little Blackie, stretched, then got up and turned
around three times for joy. Soon he was curled up on

his rug, fast asleep, without a care in the world. Now,
Blackie had a home.

 




P6196134 OUR DUMB ANIMALS July/1941;

Lesson in Cheerfulness

BLACK and white kitten, possibly
four months old, gave us a lesson
in cheerfulness the other day in the little
restaurant where we breakfast occa—
_ sionally.
f 3 Usually she comes galloping at the
* sound of our voice, and curls up in our
8E mm l9 YOUR "038E lap; this morning she insisted on tussling
. Malayalam With the fur coat we’d. hung over the
éézaglimmﬁw iémm . back of our chair. Poss1bly she thought
gs...‘;...-.;§Wzsm, ' - it was her mammal
sslammis‘éw‘mm We didn’t want our coat clawed, so we
Weammwmwmaiamétimiw detached the kitten from it and hung it
w r5325aimsesteemlgsgags,' up out of her reach. Did that kitten cry
lilaggs:...:w:;:23ng and whine and howl, as many .‘children
Irm;gel-,{gggggmggyg.m man: would, when we took her playthmg from
‘::+ w her? She did not. She jumped up into
our lap again and purred herself to sleep.
—Elisabeth van Praag Dudley

41%

That Man!

IETZE,” 15—year-old dog, certainly
can’t read, but she does understand
English and, somehow, 'Dietze has learned
‘ “ " " i to detest Herr Hitler. She reveals this
HORSE AND RIDER INSPECT PROTECTIVE RULES AND REGULATIONS sentlrrlent all too Plamly, when, t9§8m€
With the return of the horse to replace motor-driven vehicles. due to the gasoline 11.61. blls Ff melat, hf: 11233;? sayih' Thls
and tire shortages. and with the renewed interest in horseback riding. the Mas- plece 1s rom res1 en 180m. IS one
. . . rom Coolidge and so on up the lme. All
sachusetts S. P. C. A. appeals to all rIders and drivers to be land to then horses. and these morsels she gulps with delight. But
calls attention to certain rules and regulations for the animals' well-being and comfort. when her master says, “this piece is from
Shown scanning one of the Society's, posters at "The Paddocks." riding academy in Mil- Hitler,” she disdainfully turns up her
ton. is twelve-year-old Josephine Smith. attractive daughter of the proprietor. with her nose. —Lew York
beautiful horse. "Silver Tail.ll Similar placards are advantageously displayed in stables
and riding schools thrOughout the Commonwealth. and Society prosecuting officers are
constantly on the alert for neglect and abuse. a situation frequently encountered.
especially among inexperienced riders and drivers.

4%

“Bum”

From “Cheerio,” Author Unknown

He’s a little dog with a stubby tail, and a moth-eaten coat of tan,

And his legs are of the wobbly sort, I doubt if he ever ran;

And he howls at night, while in broad daylight he sleeps like a blooming log
And he likes the feed of a gutter breed, he’s a most irregular dog.

 

 

 

 

 

33‘. 3

   

.v,‘

 

 

 

I call him “Bum," and in total sum, he’s all that his name implies,

For he's just a tramp, with a highway stamp, that culture cannot disguise,

And his friends, I’ve found in the streets abound, be they urchins or dogs or men,
Yet he sticks to me, with a fiendish glee; it is tricky beyond ken.

I talk to him when I'm lonesome like and I'm sure that he understands
When he looks at me so attentively and gently licks my hands,

Then he rubs his nose on my tailored clothes but I never say ought thereat
For the good Lord knows, I can buy more clothes, but never a friend like that.

 

So my good old pal, my irregular dog, my stub-tailed friend, A t. Ph t
Has become a part of my very heart, to be cherished till lifetime’s end, ' 305““ sunday dver 1391‘ 0 0

And on judgment day, if I take the way where the righteous stay, YOUNGSTERS COME TO CALL
If my dog is barred by the Heavenly guard, we'll both of us have to pray. Two-year—old John Edward Prall. Jr.-. of

—Reprinted by Request Milton. Mass.. presents his kitten to Hospital
' attendant James A. Scott for inspection.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

- , c; ;,,; v» :1‘.", ~ muzz:zxzt-tzn-zm—f.1.1;r.:....~..;.-2~., A,:—-:..

Page 18

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Humane Education
By LAURA A. DANIELS

Principal, Tapley School, Springﬁeld, Mass.

subject, reaching far into the world,

one means of developing character
traits. Certainly, in these times, the sub-
ject is tremendous and has innumerable
ramiﬁcations. The best of the world’s
youth is facing each other in a terrible
war. People of Greece and China are
starving. Race prejudice is prevalent. A
child is jeered by his fellows for expres-
sing a conviction contrary to those of
the group. Does Humane Education enter
. in these cases? Where, in fact, does it
stop; where does it begin?

I SEE Humane Education as a broad

Humane Education, in my opinion,
should start with the training of the
child. Perhaps wars are started by men,
who, as little children, did not grow
wholesome interests, develop right at-
titudes; who did not have healthful, satis—
fying experiences; who did not learn to
accept the responsibilities of their own
actions. If little children could learn
to be kind to each other and to the
creatures around them, mankind might
be kinder and more unselﬁsh.

As to methods of teaching, this work
starts with sharing interesting experi—
ences and it continues by integrating
closely all the natural activities of the
child. It is so integrated with the entire
school work, that it is difﬁcult to tell
where one subject ends and humane
education begins.

In the early fall, one may see groups
of children out on nature walks. They
may be studying changes of the seasons,
or looking for any insects that may be
about. Usually this experience is plan—
ned so they may bring back to the class—
room grasshoppers and crickets. Children
then have the responsibility of feeding

tlgese pets and of making them comfort—
a 1e.

In the family garden or by the road-
side, the carrot caterpillar, tomato worm,
or milkweed worm may be found and
brought into school. These must be fed.
The children watch the fascinating proc—
ess of the making of the cocoon or
Chrysalis. Another class found a spider.
A wire cage was provided and you can
hardly imagine the interest that devel-
oped as the spider spun a beautiful web
across the cage.

Carrying on this work means that
teachers must be alert and ready for any-
thing—alert to grasp any opportunity
that presents itself. A group of boys
came in excited over What Pete had in
his pocket. Out came a green snake. The
teacher cannot be afraid. “John, you go
to the closet and get the cage.” She
clears a table and soon the snake is under

restraint. Next they must ﬁnd a book
that tells what kind of a snake it is, if
it is useful, what are its needs. The proj-
ect has become a reading lesson, lan-
guage, probably writing and art.

One day a man was leading a sheep
past one of the schools. Out rushed the
teacher who begged him to bring the
animal in for the children to see. A
visit to all the rooms was made, the
braver children putting their hands on
the sheep, the more timid ones just
watching. This sheep, then, according
to the age and grade of the children, be—
came lessons in social studies, language,
reading, etc. Where did Humane Educa-
tion begin and end? No one knows.

When cold weather comes, interest
turns to domestic pets. The children
bring their own pets to school. Pictures
appear on the bulletin boards, food is
put on the ﬂoor and stories about cats or
dogs are on the library table.

In one class, the children wanted a
pet to keep in school and the Park De-
partment loaned a white rabbit, this ani-
mal decided upon after oral language
discussion by the group. A committee
was chosen to be responsible for his
food, another committee, for keeping the
cage clean.

After a week, the class wrote letters
to other classes to see if they wanted to
borrow the pet and if they would take
good care of him. Each day the original
committees went to see if the pet was
having the proper care.

We also use motion pictures showing
the adventures of dogs, beaver, farm
animals, water insects, butterﬂies and
moths, and many others. By spring, out-
door study begins again. In the third and
fourth grades, silkworm eggs are brought
from storage and their cycle is the center
of interest. In some rooms, each row of
children has its own silkworm, and the
contest is on to see which worm will
grow the fastest.

In the spring and fall, teachers are
encouraged to bring in water life, such
as back swimmers, water boatmen, polly-
wogs, etc. Anything that serves her pur-
pose she feels free to use.

Sometimes, the work starts the other

way around from these illustrations. A
grade studies farm life compared to
city life. Farm animals make a part of
this unit. The fortunate school in the
pre-war days went to the farm to see
the animals.

In studying the settlement of our coun-
try, besides the history side of the sub-
ject, the children discuss the animals
found here. They may go to a nearby

January 1 944

grocer’s to see turkeys; to the museum
or the park to see bear, deer, etc.

If, through this work, we can broaden
children’s interests; if right attitudes
can be developed; if, through the knowl—
edge gained, children can understand and
appreciate the life around them, haven’t
we started them on the road to being
more humane citizens? A program of
Humane Education, through fostering
kindness to animals, can help build char-
acter if, after stimulating feelings of
kindness toward animals, the child is
given an opportunity for doing some-
thing about it, by actual contact with,
and care of animals. This forms the
background of our teaching procedure.
The program is an activity program,
actually concerned with ﬁrst-hand con-
tacts with animal life of all kinds. Devel—
oping in children a love for animals,
thoughtfulness for their needs and a feel-
ing of responsibility towards these
creatures dependent on them, is all a part
of developing desirable character traits.

Next month we shall publish Miss
Daniels’ outline to be used in supple—
menting and enriching the course of .
study in elementary science.

a
@119 Tﬁanh nf illirrrg nr

3111mm 151mm» 4112mm

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
ERIC H. HANSEN, Executive Vice-President
WILLIAM A. SWALLOW, Secretary

PLEDGE

I will try to be kind to all living crea-
tures and try to protect them from cruel
usage.

The American Humane Education So—
ciety will send to every person Who forms
a Band of Mercy of thirty members, and
sends the name chosen for the Band and
the name and post-ofﬁce address of the
president who has been duly elected, special
Band of Mercy literature and a gilt badge
for the president.

NEW BANDS OF MERCY
Three hundred and twenty—eight Bands
of Mercy were organized during Novem-
ber. These were distributed as follows:

Georgia ................. . 106
Pennsylvania .............. 62
New York . _ ............... 54
Florida .................... 44
Virginia 27
Texas 27
Michigan ................. 4
New Jersey ................. 3
California ............ 1

Total number Bands of Mercy organ-
ized by Parent-American Society, 267,234.
SUMMARY OF FIELD WORK

Number of addresses made, 191
Number of persons in audiences, 19,758

 

 




 

 

 

MULLER RENDERING
COMPANY

will collect your

Dead Horses and Cows

at short notice

Telephones, Klelond 0061, 1261

AUGUST SILVERY

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Established 1875
J. F. HERNE CO.

Sawdust, Baled Shavings
Sweeping Compound

Excelsior

. EVERETT
Telephone, EVEret’r 3652-3629

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Ready Reference

Nothing is so disconcerting as a
futile search for a particularly
desired copy of Our Dumb Animals.

Perhaps there was an issue that
you just didn’t get around to read;
perhaps you wanted to refer to
some particular article, story or
poem; perhaps you wanted to save
each issue for your children’s educa—
tion. Whatever it was, a copy or
two have become lost.

Here is a chance to maintain a
permanent ﬁle in your private
library, by buying a bound volume
of the 1943 issues. There you will
have ready reference to the many
informative articles on nature and
animal care. It will be an invalu-
able aid to your children in their
school work.

Furthermore, these volumes make
splendid gifts, especially to school
and public libraries. But whatever
the reason, send your order now for
the desired number of bound vol-
umes of

OUR DUMB ANIMALS for 1943
240 pages; 200 illustrations of
animals. and birds
Price ......... $1.50
180 Longwood Ave., Boston 15, Mass.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Humane Literature and Band of Mercy Supplies

For sale by the American Humane Education Society and the Massachusetts S. P. C. A.

180 Longwood Avenue, Boston 15, Mass., at these prices, postpaid.

Titles in bold-face type are of books or booklets

Our Dumb Animals, 1943, bound volume $1.50
Colored Posters, 17 x 28 inches, attrac-

tive pictures and verses, six in set . . 1.00
Colored Posters, 17 x 22 inches, eight in

the set .............. 5 cts. each; eight for 35 cts.

About the Horse

Care'of the Horse ...................... $1.25 per 100
Humane Education Leaﬂet, No. 5 . .. .. . .50 “ “
The Horse’s Prayer .................... .30 “ “

The Bell of Atri, poem by Longfellow .. .50 “ “

The Shame of It—Mutilating the horse
by setting up his tail. Dr. Rowley.
Four illus., 4 pp. ................... Free

About the Dog
Eulogy on the Dog, by Vest, post-card . .$O.50 per 100
Care of the Dog ....................... .75 “ “
Suggestions for Feeding Dogs .......... 1.50 “ “
Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 3 and 4 .50 “ “
“Don” and His Boy Scout Friends, J. P.

Lyons ............................... .50 “ “
The Story of Barry ................... .30 " “
Boots’ Day, play, for two boys and three

girls ................. 3 cts. each; ﬁve for 10 cts.
Distemper in Dogs, Dr. Schneider Free

About the Bird
The Birds of God, 318 pp., illus. ....... cloth, $0.45
Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 1 and 2.30.50 per 100
How the Birds Help the Farmer ........ .50 “ ”
The Air-Gun and the Birds ............ .50 “ “
About the Cat
Care of the Cat ..................... $0.75 per 100
The Cat in Literature ................ .50 “ “
Do Not Leave Your Cat to Starve ..... .50 “ “

“The Beggar Cat,” post-card, 6 cts. doz. .50 “ “

About Other Animals

Care of Animals During Air Raids Free
Farm Animals During Air Raids ....... Free
Do You Know About This? ............ Free

First Aid to Animals, Dr. Schneider, 8 pp. .$1.00 per 100
How to Kill Animals Humanely, 4 pp. . . .75 “ “
Humane Education Leaﬂet, No. 6, Animals .50 “ “
Humane Education Leaﬂet, No. 7, Farm

Animals ............................ .50 “ “
Ways of Kindness ............. -. ....... .75 “ “
Care of Rabbits ....................... .30 “ “
Cruelty at Eastertime .. .. .. . . . . . .75 “ “
Professor Frog’s Lecture, 8 pp. ........ .75 “ “
Why the Toad is so Useful .30 “ “
Hints on the Care of Cows ............ .50 “ “
Directions for the Care of Swine ....... 1.00 “ ”

A Wise Fish

The Jack London Club
Michael Brother of Jerry, Jack London, cloth, 75 cts.

What is the Jack London Club? ........ $0.30 per 100
Foreword from ‘ ‘Michael Brother of
Jerry” .............................. .30 “ “

Do Wild Animals Prefer Captivity? Helen

Trevelyan, 4 pp. .................... .50 “ “
Films, Fakes and Facts, Helen Trevelyan,
4 pp. ............................... .50 “ “

Humane Education
Humane Education, by Dr. Francis E.

Rowley .............................. Free
The Relation of the Home to Character

Formation, Dr. Francis H. Rowley . . . . Free .
The Animal or the Child, Dr. Rowley ’ Free
Humane Education and Spiritual Values,

Dr. Rowley ......................... Free
A Great Prophecy, Dr. Rowley ......... Free
Kindness and Humane Education . . . . . . 31.00 per 100
Kindness Picture Book, 32 pp. ......... 10 cts.

The Teacher’s Helper in Humane Educa-
tion, 32 pp. ......................... each, 10 cts.

An Early Start to Kindness, Lucia F.
Gilbert, 48 pp. For ﬁrst and second
grades .............................. each, 10 cts.

“Be Kind to Animals” pennants ....... each, 25 cts.

The Humane Idea, Dr. Francis H. Rowley
cloth, 35 cts.

Friends and Helpers (selections for school
use) Sarah J. Eddy .................. cloth, $1.20

The B—K—T—A—Club, play, 3 cts. each; ten for 25¢.
“And a Little Child Shall Lead Them,"

play ...................... 3 cts. each; ten for 25c.
I’ll Never Hunt Again, play 3 cts. each; ﬁve for 10 cts.
The Best Gift, play ....... 2 cts. each; six for 10 cts.
Let Us Have Pets! play, for three boys

and three girls .......... 2 cts each; six for 10 cts.
Humane Exercises ...... I ............... $1.50 per 100

Humane Education the Vital Need, Dr.
Rowley, short radio address, 2 cts. each. $0.50 per 100

Humane Education, What to Teach and

How to Teach It .................... .50 ” “
A Talk with the Teacher .............. .50 “ "
Our Love for Animals, a short radio

address .................. 2 cts. each; 1.00 “ "
A Festival of Tender Mercies .......... .50 “ “
How to Organize a Society for the Pro- “ ..

tection of Animals .................. .50

Bookmark, with “A Humane Prayer" .. 1.00 “ "

Twenty Years of Be Kind to Animals
Week, Guy Richardson . .3 cts. each; ten for 25 cts.

Band of Mercy

“Be Kind to Animals” Buttons,

S. P. C. A .. ......$1.00per100
Badges, gold ﬁnish, large, 10 cts., small 5 cts.
“Band of Mercy” pennant ............. 25 cts.
Songs of Happy Life (56 pages, words

only) ............................... $3.00 per 100
Band of Mercy Membership Card ...... .50 “ “
How to Form Bands of Mercy ......... .50 “ “

Does It Pay, Story of one Band of Mercy .30 “ “
Band of Mercy Register 10 cts.

Our Dumb Animals, monthly publication of our
Societies, $1 per year.

Please enclose remittance with orders for less than 51

AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
180 Longwood Ave., Boston 15, Mass.

 

 

THIS SPACE
CONTRIBUTED

 

 

 

 

 

 

Since 1832
J. S. WATERMAN & SONS, Inc.

ﬂanhertakers
BOSTON—BROOKLINE—CAMBRIDGE

City and out-of-town service

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

From the

PRESIDENT’S DESK

 

 

F you happen to see a moving picture

called “Lassie Come Home,” please
read what is said about it on page 32. It
has been criticised by many people as in—
volving in its production no little cruelty.
The word of Mr. Richard Craven of H01-
lywood, the representative of the Ameri-
can Humane Association, who witnessed
its production can be absolutely trusted.

Yet the picture certainly portrays
scenes which represent what appears to
be cruel treatment of the two dogs. Vari-
ous tricks are rescrtcd LO, to produce
these effects. This is unfortunate. Even
the appearance of cruelty to animals
should not be portrayed upon the screen.

&

0 one among earth’s millions would

have been more surprised, had he
been there, than George Thorndike An—
gel] to see a large liberty ship slide down
the ways, as it did at Portland, January
8, and into the ocean bearing his name.
A liberty ship is not a battleship.

43

HE HOUR demands the brave, rever-

ent, even cheerful heart. He who
may strike no blow upon the battleﬁeld,
heal no wound where the suffering sol-
dier lies, can carry into the daily life of
store and shop and ofﬁce this heart. So
he too will serve his country and his

time.
a

HAT something happened long cen-
turies ago on the plains of Bethlehem
that has changed humanity’s outlook into
the future, no matter how full of gloom
its present may seem, few men will deny.

a

HE sacriﬁces made for this war, and

the spirit with which we have entered
it, will be our deliverance from much of
the materialism that has justly been
charged against us as a people.

“S. S. GEORGE T. ANGELL”

NEW and beautiful Liberty Ship
1 slid down the ways recently at
South Portland, Maine, bearing the proud
name of George T. Angell. Where its
journeys will take it and what its fate
will be we, of course, do not know, but
perhaps you will agree with us that it is
signiﬁcant that this ship should bear the
name of the one who spread the gospel
of kindness to the far corners of the
world.

We are grateful to Admiral Land for
the honor conferred upon our Society by
having this ship named for its founder.
Tum to page 25 for more details.

We Say It Again

ES, and we doubtless shall have to

say it still again—that the humane
societies of this'and other lands stand
for a cause transcendingly greater than
multitudes ever understand. Just cat
and dog societies? Is that all they are?
Have they no higher aim than to make
a little less hard the lot of life’s lowly
children—beast and bird? Even if that
were all their goal, would it be unworthy
of the thought and endeavor of even the
wise and thoughtful, when one remem—
bers the debt we owe the beast of the
ﬁeld and the fowl of the air?

Is there any ﬁner virtue than kinda

ness? ,Have the wars and woes from
which, the world has suffered from time
immemorial found their causes in the
wills and ambitions of men of good will
and kindly service to their fellow mor-
tals? Yes, Societies for the Prevention
of Cruelty to Animals do care for the
often defenseless children of land and
sea and air, but more by far, than What
it means to beast and bird, is the reac-
tion upon the characters of the men and
women and children of this ennobling
and redeeming grace of kindness.

This is the meaning and the supreme
purpose of what is more and more being
known as Humane Education—the awak-
ening in the heart of youth of what we
have called this great virtue—Kindness.

The Other Side

T’S the other side of the dog we mean.
The inside, if you please, rather than
the outside. It’s the side seen by his
friends who forget his external appear-
ance, the color of his coat, the lines that
tell of pedigree and breeding. To them
he is a living thing that loves and an-
swers to those who love him with a de-
votion and a ﬁdelity that make friendship
possible. “Exterminate them!” say some
——“all the mongrel curs that never ought
to have been born. If you are going to
have dogs let them be the aristocrats of
dog-dom whose lineage you can trace.”
Why bless your heart, you who have only
known dogs of “high degree,” some of
the noblest of the canine race have sprung
from parents as lowly as want and pov-
erty and lack of fame could make them.
There are “curs” on our streets that you
could trust for their good temper, their
loyalty and unselﬁshness to an extent
that would make a multitude of your hu—
man kind seem like savages beside them.

1%

He’s No Fanatic

E’S a ﬁne business man, widely

known for his business integrity
and generosity—and with all that, an un-
usual lover of animals. Every little while
he appears here at our Hospital with
some unfortunate stray, lost dog to be
given proper care.

Ready to take the train recently at one
of our railroad stations here, he noticed,
racing back and forth over the platform
as if abandoned and bewildered, a little
dog. He took it up in his arms, went out,
engaged a taxi, brought it here to the
Hospital, left it until a good home could
be found for it.

We are not disclosing his name be-
cause that would displease him. Further-
more he not only insists upon paying the
bills incurred on account of any of the
patients he brings us, but his generous
contributions for the Society’s work al—
ways largely exceed the Hospital charges.

 




 

 

 

 

 

Page 98

611;? Ila’anh nf Mary nr

3111mm ﬁumanr iﬁragm

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
ERIC H. HANSEN, Executive Vice-President
WILLIAM A. SWALLOW, Secretary

PLEDGE

I will try to be kind to all living crea-
tures and try to protect them from cruel
usage.

The American Humane Education So-
ciety will send to every person who forms
a Band of Mercy of thirty members, and
sends the name chosen for the Band and
the name and post-oﬂice address of the
president who has been duly elected, special
Band of Mercy literature and a gilt badge
for the president.

NEW BANDS OF MERCY

Two hundred and twenty-eight Bands
of Mercy were organized during March.
These were distributed as follows:

New Hampshire ............. 87
Georgia ..................... 35
Florida .................... - 31
Virginia . . ................. 31
Massachusetts .............. 27
Pennsylvania . . . ...... 15
Illinois . . . ................. 1
Washington ................

Total number Bands of Mercy organ-
ized by Parent-American Society, 267,946.

SUMMARY OF FIELD WORK
Number of addresses made, 172
Number of persons in audiences, 20,496

Pigeons versus Telephones
ITH characteristic ingenuity, Al
Jacobson, manager of an auto sup-

ply house in South Gate, California,
solved both the gasoline problem and the
telephone problem facing his business,
with the help of his prize-winning car-
rier pigeons. '

Last November, Jacobson and associ-
ates moved the business to a new loca-
tion, and then discovered that they would
have to wait their turn to have a tele-
phone installed. There was a long line
before them, most of them war orders,
and a telephone promised to be tardy in
arriving. The business, conducted largely
by telephone orders, looked pretty hope-
less. Customers thought they were out
of business, and it looked as if they
would be.

Then Jacobson got his bright idea. He
built special crates, and as customers
came in, solemnly gave them a crate with
a pigeon inside. The recipients dubiously
took the birds home, and as they needed
supplies, released a bird with a message
attached. It worked!

Not one of the birds failed to arrive,
and the average trip from customer to
store took about ﬁve minutes. The busi—
ness is booming along now Jacobson
says that the customers are intrigued
with the idea because it saves them gaso—
line.

~Helen Combs

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

“No Greater Love”

WHEN the people of a great nation

at war take time out to applaud
the heroism of a boy; when the news-
papers and broadcasting stations of the
country give time and space to report
that same self-sacriﬁce—then, assuredly,
that nation and its people are funda-
mentally sound.

And just that is what happened in
March, when the story of Herbert Grif-
ﬁn and “Flossie,” ten-month-old fox ter-
rier, of Birmingham, Alabama, came to
light. What happened? Well, Herbert
risked his life to save Flossie from death.
But there is more to it than that.

Herbert, thirteen, was riding his
“bike” along the car line, accompanied
by Flossie, who, terrier-like, was frisk-
ing about gleefully. All at once she ran
ahead and out onto a trestle. It was then
that the boy saw a car hurtling toward
her. Flossie was so tiny, the spaces so
wide and the ditch so deep that she
couldn’t save herself. She seemed doomed.

Herbert stood the test. His was more
than a humane act. It was the innate
gesture of sacriﬁce for love of his
brother, Eddie, ill since birth with a
heart aﬁ‘liction. Eddie is ﬁve and owns
Flossie. Herbert realized a shock might
prove fatal to him. Add to this, his own
love for Flossie. Herbert says, “She be-

 

M ay 19.44

 

"FLOSSIE" VISITS HERBERT IN THE HOSPITAL

By S. N. JONES

longs to all of us.”

Thinking only of the dog and of his
brother, the boy dashed onto the trestle,
grabbed the dog, but fell under the car,
still holding her. His left foot was
crushed as the car passed over and
cleared his body. Amputation followed.

At the hospital, Herbert’s chief worry
was the fact that Flossie refused to eat.
He was overjoyed when the little dog
came to see him. In a letter he addressed
to “Dear Everybody,” Herbert said,
“Flossie is eating again and doing as
well as possible.”

The story mad-e front page news in
papers as far away as Anchorage, Alaska,
and a CBS national hook-up saluted him
on March 16. His mail deluges him.
There were letters from philanthropists,
dog fanciers, little boys, university
heads, even whole classrooms. One letter
with no stamps got the postmaster’s
okeh; another addressed to “Hero of
Birmingham” and one with Herbert’s
picture on the envelope reached him with-
out delay.

This iS‘ the story of a brave boy—~a
boy who was willing to give his life, if
necessary, to save that of a dog and to
prevent his little brother from any possi-
ble shock. Of such ﬁbre Americans are
made.

 




 

 

 

July 191,4

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

The Unique Antelope

By EDITHA L. WATSON

HE ﬂeet and graceful antelopes

which still inhabit our western plains

in considerable numbers are a de—
light to behold. With their distinctive
pronged horns and their odd, character-
istic throat marking, white rumps and
delicate hooves, they form an attractive
wildlife picture that no beholder can
ever forget. In early days, the Indians
found them so beautiful that they fre—
quently used likenesses of them in paint-
ings.*

Wary and clever, antelopes have found
ways of circumventing all enemies save
severe drought or unusually frigid
weather. Under such conditions they will
associate with sheep or cattle and share
their food; even, it is recorded, wintering
with them in barns. One beautiful large
animal, which is known to have ranged
over eastern Colorado for the past twenty-
four years, eats with cattle whenever the
weather makes foraging difﬁcult.

However, the fact that they trust man-
kind when necessity drives them to it

 

Caretaker

By MARY AGNES COLVILLE

Our neighbor’s pet depends on me,
To feed it every day—

! hurry to the house next door,
Before I start my play——

I know just where the key is kept,
Way underneath the mat,

And when Puss hears me coming,
Oh! What a happy cat!

Then after kitty’s breakfast,

I clean each dish with care—
While Puss romps in the sunshine,
Or combs her silky hair——

And when I’ve aired her bedding
Puss then goes right to sleep,
And walking out on tip-toe,

Away l softly creep,

My duties as caretaker,

I never once will shirk,

So Mr. Brown and Mrs. Brown,
Won’t worry while at work.

has not caused the antelopes to become
any less cautious of hunters. Their ﬂeet-
ness is almost legendary. Recently a
farmer declared that he paced an ante—
lope with his car, and that it ran at a
rate of 55 miles an hour. It is said by
close observers that after an antelope
baby is two days old, it can outrun any
enemy. Instinct has taught the antelopes
to keep near fences and gulches, where
there are better opportunities of bafﬂing
pursuers. They also make use of pro-
tective coloration, apparently realizing
that an antelope lying with its head to-
ward a person is practically invisible.
Since they can easily subsist on rain or
dew on the grass, they do not frequent
waterholes, except during a time of
drought, and thus avoid meeting with
more enemies.

Like cattle, these wild creatures of the
prairie will charge coyotes and a killer
will take to its heels before the onslaught
of a mother antelope whose little one has
been menaced.

All of the above traits are more or less
common to many other animals, but ante-
lopes stand alone when it comes to their
unique horns. In fact, the only other ani—
mal in the world whose horns resemble
theirs is the rhinoceros.

The antelope horn is composed of three
parts. First comes a straight, bony core,
ﬁve or siX inches long, which grows from
the skull. This core, which is never shed,
is overspread with a sheath of skin cov-
ered with ﬁne hair, a continuation of the
antelope’s scalp.

The skin enclosing the bony core exudes
a glutinous, bloody substance, which in

Q

' Page 129

 

turn hardens and becomes the pronged
horn characteristic of the antelopes. Why
this horn material should grow into
pronged shape while the core does not,
is one of nature’s mysteries. The pronged
outer horn is shed annually.

Many observers claim that antelopes do
not shed their horns. This idea is partly
due to the permanent core, which is never
shed, and partly to the fact that the
pronged horns, being formed only of
bloody substance and hairs, “weather”
rapidly, and soon after being shed assume
the appearance of pieces of dry, weather-
beaten wood, not easily recognizable as
horns.

W illustrations are reproduced from orig-

inal paintings on pottery by permission of the Peabody
Museum of Harvard University.

Dog Adepts Scarecrow as Master

ONFIRMING any of the govern-

mental statements of a shortage of
manpower is the story from Corvallis,
Oregon, of a tiny black puppy that
adopted a scarecrow for its master.

The scarecrow, with its paper sack
head, r‘aggedy shirt and trousers, and
ﬂoppy gloves for hands, was contributed
by B. C. Irvine to protect his victory
garden. One day, Mr. Irvine discovered
in his garden the little dog which, al-
though both hungry and thirsty, seemed
to have a strange attraction for the scare-
crow. The puppy romped at its feet,
barked up at him and placed his little
feet affectionately on the limp trousers.
Mr. Irvine inquired around the neighbor-
hood but no one seemed to know anything
about the dog. He concluded that it must

be an orphan which had suddenly decided
to adopt the scarecrow.

In pity for the homeless waif, Charles
Welsh, a neighboring farmer, took the
dog home to care for him. Two days
later, however, he found the puppy [back
yelping ecstatically at the feet of his
beloved scarecrow man and running to it
for protection when any human ap-
proached or threatened again to separate
him from an inanimate chum.

The story ends in that victory garden
outside of Corvallis, where a black dog
lavishes the love of his canine heart on
an inanimate scarecrow with ﬂoppy
gloves. Who knows, perhaps the very
discarded clothes of the make-believe man

.once belonged to a kind master.

——Edna Mae DeMarce

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

Ready Reference

Nothing is so disconcerting as a
futile search for a particularly
desired copy of Our Dumb Animals.

Perhaps there was an issue that
you just didn’t get around to read;
perhaps you wanted to refer to
some particular article, story or
poem; perhaps you wanted to save
each issue for your children’s educa-
tion. Whatever it was, a copy or
two have become lost.

Here is a chance to maintain a
permanent ﬁle in your private
library, by buying a bound volume
of the 1943 issues. There you Will
have ready reference to the many
informative articles on nature and
animal care. It will be an invalu-
able aid to your children in their
school work.

Furthermore, these volumes make
splendid gifts, especially to school
and public libraries. But Whatever
the reason, send your order now for
the desired number of bound vol-
umes of

OUR DUMB ANIMALS for 1943
240 pages; 200 illustrations of
animals and birds

Price .......... $1.50
180 Longwood Ave., Boston 15, Mass.

 

 

 

 

 

KIN DN ESS BLOT‘TERS

The new edition of our Be Kind
to Animals Week blotter is just off
the press.

Its appropriate illustration and
Kindness Week message, printed
in red and black on gray blotting
has a universal appeal.

Price, ﬁfty cents a hundred.

Order now from

American Humane Education
Society

180 Longwood Ave., Boston 15, Mass.

 

 

 

 

 

 

Humane Films

There are no better silent humane
pictures than

THE BELL OF ATRI

illustrating Longfellow’s poem of
the same title
and

IN BEHALF OF ANIMALS

showing the practical work of the
Massachusetts S. P. C. A., its Rest
Farm for Horses at Methuen, and
the Angel] Animal Hospital
For terms of sale or rent, address

Secretary, 180 Longwood Ave.
Boston

 

 

 

Humane Literature and Band of Mercy Supplies

For sale by the American Humane Education Society and the Massachusetts S. P. C. A.

180 Longwood Avenue, Boston 15, Mass., at these prices, postpaid.

Titles in bold-face type are of books or booklets

Our Dumb Animals, 1942, bound volume $1.00
Our Dumb Animals, 1940 and 1941,

bound volume, each .75
Colored Posters, 17 x 28 inches, attrac-

tive pictures and verses, six in set .. 1.00
Colored Posters, 17 x 22 inches, eight in

the set .............. 5 cts. each; eight for 35 cts.

About the Horse

Care of the Horse ...................... $1.25 per 100
Humane Education Leaﬂet, No. 5 . . . . . . .50 “ “
The Horse’.sPrayer....... .30 “ “
The Bell of Atri, poem by Longfellow .. .50 “ “
The Shame of It—Mutilating the horse

by setting up his tail. Dr. Rowley.

Fourillus., 4pp. Free

About the Dog
Distemper in Dogs . . .. .. . . . Free
Eulogy on the Dog, by Vest, post- -card ..$0.50 per 100
Care of the Dog ....................... .75 “ “
Suggestions for Feeding Dogs .......... 1.50 “ “

Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 3 and 4 .50 ” “
“Don” and His Boy Scout Friends, J. P.

Lyons .......................... .50 “ “
Boots’ Day, .play,” for two boys and three

girls .3 cts. each; ﬁve for 10 cts.

About the Bird

The Birds of God, 318 pp., illus. ....... cloth, $0.45
Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 1 and 2.$O.50 per 100

How the Birds Help the Farmer ........ .50 “ “

The Air-Gun and the Birds ... .. .. . . ... .50 “ “
About the Cat

Care of the Cat ....................... $0.75 per 100

The Cat in Literature ................. .50 “ “

Do Not Leave Your Cat to Starve ..... .50 “ “

“The Beggar Cat,” post-card, 6 cts. doz. .50 “ “

About Other Animals

Duration Feeding of the Dog and Cat.. Free
Care of Animals During Air Raids Free
Farm Animals During Air Raids ....... Free
Do You Know About This? ............ Free
First Aid to Animals, Dr. Schneider, 8 pp..$1.00 per 100
How to Kill Animals Humanely, 4 pp. . . .75 “ “

Humane Education Leaﬂet, No. 6, Animals .50 “ “

Ways of Kindness ..................... .75 “ “

Humane Education Leaﬂet, No. 7, Farm

Animals ............................ .50 “ “
Care of Rabbits .. .30 “ “

Professor Frog’s Lecture 8 pp. .75 “ “
Why the Toad is so Useful .30 “ “

The Jack London Club
Michael Brother of Jerry, Jack London, cloth, 75 cts.

What is the Jack London Club? ........ $0.30 per 100
Foreword from ‘ ‘Michael Brother of
Jerry” .............................. .30 “ “

Do Wild Animals Prefer Captivity? Helen

Trevelyan, 4 pp .50 u ..

Humane Education

The Animal or the Child, Dr. Rowley .. . Free
Humane Education, by Dr. Francis H.

Rowley .............................. Free
The Relation of the Home to Character

Formation, Dr. Francis H. Rowley . . .. Free
Humane Education and Spiritual Values,

Dr. Rowley ......................... Free
A Great Prophecy, Dr. Rowley . ...... Free

Kindness and Humane Education ... .. .. .$1.00 per 100

Care and Kindness for Our Animal

Friends, 32 pp. , paper covers, many
illus. . .. . . . .10I cts. each; twelve for $1.00

Kindness Picture Book, 32 pp., 10 cts.; 12 for $1.00

The Teacher’s Helper in Humane Educa-
tion, 32 pp. . each, 10 cts.

An Early Start to Kindness, Lucia F.
Gilbert, 48 pp. For ﬁrst and second
grades .............................. each, 10 cts.

“Be Kind to Animals” pennants ....... each, 25 cts.

The Humane Idea, Dr. Francis H. Rowley
cloth, 35 cts.

Friends and Helpers (selections for school
use) Sarah J. Eddy .................. cloth, $1.20

The B—K—T—A—Club, play, 3 cts. each; ten for 25c.

“And a Little Child Shall Lead Them,” ’
play ...................... 3 cts. each; ten for 25c.

I’ll Never Hunt Again, play 3 cts. each; ﬁve for 10 cts.
The Best Gift, play ....... 2 cts. each; six for 10 cts.

Let Us Have Pets! play, for three boys
and three girls . .. . . .2 cts each; six for 10 cts.

Humane Education the Vital Need, Dr.
Rowley, short radio address, 2 cts. each.$0.50 per 100

Humane Education, What to Teach and

How to Teach It .50 “ “
A Talk with the Teacher .............. .50 “ “
Our Love for Animals, a short radio

address .................. 2 cts. each; 1.00 “ “
A Festival of Tender Mercies .......... .50 “ “
How to Organize a Society for the Pro—

tection of Animals .................. .50 “ “
Bookmark, with “A Humane Prayer” .. 1.00 “ ”

Twenty Years of Be Kind to Animals
Week, Guy Richardson ..3 cts. each; ten for 25 cts.

Band of Mercy

“Be Kind to Animals” Buttons, two
styles—Humane Society or S. P. C. A. .$1.00 per 100

Buttons—white star, Band of Mercy, on
blue ground with gilt letters and border,

one cent each ....................... 1.00 “ “
Badges, gold ﬁnish, large, 10 cts., small 5cts.
“Band of Mercy” pennant . .. 25 cts.
Songs of Happy Life (56 pages, words

only) ............................... $3.00 per 100

Band of Mercy Membership Card ...... .50 “ “
How to Form Bands of Mercy ......... .50 “ “

Please enclose remittance with orders for less than $1

AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
180 Longwood Ave., Boston 15, Mass.

 

 

THIS SPACE
CONTRIBUTED

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Since 1832
J. S. WATERMAN & SON S, Inc.

ﬁduhertakers
BOSTON—BROOKLINE—CAMBRIDGE

City and out-of-town service

 

 

 

 




 

 

August 1944 0 U R D U M B A N I M A L S Page 157

   

        
    
 

   
 

“Milk“

  

 
 

\"

.M ’ ..~..1~'
..« ﬂaw!!!" '.‘

'x
wink-N - _

 
 

:1 ; ':-.‘*
\ - -, . u.-

....oilllll|i1¢|ﬁp"

“unilllllrhhﬂlili

   

- v"
«Mil/1111141111 u m." ‘93 ,
- ' ' .' ' ‘ - 1 ‘ n
‘O‘_ « ' u. .
“\\\\\\\'\

,-_"..,'i" .
" '. :.’.:\
\ I '-

.’ Mmmnmuﬁaﬁ ';

Bullets or Chicken Wire?
By ALFRED I. TOOKE

BET you can’t guess what we have to do this morning,
Bill. t’s something really important.”

Ronnie was certainly excited at having Bill back.
It isn’t everyone who has a big brother back from the
war front, with medals for bravery and wonderful
stories to tell, and now that Ronnie had Bill to himself
at last, he was going to make the most of it.

“What do we have to do, youngster?”

For answer, Ronnie raced upstairs and was down
again in a matter of seconds.

“With this .22 riﬂe of yours we’re going to get a
rabbit that’s been eating our vegetable garden. Mom
wouldn’t let me shoot him. She said I was too young
to handle ﬁrearms, but now you’re home—Boom! He’s
probably in the cabbage patch right now.”

Sure enough a white tail ﬂicked in the cabbage patch
as they approached.

“He went behind the big one, Bill.” Ronnie’s voice
trembled with excitement. “There’s his head. Quick,
Bill. You can’t miss at this distance.”

But Bill’s hands seemed unable to raise the riﬂe and
at last he picked up a pebble instead and tossed it
towards the rabbit, which promptly ﬂicked its tail
again and disappeared through a hole in the fence.

“Aw, Bill! Why did you do that? Now he’s got
away!”

“Sorry, kid. I guess you’ll think I’m pretty much
of a softie, but I just couldn’t shoot that rabbit. You . g ., . .
see, Ron, he never did me any harm. . .” Photo Eugenew Gustafson

“But he eats the garden vegetables, Bill.” '

 

 

“We can fence them oﬂ.’ with chicken wire; "POCKET PIECE"

“Sure, but if you ’d only shot him, Bill . . .

“Afraid I couldn’t, Ron. Look!” Bill pulled up his @
pants leg and Ronnie shuddered at the ugly scar he saw.
“You see, Bill, I know how it feels to be hunted and .
shot by someone who wanted to kill me. I know how At the B1111 Bath
it feels to crawl away somewhere, terribly hurt, and
wait for death to come. Of course, I didn’t die, or I By MABEL HATTON MARKS
wouldn’t be here. Someone found me in time, so I was . .
able to come home at last to Father and Mother and The birds—sack jolly lzttle tbzrzgs!
you. And maybe this rabbit has a mate and some little In my clear garden pool
rabbits he’d like to go home to and play around with. T/oey splash and play,
And after all he only did what was natural for him to Ripplmg the surface with their wings;
do. He didn’t know we planted those vegetables spe- They .preen and dance and flirt
cially, and he didn’t deliberately intend to do us harm, H01) in bop out
so...,well...” ’

Gradually the disappointment faded from Ronnie’s gig/:ZVXZ; 55:56; :lnfgribe €001
face and he grinned. “Okay, Bill. But mind, you have . ’ ‘ 3/ .

, - - - Of spar/cling drops upon the azr,

to help ﬁx that fence. There s old ch1cken w1re beh1nd ,
the garage, so . . .n Bat always wztlo alert

Bill chuckled. “So we’ll use chicken wire instead of Bttgbt glance that darts about
bullets, and live and let live, and everybody’ll be ' F07” danger szgrzals, here and there

happy, eh?” And everywhere.

 

 




 

 

 

Faithful

By ELIZABETH BUTLER LOOSLEY

Illustrated by Clarence Tillenius

EARS ago, at Fort Klamath, Oregon, soldiers
Y trapped a Canada goose and clipped off the ﬁrst
joint of one wing. After the fort was abandoned

this mother goose stayed on.

Each spring her mate would arrive. Together they
would waddle off until he, getting impatient, would
unfold his immense wings and ﬂy ahead, only to drift
back and to walk solicitously with her to the head of
Fort Creek. There, well hidden, they would build their
nest in the reeds. '

Each year, when the downy ﬂuﬂ‘s of gosling were
hatched, the gander took great pride in showing off
his family. He did landguard duty for the whole ﬂock
of Wild geese. Wherever a ﬂock of geese are feeding,
one is not eating but on the alert, so that, at the ﬁrst
sign of danger, he can give warning. A few times, as
the summer passed, he would take the ﬂedglings aloft,
but not for long. ‘At the goose’s insistent scolding he
would set his wings and the seven of them would break
formation and glide down the incline of space to her.
There would be loud gabbling following each training
ﬂight, and, as if to placate her, he would lead the ﬂock
to the stream where she could join in maneuvers.

When fall approached, she, too, felt the migratory
urge. She kept close to her life mate. He rubbed
his long neck against her breast and voiced endear-
ments. As fall advanced she became restive and more
talkative. She remembered the feel of cool air against
the rbeat of her wing, the changing landscape lit by
sun and moon, the taste of wild rice, the stirring
“honk” that called to formation. She also remembered
that these were not for her; that in the ﬁrst chill days
her family would desert her. And this they did.
Standing far below she sent her clarion call into the
cloud-dulled sky as she watched their forms, mere
specks against the gathering daylight. Her concern

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
    

during the ﬁrst few days after they had gone was
pitiful. It was then she and I became friends.

Yet each year, for several years, she deserted me
upon his arrival, lavished all her low gobblings on him,
preened for him and ﬂirted shamelessly. Then came
one spring when she oiled her feathers, dusted and
shone like a bride, yet the ﬂock was late in arriving.
She wandered about for quite a distance. Her coat

-lost its sheen. I would hear her lonesome call from

afar, yet she always came in at night. But one night
she did not return. Search revealed a bunch of gray
feathers. I felt sure a coyote had caught her. “At
least,” I reasoned, “I will not have to watch her
suffering when the geese take off.”

Ice was forming closer to the stream’s edge each
morning. Spring was in the air, grass was greening.
I heard a honking, and there against the sky were
geese in V formation. One black speck detached
itself, spiraled down and circled about. A love call
rang clear, commanding. It was the gander. He
alighted and walked over the ground that he and h1s
mate had traveled on their way to their nest building.
Back and forth he went for days. Then he left.

The next year, and thenext, he came and searched
the ﬁelds, the creek, even- the chicken run. Hunters
were more numerous, yet he seemed to lose his cautlon:
separated himself from the band. Then, late on a fall
day, as the sun .was setting, he ﬂew into a hunter’s

shot, thus to join his mate.

Reprinted by permission of Nature Magazine

  

 




 

 

 

 

f 9
SNCIRCLee LIE (3L06

Editor — WILLIAM A. SWALLOW
Assistant Editor — WILLIAM M. MORRILL

i1?

SUBSCRIPTION RATES

One dollar per year. Postage tree to any part of
the world.

All dollar subscriptions sent direct to the office
entitle the sender to membership in either of our
two Societies.

MANUSCRIPTS relating to animals. particularly
prose articles of about 300 words, are solicited.
We do not wish to consider prose manuscripts
longer than 500 words nor verse in excess of twenty-
four lines. The shorter the better. All manuscripts
should be typewritten and an addressed envelope
with full return postage enclosed with each offering.

Published monthly by The Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals. Publica-
tion office, 46 Central Street. Norwood. Massachu-
setts. Entered as second-class matter, June 29,
I9I7. at the Post Office at Norwood. Mass. under
the Act of March 3. I879. Acceptance for mailing
at special rate of postage provided for in section
lIO3. Act of October 3. I9I7, authorized. July
l3, l9l9.

Address all communications to Editorial Office.
|80 Longwood Avenue, Boston l5. Mass.

 

COMPANIONS OF THE FAR NORTH

A United States Coast Guardsman, stationed at an

Arctic outpost. finds cheer in this "fluffy bit of

Husky." In the lonely reaches of the Far North

the sledge dogs give companionship to America's

guardians. Photo through the courtesy of the U. 5.
Coast Guard.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Founded by Geo. T. Angell, |868
VOLUME 77—No. 3

U. 5. Trade Mark Registered
MARCHI I944.

PUBLISHED BY

THE MASSACHUSETTS SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS
‘ AND
THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY

Officers
DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

0

ERIC H. HANSEN. Executive Vice-President

ALBERT A. POLLARD. Treasurer
WILLIAM A. SWALLOWl Secretary
PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY. Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds

JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First Boston Corporation

CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President and Chairman Finance Committee,
United Shoe Machinery Corporation

CHARLES E. SPENCER, JR., President, First National Bank of Boston

Massachusetts S. P. C. A.
JOSEPH MOONEY, Treasurer’s Assistant

Prosecuting Officers in Boston
Telephone (Complaints, Ambulances) Longwood 6100

L. WILLARD WALKER, Chief Officer

HARRY L. ALLEN HOWARD WILLAND
HARVEY R. FULLER J. ROBERT SMITH

County Prosecuting Officers
HERMAN N. DEAN, Boston Middlesex and Norfolk
FRED T. VICKERS, Wenham Eastern Essex
WILLIAM W. HASWELL, Methuen
JOSEPH E. HASWELL, Methuen

FRED F. HALL, Springfield _
Hampden, Hampshire and Franklin

HARRY C. SMITH, Worcester Worcester
CHARLES E. BROWN, Attleboro, Bristol and Plymouth

HAROLD G. ANDREWS, Hyannis
Barnstable, Dukes and Nantucket

T. KING HASWELL, Pittsfield Berkshire

Western Essex
Western Essex

Rest Farm for Horses and Small Animal Shelter,
Methuen

W. W. HASWELL, Superintendent

Other Small Animal Shelters of M. S. P. C. A.

Boston, 180 Longwood Avenue
Springfield, 53-57 Bliss Street
Pittsfield, 224 Cheshire Road
Attleboro, 3 Commonwealth Avenue
Hyannis, State Road, Rte. 28, Centerville
Wenham, Cherry Street

Branches and Auxiliaries

Northampton Branch of Mass. 5. P. C. A.—PROF.
P. R. LIEDER, Pres.; MISS ELIZABETH A. FOSTER,
reas.

Holyoke Branch of Mass. 5. P. C. A.—AARON M.
BAGG, Pres.; BROOKS WHITE, Treas.

Springfield Branch Auxiliary — MRS. ROBERT R.
MILLER, Pres.; MRS. H. W. TOCKBOWER, Treas.

Winchester Branch Auxiliary — MISS GLADYS
FOLTS, Vice-Pres.; MRS. DANIEL C. DENNETT, Treas.

Boston Work Committee of Mass. S. P. C. A. —
MRS. GEORGE D. COLPAS, Chairman.

American Humane Education Society

Field Workers of the Society
Mrs. Alice L. Park, Palo Alto, California
Mrs. James D. Burton, Harriman, Tennessee
Mrs. Florida L. Byrne, Tacoma, Washington
Mrs. Katherine Weathersbee, Atlanta, Georgia
Rev. Dr. F. Rivers Barnwell, Fort Worth, Texas
Rev. John W. Lemon, Ark, Virginia
Miss Lucia F. Gilbert, Boston, Massachusetts
Rev. R. E. Griffith, De Land, Florida

Field Representative
Dr. Wm. F. H. Wentzel, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

Foreign Corresponding Representatives

E. J. H. Escobar ....................... Colombia
Luis Pareja Cornejo ..................... Ecuador
Leonard T. Hawksley ................... Italy

5. C. Batra ............................ India
Mrs. Marie C. E. Houghton ............... Madeira
Dr. A. T. Ishkanian ..................... Mexico
Mrs. Alice W. Manning ................. Turkey

71?

Angell Memorial Animal Hospital
and Dispensary for Animals

I80 Longwood Avenue—Telephone Longwood 6100

Veterinarians

E. F. SCHROEDER, D.V.M., Chief of Staff
*G. B. SCHNELLE, V.M.D., Asst. Chief
R. H. SCHNEIDER, V.M.D.

T. O. MUNSON, V.M.D.

C. L. BLAKELY, V.M.D.

*M. S. ARLEIN, D.V.M.
*L. H. SCAMMAN, D.V.M.
*W. A. WILCOX, D.V.M.
N. L. GREINER, D.V.M.
H. B. SIEGLE, D.V.M.
FRED KEEFE, V.S., B.V.S.
HARRY L. ALLEN, Superintendent

Springfield Branch
Telephone 4-7355
53-57 Bliss Street, Springfield, Mass.
Veterinarians

A. R. EVANS, V.M.D. H. L. SMEAD, D.V.M..
*R. L. LEIGHTON, V.M.D.
H. J. KOPP, V.M.D.
*On leave of absence— military service

 




 

 

Page 46

Popular Fowl

F ALL the domestic fowls of the

world, few are more popular than
the goose. The saying, “Silly as a goose,”
has no foundation whatsoever, and the
origin of the expression is unknown.
Actually, the goose is a very intelligent
and clever bird. Have you ever seen wild
geese ﬂying in perfect V formation, wing-
ing away the miles in tireless ﬂight?

Through “Mother Goose,” this favorite
bird belongs to the nursery; the fable
of the “goose that laid the golden egg”
takes it into the school room, where later
it ﬁgures as the heroic bird that saved
the city of Rome, and as furnishing Tiny
Tim’s Christmas dinner in Dickens’ fa-
mous “Christmas Carol.”

There are many different species of
geese, ranging from the Chinese “swan-
goose”—which is the largest type in ex—
istence today—to the midget types such
as the common “brant,” found through-
out the Northern Hemisphere. One of
the most beautiful members of the goose
family is the strikingly handsome north-
ern “snow-goose,” while the oddest goose
in the world is perhaps the short-billed
goose of Australia, which can run al-
most as fast as a turkey. Another
strange species is the African spur-
winged goose with its sharp, bone—like
wing projections.

Domestic geese date from a very re-
mote period, as they are shown on the
monuments of ancient Egypt. Wing
feathers of the goose feathered man’s
arrows in the Middle Ages, and supplied
him with quill pens until steel pens took
their place.

Geese live to be forty years old, and
some species live to be even older—a long
life-span indeed as compared with that
of turkeys, ducks, chickens, and other
barnyard and wild fowl that belong in
the poultry category.

—Mabel Irene Savage

4%

Technique Secret
By CARROLL VAN COURT

He never has an ax to grind,
He doesn't ask for votes;
He never talks about the war,
Or taxes, wheat, or oats.
He never peddles flattery,
For he's no politician;
But when it comes to making friends,
He's really a magician!

He gives me love without restraint,
And he’s no hypocrite;

Ah, would that men were so sincere,
And used a little wit

In making friends and keeping them,
As does my puppy, “Flash,"

Who never asks for preferment,
Or favors, or for cash!

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

ANIMA LORE

BUTTERFLIES—Some specimens have a
deﬁnite fragrance resembling that of
sweet peas, jasmine, syringa, mignon-
ette, orange blossoms or balsam.

DOGS—It is estimated that there are
some 12,000,000 dogs in the United
States. The American Kennel Club
recognizes 108 separate and distinct

breeds.

SHARK is a very valuable ﬁsh. From
its skin are made several grades of ﬁne
leather; from its liver is obtained oil
similar to cod-liver oil; from its head
and smaller ﬁns, glue is made. The
Chinese use the larger ﬁns, when dried,
as a relish. The ﬂesh of the shark is
often used as food and the bones, as
fertilizer.

MAGPIE builds its nest in a thorn tree,
if one is available, rooﬁng the home with
strong twigs. The entrance is usually
on the side and the nest cavity is built
of mud and lined with ﬁne grasses and
roots.

POCKET GOPHERS are known to run
as well backwards as forwards.

BITTERNS have unusual eyes in that
they can operate each eye independently.

CATS served not only as mascots to the
Egyptian ﬁghting men, but were also
considered to be sacred animals. Paint-
ings found in the tomb of Egyptian
warriors who battled with Rameses II,
monarch of the upper and lower Nile,
show cats riding in war chariots.

BEES, while gathering ingredients for
one pound of honey, ﬂy a total distance
equal to several trips around the earth.

TOADS—It has been found that about
88 per cent of a toad’s food consists of
insect pests, and, in a period of three
months, about 10,000 injurious insects
will be destroyed by each toad.

COWBIRDS, grackles and the European
cuckoo lay their eggs in the nests of
other birds and considerable skill is re-
quired to maneuver this in the absence
of the home owner.

«a

Any unusual or interesting facts 007l-
cerning animals will be gratefully re-
ceived. Please mention source. Address
—Animalore, Our Dumb Animals, 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston 15, Mass.

March 191,4

Your Cat in the Yard

HAVE a big yard for my cat to play
in,” said Mrs. Blank; “he never runs
around and I feel quite safe about him.”
But within the next three or four days
the cat was quite ill. In the adjoining
yard, without a fence, is an “aquarium,”
a pool that is seldom cleaned. The cat
drank from it and was made dangerously
sick. Have a saucer of clean fresh water
where your cat can easily reach it at any
time. Failure to do this—under the im-
pression that cats do not care for water
—naturally causes them to drink else—
where, often with injurious results.

You’re not always right in believing
that “green stuff is good for the cat and
he knows what is best.” Flowers, plants
and green cut boughs may be toxic, cov-
ered with a poisonous spray. Further,
chewing on the branches may be the cause
of small splinters in the cat’s mouth and
throat.

Around shrubbery and on the lawn
your cat will catch insects of various
kinds; it’s his instinct to stalk, and he
loves to run and jump. The danger lies
in his eating what he catches, and this
must be prevented—ﬁrst, by feeding reg-
ularly and amply of the proper foods;
secondly, by scolding him if he starts
to eat the bug.

Some cats will immediately gulp down
the bug if you attempt to take it from
them. Don’t try that unless you can get
there in good time. Attract the cat’s
attention to something else, then get the
bug away from him, and scold him. We
have succeeded in training our cat not
to catch butterﬂies, but it was a task.

Unless there are trees in your yard, al-
ways leave a door open, at least the porch
door, so that your cat can escape to the
house when a dog comes charging into
the yard. Only recently, a friend of
mine lost a beloved cat because of failure
to think of this safety measure.

Don’t allow the cat to stay out after
dark, nor when the house is left alone.

—L. E. Eubanks

a

Songs I Love Best

By CLARA RADER

Not from a gilded cage,

But from a green leafed tree,
I love to hear a songster

Peal forth his melody.

No song a caged bird sings,
However sweet his note,

Thrills my heart as does a song
From an outdoor songster’s throat.

It gives me greater joy because
The one who sings is free

To fly about in God's green world,
Where all His birds should be.

 




 

 

October 194.4

Crows in Mythology

N the popular mythologies of many

countries, the crow is much maligned
as an evil bird. Not a single ancient
myth speaks in his favor, but actually
the black fellow, although he’s quite
mischievous, does not entirely deserve his
bad reputation.

According to Roman mythology, it
owes its black plumage to Aesculapius,
for his mother, the nymph Coronis, had
a quarrel with his father, Apollo, who
lost his temper and slew the nymph.
Regretting his act, he began to mourn,
and because the crow’s raucous laughter
annoyed him, he changed the bird’s color
from snow-white to sooty black.

In Norway, there is a Hill of Bad
Spirits where ghosts are said to ﬂy
about in the likeness of crows, and in
Sweden, a similar spot is known as the
Place of Crows and Devils. Tibet has
an Evil City of Crows, and Pliny called
the crow a bird of ill—omened garrulity.

Shakespeare’s Cassius says:

“Ravens, crows, and kites

Fly o’er our heads and downward look
on us

As we were sickly prey; these shadows
seem ,

A canopy most fatal, under which

Our army lies, ready to give up the
ghost.”

The ca'wing of a crow has always been
held to bode evil, and the children of
many countries have long been taught
to shun t‘hese wicked birds of ebony hue.

Modern proverbs do not brand the
crow as a perpetual messenger of evil,
but much depends on the number of
crows that you see. According to one
proverb, which is amusing but absurd
“one crow is lucky, two is unlucky, three
is health, four is wealth, and ﬁve is
sickness.”

-—-Wilbert N. Savage

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Strange Bell Ringers

EHIND the twelve-hundred—year—old

cathedral at Wells, England, known
as the City of Waters, stands the palace
of the bishop. It is surrounded by a
willow-shaded moat and here are to be
seen the famous white swans, descend-
ants of those brought from Rome cen-
turies ago. They are so tame that they
will come when called.

In the “Requirements for the Bishop’s
Palace,” the feeding of the swans is im—
perative, and has brought a curious sys-
tem into usage. A low casement window
in the shadiest part of the palace wall
is always open when there is no ice on
the moat. From it hangs a cord buoyed
with a cork so that it will float on the
water Ibeneath.

When hungry, the swans sail grace-
fully to the cord, seize it in their bills
and tug. The tugging rings a bell in
the palace and instantly, a uniformed
attendant appears to feed the bishop’s
beautiful charges. In cold weather the
swans are warmly housed.

’ —L. E. E'abanks

@
How Did He Know?

FEW years ago, an elderly woman,

who was living with her relatives,
began to lose her sight. The family had
a car, and as she delighted in riding,
she was taken for a ride often. The
dog, a great pet, remained at home, but
as soon as the family returned, he would
come trotting to meet them. He would
sidle up to the elderly woman, take one of
her hands gently in his mouth and lead
her along the walk, up the steps, and into
the house. No one’taught him to do this,
and he did it to no one else. How did
he know she was losing her sight?

—A’rmie Bryant
a

No Web for This Spider

HERE would a spider be without

a web? Just ask the crab spider,

for he gets along without one. This lazy

fellow escapes the effort of spinning, an
art he has never learned.

The crab spider is so called because he
walks like a crab—always sideways or
backwards, for he travels best in these
directions.

With no web to trap victims for his
larder, the hungry crab spider pounces
upon unlucky prey from behind leaves
and twigs. He is hard to see, because
he has the gift common to lizards and
toads—that of \blending perfectly into
any background.

Another member of the clan wears a
gayly-tinted coat, and so he does his
hunting from ﬂowers, whose vivid color-
ing renders him almost invisible.

-—Ida M. Pardae

Page 19]

Something about Elephants
By J. FRANK BROWNING

0 YOU know that no one has ever
seen a wild African elephant lie
down to rest or sleep? Ths singular odd-
ity puzzles wild—life experts, for the
Asiatic species displays no such char-
acteristic, and lies down often to slumber
and rest.

Do you know that an elephant’s hide
may be more than one and one-half inches
thick on some parts of his ponder-ous
body? That is why they are called
pachyderms, which means “thick-
skinned.” Only the rhinoceros, the hip-
popotamus, and the tapir have hides as
thick as the elephant.

Do you know that, of all the animals
mentioned in the Bible—ranging from
the camel to the cat, from the bear to the
badger, from the antelope to the hare——
the word “elephant” appears in the Bible
not a single time?

Do you know that a famous Dutch
animal dealer once trained siX full—grown
elephants to work and carry their mas-
ters in just two days? This record still
stands today; no one has ever equaled it.

Do you know that at birth a baby
elephant may be three feet high and
weigh two hundred or more pounds? The
mother elephant is very affectionate to—
ward her young, and carefully protects
it until it is four or ﬁve years old.

Do you know that African elephants
reach a height of twelve feet, and a
weight of 9,000 pounds? The Indian or
Asiatic elephant is smaller, and is easier
to tame and train.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

r‘xv __._

.-. a. 2

 

From the

PRESIDENT’S DESK

 

 

HAT constitutes greatness? Is it to

have power and use it for personal
ends? Is it to have it and use it with all
gentleness, considering others as truly
as oneself? That old Hebrew writer of
Psalms was facing one of the profoundest
principles of character when he said,
“Thy gentleness hath made me great.”

@

WE do not doubt the patriotism and
the sincerity of many who are ad—
vocating compulsory military training in
the United States. We believe, however,
that once this present war excitement is
over, the movement, having lost its
stimulating cause, will'have less claim
upon public attention.

@

THIS magazine has never stood for
peace at any price. It holds it an
unpardonable crime for any nation to
take up arms until the last attempt at
settlement through arbitration has failed,
or until in self—defense it must resist an
attacking or invading foe.

cﬁ

ILL any thoughtful man question

the saying of Plato that the pos-
session of all science, if unaccompanied
by knowledge of what is best, will more
often than not injure the possessor?

ti

ERE is a clever saying of the late

Samuel Butler, quoted by Nevin-
son: “There are people equally horriﬁed
at hearing Christianity doubted, and at
seeing it practiced.”

a

ALLING a slaughter-house an abat-

toir lessens in no degree the needless
suffering of its hopeless victims.

Fondouk Needs Help

T seems almost incredible that the
American Fondouk, in Fez, Morocco,
has been able to carry on its work through
the years of war which have surrounded
it. At the very outset of the war, Super-
intendent Delon was mobilized with the
French Army, but was aIIOWed to devote
much of his time to animalprotection.
Then came the fall of France; German
armies crossed over to North Africa.
Many weeks passed before any word was
received. Then came a letter from
Superintendent Delon with the good news
that there had been no interruption in
the Fondouk’s service.

Since that time, each month has
brought encouraging reports of the work
for animals. But between the lines may
easily be read the struggle against the
scarcity of forage and the increased costs
of operation. The devotion of the Fon—
douk’s staff, alone, has been its salva-
tion. Through these workers there has
been continuous supervision of native-
owned animals with the result that there
continues to be a real interest in animal
welfare.

At the present time, funds are urgently
needed that the work may be carried on.
We bespeak the Fondouk’s support by
our friends, conﬁdent in the feeling that
they will respond to so noble a cause.

Contributions may be sent to The
American Fondouk Maintenance Com-
mittee, Inc., M. E. Lyon, Treasurer, 50
Madison Avenue, New York 10, N. Y.,
or to The Massachusetts Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston 15, Mass.

a

NTERNATIONAL peace begins, if
anywhere, in that reverence for life,
for individuality, which has its root in
kindness to animals.
—-Bost0n H erald

Wasting the Society’s Money

ERE is an illustration of how many

thoughtless or misinformed or
spiteful neighbors force the Society to
wear out the cars of its agents and need—
lessly use up its gasoline coupons.

A report of one of our State ofﬁcers,
which has just come in, shows nineteen
demands made upon him to investigate
cases of cruelty. Eleven of these indi-
cated that the animals complained against
were found in excellent condition—no
ground for complaint at all. Of the other
eight, three had to do with horses with
sore backs, but the horses were already
being laid up until the backs should heal.
Another cause of needless waste are the
requests to call for sick or injured ani-
mals when really the animals are in
perfect health but the owners want to
get rid of them.

We suppose it cannot be helped. Com-
plaints must be answered, however fool-
ish and unwarranted.

:13

Growth of Vegetarianism

EGETARIANISM is at least as old
V. as the Book of Daniel and, accord—
ing to ancient record, Adam and Eve
never went into the meat business. The
increase, however, in restaurants in this
country and especially in England, where
the choice of a purely vegetable diet is
possible, is signiﬁcant. An exchange tells
the amusing story of a housemaid who,
being asked if she objected to living with
vegetarians, declared herself quite Wlll-
ing to do so. Afterwards the family
learned she hastened to make inquiries
outside as to what “kind of religion” it

W38.
@

NOTHING more rapidly reﬁnes, up-
lifts, exalts both mind and heart
than generous, gracious, unselﬁsh mm-
istrations to others.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

HOT WEATHER ADVICE

L animal owners should recognize the need for

special care for their animals during hot weather.

Veterinarians of our Angell Memorial Animal Hos—

pital stress the fact that the midsummer heat affects many animals
in the same manner as it does human beings. '

Horses, in particular, should receive special attention. More
and more of these animals are coming back into general use in
proportion to the scarcity of gasoline and tires. In this respect,
horses should never be forced to carry too heavy loads; generous
amounts of cool water should be supplied and frequent rest periods
made a part of the daily routine.

Thoughtless cruelty is also inflicted on many dogs which are
left by their owners in parked cars. These animals, virtually
imprisonedmoften in the broiling sun, may suffer intensely in a
temperature which may exceed 100 degrees. An owner should
take his pet with him or, if that is impossible, park his car in
the shade and open the windows at least two inches on opposite
sides to insure proper ventilation. '

Dogs, at times, are not too cautious about their own health——
always ready to romp and play to the point of exhaustion. A
considerate owner will not force his pet to exercise too vigorously.

Plenty of fresh, cool water should always be available for your
dog or cat. Renew it frequently and keep the dish in a shaded
spot. If your dog is tied outdoors, be sure he can reach the shade.

Hot Weather Don’ts

DON’T allow pets to remain in the hot sun.
DON’T leave pets in stifling hot cars.
DON’T overlOad work horses.
DON’T fail to provide ample cool water.
DON’T allow dogs near freshly—sprayed plants.
DON’T allow animals near poison ivy.
DON’T permit dogs to chase balls on beach.
DON’T let dogs chase automobiles.
DON’T abandon your pets when you leave

your summer home.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

February 1944

OUR DUMB ANIMALS >

”G. 1.” Dog in Army

By NATHANIEL W. McKELVEY

LTHOUGH female, Corporal Bum
O’Leary isn’t a WAC. She isn’t
even human, which is a pretty

hard thing to say about a lady. She is a
toy collie, an ofﬁcially enlisted member
of the United States Army, who has met
the President, participated in the Allied
North African landings, and ridden a
tank.

Wherever her owner, Sgt. Michael
O’Leary, of Pearce Ferry, Arizona, goes,
Bum goes, too —— or else the Sergeant
doesn’t go. In Tucson, hotels recently re-
fused the Sergeant a room unless he
would leave Bum elsewhere. So man and
dog curled up on a bench at the Southern
Paciﬁc depot, and slept the night out un-
molested.

Once, Bum nearly died of grief. When
Pearl Harbor was struck, Sergeant
O’Leary, who had been honorably dis-
charged from the Marines in 1933, after
19 years of service, joined the Army, leav-
ing Bum at home. While O’Leary was at
Fort Bliss, Texas, Bum was slowly expir-
ing at Pearce Ferry. Friends of the
Sergeant ﬁnally “air-mailed” her to him,
and everything was all right—until the
Sergeant was ordered to another post.

Army regulations forbade excess bag-
gage such as dogs, but Sergeant O’Leary
was resourceful. He wired a plea to
President Roosevelt. Touched, the Presi-
dent ordered Bum into the Army, provid-
ing for her a regular G. I. ration of forty
cents per day.

At Casablanca, Bum and Sergeant
O’Leary had a chance to thank President
Roosevelt, which they did profusely, Bum
sitting on her haunches in the character-
istic begging manner that named her.

Picking up the dog, the Chief Execu—
tive remarked: “That’s a mighty ﬁne
dog. I am only too glad I could do her a
favor.” Actually, the Army got a mighty
ﬁne recruit.

It was during the American retreat at
Medjez-El-Bab that Bum was evacuate-d
in a tank. Although she has three times
been under ﬁre, without ﬂinching, the
tank ride made her nervous. “She posi-
tively doesn’t like tanks,” the Sergeant
says. '

Trained as a war dog, at Camp Roberts,
Bum now acts as battle messenger and
Good Samaritan, carrying a ﬁrst aid kit
around her neck. In North Africa, she
helped the Sergeant capture six Italian
soldiers, and in the landings at Oran she
stayed with her master when he fell
with a twisted ankle.

Bum and her boss served throughout
the North African campaign, fought
through the battle for Sicily, and re-
turned to the United States and Arizona
only when ordered back as escort for a
group of war prisoners.

Corporal Bum and her master have
plans for the future. Expressed with
determination by both, they are: “When
the American Army enters Berlin, we
want to be with it!”

&

 

Norwegian Ofﬁcial Photo

Crew of Norwegian minesweeper play with ship's mascot.

Page 2’7

 

Photo by

( (Pop’!

Kahme

"Burn" and Sergeant O'Leary

Hard to Take

CERTAIN rich alumnus of Yale of-

fered the university a very substan-
tial gift of money on condition that the
alumni should permit him to address
them at their next annual gathering. This
was easily arranged. He began his ad-
dress by pronouncing the magic “Yale”
with solemn emphasis. He spelled it
out “Y—A-L-E.” He then proceeded to
develop the content of the four magic
letters. “Y” stood for “youth.” Followed
30 minutes of reﬂections on youth and
Yale. “A” obviously stood for “athletics,”
properly to develop which absorbed an-
other 30 minutes. In turn “literature”
and “education” were faithfully treated.
This, with 15 minutes of peroration, ab-
sorbed two hours and a quarter.

The meeting’s chairman said, “While
listening to the splendid and scholarly
address of our distinguished brother I
could not help reﬂecting upon our good
fortune in being here in the hallowed
precincts of Yale instead of in those of
the Massachusetts Institute of Tech-
nology.”

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 186

Bird Characters
By WINIFRED HEATH

GOOD many people think birds are

all alike as to character. They are
willing to concede that the eagle is a
noble creature and the pert wren with its
tip-tilted tail is cute, but that is about as
far as they are willing to go. Anyone
doubting the variety of avian character
should have lived in San Diego near a
green garden as I did, with a roof right
outside my window which was a favorite
rendezvous for all the birds in the neigh—
borhood. On a ﬂimsy pine branch near
one window a mourning dove and his
gentle wife had a ramshackle home and
two babies.

What good parents they were, a char-
acteristic true of most birds, and how
good he was to his little mate in spite
of her poor housekeeping. There is hardly
anything gentler in all nature than this
quiet softly plumaged bird in gray and
blue.

What a contrast to the mourning dove
the cocky little hummer who goes it
alone and can ﬁght and beat a bird sev-
eral times its own size! The only time I
ever saw two of them together they were
chasing each other madly over a hibiscus
bush.

The mockingbird is all over San Diego,
singing night and day. A born artist, he
craves an audience so perches on the tip
of the tallest tree or a telephone pole, or
a chimney, anywhere just so he can be
seen and heard.

The blackbird is also a triﬂe aggressive
and at nesting time he has no use for
dogs. I have often seen a perfectly well-
intentioned dog go howling down the
street with a [belligerent ‘blackbird
perched on its bristling back.

The bush tit is a tiny, adorable gray
ball of ﬂuff and feathers who runs around
with a host of friends and relatives. In
and out of the bushes they swarm, keep—
ing up a constant tiny twittering.

Each of these birds has its own idea
as to how a nest should [be built. The dove
slings a few sticks together; but the lady
hummer builds what is perhaps the
smallest and neatest nest in the world;
while the bush tit fashions a lovely,
softly lined pouch and hides it among the
leaves and twigs.

Saint Francis of Assisi loved the
“little fowle of God” and is said to have
actually preached to them. Some people
might think a bird would not understand
human speech—but all creatures, even
the least, can be reached by love. We may
be sure that they listened politely to that
tender, musical voice, and ceased their
busy twittering—for birds are often bet-
ter mannered than unfeathered human

folk.
4%

Please remember the American Humane
Education Society when making your Will.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

ANIMAL AND

A Los Angeles exterminating firm has
hired an anteater. He is paid the usual
rate and will have to pay—poor fellow
—the usual income tax, with nothing off
for dependents.

Our old friend, "Tommy Tucker,”
the squirrel Beau Brummel, is now mak-
ing the rounds of hospitals entertain-
ing convalescents. Though he is un-
trained, he has a bag full of tricks.

"Mary Ann,” aﬁthree-year-old mare,
made the headlines in California, when
her master listed her as a dependent on
his draft questionnaire.

As recently reported here, "Lassie,”
the movie dog star, is a "he.” Nothing
daunted,. a. Hollywood. press .agent
proudly announces that "when her ex-
pected pups arrive, one of them will
play a sequel to ”Lassie Come-Home?”
Ah, that California sunshine.

In somewhat more serious vein, we
learn that Daisy, an equally famous ca-
nine actress, is donating blood to the
Red Cross for beneﬁt of wounded mem-
bers of the K-9 Corps.

A soldier in the tropics has suggested
that we put specially trained monkeys
in ]ap uniforms to cause confusion
among the sons of the Rising Sun. But,
wouldn’t this be a bit puzzling to us,

if one of our decoys decided to pay a
visit?

A California Air Depot has utilized
the services of a black widow spider for

spinning silk for the instruments being
repaired.

In ancient Greece, banquet halls were
scented by saturating the wings of
birds with rare perfumes and releasing
the feathered creatures during the re-
past.

Not to be outdone, the Romans, who
were extremely fond of honey, carried
their own beehives to war with them.
While on bees, it may be cogent to note
that experts estimate that the average
honey bee produces only about a quar-
ter of a teaspoonful of honey in a life-
time.

— I ack Pearson

July 1944

Insect Fishermen

TEHERE is one variety of the little cad-

dice worms in the streams who may
be called the ﬁshermen of the insect
world. They build tiny nets and set them
across the current just like real ﬁsher-
men and although the nets are not big
enough to hold even a minnow, being not
more than a half-inch across, still they
bring in enough other tiny water crea-
tures to keep the owner well fed. They
look a ‘bit like tiny spider webs and are
beautifully constructed of a ﬁne silk
net-ting. They are placed on stones on the
stream bottom with the funnel-like open-
ing facing upstream so as to catch any
food carried along by the current. Or if

.the creature ﬁnds two small stones about

the right distance apart, the net is often
stretched between them. Sometimes one
will ﬁnd quite a number of these nets all
set up on a single stone forming a regular
ﬁshing village on the stream bottom.
Usually, too, the nets are set up where
the current is fairly swift as the caddice
is not afraid of fast water and there is
more chance of something being carried
into the net where there is a bit of a
current.

At ﬁrst glance the owner of the little net
doesn’t seem to be anywhere in sight but
one may be sure he is not far away. All
the cad-dice worms build houses for them-
selves using bits of sticks and grass, sand
grains or other materials bound together
with silk. The ﬁsherman uses tiny peb-
bles for his house which makes it rather
hard to see since the outside of it just
matches the other pebbles and stones
around it. On the inside, however, it is
well lined with silk so that the occupant
is quite cozy and comfortable. Then he
has a silken life line from his front door
to the net to which he clings when he
goes up to see Whether he has caught any-,
thing for dinner.

—John H. Spic-er

@

 

 

OVER THE AIR

A weekly radio program devoted to ani-
mals may be heard each Tuesday afternoon
at |:|5 over Springﬁeld radio station WSPR
—|270 on your radio dial. This program
is presented by Charlena B. Kibbe and
sponsored by the Massachusetts Society for
the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Programs will be as follows:

July 4—"Animals in the News."

~ July ll—"Emergency Care and Treatment
of Animals."

July l8—"True Dog Stories."

July 25—"Animals in General."

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

II

M arch 1944

The American Humane Education Society

series of more or less dry facts, serv-
ing, usually, to set forth in the short-
est possible manner, a report of work
accomplished over a speciﬁed period of
time. How much more convincing it
would be if it were possible to outline at
length the various activities of our ﬁeld
workers, including impressions gained
and individual comments of the children
and teachers. As it is, because of space
restrictions, we can only adhere to our
statistics, asking our readers to put their
imaginations to work — to picture the
many schoolrooms, auditoriums, churches
and meetings attended by our workers
for the sole purpose of imparting Hu—
mane Education to the children of our
nation.
With this in mind, we detail below the
activities of our ﬁeld workers over the
past year.

Work in the Far West

As secretary of the Western Humane
Press Bureau, Mrs. Alice L. Park, has
continued over the past year in the mail‘
ing of press slips to some 500 editors,
stressing principally the evils inherent
in the handling of guns by children. In
addition, Mrs. Park distributed a large
quantity of humane literature, attended
teachers’ conventions and the annual
meeting of the State Humane Association
of California.

In Washington, Mrs. Florida L. Byrne,
of Tacoma, has been most zealous in pro-
moting Humane Education. She gave
talks in many of the schools of her city
and reports that she has emphasized her
teaching by the use of quiz games which
both children and teachers have thor-
oughly enjoyed.

STATISTICS, at best, are merely a

Work in the East

William F. H. Wentzel, Field Repre-
sentative, from Pittsburgh, Pennsyl—
vania, continued, as usual, his lectures
and distribution of literature. In all, he
traveled 1,595 miles, visiting numerous
cities, towns and Villages in his section
of the country. In giving 45 school talks,
Mr. Wentzel formed 140 Bands of Mercy
and reached by this method some 34,000
children. In addition, he secured 850
pledges to the Jack London Club and
distributed 90,700 pieces of literature.
Press publicity was secured concerning
work in special institutions; parent-
teacher meetings; radio addresses; bird
house projects; presentation of awards
during Be Kind to Animals Week.

During the year, Miss Lucia F. Gilbert
carried on her work in New Hampshire
and New York, speaking at school assem-

blies, in the classrooms, and distributing
literature and posters wherever possible.
During this time she organized 487 Bands
of Mercy.

Work in the South

In Florida, our representative, Mr.
R. E. Grifﬁth, traveled 3,021 miles, visit-
ing 39 schools in all. He gave 35 talks,
organized 330 Bands of Mercy, reaching
a total of 14,035 persons. In his travels
he distributed 1,483 pieces of humane
literature. In addition to his work in
Humane Education, Mr. Grifﬁth was ac-
tive in rescuing and caring for a number
of animals in distress.

In Georgia, Mrs. Katherine Weathers-
bee carried on, as usual, her extensive
work in bringing Humane Education to
the children of her state. Visiting 101
communities, she traveled a total of
14,558 miles and gave 272 talks in 116
schools. In this manner, she reached
29,781 children and formed 615 Bands of
Mercy. In addition, she visited six chil-
dren’s camps where she talked to 729
children. In her work with adults, Mrs.
Weathersbee attended and gave talks
before 64 meetings having a total at-
tendance of 3,018 adults. She also visited
four teachers’ summer schools by which
method she reached 1,141 teachers. Not
content with these activities, she attended
three 4-H Club livestock meetings, state,
district and local P.T.A. meetings, State
Federated Women’s Club Convention,
National P. T. A. Board meeting, in Chi-
cago, and attended a child guidance meet-
ing, in Washington. During the year,
she distributed from 10,000 to 15,000
pieces of humane literature and sent out
54 letters in the interest of the work.

In Tennessee, Mrs. J. D. Burton trav—
eled 9,025 miles, visiting 85 schools and
giving 104 addresses. In this way she
reached 9,480 children and 3,175 adults;
secured 2,300 Jack London pledges and
distributed 2,665 pieces of literature. In
addition, Mrs. Burton attended a great
variety of conferences and has taken an
active interest in the establishment of
the Catoosa State Park in the interest of
wildlife conservation. Says Mrs. Burton,
“Due to the constant changing of leader-
ship at this time, we have not stressed
the Band of Mercy organization, but have
worked closely with teachers and other
interested persons in keeping before the
people the growing need of kindness to
all living creatures. Humane Education
leaﬂets have been most helpful in this
program.”

In Virginia, Mr. John W. Lemon re-
ports that he traveled 9,847 miles and
visited 286 communities. In this man-

ner, he was able to establish 305 Bands
of Mercy. He visited 169 schools and
gave 253 talks before 16,616 children and
7,132 adults. He distributed, during the
year, 2,628 pieces of literature.

In Texas, Mr. F. Rivers Barnwell trav-
eled 5,172 miles, visiting many places
in Texas and left his state to visit
Shreveport, Louisiana, and Waveland,
Mississippi. He gave 86 talks in 69
schools and established 113 Bands of
Mercy. Children reached through these
channels numbered 30,088. In addition,
Mr. Barnwell gave 113 other addresses
reaching 20,179 adults. Through his
efforts, 45 copies of Our Dumb Animals
were distributed monthly and he was
successful in obtaining a large amount of
newspaper publicity. One of his special
projects last year was a bird Christmas
tree held at Guinn School.

Bands of Mercy in 1943

Summing up the work of ﬁeld repre-
sentatives and others, there have been
formed over the course of last year a
total of 2,120 new Bands of Mercy, mak-
ing a total to date of 267,382, organized
since the movement started in 1882. In
all, over eight million children have been
gathered into these Bands of Mercy.

Jack London Club

Through the efforts of our ﬁeld work-
ers, over 27,000 new members were added
during 1943, making a total to date of
875,657 members.

Summary

It is interesting to note that 181,145
persons were reached by our ﬁeld repre-
sentatives, who have, over the year, ap-
proximately 1,350 talks and lectures.
Large quantities of free literature, in-
cluding leaﬂets and pamphlets, cards,
blotters, posters, medals, buttons and
badges, were distributed.

Foreign Work

Work in countries outside of America
was, of necessity, cut to a minimum as
the postal authorities refuse to accept
material addressed to many countries
which can only be reached by ships pass-
ing through war zones. We did, how-
ever, send a large quantity of leaﬂets,
pamphlets, books, buttons, etc., to Ber-
muda. Part of this expense was paid
and the res-t donated by our Society.
Some literature was sent to England and
a limited amount to Canada. As to con-
tributions, ﬁfty dollars was sent to
Michael O’Connor, in Ireland.

Be Kind to Animals Week

Kindness Week last year was heralded
as usual by a proclamation issued by

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

    

7‘
sNCIRCLee HE GLO9
Editor — WILLIAM A. SWALLOW
Assistant Editor — WILLIAM M. MORRILL

sir

IMPORTANT!
OUR MAIL ADDRESS

No mail whatsoever should be sent
to us at 46 Central StreefLNor-
wood. Massachusetts. This address is
simply one which we must maintain
in compliance with Post Office reg-
ulations.

Mail so addressed is sometimes
delayed a matter of weeks before we
receive it.

 

CORRECT ADDRESS

We ask your cooperation in this
matter. It will help us to serve you
more promptly if you will use our
correct address.

At the bottom of this column you
will find the address to which all come
munications should be sent.

Please use it now and in all future
correspondence.

 

 

 

 

 

 

SUBSCRIPTION RATES

One dollar per year. Postage free to any part of
the world.

All dollar subscriptions sent direct to the office
entitle the sender to membership in either of our
two Societies.

MANUSCRIPTS relating to animals. particularly
prose articles of about 300 words. are solicited.
We do not wish to consider prose manuscripts
longer than 500 words nor verse in excess of twenty-
four lines. The shorter the better. All manuscripts
should be typewritten and an addressed envelope
with full return postage enclosed with each offering.

Published monthly by The Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals. Publica-
tion office. 46 Central Street. Norwood. Massachu-
setts. Entered as second-class matter. June 29.
l9l7. at the Post Office at Norwood. Mass.. under
the Act of March 3. I879. Acceptance for mailing
of special rate of postage provided for in section
lI03. Act of October 3. I9l7, authorized. July
I3. I9I9.

Address all communications to Editorial Office.
I80 Longwood Avenue. Boston l5, Mass.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Founded by Geo. T. AngellI I868
VOLUME 77—No. 6

U. S. Trade Mark Registered
JUNE. I944

PUBLISHED BY

THE MASSACHUSETTS SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS
AND
THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY

f‘r

Officers

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY. President
ERIC H. HANSEN. Executive Vice-President
ALBERT A. POLLARD. Treasurer
WILLIAM A. SWALLOW. Secretary
PEABODY. BROWN. ROWLEY 8: STOREY. Counsel

'i‘r

Trustees of Permanent Funds

JOHN R. MACOMBER. Chairman of the Boa-rdl First Boston Corporation

CHARLES G. BANCROFT. Vice-President and Chairman Finance Committee.
United Shoe Machinery Corporation

CHARLES E. SPENCER. JR.. President. First National Bank of Boston

ii?
Massachusetts S. P. C. A.

JOSEPH MOONEY, Treasurer’s Assistant
Prosecuting Officers in Boston

Telephone (Complaints, Ambulances) Longwood 6100

HARRY L. ALLEN
HARVEY R. FULLER

HERMAN N. DEAN, Boston
FRED T. VICKERS, Wenham
WILLIAM W. HASWELL, Methuen
JOSEPH E. HASWELL, Methuen

L. WILLARD WALKER, Chief Officer

HOWARD WILLAND
* J. ROBERT SMITH

County Prosecuting Officers

Middlesex and Norfolk
Eastern Essex
Western Essex
Western Essex

FRED F. HALL, Springfield

HARRY C. SMITH, Worcester

Hampden, Hampshire and Franklin
Worcester

CHARLES E. BROWN, Attleboro, Bristol and Plymouth
HAROLD G. ANDREWS, Hyannis

T.

Barnstable, Dukes and Nantucket
KING HASWELL, Pittsfield Berkshire

Rest Farm for Horses and Small Animal Shelter,
Methuen

W. W. HASWELL, Superintendent

Other Small Animal Shelters of M. S. P. C. A.

Boston, 180 Longwood Avenue
Springfield. 53-57 Bliss Street

Pittsfield, 224 Cheshire Road

Attleboro, 3 Commonwealth Avenue
Hyannis, State Road, Rte. 28, Centerville
Wenham, Cherry Street

Branches and Auxiliaries

Northampton Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.—PROF.
I? R. LIEDER, Pres.; MISS ELIZABETH A. FOSTER,
reas.

Holyoke Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.—AARON M.

BAGG, Pres.; BROOKS WHITE, Treas.

MILLER, Pres.; MRS.

Springfield Branch Auxiliary—MRS. ROBERT R.
H. W. STOCKBOWER, Treas.

Winchester Branch Auxiliary—MISS GLADYS FOLTS,

Vice-Pres.; MRS. DANIEL C. DENNETT, Treas.

Boston Work Committee of Mass. S. P. C. A.—

MRS. GEORGE D. COLPAS, Chairman.

American Humane Education Society

Field Workers of the Society
Mrs. Alice L. Park, Palo Alto, California
Mrs. James D. Burton, Harriman, Tennessee
Mrs. Florida L. Byrne, Tacoma, Washington
Mrs. Katherine Weathersbee, Atlanta, Georgia
Rev. Dr. F. Rivers Barnwell, Fort Worth, Texas
Rev. John W. Lemon, Ark, Virginia
Miss Lucia F. Gilbert, Boston, Massachusetts
Rev. R. E. Griffith, De Land, Florida

Field Representative
Dr. Wm. F. H. Wentzel, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

Foreign Corresponding Representatives

E. J. H. Escobar ...................... Colombia
Luis Pareja Cornejo .................... Ecuador
Leonard T. Hawksley ................... Italy

S. C. Batra ........................... India
Mrs. Marie C. E. Houghton .............. Madeira
Dr. A. T. Ishkanian ................... Mexico
Mrs. Alice W. Manning ................. Turkey

72?

Angell Memorial Animal Hospital
and Dispensary for Animals

180 Longwood Avenue—Telephone Longwood 6100

Veterinarians

E. F. SCHROEDER, D.V.M., Chief of Staff
*G. B. SCHNELLE, V.M.D., Asst. Chief
R. H. SCHNEIDER, V.M.D.

T. O. MUNSON, V.M.D.

C. L. BLAKELY, V.M.D.
*M S. ARLEIN, D.V.M.

*L. H. SCAMMAN, D.V.M.

*W. A. WILCOX, D.V.M.

N. L. GREINER, D.V.M.

FRED KEEFE, V.S., B.V.S.

HARRY L. ALLEN, Superintendent

Springfield Branch

Telephone 4-7355
53-57 Bliss Street, Springfield, Mass.

Veterinarians
A. R. EVANS, V.M.D. H. L. SMEAD, D.V.M.
*R. L. LEIGHTON, V.M.D.
H. B. SIEGLE, D.V.M.
H. J. KOPP, V.M.D.

*On leave of absence—military service

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

March 1941;

Bilgewater
and 1

McGinty

HE CREW of SPARship Bran-

II don, the Coast Guard barracks

for SPARS, in Brookline, Massa-
chusetts, has shuddered the past few
months. It trembles now.

“Bilgewater 1”

That’s a hard word to whisper, but it
can be done. You’d do it, too, if you
were billeted at SPARship Brandon.

A ship without a mascot is an un-
natural picture. Yet SPARship Brandon
may have to face just that. Bilgewater
objects to them. And the suspicion grows
that he is responsible for the fate of
those which have already tried to make
that rating. That he, himself, might be
a mascot is an absurd notion. He simply
has charge of the whole place. He always
did, long before upstart SPARS boarded
his comfortable Brookline residential
hotel. He always will.

The mascot tradition dies hard, and
the sinister, if unequal, struggle goes on.
Under Bilgewater’s very nose, SPARship
Brandon has adopted another mascot, a
tiny black kitten named “McGinty.” Now,
in his tender months, McGinty is care—
fully locked away in a room where Bilge-
water may not enter. The fate of former
mascots is a lively, if hush-toned issue.

First there was “Brandy,” a spunky
Scotch terrier. But there is a limit to
spunk, when the Bilgewater glare gets
down to business. Brandy somehow
chewed through his mooring line and
vanished within twenty-four hours. A
search party everywhere drew blank. A
prompt appeal over the radio also failed.
Brandy had gone “over the hill” to stay.

The second mascot attempt was a signal

Somewhere in Italy

HOMAS C. HRUSLINSKI, American Red Cross ﬁeld di-
rector, was sitting in his tent-ofﬁce, when suddenly, a large
It was a mongrel dog,
Tom immediately administered ﬁrst
aid, setting the dog’s leg and doctoring him generally.

During all this, the animal kept licking Tom’s face and
hands, and then suddenly collapsed. Not even a “he-man” could
After a short wait, his
“patient” attempted to get up and wagged his tail.
Italian dog, but this sign language needed no interpreter. Tom
immediately sensed the mongrel was hungry and fed him. Then

shape stumbled into the shadowy tent.
mangled and bleeding.

have kept a dry eye, Tom maintains.

the dog fell asleep under the desk.

Tom’s Christmas cards this year to his friends back in Phila-
delphia, Pa., bore a sketch of himself in a trench. At his feet

is his mascot, the Italian dog.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

ﬁasco, though the upshot was a little
delayed. “Fritzie,” a female dachshund,
came aboard. To make sure that inter-
national feeling might not further com-
plicate the problem, Fritzie wore a mid-
ship bandage marked with the legend:
“This is an American.”

That the current unpleasantness in
Europe and the South Seas is nothing to
Bilgewater, nothing to one who has
watched with sublime indifference the
sweating hordes who built the pyramids
of Egypt, should have been foreseen. Em—
pires and ideologies may rise and fall,
but the prerogatives of aristocratic cat-
dom go on forever.

The transfer of Fritzie to a harbor
picket boat, where she will have nothing
more serious than wind and wave to con-
tend with, has been hastily ascribed to
the fact that she could not be house—
broken. But Bilgewater knows better.
That’s how scared she was.

Bilgewater is quite aware of thislatest

a

He was an

Ofﬁcial U. S. Coast Guard Photo

(Left to right) BILGEWATER AND McGINTY SIZING UP THE SITUATION

attempt to provide SPARship Brandon
with a mascot. He knows McGinty is
aboard. There’s no need to feel hurried.

“As I used to say to Cheops —— just
wait!”

Bilgewater divides his indoor time——
the outdoor night hours are not for this
record—between the center of the quar-
ter deck, where he regally stares down
his nose past his frayed whiskers, and
the galley, where his dish awaits him
under the table. He is biding his time.

Meanwhile, the Coast Guard, though
only 153 years old, must consider its un-
beaten record. SPARS may shudder.
They never quit. Mascot or bust! Hence,
McGinty. And McGinty, also being a cat,
stems from the same primordial past as
does Bilgewater, with the same yen for
prerogatives. He’ll think of that when
he grows up.

As to Bilgewater, he doesn’t talk. He
mutters.

“Just wait.”

Our Ship’s Mascot

Sinking into a catnap, I'm aware

That two bright eyes are watching; till, one leap—
My lids shut, I pretend to be asleep!

He grabs a sock that's drying on a chair;

But “Boots," I yell; dropping the precious loot,

He scampers, and my chuckles half regret

The shirts and handkerchiefs his teeth did fret,

Even the trousers of my only suit,

This Schnauzer—Spitz—and Pug—and Beagle Hound,
The Steward brought on board,- and yet we love

Him while our loud and mild chastisements move

"Boots" howling down the passage. Lord, he's found
A slipper in the ensign’s room, with squeals

Of joy as uppers from the sole he peels!

—-J0HN ACKERSON

 




 

 

 

 

 

September 1944

Canine Invader

THE canine world sent its representa—

tive with the forces liberating Eu-
rope. “Smoky,” an undeterminable breed,
although born in England, has made two
Channel crossings aboard an American
LST.

At the outset of each journey, Smoky
usually becomes a bit seasick, but it isn’t
long before he acquires his “sea legs”
and is ram‘bling from bow to stern and
from below to top side.

In carrying out his primary duty, the
young puppy is mostly concerned with
morale. Besides lending his charm to
crew members, he is usually found in the
arms of one of the casualties returning to
England or romping with survivors of
sea engagements.

Only one spot on the landing ship is
“off limits” for Smoky, the ship’s sur-
gery, since he was found in the doctor’s
medicine chest with a bottle of iodine
clamped in his jaws.

@
Urban Nightingales

HE nightingale may not sing in Ber-

keley Square, but nightingales are

singing in other urban areas where they
have never been heard before.

Many people have reported hearing and
seeing the nightingale in their gardens
or pieces of waste land with only a shrub
or two to provide a “stage.” Some pairs
have even nested in gardens near London,
offering, in return, day and night enter-
tainment for the householders.

From the Home Counties, particularly
Sussex and Surrey, have come reports
that never have so many nightingales
been heard before.

The reason for this apparent urbani-
zation and concentrations of our most
strident songster, experts on bird life
say, is that the war caused a redistribu-
tion of all our birds.

Nightingales are no more abundant,
but they have had to “evacuate” their
favorite haunts through the felling of
trees and the clearing of land for agri-
cultural or other purposes.

So they have moved nearer to the towns
and, like many of us in wartime, have
had to get together and make the most of
available accommodations.

They have come back from Africa this
year to ﬁnd a housing shortage, and they
are remarkably cheerful about it. An odd
thing about nightingales, and other song
birds, too, is that they are unperturbed
by the noises of war.

Hedge-hopping ﬁghter planes may roar
just over their heads, and they will not
even pause in their song, let alone for-
sake the bush they have selected. They
set an example in calmness and adapt-
ability.

——Bm’tish Information Services

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Page 165

 

British Oﬂicial Photo

Wounded soldier is comtorted by a French dog as he lies waiting to be flown back to
a base hospital in England.

Best Medicine in the World

THE hospital tent was full, as the
chaplain entered with “Lulabelle.”

The chaplain, Lieutenant Colonel Wil-
liam E. King, used to preach at the May—
wood Baptist Church, Kansas City. Lula—
belle is a dog, about six inches long, but
not quite that tall—so small, in fact, that
the chaplain often carried her around in
his trench-coat pocket.

The wounded lads, lying on their cots,
looked up as the chaplain and his dog
approached—all eyes centered on Lula—
belle. Stopping to chat here and there,
Colonel King let each of the boys pet the
dog. At last, he reached a cot where a
quiet soldier lay—a soldier who for days
had said not a word except in reply to
questions. Stony-eyed he lay, staring
straight up rather than look down toward
two stumps of arms, where his wrists and
hands used to be.

A nurse whispered to the chaplain,
“He’s lucky to be alive, but he doesn’t
seem to care. He hasn’t shown the slight-
est interest in anything, even in staying
alive.”

Walking over to the bed, the chaplain
stood for a moment looking down at the
lad. Then, all at once, the soldier saw
Lulabelle. He started to speak, gulped

and remained silent.

“What is it, son?” asked Colonel King.

“Say,” stumbled the boy, “would you
just let the puppy lick my face?” In
answer, Colonel King leaned over and put
Lulabelle down on the plaster-encased
chest between the stumps of arms. And
wagging her tail like mad, Lulabelle nuz—
zled her tiny head forward and licked the
soldier’s face. In the stillness, the sound
of the lad’s swallowing seemed loud.
Tears began to trickle down his cheeks.

“I used to have a dog, sir, and he’d
sneak up and lick my face while I was
sleeping. That’s the ﬁrst time a dog has
licked my face since I left home, sir.”

ColOnel King nodded understandingly
and when he started on to the ward tents,
he left Lulabelle there on the cot. When
he returned he found her snuggled up
into the soldier’s armpit, her head lying
on his shoulder.

“Certainly is nice to have a dog around,
sir,” said the boy. “Every patient ought
to have one.” Suddenly his face broke
into a broad grin.

Colonel King grinned back. When he
left the hospital, an hour or so later,
Lulabelle stayed.

—Direct from the Anzio Beachhead

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

December 1941;

Australian
with
Many

Prickles

By JOYCE BURNS GLEN

ECHIDNA OR SPINY ANTEATER
FROM DOWN UNDER.

HIS prickly little fellow is a very
famous Australian called the E-
chidna or spiny anteater.

It shares with the platypus the distinc—
tion of being a warm4blooded creature
which lays eggs, hatches its young, and
then rears them with milk.

The Echidna grows eighteen inches

long and its back and sides are covered
with yellowish pointed quills two inches
long. Unlike the porcupine it is soft and
furry underneath. It has intelligent
black eyes, a long darting tongue like
that of the anteaters, no teeth, a hard-
ened snout, and, last but not least, strong
digging limbs armed with claws, the
front ones acting as spades and garden
forks and the hind ones as combs for its
thick hair. It is the most eﬂicient digger
imaginable and its mighty claws make
short work of an anthill. When frightened
it disappears into the ground like a
ﬂash, or, if the ground is too hard, it

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

rolls itself up into a ball, and as no self—
respecting dog wants to get a prickle in
his nose, it is safe from attack. But the
Echidna has a Vulnerable spot. When
it rolls itself up its big toe always sticks
out, and the Aborigines lift it up by this
big toe and carry poor Mr. Echidna.
The mother lays an egg which she keeps
in her pouch until a funny naked little
body emerges to be fed on milk from a
gland in her pocket. As the baby grows
a coat of quills and begins to tickle her,
the. mother lets it go out to see the world.
Then it is put on a diet of worms and
ants, red, black and brown, which it
catches by thrusting its sticky tongue
into an anthill and wriggling it about
until it is covered with ants. Then it
rubs them into small pieces with its
snout and down the “red lane” they go.
The Echidna in captivity is a fastidious

a

How Animals Sleep . . _ .

N interesting thing to do next time
you go to visit the zoo, or a circus
comes to town, is to make a study

of how the different birds and animals
take their rest. Someone who took notes
along this line tells us that:

Elephants lie stretched out, their huge
legs lying at full length, and the trunk
curved under the body, when asleep.

The rhinoceros lies at full length and
almost always on the left side.

Deer crouch low for their rest, with
the forelegs bent under; the hind ones

drawn up; while the- head is turned
the right.

An alpaca, when asleep, simply looks
like a large ball of black wool; and polar
bears, too, huddle up in a heap, with
their noses buried deep in their white
fur, and forepaws crossed over the eyes.

Llamas, zebras, and, buffaloes rest as
cows rest — with their forelegs drawn
under them and their hind legs drawn in.

Camels lie on their stomachs with their

fore and hind legs "bent under them,

while their heads and necks are stretched

to -

Page 225

eater and likes a dainty dish of chopped
raw :beef with milk and an egg.

In spite of its fearsome spines the
Echidna is really a friendly creature and
makes an attractive pet. It will follow
its master around like a dog and come
when called. But only in the summer,
in winter it is too busy hibernating
to put in an appearance.

It is just as well the Echidna does
not know the classics, or it would get an
inferiority complex! The original E-
chidna of ancient mythology was the fe-
male monster who was half human and
half snake. Echidna had a collection of
relations guaranteed to cause night-
mares, including Medusa, her grand-
mother, who was one of the three Gor-
gons and had snakes for hair, and Echid-
na’s children were a two—headed dog
and a three-headed monster.

.o i b By ETHEL R. ADAMSON

straight out.

- Monkeys squat in their cages, their
heads bowed down over their chests, their
arms resting on the thighs of their hind
legs.

The butterﬂy, like the bat, invariably
goes to sleep head downward, its eyes
looking straight down the stem of the
grass on which it rests. It folds its wings
to the utmost and thus protects its body
from the cold.

See if you can add to this list, and also
check on all the above notes.

 




 

 

 

 

July 191;];
Retired Workers’ Fund

E are receiving gifts to the Ameri-

can Humane Education Society as a
trust fund, the interest to be used for the
beneﬁt of ﬁeld missionaries and others
who have spent their lives in promoting
humane education. Already several cases
have come to our attention and are being
relieved in this way. We will welcome
your contribution to this fund.

Please make checks payable to Albert
A. Pollard, Treasurer, American Humane
Education Society, 180 Longwood Ave-
nue, Boston, and specify that the amount
contributed is for the Humane Educa-
tion Trust Fund.

a

Liberal Annuity Rates
ADVANTAGES

No coupons to clip, no papers to sign and
mail. You simply receive your checks at
stated intervals—that's all there is to it.

Annuity agreements are frequently used
to provide for one’s or another’s future
years.

It is no experiment. There is no anxiety.
No ﬂuctuations in rate of income. N0
waste of your estate by a will contest.

a: a: an as

A pamphlet giving necessary information
gladly sent upon request.

The Massachusetts S. P. C. A., or the
American Humane Education Society, 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston 15.

The management of our invested funds is
a guarantee of the security of these Life

Annuities.

RATES OF MEMBERSHIP IN
THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
OR THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.

Active Life $100 00 Active Annual $10 00
Associate Life 50 00 Associate Annual 5 00
Sustaining Life 20 00 Annual 1 00
Children’s $0 75 '

Checks and other payments may be sent to ALBERT

A. POLLARD, Treasurer, 180 Longwood Avenue,
Boston 15.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

HOSPITAL REPORT FOR MAY
At 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston 15

Cases entered in Hospital ...... 937
Cases entered in Dispensary .. . 1,877
Operations ................. 362

At Springﬁeld Branch, 53 Bliss Street

Cases entered in Hospital ...... 230

Cases entered in Dispensary . . . . 596

Operations .................. 117
Totals

Hospital cases since opening

Mar. 1, 1915 .............. 233,346
Dispensary cases ............. 582,783
Total ............ 816,129

MAY REPORT OF THE OFFICERS
OF THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.,
WITH HEADQUARTERS AT BOSTON,
METHUEN, SPRINGFIELD, PITTSFIELD,

ATTLEBORO, WENHAM, HYANNIS,
WORCESTER, FITCHBURG, NORTH-
AMPTON, HAVERHILL, HOLYOKE,
ATHOL, COVERING THE ENTIRE
STATE. '
Miles traveled by humane ofﬁcers 14,181
Cases investigated ............. 265
Animals examined ............. 4,073
Animals placed in homes ....... 263
Lost animals restored to owners 69
Number of prosecutions ........ 3
Number of convictions ......... 2
Horses taken from work ........ 9
Horses humanely put to sleep . . . 31
Small animals humanely put to
sleep ...................... 2,522
Horse auctions attended ........ 20
Stockyards and Abattoirs
Animals inspected ............ 53,736
Cattle, swine and sheep humanely
put to sleep ................ 56

 

 

tion with any other similar Society.

FORM OF

property. describe the property).

given glladly.

TO OUR FRIENDS

In making your will. kindly bear in mind that the corporate title ot our Society is "The Massachu-
setts Society tor the Prevention ot Cruelty to Animals": that it is the second incorporated (March.
l868) Society tor the Prevention ot Cruelty to Animals in the country. and that it has no connec—

Any bequest especially intended tor the benetit ot the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital. should.
nevertheless. be made to the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals "tor
the use of the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital." as the Hospital is not incorporated but is the
property of that Society and is conducted by it.

I give to The Massachusetts Society for the "Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (or to the
American Humane Education Society). the sum ot ................ dollars (or. it other

The Society's address is I80 Longwood Avenue. Boston l5. Mass. lntormation and advice will be

BEQUEST

 

 

 

 

——__

’i

 

Page 133

Veterinary Column

1. Question: Each summer my dog
becomes heavily infested with ticks. It
is a great deal of trouble to remove them
by hand and also is very annoying to the
dog to have the ticks on his body. What
is the best method of removal?

Answer: Many dogs at this time of
year in certain parts of the United States
become heavily infested with the common
wood tick, Dermacentor Variabilis. It
presents a very serious problem to pet
owners, especially those owning long—
haired dogs, as setters and spaniels. The
common habitat of the tick is in uncut
grassy ﬁelds and beach grass. This is
because the life cycle of the tick depends
entirely upon the meadow mouse in their
immature stage.

As far as treatment or prevention of
these ticks, there is not much of value in
the way of medication. Patience and
persistence in picking them off by hand
still remains the most practical method.
Derris powder sprinkled generously into
the dog’s coat at four or five day inter-

‘ vals works successfully in many cases.

Also dipping the dog in water solutions
of derris powder is sometimes advisable,
but must be repeated frequently to be of
value.

2. Question: My four—months-old
Cooker spaniel scratches incessantly at
his ears, and though I cannot see any-
thing inside the ear, on the outside there
are small gray ﬂicks which at times seem
to move. Could these be causing the
extreme itching?

Answer: The symptoms you describe
sound very much as if your puppy is
infested with lice. They commonly are
found about the ears, and if they are not
treated and placed under control may
spread over the entire body. They appear
as tiny gray or dull white parasites, close
to the skin. The eggs or “nits” are very
closely adhered to the hairs. In both
moderate and severe infestations they
will cause the dog to scratch and rub his
ears, or other portions of the body
aﬁ‘ected.

Treatment includes extreme cleanliness
along with frequent dusting of derris
powder. The derris powder will kill the
adult louse but not the nit, and, con-
sequently, treatment must continue until
all eggs are hatched and more are de-
posited.

3. Question: What is the most satis-
factory method of removing skunk odor
from the dog’s coat?

Answer: To remove skunk odor from
a dog’s hair coat, the dog may be bathed
and then rinsed in vinegar, then/rinsed
again in clear water. Tomato juice will
also serve the purpose.

N. L. G., Veterinary Dept.
Angell Animal Hosp-ital

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

Ready Reference

Nothing is so disconcerting as a
futile search for a particularly
desired copy of Our Dumb Animals.

Perhaps there was an issue that
you just didn’t get around to read;
perhaps you wanted to refer to
some particular article, story or
poem; perhaps you wanted to save
each issue for your children’s educa—
tion. Whatever it was, a copy or
two have become lost.

Here is a chance to maintain a
permanent ﬁle in your private
library, by buying a bound volume
of the 1943 issues.

Furthermore, these volumes make
splendid gifts, especially to school
and public libraries. But whatever
the reason, send your order now for
the desire-d number of bound vol-
umes of

OUR DUMB ANIMALS for 1943
240 pages; 200 illustrations of
animals and birds

Price .......... $1.50
180 Longwood Ave., Boston 15, Mass.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THE BROOKLINE
SAVINGS BANK

Deposits draw interest from the
10th day of each month

160’ Washington Street
(Village Square)

BRANCH

275 Harvard Street
(Coolidge Corner)

Brookline, Mass.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Humane Films

There are no better silent humane
pictures than

THE BELL OF ATRI

illustrating Longfellow’s poem of
the same title
and

IN BEHALF OF ANIMALS

showing the practical work of the
Massachusetts S. P. C. A., its Rest
Farm for Horses at Methuen, and
the Angell Animal Hospital
For terms of sale or rent, address

Secretary, 180 Longwood Ave.
Boston

 

 

 

 

 

Humane Literature and Band of Mercy Supplies

For sale by the American Humane Education Society and the Massachusetts S. P. C. A.

180 Longwood Avenue, Boston 15, Mass., at these prices, postpaid.

Titles in bold-face type are of books or booklets

Our Dumb Animals, 1943, bound volume $1.50
Colored Posters, 17 x 28 inches, attrac-

tive pictures and verses, six in set .. 1.00
Colored Posters, 17 x 22 inches, eight in

the set .............. 5 cts. each; eight for 35 cts.

About the Horse

Care of the Horse ...................... $1.25 per 100
Humane Education Leaﬂet, No. 5 . .. .. . .50 “ “
The Horse’s Prayer .................... .30 ” “

The Bell of Atri, poem by Longfellow . .

The Shame of It—Mutilating the horse
by setting up his tail. Dr. Rowley.
Four illus., 4 pp. ................... Free

.50 ll (6

About the Dog
Eulogy on the Dog, by Vest, post-card . .$0.50 per 100
Care of the Dog ....................... .75 “ “
Suggestions for Feeding Dogs .......... 1.50 “ “
Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 3 and 4 .50 “ ”
“Don” and His Boy Scout Friends, J. P.

Lyons ............................... .50 “ “
The Story of Barry ................... .30 ” “
Boots’ Day, play, for two boys and three

girls ................. 3 cts. each; ﬁve for 10 cts.

Distemper in Dogs, Dr. Schneider ..... Free

About the Bird

The Birds of God, 318 pp., illus. ....... cloth, $0.45
Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 1 and 2.$0.5O per 100
How the Birds Help the Farmer ........ .50 ” “
The Air-Gun and the Birds ............ .50 “ “

About the Cat
Care of the Cat . .. . . . . $0.75 per 100
The Cat in Literature ................ .50 “ “
Do Not Leave Your Cat to Starve ..... .50 “ “

“The Beggar Cat,” post-card, 6 cts. doz. .50 “ “
About Other Animals

Duration Feeding of the Dog and Cat.. Free

Care of Animals During Air Raids . .. . Free

Farm Animals During Air Raids ....... Free

Do You Know About This? .. .. .. Free

First Aid to Animals, Dr. Schneider, 8 pp. .$1.00 per 100
How to Kill Animals Humanely, 4 pp. .. .75 “ “
Humane Education Leaﬂet, No. 6, Animals .50 “ “
Humane Education Leaﬂet, No. 7, Farm

Animals ............................ .50 “ “
Ways of Kindness ..................... .75 “ “
Care of Rabbits ....................... .30 “ “
Cruelty at Eastertime ................ .75 “ “
Professor Frog’s Lecture, 8 pp. ........ .75 “ “
Why the Toad is so Useful .30 “ “
Hints on the Care of Cows ............ .50 “ “
Directions for the Care of Swine ....... 1.00 “ “
A Wise Fish .......................... .50 “ "

The Jack London Club
Michael Brother of Jerry, Jack London, cloth, 75 cts.

What is the Jack London Club? ........ $0.30 per 100
Foreword from ”Michael Brother of

Jerry” .............................. .30 “ “
Do Wild Animals Prefer Captivity? Helen

Trevelyan, 4 pp. .................... .50 “ “

Films, Fakes and Facts, Helen Trevelyan,

Humane Education
Humane Education, by Dr. Francis H.

Rowley .............................. Free
The Relation of the Home to Character

Formation, Dr. Francis H. Rowley . .. . Free
The Animal or the Child, Dr. Rowley .. . Free
Humane Education and Spiritual Values,

Dr. Rowley ......................... Free
A Great Prophecy, Dr. Rowley ......... Free
Kindness and Humane Education ....... $1.00 per 100
Kindness Picture Book, 32 pp. ......... 10 cts.

The Teacher’s Helper in Humane Educa-
tion, 32 pp. ......................... each, 10 cts.

An Early Start to Kindness, Lucia F.
Gilbert, 48 pp. For ﬁrst and second
grades .............................. each, 10 cts.

“Be Kind to Animals” pennants ....... each, 25 cts.

The Humane Idea, Dr. Francis H. Rowley
cloth, 35 cts.

Friends and Helpers (selections for school
use) Sarah J. Eddy .................. cloth, $1.20

The B—K—T—A—Club, play, 3 cts. each; ten for 25¢.
“And a Little Child Shall Lead Them,”

play ...................... 3 cts. each; ten for 250.
I’ll Never Hunt Again, play 3 cts. each; ﬁve for 10 cts.
The Best Gift, play ....... 2 cts. each; six for 10 cts.
Let Us Have Pets! play, for three boys

and three girls .......... 2 cts each; six for 10 cts.
Humane Exercises ..................... $1.50 per 100
“Be Kind to Animals” blotters ......... $0.50 per 100

Humane Education the Vital Need, Dr.
Rowley, short radio address, 2 cts. each.$o.50 per 100

Humane Education, What to Teach and

How to Teach It .................... .50 “ “
A Talk with the Teacher .............. .50 “ “
Our Love for Animals, a short radio

address .................. 2 cts. each; 1.00 “ “
A Festival of Tender Mercies .......... .50 “ “

How to Organize a Society for the Pro- H “
tection of Animals .................. .50

Bookmark, with “A Humane Prayer” . . 1.00

Twenty Years of Be Kind to Animals
Week, Guy Richardson . .3 cts. each; ten for 25 cts.

Band of Mercy
“Be Kind to Animals” Buttons, two
styles—Humane Society or S. P. C. A. 41.00 per 100

Buttons—white star, Band of Mercy, on
blue ground with gilt letters and border,

one cent each ....................... 1.00 ” “
Badges, gold ﬁnish, large, 10 cts., small 5‘cts.
“Band of Mercy” pennant ............. 25 cts.
Songs of Happy Life (56 pages, words

only) ............................... $3.00 per 100
Band of Mercy Membership Card ...... .50 “ ”
How to Form Bands of Mercy ......... .50 “ “

Does It Pay, Story of one Band of Mercy .30 “
Band of Mercy Register ............... 10 cts.

Our Dumb Animals, monthly publication of our
Societies, $1 per year.

Please enclose remittance with orders for less than 31

AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
180 Longwood Ave., Boston 15, Mass.

 

 

THIS SPACE
CONTRIBUTED

 

 

 

 

 

 

Since 1832
J. S. WATERMAN & SONS, Inc.

Tlﬂnhertakers
BOSTON—BROOKLINE—CAMBRIDGE

City and out-of-town service

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




OUR DUMB ANIMALS March1944

. Page [,4

The Strange Cassowary

T FIRST sight this awkward, funny-looking creature looks like a
A bird without wings, tail, or feathers. They are there, however.
A short tail hidden under the glossy, hair-like feathers, and ﬁve
stiff quills are the only part of the wing that is visible. The legs, short
and heavy, have powerful muscles and these with the aid of three sharp
claws and a strong beak make him one of the ﬁercest ﬁghters of the
jungle and one of the fastest runners. He is a match for most jungle
animals. A ﬂightless bird, the cassowary is probably the rarest and
least known of its kind.

Closely related to the ostrich, it differs greatly in one respect. Its
head, almost bare of feathers, carries a crest of bone, sometimes ﬂat,
other times in certain species rising like a helmet above the large beak.
The neck is adorned with different colored wattles, red, yellow, or blue.
The females stand from ﬁve to six feet; the males are smaller. Despite
its size, however, the bird moves through the dense tangle of stems
and tropical climbers with scarcely a sound.

Found mostly in New Guinea, Australia, and adjoining islands,
this bird makes its nest in the thicket of forests, feeding on fruit, bulbs,
and insects. The eggs, three to six in number, are green, and it is the
father who keeps them warm and guards the ﬂedglings when they are
hatched.

So elusive is this huge bird, that naturalists have searched for it in
vain. Day after day they may come upon fresh tracks made by the
birds, without ever catching a glimpse of a single cassowary. But,
although it seems impossible to catch sight of the wary creature, its
peculiar call-notes—a loud, gutteral grunt, or a deep booming sound——
are often heard.

Though inoffensive and seemingly shy when grown, this queer
large bird is exceedingly quarrelsome and bad-tempered, and defends
itself by kicking. Those seeking to capture them must expect swift
and unrelenting attack.

 

—F. J. Wor’r'all

a

Saint-Saens’ Observations of Animals . . . . By JULIETTE LAINE

 

 

 

HE great French composer, Camille

Saint-Saens, was a sincere lover of

animals and insects, and his writ-
ings give numerous examples of his dis-
coveries and personal experiments with
denizens of the animal world. In one of
his essays he writes of the huge spiders
that are found in Cochin China, and he
relates that their webs are composed of
horizontal and parallel lines which stretch
from one tree to another. But, proving
their intelligence, when the French colo-
nists began setting up telegraph wires,
the insects discovered that these wires
provided them with a warp already made
and promptly established themselves on
these wires. By so doing, they needed
only to spin the woof, on which they
watched for their prey. Certainly such
tactics proved beyond doubt that the
spiders had not only observed the ready-
made net that the wires offered, but had
deliberately taken advantage of this con-
venient fact.

In a letter to a friend the composer
tells of watching a dozen ants feasting
upon a tidbit they had found. “I placed
my ﬁnger near the group,” he writes,

“and they all moved away at different
speeds, indicating different degrees of
fear. But one of the ants paid no atten-
tion at all. After several attempts I
placed my ﬁnger quite close. This time
they all ﬂed and did not return, with the
single exception of the one who had
previously paid no attention. This time
it apparently lost its temper, for it sud-
denly turned around, threatened me with
its mandibles, and then, lowering its
head, it rushed at my ﬁnger with full
speed! I withdrew, overcome by the
prodigious moral courage of the insect!
Where, may I ask, would one ﬁnd a
human being with the courage to charge
a giant taller than the Eiffel Tower?”
Like many other dog owners, Saint-
Saens ﬁrmly believed that dogs possessed
a kind of telepathy, and cites the follow-
ing as one of many experiences which
seem to prove it: “During a Visit to
Teneriffe I {made friends with a dog who
belonged to a gardener. I visited the
beautiful garden almost daily, and al-
ways played with the dog. Finally came
the day of my last visit. I had told no
one of my plan to return at once to

France, yet the dog knew! On that last
day he accompanied me a great distance
along the road, a thing which he had
never done before, and seemed deter-
mined not to leave me. I drove him away
by tricks and pretended threats of vio—
lence, but he continued to follow. I did
not know what to do. Finally, tired of
scolding him, I knelt down in the road
beside him, kissed him, and explained to
him, as carefully as I would to a beloved
child, that I could not possibly take him
with me. When I ﬁnished he gently
licked my hand and sorrowfully, without
one backward glance, returned home.”

&
A Stray Kitten

I do not need a kitten —

Already I have two;

Yet here you stand at my back door —
So what am | to do?

Here is some milk, poor kitty;
Here is a nice box, too.
I wonder — will you go or stay?
I’ll leave that up to you!
—LOREE DOAK

 




 

     

 

7‘
€~C1Rcbeé A’E GLO6

Editor — WILLIAM A. SWALLOW
Assistant Editor — WILLIAM M. MORRILL

sir

SUBSCRIPTION RATES

One dollar per year. Postage free to any part of
the world.

All dollar subscriptions sent direct to the office
entitle the sender to membership in either of our
two Societies.

MANUSCRIPTS relating to animals. particularly
prose articles of about 300 words. are solicited.
We do not wish to consider prose manuscripts
longer than 500 words nor verse in excess of twenty-
four lines. The shorter the better. All manuscripts
should be typewritten and an addressed envelope
with full return postage enclosed with each offering.

Published monthly by The Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals. Publica-
tion office. 46 Central Street. Norwood. Massachu-
setts. Entered as second-class matter. June 29.
l9l7. at the Post Office at Norwood. Mass.. under
the Act of March 3. I879. Acceptance for mailing
at special rate of postage provided for in section
ll03. Act of October 3, I9I7. authorized. July
I3. I9l9.

Address all communications to Editorial Office.
I80 Longwood Avenue. Boston l5. Mass.

’40-;

SURE CURE FOR BOBBY

Confined to his bed with rheumatic fever. nine-year-
old Robert Roche. of Brighton. expressed a desire
for a dog. Bobby wrote to our Society with the
result that a dog found a good home and Bobby

acquired a loving companion to help him get well.

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Founded by Geo. T. Angell. l868
VOLUME 77—No. 2

U. 5. Trade Mark Registered
FEBRUARY. I944.

PUBLISHED BY

THE MASSACHUSETTS SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS
AND
THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY

1’?

Officers

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY. President
ERIC H. HANSEN. Executive Vice-President
ALBERT A. POLLARD. Treasurer
WILLIAM A. SWALLOW. Secretary
PEABODY. BROWN. ROW'LEY & STOREY. Counsel.

Trustees of Permanent Funds

JOHN R. MACOMBER. Chairman of the Board. First Boston Corporation

CHARLES G. BANCROFT. Vice-President and Chairman Finance Committee.
United Shoe Machinery Corporation

CHARLES E. SPENCER, JR.. President. First National Bank of Boston

Massachusetts S. P. C. A.

JOSEPH MOONEY, Treasurer‘s Assistant

Prosecuting Officers in Boston
Telephone (Complaints, Ambulances) Longwood 6100

L. WILLARD WALKER, Chief Officer

HARRY L. ALLEN HOWARD WILLAND
HARVEY R. FULLER J. ROBERT SMITH

County Prosecuting Officers
HERMAN N. DEAN, Boston Middlesex and Norfolk
FRED T. VICKERS, Wenham Eastern Essex
WILLIAM W. HASWELL, Methuen Western Essex
JOSEPH E. HASWELL, Methuen Western Essex

FRED F. HALL, Springfield .
Hampden, Hampshire and Franklin

HARRY C. SMITH, Worcester Worcester
CHARLES E. BROWN, Attleboro, Bristol and Plymouth

HAROLD G. ANDREWS, Hyannis
Barnstable, Dukes and Nantucket

T. KING HASWELL, Pittsfield Berkshire

Rest Farm for Horses and Small Animal Shelter,
Methuen

W. W. HASWELL, Superintendent

Other Small Animal Shelters of M. S. P. C. A.

Boston, 180 Longwood Avenue
Springfield, 53—57 Bliss Street
Pittsfield, 224 Cheshire Road
Attleboro, 3 Commonwealth Avenue
Hyannis, State Road, Rte. 28, Centerville
Wenham, Cherry Street

Branches and Auxiliaries

Northampton Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.—PROF.
IF. R. LIEDER, Pres.; MISS ELIZABETH A. FOSTER,
reas.

Holyoke Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.——AARON M.
BAGG, Pres.; BROOKS WHITE, Treas.

Springfield Branch Auxiliary — MRS. ROBERT R.
MILLER, Pres.; MRS. H. W. STOCKBOWER, Treas.

Winchester Branch Auxiliary — MISS GLADY
FOLTS, Vice-Pres; MRS. DANIEL C. DENNETT, Treass.

Boston Work Committee of Mass. S. P. C. A. —
MRS. GEORGE 'D. COLPAS, Chairman.

American Humane Education Society

Field Workers of the Society
Mrs. Alice L. Park, Palo Alto, California
Mrs. James D. Burton, Harriman, Tennessee
Mrs. Florida L. Byrne, Tacoma, Washington
Mrs. Katherine Weathersbee, Atlanta, Georgia
Rev. Dr. F. Rivers BarnWell, Fort Worth, Texas
Rev. John W. Lemon, Ark, Virginia
Miss Lucia F. Gilbert, Boston, Massachusetts
Rev. R. E. Griffith, De Land, Florida

Field Representative
Dr. Wm. F. H. Wentzel, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

Foreign Corresponding Representatives

E. J. H. Escobar ....................... Colombia
Luis Pareja Cornejo ..................... Ecuador
Leonard T. Hawksley.. ................ Italy

S. C. Batra ............................ India
Mrs. Marie C. E. Houghton ............... Madeira
Dr. A. T. lshkanian ..................... Mexico
Mrs. Alice W. Manning ................. Turkey

is

Angell Memorial Animal Hospital
and Dispensary for Animals

180 Longwood Avenue—Telephone Longwood 6100

Veterinarians

E. F. SCHROEDER, D.V.M., Chief of Staff
*G. B. SCHNELLE, V.M.D., Asst. Chief
R. H. SCHNEIDER, V.M.D.

T. o. MUNSON, V.M.D.

c. L. BLAKELY, V.M.D.

*M. s. ARLEIN, D.V.M.

*L. H. SCAMMAN, D.V.M.

*.\X/ A. \X/ILCOX, D.V.M.

N. L. GREINER, D.V.M.

H. B. SIEGLE, D.V.M.

FRED KEEFE, v.s., B.V.S.
HARRY L. ALLEN, Superintendent

Springfield Branch
Telephone 4—7355
53-57 Bliss Street, Springfield, Mass.
Veterinarians

A. R. EVANS, V.M.D. H. L. SMEAD, D.V.M.
*R. L. LEIGHTON, V.M.D.
H. J. KOPP, V.M.D.
*On leave of absence— military service

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

April 19.41,

Retired Workers’ Fund

E are receiving gifts to the Ameri-

can Humane Education Society as a
trust fund, the interest to be used for the
beneﬁt of ﬁeld missionaries and others
who have spent their lives in promoting
humane education. Already several cases
have come to our attention and are being
relieved in this way. We will welcome
your contribution to this fund.

Please make checks payable to Albert
A. Pollard, Treasurer, American Humane
Education Society, 180 Longwood Ave-
nue, Boston, and specify that the amount
contributed is for the Humane Educa-
tion Trust Fund.

:13

Liberal Annuity Rates
ADVANTAGES

No coupons to clip, no papers to sign and
mail. You simply receive your checks at
stated intervals—that’s all there is to it.

Annuity agreements are frequently used
to provide for one’s or another’s future
years.

It is no experiment. There is no anxiety.
No ﬂuctuations in rate of income. No
waste of your estate by a will contest.

a: a: :1: a:

A pamphlet giving necessary information
gladly sent upon request.

The Massachusetts 5. P. C. A., or the
American Humane Education Society, 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston 15-.

The management of our invested funds is
a guarantee of the security of these Life
Annuities.

RATES OF MEMBERSHIP IN

THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
OR THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.

Active Life $100 00 Active Annual $10 00

Associate Life 50 00 Associate Annual 5 00

Sustaining Life 20 00 Annual 1 00
Children’s $0 75

Checks and other payments may be sent to ALBERT
A. POLLARD, Treasurer, 180 Longwood Avenue,
Boston 15.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

HOSPITAL REPORT FOR FEBRUARY

At 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston 15

Cases entered in Hospital ...... 7 7 7
Cases entered in Dispensary . . . 1,342
Operations .................. 303
At Springﬁeld Branch, 53 Bliss Street
Cases entered in Hospital ..... 259
Cases entered in Dispensary . . . 621
Operations .................. 110

At Attleboro Clinic, 3 Commonwealth Ave.

Cases entered ............... 91
Totals
Hospital cases since opening
Mar. 1, 1915 .............. 230,083
Dispensary cases ............. 576,088
Total ........... 806,171

FEBRUARY REPORT OF THE OFFI-
CERS OF THE MASSACHUSETTS
S. P. C. A., WITH HEADQUARTERS AT
BOSTON, METHUEN, SPRINGFIELD,
PITTSFIELD, ATTLEBORO, WENHAM,
HYANNIS, WORCESTER, FITCHBURG,
NORTHAMPTON, HAVERHILL, HOL-
YOKE, ATHOL, COVERING THE EN-
TIRE STATE.

Miles traveled by humane ofﬁcers 13,779
Cases investigated ............. 229
Animals examined ............ 4,521
Animals placed in homes ...... 200
Lost animals restored to owners 71
Number of prosecutions ....... 12
Number of convictions ........ 12
Convicted for being present at
cockﬁght .................. 52
Horses taken from work ....... 5
Horses humanely put to sleep . . . 22
Small animals humanely put to
sleep ..................... 1,145
Horse auctions attended ....... 1-5
Stockyards and Abattoirs
Animals inspected ............ 56,159
Cattle, swine and sheep humanely
put to sleep ................ 61

 

 

tion with any other similar Society.

FORM OF

property. describe the property).

given gladly.

TO OUR FRIENDS

In making your will. kindly bear in mind that the corporate title ot our Society is "The Massachu-
setts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals": that it is the second incorporated (March.
|868) Society for the Prevention ot Cruelty to Animals in the country. and that it has no connec-

Any bequest especially intended for the beneﬁt of the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital. should.
nevertheless. be made to the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals "tor
the use of the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital." as the Hospital is not incorporated but is the
property of that Society and is conducted by it.

I give to The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals
American Humane Education Society). the sum of ................ dollars. (or. it other

The Society's address is |80 Longwood Avenue. Boston I5. Mass. Information and advice will be

BEQUEST
(ortothe

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page ’73

Veterinary Column

HERE are a few common ear diseases,

which if recognized and cared for in
their early stages, would eliminate grief
and pain. One of these is the hematoma,
a large “blood blister.” The small blood
vessels become ruptured and the blood
ﬂows out into the surrounding tissue.
The animal holds his head to the side,
the affected ear down, and frequently
shakes his head. The ear is very sensi-
tive to the touch, and a distinct bulging
of the surface is noted. Immediate treat-
ment is required. The longer the condi-
tion is neglected, the more sever-e it be-
comes. Shaking the head and scratching
the ear only aggravate the hematoma.
Treatment should be handled by a vet—
erinarian in all cases. It is necessary to
anesthetize the animal, incise the ear to
drain the blood, and stitch (suture) the
incision. After-care is important, also.
The ear should be kept bandaged tightly
to the head and frequent dressings are
advisable. In most cases the prognosis is
favorable.

A rather common ear problem, especi-
ally in dogs with long pendulous ears, is
otitis externa or auricular catarrh.
There are a variety of causes. Some of
the more common ones are (a) accumula—
tions of cerumen (wax), dirt and mois-
ture. These substance-s cause irritation,
resulting in inﬂammation and even infec—
tion. (b) Retention of debris from acute
attacks will lead to further irritation, re-
sulting in the chronic form of the disease
with considerable thickening of the tis-
sues. (c) In young animals the condi-
tion is sometimes associated with dis-
temper. (d) The presence of ear para-
sites (mites) will often bring about the
irritation. This cause can be very severe,
sometimes the mites work so far into the
ear canal as to cause the animal loss of
equilibrium. (e) Auricular catarrh is
often found in cases with chronic eczema.

The symptoms most often noted are
almost constant shaking and scratching
of the ears. The animal is extremely rest-
less and rubs his ears along the rugs and
furniture. Along the margins of the ears
is noticed a bloody discharge. In the
later stages there may be pus formation
and a “running” of the ears.

This condition, again, should be treated
by your veterinarian. However, the pet
owner can do much to prevent the occur-
rence of auricular catarrh. Frequent
examination of the ears and keeping the
ear free of dirt and wax will do much
toward its prevention. Also, when bath-
ing the dog or cat it will be beneﬁcial to
stuff large pieces of absorbent cotton into
the ears. This will prevent water and
soap entering deep into the ear canal and
remaining there. Use a large enough
piece of cotton so that it will not work
down into the ear.

N. L. G., Veterinary Dept.
Angell Animal Hospital

 

 




December 1941,

Retired W7orkers9 Fund

WE are receiving gifts to the Ameri-

can Humane Education Society as a
trust fun, the interest to be used for the
beneﬁt of ﬁeld missionaries and others
who have spent their lives in promoting
humane education. Already several cases
have come to our attention and are being
relieved in this way. We will welcome
your contribution to this fund.

Please make checks payable to Albert
A. Pollard, TreaSurer, American Humane
Education Society, 180 Longwood Ave-
nue, Boston, and specify that the amount
contributed is for the Humane Educa-
tion Trust Fund.

A

Liberal Annuity Rates
ADVANTAGES

No coupons to clip, no papers to sign and
mail. You simply receive your checks at
stated intervals—that’s all there is to it.

Annuity agreements are frequently used
to provide for one’s or another’s future
years. i

It is no experiment. There is no anxiety.
No fluctuations in rate of income. No
waste of your estate by a will contest.

, ‘k ‘A' 'k *

A pamphlet giving necessary information
gladly sent upon request.

The Massachusetts S. P. C. A., or the
American Humane Education Society, 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston 15.

The Management of our invested funds is
a guarantee of the security of these Life

Annuities.

RATES OF MEMBERSHIP IN

THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
OR THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.

Active Life $100 00 Active Annual $10 00

Associate Life 50 00 Associate Annual 5 00

Sustaining Life 20 00 Annual 1 00
Children’s $0 75

Checks and other payments may be sent to ALBERT
A. POLLARD, Treasurer, 180 Longwood Avenue,
Boston 15.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

HOSPITAL REPORT FOR OCTOBER
At 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston 15

Cases entered in Hospital ...... - 922
Cases entered in Dispensary . . . . 1,949
Operations .................. 307

At Springﬁeld Branch, 53 Bliss Street

Cases entered in Hospital ...... 270

Cases entered in Dispensary . . . 924

Operations .................. 135

Totals
Hospital cases since opening
Mar. 1, 1915 .............. 239,233 ‘

Dispensary cases ............ 597,206

Total ............ 836,439

OCTOBER REPORT OF THE OFFICERS
OF THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.,
WITH HEADQUARTERS AT BOSTON,
METHUEN, SPRINGFIELD, PITTSFIELD,

ATTLEBORO, WENHAM, HYANNIS,
WORCESTER, FITCHBURG, NORTH-
AMPTON, HAVERHILL, HOLYOKE,

ATHOL, BROCKTON AND NEW BED-
FORD, COVERING THE ENTIRE STATE.

Miles traveled by humane ofﬁcers 14,271
Cases investigated ............ 237
Animals examined ............ 3,506
Animals placed in homes . . . . . . . 328
Lost animals restored to owners . 61
Number of prosecutions . .. ...... 4
Number of convictions ......... 4
Horses taken from work ........ 18
Horses humanely put to sleep . . . 31
Small animals humanely put to
sleep ...................... 2,446
Horse auctions attended ........ 18
Stockyards and Abattoirs
Animals inspected ............ 85,530
Cattle, swine and sheep humanely
put to sleep ................ 40

 

 

tion with any other similar Society.

property. describe the property).

given gladly.

 

 

TO OUR FRIENDS

In making your will kindly bear in mind that the corporate title ot our Society is "The Massachu-
setts Society tor the Prevention ot Cruelty to Animals"; that it is the second incorporated (March.
I868) Society tor the Prevention ot Cruelty to Animals in the country, and that it has no connec—

Any bequests especially intended tor the benetit ot the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital. should,
nevertheless. be made to the Massachusetts Society tor the Prevention ot Cruelty to Animals "tor
the use ot the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital." as the Hospital is not incorporated but is the
property of that Society and is conducted by it.

FORM OF BEQUEST

I give to The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (or to the
American Humane Education Society), the sum of ................ dollars (or. it other

The Society's address is |80 Longwood Avenue. Boston l5. Mass. lntormation and advice will be

 

 

 

 

 

Page 233

Veterinary Column

1. Question: My six-months—old puppy
recently developed distemper, and I had
him humanely put to sleep, having heard
that there was no cure for this disease,
and being worried about the children.

, Was there any hope for him?

Answer: Distemper is the most serious
disease of young dogs and many succumb
to it. However, with present day medica-
tions and careful nursing, they may re-
cover, provided complications do not
arise. The disease is not contagious to
humans, so that the children could not
have contracted it from the puppy. It
is essential in the care of cases of dis-
temper that they be hept warm, at as
even a temperature as possible, and quiet.

In the matter of diet, protein foods
should be stressed, speciﬁcally milk, raw
eggs, and meat, and food should be prof-
fered three times daily. If the dog is
house broken, he should be taken out to
relieve himself, then kept indoors and
quiet 'at all other times. Daily grooming
with brush and comb are advised, but he
should never be bathed. Worm medicines
should be rigorously avoided, unless ea:-
pressly prescribed by your veterinarian.
A warm boric acid solution should be
used in the eyes, and the nose should be
cleaned of discharge and coated with,
vaseli‘ne to prevent drying.

For medication, your veterinarian will
prescribe one of the sulfonamides to be
given at regular intervals. Also large
doses of vitamins are essential in the
treatment. The use of other drugs varies
with the course of the disease and compli-
cations which may develop. In all cases
your veterinarian should be consulted as
soon as the ﬁrst symptoms are noted.

2. Question: Following distemper my
dog developed a constant jerk in his right
front leg. He seems well otherwise, but
this twitching persists and is annoying.
My veterinarian has told me that this
condition may persist indeﬁnitely, and I
wish another opinion about it.

Answer: Chorea, the name usually ap-
plied to this condition, is a complication
resulting from the action of the distemper
virus upon the nervous system. It is
diﬂicult to treat, and many dogs retain
this twitch throughout their lives. Large
doses of vitamins are indicated, with
especial emphasis upon vitamin C, or
ascorbic acid.

R. M. B., Veterinary Dept.
Angell Animal Hospital

4.3

E urge all members of the Jack

London Club to express their dis-
approval of offensive trained animal acts
whenever and wherever possible. Both
stage and screen are under public censor-
ship. Let them be enjoined from catering
cruelty.

 

 

 

 

 




Page 228 0 U R D U M B A [V I M A L S [)306mbe’r 19.4.4

Animals” Christmas Night . . . . By MABEL HATTON MARKS

Lay watching and without surprise
The woman and the man who softly prayed
Above the bright-haired baby, fast asleep.

 

The stable's room was warm and comforting
With fresh-laid straw,- although aware
Of something strange, the cattle scarcely stirred

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

As the lantern's light shone flickering,
Then, with a sudden yellow flare
Made grotesque shadows huge and blurred.

A day-old calf, its round eyes

Large and blinking, wobbled unafraid
To where a calm contented sheep

Passport for the Donkey
By VIRGINIA M. EVANS

I think if it were mine to state

The animal most apt to be

Admitted at the pearly gate

Where Peter wields his ponderous key,
I'd choose a very humble one,

One often scorned by humankind,
Yet friend of Mary and her Son:

(I’m sure, Saint Peter wouldn’t mind.)

a

Reciprocity
By MARY STONER WINE

I wonder if the little lambs and sheep

Safe herded in the fields that Christmas night

Were wakened from their stolid, dreamless
sleep

By angel voices and the heavenly light?

And were there cattle in that stable shed

When Heaven stooped to share their manger .

rude?
Did they begrudge Him room for His hard bed
And watch when shepherds round Him stood?
The docile flocks and herds, and cooing
doves
For ages past had been man's sacrifice
For sin. Had they not shared man's hates
and loves?
And now all heaven shares with them its price
Of great redeeming love. It chose a stall
To cradleChrist, the Babe, the Lord of all.

&

“Inasmuch . . .’
By MARION H. ADDINGTON

,

On Christmas Day as I passed by
A house upon a hill

I saw a sheaf of grain hung high
Where birds might take their fill.

The invitation read most plain
To any feathered flock,

And fair and round and plump the grain;
The finest of the shock.

How happy such a fireside,
How blessed beyond words

Are those who pause at Christmas-tide
To feed the hungry birds!

A lonely dog, unwanted at the Inn
Crept through the door from out the empty dark;
Soon feeling comforted

Among the group where all were kin

43

Little Lambs Were Still
By ELIZABETH M. ALCOX

Within their mother’s fleece, that night
The lambs lay cuddled, warm . . .

Their baby hearts were filled with peace
Secure from cold and storm.

The weary shepherds, in the dusk,
Close huddled 'round their fire

Sleepily spoke of days long gone . . .
When . . . Lo! A Heavenly choir!

The clear white Light of God . .
Upon that humble hill!

In awe and fear the shepherds lay . . .
Even the lambs were still.

. ablaze

“This Day to you a King is born”
Rang gloriously that night!
But see!

Now fades celestial Light!

’Tis gone . . . as tho' it never was!
The little lambs arise

With babyish wonder and amaze
Reflected in their eyes!

But, ringing down the Heavenly Way
Still comes to thee . . . to me

Life . . . Light . . . and Universal Love . . .
OUr immortality.

4.3

Soliloquy of a Dog
By ANNE BREMER

Upon that first sweet Christmas night,
Within the stable warm and bright,

There must have been a dog like me,
Who basked beneath the glowing light

And kept from harm the Christ Child, wee.

And one who went, safe watch to keep,
Among the shepherds and the sheep;
Until that flaming Heavenly Star
lllumined all the hillsides steep,

And led the Wise Men from afar.

For since the world of time began,

We have companioned lonely man;
And so I know that we were there—
That it was part of God’s own plan

That-we should guardthe Christ Child, fair.

The radiance clims, it pales . . .

He gave a glad tail-wag, a grateful bark
And curled to sleep beside the manger bed.

Ox of Bethlehem
By VIRGINIA M. EVANS

To see me bowed beneath the yoke,

A beast of burden, long-inured

To heat or cold or stinging lash,

Who'd dream my great, great grandsire
stirred

With something quite like ecstasy

One star-hung night of long ago,

When a new-born babe's prophetic cry

Rang, echoing across the snow.

:13

Christmas Secret

By VALINE HOBBS

If I could only talk like you
Or you could bark instead,
I’d tell you what I saw last night
When you had gone to bed.
I dozed upon the hearthrug there,
My nose upon my paws.
The clock- struck one. I peeped an eye—
And there stood Santa Claus!

He seemed surprised to find me there
And said, “Now don’t you bark,”
Then set to work, but presently
He vanished in the dark.

Now don't you wish that you had been
A-dozing in that chair,

And that you, too, had peeped an eye
And found him working there?

Santa’s secret’s safe with me—
.He knew I would not tell,

For you can’t bark and I can’t talk—
Perhaps it’s just as well!

@
A Dog’s Day
By DON MARSHALL

Dear Santa, l have heard folks say
That every dog should have its day,
And so I dip my paw in ink

To say the ideal gift, I think,
Would be a master who can run
From dawn until the setting sun.
Some one who’s good at signal talk,
Who knows the woodlands like a hawk. .
Some one who likes to feel a nose
Just slightly moist against his toes.
So Santa—don’t bring me a toy
But just give me an average boy!

 

 




 

Page 24

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Monkey Is Ship’s “Raid Spotter”

By J. C. TOOHILL

ONG before an enemy plane is

ll sighted, or even heard, they know

of its approach on the good ship
Father Neptune because, to the great de—
light of the crew, Jennie takes a ﬂying
leap onto the bridge and bites the of-
ﬁcer of the watch.

Jennie, who is a West African monkey,
signed on as ship’s mascot at Gibraltar
three months before the war. And she
is such a good mascot that, though the
Father Neptune has been in continuous
service since the beginning of the war
and in the hottest possible places, she
has escaped unscarred.

So Jennie, quite rightly, queens it over
the whole crew.

While unanimously in agreement with
Jennie’s action in biting ofﬁcers of the
watch, opinion in the forecastle is divided
as to what prompts her to do it. Some
say this, some say that. But the general
belief is that she hates gunﬁre and, hav-
ing connected the noise of a plane with
the thing she so detests, Jennie just na—
turally has a crack at the one she thinks
is responsible for it.

“She’s human, that’s what she is,”
said Ginger, the chief stoker, piously.

When, after her ﬁfth attack, Chippy

Simian Knows His Planes

APS is a monkey, but there’s no

monkey business about his ability to
spot planes. Owned by Private Don C.
Carl, of Butternut, Wisconsin, Taps is a
24-hour, round-the-clock lookout for an
American Anti-Aircraft gun crew sta—
tioned in India.

From his 20-foot perch overlooking the
crew’s gun pit, Taps identiﬁes planes by
the sound of their motors. His extra
keen hearing enables him to detect the
approach of planes long before the gun-
ners.

If it is an American bomber or ﬁghter
that is approaching, Taps pays no atten-
tion, but continues playing around on his
horizontal bar. If it is a Jap plane, Taps
sets up an almighty chatter, rattles his
long chains as he hops around excitedly.

When he is convinced that his warning
has been heeded, Taps ducks quietly into
his combined bedroom and air-raid shel-
ter—a box made of empty ammunition
cases, lined with burlap.

Taps is so well acquainted with bombs
bursting in the air nearby, that nothing
will entice him from his air-raid shelter
except the “all clear” signal.

Private Carl and his fellow gunners
regard Taps as every bit as good as their
technical listening equipment and some-
times better.

—Browne Sampsell

Pullin, the carpenter who owns her, said
he was going to tie her up, there was a
howl of protest from the forecastle.

“She can’t possibly do us any harm,”
the crew argued.

So to show her impartiality, Jennie
then bit in quick succession, the bos’n,
the cook and the ﬁreman.

“You must have done something to
annoy her,” said Chippy severely. “A
milder-mannered monkey never lived.”

And to prove it, Jennie cheerfully bit
Chippy, as well.

Once, when she mistook the noise of an
electric fan for an airplane, she “chewed
up” half the crew.

“I wish someone would teach her air-
craft recognition,” said Second Ofﬁcer
Sam Wilson ruefully.

“I don’t mind being bitten in a good
cause, but Jennie doesn’t give you time
to explain that it’s only one of ours.
She’s bitten me four times, but we
wouldn’t part with her for all the tea in
China.”

And Jennie, squatting on the chief of-
ﬁcer’s dressing table, testing one of his
razor blades with her teeth, sniffed dis-
dainfully.

—— London Daily M irror

&

Obituary of Famous Animals

F LATE, death has claimed three
famous animals, two dogs and a
Bozo, mind-reading dog, died at
Tampa, Florida. His feats of mind-read-
ing amazed audiences and psychologists

throughout the world. He had eight

cat.

“honorary” university degrees, per-
formed before more than 40,000,000 per-
sons, earned more than $100,000 for his
owner, Capt. E. C. Lower, and was in-
sured for $10,000.

****

The other dog, Balou, 12-year-old male-
mute served nobly with Boy Scout Paul
Siple and Admiral Richard Byrd in the
Antarctic from 1933 to 1935. He died of
old age at the Siple residence in Erie,
Pennsylvania. His death occurred on the
ﬁfteenth anniversary of the sailing of the
ﬁrst Byrd expedition in 1928.

46964646

“Bob,” the Downing Street black cat,
also died of the inﬁrmities of old age. Bob
became famous for his friendship with
England’s Prime Minister Winston
Churchill, who was often seen to stop and
stroke him. During the Munich crisis he
was photographed many times as he sat
on the steps of No. 10. When the treas-
ury was bombed, Bob, along with the
staff, was forced to take up quarters in
the foreign oﬂice, where he died.

—Stephen J. Schmiedl

February 1944

The Mother

By MARY BOYD WAGNER

Dodging the oncoming traffic—
Wary ot careless teet—

Daytime or night you may see her
Cautiously cross the street.

Body that’s gaunt and sagging
Under her dragging fur—

Fear-ridden eyes that are dulled by the pain
Life has dealt out to her.

No one in all of the thousands
Notices her in her need;

No one—it seems—cares a hoot that she has
Six little mouths to feed.

Merciless hunger and torturing thirst—
These she can comprehend—

These she accepts as her lot in life;
What she wants most is a friend.

But each of her timid advances
Meets with belligerent scats:
And home relief doesn’t consider

Little stray mother cats.

4%
First Cruelty Law

HE illustration below is reproduced
through the courtesy of the First Na—
tional Bank of Boston, the original draw-
ing in color having been used by that
bank in an historical blotter series.
Below the picture is the following:
“The ﬁrst law in Massachusetts for the
prevention of cruelty to animals was en—
acted by the General Court in 1692.
‘Calves, sheep and lambs, brought alive
to market, should be driven or carried in
carts, sleds, panniers, or boats, and not

“otherwise, that is, not slung by the sides

of horses.’ ”

Apprehending a Culprit

 

 




 

 

 

Page 26

Kangaroo Adoption

ECHNICAL Sergeant Max Bland, of

Lovett, Fla.,. and Staff Sergeant R. T.
Chism, of Gridley, Calif, both aerial
gunners on a Flying Fortress, have for-
gotten to brag about the weather of their
respective states in the pleasure of car-
ing for a pygmy kangaroo and its ﬁve in-
fants with which they share their tent
in North Africa.

When they are not on operational
sweeps against the enemy or cleaning
their guns, the two sergeants are busy
with their personal menagerie. The ani—
mals are housed in a tin fragmentation-
bomb box to which the gunners bring
daily a supply of barley from a nearby
ﬁeld.

“If I could only get some screen,”
Sergeant Chism remarked, “I could make
them a nice home.”

A reconnoitering trip and thorough
search of the neighborhood, however,
failed to unearth the desired material
and, unfortunately, there are no hard-
ware stores in the Arab villages near the

base.
a

Bull Who Became a God

E WAS just a black bull.

Yet he was worshipped by the
ancient Egyptians as the reincarnated
soul of Osiris, their great god of the
underworld and the judge of the dead.
He was called Apis.

In the city of Memphis, Apis the bull
had a splendid residence of his own,
with extensive walks and courts for his
entertainment. He was waited upon by
a large train of priests, who looked upon
his every movement as oracular.

A magniﬁcent temple was built es-
pecially for him, where divine honors
were paid to him. Each year his birthday
was celebrated elaborately. Under the
form of the sacred bull the god Osiris,
who was supposed to have once been an
Egyptian king, was in this way held to
be always present among men.

The black bull the priests chose to rep-
resent Osiris always had certain distin-
guishing marks. Apis was not suffered
to live beyond twenty—ﬁve years. Being
secretly killed by the priests, he was em-
balmed with divine honors and buried in
the rock-cut Serapeum in the necropolis
of Memphis, his soul passing to the world
beyond as Osiris-Apis. A new Apis was
supposed to be born upon the death of
the old, so the priests searched for an-
other black bull bearing the identical
marks.

Apis was supposed to have been en-
gendered by a moonbeam. The soul of
the great god Osiris was supposed to
animate him and make him sacred.

But he was just a black bull!

——Max Meredith

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

ANIMA LORE

BEES, ﬂies and other insects are blind to
the color red.

WHIPPOORWILL—Most people recog-
nize the call of the whippoorwill, but
few persons actually have seen the bird,
which rarely flies about in daytime.

WALRUS—Old male Paciﬁc walruses
weigh from 2,000 to 3,000 pounds.

MUSK-OX is one of the most unusual
animals in North America. It looks like
a small, odd kind of buffalo and is
similar in certain respects to both cattle

and sheep.

FRIENDS IN NEED—If ladybugs and
lacewing ﬂies visit your garden, you
are lucky, for they destroy destructive
plant lice without harming the plants.
Ichneumon ﬂies are invaluable aids to
farmers because they lay their eggs in
the larvae of other harmful insects.
Thus the parasitic grub kills its host
which would otherwise destroy crops.

TORTOISE—The proverbial speed of
the tortoise has been measured at twenty
feet a minute or four miles a day.

BEAKLESS BIRD—The earliest known
bird did not have a beak.

SWAN SONG—The swan never sings a
swan song because the mute swan of
Europe, about which the swan song
legend is told, has no note at all.

CORAL SNAKE, gaily colored reptile,
found in Florida, is considered more
deadly than either the rattler or the
water moccasin.

EVIL EYE—Charms against the Evil
Eye are so prevalent in Naples, Italy,
that even horses are equipped with them.
This superstition has given rise to the
common practice of putting brass studs
on harness.

MONKEY—Both Mr. Ditmars and Mr.
Hornaday assert that the American
monkey is the only one with a prehensile
tail, with which it grasps or swings from
branches. The tail of the African mon-
key is merely a balance wheel.

4%

Any unusual or interesting facts con-
cerning animals will be gratefully re-
ceived. Please mention source. Address
—Animalore, Our Dumb Animals, 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston 15, Mass.

February 1941;

Ants Are Intelligent

O WONDER King Solomon wrote,

“Go to the ant, thou sluggard,” for
these busy little creatures show a re-
markable intelligence. We humans have
learned many lessons from them, and can
still learn more.

Some kinds of ants are farmers. They
plant fungus gardens and harvest the
crop. Other ants are called Harvester
ants, and they collect vast quantities of
seeds and grain, which they store in
underground granaries. They even
spread the grain out to dry before stor—
ing it, so it will not become moldy.

Most remarkable of all, they show al-
most human sagacity, by biting off one
end of each seed, thus preventing it
from sprouting underground.

Another species of Harvester ant, a
larger kind, are the grain crushers for
the colony. These have large jaws, with
which they crush the grain or seeds, so
the smaller ants can get at the foo-d in-
side.

It is said, that at least eighteen dif-
ferent kinds of seeds have been found in
these ant granaries.

Another species of ant, called Leaf-
cutters, raise their own crop. The
workers carry bits of vegetation into the
nest and arrange it in a seed bed, and on
this the queen plants a tiny speck of
fungus.

The workers then busily fertilize this
“crop,” by spreading dung of certain
caterpillars over the “bed.” Sometimes
the queen breaks open her ﬁrst eggs, to
provide extra nourishment for the
“garden.”

In some very mysterious way, the
workers then “treat” the garden so tiny
white swellings, like minute cabbage
heads, grow on the fungus. These “cab-
bages,” the ants eat for food.

Scientists have grown exactly the same
fungus in their laboratories but have
never mastered the problem of producing
the “cabbages.” This is still the secret
of the intelligent ants.

—I la Marie Baird

d

Puppy Love
By HELEN SUTIN

Don’t know what I’m going to do,

That pup has chewed up my new shoe.
He springs at me with quiv’ring nose
And tears a run in my nylon hose!

He wags that tail in fiendish glee

And grins at torn upholstery,

And housebreaking—tho’ we’re on guard
He thinks the rugs are his back yard!

You want to buy him—really do,
And take my dog away with you?
That friendly, gay, devoted cuss—
No thank you, pal, he stays with us!

 




 

 _ _ MARCH - 1944

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

/

RI'NORTH

The MASSACHUSETTS SOCIETY for the PREVENTION of CRUELTY to ANIMALS

  

and the

AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY




 

 

 

From the

PRESIDENT’S DESK

 

 

rllFHE sight of human affairs deserves

admiration and pity; they are
worthy of respect too, and he is not in—
sensibl-e who pays them the undemonstra-
tive tribute of a sigh which is not a sob,
and of a smile which. is not a grin.

—Conrad

@

HE Chinese have a proverb — “He

who soars not, suffers not by fall.”
But nevertheless the joy of soaring may
compensate many a fall, and falling is not
so bad, after all, just so we pick our-
selves up bravely, preferring a few falls
to the dead level of materialism. We
must keep our “wagon hitched to a star”
for our own soul’s sake.

—Mrs. M. R. L. Freshel

@

IF you want to avoid the language of

a saying that belongs to the stone
age, and yet have a good substitute, why
not say, “ﬂying two kites with one
string,” instead of “killing two birds
with one stone?”

4%

VER against the demand for uni-
versal military training, how ﬁne
by contrast was the suggestion of Ana—
tole France that a delegation of teachers
of all nations meet to formulate in com-
mon a universal system of instruction,
and consider the means to be taken to
implant in young minds the ideas from
which would spring the peace of the
world and the union of the peoples.

@

O believe all the good things said

about you reveals your failure to
obey the old Greek proverb, “Know thy-

self.”
4%

F doubt is the beginning of wisdom,
sometimes alas it is the end of it.

' this question.

Dare We Hope?

HOW keenly do they suffer—these

lowlier children of life, when
beaten, oveerrked, sick or injured?
Have they nervous organisms so nearly
akin to ours that they are conscious of
such suffering as we know when hurt or
sick? It is probably quite foolish to ask
No man with certainty
can answer it.

Then another question arises. If there
is a good and merciful God, in whom so
many of us must believe and before whom
not even a sparrow falls without His
notice, how could He have fashioned
these creatures of earth and air with
such a sensitiveness to pain as we know,
when He knew how they must be sub-
jected to all the cruelty men could in-
ﬂict upon them, and for which they are
in no sense responsible?

Do they suffer? They give every evi-
dence of it. They cry out, they ﬂee from
their tormentor if they can. Dare we
hope they suffer far less keenly than we
do? To be sure, innocent men and women
and children suffer because of the evil
deeds of others, as millions in this sad
world today are suffering in this ghastly
war because of the crimes of their human
fellows, and that because we are bound
up with our human kind in family, social
and national relationship that cannot be
broken.

But beast and bird do not suffer be-
cause their parents or their children have
violated any moral law. Have these other
children of life, if they know pain and
suffering as we know it, nothing beyond
the present that may seem like compensa-
tion? Are the scales of justice, so far
as they are concerned, sometime, some-
where to be balanced?

@

HAT is done for the child today
will reveal itself in his character
tomorrow and in all his tomorrows.

Again Thanksgiving Day

N this Thanksgiving Day of 1944,
in many a home in this land of
ours, there will be more sadness than
joy. Yet grateful must we be that this
deadly war, so far as Europe is con-
cerned, is over, if it is, or even if it is
not, that its end cannot be far away.
What less can those who still have the
unbroken home and from whose table
this Thanksgiving Day no face is missing
—what less can they do than lift their
hearts in prayer for those less blest than
they?
a

A Bit of Ancient History

HAT the heart of man has changed

very little with the centuries is evi-
dent to all who know the records of the
past. Occasionally today we read of
someone who has made provision in case
of his death for some favorite animal
that may outlive him. In Plutarch’s
“Life of Alexander” he tells us that the
great battle this distinguished Mace—
donian fought with Darius was at Gauga-
mela, which signiﬁes “the camel’s house,”
and tells us that this city received its
name from the fact that one of the
ancient Persian kings, having escaped
the pursuit of his enemies on a swift
camel, in gratitude to his beast, settled
him at this place with an allowance of
certain villages and rents for his main-
tenance so long as he should live.

«3

We are blind until we see
That in the universal plan
Nothing is worth the making
If it does not make the Man.

Why build these cities glorious
If Man unbuilded goes?

In vain we build the world

Unless the builder also grows.

—Edwin Markham

 




 

 

m.
e
g
a

P
e
e

S

N

E

T

H

K

S
T
P

o

D

A

Y

E

K

N

O

M

Y,

L

D

N

E

R

F

 

 

 




 

M arch 1 941;

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Animals in the “Funnies”
By ALETHA M. BONNER

HE practice of endowing animal

characters with human intelligence

seems to have had beginning in the
Fables of Aesop, and countless comic-
strip artists have created a variety of
animal characters of astute understand-
mg.

These artists are kind to the pets in
their pictures—rarely ever is a bird or
an animal mistreated, and the creatures
themselves are often given the opportu-
nity to “speak their mind” in matters of
humane treatment.

Widely known and much loved are our
friends of the “Funnies.” In 1924,
Harold Gray brought int-o pictorial being
the shaggy-coated Sandy and the curly-
headed Orphan Annie. Even as in the
case of Mary and her faithful lamb, so it
may be said that everywhere that Annie
travels her dog is sure to go!

If Sandy would say more than his
usual “Arf !” he might tell some interest-
ing things about his artist-creator,
Harold Lincoln Gray.

In his twenty-third year Gray joined
the staff of the Chicago Tribune as artist.
He later established his own studio, doing
commercial art work. Sandy and Annie
ﬁrst appeared on the pages of The
Tribune, and the New York News, and
now they go their adventurous way in
over two hundred and ﬁfty newspapers.

Daisy, canine pet of the Bumstead
household, is still another dog that could
give out information of biographic in—
terest covering her pen master, Chic
(Murat Bernard) Young.

Blondie and Dagwood, Alexander and
Cookie, together with their host of reader
friends, would be very disconsolate with-
out Daisy and her puppies. It is true that
Daisy is often accused of voicing “strong
language,” yet whose temper would not
be rufﬂed occasionally when one’s cartoon-
ist-creator permits the irrepressible pups
to take so many liberties with a digniﬁed
mother! 7

Mr. Young is a Chicagoan by birth, and
is the originator of several comic strips.

43
Where Fear Is Banished . .

inquisitive of four-legged crea-

tures; their shyness in most dis-
tricts would appear to be an acquired
trait, resulting from bitter experience
with man and his weapons. Where wild-
life is accorded full protection, it does
not take long for the deer to lose their
fear. “Pal,” a ﬁne buck who lives in
Riding Mountain National Park, Mani-
toba, is well known to many visitors
there. He has learned that the noisy
metal monsters which travel the motor
roads are not really dangerous, and con-
tain folks who are really quite nice when
you get to know them. Here the friendly
deer of Riding Mountain is “holding up”
a car to exact tribute in the form of a
tasty bit of lunch and a gentle pat on his
velvet nose. He did not object at all
when Mrs. E. Gracey, of Rapid City, got
out of the car and took a picture.

Park wardens think that Pal must be
a relative of “Harry,” another deer who
lives in Prince Albert Park in the next-
door province of Saskatchewan. Harry’s
natural inquisitiveness has led him into
many “scrapes,” and he so haunted the
highways in search of sweets that he
had to be banished to a remote section
of the Park for his own protection. He
insisted on sharing the warden’s cabin,
and could be kept out of the driver’s seat
of his friends’ motor cars only with the
greatest difﬁculty. Once he wandered

DEER are naturally among the most

back into town and was found with his
front feet on a pram, trying to make
friends with the rather frightened infant
within. Harry developed the unfortunate
habit of chewing tobacco; and it was to
save him from further contaminations of
civilization—and to preserve the peace of

Gentle highwayman exacts tribute from passing car.

Page 49

The one, entitled “Blondie,” made its
pen debut in 1930.

Many dogs appear in Tepee Town, of
Saunders and Woggon creation. This
script-and-pen team held well to humane
principles in a Thanksgiving message
featured some years back. In the strip,
Chief Wahoo had been instructed by
Princess Minnie Ha—Cha to shoot a wild
turkey for a Tepee-Town Thanksgiving
dinner. “Wahoo hates to shoot an’ hurt
um birds,” the Chief objects, and ac-
cordingly he buys a plaster of Paris
turkey used by window decorators.

To mention a few pictorial animal
favorites of earlier day fame, along with
their human companions, will be to name
F. Opper’s Si and his Mule, Maude;
Richard Outcault’s Buster Brown and
Tigue; Billy de Beck’s Barney Google and
Spark Plug; with Krazy—Kat, Archie,
Napoleon, Donald Duck and Mickey
Mouse joining yet other birds and ani-
mals in the comic-strip parade, which
has wended its way down the century.

Through the understanding pen minis—
tration of the pictorial humorist all
animal life and character has been en-
dearingly portrayed.

, By W. J. BANKS

mind of local mothers—that he was ﬁnally
transferred to Kingsmere Lake. There
he insists on accompanying the ranger on
all patrols, lying contentedly in the bot-
tom of the boat during water journeys.

Where fear is banished, trust and
friendship reign.

 

 




 

 

 

Page 52

METHUEN

W. W. Haswell, Prosecuting Ofﬁcer

1. CASES

Complaints
gated)

2. ANIMALS INSPECTED

On investigations only ......
3. ANIMAL RELIEF WORK

Ambulance trips for lost, stray
or unwanted small animals
Small animals (returned to
owners) ...............
(placed in homes) .......
(humanely put to sleep)
Average number of horses
cared for (per month)
Horses (taken from work)
(humanely put to sleep)
Mileage

received (investi-

oooooooooooooooooo

PITTSFIELD

Number

64

1,828

1,260
59
100
3,258
12

30
6,323

T. King Haswell, Prosecuting Ofﬁcer

1 . CASES

Complaints
gated) ................
2. ANIMALS INSPECTED
On investigations only ......
3. ANIMAL RELIEF WORK
Ambulance trips for lost, stray
or unwanted small animals
Small animals (returned to
owners) ...............
(placed in homes) .......
(humanely put to sleep)
Horses (taken from work)
(humanely put to sleep)

received (investi-

4. Prosecutions. . 4 Convictions. .

Mileage

oooooooooooooooooo

SPRINGFIELD

Number

112

5,810

1,737

18
177
3,083
2

11

4
17,588

(OFFICER)

Fred F. Hall, Prosecuting Ofﬁcer

1. CASES

Complaints
gated) .................

2. ANIMALS INSPECTED

On investigations only ......
At Stockyards and abattoirs . .
Auctions

"Total ..................
3. ANIMAL RELIEF WORK

Ambulance trips for lost, stray
or unwanted small animals

Small animals (returned to
owners) ...............
(placed in homes) .......
(humanely put to sleep)

Horses (taken from work)
(humanely put to sleep)

received (investi-

ooooooooooooooooo

4. Prosecutions. . 10 Convictions. .
Mileage

oooooooooooooooooo

SPRINGFIELD

1. ANIMAL RELIEF WORK

Ambulance trips for lost, stray
or unwanted small animals

Small animals (returned to
owners) ...............
(placed in homes) .......
(humanely put to sleep)

Mileage

aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa

Number

457

1 0,2 1 7
15,840

430
26,487

(HOSPITAL)

816

476
1,664
7,253

9,344

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

A T T L E B O R 0
Charles E. Brown, Prosecuting Ofﬁcer

1. CASES Number
Complaints received (investi-
gated) ................. 208
2. ANIMALS INSPECTED
On investigations only ....... 2,556
Abattoirs and stockyards . . . . 99
Auctions ................. 27
Total .................. 2,682

3. ANIMAL RELIEF WORK

Ambulance trips for lost, stray

or unwanted animals ..... 565
Small animals (returned to
owners) ............... 29
(placed in homes) ....... 42
(humanely put to sleep) 1,300

Horses (taken from work) . . . 23

(humanely put to sleep) 23
4. Prosecutions. . 18 Convictions. . 17
Mileage .................. 29,341

H Y A N N I S
Harold C. Andrews, Prosecuting Ofﬁcer

1. CASES Number
Complaints received (investi-
gated)................. 32
2. ANIMALS INSPECTED
On investigations only ...... 1,260

3. ANIMAL RELIEF WORK

Ambulance trips for lost, stray

or unwanted small animals 612
Small animals (returned to
owners) ............... 3
(placed in homes) ....... 2
(humanely put to sleep) 958
Horses (taken from work) . . . 1
(humanely put to sleep) . . 1
Mileage .................. 2 1 ,898

W E N H A M
Fred T. Vickers, Prosecuting Ofﬁcer

1. CASES Number
Complaints received (investi-
gated) ................. 170
2. ANIMALS INSPECTED
On investigations only ...... 7,388
Auctions ................. 764
Total .................. 8,152

3. ANIMAL RELIEF WORK

Ambulance trips for lost, stray

or unwanted small animals 289
Small animals (returned to
owners) ............... 3
(placed in homes) ....... 15
(humanely put to sleep) 692

Horses (taken from work) . . 33

(put to sleep) .......... 16
4. Prosecutions. . 5 Convictions. . 5
Mileage .................. 1 5, 1 l 9
W O R C E S T E R
Harry C. Smith, Prosecuting Ofﬁcer ‘
1. CASES Number
Complaints received (investi-
gated) ................. 161
2. ANIMALS INSPECTED
On investigations only ...... 6,567
Abattoirs and stockyards and
railroad yards ........... 4,314
Auctions ................. 1,017
Total .................. 11,898

M arch 1941;
WORCESTER (Cont’d)
3. ANIMAL RELIEF WORK

Small animals (placed in
homes) ................ 12
(returned to owners) ..... 2
(humanely put to sleep) . . 23
Horses (taken from work) . . 5
(humanely put to sleep) . . l
4. Prosecutions. . 15 Convictions. . 12
Mileage .................. 1 4,3 1 5

HOLYOKE

This Branch continues its work, as in the
past, arranging with a leading veterinarian
in Holyoke to call for and care for sick, in-
jured and unwanted animals of that city.
There were 1,077 animals sent for by the
Springﬁeld Hospital ambulance and brought
back either to be put to sleep or, where pos-
sible, homes found for them.

Ofﬁcers of the Holyoke Branch are: Aaron
M. Bagg, President; Brooks White, Treasurer.

CHIEF OF‘F‘ICER’S REPORT

Individual tabulations of the work of
the Society’s Humane Ofﬁcers during the
past year may be noted above. From
these statistical reports it will be seen
that all sections of the Commonwealth are
receiving the watchful care of our full-
time representatives. In addition to this
regular staff the Society is able to call
upon a force of local agents whose serv-
ices can be used to advantage, especially
in rural sections. Besides these methods,
our agents have endeavored to use strict
economy in the use of gasoline, in making
their inspections and investigations.

Citations of a few offenses with re-
sultant court action are of rare occur-
rence.

For underfeeding a horse, ﬁne $100;
selling an unﬁt horse, ﬁne $25; failure
to care for injured horse, ﬁne $100; non—
sheltering cows, ﬁne $50; non—sheltering
cows and horses, three months’ sentence.
For injuring dog (hit and run), ﬁne $25;
cruelly killing hogs, ﬁne $100; under-
feeding poultry, several ﬁnes, $5 to $15.

A perusal of the foregoing statistical
report shows that prosecutions for cruelty
have been made as few as possible, and
only resorted to in the more ﬂagrant
cases, and when milder procedure was
deemed inadequate. This department has
held to the conviction that the measure of
its work is best determined by its educa—
tional, advisory and preventive results,
rather than by the actual number of
prosecutions and convictions.

Women’s Auxiliaries

As to our Women’s Auxiliaries, we
must say substantially what we said last
year, at which time we expressed our
grateful and hearty appreciation of what
these splendid groups of women have
been doing for our work.

The Springﬁeld Auxiliary, associated
with our Springﬁeld Hospital, has con-
tinued to raise funds for the Hospital,
and much has been accomplished in ac-

 




#_.___ Alf—K

 

 

 

September 191,4

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Page 169

 

Animal That Was a Goddess

’EOPLE have often remarked the dig-

nity and independence of the cat.
Whence cometh it? Well, the cat comes
by it most naturally, and it’s a great
wonder she is not more snooty than she
is. The high position of Goddess—no less
—that was the unique social position of
the cat of yore—and halcyon were those
days of :Cathood, for better ofﬁces were
never enjoyed by any animal before or
since.

Sacriﬁces of one sort or another were
offered to her. Enthroned, even deiﬁed
as a goddess, she was sacred to Isis, and
the emblem of the sun. All of this, of
course, was in ancient Egypt several
thousand years ago, for it was the early
Egyptians who were the greatest cat
lovers of all.

In those ancient times it may be well
remarked, to use a modern expression,
‘..‘cats sure had Priorities,”—-»but, after
all, no more priority than they have in
many an out-and-out cat—fancier’s home
today. Never did a whole nation, how-
ever, sum up so much animal admiration

By C. M. LITTLEJOHN

and concentrate it upon the cat—whose
many charms and ﬁne qualities were not
only appreciated 'but forced to be realized
and respected. In those times to kill a
cat was punishable by death.

At a very early date thereafter the cat
was introduced into sunny Italy,——even
before the Romans, and the days of Cata-
combs. Upon a long—forgotten tomb
there has been found an Egyptian cat
holding a mouse in its jaws. Romans re-
garded the cat, moreover, as a symbol of
Freedom, for they, too, were a freedom—
loving people,—and their goddess of
Liberty was depicted with a cat at her
feet.

Cat fanciers may have their innate love
and longing for pussy conﬁrmed by the
manner in which Egyptians went “all
out” after the furry friends who were
the long-distance ancestors of genera-
tions of felines of today. Ancient fol-
lowers of Isis were most spectacular and

demonstrative in their enrichment of the

life of the cat and, of course, their own
happy times by the process.

:13

Animal Symbolism . . . . .

UR ancestors were strong believers

in the mysterious healing powers of

animals. The belief, passed from gen—

eration to generation, ere long became

accepted as a matter of fact. Repre-

sentations of animals soon became sym—
bolic of the healing art.

The snake is perhaps the animal closely
associated with medicine. It appears that
at all times and among all peOples, it was
believed the snake had a close connection
with the mystery of life and death. Be-
cause of its legendary wisdom and power,
the serpent has never ceased to symbolize
healing. It became associated with the
symbol of Aesculapius, the mythical God
of Medicine. In our times, the serpent
has found ofﬁcial recognition in its use
in the Caduceus which is the popular
symbol of the medical profession.

The signs of the Zodiac—the Ram,
Bull, Crab, Lion, Scorpion, Goat and
Fishes—all were given importance in

 

 

The Caduceus. medical emblem showing
two entwined snakes.

medical symbolism. The months were
supposed by Greek and Roman doctors
to have good or bad effect on health and
the animal signs of the Zodiac in that

Many characteristics of cats handed
down to this very day reﬂect the glory
that was once hers, when votive offerings
were made as tribute of a whole people’s
great respect and love for her. But has
she fallen from grace, or her previous en-
thronement, her lap of luxury, her royal
purple cushion on which she was once
enshrined among the Egyptians?

No! On evil days, of course, has the
poor alley cat fallen, or those suddenly
abandoned these war times, but in count-
less homes of America as well as in hun-
dreds of other lands the cat is still a
much preferred pet of the household, a
veritable queen or favorite companion
of childhood and of adults, and is still
wont to recline upon a purple cushion or
the deep upholstery of an occasional chair
that is a reasonable facsimile thereof,
where she is perhaps a thousand times
more comfortable than in those primitive
chairs of the Egyptian people who wor-
shipped her with no greater affection
than many ordinary mortals of today who
pay her daily tribute.

By ALAN A. BROWN

way became prominent in the question
of healing.

In the legends of all races at all periods
of history is found the Phoenix, a sacred
bird with red and gold plumage and some-
what like an eagle in size and form. The
Phoenix was considered the emblem of
life’s renewal. There are legends in re—
gard to the Unicorn. Its horn was sup-
posed to be a healthful inﬂuence and a
protection against poisoning. The horn,
often mounted in gold, was brought to
banquet tables to touch dishes and vessels
of wine as a test of their purity.

The Charadrius is supposed to have
been a dove-like bird which, like so many
other fabulous creatures associated with
the practice of healing, was reputed to
have the power of immediately foretelling
whether a patient would recover or not.
If the bird looked away from the patient
it signiﬁed death; if it turned toward
the patient, it prophesied recoverY~

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

Page 72

 

 

 

Home Front Outrage

N a recent issue of Life, the editors
called attention, most graphically, to
the outrageous brutality practiced by cer-
tain citizens of Holmes County, Ohio, in
“so-called” fox hunting. Our Society is
deeply indebted to Life for its forthright
portrayal. The following letter of appro-
bation was sent to the editor by our
President, Dr. Francis H. Rowley:

The Humane Societies of this
country owe LIFE a real debt for
its publishing of the outrageous
cruelties involved in the fox-hunting
reported by LIFE in the current
issue. It seems incredible that .111
any state in this Union, public. opin-
ion would have allowed anything of
that sort to happen.

It is devoutly to be hoped that
LI‘F‘E’S story of this dis-graceful af-
fair, which apparently has been
going on for some time, will put an
end to any such atrocity for the
future.

Letters were also sent to Ohio’s Gov-
ernor, John W. Bricker, and to three of
the leading animal protection societies
in that state, urging that everything pos-

sible be done to eliminate such practices.

Letters have been received, not only
from citizens of Massachusetts, but from
various parts of the country, registering
disapproval. We quote excerpts from
some of these letters as an indication of
public opinion.

Can’t some organization step in
and stop such a disgraceful and
despicable situation from continu-
ing? I understand those brave, virile
people are planning bigger hunts
next year. Even women and chil-
dren seem to be enjoying the orgy.

It was revolting to see an 11-year-
old boy ﬁnally beating the poor
animal to death amid the cheers of
the crowd. What kind of man will
develop from such encouragement?

It is utterly disgusting to see men,
women and children engaged in
such cowardly pastimes. What a
training these children are getting
in cruelty.

It all savors so of inhuman cruelty
and portends such awful possibili-
ties for the future of the citizens in
that section of our country.

The trend of all the letters received
has been the same—a thorough hatred
of the cruelty practiced on a helpless
animal and anxiety lest American citi-
zens deve10p the brutal tendencies which
characterize our present enemies at war.

We heartily agree with these views and
pledge ourselves to do everything possible
to make certain that there will be no
repetition of this brutal exhibition.

EDITORIALS

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

April 1 9.41;

 

 

 

Easter Pets

T IS something of a paradox that the
Easter season—that time of the year
when all Christianity should naturally be
turning to thoughts of kindness and com-
passion—should be chosen especially by
commercial interests for the sale of tiny
members of the animal kingdom as pets
for children. Thus, we have in a season
set aside for rejoicing in the Christian
world, a time when thoughtless parents
and tradesmen join in a business often
resulting in torture and death.

Each year we ask dealers not to sell
baby chicks, ducklings or bunnies as pets;
each year we urge parents to refrain
from buying these living creatures for
their children to fondle and then discard.
It is all too easy to imagine the suffering
of these tiny babies, handled by inexperi-
enced clerks in retail stores. They are
subjected to food and temperatures ill-
suited to their needs and when purchased
as pets, they invariably fall into the
hands of persons who do not know how to
handle or care for them.

Parents! If you are thinking of your
children’s ultimate good, take the money
you would spend for chicks or bunnies
and buy defense stamps. You will be
helping your government and at the same
time establishing a nest egg for the
children.

Our Government has asked that a
greater number of fowl be raised for the
production of eggs and meat. Stores
which have never before handled chicks
are dealing in them now, but it should be
pointed out to these establishments that
the chicks should not be sold in lots of
less than twelve unless good evidence is
given that the purchase is for legitimate
purposes—the raising of poultry. The
use of chicks for other than the produc-
tion of food would militate against our
war effort and conservation of necessary
food.

So for both humanitarian and con-
servation reasons we earnestly ask that
the trafﬁc in Easter toys be ended.

43

It is an established fact that the train-
ing of the intellect alone is not sufﬁcient.
Nothing in this world can be truer than
that the training of the head, without
the training of the heart, simply in-
creases one’s power for evil.

RALPH WALDO TRINE

Victory Garden Problems

T IS not too early in the year for
Americans to start planning for their
spring gardening ventures. The over-
whelming success last year has proved
beyond a doubt that these gardens helped
tremendously in the conservation of food
and the difﬁcult task of feeding families
under our present rationing system.

Gardeners grumble, and perhaps
rightly so, at the depredations of ani-
mals. It is annoying, to say the least, to
ﬁnd that dogs have run through the beds,
trampling down the tiny shoots or that
rabbits have invaded the garden to nibble
at the tender greens.

This year, we ask that gardeners be
prepared for such invaders. There is no
necessity for shooting, trapping or cruel
treatment of these trespassers. After
all, they are only following their natural
instincts. We especially ask that poison-
ing be not attempted. Such a campaign
usually serves only in bringing about the
death of neighborhood pets and does not
seem to affect the real m-arauders.

Plan now to enclose your garden by a
simple fence of chicken wire or some
other suitable material. This will solve
your problem and will not cause suffering
to helpless animals.

 

 

PHOTO CONTEST

In a search for "story-telling pic-
tures." we are announcing our annual
photographic contest to end June 30.
I944.

Cash prizes amounting to $95 and
ten additional prizes of subscriptions
to OUR DUMB ANIMALS are of-
tered for clear' outstanding photo-
graphs ot wild or domestic animals
and birds.

The contest is open to all. either
professional or amateur. but entries
will be accepted only from those who
have taken the photographs.

PRIZES
First Prize ......... $25.00
Second Prize . l5.00
Third Prize ........ 5.00

Ten $3.00 prizes
Ten $2.00 prizes
Write to Contest EditorI I80 Long-
wood Ave.I Boston l5I Mass.. for
further details.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




October 1941;

Retired Workers’ Fund

E are receiving gifts to the Ameri-

can Humane Education Society as a
trust fund, the interest to be used for the
beneﬁt of ﬁeld missionaries and others
who have spent their lives in promoting
humane education. Already several cases
have come to our attention and are being
relieved in this way. We will welcome
your contribution to this fund.

Please make checks payable to Albert
A. Pollard, Treasurer, American Humane
Education Society, 180 Longwood Ave-
nue, Boston, and specify that the amount
contributed is for the Humane Educa-
tion Trust Fund.

A

Liberal Annuity Rates
ADVANTAGES

No coupons to clip, no papers to sign and
mail. You simply receive your checks at
stated intervals—that’s all there is to it.

Annuity agreements are frequently used
to provide for one’s or another’s future
years.

It is no experiment. There is no anxiety.
No fluctuations in rate of income. No
waste of your estate by a will contest.

a: are a: are

A pamphlet giving necessary information
gladly sent upon request.

The Massachusetts S. P. C. A., or the
American Humane Education Society, 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston 15.

The management of our invested funds is
a guarantee of the security of these Life
Annuities.

RATES OF MEMBERSHIP IN
THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
OR THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.
Active Life $100 00 Active Annual $10 00
Associate Life 50 00 Associate Annual 5 00
Sustaining Life 20 00 Annual 1 00
Children’s $0 75
Checks and other payments may be sent to ALBERT

A. POLLARD, Treasurer, 180 Longwood Avenue,
Boston 15.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

HOSPITAL REPORT FOR AUGUST
At 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston 15

Cases entered in Hospital ..... 1,012
Cases entered in Dispensary . . . . 2,392
Operations .................. 276

At Springﬁeld Branch, 53 Bliss Street

Cases entered in Hospital ...... 257

Cases entered in Dispensary . . . 948

Operations ................. ' . 135
Totals

Hospital cases since opening

Mar. 1, 1915 .............. 236,754
Dispensary cases ............. 591,337
Total ............ 828,091

AUGUST REPORT OF THE OFFICERS
OF THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.,
WITH HEADQUARTERS AT BOSTON,
METHUEN, SPRINGFIELD, PITTSFIELD,

ATTLEBORO, WENHAM, HYANNIS,
WORCESTER, FITCHBURG, NORTH-
AMPTON, HAVERHILL, HOLYOKE,

ATHOL, BRO‘CKTON AND NEW BED-
FORD, COVERING THE ENTIRE STATE.

Miles traveled by humane ofﬁcers 16,312
Cases investigated ............ 295
Animals examined ............ 4,322
Animals placed in homes ........ 171
Lost animals restored to owners . . .129
Number of prosecutions ........ 4
Number of convictions ......... 4
Horses taken from work ........ 13
Horses humanely put to sleep . . . 38
Small animals humanely put to
sleep ...................... 3,336
Horse auctions attended ........ 10
Stockyards and Abattoirs
Animals inspected ............. 47,634
Cattle, swine and sheep humanely
put to sleep ................ 10

 

 

tion with any other similar Society.

FORM OF

property. describe the property).

given gladly.

 

 

TO OUR FRIENDS

In making your will. kindly bear in mind that the corporate title ot our Society is "The Massachu-
setts Society tor the Prevention ot Cruelty to Animals"; that it is the second incorporated (March.
l868) Society tor the Prevention ot Cruelty to Animals in the country. and that it has no connec-

Any bequest especially intended tor the benetit ot the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital. should.
nevertheless. be made to the Massachusetts Society tor the Prevention ot Cruelty to Animals "tor
the use ot the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital." as the Hospital is not incorporated but is the
property ot that Society and is conducted by it.

I give to The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (or to the
American Humane Education Society). the sum ot ................ dollars (or. it other

The Society's address is l80 Longwood Avenue. Boston l5. Mass. lntormation and advice will be

REQUEST

 

 

 

 

Page 193

Veterinary Column

1. Question: My long-haired cat has
developed hard lumps in his fur all over
the body. What is the cause of this, and
what can I do to relieve the condition?

Answer: Long-haired cats require
daily grooming with brush and comb to
keep the fur in good condition and free
from mats. Once these lumps of hair
have formed, it is difficult to get rid of
them and still preserve the coat. In most

cases they have to be cut or clipped from

the animal. If they are extensive, this is
a laborious and painful job, and is most
easily handled with the cat under anes-
thesia. To accomplish this, it would be
necessary to obtain the aid of your vet-
erinarian. Following removal of the mats,
adequate grooming of the coat will pre-
vent their reappearance.

2. Question: Ho-w often is it neces—
sary to worm a dog?

Answer: Worm medicine should not be
administered unless there. is evidence
that the dog is actually infested with
these parasites. The treatment is neces-
sarily harsh and not recommended unless
worms are seen or their presence deter-
mined by an examination by your
veterinarian.

3. Question: I should like to buy my
puppy a ball to amuse him, but friends
have advised against it. Are there any
objections to such a toy?

Answer: Dogs can derive pleasure from
a ball and often enjoy retrieving it for
the owner. However, the ball should be
large enough so that there is no possi-
bility that the dog may get it stuck in his
throat or swallow it. Frequently, we hear
of diﬂiculties arising, a ball or other small
object may become lodged in the throat,
stomach, or intestines. The consequences
may be serious, interfering with the tak-
ing and digesting of food by the dog.
If not removed, fatal results may ensue.

R. M. 13., Veterinary Dept.
Angell Animal Hospital

a

Any Old Papers?

r][‘HE Angell Memorial Animal Hospital
is once again in urgent need of old
newspapers and will appreciate small or
large gifts of discarded papers.

These are placed in the cages to aid
in rendering the utmost care and com-
fort to sick and injured pets during their
period of hospitalization.

We are conﬁdent that we can once
again count on our friends to respond
to this appeal.

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

M arch 1941;

'The
Door

Tender

T WAS a cold, wintry night, when I
1 went with my husband for the ﬁrst

time, while he made a business call at
a large farm homestead, south of our city.
We entered by a long driveway which
brought us to the kitchen door. Though
it was bitter cold outside and the bright
lights in the kitchen and dining room
were temptingly inviting, I chose to re-
main in the car while he made his call,
which was to be a short one.

The entrance to the kitchen was
through a storm house, which was lighted
only by the windows of the inside rooms,
so it was somewhat dim. The door to
this storm house was a screen door so I
could see through into the cheery living
rooms beyond.

My husband seemed to be taking an
unusually long time for a short call and

A Bird of Culture

OST birds are excellent build-
ers, but the Satin Bower Bird is
also an artist. He has his home
in Australia and the wonderful sheen of
his dark-blue plumage accounts for his
name. About the size of a pigeon he has a
most alert, intelligent air, his little wife
being garbed more soberly in shades of
soft green. Like the rest of the Bower

if“ _ ,, >_‘~. x- W“. +

   
   

Satin Bower Bird

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

I was about to blow the horn to call his
attention to this fact, when I noticed a

strange thing. A young cat, a little
larger than a kitten, approached the door,
meowed once or twice and was admitted
by what appeared to be an unseen hand.
I stretched my neck to see who had ad-
mitted the cat, but not a person could I
see. When a second and then a third

&

family he not only makes a nest, but he
builds a playhall or arbor on the ground.

The bower is usually set among low
shrubs, the walls from 12 to 18 inches
high, arching gracefully over the top. He
makes a small, stout platform of sticks
and here during spring courting day-s he
performs for the beneﬁt of his lady
friends.

Most Bower Birds go in for bright but-
tons, bits of bone, etc., but the Satin is a
bit exclusive and he prefers blue ﬂowers.
If you have a garden nearby do not grow
blue blossoms unless you want to help
the Bower Bird with his decorations, for
he will nip off every head. He will carry
off anything else that happens to be blue,
including laundry bluing bags.

The Satin Bower Bird is the only
member of the family who paints his
bower. He covers the inside twigs with
a mixture of charcoal and his own saliva,
using a small wad of soft bark as a brush
which he holds in his nimble beak. With
head on one side and critical eye he acts
exactly like a human decorator intent on
his job and enjoying it.

His courting dance is a quaint, rather
stiff little performance, rather like the

Page 4’7
By GLADYS LOUISE FLINT

HERE IS ANOTHER FELINE DOOR TENDER. THIS

CAT OPERATES FROM THE OUTSIDE DURING

WARM WEATHER BY PUTTING HER CLAWS

INTO THE SCREEN AND PULLING THE DOOR
OPEN.

cat, was admitted in the same manner,
my curiosity was great, and I was de-
termined that if another cat approached
that door, I was going to know how it
got in. I hadn’t long to wait, for this
homestead had many cats and it was a
pretty cold night for even the boldest cat
to wander far from the home ﬁres. Soon
a pure white cat neared the door and
gave the signaling meow. Again the
door opened and this time I dis-covered a
large mother cat, inside the door, holding
it open with her head and one front leg.
It was some time before my husband
ﬁnished his call, but I didn’t mind, for
I was much too interested in watching
that mother cat, open and admit to the.
warmth within, nearly a dozen cats of
various sizes and kinds.

0 By WINIFRED HEATH

minuet. As he takes those mincing little
steps around the stage and the rest of his
runway he keeps an eye on any lady who
may be looking on.

Birds are perhaps the best behaved and
the most beautiful of all God’s smaller
feathered folk and the Satin Bower is
one of the brightest and loveliest of them
all.

 

A Typical Bower

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 171;

 

THIRTEEN PROVES LUCKY NUMBER FOR ALL AILING ANIMALS
Feminine pulchrii‘ude prevails at Jrhe Angell Memorial Animal Hospital +hese days. be-
cause. since the ou’rbreak of war. if has become necessary +o employ women nurses
to replace men who have entered Jthe armed forces. Esiablishing a precedent during
its existence of nearly +hir+y years. the Hospi’ral hired i’rs firsl' woman nurse soon
after Pearl Harbor. and since then has been cons’ran’rly increasing the female nursing
staff. Today. H is proud of +he fine record +hes'e young women have achieved in Jrhe
splendid and efficien’r service +hey have rendered to sick and injured animals brought
+o if for care and treatment. Shown in the picture wi’rh "Kerry." lrish SeHer. one of
their many fortunate paiien’rs. are. back row. left +o right: Miriam Puffer. Eleanor L.
Mof-Fa’r. Elizabe’rh A. For+une. Marie T. Keating and Mary E. Hughes; fromL row: Jennie
Koslowski. Inez L. Holmes. Ka’rhleen Driscoll. Alice Norton. Ann Hefler. Adele‘Fread.
Ruth 5. Bent. Mary F. Wood.
@

Master ’Phones Dog

VERIFIED story from Lafayette,

Indiana, tells of two women who
complained to Police Sgt. Cecil Baker
that a dog was in their car and wouldn’t
get out. Baker removed the dog, found
a tag with the name of Alvin Fay, whom
Baker then telephoned.

“Put the dog on the ’phone,” Fay said.

The Sergeant was dubious, but obeyed.

“What are you doing up there, Pat,”
Fay admonished? “Get right on home.”

Amazing as it may seem, the dog then
left the police station and proceeded
directly home.

In checking the story with Lafayette’s
Chief of Police, William F. Taylor, it
was learned that the story was true in
every detail. Furthermore, the dog, a
pointer, has a number of unusual accom—
plishments which his master exhibits to
anybody who is interested. For instance,
the animal will carry an order to the
butcher shop for meat and return carry-
ing the package in his mouth.

Another accomplishment for which the
dog has been trained is in carrying pack-
ages between several places of business.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

.1

September 1944

Kindness Rewarded

THE Massachusetts Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals
recently honored Henry M. McGough,
Boston Elevated motorman, by present-
ing him with a beautiful bronze humane
medal for his heroic deed in saving the
life of a cat that was trapped near the
third rail of a pit in Sullivan Square
Station, Charlestown.

Mr. McGough, who has been an “El”
employee since 1917, was slowly pulling
his train into the Sullivan Square Sta-
tion, when he suddenly noticed a moving
object in the pit below. He immediately
stopped the train, hurried out of his cab
and got down on his knees to investigate.
To his amazement he discovered a large,
black and white cat struggling to get to
the surface. The fearless motorman, at
the risk of his own life, reached over
the third rail in an effort to rescue the
cat, and after several unsuccessful at-
tempts, ﬁnally brought it to safety, while
scores of onlooking passengers marveled
at his courage and daring in retrieving
the bewildered animal from its dangerous
plight. The feline, none the worse for its
harrowing experience, was passed over
to the starter on the platform who
promptly directed that it be returned to
its owner.

Mr. William A. Swallow, Secretary of
the Society, who made the award, highly
praised Mr. McGough for his outstanding
heroism in promoting kindness to ani-
mals, whereupon the motorman modestly
declared that the act was performed only
because of his great love for all animal
life.

 

Secretary William A. Swallow awards the Socie’ry's medal +0 Motorman McGough.

 




April 191,4

 

JOHN R. MACOMBER

Trustee Honored

RIENDS and business associates
gathered at the Union Club, Boston,
on March 9, to pay honor to one of our
Trustees, John R. Macomber, Chairman
of the Board, First Boston Corporation.
Mr. Macomber started his business career
ﬁfty years ago and this golden anniver—
sary was celebrated by the presentation
of a loving cup, suitably inscribed with
brief references to his activities in busi-
ness, civic and sporting ﬁelds. In addi-
tion, the cup bore the names of all those
attending the dinner.

Representing our Society were Dr.
Francis H. Rowley and Executive Vice-
President Eric H. Hansen. On this occa—
sion, Dr. Rowley, with his inimitable
manner and apt phrasing, presented to
Mr. Macomber a plaque, inscribed as fol-
lows:

JOHN R. MACOMBER

In grateful recognition of his 26 years
of service as Chairman of the Board of
Trustees of the Society’s Permanent
Funds

1944

:13

Society Gives Service
EOPLE too often think of our Society
as a prosecuting agency and picture
our ofﬁcers as grim ogres who delight in
making arrests. As a matter of fact,
prosecution is our last recourse and many
times during a month we are called upon

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

lack of attention. Ofﬁcers Herman N.
Dean and J. Robert Smith were imme-
diately dispatched to the scene and in-
vestigation showed that the owner of
the stock had been taken sick and was in
the Tewksbury Hospital. Two people, in
the meantime, had agreed to care for the
animals, but had failed.

The ﬁrst action taken by our ofﬁcers
was the feeding and watering of the
stock and milking the cow. Only after
the animals were properly cared for did
they interview the owner, whom they
found being prepared for a transfer to
the Pondville State Hospital.

.As it seemed evident that the owner
would be absent for some time, our of-
ﬁcers obtained written permission from
him to dispose of the stock. They then
called a dealer in Middleton, who came
with a truck, removing a cow, a heifer,
a bull calf, three goats, one kid, a hog,
104 fowl and 300 pounds of grain. These
items he sold on commission and made a
return to the owner.

Our officers, recognizing that here was
a case for public service and animal pro-
tection, handled the affair with humane-
ness and dispatch, earning the gratitude
and respect of all concerned.

 

Page ’75

Cockﬁght Raided

NE of the most spectacular cases
within the past few months was re-
ported by our County Prosecuting Ofﬁcer
in Worcester, Harry C. Smith. Accom-
panied by two state police ofﬁcers and
Deputy Sheriff Dumas, of Sturbridge,
Mr. Smith raided the site of a cockﬁght.
The ofﬁcers found about 60 persons
watching the ﬁght which was taking
place in the cellar of a farm house near
Sturbridge.

A few of the patrons escaped through
a cellar window, but the ofﬁcers arrested
52 onlookers and seized 29 ﬁghting cocks
and a large amount of gear. The prison-
ers were transported to the Southbridge
Police Station where they put up bail and
were released for later trial.

The judge ordered the birds killed in
accordance with the law and this was
done by Mr. Smith in the presence of ﬁve
witnesses.

At the subsequent hearing, the owner
of the cocks was ﬁned $25 and others paid
ﬁnes of $5 each when they pleaded guilty
of attending the ﬁght.

 

 

 

FELINE MASCOTS EXPERIENCE HAPPY REUNION

When it recently became necessary to hospitalize ”Whitey." feline mascot of the U. S.

FRIGATE "CONSTITUTION." at the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital. her steadfast

companion. "Butch." rebelled at the idea of being separated from his loyal pal. But

now "Whitey'l is back to normal once moreI and is shown ready to leave the Hospital.

accompanied by Seaman First Class Thomas Creeley (left). holding "Butch." and Sea-
' man First Class George Boardm‘an with "Whitey."

to investigate cases requiring great tact
and executive ability in straightening
out the situation.

A case in point occurred recently when
a call was received from the Chief of
Police, at Wilmington, Massachusetts,
who reported that stock belonging to a
resident of that town was suffering from

 




 

 




 

 

From the

PRESIDENT’S DESK

 

 

T would be interesting to know how

many Sunday schools in this land of
ours ever devote any time to teaching
the relation we sustain to the animal
world. Of course, kindness and justice
are part of the Christian faith, but
cruelty. is quite as much a sin to be
guarded against as lying, stealing, back—
biting, and other hateful things we warn
the young to shun.

@

OVE, joy, peace, long-suffering, gen—
tleness, goodness, faith, meekness,
temperance, St. Paul’s ‘fruits of the
spirit,’ ” Archdeacon Hindley, of Mel—
bourne, Australia, once said, “are a more
accurate description of a good dog than
of a so-called good Christian as the world
knows him.” @

OUTH is something in the soul
which has no more to do with the
color of the hair than the vein of gold in
a rock has to do with the grass a thou-
sand feet above it.
—Oliver Wendell Holmes

@

OW many people in the United
States, we wonder, think of humane
societies as educational forces of a very
high order in the community? Far more
important is this side of their work than
the mere enforcement of the law.

cﬁ

ARDINAL NEWMAN is quoted as

having said that the life of the ani-

mals is to us almost as mysterious as that
of the angels. (ﬂ

HAT a commentary on man’s con-

ception of God for centuries were
the altars red with the blood of animals
slain to appease Him!

:13

OW many of the humane people in

the United States calling them-

selves lovers of animals are supporting-
members of any humane society?

Some Tough Questions

NSCRIBED on the old Greek Delphic
Oracle many centuries before our era
were the words, “Know Thyself.” They
have been repeated over and over again
through the years that have followed.
Do we know ourselves? Can We know
ourselves? I wonder. Am I what I
think I am? Am I what those who know
me best think I am? Can we deceive
ourselves, think better of ourselves than
we really are, think worse of ourselves
than we really are? Am I generous, am
I unselﬁsh, am I sincere in what I say
and do? Are there unsuspected forces
of passion and even cruelty of which I
am unconscious, deep down within me,
that some enraging event might set free?
Do I know myself? How many of us
can say, “Yes?”

@
Out of the Past

' ORE than two thousand years ago,

in the Fifth Book of Manu, a part

of the ancient Hindu literature, the fol-
lowing was written: '

“He who consents to the death of an
animal; he who kills it; he who dissects
it; he who buys it; he who sells it; he
who dresses it; he who serves it; and he
who makes it his food; these are eight
principals in the slaughter.

“He who injures animals that are not
injurious, from a Wish to give himself
pleasure, adds nothing to his own happi-
ness, living or dead.

“While he who gives no creature will-
ingly the pain of conﬁnement or death,
but seeks the good of all sentient beings,
enjoys bliss without end.”

4%

NE of the best things our readers

could do to advance the humane
cause would be to secure a new subscriber
or two to this magazine.

Don’t Ignore the Insect

ASCINATING as is Henri Fabre’s

study of the insect world, we seldom
think of what would happen to us all if
the insects of the earth, multiplying as
they do, all came ’to maturity. Huxley is
quoted as saying that one green ﬂy, in
ten generations, accidents apart, will
produce a mass of organic matter equiva-
lent to 500,000,000 human beings—that
is, equal to the Chinese Empire in sheer
mass of living matter. A single h0p-
louse will produce in one season nine
and a half quadrillions of young.

If nature, “careful of the type,” “care-
less of the single life,” only brings one
of ﬁfty seeds to bear, we may well be
grateful that out of billions of hop-lice,
aphids, midges, beetles, spiders and other
like creatures, only one in a multitude
reaches the reproducing age. All chil-
dren should be taught to protect the lady—
bird, or ladybug, as some call it—the
pretty little red—winged bug that destroys
millions of harmful insect eggs.

ti

T would be a source of great satisfac-
tion if we could always please all our
generous friends and contributors——-if we
could do all the things they think the
law permits us to do, and stop at once all
the cruelties that distress them. The
anonymous critics who never offer any-
thing but criticism cause us no anxiety.

HE characters of a people, their Vices
or their virtues, are absolutely de-
pendent upon the teachers charged with

the education of their youth.
@ ——Le’lbnitz

A Much-Regretted Error

FROM the last paragraph of the edi-
torial, “Do Not Lose Heart,” on the
President’s Page of the July issue, quo-
tation marks were unfortunately omitted
by the printers. The paragraph was from
Paul Elmer More’s remarkable book,
“Pages of an Oxford Diary.”

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 198

(The Thanh nf wrrrg nr

3111mm ﬁumant Ileana»

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
ERIC H. HANSEN, Executive Vice-President
WILLIAM A. SWALLOW, Secretary

PLEDGE

I will try to be kind to all living crea-
tures and try to protect them from cruel
usage.

The American Humane Education So-
ciety will send to every person Who forms
a Band of Mercy of thirty members, and
sends the name chosen for the Band and
the name and post-oﬂice address of the
president who has been duly elected, special
Band of Mercy literature and a gilt badge
for the president.

NEW BANDS OF MERCY

One hundred and thirteen Bands of
Mercy were organized during August, as
follows:

Virginia ...................... 7
Pennsylvania .............. 106

Total number of Bands of Mercy or-
ganized by Parent-American Society,
268,486.

SUMMARY OF FIELD WORK

Number of addresses made, 3’7
Number of persons in audiences, 3,953

4%

Birds with Shock Absorbers

PELICAN or a gannet will ﬂy along

some distance above the sea until
they sight a ﬁsh near the surface. Then
the bird will fold its wings and dive
straight down, beak ﬁrst, hitting the
water full speed. The comical pelican
will often bob up again tail ﬁrst. If the
gannet misses its ﬁsh on the ﬁrst plunge,
it is such an expert swimmer that it
pursues its prey under water until it
catches it.

A pelican will make such a plunge
from twenty or thirty feet above the
water and a gannet makes spectacular
dives from as much as sixty or a hundred
feet up. Both of them must hit the water
with terriﬁc force. Water can be pain-
fully hard and unyielding as a clumsy
diver soon learns if he lands ﬂat instead
of headﬁrst. It seems a wonder that the
birds don’t have the breath knocked com-
pletely out of them after such a plunge,
but it doesn’t seem to bother them. They
both ﬁsh for a living and that is their
regular way of getting their ﬁsh.

Naturalists have found that both peli-
cans and gannets have what might be
called shock absorbers. They have large
air sacs or cushions beneath the skin
on their breasts. These must do a lot to
ease the shock when the birds hit the
water in one of these powerful dives
and, so far as any one knows, that is why
Nature has equipped the birds with them.

-—John H. Spicer

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Grateful

The following story comes to us from
Mr. F. W. Fowler, President of the New
Hampshire Humane Society.

IT was moving day for a mother gray
squirrel that had a home nest, with
two baby squirrels but a few days old,
near Harvard Street, in Laconia, N. H.
The reason for the move was probably
the coming into the immediate vicinity
of a family having a squirrel-hunting
cat. But whatever the reason, it was
sufﬁcient to give the mother squirrel a
ﬁxed determination to move. '

A new home nest had ﬁrst been con-
structed in a treeon Pleasant Street,
not far from the junction of Harvard,
and it was necessary to carry the little
ones there. Taking one baby by its head
in her mouth, as squirrels carry their
young, the transfer was successfully
made, but when the transfer of the other
baby was attempted, a near tragedy re-
sulted.

Leaping along the sidewalk of Har-
vard Street with her little one, a cat gave
chase. Handicapped as she was, the
mother seemed doomed to be overtaken
as she started to cross to the other side of
the street. Suddenly a young woman
rushed to the rescue, momentarily dis-
tracting the attention of the cat and
allowing the squirrel to escape. In the
excitement, the squirrel lost her hold of
her baby and it lay helpless in the
traveled portion of the street.

It was then that the young woman
took the little squirrel to the edge of the
lawn of the Harvard Street schoolhouse
and stood guard over it. Not long after,
the mother squirrel returned, looking
for her lost baby and went to the point

 

October 1941;

Squirrel

in the street where she lost it. With
coaxing, the squirrel came to the place
where the little one had been taken and
the instant the mother saw it she sprang
forward, took it up and went in great
leaps toward the new home.

A little later as the rescuer sat on
the steps of a nearby residence, the
mother squirrel came back, went to the
place in the street where she had lost
her baby, to the place on the lawn where
she had found it, and then came up to
her benefactress. She skirted around
her for some time, all the while looking
up at her so earnestly that it seemed
plain that she was trying her best to have
her friend know how grateful she was.

@

Awakening
By IDA M. FORREST

In the fields the bees are humming,
Partridges have started strumming,
Pussy willows turning white,
Catkins nodding low at night.

Squirrels are hunting acorns lost
Leaving tracks in a late frost.
Early robin’s “cheer-up-dearie,”
And the phoebe’s call so cheery.

Sweet spring scents are in the air;
’Wakening signs are everywhere,
Tender buds come peeping through,
”Renewing life and hope for you.

Creatures, birds and flowers are glad
That earth in fresh, warm green is clad.
Nature raising songs of praise,

In many, humble, grateful ways.

AN EXAMPLE FOR ALL

A friend of our Society sets an example in wild-life care which al
good results. This benefactress relates that crows. blue iays. sparrows. tanagerS.
chickadees. robins. whippoorwills. thrushes and finches seem to live in
harmony and as a result of her feeding. she hasn't had a bug. or worm in her gardens
In addition to the birds. many types 0
The above illustrations show three baby skunks and two squirrels feasting gratefully on

all summer.

the bounty set out for them.

l might follow with
towhees.
perfect

f wild animals rely on her for food.

 

 

 

 

 




"Never mind wrapping it-

our Army needs the paper!’ ’

That’s the idea, Mrs. Jones.
That’s the spirit.

Folks all over the U. S. A. must join with their local
storekeepers in a real all-American all-out drive to con-
serve paper by using less of this essential war material.

Every single piece of paper and paperboard (card-
board, boxboard) you manage to do without
means just that much more ammunition

for our invasion forces.

AInmunition? Yes, and weapons and
food and precious medical supplies

and. blood plasma. For, as Major
General E. B. Gregory, Quarter-
master General of the Army, says:
“The packing and packaging of
Quartermaster Corps supplies for
shipment to men on the ﬁghting
fronts is fully as important as pro-
ducing the supplies themselves.” And
practically every one of the 700,000
different items convoyed to our boys is
wrapped for protection in paper or paper-
board or both!

No wonder the war need for paper grows
daily. No wonder current paper produc-
tion cannot meet this steadily mounting
demand unless you and every Other
man and woman join Mrs. jones in

axing [e55 paper.’ The simple directions

at bOttom of this page tell you just

how to do this—at the store, in your

ofﬁce and at home.

This advertisement, contriéated to t/ae war eﬂort by
am magazine, was prepared 5)) t/oe 1V ar Adz/er-
tz'Jz'Izg Cozmci/ 2'12 ennperatz'on wit/a the War Pro-
duction Boara’ and the Ofﬁce of War Information.

This and the other magazines, although
using only 5 per cent of the paper supply,
are saving 450 million pounds of paper this
year—to release it for vital war needs.

 

11:“; ) I‘ . 1/». .

AT THE STORE. Unless it’s absolutely necessary

 

 

for their protection, don’t ask to have things
wrapped. Never ask to have boxed or bottled
goods wrapped. Carry your own shopping bag
or market basket to help save the storekeeper’s
precious paper bags.

AT THE OFFICE. Help your company devise
methods to reduce the amount of paper, Sta-
tionery, etc., used in carrying on its business. If
you’re employed by a package goods manufac-
turer, help him ﬁgure out ways to save on vital
paperboard.

AT HOME. Make paper stretch! Use smaller
sheets of writing and wrapping paper; conserve
paper towels, facial tissues. Share the printed
word; give this magazine to a neighbor. Never
burn used paper; prepare it for your local com-
mittee on paper salvage.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 161;

' Hear Ye!

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Hear Ye!

By MARCIA AUDREY GARDEN

OURT trials for indicted animals
Q t are not so dated as Our emanci-

pated thoughts would deem them.
Although animal trials were much more
popular during the Middle Ages, they
have survived through the centuries to
recent times.

In European courts, hundreds of trials
were held for dumb {animals charged with
crimes such as suspicion of murder. The
proceedings were often of so vicious and
brutal a nature as to satisfy the most
sadistically-minded onlooker.

In this country, animals accused of
crimes were placed on trial for their lives
up until quite recently. At the present
time, however, it is considered just to
hold the owners responsible for their
animals’ misdeeds.

In 1768, at Nismes, a donkey was in-
dicted for an act of sacrilege, and made
to stand trial in court. The thirsty ani-
mal had taken a drink from a basin of
holy water in a church. Although the
donkey was defended by counsel, it was
termed guilty and sentenced to be hanged
on the gibbet.

At Winchester, Kentucky, in 1925, a
foxhound was brought to trial for the
crime of killing sheep. The dog was con—
victed by a jury and was subsequently
executed.

A dog charged with the murder of
sheep was tried in 1927, at the Circuit
Court of Frederick County, Virginia.
After what was considered a fair trial,
the dog was sentenced to death.

In 1932, the case of a German police
dog came up in the Richmond, Virginia,
court. It was given an impressive trial

&

Action Reveals Character

N the realm of wild life every counter-

part of humans can be found. By
their emotions and characteristics, ani-
mals (especially dogs) reveal themselves
as being the bully or the meek, the bad
or the good, the thief or the Samaritan.

A frolicking dog with wagging tail is
truly a picture of happiness. The cat
though is probably the most ﬁaunting
when angry. Its ruffed fur, vicious spits
and growls are not to be mistaken.

Birds and animals alike express bore-
dom by yawning. The rufﬁng out of
feathers and soft cooing sounds indicate
contentment among birds.

The seal is probably the only animal
that shows distress by crying tears.

Jealousy, fear, pride, joy, and all the
other traits supposably only found in
humans, can also be attributed to birds
and animals.

—George S. Lookabaugh

and conviction followed. The sentence was
life imprisonment in the Henrico County
jail.

The records at McGraw,’ New York,
show the trial of four dogs indicted for
biting a six—year—old girl. Lawyers de-
fended the dogs at a hearing witnessed
by over one hundred and ﬁfty people. The
dogs were convicted and sentenced to die.

Just a few years ago, a Spitz dog was
indicted in New York on the charge of
biting a woman. Its good behavior dur—
ing the trial won the sympathy of the
judge and it was spared the death
penalty. Instead, it was placed on proba-
tion for four years.

A six—month-old puppy was hailed into
court in Brockport, New York, accused
of being responsible for the drowning of
a boy of fourteen. When the State rested
its case, defense witnesses poured into
the courtroom demanding to be heard.
They offered evidence of the animal’s
good character, and established an alibi.
The lawyer on the case ﬁnally pleaded
mistaken identity and delivered a lengthy
harangue for mercy. The puppy’s life
was saved, but it was placed on two years’
probation.

Pigs, bears, donkeys,,cats, dogs, rats,
cows, bulls, monkeys, horses and other
animals have all appeared before the bar
of justice at some time. When convicted
of their offenses, punishment ranged
from the death penalty to ﬁnes.

Dumb beasts are still forced to stand
trial for their alleged criminal acts de-
spite eﬂ’orts to hold the owners respon-
sible. This is true, however, in but few
sections of the country.

September 1944

The Woodland Folk

By CHARLES K. BOLTON

The woodland folk pass merry lives
Except when thunder storms come by,
Or some soft—padded fox contrives
To bark and scare them with his cry.

The pussy toes and ferny ball

Stretch up to view the meadow’s hem;
Anemolnes and cowslips call

To roving bees to sup with them.

The bluets, bound in tufted plot,

Attract small wayward things in flight;
Yes, woodland folk enjoy their lot——

They like the day, they love the night.

&
Delivers the Goods

ADY,” an English setter, is appar-
ently one of the smartest dogs of
today. Her owner, Floyd Russell, of
Tecumseh, Michigan, and one of the
neighbors tell a story concerning the ani—
mal that appears almost fantastic. After
checking the incident they related, how-
ever, it appears authentic.

Some time ago, so the tale goes, Lady
raised a litter of ﬁve baby setters. Rus—
sell sold three, and had been paid for the
fourth by the aforementioned neighbor
who lived two blocks down the street.
But when Russell went in search of the
fourth puppy, he could ﬁnd it nowhere.
Lady, too, had disappeared, but not for
long.

Soon after Lady’s returnahome, her
owner received a call from the neighbor
who had paid the purchase price for the
missing dog. It was then that Russell
learned what had become of the “stray.”
Lady, it seems, through some manner
beyond the comprehension of human
mind, had learned about the impending
sale and had delivered the fourth dog in
person to its new owner.

——Randolph MacFarlan

 

Odd Facts
in
Rime

The funny duckbill platypus
Thinks he is out of luck;
One end looks like a beaver;

The other like a duck.

 

 

He Doesn’t Know What He Is!

His feet have bearclaws keen and sharp;

For with this mixture, odd and queer,

\

\ ..
\\\

\
l l |
\\
\\\

l
’/
l.

.t
\F

‘ \\\
\\

But he's a comic quiz;

He can’t tell what he is!

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

Aﬂ‘r

 

 

 

From the

PRESIDENT’S DESK

 

 

HAT famous Jonathan Swift, widely

known in the world of English litera-
ture, who died just two centuries ago,
once wrote, “I hate and detest that animal
called ‘man,’ although I dearly love John,
Peter and Thomas.” There are people
today who love animals. Their animals.
Who love children. Their children. But
your animals and mine? Your children
and mine? That’s another matter.

43

YOU search in vain in Shakespeare,
great genius though he was, for any
such appreciation of the horse as char-
acterizes the Homeric poems. He would
perhaps have been quite as well satisﬁed
with an automobile, if he had had one.

a

MONG the “Laws of Honor” which
every member of the Boy Scouts of
America must promise to obey is this—
“A Scout is kind. He is a friend to
animals. He will not kill nor hurt any
living creature needlessly, but will strive
to save and protect all harmless life.”

&

HATEVER comes from the brain
carries the hue of the place it came
from, and whatever comes from the heart
carries the heat and color of its birth-

place.
43

EW poets have shown so gentle and
tender a spirit toward the lowlier
forms of animal life as did Burns. The
mouse whose nest his plows-hare over-
turned, the wounded hare that crossed
his path, the song-bird shivering from
the winter’s blast, appealed to his great
human heart till their world of woe be-
came his own.
‘ a

E are not certain we quote it ex-
actly, but this is as we remember it:
Two men looked out through their
prison bars:
The one saw mud, and the other,
stars.
It makes a world of difference, on
whichever slide of prison bars you may
be, whether you look up or down.

Is It “Mercy” or “Kindness?”

DO these two words mean the same

thing? In our relation to the lowly
children of the animal world, is it mercy
or kindness they have a right to expect
from us? The answer must be not mercy
but kindness.

Mercy is what may be granted to one
who needs forgiveness for an offense or
who may seek from a court of justice a
reduction in the penalty imposed, but
when it comes to the bird of the air or
the beast of the ﬁeld—to a creature below
us in life’s realm—that creature, having,
as we know it, no moral sense, compelled
to act out its nature, having committed
no crime and with no sense of guilt, has a
right to expect from us, not mercy, but
kindness.

An act of mercy is a kindness, but
toward our animal friends, kindness is
not necessarily mercy. One of the most
noted utterances of the Old Testament,
deﬁning God’s requirement from man, is
that statement in the Prophet Micah,
“What doth the Lord require of thee, 0
man, but to do justly, love mercy and
walk humbly with thy God?”

James Moffat, one of the world’s most
noted Hebrew scholars, we ﬁnd, translates
it, “love kindness” instead of “love

mercy.”
a

EVERAL months ago we made the

statement that if a man is found
guilty of cruelty to a dog in England, he
may not own a dog in the future. We
ﬁnd now, however, that there is a condi-
tion under which such a man may be
permitted to own a dog. Following is the
law:

“A person who by Virtue of any such
order is so disqualiﬁed as aforesaid may
appeal against the order in the same man-
ner as against a conviction, and the court
may, if it thinks ﬁt, pending the appeal,
suspend the operation of the order.”

:13

E was a preacher. He said, “I have

no time to spend on animals. My

business is to preach the gospel.” The

gospel that ignores the weak and helpless,

whether man or bird or beast, is not
worth preaching.

The Sower and the Seed

HE daily papers, our leading magaé
zines, our educators, our pulpits are
more and more dwelling upon what they
call the sad decline in the moral standards
of our youth. Sad as may be the story, We
cannot help thinking of what it has meant
to the eight million children in the schools
of this land, reached by our American
Humane Education Society workers dur-
ing the years since the Society’s found—
ing by Mr. Angell. ‘
What have been the basic principles 'of
all worthy character which this Society
has been awakening and inculcating in
the minds of this vast host of children?
Justice and kindness and mercy. However
much of this good seed may have fallen
by the wayside or upon stony ground or
among thorns, we must be conﬁdent that
no small part must have fallen on good
ground and brought forth fruit, some
one-'hundred—fold, some sixty—fold, some
thirty-fold.
a

A Telling Appeal

URING the campaign for raising

here in Boston the city’s contribu-

tion toward the Red Cross, one of the

speakers said, at a special meeting,

“Where our money goes we go, where our
money goes our hand goes.”

What an appeal! Think for a moment.
Some worthy cause needs you, someone
is hungry, someone is starving, someone
is suffering. You send your dollars to
meet that crying need. With your dollars
you go, with your dollars your hand goes.
You put the bread into the hand of the
hungry, you speak the word that saves
the sufferer from despair. It may be
that today you are standing face to face
in a hundred places with a hundred
suffering men or women or children. It
may be that today it is your hand that is
ministering to a hundred of your human
fellows in their hour of trouble and sor-
row. Thank God if that is so.

a

T is no wonder that Humane Education
is thought of as among life’s spiritual

values, for its concern is with the mind
and heart of youth.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   

Hairy and Downy Woodpeckers.

The Downy Woodpecker
By GLADYS JORDAN

F ALL my birds, the little downy
woodpecker, that made his home in
the old apple tree in the orchard, was
the most interesting. He was friendly,
but never intimate. A brief “peek” was
his only answer to my daily greeting.
But he had important business to attend
to, so I forgave him.

He was hunting for, and ﬁnding, the
ﬂat-headed apple tree borers, of which
he kills great numbers. Up the tree he
would go, hunting every inch of the way
for his prey. The chips would ﬂy as he
drove deeper and deeper into the bark
until he found his victim, then his sharp,
horny tongue would drive straight for
its heart. When he had reached the top,
he would look about for a moment then
he would go down the tree backward at
a surprising rate of speed.

Downy’s feet differ from those of most
birds in that he has two front and two
hind toes. Most birds have three front
and one hind toe. Downy can cling to
the tree trunk easily and he seems to sit
back on his stiff, bristle tail which ﬂat-
tens out against the tree trunk like a
prop. On the tree or off the downy
woodpecker knows how to take care of
himself and he does not fear the cold
winter weather. He ﬁnds a hollow log
and there he drills himself a home. Just
a nice roomy hole where he can snuggle
down and forget the wind and weather.
By some strange instinct, he builds a
house that always faces the sunny south.
The wife does not bother to furnish or
decorate the home, instead she lays her
eggs on the bare ﬂoor and, like most
bird’s eggs that are hidden from the light
of day, they are pure White.

 

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Downy does not stop at killing merely

the apple borers, he next goes after the
codling moth and the caterpillars. He
sometimes chooses the surface—feeding
caterpillars and sometimes digs into the
bark for the borers. Sometimes this
bird has been called a sapsucker, but that
is pure libel. He is a staunch friend of
the farmer. He eats the larvae, eggs and
grubs of injurious insects. He eats less
than two per cent of grain and less than
six per cent of fruit and any workman
is worthy of his hire. Almost seventy-
ﬁve per cent of Downy’s food consists of
insects. He eats many thousands of the
May beetles, ants and plant lice. Of all
the woodpeckers, he really does the most
good.
There are ﬁve varieties scattered over
temperate North America and are more
often seen in the open than in the woods.
Their range is from the low swamps to
the mountain tops, though they are sel-
dom seen above three thousand feet.
These birds have a particular reason for
alighting on a pine tree. They are in
search of the pine weevil which destroys
the top shoots of the young white pine
and causes a crook in the tree trunk,
thereby cutting down its market value.

The young are blind, naked and help-
less, but later their persistent cries for
food keep their fond parents busy. When
full grown they are about six and three
quarters inches long. The male has a
red band across the back of his neck; the
female a white band. The upper parts
are black, spotted with white; under
parts, white. They go from Labrador
and Alaska to Florida and California.
If you want them for winter friends just
hang out a bit of suet and they will come,
even to your window pane, to “peek,
peek” their thanks. And they will look
after your trees through early spring
and summer in a most thorough and
positive manner.

43

A Pair of Birds
A butterfly and a hummingbird
Sat on the columbine.
They had met before on the clover,
And once on a trumpet vine.

.The hummingbird started his humming,

The butterfly seemed quite still.

Then a whirlwind came and scared them so
They both flew over the hill.

They found a tall colored daisy,
And one so very white,

They thought they’d found a passion flower
Where they could spend the night.

But the daisy white said, ”We haven’t room,
You better fly on to the oak.”

The hummingbird, humming again, flew on;

The butterfly never spoke.
The deadly nightshade whispered,
And told carnation white
That the oak was ”hospitality”
To a pair of birds that night.
——Catherine Nethken in Blue Moon

October 1944

The Cactus Wren

IKE most desert dwellers, the Cactus
Wren blends very well with the
scenery, wearing a soft brown suit with
a dash of black and white. He has also
learned to adapt himself to his surround-
ings, as do most birds. In the dry, desert
lands of Mexico and Lower California
he makes his home in the hollow stems
of the Jumping Cholla. The natives call
this cactus, with its terrible thorns and
swift growth, “the devil plant” but it is
a friend to the cactus wren, keeping him
safe from his chief enemies, the snake
and the weasel.

The Cactus Wren sometimes makes his
home in the thorny branches of the
Joshua Tree, a rather ugly member of
the ﬁne Yucca Family. In Arizona the
giant cactus or saguaro gives shelter to
the Cactus Wren and there he is liable to
have for company a wee grey owl, a tiny
woodpecker, and that dainty feathered
mite, the verdin or desert bush-tit.

The nest is very cleverly made with a
runway just large enough to let in the
rightful owners and keep out intruders.
There is also a roof to keep the hot
desert sun off the babies.

The Cactus Wren seems to be more
fond of nest building than most birds for
he often makes several. These extra
homes are called “cock nests” for there
the male bird keeps watch while the
mother bird and precious eggs or chicks
stay in a nest nearby. If there is any
sign of danger the father bird gives a
soft warning call, very different to his
usual clear, ringing note—one of the
most welcome sounds in lonely desert
lands.

The Cact-us Wren is larger than most
members of the family and he lacks the
pert, tip—tilted tail, but .he has all the wren
courage and cheeriness. The eggs are
among the loveliest in all the bird family
——soft pink with cinnamon markings.

—W7§m'fred Heath

 

 

 

 




 

 

FROM ONE OF THE WORLD’S
GREATEST DRAMAS

The Answer to Life’s Supreme Question

‘ UT where shall wisdom be found? and where is the
' place of understanding?

Man knoweth not the price thereof; neither is it
found in the land of the living. The depth saith, It is not in me;
and the sea saith, It is not with me.

It cannot be gotten for gold, neither shall silver be weighed
for the price thereof. It cannot be valued with the gold of
Ophir, with the precious onyx, or the sapphire. The gold and
the crystal cannot equal it; and the exchange of it shall not be
for jewels of fine gold.

No mention shall be made of coral, or of pearls; for the price
of wisdom is above rubies. The topaz of Ethiopia shall not equal
it, neither shall it be valued with pure gold.

Whence then cometh wisdom? and where is the place of
understanding? Seeing it is hid from the eyes of all living, and
kept close from the fowls of the air. Destruction and death say,
\Ve have heard the fame thereof with our ears.

God understandeth the way thereof, and he knoweth the place
thereof. For he looketh to the ends of the earth, and seeth under
the whole heaven; To make the weight for the winds; and he
weigheth the waters by measure.

When he made a decree for the rain, and a way for the lightning
of the thunder; Then did he see it, and declare it; he prepared it,
yea, and searched it out.

And unto man he said, Behold, the fear of the Lord, that is
wisdom; and to depart from evil is understanding.

-—]0b 28:12-28

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

July 1941;

Ofﬁcial Air-Wac Photo

AIR-WAC COMFORTS COLT
Visiting our Hospital. Air-Wac Pic. Arline

Michentelder paused to pat "Champ.' six-

month-old colt. left for treatment by his

master. James Carew. ot Roxbury. now
serving in the armed forces.

1%

Foster Parents

EIGHBORS of mine, last spring, re-
ported a pair of mocking birds
diligently feeding three young owls whom
the mockers appeared to think neglected,
probably because they were not being fed
in the daytime.

My neighbors watched this strange
sight for three days in succession," but
on the fourth day the owls and their
foster parents had moved off their prop-
erty and were lost to sight, though they
could hear them in nearby trees for an-
other day.

I was informed that the young owls
took what the mockingbirxds oﬁered with—
out hesitation, and it appeared not to
disagree with them, though the diet was
strange to their kind.

—Cora M. Williams

@
Furlough _

(By a Dog)
Oh, when I hear that whistIe! and you see
A streak of dog in frenzied happiness—
You'II understand! He’II pat my head and say:
“HeIIo, OId Scout! you missed me some,
I guess!"
I leap to kiss his hand, and then—Oh, Boy,
I wonder it a dog can die of joy?
—Laura Simmons

 

AOUR DUMB ANIMALS

Page 135

Society Opens New Shelter

Newly Acquired Brockton Branch Ready for Service

HE Massachusetts Society for the

Prevention of Cruelty to Animals is
proud to announce that the formal open—
ing of its small animal shelter in Brock-
ton, formerly operated by the Brockton
Humane Society, took place June 20. The
ceremonies were attended by ofﬁcers of
the Society, a number of prominent
Brockton city ofﬁcials and former mem—
bers and supporters of the Brockton
Humane Society.

The newly acquired shelter, which will
be known as the Brockton Branch of the
Massachusetts S. P. C. A., will serve
Brockton and the surrounding towns, and
has accommodations for a hundred small
animals. It was taken over several weeks
ago by our Society at the request of the
directors of the Brockton Society, and
since then extensive renovations have
been made and up-to-date facilities pro-
vided so that the animals brought to it
might receive the best possible care and
treatment. Several rows of kennels have
been installed, insulated with corrugated
tin, and each dog will enjoy its own pri-

haired fox terrier. "Bing.'l

vate compartment with adjoining exer-
cise pen.

The lot, which consists of ﬁve acres,
contains several buildings, as well as an
attractive small animal cemetery.

Mr. Herbert Liscomb has been ap-
pointed to have charge of the shelter and
will reside on the premises. We bespeak
for him the cooperation of all Brockton
citizens. The Society’s ambulance is now
ready to call for sick, injured or un-
wanted animals in that city and vicinity,
in so far as the gasoline and tire re-
strictions will permit, but everyone is
urged to bring his animal to the shelter
whenever possible. Requests for am-
bulance service should be made by tele-
phoning Brockton 2053.

The new shelter makes the seventh
now maintained by our Society in stra-
tegic localities throughout the State and
it is our sincere wish that the newly
acquired addition will serve Brockton in
the same cooperative spirit evidenced by
other branches.

 

Oiﬁcial U. S. Coast Guard Photo

"BING" ENLISTS IN THE U. S. COAST GUARD

To the Receiving Station. Hotel Brunswick. came recently one IS-month-old smooth-

He was presented to the Coast Guardsmen by Nurse

Kathleen Driscoll. oi the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital. Holding Bing is BM 2/c
James Middleton. and watching are BM 2/c Edward T. Lyons (left) and (right) Lieutenant
C. T. Scott. commanding officer.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

October1944 OUR DUMB ANIMALS . Page19'7

1
i
l
1

   

~l

5.," >
’ \
3X \ ‘\
0 «human

 
 
  

v . '
- . ‘.”/’1///Itldlluluu_lo .0" .'
"in-‘2?" ._ ' " f -' . 1 ‘.,..

      

_.
. n , \ ‘
c , u "' \ \f‘ \ \

\ ; . r,“ - ‘. \ \ “ . 1.. >\\ 1“. _
{EA-:13 gag. / ' ‘41-’{5'55’3 “f 3‘ \ ‘wg. » WW4 1 T1 I \i‘l“
3/}, ‘ 41.3.: ‘5’“ \ m ‘AV/ 5 ,3 .m‘zmm »._.\\ .2, '3‘“,
a u ﬁx >‘ 33 ﬂat”, , ‘ x ‘ ’ l L W “M/‘i' ‘

‘3“ .r\‘§ ' \‘\’ \ " ,z c 1". /' 4' ,:
$§S‘x\~ WF ‘ In" K 4‘ Qwésg “W. . ’

Portraits

By JESSIE MERLE FRANKLIN

A soft-eyed Spaniel, red of hair,

A brawny Pointer, sniﬂtng air,

A mother Setter, gentle, shy,

A cocky Airedale strutting by,

A Screwtail Bulldog, glad all over,

A Collie bounding through the clover,
A spotted dog who wears blach gloves,
And just a pup a small boy loves . . .
These neighbors call on me each day
To raid my scrap bowl, romp, and play,
And in each wagging tail I see

The plain truth: they’ve adopted me!

@

Answers to Animal Fact or Animal Fiction
1. True. Flocks are usually led by a strong, old gander.

2. False. A female heads the herd, probably because more
alert to danger. In ﬂight the males lead, breaking
the trail through the jungle.

3. False. It is very common, but because nocturnal it is seldom
seen.

 

4. False. The hairlike animals often seen in ponds are worms,
not snakes. They hatch from eggs laid on water

H. Armstrong Roberts photo plants.
MUSIC APPRECIATION CLASS 5. False. The king snake, a true constrictor, is immune to its
After their morning choresI the two boys raced to a sunny patch POiSOIl and quickly crushes it.
in the fence cornerI followed ioyously by their dogl "Jack." After 6. False. When danger threatens both sexes form a. circle sur-
they had planned an afternoon trip to the "old swimmin' hole." roulldiflﬁhthe 3’01“? and W111 ﬁght to thell’ death t0
Tim. the older of the two. fished from his overall's pocket a mouth pro ec eir ca V S"
' . ° _ 7. True. In spite of its long neck, the giraffe cannot bend.
organ and started to play a tune. Tounghobble looked on Inter its head down to the river but has to perform a
estedly and Jack leaned over against TIml perhaps to get the circus act with its legs to reach the water.
full benefit Of the musrc. You 6,3 n tellhe S enloymg '1' by the 8. False. The glass snake is not a snake but. a lizard. When in
contented expressnon on Ms face. danger, it can by a sudden twist of its tail snap it
off. While the enemy is watching the nervous switch-
& ing of its_tail, its owner crawls away. Later it grows
. Alley Cat a new tail.
' ' 0th
By LILLIE KRONK LEE 9. True. rsrdh‘iri'lelid leg or shoulder is grasped by the m er
Homeless Mtle alley cat, 10. False. At nesting time the domesticated turkey shows all
Hungry, t00, I know; the secretiveness of the wild turkey.
Would that 1,00uld.ﬁnd a place 11. True. They make a geometric pattern on the comb which,
Where (11071! d thrive and QTO’W- once seen, is never mistaken.
Maybe on a farm, where folks 12. True. The black bear is a good climber; the grizzly cannot
Have just lots of milk; 011mb-
T1” in time 2/0717" ragged f7” 13. True. In the adult kangaroo the reverse is true.

Would be ﬁne as silk.

PTGC’lOuS little alley cat, 15. True. Its head, pressed down into the mud in feeding until
A8 confused you roam, . it is really looking backward, is no doubt molded into
M ay some ZOUer of your kind the seemingly broken bill of the adult bird.

Find for you a home. —Bessie L. Putnam

14. False. The horn is made up of hair cells.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

Ready Reference

Nothing is so disconcerting as a
futile search for a particularly
desired copy of Our Dumb Animals.

Here is a chance to maintain a
permanent ﬁle in your private
library, by buying a bound volume
of the 1943 issues. There you will
have ready reference to the many
informative articles on nature and
animal care. It will be an invalu-
able aid to your children in their
school work.

Furthermore, these volumes make
splendid gifts, especially to school
and public libraries.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS for 1943
240 pages; 200 illustrations of
animals and birds

Price .......... $1.50
180 Longwood Ave., Boston 15, Mass.

 

 

 

 

 

NUTS

ﬂom f/Ze/szous-v
Golden Glow Shops

 

9

 

 

 

 

 

Since 1832
J. S. WATERMAN & SONS, Inc.

@thertakers
BOSTON—BROOKLINE—CAMBRIDGE

City and out-of-town service

 

7
.1

 

 

 

THIS SPACE
CONTRIBUTED

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

KINDNESS BLOTTER

Its appropriate illustration and
Kindness Week message, printed
in red and black on gray blotting
has a universal appeal.

Price, ﬁfty cents a hundred.
Order now from

American Humane Education
Society

180 Longwood Ave., Boston 15, Mass.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

PEABODY MASTER
PRINTERS

Catalogs - Ofﬁce Forms

Books - Publications

47 PORTLAND STREET
BOSTON

 

 

 

 

 

Posters for Be Kind to Animals Week

Popular Kindness Posters by Morgan Dennis Offered for the Annual Celebration
Remember the Dates: April 23-29 —- Humane Sunday, April 23

One week of intensive effort will produce ﬁfty-one more weeks of kinder treatment of our animal friends.

WWWﬂ/Miﬂﬂﬂ

 

Order Posters Now !

HESE posters are especially adapted

for use in school rooms, club rooms,
stores and various places of assembly.
Their use advertises Kindness Week
better than any other medium.

Plan to promote kindness to animals
now by sending for as many copies as
you can use. Prices are low and will be
sent postpaid:

Single copies ......... $ .10 each
Four copies ........... .25
Ten copies ........... .50
Twenty-ﬁve copies . . . . 1.00
Seventy-ﬁve copies . . . . 3.00
100 copies ............ 4.00

American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Ave., Boston 15, Mass.

i

E

x
iirl
‘1;
Sr;
%%
l
3%
i}
l
31‘
g
E
i
i
ll

l
|

i Mum—“am.“—
7 km

‘ I

3 A

1 '3‘v'

 

 

 

 

 




_ .‘-’
”f

 

 

 

 

 

J une 1 91;],

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

A BABY LLAMA, THREE MONTHS OLD

Rebellious Llama

oWne-d a llama, the kind of treatment

given the animal would quickly deter-
mine w-hether or not you and Mr. (or
Mrs.) Llama were going to be friends.

Llamas are related to the camel of the
Old World and, like most camels, they
will stand-for no foolishness. If you
treat them kindly, they are willing and
docile, but if you mistreat or overload
them, they lie down and. refuse to move,
as if to say by their actions: “No amount
of punishment can conquer me —— only
kindness can accomplish that.” To show
you further that they mean business, they
will spit a ball of saliva and food at any-
one attempting to force them to rise.

The llama, whose nearest relatives are
the alpaca and the vicuna of the Andes,
is about three feet high at the shoulders
and is capable ofcarrying 120 pounds at

IF .you lived in South America, and

the leisurely rate of 12 miles a day.
Usually only the males are used as the
beast of burden. The female, it is said,
gives wholesome milk, but will soon go
“dry” if the double duty of supplying
milk and acting as an animal transport
is imposed upon her.

When the Spaniards conquered Peru in
the 16th century, they found the Incas
of that land usinghundreds of thousands
of llamas as riding animals and beasts of
burden. In the whole New World these
were the only domesticated animals, ex—
cept dog-s. The Spanish conquerors con—
tinued to use the llamas, and long strings
of these animals in charge of a few native
drivers were soon carrying silver over
mountain trails to the coast. Until the
middle of the 19th century there was no
other means of transportation in the
Andes. ~Wilbert N. Savage

Page 105

Impossible ?

ERHAPS we, the human race, would

‘be better off were we like the rabbit

or the bumble bee. At least, there is no

such word as “impossible” in the vocabu-
lary of an animal.

As an example, a little boy came in
from the ﬁeld‘s one day and said, “Daddy,
I saw the funniest thing today.”

“What was that, Son?” his dad asked.

“I happened to look out across the ﬁeld
this afternoon and coming toward the
corner of the ﬁeld was a rabbit being
chased by a dog.”

“Well,” his dad asked, “who won?”

“The rabbit, Dad. You know that the
corner of the ﬁeld is a solid mass of rocks
and briars. Well, that rabbit climbed
right up the old aspen tree nearby.”

“But, Son, that’s impossible,” said his
dad.

“But, Dad, he did! He HAD to.”

Scientiﬁcally, the bumble bee can’t ﬂy,
yet he does. His wings are too fragile
and thin, so the scientists say. It is im-
possible for such wings to support such
a heavy body is the scientiﬁc version, but
that makes no difference to the bumble
bee.

Another example is the proliﬁc little
lemming. Every few years the lemmings
march in hordes into the sea. They swim
and swim and then swim some more until
every ounce of strength is gone. They
drown, true, but they still do not know
that the feat is impossible. They just
keep going until the end.

—Cadet George M. Gividen, Jr.

4%
Ownership

Someone gave a dog to me—
A curly, snowy Spitz—

A bit of femininity

Possessed of woman’s wits.

Her eyes are like two shining coals;
Her tail, a willow plume.

With canine dignity she took
Possession of my room.

My chair is hers; my lap; the fire;
I'm sure she must have known

I bought my footstool for my feet.
The footstool is her throne.

She has become my manager
Without a reason why.
For every movement that I make

She is an F. B. I.

If someone knocks, or comes to call,

She makes tremendous fuss.

The room seems just too small for three,
But big enough for us.

Now, someone gave that dog to me.
Please, “ownership” define;

For I have found that I am hers
While thinking she is mine.

——-'CHRISTINE PARK HANKINSON

 

 

 

 




 

Page 74

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

Executive Vice-President Eric H. Hansen presents medal to Joseph F. KellyI Jr.

Hero Awarded Medal

HE Massachusetts Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals
recently honored Joseph F. Kelly,
Jr., 15, of Watertown, Mass, by pre-
senting him with a beautiful bronze
humane medal for his heroic deed in
saving the life of a mongrel dog that
was trapped in the frigid waters of the
Charles River by ﬂoating ice cakes.
Young Kelly, at the risk of his own life,
made his way through rotting ice and
swam to the rescue of the animal.
Joseph, a member of the junior class
of St. Patrick’s High School in Water-
town, was walking across the North
Beacon Street bridge when he saw the
dog walking on the ice about 15 feet
from shore. As he was watching, he saw
the dog suddenly fall through the ice
and try frantically to pull himself back
to safety. Kelly watched the dog try
again and again, but the ice crumbled
beneath him each time and he realized
that the animal was rapidly losing his
strength.

Without an instant’s delay the lad ran
down the bank of the river and found
a Metropolitan District Commission row-
boat, into which he jumped and poled
his way across the ice in the direction
of the dog. As he neared the open water,
he stepped from the boat in an effort to
grasp the dog, and as he did so the ice
gave beneath him and he fell into the
water.

Instead of giving way to his natural
instinct for self-preservation, however,
the boy swam the short distance to the
dog, grasped him by the collar and swam

back to the boat, into which he ﬁnally
managed to lift the dog. Then he hauled
himself in and poled the boat back to
shore. Upon reaching land, the rescued
canine promptly raced away.

Mr. Eric H. Hansen, Executive Vice-
President of the Society, who made the
award, lauded the boy for his outstanding
humane act, which, Kelly declared, was
prompted by his keen interest in all
animal life.

 

”(/2

"Blackie."

April 1944

Cat from Pearl Harbor

1TH everything but a Hawaiian

lei to accompany him on his long
journey from Pearl Harbor, “Blackie,”
a three-year-old cat, arrived recently for
a check-up at our Hospital. Blackie is
the pet of Mr. and Mrs. Frederick H.
Schroedel and preceded them to their
home in Melrose.

The specially designed, gable-roofed
house that brought Blackie to the East
Coast, stands over two feet high, is three
feet long and two feet wide, and is adapt-
able for use in hot and cold weather,
having removable screens for warm cli-
mates and sliding windows for cooler
temperatures.

Among the many labels and shipping
tags that adorned the outside of the
cat’s abode, was one bearing the follow—
ing instructions: “My name is Blackie.
I am three years old and I have never
been separated from my owners before.
I do not like to be handled, but I do
like to be talked to. I like to bed in the
morning and evening. I am not especially
fond of canned food, but will try to eat
it. I am fond of canned milk and I like
one vitamin tablet each day. Please
break my vitamin tablet in pieces so I
will not choke on it. Thank you for your
kindness to me. Blackie.”

Needless to say, this coal-black member
of the feline species was very happy when
he arrived in Boston and it was not long
before he was purring his appreciation
of the kindly treatment he received from
the nurses and veterinary staff at the
Hospital. They seemed to have little

difﬁculty in making the much-traveled
cat feel right at home.

  

from Pearl Harbor. surrenders himsehc happily lo Nurse Kathleen DrlSCOII-

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 138

(like Eleni! nf Mary nr

3111mm ﬁnmanr Eragur
DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ERIC H. HANSEN, Executive Vice-President
WILLIAM A. SWALLOW, Secretary

PLEDGE

I will try to be kind to all living crea-
tures and try to protect them from cruel
usage.

The American Humane Education So-
ciety will send to every person who forms
a Band of Mercy of thirty members, and
sends the name chosen for the Band and
the name and post—ofﬁce address of the
president who has been duly elected, special
Band of Mercy literature and a gilt badge
for the president.

NEW BANDS OF MERCY

One hundred and thirty-ﬁve Bands of
Mercy were organized during May. These
were distributed as follows:

' Massachusetts . . . . . . . . . . . 80
Florida .................... 34
New Hampshire ........ . . . 10
Virginia ................... 7
Pennsylvania ....... . . 4

Total number Bands of Mercy organ-
ized by Parent-American Society, 268,269.

SUMMARY OF FIELD WORK

Number of addresses made, 146
Number of persons in audiences, 18,956

d

Oldest Dog Dies
EGGY” MILLER, 20, oldest living
graduate of the Springﬁeld Branch
of The Massachusetts S. P. C. A., died
recently at the home of her owner, Miss
Delia C. Miller, of Springﬁeld.

Peggy, a smooth-haired fox terrier,
was given to Miss Miller by the Society’s
agent 20‘ years ago as a watchdog, but
she developed into a pet instead. Although
her age was comparable to 140 years for
man, Peggy was an extensive traveler.
She had toured Canada and the western
states and spent every summer at Hamp-
ton Beach, N. H.

The ebody was buried at “Hillside Acre,”
Methuen, animal cemetery of our Society.

 

"Peggy" Miller

OUR DUMB

ANIMALS

July 19.41;

 

(Left to right) Dr. Francis H. Rowley. president. Massachusetts S. P. C. A.; Mrs.

Harvey R. Preston. elected corresponding secretary; Mrs. Robert R. Miller. re-elected

Auxiliary president and Eric H. Hansen.

executive vice-president.- Massachusetts

S. P. C. A.

Annual Meeting in Springﬁeld

RINCIPAL speakers at the annual
meeting of the Springﬁeld Auxil-
iary, held recently at the Hotel

Sheraton, were our President, Dr. Francis
H. Rowley and Executive Vice—President
Eric H. Hansen.

Dr. Rowley expressed high regard for
the humane attitude of Springﬁeld citi-
zenry as evidenced by its interest in
animal welfare and paid special tribute
to the members of the Auxiliary for their
untiring efforts.

The value of humane education in
schools, boys’ clubs and youth organiza-
tions to counteract child delinquency was
stressed by Mr. Hansen in his address to
the group.

At the business meeting Mrs. Robert
R. Miller was re-elected president, to-
gether with the following ofﬁcers: First
vice-president, Mrs. Harold S. Treworgy;
second vice-president, Mrs. Harold G.
Duckworth; recording secretary, Mrs.
Lawrence Davis; corresponding secre-
tary, Mrs. Harvey R. Preston; treasurer,
Mrs. Fred B. Korbel. Directors serving
another year include Mrs. Walter J.
Dubon, Mrs. Duckworth, Mrs. Charlena
B. Kibbe, Mrs. M. F. Peterson, Mrs.
Stuart M. Robson and Mrs. Treworgy.

Mrs. Paul M. Kellogg, chairman of the
humane education committee, outlined
the extensive program carried out in
cooperation with school ofﬁcials. Her
report said, in part:

“We feel immeasurably gratiﬁed to
have been instrumental in organizing in
the local schools a most constructive pro—

gram and in accenting the contacts be-
tween children and the hospital. The
Auxiliary has bought books which may
be used by children who visit the hospital
and which are to be loaned to schools
desiring them. A copy of the Auxiliary’s
ﬁlm, SMALL PETER’S CHIEF AD—
VENTURE, was given to the schools for
their use. Mrs. Kib‘be and ‘Skippy’ have
been invited to visit several rooms of
children and to show the ﬁlm. Many
children have listened to her broadcasts
on each Tues-day. They have visited the
hospital and learned ﬁrst-hand of its
work. From these activities and actual
contact with live animals evolve prob-
lems in writing, history of animals and
their evolution, reading, radio and motion
picture appreciation, practical arithmetic,
appreciation of poetry, executive work
in committees, nature study and care and
kindness to animals, birds and insects.
In short, humane education is limitless
in its integration with the entire school
work. The contributions which the chil-
dren of the schools have made in true
stories of pets is outstanding.

“Mrs. Harold Treworgy’s successful ad-
ventures in securing window space for
humane education publicity during Be
Kind to Animals Week, in nineteen down-
town stores was no small achievement.
Some of the displays were most effective
and brought to thousands of disturbed
people the message that much of the
trouble in the world today is due, in part,
to the failure of many groups to em-
phasize kindness to animal life.”

 

 

 




 

From the

PRESIDENT’S DESK

 

 

T was stated on a National Child Labor

Day that no one can truthfully say, “I
don’t use goods made by children.” In—
stead, the assertion was that everybody
who eats food, wears clothes, uses ma-
terial, reads ‘ anything, or plays with
anything, uses articles produced, in part,
by child labor.

vii

'E wonder how many of the hun-
dreds of people who invoke the aid
of the press, Governors, Mayors, and
other ofﬁcers to prevent or put a stop to
cruelty to animals ever thank them after
their requests have been complied with.

d

WELL-KNOWN author, writing
about Thomas Paine so greatly exe-
crated years ago by many sincere people,
says he was an earnest advocate of justice
and kindness in all man’s relation to the
animal world.
@

HY is it harder to persuade people
to give for the humane education
of a child than for the prevention of a
present act of cruelty? The former will
pay 1,000 per cent larger interest on the
money invested.
a

EARLY all of the conquered coun-
tries of Europe have had in the past
their own societies for the prevention of
cruelty to animals. From none of them
have we heard for a long time since this
war began. What this has meant to the
unfortunate animals for whom they used
to care, one can only wonder.

a

T was no shallow optimist, but so wise
and thoughtful a man as Montaigne
who wrote, “There is no greater evidence
of wisdom than a continual cheerfulness.”
No one ever crossed the street to get rid
of meeting our old friends the Brothers
Cheeryble. Even four-footed animals
know the difference between Mr. Growl-
at-Everything and his neighbor, Mr. See-
the-Good.

Our First Gold Star

F THE twenty—eight men employed

by our Society, and now in the serv-
ice of the armed forces, the ﬁrst one, so
far as we know, reported as having given
his life, is Staff Sergeant Arthur Scho-
ﬁeld, who for years was our ambulance
driver in Methuen.

Arthur was a rare young fellow, faith—
ful in every way, making friends for the
Society, as during each year he would
pick up hundreds of lost, stray or in—
jured small animals, never a complaint
coming about him as failing in any way,
a smile almost always on his face, and
greatly missed since he left us in 1942.

Word has just been received that he
was killed as the result of a plane crash
at Aden, Arabia, January 21.

Arthur was the son of Mr. and Mrs.
John Schoﬁeld of Methu‘en, and was mar—
ried, in July, 1941, to Alice Arblaster.
He took his basic training at Goldsboro,
North Carolina.

To his wife and parents we extend our
sincere sympathy.

a
An Act of Kindness

HE following is an illustration of
what the Angell Memorial Animal
Hospital is repeatedly doing:
A letter came to us recently which, in
a few words, said, “I am a poor man.
I live with my mother. We have hard
work to get on. I lost one arm in child-
hood, and since an attack of spinal menin-
gitis, I lost my hearing and my power of
speech. I can write. My comfort is my
dog. He has a bad sore on his back.
I cannot heal it. Would you send for him
and give him the proper treatment?”
Of course, this we gladly did.

@

HE barking dog, even if he doesn’t

bite, is like the interminable talker—-
a good deal of a nuisance. Queen Vic-
toria once said, “There are people who
talk to you as if you were a public
audience.”

Again “Lassie Come Home”

INCE the publication in our last issue

of Mr. Craven’s story about the cele-
brated picture, “Lassie Come Home,” we
have had the opportunity to see it our—
selves. It is a remarkable picture, beau-
tifully and most effectively screened. All
dog lovers will intensely enjoy it, and
those who do not love dogs certainly
ought to see it.

This we are glad to say in spite of the
fact that there are two or three scenes
where it looks as if there was ill-treat—
ment of the dogs, but this is not the case.
In the strenuous ﬁght the dogs are muz—
zled, their paws are so treated that they
cannot even hurt each other and, as we
said in the former article, we are con-
ﬁdent from the testimony given us that
no cruelty exists. Still, it is to be re-
gretted that in making the picture, even
what looked like possible suffering on the
part of the animals was allowed to be
portrayed.

a

Go to the Bee

HE MAKER 0f proverbs might have

said, “Go to the bee” as well as “Go
to the ant,” for light and leading. Indeed,
had he known the bee as well as he did
the ant he would probably have put her
ﬁrst in wisdom.

The narrow brain of the bee with its
highly developed lobes and multiple con-
volutions, we are told, forms the one
hundred and sixty-ﬁfth part of the total
volume of its body, while that of the ant
forms only the two hundred and eighty-
sixth part.

Here is a ﬁne bit of moral teaching
from the bee: A humble country priest
initiating Evrard into the study of the
bee bade him not be afraid as they
approached the hive. “Bees,” he said,
“are more peaceful than human beings.
Do you know that charming motto of
Father Bouhours?” “No,” replied Ev-

rard. “Do not forget it,” said the kindly
curé. “It has the wisdom of a national
proverb. Spo-nte favos, aegre spicula.

One might translate it: ‘My honey with
all my heart. My sting reluctantly.’ ”

 




September 191,1,

Retired Workers’ Fund

'E are receiving gifts to the Ameri-
. can Humane Education Society as a
trust fund, the interest to be used for the
beneﬁt of ﬁeld missionaries and others
who have spent their lives in promoting
humane education. Already several cases
have come to our attention and are being
relieved in this way. 'We will welcome
your contribution to this fund.

Please make checks payable to Albert
A. Pollard, Treasurer, American Humane
Education Society, 180 Longwood Ave-
nue, Boston, and specify that the amount
contributed is for the Humane Educa-
tion Trust Fund.

ﬂ

Liberal Annuity Rates
ADVANTAGES

No coupons to clip, no papers to sign and
mail. You simply receive your checks at
stated intervals—that’s all there is to it.

Annuity agreements are frequently used
to provide for one’s or another’s future
years.

It is no experiment. There is no anxiety.
No ﬂuctuations in rate of income. No
waste of your estate by a will contest.

a: a: are a:

A pamphlet giving necessary information
gladly sent upon request.

Tip Massachusetts S. P. C. A., or 'the
American Humane Education Society, 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston 15.

The management of our invested funds is
a guarantee of the security of these Life

Annuities.

RATES OF MEMBERSHIP IN
THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
OR THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.
Active Life $100 00 Active Annual $10 00
Associate Life 50 00 Associate Annual 5 00
Sustaining Life 20 00 Annual 1 00
Children’s $0 75
Checks and other payments may be sent to ALBERT

A. POLLARD, Treasurer, 180 Longwood Avenue,
Boston 15.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

HOSPITAL REPORT FOR JULY

At 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston 15

Cases entered in Hospital ...... 886
Cases entered in Dispensary . . . . 1,928
Operations .................. 217

At Springﬁeld Branch, 53 Bliss Street

Cases entered in Hospital ...... 234

Cases entered in Dispensary . . . 851

Operations .................. 91
Totals

Hospital cases since opening

Mar. 1, 1915 .............. 235,485
Dispensary cases ............. 587,997
Total ............ 823,482

JULY REPORT OF THE OFFICERS
OF THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A»
WITH HEADQUARTERS AT BOSTON,
METI-IUEN, SPRINGFIELD, PITTSFIELD,

ATTLEBORO, WENHAM, HYANNIS,
WORCESTER, FITCHBURG, NORTH-
AMPTON, HAVERHILL, HOLYOKE,

ATHOL, AND BROCKTON, COVERING
THE ENTIRE STATE.

Miles‘traveled by humane ofﬁcers 14,730

Cases investigated ............ 271
Animals examined ............ 2,488
Animals placed in homes ........ 262
Lost animals restored to owners. . 57
Number of prosecutions ........ ‘1
Number of convictions ......... 1
Horses taken from work .- ....... l7
Horses humanely put to sleep . . . 29
Small animals humanely put to
sleep ...................... 3,524
Horse auctions attended ........ l7
Stockyards and Abattoirs
Animals inspected ............. 57,597
Cattle, swine and sheep humanely
put to sleep ................ 16

 

 

TO OUR

tion with any other similar Society.

FORM OF

property. describe the property).

given gladly.

 

 

In making your will. kindly bear in mind that the corporate title ot our Society is "The Massachu-
setts Society tor the Prevention ot Cruelty to Animals"; that it is the second incorporated (March.
I868) Society tor the Prevention ot Cruelty to Animals in the country. and that it has no connec—

Any bequest especially intended tor the benetit ot the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital. should.
nevertheless. be made to the Massachusetts Society tor the Prevention ot Cruelty to Animals "tor
the use ot the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital." as the Hospital is not incorporated but is the
property ot that Society and is conducted by it.

I give to The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (or to the
American Humane Education Society). the sum ot ................ dollars (or. it other

The Society's address is I80 Longwood Avenue, Boston l5, Mass. lntormation and advice will be

FRIENDS

BEQUEST

 

 

 

 

Page 1’73

Love Finds A Way
EAVING his pet dog at home, little
8-yeiar-old Bernal Carpenter of Hills—
dale, Michigan, was taken by his parents
to the Hills-dale Community Health
Center for treatment. Then one day
shortly after Bernal entered the hospital
the lad’s parents missed the dog. Fortu-
nately, he turned up a few days later
and saved the anxious parents the ordeal
of breaking the bad news to their son.
Attendants at the hospital where the
youth was conﬁned found the missing pet
on that institution’s doorstep, which, in-
cidentally, is eleven miles from the
Carpenter residence.

—Rcmdolph Mae Farlan
Wit and Humor

IE N OWIN G that the minister was very
fond of cherry brandy, one of the

’ church elders offered to present him with

a bottle on one condition—that the pastor
acknowledge the gift in the church paper.
“Gladly,” responded the good man.

When the church magazine came out
a few days later the elder turned at once
to the “Appreciation” column. There he
read:

“The minister extends his thanks to
Elder Brown for his gift of fruit and
the spirit in which it was given.”

American Fondouk, Fez
Report for June, 1944

Daily average large animals: 20.3
Daily average dogs: 7.3
Animals put to sleep: 9
Entries:7 horses, 6 mules, 49 donkeys
Exits: 6 horses, 6 mules, 48 donkeys

Outpatients: 268 horses, 64 mules, 368 donkeys, and
2 dogs

Fondouks visited 399
Animals inspected 5,940
Animals treated ............................. 737
Animals sent in ............................. 73
Pack-saddles destroyed ....................... 5
Arab bits destroyed .......................... 8
Animals sent by Police Department . .. . . .. .. . 28

Amount of our expenses for the month:

$364'31' GUY DELON

Superintendent

Upon the Discovery of the
First Pansy of the Spring

Pretty little pansy tace,

Peeking through the snow

Little bonnet trimmed with lace
And coquettish bow.

Wee small shoulders velvet clad,
Purple, gold and blue

Stately queens might wish they had
Gorgeous raiment such as you.

Cheery little pansy face,
Cherished by us all

As you grew beside the base
01‘ our garden wall.

Looking at your tiny face,

Good resolves I make—

I, too, will smile with grace

In life's game of give and take.
—Sa,die H camel-Damon

 

 

. “A; . .; «.A. ‘.

 

 

 

 




September 1944

Mediterranean

Mascots

By W. J. BANKS

WOOLLY YOUNG DONKEY
ADOPTED BY CANADIAN REGIMENT

ANY are the strange pets which
Allied ﬁghting men have acquired
in Mediterranean lands. This extremely
woolly young donkey has been adopted as
the ofﬁcial mascot of a Canadian infan—
try regiment in Italy. Private P. T.
Leachman, duly elected as the long-eared
pet’s ofﬁcial guardian, feeds and waters
the donkey daily, and ﬁnds little difﬁculty
in tempting his charge’s all-inclusive
appetite. Other mascots acquired by
American and British units in Italy in-
clude goats, sheep, ducks and other deni-
zens of the barnyard, not to mention the
inevitable cats and dogs which turn up
in profusion wherever ﬁghting men are
found.

Then there was “Boogie,” a very small
and very frightened African monkey who
clam‘bered aboard an American soldier’s
neck during a hot battle in Tunisia.
Boogie, in return for loving care and gen-
erous rations, saved the doughboy’s life
three times. Once, she stopped him from
drinking from a poisoned well; then she
found wild ﬁgs when he was lost and
starving in the desert; and ﬁnally she
directed a ﬁrst aid party to the spot

Parrot Plane Spotter . . . .

LARGE packing case bobbed up

and down in the surf off the shore of
an island in the Paciﬁc Ocean which was
just recently taken from the Japs by
American troops.

Sergeant Kres Forbes, of Chicago, Illi-
nois, in charge of an anti-aircraft unit
near the beach, watched the case as it
came nearer. Finally he noticed some-
thing atop the case. Something that ﬂut—
tered to keep its balance every time the
box twisted in the water. The sergeant
took up his glasses and saw that a bird
was riding atop the case. At ﬁrst he
mistook it for an injured seagull. He
gave immediate orders for two of his men
to go to the rescue.

When they had dragged the case upon
the beach the bird proved to be a par-
rot. He was excited but uninjured and
greeted his rescuers, who handled him
tenderly, with loud squawks.

The anti-aircraft men adopted the

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

where he had been buried alive by a
bursting shell in Italy. Boogie later came
to America with her wounded pal.
Another famed North African mascot
was “Emma,” of El Alamein, a barnyard
biddy who reversed the usual order of
nature by chasing “the Desert Fox” all
the way from Egypt to Tunis. The hen

a

bird immediately and named him Crusoe.
He took to the soldiers from the minute
they picked him up. They found that
Crusoe couldn’t talk but how he could
squawk when planes were in the air.

Crusoe can’t tell an enemy plane yet
from a friendly one but that matters
little as his squawking at the approach
of planes puts the men on instant alert
before they can see or hear a plane.

Crusoe hasn’t been wrong yet in giv-
ing the alarm. Hearing planes is noth-
ing compared to Crusoe’s ability to spot
them with his eyes.

Crusoe can do things with his eyes
that no human can do with eyes and
ﬁeld glasses combined. Crusoe can look
directly into the most glaring sun and
spot one or more planes without the
least trouble. He has done it several
times when enemy craft tried sneak
attacks on the island by coming in out
of the sun. '

Page 167

pursued Rommel in style, riding in a
comfortable nest behind the brake pedals
of one of General Montgomery’s tanks.
Corporal Walsh, her owner and driver of
the tank, augmented his rations with a
daily fresh egg which he could fry by
the simple process of breaking it on the
sun-heated steel of his modern chariot.

By A. M. VITALE

The J aps no doubt think the Americans
have a new secret weapon for spotting
planes in the sun because they’ve found
lately that every time they try the sneak
stunt on this island the Americans are
ready and waiting, thanks to Crusoe.

Even when Crusoe is dozing his keen
hearing is on the alert. On several oc-
casions aircraft have approached the is—
land while the bird napped. Long before
the planes could be seen or heard by
human ears and eyes Crusoe would awake
and spread the alarm. At sound or sight
of a far-off plane, Crusoe squawks loudly,
ﬂaps his wings and carries on until he

sees the soldiers man the guns. He gen-

erally cocks one eye in the direction from
whence the planes are coming.

At the ﬁrst burst of gunﬁre, however,
the bird ducks for cover in the jungle
and doesn’t come out until the ﬁring
ceases.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

Page 81;

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Black Widow Is Drafted

NEWARK, New Jersey, newspaper
A of recent date tells of the gift to
the city’s museum of a “danger-
ous lady.” The lady proved to be none
other than the dreaded black widow
spider. The donor had heard that the
threads a spider spins may be used in
bomb sights and other precision instru-
ments. He thought the little lady could
be transported to some government labo—
ratory and she could be persuaded to
spin for Uncle Sam. He was told that the
government only chooses certain species
of spiders and that it is against the law
to send poisonous insects through the
mails.

The latter is without doubt true, and
it is also true that formerly the common
variety of garden spider has furnished
the silken threads for these instruments.
But in this war emergency the “danger-
ous” black widow has redeemed herself.
She has been deﬁnitely drafted into the
service of her country. She is now spin-
ning for Uncle Sam. She looks very much
like the ordinary spider except that she
is smooth, black, instead of mottled

Scole, My Neighbor’s Dog

COLE was a young, beautiful, black
Doberman-Pinscher. His master was
away during the day and Scole became
lonesome and restless. He eyed me for
some time as I was working on my lawn
across the street.

Finally he decided to get acquainted
and came over with a half apologetic
expression for trespassing. Not ﬁnding
an enemy, but a potential friend, he made
his call brief and departed feeling quite
pleased with his venture.

The next day he called again, this time
bringing a ball in his mouth and laying
it at my feet.

His main object was to invite me for
a walk; and this is the way he did it. He
knew I would throw the ball and he
reasoned that if he brought it back, not
dropping it at my feet but some distance
away in the street, I would probably walk
out, pick it up, and throw it in the street
again still farther away. This is exactly
what happened.
as I could. He brought it back part way
and so before the play was over we would
be several blocks from home. In this way,
I had my daily walk and he had his daily
run. Sometimes he could not ﬁnd the
ball and then he would bring a stick, place
it at my feet, look up into my face and
say in his own language—“Please take
another walk with me, we had such a good
time yesterday.”

Do dogs think? What do you think?

—Theodore A. Waltri'p

brown, and bears a scarlet hourglass on
her under side. Although some naturalists
say her bite is not poisonous and certainly
not fatal, yet she can be a real nuisance
in the South where she is numerous.

But now she has redeemed herself and
is being rounded up at Ft. Knox, Ky.,
and sent to Columbus, Ohio, to the
Quartermaster Depot. She is rationed
also, being allowed only two ﬂies per
week. She extrudes a ﬁne strong thread
about a ﬁfth of the diameter of a human
hair, and tougher than steel or platinum
wire of the same size. She will spin from
one hundred to one hundred and eighty
feet of spider silk a week. This web is
exactly right in color and texture for the
cross hairs in telescopes, microscopes,
surveyor’s transits and range ﬁnders.

Women handle the spiders with pincers
and seldom get bitten. As the spider
spins her ﬁne thread the women wind it
onto reels of strong wire.

So the dangerous black widow spider
joins our armed forces against a more
dangerous enemy.

—Edith C. Pitcher

His Badge of Honor

ED,” a big Irish setter, is wearing a

decoration for “conspicuous gallantry
and intrepidity” today. His decorative
citation consists of a miniature J ap flag
that is sewed to the baseball cap he
habitually wears.

When the Marine ﬁghter squadron, the
Flying Deuces, to which he is a mascot,
arrived at Villa Lavella Island in the
Solomons, there was found only one Jap
survivor—a ﬁerce mongrel hound that
charged from the jungle at the squadron’s
pilot. However, before the Japanese
canine could do any damage, Red inter-
cepted him, and chased the foreign ani—
mal back into the jungle.

—Randolph M acFa/rlcm

 

May 1941;

Solomon’s Judgment
By MAX MEREDITH

RING me a sword!” cried the king.
And they brought a sword before
the throne.
“Divide the living child in two,” the
king commanded, “and give half to the
one, and half to the other.”

By this renowned test of true mother-
hood, in one of the most dramatic scenes
in the Bible, King Solomon decided two
women’s dispute about a child, and wisely
did judgment.

Last summer another Solomon—a New
York City magistrate of that name——
similarly did judgment, almost as wisely.
He decided a dispute between a cobbler
and another man concerning the owner-
ship of a Pomeranian puppy.

After listening to the testimony, the
judge addressed the two litigants kindly.

“You two people go sit down over there
for a while,” he said, “While I hear some
other cases. Until I get back to you, just
let the dog wander around the court-
room.”

First the puppy ran from the girl,
sitting with her father, and crossed the
room to the other man, to sit by his legs
and wag his tail. Then the girl called
to him and the puppy ran across to her,
but soon the tiny dog left her and re-
turned to the cobbler’s side, where he
leisurely lai-d himself down and calmly
watched the court proceedings.

Calling the case again, the judge de-
manded some proof of the cobbler that
the dog was really his, as alleged. The
Pomeranian knew some tricks, ventured
the claimant, hopefully. Promptly the
man on the bench asked to see them per-
formed.

The cobbler spoke a command and the
puppy stood on its hind legs. It stuck
out its paw to shake hands. Then it stood
on its head. Convinced by the results of
these tests of true ownership, the modern

wise Solomon awarded the dog to the
cobbler.

 

I threw the ball as far .

 

 

Sketch by Bill Sagermann

Odd Facts in Rime

How a Tiny Lady Carpenter
Lays Her Eggs
By CARROLL VAN COURT

A busy little worker is
The smart ichneumon fly;
She lands upon a certain log,
And then before your eye

She puts her little boring-tool
To work, with clever skill;
Her tail is like a chisel, for
It really is a drill!

 

 




 

 

 

 

Page 86

Origin of Birds

HERE are several theories as to the

origin of birds, but all authorities
agree that the remote ancestors of birds
were very probably scaly, tree—dwelling,
lizard-like reptiles. Anatomists of the
19th century demonstrated that birds, in
the makeup of their brain, skeleton, re-
productive organs and other structures,
as well as in their mode of development,
are “gloriﬁed reptiles” or “feathered
saurians.”

Proof of the remote ancestry of birds
was unearthed about three-quarters of a
century ago from the slate quarries near
Solnhofen, in Bavaria. The workers in
these quarries noted they often dug up
slate with “pictures”; actually they were
fossils with imprints of crabs and other
creatures. When this became known to
scientists, they asked that the workmen
be instructed not to destroy any fossils
they found.

About 1860, a workman found a small
piece of slate which had the imprint of
what seemed like a small bird’s feather.
This was an exciting ﬁnd. The slate in
that Bavarian town belonged to the geo—
logical period known as the Jurassic, a
time when gigantic saurians roamed the
earth. This fossil was the ﬁrst indica-
tion that birds existed at the time.

There was doubt as to whether this
discovery was actually the imprint of a
bird’s feather. But only a year later this
doubt was removed by the ﬁnding of a
second fossil which showed many tiny
bones, surrounded by many feathers. The
image was about the size of a crow; it
had a long lizard-like tail, with feathers
on each side, but the hind legs looked
more like those of a bird. A third fossil,
more complete than the ﬁrst two, con-
ﬁrmed the exciting discovery of the bird’s
ancestry. It indicated, too, that the ﬁrst
bird had rows of little lizard teeth.

As for the bird’s further evolution, the
theory is they became arboreal animals,
with the habit of scaling downwards
through the air, after the fashion of fly-
ing squirrels.

-—Alan A. Brown

1%

 

 

Dictionary of Dogs
By Aletha M. Bonner.—

The Chow

”I came from China," says the Chow

(We will translate his own bow-wow),
”And I am very friendly, too,"

He told us in the interview.

"Black, white, tan, red, with ruff at throat,
I wear a smooth or rough-haired coat.

I also have a loyal heart,

And folks oft say, ‘That dog is smart." "

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

ANIMA LORE

EEL—The ribbon-like young eel is so
transparent that print may be read
through its body, say experts from the
Bureau of Fisheries.

BISON—In pioneer days, it was not un-
common to see a single herd of bisons
ranging twenty-ﬁve miles across. It has
been said that buffalo herds, in swim-
ming the Missouri River, held up river
trafﬁc for days. -

WORTH SAVING—The cardinal or red
bird feeds on the Rocky Mountain locust,
periodical cicada and Colorado potato
beetle. He is also an enemy of the rose
chafer, cotton worm, plum or cherry
scale and other scale insects; and attacks
many other insect pests including the
zebra caterpillar of the cabbage, the
cucumber bettles, billbugs, locust, ﬂea-
beetle, corn-ear worm, cotton cutworm,
southern fig-eater, codling moth and boll
weevil. He also consumes many weed
seeds.

MUSKRATS often build their homes on
ﬂoating man-made rafts.

BATS are known to carry as many as
four of their young as they ﬂy through
the air.

GEESE—The question is often raised
why wild geese ﬂy in the form of a letter
V. It seems that one of the largest and
strongest ganders usually takes the lead
by common consent. It is this leader,
ﬂying ﬁrst, that breaks down the air
resistance and makes ﬂying easier for the
following birds.

CHEETAH is supposed to be a mixture
of cat and dog and, like the Missouri
mule or other hybrids, is not supposed
to perpetuate itself.

SPIDERS are members of the scorpion
family.

WHIP SNAKES—It is a popular fallacy
that the whip snake whips its prey or
enemy with its tail.

ELEPHANT’S ears serve not only for
hearing, but also as a cooling system.

BIRDS do not breathe while ﬂying. Be-
tween their muscles are small air sacs,
and the action of ﬂying, forces air into
these tiny sacs. From these sacs the air
is taken to the lungs via small canals.

:13

Any unusual or interesting facts con-
cerning animals will be gratefully re-
ceived. Please mention source. Address
—Animalore, Our Dumb Animals, 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston 15, Mass.

May 191,1,

No Conservation for Them

THE increase in consumption by the

army and navy of paper has made it
a vital war material, to be used sparingly
and conserved. In spite of this, the hornet
goes right on using paper to divide his
nest into sections.

The hornet’s swinging home has inner
walls of paper pulp, a home-made variety
manufactured in the mouths of the in-
sects. Bits of’ wood, ripped from fence
rail or other handy supply, are patiently
chewed until saliva has done the work of
reducing the binding matter.

The rubber shortage has deprived a
lot of people of rubber boots and rain—
coats—but the slate-gray dipper doesn’t
need either. The dipper is a small bird,
somewhat like a thrush in appearance,
who is blessed with water-proof clothing.
The dipper does a lot of diving, for he
lives on a diet of marine insect larvae,
but not so much as a feather is dampened
during his stay under water.

—Ida M. Pardue

“Bones’ Mate, 2c”

4% MOKEY,” the only living creature
Coast Guardsmen found aboard a
tanker that burned following a collision
with a sister ship off the Florida coast
several months ago, has been promoted
by her guardians, crew members of a
Coast Guard ﬁre boat at Port Everglades,
Florida, to “Bones’ Mate, Second Class”
and issued an ofﬁcial identiﬁcation card
giving her occupation as “expert eater.”
The card is signed with Smokey’s “X”
(crossed bones) and is pawprinted.

 

EXPERQS

 
   
 
  
   

 

 

 

" i’ergs.

was? ism-{if}?

 

2 1'3“ 1.5. '

 

 

 

 

 

{3"2’362 iii?

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

Page ’7 6

 

 

 

I Odd Facts in Rime

 

 

 

 

How the Ants Talk
By CARROLL VAN COURT

The ants can talk like you and I,
And tell each other news;

They have a way that’s all their own,
Of saying what they choose.

They put their little feelers on
The ones they want to tell

The news about good food nearby;
That's why they work so well!

4%

Message to Housewives

ERCY” left the bridge of a mer-

chant ship at sea and ﬂew to Lon-
don with a message from the men of the
Merchant Navy to the housewives of
Britain.

Percy, one of the best birds in the
Army Pigeon Service, has been on active
service for two years.

He arrived with the message at Lon-
don’s ﬁrst wartime Service Pigeon show
and auction of birds held in aid of the
Merchant Navy Comforts Service at the
Drill Hall, Buckingham Gate, S. W.

The message stated: “On the eve of
what might prove to be the last Christ-
mas of the war, we men of the Mer-
chant Navy send greeting to the house—
wives of Britain.

“We’ve just brought some beef and
mutton home—sorry it could not be
turkeys this time, but we want you
women at home to know how much we
admire the way you have kept going
through more than four years of war.”

Percy was presented with a gold badge
tied around his neck with pale blue
ribbon.

Looking on approvingly was “White
Vision,” who a short while ago was in-
strumental in saving ten men, the crew
of a Catalina ﬂying boat, which came
down in northern waters.

Beside her was “Winkie,” who recently
saved the crew of a bomber which
crashed at sea.

-—Sunday Dispatch Reporter

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

ANIMAL AND

Hollywood’s newest glamour girl is
"Lassie,” collie star of the movie, "Lassie
Come Home.” Lassie has a ﬁve-year con-
tract at a neat ﬁgure. And the really
funny part is that, while she has be—

come famous as a "she,” she is actually
a (the.,,

The Paciﬁc University plans to send
packets of western ﬂeas to museums
and universities throughout the world,
not only in the interests of entomology,
but as ambassadors of goodwill. The
idea may make nations love each other,
but you can wager your week’s salary
that the Paciﬁc University will be
mighty unpopular with foreign dogs.

A Washington housewife went to the
market the other day and purchased a
hen for the usual purpose. Upon getting
the bird home a mutual friendship
sprang up between her and the woman’s
little daughter, Mary Anne. Now the
hen is called Chicadee, drinks coffee, eats
toast and rides around the Capital
streets in a baby carriage. Each after-
noon she takes a nap with her small
mistress and neither will retire without
the other.

A New York woman, who has a skunk
which she calls Ginger, claims that these
little fellows aren’t ”shiftless” at all.
Ginger’s owner says that she is gentle,
affectionate, obedient and very clean.
She is not at all fussy about her "vittles”
and is compatible with a Boston terrier
and a Persian cat.. According to her
mistress, Ginger also has a rare sense of
humor, loving to scare visitors.

Four branches of the United States
Army collaborated in saving the life of
Bambi, a pony who kicked a jeep some-
where in Great Britain. The quarter-
master, ordnance, medical and veteri-
nary departments cooperated in the job
of X-raying, making a special splint,
administering anesthesia and setting a

badly broken leg.

A few weeks ago Stanley Harbor, in
the Falkland Islands, was the scene of a
celebration that was unique in both its
magnitude and purpose. It was in honor
of a dolphin, that saved a two-year-old
baby girl from drowning, by swimming
her to a rescue ship.

Sixteen dogs of the Army K-9 Corps,
on patrol along the freezing beaches of
Long Island, are now wearing tailor-
made blankets, thanks to a nearby Red
Cross chapter.

~—Jack Pearson

April 1944

Questions
By BURLINGHAM SCHURR

HE GIANT OAK is the creation of a

little acorn. What a strange object,
the acorn! How insigniﬁcant the nut
appears, yet what a mighty force is en—
cased in its shell. Who can tell what that
force is? We do know there is life within
the acorn—mighty, powerful strength,
indescribable energy.

Up through the stem of plants courses
that which paints the ﬂowers in vivid
colors. Each blossom of the various
plants has its own identifying structure
and hue. There is no mistaking the
fragrance of various species of ﬂowers,
and nature does not err in giving to
ﬂowers their respective perfume.

“Consider the 1i1ies”~——the ﬂowers, how
they grow. Partake deeply of the sweet
fragrance of the blossoms, then tear the
ﬂower apart petal by petal and try to
ﬁnd the fragrance. One cannot see it,
but it is there. Slit the stem and try to
get a self-satisfying explanation as to
how the wonderful coloring got into the
blossom. Dig down into the roots. What
is the mysterious force back of it?

Nature performs a multitude of things
that are beyond the understanding of
man. We see in an albino, an occurrence
which bafﬂes science in giving any in-
disputable evidence as to why such a
thing happens. Among a nest of red
squirrels, one may be pure white with
pink eyes. Why is it so? A chipmunk can
be glossy, coal-black without a sugges—
tion of a stripe on its back or a single
hair to show its normal coloring, yet its
brothers and sisters will be just ordinary,
common chipmunks. In screech owls,
there is what is termed a red phase and a
gray phase, two distinct colorings, and
in no way does this denote sex. In the
North American rattlesnake, or Timber
rattlesnake, called also Banded rattle-
snake, there is a black phase and a yel—
low phase, a pronounced difference in
coloring.

But be that as it may, the Law of
Nature carries on year following year,
and the reproduction of life and the
progress of life mystiﬁes man in many
instances, yet man cannot fail to bow to
the fact that the wonderwork of Crea-
tion is for his elevation. May man exer-
cise his privilege to do those things that
will make life better because he lives.

Plant trees, grow forests, protect
birds and wildlife, be kind to animals
and all creatures. Realize how truly
wonderful life is and how glorious it is to.
be a part of the living world!

 




 

April1944 OUR D UMB

i

 

ANIMALS ’77

 

 

I

  
 

““wm

    

. U14
, ~(1141/l/audguluu‘.“ “” ,

3‘ 5 l V. J
.. E \ m ‘1’, .
:- "‘ \‘v --~. . l’ l. 9 ".7? . Q

1—” hf. .—’ r2 -., >4? “ %§iﬂ-¢x~
. B N g - -_\‘ - a. I. ,
s . \ii 'tw- r’ @3026 ’..\ l‘o -
:«. ~ ' - - 1.2 ., ,,v ,
s . \ tr! ﬁvm : , ~ -

Little F awn’s Affection

THAT many wild animals instinctively become tame
and affectionate when placed in association with
human beings has been «demonstrated time and again,
and one instance of such characteristic attitude was
that exhibited by a little fawn toward a young boy.

The boy, whose name is Neil Hollan and who lives at
Fowlerton, Texas, was given the little fawn by his
father, who found the young deer half starved after its
mother had evidently been killed by a mountain lion.

Proper feeding and care soon put the fawn in good
condition, and as it grew older it became devotedly at-
tachedto the boy. It would follow him around the house;
go to town with him; even follow him to school.

So great was the attachment of the deer for its boyish
owner it would even seek out the boy when he was
asleep and climb up on the bed and lie down beside him.

——0. W. Nolan

4%

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

M 1 Hum ill

The above is our Kindness Week plea. Practice it every day of
the year. In case you can't make it out. tip the-page up. holding.
. . . .,._..the bottom otthe pagelevel with the eye. . .. ‘

  
  

\\v

\ - . ‘
“11.4.nniihliiiii\.\'.~

 
 

W

a
f‘é’a‘g
’ I Jul-l

-{ .\‘ ’{zl

‘\‘°..1}’//'.:

l \<
\~.

I Mag,

{\4 a

4n
.’\\ .\

 

Answers to Animal Facts and Animal Fiction

1. True. The elasticity of their body walls and the fact that
they have an extra bone hinging the upper to the
lower jaw permit this. The lower jaw also separates
at the middle of its front edge and spreads apart
sidewise.

The cow that has lost her cud is sick. The illness
may be one of several in cause but the wise owner
employs a veterinary instead of annoying her with
old rags.

A pig likes to wallow in the mud as a cooling measure.
But it much prefers clean mud to the ﬁlth in which
it is too often kept.

Frogs are extremely elusive.

The elephant’s tread is almost silent and it goes
through the forest with scarcely the breaking of a
twig.

Bob Whites sleep in a circle with the heads pointing
out and the tails are together. Then if disturbed
each goes in a different direction—a safety device.
The black bear, unless forced to defend its young,
always prefers to slide away rather than ﬁght.
The dirt taken out from its hole is all carried away
from the front entrance, presumably in the same
big cheekpouches which it uses for baskets to gather
in its Winter stores.

When a toad wants a drink it stretches itself out in
shallow water and absorbs the moisture through its
skin. It would waste away and die in a short time if
kept in a dry atmosphere.

Birds migrate for food rather than to escape the
cold. Insectivorous birds are forced to migrate. It
is only those which have a food supply to their liking
that remain in the North.

The “Hudson Seal” is not from a special kind of seal.
It is the product of the homely muskrat. In prepar-
ing the skins for'commerce the long, coarse outer
hairs are removed, leaving a soft ﬁne fur which is
dyed and brings a big price.

The bird patters on top of the water until it can get
power to ﬂy.

Catnip, a strong-scented herb, is liked by all members
of the cat family.

The turtle drops mother care when she drops her
eggs, and they are the prey of numerous enemies.
The passenger pigeon, the last one of these birds
that went in ﬂocks of millions, died in a Cincinnati
Zoo in 1914. —Bessie L. Putnam

. False.

. True.

. True.
. False.

. False.

. True.

. False.
. True.

10. False.

11. False.

. True.
True.
. False.

15. True.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

Page 56

Trustees of Permanent Funds

John R. Macomber, Chairman of the Board,
First Boston Corporation

Charles G. Bancroft, Vice-President and
Chairman, Finance Com., United Shoe
Machinery Corporation

Charles E. Spencer, Jr., Pres., First Na—
tional Bank of Boston

Directors of the American Humane
Education Society

Dr. Francis H. Rowley, President
Miss Sarah J. Eddy John R. Forgie
William Dana Orcutt Hon. Percival P. Baxter
William E. Putnam Edward G. Fischer
Charles G. Bancroft Charles E. Spencer, Jr.
Walter M. Kendall Eric H. Hansen
Stanwood K. Bolton Victor A. Friend

John R. Macomber

a

The Squirrel’s Message
By LILLIE KRONK LEE

One time I saw a little squirrel
A-sitting on a tree;

He cocked his head and waved his tail,
Then looked right down at me

As it to say—”Well, what’s the news?
And how are you today?

I think this is a jolly world
In which to work and play."

“Oh yes, I work! I'm gathering nuts
To last all winter long;

They’ll feed me when I’m hungry, and
They’ll help to make me strong.

When springtime comes around again,
I'll work and play some more;

50 life will be just lots of fun,
And never be a bore."

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Deceased Friends

Who Remembered Our Societies in
Their Wills
The following left bequests to the Mas-
sachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals or to the American
Humane Education Society in 1943:

Helen Margaret Baker, Cambridge

Arthur M. Briggs, Attleboro

Miss Katie A. Burt, Cambridge

Caroline M. DeWitt, Worcester

Annie Evelyn Greene, Stoneham

Charles Grieves, Amesbury

Louise K. Gunn, Cambridge

Albert C. Hallett, Hyannis

Dr. Gustave Hartmann, Lynn

Walter A. Howes, Boston

Amy M. Hughes, Boston

Rev. James E. Jacklin, Detroit, Mich.

Gertrude Leavitt, Boston

John Mackenzie, New York, N. Y.

Arthur Ellery Mason, Newton

Harriet G. McMullan, Boston

Katharine A. Morey Pinkham, Port-
land, Me.

Rosa C. Piper, Cambridge

Harriet H. Plummer, Swampscott

Katharine B. Read, Harpswell, Me.

Mrs. Anna G. Sargent, Northboro

Alice Sias, Boston

Frances W. Sprague, Boston

Caroline G. Stone, Malden

Arthur R. Whitcomb, Hingham

John C. White, Easton

Nellie Cook Wilde, Randolph

Jennie F. Woodbury, Newburyport

d

March 1941;

@112 iﬁanh nf ﬂurrrg nr

5111mm ﬁtment iﬁragnr

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
ERIC H. HANSEN, Executive Vice-President
WILLIAM A. SWALLOW, Secretary

PLEDGE

I will try to be kind to all living crea-
tures and try to protect them from cruel
usage.

The American Humane Education So-
ciety will send to every person who forms
a Band of Mercy of thirty members, and
sends the name chosen for the Band and
the name and post-ofﬁce address of the
president who has been duly elected, special
Band of Mercy literature and a gilt badge
for the president.

NEW BANDS OF MERCY

One hundred and eleven Bands of
Mercy were organized during January.
These were distributed as follows:

Florida ..................... 40
Virginia .................... 34
Georgia ..................... 33
Pennsylvania ............... 3
Maine ...................... 1

Total number Bands of Mercy organ-
ized by Parent-American Society, 267,493.

SUMMARY OF FIELD WORK

Number of addresses made, 82
Number of persons in audiences, 18,305

Posters for Be Kind to Animals Week

Popular Kindness Posters by Morgan Dennis Offered for the Annual Celebration
Remember the Dates: April 23-29 — Humane Sunday, April 23

One week of intensive effort will produce ﬁfty-one more weeks of kinder treatment of our animal friends.

 

..a.._-..- _—._..~ _..._ -_.._ ._
.— .......

-...__.—._..‘........ .. ..._ ....I

Order Posters Now l

HESE posters are especially adapted

for use in school rooms, club rooms,
stores and various places of assembly.
Their use advertises Kindness Week
better than any other medium.

Plan to promote kindness to animals
now by sending for as many copies as
you can use. Prices are low and will be
sent postpaid:

Single copies .. ...... $ .10 each
Four copies ...... . . . .25
Ten copies ........... .50
Twenty-ﬁve copies .. . 1.00
Seventy-ﬁve copies. , . . . 3.00
100 copies ...... . . . . 4.00

American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Ave., Boston 15, Mass.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 192

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

Press Association, Inc.

SEAGOING HITCHHIKER GETS A LIFT

Astonished crewmen of a United States submarine saw this hitchhiking seal on the
deck when they opened the conning tower after surfacing while on patrol in the

Paciﬁc.

Purging Parasites . . By ERIK SEIDLER

HOEVER made observations of the

habits of animals will agree that
cleanliness is their very soul. Tongue
and paw replace water and towel with
most of the fur-bearers. Water is used
too by some, but never by a fox. I wit-
nessed an incident Where this rule was
violated, where a fox dipped into the
water to its very neck. Another excep-
tion to this rule I was privileged to see
was the antics of some bats. They ﬂy
only at twilight and in darkness. One
day while holidaying at the beaches of
“Lago Maggiore” in Switzerland, I was
surprised to see a ﬂock of these nocturnal
animals ﬂying over the water, at brilliant
noontide, skimming the waves till they
looked for all the world like stones
skipped by a boy at play. One misjudged
his distance, splashed in entirely, and
was in danger of drowning. Amazed at
the performance of these bats, I rescued
the endangered to see What might be
causing this phenomena, and why they
had left their “up-side-down” day-resting
to cavort over the waves.

The answer was not long in coming.
The poor bats were infested with number-
less ﬂeas. They were ridding themselves
of parasites, trying to strip them off as
they skimmed the waves.

Another unique “delousing” plan was
used by a fox at a lonely Czechoslovakian
lake, with myself as an interested spec-
tator. This animal was nearly frantic

with the agony of ﬂeas, and was crashing
through underbrush with customary
stealth forgotten, biting and snapping at
his merciless torturers, trying to ﬂing
them from his coat. Finally, exhausted,
by the heat of the day and his violent
exertions, with tongue lolling out, he sat
looking despairingly at the water. I
expected him to leap frantically into the
lake, but instead he sat meditating his
problem for some moments. His reason—
ing outmatched mine, for as I watched,
he reached down and started plucking
the soft fur from his underbelly. In a
moment he had a ball as large as a ﬁst.
Balancing this delicately on the end of
his nose much like a trained seal, he
stepped gingerly into the water, slowly,
making not the slightest ripple, he waded
out. The water rose up his legs, his
back, his neck, until just his nostrils and
the fur ball were on the surface. Re-
leased by its own buoyancy, the ball
ﬂoated away taking with it all his un-
welcome guests who had sought it out as
a haven from the rising ﬂood. His gentle
immersion gave the parasites time to ﬁnd
this last dry spot, whereas a sudden
plunge would have caused them to cling
with greater tenacity. Retrieving the
ball of fur, I found hundreds of ﬂeas,
attesting to the completeness of the
fox’s cure. The mentality of the fox
went up in my esteem, and I vowed that
I would never do anything to harm any
of these intelligent animals.

October 1944

Recommendation
By MADELEINE BURCH

They came a-knocking at my door——
The hobo and his dog—

A lean and shabby hungry pair
From out the morning fog.

“Have you some chores that we could do
In trade for breakfast here?

My dog and I are traveling through
Without our financier.”

He gave a friendly sort of grin,
And tightened up his belt;

But I remembered front page news
Of how a tramp had dealt

A swift blow here, a gun-shot there,
And left the farm in flames

To pay for country kindness shown;
And it gave place and names

Of all involved except the tramp

Who never had been caught.

“No work!” I said, and stepped back in,
In haste, although I thought

Of how another pair of hands

Just now seemed heaven sent.

The small dog thumped his mongrel tail
And sniffed the bacon scent.

The adoration in his eyes

That watched his master’s face,
Made reason falter while my heart
Stepped up and took its place.

“Come in," I said, ”and bring your pup;
I never yet have seen

A man his dog could love and trust,

Be vicious, cruel, or mean."

@

INDNESS to animals is one of the

surest signs of a high civilization,

and amusement at the sufferings of other

persons is a sign of the lowest type of
intelligence and of primitive stupidity.
—Prof. William Lyon Phelps

 

 

OVER THE AIR

A weekly radio program devoted to ani-
mals may be heard each Tuesday after-
noon at I:l5 over Springfield radio station
WSP‘R—I270 on your radio dial. This pro-
gram is presented by Charlena B. Kibbe
and sponsored by the Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Programs will be as follows:
October

3—"Animals in the News."

October IO—"Emergency Care and Treat-
ment of Animals."

October I7—"True Dog Stories."
October 24—"Animals in General."
October 3I—"Understanding Our

mals."

Ani-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THE NIGHT THAT HE WAS BORN

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

_
H
m
W.
p
.w
n1
e
w
q
a
N

 




 

M arch 1941;

Retired Workers” Fund

E are receiving gifts to the Ameri-

can Humane Education Society as a
trust fund, the interest to be used for the
beneﬁt of ﬁeld missionaries and others
who have spent their lives in promoting
humane education. Already several cases
have come to our attention and are being
relieved in this way. We will welcome
your contribution to this fund.

Please make checks payable to Albert
A. Pollard, Treasurer, American Humane
Education Society, 180 Longwood Ave—
nue, Boston, and specify that the amount
contributed is for the Humane Educa—
tion Trust Fund.

:13

Liberal Annuity Rates
ADVANTAGES

No coupons to clip, no papers to sign and
mail. You simply receive your checks at
stated intervals—that’s all there is to it.

Annuity agreements are frequently used

to provide for one’s or another’s future
years.

It is no experiment. There is no anxiety.
No fluctuations in rate of income. No
waste of your estate by a will contest.

as s s s

A pamphlet giving necessary information
gladly sent upon request.

The Massachusetts 5. P. C. A., or the
American Humane Education Society, 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston 15.

The management of our invested funds is
a guarantee of the security of these Life
Annuities.

RATES OF MEMBERSHIP IN

THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
OR THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.

Active Life $100 00 Active Annual $10 00

Associate Life 50 00 Associate Annual 5 00

Sustaining Life 20 00 Annual 1 00
Children’s $0 75

Checks and other payments may be sent to ALBERT
A. POLLARD, Treasurer, 180 Longwood Avenue.
Boston 15.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

HOSPITAL REPORT FOR JANUARY

At 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston 15

Cases entered in Hospital ...... 918
Cases entered in Dispensary . . . 1,383
Operations ................. 325

At Springﬁeld Branch, 53 Bliss Street

Cases entered in Hospital ..... 252
Cases entered in Dispensary . . . 712
Operations .................. 119

At Attleboro Clinic, 3 Commonwealth Ave.

Cases entered ............... 80
Totals
Hospital cases since opening
Mar. 1, 1915 .............. 229,047
Dispensary cases ............ 574,034
Total .......... 803,081

JANUARY REPORT OF THE OFFI-
CERS OF THE MASSACHUSETTS
S. P. C. A., WITH HEADQUARTERS AT
BOSTON, METHUEN, SPRINGFIELD,
PITTSFIELD, ATTLEBORO, WENHAM,
HYANNIS, WORCESTER, FITCHBURG,
NORTHAMPTON, HAVERHILL, HOL-
YOKE, ATHOL, COVERING THE EN-
TIRE STATE.

Miles traveled by humane ofﬁcers 13,582
Cases investigated ............ 234
Animals examined ............ 3,952
Animals placed in homes ...... 223
Lost animals restored to owners 69
Number of prosecutions ....... 4
Number of convictions ........ 3
Horses taken from work ....... 4
Horses humanely put to sleep . . . 45
Small animals humanely put to
sleep ..................... 1,286
Horse auctions attended ....... 13
Stockyards and Abattoirs
Animals inspected ............ 50,721
Cattle, swine and sheep humanely
put to sleep ............... 62

 

 

tion with any other similar Society.

property. describe the property).

given gladly.

 

TO OUR FRIENDS

In making your will. kindly bear in mind that the corporate title of our Society is "The Massachu—
setts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals": that it is the second incorporated (March.
|868) Society tor the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals in the country. and that it has no connec-

Any bequest especially intended tor the benetit ot the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital. should.
nevertheless. be made to the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals "tor
the use of the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital." as the Hospital is not incorporated but is the
property of that Society and is conducted by it.

FORM OF BEQUEST

I give to The Massachusetts Society tor the Prevention ot Cruelty to Animals (or to the
American Humane Education Society). the sum ot ................ dollars. (or. it other

The Society's address is I80 Longwood Avenue. Boston l5. Mass. lntormation and advice will be

 

 

 

 

 

Page 5’7

Veterinary Column
Panleu-copenia

ERIODICALLY, we receive a great

many questions concerning an illness
in kittens and young cats. The owners
of these affected animals describe symp-
toms of complete anorexia, or lack of
appetite—also of retching and vomiting.
The vomited material is usually bright
yellow or greenish-yellow and of a liquid,
foamy nature. There is marked depres-
sion on the part of the animal and it
seeks a dark place in which tolie or hide.
As the disease progresses, the animal
grows very weak; the hair coat becomes
soiled and rough. Many cats die within
24 to 48 hours after the ﬁrst symptoms
are shown. The owner is often suspicious
of poisoning, especially as other cats in
his neighborhood have been affected in
the same manner.

All these symptoms are typical of pan-
leucopenia, which is also variously called
cat typhoid, infectious gastro-enteritis
and even cat distemper. It is an acute
and extremely contagious disease, affect-
ing cats from about three months of age
to 21/2 or 3 years of age. It frequently
occurs following a minor operation, as
spaying or castration. The disease is
spread from one animal to another by
direct or indirect contact.

The outcome of the disease is usually
unfavorable. The course if very rapid,
frequently not being more than three or
four days. Even in the early period of
the infection and in mild cases, it should
be considered a very serious condition.

As far as treatment is concerned, there
is very little the owner can do at home
to aid his animal. He can keep the animal
warm and in a quiet, clean place. Also,
by force-feedin g small amounts of warmed
milk or warm broth or bouillon, he may
prevent excessive dehydration and starva-
tion. Your veterinarian will treat the
patient with saline and sugar solutions
injected under the skin. This is valuable
treatment, but should be done only by
the veterinarian or under his speciﬁc
direction.

There are available certain preventa—
tive injections which, when given a
healthy, unexposed kitten, are worth
while.

It might be well here to differentiate
between true cat distemper and pan-
leucopenia. Distemper in cats is mainly
a respiratory disease —— affected cats
breathe with difﬁculty, cough, sneeze,
carry a fever and have a discharge from
the eyes and nose. This disease also is
contagious, but the mortality is quite
low; few animals die from it unless some
complication arises. Home care is iden—
tical with that for panleucopenia. The
eye and nose discharges may .be cleaned
away with a mild (2%) boric acid solu-
tion. Always consult a veterinarian.

N. L. G., Veterinary Dept.
Angell Animal Hospltal

 




 

 

 

August 1944

DESCENDANTS OF THE DAWN HORSE
o

HE splendid animal we know today
Tas the horse, is a far cry from the

Dawn Horse, a midget in size, which
roamed the eastern slopes of the Rocky
Mountains some forty—ﬁve million years
ago.

The modern American saddle horse, a
medium-sized equine, stands an average
ﬁfteen and a half hands high, and tips
the scales at half a ton, while thippus,
for so the daddy of them all was named,
was about the size and weight of a large,
tame cat. The largest member of the
family weighed not over one hundred
pounds and stood about twenty inches
high.

thippus made his debut on the North
American continent at least forty million
years ahead of man. He just missed
making the acquaintance of the dinosaurs
and other scaly horrors who took their
ﬁnal curtain during the Age of Reptiles,
the era just preceding the Eocene period,
which thippus helped to usher in.

It seems fantastic that the little horse
survived at all, since he seemed so ill—
equipped to protect himself against
enemies. His teeth were small and of no
value whatever except to chew his food.
His body was well-rounded and his neck
short, but what thippus lacked in
armament he more than made up for in
speed. Probably nature’s ﬁrst attempt
at streamlining, this midget’s only de-
fense was his legs, which at this point
in his development did not as yet end in
hoofs. His feet, with four toes on the
front feet and three on the back, were
well padded in the manner of a dog’s feet,
and gave him the added advantage of
being able to come and go almost without
a sound. Strictly a vegetarian, the Dawn
Horse kept to his own kind, and avoided
the proximity of his enemies. He fed
and watered in the shelter of lush vege-
tation which ﬂourished in the tropical
climate. Thus, when danger came to
him, he took to his ﬂying heels and

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 
   
     
  

or,“ - -
. ,8.
l E
“ﬂ" 49
\ . I {Ill/I l
L \ ‘ R”\j 1‘

soampered away, his toe nails helping
him to cling to rocky, steep slopes where
other animals could not follow.

The Dawn Horse was, for his time, the
fastest thing on legs, and this fact,

a

Animals Know a Friend . . .

IME and again I have made friends

II with animals in the woods and I am

positive they can recognize quickly
whether a person is a friend or a foe.

I was out hiking soon after a twelve-
inch spring snow, when I noticed a little
brown animal running along a recent
automobile track. He was trying des-
perately hard to ﬁnd a place to climb out
of the rut but he seemed too scrawny
and wet to jump or get away from me.
I caught him easily. He had come through
the winter almost starved. I picked him
up by the back of the neck and carried

him to the cabin where I wrapped him in
a dry newspaper and set him down on a
rock in the sun to dry.

For just a few minutes he felt thor—
oughly insulted and drew up his back
and blew at me in a burst of anger. I
talked quietly and kindly to him and he
seemed to know I was a friend and re-
laxed. As I talked to him I managed to
get a hand over to rub his poor skinny
back. This seemed to please him.

I offered him a piece of bread which
he gulped down in a hurry. This was
followed by a peanut butter sandwich

Page 145

The First

- Horse

By IDA M.
PARDUE

l,’ ”7/
: ‘1‘ \®l\\{//
Ill l“ Nil”

 

m. l

coupled with his disposition to keep out
of trouble, made him a permanent resi-
dent of North America until the Ice Age
caused his descendants to migrate to
Asia, South America, Europe and Africa.

By C. E. BELSCHNER

made with graham crackers. By this
time he was feeling quite civil and eyed
me with his little eyes and wriggled his
nose, then settled down in happy content
in the warming sun.

When he was dry I carried him down
the road and put him near a burrow
I had noticed soon after I caught him. I
gave him a chunk of bread to put in
storage and he backed down into the
burrow with his future food, deposited
it; and came back out cocking his head
in a comical way to see if I was still there.
He was quite willing to Visit some more.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 128

 

Symbol of Sovereignty

HE bald eagle has been the symbol of
our national sovereignty ever since
the committee appointed by the Con-
tinental Congress in 1776 ordered a pic-
ture of this bird to be placed on the ﬁrst
seal of the United States of North Amer-
ica, the official name of our new country.
This committee consisted of John
Adams, Thomas Jefferson and Benjamin
Franklin, and it took them six years to
decide upon the design for our ﬁrst seal.
Jefferson and Adams wanted the eagle on
it but Benjamin Franklin was opposed to
the eagle. He wanted to have the wild
turkey designated as our national bird.
He didn’t like the eagle because he be-
lieved that the bird obtained its living
dishonestly. He knew that it customarily
stole the ﬁsh which the osprey would steal
from their watery homes. But Adams and
Jefferson ﬁnally persuaded him to accept
the eagle.

The new seal was decided upon ﬁnally
in 1782, but New York State had set the
eagle before this on its coat of arms and
state flag.

The eagle was ﬁrs-t used on coins on
Massachusetts state money in 1787. A
little later New York State put the eagle
on its half-penny and penny pieces, and
before long the eagle began to be seen on
our national coins where it still appears.

The eagle with wings out'psread is in
the center of the President’s ﬂag, and also
in that of the Secretary of War’s ﬂag and
of a general of the army’s ﬂag.

In the House of Representatives stand—
ing to the right of the Speaker’s chair
may be seen the Speaker’s mace, or sym-
bol of his legal power, upon a pedestal.
This mace is topped by a globe on which
a silver eagle sits.

It is an interesting fact that the family
crest of Washington’s ancestors at Sul-
grave, England, had an eagle on it from
1588 on.

—Norman C. Schlichter

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

ANIMA LORE

SPARROWS—Native American spar-
rows are estimated to save farmers $3 5,-
000,000 a year by destroying weed seeds
and insects.

GOLDFINCH, sometimes called the wild
canary, builds its nest in midsummer.

WILD GEESE have been clocked at more
than ﬁfty miles per hour.

KINGFISHER makes its nest by bur-
rowing a four-incl: bole tbat may ex-
tend twenty feet into a river bank.

COWBIRD travels about on the hides
of cattle, picking off insects.

BLUE JAY never takes twigs for its
nest from tbe ground, but always from
trees.

WARBLERS, when migrating, ﬂy across
600 miles of open water over the Gulf of
Mexico in a single night.

SCARLET TANAGER males are red,
tbe females are alive in color.

DUCKS are identiﬁed, not by their size
or ﬂight, but by their wings.

RED-WINGED BLACKBIRDS begin
their fall migration in July.

TOWHEE, or swamp robin, is a bird
ventriloquist.

LARK—Other names for tbe Meadow-
lark are Common Lark, Old Field Lark,
Field Lark, Marsb Quail, Medlark, Mud-
lark, Medlar and Crescent Stare.

ROADRUNNER is noted for its ability
to ﬁght and kill a rattlesnake.

VULTURES are tbe bigbest ﬂiers of all
birds, yet tbey bave the lowest and most
obnoxious tastes.

SWIFTS have a faster ﬂying speed than
any other birds, having been clocked at
two hundred miles an hour and this on
sustained ﬂight. They can cover 1,500
miles in about seven hours.

BITTERN of our waterways is streaked
in sucb a manner that, when standing
among tbe reeds, it is not easily discern-
ible. This same bird is somewhat of a
ventriloquist.

@

Any unusual or interesting facts con-
cerning animals will be gratefully re-
ceived. Please mention source. Address
——Animal0re, Our Dumb Animals, 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston 15, Mass.

July 1941;
Guest Ants

By JOHN H. SPI-CER

HERE are varieties of tiny ants that
are always found living as guests, or
one might say pets, in the nests of their
larger neighbors. It is a purely selﬁsh
arrangement on the part of the little fel-
lows as they are sheltered and fed with-
out giving anything much in return, but,
on the other hand, they do their hosts no
harm and do not devour their eggs and
young like a lot of the other parasites who
impose on the hospitality of the ant
colonies. The big ants show a friendly
toleration for their little guests and seem
to like having them around.

Typical of these guest ants is a tiny
New England species that makes its
home in a small chamber near the sur-
face of a nest of large ants. Numerous
tiny passages lead into the chambers of
their hosts where they spend most of
their time. There they put in their time
by mounting the backs of the big work-
ers and busily licking and cleaning their
bodies, paying special attention to their
head and mouth parts. The big fellows
enjoy this attention and from time to
time will reward their little guests with
a drop of food. In the wild state the
guest species obtain all their food from
their hosts, an easier way than working
for it, but if they are kept by themselves
in an artiﬁcial nest, they soon learn to
feed on honey and insects like other ants.
Maybe they could make their own living
if they had to. Although they spend most
of their time in their neigh‘bors’ nest,
they still resent any attempt to return
the visits and insist on keeping their own
housekeeping arrangements strictly to
themselves.

The large Wood Ants of Europe also
keep a variety of guest ants which natur-
alists have compared with our own pet
dogs and cats. The two are on the most
friendly terms with the little fellows play—
fully following the big ones around while
they are working. When the big ones go
on a journey, their little pets tag along,
running from one to the other and some-
times dashing between their legs like
playful puppies, or even riding on the
backs of' their good-natured hosts.

@

Dictionary of Dogs

 

 

 

 

=By Aletha M. Bonner;

The Hound

Legions of “ol’ houn’ dawgs" abound,

As, Fox, Wolf, Grey, and the Bloodhound.
A large and rugged type they are, .

The first breeds came from lands afar.

The Greyhounds lead in point of age,

As they date back to Grecian sage.

The Bloodhounds aid the Law full well,

And oft place criminals in a cell.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

Page I 96

“Tilly,” the Terrier

E found her amidst the powder

and rubble of the shell-swept little
town of Tilly-sur-Seulles when we en-
tered it after nearly two weeks of ﬁght-
ing.

That is Why we called her “Tilly” right
away. She was dazed by the shelling
and bombing and she whined and whim—
pered nervously then, but she joined our
party and she is now a veteran of both
the British and American battle fronts
and a. heroine of captured Cherbourg.

A ﬁve-month—old fox terrier, she goes
somewhere or other into the front lines
every day. When we are ready to start
off she comes up to our jeep, puts her
two front paws up and gets lifted in.
She is too small to jump up. Then she
stands with her feet planted on somebody
as we whiz through the countryside.

It’s true she doesn’t like gunﬁre which
sends the tiny stump of her tail droop-
ing, but she never shows any signs of
deserting.

She suffered the thunder of some of
“Monty’s” famous barrages, and has
been strafed by machine guns time and
time again. But her worst taste of ﬁre
happened when she was visiting the
Americans during the siege of Cher—
bourg.

When we reached the American front,
Tilly distinguished herself by going up
to a General who was studying a map
placed on the ground, planting her paws
on the map, and giving him an affection—
ate lick behind the ear.

The General patted Tilly and then
told us where to go to see the last gasp
of the Cherbourg garrison.

We went forward. It was a rip-
snorting, crackling bonﬁre of a battleﬁeld.
Below us the port spouted smoke and
sparks like a railway engine.

We had not gone far when a shell
dropped near us. It killed some men and
wounded others, myself among them. We
forgot about Tilly for a while, until we
saw her whimpering. She had been hit,
too. A splinter had struck her square
between the eyes.

We bathed and dressed her wound. And
she thanked us with her customary lick
behind the ear.

-—London Star

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Dictionary of Dogs
:83 Aletha M. Bonner;
The Poodle

The Poodle-dog has ever borne

The brunt of jokes, and words of scam.
Just why this is ’tis hard to tell,

Since these dogs in strong points excel.
Its colors vary—white, brown, black;
Its pedigree extends far back

To ancient times and ancient ways—
Back to the "good old lap-dog days!”

OUR DUMB ANIMALS‘

ANIMAL AND

Some strange tales have come out of
this current global conﬂict. One man
fell out of his plane and fell back into
it to be saved. This story concerns a
Technical Sergeant who bailed out at a
thousand feet and landed on the back
of a horse. Neither the man nor the
horse was hurt.

A private in the United States Army
credits a monkey with saving his life
three times and claims that the monk
also saved fourteen of his buddies. The
little animal ﬁrst warned the soldier and
his party against poisoned water which
they were about to drink. Next, he
attracted the attention of other soldiers
to a spot where his companion was
buried beneath a wrecked building.
Finally, when the doughboy was wan-
dering in a wild country from a para-
chute landing, the monkey pointed out
the items which were safe to eat.

Last fall a boatman spied a swimming
deer. He rowed toward the animal and
in his haste overturned his skiff. The
water was so cold that the man feared
cramps, so he grabbed hold of the deer’s
horns and was pulled to shore. Some
weeks later, the rescued man spotted a
deer trapped in the ice. He managed to
extricate the animal and dragged him
to shore. Now he is puzzled as to
whether or not this was the same deer
which brought him to shore six
months before. “They did look very
much alike,” he said.

Five hundred colonies of bees have
been put to work in Hagerstown, Md.,
apple orchards this year. Growers claim
that only bees can fertilize the blossom
properly, carrying the pollen from blos-
som to blossom. The wild bees, which

usually perform this service, were killed ,

by a spray used this season.

A Californian owns a canary which
can sing the Star Spangled Banner.
Named "Mickey,” he is a member of
the Red Cross and ﬁve bird societies.

- Did you know:

That the muskrat is not a rat, but an
amphibious rodent which should be
properly termed a "musqiiash” .....
that the elephant walks on tiptoe .....
that the wild duck population in the
United States is only about ﬁve million
less than the human population?

—Iack Pearson

October 1944

Now the Doodle-Bird

EN spite of Himmler, some inhabitants
are getting out of Germany and ar-
riving in Britain by air.

After the doodle—bomb comes the
“doodle-bird”——the Black Redstart. It
has smoke-gray plumage and a ﬁery tail.

(Call it Ruticilla phoenicurus if you
want to be academic.)

It is a common garden bird in Ger—
many but it is not often seen in England.
Now it has nested for the ﬁrst time in
London’s bombed-out buildings. Almost
every day you can see two or three of
these birds hopping among the wild
ﬂowers that have grown up in the old
ruins in the Temple.

——British Information Service

a
By Pigeon P'ost

PIGEONS released from R. A. F.
' bombers that have force—landed dur—
ing raids have brought “all safe” mes-
sages from the crews to home base in
a few hours, instead of the usual period
of several weeks.

The ﬁrst pigeon to carry such a “last
link” message was owned by the King.

Extreme weather, shooting and hawks
make hundred per cent results impos-
sible. Results obtained in the R. A. F.,
however, vary between 86 and 96 per
cent, states the Air Ministry.

Two birds did a 400—mile journey in
10 hours, 10 minutes, while another
R. A. F. pigeon ﬂew over 450 miles in less
than 10 hours.

Despite the supposed general inability
of a pigeon to negotiate darkness, one
bird which was liberated from a ﬂying—
boat at 1 :50 am. returned to its station,
130 miles away, at 7 :20 the same morn-
ing.

Recently a bomber crew, storm—tossed
in the Mediterranean after a forced
landing 50 miles from land, was saved
by a pigeon released from the crew’s
rubber dinghy.

Although they had wirelessed their
position bad weather hampered rescue
operations, and when hope was waning a
pigeon came ﬂying in from the sea.

It carried a message from the dinghy
giving the new position and an air-sea
rescue launch found the men.

—British Information Service

   

No Buzz-Sense

URING the great London blitz, leg-
end had it that it was safe to
follow the cat. If it went, you went, and
most probably the house went, too. It
was thought that cats took a tip from
the gunﬁre and listened for the raiders.
Be that as it may, London cats do not
know where the buzz-bomb is going to
fall. Although intensely sensitive to
danger, natural instinct apparently does

not function for the new weapon.

——British Information Service

 

 

 

 




 

 

March 1944

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Page 51

Seventy-sixth Annual Report of the President
For the Year Ending December 31, 1943

The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention

HE year 1943 marked the seventy-

ﬁfth anniversary of our Society, an
event which was celebrated by an impres-
sive ceremony at the Angell Memorial
Animal Hospital. We were honored by
the presence of our Governor Leverett
Saltonstall, many of our Directors and by
leading professional and business men of
our nation and state.

The readers of Our Dumb Animals may
recollect how the press and the radio
lauded the Society’s work, which only
made us realize how great is our responsi-
bility and how much we have to live up
to. Our members and supporters—good
friends of long standing—did not fail us
during the year, but helped us, in spite of
heavy taxes and war obligations, to carry
the heavy burden of meeting the ever-
increasing cost of preventing cruelty.
Without such help we should not have
been able to carry on our activities in the
various departments.

With twenty-eight staff members now
in the armed forces of our country, in-
cluding some of our doctors, the problem
of ﬁnding competent employees has been
difﬁcult. One method of training new
employees has been the creation of a
school for nurses with an enrollment of
about eighteen students. Twice weekly
classes are held, and the ﬁrst group will

 

I

graduate in May of this year. In the
meantime many ﬁne women have taken
the place of the men, and they are doing
a splendid job in keeping up the high
standards of our Societies.

The work of our prosecuting ofﬁcers in
Boston and of our several Shelters
throughout the Commonwealth is told in
the reports that follow:

REPORT OF CHIEF PROSECUTING
OFFICER FOR THE ENTIRE STATE

L. Willard Walker, Chief Ofﬁcer

Complaints investigated ......... 3,063
Prosecutions .................. 55
Convictions ................... 47
Animals inspected .............. 48,846
Miles traveled ................. 197,919
Horses, injured or unﬁt for service—-
humanely put to sleep ........ 395
Horses taken from work ........ 123

Small animals, injured, diseased or
unwanted, humanely put to sleep 25,834

Animals placed in homes ........ 3,102
Animals returned to owners ..... 874
Ambulance calls ............... 9,673
Animals inspected at stockyards . . 577,101
Cattle, swine, sheep, humanely put

to sleep .................... 395
Service rendered to horses at sum-

mer watering stations ........ 2,255

CANINE MASCOT PRESENTED TO "S. S. GEORGE T. ANGELL"

of Cruelty to Animals

Ambulance mileage, Boston ...... 27,735

Kept under constant inspection:
Slaughter-houses ............. 65
Poultry slaughter-houses ...... 83
Pet shops and chain stores ..... 55

ANIMALS TREATED IN BOSTON
HOSPITAL DURING 1943

Hospital cases ................. 1 0,373

Dispensary (including animals at
Attleboro Clinic) ............ 20,465

Operations ................... 3,43 l

ANIMALS TREATED IN SPRINGFIELD
HOSPITAL DURING 1943

 

Hospital cases ................ 2,445
Dispensary ................... 8, 1 05
Operations ................... 1 , 1 88
SUMMARY
Total cases treated in Boston ..... 29,993
Total cases treated in Springﬁeld . . 10,550
Total cases treated in Attleboro 845
41,388
Cases in Hospital since opening,
March 1, 1915 .............. 245,052
Cases in Dispensary since opening,
March 1, 1915 .............. 563,755
808,807

"Spica." gift of the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital. recently became the brown and black mascot of the Liberty Ship. named in
honor of the founder of our Societies. Shown making the presentation to Captain Nicholas Smar. skipper of the ship. who requested
the dog. is The Honorable PercivalP. Baxter. former Governor of Maine and a Director of our Societies.

 




 

 

 

Aﬁ—

 

 

 

New England
Trust Company

Boston

Administers Bequests
to Charity
Education—Science

Main Oﬂice

135 Devonshire Street
Corner of Milk St.

Back Bay Branch
99 Newbury Street

 

 

 

ORDER NOW

Your Christmas Subscriptions
to

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

A single subscription is $1.00 a
year, but in clubs of ﬁve or more
the price is 60 cts. a year.

Address, OUR DUMB ANIMALS,
180 Longwood Ave., Boston 15, Mass.

 

 

 

KINDNESS BLOTTER

Its appropriate illustration and
Kindness Week message, printed
in red and black on gray blotting
has a universal appeal.

Price, ﬁfty cents a hundred.
Order now from

American Humane Education
Society

180 Longwood Ave., Boston 15, Mass.

 

Humane Literature and Band of Mercy Supplies

For Sale by the American Humane Education Society and the Massachusetts S. P. C. A.

180 Longwood Avenue, Boston 15, Mass., at these prices, postpaid.

Titles in bold-face type are of books or booklets.

Our Dumb Animals, 1943, bound volume $1.50
Colored Posters, 17 x 28 inches, attrac-

tive pictures and verses, six in set . . 1.00
Colored Posters, 17 X 22 inches, eight in

the set . .. .5 cts. each; eight for 35 cts.

About the Horse

Care of the Horse ..................... $1.25 per 100
Humane Education Leaﬂet, No. 5 . .. .50 “ “
The Horses Prayer....... .30 “ “
The Bell of Atri, poem by Longfellow .. .50 “ “

The Shame of It—Mutilating the horse
by setting up his tail. Dr. Rowley.
Fourillus.,4pp. Free

About the Dog
Eulogy on the Dog, by Vest, post-card ..$0.50 per 100

Care of the Dog ....................... .75 “ “
Suggestions for Feeding Dogs . .. .. . . 1.50 “ “
Humane EducatiOn Leaﬂets, Nos. 3 and 4 .50 “ “
“Don” and His Boy Scout Friends, J. P.

Lyons ............................... .50 “ “
The Story of Barry . .. .. .30 “ “
Boots’ Day, play, for two boys and three

girls . .. . .3 cts. each; ﬁve for 10 cts.
Distemper in Dogs, Dr. Schneider ...... Free

About the Bird
The Birds of God, 318 pp., illus. ........ cloth, $0.45
Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 1 and 2.$0.50 per 100
How the Birds Help the Farmer . .. . . . . . .50 “ “
The Air-Gun and the Birds .............. .50 “ “
About the Cat
Care of the Cat ........................ $0.75 per 100
The Cat in Literature . . . . .. .. . . .. . .50 “ “
Do Not Leave Your Cat to Starve ....... .50 “ “
“The Beggar Cat,” post-card, 6 cts. doz. .50 “ “

About Other Animals
Do You Know About This? .............. Free
First Aid to Animals, Dr. Schneider, 8 pp..$1.00 per 100

How to Kill Animals Humanely, 4 pp. . . .75 “ “
Humane Education Leaﬂet, No. 6, Animals .50 “ “
Humane Education Leaﬂet, No. 7, Farm

Animals ............................. .50 “ “
Ways of Kindness ...................... ..75 “ “
Care of Rabbits ...................... .30 “ “
Cruelty at Eastertime ................ .75 “ “
Professor Frog’s Lecture, 8 pp. ......... .75 “ “
Why the Toad is so Useful . . .30 “ “
Hints on the Care of Cows .............. .50 “ “
Directions for the Care of Swine ........ 1.00 “ “
A Wise Fish ........................... .50 “ “

The Jack London Club
Michael Brother of Jerry, Jack London, cloth, 75 cts.
What is the Jack London Club? . .$0.30 per 100
Foreword from “Michael Brother of

Jerry” .............................. .30 “ “
Do Wild Animals Prefer Captivity? Helen

Trevelyan, 4 pp. ..................... .50 “ “
Films, Fakes and Facts, Helen Trevelyan,

4 pp. ................................ .50 “ “

Our Dumb Animals, monthly publication of our
Societies, $1 per year.

Humane Education

Humane Education, by Dr. Francis H.

Rowley .............................. Free
The Relation of the Home to Character

Formation, Dr. Francis H. Rowley . Free
The Animal or the Child, Dr. Rowley . . . Free
Humane Education and Spiritual Values,

Dr. Rowley .......................... Free
A Great Prophecy, Dr. Rowley . . . .. .. .. . Free

Kindness and Humane Education . .. .. .. .$1.00 per 100
Kindness Picture Book, 32 pp. ........... 10 cts.

The Teacher’s Helper in Humane Educa-
tion, 32 pp. .......................... each, 10 cts.

An Early Start to Kindness, Lucia F.
Gilbert, 48 pp For ﬁrst and second .‘
grades...... . ..................,each 10cts.

“Be Kind to Animals” pennants ........ each, 25 cts.

The Humane Idea, Dr. Francis H. Rowley
cloth, 35 cts.

Friends and Helpers (selections for school
use) Sarah J. Eddy . . ... .. . . . cloth, $1.20

The B—K—«T—A—Club, play, 3 cts. each; ten for 25c.

“And a Little Child Shall Lead Them,”
play ...................... 3 cts. each; ten for 25c.

I’ll Never Hunt Again, play, 3 cts. each; ﬁve for 10 cts.
The Best Gift, play ........ 2 cts. each; six for 10 cts.

Let Us Have Pets! play for three boys
and three girls . .. .. .2 cts. each; six for 10 cts.

Humane Exercises ...................... $1.50 per 100

Humane Education the Vital Need, Dr.
Rowley, short radio address, 2 cts. each.$0.50 per 100

Humane Education, What to Teach and

HowtoTeachIt..................... .50 “ “
A Talk with the Teacher ................ .50 “ “
Our Love for Animals, a short radio

address .................. 2 cts. each; 1.00 “ “
A Festival of Tender Mercies . .. .. .. .. . .50 “ “
How to Organize a Society for the Pro- “ H

tection of Animals ... .. .. . .... ... .50

Bookmark, with “A Humane Prayer”. 1.00 “ “
Twenty Years of Be Kind to Animals
Week, Guy Richardson .3 cts. each, ten for 25 cts.
Band of Mercy
“Be Kind to Animals” Buttons

S. P. C. A. ...$100per100
Badges, gold ﬁnish, large, 10 cts., small 5 cts.
“Band of Mercy” pennant ..... ...... .. 25 cts.
Son s of Happy Life (56 pages, words

ofly) ................................ $3.00 per 100
Band of Mercy Membership Card . . .50 “ “

.50 H It

How to Form Bands of Mercy .
Does It Pay, Story of one Band of Mercy .30

(t (‘

BandofMercyRegister................ 10cts.

Please (enclose rcmillan-(‘e with orders for less than .8]

AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
180 Longwood Ave., Boston 15, Mass.

 

 

THIS SPACE
CONTRIBUTED

 

 

 

 

 

 

Since 1832
J. S. WATERMAN & SONS, Inc.

@thertakers
BOSTON—BROOKLINE—CAMBRIDGE

City and out-of—town service

 

 

_==‘.'

 

 

 

 

 

 




Page 218 0 U R D U M B A N [M A L 8 November 1941;
@hr "thumb of ﬂierrg nr

Eluninr humane lﬁragur

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
ERIC H. HANSEN, Executive Vice-President
WILLIAM A. SWALLOW, Secretary

PLEDGE

1 will try to be kind to all living crea-

tures and try. to protect them from cruel
_usage.

The American Humane Education So—
ciety Will send to every person Who forms
a Band of Mercy of thirty members, and
sends the name chosen for the Band and
the name and post-ofﬁce address of the
president who has been duly elected, special
Band of Mercy literature and a gilt badge
for the president.

 

 

Press Association, Inc.

ROBIN BATTLES owN REFLECTION

For three days. this robin carried on a bitter battle with its own reflection. At left. it

gazed belligerently at its distorted reflection in an automobile hub cap. and at the

right. it pecked away at its image. The combat took place in a residential section of
Atlanta. Georgia.

NEW BANDS OF MERCY

Two hundred and ninety—eight Bands
of Mercy were organized during Septem-
ber. These were distributed as follows:

 

Pennsylvania .......... 139
Texas 67
Georgia .................... 48 a
Florida .................... 26
Virginia ............... 16
Vermont .................. 2 .
Total number of Brands of Mercy organ- St t] G I
ized by Parent-American Society, 268,784. rlc y , . ' ' ' ' . By PVT' JAMES H' OGDEN
SUMMARY OF FIELD WORK IF dogs are susceptibleto sore throats chow formation en route to the mess hall.
Number of addresses made, '75 from barking, then I‘know a certain Once, right after such a get-together
Number Of persons 1n audiences, 32,876 little black and white cooker (spaniel that she disappeared. Next morning an M-P-
@ is going to have a lot of trouble for sev- brought her in, having located her on
eral weeks after her military career is the other side 0f the post. For that
terminated. AWOL charge she was restricted to the

Her name—there’s no particular reason area for ninety days. conﬁnement 31'
for it—is Route Step; her military oc— most broke her heart so we paroled her
cupation—ofﬁcial mascot of Headquarters after thirty days Of the sentence had
Detachment, 14th Training Wing, J effer- been served.
son Barracks, Missouri. I’m sure it was the fact that she was

She came into our lives just a puppy, associated entirely with G.I.’s in those
a few weeks old, as a gift to one of the ﬁrst six or eight months of her life that
boys from a neighborhood kennel. And, produced in her one Of the strangest
our fondness for her exceeded her phys- traits I have ever witnessed in. any (108“-
ical growth many, many times. Route Step hated civilians. To her every—

From the ﬁrst we decided she should one of them was an enemy and every
be treated as any other rookie and I am soldier on the poet was a friend even
sure she resented the close check we thOUgh she had never met him previ—
kept on her those ﬁrst several weeks. ously. Having grown up 'With khaki,
She was really quarantined. We opened fatigue uniforms, leggings, GI.I. shoes,
her service record shortly thereafter and and other equipment, anyone not in such
though there were very few entries we a costume was a foreigner-
wanted her to have the credentials of a On catching Sight Of a newsboy Or any
real tr00per. civilian, employee or otherwise, on the

Route Step’s day began at 0530 just post, Route Step would indulge in the
as did everyone else’s, yet I am sure she ﬁercest kind of barking. It took a curt
was the ﬁrst one out of her bed—a command from some G.I. to make her
blanket .in the corner of our supply hut cease such action.

ODD NESTING PLACE —a~wa1t1ng roll call at 0545 in the street. I’ve watched her hold the newsboy at

She was ‘strlctly G.I. and enjoyed left- bay at the head of our street night after
overs.—w1th whlch the boys generously night until she was called inside; nor did
supplied her—after each meal. she rest easily as long as he was in the

At 0745 sheoaccompanied us to work area. This anti-civilian instinct was so
but usually drlfted back to the supply deeply imbedded in her that I am sure
hUt after rece1v1ng a cheery greeting she would have shown the same hostility
from each of the ofﬁcers and enlisted men ., toward any of us had We changed into
ass1gned tothe personnel ofﬁce. Noon— civilian clothes even though she were
t1me found her far out in front of our permitted to watch the transition.

 

Photo, Roland Belisle

 

Railroads should not despair that the im-
provements on airplanes will lose them
customers. tor here the photographer
caught a bird that was apparently not sold
completely on air travel. The nest was
built in the angle of a steam pipe. just
over the wheels of a passenger train plying
between Montreal and Joliette. Quebec.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

October 191,4

Cat and G111] Duet

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

By KATHARINE METCALF ROOF

HE sea gull’s cry is more varied

than one who has never been closely

associated with these birds would
imagine. The common, conversational
call starts with seven or eight notes quite
high in the treble, abruptly descending
two or more octaves without modulation,
somewhat in the manner of some modern
so—called music, to repeat the same note
the same number of times in the bass.
Sometimes they repeat the original notes
in the treble.

On the wing, in ﬂight formation, they
give that cat-like scream that writers
often term the “mewing” of the gulls.
They have another cry that sounds like
mocking, derisive laughter, and some—
times a sort of chirp like a wood bird.
When they are deprived of food, when
another gull reaches a succulent morsel
of dead ﬁsh ﬁrst, they will actually sob,
like disappointed children. These are
usually the young, or, at least, not full-
grown, gulls, who are scared off or out-
stripped by the wise old birds. One often
hears a regular wailing-wall chorus from
these hungry junior gulls.

And while most gulls give more atten-
tion to stealing another gull’s food from
out his beak than to making their own
ﬁnd, there is always a leader who sum-
mons the ﬂock to the spread. After that
it is every gull for himself.

Cats, as most of those familiar with
them have dis-covered, can make a great
variety of sounds, sometimes a whole
vocabulary of them, expressing their
emotions or desires—“Want to get in,”
or “Want to get out,” on a pleading rising
inﬂection—“Want liver” (or ﬁsh) on the
same, a little more peremptory. “Don’t
want liver” (or ﬁsh) on a slightly melan-
choly descending scale, containing the

‘intimation of something—I—do—want,

which you are to experiment with until
you strike the desired article. I had a
cat who inspected thoroughly every pack-
age or article that came in the house,
then would look up with a reassuring
sound, plainly signifying “Okay.”
Agnes Repplier and many famous
Frenchmen have pointed out that none
of us really owns a cat, so I will say,

Deer . . . .

A covey ot quails in the woodlot

And rabbits that play in the stubble:
A woodchuck buttoon,

A chipmunk, a ’coon,

These help all my pleasures to double.

instead, that a large, thick—furred yellow
cat condescends to live in my home. His
greatest ambition in life is to catch,
perhaps devour, a sea gull. He will sit
for hours on the railing of the porch, or
on the sill of a high casement window
facing the beach, and whimper because
the exasperating gulls, strutting the
beach, or playing domestic duck on the
still waters of low tide, will not ﬂy into
his claws. Sometimes he begins coaxing
them with a soft, false sweetness, ending
up by crying bitterly as they refuse to
accept his invitation. Eventually he
hurries off, dramatizing his intention to
ﬁnish one up at once, and runs down to
the beach; but the proposed capture
never comes off.

One demonstration in his association
with gulls is something I have never seen
before. He is a cat with an extraordinary
vocal range. He has a purr with an
over'tone that sounds like two voices. It
begins basso profundo, seemingly from
the roots of his tail, to rise in moments
of delight (liver or fragments of lobster)
to that high pitch known to singers as
alt. In a particular ecstacy of anticipa—
tion or satisfaction it ends in a squeak.
Sometimes he uses two mews of different
timbre, as if in dialogue, several times
deceiving us into thinking that two cats
are in conversation.

He not only talks to the gulls, but upon
occasion, will engage in a duet with one.
We have heard this several times. A gull
will give one of its high calls, and the
cat will tune in on the identical note,
demonstrating what is known in music
as absolute pitch. The gull had doubt-
less cried out on a high note, “I want
food.” And the cat had replied—with
sinister double meaning—“I’m hungry,
too.”

But Cat’s most curious vocal perform-
ance occurred one evening at twilight
after small armies of neighborhood chil-
dren had been exercising throats and
lungs all day. Came a strange continuous
sound—indescribable and unimaginable
——from outside. We thought it was a
prolongation of the children’s twelve-
hour day, and I went out to expostulate

c

A beaver lodge down by the river
And pigeons that whisper and prattle,
But more than the rest,

The ones I like best,

The deer that come in with the cattle.

Page 187

 

with them. But there were no children
in sight. It was some time before I
traced the music to our yellow cat seated
outside the door in the dimming light,
with a crescent moon overhead, his face
turned up to the skies, his mouth wide
open, bringing forth this extraordinary
evensong.

A call from inside, “He’s hungry,”
caused me to invite Cat in. He stopped
singing and stared at me coldly. After
that indecisive moment common to cats
——“Do I or do I not want to go in?”——he
came in with his leisurely slink, but de—
clined his supper. He curled up on my
rather disorderly writing desk, lying on
top of erasers, pens, pencils, etc., a spot
he seems to prefer to a cushion, then
cast a reproachful glance at me, as much
as to say, “See how you spoiled my beau-
tiful inspiration, and it will probably
never come to me again!”

Whether for this reason or others he
has never since serenaded the rising
moon; lbut he still tunes in with the gulls.

By LALIA MITCHELL THORNTON

So shyly they eat at the haystack,

And count me a friend, not a stranger;

Yet softly I go,

For well do I know,

They are poised for leaping from danger.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

Page 234

OUR DUMB

/Wf

 

CURTAIN-SWALLOWING DOG SURVIVES OPERATION

Doctors at our Springfield branch hospital recently performed a difﬁcult operation

to remove six feet of curtain from the intestinal tract of "Ken." ﬁve-monlh-old Gordon

seHer. Af’rer ninety minutes. Jthe surgeons succeeded in ex’rrac’ring a six-foot strip of

curtain which Jthe dog had inadver’renHy swallowed. Shown with Ken. is Nurse Agnes
Fardy holding a section of Jthe removed clol'h.

4%

Meerkats As Pets . . - By JOHN H. SPICER

keep meerkats for pets instead of our
familiar house cats. This is not just
another variety of cat. Its name is a bit

1N many parts of Africa many people

misleading as the meerkat doesn’t belong.

to the cat family at all but is related
instead to the mongoose and civets.

They are found wild over much of
central and southern Africa but there is
said to be no wild animal less suspicious
or more easily tamed. When annoyed or
teased, they will bark sharply like a
young terrier but they are generally very
good tempered and affectionate. These
comical little fellows are the source of
much amusement and pleasure and make
cheerful, lively pets that are much in
demand.

They are somewhat smaller than an
ordinary cat as their slender furry bodies
are only about fourteen inches long With-
out the tail and four or ﬁve inches high.
They have small eyes and ears and a
sharp, pointed snout that projects beyond
the mouth. Their color is mostly gray
with dark and light bands. Their under-
parts are yellowish and so is the seven-
inch tail which has a black tip.

Wild meerkats make their homes in
burrows which are grouped sociably to-
gether in small colonies. They have the
odd habit of all coming out to greet the
rising sun and basking in its ﬁrst rays as
they are very fond of sunlight and heat.
That is why they always locate their
colonies on the open plains Where they
can get as much sun as possible. For the
same reason a pet meerkat will be found
in the hottest, sunniest corner of the
garden and keeps near the stove when in
the house. That, too, is why they are so
fond of crawling into pockets or under
their master’s coat looking for a warm
spot to snuggle. _

Their greediness is their one fault. The
Wild ones eat many kinds of Vegetables
as well as grubs, insects, small snakes,
eggs, small animals and birds or just
about anything that comes along. A
tame meerkat is always begging and will
eat anything it gets Whether it happens
to be good for it or not. Its diet has to
be watched rather carefully if the pet is
to be kept in good health. Otherwise
it will live quite happily in captivity
for years.

ANIMALS

December 1941;

Birds at Home

, HAT are birds’ homes made of ?
All kinds of things, but let’s just
look at a feW of them.

One of the most interesting is made
by the kingﬁsher. You’d expect to ﬁnd
a bird at home in a tree, but the king-
ﬁsher’s callers will never locate him in a
leafy bower. This [bird digs a long way
into the bank of a river, and arranges
an apartment perhaps twenty feet from
the entrance. This one room ﬂat meas-
ures about four inches across, and the
kingﬁsher carpets the ﬂoor with ﬁsh
bones. '

Some bird residences are unbelievably
dainty and luxurious. That of the gold-
ﬁnch, for instance, is exquisitely soft and
tenderly ﬁlled with lighter —than- air
thistle down. Sleeping on that bit of
fluff must be like sleeping on an eider-
down comforter. The hummingbird uses
thistle down, too. It’s hard to ﬁnd these
midget homes, for they are lilliputian
penthouses, seldom larger than an inch
across, and about half an inch deep. So
light are .the' tiny bungalows that the
hummers use guy Wires of spider web to
fasten them to the trees.

Orioles are fond of colors. If they can
ﬁnd gaudy scraps, string or yarn, when
they are building, their hammocks are
sure to he gay With the bright threads
woven ﬁrmly in with hair and grass.

The chipping sparrow likes a certain
building material so well that it has
earned him a nickname. He is called the
hairbird, because he prefers sturdy
swinging homes of horsehair.

—Ida M. Purdue

 

MASCOT FROM PEARL HARBOR

Our Springfield Hospital was. recen’rly visited
by a small black dog whose JI'ag read. "From
Pearl Harbor. Till Dural'ion. 'Sa’r-Tan' Sec.
(C) Mascot." Dr. Howard J. Kopp is shown

examining the dog.

 




 

 

 

LYNCH BROS.
GARRIAGE GOMPANY

ESSEX AND PEARL STREETS
CHELSEA

CH Elsea 3049-3001

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Ready Reference

Nothing is so disconcerting as a
futile search for a particularly
desired copy of Our Dumb Animals.

Perhaps there was an issue that
you just didn’t get around to read;
perhaps you wanted to refer to
some particular article, story or
poem; perhaps you wanted to save
each issue for your children’s educa-
tion. Whatever it was, a copy or
two have become lost.

Here is a chance to maintain a
permanent ﬁle in your private
library, by buying a bound volume
of the 1943 issues. There you will
have ready reference to the many
informative articles on nature and
animal care. It will be an invalu-
able aid to your children in their
school work.

Furthermore, these volumes make
splendid gifts, especially to school
and public libraries. But whatever
the reason, send your order now for
the desired number of bound vol-
umes of

OUR DUMB ANIMALS for 1943
240 pages; 200 illustrations of
animals and birds

Price ......... $1.50
180 Longwood Ave., Boston 15, Mass.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THIS SPACE
CONTRIBUTED

 

 

 

 

 

 

Since 1832
J. S. WATERMAN & SONS, Inc.

@thertakers
BOSTON—BROOKLINE—CAMBRIDGE

City and out-of-town service

 

Humane Literature and Band of Mercy Supplies

For sale by the American Humane Education Society and the Massachusetts S. P. C. A.

180 Longwood Avenue, Boston 15, Mass., at these prices, postpaid.

Titles in bold-face type are of books or booklets

Our Dumb Animals, 1943, bound volume $1.50
Colored Posters, 17 x 28 inches, attrac-

tive pictures and verses, six in set . . 1.00
Colored Posters, 17 x 22 inches, eight in

the set .............. 5 cts. each; eight for 35 cts.

About the Horse

Care of the Horse ...................... $1.25 per 100
Humane Education Leaﬂet, No. 5 .. . .50 “ “
The Horse’s Prayer .................... .30 “ “
The Bell of Atri, poem by Longfellow .. .50 “ “

About the Dog

Eulogy on the Dog, by Vest, post-card . .$0.50 per 100

Care of the Dog ....................... .75 “ “

Suggestions for Feeding Dogs .......... 1.50 “ “

Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 3 and 4 .50 “ “

“Don” and His Boy Scout Friends, J. P.

Lyons ............................... .50 “ ”

About the Bird

The Birds of God, 318 pp., illus. ....... cloth, $0.45

Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 1 and 2.$0.50 per 100

How the Birds Help the Farmer . . . .. .. . .50 “ “

The Air-Gun and the Birds .. . . . .. . . .. . .50 “ “
About the Cat

Care of the Cat ..................... $0.75 per 100

The Cat in Literature ................ .50 “ ”

Do Not Leave Your Cat to Starve ..... .50 “ “

“The Beggar Cat,” post-card, 6 cts. doz. 50 “ “

About Other Animals

Duration Feeding of the Dog and Cat.. Free
Care of Animals During Air Raids Free
Farm Animals During Air Raids ....... Free
Do You Know About This? . .. Free

First Aid to Animals, Dr. Schneider, 8 pp. .$1.00 per 100
How to Kill Animals Humanely, 4 pp. . . .75 “ “
Humane Education Leaﬂet, No. 6, Animals .50 “ “
Humane Education Leaﬂet, No. 7, Farm

Animals ............................ .50 “ “
Ways of Kindness ..................... .75 ” “
Care of Rabbits ....................... .30 “ “
Cruelty at Eastertime ................ .75 “ “
Professor Frog’s Lecture, 8 pp. ........ .75 “ “
Why the Toad is so Useful ............ .30 “ “
Hints on the Care of Cows ........... . .50 “ “
Directions for the Care of Swine ....... 1.00 " "
AWise Fish .50 “ “

Please enclose remittance

Humane Education
Humane Education, by Dr. Francis E.

Rowley .............................. Free
The Relation of the Home to Character

Formation, Dr. Francis H. Rowley . . . . Free
The Animal or the Child, Dr. Rowley .. . Free
Humane Education and Spiritual Values,

Dr. Rowley ......................... Free
A Great Prophecy, Dr. Rowley ......... Free
Kindness and Humane Education ....... $1.00 per 100
Kindness Picture Book, 32 pp. ......... 10 cts.
The Teacher’s Helper in Humane Educa-

tion, 32 pp. ......................... each, 10 cts.
An Early Start to Kindness, Lucia F.

Gilbert, 48 pp. For ﬁrst and second

grades .............................. each, 10 cts.
“Be Kind to Animals” pennants ....... each, 25 cts.

The Humane Idea, Dr. Francis H. Rowley
cloth, 35 cts.

Friends and Helpers (selections for school
use) Sarah J. Eddy .................. cloth, $1.20

The B—K—T—A—Club, play, 3 cts. each; ten for 25¢.
“And a Little Child Shall Lead Them,”

play ...................... 3 cts. each; ten for 25c.
I’ll Never Hunt Again, play 3 cts. each; ﬁve for 10 cts.
The Best Gift, play ....... 2 cts. each; six for 10 cts.
Let Us Have Pets! play, for three boys

and three girls .......... 2 cts each; six for 10 cts.
Humane Exercises ..................... $1.50 per 100

Humane Education the Vital Need, Dr.
Rowley, short radio address, 2 cts. each.$0.50 per 100

Humane Education, What to Teach and ‘
How to Teach It .................... .50 “ ‘

A Talk with the Teacher .............. .50 “ “

Our Love for Animals, a short radio
address .................. 2 cts. each; 1.00

A Festival of Tender Mercies .......... .50 “ “
How to Organize a Society for the Pro- ..
tection of Animals .................. .50 ”
Bookmark, with “A Humane Prayer" .. 1.00 “ “

Twenty Years or Be Kind to Animals
Week, Guy Richardson . .3 cts. each; ten for 25 cts.

Our Dumb Animals, monthly publication of our

Societies, $1 per year.

with orders for less than 31

AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
180 Longwood Ave., Boston 15, Mass.

 

 

Established I839

135 High Street

 

 

A. TOWLE COMPANY
TRUCKMEN

Telephonel HANcock 03 | 2

ICE Years ot Transportation

Boston, Mass.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 106

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

HETHER we believe them or

not, superstitions on different

subjects afford an interesting
topic of conversation. And it is amusing
to know some of the most popular ones.

For countless ages there have been
many legends and superstitions connected
with birds, for instance:

An OWL’S shriek is supposedly a warn-
ing of ill tidings.

For an OWL to hoot is a sign the
weather will change.

OWLS’ eggs scrambled will cure in-
sanity and drunkenness.

To hear the screech of an OWL in the
early morning means the ﬁsh will not bite
that day.

Cage an OWL and some member of the
family will meet with disaster.

To hear a SCREECH OWL is a sign
that an enemy is talking about you, but
if you’ll turn your pockets inside out the
owl will hush. And if you’ll throw a
pinch of salt in the ﬁre this will cause
the backs of your enemies to ache!

For an OWL to be seen in your barn
foretells a crop failure.

The people of Europe believe it is a
good omen for STORKS to nest on the
housetop—no ﬁre will destroy a house
whereon storks nest.

In Bohemia STORKS are believed to
cause ﬁre. And if a stork settles on the
roof of a house, or if twelve storks ﬂy
around it, the family residing there be-
lieve their house will burn soon.

In Europe, people believe the feathers
of a PEACOCK will cause harm to the
person who owns them.

In South Africa, the HORNBILL is an
object of many superstitions. It is be-
lieved if the medicine man kills a HORN-
BILL and throws it into the river, rain
will result. The rain gods send showers
to freshen the stream and wash the pol-
luted waters away to the sea.

For a ROOSTER to crow at night is a
sign of death.

A ROOSTER looking into a door and
crowing is a sign that company is coming.

For a ROOSTER to turn his tail to the

‘door and crow foretells that some mem-

ber of the household is either going on a
long journey, or will die soon.

4.3

June 1941;

Are You

Superstitions

By J EWELL CASEY

PEOPLE OF INDIA CONSIDER PEACOCKS HOLY

BIRDS AND BELIEVE THEY POSSESS MAGIC

POWERS CAPABLE OF HEALING WO-U N'DS AND
CURING DISEASE.

For a ROBIN to chirp near a house on
Christmas Day forewarns an inmate of
that house will die before the following
Christmas.

A ROBIN entering a house .forewarns
of an early and severe frost.

To steal a ROBIN’S egg or kill one
will incur the loss of the left arm at the
Day of Judgment. '

The person who hears the ﬁrst
CUCKOO’S song in the spring will have
good luck.

To see one MAGPIE is a sign of sor-
row, but to see two together, means joy.

For a RAVEN to ﬂy over the house
is an omen of sickness or death.

If an ALBATROSS follows a ship,
sailors believe a curse will be on their
ship throughout the remainder of that
voyage.

For a PETREL to near a ship is a
forewarning of a storm.

BLUEBIRDS are symbolic with hap-
piness. -

LARKS are symbolic of gayety.

LOONS are symbolic of insanity.

OWLS are symbolic of wisdom.

BATS are symbolic of hypocrisy.

DOVES are symbolic of parity.

PEAC‘OCKS are symbolic of vanity.

GEESE are symbolic of silliness.

PHOENIX BIRDS are symbolic of
immortality.

Songs of Canine World . . . . By JASPER B. SINCLAIR

ERHAPS the dog has not inspired

the song writers of this or any other

nation to the same extent as the
month of June or the harvest moon.
Nevertheless, man’s best friend can claim
his share of songs.

You may recall, if you can remember
that far back, the lyrical question of
childhood days, “Oh Where, Oh Where
Has My Little Dog Gone?”

One of the most familiar American
marches tells bandmaster Arthur Pryor’s

story of “The Whistler and His Dog.”
Nor must we forget Stephen Foster’s
classic that mourns the passing of “My
Old Dog Tray,” a song that had its in-
spiration in real life.

One of the popular songs of the nine-
teenth century, forgotten now in the ﬂood
of modern songs, was simply titled “The
Bull Dog.” It is a reminder that Sir
Harry Lauder popularized the song about
“The British Bull Dog” in the days of
World War I.

Robert Burns wrote about “The Twa
Dogs” in that native Scottish dialect that
is wholly understandable only by his
own people. It contains, by the way, the
line about “a gentleman and a scholar,”
so often quoted by people not at all
familiar with its source.

Song tributes to dogs cannot equal the
almost endless collection of prose stories
about the members of the canine family,
but they have at least not been altogether
forgotten by our song writers.

 

 

 




 

Alarch 1941;

Massachusetts’ Governor Saltonstall, as
well as by proclamations of governors of
other states, and mayors, state commis—
sioners of education and other ofﬁcials.
Radio stations and newspapers were re—
plete with announcements and stories
of the celebration. In all, nine special
programs were presented over the air by
the Massachusetts S. P. C. A. through the
courtesy of radio stations WBZ, WCOP,
WMEX, WEEI, WORL.

As has been the custom for many
years, a poster contest was held, open to
school children throughout the State. A
splendid response was received as indi—
cated by the over ﬁve thousand posters
entered from 390 schools in 152 cities
and towns. The judges awarded 532
gold pins, 642 silver pins and 1,089 sub-
scriptions to Our Dnmb Animals.

Our other contest for photographs of
animals was also a great success, bring—
ing approximately 500 prints as entrants
in the competition. The awards amounted
to $95.00 in cash, with ten additional
prizes of subscriptions to Our Dumb
Animals.

Our Society distributed during this
period 3,000 national posters, 11,300 Hu-
mane Exercises, 13,450 blotters and 2,000
reprints from our magazine.

One of the highlights of the Week was
the illustrated lecture by Thornton W.
Burgess, entitled “Mother Nature’s
Friendly Folk.” This was given on
Humane Sunday and attracted a large
audience at the Boston Public Library
lecture hall.

Humane Films

The Society’s ﬁlms, “The Bell of Atri”
and “In Behalf of Animals,” continued to
ﬁnd popular approval. In addition to
showings in Massachusetts, the ﬁlms
were displayed in Michigan, Texas, New
York, New Jersey and New Hampshire.

Literature Issued

The printing of leaﬂets and other lit—
erature continued throughout last year,
when over a hundred thousand separate
pieces were distributed throughout the
nation.

FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

a

Honorary Members

Mrs. Julia M. Baldwin, Chicago, Ill.

Miss Louise de St. Hubert Guyol, New
Orleans, La.

Mrs. Alice W. Manning, Istanbul, Turkey

Louis Pareja Cornejo, Quito, Ecuador

Mrs. A. D. McDaniel, South Tacoma, Wash.

Ex-Governor A. V Donahey, Columbus,
Ohio

Dr. Willis A. Sutton, Atlanta, Ga.

Lyndes‘ay G. Langwill, Edinburgh, Scotland

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

 

CHILDREN AID IN DRIVE FOR DISCARDED BLANKETS

During a recent cold wave. these two attractive little ladies lost no time in respond-
ing to the public appeal of our Society for discarded blankets and old cotton cloth for
use in the cages ot the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital. in order that the sick and
iniured animals might receive maximum comfort and sanitation during period of hos-

pitalization.

Shown. left to right are: Dr. R. H. Schneider. member of the veterinary

staff. accepting gifts presented by Susan Dolan (center) and her sister. Patsy. "Snittles."
lovely cocker spaniel patient at the Hospital. looks on approvingly.

@

OFFICERS OF THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
FOR 1944

President

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY

Executive Vice-President

ERIC H. HANSEN

Vice-President

CHARLES G. BANCROFT

Honorary Vice-Presidents

His Excellency Leverett Saltonstall, Gov-
ernor of Massachusetts

Ex-Governor Channing H. Cox, Boston

Ex-Governor Percival P. Baxter, Portland,
Me.

Bagg, Mrs. Aaron 0., Holyoke, Mass.

Baldwin, Mrs. M. W., Sioux City, Iowa

Barton, Mrs. Bolling, Pikesville, Md.

Beebe, Ethel Fairmont, Mount Carmel,
Conn.

Boyce, Aline J ., Woodstock, Vt.

Clarke, Miss Frances E., New York, N. Y.

Crossman, Mrs. Howard A., Hampton Falls, 7

N. H.
Dethloff, Walter J ., Albany, N. Y.
Dow, Mrs. E. 0., Chicago, Ill.
Downey, Walter F., Boston, Mass.
Edge, Mrs. C. N., New York City

Eveeritt, Mrs. Ellen Knapp, Escondido, Cal.

Frederick, Mrs. O. F., Santa Monica, Calif.

Friedrichs, Charles W., San Francisco, Cal.

French, Marie, St. Joseph, Mo.

Hardy, Mrs. Richard, Chattanooga, Tenn.

Johns, Charles R., London, Eng.

Kindel, Mrs. Charles M., Grand Rapids,

Mich.

Krahl, Mrs. Dorothy F., Chicago, Ill.

Landes, Bernard 8., Colorado Springs, Colo.

Manning, Mrs. Alice W., Istanbul, Turkey

Orcutt, William Dana, Boston

Packard, Bertram E., Augusta, Maine

Peck, William R., Holyoke, Mass.

Phillips, William T., Philadelphia, Pa.

Rathom, Mrs. John R., Providence, R. I.

Ravenscroft, Mrs. M. D-., Santa Barbara,

Calif.

Saunders, Miss Marshall, Toronto, Ontario

Schleck, Leo P., Madison, Wis.

Schraf‘ft, W. E., Winchester, Mass.

Smith, Efﬁe E., San Francisco, Cal.

Sweeney, Mrs. Frank, East Haverhill, Mass.

Wentzel, Dr. Wm. F. H., Pittsburgh, Pa.

Williams, Charles A., Monte Carlo, Monaco
Treasurer: ALBERT A. POLLARD
Secretary: WILLIAM A. SWALLOW

Counsel: PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY

& STOREY

 




 

 

 

The cavalry is s+ill an impor+an+ par+ 0+ +he U. 5. Army: we see +he soldiers and +heir moun+s

. U. S. Coas+ GuardsmenI members of +he moun+ed beach pa+r0ll ford an inlel' in a pa+rol 0+ +he Wes+ “
homeward bound wi+h ano+her day of +raim omp|e+ed a+ F0r+ Blissl Texas.

Coas+. There are many dangerous phases +0 +his du+y, including s+0rms and nigh+ pa+r0ls. as Coas+~
Guardsmen keep wa+ch for enemy agen+s a++emp+ing +0 land on isola+ed beaches. ships in dis+ress and.
Two U. S. Coas+ Guardsmen 0n moun+ed beach pa+rol ' o+her emergencies.

pause +o admire +he moon rising over +he Paciﬁc.

 

 

 

 

DSaddle and blanke+ in hand. Priva+e Eugene
Hanks, U. S. M. (3.. member of Hawaiian de-
+achmen+ of Horse Marines. prepares +0 leave

+he s+abl'e.

 

 

 

Horses

I i " " . . i i i. i . Before l'urning his moun+ loose +0 graze. a member of +he Hawaiian
MECHANIZED war though this may be, the _ » g-. . ' V - v . , ,- , _ 5 g V

MARINE CARES FOR HORSE

de+achmen+ of Horse Marines gives +he animal a +h0rough washing.
horse, once again, has been called upon to do its

share, both at home and abroad, as pack animal
and as saddle horse.

That the horse, asa pack animal, is of enormous im-
portance is shown by the fact that these animals are often SCHOOL FOR HORSE MARINES
used to carry supplies and ammunition for the infantry p|a+oon Sergean+ Gordon Polin. u, 5, Marine Corps. holds s
OVCI‘ country Where Wheeled trafﬁc is impossible. t is +he care 0+ horses +0r Horse Marines in Hawaii.
estimated that each horse can carry a 320-pound load, a
company having the carrying capacity of 27 tons.

In all branches of the American armed forces Where
horses are used, classes have been set up to teach the care
of these animals. One of these classes, a school for Horse PHOTOS BY COURTESY OF
Marines, is shown at the right. u. s. Coas+ Guard

In order to patrol the far-ﬂung coast line of our coun- U. 5. Marine Corps
try, the U. 3. Coast Guard ﬁnds the horse invaluable in U. 5. Army Signal Corps
patrolling beaches, Where a constant Watch is kept for
vessels in distress and for landings of spies or saboteurs.

.\\\\\\\\\\N WA

 

 

 




 

 

 

December 1944

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

When it comes to speed, ostriches are among the swiftest—

much attention that few people real-

ize how fast many birds can run.
Some birds are unable to ﬂy because
their wings are too rudimentary to sup-
port their weight. Such birds have found
escape from their enemies difﬁcult and
many like the moas and elephant birds
or rocs are now extinct, but the emus, the
cassowaries, the rheas, the ostriches and
the kiwis, although ﬂightless, are still
to be found. Among these the ostrich is
one of the swiftest runners. Job, the
ancient prophet, says of the ostrich,
“What time she lifteth up her wings on
high she scorneth the horse and his
rider.” With a stride between twelve
and twenty-ﬁve feet, an adult ostrich
can easily attain a speed of twenty—ﬁve
miles an hour and when put to the test

THE ﬂight of birds has attracted so

The Horse . .

How strong, how proud,
With flowing mane;

His tawny hide

Against the rain.

His tawny hide

Against the sun

Is flecked with sweat
When work is done.

Birds That

can double that rate but not for long-
sustained periods.

The rhea, or South American ostrich,
can also run very rapidly. Hudson says,
“When running the wings hang down,
like those of a wounded bird, or, one wing
is raised and held up like a great sail.”
The natives hunt the rhea with the bola
which they attempt to wind about the
bird’s legs, since it is almost impossible
for the mounted hunter to overtake them.

Recently some very interesting experi-
ments have been made by the United
States Fish and Wildlife Service in clock-
ing the speed of common North American
birds. Ring neck pheasants proved to
be the fastest sprinters among the birds
tested. One bird was clocked at 21 miles
an hour, which is just a bit better than
a runner doing the 100-yard dash in

@

How gentle, too,
And full of grace;
Intelligent

His noble face.
With patient eyes,
And tender care——
True friend to man,
With much to bear.

Page 229

Publishers’ Photo Service, N. Y.

Run

By LAURA ALICE BOYD

10 seconds ﬂat. For distances ranging
from 50 to 100 yards records of 8 to 15
miles an hour were made by other
pheasants.

For distances of 50 yards chukar par-
tridges ran at the rate of from, 12 to 18
miles an hour; Hungarian partridges
ran at a 9.-mile rate; Gambel quail at
11 and 14 miles and-the killdeer at 5 miles.
In spite of his name the road runner did
not prove to be any ﬂeeter than the other
birds. One was timed for 50 yards at
12 miles an hour and another, over a
distance of 300 yards, ran at the rate
of 15 miles.

These recorded speeds should not be
taken as representing the average speed
of which the birds may be capable. They
do serve, however, to call attention to a
new and interesting ﬁeld of study.

By SALVATORE MARSIGLIA

How slow—how swift;
How glad to do
Whatever man
Compels him to.

Yet like real friends
Of noble birth,

How little known

ls its real worth.

 

 

 




 

 

 

THE WAYS OF PEACE

By ALEXANDER J. STO‘DDARD
Supevihtendent of Schools, Philadelphia, Pa.

OME day this war will end and we shall try again to make
peace. But this war will not end as the last war ended.
This is a world war.

Whether the end comes in a certain second, or during a cer-
tain day, or month, or year, what a glorious time it will be when the
boys come home again! Millions will dance in the streets for joy.
They will tear up a billion books and shower the confettied paper
down from skyscrapers and the clouds; they will tie any tin cans
that are left to any old cars that may still be able to run and drive
hilariously down the main streets of a thousand towns and cities; they
will dash wildly along the marching columns of returning soldiers
throwing roses in their paths and kisses to their lips. They will shout
and sing until the piled—up chorus of ecstasy mounts to the throne

of God!

Other millions over the world will stand numb and silent, too
tired to weep, as ”if in a trance, unable to comprehend. Whether
laughter or tears or merely dry-eyed staring into space, never be—
fore will so many have welcomed the end of a war, and never before
will so many have suffered and lost so much to make it come true.

The war will end, but will peace come? Always the human race
has made the fatal assumption that peace naturally follows war,
that the alternative to war is peace.

What has followed every war throughout the ages? Not peace,
but an armistice which should not be confused with peace. The time
may be short or long during which an armistice lasts. But peace has
the characteristic of permanence—it abides as do faith and hope and
charity. We must not make the mistake of assuming again this
time that the inevitable consequence of war is peace. In the 1920’s
and 30’s we thought that a peace had been made. We did not real—
ize that we had run out on what we had made, and it turned out to
be only one more in a seemingly endless series of armistices.

If we are to have peace, we must win it even as war must be won.
We could call a million witnesses to this fact. The lives of the saints
and all who have died that we might have life more abundantly, pre-
sent a mountain of testimony that the ways of peace call for as much
real courage, noble sacriﬁce, high adventure, and a willingness to die
for a cause, as does war.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

Page 7 8

(Ellie Tﬁanh nf ﬂirrry nr

3111mm iﬁumanr Ensign»

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
ERIC H. HANSEN, Executive Vice-President
WILLIAM A. SWALLOW, Secretary

PLEDGE

I will try to be kind to all living crea-
tures and try to protect them from cruel
usage.

The American Humane Education So-
ciety will send to every person Who forms
a Band of Mercy of thirty members, and
sends the name chosen for the Band and
the name and post-ofﬁce address of the
president who has been duly elected, special
Band of Mercy literature and a gilt badge
for the president.

NEW BANDS OF MERCY

Two hundred and twenty-ﬁve Bands of
Mercy were organized during February.
These were distributed as follows:

Pennsylvania .............. 116
Virginia ................... 44
Georgia .................... 33
Florida .................... 30
Maine ..................... 1
Rhode Island .............. 1

Total number Bands of Mercy organ-
ized by Parent-American Society, 267,718.

SUMMARY OF FIELD WORK

Number of addresses made, 98
Number of persons in audiences, 23,075

1%

The “Oranges”

By JEMIMA REMINGTON

HE TROUBLE is that no one would

believe it, without a photograph. But
we assure the general public, believe it
or not, that we saw it with our own eyes.

It was early morning and we were out
for a stroll, on the farm. Across the
driveway stalked Honey, our bachelor
cat, big, blasé and golden. Behind him
marched D’Arcy, tabby ﬂapper; behind
her ran two mice, all in single ﬁle about
two feet apart. The mice, with tails
straight out, were apparently hurrying
home from a night in the oat ﬁeld across
the way. It looked like an organized
procession, but no one of the participants
paid the slightest attention to the others.
Each one was attending to his or her
own business in the world and for the
time being was alone. Probably the mice
considered each other. They may have
been husband and wife, or perhaps en-
gaged, but they had learned, in their
short careers, that the end of the proces-
sion is often the safest spot.

Bunnie, the orange Barn Belle, pre-
sented the farm with four, beautifully
marked kittens. Syrup,—also orange in
color, and who leads a gay Lothario
sort of life, admits that they resemble
him but further than that he will not
go.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

When the Guest — who sometimes
wears a bright blue housedress and some-
times a bright green camping suit—goes
walking up the lonely and lovely road,
the kittens, dubbed the “Oranges,” in-
sist upon going, too. If she slips away
without them she is apt to hear wild
yells behind her, which mean, “Wait for
us! Wait for us!” On the blue dress
evenings the affair closely resembles an
Orange Walk. On the green suit eve-
nings it presents the colorful gaiety of
a circus procession. Not the least enter-
taining part of the fun is the astonished
expressions on the faces of the motorists
who very occasionally traverse the road.
The masculine travelers look as if won—
dering if they really see it, while the
ladies view the show with delighted grins.
Under a little moon that curves like a
Gurkha’s knife in the sky above the dark
trees, the “Oranges” are at their best.
They are in their native element, leaping
high in the air one moment, stalking like
tigers the next; shinnying up trees to
pose like miniature pumas before sliding
down again. The exquisite call of a whip-
poorwill; the tremulous cry of a ’coon
looking upon forbidden corn; the cling-
clang of dist-ant cowbells; the hoot of an
owl —— all these sounds are a perfectly
harmonious accompaniment to the gay
abandon of the dancing, orange sprites.
They are part of the dim mystery of the
night, in color harmony with the golden-
rod and the drifting yellow leaves. Now
and then a soft fur coat brushes a bare
brown leg and a brief purr say-s happily,
“Aren’t we having a lovely time?”

At the gate the group breaks up, the
Guest to go to bed and read, the kittens
to go on mysterious prowls of their own,
that humans wot not of. It is useless to
question them in the morning. They
never tell.

@
Friend of All

OUISA M. ALCOTT, the famous and .

well-liked author of “Little Women,”
“Little Men,” and other favorites of boys
and girls the world over, was very fond
of all animals. This love for all depend-
ent creatures was instilled into her na-
ture early in life, in a home environment
which did not permit the household use
of any meat at all as food.

When she was a small child, Louisa
forgot any loss, pain or disappointment
as soon as one of her pets attract-ed and
diverted her attention. What she liked
best about her farm home were the ener-
getic ducks, the gentle mild-eyed cows,
the pigs and other farm animals. She
also made friends of many birds.

A story of Louisa’s little girl days de-
scribes an occasion when she wandered
some distance from home and became
lost. Considerable time passed and she
discovered that she could not ﬁnd her

April 1941;

way back to her mother and safety. In-
stead of becoming frightened or hyster-
ical, as most other children would, Louisa
sat down in the doorway of a building.
There, curling up comfortably, she fell
asleep, her head resting with complete
trust on the shoulder of a big, friendly
dog whom she had never seen before.
And even though darkness came on by
the time she woke, Louisa was unafraid
as long as she had the consolation of her
canine protector’s presence, stranger
though he was.

Later, when she was located she was
still curled up safely and trustingly be-
side the strange dog.

But as much as Louisa Alcott loved
dogs and all dumb creatures, her es-
pecial favorites were cats. She had a
great admiration for them which per-
sisted throughout her lifetime. She
would stop to pet a grimy stray cat with
as much ardor as she would bestow on
the most carefully groomed and reared
household pet. It took an understanding
heart like hers, to realize that the for-
gotten strays were in even more need of
demonstrations of affection than were
their more fortunate fellow felines.

—Mary A gncs Colm’llc

ﬂ .

Pets

Though cannons roar, and battles rage,

Rob Roy is singing in his cage;

While shells explode and airplanes drone,
The collie gnaws his ancient bone.

And subs on deadly mission tare
But Puss is purring in her chair.

Things far away no grief begets
And war means nothing to my pets,

But since I am of them so fond,
l’llgo and buy another bond.

—LALIA MITCHELL THORNTON

 

 

OVER THE AIR

A weekly radio program devoted to an-
mals may be heard each Tuesday after-
noon at |:|5 over Springﬁeld radio station
WS'PR—l270 on your radio dial. This pro-
gram is presented by Cha-rlena B. Kibbe
and sponsored by the Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Programs will be as follows:
April 4—"Animals in the News."

April ll—"Emergency Care and Treat-
ment of Animals."

April |8—"True Dog Stories."
April 25—"Animals in General."

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 168

King of the Birds

HIGH one of the feathered crea—

tures is the king of the birds?
The eagle, of course, is the ﬁrst one to
come to mind as that symbol of freedom
is usually looked on as the king of the
bird world. But that title has also been
given at times to other birds as well,
birds a whole lot smaller than the eagle.
How about the kingbird, for instance,
who was given this name because he is
so completely the master of anything
that ﬂies? He can defeat anything that
comes along in the way of crows or
hawks and takes the greatest delight in
such battles. Possibly he could even put
an eagle to ﬂight if one of them came
over his home orchard. At least one can
be quite certain that the kingbird would
be Willing to try.

Who would ever think of the wren as
king of the birds? Xet according to an
old tradition it was at one time and the
wren has been called king in nearly every
European language. This quaint old
story says that a general assembly of all
the birds had agreed to accept as king
the one wno could fly the highest into the
sky. The contest was held and the eagle
appeared to be the Winner. Then a jubi-
lant burst of song was heard from aloft.
The wily wren had hidden in the eagle’s
feathers and been carried up as a stow-
away. Now he was perched on the eagle’s
back so that no matter how high that
big bird soared, the wren was always
above him. He won the contest but the
angry eagle struck the little schemer such
a blow with his wing that since then
wrens have been able to ﬂy no higher
than a hawthorn bush. A German version
of the story makes it the stork instead of
the eagle who was outsmarted in this
fashion.

Ask some naturalists which bird ought
to be king and they might name the
raven. This bird which the anc1ent V1-
kings adopted for their emblem is the
biggest and wisest member of the crow
family. In the modern system of bird
classiﬁcation used by science the raven is
ranked quite near the top and some bird
students say that if its intellect were
taken into consideration too, it would be
placed at the top of the scale, a true king
of the birds. Perhaps it is just as well
that he isn’t. The raven is the subject of
more bits of tradition, folklore and super-
stition in both the old world and the new
than any other bird but practically all
these old stories give him a reputation as
black as his feathers. Modern natural-
ists also agree that he is a wily old sin-
ner. A true king should set his subjects
a good example and this is something the
raven could never, never do.

—John H. Spicer

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

ANIMA LORE

LLAMA—The South American llama
expresses anger at its master by spitting
at him.

INSECTS—There are about 624,000
types of insects in the world.

RAIL BIRD—The yellow rail bird, a
good swimmer, generally swims only at
night.

PIGEONS, world-wide in distribution,
are most plentiful in the Malay Penin-
sula and surrounding islands, where ap-
proximately 120 of the 300 known spe-
cies are found.

BIRDS—Over 1,000 species of birds are
known in New Guinea.

TURTLES—Green, loggerhead and
hawkbill sea turtles are found in tropi-
cal waters north of Australia; adults
weigh from 400 to 1,000 pounds and all
three are edible, although the hawkbill

is not popular as food.

AMERICAN EAGLE has adapted its
life to the treeless Aleutian Islands by
building its nest on the ground.

BALD EAGLE—When this bird loses its
mate, it remains a widower for the rest
of its life.

WOOD DUCKS, Mallards and probably
others can and do eat and digest whole
hickory nuts.

BEETLES—Some species of wood-boring
grubs are said to live more than thirty
years before changing into the adult
beetles.

EARTHWORMS—One of the smaller of
this species found in the eastern part of
this country, as far north as Washing-
ton, produces a luminous mucus when
disturbed. This mucus gives off a
greenish yellow light.

FIREFLIES—Even the eggs and pupae
of some species of ﬁreﬂies are luminous.

BLIND WORM is not a worm at all but
a species of lizard.

4%

Any unusual or interesting facts con-
cerning animals will be gratefully re-
ceived. Please mention source. Address
—Animalore, O'ur Dumb Animals, 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston 15, Mass.

September 1944

Animals of the Service

IRDS and animals have not been for—

gotten in the collection of insignias
and nicknames that are related to the
various branches of Uncle Sam’s armed
services.

An Arctic seal is featured on the in—
signia of the Army’s Alaska Department,
the 81st Division depicts a black cat,
the 92nd Division a buffalo and the 104th
Division the head of a gray wolf. The
101st Airborne Division has an eagle’s
head and the Philippine Division the
head of a water buffalo as its ofﬁcial in—
signia.

In the ﬁrst World War most of our
Army divisions were better known by
their nicknames than their numbers.
Among them are a few reminders of our
native American animals.

Thus the 14th was the Wolverine Divi—
sion, the 86th the Panther Division and
the 81st the Wild Cat Division. The 92nd
was the Buffalo Division while the 86th
was the Black Hawk Division.

The American bald eagle, naturally
enough, is used in a variety of insignias
of rank in both the Army and Navy, not
the least of which is the eagle perched
on the colonel’s shoulders.

Nor can we forget the Army mule and
the Navy goat that have been the tradi—
tional mascots of Uncle Sam’s ﬁghting
forces for more years than the oldest
doughboy or sailor can remember.

~——Jasper B. Sinclair

 

U. S. Coast Guard Photo
SEA DUTY AHEAD

This Spitz puppy is the pet of Chieic Motor
Machinist's Mate Neil Anderson. of Goshen.
N. Y.. but as his master was at sea when
the dog arrived in Boston. SPAR Lillian
Donnell. of Toledo. Ohio. volunteered to

care for him until Anderson returned.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 101;

 

Official K-9 mascot of the men in the

Glider Crew Training Centerl Bowman
Field Air BaseI LouisvilleI Ky.I "Mama Dog."
is going to rear a flying family. HereI ready
to receive instructions. she is shown with
her three tive-weeks-old puppies in a glider.

d

The Calico Dog

1N these days of limited manpower and
the vast problem of delivering an in-
creased amount of mail, it is too bad there
are not more dogs like “Dorsey,” who
from 1883 to 1886 was the regular mail-
carrier between the frontier towns of
Calico and Bismarck, California.

Dorsey, a large, black-and—white-coated
shepherd, became famous because of his
devotion for two men. One was his
master, Jim Stacy, Postmaster of Calico,
and the other was Stacy’s business part-
ner in a mine located at Bismarck, some
three miles away.

Dorsey was careful to give each man
an equal share of attention, and so be-
came a familiar ﬁgure on the road
between the two towns. Accordingly,
Stacy decided to send a message to his
friend by Dorsey one day, and a short
while later the dog trotted into Bismarck
and delivered a note. .

The venture was such a success it soon
became a regular practice, and from this
experience Dorsey was graduated to the
rank of regular mail—carrier from one
town to the other. Such was Dorsey’s
intelligence that no one dared to lay a
hand on the dog while he was engaged
in the course of duty.

Dorsey’s fame spread to such an extent
that when Stacy took him on a trip to
San Francisco, the city turned out to see
the canine postman.

—Ida M. Pardue

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Aerial Canine
By RAY FREEDMAN

CUB” is a collie attached to the
Latrobe, Del., airport. Her whole
charmed life has been spent amid the
sounds of propellers and “prop wash”——
otherwise the length and breadth of the
airport.

The pet of Richard C. du Pont, who
operates an aerial mail pickup and de—
livery service under the trade banner
“All-American Aviation,” of Wilmington,
Cub has been around for a long time as
canine years are weighed, yet she has had
but one encounter with the big ships that
ﬁnd haven at the airport. That was the
time she was knocked almost “slap_happy”
by an idling propeller blade.

Cub’s chief interest in life, apart from
her master, is the A. A. A. mail. It is
part and parcel of her very makeup. Until
the mail comes in at regular intervals,
she will neither eat nor sleep.

Twice a day, as regularly as the sun,
9:30 A.M. and 5:45 P.M., she’ll be stand-
ing windward, her nose pointed to the
heavens above, waiting and listening for
a familiar sound. For it is about that
time when du Pont’s aerial buggy swoops
over the airport to deposit a sack of mail
and pick up one—all on the wing.

When the ship roars past, Cub chases
after it to see it on its merry way safe
and sound, then races back to the catch-
all barrier to help an attendant tug the
sack to the airport ofﬁce.

Not long ago du Pont changed his
approach direction, coming in from the
east in place of the north. Almost with-
out exception Cub was on the wrong side
of the “track.” She would almost have a
ﬁt whenever this happened, barking so
frantically that station attendants feared
the worst—rabies. But since she has
mastered the technique of detecting in
what direction the Stinson mail plane will
land, Cub has become quite happy.

June 191;];

Dogs’ Island

STRANGEST of all the islands in the
Indian Ocean is the one marked on sea
charts as Juan de Nova, but known to all
mariners of the Far East as the Island
of Dogs. A more appropriate name could
not possibly be given it, for literally it is
an island completely ruled by dogs.

This bit of land, ﬂat and sandy and
resembling a horseshoe in shape, lies not
far to the north of Madagascar. During
bygone centuries many East Indian boats,
Portuguese galleons and pirate ships of
many lands used to replenish their water
supply at this island and ﬁll their half-
empty larders with its cocoanu-ts and
turtles. As might be supposed, some of
these ships carried dogs of various
breeds, many of which escaped at Juan
de Nova and were left behind. In a few
years, abandoned and driven to provide
for themselves, they reverted to the wild
type from which they originally sprang.

At the present day their descendants,
a savage mongrel band, are in complete
possession of the island. They dominate
every rock and sandy hollow and attack
with the utmost ferocity any ship’s crew
that chances to set foot on the island.

A curious thing happened when these
dogs returned to a state of savagery.
They lost their dog-like bark; now they
call to each other in a weird, wolﬁsh howl.
In fact, too, they droop their tails as do
all wolves. They hunt their food in packs,
each band possessing its own section of
the land and one pack never dares venture
int-o territory controlled by another pack.

Their food consists of turtle eggs and
sea birds of all kinds. They dig up the
turtle eggs from the beaches with their
claws and stalk the unwary sea gulls with
all the cunning and stealth of lions or
tigers. No one has ever tried to reclaim
these renegade animals and they have
held the island unmolested up to the
present day.

——-L. E. Eubanks

 

 

" ' . ' . 1 (p "r .
Sketch by Bill Sagerniann

 

Odd Facts in Rime

The Cutestof Them All!
By CARROLL VAN o'OUivr ’

The tiny seahorse takes the‘lprize
For catching our attention;

This clever little fellow is
Worth especial mention.

Just like a little horse he looks; ..
And playful 'as a pup; I

He travels not like other fish—”—' i
For he swims standinglt‘Jp! .

 

 

‘. \l
g ly‘il

 




ORE AND MORE, animals are l king their rightful place in the motion

picture industry. After such ﬁm successes as Bambi, Jungle Book, My
Friend Flicka and Lassie Come Home, itiis evident that animals are a definite box-
ofﬁce attraction, both for children andia‘dults.

And why not! Most animals are namral actors. They can sense a situation and
be glad or sad as the occasion demands. iut better than that, audiences love them
for themselves. People have always likec animals and most of them are kind and
considerate of their pets.

It is true that in the past animals h e been used in stunts and undoubtedly
cruelty existed in their use, but the ten incy now, among the studios, is toward a
more normal and natural portrayal. Astto actual cruelty, we know there is none.
Common sense dictates that to harm anyi‘of these high priced and highly paid ani—
mal actors would be unthinkable. Theif owners watch over them jealously and the
representative of the humane movementjin Hollywood, is consulted on all pictures
where animals are used.

Who is there who will not believe tat in picturing these splendid creatures a

 

 

potent lesson is set before the movie—goin' public? Such pictures are lessons in un— .
"Daisy." derstanding ride on ”Dice."

 

Roddy McDowell (famous boy ac’ror) and equine lead. "Flicka." "Lassie" poses wi’rh "Daisy" and n , a 5+ Grauman's Chinese

Thea’rer. Gree’ring "Lassie": "Flee’ra." "Hobo." "Daisy." "As’ra." "Gray Shadow.'

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 144

 

B. C. Forest Service

RESCU ED FROM FIRE

Game suffers heavily as a result of forest

fires. particularly the young birds and an-

imalsI which are too small to make any at-

tempt to escape. This little fawn was

picked up at a fire near Qualicum Beach.
on Vancouver Island.

4%

No Trespassing!

ACH morning, a housewife in Alpena,
Michigan, would give her large police
dog a paper to be delivered up the street
to a neighbor with whom she share-d
papers. The dog would get about half
way to his destination without mishap,
but excepting his ﬁrst attempt when he
was allowed to complete the mission, this

was as far as he dared to go.

“Tip,” a much smaller dog who lived
across the street from the housewife ex-
pecting the paper, would always be at
the half-way mark to protect his terri-
tory from outside delivery competition.

The two dogs would converse in some
sort of dog language, and this same scene
was repeated day after day.

The larger dog would growl and look
as if he intended to complete his mission,
but Tip would stand his ground until
ﬁnally the would-be trespasser, resigned
to failure, would drop the paper and watch
dejectedly as Tip picked it up and carried
it majestically to the waiting housewife.

—William Parker, III

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Victims to Beauty

HOW many little creatures have died
to beautify the human race?

In the days of the early Romans a
species of shellﬁsh, a kind of snail, was
nearly exterminated because it was the
only source of the dye called “Tyrian
Purple.” Wool ﬁxed with this color sold
for $350.00 per pound in gold, which
accounts for the modern expression,
“royal purple.” No one but members of
the Emperor’s family could afford such
a luxury.

Today quantities of wee yellow butter-
ﬂies are meeting a similar sad fate.
Natives in the Solomon Islands treasure
the ﬂying insects for the brilliant yellow
pigment which they yield. The butter-
ﬂies are caught or merely removed from
spiders’ webs in which they have become
enmeshed. The natives color their woven
arm bands and other possessions with the
yellow dye.

Another valued ornament is the king—
ﬁsher blue butterﬂy, found nowhere else
in the world except in the Solomons. Not
the women, but the male Papuans wear
these gorgeous creatures, as large as
small birds, in their bushy wigs.

No luckier are the extremely large,
often two-inch—long ﬁreﬂies, whose ability
to give out a ﬂashing, green-yellow glow
has created a demand for their use as
hair ornaments. In Vera Cruz, South
America, great numbers of the insects
are caught and sold to fashionable women,
who imprison the living bugs in their
tresses to glow like live gems until they
die.

Many are the birds, too, which have
been sacriﬁced because man coveted their
beautiful plumage. The Maoris of New
Zealand have helped to greatly reduce the
numbers of the nearly extinct kiwi bird,
whose useless wings and unwieldy body
make him an easy prey to feather seekers.

——Ida M. Pardue

 

August 1941;

Sacred Cats

HE cat was so respected by the ancient
Egyptians for its usefulness as a
hunter that it became one of the sacred
animals of that country. According to
the Greek historian Herodotus they were
held in such veneration that an Egyptian
always saved the cat ﬁrst when his house
took ﬁre and to kill one of them even by
accident was punishable by death. When
they died, their bodies were preserved
for burial like humans and cat mummies
have been found in numerous Egyptian
tombs along with the other valued pos-
sessions of the occupant.

They even had a cat goddess known as
Pasht, the one the Greeks called Bubastis.
Originally Pasht had been a lioness-
headed goddess but later had been a cat-
headed one. The city of Bubastis in the
Nile Delta was named after her and it
was there that solemn feasts were cele-
brated each year in the great temple dedi-
cated to her worship. Herodotus says it
was one of the most beautiful temples in
all Egypt.

This Egyptian cat worship was one
reason why cats were not a common pet
in Rome. The excavators of Pompeii
have never found the remains of even
one of these animals and even after that
they were very slow to gain a foothold.
Of course some Romans treated the ani-
mal as contemptuously as the religion of
which they were a part. But aside from
this the Egyptians were fanatically op-
posed to any cats being taken out of the
country either to Rome or anywhere else.
They had to be smuggled out. Then when
any did reach Rome, the Egyptians would
try repeatedly to buy them back and take
them home again.

——J0hn H. Spice?“

@

Please remember the Massachusetts
S. P. C. A. when making your will.

 

   
  

W“

    

The hummingbird that darts around
ls such a charming elf;

With so much speed and beauty,
He's a champion, all himself.

 

Odd Facts
in
Rime

By CARROLL VAN COURT
Sketch by Bill Sagermann

Tiny Champion of the Airways

For either backward or ahead,
He flies, with equal ease;

The only bird that can do both,
A marvel, if you please!

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ﬂ,

/

/w

W
4,

 

gﬂ/ 1/ ,
0% xi

 

{1-111 I "(1 1| ‘

I .. t I 1 ‘ 1 kt! 1")!n It
J « xv. \ . 1 v A t . . .2. Stilt. . ..\\a .0 .‘\Ae.l.v A .Yr I 117...}. |\Lﬂ.|l't«£-lrkﬂnv,\.b. ‘ .tllhri.wln..,:;.v|¢ltllk . It

[ix ‘1‘.

 

 

 

 
 

 




 

 

Page 28

Letter from J.

HE middle of November we wrote
II to J. Edgar Hoover, Director, Fed-
eral Bureau of Investigation, U. S.
Department of Justice, Washington, D. C.,
in which we said, “Hearing your recent
statement in the ‘March of Time’ news-
reel, referring to the responsibility of
the home in this crisis, I am writing to
ask if it would be possible for you, even
in a few sentences, to repeat your words
on this theme which we might use in
our magazine.”
Very graciously, Mr. Hoover replied, in
a letter of December 20, saying, “Dear
Dr. Rowley: It is heartening to know
of your interest in this matter of the
American home and, in accordance with
your request, I am enclosing some ma-
terial, along with a glossy copy of my

photograph, for which you asked and‘

which you may use in your publication.”
The following is what we quote from his
,. reply:

“Frankly, the heartbreaking thing
about the juvenile crime situation today
is the fact that we know it is just the
forerunner of a more serious crime situa-
tion as these youthful violators grow
older. The present situation cannot be
charged entirely to wartime laxity of
morals and a last-ﬂing philosophy of
life. That may be the case with the older
violator, but when mere children turn to
crime there is a more sinister reason.
This condition did not come on us over-
night. It is deep—rooted and does not fore-
cast a very bright picture for the future.
Something has happened to the moral
stamina of America when the conventions
and principles of honesty and common

Canine Comments

HE silvery tones of a muted bugle

have sounded taps for Sergeant Rex.
Sergeant Rex, intelligent and lovable
mascot of the Canadian Army, was ac—
corded a full military funeral, with burial
at Chippewa barracks, Niagara Camp,
after he had been killed in a motor ac—
cident while on maneuvers with the First
Battalion, Dufferin and Haldiman Riﬂes.
This massive St. Bernard had the dis-
tinction of being the longest time-on-
active-Service mascot in the Canadian
Army.

The ﬁrst instance of a dog being an of-
ﬁcial witness at a wedding was recorded
recently in Seattle, Washington, when
blind Helen Jeanne Goodwin became the
bride of Prof. William McLaurin of the
University of Washburn. A footprint of
the bride’s seeing-eye dog was made on
the wedding certiﬁcate by inking a paw
on a pad and then pressing it down on
the certiﬁcate.

—Lew York

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Edgar Hoover

decency are regarded as ‘old fogey’ and
‘antique.’
mentals in life that are essential.
“Today, more boys and girls, 18 years
of age, are being arrested than in any
other age group. As a matter of fact,
17—year-olds alone accounted for a 25.3
per cent increase in arrests in the ﬁrst
nine months of this year over 1942. We
have just completed a survey of actual
arrests in 18 leading cities, representing
a population of 10,000,000 inhabitants,
which reﬂect a 42.7 per cent increase in
the arrests of boys under 18 years of
age and a 43 per cent increase in the ar-
rests of girls under 18 years of age in
the ﬁrst six months of this year over a
corresponding period in 1942.

/ “Above all, we must face the stark
" facts and the grim reality that if only

100,000 crimes were committed a year,
that would be too many. But, last year
alone, an estimated 1,436,000 of the more
serious crimes were committed and there
was a total of 16,000,000 lesser offenses
committed. We know from actual case
studies that persons under 21 years of
age account for 13 per cent of all murder-
ers arrested, 40 per cent of all robbers,
56 per cent of all burglars, 65 per cent of
all car thieves, 27 per cent of all forgers,
29 per cent of all arsonists, and 37 per
cent of all thieves arrested. It’s the old
story. First, some adult fails to live up

to his parental responsibility, then a,

youth is allowed to do as he pleases. ’

“Our country’s future rests in the
hands of the youth of today. In order that
they may be prepared to carry that great
responsibility it is the sacred duty of

a

There are certain funda—f,

February 194.4

JOHN EDGAR HOOVER

every mother and father and, as a matter
of fact, of all adults to prepare them for
it. We must give them every advantage
and aid and example within our power to
develop within this youth the funda-
mentals of honesty and integrity in deal-
ing with their fellows. We must instill
in them the principles of freedom and
liberty and patriotism to carry on the
ideals of the founders of this great repub-
lic. lOur democracy has been established
——whether it stands or falls depends upon
those who follow us. If they are not pre-
pared by us, it is we who will have failed.”

5...“; "

Mine Mules Soliloquy

By MARJORIE S. SCHEUER

“l

As stubborn as a mule,’ the miners say,

Though I have drawn a cart both night and day

For ten long years beneath the reeking ground.

I never use my heels, nor utter sound

Against my master; no, I cannot strike,

Or go about my work iust as I like.

Here in the coal-black mine, where men and mules
Appear and disappear in scattered pools

Of light, I sometimes have a happy dream

Of fields, and grass where shafts of sunlight stream;
Where yellow glimpses glisten through the trees,

Of golden wheat fields bending in the breeze.

Or, when | eat my scanty noonday meal,

I wonder how those other mules must feel

Tied beneath the trees at heat of day;

The cool green shade; the smell of new-mown hay . . .
How black, how inky black this vault below,

Save where the mules and miners come and go

Like feeble stars throughout an endless night,—

And fill me with a longing for the light.”

 

 

‘13




 

 

 

 

Page 50

Nature’s Springtime Call
By BURLINGHAM SCHURR

‘T THIS SEASON of the year it is
customary to look to nature for
various signs that betoken the coming of
spring. The pussy-willows are here to
tell us of warmer days ahead. Bluebirds,
robins, song sparrows—true harbingers
of spring—have been observed by many
persons. The “mourning cloak,” often
called the ﬁrst butterﬂy of spring, came
out of hibernation to display its beauty,
and other insects, like wasps and ﬂies, as
well as spiders, stirred out of their torpid
states to show themselves on sunny days.
The winter sleep of the chipmunk has
been made restless by the inﬂuence of
nature and, in consequence, the little
ground squirrel has ventured forth to
ﬁnd something to eat in the form of old
nuts and seeds. Sap is ﬂowing, and the
buds on various trees and bushes present
indisputable evidence of the coming sea—
son.

Nature’s springtime call arouses life,
thought and love. The fragrant, exqui—
site blossoms of the Trailing Arbutus are
the very exempliﬁcation of spring. Pic-
ture the Pilgrims landing at Plymouth
Rock, December 21, 1620; picture the
hardships those brave souls experienced
during that ﬁrst winter in New England.
Nothing could ﬁll their hearts with
greater rejoicing than the approach of
warmer days. A few of the women ven-
turing aﬁeld discovered beds of these
lovely blossoms whose pure sweetness
imparted such inspiration and rejoicing
they named them “Mayﬂowers” in grati-
tude to God for His mercy in willing the
safe voyage to this soil.

Several years ago, a toast was written
to the Arbutus, a toast whose signiﬁ-
cance might well have been in the hearts
of the Pilgrims.

“Drink its fragrance. It is a most
precious gift from nature. A messenger
of cheer and comfort—the symbol of
faith, hope, love—the token of the bond
that makes the whole world akin—this
one touch of nature.”

The Pilgrims found nature in all its
wealth and glory in this wonderful land,
but with the progress of the years, na-
ture has been forced to suffer through
many causes, and the conditions are such
today, it is most urgent that everyone
become interested in conservation. May
this month of March be favored as quite
appropriate to awaken and instill in the
hearts of young and old, greater appre-
ciation of wildlife and the productions
of nature. This is the period when
feathered creatures begin returning
from southern climes, arbutus and hepa-
ticas make their initial showing, insects

stretch their wings to the warmth from
the sun.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

ANIMAL AND

Speaking of hens, did you ever hear
the famous limerick:
The honorable Henry Ward Beecher
Called the hen a most elegant creature.
The hen pleased with that
Laid an egg in his hat
And, thus did the hen reward Beecher.

In Holland, even the sheep are Nazi-
baiters. German agricultural papers
brand the animals saboteurs, having dis-
covered that they rub off the marks put
on their ears to check on delivery of
quotas requisitioned from the Dutch
sheep raisers.

Of beasts and men: A Pennsylvania
convict has offered the service of his dog
to the Army K-9 Corps. Coots ﬂy ahead
of ducks and warn them of danger.
Mocking birds go through an elaborate
wedding ceremony. In a movie about to
be released by Columbia, a caterpillar,
named “Curly,” does a dance.

A paciﬁc bunny, named "Oscar,” has
recently been given the rank of second
lieutenant by an Army N on-Combat-
ant’s Certiﬁcate. He is the "star” of the
act of magician Arnold Furst, who tours
soldier camps all over the world. Oscar
has "met” seven generals, is a member
of the famed Short Snorters Club and is
rated by many as the most distinguished
quadruped ever to serve in a military
way.

The ﬁrst use of carrier pigeons in war
time is sometimes attributed to the wily
Napoleon. Certainly, the idea has paid
handsome dividends for the Allies in the
Italian Campaign. Examples of heroism
on the part of these birds would ﬁll a
good, thick book. One in particular,
“Yank,” ﬂew over a hundred miles to

bring in the ﬁrst news of the recapture
of Gafsa.

Though the average span of life in
horsedom is around twenty years, an
Idaho rancher reports an animal that has
attained the age of 41. He has been
retired to pasture after serving four
generations of his master’s family.

"Tiger,” a Chicago Shepherd dog, was
a city lion some time ago when he leapt
into the frigid waters of Lake Michigan
and rescued from drowning a tiger cat,
"Clherub.” The two are now inseparable
pa 8.

—Jack Pearson

March 1944

 

 

OVER THE AIR

A weekly radio program devoted to ani-
mals may be heard each Tuesday after-
noon at |:|5 over Springfield radio station
WSPR—I27O on your radio dial. This pro-
gram is presented by Charlena B. Kibbe
and sponsored by the Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Programs will be as follows:
March 7—"Animals in the News."

March l4—"Emergency Care and Treat-
ment of Animals."

Ma-rch 2l—”True Dog Stories."

March 28—"Animals in General."

 

 

 

 

 

 

A Lucky Pony

OW “Bambi,” a small British pony

with a broken leg, happened to be
limping on the deserted street of a little
English town, no one knows. Whatever
the circumstances, Bambi was out in the
dark and doing his best to get along on
three legs. But his progress was slow
for he had to stop often on account of the
pain. This was quite annoying. He shook
his head with its long mane and snorted
disgustedly, then moved on again.

It was very cold and the blackout was
complete. Suddenly, he bumped into the
rear of a wagon standing on one side of
the street. He hobbled up an inclined
platform and walked cautiously in. It
was warmer there. Bambi relaxed and
fell asleep.

The sound of voices roused him. It
was broad daylight and two amazed men
in uniform were staring at him. One of
them came up, patted him kindly and
tried to lead him out. But the man soon
realized that something was wrong and
his ﬁngers ran swiftly up and down the
injured leg. Then he gave an order, and
the wagon drove off.

Now, incredible as it may seem, the
wagon turned out to be a United States
Army truck and the man in uniform none
other than Jules Werner, head veterina-
rian at the Army Ordnance Depot.

Werner had the pony’s leg X—rayed,
gave him an anaesthetic, operated and

- put the fractured leg between splints.

Bambi, today, has recovered com-
pletely; his leg is as good as new.
Furthermore, Mr. Werner, having widely
lectured on his case, Bambi has become
the most talked of pony in all England.

—Andrew B. Coizart

@

Could Be

“And what,” asked the teacher, “do
two ducks and, a cow remind you of?”

“Quackers and milk,” said the little
boy.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 224

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

The Spirit of Christmas

By GERTRUDE CORRIGAN

HE Christmas tradition extends to

the humble creatures that are placed
here in the care of mortals, and whom
these latter sometimes neglect, or even
, mistreat. Their very dependence on the
good will and the bounty of man should
be a reason for the exercise on his part
of mercy and protection.

The various messages that have come
through Christmas legends teem with
lessons in kindness and justice to the
humbler folk of the animal world.

The story of the little Gray Lamb tells
of the longing in the heart of the small
animal to be white. The shepherds would
not take him with their snowy ﬂocks to
visit the Christ-Child because of his
dark color. So he implored the clouds,
the moon, the trees, and the birds, to
help him to become white. '

At last he wandered away from the
fold until he encountered the procession
of the Three Wise Men as they neared
the dwelling of the Holy Family. The
shiVering little creature stood near the
door while the Wise Men worshipped the
Infant Jesus. Then the Christ-Child saw
the lamb at the door and beckoned him
to come in. He laid His hand on the
head of the lamb and it became white
as snow. This is the lamb one sees in
pictures, walking near the Savior. It
carries the cross. It becomes a symbol
of the Lord in its meekness and humility.

Then there is the story of the donkey
in the pastures at Galilee, which showed
him as a vain creature, who doted on his
own long, silken ears. He even disdained
the white horse. gayly caparisoned, rid-

:13
Did You Know about Mice?

OU can’t truthfully say that a mouse

is dirty, for no animal does a more

thorough job of washing its hands and
face and cleaning its fur.

A mouse can climb a string very

easily. For this reason one should be

careful about picking a live mouse up by

the tail. He will twist a1 ound, climb his
own slender tail and then bite your
ﬁnger.

The wild dee1 mice a1e as thrifty as
squi1”.1els Thei1 nests sometimes contain
as much as two quarts of shelled beech-
nuts stored up for winter use.

The meadow mouse is not the least bit
af1aid of wate1 and is quite an expert
swimmei.

Mice a1e popula1

pets with a good
many people.

Not only white mice, but
blue, black, b1own and tortoise shell

ones. The fanciers haven’t been able
to b1eed b1ick led ones yet, but they
hope to some day. —J0hn H. S'picer '

den by the Roman messenger who came
to tell the carpenter, Joseph, of the gov—
ernor’s order to enroll all citizens,

But when his master, Joseph, led the
proud donkey along the difﬁcult and
tedious path to Bethlehem, bearing Mary
upon his shoulders, the haughty animal
grew meek and humble under the gentle
burden. And when he returned to Naz—
areth, carrying not only the Mother, but,
also, the Christ—Child, the curious ani-
mals in his home pasture wondered why
the donkey should not be proud and
boastful. They knew of the great honor
he had been given, and they remembered
the great pride he had formerly felt for
his silken ears.

The donkey answered that his ears had .

heard the angels singing so he would al-
ways droop them in humble reverence
for the heavenly favor. And he told his
companions of the ﬁeld, that every night
at the hour when he had seen the angelic
vision at Bethlehem, he awakened from
sleep and recalled What he had been per-
mitted to see.

Stockmen say that at midnight, there
is a stirring in the corrals and stables.
Because of the glory that once came to
the lowliest of them? Who can tell!

&

Many Strange Pets
ISPROVING the old idea that navy
mascots are invariably parrots, mon-
keys or dogs, Seabee battalions from
every ﬁghting front at Camp Endicott,
Quonset, R. I., have adopted mascots that

range in variety from a black bear to
a horned toad.

December 1941;

A Classroom Kitten
By NORMAN c. SCHLICHTER

I HEARD recently a good story about
a kitten in a classroom in Pennsyl-

_ vania. It was in the classroom of the pro-

fessor of theology in a theological semi~
nary.

The kitten had got into the seminary’s
recitation building, and a couple of
students spying it thought it would be
a diversion to put it into the classroom
they were bound for. Their teacher,
Doctor 8., had not, of course, arrived
when they took the kitten into the room
with them.

Doctor 8., a very kindly, white—haired
teaching veteran, arrived in due time
and had hardly got seated behind his
lecture table until the kitten jumped up
on it. Instead of beginning his lecture
immediately the genial professor encour-
aged the furry visitor to make itself at
home on the table.

After a few minutes of being the cyno-
sure of all those student eyes, the kitten
moved closer to the teacher and soon was
seated on the open textbook which was
being used as the main outline of the
subject which the class was studying.

The kitten had by then made the op-
portunity the professor was looking for
to turn the intended joke of its presence
back upon the students, especially those
chieﬂy responsible for the lecture hour’s
delay.

“Now, gentlemen,” said DoctOr Snow-
den, with great gravity, “you will observe
that our guest of the morning has got
much closer to the subject than many of
you have to date.”

The class was in an instant in an up-
roar of laughter, and one of the students
who had brought the kitten into the
room quickly and quietly removed the
friendly aid of the professor.

 

Odd Facts
in
Rime

”Ry CARROLL VAN COURT
Sketch by Bill Sagermann

The way birds fly when in the air,
' The loon‘ ‘flies" under water;
He flaps his wings with awful speed,
When hunters plan his slaughter.

 

//1

  

A Submarine Flyer

 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 

,/////////’////////
o//////// /
- ////Al////?// ///_////

.— lﬁlﬂj/ {1/ I,

~ . N I i /ll

//3;, .33 ,_ W”
1/

.llllll/IH I» 3’ ) .
f If

WW

, .° Ill ol’Il/ll/I/Il, . .
. a: ,0 a,

O

 
 

80

When chasing fish, or being chased,
That’s what the loan will do,

He goes so fast that he can beat
A fish or a canoe!

 

 

 

 




 

 

Those Fr

1€I1

dy

§

Enemies

HERE seems to be something inherent in the

enmity between cats and dogs and yet, it is the
dog that is usually the aggressor, the cat preferring
to adopt the “live and let live” policy wherever
possible.

It seems strange, indeed, that there should be this
animosity between man’s chosen pets. And, yet, in
a household where the two are brought up side by
side, there seems to grow a Complete compatibility.
This companionship has been known to go beyond
the limits of playful friendship, beyond even the
willingly shared food and sleeping quarters. Occa~
sions have been noted where one or the other will do
battle to protect its housemate against an aggressor.

Ordinarily, a cat and a dog are as different from
each other as night is from day. Some people prefer
the dog that will go into ecstasies of delight at its
master’s approach; others are intrigued at the aloof—

ness and independence of the cat. There are, of
course, those people who like both, enjoying the self-
esteem administered by a dog; relaxing under the -
restfulness of the family cat.

' Surely, there is a lesson for the whole world in the
many friendships between these two animals. In—
herent enemies they may be, but brought together in
the same environment and learning each other’s ways
has proved a basis for lasting friendship. Warring na—
tions may well draw the conclusion that an effort to
learn and tolerate each other’s distinguishing char-
acteristics will avert needless jealousie's, needless mis-
understandings, needless bloodshed.

Let’s all take a lesson from the animal world—give
these friends of ours their rightful place in the world
of today. We venture to assert that a child, brought
up to be kind to animals, will show greater aptitude
in getting along with his fellow men.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Nurse and willing patients.

Twins Hospitalized

HESE interesting, six—month-ol-d ped-

igreed Dachshund sisters, “Weenie”

and “Mittens,” insepara‘ble companions

that they are, could not bear the thought

of occupying individual cages when they

were recently entered as patients at the
Angell Memorial Animal Hospital.

As a result, it was arranged to have
them share the same kennel during their
period of hospitalization. There seems to
be some jealousy on the part of “Weenie,”
however, because she was not as fortunate
as “Mittens,” (right) who was born with
a perfect “V” on her pretty head.

In this case, however, “Mittens” could
not help feeling that the “V” stood for
“Victim” instead of “Victory.” Nurse
Miriam Puffer is shown bidding the twins
farewell as they leave the Hospital to
join their owners.

4%

Care Saves Horse Mascot

UDDY,” horse mascot of a United

States Army signal corps in New
Guinea, is alive today because his soldier
friends refused to have him shot when
he broke a leg.

Doctors at the hospital looked up in
amazement when signal corps men car-
ried Buddy into the X—ray laboratory.
The horse had broken a leg in a fall down
a hill. The veterinarian said the leg
could be set if he had an X-ray taken and
if the boys would suspend Buddy in a
canvas hammock until the bone knitted.

The soldiers transported Buddy to the
hospital, where the surprised doctors
made the pictures. They lugged him
back to the veterinarian for the setting
of the fracture. Then they moved Buddy
to a shady place and suspended him in a
canvas hammock, and ﬁxed up a feed
box and watering trough within easy
reach. The leg is knitting splendidly,
but the soldiers are sure Buddy will be
thoroughly spoiled by the time he gets
out of his hammock.

——Ala.n A. Brown

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Birds That Cannot Fly

EW ZEALAND, an island in the
South Paciﬁc Ocean, is the home

of a queer bird known as the Kiwi. They
cannot ﬂy, but hidden under their brown
or gray feathers that look like long,
loose hair, are a pair of tiny wings. Their
bill is long and slightly curved and helps
them to feel their way around at night
when they look for food. They spend
most of the daytime rolled up in a ball
or stand with their bill touching the
ground as a support. The female Kiwi
lays one or two eggs in a sort of burrow
and the male sits on them most of the
time. The eggs are very large; almost
as large as an ostrich egg. The baby
Kiwis are very unusual birds for when
they leave their egg—home they are fully
feathered and can take care of them-
selves without any help from their
parents. .
——Lenelle Marsh Kanthack

 

Captain Schnelle greets triencls.

Happy Reunion

URING his recent leave of absence,
Captain Gerry B. Schnelle, who in
civilian life is Assistant Chief of Staff
of our Society’s Angell Memorial Animal
Hospital, paid a visit to the Hospital,
greeted friends, and was almost over-
come with enthusiasm on the part of
these cute little canine patients.
“Butch,” the tiny cocker spaniel, was
insistent that he have a reserved seat
and climbed, without waiting for an in-
vitation, atop the Captain’s shoulder
where he could get a “dog’s-eye” view of
this “funny world” and at the same time
watch what the photographer was doing.
Captain Schnelle, who is attached to
the Army Veterinary Corps, is stationed
at the Remount Depot, Front Royal, Vir-
ginia, where the training of dogs for use
during wartime is handled.

  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
   
   
   
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
   
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
   
  
 
 
  
 
 
    

October 1941;
Shall We Go on Killing?

By BURLIN GHAM SCHURR

NOT so many years have passed since

song birds, as well as most all forms
of feathered creatures, were slaughtered
by the millions to supply the whims of
fashion in women’s hats.

The value of bird life in its relation to
agriculture was little understood until
this great destruction took place. When
the birds disappeared, insects overran
the country. Only then did people learn
that birds and insects bear an important
relation to each other. With birds greatly
diminished in numbers, insects had no
enemy to check their increase. Conse—
quently, many insects wreaked destruc—
tion in garden, farm, orchard and forest.

The World War has emphasized the
fact that the products of the soil and
the natural wealth of a nation stand
foremost in “backing up” a great strug—
gle. The truth stands—Nature is the
backbone of a nation.

A multitude of facts might be advanced
to illustrate how necessary it is to under—
stand such matters. However, the ques—
tion which should concern the people
most is how to create in the younger
generation greater respect for life.

Hunting has caused an appalling scar—
city of wild life. The ﬁrst step, then, is
to give it a chance to increase by closing
the woodlands and waters to hunting.
Put away the shotgun and riﬂe. Tell
that boy or girl of yours there is enough
killing going on in the world.

(it

New Inductee

N response to an appeal for a mascot,

our Society gladly presented a Nor-
wegian Elkhound, which was promptly
named “Major.” The picture shows
Nurse Mary F. Wood making the presen—
tation to Sergeant Ted Helfand, Staff
Sergeant Benjamin Rubin, Company “C,”
708th Military Police Battalion, Camp
Edwards.

 

Presentation of "Maior."

 

 

 

 

 




©.:_l::;:.°s..:::d ~ — . E> WW
.‘. g . ._ - _ g... ong- egge .
CHOUS growl'l‘l . . ‘ _ ' ._ wading birds.

011‘ i+s beak.

 

 

 

«622$;

I. These chicks (only a few days old) are s’rriking in +heir beau’riful s’rriped coa’rs.

 

 

Unui'ual Bird Life

OU all know such com 11 birds as the robin, sparrow, bluebird, crow and the many
others you see so often, ut are you familiar with the uncommon varieties shown
here? Read the descriptions at d see if you can guess their names. Then look at the bottom

line to see if you were right. i

1. NeXt to the ostrich, thfse are the largest living birds known to naturalists. As young
birds they wear a protective dlllSS of beautiful stripes which blend with the long grass of
Australia’s forest country. AS he birds grow, the stripes gradually disappear and when fully
grown (from five to seven feein height) they are of a uniform grayish-brown. These birds
have no tails and are incapable of ﬂight, although they are very fast of foot and are expert
swimmers.

2. Another ﬂightless bill, this odd creature uses its wings as paddles in the water
and for fighting and walking ’bile on land. It is primarily an aquatic bird found mostly
about the Antarctic continent, ialkland Islands and New Zealand. Many of this species make
their way on ice either by W3 ling upright or ﬂat on their bellies, kicking their legs.
playful fellow, it enjoys noth g better than taking joy rides on cakes of ﬂoating ice.

3. Allied to the kingfis 1‘8, this bird is named from a curious horny growth on .its
large beak. Found in Africa, lay ArChipelago and southeastern Asia, these creatures live
in ﬂocks. Their food consists: leﬂy of fruit‘ and seeds. In color they are black and white,

2- A" aqua’ric bird. found necks entirely without feathev‘and beaks, a vivid yellow with scarlet and black markings.
mos’rly abou+ +he An’rarcﬁc con- '

Enent Falkland Islands and 4. Species of this long- . keda long-legged, wading bird are found in Europe, Amer-
ew Zealand. ica, Africa, Asia and Austral -. .Its long tapering bill has a sharp pointand keen cutting
edges. It chieﬂy frequents the 1C1111ty of water, feeding mostly on aquatlc animals. These

birds usually nest in trees, in Dmmunlties.

uoon '17 IHqUJOH 5 utnﬁuod °z IIIIIEI 'I

 

 

. \\'§-\
We ‘

\

\{m

: SJQMSUV

 

 

 




If is believed in Poland and Swifzerland ’rha’r oxen kneel in reverence
when +he bells foll ’rhe hour of midnighfand af fhaf hour are briefly
endowed wi+h human speech.

:Z’xnimal
Christmas Abroad

By IDA M. PARDUE

ENERALLY speaking, the only animals that get' any attention during the Christ-
mas season in America are the mythical reindeer that bring Santa Claus to town.
Across the seas, the OK, the ass, the horse, and other creatures are characters of im—

portance throughout the holiday celebration. Among the peoples who have for cen—
turies held on to curious old beliefs about the behavior of the descendants of the manger
animals on Christmas Eve are the Danes. They say that the OX and the ass know instinc-
tively the hour of Christ’s birth, and will at that exact moment rise and bow their heads
in honor of the memory. So, on Christmas Eve in Denmark, even the stock animals
are fed a special holiday supper; they are brushed and combed and made particularly
comfortable in preparation for this, their great night.

The Poles and the Swiss credit the 0x and the ass with even nobler observance of
the Holy anniversary. They claim that when the church bells toll the hour of
midnight, the animals kneel reverently, and are brieﬂy endowed with human speech.

Not even the birds are forgotten in Denmark, Finland and Norway, where it is
the custom to leave plenty of rye or wheat in convenient places outside the houses so
the feathered friends, too, may have a Christmas Eve feast. '

The Swiss who still cling to the old convictions gather up their chicken ﬂocks on
Christmas Eve and clip each fowl’s wings. This must be done in the hour before mid—
night, in order to insure the chickens against attacks from beasts of prey during the
coming year.

In Belgium, it is the donkey that is the center of attraction. The Belgian children
do not listen for the hoofbeats of reindeer, but for the sounds which herald the ap-
proach of the donkey, carrying their St. Nick on his annual rounds. No Belgian child
goes to bed without ﬁrst arranging a meal of carrots and bread for the beloved Christ-
mas donkey. .

From Syria comes fhe legend fha’r +he youngesf camel wh

Camel of Jesus. bri

figs gif’rs +o +he children.

 

ch accompanied fhe Three Wise Men. called by Syrians ’rhe

Belgian children do no’r lis’ren for fhe hoofbea‘l‘s of reindeer. buf
ra’rher for fhose of Jrhe donkey. credifed by fhem of carrying +heir
Sanfa Claus on"his rounds.

“Tolkien: of Cbristmastime

One Chrisfmas legend fells of fhe lih‘le

while. If wandered fo fhe dwelling of

Chris’r Child. seeing +he lamb. beckoned
and if becan

 

Gray Lamb wi’rh a longing in HS hearf fo be
'he Holy Family. lingering a’r ’rhe door. The
He laid His hand on i’rs head

it: whi’re as snow.

if fo come in.

L

,l

I Christmas Legends
By ALAN A. BROWN

HE facts and folklore of the Christmas season are fascinating. Whether true or
not, these innumerable tales form the traditions of the holiday season.
are prominently mentioned in many of the legends and customs.

Norwegians, Swedes and the Swiss make it a special point to be extremely friendly
and hospitable on Christmas, both to domestic pets and wild birds.

A persistent Christmas legend is that bees hum a carol in honor of the Christ
Child. In England, holly is placed on the hive to wish the bees a Merry Christmas.

Spaniards are taught to treat cows kindly; they believe that cattle breathed upon
the Christ Child to keep Him warm. Tradition holds that cows and horses kneel in
adoration at midnight each Christmas Eve. Among the residents of the German Alps
it is believed that on Christmas Eve all animals can speak.

According to one legend, a fierce storm raged through the Harz Mountains one
Christmas Eve. Massive trees were torn asunder; only the Fir trees were able to stand up
before the gale. The trees heard the cries of distressed canaries, and called to them:
“Come into our branches. We will protect you.” Now, when your canary sings his
sweetest, you’ll know he is joyful about Christmas Eve in the Fir trees that pro-
tected the canaries so many years ago. ‘

In Worcestershire, it was at one time the custom to give a bough of mistletoe
to the cow that ﬁrst bore a calf after New Year’s Day. This was believed to bring
good luck to the whole dairy. '

In Syria, the youngest camel "which accompanied the Three Wise Men is called
the camel of Jesus, and it is this camel which brings gifts to the children.

In Bohemia a horse is taken out into a river at Christmas and walked against the
current. The rider tosses an apple into the stream and if it hits the horse it will be
stronger during the coming year.

Animals

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ANIMAL

Plctures

ON THE ALERT
Pho+o by R. L. Boren

 

 

 

WINNING CONTESTANTS

"First Prize—$25—Pedro E. Hernandez, Brookline, Mass.
Second Prize—$15—La Vern Frost, Crystal, Michigan
Third Prize—$5—Edith Bjorkman, Brooklyn, N. Y.

Three Dollars Each H. H. Sheldon, Boulder, Colo.

L. Maneval, Williamsport, Pa.

Pvt. Joe Jackson, White Sulphur Springs, W. Va.
W. Morton, C. Sp. (P.R.) USCGR, Providence, R. I.
Edith Bjorkman, Brooklyn, N. Y.

Ben A. Eddy, Portland, Oregon
Pedro E. Hernandez, Brookline, Mass.
Georgia Engelhard, New York, N. Y.
Charles C. Niehuis, Phoenix, Arizona
Arthur L. Center, San Diego, Calif. Subscription to
Georgia Engelhard, New York, N. Y.
R. W. Olsen, Caldwell, N. J. OUR DUMB ANIMALS
Louis A. Puggard, Fort Wayne, Ind. Louis A. Puggard, Fort Wayne, Indiana
Mrs. Henry Bedinger, Louisville, Ky. Russell S. Anderson, Rocky Hill, Connecticut
Pedro E. Hernandez, Brookline, Mass. James R. Parker, Hartford, Connecticut
Georgia Engelhard, New York, N. Y.

Two Dollars Eac/a R. A. Nerf, Lakewood, Ohio
Aldo Merusi, Rutland, Vermont
Mrs. Eugene Landess, Fayetteville, Tennessee

Louis A. Puggard, Fort Wayne, Ind.
Charles W. Groff, Lancaster, P'a.
R. L. Boren, Deming, Wash. H. H. Sheldon, Boulder, Colorado

James F. Cobh-am, Houston, Texas Myron Hall, St. Cloud, Minnesota
W. K. Baker, Atlanta, Ga. Fred Pounds, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

See cover for ﬁrst prize winning photo.

U1 TO CRACK.

' HARD N L. Cen’rer

Pho’ro by Arlhur

Pho’ro by J. F. Cobham

 

 

 




 

 

LET CHILDREN HAVE PETS

By ANGELO PATRI

HILDREN and their pets—the dog and the cat—are

tied in bonds of affection deeper and stronger than un—

thinking people understand. To the child, his pet is
his friend and companion. He shares his happiest hours with
him, and he gathers comfort from the feel and the presence of
him when his closest adult friends fail him. A child will share
his cherished treat with his dog, or his cat, and he wants him close
to him when he goes to bed. A child feels secure in the love and
loyalty of his pet in the night, that time of darkness and loneli-
ness when anything can happen and dOesn’t because Rover is
there.

There is nothing and nobody to take the place of a boy’s dog.
The boy is about ten or ﬁfteen years of age when he needs his pet
this way. He talks to him as he cannot talk to a human being.
He expresses deep, swelling feelings he cannot put in words, by
stroking his dog, holding his paw, walking with him, holding him
close. Do let him and his dog enjoy each other for the few brief
years they can be together. A dog’s life is short at best.

Old people, and lonely people need their pets. Don’t make a
fuss about the fuss they make over their pets. Try to under-
stand that the dog, the cat, the bird that they love ﬁlls an empty
aching place in their hearts so that it almost ceases to hurt too
much. When you are old, or ailing or lonely some day you will
understand. Just now take their word for it. They need their
pets.

The war has taken enOUgh of a toll from our lives now, and is
likely to take more. Let’s hold on to our pets and get what
comfort we can from their loving, loyal companionship.

—Courtesy of Boston Herald

 

 

‘I i. ‘ - ' u
if..._. .A h,
23"?32u2v: .::_:,, . .. .. -.._-A.~ - ~AA_

. .., _ _ 'z , _. .. , _ 4. ,. _. ,c - _ ’, , , .. .i m ”A ”u. :11? .- _ ‘ 7":"1". int" “WW ‘ - .. '
. v A . .. _,A . . . _ “m” A,..._ ‘ . . _ _ “u.“ ‘ . , ' w
. _ < , A .. . . . . ~ . , . . . . . ~ . ‘ .... ’ .‘ ‘ _ n. ‘ .
.- M ~ * - _ _ :~ - - -.. . A- A - e . _ A . . . A _ .. A MAM—WWW. _ .. A...A,.._ _ _. _ _ AA - .

‘ -.~J‘ #«m‘m‘: A. .' ' >' - .:- .- "7r.- ‘.\.~,; ..,-: ._;‘- "~ A A ,4 .- .,. _ - . '- ~ . -A AA «:2 _ .55. -— A - , ,v_' ‘ A, ._ , _< _A, A _. -.. AA «:4 ~ a. - -A -A-—_A« A -A_ .- .A ,3 ., ,-A:v AA . ‘ n3, .. A; ;_ A m. A- _..- . ., _, A.._ ._,A 7 g, A “A W»... ”A: . . r p . , L A
" “ * <~“‘ ‘ - ' ' ' -.5r”.“f'. ‘ ‘, A -"A' 'e .‘ 2 ‘ ‘ <~ i " ‘ ' , “W ._ -A ' - ,1, ., . .. “A . , _ .A H ‘ .,‘ V5.1”. “ ‘2‘. ,... 3-27,: HA -* n. .. A,“ i’_ A. -. _ _, - > A- , A - . . IL; I, . , . . '. . \ 3. , ._

t . M ‘ ' ' _ ' . - ' ‘ -A N .- - .- _. - m. - ‘*-~-— “4.: A. ’. “~ :~‘ Us- «At r A ‘ _ A. A ' . ' "A" "v‘ 7 = -G«‘.' .A . .A u— - A -.A. _A -_. A. .. . _ < , _ 1,. AA, 1,..5; ~ w w x ,
' .' ‘ . . w ' - ~ - ‘ r -, -. 1 , ui- A , : '_, , ., . , A. . _, , v A- A.» .. v—it _ , », < ,A ~ ,- , A - 4— . “No ;A A . ~ . .. .-_«~; A -— P ‘9” Ag, , m

.. . . ,,.. _ _ - x. < A : .r _ , , . . .. _ ... - . . .. , s - .— —- _ , ->- _. . . A -..A-A ‘ A- A_ A”... p . .- __ WAN” A_ . ~ p: . A

- —_ .. ._.r'- "
.p. ,._...a...,A:.A-«.-.v:=;......r‘xtramfmwsf—rmm.uucu§ih;§&1='séw~ .' T: ’
~ ._: -; ' g' .j,«

, say:

".x 44A 7
“:z—Teﬁ‘r' Wowpﬂ.
”1-": - u L-A'J‘ .; if“: IT‘S" 1f.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 158

01hr Earth at Mrrrg nr

3111mm ﬁumanr imagine
DR. FRANCIS H. ROVVLEY, President

ERIC H. HANSEN, Executive Vice-President
WILLIAM A. SWALLOW, Secretary

PLEDGE

I will try to be kind to all living crea-
tures and try to protect them from cruel
usage.

The American Humane Education So-
ciety will send to every person who forms
a Band of Mercy of thirty members, and
sends the name chosen for the Band and
the name and post-ofﬁce address of the
president who has been duly elected, special
Band of Mercy literature and a gilt badge
for the president.

NEW BANDS OF MERCY

Ninety-ﬁve Bands of Mercy were or—
ganized during June. These were dis-
tributed as follows:

Georgia ................... 64
Florida .................... 24
Virginia ................... '7

_ Total number Bands of MerCy organ-
ized by Parent-American Society, 268,364.

SUMlVIARY OF FIELD WORK

Number of addresses made, 87
Number of persons in audiences, 4,561

4%

Dog Learns Sign Language

0 say that a dog doesn’t think and
put his thoughts into action would
be to discount stories of his accomplish-
ments in our military service, or dis-
believe one’s eyes upon observing a
seeing-eye dog safely guide a sightless
man to his destination through dangerous
trafﬁc, or consider as a ﬁgment of the
imagination dogs which serve as ears for
deaf mutes, or say that evidence proving
dogs do think is just so much poppycock.
As further proof, however, that dogs
do think, is the achievement of “Butch.”
Butch is a bright—eyed little terrier owned
by Charlie Moskowitz, a deaf mute, of
Greenville, S. C. Quite naturally, and
with good ground for his claim, Charlie
will tell you with pride in his voice that
Butch is the smartest dog in town; and
the townsfolk will back him up; for
Butch, believe it or not, has been edu—
cated to understand the manual alphabet
used by deaf mutes. Already the little
dog has mastered more than a third of
the characters, and he executes orders
and commands quickly and correctly, as
indicated by Charlie’s ﬁngers.

Butch’s achievement is enhanced by the
fact that he is being educated to under-
stand the manual alphabet Without sound
effects, which method is hard to under-

stand even by human beings, let alone
a dog.

—Sam Eiffel

"SCREECH" IS QUITE AT HOME IN HER "MICK."

August 194.4

 

Sea Dogs Go to War

;. By W. J.

CREECH,” the small mascot of a
8 Canadian destroyer, snuggles in her
made - to — size “mick” (hammock)
when she is not too busy at her job of
ruling the ship’s company with a rod of
iron. Practically every ﬁghting ship has
at least one mascot, and several dogs have
adopted the traditional sailor’s hammock.
It is quite a trick to stay put in the sway-
ing berth when a heavy sea rolls the
little ship about, but Screech knows how
to accomplish it. Like all navy mascots,
she is reputed to guarantee that the ves—
sel’s good fortune will continue as long as
she is aboard. That is one reason why
sailors will go to any length to guard
and care for the ship’s pet.
“Alma,” a fox terrier who “adopted”
a United States cruiser, traveled across
the seas many times as the ship took
convoys to England and Australia. Then,
one evening at San Diego, Alma accom-
panied her special pal, a sailor known as
Foghorn, on a tour of the waterfront.
Foghorn was in such a hurry to get
aboard ship by midnight that he forgot
all about Alma, who was left behind. The

BANKS

ship sailed unexpectedly before morning,
and the repentant Foghorn faced the
wrath of a frantic crew. When the ship
reached New York, the men sought the
aid of the press and Alma’s sad case re-
ceived nation-wide publicity. Two months
later she was found, still searching San
Diego for her friends.‘ She rode east in
a navy air transport and arrangements
were made for her to rejoin her ship, by
then in the Mediterranean war zone.
Many ship’s mascots have been cited
for their coolness and bravery under ﬁre.
“Bacchus,” of the Free French submarine
Rub/is, was the ﬁrst wartime mascot to
win the Valiant Dog’s decoration of the
(British) League of Dogs. Some dogs
on escort ships add to their usefulness as
morale builders by an even more prac-
tical contribution. They learn to recog—
nize the approach of aircraft long before
human cars can detect any sound. One
skipper declared that he relied chieﬂy
on his dogs for this purpose. When they
growled and pointed to the sky, he swung
his guns promptly in the direction indi-
cated—and never was wrong.

 

 

 

 




 

 

I 1/”, m)”

,u

W” $999,005; ’WWWr/my 49.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

July 1941;

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

    

 

5 '~,
a»
: r-
3 .' g .“ 1-4.?“ “'4.“ ,
' 5 . i"..__‘.. ,1 .ég'ffz,
I we... r Mk
§ 1 \ ”6}: $3,“
. \ // p 5, WWW

I Lost My Home

By FRED CORNELIUS

I AM only a little dog, and I have lost my folks.” That
is what I tried hard to tell peOple, but they would
not understand.

Once I had a ﬁne home .and a little master who played
with me every day. Every day there was plenty of food
and water, and every day I followed my master to
school or to visit some of his playmates.

I was a happy little dog in those days. I barked at
things at night, and I watched every move my master
made.

Then, one day I went on a little visit myself, and when
I came back, my master and all his folks were gone.
The house was dark, and empty, and lonesome.

The queerest feeling came over me, and I could not
keep from howling. I howled and cried all night and
all the next day. I wanted so to see my master and to
have something to eat.

Then, strange people moved into our house, and I
saw right away that they did not like dogs. They
threw stones at me, and I ran away.

I tried to 'ﬁnd my master. I went to the school to
look for him, but no scent of him was there. I went
to all the places that we had been together, but he was
at none of them. I ran all over town but nowhere could
I ﬁnd a trace of my master.

Photo by Eugene W. Gustafson

"LICKING THE AXIS"

 

 

2
E,

 

_..jﬂlu llhh“n13‘lll“\\ 5

 
 

I was miserable, and hungry, and dirty. My feet
were sore, and I had cried so much that I was almost
blind. People did not want me around. Everywhere
I went they threw stones at me, and one of them hit
me on the leg and crippled me.

I was more dead than alive, and never had I been so
hungry. I thought I would die.

Then, I hobbled back to my old home. It would do
no harm to take one more look. Maybe I could slip
into my old bed in a cozy corner and rest awhile.

A lot of people were standing in the front yard. One
of the boys was crying, and all the other people looked
sad.

Then, the boy who was crying turned his head
towards me, and my heart leaped with joy. The boy
was my master! He ran to me, and before you could
count ten, he had me in his arms. He laughed and cried
at the same time. He hugged me so tightly that it hurt,
but I did not care.

He took me to our new home and fed me and put me
to bed. Now we are all happy.

4%

 

 

SuSIe
By MARJORIE FREEMAN CAMPBELL

Susie came to our house
When she was very small;
Came walking uninvited
Into mother’s spotless hall. ,
Mother said, "Get out of here! l
Scat! Someone put her out!”

For Susie’s muddy, kitten paws

Left track marks all ahout.

 

 

 

Susie came to our house

And sat outside the door;

Sat shivering while the raindrops

Made her wetter than before. 1‘;
Mother sighed, "Oh, hring her in! 3;
Why is it, do you think, l
That all stray cats and puppy dogs ‘ ‘1
Come here as straight as wink?” 3;

 

Susie came to our house

A long, long time ago;

And everybody loves her

For she’s always let us know,

By purring hard and heing good,

How very glad she s heen

That it was our house that she found,
And we who took her in!

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 166

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

The Road Runner

fect the greatest meat eater

among the birds, the Road Run-
ner. He is also called the Chaparral-Cock,
the Snake-killer and Paisano. His diet
consists of spiders, cutworms, centipedes,
grasshoppers, bees, horned toads and
snakes. Lizards are his chief dish as he
literally divebombs down upon them, pin-
ning them to the rock or sand with his
sharp beak, much in the same manner
as our planes pick off our enemies.

He also does guard duty along the
same stretch of fence or roadway and at
almost the same time each day, since he
lives in the same locality year after year.
When traveling was done by stage coach
in the old days of the West, the Road
Runner would astonish the passengers by
running ahead of the horses for a mile or
so. They get their name from this fact.

Since their wings are not as well devel-

MEATLESS Tuesday will not af-

oped as their legs they depend on run-
ning to escape from danger. If a mother
bird sees a stranger in the vicinity of her
nest, she will drag along a leg or wing
in such a manner that one naturally sup-
poses she is hurt. When she sees that
the intruder has followed her far enough
from the nest, she then recovers quickly
and runs away.

The Road Runner is one bird that, if
seen, is never forgotten, with his bristle
topknot which waggles with his thoughts,
his face like a snake with a wide split
mouth and a long tail which is as sensi-
tive as a radio, recording his emotions.
He measures two feet from tip to tail
and is of a coppery green coloring which
blends into his surroundings. He is as
mischievous as a small boy, as funny as
Abbott and Costello and as fast as a
racehorse.

——R. S. O’Connor

a

The Horned Toad . . . By WINIFRED HEATH

HIS interesting member of the liz-
ard family has suffered a deal
of misunderstanding. He is not
a toad, nor is he the dangerous, quarrel-
some creature so many believe him to be.
There is good reason for the horned
head and tough sides—they help him
dig out his burrow and keep off hungry
enemies. His home is on the desert with
no place to hide so in addition to his scaly
covering he has an additional protection
———which he only uses when cornered.
When danger threatens he usually
scurries into his burrow with such speed
that the human eye can hardly keep up
with him—especially in the desert where
everything looks alike. But if he cannot
run away he turns, comes close, and
squirts from the corner of his eye a jet
of blood. This not only surprises the
enemy but blinds him, for that odd shot

produces very painful results.

However, it seems that this process
weakens the lizard and it usually lies
out ﬂat on the ground and sometimes
puffs out its body. Its eyes protrude,
and it is altogether rather an unhappy
looking object. This is probably why the
Horned Toad much prefers to retreat to
his burrow.

Down in the southwestern states, which
is its native habitat, the Horned Toad
is often treated as a pet. Naturally they
are the source of considerable puzzlement
to the home dog or cat, but even the most
skittish kitten or inquiring pup soon
learns to keep out of range of that horned
head with its. queer-acting eyes.

There are horned toad legends which
give the creature credit for staying alive
when buried. Rip Van Winkle, a famous
Texas Horned Toad is said to have lived

September 1944
Bees . . . The Original

Air-Conditioners

IR conditioning is a fairly recent ad—

dition to our many blessings——but

those clever little insects, the bees, have
known about it all along.

When honey season is in full swing,
the nectar being transformed into honey
is kept at a necessary even temperature
by an unique method of refreshing the
atmosphere within the hive. Two sec—
tions of bees station themselves in such
a way that their constant fanning keeps
the air in motion. One section keeps fresh
air ﬂowing into the hive, while the other
sends the stale air out of it.

During this period the temperature
inside the hive is never allowed to rise
over ninety-four degrees Fahrenheit.

—Ida M. Pardue

@

Phantom Action
By JANE SL-OAN

In changing light so dim,

So soft, it made the tree’s

Motion seem quite leisured,

We saw them move. A limb,
Low-hung, was the living frieze
That held this scroll of measured
Beauty, cloaked in play.

From out the hidden nest

Eight tiny rabbits came
Stiff-legged and shy. Their gay,
Staccato hops expressed

The joy of a prankish game.
Then the mother, just at night,
Called them back. Now thought
Of action, creature-wise,

Clings there in any light,

And a myth that rabbits wrought
Is the pine branch in disguise.

31 years sealed in a cornerstone. Scien—
tists declare this is impossible but even
scientists are sometimes wrong. Accord—
ing to all the laws of aviation the bumble—
bee is not built for ﬂying—ebut she goes
ahead and ﬂies just the same, So per-
haps the Horned Toad can suspend ani—
mation for long periods—he might tell
us himself if he could speak.

 




 

 

 

 

Page 226

Animals That Seldom Drink
By WILLIS P. KNIGHT

NINETY-NINE people out of a hundred will tell you with
sureness of mind—“Of course, all animals need to drink
water at least once a day.”

That is an erroneous belief, for there are many animals
in the world that go for a period of from a month to two or
three years without being able to secure drinking water. The
only moisture they obtain is from morning dew or from the
ﬂeshy leaves of plants. Right in our own country are little
animals that do not even care for water if it is set before them.

One might suppose that such animals have means of storing
water supplies as does the camel, with his stomach of several
divisions. The camel drinks very generously and his stomach
acts as a reservoir so that he can travel across the desert and
not be obliged to drink for several days. A few animals do
absorb moisture in their bodies during the rainy season of the
country where each lives but others do not even meet with a
rainy season.

In the Paciﬁc Ocean liesan uninhabited land known as
Henderson’s Island. It is about six miles long, has no annual
rainfall, no swamps or water holes and no springs. It is the
dryest place imaginable and yet on that island live rats, lizards
and about half a dozen birds, of various species. The birds
may be able to ﬂy 120 miles to Pitcairn Island and ﬁnd water
but the rats and lizards stay there at home and get absolutely
no drinking water as long as they live. What moisture they
' get comes from dew and from a few desert: plants that grow
on the island.

If you were to go to the Sahara Desert you would ﬁnd wild
pigs living along its border foothills. This region has rainfall
perhaps once in two or three years and it is not of a suﬂicient
amount to ﬁll up deep water holes or cause springs of water to
form. These wild pigs get what moisture they can from the
thick, ﬂeshy leaves of the cactus. .

One of the most interesting animals that does not seem to
need an abundant supply of water is a small rodent known as
the pocket mouse which lives in our own deserts. It receives
its name because each cheek has a fur-lined pocket on the out-
side and in this it stores food such as nuts, etc. This tiny
creature thrives where water seldom falls and where springs

are very rarely encountered. If one of them is kept in captivity : ,
and water is offered, it may taste it out of curiosity but:s.eldam-' " _
takes a real drink. It will live for months on nothing but seeds j,

well dried and thus does not gain any moisture. ' ' +-

In the western part'of'this' country is another rodent-,the ~

wood rat, that lives in’ a' place where .rain falls not more fre-
quently than once a year and in the Sonora desert is the
kangaroo mouse that does not drink from water hole or spring
and gets its moisture from desert plants. 'In nearly all deserts

rain does fall in great quantities when it ﬁnally comes and}.
the plants soak up enormous quantities of the water and thus”

are enabled to live until the next rainfall appears in from one
to three years.

. Among the large animals that seldom drink may be men-
tloned the prong-horned antelope, and the mountain sheep of
nearly every land where rainfall is scarce. In fact, a moun-

tain sheep seems to be the hardies‘t' of 3all mammals and can ‘go' ' '

from three to ﬁve months with no water to drink.

@

ARVETH WELLS says if an elephant has ﬁve toes in front
and four behind, he comes from Asia; if four in front
and three behind, he hails from Africa. An elephant from
Asia has one tip on the end of his trunk; an African, two.
If his trunk is smooth he is Asiatic; if apparently in segments,
he is African. The ears of an Asiatic elephant are about two
feet long and» rather ragged; an African’s is abOut the size
Of a piano.

ANIMALS

Were You There, Little Lamb?
By LILLIE KRONK LEE

OUR DUMB

  

Were you there, little lamb, on that glorious night,
When Judea was bathed in ethereal light

And the shepherds became ”sore afraid" at the sight?
V Were you there—little lamb—were you there?

Were you there when the heavenly host loudly sang,
”Peace on earth and good will toward men?” How it rang
Till a joy never known gave to life a new tang!

Were you there on that night, little lamb?

Were you there when the shepherds who followed the Star

Met, in Bethlehem, Wise Men who came from afar

To present their choice gifts—treasures nothing could mar?
Did you see that rare sight, little lamb?

Were you there when they knelt at the manger to pray,

As His clear baby hands were outstretched in the hay,

And the wee ”Lamb of God” gave mankind Christmas Day?
Were you there—little lamb—were you there?

4%
In His Name
By EMILY HALE

To the Ox and the Ass at Bethlehem

You looked, long years ago, upon The Child;
You saw the Kings, the shepherds, Mary mild.
But does the callous world today recall
By deed, by word, to you, that sacred stall?

 

\.
I. l n.‘
..- ..

“'

 

\l

 

 

 

 

If your rooster crows. duck quacks. dog barks. or cow moos
between l0 P.M. and 6 A.M.. in Essex Falls. N. J.. it's against
the law.

    

December 191%

 

 

 

 




 

February 19.41; OUR DUMB ANIMALS Page 25

S. S. George T. Angell

SIGNAL honor was bestowed upon the entire

humane movement by the launching of the
10,000-t-on Liberty Ship, S. S. George T. Angell, on
January 8. Christened in honor of the founder of our
two Societies, the ship was sponsored by Miss Theodora
Jones, of Newton Highlands. Miss Jones is Mr. Angell’s
grandniece.

Present at the ceremony, held at South Portland,
Maine, were representatives of humane organizations
from Maine and Massachusetts. These included Maine’s
former governor, The Honorable Percival P. Baxter,
President Francis H. Rowley and Executive Vice-Presi-
dent E‘ric H. Hansen.

One of the features of the ceremony was the
presentation, by Dr. Rowley, of a framed portrait of Mr.
Angell to the steamship company, the picture to be
hung in a suitable part of the ship.

The name of George T. Angell is being perpetuated
down through the ages. Our own Angell Memorial
Animal Hospital, envisioned and erected through the
enthusiasm and foresight of Dr. Francis H. Rowley,
bears his name. More than thirty years ago, a hand-
some horse-watering trough, with a 60-foot granite and
cement shaft, was erected in Boston’s Post Ofﬁce
Square. A school in Roxbury, Massachusetts, was
named after this true disciple of humanity and now
a Liberty Ship, under the aegis of this great name, is
going forward to help in the defeat of the enemies of
civilization and humanity.

  

(Upper right) The l0.000-ton Liberty Ship. S. 5. George
T. Angell. ready for launching at South Portland. Maine.

(Right) The launching party—(lett to right) Dr. Francis H.

Rowley. President: Captain Nicholas Smar; Miss Theodora

Jones. grandniece of Mr. Angell; former governor of

Maine. The Honorable Percival P. Baxter; Executive Vice-
President Eric H. Hansen.

(Lower right) Dr. Francis H. Rowley and Miss Theodora
Jones watch the preparations for the ceremony.

(Below) Dr. Rowley presents a framed photograph of
George T. Angell to Captain Smar.

 

 




 

M arch 1944

quainting the public with our institutions.
Its ofﬁcers are: Mrs. Robert R. Miller,
President; Mrs. Richard A. Booth, First
Vice-President; Mrs. Harold G. Duck—
worth, Second Vice—President; Mrs. Law-
rence Davis, Recording Secretary; Mrs.
Harold Treworgy, Corresponding Secre—
tary; Mrs. H. W. Stockbower, Treasurer.
Mrs. Charlena B. Kibbe is Secretary of
Public Relations.

The Winchester Auxiliary has im—
proved the Shelter, which continues as a
real service to that community. Its of-
ﬁcers are: Miss Gladys Folts, Vice-Presi-
dent; Mrs. Daniel C. Dennett, Treasurer;
Arthur H. Bryer, local agent.

In Northampton our friends have car-
ried on this past year under the direction
of Professor P. R. Lieder, President;
Miss Elizabeth A. Foster, Treasurer.

To Mrs. George D. Colpas, Chairman
of the Women’s Work Committee of
Greater Boston, goes our deep apprecia-
tion of the Committee’s untiring efforts
in providing gauze sponges and operating
drapes for the Hospital. Without this
service we should have to purchase much
expensive but very necessary equipment.

Treasurer’s Report.

The ﬁnancial report for the year 1943,
shows an actual deﬁcit in the expenses
of the two Hospitals amounting to $51,—
200.00 chieﬂy because of the large volume
of free work done, as well as many un-
collectible accounts.

Much of our work must be ﬁnanced
through the generous gifts of our friends,
and to these we express our sincere ap-
preciation. Without these faithful sup-
porters our work in bettering animal
conditions would have to be severely cur-
tailed. This must never happen and we
invoke the consideration of all to our
periodical appeals for funds.

FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

OFFICERS OF THE MASSACHUSETTS
SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION

OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS
FOR 1944

President

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY

Executive Vice-President

ERIC H. HANSEN

Vice-President

CHARLES C. BANCROFT

Honorary Vice-Presidents

His Excellency Leverett Saltonstall, Gov-
ernor of Massachusetts

His Honor Maurice J. Tobin, Mayor of
Boston

Ex-Governor Channing H. Cox, Boston

Ex-Governor Percival P. Baxter, Portland,
Me.

Adams, Edward 8., Fall River

Appleton, Miss Maud E., Boston

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Bagg, Mrs. Aaron 0., Holyoke

Bartlett, Miss Bess B., Lynn

Bartley, Hattie C., Waltham

Blaisdell, Albert B., Haverhill

Bolton, Charles K., Shirley

Booth, George F., Worcester

Burgess, Thornton W., Springﬁeld

Caldwell, Miss Louise W., Dorchester

Chambers, Mrs. Percy, Southern Pines, N. C.

Cheever, Mrs. G. J ., Springﬁeld

Coleman, Sydney H., Yonkers, N. Y.

Conant, James B., Pres. Harvard Uni-
versity

Crossman, Mrs. Howard A., Hampton Falls,
N. H.

Downey, Walter F., Boston

Ellis, Mrs. Dwight W., Springﬁeld

Fitzgerald, Hon. John F., Boston

Freshel, Mrs. Curt P., New York City

Friend, Mrs. Victor A., Melrose

Godbeer, George H., Fitchburg

Gould, Arthur L'., Boston

Griswold, Lyman W., Greenﬁeld

Kemp, E. F., Somerville

Kindel, Mrs. Charles M., Grand Rapids, Mich.

McAfee, Mildred H., Pres. Wellesley College

Murphy, Rev. W. J., Pres. Boston College

Orcutt, William Dana, Boston

Oxnam, Bishop G. Bromley, Boston

Peirce, Miss Charlotte, Boston

Ravenscroft, Mrs. M. D., Santa Barbara
Calif.

Schraﬁ't, W. E., Winchester

Schurr, Burlingham, Holyoke, Mass.

Sears, Miss E. R., Boston

Shearer, Miss Mary B., Baltimore, Md.

Thayer, Mrs. Ezra R., Boston

Upham, Miss E. Annie, Dorchester

Woolley, Mary E., Westport, N. Y.

Younglove, Wm. K., Fitchburg

Younglove, Mrs. Wm. K., Fitchburg
Treasurer: ALBERT A. POLLARD

Secretary: WILLIAM A. SWALLOW
Treasurer’s Assistant: JOSEPH MOONEY

   
 

Page 53

Counsel: PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY

& STOREY

Executive Committee

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY (BX-01710130)
ERIC H. HANSEN (ex—0min)
CHARLES G. BANCROFT
STANWOOD K. BOLTON
EDWARD G. FISCHER
JOHN R. MACOMBER
WILLIAM E. PUTNAM

Trustees of Permanent Funds

JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First
Boston Corporation

CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President and Ch. Fi-
nance Com., United Shoe Machinery Corporation

CHARLES E. SPENCER, JR., President, First National
Bank of Boston

Directors of the Massachusetts Society for

the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

Dr. Francis H. Rowley, President

William Dana Orcutt Hon. Charming H. Cox
Miss Dorothy Forbes Hon. Percival P. Baxter
Charles G. Bancroft George F. Booth

John R. Forgic Thornton W. Burgess
William E. Putnam George H. Godbeer
John R. Macomber Edward G. Fischer

Mrs. Frederic A. Washburn Charles E. Spencer, Jr.
Walter M. Kendall Eric H. Hansen
Stanwood K. Bolton Victor A. Friend

Honorary Members

Miss Ann Vogt Barnett, Delta, Pa.

Miss Hattie C. Bartley, Waltham

Mrs. B. A. Behrend, Beverly Farms

W. E. Bromage, Sutton, England
Lyndesay G. Langwill, Edinburgh, Scotland
Mrs. Sigmund Leve, Chestnut Hill

Mrs. Grace D. Proctor, Fitchburg

Charles Rowland Johns, London, England
Miss Edith Ward, London, England

Mrs. M. Ida Young, Longmeadow, Mass.
Hon. Bernard L. Sullivan, Chelsea, Mass.
Edwin H. Nichols, Fitchburg, Mass.

Miss Constance L. Abbott, Andover, Mass.
Miss Mildred Carlson, Boston, Mass.

CONVALESCING PONY RECEIVES DAILY VISITS FROM ATTRACTIVE NAMESAKE

Pretty little two-year-old "Susie'I Greenan. Roxbury. lost no time in beginning her daily

calls on this lovely Shetland ponyl whose name is a
was under treatment at the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital.

when she learned that it
Dr. Fred Keefe. of the

so "Susie."

veterinary stati. smiles approval as girl and pony get together with a little food.

 

 




 

 

 

 

ll

Page .48

 

HE aboriginals of Australia have
ll every reason to feel loyal affection
for the dingo, the native dog of
that continent. For the dingoes they do-
mesticate are not only their affectionate
and faithful companions, but they are of
the greatest use to these natives. The dogs
assist them in ﬁnding opossums, rats,
snakes, and lizards for their food. But
the black fellows—well, they aren’t one
bit grateful.

Misplaced Prejudice . . . . .

FTER years of patient effort by
A both individuals and organiza-
tions, the prejudice on the part

of agriculturists in many sections of the
country against certain of our best-known
songbirds is beginning to disappear, for
proof of their helpfulness during crop
seasons has been deﬁnitely established.
Formerly the shotgun often stilled the
cheery notes of the meadowlark on mid-
west prairie farms because it was
thought that he was too prone to help
himself to newly scattered grain, but
while generally understood to be a grain
eater, really the lark eats very little
grain, subsisting almost entirely on in-
sects. Down in the Ozarks, after an un-
usually hard winter, when one would
expect birds to be hungry for grain, the
larks were very busy working over the
ground just plowed on an upland farm;
but the angry farmer, upon killing one
and examining the contents of its stom-
ach was surprised to ﬁnd not a single
grain of his seed but a craw packed full

OUR DUMB

ANIMALS

M arch 191,4

Dingoes “ Down Under”

By MAX MEREDITH

“Dingo” is a native name, and is pro-
nounced “din-go”—1ong “o,” accent on
the ﬁrst syllable. The wild dog of Aus-
tralia is remarkable for several reasons.
It is the only species of dog, wild and
tamed, that is native to that continent.
It is the only ﬂesh-eating placental mam-
mal that is native there. The dingo is
the only wild form of the true dog. Its
fossil bones have been found in the
Quaternary strata of Australia, along
with those of the giant marsupials, the
ten—foot high kangaroos. Its remains
have even been unearthed in cavern de-
posits of the time of the glaciers.

The wild dingo hunted the great Aus-
tralian “bush” for thousands of years
before the white man came intruding
with his traps and his guns. It may have
been brought to Australia by man when
he ﬁrst set foot on that continent, thou-
sands of years ago. Color is lent to the
belief that the dingo is of Asiatic origin
and was brought to Australia by the
Malays, who visited the northeast coast
in their double-ended outrigger, swift-
sailing canoes, ages ago.

Because the animal is a serious menace
to ﬂocks of sheep and poultry, the settlers
have made constant war on the dingo. In
fact, there’s a price on their heads. Local
governments pay bounties up to two
dollars for each dingo scalp brought in

a

of grub worms and hibernating weevil
and a few weed seeds. The lark does
occasionally pull up a little sprouted
grain but not enough to do any damage.

Catbirds, robins, blue jays and some
other birds eat a great many cherries,
berries and some truck crops but the
grower can well afford to supply them.
Many fruit growers plant numbers of
mulberry and other trees and shrubs,
such as the Tartarian honeysuckle,
around the outskirts of their orchards
and gardens to feed these birds, for at
the time when the insect world is astir
and multiplying most rapidly, a farseeing
Mother Nature has provided that these
same birds are feeding the hungry young
broods. The enormous quantities of de-
structive insects are destroyed which
would soon take heavy toll of the nearby
fruit and garden products.

The little house wren, a universal
favorite, that seems to have been en—
dowed with a surplus of nerve energy—

by a hunter. Although the dingo still
roams the land in large numbers, its
eventual extermination—as a wild animal
——is not improbable.

The dingo has a wolf-like face, the
ears are rather large and erect, and the
tail is bushy. The animal is sturdily
built, short-legged, and is between a
jackal and wolf in size—that is, about
two-and—a-half-feet long, and a little un-
der two feet high. The hair varies in
color from red, sandy-brown, to black—
often marked on the back with black—
but it is usually of a reddish-brown
shade.

In the wild state the dingo does not
bark or growl, but utters wolﬁsh yowls,
especially at night. Domesticated, how-
ever, and placed among other domestic
dogs, the dingo soon learns to bark.

The dingo is domesticated by the ab-
original Australians in all parts of the
continent. The puppies of the dingo
being found by them in hollow trees and
other such places where the mother
dingoes make their lairs.

The puppies of these wild dogs are
cute and cuddlesome little rascals. But
unlike the offspring of domestic pets, the
instinct of the killer is latent within
them, and when they grow up they will
prey upon rabbits, poultry, or sheep as
soon as the opportunity offers.

By CLYDE EDWIN TUCK

never still, yet seldom too busy to sing,
even while energetically scurrying about
for enough food to satisfy her large fam-
ily of seven babies, has been known to
make no less than 250 trips in one day
with insects for her brood.

Most of our songbirds love the associa-
tion of people and will build in the imme-
diate vicinity of your residence if they
can ﬁnd a place suited to their taste. Any
place that is well sheltered and secluded,
often an old shoe or hat, is quite good
enough for the wrens.

The common warbler, which frequents
wide areas of our best agricultural lands,
often feeds her young 25 times in an
hour with insect pests. The scissor-
tailed ﬂycatcher destroys countless num-
bers of moths. The swallow frequently
lines its nest with wings from the cu-
cumber beetle fed to its young.

All of oursongbirds are the friends of
man and always ready to cooperate with
him in the production of better crops.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

il

  
      

f
é~"’cr:2c;\ﬁ§ S’E GLO6

Editor — WILLIAM A. SWALLOW
Assistant Editor — WILLIAM M. MORRILL

if?

 

 

IMPORTANT!
OUR MAIL ADDRESS

No mail whatsoever should be sent
to us at 46 Central Street. Nor-
woodI Massachusetts. This address is
simply one which we must maintain
in compliance with Post Office reg-
ulations.

Mail so addressed is sometimes
delayed a matter of weeks before we
receive it.

 

CORRECT ADDRESS

We ask your cooperation in this
matter. It will help us to serve you
more promptly if you will use our
correct address.

At the bottom of this column you
will find the address to which all com-
munications should be sent.

Please use it now and in all future
correspondence.

 

 

 

 

 

 

SUBSCRIPTION RATES

One dollar per year. Postage free to any part of
the world.

All dollar subscriptions sent direct to the office
entitle the sender to membership in either of our
two Societies.

MANUSCRIPTS relating to animals. particularly
prose articles of about 300 words. are solicited.
We do not wish to consider prose manuscripts
longer than 500 words nor verse in excess of twenty-
four lines. The shorter the better. All manuscript:
should be typewritten and an addressed envelope
with full return postage enclosed with each offering.

Published monthly by The Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals. Publica-
tion office. 46 Central Street. Norwood. Massachu-
setts. Entered as second-class matter, June 29.
I9I7. at the Post Office at Norwood. Mass.. under
the Act of March 3. I879. Acceptance for mailing
at special rate of postage provided for in section
Il03. Act of October 3. I9l7, authorized. July
I3. I919.

Address all communications to Editorial Office.
I80 Longwood Avenue. Boston I5. Mass.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Founded by Geo. T. Angell. I868
VOLUME 77—No. 8

U. S. Trade Mark Registered
AUGUST. I944

PUBLISHED BY

THE MASSACHUSETTS SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS
I AND
THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY

Officers

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY. President
ERIC H. HANSEN. Executive Vice-President
ALBERT A. POLLARD. Treasurer
WILLIAM A. SWALLOW. Secretary
PEABODY. BROWN. ROWLEY 8: STOREY. Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds

JOHN R. MACOMBER. Chairman of the Board. First Boston Corporation

CHARLES G. BANCROFT. Vice-President and Chairman Finance Committee.
United Shoe Machinery Corporation

CHARLES E. SPENCER. JR.. President. First National Bank of Boston

Massachusetts S. P. C. A.

JOSEPH MOONEY, Treasurer’s Assistant

Prosecuting Officers in Boston
Telephone (Complaints, Ambulances) Longwood 6100

L. WILLARD WALKER, Chief Officer

HARRY L. ALLEN HOWARD WILLAND
HARVEY R. FULLER *J. ROBERT SMITH

County Prosecuting Officers
HERMAN N. DEAN, Boston Middlesex and Norfolk
FRED T. VICKERS, Wenham Eastern Essex
WILLIAM W. HASWELL, Methuen
JOSEPH E. HASWELL, Methuen

FRED F. HALL, Springfield
Hampden, Hampshire and Franklin

HARRY C. SMITH, Worcester Worcester
CHARLES E. BROWN, Attleboro, Bristol and Plymouth

HAROLD G. ANDREWS, Hyannis
Barnstable, Dukes and Nantucket

T. KING HASWELL, Pittsfield Berkshire

Western Essex
Western Essex

Rest Farm for Horses and Small Animal Shelter,
Methuen

W. W. HASWELL, Superintendent

Other Small Animal Shelters of M. S. P. C. A.

Boston, 180 Longwood Avenue
Springfield, 53-57 Bliss Street

Pittsfield, 224 Cheshire Road

Attleboro, 3 Commonwealth Avenue
Hyannis, State Road, Rte. 28, Centerville
Wenham, Cherry Street

Brockton, 226 Pearl Street

Branches and Auxiliaries

Northampton Branch of Mass. 5 P C A.———PROF.

P. R. LIEDER, Pres.; MRS. ARTHUR s.' WARNER,
Treas.

Holyoke Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.—AARON M.
BAGG, Pres.; BROOKS WHITE, Treas.

Springfield Branch Auxiliary—MRS. ROBERT R.
MILLER, Pres.; MRS. H. W. STOCKBOWER, Treas.

Winchester Branch Auxiliary—MRS. RICHARD S.
TAYLOR, Pres.; MRS. WILLIAM M. BEGGS, Treas.

Boston Work Committee of Mass. S. P. C. A.—
MRS. GEORGE D. COLPAS, Chairman.

American Humane Education Society

Field Workers of the Society
Mrs. Alice L. Park, Palo Alto, California
Mrs. James D. Burton, Harriman, Tennessee
Mrs. Florida L. Byrne, Tacoma, Washington
Mrs. Katherine Weathersbee, Atlanta, Georgia
Rev. Dr. F. Rivers Barnwell, Fort Worth, Texas
Rev. John W. Lemon, Ark, Virginia
Miss Lucia F. Gilbert, Boston, Massachusetts
Rev. R. E. Griffith. De Land, Florida

Field Representative

'Dr. Wm. F. H. Wentzel, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvanla

Foreign Corresponding Representatives

E. J. H. Escobar ...................... Colombia
Luis Pareia Corneio .................... Ecuador
Leonard T. Hawksley ................... Italy

S. C. Batra ........................... India
Mrs. Marie C. E. Houghton .............. Madeira
Dr. A. T. lshkanian ................... Mexico
Mrs. Alice W. Manning ................. Turkey

2’?

Angell Memorial Animal Hospital
and Dispensary for Animals

180 Longwood Avenue—Telephone Longwood 6100

Veterinarians

E. F. SCHROEDER, D.V.M., Chief of Staff
*6. B. SCHNELLE, V.M.D., Asst. Chief
R. H. SCHNEIDER, V.M.D.

T. O. MUNSON, V.M.D.
C. L. BLAKELY, V.M.D.
"‘M S. ARLEIN, D.V.M.

L H. SCAMMAN, D.V.M.

FRED KEEFE, V.S., B.V.Sc.
*H. R. STEADMAN, Jr., V.S., B.V.Sc., Intern
HARRY L. ALLEN, Superintendent

Springfield Branch

Telephone 4-7355
53-57 Bliss Street, Springfield, Mass.

Veterinarians
A. R. EVANS, V.M.D. H. L. SMEAD, D.V.M
*R. L. LEIGHTON, V.M.D.
H. B. SIEGLE, D.V.M.
H. 'J. KOPP, V.M.D.

*On leave .of absence— military service

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  
      

7~
GA’CIRCLPT HE (34.09

Editor — WILLIAM A. SWALLOW
Assistant Editor —— WILLIAM M. MORRILL

1’?

IMPORTANT!
OUR MAIL ADDRESS

No mail whatsoever should be sent
to us at 48 Central Street. Nor-
wood, Massachusetts. This address is
simply one which we must maintain
in compliance. with Post O'Hice reg-
ula+i0ns.

Mail so addressed is sometimes
delayed a matter of weeks before we
receive it.

 

CORRECT ADDRESS

We ask your coopera+ion in this
matter. It will help us to serve you
more promptly if you will use our
correct address.

At the bo++0m of this column you
will find the address to which all com-
munica+i0ns should be sent.

Please use it now and in all +u+ure
correspondence.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SUBSCRIPTION RATES

One dollar per year. Postage tree to any part
oi the world.

All dollar subscriptions sen+ direc+ +0 the office

entitle the sender to membership in either 0+ our
two Societies.

MANUSCRIPTS relating to animals. par+icu-
Iarly prose articles of about 300 words. are
solici+ed. We do not wish to consider prose
manuscripts longer than 500 words nor verse in
excess of twenty-four lines. The shorter the bet-
ter. All manuscripts should be typewritten and

an addressed envelope with full re+urn postage
enclosed with each oHering.

Published monthly by The Massachuse++s Society
for +he Prevention of Cruelty +0 Animals. Pub-
lication office, 48 Central Street. Norwood, Massa-
chuse++s. Entered as second-class matter. June
29, I9I7, a+ the Post Office at Norwood. Mass..
under the Ac+ oi March 3. I879. Accep+ance for
mailing at special rate of postage provided for
in section lI03. Act of October 3, I9I7,
authorized. July I3I I9I9.

Address all communications +0 OUR DUMB
, ANIMALS, I80 Longwood Ave.. Boston I5. Mass.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Founded by Geo. T. Angell. I868

VOLUME 77—N0. II

PUBLISHED BY

U. 5. Trade Mark Regis+ered

NOVEMBER. I944

THE MASSACHUSETTS SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS

THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY

AND

ﬁr

Officers
DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, Presiden+
ERIC H. HANSEN, Execu+ive Vice-Presiden+
ALBERT A. POLLARD. Treasurer
WILLIAM A. SWALLOW, Secretary

PEABODY. BROWN. ROWLEY & STOREY. Counsel

ﬁr

Trustees of Permanent Funds

JOHN R. MACOMBER. Chairman of the Board, Firs+ Boston Corporation
CHARLES G. BANCROFT. Vice-President and Chairman Finance Committee,

Uni+ed Shoe Machinery Corporation

CHARLES E. SPENCER, JR., Presiden+, First National Bank of Boston

Massachuse++s S. P. C. A.

JOSEPH MOONEY, Treasurer’s Assistant

Prosecuting Officers in Boston
Telephone (Complaints, Ambulances) Longwood 6100

HARRY L. ALLEN
HARVEY R. FULLER

County Prosecuting Officers
HERMAN N. DEAN, Boston
FRED T. VICKERS, Wenham
WILLIAM W. HASWELL, Methuen
JOSEPH E. HASWELL, Methuen
JOHN T. BROWN, Springfield

HARRY C. SMITH, Worcester
CHARLES E. BROWN, New Bedford

Western Essex E. J. H. Escobar ...................... Colombia
Luis Pareja Cornejo .................... Ecuador
Western Essex Leonard T. Hawksley ................... Italy
5. C. Batra ........................... India
Hampden, Hampshire and Franklin Mrs. Marie C. E. Houghton .............. Madeira
Worcester Dr. A. T. Ishkanian ................... Mexico
Mrs. Alice W. Manning ................. Turkey

7’):

American Humane Education Society

Field Workers of the Society
Mrs. Alice L. Park, Palo Alto, California
Mrs. Florida L. Byrne, Tacoma, Washington

Mrs. Katherine Weathersbee, Atlanta, Georgia
L. WILLARD WALKER. Chief Officer Rev. Dr. F. Rivers Barnwell, Fort Worth, Texas

HOWARD WILLAND
"‘ J. ROBERT SMITH

Middlesex and Norfolk
Eastern Essex

Bristol and Plymouth

HAROLD G. ANDREWS, Hyannis
Barnstable, Dukes and NantuCKet

T. KING HASWELL, Pittsfield

Rest Farm for Horses and Small Animal Shelter,
Methuen

W. W. HASWELL, Superintendent

Other Small Animal Shelters of M. S. P. C. A.

Boston, I80 Longwood Avenue
Springfield, 53—57 Bliss Street

Pittsfield, 224 Cheshire Road

Attleboro, 3 Commonwealth Avenue
Hyannis, State Road, Rte. 28, Centerville
Wenham, Cherry Street

Brockton, 226 Pearl Street

Branches and Auxiliaries

Northampton Branch of Mass. S. P.
P. R. LIEDER, Pres.; MRS. ARTHUR S. WARNER,

Treas.

Holyoke Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.—AARON M.
BAGG, Pres.; BROOKS WHITE, Treas.

Springfield Branch Auxiliary—MRS. ROBERT R.
MILLER, Pres.; MRS. H. W. STOCKBOWER, Treas.

Winchester Branch Auxiliary—MRS. RICHARD S.
TAYLOR, Pres.; MRS. WILLIAM M. BEGGS, Treas.

Boston Work Committee of Mass. S. P. C. A.—
MRS. GEORGE D. COLPAS, Chairman;

Berkshire

Rev. John W. Lemon, Ark, Virginia
Miss Lucia F. Gilbert, Boston, Massachusetts
Rev. R. E. Griffith, De Land, Florida

Field Representative
Dr. Wm. F. H. Wentzel, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

Foreign Corresponding Representatives

Angell Memorial Animal Hospital

and DiSpensary for Animals

180 Longwood Avenue—Telephone Longwood 6100

Veterinarians

E. F. SCHROEDER, D.V.M., Chief of Staff

G. B. SCHNELLE, V.M.D., Asst. Chief
R. H. SCHNEIDER, V.M.D.
T. O. MUNSON, V.M.D.
C. L. BLAKELY, V.M.D.
*M. S. ARLEIN, D.V.M.
*L. H. SCAMMAN, D.V.M.
*W. A. WILCOX, D.V.M.
N. L. GREINER, D.V.M.

FRED KEEFE, V.S., B.V.Sc.

C. A.—PROF.

W. D. JONES, V.S., B.V.Sc.
HARRY L. ALLEN, Superintendent

Springfield Branch

3;;5?
goal—5U

Telephone 4-7355
53-57 Bliss Street, Springfield, Mass.

Veterinarians

. EVANS, V.M.D.
. LEIGHTON, V.M.D.
. SIEGLE, D.V.M.
. KOPP. VM
M. BARL

D

0\>'</, 'vIMp.
*On leave of absence—military service

 

 

 

 

 




 

October 1944

 

"Sinbacl" gets a check-up.

Famous Mascot in Hospital

R. TODD O. MUNSON, of the vet-
erinary staff of the Angell Me-
morial Animal Hospital, gives a physical
examination to “Sinbad,” famed mascot
of a Coast Guard combat cutter and
veteran of many crossings of the stormy
North Atlantic. Hospital nurse, Miriam
Puffer, is shown assisting Dr. Munson.
Many anecdotes about Sinbad’s escapades
have become classics.

@

Fined for Kicking Dog

‘ITH the statement, “A man who

kicks a dog is pretty far down in
the world,” Judge A. Z. Goodfellow re-
cently ordered a Fitchburg, Mass, resi-
dent to pay a ﬁne of $100 for cruelty to
an animal.

Harry C. Smith, Worcester Prosecut—
ing Ofﬁcer for our Society, testiﬁed that
he went to the man’s place of employment
and that the defendant admitted kicking
the dog, but refused to discuss the matter
further.

He later claimed, however, that the dog
attacked him and nipped at the cuffs of
his trousers, but under cross-examination
admitted that he did not know whether
it was that particular dog or a younger
one that was running and barking in the
same vicinity.

The owner of the dog testiﬁed that the
man came out of a store and without any
provocation on the part of her pet, kicked
the animal so hard that the dog fell help—
lessly on the sidewalk.

The attending veterinarian stated that
the dog died before medical assistance
could be given. The animal suffered a
rupture, a broken back leg, abdominal
bruises and possible fractures of the ribs.
In the veterinarian’s opinion the dog was
kicked twice, if not three times. He also
stated that he had attended the animal
several times in the past and that the
animal was exceptionally docile, was not
a barker and was too feeble to cause
injury by biting.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

“Oops, Sorry”

OR some weeks a ward of a United
States general hospital in England
has been having a constant visitor. A
squirrel, anxious to foster Anglo-
American relations, has been putting in
regular, twice-daily appearances punctu-
ally at eight in the morning and six in
the evening. His routine has been a fairly
simple one, a run completely around the
ward and then out again.

Recently, a solicitous wardman decided
that the guest should be fed, and started
to leave a small saucer of milk somewhere
along the path taken by the squirrel. This
changed the itinerary only slightly—the
squirrel would run in, dash for the milk,
and then continue his cycle before leav-
mg.

Several times he has entered the wrong
ward. He does not go very far before
he realizes the error, and then sits back
on two legs as if to say, “Oops, sorry,”
and runs out to ﬁnd the right ward.

 

John T. Brown.

New Officer

E introduce, this month, Mr. John

T. Brown, new appointee to the
ofﬁce of Prosecuting Ofﬁcer in Spring—
ﬁeld, covering the counties of Hampden,
Hampshire and Franklin.

In 1931, Mr. Brown joined the Mas-
sachusetts State Police, having trained
at Commonwealth Armory, and gradu-
ated as an expert horseman. He has been
stationed at Concord, Topsﬁeld and Fram-
ingham barracks as well as in the ofﬁce
of the State Treasury in the State House,
in Boston.

His great love of horses and his past
experience with the State Police will,
undoubtedly, be of great assistance to
him in the execution of his new duties.
We wish him success in his new work.

Mr. Brown replaces Mr. Fred F. Hall,
who resigned recently.

Page 195
Black Cats

On Hallowe'en at midnight, years ago

When Shaman was the Druid Lord of Death,

And men bowed down to oak and mistletoe,

The souls—ot-wicked-men were made the
breath,

At Shaman's dark command, of all the
beasts.

To combat this, great altar tires were built,

And rituals were uttered by the priests

To rid the lowly animals of guilt.

The witches sought revenge with much ado,

And might have won—the witches voUch for
that—

But everywhere rose cats ot Stygian hue,

And every witch was conquered by a cat.

—Christine Park Hankinson

@

Abandoning Animals

N its annual appeal to all animal own-
ers, The Massachusetts S. P. C. A.
recently urged all those having pets, espe-
cially returning vacationists, not to
abandon their pets under any circum-
stances.

“Many well—meaning citizens,” stated
Society ofﬁcials, “are too likely to lose
sight of the fact that these unfortunate
creatures, left behind to forage for them;
selves, will ultimately starve or become
diseased as a result of 's‘l‘uch unkind and
inconsiderate treatment.“ We, therefore,
cannot stress too strongly the importance
of vacationists taking their pets with
them when returning to the city, thereby
eliminating untold suffering to the ani-
mal world.”

As has been the Society’s custom for
many years, placards were posted at vari-
ous resorts throughout the Common-
wealth, warning against abandoning
animals. A reward of twenty dollars is
offered by the Society for the conviction
of anyone guilty of such crime.

In the picture, Mr. Herman N. Dean,
Prosecuting Ofﬁcer for the Society, and
nine—year-old Mary O’Connor, of Rox-
bury, holding her much-loved tabby,
“Mitzi,” are shown viewing one of the
posters.

REWARB $20

Ahaadeaiitz 33‘

 

Kitten refuses to look.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 132

 

 

 

 

 

HUMANE KEY CONTEST

We ask all those who have sent
entries to our Humane Key Contest
to have patience. The iudges are now
at work. but the many excellent manu-
scripts must be read carefully in order
to judge their individual merits.

- We hope to announce the winner in

the next issue and each of the con-
testants will be notified as soon as
the results are known.

 

 

 

 

 

 

T houghtless Cruelty

HE stiﬂing interior of a car, parked
in the broiling sun, is no ﬁt place to
leave the family pet. No more pitiful
sight can be imagined than such a car
with windows closed, or with, perhaps,
one window down a half inch or so, and
within a panting dog, frantically seek-
ing a breath of air.

Under such conditions the inside of an
automobile can become a veritable oven
and too often dogs have succumbed to
heat prostration.

We ask owners to park their cars in the
shade and lower windows from one to
two inches so that there will be a con—
stant circulation of air. Cars are some-
times parked for hours at a time and if
an animal is to be left inside, it is not
too much to ask that these few rules for
the dog’s health and comfort be followed.

:3
Useful Toad

. GLY as a toad,” may be a common
expression and perhaps to some de-
scriptive of this little animal. Ugly as it
may be, however, we bes-p-eak the utmost
consideration of its welfare. It is a true
friend of mankind and the common toad
should be welcomed: on the farm or
around the many victory gardens which
dot the landscape today.

This creature is the sworn enemy of
many injurious insects which prey upon
trees and garden produce. Among these
pests are the plum and apple curculios,
potato beetle, tent caterpillar, canker-
wcrm and gipsy and brown-tailed moth
caterpillars. According to the U. S. De-
partment of Agriculture, about 98 per
cent of the toad’s food is of animal origin,
and more than 60 per cent consists of
harmful insects.

EDITORIALS

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

July 19.41;

 

 

 

Pet Ownership

HE owning of a pet is indeed a privi-

ilege———a privilege, since such owner-
ship entails a partnership between man
and animal with most of the good derived
accruing to the man.

After all, a dog receives food, shelter
and companionship and craves no more;
the owner receives companionship, adora-
tion and a spiritual emolument not to be
compared to more worldy beneﬁts.

But with such privilege comes also a
high responsibility — that of keeping
one’s pet from becoming a neighborhood
nuisance. Every once in a while drastic
ordinances are proposed for the control
of dogs and cats and such proposals will
continue with increasing frequency until
owners accept their responsibilities and
keep their pets from destructive pursuits.

In the interests of all animals, we ask
pet owners to consider this matter seri-
ously, lest irate taxpayers eventually
force through legislation to the detriment
of our animal friends.

@

Hat Feathers

T is a shameful characterization of
modern civilization that calls for the
virtual extinction of any form of animal
life merely for purposes of adornment.
And that is what has happened and is
happening as concerns feathers on wom—
en’s hats.

Some thirty of more years ago, the
ruthless killing of egrets and other Wild
fowl for the plumage trade, caused the
near extinction of several forms of bird
life. Fortunately, when the conditions
became known, treaties and laws were in-
voked which practically cut off the source
of supply.

By devious methods, however, some
plumage from these protected birds came
on the market and there is constant dan—
ger that America may awaken some day
to ﬁnd some of her prized bird life on the
extinct list.

Ultimate responsibility, of course,
rests on those women who accept or de-
mand plumes from these birds to deco-
rate their hats. Style has long been the
cause of needless suffering and the chief
source of correcting such evils will come
only in the awakened conscience of Amer-
ican womanhood.

Primeval Love
By JUNIUS T. HANlCTHETT

Love came to earth long years ago.
’Twas many million years, I ween,
And then its advent was so slow,
The traces hardly could be seen.

No scribe was present to record

This epoch in creation’s lore,

For still there ruled the reptile horde,

Their young, untended, roamed the shore.

But reptiles into mammals grew

And other reptiles, birds became.

The suckled young their mothers knew:
The nestlings when their parents came.

The years rolled on in slow advance.
The young were fed with doubled care
And shielded from the least mischance.
Devotion grew and love was there.

There is a love that conquers fear,

And buries self in sacrifice.

Ere Adam came that love was here.

Ah, mother love that thinks not twice .

Of self, though death may be the price.

Their love was sacrificial, true,
Those brutish ancestors of man.

From them a heritage he drew

Of mind and heart, the priceless two
01‘ God’s Eternal Plan.

 

"HE'S TALKING TO ME"

Commemorated in a Trust Fund given to
our Society.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 1 '72

 

 

 

Cruelty to Animals

NE of the things that strike our
ﬁghting men, who have gone so far
from home in the current war, is the
brutality with which animals are treated.
Americans and Englishmen are kinder
to animals than any other people in the
world, and our boys, who adopt stray
puppies, kittens, and even monkeys and
an odd assortment of alien animals, are
horriﬁed to ﬁnd that many people in
other parts of the world never give a
thought to the animals with which they
come in contact. They kick and beat
horses, stone dogs, and maltre‘at cats.

“The folks here are fr-ightfully cruel,
Mother,” one American boy wrote home.
“It makes me shudder to see the way the
farmers here abuse their stock. Why,
the way they slaughter is terrible. And,
if an animal is hurt so bad that it must
die, they never think of putting it quickly
out of its misery. They just kick it aside
and let it die in misery.”

Kindness to animals is a fairly modern
idea, however, even in the United States.
Some sixty or more years ago, when the
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals was ﬁrst founded, horses, in
particular, were subjected to a good deal
of inhuman treatment. They were some-
times terribly beaten, and the law did
nothing to prevent it. Now, however,
we have laws with teeth in them which
can be invoked against those guilty of
mistreating the so-called lower animals,
and even such lowly creatures as hens
and turkeys are «protected.

Children in our schools are taught to
be kind and considerate to the living
things which are incapable of protecting
themselves, and the fact that the furred
and feathered creature-s have rights
which human beings are bound to respect
is instilled in American children from
the very ﬁrst. The result is that, as a
people, we and the English treat animals,
domestic as well as wild, better than they
are treated anywhere else in the world.

That is the reason bull ﬁghting, the
national sport of Spain and of most South
American countries, seems to us an
abominable thing. The Japanese are no-
tably brutal toward animals, as might be
expected. We Americans, of course, have
plenty of faults. But we can take what
satisfaction there is in knowing that we
treat all of God’s creation better than
almost any other people.

——The Springﬁeld Union

EDlTORIALS

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

September 1944

 

 

 

Caged Animals

A MORAL can clearly be drawn from
the tragedy at the New York Zoo
that recently cost a young woman an
arm. The ﬁrst step, of course, is obedi—
ence to the admonition not to disturb
caged wild animals, but back of all this
is the conclusion that if wild animals
were left in their natural habitat, from
which they are fast disappearing, such
risks would not occur.

Harold W. Fairbanks truly said, “The
most important thing we can do to bring
wild creatures back again is to let them
alone.”

It seems to us that the keeping of
animals in captivity, the unnecessary ex-
ploitation of animals for pleasure, the
training and exhibition of animals on
the stage are just as cruel, in their own
way, as. are the many abuses against
which legislation has been enacted by our
law makers and enforced by humane so-
cieties throughout the nation.

Though it may be true that Americans
are generally kind, there are still many
customs which should be abolished in the
interest of animal life.

4%

New Ofﬁce in New Bedford

THE Massachusetts Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals
has just announced the transfer to New
Bedford of Mr. Charles E. Brown,
prosecuting ofﬁcer for Bristol and Plym—
outh counties, effective September 1st.

Mr. Brown, who for many years has
made his headquarters at the Society’s
Shelter in Attle‘boro, serving the same
areas, will resume his duties at 594
Pleasant Street, New Bedford. On and
after September 1st, therefore, residents
of that territory are urgently requested
to refer to him at the new address all
complaints of cruelty to animals, which
will be promptly investigated.

Mr. William J. Lees has been appointed
to replace Mr. Brown at the Attleboro
Shelter, 3 Commonwealth Avenue, and
will reside on the premises. Needless to
say, he will render the same prompt and
efﬁcient ambulance service as in the past,
answering all requests to call for sick,
injured or unwanted animals, in so far
as tire and gasoline restrictions permit.

 

IN THE EDITOR’S LIBRARY

/

THE STRANGE ADVENTURES OF
MR. TURTLE, Clarence Hawkes.

The literary career of Dr. Hawkes is
most remarkable. Though stricken with
total blindness at the age of thirteen,
the distinguished naturalist, poet, lec—
turer and story-teller supplements his
record of indomitable courage and out—
standing achievement in the face of great
adversity. He is the author of well over
ﬁfty books.

His latest book may well be described as
a cleverly conceived whimsical story of the
early years of American history as seen
through the eyes of a turtle. Many his-
torical events are interwoven with the
adventures of Mr. Turtle and his animal
associates, from the landing of the Pil-
grims down to the era of the autos.
Children, we believe, will take eagerly to
history told in this way.

176 pp. $2. Harbinger House, Fourth
Avenue, New York.

:13
Riches

Being poor, then I must look

For lovely sonnets in the brook,
And all the music I can know

Is in the wind-embroidered snow;
Yet do not grieve for me, for I

Have flaming murals in the sky.
And my sedan and tootman are

The nightwincl and the clearest star.

And do not weep that this is so!
Hast seen birds teatherstitching snow?

—eCarolirie Henry

 

 

OVER THE AIR

A weekly radio program devoted to ani-
mals may be heard each Tuesday atter-
noon at |:|5 over Springﬁeld radio station
WSPR—I270 on your radio dial. This pro-
gram is presented by Charlena B. Kibbe
and sponsored by the Massachusetts Society
tor the Prevention ot Cruelty to Animals.

Programs will be as follows:

September 5—"Animals in the News."

September |2—"Emergency Care and
Treatment of Animals."

September l9—"True Dog Stories."
September 26—"Animals in General."

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

Page 282

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Our Dogs of War

HROUGH the storm of the recent

political campaign and action on the

war fronts, an ugly story poked its
head, arousing animal-loving Americans
to heated discussion. The story, a news-
paper article, stated that hundreds of
surplus K-9 veterans were to be auctioned
off to the highest bidder.

In response to the multitude of pro-
tests received, our Society wrote to vari-

ous sources in an effort to gain ﬁrst-hand _

knowledge and to clarify the situation.
The result of these investigations is most
reassuring.

Government authorities have plainly
stated that the newspaper stories were
misleading and tended to give the wrong
impression of the proposed sales.

The two major points that have been
cleared up indicate that the dogs will
not be offered at auction, but rather, will
be sold only to approved buyers.

Instead of the thousand or more dogs
originally estimated in the newspaper
stories, we are advised that the number
to be placed runs between 120 and 150,

a

Horses’ Christmas

N CE again, this Christmastime, we
are planning to follow our usual
custom of distributing free dinners to
horses. For more than twenty-ﬁve years,
our Society celebrated this feature on
the day before Christmas as a token of
its esteem for one of man’s best friends.
As the war continues, horses are being
more and more used to replace the auto—
mobile in civilian use. We can all do our
share in showing our appreciation for
what the horse is doing for the national
war effort. Contributions of money or
grain, apples 'or carrots, sent ‘to the
Angell Memorial Animal Hospital, 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston, will provide
free Christmas dinners for horses on the
streets and in the stables. Such contribu-

tions will be gratefully acknowledged.

a

Endowed stalls and kennels are needed
in the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital.
Payments of thirty-ﬁve dollars for a
kennel or seventy-ﬁve dollars for a stall
will insure a suitable marker inscribed
with donor’s name. Terms of permanent
endowment of free stalls and kennels
will be given upon application.

only such dogs being involved whose

.owners do not want them back or are

unable to take over their care at the
present time.

The Army plans to retrain these ani-
mals and to provide all necessary in-
formation that might aid in securing
proper homes. On the basis of this
information, Dogs for Defense will take
upon itself the responsibility of investi-
gating applicants for purchase. Each
new owner will sign an agreement that
if the dog should prove unsatisfactory,
it would be returned to Dogs for De—
fense, which, in turn, has agreed to hold
it in a kennel until a satisfactory place—
ment has been procured.

Each dog will be sold for one dollar,
a token price set by the Treasury De-
partment as the only legal method of
transferring ownership.

We wish to assure our readers that our
Society will continue to watch closely the
developments which are bound to" occur
in the demobilization of War dogs and
will act, when occasion demands, in their
behalf.

The Christmas Puppy

VERY Christmas, boys and girls all
over this nation receive puppies or
kittens as gifts. It is unfortunately true,
also, that in a few weeks, animal protec-
tion societies are called in to remove
these pets—now, either sick, injured, or
just not wanted any more.

Before planning any gifts of live ani-
mals, the donor should be very careful
to assure himself that it is wanted; that
it will have a good home; that it will
receive proper care; that there will be

someone in the household willing to take

full responsibility for the animal’s care.

The giver should also consider the best
type of pet suited for the individual—a
lively dog for a lively child; a quiet type
of dog or a kitten for a little girl. En-
vironment of the prospective pet is also
most important. In crowded city dis-
tricts or apartments, a small dog or a cat
would be more suitable. Whereas, on
the farm or more rural districts, a larger
type of dog would have room for‘exercise.

We are ﬁrm believers in children hav-
ing pets. They aid materially in char-
acter building.’But we do call attention to
the disappointments and suffering often
encountered where such gifts are not
appreciated.

December 1 91,1;

 

 

OVER THE AIR

A weekly-radio program devoted to ani-
mals may be heard each Tuesday after-
noon at |:|5 over Springﬁeld .radio station
WSPR—I27O on your radio dial. This pro-
gram is presented by Charlena B. Kibbe
and sponsored by the Massachusetts Society

for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Programs will be as follows:
December 5—"Animals in the News."

,December l2—"Emergency Care and
Treatment of Animals."

December l9—"True Dog Stories."

December 26—"Animals in General."

 

 

 

 

 

 

Horse Sense

TRANDED in a small New Hampshire
town on a blizzard-whipped December
day, I joined the forum of village elders
around the pot-bellied stove in the gen-
eral store. It soon became evident that

Gramp Tinker, the patriarch and un-

official chairman of the group, had an
extremely poor opinion of human in—
telligence, as compared to “good, plain
hoss sense.” No subject discussed escaped
without his pointed comment to this
effect. ’

Suddenly the door ﬂew open, the storm
and the young village doctor burst into
the room together.

“My cutter’s stuck in a drift'down the
road,” he shouted. “The mare’s down and
kicking herself to' pieces and I can’t get
her up!”

We climbed into our outer gear and
went to see.

At the scene, experience quickly ap—
praised the situation. A coat was stripped
off, wrapped around the animal’s head,
and shortly she was back on her feet.

Later, trooping back into the store,
the user of the coat remarked, with some
justiﬁcation I thought, that this was one
occasion when a man had been smarter
than a horse.

“Nope,” said Gramp Tinker imperturb—
ably, testing his proximity to the cracker
barrel, “Not smarter. You just tricked
her back to your level. Most of us
wouldn’t keep getting up and going on
either, if the Lord hadn’t ﬁxed it so we
couldn’t see what was coming ten feet or
ten _minutes ahead.”

——Paul Churcher

 




