 

 

 

 

 

 

 

14

PRESIDENT BERGH’S WESTERN TOUR.

Numerous and urgent entreaties "having been received
from the principal cities of Canada and the Western
States, particularly where kindred Societies have been
founded, that Mr. Bergh would Visit them in his ofﬁcial
capacity, he at length concluded to start on a Lecturing
Tour; and accordingly, quitting New York on the 24th
of November, went directly to Buffalo; leaving Canada
to President Angell of the Massachusetts Society, who,
he learned, was then on the same worthy errand.

- The President, in submitting this narrative of his
tour, desires to premise, by reminding his readers, that,
however distasteful to him, tobe so continually spoken
of, yet, the necessity being obvious, must be accepted
by him, as well as by the members, with that forbearance
which the inevitable always entails.

BUFFALO.

Arriving at Buffalo, the seat of the oldest and most
efﬁcient of the Branches of the Parent Society, he was
conducted to the hotel, where handsome rooms had been
provided for him, and whither soon after, Fix-President
Fillmore, Dr. and Mrs. Lord, Mr. Allen, and other dis-
tinguished persons called on him. The difficulty of pro-
curing a suitable hall was obviated by the Rev. Dr. Lord
tendering his elegant church for the occasion of the
lecture, which took place on the 25th before a large
audience, which was presided over by the EX—President
and the reverend gentleman. In presenting Mr. Bergh,
Mr. Fillmore alluded to the lecturer and to the cause, in
terms at once ﬂattering to the former and appropriate to
the latter. Mr. Bergh was assured that his effort on
behalf of “ our Speechless Slaves,” met with complete
success. After receiving the hospitality of Mr. Fillmore,

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

  

15

Rev. Dr. Lord, and Mr. Allen, at their elegant mansions,
Mr. Bergh proceeded on to Cleveland.

CLEVELAND.

Arriving on the 27th at Cleveland, he was kindly re-
ceived by the President of the Society there, Mr. Fitch,
and Messrs. Fogg, Brayton, Pettigill, Dr. Smith, and other
gentlemen, and was comfortably lodged at the hotel.
The follmving evening Mr. Bergh lectured to a large and
sympathetic audience in “Case Hall,” a spacious and
elegant structure. To the gentlemen referred to, the
President expresses himself greatly indebted for their
delicate and pressing attentions to him during his stay in
their wealthy and reﬁned city.

TOLEDO.

On the 29th he arrived at Toledo, and was lodged at
the “Boody House.” Mr. Bergh deems this a suitable
occasion to give expression to his astonishment at the
unaccountable apathy manifested by the American clergy,
as a rule, to this subject of mercy to the inferior animals.
In characterizing this indifference, he feels constrained to
admit, that opposition, if not hostility, are terms better
suited to represent their treatment of this subject, which
is most assuredly embraced within their clerical duties,
however novel it may seem, or to what extent their
apprehensions of ridicule may be awakened by its con—
templation. A moment’s reﬂection only, it would seem,
is necessary to satisfy their minds of the religious, as
well as social relations, which it bears to mankind; for it
is a maxim in ethics, that “the quality of mercy is not
strained,” nor can that person be a good citizen, or an
acceptable Christian, whose sentiments of compassion and
humanity are partial or discriminating in their application

 

 
 
  
   
 
    
  
   
 
     
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
 
 
   

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

16

to any living creature. This unworthy spirit was very
conspicuous—he was grieved to ﬁnd—in the city of
Toledo. Before his arrival, one of the most prominent
gentlemen connected with the Society there, ﬁnding that
it was impossible to procure a suitable hall for the
lecture, applied to some of the clergymen for the use of
their churches for the occasion. N othwithstanding the
apologetic terms employed by this kind gentleman, in
announcing his difﬁculty, if not failure of the favor he
asked, it was apparent that he keenly felt the reproach it
seemed to convey. The case becoming somewhat des-
perate, it was suggested that Mr. Bergh should personally
apply to the pastor of one of these ediﬁces, devoted to the
service of the most merciful God, and having assured the
reverend gentleman thereof of the purity of his intentions,
his pulpit was graciously accorded him, and he was
accordingly listened to by an earnest and deeply attentive
audience of 800 persons; and Mr. Bergh desires to give
utterance to the conviction that the learned and excellent
pastor to whom he refers—~the Rev. Mr. Williamsmwas
as well satisﬁed with the propriety of the lecture as any
one present, and so expressed himself.

It is to be hoped that the day is not far off, when the teach-
ers of divine law will universally regard this subject as
both worthy of their talents, and an imperative responsi-
bility imposed by their holy mission. To the President,
Mr. Stebbins, as well as to the very earnest Secretary, Mr.
E. H. Fitch, and his father Judge Fitch and family, he is
indebted for much kindness.

CHICAGO.
Quitting the lecture room, Mr. Bergh took the train for
Chicago, where he arrived the following morning and put
up at the Paciﬁc Hotel. Soon after breakfast he was

 




 

  

17

called on by the Hon. Mr. Dore, President of the Illinois
Society, Mr. Sharp the Secretary, and .l,’rol’cssor “Theeler,
with whom the necessary arrangements were made to
lecture on December 5th. A carriage being provided, Mr.
Bergh was taken to see the innnense “ Stock. Yards,” where,
on arriving, and it being made known to the proprietors
that he was present, much attention was shown him. As—
cending the tower attached to the‘ central building, an
accurate estimate of the 'astnessof’ this city of the inferior
animals was obtained. The same absence of the sentiment
of mercy was apparent here, which seems to characterize
all civilized countries; and the usual pounding, and other
habitual cruclties inflicted on the unresisting dumb prison—
ers, were visible. The Society keeps two efficient agents
continually at the yards, to prevent as much abuse as
possible; but our President, while walking through the
grounds, discovered a driver in possession of one of those
hickory staffs, shod at one end with a short dagger, for
plunging into the animals ; a weapon at one time in use in
New York, but abolished by the Society. On his remon-
strating with the semi-barbarian who had it, the accus—
tomed laugh, and assurance that “ it did not hurt,” followed
of course. The avarice of the fellow got the best of him,
and he sold the staff subsequently to Mr. Dore for twenty-
ﬁve cents. Mr. Bergh bears witness to the more humane
mode employed in slaughtering swine here, over that in
vogue in New York, the animals being ﬁrst struck on the
head by pointed axes, then bled.

Having received a pressing invitation to address the
students of the Chicago University, Mr. Bergh appeared
before that body, and entertained a crowded hall with a
narrative of the rise and progress of our Cause in this
country. i To use the language of Professor Wheeler
“the students were almost uproarious with delight,” at the
2

 

   
  
   
   
 
    
 

 

 

    
  
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
  
 
 
 
   
    




     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 

 

 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   

 

18

anecdotes and pathos, by turns, with which they were en-
tertained.

Finally, on the following evening, the regular lecture was
delivered in “ Kingsbury Music Hall,” a spacious and
magniﬁcent room, to a large and appreciative audience.

The Society of Chicago is doing all it can under the
circumstances; it is creating public sentiment; and it is
hoped it will, ere long, be a power in the State, under the
energetic humanity of its President, Hon. J. C. Dore, and
Mr. Wm. H. Sharp, its kind-hearted Secretary. Chicago
is now a splendid city, and cannot afford to have its citi-
zens regardless of the sufferings of its inferior friends,
or have its noble streets disﬁgured by their abuse.

ST. LOUIS.

Mr. Bergh reached St. Louis December 4th, and went to
the Planters’ Hotel, where rooms had been provided for him
by the committee. Although late at night, the reporters
of the Press were waiting to “interview ” him, which they
did, as their lengthy accounts the next morning conﬁrm.
Avoiding details, not actually connected with the purpose
of his ‘visit, Mr. Bergh passes over in silence much mat-
ter not directly associated therewith. Although generous
efforts have been made to obtain the passage of an Act for
the protection of animals, 'on the part of gentlemen resid—
ing in St. Louis, such efforts have hitherto failed. Apathy
on the part of the public, while at the same time recog-
nizing the importance of the subject, along with an absence
of concentrated and intelligent action, have paralyzed the
movement. Appreciating this state of things, our Presi-
dent prep-ared a Charter and Code of laws, and on the
occasion of his lecture which took place on the 5th of
December in “ Masonic Hall,” a large and elegant room,
he adopted the expedient of reading the charter and laws

 




 

 

 

l.
r

  

19

to his audience, asking their vote thereon. The favorable
inﬂuence of so doing may be imagined, as it constituted
each person'present, through his vote, an active, instead
of passive spectator. The effect was excellent. At the
end of~this formality, a prominent gentleman of St. Louis,
seated among the audience, arose and proposed that a com-
mittee of ﬁve persons be appointed to take the charter
and laws just read and approved to the Legislature of
Missouri on its assembling, and to effect their enactment.
This was unanimously adopted, after which the nomina-
tions of officers for the new Society was held, and resulted
in the election of Mr. McDonald, an eminent lawyer of
that city, and brother of the distinguished sculptor of New
York, for President. The press and the people have
shown themselves warmly interested in this subject, and
if the movement now made be followed up, the results
will be very auspicious for the Cause. To the Hon. 'Mr.
Partridge, late President of the Illinois Society, Mr. Bergh
expresses himself greatly indebted for many kind atten-
tions, as well as to numerous other gentlemen associated
therewith.

LOUISVILLE .

On December 6th, the President left St. Louis, and
after twelve hour’s ride reached Louisville, and put up
at the “ Galt House.” Early Monday morning, a com-
mittee of gentlemen, belonging to the Society of Ken-
tucky, called on him at the hotel; and after arranging
for the lecture, Dr. Grifﬁths conducted him to many of
the public institutions, several of which are under the
Doctor’s direction. Tuesday he dined at the elegant
mansion of Mr. Belknap, a very wealthy and sympathet-
ic gentleman with the Cause we advance.

In the evening the President lectured at “Masonic

 

 




 

 

 

20
Temple,” a pretty theatre, to a very reﬁned and numer-
ous audience, to whom he was presented by the Rev. Dr.
Haywood, a gentleman possessing the most charming
manners, and liberal and polished mind conceivable.
Major-General McDowe ‘ commanding the army of the
East, along with Major Gardner, the gentlemanly Judge
Advocate attached to his staff, were also present. The
press of Louisville, the following morning, attested the

success'of the lecture and tie supariority oj the au-
dience.

CINCINNATI.

On the following morning the President left for Cin-
cinnati, where he arrived about noon, and was met at
the station by the Mayor of the city, and the President
and a committee of the society of that place, and taken
to the, “ Burnett House.” Calls from citizens, and a
visit to the Constitutional Convention then sitting there,
occupied the remainder of the day. On December 11th,
the President lectured in “Pike’s Opera House” to a
vast audience, said to number nearly twelve hundred
perSOfns. On this brilliant occasion, his Honor Mayor
Johnston, along with President Simpkinson, presided; .
and on the stage were Messrs. Pye, Lewis, Horton, Dav—
enport, Henderson, Shipley, Sumner, Erkenbrecher,
Blower, Ballauf, Bradstreet, and Brecknall.

The Cincinnati papers in spetking of the lecture,
compare the immense gathering to the most popular
assemblages of the opera, and laud Mr. Bergh and his
address in exalted terms. The members of the Con-
stitutional Convention having been invited, were present
in large numbers, and a photograph of the scene has
been transmitted to these headquarters. Although
great enthusiasm has been generally manifested at all

 

 




 

 

 

lHllllll“).’Ili|b
n

 

‘ ‘ ‘ v .‘ ”lllzllvll:
721—;:V:--T_j IRA ; ”mu" : I“; i 1mm“ 7-
11"" IHHIIvmunnmmm - ’

 

mum.

Nil/mi“

!'
”H,”
l

k r

WWW i:

‘5 u» _
. . -. _. _ _ _ . :mmu
1' I mumm munm mu m ‘ ' ...""—-' ”I a; PM i;- -" ‘ V . ’ ' " V- ' \

' .,,.,§WW

‘ \
ll
\ A, "f I”\"1
‘ I“
\V\l| .

“WNW”!!! v-

H

_\\.
l
|

{i

 

 

 

‘-\___ I ‘
\ E P .
"\SSg ‘ " ‘ ‘ ‘ p _

‘7. -' . . _ “A fhﬁ_-i , A , ﬂ :_ ‘ "* -
“unlmnmmuu‘; ‘ L . i . , ' - ‘ “ -" are: » E‘
—-—J <f; €352: -. ,- f,

7
N
.-\

‘If‘L'TE‘Z; H." I \‘. {I
’IE‘EWWW, ' ' ' H!” I," ' I V" I”
'm!’ 'n "I.
'“f' / n I “II"
V ’ w ,-
/ ‘ ‘ ”T3", . #0‘f/ﬂl w
'{IM PM \\ .\ .‘,“.‘::_r n- A - ' '
”914» - ”I \r WW M Li: W ”WW.

‘ / Inmmn -’ ‘

\ , ' ' wUIJH
_ l

-‘—‘W I ' T / ,, ., E , , Q
( z, - V/ 7/ ' —'_"' ‘ ,,
I! : - 7 A :

IIWWHWHHWIH WW , ”fa/”ﬂ 9
_V, 7 " I'lllnln V

 

 

 

I iii—W“: :n nu
7 7 “D? m

 

“ ' .7??sz ‘ W I i 2 ‘ W” ;‘{
'1 "I ~--. I " — ‘V '3 J-‘ '
/ nu mm 1””ka {1' ;‘ {31“ , m,
’ I 1’ mi '

5 4

: 51% ~ '

" ”’“ ﬂié— V ‘ w HHHHIHJUJ'I; It \— ~—‘
HM”) W. ' ’4 £5 . WWW/'97}: m I W '1 «Mﬂtt39:99:99!!!Hum"?J=Wﬁi"\ I M ,
‘1“ V r W a: 15w,“ 4‘ ‘.- ' W ‘ "'"I|i“l"'mmﬂmlil“; “#59“ 'j “. “barf”. V'l’jjunmmquQ

‘1‘» W

‘WI
IJ
{QM—m» ‘ WW

mam: Fl- H'
W ~\ SEAL]

In; W... ,

ll L 1;} Hf
* 3' '1! W
" g

y w

W

W" I

| c
1
‘

 

“1311111.:1

_ I 21';
§___'— "Hm—L. [I

W 1;; II

 

 

-, Iﬂ‘mml IJ ..
® . rv .

W :1 ”" .»

lg‘ I. 7. K 4 X NEWMAN Immu unmmwum
\. . I - f ‘l; . I ' E \ x \ J- , )‘A .‘m uuuuuuuuu nu {Mrmﬁiﬁmum'mr‘im'mhalf I
l ,mu ‘. \‘ _
* » \ ﬁ

' \

V/
4///
/CV ,, ’7 ,
I '.n{////r’ .,//’ I '

.. /
., at 44

,,///
// 1;“;
//
//

//
. A ,1 - ,

,"/ / ; - 2' .
7 a .’, / M I;

//z/
, W
’/

// ,3
I!//
4’?

I}

/ ’ /////
, //
v,"

i ' ' 7‘
' '2‘,“ ‘ -:.’

I K‘

1’

__..._ M __> __

PRESIDENT BERGH AbDRESSING THE PEOPLE AT PIKE’S

 




 

21

these lectures, the President is of the Opinion that his
reception at Cincinnati was the most pronounced.

The charming hospitality extended to Mr. Bergh by
many citizens induced him to remain another day,
which was occupied in visiting the splendid new libra-
ry and other places of interest, including the “Stock
Yards;” and by a visit to the elegant suburban villa
belonging to President Simpkinson, where a superb Inn—
cheon was prepared for about a dozen ladies and gen-
tlemen.

COLUMBUS.

December 13th, Mr. Bergh took leave of his kind
friends, and started for Columbus, where he arrived the
same evening. The representative of the Society at this
place, Colonel Skarrett, was at the station to conduct
him to the hotel, where, soon after, Rev. Mr. Hutchings,
pastor of the First Congregation Church, called to arrange
for the lecture being given in his church the following
evening, instead of a public hall. This kind offer was
accepted.

Sunday, December 14th, Mr. Bergh lectured as pre—
viously arranged, to an immense audience, every seat
being occupied, and the aisles ﬁlled with people. The
Pastor informed Mr. Bergh, that he had never seen such
an audience in Columbus before ; and further remarked,
that “although he expected to hear an interesting ad-
dress, yet he was not prepared for anything so compre-
hensive and magniﬁcent.” The Reverend gentleman
assured Mr. Bergh that there were nine hundred per-
sons present. It is certain, that a more attentive au-
dience was never seen. It was also announced by Mr.
Hutchin s, that the citizens of Columbus were invited to
meet in the City Hall the next morning, for the purpose

 




 

  

23

gentleman, Mr. Hutchings, who came to meet him on
the very threshold of the city, to tender him the use of
the holy ediﬁce, wherein he labors with such faithful-
ness, comprehensive and intelligent piety and success,
Mr. Bergh avows his inability to do justice to his feel-
ings of gratitude. This excellent gentleman was once
pastor of a church in Brooklyn in this State; and his
appreciative congregation seem to realize the value of
their gain, as well as Brooklyn’s loss.

HOME.

Having failed to arrange with Pittsburg and Harris-

' burg, Penn, to lecture there, without necessitating too

much delay, the President terminated his gratuitous

labors and returned to New York, after an absence of
one month.

m‘..————-_

IMPORTANT DECISION OF CHIEF JUSTICE
SHEA.

The following is the decision of His Honor Chief Justice
Shea, in the case of a Stage Driver against the President
of the Society.

NEW YORK MARINE COURT, SPECIAL TER)I.——NOVEMBER, 1873.

 

DENNIS CHRISTIE (lg/(Dist HEN {Y BEQGH.
Motion to vacate order of arrest.

Ell/ridge T. Gerry, for the motion ,' ( 17/,(18. F. lit/rchnm'e,
OPPOSCCZ.

SHEA, C. J.——This is a motion to vacate an order of ar-
rest. It has been heard upon the complaint and upon
afﬁdavits read by each party to his own behalf respectively.
The decisive point of contention upon the argument of

 

 




 

   

 

    

2-4

this motion relates to the legality of the power exercised
by the defendant to arrest, or cause the arrest of, certain
offenders charged with misdemeanors and to do so with-
out written warrant. This was conceded on the argument
by both counsel ; and it is, therefore, important, and per-
haps controlling, that the scope of this action itself, is
limited by the contention on the part of the plaintiff that
the wrong complained of was false imprisonment and not
malicious prosecution. Unless there has been an un-
authorized arrest the action cannot be maintained.

The single question now before me for consideration is,
therefore, Had the defendant, at the time of the arrest of
the plaintiff, power given to him by competent lawful
authority and in an ofﬁcial capacity, to place the plaintiff
under such an arrest and detention?

These are the facts : The plaintiff is a driver of a pub-
lic stage, and on April 7, 1878, while he was engaged in
his business as driver, the defendant called a policeman
to him, and, in a public street in this city, directed that
officer to take the plaintiff immediately and without fur-
ther or other warrant into custody; charging that the
driver was then in the act of overdriving a horse which
appeared at that time to be incapable of doing the work
imposed, and that this overdriving wasin such a manner
as to incur the offense of cruelty to the animal, and was
within the act for the prevention of those offenses. The
plaintiff was then taken by that officer before a commit-
ting magistrate at the Jefferson Market Police Court;
was there, on a charge lodged by the defendant himself,
committed by the magistrate to answer for driving a horse
attached to an omnibus, the horse then being in a corn-
pletely lame condition. (Laws of 1867, chap. 875, § 1.)

The case was then tried at the Special Sessions. After
many witnesses had been examined on the part of The

 

 

 

 




 

.’n
:3" w“

 

25

. People and of the accused, the defendant being one of

the witnesses for the prosecution, the plaintiff was acquit-
ted of the charge.

By the afﬁdavits read by the plaintiff on this motion
he denies that he was guilty of any cruelty to the horse,
and denies that the horse was lame or unﬁt for the work;
and other evidence was read tending to prove the truth
of these denials.

The defendant justiﬁes his own action on that occasion
by several statutes of the State of New York, especially
one entitled “ An Act better to prevent cruelty to ani-
mals,” passed April ‘19, 1866 ; another entitled “An Act
for the more effectual prevention of cruelty to animals,”
passed April 12, 1867; and the duty and power conferred
upon “ The American Society for the Prevention of Cruel-
ty to Animals ” (Laws of 1865, chap. 4:96, passed April 10,
1866), its members and agents, of which society the de-
fendant is now, and was at the time of that arrest, the
President; and he insists that in directing the officer to
take the plaintiﬁ into custody, and in making the charge
upon which he was subsequently tried, the defendant
was acting in the performance of duty and within the
limits of his ofﬁcial powers.

The act complained of is thus confessed to have been
by the direct procurement of the defendant ; had he
authority by law to do this thing and in the manner in
which he directed it to be done?

The authority to make such arrests has been conferred
by statutes upon the members and agents of that Society,
and it is clear to me that the defendant, in procuring the
arrest of the plaintiff at the time and in the manner stated,
was doing an act within the intent of the ofﬁcial duty
and power delegated to him. I speak now and here of
the authority itself—not of its abuse.

 




  

 

 

 

26

And first, as to the power of the defendant ofﬁcially,
as an agent of the Society, and in like cases as that
under consideration, to direct and participate in arrests
for those offenSes. This power is to be found in the
Laws of 1867, chap. 375, sec. 8: “Any agent of the
American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Ani-
mals, upon being designated thereto by the Sheriff of
any county in this State, may, within such county, make
arrests and bring before any Court or magistrate thereof,
having jurisdiction, offenders found Violating the provis-
ions of this act,” etc. And then: “The police force of
the City of New York, as well as of all other places
where police organizations exist, shall, as occasion may
require, aid the Society, its members or agents, in the
enforcement of all laws which are now or may hereafter
be enacted for the protection of dumb animals.” (See
the charter of the Society, Laws of 1866, chap. 41-69, sec. 7.)

These several statutes have effectually superseded the
rule of the common law, and have enabled the Society,
directly by its members and agents, or indirectly through
the aid of police, to make such arrests.

The police are directed to act “in aid” of the execu-
tion of original authority and “as occasion may require.”
The occasion which may require the intervention of the
police force would be merely to preserve the public peace,
and secure the prisoner. (Derecourt v. Corbisl'iery, 5
' Ellis and Blackburn’s Rep. 192; Campbell, C. J., and
Earle, J ) _

The power to make the arrest being clear, then, the gist,
the essential prerequisite, of an action for a false imprison—
ment is not presentable in this case, and this cause of action
cannot be maintained. The action is brought upon a
denial of the power to arrest; the law itself is the suffi-
cient answer to this denial.

 
   

 




 

 

  

27

There is nothing averred as to there being any unrea-
sonable or abusive exercise of the power.

It is not correct to assert that the policy of this kind of
legislation, especially that which has for its purpose the
prevention of cruelty to brutes, is a regulation. of the
dominion of the private citizen over his own private prop-
crty merely. It truly has its origin in the intent to save
a just standard of humane feeling from being debased by
pernicious effects of bad example—the human heart from
being hardened by public and frequent exhibitions of
cruelty to dumb creatures, committed to the care, and
which were created for the beneﬁcial use of man.

Having now considered this case as fully as required
(perhaps as fallg as desirable), I am unable to discover any,
legal reason upon u'hich the Order of arrest granted herein
can he upheld in law, and I am, as I have already stated, of
the opinion that this action, being . founded on the assumption
of an unauthorized imprisonment, cannot he maintained on
that ground. l'Vhewfcre an order will he entered vacating
that order of arrest' and discharging the defendant, M7.

Henrg Bergh, from custody.

SPARE THE HORSE.

THE Society have furnished gratuitously, to those of
the City Railroad Companies which would accept of them,
the following notice neatly printed on cards. They are
attached to the inside of each car :

SPARE THE HORSE.

To relieve the Horses from the severe strain of starting
the cars, Passengers are requested to get on or off only at
the street corners.

 
  

 




 

 

    

28

FOUNTAINS.

IN accordance with a Resolution passed at the last An-
nual Meeting, the public authorities had been petitioned
by the Society to appropriate $75,000 for the purpose of
erecting ﬁve hundred or more drinking fountains in the
City of New York, but no favorable reply has as yet
been received.

“THE ANIMAL KINGDOM.”

THIS enterprising journal, which began its career as an
auxiliary of this Society, in January, 1873, has now, in
its second volume, been enlarged and improved. Since
the ﬁrst publication of the paper it has steadily kept
in view the fundamental principles of the Society, and
has been a eonsistant advocate of the cause of our
speechless servants—the dumb animals. The ﬂattering
reception given to THE ANIMAL KINGDOM, by the Press
and the Public, is a gratifying evidence Of the esteem in
which the journal is held. Most certainly its educational
inﬂuence cannot well be over-estimated. ‘

The subscription price of the paper is One Dollar a
Year. -
GEORGE W. JOHNSTON, Editor,

210 East 13th Street, New York City.
CHARLES W. RUSSELL, Publisher.

. . ‘ —. ' L

 




i

29

LEGISLATION.

THE Executive Committee have much pleasure in
calling the attention of the Members of the Society to
the following Bill recently passed by the Legislature.

The passage of the same is due in a great degree to
the assiduous exertions of the Hon. .Alfred IVagst-aff,
Member Of Assembly, and to Elbridge T. Gerry, Esq,
Counsel to the Society.

The following Bill was introduced by the Hon. Alfred
VVagstaff, junta, on the 7th of January last. It was re-
ported favorably by the Judiciary Committee, January
28th. Passed in Committee of Whole, and ordered to a
third reading January 29th. Amended and passed in
Assembly, February 4th, Ayes 78, Nays 3.

Introduced in Senate, February 5th, and referred to
Judiciary Committee. Reported back by same without
Amendment, and referred to Committee of the \Vhole.

Amended in Committee of the \Vhole February 9th, and
progressed. Ordered to a third reading, February 10th.
Passed by vote of 23 in Senate, February 10th. Assem-
bly concurred by vote of 82 to 2 same day.

Signed by the Governor, and became Chap. 12, Laws
of 1874:, February 11th, 1874:.

AN ACT
RELATING TO ANIMALS.
(PASSED FEBRUARY 11TH, 1874.)
The People of ”the State of jVaw York represented {a

Senate and Assembl? , do enact asfollows:

SECTION 1. Every person who shall willfully set on
foot, or instigate, or move to, or carry on, or promote, or
engage in, or do any act toward the furtherance of any act

 

 




 

 

 

30

of cruelty to any animal shall be guilty of a misde—
meanor.

SEC. 2. All agents of the American Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals shall have all the powers
now conferred on them by law. Any person who shall
falsely represent or personate an ofﬁcer, agent or member
of said Society shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.

SEC. 3. Any ofﬁcer, agent or member of said Society
may lawfully interfere to prevent the perpetration of any
act of cruelty upon any animal in his presence. Any
person who shall interfere with or obstruct any such ofﬁ-
cer, agent or member in the discharge of his duty, shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor.

SEC. 4:. Any agent or ofﬁcer of said Society may law-
fully destroy, or cause to be destroyed, any animal found
abandoned and not properly cared for, appearing, in the
judgment of two reputable citizens called by him to View
the same in his presence, to be glandered, injured, or dis-
eased past recovery for any useful purpose.

SEC. 5. When any person arrested is at the time of
such arrest in charge of any vehicle drawn by or contain-
ing any animal, any agent of said Society may take charge
of such animal, and of such vehicle and its contents, and
deposit the same in a safe place of custody, or deliver the
same into the possession of the police or sheriff of the
county or place wherein such arrest was made, who shall
thereupon assume the custody thereof.

SEO. 6. All ﬁnes, penalties and forfeitures imposed and
collected in any county in this state under the provisions
of every act passed, or which may be passed relating to,

 

 




31

or in any wise affecting animals, except where otherwise
provided, shall inure to said Society in aid of the purpose
for which it was incorporated. And no injunction shall
be granted against said Society, or any of its ofﬁcers or

‘ agents, except upon motion after due notice and hearing

thereof.

SEC. 7. Upon complaint under oath or afﬁrmation to
any magistrate authorized to issue warrants in criminal
cases that the complainant has just and reasonable cause
to suspect that any of the provisions of law relating to or
in any wise affecting animals are being, or are about to be
violated in any particular building or place, such magis-
trate shall immediately issue and deliver a warrant to any
person authorized by law to make arrests for such offen-
ses, authorizing him to enter and search such building or
place, and to arrest any person there present found viola-
ting any of said laws, and to bring such person before the
neareSt magistrate of competent jurisdiction, to be dealt
With according to law.

SEC. 8. In this act, and in every law of this State passed,
or which may be passed relating to or affecting animals,
the singular shall include the plural ; the words “ animal ”
or “ dumb animal ” shall be held to include every living
creature ; the words “torture,” '“ torment,” or “ cruelty,”
shall be held to include every act, omission or neglect,
whereby unj ustiﬁable physical pain, suffering, or death is
caused or permitted; and the words “owner” and “ per—
son ” shall be held to include corporations as well as in—
dividuals. But nothing in this act shall be construed as

prohibiting the shooting of birds for the purpose of human
food.

SEC. 9. This act shall take effect immediately.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

In! .Ia I t . |u k . r ;! \
J
~ L
m
A
m
.-
L
W/IUA.
v
A
A
V ,- v.
. .
r s - kL. . l:- -... .-. ...\

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

AMERICAN SOCIETY

'reucntiun nﬂ @1119.th to animals.
. C

II

INCORPORATED BY THE )STATE OF‘ NEW YORK.

——-—-———‘o¢o>——-———~—--~

EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT.

 

 

HEAD-QUARTERS OF THE SOCIETY.
FOURTH AVENUE (:OR. TW‘EN’I‘Y—SECOND S'I‘REE'IN

“glen? “york.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

LANGE, Lll"|Ll£ a (.20., human», Wu To 114 Woosrsn 818331“, N. Y.

 

 




 

AMERICAN SOCIETY

FOR THE

(I

mention nﬁ rueltg in ﬁnimalﬁ.

.J

JNCORPORATED,BY THE )STATE OF NEW YORK

———~<.o”>——-—

EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT.

 

 

 

1874.

 

HEADQUARTERS OF THE SOCIETY,

FOURTH AVENUE, CORNER OF TWENTY-SECOND STREET,

ﬂew work.

 

 

 




 

 

NOTICE.

—_

THE present Report is a statement of the pro—
ceedings ofthe Society during the eight months
from the 1st of May to the 31st of December,
1873. '

The year is rendered incomplete by reason of
an Amendment to the Code and By-Laws; re-
quiring that henceforth the ﬁscal year of the

Society shall begin on the 1st of January, and

end on the 31st of December of every year.

 

 




 

/ /»:; « 5m
11‘3“
1171;“ ”MT” MI ",'
MR ‘
21111111111111"

uwmmm“

UL!
11111” 1"“

{11111111111'm'll

ii / "1111‘“ m ‘
,1'111 , f 1
1111111 3,1,

‘ WI

/
#

31%11K1H' {

mm [H
1 \
Wmmmnmmm,.111. I

(Tm ‘j,
1- $33114
1:71: \ /"E 9"2:1
a

.1111

.5311 ' :

‘1
1

‘ _: ;; 3::
//}"'\; ‘1

1 1 1
\.:\'l

111

ID!

1

111711 I ‘ “ w

111 1 Q: .
1111 11 1 1

,11' )U I

,' [11 ‘L

_"U
{4’72“
,,,.r _

v=YI\, .’--"
wi$

:1]
.5‘51‘1

' M
:11/ 7“ ‘\
(1111

\ \E‘I‘

._ ~ ’ I
:"9%:; g; 1 g ‘ .:‘_“‘_'"-
(.\ 1mm”
2" id: F
V _

 

 

HEADQUARTERS OF THE AMERICAN SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF ORUELTY T0 ANIMALS,

CORNER OF FOURTH AV'ENLE AND TWEN'M SECOND STREET, NEW YORK CmY.

  




1874.

 

@tficem of the ﬁuviety,

ELECTED AT T1 IE

 

ANNUAL MEETING IN l873.

Russident.
HENRY BERGH.

Vicemqesidents.

William H. Aspinwall, John A. Dix,

Henry W. Bellows, Benjamin D. Hicks.
James Brown, John T. Hoffman,
Horace B. Claﬂin, Marshall 0. Roberts,
Peter Cooper, Moses Taylor.

Executive @ommittee.

Charles L. Anthony, Charles Lanier,
N. M. Beckwith, Frank Leslie,
John M.‘ Bixby, Charles H. Marshall,
Thomas C. Doremus, Edward Matthews,
Nathan C. Ely, Royal Phelps,
Elbridge T. Gerry, James Stokes,
Townsend Harris, Alfred Schermerhorn,
Alexander Van Rensselaer.
@qeasuqeq.
Henry Clews.
(tounsel.
Elbridge T. Gerry.
$ecqetaqg.
N. P. Hosack.

Veteqinang Slumeons.
Charles C. Grice. Alex. F. Liautard.

$upeqintendent.
T. W. Hartfield.

 




 

 

 

 

gamma; gamma.

 

ULYSSEs S. GRANT, President of the United States, ea:-
oﬂioio.

SCHUYLER COLFAX, EX-Vice-President of the United
States, ex-Qﬁicio.

 

JOHN T. HOFFMAN, EX-Governor of the State of New
York, ego-01920750.

A. S. BEACH, EX-Lieut.-Governor of the State of New
York, ew-ojﬁcz’o.

ALFRED WAGSTAFF, Hon., Member of Assembly.

 

015mm (Ex-(mama gamma.

 

The Right Hon. the Earl of HARROWBY, President of
the Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals, London.

JOHN COLAM, Esq, Secretary for the Royal Society for
the P. C. A., London.

ANGELO AMEs, Esq., of Albany, N. Y.




 

C H ARTE R.

.9.

 

 

AN ACT {0 «z’nmrpm-alc flu) AMERICAN SOCIETY FOR THE
PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS. Passed
April 10, 1866, by HM). Leyz’shv‘mv? of Me Stafe of
JVew York. PM. 1., 0/101). 469, Page 1019, of ﬂee
Revised Slate/lea.

 

SEC. 1. That John T. Hoffman, Henry Grinnell, J.
J. Astor, Jr., Geo. Bancroft, Shepherd Knapp, James
T. Brady, John A. Dix, Marshall 0. Roberts, James
Brown, Horatio Potter, Thos. H. Taylor, Erastus
Brooks, Chas. P. Daly, Moses Taylor, Geo. T. Trimble,
John D. \Volfe, Henry 1V. Bellows, Peter Cooper,
Francis B. Cutting, “’11). H. Aspinwall, John Van
Buren, Hamilton Fish, Daniel Parish, John J. Cisco, A.
Cakey Hall, John McCloskey, “7m. C. Bryant, Edward
G. Steele, Horace Greeley, Samuel B. Ruggles, James
Lenox, August Belmont, Moses H. Grinnell,1Vm. H.
Webb, J 18 Gallatin, Harper Brothers, J as. J. Roosevelt,
C. V. S. Roosevelt, Alex. Stuart, D. C. Kingsland, Jas.
W. Gerard, Joseph 1’. Beach, Geo. T. Olyphant, Oliver
S. Strong, Henry Clews, Archibald Russell, Benjamin R.
Winthrop, John A. Kennedy, Daniel Carpenter, Geo.
W. Dilks, Chas. Addoms, Geo. Griswold, Simeon Draper,
Robert L. Stewart, Andrew \Varner, Alex. T. Stewart,
Daniel Butterﬁeld, A. C. Kingsland, E. A.'\Vashburn,
M. S. Beach, John D. Jones, Frank Leslie, Wm. Coventry,
H. VVaddell, Chas. A. Bristed, Thos. C. Acton, Wn“-

 




  

 

 

 

 

 

6

McMurray, James Leonard, A. D. Russell, Henry Bergh,
all ofthe city of New York, and such other persons as
may be associated with them, in conformity to this act,
and their successors, are hereby constituted and created
a body corporate, by the name of “ The American So-
ciety for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.”

SEC. 2. The ofﬁcers of the said corporation shall con-
sist of a President, ten Vice-Presidents, one Secretary,
one Treasurer, an Executive Committee of ﬁfteen mem-
bers, and such other ofﬁcers as shall from time to time
seem necessary to this Society. '

SEO. 3. The foregoing oﬂicers shall. be chosen from
among the members of the Society.

SEC. 4. A library may be created for the use of the
‘ Society.

SEC. 5. The said Society, for ﬁxing the terms of
admission of its members, for the government of the
same, for the election, changing, and altering the ofﬁcers
above named, and for the general regulation and man-
agement of its affairs, shall have power to form a code
of By—Laws, not inconsistent with the laws of this State
or of the United States, which code, when formed and
adopted at a regular meeting, shall,'until modified or
rescinded, be equally binding as this act upon the So—
ciety, its oﬂicers'and members.

SEC. 6. This Society shall not, in its corporate ca-
pacity, hold real estate exceeding in value, at any one
time, the sum of one hundred thousand dollars.

SEC. 7. The police force of the city of New York, as
well as of all other places where police organizations

 




  

.ﬂ‘

 

7

exist, shall. as occasion may require. aid the Society, its
members or agents in the enforcement of all laws \xvhich
are now. or may hereafter be, enacted for the protection
of dumb animals.

$130.83; One-half of the ﬁnes collected through the
instrumentality of the Society, or of its agents, for Viola-
tions of such laws, shall accrue to the beneﬁt of said
Society.

SEC. 9. The provisions of this act shall be general,
within the boundaries of the State.

SEC. 10. This act shall take effect immediately.

AMENDMENT OF CHARTER.

AN ACT relative to the vauisition of real property by
the American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to

Animals, and to amend the Charter thereof. Passed
7th March, 1871.

The People of the State of New York, represented in
Senate and Assembly, do enact as follows:

SEC. 1. The American Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, a Corporation created by an Act of
the Legislature of this State, passed April 10th, 1866,
is hereby authorized and empowered to take, hold, use,
and enjoy all the lands, tenements, and hereditaments
which were by the last will of Louis Bonard devised
unto the said Corporation, for the uses and purposes in
said will expressed. And all the estate, claim, right,

* The Laws of1867 provide that all ﬁnes shall cnnre t0 the Society.

 

 




    

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

8

title and interest of the people of this State, of, in, and
to said lands, tenements and hereditaments, and every
part thereof, are hereby released, granted, conﬁrmed to
and vested in said Corporation.

SEC. 2. The Sixth Section of an act entitled “ An Act
to incorporate the American Society for the Prevention
of Cruelty to Animals,” passed April tenth, eighteen
hundred and sixty-six, is hereby amended, and shall read

as follows :

SEC. 6. This Corporation shall be capable of taking,
holding and. enjoying any real property by virtue of any
deed, or of any devise contained in any last will of any
person Whomsoever, subject to the provisions of law
relative to devises by last Will. But this Corporation
shall not, in its corporate capacity, hold real estate, the
yearly income derived from which shall exceed the sum

of ﬁfty thousand dollars.

SEC. 3. Nothing in this act contained shall in any
manner affect the right of any heir or creditor of the

late Louis Bonard.

SEC. 4. This act shall take effect immediately.

 




 

EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT

OF THE

$0M); ﬂan the ﬁltration at ($11112th to gluinmls.

 

1874.

HEADQUARTERS on THE SOCIETY,
Con. FOURTH AVENUE AND TWENTY—SECOND STREET,
NEW YORK, April (if/2, 1874. '

THE Annual General Meeting of the Society was held
this day at its Headquarters. Henry Bergh, Esq,
occupying the chair. Having called the meeting to
order, the President remarked :

GENTLEMEN,—

AT a General Meeting of the Society held at its Head-
quarters on the 17th of May, 1873, an amended Code of
By-Laws was submitted and adopted, requiring that
henceforth the ﬁscal year of the Society shall commence
on the lst of January of each year instead of May.
By another amendment, the election of ofﬁcers is to
take place every three years instead of annually. By
this arrangement, it will be seen that the first term is
necessarily shortened four months; but, it being my
intention to present to the members an Annual Report,
notwithstanding these modiﬁcations the following brief
synopsis of the proceedings of the Society for the last
eight months is submitted :

 




    

 

 

 

 

 

10

PROSECUTIONS.

FROM the 1st of May to the 31st of December, 1873,
the Society prosecuted three hundred and twenty cases,
as detailed in the tabular statement on page 11. From
reports received from the various Branches and Agents
of the Society, it is very gratifying to ﬁnd that the resi—
dents of the localities are becoming more interested in
the work, and that in places where shocking cases of
inhumanity to dumb animals were of frequent occur—
rence, the interference of the agents is seldom required.
In many small towns where agents have only been
appointed a few months, cruelty is gradually becoming
an evil of the past, and horses, calves, and other animals
are treated, as a rule, with much more humanity.

During the same period, ﬁve hundred horses and other
animals were humanely destroyed by the ofﬁcers of the
Society. The Ambulances have been called out on one
hundred and thirty-eight occasions to remove sick and
disabled horses from the streets to their stables or to
the veterinary surgeons. Hundreds of inﬁrm and worn-
out animals have also been condemned by the veterina—
ry surgeons attached to the Society in this city and
Brooklyn, and destroyed. Four hundred and ﬁfty lame
horses suffering from temporary disability have been
ordered out of harness, and sent home for rest or treat-
ment. Many complaints have been received against
owners of horses neglecting to provide them with neces-
sary food and. shelter. In some cases, on investigation,
the owners were found in as poor condition as their
dumb servants, and in others, the poor beasts were left
to starve, while their inhuman masters were spending
their earnings in drink. Many such were arrested and
punished by ﬁne and imprisonment.

 




 

RECORD OF CASES PROSECUTED BY THE SOCIETX

 

ITS BRANCHES AND

)

 

r'

v

For cruelly beating Horses or
other Animals with whips, clubs,
or other weapons, . . . . .

1866—67i1867—68

t

1868—69

1869-70

 

 

41

50

I I A i
1870—71;18714251872435

AGENTS, IN EACH Y EAR.

H‘ ,:,)““4" _ C"“_Aq— 4‘"—

l e). i
To DEC.

'1‘“

MAY TOTA Ls.

 

 

‘26 l

2326

 

 

For carrying Animals in a cruel
or inhuman manner, . . . .

10

 

49;
I

151

 

For driving lame, sick, or dis-
abled Horses, . . - . . .

For overloading or overdriving
Horses and Mules, . . . . .

15

2155 f 1,333

 

1(35

 

 

For acts of Cruelty to Cattle,
Dogs, Cats, Poultry, etc., . .

 

For Dog or Cock Fighting, .

 

CD
02
L“
r-t

. GP.
‘d't .

(54 ‘

 

For using Bit Burrs or other
instruments of torture, . . .

For starving or abandoning
Horses or other Animals, . .

For maliciously mutilating and
wounding Animals with knives,
etc., . . . . . . . .

 

Totals, . . . .

 

 

11

125

1‘
(N

269

 

I
11;

1:3

C 2'3

561

 

(”JD
r—1
1‘

365

10 120

 

 

 

ll

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

£13. The American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, in Account with Henry Clews, Treasurer. (151’.

1 8 ’7 3.
Dec. 31. T0 Cash paid 02(1‘f7’0m let May 2‘0 313$ December, 1873,

indusit‘e, 00'2”
Salaries ot Superintendent and Agents. . .. ........ ..
Rent of Ofﬁce, 696 Broadway, to 1st May, 1873. . . . . ..
Rewards ................
Printing Annual Reports
StationeryandBooks.
Shields for Special Agents and Societies. . .. . . ..
Purchase of new ambulance, and lepairs to old
Horse hiteforambnlances
Hy drants, and repairing same 1 . . .
'l‘elegra111's,express cha1ges,and sundries.
Newspapers and pamphlets .. . . . .. . . . . . ..
Postage and revenue stamps. . . . .. . ..
Furniture 1111 Headquarters, fuel and gas.
Renovatintrpicture
Traveling expe11ses....... ..... .
“Animal Kingdom,” donation to...
Adve1t1sen1cnts .
Repairs to Real Estate property. ..
Insurances—Premiums on. . . . . . . ..
TaxesonRealEstate....
Allowance to Walter Jones ,by order 01 Sunogate. ..

do W. 1-1. Bell. do ..

Interest on Bond of \Iortoaue, paid Mrs. L. A. Van

Buren.... ..........
Plesentation Vase for E. '1‘. Ge1ry ..
Compensation for injury to horse. . . .. . .. . . . . . . . . . . ..
Cleanintroﬂices ..... . ..
Headquai tors—Expenses of alterations including

builder, painter, plumber, iron w 01k, aichitects,
fees, etc“

Law expenses

........ ...... ...-......n -

,etc

...-0.0.7
...-......
...........
...........
a....o..-.

...-......-

...........
.... ...-...-a-.
- nu......-
...-....-

ou--.-'OIO..-. .. ....-

...-o.- coo-.....co-o-I unu-o.--..co-

Total expenditure
Balances 2 111 petty cash drawer. . . . . . . . . . ..

I.

 

  

$2,953 75
200 00
132 00
409 04

 

57 05
201 05
161 35
1,483 50
1,500 00
1,720 83

700 00

11035 35
10 50

$19,246 12

67 16
$19,813 28 i

1873.
May 1.

By Balance—Union Trust Company. . . . . ”$5,793 97
In petty cash drawer....................... 39 28
By Balance U. T. (30., Estate account...............
Finesreceived...
Interest on bank deposits...........................
Interest on bond 0! mortgage on 18 Walkc r St1eet..
Peisonal estate of Louis Bonard.
Donations
Yearlymembership............ ..
Rents of Real Estate per Agent, less repairs,

ssions, etc.

00111-

.oicoluonononvoococoInto-......-

/

1155.833 25
8,399 16
236 55
7611 22
1,458 83
12,767 48
331 00
653 00

5,290 an

LC

 




In Unoion Tr 1191: Company. ........ $1 936 68
do Estate

of L. Bonard Executor $2100.}13 940 45

In Chemical Bank” 545 44

Jan. 1,1874.

1‘
to
c)
0)
~31
to
H

l

 

 

 

 

We have examined the above account and found it correct.
NEW YORK, April 16, 1874.

TR? ASURE R’S

The Treasurer reports the income of the Society from all sources,
expenditure during the same period $19,246.12,

 

from the 1st May to the 3lst December, 1875, as 3535,

leaving a balance of $16,422.57 in the ban '5, and $67.11} in Potty Cash drawer.

or M)-

Sin—,1 .)\.')

 

 

 

’I‘IIO. C.
A DAM \V.

DOREML’S. ?
Auditing Cmmnilhé.
SPIES. t
ll] POP I‘.
5...

.. .0
730.c5, and the V




 

 

 

 

    

22

of organizing a Society. In accordance with this no-
tice, a meeting was held in the Board of Trade rooms,
City Hall; and his Excellency, Gov. Noyes, was called
to the chair. The governor, in replying to this unani-
mous request, gave utterance to some most manly and
610(1’7611t sentiments; and the business was begun by
inviting Mr. Bergh to give a narrative of the rise and
progress of our humane work, and to offer such sug-
gestions for the guidance of those present in the pur-
pose for which they were assembled. This Mr. Bergh
did, in a speech of about half an hour’s duration, and a
committee was appointed to nominate ofﬁcers of the
new Society ; - and with a vote of thanks to our President
for his visit to Columbus, the meeting adjourned to meet
again on the following Friday.

The importance of having a Society in this city, the
seat of government of Ohio, always near its Legislature,
requires no demonstration. Well satisﬁed with his work
in Columbus, Mr. Bergh, before leaving town, accepted
an invitation of the Adjutant—General to drive, and was
shown some of the public institutions, which he found
very interesting.

‘Vith this city ended Mr. Bergh’s lectures. That this
tour has been of vast beneﬁt to the Cause we represent
no one can doubt, with the evidence of the enthusiastic
receptions, tendered him everywhere as a missionary of
Humanity to the speechless brute; the organization of
similar Societies to our own, Where none existed before ;
and the vast multitudes which attended to listen to him.
One word, the President would utter, expressive of his
thanks to Gov. Noyes, Col. Skarrett, the Adjutant—Gren—
eral, and other citizens of the handsome capital of this
great State, for their ofﬁcial courtesy and aid in the fur-
therance of the object of his visit. To the Reverend

 




