 

 

THE AMERICAN SOCIETY

FOR THE

PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS

INCORPORATED BY THE STATE OF NEW YORK
APRIL 10, I866

_____.+.___

THIRTY-THIRD ANNUAL REPORT

FOR THE YEAR ENDING DECEMBER 31, 1898

 

JOHN P. HAINES, PRESIDENT

 

HEADQUARTERS OF THE SOCIETY:

MADISON AVENUE AND 26TH STREET

NEW YORK

- 1899

 




 

 

 

 

THE WINTHROP PRESS

NEW YORK

 

 




 

 

OFFICERS AND MANAGERS
OF I
THE AMERICAN SOCIETY FOR THE

PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO
ANIMALS.

1899

President.
JOHN P. HAINES.

Vice-Presidents.

BENJAMIN D. HICKS, ALFRED WAGSTAEF,
ELBRIDGE T. GERRY, _ MORRIS K. JESUP,
REV. MORGAN DIX, S.T.D. JOHN CLAFLIN,
FREDERIC GALLATIN, PARKE GODWIN,
W. C. SCHERMERHORN, . CHARLES LANIER.

Exeéutive Committee.

. BENJAMIN D. HICKS, FREDERICK W. VANDERBILT,
JOSEPH H. CHOATE, WILLIAM FAHNESTOCK,
HORACE RUSSELL, , REV. DAVID H. GREER, D.D.,
EDWARD A. HAMMOND, JOEL B. ERHARDT,

GEORGE G. DEWITT, . WILLIAM H. PARSONS,
JAMES GRANT WILSON, JOHN MASON KNOX,
FREDERIC R. COUDERT, JOHN J. SINCLAIR,‘
JOHN MCLEAN NASH.
Secretary. Treasurer.
GEORGE G. DEWITT. CHARLES LANIER.
Counsel. Assistant Treasurer.
HORACE RUSSELL. JOSEPH W. EDWARDS.
Superintendent.

CHARLES H. HANKINSON.

Veterinary Surgeon.
SAMUEL K. JOHNSON.

 

BROOKLYN OFFICE,‘
I3 Willoughby Street.

F. O. CLARK, Inspector.

 




 

 

 

 

ADDRESS OF THE PRESIDENT. ‘

Ladies and Gentlemen:
I beg to submit to you the following condensed statement of
the local work of the Society during the past year:

STATISTICS.
Arrests and Prosecutions ....................... . . 513
Animals Suspended from Labor ................... 3,781
Horses, mules, and other large animals, disabled past —
recovery, humanely destroyed ................ 3,200
Small animals, homeless or disabled past recovery, hu—
manely destroyed . . . . . . .................... 91,535
Disabled horses and other large animals removed from.
i streets in ambulances ....................... 607
Cases Investigated .............................. 50,271

For purposes of comparison I beg next to lay before you a
summary of the local work of the Society for the past twelve
years:

SUMMARY FOR THE PAST TWELVE YEARS.

 

1887 1888 1889 1890 1891 1892 1893 1894 1895 1896 1897 1898

 

Arrests and Prosecutions 797 991 949 986 1,071 1,080 980 1,010 952 709' 618 513
Disabled animals sus-
pended from labor ..... 3,456 1,749 2,357 4,180 5,725 4,868 3,779 3,596 3,403 3,207 3,491 3.731
Horses, mules, and other
large animals, disabled
past recovery, hu-
manely destroyed ..... 2,546 2,455 2,812 2,284 2,620 3,365 3,384 2,927 2,987 3,254 3.067 3,200
Smallanimals,home1essor
disabled past recovery,
humanely destroyed. . . 1,202 1,281 705 1,347 2,212 3,060 4,794 24,275 46,898 73,197 88,028 91.535
Disabled horses, and
other large animals re-
moved from streets in
ambulances. .7 .......... 522 495 407 520 578 618 607 513 576 583 553 607
Cases Investigated ...... 3,773 3,052 2,793 3,609 6,8QI 7,30I 7,599 13,603 21,690 37,635 49,215 50,271

/

 

I

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

6

It is interesting to observe the variations which appear in
the record of the twelve years represented in the foregoing
table. I may properly call your attention to each of the items.

I. During the ﬁrst period of four years, 1887 to 1890, inclu-
sive, there was a steady increase in the number of arrests and
prosecutions; in the second period of four years, from 1891 to
1894, inclusive, the number of arrests and prosecutions was at
the highest level; in the third period, from 1895 to 1898, inclu-
sive, there has been a steady decrease from 952 to 513. It might
naturally be inferred that the Society has been less active in
this department during the past four years than inthe previous
eight years. That inference, however, would be erroneous.
Twelve years ago our work was still a struggle with ignorance
and often with deﬁant opposition which could only be over-
come by a vigorous enforcement of the law, and as there are
fashions in cruelty as in everything else, we were then engaged
in a battle with cock-ﬁghters and dog—ﬁghters who used every
means to conceal their brutal sport. In the four years from
1891 to 1894, that battle was at its height, and it notunfre-~
quently happened that several persons were arrested at one and
the same time for participation in those sports. This fact ac-
counts for the large number of arrests and prosecutions ocCur—
ring in the second period of four years. In 1895, these brutal
exhibitions began to be abandoned, and in the third period, from
1895 to 1898, they have been virtually abolished. This cause
alone accounts in large part for the steadily decreasing number
of arrests and prosecutions in the third period of four years.
There are other causes, however, to which I may refer with
satisfaction.

The ﬁrst is the humane severity of the judges of the courts in
the execution of the law. In my report for 1896 I referred to
this subject in terms which I may properly repeat: “ In former
years it was customary to impose a trivial ﬁne. During the
past year the magistrates have generally preferred to impose
a heavy ﬁne, with the alternative of a proportionate term of
imprisonment, and this change of policy has been vindicated by

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

7

the result. A man, for instance, who was ﬁned ﬁve dollars for
driving a horse when unﬁt for work, would pay the ﬁne and
then very likely take the risk of another ﬁne of equal amount,
in the hope of escaping arrest while earning enough money
before arrest to recoup his loss and pay a second ﬁne of the
same amount. In many instances the lightness of the penalty
actually seemed an incentive to a repetition of the offense; but
when magistrates began to impose a ﬁne of twenty—ﬁve dollars
for the ﬁrst offense, this apparent severity operated as an in-
stant and effectual check to misdemeanors of that class. It has
proved in the end to be as humane to the offenders as it has been
effectual in the protection of animals. Second and third arrests
of the same persons for the same- offense have become compara-
tively rare, and the wisdom of the courts has been proved by
a notable reduction in the whole number of arrests which the
Society is under the necessity of making.”

Another gratifying cause of the diminution in the number of
arrests and prosecutions is the co—operation of private citizens
with the work of the Society, which has begun to realize our
hopes and practically to vindicate the educational policy of the
Society. In former years our citizens in general took little prac-
tical interest in the protection of animals. They assumed that
our Society alone was charged with that business and expected
-oulr handful of ofﬁcers to be ubiquitous. Accordingly, when a
case of cruelty occurred, they looked helplessly about to see
whether an agent of the Society would stop it. They did not
seem to realize that it is the legal right and the moral duty of
every citizen to intervene to forbid the public commission of
a misdemeanor, nor did they usually take the trouble-to report
the case at the headquarters of the Society. The easy thing
to do was to address a letter to one of the daily papers, telling
how the Society had failed in the performance of its duty, with—
out reﬂecting that they might themselves assist the Society by
reporting the case to its ofﬁcers. For the past few years there _
has been a gratifying change. Complaints of negligence on
the part of the Society have been far less numerous; alleged

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

8

offenses have been much more frequently reported; and within
the pastyear the citizens have often effectually intervened to
forbid or prevent ﬂagrant acts of cruelty. The consequence is
that brutal and inhuman drivers have been inspired with a
whdlesome dread of the law, and while there is still, no doubt, a
large amount of thoughtless and brutal cruelty, the offenders
are beComing much more careful to avoid exhibitions of bru~
tality in the public streets.

Another cause which has contributed enormously to the dimi-
nution of cruelty is the inﬂuence of the press. The time has
gone by when American journalists made sport of our work, or,
7 at best, regarded it with indifference. The press "is now our
'mOSt efﬁcient ally. Of course the members of the press are
not infallible. Even. the youngest ’of reporters can not know
‘ everything, and the best of city editors may occasionally over-
, look something. No public institution like ours can ever hOpe
to escape unmerited censure; but it is our duty gratefully to
acknoWledge that the sympathetic support of the public press of
the city of New York is to-day the moust' powerful inﬂuence On
which we have to depend in Our crusade against cruelty to ani-
mals. ‘ In my report for 1893 I said that “ The work of Our
Society must be more and more of an educative character, and
that our chief endeavor must henceforth be to disseminate sen-
timents of humanity among all classes of the community, so as
_ not only to prevent the commission of speciﬁc acts of cruelty
but to make cruelty itself odious.” 'Every year’s eXperience
has conﬁrmed me in that Conviction; and I can not leave this
~ subject without repeating my profound and grateful sense of
the enormous inﬂuenCe of the press in furthering our campaign
of education. ' '

2. A glance at the‘table will show that the number of disabled
animals "suspended from labor has ﬂuctuated from 1,749 (in
1888) to 5,725 (in 1891). It would be diﬂicult at this date to
account for such extreme variations, but I must express my re-
gret to discover that, whereas the number diminished almost
uniformly from 1891 ’to'1897, there has been an actual increase

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

IO

sure that if I were to attempt a description of one-twentieth of
them, I should soon exhaust your patience. Yet this work has
to be done at the rate of nearly one thousand-per week on every
day of the year, Sundays included.

Such as it is, I do not believe that the volume of work actu—
ally performed in the year 1898 could possibly have been done
without the facilities which we now possess in the new building
which has been expressly constructed and equipped for the
efﬁcient performance of the work of the Society. I shall not
attempt in this report to describe either the building or its ar-
rangements. Both are open to your inspection. If they are
examined, as I think they deserve to be, I feel conﬁdent that
they will meet your approval; and, looking to the future, I
think you will be gratiﬁed to ﬁnd that provision has been made
for the extension of our work with no diminution of its efﬁ-
ciency in years to come. At the same time, I must frankly con-
fess to an increasing admiration of the faith of our executive
committee in undertaking so great a responsibility at a time
which has proved to be generally unpro-pitious to enterprises of
charity and benevolence. It is well known that during the past
few years many institutions of the highest and best—deserved
reputation have had to encounter unusual difﬁculties from the
shrinkage of contributions to their support. It might be con-
sidered invidious to refer to particular cases. I can, therefore,
only mention the fact, of which I doubt not that many of you
have personal knowledge. I may say, however, that this condi-
tion has prevailed in other countries as well as in our own; and
it is not unnatural, perhaps it is even reasonable, that in the
general shrinkage of contributions to humane objects, societies
for the protection of animals should be the ﬁrst to suffer. In
England, for example, we regret to observe that that great and
most meritorious organization, the Royal Society for the Pre-
vention of ‘Cruelty to Animals, has had to struggle against a
heavy diminution. of income. Our own Society has not been
exempt from that difﬁculty, and I entertain no sanguine expec-
tation of a rapid increase of revenue in the immediate future.

 




 

II

Consequently, we have been more or less crippled during the
past year from a lack of means with which to extend the use—
fulness of the Society, and until a more propitious time shall
come, I am reluctantly constrained to admit that our work must
be carried on with great prudence and with scrupulous econ—
omy. I allow myself to cherish no illusions on that point; and
yet, the experience of the past year has satisfactorily demon—
strated that the erection of our new headquarters was, in fact,
a measure of economy, since our present facilities enable us to
do more work, and to do it more efﬁciently and with less labor,
with the same amount of expenditure as formerly.

Looking at the home work of the Society as a whole, and
making due allowance for all drawbacks, I am encouraged to
believe that the past year has been a year of satisfactory prog-
ress. Our relations with other societies at home and abroad
remain as heretofore. Our assistance continues to be sought by
feebler organizations in all parts of the country. With foreign
societies our correspondence is constant and cordial; and now
that the possessions of the United States have been suddenly
and unexpectedly extended to the East and to the West, we
must undoubtedly expect to make our inﬂuence felt in islands
which have heretofore been of a different civilization. In Cub-a,
Porto Rico, and the Philippines, no such work as ours has ever
yet been established. The duty of kindness to animals has been
hardly thought of. The brutal sports of cock—ﬁghting and bull-
ﬁghting have been, and still are, popular amusements. It will
be our duty doubtless to endeavor to promote a better state of
things wherever the authority of the nation is established, but in
that work prudence and energy must go hand in hand. The
peoples of those islands Will be predisposed to resent what may
seem to them to be an interference with their traditional cus-
toms, and they will be jealous of everything that implies an
assumption of moral superiority on our part. I fully realize
the difﬁculty that lies before us, and I am disposed to think that
the direct intervention of Americans in this matter may be gen—
erally inexpedient. It may be hoped that in every part of the

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

IZ

Islands lately under Spanish rule, there are some persons who
are in sympathy with our cause, who will be able, as well as will-
ing, to promote it among their own people, and who will have
better prospects of success than any foreigner could hope to
have. I have thus indicated one of the difﬁculties of this sub-
ject and one method of meeting it, but there may be other difﬁ—
culties, and there may be other methods of meeting them. At
present, I can only say that this whole subject is receiving the
grave consideration that its importance deserves, and that some
practical steps are now being taken, the effect of which might be
marred by premature discussion. The best that I can now say
is that we may hope twelve months hence to have something
more, and more encouraging, to tell of the prospects of animal
protection in the new possessions oIr dependencies of the United
States. '

In conclusion, I have only to say that we are entering upon
the New Year with no overwhelming cause of discouragement,
with much to be thankful for 1n the past, and with many causes
of reasonable hope for the future.

JOHN P. HAINES,
President.
December 31, 1898. ‘

 

 

 




 

 

 

REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE
COMMITTEE.

The completeness of the reports of the President, Treasurer,
and Superintendent leaves little additional to be said in regard
to the work of the Society during the year 1898.

A perusal of these reports will show that the past year has
been the most active in the history of the Society; and while
in the performance of its labors the Society’s resources have
been severely taxed, no opportunities have been neglected to
prosecute the work of animal protection to the fullest extent.

The work in the Shelter. department continues to increase
steadily, and during the year it was found necessary to estab-
lish a third Shelter for Animals, located on Wave street, Staple-
ton, Borough of Richmond.

Changes in the Executive Committee were occasioned by the
retirement of Mr. Elbridge T. Gerry and Mr. George G. Haven,
and the election of Mr. John Mason Knox, Mr. John J. Sinclair,
and Mr. John McLean Nash, to ﬁll existing vacancies.

In the obituary record will be found the names of nineteen
members whose death the Society has been called on to mourn
during the past year.

Thirty additional Special Agents were appointed during the
year, the effect of which has been most beneﬁcial in preventing
cruelty in places heretofore not ofﬁcially represented.

One hundred and six new names have been added to the roll
of members, and the interest displayed in the work of the So-
ciety, as evinced by this large acquisition to its active workers,
as well as the general approval with which its efforts have met
from the public and the press, have been very gratifying.

GEORGE G. DEWITT,
Secretary.

 




 

 

REPORT OF THE TREASURER.

NEW YORK, fanaary I, 1899.

To T lze Ameriean Soeiezfy for Me Prevention of Cruelty to
A nimais .- ‘

The Treasurer begs leave to submit the following report for
the year ending December 31, 1898, showing a Cash Balance
on hand of $14,235.96.

Respectfully,
CHARLES LANIER,

Treasurer.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

16

CHARLES LANIER, Treasurer, £72 account wz'z‘ﬁ THE AMERICAN
CURRENT INCOME AND EXPENDITURES FOR

 

 

DR.
To Cash balance, Dec. 31, 1897 ...... . . . $6,979 56
“ Bequests: James Simons .......... 500 00
Chas. B. Beck .......... 9 2,500 00
Caroline B. Morgan ..... . . 5,019 29
Mary G. Johnes ......... 500 00
J. E. Lockwood ......... 500 00
Ruth Bouton. . . . . ...... 500 00
Frederick W. Waring ....... 14,174 93
“ Members’ ’Dues and General Donations . . . . ”15,628 IO
“Fines.. . . .... ........... 3,35970
“ Rentals, Dividends, Interest, Licenses, etc. . $79,171 97

$128,833 55

 

To balance brought down, Dec. 31, I898 . . . ....... $14,235 96

 

 

We, the undersigned, have examined the foregoing accounts
of Cruelty to Animals, and have veriﬁed the same by the

  
 
 

 
  

 

 

 




 

 

I7

SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY ’1‘0 ANIMALS.

THE YEAR ENDING DECEMBER 31, 1898.

 

 

CR.

By Disbursements from January I, 1898, to date: General
Maintenance, including Light, Fuel, Postage, Sal-

aries, etc. . . . . ........ $42,672 63
“ Equipment and Maintenance of New York, Brooklyn,
and Richmond Shelters. . . . ..... . . 37,555 18

Ambulance House, New York: Maintenance, including
Feed, Food, and Medicine for Homeless and Aban-
doned Animals . . . . . . . ...... 893 31
Ambulance House, Brooklyn: Maintenance, including ’ -
Feed, Food, and Medicine for Homeless and Aban-

doned Animals. . . . . . . . . . ...... 917 30
“ Repairs to Real Estate, Rent, lnterest, Taxes, and In-

surance . '. . . . ...... . 14,916 83
“ Stationery, Printing, Annual Report, etc ....... . 1,812 03
“ Humane Literature. . . . . . . . . . ..... . . . ‘4.571 06
“ Library Account . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 289 45
“ Fountain Account . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ' 486 54
“ Brooklyn Ofﬁce: Maintenance . . .i . . . . . . . . . 8,088 23
“ Legal Expenses. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,695 03
“ Ullmann Estate: Mrs. Thayer . . . . . . ...... 700 00

“ Cash balance, Dec. 31, 1898:
Cash on deposit in Union Trust Co. and
checks on hand . . . . . . . . . . . .$14,195 64 _
Cash in drawer. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4o 32 $14,235 96

 

 

 

$128,833 55

 

 

of the Treasurer of The American Society for the Prevention
Society’s books and vouchers.

JOEL B. ERHARDT,

BEN]. D. HICKS, iAua’ztmg Commzz‘lee.

 




 

 

I9

resort to judicial proceedings; and I venture to say that the
method adopted by the Society in the latter cases, obtained
better moral results. I do not mean to be understood, how-
ever, that there is no longer need for physical force in the
application of preventing cruelty to animals. There are per—
sons in every community who oppose and defy laws and ordi-
nances enacted for the general welfare, and who can not be
restrained by moral suasion; hence the need for stronger and
more effective measures.

DOG AND COCK FIGHTS

It is gratifying to be able to report that, owing to the vigil-
ance of the Society, several contemplated dog and cock ﬁghts
were prevented.

The arrest, conviction, and punishment during the past year
of two notorious promoters of the so-called sports named
above has had no doubt a deterrent inﬂuence on others in—
clined to indulge in such brutal pastimes.

One hundred and ten persons were captured by the police
of the Borough of Queens in a raid made on a saloon wherein
a crowd had gathered to witness a dog ﬁght. The police,
however, did not get there in time to see the ﬁght actually
in progress, yet they found every indication that it had taken
place. The proprietor of the saloon was ﬁned $100 by the
Court of Special Sessions of the Second Division, the circum—
stantial evidence being conclusive that the premises had been
used for dog ﬁghting and kindred violations of the law.

The presiding judge, after passing sentence, said, “ It is the
unanimous sentiment of this Court that dog ﬁghts and other
animal contests are brutal and demoralizing and will not be
tolerated within its jurisdiction; and in future all persons con-
victed in this Borough of aiding, abetting, or witnessing, 'or
in any way furthering such violation of the law, may expect
the full penalty prescribed by the statutes of the State, for it
will surely be imposed.”

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

20

The maximum penalty is a ﬁne of one thousand dollars, or
one year imprisonment in the penitentiary, or both ﬁne and
imprisonment, and affects witnesses as well as principals.

LIVE STOCK DEPOTS

The daily presence of one of the agents of the Society at
the several depots where live stock is brought, prevents abuse
of the animals, and has resulted in stopping the cruel practice
of omitting to milk milch cows for many hours, thus depriving
their progeny of their natural food, solely for the purpose
of enhancing the selling value of the mother. All animals,
. after being unloaded, are provided with food and water, and
are made as comfortable as possible pending their removal to
other quarters. ,

It was necessary to prosecute several cons'ignees and
handlers of live poultry in order to convince them that such
animals had rights which the laws of the State recognized.

AMBULANCE AND DERRICK SERVICE

These departments of the Society’s work are of incalculable
beneﬁt to animals accidentally injured, or suddenly taken sick,
or otherwise disabled while at work in the streets.

The ambulances, of which there are three, 'two in Manhattan
andone in Brooklyn, are equipped with all modern conven-
iences and appliances .for the transportation of large or small
animals, and are ready for service at all times.

The derrick has been the means of saving several horses
fro-m drowning, and others from prolonged suffering in exca-
vations into which they had accidentally fallen.

SPECIAL AGENTS

Reports from special agents, other than the uniformed force
of the Society, are gratifying, in that they state the work of
preventing abuse of animals is arousing a deep interest in the

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

SOCIETY IN

A SMALL ROOM ON FIFTH STREET

TWO OF SIXTEEN STARVING DOGS FOUND BY AGENTS OF THE

 

See page 58

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

A FIFTH AVENUE STAGE HORSE
Arrest No. 23,302

 




 

 

 

23

minds of people hitherto indifferent to the subject—matter of
animal protection; and opposition, which formerly met the
agents when interfering in behalf of animals neglected or ill
treated, is now of rare occurrence. “ Only a few horses to
blanket ” is the report of one agent. “ My labors for the past
year have been in the nature of advice, which has been ac-
cepted and appreciated,” writes another. “ My authority is
recognized and respected.” “ The people are in sympathy with
me and afford me every assistance when required.” “ No ani-
mals ill treated in my town; the good people will not toler-
ate it.”

Such is the tenor of the reports received from the Society’s
representatives resident throughout the State; yet it is hardly
to be expected that such good results attend the appointment
Of special agents for isolated localities, and there is no doubt that
many acts of cruelty are done through ignorance on the part
of the offender, as will be instanced by the following agent’s
report: “ I found a horse tied to the corner of a house about
ten miles from the village. The poor creature had been out
all night during a heavy snow storm and was almost frozen
to death. It was about thirty years old, yet had been com—
pelled to work daily by its owner, a colored man, who was
very poor and apparently as wretched as his horse. The fur-
ther suffering of the latter was mercifully ended at the request
of the owner, who declared he ‘ did not intend to be cruel to
the horse, but he was ignorant of what was required to be
done to have the animal disposed of before.’ ” '

Another agent reports a case of shocking cruelty to a cow.
The animal belonged to a farmer living some distance from
the town. The cow fell and broke one of her hind legs near
the hip. Instead of sending for a veterinary surgeon, the
farmer-undertook to “ ﬁx up the leg ” himself. To that end
he procured some tin splints and rope, with which he patched
up the fractured limb. A week afterward the leg seemed as
if about to drop off, when, it is alleged, the farmer amputated
it with a small knife, and applied a mixture of coal tar and

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

.24

grease to the exposed parts, then turned the animal out to
pasture with the intention, so it is said, of “fattening her for
market in the fall of the year.” When the Society’s agent
reached the farm he found the cow in the condition described
above, and immediately put an end to the animal’s sufferings.
It is to be regretted that the legal evidence required in such
cases could not be obtained to warrant the prosecution of the
human brute who inﬂicted such torture upon a helpless crea-
ture. The promptness with which the Society’s agent acted
in the case was very gratifying to the citizens of the town.

Many persons are still under the belief that they can do what
they please with their own animals, but such impression is
gradually being dispelled owing to the advice promulgated
by the Society from time to time. through its agents; and the
severe punishment imposed upon conviction by the criminal
courts of the State.

INCIDENTAL

Agents of the Society have attended theaters, stables, mar-
kets, race tracks, and places where animals are for sale, em—
ployed, or use-d, as well as nightly receptions and other social
functions, especially in cold or stormy weather, in order to-
compel the blanketing of horses; and in every instance where
it was necessary to interfere, the authority of the agent was
recognized and his advice heeded.

The following will give some idea of the different phases of
cruelty to animals, which have been investigated during the
past year:

Compelling a horse to remain all night in an open lot. It
rained and snowed, and when the agent arrived he found the
horse almost frozen to death; beating a horse in a cruel man—
ner, because the animal stumbled and fell; maltreating a neigh-
bor’s dog to spite the owner; compelling a horse having a
broken leg to walk nearly ten miles; beating a horse on the
head with an iron trace chain; beating a dog with an iron
shovel, then burying the dog in the ground while still alive;

 

 




 

 

25

poisoning chickens because they went on a neighbor’s lawn;
putting a live kitten into the ﬁre of a cooking range. All of
the above cases were investigated and the perpetrators brought
to justice.

Innumerable instances of the rescue of animals from peril-
ous places could be mentioned if space and time permitted,
but the following Will sufﬁce:

At One Hundred and Forty-fourth street, close by the Mott
Haven Canal, were stabled two horses. Sometime during
the night of May 21 one of the horses broke out of the stable,
it is supposed to graze on the salt grass which grows near the
edge of the canal. The horse was heard ﬂoundering in the
. water about two o’clock am. by a police ofﬁcer, who notiﬁed
the Society’s Headquarters by telephone. An agent of the
Society was immediately dispatched to the scene. The horse
was found fast imbedded in the mud on the west bank of the
canal, the sides of which are steep and about ﬁve feet high.
The poor creature was in great distress, and it was evident no
rescue could be accomplished from that point of the canal.
Summoning assistance, which was most willingly furnished
by a number of early morning bicyclers, the agent succeeded
in pushing the horse out of the mud bank into deep water
and towing it'to the dock at One Hundred and Forty-third
street. Here a sling was secured around its body, and, by
means of a block and fall rigged to a post on the inner edge
of the dock, the half—drowned animal was safely hoisted to
dry land. The poor beast was so long in the mud and water
that partial paralysis had set in, rendering the hind parts prac-
tically powerless. Everything known to veterinary science
was tried, but in vain. “ The case is hopeless,” said the veteri-
nary surgeon, and at the request of the owner, the sufferings
of the animal were humanely ended.

For several days the mewing of a cat was heard by the
tenants of two large tenement houses on West Twenty-eighth
street. The sound seemed to come from between the ﬂoors
of the building; again, seemingly, from between the walls, at

 




 

 

ANTE-ROOM TO PRESIDENT’S OFFICE, NEW HEADQUARTERS
Showing Letter and Document Files.

I
ﬂ
ﬂ
ﬂ,
ﬂ
.
‘
ﬂ
I
.
.
I
U
Q
.
I
§

 

 




‘ 9 34.;J==-'"“ f: ":21; ‘ ”A
.ég‘ a,

 

 

 

INDEX ROOM IN NEW HEADQUARTERS

This Index contains over half a million cards, referringto arrests, prosecutions, complaints. and different phases of cruelty. It contains the names
of all offenders, defendants, and complainants, and permits of immediate reference to any particular case and
the intelligent prosecution of similar cases and old offenders.

 

 

 




 

 

 

29

Society and its representatives by the Judges of the Courts of
Special and General Sessions, as well as by the representatives

of all other departments of the municipal government of the
Greater City.

Respectfully submitted,
CHARLES H. HANKINSON,

Superintendent.

 




 

Jan. 4.

 

 

 

 

Jan. 5.

 

Jan. 5.

 

 

 

THE FOLLOWING ARE SOME OF THE MORE 1M?
PORTANT CASES PROSECUTED DURING THE
YEAR 1898:

Pietro Quagliariello was sentenced to pay a ﬁne ofﬁfty
dollars or to be imprisoned for ten days, by the Court of Spe-
cial Sessions, Justice Hinsdale presiding. The offense for
which the defendant was punished was refusing to care for
a sick horse which he had hired out, and which had fallen
down from exhaustion and weakness. The defendant was
notiﬁed by the Society’s veterinary surgeon asto the condi-
tion of the horse and was advised to have the animal put
out of further suffering, or to do something for its relief.
This he refused to do. The Society’s ambulance was called
and the animal taken to the veterinary hospital, where it
died shortly afterward. Quagliariello was more exercised
about the dollar and a half, which he was to receive for the
horse’s hire, than about its physical suffering.

Harry Steinmetz, of Yonkers, N. Y., was found guilty
by a jury, of permitting a horse belonging to him to be
worked while suffering from sores on the body unprotected
from the harness. The justice, when imposing sentence,
cautioned the defendant against permitting sore horses to
be worked. Steinmetz was sentenced to pay a ﬁne of ﬁve
dollars or to be conﬁned for ﬁve days in the County jail.

“ You are sentenced to pay a ﬁne of seventy—ﬁve dollars,
and in default of payment, to be imprisoned in the City
Prison for ﬁfteen days,” said presiding Judge Jacobs, of the
Court of Special Sessions, to George Whittemore, who was
charged with having compelled a horse, suffering from
horrible sores on the body unprotected from the harness,
to haul a loaded cart. The imposition of such a heavy sen—
tencein the case was owing to the fact of Whittemore refus-
ing to give any information as to who was responsible for
putting the horse to work, although he stated in his defense,

 




 

 

 

 

 

PRINTING PLANT IN NEW HEADQUARTERS

By doing its own printing the Society is enabled to procure the enormous amount of printed matter required in the conduct of its work, at a
reduced cost, and also to distribute humane literature more widely than it would otherwise be able to do.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

PRESS USED FOR PRINTING HUMANE LITERATURE

 




 

Jan. 6.

Jan. IO.

Jan: II.

> Jan. II.

Jan. I4.

33

“ I was told to take the horse out.” It appeared, however,
that the owner of the animal offered to pay whatever ﬁne was
imposed. Judge Jacobs stated that whenever the person re-
sponsible for sending disabled horses to work was brought
before the Court upon a charge of cruelty to animals, a
severe punishment would be imposed.

William Sprisser was ﬁned twenty—ﬁve dollars by the
Court of Special Sessions for causing and permitting a horse
belonging to him to be tortured by one Toney Canero. The
latter, when arrested, stated to the ofﬁcer that he was com--
pelled to drive the horse or “ lose his job.” The. animal was
lame and decrepit.

Joseph Kapp was charged before Justice Kellogg, of
Yonkers, with cruelly kicking and otherwise abusing a
horse. Kapp ﬁrst jerked the lines so hard as to throw the
horse down, and then kicked the animal most brutally. The
justice imposed a ﬁne of ﬁve dollars, with the alternative of
imprisonment for ﬁve days.

Louis Ettinghoff, of Maspeth, L. I., was ﬁned ﬁfty dol-
lars by Justice Brush for keeping milch cows in a crowded
and unhealthful barn. The ﬁlth, the fetid atmosphere of the
place were indescribable, yet the animals were compelled to
remain in the building until past use for milking purposes.
The ofﬁcers of the'Society turned the cows out into a ﬁeld
adjacent to the barn.

Lame, weak, and feeble was the condition of a horse
which Louis Buttner was urging along the Bowery. The
decrepit animal was attached to a heavily loaded wagon.
Buttner objected to the Society‘s'ofﬁcer unharnessing the
horse, and taking it to a stable for surgical treatment. He
declared that there was nothing the matter, although the
animal could not put its sore foot to the ground without suf—
fering great pain. The Society’s ambulance was summoned,
and the horse was sent to a veterinary hospital. Buttner was
subsequently ﬁned ﬁfteen dollars by the Court of Special
Sessions.

Charles Sahr, of Maspeth, L. I., was ﬁned ten dollars
for failing to provide proper shelter and sustenance for sev-
eral horses. The animals were past use and were to be
slaughtered the next day, which reason the defendant gave
as an excuse for not providing them with food and shelter.

 




- gab.“

 

Jan. 24.

Jan. 25.

Jan. 28.

Feb. 1.

Feb. 8.

 

35

sentenced by Judge Kellogg to each pay a ﬁne of ﬁfteen
dollars or to be imprisoned for ﬁfteen days.

Abraham Rottkoff, of Maspeth, L. I., beat his horse in
a cruel manner because the animal stumbled and fell. Not
satisﬁed with lashing the prostrate horse with a whip, Rott-
koff picked up a stone, and threw it with all his force, so
that it struck the animal in the mouth, making an ugly
wound. Rottkoff was ﬁned twenty-ﬁve dollars by Justice
Schumacher.

“ You are ﬁned twenty-ﬁve dollars~on your plea of guilty
to driving a horse suffering from sores on the body, unpro-
tected from the harness,” said Justice Hinsdale, of the Court
of Special Sessions, to Frederick P. Klenke. The horse was
in a deplorable state when seen by the Society’s ofﬁcer.
Sores that measured from three by two and a half to ﬁve
inches in diameter on back, breast, and other parts of the
body, were so chafed by the heavy harness as to cause the
animal excruciating pain, yet Klenke did not think that he
should be punished for his cruelty. Justice Hinsdale Warned
the defendant that if ever he were brought before the Court
again on a similar charge he would be astonished at the
punishment he Would receive.

For neglecting for many days to provide food and water

for his two horses and a mule, Lewis Bates, of Wheeler,

N. Y., was sentenced by Justice Stickgaey to ten days’ im—
prisonment. When found by the Society’s ofﬁcer the ani—
mals were in a serious condition.

Lame, sore, feeble, and utterly unﬁt for work was the
condition of a horse which John Schlagel was urging to haul
a loaded wagon. The wretched animal responded to the
whip, but the effort evidently caused him untold agony.
Schlagel appeared utterly indifferent to the. suffering of the

'horse, and did not desist his abuse until forcibly hauled off

the vehicle by'an ofﬁcer of the Society. When sentencing
the defendant to pay a ﬁne of twenty—ﬁve dollars or to be im-
prisoned for ten days, Justice Jerome advised Schlagel not
to be brought before the Court of Special Sessions again,
for it would fare hard with him.

A horse driven by Gesa Weiss fell in the street from
weakness resulting from starvation and lack of proper care.
Although lame, sore, and feeble, the poor creature was

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Feb. 12.

Feb. 15.

Feb. 24.

Feb. 25.

 

36

beaten furiously by Weiss over the head and body with
the butt end of his whip. Weiss became enraged when the
horse fell, and he rained blow after blow upon it, until re—
monstrated with by a lady whom he also threatened with his
weapon. The man was arrested and the horse was taken to
a veterinary hospital. When sentencing Weiss to pay a
ﬁne of twenty—ﬁve dollars or to imprisonment for ten days,
Justice Holbrook took occasion to, say that if Weiss ever
“ came before the Court again charged with a similar offense,
a much more severe sentence would be imposed. To drive
a horse in the condition described by the ofﬁcer was bad
enough, but to add to its misery by beating was the height
of cruelty.”

Joseph Willey, of Leister, N. Y., pled guilty to the charge
of cruelty to animals made against him before Justice Wind-
sor, of Castile, N. Y. The offense was overdriving a horse
harnessed to a sleigh. Willey compelled the animal to haul
the vehicle over the bare ground for a long distance, the
horse at the time being thoroughly exhausted. Willey was
sentenced to pay a ﬁne of twenty dollars or to be imprisoned

for twenty days.

Christopher Johnson kicked his horse brutally several
times in the belly, simply because the animal went a step
beyond the spot at which Johnson wished him to stand.
Johnson was arraigned before the Court of Special Sessions
and wastiined ten dollars by Justices Holbrook, Hayes, and

Jacobs. _

Beneditto Santoro, of Astoria, N. Y., was arraigned be—
fore the Court of Special Sessions, charged with driving a
horse which was lame, sore, weak, and exhausted. Santoro
was not in the least moved by the sufferings of the horse,
but claimed that it was “no good anyhow.” The sentence
imposed by JusticesJacobs, Hayes, and Holbrook, was a
ﬁne of tWenty—ﬁve dollars, with the alternative of imprison-
ment for ten days.

Tony Carvido was charged before the Court of Special
Sessions, Judge Holbrook presiding, with cruelty to ani- '
mals in that he compelled a horse, “suffering from nearly
all the ailments such animals are subjected to,” said the com-
plaining witness—“ lame in both front and hind legs, sore on
back unprotected from the harness, weak, feeble, and emaci-

 




 

SHELLEIVHOCIVEIH MEN NI WOOH HOOLS

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

LIBRARY IN NEW HEADQUARTERS

works on the diseases and care of animals, newspaper clippings, leaflets, and reports bearing on the
subject of animal protection. The library is of great importance and value in connection with the educational work of the Society.

Contains law and reference books,

 




 

Feb. 26.

March I.

March 15.

March 18.

39

ated.” Carvido had nothing to say when he was sentenced
to pay a ﬁne of twenty—ﬁve dollars or to be imprisoned for
ﬁve days.

Louis Liagre was advised that the horse he was in the
habit of driving before a heavy express wagon was not in
ﬁt condition for work. The animal was old, lame, and feeble.
Heedless of the warning, Liagre kept on working the old
horse, until he was ﬁnally arrested by an ofﬁcer of the So-
ciety. Justice Jerome, of the Court of Special Sessions, sen—
tenced the offender to pay a ﬁne of ﬁfty dollars, or to be
imprisoned for twenty days. On pronouncing sentence, the
justice said: “ Liagre, you had better heed the warning of
the Court, although you chose to disregard that of the
Society. If you are brought here again charged with cruelty
to animals, you may expect a much more severe punish—
ment.”

“You are charged with cruelty to animals in that you
cruelly beat a team of horses, striking them on the head and
body twenty blows with a whip. What have you to say?"
said Justice Jacobs, of the Court of Special Sessions, to
George Murﬁt, who was on trial for the offense stated above.
The defendant said: “ The horses were balky, and I lost my
temper and beat the animals as charged, but I do not think
that I hurt them.” The excuses were not accepted by the
Court, and Murﬁt was ﬁned ﬁfteen dollars, with the alterna—
tive of ﬁve days in the City Prison.

Henry Zuckerman gave his employee the option of driv-
ing a very lame horse or of being discharged from work.
Anthony Bennel, the driver, was arrested for cruelty, but
after his explanation of the case to the city magistrate, a
warrant for the arrest of Zuckerman was issued. Zucker—
man was subsequently arraigned before Justices Jacobs,
Hayes, and Jerome, of the Court of Special Sessions, and
was sentenced to pay a ﬁne of twenty—ﬁve dollars, or to be
imprisoned for ten days. *

On the complaint of a member of the Society, John
Schenck was arrested by Policeman Lerghley for beating
a horse in a cruel manner. The horse was hitched to a
loaded wagon and was unable to draw the vehicle up the
hill on Vesey street. This appeared to anger Schenck, and
he started in to beat the animal, as stated above. The de-

 




 

 

 

March 20.

March 24.

March 25.

4o

fendant was ﬁned twenty—ﬁve dollars by Justices Hayes, Hol—
brook, and Hinsdale, with-the alternative of imprisonment
for ten days.

The police attached to the Newtown Precinct raided a
liquor saloon kept by John Bragel, corner of Warﬁeld street
and Wyckoff avenue, Ridgewood, L. I., while a dog—ﬁght
was in progress. Twenty—eight men, including the proprie-
tor and two principals, along with the dogs, were captured.
The prisoners were held for trial at the Court of Special
Sessions of the Second Division by Judge Luke J. Connor—
ton. The evidence as to the positive identity of fourteen
of the defendants was not sufﬁcient to secure a conviction,
hence their discharge. John Bragel, the proprietor of the
place, was convicted of permitting the dog—ﬁght to take
place, of which there was conclusive evidence, and he was
sentenced to pay a ﬁne of one hundred dollars or to be im-
prisoned for one hundred days. ‘

Presiding Justice Fleming, when imposing sentence on
Bragel, said, “In view of the fact that this is the ﬁrst
case of its kind brought before the Court, the punishment
will not be severe, but the Court wants it understood, that
in the future, all persons convicted of dog—ﬁghting in the
Borough of Queens, may expect the full penalty prescribed
by the statutes, viz.: one thousand dollars ﬁne or one year
in the penitentiary, or both ﬁne and imprisonment.”

Fourteen of the men arrested were ﬁned ten dollars each
by Justice Connorton on a charge of disorderly conduct.

Samuel W'ernberg compelled a weak, lame, and sore horse
to drag a loaded wagon from North Bergen, N. J., to this
city, a distance of over ten miles. He intended to return on
the same day, and, probably, would have made the attempt,
if he had not been arrested. The wretched horse was sent
by one of the Society’s ofﬁcers to a veterinary hospital.
Wernberg was very much astonished to learn that he could
not do as he pleased with his own horse, and was still more
amazed when he was ﬁned by Justices Hayes, Jacobs, and
Jerome, of the Court of Special Sessions, twenty-ﬁve dollars,
with the alternative of imprisonment for ten days.

Frank Martin, of Corona Heights, L. I., was sentenced
to pay a ﬁne of thirty dollars or to be imprisoned for thirty
days, by Judges Fleming, Fitzgerald, and Devenny, of the
Second Division of the Court of Special Sessions, for com—

 




 

 

    
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
   
    
  
 
 
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     

March 22.

April 4.

April 6.

April 7.

April 8.

41

pelling a lame, weak, and feeble horse to haul a loaded
vehicle. The animal at the time could hardly stagger along
under its heavy burden and physical weakness.

Anthony C. Ruska, of Amsterdam, N. Y., was charged
with cruelly whipping and otherwise maltreating a dog. Sev-
eral reputable witnesses testiﬁed as to the cruelty and Re-
corder Maxwell sentenced Ruska to pay a ﬁne of forty dol-
lars and costs of the trial.

Lucien Kuykendall, for compelling a horse, suffering from
sores, lameness, and other ailments too numerous to men-

tion, to haul a loaded express wagon, was ﬁned twenty-ﬁve _

dollars by the Court of Special Sessions. The horse was
humanely disposed of, the Society’s veterinary reporting it
unﬁt for any work whatsoever.

“ William Friedman, you are charged with cruelty to ani—
mals; what have you to say?" inquired presiding Justice
Hayes, of the Court of Special Sessions. “ Nothing, only I
did not think the. horse was so bad,” replied Friedman.
“ Lame, weak, feeble, and suffering in its body and limbs,
could hardly get along,” testiﬁed the Society’s ofﬁcer. “ The

sentence of the Court is you pay a ﬁne of twenty—ﬁve dol—-

lars, or be conﬁned in the City Prison for ten days; and
you had better not be brought before this Court on a simi—
lar charge again,’ said Justice Hayes.

James Adam was sentenced to be imprisoned in the City
Prison for thirty days by Judges Hayes, Holbrook, and
I-Iinsdale of the Court of Special Sessions. The offense with
which Adam was charged was beating a horse with a bale
stick because the animal could not back a loaded wagon
up an incline. Three ladies testiﬁed that the defendant struck
the horse on the head several times as “ hard as he could ”
with the bale stick. One of the witnesses begged Adam to
desist abusing the horse, but her appeal was resented with
language more forcible than polite. 'She caused his arrest
and appeared at the trial as above. .

“ I didn’t hurt the horse,” was the only defense made by
John Vakinier, when asked by presiding Judge Jerome, of
the Court of Special Sessions, what he had to say to the
charge of cruelty to animals. The offense consisted of ﬁrst
beating the animal in a cruel manner with a stick of wood,
then kicking it in a violent manner. “The horse groaned




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ARCHIVES IN NEW HEADQUARTERS

Containing all the records of the Society, systematically arranger;1 for immediate reference in connection with the general index shown
in anot er View

 




 

 

 

 

STEEL GAS TANK FOR THE HUMANE DESTRUCTION OF SMALL ANIMALS
Shelter for Animals. 102d Street and East River, New York.




 

 

April 27.

April 29.

April 30.

May 3.

May 5.

May I4.

45

“I offer this bar of iron in evidence,” said the public
prosecutor, at the same time holding up to the View of
Judges Hayes, Holbrook, and Hinsdale, of the Court of
Special Sessions, a bar of iron about ﬁve feet long by half
an inch thick. The weapon was used by Winifred Nichols
to beat his hOrse‘with, and was so testiﬁed to by several wit—
nesses at the trial of the offender. Nichols claimed that the
horse was balky, but the evidence for the people proved
the animal was willing to haul the load but lacked the physi-
cal strength. Nichols got angry and seizing the weapon
struck the horse several vicious blows on the body, cutting
the ﬂesh. It did not take the Court long to arrive at a
decision as to the guilt of the defendant and a sentence of
imprisonment in the City Prison forthirty days was im-
posed. See page 56.

Joseph Rosseau, of Jamestown, 'N. Y., was ﬁned ten dol-
lars by Police Justice Abner Hazeltine for overdriving and
cruelly beating a horse.

Lee Taylor, of Yonkers, was ﬁned ten dollars by Justice
Bennett, for driving a horse suffering from sores on the body,
unprotected from the harness.

Richard Scholerman was sentenced by the Court of Spe-
cial Sessions to pay a ﬁne of twenty dollars for permitting
his horse to work, while suffering pain and lameness caused
by what is known as a quarter crack. “It was one of the
worst cases of lameness I have seen in a long time,” said
the Soc1ety’s veterinary.

Benjamin Schmidt was charged in the Court of Special
Sessions with having caused and permitted a horse, owned
by him, to be cruelly treated. The animal was old, emaci—

, ated, sore, and lame, yet it was compelled to haul a loaded

wagon. The driver, a youth of eighteen, said he was hired
by Schmidt, and the latter knew the condition of the horse
at the time he left the stable. Schmidt was ﬁned seventy-
ﬁve dollars or to be imprisoned for thirty days. The horse
was humanely disposed of.

“ The horse was weak, lame, sore, and unﬁt for any work,”
said the ofﬁcer of the Society when testifying against Barney
Baker, who was charged with having permitted a horse to be
driven while in the condition described Baker saidhe paid

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

May 16.

May 18.

May 25.

May 26.

46

ﬁfteen dollars for the animal, which he thought was a good
price for a horse. The defendant was ﬁned twenty-ﬁve d01-
lars by the Court of Special Sessions.

Francis J. Ronan was sentenced to pay a ﬁne of ﬁfty d01—
lars or to be imprisoned for twenty days by the Court of
SpecialSessions, Judge Jerome presiding, for overdriving a
team of horses. For sometime complaints were received by
the Society of overdriving and other abuse by drivers of
horses hauling newspaper wagons. The reckless manner
in which horses were speeded through the streets was a
positive menace to the public safety, as well as cruelty to
the horses; and Judge- Jerome, when passing sentence,
warned Ronan, and through him other drivers, that if
brought to the Court of Special Sessions again on a similar
charge, a much more severe punishment would be imposed.

James Murray‘grew very angry because his team of horses,
which were hauling a truck loaded with bricks, got stalled
in a mud hole. The load. was heavy, the day very warm,
the horses tired and in poOr condition, yet Murray, not
taking all the unfavorable conditions into consideration, be—
gan to belabor the willing animals with his whip. As the
truck was sunk in the mud up to the hubs of the wheels,
no ten horses could have moved it, but Murray plied the
whip with all his strength upon the backs of the unoffend—
ing, helpless animals. Fortunate-1y, one of the Society’s
ofﬁcers arrived and put a stop to the cruelty by arresting
Murray and sending the tired horses to a livery stable. Mur—
ray was subsequently ﬁned twenty—ﬁve dollars by Justices
Holbrook, Hinsdale, and Jerome, of the Court of Special
Sessions, with the alternative of imprisonment for ten days.

For working a horse having the disease known as gland—
ers, John Gardella was ﬁned ﬁfty dollars by the Court of
Special Sessions. The horse was hauling a cart loaded with

'ashes through Sixth avenue. Glanders is an infectious dis-

ease, dangerous and fatal to human beings as well as ani—
mals. The diseased animal was at once humanely disposed

of, and the harness thoroughly disinfected.

The horse was lame, weak, and sore, yet in spite of its
physical condition, Isaac Levine was beating it most cruelly
with a whip. “Welts covered the horse’s body,” testiﬁed
the ofﬁcer, “and the animal could hardly stand up.” “ A

 




 

June 2.

June 7.

June 7.

June 8.

 

47

cruel act,” commented Judge Holbrook, when sentencing the
defendant to pay a ﬁne of ﬁfteen dollars.

Michael Tinkall, of Pelham Manor, N. Y., was advised
by an ofﬁcer of the Society to take his horse to the stable
for medical treatment, as the animal was suffering at the
time from sores on the body unprotected from the harness.
Tinkall unhitched the horse and, as the ofﬁcer believed,
started for the stable, but a short time afterward the ofﬁce-r
was surprised to see the horse hobbling along a side street,
hauling the loaded wagon. Tinkall fell from his seat when
the ofﬁcer hailed him. This time the horse was taken in
charge and Tinkall was arraigned before Police Justice
Lambden, of New Rochelle, who ﬁned him ﬁve dollars for
cruelty to the animal.

John Raynor, of Lyons, N. Y., was arrested by the So-
ciety’s local agent for unmercifully beating a horse. Raynor
was assisted by Charles Ellsworth, who was also taken into
custody. Both offenders were ﬁned ﬁve dollars each by
Justice Denchler.

Albert Warren, of Rushford, N. Y., was ﬁned ten dollars-
by Justice Johnson for brutally beating a horse.

Vito Ammo, an Italian who lives at Wakeﬁeld, N. Y., was
ﬁned ﬁfteen dollars by Judge Kellogg, of Yonkers, for.
cruelty to a horse. Officer Garnjost, of the Society, was in--
formed that a sick horse had been abandoned to die .in the
Pipe Line Road, near Sherwood Park. He at once started
to investigate the case, but when he arrived at the place he
found that the horse had just died. Garnjost made an ex—
amination of the animal. One of its legs was broken, and
the ofﬁcer learned that Ammo, knowing that the limb was,
fractured, had nevertheless tried to drive the horse to an
offal contractor’s farm several miles away, where he would
be paid one dollar for the hide if the horse were delivered
alive. The start Was made before daylight, but the tortured
beast gave out at the place mentioned above. That night
Garnjost arrested Ammo, and, at the trial, produced the
parts of: the broken limb, which proved the fracture to be
an old one, ’as the severed portion of the bones had been
worn smooth by friction together. The poor beast must
have suffered intense agony for a long time.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

June' IO.

June II.

June 12.

June 13.

June I3.

48

Adolpheus Leurs, of Cornwall, N. Y., was charged be—
fore Justice John J. Lawrence with cruelty to his horse.
Several witnesses at the trial testiﬁed that the horse was:
in a weak and feeble condition, emaciated, unnatural swell—
ing of the nigh hind leg, quarter crack on off fore foot, and
was compelled to haul a heavy wagon, loaded with 4,442
pounds of wood. The poor beast could hardly walk. Leurs
was found guilty and sentenced to pay a ﬁne of ﬁfteen dollars.

“ Patrick Keegan, you are sentenced to pay a ﬁne of ﬁfty
dollars or be conﬁned in the City Prison for twenty days,”
said presiding Justice Hinsdale, of the Court of Special
Sessions. Keegan was charged with cruelty to animals] He
had compelled a horse to work when it was suffering from
quittor on the nigh fore foot. The animal was limping
along on three legs, hauling a truck. Upon close examina—
tion by the Society’s veterinary surgeon, it was found that
the horse had glanders, which is a contagious disease, fully
as dangerous to human beings as to beasts. The horse was
humanely destroyed.

Northrup G. Wait, of Saratoga Springs, N. Y., was ﬁned
ﬁve dollars, or be imprisoned for ten days, by Justice Will—
iam J. Delany, for keeping a pair of horses in a ﬁlthy stable;
and otherwise neglecting the animals.

Samuel White, of Goshcn, N. Y., was arraigned before
Justice John B. Swezey upon the charge of having beaten
a horse on the head with an iron trace chain. Seven wit-
nesses testiﬁed to the brutal treatment of the animal at the
hands of the defendant, who was sentenced to pay a ﬁne of
ﬁfteen dollars.

Dominico Russo was arrested for cruelly beating a horse.
Although very feeble, the animal was harnessed to a wagon
loaded With heavy merchandise. The horse was completely
tired out, yet Russo declared that it was only lazy, and plied
the whip. To the man’s astonishment he was taken to the _
station house and the horse was placed in a veterinary hos—
pital. Twenty~ﬁve dollars ﬁne, or ten days in the City
Prison, was the sentence imposed by Justice Jerome, of the
Court of Special Sessions, with the signiﬁcant advice to
Russo not to be brought again before the Court on a similar
charge.




 

 

 

INTERIOR VIEW OF STEEL GAS TANK FOR THE HUMANE DESTRUCTION OF SMALL ANIMALS
Shelter for Animals, 102d Street and East River, New York.

 

 

 

 

 




7--“ thwvt auu LdDL RIVCI', New York

 

June 14.

June 14.

June 16.

June 17.

June 18.

51

Herman Fleeck, a poultry dealer. seized several live ducks
by the neck and was about to carry them in that manner
when he was arrested by one of the ofﬁcers of the Society.
The animals were nearly dead from suffocation, yet Fleeck'
would not admit that he had been cruel. He was ﬁned ﬁf—
teen dollars by Justice Hinsdale, of the Court of Special
Sessions.

For driving a horse that was suffering from quittor, very
lame, and in great pain, Otto Rickli was ﬁned twenty-ﬁve
dollars by Justice Jacobs, of the Court of Special Sessions,
with the alternative of imprisonment for ten days.

John Rosi was sentenced by Judge-Hinsdale, of the Court
of Special Sessions, to pay a ﬁne of twenty—ﬁve dollars, for
compelling a very lame horse to haul a loaded wagon. Rosi
was advised by the Society’s ofﬁcer to take the horse to the
stable and keep it there until in proper condition for work.
Rosi thanked the oﬁﬁcer for the good advice and unhar:
nessed the horse from the wagon and started ostensibly
for the stable. Twenty minutes later the ofﬁcer was sur—
prised to see Rosi driving the lame horse hitche'd'to the
loaded vehicle. He had simply gone a few blocks, and learn—
ing that the ofﬁcer had gone in an opposite direction, re-
turned and hitched up again. He will never try that game
again. A night’s imprisonment, with the ﬁne mentioned
above, taught him a lesson he will never forget.

“Thomas L. Bumford, you are charged with permitting
a horse to be worked while in a sore, weak, and feeble con—
dition; what have you to say?” inquired Justice Jerome of
the Court of Special Sessions. The defendant declared the
horse was well able for work, in spite of the testimony of
the driver and the Society’s veterinary, both of Whom stated
the animal was in no physical condition to haul a heavily
loaded express wagon. The defendant was sentenced to pay
a ﬁne of twenty—ﬁve dollars or to be imprisoned for ten
days. Judge Jerome also cautioned Bumiord not to be
brought to Court again on a similar charge.

“The horse was a physical wreck, a mere bag of bones,
lame, weak, and weary,” said a witness in the Court of Spe-
cial Sessions when describing the condition of a horse John
Vertongen was driving at the time of his arrest. The So—.
ciety’s veterinary surgeon testiﬁed that the horse was found‘

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

June 19.

June 21.

52

ered, spavined, knee-sprung, and unﬁt for any work. The
defendant protested the horse was all right, although he had
paid but ten dollars for it. The poor creature could hardly
walk into the ambulance, and was so weak On arrival at
the hospital that it was decided to mercifully end its suffering,
which was done. Vertongen was sentenced to pay a ﬁne of
twenty—ﬁve dollars or to be imprisoned for ten days, by
Judges Hinsdale, Jerome, and Jacobs.

Attached to a stage coach, loaded with passengers, was
a team of horses driven by William Bruen, of Unionport,
N. Y. One of the horses had a bad sore on the breast un
protected from the harness. Bruen’s attention was called
to- the wound by a police ofﬁcer, and he was advised to
take the animal to the stable for surgical treatment. This
Bruen promised to; do after he unloaded his passengers.
About an hour later the policeman saw Bruen driving the
same horses and in the same condition. He was advised
a second time to take the animal to the stable. This he
again promised to do, but later in the day the ofﬁcer found
Bruen driving the sore horse, which had been compelled to
work the entire day suffering from the wounded shoulder.
This time the ofﬁcer unharnessed the horse, and took it to
the stable, while the driver was locked up in the station
house and subsequently sentenced to pay a ﬁne of twenty-
ﬁve dollarsor to be imprisoned for ten days, by Judges
Hinsdale, Jerome, and Jacobs, of the Court of Special. Ses-

sions.

“ The horse wanted to eat my apples,” said Demetrius
Parrietus, when asked by Judge Jerome what he had to
say to the charge of striking a horse several times on the
head with a bar of iron. It appeared from the evidence,
that the horse was standing in the street, hitched to a truck,
when the defendant came along with a pushcart loaded
with apples and stopped close to the horse. The latter
stretched his head in the direction of the fruit, when Par—
rietus seized a bar of iron he had on his cart and struck
the. horse several blows on the head. “ It was a cruel act,”
commented Judge Jerome, when sentencing Parrietus to
pay a ﬁne of twenty—ﬁve dollars or to be imprisoned for
ten days; “and don’t you come here again on a similar
charge,” conCluded the presiding Justice.

 




 

July 2.

July 2.

July 3.

July 6.

July II.

July 18.

 

53

“Driving a team of horses while in a weak, sore, and
otherwise disabled condition from Yonkers to New Yorl-r
City, then back to Konkers with the wagon loaded with
merchandise,” was the charge against Catello Desimone, of
Yonkers. The Society’s ofﬁcer testiﬁed at the trial that
the horses were in a most pitiful condition, suffering in their
bodies and limbs. The defendant was ﬁned ten dollars by
Justice William C. Kellogg.

Wendeline Miller was sentenced to pay a ﬁne'of thirty-
ﬁve dollars or to be imprisoned for ten days, for causing and
permitting a horse, belonging to him, to be worked while
lame, sore, weak. and feeble. “The horse could hardly put
the injured foot to the ground,” said the veterinary surgeon,
“ yet was forced to haul a loaded cart out of an excavation.”
Judge Jerome, when imposing the above sentence, cautioned
the offender to be more careful in the future.

Levi 0. Thompson, of Buffalo, N. Y., was convicted of
overdriving and cruelly beating a weak, old horse, and was
ﬁned twenty—ﬁve dollars by Justice A. F. Clark.

“ Is it possible a human being can be so cruel,” exclaimed
Judge Holbrook, of the Court of Special Sessions, after
hearing the evidence of the Society’s veterinary surgeon in
the case of Frank Tiernan, who was charged with driving
a team of horses suffering from the following causes: Nigh
horse, ﬁstula on nigh side of neck; sore on off side of neck;
sore on breast; off horse, sores on both sides of breast,
and the wounds unprotected from the harness. Tiernan was
sentenced to pay a ﬁne of twenty—ﬁve dollars or to be im—
prisoned for ten days.

John R. Eckel, of Fort Plain, N. Y., agent for the Erie
Canal Boat Company, was ﬁned ﬁve dollars by Justice
Moyer, for permitting a mule and a horse to tow a loaded
boat through the canal, both animals suffering at the time
from large sores on the breast unprotected from the harness.
Both horse and mule were sent to a veterinary hospital,
pending their recovery. Russel Dervasum, the driver, was
also ﬁned ﬁve dollars for driving the animals.

Isaiah Rich, of Yonkers, N. Y., was convicted upon the
testimony of several witnesses, of having thrown a live dog
over a fence into a gully about ﬁfteen feet deep. The de-
fendant then went to where the dog lay and beat it with an

 

 

 




 

July 20.

 

 

 

July 26.

 

 

July 28.

 

 

 

54

iron shovel, striking it over twenty blows on the head. Rich
then dug a hole in the ground and buried the animal while
it was still alive. Justice William C. Kellogg ﬁned the de-
fendant ten dollars.

“ Lame, sore, weak, and feeble, suffering in its body and
limb-s, was the condition of the horse you are charged with
compelling to haul a loaded wagon through the streets
of the city; what have you to say to the charge?”
said Justice Jacobs to Samuel Brand, who was on
trial before the Court of Special Sessions. “Nothing,”
was the reply. “Well, then, this Court will say something,
and that is that you are sentenced to pay a ﬁne of thirty-
ﬁve dollars or to be imprisoned for ten days; and I advise
you, not to come here again on a similar charge,” said the
presiding justice.

Alexander Weil, of Greenpoint, L. I., was sentenced to
pay a ﬁne of twenty—ﬁve dollars or to be imprisoned for ﬁve
days for permitting one of his horses to be worked while
suffering from a horrible sore on the body measuring seven
inches long by three inches wide. The heavy saddle was
pressing into the ﬂesh, and in the language of the veterinary
surgeon, “ must have caused the animal great physical pain
and suffering.” The defendant, in a ﬂippant tone, said, “ I
don’t think the horse felt any pain.” “The Court thinks
otherwise,” said presiding Justice Hayes, of the Court of Spe-
cial Sessions, and he imposed the sentence mentioned above.

“ My horse was a good one,” said Meyer Bolenowitz, when
arraigned before Judges Hayes, Holbrook, and Hinsdale,
of the Court of Special Sessions, on a charge of cruelty to
animals. The charge was for driving a horse while lame,
sore, weak, and feeble, “absolutely unﬁt for any use,” testi-
ﬁed the veterinary surgeon. “I paid ﬁve dollars,” said the
defendant, in reply to Judge Hayes’s inquiry as to the value
of the animal. “The sentence of the Court is, you pay a
ﬁne of. twenty—ﬁve dollars or be imprisoned for ﬁve days.”
Bolenowitz served ﬁve days in the City Prison, and when
released left the State. The horse was meanwhile in the
veterinary hospital, but nothing could be done except to
alleviate its many ailments, which was done, and it was de-
cided to humanely put an end to any further suffering.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

8681 NI CIEIZIEIS EHHLHOL d0 SLNEWHHLSNI HWOS

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

Aug. 5.

Aug. IO.

Aug. 12.

57
“ Edgar Shoemaker, you are charged with cruelty to your
horse, in that you struck the animal several blows on the head
with the butt end of a whip; what have you to. say? ” inquired
presiding Justice Jerome, of the Court of Special Sessions.
Shoemaker smilingly replied, “ Oh, I did not hurt the horse.”
Several eye witnesses to the cruelty testiﬁed that Shoemaker
knocked the horse down twice by blows on the head with the
whip stock and that one of the eyes was badly injured as the
result of the abuse the animal was subjected to. “ There can
be no defense for such brutality inflicted upon a defenseless
dumb creature,” said Justice Jerome, addressing the prisoner,
“ and the sentence of the Court is you pay a ﬁne of one, hun—
dred dollars, or be imprisoned for thirty days,” associate '
Judges Hinsdale and Hayes concurring.

“ The horse was not only weak and emaciated and entirely
unﬁt for work, but the defendant was beating the animal un—
mercifully to make it go,” testiﬁed the Society’s ofﬁcer at the
trial of Isaac Deitchman before the Court of Special Sessions.
The prisoner appeared so stupid or ignorant that it was impos-
sible to get any intelligent response to Judge Jerome’s inquiry,
“ What have you to say to the charge? ” Through the Court
interpreter the defendant “ Had nothing to say.” Sentenced
to pay a ﬁne of ﬁfteen dollars, or to be imprisoned for three
days. '

John Muldoon, of Far Rockaway, L. I., was sentenced to
ﬁfteen days’ imprisonment in the county jail, for striking a cow
a violent blow on the small of the back with: an iron shovel,
thereby fracturing the animal’s spine. It was a case of bad
temper on the part of the defendant, and Judges Fleming,
Fitzgerald, and Courtney, of the Court of Special Sessions, of
the Second Division, were of the unanimous opinion as to the
defendant’s guilt. Presiding Judge Fleming warned Muldoon
that if he was ever brought before the Court again on a simi—
lar charge the punishment would be very severe. See page 56.

Thomas Branigan, of Fort Lee, N. J., was sentenced to pay
a ﬁne of seventy-ﬁve dollars, or to be imprisoned for twenty
days by the Court of Special Sessions, for causing and permit-
ting one of his horses to be worked while suffering in its body
and limbs. The animal was in a pitiable condition when seen
by the Society’s agent.

 

 




 

Oct. 5.

Oct. 16.

Oct. 27.

Nov. 3.

 

59

trial by the Court of Special Sessions. The condition of the
wretched beasts was so pitiful that they were photographed as
soon as they were received at the Shelter, in order that the
photographs might be offered in evidence at the trial. Three
of the dogs, a black-and—tan terrier, a spaniel, and a mon—
grel, were brought into Court and excited the sympathy of
every one in the court—room, even of the prisoners awaiting
sentence for various other crimes. One of the sixteen dogs
died three days after its admittance to the Shelter. Ten
others were so hopelessly past recovery that it was neces—

sary to put them out of their misery. Sandford would not .

admit that the animals had been longer than one day without
food. The case was adjourned, upon the request of the de-
fendant’s lawyers, but the motion for a new trial was not con—
sidered by the Court. On October 31, Justice Holbrook sen-
tenced Sandford to imprisonment for thirty days in the City
Prison. As the prisoner had already been thirty days in jail
awaiting his sentence, the total imprisonment will be sixty
days, a fact which was taken into consideration by Justice
Holbrook. In passing sentence, the justice warned Sandford
that if he should be again convicted of cruelty! to animals he
would have to suffer the full penalty of the law. See page 21.

Leo Schneider, of Yonkers, was convicted in the City
Court, Judge Kellogg presiding, of having administered paris
green to a neighbor’s poultry. The defendant was ﬁned ten
dollars.

For cruelly beating a horse on the body with a heavy stick
of wood, John Fanning was sentenced to pay a ﬁne of twenty—
ﬁve dollars, or to be imprisoned for ﬁve days. Presiding
Judge Holbrook warned Fanning not to come to Court again
on a similar charge.

William Welsh beat his horse over the head and body With
a whip because the animal was physically unable to haul a
loaded truck. The horse was lame and should have been in
the hospital instead of at work. The evidence at the trial of
Welsh showed that he was merciless in his treatment of the
horse. Twenty-ﬁve dollars ﬁne, or imprisonment for ﬁve days
was the sentence imposed by the Court of Special Sessions.

Richard D. Carroll was ﬁned thirty—ﬁve dollars by the Court
of Special Sessions for unmercifully beating a horse with a

 

 

u i
1‘ ‘9.
.. m
\ ,i
«i»,
' i‘wri
..
i
.i,
Mr
‘I
‘r
‘l
_ ;‘
,1'
ii.
i. ..
I ..
.|,
‘ ,1
it i.
.v .
“:
. v
.3
A
. .
.l.
. i
.
.
r .
I‘,
l
ill
I
i
w 1
1 ‘1
i i
1.3,
.-;.
‘ll
. l.‘
. Lu
‘l
w.
i ‘i‘
, ,
gait?
l I. ‘
r e
.,
‘i‘
,"l'
‘r..
.[t‘v
..
fii
J.
W
,wl.‘
'li‘
ya,
"M
H,
‘ !
“r ‘.
In:
.Llﬁ'
iv.“
i
'7) !
‘w‘u‘
13'"
..
.i-l
I'r
:‘A
I'i

. 3—,; <7

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

Nov. 4.

Nov. 16.

Nov. 21.

NOV. 30.

Dec. 2.

Dec. _6. _

     
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
   
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  

6o

whip. The horse was attached to a loaded dump cart which
had become stalled up to the wheel hubs in the mud. Ten
horses could not budge the load, but Carroll Believed other—
wise, and, losing his temper, vented his anger on the unoffend—

ing horse.

Compelling a horse to hobble along on three legs from
West Farms to Yonkers, was the substance of a charge of
- cruelty made against W alter Connors, of Yonkers. The horse
was suffering from a quittor on the nigh fore foot, and the
hoof had almost rotted off. It is nearly ten miles between
West Farms and Yonkers, yet the crippled horse had been
forced to follow behind a wagon to which was harnessed a
fast trotting horse. Carroll was sentenced to- pay a ﬁne of
twenty dollars, or to be imprisoned for twenty days by Judge
Kellogg, and the suffering animal humanely destroyed.

August Kaempfner was ﬁned thirty—ﬁve dollars by the

Court of Special Sessions for permitting a horse belonging to
him to be worked in the public streets while having a disease

known as glanders.

James T. Gowen was ﬁned ten dollars by the Court of Spe—
cial Sessions for cruelly beating a lame horse. In addition
to the beating Gowen jerked the bit so viciously as to cut the

horse’s mouth.

Morris Gluck was sentenced, by the Court of Special Ses—
sions to pay a ﬁne of twenty—ﬁve dollars, with the alternative
of imprisonment for ten days for beating a horse in a brutal
manner with the butt end of a whip. The animal was in a
weak and feeble condition at the time of the beating.

James Reilly was charged, in‘ the Court of Special Sessions,
with driving a team of horses which were suffering from
sores on the breast unprotected from the harness. “The
sores were very bad and were of long standing,” testiﬁed the
Society’s ofﬁcer. Reilly was sentenced to pay a ﬁne of twen—
ty—ﬁve dollars, or to be imprisoned for ten days.

“ The horse was lame, sore, weak, and feeble. and unﬁt for
any work whatsoever,” testiﬁed the Society’s ofﬁcer at the
trial of Carter Heath, charged with cruelty to animals before
the Court of Special Sessions. Heath plead guilty to the
charge, and was sentenced to [pay a ﬁne of twenty—ﬁve dollars,
or to be imprisoned for ten days.

 

 




 

 

Dec. 7.

Dec.

Dec.

Dec.

Dec.

I4.

16.

16.

19.

  

61

William Doris was sentenced to pay a ﬁne of seventy-ﬁve
dollars, or to be imprisoned for thirty days for driving a de-
crepit horse to a coal truck. The animal was emaciated, sore,
and worn out. Doris was employed by Burns Brothers, coal
dealers, and upon his statement that he was obliged by the
stable foreman to drive. the disabled horse, a warrant of arrest
was issued for the latter person, and he was held in $300 bail
for trial at General Sessions.

John Faherty caused and permitted one of his horses to be
driven by John Sullivan while the animal was suffering from
horrible sores on the body, measuring 5 x5 inches and 2 x2
inches, unprotected from "the harness. The Court of Special
Sessions, Judges Jerome, Hayes, and Jacobs, sentenced Fah—

erty to pay a ﬁne of twenty—ﬁve dollars, or to be imprisoned
for ten days.

Hobert Robinson, of New Brighton, S. I., for abandoning
and leaving a horse without food or shelter for several days,
was ﬁned ten dollars by the Court of Special Sessions of the
Second Division, Judge Fitzgerald presiding.

Dominico Donnatto, for carrying live poultry in a cruel and
inhuman manner, was ﬁned twenty-ﬁve dollars, by the Court
of Special Sessions, Judge Jacobs presiding. There were
forty-four full—grown chickens in a box measuring 4 X 3 feet.

The animals could not move, and many were almost dead
from suffocation.

Jacob Clemens was charged with cruelly beating a sick
horse with a wire whip. The animal had fallen in the street
from exhaustion, and, being unable to rise, Clemens resorted
to harsh measures. “ The sentence of the Court is you pay a
ﬁne of twenty—ﬁve dollars, or be- imprisoned for ten days,”
said presiding Judge Jerome, of the Court of Special Sessions,
to the defendant, who remained silent when asked if there
was any reason “ Why sentence should not be pronounced.”

See page 56.

  
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
  

 

 

 

Tﬁcin—ggga g: ‘i

he,

    

 
  

vaﬁé‘ss

        
     

ﬁwaxT‘ “.5 4. r: - 4

 
  

gar thA-‘ﬁx

"ff‘a,

    

x

  




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

OUR ANIMAL FRIENDS

AN ILLUSTRA TED MOJVTHLY MAGAZINE

THE ORGAN OF

The American Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals

 

CONTAINING ORIGINAL AND INSTRUCTIVE ARTICLES OF INTEREST TO ALL ANIMAL OWNERS

COURT NOTES

HEADQUARTERS, NOTES
THE VETERINARIAN

THE LIBRARY
YOUNG PEOPLE’S . MUSEUM, ETC.

d Interesting Miscellany by Well-known

Also Serial and Short Stories an
- Writers

SUBSCRIPTION, ONE DOLLAR PER YEAR

Published at the Headquarters of the Society, Madison Avenue and
‘ Twenty-sixth Street, New York

 




 

63

MANUAL OF

KINDNESS T0 ANIMALS

For Use in Schools, Sunday-schools, and
Families

“ Is well calculated to engage the child’s attention, and teach it to be
humane to all living creatures. ”—JVPZU York ’Iribmie.

“ It aims to teach the utility of animals as an argument against their
torture, and the preface suggests that individuals are cruel ‘through
want of thought, rather than want of heart.’ ”—New York Herald. -.

“ Admirably constructed to impress on the youthful mind kind treat—
ment to all the brute creation.”—5/>irii of the Times.
“ Perusal of its pages warrants us in predicting for it a most useful

career.”——The Rider and Driver.

“ It is a useful and suggestive book for children, and it contains some
instruction which a large number of adults are much in need of.”—
New York World.

“ The little manual should ﬁnd lodging in the living—room of all fam—
ilies where there are young children, or where horses, cats, dogs, rabbits,
birds, cows, poultry, gold—ﬁsh, or other animals are kept for use or
amusement.”—P/iiladelpliia Ledger.

Sample copies, four cents each-

Published at Headquarters of the Society, Madison
Ave. and 26th St., New York

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

DRINKING FOUNTAINS FOR MAN AND N.
BEAST. V

   
   
 
  
   
 
 

There is great need for additional drinking fountains for man
and beast. The Society has already erected many and is ine
creasing the number as fast as its funds will allow. A most ap—
propriate donation could be made by friends of animals, by the
erection of fountains under the direction of the Society, and
bearing the names of the donors. The cost of erecting a foun—
tain similar to that represented in the above illustration, includ~
ing plate with name of donor, is, in the City of New York,
about two hundred and ﬁfty dollars.

  




 

SOCIETIES OF NORTH AND SOUTH
AMERICA.

' SOCIETIES IN NORTH AND SOUTH AMERICA ORGANIZED AND INCOR-
PORATED SINCE THE FORMATION OF THE AMERICAN SOCIETY
FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS—THE
PARENT SOCIETY—AND IN CORRESPONDENCE WITH IT.

 

NEW YORK.

THE. AMERICAN SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF
CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.

Incorporated April 10, 1866.
HEADQUARTERS:
ZI/[adiSOh Ave. and 26th St, NEW YORK.
JOHN P. HAINES, President. I GEO. G. DEVVITT, Secretary.
BROOKLYN OFFICE:
I 3 W illo-it ghby Street.
F. O. CLARK, Inspector.

 

ALABAMA.
Mobile Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
16 South Royal Street, Mobile.

HON. RUFUS DANE, President. MAJOR E. R. QUATTLEBAUM,
. Secretary.

Birmingham Humane Society.
715 Eighteenth Street, Bit/mingham.
REV. SAMUEL ULLMAN, Pres. I DR. A. N. BALLARD, Secretary.

 

ARIZONA.

Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals of Tucson, Ariz.

Tucson.
WM. HERRING, President. I LEMUEL H. MCHENRY, Sec.

 

 

  




 

69

Santa Cruz Ccunty Humane Society.
Santa- Cruz.
DR. C. L. ANDERSON, President.I MRS. D. T. WILKIN,‘ Secretary.
Fresno Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Fresno.
W. B. PARSONS, President. I WM. HARVEY, Secretary.
Marin County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Sansatito.
A. SYLVA, President. I DR. C. E. CASE, Secretary.
COLORADO.

Colorado Humane Society.-
5 Jacobson Building, Denver.
WALTER S. CHEESMAN, Pres. I E. K. WHITEHEAD, Secretary.

El Paso County Branch of the Colorado Humane Society.
Colorado Springs.
WM. F. SLOCUM, President. I F. B. HILL, Secretary.

.——...

CONNECTICUT.
The Connecticut Humane Society.
‘ Hartford.

RODNEY DENNIS, President. I CHANDLER E. MILLER, See.
The New Haven Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
N ew H (men.

PROFESSOR BREWER, President. I EDWIN A. SMITH, Secretary.

Meriden Humane Society.

M eriden. .
MRS. MARY J. ROGERS, Pres. MRS. FRANCES W. HAM—
MOND, Secretary.
DELAWARE.

Delaware Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
606 .Mar/cet Street, PV/z'l'lnington.

DR. EVAN G. SHORTLIDGE, WILLARD H. PORTER, Sec.
President. '

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

7O

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
The Washington Humane Society.
Room 10, San Building, l/Vaslnngton, D. C.
A. S. PRATT, President. I MRS. W. F. STOWELL,‘ Sec.

_————————-~

FLORIDA.
St. Augustine Humane Society.
5 t. Augustine. _
WARD G. FOSTER, President. I LOUIS LARSON, Secretary.
The Jacksonville Society for the Prevention‘of Cruelty to Animals.
. Jacksonville.
0. PIERRE HAVENS, President. | B. H. CHADWICK, Secretary.

Humane Society.

Pensacola.
S. S. HARVEY, President. | FRANK MAURA, Secretary.
Tampa Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Tampa.

W. G. BARTHOLOMEW, Pres. I MISS JENNY E. BABBITT, Sec.

 

GEORGIA.
Georgia Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
, I M cfntosh Street, Aagasta. ‘
HON. HENRY B. KING, Pres. l S. R. CRAIG, Secretary.
- Atlanta Humane Society.
Atlanta.
JOS. F. BURKE, President. I I. S. PANCHEN, Secretary.

The Macon Branch of the Georgia Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals.

1% acon.
. ROBT. E. PARK, President. I MRS. T. O. CHESTNEY, Sec.
. Brunswick Humane Society.
Brunswick.
MRS. I. E. DU BIGNON, Pres. 1 MRS. I. E. DU BIGNON, Sec.

 




 

 

RICHMOND SHELTER FOR ANIMALS. OFFICE
Wave Street, Stapleton, Borough of Richmond

 

 




 

SWENNED! DOCI DNIMOHS HOGIHEIOQ NIVW 'SWVWIN‘V’ 80:1 BEIJIIEIHS CINOWHOIH

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

73

ILLINOIS.

The Illinois Humane Society.
560 I/Vabash Avenue, C hicago. .
JOHN G. SHORTALL, Pres. I BELDEN F. CULVER, Sec.

The Aurora Humane Society.

Aurora.
A. K. PERRY, President. I MRS. C. M. FAIRCHILD—
' I ALLEN, Secretary.
Winnebago County Branch of The Illinois Humane Society.
Rockford.

WM. H. FITCH, M.D., President.l MRS. ROBERT REW, Secretary.
The Quincy Humane Society. V I. 1
Quincy.
H. P. WALTON, President. [LYMAN MCCARL, Secretary.
The Shelby County Branch of The Illinois Humane Society.
Shel b yville.
DR. T. L. CATHERWOOD, Pres. I NIRS. H. J. HAMLIN, Secretary.
Champaign Branch of The Illinois Humane Society.

C ham poi gn.

HENRY TREVETT, President. I A. H. BRYAN, Secretary.
The Humane Society of Springﬁeld.

Springﬁeld.

FRANK W. TRACY, President. I HOWARD K. WEBER, Sec.
Jacksonville Humane Society.

Jacksonville.

A. C. WADSWORTH, President. I WM. PATERSON, Sec. pro tem.

The Jerseyville Humane Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals and Children.

ferseyville.

MISS ADA C. DAVENPORT, I DR. H. R. GLEDHILL, Secretary.
, President.

Harvard Branch of The Illinois Humane Society.
H arvard.
W. C. WELLINGTON, President. I MRS. W. C. WELLINGTON. Sec.

 

 

 

 




   

 

 

 

 

 

74

United States Humane Society.
13 East M ain Street, Danville.
JOHN W. HALLS, President. I I. N. KINNEY, Secretary.
The Whitehall Humane Society.
Whitehall.
JOHN H.5TUBBLEFIELD, Pres.I H. O. TUNISON, Secretary.

 

INDIANA.
The Indiana Humane Society.
, 42 Lombard Building, Indianapolis.
HORACE MCKAY, President. IJ‘A MES SMITH, Secretary.

Montgomery County Humane Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals and Children.

C rawfordsville.

'. GEORGE W. PAUL, President. I A. H. BRADEN, Secretary.

The Evansville Humane Society for the Prevention .of Cruelty to
\ Women, Children, and Animals.

315 Upper Fourth Street, Evansville.
S. S. SCANTLIN, President. I WILL WARREN, Secretary.
A Fort Wayne Humane Society. '
82 Clinton Street, Fort Wayne.
GEO. H. WILSON, President. I C. E. ARCHER, Secretary.
The South Bend Humane Society.

' South Bend.
J. C. KNOBLOCH, President. I H. A. PERSHIN G, Secretary.

Terre Haute Humane Society.

Terre H aute.
DR. E. E. GLOVER, President. I DR. E. B. MCALLISTER, Sec.

Muncie Humane Society.

M uncie.
DR. T. J. BOWLES, President. IVV. R. MOORE, Secretary.

The Elkhart Humane Society.
206 Main Street, Elle/tart.

A. P. KENT, President. I LOUIS M. SIMPSON, Secretary

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
   

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

. i?!

 

76

Henderson Humane Society.

Henderson.
, President. | INGRAM CROCKETT, Sec.

 

, Franklin County Humane Society.
Frankfort.
LOUIS MANGAN, President. I B. T. FARMER, Secretary.
The Kenton County Humane Society.

91 5 Seott Street, C ovington.

H. A. SCHROETT ER, President. I MRS. FRANCES C. MANSER,
| Secretary.

LOUISIANA.
Louisiana State Societylfor Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

606 Con-nnercial Place, New Orleans.

FREDERICK W. YOUNG, Pres. HON. BERNARD C.
SHIELDS, Sec.

—_

MAINE.

Maine State Society for the Protection of Animals.

Portland.

HON. STANLEY T. PULLEN, ' DR. H.- C. VAUGHAN, Sec.
President. l ’

The Bangor Humane Society.
Bangor. '
JOSEPH F. SNOW, President. I MRS. M. L. PATTEN, Secretary.

Waterville Society for Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

I/Vaterville.

H. D. EATON, President. I JOHN WARE, Secretary.
Lewiston and Auburn Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals.

Lewiston.

WESLEY BLANCHARD, Pres. I F. B. SANDS, Secretary.

 




 

77

MARYLAND.
The Maryland Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
323 North Charles Street, Baltimore. .»
ROBERT A. TAYLOR, Presidentl GEO. R. TIPPETT, Secretary.

 

MASSACHUSETTS.
The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
19 Milk Street, Boston.
GEO. T. ANGELL, President. I JOSEPH L. STEVENS, Sec.
Taunton Humane Society.
18 Clinton Street, Taunton.

REV. T. CLAYTON WELLES, 1 MRS. THOS. J. TAYLOR, Sec.
President. ~

The Lowell Humane Society.
71 Central Street, Lowell.

C. H. COBURN, President. MRS. GEO. F. RICHARDSON,
Secretary.

———__

MICHIGAN.
Michigan Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Detroit.
HON. T. W. PALMER, President. IT. A. PARKER, Secretary.
Kent County Humane Society. A
Grand Rapids.

REV. LESLIE W. SPRAGUE, I A. C. TORREY, Secretary.
President. I

’ Kalamazoo Humane Society.
Kalamazoo.
HON. A. J. MILLS, President. I SAMUEL FOLZ, Secretary. .

__

MINNESOTA.
The Minnesota Society for the Prevention of Cruelty.

Relief Society Building, 141 East Ninth Street, St. Paul.
DANIEL R. NOYES. President. I THOMAS A. ABBOTT, Sec.~

 

 

 

 

 




     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
   

78

Minneapolis Humane Society.
. 504 Bank of C ommerce B adding, Minneapolis.
FRANK H. FORBES, President. I MRS. C. A. MEISER, Secretary.

 

- Duluth Humane Sotiety.
415 Providence Block, Duluth.
REV. A. W. RYAN, President. I I. B. MIDDLECOFF, Secretary.

St. Paul Society, for Prevention of Cruelty.
C hamber of C ommerce Building, St. Paul.
W. L. WILSON, President. (”MISS A. V. WRIGHT, Secretary.

Steele County Humane Society.
Owotmma. .
B. S. COOK, President. I DR. W. AMOS, Secretary.

 

The Winona Humane Society.
I'Vinond.
. . ALLAN BELL. President. | A. W. FUHRMAN, Secretary.
5: _ St. Cloud Humane Society.
3 ’ St. Cloud.
l N WM. B. MITCHELL, President. I S. S. PARR, Secretary.
The Red Wing Humane Society.

Red I/Vmg.

A. J. MEACHAM, President. I DR. F. W. DIMMITT, Secretary.

 

 

 

5» ‘ Rochester. Humane Society.
E {1. Rochester.
. 1‘11“, ‘il PROF. F. D. BUDLONG, Pres. U. W. SOULE, Secretary.

1 ‘l » Stillwater Humane SocietY-

 

 

 

3‘ 11:5. Stillwater.
p; G. E. CLARK, President. I FRANK T. WILSON, Secretary.
I MISSISSIPPI.
The Mississippi Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
131315}; A Natchez.

JOHN P. W ALWORTH, Pres. l RICHARD F. REED, Secretary.

 

 

 

A




 

 

 

 

 

RICHMOND SHELTER FOR ANIMALS. GAS CHAMBER FOR THE HUMANE DESTRUCTION OF ANIMALS

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

ONLLVEIH 'S'WWINV 80:1 831131-18 GNOWHDIH

SﬂLVHVddV ONINOOO GN‘V'

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




81

MISSOURI.
The Humane Society. of Missouri.
506 and 508 Columbia Building, Eighth and Locust Streets,
St. Louis.
GEO. D. BARNARD, President. I JOHN H. HOLMES, Secretary.

The Woman’s Humane Society of. Missouri.
617 Locust Street, St. Louis.
MRS. T. G. COMSTOCK, Pres. I MISS M. W. BRADFORD, See.
The Humane Society of Kansas City, Mo.
City Hall, Kansas City.
HON. EDWIN R. WEEKS, Pres. I F. M. FURGASON, Secretary.
The Humane Society of St. Joseph, Mo.
Central Police Station, St. Joseph. ,
HUSTON VVYETH, President. I PAUL FRANCKE, Secretary.
The Humane Society of Sedalia, Mo.
S edalia.
H. T. WILLIAMS, President. I LEE MONTGOMERY, Sec.

—__._

~ NEBRASKA.
The Nebraska Humane Society.
15 Commercial National Bank Building, Omaha.
DR. GEORGE L. MILLER, Pres. I H. S. MANN, Secretary.
The South Omaha Humane Society.
'Sonth Omaha.
COL. J. L. MARTIN, President. I MISS HETTIE MOORE, Sec.
NEW HAMPSHIRE.
New Hampshire Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
1‘ Market Street, Portsmouth.
JOHN J. PICKERING, President. | JAMES R. MAY, Secretary.
The Keene Humane Society.

Keene.
GEN. S. G. GRIFFIN, President. I MRS. JOSEPH MADDEN, Sec.

 

 




     
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
    

 

 

 

 

 

82

NEW JERSEY.

The New Jersey Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
507 Prudential Building, Newark.

CHRISTOPHER ROBERTS, I COL. E. S. EDWARDS, Sec.
President. I

The Hudson County District Society for the Prevention of Cruelty

to Animals.
I71 Montgomery Street, Jersey City.
GEORGE M. MCCARTHY, Pres. l ABEL P. BROWN, Secretary.
Cape May County, N. J., District Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals.

C ape ZVIay.

DR. EMLIN PHYSICK, Pres. I T. R. BROOKS, Secretary.

The Vineland Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

V inelarid.

REV. R. B. MOORE, President. I REV. R. B. MOORE, Secretary.

The Morris County Branch of The New Jersey Society for,the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

M orristowii. -
DR. FAYETTE SMITH, Pres. I MISS LOUISE SHELTON, Sec.
The Camden Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
~ ‘ C arr/idem.
WILLIAM J. COOPER, President] A. T. SELLERS, Secretary.
The Bergen County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
. H ackerisack. . . ,
REV. JOHN C. VOORHIS, Pres. I CHAS. W. VANDERBECK, Sec.

The Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals of Union
County, N. J.

Elizabeth.
E. P. EDWARDS, President. | J. c. COLE, Secretary.
Perth Amboy Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
. Perth Amboy. ‘

DR. FRANCIS W'. KITCHEL, WILBUR LA ROE, Secretary.
President.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

84

ERIE COUNTY.
The Erie County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Incorporated September 21, 1888.
39 Erie S treet, Buﬁ‘alo.
REV. O. P. GIFFORD, President. I MRS. LILY LORD TIFFT. Sec.

DUT CHESS COUNTY.
The Poughkeepsie Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Ani
Incorporated May 18, 1889.
305 Mill S treet, Ponghkeepsie.

WILLIAM B. CARPENTER, CHARLES E. COSSUM, Sec.
President.

 

mals.

ORANGE COUNTY.
The Newburgh Society for the Prevention of Cru
Incorporated July 22, 1889.
N ewbtw’ git.
GEORGE W'. PETERS, President. I A. E. LAYMAN, Secretary.

___-.__——

 

elty to Animals.

OS'WEGO COUNTY.
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals of Oswego City,
N. Y.
Incorpo-rted September 23, 1889.
Doolittle H owe, Oswego.
T. MORRIS PEROT, President. | MRS. G. M. GARDENIER, Sec.

Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals of the Village of
Fulton, N. Y.

Incorporated November 17, 1891.
Fulton.
THOMAS HUNTER, President. I MRS. C. H. DAVID, Secretary.

___-_———

ONONDAGA COUNTY.

The Central New York Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals.

Incorporated January 16, 1891.
207 Gmnger Block, Syracuse.
DWIGHT H. BRUCE, President. I JOHN R. CLANCY, Secretary.

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
  
 
 
 
 

 

 

  

 




 

 

 

  

85

ROCKLAND COUNTY.

Rockland County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Incorporated February 20, 1891.
Nyack.
DR. HARVEY C. GILCHREST, |WILLIAM K. COLSEY, Sec.
President. I
CHEMU N G COUNTY.
The Elmira Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Incorporated February 21, 1891.

 

Elmira.
DR. FRANK H. FLOOD, Pres. I MRS. SEYMOUR DEXTER, Sec.

 

ABROOME COUNTY.
Broome County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Incorporated March 23, 1891.
Binghamton.

—_

ULSTER COUNTY.
The Ulster County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
' Incorporated July 25, 1891.
Kingston.
JOHN MCENTEE, President. | W. D. HALE, Secretary.

JEFFERSON COUNTY.
Jefferson County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Incorporated December 5, I891.
”Qt/fermion.

JNO. C. KNOWLTON, MRS. GEO. H. BABCOCK, Sec.
Acting President.

 

ALBANY COUNTY.
The Mohawk and Hudson River Humane Society.
Incorporated March 8, 1892.
287 State Sireet, Albany.
DR. WM. O. STILLMAN, Pres. | GEORGE R. HOWELL, Sec.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

86

NIAGARA COUNTY.
The Niagara County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
8 7 Incorporated May 24, 1895.
Lockport.
I MISS ALICE E. CROCKER, Sec.

_——.———

CORTLAND COUNTY

The Cortland County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals.

Incorporated April 17, 1895.
Cortland.
" - CALVIN P. WALRAD, President. | EN OS E. MELLON, Secretary.

F. J. SAWYER, President.

 

ONEIDA COUNTY.

~The Stevens Saciety for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals of
Rome, N. Y.

Incorporated March 31, 1896.
Rome.

DR. C. OLIN ZIMMERMANN, ARTHUR A. GILLETTE, Sec.
President. . , ,.

 

CAYUGA COUNTY.
The Cayuga County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
8 ’ Incorporated October 26, 1896.
Auburn.
, F. C. LADD, President. I GEO. A. BREWSTER, Sec.

NORTH CAROLINA.
The North Carolina Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
I7 Paragon Building, Ashew'lle.

HANFORD N. LOCKWOOD, WALTER S. CUSHMAN, Sec.
President.

NorthCarolina Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children
and Animals.

I’Vilmington.
ALEX. S. HEIDE, President. I F. A. LORD, Secretary.

 

 




 

 

S'IVWINV 80:1 BEIJIIHHS CINOWHOIH

SHDVO .LVC)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

l' ‘ W H
h W
{WM
“A, W
“‘1‘ A
H"

\
\

 




 

89

OHIO.
The Ohio Humane Society.
24 East Ninth Street, Cincinnati.
BENJAMIN C. SMITH, Pres. I MISS CECILIA RITTER, Sec.

Cleveland Humane Society.
Cleveland.
GEN. JAMES BARNETT, Pres. I H. A. GARFIELD, Secretary.

The Canton Humane Society.
Frazer Block, Canton.

W. W. CLARK, President. I CHARLES R. FRAZER, Sec.
'Humane Society of the City of Columbus, Ohio.
Columbus.

JULIUS F. STONE, President. "I FRANK P. JACKSON, Sec.

Toledo Humane Society.
313 Adams Street, Toledo.
HON. JAMES M. BROWN, Pres. I W. W. H. SMITH, Secretary.

The Trumbull County Humane Society.
Warren.
GEORGE P. HUNTER, Pres. I MARY C. IDDINGS, Secretary.

Dayton, Ohio, Humane Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Children and Animals.

8 North Jefferson Street, Dayton.
IRWIN C. SOUDERS, President. | BENJAMIN MAROT, Sec.
Athens Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Athens.
D. J. EVANS, President. . I MRS. A. J. FRAME, Secretary.
The Erie County Humane Society.
Sandusky. '
A. E. MERRILL, President. I MRS. FANN Y F. EVERETT, Sec.
Scioto County Humane Society.
Portsmouth.

E. E. EWING, President. I HARRY BALL, Secretary.

 

 

 

 




     
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

90

Ashtabula County Humane Society.

Ashtabnla.
w. M. STRADER, President. ' IMRS.W._M. PENFIELD, Sec.

The Chagrin Falls Humane Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Children and Animals.

Chagm’n Falls.
A. H. WILLIAMS, President. I C. E. RYDER, Secretary.
Pomeroy Branch Humane Society.
PomerOy.
REV. MR. SCHMITZ, President. I MRS. H. J. EWING, Secretary.
The Youngstown Humane Society.
Youngstown.
REV. S. R. FRAZIER, President. I MRS. J. J. HAMILTON, Sec.
Yellow Springs Humane Society.
Yellow Springs.
CHARLES HAMILTON, Pres. I CHARLES E. ADAMS, Sec.
Seneca County Humane Society.
Tifﬁn.
DR. E. J. MCCOLLUM, President. I IRVINE N .'REX, Secretary.

 

The Chardon Humane Society.
Chardon.
C. COWLES, President. IM. L. MAYNARD, Secretary.

Huron County Humane Society.
N orwalk.
F. B. CASE, President. I MISS MARY A. STEWART, Sec

The Humane Society of New Lexington.
‘ N ew Lexington.

REV. HENRY BEEMAN, Pres. I MRS FRANCES L RINEHART
Secretary.

The Lima Branch of The Ohio Humane Society.

Lima.
R. C. EASTMAN, President. I MRS. ELLA GERMANN, Sec.

 




 

 

  

91

OREGON.
The Oregon Humane Society.
72 Third Street, Portland.
T. L. ELIOT, President: IW. T. SHANAHAN, Secretary.

PENNSYLVANIA.
The Pennsylvania Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
1627 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia.

COL. M. RICHARDS MUCKLE, M. V. B. DAVIS, Secretary.
President.

The Women’s Pennsylvania Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals.
I 530 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia.

MRS. R. P. WHITE, President lMRS. BRADBURY BEDELL,
Secretary.

Lancaster County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

7 Lancaster.
D. S. BURSK, President. | WM. D. MOSSER, Secretary.
The York County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
York.

CHAS. A. KLINEFELTER, Pres. l H. W. MCCALL, Secretary.
Western Pennsylvania Humane Society.
440 S ixth Avenue, Pittsburg.
HON. GEORGE WILSON, Pres. I T. M. PORTER, Secretary.

The Chester County Auxiliary of the Women’s Branch of The Penn-
sylvania Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

West Chester. _

MRS. S. C. MASSEY, President. IWILLIAM S. KIRK, Secretary.
Berks County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
536 Penn Street, Reading.

JOHN D. MISHLER, President. IJOSEPH A. ALLGAIER, Sec.

Lycoming County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

1120 West Fourth Street, Williamsport.
MRS. C. LA RUE MUNSON, Pres.l MRS. JAMES P. HERDIC, Sec.

 

 

 

 

   
 
   
   
   
    
    

 

 

 




    
  
 
 
  
    
   
  
 
 
  
   
    
 
 
 
  
    
 
    
 
 

93

The Greenville Branch of The South Carolina Society for the Pre-
vention of Cruelty to Animals.

Geeenville. I
DR. H. M. PERRY, President. [FRANK B. McBEE, Secretary. ‘

The Spartanburg Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Spartanbwg.
J. B. LEE, President. I CHARLES H. HENRY, Sec.
TENNESSEE.
Tennessee Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals and a
Children.
337 Mississippi Avenue, Memphis.
TOM GALE, President. I TURNER H..LANE, Acting Sec.

Chattanooga Humane Society.
' Chattanooga.
D. G. CURTIS, M.D., President. | H. H. SOUDER, Secretary.

 

Knox County Humane Society.
Knoxville. '
W. L. TRENT, President. I REV. W. H. BATES, Secretary.
Nashville Humane Society. - all
P. O. Box 46, Nashville. A

REV. JAMES I. VANCE, D.D., MAT HOKE, Secretary. . - - , . l5
President. .

 

 

The Madison County Humane Society.
Jackson. '
KEV. M. A. MATTHEWS, Pres. IL. R. GRIFFIN, Secretary.

TEXAS.

The Galveston Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

 

 

Galveston.

The Texas Humane Society.
Waco.
, President. I ROBERT J. BROOKS, Sec.

 

  

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

     
  
    
 
 
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

94

The Austin Humane Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Austin.
MRS. I. H. EVANS, President. I]. E. OLDRIGHT, Secretary.

__-._————

UTAH.
Utah Humane Society.
Salt Lake City.
DR. T. B. BEATTY, President. I J. W. GREENMAN, Secretary.

____———-—

’ VERMONT.
The! Vermont Humane Society.
Chester.
GEO. H. WALDRON, President. IA. N. CHANDLER, Secretary.
The Brattleborough Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
. Brattleborongh.

DR. GEO. F. GALE, President. I MRS. MARY C. WARDER, Sec.
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Rntland.

T. L. DRURY, President. I T. L. DRURY, Secretary.

The Vermont Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

 

Burlington. .
COL. HORACE J. BROOKS, Pres. l H. P. WHITCOMB, Secretary.
Chester Humane Society.
Chester.
GEO. H. WALDRON, President. | MERRILL WRIGHT, Secretary.
The Randolph Humane Society.
Randolph.
JAMES A. FOWLER, President. 1 G. W. MORROW, Secretary.

 

VIRGINIA. ,

Richmond Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
618 East Main Street, Richmond.

DR. IUD. B. WOOD, President. I E. C. MAYO, Secretary.

 

 




  

95

  
 
    
 
   
  
    
 
  
   
 
  
   
  
   
 
  
  
   
  
   

Norfolk Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
106 M am Stt'eet, N orfolk. I
L. CLAY KILBY, President. I I W. B. BARTON, Secretary.
Woman’s Humane Society of Virginia.
' Poetsmoath.

HERMANN C. NIEMEYER, I MISS M. A. BINGLEY, Sec.
President. I .

 

The Lynchburg Humane Society. I ‘

 

Lynchbwg. ‘ I
P. A. KRISE, President. I , s§cretary, ;? I»
WASHINGTON.

Tacoma Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Chamber of C ommerce Building, Tacoma.
C. P. CULVER, President. | H. K. MOORE, Secretary.
Seattle Humane Society. ,
Seattle.

ROGER S. GREENE, President. I MRS. LAURENCE GRONLUND,
I Secretary.

 

—_

WEST VIRGINIA.
West Virginia Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals. I

 

 

Wheeling. I
MRS. JOHN K. LIST, President. I C. J. RAWLING, Secretary. . II

 

 

WISCONSIN. II]

The Wisconsin Humane Society.
495 Milwaukee Stt'eet, Milwaukee. I
DR. GEO. D. LADD, President. I MISS AGNES WAHL, Secretary. , . I
Fox River Valley District of The Wisconsin Humane Society. I
61 M erm'tt Street, Oshkosh. .
EBENEZER JAMES, President. I DR. F. J. WILKIE, Secretary.
Sheboygan Branch of The Wisconsin Humane Society.
I Shel) oygan. It:
T. M. BLACKSTOCK, President. | WM. TALLMADGE, Secretary.

   

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

96

Manitowoc Branch of‘ The Wisconsin Humane Society.
M anitowoc. '
EMIL BAENSCH, President. | WALTER WITTMAN, Sec.

Organized Committee of The Wisconsin Humane Society of Ozaukee
County.

Port Washington.
A. A. F ARMER, President. I C. E. CHAMBERLIN, Secretary.
Janesville Humane Society.
Janesville.
W. G. PALMER, President. I MISS M. CHITTENDEN, Sec.
BRITISH NORTH AMERICA.
The Nova Scotia Society for the PreventiOn of Cruelty.
79 Granville Street, Halifax.
JAMES C. MACKINTOSH, Pres. I JOHN NAYLOR, Secretary.
Hamilton Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
, Hamilton.
ADAM BROWN, M. P., Pres. I HENRY MCLAREN, Secretary.
Kingston Humane Society.
. _ . 128 Barrie Street, Kingston.
G. J. B. PENSE, President. I J. M. COTTLE, Secretary.
The Canadian Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
189 St. James Street, Montreal.
CHARLES ALEXANDER, Pres. | GEORGE D‘URNFORD, Sec.
Ottawa Humane Society.

83 St. Peter Street, Ottawa.

MRS. GWYNNE, President. | HON. MRS. LAMBART, Sec.

Quebec Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Quebec.

JOHN T. ROSS, President. I A. ROBERTSON, Secretary.

New Brunswick Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Ferry Building, Water Street, St. John.
JOHN V. ELLIS, M.P., Pres. I S. M. WETMORE, Secretary.

 

 

 




 

 

 

  

97

Toronto Humane Society.

103 Bay Street, Toronto.

W. R. IROCK, President. I MISS DORA SPEARS, Sec.
Fredericton Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
' Fredericton.

GEORGE E. FENETY, President. | CHARLES A. SAMPSON, Sec.

Moncton Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
M oncton.

GEO. B. WILLETT, President. WILLIAMA. McDOUGALL,
Secretary.

St. John’s Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
5 t. Johns, Newfoundland.
SIR WM. V. WHITEWAY, Pres. I GEO. M. JOHNSON, Secretary.

The Winnipeg Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

_ l/Vinnipeg, Manitoba. .
REV. C. MATLESON, President. , I MISS M. LANT, Secretary.
Sherbrooke Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Sherbrooke.
WM. FARWELL, President. | FRANK THOMPSON, Sec.

———____

SOUTH AMERICA.
Sociedad Argentina Protectora de los Animales.
Calle Paraguay, 1059, Buenos Ayres, Argentine Republic.

DR. IGNACIO L. ALBARRACIN, CONRADO HERZFELD, Sec.
President.

Sociedad Protectora de los Animales.
Rosario de Santa Fé, Argentine Republic.

GUILLERMO BARNETT, Pres. | ROBERTO SOHN, Secretary.

Sociedad Protectora de los Animales.

ll/Iendoza, Argentine Republic.

MANUEL T. CABRAL, President! PASCUAL TELLEMUS, Sec.

Sociedad Protectora de los Animales.

Rio de faneiro, Brazil.

A. M. N. GONCALVES, Pres. I J. ALBINO DA CRUZ, Sec.

 

 

 

  
 
   
  
 
  
  

 

 

   
   
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
  
  

 

 

 

 




     
 
 
  
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
      
 
  
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

98

Sociedad Protectora de los Animales en Venezuela.
C aracas, Venezuela. _

SERORA ADELAIDE DE ALMEIDA E VASCONCELLOS, Presi-
dent and Secretary.

Sociedad Protectora de los Animales de Montevideo.
Montevideo, Uruguay.

JUSTUS CUBILO, President. |LUIS ALBERTO HERRERA.
[ Secretary.

WEST INDIES.
. H avana, Cuba.
D. J. G. VILLARAZA, Pres. |———————————-—————, Secretary.
San Domingo, Dominican Republic.

RAFAEL ABREU LICAIRAC, | CESAR N. PENSON, Sec.
President. I _

Trinidad Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Port of Spain, Trinidad.

SIR HUBERT H. E. JEMING— I KATHARINE H. BOURNE,

 

, President. Secretary.
BERMUDA.
Bermuda Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Bermuda.

HON. T. N. DILL, President. I CLAUDE W. MCCALLAN, Sec.

 

 




 

 

SOCIETIES OTHER THAN THOSE OF NORTH AND SOUTH AMERICA
It will be gratifying to the friends of our cause to learn from the following list of kindred societies th h
of. ammal protection has extended to almost every part of the world. Many of these societies are poweeilfutl :jvcazk
izations, whose merciful inﬂuences have been felt abroad as well as at home through the dissemination of hurfane
literature. The Royal Society at London was the ﬁrst in the world. It was organized in 1824, and now has branches
in every considerable city of England.

LOCATION.

NAME(HTSXHETY. PREﬁDENT.

SECRETARY.

 

ALGERIA.
Algiers .
Bona . . . .
Constantine. .
Oran . . . .
Philippeville

AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide .
Brisbane .
Melbourne .
Sydney. .

AUSTRIA—HUNGARY.

Agram . .
Budapest. .
Carinthia . .
Czernowitz
Graz . . .
Karlstadt .
Kaschau . .
Klagenfurt .
Krakau . .
Leitmeritz. . . .
Lemberg . .

. S.
. S.
. S.
. S
. S.
S.
S.
V
A

 

. of the Dept. of Algiers . Dr. Collardot .

O. C. zengrel. .

J. G. Riviére.

James M. Campbell I I .
Sir Geo. F. Verdon, C. B.
John de V. Lamb. .

.CI All . . .
ictorian S. Prot. A . .
nimal P. A. N. S. W .

Josip Muller. . . .
Dr. Charles Verédy
F. F. Oertl. .

Prot. A. at Agram . .
P. A. . . . . . . . .
P. =-A: o Carinthia .

A. . . . . I I ' I f I Au'g.'v6n Fladiung.
. . Julia Ivancic. . . .

for K'airnten: . Franzolos..0ert1: . . .
A....... ...Dr.JosephvonKopff..

o

 

<O<<<U<<
dammosagm.‘
mmmmmmmwmmm

Pinguad.
Miss Faure.

A. Abrahams.
Richard F. Woodcraft.
Thomas Latham.

F. Montague Rothery.

Josip Medved.

Prof. Chas. Monostori.
Lorenz Washietl.

L. L. Strzalkowski.
Rud. von Khuepach.
Josip Absatz.

Adalb Pater.

Alfred Kohlert.
Bronislaus Gustawicz.

Eduard Schmiedt.

 

Feliks de Ptawic Potawicki .

Dr. Jozef Limbach.

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

Cannes
Dunkirk
Havre
Lyons . .
Marseilles
Mentone .
Monaco
Nice .
Paﬁs

Pau
Rouen .

GERMANY.

Aachen .
Altona . .
Aschaffenburg
Augsburg

Baden-Baden

Bautzen
Bayreuth
Berlin
Bernstadt
Bonn .
Bremen
Breslau
Bromberg
Brunswick .
Cassel
Celle
Chemnitz

Coburg .

Cologne
Constance

@mmmmmmwm

1!
:1

mmmwwmmvw

S. P. A. of Cannes
Dunkirk S. P. C. A
Havre S. Prot. A. .
W. Prot. A. of Lyons .
S. P. C. A. . . .

P. C. A. of Mentone
P. A. . . .
Prot. A. . .

Prot. of A. . .
Prot. A. at Pau .
P. C. A. . . ' .

(1505

am
(/5

u:u:<<<m

O O

..A

an nd Birds

.A. of Aschaffenberg
and B.

o

madam

.at Bautzen

.P.C.A.

v—4
H
0.)

A...

DJ:

O'ﬂ

min
.A

ammammm

f l

A: of Cassel
ofCelle . . .

<mo<<<o<<

Animal and Plant P. S. of the
Duchy of Coburg . . i

Cologne S. P. A. . .'

S. P. A. of Constance

 

 

M

M. S. Marrauld .
Auguste Vesson

A. Jarnet. . . .
Louis Pugin . . .
Peletier de Noirlieu .
Dr. Gent . . .
Mrs. S. H. Adlam.
Sir James Harris . .
A. Uhrich

Dr. H. Draper Speakman
Henry Paris . .

Baron von Coels . .
Dr. Greve . . .
F. H. Deubler .
Jacobus Reimers

Maj. -.Gen D. von Parseval.

H. Wetzlich .
Preu . .
General Koring .
—— Giille.
—— Bongartz .
Ad. Brinkman .
Dr. Ulrich . . .
Nolte
B. Schwarzenberg. . .
Rev. Carl Wilhelm Peter
Dr. Schreckenberger
Dr. Schwarze ., . .

Max Brodfﬁhr‘er

Dr. Otto Hartmann
Rothenhaﬁsler .

Ch. Rocoffort.
EmilelPouleur.
G. Serrurier.
Charles Lebrun.
Mr. Charles.
Miss Mary F. Sourin.
Capt. Polli.

L. J. Jerome.
Albert Cantaud.
Joseph Sabatier.
Gaston Hamel

J. Bernarts, Jr.
—_ Trenkner.

Chr. Flemer.
Weinig.

Dr. Helbig.

Hﬁnr. Heuschmann.

Major Wagener.

. I Dr. Korten.

V. S. Sosna. ‘

—— Weiss.

Rev. S'aluberlich.

W. Koch.

Martin Betting.
Rev. K. Gartner.
Rudolph Hartmann.

Adam Briickner.

Dr. V. Wiedmann.
Franz Walter.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

GERMANY—Continued.

Crefeld .
Crimmitzschau .
Dantzig. . .
Darmstadt .
Dortmund
Dresden .
Duisburg .
Dusseldorf .
Elberfeld . .
Elbing . .
Elmshorn.

Essen. .

Flensberg.
Freiberg.
Frankfort-on- Main.
Frankfort-on-Oder.
Friederichstadt .
Gelsenkirchen. .
Glogau . .

Gorlitz . .
Gotha.. . .
Greifenberg .
Greifswald .
Giistrow . .
Halle . .
Hamburg
Hanover .
Heide.. . .
Hilchenbach
Hirschberg .
Homburg. .
Innsbruck. .

Madam

<00“
mmmgmmm

[LO-«Cl.

 

mmmuummﬁmmg

:3
.0

«<<
mmmmm

o£<o<<<<

(D

p rthalerS. P C. A.

A and B. . . . .
.A. for the town and envi-
ents of Essen

-8<CO
C.‘
O

o<<ddd<<<<aod

of Freiberg.

<d<n<1

. in Gelsenkirchen

..of Gorlitz . .
.of the Duchy of Gotha.

v—l

Baltic Ass’ n Prot. A.
..A in Giistrow . .
..A of Halle .

rg S. P. A.

A. in Hanover. .

o<

rolian S. P. A

Lower Rhine . .

i
f

 

Dr. Ferd. Busch.
Reichardt. . . .

Dr. Borntraeger . .

Dr. Eisenhuth . .

H. Werneke . .

Dr. F. Schurrig .

A. Van Meetereu.

Georg Gundelach . .

Heinrich Espenschied .
'Staberow . .

M. W. Reinhardt.

Prof. Dr. Meyer . .

A. F. J. Eiler . .

Judge Vehse . .

Dr. Carl Schenck.

—— Schumann .

W. Pollitz .

Dr. Grﬁttner .
Richter.

Major Rudolf von Séhollen.

C. Angermeyer .
Rev. Mr. Rittner.
von Wolffrath . .
Dr. Fritzsche.

Dr. Tramhaijn . . . .
Prof. C. F. Schulz .. . .
Gen. Count von Waldersee.
Dr. Lammers. . . .

H. Feldmann .

Carl Wagner, II .

Heinr. Mockel . .

Johann Tschugmell .

 

Aug. Herzog.
Rich. Rietzch.
Alexander G011.
Dr. Lennert.

Fr. Strunck.

Dr. Emil Doring.

Carl Grundmann.
Nicholaus Metzroth.
—— Staberow.

—— Engel.

u——bmh

A. rgensen.

éoWolf.
Alfred Geiger.
Rev. Mr. Bieder.
J. Sieden.

-— Oberwinter.

G. Volckman
Jahnke.

Mauermeister Hensel.
Dr. Ph. Bauer.
Emil Meyer.
Sierds.
W. Schweissfurth.
R. Schwandt.
Heinr. Schudt.
Amadeus Simath.

 

 

 




 

Itzehoe .
Jena. .
Karlsruhe
Kattowitz

Kiel . . . . .
Koenigsberg .
Landshut . . .
Langenschwalbach
Lauban .
Laugensalza
Leipzig . ‘
Liegnitz . .
Liibeck
Ludwigshafen
Luneburg .
Malchin

Mainz .

Meissen

Mulheim .

Munich

Munster .

Neisse . . . .
Neubrandenburg.
Neumiinster
Neustrelitz . .
Nérdlingen
Nuremberg
Offenbach
Offenburg
Oldenburg .
Osnabruck .
Passau .
Pforzheim

_________________————————

mmmmm‘uiuicriuivim'm'q

mmmmmuicriV‘WUSc/iuiZc/icric/iuim-USUS

3.23

dgmmgmm¢m¢¢mm

U)

 

édédddéddédo
amma

ass

ﬁd<doéé<§
mammmmmg

mammmaa

o

<o<g<d<<<<<<

'44'4

in Kiel
in Koenigsberg

in Langenschwalbach.

of Leipzig.
of Liegnitz

.P.A.

esphahan s i) VVﬂd Ehrds'

:nd Domestic Fowls and A.

A

.A.

of Neubrandenburg

e1itzS.PCA..

in Nuremberg

.of Passau .

I J
- f1

 

J. H. Raasche .

Dr. Réhrig.

F. Kaeﬂein

Rabbi Cohn

Franz Schuck .

Gen. Brausewetter

von Fuchs Bimbachs
Schutt . . . . .

Hermann Wende.
Fischer .

Dr. Rob. Klec

Dr. Otto Gﬂthling.

Dr. F. L. G. Wichmann

Sebast. Ledere

H. Reinecke

GustavJ. Hamdorf

Prof. Schlenger.

C. Ed. Bluhm .
Schmidt .

Count Houlin .

Prof. Dr. H. Landois

Pohlis. . . .
Rev. Mr. Steinfﬁhrer
E. Messtorff
B. Praefcke .
Henrich Herrrnann
Gottlieb Held . . .

Prof. Franz Dosch.

Wilh. Kahtmann
Hiipeden

Adolf Leeb
Pﬁsterer

 

 

 

M. A. Brodersen.

K. Becker.
Rudiger.

Rev. Kloppenburg.

R. O. Hasperg.
Saurer.

—— Anacker.

Hanke.
Max Rabe.
Heinrich Reinisch.
F. F. Vollers.
Charles Weingart.
Aug. Lb'fﬂer.
E. Thiel.
Dr. L. Schaum.
Cam. F. Schaufuss.
Ernst Schﬁrmann.
M. Bunhard.

Aug. Bollmann.

Rev. Hirschberger.
O. Mahn.

. Kock.

M. Reckow.
J.Ke11errnann
Francis Monniger.

Dr. Mannheimer.

F. Scheidemann.

Joseph Alteneder.
Berner.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

GERMANY—Continued.

Pirna
Ploen
Posen .
Remscheid.
Regensburg
Ribnitz
Rostock
Saalfeld .
Schleswig
Schwerin
Sensburg
Siegen .
Solingen .
Stargard .
Stettin . .
Strassburgi. E.
Straubing
Strehlen
Striegan
Stuttgart
Warstein . .
Wiesbaden .
Wﬁrzburg
Wupperthal
Zabern
Zittau
Zurich .
Zwickau
IiOLLAND.
Alkmaar . .
Amsterdam
Arnheim .
Baarn

o

m¢wmwmmmmmmmmmmmwmmm

 

criuicricxiuim'c/im mmmm

 

 

 

..A of Pirna.

Julius Lutsche
H. Foersterv.» .
. "Rudolf Schulz
.‘ Gottl. Arns .
L. E. Meyer 1 .
Ludwig Dolberg
Ferd. Matz

Dr. Mauer..

Dr. T. Steen
Rev. Mr. Florcke

Sontag-Conrector.
. ‘O. Kaven.

. . Ed. Reissmﬁller.
. . . . ‘ Paffrath.
A. Geitner.

H. Wilken.

Heinrich Teutmann.

l‘

mmdmdmmﬂmmmmmmmmmdﬁdmmamm

..a BI .
in Ribnitz
ofRostock .

<f<d<d <c'

ouf Schleswig Dr. T. Steen.

Moller.

. . . . . . . Dorn.

. . . . Dr. Hermann Bellebaum.

Reinhardt.

Rev. Mr. Schwarze.

Rev. Ed. Schneider.

-—- Kertzer.

G. Dechrier.

Rev. A. Bojanowski.
Schikor.

-—— Seybold.
Wiesmeyer.

. Count A. von Bothmer.

. Mr. Eichelsbacher.

La

u<<<ddodo<<géddéédéo

tB. and A. . . . . Rud. Hoch .
. . . . . . . . Prof. Schirlitz

. . . . . . . . . C. Hartmann.

Rev. Ed. Schneider
Steinwender

. . . . A. Egglhuber. .

. . . . Otto Ulm .

August Friedrich

Count von Zeppelin .

— Kropz . . .

Count A. von Bothmmer

Dr.Bauer1e1n . . .

in Wﬁrtemberg

"4:

of Wiesbaden

£0440

onabern Dr. Pellzer
Thiemer .
P. H. Wolff .

Captain Reich

B. M. Goettgens.
—— Peschel.
H. Fischer-Sigwart.

<5:

of Zurich

 

 

mam m

.l’.A..........
.A.ofArnheim . . . . .

(f)

Hanedves.
..W Van Dulm.

van der Veen.

...........K.A.CohenStuart.... lzrhjliziger.

E
o.
o

B. J. Polenaar .
Baron H. A. Elias .
J. P. Hooft .

4.061. 41.5304

ad

 

w

 

 




 

Brada. . .
Dordrecht. .
Haarlem .
Hague, The.
Hertogenbosch .
Hook of Holland
Maastricht
Rotterdam
Utrecht . .
INDIA.
Ahmedabad . .
Bangalore. .
Bombay. .
Calcutta.
Howrah. .
Kandy (Ceylon)
Kurrachee
Madras.

Madras.
Mandalay.

Rangoon .
Singapore. .
IRELAND.

Belfast . .
Cork . .
Dublin
Kilkenny . .
Waterford.

WeXford

ITALY.
Bologna
Florence .

mmmm<m

 

OI Dordi‘echt. .

<é<<
mama

eeling Div .

"CS
1......

0.20425

landsS P. A.

0.)

<1<it :<l <1<C
(/5205 (/50)

m Mm

The Bombay 5. P. C.
Calcutta S. P. C. A. .
Howrah S. P. C. A . . . .
S. P. A. . . . . . . . . . .
S. P. A. . . . . . . . .
MadrasS. P. C. A. . . . . .
S. for Prof. of A. from Vivisec- i
tion and Cruel Treatment .

S.
S.
S.
Th

Dublin S. P. C. A.
S. P. A .
WaterfordS. P. C. A

County Wexford S. P. C. A.

The Emiliana S. of Zob’phily
S. Prot. of A. of Florence. .

 

 

,,_,. v. vau ucr veen.

 

w__:--------------——

A. P. Sheltus . .
H. H. Th. Hoyer
A. von der Voort.
R. A. Klerck. . . .
F. X. Verheijen .
P. Dregmans .

P. H. H. Routs .
M. Mees. . . .

J. Meyers . .

Hon. .Justice Fulton . .
Hon. W. H. Grimley, C. S.
F. W. Duke, IC.S. . .

anﬁjioaﬁob.
M. K. Chette
Rt..ReV.'J. M. Strachan, MD

I f i I o a o o o o o 0

Sir Wm. Q. Ewart, Bart .
Alexander McOstrich, J.P .
Rt. Hon. Lord Ardilaun .
Hon. Dudley F. Fortesque .
Rt. Hon. Lord Maurice
i Fitzgerald . . . . . i

Angela Diana Costelli . .

Van Vooren.
S. Schotel.
A. Beernink.
L. V. van Rossern.
L. G. P. Max.
J. C. Jansen.
K. Vonk.
D. van Stolk.
Van der Lip.

—— Manibkai.

T. T. Leonard.

K. M. Shroff.

G. W. Lees-

R. A. Donnithorne.

W. Goonetilleke.

Major Merewether, R. E.
D. A. McCready.

V. Ranganatham Nayudu.

Rev. J. McGuire.
F. McCarthy.
St. Vincent Down.

W. H. Patterson.
John C. Newsom.
George Ryall,
Thomas Kough.
Robert McCurdy.

Thomas Harpur.

T. L. Buswell.
Gen. Giuseppe Mellini.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ITALY— Continued.

Genoa
Magenta .
Milan
Naples .
Naples .
Padua
Palermo
Rome .
San Remo
Turin
MALTA .
MADEIRA .
Funchal

NEW ZEALAND.
Christchurch .
Dunedin
Wellington

NORWAY.
Aalesund
Arendal
Bergen .
Christiania .
Christiansand
Drammen
Ibbestad . .
Kongsvinger .
Mosjoen .
Stavanger
Trondhjem
Voss .

PORTUGAL.
Lisbon .

 

 

S. P. A.
S. P. A.
The Lombardy Ass’n of Zoo'phily G. Bellini . . .
Naples S. P. A. . . . Princess Mele Barese
Neapolitan S. of Z. . . . . . . . Frof.Ach Costa.

S. P.- A. . . Carlo Maluta .
S. for Humane Education andP A. J. I. S. Whitaker

Roman S. against C. to A. . . . . Prince A. Doria Pamphili

S. Prot. A. of San Remo. . . . . MichaelC. Foster.

Turin S. P. A. Cesare Durando .
S. P. A.

Funchal S. P. A. J. V. Damaisio Ribeiro.
S. P. A. . .
Otago S. P. C. A.
S. P. A.

Jiustice Williams .

o

.........B.Hanssen..

. . . . . . . . . ———Holpe1dt.

. . . . . . . . . . Schmidt

A. in Christiania . . Georg Sverdrup .
. . . . . . . . . Hans Johnsen

And. Larssen .

P. A. B. stion .

—— Prydtz .

O. Hals .

E. Ronneberg .

A. Sporck

Ivar Hesselberg

mama

H

 

 

maddﬂmdm
Aﬁmmmmmmwmmm

«agaammm <

0..
US

of Lisbon. . . Julio d’Andrade .

 

 

Prof. Giulio Cantu.
Leonard T. Hawksley.
Dr. Adolfo Giordano.
Cav. Tullio Nob. Abriani.
Vittorio Spataro.

T. Serras.

O. Piccone.

Franco Riccabone.

M. Murph.
E. Quick.
T J. Freeman.

H. Regland.
E. Olsen.
Oscar Nickelsen.

Miss L. Harig.
Kund Kloster.
B. Thomassen.

[Heitor.
Ioaquim Carlos da Silva

 

M

 




 

Lisbon .
Oporto .
RUSSIA.

Abo (Finland)

Archangel
Astrakhan
Berdichev

Czernigow

Ekaterinburg .
Helsingfors (Finland)

Kalish.
Kamenetz

Kazan .
Kiev .
Kovno

Krementchoug

Lodz . . .
Mariopol .

MelitOpol

Minsk . .
Moscow
Narva
Odessa.
Omsk .

 

Dom st1c Anlmals of Portugal.

.P. me

P. C. A. . . . . . . . . .

..P C. A.

Archangel Section of The Rus-
sianS. P. A. . .i

Astrakhan Section of The Rus-
sian S. P. A. . i

Berdichev Section of .The Rus- .i
sianS. P. A. . . .

Czeringow Section of The Rus- i
sian S. P. A. .

Ekaterinburg Section of The
Russian S. P. A. . . .i

. P. C. A.

(I). m U) “WWW/Mm

Kalish Sec. of The Russian S. P. A.

j Kamenetz Section of The Rus- i

I sianS. P. A. . .

Kazan Sec. of The Russian S. P A

Kiev Sec. of The Russian S. P. A.

Kovno Sec. of The RussianS. P. A.

i Krementchoug Section of The}
RussianS. P. A. .

Lodz Section of The Russian

S. P. A.

l

sianS P. A.

Melitopol Section of The Rus-

sian S. P. A.

l
EMariopol Section of The Rus i
‘ z

 

Minsk Sec. of The'Russian S P. A.

Moscow Sec.ofThe Russian S.P.A.
Narva Sec. of The Russian S. P. A.

Odessa S. Prot. A. .
Omsk Sec. of The Russian S. P. A.

 

Conde de Samodaes .
Count de Moser . .

Alex. R. Spoof
W. W. Tuweliakin

Lieut.-Gen. Hasenkamf .

N. M. Kossowsky. .
P. Shitoff . . . . .

Baron von Taube . .

P. P. Manassein . . .
T. K. MichaleWicz

T. N. Lange . . .
O. O. Eichelmann.
Col. A. Daronoff

B. M. Orenstein . . .
T. Peiser. . . . . .
W. Stankewicz

P. Schreider .

E. Smolski . . . .
Count Keller.

F. Panowski. . . . .
W. A. Orloff. . .
F. Sendczikowsky.

 

 

 

 

Alfredo He d s

.7. Costa, Jrnrique a ilva
T. A. Piotrowsky.

John Rosenfeld.

A. Wilensky.

N. T. Lewitzky.

K. N. Dementjeff.
Wladislaw Hmielewsky.

. K. Czerwiksky.
T. Goomelewsky.

.— Lindenbaum.

I. B. Orenstein.
Tul. Pomianowsky.
D. Charadshieff.

———-— Chludzinsky.

—— Minsk.
Kalashnikoff.

 

Julius Selten.
A. T. Odolski.
—— Solovieff.

107

*‘h—~ 74 Haw». _—.-u—.

 

 

 

 

 




 

H1s Exc. Sir Walter HelyC H Knowler.

[Hutchinson

,,,,,,W.C.Jackson.... E.H.Crouch

. . . . . . Lionel Philhps . . . . Rev. W. Ed. Kelly.

His Exc. Sir Walter HelyF. J. Dickson.
[Hutchinson

Durban (Natal). S P C A
East London . . . . S. P. C. A.
Johannesburg(S. A. R.) S. P C A.
Pietermaritzburg(Natal) S P C A

SPAIN.
Barcelona

Cadiz . . . . . .
Gibraltar . .
Madrid .
Malaga .
Seville . . . . .
SWEDEN.
Alingsas . . .
Borgholm
Eksjo . '.
Falun . .
Goteborg
Grebbestad . .
Jonkopings . .
Kalmar . .
Karlshamn
Karlskrona
Karlstad .
Linkopings .
Lulea . . . . .
Lund . , . . .
Lund . . . . . .
Lyckeby . . .
Marieped ‘. . . . .
Morsil . ‘. . . . . .

 

Nettraby . . . .

Barcelono S. P. A. and Plants .

.P
Jonkopings S. P.
KalrnarS. P. A.
S. P. A.

<1:
0;
(I)

s' P. A'. 3 . . .
LinkopingsS. P A. . .

 

 

 

 

Salvador Badia y Andren

J. Garcia. de Toledo . . .

F. Kylander . .
K. J. Hellgren
F. A'ug. Pettersson

Co. E. von Odreich. . .' I

M. Rubenson . . .
A. J. Molin. . . . . . .
A. Sterner . . . . . . .
A. Hellner' . . . . .
Otto Berg . . . . . . .
G. E. Axelso n . . .
Bishop C. H. Rundgren.
Dr. A. Sterner . .
Rev. 0. A. Wester . '.
Prof. S. L. Torngvist
Fredrik Krebs

.' Rev. H. Bergstrom

A. P, Gustafsson .
Gustof Erikson . . . . .
N. J. Mellander.

 

Francisco de Maymé y Llo-
' ‘ [part.

Romualdo.

Arthur Hasluck.

 

R. de Bustamente.

Albert Michelsen.
J. Wilner.
Edward Petri.
E. Hedblom.
C. J. Gardell.
A. Alstrom.
G. A. Wallén.
H. Bohman.
Erik Leth.
J. J. Blomberg.
B. J. Forsell.
G. A. Wallen.
K. Hallman.
N. Lundahl.
Aurore Ytterstrom.
H. Stalfors.
Carl Hammarqvist.
N. Otto Lindstrom.
Ivar Espelund.

109

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SWEDEN—Continued.
Olebro .
Sko'fde .
Stockholm
Sto’ckholm
Stockholm
Strengnas
Stromstadt .
Sundsvall .
Tjorn

Umea

Upsala

Vexio

Visby . . .
Wimmerby

SWITZERLAND.

Q

Aargau
Basle
Berne
Bienne
Burgdorf
Chur .
Fribourg .
Geneva .
Langenthal
Lausanne
Lucerne
Neuchatel

Nyon

Rolle

Soleure .
St. Gall . .
Toggenburg

 

I

fm>mzw~mmmm

Orebro S. P. A. .

Skofde S. P. A. . .
Stockholm Branch S. P. A.
SwedishS. P. A. . . .
Swedish Women’s Branch.
S. P. C. A. of Strengnas.
S. P. A. . . .
S. P. A. . .

Tjorn S. P. A.

Western Territory S
Northern S. P. A.
Vexio S. P. A.
Visby S. P. A.

..S. P. A.

6Prot. A.

P.C.A.in
C.A. ..

O

mmm:m3m

C

cs
P.

chartelS Prot.A.
. A. of Vaud.
C nton of Nyon .

in St. Gall.
of Toggenburg.

.- J. Wahlﬁsk

..A in the Canton of Aargau

Chur

in the i

H.Ugg1a. . . . . ..
Count G. von Rosen .
Baron Carl C. von Bonde
Mrs. Josephine Varenius .
K. U. Nylander . .

Sven Ljunggren

Aug. Bystedt .

Carl Ljungman .

Prof. C. N. Pahl

Henrik Akerstrom

L. Montclius . .

O. Carlstedt

Fr. Ljung

A. Keller-Jaggi . .
B. Siegmund

Albt. Diirheim

Henri Thalmann
Joseph Rey. . . .
Maj. Hartm. Caviezel.
Rev. Charles de Raemy
John Cuénoud . . .
Ed. Miiller- Jaggi

A. Crétenoud.

Rob. Marbacher

Rev. Mr. Lardy .

Eugene Gamboni

—— Reymond
T. Arnold

C. Tuppinger .
J. Edelmann . .

 

 

Dr. E. Adlez.

Atel Th. Wahlstrom.
A. E. Ljundberg.
Baron Ludwig von Platen.
P. G. Isberg.

T. Nordstrom.

A. Wiklund.

H. Salvin.

Y. A. Kallstrom.

Dr. P. B. Regnér.
A. G. Florén.

Frans Berggren.
Alfr. Rosval.

J. P. Johanson.

Rud. Hunziker.

Dr. Hans Keller.
Emile Kaeser-Duby.
Albert Chopard.

Dr. H. Stickelberger.
Dr. Michel Valer.
Prof. Otto Moser.
Eugene de Bude.

F. Schneeberger.

E. Chavannes.

Dr. Bucher.

Eugene Courvoisier.

Louis Maquelin.

Schopfer.
Prof. Servert.
T. Edelmann.
H. Torgler.

 

 

 




 

 

Thun. . . . . . . . S. P. A . . . . . . . . . . . . . A. Knechtenhofer. . . . . F. Brandt.
Vevey. . . . . . . . S. P. A . . . . . . . . . . . . . G. Pfeiffer. . . . . . . . . E. Favez.
Zurlch . . . . . S. P. A . . . . . . . . . . .- . . H. Wolff a. . . . . . . . - G. Suter.

TASMANIA.
Hobart . . . . . . . Southern Tasmanian S. P. A. R. G. Hamilton . . . . . . Miss Gellibrand.
. . . . . . . . Mrs. P. O. Fysh.

Launceston. Northern Tasmanian S. P. A.

TURKEY.

Candia (Crete) . . . S. P. C. A. M. E. Von Schwartz . .

 

id
h—
—

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

AGENTS.

In addition to the uniformed force attached to Headquarters
and the Brooklyn Ofﬁce, the Society is represented throughout
the State of New York by the following Agents:

ALLEGANY COUNTY.

 

BENJAMIN, R. W ........................................ Rushford
HARRIS (M.D.), WILLIAM H. ........................ Canaseraga
MUNN, JAMES E .......................................... Oramel
WILLIAMS, HORACE H ............................... Friendship
BROOME COUNTY. .
WILSON, JOHN M ......................................... Deposit
CATTARAUGUS COUNTY.

COTTON, CHARLES ............ . .......................... Olean
HUNTLEY, JASON T ...... ' .............................. Randolph
CHAUTAUQUA COUNTY.

BRUNDAGE, _HENRY D ................................... Dunkirk
JENKS, A. FRANK ...................................... Jamestown
CHENANGO COUNTY.

BRIGGS, WILLIAM P ..................................... Smyrna
BROOKS, CHAUNCEY D ............................... Sherburne
HECOX, AUSTIN A ....................................... Smyrna
WILLIAMS (M.D.), GEORGE O ............................ Greene
COLUMBIA COUNTY.

GANTLEY, THOMAS H ................................... Hudson
STOTT, FREDERICK DU BOIS .......................... Stottville
WHITBECK, CORNELIUS .............................. Craryville

Claverack

WILSON (M.D.), THOMAS................. ............

 

 




 

 

  

n3

DELAWARE COUNTY.

HALSTEAD, GEORGE ........... . .................... I...Stamford
KAUFMAN, C. C ..................................... Margaretville
PHELPS, CHARLES C ...................................... Sidney
VAN T ASSLE, ALTON L .......................... , ...... Treadwell
. _ DUTCHESS COUNTY.

CRUSE (M.D.), THOMAS K ..................... Wappinger’s Falls
MOITI-I, THEODORE ....................... - .............. Fishkill
ESSEX COUNTY.

STANTON, JOHN W ................................ Elizabethtown

FRANKLIN COUNTY. ,
BALLARD, JAY OMalone
DONOHOE, M. C .......... A ................................. Malone
FULTON COUNTY.

ROOT, ERASTUS ............... Gloversville
ROSSELLE, J. J ........................................ Gloversville
GENESEE COUNTY.

HOUSTON, FRANKLIN .................................. Le Roy
MCNISH, JOHN ........................................... Batavia
ROGERS, JOHN L ....................................... Pembroke
GREENE COUNTY.

DECKER, ROSCOE ...... - ............................... Prattsville
HORTON, J. BRADLEY .................................... Athens
MOON, WILLIAM H ................ . ..................... Windham
REILLY, JOSEPH ......................................... Catskill
RILEY. WILLIAM T .................................... Lexington
WILLARD (M.D.), CHARLES E ........................... Catskill
HERKIMER COUNTY.

BARGY, WARNER .................... Frankfort
HALL, H. CLAY ........................................ Little Falls
SPOFFORD, JULIAN C .................................. Dolgeville

JEFFERSON COUNTY.
WARD, PETER A ...................................... Watertown

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  
 
  

 

 

 
  
  
  
 
 
 
   
  
 
  
   

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

114

LEWIS COUNTY.

DRYDEN, JOHN D. . . . . . . .' ............................ Copenhagen
LIVINGSTON COUNTY.
HILL, HARLIN H ......................................... Portage
KILLIP, W. W' ............................................. Geneseo
SHULTS, WARREN D ............................... Mount Morris
MADISON COUNTY.
BARL OW, C. F ........................................... Canastota
BRYANT, HAROLD .................................... Brookﬁeld
DE GROODT, FRED. E ............................. Pratt’s Hollow
LIPPITT, F. B ............................................ Madison
LOCKMAN, A. .......................................... Cazenovia
PERRY (M.D.), C. H: ....................................... Oneida
TEALE, B. S ................................................ Oneida
W ARREN, JOB A ........................................ De Ruyter
WEST, ADDISON J......................................Hami1ton
MONTGOMERY COUNTY.

' DE FOREST, DAVID .................................. Amsterdam
EATON, ALFRED G .................................... Amsterdam
FOX, BROW'NELL C ............. , ...................... Canajoharie
MERENESS, CHARLES W .............................. Fort Plain

. NASSAU COUNTY.

CLOWES, LEWIS H .................................... Hempstead
DUNBAR, JOHN J ........................................ Freeport
' VAN VVAGONER, WILLIAM ........................ Locust Valley
FLOYD—JONES, G. STANTON ........................ Massapequa
MANN, JR., JACOB .................. ' .................... Hicksville
MAIDMENT, FRED. H .................................... Sea Cliff
NIAGARA COUNTY.

POMEROY, D. N ......................................... Lockport
ONEIDA COUNTY.

LEWIS, W. D ................................................. Utica
ROBERTS (M.D.), DAVID HENRY .......................... Utica

ONONDAGA COUNTY.
OTIS, ISAAC C ............................................. Jordan

 
 
    
     
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
   
 
  
 
    
 
 
    
 
 
 

 

 




 

115

ORANGE COUNTY.
EGBERT, REV. GEO. D ...................................

a Cornwall
MILLS, JAMES J .................... . ................... Port Jervis
NANNY, HARRISON 'W ................................... Goshen
WILLIAMS, NATHANIEL H ........................... Ridgebury

OSWEGO COUNTY.

NEWMAN, E. G ................................ -. . . .North Hannibal
PENFIELD, W. H .......................................... Mexico
OTSEGO COUNTY.

ELY, DARWIN S .................................... Cherry Valley
HOWE, JESSE E .......................................... Oneonta
JOHNSON, HOWARD R..................................Oneonta
PLATT, CHARLES M ......................... ' ............. Morris
SITTS, JOHN H .................................. Richﬁeld Springs

PUTNAM COUNTY.
BENNETT, WALTER J ................................... Mahopac
MILLER, ELMER E ................................... Cold Spring

QUEENS COUNTY.
BUSCH, ADAM ........................................ Woodhaven
DUSING. ”WILLIAM ........................ 231 Ninth Ave., Astoria
HENTZ, ALBERT ................... 1 .................... Maspeth
MERRITT, DAVID H ...................................... Inwood
POST, JR., JAMES B ................................ Richmond Hill
SEAMAN, VALENTINE .......................... Rockaway Beach
W'AGNER, MARTIN . .................................... Woodside
WALKER, DEXTER H .................................... Jamaica

RICHMOND COUNTY.

ELLIOTT, GEORGE ................................. New Brighton
MATHESON, JAMES C ............................... Green Ridge
ST. LAWRENCE COUNTY.

WRIGHT, D. V ........................................ Ogdensburg
SARATOGA COUNTY.

KAVANAUGH, F. W .................................... Waterford
RICE, GEORGE A ................................... Mechanicsville
SELDEN, EDWARD D ........................... Saratoga Springs

WOODWORTH, H. J ................................ Mechanicsville

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

1 I7
TI'OGAZCOUNTY.
BEEBE, CLARK W ......................................... Candor ‘
STEELE, CHARLES R ............................... ‘..Apa1achian
. ' 1:; ULSTER COUNTY.
ELSWORTH, ELIJAH .................................... Kingston
OSTRANDER, DE WITT W ........................... Clintondale
WARREN COUNTY. _;§

BEVINS, STANLEY H ................................ Chestertown
BURNETT, WILLIAM H .............................. Lake George
GRIFFING, E. T, .......................................... Luzerne

HARRIS, E. S ......................................... Lake George
GRAY, MILO J ......................................... Glens Falls

SEXTON, JESSE E .......................................... Hague
WASHINGTON COUNTY.
IAKEWAY, PRED ............. Fort Miller
MCFARLAND, WILLIAM M ................................ Salem
SCOTT, GEORGE H.....................................Whitehall
WAYNE COUNTY.
AGETT, WILLIAM W ....................................... Lyons
COOPER, BYARD ................................. . ......... Clyde
RICH, JOSEPH C ........................................... Marion
SHARP, GEORGE ........................................... Lyons
WESTCHESTER COUNTY.
ANGEVINE, GILBERT J ............................... Mt. Vernon
BACON, MARSHAL I ........................ ’ ........... Tarrytown
BARR. JOHN H .......................................... Irvington
BERBERT, FREDERICK ...................... Hastings—on-Hudson
BRIGHT, MARSHAL H ................................ Tarrytown
BUSSARD, JOSEPH ........... , ....................... New Rochelle
COLLINS, HIRAM J .................................... Mt. Vernon
FARLEY, JOHN M ................................... White Plains
FLINT, F. W ........................................... Larchmont
GARNJOST, FERDINAND ................................ Yonkers
HARRISON, WALTER S ............................... Pelhamville
HART, FRED. R ......................................... Mt. Kisco
HUSS, HENRY ......................................... Mt. Vernon

JOHNSON, P. D ....................................... Mt. Vernon

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

118

KONRAD, AUGUSTUS ................................. TarrytoWn
KOPP, GEORGE M .......................... . ........... Sing Sing
MAHONEY, JOHN H ............................. North Tarrytown
PAGE, ALBERT W ...................................... Chappaqua
SCHENCK, CHAS. STEWART ............................... Rye
SLOCUM, WILLIAM E ................................... Ardsley
ZINCK, GEORGE E ...................................... Elmsford

WYOMING COUNTY.
POND, MARCUS E ........................................ Castile

 

 

 




     
 
 
  
 
   
  
   
   
     
 
   
  
 
  
    
 
  
  
   
  
     

LIFEJJJMEMBERS.

 

The payment of one hundred dollars or more, at one time,
secures a life membership.

 

 

 

 

 

A J Chambers, Dr. M. L.
Anderson, Mrs. A. A. Claﬂin, Arthur 13-
Andrews, C. A. Claﬂin, John
Andrews, Mrs. B. L. Claﬂin, MTS- H. B-
Arnold, William Clausen, Henry
Astor, Mrs. John Jacob ' Clendenin, D.D., Rev. F. M.
Astor, William Waldorf C16WS, Henry
Avery, Samuel P. Coddington, Gilbert S. J
' Convers, E. B. J
B - Corning, John J. [J
Banks, J12, Robt. Lenox Crapo, John M. J
Becker, Mrs. Jennie T. B. ‘ J l
Benson, Miss Mary D J
Beresford, Mrs. John G. Daly, H eriry F. J
Bergh, Henry -
- . Daly, Mrs. Henry F.
Billington, Mrs. Reno B. -
- DeVVitt, George G.
BllSS, Robert P. - D .
ey, Anthony J .
Bonner, Robert - . JJ
. . DICkIIlSOII, Mrs. H. A.
Bostw1ck, Mrs. Jabez A. D'lk G- - W “J
Boyd J. Gilmore 1 5’ emge ‘ , 4:1
_) - - Dodge, Mrs. Charles Cleve d m
Braidich, A. F. , D d N W
Brown Lewis B 0 ge, orman '
’ ' Draper, Mrs. Henry
Bundy, Hobart: L. ,
- ~ . Dunlap, Comell
Buidiek, B. W. Dod e George E
Busteed, Jr., Richard g ’ '
Butler, Miss M. H. E . [1
Butler, Miss M. W. . "JJ‘JJ‘J
Butts, Mrs. Laura A. Eger, Mrs. T- G- JJJJ
Eh ret, George JJJJ
C Ewen, Miss C. G. JJJJ
Campbell, A. H. Eno, Wm. B *‘J
J
M

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

F

Faber, Mrs. Angelica B.
Ford, William T.
Foster, James

Ford, James B.

G

Gebhard, William H.
Gerry, Elbridge T.
Gilbert, Frederick E.
Gray, Horace

Gudewill, George
Gunning, William J.
Gerrish, Mrs. Frank Scott

H

Hadden, John A.
Haines, John. P.,

Halsey, Mrs. Frederic Robt.

Hamilton, John L.
Hammond, Edward A.
Hard, Miss Julia Post
Hawkins, Gen. Rush C.
Hawkins, Mrs. Rush C.
Hicks, Benjamin D.
Hoe, Jr., Robert
Howard, Bronson
Howard, Mrs. Bronson
Humfreville, J. Lee
Hunt, Miss Ann

I

Iselin, Adrian

J
James, Mrs. John S.
Jesup, Morris K. ,
Johnston, J. Boorman

K

Kemp, Edward
Kingman, Mrs. Martin E.
Kohlsaat, J. W.

Kraus, Miss Emma

  

L

Lanier, Charles
Lee, Miss Alleine

.. Lewis, Mrs. Henry Dickinson

Liautard, Dr. A. F.
Lilley, C. W.
Low, Joseph T.

M

McGee, James

Marié, Peter

Marlor, Henry S.
Marsh, John Edward
Marshall, Charles H.
Meeker, Dr. C. H. , 7
Meeker, Mrs. C. H. , . »
Merritt, Mrs. George .-
Milbank, Joseph
Milbank, Mrs. Joseph
Moffat, Miss Myra
Morss, Mrs. Mary T.
Mott, Jordan L.
Moulton, Miss Eliza
Moulton, Mrs. F. A.
Murray, John B.
Moffat, Miss Alice E.

O
O’Brien, William '
Olcott, F. P.
Oothout, William
Osborn, William H.

- Olcott, Miss Edith

-P
Parrish, James C.
Post, Edwin A.
Pyne, Jr., Moses Taylor
Pyne, Mrs. Percy R. .

R

Reusens, G.
Rhines, Mrs. Isaac Olcott

 

 

 




  

Ripley, Harry Dillon
Ripley, Sidney Dillon
Ruppert, Jacob

n Russell, Jr., Archibald Doug.

Russell, Hon. Horace

S

Scharmann, H. B. ,
Schermerhorn, William C.
Shaw, Mrs. Francis G.
Sherman, George
Sherman, William Watts
Smith, Dr. Edward A..
Smith, Miss Josephine C.
Squier, E. George
Standish, Mrs. Myles
Stevens, Frederick W.
Sticht, Mrs. Augusta
Stokes, Miss C. P.

Stokes, Jr., James

Straus, Nathan A
Stuyvesant, Mrs. J. Reade
Suckley, Robert B.
Sulzer, Hon. William
Swezey, Mary E.
Schermerhorn, Mrs. John W.

T

Thompson, Fred. F-
Tiffany, Charles L.

 

 

 

 

 

IZI

   
   
   
  
 
  
   
 
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
    
 
 

Townsend, Mrs. Howard ‘
Trevor, Henry G. J
Tuck, Edward T‘
Tuck, Mrs. Edw’d

V
Valentine, Mitchel ‘
Vanderbilt, F. W. ’
Vanderbilt, Mrs. F. W.
Van Kirk, Miss Lila
Van Rensselaer, Kiliaen

W

Wagstaff, Hon. Alfred
VVagstaff, Mrs. Alfred I
Watson, George H. Ml
Webb, William H. i
Vv’endel, Miss Ella l

l

 

 

 

Weston, Mrs. R. W.
Wheeler, Miss Laura

White, Mrs. C. E.

Winans, Miss M. Antoinette
Winslow, Edward
Winthrop, Benjamin R
Wolff, Agnes H.
Wood, Charles B. '
Wyckoff, Mrs. Cora Dillon jlj‘,

ill I
Y ‘
Yuengling, Jr., David G.

 

 

 

 

llllll
llllll
eeee

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

MEMBERS.

 

The annual membership subscription is ﬁve dollars.

A

Abbott, Warren G.
Abendroth, W. P.
Abraham, Abraham
Ackerman, E. W.
Ahlmann, Otto
Alexander, J. H.
Alexander, Torn
Allen, Mrs. John K.
Allen, Miss L. D.
Allen, Miss Rose
Amend, C. A. L.
Appel, Jr., Henry J.
Appelbaum, Henry
Appleton, W. H.
Archbold, John D.
Aron,A.

Austin, Mrs. E. B.
Avery, Mrs. S. P.
Avila, Mrs. Samuel A.
Ayer, Frederick E.

B
Bachmann, Frederick

Backus, Mrs. Foster L.

Bacon, Marshal L.
Baeszler, Charles
Bailey, Miss Mary L.
Baird, A. D.

Baldwin, H. M.

 

Baldwin, Mrs. T. Burnett
Ballay, Eugene C.
Ballin, Oscar E.

Banyer, Goldsboro
Bardes, John

Barker, Miss Isabel R.
Barnes, Davis

Barnes, Miss Mildred
Barnes, Reon

Barrow, Mrs. J. Thomas
Barry, Wm. J.

Barth, Gustav A.

Barth, Joseph J.
Battermann, H.

Bayne, S. G.

Beach, Mrs. Emily S.
Beard, Mrs. J. Carter.
Bechtels, George
Beemer, James G.
Beinert, Charles
Belford, William J.
Bell, Jr., Edward T.
3e111nger, J. P. '
Bender, George
Benedicks, Leonard
Benedict, Miss Laura
Benedict, Miss Louise
Benedict, Samuel Ward
Benjamin, A. Bedell
Benjamin, Mrs. A. Bedell

O

 




Bennet, Frank
Benscher, Fred.
Beramji, R.
Berlinghoff, Miss A.
Bernheimer, Simon E.
Biddle, John

Bigelow, Mrs. Poultney
Bininger, Wm. G.
Bishop, Miss M. C.
Bishop, Mrs. Heber R.
Blake, Henry

Blake, Peter

Bliss, E. W.

Bliss, Mrs. E. W
Bliss, Miss Ida E.
Bliss, Justin A.

Bliss, Mrs. Justin A.
Bliss, Miss Sue D.
Bliss, Mrs. W. H.

Bloomingdale, Charles A.

Bodine, B. J.

Bolton, Mrs. Charlotte L.
Bowdoin, Miss Edith G.
Bowne, Mrs. Philip H.
Bracken, Peter B.
Brackett, Edgar T.
Brady, Patrick

Braun, Ludwig
Breese, Miss Eloise L.
Brinkerhoff, Mrs. E. R.
Bristol, Miss Fanny L.
)rookes. Mrs. E. C.
Brooks, Miss Bertha G.
Brooks, William L.
Brostrom, Miss Abbie
Brown, Benjamin
Brown, Edward W.
Brown, Rob’t

Brown, Walston H.

Brown, Mrs. Walston H.

Brownson, Mrs. W. H.
Bruns, C. A.
Bryan, Charles S.

 

Bull, W. L.

Bull, Mrs. W. L.

Bull, Jr., W. L.

Bull, Mrs. William T.
Bullinger, Mrs. E. T.
Burnett, Mrs. Dr. W. J.
Burnett, S. O.
Burroughs, William V.
Buswell, Mrs. F. C.
Byrnes, Rev. James P.

C

Cadwell, Mrs. S. U.
Cady, Mrs. J.'C.
Cahill, Michael
Caldwell, R. J.
Calef, Mrs. John H.
Camp-bell, Alexander
Carley, L. B. -
Canty, Daniel
Carpenter, Miss Agnes
Carpenter, Mrs. Miles B.
Carr, Miss Mary J.
Carrington, Miss E. B.
Carscallen, Mrs. J. D.
Cary, Miss Ellen G.
Cary. Mrs. W. F.
Cassidy, Rev. Charles A.
Cassidy, John
Catlin, Miss Cora V. R.
Catlin, Miss Edith R.
Catlin, Miss K. L. R.
Cauldwell, Mrs. William
Cestero. J. N. .
Cestero. Mrs. J. N.
Chace, Miss Helen F.
Chamberlain, Miss F. A.
Chapman, Isaac E.
Chisolm. Benjamin 0.
Choate. Joseph H.
Choate. Mrs. Joseph H.
Clark, Edward J.
Cleveland, Mrs. J. Wray

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

    

Donovan, Dennis

Donovan, Joseph

Dowd, Timothy

Dowst, Arthur A.

Doyle, Edward P.

Drake, Miss Mary Hopeton
Drake, Mrs. Charles .
Duer, Miss Alice M.

Duer, Miss Caroline K.
Duer, James G. K.

Duer, Mrs. James G. K.
Duggin, Mrs. Charles
Dunham, Mrs. Minnie
Dunlop, John

Du Vivier, E. A.

Dyckman, Jack

E
Eaton, Dorman B.
Eaton, Mrs. D. Cady
Eckstein, Samuel
Edwards, J. Pierrepont
Elkins, Miss Fannie
Elkins, Miss Ida
Elliott, Walter T.
Ellis, Mrs. A. V. H.
Emory, Mrs. John Comegys
Engeman, George H.
Engeman, William A.
Engle, Robt. S.
Englis, Charles M.
Ensign, Herman L.
Eppelsheimer, Henry
Eppig, Joseph
Erhardt, Hon. Joel B.

F
Fahnestock, William
Fairbanks, Mrs. L.
Fargo, James C.
Farnham, George A.
Feist, Karl
Felt, Mrs. Edwin M.

 

125

Finck, August

Fisk, Mrs. Harvey E.
Fitch, M.D., Neil O.
Fitzgerald, Gen. Louis
Flegenheimer, Henry
Fleig, A. B.

Flint, Miss Annie
Flint, Miss Helena
Flint, Mrs. Austin
Flint, Jr., Mrs. Austin "
Flint, Mrs. Charles "R.
Foehrenbach, Jr., F.
Foley, John

Foller, Nicholas
Fontenilliat, Mrs. Julia F. de
Forbes, Miss Agnes
Ford, Malcolm W.
Forney, Matthias N.
Fox, Mrs. Austen G.
Franchot, Mrs. Hélene
Frankenberg, D.
Franklin, Dr. ‘E. D.
Franks, C. Douglas
Franzreb, John
Freedman, Andrew
Freeman, Prof. James J.
Freeman, Mrs. L.
Freeman, W. D.

Freud, Miss Hannah
Friedmann, H. G.
Fries, Frederick
Friihauf, Miss Victoria
Fuller, M.D., William H.
Furman, John T.

G
Gage, William B.
Gallaher, Mrs. Julia A.
Gallatin, Frederic
Gatter, Miss Elizabeth Almy'
Gatter, Miss Georgia '
Gaus, John L.

Gebh ard, Mrs. Frederic

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Gellatly, Mrs. John
Georgen, W. T.
Geossell, Charles
Gerrans, H.

Gescheidt, Anthony L.
Gibb, John

Gibbert, Sr., Mrs. E. E.
Gibney, Dr. Virgil P.
Glatz, Mrs. Pauline
Glenn, Miss Janie
Goddard, Miss Annie C.
Goddard, Mrs. J. Warren
Godfrey, Miss Lily Alys
Godkin, Lawrence
Godwin, Parke

Goin, Mrs. James D.
Goodrich, George Selden
Goodrich, 'Mrs. Thomas F.
Goodridge, Mrs. Frederic
Gould, Mrs. George J.
Grant, Mrs. Ulysses S.
Grant, Rev. Percy S.
Grauer, George

Greer, D.D., Rev. David H.

Grismer, Mrs. Joseph R.
Groh, John

Gruner, Mrs. Siegfried
Guggenheimer, Randolph
Guggenheimer, Mrs. R.
Guiterman, Rudolph
Gunther, Henry

H
Haddock, J. W.
Hadkins, Frank L.
Haffen, John '
Haines, G. Sabine
Halberstadt, S. E.
Hale, Mrs. Thomas
Hamilton, Henry
Hard, Anson W.
Hard, Miss Laura W.
Harriman, Mrs. J. Borden

126

Harris, Isaac

Harris, Mrs. Laura C.
Harrison, Mrs. Mary L.
Harrison, W. S.

Hart, Charles

Hart, Charles H.

Hart, Patrick

Hartman, P. H.

Harvey, George E.
Hastings, Chas. E.
Hastings, Mrs. A. F.
Hastings, Mrs. W. C.
Hathorn, Frank H.
Havemeyer, J. Craig
Haven, George G.
Haviland, S. W.

Hazard, Mrs. E. C.
Healey, John J.

H'echt, Aaron
Heckmann, Mrs. Barbette
Hpeckscher, John G.
Hein,_ Eggert

Heller, C.

Heller, Mrs. E. L.
Henderson, Mrs. James A.
Hendricks, Charles
Hendricks, Mrs. Charles
Hentschel, Charles
Hentz, Henry

Herrick, M.D., Everett
Herrmann, Mrs. Adelaide
Hewitt, Miss Sarah Cooper
Heyland, E. A.
Heyman, Charles
Higginson, Miss Dorothy L.
Hill, James K.

Hill, Warren E.

Hinton. Miss S. MCV.
Hitchcock, Miss F. A.
Hitchcock, Welcome G.
Hitchcock. Mrs. Welcome G.
Hoefer, Charles R.
Hoegg, William

 

 




 

Hoffmann, Jacob
Hogan, Charles W.
Hogan, Timothy

Hohns, Herman
Holbrook, Edward
Holbrook, Miss Lilian
Holbrook, Mrs. Edward
Holbrook, Mrs. Harry

Holcombe, Mrs. Wm. Fred.

Hollins, Jack Knapp
Hollins, Mrs. H. B.
Holt, Miss Winifred
Holz, Bernard
Hoover, Miss Fanny
Hopi, Max G.
Hopkins, H. C.

Hopkinson, Miss Jennie M.

Horrmann, August
Horrmann, Charles
Horrmann, William
Horton, James M.
Houghton. Arthur A.
Hower, Frederick
Huber, Otto

Hudson, Mrs. Alice P.
Humason, Mrs. V. P.
Huntington, Archer M.
Huntington, Mrs. C. P.
Hupfel, J.'C. G. 4
Hyatt, Mrs. Margaret A.

I
lbert, Frank
lngersoll, Miss Maud
Ingersoll, Robert G.
lngersoll, Mrs. Robert G.
Isaacs, David
Isaacs, Gabriel
Iselin, C. Oliver
Iselin, Miss G.

Jackson, B. A.

127

Jackson, F. W.

Jahn, Wm.

Jarves, Miss Florence
Jeffery, Dr. Geo. C.
Jennewein, Valentine
Jerome, Mrs. Henry A.
.JeX, Miss Emily D.
JeX, Mrs. Josiah
Johnson, F. Coit

/ Johnson, Joseph

Johnson, Dr. S. K.

Johnston, John Humphreys

Johnston, Mrs. Mary

Jones, Floyd—, Mrs. Geo.
Stanton

Jones, Frank

Jones, Mrs. Cadwalader

Jones, Miss Julia I.

Juiler, Miss Constantine H. V.

Jurgens, W. B. A.

Jurvelius, Madame Thyra

K
Kakels, Dr. M. S.

Kane, S. Nicholson
Kaufman, C. C.

Keck, Albert

Keene, Mrs. Foxhall P.
Keeney, E. W.
Keltermeyer, John
Kendall, Miss Georgiana
Kendall, Miss S. R.
Kimbel, Richard M.
King, Dr. Morris Lee
King, Marc J.

King, Mrs.,Percy R.
Kingan, R. W. James
Kirk, Mrs. Harford B.
Knapp, Dr. G. Lee
Knapp, John M.
Knapp, L.

Knapp, Miss M. M.
Knight, Mrs. Arthur

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Knopf, A. E.
Knox, John Mason
Koegler, William
Kohlmann, John D.
Koke, Dr. W. A.
Kortright, Gouverneur
Kraus, Benjamin
Kreis, Philip

L

Lambert, Fred. A.

La Montagne, Mrs. E. C.
Lampe, Miss Elise H.
Langdon, Woodbury G.
Lapham, Mrs. John J.
Larremore, Mrs. Wilbur
La Tourrette, Miss J. E.
Lawrence, Cyrus J.

Lawrence, Miss Hannah N.

Lawrence, Mrs. S.
Leahy, David T. .
Leao, Francisco Garcia P.
Learned, Billings P.
Learned, Mrs. Billings P.
Lee, Prof. B. F.

Leeds, Mrs. John G.
Leggett, Francis H.
Lembke, Jr., Charles
Leslie, Miss Gertrude '
Levings, James H.
Levy, Aaron

Lewis, Mrs. Jennie
Leyes, Peter

'Liebmann, Charles
Lilienthal, Mrs. S. P.
Lincoln, Dr. H. Warren
Lindner, Jr., Charles
Lipsius, Mrs. Claus
Livingston, Miss Ann L.
Lockman, Jacob K.
Lockman, John T.
Loewi, Edgar

Loewi, Mrs. Edgar

 

   
 
  

128

Loewi, Valentine
Loomis, Alfred L.

Lorette, Miss Frances M. V.
Lovedale, Charles

Low, Miss Nathalie F.

Low, Hon. Seth

Low, Mrs.'Seth

Lowell, Miss C. Russell
Ludlow, Banyer

Ludlow, Mrs. James Ogden
Lund, John

Lusk, Miss Anna H.

Lusk, Miss Mary E.

Lyman, E. H. R.

Lynch, Mrs. Jasper

M

Macdonald, A. J.
Mackay, George D.
Mackenzie, John
.Mackenzie, Miss L.
Mackenzie, Miss M.
Mackenzie, William
Macy, Mrs. V. Everit
Maitland, T. A.
Maitland, Mrs. Helen V. V.
Major, F. H.
Manigault, Mrs. Anne M.
Mann, Francis A.
Manson, Jr., Mrs. T. L.
Marcks, L. H.
Marks, Mrs. Nannette
* Marsh, David
Marsh, Nathaniel
Marshall, E. C.
Marshall, Miss C. E.
Marshall, Mrs. E. C.
Martin, C. C.
Marvin, James ,M.
Mason, James Kent
Mattmann, Mrs. C.
Maurer, Mrs. Henry A.

Maverick, Mrs. Brewster

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

  

Maxwell, Henry W.
Maxwell, Miss Ida F.
May, Moses

Mayer, David
McBurney, Mrs. S. A.
McEwen, Mrs. D. C.
McGahie, John

McGirr, Wm. J.

McKee, D.V.S., James
McKee, Mrs. Mary Harrison
McKendrick, Miss Claire F.
McKinstry, Mrs. L. L.
McLaren, Alfred S.
McLean, George H.
McLean, John
McLean, Miss Mary S.
McLean, Mrs. Thomas
McManus, J. F.
McQuade, John
McQuade, P. J.

Meht, Mrs. Lena I.
Mergle, Anton

Mertz, Miss M.
'Meserole, A. V.
Metzger, Mrs. Abram
Meyer, Henry

Meyer. Mrs. L. H.
Michelbacher, S.
Miller, Mrs. C. A.
Mills. Ogden

Minck, Henry

Minturn, Miss Eliza T.
Mintz, Dr. Frederick
Mitchell, John A.
Moller, Mrs. Anna M. B.
Moller, Miss S. Adelina
Moller, Mrs. Peter
Moller, Peter

Monahan, Thomas
Monnot, J. B.

Monroe, Augustin
Monroe, Mrs. Elbert B.
Montgomery, George L.

129

 

Morgan, Miss Louisa P.
Morris, Lewis G.
Morrison, Mrs. Geo. Austin
Morrison, Henry P.
Morton, Hon. Levi P.
Moss, Frank

Muller, Edward M.
Mulligan, James
Munch, William
Mustoe, Dr. Frederick
Myers, George L.
Myers, Miss Lillie

N

N amm, Adolph I.
Neidlinger, Adam
Nelson, Mrs. Walter H.
Newell, Miss Lucy P.
Newhall, J. B.

Newman, D.V.S., Philip H.
Newton, Mrs. R. H.
Nichols, Erickson N.
Nielsen, N. P.

Noble, Mrs. Elizabeth F.
Noble, Mrs. G. Clifford
Noble, Rob’t H.

Nobs, Mrs. M. Madelaine
Norvell, Duncan R.
Nostrand, Frank

O

Obermeyer, Theodore

Ochs, Ernest

Ockershausen, Henry A.
Ogden, W. B.

Olcott, George M.

Oothout, Mrs. William

Orr, John C.

O’Shaughnessy, Nelson J. W.
Otis, Mrs. N. P.

Owen, Mrs. Thomas J.

 

  
  
  
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

    

 

 

 

 

 

P

Page, Edward D.
Palmer, Dr. Ernest
Palmer, Francis F.
Palmer, George Q.
Palmer, Lowell M.
Palmer, N. F.

Palmer, Mrs. N. F.
Parker, Benedict
Parker, Miss Mary D.
~Parsons, Mrs. Edwin
Parsons, W. H.
Pearsall, Mrs. F. E. ‘
Peilert, Mrs. L.

Pell, J. H.

Pell, Mrs. J. H.
Perkins, Miss Edith Howell
Perry, Mrs. C. M.
Perry, Dr. John L.
Phelps, Mrs. Anson G.
Phillips, William

Pirie, S. C.

Pitcher, L. A.

Plate, Carsten
Pohalski, H. Percy
Pomeroy, Miss F. Josephine
Pomroy, Mrs. H. K.
Pool, John H.

Potter, Mrs. Geo. M.
Potter, Wm.

Prescott, Mrs. Annie E.
Price, W. W.

Proctor, lVIiss H. F.
Prout, Dr. J. S.

Prout, Mrs. J. S.
Purdy, J. H.

Pyne, Mrs. Moses Taylor

Q
Quimby, Frank P.
Quin,lLouis
Quinlan, Thos. F.
Quinlan, William
Quintard, George W.

1'30

   

  

R

Rader, Gustavus W.
Rae Baer, Miss R.
Raisch, Julius

Rapallo, Mrs. Edward S.
Rapelye, Mrs. C.
Raymond, Charles H.
Raynor, Miss Florence
Redding, Mrs. Josephine
Remsen, Miss Margaret S.
Renault, Louis
Renwick, William W.
Reynolds, C. H.

Rhin ehardt, Clark D.
Rhinelander, Miss S.
Rhoades, John Harsen
Riker, Mrs. D. S.
Rinschler, Frank
Robert, C. R.

Roberts, Miss Mary M.
Robinson, Henry
Robinson, Mrs. Henry
Rodewald, F. L.
Rodrigue, John J.

Rolfe, Mrs. N. D.
Roome, W. Harris
Ronalds, Geo. L.
Rosenbaum, Mrs. Helen;
Rosenbaum, Mrs. Mary
Rosenthal, Robert J.
Rosenwald, Henry
RosenWald, Isaac
Rosenwald, Sigmund
Ross, William B.

Roth, George

Rouss, C. Broadway
Rowland, Jr., Thomas Fitch
Rowland, Thomas Fitch
Russell. Mrs. James Towns’d
Ryer, George S.

S

Sanford, Hon. Horatio S.
Schaefer, Charles

 
 
 

 




 

  

Schieffelin, William Jay
Schippell, August
Schloss, Alexander P.

. Schmadeke, John F.
Schmidt, Miss Alice M.
Schmidt, Mrs. John A.
Schmielan, C. F.
Schnurmacher, J.
Scholer, Dr. Gustav
Schrader, George
Schrader, Miss Emma
Schultz, Carl H.
Schurz, Miss Marianne
Schwenke, Henry
Scott, Mrs. Winﬁeld
Scranton, Miss Amelia E.
Seabury, GeorgeJ

Seccomb, Miss Bertha H.

Seccomb, Mrs. E. A.
Sedgwick, Robert
Selvage, Mrs. Edwin
Sellew, Mrs. E. E.
Seybel, D. E.
Shearman, Thomas G.
Sheldon, Mrs. Henry K.
Sheldon, James
Sheldon, Mrs. James
Shepard, Dr. A. W.
Sheridan, Thomas W.
Shine, Rev. E. A.
Shivler, Charles S.
Shotwell, H. T.
Shults, John H.
Siegel, John R.
Siegman, Alfred
Siegman, Edward
Siegman, Richard
Silver, Mrs. Charles A.
Silvie, Isaac A.
Simon, George A.

Skene, Dr. Alexander J. C
Skene, Mrs. Alexander J. C

Small, Miss Blanche D.

Smart, Mrs. E. R.
Smith, A. W.
Smith, Crawford C.
Smith, Henry A.

Smith, Master Jewell Kellogg

Smith, William Alexander
Smith, Mrs. M. Adele
Smith, Mrs. A. W.

Smith, Mrs. Alexander
Smith, Mrs. Andrew W.
Smith, Mrs. Wm. Alex.
Snow, E. G.

Snyder, Mrs. Josephine
Solomon, Robert G.
Spencer, A. H.

Spencer, F. G.

Spencer, Jr., Mrs. Lorillard
Speyer, Mrs. James
Spring, Miss Anna R.
Spr,uck Henry

Squire, Newton R.
Standish, Myles

_ Stanton, Edmund C.

Stanton, Mrs. John
Stark, William
Starr, Mrs. Daniel E.
Stedman, Miss Gertrude
Stein, A. M. '
Stein, Conrad
Stephens, John H.
Stern, Benjamin -
Sterne, Miss Alice
Steurer, Miss Anna
Stewart, Hugh
Stewart, Thomas J.

Stewart, William Rhinelander

Stickney, Mrs. Joseph
Still, John A.
Stillman, Thomas E.
Stokes, Anson Phelps
Stone, Edwin
Story,J. T.

Strauss, Mrs. Jacob

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

  

Ward, L. B.

Ward, MissJennie E.
Ward, Mrs. E. A. B.

W arde, J. S.

Waterbury, Miss Elsie
Waters, V.S., Dr. E.
Weaver, Miss Lucy A.
Webb, H. Walter
Weber, Joseph
Wedemeyer, H. William
Weekes, Arthur D.
Weil, Charles M.

Wells, Miss Julia Chester
Welz, John

Wendell, Mrs. Gordon
Werner, Mrs. Henry
Westcott, Miss Thalia
Wetherbee, Miss Lilah
Whalen, Richard
Wharton, Edward R.
Whitcomb, Miss Georgia
White, Horace

White, Miss May W.
White, Mrs. Jno. J.
White, S. V.

Whiting, Miss Matilda M.
Wicke, William
Wickett, S. G.
Wickham, William Hull
Wilhelm, Mrs. Emily
Wilkins, Morris
Wilcox, William G.
Williams, Mrs. John O.
\Nilliams, Paul F.
Willson, Charles Hill
Wilson, D. J.

Wilson, Miss Elizabeth B.

Wilson, Gen. James Grant

 

I33

Wilson, John M.
Winans, Miss Isabel T. '
Winans, Miss S. S.
Wing, L. Stuart

Wing, Mrs. L. Stuart
VVinship, L. A.

Winter, George
Winthrop, Mrs. Grenville
Wissel, Andrew ._
Witte, Charles G.
Wood, George A. W.
Wood, Mrs. H. G. .
Wood, Mrs. Henry Duncan
Wood, Mrs. James
Wood, P. Erskine
Woolley, Edgar W. .
Woolverton, William H.
Wooster, Mrs. G. H.
Worden, William W.
Work, James Henry
Work, Mrs. James Henry
W otherspoon, Henry H. '
Wright, Miss Harriet
.VV'yckoff, Peter

Wygant, W. E.

Wyman, Miss Esther

Y

Yeisley, Rev. George C. L
Yocum, Rev. Thomas S.

Z

Zebley, Mrs. John F.
Zeltner, Henry
Zimmerman, E. J.
Zittel, Frederick
Zollikoffer, Mrs. O. F.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

®bituam 1Recorb

 

The Society mourns the loss of nineteen mem-
bers of Whose death it has been notiﬁed during the

year 1898, Viz.:

BANKS, GEN’L ROBT. LENOX
HACKETT, JEREMIAH
ISELIN, MRS. ADRIAN
KNOWLTON, E. F.

MACLAY, ROBERT
OAKFORD, MISS ELLEN
OLIVER,'MRS. DILLON
ROOSEVELT, J. H.
RAPPENECKER, WM. F.
REYNOLDS, MRS. jENNIE
SCHAEFER, FRED’K.
SUCKLEY, RUTSON

TAYLOR, FRED’K.
THOMPSON, MISS ALICE
TOUCEY, JOHN M.

VAN TASSEL. EMERY M.
WILLIAMS, R. C.
WHITEWRIGHT. WM.
WOOSTER, G. H.

 

 




 

 

DONATIONS RECEIVED DURING

YEAR 1898.

A .
Acker, Merrall & Condit.. $10
Amend, Bernard G ....... 20
Amory, Mrs. John ....... 3
“A Friend ” ............. IO
“A Friend, ‘through W.

T. G.” ................. 967
“ A Friend to the Society” 20
Anderson, Mrs. A. A.... 100

8888

00
00

00
Anonymous ............. 20 00
Anonymous ............ _. I 00
Anonymous “ self—imposed
, ﬁne ” .................. 2 00
Archbold, John D ........ 25 00
Arnold & Constable ..... 5 00
Auchincloss, Mrs. H. D... IO 00

B

Bachmann, Fred .......... IO 00
Bacon & Co ............. IO 00
Ballin, Oscar E .......... IO 00
Bantel, Matthaus ......... 3 00
Barker, Miss Isabel R. 3 00
Barnes, Richard H' ....... 5 00
Bechtel, Mrs ............. 5 00
Beddall, Mrs. E. H ..... I. 3 00
Behr, Herman & Co ...... 3 00
Beinert, Chas ............. 10 00
Benedict, Miss Louise... IO 00
Berlon, H. C ............ 5 oo
Beresford, Mrs. J. G ...... 75 00
Berthele, J. G ............ I 00
Bird, Jos ................. 3 00
Bishop, Mrs. Heber R.... 20 00
Blood, Mrs. S. S ........ IO 00
Bloodgood, John H ...... 10 00
Blume, Mrs. A ........... 25

 

Bond, Frank S ...........

, $5 00
Bossert, Louis .. ..... ‘ ..... 5 00
Bostwick, Mrs. Jabez.A.. 100 00
Bowdoin, George S ...... 50 00
Braidich, A. F ........... 100 00
Brett, Mrs ....... , ........ 2 00
Brooklyn Humane Assn.. 38 65
Brown, Addison ......... IO 00
Brown, Benjamin ........ 5 00
Brown, Miss E. W. . . . . 5 00
Bruns, C. A .............. 5 oo
Bunce, John .............. 5 00
Butts, Mrs. Laura A ..... 5 00
Byrnes, E. G ............. 3 00
C
Carleton, Mrs. G. W... 5 00
Carll, Miss C. J .......... 5 00
Carter, Miss A. M ....... 2 00
Cary, Ellen G ........... I5 00
“ Cash ” ................. 25
“ Cash,” H. L. M ........ 5o 00
Cash, “V. D.” .......... 5 00
Castleton Hotel ........ 5 00
Castree, Miss Louise ..... IO 00
Cathcart, Miss Jennie R. . 5 00
C. .B. “for a worthy _
cause ” ................ I oo
Chamberlain, Mrs. M. H. 2 00
Chisholm, Mrs. Wm. E... 50 00
Chrome Steel Works. 5 00
Chrystie, W. F ........... 20 00
Clark, Mrs. C. F ......... IO 00
Cole, “in memory of
Hatty Eger Cole” ..... 5 00
Collins, Ellen, “J. B. C.”. 30 00

Congress Brewing Co. . . .

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

Constant, James L ...... $3 00
.Cook, Chas. T ........... 25 00
Cooper, S ................ 5 oo
Cornell, J. B. & J. M... 500 00
Cornell, Mrs. W. T ....... 3 oo
Coster, C. H. .......... 20 00
Cross Austin Ireland Lum-
ber Co ................. 5 00
Cross, Mrs. Frances E. . . . 5 00
“C. S.” .................. 15 oo
Curtenius, Miss H. L... 3 oo
_ D
Dahn, J. A. & Son ...... 5 oo
‘Dalley, Henry, Jr ........ 5 00
Daly, Henry F .......... 25 00
Daly, Mrs. Henry F ..... 25 oo
Delaney, Mrs. Mary F... 5 00
De Morgan, Mrs ......... I 00
Destin, Miss L. Y ........ 2 00

Dickerman, Mrs. W. B.. 3 00
Dillon, John F., “ In mem-
ory of Mrs. Dillon Oli-

ver ” .................. IO 00
Dodge, Sr., Mrs. Wm. E. 5 oo
Drake, John I ........... 3 oo
Dwight, Stanley .......... , 3 oo
Dwight, Mrs. Timothy... 3 00

E
Eastern Brewing Co ..... 5 00
Eastman Joseph ........ 25 oo
Eaton, Mrs. D. Cady.. . IO 00
Eckert, Thos. T ......... 50 oo
Eddy, Mrs. W. D ......... 3 oo
Eger, Mrs. T. G .......... 2 00

Eger, Mrs. T. G., “In
memory of Mrs. H. E.

Cole ” . ................ 5 oo
Ely, Ambrose K ......... IO 00
’Embury, Miss Kate ...... 5 oo
Embury, Miss Kate ...... 5 oo
Emmet, Mrs. Robert T. 3 oo
Emmett, Mrs. W. Y ..... 3 oo
Eppig, Joseph ............ 5 00

F
Farmers’ Feed Co ........ 5 oo
Feist, Mr ................ 5 oo
Felt, Mrs. E. M ......... 20 oo
Ferguson, George ....... 3 oo
Fisk, Mrs.. S. A .......... 5 00

 

I36

Flint, Mrs. C. R .......... $20
Flint, F. W .......... 3
Flint, Miss Helena ....... 3
Fonda, S. V. R ........... 2
Foote, Dr. E. B ......... 3
Foote, Mrs. H. T ......... 3
Ford, James B ........... 100
Frank, W. H., Brewing

Co.. . 5
Franzreb J .............. 5
Frese, Chas, Estate of.. 5
“Friend of the Society,

A ” ................... Io

G
Gates, Miss Charlotte G. 2
, “.G C.” .................. I
Gibert, Mrs. Margaret E.. 5
Gilford, Samuel T ........ IO
Glatz, Mrs. Pauline ....... 5
Goodridge, Mrs. Frederic. 5
Graef, Emily L. C ....... 25
Griswold, Mrs. Geo ...... 5
Gudewill, George ....... IOO
Gwennell & Hooper ...... 4
H

Hallett, C. W ............ 5
Halstead, Mrs. Jacob ..... 3
Ham. Abbie L ........... I
Hambert, F A .......... 5
Hane, Jaines M .......... 5
Hann, Mrs. Geo. V ...... I
Hardy, James ............ 5

Hardy, Voorhees & Co.. 20

Harkness, Mrs. S. V.... 25
Harris, Laura C .......... 5
Harrison, Mrs. Mary L.. 45
Haven, John ............ 3
“ H. C.” ................. 2

Hearn & Son, Jas. H.... 100
Heissenbuttel & Nearing. 5
Herckenrath, Walter T. .. 3
Hess, Miss Elsie, “In
memory of Mrs. Henry

Hess ” ................ 3
Hess, Adeline M ......... 5
Hoecker, J. B ............ IO
Hogan, Timothy ....... 5
Hopkins, Eustis L ....... 3

Hornthal, Mrs. Sarah. . . . 5
Howland, Mrs. H. L ..... 5

    

00

OO
00
OO

00

8888

00
00

OO

20

OO
00
OO

00
00
00
00
OO
00
OO
00
OO
00

00

00
OO
00

OO

 

 

 




 

 

Hoyt, Miss G. L ........ $5

Hubbard, Thomas E ..... 25

Hudson, Mrs. Alice P... . 3

Hunting, Walter C ...... 3

Huntington, Collis P ..... 20

Hupfel Brewing Co ...... 5

Hurry, Mrs. Randolph... 3
I

India Wharf Brewing Co. 5

Iron Clad Mfg. Co ....... 5

Iselin, Adrian, J1 ......... 3

Adrian ........... 150

“ Arthur ........... 3

“ Master O’D....... 3

“ Miss Louise A.... 3

“ Miss Therese ...... 3

“ Miss Adrienne 3

“ Mrs. William E... 3,

“ William E ......... 3

“ Wm. and O’D ..... 3

“ Lewis . .. . 3

Isley, S. A ............... 5

Itgen, E. H .............. 5
J

Jackson, Theo. F ......... IO

Jacquins, Mrs. Edward... 3

Jevons, Thos. E .......... 35

“J. M.,’ ’Brooklyn ....... 5

Joseph Fallert’s Biewing

..................... 5

Judson, H. I ............. IO

Judson, Mrs. D. H ....... I
K

Kelsey & Loughlin ....... 5

Kenyon & Newton ....... 5

Kines, E. W ............. I

King & Adams ........... 5

King, Mrs. Percy R ...... I

Klopsch, Louis .......... I

Knevals, L. S ............ 3
L

Lamson, Martha. ........ 3

Lane, Miss Francis A.. 5

Langdon, Woodbury G.. 5

Langler, N., & Sons” 5

Ianier,l\ Mrs J. F. D ...... 25

Lanson, Roger ........... 3

Lathers, A. R ........... 3

00
00
OO
00
OO
00
OO

00
00
00
00
00
00
OO
00
00
00
00
OO
00
00
00

OO
00
00
00

00
OO
00

OO
00
00
00
OO
00

00
OO
00

00
OO
00

137

Lawrence, C. J ...........

5 00

. Lawrence, Miss Han’h N. 25 00

Lee, Mrs. M. W ......... 3 00

Lee, Mrs. J. L .......... 20 00

Leonard, Walter ......... 3 00
Lewis, Mrs. Harry Dick-

inson .................. 5 00
Lewis, Mrs. George ...... 200 00
Lewis, Z. Edwards ...... 3 oo
Lindsley, Miss Emily V.. IO 00
Lins, H., & Sons ......... 5 oo
Livingston, Miss Ann L. 20 00
Lockett, Benj. C ......... 3 oo
Lockitt’s Sons, Geo ..... IO 00
Lockwood, Miss L. A... . I 00
Loewi, Edgar, and wife.. 25 00
Long Island Brewery. 5 00
Lusk, Mr ................ I 00

M

Macdonough, Mrs. J ..... 50 oo
Mackay, Mrs. B ......... 5 00
Mali, Chas ............... 8 oo
Marston 87. S011 .......... 5 00
Mathews & S011, A. D. . .. Io 00
Mathews, John. Firm of.. IO 00
Mattmann, Mrs. C. C.... 5 00
May, Levy & May ....... IO 00
McCagg, Mrs. Louis B... I0 00
McLoughlin, Chas ....... 3 00
McLoughlin, Mrs. J. G.. 3 00
Meeker, Dr. C. H ....... 100 00
Meeke1, Mrs. Ma1y E. . 100 00
Meltzer Bros.. . . .. 5 00
Merritt, Mrs M. E ...... 5 00
Milbank, Mrs. Joseph... 50 oo
Milbank, Joseph ......... 100 00
Milholland, John E ...... IO 00
Miller, Allen S .......... ' 2 00
Moffat, Miss Alice E. 100 00
Mollenhauer Sugar ng.

Co. . . . . .. ............. 5 00
Moore, Frank A ......... 3 oo
Moquin—Offerman—Heis-

senbuttel Coal Co ...... 5 00
Morgan, George H ....... 20 00
Morgan, Jr., J. P ....... 3 00
Morgan, Thos ........... 5 00
Morton, John & Sons. . . . 5 00

N
Nassau Brewing Co ...... IO 00
Neilson, John ............ 3 00

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

New York Condensed

Milk Co ................ $20 00
Noble, Mrs. Rob’t J ...... 5 00
North American Brewing

Co .................... 5 00
Noyes, Henry D ........ 5 00

- O
O’Gorman, R ............ 3 00
Oliver, R. N ............. 3 00
Owen, Mrs. Thomas J... 2 00
P
Palmer, D. L ............ 3 00
Parkhurst, Mrs. F. B... 5 00
Parrish, James C ........ 20 00
Parsons, Mrs. Edwin.... IO 00
Payson, Mrs. H. E ...... 3 00
Phelps, J. H ............. 5 00
Phoenix, Lloyd .......... IO 00
Plaut, S. & H ........... 5 00
Porter, Mrs. M. A ...... I5 00
Powell, D. B ............ 5 00
Power, Mrs. S. D ........ 50
Prescott, Mrs. A. E ...... 5 00
Preston, Mrs. G. R ...... 5 00
Proctor,Miss Henrietta F. 3 00
Putnam, George L ...... 5 00
Pyne, Mrs. Percy R ..... 5,000 00
R
Rapallo, Mrs. Edw. S... 5 00
Read, William A ........ 20 00
Remington, Frederic ..... 3 00
Rhinelander, Miss S ..... 100 00
Rhode & Schmidt ........ 5 00
Riehl, John W. .- ......... .3 00
Roberts, Dr. D. J ....... 3 00
Rogers, Mrs. M. S ....... 5 00
Rubsam & Horrmann. . . . IO 00
Rushmore, I. W .......... 10 00
S
Salesbury, Katharine ..... 5 00
Saxton, Mrs. ......... I5 00
Schaefer, F. & M., Brew—

ing Co ................. 5 00
Schaefer, F. & M., Brew—

ing' Co ................. IO 00

Schermerhorn, Mrs. John

a oooooooooooooooooooo

 

138

Seccomb, Miss Bertha H. $5
Seccomb, Mrs. E. A ..... 5
Seitz, ................. 5
Sheldon, James O ....... IO
Sherwood, R. E ......... _. 3
Shriver, Mrs. H. T ...... 3
Smith, F. N .............

Smith, Wm. Alexander.. IO
Southach, Mrs. B. L.... I
Stafford, W. F ....... 2.. 3
Strong, Theron G ........ 15
Stutz, Louis .............. 5

T
Taylor, Jas. R ...........

Thompson, Jas ...........

5
Thomas, Mrs. Ludlow. . . . 5
5
Thompson, J., & Sons. .. . IO

Thompson,. Mme. Sarah

Gills ..... ‘ ............. 5
Thorne, Miss Phebe Anna. 25
Topham, Mrs ............ I
Toplitz, Mrs. Celia ...... 50
Toplitz, S. M., ‘~‘ In mem—

ory of Celia Toplitz ”. . 25

U
Ulshoeffer,Wm. G ...... 5
U. S. Bung Mfg. Co ..... 5

V
Valentine, Mrs. A. C ..... 5
“ Valley Cottage,” Mrs. G.

H. C .................... 100
Van Nest, Mrs. Alex. T. . 25
Van Pelt, Rev. Daniel... 7
Vogel, Wm, & Bros.... 5

W
“ Wag ” ................. I
Wallace, Wm. H ......... 5
Ward, Miss F. L ......... 6
Waters, Chas. ........... 5
Weeks, T. W.. .......... 5
Weil, Lemuel ............ 5.
Wells, Geo. B ........... I
Wendel, The Misses. . . . 300
Westcott Express Co. .. . IO
Westcott Express Co ..... IO
Wheeler, W ............. 5

    

888

00
00
00

00

OO

00
00

8888

8888

00

OO

8

OO

00
00
OO
00
OO
00
OO
00
OO
00
OO

 

 




 

 

I39

White, A. M ............. $5 00 Winans, Miss Isabel T... $3 00
White, Miss May W ..... 5 00 Winans, Miss M. Antoi-

Wilde’s Sons, Samuel.... 5 oo nette .................. 5 oo
Wilhelm, Mrs. Emily.... 4 25 Winship, L. A ........... Io 00
Willets, R. R ............. 3 00 Woolson, Ira H .......... I 00

Williams, Miss Eliza C.. IO 00 Wright, Miss Harriet... 5 00

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

CALIFORNIA.——C072.
Fresno . .
Sausalito .

COIO.RADO
Denver .
Colorado Springs. .

CONNECTICUT.
Hartford . .
New Haven
Meriden .

DELAWARE
Wilmington

DISTRICT OF Coumm «
Washington
FLORIDA.

St. Augustine
jacksonville
Pensacola

Tampa . .
GEORGIA.

Augusta.

Atlanta

Macon .
Brunswick . . . .
ILLINOIS.

Chicago

Aurora . . . .
.Rockland . . . . .
Quincy .. . . . .
..Shelbyville .
‘Champaign . . .
Springﬁeld . . .
jacksonville . . . .
Jerseyville . . .
Harv.ard ..

 

FresnoSWPCA‘.
MarinCountySRCA............

Colorado Humane Society. .
El Paso County Branch Colorado Humane Society*

Connecticut Humane Society . . . . . . . . . .
The New Haven S. P. C. A. . . . . . . . . .
Meriden Humane Society . . . . . . . . .- . . .

DelawareS.P.C.A. ... . . . . . . Q.
The Washington Humane Society . . . . . . . .

St. Augustine Humane Society . . . . . . . .
The Jacksonville S. P. C. A. . . .

Humane Society . . . . . . . . . .

Tampa S. P. C. A. . . . . . . . . .

GeorgiaS. P. C. A. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Atlanta Humane Society . . . . . . . . . .
Macon Branch of Georgia S. P. C A. . . . . . .
Brunswick Humane Society . . . . . . . . . . .

The Illinois Humane Society' . . . . . . . . . .
The Aurora Humane Society

Winnebago County Branch Illinois Humane Society*
The Quincy Humane Society . .

The Shelby Co. Branch of The Illinois Humane Soc.

Champaign Branch Illinois Humane Society . . .
The Humane Society of Springﬁeld . . . . . . .
Jacksonville Humane Society . . . .
The Jerseyville Humane Society P. C A. & C. . .
Harvard Branch of The Illinois Humane Society .

 

49

165

I4

IO

1:27

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

I5

I48

IO

 

I34

\fcﬁ

 

50

22

 

I7

1413
I55

2703

.154

2222

25

 

141

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

ILLINOIS—Continued.
Danville. . .
Whitehall . .

INDIANA.
Indianapolis .
Crawfordsville
Evansville .
Fort Wayne
South Bend
Terra Haute .
Muncie . .
Elkhart . .
Richmond .
Peru. . . .
Kokomo: .

IOWA . . . .
Des Moines
Sioux City .
Iowa City

KANSAS.
Wichita
Topeka

KENTUCKY.
Louisville
Henderson
Frankfort .
Covington .

LOUISIANA.
New Orleans

MAINE.
Portland .
Bangor . .
Waterville .
Lewiston .
Waterville .

 

 

 

 

United States Humane Society
Whitehall Humane Society . .

The Indiana Humane Society . . . . . .
Montgomery County Humane Society P. C
The Evansville Humane Society P. C. W.,
Fort Wayne Humane Society .
The South Bend Humane Society
Terra Haute Humane Society . .
Muncie Humane Society . .
Elkhart Humane Society . . . .
Wayne County Humane Society .
The Humane Society of Peru, Ind.
Kokomo Humane Society . . .

The Iowa Humane Society . .
The Sioux City Humane Society .
Iowa City Humane Society . .

The Kansas Humane Society
The Foster Humane Society

Kentucky Humane S. P. C. . . .
Henderson Humane Society . . .
Franklin County Humane Society
Kenton County. Humane Society .

Louisiana State S. P. C. A.* .

Maine State S. P. A.* . . . . .
The Bangor Humane Society .
Waterville'S. P. C. A. . . . . .
Lewiston and Auburn S. P. C. A.
Waterville S. P. C. A. . . . . .

0

.IA: 8% C.
c. & A.

a

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

MARYLAND.
Baltimore
MASSACHUSETTS.
Boston
Taunton .
Lowell. . .
MICHIGAN.
Detroit . .
Grand Rapids
Kalamazoo
MINNESOTA.
St. Paul . .
Minneapolis .
Duluth . . .
St. Paul . . .
Owatonna .
Winona . . .
St. Cloud .
Red Wing . .
Rochester . .
Stillwater
MISSISSIPPI.
Natchez
MISSOURI.
St. Louis
St. Louis
Kansas City
St. Joseph
Sedaha
NEBRASKA.
Omaha

South Omaha

NEW HAMPSHIRE.
Portsmouth
Keene . .

. The Maryland S P. C. A. . . . . . . .

o

5

.

l

I

The Massachusetts S. P. C. A. . . .
Taunton Humane Society* . . . . . .
The Lowell Humane Society . . . . . .

Michigan S. P. C. A. . . . . . . . . .
Kent County Humane Society . . . . .
Kalamazoo Humane Society . . . . . .

Minnesota S. P. C. . . . . . . . . . .
Minneapolis Humane Society . . . . .
Duluth Humane Society . . . . . . .
St.PaulS.P.C.
Steele County Humane Society . .

The Winona Humane Society . . . . .
St. Cloud Humane Society . . . . . .
Red Wing Humane Society . . . . . .
Rochester Humane Society . . . . . .

Stillwater Humane Society . . . . . .i

The Mississippi S. P. C. A. . . . . . .

Humane Society of Missouri . . . . .
Woman’s Humane Society of Missouri .
The Humane Society of Kansas City.
The Humane Society of St. Joseph . . .
The Humane Society of Sedalia, Missouri

Nebraska Humane Society . . .
South Omaha Humane Society.

New Hampshire S. P. C. A. . .
The Keene Humane Society . . . .

 

 

IOO

I2
IO

I7
IO

M?

 

 

 

 

359
33

 

 

 

25

II

35

87
I6
16

 

 

 

 

 

 

. 1.06

833

2000

30I
800
225

I42

23
134

821

2.5 O.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

“"‘-—"——!- Mg...__.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

NEw JERSEY.
Newark . . .
Jersey City .
Cape May
Vineland
Morristown .
Camden .
Hackensack
Elizabeth
Perth Amboy
Cranford.
Paterson.
Somerville .
Princeton .
Lodi .

Orange .

NEW YORK.
New York
Sing Sing
Rochester .
Buffalo . .
Poughkeepsie
Newburg . .
Oswego . . .
Fulton.
Syracuse. . .
Nyack. .
Elmira .
Binghamton .
Kingston
Watertown.
Albany
Lockport.

 

The New Jerseys. P. C. A. . . . .
The Hudson County District S. P C. A . . .
Cape May, N. J., District S. P. C. A. . . . . .
The VinelandS. P. C. A. . .

Morris County Branch New Jersey S. P. C. A.
The Camden S. P. C. A. . . . . .
The Bergen CountyS. P. C. A. . . . . .
The S. P. C. A. of Union County, N. J. * . .

: ? Perth Amboy S. P. C. A.

Cranford, N. J. Branch of The N. J. S. P. C. A.
Passaic County District S. P. C. A. . . . . . .
Somerset CountyS. P. C. A. . . . . . . . . .
PrincetonS. P. C. A. . . . . .
District Society in Lodi, Bergen County . . .
Essex County District S. P. C. A. . . . . . .

The American S. P. C. A..1'

Sing Sing Branch of the American S. P.
The Humane Society of Rochester, N. Y.
The Erie County S. P. C. A.* . . . .
The Poughkeepsie S. P. C. A.

The NewburgS. P. C. A. . .

S. P. C. A. of Oswego City, N. Y. .

S. P. C. A. of Village of Fulton, N. Y.
The Central New York S. P. C. A.

The Rockland County S. P. C. A.

The ElmiraS. P. C. A... .
Broome County S. P. C. A. .

The Ulster CountyS. P. C. A. . . .
Jefferson CountyS. P. C. A. . .
Mohawk and Hudson River Humane Society.
The Niagara County S. P. C. A. . . . . . . .

C
P.

1‘ Includes work of its own agents throughout the State.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

NEW YORK.—C07z. 1 '
Cortland. . . . . . The Cortland CountyS P. c. A. . . . . . . 6 3 4’ 20
Rome . . . . . . . The Stevens S. P. C. A. of Rome, N. Y. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Auburn . . . . . . The Cayuga County S. P. C. A. . . . . . . . . . 4 6 2 2 . . . ‘ 52-

NORTH CAROLINA
Asheville . . . . . The North Carolina S. P. C. A.‘ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Wilmington . . . . North Carolina S. P. C. C. & A. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . '. . . . . . .

OHIO.
Cincinnati . . . . . The Ohio Humane Society . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cleveland . . . . . Cleveland Humane Society . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . -
Canton . . . . . . The Canton Humane Society . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Columbus . . . . . Humane Society of City of Columbus, Ohio . - . I7 . . . . . . . . . . . . i647
Toledo. . - . . . . Toledo Humane Society" . . . . . 7 68 8g . . . . . 447
Warren . . . . The Trumbull County Humane Society. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . V. . . . .
Dayton . . . . . Dayton Ohio, Humane Society P. C. .&A. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Athens . . . . . . AthensS. P. C. A. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sandusky . . . The Erie County Humane Society . . . . . . . . 2 IO 2 . . '. . . . 25
Portsmouth . . . . Scioto County Humane Society. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . s . . . H
Ashtabula . . . . Ashtabula County Humane Society . . . . . . I . ’. . . . . . . . . , . IO «k
Chagrin Falls . . . The Chagrin Falls Humane Society P. C. C. & A. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . l '. . “1
Pomeroy. . . . . . Pomeroy Branch Humane Society . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . l
Youngstown _. . . . The Youngstown Humane Society . . . . . . . . . . . . . . , , , . . _ _ _ i . . .

l
!

 

 

n

Yellow Springs. . . Yellow Springs Humane Society. . , , , , , _ . . . . _ . _ _ _ _ _
Tifﬁn . . . . . . Seneca County Humane Society . . . . . . . , , , , . . _ . ' . . _ ‘
Chardon . . . . . . The Chardon Humane Society. . . . . . . . . . 3 2 1
Norwalk. . . . . . Huron County Humane Society . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
New Lexington . . Humane Society of New Lexington . . . . . . . I . . . . . . .
Lima . . . . . . Lima Branch of Ohio Humane Society . . . . . . 8 I4 4 4 . .

OREGON. .
Portland. . . . . . The Oregon Humane Society . . . . . . . . . . 8 I32 35 12 I32 345

PENNSYLVANIA. . ‘
Philadelphia . . . . The Pennsylvania S. P. C. A. . . . . . . . . . 4938 199 64 326 20093
Philadelphia . . . . VVomen’s Pennsylvania S. P. C. A. . . . . . . - 423 509 115 6340 42 1127 1
Lancaster . . . . . LancasterS. P. C. A . . . . . . . . . . 5 H3 .5 4 15 100
York...-...TheYorkCountyHSPC.A......................

12

’ <1-
N

<1-
0
co

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

PENNSYLVANIA.—C07Z.

Pittsburg . .
West Chester
Reading. . .
Williamsport.
Scranton. . .
Erie. . .
Wilkesbarre
Altoona . .
RHODE ISLAND.
Providence
Newport .

SOUTH CAROLINA.

Charleston.
Columbia
‘Greenville .
Spartanburg .
TENNESSEE.
Memphis
Chattanooga .
Knoxville .
Nashville
Jackson . . .
TEXAa
Galveston . .
Waco . . . .
Austin. . . .
UTAH.
Salt Lake City
VERMONT.
Chester

Brattleborough.

Rutland . .
Burlington. .
Chester . . .

 

 

Western Pennsylvania Humane Society* .
Chester Co. Auxiliary Women’s Branch Pa. S P. C. A.
BerksCountySWPCA- ..
Lycoming County S. P. C. A. . . .

Lackawanna Branch of Pennsylvania S. P. C A. .
Northwestern Pennsylvania Humane Society. .
Luzerne County Humane Association P. C.C .& A.
The Central Pennsylvania Humane Society . .

Rhode Island S. P. C. A..*
Newport Branch of Rhode Island S. P. C. A.

The South Carolina S. P. C. A. . .
Richland County, South Carolina,

5 13. 'cfA'. I
Greenville Branch of South Carolina S. P. C A
The Spartanburg S. P. C. A. . . . . .

Tennessee S. P. C. A. & C.
Chattanooga Humane Society
Knox County Humane Society
Nashville Humane Society . . .
Madison County Humane Society

The Galveston S. P. C. A.
The Texas Humane Society
Austin Humane S. P. C. A.

Utah Humane Society .

Vermont Humane Society . . .
The Brattleborough S. P. C. A.
SocietyPMCA.....
Vermont Society P. C. A. . . .
Chester Humane Society

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




Randolph .
VIRGINIA.
Richmond .
Norfolk . .
Portsmouth
Lynchburg
WASHINGTON.
Tacoma
Seattle.

WEST VIRGINIA.

Wheeling
WISCONSIN.
Milwaukee.
Oshkosh .
Sheboygan.
Manitowoc .

Port Washington .

Janesville .
BRITISH
Halifax .
Hamilton
Kingston
'Montreal
Ottawa .
Quebec . .

St. John, N. B.

Toronto

Fredericton
Moncton. .
Winnipeg .

.Iohn’ s, N’ ﬂd.

Y

N o AMERICA.

 

 

The Randolph H umane Society . . .

RichmondS. P. C. A. . . . . . . . . . .
NorfolkS. P. C. A. . . . . ' . . . . . .
Woman’s Humane Society of Virginia . . . . . .
The Lynchburg Humane Society . . . . . . . .

TacomaS.P.C.A................
Seattle Humane Society. . . . . . . . . . . .

WestVirginiaS. P. C.A. . . . . . . . . . .
Wisconsin Humane Society . .

Fox River Valley District, The Wis. Humane soc. *
Sheboygan Branch of the Wis. Humane Society. .
Manitowoc Branch of Wisconsin Humane Society.
Organized Committee of Wisconsin Humane Soc.
Janesville Humane Society . . . . . . . . . . .

The Nova Scotia S. P. C. . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hamilton S. P. C. A.* . . . . . . . . . . .
Kingston Humane Society . . . - . . . . . . .

TheCanadianS.P.C.A. . . . . . . . . . . . .-

Ottawa Humane Society . . . . . . . . . . .
Quebec S. P. C. A. . . . . . . . . . . . . .
New Brunswick S. P. C. A . . . . . . . . . . .
Toronto Humane Society . . . . . . . . . . .
Fredericton S. P. C. A. . . . . . . . . . . .
Moncton S. P. C. A. . . . . . . . . . .
Winnipeg S. P. C.
C

A...........
St. John’s S.P A. .

 

21

1-09.

 

 

283
43

 

 

12

.6 7.

IO

 

539
285

I0

 

:l. .82.

IO

254

22.
115
524
I42

 

I3.

 

 

I47

 

 

 

 

 




...

THE AMERICAN SOCIETY

FOR THE

PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS

INCORPORATED .BY THE STATE OF NEW YORK
APRIL 10, 1866

o ‘

WW4 . .

4....

THIRTY-THIRD ANNUAL REPORT

FOR THE YEAR ENDING DECEMBER 31, 1898

O

’

- ufzm :L

.—
5

JOHN P. HAINES, PRESIDENT

'

HEADQUARTERS OF THE SOCIETY:

§

MADISON AVENUE AND 26TH STREET

'NEW YORK

(B‘m\
-- W ~

1899

Gaga,”
0.

~ .9
I
1
I
I
l
I
I
!
I
.
I

‘i

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

HEADQUARTERS OF THE SOCIETY, MADISON AVE. AND 26TH ST., NEW YORK

 

 

 




 

9

in 1898. I should have been better pleased to report a smaller
number. It would be a great triumph for the cause of human-
ity if the owners of disabled and decrepit animals would vol-
untarily release them from labor which they are unﬁt to per-
form; but the owners of such animals are usually very poor and
sometimes dependent on their beasts of burden for their own
daily subsistence. In such circumstances one can not wonder
that the voice of mercy is overpowered by what appears to be
the demand of necessity. This is a matter which we have no
power to control, and ﬂuctuations in our reports of work done
must be expected.

3. The next item of horses, mules and other large animals
humanely destroyed when they have been disabled past recov-
ery, is larger than in former years. Indeed, with two-excep-
tions, it is the largest in the twelve. This, on the whole, is
gratifying, since it means that the owners of such animals pre-
fer to have them painlessly destroyed by our agents instead of
resorting to brutal and often very painful means of destruction.

4. The humane destruction of homeless or disabled ‘small ani—
mals, such as dogs and cats, is the largest on record, more than
seventy—ﬁve times 'as great as in 1887. This is a part of our
Shelter Work which is now fully established. There can be no
.doubt of the public service to the community which has been
rendered by our Shelter ’system; and the painless destruction
of these homeless, helpless, neglected, and generally diseased
animals, while delivering the human community from a pestilent
nuisance, has conferred an unspeakable beneﬁt of health and
comfort upon the animal population.

5. It will be observed that our ambulance work increases, the
. record of the year having been eXceeded only once in the twelve
years. ‘

6. The number of cases'investigated is likewise the largest
on record. Most of those cases, of course, are connected with
our Shelter department in response to thousands of calls from
private citizens. The amount of direct personal inquiry which
these cases involve could hardly, I think, be‘overstated. ‘ I am

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

REPORT OF THE SUPERINTENDENT.

The thirty-third year of the Society’s labors in behalf of
suffering animals and in enforcing the humane laws of the
State, proves, by the following detailed report, that the civiliz-
ing work goes steadily on, spreading abroad its influence for
good, a menace to the cruelly inclined; an educator to the ris-
ing generation. Champions of God’s inferior creation are found
everywhere—on the battleﬁeld—the wrecked vessel—the burn-
ing building, or amidst the raging storm. Instances of the
rescue of animals from perilous surroundings, or of physical
interference to save them from cruelty, are of almost daily
occurrence, showing that right—thinking people recognize their
moral obligations to that race of beings which contribute so
much to the well being of the human race.

While neglecting no opportunity of enforcing the penalties
prescribed by the statutes of the State, the preventive pur-
pose of the Society always predominates. To instance each
particular case of cruelty prevented or punished, would require
more space than can be accorded at this time. Everything has
been done, however, within the power and scope of the Society
to carry out the objects of its organization, viz.: protection to
the brute creation.

It might'be inferred that cruelty to animals is on the de-
crease, by reason of the lesser number of cases herereported
prosecuted than in previous years. By reference to the large
number of complaints investigated, it will be seen at a glance
that many alleged acts of cruelty have been remedied without

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

26

other times from the chimney ﬂues. Men, women, and chil—
dren sought for days to 10Cate the cat. Then an appeal was
made to the Society for assistance. The agent who was sent
toinvestigate the case found, after much trouble, that when
the buildings were erected, a space of about eighteen inches
in width had been left between the structures. This opening
extended from front to rear; but the front and rear walls had
been built up solid, so as to make the two houses appear a
continuous building. - Into that opening pussy had managed
to fall in some unaccountable manner. The distance from top
to bottom was about ninety feet, but about halfway up a win—
dow opened into one of the rooms. With several boards the
agent made a runway which he lowered from the window open- »
ing to the ground. The cat seemed to understand that some-
thing was being done for her rescue; for no sooner did the
end of the improvised bridge touch the ground than she sprang
upon it, ran up to the window, and into the agent’s arins. ‘ A
« meal of milk and bread was furnished by a little girl who
had been most devoted in her efforts to rescue the cat from
.. death by starvation. Pussy was taken to the Shelter for re-
cuperation and subsequently adopted by a farmer of Long
Island.

By reason of new territory having been annexed to the
Greater City, the physical resources of the Society have been
taxed to their utmost limit: and the small force of uniformed
agents available are inadequate to cope with the constantly in-
creasing requirements of the service; yet they have been vigi-.
lant and attentive to their manifold duties, exercising wise
discretion and judgment in all matters pertaining to the work
of animal protection.

The Brooklyn department of our work, under the able man-
agement of Inspector Clark, has been vigorously and wisely
conducted. .

In conclusion, the undersigned acknowledges, and highly
appreciates the courtesy and earnest suppOrt extended to the

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Jan. 16.

Jan. 18.

Jan. 19.

Jan. 24.

34

Clarence Jacobs, of Tottenville, S. I., was charged with
overdriving and cruelly beating a horse. Several well—
known residents of Staten Island appeared as witnesses for
the prosecution at the trial before Justice Wood, of Totten-
ville. Jacobs was found guilty and sentenced to pay a ﬁne
of twenty—ﬁve dollars.

' Julius Casey, of Hoboken, N. J., was advised not to drive
his horse, because it was lame, Weak, and feeble. He dis—
regarded the warning and was found driving along the
Bowery, this city. The horse was very lame in the off hind
leg and could hardly touch the foot to the ground, yet Casey
was urging the poor creature along. The latter was taken to
the veterinary hospital, while the former was charged in the
Magistrate’s Court with cruelty to animals, and was sub-
sequently ﬁned twenty-ﬁve dollars by the Court of Special
Sessions.

Henry Martinson was driving a team of horses attached
to a heavily loaded truck. The wretched condition of the
animals attracted the attention of several persons, who re-
monstrated with the driver, advising him to unharness the
horses and take them to a stable for veterinary treatment.
The humane request had no effect. An ofﬁcer of the So—
ciety was then summoned, who diagnosed the case of one
of the animals as follows: “ Lame, nigh fore—foot; separa—
tion between hair and hoof; cut on off fore—foot; on off side.
of breast sore, unprotected from the harness; emaciated and
unﬁt for work.” Martinson was inclined to be obstinate.
When told by the ofﬁcer to take the horses to the stable,
he insolently re'plied: ,“ If you want the horses, take them
out yourself.” No second invitation was necessary. The
Society’s ambulance was summoned and the more miserable
horse was carried to a veterinary hospital. Martinson regrets
that he did not comply with the advice given him, as he
was subsequently sentenced to pay a ﬁne of ﬁfty dollars,
with the alternative of imprisonment for twenty days, by the
Court of Special Sessions, Justice Hinsdale presiding.

Edward Castleton and William J. Sullivan, of Yonkers,
N. Y., compelled a horse to remain all night in an open lot,
exposed to the inclemency of the weather. It snowed and
rained during the night, and when the horse- was found by
the Society’s ofﬁcer it was in a pitiful condition. Castleton
and Sullivan pled guilty to the charge of cruelty and were

 




42

every time he was kicked,” testiﬁed the witness. Vakinier
was convicted and sentenced to pay a ﬁne of twenty—ﬁve
dollars or to be imprisoned for ten days.

April 14. On the morning of April I4 information was received
by the Society that a large c0cking main would be fought
at Michael Kearney’s National Hotel, Blissville, L. I. The
affair was to come off at eleven o’clock at night, and many
prominent sporting men and others were expected to be
present. A force of Society officers and policemen from
the Long, Island precinct raided the place at half-past eleven,
and found about a hundred persons sitting around a cock—
pit erected in the center of the floor of a large hall. The en-
trance of the ofﬁcers was a signal for a general scramble to es-
cape, and many got away through windows and private exits.
Thirty persons were captured and sent to the Long Island '

J 9.1.2.2: police station in patrol wagons. The prisoners, when ar-

1 raigned before Justice Luke J. Connorton, were held for

J J J trial at the Court of Special Sessions under $100 bail' each.

1, ‘Jl A warrant of arrest' was issued for Michael Kearney, the.

J — proprietor, and he also was held for trial. All the defend-

J ants were arraigned before the Court of Special Sessions of

J'JJ . the Second Division held in the Courthouse at Jamaica,

‘ :93le L. I., Judges Courtney, Devenney, and Foraker. The ev1—

J J dence, although strongly circumstantial, was not sufﬁcient

in the minds of the Court to convict the defendants, and all

J were acquitted, with a sharp warning from' presiding

J-lJQEJ . Judge Courtney. The raid resulted, however, in causing

'JJ Kearney to give up the business and declare he would have
no more cock ﬁghting.

April I6. For driving a lame, sore, and feeble horse, Robert Bran-
nigan, of Fort Lee, N. J., was ﬁned twenty—ﬁve dollars by

J, . Judges Hayes, Holbrook, and Hinsdale, of the Court of

JJ ‘ Special Sessions. “The horse could hardly put the lame

JliJ J foot to the ground,” said the complaining witness.

JJJ J April 19. “ Nothing but skin and bone, lame, sore, and could scarcely

J walk,” testiﬁed the Society’s ofﬁcer at the trial of Julius J.

J; Wessler, before Judges Hinsdale, Holbrook, and Jerome.

J The horse, a gray, was in a pitiful condition and hauling a

loaded wagon, when found by the ofﬁcer. The further suf—

JJ fering of the poor animal was mercifully ended. Wessler

J _ was sentenced. to pay a ﬁne of twenty dollars or to be im—

‘J prisoned for ten days.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

21,10A MUN ‘JOMB lSlf'ﬂ [)UU $00,118 P60] 'SWUIEU‘V' .10} JQIIQQS

NOV/ELL NO UNLLSEH GNV
){NVL W083 NM‘V’HCIHLIM. MODEM. DNIAAOHS ‘S'IVWIN‘V' "I”IVWS :IO NOLLODELLSECI EINVWQH Ell-LL 80:1 ){NVL SVD ”1331.8

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




   

 

 

 

 

Sept.

Sept.

Sept.

Aug. 15.

Aug. 16.

13.

3o.

 

58

   
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
  
   
   
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
  

August Silverman, of Schuyler Lake, N. Y., was sentenced
to be imprisoned in the county jail for ﬁfteen days by Justice
Ingalls, for abandoning a sick horse on the public highway.

Martin Morris, a live poultry dealer, was arrested While
carrying twenty—one live ducks in a box measuring two feet
ten and one—half inches long by two feet one inch wide. The
animals could neither stand nor move about, and were almost
dead from suffocation when seen by the agent of the Society.
Morris plead guilty to the charge of carrying animals in a
cruel manner, and was sentenced to pay a ﬁne of ten dollars,
or to be imprisoned for three days by the Court of Special

Sessions.

Walter Davis, for his own amusement, set two pug dogs
to ﬁght, and because one of them started to run away, Davis
picked it up by the neck and, in the language of a spectator,
“ nearly choked the animal to death, then beat it on the head
with his clenched ﬁst." Several witnesses testiﬁed to the
cruelty at the trial of the defendant in the Court of Special
Sessions, and presiding Judge Jerome sentenced Davis to pay
a ﬁne of ten dollars, or to be imprisoned for three days.

Marie Cusino, of New Rochelle, was ﬁned ten dollars by
Judge Lambden for unjustiﬁably exposing a poisonous sub-
stance, with the intent that the same should be taken by a
neighbor’s poultry. In addition to the above the defendant
was charged with breaking a chicken’s leg with an iron rake.

Napoleon Nichoutine, of VVatertown, N. Y., threw a live
dog into the river from a bridge forty feet high. The defend-
ant plead guilty and was sentenced to pay a ﬁne of ﬁve dol—
lars, or -to be imprisoned ten days by a local justice of the

peace.

Albert Sandford was arraigned before Justices Jerome,
Holbrook, and Hinsdale, of the Court of Special Sessions, on
the charge of having failed to provide food for sixteen dogs
and one cat which were found by the Society imprisoned and
starving in Sandford’s room. The Society’s ofﬁcer testiﬁed
to the Court that Sandford had been dispossessed on Septem-
ber 30, for non—payment of rent. The dogs were then discov-
ered in his room, and complaint was made immediately to
the Society’s headquarters. Within an hour the suffering ani-
mals were taken to the Shelter, and Sandford was put under
ﬁve hundred dollars’ bail, by City Magistrate Brann, to stand

 




  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

68

ARKANSAS.
Humane Society‘of Little Rock, Ark.

Little Rock.
LOUIS BLASS, President. I R. W. PORTER, Secretary.

——

CALIFORNIA.
The San Francisco Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to ”Animals.
403 Parrott Building, San Francisco.
N. P. COLE, President. - l C. B. HOLBROOK, Secretary.
The Los Angeles Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Los Angeles. ‘

ASA A. CLARK, President. NIR'S. ELIZABETH MILLS MIL—
LARD, \ Secretary.

Santa Clara County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
§ 45 North First Street, San Jose.
COL. A. K. WHITT ON, Pres. I C. C. LELAND, Secretary.

San Diego Humane Society.
~ San Diego.
ARTHUR G. NASON, President. I H. H. PALMER, Secretary.
The Sacramento County Humane Society.
514 “ K ” Street, Sacrairiertto.
GEO. D. SMITH, President. I I. SCHAD, Secretary.
The Oakland Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
. 906 Broadway, Oakland.
GILES I-I. GRAY, Pres. ] E. L. KNOWLTON, Secretary.

Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals of San Bernardino
County, Cal.

. Redlands.
EZRA CROSSMAN, President. | . Sec.

 

Santa Barbara Humane Society.
H op/eiris Bloc/a, Room 5, Santa Barbara.
RONALD THOMAS, President. I EDWARD T. BALCH, Sec.

 

 




 

75

Wayne COunty Humane Society.
Richmond.

l MRS. FRANK M. CLARK, See.
The Humane Society of Peru, Ind.

J. EDGAR ILIF F , President.

Peru.

1 MRS. M. PUTERBAUGH, Sec.
Kokomo Humane Society.

JOHN L. MILLER, President.

Kokomo.
E. N. COLE, President. I MISS MINNIE A. TRUEBLOOD,
l Secretary.
IOWA.

The Iowa Humane Society.
Des M oiiies.

JAMES CALLANAN, President. [JOSEPH R. ORWIG, Secretary.

The Sioux City Humane Society.

I Sioux City. ,
GEO. H. CORNELL, Pres. I EDWARD CROMVVELL, Sec.

The Iowa City Humane Society.

Iowa City.

REV.

 

KANSAS.
The Kansas Humane Society.
W iehita.
J. M. KNAPP, President. I MRS. E. G. ROBERTS, Secretary.
The Foster Humane Society.
Topeka.
JUDGE CASSIUS G. FOSTER, SAM RADGES, Secretary.
President.
KENTUCKY.
Kentucky Humane Society for Prevention of Cruelty.
Masonic Temple, 411 IV est Green- Street, Louisville.
JOHN H. LEATHERS, Presidentl MISS BERTHA WILSON, Sec.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

83

Cranford, Union County, Branch of The New Jersey Society for
the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

C ranford.
GEORGE A. MORRISON, Pres. I ALFRED H. MILLER, Sec.

Passaic County District Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals.

119 Ellison Street, Paterson. _

ARTHUR W. BISHOP, Pres. I EUGENE PULIS, Secretary.
Somerset County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

S omervill e. .
JOHN H. LORD, President. IJOHN VOORHEES, Secretary.

Princeton Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Princeton.

W. B. GREENE, JR., President. I MISS M. C. SCUDDER, Sec.
District Society in Lodi, Bergen County.
Lodi.

JAMES W. MERCER, Pres. ’ IJACOB VAN HOOK, Secretary.

The Essex County District Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals.
Orange.
J. L. ESTEE, President. I E. P. VAN WAGENEN, Sec.

-——.—_

NEW YORK.

WESTCIIESTER COUNTY.
The Sing Sing Branch of The American Society for the Prevention
of Cruelty to Animals.
Incorporated March 12, I883.
, Sing S in g.
MRS. CLINTON S. ARNOLD, MARGARET C. MILLER, Sec.
President. I

 

MONROE COUNTY.
The Humane Society of Rochester, N. Y., for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals.
Incorporated August 9, I888.
90 S ophia Street, Rochester.
J. B. Y. WARNER, President. I MISS S. HYATT, Sec.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

92
Lackawanna Branch of The Pennsylvania Society for the Preven-
tion of Cruelty to Animals.

Scranton.
JOHN M. KEMMERER, Pres. I MRS. D. B. ATHERTON, Sec.

Northwestern Pennsylvania Humane Society.
Erie.
HON. F. F. ADAMS, President. I HON.W. B. FLICKINGER, Sec.

Luzerne County Humane Association for the Prevention of Cruelty
’ to Children and Animals.

W ilkesbarre.
JOHN N. CONYNGHAM, Pres. REV. HORACE EDWIN HAY-
DEN, Secretary.
The Central Pennsylvania Humane Society.
letoona.
MRS. ELIZABETH O. STRAT- MISS SIDNEY COLESTOCK,
TAN, President. . Secretary.

RHODE ISLAND.
Rhode Island Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
61 W est-ri-iinster Street, Providence.
HON. J. C. B. WOODS, President. I JOHN W. ANGELL, Secretary.

Newport Branch of the Rhode Island Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals.

Newton Building, N ewport.
EDWARD R. WHARTON,

Treasurer.

___———_

SOUTH CAROLINA.
The South Carolina Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
C havrl eston.
J. ALWY N BALL, President. I F. F. CHAPEAU, Secretary.

Richland County, South Carolina, Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals. ,

Columbia. .
TILMAN WATSON, President. I D. R. FLENNIKEN, Secretary.

   
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
      
 
 
 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

AUSTRIA- HUNGARY—C 'a’
Linz. .

Mahr Ostrau .
Prague .

Przemysl .
Rzeszow .
Temesvar
Trieste .

Vienna

Zagreb .
Zara .
BELGIUM.
Antwerp .
Brussels
Ghent
Liege .
Louvain
Malines
Namur.
Verviers

DENMARK.

Copenhagen

EGYPT.
Alexandria .
Cairo . . . .

ENGLAND.
London

FRANCE.
Biarritz . . . . . .

 

 

P.
S.

.P.
'.A'
.A.
'hmen .
es
Vienna S P. C. A. and seven

branches
A.

Z
P.Z
P.Z
P.
P..C "
P..A

ntwerp S. Prot. ofA.
a1

Lin
3
S.
R
S.
i
S.
S.
An
R0
S.
S.
S.
S.
S.
V

Denmark S. P. C. A. and six
l branches .

Alexandria S. P. C. A.
Cairo S. P. C. A.

for. the. Kingdom. (31%

W Branch .Galician S. P. C. A.

erviers S. for Suppress’ n of C. toA.

Sylvester Pelschimoosky .
Florian Gartner . .

Mathias N‘ovotny . . .
Hubert VOn Freyberger .

D. M. Parlagi' Marton .
Com. Luca Pellegrini

i Richard Tunkler

Prof. E. Kamenar .
John Testa . . .

.. . . Julien Koch . . . .
S. Prot. of A. of Brussels .

Alphonse Solvyns. . . .
Alphonse Gulikers
Victor Hénot . .
J."Mastboom
Baron Fallon . .
Jules Ruhl . .

 

 

 

..i F. Chr. Lembcke

H. E. Sabri Pacha.

‘(

l Royal S. P. C. A. [and branches l H. R. H. Duke of York

throughout England].
S. P. A.

S
E. Ardoin

 

 

Ossokar Beer.
Richard Hartmann.

Josef. Hudl.

Joh. Haralewicz.

Graef Janos.
Ant. Gianelli.

Gustav von Henriquez.

Drag. Leskovac.
Charles Fughim.

Adolphe van den Bosch.
Alban Roels.

H. Louveigne.

—— Fécher.

E. van den Eynde.
Leon Diercxnes.

Emile Dupont.

I Jules Ruhl.

P. Jo'rgensen.

A. von Dumreicher.
Hon. Arthur Stanley.

John Colam.

M. Vail.

 

 




 

 

 

 

RUSSIA— Continued.

Oofa . . . . . . . Oofa Sec. of The RussianS. P. A. Gov. N. Lozwinoff . . —— Yolianowsky.
Orel. . . . . . . . Orel Sec. of The Russian S. P. A. A. Staritsky. . . . . . . ———Zywopiczeff.
Riga. . . . . . . LivlandS. P. A . . . . . M. Werbatus . . . . . . F. W. Deringer.

Rostov- on- Don . . . Don Sec. of The Russian S. P. A. Maj. -Gen. Irekoff. —— Turmoresoff.
Simferopol . . . . . Taurida Sec. ofThe RussianS. P. A. E. Kessler. Kazcouchoff.

St. Petersburg. . . . The Russian S. Prot. A. . . . Col. A. R. Gersh‘elmann: Col. P. P. Joukowsky.

Stavropoi . . . . . i Stiggiédgegm? of.The.R.us.- i T. A. Kaskinsky. . . . . . A. T. Taroshenko.

. . Thuemen Section of The Rus- .

Thuemen(S1ber1a) . i sianS P A . . . . . . g—Sh1shkowsky.

Tiﬂis. . . . . . . . TiﬁisS. Prot. A. . . . . . S. A. Klimoff. . . . . . . I. M. Panoff.

Uman. . . . . . . . Unman Sec. of The RussianS. P. A. D. Levanda . . T. Rasoum.

Vilna. . . ‘. . . . Vilna Sec. of The Russian S. P. A. Maj. —Gen. 0. K. Sharsky. . A. Rylshewicz.
Voronezh Section of the Rus- I

Voronezh. . . . . . { SlanS. P A ' . s A. A. Isaeff . . . .. . . P. A. Kedroffh

Warsaw. . . . . . . Warsaw Sec. of The RussianS. P. A. BaronI. Brﬁning. . . . . S. F. Nedselsky.

Zytomir . . . Zytomir Sec. of The Russ1an S.P.A. Baron de Chaudoire .
SCOTLAND.

Aberdeen. . . . . . Aberdeen Ass’n P. C. A . . . . . Lord Provost of Aberdeen . Alex. J. R. Thain".
Arbroath . . . . . Arbroath Branch Scottish S.P.C.A. Henry Corstophine. . . . . Webster & Littlejohn.
Ayr‘. . . . . . . . . S. P. A.
Dundee. . . . . . S. P. A.
Dunfermline . . . . S. P. A.
Edinburgh . . . . . Scottish S. P. C. A. . . . . . . . The Lord Provostof Edin’gh Archibald Langwill, C. A.
Forfar . . . . . . . S. P. A.

G1§SgPOWCat§ West Of Scotland i The Lord Provost ofGlasgow Henry F. Lowndes.

rne.ssS P. C. A. . . . . . Rev. I. I. Black .. . . . . Robert Davidson.

 

 

 

Glasgow

Inverness . . In
Perth. . . . . . . . .S.
Tavistock. S.
SOUTH AFRICA.

Barberton (S. A R. ). 5
Cape Town. Ca

A... ....................W.Prosser.
eof Good IiopeS . P. C. A . . Hon.SirRic’rd Southey,K.C. W. Pavel.

ve
P.
P.
P.
aep

 

 




  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

116

SCHENECTADY COUNTY.

HOAG, C. E .......................................... Quaker Street
SCHOHARIE COUNTY.
PLANK, OLIVER F ..................................... Gallupville
SCHUYLER COUNTY.
WAIT, WILLIAM HENRY ................................ Watkins
SENECA COUNTY.
KNIGHT, LEWIS J ........................................ Farmer
STEUBEN COUNTY.
BURKE, THOMAS W ..................................... Addison
PHILLIPS (M.D.), CHARLES R ..................... Hornellsville
WILKES, ROBERT B. . . . . . . . . ................................ Bath
SUFFOLK COUNTY.
ANDERSON, THOMAS S. W ......................... Stony Brook
BALCI—IEN, OSCAR L ...................................... Babylon
BRUSH, BENJAMIN F ............. ' ........... Cold Spring Harbor
CAMPBELL, A. H ...................................... Huntington
GILDERSLEEVE, SELAH P ............................... Elwood
HOMAN, C. E. C .................................. .- . .East Hampton
HOWELL, 'WILLIAM M. . . . . . . . . ......................... Setauket
MORISON, GEORGE W .............................. Ronkonkoma
MULFORD, HENRY D .............. _. ................... Northport
POST, REGIS H ........................................... Bayport
REEVES, DETMOLD ................................... Greenport
ROGERS, JOHN F .................................... Southampton
SAVAGE (M.D.), WILLIAM B .......................... East Islip
SIMONS, FRANCIS W ............................... Shelter Island
SMITH, CHARLES F ................. ' .................. Cutchogue
STRONG, JAMES S ..................................... Wainscott
SUYDAM, VVALTER'L ................................. Blue Point
VAIL, ALFRED R ......................................... Southold
WELLS, GEORGE B ................................ Baiting Hollow
WIGGINS, JR., DAVID BSag Harbor
SULLIVAN COUNTY.
CREVELING, REV. P. C .................................. Liberty
DECKER, A. A ...................................... Mountain Dale
GRANT, EDWARD W ...................................... Liberty

SMITH, HENRY H .................................... Youngsville

 

 




 

   

 
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
     

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Close, S. B.

Clyde, Miss Mabel
Coburn, Miss L. C.
Cockey, Edward C.
Coe, Miss Miriam Storrs
Cohen, Albert A.
Cohen, Solomon L.
Cohen, Stanley A.
Cohn, Mrs. Louie H.
Colby, Miss May Colgate
Colby, William Colgate
Cole, Mrs. Hugh L.
Colgate, A. W.
Colgate, Mrs. A. W.
Colgate, James B.
Conner, Mrs. Crowell M.
Constable, W.

Cook, Frank D. .
Cooke, Mrs. Laura E.
Cooper, Charles W.
Corbett, C. H.
Corbin,Dr. Job

Cornell, Hon. Robert C.
Coster, C. H.

Coudert, Frederic R.
Coutts, Mrs. G. H.
Cowdin, Winthrop
Cowles, Alfred A.

Cox, Charles F.
Cramer, L. H.

Credo, Mrs. G.
Crimmins, Thomas E.
Critten, Miss Mignon
Crosby, Miss M. E.
Crossman, W. H.
Crossmond, Mrs. L. D.
Crowell, Edward B.
Cuming, James R.
Cummings, Robert J.
Cunningham, Miss E. G.
Cunningham, George
Curren, Mrs. Jno. J.
Curtis, Miss Elizabeth B.

    

124

Curtis, Mrs. G. W.
Curtiss, Miss Sophia

D

Dailey, John L.

Dailey, Miss May Belle
Dalley, Jr., Henry
Dalzell, Mrs. John D.
Darrell, Edward F.
Darrigrand, Alexander A.
Darrigrand, Miss Fannie
Darrigrand, Miss Lucie
Davidson, Miss Clara
Davidson, Peter-

Davison, Clarence B.
Dawson, Benjamin Frederick
Day, Mrs. H. M.

De Coppet, H.

De Coppet, Mrs. H.

De Cordova, Alfred

De Gerlach, Alexander
Dehon, Miss M. H.
Dejonge, Louis

De Luze, Francisco 0.
Dempsey, Daniel

De Ruiz, Mrs. P. B.
Despard, Mrs. C. L.

De Witt, Mrs. George G.
De Witt, William G.

Dick, Mrs. W. B.
Dieterich, Charles F.
Dillar, W. E.

Dimock. Mrs. J. J.

Ditson. Mrs. C. H.
Dittrich, M.D.. Eberhard W.
Dix, Charles B.

Dix, S.T.D., Rev. Morgan
Dodge, Marcellus Hartley
Dodge, Sr., Mrs. W. E.
Dodge, William E.
Doelger. Peter

Doerr, J. B.

Donnelly, Edward

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Strauss, Samuel
Streat, James
Stricker, Henry
Strong, Dr. B. G.
Strong, Theron G.
Strong, Mrs. Theron G.
S‘truthers, Miss Armitage
Sturges, Miss May F.
Sullivan, Mrs. Catharine A.
Sutro, Mrs. Theodore
Sutton, Mrs. Gregory
Suydam, Walter L.
Swalm, Geo. W.
Swords, Miss P. Caroline
Sylvester, Miss Elizabeth
T
Tailer, William H.
Tanenbaum, Moses
Taylor, Jr., Alexander
Taylor, Mrs. Moses
Taylor, Thomas F.
T hebaud, Paul L.
Thomas, Frederic C.
Thomas, Miss Mary L.
Thompson, Edward P.
Thompson, G. A.
Thompson, Miss Rhoda

Thompson, Mrs. Robert M.

Thorne, Miss Phebe Anna
Thorne, Mrs. T. W.
Thouron, Mrs. E. A.
Thurnauer, Felix
Tiedemann, F.

Tilford, Mrs. Charles E.
Tilford, Miss Etta

Tilford, Mrs. Frank
Tilley,'J0hn W.

Timolat, James G.

Toby, Geo. P.
Toedteberg,~Miss Emma
Townsend, Dr. Charles W.
Townshend, John

132

    

Tracy, Dr. E. Clarke
Trask, G. D. S.
Truog, Mrs. Randolph
Tryon, F. M.

Tuck, H.

Tucker, Miss M. B.
Tucker, Mrs. R. S.
Tuckerman, Alfred
Tuckerman, Mrs. Alfred
Tully, Matthew S.
Turney, Winthrop
Tuttle, Miss E.

U

Ulmer, William
Ulrichs, Thomas

Ulshoeffer, W. G.

V

Valentine, Mrs. A. C.
Valentine, R. B.

Van Buren, Mrs. H. M.
Van Der Roest, Geo.

Van Iderstine, F. A.

Van Ingen, Mrs. E. H.
Van Ness, J. Newton
Van Orden, Miss Anna
Van Orden, Miss Mary L.
Van Volkenburgh, Miss S. E.
Vetlin, Miss Louise
Villard, Henry .
Villard, Oswald Garrison
Vogt, Henry

Voislawsky, S. P.
Vollkommer, Joseph
Vorgang, Charles F.

W

Wade, William D.
Walker, Joseph
Wallin, Dr. Mathilda K.
VValser, Dr. William C.
Walsh, Samuel A.

 

 




 

 

 

STATISTICS FOR YEAR ENDING DECEMBER 3t, I898.
The following summary will be found interesting as showing the work accomplished during the year I898 by
kindred societies throughout the United States and Canada. Because ﬁgures are omitted, it does not follow that no

work was accomplished. In many instances reports were not received, and in others the ﬁgures were not available
or no records were kept.

 

 

LOCATION. NAME OF SOCIETY.

@1112qu ‘AJOAOOQI ISBd
panBst ‘SIBuIIue 931121

“.10qu
11101; papuadsns Anna;

-nqune u; 5339.118 11101;
'pazionsap A1

'pamgpsaAuI
pue paAIOOOI SIUIBIduIOQ
'saoum
paAouIaJ 9112qu9 931121
131110 pun sosxoq pQIQBqu
'pOAOIISOp Aiauemnq
‘AIaAooaI used paneSIp
.Io ssapmoq ‘speunue Hews
.Iaqio pun ‘SQIHLU ‘SQSJOH
-odu191 SIBIIIIUB pannsgq

Q)
.21
4.:
.E
'U
Q)
+3
:3
0
0)
U)
0
Li
Q.
U:
Q)
(/2
Cd
U

 

 

 

 

ALABAMA.
Mobile . . . . . Mobile S. P. C. A.* . . . .
Birmingham . . . . Birmingham Humane Society .

ARIZONA.
Tucson . . . . . . S'. P. C. A. of Tucson . .

ARKANSAS.
"Little Rock . . Humane Society of Little Rock, Ark.

CALIFORNIA.
San Francisco . . . The San Francisco S. P. C. A.%

Los Angeles . . . The Los Angeles S. P. C. A. . .

San Jose . . . . . Santa Clara County S. P. C. A.

San Diego . . . . San Diego Humane Society . . . .
Sacramento . . . The Sacramento County Humane Society
Oakland ... OaklandS.P.C.A.. . . . . . . . . . ..
Redlands . . . S. P. C. A. of San Bernardino County, Cal.
Santa Barbara. . Santa Barbara Humane Society . . . . .
Santa Cruz . . Santa Cruz County Humane Society

0 0 n o

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

* Fiscal year.

 

 




 

 

HISTORY.

Prior to the enactment of the statute entitled.“ An Act to
Prevent the Cruel and Improper Treatment of Cattle,” intro—
duced in England in July, 1822,, by the late highly esteemed
Mr. Martin, the general treatment of animals in all countries
of the world was inhuman.

*“ Whether from ignorance, thoughtlessness, heedlessness,
or wanton brutality, animals were subjected to extreme pain
and torture, and their condition failed to excite the commiser—
ation of the public. The best classes of society contained a few
persons only who openly protested against this cruelty, while
the majority were engaged in divers pastimes that caused
much animal suffering; and regarded with scorn and indigna—
tion any appeal made to them in favor of the brutes. Naturally,
the lower and lowest orders were therefore more or less insen—
sible to the claims of lower animals; taking cue as well as ex—
ample from their betters, they also indulged in cruel ’sports
and maintained a right in man to behave toward dumb do—
mestic dependents as he pleased. In fact, the protests of
humane people were silenced by ridicule which came from the
platform, the pulpit, and the senate, as well as from the galled .1
pens of satirists.

“ No better instance can be quoted. of the prevailing indiffer-
ence of men in even the highest social position to the feelings ,
of animals, than the mocking treatment of the Peers when l
Lord Erskine stood up in the House of Lords, in the early
part of the present century (1811), to ask for justice to the

 

 

* From the 74th Annual Report of the Royal Society, London.

 

 




    

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

15o

lower creatures of God. Insensible alike to his moderate de-
mands and appeals for compassion and mercy to all defenseless
animals that man had pressed into his service, the chamber
broke out into open derision when he argued in favor of their
rights to humane treatment. It is said that loud jeers, vulgar
ejaculations, indecorous demeanor, and even- whistling and
cock—crowing were practically the only reply given to the
grand speech of this high—souled man. No wonder, therefore,
that the man in the street ridiculed also, and that callous coach-
men and other persons vented their unrestrained passions on
animals without let or hindrance. The public records of eighty
years ago certainly do show that the friends of the brutes were
few, and their foes many and cruel.

“ The most reckless and savage punishment, and the most
disgusting disregard to the bodily sufferings of animals, were
exhibited unconcealed in the highways and streets daily; fester—
ing sores, discharging wounds, excruciating lameness, and
tottering inﬁrmity called not forth modern devices to evade
public reprobation, and without disguise the'lash and goad
worked their bloody inﬂictions. The uncombined efforts of
a few benevolent individuals were no check to these evils; and
hence it became necessary to establish a society which should
unite the friends of dumb animal creatures.

“ The founders of this Society met on the 16th of June, 1824,
and inaugurated the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals, appointed a committee, and conceived the following
plan of operations:

I. The circulation of suitable tracts gratuitously, or by cheap sale,
particularly among persons intrusted with cattle, such as coach—
men, carters, and drovers. ’

2. The introduction into schools of books calculated to impress on
youth the duty of humanity to inferior animals.

3. Frequent appeals to the public through the press, awakening more
general attention to a subject so interesting, though too much
neglected.

4. The periodical delivery of discourses from the pulpit.‘

The employment of constables in the markets and streets; and

 




 

 

151

6. The prosecution of persons guilty of ﬂagrant acts of cruelty, with

publicity to the proceedings, and announcement of results.

“Steadily working by the above means, bravely bearing
contumely and overcoming difﬁculties, the founders became
stronger year after year: subscribers and co—workers gradually
joined their ranks; and a marked improvement slowly mani~
fested itself in the treatment of animals. Then followed the
distinguished patronage of her Most Gracious Majesty the
Queen, Her Royal Highness the late Duchess of Kent, the
Nobility, and many distinguished Members of both Houses

of Parliament; and in I840, by command of Her Majesty, the '

Society was honored with the preﬁx of ‘ Royal.’ Since that
period its progress has been regular, and its achievements en—
.co:1raging, and now it is regarded as a permanently estab-
lished institution, which has outlived ridicule, and secured for
its founders the esteem of good and practical men of this
and succeeding generation's.

“ During many years the committee advocated the removal
and enlargement of Smithﬁeld Market. Owing to its agency,
bull—baiting, bull—running, cock—ﬁghting, badger—baiting, and
other Wicked sports of a barbarous age have been prohibited
by legal enactments. In 183 5 the Society'obtained an amend—
ment of Martin’s Act; in 184.5 an amendment of the law for
regulating Knackers’ Yards; in 1849 a new and much im—
proved Act for the more effectual Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals; and in 1854 an Act prohibiting the use of dogs as
beasts of draft or burden throughout England; and recently
many other Acts of Parliament.”

The ﬁrst society organized in America for the protection

of animals was The American Society for the Prevention of
‘ Cruelty to Animals, its founder and ﬁrst president being the
late Henry Bergh, to whose noble self-sacriﬁces and untiring
energies the cause of animal protection in this country owes
its origin. The history of the Society, therefore, is practically
an account of the inception and development Of the work of
animal protection in America.

 

 

 

 

 




  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

152

In I862 Mr. Bergh was appointed Secretary of Legation at
St. Petersburg. While in Russia he found himself on several
occasions constrained to interfere in cases of atrocious cruelty,
and but for his ofﬁcial position he would have been exposed to
personal violence. His attention was thus directed to the sub—
ject of humanity to the brute creation, and while in London
on his way home in 1865, he made the acquaintance of the
Earl of Harr’owby, then president of the Royal Society for
the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, who gave him much
valuable infOrmation concerning the operations of that Society
in England. On Mr. Bergh’s arrival at home, he found that
no similar society existed in this country, and he immediately
devoted himself to the establishment of a society for the
United States. At the outset the proposition met with little .
encouragement, and, without the assistance of the press, it
might probably have failed.‘ On February 8, 1866, Mr. Bergh
delivered a lecture in Clinton Hall, in which he pleaded his
cause with such force of argument and such warmth of elo—
quent conviction, that expressions of sympathy and offers of
assistance were freely made by persons in attendance. The
press then lent its powerful aid; the lecture was published in
whole or in part in all the great cities of the country; public
sentiment in favor of Mr. Bergh’s movement was quickly
aroused, and on April IO, I866, “The American Society for
the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals ’3 was incorporated by
the Legislature of the State of New York. Among the orig—
inal'charter members of the Society were many of the most
eminent citizens of the City and State of New York.

On the 19th of April, in the same year, Mr. Bergh secured
the passage by the Legislature of New York of the ﬁrst law
ever enacted in this country for the protection of animals. It
provided that “ every person who shall, by his act or neglect.
maliciously kill, maim, wound, injure, torture, or cruelly beat
any horse, mule. cow, cattle, sheep, or other animal, belonging
to himself or another, shall, upon conviction, be adjudged
guilty of a misdemeanor.”

 

 

 




 

 

153

On the 22d of April a meeting was held in Clinton Hall, for
the purpose of effecting a permanent organization, and at that
meeting the ﬁrst society for the protection of animals in this
country came into active existence. The purpose of the as—
sociation, as set forth in its constitution, was “ to provide ef—
fective means for the prevention of cruelty to animals through-
out the United States, to enforce all laws which then were or
might thereafter be enacted for the protection of animals, and
to secure, by lawful means, the arrest and conviction of all
persons found violating such laws.” As a matter of fact, the
only law of that kind then to be found on the statute books of
the States of the Union was that which had been passed by
the Legislature of New York nine days after the incorporation
of the Society. Within twelve months, however, anOther “ act
for the more effectual prevention of cruelty to animals” was
passed by the Legislature of the same State; and from time to
time additions have been made to it, so that there is now
hardly a phase of cruelty which the Society has not the legal
power to prevent within the boundaries of the State of New
York. The legal deﬁnition of the word “ animal” now in-
cludes every living creature except members of the human
race, and the words “torture ” and “cruelty” include every
act, omission, or neglect whereby unjustiﬁable physical pain,
suffering, or death is caused or permitted.

ORGANIZATION or OTHER SOCIETIES—PROGRESS 01? THE
WORK. ‘

The organization and inﬂuence of The American Society
soon led to the establishment of local societies in all parts of
the Union and in other countries on the American Continent
and elsewhere. The number of local societies incorporated
in the United States is now 209, and in other American nations
II societies have been established and incorporated since 1866,
making a total of 220.

The prevention of cruelty to animals has been the beginning
of many other humane organizations. Thus, in 1874, the So—

 

 

 

 

 

 




  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

154

ciety appeared as prosecutor in a case of cruelty to children,
and it then appeared to be advisable to organize a separate
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children. This was
done in 1875, under the Presidency of Mr. John D. Wright;
Mr. Henry Bergh becoming Vice—President of the new society,
the ﬁrst of its kind in the world, which has done so much and
such effectively good work in the last twenty—four years.

The establishment of these and other organizations has rep—
resented an increased interest in humane work. which has
found a practical expression in the legislation of nearly every
State in the Union. At this date there is not a single State in
which cruelty of any kind is not forbidden by the law, under
stringent penalties for disobedience. - Some defects continue
to exist, of course; but, speaking broadly, it may be said that
the laws on this subject are good. What is now required is
that the great mass of the people shall be educated into sym—
pathy with the humanity of the law. That is now the greatest
work of the Society, and it has constant reason to be grateful
for the assistance and encouragement which it receives from
the press, the pulpit, and the judges of the courts.

The abuses growing out of the then prevailing systems of
dog catching and impounding having become so flagrant as
to demand immediate checking, a bill, entitled “An Act for
the better protection-of lost and strayed animals, and for
securing the rights of the owners thereof,” was prepared by
the President of the Society and introduced into the Legisla'
ture of 1894, providing for the abolishment of the city dog
pound, and empowering the Society to carry out the provisions
of the act. This bill became a law on March 8, 1894 (Chap. I 15,
Laws 1894), and the Society immediately thereupon com-
menced the erection of a Shelter for Animals at 102d street
and East River, provided with every accommodation for the
care of animals and their humane destruction.

In rescuing the community from the reign of the old dog
catchers, the Society earned the gratitude of the dog owners
of New York, and in 1895, at the request of the Mayor of

 

 

 

 




 

 

I55

Brooklyn, the law was amended (Chap. 412, Laws 1895) so as
to include that city as well. A Shelter was then established in
that city, at the corner of Malbone street and N ostrand avenue,
and when Staten Island became a part of the greater City of
New‘York, a Shelter was also opened on Wave street, Staple—
ton, Borough of Richmond.

Much suffering has thus been spared the vagrant, lost, and
abandoned dogs and cats of the city. Unwanted animals are
no longer thrown into the streets, to suffer and die of expos-
ure and starvation, but are given into the care of the Society
and by it mercifully destroyed or placed in good homes.

Through the generosity of kind—hearted people interested in
the work of animal protection, the Society. was enabled, in
189697, to rear a commodious ﬁreproof building as its perma—
nent Headquarters, adequate to the increased needs of the So-
ciety, and supplied with every facility for carrying on the
work to the best advantage.

Meanwhile the practical work is not neglected. The ofﬁcers
of the Society are clothed with ample police powers. They
wear a distinctive uniform and patrol the streets by day and
by night. They have full power to arrest and prosecute offend—
ers against the laws relating to animals. In addition to the
uniformed police, the Society has nearly two hundred special
agents in different parts of the State, clothed with the same
authority and engaged in enforcing the laws for the prevention
of cruelty. In the Boroughs of Manhattan and Brooklyn the
Society has ambulances for the removal of injured, sick, and
disabled animals; appliances for the rescue of drowning ani—
mals and animals which have fallen into excavations; and a
patrol wagon which carries with it the necessary apparatus
and medicines for rendering aid to injured animals in the
streets.

The ofﬁcial organ of the Society is OUR ANIMAL FRIENDS,
a monthly magazine which is devoted to the cause of human—
ity to all living creatures, and which has an extensive and
growing circulation.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

AN APPEAL.

An erroneous idea is entertained by many that this Society
is beyond the necessity for further appeals to our benevolent
and generous—hearted peOple for aid. It receives no appropri—
ations from the city or State, and is dependent upon voluntary
subscriptions, donations, and bequests. The usefulness of the
organization could be largely increased, and the ﬁeld of its
labors greatly extended, if it had a more adequate pecuniary
support. As all know, the objects of the Society are to enforce
the humane laws, to investigate complaints, to care for lost or
abandoned animals, or to destroy them mercifully, to suppress
cruel beating, overloading, and over—driving, and to protect
and assist sick, maimed, and starving animals.

Another prominent object of the Society is the distribution
of humane literature, out of which shall grow not only the kind
treatment of animals, but the higher elevation of our own race.
It may be desirable to state in this connection that during the
past year the Society has published and distributed many
millions of pages of printed matter in the interest of humanity
to animals, and we have had ample reason to know that the
effect has been fully as great as could have been reasonably
hoped for this purpose; and to these ends we earnestly invite
your pecuniary assistance.

The library of the Society contains many valuable books
relating to the brute creation. Contributions of works treating
of animal life are urgently requested. The library is of great
importance and value to the Society in aiding it to carry on the
educational feature which now so largely enters into the work
of animal protection. _

Contributions to the Society will be acknowledged in the
annual report.

 

 




 

 

PUBLICATIONS.

In addition to the monthly magazine of the Society, OUR
ANIMAL FRIENDS, and the manual, “ Kindness to Animals,”
referred to in another part of this report, the Society publishes
a number of leaflets, among which the following may be men-
tioned:

No. I. —“ Ten Rules for the Treatment of Animals.” Gives
valuable hints 1n regard to the treatment conducive to the good
health and happiness of animals.

No. 2.—— What is Docking?” Points out the absurdities
of the practice, and cites the opinions of the best authorities
proving the cruelty of the operation.

No. 3.—“ Fashion’s Cruelty and Bird Protection.” An able
plea by J. A. Allen, Ph.D., for the preservation of bird life,
now so wantonly and cruelly sacriﬁced in the interest of vain
fashion.

No. 4—“ The Dishorning of Cattle an Act of Cruelty.” The
cruelty and fallacy of dishorning graphically set forth in a
resume of the famous English dishorning case.

No. 5.—-“ Hints for the Dog Days.” Dispels the many ig-
norant and false ideas in regard to rabies and hydrophobia,
and gives valuable information concerning the dog, its ner—
vous disorders, and its care.

These leaﬂets ale intended for gratuitous distribution, and
will be forwarded to any addiess on receipt of postage, as fol—
lows, per packet of too: No. I, six cents, No. 2, ten cents, Nos.
3 zand 4, twenty-ﬁve cents, and No. 5, ten cents. '

Title XV I of the Penal Code relating to cruelty to animals,
is also published by the Society In pamphlet form, and a copy
VV 111 be forwarded to am one intelested 1n the work.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

HOW TO PROCEED AGAINST
OFFENDERS.

If a case of. cruelty to animals comes under your observation,
call a policeman and have the offender arrested. The law of
the State of New York makes it mandatory on the part of a

police ofﬁcer to arrest and take before a court or magistrate

having jurisdiction any person offending against any of the
laws enacted for the protection of animals.

In the absence of a police officer, ascertain, if possible, the
name and address of the offender, the name, address, and num-
ber marked on the vehicle, if any, and make a note of the time
and place where the offense occurred. Then immediately re—
port the circumstance, in person or by letter, to the Society,
giving full particulars as to the nature of the offense. The
name of the complainant will not be divulged, if so desired.
It is also important to obtain, if possible, the names and ad—
dresses of witnesses to the cruelty. The Society will then take
up the case, and endeavor to deal with it in such a manner as
to prevent a re—occurrence of the offense, and the offender will
be punished according to law if the circumstances warrant it.
It is not always advisable to punish the offender to the full ex—
tent of the law, as cruelty to an animal is frequently the result
of. ignorance or thoughtlessness, and a caution or word of ad-
vice often has the required effect.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

To t/zose who may feel disposed to dmate 49/ W ILL to

t/re oerzeoolerit oojeots of this Society, t/zefot/ozoiwg

is submitted as a form .°
Form of Bequest of Personal Property.

I give and bequeath unto “The American Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals,” a corporation created by
and existing under the laws of the State of New York, the sum
of ................................ dollars, to be applied to
the uses of said corporation.

Form oﬁDem'se of Real Property.

I give and devise unto “ The American Society for the Pre-
vention of Cruelty to Animals," a corporation created by and
existing under the laws of the State of New York, all [here
insert description of property], together with all the appurte-
nances, tenements, and hereditaments thereunto belonging or
in any wise appertaining, to have and to hold the same unto
the said corporation, its successors and assigns, forever.

 

 

 




 

 

iv

 

 

ur-flﬁwu,

,.
. n- o 'u‘.‘, -
.,-, y; . r

 

 

 

 




