 

 

ANIMALTH

EWORL U"

 

THE OFFICIAL MAGAZINE OF THE RSPCA

 

 

Vol LIII No 7 New Series

JULY 1958

PRICE FOURPENCE

6s. per annum. Post Paid

 

 

OIL PﬂllllTlllN

 

Black, almost unrecognizable, this oil-polluted guillemot
was washed up on the north-west coast of England

On the 26th of this month the International
Convention for the Prevention of the Pollution
of the Sea by Oil comes into force. It provides for
the establishment of zones within which certain
oils should not be discharged. The most recent
country to ratify the Convention was France, and
this brought the number of adherents to the total
of ten required for ratiﬁcation. The United
Kingdom was the ﬁrst to ratify on May 6, 1954,
and was followed in 1956 by Mexico, May 10;
Sweden, May 24; the German Federal Republic,
June 11; Denmark, November 26; and Canada,
December 19. During 1957 Norway ratiﬁed on
January 26; Irish Republic on February 13, and
Belgium on April 16.

We give information obtained from the Annual
Report for 1957 of The International Committee
for Bird Preservation, British Section. This report
shows that although the ten countries that have
adhered to the convention thereby set an example
to other maritime powers they cannot alone solve
the problem, and it is of the utmost urgency that
other countries should likewise support this
international measure.

The USA has not yet signed the Conven—
tion, but strong efforts are being made to rouse
public opinion in America to the realization of
the menace of oil pollution.

Manuals

A comprehensive Manual on the Avoidance of
Pollution of the Sea by Oil is issued by the
British Ministry of Transport and can be obtained
from HM Stationery Ofﬁce, price one shilling.
It contains an introduction and two main sections.
Part 1 deals with prevention of spillage, leakages
and accidental discharges with regard to (a) all
ships and (b) tankers. The second part concerns
the disposal of oil—contaminated water and oil
residues. A summary of the Oil in Navigable
Waters Act, 1955, and the Regulations and
Orders made thereunder is given.

A chart provided shows the United Kingdom
Prohibited Zone, which is greater in extent than
that laid down by the Convention.

Other maritime countries who subscribe to the
Convention have issued Manuals, or are in the
process of doing so.

Under the Oil in Navigable Waters Act, 1955,
Regulations were made and came into force on
September 8, 1956, making it an offence for a
British ship to discharge persistent waste oil into
Continued overleaf

 

GIN ABOLISHED

As has already been reported, it becomes an
offence after July 31 this year to use the steel—
toothed trap.

The abolition comes under Section 8 of the
Pests Act, 1954. This gives the Minister of Agriv
culture power to name approved spring traps.
Those he has listed as permissible Operate in
such a way as to catch and kill in one action.
The gin was always criticized because it simply
held the trapped rabbit in agony until it died or
was despatched by the trapper.

Anyone using a gin trap for catching rabbits
after July 31 will be liable to a ﬁne not exceeding
£20 for the ﬁrst offence and £50 for subsequent
offences.

 




 

 

 

 

GOODS
PLASTIC BADGES

LIST 0N APPLICATION

THE UNIVERSAL BUTTON CO. LTD.

1-9 Birkbeck Street, Bethnal Green, LONDON, E. 2

Telephone: BlShopsgate 5750 Telegrams: ‘Unibutco Edo’

FLAG DAY
XII

 

 

 

SPANIEL DOG COLLECTIONS

In order to draw attention to the earning capacity
of the ‘Spaniels’, we hav e published details of col;
lections in these boxes during the past twelve
months The popularity of the models and their
value to our Branches have now been so well
established that we do not propose in future to
give details of all collections. As so many boxes
are in use, it would make too great a demand on
the space available We shall, however, be
pleased to mention any collectioh in a ‘Spaniel’
box which is of outstanding interest.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

TEMPLE COX CAPTIVE
BOLT SLAUGHTERING
GUNS

Specially recommended and used by the RSPCA

THREE MODELS—ALL SILENT IN
ACTION

‘UNIVERSAL' for all animals
‘SMALLS’ for all small animals
‘MARK 6’ for all animals. Designed for heavy

use in large Abattoirs and Freezing Works

TEMPLE COX DEVELOPMENT CO. LTD
HIGH STREET, BROMLEY, KENT

 

 

 

 

SERVICE FOR ALL ANIMAL LOVERS

Wednesday, October I, I958

ST JAMES’S CHURCH, PICCADILLY,
LONDON

(by kind permission of the Rector, the Rev J. S. Brewis)

Preacher: The Rev Canon Leonard Llewellyn, L.Th.,

Member of the RSPCA Council

Soloist: Miss ISOBEL BAILLIE

Service begins: 6.30 pm.

ALL ARE INVITED

St James’s Church is very near Piccadilly Circus

 

SIMPLE
SAIL.

NO TICKETS NECESSARY

 

SURE ille@ “CASE-III Xi?

CAPTIVE BOLT 915101
FOR ALL ANIMALS

     

ACCLES AND SHELVOKE LTD ' BIRMINGHAM ' 6 ENGLAND
5456

 

 

 

 

  
 




 

 

July 1958

THE ANIMAL WORLD 81

PARLIAMENTARY NEWS

Deer

MR N. MCLEAN (on April 29) asked the Secretary
of State for Scotland:

(1) whether, in view of the fact that there is in—
creasing damage done by red deer to hill farming
interests in certain districts in the Highlands and
also that the numbers of cases reported of
poaching red deer or the wounding of red deer by
gangs of poachers gives cause for disquiet, he will
now, as a result of his further consideration of the
matter, say what he intends to do; and if he will
make a statement;

(2) whether, in View of the fact that a basis for
agreement had been reached on legislative
measures for the protection and control of red
deer as long ago as the autumn of 1956 by farm—
ing, sporting and landowning interests in con—
junction with the Nature Conservancy, he will
now, as a result of his further consideration, in
troduce legislation in order to put a Stop to the
serious damage caused by red deer to hill farming
interests in certain districts in the Highlands and
in order to stop the continued suffering to deer
wounded by gangs of poachers.

SIR D. ROBERTSON asked the Secretary of State
for Scotland if, having read the ROSSvShiI‘e Police
report on deer poaching, a copy of which had

een sent to him, he would, as a result of his further

consideration, immediately bring in a Bill to pro—
tect deer from the brutality and suffering inr
ﬂicted on them by gangs whose inhuman methods
maim and wound many more deer than they kill.

MR JOHN MACLEOD asked the Secretary of
State for Scotland what action he now proposes
to take to deal with the control of deer in the
Highlands of Scotland, as a result of his further
consideration of this matter.

MR MACLAY: The Government are progressing
with their examination of the proposals put for—
ward by the interests concerned for legislative
measures to strengthen the law on the poaching
of deer and to ensure effective conservation and
control of deer. The subject has difﬁcult aspects,
but I hope to be able to make a statement
within the next month or two.

Oil Pollution

The anxiety of Members of Parliament about oil
pollution is reflected in Questions. In answer to a
question recently from Mr Ridsdale, who asked
whether any maritime Powers using British ports
had not yet signed the Convention. Mr Neave
said that indeed there were. He added that he
had not any information about their ratiﬁcation
but that soon after the Convention came into
force it was proposed to approach them to see
what could be done to get them to ratify.

 

Horses in. the Bull ﬂing

(Reprinted from RIDING, with acknowledgements)

SIR,

Those who write enthusiastically about the
Spanish bull—ﬁght—its thrills, its bravery, its
beauty, its choreOgraphy, its art—pass over as
llghtly as possible the part played by the old,
Worn—out horses who are indispensable actors in
the bloody drama. Whatever may be the effect
On the spectators of the postures and pirouettes
of the lithe, young toreros clad in brightly col—
.Oufed silk and gold, by no stretch of imagination
13 1t possible for them to see any beauty in the
part these wretched horses are made to play.

.Before General Primo de Rivera, the Spanish

lctator (who was no aﬁcionado—supporter, or
faI1~of the bull—ﬁght), decreed that horses in the
bu l—ring must be protected by a padded apron,
t EV Were mercilessly exposed to the onslaught
of the bull. Those who have witnessed a present
day bull—ﬁght, and have seen how often the bull’s
ems come in contact with the protective pad'
ing, can imagine the sort of scenes that took
place before Primo de Rivera issued his decree

‘humanizing’ the bull—ﬁght. The callous spilling of -
blood and entrails disgusted foreigners, and
Spanish ladies would decorously hide their faces
behind their fans.

The change was for the good, and aﬁcionados
were incensed because of the difference this
brought about in the conduct of the corrida. This
and certain abuses which came into practice
caused interest in bullaﬁghting to fall away and it
looked like the beginning of the end. But there is
one unfortunate thing about it: the suppression
of the most horrible part of the bull—ﬁght has
made it possible for foreigners to ﬂock to the
corridas as they do today. It is they who are con—
tributing greatly to giving the Spanish bull—ﬁght
a fresh lease of life; and their ﬁnancial aid is very
much appreciated by the promoters.

Although there is no comparison with what
the horse suffered formerly, the presentrday bull.
fight is by no means without danger to the horse,
and it is harrowing to any spectator not carried

 




 

 

 

July 1958

THE ANIMAL WORLD 75

THE RSPCA AT WORK

 

MAY I 958
RSPCA INSPECTORS

2,198 Complaints of cruelty investigated.
72 Offenders ﬁned.
37 Persons guilty of minor acts of cruelty cautioned in writing.
743 Registered cautions were administered by Inspectors.

CLASSIFICATION OF CONVICTIONS
HORSES—Working in an unﬁt state, neglecting
CATTLE—Neglecting, injuring with missile
PIGS—Neglecting, exposing for sale in an unﬁt state .
SHEEP—Neglecting

DOGS—Neglecting, shooting dnd wounding, kicking,
killing in improper manner, etc. 26

CATS—Neglecting, shooting and wounding, killing in
improper manner . .

BOWLS—Neglecting
SWAN—Injuring with missile
PIGEONS—Maliciously killing
RABBIT—Injuring .
BUDGERIGARS———Neglecting

HAW-x]

v—‘r—tUJNN'Q

OFFENCES UNDER THE PROTECTION OF BIRDS ACT, 1954:
Being in possession of recently taken birds 3
Conﬁning birds in small cages
Setting spring trap

r—I-{k

VARIOUS OEFENCES:
Steel—tooth trap—set in open
Laying poison
Permitting in offences
Aiding and abetting in an offence

TOTAL NUMBER OF CONVICTIONS...

\]
[Nl HWNr—

During MAY 1958, Magistrates, at the request of the RSPCA,
disqualiﬁed SIXTEEN persons from owning a dog or holding a
dog licence Disqualiﬁcations were as follows:

TWO for 10 years; NINE for 5 years; ONE for 3 years; TWO
for 2 years; TWO for 12 months

Total number of COMPLAINTS from January Ist 9,420
Total number of CONVICTIONS from January Ist 342
Total number of CAUTIONS from January 1st 3,407

HEADQUARTERS CLINICS

No. of animals handled:
Cats 4,260 Dogs 3,706 Misc. 1,033 Total 8,999
No. of animals given emergency ﬁrst aid: 2,306

PUTNEY CONVALESCENT WARD

No. of animals handled: .
D088 62 Cats 6 Misc. 12 Total 80

N 10 HT STAFF

No. of calls received: 1,245

No. of animals given emergency ﬁrst aid: 14

No. of animals treated by Veterinary Surgeon: 164

No. of animals rescued: 13

No. of inspection complaints: 15

Miles covered by ambulance in respect of urgent calls: 2,896

NORTH WALES UNIT

First aid cases:
Cats 42 Dogs 62 Misc. 4 Total 108
No. of animals handled by Unit:
Cats 293 Dogs 131 Misc. 7 Total 431
No. of miles covered by Unit: 2,300

DEVON 8L CORNWALL UNIT

First aid cases:

Cats 36 Dogs 59 Misc. 7 Total 102
No. of animals handled by Unit:

Cats 88 Dogs 78 Misc 12 Total 178
No. of miles covered by Unit: 1,276

SOUTH WALES MOBILE UNIT

First aid cases:
Cats 44 Dogs 147 Misc. 21 Total 212
No. of animals handled by Unit.
Cats 289 Dogs 197 Misc 21 Total 507
No. of miles covered by Unit: 1,078

AWARDS

CASES CONSIDERED 38

BRONZE MEDALS 4

BARS TO BRONZE MEDALS 2

CERTIFICATES .. . 9

FILMS

RSPCA FILMS BORROWED 119

SHOWINGS 213
EDUCATION

LECTURES TO SCHOOLS . . 206

LECTURES TO OTHER YOUTH ORGANIZATIONS 5

RECORDS FOR 1957

INSPECTION

COMPLAINTS 24,942

CONVICTIONS 852

CAUTIONS 8,596

HEADQUARTERS CLINICS
No. of animals handled: 135,570

NIGHT STAFF
No. of calls: 15,671

 




 

 

July 1958

HORSES TO THE CONTINENT

The latest return issued by the Minister of Aori—
culture, Fisheries and Food shows that, for the
quarter ended March 31, 163 horses and ponies
were shipped to the Continent of Europe
through these ports: London, including Tilbury,
27 (to Belgium); Folkestone, 126 (to France);
Harwich, 9 (to Germany); Hull, 1 (to Norway).

These animals went after examination. Another
60 horses and 17 ponies went to Europe after
being exempted from veterinary examination.
Exemption is granted where valuable horses
reach the port with adequate veterinary certiﬁ—
cates from their place of origin.

 

TRACTORS OUST HORSES

Between 1939 and 1956 tractors on British farms
rose from 60,000 in number to 436,000. Farm
horses declined from 1,084,000 to 147,000.

 

 

Phato] [Mr F. W. Maynard
RETIRED '

Pensioners at the RSPCA Home of Rest for Horses,
Ningwood, Isle of Wight

 

BRANCH NEWS

In an effort to provide as much space as possible
fOr items of general interest—including reports on
the work done for animals by the Society—W6
shall restrict the Branch News feature of Animal

orld to a summary of fund—raising efforts
Organized in the branches and auxiliaries. News
of all sorts will continue to interest the Editor,
and the Council of the Society wishes to assure all
Voluntary ofﬁcials and workers of the Society that
all the efforts they undertake for the RSPCA are
d€eply valued.

THE ANIMAL WORLD 1 s3

@hz'tuary

With sincere regret we report the death of Miss
Pike, hon sec, Fornham All Saints, and Mr
A. G. Thompson, a former Chief Superintendent.

 

BRANCH NEWS

(Fund-raising eﬂorts are reported under the name of the Branch.
Wherever possible, we give the place where the function is held,
the type of function, and the name of the organizer 0r organi-
zers, followed by the sum raised.)

 

A display of exhibition photographs (supplied by Head-
quarters) at the home of Mr and Mrs W. A. ]. Levering,
llfracombe aux co hon secs. This display has aroused interest
to such effect that during one summer the box shown
raised over £50

Buckinghamshire Winslow, jumble sale, Miss Moore (aux
hon sec), £31 65. 9d.
Cleveland and Tees-Side Guisborough, jumble sale, Mrs
Jefferies (aux hon sec), £20 11s.
Devon—~North Whist drive and bring and buy sale, Mr and
Mrs Walters and Miss Shelmerdine (Bideford aux hon sec),
£8.
Dorset—South Piddlehinton, church collection, £1 19s. 6d.
Steepleton, animal service conducted by Dr Donald
Omand, £2 10s.
Essex—North—West Whist drive, Miss Everitt (clinic hon
sec), £4.
Jumble sale, Mrs Cooke (Braintree aux hon sec), £5 for
clinic funds.
Hampshire—South, and Portsmouth Farlington, Whist
drive, Mrs E. Hunter (aux hon sec), £16 153.
Hull and East Riding Walkington, bring and buy sale
jumble sale and tombola, Mrs N. B. S. Birch, £75. ’
Lincolnshire—~South, and Grantham Spalding, musical and
coffee evening, Mrs F. G. Heard (aux hon sec), £11 11s.
Norfolk—Mid and Norwich Attleborough, jumble sale, Mrs
Wetton (aux hon sec), £18. ‘
Northumberland West The Forum, show, Mr M. Iley
(branch hon sec), £67 10s.
Surrey—Guildford and District Guildford, sale, Mrs Mer-
ritt (aux hon sec), opened by Mrs Lawrence Powell. Mrs
Roscoe and Mrs Burton’s stall made £114. Total raised £430.
Thorne and District Division (Doncaster Branch) Thorne
bring and buy stall, Mrs Taylor '(divison co hon sec), £11 123:
Warrington and District Jumble sale, Warrington com-
mittee ladies, £42 8s. 6d.
Wolverhampton and District Cannock, colfee morning, Mrs
Harvey (aux hon sec), £6 63.
Yorkshire—Bridlington, Malton and District Bridlington
fashion show, £31 3s. ’

 




 

 

July 1958

THE ANIMAL WORLD 4 77

 

GUIDE DOGS

Sir Arthur Willert, Council Member, reviewing
FIRST LADY OF THE SEEING EYE by Morris Frankand
Blake Clark (published by The World’s Work
(1913) Ltd), pp. 224, price 155., writes:

The First Lady of the Seeing Eye (Windmill
Press) tells of Guide Dog pioneering in the
United States. It is an impressive and moving
story of what dogs can do for the welfare of
human beings and of what a brave and determined
man has done towards the establishment of Guide
Dogs across the Atlantic. '

Morris Frank of Nashville, Tennessee, lost as a
boy the sight of ﬁrst one eye and then the other

in successive accidents. He entered manhood -

helpless and discouraged. Then he heard of a
school in Switzerland for guide dogs and their
blind masters. He made his way to it feeling, and
often being treated, like a piece of living luggage.
He returned a triumphant and hopeful man thanks
to Buddy his Alsatian bitch and the co—operative
trust and love that had grown up between them
at the school.

The book is, indeed, a thrilling ‘success story’.
Buddy’s alertness in the face of the unexpected is
as astounding as the master’s persistence is ad—
mirable. Helped by a generous friend he founds
his own school on the lines of the Swiss one. It
prospers. He interests the rich and inﬂuential.
He wins privileges for guide dogs on the railways,
in restaurants, in hotels, etc.——and the ‘dog line’
in'the United States is often pretty strictly drawn.

The book contains some interesting generalizav
tions. Bitches are better than dogs; Alsatians the
best breed. In fact Morris Frank seems to rely
upon that breed entirely.

A. w.

DOG LEFT IN CAR BOOT DIED

A farmer and cattle dealer was ﬁned £5, with
£10 45. costs, at Tiverton, for causing unneceSv
sary suffering to a Sheepdog by conﬁning it in the
boot of his car. He pleaded guilty.

A solicitor prosecuting for the RSPCA said
that between midday and 12.30 pm. on a certain
day, a woman heard a noise coming from the
boot of a vehicle in a car park. The boot was una
locked but she was unable to open it.

Fetched Police

She fetched the police, and when the boot was
Opened it was found that the dog was dead. The
car had been left in the sun, and the metal of the
boot was so hot that it was hardly possible to bear
a hand on it.

The boot was so constructed that the dog
could not stand upright, and the police were of

N OBLESSE‘OBLI GE

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

PM DAILY SKETCH - lbﬂ’APR/Lﬂm

the opinion that it must have experienced great
torture before it died. Death was due to heat
stroke, according to a veterinary surgeon.

The defendant, in court, said: ‘I am indeed
sorry about this. It is a great shock to me to lose
the dog because he is a great friend. I have had
him seven or eight years, and it was like losing
my right arm.’ There was air in the boot, and the
dog was always willing to jump in. ‘I am being
prosecuted for forgetfulness. I forgot to let the
dog out. I would not have had this happen for
anything.’ (B. 2525; Chief Inspector Thwaites)

 

The RSPCA asks readers to do all in their
power to prevent the growing cruel practices of
carrying dogs in the unventilated boots of cars
and leaving dogs in parked cars which have all
the windows closed.

 




July 1958

THE ANIMAL WORLD 79

 

INSPECTOR CRAWLED THROUGH DRAIN T O RESCUE EWE
Water reached his Chin

Among recent RSPCA awards for gallantry in the
rescue of animals are two silver medals: one to
Senior Inspector Nairn and the other to Police
Constable R. Preest.

It was two o’clock one afternoon when
Senior Inspector Nairn received a call from the
police about a ewe trapped in an underground
drain at Cocklake, near Wedmore, Somerset.
The police had not been able to locate the animal
and asked for the help of the Senior Inspector,
who hurried at once to join in the rescue work.

The entrance to the drain measured about 2 ft.
by 20 inches. Wool hanging on the rough stone—
work showed where the animal had entered. A
hundred yards from this spot the Senior Inspector
and Police Constable Sheldon dug out a roadside
drain cover. Inside, there was no evidence that
the ewe had penetrated as far as this.

The Senior Inspector crawled through the
drain, with a torch held in his mouth, but could
not see the animal.

Grave Risk

Re—examining the entrance, he decided that with
care he could get into the drain—in which there
was running water—and crawl along on his
stomach. The police constable and onlookers
thought this involved a grave risk.

Despite this, the Senior Inspector lashed a
rope round his waist, and,‘once again holding
Elbe torch in his mouth, entered the drain head

rst.

Water was six inches deep, and as he pro—
gressed he saw that in places the walls of the drain
were caving in. A careless movement would perv
haps have brought down the sides. In places the
water was a foot deep and the Senior Inspector’s
chin was submerged.

Zig—zag Course
After travelling seventy yards—for the rest of the
way on a zig—zag course—he located the ewe in a
small recess. "As he pushed past her to drive her
baCk, the animal began to struggle, and the
Senior InspeCtor was alarmed lest it should diS'
turb the roof and wall—with dire consequences.

By this time he was exhausted and hardly
able to breathe. He made the terrifying journey

ack to the entrance, where he ﬁnally arrived
eKilausted, Wet, muddy and blue with cold.

}S knees, elbows and forearms were covered
Wltl‘l cuts and abrasions; he was taken to a
nearby house and given brandy.

He then told workmen precisely Where the ani—
mal Was located—in the recess—and they dug
Into the drain. When the hole was Wide enough,
t e Senior Inspector went down and as the hole

 

f «*1;
Photos] [By courtesy of The Star
RSPCA Oﬂicer Brian Kneebone lowered himself down a
IOO-ft. drop torescue a cat trapped on a ledge in a derelict
building at 4 Park Crescent, London, Wl. When he reached
the ledge on which the cat was strandedﬂthe'jjnervous}l cat
darted up a chimney, but after patient coaxing descended.
The cat was returned to his owner none the worse for the
adventure

 

was ﬁve or six yards short of the ewe’s location,
he had to do more crawling.

She was eased forward on a rope and when she
reached the hole Senior Inspector Nairn lifted
her gently out. The animal was in lamb. She was
taken back to the farm, where the Senior Inv
spector recommended that she should be put in
warm straw until she recovered.

Dog Rescued from Mine

The other rescuer to receive the RSPCA silver
medal recently—Police Constable R. Preest—
rescued a dog from a disused mine at Abbotts—
wood, Ruspidge, near Cinderford.

The dog could be heard barking in the shaft,
reputed to be the most dangerous one in the area.
Its actual depth is unknown and incomplete de—
scents only have been made, bad air in the lower
depths endangering life.

Senior Inspector Adams had rescue ropes,
which he was expert in handling, and a volunteer

 




 

 

 

 

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

v . . 1M.” H _ . . . y .. .
. .hr ,
,a , , _ .
D. ‘
' a . . ,
A. r
g . . . , ‘
m M
_ O #
‘ h V a
‘ , t . i
C . a
_. a , ‘ M
F. . ﬁ 4 . . _
VI . w ‘
S . , ‘
r , e .\
1 , t . v
r r ;
"v.1 _ . u ,
. a 7 .
WM. w. [ .V.
, H
D . ..
E 4 ..MV
M
, ., T ‘
. W .
, , C ‘
-
“ F
L
. E
no \ S
. . _.,. , A
v I _ a. .
y 7 ‘ {
v
. . ls...i .. 9.5.x ,. . . ..nflllz. Eva. .f I; 1 {mini 5,4! {Lu ‘ sxl‘3f4r41»ll.nt..lll.l\|‘ . ail?! ‘ - w _ ‘
“WWW: I, . \ .. . .‘ V ‘ . A . , , V . ,
- // .. V , . , 4 . ‘ , . ... . . , . . H ‘ . 2 . ,
(#1-. :- J l . -7 - ‘ I. . . 1:: 1‘ I, M. , , . ‘ .r - , fill a i. i ‘zl‘c‘llvlyu? ..... 91!} ‘ . . L

 

 




 

ROYAL SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS
Founded 1824 Headquarters: 105 Jermyn Street, London, S.W,1

PATRONS

HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN
HER MAJESTY QUEEN ELIZABETH, THE QUIiIiN MOTHER
HER ROYAL HIGHNESS PRINCESS ALICE COUNTPSS OI: ATIILONE
HER ROYAL HIGHNESS PRINCESS ARTHUR OI: CONNAIIGHT

PRESIDENT
SIR MALCOLM SAROENT, IION HI), I) MI'S, IRIM, IRS-A
VICE-PRESIDENTS

THE EARL OF SHAFTESBURY, KP, PC LT-COL SIR THOMAS MOORI-i, IIAR'I‘, (III, MP ANTHONY GREENWOOD, ESQ, MP

 

THE COUNCIL

Chairman: LT-COL J. (‘. IOI'RWOOI), JP, 'l'l)
Vice-Chairman: MRS \I'AIIIS I’()\\'I:R, JP

 

 

AGIUS, THE REV DOM AMBROSE, 088, MA *EVANS. MRS DAVID, WA . I'I II I I I I, IIII RI IION THE EARL
AILWYN, THE RT HON LORD GALWAY, 'IHI: DOWAOIR \ IS('()l'\lI.\S ‘I’RIH‘H ARI), mix I)_
*ALLIBERT, MRS *GARI)NILR, ”()N JULII‘I l“|(.\| 1|{\\ ‘ R. [In I'SQ. MA, PH D
*ALSOP, ALDERMAN A. J., FRCA, FCIS, JP HARVEY, MRS J. w.. MA .R” ( .k‘ H. ”H W)
ANDERSON, L. K., ESQ, MRCVS, DVM HOBHOUSE. 1- 8.. 1250 \IIII I . \\ . .\.. ISO, MA, JI’
*BELL, G. R., ESQ HOWELL. BASIL |’-. W). WW w I I , \I In RNIAN 'I'HI‘L REV PRERENDARY L. J. B.
BERTIE OF THAME, THE RT HON THE VISCOUNTESS *HUNTER, MISS w” ‘ m. mm H; (HEREFORD)
BRANSOM, MISS L. G., FRSA LEE. MRS In. M. ‘ I \I I . \1l{\, \1\
BYWATER, H. E., ESQ, MRCVS LLEWELLYN, 'l'Hli RI-.\‘ (‘ANHN IIOVARI), I. III "\\ \l IziRI), \IRS I)I:SH()R()U(iH
COPE, MRS JOHN LONGMAN. MR5 W- W \RI)\, (‘I )l I )NIL, (Il', (‘M(i, 035
COTTERELL, LT—COL J. M. v., OBE MACNAGIII‘ISN, MR A. n, I” H ‘ H mm. ”0‘ m,
DORCHESTER, LT-COL THE RT HON LORD, OBE, JP *MCPHAIL, MRS Al [SUN II- I l 1 IA, MII, ('H H \\ II I I R I, Slit ARIHUR‘ KBF.
*DOWDELL, MRS M. R. MOORE, III-(‘UL SIR HIOMAS. II-\Rl, (III, MP ’\\ l\( III \HR, I-. 1.. ESQ, Iicls, Fss
ESTCOURT-OSWALD, MISS AGNES, MB (LOND), DPH *Denotcs Brunch chrcgcntuliyc \VIIUII I-Y, SIR CHARLES, GBE, KCMG, CMG, MC

(CANTAB), DOMS

 

OFFICE BEARERS APPOINTED BY THE ('()I'T\'('ll.

Hon Treasurer—HARRY WHITE, ESQ, FCA ('hiof Secretary II HIV II \I I , ISQ
DeDUtY H0“ Treasurer—FI- H- RIECKa ESQ Assistant Secretaries I). \. I . t‘AMM, I-ZSQ, BA
Hon Medical Ofﬁcer—A. N. CRAWFORD, ESQ, FRCSI \l I -\\ .|()|\'I"R, I-‘SQ
Bankers—MESSRS COUTTS AND CO, STRAND, LONDON Legal Secroum R. \Il RR \\ , I St)
_ (‘hiof Veterinary ()Iiiccr I 'I'—I:OI. I). I. C. TENNANT, MRCVS, MRSH
AudItors—MESSRS VINIiY, I’RK'I: ANI) (i()()I)YI:/\R, I'IIARII RI I) AH'OI \I A\ I \
Telegrams—WHITEHALL 7177 Telephone—Whitehall 7177

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Ra Sop. COA.

 

 

FORM OF BEQUEST FOR NATIONAL WORK

To those benevolent individuals who may wish to become l‘enefactors by Will to this
Society, the following form is respectfully suggested:——

‘I bequeath to ROYAL SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF (:RI’IELTY TO ANIMALS, fOT the
general purposes of that Society, the sum of £ ........................................................................... , free of all duties
payable at my death and the receipt Of the Treasurer for the time beingI of the said Society Shall
be a suﬁicient discharge for such legacy.’ (If it should be desired that the legacy should be expended

on some ' - - 1‘
particular phase of the SOCIety’s work, a direction to this effect may be added to the fOTm

0f bequest.)

 

CAUTION

By the A t f ' ‘ -
C O 7 William IV and IVICtoria, cap. 26, all Wills or Codicils must he in Writing signed by the

Testator,

and attested b tw - .
Y O Wltnesses 1“ the presence of the Testator and of each other.

 

 

 

 

 

 

I




 

 

74 THE ANIMAL WORLD

July 1958

 

OIL POLLUTION. Continued from previous page .
the sea within a thousand miles of our Atlantic
coastline. In 1957 further Regulations were made
under the Act, and were laid before Parliament on
August 8 to come into force on July 1, 1958.
These apply to British ships not being tankers,
and require them to be properly ﬁtted With equip—
ment for the purpose of preventing or reducrng
discharges of oil and oily mixtures into the sea.

These Regulations of course can be applied
solely to British ships and foreign ships can only
be subjected to the Oil of Navigable Waters Act
if offending within United Kingdom territorial
waters.

Survey

Since 1951, the Royal Society for the Protection
of Birds, in conjunction with the British Section
of the International Committee for Bird Preserva’
tion, has organized a survey of oiled birds round
the coasts of the British Isles. A form was sup—
plied by the RSPB on which observers were
asked to note the numbers of oiled birds seen,
with date and details of species when possible. An
interim report based on a quick examination of
the returns received by the RSPB and informa’
tion obtained from the RSPCA, various corres’
pondents, and statements in the Press, shows
that, in 1957, the amount of oil pollution was
light. The survey also appears to show that
January and February were comparatively bad
months for oil pollution, improving during
March and April and deteriorating again slightly
in October to become bad again in November and
December, particularly in the last two weeks.
During the National Conference of the Council
for the Preservation of Rural England which was
held at Hastings, October 17—19, an address was
given by Mr J. Callaghan, MP, on Oil Pollution

 

Cast ashore—helpless—an oil-

polluted guillemot

of the Sea. In summing up his views Mr Callaghan
stated:

‘The present position is that nations owning
just onevhalf of the world’s tanker tonnage have
agreed not to dump oily filth into the sea less than
1,000 miles out in the Atlantic, North of the Bay
of Biscay. The other half of the world’s ships,
and especially those of the United States, Liberia,
Panama, Italy and Holland. which have the largest
ﬂeets, are still free to sail up to our three—mile
limit and pollute our waters without committing
a legal offence. The only thing that stops them is a
gentleman’s agreement made twenty years ago
that they would not dump oily waste within
fifty miles of our coasts. But the state of our
beaches shows that this gentleman’s agreement is
honoured in the breach rather than in the
observance. -

Work Needed

‘It has taken six years‘ work by the Co—ordi—
nating Advisory Committee on Oil Pollution to
get so far; and our work is still only a quarter
done.

‘We must awaken public opinion in overo
seas countries so that they will bring pressure
on their governments.

‘We ask the oil companies who have been co;
operative in this matter to take a further step and
charter only those tankers that accept the Oil
Pollution Convention. That would quickly result
in some countries coming into line.

‘We must continue to press for the complete
prohibition of discharge of oil into the sea at all
times and in all places. The aim was well set out
in a Resolution agreed to by the thirtyrtwo nations
attending the International Conference in London

in 1954. They agreed that:
The only entirely effective method known .Of
preventing oil pollution is the complete CWOld'
ance of the discharge of persistent oils into the
sea, and measures are possible which woul
enable this to be substantially achieved.’

RSPCA Action

The RSPCA has fought against the evils of 011
pollution for many years. As long ago as 1931 the
late Sir Cooper Rawson, MP, then a Member 0
the Society’s Council, introduced a Bill to 69’
force the installation of oil separators on all Oil’
carrying and oil’burning vessels over a certaln
tonnage. .

The Society is represented at the present time
on the Coordinating Advisory Committee on 01
Pollution of the Sea, of which Mr J. Callaghan,
MP, some of whose comments are quoted in t 3
foregoing report, is Chairman.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

76 THE ANIMAL WORLD July1958

 

 

SAVED BY KlNDNESS

Pictures by courtesy of Gloucestershire Echo]

 

but the Gloucestershire—East and Cheltenham Branch persuaded the police to give them two weeks in which to catch her.

Suspicious of mankind after three months running wild, Roma se
as the second picture shows,

W's

ems doubtful of the ﬁrst kindly hand extended to her. Later,
she is happy and conﬁdent.

The original owner was delighted with the success of the Branch in rehabilitating Roma and gave a generous donation to
help the local work. Roma is now a police dog with the RAF

THE MTND (NF THE D©G

The Mind of the Dog by R. H. Smythe,
MRCVS, Examiner in surgery to the RCVS.
Country Life. 183.

People should not be put off by the unfortunate
dustecover of this book; it is a sound record of
extensive observation of dogs, and the author,
being really human, is mildly satirical of the
orthodox scientiﬁc warning against projecting the
human mind into dogs and attributing mind and
intelligence to them. His chief clue to the 'dog
mind is that its herd instinct is so strong that it
looks for its leader in the family and elects him or
her its chief ‘boss’.

We have only space for a few detached points.
The author is all against the modern breeding of
dogs with hair over the eyes and long ears, ex—
plaining the seriousness of the consequences.
He illustrates how misleading experiments on
animals can be:

‘A dog in captivity, existing only for experi—
mental purposes, deprived of friendly companion—
ship and‘ sympathetic understanding, may well
respond very differently to speciﬁc stimuli from an
animal living naturally.’

He reveals that ‘the massacre of rabbits’ by
myxomatosis has had dire results on dogs, and,
incidentally, that cattle in an abattoir show great
fear of being driven into tipping crates. He has a

remarkable story of a dog and a bitch: The dog
disappeared and thereafter the bitch was missing
for short periods. After ten days she was traced
to a mine—shaft. The dog had fallen down the
shaft, landing on a ledge. When a rescuer went
down, he found several fragments of breadcrust
and fragments of bones that the bitch had
dropped to her friend.

Mr Smythe maintains that the original form of
expression of the dog was not barking but
howling. His nice sense of humour records the
following:

‘A widowed aunt came on a visit and one day
was left alone with Dinah, the bullvhitch. AP,
parently my aunt wept in her loneliness and to her
surprise Dinah joined in her sorrow. The more
Auntie cried, the more Dinah moaned, and then
again when Dinah moaned, my aunt sobbed
again. When my mother returned, she found my
aunt prostrate and Dinah quite exhausted but still
able to moan faintly. The pair were separated and
eventually both made a fair recovery.’

In asides the author records that monkeys play
practical jokes and hug themselves in jOY when
they come off and that their power to detect
glaster’s homecoming is more acute even than a

og s.

The drawings, by K. F. Barker (appropriately

named), which illustrate the book, are excellent.
’ R. F. R.

 

 

 

 




 

 

78 THE ANIMAL WORLD

Reprinted, by kind permission, from The Inquirer

July 1958

ﬁ
ﬁ.

MEN AND ANIMALS
by Antony Steel

Few creatures prey on other species just because
they enjoy killing as a pleasurable diversion. Of
those who do so, man stands without peer for the
amount of energy, time and resources he is pre’
pared to devote to this end.

The story of man’s relationship to the world of
lesser, but nevertheless still sentient, animals is a
record of wholesale slaughter and delight in crua
elty. In 1945, 5,867 elephants were killed in the
Belgian Congo, the average for the preceding 150
years being at least 10,000 a year. Between 1948
and 1951 102,025 animals, mainly buffalo, elk and
antelope, were recorded as having been shot in
the Zambesi Valley alone.

The totally defenceless koala bear of Australia,
the model for the teddy bear, was almost wiped
out in a few years. 2,000,000 were killed in 1924;
600,000 in the following year.

In 1800 the herds of quagga, a beast which was
a cross between a zebra and a horse, covered the
whole horizon in parts of South Africa. The last
survivor of this host was shot in 1878. The toll
continues. More and more land is reclaimed from
the jungle, the weapons of the killers improve
yearly, and sources of food for many of the sura
viving animals are destroyed even if they them;
selves escape. Dr Bernard Crzimek, a leading
zoologist, estimates that in areas of Africa which
are relatively unknown to white hunters, the num—
bers of creatures are reduced by about 70 per cent
as compared with the last century.

In Java only 40 rhinoceroses survive, in India
less than 250. Even now species of birds that have
existed for perhaps millions of years are being
hunted to extinction.

The attitudes of mind of these ‘sporting’ men
defy understanding. Thus Frederick Vaughan
Kirby informs us that ‘To those who enjoy an
exciting race on a good horse over rough country,
giraffevhunting offers great, almost unequalled
attractions’. He then relates in his book Haunts of
Wild Game, how he killed three giraffes in the
course of one chase, and how the third of these, a
female, would not fall down but, loaded with shot
and quite helpless, stood beneath a tree and faced
him waiting for death. Mr Kirby then writes, ‘The
twitching mouth, the quivering limbs of the help—
less giraffe, as it stands with reddened sides, er
press wonder at man’s inhumanity, besides its
own bitter pain’. Yet, realizing this, Mr Kirby still
continues to hunt. This is what is so incredible.
It is not as if Kirby and many others lack imaginav
tion, it is just that a dynamo of destructiveness
takes charge of their Whole being.

C. G. Shillings tells us in With Flashlight and
Riﬂe that ‘Death softens the original savage ex—
pression on the countenance of dying baboons
and you see a look of intense agony in the fixed
stare of their eyes. I remember especially a most
painful moment. I had shot a powerful old
baboon and followed him into a rocky cavern
where I found him dying, with his hands pressed
to the death wound.’ This experience, however,
did not prevent Mr Shillings from further
baboon’hunting.

The story is endless. Kalman Kittenberger
boasts how, finding a family of chimpanzees, he
shot a young male in the chest and watched him
fall through the trees trying to clutch on to
branches as he fell. Lord Baden~Powell leaves to
posterity his account of pigvsticking in India, and
how, having pinned a boar to the ground with a
spear through the body, he watched it trying to
work its way up the spear.

There is no need to continue this catalogue of
brutality. No mention is made of unintentional
or even thoughtless cruelty committed every day
in hunting for food.

Each year in this country thousands of foxes,
deer, otters, badgers and hares are chased and
harried to particularly gory deaths. Huntsmen
may argue, for instance, that they hunt merely to
rid the country of foxes, but this is not the truth.
When, recently, several Midland counties were
becoming seriously depleted in their fox popu'
lations, more foxes were imported in order that
the hunting would not suffer.

 

 

Photo] [P. A. Collins

This memorial to men of the Camel Corps stands in the
Embankmenthardens

ll




 

80 THE ANIMAL WORLD

 

Photo] [By countesy of Macclesﬁeld Times and Courier

Mrs Casson, a member of the Committee at Macclesﬁeld,

with an intruder among her Labradors. The swan was put

on a pond in Mrs Casson’s garden for a rest over a year

ago, and is still living there. She frequently visits the

kitchen, feeds with the Labradors, and answers to her
name of josephine

 

was needed for the descent. Police Constable R.
Preest promptly volunteered, and the rescue
harness was ﬁtted on him.

Another police ofﬁcer—PC Rogers—descended
to a rocky ledge, about 25 ft. down, and there
secured himself—in a position to transmit instruc—
tions between the surface and the rescuer.

All in readiness, PC Preest was lowered down
the shaft to a distance of about 75 ft., where it
was possible to reach the animal.

Conditions in the shaft were treacherous,
owing to melting snow, heavy rain, mud and rot.
ting vegetation. Throughout the rescue the police
constable was exposed to danger from the over—
hanging rocks and lack of ventilation; a test made
by the Inspector showed a trace of black damp, a
gas in which animal life will not survive.

Overcoming every difﬁculty, PC Preest was
able to place the dog in a rescue net, in which it
was hauled to safety. The rescuer himself
followed.

The dog was heavy in pup. She was handed
back, showing no sign of injury, to her grateful
owners.

For his help in this rescue, PC Rogers has
received the RSPCA bronze medal.

MARKET IMPROVEMENTS
On posting to Bury St Edmunds, Senior Inspector
Wolfenden reported adversely on the entrance to
the sale ring from the weighbridge at the cattle

 

July 1958

market. On leaving the weighbridge for the ring,
the animals came down a short but very slippery
incline and about ﬁve per cent used to slip side—
ways and fall. As the result of his representations,
this matter has been put right and there have been
no mishaps since.

Senior Inspector Morris reports that a new pig
market was opened at Doncaster on May 6 which
will accommodate up to 2,000 pigs, under cover.

For some time now, considerable improve—
ments have been made in Ashford cattle market,
and the latest, according to Senior Inspector
Coles, is that the boar pens have now been made
secure and this improvement will ensure that
these animals will now be penned quite safely
without any danger of ﬁghting or escape. Yet
further improvements to these pens are envisaged.

PREVENTION OF ACCIDENTS
New Forest Ponies

Inspector Harﬂeet was recently invited by the
New Forest Pony Breeders Association to attend
a demonstration of ‘luminous collars’ which were
ﬁtted to some New Forest ponies. The collars
were cut from a sheet of material known as
‘Scotch Light’ into strips approximately 3 inches
wide which were placed around the animals’
necks and both ends secured. They were tried on
unbroken ponies and on two ponies being ridden
by children. After dark these animals were let out
on to the road and the headlamps of cars were
directed on to them.

The result was very satisfying since the bands
showed up very clearly at between 200 and 300
yards.

It remains to be seen, however, whether the
bands will stand up to the rough treatment they
are likely to get during bad weather and when the
ponies roll in the mud.

 

 

 

.5-

NYLON V CTl

This bird was picked up on the River Thames by lnspector
Waddell. Nylon ﬁshing line had become entangled round
the tongue (causing it to blacken from mortification) and
the upper and lower mandibles; another length of line had
wound itself round the neck and under the wings. This
trussing of the bird had prevented it from eating

 

 

 

 




82 THE ANIMAL WORLD

July 1958

 

 

away by the exotic excitement to see the buffet'ing
the horse has to endure. It is all too often too
much for him and he is brought to the ground. It
is then the job of the toreros to draw away the
bull, but if they cannot do so the unprotected
horse is at the mercy of the bull’s horns. A scene
like this does not occur in every bullvﬁght, but it
is not uncommon.

May I ask the readers of Riding who have con—
ceived an admiration for the corrida, and a great
longing to see one, to consider what our faithful
equine friends suffer in the bull—ring and even
during the days between the ﬁghts, and, when in
Spain, to do as most Spaniards do—keep away
from the bull—ring?

F. J. FORGAS,
Palau Sacosta, Prov. Gerona, Spain

SPANIARDS APPROVE

A letter of congratulation was addressed to
Mr Forgas by the Chief Secretary, and the com—
ment received from Mr Forgas is interesting. As
RSPCA supporters are aware, the Society’s

attitude is sometimes misunderstood. Critics of
the Society say that it is an unwarranted inter;
ference in the affairs of another country, though
the Society always answers: ﬁrst, the appeal is
to British people not to support abroad a form
of cruelty they have banned at home; and
secondly, the Society suggests that humane
people in Spain who oppose the bullaﬁght will be
grateful for the moral support they obtain when
tourists pointedly abstain from supporting the
bullﬁght.

Conﬁrmation that the Society’s View is correct
is reﬂected in the letter from Mr Forgas when he
writes to the Chief Secretary:

‘Your critics must admit that you are fully
justiﬁed: you are not interfering in a foreign
country, you conﬁne yourselves to asking your
own nationals to think.

‘Two friends of mine in England sent me copies
of your letter asking tourists in Spain to “avoid
the bullvﬁght”, we thank you for writing that
letter and we are grateful to dozens of country
newspapers that printed it.’

 

Nursing a young lynx
whose mother had died.
The RSPCA Mombasa
Branch cared for the
animal

 

 

VATICAN BLESSINGS

An extract translated from an article appearing in
El N oticiero Universal, published in Barcelona,
shows the interest of the Pope in those who work
for animal welfare.

The extract reads: ‘Count de Sert, President of
the Spanish Federation for the Protection of
Animals and Plants, expressed his satisfaction and
gratiﬁcation that the Holy Father had granted His
Apostolic Blessing to the Federation. He showed
a letter from the Secretary of State at the Vatican,
drafted in affectionate terms. In this letter it was
stated that the Vicar of Christ, With all his heart,
invoked an abundance of divine favours on the
Federation as a whole, and also on the group of
children in the Barcelona Society who had joined
with the Board Members in expressions of ﬁlial
devotion.’

Photo] [By courtesy of Sport & General Press AgenCY

At the RSPCA’s Animals Help Society Branch Clinic at the
White House, Southall, an assistant cleans an oiled swan
contaminated after diesel oil had fouled a canal at Oxford-
In all, thirteen birds were rescued and, after cleaning, were
released on a clean part of the River Thames

 

 

 

 

 




 

84 THE ANIMAL WORLD July 1958

 

COLLECTIONS

(We give wherever possible the place at which the collection
was made and the name of the organizer or organizers )

House—to-House

£ 5. 61.
Leeds, Mrs Hume (branch hon sec) 7 3 7
Portchester, Mrs A. M. Carter 60 14 6
Stoke—Holy Cross, Miss Marston ' 10 12 4
Cefn Coed, Mrs S. Pratt (aux hon sec) 20 10 3
Taunton, Miss A. F. Parry (aux hon sec) 125 O O
Surrey—Sutton and District, Mrs Cuttriss

(br hon sec)“ 586 9 9
Newton Ayclifl'e, Mr R. E. Wilson (aux

hon sec) 13 6 8
Maidstone, Oiiham and Addington, Lt Col

E. S. Kerr (br hon sec) .. .. 76 2 6
Doncaster, MrJ. Morrison (br hon sec) 25 12 1

Flag Day
28 s. d
Welfordv on Avon, Mrs H. G. Setten (aux

hon sec) .. 1 1 9 8
Slough, Mrs D. B. Butler (aux hon sec) 145 O 0
Halifax, Mr R. A. Crosby (br chairman) and

Mr C. S. Horner (br hon sec) 342 O O
Richings Park, Mrs Sidney (aux hon sec). 20 O 0
Langley, Miss V. E. Light (aux hon sec) 41 1 9
Stockton—oanees, Miss M. E. Postle 346 15 0
Preston, Mrs H. Kay (br hon sec) 257 15 O
Towcester, Miss Turner (aux hon sec) .. 29 14 0
Norton and District, Mrs P. M. Pye Oliver

(div hon sec) 112 10 0
Sale, Mrs Twisse (aux hon sec) 95 O O
Newtown, Mont., Mrs Maidie Andrew

Hughes (br hon sec) 52 1 8
Newport Pagnell, Mrs Tew (aux hon sec) approx 60 O O
Spalding, Mrs F. G. Heard (aux hon sec) 100 O O
Middlesbrough, Mrs]. H Hart (br hon sec) 78 10 4
Cirencester .. 65 13 4
Leigh 81 District, Mrs F. A. Boydell (aux

hon sec) . .. 136 8 1
Retford, Mrs G. E. Hurst (aux hon sec) 191 19 O
Crediton, Mrs E. Beer (aux hon sec) . 45 5 3
Standon and Puckeridge, Mrs M. J. W.

Lewis (aux hon sec)... 22 8 2
Ormskirk, Miss Alice Richards (br hon sec) 40 13 2
Gosport, Mrs F. W. Clark (aux hon Hsec). 150 13 8
Henley 1n Arden 22 O O
Alcester . 8 17 O
Ware, Miss D. Wilsher (aux hon sec) 5O 14 6
Macclesﬁeld, Miss A. M. Wain (br hon sec) 194 19 O
Bangor, Mrs Newing (aux hon sec)“ 88 2 2
Holbeach, Mrs E. E. Shepherd (aux hon sec) 30 5 4
Sutton Bridge and Long Sutton, Mr V.

Goodman (aux hon sec) .. 16 14 9
Stone, Miss A. Sawyer (aux hon sec) 101 O O
Southampton

£ 5. d.

'Mrs Statham (br hon sec) 85 16 10
Mrs Daly (aux hon sec) 75 11 9%
Mrs Squier (aux hon sec) ‘ 37 11 6%
Mrs Birt (aux hon sec) 29 7 6%
Mrs Bonetti (asst hon sec) 23 2 3
Mrs Wright (aux hon sec) 9 10 11%
Mrs]. S. Bucknill 15 11 2
Senior Inspector Hallam 58 19 1
£335 11 2

FORTHCOMING FLAG DAYS
Notiﬁed up to time of going to Press on May 2 3:

Abergavenny Sat., July 19
Alfreton, Derbyshire Fri. and Sat.,
July 25 & 26
Anglesey ... . .. ... ... Sat., July 12
Barnsley. Sat., Aug. 16
Barton on Humber . Sat., July 19
Berkshire—Newbury and District Branch
(Berkshire County Collection) Sat., July 26
Bournemouth Sat., July 26
Bracklesham, Sussex Mon., July 28
Bridgwater ... . .. ... ... Sat., July 5
Bristol Sat., Aug. 16
Caernarvonshire—West . . . Sat., Aug. 9
Cardiff Branch (Glamorgan County Fri. and Sat.,
Collection) July 25 8L 26
Chatham... Sat., July 5
Cleethorpes ... . . . ... ... Sat., July 5
Colchester . . . . . . ... ... Sat., July 19
Cromer Sat., July 19
Dartford . . . ... ... ... Sat., Aug. 9
Devizes . . . . . . Sat., July 12
East and West Wittering, Sussex Mon., July 28
Essex County Sat., July 19
Exeter Fri., July 11
Fareham, Hampshire . .. Sat., July 12
Forest of Dean, Gloucestershire Sat., July 5
Freshwater, Isle of Wight Fri., Aug. 15
Gillingham, Kent Sat., July 26
Glamorgan—-Mid & Port Talbot Branch Fri. and Sat.,
(Glamorgan County Collection) July 25 St 26
Glamorgan—West & Swansea Branch Fri. and Sat,
(Glamorgan County Collection) July 25 & 26
Great Yarmouth . . .. Sat., Aug.
Hailsham Rural District . .. Sat. Aug. 2
Harrogate .. . . . . . .. ... Sat., July 26
Hastings Sat., July 12
Hunstanton ... ... ... ... Wed., July 16
King’s Lynn Tues., Aug. 12
Lancing, Sussex Wed., July 30
Ludlow Sat., Aug. 16
Lymington Borough Sat., Aug. 16
Merthyr Tydﬁl Branch Fri. and Sat.,
(Glamorgan County Collection) July 25 St 26
Newbury . . . . . . Sat., July 26
New Forest Rural District . . . Sat., Aug. 9
Newton Abbot Wed., Aug. 6
Norwich ... .. . . . . ... Sat., July 5
Nottingham Sat. , July 5
Pembrokeshire—Mid & North Branch Sat., July 19
Pembrokeshire—South Branch .. Sat., July 19
Plymouth Sat., July 5
Prestatyn . . . Sat., Aug. 16
Ramsgate Sat., July 5
Reading Branch (Berkshire Co. Coll. H) Sat., July 26
Ryde, Isle of Wight Sat., July 5
St Helens Sat., July 5
Sandown, Isle of Wight Thurs., July 3
Shalﬂeet, Isle of Wight Sat., Aug. 16
Shanklin, Isle of Wight . . . . .. Thurs., July 3
Shepton Mallet Fri., July 4
Sittingbourne Sat., Aug. 16
Sompting, Sussex Wed., July 30
Southendvon—Sea . . . . . . . . . Sat., July 19
Surrey Sat., July 5
Watchet, Somerset Sat., Aug. 16
Wellington, Shropshire Thurs., July 17
Weymouth . . . . . . . . . Sat, July 5

An appeal 1s made to any readers who are able to assist
these collections to communicate with their local Hon
Secretaries, whose names and addresses will gladly be pro'
vided by RSPCA Headquarters.

 




 

 

 

@NEFORMS

Manufacturers of

UNIFORM CLOTHING

HOBSON & SONS A CAPS HELMETS LEATHER
(LONDON) LTD

BELTS POUCHES etc. etc.

Gold and Silver Laces
Embroideries of every
Allinquiries to description for ALL

154-164 TOOLEY STREET UNIFORMED SERVICES

 

LONDON BRIDGE S.E.1 PATTERNS OF CLOTH
and ESTIMATES

Telephone: HOP 2476 (3 lines) will be forwarded free of charge
Telegrams: HOBSON, SEDIST, LONDON

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

* ATTRACTIVE ANIMAL STUDIES *

CHRISTMAS CARDS AND CALENDARS

SOLD IN AID OF THE RSPCA

ALL STUDIES IN
For fully illustrated pamphlet, please complete the form below and send to: BLACK AND WHITE ONLY

RSPCA, 105 JERMYN STREET, LONDON, SW1 *

 

-————-- -—+ --------------- CUT HERE ------------------------ CARDS

 

2/6 per packet of six

(Please complete in block letters and affix 2d. stamp, which will
save RSPCA expense)

Mr
NAME Mrs .............................................................................................
Mrss

Two or more packets
ordered, price 2 /3 per packet

 

 

 

CALENDARS

 

2/- each, or 21 /- per dozen

(Suitable envelopes for cards
and calendars supplied free)

-—-CUTHERE-—-————-——-———

 

Printed be Shenval Press, Simson Shand Ltd, London, Hertford and Harlow, and
published by John Hall for the RSPCA at 105 Jermyn Street, London, SW1

 




