ROYAL SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION
Founded 1824

OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS
Headquarters: 105 Jermyn Street, London, S.W.1

PATRONS
HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN
HER MAJESTY QUEEN ELIZABETH, THE QUEEN MOTHER
HER ROYAL HIGHNESS PRINCESS ALICE COUNTESS OF ATHLONE
HER ROYAL HIGHNESS PRINCESS ARTHUR OF CONNAUGHT

VICE-PRESIDENTS
HER GRACE WINIFRED DUCHESS OF PORTLAND

SIR MALCOLM SARGENT, HON LLD, D MUS, FRCM, FRSA
”THE EARL OF SHAFTESBURY, KP, PC

COLONEL R. M. POWELL, DSO

THE COUNCIL (1952—1953)

Chairman: THE RT HON LORD MERTHYR, DL, JP
Vice-Chairman: *MRS WALLIS POWER, JP

 

"I'AGIUS, THE REV DOM. AMBROSE, 088, MA

*ALLIBERT, MRS

‘*ALSOP, ALDERMAN A. J., FCRA, PCIS, JP ‘
BERE, SIR RUPERT DE LA, MP
BERTIE OF THAME, THE RT HON THE VISCOUNTI‘SS
BRANSOM, MISS L. G., FRSA
BYWATER, H. E., ESQ, MRCVS

FREEMAN, PETER, ESQ, MP
GASKOIN, C. J. 3., ESQ., MA
GREENWOOD, ANTHONY, ESQ, MA, MP
*HARVEY, MRS J. w., MA
*HOCKIN, C. OWEN, ESQ

‘ HQGG, s. R., ESQ, DSO, MC

POULETT, THE RT HON THE EARL

POWELL, COL R. M., DSO

RATTRAY, THE REV DR R. F.
*RIECK, H. H., ESQ

SHAFTESBURY, THE RT HON THE COUNTESS OF
SIBLY, W. A., ESQ, MA, JP

*H \TE 1 SNELL, THE REV PREBENDARY L. J. 3., MBE, JP
'*COOPER, ALDERMAN J. D., JP i LEE MES’ M SS TAIT, MRS, BA
DAWES, CAPTAIN H. W., CBE, MRCV'S , TERRINGTON, THE RT HON LORD, KBE, MA
DORCHESTER, LT-COL THE RT HON LORD, ORE, JP g LOCKWOOD’ LT'COL 1- C-a JP, TD, MP

THOMAS, w. s. RUSSELL, ESQ
‘*DOWDELL, MRS ; LONGMAN’ MRS W' TUFNELL, LIEUT-COMMANDER R. L., MA, RN
ESTCOURT-OSWALD, MISS AGNES, MB (LOND), IJFH ‘ MURRAY, BRIGADIER C' A-s CBE, MRCVS *WALEORD, MRS DESBOROUGH
(CANTAB), DOMS MOORE, LT-COL SIR THOMAS, CBE. MP *WHITE, HARRY, ESQ, FCA
‘*EVANS, MRS DAVID, BA *PARKER, MAURICE 0-, ESQ, MISAC *WINCHESTE-R, F. 1., ESQ, FCIS, rss

 

* Denotes Branch Representative T Denotes €00,3th Member

OFFICE BEARERS APPOINTED BY THE COUNCIL

Hon Treasurer—LT—CCL J. C. LOCKWOOD, JP, TD, MP

 

 

 

Deputy Hon Treasurer—~HARRY WHITE, ESQ, FCA
Hon Medical Ofﬁcer—A. F. WHYTE, ESQ, MB, CHB
Bankers—MESSRS COUTTs AND CO, STRAND, LONDON

Telegrams—WHITEHALL 7177

£114?
‘ 5

   

SlMPlE..‘s\\\ ,
; SURE ﬁCASiI-Iﬂ X47

CAPTIVE BOLT PISTOL
FOR ALL ANIMALS

BIRMINGHAM '6

   
 

  
   

ICCIES AND SHEIVOKE lID ENGLAND

5465

Chief Secretary—ARTHUR w. MOSS, ESQ, MnE, ACIS

Assistant Secretary—D. A. L. CAMM, ESQ, BA

Legal Secretary—J. HALL, ESQ

Chief Veterinary OIﬁcer—MAJOR R. C. G. HANCOCK, BSC, MRCVS

Auditors—MESSRS VINEY, PRICE AND GOODYEAR, CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS

Telephone——Whitehall 7177

 

 

Send 3d. for “NATURE GIFTS’—-the best XMAS
GIFT Catalogue for Animal—lovers.

 

SCARF RINGS, with coloured
miniature of Dog or Horse, 5/3
NOTEPAPER, printed your ad-
dress and flower or animal de-
sign: 200 sheets, with enve—

Best Toilet SOAP with Bird,
Dog or T/Fish pictures which
do not wash off: Box 3 tablets
4/- (3 boxes Il/3)

NESTBOXES, Tit or Robin,

lopes, 25/5. Samples 3d. IO/9.
g» DEPT. 8, GREENRIGG WORKS,
”ﬂ WOODFORD GREEN, ESSEX

 

 

 

 

CHRISTMAS CARDS AND CALENDARS

Please write to:

CHIEF SECRETARY,
RSPCA, I05 JERMYN ST., LONDON, SWI
For illustrated pamphlet
showing attractive range of
RSPCA CHRISTMAS CARDS AND
CALENDARS—IN BLACK & WHITE
AS WELL AS BEAUTIFUL COLOURS

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

124 THE ANIMAL WORLD

November , 1953

 

 

slow, haunting sadness for the blindness of Man—
kind, and then exultantly, for the glory which lies
beyond the shadows, and the love which is every—
where, and the miraculous wonder of even the
tiniest feather and the smallest scut. Not forget—
ting Mrs Nightingale, sitting patiently on her ﬁve
olive green eggs in the nest under the lilacs.

Eggs which, one day, with no fuss or bother, or

scientiﬁc knowledge, or voice training, would all '

sing the Song of Heaven.

HEROES’ CORNER

Nairobi Rescues

The story of gallantry shown by Mr L. J. E.
Baillargeon, a Deputy Firemaster, came to
RSPCA Headquarters from the East African
SPCA, an afﬁliated body.

A kitten had been missing for two days. Mr
Baillargeon, Deputy Firemaster of Nairobi,
located the kitten in the upper branches of a tree.
Between 9 o’clock in the evening and midnight,
he tried without success to get the kitten, but
the upper part of the tree would not bear his
weight. At daylight the following day, he scaled
the tree and, despite the dangerous swaying and
the dislodgment of rotten branches, he was able
to reach the kitten and bring her down to safety.

Whilst the RSPCA was obtaining details of
this rescue, news was received that Mr Baillargeon
had descended a ﬁfty—foot disused well to retrieve
a dog who had fallen there. For risking his life on
behalf of animals, Mr Baillargeon has received

the RSPCA bronze medal and certiﬁcate.

A Puppy

The 8.43 train at Withyham Station, Sussex, had
been signalled out. The porter had given it right
of way and the driver opened up and started of.
Miss M. Ward, who was travelling by car, sud,
denly saw a puppy on the track. She leapt from
her car, ran through a gate and picked the
animal up almost from the train wheels. Turning
and seeing what was happening, the porter
shouted to the driver to stop. Miss Ward with
the puppy in her arms scrambled clear and the
train pulled up within two yards of her.

For rescuing this puppy, without regard for her
own safety, Miss Ward has received the RSPCA

bronze medal and citation certiﬁcate.

Bronze Medals

Other rescuers, whose gallantry has gained for
them the RSPCA bronze medal and citation
certiﬁcate are: '
Sub—Ofﬁcer F. O. Evans, who rescued a dog
from a disused shaft at NantvyrvOnnen, Capel
Seion, Aberystwyth; Coastguardsman N. Conn
and Mr G. Hugill, who rescued a steer at Bracken;

bury Wyke, near Staithes, Yorkshire; Inspector
Greenhalgh who rescued a dog from a disused well
at North Colenso Farm, Goldsithney, Cornwall;
Senior Inspector Morrison, who rescued a cat
from a chimney stack at Birchwood Road, Kings
Lynn; Mr E. Jones, who rescued a cat from a tree
at the Cricket Ground, Chislehurst; Police Cona
stable C. Jolleys, who rescued a cow from the
river Holme at Honley,vnear Huddersﬁeld; Mr
A. Norton (RSPCA all night emergency staff),
who rescued a dog from the electric railway lines,
Barons Court, London, W14; Police Constable
R. L. M. Sired, who rescued a spaniel from
Winchelsea chalk cliff face, near Dover; and
Fireman H. Frith, who rescued a dog from the
cliff at Overcliff Drive, Boscombe.

Disappointment

The RSPCA often hears of stories where, despite
outstanding gallantry, rescuers after extreme risk
have had the disappointment of ﬁnding the
animal dead. Fireman T. H. J. Lovell volunteered
to rescue a sheep forty feet from the top of
Penvy—Cwm, Solva, Pembrokeshire. As the Fire—
man was lowered, despite care and caution, the
animal was disturbed and in fright fell another
100 feet. The rope was, not long enough for this
descent and Fireman Lovell, after returning to

the top, was lowered to the ﬁrst ledge with Chief ,

Ofﬁcer S. Israel. Fireman Lovell was lowered
again and at the depth of 140 feet was beginning
to rope the animal when it again took fright and
jumped away, falling another 100 feet. This fall
killed the animal instantly. The owner, who
watched the rescue work, says that although he
lost a prize sheep, he is satisﬁed that everything
possible was done and he congratulated the Fire
Ofﬁcer and Fireman who had risked their lives.
Fireman Lovell has received the RSPCA silver
medal and certiﬁcate, and Chief Fire Ofﬁcer S.
Israel has received a bar to the RSPCA silver
medal he already holds.

When the Police heard that a dog had fallen
over the cliffs at Lands End, Cornwall, they told
the Commanding Ofﬁcer of some Royal Marine
Commandos, who were stationed in the area.
Although the cliff where the dog went over had
always been considered impossible to scale, two
volunteers, an ofﬁcer and a sergeant, offered to go
over. They roped themselves together and, work!
mg as mountaineers, descended the cliff. Theyf
reached the dog 100 feet down and the Lieut.
roped him to himself and carried him to the top.
Unfortunately, the dog was dead. Despite the
dIsappointing sequel to this story, Lieut. M.
Baizley and Sergt E. Harrison of the Royal
Marine Commandos have received in acknow~
ledgmentof their gallantry, the RSPCA bronze
medal and certiﬁcate. '

 

 

 




 

 

('00;

k u . b: . . : \llll A. .x k . . A

 

. l k . I). r, \IqNI.
\ . . KI. .|”rIJUIl7.i

 

 

 

 

 

-_.h - .e

 

 

urbnw

T rusting—uni th

V

ll

ution

[Di

ana Durell

.!
.-

 

 

3: ~\.Nhli|\.l
v .A \|.\r15t31: A

 

 

 

\ 1y 'I'rw.’

 

 

 

 

d

 

 

 




 

 

 

ANIMAL

THE OFFICIAL

 

Ewo

MAGAZINE OF

 

RLD

THE RSPCA

 

Vol XLVIII No II

New Series

NOVEMBER I 9 53

PRICE THREEPENCE
4s. 6d. per annum. Post paid

 

ANT BEAR
LlBERATED BY
RlTlSH HONDURAS
SPCA

 

Major A. L. Abraham, Chairman of the British Honduras
SPCA (affiliated to the RSPCA), who sends these pictures,
writes: ‘One day last month we heard that a youth had been
seen dragging an ant bear about the town of Belize. We
traced him and the animal was seized. As these animals live
almost entirely on ants, it is extremely hard to rear them in
captivity.’ The Society took the bear to the place where she
had been captured and there released her

 

 

ANIMAL EXPERIMENTATION
The following letter, written by Lord Merthyr, Chairman of the RSPCA Council, has been published in ‘The Times’

According to reports, a doctor, addressing the British
Association Conference, suggested that unwanted dogs and
cats should be used for experimentation.

It is always the desire of the RSPCA to act reasonably, to
listen to all the arguments for or against any proposal
affecting animals, and to meet those who oppose the So-
ciety’s attitude towards any problem, with a view to ﬁnding
a happy solution, if that is at all possible. Nevertheless, on
this matter of using stray dogs for experimental purposes,
we can admit no compromise; and any attempt to alter the
existing regulations, which forbid such a practice, will be
faced with resolute opposition by the RSPCA. We consider
that the mere fact that a dog has become a stray means that
he has suffered; and to change the law here, as has been done
in the United States, would be a step of a most retrograde
kind. Furthermore, the Society could not break faith with

lthe public, who hand their dogs, cats and other pets to us in

order that we may give them a painless end.

In the same report, we are assured that animals subjected
to experimentation are not caused pain. If that is correct,
would someone explain why it is necessary for a Govern—
ment Department to issue Certiﬁcates ‘A’ and ‘B’?

We are informed that in one instance rats were "‘put into a
metal drum, which was rotated for one and a half hours,
and that to prevent them clinging to the sides of the drum,
their feet were fastened with adhesive tape. We had hoped
that these experiments took place only in Canada and
America, but we are now told that they have been conducted
in this country. Is this true? If so, can we believe that these
creatures did not really suffer? I understand that the object
of the test was to ﬁnd out what amount of pain the rats
could endure before death supervened; but many eminent
veterinary surgeons and other scientists have expressed
their horror at such experiments being carried out at all.
Is it not time the nation called a halt?

 

 




 

 

 

122 . THE ANIMAL WORLD

November 1953

 

 

Reprinted from Woman’s Journal by-courtesy of the author. Acknowledgmentoof the privilege of reproducing the
illustrations (which are smaller than the originals) is made to the Editor of Woman 5 Journal

   

The nightingale’s song began as the moon rose
behind the lilacs. At ﬁrst he sang slowly, softly,
sadly, and each poignant note seemed to echo the
world’s heartbreak. At last joy crept in, and he
sang exultantly, and in his song was all the glad—
ness of Heaven to dry Earth’s tears.

There was a rustling, a soft scampering, a
fluttering of feathers, a distant muted chirping, a
faraway squeak, and one by one the birds and
beasts gathered under the scented lilacs to listen.

The little black cat from the house sat beside
the stable mouse, and the vixen’s red coat brushed
the white feathers of a fat and succulent Ayles’
bury duck. They had forgotten to hunt and kill,

because the nightingale sang the Song of Heaven. -~

Each clear note drifted on the hushed and scented
air, and the stars came nearer and shone more
brightly, and the night wind was still.

When the song was over the animals sat in
silent wonder, bewitched, until the little brown
squirrel broke the spell. ‘Why is the Song of
Heaven so sad?’ he asked, peeping round a large
ivy leaf. ‘If I could sing it I’d be so proud that
every note would ring with happiness! But you
begin with tears!’

The nightingale ruﬂled his feathers and sighed,
a tiny quivering nightingale sigh. ‘The Song of
Heaven is sad,’ he said, ‘for Men, who could be
like the angels, are blind, and blindness is the
most pitiful of all afﬂictions. But the end is happy,
because one day they will see.’

The night wind puffed protestingly through the
beech tree, and swayed the dew~drenched lilacs,
and swept over the lawn to whistle round the
chimney pots and return.

‘Blind!’ The vixen sat up indignantly, curling
her lip. ‘You say they’re blind! Why, they chase
me all across the county, and it takes all my cunv
ning and ﬁne running to escape!’ She paused,
snarling. ‘Last year they dug my cubs from the
earth and threw them to the hounds! Blind! Bah!’

As she said ‘Bah!’ the night wind howled coldly

THE ONLY SOUND IN A MOON’DRENCHED NIGHT

By JILL GILL

Illustrations by Ruth Murrell

among the leaves. He had seen the cubs slaugh'
tered. ‘

Nearly everyone feared the vixen, except while
listening to the Song of Heaven. When she snarled
they edged away unobtrusively, leaving her alone,
and the moonlight shone coldly on her bared
fangs, and the night wind iowled again.

The little hedgesparrowshivered and snuggled.
down on his lilac perch, ﬂufﬁng himself out and
hunching himself up till he looked twice his right:
size. ‘Blind or not, I wish we were half as clever as
Man," he chirped. ‘Then we could make a great:
and wonderful ﬁre on the path, and the leaping
ﬂames would warm us when the night wind is

_ cold and angry.’

‘You have your feathers!’ the nightingale told
him. ‘No marvel that Man creates is half as:
miraculous as one of your small feathers.’

‘Or my scut!’ the doe rabbit said softly. She
was proud of her scut. It was the roundest,
whitest, bobbiest scut‘ in the countryside. ‘Men.
aren’t blind!’ she continued. ‘They set gin traps
and when we are caught our babies starve to
death in the burrow. Sometimes we are not killed.
for nights and days, and we lie cold, and hurt, and- '
thinking of the, burrow and our crying young.’

The starling ﬂuttered his wings excitedly and.
the moonlight turned his sleek plumage to dark.
light. ‘They pull our nests from under the eaveS-
and trample our chicks to death,’ he told every»
one, his voice more harsh than usual. ‘Wherever'
they go they kill and destroy. It’s always possible:
to outwit a cat, but a man . . .!’

. The cat, who had been absentmindedly washe-
1ng her face, while wondering for the hundredth.
time why, when the nightingale sang, she had no"
desire to catch the listening mice, sat up and.
tW1tched her whiskers. ‘They say they love me,’
she said. ‘They stroke me and give me milk. But:
they drown my kittens. I want so much to keep"
my kittens. Even one kitten.’ She licked her paW
and ran it over her face, shutting her eyes tightly”

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

November 1953 THE ANIMAL WORLD 125

 

 

WHY?

 

Mrs Tait, RSPCA Council Member, who sends this picture,
suggests the caption:

‘Why on a lead in the country?—Because there are sheep
about!’

SPACE SHIP MARTYRS

This letter, sent by the Chief Secretary of the
RSPCA to all newspapers, has been widely
printed: .

‘It is reported that animals are to be used
experimentally in rocket ships, travelling to
unprecedented heights.

‘Animals lovers the world over will strongly
oppose such a project, as does the RSPCA. It is
proposed to use monkeys, but monkeys are
highly sensitive creatures, capable of suffering
intense terror and pain. To send them on such
a nightmare journey seems a cowardly way of
gaining knowledge and surely could lead to no
good end.’

INTRUDERS

When an RSPCA lecturer Visited a girls’ school
recently six small boys arrived for the lecture and
refused to go home. They were ﬁnally admitted
to the lecture and sat as still as statues.

Since the last report thirty—seven lectures were
given in schools in Somerset, Cheshire, Rotherr
ham, Aylesbury, Hutton (Essex), Harlow, Berk,
hamstead, Purley, Windsor and the London area.
A group of children was also addressed at the
London Co'operative Society Education Centre,
Highgate.

Fourteen new Animal Defender groups were
formed; 463 children joined the Headquarters
Group.

  

SWIFT HELP

After a telephone call from Connaught Place,
Weston—super—Mare, Inspector F. Horwill, of the
RSPCA, found a swift, each wing of which
spanned 7% inches, stuck between a sliding
window, the clearance between which was 1%
inches. The bird appeared to be dead, but the
Inspector used his shoulder to ease the lower
window enough to release the bird. After firstvaid
the bird recovered and when quite fit was released.

A RARE BIRD

On two occasions recently a bird who rarely
comes to this country was seen in Worcester.

Alderman C. H. Built says that the bird—a
hoopoe—ﬂew into his garden at 8 Hanbury
Park—road, and, settling on the lawn, proceeded
to dig a hole with its long curved beak.

‘The hole is about two inches deep,’ remarked
Alderman Built ‘and I watched the bird from the
window as it dug. While the bird was so engaged,
all the other birds in the garden ﬂew into trees
and watched.’

The hoopoe, which is the size of a thrush and
has a black and white tipped crest, is believed to
be the harbinger of an early summer for it loves
the sun.

Why is it called the hoopoe? Because of its
call—it uses the aspirate.

OBITUARY

With sincere regret we report the death of Miss
Dent, hon sec of Maulds Meaburn Auxiliary.

 

WIDER!

 

Photo] [by courtesy of Eric Stewart

' Mrs Clark, hon sec of Gosport and Alverstoke Auxiliary,

feeds a young starling

 

 




 

 

126 THE ANIMAL WORLD

 

November 1953

THE RSPCA AT WORK

SEPTEMBER 1953

RSPCA INSPECTORS

2,494 Complaints of cruelty investigated.
2 Offenders imprisoned.
68 Offenders ﬁned.
25 Persons guilty of minor acts of cruelty cautioned in writing.
867 Registered cautions were administered by Inspectors.

CLASSIFICATION OF CONVICTIONS
HORSES—Working in an unﬁt state, jagging mouth and

, punching 8
CATTLE—Overstocking 1
SHEEP—Neglecting 1
PIGS—Neglecting 2
DOGS—Neglecting, killing in improper manner, shooting

and wounding, kicking, docking, etc. 20
CATS—Neglecting, burning, killing in improper manner,
shooting and wounding, beating
RABBIT—Starving 2
BOWLS—Starving, neglecting, shooting and wounding,
stoning .. 5
DUCKS—Stoning, injuring with ﬁsh hook 4
PIGEONS-—-Neglecting 1
TORTOISE——Killing in improper manner 1 '
OFFENCES UNDER THE PROTECTION OF BIRDS ACT, 1925:
Conﬁning birds in small cages 5
Using decoy birds 3
OFFENCES UNDER THE WILD BIRDS PROTECTION ACTS:
Being in possession of recently taken birds 1
Using bird lime 1
Using nets for the purpose of taking 2
Setting pole traps 1
VARIOUS OEEENCES:
Permitting in offences 2
Steel—tooth trap—set in open 1
, TOTAL NUMBER OF CONVICTIONS 70

During SEPTEMBER, 1953, Magistrates, at the request of the
RSPCA, disqualiﬁed TEN persons from owning a dog or holding
a dog licence. Disqualiﬁcations were as follows:

ONE for 12 months; TWO for 2 years; TWO for 5 years;
TWO for 20 years; THREE for Life.

Total number of COMPLAINTS from January lst 21,411
Total number of CONVICTIONS from January lst 631
Total number of CAUTIONS from January lst 7,767

HEADQUARTERS CLINICS

No. of animals handled:
Cats, 5,726 Dogs, 5,320 Misc., 367

No. of animals given emergency ﬁrst—aid: 2,327

Total: 11,413

PlITNEY CONVALESCENT WARD

No. of animals handled:

Cats, 17 Dogs: .76 Misc., 0 Total: 93

NIGHT STAFF

No. of calls received: 1,731
Miles covered by ambulance in respect of urgent calls: 2,092 A
No. of animals rescued: 9

 

n1

No. of cases treated by veterinary surgeon: 229 Jet

' cat,

_ the

NORTH WALES UNIT ‘17:"

v:

First—aid Cases: l1

Cats, 21 Dogs, 57 Misc., 1 Total: 79 1;"
No. of other animals handled by Unit: 1‘}
Cats, 106 Dogs, 34 Misc., 0 Total, 140 1

No. of miles covered by Unit during month: 2,455

AWARDS

Current awards at present under consideration

RECORDS FOR 1952

COMPLAINTS 30,750
CONVICTIONS 962
CAUTIONS 11,599

HEADQUARTERS CLINICS
No. of animals handled: 160,263
. NIGHT STAFF
No. of calls: 19,839
NORTH WALES UNIT
No. of animals handled: 3,083
AWARDS
Margaret Wheatley Cross... 1
Silver Medals 11

Bars to Silver Medals 3
Bronze Medals 52
Bars to Bronze Medals 5
Merit Certiﬁcates 104

 




 

.-v-a.a.p_,~ A1343 _, ‘ ,m ‘

 

November 1953

 
 

THE ANIMAL WORLD 123

 

 

 

 

 

 

and trying not to dwell on little drowned ghost
kittens, chasing their tails.

‘They steal our eggs whenever they find them,’
the small birds chorused, ‘but they leave the
pheasant and partridge and grouse in peace!’

‘Only because they want to shoot us in the
autumn, and roast us in an oven, and eat us!’ the
pheasant explained heavily.

‘Perhaps,’ squeaked the stable mouse, ‘perhaps
men only love the ﬂowers.’ He was a very young
mouse, too young to appreciate the wickedness
of mousetraps, and he always tried to ﬁnd good
in everyone.

The daisies on the lawn, dozing in the moonv
light with petals closed, awoke. ‘They cut off our
heads with an infernal machine!’ they cried.
‘They don’t love us!’ ,

‘How about the trees?’ the lilacs whispered.
‘Surely the trees, with their gay springtime green,
their drifting pink and white blossom, and their
ﬂafming autumn glory, surely the trees are
sa e?’

‘Newspapers!’ the trees rustled. ‘Firewood and
pitvprops, telegraph poles and furniture! The list
is too long to remember! Man loves to saw and
chop, and watch us crash to earth. But tell us,
nightingale, why is it that you believe them to be
blind?’

The nightingale ﬂicked his brown tail and
looked very wise.

‘Long ago,’ the nightingale began, ‘when the
ﬁrst nightingale was made, he was given the gift of
song. The angels told him to sing the Song of
Heaven, all through the summer day, and on
through the night, so that in the hushed quietness
everyone would hear. The song was to be a sign
and a wonder, a message of hope, so that tired
hearts would rejoice. His name was Tristram—a
herald.’ The nightingale stopped, and sang nine
soft sweet notes, sang them slowly, sang them
sadly, and the brightveyed creatures gathered
close under the sheltering lilacs.

‘But on Earth,’ the nightingale continued, when
the music was over, ‘Tristram found hatred and
Violence and destruction. He sang and sang, all
through the long summer nights, but the Song of
Heaven became sad and joyless, until at last he
was obliged to ask the angels what he could do
about it.

‘They ﬂuttered their song wings, and cried a
little because Tristram had tried so hard to be a
herald, and no one had understood. Then they
told him to sing the ﬁrst notes sadly, remembering

the pain and innervblindness of Mankind, but the

end of his song was to be joyful . . . a promise of
sunrise and spring ﬂowers and hatching eggs, a
promise of eternal Love. Like this.’ Again the
nightingale sang, until the whole night rang with
joy, and the night wind fell blissfully asleep, and
the dawn wind swept softly down the hillside.

The daisies opened their pink—tipped petals
because soon the sun would rise, the rabbit re—
membered her enchanting babies, who all re—
sembled her, with their little white scuts and alert
ears, and the cat stayed dreaming of small soft
kitten chasing their tails, real kittens, not little
drowned ghosts.

When the song ended, everyone felt warm and
happy and touched by love.

‘You must forgive Mankind and pity them,’ the
nightingale said gently, ‘because they are more
blind than the sightless, and in their blindness
they do all the things they most deplore. They love
without understanding, they are clever without
wisdom, and they refuse to believe anything which
they cannot prove scientifically!’

An Admiral butterﬂy awoke and opened his
exquisite wings. Already the sky was faintly
luminous, tinged with green, and over the hill the
first faint rosy glow coloured the drifting mist. The
faraway stars were vanishing, and the dew lay
heavy and silver, so that even the cobwebs shone.

One by one the birds and beasts crept away,
each filled with the joy‘ of forgiveness, until
gothing was left but their footprints in the

ew.

Then the nightingale sang again, first with

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   

 




 

2'1-

November 1953

CAT SUFFERED ACUTELY

 

DOG NEGLECTED

ing a farm in the company of a Police
stable, Inspector Cook found a dog lying

d up on the dirt ﬂoor of an out—building.

n the Inspector spoke to the dog the animal

ed too weak to rise. The Inspector found

thw og emaciated and he was able to discover no
sign of food or water. The farm appeared to be
deserted. Later when the Inspector called with a
veterinary surgeon and taxed the owner with the
condition of his dog he replied ‘I have been busy
and have fed it on what I could get.’ The Inspector
gave the dog some food and he gulped it raven’
ously. When the Inspector pointed out to the
owner the hungry condition of the dog the man
brought from the house a 2 lb. loaf which the
dog also ate. When the owner of the dog was
brought by the RSPCA before the Macclesfield
Magistrates charged with causing unnecessary
suffering by omitting to give the dog sufﬁcient
nourishing food and proper and necessary care
and attention the veterinary surgeon gave evir
dence that the dog was found in a state of marked
emaciation attributable entirely to under feeding
if not complete starvation for a period of prob—
ably not less than a week. The defendant was ﬁned
£15 and ordered to pay £6 63. costs and he was
disqualified from owning a dog or holding a dog
icence for two years. The dog in the case now
as another owner and the Inspector is watching

the condition. (A6893)

A year’s postal subscription to the RSPCA children’s
{magazine (Animal Ways) costs only 25. 6d. and makes an
1deal Christmas gift for any Childv

THE ANIMAL WORLD

127

Regional Supt Higgins found this black cat
lying in a corner. The animal was extremely
weak and devoid of flesh. There were bare
patches, particularly about the neck and
flanks. The cat was ‘alive with lice’ and
there was no doubt, in the Superintendent’s
opinion, that the cat had been suffering

such a state. So distressed was the cat’s- ,
condition that a veterinary surgeon til}
whom she was taken by the Superintendgﬁ
gave her an immediate humane end. th‘a/e
a man and his wife, the owners of the“ 1.1
were brought by the RSPCA beforflTEJj
Magistrates at Chatham, charged 33,7
causing suffering by omitting to giveﬁﬁ
cat proper and necessary care and ati: .5,
tion, they were each fined £5, and the m, .
was ordered to pay £3 3s. costs. (A.7035?,/ E

a
ch

FEWER PIT PONIES

The number of horses employed in mines
continues to decrease steadily at the rate of
about 1,500 per year.

This is shown by the Report of H.M. Inspector
of Mines for the year 1951 (recently published).
A total of 15,858 pit ponies employed at June 30
compares with 17,340 at the corresponding period
in 1950. Excluding those made by Inspectors of
Mines during their routine inspections, 2,349
inspections were made of 34,119 horses by the
Inspectors of Horses during the year.

Reducing Eye-strain

Good progress was maintained in the replace—
ment of old stables with new ones, well planned
and illuminated. The majority of the stables in
the East Midland Division and many of those in
the North Eastern Division are now ‘green'
washed’ instead of whitewashed. It is claimed
that this has the effect of reducing eye strain and
that a nervous pony reacts favourably to the
natural green tints.

Shortage of Keepers and Farriers
In his Annual Report for the North—Eastern
Division Mr C. W. Scott comments on the in
creasing difﬁculty of ﬁnding suitable horse—
keepers and farriers. Mr W. B. Brown reports
that in the East Midland Division in an endeavour
to foster interest and recruitment of young
craftsmen, his Horse Inspector, Mr T. J. Melody,
has offered his services as demonstrator of sadd—
lery and shoeing and that several useful lectures
on these subjects have been given by him.

i

?

acutely for a considerable time to get into / »

 

’

 

 

 




 

 

130 THE ANIMAL WORLD

November 1953

 

 

branch was held in the gardens of the Pilgrims House,
Bacton. It was addressed by Major Chapman, of the society’s
headquarters, who was supported by Mrs Scott, hon sec of
North Walsham auxiliary, Mrs J. H. N. Ashbee, the society’s
representative at Bacton, and Chief Inspector L. Tye,
RSPCA, who deputized for the branch hon secretary, Miss
gastle. Tea was served. A collection for branch funds realized
s.
Hertfordshire West Miss Micklethwait, St Albans auxiliary
honorary secretary, arranged a pet show at St Albans
Cattle Market. Animals were judged by Inspector Slater

 

and by Mr F. Newlands. The show was opened by Mr H.
Hipwell, branch chairman.

Mrs Fielding, Hemel Hempstead and District auxiliary
hon secretary, reports that the pet show was a great success.
Highgate, Muswell Hill and Crouch End Mr E. Malcolm,
branch hon secretary, reports that a bring-and-buy sale
organized by Mrs Buxton and the ladies of the committee
raised £75 for branch funds.

1k

At a Coronation display held in the Borough of Hornsey
the branch had a stall in the display tent organized by the
Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries. Senior Inspector
Edwards attended.
Kent—Dover and District Mr Harman Hunt, accompanied
by Mrs Hunt, opened the branch annual exemption and
pet dog show which was held at St Mary’s Parish Hall.
Mr W. S. Lee, branch chairman and hon secretary, the
Deputy Mayor, Councillor R. S. Eade and Mr C. R. Davies,
branch organizer, attended. Mr Davies acted as announcer.
The Deputy Mayor presented RSPCA gallantry awards to
Regional Superintendent Webb and Mr L. G. Beer for their
work in rescuing animals during the East Coast ﬂoods.
There was a splendid array of prizes collected by Mr H. G.
Wright, Mrs Allen and Mrs Foulkes from supporters and
these were presented by Mr Harman Hunt. Show arrange-
ments were by Mrs A. M. Foulkes, assisted by Mr H. G.
Wright and Miss J. M. Foulkes. Mrs Allen and the ladies of
the committee arranged refreshments. A proﬁt of £15 15s. 3d.
was made for branch funds.
Kent—Isle of Thanet Mrs Crook, Broadstairs and St Peter’s
auxiliary hon secretary, reports that a mile of pennies raised
£21 8s. 8d. for branch funds.
Kent—Mid, Maidstone and District Mrs MacIlwaine
branch hon secretary, was present when Inspector Checks-
ﬁeld spoke to over 800 children on the care of dogs at the

Granada Cinema, Maidstone. Leaﬂets on the care of all pets
were distributed, as well as enrolment cards and leaﬂets on
the Animal Defender Movement.

A collection made on thek Maidstone United Football
Ground raised £13 3s. 4%d. for branch funds.
Kent—Tunbridge Wells and District As a result of station-
ing an RSPCA van at various sites in Tunbridge Wells £24
was raised for branch funds. (Report from Lt-Col. G. E. L.
Pardington, branch hon secretary.)

Kettering, Thrapston and Wellingborough At the annual

Fhoto]

Miss M. Castle, joint hon sec of

Great Yarmouth and District

Branch, sends this picture, taken
at the Branch Horse Parade

by courtesy of the
Norfolk News Co. Ltd]

general meeting of the Kettering auxiliary, Alderman
Howard paid tribute to the work of Inspector Daniels. Mr
L. H. Wicksteed, vice-president, proposed a vote of thanks
to the Inspector and he also thanked the Mayor for his
interest. Alderman Howard is president of the auxiliary.
Mr W. J. Harris was re—elected hon secretary and Mrs Wake—
ﬁeld, hon treasurer in succession to Mr W. M. Bennett.

Mr Harris, Kettering auxiliary hon secretary, reports that
a collection at Kettering Borough Agricultural Show raised
£4 1s. for branch funds.
Leicestershire and South Leicestershire Branch The new
kennels of the branch, near the City Ambulance Station at
Leicester, were declared open by the Lord Mayor, Alderman
C. R. Keene. With the Lord Mayor were Mr Harry Gee,
branch chairman, Mr C. W. Cross, vice—chairman, and Miss
Barbara Hearth, branch secretary, as well as Mr O. J. 13.
Cole, Chief Constable of Leicester. _
Loughborough and North Leicestershire A whist dere
organized by Miss M. Harridge—Cayless, branch hon. sec,
raised £10 3s. for branch funds.
Macclesﬁeld, South-East Cheshire and Buxton The Rev
H. L. Williams, branch chairman, presented prizes in the
branch essay competition. Awards were made at the Parish
Hall, Macclesﬁeld. Mrs Mayall, schools lecturer, attended
and spoke to the children.
Merthyr Tydﬁl and District A garden produce sale organ-
ized by members of the Aberdare auxiliary committee raise
£10 for the funds of the clinic. ~
Monmouthshire Miss Probyn, Monmouth District auxiliary
hon secretary, reports that £47 103. was collected for branch
funds at a recent agricultural show.
Newcastle-on-Tyne Mrs Lewis, Mrs Park, Mrs Wright and
Mrs Stewart organized a pet show at Amble and raised £10
for branch funds. Inspector Marshall helped a veterinary
surgeon with the judging.

 

 

 




 

 

 

November 1953

THE ANIMAL WORLD 1311,

 

 

 

 

The group in front
of the Branch tent
a t T u n b r i d g e
Wells Agricultural
Show includes Lt-
Col G. E. L. Pard-
ington, hon secre-
tary of the Kent—
Tunbridge Wells
a n d D i s t r i c t
B r a n c h , M is s
Hayes, N ewin gton
District hon sec.

Norfolk——Mid and Norwich At a meeting held in the Guild-
hall, Thetford, it was unanimously decided to form an
auxiliary for Thetford. The Mayor, Mr G. E. Lambert,
presided. Major H. G. Burns said the previous local com—
mittee had ceased to function at the beginning of the 1939-45
war and that there was now £14 Ss. 8d. in the bank. Senior
Inspector Green outlined his work in the various markets
and said that since being stationed at Thetford he had.
investigated twenty-four complaints of cruelty. The following
ofﬁcers were elected: chairman, Mrs Bailey; hon secretary,
Mrs Jones; hon treasurer, Major Burns; committee: Mrs
Witton, Miss Handley, Mr Price, Capt H. M. S. Haughton,
Mrs Champion de Crespigny and Capt E. B. Tudor Jones.
Major F. N. L. Chapman, branch organizer, attended and
spoke at the meeting. The Mayor became the ﬁrst subscriber
to the auxiliary funds.

. , * .

The committee of the Holt Agricultural Show and Gym-
khana has presented to Miss Saunders, Holt auxiliary hon
secretary, a gift of £17 43. 5d. for branch funds.

Norfolk West At the invitation of Mrs Hewlett, show
secretary, Senior Inspector Morrison was invited to attend

. the cat show at the Gaywood Fanciers’ Association at King’s

Lynn. Ofﬁcials of the auxiliary organized a collection at
the show and raised £1 18s. 6d. for branch funds.

Mrs K. Hardy, branch hontecretary, presented the prizes
at the Downham Market pet show held in the grounds of
Mr Melville, headmaster of the Secondary School. Mrs
Bird, chairman of the auxiliary, Mrs Stratton, With other
members of the committee, helped with side shows and
Senior Inspector Morrison was MC and show manager.
Judges were Mrs Hewlett, Mrs Everett and Mr Bunton and
Mr Sparrow. Pens were generously loaned by Mr R. Wilson.
A proﬁt of over £20 was expected.

Oxford The annual jumble sale which was held at the home
gf Mrs Lund, branch hon secretary, raised £47 for branch
unds

Peterborough and District Mrs Hunt—Pain, Whittlesey aux
hon secretary, reports that a bowls tournament and auction
organized by the Whittlesey town Bowls Club ralsed £35
for branch funds.

Rochdale Miss Osborne, branch secretary, reports that a
thrift shop raised £150 for branch funds.

Mrs Chadwick, Animal D‘éenders group leader, reports
that a pet show raised £13 for branch funds. .
Rotherham and District A jumble sale organized by Mrs
Young raised £41 105. for branch funds. . _
Staffordshire North Mrs A. Berry, Stoke-on-Trent auxrliary
hon secretary, reports the following recent events: A sale
at Stoke raised, with donations, £55 12s. 1d. for branch

'. funds; a sale at Maer Hall, by kind permission of Miss

Harrison, raised, with donations, £80 5s. 3d.; the Whltﬁeld
Colliery collection amounted to £14 2.9. .

Streatham, Brixton and Clapham Mlss _M. Tamplm, branch
hon secretary, reports: by kind imitation of the Clapham
Conservative Association, the branch had a stall at the
Association’s annual fete in the grounds of the Henry
Thornton School, Clapham, where much Information was

1

\

given about the work of the RSPCA and leaﬂets were sold. i.

The branch also held a two-day exhibition in the show rooms "
of the South-Eastern Gas Board in Streatham by kind per-
mission of the District Manager, Mr W. Scriven. Inspector
Duck arranged exhibits in the windows and these aroused
great interest and there was a steady stream of visitors
asking for information. Many children bought leaﬂets on
the care of animals. A collection was taken to defray
expenses.
Surrey—Kingston, Surbiton, District and South Middlesex
Mrs Sainsbury, branch secretary, reports: An exemption
dog show was held at Croylands, Surbiton, and raised over
£17 for branch funds. Local veterinary surgeons judged
entries and gave veterinary supervision before exhibitors ,
entered the ground. All classes were well supported and a 1‘

special prize was given to a dog twenty years old. ,1 '
Surrey—Waking and District Miss Walker, branch hon}
secretary, attended a pet show at Chobham School accorrg"
panied by Inspector Beagley who assisted with the judging 4
Torquay and South-East Devon Chief Inspector Buttf“
worth judged entries in the children’s pet show held (I 1" ..
Children’s Week at Paignton. .
Westmorland. A sale of work and garden party was la».
at Horncop, Heversham, the home Of the auxiliary brawn
president, Mrs Ellwood. Following a display of country dar’o
Mrs Boyle, branch hon secretary, gave an address in which ,1 '
paid tribute to the excellent work of Inspector Harland.

was provided by Mrs Ellwood. As a result of the sale at.
garden party £56 was raised for branch funds. ’2
Wiltshire—North The Rector of Blackland St Peterll
Church held an animal service on the eve of St Peter. A jackl.
daw, saved by Mr C. Weston, the churchwarden, was presenﬁ
at the service. Animal pictures were displayed and fou
children from Calstone School read the lessons. The collec—
tion of £2 25. 100'. was divided, half going to Miss Pound,
Calne and District auxiliary hon secretary, for branch funds.

  
   
  
  
  
  
  
   
   
    
   
   
   
 
    
  
   
  
  
    
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
   
 
  
    
  
   
    
 
   
 
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
     
   
  
    
  
  

\

Miss Livingstone, branch president and chairman, pre—
sented to Inspector Hussey an RSPCA medal for gallantry,
awarded to him for his work during the North-East coast

1

Picture] [by courteSy of the Peterborough Citizen & Advertiser

Mrs Hunt-Pain, Whittlesey auxiliary hon secretary, sends
this picture of a show tent arranged by the auxiliary. Mrs-
Hunt-Pain is seated on the left and members of the com-

mittee are standing

 




l
)

1132

l

THE ANIMAL WORLD

 

N Ovember 1953

 

ﬂoods. Thanks were expressed to Inspector Hussey by Miss
'Carrington for all the work he had carried out in the
branch’s area since his appointment three years ago. Miss
Barlow, of Swindon, thanked Miss Livingstone for placing
her residence at their disposal for the presentation ceremony.
Windsor, Eton, Slough, Staines and Uxbridge Mrs Batham,
Wraysbury auxiliary hon secretary, reports that the auxiliary
ﬁlm show raised over £5 for branch funds.
Yorkshire—Bridlington, Malton and District Senior In—
spector Marsh, at the invitation of the headmaster, visited
Rudston School and judged entries in the children’s pet
competition.

Yorkshire—York and District A coffee party and bring—and-
buy sale was held on the lawns at ‘Sunnymead’, Elvington,

x and realized the sum of £23 145. 861. for branch funds,
‘, (Report from Mrs Featherston, member of branch.)

HOUSE—TO—HOUSE COLLECTIONS

  
  
    
  
  
 
   
 

W e give, wherever possible, the place where the collection was
S’Vnized and the name of the collector or collectors.)
" fuisborough, Mrs Hart, Saltburn aux hon sec.,
165. 461.; Skelton, Miss Oliver, aux hon sec, £7 155.;
ald, Mrs Fenn, aux hon sec, £7 165. 561.; Nailsworth,
s Brown, aux hon sec, £8 15.; Oxford, Mrs Lund,
,1, nch hon sec, £294 145. 261.; Colchester, Miss Estcourt—
i" ..'wald, branch hon sec, £90 185. 661.; Maidstone, Mr R. G.
town, branch hon treasurer, £47 25. 161.; Lichborough,
pprs Martin and Miss Howard, £5 175. 461.; Stowmarket,
.vlrs Woolley, aux hon sec, £45 45. 961.; Sherburn, Mrs
Atkinson, aux hon sec, £6 45. 661.; Sudbury, Miss I.

Piggott, £82 145. 761.; Long Melford, Miss Violet Oates,
£7 45. 161.

Photo] [Col. R. M. Powell

Children wait to give their pennies
to Fido at the Camberley Agricul-
tural Show

FLAG DAY
RESULTS

(We give, wherever possible, the place where the Flag Day was

organized and the name of the organizer or organizers.)

Tavistock, £29 55. 761.; Bartonvon'Humber, Mrs Vander—
stock, aux hon sec, £35 ls. 861.; Shanklin, Mrs Pallister—
Young, aux hon sec, £25 105. 1061.; Clovelly, Mrs Coldridge,
£24 175. 2%61.; Burnham—onvSea and District, Mr K. P. G.
Bick, branch hon sec, £25 135. 561.; Highbridge, Mr K. P. G.
Bick, branch hon sec, £7 105. 761.; Hitchin, Miss Denniss,
aux hon sec, £51 195. 261.; Keighley, Miss Stell, aux hon sec,
£59; Llandudno, Miss Unwin, branch hon sec, £211 85. 661.;
Stokesley, Mrs Boyd, aux co hon sec, £125 55. 461.; Shefﬁeld,
Mrs Collier, branch hon sec, £871 05. 361.; Carlisle,
£110 35. 261.; Ventnor and District, Miss I. Jolliffe, aux hon
sec, £5 125. 7%Cl.; St Annes—on—Sea, Councillor E. Hoyle,
aux hon sec, £43 35. 161.; South Harting, Mrs Cooper,
£8 155.; Ashington, Mrs Green, aux hon sec, £8 14s.;
Fittleworth, Mrs Kynoch, aux hon sec, £4 45.; Hull, Mr
Jacobsen, branch secretary, £288 135. 961.; Bromsgrove, Mrs
B. O. Lazenby, aux hon sec, £109 175.; Lurgashall, MISS
Murray, £8; Llangollen, Mrs Gilbert, aux hon sec,
£13 195. 461.; Chirk, £10; Glynceiriog, £4 195.; Trevor and
Garth, £4 115. 961.; Ilkley, Mr Swaine, branch chairman,
£106; Prestatyn, £30; Richmond, Mrs Bunting, aux hon
sec, £38 75.; Barrow—invFurness, £118 145. 961.; Dronﬁeld,
Mrs Granger, co aux hon sec, £34 105.; Hastings, Mrs
Sletcher, branch hon sec, £186 (approx.); Loughborough
(Heather Day), Miss M. Harridge—Cayless, branch hon sec,

£137 155. 461.; Southsea, Mr P. L. Coombe, branch hon sec.,
£363 135.; Chester, Miss N. E. Moreton, Barrow and Tarvin
aux hon sec, £282 105. 461.; Cirencester, £70 95. 361.; lvlon—
mouth, Miss C. Probyn, aux hon sec., £24 95. 261.; Abergav—
enny, Mr A. Boucher, aux hon sec, £78 15. 361.; Newark,
£106 195. 161.; Amble, Mrs Lewis, aux chairman, £41;
St Mawes, Mr C. F. Willmore, aux hon sec, £24 75. 161.;
’Lytham, Miss Lord, aux hon sec, £51 165. 10%61.; Hindley,
£30 185. Z%d.; Neath, Mr Knight, aux hon sec, £96 145.;

' Haverfordwest, £47 155.; Thorne and District, Mrs Branton,

division hon treas, £76; Lancing, Miss E. Tebbutt,
£17 35. 661.; Gateshead, Mrs Lawton, Low Fell aux hon sec,
£95; Caerleon, Mrs Wesley Harris, aux hon sec, £13 185. 461.;
Heywood, Mrs P. Reeve, aux hon sec, £130 15. 461.;
Freshwater, Miss Corbett, co aux hon sec, £96 155.;
Gravesend, Mrs A. Pollen, aux hon sec, £118 165. 161.;
Portscatho, Mrs E. Upham, aux hon sec, £20 125. 461.;
Dartmouth, Miss Walker, aux co hon sec, £53 45. 1d.;
Saltash, Miss Creba, aux hon sec, £34 45. 561.; Henﬁeld,
Mrs Sturt, Aux hon sec, £9; Ashton—under—Lyne, £83 175.;
Altrincham Show, £124 105.; Shrivenham, Mrs Smith,
aux hon sec, £12 15. 661.; Worsborough Bridge, Mrs
Williams, aux hon sec, £18 15. 961.; Doncaster, Mrs Morri—
son, division chairman, £172; Bedlington and Cambois,
Mr C. R. Beaumont, aux hon sec, £79 155. 1061.; Ibstock,
Miss I. Rowley, aux hon sec, £14 135. 661.; Barry,
£59 85. 461.; Penarth, £31 135. 861.; Bridgend, Miss Stocka
wood, aux hon sec, £25 195. 1161.; Pontardawe, Mrs ngin
Lewis, aux hon sec, £22 85. 1161.; Resolven, Mrs Hadley,
aux hon sec, £18 35. 661.; Gower, £37 35. 661.

Hartlepools and District Flag Days: Miss N. McAuslan,
branch hon sec, reports the following results: Horden
Colliery, £17 75. 461.; Easington Colliery, £17 135.; Blackhall
Colliery, £10 125. 1161.; Wingate and Hutton Henry,
£8 75. 1161.; Wheatley Hill, Shotton Colliery and Thornley,
£34 75. 861.; Trimdon Station and Trimdon Grange,

£5 155. 761.; Hartlepool, £40 125. 861.

 

janet, Rex and the RSPCA collecting box in St Pauls Way
Nursery Garden, London Docks, El

 

RSPCA FILM NEWS

RSPCA ﬁlms were sent to the following places for showing
recently:
Blockley, Lamplugh, Exeter, Bristol, Ryde, Plymouth,
Chatham, Seaford, Hereford, Tottenham, Leverington,
Birmingham, Stamford Brook, Rugby, Grimsby, Chard,
Ashton«under—Lyne, Durham City, Middleton, DiStington,
M1ddlesbrough,Wraysbury, Hextable, Hanley Castle, Wen—
lock Edge, Stonebroom, Forest Gate, East Dulwich, Mac—
clesﬁeld, Purley, Gateshead, Barking, Dalton—in—Furness,
Moreton—invMarsh, Huddersﬁeld, Whittlesey.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

RSPCA CHRISTMAS MARKET‘
AND FILM SHOW

will be held at the

SEYMOUR HALL, SEYMOUR PLACE,
LONDON, WI

on the

I8th and l9th November, I953
from I2 Noon to 8 pm. (both days)

Admission . . . |/-

Gifts of all kinds will be accepted with
gratitude. It is usually found that knitwear,
needlework, soft toys, new and second-hand
clothes (if clean and serviceable), trinkets,
jewellery, fruit, vegetables, books and toys (if
clean and workable), all ﬁnd a ready sale.
Can you send a gift, please?

If you are unable to send a gift, can you sell
some admission tickets? The tickets are in ,
books of IO and it is helpful to sell as many
tickets as possible before the function.

Parcels and requests for books of tickets
should be addressed to: Appeals Dept.,
RSPCA, I05 Jermyn Street, London, SWI.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

FLAG-DAY REMINDER

Note to RSPCA Honorary Secretaries

HAVE YOU MADE YOUR
FLAG-DAY APPLICATION
FOR THE
COLLECTION IN I954? I

 

 

 

 

i
___—_

FLAG DAY
GOODS

Celluloid Buttons

LIST ON APPLICATION

THE UNIVERSAL BUTTON CO. LTD.
1-9 Birkbeck Street, Bethnal Green, LONDON, E.2

 

 

 

 

 

TelePhODe: BIShopsgate 5750 Telegrams: ‘Unibutco Edo’

 

I‘S«—— ,
I‘— //

 

What the UP—TO-DATE dog-owner knows——

SCRAPPY FEEDS‘ARE
NO GOOD TO A DOG!

Look at his teeth and see the reason! Designed
for crushing and grinding his food, his teeth show
he needs food that provides nourishment for his
body plus exercise for his jaws and teeth. Table
scraps are not what the canine digestion needs.
‘ What he needs is
something to get his
teeth into! He needs
Spratt’s Biscuits to
sustain him and give
him energy and
vigour.

 
 
  
  
  
      

 
 
 
     

’ . a
I .‘v'v
- _ / ﬁ' 4 ,
. d T "F, ' ‘1)
. V I ,1 f \ '-\‘ ‘3
"W ' ‘ - \‘ \—
‘r/ .V \ -
e
r
I
I
I. l

Spratt’s Guide to Dog Manag
ment, 88 pages, on all aspec.
SI of Dog Ownership. From
your Spratt’s stockist, U6, 0
HS post free from Dept. A.W.
at the address below.

‘ ‘
See the name 6‘! ‘
SPRATT’S on Biscuits (Li

L:

and Package 1
S P R A T T’ S

ﬁﬂh‘bnoe FOODS

BONIO ' MIXED OVALS ' WEETMEET
SPRATT’S PATENT LTD, 4I-47 BOW ROAD, E3

 

 

 

 

TEMPLE COX CAPTIVE‘

BOLT SLAUGHTERING
GUNS

Specially recommended and used by the RSPCA

THREE MODELS—ALL SILENT IN
ACTION

‘UNIVERSAL’ for all animals
‘SMALLS’ for all small animals
‘MARK 6’ for all animals. Designed for heavy

use in large Abattoirs and Freezing Works

TEMPLE COX DEVELOPMENT CO. LTD
HIGH STREET, BROMLEY, KENT

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

@NEE‘CCDRMS

Manufacturers of
UNIFORM CLOTHING

HOBSON & SONS CAPS HELMETS LEATHER
(LONDON) LTD

BELTS POUCHES etc. etc.

 

Gold and Silver Laces
Embroideries of every
All enquiries to descrlptlon for ALL

154-164 TOOLEY STREET UNIFORMED SERVICES

 

LONDON BRIDGE S.E.1 PATTERNS OF CLOTH
and ESTIMATES

Telephone: HOP 2476 (4 lines) will be forwarded free of charge

Telegrams: HOBSON, BOROH, LONDON

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

R.S.P.C.A=

 

FORM OF BEQUEST FOR NATIONAL WORK

To those benevolent individuals who may wish to become benefactors byWill to this

Society, the following form is respectfully suggested:—

‘I bequeath to the ROYAL SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS, founded

1824, for the general purposes of that Society, the sum of £ ............................................ , free

of death duty and the receipt of the Treasurer for the time being of the said Society shall
be suﬁicient discharge for such legacy.’ (If it should be desired that the legacy should be ex’

pended on some particular phase of the Society’s work, a direction to this eﬁect may be added to the

form of bequest.)

 

NOTE

By the Act of William IV and I Victoria, cap. 26, all Wills or Codicils must be in Writing signed by the

Testator, and attested by two witnesses in the presence of the Testator and of each other.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Printed by Shenval Press,

Simson Shand Ltd, of Parliament Square, Hertford, and
published by Arthur W.

Moss for the RSPCA at 105 Jermyn Street, London, SW1

 




