 

July 1955 THEANIMALWORLD 79

TWO RESCUES TOLD IN PICTURES

 

E A

 

gear ‘ b \( . _.,,..

A Police Constable and RSPCA lnspector Liversedge risked RSPCA Inspector Heath worked With the County Fire
their lives hanging by ropes over the edge of a disused Service for hours to free a horse trapped to its shoulders in
quarry at Cowshill, Weardale, to rescue a lamb who, for thick black mud on the bed of the Stroudwater Canal.
0 week, had been stranded on a narrow ledge. Inspector Heath packed straw POUDd the horse Whilst a

sling was made from two lengths of hose to be passed
underneath the animal’s head and neck.

"0' . . .. . 3'

   
    
   

 

m

The Police Constable and the lnspector were lowered to the
ledge and with difficulty secured the lamb who was hauled .. , r k. , g . _ ,_ y H g.
to safety by volunteers. A crane then hoisted the animal high enough for a rope to
be passed right under the horse.

     

 

The rescue was. directed by Chief inspector Baxter who is

seen congratulating the Police Constable after the rescue: ‘
Notice t‘ ’ 'ons which made the rescue arti- - .

culariy hagzrsgggy conditt P Freed at last, the animal was seen by a veterinary surgeon.

. ' St
Photos by courtesy of the Northern Echo] ' [PhOtos by courtesy Of the row journal

 




 

 

 

 

ANIMALTHEWORLD

THE OFFICIAL MAGAZINE OF THE RSPCA

 

 

Vol L No 7 New Series

JULY 1955

PRICE THREEPENCE

4s. 6d. per annum. Post Paid

 

 

CRUELTY IN SECRET

Quick retribution awaits the cruel person who,
in a fit of anger, aims a wounding blow at some
defenceless animal. Like the sadist, who practises
cruelty in public View, the angry person acts with
out thinking of the consequences. His act is wit—
nessed by some publinspirited person who will
report it to the RSPCA. Swiftly, the law is in—
voked; justice is done, and a salutary lesson is
given to a wrongdoer who learns to his cost that
animals have vigilant champions. ‘

Were all cruelty to ﬂaunt itself with the
same insolence, the time would soon come
when animal suffering twould be abolished.

Public wrongs are shortvlived wrongs, but the
crimes committed in quiet places, the sufferings
borne behind locked doors, are more difficult to
check. Perhaps in this reﬂection we see in part
an answer to the question: ‘Why, after we have
had an RSPCA for 131 years, is animal suffering

still so common?’ '

The truth is that, although the Statute
Book contains many enlightened laws, civi—

lized reﬁnement has not penetrated the hearts
of all—though anyone who has read of the
cruelty practised on animals in past ages
must be aware of how general standards have
improved.

A glance at recent prosecutions taken by the
RSPCA shows that the greatest number fall
under the heading of neglect. Not wantonness,
but slothful indifference to the responsibilities of
animal ownership gives rise to cruelty in secret.

The very number of prosecutions for neglect
shows that despite their secret nature many
such acts of cruelty are brought to light by the
diligence of the RSPCA and its well—wishers.

However, there can be no total abolition ofucruelty
in secret without the spread of such enlightenment as
will ensure that it is not committed. For this reason,
whilst seeking to expose all possible acts of cruelty,
the RSPCA rightly devotes much energy to its educa—
tional and propagandist activities. The arm of
animal’protection law is long; the arm of humane
education reaches necessarily an inch or two farther.

EDITOR

 

COW ‘LYING IN A CESSPOOL’

A farmer was ﬁned £l0 at Darlington and
ordered to pay £20 IOs. costs for causing
unnecessary suffering to a cow by failing
to give her proper treatment and attention.

A solicitor prosecuting for the RSPCA
said that the cow had not received proper
attention for twelve days and should have
had expert treatment. Two workmen said
that they had seen the cow lying in a field
near the works. One witness said that at
ﬁrst the cow seemed to be receiving atten-
tion, but later she was lying ‘in a cesspool’.

Senior lnspector Baxter said that the
cow was screened by some corrugated
sheeting and sacking. She appeared to have
been lying in one position for some time. In
the ﬁrst place she had been bedded down
with straw, but dung had never been re-
moved. lt was up to her middle and her legs
were not showing. There was evidence that
she had been fed.

 

The farmer told him: ‘lf you think she should be put down, that is all right’.
A veterinary surgeon said that the cow’s neck was spattered with mud and the tarpaulin was embedded, in the dirt on either

side. He advised a humane end, which was given.

When the cow was moved, ulcers could be seen on the lower part of the body and there was a very deep ulcer on the breast-

bone. It struck him that there had been gross neglect.

A solicitor, in defence, said that the farmer had done everything to keep the cow going and to build her up. She was worth
£50. He was hoping for a fine day when it might have been possible to get her on her feet. (A.8372)

 




lncorpmrating “The Winged Messenger9

 

VOLUME L No 7 THREEPEN CE , Y 1955

[Picture by courtesy of Fact Photography

“ WHAT WAS THAT?”

 




 

 

 

 

 

July 1955

THEANIMALWORLD 83

 

 

Ruck reported that he had investigated 211 complaints of
cruelty during the past year. Major Chapman addressed th

meeting on the general work of the RSPCA. .'

Shropshire Mrs Meredith, branch hon sec, reports that an
Animal Lovers’ Service was conducted by the Rev Preb
L. J. B. Snell, RSPCA Council Member. A collection taken
in aid of branch funds amounted 'to £4.

Suffolk—West, and Bury St Edmunds Mrs D. H. White,
Bury St Edmunds aux hon sec, reports that Mrs W. Hares
organized a concert and raised £9 for branch funds.

Vale of Mowbray The Viscountess Swinton, branch presi—
dent and chairman, who took the chair at the branch annual
meeting held in the Zion Schoolroom, Northallerton, was
supported by Miss Sharples, the retiring branch hon sec.
Miss V. A. Jackson was elected the new branch hon sec.
Lt-Col Coventry spoke on the work of the RSPCA. Mr J.
Tweedie, branch hon treasurer, presented the ﬁnancial report.

*

Miss Jackson organized a bring and buy sale in her home

(Scruton House) and raised £15 for branch funds. Among
those present were Lady Hunter, branch vice-president, and
Mr Tweedie.
Westmorland At the branch annual meeting the Chief
Constable of Cumberland and Westmorland presented
RSPCA medals and certiﬁcates to several people for their
courage and humanity. Col R. M. Powell, RSPCA Council
Member, who was present, was elected a vice-president of
the branch. Mrs E. Crewdson, branch vice-chairman, pre-
sented the Society’s silver meritorious service badge to Mrs
Powell for special services. Other ofﬁcers elected were: Lady
Chance, president; Mrs Crewdson, chairman; Mrs Mair,
vice-chairman; Mr Leslie N. Cross, hon treasurer, and Mrs
Boyle, hon secretary.

Miss C. Wharton, Windermere and Troutbeck auxiliary
hon sec, organized a bring and buy sale and raised £63 2s.
for branch funds.

Yorkshire—Barnsley and District Mr G. Parﬁtt, Chief
Constable of Barnsley, took the chair at the branch annual
meeting. In his Speech he appealed for collectors for Barnsley
ﬂag day. Mr Bernard S. Habbershon, branch hon sec, pre-
sented his report and Mr T. W. Smithson, branch hon
treasurer, presented the statement of accounts which showed
a reduction at bank since the beginning of the year. Senior
Inspector Tillett presented his report, which showed that he
had investigated 175 complaints of cruelty to animals. .
Yorkshire—Bradford and District Mrs Burrows, proprietor
of the Manor Cafe, organized a whist drive in the cafe and
raised £8 for branch funds. A jumble sale raised £15.
Yorkshire—Harrogate and District At the Wetherby and
Harewood auxiliary annual meeting held in the Town Hall,
Wetherby, Mrs J. W. Ford, auxiliary chairman, took the
chair, supported by Major H. M. Taylor, aux Vice-chairman,
and Mr E. Tempest, aux hon sec. Among those present were
Alderman G. A. Spenceley, branch chairman; Mr A. S. C.
Newman, branch hon treasurer, and Mr G Barrer, branch
hon sec. Lt-Col Coventry spoke on the work of the RSPCA.

Coun Don M. Christelow, Mayor of Harrogate, spoke at
the branch annual meeting, held at the Hotel St George,
Harrogate. He also presented the RSPCA certiﬁcate of merit
to Michael Allen for rescuing his pet Labrador and her eight
puppies from a ﬁre. Mr G. Barrer, in his report, congratu-
lated the branch auxiliaries for the excellent work they dld
during 1954. Mr A. S. C. Newman, branch hon treasurer,
read his report, which showed that the branch had had a very
successful ﬁnancial year. Mr D. A. L. Camm, Assrstant Secre-
tary from Headquarters, addressed the meeting, and con-
gratulated members and ofﬁcials on the excellent work they
were doing. Senior Inspector Jackson reported that he had
investigated 71 complaints of cruelty to animals. Ofﬁcers re-
elected were: Chairman, Ald G. A. Spenceley; Vice-chair-
man, Mr P. Hale; hon secretary, Mr G. Barrer; hon treas,
Mr A. S. C. Newman.

 

Mrs Donovan, branch hon sec of Essex—Mid, Brentwood,
Chelmsford, Romford and District, sends this picture which
she has had published in local newspapers in an effort to
teach the public not to abandon female kittens. There are
seven in the picture and they were brought to Mrs Donovan
in the space of ten days.

FLAG DAYS

Branches organizing Flag Days are reminded it is advis-
able to order their equipment at an early date, preferably
about four weeks before the collection is to take place. Early
ordering is not only of assistance to Headquarters but helps
branches in the distribution of supplies to collectors, allow-
ing sufﬁcient time in which to obtain additional equipment if
necessary. ’

While Headquarters will always do everything possible to
meet late orders it will be appreciated in such cases there can
be no guarantee that supplies will arrive in time.

Provincial Flag Day Organizers are also asked to be good
enough to return their materials as soon as possible after the
collection to facilitate re-labelling of tins, etc., for further use.

HOUSE—TO-HOUSE COLLECTIONS

Branches are reminded that House-to-House Collections
are an excellent substitute for a Flag Day. These collections
can be made with tin, envelope or receipt book, and as the
RSPCA has an Order of Exemption from the Home Ofﬁce,
it is not necessary to obtain a permit from the Police for
the collection; it is, however, advisable to consult the local
Police as to the date, in order to ensure the collection does not
clash with a similar effort organized by another charity.
Headquarters will gladly give branches further details on
application.

 

ANIMAL WAYS

A bright animal magazine
for children.

Pictures, informative articles,
cartoon, puzzles.

Price ld. per month.

Yearly subscription, 25. 6d.,
including postage.

Published by: RSPCA, .
|05 Jermyn Street, London, S.W.l.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

Manufacturers of

@NEF'CODRMS

HOBSON & SONS CAPS HELMETS LEATHER

BELTS POUCHES etc. etc
(LONDON) LTD
Gold and Silver Laces

Embroideries of every
All enquiries to description for ALL

154-164 TOOLEY STREET UNIFORMED SERVICES

LONDON BRIDGE S.E.1 PATTERNS OF CLOTH I
and ESTIMATES
Telephone: HOP 2476 (4 lines) will be forwarded free of charge
Telegrams: HOBSON, BOROH, LONDON

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

R=S.P.C.A.

 

 

 

 

 

 

FORM OF BEQUEST FOR NATIONAL WORK

To those benevolent individuals who may wish to become benefactors by Will to this
Society, the following form is respectfully suggested:—

‘I bequeath to the ROYAL SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS, founded
1824, for the general purposes of that Society, the sum of £ .......................................... , free
of death duty and the receipt of the Treasurer for the time being of the said Society shall
be sufﬁcient discharge for such legacy.’ (If it should be desired that the legacy should be ex'
pended on some particular phase of the Society’s «work, a direction to this effect may be added to the

form of bequest.)

 

NOTE
By the Act of William IV and 1 Victoria, cap. 26, all Wills or Codicils must be in Writing signed by the

Testator, and attested by two witnesses in the presence of the Testator and of each other.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

July 1955

 

 

THEANIMALWORLD 81

 

the previous year’s income. Mrs Hill, branch hon sec, re-
ported that the branch had again had asuccessful year. Mr H.
Winstanley was elected branch chairman. Major R. C. G.
Hancock, Chief Veterinary Ofﬁcer from Headquarters, ad-
dressed the meeting on the work of the RSPCA. Inspector
Coles reported that he and Senior Inspector Goodenough
had investigated 162 complaints of cruelty to animals. Many
branch auxiliaries were represented and their reports read.
' Buckinghamshire Mrs Tew, Newport Pagnell aux hon sec,

reports that a jumble sale raised over £48 for branch funds.

Miss Moors, Winslow auxiliary hon sec, organized a

rummage sale and raised £38 73. 3 . ‘ ,
Chiswick and District Mrs Du Rose, Acton aux hon
sec, organized two small whist drives and raised £2 16s..
for branch funds.
Coventry and District Mrs D’Arcy Tremlett, Nuneaton
aux hon sec, reports that the annual meeting was a great
success and Major Chapman presented RSPCA awards to
three ﬁremen and three children. Among those present were
the Mayor and Mayoress and the Deputy Mayor and
Mayoress.

*

A dancing display, presented by Miss Audrey Spiers,
Principal of the Andree School of Dance, given by the pupils
of the Andree School of Dance, raised £45 123. 6d. for
branch funds.

Crowborough, East Grinstead and District Mrs Ogden pre-
sided over the branch annual meeting, which was addressed
by Mrs Beaumont and Inspector Luetchford. (Report re-
ceived from Major C. A. Ogden, branch hon sec.)
Dorset—South Senior Inspector Horner addressed students
at the N7 Police Training Centre on various aspects of
animal welfare. '
Durham—Hartlepools and District The branch annual meet-
ing was held in the Municipal Buildings, West Hartlepool,
and Mr T. H. Tilly, branch chairman, presided. A report was
submitted by Miss McAuslan, branch hon sec, and the
branch hon treasurer, Mr J. R. Thompson, reported a credit
balance of £23. Mrs Mungo Campbell, Newcastle-upon-
Tyne branch president, addressed the meeting, and Inspector
Spencer reported that he had investigated 6] complaints of
cruelty. RSPCA bronze medals were presented by Mrs
Campbell to Mr G. Bannister and Mr R. Stout for their
rescue of a pit pony at Horden Colliery, and a certiﬁcate of
merit was presented to Mr G. Bennett for rescuing a puppy
from a frozen pond.

Exeter, East and West Devon A whist drive organized by
Miss Vyvyan of Pinhoe, in aid of Exeter clinic and kennels,
raised £40 ls.

RSPCA ﬁlms were shown to members of Crediton Animal
Defenders at the Palace Cinema. Also attending the show
were children of Haywards School. Mrs Luxton, aux hon
sec, said a few words to the children, and Sir Patrick Fer-
gusson Davy presented the prizes awarded in the Animal
Defenders’ essay competition.

Finchley, Golders Green, Hendon and District Mr and .Mrs
Campling, co hon sees for Finchley (North) auxiliary,
grlganized a jumble sale and raised £27 for East Finchley
' mic.

Glamorgan—Mid and Port Talbot Miss Rees, branch hon
sec, reports that a collection at a football match raised £13
for branch funds and a jumble sale £17.

.Mrs V. L. Hands, Porthcawl auxiliary hon sec, reports that
a jumble sale raised over £67.
Gloucester City and District and Forest of Dean Mr Percy
Aas, branch chairman, reports that Miss St John gave a
most interesting talk at the branch annual meeting. .
Hampshire—Romsey The Vicar of Romsey tOOk the Chalr
at the 'branch annual meeting held in the Church Hall,
Romsey. Mrs Wallis Power, RSPCA Vice-Chalrman, spoke
encouraging words to ofﬁcials and members present. Mrs
Buxton was elected president of the branch. MISS Collins,

branch hon sec, presented her report. Among those present
was Mrs Lombard Hobson, hon sec Hampshire—Winchester
branch. '

Hampshire—South, and Portsmouth At the branch annual
meeting Engineer Rear-Admiral A. K. Dibley, branch chair-
man, presiding, presented ‘Flulfy’, the cat who saved three
human lives, with a plaque. Mr P. L. Coombe, branch hon
sec, presented his report. Miss Sharples raised £2 103. for
the branch at the meeting.

Hertfordshire—West A sale organized by Mrs Cochrane,
Radlett aux hon sec, raised £35 for branch funds.
Kent—Ashford and District Denis Folwell—Jack Archer in
the BBC programme ‘The Archers’——gave an interesting talk
at the Ashford Corn Exchange, and £1 13., part of the
collection taken, was given to Branch funds.

 

Friends—

a snap sent by
Mrs Ralph,
Hayes.

Kent—Canterbury and District Mrs Dance, branch hon
sec, and committee members organized a rummage sale at
the Methodist Hall, Canterbury, and raised £20 for branch
funds. ‘

Miss V. Slingsbury, Whitstable aux hon sec, organized a
jumble sale with the help of her mother and Mr Dadd, and
raised £44 143. for branch funds,

Kent—Dover and District Mrs Price, branch hon sec, re-
ports that a jumble sale held in the Temple Ewell Parish Hall
raised £17 Os. 7d. for branch funds.

Kent—Folkestone, and District Mr Grace, branch chair-
man, Mrs Grace, branch hon sec, and Mrs Walton organized
a concert at the Town Hall, Folkestone, in aid of branch
funds. Inspector Wolfenden and Mrs Wolfenden were
present. The sum of £38 6s. 9d. was raised.

Mrs Grace reports that. a collecting box has raised over
£5 in the last six months.

Inspector Wolfenden addressed probationers of the No 6
District Police Training Centre, Sandgate, on the protection
of animals.

Kent—Mid, Maidstone and District Mrs Simmonds,branch
hon sec, reports that a jumble sale held in the branch clinic
raised £24 123. 3d. for branch funds.

Kent—North-West Mrs Dowdell, RSPCA Council member,
presented the RSPCA bronze medal and citation to Fireman
G. T. Young at the branch annual meeting held in the
YMCA, Dartford. Fireman Young rescued a Labrador
retriever from a 100 ft. dene-hole at Wood Street, Swanley.
Mr W. Honess, branch chairman. paid tribute to the Fire
Service and the Police Force. Mrs W. Honess, branch hon
sec, in her report, said that the branch had again had an ex-
cellent year, and Mr W. J. Chambers, branch hon treasurer,
reported a balance of £1,462 3s. 4d. Regional Supt R.
Stephens reported that he had investigated 165 complaints
of cruelty.

Kent—Tunbridge Wells and District By kind permission of
the Mayor, Alderman J. A. McNab, the branch annual

 

 

 




 

 

 

July 1955

THEANIMALWORLD 77

 

 

LINDA, THE LAMB

It will be recalled that, some three years ago, an
infant lamb was found on a London common
and brought to Headquarters by the police.

‘ Later, she found her way to the RSPCA Mayhew

Home, where she was reared on a baby’s bottle,
ﬁlled with a patent brand of baby food, whilst
plans for her future were being discussed.

After a week or so had elapsed, during which
time she had been formally christened Linda, a
very pleasant home was found for her near
Henley’oanhames and she became the beloved
pet of the small inmates of an Invalid Children’s
Convalescent Home. Here an aged gardener made
her his special charge, putting her to bed each
night in a cosy barn and giving her a bedtime
bottle of warm, creamy milk. In the daytime,
Linda joined the children at their play, lining up
with them when sweets were handed out and
thoroughly enjoying her own share of goodies.
When the boys and girls were busy with lessons,
or otherwise engaged indoors, Linda liked to
play with the Warden in his drawing room, or
to have a heart—to—heart talk with the Warden’s
wife.

This happy life had to end, however, when the
Convalescent Home closed down in October and
poor Linda—now a grown—up sheep of three
years old—was returned to her legal guardians at
RSPCA Headquarters with the request that a
new home be found for her. Preparations were
made at Ningwood to receive "this woolly pen,
sioner and she was soon installed in a ﬁeld of
her own, with a goat to keep her company, a little
house to sleep in and cow cake and other dainties
in her larder. Linda, however, went on hunger
strike and it became only too evident, at the
end of her ﬁrst week’s stay, that Linda was home»
sick. In vain did the Manager of the Home tempt
her with cake from his own kitchen and other
sweetmeats; she simply stood and stared into

the distance, seeming to look for the faces she
had grown to love.

At last there came urgent word to RSPCA
Headquarters from Ningwood, saying ‘She is
fretting for the gardener, and she will die if she is
left here.’ Headquarters lost no time in contacting
the gardener, whose love for Linda was so great
that he travelled to the Isle of Wight that very

ay.

According to ﬁrstvhand reports from the staff,
he received an enthusiastic welcome from his pet,
who could not do enough to show her joy at the
reunion. Two days later, the Society’s ambulance
collected Linda and 'took her back to Henley’ona
Thames, to live happy ever after with her friend
the gardener.

E. F. K.

 

Photo] [Courtesy News of the World
Linda takes a stroll

 

RSPCA AND NSPCC

Visitors to RSPCA Headquarters are familiar
with the Board—room plaque, ‘which commemo—
rates the early association of the Society with the
NSPCC in these words:

‘This plaque commemorates the close asso’
ciation of the National Society for the Preven’
tion of Cruelty to Children and the Royal
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals
in their common cause of humanity and mercy.

‘The Executive Committee of the NSPCC
when ﬁrst formed in 1884 frequently met in
this room, one of its most active members
being John Colam, Chief Secretary of the
RSPCA.

‘Erected in 1951.’

A recent review in the Manchester Guardian of

‘The Prevention of Cruelty to Children’ (Cape,
285.) gives fresh proof of how the beginnings of
the children’s society were helped forward by
animal lovers.

‘Seventy—three years ago,’ (says the reviewer)
‘Samuel Smith, then an MP for Liverpool, was
so inﬂamed by the reading of reports on children’s
societies in America that, at a meeting of the
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals
held at the Liverpool Town Hall, he . . . made . . .
an appeal for the setting up of a Home for

Children.

‘From that meeting sprang the Liverpool
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children;
a year later, in 1884, the London (later to become
the National) Society for, the Prevention of
Cruelty to Children was founded.’

 




 

 

 

July 1955

GROUP XIII CONFERENCE _

That over ﬁfty delegates should make what was,
for many of them, the long journey to Scar,
borough for their ﬁfteenth post—war Conference,
is indicative of the interest and enthusiasm with
which this Group as a whole is inspired.

The chair was taken by the Rev J. R. Trotter
(Deputy Chairman of the Scarborough Branch),
who was supported by the Chief Secretary of the
Society (Mr Arthur W. Moss), the Branch
Organizer (Lt’Col E. G. Coventry), the Group
Representative (Mrs J. W. Harvey), and the
Hon Secretary of the Scarborough Branch (Mr
Norman Beanland). In addition, the Conference
was honoured by the presence of another Mem—
ber of the Society’s Council (the Rev Prebendary
L. J. B. Snell), whose contributions to the subse—
quent discussions were greatly appreciated.

His Worship the Mayor of Scarborough
(Councillor Miles Bird) accorded the Conference
a civic welcome.

The Rev Trotter prefaced his opening remarks
by inviting the delegates to join in a brief prayer
for the animal creation.

Introducing his Report, the Group Hon Secre—
tary (Mr Stanley G. Watson) welcomed, in
particular, the Rev Prebendary Snell and ex—
pressed appreciation of his interest in the Group.
He welcomed, also, the Chief Secretary and the
Branch Organizer. After dealing with the various
Reports which he had circulated he expressed his
gratitude to the Hon Secretary of the Scar~
borough Branch for the assistance he had given in
arranging the venue and the Conference gener—
ally. In conclusion, he offered the congratulation
of all the delegates to Mrs Harvey on her re—
appointment, as Group Representative on the
Council.

Mrs'Harvey thanked the delegates for their re—
newal of conﬁdence in her and assured them of
her anxiety to do everything within her power as
their Representative on the Council.

The Group Hon Secretary then introduced the
discussion on the decisions taken by the Council
on the resolutions passed at the Autumn 1954
Conference of the Group, and the Conference
then proceeded to deal with the various resolu—
tions and discussions which constituted the
major portion of a lengthy and interesting agenda.

Time restricted the number of questions which
normally conclude these conferences, and after
the Chief Secretary had dealt with as many as
possible, the Chairman—with obvious reluctance
—announced that the sand in the hour—glass had
run out. LtvCol Coventry, the Branch Organizer,
undertaking for the ﬁrst time the function so
happily discharged by his predecessor in ofﬁce,
proposed a comprehensive vote of thanks which
the delegates warmly endorsed. -

THEANIMALWORLD 75

WONDERFUL

A pupil at one Secondary Modern School wrote:
‘Our headmaster recently introduced us to a lady
from the RSPCA who gave a splendid lecture on
animals. After hearing this wonderful person I
wondered if you could let me have an Animal
Defender ,badge.’

The pupil was writing after an RSPCA school
lecture, one of 189 given in Devon, Merionethr
shire, Denbighshire, Hertfordshire, Lancashire,
Newbury area, Dover, Deal, Oxford, Ardingly,
Buxton and the London area.

Fifty new Animal Defender groups were
formed; 730 children joined the Headquarters
Group.

    

Amma Defenders take part in a Civic Week Procession—
photo sent by Mrs johnson, hon sec of Northenden and
Wythenshawe auxiliary

GROUP XIV CONFERENCE

About 70 delegates from Cumberland, Westmorv
land, Durham, Northumberland, and Yorkshire
attended the Group XIV conference held at
Windermere. Alderman A. J. Alsop, RSPCA
Council Member, presided. Among those present
were: Mrs C. Boyle (Westmorland Branch hon
sec), the Mayoress of Appleby (Mrs Betts), the
Mayoress of Kendal (Mrs Dent), Mrs E. Crewd—
son (Westmorland Branch chairman), Mr J. A.
Palmer (Chairman Windermere UDC), the
Mayor of Appleby (Councillor F. E. Betts),
Inspector M. Harland (Westmorland Branch),
Colonel E. G. Coventry (Branch Organizer), the
Mayor of Kendal (Councillor C. C. Dent), and
the Chief Constable of Westmorland (Mr
J. S. H. Gaskain).

OBITUARY

With sincere regret we report the death of Mrs

Mobberley, former hon secretary of Stourbridge
Branch. ‘

 

CARDS AND CALENDARS
Please see advertisement on back cover

 




 

ROYAL SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS
Founded 1824 Headquarters: 105 Jermyn Street, London, S.W.1

P A T R O N S
HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN
HER MAJESTY QUEEN ELIZABETH, THE QUEEN MOTHER
HER ROYAL HIGHNESS PRINCESS ALICE COUNTESS OF ATHLONE
HER ROYAL HIGHNESS PRINCESS ARTHUR OF CONNAUGHT

PRESIDENT
PROFESSOR GILBERT MURRAY, OM, MA, DLItt, DCL, FBA

VICE-PRESIDENTS
SIR MALCOLM SARGENT, HON LLD, D MUS, FRCM, FRSA

THE EARL OF SHAFTESBURY, KP, PC COLONEL R. M. POWELL, DSO

THE COUNCIL

Chairman: THE RT HON LORD MERTHYR, DL, TD, JP
Vice-Chairman: *MRS WALLIS POWER, JP

 

 

 

*ALLIBER r, MRS FREEMAN, PETER, ESQ, MP *RATTRAY, R. F., ESQ, MA, PH.D
*ALSOP, ALDERMAN A. J., FRCA, FCIS, JP GREENWOOD, ANTHONY, ESQ, MA, MP RISELEY, MRS. R. C
ANDERSON, L. K., ESQ., MRCVS, DVM. *HARVEY, MRS J. W., MA *RIECK, H. H., ESQ
BERTIE OF THAME, THE RT HON THE VISCOUNTESS HOGG, S. R., ESQ, DSO, MC SHAFTESBURY, THE RT HON THE COUNTESS OF
BRANSOM, MISS L. G., FRSA HOWELL, BASIL P. ESQ., MBE SIBLY, W. A., ESQ, MA, JP
BYWATER, H. E., ESQ, MRCVS *HUNTER. MISS SNELL THE REV PREBENDARY L. J. 3., MBE, TD, JP
*COOPER. ALDERMAN J. D., JP LEE, MRS E. M- *TAIT, MRS, MA
DAWES, CAPTAIN H. W., CBE, MRCVS LOCKWOOD, LT-COL J. C., JP, TD TUFNELL, LIEUT-COMMANDER R. 1..., MA, RN
DORCHESTER, LT-COL THE RT HON LORD, OBE, JP LONGMAN, MRS W. *WALFORD, MR5 DESBOROUGH
*DOWDELL, MRS M. R. MOORE, LT-COL SIR THOMAS, CBE, MP *WHITE, HARRY. ESQ., FCA
ESTCOURT-OSWALD. MISS AGNES, MB (LOND), DPH POULETT, THE RT HON THE EARL WILLERT, SIR ARTHUR, KBE
(CANTAB), DOMS POWELL, COL R- M-, DSO *WILLIAMS, THE REV. H. L.
*EVANS, MRS DAVID, BA *PRITCHARD, MRS *wINCHESTER, F. J., ESQ, FCIS, FSS

* Denotes Branch Representative

 

OFFICE BEARERS APPOINTED BY THE COUNCIL

Hon Treasurer—LT-COL J. C. LOCKWOOD, JP, TD, MP
Deputy Hon Treasurer—HARRY WHITE, ESQ, FCA
Hon Medical Ofﬁcer—A. N. CRAWFORD, ESQ, FRCSI
Bankers—MESSRS COUTTS AND CO, STRAND, LONDON

Auditors—MESSRS VINEY, PRICE AND GOODYEAR,

Chief Secretary—ARTHUR w. MOSS. ESQ, MBE, ACIS

Assistant Secretary—D. A. L. CAMM, ESQ, BA

Legal Secretary—J. HALL, ESQ

Chief Veterinary Ofﬁcer—MAJOR R. C. G. HANCOCK, BSC, MRCVS

CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS

Telegrams—WHITEHALL 7177 Telephone—Whitehall 7177

iusrn amusILLIInL WORlD ovm

 

ADVERTISER’S ANNOUNCEMENT
‘OUR CATS’, the popular monthly magazine that spans
7 the world of Cat Lovers. Every issue contains interesting and
me _ ; helpful articles by experts, general interest features and
~ _ wonderful pictures. A splendid gift for a Cat Lover any-
where. Subscription rate ”5. 6d. for l2 issues (Specimen
copy ls. 7d. post free), from4 Carlton Mansions, Clapham
Road, London, SW9

  

 

FLAG DAY
G ODDS

Celluloid Buttons

LIST ON APPLICATION

THE UNIVERSAL BUTTON CO. LTD.

1-9 Birkheck Street, Bethnal Green, LONDON, E.2
Telephone: BIShopsgate 5750 Telegrams: ‘Unibutco EdO'

  
  

    

    
   

 

\IN‘
SIMPLE.»
‘ SAFE" "
_ SURE 7].”.me Xﬂ

CAPTIVE BOLT PISTOL
FOR ALL ANIMALS

 

 

'H
Iccus AND sunvoxi LII - BIRMINGHAM - s ' ENGLAND
5456

 

 

 




 

74 ' THEANIMALWORLD

July 1955

THE RSPCA AT WORK

MAY 1955
RSPCA INSPECTORS

2,376 Complaints of cruelty investigated.
2 Oﬂenders imprisoned.
108 Offenders ﬁned.
47 Persons guilty of minor acts of cruelty cautioned in writing.
844 Registered cautions were administered by Inspectors.

CLASSIFICATION OF CONVICTIONS
HORSES—Working in an unﬁt state, neglecting, etc. 13
DONKEY—Neglecting 1

CATTLE—Neglecting, starving, conveying and exposing
for sale in an unﬁt state

SHEEP—Neglecting, killing in an improper manner 4
PIGS—Neglecting ... . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
DOGS—Neglecting, shooting and wounding, kicking, etc. 20
CATS—Neglecting, shooting and wounding .. 7
BOWLS—Neglecting, conﬁning in unsuitable receptacles 2
DUCK—~Maliciously killing .. 1
PIGEONS—Neglecting, conveying in an improper manner 4
WILD BIRD (captive )——Allowing to be attacked by hawk 1
OFFENCES UNDER THE PROTECTION OF BIRDS ACT, 1954:
Conﬁning birds in small cages 6
Being in possession of recently taken birds 4
Offering for sale other than a close-ringed specimen ,

bred in captivity . 8
Using traps 1
Using bird lime 3

VARIOUS OEEENCES:
Laying poison 3
Infringements of the Slaughter of Animals (Pigs)

Act, 1953 2
Infringements of the Diseases of Animals Act, 19 50 4
Infringements of the Transit of Animals (A) Order,

1931 n. H. H. H. H. u. 1
Permitting in oﬁences 6
Aiding and abetting in oﬁences 2
Causing in an oﬁence 1

TOTAL NUMBER OF CONVICTIONS... 110

1

During MAY, 1955, Magistrates, at the request of the RSPCA,
disqualiﬁed NINE persons from owning a dog or holding a dog
licence. Disqualiﬁcations were as follows:

ONE for 12 months: THREE for 5 years: TWO for 3 years:
THREE for life.

In MAY, 1955, TWO persons were disqualiﬁed under the Pro—
tection of Animals (Amendment) Act, 1954:
Disqualiﬁed for FIVE years from keeping pigs.

Total number of COMPLAINTS from January Ist ‘ 11,749
Total number of CONVICTIONS from January Ist 536
Total number of CAUTIONS from January Ist 4,323

HEADQUARTERS CLINICS

Number of animals handled:
Cats 4,563 Dogs 3,741 N'Iiscellaneous 995 Total 9,299

. Number of animals given emergency ﬁrst—aid: 1.985

PUTNEY CONVALESCENT WARD

Number of animals handled:

Cats 30 Dogs 104 Miscellaneous 0 Total 134

NIGHT STAFF

Number of calls received: 1,891
Iinles covered by ambulances in respect of urgent calls: 2,451
Number of animals rescued: 9

Number of cases treated by veterinary surgeon: 202

NORTH WALES UNIT

Firstvaid cases:

Cats 22 Dogs 38 Miscellaneous 5 Total 65
Number of animals handled by the Unit:
Cats 158 Dogs 88 Micesllaneous 5 Total 251
Number of miles covered by the Unit: 2,250
AWARDS
Cases considered 55
Silver Medals 2
Bronze Medals 11
Certiﬁcates 24
Margaret Wheatley Cross 1

RECORDS FOR 1954

INSPECTION
COMPLAINTS . 27 790
CONVICTIONS ’872
CAUTIONS 9,657
'HEADQUARTERS CLINICS
Number of animals handled: 151,109
NIGHT S
Number of calls: 18,849 TAFF
NORTH WALES
Number of animals handled: 2,537 UNIT
_ AWARDS
Silver Medals for Animal Life Saving 12-
Bronze Medals for Animal Life Saving 65
Bars to the Bronze Medal 6

Merit Certiﬁcates for Animal Life Saving 12
Margaret Wheatley Cross 1

 

 

 




 

76 THEANIMALWORLD

July 1955

 

 

 

BIRD MASSACRE

Among non—human passengers passing
through London Airport in a recent month,
wild birds outnumbered all other species by
nearly 5 to 1: 22,926 out ofa total of 28,715.

The RSPCA deplores the existence of this
trafﬁc, though its recent reports show that
mortalities in these large consignments have fallen
greatly, following improvements in caging and
the provision of feeding and wateringarrangements
at stops along the route from the Far East. These
improvements were instituted by air carriers and
livestock shippers following a report made by the
Manager of the RSPCA Air Hostel at London
Airport, who, at the invitation of the air carriers,
was permitted to ﬂy along the route from London
to Singapore. The carriers shared the concern of
ﬁhedRSPCA at the high rate of mortality among

1r 5.

Nevertheless, one consignment reaching
this country on one day in May had 301
dead birds—Java sparrows. A

Drinking Water Discoloured

When birds in previous consignments arrived
at London Airport, water in their drinking

vessels was seen to be discoloured; enquiries
made by the RSPCA oﬂicer whilst in Calcutta
showed that the birds were artiﬁcially col—
oured with aniline dye.

Although transport methods have improved,
the colouring of the birds by the employment of
sprays is still practised, and in the process many
are overcome and die, apart from the inevitable
losses in catching them. The RSPCA recom’
mended to the Calcutta dealers that birds should
not be dyed, and the dealers said they would
willingly stop it, but buyers in Holland and
Belgium, where the birds are destined to be sold
for caging as pets, insisted that dyeing was
essential. Taste of customers demanded this
artiﬁcial tint.

The RSPCA is vigorously opposed to the cruel
and wanton depredations upon the fauna of India
and appeals to the Indian people to stop the sense—
less disturance of Nature’s balance; the RSPCA
looks to animal welfare workers in Holland and
Belgium to campaign against a fashion in those
countries that is the cause of so much bird
suffering.

The RSPCA considers that the whole

problem demands urgent action on an inter—
national basis.

 

A CENTENARY

 

(Drawn by Cruikshank, and reprinted from Tynt’s ‘Street-
ology’.)

This year marks the centenary of the prohibition of the use
of draught dogs anywhere in England. An Act of I839, pro-
hibiting the use of dogs to carry or draw burdens in the
Metropolitan Area, came into force in l840. The prohibi-

 

tion was extended to the rest of England by an Act of I854,
which came into force on january I, I855. The RSPCA sup-
ported the Act but it was strongly opposed by many car-
riers, costermongers and small tradesmen, especially in
Surrey, Sussex and Hampshire, whence petitions were set“

to Itgf4House of Lords when the matter was being debated
m .

Among people of what might be termed ‘our own time’
who could recall having seen draught dogs in childhood was
MISS Gertrude jekyll, the famous gardening writer (and
cat-lover) who died in I932. Miss jekyll was born in 1343-

\
BIRD WELFARE

To those of our readers who are particularly
interested in bird welfare an appeal is made by
the Hon Secretary of the RSPCA Bird Fund,
105 Jermyn Street, London, SW1. A number 0f
supporters already render considerable help 193’
making articles for sale and this appeal is particu'
larly addressed to others who may also feel able
and Willing to help to make sewn and knitted
articles. It is again emphasized that the Fund in

question devotes itself . e
of birds. - Spec1fically to the welfar

 

 

 

1. D. w.

 




 

 

 

78 THEANIMALWORLD

TRAFFIC
IN
WILD
ANIMALS

......

Giraﬁ'e
en route
for Hanover

 

Captain R. W. Norton, secretary of the East
African SPCA, writes from Nairobi that his
Society deplores the export of wild life to zoos.

He says: ‘It is a sad sight to see so many animals
and birds etc. on railway trucks and ships on
their way to perpetual separation from their
natural environment and way of life.’

However, the trade is legal and the East African
SPCA (an afﬁliated sister society of the RSPCA),
with the Mombasa Branch of the RSPCA, does
everything to ensure, as far as possible, that
animals are exported and shipped in conditions
as comfortable as can be arranged. Mombasa
Branch makes sure, among other things, that
tarpaulins are provided as protection against
weather on the voyage.

‘Specimens originate’ (writes Capt Norton)
‘and are put on rail in various parts of the Colony
and eventually arrive in Nairobi. By arrangement
with the trappers I am advised of the impending
arrival in Nairobi of all consignments which are
there inspected by me and a veterinary surgeon.
If anything is found to be wrong with the crating,

BADGERS’ ADVOCATE

When a man who has studied badgers for over
forty years writes that ‘this animal does very
much more good than harm’, his opinion must
be respected. Mr F. Howard Lancum, in Badgers’
Year, admits that occasionally a badger will turn
rogue, but personal investigation in 109 cases of
poultryakilling has shown only two cases where
badgers were guilty.

He ﬁnds them courageous and clean—possibly
the cleanest animals on earth. -

The book is based on observations made from
hides erected in a West Devon wood, where a
Colony of these animals lived. From there he saw
a sow cuff her cubs who were too eager to leave
the sett and the same mother go back to a loiter—
ing cub who could not keep up her pace. She
went back, made sympathetic noises over the

Law...

July 1955

*~
‘

provision of water and suitable food, steps are
at once taken to have matters put right before
the specimens leave for the coast. If any speci.
mens for health reasons are found unﬁt for travel
by the veterinary surgeon, instructions are issued
accordingly. Recently, owing to a giraffe having
fallen down in its crate and sustained serious
injury, making forward transport to the coast
out of the question, I had the animal shot
forthwith.’

Escort of Constables

Capt Norton continues: ‘When everything is
found to be satisfactory the consignor (who is
practically always with the specimens) is so
advised. My next step is to arrange with the
Police authorities for an escort of constables to
be provided on the train. Their job is to prevent
molestation or teasing of the specimens at way—
side stations by natives or others, during the long
journey (about 20 hours) to the coast. I then
telegraph RSPCA Mombasa requesting them to
meet the consignment on arrival and take all
measures to ensure the welfare of the animals and
see them into ships. During the exporting season
many consignments are so dealt with. In many
cases a representative of the importing zoo takes
over at Mombasa for the voyage to destination.
In the other cases the care of the specimens
devolves on members of the ships’ crews (usually
with little or no experience). I may add that by
arrangement with the various Air Lines I also
inspect consignments passing through Nairobi
by air and in one bad case some time ago I re
fused to allow a whole consignment to go forward
owing to bad crating and inadequate provision
of food and water. The consignment went for!

ward eventually when matters had been improved
to my satisfaction.’ ,

cub, who had whined in protest, and afterwards
moved more slowly.

. (Badgers’ Year, by F. Howard Lancum, pubv
hshed by Crosby Lockwood, price 63. 6d., is not

available from the RSPCA but can be obtained
from booksellers.) I

 

EE-a




 

 

 

 

80

Preserving Seals from Extinction
by R. M. LOCKLEY
(These brief extracts from an article appearing in
‘The Times’ are reprinted with acknowledgments.)

At a conference sponsored by the International
Union for the Protection of Nature and held
recently in Copenhagen, measures were recom—
mended for the international protection of,
among other creatures, polar bears, musk—oxen,
walruses, and seals.

Accurate population ﬁgures of seals are difr
ﬁcult to come by. As the grey seal breeds in caves
and among rocks on British coasts an aerial
count (attempted in 1947) proved unsatisfactory,
although the herds ofharp and hooded seals
have been the subject of a successful census by
photographs taken from the air. From sources of
information supplied to the Copenhagen con,
ference it appears that the maximum ﬁgure of
33,500 of all ages—a low ﬁgure for a marine
animal—represents the present approximate world
population of the Atlantic grey seal. Of this
number at least half inhabit the coasts of the
British Isles. The midvyear composition of the
seal herd is believed to consist of roughly one—
quarter adult cows, one—quarter breeding bulls,
and one half immature seals from a half to two
and a half years old. This means that well under
10,000 adult cows exist.

Curiously enough, this seal has different breed—
ing months in the various parts of its range. In
Wales, Cornwall, and Ireland calves appear from
mid—June (occasionally earlier) to October, with
the majority born in September. In the Hebrides,
Shetlands, Orkneys, Norway and Faeroes Sept—
ember to October is the period; in the large

 

BRANCH

NEWS
Miss P. Camp-
ling, Norwich
SE aux hon sec,
sends this pic-
ture. The cat
(now happy in
the care of Miss
Campling) was
found by g the
river in a box
with another,
apparently left
to drown.

 

Alton, Haslemere, Petersfield and District There was a good
attendance at the branch annual meeting held in the Alton
Assembly Rooms, and Mrs H. Tollemache, branch hon sec,
presented her report. Mr C. R. Davies spoke on the work of
the RSPCA and many questions were asked. Inspector
Mahony presented his report.

Berkshire—Newbury and District Four ﬁremen and RSPCA
Inspector Tynan were presented with RSPCA certificates of
merit at the branch annual meeting held at the Chequers, for
their courage and humanity in rescuing animals from danger.
Mr F. P. Pirouet, presiding,- spoke with regret of the retire-
ment of Mrs M. Rose as branch chairman for the last three

THE ANIMAL WORLD

July 1955

ﬂ.
—__

Farne Islands colony off Northumberland it is
mostly November and December. In Canadian
waters the calves are born on the ice in the New
Year; and in the Baltic still later, in February and
March.

Such distinct breeding seasons point to the
existence of distinct geographical races.

The handsome Atlantic grey seal is too scarce
to deserve other than strict protection at present.
In this respect the present Grey Seals Protection
Act (1932), originally for the protection of the
late—breeding Farne Islands herd, is quite in—
adequate. It provides protection only from
September 1 to the end of the year. An order
should now be made by the Home Ofﬁce to
extend the period to cover the calving season in
the west: that is to say, this seal should be pro
tected from June 1 to the end of the year.

RSPCA AND EXPERIMENTS ON
. ‘ ANIMALS

Statements have been made to the effect that the
RSPCA approves in certain circumstances of
experiments on animals.

The RSPCA’s attitude is that it is strongly
against all experiments on animals that cause
pain. As an animal'protection society, how
can it take any otherlview?

Furthermore, the RSPCA will always oppose
any attempts to introduce a law that would allow
a stray dog to be used for experimental purposes.
The RSPCA believes that a stray dog——whether a
stray through his own, or, which is more likely,

his owner’s fault—has suffered enough by be
coming a stray.

years. The retirement of Mr C. A. Hawker after 20 years as
hon auditor was also announced. Mrs Waites, branch hon
secretary, appealed for auxiliary hon secretaries wanted in
certain districts. The branch hon treasurer, Mr J. M. Lay-
cock, reported an increase of £9 over the previous year’s
balance at bank. Mrs Barbara Woodhouse, writer and
broadcaster, accompanied by her two dogs ‘Juno’ and
‘Chica’, addressed the meeting as did Mr C. R. Davies.
Inspector Tynan reported that he had investigated 148 com-
plaints of cruelty.

Bromley and District (Kent) At the branch annual meeting,
held in the Public Library, Bromley, Sir Frank S. Alexander,
branch president, took the chair. In the absence of the
branch hon treasurer (Mr A. Bourneman), Sir Frank read
the ﬁnancial report which showed an increase of £200 0V6r

Biddy, aged l4, found as
a stray and adopted by
Nurse Marshall.

 

 

 

 




 

 

82 THEANIMALWORLD

July 1955

 

 

 

Photo, Kirk, Totlany]. _
Yorkshire Terrier puppies—~picture sent by Mrs Hawkes-
worth, Yarmouth, Isle of Wight.

meeting was held in the Mayor’s Parlour, and Lady Gower,
branch Vice-president, took the chair. Mrs Mary Beaumont
addressed the meeting and Inspector Pigott presented his
report.

Kidderminster and District Mrs Ellis, branch chairman,
thanked Sir George and Lady Eddy for the hospitality in
permitting the use of The Platts for the branch annual meet-
ing. Sir George, branch president, moved the adoption of
reports prepared by Miss F. E. Osborne (hon sec) and Mr
L. Batt (hon treasurer). Lady Eddy presented Chief Inspector
Cleary with a medal for 25 years’ service. Mr C. D. Chadwick
expressed thanks to the ofﬁcers and proposed their re-
election. Wing-Comdr Hillier spoke. A collection of £9 14s.
was taken for branch funds.

Lancashire—East, and Blackburn Mrs E. G. Tattersall,
branch chairman, took the chair at the branch annual meet-
ing held in the Sessions House, Blackburn. A report was
submitted by Mrs A. Edmondson, branch hon secretary.
An award was presented to a boy by Mrs Tattersall for his
kindness to animals. Lt-Col Coventry spoke and many
branch auxiliaries were represented.

*

At Burnley auxiliary annual meeting held in the Mechanics

Institute, Burnley, Mr W. Hirst, auxiliary chairman, pre-
sided, and Mr E. L. Fielden, aux hon treasurer, presented the
ﬁnancial report. Mrs U ghtred Lancaster succeeded Miss A. M.
Nuttall, who is leaving the district, as aux hon sec. Senior
Inspector Cameron reported that he had investigated 306
complaints of cruelty.
Lincolnshire—Mid, and Lincoln His Honour Judge R. S.
Shove, branch president, took the chair at the branch
annual meeting held in the East Gate Cafe, Lincoln. Miss
C. May Harrison, branch hon sec, read her report, and
Major Chapman spoke on the work of the RSPCA. Among
those present were Mrs D. Bergne-Coupland, branch chair-
man, and Mr L. Needham, Gainsborough aux hon sec.
Inspector Silcock presented his report.

Mrs D. Bergne-Coupland organized a bring and buy sale
and raised £40 for branch funds.
Liverpool The branch annual meeting was held in the
Council Chambers of the Town Hall, Liverpool, by kind
permission of the Mayor, Alderman A. Griffen, who took the
chair. Also present were the Lady Mayoress, the Mayor of
Wallasey and the Mayoress of Crosby. After Mr Wilfred
Owens, branch sec, had read the notice convening the meet-
ing the Lord Mayor presented the RSPCA certiﬁcates of
merit to Mr T. P. Kilgannon and Police-Constable A.
Patterson. Mr F. J. Winchester, branch chairman and Coun-
cil Member, read the branch committee’s report for the year,
and Mr R. K. Rathbone, branch hon treasurer, presented the
ﬁnancial report. Mr R. Coventry, branch vice-chairman,
proposed a vote of thanks to the Lord Mayor and the other
visitors present, and was seconded by Lt-Col Coventry.

London—North-East The Mayor and Mayoress of Wal-
thamstow were present at a dancing display organized by Mr
T. Mahoney, branch hon sec, at the Walthamstow Assem-
bly Hall. Miss Sonia Dresdel, guest artist, presented a dog
named ‘Judy’ with an RSPCA collar for rescuing human
life. Mrs Hoddell, Essex—South—West branch hon sec, and
Miss Beken were present. Mr C. R. Davies attended.
Middlesex—North-West Senior Inspector Hancock ad-
dressed members of the Roxeth Women’s Fellowship at
South Harrow. A collection was taken and raised £1 2s. for
branch funds.

Montgomery Mrs Maidie Andrew Hughes, branch hon
sec, reports that Mrs W. Thomas and Mrs K. Scoble organ-
ized a rummage sale and raised £10 Zs. for branch funds.
Newcastle-upon-Tyne Mr J. A. Wells, Blyth aux hon sec,
reports that an exhibition and sale of work was held at
Crofton Junior School. Members of the Kingﬁsher Blyth
Group of Animal Defenders helped with the sale of work.
Norfolk—Mid and Norwich Miss P. Harbord reports
that a spring fair organized in aid of the RSPCA Home and
Clinic raised £74.

Norfolk West The Rev Dr D. W. G. Bartlett, branch
president, presided at King’s Lynn auxiliary annual meeting
held in the Town Hall, King’s Lynn. Mrs Robson, aux hon
sec, reported that 57 animals had been found good homes
during the past year. The aux hon treasurer, Mr C. R. Hart,
presented his report, and Mr H. Arnold Jones, branch hon
treasurer, congratulated the auxiliary. Among those present
were Lord Fermoy, auxiliary president; Mrs Costagliola,
vice-chairman, and Mrs Hardy, branch hon secretary.
Oxford A collection in aid of branch funds was made at
Bicester Garrison and raised £30 15s. 5d.

Preston and District Mrs Leslie, Adlington auxiliary hon
sec, reports that the spring meeting of the Animal Defender
Group was held in the Christ Church Schools and 330
children attended.

Reading, with Berks, Hants and Oxon Border Miss E. M.
Wadland, branch sec, reports that Mr S. A. Warner, Didcot
aux hon sec, presented on behalf of Didcot Auxiliary a lethal
chamber to the Didcot Ordnance Depot.

Princess Marie Louise, president of the branch, was wel-
comed by the Mayor of Reading, Coun A. E. Smith, to the
branch annual meeting held at Heelas’ Restaurant. The
Mayor presided. Mr G. B. Potter, branch hon treasurer,
presented the ﬁnancial report. Her Highness made the pre-
sentations. Mrs Wallis Power, Vice-Chairman of the
RSPCA Council, addressed the meeting on the work of the
RSPCA. Among those present were Col R. M. Powell,
Vice-President of the RSPCA, Mr C. O. Lowsley, branch
chairman, and Miss E. M. Wadland, branch secretary.
Richmond and District Mrs Hamilton Penny, Deputy
Mayoress, presided at the branch annual meeting held at the
Castle Hotel, Richmond. Mrs Noel-Hill, branch hon sec, sub-
mitted her report as did Major R. W. Williams, branch hon
treasurer, which showed a balance of £128. Senior Inspector

Mrs Wheeler
(Chippenham)
sends this
picture; the
young rider is
Anthony Sims
(aged 2)

PhOtO] [CourtesyBath and Wilts Chronicle and Herald

 

 

 

 




 

84 THEANIMALWORLD

July 1955

 

' SEWING COMPANION SETS

FREE OFFER TO BRANCHES

Several thousand sewing companion sets have been presented
to the Society for sale on behalf of our funds. The set com-
prises a rather attractive stand, six inches in height, and on the
stem of the stand can be ﬁtted three reels of cotton. There is a
recess for a thimble, hooks for scissors and safety pins and a
rubber cushion-for needles and pins. Guides are provided to
prevent the cotton becoming entangled.

It was hoped apparently to retail these sets at about two

, shillings each, but it would appear there has been no demand.
These sets might ﬁnd ready purchasers at bazaars at a ﬁgure
a little less than that quoted. If, of course, the set is complete
:with cotton, thimble, scissors, etc., then a much larger price
§ could be asked for the article. _
' Full directions are given with each set. If any branch would
like one hundred or so of these sets, they will begforwarded in
strict rotation, free of charge, on receipt of orders addressed to
the Appeals Department. - 7 ,

These sets might serve as useful presents for young girls. '

HOUSE—TO—HOUSE COLLECTIONS

(We give, wherever possible, the place at which the house—to’
house collection was made, and the name of the organizer or
organizers. ) 4

Newton Aycliffe, Mr Wilson, aux hon sec, £9 65. 2d.;
Rhondda, Miss Maddy, aux hon sec, £104 Os. 10d.; Park
Gate, Mrs Turner, aux hon sec, £25; Leeds, Mrs Harvey,
branch hon sec, £4 153. 9d.; Harold Wood, Mrs Campbell,
aux hon sec, £43 175. 4d.; Brookmans Park, Mrs Tingey,
aux hon sec, £21 55. 2d.; Redcar, Mrs Hart, branch hon
sec, £37 93. 3d.; Witham—on—the—Hill, Mrs Fitzsimmons,
Bourne aux hon sec, £20 75. 6d.; Fetcham, Mrs Robinson,
aux hon sec, £8 19s.; Dormansland, Mrs Forsyth, aux hon

sec, £24 55. 7d.

FLAG DAY RESULTS

(We give, wherever possible, the place where the Flag Day was
organized and the name of the organizer or organizers.)
Broadstairs, Mrs Crook, aux hon sec, £48 83.; Andover
and District, Mrs Braime, aux hon sec, £80 25. 6d.; Congle—
ton, Mrs Pirie and Mrs Solly, £81 135. 4d.; Herne Bay,
Miss M. Michell, aux hon sec, £100 175. 3d.; Macclesfield,
Miss A. M. Wain, branch hon sec, £204 135. 3d.; Sitting—
bourne, Mrs M. Draper, division hon sec, £153 115. 1d.;
Preston, Mrs H. Kay, branch hon sec, £323 125. 10d.;
Skipton, Mrs Horne, aux hon sec, £76 123. 7d.; Norton
(Yorks), Mrs P. M. Pye—Oliver, Division hon sec,
£90 115. 5d.; Runcorn, Mr and Mrs]. Goulden, £111 35. 6d.;
Southampton, Mrs Moody, branch hon sec, £176 85. 6d.;
Hastings, Mrs E. Sletcher, branch hon sec, £157 115. 11d.
(Joint collection); Knebworth, Mrs N. Bell, aux hon sec,
£20 195. 4d.; Standon and Puckeridge, Mrs D. E. Mills,
aux hon sec, £17 125. 7d.; Ware, Miss D. Wilsher, aux hon
sec, £30 125. 7d.; Gt Hormead, Mrs E. Ginn, aux hon sec,
£7 15. 6d.; Buntingford, Mrs G. Morris, £11; Retford,
Mrs G. E. Hurst, aux hon sec, £130 45. 6d.; Swindon, Miss
R. Barlow, aux hon sec, £270 113.; Brigg, Mrs M. E.
'Phillips, aux hon sec, £38 155. 9d.; Sedgefield, Miss Hart,

aux hon sec, £12.

*

Result reported by Mrs D. Ellicott (Branch Committee
member): Gibraltar, £250 195. 5d.

 

LARGE
BEGGING
DOG BOX
COLLECTIONS

Rusty the red cocker spaniel
accompanies Miss Hermione M.
Gray on her annual house to
house collection.

FOLKESTONE.———Mrs Grace, branch hon secretary, reports
in eleven weeks the box raised £5 105. during the months of
February, March and April.

READING.—We learn from Miss Wadland, branch secre—
tary, that Messrs Milwards Ltd., of Reading, displayed the
box recently and it collected £14 165. 11%d.

RSPCA FILM NEWS

The Society’s films were sent to the following places for
showing recently: Epsom, Sittingbourne, Reading,'Gates—
head, 'Middlesbrough, St Austell, Jersey, Stroud, Seaford,
Hexhamu, Rotherham, Shefﬁeld, Bacup, Wigan, Dereham,
East Grinstead, Wolverhampton, Streatham, Park Gate,
Mirfield, Shepherds Bush, Hammersmith, Putney, Cam—
bridge, East Ham, Nutbourne, Leeds, Maidstone, Stoke—
on—Trent, Merstham, Plymouth, Portreath, Rogiet, Mat—
lock, Highams Park, Blackburn, Crediton, Dinnington,
Whitstable, Bradford, Colham Green, Oxford, Chisledon,
Knighton, Standon.

 

 

 

TEMPLE c0x CAPTIVE
BOLT SLAUGHTERING
GUNS

Specially recommended and used by the RSPCA

THREE MODELS—ALL SILENT IN
ACTION

‘UNIVERSAL’ for all animals
‘SMALLS’ for all small animals
‘MARK’ 6' for all animals. Designed for heavy

use in large Abattoirs and Freezing Works

TEMPLE COX DEVELOPMENT CO. LTD
HIGH STREET, BROMLEY, KENT

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




This study shows (actual size) one of the black-and-white card pictures.
For fully illustrated pamphlet, please complete the form below and send to:
R.S.P.C.A., 105 JERMYN STREET, LONDON, SW1

 

 

(Please complete in block letters and aﬁix 1%(1. stamp, which will
save R.S.P.C.A. expense)

{Mr
NAMEg} Mrs
LMiss

 

 

 

ADDRESS

 

OF

CHRISTMAS
CARDS

AND
CALENDARS

PRICES MODEST

—SALES HELP
R.S.P.C.A. WORK

ARTISTIC
ANIMAL STUDIES

CARDS

Black and White
2/3 box of six
Two or more boxes ordered,
2/— per box

Coloured

3/— box of six
Two or more boxes ordered,
2/9 per box

CALENDARS

Black and White
2/— each, or 21/- per doz.

(Suitable envelopes for cards
and calendars supplied free)

Printed by Shenval Press, Simson Shand Ltd, London, Hertford and Harlow. and
published by Arthur W. Moss for the RSPCA at 105 Jermyn Street, London, SW1

 




