 

 

 

 

Victory
for humane
' slaughter

28

 

ANNUAL REPORT

ASPCA’s
year

in

review

Remarks by
William Rockefeller, President
at the Annual Meeting, May 26, 1959

Welcome to the 93rd Annual Meeting of The American Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals. Before 1 review the Society’s activities
during the past year and share our plans for the future, 1 want to pay tribute
to one who has been with us at every annual meeting for the past 18 years.
For eight of these years Warren Wood McSpadden was our General Manager.
An enthusiastic and tireless worker, he literally devoted every waking moment
to the responsibilities of his office. On March 11 last, Warren McSpadden
suffered a heart attack. The next day he passed away.

One of the greatest single Victories ever accomplished by the animal welfare
movement was the passage of a federal humane slaughter law during the
last session of Congress.

For decades humane-minded people had searched for the answers which
would make such a law possible. In looking over some of the Society’s old
scrapbooks recently, 1 came upon a number of newspaper articles, dated 1902
to 1908, revealing the hopes of humane leaders to ﬁnd scientiﬁc methods for
the painless killing of food animals. Rewards were offered, tests were made,
and over and over they proved to be unsatisfactory. Certainly it was foolhardy
to expect any legislator to back a humane slaughter bill if the means were not
available to carry it out.

And so it went, until 1956. By this time several humane methods of slaughter
had been proved satisfactory and were being used in some of the nation’s
most progressive packing plants, and the ASPCA presented its James Hopkins
Award to three of these packers.

By this time all the leading humane organizations, including the ASPCA,
had united to pass compulsory humane slaughter legislation. Without review-
ing the obstacles involved, sufﬁce it to say that it was a three-year struggle
before a satisfactory law was passed. It goes into effect on July 1, 1960.

Our next step is to get a similar law passed in New York State, for the federal
law applies to slaughter houses selling to the United States Government. While
this covers most of the major packers in the country, there are many small
slaughterhouses in New York State which do not sell to the federal government
and are therefore not affected by the existent law.

 

 

 




IN THE NEWS PARADE

ANlmAL ANT|CS

k

E? a a i

A man rode his horse into Fulton,
Miss, tied it up to a parking meter and
walked away. He came back to ﬁnd a park-
ing ticket tucked under the bridle between
the horse’s ears.

 

 

 

 

 

% '2? ee

When a kindhearted man in Mt. Clem-
ens, Mich, tried to C‘adopt” a roving baby
raccoon, he was ﬁned $32.80 for harboring
a raccoon during the closed hunting season.
State conservation officers who arrested him
explained it is illegal to be a “foster parent”
to a young wild animal.

96 ~36 9’:

A British historian is retracing Hanni-
bal’s trail over the Alps with an elephant
borrowed from an Italian zoo. The elephant
is being trained to cross the mountains
Hannibal traversed with 37 elephants for
his campaign against the Romans in 219 B.C.

'2": 99 9’:

A Long Island woman discovered the
reason for the mysterious noises on the flat
roof of her new home. Seagulls had been
picking up clams from an inlet nearby and
dropping them on the roof to break them.

9:. *

A public opinion poll revealed that
most West Germans prefer advertisements
showing pictures of dogs rather than of
pinup girls.

 

In Kindlington, England, a farmer said
his 80 cows were sleeping on plastic foam
mattresses because good straw was expensive
and hard to get. “There’s no doubt the
cows like the mattresses very much,” he
said. He reported milk production had in-
creased.

°.\’~ 96 9%

A Little Rock, Ark., woman left $500
to her cat Chessie for his room, board and
medical care. It was more money than she
left to any of the other eight beneficiaries in
her will, which stated the administrator of
her estate was to select a person to give the
cat a good home and attention until his.

death.

56 9': 9%

The National Geographical Society re-
veals that pigs never overeat, so it turns out
that all the thousands of people who have
been accused of “eating like a pig” haven’t
been insulted after all.

9C. 4% 9!.

A team of North Carolina doctors dis-
covered that pigeons suffer from the 'same
kind of hardening of the arteries that leads
to heart attacks, high blood pressure and
brain strokes in human beings.

The City Council of Plymouth, England,
has abolished a $280 a year grant to a
church hostel for unmarried mothers and
given the money to a home for stray cats
and dogs.

9:. ‘5‘ 9!.

A Dallas, Texas, man ﬁxed his elec-
tronically controlled garage door so it would
open at the sound of his automobile horn or
his whistle. Then he began ﬁnding the door
open when he came home. A few days later
his wife reported a mockingbird came daily,
perched above the door and had a delightful
time opening and closing the door by match-
ing the man’s whistle.

17

 

 

 




     

w... vr-r v——_-«- »
I
1
n

amma
tectlo

 

f0

_..,
-

P




\

‘---I----

All 3 varieties of

RED HEART
DOG FOOD

are packed With

 

the red beef protein dogs

BEEF RED HEART gives
your dog the very nutri-

tious and healthful red

beef food elements, plus
its wonderful meaty aro-
ma and ﬂavor.

-------/

~---------------I----I’

“-------‘

BEEF-PLUS-LIVER RED
HEART has even more
diet-essential iron and
delicious liver flavor—
plus a full supply of red
beef nutrients.

---—------—---l

------------------l’

‘------------I

need

BEEF-PLUS-FISH RED
HEART provides marvel-
ous ﬁsh nutrition, aroma
and flavor. It also pro-
vides the complete red
beef food factors.

*RED HEART

. . . wonderful mealtime variety for dogs who think they’re people!

.-----------—-I

~----v---III-Il----I--D,

© 1959, Red Heart Div., John Morrell & Co.

 




 

for an entry permit to Department of Agri-
culture, Oslo, Norway. Rabies and health
certiﬁcates certiﬁed by Consulate.

Pakistan
Write to Pakistan Consulate.

Panama

No quarantine. Certiﬁcates of health, ra-
bies vacination and distemper signed by
licensed veterinarian.

Paraguay
No quarantine. Certiﬁcate of health signed
by Department of Health veterinarian.

Peru

No quarantine. Write to Minister of Agri-
culture, Department of Livestock, Lima,
Peru, for permission to enter dog. Permission
will be mailed to the Peruvian Consulate.
Keep in touch with Consulate to ﬁnd out if
permission has been granted.

The Philippines

No quarantine. Health certiﬁcate and cer-
tiﬁcate of rabies vaccination must be signed
by licensed veterinarian.

Portugal

No quarantine. Rabies vaccination and
health certiﬁcates notarized, certiﬁed by
County Clerk, then certiﬁed by Portuguese
Consulate having jurisdiction over the state
or territory in which the owner lives.

Saudi Arabia
No restrictions. Certiﬁcate of health signed
by licensed veterinarian advised.

Spain

No quarantine. Rabies and health certiﬁ-
cates signed by licensed veterinarian and
certiﬁed by Spanish Consulate nearest resi-
dence of the owner.

Sweden

Quarantine period —— six months. Write
for entry permit to Royal Veterinary Board,
Stockholm, Sweden. Dog must be vaccinated
in the United States one week before leaving
the country. Certiﬁcate of health signed by
licensed veterinarian. Rabies and health cer-
tiﬁcates certiﬁed by Consulate.

Switzerland

If stay is to be over 3 months, dog will be
quarantined, the length of which will be de-
termined in Switzerland. Rabies and health
certiﬁcates must be dated six days before
day of embarkation. Rabies certiﬁcate must
state that dog comes from an area free from
rabies for at least 100 days.
Syria

Certiﬁcates of health and rabies vaccina-
tion required. These must be notarized, certi-
ﬁed by County Clerk and Secretary of State
and then legalized by the Syrian Consulate.
Thailand

No quarantine. Certiﬁcates of health and
rabies signed by Department of Health vet-
erinarian.

Turkey

No quarantine. Health certiﬁcate in dupli-
cate and rabies certiﬁcate signed by Depart-
ment of Health veterinarian.

Union of South Africa

No quarantine. Health certiﬁcate signed
by licensed veterinarian, dated not later than
21 days prior to departure. Rabies certiﬁcate
stating that animal was vaccinated not less
than six months before date of departure,
the number and batch of vaccine, that vac-
cine was fully viable at this date. Chick em-
bryo vaccine only may be used. Certiﬁcates
must be notarized and mailed to Director of
Veterinary Service, P.O. Box 806, Pretoria,
Union of South Africa. Dog must also be vac-
cinated against leptospirosis and distemper.

Uruguay

No quarantine. Health and rabies certiﬁ-
cates obtained from US. Department of
Agriculture, Animal Inspection and Quaran-
tine Division.
Yugoslavia

No quarantine. Health and rabies certiﬁ-
cates signed by licensed veterinarian.

Venezuela

No quarantine. Health, rabies vaccination
and distemper inoculation certiﬁcates signed
by licensed veterinarian and certiﬁed by
Consulate.

11

 




 

Two other projects for under-18 contestants are the Maclay Horsemanship

Class and the Henry Bergh Class.

The Maclay Trophy is a perpetual trophy offered ﬁrst in 1933. The winner
receives a replica of the original, presented at the National Horse Show,
which is the climax of the horse-show year, and is held at Madison Square
Garden in November. The winner of the Maclay last year was Miss Wendy
Hanson, of Wilton, Connecticut. The trophy was competed for in 136 shows.

The second trophy offered by the ASPCA, the Henry Bergh, was ﬁrst offered
in 1953. In addition to horsemanship, the contestants are required to success-
fully answer three questions regarding the anatomy of the horse. Additional
points may be gained if the rider cares for and grooms his or her own mount.

This class was held in 65 shows.

Each year the Bergh trophy is given by some friend of the Society. This year’s
trophy is the gift of Mr. and Mrs. Richard A. Johnson. Mrs. Johnson is one
of ASPCA’s most active volunteer workers. Among other enterprises she is
President of the Ark. The Bergh winner is Miss Nina Ervesun.

Other winners are reserve, Miss Judy Richard; third, Miss Sandy Gartner;
fourth, George Daniel Jones; ﬁfth, Miss Betsy Gerson; sixth, Eric George.

While still on the subject of horse shows, I’d like to mention Frank Carroll,
the new owner of Secor Farms, which he purchased from Gordon Wright
who, you will recall gave a series of beneﬁt horse shows for the ASPCA, to
sustain a veterinary scholarship at Cornell Veterinary Medical School.

Mr. Carroll continued the show last winter for the same purpose, and has
presented us with a check in the amount of $900, which will carry the
scholarship for another three years.

The inspection of all horse shows within a 65-mile radius of New York City
is carried out by ASPCA’s Humane Work Department.

This Department also investigates all cruelty complaints. Two such cases,
entirely different in nature, will give you an idea of the scope of this work.

Early last October, we received ten telephone calls from advertising agencies,
which had received a cardboard box containing a full-grown chicken.

   
 
        
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   

The annual Junior Jamboree
in Central Park oﬁered
music, entertainment and
refreshments to 1,600
children.

 




 

Snapshots of pets merit an important
place in anyone’s family picture record. For
one thing, a well beloved pet is a genuine
member of the family. For another, our
animals have such comparatively short lives
that they are all too soon only a fond mem-
ory. The time to get a picture is now——
while the kitten is still tiny and cute, while
old Fido is still trotting with the kids to the
school bus.

Photographing pets can bring wonder-
fully satisfying results, or something quite
the opposite. The wrong way is to let Junior
swoop up the animal and clutch him tightly
while you snap. You won’t get a real picture
of your pet this way.

What you want to catch on ﬁlm are the
characteristics that make you so fond of your
pet. You want a picture that shows him as
his natural self. This may take a little pa-
tience but you will ﬁnd it is worth it.

As a preliminary, have your camera loaded
and in some handy spot where you can
reach it quickly. Then you will be ready
when a good picture opportunity arises.
When Tabby is stretched out at her most
impressive in the forbidden chair, you can
take her picture ﬁrst and scold her after-
wards. In the same way you can catch Fido’s
eager pose as he waits at the door for the
master to come home.

Wait for a good pose

Adult animals do not present too many
difﬁculties if you use judgment and wait
for the proper pose. As a precaution, never
attract your dog’s attention just before you
snap as he will almost certainly come run-
ning toward you. Baby animals, however,
usually refuse to stay in one place long
enough to allow the photographer much time
for deliberation.

A good way to keep a young animal
where you want him is to use a dish of food.
You can select your camera angle, focus, and
snap at your leisure while the pup or kitten
laps a bowl of milk. You will have a true-
to-life action pose too.

Another method is to select ahead of time

the exact spot where you wish the animal to
be. After your camera is correctly aimed at
this place, have an accomplice pick up the
animal, drop it on the selected spot and
back away quickly. In the instant before the
subject starts running, you snap.

If you just can’t make your pet stay put
long enough for a quick snap, or if you are
not sure of your ability to take a picture of
him in motion, why not sneak up on him
when he is sleeping and catch him then. A
sleeping pup or kitten has the same look of
appealing defenselessness as a sleeping baby.
It’s a picture that can’t miss. For an added
heart tug, place a favorite plaything; bone,
ball, or old slipper, beside the slumberer. It
will look as if he had dropped off exhausted
after a happy romp.

Setting the shutter

If you are using a simple ﬁxed focus
camera, you will be more sure of your results
if you utilize one of these methods. If you
have an adjustable camera, set the shutter at
1/200 and open the stop proportionately
according to the light conditions. With this
setting you can get a good picture even if
the animal is moving.

Before snapping the picture, look over the
background with a critical eye. Try to have
as few objects as possible behind and around
the animal. If the surroundings are cluttered
he will not show up plainly in the ﬁnished
picture. A wide stretch of grassy lawn makes
an excellent background.

Another important factor is camera angle.
If you are taking a picture of a small animal
and shoot down on him from above, the
effect will be disappointing. It is better to
crouch low and bring the camera into line
with his body. When photographing a larger
pet, such as a horse, you may have to go to
the other extreme and stand on a low chair
to obtain the best camera angle. Study your
subject in the camera viewﬁnder to deter-
mine the best vantage point before making
your snapshot.

Pointing up the size of your pet will add

(Continued on page 18)

5

 




Figures behind the facts

TOTAL SERVICES RENDERED
Animals handled .......................... , .........................
Animals handled in shelters (including 8,063 outside New York City) . .
Animals handled at Animalport, N.Y. International Airport ...........
Animals adopted ...................................................
Animals examined or held for observation in bite cases by
Department of Health at shelters ................................
Animals handled in Hospital and Clinic ..............................
Inspections by agents ...............................................
Animals involved in these inspections ................................
Alleged cruelty cases investigated ....................................
Dogs licensed in New York City .....................................
Children, young people, and adults instructed in humane education . .

SHELTER SERVICES

Animals received

In Shelters April 30, 1958 .............

Received for home adoption ...........

Collected from streets2 . . . . , ............

Unwanted animals called for ...........
(representing 89,974 requests)

Lost and abandoned3 .................

Delivered to shelters by owners .........
Total ............................

Animals released

Restored to Owners ..................

Allocated

Adopted ............................

Released to freedom ..................

Released to Medical Stray Ward ........

Bite cases released to Dept. of Health . . . .

Died or humanely destroyed4 ...........

In shelters April 30, 1959 ..............
Total ............................

Bite cases held in ASPCA isolation wards for observation by Dept. of Health . .

Days of observation involved .................. , .........................

EDUCATIONAL ACTIVITIES

._ Children and adults attending classes at main ofﬁce .......................
Teachers and scout leaders observing demonstrations ......................
Schools and other organizations using the Society’s visual aids ..............
Children and adults taught through use of these visual aids ................
Pieces of educational literature distributed ...............................
Pet and animal calendars distributed ....................................
Public lectures, demonstrations and discussions on television and radio .......
Pet shows sponsored or assisted ........................................
Dog obedience training courses given ...................................
People registered for dog obedience training courses ......................
Attendance at Junior Jamboree ........................................

38

 

 

For the fiscal year ending April 30, 1959

HOSPITAL SERVICES
Animals examined and treated5

Dogs ...............................................................
Cats ................................................................
Others ..............................................................

Days of hospitalization ................................................

H U M A N E W O R K
Inspection services

Animal stores and pet shops .................................
Poultry markets ...........................................
Private stables —— to prevent abuse of horses ....................
Public markets —— to prevent abuse of horses ....................
Slaughter houses ..........................................
Stockyards

Laboratories

Circuses

Rodeos

Horse shows . ............................................

Special horse services

Harnesses adjusted ...................................................
Suspended from labor .................................................
Moved in ambulances .................................................
Permanent horse watering fountains maintained ........................... *.
Water wagons .......................................................
Inspection of horses for ﬁtness to work 2 ...................................

Legal relations

Complaints of alleged cruelty received ....................................
Cruelty cases investigated, corrected without court action ....................
Arrests made by Society ..................... . .........................
Convictions secured ...................................................
Dismissal of complaints ................................................
Fines imposed by court6 ................................. A ..............

 

. Among these animals were alligators, beavers, chinchillas, foxes, hamsters, monkeys, muskrats, a porcupine;
also birds, including blue jays, canaries, cranes, herons, java temple birds, mynahs, parakeets, parrots, robins,
sandpipers and swans. I

. Includes animals abandoned in streets and animals rescued from trees, poles, behind walls, etc.

. Includes animals abandoned in buildings, received from police and animals whose owners are in institutions.-

. Includes 113,380 animals humanely destroyed at the request of their owners.

. Includes 3,187 animals received at the Medical Stray Ward needing medical attention, or cases where owners
are evicted, in hospital or under arrest.

. Fines belong to the City under statutes passed at the request of the Society.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

ats of every variety—~from Siamese
kittens to tigers—are purring their way
through the ASPCA Animalport, the unique
shelter for animal air travelers passing
through New York International Airport.
Feline guests have included two rare Siberian
snow leopards, a black panther, a jaguar,
four hyenas, two tigers, six ocelots, three
spotted leopards, more than 300 domestic
cats and a beer-drinking lion.

The 18-month-old lion, mascot of an army
unit in Frankfurt, Germany, was en route
to a Cincinnati zoo because he was getting
too big for the job. The men of the unit
had taught Charlie to drink beer.

Most of the exotic cats are captured in
India or Africa especially for display in zoos
in this country. The exception was a leopard
cub brought back from India by a Connec-
ticut lion hunter. Aiming for a lion, the man
accidentally shot a leopard that was nursing
two cubs. He took the cubs home with him.
He gave one away in Paris, and left the
other at the Animalport, announcing in the
newspapers that he would give the six-month-
old cub to any responsible person who ap-
plied. The Animalport was swamped with
more than 50 phone calls from would-be
owners, including a few children. The hunter

Charlie ll, 18-month-old lion, mascot of an Amer-
ican Army unit in Germany.

Animalport

becomes

the

Attendant cuddles
two baby ocelots bound for
a western zoo.

Tiger, tiger burning bright -_— one of nature’s
most beautiful examples of symmetry and grace.

declined all offers, however, and decided to
keep the cub.

Almost all the domestic cats belong to
American GI’s in Europe who are returning
to the United States. The pets are flown on
an earlier plane and wait at the Animalport
for the happy reunion. The charge of $1 a
day includes food, board in an individual,
spotlessly clean tile kennel, a scratching post,
medical attention when necessary and round-
the-clock loving care from experienced at-
tendants.

Wild cats pay more—$4 a day for oce-
lots, lynxes, pumas; and $5 for lions, tigers,
leopards, panthers and jaguars. The food
menu for one of these big-appetite fellows
may run to eight pounds of raw meat a day.

Playtime is cut to a minimum with these
ferocious beasts. Playful when young, they
are always unpredictable, as was the case
with a young jaguar which dropped in from
the Dark Continent. The attendant started to
let the cat out of the cage for a little exer-
cise, but it hissed, growled and bared its
sharp teeth, so back in the cage it went.

The two grayish-white snow leopards from
Siberia were so unfriendly their cages had
to be covered with a burlap bag. And these
cats were never let out of the bag.

Leopard bares its teeth as owner arrives to
claim it.

 

 

 

 




 

THE AMERICAN
SOCIETY FOR THE
PREVENTION OF
CRUELTY T0 ANIMALS

FOUNDED AND INCORPORATED 1866

 

Ofﬁcers

William Rockefeller, President
William F. Morgan, Vice-President
James H. Ripley, Vice-President
Richard C. Kettles, Vice-President
William A. Meyerhoff, Treasurer

R. W. Allen, Asst. Treasurer

Louis Reynal, Secretary

John W. Ream, Asst. Secretary
Arthur L. Amundsen, Asst. Secretary

Board of Managers

John D. Beals, Jr.
William E. Buckley
John W. Cross, Jr.
James H. Jenkins
Robert L. Jones
José A. Machado, Jr.
Alastair B. Martin
Joseph B. Murray
Horace H. Nahm
Hugh E. Paine

A. Wells Peck

W. Ross Proctor
William A. Rockefeller
George B. Wagstaﬁ

Managers Emeritus
F. Ambrose Clark
Henry J. Fisher
Samuel R. Milbank

Administration Ulliees TRafalgar 6-7700
441 East 92nd St., New York 28, N. Y. (York Ave.)
Arthur L. Amundsen, Director of Operations

George H. Tuscher, Director of Humane Work

Katherine M. Lehr, Secretary to Committees

Diana Henley, Director of Education

Thacher, Profﬁtt, Prizer, Crawley 81 Wood,
Attorney and Counsel

Hospital and Clinic TRafalgar 6-7700

441 East 92nd St., New York 28, N. Y.
John E. Whitehead, V.M.D., Chief of Staﬁ‘

Thomas A. Fegan, Business Manager
Public Relations Department PLaza 5-1650

30 East 60th St., New York 22, N. Y.

June Eliot, Director
Animalport OLympia 6-6042
Air Cargo Center, New York International

Airport, Jamaica 30, N. Y.

George F. Bauer, Resident Manager

Bronx Shelter

420 Morris Park Avenue, Bronx 60, N. Y.
(between Tremont Ave. and East 178th St.)
N. Michael Bromley, District Manager

TYrone 2-8500

Brooklyn Shelter

233 Butler St., Brooklyn 17, N. Y.
(between Nevins and Bond Streets)
Harry J. Connolly, District Manager

TRiangle 5-9580

Manhattan Shelter

441 East 92nd St., New York 28, N. Y.
Francis Melvin, District Manager

TRafalgar 6-7700

Nassau County Shelters
Pratt Blvd. Ext, Glen Cove, L. 1.
Vincent J. Patterson, Shelter Manager

70 Water Street, Long Beach, L. 1.
James J. McKenna, Shelter Manager

ORiole 6-5913

GEneral 1-0660

Queens Shelter

94-27 158th St., Jamaica 33, N. Y.
Robert B. Ferris, District Manager

REpublic 9-4041

Richmond Shelter GIbraltar 7-0122

4 Willow Ave., Rosebank, S. I. 5, N. Y.
Walter L. Hollinde, District Manager

W’estern W’estehester Shelter

Old Saw Mill River Rd., Elmsford, N. Y.
Carl Stohr, Shelter Manager

LYric 2-7890

 

 

 




 

Daily Puss ’n Boots nourishment

  
 
  

8-02. and

15-02. sizes

PUSSh
BOOTS

Once a day—every day—

for lifelong nutrition

Coast Fisheries Division of The Quaker Oats Company, Chicago 54, Ill.

 

TUESDAY
WEDNESDAY
THURSDAY
FRIDAY

SATURDAY

 

 

y I

assures their lovely health!

Glowing vigor is a
certainty when diet
is right and regular

Pe0ple who love and understand cats
are justly meticulous when it comes
to their pet’s diet. First, they insist on
a wholesome, balanced formula.
Second, they insist that this formula
be fed regularly, so that the cat can
derive uninterrupted beneﬁts.

That’s why the overwhelming ma—
jority of cat owners and breeders
choose Puss ’n Boots and feed it ex-
clusively. For Puss ’n Boots tested
combination of fresh—caught whole
ﬁsh, selected cereals, and extra Vitae
mins B1 and E provides every nutri—
ent a cat is known to need.

Proof of the Wholesomeness of
regular Puss ’n Boots shows quickly
in a cat’s glossier coat, brighter eyes,
and better all—round disposition. Feed
Puss ’n Boots regularly—you’ll see
the improvement in a very few weeks.

The importance of regular,
daily feeding

Only by feeding Puss ’n Boots regularly
——at least once a day—can your cat
completely proﬁt from its wholesome
properties. For Puss ’n Boots is a bal—
anced formula—with variety in every
meal. Each day, your cat gets something

that he needs for perfect health.

      
      
 
     
       
       
     
      
 

A can of p .

tzgz'ce the c3113:
mes—as

0f milk, a 10

1‘:~;s~w‘“:-’é Puss '1] Bo

~«"

n Boots has
m‘fOI scron
OUnce glass

OtS has .
as much blood—bujfour t1mes

ash a same-5i zed can dflsraiﬁhe‘in
2 Cir: gsfas much protein in.
foar fresh whsosle Izeggsoors as
arising-p198“ contai
t an an e moung t
chicken. qual

n? more
h.lamine
“”108 of

   

being,

 




 

 

 

WHY NOT GIVE A
LIVING GIFT?

It you are thinking of helping others
why not make a donation of an

AXE-HOUGHTON FUND

There is probably one that would be
ideal for the purpose:

 

THE
AXE-HOUGHTON
FUNDS: “A”
“B"
“STOCK”

 

A... . AXE SCIENCE
;%g x. ELECTRONICS
‘ - CORPORATION

AXE-TEMPLETON GROWTH
FUND OF CANADA, LTD.

For Free Information Send Letter or Post-Card to:

AXE SECURITIES CORPORATION

TARRYTOWN, N. Y.

 

 

 

 

CH SNOWMAN de BEAU MAR at Stud.

, Bes in Show winning 9- inch
Toyt Poodle. Proven sire of
quality whites and creams.
$200, to approved bitches
only. Rated among top 10 toy
dogs for 195 7 and only toy
dog to go best in show in
Canada for 1957. Choice
puppies available

MRS

L. G. MEYERS

BOX 214, Pine Bush, N. Y.
NY City Phone MU 4- 2721

 

 

IRADELL KENNELS

Breeders and Importers
o

FINEST TYPES OF SKYE TERRIERS ALSO TOY POODLES
AND SILKY TERRIERS
Mrs. N. Clarkson Earl, Jr. John J. Keyes
Owner Manager
Ridgefield, Conn. ldlewood 8-3400
Walter c. Foster, handler

 

Beautiful Black and Silver Gray
Puli Puppies from
Championship Stock

Cedwood Kennels

Owner, Ellanor Anderson
1166 Burlington Avenue Bris o ,

 

 

GERMAN SHEPHERDS OF QUALITY

Good Bone Structure. Good Temperament, Con—
tormity and Coat, tor Show or Obedience.

WILLANA KENNELS

1508 Burnett Ave. Union-A. New Jersey

 

 

 

 

18

“Picturing Pets”
(Continued from page 5)

charm to the picture, particularly if he is
unusually large or very small. You probably
won’t be photographing a pet elephant so
we need not ﬁgure how to handle that situa-
tion. But you may have a majestic Great
Dane or a toy fox terrier pup or a wee kitten.

Size is emphasized by contrast with some-
thing in the environment whose dimensions
are recognized. One pose that has been taken
repeatedly is a tiny puppy in a shoe. This
picture is popular because we all know the
approximate size of a shoe and realize that
a pup must be very small to ﬁt inside one. A
kitten on the palm of someone’s hand will
tell the same story.

When photographing a very large dog you
can obtain excellent contrast by having a
small toddler stand beside him. You also get
a nice picture of the baby, tool

You can make much better pictures of
very small animals if you use an inexpensive
close-up lens slipped over your regular cam-
era lens. This will enable you to come in
close enough to get considerable detail. A
close-up lens also will make it possible for
you to snap unusual pets such as the minia-
ture turtle Junior holds in his hand.

Peck appointed to Board

A. Wells Peck, Chairman of the Board of
Peck 81 Peck, has been appointed to the
Board of Managers. For the past 25 years
Mr. Peck has bred Norwegian elkhounds.
and in 1959 his Ch. Tortasen’s Bjonn II
became the ﬁrst Norwegian elkhound in the
72 history of the Westminster Kennel Club
Show to win best of the hound group.

A graduate of Phillips Academy and Yale
University, Mr. Peck is a director of the
Fifth Avenue Association, a trustee and vice-
president of the New York Polyclinic Medical
School and Hospital, and secretary of the New
York Tuberculosis and Health Association.

 




 

 

 

your dog needs

ALPO

100% MEAT

Lean meat, good meat. . . chunks, not chopped.

 

Not a speck of cereal filler in ALPO.
Just fragrant wholesome

meat. . . in chunks. ALPO.

 

Next time get AlPﬂ...Beef_, Hersemeat, Lame, Chicken (ﬁne . New! ALPU Bee Liver

 

 

 
 

REALOCK
FENCE

security
for animals

Protection and security for your
pets—in a kennel, around the home
or at animal shelters—are economi-
cally assured with Realock Chain
Link Fence. The weather resistant
galvanized steel (or aluminum) fab-
ric and framework keep unwanted
persons away and animals safe.
Available in a variety of heights
and sizes.

For a free estimate, additional in-
formation and quick service, consult
your classiﬁed telephone directory
or write our nearest ofﬁce.

 
  
 
   
   
  
   
  
  

THE COLORADO FUEL AND IRON
CORPORATION
Denver and Oakland

WICKWIRE SPENCER STEEL DIVISION
Buffalo, New York

 

REALOCK FENCE

THE COLORADO FUEL AND IRON CORPORATION
BRANCHES IN ALL KEY CITIES 6464

24

 




 

 

Bills were introduced before the New York State Legislature during the 1959
session. They were not passed. So it means there will be a job awaiting us

in Albany next January. You can be sure we will be there to complete it
successfully.

Part two of this subject pertains to people and industries which have helped
to make humane slaughter a reality. Some years ago a benefactor named
James Hopkins left the ASPCA a sum of money to be used to reward out-
standing improvements in slaughter methods.

Tonight the Hopkins Award, presented for the fourth time, will be given for
the ﬁrst successful production and use of an air-powered instrument, known
as the Thor stunner, to render animals insensible before slaughter.

It will be a four-way award shared by the inventor, Donald Willems, the
designer, Henry Spitzley, the Thor Power Tool Company, which manufactured
the instrument, and Armour and Company, which tested and encouraged the
development of the stunner and now uses it in its large meat packing plants
around the country. E. R. Wyler, Vice President and Director of Exports,
representing Thor Power Tool Company, and Edward McCrea, Northeast
Area controller of Armour and Company, will accept the sterling silver
plaques for their companies.

The ASPCA has one of the few outstanding humane society animal hospitals
-— not only in the United States —— but in the world. Its staff of ten veterin-
arians, a business manager, six clerks and eleven attendants are never idle. At
almost any hour during any day of the week, including Sunday, the benches

 

James
Hopkins
Award

Hospnal

with a heart

,The Thor stunner is an autorn _
wifitype, penetratmg tool which h ..
t'cattle' prior to slaughter "

producing instantaneous unconscmusne
- result is a minimum of fright, suﬁerin
' struggling on the part of the animm

The tool weighs less than eight pounds 7

:is virtually recoilless, an important Safety
tor for the operator. The stunner is powet'

 

by air pressure from a compact compressor
which can operate four stunners at once.

P Y _ c, _.

ontroller of Armour 8'; Company, which also received a plaque,

, r ' Donald Willems‘ (holding a Thor stunner) and Henry
’ ” 6f the fool, who reteived $1,000 each.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

  

Cockﬁght
in Brooklyn

 

Mrs. Peggy Ann Kent and her
escort admire dog puppet which was
part of the table decor at the
Animal Kingdom Ball.

In each instance the fowl had been shipped by Railway Express from a tele-
vision station in Baltimore as a publicity stunt to advertise the station.

No means to feed or water the chickens had been provided en route, and

upon arrival in New York’s skyscrapers they became immediately expendable.
Would we pick them up?

Naturally we did. But this is only part of the story.

How to impress on the publicity man who thought up this freak stunt and
the broadcasting company which backed it what an inhumane act they had
committed was the next step. This sort of basic education is not easy. We
are sometimes looked upon as ultra-sensitive where animals are concerned.
And this attitude did pertain in the publicity ofﬁce involved. However, we
didn’t let it rest there. We took it to the president of the broadcasting com-
pany, who agreed with us that While there happened not to be any physical
suffering, the stunt was in bad taste. He wrote us to this effect and assured
us that it would never be repeated.

Another case involved outright cruelty to eight game-cocks being kept in a
basement in Brooklyn. Having been tipped off by a Fire Department lieu-
tenant who was on a routine building check-up, we sent a special agent,
accompanied by two detectives, to investigate.

The basement contained a cockﬁghrting pit three and one-half feet deep by
12 feet square, syringes, scales, vitamins and other equipment familiar in
cockﬁghting. One of the birds had an eye almost gouged out, several were
badly lacerated and there was no food or water visible in the area.

Our agent collected the cocks, worth about $500 each, and brought them to
the ASPCA Hospital. Our agent arrested two men on the scene and collected
the telltale equipment. The case came to trial on April 21, when both men
were found guilty. The sentences were stiff. One defendant received a $600

ﬁne plus ten days in jail and 30 days extra if he didn’t pay the ﬁne. The
second got a $300 ﬁne or 30 days in jail.

We hope this will put an end to Brooklyn cockﬁghts for a while.

 
 
 
  
 

  

 

 

 




is We "of about rhea

lakesters and cartoon '

 

 

 

“the forgotten member of the animal world?”

An animal once scorned as “the poor
man’s cow,” the dairy goat, is today re-
sponsible for a $100 million industry in this
country. The oft-misunderstood goat has
ﬁnally been recognized as a clean, highly
efficient producer of healthful milk.

Some boosters claim goat’s milk is nature’s
most perfect food. More conservative claims
are that it is more easily digested than cow’s
milk, is rich in various Vital mineral salts,
has an excellent flavor, and although it is
not a medicine or a cure-all, it is often pre-
scribed for invalids and babies.

One of the goat’s biggest promoters is
Helen C. Hunt, a long-time ASPCA member,
who has been raising Toggenburg goats for
20 years on her Shagbark dairy farm in
Washington, Connecticut. “Goats are the
forgotten people of the animal world in the
average public mind,” she says.

Goats don’t butt

Active in goat circles, Miss Hunt is a
director of the American Milk Goat Dairy
Association, a 55-year-old pedigree registra-
tion association. She is also currently pres-
ident of the National Toggenburg Breed
Club.

Miss Hunt has dedicated herself to coun-
teracting unsavory jibes and old wives’ tales
which make the animal the butt of jokesters
and comic strip artists. To set the record
straight: Coats positively do not eat tin cans.

12

Well-behaved goats do not butt, but they are
playful among themselves and horns can
cause accidents. For this reason goat-keepers
remove the horn buds from young kids be-
fore they grow out.

Cleanesf milking animals

The popular notion that goats have a dis-
agreeable odor is entirely untrue. The goat
odor comes from the buck, or male goat,
during the breeding season, and conscien-
tious dairymen house their bucks separately
to prevent the milk from absorbing unpleas-
ant odors in the barn. According to keepers,
the goat is the cleanest of milking animals.

Miss Hunt’s model two-acre dairy in mini-
ature has 15 milkers, many of them cham-
pions, and raises about 15 kids each year
for sale throughout the United States. Along
with one helper, she milks her goats by
hand and sells the milk on a local route.

By contrast, some large herds in the
country range up to 600 head. The largest
in the east is the Vitamilk Dairy in Harvard,
Massachusetts, which supplies much of New
England. In California most herds are very
large, with outputs of over 2,000 quarts a
day. The large dairies milk by machine and
have a pipeline system and tank storage like
the most modern cow dairy. In New York,
Walker Gordon distributes certiﬁed goat
milk, mostly from New Jersey dairies.

The cream from goat milk is said to make

delicious butter, whipped cream, cheese, ice
cream and cottage cheese.

A goat produces an average of two quarts
of milk a day. Miss Hunt’s Shagbark Pa-
tience topped the Toggenburg breed in pro-
duction a few years ago with 3,057 pounds
of milk and 104.9 pounds of fat in a 305-day
ofﬁcial test. (It takes 2.05 pounds of milk to
equal a quart.) Cattlemen should bear in
mind that this production comes from an
animal one-sixth the size of a cow.

Fat content varies among goat breeds just
as it does among cow breeds, with Nubian
goats corresponding to Jersey cows in gen-
eral high fat content of their milk. Other pop-
ular breeds in this country, besides Toggen-
burg and Nubian, are the Alpine and Saanen.

Milk easily digested

Surprisingly enough, if you were offered
properly produced goat milk, and didn’t
know it, you’d probably not be able to dis-
tinguish it from any other good, clean, fresh
milk. The main difference is that, because
of the tiny fat globules, the cream doesn’t
rise. This natural homogenization is one
reason Why the milk is so easily digested.
Another reason, according to exhaustive US.
Department of Agriculture tests, is that its
curds are small and soft.

It is alkaline in its reaction, while cow’s
milk is acid, a matter of great importance tc
persons suffering from hyperacidity of the

stomach. Many babies allergic to other milk,
and many frail, premature babies thrive on
raw goat milk. Those suffering from asthma
and ulcers often respond to a goat milk diet.

But many people drink goat’s milk just
because they like it. Mahatma Ghandi was
one. During the last few years of his life
he lived on goat milk. Winston Churchill is
known to prefer it.

Thrive in rugged terrains

According to Miss Hunt, the poet Carl
Sandburg has one of the ﬁnest herds in the
country. He and his wife raise Toggenburgs,
Nubians and Saanens in their Chikaming
Herd in Flat Rock, North Carolina.

Two years ago the American Milk Goat
Record Association sent a gift of 15 Nubian
goats to Dr. Albert Schweitzer at his hospi-
tal in Lambarene, Africa. Despite the peril-
ous trip, heat, ﬂies and lack of food in the
area, the goats survived and provided Dr.
Schweitzer’s patients with needed milk.

Other shipments have been sent to Japan,
Korea and many other milk-short countries
by Heifer Project, a church-sponsored group
which collects animals donated by American
farmers for shipment to needy countries.

Because of their adaptability to extreme
climates and foods, goats thrive in many
areas of the world where cows could not ex-
ist. In fact, goats produce 60 percent of the
world’s milk.

 

 

 




 

 

    

EDITORIAL

Controlled
scientific
research

Last May 28 two monkeys became the
ﬁrst passengers to travel by missile into
outer space and return alive. In recognition
of the event, the ASPCA presented its Medal
of Honor and Certiﬁcate of Merit to space
monkey Baker on June 29, thus marking the
ﬁrst time a major humane organization has
given its nod of approval to controlled scien-
tiﬁc research. (See story on page 2.)

A dual purpose prompted the award.
Primarily, it was conferred in appreciation
of the hazards to which this small animal
was exposed and the risks and sacriﬁces for
which her fellows may be called upon in the
future. But the award also represents the
ASPCA’S awareness that it is time for the
humane movement to record its realization
that it is only through worthwhile carefully
controlled scientiﬁc research, along paths
such as that on which Able and Baker were
pathﬁnders, that further progress to the
mutual beneﬁt of man and animals can be
achieved, and the knowledge so vitally nec-
essary for the preservation of our way of life

together on this earth obtained.

ukmnmv—

William Rockefeller
President

, animal
  protection _

FALL 1959

   

VOL.1& NO.2

Janice Paprin, Editor

IN THIS ISSUE

ASPCA Honors Missile Monkeys. 2
Picturing Pets ................... 4
The Doctor Listens .............. 7
Traveling Abroad with Your Pet. . 8
The Forgotten Member

of the Animal World .......... 12
Above and Beyond the Call ....... 14
Animal Antics ................... 17
Women at Work ................ 2O
Cap-ture in the Bronx ........... 21
The Cats’ Meow ................. 22
Letters .......................... 25
How I Care for My Pony ......... 27

Annual Report Section
ASPCA’s Year in Review ......... 28
Committees ..................... 37
Figures Behind the Facts ........ 38
Financial Statements ............. 40
Staff ............................ 42
Form of Bequest ................ 44

ASPCA Services ..... Inside back cover

 

Cover picture

Miss Baker, the one-pound squirrel monkey
who ﬂew 360 miles into outer space by rocket
last May 28 proudly wears the medal of honor

awarded her by the ASPCA. (Story on page 2.)
Ofﬁcial U.$. Navy photo

Animal Protection is published three times yearly
by The American Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, Editorial Ofﬁce, 30 East 60th
Street, New York 22, N. Y.




 

me

um;

(I) .

1
e

 

THE D OR LISTEN

 

 

 

Tumors in animals
by the Veterinary Staff
ASPCA Hospital and Clinic

What are tumors?

In a broad sense, a tumor means any
swelling. But medically speaking, tumors (or
neoplasms) are new growths of tissues with-
in or on an animal’s body or a human body.

Neoplasms or tumors may be either benign
or maligant. Benign neoplasms do not en-
danger an animal’s life, whereas malignant
tumors do. The term cancer denotes any
malignant tumor.

Among the most frequent tumors found in
dogs and cats are breast tumors (most often
in unspayed females that have had no lit-
ters), skin tumors and anal tumors.

Symptoms

Any abnormal swelling on your pet’s body
should be checked by your veterinarian. It
does not necessarily mean that your animal
has cancer. If the swelling is a neoplasm,
there is a good chance it might be benign.
Also, abnormal swellings can be caused by
other conditions such as cysts, hematomas
and abscesses.

Other symptoms that may point to cancer
are:

0 lack of pep and energy

0 pale mucous membranes in the mouth and
eyes

0 abnormal swelling of the abdomen

0 difficulty in breathing

o bleeding from any body opening such as
nose or mouth

a ' swelling of the lymph nodes

Treatment

Surgery is the therapy of choice in most
cases where the neoplasm is small enough
and so located that it can be removed with-
out permanent damage to a vital organ. If
detected at an early stage, the neoplasms can
be removed more easily.

If a malignant neoplasm has metastasized
(spread to other parts of the body through
the blood stream), surgery is not performed.
In some cases an X-ray is helpful in deter-
mining if such metastases have occurred.

Treatment of certain types of neoplasms
with X-rays and Beta-rays has produced
some cures and some temporary responses.
However, because of their high cost, most
animal hospitals don’t have this equipment.

Tremendous effort is now being expended
in trying to ﬁnd drugs that will cure cancer.
To date none are completely effective, al-
though many have given temporary relief
when used to combat certain types of cancer.

Joint research effort

At present the ASPCA Hospital is cooper-
ating with the Sloan-Kettering Institute for
Cancer Research in a program to apply the
newest techniques for treating cancer in
humans to dog victims of the disease. The
aim of the collaborate effort is to treat dogs
as effectively as possible, to learn more about
this disease, and ultimately to turn this
knowledge to the beneﬁt of both animals and
humans.

With the owner’s permission, tissue speci-
mens removed from animals during surgery
or autopsy are sent to Sloan-Kettering, which
determines whether the neoplasm is benign
or malignant. In certain types of cancer
where the situation is hopeless and the pa-
tient has only a short time to live, we have
an opportunity to try new drugs that have
already shown a tendency to arrest cancer.
The only charge to the dog owner is a small
diagnostic fee.

With such exchange of experience in study
and treatment we may one day ﬁnd the drug
that will overcome this dread disease.




 

 

Queens District Manager Robert B. Ferris presents
medals to Patrolmen Bernard Doyle and Robert
Kennedy for rescuing drowning afghan.

New York Journal American photo

French Foreign Legion honored

During the past year the ASPCA award
for unusual bravery or service where ani-
mals are concerned went to the French
Foreign Legion for an act of kindness in
saving the life of an abandoned and starving
donkey.

Soldiers of the 13th Demi Brigade in
Algeria, operating out of Sidi Bel Abbes,
discovered the weak, emaciated animal lying
in a field. Reversing the centuries-old role
of the donkey, the men packed the beast of
burden on the back of a legionnaire and
carried him back to the post.

As mascot of the regiment, Bambi now is
inscribed on the roll call and takes part in
all campaigns. He even refuses hay, pre-

ferring the soldiers’ ration of vegetables,
meat and fruit.

Six Rhode Island firemen cited

Six ﬁremen were awarded medals for res-
cuing a dog from the icy water of Narra-
gansett Bay in Providence, Rhode Island.
The dog had apparently broken through the
ice while chasing ducks. The ﬁremen in their
rescue boat scooped the dog from the water
about 50 yards offshore, after it had vainly

M

 

  

ABOVE
AND
BEYOND
THE CALL . . .

Medal of Honor
Awards for

Outstanding Bravery

struggled for 30 minutes to climb on top of
the breaking ice. The shivering but other-
wise unharmed dog was wrapped in blankets
and taken to the yacht club to warm up. The
ﬁremen cited were Glen Nelson, Norman
Robert, Leonard Forrest, Jr., Harold F. Ben-
way, Ronald S. Jones and Alfred V. Moretti.

Helicopter rescue cited

Police patrolmen Bernard Doyle and Rob-
ert Kennedy were presented with medals for
their dramatic helicopter rescue last winter
of a drowning afghan hound, Kiki, owned
by Mrs. Lydia Gallagher of Flushing. The
dog fell through the ice while hunting
pheasants on Willowbrook Pond in Flushing
Meadow Park. Patrolman Kennedy hovered
over the dog while his co-pilot climbed down
and pulled the 60-pound dog aboard.

Posthumous award presented

A posthumous medal was awarded to Ver-
non W. Bailey, 22, of Kalamazoo, Michigan,
who died while saving his hunting dog Boots.
The beagle ran onto a railway track as a
train was coming. Mr. Bailey pushed his dog
off the track, but was struck and fatally
injured by the train. Kalamazoo Mayor Glen

 

 
    

 

 




 

CONDENSED BALANC»: s
APRIL 30,1959;

ASSETS . , ,

Cash . .

Investments ~—-—~ Book Va ue‘t'

_ (Market Values .-.—~—

Trust Funds . .

Real Estate and Equlpment -~' "
Sundry AsSets . gt

Total Assets
LIABILITIES; RESE

Accounts Payable ——— Curfew;

Sundry Payables :.;7. .

 




ASPCA honors missile

In a move to recognize the legitimate and
beneﬁcial place of animals in controlled
scientiﬁc research, the ASPCA has presented
its medal of honor and certiﬁcate of merit
to monkeys Able and Baker, the ﬁrst passen-
gers to return alive from a missile journey
into outer space. A

The monkeys ﬂew 1,700 miles in the nose
cone of a Jupiter rocket ﬁred from Cape
Canaveral on May 28. During the 15-minute
ﬂight Able and Baker, in a specially equipped
capsule, soared 360 miles high and reached
a speed of 10,000 miles an hour. The test
provided data for future human space ﬂights.

Tiny Miss Baker, the one-pound squirrel
monkey, received her medal from ASPCA
president William Rockefeller at the U. S.
Naval School of Aviation Medicine, Pensa-
cola, Florida. Dr. Dietrich E. Beischer, proj-
ect director who trained Baker for the nose

Official U.S. Navy photos

Alfred Thomas is ﬁrst to congratulate Baker while
Dr. Stullken, Dr. Beischer and Mr. Rockefeller
look on.

cone journey, accepted the award.

Able, the rhesus monkey who died as a
result of an operation shortly after the his-
toric ﬂight, was cited posthumously at the
Smithsonian Institute in Washington.

Miss Baker, now reigning queen of the
monkey colony at Pensacola, has great poise,
undoubtedly as a result of her traveling ex-
perience. At the medal-awarding ceremonies
the simian calmly held the center of atten-
tion as Mr. Rockefeller read the citation.

She held still on the arm of a Navy
corpsman when the bright gold medal was
hung around her neck. After accepting the
award, she sniffed at it, tried to take a bite,
found it wasn’t edible and tucked it under
her arm, as if to protect it.

According to Dr. Donald E. Stullken, who
headed the recovery team, Baker was chosen
to make the ﬂight because she voluntarily

Miss Baker, dwarfed by the ASPCA certiﬁcate of
merit, poses beside the capsule in which she
made her historic ﬂight.

 

 

monkeys

stepped into the capsule in preliminary tests.

Louis Reynal, ASPCA Secretary, accom-
panied Mr. Rockefeller. Among the Navy
personnel who spoke were Vice Admiral
Robert Goldthwaite, Chief of Naval Air
Training Command, Captain Langdon New-
man, Commanding Ofﬁcer of the School of
Aviation Medicine, and Dr. Stullken.

Baker’s certiﬁcate is inscribed: “This one-
pound squirrel monkey, along with her sim-
ian companion Able, was one of two Amer-
ican pioneers to travel 360 miles into outer
space, thus blazing the trail for human
beings who will follow and widen the hori-
zons of scientiﬁc knowledge, which will even-
tually beneﬁt all of who who dwell on the
earth, whether animal or human.”

The story of Miss Baker’s medal of honor
appeared in Life Magazine, 152 newspapers,
Paramount Newsreel and on radio.

' a-szx- 5 .s Abya-z-n'oan-wp %

Baker squirms in the arms of a Navy corpsman
as Vice Admiral Robert Goldthwaite addresses
the assemblage. looking on are (left to right) Dr.
Beischer, Mr. Rockefeller and Captain Newman.

 

 




 

NEW WINNER!
«6;:

 
    

ALSO
AVA‘LABLE
\N 50 l-B- “ .
BAGS FOR “ ................
KENNELS. \
\ ASK YOUR
PE“ FOOD ......... .
SUPPL‘ER

 
     
   
   
   
   
  

Sizes: lO‘/4 02s., 30 01s., 4 lbs., 20 lbs.

DOG DINNER

(REPLACES PAL TINY BITS) ®

   
 
 

N ow—a “complete food” that has been thoroughly tested for
3 years on 3 generations of dogs! Puppies and full-grown dogs—fed
exclusively on new Pal Dog Dinner—met every standard of sound
and healthy growth our nutritional experts demand. There’s no need
to add vegetables or meat or milk or supplements of any kind. Keep
your dog on a steady diet of Pal Dog Dinner and watch him thrive!

 

Disi'emp'l'er bafﬂe nant females to Cornell’s College of Veter-
. inary Medicine, Ithaca, N. Y. They will be
closer to Victory

told at what age the puppies should be
There is a new development in the battle vaccinated—even before they are born.
against distemper that will save the lives of

 

thousands of dogs, and brings closer ﬁnal

Victory over the highly contagious disease.
A recent discovery makes it possible, by

means of a serological test, to ﬁnd out the

  

degree of immunity that a dog possesses and

  
 

exactly when a puppy should be vaccinated. Great way

to buy stocks

Ordinarily, puppies are not vaccinated
until the age of three months. Distemper

vaccine is not effective unless the dog is Reqmres only $40 a month, or

. . . every 3. months. Choxce of any
SUSCBPUMC, and as Young PUPPIES vaUII‘e an of 1,200 stocks listed on New
immunity from their mothers, vaccination is York Stock Exchange. Start any
not effective until this immunity is lost. time.Qultanyume—nopenalues.

Now however the waiting period of three wme for free booklet

a a V '

months will no longer be necessary when THOMSON & MCKINNON

 

this new diagnostic service is used. Veter- 2Broadway, New York
. - MEMBERS NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE I
1nar1ans can send serum samples from preg- .. A

 

 

 

 

 




\’___._m__...__\a- ... .

 

    

LETTERS

 

 

Missing cat

D May I express my appreciation for the courtesy
and efﬁciency shown by your association while I
was trying to locate my missing cat recently. Your
Mr. Rhodes was patient and polite, and his kind-
ness helped so much when I felt so depressed over
my loss.

Mrs. H. R. Fauth

Richmond Hill, N. Y.

Bronx shelter praised

> Thank you and your staff for the manner in
which you took care of my dog during the time
he was being checked for rabies as a result of
biting a small child on the face. The efﬁcient per-
formance of your personnel, the clean and sanitary
conditions of your building, and the general opera-
tion of your organization can only reflect the
quality of your supervision and leadership.

C. Shelly

Corona, N. Y.

Children contribute

> My schoolmate Susan Speers and I love animals.
My grandmother belongs to the ASPCA. We thought
we should give some money. We are. both 10 years
old. We put a dollar in every Sunday. Susan has
given 29¢ and I have given $6.36. It maybe isn't
very much to you, but it’s a lot to us. You can
put this money in any department that you like,
for I couldn’t decide. I have a cat, dog and ﬁsh.
They love me and I love them.

Lindsay Ann Crouse

New York, N. Y.
Vote of conﬁdence

>I have read your recent ANIMAL PROTECTION
with increasing interest and with a sense of enthu-
siasm for the way in which our Society is facing
up to the times and the present-day situations in
animal welfare.

I am glad to see the rejuvenated structures and
the wider spread of care you have accomplished.
I am all for the instruction of the young, and
elders, too, in the care and treatment of animals.

As you must know by now, the ASPCA is my
favorite (and only) charity. Thank you again for
all the things you do, for the imagination which
drives the Society today, and for the good work

 

which goes on all the time without fanfare, agita-
tion, hysteria, or the manifold noises which accom-
pany so much of our “good works” today.
Mrs. P. B. McDonald
Bronx, N. Y.

Help for stranded cat

> Enclosed is a contribution my husband, son and
I feel impelled to make to the Society because the
humane work you do was brought home to us by
one of your men. This very kind person left a
warm house and his Sunday dinner to come to
Glen Cove where snow was falling heavily—just
to bring down a high perched cat that had been
treed by a dog.

Mrs. Chris J. Deprospo

Glen Cove, N. Y.

25 and 50 year members

Ed. Note: This year two supporters reached their
50th year as ASPCA members and ten their 25th
year as active members. They received gold pins
entitling them to membership in our 25 and 50
years clubs. Following are a few of their replies.
> Words fail me in expressing to you my sincere
appreciation for the 25 year gold pin entitling me
to membership in the 25 year club. I shall cherish
the pin and will be proud to let all of my friends
know about it. I have been to the Butler Street
shelter many, many times.

Mrs. Mabel E. Sahl
Brooklyn, N. Y.

> Thanks for the little pin which admits me to
the 50 year club. A pleasant reminder.
Mrs. Richard Aldrich
Barrytown, N. Y.

P Thank you very much for your kind letter and
the gold pin entitling me to membership in your
25 year club. My contributions have been so small
that I had no idea they were of any real help.
Miss Clara M. Smith
East Orange, N. .l.

> Many thanks for the beautiful pin and the very
kind wishes. May I extend my warmest regards to
you and the great work you are doing, together
with all the interested friends.
Mrs. George S. Burnam
Richmond, Kentucky

25

 

 

 

 




Needy
cases
treated tree

 
 

 

A worried little girl holds her pet Jiggs
as ASPCA veterinarian bandages the dog’s
iniured leg. Almost 39,000 animals

were cared for at the Hospital

   

in the waiting room are ﬁlled with owners and their pets.

For those who don’t want to wait their turn, there is a Special Appointment
Service. There is a charge of $5 for this privilege. The fees generally are
average, except for those who cannot afford to pay.

About 35 percent of our hospital calls fall into the charity bracket, which
accounts for a deﬁcit of $118,565 last year. This situation is typical of most
hospitals, which could not fulﬁll their fundamental purpose of caring for the
sick and needy on fees alone. And our hospital, along with human hospitals,
depends on contributions from those who can afford to help others. Since
ASPCA members are generous in their response to our hospital appeals, I
thought you might like to know something about how we determine whether
an animal owner is worthy of our help.

Take the case of Mrs. F of the Bronx, for instance. Mrs. F said she was a
shut-in. Her dog had a bad skin infection. She couldn’t bring it in, nor afford

to send it in a taxi with a neighbor. Could we pick it up? And would we
keep the dog until it was cured?

We explained that we would have to check her statement that she couldn’t pay
for the ambulance or the treatments. She understood, and directed us to the
Department of Welfare investigator in charge of her case, to the Dominican
Sisters of the Sick who cared for her, and to one of our own license inspectors
who had visited her to check up on her dog licenses.

Beauty, Mrs. F’s dog, was in our hospital for eight days, where it received
appropriate treatment and medical care. When it arrived home its happy
owner wrote to express her gratitude. “Beauty looks wonderful,” she wrote.
“How can I ﬁnd words to thank the ASPCA for all its kindness? At Christ-
mas, when I usually get a few dollars from my friends I put aside $6 for the
licenses for my two dogs— and this year I will also send a small amount to
you as a contribution for your ﬁne work.”

Mrs. F did send her gift and has kept in touch with us by letter and ’phone
calls. We hope you will agree that she and Beauty were worthy of assistance.

and Clinic last year.

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
 

 

 
 
     
  




 

 

 

    
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
    

Members of the active Women’s Volunteer Division, under the leadership of
Mrs. George Hayman, pooled their thoughts and energy to produce four major
events during the ﬁscal year just closed: the Carnival for Animals Dinner
Dance on Long Island; The Ark— a pre-Christmas shop for the sale of bric-
a-brac, silver, glassware and other merchandise contributed by friends and
members; the Animal Kingdom Ball, held at the Pierre Hotel in January;
and the Adopt-a-Pet Parade on Easter Sunday.

This group also covered exhibits at the National Horse Show, the Westminster
Kennel Club Dog Show and the Empire Cat Show. Many of the members have
given their services ever since the volunteer division was formed eight years
ago. Not only do they raise substantial sums for the Society, but they are
builders of good-will and, therefore, good public relations.

The chief reason for their great enthusiasm is ASPCA’s Adoption Service.

Finding homes for the homeless and watching unattached animals become
well-loved and cared-for pets is one of the most rewarding experiences in
humane work.

It is, therefore, with a combination of sentiment and pride that I announce
another new high in our adoption record. During the last ﬁve years we have
just almost doubled the number of animals placed—the ﬁgure this past
year being 19,039.

Although the answer appears each year in the statistics reported in the
Annual Report issue of ANIMAL PROTECTION, the question is sometimes raised
as to Why such large numbers of animals are put to sleep.

Many of them are, as you can imagine, in such poor physical condition that
humane destruction is the only possible solution. However, in two-thirds of
the cases the decision does not lie with the ASPCA, but with the owners or
others who bring them into our shelters. Where destruction is requested, we
must abide by this choice.

There is a law in New York State called the Metcalf-Hatch Act which requires
all humane organizations receiving public funds to make unlicensed, unwanted
or unclaimed animals available for experimental purposes to laboratories
approved for this purpose by the New York State Department of Health.

Children choose a kitten for adoption
through the plate glass window of the
Brooklyn shelter’s cat adoption ward.

A record 19,039 animals were

adopted last year.

Volunteer
activities

Homes found
for 19,039
animals if.

 




 

 

 

 

 




 

Traveling Abroad with Your Pet
(Continued from Page 9)

Guatemala

No quarantine. Health certiﬁcate required
to be signed by a Department of Health
veterinarian, then certiﬁed by Consulate.
Haiti

No quarantine, but dog will be checked
by veterinarian in Haiti. Health certiﬁcate
and certiﬁcate of rabies vaccination required.

Honduras

N o quarantine. Health certiﬁcate signed by
veterinarian of Department of Health and
rabies vaccination certiﬁcate required.

Ireland

Quarantine period—six months. Obtain
importation license from Department of
Agriculture, Kildare Street, Dublin, Ireland.
Only ports of entry are Dublin and Cork
Ports and Dublin and Shannon Airports.

India

Write to the nearest Indian Consulate.

Iran

No quarantine. Certiﬁcate of health notar-
ized and certiﬁed by Consulate.
Iraq

No quarantine. Health certiﬁcate and cer-
tiﬁcate of rabies vaccination must be signed
by licensed veterinarian, notarized, certiﬁed
by County Clerk and Consulate of Iraq.
Israel

No quarantine. Rabies and health certiﬁ-
cates signed by licensed veterinarian.
Italy

No quarantine. Health certiﬁcate required.
Rabies vaccination at discretion of veterin-
arian. Must be notarized, certiﬁed by County
Clerk and certiﬁed by Italian Consulate.
Japan
, .Quarantine period—30 to 90 days. Rabies
vaccination and health certiﬁcates reqUired.
Must be not less than 21 days or more than
150 days old and issued in duplicate.
Jordan

No quarantine. Certiﬁcates of health and

10

rabies vaccination signed by licensed veterin-
arian and certiﬁed by Jordanian Consulate.

Lebanon

No quarantine. Health and rabies certiﬁ-
cates signed by licensed veterinarian, notar-
ized, certiﬁed by County Clerk, then certiﬁed
by Lebanese Consulate. If owner’s residence
is outside ﬁve boroughs of New York, certi-
ﬁcation by Secretary of State is necessary.
Liberia

No quarantine. Health and rabies certiﬁ-
cates signed by licensed veterinarian, notar-
ized and certiﬁed by Liberian Consulate.

Luxemburg

No quarantine. Health certiﬁcate and cer-
tiﬁcate of rabies vaccination signed by li-
censed veterinarian and notarized.

Mexico

No quarantine. Certiﬁcate of health and
certiﬁcates of rabies vaccination and distem-
per inoculation must be presented at Mexi-
can Consulate. Entry permit will be issued.

Monaco
Same as France.

Netherlands

No quarantine. Dog must be vaccinated
against rabies by licensed veterinarian at
least one month and not more than twelve
months before departure, using nerve tissue
vaccine, vaccine grown on eggs or Flury
strain. Only Behring, Pasteur and Pitman-
Moore vaccines may be used, which require
two injections and one month must elapse
after second injection before departure. Or
by Lederle one-injection method. Rabies and
health certiﬁcates signed by veterinary sur-
geon and sent to US. Agriculture Research
Service, Animal Inspection 81 Quarantine
Branch for certiﬁcation.

New Zealand
Entry for dogs and cats prohibited.
Nicaragua

No quarantine. Certiﬁcate of health and
rabies signed by licensed veterinarian.

Norway
Quarantine period—seven months. Write

 




YEARS OF
SERVICE

46
35
33
32
32
31
31
31
30
30
30
29
29
29
29
28
27
27
25
25
24
23
23
23
23
23
22
22
22
21
21
21
21
21
20
19
19
18
17
17
17
16
16
16
16
16
16
15
15
15
14
14

42

Staff in service 5

NAME BOROUGH POSITION

William Ryan ................... Manhattan ....... Garage Foreman ............... July
Mary Robbins Boland ........... Brooklyn ......... License Clerk .................. Mar.
Agnes J. Riddell ................ Manhattan ....... Chief Clerk, Hosp ............... Nov.
James J. McKenna .............. Long Beach ...... Shelter Manager ............... July

Walter A. Hillsinger ............. Queens .......... Special Agent ................. Sept.

Frederick R. Grassick ........... Brooklyn ......... Mechanic ...................... May
John F. Joule ................... Brooklyn ......... Special Agent .................. Aug.

Henry F. Klebbe ................ Manhattan ....... Attendant ..................... Sept.

William Sims .................... Manhattan ....... Kennel Foreman ............... Oct.
R. W. Allen ...................... Manhattan ....... Cashier and Asst. Treasurer ..... Feb.
Robert B. Ferris ................. Queens .......... District Manager ............... Apr.
Stephen Dunn ................... Brooklyn ......... Attendant ..................... May
N. Michael Bromley ............. Bronx ........... District Manager ............... June
R. J. Mulligan ................... Bronx ........... Special Agent .................. Nov.
Alfred Werthmiller .............. Brooklyn ......... License Officer ................. Dec.
Henry Koppelmann ............. Manhattan ....... Mechanic ...................... Jan.
Thomas A. Barnshaw ............ Manhattan ....... Chauffeur ..................... Nov.
Frederick L. Kusterbeck ........ Queens .......... Attendant ..................... Nov.
Patrick J. Sutton ................ Manhattan ....... Attendant ..................... June
James T. Dibble ................ Queens .......... License Ofﬁcer ................. Oct.
Alfred J. D’Alessio .............. Manhattan ....... Special Agent .................. Apr.
Thomas A. Fegan ............... Manhattan ....... Business Mgr. Hosp ............. Sept.
Thomas C. Bishop ............... Queens .......... Kennelman .................... Sept.
Robert Manson .................. Manhattan ....... Shelter Foreman ............... Feb.
Francis Melvin ................... Manhattan ....... District Manager ............... Feb.
Walter L. Hollinde .............. Richmond ........ District Manager ............... June-
Charles W. Woodford ........... Bronx ........... License Clerk .................. Oct.
Harry J. Connolly ............... Brooklyn ......... District Manager ............... Dec.
Thomas J. Murphy .............. Brooklyn ......... Shelter Foreman ............... Dec.
Arthur L. Amundsen ............ Manhattan. . . . . . .Director of Operations ..... . ..... May
Walter F. Taylor ................ Richmond ....... Shelter Foreman ................ May
Edgar M. Smith ................. Manhattan ....... Purchasing Agent .............. June
John Malone .................... Brooklyn ......... Attendant ..................... Dec.
Vincent J. Patterson ............. Glen Cove ........ Shelter Manager. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Apr.
John Stitzel ..................... Brooklyn ......... Special Agent ................. Apr.
Thomas L. Regan ................ Manhattan ....... Special Agent ................. July
Robert P. Hammatt ............. Brooklyn ......... Special Agent ................. Nov.
John J. Kindya ................. Manhattan ....... Custodian ..................... Oct.
Paul Pisarik ..................... Manhattan ....... Utility Man ................... June
Joseph C. Schlesinger ........... Manhattan ....... Special Agent ................. Sept
Thomas J. Morton ............... Bronx ........... Chauffeur ..................... Nov
John C. Manck .................. Brooklyn ......... License Officer ................. May
Louis C. Baer ................... Manhattan ....... Shelter Clerk .................. Nov.
James L. Kenny ................. Manhattan ....... Kennelman .................... Nov.
Charles J. Klingenbeck .......... Queens .......... Chauffeur ..................... Nov
Edward J. Dillon ................ Manhattan ....... Chauffeur ..................... Mar.
Christopher W. Kempen ......... Queens .......... Chauffeur ..................... Apr.
Arthur G. Thornton ............. Bronx ........... Chauffeur ..................... July
Arthur Richardson .............. Brooklyn ........ Chauffeur ..................... Oct.
Albert A. Hettrick ............... Richmond ........ Attendant ..................... Nov.
Raymond Studwell .............. Queens .......... License Officer ................. July
Winifred C. Sullivan ............ Brooklyn ........ Shelter Clerk .................. Oct.

BEGAN

8,1912
31,1924
30,1925
12,1926
7,1926
6,1927
19,1927
15,1927
15,1928
18,1929
8,1929
9,1929
9,1929
16,1929
29,1929
16,1931
1,1931
16,1931
18,1933
20,1933
16,1935
14,1935
16,1935
3,1936
24,1936
16,1936
16,1936
1,1936
1,1936
1,1937
3,1937
9,1937
8,1937
1,1938
1,1939
1,1939
24,1939
16,1940
16,1941

. 16, 1941
. 28,1941

11, 1942
1, 1942
10, 1942

. 16, 1942

16,1943
26,1943
16,1943
16,1943

1,1943

1,1944
18,1044

 

 

 

years to 46 years

YEARS OF
SERVICE

14
13
13
13
13
12
12
12
12
12
11
11
11
11
11
10
10
10
10

mmum0101meoacxmcxcxa-qunquqqqmoooooooocoooooxoxo

NAME BOROUGH POSITION

James J. Whalen ................ Queens ......... Night Kennelman .............. Dec.
Fred W. Smith .................. Brooklyn ......... Attendant ..................... July
Arthur T. Goebler ............... Queens .......... Chauffeur ..................... Aug.
George F. Donnelly .............. Queens .......... License Ofﬁcer ................. Feb.
William R. Price ................ Bronx ........... License Officer ................. Feb.
Howard J. Dupuis ............... Manhattan ....... Special Agent .................. May
James S. Pereda ................ Manhattan ....... Asst. to Dist. Manager .......... July
Peter Kulek ..................... Manhattan ....... Asst. Utility Man .............. Oct.
John Rheinheimer .............. Brooklyn ......... Chauffeur ..................... Nov.
William A. Dreizler ............. Bronx ........... Attendant ..................... Nov.
Janice Paprin Lemberger ....... Manhattan ....... Ed., Animal Protection .......... June
George H. Tuscher .............. Manhattan ....... Dir. of Humane Work .......... July
Thomas V. Sheehan ............. Manhattan ....... Attendant ..................... Oct.
James J. O’Keefe ................ Richmond ........ Chauffeur ..................... Dec.
Dorothy G. Boyd ................ Manhattan ....... Clerk ......................... Apr.
Morris W. Thomas .............. Brooklyn ......... Chauffeur ..................... Aug.
Lillian J. Galvin ................. Brooklyn ......... Asst. License Clerk ............ Aug.
Edna L. Meudt .................. Queens .......... License Clerk ................. Aug.
Andrew Sherbo .................. Manhattan ....... Attendant ..................... Mar.
Gaetano T. Manfre .............. Brooklyn ......... License Ofﬁcer ................. Mar.
Charles R. Adams ............... Manhattan ....... Attendant ..................... Apr.
Frank J. Michalek ............... Manhattan ....... License Ofﬁcer ................. July
Calvin E. Klinger ................ Bronx ........... Shelter Foreman ............... July
Charles T. Milmerstadt .......... Queens .......... Asst. License Clerk ............ July
William Rhodes ................. Queens .......... Kennelman .................... Sept.
Edna B. Jordan ................. Manhattan ....... Telephone Operator ............. Dec.
Joseph Aranzullo ................ Manhattan ....... Chauffeur ..................... Dec.
Norman H. Johnson ............. Manhattan ....... Veterinarian ................... Jan.
Norman H. Halpern ............. Manhattan ....... Kennelman .................... Feb.
Jack B. DeLese .................. Brooklyn ......... Chauffeur ..................... May
Calvin R. Benﬁeld ............... Manhattan ....... Chauffeur ..................... June
Helen E. Hoey ................... Brooklyn ........ Asst. to Dist. Manager .......... Aug.
June Eliot ....................... Manhattan ....... Director, Public Relations ...... Aug.
Frances M. Labuda .............. Manhattan ....... Secretary, Public Relations ...... Aug.
Victor E. Balluf’f ................ Brooklyn ......... Special Agent .................. Sept.
Richard Silverman .............. Manhattan ....... Bookkeeper .................... Feb.
James J. Rosenthal ............. Brooklyn ......... Chauffeur ..................... Apr.
Donald J. Schroeder ............. Manhattan ....... Auditor ....................... May

Rose D. Wolfman ............... Manhattan ....... License Clerk .................. Sept.

Harriet Altman .................. Manhattan ....... Clerk ......................... Oct.
John P. Jolly .................... Brooklyn ......... Chauffeur ..................... Jan.
Bronislaw Kawczynski ........... Manhattan ....... Janitor ........................ Jan.
Michael A. Curci ................. Richmond ........ License Officer ................. Feb.
Frank V. Manza ................. Manhattan ....... Chauffeur ........... . .......... Feb.
Henry L. Zwicker ................ Bronx ........... License Ofﬁcer ................. Feb.
Walter J. Mahoney .............. Bronx ........... License Ofﬁcer ................. May
Elliott A. Epstein ................ Brooklyn ......... License Officer ................. May
Frank R. Camfora ............... Richmond ........ Chauffeur ..................... June
John Ligaspi .................... Queens .......... Shelter Foreman ............... June
Albert Murray, Jr. ............... Queens .......... Kennelman .................... July
Norma R. Domena .............. Manhattan ....... Clerk ......................... Jan.
James Main ..................... Queens .......... Kennelman .................... Jan.
George J. Devlin ................ Bronx ........... Chauffeur ..................... Apr.

BEGAN

4,1944
23,1945
22,1945

1,1946

1,1946

4,1946
16,1946
16,1946

1,1946

6,1946

3,1947

1,1947
16,1947

1,1947

1,1948

1,1948

1,1948
16,1948
22,1949
20,1950
13,1950

3,1950
19,1950
19,1950

6,1950
20,1950
20,1950
15,1951
19,1951
25,1951

7,1951
14,1951
16,1951
16,1951
10,1951
27,1952
28,1952
26,1952

3,1952
29,1952
14,1953
26,1953

6,1953
18,1953
19,1953

4,1953
18,1953
11,1953
24,1953
22,1953

1,1954
20,1954

7,1954

43

 

 

 

 




 

 

Puppy says thanks to Richard Barth who saved
him from drowning.
New York Journal American photo

Allen presented the posthumous award to
the young man’s Widow.

Boy saves drowning dog

Sixteen-year old Richard Barth received
an award for rescuing a drowning puppy
from the cold, murky water of Upper New
York Bay, off the 69th Street pier, Brooklyn.
Richard was playing checkers in an aban-
doned barge with his friends when he heard
the dog whine. He took off his clothes, donned
a life jacket and jumped in, as his friends
played a searchlight on the black water. He
reached the dog, put him on the life jacket
and pulled him to the pilings. The bedrag-
gled pup was immediately named Sandy and
adopted by the boys.

Policeman saves Butch

Patrolman Frank Kangas waded though
icy water up to his knees in Central Park
Lake to rescue an airdale named Butch.
Removing his cap, shirt and coat, gun belt
and shoes, he broke through the ice and
carried the dog back to shore.

Saves poodle from fire

Nils G. Petterson was honored for his res-
cue of a poodle from the ﬁfth ﬂoor of a

 

Cited at annual meeting were (I. to r.) Nils
Petterson, Patrolman Frank Kangas, Fire I.t. Hugh
McCabe, and Joseph Roncase. Young Frank Lu-
pino, Jr. holds cat rescued by Mr. Roncase and
adopted by Frank’s family.

burning building. He was on his way to
work when he passed the house. A woman
crying hysterically told him her dog was
trapped inside. He ran up one flight of
stairs after the other until he reached the
ﬁfth floor where he found the dog. Carrying
the poodle, he stumbled down the smoky
steps and collapsed on the sidewalk with
smoke poisoning.

Bridge operator rescues cat

Joseph Roncase, Assistant Bridge Operator
for the New York City Department of Public
Works, rescued a frightened kitten stranded
on an ice ﬂoe 20 feet from the bridge where
he was on duty. Using an iron bar Mr. Ron-
case pulled the cake of ice toward him,
picked up the half-frozen animal, took it to
the bridge house and fed it some warm milk.
He later found a home for the kitten with
Mr. and Mrs. Frank Lupino of Whitestone.

Cock fight prevented

Fire Lieutenant Hugh McCabe received a
medal for reporting evidence of a cock ﬁght
in Brooklyn which he gathered while on a
routine building check-up. His report re-
sulted in the arrest and conviction of the two
men who instigated the cruel sport.

15

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

Women
at
work

Last year the ASPCA found homes for
19,039 animals, almost four times the num-
ber placed ten years ago. It’s no coincidence
that this steady rise in adoptions parallels
the growth of the ASPCA Women’s Volun-
teer Division. In the eight years since it
was organized, the women have pin-pointed
their fund-raising and publicity efforts on
the Adoption Service. Their enthusiasm and
support have netted thousands of dollars, but
more important, they have gained good will
for the Society.

Two new projects were undertaken last
year by volunteers in Nassau and West-
chester, where the ASPCA recently set up
shelter operations. An Advertisers Almanac
was mailed to ASPCA supporters in Long
Island. It contained an almanac section of
pertinent information on Nassau County, and
was paid for by ads from Long Island mer-
chants. The ads were solicited by Mrs. May-
son Hatch Tucker, Mrs. Bouvier Beale, Mrs.
Norman J. Cherry, Mrs. Peggy Ann Kent,
Mrs. D. Culmore Lincoln, Mrs. W. Stanley
Moore, Mrs. Thomas Trent and Mrs. Lyle
White.

The outdoor runs at the Western West-
chester Shelter in Elmsford are now in excel-
lent condition as the result of an appeal
mailed to residents of the area. Westchester
members who prepared the mailing list were
Mrs. Albert C. Bickford, Mrs. Donald Bill-
stone, Mrs. August H. Haucke, Mrs. John L.
Jones, Mrs. Nelson W. Kimball, Mrs. W. W.
McDowell, Mrs. Blaise Recca, Mrs. Churchill
Rodgers, Mrs. David R. Rutter, Mrs. Stuart
R. Stevenson, Mrs. Ashley Thorndike and
Mrs. C. Marshall Wood.

20

 

 




Traveling abroad with your pet

More and more owners are taking pets
along when traveling abroad. Plane and
ocean liner accommodations for dogs and
cats are better than ever and many foreign
countries welcome well-behaved pets. But
check these facts carefully.

Entrance requirements vary in each coun-
try. Afghanistan, for instance, has no re-
strictions at all. Australia doesn’t allow any
animal in, and England will quarantine your
pet for six months.

Despite all sorts of public and Parliamen-
tary appeals recently, an American blind

student coming to study at Oxford in Eng-
land, had to quarantine his seeing-eye dog
for six months. The Ministry of Agriculture
refused to relax Britain’s rigid six-month
quarantine restrictions on animals brought
in from abroad. Even Queen Elizabeth never
takes her dogs out of the country.

On the other hand, France, which has an
embargo on importation of carniverous ani-
mals, recently modiﬁed its restrictions in
the case of traveling American pets. They
may now enter upon presentation of a health
certiﬁcate from a home town veterinarian.

Most countries require rabies vaccination
and health certiﬁcate, which should be at-
tached to the shipping crate. Although not
usually required, distemper and hepatitis
vaccinations are strongly recommended for
dogs and infectious enteritis vaccination for
cats.

As a guide, the ASPCA has compiled the
following list of requirements for dogs en-
tering 56 countries. Since the regulations are
subject to change, check with the country’s
nearest Consulate or the Embassy in Wash-

ington, D. C.

 

Afghanistan

No regulations or restrictions.

Argentina
No quarantine. Health certiﬁcate required
in duplicate and must be notarized.

Australia

No dog may enter Australia. It will be
destroyed upon arrival.

Austria

No quarantine. Health certiﬁcate required
in duplicate and must be in German.

Belgium
No quarantine. Certiﬁcate of health and
rabies vaccination signed by a licensed vet-

terinarian and written on stationery showing
veterinarian’s name and address.

Brazil

No quarantine. Certiﬁcate of health signed
by licensed veterinarian, certiﬁed by US.
Board of Animal Husbandry, then certiﬁed
by Brazilian Consulate.
Canada

No quarantines. Certiﬁcates of health and
rabies vaccination stating dog has been vac-
cinated at least within the past twelve months.
Must be signed by licensed veterinarian.

Cuba

No quarantine. Certificates of health and

rabies vaccination signed by licensed veter-
inarian and certiﬁed by Consulate.
Denmark

Quarantine period—six weeks. All in-
formation will be given upon application for
entry permit to Veterinaerdirektoratet, Ny-
ropsgade No. 37, Copenhagen, Denmark.
Dominican Republic

No quarantine. Health certiﬁcate required.
Must be notarized, taken to City Hall for
certiﬁcation, then certiﬁed by Consulate.
Ecuador

No quarantine. Health certiﬁcate, notar-
ized and certiﬁed by Ecuadorian Consulate.
Egypt

Quarantined only if the stay is to be over
three months. The quarantine period is one
to two weeks. Rabies and health certiﬁcates
required. If the stay is to be over three
months, certiﬁcates must be notarized, certi-
ﬁed by County Clerk and Egyptian Consulate.
El Salvador

No quarantine. Health certiﬁcate required.
Must be notarized and certiﬁed by Consulate.
Finland

Write to Ministry of Agriculture, Helsinki,
Finland. Letter must be accompanied by
health certiﬁcate, notarized and certiﬁed by
County Clerk and Finnish Consulate.

France

No quarantine. Rabies vaccination and
health certiﬁcates signed by licensed veterin-
arian and certiﬁed by Consulate.

Germany

No quarantine. Certiﬁcate of health and
statement by licensed veterinarian that dog
was vaccinated and the region the dog comes
from is free from rabies. Certiﬁcate in
duplicate and in German or an ofﬁcially
validated translation.

Great Britain

Quarantine period—six months. When dog
is landed it must be conveyed Without delay
by an approved Carrying Agent to approved
quarantine kennels for detention and isola—
tion for six calendar months from date of
landing. To obtain a license to land a dog
in Great Britain, complete Form lD-l and
send to Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries
and Food, Hook Rise, Tolworth, Surbiton,
Surrey, England. In Scotland, mail to De-
partment of Agriculture for Scotland, St.
Andrew’s House, Edinburgh 1.

Greece
No quarantine. Health and rabies certiﬁ-
cates signed by licensed veterinarian.

(Continued on page 10)

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

PRODUCTS AND SERVICES

 

CATNI P

' ' t dried
Comm, 2 packages of seeds, 4 plants or 1 pm
leaves $1.00. 1 lb. leaves etc. for toys, pads. $2.00 post-
paid. Garden fresh. BOHNS, Rt. 2, Napoleon, OhIo

DOG & CAT FOOD

CAL—COD

 

C R U M B I. I Z E D
D O G M E A I.
57l8—48th Street Maspeth 78, N. Y.

STillwell 6-2468

 

 

 

 

ALPO. CHUNKY. CADILLAC, BIG BET
Dog and Cat Foods
KITTY LITTER. KLEEN KITTY. etc.

ANDREW GOETZ'S SONS. INC.

1144 Flushing Avenue Brooklyn 37. N. Y.
HYacinth 7-5500

 

 

 

 

WAGNER BROS. FEED CORP.

Importers and Distributors

1160 MYRTLE AVE. BROOKLYN 21, N. Y.
GLenmore 5-2719

 

 

 

, . .
A Dog 3 We Can Be BeautIful . . . (A Cat’s Too)
I

WIth VlT-A-IITS .
Once-a-day multi vitamin, min- 939
eral and anti-biotic tablets
specifically designed for pets . . .
for a stronger, healthier, better look-
ing animal. Prolong lifespan, make
for lively, cheerful companions. Give
as extra tidbits, or mix with regular
food. _Contain vitamin 312, Niacin, Thiamin, Wheat Germ
OIl, Riboflavin and other health elements . . . certified
to meet same standards prescribed by government for
humans. Start pet on VlT-A-BITS and you will soon note
Sllkler coat, brighter e es, happier behavior!

A full 3 months suppy—QO VlT-A-BlTS—$2.98 ppd.

(2 Jars — $5.50 ppd.)
Send Check, Money Order. If C.O.D., fees extra.
MONEY BACK GUARANTEE!

SCOTT MITCHELL HOUSE, Inc. 415 ESPEIEallway

Yonkers, N. Y

   
     

\

 

THE WELL DRESSED DOGS SHOP AT

POODLETOWN

We carry a complete line of all dog accessories,
ready made and custom made
FREE CATALOG ON REQUEST
920 PARK AVE. NEW YORK 21. N. Y.
Tel. LEhigh 5-0450

 

 

 

26

 

DOG & CAT NOVELTlES

DOG

I4KT. SOLID GOLD

HIS NAME CHARM! BEAUTIFULLY
ENGRAVED . SET WITH SAPPHIRE
OR RUBY . ATTACHES TO COLLAR.
Check or Money Order, 10 Day Del.
” 3A” 12.50 inc. tax ’ CHARLES KEMPER

1” 14.00 inc. tax 71 West 47 Street
Chains Available New Yark 36, N Y

   
 

SEND
NAME

 

KENNELS

 

 

TEMPERAMENT! TYPE! TRAINABILITY!

CH. MAXIMIAN VON GROSSLAND
AND HIS SIRE AT STUD
CH. GUESTOR MAXIMIAM V GROSSLAND

U.D. .

0 BEAUTIFUL PUPPIES and ADULT founda-
tion stock available.
Temperament guaranteed.
GROSSLAND KENNELS, Reg.
James E. Grosselin
Ora geburg Road, Old Tappan, R.D. 1, Westwood, N. 1.

Tel. CLoster 5-1768

 

 

 

 

DOG TRAINING

 

 

CANINE COLLEGE

TRAINING —- TRlMMlNG — SUPPLIES

BOARDING
New York Office Conn. Office
449 E. 86th ST. WEST REDDING. CONN.
TRafalgar 6-2417 WEbster 8-2124

 

 

FENCE

 

 

INTER FENCE

ALUMINUM, BETHANIZED AND
GALVANIZED CHAIN WIRE FENCE

Kennels - Playground - School - Parking
Lots - Erected Anywhere At Reasonable
Price - Up to 5 Years to Pay

INTER-FENCE COMPANY
105-45—158th St., Jamaica, 1.. 1., Tel. Olympia 8-7176

 

 

 

 

 

 
     
  

 

For Children PORTAB
WIRE ENC 1.0

. Only 1 minute to set
‘ ; up or take down.
m ‘ '~' Available in 4, 6 and

. 4
M'.‘
ulllrﬁh‘r

   
  
         
   

  
 

      
            

:I‘ til-5. .. .
v.'-lI' I'l6‘~---.-"'nl"
"‘i£l"mll"'"”"" ll

,'\ o . I
a: ' _I ""flllmlﬂl'lmul .34. 8 panels. Height. 2/2
RIIIIEIAIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIER n. 3 n. or 31/2 n.

 

I
'"llllll III'""

       

   

llllllllllll'" Write tor circular AP

 

FRANK E. NASH‘EENCE co. Mt. Vernon N.Y.

PET SUPPLIES

 

 

KEEP YOUR PETS
FREE OF FLEAS
TlCKS. MlTES. ETC. SPRAY THEM WITH
M l T - E - K I L
HlNTON & CO.. INC.
67 MURRAY ST.. NEW YORK CITY

 

 

KS,

 




A race horse stretches its legs in the
Animalport’s paddock after a long plane
trip. Almost 23,000 animal air travelers
from all over the world made the Animalport
their “home away from home.”

 

In the 16 months since the opening of our Animalport at New York Inter- Animalport
national Airport we played host to 22,969 animals representing 74 species.

The guests, shipped from all over the world, have included everything from cares

lizards to tigers—even polar bears. for 22,969
It’s a good thing that George Bauer, the Resident Manager at our stop-over

for animal air-travelers, likes a challenge, for each type of animal presents one.

There was the morning, for instance, when a representative from Seaboard

and Western Airlines called Mr. Bauer and complained of a headache. He

knew the cause. Could we supply the cure? The “cause” turned out to be

four sea lions en route from Southern California to the Tiergarten in Ham-

burg, Germany. Their trip had been unexpectedly interrupted due to some

sort of mix-up in shipping orders.

“Bring ’em over. We’ll take care of them,” answered Mr. Bauer with an air

of greater bravado than know-how. Then he sat down and posed a question

to himself: “Suppose I was a sea lion. How would I exist and What would
I eat if I found myself on dry land?”

 

By the time the odd problem creatures arrived, so had the answer. A hose ‘
had been coiled around a water pipe near the ceiling with a shower-spray :I
nozzle attached to the end. The sea lions” crates, surrounded by cakes of ice,
were then placed near a drain in the ﬂoor underneath the shower. There was .
nothing left but turn on the water and watch the sea lions enjoy their tem- ‘
3 porary quarters and their ﬁrst ASPCA meal — ﬁsh, of course. For eight days
they called the Animalport “home,” and we hope they are as comfortable
in Germany as we were able to make them.

 

 

It is my recollection that at this meeting last year I reported that the Society Amundsen
3 had sent its then Assistant General Manager, Arthur L. Amundsen, to England _
j; to study the operations of the Royal SPCA’s Animal Hostel at London Airport. ap P omted
: Many of the ideas he brought back have become extremely useful at the
Animalport, as his ideas in general are throughout the Society. It is, therefore,
my pleasure to announce that a new post has been created in the organization
for Mr. Amundsen. He has recently been appointed Director of Operations.

We never talk much about publicity because it is only one function of our
Public Relations Department, but the record this year is exceptional, I think

31

 

 

 




 

 

 

Awards for
outstanding
bravery

Bouquets
to the staff

36

Last year 17* hospitals requisitioned 2,496 animals from the ASPCA—
2,038 dogs and 458 cats.

An ASPCA Special Agent has inspected all these hospitals over and over
again during the year. These inspections were not pre-arranged.

ASPCA’s Medal of Honor and Certiﬁcate of Merit are awards which bring
esteem to the Society wherever and whenever they are presented. They are not
given out freely, but are reserved for meritorious acts of bravery on the part
of animals, or human beings who have rescued animals. Their presentation is
by no means conﬁned to New York City. During the year they have gone to
Michigan, Rhode Island, Missouri—and as far away as Sidi Bel Abbes,
Algeria, where our Medal and Certiﬁcate have been placed in the Salle
d’Honneur of the French Foreign Legion’s Headquarters and Training Station.

The last-named honor was reported in Life, Newsweek and several French
newspapers. The story, originally reported in Life magazine, was most
appealing. Soldiers of the 13th Demi Brigade, while on maneuvers, discovered
an abandoned and starving donkey, lying- in a ﬁeld. Too weak to stand, the
animal was packed onto the back of a legionnaire and carried to the post.
Since the incident, the donkey has become famous as the Brigade’s mascot.

While we’re giving out medals I’d like to pin one—at least verbally—on
every member of ASPCA’s hard-working and dedicated staff. I think we have
reason to be proud of the men and women who work for us when we receive
letters, like the two I wish to read, from people who have experienced and
appreciated their help and courtesies:

“A t 5:45 on December I 7 my son called me at work. He told about a hit-and-
run driver and an injured dog lying in the street and asked if he could call

the ASPCA.

I wondered whether you would pay attention to a child, until at 6:30 p.m.
my boy called me back to say you had picked up the dog.

Thank you for the kindness shown to a young boy with a heavy heart and to
the little stray dog in pain.”

“A courteous and capable driver came to pick up my pup at 11:30 p.m. In
these days when the snarling bus driver, the indifferent store clerk and the
grasping cab driver have become the accepted thing, it was refreshing and
gratifying to meet your representative who did his job willing, competently
and pleasantly.”

Since it would be impossible for me to improve on the sentiments expressed
in this last letter, I will close by thanking members and contributors of the
ASPCA for their loyal support during the past year.

 

*HOSPITALS DOGS CATS HOSPITALS DOGS CATS
Albert Einstein College of Medicine. . . 30 106 Queens General Hospital ........... 153 —
Bronx Hospital ................... 46 — St. Vincent’s Hospital .............. 414 —-
Columbia University, College of Sloan Kettering Institute

Physicians & Surgeons ............ — 8 for Cancer Research .............. 104 -——
Cornell University Medical College. . . . 464 324 State University of New York ......... 35 7
Jewish Chronic Disease Hospital ...... 154 — U. S. Naval Hospital ............... 105 1
Maimonides Hospital ............... 148 —— U. S. Public Health Service Hospital. . 13 —
Misericordia Hospital .............. —— 3 UHitY Hospital -------------------- 9 —'
Monteﬁore Hospital ............... 262 7 Veterans Administration Hospital ..... 99 2
New York Eye & Ear Inﬁrmary ........ 2 — Total ........................ M R

 

 




 

Bequests

Edwin D. Babbitt
Fredericka Badt

Dora L. Barton

Mary A. Beatty

Amelia J. Birkmeyer
Robert H. Blackall
Clement L. Despard
Ethel DuBois

Bessie M. Failing
Louise M. Jones Faulke
Marianne Gaillard Faulkner
Mary A. Fiebig

Marion T. S. Figge
Mamie F. Floyd

Lola Rose Herk

Vera Holub

Marie Lowenstein
Kathryn McCarthy
Mary L. Mackenzie

Louis Moos

Georgiana Mowry
Laura W. Murchie
Nellie Murphy
Maude Norris
Lillian Pierre

Katherine S. Pryor
Hazel Redfern
Lady Ava Ribblesdale

Lillian Rowe

Elsie F. Schlemmer
Bella M. Stebbins
Henry Remsen Tibbits
Walter Weineck

Marie Louise Wickersheimer

Endowments

Nancy S. Day

Henry G. Fisher Fund
Elsie Z. Graham
Angeline R. Schad Fund

Estella Sternglanz

Please "remember the ASPCA “in. your Will

25 year members

Mrs. Richard Aldrich
Mrs. William Truslow Hyde

50 year members

Mrs. Helen H. Burden
Mrs. Ethel R. Cornell
Mrs. George S. Burnam
Miss Elizabeth Willstump
Miss Clara M. Smith
Mrs. Henry P. Cole

Mrs. Mabel E. Sahl
Mrs. Morton Tilton

Mrs. Louise M. Clarke

M 5. Helen Spitz

,1

I give‘and bequeath to The American" Society for cthePrevention of Cruelty to Animals, 3

New York charitable corporation having its principal ofﬁce at 441 East 92nd Street,

New York, N. Y., the Sum of ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- » ----- D0113“-

 




 

 

 

 

A PENNY SAVED . . .

Fall is the season when ordi-
narily we direct an extra little
nudge to those who haven’t con-
tributed during the previous year.

The response to this appeal for
our Hospital is good because most
people only need to be reminded.
But, as the cost of literature and
mailing increases, the amount left
over for actual help to animals
decreases.

We’d like to see every contribu-
tion go directly toward taking
care of the 40% of our hospital
cases which are all or part charity.
Wouldn’t you? Let this notice
then act as a reminder if you
haven’t paid your dues or lent
your support in the past year.

 

 

ASPCA joins clean-up drive

Keep New York City clean! That’s the
motto of a concerted drive by City depart-
ments, citizens groups and residents.

The ASPCA has offered full cooperation.
Frank Melvin, Manhattan District Manager,
is a member of a committee which meets
regularly to map out a program for cleaning
up some of the areas which have come under
heavy criticism in the past. Other members
of the committee represent the Citizens
Committee to Keep New York Clean, the
Y.M.C.A., and New York City Departments
of Health, Smoke Control, Fire, Building,

Sanitation, Police and Air Pollution.

Excellent results have been reported so
far in Harlem, target of the current drive.
An education program, through the use of
sound trucks and distribution of literature,
is under way urging residents to curb their
dogs and keep them on leash.

Ambulances from the Shelter pick up loose
dogs put out by people who have moved and
the animals are placed in new homes.

 

IF R E E Wot/ting to hug

REDEEM THI'S COUPON AT'YOUR GROCER’S

Good for ONE m CAN
' aunt-100% [IVER DOG man

When Presented at your Food Store

Mr. Dealer, We will redeem this coupon at your regular shelf price plus
2c handling provided terms. of the offer have been complied with. This
offer void if prohibited, taxed or restricted. Customer must pay any
sales tax. Cash value l/20 of 1 cent. For prompt redemption, mail to:
B. A. Bernard & Co., Inc., 4539 Lancaster Ave., Phila. 31, Pa. ‘

FRALlD CLAUSE: Any other application of this coupon constitutes fraud.
lnvo:ces provmg purchase of sufficient stocks to cover coupons pre-
sented for redemption must be shown upon request. Expires June, 1960.

 

FREE

ONE CAN

   
 

 

 

 

16

 




   
 

 

 

in the
Bronx

An alarmed Bronx woman telephoned

 

 
     

  

 

police recently to report a wild, disorderly

animal. A patrolman rushed oﬁc to investi-

gate. He parted the bushes, spotted a furry

shape on the porch and immediately clapped

a huge bucket over it and Weighted it down

with rocks. J
Reinforcements were called in. ASPCA’S

Edward Kroll arrived with stick and noose, %

along with the police emergency squad.

Working carefully, the team removed the

     
 
   
 
      
 
 
  

     

   

".° Stalking the beast, police and ASPCA’s .
-’ Edward Kroll approach carefully. bucket, and at last—the blg capture.

        
 

The Vicious, disorderly beast turned out
to be a Davy Crockett hat.

 
   
   
  

Daily Mirror photos

With stick and noose ready, they whisk '7 . . . a harmless Davy Crockett hat.
" aside the bucket to find . . .

21

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

How I care
for my pony

Danny Jones didn’t win the ASPCA Henry
Bergh Trophy for horsemanship this year,
but he made a good try. The 11-year-old
horseman from Trenton, N.J., came in fourth
behind Nina Ervesun, Judy Richard and
Sandy Gartner. How he jumped from sev-
enth place to fourth place, though, is what
makes this story.

The Bergh Trophy goes each year to the
child who accumulates the most points in
the Bergh event at horse shows during the
year. An extra ﬁve points is given to any
entrant who can prove to the Society’s satis-
faction that he cares for his own horse.

According to Danny’s mother, when he
found out he was seventh, he was naturally
interested in earning as many more points as
possible. In his spare time at school he wrote
a paper on how he cared for his pony. He
meant to recopy it before mailing, but fell
sick.

After getting up early to help his father
with the barn work (they have 14 head of
horses and ponies and two head of cattle,
with no hired help), he worked until dark.
On the next day the doctor said he wasn’t
well enough to correct and recopy his paper.
So his mother submitted his rough draft

without his knowledge. We reprint Danny’s
paper just as he wrote it, without any cor-
rections in spelling.

How I Care for My Pony

I am gone to begin my essea on his stall.
His Stall
My pony’s stall is about 10' by 14'. It has
a window for air circulation. It has heavy
oak boards so it will not splinter & hurt him.
The floor is slanted so it will drain.

Feed

I feed my pony accord to work. I feed him
mixed feed ( my father’s mixture Corn &:
sometimes oats bran.

Cleaning
It makes him soft & shiny. With a curry-

comb & brush I clean him around & around
goes the currycomb till all the dirt is loose,
then I brush him good & hard. Then I pick
out his feet with a hoofpick &: oil them.
Then I comb his mane & tail.

Cleaning the Stall

The Stall should never be dirty for it may
cause tresh. It should allways have clean
straw in it & should be limed to kill the odor.

Danny, whose sister Georgianne won the
Bergh trophy in 1955, got his ﬁve points,
despite his spelling, and ended up in fourth
place. We’re sure we’ll hear from him again
next year.

Mrs. Richard A. Johnson (second from right)
presents the Henry Bergh Trophy for horseman-
ship, which she donated, to winner Nina Ervesun.
Looking on are reserve Judy Richard (left) and
third place winner, Sandy Gartner (right).

 

 

    

 
  
   
    
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  




Foreign
visitors

32

— especially for an organization which isn’t nation-wide in scope, and I
think it deserves mentioning. For every day of the 365 days in our ﬁscal year
we have had one picture in a newpaper or magazine and one column of copy.

The publicity in the foreign press concerning the Animalport has increased
mail received from foreign countries asking our help and advice. Puerto Rico,
Brazil, Poland, the Virgin Islands, Japan, Africa and India are but a few of
the postmarks on mail which we have received in recent months asking for
our guidance. Such publicity encourages visits to our shelters from humane
leaders of other countries.

Just recently, within the same week, we had the pleasure of taking the heads
of the humane movements in Spain and Western Germany on a tour of our
Hospital, the Manhattan Shelter and the Animalport. Both these men were
overcome by the extent of our facilities and the nature and completeness of
our hospital equipment. While each had a number of societies under his
direction, not one of them had either a clinic or a hospital.

Few people in their countries, they said, were interested in giving to animal
work. That Americans cared so deeply about animals and were willing to
contribute so many of the instruments in our Hospital was a revelation.

The classroom, and ASPCA’s entire program for children, was of particular
interest to the visitors. Where could they rent the humane education ﬁlms we
show to the young people? Could they buy our literature and have it trans-
lated? How interested were school classes and Scout troops in adopting the
parakeets we raise for this purpose? How did the youngsters respond to our
live exhibits of birds, small animals and ﬁsh?

The Spaniard, Count Sert, told us that he had 17 children in his Society
whom he was trying to inculcate with a knowledge of and fondness for animals.
A small beginning, he acknowledged, but he believed the only sound way to
eventually eliminate bullﬁghting and its cruelties.

Here was a man beginning in his country where Henry Bergh began in the
United States almost a hundred years ago. The experience of meeting him
made us realize how far humane education has progressed in this country.
How fortunate we are to have the support of private donors and of commer-
cial ﬁrms willing to pour money into educational projects for the young.

The Ralston Purina Company, for instance, has just prepared a Teacher’s
Manual, a ﬁlmstrip in color and a kit of materials, for classroom instruction
in the care of animals. Included are certiﬁcates and badges, as rewards for
children who measure up to the requirements set forth.

We are happy to announce that Diana Henley, who directs the Society’s
education program, was a member of the committee which prepared the
Ralston program and, as a matter of fact, did most of the writing for the
manual.

Outside the classroom our Education Department assists in planning and
conducting pet shows and obedience training classes. It also holds an annual
Junior Jamboree in Central Park each June for our Junior Members. Last year
a record 1,685 children, with their parents and teachers, turned out.

 

 

 

 




 

 

ASPCA committees

Executive

William Rockefeller, Chairman
Hugh E. Paine

William A. Meyerholl

John D. Beals, Jr.

William Fellowes Morgan
Louis Reynal

Richard C. Kettles

José A. Machado, Jr.

James H. Jenkins

Finance

William A. Meyer-boll, Chairman
Hugh E. Paine

James H. Jenkins

John D. Beals, Jr.

William Rockefeller

Visiting

Alastair B. Martin, Chairman
Horace H. Nahm

George B. Wagstaff

J osé A. Machado, Jr.

A. Wells Peck

Hospital

Hugh E. Paine, Chairman
Richard C. Kettles

Louis Reynal

John W. Ream

Special agents

 

Real Estate, Building Nominating

and Maintenance

James H. Ripley, Chairman

William A. Meyerhof’f
John D. Beals, Jr.
John W. Ream

Retirement Plan

José A. Machado, Jr.,

Hugh E. Paine
William A. Meyerhofl
R. W. Allen

Education

William Fellowes Morgan, Chairman

William E. Buckley
A. Wells Peck

Humane Slaughter

For the Board

James H. Jenkins, Chairman
John W. Cross, Jr.
John W. Ream

For the Society

Chairman Mrs. William W. Hoppin
Miss Anna R. Alexandre
Mrs. J. C. Traphagen

For Ofﬁcers

Wm. Ross Proctor, Chairman
Alastair B. Martin

Joseph B. Murray

John D. Beals, Jr.

William Fellowes Morgan

James H. Jenkins, Chairman

Alastair B. Martin

William Fellowes Morgan

Horse Show
For the Board

Annual Meeting

Louis Reynal, Chairman
Richard C. Kettles
Horace H. Nahm

Joseph B. Murray, Chairman

Alastair B. Martin
Richard C. Kettles

For the Society

Staff

Louis Reynal, Board Representative

R. W. Allen
Arthur L. Amundsen

Mrs. Marion T. Shotter June Eliot

Mrs. George Hayman
Gordon Wright

Thomas A. Fegan
John E. Whitehead, V.M.D.

The following special agents investigate cases of cruelty throughout New York City:

William Ryan
Walter A. Hillsinger
John F. Joule
Raymond J. Mulligan
Alfred J. D’Alessio

Vincent J. Patterson
John Stitzel

Robert P. Hammatt
Joseph C. Schlesinger

Victor E. Ballufl
Carl C. Stohr

Thomas L. Regan
George F. Bauer

The Society is also represented throughout the State of New York by these special agents:

Charles Pearson, Jr., Buffalo, Erie
Adolph Schaefer, Catskill, Greene
James H. Cruikshank, F reeport, Nassau
Ernest J. Reynolds, Niagara Falls, Niagara
Edward Schermerhorn, Phelps, Ontario
Lloyd L. Weir, Geneva, Ontario

Michael J. Donohue, N ewburgh, Orange
Edward B. Butler, Warwick, Orange

Frank G. Howarth, St. George, Richmond
Monroe D. Ray, Montour Falls, Schuyler

Ray Winne, Kingston, Ulster

Charles M. Barber, Port Chester, Westchester

37

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

s]

10
ll

12
13
14

16
17
18
19
20
21

22
23

ASPCA services

Adoption service program

Hospital and clinic for sick and injured
animals

Isolation ward for animals suffering from
communicable diseases

Ambulance service for small animals

Pick up and care of lost, unwanted, stray
and abandoned animals

Acceptance at shelters of unwanted animals
for adoption or sick animals for humane
destruction

Care of animals whose owners are in in-
stitutions

Emergency rescue service for animals in
distress

Care of wild life that stray into the city
from outlying areas

Investigation of cruelty complaints

Regular inspections of pet shops, poultry mar-
kets, bridle paths, stables, slaughter houses,
stockyards and other places where animals
are kept in numbers

Inspections of horse shows, circuses, rodeos
Licensing of dogs in New York City
Return of lost, licensed dogs to their owners

Accommodations for Department of Health
veterinarians to examine and quarantine ani-
mals involved in bite cases

Special horse care and ambulance service
Mobile horse watering units in New York City
Educational program for children

Dog obedience training courses

Literature on animal care

Animalport at New York International Air-
port to care for animals between ﬂights

Campaigns for animal welfare legislation

Information service to answer questions per-
taining to animals

You can help support these services by
sending your contribution in the en-
closed envelope. You may indicate on
the envelope the services to which you
wish the gift applied.

 

 

 

 




