 

 

 

 

 

TEN YEAR GROWTH IN ANIMAL ADOPTIONS

21,000
20,000
19,000
18,000
17,000
16,000
15,000
14,000
13,000
12,000
11,000
10,000

9,000

8,000

7,000

To encourage adoptions we have installed new adoption wards in our
shelters which show the animals to better advantage than small individual
cages. From behind plate glass windows the public can watch them frisking
and playing in community cages equipped with trees, shelves, tunnels and toys.

Radio, television, newspaper and word-of-mouth publicity have spread
the word that animals may be adopted free of charge from any of our eight
shelters. There is only the license fee for a dog to be kept in New York City.

CONTRIBUTIONS WELCOME

HOW

There’s no charge because the adoption service is one of several ASPCA
activities paid for by contributions. We are always grateful to anyone giving
a home tO one of our orphans who makes a contribution toward the care of
others still unchosen. Otherwise, we could not afford the extra effort we make
to ﬁnd the right home for the right animal.

TO ADOPT AN ANIMAL

Animals for adoption are available at ASPCA shelters in the ﬁve bor-
oughs, plus the two in Nassau County and one in Weschester. Adoption wards
are open from 9 a.m. to 4 pm. daily, except Sundays and holidays.

There are always many animals to choose from. But since our population
is constantly changing, you may not ﬁnd just the right’ animal on your ﬁrst
visit. If not, come back as Often as you like, or try one of the other shelters.

When you’ve made your selection, we’ll ask you a few questions, such as:

' Does the whole family Want the pet? A house divided does not make
a satisfactory adoption.

' Is your house large enough? A two-room apartment with a large
family leaves no room for a big dog.

' Are you healthy enough and do you have the time to give a dog
enough exercise?

' Will the pet have companionship, or will
it be left alone to howl or meow all day?

If we both agree that the adoption is suit-

 

 

able, you will be asked to sign a form which

 

 

stipulates, among other things, that if for

 

 

 

some reason you can’t keep the pet, you will

 

 

return it to us.

 

 

 

 

SPECIAL ADOPTION S

 

 

 

You may be looking for a certain breed of

 

dog and won’t accept any other, no matter

 

6,000 .,_.._.;, . a

5,000
4,000
3,000
2,000

1,000 .
0
’51 ’52 ’53 ’54 ’55 ’56 ’57 ’58 ’59 ’60

I DOGS

 

how appealing. If you don’t ﬁnd your ideal,
you may leave your name, along with the age,
sex and breed of the animal you have in mind.
We’ll notify you if and when such an animal
comes in. It could be a long wait, so be patient.

 

 

 

   

 

I CATS OTHERS

in“.




 

 

tions against contagious diseases, regardless of previous. vaccinations,
unless the examining veterinarian recommends otherwise.

0 Each hospitalized animal has a temperature-controlled individual
cage, sterilized after each patient.

0 Fresh water in individual containers is changed three times a day.

0 Animals are fed a well-balanced basic ration, with speciﬁc diets when
prescribed by the doctor.

0 Dogs are exercised when possible in outdoor runs on the roof at least
twice a day —— morning and afternoon.

0 Each of the nine veterinarians makes his w-ard rounds for 45 minutes
every day.

’ A record card is posted on the kennel identifying the animal, the
nature of the ailment and the treatment prescribed.

O Sanitary and aseptic conditions are controlled to the best of human
ability. Examining and operating tables are sterilized after each
patient. Kennels and outdoor runs are disinfected daily. As in human
hospitals, surgeons “scrub up” with antiseptics before an operation
and wear face masks and gloves.

FOR OWNER’S INFORMATION

We realize owners are anxious when their pets are hospitalized. To make
it easier to ﬁnd out a pet’s progress, we set aside two hours a day, between
2 pm. and 4 p.m., when an owner can call and inquire about the patient.
Each veterinarian has a telephone hour daily when owners can talk directly
with him. Staff members are not permitted to prescribe over the telephone.

We can seldom schedule the exact hour of an operation because accident
cases, recent fractures and other emergencies have priority.

DAYNEMOUTH WARD

Animals suffering from contagious diseases such as canine hepatitis,
canine distemper and feline enteritis, are isolated in a ward where special
sterile conditions are maintained. Separated from the rest of the hospital, the
Daynemouth Ward was made possible by a donor whose particular interest is
the control and cure of communicable diseases.

Because cases treated in this area are highly contagious, preventing the
spread of disease is of utmost importance. Therefore, owners are not permitted

3?

 

 

 

15

 

 




 

 

HOSPITAL SERVICES

Animals examined and treated

 

Dogs ................................................................................
Cats .................................................................................
Others ...............................................................................
Total ...........................................................................
Days of Hospitalization ................................................................
HUMANE WORK No. of
Inspection Services Inspections
Animal stores and pet shops ............................................. 3,473
Poultry markets ........................................................ 1,525
Private stables— to prevent abuse of horses ............................... 3,812
Public markets—to prevent abuse of horses .............................. 204i
Slaughter houses ........................................................ 714
Stock yards ............................................................ 1,048
Laboratories ........................................................... 74
Circuses ............................................................... 166
Rodeos .............................................................. .- . 57
Horse shows ........................ , ................................... 51
Total ..................................................... ‘ ......... 11,124
Special Horse Services
Harnesses adjusted ...................................................................
Horses suspended from labor ...........................................................
Horses moved in ambulances. ..........................................................
Water wagons ........................................................................
Weekly inspections of horses for ﬁtness to work ..........................................
Legal Relations
Complaints of alleged cruelty received .................................................
Cruelty cases investigated, corrected without court action .................................
Arrests made by Society ...............................................................
Convictions secured ..................................................................
Dismissal of complaints ...............................................................
Fines imposed by court5 .......................................................... . . . . .

 

25,243
5,351

1,953

32,547
42,362

N o. of
animals
involved

156,285
762,500

79,432

786,000
786,000
234,209
298

621
4,845

2,810,190

601
191
10

2
79,432

5,189
5,454
73

56

17
$449.00

 

1. Among these animals were alligators, beavers, chinchillas, ferrets, foxes, hamsters, iguana, monkeys, and
ocelots; also birds including an albatross, bittern, hawk, blue jays, canaries, cranes, java temple birds,

macaw, mynahs, parakeets, parrots, robins and vireo.

. Includes 101,777 animals humanely destroyed at the request of their owners.
. Fines belong to City under statutes passed at the request of the Society.

01wa

. Includes animals abandoned in streets and animals rescued from trees, poles, behind walls, etc.
. Includes animals abandoned in buildings, received from police and animals whose owners are in institutions.

43

 




ﬁes eef    
.pITOtBiII

in one can of Red Heart
than any dry dog food
' .. . most canned dog foods

Red Heart comes in three
tasty varieties: Beef, Beef-
plus-Fish, Beef-plus-liver!

@1959. Red Heart Div.. John Morrell 6. Co.

 




 

Twenty-four of our 34 presidents have
_ gone into the White House with a pup
at their side. A beautiful sad-eyed weimar-
aner named Heidi is the most recent regular
visitor with her master President Dwight D.
Eisenhower.

The canine candidates who will vie for this
honor in the coming election are Vice-Pres-
ident Richard M. Nixon’s cocker spaniel
Checkers and Senator John F. Kennedy’s

wire-haired terrier Charlie.

Research on the subject indicates that the
odds seem to favor hunting dogs. C. C. “Tex”
Fawcett of the Purina Dog Care Center, St.
Louis, points out that the most likely can-
didates for the house on Connecticut Avenue
are setters, spaniels and hounds since they
have gone to the White House more often
than lap and toy dogs.

George Washington was the ﬁrst Presiden-
tial dog fancier, in addition to his other
ﬁrsts. The General was a leading breeder of
foxhounds in his native state of Virginia,
according to the Gaines Dog Research Cen-
ter. He imported some of the best English
foxhounds to breed and upgrade his own
stock. His dogs had such imaginative names
as Sweetlips, Tipler, Taster and Mopsey.

Once, during the Revolutionary War, the
English general, Howe, lost his little dog. The
dog strayed over into the American lines
Where it was fed and petted by Washington’s
soldiers. Recognizing the dog as Howe’s,
General Washington ordered the dog re-
turned to the Englishman under a ﬂag of
truce. Howe later sent a note of thanks.

In the long history of our Presidents’
affection for dogs, the dog most closely
associated with his master was Fala, and the
president was Franklin D. Roosevelt.

The many activities of Fala, a Scottish
terrier, made front page news for several
years. He was rarely separated from the
President and often tried to “crash” formal
affairs, including inaugurations. Otherwise
Fala was an unusually well behaved dog.
But like ordinary dogs, he, too, liked an
occasional ﬂight and caused consternation

among White House guards by running away.

Theodore Roosevelt would no doubt win
honors as the greatest all-around pet lover
ever to be president. In addition to a pack
of dogs, he had everything from kangaroos
to lizards around him almost constantly. His
favorite dog was Skip, a canine of somewhat
doubtful antecedents.

Abraham Lincoln loved dogs so well that
he risked his life to save a dog marooned
by a raging mountain flood. On another
occasion he found an injured dog in the
woods and nursed it back to health. His love
for dogs was immortalized in the statue of
him as “The Hoosier Youth” by Paul Man-
ship in Fort Wayne, Indiana.

Calvin Coolidge’s Sheepdog Rob Roy and
his collie Prudence Prim, were nearly as
famous as Fala. They were known as a
couple of off-beat characters in dog society
along the Potomac. Occasionally at lunch or
dinner the President would ﬁll a saucer with
coffee. It was a tense moment for new
guests as they considered following their
host’s motions—until he passed the saucer
to Rob, who had a passion for coffee. Pru-
dence Prim was as discreet and neat as the
name implies. She was so well behaved that
the President and Mrs. Coolidge often let
Prudence attend garden parties Where she
graciously mingled with the guests.

Another of President Coolidge’s dogs, a
wire haired terrier, called Peter Pan, worked
his way from the White House to the dog-
house by trying to replace the Secret Service.
Pete’s over-developed sense of protectiveness
caused him to nip the heels of White House
visitors from ambassadors to Secret Service
agents and as a result he was exiled to a
friend’s farm in the country.

In contrast, Herbert Hoover’s German
shepherd, Pat, probably saw more of the
White House than any other Presidential
dog. Pat used to wander about the place at
his pleasure and when President Hoover got
a Norwegian elkhound named Weejie, Pat
used to give his pal tours throughout the house
from the President’s office to the scullery.

 




to manufacturers and inventors who began to develop other means for
humanely killing animals for food.

Some of these methods are:

0 The Thor Stunner, an air-powered tool which knocks cattle and sheep
unconscious instantly, prior to slaughter, with a single light tap on
the back of the head.

0 The captive bolt pistol, which emits a bolt that penetrates the animal’s
brain producing unconsciousness instantly.

0 The Remington Humane Stunner, which shocks cattle unconscious
instantly and painlessly with a mushroom-shaped bolt that does not
penetrate the skull.

0 An electric knife used for poultry. The instrument acts as a stunner
when tapped on the fowl’s head, then as a slaughtering instrument
when inserted into the throat.

A number of manufacturers of these instruments and the packing com-
panies which experimented with and converted to the use of these humane
devices were also presented with our Hopkins Award.

Some of the beneﬁts gained by the packers who adopted humane slaughter
methods are:

0 Lower operating costs following expense of initial conversion.

0 Facility of operation.

0 Comparative safety for the worker, leading to higher employee morale

in a job with one of the highest accident rates of any industry.

0 Reduction of wasteful bruises in animals, estimated to have previously

cost the packing industry $50 million yearly.

0 Faster production.

A FEDERAL LAW

By 1955 a sufﬁcient number of humane slaughter methods was available
so that legislation could no longer be fought off with the argument that it
. could not be enforced for lack of means.

At this point the humane movement rallied forces to enlist legislation
to introduce bills before the United States Congress. The American Humane
Association, a coordinating group representing over 500 animal welfare
organizations in the United States, led the way in having such legislation
introduced.

An active member of the American Humane Association, the ASPCA
distributed a series of pamphlets urging individuals to let Congress know that
the American public wanted a humane slaughter law. We sent out nationwide
publicity releases, which resulted in a number of favorable editorials. Our
representatives went to Washington to testify at hearings before the Senate
i i Agriculture Committee.

Three years after the ﬁrst bill was introduced, Congress passed a humane
slaughter law, and on August 27, 1958, President Dwight D. Eisenhower
signed it. This law made it mandatory for all meat purchased by the United
States Goverment to be humanely slaughtered after July 1, 1960.

While this federal legislation affects between 80 and 90 percent of the
meat purchased in the country, almost 2,800 packers do not sell to the United

 

 

 

36

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
  

different types of fauna from skunks, polar bears, foxes, leopards, chinchillas
and monkeys, to anteaters, lions, tigers, elephants, cattle, sheep and lizards.

Most of the exotic animals are imported from Asia, Africa and Europe
by zoos and dealers. Many animals are exported by cattle breeders to needy
peoples abroad. Race horses traveling between tracks in the U. S. and Europe
are frequent stop-over guests.

Ninety percent of the dogs belong to CPS in Europe. When they get
transferred to the U. S. they send their pets home by air express. Sometimes
they arrive days after their pets and the dogs have to wait.

FACILITIES '

Dogs, cats and other small animals are housedin individual kennels with
adjoining outdoor runs. There are 14 individual horse stalls which can be
converted into a large indoor corral for farm animals. Horses are exercised in
a spacious outdoor paddock.

There is a temperature-controlled section for tropical birds and animals,
isolation cages for the sick and injured, a fully-equipped veterinary clinic,
indoor and outdoor loading areas and a dietary kitchen with a freezer and
electric stove. Diets prepared in this kitchen range from live meal worms for
foxes to bamboo roots for pandas, raw meat for lions and alfalfa for elephants.
We procure health certiﬁcates and supply traveling crates.

Rates vary according to the size and type of animal. There is no idea of
making a proﬁt—simply breaking even, which we hope to do when the
facility becomes better known.

This pioneer accommodation is likely to become a model for other similar
shelters throughout the country. At least two other humane societies in cities
with heavy animal air trafﬁc expect to pattern shelters after our Animalport.

For further information about the Animalport, call OLympia 6-6042, or
write The ASPCA Animalport, Air Cargo Center, New York International
Airport, Jamaica 30, N. Y.

HUMANE EDUCATION

ecause we believe that teaching children kindness to animals can

have far-reaching effects, we place great emphasis on our educa-

tion program. Children who, have developed an understanding of animals
grow into more responsible, compassionate adults.

29

 

 




 

 

 

O

MENT
CAI

TH

otect

CIAL’ SUPP

r

nlb.
EBA
PH

 




 

 

 

Bronx Shelter
Manhattan Shelter,
chmond Shelter

Hospi

tal and Mai

n. 0m

3 A.
an

 

C «a 5» Sex
,A wwwMM/pwﬁﬁ A

Queens Shelter

J). .. .. \. ...l..u u

Glen Cove Shelter
Western Westch

est”

Long Beach Shelter

 

er

3‘s".

_ r
S elter

J
t

1.17:.5
l... , .

3

ﬂ
Animalport at N. Y. International Airport

 




 

THE AMERICAN
SOCIETY FOR THE
PREVENTION OF
CRUELTY TO ANIMALS

FOUNDED AND INCORPORATED 1866

 

Ofﬁcers

William Rockefeller, President
James H. Ripley, Vice-President
Richard C. Kettles, Vice-President
Horace H. Nahm, Vice-President
James H. Jenkins, Treasurer

John W. Ream, Secretary

Board of Managers

Wm. Joshua Barney, Jr.
John D. Beals, Jr.
William E. Buckley
Ernest B. Burton
John W. Cross, Jr.
José A. Machado, Jr.
Alastair B. Martin
William A. Meyerhofl
William F. Morgan
Joseph B. Murray
Hugh E. Paine

A. Wells Peck

W. Ross Proctor
George B. Wagstali

Managers Emeritus

F. Ambrose Clark
Robert L. Jones
Henry J. Fisher
Samuel R. Milbank

*

**

9%

Division Directors

R. W. Allen, Comptroller
Thomas A. Fegan, Assistant Comptroller

Arthur L. Amundsen, Director of Operations

June Eliot, Director of Public Relations, Fund Raising
and Humane Education

John E. Whitehead, V.M.D., Director of Hospital and Clinic

Administration Ofﬁces TRafalgar 6'7700
441 East 92nd St., New York 28, N. Y. (York Ave.)
R. W. Allen, Comptroller
Arthur L. Amundsen, Director of Operations
George H. Tuscher, Supervisor of Humane Work

Hospital and Clinic TRafalgar 6-7700

441 East 92nd St., New York 28, N. Y.

John E. Whitehead, V.M.D., Director

Public Relations and PLaza 5-1650
Fund Raising Department

30 East 60th St., New York 22, N. Y.
June Eliot, Director

Volunteer Activities
Maude Hayman, Director

Humane Education Department TRafalgar 6-7700
441 East 92nd St., New York 28, N. Y.

Diana Henley, Supervisor

Animalport OLympia 6'6042
Air Cargo Center, New York International
Airport, Jamaica 30, N. Y.

George F. Bauer, Resident Manager

Bronx Shelter TYrone 2-8500

420 Morris Park Avenue, Bronx 60, N. Y.

(between Tremont Ave. and East 178th St.)

N. Michael Bromley, District Manager

Brooklyn Shelter TRiangle 5-9580
233 Butler St., Brooklyn 17, N. Y.
(between Nevins and Bond Streets)
Harry J. Connolly, District Manager

Manhattan Shelter TRafalgar 0-7700
441 East 92nd St., New York 28, N. Y.

Francis Melvin, District Manager

Nassau County Shelters
Pratt Blvd. Ext, Glen Cove, L. 1.
Vincent J. Patterson, Shelter Manager

70 Water Street, Long Beach, L. 1.
James J. McKenna, Shelter Manager

ORiole 6-5913

GEneral 1—0660

Queens Shelter REpublic 9-4041
94-27 158th St., Jamaica 33, N. Y.
Robert B. Ferris, District Manager
Richmond Shelter Glbraltar 7'0122
4 Willow Ave., Rose-bank, S. I. 5, N. Y.
Walter L. Hollinde, District Manager
Western Westchester Shelter LYric 2-7890
Old Saw Mill River Rd., Elmsford, N. Y.
Carl Stohr, Shelter Manager

Serving Glen Cove, Sea Cliff, Bayville, East Hills.

Serving Tarrytown, North Tarrytown, Mount Pleasant, Irvington, Dobbs
Ferry, Hastings-on-Hudson.

 

 




to visit animals in this ward. But they can see their pets through a plate glass
window and communicate with them over a two-way radio.

TUMOR RESEARCH

In cooperation with the Sloan-Kettering Institute for Cancer Research,
ASPCA is conducting research on tumors and other new growths in dogs and
cats. Specimens of growths are taken during surgery or autopsy performed with
the owner’s permission. The specimens are sent to Sloan-Kettering for analysis,
along with a history telling the date the growth was ﬁrst noted, the rate of de-
velopment, changes in the appearance of the growth, and the animal’s symptoms.

A Sloan-Kettering pathologist diagnoses whether the growth is benign
or cancerous, and if the latter, the degree of malignancy. Armed with this
information, our veterinarians can tell the owner what the outlook is for his
pet. They can recommend further surgery if necessary, or the proper medical
care.

Diagnoses of specimens from autopsied animals help the veterinarians to
correlate our clinical examination and Sloan-Kettering’s pathological analysis.
This helps in determining similar disorders in future patients. One staff

member, specializing in pathology, devotes most of his time to this sort of
analysis.

NEW ANTI-CANCER DRUGS

We have had encouraging results from studies of new anti-cancer drugs,
particularly with one form of cancer called malignant lymphoma. This disease
is closely akin to leukemia, which has been unresponsive to therapy so far.

After an initial diagnostic fee, animals treated with anti-cancer drugs are
hospitalized free of charge. They receive care as closely approximating that
of human patients as possible. Meticulous case histories are kept and copies are
sent to Sloan-Kettering, thus cementing an interchange between the animal
world and the human world as to the good or bad effects of these anti-cancer
drugs.

If therapy is successful the animal is returned to its owner. On the other
hand, if the animal seems to be suffering, or if the disease advances, destruc-
tion is recommended. This program at least gives otherwise doomed animals
a ﬁghting chance, while at the same time fulﬁlling its major purpose—to
help cure future generations of animals.

Besides anti-cancer drugs, we are constantly clinically testing other medi-
cations for infectious or metabolic diseases.

SHELTER SERVICES

e have ﬁve shelters in New York City, one in each borough. The

Manhattan Shelter in a four story building that is just ten years
old this fall, houses our hospital and administrative offices. The newest New
York City shelter is our modern red-brick Bronx Shelter, erected in 1956 to
replace an old, outmoded building.

16

 

 

 




FREE EXAMINATIONS

Although we take every reasonable precaution to guard the health of the
animal you adopt, we can’t guarantee that it does not harbor a disease. So
each adopted animal is entitled to a free examination and one serum inocula-
tion against communicable diseases. We urge you to take advantage of this
service at the ASPCA Hospital on the day of adoption. But if that’s impossible,
you may bring your pet in within tWo weeks after adoption, any day, except
Saturday, Sunday or holiday. Regular hospital hours are from 9 am. to
4:30 p.m. We also offer free advice and a booklet on the care of your new pet.

ALTERING OF ADOPTED ANIMALS

To prevent the birth of unwanted puppies and kittens, we recommend
that adopted male and female cats and female dogs be altered. If the surgery
is done in our hospital, the Society will bear all hospital costs (except the
surgical charge) up to the time the doctor recommends that the animal be
discharged. The costs which are included free cover hospitalization, examina-
tion, entrance, drug and inoculation fees.

Application for the alteration surgery must be made within two weeks
after adoption. However, since some animals are too young for this surgery
at the time of adoption, we give owners four months in which to take advantage
of the service.

PREVENTING CRUELTY

5 our name implies preventing cruelty is one of our most important

A jobs. The Society was founded originally to curb the cruelty to

work horses so prevalent in the 19th century. We are still protecting horses

with regular inspections of stables, bridle paths, riding academies and dray
horses, watching for saddle sores, overriding and other abuses.

Around the turn of the century, there were about 115,000 horses in
New York City. Today there are fewer than 2,000. The remaining horses in-
clude police horses, riding academy horses, a half hundred which still haul
junk and vegetable wagons, and the hansom cab horses which drive sight-
seers around Central Park.

ASPCA men know every horse in the City by name and inspect them
weekly. We operate two horse ambulances to transport injured or infirm horses
to our hospital, where there is a special horse stall. If an owner requests, we
will destroy his'horse humanely. During the summer two trucks dispense cool
water to hot, thirsty horses throughout the City.

But today We also regularly inspect poultry markets, kennels, zoos, pet
shops, slaughter houses, stockyards, and laboratories requisitioning animals
from the Society.

Our staff of twelve special agents, who wear uniforms like those of the
New York Police force, also watch for cruelty at all special events involving
animals. They attend every performance and rehearsal of circuses and rodeos

23

 

 




JUNIOR MEMBERSHIPS

One way in which we encourage children to become interested in animals
is our Junior Membership program, open to individual children under 18
and organized groups of children such as Scouts, Campﬁre Girls, Y’s, and
1 other community groups. Dues are $1 a year for an individual or for the
l entire group.
All Juniors and Junior Groups receive:
1. Subscription to the ASPCA. magazine ANIMAL PROTECTION three
times a year.
2. A visit by appointment on Saturdays to our Manhattan Shelter and
Hospital at 441 East 92nd Street, consisting of :

0 A short discussion on animal care, followed by questions and
answers on children’s individual pet problems.

0 Demonstration with live animals showing how to brush, comb,

i give medicine to a pet, etc.

0 Sound and color ﬁlms about animals.

0 Children can watch and even cuddle some of the animals in our

classroom, including parakeets, hamsters, ﬁsh, white mice, chin-
chillas, guinea pigs, parrots, a dog and a cat.

0 Conducted tour of the hospital and shelter, highlighting the dog
and cat adoption wards.

 

 

I" ; " Demonstration of rescue equipment for small animals.

0 A packet of educational material (presented to the leader in the
:1; case of a group). i

i . 3. Invitation to the annual Junior Jamboree held in Central Park in
1 June. This culminates the yearly junior program and includes re-

} freshments and entertainment with participation by the children
i themselves.
’l

4. Junior Groups receive an ofﬁcial certiﬁcate of membership, while

individual Junior ’Members get an ofﬁcial button and membership
card.

I

l

r

t In addition, individual Junior Members have the opportunity to assist
the Humane Education Department in conducting the tours, feeding the

animals, walking the dog, etc. Time spent is credited toward a Junior Achieve-

ment Award which is made after 50 hours of service in one year and is pre-

sented at the Junior Jamboree.

 

 

 

30 ii]

 

 

 

 

 

 




Chimpanzee says good-bye to attendant
before leaving for new home.

Capuchin monkeys en route to
a mid-west zoo hold a conference.

Monkeys, gorillas, baboons, apes and chim-
panzees have literally swung from the rafters
of the ASPCA Animalport. Since the shelter
at New York International Airport opened in
1958 to take care of animal air travelers,
23,000 of our primate cousins shipped to
the U. S. from Africa and Asia have regis-
tered there.

Most have behaved themselves. But there
was the chimpanzee who twice picked the
lock of his cage, opened a window and
sneaked outside to eat his banana. Then
there was another escape artist—a rhesus
monkey who managed to open his own cage
and then generously sprung 40 of his friends.

Happy reunion for owner and baby gorilla
iust arrived from the Belgian Congo.

- ' ~ ‘ ’ “I ’ . . 4, Baby chimpanzee that caught cold on the plane
Rhesus monkeys are fed and watered after - . ; . ‘l is nursed back to health.
a tiring trip from New Delhi, India. ‘- r _ - . ' , 7 - .:

 




States Government and thus are not forced to install humane slaughter methods
unless state laws are passed. Several states, including California, New Hamp-
shire, Wisconsin, Minnesota, Washington and Massachusetts have passed such
a law.

LEGISLATION F OR NEW YORK STATE

You will notice New York is not one of these states, although the hope
is it will be before another year goes by. During the past two sessions of the
New York State Legislature the ASPCA, working with the New York State
Humane Association, has backed humane slaughter bills and has been repre-
sented in Alb-any to get these measures passed.

During the 1959-1960 legislative session there were these hurdles which
prevented the bills from becoming law:

The New York State Department of Agriculture was reluctant to see a
state humane slaughter law passed until this department had time to observe
the operation of the federal law. Any pitfalls could then be eliminated before a
state law, which the department would have to enforce, was put into operation.

The principal obstruction, however, was the number of bills introduced.
There were ﬁve. This diversity confused and divided humanitarians as well
as legislators.

Some of these bills (not the one sponsored by the ASPCA and the New
York State Humane Association) did not accept orthodox Jewish slaughter as
humane, and objections were raised. (The federal law exempts ritual slaughter
from its provisions.) At least two of the bills objected to were conceived and
sponsored by humane organizations outside New York State through contacts
within the state. And when one such bill was voted out of the Assembly Agri-
culture Committee, pressure was brought to bear which led its sponsor to
request it not be heard before the Assembly.

When the legislators discovered there was divided opinion among humane
organizations, they withdrew support of any humane slaughter bill until
humanitarians could agree on one piece of legislation.

While this is perfectly logical, it is not easy to accomplish. Many people
do not believe the Jewish method should be accepted as humane. Many others
believe it is better to compromise and get some humane slaughter law even
though it is not perfection. The ASPCA takes the second stand because it l
seems to us that in New York State, where there is a high percentage of
kosher packing houses, this is the practical View.

 

 

AWARDS

n recognition of outstanding achievements where animals are con-
cerned, we present the following awards: 1

MEDAL or HONOR ‘~

The medal, accompanied by a Certiﬁcate of Merit, goes to a person who
has performed an heroic service for animals, or to an animal that has rescued
a person. Recipients in the past have included a dog that warned a family of

37

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

- WedneSdaY night; Nmbr21960 .
V I Numberof . . 1 '_ , -, '

 

 

 

. . .‘ . . ..... - .' EndArena
-7 . . .» ........ ' End'Arena'

 

VOLUNTEER ACTIVITIES

ASPCA to beneﬁt from

National Horse Show
This fall the ASPCA will reap the beneﬁts

of a performance at the National Horse Show
in Madison Square Garden on Wednesday
night, November 2.

Naturally, we want a success and we hope
anyone who wishes to go to the Horse Show
will take tickets through the Society. Our
proceeds will be derived from the tax de-
ductible contribution added to the box ofﬁce
price.

Following the performance, the ASPCA is
giving a champagne supper for patrons at
the Hotel Astor in honor of the, International
Teams. To become a patron you need only
purchase two tickets at $35 each. $27 of each
ticket represents a contribution to the Society.

Mrs. William Rockefeller is Honorary
Chairman, Mrs. Robert A. Schmid is Chair-
man and Mrs. Elizabeth N. Graham (Eliza-
beth Arden) is Chairman of Patrons. Other
chairmen include Mrs. William Zeckendorf,
Miss Joan Crawford, Miss Glenna Lee
Maduro, Mrs. E. Albert Berol.

Members of a newly formed Men’s Com-
mittee include Richard Bandler, James H.
Blackwell, Richard S. Cass, Henry C. Filter.
Bertram R. Firestone, Alfred R. Heath,
Walter S. Mack, Samuel E. Magid, José
Martin, W. Fellowes Morgan, Harvey M.
Spear, John Welsh III, Gilbert H. Wehmann,
Arthur Westa and Gilbert White.

    
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
   

0

l . . ,
payable to '. the: ASPCA-,5, for ticke‘t‘s‘if

 
  

   
  

tickets _ Locatiaﬁf; T

... . ..... . End Arena.

  

ccccccccccccc

     
  

,. ,. . . . . . . . . EndAIena
‘ Meaning"

I would like i... vs

”3’51““ attend but/ﬁn 16's m 99mm nfo 1::

  

...........

 
 

 
  

CALENDAR OF EVENTS
FOR THE 1960-1961 SEASON

National Horse Show Booth Nov. 1-8

Beneﬁt Night at National Horse Show Nov. 2
The Ark Dec. 5-9

A yearly sale of contributed bric-a-brac, jew-
elry, china, glassware, linen, etc.

Secor Farms Horse Show Dec. 26
ASPCA beneﬁt
Animal Kingdom Ball Jan. 26

Sheraton East Hotel
Westminster Kennel Show Booth Feb. l3, l4

Hi-Jinx for Animals Feb. 11
Ardsley Country Club

Carnival for Animals Feb. 12
Creek Club, Locust Valley

Adopt-A-Pet Parade Apr. 2

Easter Sunday event

WOMEN’S VOLUNTEER COMMITTEE

Mrs. George Hayman, Director of Volunteers
Executive

Mrs. Robert A. Boucher
Mrs. Walter P. Chrysler, Jr.
Mrs. E. Keppler Cowen
Mrs. Richard A. Johnson
Mrs. Serge Walter

Mrs. William Zeckendorf

Planning
Mrs. Dreher Armstrong
Miss Rhoda Bartholomew
Mrs. James Burton
Mrs. Oscar B. de la Rosa
Mrs. Joseph H. Doherty
Mrs. Russell B. Douglas
Mrs. William Greene
Mrs. Frederick R. Hanson
Miss Irene Hayes
Mrs. Alfred Heath
Mrs. Peggy Ann Kent
Mrs. D. Culmore Lincoln
Mrs. C. Ruxton Love
Miss Glenna Lee Maduro
Mrs. Renee. M. Mayberry
Mrs. James McCutcheon
Mrs. William H. Reid
Mrs. Umberto Romano
Mrs. Robert A. Schmid
Miss Esta Silsbee
Mrs. Mayson Hatch Tucker

Long Island Executive
Mrs. Bouvier Beale
Mrs. John Logan
Mrs. Sterling Pile
Mrs. Mayson Hatch Tucker

Westchester Executive
Mrs. Charles Bernuth
Mrs. Albert C'. Bickford
Mrs. Nelson Kimball
Mrs. David R. Rutter
Mrs. Stuart R. Stevenson
Mrs. Ashley Thorndike

 
 

 

 

 

 




 

 

Laboratory animal welfare

We believe it is the job of any humane
organization to campaign for the highest
standards of care for animals inside of lab-
oratories as well as outside.

We further believe that national standards
are a necessity. This means a broad program
of education of the public so it will support
such a campaign, plus a set of rules for
laboratory animal care and rigorous training
of laboratory technicians.

Leading the battle in this campaign is
WARDS, an organization with headquarters
in Washington, DC. Its alert and vigorous
Secretary, Mrs. Peyton Hawes Dunn, has
almost single-handedly accomplished several
practical steps for better laboratory animal
care. For instance, as a result of her efforts,
beagles conﬁned for life in the sub-basement
of the Agriculture Department will be re-
leased into adequate indoor-outdoor space
in a new building.

Accepting laboratory animals as wards,
Mrs. Dunn does not meddle with the work of
doctors or scientists. She concentrates on the
basic needs of the animals themselves—
housing, exercise, water, food, air, light and
professional care.

Because no sensible person can quarrel
with her aims, Mrs. Dunn has won the re-

 

SOCIETY WINS SUIT

On April 8 a group called the
Vivisection Investigation League
brought suit against the ASPCA,
challenging our right to use our
name. The group sued on the
ground that the Society furnished
animals to laboratories for med-
ical experiments (in accordance
with the provisions of the Metcalf-
Hatch law). It contended that this
constituted cruelty to animals and
that therefore the ASPCA’s title
was fraudulent. On May 25 Justice
Charles A. Loreto of the State Su-
preme Court dismissed the case.

 

spect of members of Congress, doctors and
leaders of animal welfare organizations. And
these are the groups which must learn to
work together without bitterness and recrim-
inations if the laboratory animal is to have
a happier and better life.

A step in the direction of establishing a
federal law to set up standards for laboratory
animal care was taken in the last session of
Congress with the introduction of a bill by
Senator John Sherman Cooper. Bill 53590
called for the humane treatment of animals
used in experiments and tests under grants
from the United States Government.

Many groups opposed the bill for a variety
of reasons. Some felt it did not have sufﬁcient
enforcement powers. Others believed it would
seriously interfere with research itself. When
it is reintroduced in the January session of
Congress, it is almost certain to be drastically
revised. At that time the ASPCA will eval-
uate its provisions and advise our members
on its support.

 

 

 

52

Animals withheld from
St. Vincent’s Hospital

On July 25 a dog used in laboratory work
at St. Vincent’s Hospital, New York, jumped
off the hospital’s roof while being exercised.
As a result the ASPCA and the New York
Society for Medical Research have agreed to
withhold giving any lost, strayed or aban-
doned animals to St. Vincent’sHospital until
its laboratory quarters are rehabilitated. A
spokesman for the institution said that until
improvements meeting ASPCA’s standards
were completed there was no intention of
housing dogs or cats in its animal quarters.

Since the Metcalf-Hatch Law was passed
in 1952, the ASPCA, by private agreement
with institutions requisitioning animals from
the Society, has been permitted unannounced
inspection privileges. Our inspectors had
noted that while there was a parapet around
St. Vincent’s roof, there was a fence. Our
inspectors, however, had been assured that
the hospital’s animals were always on leashes
while being exercised.

 




 

 

EDITORIAL

Figures carelessly used and embellished
upon repetition eventually snowball into pure
fantasy.

Apparently, this is What’s happening when
ﬁgures are quoted about so-called homeless
cats in New York City. The other day the
Society received a telephone call from the
research department of Readers Digest. The
caller was checking a statement in an article
in which the author claimed there were
200,000 stray cats in New York City. The
editor questioned such a high ﬁgure—and
he had a right to.

When two humane society visitors from
the mid-west quoted a highly unrealistic
number of New York strays recently, a mid-
night tour of Manhattan streets was sug-
gested. For three hours we rode around block
after block, concentrating on areas Where
demolition was at its peak, and where strays
are most likely to be found. The search
turned up only 14 feline wanderers, and
undoubtedly most of them had a home in
some delicatessen, grocery or restaurant,
closed for the night,

We’re often asked about the underground
cats at Grand Central Station, or the cats
that hang around the docks. The answer is
that the railroad and steamship oﬂicials don’t
want them removed because they keep away
rats. The cats are well fed, too, for friendly
members of the crews generously share their
lunchboxes With them and regard them as
pets. '

Of course there are strays. There always
have been and there always Will be some
homeless animals. But their numbers are not
increasing —— the ASPCA will never let up its
vigilance in rounding them up.

MXW.

Director 0 f Operations

; 9 animal
protection

VOL.14,NO.2

Janice Paprin, Editor

IN THIS ISSUE

So You Want to Be a Veterinarian. 2

ASPCA Checks Animals

 

FALL 1960

at F reedomland ............... 4
The Nation’s Number One

Doghouse ..................... 6
Monkey Business at the Animalport 8
Doin’ What Comes Naturally ...... 10
The Pony Express ................ 11
Letters .......................... 12
Special Supplement:

This Is the ASPCA .......... 13-40

Annual Report Section

Form of Bequest ................. 41
Figures Behind the Facts ......... 42
Volunteer Activities .............. 44
Committees ...................... 45
Financial Statements ............. 46
Staff ............................ 48
ASPCA Shelters .................. 50

We Need the ASPCA .............

Inside Back Cover

 

Cover picture

David Watson, 3, has a puppy in his arms and
delight on his face during a visit to the
Manhattan Shelter. He was among a group
from the New York Guild for the Jewish
Blind, a non-sectarian home, who toured the
shelter recently and got on speaking terms
with the animals. David was one of 13,245
youngsters who visited the shelter last year.
World Telegram & Sun photo by Phil Stanziola

Animal Protection is published three times yearly
by The American Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, Editorial Ofﬁce, 30 East 60th
Street, New York 22, N. Y.

 




 

The most famous Wildlife sanctuary in the
world is the Kruger National Park in South
Africa, a magniﬁcent game preserve about
the size of New Jersey.

Here visitors see all the principal species
of South African wildlife padding through
the bushveld in sublime indifference to the
carloads of thrilled spectators. Visitors may
also observe some fascinating methods of eat-
ing, sleeping, hunting and killing.

For instance, the zebra, a horse in
striped pajamas, sleeps at night. The wild
beast snoozes during the day. Together they
form a round-the-clock alarm service to foil
marauders.

The tick birds serve as an animated
toothpick. Crocodiles hold their jaws agape
while the birds pick clean their razor-sharp
teeth. One naturalist tells of seeing an old
crocodile which absent-mindedly devoured a
bird working on its teeth. Other tick birds
shunned the croc, which eventually died of
a tooth infection.

The fastest of all animals is the chee-
tah, a handsome tawny cat dappled with
spots. Tested by stopwatch on a greyhound
track, the cheetah clocked in at 70 m.p.h.

A giraﬂ'e’s blood pressure is more than
13 times as high as man’s — to get the blood
pumped up its incredibly long neck. Its
Latin name is camelopardalis. Originally, it

Elephants rove in freedom in South Africa’s Kruger National Park, the world’s largest zoo without bars.

Doin' what comes naturally

 
 

was believed to have been a cross between a
camel and leopard.

The hippo, another improbable look-
ing creature, wallows in the mud with only
eyes peeping above the waterline. When life
is dull ashore, he has the remarkable ability
to submerge and take a stroll on the sandy
bottom of a deep river. The hippo’s head.
topped with its absurdly tiny ears, weighs a
quarter of a ton. Its jaw muscles are mighty.
With its canine teeth, big as a baby’s arm.
it can crunch through a crocodile’s hide, or
sever a man in one bite.

Porcupines have been known to get
drunk. They sip the juice of fermented mare.-
ola berries and reel away, content with life.

The lion packs the most deadly wallop
of all jungle beasts. A hunter once saw a lion
fell a running zebra with one blow of his
sledge-hammer paw. The zebra was dead in
half a second. The one lethal blow had skill-
fully dislocated the zebra’s neck.

Elephants weigh in at about six tons.
Each of the ponderous creatures eats about
900 pounds of vegetation daily.

Authorities report that it’s impossible
to dig an aardvark (favorite of crossword
puzzle addicts) from his burrow. This power-
ful little animal can dig faster than several
men With spades—and drag along three
men clinging to its tail.

 

 




 

By contrast, the Queens Shelter, in a picturesque, rustic setting, includes
a 100-year-old farm house which serves as an adoption ward. Three other
buildings house the kennels, license oﬂice and garage. The 28-year-old Brook-
lyn Shelter, which cared for nearly 52,000 animals last year, handles more
animals than any other shelter in the country. The vine—covered shelter in
Richmond, built in 1935, is a landmark known to almost every resident on
Staten Island.

These are the services performed in these shelters.

UN WANTED ANIMALS

A cherished pet becomes too old or hopelessly ill. A family is moving
and can’t take the pet along to the new home. An unwanted litter of kittens
becomes a burden. In all these cases the ASPCA stands ready to help. All
our shelters will accept any animal brought in at any time of day or night
at no charge. Our ﬂeet of 35 ambulances will also call at homes for unwanted
animals. The animals are then put up for adoption, or painlessly put to sleep,
according to the owner’s request. So many owners have a change of heart
after offering a pet for a new home that we hold all such animals for 24 hours
before putting them up for adoption. This gives the original owner a chance
to reclaim his pet.

For many years the ASPCA didn’t charge for home pick-ups. But we
found that often we had to make two or three calls for one animal—some
owners changed their minds, others weren’t home, or gave pets to neighbors,
and still others brought animals to the shelters before we got to their homes.

And so in 1954, because of the increasing cost of duplicate calls, it
became a question of eliminating home pick-ups entirely, or making a nominal
charge. (Many animal welfare organizations do not call at homes for animals.)
We decided to charge a $1 fee for each call for unlicensed dogs, cats, birds or
any other animal. Licensed dogs in the ﬁve boroughs are called for at no

charge. (For pick-ups in Long Island and Westchester, see “Shelters Outside
New York City.”)

The $1 charge applies not only to your own pet, but also to one which
has wandered onto your premises, or an obviously lost animal you may have
picked up oﬂ? the street. Frankly, we were forced to charge for unowned
animals because some people, in order to save the $1, claimed their owned
animal to be a stray. The fee now pays for about one quarter the cost of the
pick-up service.

Last year our ambulances answered 86,236 calls for unwanted animals,
an average of about 240 a day. Almost 78,000 animals were brought to the
shelters by owners.

Of the 165,875 animals handled in our shelters last year 80 percent were
put to sleep. While this may seem like a high percentage, the fact is many
of these unfortunate animals were in ill health or were too old to be accepted
into new homes. The principle reason for the high percentage, however, is that
the majority—101,777—were put to sleep at their owners’ request. The
decompression method used is, in our opinion, the most humane, swift and
painless available when dealing with numbers of animals.

17

 

 




 

 

 

 

24

in New York City, and every recognized horse show within a 65-mile radius
of Manhattan.

Last year we made 11,124 inspections, in which 2,810,190 animals
were checked.

INVESTIGATION OF CRUELTY COMPLAINTS

Since the ASPCA is empowered to enforce anti- cruelty laws within the
whole State of New York, we maintain ﬁfteen special agents throughout the
state, in addition to the twelve 1n the city.

If a local humane organization can handle complaints in its area, the
ASPCA does not interfere. Often, when an expensive trial is contemplate-d,
or where additional agents are needed, or the local group doesn’t have the
necessary financial backin b, we are asked to help.

Here 1n the City our agents are on duty from 8 a.m. to 10 p.m., including
weekends. Normally, a complaint received one day is investigated the next.
However, emergencies such as an animal being tortured are investigated
immediately regardless of the hour. Agents on duty telephone their ofﬁce
hourly at quarter hour intervals, and the agent nearest the scene is sent to
investigate. All agents carry revolvers for humanely dispatching a suffering
animal.

Last year we tracked down 5,454 cases of alleged cruelty, an average of
15 a day. We welcome all complaints, even though anonymous callers make
our job difficult. Often insufﬁcient information is reported and we have no
way of pursuing the case further. Many people are quick to accuse a neighbor
of cruelty, but later refuse to sign a complaint or appear in court as a witness.

The majority of cases we investigate are corrected after a warning. But
if that fails, we will prosecute. About one percent of all cases end in court
action. But we prepare all such cases so carefully that we secure a surprising
number of convictions in which offenders are ﬁned or given jail sentences.

Taking a case to court can be time-consuming and expensive. One typical
case was reported to our Bronx Shelter on May 23, 1958. Two men were said
to have stoned and beaten a dog with a two-by-four. Our agent found the
animal in pitiful condition. At the hospital, our veterinarian pronounced its
condition so serious the dog had to he put to sleep.

A workman on a nearby building project signed a complaint and three
co- -workers offered to testify. Three days later the two offenders were found
and held on $500 bail. But one year and nine months elapsed before sentence
was pronounced. Meanwhile ASPCA representatives, including the veterinarian,

Tl "

     

 

 




 

So you want to

Many .. tunities

0 you like anim
D to interpret the'
they are content
pain? Do you
tions? Do you 100
the cause? Are yo
B or better? If you ha '
ity and persistence, you
veterinarian.

and wool for clothing— and ingredients for
many drugs used in treating the Slck Some
6.000 care for animals kept as pets They
generally own and operate hospitals in cities
and towns. There 1s a d and for veterinar-
riding' ' stables.
unty,yi-V.state and
al , disease con-
on supervision

ians in zoos, circuses an
federal governments i
trol programs, meat,

and public health.

have veterinary

 

 

 

be a veterinarian!

lie in private practice, research, industry, education or with the government

high school. Today’s veterinarian takes at
least two years pre- veterinary training in
college before entering four years of pro-
fessional training at one of 20 colleges of
veterinary medicine periodically inspected
by the American Veterinary Medical Asso-
ciation’s Council on Education. Graduates
earn the degree of Doctor of Veterinary
Medicine.

To encourage veterinary study the ASPCA
each year offers a $300 scholarship to a
fourth year veterinary student at Cornell
University, Ithaca, New York. The recipient
is chosen by the veterinary faculty on the
basis of need, scholarship and competence.

In his training he learns the comparative
anatomy for the major species of animals;
the diseases which may afﬂict each and their
prevention or treatment. He must learn about
drugs, the nutritional needs of the various
types of animals and the effects on an animal
when certain essential foods are not included
in its diet. He studies the carcasses of ani-
mals to see how their disease may affect
products made from the animal.

Because an animal cannot tell what it is
feeling or where it hurts, the veterinarian
must know animals well enough to recognize
signs of disease from the animal’s behavior
and scientiﬁc tests.

During the four years in veterinary col-
lege, the student receives nearly 4,000 hours
of classroom training plus practical experi-
ence at the large and small animal clinics of
the college. While not a requirement, most
students, after graduation, work for a veter-
inarian for a year and a half to two years to
gain practical experience before starting their
own practice.

Before he can practice for himself or
anyone else, however, the new veterinarian
must pass an examination by a State Board

of Veterinary Examiners. If he passes his
tests, he may be licensed to practice in that
state. Several states have agreements so a
man licensed in one state may practice in
another without having to be re-examined.

The medical training and experience with
animals common among modern veterinar-
ians has led to increasing demands for their
services in other than what might be consid-
e1 ed traditional ﬁelds.

Most students entering veterinary school
today, plan to become private practitioners.
If they come from cities and towns, they may
think of veterinarians as dog and cat doctors.
If they come from farms, they may feel the
veterinarian cares for cows, sheep and pigs.
All want to devote themselves to animal wel-
fare, but before graduation may ﬁnd they
can serve both animals and man best in one
of the many areas other than private practice.

Small as the profession is, there are fewer
women entering this ﬁeld than other ﬁelds of
medicine. There are about 300 women vet-
erinarians practicing their profession. The
majority of these are in small animal work,
but an increasing number are going into
teaching and research.

For his service to his community and con-
tributions to agriculture and public health,
the graduate veterinarian can expect to earn
about $6,000 in the ﬁrst year after gradua-
tion. The average veterinarian earns about
$10,700 net income before taxes. For those
entering the Armed Forces, the veterinarian
starts at the rank of ﬁrst lieutenant. Federal
veterinarians start at $6,130, with state,
county and municipal veterinarians receiving
about the same.

A booklet “Veterinary Medicine as a
Career” is available from the American Vet-
erinary Medical Association, 600 S. Michigan
Ave., Chicago 5, Illinois.

 




 

SCHOOL CHILDREN

Saturday is the day set aside in the classroom for Junior Members. But
weekdays are bookedup with classes of school children and their teachers.
Last year 13,245 children visited the shelter, saw ﬁlms, took the grand tour
of the hospital and learned animal care.

PET SHOWS

More and more New York youth organizations are realizing the social
. value of encouraging a child’s interest in a pet. The result is that pet shows
‘ are becoming a popular youth organization activity. The ASPCA is frequently
invited to supervise the shows and we often act as judges and present awards
for the best cared for pets.

LITERATURE AND FILMS

Fifty-three thousand pieces of educational literature were distributed last
year— free to public schools and at cost to the general public. Many of the
booklets, ranging in price from 5¢ to 50¢, were written by the Humane
Education Department staff. A list is available on request.

Among the most frequently requested booklets are That New Puppy,
The Dog as a City Pet. The Cat as a City Pet, Your Dog and Its Care and
Your Cat and Its Care. The last two are given free to people who adopt
animals from the ASPCA. Your Dog and Its Care was completely revised
last year. More than 100,000 copies of the ﬁrst edition were distributed.

A series of bookmarks with information on pet care is being prepared.
Bookmark on the dog, turtle, cat, hamster and parakeet are already available.

Last year more than 300 schools, pet clubs, civic groups and other
humane societies showed our ﬁlms or asked for our recommendations on
motion pictures and ﬁlmstrips on animals.

PUBLIC APPEARANCES

Our Supervisor of Education gives lectures and demonstrations on animal
care on radio, television and in schools and the New York Public Library.
Last year she made 40 such appearances, including regular guest spots on
Tinker’s Workshop, a children’s TV program, and the Today show, which
has an audience of about four million viewers.

CONSULTATION SERVICE

Our Humane Education Department serves as consultant on animal prob-
lems to a number of organizations. The Supervisor is a member of the Com-
mittee on Animal Care of the Board of Education of New York City, and has
been named to the Advisory Council of the Dog Care Division of Ralston
Purina Co., manufactUrer of dog food.

When the company decided to encourage pet fairs in schools as a form
of institutional advertising, we were asked to help prepare material to be
distributed to teachers. The result was How to Hold a Pet Fair, a colorful kit
containing a banner, armbands for judges, exhibitors’ tags, posters advertising
the fair, gold, silverand blue ribbons for winners, certiﬁcates of achievement

31

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

ﬁre during the night and a pet that protected its owner from attack by a
prowler. Among the human recipients was a boy who saved a drowning dog.

ALFRED B. MACLAY TROPHY

The trophy’s purpose is to emphasize to young riders the importance of
kindness and gentleness in handling their mounts. It is open to children under
18 who compete in the ASPCA Horsemanship Event at reCognized horse
shows throughout the country. Winners of the individual shows compete in
the National Championship Event at the National Horse Show each year. The
winner receives a replica of the original challenge trophy which was donated

by the late Alfred B. Maclay in 1933.
HENRY BERGH TROPHY

This horsemanship trophy is open to young riders at non-recognized horse
shows throughout the country. The trophy is awarded yearly to the junior
who accumulates the most points in competition in the Henry Bergh Class
in various shows. At the end of the year an extra ﬁve points is given any
entrant who can prove that he has cared for and groomed his own horse. The
trophy itself is donated to the Society. Last year the trophy was given by
Mr. and Mrs. Richard Bandler. Next year’s silver revere bowl is being donated

by Mr. and Mrs. John H. Bo-rrie.

VETERINARY SCHOLARSHIPS

Since 1956 we have offered a $300 veterinary scholarship at Cornell
University. The scholarship goes to a fourth year veterinary student chosen
by the faculty on the basis of need, scholarship and general competence. It
is made possible by Secor Farms Riding Academy, which contributes to us
the proceeds of its annual horse show, and will continue through 1964.

JAMES HOPKINS AWARD

This sterling silver plaque is presented for the best improvement in the
humane slaughter of food animals. The late James Hopkins left the Society
a trust fund to be used speciﬁcally for this purpose.

JUNIOR ACHIEVEMENT AWARD

The annual award goes to Junior Members who put in 50 hours of work

in the Humane Education Department, caring for the animals, performing
clerical duties, etc.

WHERE OUR MONEY COMES FROM

38

ccording to the law the license fee is collected to pay for shelter

A services—issuing licenses, enforcing the license law, maintain-

ing shelter for the care of lost, stray and abandoned animals, putting them to

sleep humanely, and so on. (During the past year the expenses were
$306,668.47 above the fees collected.)

Other services—humane education, inspections, legislative activities,

investigations, prosecutions, rescues, literature, horse watering, care of charity

cases in the hospital and adoptions —— come from memberships, contributions
and bequests.

 

 




 

 

EXECUTIVE

William Rockefeller, Chairman
James H. Jenkins

Richard C. Kettles

José A. Machado, Jr.

Horace H. Nahm

Hugh E. Paine

John W. Ream

James H. Ripley

FINANCE

James H. Jenkins, Chairman
José A. Machado, Jr.
William A. Meyerhofl

Hugh E. Paine

William Rockefeller

Sub-Committee on
Retirement Fund

José A. Machado, Jr., Chairman
James H. Jenkins

R. W. Allen

 

 

BUILDING AND GROUNDS

James H. Ripley, Chairman
John D. Beals, Jr.

Ernest B. Burton

William Fellowes Morgan
John. W. Ream

HOSPITAL AND CLINIC

Hugh E. Paine, Chairman
Wm. Joshua Barney, Jr.
John W. Cross, Jr.
Richard C. Kettles

A. Wells Peck

HUMANE WORK

Richard C. Kettles, Chairman
William E. Buckley

Ernest B. Burton

Joseph B. Murray

A. Wells Peck

PUBLIC RELATIONS, FUND
RAISING AND EDUCATION

John W. Cross, Jr., Chairman
Wm. Joshua Barney, Jr.
Alastair B. Martin

William Fellowes Morgan
Joseph B. Murray

NOMINATING COMMITTEE
For Ofﬁcers

Hugh E. Paine, Chairman
John D. Beals, Jr.
William Fellowes Morgan

For Board Members

William Ross Proctor, Chairman
Wm. Joshua Barney, Jr.

Horace H. Nahm

Mrs. William Warner Hoppin
Miss Anna R. Alexandre

Mrs. J. C. Traphagen

The following special agents investigate cases of cruelty throughout New York City:

William Ryan

John F. Joule
Raymond J. Mulligan
Alfred J. D’Alessio

Vincent J. Patterson
John Stitzel

Robert P. Hammatt
Joseph C. Schlesinger

Victor E. Balluff
Carl C. Stohr
Thomas L. Regan
George F. Bauer

The Society is also represented throughout the St ate of New York by these special agents:

 

Charles Pearson, Jr., Buffalo, Erie

William C. Sullivan, Buﬂalo, Erie

Adolph Schaefer, Catskill, Greene

C. Raymond Naramore, Rochester, Monroe
James H. Cruikshank, Freeport, Nassau
Ernest J. Reynolds, Niagara Falls, Niagara
Edward Schermerhorn, Phelps, Ontario
Lloyd L. Weir, Geneva, Ontario

Michael J. Donohue, N ewburgh, Orange
Edward B. Butler, Warwick, Orange

Frank G. Howarth, St. George, Richmond
Monroe D. Ray, Montour Falls, Schuyler

Ray Winne, Kingston, Ulster

Charles M. Barber, Port Chester, Westchester
Joseph Filancia, Harrison, Westchester

 

 




 

    

Transit Patrolman, wearing ASPCA Medal of
Honor, accepts Certiﬁcate of Merit from President
William Rockefeller. Awards were presented at
the Society’s Annual Meeting on May 17.

Three cited for dog rescues
The ASPCA’s Medal of Honor was awarded

to three men for two recent dog rescues.

Transit Patrolman Joseph Caﬁso was hon-
ored for saving Blackie, a German shepherd
whose legs were caught in the ties of a sub-
way track. Two Manhattan-bound trains from
Brooklyn were held. up 15 minutes while
Patrolman Caﬁso freed the dog. Blackie had
apparently followed a neighbor to the sub-
way and walked 15 blocks along the tracks
to where he was found.

After the rescue Blackie was treated for a

 

 

Fire Fighter Charles Apanel and Fire Chief Isaac
Holiber are congratulated by Mr. Rockefeller.
photos by Roland Harvey

cut on his leg at the Brooklyn Shelter and
returned to his owner, who was traced
through the dog’s license tag.

In another case Fire Chief Isaac Holiber
and Fire Fighter Charles Apanel, stationed
at the Brooklyn Navy Yard, were cited for
saving a dog trapped in a manhole.

The alert was given by another dog whose
whimpering led the men to the manhole
Where the victim was caught ﬁve feet below
ground. While Chief Holiber held his ankles,
Fighter Apanel lowered himself into the man-
hole and freed the dog. Both dogs promptly
scampered away.

 

To bathe or
not to bathe a cat

Opinion is divided as to the wisdom of
regular Saturday night baths for cats. Some
feel long-hair cats can’t really get clean
otherwise. Others feel cats naturally clean
themselves and do a pretty good job of it.
Another argument against is that cats are
too susceptible to colds after a bath. Some
cat experts recommend not a bath, but a
shower.

Whichever method you follow use only a
mild soap and thoroughly dry the cat be-
fore it has a chance to catch a chill. Then
brush and comb knots and tangles out of
the hair.

Bathing, however, should never take the
place of regular daily grooming with a brush
and comb, especially for long-hair cats. Use
a brush with stiff bristles and brush both
ways—long strokes from head to tail and
short strokes going the opposite way.

Brushing stimulates the oil sac at the root
of each hair and brings out the natural
sheen of the coat. It also helps remove dust,
odors and loose hair. With every lick of the
tongue a cat swallows some hair. Soon it
becomes a mass which could be fatal if
caught in the stomach or intestines. Brushing
helps eliminate that danger.

A sleek, shiny coat is not only a good in—
dication of a cat’s general health, it is one
of the feline’s outstanding claims to beauty.

53

 




 

   

' Even before Freedomland, New York’s
new amusement park, opened last June, the
ASPCA was already casting a watchful eye
on the animal exhibits. Our Agents helped
set up minimum Work standards for. the
horses, mules and burros used to draw stage
coaches, surreys, trolleys and a merry-go-
round. They offered suggestions for improved
housing for the seals and bison.

Special Agent William Ryan checks mule-drawn
merry-go-round. .Notewooden sun-shade over
animal. This was added at ASPCA’s suggestion.

 

Line of burros bearing children through canyon
trails is stopped while agent examines leg.
Leather halter was substituted for neck rope.

ASPCA
animals «at

  

Since the opening at least one agent has
been stationed at the park every day. The

management has been generally cooperative.
but the biggest problem has been the inex-
perienced men hired to handle the animals.
At our suggestion, the Pony Express feature
was curtailed because the “Bronx cowboys”
hired to ride the ponies were riding the
animals too hard.

Agent examines burro’s eye. After one such in-
spection of a baby bison he discovered an in-
fected eye and called in a veterinarian.

 

Elsie is shown in her “boudoir.” One visitor sus-
pected she had been given a tranquilizer, but
Ryan found she was iust a contented cow.




l g _ suggested
wheels Would glide

photos by Al Levine

Agent Raymond Mg}! mouth a! [to se
pulling surreycf' . mals work two or three

Seals don’t get sunburned, but they do blister.
So agents discuss placing sun umbrella over sea Chickens

in the farmland area of Freedomland
pool. Canvas tent was later installed.

are inspected, along with sheep, pigs and ducks.

 




 

The

pony
express

Centennial celebrations
mark romantic chapters in

history of U.S. mails

A century ago a youth in St. Joe, Missouri,
leaped onto a prancing pony to start a 1,966-
mile relay to Sacramento, California, carry-
ing mail and news. The Pony Express was
off in a ﬂurry of excitement and dust. The
staccato of its hoofbeats, hurrying across
Western plains and mountains still echoes in
American legend.

This most glamorous chapter in the his-
tory of the U. S. mails and the Old West
lasted only eighteen months. But the stories
live on of the devoted men who daily risked
death to hold a sprawling country together
in the uncertain days before the coming of
the talking Wire and the iron rail.

Such is the hold of the Pony Express on
the modern imagination that all of 1960 has
been declared Pony Express Centennial Year
by presidential proclamation. On July 19 the
Post Ofﬁce Department issued a new Pony
Express commemorative stamp at Sacra-
mento, together with a new commemorative
stamped envelope at St. Joseph. Many pag-
eants and celebrations memorialized the
Pony Express, including a reenactment of
the original Pony Express runs.

Johnnie Fry (or Frey) is credited with
being the ﬁrst Pony Express rider to leave
St. Joseph on April 3, 1860. He was little
more than a boy when he entered the Ex-
press service. He was a native Missourian
weighing less than 125 pounds.

Requirements for a Pony Express rider
were stringent, as this notice in a San F ran-
cisco newspaper attests:

 

“Wanted—young, skinny, wiry fellows
not over 18. Must be expert riders, willing
to risk death daily. Orphans preferred.
Wages $25 a week . . .”

The youthful Pony Express riders con-
sistently outran Indian pursuers while carry-
ing the mails through the wilderness, often
through blinding snows and howling storms,
and in extremes of heat and cold. Only one
rider, however, lost his life—victim of an
Indian arrow. But in the true Pony Express
tradition, he delivered the mail safely to his
home station. Wounded and slumped over his
saddle, he was carried in on his horse, a
black mustang streaked with blood from
three arrows. The rider died the next day,
but there is no record of the horse’s fate.

A well-remembered Pony Express horse
was American Boy, who broke away during
a two-minute changeover and galloped off
with the mail. He raced to the next relay
station well ahead of the rider who tried to
catch up on another horse.

The Pony, operated by the transportation
ﬁrm of Russell, Majors and Waddell, made
more than 300 runs each way, delivering
nearly 35,000 pieces of mail. Fastest time:
seven days, 17 hours, with Lincoln’s In-
augural Address.

On October 24, 1861, the cross country
telegraph was completed, linking East and
West, and the Pony Express died. Despite
its short life, it helped keep the country
joined during the early crucial days of the
Civil War. And as long as the winning of
the West survives in the memory of Amer-
ica, the story of the Pony Express will live.

 

 

 

Pony Express commemorative stump issued by
the Post Ofﬁce on July 19.

11




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

.18

STRAY AND ABANDONED ANIMALS

Many residents of other large cities, both here and abroad, have com-
mented favorably on the few stray animals on New York streets compared to
those in other cosmopolitan areas.

This is because the Society is constantly rounding up abandoned and
homeless animals on the streets. We are alert when new demolition projects
are announced. We post signs in the area requesting old tenants not to abandon
animals when they move. When the situation is serious, we leave baited traps
at the site which catch stray animals painlessly. Each-day the traps are
emptied and reset. Unfortunately, well-meaning citizens sometimes make our
job more difﬁcult by feeding strays, which are then not attracted to our traps.

Last year 33,102 stray and abandoned animals were rescued from streets

and buildings.

TO THE RESCUE

Several times a day, somewhere in the city a cat
gets stuck up a tree, or a dog is marooned down a
manhole. A litter of kittens is heard meowing be-
hind a foot-thick wall, or a dog is caught in a sub-
way turnstile.

40-foot tree. With the gratuitous advice of the
crowds that gather to watch, the frightened animal
is freed and handed to a grateful owner or taken to
the shelter.

ANIMAL ORPHAN S

What happens to an animal whose owner goes to
prison or a hospital, or dies, and leaves no one to
care for his pet?

ASPCA’s Medical Stray Ward, which last year
cared for 3,111 animals, is the answer. Some of
these “temporarily” homeless animals are with us
for years. Like the parrot whose owner died with-
out making provision for his pet. The bird was cared
for in our shelter for several years until its fate was
decided by the courts. Polly became a pet of the
attendants, who taught her to speak and fed her
the choicest tidbits they could lay their hands on.

 

Almost always these “orphans” are sheltered
without remuneration.

h. *‘ v-“uvm .4... WM.

Armed with ladders, poles, axes and Chisels, our
men race to the rescue. Sometimes they break a
wall, sometimes they risk their lives climbing a i

 

 




 

appeared in court 12 times. Postponements and delays were granted because of
overloaded court calendars and the temporary disappearance of the defendants.

This was a particularly costly case, but the climax was worth it. On
February 24, 1960, each defendant was sentenced to $100 ﬁne or 15 days in
jail, plUs 15 mandatory days. Both served 30 days behind bars.

WHAT WE CANNOT DO

The laws in New York State determine what constitutes cruelty and what
does not. If a case does not come under the laws, we are powerless to interfere.
We cannot indiscriminately take an animal away from an owner accused of
cruelty. Depriving an owner of his animal can only be done by a judge, if
he ﬁnds the defendant guilty after a fair trial.

We can do little about incessant barking, lack of proper shelter and
pigeons. Incessant barking is not illegal. But if it is prolonged it can be
classiﬁed a nuisance and becomes a matter for the police.

Lack of proper shelter is more serious and should be covered by a New
York State law. A few bills have been presented to the Legislature, but met
with opposition from farmers who do not want large farm animals included.

Many people consider pigeons a nuisance and a menace to health. Others
enjoy and feed them. While the ASPCA does not round them up, we will
furnish a humane pigeon trap plan to anyone who requests it and we’ll pick
up trapped birds for a $1 fee, or accept them at the shelters at no charge.

Littering the streets with food for pigeons is a matter for the New York
Sanitation Department.

BULLFIGHTS

There has been a groWing tendency during the past few years to soften
up the American public on the subject of bullﬁghting. Actors, writers and
other public ﬁgures have openly supported the gruesome spectacle. Adver-
tising, paintings, posters, books, motion pictures and television have publicized
the ceremony.

During the past ﬁve years a succession of promoters has sought our
approval to import and stage a bullﬁght in New York. We have violently
opposed all such suggestions and have successfully kept bullﬁghts out of
the City.

Bullﬁght publicity is another matter. We have no means of preventing
newspaper and magazine articles. Freedom of the press allows a publisher to
report or pictorialize any public event.

25

 

 




 

 

and a take-home folder for parents on pets and pet care. Ralston publicized the
kit nationally and received 112,000 requests for the packet and a companion
kit entitled Education Through Pets.

OBEDIENCE TRAINING FOR DOGS

With the City’s dog population pegged at around 270,000, obedience
1 training is a real necessity for all dogs. Bad-mannered dogs are a hazard in
1 trafﬁc, an annoyance to neighbors and a nuisance to landlords. A well-behaved
l . pet is welcome almost everywhere.
1 Since 1944 the ASPCA has trained 16,000 dogs and their owners at our
obedience training classes in Manhattan and Glen Cove. Dogs and owners
1 are always trained together—the theory being that we teach you to train
.1 1 your dog. Dogs must be at least six months old, but there is no maximum age.
1 All dogs must be licensed.
11‘ 1 In the beginners class the dog learns to walk at the owner’s side, sit, lie
5 down, come on call, stay, stand on command and jump over a stick. In the
1 advanced class the dog learns to do all this off leash, plus carrying, retrieving
‘ and jumping over hurdles. Speciﬁc problems are not dealt with individually,
but obedience training helps give an owner better over-all control of his dog.
The nine-week courses begin in winter, spring and fall. The fee is $15
for owner and dog. Visitors may attend for $3 a course, single ticket 351.
Children are welcome as visitors, but they are seldom qualiﬁed to take the
course, except with the instructor’s special permission.

 

 

 

 

 

 

Obedience Classes
MANHATTAN ALL-BREED CLASS —- Tuesday evening

 

Beginners Advanced
7:30-8:30 6:30-7:30
8:30 - 9:30
Meets at Washington Irving High School, 17th Street and Irving Place
MANHATTAN POODLE CLASS —— Monday evening
Beginners Advanced
’11: 6:30- 7:30 8:30-9:30
‘ 1 7:30 - 8:30

1 Meets at Washington Irving High School, 17th Street and Irving Place

GLEN COVE CLASS —— Thursday evening
7:45 - 8:45
8:45 - 9:45

Meets at the East School

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

THE ASPCA DOLLAR

WHERE IT CAME FROM WHERE IT WENT

    
 
  
 
  

‘ SHELTERS

OUTSIDE CITY

BOARD AND
PICK-UP FEES 1

ENT*

  
 

12¢ I

9;: H
EMBERSHIPS PRECIATION

AND , _
CONTRIBUTIONS 3¢ INSPECT” DMINISTRATION

HORSE CARE

 
     

8¢ D CIT

* Shelter’s occupancy of Society’s buildings

REQUESTS AND TRUST FUNDS

Money or property may be bequeathed to the Society in a will. Such
funds are used for the general purposes of our work. Or trust funds may be
set up specifying how the principle or income may be used.

MEMORIAL EN DOWMEN TS

Many friends endow cages in our hospital or shelters in memory of
relatives or pets. The income is used to pay for the maintenance of the cage,
and a plaque bearing the name of the donor is placed on the cage. Dog cages
are $250, cat cages are $150. Memorial plaques are also placed on endowed
pieces of equipment in the hospital.

CONTRIBUTIONS AND MEMBERSHIPS

Contributors who prefer to support one of our services may give to our
Horse Care Fund, Hospital Fund, Adoption Fund or General Fund (which
pays for inspections, investigations, humane education, rescues). Memberships
are used for the general purposes of the Society.

SPECIAL EVENTS

Several special fund raising events are sponsored for the Adoption Service
each year by our Women’s Volunteer Committees in Manhattan, Westchester
and Long Island.

In Manhattan the events include the Animal Kingdom Ball and the Ark,
a shop in which we sell quality items like silver, glass and jewelry donated
by members and friends. The shop operates for one week early in December
in a store donated for the purpose.

The Westchester Committee raises funds at a tea-dance known as Hi-Jinx
for Animals. In Long Island funds come from a tea-dance called Carnival for
Animals and an annual Advertisers Almanac. The Almanac, paid for by
advertisements from Nassau and Suffolk merchants, contains a section on

39

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

*Includes $94,476.08 rental charge for the Shelters’ Occupancy of the Society’s Buildings,
as per contra.

**$73, 678. 94, representing the provision to re-establish the Societys Investment Fund, has
not been included as a charge 1n computing this item.

46

 

 

 




 

 

   
 
  

“Elephants out
the door... 3)

Jackasses
never more! '

llx Dogs are ‘
Voting for...

0! du Pow ””0””
Cut the Cost of Chewing

Vote the Straight
CANINE TICKET!

 

 

 
  

 

 

 

 

‘ , 5' comm
militia?“ lhararfngﬂrinq ’
‘REGULAR'---I£° i - etc? ordogs -
{703333129 toehew upon
(r. lama ; . Qlll "IQ longtW ,-

SllgblIyHIgharlnCuda .».- ..
WOVEN QAFE FOR YOUR DOG!
Better Pet Stores Everywhere

. NYLABONE CORFORA-ttagi

P.0.lox7-.222 OklahomaCityIYﬂklm' _

 

 

    

 

 

  
   

Great way
to buy stocks

Requires only $40 a month, or
every 3. months. Choice of any
of 1,200 stocks listed on New
York Stock Exchange. Start any
time. Quitanytime—nopenalties.
Write for free booklet

THOMSON & McKINNON
2 Broadway, New York
MEMBERS NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE

Meat packer earns
seal of approval

John Englehorn 81 Sons, pork processors
of Newark, N. J., received the American Hu-
mane Association’s seal of approval for hu-
mane slaughter of livestock.

The presentation was made by Arthur L.
Amundsen, ASPCA Director of Operations.
Mr. Amundsen is also the chairman of the
New York State Humane Association’s com-
mittee to draft humane slaughter legislation
to be presented at the next session of the
New York legislature.

Englehorn qualiﬁed for the award when
their entire hog production was converted to
electrical stunning to render animals insensi-
ble to pain prior to slaughter. The equipment
was developed by the Globe Co., Chicago, Ill.

 

Arthur L. Amundsen presents seal of approval for
humane slaughter to John Englehorn & Sons:
Edgar Moss, Chief Technical Engineer and Walter
Brasch, Vice-President, accept the award.

 

More than two thirds of the na-
tion’s meat packers under federal
meat inspection are now using
approved slaughter methods, ac-
cording to the U.S. Department of
Agriculture. By July 1, 354 of the
530 federally inspected plants had
converted.

A federal law provides that only
meat products from packers which
slaughter humanely are eligible
for sale to federal agencies.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

The

:natiorls
runnberone
“doghousé’

Will the next President
of the United States
continue the tradition
of puttino his “best
friend” in the nation’s
most impressiv .
“doghouse?”

 

Fala taking a ride near Hyde Park With h
master, President Franklin D. Roosevelt.

 

President Theodore Roosevelt in the doorway
of West Creek ranch house,
Colorado, with his favorite dog, Skip.

 

 




LETTERS

In defense of St. Bernards

P I just read your 1960 spring issue and
the article “The Right Dog for the Right
Owner,” in which you say, “Don’t put a
Great Dane in a Pomeranian sized apart-
ment. Truly large dogs like Newfoundlands
and St. Bernards belong on farms or estates
where they can get the exercise they need.”

Owned by two St. Bernards, a cooker and
a crossbreed, you can guess I love animals.
The Saints have made us extremely touchy
about their size. After 49,000,000 have
quipped “Where’s his saddle?” and “Why
do you want such a big dog?” the large dog
owner will go to war quite easily.

You might have mentioned that 3. Porn
exercises by jumping on furniture and racing
about. Saints do not need the exercise that a
small dog needs, nor the exercise needed by
the hound or sporting breeds. They need

love and affection and grooming more than
anything else.
MRS. ROBERT H. LAVENDER
Estancia, New Mexico

Experimentation approved

P I give up! Enclosed is my check for
membership in the ASPCA, and also a con-
tribution for your Hospital Fund. I promise
not to say another word against “experimen-
tation.” In fact, now that I have seen what
veterinary medical science can do for a dog
as sick as our dachshund, Spritzer, I am
convinced that his recovery was a direst re-
sult of sacriﬁces made by other dogs.

The operation performed at the ASPCA
Hospital certainly saved his life, and I feel
certain that the lives of thousands of pets,
who otherwise wouldn’t have a chance, are
prolonged because of years of research and
experience.

JOSEPH J. HACK, JR.
Litchﬁeld, Conn.

 

NEW WINNER!

ALSO

 
    

 

 

 

 

AVAILABLE
IN 50 LB-
BAGS FOR
KENNELS-
\ ASK YOUR '
PET F00” """
surrl‘“

     
     
       
   
 
 
  

Sizes: lO‘/4 015., 30 015., 4 lbs., 20 lbs.

DOG DINNER

(REPLACES PAL 'rmv BITS) ®

N ow—a “complete food” that has been thoroughly tested for
3 years on 3 generations of dogs! Puppies and full-grown dogs—fed
exclusively on new Pal Dog Dinner—met every standard of sound
and healthy growth our nutritional experts demand. There’s no need
to add vegetables or meat or milk or supplements of any kind. Keep
your dog on a steady diet of Pal Dog Dinner and watch him thrive!

12

 




 

This special section describing the ASPCA and its services
" , has been prepared for ready reference for our members, con-
tributors and the public which makes use of our services. ASPCA
President William Rockefeller’s report at the Annual Meeting on
May 17, 1960, was based on the information in this section.

 

 

 

!
l

\ THIS IS
THE ASPCA

he lost, the unwanted, the sick, the mistreated —— these are

 

the animals protected and cared for by The American

Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

 

Since 1866, the ASPCA has guarded the welfare of New York’s
animals. Our ﬁrst job was preventing and halting cruelty. Then we
1 took on the care of stray and abandoned animals. Later, we estab-
lished a hospital to extend our healing hand to sick and injured pets

and an adoption service to ﬁnd homes for unwanted animals.

Today we serve animals in so many ways that about half of all
New York’s animals are helped each year at our eight shelters, our
hospital or Animalport.

Here are some of the ways we serve.

13

 

 

 

 




WILD ANIMALS

To the outsider New York is a city
of concrete and steel, far from the
jungles and woods inhabited by wild
animals. In truth, there are many
woods and marshes in outlying areas
in Queens, Staten Island and the
Bronx. And every so often a creature
ventures out of its forest home to be-
come a bewildered city visitor.

Often deer swim across the Nar-
rows from New Jersey and land in
Staten Island. Odd birds become
stuck in the marshes in Queens. Foxes
wander into the Bronx from West-
chester. A housewife uncovers her
trash barrel and discovers a raccoon
in hiding.

We rescue these untamed animals from the perils of civilization and place
them in our Medical Stray Ward. Last year our guests included alligators,
beavers, chinchillas, ferrets, foxes, hamsters, iguanas, monkeys and ocelots.

There were birds, including cranes, mynahs, parrots, robins, blue jays, hawks '
i and an albatross.

Some of the animals are turned over to zoos; others are released to

freedom in their natural habitats.

 

 

 

 

 

DOG LICENSES

here does the money come from to pay for shelter services? In

most. communities the state or local government collects dog
license fees, maintains dog pounds or shelters, and enforces the license law.
InmNew‘York City the ASPCA is unique in being entrusted with these, duties
uaéexs....§_w-1§rPassed in 1894-

USE OF THE LICENSE MONEY

This law stipulates that the fees be used for the following purposes:

I. Issuing licenses and renewals.

2- Carrying out all other provisions of the Dog License Law (supplying
tags, notifying dog owners when to renew licenses, returning lost dogs
to owners, inspectors’ salaries, clerical work, etc.).

3. Seizing unlicensed dogs (and stray cats which do not wear a collar
with the name and address of the owner).

4. Maintaining shelters in New York City for lost, strayed or homeless
animals. All animals must be kept for a minimum of 48 hours before
destruction, or if they have been requisitioned by laboratories for
experimental purposes under the pro-visions of the Metcalf—Hatch law,
they must be held for an additional three days.

19

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

Protests from us are not very effective. Editors expect a humane society
to protest. But letters from readers can and often do affect policy. Publications
are printed to sell, and if an article has displeased a large segment of the
readership, a publisher is unlikely to print a similar one again.

The same is true of radio, television or motion pictures. Recently
WNEW-TV presented an hour program showing three -bullﬁghts. The pictures
were made in Mexico. According to a station spokesman, the program was
intended to promote good relations between the United States and Mexico,
where bullﬁghting is an accepted tradition.

We protested to the station, the advertiser and the Federal Communi-
cations Commission. All replies were either evasive or indiﬁerent. The National
Association of Broadcasters has a code of ethics which states that bullﬁgh'ting
“is not in conformity with accepted standards of humane treatment.” The
catch is that WNEW-TV is not a member of the Association.

BITE CASES

hile a New York City law requires that all animals accused of
biting must be examined by a veterinarian, the ASPCA has no

jurisdiction in these cases. They are handled by the Department of Health.
But the ASPCA does provide the Department of Health with free space
in our ﬁve borough shelters for examining animals accused of biting. We also
provide facilities for housing animals the Department decides to hold for
observation. Last year we held 6,091 animals while they were being observed.

The owner of an animal accused of biting must do one of two things:
1. Take the animal to the ASPCA shelter in the borough where he lives

to be examined by a Department of Health veterinarian.

2. Or take the animal to a licensed veterinarian who will examine the
dog at the owner’s expense, and submit his report to the Department

of Health.
The examining veterinarian may:
1. Release the dog for future examination.
2. Or have it held for observation.

3. In the case of a third bite within a 24-month period, the dog must be
surrendered to the Department of Health for hearing and decision.

DEAD ANIMALS

26

I he ASPCA provides three services for pets which have died:
'2; l. Pick-up of a pet which has passed on. The fee is $5.

2. Arrange for cremation. Through an arrangement with Marble Hill
‘ Crematory for Pet Animals, the ASPCA will have the animal picked




 

 

THE METCALF-HATCH LAW

n July 1, 1952, the Metcalf—Hatch Law went into eﬁect in New
York State, permitting laboratories and hospitals approved by
the State Commissioner of Health, or if in New York City by the City
Commissioner of Health, to requisition animals for experimental purposes
from public pounds and private humane organizations to which public author- 5:!
ity has been delegated by statute or contract. ‘
The ASPCA falls under the provisions of the law because:
1. Its authority to operate is granted by the New York State Legislature.
l 2. It is empowered by the New York State Legislature to issue dog
licenses and carry out the obligations imposed in the dog license law
in New York City.
Challenged in the courts, the constitutionality of the law was upheld by
the Court of Appeals on July 14, 1954.

ANIMALS SUBJECT TO REQUISITION

Animals subject to requisition must be unlicensed, unwanted or unclaimed,

unless the owner of a licensed dog or other animal offers it in writing for
experimentation.

 

Under a previous law public pounds and humane organizations were
required to hold any unlicensed, unwanted or unclaimed animal for 48 hours.
Under the Metcalf-Hatch Law, each animal requisitioned must be held for
an additional three days, during which the animal may be reclaimed by its
owner or adopted. I

If the animal is then allocated to a laboratory or hospital, the humane
organization or pound is reimbursed a reasonable amount for the animal’s
maintenance during the extra three-day waiting period. In the case of the
ASPCA, the New York City Commissioner of Health has established as a
reasonable amount 662/3¢ a day for a cat and $1.50 a day for a dog. Both
amounts are considerably lower than the average kennel boarding rates. The
Society has been accused of selling animals for experimentation. This is untrue
and is a misinterpretation of this small maintenance fee.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Animals requisitioned from the ASPCA last year
_ Dogs Cats
Albert Einstein College of Medicine .................................... 41 102
Bronx Hospital 45 —
Cornell University Medical College 416 206
Jewish Chronic Disease Hospital 149 2
Jewish Memorial Hospital ' 2 ——
Maimonides Hospital 54 —
Monteﬁore Hospital 226 —-
N.Y. Medical College 2 —
Queens General Hospital 106 —
St. Vincent Hospital 149 —
State University of N.Y. (Downtown Medical Center)... 25 —
Sloan-Kettering Institute for Cancer Research .................. 202 —
U. S. Naval Hospital 74 —
Veterans Administration Hospital 89 _—_—
Total 1,580 310

Total dogs and cats 1,890

 

 

 

 

33

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

practical facts about the Island, plus household hints, ﬁshing and gardening
guides, postal rates, and other helpful information.

Next year we’re adding one new fund raising event. We will reap the
proceeds from the sale of as many tickets as we can dispose of for the second
night of the National Horse Show at Madison Square Garden on November 2.

PUBLIC RELATIONS

40

When people do not know what an organization is doing—or

how it is doing it, they cannot be expected to understand,
respect, make use of, or contribute to its program.

Simply stated, this is the basic reason behind ASPCA’s public relations
— to win the public’s understanding and good will by conducting our program
of animal welfare in a manner to be proud of and by keeping the public
informed of these services.

The media which help bring our message to the public include the press,
radio, television, speaking engagements, booths, exhibits, special events and
our magazine ANIMAL PROTECTION, which tells our story‘to 15,000 members
and contributors. An employee newsletter keeps the staff abreast of current
events in the humane ﬁeld.

Booths are conducted at the National Horse Show and the Westminster
Dog Show at Madison Square Garden. Special events include the Adopt-A-
Pet Parade on Easter Sunday. Animals adopted the previous year parade
with their owners, followed by typical homeless animals from our shelters.

This year exhibits showing seven of our services were displayed in the
sidewalk windows of the East River Savings Bank at Rockefeller Plaza. There
were also showcase exhibits in the bank’s ﬁve branches.

During the past year the Society’s activities were publicized in over 900
newspaper and magazine articles all over the United States and in many
foreign countries. The articles included 268 pictures. Our message reached
an audience of many millions through radio and television.

This publicity, unusual for a local organization, stems from dozens of
interviews given to reporters and free-lance writers, as well as press releases
and articles distributed to news media.

While newspapers, magazines, radio and television disseminate important
information about the ASPCA, they also frequently misinterpret our func-
tions, and it is the job of public relations to correct wrong impressions. For
instance, many people think the ASPCA is a national organization and believe
we ought to crack down on cruelty to animals any place in the United States.
Actually, there is no national humane organization which works directly
with animals. There are hundreds of independent SPCA’s throughout the
country. The ASPCA, the oldest and largest, has authority only in New York
State. In practice, our program is conducted primarily in New York City
and environs.

Behind all of these public relations activities is the ASPCA’s strong
belief that we exist to serve the public interest and the public is entitled to
know and understand this objective.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

We have audited the accounts of The American Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals for the year ended April 30, 1960 and

We hereby certify that, in our opinion, the Condensed Balance Sheet and the
Condensed Statement of Expenses and Income submitted herewith present
fairly the ﬁnancial position of the Society at April 30, 1960, and correctly
sets forth the results of its operations for that period.

WW

New York, May 12, 1960 Certiﬁed Public Accountants

47

 




 

health
ahead

 

when regular/y fed a balanced diet

A cat’s prime of life—the period of its greatest breeding
potential and award-winning beauty—will be longer
and healthier if it’s nourished consistently on a diet
abundant with health-giving nutrients.

And Puss ’n Boots, as cat fanciers and breeders know,
contains every nutrient a cat is known to need. Fresh—
caught whole fish are a natural storehouse of vitamins,
minerals, and proteins; whole-grain cereals supply

EVERY DAY—All. THIS NOURISHMENT IN EVERY 8 OZ. CAN

 

carbohydrates; and extra Vitamins 31 and E are added
to round out the complete range of nutrients in every
can. As the chart shows, there’s a world of variety in
every Puss ’n Boots meal, too.

Feed whole-ﬁsh Puss ’n Boots regularly, beginning
today. You’ll see the improvement—in glossier coats,
more even dispositions, and brighter eyes—within less
than three short weeks.

SUNDAY A can of Puss 'n Boots has twice as
much calctum~for strong bones—
MONDAY as a 10 02. glass of milk. E 0’
There is more prOtein in a can of da _ yer a .—
TUESDAY Puss 'n Boats than in a juicy lamb 300/978, y t 't y y
chop. or I e on nu f] [on
WEDNESDAY> Puss 'n Boots contains two times as A O.l bl in 8“ ongd )5. z iz
THURSDAY much blood-building iron as a cup V '0 e ‘ ° '5 es
of steamed spinach.
FRIDAY In Puss 'n Boots tlliere is as much
riboﬂavin—for hea thy eyes-as in
SATURDAY an equal serving of lean raw beef.

 

Plus 01/7 or vital nutrients essential to your cat's well-b eing.

Coast Fisheries Division of
The Quaker Oats Company,
Chicago 54, Illinois

 

55

 




   
 

 

  TQPCA r
, AMBULANCE l

lo

 

 

HOSPITAL WITH A HEART

{Q 0 animal in need of care is ever turned away,” is a slogan our

N Hospital is proud to live up to. A dog injured in a street

accident. . . a cat with a needle lodged in its throat. . . a pet parakeet that’s

' lost its appetite —— these are some of the 32,547 animals treated in our Hospital
and Clinic last year.

The modern hospital, located at the Society’s headquarters, 441 East 92nd
Street, Manhattan, consists of two surgery suites, ﬁve examining rooms, a
treatment room, pharmacy, X—ray and ﬂuoroscope room and a clinical pathol-
ogy laboratory. The equipment is identical to that used in hospitals for man.

Many pieces of equipment, such as a diathermy machine, a clinical
camera, a sterilizer, an operating table, a resuscitator and an anesthetizer, were
contributed by generous friends of the Society.

The hospital staff includes a director, an ofﬁce manager, nine veterin-
arians, nine attendants, a laboratory technician, porter, night supervisor, and
ﬁve ofﬁce workers.

Clinic hours are from 9 am. to 4:30 p.m. Monday through Saturday,
except holidays. There is emergency service Sundays, holidays and evenings
until 7 p.m. Animals are examined in the order of their arrival in the reception
room. Of course emergencies are taken ﬁrst. To avoid waiting, appointments

may be made in advance for an added fee, and a client may see a particular
doctor at a speciﬁed time.

AMBULANCE SERVICE

If an owner can’t bring his animal to the hospital, we will send an
ambulance equipped with oxygen tank, stretcher, emergency lights and ﬁrst
aid kit. Ambulance service is available 24 hours a day. The fee depends on
the distance from the. hospital.

Our hospital fees are comparable to those charged at other veterinary
hospitals. However, where an owner proves, he can’t afford our regular fees, 1
he pays what he can. In cases where an owner can pay nothing, fees are
waived entirely. Forty percent of our patients are charity cases.

IF A PET MUST BE HOSPITALIZED y

Most patients are examined in the outpatient clinic and home treatment
is provided. But many must be hospitalized. In these cases: l

0 We urge owners to protect pets by authorizing temporary immuniza-

14

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

5. Providing a painless death for animals not redeemed by their owners
or adopted by new owners.

Last year the cost of these services exceeded the income from license

fees by $306,668.47.

DOG POPULATION DECREASING

WHO

20

While license fees are the ASPCA’s greatest source of income, they are
diminishing year by year as the city’s dog population decreases. There are
about 17,000 fewer dogs in New York City today than there were ten years
ago. Last year 263,994 licenses were issued— 7,000 fewer than the previous
year.

Two primary reasons for the decreasing dog population are:\'

1. Many families with children and pets are moving to the suburbs.

2. Many publicly ﬁnanced and private housing developments do not
permit dogs.

NEEDS A LICENSE

Under the law every dog housed in New York City must be licensed,
regardless of age. From the moment a puppy is born until it dies it requires
a license, which is renewable each year before April 30.

Licenses are $3 and can be obtained in person or by mail from the

 

 

Questions Frequently Asked about Licenses

I have two homes, one of which is in New York City. Must my dog
have a New York City license?

A. Yes. But visitors do not need tags if they are in the City only a
few days.

Q. Can I get another tag if mine is lost, or if I want several for
different collars?

A. Yes, additional tags may be purchased for $1 each.

Q. If my dog dies, may I transfer his tag to a new dog?

A. No. Licenses are not transferrable to a new dog because the de-
scription on the license certiﬁcate would not ﬁt the new dog.

Q. Suppose I give my dog away. Can the new owner use the same tag?

A. Yes. But ask the new owner to notify us.

 

 




 

ASPCA ofﬁce in the borough where the owner lives. Applications bymail
should contain the name, address and telephone number of the owner, plus
the name, age, breed, sex, color and markings of the dog, and should be
accompanied by a check or money order for $3 payable to the ASPCA.

KENNELS AND PET SHOPS

Dogs kept for sale in kennels and pet shops do not need a license. How-
ever, we do advise it as a protection to the dealer in case a dog is lost or
escapes. The license can be transferred to the purchaser, who will need a
license anyway if the pet is to be kept in New York City. The license fee can
be added to the sale price.

Dogs kept for breeding purposes must be licensed.

LOST DOGS

Last year 5,645 lost dogs were returned to their owners, mainly because
they were found wearing license tags. The license number is quickly checked
in our cross-ﬁle. We have two ﬁles: one numerical and one alphabetical
according to the owner’s name.

Our lost and found departments also do their best to trace owners of
unlicensed dogs. They read lost and found columns, check newspaper ads and
telephone calls. But no system is as sure as the tag. We have returned lost
dogs to owners as far away as Florida, Massachusetts and South America by
tracing the tag number.

PENALTIES

Owners who have not licensed their dogs may be summoned before a
magistrate and ﬁned up to $10. If the ﬁne is not paid, owners can be im-
prisoned up to ten days. If an unlicensed dog is picked up on the street, the
owner must pay a $3 redemption fee, plus the $3 license.

The Society has 23 license inspectors who enforce the law. Each inspector
is assigned to one area in the City. He visits residential buildings in his area
to make certain every dog living there has a license. In addition, we remind
owners by mail early in March that licenses must be renewed by April 30.
Reminders also appear in newspapers and on radio and television.

FINDING HOMES
FOR THE HOMELESS

inding homes for the homeless is a major responsibility of any

Fanimal welfare organization worthy of its name. With ASPCA it’s
a mission well rewarded when thousands of insecure, frightened cats and dogs
are transformed into proud, conﬁdent pets.

We have more than tripled the number of animals placed in new homes
over the past ten years by placing added emphasis on this phase of our
program. Last year homes were found for a record 20,016 animals. The highest
ﬁgure in our history, this tops the previous year by 1,000.

21

 

 




 

up and cremated. The charge is $40 to $50 for a dog, depending on
size; 3535 for a cat. Ashes will be'delivered to the owner if desired. 2;

3. If burial is preferred, we refer the owner to one of several Cemeteries ;
on Long Island or in Westchester.

SHELTERS OUTSIDE
NEWV YORK CITY

. he ASPCA operates three shelters outside of New York City. Two

Tarewin Nassau County, Long Island—one in GlevWCove, the other
in Long Bexiacﬂh. The third is in Westchester County at Elmsford'.

We were invited into these neighboring communities several years ago.
In Long Island local government authorities requested us. to take over their
shelter work and provided the shelters.

In Westchester the Western Westchester Humane Society, which was no
longer strong enough to fulﬁll its obligations in the area, appealed to us to
take over its shelter. This attractive suburban shelter located among wooded
hills, was completely refurbished. We. added landscaping, a year-round aviary,
a new heating system and an apartment for a caretaker.

In all three communities we are under contract to- local governments.

0 In Long Beach we serve only that city. .

0 In Glen Cove, besides our contract with that city, we also have con-

tracts to' service nearby Sea Cliff, East Hills and Blayville.

0 In Elmsford, while we do not service this town itself, we have contracts
with Irvington, Mount Pleasant, Tarrytown, North Tarrytown,
Hastings-on-Hudson, and Dobbs Ferry.

All these areas, except Irvington and Mount Pleasant, have dog leash
laws. Where a leash law exists we are responsible for picking up any unleashed
dog, whether licensed or unlicensed, if it is off its owner’s premises. If there
is no leash law, it is our duty to pick up any unlicensed dog running at large.
The animals are then kept at the shelter for at least five days, giving the owner
a chance to redeem them. There is a boarding fee for animals not called for
within 24 hours. '

Penalties for allowing a dog to run loose vary because of differing local
laws. Some communities exact ﬁnes'as well as redemption fees. In some

        

ANMAL WELT“
PET ADOP‘HON CENTER

 

 

 

 

27

 

 




instances ﬁnes are collected by the police; in others we collect the penalties
and turn them over to the local government. We never retain either a ﬁne or
a redemption fee.

OTHER SERVICES

The three shelters also offer other humane activities:
' ' We call for unwanted animals on request from homes in the areas

where we have contracts for a $1 fee.
0 We accept unwanted animals at the shelters for adoption or to be

put to sleep, regardless of where the animal comes from. [I
0 We ﬁnd homes for the homeless through our intensive and extensive

adoption service. li
0 We rescue pets in distress and wild animals in the contract areas.

There is no charge for the last three services, but contributions are
always welcome.

 

Shelter Hours

GLEN COVE
:' 8 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., Monday through Saturday
Telephone answering service after hours or for emergency.

LONG BEACH
8 a.m. to 4 p.m., Monday through Friday
8 a.m. to 12 noon, Saturday
Call the police after hours or for emergency.

ELMSFORD
8 a.m. to 5 p.m., Monday through Saturday
Employee on premises after hours or for emergency.

Injured, abandoned and stray animals are picked up 24 hours a day,
seven days a week.

 

 

 

 

 

THE AN IMALPORT

The ASPCA Animalport at New York International Airport is the

only depot in the Western Hemisphere built especially for airborne

animals.

During the past few years airlines have been ﬂying more and more live
cargo. Frequently there are lay-overs in baggage rooms between ﬂights. l
Ordinary baggage can wait until it’s called for, but living creatures have to I
be fed and cared for.

To ﬁll this gap, the ASPCA operates the Animalport in the Cargo Area
of New York International Airport, one of the world’s busiest airports. Our
experienced handlers house, feed, water and exercise airborne animals in
de IUXe accommodations during stop-overs. Some animals stay a few hours,
others a few weeks. The hostel, located on a one and a quarter acre site, is
open round the clock with a resident manager in attendance.

Since it opened in 1958 the two-story, modernistic shelter has cared for
56,000 walking, ﬂying and slithering animals. Included were nearly 100

28

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

34

Last year 14 hospitals and laboratories requisitioned 1,890 animals from
the ASPCA. This is less than one percent of all the animals we handled.

RESEARCH PROTECTED SINCE 1867

There is a misconception that the Metcalf—Hatch- Law authorizes experi-
mentation. The fact is scientiﬁc research has been protected in New York State
since 1867, when the ﬁrst anti-cruelty law was passed. The enforcement of
that law, and every anti-cruelty law passed in New York State since, has been
limited by the following paragraph:

Nothing herein contained shall be construed to prohibit or interfere with any
properly conducted scientiﬁc tests, experiments or investigations, involving the use
of living animals, performed or conducted in laboratories or institutions, which are
approved for these purposes by the State Commissioner of Health. (See. 185, New
York State Penal Law)

But the Metcalf-Hatch Law does include this provision:

All animals shall be kindly and humanely treated, properly fed and suitably
housed, and that commensurate with experimental needs and with the physiologic
function under study, all tests, experiments and investigations involving pain shall
be performed under adequate anesthesia.

LABORATORY INSPECTION

In July 1952, immediately after the Metcalf-Hatch Law went into effect,
the ASPCA sent its membership a bulletin called The ASPCA Story, in which
we expressed the following hope:

In the Metcalf-Hatch Law the Board of 'Managers of the ASPCA sees for the
ﬁrst time in the history of its long ﬁght for animal welfare, an opportunity for
unlimited and unscheduled inspection of experimental laboratories. This opens up
to its jurisdiction an entirely new and wider area in which to operate for the
protection of animals. And, since the law carries a misdemeanor clause, the Society
will be in a position to report any offense which is discovered to the Commissioner
of Health for proper action.

Not long after, that hope became a reality. As laboratories began to
requisition animals, the ASPCA requested inspection privileges. Our requests
were granted without hesitancy. The result is that ever since the Metcalf—
Hatch Law went into effect ASPCA veterinarians and special agents have
periodically (and without appointment) inspected all laboratories requisition-
ing animals from us. Last year we made a total of 74 unannounced inspections,
giving us an opportunity to examine 234,209 animals, 123 times the number
of animals requisitioned from us.

No experiment is performed without a complete step-by-step record to
which the ASPCA always has access. After each inspection the investigating
oﬂicer ﬁles a report on each laboratory, answering such questions as these:

0 Is the food given to the animals wholesome and in sufﬁcient quantity
for the type of animal and scientiﬁc test?
Are the quarters well ventilated?
Are the quarters or cages large enough so that each animal can stand,
sit and lie in a normal position, and turn around with ease?

° Does the laboratory or institution maintain records on allocated dogs
and cats?

0 Was anesthesia used, if applicable?

 

 

 




 

 

Evelyn L. Altmayer
Vincent Astor
Christopher R. Birkmeyer
Boris Brase

Lucille G. Burleigh
Florence M. Burnett
Nellie Schutt Conrad
Gertrude Corbitt
Lucretia Craig
Elizabeth Curtis
Beatrice de Coppet

 

  

Mary Sidell Bush Fund
Sarah Williams Coleman

Mr. Milton Aronauer
Miss Emily Behringer
Miss Gertrude Behringer
Miss Margaret Blossom

 

Katherine G. Donnellan
Bessie Mae Failing
Mary A. Fiebig

Julia Giles

Francis N. Gilreath
Lola Rose Herk

Bertha Townsend Marsh
Frances Helen Meyer
Josephine Moos
Florence Belding Nuchols
Gertrude K. Pedersen

      

Nancy Sayles Day Foundation
Elsie Z. Graham

Miss Sydney F. Butler
Miss Olive Cowenhoven
Mrs. Geraldine R. Dodge
Miss Alma J orgensen

Please remember the ASPCA in your Will

 

 

New York, N. Y., the sum of

Virginia F. Price
Catherine M. Reichert
Penelope P. Rollins
Cecile A. Sawyer

Else F. Schlemmer

Edith M. Shepard
Charlotte E. Thiele

Mary Von Alen Thompson
May Elliott Van Bokkelen
Walter Weineck

Sylvia A. H. G. Wilks

Poodle Obedience Club of
Greater New York

Mr. F. Bayard Rives
Mrs. Charles G. Stewart

I give and bequeath to The American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, a

New York charitable corporation having its principal office at 441 East 92nd Street,

 

.’, Ddhm.

4«1

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

YEARS OF

FOR FISCAL YEAR ENDING APRIL 30, 1960

 

SERVHjE NAME DEPARTMENT POSITION BEGAN
47 William Ryan .................. Manhattan .......... Garage Foreman ............... l uly 8, 1912
3‘, Mary Robbins Boland .......... Brooklyn ........... License Clerk ................ Mar. 31,1924
34 Agnes J. Riddell ................ Hospital ............ Chief Clerk .................. Nov. 30, 1925
33 James J. McKenna ............. Long Beach ......... Shelter Manager .............. July 12,1926
32 Frederick R. Grassick .......... Brooklyn ........... Mechanic .................... May 6,1927
32 John F. Joule ................. Brooklyn ........... Special Agent ................ Aug. 19, 1927
32 Henry F. Klebbe ............... Hospital ............ Attendant .................... Sept. 15, 1927
3] William Sims .................. Hospital ............ Kennel Foreman .............. Oct. 15, 1928
31 R. W. Allen .................... Accounting ......... Cashier and Asst. Treasurer. . . Feb. 18, 1929
31 Robert B. Ferris ............... Queens ............. District Manager ............. Apr. 8, 1929
30 N. Michael Bromley ............ Bronx .............. District Manager ............. June 9,1929
30 R. J. Mulligan .................. Bronx .............. Special Agent ................ Nov. 16, 1929
30 Alfred Werthmiller ............. Brooklyn ........... License Ofﬁcer ............... Dec. 29, 1929
29 Henry Koppelmann ........... Manhattan .......... Mechanic .................... Jan. 16, 1931
23 Frederick L. Kusterbeck ........ Queens ............. Attendant .................... Nov. 169 1931
26 Patrick J. Sutton . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Manhattan .......... Attendant .................... June 18, 1933
26 James T. Dibble ................ Queens ............. License Ofﬁcer ............... Oct. 20, 1933
25 Alfred J. D’Alessio ............. Manhattan .......... Special Agent ................ Apr. 16, 1935
24 Thomas A. Fegan .............. Hospital ............ Business Manager ............. Sept. 14, 1935
24. Thomas C. Bishop ............. Queens ............. Kennelman ................... Sept. 16,1935
24 Robert Manson ................. Manhattan .......... Shelter Foreman .............. Feb. 39 1936
24. Francis Melvin ................. Manhattan .......... District Manager ............. Feb. 24, 1936
24. Walter L. Hollinde ............. Richmond .......... District Manager ............. June 16, 1936
23 Charles W. Woodford .......... Bronx .............. License Clerk ................ Oct. 16, 1936
23 Harry J. Connolly .............. Brooklyn ............ District Manager ............. Dec. 1, 1936
23 Thomas J. Murphy ............. Brooklyn ............ Shelter Foreman .............. Dec. 1, 1936
22 Arthur L. Amundsen ........... Manhattan .......... Director of Operations ........ May 1, 1937
22 Walter F. Taylor ............... Richmond ........... Shelter Foreman .............. May 3, 1937
22 Edgar M. Smith ................ Manhattan .......... Purchasing Agent ............. June 9, 1937
22 Vincent J. Patterson ............ Glen Cove .......... Shelter Manager .............. Apr. 1, 1938
2] John Stitzel .................... Brooklyn ............ Special Agent ................ Apr. 1, 1939
20 Thomas L. Regan ............... Manhattan .......... Special Agent ................ July 1, 1939
20 Robert P. Hammatt ............ Brooklyn ............ Special Agent ................ Nov. 24, 1939
19 John J. Kindya ................. Manhattan .......... Custodian .................... Oct. 16, 1940
18 Paul Pisarik .................... Manhattan .......... Utility Man .................. June 16, 1941
‘18 Joseph C. Schlesinger .......... Manhattan .......... Special Agent ................ Sept. 16, 1941
18 Thomas J. Morton .............. Manhattan .......... Chauffeur .................... Nov. 28, 1941
.17 John C. Manck ................. Brooklyn ............ License Ofﬁcer ............... May 11, 1942
17 Louis C. Baer .................. Manhattan .......... Shelter Clerk ................. Nov. 1, 1942
17 Charles J. Klingenbeck ......... Queens ............. Chauffeur .................... Nov. 16, 1942
17 Edward J. Dillon ............... Manhattan .......... Chauffeur .................... Mar. 16, 1943
17 Christopher W. Kempen ....... Queens ............. Chauffeur .................... Apr. 26,1943
16 Arthur G. Thornton ............ Bronx .............. Chauffeur .................... July 169 1943
16 Arthur Richardson ............. Brooklyn ............ Kennelman ................... Oct. 16, 1943
16 Albert A. Hettrick .............. Richmond ........... Attendant .................... Nov. 1, 1943
15 Winifred C. Sullivan ........... Brooklyn ............ Shelter Clerk ................. Oct. 18,1944
15 James J. Whalen ............... Queens ............. Night Kennelman ............. Dec. 4, 1944
14 Fred W. Smith ................. Brooklyn ............ Attendant .................... July 23, 1945
[4 Arthur T. Goebler .............. Queens ............. Chauffeur. . . . . . . . . . _. ......... Aug. 22, 1945
'4 George F. Donnelly ............. Queens ............. License Ofﬁcer ............... Feb. 1, 1946
I4 Willlam R. Prlce ............... Bronx .............. License Ofﬁcer ............... Feb. 1, 1946

 

 




PRODUCTS AND SERVICES

 

 

 

ANIMAL PHOTOGRAPHERS DOG KENNELS
' ”" PORTRAITS 0F PETS
ngmgggw IRADELL KENNELS
BLACK AND WHITE Breeders and Importers
0
BY ALEX FINEST TYPES OF SKYE TERRIERS ALso TOY POODLES
MURRAY HILL 7'4700 Mrs. N. Clarkson E2”,DJrS.”-KY TERRIERS 1°."ny J. Keyes
A N Y T I M E RidgegzlgfrConn. ldlewoirdagse-gdoo
Walter c. Foster. handler

 

 

 

 

 

 

CAT BOX LITTER

 

KATGO LITTER FOR

CAT BOXES
Has the added instant deodorizer
Pleasant CEDAR aroma. Dries instantly

Eggtzlgglilsz‘anfCiSposal problem. GERMAN SHEPHERDS OF QUALITY

AI all leading PeIaﬂd departmentstores. Good Bone Structure, Good Temperament, Con-
NATIONAL DISPLAY MATERIALS formity and Coat, for Show or Obedience.
BROOKLYN 11. N. Y. EV 8-7510

 

 

 

 

Boarding and Training”

WILLANA-HENKEI. KENNELS

WAGNER BROS. FEED CORP. ‘ MMoM 7

Importers and Distributors

DOG & CAT FOOD

 

 

 

 

1160 MYRTLE AVE. BROOKLYN 21. N. Y.
GLenmore 5-2719 DOG TRAINING

 

 

 

 

GIFTS

 

CANINE COLLEGE

 

 

 

  

CANINE CLASSICS BRAEIELDS TRAINING — TRIVIMING — SUPPLIES
. . V .. BOARDING
v . Cuff Links $7.50 ,
, - ' Tie Bars $5 New York Office Conn. OffIce
Ladies P_ins $5 449 E. 86th ST. WEST REDDING. CONN.
Lapel Plns $5 TRafaIgar 6-24I7 WEbster 8-2l24
Charm $3.50
Tie Tack $5
Check or Money Order
Postpaid

BEAUTIFULLY SCULPTU RED HEADS

Three-dimensional, 24K, 4-way
plate hand polished.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

Denim aprons striped background; double 8 in PET SUPPLIES
fold of harmontizing callor —$4035e gt I: pojckets
your avorIe ree — . 05 pm .
MAE KENT KEEP YOUR PETS
Dept. AP—67 W. NECK RD., HUNTINGTON, N. Y. FREE OF FLEAS
Creators and Manufacturers . . . Copyrighted TICKSI MITES. ETC. SPRAY THEM WITH
TROPICAL FISH M I T - E - K I I.
HINTON & CO.. INC.
A must for 67 MURRAY ST.. NEW YORK CITY
Aquarium
Enthusiasts! _ ‘
IN COLOR! TROPICAL FISH FOOD
come" Anniversary PROTECT THE HEALTH AND WELL BEING
ThTRIII’fICAL lI'Z‘ISHl IIIINDPPUII l0fATALOIi 0.: YOUR pETS WITH '
m -
fuITy IITTIS'I‘ESI’ZS eine nsaetITrcallogoﬁars.rcTT|li:abo-gaée TISIIdl- LONGLIFE®
book is an encyclopedia of tropical fish, breeding. AQUARIUM FISH FOODS AND REMEDIES
care, do-it-yourself, etc., etc. Only 50¢ L l‘f F. h F d P d 'I‘
On I 8 IS 00 r0 "C S
AQUARIUM STOCK COMPANY, INC. 707 N9 . .
3] Warren St.. N. Y. 7. N. Y. ew York Ave. UnIon CIty. N. J.

 

 

 

 

56

 

 




 

° Was post-operative care given animals equivalent to that rendered

human beings following an operation?

Typical infractions, when they occurred, were found to be: cages too
small, broken feeding utensils, temperature too hot or too cold, animals wetted
when cages were cleaned. Complaints were discussed with management and
all were corrected immediately or over an allotted period of time.

When our investigation program ﬁrst began, the mos-t serious problem
was the indifferent or careless attitude of attendants toward the animals in
their care. We called such situations to the attention of the doctors themselves,
because we realized that the success or failure of a doctor’s experiment
depended on the understanding of the attendants.

As a result several institutions have given training courses to teach ”their
attendants to be more humane. Others have employed veterinary consultants
full-time or part-time to see that all animals are properly cared for with the
most advanced methods known to human or veterinary medicine.

An ASPCA veterinarian, who has done a great deal of inspection work,
made this comment after an inspection:

No animal is brought to the operating table without previous anesthetization.
Following an experiment performed for acute non-recovery studies, the animal is
not allowed to regain consciousness, but is given a further dose of anesthesia. Where
post-operative observation is the point of the experiment, an animal is given the
most advanced medical care. When it has recovered it is either given out for
adoption or placed on a farm for the remainder of its life.

ANIMAL WELFARE LEGISLATION

he ASPCA, the humane organization responsible for the country’s

Tﬁrst anti-cruelty law passed in 1867, is still ﬁghting for animal
protective legislation. During the past few years we have concentrated on
compulSory humane slaughter laws for food animals.

Such legislation was dreamed of as far back as the 1880’s when awards
were originally offered for the perfection of humane slaughtering methods
which would be acceptable to meat packers. In Europe and elsewhere certain
systems were in use as early as 1873, but the American Meat Institute
frowned on them.

Then in the early 1950’s meat packer George A. Hormel adopted a
process for anesthetizing hogs before slaughter. The hogs were carried
through a tunnel ﬁlled with carbon dioxide which rendered them unconscious

in seconds. This was the ﬁrst active step in introducing humane slaughter
to this country.

THE JAMES HOPKINS AWARD

Recognizing the beginning of a trend, the ASPCA in 1953 presented
Hormel with the James Hopkins Award, consisting of a sterling silver plaque.
This honor was made possible by a trust fund left to the Society by the late
James Hopkins, who designated that it be used speciﬁcally to recognize out-
standing improvements in humane slaughter methods.

The beneﬁts of the new carbon dioxide method, as attested to by Hormel,
and others who later adopted the “sleep tunnel,” proved to be an inspiration

35

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

; FIGURESBEHIND ~ THE FACTS

 

 

 

 

 

 

FOR THE YEAR MAY 1, 1959 TO APRIL 30, 1960
TOTAL SERVICES RENDERED
Animals handled ...................................................................
Animals handled in shelters ........................................................
Animals handled at Animalport, N. Y. International Airport ........................
Animals adopted ....................................................................
Animals examined or held for observation in bite cases by

Department of Health at shelters ................................................
Animals treated in Hospital and Clinic .................
Inspections by agents ...............................................................
Animals involved in these inspections ...............................................
Alleged cruelty cases investigated ...................................................
Dogs licensed in New York City .....................................................
Children, young people, and adults instructed in humane education .................
SHELTER SERVICES
Animals Received Dogs Cats Others'
In Shelters April 30, 1959 ..................... 550 200 19
Received for home adoption ................... 17,483 10,330 1,217
Collected from streets? ...... representing 9,013 2,135 457
Unwanted animals called for. 86,236 16,752 37,054 1,161
Lost and abandoned3 ....... requests 11,930 8,212 1,355
Delivered to shelters by owners ................ 17,060 28,999 1,948

Totals .................................. 72,788 86,930 6,157
Animals Released
Restored to owners ........................... 5,645 291 213
Requisitioned by laboratories ................... 1,580 310
Adopted ..................................... 14,016 5,031 969
Released to freedom .......................... -— — 142
Released to Medical Stray Ward ............... 1,365 392- 1,354
Bite cases released to Dept. of Halth ........... 609 125 34
Died or humanely destroyed“ .................. 49,063 80,546 3,429
In shelters April 30, 1960 ...................... 510 235 16

Totals .................................. 72,788 86,930 6,157
Bite cases held in ASPCA isolation wards for observation by Dept. of Health ................
Days of observation involved ...........................................................
EDUCATIONAL ACTIVITIES
Children and adults attending education classes .........................................
Teachers and scout leaders observing demonstrations .....................................
Schools and other organizations using the Society’s visual aids ............................
Children and adults taught through use of these visual aids ...............................
Pieces of educational literature distributed ..............................................
Pet and animal calendars distributed ..................................................
Public lectures, demonstrations, and discussions on television and radio ....................
Pet shows sponsored or assisted ........................................................
Dog obedience training courses given ..................................................
People registered for dog obedience training courses .....................................
Attendance at Junior Jamboree ........................................................

42

 

257,842
165,875
27,515
20,016

31,905
32,547
11,124
2,810,190
5,454
263,994
30,140

Total

769
29,030
11,605
54,967
21,497
48,007

165,875

 

6,149
1,890
20,016
142
3,111
768
133,038
761

165,875

6,091
46,199

13,245
950
310

14,595

53,000

13,000

40
56
1 1
1,350
1,600

 




 

YEARS OF

 

SERVICE NAME DEPARTMENT POSITION BEGAN
13 James S. Pereda ................ Manhattan .......... Asst. to Dist. Manager ........ July 16. 1946
3 Peter Kulek .................... Manhattan .......... Asst. Utility Man ............. Oct. 16, 1946
13 John Rheinheimer ............. Brooklyn ............ Chauffeur .................... Nov. 1, 1946
13 William A. Dreizler ............. Bronx .............. Attendant .................... Nov. 6, 1946
12 Janice Paprin Lemberger ....... Public Relations ..... Ed., Animal Protection ........ June 3, 1947
12 George H. Tuscher ............. Humane Work ...... Dir. of Humane Work ......... July 1, 1947
12 Thomas V. Sheehan ............ Manhattan .......... Attendant .................... Oct. 16, 1947
12 James J. O’Keefe ............... Richmond ........... Chauffeur .................... Dec. 1, 1947
12 Dorothy G. Boyd ............... Hospital ............ Clerk ........................ Apr. 1, 1948
1] Morris W. Thomas ............. Brooklyn ............ Chauffeur ..................... A ug. 1, 1948
1 ] Lillian J. Galvin ................ Brooklyn ............ Asst. License Clerk ........... Aug. 1, 1948
1] Edna L. Meudt ................. Queens ............. License Clerk ................ Aug. 16, 1948
1] Andrew Sherbo ................. Manhattan .......... Attendant .................... Mar. 22, 1949
10 Gaetano T. Manfre ............. Brooklyn ............ License Officer ............... Mar. 20, 1950
‘|() Charles R. Adams .............. Hospital ............ Attendant .................... Apr. 13, 1950
9 Frank J. Michalek ............. Manhattan .......... License Officer ............... July 3, 1950
9 Calvin E. Klinger ............... Bronx .............. Shelter Foreman .............. July 19, 1950
1) Charles T. Milmerstadt ......... Queens ............. Asst. License Clerk ........... July 19, 1950
9 William Rhodes ................ Queens ............. Kennelman ................... Sept. 6, 1950
t) Edna B. Jordan ................ Manhattan .......... Telephone Operator ........... Dec. 20, 1950
9 Norman H. Johnson ............ Hospital ............ Veterinarian .................. J an. 15, 1951
9 Norman H. Halpern ............ Brooklyn ............ Kennelman ................... Feb. 19, 1951
8 Jack B. DeLese ................. Brooklyn ............ Chauffeur .................... May 25, 1951
8 Calvin R. Benﬁeld ............. Manhattan .......... Chauffeur .................... June 7, 1951
8 Helen E. Hoey ................. Brooklyn ............ Asst. to Dist. Manager ........ Aug. 14, 1951
8 June Eliot ...................... Public Relations ..... Director, Public Relations ..... Aug. 16, 1951
8 Frances M. Labuda ............. Public Relations ..... Secretary .................... Aug. 16, 1951
8 Victor E. Balluff ............... Brooklyn ............ Special Agent ................ Sept. 10, 1951
8 Richard Silverman ............. Accounting .......... Bookkeeper .................. Feb. 27, 1952
8 James J. Rosenthal ............. Brooklyn ............ Chauffeur .................... Apr. 28, 1952
7 Donald J. Schroeder ............ Accounting .......... Auditor ...................... May 26, 1952
7 Rose D. Wolfman .............. Manhattan .......... License Clerk ................ Sept. 3, 1952
7 Harriet Altman ................. Public Relations ..... Clerk ........................ Oct. 29, 1952
7 Bronislaw Kawaczynski ........ Manhattan .......... Janitor ...................... Jan. 26, 1953
7 Frank V. Manza ................ Manhattan .......... Chauffeur .................... Feb. 18, 1953
6 Walter J. Mahoney ............. Bronx .............. License Officer ............... May 4, 1953
() Elliott A. Epstein ............... Brooklyn ............ License Ofﬁcer ............... May 18, 1953
6 John Ligaspi ................... Queens ............. Shelter Foreman .............. June 24, 1953
6 Albert Murray, Jr. .............. Queens ............. Kennelman ................... July 22, 1953
(, James Main .................... Queens ............. Kennelman ................... Jan. 20, 1954
(, George J. Devlin ............... Bronx .............. Chauffeur .................... Apr. 7, 1954
5 Mary C. Trost .................. Brooklyn ............ Typist ........................ J une 30, 1954
5 John E. Whitehead ............. Hospital ............ Chief of Staff ................ July 12, 1954
5 Diana Henley .................. Education ........... Dir. of Education ............. Oct. 11, 1954
5 Esther Ruby .................... Hospital ............ Clerk ........................ Oct. 13, 1954
5 Leon Abrevaya ................. Hospital ............ Veterinarian .................. Oct. 27, 1954
5 Alfred Kommel ................ Manhattan .......... Kennelman ................... Nov. 3, 1954
5 Paul Nickolan .................. Manhattan .......... Kennelman ................... Nov. 3, 1954
5 Edward Koll .................... Manhattan .......... Chauffeur .................... Nov. 17, 1954
5 Walter Meyer .................. Hospital ............ Porter ....................... Jan. 24, 1955
5 Rose M. Lopez ................. Queens ............. Telephone Operator ........... Mar. 2, 1955
5 Frederick H. Krebs ............. Queens ............. License Officer ............... Apr. 13, 1955

 




 

 

by Joyce R. Wilson

 

we need the ASPCA
' the ASPCA needs you

Your gift to the ASPCA will help support these services which depend on contributions:
0 Hospital care for charity patients 0 Rescue of trapped animals

Adoption service Care of pets whose owners are in institutions

0
Cruelty investigations and inspections . Horse watering
0

Pick up and care of stray animals Legislative activities

please mail your gift now

 

 




