 

  
 
 

  

Evelyn and Patricia
Bates ioin papier maché

clown in welcoming guests.
Twins were members of the
debutante committee.

     
    
   
 
 
  
 
 
 

Brig. Gen. Alfred G. Tuckerman
waltzes Mrs. Malcolm W. Brady.

Top left photo by Budd
Others by Irwin Dribben

 

Carey Adams and Peter Hoguet 9
pause in corridor to admire the animal cutouts.

  

 




 
 
  
 
 
  
  
   
 
 
  
     

  
     
  

   
 

'§

////
m ﬁsuw

I %
presents

/\ and the TRAMP

Walt Disney’s “LADY AND THE TRAMP”
is a delightful cartoon about dogs based
on a book by King Features editor Ward
Greene. Stars are Lady, a pretty little

   
   
 

cocker spaniel, and Tramp, a roguish,
freedom-loving mutt. This ﬁrst all-cartoon
feature in Cinemascope will be released
in July. Don’t miss it.

I
'l:llllllll;['1"1"

  
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   

..... .I
II
lliiiillllllll

Lady and friends Jock and Trusty meet
Tramp. who wears no man's collar.

Lady runs away from home when
family muzzles her. Tramp takes her to

zoo where beaver gnaws off muzzle. ‘
During night on the town Tramp treats I
Lady to spaghetti dinner. l
Unlicensed and unowned Tramp awaits 1‘
death. He's reprieved in nick of time ‘
when Lady's family adopts him.

 

 




 

  
  

Above and beyond the call . . .

ASPCA’s Medal of Honor for outstanding bravery was
awarded six times during the past few months. The recipi-
ents included a Navy captain, a chow terrier, a dog named
Salty Sam, a Brooklyn truck driver, a red and brown fox

 
 
  

 

In a dual ceremony aboard the U. S. S.
Wrangell at the New York Naval Shipyard
the. ﬁrst two medals went to Capt. George
deMetropolis and to Salty Sam who ﬁgured
in a daring sea rescue a year ago.

During a training mission in North Atlan—
tic waters the Wrangell, a Navy auxiliary
ship, came upon a derelict ﬁshing boat spun
and tossed by a gale off the coast of Portugal.

Capt. deMetropolis, skipper of the Navy
ship, boarded the derelict and found an
emaciated dog standing guard over his dead
master. The remainder of the mystery crew
were never found.

Navy regulations forbade taking the dog
on the Wrangell, so the ﬁshing boat was
taken in tow and food and water put aboard

John Kruh, Brooklyn Eagle

Salty Sam and
Capt. George deMetropolis

terrier, and Corky, a regal boxer.

the abandoned ship for the dog. The tow did
. . the ﬁshing boat sank and
heavy waves washed the dog into the water.

It was then Capt. deMetropolis made his
decision. He could not bear to watch the
struggle of the lone survivor battling a tough
sea. He resolved to take him aboard regard-
less of regulations. The Wrangell was brought
close to the dog, and at the risk of being
washed overboard themselves, crew members
leaned far over the rail for 'hours until one

not last long .

 

 

 

 
   
 
 

 
   

 




 

 

 

 

 

SYDNEY H. COLEMAN

3111 ﬂlllvmnriam

Elbe entire humane movement is mourning the death of Sydney H. Coleman.

ASPCA s retired executive vice- president a humane leader for almost 50 years,
died at his winter home in Hollywood, Florida March 23, at the age of 69.

From the time he graduated from Syracuse University in 1910, right up to his
death, Mr. Coleman devoted his life to animals. He was loved and respected in his
dealings with people, but he did not hesitate to declare war against humans who
abused dogs, cats, horses or monkeys.

Mr. Coleman insisted: “You cannot have a race interested in the welfare of
humans that is heedless to the suffering and needs of animals.”

Mr. Colemanabegan his career with the ErieCounty SPCA as assistant to the
president. In 1913 he became general manager of the American Humane Association
and later served as its president from 1927 until 1946.

From 1930 to 1951 Mr. Coleman was executive vice-president of the ASPCA,

where he made some of his greatest contributions to the humane movement.

Recognized internationally, he was an honorary vice-president of the SPCA
of England, and was active in the Fondouk, humane society of Morocco, North
Africa. As elder statesman and advisor his counsel was sought by those engaged in
anti-cruelty work throughout the world.

The memory of this man who exempliﬁed the highest ideals of humaneness and
devotion, to his cause remains to inspire others. We at the ASPCA, who knew him
perhaps best of all, share the sorrow with his wife, Sarah Williams Coleman, his

daughter, Mrs. Ruth Hill and his son, James R. Coleman.

23

 




 

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    

caught the dog by the collar as he was
lifted alongside the ship by a huge wave.

By a special Navy authorization the
Wrangell has kept the dog, dubbed Salty
Sam by the ship’s company of 13 officers
and 220 men. »

For his bravery in guarding his master’s
lifeless body Salty Sam received ASPCA’s
bronze award. Capt. deMetropolis was simi-
larly decorated for breaking a Navy regula-
tion rather than allowing the animal to
perish.

When questioned as to why 'he took so
much pains to save the dog, Capt. deMetrop-
olis replied: “It’s a living thing and my con-
science wouldn’t let me leave it behind.”

Prince Foiled Stick-up

Prince, a seven-year-old dog, part brave
chow and the rest brave terrier, received
his medal for chasing a stick-up man out of
his owner’s tailor shop. When the man en-
tered the shop of Peter Generalli and de-
manded his money Prince dashed from a
rear room, knocked the robber down, then

chased him for a block.

Corky Bottled Up Two Thugs

Another possible hold-up was foiled by a
20-month-old boxer named Corky who cor-
nered two would-be robbers in his owner’s
liquor store and held them at bay until two
cops captured them.

Corky, owned by Harry Topal, was rest-
ing on the floor of the shop when the sus-
picious-looking men walked in. Responding
to a signal from Mr. Topal, the dog bounded,
growling, to his feet and blocked the door.
The callers were too frightened to move.
Sure enough, two patrolmen who had tailed
the men walked in and, searching the men,
found a gun on one and a knife on the other.

Skippy Sounded Fire Warning

Skippy, the dog with the ﬁre-alarm bark,
was decorated for sounding the warning

     

Long Island Press

Skippy is awarded medal
by Robert B. Ferris. Queens
District Manager. Fireman

Thomas F. Maher holds the dog.

when a ﬁre started at 1 a.m. in a rooming
house next door. Skippy smelled the smoke
and barked and barked until his owner
Mrs. Bernard Dononhue awakened. She
looked out of the kitchen window, saw the
flames and called the Fire Department. The
red and brown brown fox terrier was cred-
ited with saving the lives of 12 persons.

Driver Avoided Hitting Dog

Another award went to Louis Marbach,
the Brooklyn truck driver who narrowly
escaped death to avoid hitting a mongrel
stray dog. One morning when Mr. Marbach
was rolling along Church Avenue, Brooklyn,
a brown and white stray dog suddenly ap-
peared in his path. Swerving to avoid hitting
the animal, his huge truck mounted. the curb
and was crushed between a trolley pole and
a billboard.

Mr. Marbach landed in Kings County
Hospital, where he was treated for injuries
to his nose, legs and hands. The truck, which
the hero and his brother-in-law used for
furniture moving, was badly damaged. There
were three more payments due on it before
they could call it their own. Repair bills
added up to $1000. But if confronted with
the same situation, the driver says he would
do it again.




ANIMAL PROTECTION

Published three times yearly by

The American Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

Founded and Incorporated 1866

Vol. 9, No. 1
Editorial Ofﬁce: 30 East 60th Street

Spring 1955

Editor, JANICE PAPRIN

 

OFFICERS . ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICES

 

~ HUGH E. PAINE, President

WILLIAM F. MORGAN, Vice-President
JAMES H. RIPLEY, Vice-President

THOMAS D. HUGHES, Vice-President
WILLIAM A. MEYERHOFF, Treasurer
WILLIAM L. BURTON, Secretary

LOUIS REYNAL, Assistant Secretary
WARREN W. MCSPADDEN, Assistant Treasurer

BOARD OF MANAGERS

JOHN D. BEALS, JR.
WILLIAM E. BUCKLEY
SYDNEY H. COLEMAN
ROBERT L. JONES
RICHARD C. KETTLES, JR.
JOSE A. MACHADO, JR.
ALASTAIR B. MARTIN
JOSEPH B. MURRAY

W. ROSS PROCTOR
WILLIAM A. ROCKEFELLER
WILLIAM ROCKEFELLER
GEORGE B. WAGSTAEF

Managers Emeritus
F. AMBROSE CLARK
HENRY J. FISHER
SAMUEL R. MILBANK

 

 

COVER PICTURE

More than 1700 cats have been
adopted since our unique colony
cat ward Opened last July. Here is
one happy boy and the cat Of
his choice.

Photo by Nat Fein

 

 

 

TRafalgar 6-7700
441 East 92nd St., New York 28, N. Y. (York Ave.)

WARREN W. MCSPADDEN, General Manager

ARTHUR L. AMUNDSEN, Assistant General Manager

GEORGE H. TUSCHER, Director of Humane Work

GERTRUDE E. JOHNSON, Secretary to Committees

THACHER, PROFFITT, PRIZER, CRAWLEY & WOOD,

Attorney and Counsel

HOSPITAL AND CLINIC FOR ANIMALS .
441 East 92nd St., New York 28, N. Y.

RAYMOND J. GARBUTT, D.V.M., Chief Veterinarian
THOMAS A. FEGAN, Business Manager

TRafalgar 6-7700

EDUCATION DEPARTMENT TRafalgar 6-7700, Ext. 31
441 East 92nd St., New York 28, N. Y. (3rd Floor)
MARY 'PRISCILLA KEYES, Director of Education

PUBLIC RELATIONS DEPARTMENT . . . . PLaza 5-1650
30 East 60th St., New York 22, N. Y.
JUNE ELIOT, Director

MANHATTAN SHELTER .
441 East 92nd St., New York 28, N. Y.
FRANCIS MELVIN, District Manager

TRafalgar 6-7700

BROOKLYN OFFICE AND SHELTER . . . TRiangle 5-9580

233 Butler St., Brooklyn 17, N. Y.
(between Nevins and Bond Streets)

CHARLES R. WADSLEY, District Manager

BRONX OFFICE AND SHELTER , . . . . LUdlow 3-2880
3960 Park Ave. (173rd St.), Bronx, N. Y. 57, N. Y.
N. MICHAEL BROMLEY, District Manager

QUEENS OFFICE AND SHELTER . . . . REpublic 9-4041
94-27 158th St., Jamaica 33, L. 1.
ROBERT B. FERRIS, District Manager

RICHMOND OFFICE AND SHELTER GIbraltar 7-0122
4 Willow Ave., Rosebank, S. I. 5, N. Y.

WALTER L. HOLLINDE, District Manager

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

ASPCA

Index

Editorial: Bulltight in New YOrk City? .
Lights! Camera! Action .

Kayt Canines: Hobby Becomes
Successful Business . .

The Odd Case of the

Common Cowloird. .

Above and Beyond the Call . .
Animal Kingdom Ball . . . . . . . 8
The Common Denominator . . . . . 10
Junior Jamboree Pet Show . . . . . H
An Ounce ot ASPCA Prevention! . . . 12
Animal Antics . . . . . . . . . 14
Our Hospital Needs . . . . . . . 16
The Doctor Listens . . . . . . . . 17
Letters . . . . . . . . . . 18
A Cinderella Story. . . . . . . . 19
Lady and the Tramp . . . . 20
In Memoriam — Sydney H. Coleman . . 23
Cortisone Saves Life of

War Hero German Shepherd . . . 24
No Home To Go To . . Inside Back Cover

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty

Lerman Printing Co., BI.Y.C.

 




 

 

 

/ﬁ‘l,|:‘il|| ‘ A
v I ylf‘: AIIJ.

Auk») u v. .
.r x a f. V. . . .
,3, an
. )5» #

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

Photo by Maurice Franz

The Common
Denominator

 

George and Helen Papashvily with Acavar

WHEN George and Helen Papashvily de-

cided to marry many years ago their
friends warned them against it. Their lang-
uage, nationality, religion, education and
cultural background were different. But
they did have one thing in common. Both
loved dogs —~ from earliest infancy each had
been protected, disciplined, supervised and
instructed by beloved dogs.

What they call, “the common denomin-
ator” has since served more than just to
hold their marriage tog-ether. As amateur
breeders the Papashvilys have brought more

than 200 German Shepherd puppies into the.

world and have written several books.

Their ﬁrst book “Anything Can Happen”
became a best-seller in 1945, was translated
into 15 languages and became a notable
ﬁlm in 1952.

More recently they wrote “Thanks to
Noah,” a book about all their animal
friends, especially about their individual
dogs Keddena, Murka, Kitri, FOX and their
current master, Acavar. “Like every dOg we
ever owned,” they say, “he is our favorite.”

What more perfect pair to author a gen-
eral book about dogs? And that’s just what
they’ve done in their latest work “Dogs and
People.” They trace the origin of the dog
from his earliest companionship with man
to his present status as man’s best friend
and foil. They describe his place in legend,
literature and art, and in an informal way
they include advice on feeding, breeding,

10

buying, training and showing. A remarkable
mixture of dog lore, information and a hu-
morous appreciation of man’s best friend
emerges.

“What uncivilized humanity really needs,”
wrote one book reviewer, “is a book by some
bright dog on the care, training and breed-
ing of better-bred humans.” Lacking such
a volume, he recommends the next best thing,
the Papashvilys’ “Dogs and People.” One
secret of their warmth and charm as writers
and human beings, he believes, is that they
have been trained in acute perception, gen-
tleness, loyalty and sensitivity by their ex-
ception-a1 dogs.

And the Papashvilys would be the ﬁrst
to agree they’ve had only the best teachers.

The couple, who had always loved and
owned German Shepherds, bred their ﬁrst:
litter for sale in the winter of 1936. On the
ﬁrst Sunday after their advertisement hit the
papers a snowstorm threatened. They were
unknown, lived deep in the country on a
dirt road, had no telephone.

“With that special kind of Good Luck
which Fate with inﬁnite pity reserves for
Total Ignorance, we sold the whole litter
in one afternoon and had prospects for the
next two.”

They gave most of the credit for their
success to their dog Murka, mother and
grandmother of their puppies and the ken-
nel’s star salesman, who possessed “loads of

(Continued on Page 24)

 

 

 




 

THE D OR llSTEN-

 

 

 

PARAKEETS

By LEON ABREVAYA. D.V.M.
ASPCA Hospital and Clinic
Originated in Australia

The colorful, playful parakeet has become
one of the country’s most popular pets.
Originally from Australia, the birds were
later raised in England and Japan, where
some of the most beautifully colored speci-
mens are now bred.

Although green and white in their natural
state, genetics and special feeding have pro-
duced nearly 50 different color variations
ranging through blues, purples, grays, aquas
and yellows.

Choose a Young, Healthy Bird

A young bird has tiny black stripes on
the forehead which disappear in several
months, turning into a solid-colored cap.
The breastbone is pliable.

A healthy bird sits erect, is alert, plump
and has smooth feathers. The wing should
be full of feathers. The anal pore and nos-
trils should be dry, indicating there is no
diarrhea or respiratory ailment. A healthy
bird may live 10 to 12 years.

Clean Cage important

Place the cage in a well-lighted, airy
room, four or five feet above the floor and
away from drafts or cross currents. The.
kitchen is a bad spot. Cooking vapors and
gas may poison or suffocate the pet.

Clean the bottom of the cage daily and
sprinkle a little grit or sand for a digestive
aid. Clean perches, water and feeding dishes
daily. Never place perches directly above
water or feeding dishes.

Feed Clean Fresh Seed
The main food item is seed which should
be clean, fresh —— never musty or wormy.

Once a week a piece of lettuce or apple
(washed ﬁrst, then wiped) will aid elimina-
tion. A daily drop of vifort or other vitamin
D tonic in food or water will make up for
indoor pet’s lack of sunshine.

Parakeets have what is called marked
metabolism, which means they must eat all
the time. Therefore, food cups should always
be kept full. Don’t be fooled by what seems
like a full dish at the end of the day. Unlike
other fowl, parakeets break the seeds, eating
the kernel and leaving the husk.

Parakeets Don’t Like Baths

Most parakeets don’t like baths. Substitute
a liquid spray of warm water once or twice
a week. When claws become long cut them
with a manicuring scissors, avoiding the
vein. Lack of calcium may cause the beak
to become overgrown. Prevent this by hang-
ing a cuttlebone in the cage for nibbling.

Moulting

All healthy birds lose their feathers and
acquire new ones every year. Moulting be-
gins in June and lasts from three to six
weeks. During the moulting period the bird’s
resistance becomes very low and it requires
more minerals and vitamins, particularly
vitamin A.

Breeding

The pale blue band across the beak in
young birds gradually becomes bright blue
if the bird is a male and rich brown or tan
in a female. Parakeets may breed at any
time of the year. An average pair may
raise 15 young in a year. They lay 6 to 8
eggs at a time, which hatch in 18 days.

Sick Birds

A. parakeet’s Vitality becomes lowered af-
ter exposure to drafts, cold temperatures or
sudden changes in temperature. Because of
a peculiar respiratory structure the birds
suffer from many bronchial and lung in-
fections.

Get your doctor’s advice when these symp-
toms occur: panting or labored breathing,
loose or hard droppings, ruffled feathers,
droopy and inflamed eyes, hoarseness or
loss of voice.

17

 

 




 

Julie. adopted from ASPCA,
watches her owner Katharine
Thompson of work.

KAYT CANINES:

HOBBY BECOMES SUCCESSFUL BUSINESS

1 ATHARlNE H. THOMPSON is one

woman who can call a fractured .leg
a piece of good luck. The truth is that an
accident ﬁve years ago started her in a
career that’s become so successful she now
ships her hand-painted plaster animals to
every state in the country and several foreign
lands.

One day in 1950 Mrs. Thompson was
leading her three dogs up a flight of icy
steps. She slipped and fell, fracturing her
leg so badly she was incapacitated for
months.

Naturally an active person, the restraint
made her irritable. In self-protection her
family suggested she take up a former
hobby ~— painting animal ﬁgures. She did
one of a friend’s pet, then another and
another. Her gifts to friends and relatives
were seen by their friends and acquaintances
who, in turn, demanded ﬁgures of their pets.
And to Mrs. Thompson’s amazement, they
were eager to pay for them. A fully-recovered
Katharine Thompson found herself in busi-
ness —— a business now known as Kayt
Canines, 23 West 8th Street, New York.

The talented artist does individualized
portrait ﬁgures of over 40 standard breeds,
at $15 a ﬁgure, including collar and lead.
She works from photographs and prefers to
see several shots which show all sides of the
dog. Of course she must know the sex, breed,

.l,

age and exact color and markings. Mrs.
Thompson prides herself on being able to
match any dog’s natural coloring by the
mixture of paints from a formula she devised.
It took her two years to perfect her water-
proof, fade-proof, chip-proof paint and
special ﬁnish.

Mrs. Thompson has done several hundred
ﬁgures, including just plain mutts as well as
standard breeds. While every order is a chal-
lenge, one in particular almost had her
stumped.

It came from Milwaukee, accompanied by
15 photos of what looked like a big sleek,
short-haired wolfhound. She later found out
the dog was a drahthaar, a German hunting
breed not yet recognized in this country.
Ti-midly she started with a shaggy wolf-
hound model, cut away the coat, poked in
here and rounded out there until she felt
the ﬁgure resembled the pictures. It must
have, for the purchaser has since ordered
two more.

An animal lover for years, the painter
surrounds herself with live pet dogs for
inspiration. Strangely enough, her current
favorite Julie, an ASPCA alumna, has never
been the subject for a ﬁgure.

“It’s like the shoemaker’s children all over
again,” says Mrs. Thompson. “I’m so busy
I can’t get around to doing my own dog.”

 
     
  
 

  




Junior Jamboree

Pet Show

Nearly 200 pets, including dogs,
cats, parakeets, goldﬁsh, turtles, trop-

 

ical ﬁsh and rabbits, competed in the
Junior Jamboree Pet Show held at the
Hempstead Armory in Hempstead,
Long Island.

Co-sponsored by the ASPCA and the
Island Federal Savings and Loan
Association, the show was open to
ASPCA Junior and Junior Group
Members and students from the New
Hyde Park, Uniondale and Hemp-

stead schools.

 

 

And she won 4 ribbons—Carole Nelson and Tabby

  

Carol Radzieiewski. 8. makes Cindy v- » - « ' ‘ . ,.
"sit" for judge Dorothy Bach Priscilla Buckley had the biggest goldfish

Patricia Whalen and
Jeanne Schnabel with
Puffy. their huge
angora rabbit

 

 




 

Cortisone Saves life of
War Hero German Shepherd

Cortisone, one of the miracle drugs,
proved to be a dog’s best friend to Arzew,
Brooklyn’s war hero German Shepherd who
came here on a Victory Ship from Africa
10 years ago.

Arzew was so crippled by arthritis when
he entered our hospital a few weeks ago
that it was feared he might never recover.
He was immediately given heat treatment
with the newly [acquired diathermy machine.
He also received cortisone, which works on
dogs as it works on humans —— sometimes
they respond and sometimes they don’t.

Well, Arzew responded, and recently he
was discharged from the hospital to the joy
of all the children in Flatbush.

Arzew had been acquired by Dr. David
Langsam, a former lieu-tenant colonel in the
Army Medical Corps when he went into
North Africa with the invasion forces in

1943.

In return for kindnesses, a British outﬁt
offered him a dog. Dr. Langsam chose
Arzew and named the dog for the North
African town where he was born. Arzew
became Ithe pet and morale-bosoter of Dr.
Langsam’s radar outﬁt and once saved a

 

World Telegram and Sun photo by Patumbo

Arzew undergoes diathermy
treatment. Machine was donated
by another dog named Stretch.

24

man who swam too far out into the channel.

When his master was transferred to a
hospital group, he couldn’t take the dog
along so he finally got a Victory Ship to
agree to carry him to his sister, Mrs. Michael
Schneiderman, in Brooklyn.

The handsome affectionate shepherd
quickly adapted to Flatbush. He loved the
children and they loved him. He was a legend
in the neighborhood.

“Before babies could talk,” said one
mother, “they’d say the name Arzew.”

Now 12-year-old Arzew is back with the
neighborhood children — perhaps not as
fast as he once was in chasing their balls,
but he’s back, thanks to a miracle drug.

 

The Common Denominator
(Continued from Page 10)

personality” which she turned on and off:
like a hydrant and directed with all the force
of a ﬁre hose.

Fifteen years ago after selling their 200th
puppy, all with Murka’s assitance, the couple
gave up breeding for sale. Now they live on
a farm near Quakertown, Pennsylvania,
where George combines his writing with
modern stone animal sculpture, some of it
exhibited at such museums as the Washing-
ton National Gallery and the Pennsylvania
Academy of Fine Arts.

There’s still a dog or two around the
farm though, and for lack of a better reason
why they (or anyone else) keep dogs the
Papashvilys declare:

.“Sometimes we think the only explanation
must be that dogs, like a cowlick, blue eyes,
or playing the piano by ear ‘run a family,9
carried by a special gene that may skip a
brother or sister or jump a generation ye-l:
keep cropping out.”

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

Mrs. Frederick R. Hanson
chooses one of toy animal
prizes donated by
Thomas E. Saxe, Jr.

Mrs. Gerard Beroset, winner of
two tickets to Switzerland via
Swissair. tries her luck at a
ring-toss booth. Mrs. Tim McOstrich
lends moral support.

 
 

ANIMAL
KINGDOM
HILL

[9 5B

 

A GAY circus motif highlighted the fifth Animal Kingdom
Ball held at the Hotel Pierre for the beneﬁt of ASPCA’s Adop-
tion Service Clinic. Lending a circus-like atmosphere were jolly
papier maché clowns from R. H. Macy and cages full of life-size
cut out animals designed by Dick Nell.

A midway offered several game booths with prizes donated
by Sports Illustrated, Remington Rand, Encore Cigarettes, Berg-
dorf Goodman, Hartz Mountain, F. R. Tripler and others. Merkel.
Inc. and Duvernoy 8: Sons, Inc. donated meat and bread products
for delectable hot hors d’oeuvres.

Mrs. Walter B. Devereux was chairman of the dinner dance.
Mrs. David A. Gimbel was junior committee chairman and Cary
Latimer was debutante committee chairman.

 




 

The Common Cowbird
(Continued from Page 5)

a warbler, a sparrow or a ﬂycatcher. Why
doesn’t it think that it is a warbler, a spar-
row or a ﬂycatcher? On reaching maturity
it doesn’t look in a mirror and recognize
that it is not of the family of its foster-
parents. Yet it unhesitatingly moves off to
join gathering ﬂocks of cowbirds and eventu-
ally ﬂies southward in such company in the
autumn migration. Never having seen them
before, how did it recognize other cowbirds
as its true kindred? By the voice? If so, that
thickens the plot and deepens the mystery.

If a young cowbird, raised from a cradle
by a yellow warbler, identiﬁes itself by ear
and joins other cowbirds because it recog-
nizes their language as its own, it is ﬂying
in the face of human learning. All humans
have approximately the same vocal equip-
ment, yet we speak a great variety of lan-
guages, depending upon where we are born
and how we are reared.

We speak English ﬂuently at an early age
simply because our parents, relatives and
household companions or neighbors spoke
that language to us or within our hearing
at an early age. Some of us may think that
Chinese, Russian or Arabic is a difﬁcult
language to learn, but Chinese, Russian and
Arabic children have no difficulty whatever
in learning it by ear. But such is. the inﬂu-
ence of environment that, with the same
vocal equipment, there are certain sounds
in foreign languages that bafﬂe us unless we
have learned them as children.

The Japanese have difﬁculty with our letter
“1” and the Chinese with our letter “r.” We
have considerable difﬁculty giving the proper
pronounciation of the French “u” and the
French are hard put to it to carry the English
“th” on the tips of their tongues. Our selected
cowbird hears the yellow warbler language
from its cradle days to maturity, never learns
to utter a syllable of it and ﬁnally goes off
gabbling ﬂuently in cowbird lingo without
any course of study whatever. Solve that
one if you can.

22

Bullﬁght in New York?
(Continued from Page I)

stead of the padding. It should be
noted here that padding is not used
in Portugal. Could it be that it is
suggested by International Presenta-
tions as a means of trying to evade
American anti-cruelty laws?

0 There is also the possibility that a
horse may be gored. The promoter
points out that the bull’s horns 'are
sheathed in padded leather. But an
accident is always possible. Suppose

a horn sheath came off? What
chance would the horse have?

0 To describe the power behind a
bull’s charge International Presenta-
tions’ press release says: “Steel-hard
horns propelled by a ton of muscle
under a sleek black hide, the bull
outclasses the lion in strength and
the race horse in‘speed over a short
distance.” A head-on collision be-
tween all this power and a horse is
too gruesome to contemplate.

0 The introduction of Portuguese bull-
ﬁghting into this country would let
down the strict barriers which Amer-
icans have always maintained against
bullﬁghting in any form. The pre-
sentation of the Portuguese tourada
is but the opening wedge. It could
quickly lead to the unspeakably
cruel Spanish bullﬁght in which
1,300 bulls and 6,000 horses are

killed annually in Spain alone.

To repeat, the ASPCA is unalterably op-
posed to bullﬁghting in any of its various
forms! We are laying our plans accordingly.
As soon as we learn whether International
Presentations is taking active steps to pur-
sue its announced intention to stage a bull-
ﬁght, and where, we will ask your help in
implementing our campaign against it.

WWW

General Manager

.._..__ ___r n _. _




1—4 __ -!—v

 

Lights I Camera! Action!
(Continued from Page 3)

if kept overtime. He’s a ladies9 man, pre-
ferring the company of women. He has an
instinct for recognizing actors the minute he
enters a sound stage. He ignores the produc-
tion staff to lavish his affection on the actors.

Neil loves to make pictures and is some-
what of a ham in front of the camera. He
recognizes a cue and walks off the scene
when he hears the word “Cut.”

Trainer Carl Spitz rehearses Neil with the
script three or four times before the take.
The dog is carefully groomed before every
scene—meticulously combed and wiped with
a towel. This, together with his two baths
a week, keeps him trim before the cameras.

Neil Plays Dead

The “Topper” series (Friday nights,
CBS-TV) has Neil disappear and reappear
with the greatest of ease as the pet of a
couple who are supposed to be dead. All
three are invisible, except to one man named
Topper.

According to trainer Spitz getting a

theatrical dog to follow script directions is a

matter of proper training at the proper time.
And he ought to know. He’s had more than
four decades of experience in training dogs.
He ﬁrst tried it as a hobby in his native
Germany, where he was a ﬁre department
officer.

In 1926 Mr. Spitz came to this country
with the idea of turning his hobby into a
profession. He ﬁrst worked in a Chicago
kennel, then moved to California where he
opened his now-famous Hollywood Dog

Training School in 1927.

Although not exclusively devoted to theat-
rical dogs, the school soon began to special-
ize in training dogs for ﬁlms. Mr. Spitz was
the ﬁrst to evolve new techniques for training
ﬁlm dogs when sound came in. A trainer
could no longer stand on the sidelines and
shout commands while the cameras were

KILROY’S HERE AGAIN

 

This time he’s a seven-week-old puppy,
presented by TV singing star Eddie Fisher
and actress Debbie Reynolds (left) to Sally
Rossy, representing The Graham School,
Hastings-on-Hudson, N. Y. The puppy from
ASPCA’s Adoption Ward places another
ASPCA puppy the singer presented a year
ago to the school, the oldest institution for
underprivileged children in the counrty. The
ﬁrst dog, dubbed Eddie Fisher, Jr., was lost

several weeks ago.

 

grinding away. His “silent cue” technique
became important overnight.

In 1931 Mr. Spitz directed the ﬁrst dog
for the talking screen using the silent cue.
The picture was Al Jolson’s “Big Boy.”
Other pictures followed: Barrymore’s “Moby
Dick,” “Call of the Wild,” “Wizard of Oz,”
“The Count of Monte Cristo” and “Call of
the Yukon.”

“The basic requirements for a theatrical
dog,” says Mr. Spitz, “are sound health, good
disposition and normal intelligence.” But
even if your dog possesses all these qualities,
plus being able to sit up and beg, don’t rush
off to the nearest talent agent. “It takes a
year’s time to train a good motion picture
dog” says Mr. Spitz, “and then there’s no
guarantee he will work out. The dog may
take one look at the cameras and refuse to
perform.”

 




IAT
hosPi‘ta

 

 

needs . . .

A Horizontal Steam Sterilizer
for sterilizing of food dishes,

 

 

 

water dishes and other utensils
used in cages of sick animals.
The spreading of infection is _
thus checked and each animal

is assured of completely

 

germ-free utensils.

Horizontal Steam Sterilizer — $679

 

 




 

LETTERS

 

 

Dogs in Libraries

> Your “Library Welcomes Dogs” article
greatly impressed me because with more
buildings becoming more strict than ever
about permitting dogs on premises it is a
pleasant surprise to have public libraries
open their doors to our canine friends.

Miss B. S.
Redford, N. Y.

Army Pigeons

I> Congratulations on presenting our work
in such an interesting manner. I am sure
your article will not only create an interest
in this ﬁeld, but will give the general pub-
lic a better understanding of the homing
pigeon.

OTTO MEYER, Technical Advisor
Pigeon Breeding 8: Training Center

Fort Monmouth, N. J.

WT"
it‘s
%
is
i“
o

E?
s

 

>1 found your winter edition very in-
teresting. The article about the army
pigeons particularly so. I think they are
wonderful creatures. I have several carrier
pigeons brought to me every summer that
are evidently on ﬂight to some place and
get too tired to get home. But after a few
days when I have fed them they get rested
up and are able to start off again.

DR. GRACE W. BURNETT, President
Vermont Humane Society
Brattleboro, Vermont

Girl Scouts

F I wish to thank your staff for your
part in helping the Girl Scouts of TrOOp
4-111 earn their Dog and Cat Badge. Your
well conducted tour of the Shelter and the
plainly understandable explanations to all
their questions were both interesting and
helpful.

MRS. HELEN KLEIN, Leader

Girl Scout Troop 4-111

Richmond Hill, N. Y.

Bouquets in Our Fan Mail

> . . . text is both sprightly and informa-
tive . . . covers are striking. All in all, you
have a publication of which any organiza-
tion could be very proud: up-to-date in
outlook, but with the ageless appeal of
anything which deals sympathetically — and
wisely! — with man’s friends in the animal
kingdom.

TERESA BUXTON, Managing Editor

TV Radio Mirror Magazine

New York, N. Y.

 

 

 




 

 

    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
    
   

there was

a cat named Spooks. Now Spooks was a black and white alley cat, only
four months old. Though things must have looked more black than white
for her the day she was brought into ASPCA’s lVlanhattan Shelter, an
unwanted cat.

But little did Spooks know that a nationwide search was on for a
Cinderella cat to ﬁt a glass slipperijust her size.

It seems there was once another female cat named Rocky — just an
ordinary cat, but very intelligent and very beautiful —— which had died
after an incurable kidney disease. Rocky’s owner, Mr. Alfred Towner of
Rock Island, Illinois, a bed-ridden invalid, was grief-stricken at the loss
of his pet and companion. But he' would accept no other cat, except one
which looked exactly like Rocky.

Mrs. Towner advertised in the newspapers for a cat answering Rocky’s
description: white feet, stomach, whiskers and a white spot under her chin;
completely black face. Angoras, Persians and Siamese were offered, but
Mr. Towner did not want a pure-bred.

Mrs. Towner then addressed an urgent plea to I. R. Biven, president
of Coast Fisheries, makers of Puss’n Boots Cat Food in Wilmington,
California. Mr. Biven had no better luck so he sent the letter to Dorothy
Smith in New York. Mrs. Smith is in charge of the Puss’n Boots Bronze
Award, an honor bestowed on outstanding cats.

Mrs. Smith turned to the ASPCA. Less than 24 hours later Spooks
arrived at the Shelter. She had all the markings of the cat the Towners
described. Her fairy godmother, in the person of
kennelman James Kenny, spotted her immediately.

Before the coach could turn into a pumpkin
Spooks was boarding a United Airlines plane at
LaGuardia Field, bound for the mid-west.




 

 

 

 

Bullfight in New York?
An Editorial

Just as we were about to go to press an
alarming news release was received from
International Presentations Corp. in which
it was announced:

“Jose Rosa Rodrigues, millionaire
sportsman-rancher from Portugal. . .
will bring to the United States this
summer the Portuguese tourada, de-
veloped from the original medieval
form of bull coursing.”

The news release goes on to explain how
the Portuguese bullﬁght differs from the
Spanish bullﬁght, the main difference being
that in the Portuguese tourada the bull is
not actually killed as it is in the Spanish
corrida.

The ASPCA’s reply is that no matter by

what fancy name it is called, it is a bull-

'ﬁght, and we will use every force at our

command to prevent its entry into this
country.

While we deplore the brazen attempt to
introduce this sadistic form of s-o-called en-
tertainment within the borders of the United
States, we are not surprised. For some time
we have observed with disgust the increas-
ing propaganda to soften up the American
people to accept ‘bulllﬁghting as a “sport.”

Gradually this calculated publicity cam-
paign has had its effect. Motion pictures,
magazines, newspapers, radio and TV, travel
posters and advertising in general carry
stories and pictures on the subject more and
more frequently.

This is not to say that any of the media
mentioned approves of bullﬁghting. It is
hoped, for instance, that many newspapers
would oppose it editorially. But such con-
stant publicity does in time engender accept-
ability. Yet there is nothing we can do to
stop it, since no cruelty to animals is in-
volved in propaganda itself.

The threatened attempt actually to stage

a 'bullﬁght in the United States, however, is

quite another matter. Here is something
that every humanitarian organization and
individual can and must ﬁght to the bitter
end. The ASPCA intends to do just that,

and we are counting on your full support.

Our stand will be based on the follow-
ing points, among others:

0 The introduction of the Portuguese
“tourada” or any other brand of
bullﬁghting on the American scene
will tend to degrade public morals
and dull sensitivity to suffering and
pain. The promoters of the proposed
bullﬁght, International Presentations
Corp., admit in their news release
that it is “an intricate emotion-
charged pattern of controlled vio-
lence.” Don’t we have enough vio-
lence in this country already with
juvenile delinquency a major social
problem? Must we import more?

0 It is cruelty to arouse the ﬁghting
instinct of the bull by teasing and
tormenting it into a series of charges,
during which the cavaleiro (man on
horseback) throws his banderilhas
(sharp pointed barbs) into the foam
rubber saddle worn on the bull’s
withers. His ugly mission accom-
plished, the cavaleiro leaves the
ring and is replaced by several for-

' cados (men on foot) whose duty it
is to quiet the frenzied bull, which
in time succumbs from sheer ex-
haustion.

0 There is the possibility that the bull
will be injured. To quote again from
the promoter’s' news release: “Ac-
curate placement of the barbs re-
quires absolute control and complete
coordination between horse and
rider, since the slightest error in cal-
culation can result in a Violent col-
lision.” The error referred to would
not seem so slight to the bull if the
cavaleiro missed his aim and thrust
the barbs into the animal’s ﬂesh in-

(Continued on Page 22)

 




The Odd Case of the Common Cowbird—

or the Boarding House Reach

John Kieran, noted amateur bird watcher, professional columnist,
author and editor of Information Please Almanac, gives us per-
mission to reprint from one of his columns his observations

By John Kieran

A female cowbird

    
   

on the puzzling cowbird.

The sight of a female cowbird sneaking
through the shrubbery along the roadside
brought to mind the fact that no mystery
story ever written has presented a more
bafﬂing problem than the unsolved case of
the common cowbird.

Not the police court part, the offense
against public morals. The cowbird was
caught in the act and condemned for that
long ago. But the criminal tendency is so
strong in this species that the crimes are
repeated each season. The female cowbird
makes no nest of its own and scoffs at the
sanctity of the home. It foists its eggs on
other birds for the hatching, and it never
bothers to call around to see how its offspring
is thriving under the care of a foster-parent.

And how does the young cowbird get
along? Famously and wickedly. Since the
cowbird usually lays its eggs in the nests
of birds smaller than. itself, the young cow-
bird, when hatched, is larger and stronger
than its fellow-nestlings, the legitimate off-
spring of the builder and owner of the nest.
The young intruder grabs most of the food
that is brought by the unhappy foster-parents
and expresses its appreciation by kicking out
of the nest the weaker ﬂedglings of true de-
scent. The fat foster-child is the only one of
the brood that the victimized parents bring
to maturity, and any one who looks can see
some song sparrow or yellow warbler prac-

Phofo by Hal Harrison from National Audubon Society

    

tically working its head off to ﬁll the squeal-
ing maw of a young cowbird much larger
than itself.

That’s the crime of which the parent cow-
birds have been convicted, and the young
cowbirds are plainly regarded as accessories
after the fact. It’s sneaky and immoral and
the young cowbird that kicks the true—born
heirs of the home out of the cradle is a
monstrous example of ingratitude. But that
part of the sad story closes when the young
cowbird, fully grown, turns its fat back
coldly on the foster-parents that have slaved
to bring it up and ﬂies off on its own hook.
Where the crime ends, the mystery begins.
This is it:

How do we know who we are? Why, our
parents tell us. Or kind friends or relatives,
if we are luckless enough to be deprived of
our parents. Most of. us thus know who we
are and have papers to prove it. Of course,
there are occasional cases of mistaken iden-
tity. The shepherd girl turns out to be the
lost princess. The struggling apprentice is
identified as the missing heir to a great
fortune. Of such are the chapters of romance
made. There are few such discoveries out-
side of the realm of pure ﬁction. Almost any
citizen can identify himself on demand.

But how does a young cowbird know that
it is a cowbird? It grows up in the nest of

(Continued on Page 22 )

5




 

   

NO HOME
, TO GO TO . ..

 
 
 

Butch has iust been
awarded our Medal of
Honor for his ”service
in raising funds to find
homes for the orphans
of the animal world.”

In 1949 when artist Albert Staehle’s familiar cocker ﬁrst appeared on a poster
for us 4,738 dogs and cats were adopted from our Shelters. This year the figure
is nearly 10,000 — more than double, thanks to Butch's appealing ways and
your generous response.

Every homeless animal in New York applauds and depends on this unbeat-
able partnership. So do we—

Please use the enclosed envelope for this year’s contribution to

The ASPCA Adoption Service

 

 




A FREIGHTER, enroute from the Belgian Congo, docks in New York.
Aboard is a dead elephant, frozen stiff in his cage . . .
An air shipment of 750 monkeys from India to Detroit makes a
temporary stop-over at New York’s International Airport. Eight monkeys
are found dead . . .

POULTRY MARKETS AND PET SHOPS ARE REGULARLY INSPECTED To PREVENT A Steer bound for a Slaughter house on 11th Avenue gets loose, lS
ANIMALS FROM BEING OVERCROWDED, POORLY FED on HANDLED ROUGHLY. cruelly captured and dragged back to the plant . . .
These are three cases from the ﬁles of ASPCA Agents —— three out of 7 _ , . _ ..
the 5,000 reported cruelty cases investigated, warned or prosecuted this year. AGENTS COVER EVERY pERFORMANCE or cmcusssl
Also in an Agent’s ﬁle are 10,000 routine inspections for prevention HORSE SHOWS! RODEOS AND OTHER 5’5““ EVENTS-

of cruelty— perhaps less newsworthy a purpose than prosecution, but
equally important for a humane agent.

BRIDLE PATHS AND RIDING ACADEMIES ARE CHECKED TO PREVENT LAME

HORSES FROM BEING USED, TO PREVENT OVERRIDING OR ABUSE OF MOUNTS. EGGS DISCARDED IN PUBLIC DUMPS ARE SMASHED

TO SAVE HATCHED DUCKLINGS FROM CERTAIN
DEATH BY STARVATION OR FIRES.

 

SICK OR INJURED ANIMALS ARE CARED FOR AT PUB-
LIC MARKETS, SLAUGHTERHOUSES, AND STOCKYARDS. FEED BAGS AND WATER PAILS MUST BE STANDARD
EQUIPMENT FOR ALL WAGONS USING TRUCK HORSES.

 




 

{\f\(\

(\/\f\ r‘\{‘\

Wages Sent by Pigeon
ENGLAND—4A bricklayer has been send-

ing his weekly wages home to his wife by
carrier pigeon for 16 years. He gets paid
early on Friday, before starting the day’s
work. So each pay day he takes a carrier
pigeon with him, straps the money to the
bird’s leg and releases it. Says the bricklayer:
“N0 pigeon has let me down yet.”

Chip Washed Up
MARYLAND—A laundry worker thought

she saw a laundry bag move. And when a
hairy animal started to crawl out she called
for help.

It turned out to be a pet dog. The Pomer-
anian named Chip apparently crawled into
the bag and was taken to the cleaners.

$2,800 Willed to Cats

LONDON—A man who did not own a
cat left $2,800 to Britain’s hungry cats. One
of the keenest regrets of a 71-year-old pub-
lisher was that life in a London flat pre-
vented him from keeping a cat, for he was
known everywhere as the cat’s friend.

The trustees may use the money for
articles or propaganda, “especially combat-
ting the pernicious idea that they can feed
themselves, and that they hunt and mouse
better if half-starved.”

Back from the Grave
TEXAS——It was a happy reunion for
young Robert and. his four-year-old cocker
spaniel Stray. The dog, injured by an auto,
was put to sleep by a veterinarian and buried
30 miles from home. Stray turned up all

14.

covered with dirt 13 days later after ap-
parently digging himself out of a grave.

British Chimp on TV
ENGLAND ~— J. Frederick Muggeridge,

Britain’s answer to America’s TV chimpanzee
J. Fred Muggs, made his television debut
here —~ in the arms of a Laborite member
of Parliament. He was introduced during a
debate on. commercial television. Said the
MP:

“J. Frederick Muggeridge has every pos-
sible qualification for commercial TV. His
motives are wholly mercenary, he has no
spark of ideals or principles about him. His
cultural level is low enough to satisfy even
a Government test.”

1,000 Dogs Protest
GERMANY—More than 1,000 dogs wear-

ing black mourning ribbons were led through
the streets of Luebeck in a protest parade
against the recent killing of 13 pets because
of suspected rabies.

Traffic was hampered for more than an
hour by the two-mile long procession. Speak-
ers told a rally afterward that “medieval
methods” were used in killing the three dogs
and ten cats.

U. S. l a Cowpath

NEW JERSEY—~Four misguided cows
turned U. S. Route 1 into a cowpath. The
pure-bred cattle broke out of pasture land
maintained by the New Jersey College of
Agriculture.

Once out they strayed along the highway
until two state troopers and college students

 

 

 

coralled them. The cows returned to pasture
with little force. “Probably glad to get out
of the traffic,” quipped a trooper.

Army Wants Dogs as Spotters
COLORADO —The commander of the

nation’s anti-aircraft guns, following a swing
around United States Nike guided missile
installations, says it is possible that they
could be made even more effective through
the use of trained dogs.

Lt. Gen. Stanley R. Mickelsen said he
would like to try out dogs in the role of
alerting anti-aircraft and Ground Observer
Corps units. He said ground spotters almost
always hear a plane before they see it, and
the trained dogs, with their superior hearing,
could give an even earlier alarm.

Parrot Risque in 7 Languages
SPAIN ——A parrot was kicked out of the

national championships for talking birds for

- using gutter language. The judges said it was

a shame, since the parrot could speak in
seven different tongues.

Goonies Gum Up Jets
MIDWAY ISLAND —— Gooney birds have

been a continual nuisance since wartimeair-
strips were first built here. Perching upon
planes, crashing into Windshields and even
laying their eggs on landing strips they in-
terfere dangerously with landings and take-
offs.

In a jet age the danger has increased, since
the birds could easily be sucked down air-
intake vents and cause the plane to explode.

The Fish and Wildlife Service has sent a
couple of experts to Midway to see if the
goonies could be persuaded to let the Air
Force alone.

Gone with the Wind
NEW JERSEY —— A racing pigeon mis-

sing on a training ﬂight during hurricane
Edna, was picked up by a ship at sea and
took an unscheduled Mediterranean cruise.

The bird was let loose with other pigeons
at Trenton a few days before the hurricane
struck Sept. 11. Others on. the training ﬂight,
some a bit late, managed to get to the home
roost, but one bird never returned.

Recently the owner received word that his
pigeon had been picked up by the S. S.
Exford at sea. 0

Cat Snarls Traﬂic

BOSTON —— Half the traffic in downtown
Boston suddenly stopped at the height of the
morning rush hour. While extra police were
called out to unsnarl traffic, maintenance men
spent a half hour tracking down the cause.
They found that a stray cat had switched off.
the traffic lights by brushing against a con-
trol panel in City Hall.

Hatching Is Hen’s Job

NEW ZEALAND — A man who had
passed three weeks trying to hatch a batch
of eggs finally quit today, conceding hens
are more efficient.

The 50-year-old sausage linker had been
roosting 30 feet up a pine tree with six eggs
strapped to his chest. Three got broken and
the remaining three failed to hatch.

 




 

"1

   
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
   
    
   
  
     
   

R'N-TIN-TiN the show every night. The audience couldn’t
ﬁgure out which end was front. Peggy shared

stage honors with such show business vet-
erans as Jackie Cooper and Donald Cook.
She even rated an understudy — an equally
shaggy sheepdog named Sparky.

Early day movie-goers thrilled to the
heroism of Bin Tin Tin, a forerunner of all
cinema hero dogs. And the movie collie
Lassie created havoc in millions of homes.

 

 

 

Every child in America wanted a dog “like

Lassie.”
THE late George M. Cohan always taught that the only sure- Bin Tin Tin (by this time it’s‘Rin Tin
ﬁre way to win over an audience was to bring on the Tin HI) and Lassie now are emoting in
American ﬂag. There’s one other way: bring on a dog. ‘ television, each with his own show. The high
Producers of just about every branch of show business have listener ratings Of bOth, their shows are the
proved-that the dog formula works. . envy of many a comedian, crooner, cowboy

Theatre-goers of a few seasons back will recall Ted (Sport) and wrestler.

Morgan, the singing airedale of the Broadway musical “Top
Banana,” whose duet with the star Phil Silvers was one of the
show’s highlights. Following his Broadway success Sport was
able to command up to $1500 for a television appearance.

Last season’s comedy “King of Hearts” starred 93-pound
Peggy, an Old English Sheepdog, whose entrance on stage stopped

Television guest appearances made by
Morgan, the ﬂoppy-cared basset hound,
created an overnight boom in the basset
hound market.

 

And juvenile TV fans know that cowboy
Roy Rogers, his horse Trigger and his dog
Bullet are an inseparable trio when the script

  
  
 

   

 

 

 

lASSIE

 

 

Neil. star of the "Topper" TV series, visits
ASPCA during his campaign on behalf of his
society for the prevention of disparaging remarks
about dogs. The campaign aims at ending such
anti-canine remarks as "dog eat dog." "in the
dog-house." "dirty dog." "a dog's life."

 

   

calls for heading the bad guys off at Eagle
Pass.

Neil, the 165-pound St. Bernard, may not
be the star of his own show, but his role
in “Topper” can hardly be called a bit part.
He must act the part of a disappearing and
reappearing canine with a penchant for hard
liquor, a difﬁcult role for one whose best
friend is the milkman. Neil is the son of the
famous movie dog Buck, who shared stellar
honors with Clark Cable in “Call of the
Wild.” His grandfather also was in the
movies — making Neil a third generation
movie star; or one step ahead of Douglas
Fairbanks, Jr.

Neil’s recent trip to New York gave
ANIMAL PROTECTION a chance to interview
the star and his trainer Carl Spitz. A peek
into Neil’s private life reveals a few be-
hind the scenes facts about a typical canine
actor. For instance, Neil has some of the
same traits attributed to other well-known
show people. He is temperamental. He will
work only eight hours a day and grumbles

(Continued on Page 21)

 
  
  

 
 
 
   
   
   
   

 




