 

Nov. 1933

Tunny Fishing
CHRIS. SE-WELL

OR some. time past a positive furore

raged in England with regard to tunny '

ﬁshing. Apparently the unusually hot
spring and summer have brought these
monsters of the deep in much greater quan—
tities than usual to our British seas, and
provided a new reason for killing, just be—
cause there is something fresh to kill.

Tunny-ﬁshing has caught the so-called
“sporting” imagination of the rich, and has
become a fashionable pastime along these
coasts, as it has been from time immemo-
rial in more southerly latitudes. In the daily
papers there appear with sickening fre-
quency portraits of society women posing
proudly beside their prey—a brobdingna-
gian tunny suspended from a beam; whilst
appended are a few explanatory words as
to its weight, and the number of hours
during which it was “played.”

It is scarcely surprising that thoughtful
people have been writing to some of our
leading journals to ask, a quoi ban? This
has caused somewhat of a ﬂutter, and
righteously - indignant articles have ap-
peared in reply, setting forth the possibili-
ties of the ﬁsh as an addition to our dietary.

Of course tunny is good to eat, but it is
not caught by the Honorable So and S0 or
Sir Somebody Something Else for that rea-
son. If indeed it were, these well—to-do
folk would be taking the bread from the
mouths of ordinary ﬁshermen, who would
dispose of their catch more quickly and
scientiﬁcally, and would have no leisure
to “play” it for seven hours (no exaggera-
tion, this!) for their own amusement.

What, we are fain to ask, can be the
psychology of the man or woman, who is
exhilarated because a living creature ﬁghts
long and agonizingly for its life, and is
ﬁnally hauled in to gasp out that life in in-
conceivable torture?‘ They do not urgently
need its ﬂesh: they do not desire to hang
trophies in their halls. It is no- sort of
menace to their safety. The stark truth is
that they pursue it because its struggles of
terror and pain titillate their competitive
sense. To take it after a long and ugly
battle gives them a sense of achievement——
even of heroism. They kill for play and
without shame.

We noticed in a paper only this morn-
ing that a lad of twelve (the son of a title-d
father) had, near the Dogger Bank, landed
a tunny of 763 lbs. in weight. The caption
attached to the illustration implied that it
was a very ﬁne and “British” accomplish-
ment. Thank God, many thousands of
British eyes will regard that accomplish-
ment with a shudder of distaste. The ap-
peal to sportsmanship which it was designed
to make will be an appeal to surprisingly
few. For the sentiment of this nation on
the matter of blood sports is undergoing
what is little short of a revolution.

Winterbourne, England

Associate yourself with men of good
quality if you esteem your reputation, for it
is better to be alone than in bad company.

WASHINGTON

In making your will, please remember
the American Humane Education Society
of Boston, the ﬁrst of its kind in the world.

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Page 167

The Beaver Builds His House

EARLE W. GAGE

 

THE BUSY BEAVER AND HIS WORKS

Upper left, beaver house; upper right, trees felled by beaver; lower left,
beaver at work; lower right, beaver dam.

0 American animal is so clever as

the beaver in building his home. No

engineer reveals greater skill than
he in interlacing his hut to protect his tribe
against natural enemies, such as the wolf
and bear, or trappers. The entrance is
under water, enabling the beaver to pass
in and out even after ice has formed on
the pond.

In appearance the beaver hut resembles
the igloo of the Eskimo. The foundation
is laid in a circular shape to a thickness of
about six inches, and in a most wonderful
way it increases bit by bit, formed to re—
semble a perfect dome. Throughout, the
shape is symmetrical, both interior and
exterior being very smooth, and the work
has the appearance of having been executed
by a mechanic using a trowel.

The dome is the real home of the beaver
family. A shelf, three or four feet long,
provides a comfortable place for the ani-
mals to curl up closely in their beds, which
are made by stripping yellow birch into
long shreds, somewhat like the brooms
made by the Indians, which keep the ani-
mals warm and contented. In the fall,
just as killing frosts appear, the house is
carefully plastered with mud, with the ex-
ception of a small place at the top, which
serves as a ventilator. Then nature fur-
nishes the extra covering in the deep falls
of snow.

On a “ﬂoor” beneath the sleeping quar-
ters is a cozy little room about four inches
above water level, which is used for dry—
ing the fur after a swim, and as the din-
ing-room. Six inches above is the bedroom,
so that the water would need to rise ten
inches or a foot before it would trouble
the inmates.

For going and coming, or to make a way
of escape from the meddling otter, two
holes are made in the dining-room ﬂoor,
which lead directly to the water. Under
the water, tunnels are dug in the bank
some distance from the house, to furnish
other ways of escape.

After the dams and lodge are completed,
the beaver works hard during favorable
weather gathering stores for the long win-
ter season. His favorite food is the cam-
bium layer or green part just under the
bark of the tree. When the bark is prop-
erly seasoned, the logs are cut into lengths
varying from two to twelve feet, and are
lowered to the bottom of the pond near
the hut. This pile is of considerable size,
for it must provide food for the entire
family from four to six months.

If the dam be ﬁrm and the stock of food
be ample, the beavers may remain in their
home, under the ice and snow, the entire
winter. Here, occasionally diving through
the holes in the dining-room ﬂoor to their
pantry below, for a log or two, they rest,
sleep and spend the only vacation of which
they know.

Few people know that the beaver carries
a pair of pinchers. Yet, this is the fact.
Now and then, in cutting wood up into
the right lengths, and in peeling logs and
shrubs, the animals get slivers embedded
in their gums or wedged between their
teeth. How they managed to get these out
unassisted long puzzled man.

“They pull slivers out with their pin-
chers,” declared the veteran woodsman.
“Each beaver has two sets of pinchers which
he always carries with him. The toenail
of the second toe from the inside on each
hind foot is radically different from the
others; it is really a pair of nails, hinged
at the base, and two of the knife-edges
coming together make an ideal pair of
pinchers for handling small objects, like
slivers. Thus, each beaver actually has two
sets of pinchers, one on each hind foot.”

The inﬂuence that the fabled she—wolf
had in founding the Roman Empire was in—
signiﬁcant compared with the inﬂuence of
the beaver in opening up and developing
North America. The skin of this water-
baby was the powerful magnet which at-
tracted white explorers, trappers and tra-
ders from the Old World.

 

 




 

Sept. 1933

‘q—

1km tk

 

 

 

.. tit-9. ‘

VACATION COMPANIONS

 

Must Be Kind to Animals

N a public speech Sir Robert Gower, M. P., chairman of the

Royal S. P. C. A., said: “Some time ago I was walking down
Bond Street, W., and saw a poor, miserable cat in the road
which looked as if it would be run over. A ragamufﬁn dashed
into the road, caught the cat at the risk of his own life, and
placed it on the pavement.

“I went to him and said, ‘I am chairman of the R. S. P. C. A.,
and would like your name.’

“ ‘Garn,’ replied the boy. From his attitude it appeared that
he did not believe me, and I said, ‘I am what I say I am and
would like your name and address to recommend you for a
medal. Wouldn’t you like a medal?’

“The little ragamufﬁn turned and said, ‘A gentleman told us
we had got to be kind to animals and not expect any reward.’
The lad then turned on his heels and bolted.”

—R. S. P. C. A. Journal

“A boy and his dog make a glorious pair,

No better friendship is found anywhere,

They will walk, they will talk, they will romp, they will play,
And hold some deep secret for many a day,

That boy has a comrade who thinks and who feels,

Who walks down the road, with a dog at his heels.”

 

 

The Little Baby Rabbit

ALICE PAULINE CLARK

When I was in the woods today
Alone, as is my habit,

A lovely playmate came to me,—
A little baby rabbit!

He nestled to my feet, afraid

Of some strange thing or other;
By little wistful ways he had,

I thought he’d lost his mother.

He let me stroke his soft, young fur
And cuddled closer to me.

I took him right up on my hand;
He seemed to feel he knew me.

I fed him, and I let him go,
You see I had to let him;
For if his mother went to call
She would come back and get him.

And if she couldn’t find her child
She would be sad and worried.

So I said, “Good-bye,” and softly kissed
The white spot on his forehead.

Each time I think how dear and soft
And warm he was, I miss him.

I wonder if it made him proud
To have a lady kiss him!

4 The Alligator Family

SUSAN B. ALLEN

H AVE you ever seen a mother alligator as she stands guard

over her nest of eggs? She looks very warlike. She builds
her nest in tiers, somewhat like the muskrat, and without any
assistance from Father Alligator.

She chooses a spot along the bank of the water which she
inhabits and there she spreads a layer of mud and grass or
leaves and on this she places some ten to twenty-ﬁve eggs; then
above this she spreads another layer of mud and leaves about
seven inches thick and another group of eggs carefully cov-
ered, then on top of this a third layer of mud and leaves with
its group of eggs. Since she lays anywhere from 25 to 75 eggs,
why, her nest-building is quite a job. The eggs are hatched out
with the combination of the heat of the sun and the decaying
leaves, and, my, how closely she guards against intruders!

The little ’gators are about eight inches long when they hatch
out, and such helpless little things! As soon as they are able
to move about the mother leads them to the water and cares
for them much as the hen mothers her little baby chicks. As
they follow their mother about they whine and yelp like little
puppies.

Many people think alligators grow slowly but, according to
Dr. Schmidt, assistant curator of zoology, we learn that often
by the time they are ﬁfteen years old they measure twelve
feet in length. In the United States they are found in the
warm waters of the southern Mississippi and in the swamps
of the Florida Everglades.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

L rm. aﬁ h__

Aug. 1933

In the summer time wild horses go to
drink .around ten o’clock each morning.
When within half a mile of the spring, or
water-hole, the-y fall into single» ﬁle, with a
selected leader, and go down one of their
trails in a long string, but always very
cautiously, for a wild horse has inherited
from his pre-historic ancestors the fear of
what may lurk for him at his drinking
places. While drinking, some are always on
guard. They never all drink at the same
time.

To protect themselves from ﬂies they
often roll in the mud and let it dry on
their bodies, but this is not generally prac-
tise-d among them. When quenching his
thirst the wild horse will take a few swal-
lows of water, then ﬂing up his head and
look about him to see if anything is trying
to creep up and spring on him. When done-
drinking, he usually whirls, as if under
great nervous tension, and dashes away like
a thunderbolt.

Wild horses do not always go to the same
spring to drink. This is sort of an innate
precaution observed by many wild animals.
Having drunk their ﬁll they usually stand,
or lie, near the water-hole till about four in
the afternoon when they move away to
their feeding-grounds, and do not drink
again till noon of the next day.

It is a very interesting fact that wild
horses do not feed twice in the same direc—
tion from their springs. Today they move
away to the'west. Tomorrow they feed to
the east, and so on. In this way they keep
their range fresh all the time. The trails
which come down to each watering-place
always fade out a little way back on the
s10pes. These paths are made when the
horses come in to drink, not when they leave
the spring.

Wild horses always keep their feet in
perfect condition. One never sees long, over-
grown hoofs on the range, like those which
develop in stalls. Just as a deer polishes
his horns on the bushes to keep them sharp,
a horse will travel just enough to keep his
feet in good order.

There is a beauty and grace about a wild
horse, and a pride of movement, with a
bounding, unfettered spirit and redness of
nostril and ﬂashing of eye, which pass like
a shadow when they are captured and
“broken.” And though they may go wild
again, after returning to their unfenced
home, this beauty and spell never return to
them. Once the withering touch of Man
has reached them it never departs.

Wild horses have facial expressions, just
like humans. Some are coarse, ugly, with
sinister, inky eyes. Others are pretty,
dainty, with the most lovely eyes and ex-
pression imaginable. They are also moved
by the same feelings of attraction or repul-
sion which actuate us. Often, one sees
cases of “falling in love” among them, in
which some handsome young male and some
dainty, graceful female become deeply
attached to each other, so that wherever
seen they are together, and if separated in
any measure they become frantic till they
are reunited. These exhibitions of senti-
ment are very interesting as well as very
beautiful.

Wild horse mothers are very devoted.
When it is warm the colts lie at full length
on the ground and sleep very soundly. Upon
the appearance of danger the mothers seek
to awaken them by touching them with their

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

muzzles, or by quick, short little snorts. If
this does not bring them up she will paw
them with her foot. These colts are long-
legged, and when very young will run with
the “band” for hours at full speed.

Also, wild horses get homesick. If driven
to a corral and ﬁnally mastered by rope and
harness, they will seem to surrender to the
inevitable, and to be content with their lot,
but one should not be deceived by this seem-
ing docility, for deep within him the wild
horse retains a clear recollection of the 01—d
range where he was born, and a changeless
love for it, too, and some day' he will go
back. '

N umberless cases are known where such
horses have been taken hundreds of miles
away only to come back at last. If the
owner happens to be keen of eye, and to
have a good understanding of wild horse
nature, he may detect a pair of these exiles
some day standing very close together, their
heads in opposite directions. He will see
them touch noses often, indulging in some
mysterious communication. Also they will
be to themselves, very watchful, and seem-
ingly not in the least hungry. These are the
symptoms of migration, and sometime that
night they will vanish.

For, among many other things in the
heart of a wild horse is homesickness, and
you may be sure he knows the way back.

 

Page 119
The Marbled Godwit

THOMAS ROVONEY

ROSS-WORD puzzle fans are familiar

with the extinct dodo bird, but perhaps
very few know of the marbled godwit, once
a clamorous inhabitant of Minnesota. Tra-
dition is an unreliable historian, a master of
ﬁction. Many fantastic tales has she spun
about this buff-colored being of yesterday.
The long-beaked, reed—legged water bird has
been designated a scavenger far worse than
the crow. This is not true.

There are still a few octogenarian bird
lovers whose memories are unsullied by im-
agination and the creative urge. To them
I owe this account.

The godwit was named after his un-
earthly call—“go’ wit! go’ wit!”—which
was perhaps the world’s most discordant
call until the introduction of the saxophone.
He was a large bird, measuring two feet in
length, with a four-to-ﬁve—inch bill that
curved slightly upward. He appeared to be
on stilts. An excellent wader, the godwit
would slush through shallow waters and
mire, eating insects and mollusks. More
often he would go to the meadows and
prairies, there to hunt grasshoppers and
other harmful insects. No bird should have
commanded more reverence from the farmer.

Although akin to the snipe, the godwit
was without fear. No doubt
this characteristic led to his
oblivion. Merciless men took
advantage and shot the birds
right and left. The godwit
was very good food. During
the decade following the Civil
War millions of them were
killed.

Long ago it was common
for a ﬂock of godwits to
screechingly alight in the
box of a rumbling lumber
wagon or atop a load of mov-
ing hay. They have been
caught by hand on such occa—
sions. Always, then, the free
members would protest, circl-
ing overhead amidst a deaf-
ening din that must have at
least menaced the captor’s
ear drums. “Go’ wit, go’
wit, go’ wit!”

These big birds, once more
common than sparrows, are
no longer to be seen. Once
an important factor in the
checking of insect hordes,

 

“PHANTOM,” LATE DOG OF PRESIDENT LOWELL they are now remembered by
STATUE BY BASHKA PAEFF, BOSTON SCULPTOR but a few paragraphs In or-

Among the pleasant experiences of Presi-
dent Lowell, of Harvard, upon his retiring
from the presidency at this last Commence-
ment, was the presentation to him by the
graduating class of a bronze statue of his
famous little dog, Phantom, which died re-
cently. Phantom had been a visitor to our
Hospital for several years whenever his
need required our services. Receiving the
gift President Lowell is reported to have
said: “Good old dog. He was better known
around here than I am. We were all fond
of him. I guess he did about as much good
around here as I did.” Alas for him or her
to whose heart the loyalty and devotion of
a dog makes no appeal!

nithological history. An ob-
literated member of genus Limosa. Man
ﬁghts conditions alone, with agencies of 1118
own devising. But less eﬂicient is he than
Nature’s feathered aides.

Beetles the world over are living jewels
of color and decoration, rivaling the colors
of the rainbow, clad in royal armor rich in
brilliant iridescence, and do you know that
many of them are often within the reach of
our eyes?

. a
0

Men will do a lot of cruel things when
the searching eyes of the world are not
upon them.

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

June, 1933

 
 
 
  

Page 95

 

 

 

 

 

It- " ..

I V
.x“¢9;:‘:{yfé//{”J
(Q .R\‘""-‘ 3

\

  
   

    

\\\ .

o'

\\\.«

3.: ""9
" I‘

 

\\.

 
 

s

 
 
  

m
t\\\

  
   
   
 

‘h
|

 

I

 

I“

 
 

 

 

T HE prize photographic competition, conducted by Our from all parts of the country. Congratulations to the winners.
Dumb Animals for boys and girls under ﬁfteen for the We only wish that we could afford a prize for each one who

best photographs taken by them with their own cameras and participated.

received before April 1, 1933, resulted as follows: First prize,

$10 cash, (upper center), Dorothy V. Schaeffer, 14, Washing- A SChOOIbOY’S CFCCd

ton, D. 0.; second prize, $5 cash, (upper left), Betty Stowell,

12, Yonkers, N. Y.; third prize, $3 cash, (upper right), Thomas

B. Manning, 13, Greenﬁeld, Mass.; honorable mentions, one

year’s subscription to Our Dumb Animals, (lower left), Eileen

Droz, 14, Somerville, Mass., (lower center), Loyd Yarn, 10,

Atlanta, Ga., (lower right), Margaret O’Donnell, 14, Bridge- .

. . . . A chhudPllt th:Ck',Dht,ﬁ‘ k,
water, Mass. Many other 1nterest1ng pictures were sent in ”piggy; gag; SSW; Chgifgggupmggkes, 1:: (13:;ng W S 00 89 Ca 9

A coward quite often will worry a cat;

A “Regular Fellow” will never do that,

For only a coward, it’s easy to see,

Will ﬁght with a creature that’s weaker than he.

 

 

 




 

 

 

May, 1938

To Love Dogs is to Have
the Love of Dogs

HARRIETT MILLS SMITH

CANNOT remember the time when dogs

and I haven’t been on intimate terms.
We have eaten off the same platter, as it
were, for many years. I sometimes think
the quality of my voice has something to
do with it, for having spoken to dogs on
the street for the ﬁrst time, and in per-
fectly strange towns, they have immediately
dropped all their other business .aﬁairs and
clung tight to me throughout the day; lying
on the door mat while I was inside, regard-
less of the length of time, and taking their
place at my heels as I went forward; or
if my interview was on the veranda, they
would lie at my feet, immovable to all sug-
gestions that they might retire.

It was down in old Kentucky, I believe,
that I met and became a friend to one of
the largest dogs I ever saw. I was on my
way to see a prospect when, as I reached
the “estate,” covering a block or two, I should
say, in the outskirts of the town, this big
black fellow loomed up in the corner of the
grounds with nothing but the fence between
us. I realized at once that before I ever
reached the gate and opened it, we would
have to be chums. I stopped and spoke to
him, and made good. Immediately his tail
began wagging vigorously, and the wag kept
up. I put my ungloved hand down between
the opening of the iron fence and, it was
covered with “kisses.” We walked slowly
along chatting together. When the gate was
reached I opened it unhesitatingly, stepped
inside, and closed it. The wag was still
going on and the kissing began again.

When we were about half-way to the
house, the mistress of the home rushed out,
cxclaiming: “Oh, that dog will injure you,
he is ﬁerce! We keep him in chains all the
time! I don’t know how he ever got loose!”
By this time she had reached my side. “Mad—
am,” I replied, “don’t you see we are
friends? I am perfectly safe. There is no
cause to be frightened.” No urging on her
part to get the dog away from me proved
successful. He stuck closely to my side.

We sat down on the wide veranda and
talked for some time, with the dog at my
feet and facing me, which custom, I have
been told, is unusual in dogdom. From time
to time, “Mrs. Jones” would look at me and
repeat: “I never saw that dog do anything
like this before in all my life. He is terrify-
ing to every one and has injured people.
So we have to keep him chained constantly.”

When I left he insisted on going with me
in spite of all she could say or do. I shut
him inside the grounds and we walked along
together to the corner where I made his
acquaintance, and with a few more caresses
I said “good-bye.” Such a dear old fellow!
All he wanted was love.

It would seem to me that people who
really loved dogs would share their last
dollar to get them something to eat, or a
warm place to stay in inclement weather,
for we protect what we love; and this might
apply to all kinds of animals. Our four—
footed friends are so dependent upon man-
kind for their well-being and happiness!
Let us not forget them!

O O

Remember the Massachusetts S. P. C. A.

in your will. .

OUR DUZUB ANIMALS
“;Our Friend the Dog”

Sometimes when life has gone wrong with
you
And the world seems a~ dreary place,
Has your dog ever crept to your feet
His yearning eyes turned to your face?
Has he made you feel that he understands
And all that he asks of you
Is to share your lot, be it good or ill,
With a chance to be loyal and true?

Are you branded a. failure? He does not
know.
A sinner? He does not care.
You’re master to him—that’s all
counts,
A word and his day is fair.
Your birth and your station are nothing to
him
A palace or hut are the same,
And his love is yours in honor and peace,
And it’s yours through disaster and
‘ shame.

that

Though others forget you and pass you by,
He is ever your faithful friend,

Who is ready to give you the best that is his
Unstintedly right to the end.

E. B. DARLING in The Animals’ Protector

The Problem of Pain

Cruel will he be, unjust and brutal to- his
fellows, who wilfully wrongs by any deed
of his the lowliest thing that can suffer
pain. And who can tell how wide that realm
into which pain is ever casting its dreaded
shadow? It sweeps the whole compass of
life, we may well believe, from man him-
self to the tiniest creature whose biography
is measured by the few brief hours of de-
light it knows between a rising and a set-
ting sun. Turn to the fascinating studies
of Henri Fabre and you will hesitate to lay
ruthless hand even on the insect whose won-
ders of instinct amaze and confound you.
Where the capacity for suffering fades out
of the world’s vast river of life that flows
from the Eternal on to the unnumbered
hosts that in the sea and on the land and
in the air live out their checkered and often
tragic histories, the thoughtful dare not say.
If only we could see how far reaching in
its inﬂuence upon human character and
the very life of the nation this humane
movement is that pleads for kindness, com-
passion, justice toward all that lives, we
should honor it with a nobler regard and
a more generous support.

DR. ROWLEY in “The Vital Need”

 

Page 71
Wild Life Killed by Motors

J. ALLEN CASH

HE spring heralds another season of
devastating slaughter of birds and ani-
mals on the highways. The sense of danger,
instinct in wild life, has not kept pace with
the increasing speed of automobiles. The
result is that birds and animals on the
roads, or crossing them, fail to correctly
judge the amount of time they have to es-
cape harm from an approaching car. This
is the cause of so many mangled remains
of our wild creatures being seen on the
highways. The consequent hardship and
suffering to young birds left to starve in
their nests can only be vaguely imagined.
How few motorists have apparently any
regard for the lives of birds and animals!
What motorist would think ofstopping af-
ter ploughing through a ﬂock of birds, for
instance, to see if any had been only stun-
ned, and might be saved if taken off the
road and given the chance to recover?

It is difﬁcult to suggest any remedy for
the unfortunate killings on the roads, but
a little consideration on the part of the
driver will save many lives. Being some-
what of a naturalist, the writer is genuinely
distressed if he happens to hit a bird or
animal on the road. Consequently he has
learned to do everything possible to avoid
this. Much can be done by occasionally slow-
ing down a little when one sees a bird or
animal in a dangerous position ahead. One
can also swerve at times to avoid them, but
due consideration must, of. course, be given
to human lives and safety. Very often,
swerving is distinctly dangerous. Pulling
up on the highway is also dangerous some—
times and can be done without causing any
trouble only where trafﬁc is not. dense.

As a matter of interest, the writer kept
a record of birds and animals killed on the
roads of Ontario, where they could be posi-
tively identiﬁed. It was found that the
greatest number of corpses were those of"
robins and the various sparrows. Then
came warblers, kingbirds, swallows, gold-
ﬁnches, and an occasional woodpecker.
Among the animals, rabbits, skunks, wood-
chucks and chipmunks were seen in con-
siderable numbers, and near swamps many
turtles were noticed. There is little excuse
for any motorist to run over any such slow
moving creature as a turtle. A little care
and consideration on the part of drivers
would prevent countless tragedies among
the wild life of the countryside.

Dogs appear in the friezes of the Egypt-
ian temples. They were greatly venerated.

we

GOOD TO THE LAST LAP

Keystone View Co.

 

 

 




“W5“ lvV‘ .

I

 

. _~p~. -—-._.~,_—

 

 

1‘-'._ M, —-." ‘-

 

 

- -__-m- “a i

 

 

 

Dec. 1933

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

 

 

sfmas“
Greefin s

 

Christmas in the Woods

HENRY CLAYTON HOPKINS in Ladies’ Home Journal
(By special permission)

What season can it be but Christmas Eve,
When drowsy Nature’s icy fingers weave

Such pure delights in frost-bound-earth and sky
As warm the heart and captivate the eye?

The sunset burns across blue-shadowed snow
And gilds the trees, all blackened, with its glow,
The azure heaven sparkles as it fades

The deeper hues that herald nightly shades.

In all the bracing air a gladness floats,

As sweet as music from the swelling throats

Of summer birds, and Nature’s children feel

A witchery of concord o’er them steal.

Deserting burrow, nest and hollow tree,

In fur and feathers, Little Folks in glee

Dance down the meadow path and forest lane,
And thoughts of cruel traps and guns disdain.
To many a festal tree their gambols lead,

Where stored against the barren winter’s need
The golden corn and rosy apples peep

From drifts of snow in luscious, tempting heap.
In jolly circles round and round they go

In step to merry shout of Jay and Crow,

And whistle of the Redbird, as they ﬂash
Among the trees in many a headlong dash.
Perhaps they do not know ’tis Christmas Eve,
Nor in its vague enchantment sweet believe,

But on this day they feast without a fear,

Who live as foes thro’ all the changing year,

Till stars look down with laughing eyes that seem
To send a joyful message on each beam.

Quite recently a German student discovered that butterﬂies
come to ﬂowers because they enjoy the colors of them. He
mixed artiﬁcial ﬂowers with natural ﬂowers and watched the
results. The yellow, blue and purple colors attracted the butter-
ﬂies; but the green ones, not at all.

 

 

“There Came a Big Spider”
ORA, POLLARD PARKINSON

ITTLE Miss Muffet missed an interesting time when she

ran away from the spider. They are marvelous spinners
for one thing, and, as for mathematics, well, the spider stands
at the head of the class.

Spiders are the world’s loftiest permanent inhabitants, mak-
ing their homes, in some instances, far up on mountain peaks
as high as 22,000 feet. They are world-wide travelers, too,
living all over the globe and making themselves at home in
all climates and places. And, strange as it may seem, for the
spider is a Wingless creature, they can make “balloons” and
ﬂy away more skilfully than most other wing-ed creatures.

The United States. Department of Agriculture has a fa-
mous entomologist, one who knows a great deal about insects,
who gives much time to the study of these interesting little
friends. Spiders are not our enemies. From, the silken line
they spin, threads are made for the use of microscopes and
other optical instruments. In their ministry of beauty to the
world, few creatures excel these spider friends. Their sym-
metrical designs, glistening with dew, are one of the loveliest
sights human eyes can look upon. There are all kinds of
spiders, six—eyed spiders, long—legged spiders, spiny-jawed spi-
ders, diving spiders, too, and jumping spiders, who always look
before they leap. They fasten a line of their spun silk to their
resting-place and then jump. However far they go over the
precipice, they can come home again by means of the silken
“rope.”

 

What Kindness Will Do

SILVERQUILL

The riders of the West have different names for vicious and
dangerous horses such as, “grave-digger,” “outlaw,” “hogeye,”
“man-eater,” and the like.

These terms are applied to such animals as are considered
unbreakable, and which for that reason are never to be trusted.
The very sedate, commonplace horse in the picture was listed
as one such three months ago, but the lady who stands beside
him, Ruth Travis Whitney, transformed him by kindness to
perfect safety, and he became her favorite riding animal.

 




 

 

 

K ...m-«;‘ -

 

 

 

Page 72

Our Dumb Animals

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston ofﬁce; 180 Longwood Av-
enue, Boston, Mass., to which all communications

should be addressed.

Dr. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON, Editor
WILLIAM M. MORRILL, Assistant

 

MAY, 1933

 

 

FOR TERMS, see back cover.

AGENTS to take orders for Our Dumb Animals are
wanted everywhere. Liberal commissions are offered.

EDITORS of all periodicals who receive this pub-
lication this month are invited to reprint any of the
articles with or without credit.

MANUSCRIPTS relating to animals, particularly
prose articles of about three hundred words, are solic-
ited. We do not wish to consider prose manuscripts
longer than 800 words, nor verse in excess of thirty—
six lines. The shorter the better. All manuscripts
should be typewritten and an addressed envelope with
full return postage enclosed with each offering.

 

 

Quite a Common Experience

SUPPOSEDLY wealthy Philadelphia
' gentleman left the bulk of his estate to
a Pennsylvania Anti-Vivisection Society. It
was reported that the estate would approxi-
mate $500,000. The inventory reduces the
amount to about $50,000. This is becoming
a very common experience with charitable
organizations. By the will, a large bequest.
Upon its settlement, frequently a mere frac-
tion of what the newspapers announced,
often, nothing.

This Evil Must Not Spread

Our Animals, published by the San Fran-
cisco S. P. C. A., calls attention to a form
of cruelty of which we know little here in
the East. Here, in part, is what it says:

Abandoning Florida for more lucrative
ﬁelds of operation, dog racing tracks have
invaded California within the last year in
wholesale numbers.

While the belief prevails and is cleverly
fostered that the dog races are harmless,
one needs but to see a race to realize that
they are not as harmless as advertised.

It is true that mechanical rabbits are
pursued by the coursing greyhounds in the
races. But it is equally true that the races
are run solely for gambling purposes, and
gambling has ever been ruthless and un-
scrupulous in the means used to win.

It is not an unusual sight to see some
dog led out to the starting barrier in ap-
parently sound condition—the favorite to
win the race, in fact—only to have the
same dog spring from the starting box and
fall into a limping stride that leaves him
hopelessly last.

Professional gamblers and dog racing in-
siders know the reason for this. One of
the dog “attendants” may have had instruc-
tions to “ﬁx” the dog—a hard heel on the
dog’s paw, enough to disable him so he
could not win the race. Other tricks em-
ployed by the gamblers include the wrap-
pmg of ﬁne wire tightly around the leg
Joints of the dog, tightly enough to pre-
vent the dog from getting the proper snap
to his leaps and thus lose the race.

Let all humane societies watch these
races whenever they occur and prosecute
every evidence of cruelty.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

The Zoological Garden

E call it a garden. In reality it is a
prison. Readers of Galsworthy’s “For-
sythe Saga” may recall that whenever he
takes any of his characters to the zoo he
never fails to leave the impression that it is
a place of unhappy animals. From The
Starry Cross we take the following:
“Measured from the stature of a true
civilization, zoological gardens are indeed
barbaric, for however well disguised and
cared for they may be, they are in reality
only prisons in which most of the prisoners
pace their lives away in nervous misery.”
The Starry Cross quotes from Gals-
worthy’s story of how he came to give up
hunting: “When once the joy of life in
those winged and furry things has knocked
at the very portals of one’s spirit, the
thought that by pressing a little iron twig
one will rive that joy out of their Vitals,
is too hard to bear.” '

For Humane Sunday

CENTRAL CONGREGATIONAL CHURCH
Brooklyn, N. Y.
March 27, 1933
My dear Doctor R0wley:—

I shall be very glad indeed to do what I
can on April 23 in behalf of our humane
work throughout the nation and the world.
It is most gratifying to me to know that
any feeble word of mine has helped to
sustain your own splendid enterprise, in
which I am deeply interested. Indeed, I
have taken the liberty of naming you and
your Society in answer to a mother’s ques—
tion about how to train her children to be
kind to animals.

Yours ever,
S. PARKES CADMAN

The Toll of the Toy Guns

Airguns, pistols, riﬂes and other dan-
gerous weapons that are permitted in the
hands of youth and children are not only
a proliﬁc source of accidents but also,
what is far worse, are an encouragement of
crime. In the local papers of almost every
city and town in the United States can be
read hundreds of times during the year, ac-
counts of the dangerous air—gun and riﬂe;
of accidents to children and adults, as well
as to animals and birds, from these weap-
ons of destruction.

The Western Press Bureau of the Amer-
ican Humane Education Society, which is
in charge of Mrs. Alice L. Park of Palo
Alto, recently received from one individual
a collection of short clippings from the
press, recording scores of casualties and
deaths of those under ﬁfteen years of age
due to ﬁrearms in the hands of juveniles.
The list is four yards in length and was
gleaned in 1932 from a very limited area.

It is a situation to be deplored. It means
that with little or no restriction upon the
possession of toy guns and small arms, lack
of law enforcement in the sale and carry-
ing of them, a great responsibility rests
upon parents and teachers primarily to
insure and protect the lives of the younger
generation.

There are more beavers in Michigan than
1n any other region of equal area.

M an, 1933

The Circus

E agree heartily with the Worcester
Gazette when it says, as it did re-
cently.

Circuses, we are told, are “going animal”
this year. That is, their chief attraction
will be cages and cages of roaring tigers
and lions and other wild beasts. .

Dangerous animals have to be killed when
they interfere with man’s safety and pro-
gress. But Why should there be needless
torture inﬂicted by taking animals from
their native haunts and keeping them im—
prisoned for the rest of their lives? Surely
the circus powers-that-be should be able to
think of ways to entertain and amuse chil-
dren and adults without turning their
shows into avenues of horror and pain.

A Prayer

(From the Russian)

Hear our humble prayer, 0 God, for our
friends the animals, especially for animals
who are suffering; for all that are over-
worked and underfed and cruelly treated;
for all wistful creatures in captivity that
beat against their bars; for any that are
hunted or frightened or hungry; for all that

must be put to death. We entreat for them '

all Thy mercy and pity; and for those who
deal with them we ask a heart of compas-
sion and gentle hands and kindly words.
Make us ourselves to be true friends to
animals, and so share the blessing of the
merciful. For the sake of Thy Son, the
tender-hearted, Jesus Christ our Lord.
Amen.

Cows Are Heavy Drinkers

An average cow requires 77 pounds of
drinking water daily, says Dr. C. D. Grin-
nells, in charge of dairy investigations for
the North Carolina experiment station,
according to an Associated Press dispatch
from Raleigh, N. C. Lack of pure water,
Dr. Grinnells says, is the cause of many
of the ills of the dairy cow.

To the Editor

Dr. S. Parkes Cadman has publicly stated
that he has small regard for any man’s re—
ligion, whose horse and dog do not feel the
beneﬁts of it.

May I call attention through your cour-
tesy to the ﬁtting opportunity offered by
our National Humane Sunday, to spread
the truth underlying these forceful words.

Such endorsement by the Christian min-
istry will be most timely, for it is a fact,
though not generally recognized, that some
of the most cruel practices inﬂicted on
animals in Christendom are justiﬁed by
their perpetrators, and permitted by the au-
thorities, on the ground that animals have
neither rights nor sensibilities, which man
is obligated by Religion to respect. ,

But every person who teaches a child to
be thoughtful and kind in the treatment of
his furred and feathered kinsfolk, is hast-
ening that day.

Humane Education has now secured a
foothold in every civilized, and in some un-
civilized, countries, and it rightfully asks
for the support of every follower of the
founder of Christian faith.

MABE‘L STUART DAVEIS

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 96

Courtesy

KATHERINE VAN DER VEER

Courtesy is a gentle word that brings
The thought of kindness to the very least
Of all the little furred and feathered things,
Stray mongrels, and the over-burdened
beast.
They look, with depths of sorrow in their
eyes,
As if they held a soul that would beseech
Compassion from the strong and worldly-
wise—
Tyrant or god, to those who have no
speech.

A bowl of water for the thirsting dog,
A friendly heart that tries to intercede
For friendless kittens, in the rain and fog,
Such courtesies are part of human need,
For those who give of love, shall love re-
ceive,
This I have read and this, I do believe.

Be Kind to Animals Week in
Chicago

A broadcast each day of Humane Week
was arranged for in Chicago by our repre-
sentative there, Mrs. Toomi'm. The follow-
ing spoke for humane education over the
radio:

Mr. Gilbert H. Wilkinson, principal of the
Fort Dearborn School; Mr. Karl Borders,
League for Industrial Democracy; Dr.
Robert Clements, Presbyterian Theological
Seminary; Mr. Perry A. Lint, executive of
Boy Scouts; Mrs. Charlotte L. Hunt, presi-
dent of Chicago Humane Education Society;
and Dr. Abraham Hirschberg, rabbi, Temple
Sholom.

It was station WIBO that so generously
granted the privilege of these broadcasts.

Sincerest sympathy of all our co-workers
goes out to Mr. Wm. F. H. Wentzel, ﬁeld
representative of the American Humane
Education Society and secretary of the
Western Pennsylvania Humane Society of
Pittsburgh, upon the sudden passing of
Mrs. Wentzel on the Saturday of Be Kind
to Animals Week.

The two insects most useful to man are
the silkworm and the honey bee.

There are 18,379 pure-blooded bison in
North America, the United States having
3.385, one-third of these being in the State
of Wyoming.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

The Gentle Are the Brave

Editorial in Christian Science Monitor

HIS is “Be Kind to Animals Week”

in the United States. Gentleness
gives strength to civilization, and mercy to
dumb creatures marks humanity.

‘For long, mankind gave scant heed to
the mute pleading of the inarticulate strata
of creation. Then, just a short century
ago, the ﬁrst association in the world for
the defense of animals was formed, in the
face of violent opposition, through the
efforts of Richard Martin, a member of
the British Parliament. Now Bands of
Mercy girdle the world, and through their
untiring ministrations the lot of animals
grows ever brighter and happier.

In America from April 17 to April 23
daily radio programs under the auspices
of the American Humane Education So-
ciety are being given, describing the work
of many organizations in promoting kind-
ness to animals. Governors in many states
are issuing proclamations urging wide ob-
servance of this annual “Be Kind to Ani-
mals Week.” School children throughout
the land are being taught through precept
and practice that the gentle. are the brave.

Much remains to be accomplished. There
are still pack mules staggering painfully
over the Andes whose existence is one long
misery; the tourist’s sensibilities are sadly
torn by the callous cruelty to beasts of bur-
den in some parts of southern Europe.
Ponies still become blind in the darkness
of coal mines in which they are sentenced
to life-long imprisonment. Harsh cruelty
is still too often the dreary portion of ani-
mals trained for show purposes.

But, with one exception, civilization does
recognize more and more the: rights of
those who cannot speak for themselves.
That exception is the vivisectionist. “Be
kind to us” still echoes to the skies from
uncounted victims tortured in the name of
humanity.

The dog, during these recent years of
vanishing fortunes and dreary times, has
been a source of comfort, companionship
and pleasure to many people. Hard times
and moratoriums mean nothing in the dog’s
life. He is always the same cheerful, loyal,
loving servant of man and has done much
in keeping up the good spirits of us all.

—Dog World

Both Houses of the Pennsylvania legis-
lature have unanimously passed a bill to
prevent the cropping of dogs’ ears, similar
to that secured by our Society in Massa-
chusetts.

 

 

TO OUR FRIENDS

In making your will, kindly bear in mind that the corporate title of our Society is “The
Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals”: that it is the second
incorporated (March, 1868) Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals in the country,
and that it has no connection with any other similar Society.

Any bequest especially intended for the beneﬁt of the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital
should, nevertheless, be made to The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals “for the use of the Hospital,” as the Hospital is not incorporated but is the
property of that Society and is conducted by it.

FORM OF BEQUEST -

I give to .The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (or

to The American Humane Education Society), the sum of
dollars (or, if other property, describe the property).

 

oooooooooooooooooooooooooo

 

 

 

 

June, 1933

Freedom for the Dog
L. L. TROTT

HILE living in the country, I pur-
chased a watch—dog from a reput-
able advertiser unable longer to conﬁne his
lively German police dog within city walls.
The handsome sentinel was two years
“young,” and had never experienced
greater liberty than that afforded by a
leash. The farm was the place for him!
But it was too late now. He killed
poultry on sight—the ﬁrst he had ever seen.
And, when again tethered, he developed a
sort of canine insanity, not hydrophobia,
but fearful of all ﬁgures, even fantastic

shadows. A painless exit was his right.
A lap-dog is the canine pet for city
dwellers.

Since then, a police puppy, farm reared
among poultry, cats, and what not, has
given good service, and enjoyed the r01-
licking, skirmishing life he deserves.

A near friend in a crowded village was
presented a female bull pup of high de-
gree, “with papers.” The papers overcome
prejudice, in most cases, and she kept the
gift. She was persuaded that when her
“Patsy” became a mother, the progeny
could be placed in good homes, at a hand-
someproﬁt.

She made conditions as near to nature’s
demands as she thought possible; took the
dog outdoors on a leash, and included a
bone in the daily diet. However, Patsy was
actually indoors most of the time, and
consumed rations from the daily human
menu.

When her puppies came, she was back
with the veterinarian who raised her. But
she gave up her affectionate life, with only
one surviving offspring to keep her mem-
ory green, sacriﬁed to an unnatural indoor
existence, lack of exercise, and the food
for civilized stomachs.

The owner made determined changes for
the pup—wired off a spacious paddock,
partly shaded, where he could run and play
and dig, and bury bones, and grow husky.
He visits indoors many times every day,
but his home is outside, and he loves the
fresh, free existence. And every day he
has treats from the family table, but his
regulation diet was prescribed by the vet-
erinary, and his health is sturdier than his
mother’s was. So much for putting one’s
self in Fido’s place!

 

Our Dumb Animals

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston ofﬁce; 180 Longwood Avenue.

Address all communications to Boston.

TERMS

One dollar per year. Postage free to any part of

the world.
Humane Societies and Agents are invited to cor-
respond with us for terms on large orders.
. All dollar subscriptions sent direct to the oﬂice en-
tltle the sender to membership in either of our two
Societies.
RATES OF MEMBERSHIP IN
THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY

OR THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.

‘Active Life $100 00 Active Annual $10 00

Associate Life 50 00 Associate Annual 5 00

Sustaining 20 00 Annual 1 00
Children’s $0.75

Checks and other payments may be sent to ALBERT
IA. tPOLLARD, Treasurer, 180 Longwood Avenue,
os on.

Manuscripts should be addressed to the Editor,
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston.

 

 

 

 




 

Feb. 1933

A Storm-Tossed Bird

MARGARET El. BRUNER

One winter day when skies were drear,
A strange bird in a tree near by

Sat shivering as if in fear,
And seemed too tired to ﬂy.

I had not known its kind before,—
Soft gray, tinged with a golden hue;

I think it strayed from some far shore
And yearned for mates it knew.

And when I called, it looked at one
With trusting, yet half-frightened eyes,
That spoke far more beseechingly
Than chirps or hungry cries.

But in the interval when I

Had gone indoors in search of food,
It vanished, yet the tree and sky

Held less of solitude.

I like to think some guiding force
Came to allay its fear and pain,

And steered it safely on its course
Back to its own again.

“The hope of those who look for the
abolition of war is in the humane education
of all the boys and girls now in the grade
schools, high schools, and colleges.”

Mother Grouse and the Fire

Demon
CONRAD O. PETERSON

HE forest ﬁre had raged for two days,
and we, under the supervision of the

ﬁre warden, had just put the ﬁre under
control. On leaving the scene of the ﬁre, I
crossed acres and acres of burned territory,
blackened and still smouldering in places.
Suddenly, there was a whir of wings, and

a ruffed grouse arose from the ground near-

my feet, and ﬂuttered away toward some
blackened bushes.
Wondering why she
had stayed through
that ﬁery holocaust, I
looked under a black-
ened log and found the
reason. A nest entirely
ﬁlled with eggs! And
they were safe because
while one end of the
log had been destroyed,
the other end had been
left untouched. _

I am sure that if the .
ﬁre had destroyed the
nest, the mother grouse
would have perished
with it, as no doubt
other forest mothers
had died. That is one
reason why Northern
Wisconsin is building
miles and miles of ﬁre
lanes through their cut-
over lands—not only
for the protection of
growing forests, and
safe-guarding homes of
settlers, but also for
the protection of our
forest friends.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Page 23

The Officer Birds Arrive

MAUDE WOOD HENRY

ATE in March, when the pussy willows

are showing silvery green in the

marshes and about the ponds and
streams, you are apt to see a bachelor ga-
thering of spruce, epauleted “Officer Birds”
that appear to be having a social conclave.
Vast chattering and gayety, with a ring-
ing chorus of ﬁfes, announce that these
young “ofﬁcers” are entertaining themselves
—and any chance listener—to their top-
most bent. A glance at their black uni-
forms and scarlet and gold shoulder straps
tells you they are red-wings, the gayest of
the blackbirds. But why bachelors? As
they jubilate there among the willows and
alders and sway on the cat-tails and dead
marsh grass you will note that there is
not a lady among them. The advance guard
of these birds is always male. But they are
not conﬁrmed bachelors, by any means. Just
wait a bit, a week or two perhaps, and you
will witness a still greater pow—wow. The
ladies will be the cause. But you will be
surprised that such gay young ofﬁcers can
be content with anything less handsome and
striking than themselves. Lady red-wings
are certainly plain, not to say homely. They
arrive in a traveling costume of black and
brown, relieved by rosettes and trimmings
of white and buff, and this costume serves
them as bridal raiment when the courting
days are over. But its very inconspicuous-
ness has an advantage in nesting—time when

no bird wishes to unduly call attention to.

its whereabouts.

Assuming that your interest has been
aroused to the point of ’a follow-up ac-
quaintance, your next exciting glimpse of
these birds will doubtless reveal the newly-
weds in possession of their charming dom-
icile. It may take several trips to locate it,
but when discovered you will be repaid.
More than likely the excited father-to-be
will tip you oﬂ" as to its probable site by cir-

 

HUNGRY BABY RED-WING BLACKBIRDS

cling over it, or he may give you a clue
from a near-by tree—top where he is pouring
out his soul in a rich solo intended for the
ears of his lady. The nest may contain
eggs or some particularly unattractive
ﬂedglings composed chieﬂy of wide-open
mouths. But you will love the architecture
of the red—wings’ home, if not greatly taken
with its inmates. By now the marsh will
be opulent in its spring greenery. The
reeds, rushes and cat—tails will stand erect
and be strong enough to support the nest
which is placed several feet above the water.
A number of stems are laced together and
the structure, made of grasses, stalks and
ﬁne lining ﬁbres, is a roomy one, deep, to
hold the babies safely until they can clam-
ber out under their own power and go ad-
venturing into the world. A watery loca-
tion has its risks, and a passing wind could
dislodge a shallower abode than the fore-
sight-ed red-wings prepare.

Not always is the nest in a marshy loca-
tion. Often you will ﬁnd it in an alder
thicket, in a bush or tree by the riverside,
or even on the ground among the bobolinks
and meadowlarks who are kinfolk to the
red-wings. And, speaking of relatives, these
birds have an odd assortment which includes
the cowbird of unsavory reputation, grack-
les, orioles, and many other kinds of black-
birds besides the meadow musicians.

After the nesting season the red-wings
and their oﬁspring go a-gypsying with
others of their kind in large ﬂocks. It is
then that they thieve and plunder unmerci-
fully, taking grain from the farmer with-
out a by-your-leave, as they take rice from
the southern planter later on. When migra-
tion gets under way many thousands of
red—wings make the trip together, march-
ing as trained soldiers, wheeling to the
right or left or swooping downward as one
bird under the able command of the “ofﬁcer”
in charge.

The blackbird family as a whole is looked
upon askance by grain growers, but the-
red-wings have been carefully studied and
have been found to destroy thousands of
injurious insects, worms, grubs and cater-
pillars—enough to. pay for any foraging they
do in spring and autumn. The good they
do far outweighs the injury. Weevils, wire-
worms, click-beetles, gipsy-moth caterpillars,
tent-caterpillars, grasshoppers, ants, bugs
and ﬂies are all on the menu of this parti-
cular blackbird, and for that reason he is
protected by law. So, if you have a mania
for shooting blackbirds, or covet a pie with
four-and-twenty of them in it, don’t select
the red-wing variety, at least. Even if, as
Mother Goose relates, “when the pie was
opened the birds began to sing,” it would
pay you better to hear their song in March
when the marshes are greening—the gay
jubilee of the bachelors awaiting their la-
dies—“O-ka-lee-ke, kong-ker-eee.”

. b
O

The ruffed grouse drums his “long roll”
by beating his wings with such force that
the leaves and grasses in front of the
drum-log are ﬂattened down by the blast
of disturbed air. This drumming period of
the cock partridge is during mating season.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

PageZQO
Our Dumb Animals

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston ofﬁce; 180 Longwood Av-
enue, Boston, Mass., to which all communications

should be addressed.

Dr. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON, Editor
WILLIAM M. MORRILL, Assistant

 

AUGUST, 1933

 

FOR TERMS, see back cover.

AGENTS to take orders for Our Dumb Animals are
wanted everywhere. Liberal commissions are offered.

EDITORS of all periodicals who receive this pub-
lication this month are invited to reprint any of the
articles with or without credit.

MANUSCRIPTS relating to animals, particularly
prose articles of about three hundred words, are solic-
ited. We do not wish to consider prose manuscripts
longer than 800 words, nor verse in excess of thirty-
six lines. The shorter the better. All manuscripts
should be typewritten and an addressed envelope with
full return postage enclosed with each offering.

 

 

If You Must Kill a Tortoise

HIS animal is one of the most difﬁcult

to put to sleep humanely. Chloroform,
vapor or gas of any kind has little effect
upon it. An English exchange, facing this
problem, consulted Sir Peter Chalmers Mit-
chell, of the London Zoo, and his curator,
and this is the best answer that could be
obtained:

“No matter what vapor is used a lethal
chamber is unsatisfactory because they
(tortoises) appear to be able to suspend
their respirations for so long.

“If the operator has the skill, a hypo-
dermic injection of, say a cubic centimetre
of chloroform into the loose skin of the
armpit or the groin is the most satisfactory
way of killing them.

“Apart from that, decapitation is as good
as any, but one has to remember that there
will be a great deal of movement after
death. Except in the case of injury, it is
probable that it is unnecessary to kill a
tortoise which is not so weak that its head

cannot be pulled easily from the shell to
do this.”

American Horses for Spanish
Bull-fights? No!

Newspapers continue to publish the false
statement that horses are shipped from this
country to be used in Spanish bull-ﬁghts.
We have repeatedly contradicted this on the
authority of the United States Department
of Agriculture. Time was the last offender.
It wanted assurance from headquarters.
This has been deﬁnitely given by the Chief
of the Bureau of Animal Industry. If any
one needs further conﬁrmation or denial of
the truth of the statement let him write to
United States Department of Agriculture,

IBureau of Animal Industry, Washington,

The Rubber Plaything Fatal

Reports come to us of many fatal results
to dogs from playing with rubber balls,
dolls or other similar toys. One friend
writes of ﬁve people known to her whose
dogs had died from swallowing pieces of
such toys. Post mortems disclosed the rub-
ber as the cause of death. We hope all dog-

owners who see this will guard against this
danger.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

The International Dental
Federation

UR readers will recall the widespread

protest that was aroused some time
ago by the announcement of the above-
named Federation of a series of experi-
ments on the teeth of dogs. These experi-
ments promised to involve such suffering on
the part of the dogs that nearly all the
humane organizations of the world joined
in indignant protest. The following letter
to Captain‘E. G. Fairholme, Secretary of
the Royal S. P. C. A., England, from Dr.
Nord, the General Secretary of the Inter—
national Dental Federation at The Hague,
seems to settle clearly the question as to
the abandonment of the experiments on
dogs:

The Hague
May 13th, 1933

The R. S. P. C. A.
105, J ermyn Street
London, S.W.1.
DEAR SIRS,

I can answer you that the question of
the dental experiments on dogs will cer-
tainly not come up for discussion at Edin-
burgh, as it was decided at our meeting in
Zurich last year to alter the conditions of
the competition so that experiments on dogs
are not necessary. Further, as far as I
know up till now no one has asked the con-
sent of experiment on any animal whatever.

Yours faithfully,
CH. F. L. NORD,
Secretary-General

Work and Meat

A writer in the London Daily Express
says that Mussolini is a vegetarian, a tee-
totaler and never smokes. That his early
meal after rising is solely a glass of milk,
that he has one full meal a day, at noon,
that at night his supper is of fresh fruit
only. Another glass of milk is drunk some—
time through the day. That he is a worker
whose work burns up a lot of energy no one
doubts. The ﬁery, physical-force-consuming
Hitler, the same writer tells us, is also a
vegetarian.

A Beautiful Prayer

, The following prayer, The Animal World
tells us, is used at Morning Prayer on Sun-
days at Wycliffe College, England. It was
written by the Bishop of Coventry.

“0 Father in Heaven, whose tender mer-
cies are over all Thy works, without whose
knowledge not a sparrow falls, and by
whose gentleness we are made great, may
the spirit of Thy compassion so inspire
the minds and hearts of men, that all Thy
lesser creatures here shall be delivered
from the bondage of cruelty and fear.
Prosper everycause of mercy, and purge
each heart‘of selﬁshness, that the whole

earth may rejoice in the coming of the sons
of God.”

Our readers are urged to clip from “Our
Dumb Animals” various articles and re-
quest their local editors to republish.
Copies so mutilated will be made good by
us upon application.

Aug. 1933
Wild Life and the Reforest-

ation Army
FRANK H. CROSS

TTENTION was called recently to
the serious destruction of wild ani-
mals and birds in areas occupied by the
reforestation army. The complaint is made
by M. P. Skinner, ﬁeld naturalist, and au-
thor of “The Yellowstone Nature Book.”
The men who have been colonized in the
forest regions, it is pointed out, are mostly
residents of cities and thus have no back-
ground of forest life.

“Far too many of these men,” he says,
“have but one idea in respect to the crea-
tures they see—that is, to kill them when-
ever the opportunity off'ers. Their spare
time cannot be devote-d to the forms of
recreation to which they are accustomed,
and ennui and lack of occupation too often
lead them to thoughtless, needless and cruel
persecution of such wild creatures as exist
in the vicinity.”

Complaints have come from certain States
already, and Mr. Skinner feels that the
condition must prevail in all or nearly all
the camps. The fault, apparently, is not
viciousness, but simply thoughtlessness and
lack of instruction.

In the summer when wild creatures are
caring for their young, to kill the parent
stock means that the young will starve to
death, and so the destruction is many times
multiplied at this time of year.

The remedy for these conditions seems
to lie in the enforcement of regulations
against the possession and use of ﬁrearms,
but perhaps far more could be done by hu-
mane organizations, by instituting a. move—
ment to instruct the reforestation recruits
that conservation of game and wild life is
as close to the hearts and desires of most
Americans as forest conservation itself.
Men should learn and take pride in such
an attitude. Instruction against the danger
and loss of forest ﬁres has reached nearly
every person who has traveled outside the
boundaries of a city, and similar instruc-
tion against the destruction of wild. life
could easily be disseminated and given force
and direction by friends of animals and
birds everywhere. Requests for reading
matter for the men in reforestation camps
are received regularly in the cities. What
better plan than to send them magazines
which point out the beauty and charm of
our wild life and instill in them a desire
to protect rather than destroy wild animals
and birds? As Mr. Skinner points out, they
should be taught to feel that the eradica-
tion of many of the wild creatures, rang-
ing in size from mountain lions to mice,
is not a part of their duty. If they are en-
couraged to kill, or even permitted to kill,
wild creatures, far more game and useful
or harmless species than injurious ones will
be destroyed.

Mr. Skinner insists that all Federal and
State lands in and about the areas of re—
forestation operations should be declared
temporary sanctuaries for all wild life, not
merely for game, and that many land
owners in the vicinity will be glad to have
their lands so protected against trespass
and other law violations.

A great deal of the destruction complained
about is at this season a violation of the

(Continued on page 128, column 3)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 
    

 

 

‘Glhe gmerican

Eumane ZEducation ﬁociety DR. FRANCIS 11. ROWLE‘Y. President

GLORY TO
GOD,
PEACE ON EARTH,
KINDNESS, JUSTICE
AND MERCY TO
EVERY LIVING
CREATURE.

   
 
       
   

JOHN R. )IACOMDER. Chairman of the Board

Ofﬁcers of Both Societies r(illie gBHassachusetts ﬁociety
_ FOR THE
GUY RICHARDSON Secretary ﬁrevenﬁon ofﬂlruelty t0 9111111318

 

ALBER’I‘ x\. P()LL:\ RI). Treasurer
COUNSEL PEAlioDY. 13R OVVN, ROWLEY & STOREY

CAngell CMemorial CAnimal iﬁospital

Operated by the Massachusetts S. P. C. A.

(Eur dBumb CAnimals
Founded by CEO. T. ANCELL in 1868
Ofﬁcial organ of all our Societies

170.184 Longwood Avenue, Boston

 

 

Springﬁeld Branch, 53-57 Bliss Street, Springﬁeld, Mass.

 

Trustees of Permanent Funds of Both Societies

CHARLES G. DANCROF’I‘.’ Vice-Prvsident, United Shoe Machinery Corporation
PHILIP STOCKTON. President, First National Bank of Boston .

The Societies have had bequests from one thousand and seventy deceased friends.
The Societies are supported by gifts, memberships and legacies.

The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals has sixteen
prosecuting officers throughout the State.

RATES OF MEMBERSHIP IN EACH SOClETY—Active Life, $100; Associate Life, $50;
Sustaining Annual, $20; Active Annual, $10; Associate Annual, $5; Annual,$1.
Children’s $.75. . ‘ ‘ '

All members receive OUR DUMB ANIMALS free.

It gives us great pleasure to present this volume on behalf of the above Societies.

The Massachusetts S. P. C. A. is greatly in need of funds for the extension of its general work,
especially throughout the country districts of the state where cruelty exists to a degree greater even

than in the cities, particularly in the failure properly to feed and house domestic animals.

The reader’s attention is particularly called to the work of the Angell Memorial Animal
Hospital and Dispensary, opened March 1, 1915. A branch of this institution was opened at
53-57 Bliss Street, Springfield, Mass., in December, 1931. Altogether we have treated 383,805
animals, 116,556 in the Hospital and 267,249 in the Dispensary.

 

 

 

    

 

......




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 141;

Various Sparrows

ETHEL MARY BAKER

O some, any kind of sparrow is just

another sparrow. Filthy little feath-
ered pests, noisy and quarrelsome. True, the
common English sparrow was never blessed
with a musical voice and he perpetually
carries a chip on his shoulder, but he has
his good points too. But even though he
didn’t would hardly be a logical reason for
condemning all of the many kinds of spar-
rows.

Silver sweet notes often ﬂoat through my
window when it is pitch dark outside and I
listen enthralled to our northern nightin-
gale, the Gambel sparrow, singing. One
often sees him with a ﬂock of English spar-
rows. He is a triﬂe larger and is easily
distinguished by bars of black and white on
the crown of his head.

The western lark sparrow closely resem-
bles the Gambel, having those same black
and white bars but with an added patch of
rich chestnut on each side of his head. He
likes either a low bush or a clump of grass
to nest in. The Baird sparrow, a common
inhabitant of the prairies, likes solitude and
also nests upon the ground. He is a trim
little fellow with rather pointed tail feath-
ers. The western grasshopper sparrow also
prefers dry ﬁelds and pastures where he
is assured of a sumptuous living. His sweet,
low, lisping song may be heard at almost
any time during a summer day.

The plucky little desert sparrow braves
the heat of arid regions for the privilege of
building his nest in sage or cactus, and per-
haps because he, too, loves the quiet, the
night breezes whispering across the desert.
The shy little sage sparrow also haunts
regions where sage is abundant, but his
song is seldom heard except during the
mating season. The western vesper sparrow
is really a handsome fellow with chestnut
shoulders and outer white tail feathers. He
sings late in the evening.

Song sparrows, whose lovely melody may
be heard in every state in the Union, vary
in color in different localities, being darker
in the moisture-laden regions and lighter in
the arid. Tree sparrows, who nest in the far
north, visit us only during the winter, ﬁnd-
ing their food in clusters of weed seeds
rising above the snow. The song of the male
resembles that of the goldﬁnch and he is
not at all backward about entertaining us
at a time when most of our birds are
songless.

Join the Jack London Club and help stop

the cruelty of trained animal acts.

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

Copyright by E. D. Putnam

BRIGHT EYES

Vacationists everywhere are warned not
to abandon their pets. The sight of numer-
ous neglected and starving cats at seashore
and other resorts is a sad reﬂection upon
the thoughtlessness and selﬁshness of sum-
mer visitors.

 

Annuity Bonds

Many men and women, lovers of animals,
are getting both happiness and material
comfort from our two Societies’ Annuity
Bonds. These bonds are absolutely safe.
They pay from 4 to 8%——according to your
age. Send the coupon for a free folder
which gives full details. Fill in the coupon
and mail it now.

The Massachusetts S. P. C. A. (or)
The American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Ave., Boston, Mass.

Without obligation to me, please send
me your folder which tells all about your
Annuity Bonds.

.................................
...................................

...............................

The frog when engaged in seeking food
can see the insects only when they are
moving.

 

 

 

TO OUR FRIENDS

In making your will, kindly bear in mind that the corporate title of our Society is “The
Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals”; that it is the second
incorporated (March, 1868) Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals in the country,
and that it has no connection with any other similar Society.

Any bequest especially intended for the beneﬁt of the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital
should, nevertheless, be made to The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Annuals “for the use of the Hospital,” as the Hospital is not incorporated but is the
property of that Society and is conducted by it.

FORM OF BEQUEST

I give to.The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (or
to The American Humane Education Society), the sum of ............................
dollars (or, if other property), describe the property).

 

 

Sept. 1933

 

IN THE EDITOR’S LIBRARY

 

THE CAT IN THE MYSTERIES OF
RELIGION AND MAGIC, M. Oldﬁeld
Howey.

This is probably the most unique book
about cats yet written. From the rather
bizarre frontispiece, which shows the sacri-
ﬁce of an intruder in the shrine of the god—
dess Bast, to the ﬁnal chapter dealing with
Manx legends, we follow the cat through a
glorious and a terrible past. We cannot
list titles of all the thirty-ﬁve chapters, but
an idea of the contents may be obtained
from these selections: “The Cat and the
Serpent,” “The Cat in Chaldean and Egypt—
ian Magism,” “Christ and the Cat,”
“Witches in Cat Form,” “The Cat in Para-
dise,” “Demon Cats,” “Cats as Omen of
Death,” “Clairvoyant Cats,” and “The Cat
in Heraldry.” The author ﬁnds that the
emblem of the cat in symbolism is one of
the utmost antiquity. The cat is the sym-
bol of good and of evil, of light and of dark-
ness, of Christ and of Satan, of religion and
black magic, of sun and of moon, of father,
mother, and son. “The cat, like the serpent,
conveys, though necessarily imperfectly, the
thought that God is all.” The student of
life’s mysteries will ﬁnd in these pages much
of absorbing interest. There are many il-
lustrations, all printed on heavy paper,
which add greatly to the fascination of the
book.

354 pp. 15/net. Rider & Co., Paternoster
House, Paternoster Row, London, E. C. 4.

ANIMAL MANAGEMENT

A survey of the contents of this volume
indicates that a very thorough and complete
work was accomplished. It was prepared
in the veterinary department of the British
War Ofﬁce and bears all the ofﬁcial ear-
marks. Of its eleven chapters nine relate
to the horse—the horse as bred, trained and
employed for warfare. A single. chapter
treats of the donkey, camel, ox and water
buffalo, and .a ﬁnal one the prevention and
first aid treatment of disease. To those
who are in any way associated with the
horse or his interests this exhaustive
treatise, almost an encyclopedia, in itself,
and produced by experienced, practical
horsemen, will be a most useful and accept-
able guide. Numerous diagrams and photo—
graphs graphically explain many phases
of the subject.

379 pp., 3s., 6d., net. Published by His
Majesty’s Stationery Ofﬁce, Kingsway, Lon-
don, W. C. 2.

Our Dumb Animals

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston ofﬁce; 180 Longwood Av-
enue.

Address all communications to Boston.

TERMS
Postage free to any part of

 

One dollar per year.
the world.

Humane Societies and Agents are invited to cor-
respond with us for terms on large orders.

All dollar subscriptions sent direct to the ofﬁce en-
title the sender to membership in either of our two
Societies.

RATES OF MEMBERSHIP IN

THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
OR THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.

Active Life $100 00 Active Annual $10 00

Associate Life 50 00 Associate Annual 5 00

Sustaining 20 00 Annual 1 00
Children’s $0.75

Checks and other payments may be sent to ALBERT
A. POLLARD, Treasurer, 180 Longwood Avenue,
Boston.

Manuscripts should be addressed to the Editor,
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston.

 




 

Mar. 193-3 0 U 1%

DUMB ANIMALS

Page 47

 

 

\

g

a” “I .- . - I
:)l“§

5r“
[In

\\\ \‘

\\“\\\\

3;:"':_\w -' .
'
s“),

.,-
-:

I

l

 

“Possum’s” Birthday Party
WILLIE SNOW ETHRIDGE

ELIEVING that children will be kind-er to all animals if

they learn to love one, Mrs. Mary Ayers Harris of Macon,
Georgia, gives a big birthday party each year for her collie,
“Possum,” and invites all the boys and girls in her section of
town.

She has the party in April during Humane Week, for she
wishes to draw the attention of the young folks to the observ—
ance of those seven days. And not only do the children come
to Possum’s party, but also the ofﬁcers of the Humane Society
and many of the leading citizens of the town.

Possum receives his guests with his long white and auburn
hair brush-ed until it Shines like embroidery silk, his big
brown eyes wide with excitement and his big neck adorned
with an enormous bow of blue satin ribbon. He stands at the
top of the steps on the front porch and nuzzl-es his nose into
the hand of each little guest.

Near-by him there is always a gaily-decked table with a
large cake ornamented with the number of candles that Possum
is old. This year there will be thirteen candles burning there.

The guests, just as at a real birthday party, come bearing
gifts wrapped in white tissue paper and tied in blue and pink
and lavender ribbons. In these exciting-looking packages there
are usually big, juicy soup bones; nice hunks of red meat;
boxes of tempting puppyrets; cakes of sweet-smelling soap;
cans of dog food; several heads of lettuce, for Possum has a
weakness for lettuce and his friends all know it; boxes of
candy to tickle his sweet tooth, and, best of all, some quarters
to buy soup bones when the party ones give out.

The ﬁrst half-hour of the party is spent in taking pictures,
for the newspaper cameraman wouldn’t miss being there to
snap the venerable Possum frolicking with his guests. Possum
always manages somehow to give the impression that he is
dreadfully bored with this publicity business, but nevertheless
he is careful to sit up straight and look pleasant. He even

 

“POSSUM” AT HIS BIRTHDAY PARTY

.0

I

I,
‘35;
w

I l.

\“'

 

-'.-
[All];

‘ .
'{ﬁc
~'.

I

\

\.
\‘\
\§\
‘\
\x
\1

R

I!

9}
I‘ I [I
"II
l\\\

l7 ~
. ’I . '
l’lq‘"

"E?
.1

turns his head this way, and that way, to see if he will take a
good proﬁle. And he pricks up his ears and eases himself
around just a wee bit so his big blue bow will show.

Gay games follow the picture—taking. The children make a
ring around Possum and dance and sing. Possum licks his
lips and eyes them solemnly as they carol: “Happy birthday to
you . . . . Happy birthday to you . . . . Happy birthday, dear
Possum . . . . Happy birthday to you.”

Then the children play Farmers in the Dell, drop the hand-
kerchief and many other games. Possum excuses himself when
the playing is well underway, saunters to the porch and eases
himself down for a bit of rest. Being the honoree is rather a
strenuous business, his bowed head seems to say.

After the games there are saucers of ice cream, and Possum
eats right along with the guests, and cake and mints and all
kinds of good things.

As the guests depart, Possum wanders into the house to ﬁnd
a quiet spot; but Mrs. Harris rocks on the front porch with a
look of great content. She feels sure that she has shown vividly
several dozen little boys and girls just how human and lovable
an animal can be and that they will be much slower in the
future to harm one of any kind. With the memory of Possum
in their minds, they will be more loving, she argues, to all
dumb creatures.

Just a Dog

MAUD C. JACKSON

Tom has a fine Scotch collie,
Bill has an Airedale pup,

Bob has a big police dog
That tries to eat you up.

They say my puppy isn’t
Much bigger than a frog,

And hasn’t any ped—i-gree,
And so he’s just a dog.

But he’s a real smart puppy;
He seems to understand

The things they say about him,
For he comes and licks my hand.

And when I smile and pat him,
They know, and so does he,

That though he’s just a dog to them,
He’s all the world to me.

A lady writes us, “My little granddaughter, ﬁve years old,
just beginning to attend school, was asked by her teacher to
draw a picture of a dog house. Nev-er having heard of a dog
house, but familiar with the family dog, she drew a picture
of a dog with windows and a door in its side and a chimney
running up from its back.” That certainly must have looked
like a dog house.

All children who see this and are not more than ﬁfteen years
of age are asked to turn to page 37 and read about the prize
offers for photographs of animals.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 168

Our Dumb Animals

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston ofﬁce; 180 Longwood Av-
enue, Boston, Mass., to which all communications
should be addressed.

Dr. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON, Editor
WILLIAM M. MORRILL, Assistant

 

NOVEMBER, 1933

 

FOR TERMS, see back cover.

AGENTS to take orders for Our Dumb Animals are
wanted everywhere. Liberal commissions are offered.

EDITORS of all periodicals who receive this pub-
lication this month are invited to reprint any of the
articles with or without credit.

MANUSCRIPTS relating to animals, particularly
prose articles of about three hundred words, are solic-
ited. We do not wish to consider prose manuscripts
longer than 800 words, nor verse in excess of thirty—
six lines. The shorter the better. All manuscripts
should be typewritten and an addressed envelope with
full return postage enclosed with each offering.

 

 

 

A Crime Against Humanity

S it less than this—that of which those

great vested interests are guilty who, to
make money out of building war vessels
and manufacturing war materials, seek to
defeat the aims of Disarmament Confer-
ences and to block every movement for
peace among nations?

Have we forgotten the representative of
certain of these giant corporations—one
William B. Shearer, who played so large
a part in wrecking a former Disarmament
Conference? Whom did he represent? The
shipbuilders'who have divided among them-
selves most of the naval work carried on
by our Government in recent years. Think-
ing of that former conference for disarma—
ment and the presence there of this man

Shearer, one is tempted to recall that verse .

in Job, “Now there was a day when the
sons of God came to present themselves be-
fore the Lord, and Satan came along among
them.”

These ﬁrms, says “International Traffic
in Arms and Ammunition,” have just been
awarded 13 of the 21 war vessels to be built
in private yards under the 1933 program,
ﬁnanced, in large part, out of public work
funds. The value of these contracts is
considerably more than $100,000,000 appor-
tioned as follows: $27,304,000 to one; $37,-
454,000 to another; $38,000,000 to another.
Four smaller ﬁrms get the balance, some
$24,000,000.

It is not that we criticize such companies
for getting the contracts if ships must be
built and war materials furnished. It is
for such influence as they may exert to stir
up the war spirit and create the demand in
time of peace for ever increasing arma-
ments out of which they may add to their
proﬁts. And further. If history teaches
anything it teaches that increasing armies
and navies mean war and not peace.

More friends are needed to endow stalls
and new kennels in the Angel] Memorial
Animal Hospital. Payments of thirty-ﬁve
dollars for a kennel or seventy-ﬁve dollars
for a stall will insure a suitable marker
inscribed with donor’s name. Terms of per-
manent endowment of free stalls and ken-
nels will be given upon application to the
Massachusetts S. P. C. A., 180 Longwood

Avenue, Boston.

OUR' DUMB ANIMALS

Setting-up and Docking
Horses’ Tails

Col. Timmis’ Letter

Dear Dr. Rowley: At the recent fair and
horse show at London, Ont., there was very
strong evidence of the growing public feel—
ing in Canada against cruel tail fashions.
The ﬁrst night of, the horse-show in the
open-saddle class there was only one set
tail, and this horse was gingered. Upon the
owner learning that the two judges were
against such cruel practices and judged the
horses and not the tails, there was no more
gingering in any saddle or harness class
afterwards. In the hackney classes all the
young horses were undocked and all the
brood mares except one. In the harness
classes the undocked horses won many rib-
bons, including second in the open pairs.
In the harness ponies there was only one
docked pony shown and it did not get a ﬁrst.
All the tails in the saddle class except one
were natural. It was common talk in the
boxes and on the ringside how much better
the horses looked and how glad everyone
was that the fashion was becoming un-
popular. Sis justus et he timeas.

' Lord Grey and His Birds

This English statesman, whose name will
always be associated with the international
affairs that led up to and were ﬁnally re—
sponsible for the Great War, was widely
known as one of the world’s best lovers of
birds. His ancestral home at Fallodon was
a model wild bird sanctuary and the para-
dise of North Country naturalists. Water-
fowl were his special study and to see the
way the ﬂocks of wild ducks would gather
at his feet, ﬂy up to his hand and even
light upon him, it is said was most inter—
esting and amusing. Indeed, all sorts of
birds peopled the sanctuary he had fur-
nished them; among them the willow warb-
lers were so abundant in summer that he
called the-m the “Everlasting Birds” be—
cause their songs seemed never to cease.
His personal charm, recognized so quickly
by all who met him, would appear to have
been felt by the birds as well.

Not Speaking for All

Though the Catholic Times may be re-
garded as the chief organ of the Roman
Catholic Church in England, we know too
many of that faith to believe it voices the
opinion of the great body of Catholics. It
certainly speaks a different language from
that of Pope Pius XI who has shown him-
self a friend of animals both in word and
deed. Let us hope the writer of the follow-
ing in the Catholic Times of a recent date
speaks only for a small proportion of his
correligionists:

“I have therefore no hesitation in repeat-
ing my original statement: it is better that
a thousand animals should suffer, though
we are bound to reduce that suffering to
the least possible minimum (for we must
use and not abuse God’s gifts), rather than
that one human rational being should suffer
one moment’s unnecessary pain.”

Be Kind to Animals Week, April 16—21,
1933—Humane Sunday, April 15.

v ,, 5 ,_,*nra~_-_:.

N 07). 1933

Our Humane Education So-
ciety’s Service in a Vast Field

UR American Humane Education So-

ciety is affiliated with the Parent-
Teacher Association of America. The na-
tional humane chairman on the Parent-
Teacher Association board is Jennie R.
Nichols, one of our Society’s best known
workers. The following statement, recently
made by her, is worth wide repetition; it
stands for what she and our Society are

constantly being permitted 'to keep before

the members of this great Parent-Teacher
Association with its million and a half of
members:

“When the principles of humane educa-
tion are masters of the souls of men, the
day of violence, strife, class hatred, race
prejudice and war is done, and governments
and social institutions will have been estab-
lished on foundations that will abide.”

Helen Keller’s Tribute
to the Dog

This remarkable woman, deaf, dumb, and
blind, known the world over, reproduces in
her book, “In Scotland,” a letter she wrote
to the Duke of Montrose:

“Dogs are wonderful. I have a darling
Scottie, named ‘Ben—sith,’ which they tell
me is Gaelic for mountain fairy. She is not
as black as she should be, and she has funny
‘bow-legs,’ but her eyes are black diamonds,
and her little heart is pure gold. God
was very good to us when He made dogs;
they are the only beasties that truly love us.
They share our moods, they make every
pleasure sweeter, and when we are sad,
they wipe away our tears with silken ears.
They ask no questions, they make no criti-
cisms, the-y are happy loving us.”

9

Reuter is responsible for the following
statement:

Berlin, August 16.——Vivisection of ani-
mals of any kind is prohibited through
Prussia as from today by a decree of Cap-
tain Goering, the Prussian Premier. Heavy
penalties will be imposed upon anyone
transgressing the law on the subject, which
is to be drafted forthwith.

“Anyone guilty of experimenting on ani-
mals from today, will be placed in a con-
centration camp.”

The above must be interpreted in the light
of the following from a leading German
paper: “The law will take account of the
absolute necessities of science, and will in-
terfere as little as possible with the re-
searches of medical science.” Apparently
this law may mean much or little.

Retired Workers’ Fund

We are receiving gifts to the American
Humane Education Society as a trust fund,
the interest to be used for the beneﬁt of
ﬁeld missionaries and others who have
spent. their lives in promoting humane
education. '

We will welcome your contribution to
this fund. Please make checks payable to
Treasurer, American Humane Education
Society, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, and
specify that the amount contributed is for
the Humane Education Trust Fund.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 192

Fair of Women’s Auxiliary

HURSDAY, December 14, is the date

for the all—day Fair to be held at the
Copley Plaza Hotel, Boston, by the Wom-
en’s Auxiliary of the Massachusetts S. P.
C. A.

Luncheon will be served at 12.30; cards
Will be enjoyed from 2 PM. In addition to
the candy, household, white elephant, and
children’s tables, the chairmen of which
were announced last month, there will be a
ﬂower table, with all the new sedums in
fancy pots, with Miss Dorothy Gray, chair-
man; a handkerchief tree in charge of Mrs.
George A. Ramlose; and a food table under
the direction of Mrs. Herbert E. Prescott.

Mrs. Mary Nevery and Miss Margaret
Reade Martin will display their wares in
true Italian style, with appropriate song
and costume. Mme. Zenda will be present
from 2 to 6 RM. to forecast the future for
those consulting her.

A special feature will be booths for show—
ing up-to-date sport clothes for golf, ﬁshing,
riding, etc., and imported knitted models.

A large committee of the Auxiliary, with
the president, Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke,
as. chairman, is working hard to make this
occasion one of the most successful of the
many Fairs that have been held under the
auspices of the Auxiliary. Please send con-
tributions of money or merchandise to the
treasurer, Mrs. A. J. Furbush, 180 Long—
wood‘Avenue, Boston.

Everybody welcome. Copley Plaza Hotel,
Boston. Thursday, December 14, 1933.

Open Season on Beaver

An open season on beaver has been de—
clared in Pennsylvania this year in an effort
to reduce the estimated annual loss of
$20,000 to property owners as a result of
the animals’ alleged depredations.

Twenty-four pairs of beaver were brought
into the state in 1920, and the state board
of game commissioners asserts that now
there are 15,000 beaver in the state.

Some years ago this same state enacted
a bounty law on hawks. A heavy slaughter
of these birds followed for two years and
$90,000 was paid out for 180,000 bird scalps.
Then a plague of rodents and insects over-
ran the state and the vicious law was
quickly repealed. It was estimated that the
saving to the farmers in poultry amounted
to one dollar for each $1,205 paid out by
the state and that damages to the crops by
the rat and insect hordes cost the people
$2,000,000. Unwise legislation! Will Penn-
sylvania make a similar error in destroying
her beaver?

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

  

Dec. 1933

 

 

ON BEHALF

The Latest and Most Complete Film of its Kind

Made for the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals in 1933 by the University Film Foundation
connected with Harvard

Nothing ﬁner in ﬁlm photography, nothing superior in visual-
izing practical Humane Work has. ever been accomplished than in this
ﬁlm showing the activities of the Angell Animal Hospital of the
Massachusetts S. P. C. A., Boston, scenes at the Society’s Rest Farm
for Horses, Methuen, and glimpses of the Society’s Animal Shelters.

Two reels, 30 minutes. State whether regular 35 mm.,
or 16‘ mm. is required

Terms on application to Secretary

Massachusetts S. P. C. A., 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston

OF ANIMALS

 

 

 

 

 

Have You Seen the New

everywhere.

HUMANE CALENDAR FOR 1934?

Its colored picture, “Happy Land of Childhood,” attracts favorable comment

20 cts. per copy; two for 35 cts. or 12 for $1.80 to a single address.
AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY, 180 Longwood Ave.,

Boston

 

 

 

ing kindness to animals

 

 

Long on the market, widely distributed, but still going strong—The

American Humane Education Society’s superb, unsurpassed ﬁlm for teach-

THE BELL OF ATRI

Available in both safety and regular stock, also in Small 16-mm. size
for portable machines. Write for terms of rental or sale.

180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

 

 

 

Blow, bugles of battle, the marches of peace;
East, west, north, and south let the long
quarrel cease;

Sing the song of great joy that the angels

began,
Sing the glory to God and of good-'will to
man! WHITTIER

 

and that it has

 

TO OUR FRIENDS

In making your will, kindly bear in mind that the corporate title of our Society is “The
Massachusetts Somety for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals”: that it is the second
mcorporated (March, 1868) Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals in the country,

no connection with any other similar Society.
Any bequest especially intended for the beneﬁt of the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital
should, nevertheless, be made to The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty

to Animals “for theme of the Hospital,” as the Hospital is not incorporated but is the
property of that Socrety and is conducted by it.

FORM OF BEQUEST

I give to The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (or
to The American Humane Education Society), the sum of ..........................

dollars (or, if other property, describe the property).

 

 

   

 

m ‘ m4)
5%: f J7me a;
\ 1....

Our Dumb Animals

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston ofﬁce; 180 Longwood Av-
enue.

Address all communications to Boston.

TERMS

One dollar per year. Postage free to any part of
the world.

Humane Societies and Agents are invited to cor-
respond With us for terms on large orders.

All dollar subscriptions sent direct to the ofﬁce en-
title the sender to membership in either of our two
Societies.

RATES OF MEMBERSHIP IN
THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
OR THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.

Active Life $100 00 Active Annual $10 00
Associate Life 50 00 Associate Annual . 5 00
Sustaining 20 00 Annual 1 00
Children’s $0.75
Checks and other payments may be sent to ALBERT
g. POLLARD, Treasurer, 180 Longwood Avenue,
oston.

Manuscripts should be addressed to the E..itor,

?L0 gwood Avenue, Boston.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

wig/V I! w _

 

‘\\\w

 

 

 




 

 

 

Page 24

Our Dumb Animals

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston ofﬁce; 180 Longwood Av-
enue, Boston, Mass., to which all communications

should be addressed.
Dr. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON, Editor
WILLIAM M. MORRILL, Assistant

 

FEBRUARY, 1933

 

FOR TERMS, see back cover.

AGENTS to take orders for Our Dumb Animals are
wanted everywhere. Liberal commissions are offered.

EDITORS of all periodicals who receive this pub-
lication this month are invited to reprint any of the
articles with or without credit.

MANUSCRIPTS relating to animals, particularly
prose articles of about three hundred words, are solic-
ited. We do not wish to consider prose manuscripts
longer than 800 words, nor verse in excess of thirty-
six lines. The shorter the better. All manuscripts
should be typewritten and an addressed envelope with
full return postage enclosed with each offering.

 

 

New Legislation

HE following two bills introduced into

the Legislature of the Commonwealth
will surely receive the approval and en-
dorsement of all people interested in the
welfare of animals. We beg our readers,
residents of this state, to urge upon their
representatives at the State House their
approval of these two acts.

THE COMMONWEALTH OF
MASSACHUSETTS

In the Year One Thousand Nine Hundred
and Thirty-three

AN ACT RELATIVE TO CUTTING THE
MUSCLES OR TENDONS OF HORSES’
TAILS AND THE SHOWING OF
HORSES.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House
of Representatives in General Court as-
sembled and by the authority of the same
as follows:

Section 1. Chapter two hundred seventy
two of the General Laws is hereby amended
by inserting after section eighty B the fol-
lowing new sections:

Section 80 C. Whoever cuts the tendons
or muscles of a horse’s tail, or whoever
causes or procures to be cut the tendons or
muscles of a horse’s tail, other than as shall
be certiﬁed to be reasonably necessary by

a duly registered veterinarian, or whoever

places upon a horse or causes to be placed
upon a horse any mechanical device for the
purpose of setting up a horse’s tail shall
be punished by a ﬁne of not more than two
hundred ﬁfty dollars. The possession of a
horse with a tail the muscles or tendons of
which have been cut and with the wound
resulting therefrom unhealed conﬁned upon
the premises or in charge or custody of any
person shall be prima facie evidence of a
violation of this section by the person in
control of such premises or by the person
having such charge or custody.

Section 80 D. Whoever shows or exhibits
or procures to be shown or exhibited at any
horse show or exhibition in the Common-
wealth a horse with a tail the muscles or
tendons of which have been cut as afore-
said, or with a docked tail, shall be punished
by a ﬁne of not more than two hundred
ﬁfty dollars.

Section 80 E. The provisions of section
eighty D of this act shall not apply to the

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

showing or exhibition of a horse with a
tail the muscles or tendons of which have
been cut as aforesaid or whose tail has been
docked prior to January 1, 1934, provided
that its owner, if a resident of this Com—
monwealth, procures it to be registered with
the clerk of the city or town in which he or
she resides, or if a non-resident with the
Director of the Division of Animal Industry
of the Department of Conservation. Appli—
cations for such registration shall be made
upon forms approved by the said Director.
A city or town clerk or the said Director,
if satisﬁed that the applicant is entitled to
the registration of a horse as aforesaid, and
that the statements contained in his appli-
cation therefor are true, shall upon pay-
ment of a fee of one dollar register such
horse as aforesaid and grant the owner a
certiﬁcate thereof.

THE COMMONWEALTH OF
MASSACHUSETTS

In the Year One Thousand Nine Hundred
and Thirty-three

AN ACT TO PROHIBIT OR REGULATE
THE USE OR EXHIBITION OF DUMB
ANIMALS UPON ANY STREET, HIGH-
WAY OR PUBLIC PARK.

Be it enacted by the Senate and .House of
Representatives in General Court assembled,
and by the authority of the same, as follows:

Section 1. Any person who shall use any
animal as an attraction for the purpose of
soliciting alms, collection, contribution, sub-
scription, or donation, or shall use any ani-
mal as prize or award in the operation of
any game of chance or as object of chase
or scramble, or shall exhibit any wild ani-
mal upon any highway, street, or public
park or at any fair, exhibition, or place of

amusement, recreation or entertainment for

the purpose of attracting trade, or shall
have in his custody any animal for such
purpose, shall be ﬁned not more than $100
or imprisoned for not more than thirty days
or both. But no provision of this act shall
apply to the exhibition of any animal by
any educational institution or in a zoolog-
ical garden or in connection with a. theatri-
cal exhibition or circus, or the exhibition of
domestic animals at state or county fairs
or to what are commonly known as horse,
dog, or poultry shows.

On the Present Craze for

Tail-mutilation

ROM an article on the Royal Winter
Fair, Toronto, in the Bridle and Golfer,
December, 1932.

. . . The only criticism of these excellent
classes is the disappointing fact that so far
nothing has been done to encourage a na-
tural tail in show harness and saddle horses.
It is extraordinary why fashion thus muti-
lates these otherwise beautiful animals. No
one with a grain of humanity, be he
“horsey” or not, can condone the abbrevi-
ated stumps and broken tails. One of the
most prominent exhibitors at the Fair has
two beautiful harness ponies which cannot
be shown at most big shows simply because
they suﬁer the unforgivable crime of hav-
ing graceful natural tails. Although their
conformation and action are nearly perfect,
some of the most prominent judges of the
day will not place them in the ribbons or

Feb. 1933

even give them a second thought since they
are not mutilated to their taste. Such a de-
plorable state of affairs cannot be condoned
by any true horse—lover, and it is high time
the matter came to a head. England has
already taken the ﬁrst step forward. At the
London Hackney Show, held recently, horses
with undocked tails were given every con—
sideration. At the top of each page in the
catalogue was printed: “Horses may be
shown in all these classes undocked.” Eng-
land is far older in the breeding and show-
ing of ﬁne hackneys than America; if she
can see the error of her ways, surely this
continent should follow suit.

John Burroughs and the
Apple

The apple is indeed the fruit of youth. As
we grow old we crave apples less. It is an
ominous sign. When you are ashamed to be
seen eating them on the street; when you
can carry them in your pocket and your
hand not constantly ﬁnd its way to them;
when your neighbor has apples and you
have none, and you make no nocturnal Visits
to his orchard; When your lunch-basket is
without them and you can pass a winter’s
night by the ﬁreside with no thought of the
fruit at your elbow, then be assured you are
no longer a boy either in heart or years.

President Coolidge

Endorsed Be Kind to Animals Week in
Letter to Dr. Rowley

THE WHITE HOUSE
WASHINGTON
March 3, 1924
My Dear Doctor Rowley:

Accept my thanks for your note which
brings to my attention the fact that “Be
Kind to Animals Week” is to be observed
this year, April 6-12th inclusive. I am
glad to learn that the celebration of this
week is becoming more and more an affair
of national interest and concern. The
cause is one which thoroughly deserves all
the consideration that can possibly be given
to it, and I hope that this year’s will be the
most widespread and general observance
that has yet been held.

Most sincerely yours,

(Signed) CALVIN COOLIDGE

When Governor of Massachusetts Mr.
Coolidge addressed the following letter,
dated April, 1920, to Dr. Rowley:

My dear Mr. President:

I am glad to endorse the action of the
Humane Societies of the United States
which have set apart the week beginning
April 12 and ending April 17, and which is
known nationally as “Be Kind to Animals
Week.” The inﬂuence of the observance of
such a Week upon the characters of the
pupils in our public schools and upon all
citizens must be for the development of a
nobler and ﬁner kind of citizenship.

However much the Humane Societies
have doneifor animals, they have done
vastly more for mankind through the re-
action upon them of the spirit of justice
and kindness shown to the creatures below
them.

Very truly yours,

CALVIN COOLIDGE

.‘ . - Air...

 




 

 

 

 

Page .48

To “Buddy”

LIL‘LIAN G. BALDWIN
Sometimes a shadow seems to lick my hand,
A cold, wet nose is thrust againstimy
knee,
Two eager, loving eyes, from out the haze
Of Spirit land, seek mine appealingly.

And then the noble dog, that once you were,
Comes trotting dOwn the path of memory,
To stir my heart unto its very depths
With thoughts of your great love, your
bravery.

Before the marked perfection of your traits,
I needs must bow my head quite shame-
fully
That I, though human, fall so far below
The measure of your faith, your loyalty.

A Lively President

ERNEST H. EATON

RANK H. FOSS 2nd, eight—year-old

grandson of Congressman Frank H.
Foss of the 3rd Massachusetts district, has
just been elected president of the School
Street School Band of Mercy, Fitchburg,
Mass. When he was told that he had been
elected president of the Band of Mercy he
remarked, “Well, I have got grandpa beat.
He is only a congressman while I am a
president.” Little Frank is very enthusi-
astic over his new position as president and
to the writer he unfolded his plans which
he believes will keep him busy for his term
of ofﬁce. President Foss stated that the
Band, as usual, will help all suffering ani-
mals. Right now the band is taking care of
a cat that has a broken leg. One of the
members of the Band found the cat and
brought it to the school. The members feed
it ﬁsh, meat and milk. .

“We shall try to have all who do not treat
dumb animals with kindness treat them
right. I shall ask the members of the Band
to work harder this year and put more
money in the bank as a starter toward the
erection of a Rescue League in Fitchburg.
We shall put on a sale of humane stamps
some time in February. For health and for
the sake of making more money we shall
sell some apples. We sent several Christmas
picture-books to children who were in the
hospital. We are to make several Burgess
scrap-books for sick children who are old
enough to read. Our ﬁne Christmas-tree
for birds has been trimmed with strings of
pop-corn, bread, suet and cranberries for
beauty, and we will keep it supplied all

Massachusetts Society for the Pr

to Animals “for the use of the Hospital,”

dollars (or, if other property,

 

TO OUR FRIENDS
In making your will, kindly bear in mind that the cor
. evention of Cruelty to Animals”: that it is the second
incorporated (March, 1868) Society for the Prevention of Cruelt
and that it has no connection with any other similar Societ
Any bequest especially intended for the beneﬁt of the An

should, nevertheless, be made to The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty

. as the Hos ital is not incor orated but ' th
property of that Somety and is conducted by it. p P 13 e

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

winter so the birds will have plenty to eat.

We are to keep our feed-box by our school

hall window ﬁlled with grain and feed. I"
am planning a big meeting for the Band

when we shall celebrate Lincoln’s birthday.

We have plenty of sunﬂower seeds to dis-»
tribute to the city forester and the game

wardens where they will do the most good.

The sunﬂowers were raised by a prominent

farmer of Fitchburg and gathered by

the Boy Scouts. We had lots of fun shelling

them.

“One thing,” stated young Foss in clos-
ing, “we will certainly keep busy this year
and will do all in our power to make the
School Street School Band of Mercy of
Fitchburg, Mass, the banner Band of New
England for we all love the work.”

Springfield Auxiliary

N January 27 twenty—ﬁve prominent

society matrons and club women of
Springﬁeld and Holyoke met at the Hospi-
tal of the Springﬁeld Branch, Massachu—
setts S. P. C. A., Bliss Street, and organ—
ized the Women’s Auxiliary of the Spring-
ﬁeld Branch. Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke,
president of the Massachusetts State Aux—
iliary, described the organization, growth,
social activities and work of that Auxiliary,
and also traced the history of the State
Society. Theodore W. Pearson, general
manager of the Springﬁeld Branch, dis—
cussed phases of his work and told how the
new Auxiliary could be of assistance. Tea
was served, with Mrs. Meda Young Alex-
ander pouring. These ofﬁcers were elected
to serve the new organization: Mrs. Donald
C. Kibbe, president; Mrs. George A. Bacon,
vice-president; Mrs. George S. Sabin, secre—
tary; Mrs. Aaron Bagg of Holyoke, treas-
urer; and Mrs. Theodore R. Ramage, chair-
man of ways and means committee.

The charter members of the new Auxili—
ary include all the above-named women and
Mrs. Joseph B. Ely, Mrs. George Ferguson,
Mrs. Dwight W. Ellis, Mrs. J. L. Wycoff of
Holyoke, Mrs. Leroy Halford of Ludlow,
Mrs. J. Harrison Conant, Holyoke, Mrs.
Richard A. Booth, Mrs. George W. Ellis,
Jr., Mrs. J. M. Towne, Holyoke, Mrs. Char-
les F. Lynch, Mrs. Joseph Redden, Mrs. E.
R. Whiting, Mrs. Edward D. Bagg, Holy—
oke, Mrs. E. S. Decker, Jr., Mrs. Harold
Duckworth, Mrs. J. L. Shannon, Mrs. Har-
old Adams, Mrs. M. F. Peterson, Mrs.
Frank G. Barney, Mrs. F. W. Winslow,
Mrs. Theodore W. Pearson, Mrs. Minnie
Taylor Mallary, Mrs. Gordon Seymour,
Mrs. Frank Cheever, Mrs. Stuart Robson,
Mrs. Morton B. Miner, Mrs. Carlton H.
Garinger, and Mrs. H. Leroy Ross.

porate title of our Society is “The

y to Animals in the country,

gell Memorial Animal Hospital

 

FORM OF BEQUEST

I give to The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelt
to The American Humane Education Society), the sum of ..........

describe the property).

y to Animals (or

................

 

Mar. 1933

65hr Earth at ﬁllerrg

' DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary
E. A. MARYOTT, State Organizer
PLEDGE

I Will try to be kind to all living creatures and try
to protect them from cruel usage.

The American Humane Education Society will send
to every person who forms a Band of Mercy of thirty
members, and sends the name chosen for the Band and
the name and post-ofﬁce address of the president who
has been duly elected, special Band of Mercy literature
and a gilt badge for the president.

See inside front cover for prices of literature and
Band of Mercy supplies.

NEW BANDS OF MERCY

Five hundred and twenty-two new Bands
of Mercy were reported during January.
Of these, 227 were in Illinois, 108 in Texas,
74 in Virginia, 22 in Vermont, 17 in Mass-
achusetts, nine in Pennsylvania, ﬁve each
in Georgia and Mississippi, two in Florida,
and one each in Missouri, Washington, and
New Brunswick.

Total number Bands of Mercy organized
by Parent American Society, 192,362

Mr. Talbot’s Work in the
Schools

Mr. L. Raymond Talbot gave illustrated
lectures in behalf of the Massachusetts S.
P. C. A. in January in the John Winthrop
school, Dorchester; William Barton Rogers
school, Hyde Park; junior high schools in
Revere, Chelsea, and West Newton; and
high schools in West Bridgewater and Ips-
wich. The total number of pupils reached
was 3,200.

During the past three years, since Mr.
Talbot has been representing the Society
in the schools, he has spoken before no less
than 69,670 pupils.

School Poster Contest

Many schools in Massachusetts have in-
dicated their intention to enter the annual
poster contest conducted by the Massachu-
setts S. P. C. A. All interested are cau-
tioned to have their posters at the Society
headquarters, 180 Longwood Avenue, Bos-
ton, not later than March 27. The best
posters will be exhibited at the Boston Pub-
lic Library, Copley Square, during Be Kind
to Animals Week, April 17-23.

Our DumbAnimals

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston ofﬁce; 180 Longwood Avenue-

Address all communications to Boston.

TERMS
Postage free to any part of

 

One dollar per year.
the world.

Humane Societies and Agents are invited to cor--
respond with us for terms on large orders.

All dollar subscriptions sent direct to the ofﬁce en-

title the sender to membership in either of our two
Societies.

RATES OF MEMBERSHIP IN

THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
OR THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.

Active Life $100 00 Active Annual $10 00.

Associate Life 50 00 Associate Annual 5 00‘

Sustaining 20 00 Annual 1 00:
Children’s $0.75

Checks and other payments may be sent to ALBERT

A. POLLARD, Treasurer, 180 Longwood AvenUe
Boston. I

Manuscripts should be addressed to the Ed't
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston. 101:.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

JULY 1933

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

HER STAUNCH PROTECTORS PhotobyE-D-Putnam

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THE MASSACHUSETTS SOCIETY FOR THE

PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS
AND THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY

 

 




 

 

 

 

Aug. 1933

 

Founded by Geo. T. Angel]. Incorporated March, 1868

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds
JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman, Chase Harris Forbes
Corporation
CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President, United Shoe
Machinery Corporation
PHILIP STOCKTON, President, First National Bank of
Boston

Prosecuting Ofﬁcers in Boston
Telephone (Complaints, Ambulances) Longwood 6100
L. WILLARD WALKER, Chief Oﬁ‘icer

HARRY L. ALLEN DAVID A. BOLTON

HARVEY R. FULLER HOWARD WILLAND
WALTER B. POPE

County Prosecuting Ofﬁcers

HERMAN N. DEAN, Boston,

Middlesex, Norfolk and Plymouth
FRED T. VICKERS, Lynn ' Eastern Essex
WILLIAM W. HASWELL, Methuen Western Essex
THEODORE W. PEARSON, Springﬁeld,

Hampden, Hampshire and Franklin

ROBERT L. DYSON, Worcester, orcester
WINFIELD E. DUNHAM, New Bedford, Bristol
HAROLD G. ANDREWS, Hyannis,

Barnstable, Dukes and Nantucket
EDWIN D. MOODY, Pittsﬁeld Berkshire

Rest Farm for Horses and Small Animal Shelter,
ethuen

W. W. HASWELL, Superintendent
Women’s Auxiliary of the Mass. S. P. C. A., 180

Longwood Avenue, Boston—MRS. EDITH WASHBURN
CLARKE, Pres.; MRS. A. J. FURBUSI—I, Treas.

Springﬁeld Branch—MRS. DONALD C. KIBBE, Pres.;
MRS. AARON BAGG, Treas.

Winchester Branch—MRS. RICHARD S. TAYLOR,
Pres.; MISS BESSIE SMALL, Treas.

MONTHLY REPORT OF OFFICERS
Miles traveled by humane ofﬁcers . . 13,098

Cases investigated .- ......... ‘ ..... 41 1
Animals examined .............. 4,368
Number of prosecutions .......... 10
Number of convictions .......... 10
Horses taken from work .......... 20
Horses humanely put to sleep ..... 18
Small animals humanely put to
sleep ........................ 1,402
Stock—yards and Abattoirs
Animals inspected .............. 35,352
Cattle, swine and sheep humanely
put to sleep .................. 3.

The Massachusetts Society for the Pre—
vention of Cruelty to Animals has been re-
membered in the wills of Susan S. Price of
Boston, and Ella F. Wade of Springﬁeld.

July 11, 1933.

The Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals at Canea, in the island of Crete,
famous if for no other reason than that
once its shores were trod by the feet of
the great apostle, is in sore need of ﬁnancial
help, so its president writes us. We will
gladly forward any contribution sent us
for this purpose.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

Angell‘Memorial Animal Hospital
and
Dispensary for Animals

184 Longwood Avenue Telephone, Longwood 6100

Veterinarians

F. DAILEY, v.M.D., Chief

H. SCHNEIDER, v.M.D., Asst. Chief
F. SCHROEDER, D.V.M.
. M. EVANS, D.v.S.
G. B. SCHNELLE, v.M.D.
T. O. MUNSON, v.M.D.
HARRY L. ALLEN, Superintendent

Springﬁeld Branch

53-57 Bliss Street, Springﬁeld, Mass.

THEODORE W. PEARSON, General Manager
A. R. EVANS, v.M.D., Veterinarian

 

 

 

HOSPITAL REPORT FOR JUNE
Including Springﬁeld Branch

Hospital Dispensary
Case-s entered 683 Cases 2,566
Dogs 541 Dogs 2,162
Cats 129 Cats 356
Birds 5 Birds 38
Horses 5 Rabbits 3
Snakes 2 Goats 2
Goat 1 Guinea Pigs 2

Horses 2
Operations 930 Squirrel 1
Hospital cases since opening, Mar.
1, 1915 ......................... 111,964
Dispensary Cases ................ 252,228
Total ......................... 364,192

MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A. IN THE
COURTS

Summary of Prosecutions for June

For cruelly working a horse that was un-
ﬁt for labor by reason of raw sores on
shoulders and debility, and subjecting him
to unnecessary suffering (two counts) a de-
fendant was found guilty on both and ﬁned
$25 for each Offense. He appealed.

The driver of an auto drove car over a
dog, injuring him internally and so severely
that owner was obliged to shoot the dog.
Driver did not stop or do anything for in-
jured dog. He was found guilty and ﬁned
$25.

For driving a horse whose shoulders were
afflicted with gall sores, ﬁne $10.

Failing to provide proper food and drink
for his dog, a defendant who had utterly
neglected him for ﬁve days pleaded guilty
and was ﬁned $25, to be paid at once or
committal would be ordered.

A defendant had saturated a broom with
kerosene Oil and poked a skunk with the
blazing weapon. Hie pleaded not guilty
then altered plea and paid ﬁne of $5.

For overcrowding fowl, offender was con-
victed in lower court and ﬁned $15. He
appealed and was later allowed to withdraw
appeal, pleaded nolo and had case ﬁled.

Having the charge and custody of a horse
and cow, defendant was charged in two
counts in inflicting unnecessary cruelty and
suffering upon each. He was found guilty
and ﬁned $50 on each count.

Working a horse unﬁt for labor on account
of sores under collar and lameness, (horse
had been taken from labor but was put to
work three days later.) Defendant guilty
and ﬁned $20, which was suspended to
September 1.

Failing to provide seven head of stock
with proper and sufﬁcient feed, defendant
guilty, case continued to December 1 for
disposition. Stock put in care of humane
ofﬁce-r.

Remember the Massachusetts 5. P. C. A.

in your will.

Page 121
Water for Work-Horses

Five watering stations for horses with
an attendant at each were started in Boston,
June 14, by the Massachusetts S. P. C. A.
They are located? at Winthrop, Post Ofﬁce,
Merrimack and India Squares and at Com—
mercial Street and Atlantic Avenue. Dur-
ing the ﬁrst two weeks 4,993 horses were
given water. How much this free service
means to the working horses during the
hot days of summer comparatively few
realize. Any contribution towards the main-
tenance of the service will be gratefully
received.

Wins M. S. P. C. A. Medal

Mr. W. J. Rosemond of South Boston,
Mass, was presented with the medal of the
Massachusetts S. P. C. A., on June 24, for
heroism in plunging into the muddy waters
of Hawes. Pond, Brookline, and swimming
some distance in order to rescue a dog
which appeared to be drowning. The ani-
mal clung to Mr. Rosemond’s back and it
was with considerable difﬁculty that it was
restored to its owner.

Is There Poison in Your

Food?

R. Angell, who founded our two SO-

cieties, was the friend of both man
and beast. He was among the pioneers who
began the warfare in this country against
adulterated and poisonous foods. He de-
voted many addresses and writings to this
subject. We are not, therefore, without
warrant in publishing the following:

A recent article in the Reader’s Digest,
entitled “Do You Know What You Are
Eating?” taken from the book, “100,000,000
Guinea Pigs,” written by Arthur Kallet
and F. J. Schlink, of Consumers Research,
must arouse in the mind of every reader
the question, “How much poison am I pay-
ing for every day in the food I eat, and
how far am I, thereby, undermining my
health?” The statements made by these
two students of adulterated and danger-
ous foods would seem to call for a serious
charge against the health authorities of the
Federal Government as well as against our
state and local health boards. DO these
health ofﬁcers, paid by the tax-paying citi-
zen, know the facts and permit them, or
are they ignorant of them, and, if ignor—
ant, what right have the-y to continue in
ofﬁce?

We shall do no more than quote from
these Consumers Research specialists who
certainly would not have dared to write
what they have unless they knew they had
the facts to back them.

“The federal law, contrary to popular
opinion, allows meat from tubercular ani-
mals, ‘even though every organ in the body
shows signs of disease,’ to be passed, pro-
vided the inspector is willing to consider
them slight and limited.”

“Almost every issue of the ‘Notices of
Judgment’ of the Food and Drug Admin-
istration reports seizures. In April, 1931,
for example, ﬁnes were levied for shipment
by a western packer of 2,000,000 cans of
partly decomposed salmon.

“For aught we know to the contrary, the

(Continued on page 128, column 1)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

, 7 , _.,, , > ”4»

    

 

 

 

OCTOBER 1933

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THE MASSACHUSETTS SOCIETY FOR TH

PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMAL
AND THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIET

 

 

I

‘I

I I
I

I

I

I

‘1 I

II

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

Nov. 1933

4:,

,
,
7‘1““ 0
i
l , —

‘\
§§ ‘ //////1‘ _ \L

\X ..
‘ “mum. .
\-. v‘ is
x “i“ 3. _ \\\
t (“I z w; \' \\ \
’ ‘ \\ V. ‘.\ \ \
‘ I - r, , \\ v\
/ J”

 

Founded by Geo. T. Angell. Incorporated March, 1868

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds
JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman, Chase Harris Forbes
Corporation
CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President, United Shoe
Machinery Corporation
PHILIP STOCKTON, President, First National Bank of
Boston

Prosecuting Ofﬁcers in Boston
Telephone (Complaints, Ambulances) Longwood 6100
L. WILLARD WALKER, Chief Oﬁicer

HARRY L. ALLEN DAVID A. BOLTON
HARVEY R. FULLER HOWARD WILLAND
WALTER B. POPE

County Prosecuting Ofﬁcers

HERMAN N. DEAN, Boston.

Middlesex, Norfolk and Plymouth
FRED T. VICKERS, Lynn Eastern Essex
WILLIAM W. HASWELL, Methuen Western Essex
THEODORE W. PEARSON, Springﬁeld,

Hampden, Hampshire and Franklin

ROBERT L. DYSON, Worcester, orcester
WINFIELD E. DUNHAM, New Bedford, Bristol
HAROLD G. ANDREWS, Hyannis,

Barnstable, Dukes and Nantucket
EDWIN D. MOODY, Pittsﬁeld

Rest Farm for Horses and Small Animal Shelter,
Methuen

W. W. HASWELL, Superintendent

Women’s Auxiliary of the Mass. S. P. C. A., 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston—MRS. EDITH WASHBURN
CLARKE, Pres.; MRS. A. J. FURBUSH, Treas.; MRS.
AGNES P. FISHER, Ch. Work Com.

Springﬁeld Branch—MRS. DONALD C. KIBBE, Pres.;
MRS. AARON BAGG, Treas.

Winchester Branch—MRS. RICHARD S. TAYLOR,
Pres.; MISS BESSIE SMALL, Treas.

MONTHLY REPORT OF OFFICERS
Miles traveled by humane ofﬁcers. . 13,094

Cases investigated ........... . . . 463
Animals examined .............. 9,423
Number of prosecutions .......... 12
Number of convictions .......... 10
Horses taken from work .......... 23
Horses humanely put to sleep ..... 46
Small animals humanely put to
sleep ........................ 1,705
Stock-yards and Abattoirs
Animals inspected .............. 43,374
Cattle, swine and sheep humanely
put to sleep .................. 17

The Massachusetts Society for the Pre—
vention of Cruelty to Animals has been
remembered in the wills Of Harriet D. Hurl-
but of Boston, and Emma W. Hoyt of Bel-
mont.

October 10, 1933

Nine-tenths of the unkindness to animals
is due to Want of thought and lack of
knowledge. Personal inﬂuence, backed by
knowledge, will better accomplish our pur-
pose than force, but we have the law be-

hind us.

OUR—DUMB

 

 

Angell Memorial Animal Hospital
and
Dispensary for Animals

184 Longwood Avenue Telephone, Longwood 6100

Veterinarians

H. F. DAILEY, V.M.D., Chief of Staff
R. H. SCHNEIDER, V.M.D., Asst. Chief
E. F. SCHROEDER, D.V.M.

W. M. EVANS, D.V.S.

G. B. SCHNELLE, V.M.D.

T. O. MUNSON, V.M.D.

HARRY L. ALLEN, Superintendent

Springﬁeld Branch
53-57 Bliss Street, Springﬁeld, Mass.
THEODORE W. PEARSON, General Manager
Veterinarians

A. R. EVANS, V.M.D.
H. L. SMEAD, D.V.M.

 

 

 

HOSPITAL REPORT ’FOR SEPTEMBER
Including Springﬁeld Branch

Hospital - Dispensary
Cases entered 864 Cases 2,706
Dogs 652 Dogs 2,206
Cats 194 Cats 418
Birds 10 Birds 67
Horses 3 Horses 7
Snakes 3 Rats 3
Sheep 2 Rabbit 1
Monkey 1
Squirrel 1
Goat 1
Mouse 1

Operations 1030

Hospital cases since opening, Mar.

1, 1915 ....................... 114,292
Dispensary Cases . ._ .............. 259,761
Total . . ' ....................... 374,053

MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A. IN THE
COURTS

Summary of Prosecutions in September

For permitting a dog to be subjected to
unnecessary suffering and cruelty by his
failing to stop after hitting him with his
guto, a defendant was convicted and ﬁned

25.

Another defendant who was charged with
the same Offense was allowed to plead nolo.
He also was ﬁned $25.

One who had charge and custody of a
dog was arraigned for failure to provide the
animal with proper-food, drink and shelter.
He was ﬁned $25 and given one month to
pay the ﬁne.

Driving a horse afﬂicted with a sore un-
der the saddle, ﬁne $25, which was sus-
pended for one month.

For cruelly beating a horse defendant
pleaded not guilty but was found guilty
and ﬁned $25.

For unnecessarily failing to provide two
dogs with proper food, drink and shelter,
an Offender was found guilty and the case
was placed on ﬁle.

Cruelly beating a horse, its owner was
ﬁned $10.

A defendant having charge and custody
of a horse was charged with knowingly and
wilfully authorizing and permitting the
horse to be subjected to cruelty and suffer-
ing. He was ﬁned $25 in lower court last
July. He appealed. Two months later his
case was placed on ﬁle in Superior Court.

A youth who had cruelly shot a dog,
which lived three hours after the act, was
summoned into court. He pleaded guilty to
the charge. The case was continued to the
next day for sentence when defendant was
allowed to change his plea to not guilty and
the case was ﬁled.

ANIMALS

 

 

 

Page 169

Annual Fair, December 14

T the regular meeting of the Women’s

Auxiliary of the Massachusetts S. P. C.
A., October 17, Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke,
President, and members of the committee
made arrangements for the annual Fair,
to be held Thursday, December 14, from
10 A. M. to 6 P.M., at the Copley Plaza
Hotel, Boston. Among the features will be
luncheon, bridge and afternoon tea.

Mrs. Clarke, general chairman Of the
Fair, will be assisted by Mrs. Frank Han—
son, chairman Of luncheon; Mrs. Arthur
Hurlburt, chairman Of bridge; Miss Dor-
othy Gray, chairman Of food table; Mrs.
Agnes P. Fisher, chairman of White Ele—
phant table; Mrs. Howard Woodward,
chairman of the Taunton table; Mrs. Rich-
ard Taylor, chairman Of the Winchester
table; Mrs. Charles F. Rowley, chairman of
the candy table; and Mrs. Florence A. Mor-
rill, chairman of the children’s table.

Donations for all the booths and contri—
butions of cash will be gratefully received,
and Should be sent. to Mrs. A. J. Furbush,
treasurer, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston.

All members and friends both of the Aux-
iliary and Of the Society are welcome and
urge-d to attend.

Winchester Auxiliary

Mrs. Richard Taylor, president Of the
Winchester Branch of the Women’s Aux-
iliary of the M. S. P. C. A., Opened her
attractive home, on Mt. Vernon Street,
September 29, for a “Wayside Sale.” Home
cooked food, aprons, handkerchiefs, dainty
boxes of catnip, new styles of note-paper
and many other novelties were Offered
which found eager purchasers. Mrs. Taylor

. was assisted by a committee of members and

friends. Among the features was a brief
address by Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke,
president of the Parent Auxiliary.

Springfield Auxiliary

Tuesday, October 3, was a gala day for
the Springﬁeld Branch of the Women’s
Auxiliary Of the M. S. P. C. A., when nearly
300 persons attended, the beneﬁt bridge held
at the hospitable home Of Mrs. Dwight W.
Ellis, 133 Long Hill Street. An enthusiastic
committee, headed by Mrs. Donald Kibbe,
president, and Mrs. John Whittemore
Harris, general chairman, were responsible
for the day’s success with the substantial
proceeds for the Society’s Animal Hospital
in Springﬁeld. Addresses were made by
Mrs. Clarke, president of the Parent Aux-
iliary, and by Dr. Francis H. Rowley, presi-
dent of the Society. Other guests included
Mr. Theodore Pearson, general manager of
the Springﬁeld Hospital.

For the Work Committee

Mrs. Agnes P. Fisher, chairman of the
Work Committee Of the Women’s Auxiliary
of the M. S. P. C. A., will be very grateful
for donations Of blankets and pieces of ma-
terials found about the house, Of no further
use, also gauze for bandages and sponges.
Cat pillows and pads for the cages Of all
small animals in the Hospital are made
from such gifts, which should be sent to
Mrs. Fisher, 180 Longwood Ave., Boston.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

PRICE 10 CENTS

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THE MASSACHUSETTS SOCIETY FOR THE

PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS
AND THE AMERICAN MAEE/ EDUCATION SOCIETY

72/

A

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

H. C. HAM
J. L. HAM
A. L. HAM

PAPER

10 High Street, Boston

 

 

 

 

 

Charles W. Broadbent Co.
SURGICAL SUPPLIES

Six Sixty Five Huntington Avenue
BOSTON - - - — MASS.

 

 

 

 

 

Why Tolerate Pimples .
and Blackheads when

CUTICUBA

Quickly Believes Them

Price 25c. each. Sample free.
Address : “Cuticura,” Dept. 5K,Malden,Ma.Il.

 

 

 

THIS SPACE
CONTRIBUTED

 

 

 

 

Established 1 868

JAMES FORGIE’S SONS

17 Merchants Row
Boston, Mass.
HARNESS.

ENGLISH SADDLERY. AND
EVERYTHING FOR THE HORSE

 

 

 

 

THIS SPACE
CONTRIBUTED
BY A FRIEND

 

 

 

 

 

A Safe Investment

Why not invest your money where
you will receive a fair return while
you live, and where, after you are
gone, it will be safe from contests and
devoted to a cause near to your heart?
Write for particulars of the Annuity
plans of either The American Humane
Education Society 01' Of The Massa-
chusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 180 Longwood
Avenue, Boston.

(This advertisement paid for by a New York
ﬁrm.)

 

 

 

 

 

 

Since 1832

J. S. WATERMAN & SONS, INC.

@nhertakers

BOSTON—BROOKLINE—CAMBRIDGE
City and Out-of-Town Service

 

 

 

Humane literature and

Band of Mercy Supplies

For sale by the American Humane Education Society and the Massachusetts S. P. C. A.,

180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass, at these prices, postpaid.

Titles in bold-face type are of books or booklets

Our Dumb Animals, 1932, bound volume $1.00

Our Dumb Animals, January to Decem-

ber, 1929, and 1931, bound in cloth,

special, each .................. .75
Colored Posters, 17x28 inches, .w1th

attractive pictures and verses, S1X 1n

the set .............................. $1.00
Be Kind to Animals Blotters, 6%X3%..$0.50 per 100

About the Horse

Black Beauty (English), cloth, 45 cents; paper, 20 cts.
The Shame of it——Mutilating the horse

by setting up his tail. Dr. Rowley’s

protest against this cruelty for fash-

ion’s sake. Four illus., 4 pp. ........ Free
What Constitutes Cruelty, Francis H.

Rowley ................ . ............ $0.30 per 100
Humane Horse Book, 32 pp., 5 cts.

each, or ............................. 5.00 “ “

The Horse—Treatment of Sores, Dis-

eases, etc. ................. _ ........ .60 :: ::
Humane Education Leaﬂet, N0. 5 ....... .50 ‘
The Horse’s Prayer .................... .30 “ “
The Bell of Atri, poem by Longfellow 50 “ ‘
The Care of Mules .......... . ......... .50 “ “

About the Dog

Beautiful Joe, new, illus., $1.50 ........ small, 50 cts.
Distemper in Dogs, Dr. Schneider ..... Free
Rabies vs. Running Fits, Dr. Schneider Free

Eulogy on the Dog, by Vest, post-card . $1.00 per 100
The Dog—Its Care in Health and Disease .60 “ “
Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 3 and 4 .50 “ “

What the Chained Dog Says ........... .50 “ “
The Story of Barry .................... .30 “ “
About the Bird
The Trial of the Birds, play .......... $2.00 per 100
Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 1 and 2 .50 “ “
How the Birds Help the Farmer ........ .50 “ “

The Air-gun and the Birds ..... _ ...... .50‘ “ “

About the Cat

The Cat—Its Care in Health and Disease $0.60 per 100
A Letter to Owners of Cats .30 “ “
The Cat in Literature ................ .50 “ “
Do Not Leave Your Cat to Starve ...... .50 “ “
“The Beggar Cat,” post-card, 6 cts. per

doz. ................................

.50 “ (€

About Other Animals

Prince Rudolf’s Quest, Kenniston, 150

pp., special ......................... boards, 50 cts.
The Strike at Shane’s, cloth, 30 cts. ..paper, 7cts.
Michael Brother of Jerry, Jack London, cloth, 75 cts.
Jack London Club Poster, 22 x 32 inches

one for 15 cts., two for 25 cts., ﬁve or

more ............................... each, 10 cts.
First Aid to Animals, Dr. Schneider, 8 pp. $1.00 per 100
What is the Jack London Club? .30 “ “
Foreword from “Michael Brother of

Jerry” ............................. .30 “ “
Gripped in the Teeth of Steel, 2 pp. 1.00 “ “
How to Kill Animals Humanely, 4 pp. 1.00 “ “
Humane Education Leaﬂet, No. 6, Ani-

mals ............................... .50 “ “
Humane Education Leaﬂet, No. 7, Farm

Animals ............................ .50 “ “

About Other Animals—Continued
Ways of Kindness ..................... $0.50 per 100
Why the Toad is so Useful ............ .30 “ “
Humane Education

The Humane Bulletin, for use in schools,
6 pp. ................. 12 cents each; ten for $1.00
Care and Kindness for Our Animal
Friends, 29 pp., paper covers, many
illus. ................. 15 cents each ; seven for $1.00
Kindness Picture Book, 32 pp.
15 cents each ; seven for $1.00
The Teacher’s Helper in Humane Edu-
cation, 32 pp.

....................... each, 10 cts.
Humane Education—for Parents and

Teachers, 20 pp. .................... each, 10 cts.
Picture Lesson Cards, each, 10 cts., set

of eight ............................ 35 cts.
“Be Kind to Animals” Pennants ........ each, 25 cts.
“Be Kind to Animals” Placards ........ each, 3 cts.
The Humane Idea, Dr. Francis H.

Rowley ................. cloth, 35 cts. ; paper, 15 cts.
Friends and Helpers (selections for

school use), Sarah J. Eddy ........... cloth, 96 cts.
Animals as Seen by the Poets, Guy

Richardson, 32 pp. ...... cloth, 35 cts. ; paper, 10 cts.
Address to Boston Public Schools ...... $2.00 per 100
Lessons on Kindness to Animals ........ 3.00 “ “

The B—K——T—A Club, play . . .3 cts. each ; ten for 25c.
Fred Changes His Mind, play, 5cts.each;six fOr 25c.
“And a Little Child Shall Lead Them,”
play ..................... 3 cts. each ; six for 15 cts.
Friends and Fur and Feather, play,
3 cts. each, ten for 25 cts.
Humane Day in Schools, with class-room
project, 8 pp. ....................... $2.00 per 100
Exercises for Humane Day, 1933 2.00 “ “
Humane Education the Vital Need, Dr.
Rowley, short radio address, 3 cts. each; 1.50 “ “
Our Little Brothers and Sisters, sermon
for boys and girls, by Dr. Jefferson,
pp. .............................. .50 “ “
Humane Education, What to Teach and

How to Teach It .................... .50 “ “
Early Lessons in Kindness or Cruelty .. .50 “ “
Outlines of Study in Humane Education,

8 pp. .............................. 1.50 “ “
A Talk with the Teacher .............. .50 “ “
The Coming Education ................ .30 “ “
Our Love for Animals, a Short radio

address ................... 5 cts. each ; 2.50 “ “
A Festival of Tender Mercies .......... .50 “ “
A Great Prophecy, Dr. Rowley ......... Free

Band of Mercy

“Be Kind to Animals” Buttons, three
styles—Band of Mercy, Humane So-
ciety, or S. P. C. A. ................ $1.00 per 100
Buttons—white star on blue ground with
gilt letters and border, one cent each 1.00 “ “
Badges, gold ﬁnish, large, 10 cts. ...... small, 5cts.
“Band of Mercy” Pennant ............. 35 cts.
Songs of Happy Life, with Music, S.
J. Eddy ............................ 50 cts.
Songs of Happy Life (56 pages, words
only) ............................... $3.00 per 100
Band of Mercy Membership Card ...... .50 “ “
How to Form Bands of Mercy ......... .50 “ “
Does it Pay, story of one Band of Mercy .30 “ “

Please enclose remittance with orders for less than $1

AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY, 180 Longwood Ave., Boston, Mass.

 

 

180 Longwood Avenue

 

 

 

 

THE BELL OF ATRI

The best known Humane Film ever produced

Reduced rates for rentals until October 1, 1933

American Humane Education Society

Boston, Mass.

 

 

 

 

nor. .‘A

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 122

 
  

   

7
6;
m
2

 
   

PEACE ON EARTH,
KINDNESS, Jusncc 0
AND MERCY 'ro
EVERY LIVING
CREATURE.

   
    
 

Founded by Geo. T. Angell. Incorporated, 1889

For rates of membership in both of our Societies
see back cover. Checks should be made payable to
Treasurer.

Ofﬁcers of the American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds
JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman, Chase Harris Forbes
Corporation
CHARLES G. BANCROF‘T, Vice-President, United Shoe
Machinery Corporation
PHILIP STOCKTON, President, First National Bank of
Boston

Foreign Corresponding Representatives

George B. Duff ................... Australia

Luis Pareja Cornejo .............. Ecuador

Charles A. Williams ............... France

Leonard T. Hawksley ............. Italy

Mrs. Mary P. E. Nitobe .......... Japan

Mrs. Marie C. E. Houghton ...... Madeira

Dr. A. T. Ishkanian .............. Mexico

Luther Parker .................... Philippine Islands
Joaquin Julia .................... Spain

Mrs. Alice W. Manning ........... Turkey

Humane Press Bureau
Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke, Secretary
180 Longwood Ave., Boston

Field Workers of the Society
Mrs. Alice L. Park, Palo Alto, California
Mrs. Rachel C. Hogue, San Diego, California
Mrs. Jennie R. Nichols, Tacoma, Washington
James D. Burton, Oakdale, Tennessee
Mrs. Katherine Weathersbee, Atlanta, Georgia
Rev. F. Rivers Barnwell, Fort Worth, Texas
Miss Blanche Finley, Richmond, Virginia
Rev. John W. Lemon, Ark, Virginia
Miss Lucia F. Gilbert, Boston, Massachusetts
Mrs. Jennie R. Toomim, Chicago, Illinois
Seymour Carroll, Columbia, S. C.

Field Representative
Wm. F. H. Wentzell, M.S., Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

Field Lecturer in Massachusetts
Ella A. Maryott

Annuity Bonds

Many men and women, lovers of animals,
are getting both happiness and material
comfort from our two Societies’ Annuity
Bonds. These bonds are absolutely safe.
They pay from 4 to 8%—according to your
age. Send the coupon for a free folder
which gives full details. Fill in the coupon
and mail it now.

The Massachusetts S. P. C. A. (or)
The American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Ave., Boston, Mass.

Without obligation to me, please send

me your folder which tells all about your
Annuity Bonds.

Name ....................... Age ......
Address ...............................
City ..................... State ........

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Fez American Fondouk

We greatly regret that we have felt it
wise temporarily to reduce expenses some—
what. If we are accepting fewer animals at
the Fondouk we are treating and doing
more than ever before throughout the city.

Monthly Report
May, 1933—31 Days

Daily average large animals 57.5

Forage for same $147.20
Daily average dogs 7

Forage for same 5.14
Put to sleep 7 1.64
Transportation 3.55
Wages, grooms, etc. 21.72
Inspector’s wages 21.72
Superintendent’s salary 116.82
Assistant’s salary 58.40
Veterinary’s salary 18.70
Motor allowance 11.68

Sundries 16.14

$479.85
Entries: 10 horses, 11 mules, 20 donkeys.
Exits: 9 horses, 12 mules, 53 donkeys.

SUPT’S NOTES: We have kept numbers down as
much as possible. The dropping of expenses will only
show on June’s total as we bought a new stock of
straw and barley this month.

Assistant’s and Inspector’s Report on the 70 Na-
tive Fondouks: Visits made during month, 539; ani-
mals seen, 5,167; animals treated, 1,745; animals
taken to American Fondouk, 10.

H. E. Si Mohammed Tazi, the Pacha of Fez, has
accepted to be our Honorary Patron.

A Fine Tribute to the
Fondouk

This letter from the Superintendent of
the Fondouk speaks for itself:

We had an interview with the Pacha and
with Mr. Lemaire, the Chef des Services
Municipaux. They both thanked us for
what we are doing in Fez and also for the-
way we are doing it. Mr. Lemaire men—
tioned that during more than two years he
had seen the way the Fondouk was being
run—always keeping in touch and good
relationship with his services. '

We talked over the best way of going on
with the Native Fondouk rounds, and came
to the conclusion to continue as we have
done up to the present. Supposing we ﬁnd
a very bad case and the owner does not
consent to have it taken to the Fondouk,
we send Larbi to the Pacha and he gives
us a man who issues an order that the
animal shall be sent to us.

Mr. Lemaire asked us to see the gentle-
man who was working at the new Municipal
regulations concerning domestic animals,
and he asked us if we approved of those
accepted, or if we had any suggestions to
make. We then went through all the articles
together. I never dreamed they would go
so far as to ask our. opinion on Municipal
Regulations.

Let’s Give It Back

Every once-in-a-while some fellow sug-
gests giving the country back to the In-
dians. Yes, we’ve taken the country from
them, destroyed most of the natural re-
sources and practically all of its original
beauty, killed off the game birds and ani-
mals and pollute-d the streams with our
ﬁlth; deﬁled the Indian himself with dis-
ease to which he was once a stranger, cor-
rupted his appetite and ruined his primi-
tive sense of right and wrong. Now, let’s
give the country back to his ragged remnant
and let him redeem it and purify his pos-
terity from the effects of civilization.

—The New Leaf

Aug. 1933

Our Work in Vermont

Miss Lucia F. Gilbert, ﬁeld worker of the
American Humane Education Society, spent
most of the last school year in the public
and parochial schools of Vermont, giving
651 of her characteristics talks, illustrated
by posters on kindness made by children,
in 500 different schools. As a result, 949
Bands of Mercy were organized, with a
total membership of 31,922. In visiting the
different sections of the state, Miss Gilbert
traveled 5,000 miles.

Istanbul S. P. C. A.

ROM Mrs. A. W. Manning, secretary,

we have received an excellent report of
the Istanbul (Constantinople) S. P. C. A.
for the year ending May 1, 1933. More than
twice as many dogs and cats were humanely
destroyed than in the preceding year, be-
cause the Society’s inspector was sent to
Scutari every week to destroy the dogs col-
lected there by the municipality. The con-
dition of horses in the city is greatly im-
proved. The law has been so vigorously en-
forced and the sale of small birds in the
markets so effectively prevented that fewer
lime-d sticks, nets and cages were conﬁscated.
The destruction of small birds has been
greatly reduced. Reformed laws are under
consideration in Ankara, which have en-
listed the interest and approval of the Min-
ister of Agriculture and of Sabri Bey, Di-
rector General of the Government veteri-
nary department. If these laws are passed,
animals in Turkey will have protection equal
to that of any European country.

Humane education is making steady pro-
gress in the schools. Nilufer Baha Hanim
has continued her talk eight times a month
in all the primary schools in the city and
in many of the suburbs. Several Bands of
Mercy have been formed as the result of
leaﬂets being printed in Turkish. For the
twenty-ﬁrst time the Angell Prize Speaking
Contest was given in Robert College, the
occasion being known asAnimal Day when
all the declamations, and the address, dealt
with kindness to animals. Acknowledgment
is made to the American Humane Education
Society for its practical assistance in this
work.

The report of the Hospital, conducted by
the Society, shows 1,274 consultations, 232
prosecutions, 945 loads lightened, 400 limed
sticks conﬁscated, and 1,266 requests re-
ceived to bring small animals to the insti-
tution, for the year. In the same period
there were humanely put to sleep 3,377
dogs, 3,583 cats, and 13 horses.

 

More friends are needed to endow
stalls and new kennels in the Angell
Memorial Animal Hospital. Payment
of thirty-ﬁve dollars for a kennel or
seventy-ﬁve dollars for a stall will in-
sure a suitable marker inscribed with
donor’s name. Terms of permanent
endowment of free stalls and kennels
will be given upon application to the
Massachusetts S. P. C. A., 180 Long-

wood Avenue, Boston.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

New England
Trust Company

Boston

Administers Bequests
to Charity
Education—Science

Main Ofﬁce

135 Devonshire Street
Corner of Milk St.

Back Bay Branch
99 Newbury Street

FREE Write for

BOOKLET N0. N—58~K
on the practical re-
moval of Worms in
Dogs of all breeds

     

CAPSULES

ﬁectz'vely remove

Large Roundworms and Hookworms

The safe, easy-to-give worm treatment.
Dependable. For free booklet WRITE TO

PARKE, DAVIS & CO.

Des/c N—58—K Animal Industry Dept... Detroit, Mich.
—— Drug Stores Sell Parke-Davis Products. ——

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

H. C. HAM
J. L. HAM
A. L. HAM
PAPER

10 High Street, Boston

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  
 

Actually
KILLS
’ FLEAS

Instead of
Stupelying
Them

PULVEX—ING your dog or cat
kills all the ﬂeas, lice, mites, and
keeps new ones off for days.
Harmless even if swallowed. Non-
irritating. Odorless. Used by over
a million dog owners. Guaran-
teed to satisfy you or your money
back. Sold by drug stores, pet
shops, 50 cents, or direct—-

William Cooper & Nephews, lnc_
[leptltlﬂll 1925 Clifton Av., Chicago

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Established 1868

JAMES FORGIE’S SONS

17 Merchants Row
Boston, Mass.
HARNESS.

ENGLISH SADDLERY. AND
EVERYTHING FOR THE HORSE

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The Friend of
Every Mother Sﬂa
a Who

“t‘c Values Her

(3 Children’s Skin Health
Price 25c. Sample free. Address:
“Cuticura,” Dept. 6K, Maiden, Mass.

v‘v‘vv

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THIS SPACE
CONTRIBUTEd

 

 

 

 

 

 

Since 1 832

J. s. WATERMAN & SONS, INC.

@noertakers

BOSTON —B-ROOKLIN Iii—CAMBRIDGE
City and Out-of-Town Service

 

 

 

 

 

 

Humane literature and Band of Mercy Supplies

For sale by the American Humane Education Society and the Massachusetts S. P. C. A.,

180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass, at these prices, postpaid.

Titles in bold-face type are of books or booklets

Our Dumb Animals, 1932, bound volume $1.00
Our Dumb Animals, January to Decem-

ber, 1929, and 1931, bound in cloth,

special, each ........................ .75
Colored Posters, 17 x 28 inches, with

attractive pictures and verses, six in

the set ......... ' .................... $1.00
Be Kind to Animals Blotters, 61/8x33/8..$0.50 per 100

About the Horse

Black Beauty (English), cloth, 45 cents; paper, 20 cts.
The Shame of it—Mutilating the horse

by setting up his tail. Dr. Rowley’s

protest against this cruelty for fash-

ion’s sake. Four illus., 4 pp. ........ Free
What Constitutes Cruelty, Francis H.

Rowley ............................ $0.30 per 100
Humane Horse Book, 32 pp., 5 cts., or.. 5.00 “ “

The Horse—Treatment of Sores, Dis-

eases, etc. .......................... .60 “ “
Humane Education Leaﬂet, No. 5 ...... .50 “ “
The Horse’s Prayer ................... .30 “ “
The Bell of Atri, poem by Longfellow .. .50 “ “
The Care of Mules .................... .50 “ “

About the Dog

Beautiful Joe, new, illus., $1.50 small, 50 cts.

Distemper in Dogs, Dr. Schneider .............. Free
Rabies vs. Running Fits. Dr. Schneider Free
Eulogy on the Dog, by Vest, post-card .. $1.00 per 100

The Dog—Its Care in Health and Disease .60 “

Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 3 and 4 .50 “ “
What the Chained Dog Says ........... .50 “ “
The Story of Barry ................... .30 “ “

About the Bird

The Birds of God, 318 pp., illus, ....... cloth, $0.45
The Trial of the Birds, play ........... $2.00 per 100
Humane Education Leaﬂets. Nos. 1 and 2 .50 “ “
How the Birds Help the Farmer ...... .50 “ “
The Air-gun and the Birds ........... .50 “ “

About the Cat
The Cat——Its Care in Health and Disease $0.60 per 100
Surplus Cats .......................... .50 “ “
The Cat in Literature ................. .50 “ “
Do Not Leave Your Cat to Starve ...... .50 “ “
“The Beggar Cat,” post-card, 6 cts. doz.

About Other Animals

Prince Rudolf’s Quest, Kenniston, 150

pp., special . . ..................... boards, 50 cts.
The Strike at Shane’s, cloth, 30 cts. ..paper, 7cts.
For Pity’s Sake ...................... paper, 15 cts.
Michael Brother of Jerry, Jack London, cloth, 75 cts.
Jack London Club Poster, 22 x 32 inches,

one for 15 cts., two for 25 cts., ﬁve or

more ............................... each, 10 cts.
First Aid to Animals, Dr. Schneider, 8 pp.$1.00 per 100
What is the Jack London Club? ....... .30 “ “
Foreword from “Michael Brother of

Jerry” ............................. .30 “ “
Gripped in the Teeth of Steel, 2 pp. 1.00 “ “
How to Kill Animals Humanely, 4 pp. 1.00 “ “
Leaﬂet, No. 6, Animals ................ .50 “ “
Leaﬂet, No. 7, Farm Animals .......... .50 “ “
Ways of Kindness ..................... .50 “ “
Why the Toad is so Useful ............. .30 “ “

Humane Education

The Humane Bulletin, for use in schools,

96 pp. ................. 12 cents each; ten for $1.00
Care and Kindness for Our Animal

Friends, 29 pp., paper covers, many

illus. . . ............. 15 cents each ; seven for $1.00
Kindness Picture Book, 32 pp. 15 cts. ; seven for $1.00
The Teacher’s Helper in Humane Edu-

cation, 32 pp. ...................... each, 10 cts.
Humane Education—for Parents and

Teachers, 20 pp. .................... each, 10 cts.
Picture Lesson Cards, each, 10 cts., set

of eight ................... ' ......... 35 cts
“Be Kind to Animals” pennants each, 25 cts.
“Be Kind to Animals” placards ....... each,3cts.
The Humane Idea, Dr. Francis H.

Rowley ................ cloth, 35 cts. ; paper, 15 cts.
Friends and Helpers (selections for

school use), Sarah J. Eddy .......... cloth, 96 cts.
Animals as Seen by the Poets, Guy

Richardson, 32 pp. ...... cloth, 35 cts. ; paper, 10 cts.
Address to Boston Public Schools ...... $2.00 per 100
Lessons on Kindness to Animals ....... 3.00 “ “

The B—K—T—A—Club, play . .3 cts. each ; ten for 25c.
Fred Changes His Mind, play, 5 cts. each;six for 25c.
“And a Little Child Shall Lead Them,”

play ..................... 3 cts. each; six for 15 cts.
Friends of Fur and Feather, play,

3 cts. each; ten for 25 cts.

Humane Day in Schools, with class-room

project, 8 pp. ....................... $2.00 per 100
Exercises for Humane Day, 1933 ...... 2.00 “ “
Humane Education the Vital Need, Dr.

Rowley, short radio address, 3 cts. each; 1.50
Our Little Brothers and Sisters, sermon

for boys and girls, by Dr. Jefferson. . . .50 “ “
Humane Education, What to Teach and

How to Teach It .................... .50 “ “
Outlines of Study in Humane Education 1.50 “ “
Early Lessons in Kindness or Cruelty .. .50 “ “
A Talk with the Teacher .............. .50 “ “
Our Love for Animals, a short radio

address .................... 5 cts. each; 2.50 “ “
A Festival of Tender Mercies .......... .50 “ “
The Coming Education ............... .30 “ “
A Great Prophecy, Dr. Rowley ........ Free
American College Presidents and the

American Humane Education Society.. Free

Band of Mercy

“Be Kind to Animals” Buttons, three
styles—Band of Mercy, Humane So-
ciety, or S. P. C. A. ................

Buttons—white star on blue ground with
gilt letters and border, one cent each 1.00 “ “

$1.00 per 100

Badges, gold ﬁnish, large, 10 cts. ....... small, 5 cts.
“Band of Mercy” Pennant ............. 35 cts.
Songs of Happy Life, with music, S.

J. Eddy ............................ 50 cts.
Songs of Happy Life (56 pages, words

only) ............................... $3.00 per 100
Band of Mercy Membership Card ...... .50 “ “
How to Form Bands of Mercy ......... .50 “ “

Does it Pay, story of one Band of Mercy .30 “ “

Please enclose remittance with orders for less than $1

AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY, 180 Longwood Ave, Boston, Mass.

 

 

 




 

 

Feb. 1933

 

Founded by Geo. T. Angell. Incorporated March, 1868

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds
JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman, Chase Harris Forbes
Corporation
CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President, United Shoe
Machinery Corporation
PHILIP STOCKTON, President, First National Bank Of
Boston

Prosecuting Ofﬁcers in Boston
Telephone (Complaints, Ambulances) Regent 6100

L. WILLARD WALKER, Chief Ofﬁcer

HARRY L. ALLEN DAVID A. BOLTON
HARVEY R. FULLER, HOWARD WILLAND
WALTER B. POPE

County Prosecuting Ofﬁcers

HERMAN N. DEAN, Boston,

Middlesex, Norfolk and Plymouth
FRED T. VICKERS, Boston Eastern Essex
WILLIAM W. HASWELL, Methuen, Western Essex
THEODORE W. PEARSON, Springﬁeld,

Hampden, Hampshire and Franklin

ROBERT L. DYSON, Worcester, Worcester
WINFIELD E. DUNHAM, New Bedford, Bristol
HAROLD G. ANDREWS», Hyannis,

Barnstable, Dukes and Nantucket
EDWIN D. MOODY, Pittsﬁeld, Berkshire

Rest Farm for Horses and Small Animal Shelter,
Methuen

W. W. HASWELL, Superintendent

Women’s Auxiliary of the Mass. S. P. C. A., 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston—MRS. EDITH WASHBURN
CLARKE, Pres.; MRS. ARTHUR W. HURLBURT, First
Vice-Pres; MRS. WM. J. MCDONALD, Second Vice-
Pres.; MRS. A. J. FURBUSH, Treas.; MISS HELEN W.
POTTER, Rec. Sec.; MRS. JOHN A. DYKEMAN, Cor.
Sec.; MRS. A. P. FISHER, Chair. Work Committee.

MONTHLY REPORT OF OFFICERS
Miles traveled by humane Ofﬁcers. 14,532

Cases investigated .............. 743
Animals examined .............. 4,306
Number Of prosecutions .......... 6
Number of convictions .......... 6
Horses taken from work . . . . . . . . . 23
Horses humanely put to sleep . . . . 101
Small animals humanely put to
sleep ........................ 787
Stock—yards and Abattoirs
Animals inspected .............. 34,053
Cattle, swine and sheep humanely

put to sleep ............. . . . . 37

The Massachusetts Society for the Pre-
vention Of Cruelty to Animals has been re-
membered in the wills Of B. Agnes McKenzie
of Cambridge, Sarah E. Wensen of Glou-
cester, and Florence H. Goodsell of Arl-
ington.

January 10, 1933.

Recently, in a questionnaire, 373 persons
were asked about the “Kellogg Pact,” and
34 per cent thought it had to do with a
breakfast food! —-Unity

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

Angell Memorial Animal Hospital
and
Dispensary for Animals

184 Longwood Avenue Telephone, Regent 6100

Veterinarians

F. DAILEY, v.M.D., Chief

. H. SCHNEIDER, v.M.D., Asst. Chief
. F. SCHROEDER, D.V.M.

. M. EVANS, D.V.S.

B. SCHNELLE, v.M.D.

. G. HALL, D.V.M.

HARRY L. ALLEN, Superintendent

Springﬁeld Branch

53—57 Bliss Street, Springﬁeld, Mass.

THEODORE W. PEARSON, General Manager
A. R. EVANS, v.M.D., Veterinarian

 

magma;

 

 

HOSPITAL REPORT FOR DECEMBER

Including Springﬁeld Branch

Hospital Dispensary
Cases entered 702 Cases 2,335
Dogs 538 Dogs 1,906
Cats 147 Cats 401
Birds 10 Birds 21
Horses 6 Guinea Pigs 4
Rabbit 1 Horses 2

Operations 9'76 Monkey 1
Hospital cases since opening, Mar.
1, 191.5 .................... 107,904
Dispensary Cases .............. 238,117
Total ...................... 346,021

MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A. IN THE
COURTS

Summary of Prosecutions in December

For cruelly beating a lame horse, a de-
fendant was ﬁned $25 and sentenced tO the
House of Correction for two months. He
appealed but later withdrew appeal, paid
ﬁne and had sentence reduced to one month,
which was suspended for one year.

Cruelly shooting a dog and maiming him
so severely with bird shot that he died from
the effects, defendant convicted and ﬁned
$15. .

Failing to provide proper and suﬂicient
food for hogs, offender ﬁned $10. He
appealed.

Failing to provide a horse, old, feeble,
and unﬁt for work, with food, shelter and
protection from the weather, defendant ﬁrst
pleaded guilty then retracted plea. He was
found guilty, ﬁned $10, ordered to pay $3
for the killing and burial of horse and given
three months tO pay his debts.

For non-providing three cows, two hogs
and a dog with proper food, Offender was
ﬁned $50. Sentence suspended for one year.

Cruelly beating a kitten so severely that
it had to be put to death, defendant con-
victed, case ﬁled on payment of costs of $8
imposed by the court.

For non-feeding his stock properly (de-
fendant refused to provide other than
meadow hay) ; he was found guilty in court
and his case was ﬁled when he purchased a
ton Of good quality hay.

Horsepower

“How do you determine the horsepower
Of a car?”
“By the number of horses it takes tO
haul it back to town.”
-—M0t0r Magazine

It is the business of the churches to make
my business impossible.
FIELD MARSHALL LORD HAIG

Page 25

President Coolidge on

Animals

N March 30, 1920, there was dedicated

in the Massachusetts State House, BOS-
ton, the ﬁrst memorial to animals ever
erected in a legislative building. It was a
tablet memorializing the horses, dogs and
other animals that served in the World
War, and was given by the Massachusetts
S. P. C. A. to the state. After an address
by President Rowley, the tablet was ac-

cepted by Calvin Coolidge, then Governor

of Massachusetts, who said in part:

“Those whom this tablet honors will
never know its meaning, its signiﬁcance,
or even of its existence, but we can under-
stand what it means and how much was
done for the beneﬁt Of mankind by these
creatures who suffered for our sakes.

“A merciful man is merciful to his beast.
A just man is just to all. We can Show
our own worthiness by an appreciation Of
what these creatures did and how they
suffered for our welfare.

“I accept this tablet as characteristic of
the teachings Of the Commonwealth. I ac-
cept it with an acknowledgment of the
generosity that prompted those who have
made it possible. I accept it as an expres-
sion of all that is highest and noblest in
the history of the Commonwealth.”

The San Francisco Society

ONGRATULATIONS to the San Fran-

cisco S. P. C. A. upon the completion
Of its new buildings, comprising one of the
best equipped plants for animal hospital
and general animal protection work to be
found in the country. We regret that space
is not available for a more detailed account
of the J. Sanborn Doe Memorial Hospital
for Animals, built in the Old Spanish style
Of architecture, and of the new administra-
tion building, typical of the California mis-
sion construction. The Society’s property
includes frontage of an entire block on
Sixteenth street, between Alabama and
Florida streets.

The new administration building, with
oak doors and mahogany woodwork making
a rich interior, is ideally adapted to practi-
cal uses, yet built with an eye to beauty.
Inscribed on the walls of the outer hall are
the names of some of the world’s greatest
humanitarians, including that of Geo. T.
Angell.

We believe that these ﬁne buildings of
the San Francisco Society are, in a sense,
a monument to Secretary Matthew McCur-
rie, who was on the job day and night dur-
ing the construction days, and whose long
and efﬁcient service with the organization
is now recognized in a way that must be
very gratifying to him.

More friends are needed to endow stalls
and new kennels in the Angell Memorial
Animal Hospital. Payments of thirty-ﬁve
dollars for a kennel or seventy-ﬁve dollars
for a stall will insure a suitable marker
inscribed with donor’s name. Terms of per-
manent endowment of free stalls and ken-
nels will'be given upon application to the
Massachusetts S. P. C. A., 180 Longwood

Avenue, Boston.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 1'70

 
 
  
     

GLORY TO
GOD,
PEACE ON EARTH,
Kmoness, JUSTICE 0
AND MERCY 'ro
EVERY LIVING
CREATURE.

 
 
  

  

7.

$2

m
2';

   
    

Founded by Geo. T. Angell Incorporated 1889

For rates of membership in both of our Societies
see back cover. Checks should be made payable to
Treasurer.

Ofﬁcers of the American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds
JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman, Chase Harris Forbes
Corporation
CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President, United Shoe
Machinery Corporation
PHILIP STOCKTON, President, First National Bank of
Boston

Foreign Corresponding Representatives

George B. Duff .................... Australia

Luis Pareja Cornejo .............. Ecuador

Charles A. Williams .............. France

Leonard T. Hawksley ............. Italy

Mrs. Mary P. E. Nitobe .......... Japan

Mrs. Marie C. E. Houghton ........ Madeira

Dr. A. T. Ishkanian .............. Mexico

Luther Parker .................... Philippine Islands
Joaquin Julia ..................... Spain

Mrs. Alice W. Manning ........... Turkey

Humane Press Bureau
Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke, Secretary
180 Longwood Ave., Boston

Field Workers of the Society

Mrs. Alice L. Park, Palo Alto, California
Mrs. Rachel C. Hogue, San Diego, California
Mrs. Jennie R. Nichols, Tacoma, Washington
James D. Burton, Oakdale, Tennessee

Mrs. Katherine Weathersbee, Atlanta, Georgia
Rev. F. Rivers Barnwell, Forth Worth, Texas
Miss Blanche Finley, Richmond, Virginia
Rev. John W. Lemon, Ark, Virginia

Miss Lucia F. Gilbert, Boston, Massachusetts
Mrs. Jennie R. Toomim. Chicago, Illinois
Seymour Carroll, Columbia, S. C.

Field Representative

Wm. F. H. Wentzell, M.S., Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

Field Lecturer in Massachusetts
Ella A. Maryott

Men and Animals

N that interesting book “Some Animals I

Have Known,” Ernest Thompson Seton
writes:—

“Such a collection of histories naturally
suggests a common thought—a moral it
would have been called in the last century.
NO doubt each different mind will ﬁnd a
moral to its taste, but I hope some will
herein ﬁnd emphasized a moral as Old as
the Scripture—we and the beasts are kin.
Man has nothing that the animals have not
at least a vestige of, the animals have
nothing that man does not in some degree
share. Since then, the animals are creatures
with wants and feelings differing in degree
only from our own, they surely have their
rights. This fact, now beginning to be
recognized by the Caucasian world, was ﬁrst
proclaimed by Moses and was emphasized
by the Buddist over 2,000 years ago.”

Point thy tongue on the anvil of truth.
PINDAR

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Fez Reports

HE following will greatly interest the

friends of the work at Fez because of
its testimony to the inﬂuence exerted by the
Fondouk upon public opinion in that city.
We summarize:

Permanent Municipal Order, No. 146
August, 1933, for the Protection
of Domestic Animals

1. It is forbidden to illtreat domestic ani-
mals living in immediate contact with the
home or aiding in its labors.

2. By bad and abusive treatment is meant
all acts of brutality or violence or other
acts causing unnecessary suffering.

3. The overloading Of saddle or pack
animals making them bend under their load
shall be deemed ill-treatment.

4. The use of all needles or sharp-pointed
prods which might wound animals being led
or driven is rigorously prohibited, also the
use of any form of harness or other device
upon an animal that might wound it either
at work or when at rest.

5. Authorized agents shall have all power
to send seriously injured or wounded ani-
mals to the American Fondouk where they
will be given free treatment until healed.

6. The Chief of the Municipal Depart-
ment is charged with the enforcement of
this order.

July
July, 1933 —— 31 Days

Daily average large animals 34.4

Forage for same *$108.17

Forage for dogs 4.98

Put to sleep 4.29

Transportation 3.77

Wages, grooms, etc. 94.21

Inspector’s wages 26.57

Superintendent’s salary 142.86

Assistant’s salary 71.43

Veterinary’s salary 22.86

Motor allowance 14.29

Sundries 7.85
$501.28

Entries: 13 horses, 15 mules, 12 donkeys.

Exits: 10 horses, 15 mules, 29 donkeys.

SUPT.’S NOTES: *This item seems high for 34.4
daily, but bought enough till September 15, 1933.

Report on the 70 Native Fondouks: Visits made
during the month, 594; animals seen, 6,069; animals
treated, 1,825; animals taken to the American Fon-
douk, 3

From July 5 to July 12 no Native Fondouk inspec-
tions were made because of the Arab feast (Moulaud).

August
August, 1933—31 days

Daily average large animals 34.4

Daily average dogs 9.3

Forage for same 55 7.99

Put to sleep 12 4.39

Transportation 4.28

Wages, grooms, etc. 77.65

Inspector’s wages 23.84

Superintendent’s Salary 131.86

Assistant’s Salary 68.67

Veterinary’s Salary 21.97

Motor allowance 13.81

Sundries 21.27
$375.73

Entries: 13 horses, 12 mules, 34 donkeys.

Exits: 6 horses, 7 mules, 20 donkeys.

SUPT.’S NOTES: NO forage expense for large
animals as we are using stock purchased last month.
It seems to be impossible to keep expenses within
$400, as we certainly shall have more animals next
month and October also.

Assistant’s and Inspector’s report on the 70 Native
Fondouks: Visits made during the month, 810; ani-
mals seen, 9,729; animals treated 2,589; animals sent
1n,

The wages of the grooms, the inspector, and
francs 100 month voluntarily of Mr. Brown’s, show
reductions agreed on, to date from August 1.

A man is made or marred by the use he
makes of his leisure time.
JEREMY TAYLOR

_ f, h....__—_.._ a

N 07). 1933

Teaching Kindness
L. E. EUBANKS

AVE you ever known a person of ﬁne

character in whom kindness was not a
prominent quality? I never have. Among
young children, a disposition to cruelty is
a most alarming sign, and the wise parent
or teacher seeks to curb that tendency at
any cost.

Investigation has revealed that most crim-
inals were lacking in the quality of mercy
when they were children—below the aver-
age in consideration for other people and
for dumb animals. Enough has been learned
along this line to show that education in
kindness is fully as important as the scho-
lastic course, so far as character is con-
cerned.

We cannot begin too early with the
youngsters, and pets in the home will be of
great usefulness. I shall never forget the
surprise of a certain father when he learned
that his son had killed a neighbor’s cat just
because the animal would not do some trick
that the boy had tried to teach it.

“Why, he never seemed cruel, in his re-
lations with his mother and me!” exclaimed
the father. Doubtless many parents have
been similarly surprised; because a child
may be too clever or too fearful to reveal
his worst side to those who might punish
him.

The very best way to determine his inner
feelings, with reference to kindness, is to
watch him with some pet. Of course you
will have told him how to treat the animal—
no child should be entrusted with a pet
without having been so instructed. But
watch him when he thinks himself alone
with the pet; ﬁnd out what his inner
promptings seem to be.

A pet occupies a unique position in the
household, enabling you, as parent, to teach
many important things. The best way to
implant the attitude you desire in the child
is to show the analogy between your rela-
tions with him and his with his dog. For
instance, he knows that you are strong
enough and have the authority to make life
decidedly unpleasant for him; and he knows,
or must have it explained to him, that it
is kindness and love which restrain you.

Similarly, he can abuse or neglect his
pet; he has certain powers over the dog—
how is he going to use them? Your aim, at
ﬁrst until the child is able to grasp truly
ethical thoughts, should be to make him
feel some responsibility.

I doubt there being any better way to
inculcate patience and self-control in a
child than to give him the care of a pet.
Appreciation that a live creature is depend-
ent upon him has given many a young per-
son the ﬁrst ﬁne, constructive feeling of
fairness, sportsmanship—“bigness,” in its
best sense.

Alarm Clocks for Birds

Here is one way of getting rid of tres-
passers without hurting them. At Alameda,
California, some herons formed the habit
of roosting in a public park and helping
themselves to the park’s goldﬁsh. They
were having a nice easy living until four
alarm clocks were hung in the tree where
they roosted. They were set to go Off at
different times. One week of wakeful nights
was enough, and shows us that there is
usually a way. ETTA KENT

 




 

Aug. 1933

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Slaughter of the Fur-Seals

ture and slaughter of fur-seals in

Alaskan waters have called forth the
protests and denunciations of humane so-
cieties. They have been frequently cited as
a form of cruelty, torture and wastefulness
which was nothing short of diabolical, and
unworthy of our modern civilization. That
such barbarous practices have prevailed,
especially during the early years when
free-for-all raids were made upon the great
fur-seal herds, there is evidence. To make
use of this, however, in a present-day
arraignment of seal slaughter is misleading
and inexpedient in the face of actual con-
ditions.

Early in the present year an article
appeared in an English publication which
sets forth in vivid terms the “butchery”
annually taking place in the Pribilof Is-
lands. The writer relies for proof “not by
one’s own statement, but by the testimony
of those who have themselves had a part
in it and who cannot, therefore, be accused
of partiality.” He quotes from one Steller,
“who is not a rough native but a well
educated and careful observer,” as follows:

“These animals (seals) cling tenaciously
to life. More than 200 blows on the head
with a stick are needed to kill them. And
even when several men are at it one has
to stop several times to rest. When all its
teeth are broken, its skull in pieces, its
brain almost entirely destroyed, the animal
continues to defend itself.

“I know of one whose skull I had split
in two, whose eyes I had put out, and
which still remained alive for more than a
fortnight motionless as 'a statue.

“This method of taking out the eyes is,
moreover, highly to be recommended, accord—
ing to those who know. It prevents the
animal escaping. He stays where he is, not
knowing where to go, and is supported on
all sides by the dense crowd of his fellows.
One can understand that this must consider—
ably facilitate matters.”

Lack of space precludes further quotation
from the report. Steller is the sole author—
ity mentioned in this harrowing account of
much greater length.

Who was this “careful observer?” From
the Bureau of Biological Survey, U. S. De-
partment of Agriculture, we learn that
Georg W. Steller was a German natural-
ist on a Russian exploring expedition who
made his observations, above mentioned, in
the winter of 1741-42, nearly 200 years
ago, on the Commander Islands near
Kamchatka. The vessel, commanded by
Vitus Bering, was cast ashore. Thirty-one
of the crew died of scurvy. Forty-six sur-
vived the disease and subsisted mainly upon
seal ﬂesh. Stones and clubs were the only
weapons at their command; but this was
not a sealing expedition at all. Steller
wrote an account of it which was published
six years after his death in 1751 by the
Imperial Academy of Sciences at St.
Petersburg. It is but a tale of woe in which
men in desperate straits were forced to
extreme measures. It deserves no considera-
tion in the history of wanton or cruel seal
destruction.

The seal herd of the Pribilof Islands for
the past twenty years has been under the
surveillance and regulation of the U. S.

FOR many years the methods of cap-

Department of Commerce. Concerning the
present methods of killing a limited number
annually, we are indebted to Mr. Edward
A. Preble of the Bureau of Biological Sur-
vey, who states:

“It is believed that the present method of
killing is effective, and as humane as pos-
sible and that no change is necessary or
desirable. The seal selected to be killed is
stunned by a blow on the head by a heavy
club, and while unconscious is stabbed in
the heart and bled. The method is thus at
least as humane as that followed in slaugh-
tering domestic animals for food.

“It might be added that the method is
the one that has been found most practica-
ble. Since the animals at the time of kill-
ing are in a crowded mass, shooting would
result in the wounding of many not in-
tended for slaughter, besides mutilating
many of the skins. It has been tried and
found impracticable except in case of an
occasional old animal that is desired for a
specimen. For commercial purposes only the
immature males, scarcely half grown, are
killed.

“The introduction of motor trucks and
the making of roads has made it possible to
do the killing at points nearer the natural
haunts of the animals, and thus to reduce
the distance that the animals selected must
be driven to the actual killing grounds.”

From this it appears that while conditions
are probably still far from ideal, wanton
and indiscriminate killing has been stopped
and that such killing as is done is now
tempered with mercy, and that, suffer as
many of the seal may, greatly exaggerated
stories have been circulated by people who
have not known all the facts.

 

IN THE EDITOR’S LIBRARY

THE PUPPY BOOK, Ruth and Loring

Dodd.

In these simple rhymes “Wendy” Dodd, a
little cocker spaniel puppy, just pours out
his heart on everything relating to the ﬁrst
year of a dog’s life. The verses, usually
comprising from one to four stanzas of four
short lines each, have the merit of brevity,
and on each alternate page is a line and
color drawing of “Wendy,” charmingly done
by Dr. Dodd, who is a professor in Clark
University, Worcester, Mass. “In my whole
35 years of experience,” writes Manager
Gregory of the publishing ﬁrm, “we have
not published any other book that seemed
to arouse such spontaneous enthusiasm
among dog lovers as has this little book.” It
has won the unstinted praise of such writers
as Albert Payson Terhune and Professor
William Lyon Phelps. It is for anyone who
has ever brought up a puppy or loved a dog.
It is attractively bound in decorated boards
with cloth back.

66 pp. $1. Lothrop, Lee & Shepard Co.,
Boston.

 

From a Recent Book on Zola by

Henri Ba rbusse

He, Zola, formed his opinion on the worth
of people according to the way in which
they treated animals. He almost always
had dogs around him.

If the love of beasts, says Barbusse,
sometimes tends to develop early in certain
restricted mentalities, if it exists sometimes

Page 123

in strange union with ferociously narrow
conceptions, it is none the less an important
love born of the respect and pity for life,
in other words, of a profound sense of life.

These simple transparent creatures that
move around us, whose destiny is complete-1y
in our hands, give us a fragmentary,
sketchy but stark view of the great essen—
tial profundity of life: the faculty of suffer-
ing and that of thinking. This profound life
is independent of the luxuries of knowledge
and intelligence which the human branch of
the animal world has added to it, and
wherever it is found, it is venerable as all
nature is. There is in the animal all that
there is in man, in a smaller, more humble,
more pure, more innocent,—more visible
guise. Among all our sentiments, there is
none more human than the love of beasts.

In Memory of “Buddy”

Polka-Dot Whiskery, a beautiful Aire-
dale, registered, was known to his many
friends as “Buddy” and he justiﬁed the
name.

Buddy’s ancestry included eight champion
Airedales. He was purchased in 1927, at
the age of nine months, from Mr. George
Thorwith, of Ramsey, N. J., (a noted New
Jersey breeder) by Mr. R. M. Handy, sup-
erintendent of the Massachusetts Masonic
Home at Charlton, Massachusetts.

 

“BUDDY”

Buddy came into daily contact with a
large number of residents, employees, and
visitors of the Home. Consequently he did
not grow up to be a one-man dog, but was
friendly with everybody. He was a special
favorite of children, and young visitors
occasionally sent post cards to him. He be-
came one of the most widely known dogs in
the State.

In the late afternoon of December 29th,
Buddy was crossing the street in Charlton
Center, when he was struck by an auto-
mobile and instantly killed.

The memory of the orderly, loyal, friendly
life of this dog will endure in the hearts of
those who knew him and loved him.

The above is from the Kennel Review, it
also appeared in Country Life.

Buddy is buried at Hillside Acre, the
Small Animal Cemetery of the Mass. S. P.
C. A.’s Farm at Methuen where between ﬁve
and six hundred other small animals have
been taken by those who wished the bodies
so cared for.

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

I
l
T

 

 

 

 

APRIL 1933

PRICE 10 CENTS

 

 

/l

//

 

 

 

 

 

 

Armstrong Roberts

Photo by H.
FINE CATTLE ADD A CHARM TO THE MEADOWS

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THE MASSACHUSETTS SOCIETY FOR THE

PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS
AND THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

A ,. ‘———.————,— _ _.n.— M.* 7

umb -

U, S.Trade Mark, Registered

ANGEL'L m 1868.AND FOR FORTy.
.T-

The Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

The American Humane Education Society

The American Band of Mercy

I would not enter on my list of friends,
Though graced with polished manners and ﬁne sense,
Yet wanting sensibility, the man
Who needlessly sets foot upon a worm.
—COWPER

 

    
 

GLORY 'ro
GOD,
PEACE on EARTH,
Kmousss, JUSTICE
AND MERCY 1'0“
EVERY LIVING
CREATURE.

  
  
   
     
 

.Published monthly by the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood, Massachusetts

Entered as second-class matter, June 29, 1917, at the Post Ofﬁce at Norwood, Mass,

Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of Oct

under the Act of March 3, 1879
ober 3, 1917, authorized, July 13, 1919

Boston Oﬁic‘e, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

Vol. 66

We congratulate the Royal S. P. C. A.
of Sydney, Australia, upon its sixtieth anni-
versary. Sixty years of ﬁne service.

The Abandoned Cat—The Last of August
and early September is the fateful time for,
Heaven only knows how many, unfortunate
cats left abandoned and homeless by heart-
less people leaving their summer resorts.
Our Society will gladly send for any and all
small animals whose owners will drop us a
post card.

The Bureau of Agricultural Economics
reports a rather surprising shortage of
horses and mules throughout the farming
sections of the country. Farmers, unable to
keep up the more expensive tractors and
trucks, are ﬁnding it diﬂ‘icult to replace
them with mules and horses. The breeding
of these animals in larger numbers has
begun.

Good news comes from Palestine. There
is a Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals covering Jaffa and Tel Aviv.
At its recent animal parade four or ﬁve
hundred people were present. The Society
has a hospital with dog kennels. It has
a veterinary surgeon, a chief inspector,
British, an Arab inspector, one Jewish in-
spector and two stable boys.

A Roosevelt and the Spanish
Bull-fight

With deep regret, humane people of
many nations have read of the presence of
a son of President Roosevelt at a Spanish
bull-ﬁght and his reported pleasure at the
spectacle, and his gratiﬁcation when he rose
to acknowledge the honor—Heaven save the
mark—of having a bull dedicated to him.
The world of thoughtful men and women
who have for generations looked with horror
upon that relic of barbarism, the Spanish
bull-ﬁght, will ﬁnd it hard to believe that
the parents of this young man have read of
his conduct in Spain with anything but pain
and humiliation.

October, 1933 '

If Only

F only all the people in the United States

who are the friends of horses and dogs
and cats and birds, who seek their welfare,
could give one small fraction of their in-
terest in animals to those millions of ani-
mals, victims of the slaughter-house, an
amount of suffering beyond all concept-ion
would be saved those hosts of cattle, sheep
and swine that daily, year in and year out,
tread their via dolorosa to stagger beneath
the blow, often many times repeated, of the
pole-axe, and gasp out their life from their
bleeding throats.

A horse beaten on the street, a dog crying
with pain from a speeding automobile that
has struck him, a cat starved and homeless
hurrying into some lonely alley, a bird
fallen from its nest'and faintly calling for
help—these quicken our sympathy and sum-
mon us to their aid. But on and on and on
through all the weary days plods the un—
ending procession of our food animals to a
death as unnecessarily cruel and painful as
our surgical operations would be today
should our surgeons refuse their patients
the blessed unconsciousness that comes from
a modern anaesthetic. Humane killing of
our food animals! Why do we not have it?
It costs too much. When humane people
who eat meat refuse to eat meat which has
cost a living creature what death in the
modern slaughter—house has cost it, the day
of humane slaughter will dawn.

On a tablet set into the facade of one of
the principal buildings of the German abat-
toir in Dresden are the following words:
“Thine is a task of blood; discharge that

task

With mercy: let thy victim know

No pain, but let the sudden blow
Bring death, such death as thou thyself

wonld’st ask.”

Imagine that written on the front of any
American slaughter-house!

A Century of Progress at Chicago! In
science, in industry, in many another ﬁeld
of human activity? Yes. In the way we
slaughter our food animals? No. Alas, in
this respect, no century of progress.

No. 10

Differing from a Great
Humanitarian

ENRY S. SALT, an English humani-

tarian, one of the world’s best known
among all interested in animal welfare both
as writer and thinker, in an article entitled
“Reason or Revelation,” questions the as-
sertion of those who would “ascribe all
humane efforts to some heaven-sent inspira-
tion; as when a zoophilist writer urges that
kindness to animals is a positive duty to
Christians, ‘precisely for the sake of their
faith’.” “What,” he asks, “has that faith
done for the beneﬁt of non-humans?” and
replies, “It were hard to discover.” “For,
frankly,” he continues, “what reprobation
of cruel practices such as hunting, or of
the general neglect and ill-usage of animals,
do Christians ﬁnd in their Bibles? None at
all.”

One is loath to differ with one so hon-
ored as Mr. Salt is by the writer of these
words. Still, something may be said, we
think, on the other side. No one, probably,
would “ascribe all humane effort to some
heaven—sent inspiration,” that is, to some
supernatural revelation enjoining justice
and compassion to all sub-human creatures;
too many of life’s ﬁner impulses, we be-
lieve, come with the most of us from the
unseen out of which we are born for that
to be true. Perhaps we do not come “trail-
ing clouds of glory with us from God who
is our home,” but something comes with us
beside the spirit of cruelty, strife and in-
humanity. And as to the statement that in
our Bibles there is “no reprobation of cruel
practices such as hunting and ill-usage of
animals,” we feel conﬁdent that is hardly
true. To be sure, we know of no direct,
explicit injunction in the Bible not to hunt,
neither do we ﬁnd any positive command
not to beat a horse or a mule or other ani-
mal. But is there nothing anywhere from
Genesis to Revelation that reveals a spirit
clearly and unmistakably on the side of
justice and compassion toward all sentient
life—animals as well as men?

Let us look at certain passages and
see if there is no warrant “for saying
that the reader of the Bible does ﬁnd that

 

 

 

 

 




 

IVov.1933

 

Atonement
EIRENE F. CARTER

One thing I crave: That in some future day

I may have power, at last, to end the pain

Of all dumb creatures. Suﬂering in vain,

To quench the lust of men who kneel and
pray

To Him who never bade them hunt and slay

The trembling stag, whose death can bring
no gain.

I’d lift the terror from the cringing brain

Of stumbling horses beaten on their way.

And feathered things, whose gentle spirits

. fret,

I’d hold no longer prisoned from the skies.

Dull agony that lurks in piteous eyes

0f faithful dogs, my heart could not forget.

My soul cries out! Oh, may I pay the debt!
The vast atonement due from human priests
To all the brotherhood of tortured beasts!

Humane Calendar for 1934

HE American Humane Education So-
ciety’s Calendar for 1934 is NOW
ready.

The picture chosen is “Happy Land of
Childhood,” showing a pleasing garden scene
with a child and two dogs at a bird bath.
The color effects are up to the highest Os-
borne standard. If preferred, Calendars
will be supplied with a picture in black and
white of a child and cat with a spinning
wheel. BE SURE to state which picture is
desired. Otherwise the colored one described
above will be sent.

The leaves of the pad, one for each month,
contain the usual valuable humane hints on
the care of animals and are especially adapt-
ed to use in Schools.

Price remains the same as in former
years: 20 cents per single copy, two for 35
cents; $1.80 per dozen, post-paid to any
address.

Special printing with Society’s name and
list of ofﬁcers, for immediate orders only.
100 @ $19; 200 @ $34; 300 @ $50; 500 @
$81; transportation extra.

The calendars will be mailed promptly
upon receipt of order which should be sent
early to avoid disappointment.

AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY,
180 Longwood Ave., Boston, Mass.

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Page 1’71

The Great Cruelty—~Then and Now

Report of Dr. Francis H. Rowley, Chairman of the National Committee
on Humane Slaughtering, at Convention of American Humane
Association, Hartford, Conn., October 11, 1933

HEN I wrote the Secretary, Mr.

Walker, that the title of what I

intended to say tonight would be
“THEN AND NOW,” the “THEN” of
which I was thinking was that memorable
day of a hundred and eleven years ago
when Richard Martin made himself immor-
tal by securing the legislation out of which
grew in London, England, the great Royal
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals. The “NOW” was to be today.
But Mr. Walker also asked me to make a
report, as Chairman of the National Com—
mittee, on Humane Methods in the Slaugh-
tering of our Food Animals. Not to run
the risk of wearying you by two addresses
I am conﬁning myself to one, and the
“THEN” that I have at the moment in
mind is that day far back in 1877, 56 years
ago when this Association held its ﬁrst
meeting in Cleveland. The chief evil that
occupied the attention of that gathering was
the cruelty associated with the transporta-
tion of livestock. The cruelties involved in
slaughtering these animals were only inci-
dentally considered. It was not till the
meeting in New Orleans in 1908 that a
Committee appointed the previous year
brought the subject before the Association
for serious discussion. The “NOW” is this
day of our Lord October 11th, 1933, a half
a century and more ago, since that ﬁrst
meeting of this Association.

The subject is not a pleasant one. Back
of it one sees the blood—red ﬂoors of a thou-
sand shambles, and hears the cries of the
frightened victims daily sacriﬁced for hu-
man food. On and on, and ever on, through
nights and days and wee-ks and months and
years, travel that never—resting procession
of something like a hundred million four-
footed creatures wending their weary way
from ranch and farm to shipping pens,
thence to the great abattoirs and the innu-
merable private butcheries to meet death,
with rare exceptions, in a needlessly cruel
and inhuman way.

A Century of Progress? Yes, in many a
ﬁeld of human activity, but who would ven-
ture to speak of a century of progress in
the way our food animals are killed? With
a rapidly growing population demanding
ﬂesh to eat the whole process of slaughter
has been speeded up as a gigantic business.
Not how humanely can we kill, rather how
quickly and how cheaply can we transfer
living ﬂesh and blood into food. That has
been the problem. The large beef animals
for the most part are jammed with prods
into a single pen to be stunned with the blow
of a poleaxe, the position of their heads
being such that it is often almost impos—
sible to down them with a single blow. Two,
three blows, and sometimes more I have
seen struck upon one dodging victim’s head
before the suffering beast fell unconscious.

Practically all our swine, our sheep and
many of our calves hanging by a hind leg
meet death through the knife that is plunged
into their throats, consciousness persisting
often for at least some seconds, just how
many no one knows. A Century of Pro-
gress? A century of barbarism by a nation

claiming to be civilized, and this today when
the world thinks of civilization as measur-
ed by the attitude of men and women
toward all injustice and the suﬁering either
of man or beast. Where shall we look for
the real signs of our greatness as a nation?
Shall it be within the wide enclosures of
that enormous exhibition in Chicago, or
shall it be within those blood-stained sham-
bles that, large and small, from the Atlantic
to the Paciﬁc, cry aloud to Heaven for
reform.

Brieﬂy let me tell the story from the
“THEN” of 1877, when the American Hu-
mane Association ﬁrst began its work, to
the “NOW” of this present hour. No Na-
tional Committee relative to this subject
was formed till 1907 and then made its re—
port from time to time. Other commit-
tees were appointed, and year in and
year out there was discussion and still dis-
cussion, always discussion, little more, but
nothing came of it. One must not forget,
however, that Henry Bergh, the nephew of
the founder of the American S. P. C. A.
and his successor as President of that So-
ciety, with the support and backing of the
American S. P. C. A., was deeply inter-
ested in this subject and spent time and
money seeking a device to kill food animals
instantly and painlessly. But the Associa—
tion itself accomplished nothing, and Mr.
Bergh’s efforts were fruitless. At last a
special meeting of some of the ofﬁcials of
the stronger humane organizations was
called at Buﬂalo in 1922. At that meeting
a National Committee was appointed. The
Chairman of that Committee, after Visiting
practically all the leading abattoirs of Eu-
rope and studying their methods, as a rule
much more humane than those in this coun—
try, sent broadcast over the land the story
of the method by which our food animals
here were being slaughtered. Hundreds of
newspapers were paid to call attention to
that story which would be sent free upon
application. Its title was “The Great
Cruelty.” Not long after came word from
the great Institute of American Meat
Packers, representing more than 200 of the
larger slaughter-houses of America, that
the agitation was hurting their business
and that they would be glad to co-operate
with the Committee. In 1923 a meeting was
held in the directors’ room of the American
S. P. C. A. in New York City, Two repre-
sentatives of the Institute were present.
They expressed the willingness of the In-
stitute to co-operate. There was general
agreement that a device was needed for the
destruction of our food animals, mechanical
in its nature, economic, safe and sure and
that would produce unconsciousness before
the use of the knife. Generously the New
York Society in 1922 had offered a prize of
$10,000 for such a device. During the suc-
ceeding year several hundred devices or
designs of devices were submitted. With
great anticipation of success the Committee
visited one of the large abattoirs in Chicago
to see the most promising of the devices
operate. Alas, none of them met the re—
quirements. One of them, however, came so

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 121;

Me or You?

By Mrs. L. F. MESSMAN, Enid, Oklahoma

Awarded honorable mention in prize contest of

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Somebody pulled

burrs from a pony’s mane;
Somebody put

the frog-teasing boys to shame;
Somebody turned

loose a butterﬂy;
Somebody rescued

a chick left to die;
Somebody petted

a motherless calf;
Somebody was able

to brave a laugh;
Somebody got rid

of the guinea-pig’s ﬂeas;
Somebody quieted

the frightened bees—
Was that somebody me?

Somebody set

a bird’s broken wing;
Somebody left

the squirrels to swing;
Somebody fed

an aged old mule;
Somebody sheltered

a kitten—a. jewel;
Somebody untied

a can from Rover’s tail;
Somebody heard

an injured lamb’s wail;
Somebody gave

in no spirit of lend;
Somebody played

the Dumb Animal’s friend—
Was that somebody you?

Humane Workers’ Fund

So far gifts now amounting to $6,067
have been received for the American Hu-
mane Education Society’s trust fund for
the beneﬁt of ﬁeld missionaries and others
who have spent their lives in the service
of promoting humane education.

Your contribution to this fund will be
most welcome. Please make checks payable
to Treasurer, American Humane Education
Society, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, and
specify that the amount contributed is for
the Humane Education Trust Fund.

The Massachusetts S. P. C. A. also is
raising a special fund to provide, when
necessary, for employees who have been re-
tired or for any reason are incapacitated
for work. Contributions to this fund should
be sent to the Treasurer and marked plainly

for Massachusetts S. P. C. A. Retirement
Fund.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Aug. 1933

Writers Prefer Cats

C. M. LITTELJOHN

HERE is a wealth of interesting evi—

dence, past and present, that a large

number of members of the literary
craft in those halcyon belles lettres days,
as well as in the plainer writing trade of
the present, had a particular predilection
for the ﬁreside companion whose warming
purr may have kept aglow the spark‘of
genius.

English scholars, French writers and
American authors have in innumerable in-
stances bee-n possessors of quiet and cuddle-
some cats that have shared their thoughts
by the hearth and doubtless ﬁtted into, if
not stimulated, their writing moods.

There was, for instance, in more ancient
days, the gray pussy of the essayist Mon-
taigne, the friendly feline of the author of
“Ivanhoe,” and an amazing group of French
writers of various periods who possessed a
laudable array of such pets.

The dreamy, philosophic and romantic
stylist, Theophile Gautier, that master of
the French contc, M. Prosper Merimée,
the distinguished author of “Les Miser-
ables,” Victor Hugo, with his “Chanoine,”
all showed a deep-rooted fondness for the
chat. “Micetto,” pet of Chateaubriand, and
the two mademoiselle pussies of the popular
Pierre Loti, shared the silence of their mas-
ter’s writing solitude and dreamed away the
hours with those who put their dreams on
paper.

Among French writers, Charles Baude-
laire, author of numerous essays in which
cats play a part, and creator of distinctive
“prose poetry,” deserves especial mention
as a famous admirer of cats. He doubtless
felt to a warm degree the particular spirit-
ual experience emanating from friendship
with eats, a friendship possibly existing
only when deserved, as only a few may
fully know and understand the real affec—
tion of the loudly purring pet.

In his numerous writings of cats, one of
his poems is a celebrated classic of French
literature. His prose poem, entitled “The
Clock,” however, refers to the manner in
which the Chinese tell time by the profound
eyes of the cat. There he sets forth, in

 

ASLEEP IN THEIR MASTER’S STUDY

tribute to his aptly named “Feline,” that if
he leaned over and plumbed the depths of
her adorable eyes, he could see distinctly
ever the same that vast solemn Hour, im—
mense as Space, without divisions of min-
utes or seconds, an hour, ﬁxed, immobile,
unmarked on clocks, light as a sigh, rapid
as a quick glance—all done in the most
beautiful of poetic French prose.

What photos have we seen of American
writers with their little pussy cats! Quite a
bit of the pensive pose and utmost tran-
quility is due to the presence of the com-
panionate cat, which forms the real “human
interest” of the picture.

Richard Wightman, noted American poet,
is photographed, for instance, for a frontis-
piece to his volume of verse with his pet cat
at his feet. Oliver Herford, humorist, is
shown informally in a recent issue of the
Saturday Evening Post, seated at his desk
drawing sketches of his pet, his wide—eyed
little tabby held closely by his side. Mark
Twain once possessed no less than eleven
kittens—a regular cat farm that proved the
fondness of the greatest of American hu-
morists for pussies.

Many other successful writers of various
countries probably owe their success, or at
least their personal and home contentment,
to the inﬂuence of cats. Purring may aid
cogitation by the ﬁreside, better stimulating
the thought processes or ratiocination. This
audible appreciation may be an inspiration
to the writer. It is quite possible to induce
deeper reﬂection. A cat seems to be so
thoughtful in front of the ﬁre. Seated to-
gether, the cat and ’the man before a danc-
ing blaze, the cat appears to have greater
power of concentration, the more pensive,
undivided, poised and satisﬁed expression.

Well nigh perfect companionship is of-
fered the writer by the cat, who doubtless
believes in that maxim that “a friend is
one who knows our faults and still loves
us.” His is no fair-weather friendship that
forsakes the writer when his mail brings
rejection slips, and manuscripts over which
he has labored are spurned by the editors.
As ever, his fur-covered mascot maintains
a discreet and digniﬁed silence. By exer-
cise of the greatest forbearance he conceals
what he thinks, complacently, patiently,
passively.

The cat in thoughtful contemplation re-
sembles the soul of wisdom itself, with far
more knowing mien than the wise old owl
of the oak who, the legend runs, “the more
he heard the less he spoke.” His is an
understanding, faithful heart, palpitating
as it purrs with grateful abandon, sympa-
thetic to life’s problems as they confront
the author-friend, encouraging or comfort—
ing him without intruding into his affairs.
Anxious to help in some measure with his
task, he knows they also serve who only
purr and wait, till Fame unlocks her rusty
gate.

An Associated Press dispatch from Stock-
holm says that the Lapps, nomads of north-
ernmost Sweden, have been denied the
right to kill bears without special permit,
the Riksdag deciding the animals were
threatened with extinction because of the
hunters’ prowess with spears and clubs.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 148

which really and positively leads him to be-
lieve that the God of whom it speaks does
care for animals and so those who believe
in him must also care for them and guard
them against ill-usage.

A righteous man regardeth the life of his
beast; but the tender mercies of the wicked
are cruel. Proverbs 12:10

He causeth the grass to grow for the
cattle, and herb for the service of man.

Psalm 104:14

These (the reference is to animals) wait
all upon thee: that thou mayest give them
their meat in due season. Psalm 104127

Thou shalt not see thy brother’s ass or his
ox fall down by the way, and hide thyself
from them. Deuteronomy 22:4

Isn’t that an injunction not to neglect an
animal?

If thou see the ass of him that hateth thee,
lying under his burden, and wouldst forbear
to help him; thou shalt surely help with him.

Exodus 23:5

Six days thou shalt do thy work, and on
the seventh day thou shalt rest: that thine
ox and thine ass may rest. Exodus 23:12

Thou shalt not muzzle the ox that treadeth
out the corn. Deuteronomy 25:4

He giveth to the beast his food, and to the
young ravens which cry. Psalm 147 :9

With these consider also the words of
Matthew 6:26:

Behold the fowls of the air; for they sow
not, neither do they reap, nor gather into
barns; yet your heavenly Father feede-th
them.

What though he feedeth them through
their own activities in seeking food, is it not
implied that he has provided food for them?
There are other passages we might quote of
similar character.

What is the meaning of that injunction
in Exodus 23:19, “Thou shalt not seethe a
kid in his mother’s milk?” One of the ablest
rabbis in the country, whose interpretation
of the words we have sought, replies, “The
command was given because it would be an
inhumane thing to do, repulsive to all
thoughtful people.” Likewise consider the
passage in Deuteronomy 22:6, where one is
forbidden, should the nest of a bird be
found in the way, to take a bird sitting
either upon her young or upon her eggs
though the young or the eggs may be taken.
Again our friend, the rabbi, said, “Back of
this injunction is the idea of humaneness.
If the nest is in the way and must be
removed, spare at least the mother.”

From Mr. Salt we must again differ. He
says that “the attempt made by some writ-
ers to see great tenderness in such a text
as that which speaks of not a sparrow fall-
ing on the ground ‘without your Father,’
(Matthew 10:29) are unjustiﬁed because,
from the study of the content, the passage
clearly has reference to the omniscience, not
the humaneness, of the Deity.” “Frankly
studied,” he says, “with its conclusion, ‘Ye
are of more value than many sparrows,’ it is
proved to carry a meaning the reverse of
that which some zoophilists read into it.”
What is the context? The Lord is sending
out his disciples to preach the good tidings
0f the kingdom. They are to take neither
gold nor silver, nor scrip for their journey.
He warns them against those who will perse-
cute them, imprison them. He tells them they
shall be turned from many a door denied
food and shelter. But they are to fear no
Ills that may befall the body alone, only
hlm that might destroy both soul and body,

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

Internatlonal News Photo

KNOWN AS “THE CHAMPION TIGHT-
ROPE WALKER OF THE CIRCUS” THIS
ANIMAL HAS BEEN TRAINED TO
PERFORM AN UNNATURAL AND OB-
JECTIONABLE ACT

 

and then says that not a sparrow falls
without their Father. What can the mean-
ing be except that if God cares enough about
a sparrow to mark its fall much more will
he care for them, of more value, of course,
than many sparrows. The same words are
found in the passage in Matthew 6:26
when their Heavenly Father is said to
care enough about the birds to feed them.
“Are ye not much better than they?” So
far as we know, Mr. Salt’s understanding
of the meaning of this passage stands alone.
Against it is the interpretation put upon it
by every student of the New Testament
with whom we are familiar.

Mr. Salt can certainly claim the Apostle
Paul as on his side so far as stating that
the God of the Bible does not care, at least,
for oxen. For the apostle, quoting the pas-
sage which forbids muzzling the ox that
treadeth out the corn, says, “Doth God care
for oxen?” Evidently he would say no, be-
cause he goes on to say that command was
written altogether “for our sakes” since he
that ploweth should plow in hope; that is,
the laborer is worthy of his hire. Well,
Paul, like the most of the men of his day,
apparently was little interested in animal
welfare. We are conﬁdent he was wrong.
We are sure from the passage itself and
from many another biblical saying that the
God of the Bible does care for oxen. And
who that reads the gospels can think of a
sincere follower of the Galilean facing
cruelty and suffering in any other spirit
than that of sympathy and helpfulness?
Oh, yes, we know the age-old and tragic
story of the cruelties inﬂicted on man and
beast by ten times ten thousand and thou-
sands of thousands professing discipleship
with the man of Nazareth. We know, too,
of many noble, humane, Christ-like men and
women who have never named His name.

Mr. Salt, we are conﬁdent you will read
What we have written, in that same tolerant
humane spirit which has given you your
commanding place in the humane world.

Oct. 1933

Synthetic Illusion
G. D. FRONABARGER

ONTHS have passed since Denver M.

Wright, a St. Louis manufacturer,
staged his two synthetic Missouri lion hunts.
Even persons closely associated with these
so-called safari expeditions evidence only
a contemptuous smirk when the occasions
are recalled. But Wright, unintentionally,
accomplished one thing; he aroused state-
wide and official sympathy sufﬁcient to cause
the enactment of legislation banning for-
ever “big game” hunts of the “manufac-
tured” sort in Missouri.

The writer, a newspaper reporter, was
present on the ﬁrst “expedition.” He saw,
while Wright and his companions were
feasting on a chicken dinner, the lions fall
innocent victims to deadly sub-machine gun
ﬁre, let loose by the trembling hands of an
excited native.

The lions, a pair of little more than
half—grown females, died like rabbits. They
offered no more resistance than a cotton-
tail bunny and, I am reliably informed,
the lions on the second hunt died while
sleeping. I was not present on the second
hunt, because of my own choice and
Wright’s. The two “hunts” were an arti-
ﬁcial conception of sportsmanship, a sort
of synthetic illusion. The result was ex-
ecution—slaughter.

Wright’s lions were familiar with human
beings—trusted them. Three of us walked
onto them, lying side by side in a thicket
four hours after they were released on a
small Mississippi river island from which
there was no escape. They just stared at
us in wonderment. Then one started to
yawn. A hunter with the machine gun must
have mistaken that for an evil gesture. The
lions died in less time than. it takes to
say it.

Perhaps that was more humane than
what they otherwise would have had in
store. The weather was cold, and a drizzle
of rain made the day everything but com—
fortable. Not a climate for a beast of the
tropics. Too, there was an army of hunt—
ers, all to cover a small island. I dare say
the beasts would have been painfully in-
jured before meeting death. Any other es-
cape from their fate would have been by
drowning.

There’s one man in Missouri who owns
a little real humaneness. Thanks to Repre-
sentative E. M. Munger of Chaffee, Scott
County—He is the author of the bill which
in a recent session of the state legislature
deﬁnitely established that there will be no
more lion hunts in Missouri.

What Jack London Wrote

I have witnessed the deaths of old and
young, and even infants, from sheer starva-
tion. I have seen men and women beaten by
whips and clubs and ﬁsts, and I have seen
the rhinoceros-hide whips laid around the
naked torsos of black boys so heartily that
each stroke stripped away the skin in full
circle. And yet, and let me add ﬁnally,
never have I been so appalled and shocked
by the world’s cruelty as I have been appall-
ed and shocked in the midst of happy,
laughing, and applauding audiences when
trained-animal turns were being performed
on the stage.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 172

near it that it was decided to attempt its
perfection. Two years were consumed in
this endeavor. It was all in vain.

Then came word from Bavaria, Germany,
that a special electric current with a volt-
age of from 50 to 80, the current itself
interrupted 8 or 10 thousand times a min-
ute, would reduce any animal to uncon-
sciousness without suﬁering for a period
long enough for it to be bled out before
consciousness returned and so dying from
loss of blood.

Correspondence with large abattoirs
abroad on the Continent ﬁlled your Com-
mittee with hope. We believed that the day
we had been looking for was dawning. The
subject was then taken up with the great
packing houses. They were evidently in—
terested and one of them particularly be-
gan experimenting with this new device,
both upon cattle and upon swine. Nearly four
years have been spent in experimentation——
and the result? Very little, up to the mo-
ment; that encourages us to believe that we
are nearing our goal. No attempt, it also
should be said, has been made up to
the present to try this method out upon
the millions of sheep and calves annually
slaughtered, though abundant evidence can
be had that in certain parts of Europe
these smaller animals are being humanely
killed by this method, or by stunning.

As to the stunning of the beef cattle by
this believed-to-be humane electric stun-
ning method, the Institute of American
Meat Packers reported to me that they had
found blood splashes in the carcass which
interfered with the sale of the meat.
This has led them to abandon further ex-
perimentation while they say they are seek-
ing to ﬁnd the causes of it and so to elimi—
nate it. Upon learning this I wrote to the-
heads of the slaughtering departments of
Munich, Germany, where this new method
has been for years in use, and their reply is
that they ﬁrst had the same trouble but
have learned how to eliminate it. This, it
seems to me, the Institute of American
Meat Packers might also have done had they
devoted the time and expense necessary.

As to the killing of swine by this method,
they have not yet perfected any device that
seems at all practicable. The device or de—
vices used in the experiments that your
Committee has witnessed have been so im-
practical and have so slowed up the speed
of slaughtering that they, so far as I can
learn, have been abandoned. It is true that
in a letter from the head of the Institute
some weeks ago I was told that they were
considering some sort of a platform that
might pick up the swine and carry them
rapidly on toward a stunning device, but
from a report received within a week of
the slaughtering methods going on in the
abattoirs at Chicago I have learned that
nothing is being done in the way of ex-
perimenting with stunning by the electric
current and that the same old methods are
being followed that we have been at work
these many years to change. Then it was
hoped that not only the beef animals and
the swine would be humanely stunned by
this electric device but that the many mil-
lions of calves and sheep would also be
humanely killed by the same method. But
toward the humane destruction of these
animals not a step has been taken.

I hope you will forgive the personal ele—
ment in what I am about to say. Almost

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

from the ﬁrst day of my successorship to
Mr. Angell I have been impressed by the
gigantic burden of suffering constantly fall-
ing upon the food animals, particularly of
this country, from the time they are headed
toward the slaughter-house till death ends
their journey. That it has outnumbered
many, many fold all the other sufferings
that animals endure, and that it is the su-
preme problem before the humane socie-
ties of this country I am conﬁdent. For
the most of these twenty-three years and a
half I have hoped and dreamed to live- to
see the day when they might meet death
with the least possible suffering, for if we-
insist they shall be killed for our food we
owe them by every law human and divine
the most painless death that human ingenu-
ity can devise. And what shall I say now?
That this dream and this hope give little
promise of realization in my day.

Let me read a letter that I wrote last
month to the President of the Institute of
American Meat Packers: “The report that
I am to make at Hartford, October 11th, will
not be satisfactory to the delegates and I
am sure it will not be satisfactory to you. I
do not doubt that the Institute of American
Meat Packers has wanted to co-operate with
the humane organizations of the United
States in securing the humane slaughter
of our food animals; all of us who know
the facts realize how gigantic the problem
is in this country where animals are killed
so rapidly and in such almost incredible
numbers. We also accept without question
your statement that a good many thousands
of dollars have been spent in experiment—
ing with this so-called new electric manner
of stunning. At the same time, the Com-
mittee of which I- am Chairman cannot help
feeling that there has not been the thor-
ough and exhaustive attempt to solve the
problem that there should have been and
might have been on the part of the great
packing concerns of the United States.”

What, then, as Chairman of the National
Committee, have I to say to the delegates to
this Annual Meeting of the American Hu-
mane Association? Only this: so far as I
can see, nothing but an aroused and deter-
mined public opinion,—an opinion informed
as to the methods by which our food ani-
mals are being killed, an opinion indignant
and outraged because in a civilized country
humaner methods have not been devised by
those whose business it is to destroy these
animals—nothing but this will wipe this
reproach from our nation and bring the
day when the animals sacriﬁced by us for
human food shall be treated, in the sacri-
ﬁce, with that justice and compassion we
should claim for ourselves were we in their
place and they in ours. So far as I can see
it, then, it remains for every humane organ-
ization of this country by every means
within its power to keep every man and
woman and child it can reach informed as
to the cruelties now existing in the slaugh—
ter houses of this land, urging upon them
to purchase only such meat products, if it
be possible, of animals as have been hu-
manely slaughtered. Where such meat can-
not be obtained, then, if we are in earnest
in this matter, let us cut down our con-
sumption of the meat of animals inhumanely
destroyed. In all our public meetings, in our
private conversations, through the press,
through every channel open to us let us
create a public opinion that shall demand

Nov. 1933

such reform in the slaughtering methods by
which our food animals are destroyed as
shall justify our existence as humane or-
ganizations and entitle us to be called a
civilized people.

NATIONAL COMMITTEE ON
HUMANE SLAUGHTERING

FRANK B. RUTHERFORD

SYDNEY H. COLEMAN

WILLIAM E. BEVAN

FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, Chairman

 

 

 

A Famous Swiss Police Dog

MRS. E. R. ADAMSON

IGGER VON BLASENBERG of
Lausanne has become an important
factor in the police department of his native
city. This remarkable dog was trained a
few years ago by Mr. and Mrs. Eustice,
Americans, who went to Switzerland to

_establish the school of the “seeing eye,”

where German police dogs are taught to
become eyes for Swiss blind.

Wigger served in this capacity for some
time, but his intelligence and sagacity de-
veloped to such an extent that he was pro-
moted to a Scotland Yard career, in which
he has already made a name for himself.
He is known to have aided the police of
the Canton of Vaud in no less than forty
difﬁcult cases, thirty-two of which he suc-

» cessfully solved.

One day a farmer came to the police head-
quarters and told of a purse he had lost
while ploughing his ﬁelds. Wigger was
given the scent. After two hours of strenu-
ous search he dug the purse up from under
a six-inch furrow.

One of Wigger’s cleverest exploits was
the ﬁnding of a peasant woman who had
disappeared from her home in the Jura
Mountains. For days her family and friends
had searched in vain. With all odds against
him—a scent seventy hours old, and a heavy
fall of snow in the meantime, Wigger was
able to locate the woman, who had lost her
way and lay buried in the snow.

 




 

 

Published monthly by the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals,

Entered as second-class matter, June 29, 1917, at the Post ”Ofﬁce at Norwood, Mass,
Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of 0c

01. AN

u U. S,Trade Mark, RegiSfered \

The Massachusetts Society .
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

The American Humane Education Society

The American Band of Mercy

I would not enter on my list of friends,
Though graced with polished manners and ﬁne sense,
Yet wanting sensibility, the man
Who needlessly sets foot upon a worm.
—COWPER

GLORY TO
GOD,
Peace on EARTH,

AND MERCY TO"
EVERY mea
CREATURE.

 

46 Central Street, Norwood, Massachusetts

under the Act of March 3, 1879
tober 3, 1917, authorized, July 13, 1919

Boston Ofﬁce, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

‘VOL 66

Here’s wishing that 1933 will mean more
of peace, good will and happiness to us and
to all the world than came with 1932.

Deer are defenseless in heavy untram-
meled snow, especially if crust forms, for
they sink at each step and are unable to
run easily. '

Lady bugs are raised in large quantities
in California and shipped to fruit and veg-
etable growing districts for the purpose of
checking scale-insects and plant lice which
they eat.

Colored pictures, with a verse above, we
learn from The Animals’ Friend, are to be
seen in the streets of Feldkirch, Austrian
Tyrol, calling attention to the need of pro-
viding food in winter for the birds. The
verse, as roughly translated reads:

No friends, no seeds,

Ice! and snow lie all around.

0, let not charity delay

0r birds will sing in spring no more.

The majority of our readers will learn
with surprise that many of the most expen-
sive perfumes and soaps use certain extracts
from animals for what are known as ﬁxa-
tives. Beavers, muskrats, deer, even the
skunk. In other cosmetics, face powders,
creams, etc., animal ﬁxatives are likely to
appear except in the lighter perfumes such
as lavender. This we read in an article by
Mr. John B. Harman in The Animal
World. A well-known chemist conﬁrms his
statement. Many of these animals are the
victim of the steel trap.

The old Ross House, the family seat of the
Martin family, in Galway, Ireland, of which
Richard Martin, known the world over as
Humanity Martin, was a scion, and which
was nearly destroyed by ﬁre some months
ago, is now being restored. It would be a
pity for this ﬁne old mansion with its his-
toric associations to be left in ruins. Rich-
ard Martin, who secured from the British
Parliament the ﬁrst legislation for the pro-
tection of animals, was a member from
Galway.

January,l933
From Dr. Wilfred T. Grenfell

HE letter that follows from Dr. Wilfred
' T. Grenfell, so wide-1y known the world
over for his devoted and self—sacriﬁcing
work in Labrador, was written to one of
our humane education workers,i"Miss Lucia
Fessenden Gilbert. How characteristic it is
of the man whose great kindly heart moved
him to found the Mission forever associated
with his name! It was Miss Gilbert to whom
Sir Wilfred wrote in the fall of 1929, ask-
ing if she knew of anyone who might pro-
vide the necessary kennels for his dogs at
the Mission. After receiving his letter, Miss
Gilbert made an appointment with former
Governor Baxter, and out of that meeting
came Governor Baxter’s gift of some four
thousand dollars to build the Memorial Ken-
nels of the Grenfell Mission in memory of
his beautiful Irish setter “Garry.” These
kennels provide almost ideal quarters for
the indispensable dogs—something like
twenty in number—of the Mission. We are
told that the inﬂuence of this gift has
spread its message Of kindness to animals
all up and down the coast.

Lessons in kindness and an ingrained
teaching of kindness to animals are simply
invaluable in the formation of character.
It makes better youth all the world over,
and it helps all the virtues, even the inter-
national ones. It fosters the power to sym-
pathize. It makes more sympathetic and
understanding husbands. It is a real factor
in preventing the terrible tale of divorces.
Christ’s great characteristic was kindness,
which is a form of courage.

May God give you inﬁnite success in your
campaign for kindness to animals. This is
certain that the world not only is, but al-
ways must be, ultimately run upon our emo-
tions, and, if emotions are our essential
guides, kindness is the one to trust ﬁrst of
all, because it is absolutely proved that it—
and it alone—leads to a worth-while world.
Children should begin by being kind to
dumb animals, and to be taught kindness
is a very, very deﬁnite part of education,
for “education,” in Latin, means to lead out
of yourself, and education is not education

lﬂo.l

at all if it only gives you passing informa-
tion and leaves you selﬁsh and cruel. No,
no, kindness should come before Latin and
Greek or even mathematics. An unkind
doctor is unthinkable, an unkind lawyer is
not a justice-seeking lawyer, an unkind poli-
tician is no man to deal with affairs of poor
subjects or with international affairs. An
unkind parson? What of him? Could you
listen to his preaching?

Kindness to all God’s creatures is an ab-
solutely essential, rock-bottom factor and
necessity in any world where peace and
righteousness can be universal and perma-
nent. We know we need kindness for our-
selves. God help us to learn to give it!

As to Vermont, and your work here, dear
Miss Gilbert, you have all the co-opera-
tion I am able to give, and all of Lady
Grenfell’s.

With best of good wishes,

Yours,
(Signed) WILFRED T. GRENFELL

October 27, 1932 ,

Malicious Attacks on Hu-

mane Trapping Law

RTICLES are appearing in certain

papers of the Commonwealth that are
nothing less than a repetition of misstate-
ments and misrepresentation concerning
our recently obtained humane trapping
law. They afﬁrm that a vast increase among
the “predatory” fur-bearers is threatening
the existence of the game birds, and that
these animals are multiplying so fast as to
become a nuisance.

After referring to a prize offer of $500
by the American Humane Association for
the best humane traps for the year, and to
the banning of the steel trap by Massachu-
setts, one article in question says: “Since
that taboo went into effect the number of
vermin animals has been steadily on the in-
crease. Today eve-n Boston suburban areas
are overrun with skunks—the polecat hav-
ing come back into prominence as a pest in
hundreds of rural districts and country
towns throughout the state. Weasels and

 




 

Oct. 1933
Voice of the Night

SOLVEIG PAULSON

Out in the woods at night time,

With the stars hanging bright and high,
I stirred in my sleep and listened

To the voice of the night’s low cry.

Mournful and mild and tender,
It came on a stirring breeze
And whispered among the bushes
And lifted through the trees.

“Hush, little creatures, and rest,
Hush, little birds and fawn,

Rest in the dusky shadows,
You are safe till the break of dawn.

“You are safe from dogs and hunters,
From the cruel greed of men,

Rest now in the quiet darkness,
For morning brings fear again.”

I gazed at the twinkling heavens
And pondered the Maker’s plan,

In giving the fate of His creatures
Into the hands of man.

I pondered until I knew
With a knowledge sure and meek
That strength was only meant to be
Protection for the weak.

An Englishman, on a visit to the West,
decided to go horseback riding. The hostler
who was to attend him asked: “Do you pre-
fer an English saddle or a Western saddle?”

“What’s the difference between them?” he
asked. “The Western saddle has a horn,”
replied the attendant. “I don’t think I’ll
need the horn,” said the Englishman. I
don’t intend to ride in heavy trafﬁc.”

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

On Keeping the Eyes Open

WALTER A. DYER

pathy for the person whose love for ani-

mal life is bounded by the remark, “I
love dogs but I hate cats.” Personal idi-
osyncrasies must be taken into account, but
it seems to me that no one can rightly lay
claim to a genuine love for animals whose
interest is restricted to horses or to birds
or to any one species. The Whole wide world
of living, sentient creatures has been given
us to enjoy, and cruelty and injustice will
cease only when mankind recognizes his
kinship with them all.

So far as wild life is concerned, most of
us know little enough about it, and that
is probably why so many of us complac-
ently accept the law of the hunter, that
grouse are to be shot, foxes trapped, and
snakes killed with a club. To know more
about them all becomes the duty of the
humanitarian, and that knowledge cannot
come from watching animals in a zoo.

I have little patience with the man or
woman who professes ignorance of bird and
animal life on the ground that he or she
has no time or opportunity to become a
naturalist. One does not need to become a
naturalist in order to feel acquainted with
the lives of the wild creatures about us.
In small towns and in the country, par-
ticularly, all one needs to do is to keep one’s
eyes open and the acquaintance will often
come unasked.

I have never in my life gone about look-
ing for humming-birds, for example, but
every year the lovely little creatures come
to me. When I am least expecting a visit a
humming-bird will often appear swiftly
within the range of my vision, make his

11 HAVE never been able to feel much sym-

 

,. Acme PhOtO

GROSS CRUELTY BY DOG RACERS CHARGED IN LOS ANGELES

Almost unbelievable cruelty to animals was charged in Los Angeles recently
when three men were arrested as they were training racing dogs to chase rabbits.
Ofﬁcer H. G. Grandy, who took the accompanying photograph, reported that the
helpless, live rabbit was suspended from the pole attached to the track by a cord
run through the rabbit’s ﬂesh! The man in the picture is J. L. Eving, Grandy’s

partner.

lightning-like foray on the garden ﬂowers,
and vanish, but in that short time I have
learned something about him.

Of all the garden ﬂowers, I believe that
columbines are the best lure for the hum—
ming-bird. Last year I had reason to be-
lieve that a pair of humming-birds had a
nest not far from our columbines, though I
never found it. One may often go a whole
summer without ever seeing a humming-
bird except on the wing, but this pair often
came to rest nearby. I had an excellent
chance to observe their coloring—the male
with his back of bright metallic green and
his ruby—red throat like iridescent satin, and
the female in her duller greenish gown.

I am told that male humming-birds some—
times ﬁght terriﬁc though miniature duels.
I have never witnessed that sight, but I did
see my pair at their second courting. The
date was June 20. I saw the wee lady ﬁrst
sitting like a feathered grace note on the
telephone wire. Then she ﬂew down and
alighted on a bush not far from our col-
umbines. From somewhere the male sud-
denly appeared. He darted at her like a
bullet, as though intending to strike her a
killing blow with his sharp bill, but he
veered off just in time. It was, no doubt,
a part of the technique of humming-bird
wooing. The lady remained unrufﬂed.

Then began the most amazing perform-
ance I have ever seen. The male began
swinging in a big arc, perhaps twenty-ﬁve
feet wide, and rising eight or nine feet
from the ground. Each swing brought him
Within a hair’s breadth of his unperturbed
and apparently unimpressed mate. Back
and forth he swooped a dozen times, as if
in a huge swing or at the end of .a long
pendulum. Then he darted off like. an
arrow and his mate, in her own good time,
followed.

Other birds have come wooing in my very
dooryard. The prettiest of all, I think, IS
the purple ﬁnch. I saw him once in the
dust of the road, with his wings spread and
his tail raised fan-shape like a miniature
turkey cock, strutting and dancing about
his indiﬂ’erent inamorata and uttering plain—
tive little peeps. When she ﬂew to the low
branch of a tree he followed and presently
I heard his delicious song of rapture. Balti-
more orioles come courting in May and I
hear the male’s appealing call, “Here, here,
sweetheart, over here, please.” Barn swal-
lows play the game of love boldly on the
telephone wire, the male sidling ever closer
to his mate until, annoyed, she ﬂies away.

All such glimpses of intimate bird life
come not alone to ornithologists but to any—
one who will keep his eyes open. One day,
early in June, I watched a young robln With
speckled breast among the growmg plants
in our annual ﬂower bed. He was being
patiently taught to hunt by a parent not
much bigger than himself. His mother kept
bringing up bugs and worms and thrustlng
them down his seemingly bottomless gullet.
Then she would hop away a bit and scold
him for being so slow and stupid. It was
high time he was foraging for himself. But
he only stood there and waited, obviously
counting on her continued indulgence, curi-
ously like a great, overgrown, backward
schoolboy.

 

 

 

 




 

Nov. 1983

“Frolic”

REV. WALTER SCOTT

Dear “Frolic,” thirteen years or more
We’ve lived as friends together

Through lights and shadows, ups and downs,
And every kind of weather.

There is a mystic tie that binds
Together dogs and man,

It is a very happy lot,
Part of great Nature’s plan.

You’ve been a ﬁne and kindly dog,
The best dog I have known
Through many years, through smiles and
tears,
Whatever winds have blown.

But, Frolic, both for dogs and man
The sunset bell shall sound,

And to the best of comradeship
The parting time comes round.

I pay my tribute, old time friend,
You. have done much for me;

I praise your worth, and keep for aye
A happy memory.

The Discontented Camel

LL camels are discontented. They hate

being camels, but they would hate to be
anything else, because in their opinion all
other living creatures are beneath contempt,
especially human beings. The expression
upon their faces when they pass you on the
road indicates that they regard you as a
bad smell.

They nurse a perpetual grievance against
mankind, and ruminate upon their wrongs
until they groan aloud; yet when you go
to them to ﬁnd out what is the matter they
give you no hint of any speciﬁc trouble, but
merely look at you with sad, reproachful
eyes and groan more loudly, or, in certain
cases when their sense of unbearable insult
is overwhelming, try rather half-heartedly
to bite you.

Their days are irksome to them; they
have no hope; they make no friends; they
just complain and unwillingly submit. When
they are being ridden they do not attempt
to co-operate with their riders; and when
they are being used as beasts of burden
they protest indignantly but ineffectually
against their loads, and try their best to
make you feel a cad.

ARTHUR WEIGALL in Strand Magazine

Annuity Bonds

Many men and women, lovers of animals,

are getting both happiness and material
comfort from our two Societies’ Annuity
Bonds. These bonds are absolutely safe,
and yield a return according to one’s
age. Send the coupon for full details.
The Massachusetts S. P. C. A. (or)
The American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Ave., Boston, Mass.

Without obligation to me, please send

me your folder which tells all about your
Annuity Bonds.

...............................

OUR DUMB

ANIMALS
The Cat by the Fire

C. M. LITTELJOHN

 

Page 178

 

HE ﬁreside friend, or foyer compan-

ion, has his rightful place in the clubby

family circle beside the blazing logs.
In new-found leisure of today there is more
time for greater enjoyment of the ﬁre and
cultivation of the family circle.

Extended before the dancing blaze, some-
thing of the great warmth of the ﬁre itself
seems harbored in the cat. Her sense of
warmth is conveyed in a friendly purr, as
she comes in close to the ﬂames. She nods
in complete satisfaction, and lets her furry
skin slowly close like shutters over her
beautiful yellow eyes turned sidewise by
the sandman.

Not noticing her at times, the family ex-
changes experiences of the day, talks of
plans, and chatters away before the ﬂick-
ering ﬂames. Yet the cat is absorbed most
completely into the family circle spread
about the ﬁreplace or hearth, which has
been the real center of the home from
medieval days to the present, and which
quite recently is enjoying something ap-
proaching a renaissance.

Seated on the edge of the rug, or curled
on a cushion of the davenport, the cat
teaches the art of leisure, of unhurried and
unharried existence, of being without care
or worry. She gives herself up to utter en-
joyment and purring contentment, which is
expressed in every extended, relaxed limb.
And she seems to enjoy the silence more
than the gossip, since she cannot be tempt—
ed to unbosom herself at any time.

Many delightful visions one glimpses in
the ﬁre. The cat blinks at the faces out-
lined or observed'by the family as etched
in the ﬂame-s, the swirling blues of gas and
air, ﬂickering shadows that glide and van-
ish, and which have a kind of eeriness when
the ﬁre is the only light remaining in the
room. Shadows of folk by the ﬁre are cast
on ceiling and rear walls, now as giants,
now as dwarfs, grotesque or bizarre, as the
ﬂames happen to ﬂare here and there in
their mad dance between the andirons.

And how much more enjoyable for both
cat and family is this common interest,
this direct tie with the feline pet, this great
natural phenomenon, one of the earliest
discoveries of pre-historic man in the midst
of that wild nightmare age, when terrible
monsters, now departed from this earthly
scene, unexpectedly routed families in
ﬂight from their caves.

Nobody is required to say a word at
the hearth; the ﬁre does all the chatting.
But when conﬁdences are exchanged, the
matters discussed never leave the room.
The cat, who is privy to all family coun-
cils, never intrudes or pries. A conﬁdant

of the little circle, she is nevertheless more
often bored than inquisitive of any family
secrets.

The cat is at her best at such a ﬁreside.
Cat and family nod together there as the
evening advance-s, postponing through sheer
comfort the hour of leaving the golden
silence of the ﬂame-shadowed room.

The best of everything has gone up the
chimney in smoke, just as the best of life
goes up in laughter. All the lingering fra-
grance of the spiced forest scents exuded
from the burned logs is enjoyed by every-
one. There the family is secluded from the
world, and there the entire world is ex-
cluded.

Is there any more interesting or delight-
ful spot on a damp autumn or winter even-
ing than the ﬁreplace, where home ﬁres
are kept burning, and a sphinx-like cat
reposes before the blazing logs?

Poison Bait Kills Wild Life '

HAZELANA GOODWIN

OISON bait scattered in Colorado for-

ests to kill coyotes is killing oﬁ the
birds, and, without birds to keep down the
insect pests, the trees are dying by tens of
thousands.

This charge is made by Dr. Louis A.
Bean, of Denver and Indian Hills, Colorado,
a lifelong student of Colorado wild life, in
a letter to Governor Ed. C. Johnson. Dr.
Bean urges that Colorado adopt a state
law to make the use of poison bait a pen-
itentiary offense in Colorado.

He charges that federal ofﬁcers, aiming
at destruction of coyotes, mountain lions,
and other predatory animals considered
killers of sheep and cattle, are scattering
huge quantities of poison suet through the
forests. All birds eat suet.

Birds such as wrens and ﬂickers that eat
woodticks, sapsuckers and woodpeckers that
devour bugs and worms from the trees,
and chicadees that keep tree branches free
of insects, are no more. Field birds, sheep,
horses, and cattle are killed by poison grain
put out to kill rabbits and other ﬁeld ro-
dents.

The woodtick is the transmitter of Rocky
Mountain spotted fever. The battle with
the insects can only be won by protecting
the birds.

Do not under any consideration, leave
your cat to shift for itself when you are
away from home or the house is vacant.
To abandon your cat is criminal and inhu-
mane. There is a law against such cruelty.

 

 

 




 

 

 

ﬁlay,1933

 

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds
JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman, Chase Harris Forbes
Corporation
CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President, United Shoe
Machinery Corporation
PHILIP STOCKTON, President, First National Bank of
Boston
Prosecuting Ofﬁcers in Boston
Telephone (Complaints, Ambulances) Regent 6100
L. WILLARD WALKER, Chief Ofﬁcer
HARRY L. ALLEN DAVID A. BOLTON
HARVEY R. FULLER HOWARD WILLAND
WALTER B. POPE
County Prosecuting Ofﬁcers
HERMAN N. DEAN, Boston.
Middlesex, Norfolk and Plymouth
FRED T. VICKERS, Boston Eastern Essex
WILLIAM W. HASWELL, Methuen, Western Essex
THEODORE W. PEARSON, Springﬁeld,
Hampden, Hampshire and Franklin
ROBERT L. DYSON, Worcester, Worcester
WINFIELD E. DUNHAM, New Bedford, Bristol
HAROLD G. ANDREWS, Hyannis,
Barnstable, Dukes and Nantucket
EDWIN D. MOODY, Pittsﬁeld, Berkshire

Rest Farm for Horses and Small Animal Shelter,
Methuen
W. W. HASWELL, Superintendent

Women’s Auxiliary of the Mass. S. P. C. A., 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston—MRS. EDITH WASHBURN
CLARKE, Pres.; MRS. A. J. FURRUSH, Tres.; MISS
HELEN W. POTTER, Rec. Sec.; MRS. JOHN A. DYKE-
MAN, Cor. Sec.; MRS. A. P. FISHER, Chair. Work
Committee.

Springﬁeld Branch—MRS. DONALD C. KIBBE, Pres.;
MRS. GEORGE S. SABIN, Sec.

Winchester Branch—MRS. RICHARD S. TAYLOR,
Pres.; MRS. CAROLYN B. RICE, Sec.

MONTHLY REPORT OF OFFICERS

Miles traveled by humane ofﬁcers. 13,974
Cases investigated .............. 507
Animals examined .............. 6,855
Number of prosecutions .......... 9
Number of convictions .......... 8
Horses taken from work ......... 19
Horses humanely put to sleep . . . . 37
Small animals humanely put to
sleep ........................ 907
Stock-yards and Abattoirs
Animals inspected .............. 35,652
Cattle, swine and sheep humanely
put to sleep .................. 37

The Massachusetts Society for the Pre-
vention of Cruelty to Animals has been
remembered in the wills Of Caroline A. FOX
of Arlington, and Charles H. Farnsworth
Of Brookline.

April ‘11, 1933.

Our readers are urged to clip from “Our
Dumb Animals” various articles and re-
quest their local editors to republish.
Copies so mutilated will be made good by
us upon application.

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

i

 

Angell Memorial Animal Hospital
and
Dispensary for Animals

184 Longwood Avenue Telephone, Regent 6100

Veterinarians

H. F. DAILEY, v.M.D., Chief
R. H. SCHNEIDER, v.M.D., Asst. Chief
E. F. SCHROEDER, D.V.M.
W. M. EVANS, D.V.S.
G. B. SCHNELLE, V.M.D.
T. O. MUNSON, v.M.D.
HARRY L. ALLEN, Superintendent

Springﬁeld Branch

53-57 Bliss Street, Springﬁeld, Mass.

THEODORE W. PEARSON, General Manager
A. R. EVANS, v.M.D., Veterinarian

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

HOSPITAL REPORT FOR MARCH
Including Springﬁeld Branch

Hospital Dispensary
Cases entered 685 Cases 2,175
Dogs 510 Dogs 1,761
Cats 159 Cats 380
Horses ’7 Birds 26
Birds 5 Horses 4
Monkeys 2 Goats 2
Goat 1 Monkey 1
Marmoset 1 Rabbit 1

Operations 1,038

Hospital cases since Opening, Mar.

1, 1915 ....................... 109,925
Dispensary Cases ................ 244,900
Total ......................... 354,825

MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A. IN THE
COURTS

Summary of Prosecutions for March

For unnecessarily failing to provide food
and shelter for two cattle, defendant pleaded
guilty and was sentenced to House of Cor-
rection for twenty days; suspended for
one year.

Non—providing proper food and shelter
for two cows, heifer, calf, and horse, de-
fendant was convicted; case ﬁled and he
was ordered to dispose of all his stock ex-
cept one cow. He was receiving welfare aid.

Non-providing proper food for two dogs,
on plea of mole, defendant was ﬁned $10.

N on-providing food and shelter for horse
and sheep, defendant pleaded guilty and
was given twenty—day sentence to House
of Correction, suspended one year.

For selling a horse unﬁt for labor, poor
in ﬂesh and lame, defendant guilty. He
was given a thirty days’ suspended sentence
and put on probation for three months.

For cruelly beating a dog, shooting and
wounding him, offender pleaded guilty. He
was ﬁned $15. He was unable to pay, hav—
ing a large family, and ﬁne was suspended.

Failing to provide proper and sufﬁcient
food for his ﬁfteen head of cattle, defend—
ant guilty; case ﬁled. He promised to dis-
pose of his stock.

For non—providing proper shelter for
sow and pigs, defendant guilty. After he
had cleaned up and repaired pen to meet
requirements Of humane ofﬁcer, the court
ﬁled case.

More friends are needed to endow stalls
and new kennels in the Angell Memorial
Animal Hospital. Payments of thirty-ﬁve
dollars for a kennel or seventy-ﬁve dollars
for a stall will insure a suitable marker
inscribed with donor’s name. Terms of
permanent endowment of free stalls and
kennels will be given upon application to

the Massachusetts S. P. C. A., 180 Long-

wood Avenue, Boston.

 

4.5- ”22> ‘45,, , MAJ ,1.

A Rare Dog

He has been here at our Hospital. The
ﬁrst patient Of his kind, part collie, part
Kentucky coon hound. He is twelve years
Old, still handsome, unusually affectionate,
loyal and intelligent. His master, Father
Connelly, is a lover of animals and from
his pulpit urges justice and compassion to-
ward all animal life upon all the members
Of his parish.

Hospitality Day in May

Arrangements for a Hospitality Day,
Thursday, May 11, from 1 to 5 PM , at the
Angell Animal Hospital, 180 Longwood
Avenue, Boston, to which all members of
the Society and friends are invited, were
made at a meeting Of the Women’s Auxil-
iary Of the Massachusetts S. P. C. A., held
at the home of Mrs. Herbert Prescott,
Brookline, on April 18. There will be music,
afternoon tea, and a food sale. Bridge will
be a principal attraction. At the April
meeting Mr. Lester W. Smith of Babson
Park gave an interesting talk on our native
birds. Tea was served, with Mrs. John
Dykeman chairman.

The annual meeting of the Auxiliary,
with election of members, will be held
Tuesday, May 23.

For Humane Workers

The American Humane Education SO—
ciety is collecting a trust fund for the
beneﬁt Of those who have spent their lives
in the service Of promoting humane educa-
tion.

So far gifts to the amount Of $6,067 have
been received. If you wish to contribute,
please make checks payable to Treasurer,
American Humane Education Society, 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston, and specify that
the amount is for the Humane Education
Trust Fund.

The Massachusetts S. P. C. A. also is
raising a special fund to provide, when nec-
essary, for employees who have been re-
tired or for any reason are incapacitated
for further service.

 

 

 




 

-_ ._ “balm“.‘(w’ ‘ 7’

GLORY TO
GOD,
PEACE ON EARTH,

AND MERCY TO
EVERY LIVING
CREATURE.

 

Founded by Geo. T. Angell. Incorporated, 1889

For rates of membership in both of our Societies
see back cover. Checks should be made payable to
Treasurer.

Ofﬁcers of the American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds
JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman, Chase Harris Forbes
Corporation
CHARLEs G. BANCROFT, Vice-President, United Shoe
Machinery Corporation

PHILIP STOCKTON, President, First National Bank of
Boston

Foreign Corresponding Representatives

George B. Duff ................. Australia
Charles A. Williams ............ France

Luis Pareja Cornejo ............ Ecuador

Leonard T. Hawksley ............ Italy

Mrs. Mary P. E. Nitobe .......... Japan

Mrs. Marie C. E. Houghton ...... Madeira

Dr. A. T. Ishkanian ............. Mexico

Luther Parker ................... Philippine Islands
Joaquin Julia .................... Spain

Rida Himadi .................... Lebanon and Syria
Mrs. Alice W. Manning .......... Turkey

Humane Press Bureau
Address, 180 Longwood Ave., Boston

Field Workers of the Society

Mrs. Alice L. Park, Palo Alto, California
Mrs. Rachel C. Hogue, San Diego, California
Mrs. Jennie R. Nichols, Tacoma, Washington
James D. Burton, Oakdale, Tennessee

Mrs. Katherine Weathersbee, Atlanta, Georgia
Rev. F. Rivers Barnwell, Fort Worth, Texas
MISS Blanche Finley, Richmond, Virginia
Rev. John W. Lemon, Ark, Virginia

Miss Lucia F. Gilbert, Boston, Massachusetts
Mrs. Jennie R. Toomim, Chicago, Illinois
Seymour Carroll, Columbia, S. C.

Field Representative ,.
Wm. F. H. Wentzell, M.S., Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

Field Lecturers in Massachusetts
Ella A. Maryott L. Raymond Talbot

A Retirement Fund

HE American Humane Education So-

ciety has so far, received gifts amount-
ing to $6,026 for its trust fund for the
beneﬁt of ﬁeld missionaries and others who
have spent their lives in the service of
promoting humane education.

If you desire to contribute to this fund,
please make checks payable to Treasurer,
American Humane Education Society, 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston, and specify that
the amount contributed is for the Humane
Education Trust Fund.

The Massachusetts S. P. C. A. also is
raising a special fund to provide, when ne-
cessary, for employees who have been re-
tired or for any reason are incapacitated
for work. Contributions to this fund should
be sent to the Treasurer and marked plainly

for Massachusetts S. P. C. A. Retirement
Fund.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

DECEASED FRIENDS

Who Made Bequests to the Massachusetts
5. P. C. A. and the American Humane
Education Society in 1932
NOTE :——Names of all earlier deceased .friends, mak—
ing similar bequests, appear in the Issues of Our

Dumb Animals for February, 1928, 1929, 1930, 1931,
and 1932.

William Appleton, Boston

Frank H. Beebe, Boston

Ada B. Berry, Rochester, N. H.
Mary E. Bullard, Westboro

George G. Cook, Milford

Mrs.- Annie A. Daniels, Milford

Mrs. Lua‘nna L. Dame, Amesbury
Alice Tilton Damrell, Boston

Octavia G. Dupee, Wellesley
Charles F. Edgarton, Concord
Florence M. England, Winthrop
Myra R. Fearl, Orange

Florence H. Goodsell, Arlington
John P. Hazlett, Boston

Ella E. Howe, Marlboro

Mary V. Hinckley, Brookline
Frances Emily Hunt, Brookline
Grace A. S. Hutchinson, Winthrop
Mildred Johnson, Dedham

Horace A. Latimer, Portland, Maine
Mrs. B. Agnes McKenzie, Cambridge
Emma A. Presby, Boston

Dr. William L. Richardson, Boston
Emily E. St. John, Cambridge
Louesa S. Sawin, Newton

Annie L. Sears, Waltham

Mrs. Sarah Fuller Smith, Lynn
Eugenia Tiffany, Worcester

Sarah E. Wensen, Gloucester

Mrs. Henry M. Whitney, Cambridge
Miss Annie L. Wood, Newton
Elizabeth J. Wood, Holyoke .
Lida R. Woodward, West Springﬁeld

Monthly Report from Fez

We regret that the November report came
too late for our last issue.
Monthly Expense Account
November, 1932 —— 30 Days

 

Daily average large animals 84.3
Forage for same $176.88
Daily average, dogs 13.6
Forage for same 8.00
Put to sleep 21 7.46
Transportation 6.20
Wages, grooms, etc. 72.85
Inspector’s wages 17.67
Superintendent’s Salary 98.15
Assistant’s salary 49.08
Veterinary’s salary 15.70
Motor allowance 9.81
Sundries 53.15
$514.95

Entries: Horses, 11; mules, 28; donkeys, 77; bull, 1.

Exits: Horses, 12; mules, 22; donkeys, 57; bulls,
3; and camel, 1.

Supt.’s Notes: We have more than 1,000 francs’
worth of straw in stock and 4,000 francs of barley.
This month’s average indicates no estimate of capac-
ity, since just now nearly all large animals are used
for ploughing out in the country. This is why the
average is no larger than before the Annex was used.

Visits: 380 fondouks visited; 5,528 animals seen;
1,461 animals treated; 77 animals sent in.

Mistress: “Clara, give the goldﬁsh a few
more ants’ eggs. It is my birthday and I
want to see happy faces around me.”

——Pa-ssiug Show

We are. certain that unless the churches
take a clear and consistent stand on this
matter of life and death (war) to our civil-
ization and to the world they will merit the
contempt of men and the judgment of God.

HARRY EMERSON FOSDICK

FEb.1938

A Letter from a Banker

HE following is from a good friend,

the president of a well-known Massa-
chusetts bank, who says “I enjoy more than
I can tell you, your monthly publication.”

Dear Mr. Editor :

Being a lover of animals, perhaps it
would be interesting to your readers to
learn of a few of my experiences with them.

When living in a neighboring small city
and being about seven years of age, I was
walking along the main street when I real—
ized that there was considerable commotion
in the direction in which I was walking. As
I went along a good-sized dog ran up to me,
apparently appealing for protection. It had
always been my custom to speak in a
friendly manner to dogs and this fellow
seemed really to be in want of a friend. I
stopped and patted him and noticed that he
was quite excited. At that age, naturally,
I could not have been of much help to him,
but soon an ofﬁcer came running along with
a revolver in his hand and in a few mo-
ments there was a report and the poor dog
was murdered, the ofﬁcer claiming that it
was a mad dog. He certainly did not act
like a mad dog, when he came to me, and
others noticed that I had patted him. How
foolish that the world should believe that
there is such a thing as a “mad dog.” I
have never known fear of any kind in meet;
ing strange dogs. Many, many times I have
had them come out at me, barking ﬁercely,
but have always either remained quiet or
walked slowly to them, talking quietly all
the while, and I have yet to meet the ﬁrst
dog that did anything but come up and
really want to act friendly. ~

At my summer home in the country,
where the farm is worked on shares, a
farmer had a large, rangy, attractive pair
of roan horses. I frequently would give
them fresh grass and sugar. One day while
this team was in town I met the farmer on
the sidewalk and was talking with him in an
ordinary tone of voice, not noticing that
the team was anywhere near us. Soon the
farmer spoke to me, saying, “Do you see
what the horses you know so well are do-
ing?” I looked and, behold, they were com-
ing right on to the sidewalk up to me, hav-
ing heard my voice.

I have had many experiences with dogs—
too many to mention, in fact—but will tell
you of just one that happened within a few
days. During the heavy Christmas shopping
I went into a chain store to purchase some-
thing and did not know that a large dog was
lying almost in front of me under the shelf
of a counter. When I turned to leave my
foot hit the dog, I believe, in the neck or
head, and instantly his jaws were around
the lower part of my leg, but he released
his grasp quickly and sneaked away to the
rear of the store, undoubtedly expecting a
real kick. I followed him, feeling that an
apology was due from me and not from him.
I talked to him, and told him that I had ac-
cidentally hit him and did not know he was
near me, and suggested to him that I would
be more careful next time and perhaps it
would help him also not to be so quick. The
result was that he listened and walked up
to me, put his nose in my hand and wagged
his tail as much as to say, “It’s all for-
given.” We parted good friends, but he al-
most insisted upon going along with me.

 




 

 

HUMANE CALENDAR
FOR 1933

Colored picture, “Peace and Plenty.”
(Or, if wanted, George Washington
on his horse at Mt. Vernon, or, “Home,
Sweet Home,” or black and white pic-
ture of dog, cat and child.)

Mr. John B. Greer of the Newport
Daily News, Newport, R. I., in send-
ing a third order for our humane cal-
endars this year, said that he found
both children and grown-ups eager to
receive them.

The leaves of the pad, one for each
month, contain the usual valuable hu-
mane hints on the care of animals and
are especially adapted to use in
Schools.

Price: 20 cents per single copy,
two for 35 cents; $1.80 per dozen,
post-paid to any address.

The Calendar will be mailed prompt-
ly upon receipt of order which should
be sent early to avoid disappointment.
Address

American Humane Education Society

180 Longwood Avenue Boston, Mass.

 

 

 

 

L’ E N V O I
A PAPER OF QUALITY
FOR BUSINESS STATIONERY

Send for Sample
ARTHUR E. HAM & SONS,.10 High St., Boston

 

 

 

 

 

 

Established 1868

JAMES FORGIE’S SONS
17 Merchants Row
Boston, Mass.
HARNESS,

ENGLISH SADDLERY, AND
EVERYTHING FOR THE HORSE

K .

 

 

 

 

cg;

n—nn 32:: 321322 :23: ﬁll—n

Shampoo Regularly with
CUTICUBA SOAP

Precede by Applications of

CUTICURA {DINTMENT

Price 25c. each. Sample free.
"Cuticura,” Dept. 13K, Malden, Mass.

. .... .... .. ,Ir; .. “n nu
.. .--. . -...

A (Idress:

an—n—ﬂ‘"

vs 51“-. -v-v u--.

E

ﬁll—II—u—u

Humane literature and Band of Mercy Supplies

For sale by the American Humane Education Society and the Massachusetts S. P. C. A.,
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass, at these prices, postpaid.

Titles in bold face type are of books or booklets

Humane Calendar for 1933, each 20
cts., two for 35 cts. ............. $1.80 per dozen
Be Kind to Animals Poster, 17 x 22
inches, one for 10 cts., six for 50 cts.,
........................... $1.00
Our Dumb Animals, January to Decem-
ber, 1931, 1929 and 1930, bound in
cloth, special, each ............... .75
Colored Posters, 17 x 28 inches, with
attractive pictures and verses, six in

the set ......................... $1.00}

Be Kind to Animals Blotters, 61/3 x 3%. .$0.50 per 100

About the Horse

Black Beauty (English), cloth, 45 cents; paper, 20 cts.
The Shame of It l—Mutilating the horse

by setting up his tail. Dr. Rowley’s

protest against this cruelty for fash-

ion’s sake. Five illus., 4 pp. ...... Free
What Constitutes Cruelty, Francis H.

Rowley ......................... $0. 30 per 100
Humane Horse Book, 32 pp., 5 cts.

each or .........................
The Horse—Treatment of Sores, Dis-

eases, etc. ....................... .60 “ “
Humane Education Leaﬂet No. 5 ..... 50 “ “
The Horse’s Prayer ................ .30 “ “
The Bell of Atri, poem by Longfellow .50 “ “
The Care of Mules ................. .50 “ “

About the Dog

Beautiful Joe, new, illus., $1.50 ..... small, 50 cts.
Distemper in Dogs, Dr. Schneider ...... Free
Rabies vs. Running Fits, Dr. Schneider . Free

Eulogy on the Dog, by Vest, post-card $.1. 00 per 100
The Dog—Its Care in Health and Disease .60 “
Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 3 and 4.50 “ “

What the Chained Dog Says ........... .50 “ “
The Story of Barry ................... . .30 “ “
About the Bird
The Lady of the Robins ............. cloth, 35 cts.

Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 1 and 2 $0. 50 per 100
How the Birds Help the Farmer ....... .0

The Air-gun and the Birds ............ .50 “ “
The Trial of the Birds, play ........... each, 2 cts.

About the Cat

The Cat—Its Care in Health and Dis-
ease ................................. $0. 60 per 100

A Letter to Owners of Cats ............ .30

The Cat in Literature ................. .50 “ “

Do Not Leave Your Cat to Starve ...... .50 “ “

“Tdhez Beggar Cat,” post-card, 6 cts. per
................................. .50 “ “

About Other Animals

Prince Rudolf’s Quest, Kenniston, 150
pp. ., special .................... boards, 50 cts.
The Strike at Shane’s, cloth, 30 cts. .paper, 7 cts.

.Michael Brother of Jerry, Jack London, cloth, 75 cts.

Jack London Club Poster, 22 x 32 inches

one for 15 cts., two for 25 cts. ., ﬁve or

more ............................... each, 10 cts.
First pAid to Animals, Dr. Schneider,

8p ................................ $1. 00 per 100
Whatp is the Jack London Club? .30
Foreword from‘ ‘Michael Brother of Jerry” .30 “ “
Gripped in the Teeth of Steel, 2 pp... 1.00 “ “

About Other Animals—Continued

How to Kill Animals Humanely, 4 pp. .$1.00 per 100
Humane Education Leaﬂet, No. 6, Ani-

mals ................................ .50 “ “
Humane Education Leaﬂet, No.7, Farm

Animals ............................. .50 per 100
Ways of Kindness ..................... .50 per 100
Why the Toad is so Useful ............. .30 “ “
“Empty Tin Cans,” card ............... Free

Humane Education

The Humane Bulletin, for use in schools,

96 pp. .................. 12 cents each; ten for $1.00
Care and Kindness for Our Animal

Friends, 29 pp., paper covers, many

illus. ............. 15 cents each; seven for $1.00
Kindness Picture Book, 32 pp.

15 cents each; seven for $1.00

The Teacher’s Helper in Humane Edu-

cation, 32 pp. ..................
Humane Education—for Parents and

Teachers, 20 pp. ................. each, 10 cts.
Picture Lesson Cards, each, 10 cts., set

each, 10 cts.

of eight ..................... .- . . . 35 cts.
“Be Kind to Animals” Pennants ...... each, 25 cts.
“Be Kind to Animals” Placards ...... each, 3 cts.
The Humane Idea, Dr. Francis H.

Rowley ............... cloth, 35 cts.; paper, 15 cts.
Friends and Helpers (selections for -

school use), Sarah J. Eddy ....... cloth, 96 cts.
Animals as Seen by the Poets, Guy

Richardson, 32 pp. ..... cloth, 35 cts.; paper, 10 cts. .
Address to Boston Public Schools ...... $2.00 per 100
Lessons on Kindness to Animals ........ 3. 00

Fred Changes His Mind, play, 5 cts. each; six for 25 cts.
“And a Little Child Shall Lead Them,”

play ..................... 3 cts. each, ° six for 15 cts.
Friends of Fur and Feather, play, ..

3 cts. each; ten for 25 cts.

Humane Day in Schools, with class-room
" project, 8 pp. ....................... $2.00 per 100
Humane Exercises ..................... 2.00 “ “
Our Little Brothers and Sisters, sermon

for boys and girls, by Dr. Jefferson,

4 pp. .............................. .50 “ “
Humane Education, What to Teach and
How to Teach It .................... 50 “ “

Early Lessons in Kindness or Cruelty :50 “ “
Oustlines of Study in Humane Education,

............................... 1.50 “ “
A Talk with the Teacher ............... .50 “ “
The Coming Education .............. .30 “ “
A Festival of Tender Mercies .......... .50 “ “
A Great Prophecy, Dr Rowley ........ Free

Band of Mercy

“Be Kind to Animals” Buttons, three
styles—Band of Mercy, Humane So-
ciety, or S. P. C. A. .................. $1. 00 per 100
Buttons—white star on blue ground with

gilt letters and border, one cent each . 1.00 “ “
Badges, gold ﬁnish, large, 10 cts. ...... small, 5 cts.
“Band of Mercy” Pennant .............. 35 cts.
Songs of Happy Life, with Music, S.
J. Eddy ...................... 50 cts.
Songs of Happy Life (56 pages, words
only) ............................... $3. 00 per 100
Bandy of Mercy Membership Card .......
How to Form Bands of Mercy .......... 5.0 “ “
Does it Pay, story of one Band of Mercy .30 “ “

Please enclose remittance with orders for less than $1

AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY, 180 Longwood Ave., Boston, Mass.

 

 

 

HUMANE LIBRARY FOR 75 CTS.

A few copies remain of the bound volume
of OUR DUMB ANIMALS, including twelve
numbers, January to December, 1931,192 pp.
in all, about 150 illustrations. Attractively
bound in tan cloth. Regular price, $1. 25. Spec-
ial price, 75 cents, post- paid to any address.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

180 Longwood Avenue, Boston

 

 

 

 

 

 

Since 1 832

J. S. WATERMAN & SONS, INC.

@thertakers

BOSTON—BROOKLINE—CAMBRIDGE
City and Out-of-Town Service

 

 

 

city schools.)

 

 

 

Because of the continued demand for its showing, we have
just received a new print (on safety stock): of our popular
unsurpassed ﬁlm for teaching kindness to animals,

THE BELL OF ATRI

(One print of this ﬁlm is in constant use in the Boston

AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 150

One day I heard a sharp tapping on the
tin rain gutter of my barn and went to in—
vestigate. For some time I was puzzled,
but at length I solved the mystery. It was
not a woodpecker, as I had supposed, but a
mother phoebe chopping up an extra large
beetle before attempting to fee-d it to her
young.

But birds and animals are not the only
creatures whose interesting habits may be
revealed to the person with open eyes. Bees
and wasps and ants are a never-failing
source of interest. And spiders. I have
often wondered whether any creature dis-
plays more advanced reasoning power than
a spider when repairing his web. I have
often watched him at work. The big gossa-
mer wheel may have been built mechanically
and instinctively in the ﬁrst place, but when
a part of it has been in some way destroyed,
the repair job requires thought and plan-
ning of a high order that are never twice
the same. The spider crawls about the gap-
ing hole, studies the situation, plans his
campaign, and then begins to splice and
renew the strands until the beautiful struc-
ture is whole again. The intelligence dis-
played is sometimes almost unbelievable.

To train this faculty of observation in
children, and to cultivate their attitude of
inquiry, should be one of the major aims
of education, and it cannot well be done
in the school-room. Men and women who
grow up with eyes closed to the wonders
of the animal world are missing something
that no knowledge of books can replace.

More friends are needed to endow stalls
and new kennels in the Angel] Memorial
Animal Hospital. Payments of thirty-ﬁve
dollars for a kennel or seventy-ﬁve dollars
for a stall will insure a suitable marker
inscribed with donor’s name. Terms of per-
manent endowment of free stalls and ken-
nels will be given upon application to the
Massachusetts S. P. C. A., 180 Longwood

Avenue, Boston.

., a,

 

 

OUR

DUMB ANIMALS

Oct. 1333

Wild Mothers and Their Young

SILVERQUILL

ILD mothers are real mothers in
every sense of the word.

They are wooed by ardent part-
ners in all the romance of purring plea and
ﬂaming song. They are governed by the
strictest hymeneal laws, and they provide
the most comfortable homes imaginable for
their children.

Contemplate the woven wonder of the
oriole’s nest—the downy softness of the
mouse’s boudoir—the wind-rocked artistry
of the robin’s home—the mist—cooled corri-
dors of the sea gull’s cliff—the aspen twi-
light where wild fawns hide—the castled
crags where eagles brood—the vine-sweet
estate of the hermit thrush, and the tule-
guarded retreats to which the silken whisper
of the wild duck’s wings may lead!

What wild mother, unmolested, ever de—
serted her young? When storms sweep down
the hills, and the broad winds are brave on
the land, they cover their little ones with
their breasts, for the loves of wild mothers
go even to death. The mourning dove, the
quail and other birds simulate a broken
wing, ﬂuttering along the ground as if
wounded, in their eﬁorts to draw an enemy
away from their young to themselves. The
cow hides her calf and goes directly away
from it. The antelope blends her offspring
with the tawny vastness of the prairie, and
the silvermane rushes a tempest of fury on
anything that threatens her family.

What wild mother ever failed to provide
for her household? With the ﬁrst purple of
the damask dawn comes the whirr of pin-
ions—the little mothers of the wilderness
are abroad in search of food. To a small
round opening in an oak tree where a limb
had been, a thrush was seen to come every
ﬁve minutes with food over a period of some
hours. Yet this tireless provider did not
give all her morsels to one ﬂedgling, but fed
them all in turn.

In the Big Smoky Moun-
tains, of Idaho, a hunter
climbed to a hawk’s nest in
the top of a ﬁr tree for the
purpose of studying the birds
in it. While close to the nest
the mother hawk swooped
down upon him, trying to
beat him back with her wings.

There is something decid-
edly maternal in an opossum
carrying her progeny on her
back, their tails twisted
around her own. When un-
disturbed a grouse brood
will move through the moun-
tain mint with no more sound
than a falling leaf, save a
low whistling note which
keeps them together, but at
the ﬁrst detection of danger
the hen will utter a sudden
note of warning, and instant-
ly every member of the group
is on guard. A cat will carry
her kittens for miles, one at
a time, to remove them to a
place of safety. A mother
coyote digs several holes in
a given locality, and some of
them a considerable distance
apart. If her dwelling place

is discovered, and there is the slightest
opportunity, she will immediately whisk her
whelps away to another hole.

Family life among wild cattle is very
beautiful. One will ﬁnd some matronly old
cow, exercising a digniﬁed queenship over
her descendants to the third and fourth
generation, as they rotate about her. These
wild cattle mothers also have the very in-
teresting, almost human practice of turning
their young calves over to some old cow
chaperon in the spring that will take charge
of a dozen or more of them while their
mothers wander away in search of food.
Hidden in some warm dimple of the hill the
members of this little kindergarten will
cuddle close together, watched over and pro-
tected by the single old matron keeping her
faithful beat around them. At the ﬁrst sign
of danger she will set up a hideous bellow-
ing which will bring the absent parents back
at a tearing run with tempests of protesta-
tion, backs hunched and horns lowered for
the fray.

A pelican ﬁlls her pouch with ﬁsh which
her young bring forth with greedy beaks.
A prairie wolf gorges herself on her kill
and carries it to her hungry little ones in
her stomach. The mother deer is very affec-
tionate. In a lofty pass of the Sawtooth
Range, in Idaho, two travelers discovered a
doe and her fawns at a little spring below
some willows in an open gulch. At sight of
them the doe bounded away in the direction
of a dense aspen thicket, followed by one
of the fawns. But the other, becoming be-
wildered, began climbing the open hillside
toward the two men.

After running a hundred yards this wild
mother stopped suddenly and looked back.
Instantly she discovered the danger the
little creature was in, and there and then
took place one of the ﬁnest exhibitions of
maternal love ever seen in city or wilder-
ness, for the timid doe, though trembling
with fright, came dashing back, following
the fawn up the mountain to within a hun—
dred and ﬁfty feet of the intruders, trying
to attract the attention of her baby, her
glorious dark eyes cloudy with anxiety.

There she stood, unprotected in the open,
mastering her natural dread of man and
staking her life because of her love. No
woman ever did more, everything considered.
The hunters moved on, leaving the little
sylvan family to their certain reunion.

Liverpool’s Strong Horses

Liverpool claims the strongest horses in
the world, and that they are the descend-
ants of those that the Britons used in their
battle against the Romans about the be-
ginning of the Christian era. Two of these
horses actually pulled eighteen and a half
tons on a slippery road, and two others
pulled twenty-nine and a half tons on a
dynamometer built to register only twenty-
nine tons. —G0lden Age

What Will Rogers Says

Here is a queer streak in me. I am no
hunting man nor ﬁshing either. .. I just
don’t want to be shooting at any animal,
and even a ﬁsh I havn’t got the heart to
pull the hook out of him.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 1'74
@1112 Earth nfﬂllprrg

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary
E. A. MARYOTT, State Organizer
PLEDGE
I will try to be kind to all living creatures and
try to protect them from cruel usage.

The American Humane Education Society will send
to every person who forms a Band of Mercy of thirty
members, and sends the name chosen for the Band and
the name and post-ofﬁce address of the president who
has been duly elected, special Band of Mercy literature
and a gilt badge for the president.

See back cover for prices of literature and Band of

Mercy supplies.
NEW BANDS OF MERCY

One hundred and ﬁfty-eight new Bands
of Mercy were reported during September.
Of these, 132 were in Virginia, 22 in Penn-
sylvania, two in Colorado, and one each in
Massachusetts and Vermont.

Total number Bands of Mercy organized
by Parent American Society, 196,513

In the Cape of Good Hope

During the year ending June 30, 1933,
2,821 children took S. P. C. A. badges in

connection with the Band of Mercy of the,

Cape of Good Hope S. P. C. A. More than
7,050 children wrote essays in the competi-
tion conducted by the Society. The Girl
Guides organization encourages amongst its
members a much greater effort in the cause
of animals and asks assistance and support
of the S. P. C. A.

York Minster, England

We learn from Band of Mercy, London,
that nearly 1,700 York children attended a
service in the nave of York Minster last
June, specially arranged for them as mem-
bers of the York Band of Mercy by the
honorary secretary. The children repre-
sented 20 York schools, and each school had
been allocated a separate seating area in
the nave. The preacher based his sermon
on the need for kindness to animals. He
told the children several delightful stories
showing how responsive animals and birds
could be if treated kindly.

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

N 02). 1933

' The Dragon-fly

ROBERT SPARKS WALKER

boy or girl will not be graduated from

the grammar school until he or she is
able to tell on examination some of the com—
monest insect friends from the more harm-
ful ones. When this time comes, the lives of
tens of thousands of useful insect friends
will be guaranteed against ruthless destruc-
tion through present-day ignorance.

The fact is, were it not for the many use-
ful insects working constantly to hold the
harmful blood-sucking pests in check, many
a man and woman now living would be in
their graves. There are many of these
friends of ours who have failed to receive
general recognition as being benefactors to
mankind, and among them, the dragon-ﬂy
stands at the head of the list. He has been
slandered so long in being accused of feed-
ing and doctoring snakes, that people who
are educated are still asking the silly ques-
tions.

What a perfect model for an airplane is
a dragon-ﬂy! Sometimes you may be stand-
ing by the side of a brook or pond and
observe a dragon—ﬂy skimming the surface
and with the point of her abdomen draw a
line on the water. She is simply dropping
her eggs into the water which sink as so
many grains of sand to the bottom. After
they hatch, the young swim about feeding
on wiggletails and other harmful insect
larvae, thus taking advantage of the pests
before they reach maturity. Again, two
years later, you may be standing by the
same pond in the month of April or May
and see a very ugly stranger crawl out and
walk upon a stone or a weed or a stump.
Soon after drying out, the old skin begins
to split above his shoulders and then he
crawls out, and you will recognize your old
dragon-ﬂy friend. Now his wings are iri-
descent and beautiful, and after his body
has dried, he sails away into the airy depths
as skilfully as if he had had ten years
training. Now he skims the air, scooping
up mosquitoes, house-ﬂies and other harm-

G NE day, I trust in the near future, a

ful insects, and if he sees one that he is not
sure that he can snap up in his strong jaws,
he simply weaves his six legs into a basket
and scoops him up in it as he darts grace-
fully through the air.

Really, it was many years ago that I had
the great economic value of the dragon-ﬂy
brought to my attention, when early in the
morning two dozen passengers were waiting
for an early morning train in the midst of
a thousand or ten thousand mosquitoes. The
air was full of dragon—ﬂies and, as fast
as the mosquitoes would alight on our cheeks
and foreheads, these dragon-ﬂies would
snap the-m off. As a result, I never received
one bite. I have been preaching the preser-
vation of the dragon-ﬂy ever since. He is
surely nature’s check against these pests.

Because a dragon-ﬂy has bulging eyes
and has borne the reputation of feeding
snakes, there is still a general prejudice
against him. This is augmented by the fact
that many of them are seen about ponds
and creeks where many snakes dwell. But
mosquitoes hatch out from such places and
this makes it a favored place for the dragon-
ﬂy to tarry. A dragon-ﬂy moves so
swiftly that he visits all parts of the coun-
try where he ﬁnds business good, and this
may take him even on the hills. He is a
visitor to all parts of the city and may be
seen darting here and there about dense
hedgerows, snapping up the mosquitoes
that come thither to ﬁnd a shelter from the
warm sun. A true dragon-ﬂy does not fold
his wings when he alights, but his near-
relative, and he has three hundred kinsfolk
-—the damsel-ﬂy, folds her wings when she
is at rest.

For more than a quarter of a century I
have been patiently pleading through the
newspapers, magazines and on the lecture
platform for the preservation and protection
of the dragon-ﬂy, and yet every summer
educated people kill them and send them
to me for identiﬁcation. If men knew that
they are killing a family physician each
time they take the life of a dragon-ﬂy, I
am sure that they would be more care-ful.
Dragon-ﬂies are. too common not to be
known. I recall a Visit I made to Boston a
few years ago with my son. While waiting
for an opportunity to cross the street in
front of King’s Chapel, a kind woman whis-
pered to my boy that a bad looking ﬂy was
sitting on my hat and it might chew a hole
in it! It was nothing more than a dragon-
ﬂy, and my boy thanked her, but let his
friend whom he had known for years spend
all the time he wanted on his father’s felt
hat.

Dragon-ﬂies represent one kind of many
other friendly insects that have been labor-
ing for centuries to help make this world a
comfortable place for man to reside. Let us
recognize“ this service and teach the public
to throw the arm of protection about them.

Our readers are urged to clip from “Our
Dumb Animals” various articles and re-

quest their local editors to republish.

Copies so mutilated will be made good by
us upon application.

Remember the Mass. Society for Preven-
tion of Cruelty to Animals in your will.

 




 

Ahm.1933

   
  

u I \s
.égki‘lfng‘zz
'5 $3.15 I 'Ic-Q’v

a
.-
3- -

     

The Little Fellows

(Squirrels)
ELLA C. FORBES

Have you met the Little Fellows
Whisking, frishing up and down,
Beady-eyed and furry coated,
On the streets of Forest Town?

Have you seen them watching shyly,
From the bou‘ghs above your head?
Little eyes so full of sparkle,
Little hearts so full of dread.

If you school yourself to patience,
When they ﬁnd there is no trap

They will scamper up to breakfast
017‘ the goodies in your lap.

Little paws will meet your ﬁngers,
Little coats will brush your hand

While the Little Fellows greet you
A friend in Forest Land.

Courtesy of Our Animals

ARITHMETIC
One Down and One to Carry

 

 

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

¢
w
9/:
0
l“
43!

 

  

%‘

\I‘

>>IIIW V
nll’V”.
“.\\\§: Vt
my

:3" H

ﬁn

,\

' II I
@3‘

5
h

 

 

Silverdale “ Billy”

ELIZABETH ROONEY

HT was during my stay at our summer cottage, “Silverdale
Lodge,” that I made the acquaintance of this charming
baby deer. One of the neighbors found him one rainy day in
June, lying in the wet grass, a short distance from our cabin.
The mother deer was nowhere to be seen and so he took the
baby home with him.

At ﬁrst, the fawn refused to drink the milk they so kindly
offered him, but after considerable coaxing ﬁnally drank some
of it from a spoon. In a short time he was drinking the milk
and eating the other dainties the children gave him. His little
wobbly legs seemed rather weak and he slept a great deal of the
time for the ﬁrst few weeks. In a short time, however, he was
running nimbly about.

The name “Billy” was selected for him and he soon knew his
name and came when called. N 0w, every morning Billy is given
his liberty and quickly disappears into the forest. He generally
returns about supper time, but occasionally remains away over
night. The accompanying snap shows Billy eating a cookie
from my hand, and I’m quite sure he would say “I thank you,”
if he could talk!

Brave Rescue of Castaway Dog

ERG” is a queer name for a dog. It was given him be-
B cause he was found cast away on an iceberg far at
sea, and rescued. It is a thrilling story and true. He was a
big Newfoundland, believed to have been one of a team of
sledge dogs belonging to a seal hunter. With the aid of a
powerful telescope Berg was discovered by the crew of a
ship engaged in repairing the cable stretching from New-
foundland to Ireland. At ﬁrst he was thought to be a seal
but when the cable ship had nosed its course a little nearer
to him he proved to be a dog who had drifted on the ice—ﬂoe
more than a hundred miles.

The rescue of the dog was accomplished with the greatest
difﬁculty. Plowing through the heavy ice the ship forced its
way to where the exhausted and nearly starved dog lay. A
brave seaman climbed over the side and caught the dog’s har-
ness with a boat-hook and drew him on board. He recovered
in due time from his long fast and exposure and was adopted
by the whole ship’s company as its mascot. It was an act of
mercy, courageous and humane, prompted and performed
through man’s love for the most loyal of his animal friends.

 

 

 




 

 

rr—V‘ ‘44“ A“ M ’

 

 

 

 

Charles W. Broadbent Co.
SURGICAL SUPPLIES
Six Sixty Five Huntington Avenue
BOSTON - - - - MASS.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

HUMANE LIBRARY FOR $1.00

The new bound volume of OUR DUMB
ANIMALS, including the twelve numbers for
1932, is now ready. There are 192 pp. 1n all,
about 150 illustrations. Attractively bound 1n
red cloth. Price this season, only $1.00, post-
paid to any address.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

180 Longwood Avenue, Boston

 

 

 

 

.$‘¢.$‘¢..."¢O$~¢:

To Assure a Healthy
Scalp use

i ' o s... ...

Price 25c. each. Sample free.
Address: “Cuticura,” Dept. 9K, Malden, Mass.

“1‘“ l

:
0INTMENT ’
a
O

;$‘¢.ﬁ‘¢00.‘3‘¢.$~¢

 

 

Observe Humane Sunday

April 23, 1933

In your church, Sunday-school or

young people’s organization. Send

for these helps:

“Humane Education the Vital Need,”

Dr. Rowley

“Our Love for Animals”

“Our Little Brothers and Sisters,”
Dr. Jefferson

“Festival of Tender Mercies”

“Look at the Birds,” Dr. Jefferson

American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston

 

 

 

 

 

 

Established 1868

JAMES FORGIE’S SONS
l7 Merchants Row
Boston, Mass.
HARNESS.

ENGLISH SADDLERY, AND
EVERYTHING FOR THE HORSE

 

 

 

 

 

 

The new Morgan Dennis poster for

BE KIND TO ANIMALS WEEK
April 17-22

Should be displayed in every school-
room and Sunday-school in the land.
It bears no dates and is suitable for
every day in the year. Place your
order early and save disappointment.

American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Avenue., Boston

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Since 1 832

J. S. WATERMAN & SONS, INC.

@ﬁnhertakers

BOSTON—BROOKLINE—CAMBRIDGE
City and Out-of-Town Service

 

 

 

 

 

 

180 Longwood Avenue

 

For rentals of the ﬁlm

THE BELL OF ATRI

The best motion picture illustrating kindness to animals, during

BE KIND TO ANIMALS WEEK

It Will be necessary to make arrangements at once.
Safety and regular stock, also small 16—mm. for portable machines.

AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY

Boston, Mass.

 

 

 

 

 

Humane literature and Band of Mercy Supplies

for Be Kind to Animals Anniversary, April 17-22
and Humane Sunday, April 23, 1933

For sale by the American Humane Education Society and the Massachusetts S. P. C. A.,
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass, at these prices, postpaid.

Titles in bold-face type are of books or booklets

Be Kind to Animals Poster, 17 x 22
inches, one for 10 cts., six for 50 cts.,

or 16 ................... . ........ $1.00
Humane Calendar for 1933, each 20
cts., two for 35 cts. ............. $1.80 per dozen

Our Dumb Animals, 1932, bound volume $1.00
Our Dumb Animals, January to Decem—

ber, 1929, 1930, and 1931, bound in

cloth, special, each ............. .75
Colored Posters, 17 x28 inches, with

attractive pictures and verses, six in

the set ......................... $1.00
Be Kind to Animals Blotters, 6% x 3%. $0.50 per 100

About the Horse

Black Beauty (English), cloth, 45 cents ; paper, 20 cts.
The Shame of It l—Mutilating the horse

by setting up his tail. Dr. Rowley’s

protest against this cruelty for fash-

ion’s sake. Four illus., 4 pp.

. Free
What Constitutes Cruelty,

Francis H.

Rowley ......................... $0.30 per 100
Humane Horse Book, 32 pp., 5 cts.

each or ......................... 5.00 “ “
The Horse—Treatment of Sores, Dis-

eases, etc. ....................... .60 “ “

Humane Education Leaﬂet No. 5 .....

'50 ‘6 CI
The Horse’s Prayer ................ .30 “ “
The Bell of Atri, poem by Longfellow .50 “ “
The Care of Mules ................. .50 “ “

About the Dog
Beautiful Joe, new, illus., $1.50 .....
Distemper in Dogs, Dr. Schneider ...... ree
Rabies vs. Running Fits, Dr. Schneider . Free
Eulogy on the Dog, by Vest, post-card $1.00 per 1 0
The Dog—Its Care in Health and Disease “ “

small, 50 cts.

‘ .60

Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 3 and 4 .50 “ “
What the Chained Dog Says ........... .50 “ “
The Story of Barry .................... .30 “ “

About the Bird

The Trial of the Birds, play, each 5 ct 2
Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos.,1 ancsl. 2$ .0500pe‘r1‘00
How the Birds Help the Farmer

The Airs... and the Birds .....::::::: :33 ~ ..
About the Cat

The Cat—Its Care in Health and Dis-

ease ..............................
A Letter to Owners of Cats ........... $0331)?“ 190
The Cat in Literature ................. .50 “ “
Do Not Leave Your Cat to Starve .50 “ “
The Beggar Cat,” post-card, 6 cts. per. .

doz. ................................ 50 “ “

About Other Animals
Prince Rudolf’s Quest, Kenniston, 150
Thpepétiilfglglt Shane’s cl. th ......... boards, 50 cts.
Michael Brother , o , 30 cts. ..paper. 7 cts.

0f Jerry! JaCk L .
Jack London Club Poster, 22 x 32 irriglfens’ CIOth' 75 cts.

one for 15_cts., two for 25 cts., ﬁve or

more .........................
Figst Aid to Animals, Dr. Schneider each, 10 cts.
pp ...................... ,
What is the Jack London Club? """"" $1.00 par 120

Foreword from "‘Michael Brother ''''''' "' ' «

gripped in the .Teeth of Steel. gfgSfry 13% .. ..

HagatrlleKElcll Animals Humanely, 4 pp. I $1.60 per 100
mals . . . . lice. ion. Eéflét.,. No. 6’ Ani- 50 ..

Please enclose remittance wit

AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOC

About Other Animals—Continued

Humane Education Leaﬂet, No. 7, Farm
Animals ............................ $0.50 per 100

Ways of Kindness ..................... .50 per 100
Why the Toad is so Useful ............. .30 “ “
“Empty Tin Cans,” card ............... Free

Humane Education

The Humane Bulletin, for use in schools,
96 pp. ..................12centseach;tenfor$1.00
Care and Kindness for Our Animal
Friends, 29 pp., paper covers, many
illus. ............. 15 cents each; seven for $1.00
Kindness Picture Book, 32 pp.
15 cents each; seven for $1.00
The Teacher’s Helper in Humane Edu-

cation, 32 pp. .................. each, 10 cts.
Humane Education—for Parents and
Teachers, 20 pp. ................. each, 10 cts.

Picture Lesson Cards, each, 10 cts., set

of eight ......................... 35 cts.
“Be Kind to Animals” Pennants ...... each, 25 cts.
“Be Kind to Animals” Placards ...... each,3 cts.
The Humane Idea, Dr. Francis H.

Rowley ............... cloth, 35 cts.; paper, 15 cts.
Friends and Helpers (selections for

school use), Sarah J. Eddy ....... cloth,96 cts.
Animals as Seen by the Poets, Guy

Richardson, 32 pp. ..... cloth, 35 cts.; paper, 10 cts.
Address to Boston Public Schools ...... $2.00 per 100
Lessons on Kindness to Animals ........ 3.00 “ ‘

The B—K—T—A Club, play,
3 cts. each; ten for 25c.
Fred Changes His Mind, play, 5 cts. each; six for 25 cts.
“And a Little Child Shall Lead Them,”
play ..................... 3 cts. each ; six for 15 cts.
Friends of Fur and Feather, play,
3 cts. each ; ten for 25 cts.
Humane Day in Schools, with class-room
project, 8 pp. ....................... $2.00 per 130
Exercises for Humane Day, 1933 ..... 2.00 “
Humane Education the Vital Need, Dr. ‘
Rowley, short radio address, 3 cts. each; 1.50 ‘
Our Little Brothers and Sisters, sermon
for boys and girls, by Dr. Jefferson,

4 pp. .............................. .50 “ “
Humane Education, What to Teach and u ..
How to Teach It .................... .50 .. ..
Early Lessons in Kindness or Cruelty .50
Outlines of Study in Humane Education, ..
8 pp. ............................... .50 ‘1 ..
A Talk with the Teacher ............... .50 “ ..
The Coming Education ................ .30 ‘
Our Love for Animals, a short radio ..
address ................... 5 cts. each; 2-50 :: u
A Festival of Tender Mercies .......... .50
A Great Prophecy, Dr. Rowley ........ Free

Band of Mercy

“Be Kind to Animals” Buttons, three
Sl’yleS—Band of Mercy, Humane So-
CIety, or S. P. C. A. ..................

Buttons—white star on blue ground with
gilt letters and border, one cent each . 1.00

Badges, gold ﬁnish, large, 10 cts. .. . small,5cts.

“Band Of Mercy” Pennant .............. 35 cts.

Smgs of Happy Life, with Music, 5.

J Edd

$1.00 per 100

(C U

. ...................... 50 cts.
Songs of Hap Lif 56 a es, words
only) ..... p.37. . . . .8 .(. . . ill; .......... $3.00 per 12°
Band of Mercy Membership Card ....... .50 I, ..
How to Form Bands of Mercy .......... .50 .. ..
Does it Pay, story of one Band of Mercy -30

h orders for less than $1
IETY, 180 Longwood Ave., Boston, Mass.

 




 

 

 

 

Page 4

other game-destroying animals are gener-
ally on the increase, though at the same
time there is an increase in the valuable fur-
bearing animals. This is largely laid to the
banning of the old-time widely used steel
trap.” .

This same cry was raised Within a few

months after the law went into effect, even '

before the animals had had an opportunity
to breed. Since then there have been two
breeding seasons. To argue that such vast
increases have actually occurred, con-
sidering that some of the species had been
almost exterminated and that others were
anything than numerous, is not in accord
with common sense or the facts. Prior to
the adoption of the Humane Trapping Law
only a few hundred, or a few thousand, of
these animals were taken annually in
Massachusetts, so depleted had they become
through over-trapping. Natural scientists,
who can speak with authority, see no undue
danger to birds even when the so-called
predatory animals are found in abundance.

These articles make no 'mention of prac-
tical humane traps already available for
all species except the otter, fox and wildcat.
The ﬁrst and last-named are almost extinct
in this state, and foxes are successfully con-
trolled by hunting with dog and gun. Rec-
ently, Vernon Bailey of the U. S. Biological
Survey has invented a humane trap which
promises to fulﬁll this need as regards the
fox and other size’able fur-bearers found
here. Humane traps cost a little more than
the steel trap, but not in the long run as
they save more fur. Even if they are more»
expensive, should that weigh in the balance
against the atrocious cruelty of the steel
trap? Multitudes of so-called “sportsmen”
——75,000 of them in Massachusetts armed
with the most deadly guns ever invented——
would like to wipe out all the so-called pre-
dators, most openly claiming that otherwise
there may be a few less birds to furnish
them “sport.” Do they forget that the wild
life of the state belongs not to them, but to
all the people of the Commonwealth? The
Humane Trapping Act is not detrimental
to the wild life, and it should be upheld by
all who have the interests of true conserva-
tion at heart, to say nothing of its value in
abolishing the diabolical suffering‘inﬂicte-d
by the steel trap.

 

HE Jack London Club, named for i

the late author, who ﬁrst sug— i
gested a way by which much cruelty to
animals can be prevented, is composed
of members who pay no dues but sim-
ply pledge themselves to leave a the-
ater or any place where trained ani-
mals are compelled to perform un-
natural acts. All one has to do to
belong to this club is to agree to
this. It is hoped all members before
purchasing tickets at any theater or
place of amusement where performing
animals are ever exhibited, will ask if
any such features are on the program,
refusmg to purchase tickets if the
l answer is in the affirmative. When
1 leavmg any place because of any ani-
; mal performance, always let the man-
1 agement know why you are leaving or
g01ng out during that part of the per-
formance, or write a letter to the man-
agement after returning to your home.
Send your name for enrollment to
Our Dumb Animals.

 

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Jan. 1983

The Victims of Vanity

CARL SCHURZ LOWDEN

UR coats by the many thousands are
ﬂaunted by the would-be fashionable,
in season and out of season. In luxurious
auto-mobiles, in dance halls, on the streets,
at the theater, at athletic games, in con-
ventions, in shops, in homes—almost wher-
ever you turn—you will see them. They are
mostly coats made of the pelts of many ani-
mals who died for vanity’s sake.
Most fur coats connote cruelty. There
may be some, however, made from furs ob-
tained from a fur farm. Perhaps there the

ago. The single-jaw trap was less frightful
though usually ﬁrm enough to hold its
prey; but the double-jaw trap, invented not
so long ago, is cunningly designed so that
the animal can never pull out the part of

its body gripped between those dual metal

Jaws.

This business of trapping has a deterior-
ating'effect upon one-’s moral ﬁber. Why
provide a child with a pony, a dog, a cat
and other pets and teach him to be kind to
animals if, when he grows up, the subtle

 

INNOCENT VICTIMS OF MY LADY’S VANITY

animals are humanely slaughtered with a
minimum of suffering and cruelty. But the
average fur coat. carries on its sleek sur-
face the suffering of fur-bearing animals
which were caught in relentless traps, tor-
tured through many hours, and probably
froze to death.

How would the trapper like to be caught
in the trap himself? How would he like to
be his own victim? Such things have hap-
pened. Occasionally you read of a man
stepping into a bear trap, held fast, tor-
tured by the device meant for the bear, en-
during agony too intense to be pictured ade-
quately in words, and perhaps rescued when
hope had almost vanished. At other times
the trapped trapper is not rescued; he per-
ishes just as hundreds of thousands of fur-
bearers perish annually.

When a beaver, marten, muskrat or other
furry creature is unlucky enough to be
caught in a trap, his ﬁrst impulse is to
escape. But how? He knows only one
method, and that is by self—mutilation. Im-
agine, if you can, the double agony of the
steel jaws of the trap, plus the gnawing
upon the leg by its owner until it is severed.
The animal hobbles away, possibly gangrene
causing death later; in the meantime his
suffering continues.

Believe it or not, occasionally a trapper
catches an animal with only one good foot
left. He had been caught three times pre-
viously, and each time he sacriﬁced the lower
part of a leg rather than be processed into
a fur coat. Some day you may read of a

, footless animal caught, and that will mean

four escapes with the loss of a foot each
time. The history of the animal kingdom is
sullied with man’s inhumanity.

The fur-bearers had a greater chance of
regaining their freedom up to a few years

suggestion of earning spending money by
trapping is put before him? How can a true
lover of pets proceed to kill other animals
unless he is too adolescent to discriminate
unfailingly between right and wrong? You
cannot pet a dog with one hand and set a
trap for a muskrat with the other without
undergoing a conscious or unconscious loss
of self—respect; for all- animals are brothers
beneath the skin.

The blood of many long—suffering fur-
bearers in the winter season stains the hands
of thousands of trappers who deal in tor-
ture for cash. Its grime lays on the soul of
the manufacturer who sells these torture-
stained coats for cash. It lowers the moral
character of the retailer who stocks his
shop with these relics cf cruelty. It must at
times send shivers up and down the back of
the fur—clad customer who wears the pro-
duct of the barbarous trapping.

A fur coat would be a pretty thing, if
one could forget that cruelty and greed
marked its manufacture and that vanity is
generally the underlying reason for its pro-
duction. Can a person don a fur garment
time after time and never think of its
origin, when a fur coat may mean that from
ﬁve to ﬁfty furry creatures suffered and
died in abject cruelty and misery?

Read Jack London’s “Michael Brother of
Jerry.” The volume will be mailed, post
free, to any address upon receipt of price,
75 cents.

It is fascinating, startling, strong.

It deals with agreat cruelty. It tells how
we may stopit. ~

THE JACK? LONDON CLUB
is built on it. Will you join it? No dues.
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston

 




 

Jan. 1933

Blue lays in the Snow

A lonelier thing I do not know
Than blue jays ﬂying in the snow.
Junco, with your ashen breast,
Nuthatch, with your steely crest,
Little friendly chickadees,

Crying in the cedar trees;

Crow, that never seemed so black
As upon a Winter track;

Did you see them going by,

Like small bits of the blue sky,
Hidden now behind something
Dusky gray like a bird’s wing? . . .

Now my faith is strong again

In dogwood and in cyclamen,

And I believe in iris now,

And flowers on the apple bough,
And under the great drifts of snow
I see the pale arbutus grow,
Although the wind is loud and cold
And all the trees look hard and old.

LOUISE DRISCOLL in “Garden Grace”

Preserving Our Wild Life

FRANK W. HANFORD

HE unusually severe weather experi-
enced west of the Rocky Mountains last
winter, proved very hard on all types of
wild life. Among the chief sufferers were the

herds of deer, which were not only forced '

down from the higher altitudes because of
the excessive snow fall but found their
grazing lands in the lower levels also cov—
ered to such a degree that it was impos-
sible to forage for their daily food.

Near Okanogan, Washington, conditions
were particularly bad. Scores of the beauti-
ful animals were in danger of actual star-
vation. A kind-hearted farmer, however,
seeing their plight came to their rescue and
for a while managed to keep them supplied
with food. But the number increased so fast
that he soon found he was unable to cope
with the situation alone and was forced to
ask help from his neighbors.

They proved more than willing to assist
and a plan was soon worked out where,
through their united efforts, a bountiful
supply of hay was delivered daily to the
suffering animals until the early spring
rains again made natural pasturage avail-
able. It was estimated that between two
hundred and three hundred deer were
saved in this manner—a splendid undertak-
ing and one that other communities could
well emulate when conditions demand it.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Page 5

Wasp Neighbors

WALTER A. DYER

often to suppose that I should eve-r feel

particularly friendly toward them and
their kindred until last summer when a
colony of wasps presented me with an op—
portunity to observe them at close range
from behind the safe retreat of a screen
door. Little by little they built one of the
largest and handsomest paper wasp nests I
have ever seen, hanging it from a low rain
gutter in front of the door, and I doubt if
any far-ranging entomologist eve-r had a
better chance to study them and their hab-
its. Sometimes I think it pays to let nature
come to you rather than to go in search of
her secrets. To be sure, we were unable to
make any use of that door all summer, but
as we have ﬁve others around the house the
inconvenience was not great.

Before telling of this nest and the lives
and habits of its inmates, perhaps I shall be
pardoned for being a bit encyclopedic. It
has long been recognized that ants and bees
are among the most interesting creatures in
the world, with their highly developed sys-
tems of community life, and the wasps are
not far behind them.

There are several species and varieties of
wasps (which include the hornets) with dif-
ferent habits but with certain character-
istics in common. Like the bees, they are
divided into three sexes, male, female, and
neuter. The females, which are few though
not so rigidly limited as the queen bees, are
the mothers and perpetuators of the race.
The males, like the drone bees, have no other
function than fatherhood. They do no work
and have no stings. The neuters, which are
modiﬁed females, are the workers and are
the only ones commonly in evidence.

There are a few kinds, called solitary
wasps, which live in pairs, but most of the
wasps live in communities and their social
order is similar to that of the bees. Unlike-
the hives of bees, however, the wasp colonies
live but one season, having their genesis in
the spring and summer and passing out of
existence with the coming of cold weather,
leaving only the young females to carry the
life of the species over to another season.

The yellow-jacket hornet (Vesta vulgaris)
builds its nest in the ground, as I have rea-
son to know from sad experience. As a rule
this is a safe retreat for them, but I have
known skunks to dig up and destroy the
nests, and I have no doubt that bears and
ant-eaters do the same thing. Most of the

H HAD been stung by yellow-jackets too

 

familiar hanging nests of gray paper are
made by the white-faced hornets (Vesta
maculata.) This nest is made of wood pulp
chewed by the workers and mixed with
saliva, which produces a thin but tough and
nearly waterproof tissue, and the nests are
built up of successive layers of this paper.
The female ﬁrst builds herself a single layer
of eight or ten hexagonal cells not unlike a
honeycomb, attached to the under side of a
branch or fence rail. She lays her eggs in
these and seals them over. Then other hori-
zontal layers are built below, with passages
between, while the paper nest is built up
around them.

It takes only a few days for the larvae to
become pupae and the pupae to become ma-
ture wasps, and these start in immediately
to work on the nest. Two or three broods
are hatched out during the season and a
single colony may eventually number sev-
eral thousand before winter comes to destroy
it. The larvae are fed ﬁrst by the queen
and then by young workers. The food is a
muddy sort of honey mixed with the re-
mains of small insects and is unﬁt for
human consumption. Owing to the forma-
tion of the wasp’s mouth parts, he can
gather nectar only from shallow ﬂowers,
but he can suck the juices from berries and
small fruits. This food is gathered not for
winter storage but for current consumption
by the rapidly increasing young.

All drones die in the fall after fulﬁlling
their functions, and most of the workers
also. The fertilized queen hibernates in
some safe hole or crevice, to emerge in the
spring and start a new colony. My nest is
therefore now quite deserted, and there is
apparently no truth in the traditional notion
that the height of a wasp’s nest above the
ground is an indication of the depth of next
winter’s snow, since it was not constructed
for winter occupancy. Blue wasps, however,
come into the house in considerable num-
bers in the late autumn, in a somewhat
dopey state, and I ﬁnd the attic windows
alive with them when the warm spring sun-
shine stirs them to life, so I fancy their
habits differ somewhat from those of the
white-faced hornet.

Wasps may be credited with one beneﬁ-
cent activity. They destroy vast numbers of
small ﬂies and other insects that are injurl-
ous to fruit, but they also harvest some of
our raspberries and blackberries.

It was my privilege last spring to watch

 

STARVING DEER EATING

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page .71;

     
  

GLORY TO
GOD,
PEACE ON EARTH,
KINDNESS, JUSTICE
AND MERCY 'ro
EVERY LIVING
CREATURE.

  
 
  
 

  
 
 
    

Founded by Geo. T. Angell. Incorporated, 1889
For rates of membership in both of our Societies
see back cover. Checks should be made payable to
Treasurer.
Ofﬁcers of the American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

DR. FRANCIS H. ROVVLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, RO‘WLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds

JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman, Chase Harris Forbes
Corporation

CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President, United Shoe
Machinery Corporation

131ng: STOCKTON, President, First National Bank of
os on

Foreign Corresponding Representatives

George B. Duff ................... Australia

Luis Pareja Cornejo ............ Ecuador

Charles A. Williams .............. France

Leonard T. Hawksley ............. Italy

Mrs. Mary P. E. Nitobe ......... Japan

Mrs. Marie C. E. Houghton ....... Madeira

Dr. A. T. Ishkanian .............. Mexico

Luther Parker .................... Philippine Islands
Joaquin Julia ................... Spain

Rida Himadi

_ ..................... Lebanon and Syria
Mrs. Alice W. Manning ........... Turkey
Humane Press Bureau

Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke, Secretary
180 Longwood Ave., Boston

Field Workers of the Society

James D. Burton, Oakdale, Tennessee

Mrs. Katherine Weathersbee, Atlanta, Georgia

Rev. F. Rivers Barnwell, Fort Worth, Texas

MISS Blanche Finley, Richmond, Virginia

Rev. John W. Lemon, Ark, Virginia

MISS Lucia F. Gilbert, Boston, Massachusetts
rs. Jennie R. Toomim, Chicago, Illinois

Seymour Carroll, Columbia, S. C.

Field Representative

Wm. F. H. VVentzell, M.S., Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

Field Lecturer in Massachusetts
Ella A. Maryott

 

$2,.

UNIQUE FOUNTAIN FOR MA

N AND BEAST, WITH SEAT OF HISTORIC

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Fez American Fondouk

Monthly Report
February, 1933—28 Days

Daily average large animals 67.1

Forage for same $105.07
Daily average dogs 8.2

Forage for same 4.57
Put to sleep 19 4.03
Transportation 6.61
Wages, grooms, etc. 69.14
Inspector’s wages 16.53
Superintendent’s salary 98.43
Assistant’s salary 49.22
Veterinary’s salary 15.75
Motor allowance 9.84
Sundries 11.42

 

$390.61
Entries: 13 horses, 13 mules, 55 donkeys.
Exits: 3 horses, 12 mules, 44 donkeys.
SUPT’S NOTES: Assistant’s and Inspector’s Report
on the 70 Native Fondouks:—
VISITS made during month: 336 Fondouks visited;

3,522 animals seen, 839 animals treated; 50 animals
sent in.

The two following notes from Mr. Brown,
our Superintendent at the Fondouk, will
be of interest to its friends.

Tazi, the new Pacha, is very strict. He
has already put three men into prison for
having ridden on their donkeys, that were
tired and nearly exhausted. He seems to
be very much on our side.

There is an epidemic of lymphangite epi—
zootique in the region of Fez. The Fon—
douk discovered it and we have been asked
by the Service de l’Elevage to help them
ﬁnd out what part of the country the cases
are coming from.

We really now are looked at as being of
great help, and knowing more about this
disease than they do.

We have started again with school chil-
dren coming to the’Fondouk. We had 43
girls on Feb. 8 and shall continue till the
Societe Protectrice des Animaux here takes
over that branch of propaganda.

Friends of the Fondouk will be glad to
read the following from former Governor
Baxter of Maine; dated March 28, 1933:

Dear Dr. Rowleyz—

I think you will be interested to know that
about three weeks ago I was in Fez and
called at the American Fondouk. The su-
perintendent in charge, Mr. Brown, showed
me about and I was much impressed by the
work that is being done there for our ani—
mal friends.

The Fondouk seems to be in good condi-
tion, is clean and wellcared for, and about

   

TIMBERS, ON THE HENLEY—READING ROAD, ENGLAND

Iliay, 1 933

ninety animals were under treatment. It
did me good to see these poor creatures in
comfortable quarters, with plenty of car-
rots to eat and good straw to lie-upon. This
institution is certainly an oasis in a great
desert of cruelty but its inﬂuence‘is grad-
ually being extended and I was much
pleased to leave a contribution with Mr.
Brown. A friend of mine took a picture of
the Fondouk entrance and if it turns out
well you might like to have it for Our
Dumb Annmals in some later issue.

With personal regards, cordially,

PERCIVAL P. BAXTER

Canine Telepathy

CORRESPONDENT in New .Bedford,
Mass, relates this incident, the truth
of which is vouched for by a neighbor.

A wide-awake, ambitious German police
pup, “Brownie,” furnishes material for
many interesting and amusing anecdotes,
most popular among them, possibly because
of a pervading sense of mystery, being the
following: .

Residing some distance away, in quite
another" Section of the city, is a relative
of BroWnie’s family between whom and
Brownie has become established a strong
bond of friendship and whose visits to the
latter’s home are frequent, although ir-
regular. '

There are rare occasions when the dog,
suddenly forsaking his usual haunts, is dis-
covered by his master crouching upon a
stair-landing, his long, sleek body tense
with eager expectancy. Then it is that the
master announces to the family “Cousin
Ed is coming. Brownie is at his post.”
Within ten or ﬁfteen minutes, in a wild,
sprawling leap, Brownie has cleared the
stairs and his vociferous, exultant barking
at the door proclaims Cousin Ed’s arrival.

Investigation revealed the time of the
latter’s leaving his home identical with
Brownie’s retreat to the stair-landing, yet
the family had no previous knowledge of
the intended visit.

An English Roadside Picture

This is what a very dear English friend
writes us: .
“The spirit moves me to send you the en-
closed photograph. It has no intrinsic beau-
ty and I have no idea who the wayfarer is,
but it may be of passing interest to you.
The site is a corner of my land abutting on
to the busy Henley-Reading road. I placed
the seat there some two years ago.. It is
made of oak from old beams in Henley
Church on which the bells used to hang.
They are of the period of Elizabeth, and
were considered unsafe and replaced by
steel girders. They caused me to break out
into poetry (‘2), an event that rarely hap-
pens, and I have had the lines carved on the
top rail:—— '
‘These timbers carried the bells that rang
For funeral or for wedding
And now they carry the folks who tarry
Twixt Henley Church and Reading.’

Last autumn I happily remembered that
a water main was close to the seat, so of
course I had placed there the fountain for
the use of man and beast. As there is nei-
ther seat nor drinking water to be found
for many a mile, good use is made of both.”

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

Published monthly by the Massachusetts Society for the Pr

u U. S,Trade Mark,Registered ‘

CELL m 1868,AND FOR FORTy.

The Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

The American Humane Education Society

The American Band of Mercy

I would not enter on my list of friends,
Though graced with polished manners and ﬁne sense,
Yet wanting sensibility, the man
Who needlessly sets foot upon a worm.
—COWPER

 

evention of Cruelty to Animals

M‘..-‘;s~ 2&1”? 153a- --» 7. V- .4 ~~'-'_ 7, , ,, -- , .

GOD,
PEACE on EARTH,
KINDNESS, JUSTICE
AND MERCY TO‘

EVERY LIVI N a
CREATURE.

, 46 Central Street, Norwood, Massachusetts

Entered as second-class matter June 29 1917 at the PostOfﬁce at Norwood Mass under the Act of M
.. . ’ : , _ , -. arch 3, 1879
Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage prov1ded for in section 1103, Act of October 3, 1917, authorized, July 13, 1919

Boston Ofﬁce, 180 Longwood Avenue,

Vol. 66

We constantly regret that our lack of
space prevents us from using many valu-
able contributions and photographs sent
us by our readers.

It has been quite commonly stated in
this country that the ﬁrst bill ever intro-
duced to a legislative body for the protec-
tion of animals from cruelty was the one
introduced in 1811 by Lord Erskine, Lord
High Chancellor of. England. The real date
of this historic eventwas May 15, 1809.

Dr. May of the Division of Ornithology
reports two Baltimore orioles as apparently
wintering in Worcester, Mass, and that a
scarlet tanager was seen in December at
Windsor, this state. We wonder if either
of these species have ever been seen be-
fore in our state during the winter months.

According to latest reports from abroad,
no experiments upon the teeth of dogs pro-
posed by the International Dental Federa-
tion have as yet been undertaken nor have
any would—be competitors for the prizes
been heard from. It looks as if the protests
of the humane world may have called a halt
to the Federation’s pitiless proposal.

On the authority of Bernard J. Fagan,
New York State parole commissioner, it
costs as much to keep a man in prison as
to keep a boy in college. There are now
approximately 134,000 prisoners in state
penitentiaries and federal prisons. Ten
dollars a week is the average cost. Fami-
lies of six are being cared for by welfare
societies on that amount.

Thousands of wild fowl are being an-
nually tortured to death by being caught
in waters along our shores, deﬁled by sticky
oil discharged from oil-burning vessels.
Legislation must be had compelling all such
ships to be equipped with oil condensers.
This would not only prevent the destruction
of these migratory birds but would save
the waste of oil as well. The most common
duck killed in this way is the eider, a beau-
tiful species of wild life.

April, 1933

The Massachusetts Anti-
Steel Trap Law

IGHT bills were presented to the State

legislature in January, all of which
sought either seriously to modify or repeal
our law won by a referendum vote by a
majority of 327,000. Hearing on these bills
occurred March 8. All sorts of specious
arguments were put forward, sportsmen
and trappers hiding behind the poor farm-
ers, who, it was claimed, were suffering
desperately ﬁnancially from being unable
to use the old outlawed steel trap. Our day
to defend the law comes later in the month,
too late to notify our readers of the date.
We have no fear of our law being repealed.

Twenty-two Million Dollars

This is the amazing amount of money
voted by the Senate of the United States
ostensibly for caring for some 80,000 va-
grant boys at the Citizens Military Training
Camps. Social Service workers protest
against this socially unwise and dangerous
movement toward militarizing the youth of
the nation. Almost any plan to provide for
these boys and give them some sort of em-
ployment would be better than this voted
by the Senate. We wish every reader of
these words would write to his or her repre-
sentative at Washington, opposing the meas-
ure if the bill has not been passed by the
House when this is read. Your Representa-
tive should know what you think of this.

“ Toys of Death”

The Northampton Branch of the Wom-
en’s International League has recently is-
sued a poster of interest to parents and
teachers. The poster entitled “Toys of
Death” portrays realistically the evolution
of the rows of tin soldiers on the living-
room ﬂoor to the rows of dead in “No
Man’s Land.” The price is ﬁfteen cents
plus postage and it can be obtained from
the Women’s International League, 64 Ken-
sington Ave., Northampton, Mass.

Boston, Mass.

No. 4
A Dog of Harvard

UITE as well known in and about the

famous Harvard University section of
Cambridge as many of its professors and
instructors, possibly far better known to
the public than many of them, was the
little brown cocker spaniel “Phantom,” the
dog of President and Mrs. Lowell. This
little dog for years was a visitor to our
Hospital when any physical troubles seemed
to threaten his good health. Quite unlike
many of the visitors to our Hospital, Presi-
dent and Mrs. Lowell often would sit and
wait their turn while certain other people
were very impatient to have most immedi-
ate attention. Little Phantom has at last
succumbed to the inﬁrmitie‘s of old age and
has vanished from sight.

The story is told that President Lowell,
once, greatly to the risk of his own life,
dashed into the street to rescue Phantom
from an on-rushing commercial truck.

Even to such distinguished people as col-
lege presidents there is generally a very
human side which the public does not
always see.

An Anti-Steel Trap Law in
New Hampshire

We have been told that an Anti-Steel
Trap bill, similar to ours in Massachusetts,
has passed by a large majority vote one
branch of the New Hampshire legislature.
And a dog made the determining plea. His
eloquence was irresistible.

Here is the story: A proponent of the
bill stepped down before legislators, then
whistled. Down the aisle came a handsome
dog, hopping along on three legs. His mas-
ter picked him up and set him on a table.
All eyes were ﬁxed upon the silent cripple.
Then came the holding up of‘the cruel trap
which the dog had come dragging home and
which had so mangled his leg that amputa-
tion had become a necessity. Holding the
trap in his hand his master spoke as he
said his dog would have spoken had nature
given him the power of human speech.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

Jan. 1938

Icelandic Ponies
M. LOUISE C. HASTINGS

OR many years I have been interested

in Iceland—misnamed because, com-
paratively speaking, but little ice is to be
found there. Its life, which centers around
its remarkable ponies, is especially attrac-
tive. Iceland has a climate similar to ours
where traveling from place to place is de-
pendent almost wholly upon ponies, al-
though automobiles are growing in number
as roadways are built.

This island, lying in the North Atlantic,
some three hundred miles southeast of
Greenland, with its extreme north just
within the Arctic Circle, is comfortably
warm much of the time because of the
Gulf Stream which ﬂows up the south
coast and northward along the west
coast. This stream does much in counter-
acting the polar currents and in softening
the climate.

In these days, when horses are constantly
being withdrawn from our trafﬁc congested
highways, it is a pleasure to know of these
shaggy little ponies which are so much
needed in their homeland.

Someone has said that the burdens of
Iceland, are borne almost exclusively on
the backs of its ponies. Everybody travels
in the interior on ponies, which are raised
in the country, because that is the best
means of conveyance. For hundreds of
years it has been the only means. Every
man, woman and child of Iceland can ride.
If there is a long distance to travel, extra
ponies are taken along to relieve those
being ridden every hour. This primitive
mode of traveling from farm to farm is in-
teresting, from all accounts, and much to be
desired over an automobile when roads are
merely tracks and the speed of necessity is
not more than from ﬁve to ten miles an
hour.

These Icelandic ponies are strong and
very sure-footed, often going very fast over
the stony ground and seldom stumbling,
even when obliged to pick their way over
the lava rocks and boulders which strew
much of the ground in certain sections, or
when going in single ﬁle along the shelving
sides of rocks hundreds of feet up in the
air. Bridges, like highways, are rarely to
be found, so in crossing deep streams,
which are not easily forded on foot, people
rely on these little steeds who keep their
feet in spite of rolling stones and swift
currents.

Icelanders show great consideration for
their ponies. The animals are always well
fed and well cared for. They live by graz-
ing in summer, and in the winter on small
amounts of hay, supplemented by the heads
of dried codﬁsh.

The chief domestic animals of this coun-
try, besides the ponies, are cattle and sheep.
Grass here is luxuriant in many valleys,
and during the summer months it is mown
for fodder. On the quantity of hay har—
vested depends the number of sheep and
ponies and cattle which each farmer can
keep over the long winter. With the excep-
tion of sheep and horse raising, haymaking
is the only agricultural pursuit. Every
farm has its small ﬁeld, but most of the
hay grows wild and is a kind of marsh
grass found on the boggy moors. When
carts cannot be used the ponies take the
place of hay carts, great bundles being

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

slung over their backs, one on each side.

The small sure-footed ponies are greatly
in demand in other countries, many people
liking the peculiar gait of some of them,
which is half trot and half canter. When
they get to Denmark and other countries
that buy them, they are, of course, taught
not to fear motor cars, but in their native
land they are very much frightened of
them and they rear and plunge and run
like wild creatures. In time this problem
will be solved, but at present Icelandic
ponies are not used to automobile-s, as there
are only about four hundred miles of road-
way over which they may travel with
comfort.

Horse Swapping Court
JAMES STILL

N the second Monday in July Circuit

Court convenes at Hindman, Ken-
tucky. Knott County is hedged in between
Letcher and Breathitt, both known for
their bloody feuds in years past, and is per-
haps the most remote county in eastern
United States. Court opening is the most
memorable day of the year for the moun-
tain people». At daybreak they fasten their
saddle-bags on their mules and horses and
set out on the rocky trail toward the county
seat.

Knott County has only twelve miles of
graded road so the creek beds of Trouble-
some, Quicksand, Possum Trot, Deer Lick
and Laurel Fork serve as main thorough-
fares. These people are- hardly aware of
the mechanical age that has gripped Ameri-
ca. Their animals are therefore valuable
and necessary.

By eight o’clock Hindman’s single street
is crowded. Court opens at nine but the
dealings of justice are of minor importance
on this day. The men line their horses
and mules along the dry bed of Trouble-
some Creek which courses through the
town, and last minute currying and brush-
ing is quickly done. All along the line
there is much noise and an air of expectancy
prevails.

Suddenly there is a shout. A clatter of
hoofs echoes along the narrow lane between
the animals, and a man half standing in the
stirrups rides swiftly by, calling lustily as
he passes,

“Swap my mule, even ’er with boot.”

Every eye is turned critically toward his
mount. If anyone is interested he springs
into his saddle and dashes after him. At
the end of the line they draw up and begin
to trade. Immediately another man dashes
by shouting. The trading continues in this
manner throughout the day.

In spite of their proximity to the Blue
Grass region famed for ﬁne horses, these
animals owned by the mountaineers are
rarely of blooded stock. Their value is
none the less real however, and it is a
great rarity that an animal is ever mis-
treated.

The homing instinct is a special power
without which animals cannot get along,
this being especially apparent in the solitary
wasp who ﬁnds her way to the nest however
far she ﬂies, and the fur seals who go into
warmer waters early in the autumn only
to return to summer quarters where they
breed, traveling through pathless seas.

Page '7'

Horse of Gustavus Adolphus

N the Swedish Artillery Museum in

Stockholm you can see a stuffed bay
horse with darker mane and tail. This ﬁne
animal carried Gustavus Adolphus through
many battles and at last followed the hearse
of his master, when the gates of the
Riddarholm Church opened to receive the
dust of the great king, the Defender of the
Protestants.

 

The famous charger bore him in the
battleﬁeld of Breitenfeld (1631) and the
Pyrrhic victory of the Swedish Army at
Lutzen on the sixth of November, 1632..
The saddle was Queen Maria Eleonora’s
last New Year’s Gift to her husband.

We do not know the name of the horse,
nor where he came from; but we under-
stand that he was a good and faithful com—
panion—otherwise the King had not used
him so long in the Thirty Years’ War, where
it was of importance for the general to
have a strong, steady and ﬁne horse.

On the morning of the sixth of November
however, the horse was restless and would
not start. After the King’s death this was.
considered an ominous circumstance.

At the charge the King was hit by a ball
and fell from the saddle. The horse also
was wounded and ran oﬁ". The empty saddle
warned the soldiers that their leader was
fallen, inﬂaming them to revenge.

The ﬁne charger appeals to all that see
him, reminding us of the gratitude we owe,
the thousands of horses that have been
man’s useful servants in wars and in peace-
ful work. At the same time he is a glorious
example of a faithfulness and endurance
that are rare even among men. S

K. .

Flasco
CLARENCE EDWIN FLYNN

The horses in the barnyard
Went modern. So, to vent

Their graces, powers, and talents,
They held a parliament.

It turned out quite a failure.
It didn’t last a day.

The vote on every question
Was uniformly “Neigh.”

Cheerfulness is always good and can
never be excessive. SPINOZA

 

 




 

 

Feb. 1933

Being very fond of dogs, I keep none my-
self, feeling that it is better to have no
special pet and try to be kind to all of them.

While in New York one day, walking
along on a cross street, I saw a. man who
was handling a large, rangy, handsome pair
of black draft horses. It was very slippery;
evidently it had become so after he started
for the day’s work. The horses seemed to be
full of fear that they were going down and
the driver was turning and backing his
truck up to the warehouse door. He con-
ducted himself admirably. He did not even
speak harshly or loud to the. horses, but
quietly reined them and talked low, using
no whip or attempt to frighten them. He
brought his truck just where it belonged
after quite a little space of time, letting

the team rest between times. I watched him '

all through it and immediately congratu-
lated him on his conduct with his team. He
seemed pleased to have it recognized.

I could recite many pleasant experiences
with animals, but enough for this time.

BANKER

Little Woodland God

Reprinted by request

I think that surely there’s a god
For little hunted things;

A god whose eyes watch tenderly
The droop of dying win-gs.

A little woodland god, who sits
Beneath a forest tree,

With baby. rabbits in his arms,
And squirrels on his knee.

And when a hunter calmly shoots
A deer with dreaming eyes,

I think that little god is there
To love it, when it dies.

But all the hungry orphan things
Who weakly call and call—

For mothers who never come,
He loves the best of all.

He tells the breeze to softly blow,
He tells the leaves to fall;

He covers little, frightened things
When they have ceased to call.

I think his pensive, pan-like face
Is often wet with tears;

And that his little back is bent
From all the weary year's.

Prize poem by JULIA VAN DER VEER in
Troubadour.

Unconscious Humor

One day, when Mark Twain was very
busy writing in his study, his little daughter
asked where daddy was, and was told she
must be quiet and not disturb daddy, be-
cause he was up-stairs writing an anecdote.

Not long after, the door-bell rang and
the little girl ran to answer it. The caller
asked if Mr. Clemens was in, to which the
little miss proudly replied, “Yes, sir, he’s
in, but you can’t see him, ’cause he’s up-
stairs riding a nanny goat.”

Join the Jack London Club—a great
movement whose goal is the prevention of
cruelty to performing animals.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

Page 27

 

CLARENCE HAWKES,

THE BLIND POET

A N D NATURALIST

OF HADLEY, MASS.,

G R E A T ADMIRER

AND L O V E R OF
DOGS

“A dog gives every-
thing and asks nothing
in return,” says Mr.
Hawkes. “There are no
bounds to his love,
ﬁdelity and trust. My
only anxiety is to be
worthy of my dog.”

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Just Like a Soldier

ULA KING FAIRFIELD

“Lives there a man with soul so dead,
Who never to himself hath said,
‘This is my dog—my own pet dog?’ ”

loyalty of a dog? Or fail to admire un-

l‘

6 :AN anyone question the devotion and

selﬁsh heroism as displayed by our
dumb friends”? Perhaps someone, like my-
self, has been guilty of scofﬁng at the very
idea of canine intelligence and common-
sense. According to Mark Twain, we scof-
fers are the “dumb friends”—not the- dogs.
But since it was proved to me that “Duke,”
our big German police dog, possessed not
only acute mental vision but an almost un-
canny discernment, I have not discredited
any report of a dog’s judgment.

Duke was a gift to our two—year-old
Sonny, and came to us with a pedigree of
German kennel nobility and a record of
ancestral blue ribbons. It was no time un-
til the handsome puppy demonstrated his
breeding for, soon, he was meeting all pas-
sers-by at the corner of the square, and with
critical sniffs and appraising eye, was es-
corting them past the house and well on
their way.

As Duke grew larger and older, he grew
more and more uneasy at the appearance
of strangers, and displayed a decided anti-
pathy to dark-skinned foreigners, always
baring his teeth and growling irritably when
they came near. Realizing that we must
have more yard for him to run in, we moved
into a larger place nearby, and I was glad
for his sake, and for another reason, too.
I had long wished for more room, and more
wall space for several large pictures which
had been left to me by my English grand—
father.

One of these pictures was an oil por-
trait of a pirate—a native of Morocco. This
brigand Moor possessed the “evil eye,” and
was very striking. Dark-skinned, with his
head bound in a blood-red cloth, turban style.
A long drooping mustache almost covered
his chin, and wicked-looking brass rings
hung from the dark ears, accentuating the
high cheek bones and general evil expres-
sion. .

We had never been able to ﬁnd a proper
light for this rather remarkable painting,
and, in the new home, we found it just as
difﬁcult. After trying a number of places,
we found one spot—in the up-stairs hall
directly opposite Sonny’s bedroom.

I had always boasted that even if Sonny
was an “only child,” his afternoon naps had
never been a problem; that he took this nap
for granted, and always slept soundly till
I came to awaken him. Now, with every-
thing else to my liking, an unexpected dif—
ﬁculty arose; Sonny could not be coaxed
nor bribed to go to sleep in his new room
unless Duke was in the room with the hall .
door tightly closed, and Duke seemed to be
in the conspiracy.

AlWays, when nap time came, Duke would
march ahead of us in soldierly fashion, and
soon I began to wonder why he growled so
ﬁercely when we reached the head of the
stairs, came! closer to Sonny, and could not

be persuaded nor forced to leave the boy

for one second.

One day, it was necessary to send Duke
to the veterinary doctor for treatment of a
slight infection, and he was to remain there
for several days. That afternoon, I put Son—
ny to bed, tucked him in, and, kissing him,
told him I would leave the bedroom door
Open. A moment later, I heard a scream.
Sharp, frightened cries, took me to him in
a hurry. I found him with his head buried
under the covers, crying terribly, and I

could not comfort him.

At the same instant, I heard a loud bark-
ing and scratching, the front door ﬂew open,
and Duke came bounding up the stairs!
How he ever broke away from the doctor’s
ofﬁce we never knew! But there he was,
and in a frenzy of anxiety over the safety
of his little chum. Suddenly I understood!
For like the soldier that he was, Duke took
his stand in front of Sonny, and with his
neck bristling as only a police dog’s neck
can bristle, he began to growl savagely at
the picture of the dark-skinned pirate, and
with bared teeth and hatred in his eyes,
threatened to tear the evil-looking buccaneer
to pieces.

“Well, my ﬁne fellow, if that’s the way
you feel about it, we’ll put that brigand 1n
chains and send him to an art gallery!” I
laughed, as with Duke close at my heels, I
took the picture down. We still own the
picture, but we hung it where Duke would
never have to look at it again. Many times,
as I have watched Duke’s golden eyes upon
me, I thought, “Do you know more about me
than I know myself? Did you see some-
thing in that picture which escaped the rest
of us?”

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Zlfay, 1933

To an Old Dray Horse

MARION DOYLE

I see you standing in the wind and rain,
Your weary form of spirit quite bereft;
Your coat unkempt; your thick wind-tangled

mane
The only trace of former beauty left;
Above your listless head the “L” clangs by,
And shrieking sirens beat against the
drum
Of buildings, stretched across with vellum
sky,
Until your outraged senses must be numb.

So quietly you stand—you must be shod
With patience, as you wait the raucous
cry
Of harassing humanity, whose rod
Arouses you to toil, and I descry
In each ﬁne line a tired dignity
And in your eyes a dream of Araby.

An Arab on Our Shores

CARLETON A. SCHEINERT

’ HEODORE ROOSEVELT told us that

V “the best thing for the inside of a
man is the outside of a horse.” A truth
we were well aware of when horses were
our usual method of transportation. But
with the growing popularity of the auto-
mobile this friend of man, second only to
the dog, was forgotten, neglected. The
breeding of ﬁne horses was becoming a
thing of the past.

But the novelty of motoring, of speed-
ing along hard-surfaced highways, wore
off. Thoughts of the faithful horse came
again to mind—and with them the realiza-
tion that the propagation" and breeding of
ﬁne horses had suffered to such an extent
that, unless attention was given to this,
it would not be long before a good horse
would be a rarity!

In 1925 W. K. Kellogg, a lover of horses,
purchased a ranch 800 acres in extent,
near Pomona, California, and started a herd
of ﬁne horses. Only pure—bred Arabian
stock from Europe, from the deserts of
Arabia, and those already in America were
chosen as the nucleus.

May 17, 1932, this ranch where ﬁne
horses were bred, was dedicated to the
people, becoming a part of the University
of California. Its value is placed at $2,—
500,000 today.

The ranch is a replicayof the old—time
hacienda, a reminder of the homes of early
California and the Dons, when ﬁne horses
were the prized possessions of their owners.
The stock is Arabian because of its ﬁne
qualiﬁcations. The Arabian horse is known
for its strength and beauty of form, its
high order of intelligence, and its great
stamina. Even a horse with but a little
Arabian blood is considered superior.

The propagation of ﬁne horses, the study
and improvement of horse breeding, under
the guidance of the University of Califor-
nia, is in the care of experts, the expenses
of the work being covered by an endow-
ment made by Mr. Kellogg.

The stables are of stucco, roofed with
red Spanish tile, and look more like a large
residence than a “stable.” Part of the 800
acres is given over to beautiful gardens,
through which 5,000 and more people stroll

OUR DUMB

 

 

Intae’r-nionl’
“PATCHES,” FAVORITE MOUNT OF
MRS. FRANKLIN D. ROOSEVELT

They are often seen on the Rock Creek
bridle paths near Washington.

 

 

each week—visitors to the ranch who have
come to see the intelligent horses. The
horses are exhibited in the “patio” or in-
closed garden of their stables, into which
they enter through high curving arches in
the walls. They are the delight of hundreds
of children visitors, many of whom are
making their ﬁrst acquaintance with a horse
outside of picture books. They learn to
admire and love them as they watch “Ros—
sika,” for example, play “hobby-horse,”
wheel a baby—carriage, and entertain in
many other ways. Rossika and the other
horses enjoy it, too! And the children—
and their parents—leave the ranch strong
champions of the horse!

Each year new bridle paths are being
built, more people turn back to the horse
with enthusiasm. “A man and his horse”
is again becoming a usual saying, dug out
from the romantic past before the auto-
mobile threatened. Each will now have its
rightful place—the machine the drudge,
the horse man’s friend and companion of
his leisure, adding to his happiness and
health.

A Word for the Bat

C. M. BLOOM

N my childhood days many terrifying
[l tales were told about the bat. Even my
joy in the out-of-doors on a moonlight night
was marred by the fear that one of these
nocturnal creatures might appear. Just
what it would do to me, I did not know. It
might lodge in my hair or drop vermin on
me. It might even suck my life blood before
I could be rescued from its deadly clutch.

Even the grown-ups were dominated by
this same senseless fear. From out of the
past come memories of a twilight in beauti-
ful Virginia, when I witnessed a most un-
equal struggle. On the one side were two
grown men with a pole and a hoe. On the
other side, with his back against a wall,
was a bat. All the small creature could do
was to open his mouth and hiss at his assail-
ants, while trying to dodge their blows.
The battle was soon over with the inevi-
table result.

ANIMALS

Page 75

It is not surprising that there'is a preju-
dice against these ﬂying mammals, whom
the Germans very aptly call a “ﬂitter
mouse.” They are not “good to look at.”
With the passing of time, however, preju-
dice is being overcome to a great extent.

Dr. Joseph Grinnell has stated in a bulle-
tin issued by the California Fish and Game
Commission, that the bat is a “desirable
citizen.” Why? Because he is the farmer’s
friend. The insect pests must be kept down.
The birds work bravely at this task during
the day. But with the coming of night,
ﬁrst one little bird and then another says,
“Well, my day’s work is done,” and straight-
way he tucks his head under his wing, and
ﬂoats off into the land of dreams. Then it is
that these blind creatures, who see with
their ears, ﬂy into the breach and eat their
ﬁll of insect pests.

The Horse’s Pulling Power

L. E. EUBANKS

’ ANY people who use horses seem to

know very little about the animals’
anatomical structure and muscular limita-
tions. I have personally seen drivers whip
teams for failure to pull successfully, when
the fact was that the load was ﬁfty per
cent heavier than any two horses could pull.

The average person overestimates a
horse’s strength, assuming that weight and
the greater traction of four feet on the
ground (as compared to a man’s two feet)
enable the horse to “pull anything.” The
weight is a great aid, but having four legs
does not add to the animal’s pulling power
———not to the degree commonly supposed.
Practically all the pulling is done with the
hind quarters; the fore legs do little more
than balance the horse while the hind legs
do the work. The center of weight in a
horse is immediately behind the shoulders.

Many mistaken beliefs exist regarding
a horse’s strength. Some men can outwalk
a horse, in an endurance contest; often a
horse suffers more from exposure than
a man does under the same conditions, some-
times feeling cold very keenly; and there
is not nearly as much superiority in the
horse’s pulling power (over man’s) as you
may have believed.

Horses are not all of the same propor-
tions. A man who secured a team, each mem-
ber of which weighed approximately 1,200
pounds, thought that he had pullers of equal
strength. But it was not long until he dis-
covered that the two animals carried their
weight somewhat differently, and the one
with the lighter hind quarters could not
pull as much as his mate. Not weight alone,
but distribution of the weight, and length
of legs, have to be considered before we
can judge accurately as to what should be
expected of the pulling horse. .

And, without going into details here, I
would remind all who work with draft ani-
mals that an incline in the road does not
have to be a hill to have a great effect. In-
vestigation into the scientiﬁc phase will
show you that the very slightest up—grade
makes a material difference in your team’s
power to pull the load.

Also, know that the collar ﬁts the horse,
and that there is no shoulder sore for it to
irritate, and that the animal is properly
shod before you expect him to do his best—
and then do not expect too much.

 

 

 




 

 

Jan.

 

Founded by Geo. T. Angell. Incorporated March, 1868

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds

JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman, Chase Harris Forbes
Corporation

CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President, United Shoe
Machinery Corporation

PHILIP STOCKTON, President, First National Bank of
Boston

Prosecuting Ofﬁcers in Boston
Telephone (Complaints, Ambulances) Regent 6100

L. WILLARD WALKER, Chief Ofﬁcer

HARRY L. ALLEN HERMAN N. DEAN
HARVEY R. FULLER FRED T. VICKERS

WALTER B. POPE HOWARD WILLAND
DAVID A. BOLTON

County Prosecuting Ofﬁcers

HARVEY R. FULLER, Boston,

Middlesex, Norfolk and Plymouth
CHARLES F. CLARK, Lynn, ‘ Eastern Essex
WILLIAM W. HASWELL, Methuen, Western Essex
THEODORE W. PEARSON, Springﬁeld,

Hampden, Hampshire and Franklin

ROBERT L. DYSON, Worcester, Worcester
WINFIELD E. DUNHAM, Attleboro, Bristol
HAROLD G. ANDREWS, Hyannis,

Barnstable, Dukes and Nantucket
EDWIN D. MOODY, Pittsﬁeld, Berkshire

Rest Farm for Horses and Small Animal Shelter,
Methuen
W. W. HASWELL, Superintendent

Women’s Auxiliary of the Mass. S. P. C. A., 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston—MRS. EDITH WASHBURN
CLARKE, Pres.; MRS. ARTHUR W. HURLBURT, First
Vice-Pres.; MRS. WM. J. MCDONALD, Second Vice-
Pres.; MRS. A. J. FURBUSH, Treas.; MISS HELEN W.
POTTER, Rec. Sec.; MRS. JOHN A. DYKEMAN, Cor.
Sec.; MRS. A. P. FISHER, Chair. Work Committee.

MONTHLY REPORT OF OFFICERS

Miles traveled by humane Officers. 12,370
Cases investigated .............. 621
Animals examined .............. 4,301

Number of prosecutions .......... 4

Number of convictions .......... 3
Horses taken from work ......... 37
Horses humanely put to sleep . . . . 107
Small animals humanely put to
sleep ........................ 1,210
Stock-yards and Abattoirs
Animals inspected .............. 40,917

Cattle, swine and sheep humanely
put to sleep .................. 33

The Massachusetts Society for the Pre-
vention of Cruelty to Animals has been re-
membered in the wills of Alice Tilton Dam-
rell of Boston, Myra R. Fearl of Orange,
and Frank H. Beebe of Boston.

December 13, 1932.

A teacher was giving his class a lecture
on charity. “Willie,” he said, “if I saw a boy
beating a donkey, and stopped him from
doing so, what virtue should I be showing?”
Willie answered after a few moments of
thinking: “Brotherly love.”

GEORGE KISHI

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

Angell Memorial Animal Hospital
and
Dispensary for Animals

Telephone, Regent 6100

Veterinarians

H. F. DAILEY, V.M.D., Chief

R. H. SCHNEIDER, V.M.D., Asst. Chief
E. F. SCHROEDER, D.V.M.

W. M. EVANS, D.V.S.

G

C.

184 Longwood Avenue

B. SCHNELLE, V.M.D.
G. HALL, D.V.M.
HARRY L. ALLEN, Superintendent

Springﬁeld Branch

53-57 Bliss Street, Springﬁeld, Mass.

THEODORE W. PEARSON, General Manager
A. R. EVANS, V.M.D., Veterinarian

 

 

 

 

HOSPITAL REPORT FOR NOVEMBER
Including Springﬁeld Branch

Hospital Dispensary
Cases entered 695 Cases 2,452
Dogs 502 Dogs 1,977
Cats 176 Cats 431
Horses 7 Birds 32
Birds 7 Horses 3
Rabbits 2 Rabbits 3
Goat 1 Monkeys 3

Rat 1
Guinea Pig 1
Operations 1,092 Sheep 1

Hospital cases since opening Mar.

_1, 1915 ....................... 107,202
Dispensary Cases ................ 235,782
Total ......................... 342,984

MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A. IN THE
COURTS

Summary of Prosecutions in November

For authorizing and permitting a horse
to be subjected to unnecessary cruelty and
suffering by working him when afflicted with
lameness, defendant was convicted in two
counts and was ﬁned $10 on each.

For working a horse suffering with har-
ness galls, offender was ﬁned $10. He ap-
pealed and ﬁne was sustained in Superior
Court.

A defendant sold a horse unﬁt for labor,
getting $10 and another horse in the trade.
He was found guilty and case was placed
on ﬁle. He was ordered by the court to re-
turn horse and money and his own horse
was ordered destroyed.

The Dentists and the Dogs

TO meet the offer of a $1,000 prize and a
gold medal made by the International Den-
tal Federation for experiments on dogs,
which can only cause long and intense suf-
fering for the dogs, the International Bur-
eau for the Protection Of Animals, 4 Cour
St. Pierre, Geneva, offers three prizes, one
of £300, one of £50, and one of £25 for the
best essays by qualiﬁed dentists on the sub-
ject of the uselessness and cruelty of these
experiments and the best means Of prevent-
ing dental decay in man. Protests from the
whole humane world could not stop this
Dental Federation from going ahead with
their wretched scheme. If they would try
the experiments on themselves, we should
not protest.

Remember the Massachusetts S. P. C. A.
in your will.

Page 9
“Billy,” the Pekingese

HIS is “Billy,”
T a little Pek-
ingese, whose death
last month just as
he was beginning
his fourteenth year
left a bitter sense
of loss in the home
where he had been
so loved. We speak
of him because he
was among the
very ﬁrst of the
patients at on r
A n g e l 1 Memorial
Hospital, and from time to time while he
lived was brought to us whenever his health
seemed to demand it. Once he came for
treatment, the victim of a big dog’s attack
which cost him the loss of an eye. He was
a star patient. It isn’t by any means the
size of the dog that gets him in through the
door of your heart. A great bundle of
loyalty and affection is Often wrapped up in
a very small dog.

 

For the Horses’ Christmas

President Rowley sent out the following
letter in connection with this event:

December 1, 1932

We know well that in times like these
there are many who will say “Nothing for
animals.” We can understand this feeling
and are asking only for a little for our
annual Horses’ Christmas.

Let no hungry child go unfed, no suffer-
ing neighbor uncared for. But if you would
like to send even the smallest contribution
for the Horses’ Christmas and for a cup of
coffee and a sandwich for the driver, we
shall greatly appreciate it. Apples and
carrots will be as good as money.

Two large trucks, decorated with Christ-
mas trees and bearing apples, carrots, and
oats, and drawn by some of Boston’s ﬁnest
horses, will leave the Angell Memorial Ani-
mal Hospital Saturday morning, December
24, at 9 o’clock to Visit those centers of the
city where the largest number of horses can
be reached.

For thousands of those who will know of
this there will be a lesson of kindness to all
animal life—and what does the world need
more than kindness?

With best wishes for your own Christ-
mas, I am

Faithfully yours,

FRANCIS H. ROWLEY
President

There are certainly some people who can
appreciate the words of F. H. Bradley in
“Appearance and Reality” when he says,
“There are those who would not sit down
with the angels till they had recovered their
dogs.”

Smile, Please

Lamb, bull-frog and polecat went to cir-
cus. Admission was $1 each. How many
had the price? Ans—The lamb had four
quarters; the frog had a greenback; but
the polecat had only a scent.

—Anirnald0m

 




 

 

Page 6

the process of nest building from the very
beginning. A loud buzzing called my atten-
tion to the initial activities of a single fe-
male who was constructing her ﬁrst layer
of cells on the under side of the upper door
casing. These cells were made of hardened
mud rather than of paper. When I put up
the screen door she was perforce excluded,
but she was not discouraged and resumed
operations on the rain gutter.

Before long there was a cone-like struc-
ture of paper, perhaps an inch long, enclos-
ing the egg cells, and this grew and grew,
retaining its conical shape, until it was some
fourteen inches long. At all stages an aper-
ture was kept open at the bottom.

My observation leads me to believe that
the workers were divided into two squads,
builders and feeders. The feeders kept ﬂy-
ing in and out all summer, just as bees do,
seeking and bringing home food for the
young. The builders, a less numerous group,
continued the work of paper making, add-
ing layer upon layer to the outside of the
lengthening cone. It was fascinating to
watch them crawling along the edge of one
of the paper leaves depositing a moist
thread of new material.

Still another committee was delegated to
perform a function which I have not seen
mentioned in any treatise on wasps. I knew
that bees were accustomed to ventilate their
hives by clinging to the doorways and fan—
ning rapidly with their wings, but I had
never heard of wasps doing the same thing.
I saw them many times, stationed close to
the entrance and vibrating their wings with
such rapidity that they were virtually invis-
ible. A low hum was produced by the mo-
tion. Sometimes there were two farmers
and sometimes three, depending on the heat
and humidity, and on the very hottest after-
noon of summer there were ﬁve. On cool
days there were none.

I failed to make a note of the day when
wasps were seen no more crawling in and
out of their nest, but I think it was about
the middle of October. It is silent and de-
serted now, but a complete and beautiful
thing. How careless Nature is of her won-
ders! It is difficult to believe that such a
marvelous and delicate yet thoroughly efﬁci-
ent structure should have been created for
one brief summer. I fear the winter storms
and snow slides from the roof will destroy
it, but if it is still there in the spring I
shall watch eagerly to see if some lonely
and homesick wasp may not come back to
the old home, seeking wistfully for his de-
parted brothers and sisters.

The whole universe is sustained by the
breath from the mouth of the school chil-
dren, says the Talmud.

Deer show age much the same as human
beings, old animals becoming distinctly gray
and grizzled about the head and neck and
the coat lacking the lustre of those in the
prime of life. ,

In state-owned land in Indiana, deer, buf-
falo, and elk, animals which once roamed
the prairies in countless numbers, are to be
re-established, the land being particularly
adapted to keeping the animals because of
the lumbered area, the pastures on the

great slopes, and the abundance of other
natural foods.

Jan. 1933

 

 

New X-Ray Apparatus at Springfield Branch

' HE Animal Hospital and Shelter at
Springﬁeld, Mass., which is maintained
by the Massachusetts S. P. C. A., has re-
cently installed the new General Electric
X-Ray apparatus shown above. It was
acquired to meet the demands for scientiﬁc
animal surgery in that ﬁeld of increasing
activity, and represents the latest and best
in portable X-Ray equipment.

Some of its features are as follows: It is
mechanically and electrically shock proof,
making it absolutely safe both for patient
and operator; it is operated with accurate
mechanical timer and registers photographs
in small fractions of a second; through
noiseless and invisible operation it spares
the animal patient from being frightened;
it is also the safest apparatus available
against accumulative effects ofﬁstray rays
upon the operator, on account of unparalled
shielding.

This new equipment has a ﬁuoroscope
attachment for quick diagnosis and the
studying of functions of the internal
organs. The ﬂuoroscope is operable in day-
light as well as in the conventional dark-
room and is, therefore, of special value dur-
ing the actual surgery; the surgeon can
observe foreign bodies as he removes them
from the interior parts 'and as he adjusts
fractured bones. Photographic X-Ray and
ﬂuoroscopic examinations can be made with
the animal either in the natural standing,
or any recumbent position.

Dr. A. R. Evans, veterinarian in charge
at the Springﬁeld Branch, is testing the
new apparatus as he makes an X-Ray photo—
graph of a dog afflicted with stone in the
bladder.

This valuable addition to the Hospital
was acquired through the efforts of Mrs.

Dwight Ellis and the generosity of other
kind and interested friends of the institu-
tion. Mr. Theodore W. Pearson, general
manager, states that the new X-Ray equip-
ment will be available to all registered vet-
erinarians who desire to make use of it,
whether they are practising in this or ad-
joining states.

So many cases requiring the use of the
X-Ray are constantly being brought to the
Angell Hospital in Boston that similar
X-Ray installation is about to be made the-re
to replace that which has been in use for
the past dozen years.

To New Contributors

A pleasing note has been received by the
editor of this periodical from a contributor
who writes: .

“It might interest you to know that you
were my ﬁrst publisher. Since (title of a
poem) appeared in your September num-
ber, however, I have won two prizes and
had all sorts of good luck.”

We heartily congratulate this writer on
her success. We are glad indeed if Our
Dumb Animals is opening the way to future
literary careers for its contributors who
may be novices at the game. Sometimes
manuscripts come in accompanied'b'y a long
list of periodicals to which the writer has
contributed but such formidable arrays
have the effect of prejudicing' us against,
rather than in favor of, the writer’s offer-
ing. We intend that every manuscript re-
ce-ived shall be judged solely upOn its merit
and availability at the time, regardless of ,
whether the author has ever seen a line in
print or not.

 




. va__ ., A _i

 

 

 

 

 

Page 52

Little Brown Otter

JEAN MACKAY

Will you never come back to the loch on the
' hill,
Little brown otter, little brown otter?
To hunt my salmon, and waste your kill.
I confess I set a trap for you,
One ﬁne day when the sky was blue;
It had sharp teeth, and its spring was true.

Will you never come back to your mountain
pooh
Little brown otter, little brown otter?
To dip and swim in the water cool.
I know I lost my trap one day;
How it vanished I cannot say,
But maybe the current took it away.

A loathy pool of blood I found,

Little brown otter, little brown otter .
And a long red trail on the mossy ground.
How could I follow that trail so wet!
Poor little thief that spoiled my net,

I am not proud of the trap I set.

What Animal Trainers Say

“The uneducated and unthinking public
may derive pleasure and excitement from
performances with wild beasts in cages.
But they give no pleasure to the man who
understands the true inwardness of the
performance. In no sense can such per-
formances be regarded as elevating to the
public, and they are likely to lead children
to practice cruelty on animals.”

“The real difﬁculty in the treatment of
captive carnivores begins when one at-
tempts to train them to perform; for here
one is endeavoring to make the animals
do what is contrary to all their natural
instincts.”

“The trainer’s task is beset with diﬂﬁ-
culty for he is demanding from his pupils
something which is altogether foreign to
their nature. It is not natural for a lion

roaming the primeval forests of Africa to
ride like a man on the back of a horse, or
for a tiger prowling in the jungle to amuse
Itself by jumping through a hoop.”

’ Discountenance Cruelty!

Join the Jack London Club!

OUR DUMB ANIIMALS

 

Apr. 1933

A Visit to the Zoo

WINIFRED HEATH

Zoo and ever since I have been troub-

led for those caged creatures. Possibly
it was because their meal time approached
that they all seemed so distraught and un-
happy, but whatever the reason was I felt
a sudden swift painful sympathy WIth those
restless, frantic beasts. .

I stopped before the cage of a magniﬁ-
cent African lion with his tawny mate.
Both animals were pacing to and fro. Sud-
denly the magniﬁcent-maned male leaped
on to a rocky promontory and turned his
steady gaze upon me. I looked back at
him, wondering if he guessed that I exper-
ienced some slight measure of the misery
which consumed him. His steady, ques-
tioning gaze made me nervous and
ashamed. I had a feeling that he hated all
the two—legged thoughtless creatures who
came to stare at him‘and make silly re-
marks, not realizing in the least the agony
of a caged animal. Think of it—a lion born
to the freedom of the jungle, the wide-
rolling plains, the mountains and hills, liv—
ing out the rest of his life within four
walls!

Finally I tore myself away from that
hypnotic, soul-compelling, leonine gaze and
went on to the pool where the seals were
making all manner of strange, pathetic
sounds. One little chap in particular was
uttering the most heart-rending cries, and
a woman standing near me remarked in
a cheerful voice:

“I see they have raised the fence around
the pond. The other day a woman threw
a stone in to wake them up and she hit
one in the eye and blinded him. I guess
they had to kill him. Oh, of course, she
did not mean to. It was just an accident.”

Fearing that if I said what I thought I
might get myself arrested I moved on, af-
ter remarking that carelessness was one of
the world’s worst and most selﬁsh vices.
The lady looked at me as if she thought I
was taking the matter too seriously.

Having no way of comforting the little
fellow who was no doubt lamenting his
lost comrade, I moved on to the cage of

g FEW days ago I paid a visit to our

 

WITH, CONSUMING MISERY THEY FACE THE HUMAN GAZE

two splendid Bengal tigers. They were
in a state of acute nervousness. Every now
and then the male snapped at the female
who kept up a series of terriﬁc yawns. It
was easy to see that they were unutter-
ably bored and seething with wrath at their
utter helplessness. Up and down went the
male, across and back, lashing the rails
of his cage, uttering mufﬂed, desperate,
heart-rending roars. I felt that both ani-
mals had reached the end of their en-
durance, loathing those four sickly yellow
walls, bare of any kind of vegetation. How
stiﬂed, and hopeless they must feel in that
little two by four smelly space—they who
had been used to miles of open country,
leagues of cool forest land.

The raccoons, pretty, playful fellows,
were curled up in corners, or playing with
each other, and seemed fairly content—-
all except one little chap perched high in
the cage who looked down at the other in-
mates with tired, dejected eyes.

In a cage near by, all by himself, was a
lemur, pacing up and down the sides of
his cage, making desperate efforts to get
out. No doubt he had been doing that ever
since they stuck him there all alone with
no place for him to go, and nothing to do.

The polar bears lay ﬂat out on the ﬂoor
of their cage, like two huge white rugs,
paying no attention to each other or any-
thing else. Imagine the disgust of a polar
bear in the warm climate of Southern Cali-
fornia, with never a sight of snow or ice,
or any cool green icy waters to play and
sport in. Nothing but a muddy, warm pool,
eternal sunshine, and staring humans.

And what is a brown bear going to do
without pine woods and berry bushes, With-
out happy rocky trails, with nothing but
four walls and an immense loneliness, away
from everything he was born to enjoy, and
no hope of ever being free again with his
friends the trees, the birds, and his fellow
bears!

By the time I had come out at the other
end of the Zoo I had reached a point where
I would like to see all those tortured, un-
happy beasts put back in their native
haunts, if it could be done without causing
them suffering, to close every zoo in the
world and give every animal the freedom
of the earth.

With the movie and the museum and
endless books and pictures there is no child
in the world but can get to know all there
is to know about his furred and feathered
brethren. It is not necessary to put any
creature behind iron bars there to fret
out its short life in futile, agonizing rebel-
lion and Sick longing for the freedom that
is his right.

We have done with the slavery of our
fellow men, let us have done with the slav-
ery of our furred and feathered brothers.

Some day when Love rules the world
there shall be no more cages, no more
steel traps, no cruel and deadly poison lurk-
mg‘ in dark corners, for the unwary, no ani-
mal shows, no bull—ﬁghts. And then shall
man also go free, for only the man who
loves all God’s creatures can be a truly free
50111, knowing the secret of real happiness,
and alive to the wonder of God’s world as
He has planned it.

 




 

 

 

 

Page 28

How Wild Creatures Care for

Themselves when Sick

NSTINCT teaches the Wild things how

to care for themselves in sickness and
in health; Animals and birds invariably
do the right thing when disease attacks
themﬁ They rest. Where human beings
continue their labors, if at all possible, the
lower creatures take it easy.

One day on the Western desert I encount-
ered a coyote that was sick.
he was not well because of his lazy, indif-
ferent manner, and the watery solution
that dripped from his eyes. Ordinarily a
coyote runs rapidly away upon the ap-
proach of a human being, but this desert
wolf scarcely paid any attention to me,
lying stretched out at full length in the
blistering heat of the noon-day summer
sun. The animal evidently knew the cura-
tive value of the sun’s rays.

Being interested in nature study, I hid
behind a near—by rock to see what he would
do. For perhaps half an hour he lay there
perfectly still. Then he arose slowly, walk-
ed over to a patch of grass, and began
eating ravenously. It was a kind of grass
that animals eat when their digestive sys-
tem is at fault. Doubtless this coyote had
intestinal inﬂuenza, including a genuine
old-fashioned stomach ache.

That grass would act as a kind of
medicine. Another half-hour passe-d, dur-
ing which the animal rested. Then he
jumped up and dashed off over a neighbor-
ing knoll, apparently feeling ﬁt as a ﬁddle.

On another occasion I came upon a
grouse with a broken wing. Blood was
oozing from the feathers, dyeing them red.
Never whimpering, she walked down to the
near-by creek and used her sound wing
to ﬂip water over the damaged member,
washing it thoroughly. This duty perform-
ed, she walked up a slanting tree that had
fallen against another one, jumped out on
a tiny limb, and hid in a dense bit of
vegetation. The limb on which she perch-
ed was too small for vermin such as weasels
or minks to climb and, being screened by
dense vegetation, she was safe from the
prying eyes of hawk or eagle. Rare judg-
ment this. Not all human beings, even,
would be smart enough to resort to such
strategy. The bird was able to come down
once in a while for food and water, and
could rest on the limb until the wing healed.

I have seen many strange incidents deal-
ing with wild life in the woods. One morn-
ing, while climbing a timbered slope, I
encountered a tiny fawn that had a slight
wound in its side, probably the result of a
fall sometime. Unobserved, I watched the
pretty little fellow lick the wound with its
clean, pink tongue in order to remove the
accumulation of blood. Then he did a still
stranger thing—he went over to a pine-
tree, which was thickly covered with gum-
my pitch, and rubbed against the tree for
several minutes. How it must have hurt
him!

He was gritty, however, and continued
until the cut was heavily covered with
pitch. The reason for his doing so ﬂashed
through my mind instantly. The ill-smell-
mg pitch would keep ﬂies and other insect
pests away. I ﬁgured he would continue
the pitch treatment until he was well again.

When the wild creatures get sick they

I could tell -

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

can’t call a doctor. They must rely on their
wits and on instinct to effect a cure. And
they seem to use a good deal of common-
sense at such times. At any rate they
avail themselves of every curative agency
they know. HENRY H. GRAHAM

Saved by Salt—and School-
boys

CARLETON A. SCHEINERT
HE herd of mountain sheep which fre-
quent Pike’s Peak when the snows close
the summit to tourists is growing again—
thanks to the courage and care of a group
of school-boys.

Once, climbing to the summit of the great
Peak, several of us came about the edge of
a boulder, and there, across a narrow
chasm, was a big-horn ram! He was sur-
prised, too! Slowly the head came up with
its great curving horns as he looked at us
carefully. Then he turned, sauntered about
a nearby boulder—and was gone like the
wind! Not till then did we realize how we
were holding our breaths, actually para—
lyzed by the remarkable event. Not even a
hand had moved, not a camera thought of!

That winter a ranger found a sheep from
the band dead. Soon another was found,
and another. Examination of the bodies
showed that the-y died from sickness caused

‘by lack of food—and salt. Heavy snows had

driven them from accustomed feeding
grounds, had covered much other possible
food. The sickness was contagious, the band
was daily growing smaller. By spring, if
not sooner, signs pointed to disappearance
of the herd! Too rare, already!

Appeals for volunteers to carry salt to
the dying sheep were broadcast, published
in the local papers. And among those read—
ing the news stories of the sheep, and the
appeal, was one of the ﬁrst members of the
Colorado Mountain Club, Dr. Lloyd Shaw,
now superintendent of the Cheyenne Moun-
tain School at Colorado Springs. In the
school were the “Cheyene Mountaineers,” a
group of boys and girls banded together to
protect our animals, birds and ﬂowers. Here
was practical work for them!

A visit was made to ranger headquarters,
then a party of boys loaded their pack—
sacks with salt for the sheep dying on the
boulder ﬁelds and started their hard trek
up the snow—clad Peak. Rangers had given
them locations at which to leave the salt,
not only on the Peak itself but on neigh-
boring mountains where the sheep were
wintering.

Long and hard was the trip, progress
was slow, for the snow in some places made
canyons almost impassable. But faithfully
and staunchly these young school—boys
trudged with their heavy loads, (not for-
getting their cameras!) and at each desig-
nated location they left a portion of their
salt for the sheep before they again turned
homeward. '

None of the sheep were to be seen on the
trip. Wary and ﬂeet of foot they were
keeping their distance, so no pictures were
taken, cameras returned home unused. But
the boys learned that the sheep had found
their salt soon after it had been left. Ran-
gers reported no more sheep found dead.
The Pike’s Peak herd of Rocky Mountain
sheep were saved!

Ebb.1933

An Unusual Snake

FERN BERRY

N the Michigan pine plains is commonly
found one of the most interesting rep-
tiles in the United States, one with a habit
which no other snake in this country (and
few in the world) possesses. This snake is
the commonly called blow snake or puff-
adder or, more rarely, called the spreading
adder or hog-nosed snake.
It is a thick-bodied snake and is rather
short, never measuring much more than

 

BLOW SNAKE OF MICHIGAN
PINE PLAINS

two feet in length. When approached by
an enemy it assumes the attitude of the
deadly cobra of India and from the power
of hissing sharply or spitting it gets its
name blow snake or puff adder. It ﬂattens
its head until it is almost twice as wide
and less than half as thick as normal. It
will strike savagely but never quite hits
the mark. It is entirely harmless, despite
the stories of its poison breath. If it ﬁnds
that it. cannot bluff you by striking, and if
you tap it lightly with a stick or with your
boot, it will slowly turn over upon its back
and relax with gaping jaws. It is to all ap-
pearances a dead reptile. Should you walk
away it will. twist its head about and, if
all is quiet, it will quickly come to life and
crawl to a place of safety. If you pick it
up and turn it over it will repeat the “dy-
ing” process over and over a half dozen
times. '

Like most of the reptiles commonly found
in Michigan the blow snake is a beneﬁt to
farming and gardening, for it destroys many
insects and rodents which are really pests
to all growing things. It should enjoy the
protection of mankind who are always ready
to cry, "‘Kill the snake.”

Annuity Bonds

Many men and women, lovers of animals,
are getting both happiness and material
comfort from our two Societies’ Annuity
Bonds. These bonds are absolutely safe.
They pay from 4 to 8%—according to your
age. Send the coupon for a free folder
which gives full details. Fill in the coupon
and mail it now.

The Massachusetts S. P. C. A. (or)
The American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Ave., Boston, Mass.

Without obligation to me, please send
me your folder which tells all about your
Annuity Bonds.

Address

 

 




1. ...

 

 

 

 

 

 

tpuIanAf’ ’.

1 ANGELL m 1868,AND FOR Fon.ONE
o. -

The Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

The American Humane Education Society

The American Band of Mercy

I would not enter on my list of friends,
Though graced with polished manners and ﬁne sense,
Yet wanting sensibility, the man
Who needlessly sets foot upon a worm.
—COWPER

AND Mencv To -

EVERY LIVING
CREATURE.

 

Published monthly by the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood, Massachusetts

Entered as second-class matter, June 29, 1917, at the Post Ofﬁce at Norwood, Mass., under the Act of March 3, 1879
Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 3, 1917, authorized, July 13, 1919

Boston Ofﬁce, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

Vol. 66

The day of the cruel steel trap is doomed.
This reproach to any people permitting it
all decent men and women will, sooner or
later, refuse to tolerate. Time has cut out
of the statute books of many a state and
nation their sanctions of even greater cruel-
ties.

A few years ago no one thought a law
could be secured in Massachusetts or New
York forbidding the cropping of dogs’ ears;
and now Pennsylvania has followed with a
similar law. Public sentiment made pos-
sible the law. It will yet deal with the tor-
turing steel trap in the same Way.

If only Victor Hugo’s great prophecy
might come true before this century dies:

In the Twentieth Century war will be
dead, hatred will be dead, dogmas will be
dead; man will live. He will possess some-
thing higher than all these—a great coun-
try, the whole earth; and a great hope, the
whole heaven.

The Bill We Lost

UR Bill before the Massachusetts Legis-

lature to stop the keeping of captive
animals at roadside places, such as gas sta-
tions, lunch houses and amusement resorts,
was turned down by the committee to which
the Bill was submitted. We had every rea-
son to believe from what the committee told
us that the Bill would be sent to the Legis-
lature with a favorable report. It was an-
other disappointment. The Legislature of
the past two or three years seems to be com-
posed largely of men who have little inter-
est in animal welfare. We suggest to our
more than 25,000 readers in Massachusetts
that before the next election they ask their
candidate for a place at the State House
how he will vote on legislation for the pro-
tection of animals. We shall try for our
Bill another year, of course. We were even
more surprised that the Governor should
sign this Bill which deﬁed the great popu—

lar vote than that the Legislature should
pass it.

July, 1933

Our Anti-Steel Trap Law

HE action of the Massachusetts Legis-

lature in passing an act to amend the
Anti-Steel-Trap Law, which was signed by
the Governor on May 16, is a challenge to the
humane people of this State, particularly to
every animal welfare organization. Through
our united efforts, we secured the adoption
of this humane law by one of the largest
majorities ever given a question on the bal-
lot, a majority of 327,000. SiX hundred and

siX thousand voters favored that law, and

now, in less than three years of its opera-
tion, it has been amended in a manner that
destroys its eﬁectiveness.

Meeting this challenge, practically all
the societies concerned in the protection of
animals in MassaChusetts assembled at
Boston, May 25, and unanimously voted to
attach a referendum to the amended law,
to again place it on the ballot, in the 1934
state election. It is necessary that we ﬁle
15,000 signatures of voters with the Sec-
retary of the Commonwealth by the middle
of this coming August. Upon the success-
ful completion of this ﬁrst step, the
amended law becomes automatically sus—
pended until the voters have an opportunity
to accept it or reject it.

Our faith in the justice of this law is
stronger than ever before. It was succeed-
ing admirably, and in another year or two
it would have become impregnable. The
Legislature and the Governor succumbed to
the organized efforts of the hunters, the
fur trade and a handful of farmers, con-
temptuously setting aside the great popu-
lar verdict given in the 1930 election, pre-
sumably upon the assumption that the hu-
mane forces are unorganized and incapable
of resenting through effective political ac-
tion the injustice thrust upon them. The
ﬁling of the referendum petition is our an-
swer to that assumption. We believe we
shall again have a majority of the voters
with us, but let us not deceive ourselves—
it is going to be a hard campaign to win.
This time we must win with a “no” vote,
which is always more difﬁcult than with a
“yes.”

Every humanely inclined person who

No. 7

would like to aid this great cause, either by
securing signatures of voters to the peti-
tion or by contributing money, is urged to
communicate at once with the Humane
Trapping Council, 5 Park Square, Boston,
or, if our members prefer and are willing
to solicit names or to contribute, they may
send their replies directly to the Massachu-
setts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston,
and we will see that their communication is
turned over to the Humane Trapping
Council.

Chained by the Roadside

0, they are not always chained. Not

at the leg of every one rattles the
iron fetter. Some are shut up in narrow
cages for curious eyes to stare at, left, for
the most part, to pace back and forth with-
in their comfortless prison home. But all
are prisoners. All taken from their open
world of forest, ﬁeld and stream where the
Giver of life had placed them, making them
free to come and go, to seek their food in
nature’s way, to play and mate with their
kind, to rear their young. Who can tell?
Do memories come back to them of days of
freedom and of such happiness as bird and
beast may know before man caught them
with his cunning and made them captives?

You have seen them, these prisoners of
the roadside, now at some one’s gasoline
station, now at some lunch stand, where
they are kept to attract attention in the
hope that passers by, seeing them, may stop
and buy whatever the roadside merchant
(‘2) may have for sale.

How amusing, Heaven save the Mark! to
certain fathers and mothers to buy a bottle
of ginger ale and let the little folks see the
bear seize it with his paws and drink! How
entertaining to Show the children the chat-
tering monkey hopping about in his cage
or putting out his almost human hand for
nut or other bit of food!

Who that has stopped and watched these
unhappy victims of man’s skill to trap and
capture, noticed the sad and hopeless look
in their eyes, has failed to see, if there is
a trace of humaneness in his soul, that

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 76

A Tenement District in
Birddom

MAUDE WOOD HENRY

HEN people “go slumming” they

invade the tenement districts where
foreign children hang out of every window
in peril of their lives. These colonful, noisy,
ill-smelling and crowded places teem with
what some are pleased to call “picturesque”
life.

In birddom, as well, we have these thickly
populated, noisy and noisome quarters,
dear to the hearts of herons and some
other birds. You may be acquainted with
one of these ancient heronries where hun—
dreds of ramshackle structures perch pre-
cariously in the tree—tops, threatening to
collapse at any moment and precipitate the
craning youngsters mayhap into the marshy
waters below. A heronry is a sort of heredi-
tary bird-slum, “smelling to heaven” as
does a foreign tenement district. It also
is picturesque in its squalor. Invade one
of these communities and, if black-crowned
night herons compose it, you will be greeted
with such a fearful “quawking” that you
will want to stop your ears. The din from
the combined throats of all the citizens of
Heron Town is deafening. Sociable among
themselves, these birds resent human in-
truders.

A huge heronry of the black crowns ex-
ists in an extensive marsh on the shore of
Lake Erie. Here, where eagles, terns, coots,
wild ducks, sandpipers, red-winged black-
birds and many other birds of the water
soar, swim, ﬁsh and trot about on their
long legs, thousands of herons also make
their home. In a group of willow trees
nearly every available site is occupied by
heron nests, some belonging to the great
blue giant among these birds. The accom-
panying picture was secured eventually af-
ter the pandemonium had subsided. Pale

' ,, ,..; ﬁ .. a? i
’ aM'u. .- " g ‘ v,

HERONRY OF BLACK-CROWNED
NIGHT HERONS

OUR

     

bluish eggs could be seen in some of the
lower nests, while the willow branches held
many half—grown youngsters clamoring for
food. The nests, even more sketchy than
those of the dove and cuckoo, reckoned
among our worst builders, were placed any-
where from ﬁve to twenty—ﬁve feet from
the bit of ground on which the trees grew.

Night herons are well named, for they
are night birds except when their young de-
mand meals at all hours. About sundown,
when marsh life wakes up generally, they
get active, taking minnows, frogs, toads,
crawﬁsh and small reptiles With the skill
born of long practice. When not engaged
in procuring food they roost in the trees.
A heronry is about as thickly populated a
bird settlement as you would wish to ﬁnd.

We still have some herons with us des-
pite the loss of practically all of those mag-
niﬁcent birds, the snowy herons or egrets,
whose wedding plumes went into millinery
shops years ago. The great blue heron
that stands four feet in his stockings; the
little blue heron which has no “aigrettes”
to lose; the little green heron, smallest of
the heron tribes and a solitary, unsociable
creature averse to colonies; the yellow-
crowned night heron, likewise inclined to
ﬂock by itself; these and a number of
others which mostly inhabit the southern
coast, replete with rivers, bays, salt water
lagoons and marshes which they fancy, still
make pictures for us as they disport them—
selves after their various fashions. Even
when they make those “quawking” noises
which have been likened to “two or three
hundred Indians choking one another,” as
do the black crowns, we are glad to have
them, for these big greenish-black and gray
birds with the black-crowned heads belong
to the twilight—time in the marsh-lands and
are a part of the landscape, ancestral
abodes and all.

The American Goldfinch

ROBERT SPARKS WALKER

WHEN the American goldﬁnch alights
on a ripened ﬂower-head, a Zinnia, a
marigold, a dandelion, or a sunﬂower, you
may think that the yellow ﬂower has in
some strange manner become suddenly ani-
mated, and when the bird takes ﬂight, it
may appear that a part or all of the
ﬂower has taken wings.

The appetite of the American goldﬁnch
is such that he cannot pass without stopping
to visit the ﬂowers that have been changed
to seeds. The fact is, it is always seed-time
and harvest with him. Sunﬂowers make
his choicest seeds, although he will take
almost any kind of weed seeds when hunger
compels him to go out and forage.

I have often gone into the ﬁeld of dead
weeds and in an instant the yellow ob—
jects that began to ﬂit about moved as
if the entire ﬁeld of old ﬂower-heads had
taken wing and were ﬂying off to another
ﬁeld. And the seeds do really take ﬂight
when these hungry birds have swallowed

~ the contents of the ﬂower-heads,—the hand-

some little seed packets that Nature puts
up chieﬂy for birds.

The American goldﬁnch is such a small
bird that you might not often see him if
it were not for his rich rippling notes that
may well be likened unto water dripping
from a woodland precipice. His little voice

DUMB ANIMALS

M ay 1933

 

THE GOLDFINCH TWINS

is so keyed that it reaches the ears on cheer-
ful sound waves, and as if uttered in beaded
drops of dew. If one can imagine a dew
covered strand of spider-web jarred so that
tiny drops, if solid, hit an iron surface,
you may gain an idea of what the rippling
notes of the goldﬁnch resemble.

Because his diet is composed chieﬂy of
seeds is not proof that he is not a useful
bird. When a goldﬁnch swings in the top
of a dead weed he is surely destroying a
pest that is almost as bad as a destructive
insect. In the ragweeds, thistles, wild let-
tuce, dandelions, and other weed pests, he
takes his stand and by eating their seeds
keeps thousands of weeds from sprouting
in the gardens that would cause the gar-
dener a great deal of hard labor with hoes
and plows to destroy.

The mature ﬂower-head of a dandelion
holds on an average about two hundred and
twenty-ﬁve seeds, each one ﬁtted with a
natural parachute that carries it safely to
distant ﬁelds. The goldﬁnch does not stop
eating when he discovers all seeds in a
single head. His little body’s engine de-
mands so much fuel that it requires tens
of thousands of seeds each month to keep
it going in good order. He has so often
been observed hanging to the thistle-head
that some people persist in calling him a
“thistle-bird.” Whether the goldﬁnch likes
this name or not I do not know. Some people
call him also by the name of “wild canary.”

When a colony of goldﬁnches take ﬂight,
you will not be compelled to see the color
of their coats to determine their name, for
when you once get a glimpse of this small
bird’s swinging ﬂight in the air, you can-
not mistake him from other birds. Down
the birds swing, then rise higher, then down
again as if they are riding the ocean waves,
chuckling in a silver tone as they ﬂy.

A ﬂock of goldﬁnches are so fond of
their small social crowd that, like the cedar
waxwings, they are late'in pairing off and
taking up the tasks of raising a family.
But they seem to take life easy and do not
rush into housekeeping in early spring as
many of their bird neighbors are inclined
to do.

You can protect the song-birds of your
locality by either taking your cats away
with you when you take a vacation, or by
leaving them in places where they will re-
ceive sufﬁcient food and proper care.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

Feb. 1933

Spanish Attitude Toward

Animals
KADRA MAYSI

[TH my visit to Spain ending, the
waterfront of Barcelona spreading

before my window and the Tour de Carol on
the border line of the Pyrenees ahead, I seek
a summary of my observations as to treat—
ment of animals in this land of sunshine,
kindliness, and laughter. I have visited
Irun, San Sebastian, Madrid, Segovia, Me-
dina del Campo, Salamanca, Avila, Toledo,
Cordoba, Sevilla, Granada, Valencia, Bar-
celona, and made side trips to a number of
other places. And, in every place, I have
not only observed carefully but have made
inquiries and entered into conversations
with residents in regard to their attitude
toward animals and their opinion as to gen-
eral treatment of them throughout the
country. I am not good at pointing morals;
so I shall relate three incidents (possibly
examples) of treatment of animals which
I saw and which seem, to me, to sum up the
situation.

As we left Avila one afternoon, upon a
crowded third-class train, my cousin and
I were startled by blood-curdling yelps and
squeals coming from a few seats behind us.
My cousin turned pale and implored me:
“Don’t look! Don’t look!” But I was al-
ready on my feet and looking. I had thought
it a dog, but it was a large rabbit, of the
variety so common in Spain, and a peasant
woman was holding it, head down, in a doll
carriage which just ﬁtted it while a vil-
lainous-looking man tied its hind feet tight
to the perpendicular back of the little ve-
hicle. It was unnecessarily and wantonly
cruel. The man was pulling as hard as he
could upon the twine which fastened its
"hind legs, and the animal was being bound
head down in a position as uncomfortable as
could be. Before I knew what I was say-
ing, I had cried out: “No, no! Es may
cruel!” All the other passengers arose and
gathered around. A number of them agreed
pleasantly: “Si; es muy cruel!” But no-
body tried to do anything about it. The rab-
bit had stopped screaming but the woman
(whether she did it mere-1y to show me the
creature or whether to ﬂaunt my protests)
raised the carriage and shook it until the
poor beast squealed again. I appealed
to the rather nice looking man who sat 0p-
posite me. My cousin, who spoke Spanish
ﬂuently, asked him if nothing could be done
about it. He shook his head and replied that
it was very cruel, but that the rabbit be-
longed to the woman and was to be eaten
anyway.

Passing the Alcazar San Juan, the boy
from whom I was buying water deliberately
drove a stray dog under the train and then
grinned at us. I handed him back the sec-
ond glass of water which I had asked for
and beckoned another boy, saying that I
would buy from a boy not so cruel. He
grinned rather shamefacedly and regret-
fully—whether from pangs of conscience
or from loss of the second ten centimos,
I cannot say. But a man standing near by
saw it and, giving the boy a swift smack,
ran around the end of the train and called
the dog. Other men joined in and it was
brought out from under the coach before
we began to move.

Upon our ﬁrst two mornings in Granada,

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

' Page 29

 

“BARNEY,” A TWENTY-THREE-YEAR-OLD DAIRY HORSE

 

we were awakened by the agonized and
awful screaming of a dog. The cries lasted
for fully a minute. The animal was evi-
dently continuing in pain. We saw people
running in that direction, policemen among
them. I fell back upon the bed, weeping,
and vowed that, Alhambra or not, I was
leaving the city and the country. My cousin
(more sensibly) rang for the maid and de-
manded an explanation. The maid said that
all dogs without homes must be killed and
that it was the dog catcher. We had heard
no shot. We jumped at the conclusion that
the dog was being clubbed or stabbed upon
the street. I weeping and my cousin argu-
ing, we nearly drove the kind maid into
madness. She ﬁnally managed to tell us
that the dogs were lassoed with a rope and
taken to a gas chamber where they were
asphyxiated. Naturally they screamed,
more in terror than pain, when being
caught

Incident number one was wanton and in-
excusable. Incident number two showed me
that, while some Spaniards might be de—
liberately or thoughtlessly cruel, the hu-
mane element outnumbered the inhumane.
Incident number three proved that some
Spanish cities are on a footing with our
best in merciful methods towards their sur—
plus animals.

“Barney”
SARA W. MCINTYRE

OR eighteen of his twenty-three years,

“Barney” has been hauling the Camp-
bell dairy wagon around Northﬁeld, Minn.
Everyone knows him and all are interested
in the intelligence he displays. He knows
the route perfectly. Mr. Overstrud, the milk
carrier, never takes the reins; he just
speaks to Barney. The horse watches him
go from house to house, through the back
yards, and keeps up with him on the street.
If he doesn’t do it fast enough, Mr. Over-
strud calls, “Hurry up!” and Barney ambles
a little faster. He turns the corners alone
and when they get to the end of the route
on one street he turns around all by him—
self in the middle of the street while his
master is delivering in some yard. If he is
turning around when a car is coming along
he stands still, even though he may be
directly across the street, so that the driver
of the car may tell on which side of him

to drive. Unfortunately, there are blinds on
Barney’s bridle which necessitate his turn-
ing his head completely around in order to
watch his master. Mr. Overstrud told me
that one day, just to prove how useless the
reins are with Barney, he left them off en-
tirely and the horse made the route per-
fectly.

His owner is very fond of him and shows
him every kindness. Every summer for two
weeks he is turned out to pasture. At ﬁrst
he is as happy as a colt but by the end of
the two weeks he is restless and ﬁdgety.
When he is back in the harness and out on
the route again he is as delighted as the
proverbial ﬁre horse.

Thinking Things Out

HELEN DICKSON

IMMIE was a ﬁne chestnut horse that
I used to drive, and he was a constant
proof that animals can think. Driving on
country roads and trails, sometimes through
deep snow—banks, we occasionally got into
difﬁculties. Then, instead of becoming ﬂur-
ried and nervous, Jimmie could be relied on
to take his time and think things out.

Jimmie sometimes put his brains to less
admirable uses, as, for example, when he
learned to open the gate of his pasture and
wander around the orchard, eating apples.
The gate was fastened with a large hook,
which dropped into a staple. Jimmie was
seen to pick this hook up with his lips, and
the rest was easy.

As soon as it was discovered how the
wise horse made his daily escape, a wire
hoop was put over the gate-post and the
head of the gate. Then Jimmie was let into
the pasture through bars at the other end,
and the family hid within sight of the gate
to watch his reaction to the new difﬁculty.

Jimmie sauntered up to the gate with a
nonchalant air, bent his shining copper neck
and lifted the hook. Now, according to all
the rules of the game, the gate should swing
open, but it did not. He shook the top bar
with his teeth. Still the gate resisted. J im-
mie stood still and thought. Then he nuz-
zled along the top of the gate until he felt
the wire hoop. He examined it, and thought
again. Suddenly be seized the hoop in his
teeth and lifted it off the gate-head. The
gate opened, and Jimmie trotted through
with a ﬂick of his handsome tail.

 




 

 

 

Page-8
Our Dumb Animals

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston ofﬁce; 180 Longwood Av-
enue, Boston, Mass., to which all communications
should be addressed.

Dr. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON, Editor
WILLIAM M. MORRILL, Assistant

 

JANUARY, 1933

 

FOR TERMS, see back cover.

AGENTS to take orders for Our Dumb Animals are
wanted everywhere. Liberal commissions are offered.

EDITORS of all periodicals who receive this pub-
lication this month are invited to reprint any of the
articles with or without credit.

MANUSCRIPTS relating to animals, particularly
prose articles of about three hundred words, are solic-
ited. We do not wish to consider prose manuscripts
longer than 800 words, nor verse in excess of thirty-
six lines. The shorter the better. All manuscripts
should be typewritten and an addressed envelope with
full return postage enclosed with each offering.

 

 

A Letter to General Dawes

November 28, 1932
General Charles G. Dawes
Century of Progress
Chicago, Illinois
My dear General Dawes:

All the humane societies of the United
States will be greatly distressed to learn
that it has been proposed to feature a
Rodeo Show on the grounds of the “Cen-
tury of Progress.” The facts are that these
shows are not a reproduction of early days
upon the plains. They are an exaggeration
of what took place there, and features of
the show involve a treatment of animals
that in the most of our states is in viola-
tion of law. For years the nearly ﬁve hun-
dred humane organizations of the country
have been protesting against these shows,
not only because of the cruelties involved
but because of their demoralizing inﬂuence
upon the young. Resolutions have been
passed by the Illinois Federation of Women’s
Clubs, numbering more than seventy thou-
sand, and by the National Congress of Par-
ents and Teachers, with a membership of a
million and a half.

On behalf of our two organizations here
in this state, with their thousands of mem-
bers, I am urging you to do whatever is in
your power to discountenance this proposed
exhibition on the grounds of the “Century
of Progress.” I devoutly hope that such an
event is not going to be among the things
that we present to the world. Pretty soon
we shall be going into the bull-ﬁghting busi-
ness if the people who manage these things
succeed in continuing to reproduce them.

I am, with very high regard,

Most truly yours,
FRANCIS H. ROWLEY
President

Mainly About Dogs

“Is ” your dog a friend or acquaint-
ance? asks J. C. O’Hare in “Popular
Dogs.” He continues: “Never do I see a dog

that I do not think of Helen Keller. This
world-famous woman said, ‘Were my Maker
to grant me but a single glance through
these s1ghtless eyes of mine, I would with-

out question choose to see ﬁrst a child—
then a dog.’ ”

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Medals for Heroic Dogs

ONOR to whom honor is due is the

basis of the proposal to give recogni-
tion to the heroism, intelligence and devo-
tion of the dog. To this end arrangements
have been made by the Massachusetts S. P.
C. A., in co-operation with the Boston Post,
for the awarding of ten medals to those
dogs of New England whose acts of cour-
age, sagacity and ﬁdelity entitle them to
marked recognition.

Candidates for such honors during the
period from Dec. 1, 1932, to June 1, 1933,
it is conﬁdently believed, will be abundantly
forthcoming. The Post invites its readers
throughout New England, to send it ac-
counts of dogs who perform heroic acts in
behalf of human kind or their own kin, of
which the writers have direct and personal
knowledge.

A gold medal will be awarded to the dog
who, in the opinion of competent judges
appointed by The Post, performs the most
outstanding act of heroism. To nine other
dogs, if that number qualify, silver medals
will be given for deeds of lesser merit.

Representatives of the Massachusetts S.
P. C. A. will investigate, so far as possible,
such cases as are cited by The Post, to sub-
stantiate the facts carefully and impartially.
“Lack of literary ability should not act as
a deterent to any reader,” says The Post in
announcing this popular project. “This is
not a contest for the “best animal stories”
based on ﬁction or hearsay. Quite the re-
verse. The medals will be awarded on the
basis of actual accomplishment by the dog,
for some outstanding service to a human
being or to some other animal, and not upon
the master’s ability to write.”

Here is a ﬁne opportunity to direct the
widest attention to the dog, who as “man’s
best friend” is proving his title clear.

Horses Going to School

Forty-ﬁve horses, Percherons and Bel-
gians, are really attending Cornell Uni-
versity. So information from Ithaca, New
York, tells us. The idea appears to be, ac-
cording to the professor of psychology who
has charge of them, to discover “the quality
of real horse-sense.”

The ﬁrst lesson, we are told, is to learn
how to open the cover of a feed-box. After
being fed a number of times with the cover
raised, the cover is dropped and the horses
are supposed to learn how to lift it with
their noses. Some learn much faster than
others. Then there are tests as to memory.
A partially blind horse, the report says,
opened the box in 15 seconds after an inter-
val of ﬁve months. Their sense of smell
seems relatively slight and also their abil-
ity to distinguish colors.

A constant supply of clean, fresh water
is necessary for all domestic animals at all
seasons of the year.

Jan. 1933

A Letter of Appreciation

President Rowley
M. S. P. C. A.
Boston, Mass.

My dear Dr. Rowley:

I am writing to express our gratitude to
the Society, to its head doctor, Dr. Dailey,
and to the head of the distemper ward, Mr.
Blakely, for the ﬁne work done in regard to
our Belgian Shepherd dog, “Chief.”

Doubtless you receive many letters of
appreciation in regard to cures effected at
the Angel] Memorial Hospital but in the
case of the death of the dog appreciation is
perhaps more rare. The tendency would be
to throw the blame for the dog’s death on
the hospital; whereas the responsibility
rests with the owner. The tendency, with
dogs as with humans, is to take them to the
hospital only as the last resort. When the
hospital receives the case it is usually ad-
vanced and often hopeless.

Undoubtedly had the dog been taken to
the hospital a week earlier he would still
be alive but the acute pain and nineteen
convulsions suffered before he was entered
at the hospital affected his brain. He recog-
nized no member of the family and lost all
volition.

In the name of the Society and its staff,
please accept our gratitude and apprecia#
tion for what was done. .

Sincerely yours,

 

Our Work in the South

Our workers in the Southern States in
both the white and colored schools report a
steady growth of humane feeling. One of
them writes:

At one of the schools, where it was not
safe for a dog to come on the school
grounds, before our work began there, the
teacher of that school was telling me, that
a stray dog came there the other day and
was following one of the girls around. She
saw that he was neglected, friendle-ss and
hungry. So she took a part of her lunch
and gave it to the dog. The other children
became so interested that in a meeting of
their Band of Mercy they presented this
girl with a gold star for her act of kindness.
The teacher was saying to me, “No one can
ever tell how far-reaching this work is. I
am thoroughly convinced of the great im-
portance of it and you can count on me.”

On the blackboard of another school I
read: “This is the week of Thanksgiving,
many turkeys have met their death as a
result, we hope their death was not of long
suffering.” “Without kindness there can be
no true Joy.”

Mr. Talbot in the Schools

In November Mr. L. Raymond Talbot,
school lecturer for the Massachusetts S. P.
C. A., spoke before the State Teachers’ Col-
lege, Lowell; Groveland High school;
Thomas A. Edison school, Boston; William
Barton Rogers school, Hyde Park; and J un-
ior High schools in Reading, Sterling, May-
nard, and Chestnut Street, Springﬁeld. His
audiences ranged from 100 to 500, with an
aggregate of 2,290.

 




 

 

Apr. 1933

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

The Squirrel Tribe

II. The Red Squirrel
WALTER A. DYER

HE red squirrel (Sciurida hudsonicus) ,

called the chickaree in some parts of

the country, is even more abundant
than the gray. He is smaller and his tail
is less bushy. Also he is more active, more
playful, more mischievous, and more friend-
ly. I believe he really likes his human
neighbors although he scolds and taunts
them. He makes his home in hollow trees
and stumps, or in a nest built on a sort of
platform in a tree. Sometimes he roofs over
an old crow’s nest. He also builds burrows
in the ground and hiding places in old stone
walls, partly as storage places and partly
as retreats in times of danger.

The red squirrel is more thrifty than his
gray cousin and works as hard as he plays.
Though often active a large part of the
winter, he never fails to lay by a goodly
store of food. He begins as early as July
to gather the green cones of the white pine,
burying them under dry leaves and pine
needles on the forest ﬂoor. N o matter how
deep the snow is in winter, he seems to have
no difﬁculty in locating his cache. Later on
he gathers nuts and acorns, corn and apples,
and stores them in tree cavities and bur-
rows. In winter he harvests the small cones
of spruce and hemlock, extracting the seeds
with great skill. When spring comes he is
ready to feed on fresh young buds and is
said to tap the sugar maples by digging
shallow holes in the upper sides of branches
and then returning later to drink the sweet
sap which ﬁlls them.

Though smaller than the gray squirrel,
the red is a better ﬁghter and will often
put his big cousin to rout, sometimes driv-
ing him and his family away from the
neighborhood. My friend, the late Charles
Livingston Bull, told me that he once saw
a red squirrel put two grays to ﬂight, pur-
suing them with angry chattering and nip-
ping their tails.

The red squirrels are our jolliest and
naughtiest animal neighbors. They fascin-
ate me with their habits of industry and
play. They harvest most of our hickory
nuts and I don’t know what else they steal
(they have a bad reputation as robbers of
birds’ nests), but I am willing to let them
have a share of my food for the pleasure
their merry presence gives me.

They have a clever way of concealing
their homes and larders by always using cir-
cuitous routes, and I have tried to trail
them without much success. Once I dis-
covered that a pair was storing food in
a hollow apple-tree branch close to the
barn, which had been occupied successively
by bluebirds and starlings, but they never
approached it from the ground. The usual
route from the hickory trees was along a
fence rail to a poplar tree, thence to the
barn roof, up one side, along the ridge,
and down the other side, and then by a long
leap across to the upper branches of the
apple tree when no one appeared to be
looking.

When a pair of red squirrels is in a play-
ful mood it is difﬁcult not to stop work to
watch them. They chase each other over
the barn roof with such utter abandon.
Vertical walls seem as easy for them to

negotiate as solid ground and they seem
not to know the meaning of upside-down.
Their movements are sudden, their atti-
tudes always graceful. [And I think they
have a rollicking sense of humor"

Henry Ward Beecher liked the red squir-
rel. Here is something he wrote in his “Star
Papers”: “Yonder is a red squirrel on the
ground, utterly without fear and prying
about in that pert and nimble way that al-
ways makes me laugh. They are so proud
of their tails, too! They hold them up and
coquette with them as a lady twirls and
ﬂourishes her fan. And though when run-
ning on the ground, or peeping about for
seeds, they trail them at full length, yet
they never sit down for a moment without
closing up this important member as if they
feared something would step on it.”

Mischievous, garrulous, noisy, quarrel—
some, prying, thieving they are, and yet I
like them. They are as thrifty, practical,
and industrious as any animals I know. Un-
like most thieves, they are neither shiftless
nor lazy. Though so much of their time in
summer seems to be given up to pure fun,
I know they are not forgetful of the needs
of their families and I think they must live
Very happily all winter.

In an interview with John Maseﬁeld, poet
laureate of England, while he was in Bos-
ton recently, a Boston Globe reporter asked:
“What does it take to be a poet besides the
technical requirements?” To this Mr. Mase—
ﬂeld replied: “First is a greedy enjoyment
of life, a love of beauty and excitement and
sympathy for all men and animals, and ani—
mated nature.”

If the 1931 rate of reduction in the num-
ber of pit ponies continues there will be
none left in the mines ten years hence,
states the Pit Ponies Protection Society,
commenting on the latest (1931) mines re-
port, which shows a decrease of 4,662 pit
horses and ponies. More than 44,500, how-
ever, are still used below ground.

 

Page 53

The City Squirrel
MARGARET E. BRUNER

N 0 one would think the staid old apple-tree

Across the street has such a jaunty

guest—

When he darts out immaculately dressed,
A more fastidious squirrel you’ll never see;
And he is nimble to a high degree.

It seems at times, he understands a jest,

This acrobat, as agile as the best,

Who, every day, brings happiness to me.

I think the tree, too, likes to have him
there——
Perhaps he makes it dream of youthful
days; '
And so my store of nuts I gladly share,
For both seem grateful, though in silent
ways,
And I am hoping nothing will molest
This kindly tree that holds the squirrel’s
nest.

Ending “the Cruelty En-

tailed”

The shining-ﬂanked, eager hunters at the
National Horse Show, the keen military
fencers, with their rhythmic action and
ﬂowing lines; the clever harness pomes,
and, above all, the superbly formed cham-
pion of 'champions, the heavy harness sul-
tana, “Seaton Pippin,” all won r1bbons and
acclaim with natural or docked tails. Only
the saddle classes and (save for. Seaton
Pippin) the harness horse classes dlspl'ayed,
by barbarous custom, the broken tall, as
much a monstrosity of fashion as bound
feet, cropped ears or saucer lips. To eyes
delighted by the smooth silhouette of the
jumpers, the unnatural outline brought not
admiration but displeasure. As soon as
broken tails cease to sell they will cease to
be inﬂicted upon horses. Brooklyn knows;
salute to Brooklyn. ' ~

——New York Herald Tribune

Since there are no dogs on the tiny
South Sea island of Borabora, most of the
children have baby pigs as pets.

 

“RED SQUIRRELS ARE OUR JOLLIEST AND NAUGHTIEST

ANIMAL NEIGHBORS”

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

         
  

 

/.
I | , »/' I

(/1 l xl”".//7 ’ ’ ,7' z ,, 4
: x4 /////,// /‘// , z ,

. . ,, // . ,5 '. , .
._:é-___, ,I‘,/r 4 t e r ’ x
.4. / ,. // ', . f, ‘ i -

I / , Vf’ . ' a I

Facing the Customs

To stop the shipping of old and worn-out
horses from England to the continent for
slaughter has long been sought by the Eng-

lish humane societies. This is what Punch

thinks of it.

Horsemen of the Forest

CONRAD O. PETERSON

ITH the exception of the far West,

the day of the lumberjack is gone.
There are a few logging camps in Upper
Michigan and Northern Wisconsin, but
these are growing less year by year.

As I have lived near these logging camps
for many years, I have noticed something
that interested me very much. That was
the teamsters, whose occupation was to
drive the teams of horses used in the many
different tasks to be done.

Now, according to the woods’ boss, a
teamster is not just any man who can hold
a rein behind a horse, but one who knows
a horse from A to Z. He must be able to
doctor a horse, because a horse will often
become sick, just as we sometimes do. In-
juries, often in the woods, must be taken
care of. Many of the teams are high-
spirited, and it takes an expert teamster
to handle them properly. Logs, brush, ra-
vines, creeks, etc., do not give teams and
teamsters a very easy time of it.

Many of the teamsters made a life job
of handling horses. When one camp closed
down, they moved to the next, always ap-
plying for the position of teamster.

I found that these men followed this
line of work, because they really loved and
understood horses. They took pride in the
appearance of their team, and in the
amount of work accomplished. Lucky were
the horses that received the care of a real
teamster. A horse is quick to show his de-
light and respect for one who treats him
kindly.

Most of these old horsemen are now scat-
tered in farming communities, still at the
same occupation of driving horses. I re-
spect these men highly because a man who
can love and understand a dumb animal,
will also have a good understanding of
the better things of life.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Say This of Horses

Across the ages they came thundering
On faithful hoofs, the horses man. disowns,
Their velvet eyes are wide with wondering,
They whinny down the wind in silver
tones
Vibrant with all the bugles of old wars;
Their nostrils quiver with the summer
scent ,
0f grasses in deep, fields lit by pale stars
Hung in a wide and silent ﬁrmament.
And in their hearts they keep the dreams of

earth
Their patient plodding furrowed to the
Sun ' _
Unnumbered springs before the engine’s
birth

Doomed them to sadness and oblivion.
Across the swift new day I watch them go
Driven by wheel and gear and dynamo.

Say this of horses; engines leave behind
No glorious legacy of waving manes
And wild proud hearts and heels before the
wind.
No heritage of ancient Arab strains
Blazes within a cylinder’s cold spark;
An engine labors with a sullen. ﬁre,
Hoarding no dreams of acres sweet and
dark;
No love for man has ever surged through
wire!
Along the farthest slopes I hear the rumble
Of these last hoofs—tomorrow they will
be still;
Then shall the strength of countless horses
crumble
The staunchest rock and level the highest
hill;
And man who made machines to gain an
hour
Shall lose himself before their ruthless
power.

MINNIE HITE MOODY in The Nation

Horses and Mules

From the American Horse Association

G OVERNMENT estimates for January
1, 1933, just released, report 12,163,-
000 horses and 4,981,000 mules. Between
January 1, 1920, and January 1, 1933, the
asinine craze for motor power has reduced
horse and mule population 8,938,552. The
reduction in animals actually at work was
probably not over 2,000,000 or 2,500,000
but fear that there would not be use or
demand for horses and mules kept men
from raising them. The result is that we
have now not over 2,500,000 horses and
mules under four years of age, out of a to-
tal of 17,144,000 head on farms—and hor-
ses and mules are higher today, measured in
corn, oats, wheat, beef, cattle, hogs, or dairy
products, than at any time in the- last ﬁf-
teen years.

In January, 1918, it took 54 bushels of
corn, 118 bushels of oats, 45 bushels of
wheat, 826 pounds of native beef cattle or
613 pounds of fat hogs, to buy a farm
chunk costing $100. In January, 1933, it
took 312 bushels of corn, 441 bushels of
oats, 153 bushels of wheat, 1,500 pounds
of native beef cattle, or 2,380 pounds of
fat hogs to buy the same kind of horse,
though his price in dollars had come down
to $75. All comparisons are from Chicago
open market prices, and the differences are

Apr. 1933

even greater in many localities.

The most sensible farm relief would come
through increasing use of horses and mules,
and production of them. A horse or mule
at work consumes annually about 70 bush-
els of oats, 15 or 20 bushels of corn, one
to one and one-half tons of hay and an acre
of pasture. This takes, roughly, the crops
from two and one-half to three acres of good
corn belt land, or four or ﬁve acres of less
productive land.

The decrease in horses and mules in the
last twelve years has thrown from 25,000,-
000 to 30,000,000 acres of land,——some
think it may be 40,000,000,—int0 the pro-
duction of more wheat, corn, oats, dairy
products, or meat animals—and has helped
to swell surplus to the present price break-
ing total.

At the End of the Trail

LOUISE MILLINGER

WAS walking along the street the other
11 day when an unsteady, faltering klip-
klop of horse’s feet on the pavement at-
tracted my attention. And then I saw them
coming. A Mexican man leading a horse.

The horse was scarcely larger than a
pony. His shaggy black coat was neatly
curried and his tail and mane were care-
fully brushed and trimmed. In fact he had
such a well-cared-for appearance that it
was only when he came quite near that I
saw that he was very, very old. His knees
were much enlarged, and it was with great
difﬁculty that he dragged his feet along.
His head was hanging as if it were too
heavy to hold up.

I stopped at the crossing to let them pass.
“What’s the matter with the old horse?”
I asked.

The Mexican looked up with a friendly
smile. “Nothing. He just old. He sick,”
he answered me.

I have had the rare privilege of knowing
and loving some very ﬁne horses, and this
old fellow was so unmistakably one that
had been much thought of and tenderly
cared for, that I could not resist another
question.

“Where are you taking him?”

“I take heem out on prairie, near river
I goin’ keel heem. He got twenty—eight,
1WVQI‘ItY-nine year now. I goin’ shoot him.”

He must have seen that I was intensely
interested for he added, “I shoot heem.
Shoot quick. No hurt.”

At sound of my voice, the 01d horse
lifted his head just a little, and, as he gave
it a feeble toss, he made a sound that was
neither a neigh nor a whinny. It was a very
old, cracked, tired and querulous sound
which seemed to say, “Who is this now, get-
ting in our way, stopping our progress?”

As he raised his head I saw that there
were grizzly, shaggy hairs around his eyes,
and the eye-balls were covered with a
white ﬁlm. Blind, old, crippled, and very,
very tired!

I watched the torturous progress down
the street. The Mexican was watchful at
the corners, and he was very careful not
to walk too fast. The prairie was fully a
mile away.

As I watched them out of sight the pain-
f‘ﬂ kliD-klop on the pavement seemed to
beat out the words, “Well done, thou good
and faithful servant!”

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

L———-—-

Page 100

cruelty is here in one of its many heart-
less forms? .

“Oh yes,” some one says, as is said of the
captive animals in the zoo, “how much bet-
ter off these creatures than in their native
haunts. Here they are no longer exposed
to the perils of the wild and are fed and
cared for.” Suppose it is true—(often it
is anything but true, for too often they are
neglected, badly fed and ill—treated)—-—let
us not forget that, like captives of the
zoo, they are prisoners. Gild your prison
and mine with ﬁnest gold if in prison you
must put us, feed us with choicest foods.
Would those gilded bars break the longing
of our natures for freedom, even freedom
to seek our own food, be it of the poorest,
and run our chances of hunger and attack?

Thousands pass these wayside places in-
dignant and repelled by the sight of the
unhappy victims of man’s indifference to
suffering. Some day enough public opinion
will be aroused to force the legislators of
our several states to banish from our high-
ways these sad sights. Let us not talk of
beautifying our great thoroughfares until
we free them from signs worse than all ad-
vertisements—the signs of cruelty.

Another Vicious Picture

New Orleans, La., May 21, 1933
Editor, Our Dumb Animals:

If space permits, allow the undersigned to
comment on an incident in a recent motion
picture, called “Sport Thrills,” with a well-
known radio announcer doing the talking.

A hunter kills a 1,200-pound bull moose
and every person who saw the kill will agree
that it was just like going in a ﬁeld and

shooting a fenced-in tame cow. As the

moose fell dead the announcer referring to
the killer, said: “He gets the nickel cigar!”
Such scenes should not be shown.
JOHN T. MENDES

 

Join the Jack London Club

The vicious and cruel exploitation of animals
can be boycotted from the public stage.

Send your name for enrolment to Our Dumb
Animals, 180 Longwood Ave., Boston.

 

 

 

 

THREE OF A KIND

Another sample of the photographic work of Mr. E. D.
Putnam, Antrim, N. H., to whom we are indebted for the
pleasmg frontispiece on this month’s cover, and the pic-
ture of the kittens on page 109.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

July, 1933

The Gentle Puma

FRANK WAIT HANFORD

sometimes called, is undoubtedly one

of the most maligned of all the so-called
savage beasts. Many of the early day
writers, more anxious to shoot than study
the animal, delighted in describing its feroc-
ity and innate savagel‘y, yet as a matter Of
fact there has never been an authenticated
case of a puma actually taking a human life.

This fact, on the other hand, has led
others to claim that the animal, unlike the
other members of the cat family, is by na-
ture cowardly.

Both of these suppositions have been prov-
ed to be wrong. The puma could not be
cowardly, for in South America where it
abounds, it seeks out and attacks its here-di-
tary enemy, the ferocious jaguar, at every
opportunity and is almost always the victor,
in spite of the fact that the latter animal
is both larger and heavier. The truth is
that the animal does not attack man
because it is afraid of him but because it
is actually a friend of man. Mr. W. H.
Hudson, the famous naturalist, on a trip
to South America, not only proved this
conclusively but found out that it will not
even defend itself against man.

This mysterious, gentle instinct of this
member of the usually ungentle species,
has caused the gauchos of the great plains
of the Argentine to Christen it “Amigo del
Christiano,” friend of man. In fact, it is
considered so harmless that it is even
thought perfectly safe for small children
to sleep out on the plains at night.

Many stories are told of this strange
quality of the animal. In one of them a
young Englishman, who had gone to South
America to live when quite young, told of
once killing a puma but declared afterwards
he would never kill another.

He had been out looking for stray cattle
with another gaucho when they came across
a puma sitting with its back against a
large boulder. To their surprise the animal
did not move as they ap-
proached, even remaining
motionless as they threw a
lasso around its neck. The
Englishman then dismounted
and drawing his knife, ad-
vanced to kill it. The poor
beast seemed to divine his
intentions, for as he drew
near it began to tremble and
whine in a pitiful manner,
yet made not the slightest
attempt to defend itself.
The man nerved himself to
do the deed as it sat unre-
sisting before him but after-
wards said he felt like a
murderer—that it ﬁlled him
with greater remorse than
anything he had ever done.

Another true incident well
worth recording, relates to
a party of hunters who had
ridden out in quest of game
and on their return found
the horse of one of the mem-
bers already there but its
master missing. A search
was instituted the following
morning and the man was

T HE puma, or lion of America, as it is

eventually found lying on the ground in a
clump of brush, with a broken leg. He
told a most interesting story of how, as
darkness approached, a large puma ap-
peared and sat on its haunches a short dis-
tance away. It made no attempt to move
nearer, in fact seemed not to notice him at
all. As evening came on, the animal grew
restless, frequently leaving and then re-
turning until at last it stayed away so
long, he thought it had left for good.

Shortly afterwards there came the fear-
some roar of a savage jaguar and the man
gave himself up for lost. As he waited in
horror he was conscious of a rustling in
the brush close by and then saw the out-
line of the puma’s body as it crept stealthily
in the direction of the jaguar.

The next instant there came the snarls
and growls of the two animals locked in
mortal combat. This lasted some minutes
and then came silence. The jaguar had been
beaten off. Hardly, however, had the man
ﬁnished congratulating himself on his
lucky escape when the jaguar returned and
the battle was renewed. This happend
several times during the course of the night,
but on each occasion the puma was the
victor. With the coming of daylight the
sounds of conﬂict ceased, but when the man
looked around for a glimpse of the puma,
he found that his faithful protector, as well
as the jaguar, had vanished.

Tigers not Man-Eaters
L. E. EUBANKS

NOWN to be particularly ferocious

in conﬂict with other wild animals,
the tiger is commonly regarded as highly
dangerous to man. But there is little to
conﬁrm this popular impression. Those
who have been in position to know say that
it is rare indeed for a tiger to attack a
person without strong provocation. One of
the best-known explorers of the Malay
Peninsula tells of coming suddenly upon a
tigress and her two cubs.

There is only one type of man-eating
tiger—those who have tasted human ﬂesh
through a hunger necessity; and they do
not usually last long, for they are hunted
down and killed by government order.

It is signiﬁcant that almost invariably
these man killers are old tigers, too feeble
or too much maimed from years of forest
conﬂicts with other wild creatures to secure
food as they did when young and strong.
The able-bodied tiger prefers to go after
a deer, but that often requires more speed,
endurance and pluck than the old fellow
has; so, in the extremes of hunger, he ﬁn-
ally pulls down some native, and is then
called a man-eater.

Every wild animal has its favorite food,
and I doubt that in any case human ﬂesh
is the natural preference. Only the occa-
sional animal, whose appetite has been per-
verted as described, would ever “special-
ize” on man’s ﬂesh.

Further, we have the fact that virtually
all animals fear man—possibly as man
fears them. A man would rather ﬁght any
other man than mix, unarmed, with a tiger;
and I suspect that a tiger would rather
ﬁght his own kind than attack a man.

 

 

 

1
l
l
1,

—. e __<_.g___

 

" ‘é— —-—-‘ -M3r .--.——~;_.=,._~ .._—.—-. xv»? -._-_

 




 

Jan. 1933

Animals in Granada
KADRA MAYSI

0 one who loves animals and also loves

the Spaniards, it must appear that ig-
norance and poverty are the two principal
explanations—although Vnot excuses—for
most of the cruelty to animals in Spain. I am
speaking of the peasants and other work-
ing people. Among the aristocracy, with the
exception of bull-ﬁghting and docking of
horses’ tails, animals seem to-be as much
petted and as well cared for as in any other
country. But the work-horses, mules, and
burros, and the street dogs and cats, have
been, in every place I have visited, over-
worked, underfed, ill-cared for, and often
ill-treated.

Here in Granada, pack animals toil all
day long up the two steep mountains of
the city. They carry such terriﬁc loads that
one can plainly see their straining muscles
and slipping feet. Fully ﬁfty per cent of
them are lame. Sometimes it is a stiff
shoulder, a dragging hind leg, or a blem-
ished knee. Sometimes the trouble can be
detected in a little, broken, badly—shod hoof.
None of them are shod with heels, so they
have no grip upon the stones. The big,
beautiful gray horses ridden by policemen
in the fashionable quarters of the city, a
few Arabian saddle-horses, and one team
of draft mules, are the only equines I have
yet seen which appeared to get enough to
eat. But on they go, with enormous baskets
of earth, with packs of ﬁrewood several
times as large as themselves, or with six
or eight great containers of water strapped
across the prominent ridge of backbone over
their thin bodies. Most of them wear no
bridles, only halters, I am glad to say;
and the goads seem to be no more than
light switches. But, yesterday, I saw a
boy, after repeatedly whipping an over-
laden and limping white donkey, deliber-
ately kick it several times. Standing at that
same corner, waiting for a car (for I ﬂatly
refuse to ride in carriages drawn by thin,
docked horses) I watched a string of bur-
ros, undeniably overladen and barely able
to creep along, turn slowly up the steep
street leading to the Alhambra. Their dri-
ver walked beside them slowly. He did
not urge them, and he appeared to be ut-
terly worn out himself. Behind him and his
little caravan came a small, slight man,
carrying upon his head an enormous sew-
ing machine—not a small, electric ﬁxture,
but a full—sized piece
of furniture which
stands upon the ﬂoor
and is worked by foot.

Poverty! B i t t e r,
cruel, drudging pov-
erty! When a man
has to carry a sewing
machine upon his own
head, he is naturally,
going to load his beast
in that proportion.
When a man has to
rise at 2 A. M. to
plow his ﬁeld and,
with the exception of
a hasty breakfast and
of one hour for din-
ner and siesta, to
work until night stops
his work, he is, natur-

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Page 11

    

MW

MRS. WOODS’ TRUCK AND CAR EN ROUTE SOMEWHERE IN IOWA

 

ally, going to work his beast in the same
proportion. No; poverty is no excuse for
cruelty. But it is an explanation. I truly
believe that the average peasant is as over—
worked and as underfed as are the pitiful
animals whom I pity with all my heart.
While I still blame the man for inhumanity,
I cannot but realize its cause and I cannot
pity him less than I pity his animal.

For the other explanation: ignorance.
These Spanish peasants have been for cen-
turies under absolute control of their
Church. It has taught them many beauti-
ful things. It has taught them love, laugh—
ter, kindliness, courtesy, honesty. Why has
it not taught them to include animals as
well as people in bestowing those gifts? To
me that is the riddle of Spain. I, myself,
am too ignorant to solve it. I wonder whe-
ther, and I hope that, with emancipation
brought by the republic, they may begin
to think for themselves and that their four-

footed population may beneﬁt thereby. If

the Mentor which has shaped their lives and
thoughts for generations has allowed them
to adopt and ﬁx this attitude toward ani-
mals, the greater blame must rest with that
Mentor.

The newt has a means of defense as good
as that of the skunk or the porcupine,—a
disagreable secretion which cause-s any ani—
mal to repent as soon as the newt is taken
into the mouth.

More friends are needed to endow stalls
and new kennels in the Angell Memorial
Animal Hospital. Payments of thirty-ﬁve
dollars for a kennel or seventy-ﬁve dol-
lars for a stall will insure a suitable
marker inscribed with donor’s name. Terms
of permanent endowment of free stalls
and kennels will be given upon application
to the Massachusetts S. P. C. A., 180 Long-

wood Avenue, Boston.

 

THE COVERED WAGON—PONY EXPRESS

From Coast to Coast

RANCES NEWHALL WOODS started

shipping ponies by express in 1906,
and has shipped-horses repeatedly between
California and Massachusetts since. In
fact she had her private express car senton
the limited train and had permits to visit
the car from her drawing-room to her
twelve horses en route.

After spending the winter in Wellesley
and enjoying sleigh riding, she returned to
her ranch, “The Hawthornes,” Redwood
City, and in a week’s time motored back to
Massachusetts with her son, Fred III, in the
horse truck with two of her German shep-
ard dogs. She spent two weeks at her farm
on Martha’s Vineyard Island, then started
West, taking back two saddle horses with
the dogs, in the truck. She also drove the
little Austin car of her younger son, New-
hall, making quite a contrast in size with the
27-foot Pierce-Arrow truck. Once, in Illi-
nois, the Austin towed the truck, horses
and all, for several blocks.

It was quite an adventure and experience
for the boy. Mrs. Woods and Fred every
night, unloaded the horses, “Daffodil” and
“Happy”, who rolled, then ate, and rested.

They encountered rain and wind, temp—
ests and sand storms, mud and dust, but
there was a canvas top, and the horses kept
cozy and dry. Twice Mrs. Woods made hot
bran mashes for Daffodil and Happy at
2 and 4 A.M. 4

They drove slowly, covering about 250
miles a day. Not a puncture with the truck
tires, for over 8,000 miles.

The dogs were interested in Niagara
Falls, and the horses sniffed at Great Salt
Lake. ‘ .

Only alfalfa hay could be secured in
Utah. These Eastern horses were not used
to such feed, so Mrs. Woodsmixed straw
with the alfalfa for the ﬁrst few feedings.
She had hoods, double blankets, knee pads
and bandages, for necessity.

The live stock reached California in per-
fect condition, the dogs overjoyed to be back
on the ranch, and “The Covered Wagon—
Pony Express,” at its journey’s end. .

They stopped at Angell Animal Hospltial,
Longwood Avenue, to secure a health certiﬁ-
cate for the animals upon leaving Boston
with the truck.

Happy has already won a cup and blue
ribbon in the “Trotting Race Under Saddle”
class at the San Matio Gymkhana.

Gulls, according to bird banding evi-
dences, do not seem to indulge in true migra-
tory ﬂights, some even ﬂying north in win-
ter while others remain in their permanent
latitudes, and they sometimes travel from
the Great . Lakes to Florida, Texas, and
points south. ' '

 




 

 

 

 

 

Page 10

GLORY TO
GOD,
PEACE ON EARTH,

AND MERCY 'ro
EVERY LIVING
CREATURE.

 

Founded by Geo. T. Angel]. Incorporated, 1889

For rates of membership in both of our Societies
see back cover. Checks should be made payable to
Treasurer.

Ofﬁcers of the American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds
JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman, Chase Harris Forbes
Corporation
CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President, United Shoe
Machinery Corporation

PHILIP STOCKTON, President, First National Bank of
Boston

Foreign Corresponding Representatives

George B. Duff .................. Australia

Nicasio Zulaica C ................ Chile

Charles A. Williams ............ France

Luis Pareja Cornejo ............ Ecuador

Leonard T. Hawksley ............ Italy

Mrs. Mary P. E. Nitobe .......... Japan

Mrs. Marie C. E. Houghton ...... Madeira

Dr. A. T. Ishkanian ............. Mexico

Luther Parker ................... Philippine Islands
Joaquin Julia .................... Spain

Rida Himadi ..................... Lebanon and Syria
Mrs. Alice W. Manning .......... Turkey

Humane Press Bureau
Address, 180 Longwood Ave., Boston

Field Workers of the Society

Mrs. Alice L. Park, Palo Alto, California
Mrs. Rachel C. Hogue, San Diego, California
Mrs. Jennie R. Nichols, Tacoma, Washington
James D. Burton, Oakdale, Tennessee

Mrs. Katharine Weathersbee, Atlanta, Georgia
Rev. F. Rivers Barnwell, Fort Worth, Texas
Miss Blanche Finley, Richmond, Virginia
Rev. John W. Lemon, Ark, Virginia

Miss Lucia F. Gilbert, Boston, Massachusetts
Mrs. Jennie R. Toomim, Chicago, Illinois
Seymour Carroll, Columbia, S. C.

Field Representative
Wm. F. H. Wentzell, M.S., Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

Field Lecturers in Massachusetts
Ella A. Maryott L. Raymond Talbot

The Builder vs. the Wrecker

I watched them tearing a building down—

A gang of men in a busy town;

With a “Ho heave Ho” and a lusty yell

They swung a beam and the side wall fell;

I asked the foreman, “Are these men
skilled?”

And the kind you would hire if you were
to build?”

He laughed and said, “Why, no indeed,

Just common laborers is all I need;

They can easily wreck in a day or two

That which has taken builders years to do.”

So I said to myself, as I went on my way,

What part in the game of life do I play,

Am I shaping my deeds to a well made plan,

Carefully measuring with a rule and square,

Patiently doing the very best that I can,

Or am I a wrecker—who walks the town—

Content with the labor of tearing down.-

AUTHOR UNKNOWN

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

«A

Monthly Report from Fez

HE photograph shows an interior View
T of the Fondouk. In the background the
new addition can be seen.

We have now been nearly three years
occupying the New Fondouk, longer than
the entire existence of the Fondouk origi-
nally rented by us. The third year records
the building of the new shelters which con-
nect, the two wings of the 1929 construc-
tion. The entire expense of this completion
of the building has been borne by Mrs.
Cortland F. Bishop that the Memorial to
her mother should sufﬁce in capacity always.

Despite the ﬁnancial conditions of 1931-
32, our subscriptions have been generous
and continuous, although not sufﬁcient to
cover the monthly appropriation of $500
for the upkeep expenses by the Executive
Committee.

From visitors to the Fondouk who made
or did not make any donation, we have re-
ceived such expressions of enthusiastic
praise as to ﬁll the personnel with ever in-
creasing interest and care, and to the Com-
mittee members among these visitors equally
increased faith that funds would be forth-
coming.

The scope of the work has so expanded
that it seems to visitors now as if the Fon-
douk had become like an ofﬁcial city Hospi-

 

tal for animals, administered as if for
humans.
Monthly Expense Account
October—31 Days
Daily average, large animals 85.1
Forage for same $152.72
Daily average, dogs 14.1
Forage for same 8.66
Put to sleep 21 6.88
Transportation 5.04
Wages, grooms, etc. 71.89
Inspector’s wages 17.72
Supt.’s salary 98.42
Asst.’s salary 49.22
Veterinary’s salary 15.74
Motor allowance 9.84
Sundries 31.45
$467.58

Entries: Horses, 14; mules, 21; donkeys, 69; bulls,
2; camel, .

Exits: Horses, 12; mules, 18; donkeys, 38.

Superintendent’s Notes: The new building can be
occupied by November 15.

85.1 is the biggest average of large animals We
have ever had.

Visits to native fondouks: 293 fondouks Visited;
6,594 animals seen; 1,913 animals treated; 72 animals

sent 1n.

The star Sirius, which appeared at the
annual overﬂowing of the Nile river, the
sight of which started the ancient Egypt-
ians moving their ﬂocks to higher pastures,
was called by them the Dog Star because
it seemed to show the friendly watchful-
ness and ﬁdelity of the dog.

 

Jan. 1933

Annual Fair

of Auxiliary

NFORTUNATELY,

Thursday, November 10,
the date set for the annual Fair
and Hospitality Day of the
Women’s Auxiliary of the
Massachusetts S. P. C. A., was
one of the stormiest days of the
season and consequently seri-
ously affected the attendance.
For this reason, the Fair was
held over on the-following day,
and the proceeds were all that
could be expected under the ad-’
verse circumstances.

Never before had the rooms at 180 Long—
wood Avenue been so attractively decorated
for a similar occasion. There was a “wis-
taria” cafeteria, a “tulip” room for sales
tables, and a “rose garden” for the after-
noon bridge. Palms, vines and trellises
adorned the corridors, so that the visitors
were immediately ushered into an atmos-
phere of ﬂowers and beauty.

Too much cannot be said of the loyalty of
the ofﬁce-rs and their numerous committees
who responded to the duties of the day
despite the inclement weather. We con-
gratulate, and heartily thank, Mrs. Edith
Washburn Clarke, president, and every one
who contributed in any way to the success
of the undertaking.

A Letter
The Cost of One Man’s Cruelty

A couple of months ago, a heartless tour-
ist left his sick dog by the roadside in Kent,
a town adjacent to Seattle, and sped on, in
pursuit of pleasure, unheeding his dog’s
cry for mercy.

The dog developed rabies and was shot,
but the mischief had already been done.
Other dogs had been attacked. Strange dogs
wandered into Seattle, bringing the disease.
Many were picked up and kept under sus-
picion at the Humane headquarters‘and,
later, were obliged to forfeit their lives.
Men and children were bitten on the street,
and immediately given the Pasteur treat-
ment. .

All dogs were ordered by the mayor to be
vaccinated at a cost of a dollar and a half.
Owing to the ﬁnancial depression, this was
impossible. Children must be fed! The
order was modiﬁed. Dogs that were fortu-
nate enough to be born with a silver spoon
in their mouth, were vaccinated, tagged
with a brass medal the size of a silver dol-
lar, and given their freedom, while the less
fortunate ones were chained, and, if loos-
ened for a good reason, were muzzled.
Sometimes they broke their leash, like the
terrier that came to my door thisweek,
dragging a six-foot chain.

Up to date, over a hundred cases have
had the Pasteur treatment and the scare
seems to be blowing over, but many people
have lost their valuable dog friends and all
because of one man’s inhuman treatment.

GRACE C. BETTS

Every square rod of the ﬁelds and woods
is crowded with life, but only he who seeks
ﬁnds

 

 




 

 

 

 

J1 ay, 19.37;} 0 U It I) U M B A N 1 J1 A L S

Page 77’

A Prayer

KARL FLASTER

The Cow in Life and Literature

ALETHEA M. BONNER

 

 

 

 

 

 

' F the many friendly and faithful ani-
mals that serve mankind none con—
tributes to human comfort and wel—

fare in such genero‘us measure as does the
versatile and companionable cow.

Its line of descent, probably from the
prehistoric and powerful bison, has an in—
deﬁnite tracing, and the origin of most of
the modern breeds of cattle is rather ob-
scure. We do know, however, that the do-
mestic animal’s record of faithful service
to humanity dates back to the beginning
of history, while rudely carved pictures on
the ancient monuments of Egypt prove a
preface to such recorded chapters of use-
ful service.

Biblical annals, too, are replete with re-
ferences: there was the “golden calf” of
the Children of Israel, which proved an ill-
favored idol to these pilgrims in their jour-
neyings to a “Promised Land,” ﬂowing with
milk and honey. And, prior to this, came
Joseph’s prophetic dream of “seven fat kine
and seven lean,” with the respective years
of plenty and famine following. A still ear-
lier reference testiﬁes to the fact that the
patriarch Abraham served butter and milk,
with other food, to the angel, who visited
him in the plains of Mamre in the year
1898 B. C.

Although there were no cattle in North
America when the continent was ﬁrst ex-
plored by White men, yet with the bring-
ing of herds from Europe by the early set—
tlers, the sturdy animals played an import-
ant part in promoting the progress of the
new country. Oxen toiled with the pioneers
in clearing and breaking farm lands; they
drew the “prairie schooners” into the un-
explored west, when “Westward Ho!” was
the cry of young America; and, even today,
in many countries, the sled, the cart and
the plow are still oxen—drawn.

Considered a sacred animal in India, a
cow is never killed but is permited to live
out its natural life, some twenty years be-
ing considered an unusually ripe old age.
Such animal worship began in Egypt at
an early time, and, according to the peoples
of antiquity, all the good spirits in the
world were cows. Mythology emphasizes
in countless legends the sacred regard in

which the creature was held by the anci—
ents. For example, in the story of the sower
of the dragon’s teeth, Cadmus—he who
sought his sister Europa carried away by
Jupiter, under the disguise of a snow—white
bull—this brave son of Agenor was in-
structed by an oracle to follow the wander-
ings of a cow, and where she stopped there
should be builded a city—Thebes it was.

Realizing, as one does, that there is more
poetry than truth in the familiar Mother
Goose rhyme: “Hey diddle diddle, the cat
and the ﬁddle;" the cow jumped over the
moon,” yet in astronomy are terms that lead
one to connect the cow with the shining orb
in question. There is the “Milky Way,”
that luminous path of stars in the night
sky, named in honor of the kindly cow;
while the English term for the northern con-
stellation is Taurus or “the Bull,” a name
signiﬁcant with the leader of a herd guid-
ing star—cows across the skyland pasture.

In music and art the cow ﬁnds ﬁtting
place. The great Mozart composing an ef-
fective “Oxen Waltz”; a representative
painting of work-cattle is Rosa Bonheur’s
“Ploughing in the Nivernais,” which hangs
in the Luxembourg Gallery at Paris; while
a pleasing picture of placid contentment
is presented on Nature’s cinema screen when
one sees grouped, alongside some grass-
bordered brook, a herd of these gentle,
cud-chewing creatures. Bells about the necks
of certain of the animals add their tinkling
tones, and further sounds are synchronized
in the low-voiced “moos” of the mother cows
as they perchance speak to frolicsome calves
near by.

Providing man with life-sustaining milk
and its nourishing by-p‘roducts, butter and

cheese; also furnishing meat, leather and

other commodities, together With the 'giVing
of her great strength to patient services of
labor, the cow richly deserves all the words
of commendation that we heap upon her.
The reason a cow turns her broad square
head to the storm and the horse turns his
solid buttocks and tail is because each
adopts the plan best suited to its needs and

its anatomy, in order to resist storm and
cold. '

I pray to God that when I face the Seat,

From whence all Mercy ﬂows, at those dear
Feet,

That some dumb creature there, with faith-
ful eyes,
May hold me not unﬁt for Paradise—

That some lean mongrel, with a drooping

tail,

Will know me friend and, knowing, cease to
quad;

That some poor, broken nag will nose my
hand,

Remembering kindness in that Other Land—

Some alley-cat will rub my leg, and mew,

In gratitude to the one friend it knew:

Small thing, it seems, and yet—if this can
be,

I shall go singing through Eternity!

Caging Wild Life

When I was a boy in Carolina I was cured
forever of caging wild things. Not content
with hearing mockingbirds sing from the
cedars, I determined to cage a young one
and thus have a young musician all my own.

On his second day in the cage, I saw his
mother ﬂy to him with food in her bill.
This attention pleased me, for surely the
mother knew how to feed her child better
than I did. The following morning my
pathetic little captive was dead. When I
recounted this experience to Arthur Wayne,
the renowned ornithologist, he said:

“A mother mockingbird, ﬁnding her young
in a cage, will sometimes take it poisoned
berries. She thinks it is better for one she
loves to die rather than to live in captivity.”

ARCHIBALD RUTLEDGE in. Good Housekeeping

Nature has given to her creatures the
special tools that each kind needs in order
to live, some of these special appliances be-
ing knives and chisels in the teeth of the
beaver, drills in- the beaks of woodpeckers,
shears in the mandibles of leaf-cutters, bas-
kets for the bees to carry on their hips,
stilts for wading birds, spears for ﬁsh-eat-
ing birds, and so forth.

 

, FINE AYRSHIRES ON STRATHGLASS FARM,

Courtesy of The Ayrshire Digest

OWNED BY HUGH J. CHISHOLM, PORT CHESTER, N. Y.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 102

Horse Nobly Returns to Soil with Man

C. M. LITTELJOHN

EDITOR’S NOTE:

The only regret that anyone can feel at a return
of the horse to something like his former status. Is
that he might again suffer the ill-treatment which
was often his former lot, growing out of overloadlng
and improper care. There is little question, however,
that he will ever be asked to do anything like the
amount of that tremendously heavy work now done by
the great motor trucks, especially in the hauling of
coal and other excessively heavy material.

ENAISSANCE of the Horse is wit-
Rnessed in the steady “back to the

land” movement now under way in
numerous localities, whereas in the Paciﬁc
Northwest, with its fertile valleys for dairy—
ing, berrying, raising produce and general
farming, the horse accompanies man in his
return from cities to the soil.

Thousands of jobless are forsaking the
congested communities for sustaining acre-
age and even large-scale farming outside
the cities of their distress, and to aid in
this movement, do the plowing and various
chores about the farm, the horse again
comes into his own as Nature’s right—hand
animal and man’s best friend in need.

Horses in the past two years of this de-
pression have re-appeared with constant
frequency on many outlying farms through-
out the country. There they help the farmer
help himself in this period of economic
extremity. Government statistics estimate
for the ﬁrst of the current year that there
were 12,163,000 horses on farms; and the
demand grows steadily stronger as 1933
progresses.

It behooves, therefore, those now relying
upon a veritable savior of the soil to learn
more thoroughly how to appreciate an ani-
mal giving him a new lease of life, how to
be kind; how to feed and care for him as
an individual, exercise him properly with-
out strain, and tend him carefully in ill-
ness. The horse may yet perform a greater
service in putting more generally the “kind”
back once more in mankind.

The same as man, he requires his three
square meals a day, munching breakfast,
dinner and supper at regular intervals——
with the largest meal in the evening. Where
a horse may be properly fed on twelve
pounds of oats, barley and corn a day, and
fourteen pounds of hay, the latter as a rule
is not usually fed in the morning. Three
pounds of grain may compose the break-
fast, four at noon, and ﬁve at night. Bran
a couple of times a week is also fed stabled
horses, and a lump of rock salt is kept for
tasty, healthful licking.

Those taking real pride in preparing re-
pasts for their horses, and having the desire
to keep them well and happy, in tender
solicitude shake the hay carefully with a
fork before feeding in order to free it from
dust and seed, while they screen the grain
or let it slowly fall through the air, for
the same purpose.

They realize that a horse, like a human
being, is not entirely “average,” and that
the same amount of food is not taken by
each, but must be adjusted to individual
requirements, depending on the appetite,
amount of work, exercise, or other factors.
As to exercise, each horse requires a cer-
tain number of hours daily, but not an
undue portion. The correct amount of
phys1ca1 exertion, without strain, is bene-
ﬁcial to man no less than his horse, but

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

this needs to be carefully apportioned.

Wherever possible, the horse should
be allowed to roam in pasture, and
consume his natural food—succulent,
green grass.

Domestication of the horse, it is
believed, was the initial step into com-
munity life. Harnessing the horse to
a multiplicity of uses dates from the
very dawn of civilization itself, when
horses ran free in happy bands, rov-
ing and grazing over grassy upland
stretches in Northern Africa, Asia,
and the open country of Europe.

Too much cannot be learned of the
daily care of these animals, their
feeds and needs, comfortable stabling
and healthful tending by their owners.
In a number of ways the horse is
distinct from all other animals in the
world. Presumption of the automobile
to supplant him has proved a failure.
He has ably demonstrated that his
place cannot be usurped by mechani-
cal or industrial “progress,” so-called;

 

July, 1933

FRIENDLY GREETINGS

 

nor by any other animal or agency.

It is high time to accord him the place
he so richly deserves for his many inimi-
table qualities of nobility, for he, it should
be remembered, has ever been regarded as
the most beautiful and useful acquisition
of man within the domain of the animal
kingdom.

My “ Easy-to-Keep” Team
WILLIS MEHANNA

My team of horses have to do much hard
work but I never strike or jerk them.
Last winter I hired a neighbor boy to bring
his team of horses and help me haul up
logs to the saw-mill. He had a good, big
team but was rough with them. He noticed
that my team, though smaller, did as much
work as his and kept fat on less food. He
ﬁnally asked the reason.

I enlightened him to the extent of telling
him that if he wished to prolong the life,
usefulness and beauty of his horses, he must
give them gentler treatment; that jerking
and whipping horses usually used them up
worse than work did; that kind treatment
would save feed and increase the useful-
ness and good looks of any team. The lad
listened to me and promised to put my sug-
gestions into practice. In a few weeks his

team began to improve and look somewhat
better.

In South American waters there is a long
snake-like eel which has an electric appara—
tus on the underside of the tail with which
it can stun an animal as large as a horse.

In the stage when the tadpole is growing
hind legs, if by chance a leg is nipped off,
another will grow in its place, the exact
counterpart of the one lost.

Nature provided an excellent labor-saver
in Sumatra in the climbing apes which are
trained to pick cocoanuts, when directed by
their owners who stand under the trees and
guide their animals by jerks on the rope,
and by calls.

A Clever Horse

E saw recently in a Lubec, Maine,

paper an extraordinary account of a
horse named “John” who maneuvered his
wagon on a wharf close to the water’s edge
in a way to indicate unusual intelligence.
We wrote to the wharf master who gladly
veriﬁed the story. We give it in part:

When it comes down on the wharf, af-
ter unloading, without any comment from
King, his driver, the horse will go out to
the edge of the wharf, stop, and then of its
own accord, back and ﬁll until it has the
truck suﬂiciently turned, to swing out,
and come back to its original location. It
does not always get in the same spot out
on the wharf, and apparently comes to
some conclusions of its own, as if there
seems to be insufﬁcient room to turn, it
will stand still, but look around for instruc-
tions. If it is located all right, King just
calls to it to back up, and it will do the
rest.

This can be seen by anyone as it hap-
pens several times a day.

When going with, or after, the mail to
the post-ofﬁce, they swing down to the
left in front of the Seacoast ofﬁces, and
back of the Staples building to come out
of the alley way between the Staples build-
ing and the post-ofﬁce. With the mail
aboard, or on the mail trips, without any
guiding the horse makes these turns. With
ordinary freight in the regular routine,
the horse never attempts to make the mail
turns.

The horse seems to be very high strung,
but with kind treatment is very easy to
teach.

I omitted to state above that when the
tide is down, the edge of the wharf where
the horse makes the turns is about 20 feet
down to the beach. Also I omitted to state
that King does not go to the horse’s head
to guide it, but directs it from the opposite
side of the wharf, perhaps ﬁfty feet dis-
tant. Yours truly,

RALPH HINDLEY

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 126
@112 lﬁanh nf merry

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

E. A. MARYOTT, State Organizer
PLEDGE

I will try to be kind to all living creatures and
try to protect them from cruel usage.

The American Humane Education Society will send
to every person who forms a Band of Mercy of thlrty
members, and sends the name chosen for the Band and
the name and post-oﬂice address of the president who
has been duly elected, special Band of Mercy literature

and a gilt badge for the president. .
See inside front cover for prices of literature and

Band of Mercy supplies.
NEW BANDS OF MERCY

Two hundred and seventy-two new Bands
of Mercy were reported during June. Of
these, 94 were in Illinois, 62 in Vermont, 58
in Massachusetts, 47 in Rhode Island, ﬁve
in Virginia, four in Georgia, and two in
Pennsylvania.

Total number Bands of Mercy organized
by Parent American Society, 196,158.

Senator Schall and His Dog

OT since the classic “Eulogy” pro-

nounced in the Missouri Circuit Court
in 1870 by U. S. Senator George G. Vest
has there been so touching a tribute paid
to the dog by a member of Congress as that
which appears in the Congressional Record
of May 23 last, where the blind Senator
Thomas D. Schall of Minnesota tells the
story of “LuX,” the German shepherd which
had been his constant guide and companion.
It seems that Senator Schall thought it in-
appropriate to take the dog with him on
Senator Walsh’s funeral cortege and as a
result of the separation LuX pined away
and died. We regret that space is not
available for reprinting many more of
Senator Schall’s memorable words:

“He was indeed my ‘light,’ my eyes! No
man could have served me better. The mem—
ory of him will temper the chill snows of
life’s coming winter, and smooth the fur-
rowed brow with gentle thought. The heart
will quicken its slackened beat, though near
the verge of the silent grave, when the re-
ﬂection of his aging master dwells on that
fugitive but pleasant span of former life-—
that time when Lux did honorable duty, not
only as a guide but as a companion and
friend. * * *

“Lux was so completely mine! None but

the blind will understand the whole of what
I mean; none but those who have come to
cherish a deeper love for the ever-hidden
sun; none but they who have ‘wandered
lonely as a cloud.’ * * *
. “The kindliest of seeing persons grow
irked at .waiting; but Lux would gladly
await my pleasure through long hours,
without food, drink, or movement—a patient
sentinel at my feet. * * *

“I cannot wonder, since I have known
I.ux, that in medieval monuments the dog
IS placed at the feet of women as symbolic
of affection and ﬁdelity, and seen as a rest
for the mailed feet of crusaders. * * *

“I cannot say too much for Lux, for he
laid down his life for me, his friend; and
well his story pleads the cause
“ ‘Of those dumb mouths that have no

speech.’ ”

Do not forget that in hot weather all
domestic ammals need a plentiful supply
of water easily available.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

“ Breakfast ”

ETHELYN ADELAIDE DANIEL

HE was only a little bay mare with a

leg out of shape from having it broken
years ago, and although somewhat impaired
by being crippled she proved to be the gam-
est little horse in our town. She having
spent the best years of her life out on her
master’s ranch, and believing she had out-
lived her years of usefulness, he had decided
to bring “Breakfast” to town that morning
and sell her to the circus menagerie.

It was a hot morning in July. The big
circus was in town with its yellow wagons
and banners flying. Her master was there
bright and early with Breakfast negotiat-
ing the sale, and Breakfast was soon sold
to be served as breakfast to A1 Barnes’s
family of hungry lions the next morning.

The big horse car stood waiting on the
tracks for its load of freight for the trip
that evening to the next stop. As they
started to lead little Breakfast to the wait—
ing car door she stoutly refused to be led
by the gangway into the car. To all en-
treaties and pleadings Breakfast steadfastly
stood her ground. As she struggled fran-
tically for her life, a team of circus draft-
horses dragged her to the waiting car door
and, although blindfolded, chained and
beaten, she plunged from the gangway and
could not be pulled or pushed inside the car.
“That’s the ﬁghtin’est bit of horse ﬂesh that
was ever seen here,” the circus men de-
clared, baffled with all their facilities for
loading animals, wild and tame.

Breakfast’s desperate battle against over-
whelming odds soon
aroused a large crowd
of onlookers; s o m e
through pity, others
from curiosity. Seeing
the crowd, we came up
to see what the excite-
ment was. At a glance
my heart was touched
with pity. Love for our
horse, the most faithful
of our dumb animals,
stirred my heart, and
stepping forward I ad—
dressed the foreman.
“Mister, don’t strike
that poor little animal
another lick. What will
you take for her?” I
spoke without a mo-
ment’s thought for I
knew I had no more
use for a horse than an
elephant. My 0 n 1 y
thought was pity for
God’s dumb animal. I
could not see her mis-
treated any more as she
stood, trembling and
bleeding from her nu-
merous cuts and bruises.
Handing him the $10
which he asked, I took
Breakfast home with
no idea what I could
do with her. A happy
thought came to my
rescue, my friend’s love-
ly mountain r a n c h,
there was where I
would take Breakfast.

 

Aug. 1933

The following Sunday Breakfast was
taken to the ranch to spend the rest of her
days “in clover.”

Breakfast is now living happily the re-
mainder of her days, as do most heroines of
ﬁction and sometimes those in real life, on a
lovely mountain hillside, drinking from cool
sparkling springs that course down the
mountain sides and enjoying life as only a
well—cared for animal can. My fondest wish,
as well as those of her most ardent ad-
mirers, has come true, and today, Break-
fast—the gamest little» horse of our town,
Pueblo, is roaming those ﬁelds at her will
because she was too game to be the early
morning breakfast for Al Barnes’s hungry
family of lions.

And Breakfast, game as she was, taught
a lesson to show our dumb animals kind-
ness whenever possible to do so, remem-
bering they are placed in our care and for
our protection. When Breakfast, fat and
with shining coat, with a sassy toss of her
head comes to greet me on my visits to the
ranch, I am repaid many times when those
pretty intelligent eyes of hers seem to speak
gratitude.

As I see her leisurely making her way to
the shady creek for a drink, or munching
those long tufts of grass which are hers, I
am made happy with ‘a conscience for right
doing; for sparing one of God’s dumb ani-
mals—our horse—the most patient and use-
ful of animals, suffering and anguish from
abuse.

The raccoon is a strictly American ani-
mal, native to no other part of the world.

AN UNDERSTANDING FRIENDSHIP

 




 

Jan. 1933

Bird Banding

JOHN H. JOLLIEF

INCE 1803, when Audubon use-d silver

wire to band a brood of phoebes and
fortunately received two returns, bird band-
ing in America has been a very interesting
outdoor pastime for hundreds of nature
lovers. Though the migration of birds has
attracted the attention for many years yet
it is within only recent times that much
attention has been given to their other
habits. Today bird banding is under gov-
ernment supervision and one should not en-
gage in it without ﬁrst co-operating with
the United States Biological Survey at
Washington.

Permits are issued for capturing migra-
tory birds for scientiﬁc banding purposes.
When birds are securely banded they must
be immediately released. The larger bands
carry a serial number and the request,
“Notify Biological Survey, Washington,
D. C.” Records of banded birds are trans-
mitted regularly to the Bureau of Biological
Survey where they are indexed and ﬁled so
as to be readily available for reference and

study. Thousands of birds have been banded '

and their records studied.

Bird banding methods are neither cruel
nor harmful but, on the contrary, are highly
beneﬁcial to the birds. Each trapping sta—
tion is in reality a bird sanctuary where
birds are free from natural enemies, receive
abundant and varied food, and ﬁnd water
for drinking and bathing purposes. 7

The underlying reason for all banding is
the desire for more knowledge concerning
migration. Records are interesting. A com-
mon tern banded on the coast of Maine was
found four years later at the mouth of Niger
River, British West Africa. Gulls banded in
England and Germany have been recovered
in American waters. Gulls banded in the
Great Lakes region have been reported in
Florida, Louisiana, Texas, and Vera Cruz,
Mexico.

Reports from capture-d mallards show a
line of ﬂight from Alberta, Manitoba, and
Saskatchewan in the north to the coast of
Louisiana and Texas in the south. Pintails
banded in Kansas have been reported from
California. Great blue herons banded in
Minnesota have been recovered south in
Iowa, Missouri, Texas, Mexico, and Pana-
ma. Mourning doves banded in Illinois have
been captured chieﬂy in Louisiana, Florida,
and Georgia, the latter state being their
chief wintering grounds. A young duck
hawk banded at King’s Point, Yukon, in
July was taken at Duchesne, Utah, during
the following February, about 2,300 miles
from the point of banding.

Blue jays banded in Illinois and Iowa
have been retaken in 'Missouri and Ark-
ansas. Crows banded in Illinois have been
captured in Wisconsin and Michigan; one
banded in Saskatchewan in June was found
in Oklahoma in the succeeding January,
while one banded in Oklahoma in January
was recovered three months later in Minne-
sota. An unusually long ﬂight for a small
non-game, perching bird is that of a robin
banded in midsummer at Crystal Bay,
Minnesota, and taken a year and a half
later at Pachuca, Hidalgo, Mexico.

Be Kind to Animals Week, April 17-22;
Humane Sunday, April 23, 1933.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Page 13

The Rare Scarlet Tanager

ROBERT SPARKS WALKER

when he takes a fancy to coloring his
airship, Nature has shown how decid-
edly human she is in painting some of the
birds as she does the scarlet tanager.
Would the movements of the black-tail-
rudder and wings when in ﬂight be more
conspicuous if they were painted some other
color?
The tanager looks as though he might
have been a b’lackbird at ﬁrst and have

ll IKE some sportsman of the airy ocean

 

SCARLET TANAGERS, DUE TO HUNTERS, ARE
NOW RARE VISITORS IN MOST LOCALITIES

fallen into a bucket of the reddest kind of
paint and held on to the receptacle with
wings and tail.

In most localities, the scarlet tanager is
a rare feathered visitor; yet, according to
some old reports, many years ago he seemed
to be about as common as the robin and
the cardinal. Unfortunately, many people
have no hesitancy in taking the life of any
beautiful bird, simply for the sake of satis-
fying their curiosity. Perhaps, the beauty
of the feathered gown of the scarlet tana-
ger is responsible for his decreasing num-
bers of late years, as is true of the ivory-
bille-d woodpecker.

The deep red body that the scarlet tana-
ger owns makes him such a conspicuous
target for guns and slingshots that his com-
parative small numbers today may be part-
ly due to the bloody deeds of the past that
are so repulsive for us to think about.

No person who admires beautiful crea-
tions can avoid going into ecstasies over
the sight of a scarlet tanager whose deep
black wings and tail joined to a scarlet
body make a wonderful contrast of colors.
I fear that women of by-gone days failed
to exercise their will power, if not their
reasoning faculties, for undoubtedly the
fashions of yesterday played their part in

reducing the scarlet tanager’s numbers.
Such deeds and practices afford splendid
illustrations of how love of beauty some-
times completely hypnotizes the spirit of
human kindness! It also illustrates how
treacherous savagery may ride into the hu-
man heart under the guise of love of
beautiful creations.

So scarce have become the scarlet tana-
gers that there are many people today who
have never had the opportunity of seeing a
bird of this kind. I blush
to admit that when I want
to see one of them in my
community I am compelled
to go to Lookout Moun-
tain, and then sometimes
it takes days Of searching
to reveal one of these
strikingly handsome crea—
tures.

Yet the scarlet tanager
is not a bird with a wild
disposition, for he visits
ﬁelds, door-yards, parks,
and is often seen out in
the orchard, searching the
trees for insect pests.

It is fortunate that the-
wives of many birds that.
are dressed as brightly as
the scarlet tanager wear
dull clothes, otherwise
some of our interesting
species of birds might be
threatened withan early
extermination. Mrs. Tan-
ager is clad in a suit of
light olive, greenish-yellow
and black. This dress har-
monizes with the sur-
roundings of her nest in
the green tree.

The scarlet tanager’s
practice of spending the
winter months in the tropics makes him
less able to withstand the sudden cold
snaps, for many of these birds lose their
lives after returning in springtime when
they encounter a belated blizzard.

The Song Without an Answer
AUDREY F. CARPENTER

I heard in the saffron evening glow
The call of a mourning dove,

A sadly wistful call, and slow,
Like a soul that yearned for love.

Above and through the mist of sound
That call was ever the same.

I felt that hollow note, and round.
Its answer never came.

The magniﬁcent ﬂamingo, once so plenti--
ful in the tropic regions of Florida but now
extinct, has been restored to its native
haunts at the Mountain Lake Sanctuary;
and the birds, sable» and scarlet—trimmed
against a snowy white, are Chilean birds
donated by the South American republic in
recognition of the outstanding purpose of
this Park with its marvelous Singing Tower,
the gift of Edward Bok to the people.

 




 

 

 

 

 

‘2 “ A“""‘.“" 44

 

Page 30

@1112 ﬂaw) of merry

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

E. A. MARYOTT, State Organizer
PLEDGE

I will try to be kind to all living creatures and try
to protect them from cruel usage.

The American Humane Education Society will send
to every person who forms a Band of Mercy of thirty
members, and sends the name chosen for the Band and
the name and post-ofﬁce address of the president who
has been duly elected, special Band of Mercy literature
and a gilt badge for the president. .

See inside front cover for prices of literature and
Band of Mercy supplies.

NEW BANDS OF MERCY

Six hundred and thirty-three new Bands
of Mercy were reported during December.
Of these, 133 were in Texas, 129 in Geor-
gia, 88 in Virginia, 72 in Vermont, 52 in
Rhode Island, 43 in Massachusetts, 38 in
South Carolina, 34 in Pennsylvania, 22 in
Illinois, 10 in Tennessee, eight in Syria,
and one each in Montana, New Hampshire,
Oklahoma and Washington.

Total number Bands of Mercy organized
by Parent American Society, 191,840

Use of “ The Bell of Atri”

TEACHER in the Grafton Street

Junior High school, Worcester, Mass.,
who showed our ﬁlm, “The Bell of Atri,” to
her pupils, writes:

I wish to express to you my deepest
thanks for the loan of such a ﬁne subject,
which with the play surely made a very
strong and favorable impression upon the
minds of the hundreds of pupils who wit-
nessed the performance. The program was
a huge success and the many favorable
comments came not only from teachers in
general but from the English department
in particular. It was entitled, “The Value
of Animal Life to Man” and consisted of
three parts:

1. One—act play, “The Trial of the
Birds,” in which 32 pupils participated.

2. Recitation, “The Bell of Atri.”

3. Showing of ﬁlm, “The Bell of Atri.”

 

N ineteen-year-old Cat

Few household pets live to the ripe old
age of nineteen as did “Tramp,” pet eat of
the Misses Lillie and Violet Young, of Lud-
low, Mass. Ofﬁcer Theodore W. Pearson,
manager of the Springﬁeld ofﬁce of the
Massachusetts S. P. C. A., was called to
mercifully end the days of this long-lived
animal which had become a much-loved
member of the Young household.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

A Cat and a Singer
MARGARET ANN AHLERS

NE beautiful summer afternoon of the

year 1827, in Stockholm, Sweden, a
tired little girl sat by the open window of
the steward’s lodge at the gate of the
Widow’s Home.

Looking out upon the busy street leading
up to the Church of St. Jacobs, she wished
with all her heart that she could go out and
play with the other children. They were
having such a good time! But, alas, the six-
year-old child had so many household. tasks
that there was little time for play.

The wife of the steward, with whom the
girl stayed while her mother worked in
Linkoping, always locked the door when
she went out. The woman was afraid some-
thing might happen to the child left in her
care, although she had no sympathy for the
lonely little one. Often she went out to earn
extra money for herself with apparently no
thought for the child who was forced to
spend many long, tedious hours all alone.

On this particular day the girl could not
keep back the tears. But there was one who
never failed to comfort her with mute love
and affection. One who was always ready
to offer companionship. Turning from the
window, she saw her cat looking up appeal-
ingly. Quickly she gathered him up in her
arms, sat down in a chair and began rock-
ing back and forth.

Tears came fast—ea shower of glistening
drops fell on the furry gray ball cuddled
close. As if he wanted to comfort his mis-
tress, the cat stretched out one little white-
tipped paw and laid it on her breast. That
brought more tears! But soon both child
and cat were fast asleep, all troubles for-
gotten in dreams of better times.

Suddenly the girl woke with a start. The
sun had gone down. Dre‘ading the usual
scolding when the old woman came back,
she began to sing. The cat snuggled closer
and started to purr all over again. What a
comfort the little fellow was—he loved her,
anyway! A sweet song burst from the
heart of the child and the sound of her voice
ﬂoated about the dingy room and out
through the open window.

It happened that the maid of a very fam-
ous opera singer, Mlle. Lundberg, passed by
just then and heard the song. What a beau-
tiful voice! She stopped, knocked, but found
the door locked. On making inquiries of the
neighbors, they told her about the child who
was shut up alone so often and how she sat
by the window and sang to her cat.

The maid told her mistress who became
much interested. The mother was located
and asked to bring her daughter to the
great singer. “The child is a genius; you
must have her educated and taught how to
sing!”

So it came about that the little girl was
admitted to the School of Pupils attached
to the Royal Theater. Herr Croe-lius, court
secretary and singing master, felt sure a
remarkable talent had been discovered. Nor
was he mistaken, for the little girl who sang
to her cat came to be called the “Swedish
Nightingale.” She was none other than
Jenny Lind, possessor of one of the ﬁnest
soprano voices the world has ever known.

Be Kind to Animals Week, April 17-22;
Humane Sunday, April 23, 1933.

 

Feb. 1933

 

Writing about Cats

SISLEY HUDDLESTON in Christian Science Monitor

Those of us who write in the public prints
know that there are certain subjects which
create a personal bond between us and our
readers. For the most part, their apprecia-
tion, so far as we are concerned, is silent.
They do not express their approval or dis-
approval, except on those occasions when
something written has gone home to their
business and bosoms. we drop as it were,
our lucubrations into a dark hole; they dis-
appear and we usually hear of them no
more. That they produce some effect, how-
ever, we judge by the letters which from
time to time reach us; and we are entitled
to deem that, if perfect strangers take the
trouble to thank us or declare their dissent,
there must be many more who nearly took
this positive step, and a still greater num-
ber who gave at least a passing thought to
what we had to say.

But of all the subjects which provoke
epistolary communications to the author,
that of cats is supreme. I am told that the
subjects of dogs is likewise a sure card, but
of this I have no personal experience. When-
ever I want to be cheered by the conscious—
ness of unknown friends, I write neither
about politics nor economics, neither about
philosophy nor art; I write about cats.
There was a little essay I published ﬁve
years ago on cats which to this day brings
me pleasant missives. When I occupy my-
self with men and women, there may or
may not be a response; but when I occupy
myself with cats, I am made aware of the
sympathies of a vast army of cat lovers.

Band with an Ideal Name

From the teacher of the Gatlin school,
Thomaston, Ga., we have received this in-
teresting account of her new Band of
Mercy: ’ i

“We have 30 members, and are known as
the Lincoln Band of Mercy. The children
seem to enjoy it. I am acting president
until I can train one of the larger girls for
the ofﬁce. The members have begun at lunch
hour to feed the birds. We also have two
pet dogs that pay us a visit nearly each day
of the school week. I want to thank you for
the valuable literature you have sent. We
are making good use of it.

(Signed) RUTH HIGHTOVER

It is. said that Abraham Lincoln’s ﬁrst
compos1tion was on kindness to animals.

 




 

 

Aug. 1933

Do Carrier . Pigeons Think P

L. E. EUBANKS

INCE pigeons were used as messengers

as early as the ﬁfth Egyptian dynasty
and have served man so faithfully through
the centuries, it would—seem that they-should
be given some credit for a feeling of re-
sponsibility.

I believe that when a bird is used re-
peatedly to carry a message, that bird
becomes more or less conscious of its mis—
sion, realizes that there is a purpose in the
ﬂying. The use of these birds is no longer
conﬁned to times of war; present-day ac—
tivities employ them in many other ways.
Forest rangers prize their help in the con-
trol of ﬁres. Air pilots frequently carry
several pigeons as a means of communica-
tion should they be obliged to land in an
isolated place.

One of the most recent uses for pigeons
is in the making of aerial photographs with
a small, light camera which is strapped
around the bird’s body. Sometimes air mes-
sages are attached to the same bird’s legs.
At intervals the camera automatically
makes exposures, as the bird ﬂies. I think
that the pigeon ﬂying with such an outﬁt,
anyway after a few repetitions, feels him-
self to be an actor in something important.
It is signiﬁcant that the bird lets nothing
happen to the equipment, and seldom gets
“sidetracked.”

Unless pigeons think, how would we ex—
plain this: Sometime ago a pigeon-fancier
in Dover missed one of the birds from his
loft, and tried in vain for several days to
locate it. Finally, the man noticed strange
behavior in one of his other pigeons. It
would ﬁll its crop as full as possible then
ﬂy away at great speed. The owner resolved
to ﬁnd out where the bird went, and so the
mystery was solved. He traced the pigeon
to a certain chimney-stack on the outskirts
of Dover, and saw it drop the grains of
corn down into the chimney. Ladders were
brought and the chimney examined. Down
in there, resting on a little brick ledge, was
the lost pigeon, and it was still alive,
thanks to its mate’s care.

The Hoot Owl—a Helper

WILLIS MEHANNA

In the dusk of evening up and down the
wooded valleys of our midwest streams and
creeks can be heard the eerie, Weird call of
the long-eared or hoot owl. He is liable to
be heard any time of year but oftene‘st in
summer or autumn. He is a noble bird and
man’s friend. He usually has his nest in
the forks and hollows of large trees and
because of his nocturnal habits and unob-
trusive ways he should survive many more
decades. His prey consists largely of ﬁeld
mice and chipmunks which are very destruc-
tive to fresh planted corn, yet where the owl
is these pests are scarce. He will occa-
sionally get young ground-hogs and this
trait should entitle him to protection. He is
also a good weather prophet. If several of
his kind take turns at calling and appear
to be answering each other from different
Points up and down the creek during the
evening and their calls are a little louder
than common, a rain is not far off. The
farmer hearing these calls had better not
leave his hay in the swath.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Page 125

America’s Huge Bird of Mystery

ROBERT M. HYATT

 

THE CALIFORNIA CONDOR

ﬂying bird in the world lives in Cali-

fornia, his one and only home. He is the
California condor, the king of all condors,
and his approximate one hundred survivors
are ﬁghting extinction—and losing.

This great bird of mystery, which remains
as much of an obscurity today as ever dur-
ing the past half-century, exists in the
original wild state in a certain mountain—
ous region on the Coast Range, less than
eighty miles from metropolitan Los Angeles.
Yet his existence is almost as legendary——
even to Californians—as the mythical roc
of childhood tales. This because he is so
rarely seen.

A disputed question for years, it is now
deﬁnitely established that the California
condor is the largest of all living birds that
ﬂy. Not even excepting the Andean variety,
which is second in length of wing-spread,
but usually weighing more. Actual measure-
ment of several specimens of South Ameri—
can and Old World vultures have been made
by eminent authorities. These measure—
ments show that the average wing-spread
of the adult California condor often exceeds
ten, and as much as twelve, feet.

The California condor is a separate and
distinct species of the vulture family and is
found only in this state. It lays one egg,
and then only every two years. The adult
bird is black, with sizeable patches of white
on the wing undersides, and has a naked
head and neck, reddish or pink in color. He
is an eater of carrion, killing nothing for
food. Unlike his cousin, the Andean con—
dor, our own condor does not grasp and
carry off small stock and other animals,
simply because nature did not provide him
with grasping talons. All tales about child
and lamb kidnapings to the contrary! The
condors are gentle and kindly disposed
toward humans, those few who have dared
the dizzy heights of his natural retreat re-
port. Yet, while exhibiting no marked un-
friendly characteristics toward intruders,
they are great “home lovers,” seldom ven-
turing beyond their own conﬁnes, and never
near civilized communities.

The California condor ﬂies at an altitude
of about twenty-ﬁve hundred feet over
peaks, from which height his keen eyes can

FEW persons know it, but the largest

easily see even a small dead animal. This
fact often leads the observer to confuse him
with the common buzzard or “turkey vul-
ture,” which abounds in the Southwest.

To see a condor rise from a crag and
soar into the blue haze, on perfectly motion-
less wings, and at incredible speed, is a
sight not easily forgotten—one that will
make you waver in your choice of the eagle
as the “bird of majesty.” After witnessing
an exhibition of such expert “natural avia~
tion,” you will swear fealty to his reign
of monarch of all that ﬂies—not excepting
man’s awkward contraptions.

The California condor builds no nest.
The egg is deposited on sticks or leaves in
a shallow rock cave, usually in some in-
accessible cliﬂ' a thousand or more feet in
height. He chooses this because he requires
a great deal of room for the “take off.” The
old birds appear to mate for life, which may
well be in excess of a century. The young
condor, for the ﬁrst few weeks of his life,
is covered with a grayish white down. He
does not reach maturity until well into the
second year.

Because of his near extinction, the Cali-
fornia condor is at last actually protected
with considerable zeal. Yet his species faces
almost certain doom because his means of
subsistence has been all but eliminated.
Our cruel and heedless civilization has de-
stroyed most of America’s original wild life.
The grizzly bear—California’s emblematic
beast—has gone to an inglorious end. And
now the decimation of the California con-
dor, a useful and grand creature, which we
shall some day appreciate and regard with
awe in memory only, is another of civiliza—
tion’s most pitiful crimes. For surely he
will not be with us long. There seems little
place in the scheme of things for a large
vulture now. The vast stock herds of some
years past are few; big game animals are
scarce, less often are left dead for condors
to eat, now that depredations of mountain
lions have been so seriously curbed by state
control. It but proves the law of the sur-
vival of the ﬁttest: yet hardly applicable to
animals, as man holds all the advantages.

Remember the American Humane Edu-
cation Society in your will.

 

 

 

 

 




 

  
 
   

I A sﬁug. ‘
:' a?:.c«z:’éf‘u-;;3-.3e?-z
~ . as» v.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

   

S“ .
‘h

i

m

M

/
«3"

     
   

e
as
e

2'
i,

 

Oscar Visits the Shipping City
F. SAU NDERS

BABY seal recently ventured up the Kennebec river one

afternoon as far as the Maine Central dock in Bath,
Maine, and climb-ed awkwardly up the bank to sun itself. It
was soon discovered by an excited group of youngsters and,
to their happy surprise, showed no alarm at their approach, in
fact, seemed to welcome company.

The boys named it “Oscar,” and for over two hours, played
and caressed it, Oscar meanwhile acting much the same as
a well-behaved dog. One daring youngster even placed his
hand in the seal’s mouth with no resulting discomforts.

.Probably Oscar decided that a two-h‘our"visit to the Shipping
Clty was sufﬁcient for the ﬁrst call, for he ﬁnally ﬂipped down
the bank and into the water. This was the last. they would see

of Oscar, thought the boys, as they regretfully watched the
seal swim away.

But one forenoon, only two days later, Oscar reappeared at
the dock and landed as before. A large crowd of curious spec-
tators quickly assembled to welcome him, and one lad fed
him two cups of milk with a spoon.

It was stated by those who possess knowledge of these mam-
mals, that Oscar was only about one week old.

It is a rare enough sight to see a seal this far up the
Kennebec river; but to ﬁnd one seeking human company be-
s1des—well, it’s hard to believe.

The Pet-Basket Lady

ELSPETH JOYCE

T HIS was the name the children of the neighborhood gave
Mrs. Troy. She was a widow, the owner of a tiny home

and a corresponding income and not much else—except a pet—
basket.

She had bought it at a rummage sale for a local charity and
was on her way home with it when she spied a sick kitten on
the street. The little sufferer went into the basket and in the
next few days Mrs. Troy nursed it back to health and playful-
ness. The house did not seem quite so lonely after that.

The next time she went out she did not take the pet-basket
with her and was sorry she had not. For she found a lost
puppy, a wobbly little chap who dodged in and out under autos
and nearly got run over. She carried this little fellow home
in her arms and a few days later returned him to his owner

who had hurried to put an advertisement in the “Lost and
Found” column.

It seemed as if every time Mrs. Troy went out she found a
little animal that need-ed a friend and very gladly she be-
friended it. So she formed the habit of taking walks around
the neighborhood whenever she could spare the time, always
carrying the pet-basket along.

Often she brought it home empty but many other times it
had a pitiful little occupant which she had rescued from the
street. Sometimes. she found good homes for these strays.
Sometimes, if hurt, they had to go to refuges where their suf-
ferings ended. Every little life was given the best she had
to give, and her own life that had been so meager and empty
became full to overﬂowing of helpfulness and joy.

 

 

 

“HAPPY DAYS ARE HERE AGAIN”

 

“ Lovely-Wings ”: a Ballad

MABEL HALL WALTER

Alice came running over the hill,
She wept as she ran and she wept her ﬁll,
The sound of her wailing was loud and shrill.

“Alice, 0 Alice, why do you cry?
Come here to mother, see, it is I!
0 child, tell me quickly, why is it you cry?”

The wailing subsided but with fresh alarms
She cast herself sobbing in mother’s dear arms,
That sure and safe refuge from all childish harms.

“We played on the hill-tap, Paulina and I,
With dear “Lovely-Wings,” my pet butterfly,
And she caught him and killed him,—and that made me cry!"

1

Down by the horse-barn, where thick maples keep
A guard of cool shadows, somber and deep,
’Mid hapless field babies, does Lovely-Wings sleep.

Alice, 0 Alice, fearless and free,
Lover of moth and mouse, bird, snake and bee,
All of God’s creatures come gladly to thee.

All of God’s creatures come at thy call;
Love and protect them and cherish them all,
So shall thy childhood be blest in recall.

Page 127

 

 

 

 




 

Apr. 1933

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

The Robin Works on Your Lawn

ROBERT SPARKS WALKER

g FEW years ago I heard a well-known
physician and surgeon bitterly de-
nounce the person who began the prac-

tice of cooking food. Perhaps this doctor

had been observing how healthful and ac-
tive the birds appear to be.

Often I hear women and children express
a wish that they might have the life of a
bird with all its beautiful dress and its
facilities of song and ﬂight. But how quickly
do such persons become quiet in their re-
ﬂective moments when they are reminded
of the fact that if they were provided with
the facilities of a bird that they would also
be compelled to accept its feeding habits!

An old physician might declare that if
we ate more raw food, especially of fruits,
nuts and vegetables, we might avoid
many bodily ills and at the same time ex-
tend our age limit.

An American robin is one of the favorite
birds who is perhaps seen more frequently
on our lawns than any other bird. If a
raw diet, such as his, is conducive to a long
life, then the robin should easily live to be
a centenarian.

He is one of the birds whose feeding hab-
its may be observed easily from a comfort-
able chair on the front porch. How spryly
he hops about over the lawn, pausing quick-
ly when he spies or hears evidences of the
presence of a white grub or a cutworm be-
neath a clump of grass! How is he able
to tell just where to prospect with his beak-
pick to ﬁnd an edible treasure that is so
completely hidden in the ground? I am sure
that I cannot answer this question. A few
hard blows at the base of a grass clump to
make a vertical opening, then ﬁrst a swing
to the right, then to the left to shovel out
the dirt, and, presto, he hauls out a greasy
cutworm or a large fat grub. '

If you do not believe that a robin is ex-'
pert at the game of catching grubs, just
take out your watch and provide yourself
with a pencil and tablet. Then make a re-
cord, as he digs away, of the mistakes that
he makes. When your record is complete,
it will not require '
many minutes for
you to calculate how
many times he is
worth his weight in
gold to you. It is
true that he catches
a few earthworms,
but he ﬁnds more
food by far of the
other kind; for in
d r y weather t h e
earthworms sink too
deep for the robin’s
beak, while the grub—
w o r m s and cut-
worms remain with-
in his reach. The
robin’s sharp-point-
ed bill is naturally
ﬁtted for mining
grubs while that of
the duck is rough in—
side on the gripping
surface as a pair of
pliers which keeps
the sleek earthworm
or minnow from slip-

W

 

 

FATHER ROBIN

ping away.

When the robin’s body-engine demands
almost its weight in insects each day, and
his ﬂedgling babies are calling for double
their weight in food between dawn and
sunset, by the time their demands have
been met, the insect population has de-
creased at a shocking rate. The baby robin’s
speckled breast causes some observers to
get him confused with thrushes and the
young brown thrasher, but soon his vest
takes on the standard color of the robin
family.

The Goldfinch

MRS. H. A. DANNECKER

See the merry little goldfinch
In his coat of brown and yellow;
(He’s the proud and boastful fellow
On the elm tree’s topmost branch.)
But I love his notes so shrill,
Though sometimes his voice will break
When he struggles hard to make
A prolonged and fancy trill.

Without him, what would summer be?
Other birds have ﬁnished nesting
And from lilting song are resting,

When he comes and fervently
Sets about to woo his mate,

And although his song is late,

Tells his love most ardently.

Oh, I love his ﬂashing color
As he ﬂies across the meads,
Seeking thistle-down and seeds:

King of summer’s golden splendor!

Because the birds of North America mi—
grate from one country to another and are
natives of no one country, there exists a
migratory bird treaty between the United
States and Canada to the effect that all
game birds on the continent that migrate
are afforded equal protection in both coun-
tries.

WITH ONE OF HIS YOUNGSTERS

Page 55

Meet the Partridge
THOMAS ROONE‘Y

HE ruffed grouse, so persistently shot

in the East, is a common bird in the
northern wilds of Minnesota. We of Kooch-
iching County, the northernmost area of
the United States, are well prepared to ob-
serve the habits and activities of the par-
tridge. Yes, to us the ruﬂ'ed grouse is a
partridge.

Even here there are some whose mouths
water gluttonously when the above bird is
mentioned. Partridge meat to them is what
chickens are to Negroes. . . . Yum, yum.
As for myself—there is nothing so savory
as a good piece of well—aged salt por-r-k.
Let the wild things live! . .

The partridges are especially fond of
primitive places. They inhabit the thick
woods, living on wild berries and leaves, or
whatever contains nutrition. Their brood-
ing nests are concealed in hollow logs,
stumps, or brush-covered places. The young
are precocious, leaving the maternal guid-
ance before knowing the advanced prin-
ciples of aviation. Peeping about the forest,
picking berries and leaves, they learn how
to use their wings by hopping from meal to
meal. Sometimes a hawk swoops down,
clutches a terriﬁed youngster in his talons
and ﬂaps vigorously over the tree-tops.
High above sails the hawk, bearing his help-
less prey. The sight reminds one of a
balloon equipped with a basket. In this
stern school of experience the young par-
tridge learns the lessons of self-preservation.
At the whistle of a hawk or other fore-
boding sound he hides in the thicket. If the
enemy approaches too closely the spot of
secretion, he clucks warningly to his breth-
ren, who in turn scamper or ﬂy off. The
grouse is a noble little fellow. Often the
altruistic utterance means his life.

Partridges roost in almost any spot.
When weather permits, they may be seen
sometimes dozing by the side of a highway.
They like the sun, particularly after a
heavy rain, when their feathers are matted
and dowdy. They are unafraid of automo-
biles. Sometimes a car may come within
ﬁve feet of them. Many northern Minnesota
motorists have run down partridges, inten-
tionally or otherwise.

Those who hunt this little bird explore
the thickest regions of the wood, listening
carefully for a betraying sound, glancing
the while to the higher branches of tam-
arack, poplar and pine trees, of which their
game is particularly fond. In winter time
the partridge hibernates for several days in
the snow. If pursued, he dives into a snow-
bank and wiggles out of danger. If his
crop is ﬁlled, he contentedly remains with-
drawn from this world of blood-lusty en-
emies. However, when hunger gnaws, out
comes Mr. Partridge, unmindful of danger,
boldly snapping up everything edible. The
inculcations of youth, the general theories
of conduct and living, are snubbed in the
overpowering element of hunger.

The celebrated Whiteﬁsh for which Indian
tribes have been named is the most famous
food-ﬁsh of the Lake States.

Nature robs the bones of the fowl of
their lime in order that it may be used in
the perfection of the shell of the egg.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

Page 12

The Green Wicket

From the Dogs’ Cemetery, Isle of Jersey

Twelve gates there are in Heaven’s wall
Round the city clear as glass;

And every gate is made of pearl,
Through which the white souls pass.

And there’s another humble gate,
A wicket green and low,

That leads to wide and pleasant ﬁelds
Where long, cool grasses grow.

The Apostles stand at the gates of pearl;
But by this wicket green

He who doth save both man and beast,
The Lord’s dear self is seen.

He calls his creatures to come in,
And opens the wicket wide;
And the poor things, when they hear his
voice,
Flock through to the other side.

Tired horses and mangy cats
And poor lost dogs are there,

And little birds, once cramped and caged,
Come singing through the air.

Annuity Bonds

Many men and women, lovers of animals,

are getting both happiness and material
comfort from our two Societies’ Annuity
Bonds. These bonds are absolutely safe.
They pay from 4 to 8%—according to your
age. Send the coupon for a free folder
which gives full details. Fill in the coupon
and mail it now.
The Massachusetts S. P. C. A. (or)
The American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Ave., Boston, Mass.

Without obligation to me, please send

me your folder which tells all about your
Annuity Bonds.

Name ...................... Age ......
Address ...............................
Clty ..................... State ........

If a child is made to realize that every
creature which can feel is akin to him and
that to cause needless suffering is wicked,
it goes a long way toward a building of
wholesome character as well as the encour-
agement of other development of that
frame of mind that makes universal peace
a necessity. DAVID STARR JORDAN

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Wild Life in Mississippi

N the suggested program of activities and

projects for the use of county units and
aﬂ‘lliated clubs of the Mississippi Associa-
tion for the Conservation of Wild Life, pre-
pared by Fannye A. Cook, reference is
made to Junior Humane Leagues and to
Our Dumb Animals with the suggestion that
interested persons write to 180 Longwood
Avenue, Boston, for information and direc-
tions.

This Association has the commendable ob-
ject of securing a system of permanent
state preserves as sanctuaries for birds and
wild animals. It offers the following

Sportsman’s Creed

1. Never in sport endanger human life.

2. Never kill wantonly, or needlessly or
brutally.

.3. Obey the laws of state and nation,
work for better laws, and uphold the en-
forcing authorities.

4. Respect the rights of farmers and
property owners and also their feelings.

5. Always leave seed birds and game in
cover.

6. Never be a ﬁsh-hog.

7. Discourage the killing of game for
commercial purposes by refusing to pur-
chase trophies.

8. Study and record the natural history
of game species in the interest of science.

9. Never throw down a lighted match, or
cigarette. Put out your camp ﬁre.

10. Love nature and its denizens and be
a gentleman.

Killing for Sport

Limiting the daily bag, shortening the
hunting seasons and various other restric-
tions do not penetrate to the real source of
trouble—the desire to kill for sport, says the
Christian Science Monitor in an editorial.
Until this desire is curbed in a majority
of the United States nearly 8,000,000 hun-
ters, bird and animal life of all types will
be in danger of extermination. Restrictive
measures are made ineffective as protection
by the increase in the number of hunters
from year to year.

Hunters have gradually brought many
species of wild life to extinction. It is time
that every effort be made that the American
woods may not become as depopulated of
wild life as Central Park and Boston Com-
mon.

One proposed method is the showing of
educational ﬁlms, picturing the home life

 

“CATS ARE THE GREATEST SUFFERERS FROM ABANDONMENT”

Jan. 1933

of birds and animals and accompanied by
some prominent naturalist’s conservation
talks, woven directly with the “movie.”

Such a program would not only bring
home vividly to the hunter the effect of his
slaughter but should develop a love for
animals. Thus many hunters probably would
become friends rather than killers of wild
life.

The latter condition is one of the chief
aims of all wild life preservation activities,
but it can result only from the addition of
educational work to rigid restrictions on
hunting.

Turned Out

L. E. EUBANKS

NIMAL defenders in England are cru-

sading against the growing custom of
abandoning pets. Thousands of dogs, both
in England and Germany, have been turned
out to shift for themselves because the
owners ﬁnd it difficult to pay dog taxes.

I believe that in the Unite-d States cats
are the greatest sufferers from abandon-
ment. A resident of Vashon Island, a favor-
ite camping resort near Seattle, Wash., says
that many cats are brought to the Island
by campers in the summer and cruelly
abandoned when the people return home in
the autumn.

Homeless, friendless, forlorn, the cats
have to beg and steal or starve. Hundreds
are left on Vashon every summer, and of
course they kill birds—what else can they
do? Man will steal and ﬁght, even kill, in
self-preservation, and he is credited with
far more self-control than the lower animals.

I understand that similar conditions to
those on Vashon Island exist in the East,
especially among the campers in the Adi-
rondacks, New York State. Hundreds of cats,
many of them mere kittens, are taken to the
summer camps as playthings, and left to
any old fate when the campers return to
their city homes. While many of the poor
creatures succumb to the winter cold—some
survive—to be cursed for bird killing and
other depredations.

Carelessness with an over-production of
cats has been a serious thing for many
age-s. There still exist in England, speci-
mens being shot occasionally or caught
alive, a race of wild cats believed to be de-
scended from domestic cats of the Roman
legions and households which escaped from
domestication when Rome occupied Great
Britain ﬁfteen or more centuries ago.
Throughout all these years, even in a coun-
try as fully settled as England, these form-
erly domesticated cats, now grown exceed-
ingly ﬁerce, strong and wary, have managed
to keep their species from dying out.

A cat easily becomes wild. Your kitten
may be a great pet, thoroughly domesti-
cated, but its parents or grandparents, an-
cestors somewhere along the line, were no-
madic and more or less wild, you may be
sure. The whole cat family has been con-
demned and abused by too many people for
too many centuries for us to look for much
change in the feline nature.

So take thought before you turn a cat out
to shift for itself or abandon it at some
camping resort. A stray cat not only suffers
but becomes a nuisance in many ways, con-
tributes to the wildness of other cats, and
kills our valuable birds.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

- _ ‘7’“, Ha,

Page 78

Eh? 715mm nf merry

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

E. A. MARYOTT, State Organizer
PLEDGE

I will try to be kind to all living creatures and try
to protect them from cruel usage.

The American Humane Education Society will send
to every person who forms a Band of Mercy of thirty
members and sends the name chosen for the Band and

the name and post-ofﬁce address of the president who
has been duly elected, special Band of Mercy literature
and a gilt badge for the president.

See inside front cover for prices of literature and
Band of Mercy supplies.

NEW BANDS OF MERCY

Eleven hundred and sixty—nine new Bands
of Mercy were reported during March. Of
these, 433 were in Massachusetts, 366 in
Illinois, 116 in Vermont, 113 in Georgia, 43
in Rhode Island, 40 in South Carolina, 26
in Virginia, 23 in Pennsylvania, ﬁve in
Tennessee, two in Texas, and one each in
Maine and Quebec.

Total number Bands of Mercy organized
by Parent American Society, 194,123.

Letters received from the pupils of a
school in Dedham, Mass, which Miss Mary—
ott visited recently, testify to the interest
created by her slide talk.

The children have reported Special acts
of kindness which show that the lesson has
been put to practical use.

A teacher in a country school in Ver—
mont writes to tell us how much interest
is being shown by her pupils in a recently
organized Junior Band of Mercy. She says
they have shown a much kinder spirit to-
wards all creatures. In several instances
they have reported to her cases of cruelty
to horses and cattle. She has investigated
the cases with them, and better treatment
for the animals has resulted.

Animals’ Welfare Week, which in Eng-
land corresponds to our national Be Kind
to Animals Week, will begin with the ﬁrst
Sunday in May. The National Council
urges teachers to write on the blackboard
each day some brief humane sentiment.
This seems a simple and effective way to
promote humane education.

0(7.R

Theater Cats

G. H. MOSHER

HEN seated in a movie or a theater

did you ever happen to see a cat pass
unobtrusively across the stage below the
screen, or pad along a cross aisle behind the
brass rail? If you did it is likely you
thought him a stray that had wandered in
eluding the stage—door man.

You did the animal a grave injustice if
you thought that. For, it was no doubt a
theater cat or show eat, an industrious, re-
spectable attaché of the house.

All the large theaters in the country keep
at least one cat on their staffﬂsometimes
two or more. Their job is mouse-catcher,
and unless they are good “mousers” the
management will not keep them long.

They live well, these show cats. A big
theater manager told me that they feed
thcir two cats, “Mike” and “Alfred,” one
pint of milk daily, chopped steak, liver, an
occasional can of salmon.

The stage carpenter of a large theater
told me a few stories about show cats. It
appears that one of the cats took a great
liking to a stock-company actor, and got
into the habit of following him from his
dressing-room on to the stage, where he
would often sit unconcernedly before the
footlights, washing his face. The audience
took a strong liking to this cat and the
show critics wrote him up in their reviews.
However, this cat did not let publicity go
to his head, and he was an excellent mouser
when not on the stage.

“What would a show be like without a
couple of mousing cats?” I asked the stage
carpenter.

“It would be so bad that people wouldn’t
come to it,” he declared, “Just like an old
opera house I used to work in. It was so
infested with rats that women used to faint
at sight of them and be carried out. The
rodents grew so bold they would run right
across the footlight guards during a per—
formance. Oh, these cats are necessary all
right, and don’t let anybody tell you they
aren’t.” So, I lift my hat to the show cats
who never have a ribbon pinned on them,
but who just work for a living.

 

“BUCK” “LADDIE,” AND THE TWINS

l)L73113 [ID 1 AlzllLS

ﬁlay,1933

Lost: a Master

R. E. BAIRD

Lost: Black and white fox terrier with brown spot
on left ear; answers to name of “Jack.” Pet of Curtis
Holman, age 9, 1904 Melrose Ave. Phone 8216.

H0 has not known the grief of a

boy separated from his dog? And
who has had a thrill much greater than that
which comes with returning a lost pet to its
young owner?

Not once, but hundreds of times before
his death last February, did Frederick G.
Bonﬁls, publisher of a Denver newspaper,
have this joy of re-uniting children and
their four-footed pals. To his personal desk
(by his own command) were brought all
scribbled letters from children with lost
pets. And while news of the world might
wait in stacks of telegraphed sheets upon
his desk, these children’s letters got ﬁrst
attention. Now the movies might make such
an editor say, “Get the story here”; this
editor said, “Get the dog back to its owner.”

Mr. Bonﬁls printed the letter in the news
columns with the description and name of
the animal, the name, age and address of
the child, and any other information that
might help in securing the return of the
pet. While hundreds of owners have re-
ported happy reunions brought about by
these printed letters, probably no one will
ever know exactly how many children were
thus made happy again.

Without a doubt, part of this editor’s sym-

pathy went out to the “lost, strayed or’

stolen” animal as well as to the owner, for
animals and nature were his special inter-
ests. A Maltese poodle, “Miss Dixie,” was
his close companion for ten years, and to
Miss Dixie he was the whole world. She
trotted through the park with him daily,
she teased him away from his desk when
the day’s work was done; and she romped
on his covers at bed-time.

Just a few months ago, the little poodle
paced restlessly all day near the door of her
master’s room which he had not left. Fi-
nally, seeing the chance to join him in her
daily romp on the foot of his bed, she trotted
towards him. The master’s hand moved
weakly to pet her, but as he whispered,
“Hello, Miss Dixie,” his greeting faded al-
most to silence. Not recognizing the un-
steady voice of her dying master, the poodle
ﬂed from the room. .

Without interruption the editor’s good
work continues—children’s touching letters
are printed almost every day in his news-
paper; pets are returned to their owners.
But one forlorn dog, Miss Dixie, searches
in vain for the friend of children, the friend
of animals: her master, the late Frederick
G. Bonﬁls.

The “ Do-lt-Now League”

.This is yet another organization, very
Simple, with no expense, in the interests of
kindness to everything, man and beast. The
inspiration for it comes from Mr. Wm. H.
Ketler, city librarian, Camden, N. J., a
great lover of animals. He has issued an
attractive card, with a triple pledge, sam-
ples .of which he will be glad to send upon
appllcation. “Any good that I can do, or
any kindness that I can show to any fellow
creature, let me do it now.”

 

 

 

"r45.




 

 

 

 

 

July, 1933

AN you love an ,animal that kills

creatures that you love? That is a

question that has always puzzled me,
and the more I have thought of it, the more
involved it has become. The only answer I
have been able to ﬁnd is this: Perhaps you
can’t love him, but you needn’t hate him.

I know cat lovers that hate dogs, and bird
lovers that hate cats. They believe they are
justiﬁed in destroying cats because they kill
song-birds, asserting that the birds destroy
harmful insects and so have a great utili-
tarian as well as an esthetic value, while-
the cat has none. Of course that is true
(unless the cat is a mouser), but it is not
the real reason for their attitude. It is,
to be honest, because they have a natural
liking for birds and a dislike for cats.
You never hear a lover of cats talk that
way. He saves the birds, if he can, but not
by slaying cats.

It is a curious fact that the amateur orni—
thologist is very often a person who cares
very little about animals. For the sake of
the birds that he loves and admires and
studies he aligns himself, tacitly or actively,
against all possible enemies of the birds.
The proponents of the steel trap have been
quick to take advantage of this prejudice
and have been spreading insidious and effec-
tive propaganda which purports to prove
that where anti-steel-trap laws are in force,
predatory animals have increased in num-
bers and song and game birds have shown
a decrease. This propaganda the enthusi-
astic bird lover often appears ready to ac-
cept without examination. I do not believe
it can be proved, but, even if it were» true,
there is still the question of whether the
fox hasn’t as much right to life, liberty,
and the pursuit of happiness as the quail.

It is all very puzzling and complex, and I
do not think it can be settled satisfactorily
if we allow our prejudices to have control.
There may be times when it is necessary to
destroy one form of life to save another,
but it must be done humanely and without
rancor. You may differ with me in the
conclusions I reach, and one of us is as
likely to be right as the other, but if you
act through hatred of any creatures, you
are, ipso facto, wrong.

We praise the birds for devouring insects.
Did it ever occur to you to put yourself in
the place of the insect? If your answer is
that you sacriﬁce the lower form of life to
the higher, you may not care to be reminded
that the cat is, biologically, a higher form
than the bird. Or, perhaps you are proud
of your cat or your terrier because of the
rodents he destroys. How would you like
to be the rodent? No, the question is not a
simple one, and I don’t think any enthusi-
ast has ever offered a satisfactory answer.
Probably, in our present state of limited
wisdom, we shall have to continue the de-
struction of certain forms of life, but let
it be done with regret, not with gloating.

I confess that I am not exempt from the
common error—if error it be—when it
comes to rats and mice. We cannot have
them in our house and they must be de-
stroyed. They are destructive and very
probably they are a menace to health. So
we set traps to catch them. I do not do
this joyfully, however, little as I love a rat.

OUR DUMB
A Word for Whitefoot

WALTER A. DYER

ANIMALS

When I hear a trap
sprung I hasten to it
at once, and if the
poor victim is still
alive, into a pail of
water he goes with
all possible dispatch.
He shall not suffer
torment if I can help
it, even if he is a
rat.

This trap setting
business has given me
s ome unhappy mo-
ments. Once I caught
a young chipmunk in
a rat trap which I
set in the woodshed.
The sight of his beau-
tiful little striped
body gave me a dis-
tinct shock. But that
was illogical. The
chipmunk is the rat’s
cousin.

But it is in the
autumn when the ﬁeld
mice come into the
house that I am most often troubled. They
are clever little fellows, and when I ﬁnd the
bait gone repeatedly from a rat trap, I
know it is whitefoot that has turned the
trick. But there is a lady in my house who
refuses to harbor them in her pantry, and
so whitefoot must suffer the same fate as
his kinsman, the little gray house mouse.

I love this handsome little fellow, though
I am obliged to take action against him.
Fortunately, he lives for the most part in
the woods and ﬁelds where he has nothing
to fear from me. The white-footed mouse,
called also the deer mouse and the wood
mouse (Peromyscus leucogous), is a beauti-
ful long—tailed rodent measuring a little
less than seven inches over all when full
grown. He is a lovely brownish fawn color,
shading to very dark on the back, with
pure ermine-white underparts and legs. He
is particularly beautiful in winter when his
fur is long and thick and bright. He has
big crinkled ears and large, bright, black
eyes.

He lives in summer in all sorts of places.
I ﬁnd him in the open ﬁelds and in the
woods and he loves our stone-walls. He
seldom comes near the house or barn until
his natural food gets scarce. In summer he
sometimes takes possession of the deserted
nests of song-birds, and for winter he builds
a snug nest for himself and his family in
holes in trees, in old woodchuck burrows,
and in various other places both above
ground and below.

The whitefoot shares with the red squir-
rel his evil reputation as a robber of bird’s
nests. Very likely this is deserved, though
I have never observed any evidence of it.
For the most part he lives on seeds, small
nuts, berries, and grain. He loves rose hips,
spruce and hemlock seeds, and black alder
berries. He devours quantities of weed
seeds and serves to some extent as a scav-
enger. He undoubtedly has his economic
value and I believe he does more good than
harm.

Like the red squirrel he is a partial hiber-

 

COUNTRY SCENE IN DEVONSHIRE, ENGLAND

nator and lays up stores of nuts and seeds
for winter use, but he does not remain in
his den for long at a time. You will ﬁnd
him out in almost any weather. His habits
are largely nocturnal and he is preyed upon
by owls, particularly in winter when he is
conspicuous on the moonlit snow.

Occasionally I have‘found in a woodpile
or elsewhere a soft ball of grass, string,
feathers, and thistledown. This is the nest
the mother whitefoot constructs in hidden
places when she bears her young. I found
her with her little family once, in just such
a nest, between two boards on top of a box
in the barn. I removed the» upper board,
not suspecting their presence, and there
they lay, the gentle little mother and ﬁve
tiny suckling infants. She scarcely moved
and I saw no fear in her eyes. Was it con—
ﬁdence in me, or sheer bravery, or was she
merely dazed by the sudden light? Gently
I replaced the board and went my way.

On winter mornings I sometimes ﬁnd
whitefoot’s lacy little tracks on the snow—
as pretty a design as you will ﬁnd in na-
ture. I believe they come out to dance and
play in the starlight, though I have never
caught them at it. Perhaps fairies come to
play with them. And then sometimes I ﬁnd
marks of sweeping wings at the end of
the dainty trail, and I know that a tragedy
has been enacted there.

Well, life is full of tragedies for the little
creatures of the wild. They are born to die
and to feed one another. It is the law of
nature, and impotent man can scarcely hope
to do much to counteract it. Indeed, he must
at times play a murderous part himself.
But for the sake of his own soul, let him
do it with justice and humanity, and add no
more to the sum of terror and torture in
the world than he can help.

Beavers are clever engineers, often recog-
nizing a principle used by human engi-
neers when they select a stream indicating
periodic ﬂoods and use the crescent form
of construction with the convex upstream.

 

 




 

"W":

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

 

 
  
  
  

  

‘ .3.“ . . ""1,
. "b
WWW
‘ .
~ ’1 ~‘\\\\ ' .
‘ -”‘.=.33§‘"Q}’"‘3

\‘
'23
C“; ‘.\6

  

 

  
  
      

 
  
  
 

1.1;,
“:9

 
 
 

. I
{I \ 9:5}: /
I \- - x
y , Wk 2’;
[Unit] f... _ H / \\“‘\l\l'll’§: g;
‘1” -.'/\’.‘..I-~I : 0‘ \ :5
xx» . --»~~\~=~~.—-
gee i3 3. -- z, , l; ﬁlllmg‘; ~ =
‘. '0 '- o I
~\~\‘ \ ‘5‘“.h‘ﬁg‘, Jaw Q

 

 

 

 

Page 79

 

O

A

Q“ N
\ \ ‘ . .‘
.; \
‘\\\”". 3
~ . \

 
   

‘ '-.'.~ ‘ . -.'-'|-‘ . 1
. . .- .
.« .
u’ I .
.. ..

I
\§
I I,
l//’;
6*
§
‘\\

     

‘3 ' 3"
‘ .Q. "
. E"

 

    

 

 

 

 

A Busy, Buzzy Bumblebee
MINNIE LEONA UPTON

A busy, buzzy bumblebee
Went “bump!” deep in. d blossom bell.
“Help, help, help!” buzzed and bumbled he;
“I think I’ve tumbled in a well!”

Fast flew his friends (such fuss he made)!
They found him—drinking lilyade!

An Unusual Nest

KATHERINE VAN DER VEER

OST of you are well acquainted with the brilliant oriole
M that arrives in early May, and whose gay coloring can
be seen ﬂashing among the blossoming orchards. He re—
ceived his name from the black and orange colors used by the
ﬁrst Lord Baltimore.

The hanging nests of the oriole are usually placed quite
high and on the tip end of a drooping branch. If you can
ﬁnd an old nest and will examine it, you will see that it has
been carefully woven of horse-hair and gray wood ﬁbres, and
sometimes lined with pieces of soft worsted. ‘

A neighbor of mine used to lay scraps of bright colored
wools on the grass in nesting time. One day she noticed
that only the pink shade was being favored. The following
fall, a violent wind storm broke a branch of the tree which
had held the pendant home of the Baltimore orioles. The
gray nest was discovered to be daintily lined with the deli-
cate pink wool.

All the wools were of the same quality and thickness.
Wouldn’t it be an interesting experiment to try this spring?
Perhaps even a bird has a color preference.

 

  

gm:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

“HERMAN,” THE UNDERSLUNG DACHSHUND, HAS JUST
RAIDED

ANATOMY. WHAT DID HE FIND IN THE PANTRY?

THE PANTRY WITH DIRE RESULTS TO HIS

(Answers next month) .

Answers to “Bobby,” the Sealyham puzzle last month: Paris,

Denmark, Glasgow, Stockholm, Italy, Berlin, Spain, Warsaw.

 

 

“ Snowball’s” Vacation

JOHN H. JOLLIEF

UTH Anna and her friend Miriam spend a part of each
summer several miles from home in a camp where the
girls’ fathers are teachers. Ruth Anna’s father is also camp

director and her mother is chief cook. Both girls help with
the dishes.

Last summer, when the family car was all loaded and ready
to go, “Snowball” came up to Ruth Anna, purred softly, and
looking up into her face asked, “Do I go to camp on the lake,
too?”

And what do you think Snowball’s mistress said? If you
knew Ruth Anna and her father and mother as well as I do
you could guess the answer the very ﬁrst time. She said,
“Why, Snowball, you dear little ball of white wool, of course
you are going on a vacation. Do you think we would be so
negl-ectful as to leave you here at home to starve or get sick
from lonesomeness while we went away for a good time at
the, lake? I have been looking for you. You are going with
us this very minute.” So she picked Snowball up and here are
the two girls and the kitten just outside the cabin at the lake.

“We couldn’t enjoy our vacation without Snowball,” is what
Ruth Anna said when she adjusted her glasses for this picture.
Wonder what Snowball is thinking about! I’ll guess she, is
’thinking about what a ﬁne vacation she is having; too, don’t
you? It may be she is feeling sorry for thekittens at home
who have been left to shift for themselves while their owners
have gone away on pleasure trips. She knows how they must
suffer. We hope they will see this picture and not do it again,
don’t you? -

Appreciating the Best

John Ruskin, when a boy, was trained to seek for the beauti—
ful in all things. When he? was four years old his father
started taking him on a trip through Europe, showing him the
best in architecture. As soon as he was able to read his mother
made him read the Bible every day, until he had become fa-
miliar with its great passages. .

When he grew up he became a great critic of art and a
writer of literature himself. He had trained himself to appre-
ciate the best in life around him.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

Page 56

Our Dumb Animals

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston ofﬁce; 180 Longwood _Av-
enue, Boston, Mass., to which all communications
should be addressed.

Dr. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON, Editor
WILLIAM M. MORRILL, Assistant

APRIL, 1933

 

 

FOR TERMS, see back cover.

AGENTS to take orders for Our Dumb Animals are
wanted everywhere. Liberal commissions are offered.

EDITORS of all periodicals who receive this pub-
lication this month are invited to reprlnt any of the
articles with or without credit.

MANUSCRIPTS relating to animals, particularly
prose articles of about three hundred words, are solic-
ited. We do not wish to consider prose manuscrlpts
longer than 800 words, nor verse in excess of thirty-
six lines. The shorter the better. All manuscripts
should be typewritten and an addressed envelope wzth
full return postage enclosed with each offering.

 

 

And.What Did Heaven
Think of It?

HIS is what the Baltimore Sun thinks
of a clergyman offering prayer for a
pack of hounds just before a fox hunt:

“You have some thirty hounds, backed
up by mounted gentry in pink coats and
bowler hats, all in pursuit of one fox. Yet
it is considered sporting to add to this ad-
vantage a divine blessing upon the hounds,
when strict equality would seem to demand
that the fox should be blest by nothing less
than a Bishop and full choir.

“It is said in defense of the present cus-
tom that the fox gets so much fun out of
being hunted, and is so often successful
in making idiots out of the pack by going
to ground just when everybody is yelling
‘Tallyho!’ that to bless him as well as the
hounds would make kills so rare that the
hunting set would take up golf.”

This may be an old English custom, but
let us imitate our English friends in some
of their ﬁne customs and not in any of the
relics of pagan times.

From Bangor, Maine

We wish we had space to reproduce the
entire report of the last year’s work of
the Bangor Humane Society received, from
its humane education secretary, Miss
gladys F. Taggett. We give only a part of
1 .

“One hundred and eleven rooms have

been supplied with Band of Mercy pledge-

cards, ﬁfty-nine of the rooms with banners,
—miscellaneous kindness stories frOm time
to time,—the humane magazine, and Hu-
mane Week was observed last year, when
$42 in awards were distributed. Last
fall our room at the Teachers’ Convention
proved most successful, particularly the
table of free humane education literature.
We have just ﬁnished circulating our poster
and story announcements for the 1933
sprmg contests, and are hoping to receive
permission to use City Hall, a large audi-
torium, for our April program.”

Remember the American Humane Edu-
cation Society in your will.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

“SHOT,” AN ENG—
LmH SETTER
KEEPING V I G I L
AT THE GRAVE,
or HIS MASTER '

H A M, ENGLAND

Thanks to Mussolini

LL who have read Dr. Munthe’s “San

Michele” and of his deep interest in
Capri as a bird sanctuary, will read the fol-
lowing from a letter of his to the Countess
of Warwick:

“A sudden ray of sunshine and joy has
just passed through the permanent twilight
in which I now live. I have just received
an ofﬁcial communication from the Italian
Government that, by order of Mussolini,
and in homage of the book and its author,
Capri has been declared a Bird Sanctuary
by a special decree, with severe punishment
for killing any birds on the Island. This
means literary success as I understand the
meaning of the word. It means the saving
of the lives of hundreds of thousands of
birds, many of them on their way to sing
in an English garden. It is the greatest
miracle St. Antonio, our Patron Saint, has
performed so far, and from the chapter on
the Bird Sanctuary I quote these lines to
which the birds owe their lives:—

“The decree has created agreat sensa-
tion all over Italy.

“Capri is known since Roman times for
the enormous number of migratory birds
coming here every spring to rest, and, alas,
to die. They are all safe now. Needless to
tell you what it means to me who for half
a century has been ﬁghting for the birds
on this Island, the paradise of men, the hell
of the birds. I have done my bit, my mis-
sion in life is over. It is time to emigrate to
another planet. I can no longer see my be-
loved birds, but I can hear one of them
singing lustily outside my window as I am
writing this.”

Apr. 1933

Another Greyfriar’s Bobby

ANY of our readers are familiar with

the story of “Greyfriar’s Bobby”
which stayed so many years by his master’s
grave in an Edinburgh cemetery. A similar
story we saw in an English paper about
another dog. We wrote to our friend, Cap-
tain Fairholme, secretary of the Royal S.
P. C. A., London, for veriﬁcation and this
is what a careful investigation reveals:

“I beg to acknowledge receipt of your
instructions respecting the above and to
report having this day visited Crook, when
I made inquiries.

“Miss English, Commercial Street, Crook,
who was well acquainted with the family of
the late Dr. R. Steel, informed me as fol-
lows :—

  
    
  

“Dr. Robert Steel, Red
H o u s e, Wheatbottom,
Crook, died on the 2nd of
November, 1931, and was
buried in the local ceme-
tery beside his son. The
doctor’s setter, ‘Shot,’ had
on occasions accompanied
the doctor to the son’s
grave. On the day of the
doctor’s death, the dog
was at the house of a
friend, but subsequently
it made frequent visits
to the cemetery unaccom-
panied and lay on its mas-
ter’s grave.

“Miss English showed
me some press photo-
graphs of the dog on the
grave, the best of which was a reproduction
in the Daily Mirror dated 2nd February,
1932. I would suggest that a copy of this
be obtained for the American correspond-
ent. (The picture we reproduce from the
Daily Mirror.)

“Mr. Jonathan Smith, sexton at Crook
cemetery, showed me the doctor’s grave
and related how the dog used to come and
lay on the doctor’s grave perhaps three or
four days a week. He duly arrived on the
morning that the press photographer came
to take a photograph and was not deterred
by his presence.”

For the Sake of the Child

What is the object of humane education?
To awaken and foster, above all in the
heart of the child, the principles of justice
and compassion toward all sentient life. At
ﬁrst particularly toward the world of ani-
mal life. And is this primarily for the sake
of the animal? No. Primarily for the sake
of the child. It is the reaction upon the
character of the child of the principles of
justice and compassion ﬁnding expression
in conduct and life that is the fundamental
thing in humane education. The child
trained to treat the lowly creatures about
him as he would like to be treated, fairly,
kindly, grows into a manhood governed
in its relation to his fellows in accordance
with these same high ideals. It cannot be
said too often that whatever humane Socie-
ties have done for animals they have done
vastly more for men, women, and children
by awakening in the soul the spirit of a
great and noble humanity. Mercy is always

twice blessed. It blesses him who gives and
him who takes.

 




 

 

Feb.1933 OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

 

 

. «We.

. 0“” ' ' . f:
:393‘“ '

- n
{= $3,!)

I
~§
.\

‘3"

..\\‘
\
J

  
  
 
 

III’
III/ .,
\
,7
I/Ifll"

\ \
”6
\

[1 I I’ N
am \\\\\
l\\\\\\‘
I

I

I

ﬁ 3

I
I

'u

ll

9"
’I
4/:

 

 

 

 

“ Mike” ' A Famous Goat

(Being the exact description of one little dog!)

MAY L. BAUCHLE

M A R Y G R A C E E N S E Y ILLIAM KENNEY was just a lad when his parents

I have a little frisky dog moved from Watertown, Wisconsin, to Minneapolis,
Wire-haired’fox terrier’he Minnesota, and he began his business career by pedling the
A handsome pup—and oh! he has daily papers upon the city streets. His two most cherished

A lofty pedigree!

He’s busied with aﬁairs of state,
He’d give a lot to know

What‘ makes the rabbits run so fast,
And why the breezes blow!

He has to see just what takes place,
And who has come to call,

And he is kept quite breathless, chasing
Shadows on the wall!

He barks—and barks—and barks—until
“Mike, st0p! Step, Mike!” I cry,

“There’s nothing there!” He ﬁxes me
With a disdainful eye.

Who wouldn’t bark at such a sight?
He saw the pixies pass!

 

He saw a kobold gray and grim, possessions were a rather dilapidated cart, the forerunner of
Atop a blade of gmﬁS! the roller coaster of today, and a much loved and fairly well
He saw a huge hobgoblin leap trained Billy goat.
me out an oak tree green! After some deliberation the boy hitched the goat to the cart
He heard the flowers whispeq» low and began hauling papers by this method. For several years
About the Fairy Queen! the two Billys were familiar objects upon the streets of the
Minnesota city. When his ambition outgrew his job as news-
He hhowg so much, and sees so much, boy, William Kenney sold his goat to a rancher living near
Things that I cannot see, Midvale, Montana, and then went into the ofﬁces of the Chi-
] am amused at him—but then, cago Great Western Railway as understudy to the telegraph
He’s more amused at me! operator. . ,
At times he waxes tolerant, Years later, when he had become vice—president of the Great
As one who can’t help seeing Northern Railway, the question of securing a trade mark for
That he is cleverer far as dog, the great system was presented to him. Instead of relegating
Than 1 as human being! the task to an employee he called in a commercial artist and

set to work. Suddenly, the story goes, he thought of his sturdy
friend, the Billy goat which had started him upon the ladder
which was to end in the chair of president of the road in which
he was interested. Nothing to do but Billy’s picture must be-
come a part of the trade mark.

So there he is today, Billy Kenney’s boy-time playmate,

painted upon hundreds of freight cars rolling from coast to
coast.

Knows the Birds and Animals

At the age of thirteen a boy in the Ozarks, Guy Greenwell,
Joplin, Mo., can identify seven hundred and ﬁfty birds and ani-
mals from pictures, and describe their habits, says a writer
in The Golden Age. He is in great demand every summer as
an instructor of Boy Scout and Y. M. C. A. groups and is able
to answer immediately and learnedly about 98 per cent of all
the questions put to him regarding bird life. His father is in
the poultry business, and the boy himself seems to be a natural-
born enthusiast on bird life in all its aspects.
WATCH WISE MR. WOODCHUCK, WEATHER PROPHET, ' '

ON CANDLEMAS DAY “Blessed are the merciful, for they shall obtain mercy."

 

 




July, 1933 OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

 

Tying up “Major”
MINNIE ANGELO

EDITOR’S NOTE: While we do not advise or con-
done the restraint of dogs by rope or chain, which
is an all too common practice, the true story which
follows well deserves careful consideration. It taught
Its writer such a lesson as seems Well worth passing
on to those who feel compelled to restrain the dog
by tying. .

AM,” asked Grandpa, “did you buy a
chain for that strange dog as I told you
to do?”

“I tied him, Gramp,” evaded Sam.

“What with?” insisted Grandpa.

“A piece of rope,” admitted Sam.

“Do you want Gramp to tell you a true
story?” asked his grandfather.

“Sure,” agreed Sam, for Grandpa’s true
stories were generally good.

“It’s about a dog. When I was a boy like
you, I was always dragging home stray
pets. Just as you do. My mother, like
yours, was very patient about it. I had all
kinds of pets, but as we had chickens and
ducks I had to chain up any strange dog
that I brought home, until we found out
Whether he would bother them, or eat eggs
from the nests.

“One day a big, young bird—dog followed
me home. He was hungry so we fed him.
I called him “Major.” Mother hoped he
would leave soon, but he didn’t so she said
I must chain him up.

“I did as you did just now. I tied him
with a rope, a knotty, pieced one. In the
morning he was gone, rope and all. I had
tied such a poor knot that he had worried
it loose. But he hadn’t touched an egg, a
duck or chicken. He had only gone away.
So we just thought that he had gone to his
own home, if he had one; or wandered
away, if he hadn’t.

“A couple of days later we boys went
hazel-nutting in the woods between our little
town and the next one beyond. As we raced
about and shouted, we found nuts, ﬂowers,
wasp nests, mountain beaver holes and
rabbit burrows. We had a wonderful time.

“We were rather tired and quiet as we
sat on a big log to eat our lunch. Suddenly
one of the boys whispered sharply, ‘Listen!’
We did, and a weak moan reached our ears.

“ ‘Somebody is hurt,’ said the boy.

 

YET ANOTHER STEEL TRAP VICTIM

So badly mangled was this dog after enduring ﬁve days’
torture by the steel trap that his leg had to be amputated
at the Springﬁeld Branch of the Angell Animal Hospital.
He is a living witness to the cruel and iniquitous trap.

“We were very startled until the sound
changed to a weak whine, not like a human
groan but dog-like. One of the boys whis-
tled softly and the whine grew more shrill.
Then a weak but hopeful ‘Yap! Yap!’ fol-
lowed it.

“We ran shouting toward the sound. Un-
der the end of a small log, covered with
limbs, Major crouched, not injured or shot,
as you might suppose but imprisoned by
that rope! A small knot in the end of it
had caught in a sharp fork of that log. It
had tightened into the crack, as the dog had
pulled to free himself. He had jumped over
the log and crawled under it, until he had
wound the rope around it so many times
that he crouched helpless against the log,
with collar touching it.

“He was hungry and miserable and had
a bad cold. It took father a week to cure
him. After that I used a chain on new dogs
and saw that the snap was properly hooked
into the loop. It was a lesson to me. I
grew to love Major so much that I was
grateful to have discovered him in time to
save him.”

Sam gazed wide-eyed at Grandpa.

“Gee Whiz, Grampa, there isn’t a chain
on the place. That’s the reason that I used
a rope. But the store isn’t closed yet. I’ll
go right now and buy one. You watch
Major for me until I get back, will you?”
and off he ran to buy a chain.

In making your will, please remember
the American Humane Education Society
of Boston, the ﬁrst of its kind in the world.

Springfield Auxiliary

TOO much cannot be said in praise of
the efforts of that ﬁne group of women
in Springﬁeld, Mass., who comprise the
Branch of the Women’s Auxiliary to the
Massachusetts S. P. C. A. They meet at
the Society’s Hospital building, and at the
annual gathering held May 10, there was
a large attendance with several guests from
Boston present. The chief speaker was Mr.
Albert A. Pollard, treasurer of the Mass.
S. P. C. A., who gave a stirring address,
emphasizing the need of humane education
and the value of such groups as the Wom-
en’s Auxiliaries in S. P. C. A. work.

Mrs. E dith Washburn
Clarke, president of the
Boston Auxiliary, spoke on
the trapping question. Re-
ports were presented by Mrs.
Donald A. Kibbe, president
of the Springﬁeld Auxiliary,
and by Theodore W. Pear-
son, general manager of the
Springﬁeld Branch and Hos-
pital. At the close of the
exercises, tea was served by
the hospitality committee.
Preceding the meeting, a
luncheon was enjoyed by the
guests at the Nyasset Club.

At a business meeting the
Springﬁeld Auxiliary elected
Mrs. James Gordon Gilkey as
corresponding secretary. The
other ofﬁcers, Mrs. Kibbe,
president, and Mrs. Aaron
Bagg, treasurer, elected at
the inception of the Auxiliary
in January, will continue to
serve until next May.

Page 103

Prizes Won in Verse Contest

Ohio Man Wins First, Virginia Woman
Second, out of 313 Entries

ENNETH BEECH JOHNSON of

Piqua, Ohio, won the ﬁrst prize, $25
cash, for the best poem of not more than 32
lines relating to animals, in the recent con-
test conducted by Our Dumb Animals. The
title of his poem is, “Only a Dog.” The
second prize, $15 cash, was won by Miss
Nettie Wysor, Dublin, Virginia, for her
poem, “N 0 Fear in Their Eyes.” Honorable
mention was awarded to Mrs. L. F. Mess-
man, Enid, Oklahoma, for her verse-s en-
titled, “Me or You,” and to Mrs. Joseph L.
Sturtevant, South Sudbury, Mass., for “Be
Kind.”

The contest, which was held in connection
with the observance of Be Kind to Animals
Week, elicited 313 entries from all but
seven states of the Union, three provinces
of Canada, and England. Forty-three manu-
scripts were received from Massachusetts,
81 from California, 30 from South Carolina,
27 from New York, 25 from Pennsylvania,
16 each from Colorado and Illinois, and ten
from Ohio. The editors of Our Dumb Ani-
mals selected the most promising of all the
manuscripts and submitted those to a well-
known literary man of Boston who elimin-
ated all but three of them. From these
three the winning titles were chosen. Be-
low we print Mr. Johnson’s offering:

Only a Dog
By KENNETH BEECH JOHNSON, Piqua, Ohio

Awarded ﬁrst prize, $25 cash, in prize contest of
OUR DUMB ANIMALS

“Only a dog,”

The Motorist said.

“Only a dog,”

As he onward sped;

Leaving the dog in the roadway—dead.
Only a dog,—I had loved and fed.

Only a dog,

We laid him away,

Only a dog

But I tried to pray:

“Goodbye, old pal—,” was all I could say.
Only a dog—but I cried that day.

Only a dog,

But a faithful friend.

Only a dog

And I could depend
On his love and trust to the very end.
Only a dog—but you comprehend.

Only a dog,

And I know he’ll be

Only a dog

Waiting faithfully—

Waiting to welcome me gleefully—
Only a dog—for eternity.

For Humane Workers

The American Humane Education So-
ciety is collecting a trust fund for the
beneﬁt of those who have spent their lives
in the service of promoting humane educa-
tion.

So far gifts to the amount of $6,067 have
been received. If you wish to contribute,
please make checks payable to Treasurer,
American Humane Education Society, 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston, and specify that
the amount is for the Humane Education
Trust Fund. The Massachusetts S. P. C. A.
also is raising a similar fund.

 

 




 

 

 

 

DECEMBER 1933 PRICE 10 CENTS

\

 

 

Ifﬂ

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THE MASSACHUSETTS SOCIETY FOR THE

PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS
AND THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY

 

 

 

 




 

 

Jan.1933

 

 

 

 

   

 

Two Kittens

LULA B. MCALLISTER

I found a little cat one day
And kept it for a pet,

And ’cause I learned to care for it
I’ve got that kitty yet.

He has to have his three square meals
The same as I have mine,

And for a water dish that’s full
He does not have to pine.

I brush him and I comb him, too,
And he will pur'r and purr,

As if he tried his thanks to say,
When I smooth out his fur.

Now Betty Mae, across the street,
Once had a kitten, too,

It’s meals were over half forgot,
Although he’d meow and meow.

An empty box on windy porch
Was all the bed he had;

Dry drinking-dish and unbrushed fur,
All helped to make him sad.

Then Betty cried when kitty died,
Her helpless little pet,

But if she’d learned to care for it
She’d have her kitten yet.

Training and Working Elephants
JOHN H. JOLLIEF

N the island of Ceylon, south of India, are many herds of
© wild elephants which may be captured and readily tam-ed.
Native hunters and keepers have found that preparing the
animal for his various tasks is a comparatively simple matter
for most elephants respond quickly to kindness. Kindness
and petting with a reasonable degree of ﬁrmness and no
cruelty soon cause the elephant to have respect and real affec-
tion for the keeper. He will be very obedient to his master
in return for kind treatment. He also insists that he be not
overworked, that he be regularly and properly fed, that he
be given two baths each day, and that he be permitted to rest
in a quiet, cool, and retired spot.

In addition to the baths the elephant enjoys being shampooed
with a brick, a coconut husk, or a piece of burnt clay. This
treatment, with an occasional application of oil, adds much to
keeping him in good spirits for his hard daily routine.

The chief employments of the tamed elephants are clearing
forest lands, working in the brick-yards, carrying and piling
timber, stone, and other heavy objects, drawing wagons, culti-
vating the land, and carrying their masters on their backs in
ceremonial processions. The elephant does his work with great
care. If he thinks the ground is unsafe or the load too heavy
he refuses to go ahead with the work. If urged too much he
becomes quite angry.

The lifetime of the average captive elephant is seventy years.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

I
P .J
I

 

Mme
twig

' _ '3 ~.
1/": iii
1.“ \

N“

I
\\“

\\
“

\‘
‘>/’I
’/

—§:

o

\l

n 1);?"

’?/r

I?
\\\
\x‘

.-

s‘l'll
I”?

’f
,2:
I. ~
y?‘
’ II I
t\\\

937
,I
I; .’
”ﬂu“

 

 

Photo by Bachrach

 

Birds

. HE arrival of winter with its storms of snow and sleet
T is a reminder for all bird friends that the chickadees,
nuthatches, sparrows, blue jays, woodpeckers and many
others that choose to remain with us through the cold
weather will have difﬁculty in ﬁnding sufficient food to sus-
tain themselves without help. A lot of perfectly good food
for hungry birds is allowed to go to waste, The crumbs and
leavings from thousands of tables would go far in helping
them‘through a trying season. There are many who make it
a practice of feeding the birds in winter and derive much
pleasure in the effort. Pieces of suet fastened to a tree,
grain, seeds and crumbs scattered in suitable places, a feed—
ing shelf on the window ledge or attached to a tree—there
are many ways to do a great service for these needy ones in
times of stress. If everyone who has the opportunity would
spread a “bird table” in a convenient, sheltered and secure
place, it would be‘but paying back a fraction of the debt we
owe to our little friends in feathers. Try it and be assured.

Feed your cat regularly. Good fresh meat cut up ﬁne, cooked
ﬁsh with all the bones carefully taken out—different kinds of
vegetables and cereals and plenty of milk, also grass and occa—
sionally catnip. Dishes should be kept very clean. Always
leave a dish of fresh water where your cat can reach it.

 




 

 

July, 1933

.1] , . -

11:”

./

I F // ~
7%

l

 

Founded by Geo. T. Angell. Incorporated March, 1868

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds
JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman, Chase Harris Forbes
Corporation
CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President, United Shoe
Machinery Corporation
PHILIP STOCKTON, President, First National Bank of
Boston

Prosecuting Ofﬁcers in Boston
Telephone (Complaintsl, Ambulances) Longwood 6100
L. WILLARD WALKER, Chief Oﬁicer

HARRY L. ALLEN DAVID A. BOLTON

HARVEY R. FULLER HOWARD WILLAND
WALTER B. POPE

County Prosecuting Ofﬁcers

HERMAN N. DEAN, Boston,

Middlesex, Norfolk and Plymouth
FRED T. VICKERS, Lynn Eastern Essex
WILLIAM W. HASWELL, Methuen, Western Essex
THEODORE W. PEARSON, Springﬁeld,

Hampden, Hampshire and Franklin

ROBERT L. DYSON, Worcester, Worcester
WINFIELD E. DUNHAM, New Bedford, Bristol
HAROLD G. ANDREWS, Hyannis,

Barnstable, Dukes and Nantucket
EDWIN D. MOODY, Pittsﬁeld, Berkshire

Rest Farm for Horses and Small Animal Shelter,
Met uen

W. W. HASWELL, Superintendent

Women’s Auxiliary of the Mass. S. P. C. A., 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston—MRS. EDITH WASHBURN
CLARKE, Pres.; MRS. A. J. FURBUSH, Treas.

Springﬁeld Branch—MRS. DONALD C. KIBBE, Pres.;
MRS. AARON BAGG, Treas.

Winchester Branch—MRS. RICHARD S. TAYLOR,
Pres. ; MISS BESSIE SMALL, Treas.

MONTHLY REPORT OF OFFICERS
Miles traveled by humane Ofﬁcers. . 15,584

Cases investigated .............. ' 561
Animals examined .............. 5,203
Number of prosecutions .......... 11
Number of convictions .......... 9
Horses taken from work ......... 38
Horses humanely put to sleep . . . . 46

Small animals humanely put to
sleep ........................

Stock—yards and Abattoirs

Animals inspected .............. 42,448
Cattle, swine and sheep humanely
put to sleep ................ 14

1,344

The Massachusetts Society for the Pre-
vention of Cruelty to Animals has been re-
membered in the wills of A. Josephine Ladd
of Malden, Joseph J. Carew of Cambridge,
Frank W. Peckham of Watertown, Sarah
Bowman Van Ness of Lexington, and Vesta
Evans Dow of Salisbury.

June 13, 1933.

I C
O

The class had been instructed to write an
essay on winter. One child’s attempt read
as follows:

“In winter it is very cold. Many old
people die in winter, and many birds also
go to a warmer climate.” ——Tit-Bits

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

Angell Memorial Animal Hospita
and ‘
Dispensary for Animals

184 Longwood Avenue Telephone, Longwood 6100

Veterinarians

. F. DAILEY, V.M.D., Chief
. H. SCHNEIDER, V.M.D., Asst. Chief
. F. SCHROEDER, D.V.M.
. M. EVANS, D.V.S.
. B. SCHNELLE, V.M.D.
O. MUNSON, V.M.D.
HARRY L. ALLEN, Superintendent

Springﬁeld Branch

53-57 Bliss Street, Springﬁeld, Mass.

THEODORE W. PEARSON, General Manager-
A. R. EVANS, V.M.D., Veterinarian

amgmwm

 

 

 

HOSPITAL REPORT FOR MAY
Including Springﬁeld Branch

Hospital Dispensary
Cases entered 724 Cases 2,584
Dogs 547 ‘ Dogs 2,141
Cats 166 Cats 373
Birds 7 Birds 56
Horses 3 Rabbits 8
Rabbit 1 Horses 2
Foxes 2
Fish 1
Monkey 1

Operations 1,041

Hospital cases since opening, Mar.

1, 1915 ........................ 111,281
Dispensary Cases ................ 249,662
Total ......................... 360,943

MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A. IN THE
COURTS

Summary of Prosecutions for May

A defendant who had the custody of
ﬁfty-seven calves was charged with trans-
porting them in an unnecessarily cruel and
inhumane manner. Upon a plea of nolo
he was found guilty and ﬁned $75.

For selling a horse that was unﬁt for
labor, offender was ﬁned $5.

For cruelty to a pet rat in causing it to
be run through a wringing machine, a
seven-and-a-half—year—old boy was sentenced
to the Lyman School.

For cruelly beating a dog, a defendant
paid a ﬁne of $15.

Failing to provide proper food for ﬁve
cattle, four swine and four calves, defend-
ant was found guilty and his case was
continued from day to day for six months.

For a Similar offense involving twelve
young cattle and one hog, a like sentence
was imposed.

Cruelly beating and mutilating a dog by
shooting animal, defendant was ﬁned $15
and given a month’s time to pay.

Working a horse that was unﬁt for labor,
Offender was convicted and case was ﬁled.
He had immediately disposed of the ani-
mal after receiving summons to court.

For causing a dog to be cruelly beaten
and mutilated by gunshot, defendant was
ﬁned $15 and given a month to pay ﬁne.

For placing poison for the purpose of
killing quadrupeds (dogs), a defendant
was bound over by the Court to the July
term of the Grand Jury and in default of
bail was committed to jail.

Our readers are urged to clip from “Our
Dumb Animals” various articles and re-
quest their local editors to republish.
Copies so mutilated will be made good by
us upon application.

Page 105

Annual Meeting of Auxiliary

Women of M. S. P. C. A. Re-elect Ofﬁcers
and Listen to Able Speakers

HE very eﬂ‘icient Auxiliary of the

Massachusetts S. P. C. A. held its
annual meeting on May 23 at Hotel Ken-
more, Boston. There was a representative
attendance at the business meeting, fol-
lowed by an even larger gathering for the
annual luncheon. Mrs. Edith Washburn
Clarke presided with her usual grace, and
presented as speakers Mrs. John D. Kimball,
second vice-president of the Massachusetts
Federation of Women’s Clubs; President
Francis H. Rowley of the Mass. S. P. C.
A.; Mrs. Donald C. Kibbe, president of the
Springﬁeld Branch of the Women’s Auxili-
ary of the Society; Miss Agnes Carr of the
Boston Traveler who read an original poem
on kindness to animals; and Commissioner
William G. O’Hare of the Penal Institutions
Department of Boston, who made the chief
address on character training for modern
youth. Mrs. Mary Nevery contributed sev-
eral groups of songs. Other guests included
Mrs. George Sabin of the Springﬁeld
Branch, Mrs. Rowley and Miss Rowley,
Treasurer and Mrs. Pollard and Secretary
and Mrs. Richardson.

These ofﬁcers were re-e-lected at the busi-
nessmeeting: Mrs. Clarke, Newton, presi-
dent; Mrs. Arthur W. Hurlburt, Somer-
ville, ﬁrst vice-president; Mrs. William J.
McDonald, Boston, second vice-president;
Mrs. A. J. Furbush, Allston, treasurer;
Mrs. John Dykeman, Brighton, correspond-
ing secretary; and Miss Helen Potter,
Brookline, recording secretary. Mrs. Clarke
received many compliments upon her very
successful conduct of the affairs of the
Auxiliary.

On May 11 the Auxiliary held its mid-
season annual Hospitality Day at the head-
quarters building of the Society, 180 Long-
wood Avenue, with an unusual attendance.
The affair was honored by the presence of
Mrs. Joseph B. Ely who assisted in pour-
ing at the afternoon tea, of which Mrs.
McDonald was chairman. The generously
patronized bridge was in charge of Mrs.
Frank Seymore Hobbs, and the food table
was presided over by Mrs. Herbert Prescott.
Music by Miss Katherine Perkins Beale,
harpist, and Miss Hope Wright, violinist,
added to the day’s enjoyment. There was a
distinguished list of hostesses, of which
Mrs. Dykeman was chairman, and a repre-
sentative group of society women who
served as patronesses. All the arrange-
ments were under the supervision of Mrs.
Clarke, president, who was the general
chairman.

Relief for Horses

The Massachusetts S. P. C. A. will main-
tain as many water stations as possible for
horses in Boston during the hot weather.
We know that this service is relied upon
and appreciated by both drivers and horses.
It provides the great relief that otherwise
could not be had. Contributions are urgent-
ly needed to support this service. They will
all be gratefully acknowledged.

Remember the Massachusetts S. P. C. A.

in your will.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

9

.‘h.

Page 32

Free Christmas Dinners

for Work Horses

HE Massachusetts S. P. C. A. repeated

its custom of seventeen years by pro-

viding free Christmas dinners for
working horses upon the streets of Boston.
On the day before the holiday two large
trucks generously laden with oats, corn, cut
apples and carrots were dispatched from the
Society’s headquarters by different routes
across the city to points where the great-
est number of horses could be reached.

At Haymarket and India Squares which
have proved excellent stations for distri-
buting the bags of feed and affording space
for teams to tarry as time permitted, the
Christmas dinners were distributed. “Ped-
lers’ Row” in the market section was
visited at mid—afternoon and nearly a hun-
dred animals were there supplied with good
dinners before they scattered for places
among the Saturday night marketing
crowds. Drivers and their helpers were gen-
erously served with hot coffee, doughnuts
and sandwiches through the day. More than
400 bags of feed were presented to grate—
ful recipients.

The “Horses’ Christmas,” as observed
annually by the S. P. C. A., is one of the
institutions of Boston. It strikes a respon-
sive chord in the hearts of many who are
glad to contribute something towards its
continuance, even in spite of hard times
and adverse conditions brought about by in-
creased motor trafﬁc. It originated here
and, as an object lesson, appealing to the
eyes and hearts of the thousands that wit-
ness it and have an actual part in it, it is
both a popular Christmas observance and
a public demonstration of humanity to an-
imals.

Said the Christian Science Monitor of
this year’s humane celebration:

“And last but not least comes the Christ—
mas Day dinner for Boston work horses.
As is the custom on Christmas Day every
year, these faithful and unheralded steeds,
who toil through the year, day in and day
out, asking nothing but kindness, are given
a real horse’s dinner with all the “ﬁxin’s”
by the Massachusetts Society for the Pre-
vention of Cruelty to Animals. Six of Bos-
ton’s best and biggest work horses, draw—
ing two large wagons upon each of which
is a decorated tree, are driven to India
and Haymarket Squares. Here the happy
horses and their masters gather “round the
banquet table.” Fresh carrots, apples, oats,
corn on the cob, and a dessert of loaf sugar
are distributed to the horses, while the
drivers are given sandwiches and a warm
drink.”

To all who aided in making another
“Horses’ Christmas” an outstanding holi-
day feature, grateful thanks are extended.

In making your will, kindly note that the corporate title of our Society is “The
Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.”
second incorporated (March, 1868) Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals in the country. It has no connection with any other similar Society.

Any bequest especially intended for the beneﬁt of the Angell Memorial Animal
Hospital should, nevertheless, be made to The Massachusetts Society for the Pre-
vention of Cruelty to Animals “for the use of the Hospital,” as the Hospital is
not incorporated but is the property of that Society and is conducted by it.

. FORM OF BEQUEST

I give to The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals
(or to The American Humane Education Society) the sum of ................
dollars (01‘, if other property, describe the property).

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Washington’s Fine Horses

HE best blood of England had long

been drawn upon to improve the horses
at Mount Vernon. It is not astonishing that
these horses attracted the favorable opinion
of the distinguished Marquis de Chastellux,
a major general under Count de Rocham-
beau, who recites in his memoirs his experi-
ence at Washington’s headquarters in New
Jersey:

Whilst we were at breakfast horses were
brought, and General Washington gave
orders for the army to get under arms at
the head of the camp. Two horses were
brought which were a present from the
State of Virginia; he mounted one himself
and gave me the other. Mr. Lynch and M.
de Montesquieu had each of them also a
very handsome blood horse such as we could
not ﬁnd at Newport for any money. We
joined at length the right. of the army,
where we saw the Pennsylvanian line; it
was composed of two brigades, each form-
ing three battalions, without reckoning the
light infantry, which was detached from the
Marquis de Lafayette. General Wayne,
who commanded it, was on horseback, as
well as the brigadiers and colonels. They
were all well mounted. The ofﬁcers also had
a very military air; they were all arranged
and saluted very gracefully.

>1 :1: >1:

The weather being fair, on the 26th I got
on horseback, after breakfasting with the
General. He was so attentive as to give
me the horse which he rode the day of my
arrival, which I had greatly commended. I
found him as good as he is handsome; but
above all, perfectly well 'broke and well
trained, having a good mouth, easy in hand
and stopping short in a gallop without bear-
ing the bit. I mentioned these minute par—
ticulars because it is the General himself
who breaks all his own horses; and he is a
very excellent and bold horseman, leaping
the highest fences and going extremely
quick without standing up on his stirrups,
bearing on the bridle or letting his horse
run wild, circumstances which our young
men look upon as so essential a part of
English horsemanship that they would
rather break a leg or arm than renounce
them.

General Washington’s stature is noble
and lofty; he is well made and exactly pro-
portioned; his physiognomy mild and agree-
able, but such as to render it impossible to
speak particularly of any of his features, so
that in quitting him you have only the recol-
lection of a ﬁne face. He has neither a
grave nor a familiar air, his brow is some-
times marked with thought, but never with
inquietude; in inspiring respect, he inspires
conﬁdence, and his smile is always the smile
of benevolence.

 

It is the

 

 

Feb. 1933

Charter Member Leaves
Fund for Horses’ Christmas

TRUST fund of $10,000, the interest

from which will be used by the Kansas
City Humane Society in carrying on the
annual Christmas dinner for horses, is pro-
vided in the will of Mrs. Emma Robinson
of Olathe, Kansas, who died last December.
The fund is to be known as the Emma
Robinson Horses’ Christmas Trust.

The annual Christmas dinner for horses
is now a Kansas City institution which Mrs.
Robinson helped to establish twenty-four
years ago. The fund will be administered
by the Fidelity National Bank and Trust
Company of that city. Mrs. Robinson also
left $30,000 to Mercy Hospital, an institu-
tion for children.

Mrs. Robinson became a charter member
of the Band of Mercy in 1882, and was a
frequent correspondent of the American
Humane Education Society. She saw the
Kansas City Band of Mercy grow to a mem-
bership of 25,000. For forty years she con-
stantly wore her Band of Mercy pin, even
during the last few months of her life, when
she was conﬁned to her bed, a victim of
paralysis.

JOHN EDWARD HICKS

Prizes for Animal Pictures

E offer three prizes to boys and

girls under ﬁfteen for the best pic-
tures of animals, taken by them, with their
own camera-s, before April 1, 1933. These
may include domestic animals, wild animals,
birds, insects, the common toad, practically
all animals including the dog and the cat.
The pictures must be taken by the boy or
girl under ﬁfteen, accompanied by a signed
statement from'a parent, guardian, teacher,
or other adult to that fact. The ﬁrst prize,
$10; the second, $5; and the third, $3.

The object is to encourage the study of
animal life with the camera, to quicken the-
love for many of nature’s lowly children
and foster the spirit of kindness toward
them. Pictures should be addressed, Editor,
Onr Dumb Animals, 180 Longwood Avenue,
Boston, Mass., and mailed, with postage
fully prepaid, to reach that address not
later than April 1, 1933.

 

Our Dumb Animals

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston ofﬁce; 180 Longwood Avenue.

Address all communications to Boston.

TERMS

One dollar per year. Postage free to any part of
the world.

Humane Societies and Agents are invited to cor-
respond with us for terms on large orders.

All dollar subscriptions sent direct to the ofﬁce en-
title the sender to membership in either of our two
Societies.

RATES OF MEMBERSHIP IN
THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
OR THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.

Active Life $100 00 Active Annual $10 00

Associate Life 50 00 Associate Annual 5 00

Sustaining 20 00 Annual 1 00
Children’s $0.75

Checks and other payments may be sent to ALBERT
11;. tPOLLARD, Treasurer, 180 Longwood Avenue,
os on.

Manuscripts should be addressed to the Editor,
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston.

 

 




 

“’T““-‘ m‘a'

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

FEBRUARY 1933

 

 

‘

\‘

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

DINNERS FOR HORSES

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THE MASSACHUSETTS SOCIETY FOR THE

PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS
AND THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

PagelOl;
Our Dumb Animals

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston ofﬁce; 180 Longwood Av-
enue, Boston, Mass., to which all communicatlons
should be addressed.

Dr. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON, Editor '
WILLIAM M. MORRILL, Assxstant

 

JULY, 1933

 

FOR TERMS, see back cover.

AGENTS to take orders for Our Dumb Animals are
wanted everywhere. Liberal commissions are offered.

EDITORS of all periodicals who receive this pub-
lication this month are invited to reprint any of the
articles with or without credit.

MANUSCRIPTS relating to animals, particularly
prose articles of about three hundred words, are solic-
ited. We do not wish to consider prose manuscripts
longer than 800 words, nor verse in excess of thirty-
six lines. The shorter the better. All manuscripts
should be typewritten and an addressed envelope with
full return postage enclosed with each offering.

 

 

The Electric Stunner for Pigs

E have received from the secretary

of the Royal S. P. C. A., Captain
Fairholme, a copy of its approval of the
stunning device for pigs. The electric cur-
rent is the one now used in many abattoirs
in Bavaria and throughout Germany, a low
voltage with an interrupted current. The
ofﬁcial statement of approval follows:

“The Council of the Royal Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, fully
realizing its responsibility with regard to
the prevention of unnecessary suffering in
the slaughter of animals used for food, has
for some time conducted a meticulous in-
vestigation into the use and effects of the
Electrolethaler as 'a method of ensuring un-
consciousness prior to and during the
slaughter of pigs and has been in close
touch with certain well-known scientists,
physiologists and pathologists.

“As the result of these independent in-
vestigations, the Society is satisﬁed and
has, therefore, decided to recommend the
use on pigs of the Electrolethaler as an
alternative to the Humane Killer, provided
that the proper precautions are taken in
regard to the provision of the apparatus
and use.”

This same device we have reported to
our readers is being given a careful testing
in one of the large abattoirs in Chicago for
use both with swine and cattle. In a letter
from headquarters of the industry in Chi—
cago, dated May 8 ultimo, in answer to
our inquiry as to the progress being made,
We were told that “after numerous experi-
ments at the plant of Swift & Company, a
method has been devised for driving swine
in single ﬁle through a narrow runway
which the Committee feels will prove en-
tirely satisfactory for directing hogs into
some type of conveyor upon which they
will be restrained while being electrically
stunned.” This is the most encouraging
news we have had for some time.

Across the water any new and humane
method is much easier of practical use be-
cause of the smaller number of animals
slaughtered, and the fact that the major-
Ity of the animals are more or less domes-
ticated. Here we slaughter by the thou-
sands daily in our great abattoirs, where
there the daily number is relatively small.
The National Committee on Humane Slaugh-
ter, of which the writer is chairman, begs
our readers not to lose hope of living to

OUR DUMB

see humaner methods at last prevailing
here. We keep in constant correspondence
with the Institute of American Meat Pack-
ers, the organization representing some 200
of the larger abattoirs of the country.

Supporting Schools by Bull-
fights

HE Houston Post gave its readers on

May 14 the astounding news that a
great bull-ﬁght was to be staged at Reynosa,
Mexico, for the beneﬁt of the schools of that
city. True, Reynosa is in Mexico, but the
gateway to Texas is just across the border
at McAllen, Texas, and the railroads from
Texas are to run special trains to the ﬁght.
Of ﬁne educational value this must have
been for the children in these schools! The
disgrace falls not only upon Mexico, but
upon the railroads of Texas that sought
to proﬁt by this relic of barbarism.

To furnish funds for schools by a bull-
ﬁght reminds us of what a friend once. told
us who was present in Spain with a group
of people among whom was the Prince of
Wales, who later became Edward VII.
Some one proposed that they organize a
society for the prevention of cruelty to ani-
mals, and immediately a lady, enthusiastic
over the project, said, “Yes, splendid, we
can arrange for a bull-ﬁght to raise the
necessary money.” The Prince and other
members of the group, of course, turned
down the suggestion. The Reynosa bull—
ﬁght was advertised as one of the greatest
the manager ever staged.

Wagner’s Love for Dogs

Madame Wagner told Judith Gauthier
that the composition of “Die Meistersing-
ers” was delayed for months because Wag-
ner had taken in a sick, abandoned dog to
care for and cure. Bitten by the dog, the
wound in his hand became so serious that
he could not use a pen. His patience was
put to an exasperating test, but the dog
was not allowed to suffer from the great
musician’s devoted care.

0

The Governor of Massachusetts, we re-
gret to say, signed the bill passed by the
Legislature last month which largely nulli-
ﬁes the value of our Anti-Steel Trap law for
which more than 600,000 people of the state
voted in 1930 with a majority of 327,000.
The sportsmen’s vote and that of some of
the farmers seem to mean more than that
of the humane people of the Commonwealth.

When you read that the Massachusetts
Legislature has taken the teeth out of our
Anti—Steel Trap law, remember it was in
the face of the fact that traps that kill
instantly and without suffering were
thoroughly demonstrated before the com-
mittee that stood with the trappers and
“so-called” sportsmen.

All honor to the memory of Clarence
Henry Howard of Boston, once president
of the Commonwealth Steel Company, who
once refused a $2,000,000 contract to make
shells. So barbarous was war to him that

he wanted no share in the proﬁts it might
bring him.

ANIMALS

July, 1933

Good News from Italy

OR years tourists, particularly from

England and America, have told sad
tales of the ill-treatment of animals in Italy.
No European country has been so criticized
for its disregard of animal welfare as this
land so crowded with historic interest. But
the tide has been rapidly turning of late
toward a better day for bird and beast
in Italy. A report from the National Italian
Federation of Animal Societies of Riviera
Central, issued by the S. P. C. A. of Alassio,
contains the following extracts of a circular
from the Minister of Justice to all Magis-
trates, dated at Rome:

“Article 491 of the Penal Code forbids all
cruelty to animals. Working old, lame, or
unﬁt horses and mules, overloading and ill-
treating them and keeping them under bad
conditions, also the blinding of birds, and
torturing any bird or animals.

“We intend to have these rules for the
moral education of the people rigidly en—
forced and we count on the activity of all
the Authorities to carry out the wishes of
the Government in every way.”

(Signed) ROCCO

Mussolini has certainly not forgotten the
birds and beasts of Italy.

Winning the Birds

The paragraphs we quote below are. from
a local paper and tell of one of the most
attractive sylvan homes we have ever visited
—the home of friends and members of our
Society in Sudbury, Mass. It shows what
can be done by lovers of birds to win their
presence about a home:

Bird lovers will be interested to know
that many birds found food and shelter at
Brookledge, South Sudbury, bird sanctuary
of Joseph and Louise Sturtevant, after the
recent and unexpected blizzard.

Birds of many varieties hastened to the
feast, and, by the number noted, every bird
must have told another friend, because the
gathering was so large and varied.

Birds are fed every day at Brookledge
throughout the year. There is always suet,
mixed grain, doughnuts in little wire hold—
ers, bread crumbs—everything a bird or
squirrel could ever hope for. Robins ﬁnd
winter berries of all kinds.

Among the birds seen were many juncos,
chicadees, downy woodpeckers, four rob-
ins, eight b1uebirds,_two yellow-hammers,
numerous song and fox sparrows, one vireo,
blue jays, and even a ﬂock of starlings for
a brief call. Gray squirrels, mallard ducks,
and Canadian geese are always at home at
Brookledge. Red-breasted and white-breasted
nuthatches were also in evidence, and even
the phoebes balanced on a little wire fence,
looking on, thinking what a happy party it
was.

Dogs or Flowers

At Topeka, Kansas, complaints having
been made by the ﬂorists of the damage done
their gardens by trespassing dogs, the city
authorities, probably anxious to avoid de-
ciding whether or not all dogs should be re-
strained on owners’ premises, submitted the
question to a referendum. The voters cast
20,979 ballots. The dogs won by a ma-
jority of 1,017.

 




 

Page 11; I

Ellie iﬁanh nf merry

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary
E. A. MARYOTT, State Organizer

PLEDGE

I will try to be kind to all living creatures and try
to protect them from cruel usage.

The American Humane Education Society will send
to every person who forms a Band of Mercy of thirty
members, and sends the name chosen for the Band and
the name and post-ofﬁce address of the president who
has been duly elected, special Band of Mercy literature
and a gilt badge for the president.

See inside front cover for prices of literature and
Band of Mercy supplies.

NEW BANDS OF MERCY

Eight hundred and ﬁfty-eight new Bands
of Mercy were reported during November.
Of these, 264 were in Illinois, 140 in Massa-
chusetts, 123 in Vermont, 68 in South Caro-
lina, 61 in Texas, 53 in Georgia, 46 in Rhode
Island, 32 in Virginia, 27 in Iowa, 11 in
Newfoundland, 11 in Oregon, nine in Cali-
fornia, ﬁve in Tennesse, four in Pennsyl-
vania, and one each in Florida, Louisiana,
Minnesota and New Jersey.

Total number Bands of Mercy organized
by Parent American Society, 191,207

Scott’s Love of Animals

N his earlier days none of his horses
liked to be fed except by their master,
writes Richard H. Hutton in his Life of Sir
Walter Scott. When “Brown Adam” was
saddled, and the stable-door opened, the

‘ horse would trot round to the leaping-on .

stone of his own accord, to be mounted, and
was quite intractable under any one but
Scott. Scott’s life might well be fairly di-
vided—just as history is divided into
reigns — by the succession of his horses and
dogs. The reigns of “Captain,” “Lieuten-

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

ant,” Brown Adam, “Daisy,” divide at least
the period up to Waterloo; while the reigns
of “Sybil Grey,” and the “Covenanter,” or
“Douce Davie,” divide the period of Scott’s
declining years. During the brilliant period
of the earlier novels we hear less of Scott’s
horses; but of his de-erhounds there is an
unbroken succession. “Camp,” “Maida” (the
“Bevis” of Woodstock), and “Nimrod,”
reigned successively between Sir Walter’s
marriage and his death. It was Camp ‘on
whose death he relinquished a dinner invi-
tation previously accepted, on the ground
that the death of “an old friend” rendered
him unwilling to dine out; Maida to whom
he erected a marble monument, and Nim-
rod of whom he spoke so affectingly as too
good a dog for his diminished fortunes dur-

ing his absence in Italy on the last hopeless‘

journey.

The lizard is not disturbed if he loses his
tail, because he will quickly grow another
one and sometimes two.

An Interesting Fountain
ANTONIA J. STEMPLE

One of the characteristics of European
cities and towns which impresses every
visitor from this side of the water is the
number and artistic quality of the foun-
tains, which are found in the public squares,
the parks and gardens, and at strategic
points on the streets. Europeans every-
where long since seem to have realized the
effectiveness and the beauty and orna-
mental possibilities of fountains of every
type, and since the earliest times have made
a practice of erecting them. Many of these
public fountains are world famous, having
been designed by some of the most eminent
artists and sculptors. Nearly all of them
have some special
signiﬁcance 0r ap-
peal. Naturally, his-
torical or legendary
subjects predomin-

to perpetuate the
memory of exploits
of national heroes.

But others, especi-
ally in Germany and
in Italy, have a sim—
ple human interest.
For instance, there
is this fountain in
L u c e r n e, Switzer-
land—one of the
favorite beauty
spots of this lovely
land of snow-capped
mountains and azure
lakes, which immedi-
ately provokes a
smile. The accom-
panying picture
clearly depicts the
pretty sentiment of
the thing, while the
big St. Bernard dog
who is quenching his
thirst, seems to be
as appreciative as
the humans who
pass by. This foun-
tain stands on the
quay along the lake

ON THE QUAY, LUCERNE, SWITZERLAND front.

ate, while others aim,

Jan.1933

Prizes for Photographs

Cash Offers to Children for Pictures of
Animals Taken with Their Own Cameras

Y special request we are extending

our offer of three prizes to the boys
and girls under ﬁfteen who read Our Dumb
Animals, or their friends, for the best pic-
tures of animals, taken by them, with their
own cameras, to April 1, 1933. These
will include domestic animals, wild animals,
birds, insects, the common toad, practically
all animals including the dog and the cat.
The pictures must be taken by the boy or
girl under ﬁfteen, accompanied by a certi.-
ﬁed statement from a parent, guardian,
teacher, or other adult to that fact. The
ﬁrst prize, $10; the second, $5; and the
third, $3.

The object is to encourage the study of
animal life with the camera, to quicken the
love for many of nature’s lowly children and
foster the spirit of kindness toward them.
Pictures should be addressed, Editor, Our
Dumb Animals, 180 Longwood Avenue,
Boston, Mass, and mailed, with postage
fully prepaid, to reach that address not
later than April 1, 1933.

The results will be announced during Be
Kind to Animals Week, April 17 - 22, 1933,
and the prize-winning pictures will be pub-

lished in Our Dumb Animals for June.

“ Brothers Still”

Written for Album of Autographs of Famous
Friends. Awarded at World’s Day Celebration,
October 4, 1932.

Who that has marked the white owl’s ﬂight,
0r blessed the lark at noon;
0r listened of a summer night
And startled at the loon.
Who that has browsed with blunt-nosed
sheep,
Or spied an adder drink;
0r seen a baby skunk asleep,
Or heard the bob-o—link—

Who so has fared and felt no free
Delight within him’run,

Then of the great freemasonry
Be sure he is not one.

But if his sentient ardor flow
For things that pad and fly

With you as well, oh! surely know
He hath aﬁinity. ~

America and England breed-
Those who are brothers still,

For that the beasts they love, and heed
Bird music on the hill.

JOHN GALSWORTHY
Winner of the Nobel Prize for 1932

Remember the American. Humane Edu-

cation Society in your will.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Pagel52
Our Dumb Animals

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston ofﬁce; 180 Longwood Av-
enue, Boston, Mass., to which all communications
should be addressed.

Dr. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON, Editor
WILLIAM M. MORRILL, Assistant

 

OCTOBER, 1933

 

FOR TERMS, see back cover.

AGENTS to take orders for Our Dumb Animals are
wanted everywhere. Liberal commissions are offered.

. EDITORS of all periodicals who receive this pub-
llcation this month are invited to reprint any of the
articles with or without credit.

MANUSCRIPTS relating to animals, particularly
prose articles of about three hundred words, are solic-
ited. We do not wish to consider prose manuscripts
longer than 800 words, nor verse in excess of thirty-
six lines. The shorter the better. All manuscripts
should be typewritten and an addressed envelope with
full return postage enclosed with each offering.

 

 

 

He Went to Prison for It

OR cruelty to animals? No, for preach-

ing against it. It was the Rev. James
Granger, vicar of Shiplake, England. He
was reproved by his Bishop, denounced by
his congregation for prostituting the pulpit
by bringing into it a sermon against ill-
treating animals. That was what his ﬁrst
sermon upon this subject cost him and this
was in 1772. The second sermon of similar
nature sent him to prison. This is what the
Golden Era tells us. If we are ever fortu-
nate enough to reach the place where that
good man has gone, we should wonderfully
well like to meet him, but probably he’ll be
too near the front seats for the most of us
modern humanitarians ever to make his
acquaintance.

Michael Crowley

He was connected with the Boston police
force forty-ﬁve years, during eighteen of
these he was Superintendent. His sudden
death has brought a deep sense of loss and
genuine sorrow to multitudes of people in
this and other states. Often we have called
upon him for assistance and co-operation
and always found him a gracious and loyal
friend to our cause. It was a pleasure to
look into his kind and genial face and feel
the sincerity of his friendship. Trying as
was the service he rendered the public, he
kept up to the very end his good name and

a character loved and honored by all who
knew him.

Mrs. Estelle T. Warner

This life-long friend of animals, formerly
of Brookline and Boston, has “passed to
where beyond these voices there is peace.”
For years she gave generously, unselﬁshly
of herself and her means to the welfare of
all birds and beasts that came within the
compass of her knowledge. Her later years
would have been less lonely, less hard ﬁ-
nancially, had she thought more of herself
and conserved the abundant resources that
would have assured her comfort and care
when health failed her. To the very last it
was the interest in suffering animals that
was uppermost in her mind.

Join the Jack London Club and help stop
the cruelty of trained animal acts.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Vegetarianism
What About It ?

HAT constantly more and more people

are becoming vegetarians than a few
years ago we doubt not is true. Travelers
in England are struck by the many restau-
rants, hotels and boarding home-s where no-
meat is served. Even in New York we have
noticed the growing number of such places.
Why many continue to eat meat is in part
due to the ignorance of the majority of
cooks of how to prepare a vegetable diet
appetizing and satisfactory. Quite as much
skill is needed by a ﬁrst-‘class vegetable cook
as by the ordinary meat and vegetable chef.
In many cases dishes are prepared so appe-
tizing but containing no animal product
that one has to be assured of the fact be—
fore he can believe it. That multitudes eat
altogether too much meat few will deny.

That good health, a Vigorous and active

constitution can be maintained without meat
is evident from the people we often meet——
perfect pictures of health—who astonish us
by saying they have eaten no meat for many
years. Indeed no small part of the world’s
inhabitants are practically vegetarians,
some because they are too poor in certain
countries to buy it except occasionally, and
millions because of religious scruples. We
have seen laborers in more than one for—
eign land, men doing hard physical work
for ten and twelve hours a day and subsist—
ing on vegetables, black bread and a little
wine.

It is amazing also to see, if not in this
country, at least in England, the imitation
of such furs as caracul, nutria lamb and
other species made into wraps and other
beautiful garments, of which one has really
to feel to discover that they are imitations.
Many are vegetarians for the sake of their
health, many because they would save from
the slaughter-pen and the sufferings of the
torturing trap every creature possible.

From Melbourne

This city of Melbourne, Victoria, Aus-
tralia, is worthy of mention for the excellent
work being done by its Animal Welfare
League. A hospital for sick animals of the
poor is maintained and a very active work
is carried on looking after the welfare of
animals, large and small. From January
1 of this year to June 30, 5,977 cases, includ-
ing 313 horses, 2,337 dogs, 1,269 cats and
71 birds, were given such care and treat-
ment as the conditions demanded. We send
them our best wishes for the future and
for an ever increasing membership of
friends and helpers.

Even in Persia

From Teheran, Persia, we learn through
a publication entitled Persian Youth that
123 English essays and 29 in the Persian
language were sent from twelve different
schools and seven cities of Persia for the
kindness to animals’ essay contest. Among
the judges were the president of the Teach-
ers’ College at Teheran; the Hon. Charles C.
Hart, American Minister to Persia; and
Mr. Douglas Busk, secretary of the British
Legation. The judges speak highly of the

essays. So spreads the spirit of the wider
humanity.

Oct. 1933
Wisdom or Folly

ACH will answer the question for him-

self. In this time of peace, with billions
being expended to cure the evils which in
no small measure grew out of the most
needless and destructive war of history, by
authority of Congress our Government is to
expend $238,000,000 to build four more
great cruisers, while seven others are in
process of construction. This not being
satisfactory to the Navy Department, Sec—
retary Swanson is asking the President to
use $114,000,000 more of borrowed money
for reconditioning our battleships and for
other naval purposes.

Japan, aware of this, meets us with the
largest navy and army budget in her his—
tory, and the navy men of Great Britain
are demanding appropriations which shall
make it possible for them to keep up with
us in the race. Was there really a war dur-
ing the years 1914-1918? Were we all in
it? Has the whole world been staggering
on the edge of bankruptcy ﬁnancially,
socially, industrially since then, and yet
have we learned nothing?

Youth on the Job at “Century
of Progress”

Frank A. Smothers, reporting in the
Chicago Daily News for June 15, tells a
great story. His report is:

Due to the enterprise of youth and the
guidance of Miss Jane Addams, the arts of
war are receiving a thorough lacing in the
Hall of Social Sciences at A Century of
Progress.

What war costs in lives, misery and good
American dollars is impressed forcibly on
the minds of visitors.

The exhibit, made possible by a gift of
$5,000 from a friend of Miss Addams, was
planned by the newly organized Chicago
Youth Peace Council. Under its leadership
young men and women, in and out of
college, act as hosts and hostesses at the
scene, ready to answer the questions of
inquiring visitors.

Offering His Living Body

A London paper publishes a letter writ-
ten by H. DeWinton Wigley which begins:
“I have been talking today to a man of 38
who has offered his living body to medical
science, so that, while he lives, in the labora-
tories his blood stream may be inoculated
with deadly diseases for experimental pur-
poses.” This man, the write-r says, is not
a fanatic, neither does he want to pose as
a hero. He went years ago to China as a
missionary. His health failed him. He has
been a terrible sufferer. He would be glad
if any experiments upon his living body
might make possible the healing of any of
his fellows. Sanely, quietly he talks of his
offer and is like a soldier to whom comes
the call to face a situation which can only
have a fatal ending. He makes the offer,
he says, in the service of God and his fel-
lows. Special legislation, it is said, would
have to be enacted, should physicians con-
sent to experiment upon him.

In making your will, please remember
the American Humane Education Society
Of Boston, the ﬁrst of its kind in the world.

 




 

 

 

Page 16

Boabdil

K A D R A M A Y S I

Fourteen lions keep the court .

Where his dark-faced princes made their
sport.

Its slender columns hold in place

Stone that is carved like Spanish lace.

Its yellow fruited orange trees

Are lulled at dusk by the mountain breeze;

In garden walk and patio,

Geranium, rose, and jasmine grow;

And the selfsame star's glitter and wheel

Which ﬂamed on the courts of Boabdil.

But, the heart in the breast of Boabdil

Was hard as his Arab riders’ steel.

Well might the boldest chieftain pale
Should ever his slightest service fail;

And Allah 'make swift the headsman’s blade
If slave offend or favorite fade!

Such was the son of his father’s queen:
Ha-wklike, haughty, of kingly mien.

Such was the last Moor—Boabdil—

When he faced the Dons of proud Castile.

Yet—eye of an eagle, heart of steel——

He loved two things, did Boa-bdil.

And the noblest things, since time began,

That were made by God and made by man.

For his eyes were wet and he bowed his head

When he knew that his Arab steed was
dead;

And, barred in their courts of lace and
stone,

His women hushed as they heard him moan,

And his desert warriors saw him weep

While the Spaniards forced Alhambra keep!

A Retirement Fund

So far gifts now amounting to $6,026
have been received for the American Hu-
mane Education Society’s trust fund for
the beneﬁt of ﬁeld missionaries and others
who have worn out their lives in the service
of promoting humane education.

Your contribution to this fund will be-
most welcome. Please make checks payable
to Treasurer, American Humane Education
Society, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, and
specify that the amount contributed is for
the Humane Education Trust Fund.

The Massachusetts S. P. C. A. also is
raising a special fund to provide, when
necessary, for employees who have been re-
tired or for any reason are incapacitated
for work. Contributions to this fund should
be sent to the Treasurer and marked plainly
for Massachusetts S. P. C. A. Retirement
Fund.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Annual Poster Contest

HE new medal, to be awarded to suc-

cessful contestants in the annual prize
poster contest of the Massachusetts S. P.
C. A. this year, represents a female ﬁgure
with one hand on a fawn and the other
balancing the scales of Justice, with the
words—“Justice, Compassion,” and the in—
itials of the Society. It is rounded in irregu-
lar scallops like ancient coins. The ﬁnish is
in bronze and red for ﬁrst prize-s and in sil-
ver and red for second prizes, both of which
will be liberally awarded in every school
entering the contest. Besides the medals,
honorable mentions, including a year’s sub-
scription to Our Dumb Animals, will be giv-
en. In 1932 there were 1,361 medals and 927
honorable mentions awarded.

Brieﬂy, the conditions of the contest fol-
low, though those intending to compete
should write to the Society for the special
circular giving full particulars.

1. The contest is open to schools of

grammar or high grade in Massachusetts
only, closes positively March 27, 1933, re—
sults to be announced during Be Kind to
Animals Week, April 17-22. During that
week the best of the posters will be on ex-
hibition in the Boston Public Library, C0p-
ley Square. .
i 2. No more than ﬁve posters may be
submitted from any one room, teachers to
select from all that are made under their
direction.

3. Kindness to animals should be the
theme, preferably with a brief motto. The
more original the design, the better.

4. Pencil or crayon, pen and ink, cut-
out paper (original, not magazine covers,
etc.), silhouette, water-colors or charcoal
may be used. Color adds greatly to the ef-
fectiveness.

5. DRAWINGS, ON CARDBOARD OR
HEAVY PAPER, MAY BE NOT LESS
THAN 12 X 18 INCHES, NOR MORE
THAN 18 X 24 INCHES, and should be
SHIPPED FLAT (never rolled), all
charges prepaid, to reach the MASSACHU-
SETTS S. P. C. A., not later than March
27, 1933, preferably earlier.

6. In the upper right-hand corner, on
the back of each poster, must be written the
contestant’s name, WITH FULL HOME
ADDRESS, also name and address of the
school, number of the grade, and name of
the teacher.

7. All posters receiving a medal or hon-
orable mention become the property of the
Society.

8. Address all posters plainly, Secretary,
Massachusetts S. P. C. A., 180 Longwood
Avenue, Boston.

I k . TO OUR FRIENDS \
n ma ing your will, kindly bear in mind that the cor ' '

. u . porate title of our Soclet

is t{The Massachusetts Socxety for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals”; that 13;

Its Ae sealand incorporated (March, 1868) Society for the Prevention of Cruelty

o nima s in the country, and that it has no connection with any other similar

Society.

Any bequest es
Hospital should, nevertheless,
vention of Cruelty to Animals
not Incorporated but is the pro

peclally intended for the beneﬁt of the Angell Memorial Animal

be‘ made to The Massachusetts Society for the Pre-
for the use of the Hospital,” as the Hospital is

perty of that Society and is conducted by it.

FORM OF BEQUEST

I give to The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelt

(or to The Am '
dollars (or, if :i'llltjn Humane Educa

 

<__,

y to Animals

.tion Society) the sum of ................
r property, describe the property).

 

Jan. 1933

A Contrast

JOSEPH R. SCHADEL

ES, the duck hunting season is open

again. Northern California will be
once more invaded by that marauding army
of experienced and, mostly, inexperienced
hunters and sportsmen (‘2) who will violate
the trust of wild life which had a chance to
become accustomed to tranquility during the
early part of the year when the season was
closed. Literally, thousands and tens of
thousands of unsuspecting wild ducks will
be the object of that unfortunately inherent
human lust to take some life that is unable
to defend or protect itself.

And now for a contrast: Out on Angel
Island, not far from the daily din and rattle
of the great and picturesque city of San
Francisco, live hundreds of ﬂuffy quail
which forage and play about the trees and
shrubs surrounding the government build—
ings located there. Nearly every day the
quail’s musical note may be heard and a
moment later, like a little army, they march
past the ofﬁce buildings in tens and hun-
dreds; through the trees, under the bushes,
up and down the paths, scurrying this way
and that way, but all headed in the same
direction. These» birds band together for a
purpose; occasionally a predatory hawk
makes his ominous appearance and the little
feathered creatures, always alert, with a
great rush and rustle and cry of alarm, seek
the nearest shelter. But they are happy.
They do' not know the fears and dangers of
the shot-gun or riﬂe; they are unmolested.
And how much more beautiful is natural
life in such a state than when they are made
the victims of the “sport” of hunting.

A Massachusetts Law

Section 131, Chapter 140, of the
General Laws

“Whoever sells or furnishes to a minor
under the age of ﬁfteen any ﬁrearms, air-
gun or other dangerous weapon or ammuni—
tion therefor shall be punished by a ﬁne of
not less than ten and not more than ﬁfty
dollars, but instructors and teachers may
furnish military weapons to pupils for in-
struction and drill.”

This law was enacted in 1884.

amp {{m b A n i m a 1 g

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston ofﬁce; 180 Longwood Avenue.

Address all communications to Boston.

TERMS
Postage free to any part of

 

One dollar per year.
the world.

Humane Societies and Agents are invited to cor-
respond with us for terms on large orders.

All dollar subscriptions sent direct to the ofﬁce en-
title the sender to membership in either of our two
Societies.

RATES OF MEMBERSHIP IN
THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
OR THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.

Active Life $100 00 Active Annual $10 00

Associate Life 50 00 Associate Annual 5 00

Sustaining 20 00 Annual 1 00
Children’s $0.75

Checks and other payments may be sent to ALBERT
g. POLLARD, Treasurer, 180 Longwood Avenue,
oston.

Manuscripts should be addressed to the

Editor,
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

Apr. 1933

Williams
. 1 -

L"

//“///7///’.

. ////

 

Founded by Geo. T. Angell. Incorporated March, 1868

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds

JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman, Chase Harris Forbes
Corporation

CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President, United Shoe
Machinery Corporation

PIELIP STOCKTON, President, First National Bank of
oston ~

Prosecuting Ofﬁcers in Boston
Telephone (Complaints, Ambulances) Regent 6100

L. WILLARD WALKER, Chief Ofﬁcer
HARRY L. ALLEN DAVID A. BOLTON
HARVEY R. FULLER HOWARD WILLAND
WALTER B. POPE
County Prosecuting Ofﬁcers

HERMAN N. DEAN, Boston,

Middlesex, Norfolk and Plymouth
FRED T. VICKERS, Boston Eastern Essex
WILLIAM W. HASWELL, Methuen, Western Essex
THEODORE W. PEARSON, Springﬁeld,

Hampden, Hampshire and Franklin

ROBERT L. DYSON, Worcester, Worcester
WINFIELD E. DUNHAM, New Bedford, Bristol
HAROLD G. ANDREWS, Hyannis,

Barnstable, Dukes and Nantucket
EDWIN D. MOODY, Pittsﬁeld, Berkshire

Rest Farm for Horses and Small Animal Shelter,
Methuen
W. W. HASWELL, Superintendent

Women’s Auxiliary of the Mass. S. P. C. A., 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston—MRS. EDITH WASHBURN
CLARKE, Pres.; MRS. ARTHUR W. HURLBURT, First
Vice-Pres; MRS. WM. J. MCDONALD, Second Vice-
Pres; MRS. A. J. FURBUSH, Treas.; MIss HELEN W.
POTTER, Rec. Sec.; MRS. JOHN A. DYKEMAN, Cor.
Sec.; MRS. A. P. FISHER, Chair. Work Committee.

The Massachusetts Society for the Pre-
vention of Cruelty to Animals has been
remembered in the will of Susan F. Wor-
cester of Boston.

March 14, 1933.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

Angell Memorial Animal Hospital
and
Dispensary for Animals

184 Longwood Avenue Telephone, Regent 6100

Veterinarians
H. F. DAILEY, v.M.D., Chief
R. H. SCHNEIDER, v.M.D., Asst. Chief
E. F. SCHROEDER, D.V.M.
W. M. EVANS, D.V.S.
G. B. SCHNELLE, v.M.D.
T. O. MUNSON, v.M.D.

HARRY L. ALLEN, Superintendent
Springﬁeld Branch

53-57 Bliss Street, Springﬁeld, Mass.

THEODORE W. PEARSON, General Manager
A. R. EVANS, v.M.D., Veterinarian

 

 

 

HOSPITAL REPORT FOR FEBRUARY
Including Springﬁeld Branch

Hospital Dispensary
Cases entered 626 Cases 2,166
Dogs 449 Dogs 1,746
Cats 171 Cats 388
Birds 3 Birds 26
Horses 2 Monkeys 2
Ocelot 1 Horse 1

Sheep 1
Rabbit 1
Operations 881 Squirrel 1

Hospital cases since opening, Mar.

1, 1915 ....................... 109,240
Dispensary Cases ................ 242,725
Total ......................... 351,965

MONTHLY REPORT OF OFFICERS
Miles traveled by humane oﬂ‘icers. 12,468

Cases investigated ............ . . 534
Animals examined .............. 3,825
Number of prosecutions .......... 8
Number of convictions .......... 8
Horses taken from work ......... 13
Horses humanely put to sleep . . . . 32
Small animals humanely put to
sleep ................. . ....... 578
Stock-yards and Abattoirs
Animals inspected .............. 30,349
Cattle, swine and sheep humanely
put to sleep .................. 23

The Massachusetts Society for the Pre—
vention of Cruelty to Animals passed its
sixty-ﬁfth birthday in March. It has a
record of past achievement of which it is
justly proud.

 

A SPECIMEN OF SOME OF THE SLAUGHTER-HOUSES WE HAVE IN THE
CIVILIZED STATE OF MASSACHUSETTS. LICENSED BY TOWNS AND PER-
MITTED BY THE HEALTH AUTHORITIES OF THE COMMONWEALTH.

Page 57

Women’s Auxiliary of M. S.
P. C. A.

An enthusiastic and well-attended meet-
ing of the Women’s Auxiliary of the Mass-
achusetts S. P. C. A. was held Tuesday,
February 21, at the home of Mrs. William
J. McDonald, 276 Marlboro Street, Boston,
when an unusual program was offered by
Mrs. Mary Nevery, soprano, with Miss Mar-
garet Martin, accompanist. The latter gave
several selections from Chopin. Marion
Hurturitz, ten years old, entertained with
readings and song. Tea was served with
Mrs. David Goodin, sixth district director
of Women’s Clubs, pouring. Mrs. Goodin
also gave a brief address. The president of
the Auxiliary, Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke,
presided.

The Winchester Branch of the Auxiliary
met February 9 at the home of Mrs. Rich-
ard S. Taylor, 137 Mt. Vernon Street, when
Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke brought greet-
ings from the parent Auxiliary and told
of the expanding work in this line and also
of the activities of the American Humane
Education Society. Mrs. Van Sickle, treas-
urer of the Women’s S. P. C. A. Auxiliary,
Larchmont, N. Y., was present as a guest.
During the social hour tea was in charge
of Mrs. Samuel C. Wiswall and Mrs. George
Lochman. Plans are being made by the
Winchester organization for the celebra-
tion of Be Kind to Animals Week.

The Women’s Auxiliary of the Spring-
ﬁeld Branch met March 8 at the Society’s
building, 53-57 Bliss Street, with Mrs.
Donald C. Kibbe presiding. A review of
the work of the American Fondouk at Fez,
Morocco, was presented by Mrs. George S.
Sabin, recording secretary of the new Aux-
iliary, followed by addresses by Dr. A. R.
Evans, veterinarian at the Hospital, and
Theodore W. Pearson, manager of the
Springﬁeld Branch of the M. S. P. C. A.

MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A. IN THE
COURTS

Summary of Prosecutions for February

For failure to provide proper shelter for
two calves (one with froze-n ears) a defend-
ant was ﬁned $5. The court ordered him
to. ﬁx his stable to the humane ofﬁcer’s
satisfaction.

For cruelly abandoning a dog, offender
pleaded nolo. He was sentenced to one
month in the House of Correction, suspended
one year. .

The owner of a horse was charged With
permitting the ill-conditioned anlmal to be
subjected to unnecessary cruelty and suf-
fering. He was ﬁned $25 and given a three
months’ suspended sentence to the House of
Correction and the horse was ordered killed.

Failing to provide proper food for h1s

' cattle, defendant was found guilty and case

was ﬁled, the court ordering him to sell off
all his livestock.

Permitting a horse to be worked when
unﬁt for labor by reason of a dropped sole,
two offenders, owner and driver, were found
guilty and case was ﬁled on condition horse
be killed. .

Inﬂicting unnecessary sufferlng a n d
cruelty upon two debilitated horses affllcted
with raw sores, a defendant was ﬁned $25
and given three months in House of Correc-
tion. The jail sentence was suspended and
a year’s time given to pay ﬁne.

For failing to provide proper shelter for
six pigs, defendant pleaded gullty and pald
ﬁne of $10.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

Oct. 1933
Birds

CECIL NOEL

Did you hear the songs of the birds this
morn,

As the earth was ﬂooded with golden dawn?

I listened, and oh, in my heart, there still

Echoes the music from tree top and hill.

Did you see the ﬁrst robin come out today?
I heard him chant his sweet roundelay.

His mate is waiting on yonder tree,

And I think her heart is bursting with glee.

Ah, Life without birds were a sorry sight,

Like gloom of night ere the dawn’s bright
light. ‘

So hark to the birds in the budding trees

As they sing and chirp in the fanning
breeze.

Bird Sanctuary in Seattle

HAZELANA GOODWIN

A wild fowl sanctuary was established
by the Seattle Park Board in Lake Wash-
ington, within the city limits, in Septem-
ber, 1930. Since then the number of birds
has grown steadily until at the height of
migration period (about December 1) over
10,000 ducks were estimated in one daily
feed.

Thousands of water fowl are fed daily.
During 1932 more than ﬁfty tons of wheat
were fed to the birds.

During the fall migration the total num-
ber of ducks is increased by more than ten
times the number that were more or less
localized. Last year about 200 young ducks
,bred on a small island adjacent to the sanc-
tuary.

Some of the specials that have been ob-
served here are: mallard, teal, coot, scaup
(blue bill), pintail, canvas-back, shoveller,
goldeneye, Merganser, bufﬂe-head, ruddy
with occasional ring-necked, baldpate, Bar—
row’s golden-eye, and hooded Merganser.
About 85 per cent are mallards.

   

THE LEAVES

 

OF HER NEST BLEND SO PERFECTLY WITH THE

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

 

Page 151

The Bog-Sucker

NEVIN 0. WINTER

N the early spring, just after the frost

is out of the ground, there arrives in the

northern states from somewhere near
the Gulf of Mexico, where he has wintered,
one of our oddest—looking birds. His legs
are short, his head seems to be set right
on his shoulders and he is almost tailless;
but his long bill makes up for these short-
comings. His peculiar appearance and sin-
gular habits have given rise to some queer
names. Among these are bog-sucker, timber
doodle, night peck, hookum pake and Lab-
rador twister. He comes by the name of
bog—sucker naturally, and the fact that he
is a night prowler accounts for some of
the other titles. We know him as wood-
cock.

Because of his attraction for the hunter,
the woodcock faces extinction. In my own
community the birds are rare. I know of a
few places where they are found each year,
but I could not be bribed to reveal the loca~
tion to the man with a gun. So many so-
called “sportsmen” can not resist the temp—
tation to shoot at the erratic target. Not
long ago I sat at dinner with one of this
tribe, a man whom I know well and who
spends most of his time ﬁshing and hunt-
ing and playing golf. He had just returned
from a visit to a trout stream.

“What success did you have?” one of the
party asked.

“Oh, I did not get many trout, but I
shot fourteen woodcock. I know it was out
of season, but most of the birds are gone
before the season opens in October, so I
thought I might as well have a little sport.”
He spoke as if he thought it was smart.
As it was only August, some of the victims
were doubtless young birds unable to ﬂy
well. My respect for this man, who prided
himself on his “sportsmanship,” went down
to zero. With a few more such fellows
prowling around unguarded, there would
not be a woodcock left.

  

PLUMAGE OF THE WOODCOCK THAT IT IS HARD TO DISTINGUISH HER

It always gives me a thrill when a wood-
cock springs up ahead of me on whirring
wings and twists around erratically in its
haste to get away. It may alight soon and
then run through the cover. There is al-
ways a peculiar whistling of the wing fea-
thers. Its habitat may be along the edge
of a brook, in damp woods or, rarely, in
a cornﬁeld where the soil is soft enough for
probing. The bill is thrust down almost to
the big eyes, which are set so far back in
the head that one wonders if it is not just
as easy to look behind as forward.

You can always tell where a woodcock.

has been feeding, by the holes left by the
bill. The upper mandible is sensitive and
pliable, so that it can be lifted a triﬂe and
a hold secured upon a worm or grub en-
countered in the explorations. It is cer-
tainly a clever arrangement, for the wood-
cock seldom misses a victim. It is a glut-
tonous feeder, and is credited with eating
its own weight in worms, grubs and larvae
in a night. The economic value may be slight,

but the woodcock does lend color and charm

to a locality. Its evolutions during court-
ing are wonderful to behold. The male rises
up ﬁfty feet or more» and then spirals down
to the ground time and again.

It was a long time after becoming ac-
quainted with the bog-sucker before I saw
a nest. The scarcity of the birds and secre-
tiveness easily explains my failure. A
friend called one day and said that he had
found a whippoorwill’s nest. It was on the
ground, so he said, and that would cor-
respond to the woodcock’s habits. “What
was the bird like?” I asked. “Brownish,”
he answered. That also might apply to the
bog—sucker. When he said, “It has a long
bill,” I pricked up my ears, for the whlp-
poorwill’s bill is about as insigniﬁcant as a
bird’s bill could possibly be and still be of
service. So I accompanied him to the scene.

It was an ideal woodcock’s nest that he
showed me under the shade of a bush. It
was in .a natural depression and was lined
with leaves which blended so perfectly with
the plumage that I did not distinguish the
madam at ﬁrst. She remained immovable,
the only sign of life being an occasional
ﬂicker of the eyelids. I almost touched her
before she sprang up, ﬂew a short distance
and then tried to fool me by pretending
lameness. In the nest were four large buffy
eggs thickly spotted with brown. Four
seems to be the regular number, and I im-
agine quadruplets can make trouble enough
for the mother, even though they are able
to follow her about as soon as thoroughly
dried. As this nest was seen on the very
last day of June, it was probably a second
nesting, for they usually nest much earlier.

Baby woodcock are comical little fellows,
covered with yellowish down, and look as
though the bill was too long for them to
manage. At ﬁrst they can only totter, but
they can soon run about easily and are
able to ﬂy within a month. It is said that
the mother sometimes carries them about
by holding them close to her body with her
feet and legs, but I have never witnessed
this performance.

Remember the Mass. Society for the Pre-
vention of Cruelty to Animals in your will.

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

PEPPER
l

  

By
HUGH
KING
,' HARRIS

 

“UPON THE BASIS OF UNDERSTANDING
SHALL BE FOUNDED HUMANITY”
Pepper, an intelligent terrier, tells

his life from his ﬁrst recollection, on

through escapades, dangers, myster-
ies, and delights, in a way to hold
the attention of all ages.

For the dog, what “BLACK BEAUTY” has
been for the horse.

For sale wherever books are sold - $1.50

LOTHROP, LEE & SHEPARD CO.
275 Congress St. Boston

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

‘ CUTICUBA

Shaving Cream

Produces a rich, creamy lather that
remains moist throughout the shave.
At your dealers or sent postpaid on receipt

of 35c. Address: Cuticura Laboratories,
A Malden, Mass.

 

VVVV

 

 

 

 

H. C. HAM
J. L. HAM
A. L. HAM
PAPER

10 High Street, Boston

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Actually

KILLS
FLEAS

Instead of
Stupetying
Them

PULVEX-ING your dog or cat
kills all the ﬂeas, lice, mites, and
keeps new ones off for days.
Harmless even if swallowed. Non-
irritating. Odorless. Used by over
a million dog owners. Guaran-
teed to satisfy you or your money
back. Sold by drug stores, pet
shops, 50 cents, or direct—

William Cooper & Nephews, Inc,
Deptlﬂﬂﬂ, 1925 Clifton Av.,(:hicago

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Eumane literature for christmas @ittg

For sale by the American Humane Education Society and the Massachusetts S. P. C. A.,

180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass., at these prices, postpaid.

Titles in bold-face type are of books or booklets

The Great Cruelty, summary of Dr. Rowley’s Hartford address on humane methods in the slaughter

of our food animals, ................

Humane Calendar for 1934 ........... each, 20 cts.
Two for 35 cts.; six for $1.00; $1.80 per dozen
Our Dumb Animals, 1932, bound volume $1.00

Our Dumb Animals, January to Decem-
ber, 1929, and 1931, bound in cloth,
special, each ...................... . ..

Colored Posters, 17 x 28 inches, .Wlth
attractive pictures and verses, s1x 1n
the set .............................. $1.00

Be Kind to Animals Blotters, 6%x3%.. $0.50 per 100

.75

About the Horse

Black Beauty (English), cloth, 45 cents; paper, 20 cts.
The Shame of It—Mutilating the horse

by setting up his tail. Dr. Rowley’s

protest against this cruelty for fash-

ion’s sake. Four illus., 4 pp. .... ..... Free
What Constitutes Cruelty, Franc1s H.

Rowley ............................. $0.30 per 100
Humane Horse Book, 32 pp., 5 cts., or.. 5.00 “ “

The Horse—Treatment of Sores, Dis-

eases, etc. ........................... .60 : ::
Humane Education Leaﬂet, No. 5 ...... .50 “
The Horse’s Prayer .................... .30 ‘: “
The Bell of Atri, poem by Longfellow .. .50 ‘

About the Dog

Beautiful Joe, new, illus., $1.50 ........ small, 50 cts.
Distemper in Dogs, Dr. Schneider ...... Free
Rabies vs. Running Fits, Dr. Schneider Free

Eulogy on the Dog, by Vest, post-card .. $1.00 per 1 O
The Dog—Its Care in Health and Disease .60 “ “

Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 3 and 4 .50 “ “
What the Chained Dog Says ............ .50 “ “
The Story of Barry .................... .30 “ “

About the Bird
The Birds of God, 318 pp., illus, ....... cloth, $0.45
The Trial of the Birds, play .......... $2.00 per 100
Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 1 and 2 .50 “ “
How the Birds Help the Farmer ...... .50 “ “
The Air-gun and the Birds ............ .50 “ “

About the Cat

The Cat—Its Care in Health and Disease $0.60 per 100
Surplus Cats .......................... .50 “ “
The Cat in Literature ................. .50 “ “
Do Not Leave Your Cat to Starve ...... .50 “ “
“The Beggar Cat,” post-card, 6 cts. doz. .50 “ “

About Other Animals
Prince Rudolf’s Quest, Kenniston, 150

pp., special ........................ boards, 50 cts.
The Strike at Shane’s, cloth, 30 cts. ..paper, 7cts.
For Pity’s Sake ....................... paper, 5 cts.

Michael Brother of Jerry, Jack London, cloth, 75 cts.
The Animal’s Magna Charta in Ethnic

History and in Ethical Truth, Edw.

P. Buffet .......................... paper, 15 cts.
First Aid to Animals, Dr. Schneider, 8 pp.$1.00 per 100
What is the Jack London Club? ........ .30 “ “
Foreword from “Michael Brother of

Jerry” ............. . ................. .30 “ “
Gripped in the Teeth of Steel, 2 pp. . . .. 1.00 “ “
How to Kill Animals Humanely, 4 pp. 1.00 “ “
Leaﬂet, N0. 6, Animals ................ .50 “ “
Leaﬂet, N0. 7, Farm Animals .......... .50 “ “

......................................... Free
Hints on the Care of Cows ............ $0.50 per 100
Rules for the Care of Poultry .......... .60 “ “
Ways of Kindness .................... .50 “ “

Humane Education

The Humane Bulletin, for use in schools,

96 . ................ 12 cents each; ten for $1.00
Care and Kindness for Our Animal

Friends, 29 pp., paper covers, many

illus. ................ 15 cents each; seven for $1.00
Kindness Picture Book, 32 pp. 15 cts. ; seven for $1.00
The Teacher’s Helper in Humane Edu-

cation, 32 pp. ......................
Humane Education—for Parents and

Teachers, 20 pp. .................... each, 10 cts.
“Sanctuary! Sanctuary!” Selections

from book by Dallas Lore Sharp, 32 pp. each, 5cts.
Picture Lesson Cards, each 10 cts., set

each, 10 cts.

of elght ............................ 35 cts.
“Be Kind to Animals” pennants ...... each, 25 cts.
“Be Kind to Animals” placards ........ each, 3cts.
The Humane Idea, Dr. Francis H.

Rowley .............. cloth, 35 cts.; paper, 15 cts.
Friends and Helpers (selections for

school use), Sarah J. Eddy .......... cloth, 96 cts.
Animals as Seen by the Poets, Guy

Richardson, 32 pp. ....cloth, 35 cts.; paper, 10 cts.
Address to Boston Public Schools ...... $2.00 per 100
Lessons on Kindness to Animals ........ 3.00 “ “

The B-—K—T-—A—Club, play, 3 cts. each ; ten for 25c.
Fred Changes His Mind, play, 5 cts. each ; six for 25c.
“And a Little Child Shall Lead Them,”

play .................. 3 cts. each; ten for 25 cts.
Friends of Fur and Feather, play,

3 cts. each; ten for 25 cts.

Humane Day in Schools, with class-room

project, 8 pp. ....................... $2.00 per 100
Exercises for Humane Day, 1933 ...... 2.00 “ “
Humane Education the Vital Need, Dr.

Rowley, short radio address, 3 cts. each; 1.50
Our Little Brothers and Sisters, sermon

(C U

for boys and girls, by Dr. Jefferson .. .50 “ “
Humane Education, What to Teach and

How to Teach It ................... .50 “ “
Outlines of Study in Humane Education 1.50 “ “
Early Lessons in Kindness or Cruelty .. .50 “ “
A Talk with the Teacher .............. .50 “ “
Our Love for Animals, a short radio ad-

dress .................. 5 cts. each; 2.50 “ “
A Festival of Tender Mercies ........ .50 “ “
The Coming Education ............... .30 “ “
A Great Prophecy, Dr. Rowley ........ Free
American College Presidents and the

American Humane Education Society . Free

Band of Mercy

“Be Kind to Animals” Buttons, three
styles~Band of Mercy, Humane So-
ciety, or S. P. C. A. ................

Buttons—white star on blue ground with
gilt letters and border, one cent each 1.00

$1.00 per 100

(t ‘6

Badges, gold ﬁnish, large, 10 cts. ...... small, 5cts.
“Band of Mercy” Pennant ............ 35 cts.
Songs of Happy Life, with music, S.

J. Eddy ............................ 50 cts.
Songs of Happy Life (56 pages, words

only) ............................... $3.00 per 100
Band of Mercy Membership Card ...... .50 “ “
How to Form Bands of Mercy ........ .50 “ “

Does it Pay, story of one Band of Mercy .30 “ “

Please enclose remittance with orders for less than $1

AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY, 180 Longwood Ave., Boston, Mass.

 

 

THIS SPACE
CONTRIBUTED

 

 

 

 

 

 

Since 1 832

J. s. WATERMAN & SONS, INC.

@thcrtakers

BOSTON—BROOKLINE—CAMBRIDGE
City and Out-of-Town Service

 

 

FREE Write for
BOOKLET N0. N—58—M
on the practical re-
moval of Worms in
Dogs of all breeds

   
     
     

CAPSULES

ﬁectz'vely remove

Large Rounwordms and Hookworms

The safe, easy-to-give worm treatment.
Dependable. For free booklet WRITE T0

PARKE, DAVIS 8:. CO.

Desk N -58-M Animal Industry Dept., Detroit, M £ch.
— Drug Stores Sell Parke-Davis Products. —

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 176

 

IN THE EDITOR’S LIBRARY

“PEPPER,” Hugh King Harris.

A sprightly, lovable, game little fox-ter-
rier tells his own life story in language
which at once and continuously impresses
the reader as characteristic of his kind.
It is a book which closely approaches the
“Black Beauty” type, than which there can
be no stronger recommendation.

' It is not merely another dog story, but
an outstanding revelation in dog psychology,
written with a keen understanding of both
the canine and the human world. Pepper,
the intelligent terrier, tells his life from
his ﬁrst recollection, on through adventures,
mysteries, dangers, and delights in a way
that holds the attention. His analysis of
the minds and dispositions of “persons,”
as he sees them, is superb, and his descrip-

 

tion of the characteristics of his dog friends *

of varying breeds no less attractive to the
reader. As is true in “Black Beauty,”'the
humanitarian appeal is very strong. Dog
lovers will instantly respond to it, and those
who have been indifferent will have their
interest quickened. We believe this book
will prove to be a most promising stimulus
to the progress of humane education. A
score of illustrative drawings and decora-
tive cover are highly attractive.

253 pp. $1.50, Lothrop, Lee and Shepar
Co., Boston, Mass. .

The sad destruction of birds, lured dur-
ing the dark and foggy nights of the mi-
gratory season, by the brilliant war me-
morial beacon on Mount Greylock was hu-
manely halted by the reservation commis-
sioner who ordered the great light turned
off. Hundreds of birds had perished, but
the tragedy will not be repeated. The light—
houses along our shores take a heavy an-
nual toll of the birds. Let the inland bea—
cons be extinguished when the migrants are
on the wing.

SEMI-ANNUAL STATEMENT

Statement of the ownership, management, circula-
tion, etc., of Our Dumb Animals, published monthly
2: Ijgi‘gvood, Mass., required by the Act of August

Publishers—The Massachusetts Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, Norwood, Mass.

Editor—Guy Richardson, Back Bay Station,
Boston, Mass.

Managing Editor—Francis H. Rowley, President,
Back Bay Station, Boston, Mass.

Business Managers—Ofﬁcers of the Mass.
S. P. C. A.
Owners: (If a corporation, give names and ad-

dresses of stockholders holding 1 per cent or more
of total amount of stock.)

The .Mass. Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals (Charitable Corporation). funds
and property controlled by Board of Directors,
Francxs H. Rowley, President; Guy Richardson,
Secretary; Albert A. Pollard, Treasurer.

Guy Richardson, Editor

Sworn to and subscribed before me, this third
day of October, 1933.

L. Willard Walker, Notary Public

[Seal] (My commission expires Jan. 21, 1938)

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Nov..1933

Humane literature and Band of Mercy Supplies

For sale by the American Humane Education Society and the Massachusetts 5. P. C. A.,

180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass, at these prices, postpaid.

Titles in bold-face type are of books or booklets

Humane Calendar for 1934 .............. each, 20 cts
Two for 35 cts.; six for $1.00; $1.80 per dozen

Our Dumb Animals, 1932, bound volume $1.00

Our Dumb Animals, January to Decem-

ber, 1929, and 1931, bound in cloth,
special, each ........................ .75
Colored Posters, 17 x 28 inches, .with

attractive pictures and verses, s1x in
the set ................ ' .............. $1.00
Be Kind to Animals Blotters, 6%;x3%.. $0.50 per 100

About the Horse
Black Beauty (English), cloth, 45 cents; paper, 20 cts.
The Shame of it—Mutilating the horse
by setting up his tail. Dr. Rowley’s
protest against this cruelty for fash-
ion’s sake. Four illus., 4 pp. ........
What Constitutes Cruelty, Francis H.
Rowley .............................. $0.30 per 100

Free

Humane Horse Book, 32 pp., 5 cts., or.. 5.00 “ “
The Horse—Treatment of Sores, Dis-
eases, etc ........................... .60 “ “
Humane Education Leaﬂet, No. 5 ...... .50 "‘ “
The Horse’s Prayer ........... ‘ ........ .30 “ “
The Bell of Atri, poem by Longfellow .. .50 “ “
About the Dog
Beautiful Joe, new, illus., $1.50 ........ small, 50 cts.
Distemper in Dogs, Dr. Schneider ...... Free
Rabies vs. Running Fits, Dr. Schneider Free
Eulogy on the Dog, by Vest, post-card .. $1.00 per 100
The Dog—Its Care in Health and Disease .60 “ “
Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 3 and 4 .50 “ “
What the Chained Dog Says ........... .50 “ “
The Story of Barry ................... .30 “ “
About the Bird
The Birds of God, 318 pp., illus, ....... cloth, $0.45

The Trial of the Birds, play ........... $2.00 per 100
Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 1 and 2 .50 “ “
How the Birds Help the Farmer .50 “ “
The Air-gun and the Birds ............ .50 “ “

About the Cat
The Cat—Its Care in Health and Disease $0.60 per 100
Surplus Cats .......................... .50 “ “
The Cat in Literature ................. .50 “ “
Do Not Leave Your Cat to Starve ...... .50 “ “
“The Beggar Cat,” post-card, 6 cts. doz. .50 “ “

About Other Animals

Prince Rudolf’s Quest, Kenniston, 150

pp., special ......................... boards, 50 cts.
The Strike at Shane’s, cloth, 30 cts. ..paper, 7cts.
For Pity’s Sake ....................... paper, 5 cts.
Michael Brother of Jerry, Jack London, cloth, 75 cts.
Jack London Club Poster, 22 x 32 inches,

one for‘ 15 cts., two for 25 cts., five or

more each, 10 cts.
First Aid to Animals, Dr. Schneider, 8 pp.$1.00 per 100
What is the Jack London Club? .30 “ “

Foreword from “Michael Brother of

Jerry” .............................. .30 “ “
Gripped in the Teeth of Steel, 2 pp. 1.00 “ “
How to Kill Animals Humanely, 4 pp. 1.00 “ “

Leaﬂet, No. 6, Animals ................ .50 “ “.
Leaﬂet, No. 7, Farm Animals ..........
Ways of Kindness .....................

Humane Education

The Humane Bulletin, for use in schools,

96 pp. .................. 12 cents each; ten for $1.00
Care and Kindness for Our Animal

Friends, 29 pp., paper covers, many

illus. ................. 15 cents each ; seven for $1.00
Kindness Picture Book, 32 pp. 15 cts. ; seven for $1.00
The Teacher’s Helper in Humane Edu-

cation, 32 pp.
Humane Education—for Parents and

each, 10 cts.

Teachers, 20 pp. .................... each, 10 cts.
Picture Lesson Cards, each, 10 cts., set

of eight ............................ 35 cts.
“Be Kind to Animals” pennants ...... each, 25 cts.

“Be Kind to Animals” placards each, 3 cts.
The Humane Idea, Dr. Francis H.

Rowley ................ cloth, 35 cts. ; paper, 15 cts.
Friends and Helpers (selections for

school use), Sarah J. Eddy
Animals as Seen by the Poets, Guy

Richardson, 32 pp. ..... cloth, 35 cts.; paper, 10 cts.
Address to Boston Public Schools ...... $2.00 per 100
Lessons on Kindness to Animals ....... 3.00 “ “
The B—K—T—A—Club, play . .3 cts. each; ten for 25c.
Fred Changes His Mind, play, 5 cts. each; six for 25c.
“And a Little Child Shall Lead Them,’”

play ..................... 3 cts. each ; six for 15 cts.
Friends of Fur and Feather, play,

3 cts. each; ten for 25 cts.

Humane Day in Schools, with class-room

project, 8 pp.
Exercises for Humane Day, 1933
Humane Education the Vital Need, Dr.

Rowley, short radio address, 3 cts. each; 1.50
Our Little Brothers and Sisters, sermon

cloth, 96 cts.

for boys and girls, by Dr. Jefferson .. .50 “ “
Humane Education, What to Teach and
How to Teach It 50 “ “

Outlines of Study in Humane Education 1.50
Early Lessons in Kindness or Cruelty .. .50 “ “
A Talk with the Teacher .............. .50 “ “
Our Love for Animals, a short radio

address ................... 5 cts. each; 2.50 “ “
A Festival of Tender Mercies .5
The Coming Education

A Great Prophecy, Dr. Rowley ........ Free
American College Presidents and the
American Humane Education Society.. Free

Band of Mercy

“Be Kind to Animals” Buttons, three

styles—Band of Mercy, Humane So-

ciety, or S. P. C. A. ................. $1.00 per 100
Buttons—white star on blue ground with

gilt letters and border, one cent each 1.00 “ “
Badges, gold ﬁnish, large, 10 cts. ....... small, 5 cts.

“Band of Mercy” Pennant ............ 5cts.
Songs of Happy Life, with music, S.

J. Eddy ............................. 5O cts.
Songs of Happy Life (56 pages, words

only) ............................... $3.00 per 100
Band of Mercy Membership Card ...... .50 “ “
How to Form Bands of Mercy ......... .50 “ “

Does it Pay, story 'of one Band of Mercy .30 “ “

Please enclose remittance with orders for less than ”$1

AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY, 180 Longwood Ave., Boston, Mass.

 

True humane education means the teach-
ing of habitual kindness to all—to human
beings and to animals—the spirit of love
and compassion which will overcome selﬁsh-
ness and hatred, and eventually put an end
to war. MARY F. LOVELL

 

 

TO OUR FRIENDS

In making your will, kindly bear in mind that the corporate title of our Society is “The
Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals”; that it is the second
incorporated (March, 1868) Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals in the country,
and that it has no connection with any other similar Society.

Any bequest especially intended for the beneﬁt of the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital
should, nevertheless, be made to The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals “for the use of the Hospital,” as the HOSpital is not incorporated but is the
property of that Society and is conducted by it.

FORM or BEQUEST

I give to.The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (or
to The American Humane Education Society), the sum of ...... . . ....................
dollars (or, if other property), describe the property).

 

 

Our Dumb Animals

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston Ofﬁce; 180 Longwood Av-

nue.
Address all communications torBoston.

TERMS

One dollar per year. Postage free to any part of
the world.

Humane Societies and Agents are invited to cor-
respond with us for terms on large orders.

All dollar subscriptions sent direct to the ofﬁce en-
title the sender to membership in either of our two
Societies.

RATES OF MEMBERSHIP IN
THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
OR THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.

Active Life $100 00 Active Annual $10 00

Associate Life 50 00 Associate Annual 5 00

Sustaining 20 00 Annual 1 00
Children’s $0.75

Checks and other payments may be sent to ALBERT
A. POLLARD, Treasurer, 180 Longwood Avenue
Boston. ’

Manuscripts should be addressed to the Editor
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston. '

 




 

 

 

 

JUNE 1933

  

 

 

 

 

 

Photo from Kilroy Harris
THE PRONGHORN IS BEING SAVED FROM EXTINCTION (See page 84)

      

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THE MASSACHUSETTS SOCIETY FOR THE

PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS
AND THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY

 

 




 

 

 

 

PEACE ON EARTH,

KINDNESB, Jusruc
AND MERCY 'ro
EVERY LIVING

CREATURE.

 

Founded by Geo. T. Angell. Incorporated, 1889

For rates of membership in both of our Societies
see back cover. Checks should be made payable to
Treasurer.

Ofﬁcers of the American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds
JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman, Chase Harris Forbes
Corporation
CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President, United Shoe
Machlnery Corporation

PHILIP STOCKTON, President, First National Bank of
Boston

Foreign Corresponding Representatives

George B. Duff .................. Australia
Luis Pareja Cornejo ............ Ecuador
Charles A. Williams ............ France
Leonard T. Hawksley ............ Italy
Mrs. Mary P. E. Nitobe .......... Japan
Mrs. Marie C. E. Houghton ...... Madeira
Dr. A. T. Ishkanian ............. Mexico

Luther Parker ................... Philippine Islands

Joaquin Julia ............... Spaln
Rida Himadi................:::::LebanonandS '
Mrs. Alice W. Manning .......... Turkey yrIa
Humane Press Bureau
Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke, Secretary
180 Longwood Ave., Boston

Field Workers of the Society

Mrs. Alice L. Park, Palo Alto California
Mrs. Rachel C. Hogue, San Diego, California

.rs. Jennie R. Nichols, Tacoma, Washington
James D. Burton, Oakdale, Tennessee
Mrs. Katherine Weathersbee, Atlanta, Georgia
Rev. F. Rivers Barnwell, Fort Worth, Texas
MISS Blanche Finley, Richmond, Virginia
Rev. John W. Lemon, Ark, Virginia
MISS Luc1a F. Gilbert, Boston, Massachusetts
Mrs. Jennie R. Toomim, Chicago, Illinois
Seymour Carroll, Columbia, S. C.

Field Representative

Wm. F. H. Wentzell, M.S., Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

Field Lecturer in Massachusetts
Ella A. Maryott

The Work in Turkey

In Istanbul (Constan-
tinople) there is a P0-
lice School. The police
are instructed by the
S. P. C. A. in the care
and proper treatment
of animals. Upon one
of the visits of the P0-
lice School to Robert
College this picture was
taken, showing some of
the teachers of the
school. Mrs. Manning,
who has been so long
connected with Robert
College and who has
done so much for ani-
mals and humane edu-
cation in Turkey, may
be seen at the right of
the gentleman in the
center of the group.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Promoting Interest in Hu-
mane Work in Schools

Heaven is not reached at a single bound,
But we build the ladder by which we rise
From the lowly earth to the vaulted skies,

And we mount to the summit, round by

round.

I count this thing to be grandly true
That a noble deed is a step toward God,
Lifting the soul from the common clod
To a purer air and a broader view.

TYPE these two stanzas of “Gradati”
by Josiah Gilbert Holland at the top of a

piece of construction paper. Below, I draw
the picture of a ladder.
bottom rung the members of the Band of
Mercy write each good deed they do. I ﬁnd
they take a great deal of interest in trying
to ﬁll their ladders up ﬁrst. When a ladder
is completed, I make a new one. I found
such deeds as these recorded on the ladder
rounds: “I hid some steel-traps to keep
Amos from setting them”; “I took a rabbit
away from a dog”; “I fed a stray cat,” etc.

I have also organized our League into
sort of a Round Table. Our laws are sim-
ilar to those vows required by King Arthur.
We promise to speak truthfully, obey our
club laws and constitution, ﬁght for the
weakest side, and do a good deed every day.
We made posters showing pictures of
knights in armor, also a list of the boys’
names with a blank space beside each name.
We ﬁll up the blanks with their good deeds,
which represent honors won at a tourna-
ment. If we hear of a bad deed done we
put a yellow mark beside the boy’s name,
the yellow indicating a cowardly streak.
As yet we have no yellow marks.

For the past two weeks the ground has
been covered with a deep snow. Snows are
rare things in this section of Oklahoma,
the last snow falling in 1929. As all know,
snows mean rabbit hunting, a sport dear to
all rural boys’ hearts. I do not believe a
member of our League went hunting. I
have tried to teach them that in this twen-
tieth century of progress, hunting is a relic
of barbarism and as a sport should be out-
lawed. I think we have one of the best clubs
in the United States, and we invite members
of other Bands of Mercy to write to us. We
promise to answer all letters.

MRS. NELL WILSON
Wyatt High School, Bristow, Okla.

 

TEACHERS OF POLICE SCHOOL, ISTANBUL,
AT ROBERT COLLEGE

Beginning at the

Apr. 1933

Extracts from a Letter from
Fez

LL contributors to the Fez Fondouk
will read this with pleasure.

I made the other day the third of my
“surprise” visits to the Fondouk, approach-
ing it at sunset via the great highway from
Taza and the East, that great caravan track
over which for untold centuries the beast-
laden commerce has passed. It was a pleas-
ure to note as the Ford passed along that
apparently not a single animal showed
signs of ill-treatment or overloading.

At the Fondouk the ﬂags were down,
furled away. An Arab in uniform politely
admitted me. Everything seemed to be
working smoothly and efﬁciently, and this
was conﬁrmed on my formal visit of in-
spection, when I went over the plant. The
animal bath was swept clean. The small
parterres of simple ﬂowers and shrubs
added to the attractiveness of the place.

The shelter at the back now completed
and occupied, is of a warm brown color and
gives the establishment a ﬁnished appear-
ance.

The place had an air of peace and quietly
ordered efﬁciency, due in large measure to
the able and business-like administration in-
stalled and insisted upon by Mr. Williams,
and to the intelligence and capability of the
resident secretary, Mr. Brown, in carrying
out instructions and, when none may exist,
acting wisely on his own initiative.

The relations of the Fondouk with the
French and native authorities seem estab-
lished on a basis of friendly co-operation.
Needless to add, perhaps, it is evidently so
with the British.

There are several dogs, but the greatest
number of patients are pack animals, don-
keys, mules and the ﬁne-bred Arab ﬂea-
bitten ponies and horses.

(Signed) CHARLES H. FISKE

Monthly Report from Fez

Expense Account
January, 1933—31 Days

Daily average large animals 68.7
Forage for same $101.76
Daily average dogs
Forage for same 4.85
Put to sleep 22 9.10
Transportation 8.06
ages, grooms etc., 89.50
Inspector’s wages 18.20
Superintendent’s salary 97.85
Assistant’s salary 48.93
eterinary’s salary 15.66
Motor allowance 9.78
Sundries 6.20
$409.89

Entries: 11 horses, 7 mules, 43 donkeys.

Exits: 5 horses, 10 mules, 35 donkeys.

SUPT.’S NOTES: Very few animals in town, as
ploughing is still going on out in the country.

VISITS: 274 fondouks visited; 2,801 animals seen;
641 animals treated; 34 animals sent in.

No Help for It

Wife (with newspaper)—It says here

, that a well—known poet always recites his

verses to his dog.
Hub—Well, I suppose the S. P. C. A.
can’t be everywhere at once.

Long before man was dressing in skins
and had domesticated the dog, ants were
milking their aphid cows and taking them
out to pasture in the Spring to graze on
certain forms of vegetation.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 182

The Fox and the Lady

AGNES K. CARRUTH

A lady sought the for one day
And told him she was sent

To wipe an age-old feud away

For man desired peace so they
Must make a covenant.

“Madam,” the fox replied, “come in,”
And pushed aside a. boulder.

“But ﬁrst,” he added, with a grin,

“Will you remove my father’s skin
Which hangs upon your shoulder?”

Shall We Accept Dog
Racing?
L. E. EUBANKS

EGINNING in California, dog racing

threatens to become popular in many
Paciﬁc Coast cities. In Seattle, Wash., its
promoters waited only for the state de-
cision in favor of horse racing; then con-
struction of a dog track was immediately
started.

About the only thing that could be said
for dog racing is that it is less cruel than
that other form of coursing wherein live
rabbits are used. Since a mechanical rabbit
is to do the running in the more modern
sport (‘3) , we will not, at these tracks, have
to witness the sight of two dogs playing
tug-o’—war with an exhausted, terror-
stricken little animal.

Racing any animals under conditions
which permit betting is almost certain to
be more or less cruel; because as soon as
there exists a pecuniary reason for winning
some men will see to it that the opponent’s
animal is “ﬁxed.” Various types of such
ﬁxing have already appeared in dog racing.
We have only to reﬂect on the “crookedness”
of horse racing to understand the possibili-
ties for unfair and cruel measures with
the dogs.

Some persons argue that the dogs enjoy
it. Perhaps the winners do; but I have
known dogs to be abused by their masters
because they lost a race. They did not enjoy
it, nor those that were crippled in some way
by bribed handlers and had to run when
doing so gave pain.

Without going into details, thinking
people know that permitting such things is
a step backward. Its effect on our youth is
all for the bad; any inﬂuence that fosters
gambling and disregard for the feelings of
dumb animals is bound to be pernicious.

Why should the minority rule? As yet
only a small percentage of the people favor
dog racing; so let us try to squelch it as
promptly as possible; enough public dis-
approval will ban it.

The talk of individual rights sounds good;
but when a comparatively small class gets
its “rights” to a questionable amusement
that affects us all deleteriously—then the
welfare of the majority demands opposition.
I would not want a boy of mine to get inter-
ested in racing and the character dangers
that go with it; neither would you; and the
sporting people have no right to disregard
our desires in so vital a matter. I’m taking
a determined stand against this menace, and
I hope every reader of this article will do so.

OUR DUMB

TOO OFTEN SUCH CAPTIVES ARE
SEEN IN CRAMPED CAGES AT ROAD-
SIDE STANDS

 

The Man Who Realized

OSCAR H. ROESNER

FOUR weeks Clark Clemans lay ﬂat
on his back on a sick bed, staring up
at the ceiling of a small room as the long,
long days crawled slowly by. For a vigor-
ous outdoors man of the California Sierras
this was a new and galling experience. He
had never before realized what conﬁnement
day after day in a narrow room, shut com-
pletely away from the great outdoors he
loved so well, really meant. But he was
fully convinced long before the four weeks
were up that forced conﬁnement was some—
thlng decidedly trying and unpleasant for
man or beast, but especially so for a beast
once used to roaming the wild.

And when Clemans got out of that prison
of a room and back to his place of business
1n the free, fresh air, he did not forget his
thoughts, especially as they related to the
beast. So the very ﬁrst thing he did was
to open the door of a cage there and let
the wildcat, he had kept conﬁned as an at-
traction for the tourists stopping at his
servrce station, go its own free way again
into its native wild. The poor beast he ﬁg-
ured, must feel each day in that cage much
as he had when cooped up in that hated
room—and he wanted no more of that for
hlmself or even for a beast of the wild.

ANIMALS

 

Sept. 1933

Dogs—Just Dogs
BETH CHURCH

T was a typical matinee audience, gath-

ered in Hollywood’s famous Chinese
Theater for the ﬁrst showing of “Caval-
cade.” As I sank into my red-leather chair
I remarked to my neighbor, a pretty and in-
telligent girl, “Well, I suppose I shall cry
my eyes out over this. War pictures always
make me cry.” And I have lived through all
the harrowing years of cavalcade myself,
many of them under the English ﬂag.

I do not remember now whether the pic-
ture made me cry or not. The thing that
sears my memory is a trained-animal act
that was included in the Prologue. As a rule
I avoid theatres that mix up vaudeville with
motion pictures, but Cavalcade was a picture
not to be missed, and I had hoped that the
famous prologues associated with this the-
ater might taboo animal stunts.

Not so. I presently found myself shud-
dering at the marvelously performed acro-
batics of a set of dogs, realizing only too
vividly the intensity and kind of training
that must have gone to produce» that un-
natural perfection. The audience loudly
applauded every feat, as their prototypes
doubtless applauded the doomed gladiators
in the Roman arena.

The climax of the act came when a small
white dog, having gone faultlessly through
his other paces, was ﬂung up into the air
by his trainer, and caught on his_extended
palm. On this hand the little animal bal-
anced himself on one silky paw for an
appreciable number of seconds, head down,
tail straight up in the air. The applause
was vociferous.

I don’t know just what I said under my
breath, but my neighbor looked startled. She
had been clapping enthusiastically. “Doesn’t
that make you suffer?” I demanded indig-
nantly. Apparently such an idea had never
yet entered her mind. She continued to re-
gard me at intervals with frank curiosity.

When some acrobats began to do their
stuff, she remarked, “I suppose you’ll mind
this, too?”

“No,” I answered. “I don’t enjoy dan-
gerous stunts, but at least, these people do
it of their own free will.”

“What about those ‘Barkies’ that one of
the studios has been making?” she presently
asked.

“Pitiful!” I responded with whole-hearted
emphasis. “A dog has too much natural
dignity to be made to act like a silly human
being. But, of course, dressing them up in
ridiculous clothes and teaching them to
bark or whine as an invisible actor utters
their supposed sentiments, does not involve
any real cruelty. Their owners value their
services and their naturalness, which is as
indispensable for animals on the screen as
for persons, too highly to permit any abuse.”

“Well,” she observed, “I guess I never
thought about it before.”

The house-ﬂy has about 4,000 eye-lenses,
the cabbage butterﬂy and the dragonﬂy

about 17,000, and some species of beetle have
25,000.

When a small part of a limb of a taran—
tula (spider) is injured the creature will
bite off the rest of the limb up to the break—
lng point, to aid growth of the new part.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 180

small, from the Atlantic to the Paciﬁc, cry
aloud to Heaven for reform.

Nothing but an aroused and determined
public opinion,—an opinion informed as to
the methods by which our food animals are
being killed, an opinion indignant and out-
raged because in a civilized country hu-
maner methods have not been devised by
those whose business it is to destroy these
animals—nothing but this will wipe this
reproach from our nation and bring the
day when the animals sacriﬁced by us for
human food shall be treated, in the sacriﬁce,
with that justice and compassion we should
claim for ourselves were we in their place
and they in ours.

So far as I can see it, then, it remains
for every humane organiZation of this
country by every means within its power
to keep every man and woman and child it
can reach informed as to the cruelties now
existing in the slaughter houses of this
land, urging upon them to purchase only
such meat products, if it be possible, of
animals as have been humanely slaugh-
tered. Where such meat cannot be ob-
tained, then, if we are in earnest in this
matter, let us cut down our consumption
of the meat of animals inhumanely de-
stroyed. In all our public meetings, in our
private conversations, through the press,
through every channel open to us let us
create a public opinion that shall demand
such reform in the slaughtering methods
by which our food animals are destroyed as
shall justify our existence as humane or-
ganizations and entitle us to be called a
civilized people.

Summary of address before American
Humane Association, 1933, by DR. FRAN-
CIS H. ROWLEY, Chairman of National
Committee on Slaughter-House Reform.

The Elk Slaughter

Editorial in Advertiser-Journal, Kent, Wash.

OUR days of downright butchery

marked the ﬁrst open season on Roose-
velt elk in the Olympic peninsula. That was
to have been expected. Since these noble ani-
mals were planted in the Olympic peninsula
years ago, they have been given every pro-
tection possible against poachers and preda-
tory animals. They have grown compara-
tively tame and often motorists were thrilled
at the sight of a great herd of the beautiful
animals feeding without fear along the high-
ways. The elk, too, had in a measure lost
their fear of man.

Then last week came the open season
and hunters swarmed the hills and woods
with high-powered riﬂes and the slaughter
was on. Hundreds of the animals were killed
and brought out by proud hunters. Prob-
ably as many more died of wounds inﬂicted
by careless hunters.

And this is called sport. After years of
protection there is about as much sport
attached to shooting elk as going out into
the pasture and shooting the family cow.

It is hoped the state game commission
will rectify its mistake and again protect
the Roosevelt elk of the Olympic peninsula.

There are now more animals in the na-
tional parks than at any time since they
became game sanctuaries. The park rang-
ers look to the welfare of the animals in
the winter and supplement the wild forage
with feed when necessary.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

Torture
JUDITH KANE

A window—sill where the sun beats down,
The hottest place for a coon in town;

A honk, a sputter, a call for gas
By-men who point at me as they pass.

A chain to keep me from running away
Where fields are green and other coons play,
Where nuts are sweet and ﬁshing is good,—
A coon can be himself in a wood.

But here on a sill, a- dog below
To bark and growl and frighten me so,
I sit all day in consternation,—
This is life in a Filling Station.

Protection of Birds Profitable

Governments have found protection to
wild life to be economically quite valuable as
may be seen in Peru. The guanaye or Peru-
vian cormorant inhabits the islands in 'the
Humboldt current off the coast of Peru. On
these islands millions of the birds collect,
feed upon ﬁsh and nest. The ﬁsh-waste
and the excrement from the countless birds
accumulated for hundreds of years, and the
deposits grew to great thickness. The de-
posits have been worked since 1842, yield-
ing millions of tons of guano, a high-grade
fertilizer. The birds are now protected by
law as a conservation policy. Not until
about the year 1931 was any motor vehicle
or aeroplane permitted on or near their
habitation. Since then caterpillar tractors
have been introduced to take the place of
the old-fashioned system of hand mining,
but great care has been taken to cause the
birds no anxiety. JOHN H. JOLLIEF

Dec. 1933
Something New in Pets

SILVERQUIL‘L

HE emotions of men are as strange
T as their ways, and both are often be-
yond explanation.

One makes a pet of a chipmunk; another
is enamored of a horned toad, a horse, a
fawn, a rattlesnake, a young coyote, a bear,
a weasel or a wildcat; while one remote and
forgotten hermit shared his cabin with a
pair of young beavers, which proceeded im-
mediately to wreck the place by tearing
up the ﬂoor, from which they constructed
miniature dams, and their nascent houses
out of his ﬁrewood.

And now comes the case of an old fron-
tiersman, who lives at the bottom of a
nameless canon in the mighty shadow of
the War Eagle Range in the far North-
west, who has added a decidedly interesting
member to the list by selecting the sage hen
as his pleasure and his passion.

This beautiful, stately gray bird, which
is twice the size of a grouse, very proud
and wild, and which ﬂies with an unusually
clean, brave wing, nests in the foothill
regions of the high mountains in the sum—
mer, spends the winter on the purple sage
wastes of the desert, and has the strange
distinction of having a stomach like a sheep
but not a crop or gizzard.

One day this grizzled pioneer discovered
that his long narrow ranch, with its fringes
of willows and dancing aspens, had been
pre-empted as a hatching-place by several
mothers of this charming species, and he at
once took a deep interest in them. Approach—

ing as near as he dared to the brooding

creatures, he would scatter grain for them
where they could see it.

At ﬁrst they would soar away in worried,
protesting ﬂight, but they were not long in
learning that he was their friend, and he
found the food gone. In a brief time they
were quite tame, and with their little ones
Would come to- him to get what he had
brought them to eat. So do almost all ani-
mals known yield to kindness and good-will.

Pretty soon those parents brought their
families to the house, and invited themselves
to share in the larders of their domesticated
sisters. This, it may be said with much con-
ﬁdence, was something that had never hap-
pened before. And then, in those mysteri-
ous and unknown ways by which the crea-
tures of the wilderness communicate with
each other, these fortunate ones told their
wild neighbors, and soon the little ranch had
become a veritable refuge for those prized
and hunted things.

But the old man knew his kind; he had
a perfect understanding of the blood-lust,
so he knew the “killers” would come. And
come they did, but the wise old border phil-
anthropist was ready for them. Only one
man could hunt on‘ the ranch at a time, and
he must use the gun and ammunition fur-
nished by the pioneer, which, of course, was
free. Could anything be more to the liking
of the “Slayers?” So they went forth, pant-
ing to ﬁll their gluttonous, insatiate hooks
with a smother of dead, pathetic feet, but.
all returned empty and crestfallen.

The shells were loaded with wheat!

Join the Jack London Club and help stop
the cruelty in training animals for stage
performances.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THE MASSACHUSETTS SOCIETY FOR THE
PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS
AND THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY

 

 

 

 




 

 

Dec. 1933

Is it Nothing to You?

DAVID LEE? WHARTON

0h woman with the, furs! is it nothing to
you

The agony suﬂered the long night through,

The broken foot, and the burning thirst;

The terror that smites in that trap accurst,

The frantic struggles of a little dumb
brother,

Or mayhap, a furry little mother

Tortured and murdered, as she sought food

For her precious, hungry little brood?

The starving young, as they waited in vain,

The mother who never would come again,

That mother slain by a greedy human

To deck a heartless or thoughtless woman.

Oh, the torture, the terror, the gaining
thirst,

The struggle and strain
accurst!

The agony watches the long night through,

Oh! woman with the furs, is it nothing to
you.

Facts About Fish

WILL HERMAN

HERE are about 10,000 ﬁsh known,

from those that reach a maximum
length of one-half inch to those which have
a minimum adult length of ﬁfty feet.

The surface-swimming ﬁsh of Brazil and
the Guianas have eyes which are divided in
the center, horizontally. The upper half is
used when swimming on the surface, the
lower half used when swimming below the
surface!

Although ﬁsh are commonly thought to be
silent, many make vocal sounds. The gur-
nards grunt like pigs; the maigre bellows,
purrs and whistles; the American sunﬁsh
emits sounds similar to the grinding of
teeth and the South American catﬁsh growls
much like a dog!

The salmon, the most productive of all
ﬁsh, has been known to lay over twenty mil-
lion eggs at one time!

Many ﬁsh are able to walk about on land,
and many can even climb trees!

The mud-skipper and gurnard are able to
ﬂop about on land, and are often found
forty and ﬁfty feet from the shore. The
climbing perch, an inhabitant of Ceylon,
Burma, India, and the Malay Archipelago,
can climb trees of a goodly height by means
of its extra powerful ﬁns.

The eel is the most famous of the electric
shock artists among the ﬁsh colony. How-
ever, there are about ﬁfty different species
of ﬁsh capable of giving electric shocks. A
few are the electric cat—ﬁsh of the Nile; the
torpedo or electric ray of our own shores;
the star-gazer of the Indian Ocean; and
many others belonging to the cat-ﬁsh tribe.

In the famous Mammoth Cave of Ken-
tucky, the ﬁsh are all blind!

As the age of a tree can be told by its
rings, so can the age of a salmon be told by
the concentric ridges on its scales. Also, to
an expert, these ridges which are of light
and dark shades, tell its complete life his-
tory.

in that trap

Attention is called to the humane ﬁlms,
“On Behalf of Animals” and “The Bell of
Atri,” described on the back cover of this
issue.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

Page 181

Christmas Choristers of the North

EARLE W. GAGE

ATURE’S Christmas choristers of the
N Far North sing a wild symphony in
song under the glare of Arctic skies.
Not “waits” of old England, but wolves,
tamed wolves with untamed voices, these
animals celebrate the Yuletide under weird
northern lights. .
Like a peal of bells in a cathedral steeple,
above the height of land, as a choir loft,
they sing the Christmas carols of the hin-
terland. How these Husky dogs do throw
back their throats and show red tongues—
red as holly berries—teeth as white as
organ keys, as they sing! They are bari—
tones, basso profundos, and tenors. They
run the whole gamut of Christmas glee.
They are Arctic contraltos and mezzo, but
never muzzled, sopranos. On Christmas Eve
they are off on the snowy trail with a wail.
They are calling to Christmas dinner all
that immense country that lies north of the
60th degree symbolized in ancient and mod-
ern history.

It is no “caput apri refero” that they are ,

chanting. They do not demand a boar’s
head; they would be overjoyed with a moose
head; they would even be content with ﬁsh
heads. These Carusos and Galli Curcis of
true Santa Claus Land do not insist on a
Metropolitan Opera. House in which to sing
their carols.

At Christmas, the northland is divided
into two empires, the holly belt and the
Husky belt. If you live in the latter your
heart will leap with joy at the open mouths
of these native Christmas songsters. If you
have run on frozen trails, or tramped knee
deep or waist deep in snow-drifted trails,
making all speed, or no speed at all, to
some distant Christmas dinner, the very
sight of these dog songsters caroling lustily
will make you exclaim as never before,
“Hark, the herald angels sing!”

Down in the soft, southern, slush land,
where a white Christmas brings unexpected
rapture to the hearts of small boys, who
have found a toboggan or a pair of skis in
their stocking, church bell calls to church
bell the glad news that Christmas Eve has
passed into Christmas Day. Way up in
the great North, from Lake Mistassinni to
the mighty Mackenzie, where pork and

 

by..." ....' m

beans are as likely as not to comprise the
Christmas feast, like wild bells ringing out
to a wild sky, Husky calls to Husky, from
Hudson’s Bay Post to Hudson’s Bay Post.
That is the true wireless of the North, the
one native Christmas greeting all under-
stand, to be thrilled.

On Christmas Eve, tune out the jazz from
the radio and tune in on the land of the
wild drake and the Arctic Circle. Break
through the southern static of church bells
and listen in on the chorus of Husky yells
that from Labrador to the Mountains of
British Columbia and Alaska, chant north-
ern carols to the accompaniment of north-
ern lights.

Then you will know some-thing of the
music of a real Christmas in the North.
Perhaps you are content with the music of
the red tissue paper Christmas bells that
hang in the window, or from the parlor
chandelier. Perhaps you shiver at the very
thought of the north wind whistling over
the frozen muskeg, and think the true
Christmas music the whistle of the trafﬁc
oﬂicer shepherding the late Christmas shop-
pers at a downtown intersection. You just
do not like the frozen music of the North!
Well, there is no disputing of tastes,
whether in Christmas music or Christmas
festivities, but the fact remains that the
true Christmas is born of the North, where
these Huskies sing their carols.

Don’t be too dogmatic in asserting that
these Husky wassailers are not singing a
true Christmas glee. You have read some-
where that the Huskies spend their nights
weeping the blows they have received dur-
ing the day. Writers have made your ﬂesh
creep by their description of the long-
drawn, mournful howls, the upper register
shriek and the lower register sob, of these
Huskies of the northern trails mouthing
their melancholy ballads of bondage. You
just can’t imagine that a mameluke aria
can be a mirthful madrigal to any one.

You think the tinkle of reindeer bells, the
honk of taxi horns, the postman’s knock
lyrical because they bring you Christmas
presents. You would soon feel that these

Husky carols are poetical, if you but real-
ized that they are the Christmas carriers

 

U. S. MAIL TEAM BRINGING CHRISTMAS CHEER TO THE NORTH

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 80

Perilous Life of the Gulls

ALAN DE VAUX

AST night the Cape tip was shrouded
L in fog. Fog-bells clanged ceaselessly,
and the strong beacon of Wood End light-
house was visible only as the faintest glow
through the dripping murk. And twice in
the night there were thuds against my win-
dow-pane, and in the morning there lay in
the garden a gull with a broken wing. Fog
——that heavy saturated fog that in winter
obliterates our seaside village one day in
every seven—is but one of the perils to
the gulls. Often a dozen or a score of dead
and crippled gulls are found at the base
of the lighthouse when dawn comes after
one of these nights of fog.

When a storm breaks, and the sea even
inside the normally quiet harbor seethes
and boils, the gulls are in two-fold danger.
They are threatened by both wind and sea.
If they rest on the waves in-shore there is
the possibility that a sudden rearing comber
will dash them on the beach, and if they
take to the air they are buffeted and blown
about and rendered helpless by the gale.
More than once, at the height of a sou’-
easter, I have seen a whole ﬂock in ﬂight
ﬂung by a sudden twist of the gale against
some building or wharf. And always the
day after a storm reveals the bodies of those
that have tried to ride the sea and have
been dashed upon the rocks like driftwood.

Many the gulls that have followed hope-
fully a little ﬁshing-boat, and dived for a
morsel that has been thrown overboard, and
never risen again. For in the wake of the
ﬁshing-boats is often a trail of oil. Viscid
pools of it ﬂoat on the surface of the sea,
and the gull that lights in such a pool is
doomed. The oil soaks into the feathers,
sticks them together, and makes them heavy
as lead. And the gull, unable to rise, rides
helpless on the waves until starvation
comes.

It is a hazardous life they lead, these
trim gray birds that circle ceaselessly above
our shore and harbor. Just now a fog is
rolling in from the sea, great waves and
billows of it that cling in the still air. The
fog-horn has begun to blow, and mingled
with its mournful wail is the wail of the
wheeling gulls. Like phantoms they circle
through the mist, crying and screaming.
How many will be dead when tomorrow
comes?

The gray squirrel must be given credit
for planting most of the nut-bearing trees
of North America.

OUR DUMB ANIIUALS

Angelo Patri

The Happy, Healthy Child is Not
Cruel to Animals

Reprinted by special permission of the Bell
Syndicate, Inc.

HAVE had several letters from mothers

of very young children asking what can
be done to check the cruelty they show
toward animals. “I am horriﬁed at the
treatment the baby gives our dog. He is a
faithful old watchdog that we have had ﬁve
years and the baby sticks his ﬁngers in his
eyes, pulls his ears, and his tongue, steps
on his tail, pulls his hair. I can’t make him
stop. Does this mean that he is going to be
cruel to all animals? What can I do about
it?”

Little children who are just getting about
the world know nothing of cruelty. They
have not suffered it. Pain is almost a
stranger to them and they have never ex-
perienced wilfully inﬂicted pain. They do
not understand that they hurt the animal.
They are trying to ﬁnd out what he is made
of, what he does, how he behaves when they
do this and that. When the animal turns
on them they are surprised and hurt. That
teaches them not to do too much and that
helps some. .

We train little children to be kind to the
animals. When they hurt them we tell them
so and we appeal to their emotions, their
tenderness for hurt things, their affection
for their friends, the dog and the eat, their
sportsmanship and the like. Lecturing them
about it won’t help much but an appeal to
their feelings will help a lot.

Cruelty to animals is excusable in little
children. It is to be corrected and trained
out of them. In children over 6 and under
10 it is to be guarded against and punished.
The pets are taken from their care. The
grown-up people express their disapproval
by word-and action. The offender is made
to feel himself outside the line. But, whena
child over 10 wilfully hurts an animal, there
is no excuse. He has to stop. He has to
change his attitude toward the helpless crea-
tures that come his way or be helped to
change it.

Very few children are cruel to animals
knowingly. When you come across such a
child you know he is unusual. You watch
him and study him to see what ails him.
Something is wrong. His mental and physi-
cal health are questionable. The cause of
the feeling that vents itself upon the ani-
mals must be found, rooted out, and the
child helped to health and happiness.

Children who hurt animals are not happy
children. Happy children know and reﬂect

 

 

TO OUR FRIENDS

In making your will, kindly bear in mind that the corporate title of our Society is “The
Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals”: that it is the second
incorporated (March, 1868) Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals in the country,
and that it has no connection with any other similar Society.

Any bequest especially intended for the beneﬁt of the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital
should, nevertheless, be made to The Massachusetts Societv for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals “for the use of the Hospital,” as the Hospital is not incorporated but is the
property of that Society and is conducted by it.

FORM or BEQUEST

I give to.The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention‘of Cruelty to Animals (or
to The American Humane Education Society), the sum of ............................
dollars (or, if other property), describe the property).

 

 

May, 1933

loving kindness. It is useless to ask a child
to reﬂect love. Nobody does that consciously.
The instant consciousness enters into that
situation you can know that hypocrisy came
also.

The happy, and that means the healthy
child, is not cruel. He makes a mistake, but
that is a different thing. The cruel child is
an ailing child. Somewhere he has suffered,
or is suffering, and the healing ”must take
place before his attitude changes. You know
how you waken some ﬁne mornings with a'
feeling of well being. You are at peace
with the world and your heart is full of
kindness to every living thing. You are well
that morning. Until the erring child feels
that way he is not going to be cured. Kind-
ness is a feeling. The intellect hasn’t a
thing to do with it.

(Copyright, 1933)

Animal Pets of the Carlylles

In his book “The Carlyles’ Chelsea Home,”
referring to the house in Cheyne Row where
Thomas Carlyle lived nearly 47 years, Reg-
inald Blunt writes:

I never mount those garret stairs With-
out recalling one charming little reminis—
cence. “Nero,” the little white Cuban span-
iel came to them in the winter of 1849—50,
and during the next ten years before his
death (after being run over by a cart), he
became a devoted little companion, greatly
beloved by Mrs. Carlyle, and gradually en-
dearing himself to her husband, whom he
regularly accompanied, to the very end, in
his evening rambles. “Once, perhaps in his
third year here, he came pattering upstairs
to my garret; scratched duly, was let in,
and brought me (literally) the gift of a
horse (which I had talked of needing)!
Brought me, to wit, a letter hung to his
neck, inclosing on a saddler’s card the picture
of a horse, and adjoined to it her cheque for
50 pounds, full half of some poor legacy
that had fallen to her.” Carlyle could not
accept the gift, but he did get a horse soon
afterwards ;' and he grew to love the small
comrade of his night-walks, “the little dim
white speck of life, of love, ﬁdelity, and
feeling, girdled by the darkness as of Night
eternal;” and on “February 1st, 1860,”
Nero, mercifully put out of pain by Dr.
Barnes, was honorably buried at the end
of the garden, where a stone, with date and
name, long marked the spot.

 

 

Our Dumb Animals

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by:
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston ofﬁce; 180 Longwood Avenue.

Address all communications to Boston.

TERMS

One dollar per year. Postage free to any part of
the world.

Humane Societics and Agents are invited to cor-
respond with us for terms on large orders.

All dollar subscriptions sent direct to the ofﬁce en-
title the sender to membership in either of our two
Societies.

RATES OF MEMBERSHIP IN
THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
OR THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.

Active Life $100 00 Active Annual $10 00

Associate Life 50 00 Associate Annual 5 00

Sustaining 20 00 Annual 1 00
Children’s $0.75

Checks and other payments may be sent to ALBERT
A. POLLARD, Treasurer, 180 Longwood Avenue,
Boston.

Manuscript should be addressed to the

Editor,
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston. «

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 106

   
   

  

GOD,
PEACE ON EARTH,
KINDNESS, JUSTICE
AND MERCY T0
EVERY leme
CREATURE.

7.
m
2';

    

 

 
   
  

Founded by Geo. T. Angell. Incorporated, 1889

For rates of membership in both of our Societies
see back cover. Checks should be made payable to
Treasurer.

Ofﬁcers of the American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds

JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman, Chase Harris Forbes
Corporation

CHARLES G. BANCROF‘T, Vice-President, United Shoe
Machinery Corporation

PHILIP STOCKTON, President, First National Bank of
Boston

Foreign Corresponding Representatives

George B. Duff ................... Australia

Luis Pareja Cornejo ............... Ecuador

Charles A. Williams ............... France

Leonard T. Hawksley ....... . ...... Italy

Mrs. Mary P. E. Nitobe .......... Japan

Mrs. Marie C. E. Houghton ........ Madeira

Dr. A. T. Ishkanian ............... Mexico

Luther Parker ..................... Philippine Islands
Joaquin Julia ..................... Spain

Mrs. Alice W. Manning ............ Turkey

Humane Press Bureau

Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke, Secretary
180 Longwood Ave., Boston

Field Workers of the Society
Mrs. Alice L. Park, Palo Alto, California
Mrs. Rachel C. Hogue, San Diego, California
Mrs. Jennie R. Nichols, Tacoma, Washington
James D. Burton, Oakdale, Tennessee
Mrs. Katherine Weathersbee, Atlanta, Georgia
Rev. F. Rivers Barnwell, Fort Worth, Texas
Miss Blanche Finley, Richmond, Virginia
Rev. John W. Lemon, Ark, Virginia
Miss Lucia F. Gilbert, Boston, Massachusetts
Mrs. Jennie R. Toomim, Chicago, Illinois
Seymour Carroll, Columbia, S. C.

Field Representative
Wm. F. H. Wentzell, M.S., Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

Field Lecturer in Massachusetts
Ella A Maryott

A Bird’s Lullaby

MARGARET E. BRUNER

You would not think a bird could sing
A lullaby—

All day I’ve been remembering

Dark, cloudy sky,

And rain-drenched boughs, the restless cheep
0f baby birds,

Then, fearful lest some evil creep,

The mother’s words :—

Soothing and low as if she said,
“Hush, have no fear,

For over you my wings I spread,
N0 harm is near.”

And I, too, trusted in the bird,
Yet knew not why,

But blessed the hour when I heard
That lullaby.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Japanese Nationalism

HE following quotation is from the
Japanese New National Language
Reade-r, Vol. 6; lesson 28:

“What shall Japan contribute to the
world? All Japanese must awaken to their
duty to execute the divine punishment. By
attacking or by punitive treatment, the
powers of the world must be broken down
in order to fulﬁll the divine mission of
Japan. Some day, when, having swept
away all rottenness and subjugated all ar-
rogant and impolite countries of the world,
Japan shall be the king of the world and
lord over the whole universe.”

This sample of what Japan is persist-
ently instilling in the minds of the pupils
in her schools, relic of a day the most of
us have thought dead, explains much of
her recent conduct. Can she continue to
defy the rest of the world as well as China?

The Next War

General A. E. Ross of Canada, doctor,
chemist and soldier of the World War, said:

“Three drops will kill. It is a gas against
which our masks would be no protection
whatever. One part of this gas in 10,000,000
parts of air will put a man out of action in
one minute. It was tried on a herd of goats
and it killed all but four. Two planes could
carry enough to destroy the population of
London.” -—Lab0r, April 18, 1933

The “next war” will take as many weeks
as the last war took years and civilization
will be blotted out. That is the picture
General Sir Ian Hamilton, a famous British
military leader and Chief of the British
Legion, drew in a speech to the British Vet-
erans of the Great War.

“The huge masses of infantry on either
side will never get into contact. The whole
of the mechanized motor-driven forces of
either side will meet at once under the sea,
in the air and on the land. Each will be—
must be—rushing forward to seize an ad-
vance base for their aerodromes and oil
depots on enemy soil. That ﬁrst encounter
will almost certainly decide the war. The-
victorious tanks and airplanes will eat up
the hostile infantry and artillery. Then
they will begin to lap up the civilian popu-
lation as a cat laps up cream.”

——San Francisco Examiner, April 2, 1933

Appeal to Friends of Animals

Inasmuch as great cruelty is often prac-
ticed in the training of performing ani-
mals, and the making of motion pictures
featuring animals, and inasmuch as wit-
nessing cruelty is most disastrous in its
effect on character when indulged in for
pleasure, the Women’s Humane Club of
Southern California urges all friends of
animals and human beings to refuse to buy
tickets for any entertainment in which ani—
mals are tormented, tortured or killed, and
to send a written and signed protest to the
manager of the theatre advertising it. To
withhold patronage from programs present—
ing either real or faked cruelty to animals
is the quickest and surest way to discourage
such deplorable means of amusement.

We are glad to reproduce this appeal. It
was signed by eighteen organizations.

July, 1933

Fez American Fondouk

Monthly Report
April, 1933 — 30 Days
Daily average large animals 87.4

Forage for same $96.88
Daily average dogs
Forage for same 4.09
Put to sleep 11 2.97
Transportation 4.35
Wages, grooms, etc. 78.45
Inspector’s wages 17.80
Superintendent’s salary 99.00
Assistant’s salary 49.50
Veterinary’s salary 15.84
Motor allowance 9.90
Sundries 13.47
$392.25

Entries: 15 horses, 23 mules, 71 donkeys.
Exits: 13 horses, 15 mules, 67 donkeys.

SUPT.’S NOTES: From April 6th to April 12th
no Native Fondouk inspections were made, because
of the Arab Feast (Aid el Kebir).

Assistant and Inspector’s Report on the 70 Na-
tive Fondouks: Visits made during month, 320;
animals seen, 3,020; animals treated, 709; animals
taken to the American Fondouk, 77.

Mr. Brown, our superintendent of the
Fondouk, writes the following most inter-
esting bit of news:

“In about a month’s time, I am creditably
informed, we shall have a new arreté mun-
icipal which allows punishment for over-
loading and ill-treating of animals, with
penalties from 5 to 15 frcs. and up to 7
days in prison.

“I will send you the text as soon as it is
to be had.”

Here is another evidence of the inﬂuence
the Fondouk is exerting for the care and
protection of animals in Fez.

Word has just reached us of the gift of
another handsome granite fountain for the
Fondouk through Col. Percy Laurie, D. S.
0., M. C., the head of London’s mounted
police at New Scotland Yard. Many have
known of Col. Laurie’s extraordinarily ﬁne
scheme of trafﬁc control in London.

Do You Know?

Under this question we print the answer
from a card issued by the Federal Council
of Churches of Christ in America:

1. That 9,998,771 soldiers were killed or
died in the World War? And that another
20,297,551 were wounded?

2. That in 1918 the daily cost of war
was $224,000,000?

3. That the nations are this year spend-
ing more than $10,000,000 a day for war
preparations?

4. That the United States expends ap-
proximately $83,333 per hour or $2,000,000
each day on its army and navy?

5. That the world’s expenditures for
armaments for one year would pay the
expenses of the League of Nations, includ-
ing the World Court and the International
Labor Oﬂice, for six hundred years?

5. That only $545,000,000 out of a total
United States budget of $3,500,000,000
will be expended on civil functions of gov-
ernment during the ﬁscal year beginning
July 1, 1933? And that virtually all of
this $545,000,000 will consist of taxes col-
lected on sales of cigars, cigarettes, and
miscellaneous fees, while all income taxes
and revenue-s from imports and other
sources go to pay for past and future wars?

7. That the cost of the battleship “Colo-
rado” was $27,000,000? And that this sum
is only $3,000,000 less than the total en-
dowment which Johns Hopkins University
has accumulated since it was founded in
1876?

 

 

 

 

 




 

AND THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY

THE MASSACHUSETTS SOCIETY FOR THE
PREVENTION OF

CRUE LTY TO ANIMALS

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THE WHOLE FAMILY

    

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SEPTEMBER

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

Page [,6

Thayer, Mrs. E. R. Watkins, Miss Emma C.
Thissell, Mrs. Gertrude M.Webster, Ruth E.
Thompson, Miss Mary West, Miss Edith E.

Helen Whitman, Hendrick H.
Thorn, Mrs. Mary Whitney, Mrs. Geoﬁt'rey G.
Thurber, Mrs. C. H. Wilkes, Mrs. Madge
Thurston, Mrs. Mary A. Wilkinson, Edw. S.
Tilton, Joseph B. Williams, Mrs. E. S.
Tolfree, Edw. R. Wilson, Miss Helen L.
Tower, Miss Florence E. Winkley, H. W.
Travelli, Mrs. Charles I. Wood, Cornelius A.
Twombly, John Fogg Wood, Miss Rosalind
Underwood, Miss Mary R. Wood, Mrs. William M.
Underwood, Miss Sophia Woodman, Miss Mary

A Wright, Mrs. Eva Edgar
Young, Mrs. B. L.
Young, Percy L.
Younglove, Mrs. Wm. K.
Younglove, William K.

Upham, Miss E. Annie
Valentine, Mrs. Grace E.
Walker, John B.

Ward, Miss M. DeC.
Waterman, Mrs. Charles H.

Associate Life Members

Arnold, Miss Abbie T. Phillips, Mrs. Elizabeth D.
Babcock, Miss Edith Pillsbury, Parker W.

Beekman, John V., Jr. Pitman, Mrs. Theodore B.
Beekman, Mrs. John V., Powers, Mrs. L. C.
Jr. Pratt, Mrs. Clara E.

Pratt, R. M.

Putnam, Mrs. Harriet
Richards, E. Ira
Richardson, Mrs. Guy
Rockwell, C. P.

Rogers, Miss Catherine L.
Saﬁ‘ord, Mrs. Nath’l M.
Carpenter, Edwin Z. Schweppe, Mrs. H. M.
Coburn, Mrs. C. W. Seeberg, Elizabeth
Coolidge, Miss Annie Belle Shattuck, Miss G. A.
Crocker, Mrs. Caroline B. Short, Mrs. Eliza B.
Edmunds, Miss Helen C. Simmons, Miss F. W.
Foster, Miss H. W. Singleton, George F. S.
Fowler, Josiah M. Skinner, Mrs. Sarah E.
Freshel, Mrs. Curt P. Sloan, Mrs. E. S.
Goddard, Benjamin Soule, Miss Sarah M.
Grimes, E. E. Stearns, Miss Ellen
Holland, Miss Florence Stearns, Miss Priscilla
Hollingsworth, Mrs. P. R. Stone, Miss Esther A.
Hooper, Edward W. Thayer, Charles E.
Hosmer, Miss Phoebe Lee Thayer, E. K.

Besson, Florence C.
Bliss, Philip W.
Bowler, Mrs. Mary W.
Burdett, Mrs. Paul
Burnham, Henry D.
Byington, Mrs. E. H.
Caldwell, Miss L. W.

Hyslop, Samuel Thayer, Miss Harriet F.
Ingram-Eiser, Mrs. Alex- Thayer, Miss Marjorie
ander Thayer, Miss Nancy

Jones, Miss Helen L.
King, Mrs. H. P.
Kingsbury, W. S.
Leve, Mrs. Sigmund Walker, Mrs. William B.
Minot, C. H. Webster, H. S.
Newcombe, Miss Adelaide Wheelwright, Mrs. A. C.
W. Williams, Mrs. Bertha F.
Osborne, Lyman P. Williams, Mrs. Edward R.

Thorndike, Albert
Van Horn, Dora
Van Horn, Elsa

Generous Commendation

Writing in the News, Sausalito, Ca1if.,
Mabel Ketchum Eastman says that Our
Dumb Animals is found each month on the
table in the public library and that the
library will allow all of the copies, except
the current one, to be taken home so that
the entire family may read them. She goes
on: “It is the best magazine of its kind,
published in America. Not only does it tell
you each month what has been accomplished
over the world for the relief of animals,
but it gives many animal stories, poems,
pictures, and accounts of the habits of wild
life, both animals and birds. Children will
be fascinated. It is a monthly magazine
that should not be missed.”

More friends are needed to endow stalls
and new kennels in the Angel] Memorial
Animal Hospital. Payments of thirty-ﬁve
dollars for a kennel or seventy-ﬁve dollars
for a stall will insure a suitable marker
inscribed with donor’s name. Terms of per-
manent endowment of free stalls and ken-
nels will be given upon application to the

Massachusetts S. P. C. A., 180 Longwood

Avenue, Boston.

OUR DUMB ANIAIALS

OFFICERS OF THE AMERICAN
HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
FOR 1933

President

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY

Vice-Presidents
CHARLES 'G. BANCROFT
WILLIAM DANA ORCUTT

Honorary Vice-Presidents

His Excellency Joseph B. Ely, Governor of
Massachusetts
Ex-Governor Channing H. Cox, Boston
Baldwin, Mrs. M. W., Sioux City, Iowa
Baxter, Hon. Percival P., Portland, Me.
Beebe, Ethel Fairmont, Cheshire, Conn.
Boyce, Aline J., Woodstock, Vt.
Campbell, Patrick T., Boston
Champlin, Mme. A. de, New York, N. Y.
Clarke, Miss Frances E., Brooklyn, N. Y.
Crossman, Howard A., Hampton Falls, N.H.
Everitt, Mrs. Ellen Knapp, Escondido,
Calif.
Fay, Miss Sarah B., Boston
Frederick, Mrs. O. F., West Lawn, “Pa.
Hardy, Mrs. Richard, Chattanooga, Tenn.
Harris, Mrs. Amy E., Pasadena, Calif.
Hunt, Mrs. Charlotte L., Chicago, Illinois
Kendall, Miss Georgiana, New York City
Landes, Bernard 8., Colorado Springs, Colo.
Manning, Mrs. Alice W., Istanbul, Turkey
McSkimmon, Miss Mary, Brookline
Olney, Miss Elizabeth W., Providence, RI.
Preston, Mrs. H. Clay, Binghamton, N. Y.
Rutherford, Frank B., Philadelphia, Pa.
Smith, Payson, Boston
Weeks, Edwin R., Kansas City, Mo.
Wentzel, Wm. F. H., Pittsburgh, Pa.
Winship, Albert E., Boston

Treasurer: ALBERT A. POLLARD
GUY RICHARDSON

Counsel: PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY
& STOREY

Secretary:

Directors of the American Humane

Education Society
Dr. Francis H. Rowley, President

Miss Sarah J. Eddy Stanwood K. Bolton
William Dana Orcutt Walter B. Pope

Mrs. Geoffrey G. Whitney John R. Macomber
William E. Putnam John R. Forgie

Mrs. M. Jennie Kendall Mrs. Margaret Deland
Charles G. Bancroft Frank M. Hotchkin
Walter M. Kendall Philip Stockton

Hon. Joseph A. Sheehan

Trustees of Permanent Funds
John R. Macomber, Chairman of Chase
Harris Forbes Corporation

Charles G. Bancroft, Vice-President of
United Shoe Machinery Corporation

Philip Stockton, President of First Na-
tional Bank of Boston

Foreign Corresponding Representatives

George B. Duff .................... Australia

Luis Pareja Cornejo ............... Ecuador

Charles A. Williams ............... France

Leonard T. Hawksley .............. Italy

Mrs. Mary P. E. Nitobe ........... Japan

Mrs. Marie C. S. Houghton ........ Madeira

Dr. A. T. Ishkanian ............... Mexico

Luther Parker .................... Philippine Islands
Joaquin. Julia ..................... Spain

Rida Himadi ...................... Lebanon and Syria
Mrs. Alice W. Manning ........... Turkey

Humane Press Bureau
Address, 180 Longwood Ave., Boston

Mar. 1988

Field Workers of the Society

Mrs. Alice L. Park, Palo Alto, California
Mrs. Rachel C. Hogue, San Diego, California
Mrs. Jennie R. Nichols, Tacoma, Washington
James D. Burton, Harriman, Tennessee

Mrs. Katherine W-eathersbee, Atlanta, Georgia
Rev. F. Rivers Barnwell, Fort Worth, Texas
Miss Blanche Finley, Richmond, Virginia
Rev. John W. Lemon, Ark, Virginia

Miss Lucia F. Gilbert, Boston, Massachusetts
Mrs. Jennie R. Toomim, Chicago, Ill.
Seymour Carroll, Columbia, S. C.

Field Representative
Wm. F. H. Wentzel, M.S., Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

Field Lecturer in Massachusetts
Ella A. Maryott

Honorary Members
William B. Allison, Los Angeles, California

Mrs. Julia M. Baldwin, Chicago, Ill.

Mrs. Wilson Groshans, Aurora, I11.

Miss Louise de St. Hubert Guyol, New Or-
leans, La.

Miss Mary Harrold, Washington, D. C.

Mrs. Marion E. Fraser, Chicago, Ill.

Mrs. Charlotte L. Hunt, Chicago, Ill.

Mrs. Alice W. Manning, Istanbul, Turkey

Dr. Carlos Monteverde, Guayaquil, Ecua-
dor

Mrs. Edith L. Smith, New York, N. Y.

M. Roger des Varennes, Paris, France

George Arliss, New York, N. Y.

Mrs. George Arliss, New York, N. Y.

Louis Pareja Cornejo, Quito, Ecuador

Mrs. A. D. McDaniel, South Tacoma, Wash.

Ex-Governor A. V. Donahey, Columbus,
Ohio

Active Life Members

Alstrom, Mrs. Dorothy D. Lewis, Mrs. F. E. H.
Baber, Miss Zonia Mahoney, Rev. Martin
Ballard, Dellworth Manning, Mrs. Alice W.
Barnard, Harry Marsh, A. M.
Brennemann, Mrs. Joseph Mitchell, Miss Mary
Champlin, Mme. A. de Ramson, John E.
Crocker, Mrs. Caroline B. Rogers, Albert R.

Dodge, Mrs. Lela G. Schaaf, Kenneth A.
Eddy, Miss Sarah J. Smith, Oliver

Fay, Miss Sarah B. Stokes, Miss O. E. Phelps
Fisher, H. Traver, Mrs. L.

Glenn, Miss Carrie Tucker, Nathan, M.D.
Haile, Mrs. Wm. H. Upham, Miss E. Annie
Hardy, Mrs. Richard Vanderbilt, Mrs. F. W.
Harris, Mrs. Amy E. Van Rensselaer, C. S., Jr.
Kendall, Miss Georgiana Whitney, Mrs. Geoffrey G.
Kidder, Nathaniel T. Will, Mrs. Edwin R.
Kilgore, John D. Williams, Miss Nellie C.

Associate Life Members

Babcock, Miss Edith Meyer, Miss Heloise
Barnwell, Almon Angell Newcomb, Miss Adelaide
Cabot, Mrs. Susan W.

Curtis, Atherton Parker, Miss E. S.
Freshel, Mrs. Curt P. Stone, Miss Esther A.
Gray, Miss Ellen Todd, Mrs. Albert
Larkin, John D. ‘Weeks, Edwin R.
Marshall, Mrs. Sallie G.

Annuity Bonds

Many men and women, lovers of animals,
are getting both happiness and material
comfort from our two Societies’ Annuity
Bonds. These bonds are absolutely safe.
They pay from 4 to 8%—according to your
age. Send the coupon for a free folder
which gives full details. Fill in the coupon
and mail it now.

The Massachusetts S. P. C. A. (or)
The American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Ave., Boston, Mass.

Without obligation to me, please send
me your folder which tells all about your

‘ Annuity Bonds.

Name ....................... Age ......
Address ................................

 




 

D u U.S.Trade Mark.Begiste,.ed( \
ELL N 1868 0N
30. T. ANG E YEAR

 

Entered as second-class matter, June 29, 1917, at the Post Ofﬁce at Noriwood, Mass.
Acceptance for mailing at special rate of posta

‘Vol 66

The use of steel traps on the Royal Es-
tates is forbidden by order of His Majesty
the King of England.

It is said that George Arliss is so opposed
to the ill-treatment of animals that he will
not allow them to be used in any of his
pictures. Being a member of so many hu-
mane societies, how can he?

The beautiful California city of San
Diego through its Humane Society is plan-
ning for one of the ﬁnest sets of humane
buildings, it is said, in the country. The
new building dedicated February, this year,
is the ﬁrst of several to be erected over a
seven-year period.

What has the depression meant to the
dogs? For many of them an untimely end.
So far as our Angell Memorial Animal Hos-
pital is concerned, from 15 to 25 per cent
more lost and stray dogs have been received
by us than formerly and about the same
percentage given up by people no longer
able to keep them.

This has not been a happy winter for
many of our good friends in England. Not
only has inﬂuenza come into nearly every
home, in certain sections, at least, but
added to it has been the prevalence of the
dreaded foot and mouth disease which has
attacked the cattle. One friend writes us:
“My cows are in quarantine, must be kept
tied in their stalls, and are not allowed
even to cross the road to their pasture.”

The barbarians of the gun clubs of the
Riviera who ﬁnd it sport to shoot live pig-
eons from traps might learn something from
the new Bombay Gun Club, India, organized
to encourage the use of clay pigeons. The
Riviera has well deserved the reproach of
being called the “Hell for Pigeons.”

If all foreign visitors to this small realm
of sunshine and ﬂowers would protest to
the authorities, it might shame them into
stopping this barbarism.

 

The Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

The American Humane Education Society

The American Band of Mercy

I would not enter on my list of friends,
Though graced with polished manners and ﬁne sense,
Yet wanting sensibility, the man i ’
Who needlessly sets foot upon a worm.

——COWPER

Dday,l933
Say It Again

HT should be said again and again, and
yet again, that whatever humane societies
have done for animals they have done vastly
more for men, women and children. Seldom
does this fact get public recognition. The
people back of humane work, it is taken
for granted, have their interest centered
Wholly in animals. To relieve them from
suffering, to protect them from cruelty,
What beyond that can be their interest?
And then, with so many causes that con-
cern themselves with human needs, how
can intelligent and sane people turn from
those causes to the welfare of animals?
Surely they must be lacking in a knowledge
of life’s real values or something is lacking
in their mental make-up. .

But how shall we justify the assertion
that after all humane societies have made
a large contribution to the world’s civiliza-
tion? Whence have come the inﬂuences
that have changed the lot of untold millions
of animals? What has made the difference
between the lot of animals in lands like
ours and lands Where life has been for
them one long hell of pain and torture?
Organized humane societies is the answer
to both these questions.

And how has the inﬂuence of these so-
cieties accomplished these ends? By awak—
ing indifferent, thoughtless men and women
and children to the claims upon them of
these lowlier fellow creatures for fair play
and compassion. Can any thoughtful man,
if he will think of it, fail to see that every
human soul awakened to do a deed of jus-
tice and kindness to the least of those who
can suffer is not by that very act ennobled,
uplifted, made a better neighbor, friend,
citizen? Kindness! Is there any virtue that
with clearer voice proclaims man’s kinship
with the Eternal? Who will ever measure
the meaning to the millions of children in
whose hearts the American Humane Educa-
tion Society alone has kindled and fostered
this grace of kindness—a service to their
country wider and more enduring than the
service the children may ever render to
suffering animals, great as that may be.

3

   
    

GLORY TO
GOD,
PEACE ON EARTH,
Kmousss, JUSTICE
AND MERCY TO“
EVERY LIVING
CREATURE.

    
    
     

, Norwood,

, under the Act of March 3, 1879
ge provided for in section 1103, Act of October 3, 1917, authorized, July 13, 1919

Mass.

, lﬂo.5

Perhaps some day the truth of What we
have been saying will dawn upon the world,
and men will recognize what humane edu-
cation has done toward setting over against
those foes of humanity that separate and
divide men and nations those virtues that
make for peace on earth and good will
toward men.

Students and War Service

THE University of Maryland, through
its Board of Regents, has declared its
purpose to deny re-entrance to two of its
students who refuse to submit, for consci-
entious reasons, to military training. This
action was taken despite the decision of
Judge Ulman of the Baltimore Superior
Court that, in a tax-supported institution,
the two students were entitled to attend
without submitting to this requirement. We
are sorry to learn that the University Board
intends to carry the decision to a higher
court. We admire the young men and Judge
Ulman—as for the University, we doubt not
the militarists will commend it.

Now word comes from England that by
a vote of 275 to 153 the Oxford Union, a
famous students’ organization, Voted “that
in no circumstances will this house ﬁght
for its King and country.” Soon after this
vote of the Oxford Union came the Union
of Manchester University of 371 to 196 in
favor of the same declaration. A later re-
port from Oxford says that “in a tumultu-
ous meeting the Union rejected by a vote
of 753 to 138 a motion to expunge from
the records the previous motion declaring
that ‘this house will under no circum-
stances ﬁght for King and country.’ ”

Whatever one’s views of such an atti-
tude toward war, it is evident that if
enough citizens of the various nations take
this stand international quarrels will be
settled by other means than those of war.
Many there are in this country who have
taken this same attitude as to war. Many
more have said that nothing but a war in
defense of their homeland would lead them
to take up arms. If war must be, then let
those who make it do the ﬁghting.

 




 

 

 

HUMANE LIBRARY FOR $1.00

The new bound volume of OUR DUMB
ANIMALS, including the twelve numbers for
1932, is now ready. There are 192 pp. 1n all,
about 150 illustrations. Attractively bound 1n
red cloth. Price this season, only $1.00, post-
paid to any address.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

180 Longwood Avenue, Boston

 

 

 

 

 

 

L’ENVOI

A PAPER OF QUALITY
FOR BUSINESS STATIONERY

Send for Sample
ARTHUR E. HAM & SONS, 10 High St., Boston

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
    
 

For Baby’s Tender Skin
Cuticura Talcum

Medicated and pure, it prevents chaf-
ing and assures Baby’s comfort.

Price 25c. Sample free.
Address: "Cuticura,” Dept. 11K,Malden, Mass.

 

 

 

 

Established 1868

JAMES FORGIE’S SONS
17 Merchants Row
Boston, Mass.
HARNESS.

ENGLISH SADDLERY, AND
EVERYTHING FOR THE HORSE

 

 

 

 

 

A FEW COPIES REMAIN OF
THE HUMANE CALENDAR
FOR 1933

Colored picture, “Peace and Plenty.”
(Or, if wanted, George Washington
on his horse at Mt. Vernon, or, “Home,
Sweet Home,” or black and white pic-
ture of dog, cat and child.)

Mr. John B. Greer of the Newport
Daily News, NeWport, R. I., in send-
ing a third order for our humane cal-
endars this year, said that he found
both children and grown-ups eager to
receive them.

The leaves of the pad, one for each
month, contain the usual valuable hu-

- mane hints on the care of animals and
are especially adapted to use in
Schools.

Price: 20 cents per Single copy,
two for 35 cents; $1.80 per dozen,
post-paid to any address.

The Calendar will be mailed prompt-

ly upon receipt of order.
Address

American Humane Education Society

180;Longwood Avenue Boston, Mass.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Since 1 832

J. S. WATERMAN & SONS, INC.

@nhettakers

BOSTON—BROOKLINE—CAMBRIDGE
City and Out-of-Town Service

 

 

 

 

 

 

performance.”

in the country.

 

 

THE BELL OF ATRI

Margaret N. McCarthy, teacher of the Grafton Street
Junior High School, Worcester, Mass, writes, December 9,
1932: “ ‘The Bell of Atri’ and the play, ‘The Trial of the
Birds,’ made a very strong and favorable impression upon
the minds of the hundreds of pupils who witnessed the

One print of this ﬁlm is in constant use in the Boston
city schools. The ﬁlm should be exhibited in every school

AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

 

 

 

 

Humane literature and Band of Mercy Supplies

For sale by the American Humane Education Society and the Massachusetts S. P. C. A.,
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass, at these prices, postpaid.

Titles in bold-face type are of books or booklets

Humane Calendar for 1933, each 20

cts., two for 35 cts. ............. $1.80 per dozen
Be Kind to Animals Poster, 17 x 22

inches, one for 10 cts., six for 50 cts.,

or 16 ........................... $1.00
Our Dumb Animals, 1932, bound volume $1.00
Our Dumb Animals, January to Decem-

ber, 1931, 1929 and 1930, bound in

cloth, special, each ............... .75
Colored Posters, 17 x 28 inches, with

attractive pictures and verses, six in

the set ......................... $1.00
Be Kind to Animals Blotters, 6%; x 3%. $0.50 per 100

About the Horse

Black Beauty (English), cloth, 45 cents ; paper, 20 cts.
The Shame of It l—Mutilating the horse

by setting up his tail. Dr. Rowley’s

protest against this cruelty for fash-

ion’s sake. Five illus., 4 pp. ...... Free
'What Constitutes Cruelty, Francis H.

Rowley ......................... $0.30 per 100
Humane Horse Book, 32 pp., 5 cts.

each or ......................... 5.00 “ “
The Horse—Treatment of Sores, Dis-

eases, .etc. ....................... .60 “ “
Humane Education Leaﬂet No. 5 ..... .50 “ “
The Horse’s Prayer ................ .30 “ “

The Bell of Atri, poem by Longfellow .50 “ “

The Care of Mules ................. 50 “ “
About the Dog

Beautiful Joe, new, illus., $1.50 ..... small, 50 cts.

Distemper in Dogs, Dr. Schneider ...... Free

Rabies vs. Running Fits, Dr. Schneider . Free

Eulogy on the Dog, by Vest, post-card .$1.00 per 100
The Dog—Its Care in Health and Disease .60 “ “
Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 3 and 4 .50 “ “
What the Chained Dog Says ........... .50 “ “
The Story of Barry ....................

About the Bird

The Lady of the Robins ............. cloth, 35 cts.
Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 1 and 2 $0.50 per 100
How the Birds Help the Farmer ....... .50 “ “
The Air-gun and the Birds ............ .50 “ “
The Trial of the Birds, play ........... each, 2 cts.

About the Cat
The Cat—Its Care in Health and Dis-

ease ................................. $0.60 per 100
A Letter to Owners of Cats ............ .30 “ “
The Cat in Literature ................. .50 “ “
Do Not Leave Your Cat to Starve ...... .50 “ “

“The Beggar Cat,” post-card, 6 cts. per
doz.

About Other Animals

Prince Rudolf’s Quest, Kenniston, 150

pp., Special .................... boards, 50 cts.
The Strike at Shane’s, cloth, 30 cts. ..paper, 7 cts.
Michael Brother of Jerry, Jack London, cloth, 75 cts.
Jack London Club Poster, 22 x 32 inches

one for 15 cts., two for 25 cts., ﬁve or

.more . ............................... each, 10 cts.
Flrst A1d to Animals, Dr. Schneider, .

8 pp: ................................ $1.00 per 100
What IS the Jack London Club? ........ .30 “ “
Foreword from "‘Michael Brother of Jerry” .30 “ “
Gripped in the Teeth of Steel, 2 pp. .. 1.00 “ “

About Other Animals—.—Continued

How to Kill Animals Humanely, 4 pp. .$1.00 per 100
Humane Education Leaﬂet, No. 6, Ani-

mals ................................ .50 “ “
Humane Education Leaﬂet, No. 7, Farm

Animals ............................. .50 per 100
Ways of Kindness ..................... .50 per 100
Why the Toad is so Useful ............. .30 “ “
“Empty Tin Cans,” card ............... Free

Humane Education

The Humane Bulletin, for use in schools,

96 pp. .................. 12 cents each ; ten for $1.00
Care and Kindness for Our Animal

Friends, 29 pp., paper covers, many

illus. ............. 15 cents each; seven for $1.00
Kindness Picture Book, 32 pp.

15 cents each; seven for $1.00

The Teacher’s Helper in Humane Edu-

cation, 32 pp. ..................
Humane Education—for Parents and

Teachers, 20 pp. ................. each, 10 cts.
Picture Lesson Cards, each, 10 cts., set

each, 10 cts.

of eight ......................... 35 cts.
“Be Kind to Animals” Pennants ...... each, 25 cts.
“Be Kind to Animals” Placards ...... each, 3 cts.
The Humane Idea, Dr. Francis H.

Rowley ............... cloth, 35 cts.; paper, 15 cts.

Friends and Helpers (selections for
school use), Sarah J. Eddy ....... cloth, 96 cts.
Animals as Seen by the Poets, Guy
Richardson, 32 pp. ..... cloth, 35 cts.; paper, 10 cts.
Address to Boston Public Schools ...... $2.00 per 100
Lessons on Kindness to Animals ........ . “ “
Fred Changes His Mind, play, 5 cts. each ; six for 25 cts.
“And a Little Child Shall Lead Them,”
play ..................... 3 cts. each ; six for 15 cts.
Friends of Fur and Feather, play, . . .
3 cts. each ; ten for 25 cts.
Humane Day in Schools, with class-room
project, 8 pp. ....................... $2.00 per 100
Humane Exercises 2.00 “ “
Our Little Brothers and Sisters, sermon
for boys and girls, by Dr. Jefferson,

pp. .............................. .50 “ “
Humane Education, What to Teach and

How to Teach It .................... .50 “ “
Early Lessons in Kindness or Cruelty .50 “ “
Outlines of Study in Humane Education,

8 pp. ............................... 1.50 “ “
A Talk with the Teacher ............... .50 “ “
The Coming Education ................ .30 “ “
A Festival of Tender Mereies .......... .50 “ “
A Great Prophecy, Dr. Rowley ........ Free

Band of Mercy

“Be Kind to Animals” Buttons, three
styles——Band of Mercy, Humane So-
ciety, or S. P. C. A.

Buttons—white star on blue ground with
gilt letters and border, one cent each . 1.00 “ “

Badges, gold ﬁnish, large, 10 cts. ..

“Band of Mercy” Pennant ..............

Songs of Happy Life, with Music, S.

J. Edd ......................

Songs of Happy Life (56 pages, words
only)

Band of Mercy Membership Card .......

How to Form Bands of Mercy .......... .50 “ “

Does it Pay, story of one Band of Mercy .30 “ "

Please enclose remittance with orders for less than $1

AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY, 180 Longwood Ave., Boston, Mass.

.................. $1.00 per 100
. small, 5 cts.
35 cts.
50 cts.
............................... $3.00 per 100
.50 “ “

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 86

Proper Toys for Children

HE Pasadena Disarmament Council has
forwarded to the toy merchants of that
city the following letter :—

Dear Friends:

We, the undersigned, representing many
church and civic organizations of Pasa-
dena, hereby respectfully seek your co-
operation in the matter of proper toys for
children.

-We agree with the great authority on
child training, Angelo Patri, that the sym-
bols of war should be omitted from the
playthings of childhood, because we feel
that they do not foster a mental attitude
consistent with the peaceful solution of
differences which our government is advo-
cating, and because such toys in them-
selves are, more or less, deﬁnitely dan-
gerous.

We hold that tin soldiers, toy pistols,
guns, swords and cannon give the child a
false idea of war as it is today; that they
make him think of war as a game; and
that they lead him to imagine himself a
hero of destruction instead of construction.

We realize that many parents are
thoughtless in their selection of toys and
that the children are utterly helpless.
Therefore, we appeal to you to reduce your
future orders for military toys and to make
a special feature of displaying at holiday
times the many constructive toys which can
be used with safety intraining for the
highest type of citizenship.

Canada’s Bird Protector

During the recent discussion of a bill to
amend the Migratory Birds Convention
Act, Eccles J. Gott, M. P., representing
South Essex, said: “Jack Miner does more
than all the game wardens in Canada to
preserve the wild life of the Dominion.

“If there were a few more game con-
servationists throughout Canada of the
kind that is to be found in my riding, you
could dispense with all your Royal Canadian
Mounted Police ofﬁcers and all your game
wardens.

“It is in the county which I have the
honor to represent that Jack Miner has
established his bird sanctuary and I chal-
lenge all representatives in this House to
show that all your game wardens, Mounted
Police ofﬁcers or anybody else can protect
more birds than Jack Miner does in his
sanctuary.”

Education in Cruelty

Something to be killed is the idea sug-
gested to a child by a toy gun. A small
child may use a toy gun without hitting
anything—true; but though he may not
hurt anything else, he hurts himself. By
the wish to kill, the gun teaches him cruelty.

By-and-by, the cruel plaything will be
exchanged for the death-dealing riﬂe, and
when he is old enough, his chief delight
will be in the cowardly wholesale slaughter
called “sport.”

Few fathers and mothers would hand
their son a knife wherewith to wound or
slay some harmless living thing in his
hands, yet they give him a gun wherewith
to wound or kill at a distance—out of
sight, out of mind.

GERALDINE LYSTER

difﬁcult to get in Greece.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

A Life Insurance Policy
for the Society

N these trying days of failing invest-

ment and shrinking estates there are
those who, wishing ultimately to do some-
thing for some cause in which they are
interested, have taken out an insurance
policy for its beneﬁt. This means that one
may have a six to twelve per cent guar-
anteed income for life, and after his own
income has been placed on a rock-bound
basis for as long as he will need it, he
may have the privilege of bequeathing it
to the organization he would like to have it.

It may be you may be one of the fortu-
nate ones whose income has not suffered,
but are looking into the future with cau-
tion, and, because of possible uncertainties,
hesitate to set aside in your will the cher-
ished bequests for your favorite interests.
Fortunately, a way is open to carry out
your wishes, with a small annual deposit
of about three per cent to safeguard your
plans.

If any reader would like further infor-
mation with regard to this, we shall be
glad to furnish it.

More Humane Education

Athens College, Athens, Greece
March 29, 1933
American Humane Education Society
Boston, Mass.

Dear Friends: You may be interested
to know that our Society is now mak-
ing a special eﬁort to introduce humane
education in all our
schools. It is gratifying to
have the oﬂicial support
of the Minister of Educa-
tion who has recently ad-
dressed to all the Greek
schools a circular letter,
requesting every school
director and teacher
“never to miss an oppor-
tunity, whether in class
or on an excursion, to
stimulate interest and
love to animals in every
s t u d e n t, showing how
much the animals have
contributed to our ma-
terial, intellectual and
moral progress.”

Please put my name on
your mailing list, and
keep me in touch with
what is going on in other
parts of the world. I need
material for our little
magazine which is very

Yours sincere-1y,
CHARILAOS LAGOUDAKIS,
Editor

 

June, 1933

Seventeen Million Boys and

Girls

HE words of Judge Lewis L. Fawcett,

Justice of the Supreme Court of the
State of New York, are worth one’s seri-
ous thought concerning the value of hu-
mane education. Judge Fawcett writes,
“The problem of youth is the problem of
humanity. There are over 17,000,000 boys
and girls in this country growing up with-
out moral training from any source, Pro—
testant, Catholic or Jewish. Out of over
4,000 boys under 21 convicted of crime
before me, only three were members of a
Sunday-school.”

But the majority of these boys and girls
are for greater or less periods in the pub-
lic schools and there they can be reached.
There our American Humane Education
Society has been for forty—four years us-
ing every means in its power through hu-
mane workers and through its literature
and various other methods, such as poster
contests, to reach the pupils in these
schools and awaken in them and foster
those moral principles of justice and com-
passion toward all life, human and sub-
human, without which there can be no citi-
zenship upon which an enduring govern-
ment can be built. To have reached
through its organized Bands of Mercy
alone over 5,000,000 youth—who will esti-
mate what that has meant to this land of
ours?

“Blessed are the merciful.”

\~.\~.~‘\V\\\‘-.\& \ - “xx \

Mother Cat and Adopted Puppies

ESTOWING all the attention and affection of the best

of mothers, this cat has recently reared a little brood
of handsome Scotch terrier puppies successfully on the road
to maturity. The puppies were born at the Angel] Animal
Hospital early in April. They survived the operation under
which their real mother succumbed. They owe their lives.
principally to their devoted, feline foster-mother who, hav-
ing had to part with her own offspring, readily adopted them

and nursed and cuddled them with tenderest care.

To the above institu-
tion and also to the Ameri-
can College for Girls,
literature has been sent
by the American Humane
Education Society for
which grateful acknowl-
edgement has been re-

ceived. graph.

The little puppies made excellent progress; more than a
hundred calls were received at the Hospital enquiring about
them. They were taken to the home of their owner in about.
three weeks and their good mother went With them for as
long as they need her fostering care, after which time-
she will be returned to make her permanent home at the
Angel] Hospital.

We are indebted to the Boston Post for the above photo-

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

July, 1933

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

 

conscious of the harm in injuring or kill-
ing unnecessarily, will readily refrain.
Others need more patient treatment. Cer-
tainly in the schools every effort is being
made to teach true kindness. One of the
ﬁrst essentials is to show that kindness is
really an evidence of strength rather than
weakness, courage rather than cowardice.

Then, too, kindness to animals can be
taught, and exempliﬁed in our own con-
duct, that we who are parents and coun-
selors may show by example as well as pre-
cept our true acceptance of it as an active
principle of life.

One of the beautiful pictures of the con—
summation of the Kingdom of Christ por-
trays the little child leading in peaceful
procession the wild beasts of the jungle
with the domesticated animals, and recalls
this prophecy of old: “And the wolf shall
dwell with the lamb, and the leopard shall
lie down with the kid; and the calf and
the young lion and the fatling together; and
a little child shall lead them. And the cow
and the bear shall feed, their young shall
lie down together . . . They shall not hurt
nor destroy—for the earth shall be full of
the knowledge of the Lord as the waters
cove-r the sea.” And to know the Lord is
to know love.

Beetles the world over are living jewels
of color and decoration, rivaling the colors
of the rainbow, clad in royal armor rich in
brilliant iridescence, and many of them are
often within the reach of our eyes.

They’d Moved Away

MRS. HARRY LEVICK

He stood alone beside the gate.

How long, he wondered, must he wait?
A little dog, forlorn and sad

Beside the home that once he’d had.
They’d moved away and left him here;
He’d loved them so, it did seem queer.
He’d tried to run and follow them

But they had gone too fast for him.

He wished he had a bone to chew—
That always helps when one is blue.
T’was getting cold and very dark——
Perhaps they’d hear him if he’d bark!
He waited all that livelong day.

They never came—they’d—moved—away!

Pets of the Great
CARL SCHURZ LOWDEN

HE Russian novelist and social re‘

former, Count Leo Tolstoy, was a kind
man who never used a whip upon his horses.
They were pets, and he would not abuse
them. One day he drove out with a journal-
ist who saw the author’s empty whip hand
and then made some ﬂippant remark about
it. “I talk to my horses,” the Count an-
swered. “I do not beat them.”

At a birthday celebration in honor of the
poet Whittier a woman sang “Robin Adair.”
As soon as she uttered the ﬁrst few words
the poet’s dog moved over beside her. When
she had ﬁnished the ballad the dog put one
of his paws gently upon her hand.

“Robin takes the song as a tribute to
himself,” Whittier quickly explained. “You
see his own name is ‘Robin Adair.’ ”

The author of “Maud Muller” and other
favorite poems loved his dog quite genu-
inely; the dog loved him truly in return. Be-
tween the kind Quaker and his four-legged
pet there existed an easy sort of under-
standing that seemed almost human at
times.

A similar comradeship marked the romp-
ing of genial Warren G. Harding with the
coal-black Newfoundland dog which was
his favorite pet and playfellow. This Presi-
dent would neither hunt nor ﬁsh. A friend
once asked him why. He declared that both
sports entailed a certain amount of injuries
and cruelties to animals, and he did not
like to kill.

Verdi, the composer of the opera, “Il Tro-
vatore,” spent many happy hours every day
with his animal friends. He esteemed the
noteworthy faithfulness and utter lack of
deception or pretense of his watchdogs
“Gemma” and “Top.” Did they inspire him
in some subtle way? Perhaps!

Because they gave him what he termed
“electric shocks” Sir David Brewster long

disliked animals. However, as the English

astronomer busied himself at his writing
table one afternoon a cat bravely hopped
upon his knee. This time he felt no shock
but, instead, a distinct pleasure. Thereaf-
ter the eminent scientist would not allow
anyone but himself to feed his audacious ac-
quaintance.

WSW- ,,e._..__.~_._.._.--r_.__.._r___.~.~: ___ , .

Page 109

Dr. Samuel Johnson, father of the dic-
tionary in England, owned a pet cat which
he christened with the plain name of
“Hodge.” Like his rotund master he was a
bit overweight. One day he became sick
and would not eat his usual diet. The au-
thor worried about his furry friend until
he noticed him endeavoring to retrieve an
oyster that the cook had discarded. The
learned man took this as a cue for the cat’s
restoration to health. Each day Johnson
brought home a ration of oysters to make
“Hodge” well. The plan proved to- be a
great success.

As he painted his canvases in oil the fa-
mous Swiss artist, Gottfried Mind, habit-
ually surounded himself with a motley group
of toms and tabbies. He liked their compan-
ionship; he felt he could do better work
among them. As he also frequently used
his feline friends as subjects he became
known as the “Raphael of Cats.”

The three favorite pets of the poet Cow-
per were a spaniel, a hare and a cat. Ra-
ther a strange assortment. The happy days
that dotted Cowper’s gloomy life seemed to
emerge out of his companionship with the
trio of four-footed friends.

It is said that Edgar Allan Poe often per-
mitted his favorite cat to sleep with him.
Edmund Clarence Stedman would have his
pet cat sit in a chair at the table every day
for dinner. Another poet and essayist,
Thomas Wentworth Higginson, possessed
such an unusual power over wild birds that
he could easily tame them, and he did.

The horse has been a preferred friend of
mankind ever since the animal was domesti-
cated. For centuries he has been both a
work animal and a pet. The English ar-
tist, Rosa Bonheur, made a. name for her-
self through her “Horse Fair” and other
equine pictures. She petted all her riding
horses.

“Copenhagen” was the famous charger of
the Duke of Wellington who rode him on the
fateful plain at Waterloo when the almost
invincible Napoleon tasted bitter defeat.
About half a century later, on another con-
tinent, General Philip Sheridan made his
storied ride from Winchester, Virginia, to
Cedar Creek, “twenty miles away,” on the
back of his coal-black charger, “Rienzi.”

Probably the most celebrated of war-
horses was General Robert E. Lee’s “Trav-
eler.” The great commander described his
favorite mount as “Confederate gray” in
color. In some of the hard campaigns the
saddle was not removed fro-m the horse’s
back for days at a time. “Traveler” shied
during the second clash at Manassas, threw
the general and broke a bone in one of his
hands. This accident did not lessen Lee’s
affection for the horse which he had bought
from a major for two hundred dollars.

“Traveler” and his famous owner died
only a short time apart. In Lee’s funeral
procession the war horse carried crepe on
his bridle and empty saddle. He walked
slowly just behind the hearse and between
two soldiers. His head hung low, as if he
were grieving at the loss of his master. A
few weeks later “Traveler” somehow ac-
quired an infection in one of his feet, lock-
jaw developed, and he died.

The term “police dog” does not designate
breed, but on the contrary a form of special
activity, and consequently may be applied
to any breed of dog used in police work.

 

 




 

 

 

 

Page 20

Do Animals Enjoy Tricks?

L. E. EUBANKS

ECENTLY a lover of smoking showed

me how he had taught the family cat
to sit on its haunches and hold a burning
cigarette in its mouth. When I remonstrated,
he claimed that the animal enjoyed the per—
formance, especially sitting before a mir-
ror. He said that the cat actually grinned
at its ridiculous reﬂection.

But I observed that he had considerable
difﬁculty in putting the pet through its
stunt. To me, the animal’s every movement
revealed extreme repugnance. Many of these
people who force dumb animals to do un-
natural things deliberately “kid” themselves
into believing that the victims enjoy such
antics; either that or they have less than
average intelligence.

When animals are forced to do hazard-
ous things, it always angers me to hear
those responsible argue that there is really
no danger. A like condition among humans
is seen in teaching a boy to swim by carry—
ing him to deep water and turning him loose.
His friend, the expert swimmer, is near
him; but nine times out of ten the pupil suf—
fers the nth degree of terror before he stum-
bles upon the right movements to sustain
himself, or is rescued by the teacher.

The dumb animal has no such assurance
as the person who learns a dangerous stunt.
It cannot understand that such and such
provision guarantees its safety. The para-
chute-jumping dog is only one of many ex-
amples. Only after repeated experiences——
if ever—does the canine know What the
parachute will do. And if he knows that,
he may know also that the device can fail.

All of us are familiar with the saying,
“If you believe it, it’s so”—meaning that
the mental attitude, even falsely taken, is
more potent than the actual truth. Men
have been known to sicken and die solely
because they persistently believed themselves
ill, in spite of expert physicians’ assurance
that the ailment was only imaginary.

When a man jumps from a ﬁfth-story
window into the ﬁremen’s net, he has every
reason to believe in the net, but no man ever
jumped without a tremor of fearful doubt.
And the animal cannot reason with itself
on psychological lines, as the man can;
hasn’t even that encouragement, which
means that every could-be fatal experience
is a virtual death, as far as suffering is
concerned.

But the trainer argues that he knows the
thing is safe, and that is enough. The ani-
mal will be scared a bit but not really in-
jured, etc. In other words, the man is going
to think for the poor victim. If he can’t
“think for” one of his own species, as proved
in the swim-or-drown system, how can he
instill the necessary assurance of safety
into the dumb animal?

Men say that mental anguish is more ter-
rible than physical pain. And fear does not
pre-suppose intellect; any living creature
can know fear for its life. Like a human,

an animal “might as well be killed as scared
to death.”

 

Join the Jack London Club
The vicious and cruel exploitation of animals
can be boycotted from the public stage.

Send your name for enrolment to Our Dumb
Animals.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Feb. 1933

 

SMALL HERD OF ELK ON SUMMER RANGE

 

Twilight in the Plaza dc
Toros

Editorial in Christian Science Monitor.

ROM Spain comes a dispatch with the

information that “something has gone
wrong with the national sport”—bull-ﬁght-
ing. The season just ended showed a total
of only 215, performances, compared with
249 in 1931 and 302 in 1930.

A number of explanations for the de-
cline are forthcoming from the experts.
There’s the economic depression, of course;
there was only one fatality during the sea-
son, and that “insigniﬁcant”—an 18—year—
old apprentice; the Socialist Party has
waged a strong campaign against bull-ﬁght—
ing; the new agrarian law has broken up
many of the great estates where bulls were
bred for the eorrida de toros.

Such are the interpretations of the ex-
perts. But it is in the ﬁnal paragraph of
the dispatch, after the experts have done
with their pontiﬁcations, that there is dis—
closed, at least by implication, what one
suspects is the simple and gratifying ex-
planation of the whole matter.
that puzzlement is universal over the apathy
of the most devoted followers of bull-ﬁght-
ing. The great Chicuelo prepares for the,
kill with his old talent—but the crowd no
longer greets this spectacle with hysteria.
Hats and ﬂowers are not tossed into the
arena with the old-time enthusiasm nor in
such volume as of yore. And—perhaps most
inexplicable of all—the great matadors walk
these days through the streets of Madrid
with not a single youngster trailing them
in awe and worship. This is the everwhelm-
ing ignominy.

Can it be that bull-ﬁghting is on the wane
not because of the reasons advanced by the
experts, but preponderantly because, quite
simply, its fans are passing beyond its
shocking crudities and cruelties?

The Tibetan yak is not only a reliable
beast of burden and a provider of food,
but his tail is used as a ceremonial ﬂy-switch

and is often represented in Indian sculp-
tures.

Beavers are equipped with oil glands on
each side of the body and with toenail combs
on their hind feet, and they are constantly
preening and primping when not sleeping,
eating, playing or working.

It appears ‘

Elk and Their Haunts

W. S. LONG

HE two largest species of deer to be

found on the American continent are
the moose and the elk. These animals were
once extremely common, the elk especially
being found almost throughout the United
States. It originally was found from Peace
River, Canada, to New Mexico, and from
the Eastern States to the Paciﬁc coast, but
is now almost entirely conﬁned to Wyoming,
except in places where it has been re-
introduced.

After the moose the elk is the largest
deer in North America, the bulls weighing
up to eight hundred pounds. It carries very
large antlers, but instead of being broad
and ﬂat, like the moose, they are round,
like other deer. They are most nearly re-
lated to the European stag.

The elk spends the summers in the cool
open forests on the mountain slopes, where
the cows can raise their calves in security
and the bulls let their antlers grow. In
winter they go down into the valleys. Elk
formerly occupied all kinds of habitats, but
are now found only in the higher moun-
tains. Their general habits are much like
the moose, but not quite so aquatic. As with
the moose, ﬁerce combats among the males
are common in the fall. Elk are very poly-
gamous, each bull gathering a small herd
of cows for his own.

Although strictly prohibited by law,
many elk are killed each year for their
canine teeth, which are made into lodge
emblems.

The near extermination of this beautiful
animal is another blot against the record of
the American people. The-re are probably
thirty or forty thousand elk alive in the
United States today, against the millions a
hundred years ago. They thrive well in
captivity, and are being introduced in many
of their old haunts where they have been
extinct for ﬁfty years or more. If given
protection from hunters, they thrive and in
some places, as in Pennsylvania, have be-
come very common.

Nature, who has been teaching school
for millions of years, is a very patient
teacher, yet not indulgent, with a rod of dis-
cipline which is tooth, claw, hunger, cold,
drought, and ﬂood, with the penalty us~
ually death.

 




 

 

 

 

   
  
   
     
   
   
   
  
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 88

Our Dumb Animals

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston ofﬁce; 180 Longwood Av-
enue, Boston, Mass., to which all communications

should be addressed.

Dr. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON, Editor
WILLIAM M. MORRILL, Assistant

 

JUNE, 1933

 

 

FOR TERMS, see back cover.

AGENTS to take orders for Our Dumb Animals are
wanted everywhere. Liberal commissions are offered.

EDITORS of all periodicals who receive this pub-
lication this month are invited to reprint any of the
articles with or without credit.

MANUSCRIPTS relating to animals, particularly
prose articles of about three hundred words, are solic-
ited. We do not wish to consider prose manuscripts
longer than 800 words, nor verse in excess of thirty-
Iix lines. The shorter the better. All manuscripts
Ihould be typewritten and an addressed envelope with
full return postage enclosed with each offering.

 

 

Our Taunton Branch

OR several years the Animal Welfare
Workers of Taunton, a group of
women deeply interested in humane work,
have been devoting themselves to the pro—
tection and care of stray, injured and ill—
treated animals in Taunton and Vicinity.
Loyally, unselﬁshly and without recom-
pense, under the enthusiastic presidency of
Mrs. Howard F. Woodward, they have ren-
dered a splendid service to our common
cause. Working in co-operation with a
veterinarian who had a small hospital and
shelter they have rescued hundreds of
small animals from suffering, found homes
for many of them and through the vet-
erinarian, now deceased, answered such
complaints of cruelty as have come to them.
These difﬁcult ﬁnancial times have so
threatened to curtail their activities that
to maintain a live and active organization
in the city it has seemed wise for our
Society to join forces with them and pro-
vide such part of the funds for the work
as they may be unable to raise. A new
veterinarian has been secured who has
rented the hospital and shelter of the
former one and will serve as his predeces-
sor did. The Animal Welfare Workers of
Taunton have, therefore, gladly become
afﬁliated with our Society to carry on
under our direction and the organization
will henceforth be known as the Taunton
Branch of the Massachusetts Society for
the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

A Students’ Movement

HE college student movement against

bearing arms in case of another war is
gaining great momentum. In Great Britain
students of the universities of Oxford,
Manchester, Leicester, Glasgow and Wales
are going on record as determined to re-
fuse to heed the call to arms, and in this
country students in our colleges and uni—
versities are rapidly being canvassed for
their attitude toward service in another
possible war. The young men of the na-
tions who might ordinarily be considered
good “cannon fodder” will probably have
something to say about that next war. A
government contemplating declaring war,
and aware that a great body of its citi-
zens might refuse to back it up, would
probably ﬁnd a much more sensible way
than by war of settling its quarrel with its
neighbor.

After reading the above one may be in—
terested also to read that a plan has been
laid before the President by the Navy De-
partment to spend the sum of $230,000,000
to build up the Navy. Perhaps the day
has come when our militaristic friends will
have less to say about these matters.

A Hero of Pompeii

The London Daily Herald of February
21, this year, publishes the following touch-
ing story which we take from The Animals’
Friend:

A while ago some explorers were dig—
ging out a part of Pompeii, that city which,
many centuries ago, was suddenly de-
stroyed by an eruption of Vesuvius.

Outside a house they found the body of
a small boy looking almost as if he had
fallen asleep. The little fellow had been
overtaken by the clouds of poison gas and
torrents of red-hot ashes from the volcano.

By the side of the boy was a big dog
with its teeth caught in its master’s cloak.
It looked as though the dog had made a
great effort to save the boy. Around the
dog’s neck was a big silver collar. The
metal was all tarnished, but when cleaned
it was seen to have this inscription in
Latin: “This dog has thrice saved the life of
his little master. Once from ﬁre, once
from water, and once from thieves.”

Even at this last hour, when destruction
poured down from the sky, it was plain that
the faithful animal had tried to save his
little master a fourth time.

June, 1933
N0 Dogs for Him

IS name is the Rev. William A.

Kitchen. His churchis known as the
Faith Tabernacle, Oklahoma City. His con-
gregation, deeply interested in a stray dog
that had ventured into the building, dis-
turbing the service, saw, so the report,
widely circulated through the press says,
the minister seize the dog and throw him
out of the tabernacle. The Rev. Mr.
Kitchen is quoted as saying, “I would
sooner see a dog killed than a service in-
terrupted. I am interested in saving men’s
souls, not degs.” One wonders how far a
man’s own soul is saved who has no com-
passion for a homeless dog. There is no
doubt that for centuries the pulpit’s avowed
effort to save souls from everlasting tor-
ment made any interest in the lot of un—
fortunate animals seem quite an insigniﬁ—
cant affair. Quite likely a God who could
torture human beings through all eternity
would have little interest in birds and
beasts. The God of the New Testament,
however, and of the Old as well, is por-
trayed as merciful and gracious, claiming
as his own the cattle on a thousand hills
and the winged creatures of the air even
to the little feathered waif men call a
sparrow.

A Friendly Farewell

From Premier MacDonald’s farewell
address to America we quote these signiﬁ—
cant words:

“May I venture to say this, that at this
moment and so far as one can see for many
and many a year to come, no greater bless—
ing can come upon the nations of this world
than that Great Britain and America should
remain in affectionate relationships.

“The one certain thing about a war is
that it makes another one equally certain
to itself. In all peace treaties that are im—
posed upon the vanquished, there is a se-
cret clause. Statesmen may say there is
not, but there is, although the statesmen
have never seen it. The secret clause is
the date of the next war. That is inevit-
able unless the nations of broad generous
mind, deep penetrating minds that see the
truth lying glittering away below the sur-
face, unless those nations use the oppor-
tunity of the military peace to create a
spiritual peace, and that is what we are
engaged in trying to do at the present
moment.”

.. ,_______‘__,..

 

   
  
   
 
  
  
    
 
  
  
 
  
   
   
  
   
 
  
 
  
   
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
   
   
  
   
  
   
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
   
  

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Pagel84
Our Dumb Animals

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston ofﬁce; 180 Longwood Av-
enue, Boston, Mass., to which all communications
should be addressed.

Dr. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON, Editor
WILLIAM M. MORRILL, Assistant

 

DECEMBER, 1933

 

FOR TERMS, see back cover.

AGENTS to take orders for Our Dumb Animals are
wanted everywhere. Liberal commissions are offered.

EDITORS of all periodicals who receive this pub-
lication this month are invited to reprint any of the
articles with or without credit.

MANUSCRIPTS relating to animals, particularly
prose articles of about three hundred words, are solic-
ited. We do not wish to consider prose manuscripts
longer than 800 words, nor verse in excess of thirty-
six lines. The shorter the better. All manuscripts
should be typewritten and an addressed envelope with
full return postage enclosed with each offering.

 

 

Rabies in Chicago and Boston

THE ﬁne Chicago Municipal Animal
Shelter, the building of which cam:
about chieﬂy through the determined and
persistent efforts of the group of women
constituting the Chicago Humane Education
Society, received during 1932 lost and un-
wanted dogs to the number of 24,753. Of
these there was only .237 of 1% affected
with rabies. That is, if we are right in our
ﬁgures, only 59 or 60 in that city of nearly
three millions. In Boston, with less than
800,000, 17 cases of rabies were reported to
the State Department during 1932. So far
this year 38 cases have been reported. These
last ﬁgures are far below those of two or
three years ago. The disease appears to be
coming steadily under control in Massa-
chusetts.

A letter comes to us from Washington,
D. C., which says that according to the rec-
ords of the District pound master of that
city between 5,000 and 6,000 dogs are an-
nually received at the pound, but that there
has been no case of rabies since 1931,
though many calls were received calling
attention to mad dogs. The letter also says
that whenever there is a suspicion of rabies
the heads of the dogs are examined by the
Bureau of Animal Industry.

There is abundant evidence that a large
number of cases thought to be rabies by the
general public are simply due to convulsions
or other physical ills. This is true doubt-
less in the majority of cases where a mad
dog scare occurs.

A Good Word for “Our

Dumb Animals”

The Superintendent of Schools in one of
our large cities, in a letter to his principals,
a copy of which has just been sent us, says:

“The Superintendent earnestly requests
each school to have in its school library the
publication known as Our Dumb Animals.
It is published by the American Humane
Education Society and the Massachusetts
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals.

“This paper contains a most interesting
story for children and will inculcate high
ideals in their lives. It ﬁts in with the-
program for this year that we should have
accurate and ﬁrst-hand knowledge of the
animal world.”

OUR" DUMB ANIMALS

Miss Georgiana Kendall
Died in New York City, October 8, 1933

0 one of the many friends of this de—

voted humanitarian will ever know
the total of those innumerable causes to
which she gave so generously of her time
and money. To humane education in this
and other lands she was constantly con—
tributing, carrying on an extensive cor-
respondence and sending generous supplies

-of literature. But her sympathies reached

out far beyond even this wide ﬁeld. On her
heart was the welfare of the prisoner in his
cell, the unhappy and unfortunate in nearly
every walk of life. Frail in body, those who
knew her best wondered at the strength she
found to write not only the letters her
correspondence demanded but the many
essays and pamphlets which came from her
facile pen.

Few more consistently have lived up to
their professed convictions. As a vegetarian
she held unchangingly to her determination
to keep to a meatless diet, though the crav-
ing for what she would not touch was often
strong. She said once to the writer of these
words, “I would walk a mile for a chicken’s
wing if my conscience would let me eat it.”
Her memory will long be cherished by those
many organizations and individuals who
shared her friendship and her beneﬁcences.

The Robin Called “Rowley”

A rather interesting story comes to us
from St. Paul. During a Grand Army par-
ade in that city an eight—months old robin
named “Rowley” sat on the end of its own-
er’s ﬁfe. The owner is Dr. J. W. Denadom,
91 years old. The bird had a perch on the
end of the ﬁfe. This ﬁfe the doctor played
when he marched with Sherman to the sea.
The robin was picked up by the doctor after
it had fallen from its nest. It is said it can
chirp a few bars of “The Girl I Left Be-
hind Me.”

The S. S. Kresge Company

We are glad to credit this well-known
company with its co-operation in humane
work. A sale of small fresh water turtles
taking place in their Boston stores, we
asked them if they would not issue a small
leaﬂet to go with each turtle, telling the
care necessary for the little creatures’ health
and comfort while subjected to their cap-
tivity. Here is the leaﬂet:

Information on the Care of Turtles

The turtles feed principally on lettuce,
little pieces of meat and pieces of banana
and ant eggs, and ﬁsh food that contains ant
eggs. They must be kept in an environment
where they will have water, and rock and
sand to get out on. They cannot be kept al-
together in water. If they are kept with
goldﬁsh, they will eat the ﬁns and eventu-
ally destroy the ﬁsh.

Not always have we found such co-opera-
tion. We trust the day will come when baby
chicks, chameleons and other tiny animals
will cease to be demanded as curiosities.
Away from their natural surroundings their
fate is generally a sad one.

Be Kind to Animals Week, April 16—21,
1933; Humane Sunday, April 15.

Dec. 1933
The Chicago Humane Edu-

cation Society

HE annual report of the above Society
T by its President, Mrs. Charlotte L.
Hunt, reveals a year of remarkably ﬁne
work accomplished. We are proud of this
Chicago Society which we have long regard-
ed as almost a branch, or at least a child, of
our American Humane Education Society.
Only those who have folloWed the activities
of this group of unpaid and devoted women
during the past years can appreciate what
they have done for their city. But for them
there would not be today in Chicago that
Municipal Animal Shelter, one of the ﬁnest
in the land, at the head of which is Captain
McCauley, a man so thoroughly a friend of
animals that the Shelter is carried on with
every regard for the comfort and well-being
of the animals. The two oﬂicers of the So-
ciety have been active in guarding against
cruelties at the rodeo during the summer
and in investigating many cases of the law’s
violation.

Nova Scotia’s New Bird
Sanctuary

A large bird sanctuary ideally situated in
the beautiful Annapolis Valley of Nova
Scotia is being developed within one hun-
dred miles of the winter home of tens of
thousands of wild Canada geese and ducks.
“Bird Haven” came into being early in 1930.
It owes its existence to John W. Piggott, a
young man of twenty—eight who plans to
spend a lifetime in the conservation of the
forests and wild life of his native Province.
Bird Haven is incorporated and will con-
tinue under public ownership with a board
of directors from three Eastern Canadian
Provinces, ‘with Jack Miner as honorary
president and the founder as managing di-
rector. It is being improved to make it a
beauty spot as well as attractive to birds.
Some of the largest trees in Nova Scotia
are found there, and it is the intention to
make it an arboretum with the most com-
plete collection of trees for the climate in
Eastern Canada. Wild geese, ducks and
many other birds are already ﬁnding the
sanctuary and are being admired by hun-
dreds of people from many parts of North
America. —Mass. Audubon Bulletin

We hope our readers, interested in hu-
mane slaughtering of our food animals and
also in stopping the cruel practice of setting
up the tails of horses, will send for our free
leaﬂets for distribution. Our Massachu-
setts readers particularly are urged to do
this, as we are seeking legislation to pre-
vent the showing of such horses in this
State.

More friends are needed to endow stalls
and new kennels in the Angel] Memorial
Animal Hospital. Payments of thirty-ﬁve
dollars for a kennel or seventy-ﬁve dollars
for a stall will insure a suitable marker
inscribed with donor’s name. Terms of per-
manent endowment of free stalls and ken-
nels will be given upon application to the
Massachusetts S. P. C. A., 180 Longwood

Avenue, Boston.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

l

 

Page 128

Is There Poison in Your

Food?

(Continued from page 121)

relatively high death-rates from degenera-
tive changes in the kidneys, blood vessels,
stomach, and other organs may be in part
caused by the use of irritating chemical
substances in food.

“American dried fruits are unpopular
abroad. To prevent discoloration of apri-
cots, pears and peaches, driers expose the
fruit to fumes of sulphur dioxide gas. To
this day there is no limit to the sulphur di-
oxide content of our dried fruits except,
curiously enough, in the fruit the Govern-
ment buys for the use of its own ofﬁcials and
employees, hospital and asylum patients,
soldiers, sailors, and veterans.

“White bread may be one of the most
dubious foods we eat, simply because we
eat so much of it. It is suspect on two
counts: ﬁrst, that with most yeast, in com-
mercial baking, there are used ‘yeast foods’
—-—potassium bromate and other chemicals.
Our ofﬁcials have never even investigated
these; but in France their use is banned.
Second, poisonous chemicals are used in
bleaching the ﬂour from which all but a
few American white breads are made. The
use of bleached ﬂour is so universal that it
is safe to assume its presence in all white
bread sold without special designation.

“In the manufacture of bakers’ pies,
breads and pastries, ingredients of such low
grade are employed that no housewife would
consider their use in her own kitchen. And
no baker or manufacturer is required to im-
part to his customers a. single word regard-
ing these ingredients! If every baker were
required to state all the facts on an at-
tached card, he would have to reorganize
his processes and formulae within a week.

“Of many fountain and bottled soft drinks
and bakers’ and restaurant products, every
single ingredient is artiﬁcial or has been
denatured or dried or dosed with an adul-
terant or preservative—but not one warn-
ing of these facts, even if they are shown
on the labels of the sacks, barrels, and
bottles of materials, comes through to the
consumer.

“What can you as a consumer do? Above
all, let your voice be heard, not once, but
often, in protest. In time the whole noxious
mess of artiﬁcial and adulterated products
must be made illegal; for the present we
can do much by demanding that the facts
be told to all who can read, wherever food
and drink are sold or served.”

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

The Hummingbird’s Flight

EGBERT WALLACE, JR.

CROSS the Gulf of Mexico from Flor-
A ida to Panama, hum the giant planes
of the Pan American air line. With its set
of motors roaring, the ﬂight of one of these
man-made birds is indeed awe inspiring to
watch. Just as awe inspiring to contem—
plate, however, is the ﬂight of a t1ny,
insect-like creature over this same route.
With his own twin-propeller whirring, the
ruby-throated hummingbird ﬂashes upon
his journey twice a year between the north-
ern part of the United States and Panama.

We who are accustomed to watching the
hummingbird darting from ﬂower to ﬂower
in our gardens ﬁnd it hard to conceive of this
tiny bundle of feathers accomplishing such
a vast journey. His nervous speed seems
more ﬁtted for short spurts and dashes
here and there, rather than for the sus-
tained effort required for a long ﬂight. It
has been found that a hummingbird’s wing
vibrates about two hundred times a second
or ﬁve or six times faster than the average
aeroplane propeller revolves. Truly a large
amount of energy must be used by the
hummingbird on his migratory ﬂight. More
than ever we are reminded of a Lilliputian
aircraft.

One cannot help wondering whether the
hummingbird is guided by landmarks on
part of his trip, or if he sets his course by
the stars when crossing the Gulf. What
special sense does this little atom possess

which guides him to his winter and summer

hOmes with an unerringness that sets in-
strument boards to shame? It would be
interesting to know.

There is a profound religious meaning for
the doubting questioning human heart in
that familiar line, “Only God can make a
tree!” Listen to the hermit thrush or the
English thrush or any other winged singer
of the air and why must you not say, “Only
God can make a bird.”

The Scottish S. P. C. A., with head-
quarters in Edinburgh, continues to stress
its humane education work. In its annual
essay competition for 1933 there were 25,799
essays received from 463 schools, a consid—
erable increase over the number for the
preceding year. The subject assigned was:
“Describe how needless suffering is caused
to animals (and birds), and say how it may
be prevented.” Three books were used as
prizes, there being 463 ﬁrst, 115 second,
and 82 third prizes awarded.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

FORM OF BEQUEST

I give to The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelt '
to The American Humane Education Society), the sum of y to Animals (or
dollars (or, If other property, describe the property).

In making your will, kindly bear in mind that the cor crate title of our ' ' “
Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty topAnimals”: that iﬁiiglihyelzec’giid
incorporated (March, 1868) Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals in the countr
andAtha’tc) it has no conlnection with any other similar Society. y,

ny equest especia 1y intended for the beneﬁt of the An ell Memorial A ' ' '
should, nevertheless, be made to The Massachusetts Societg for the PrevenltIilciiiadfI-iiorsiiiiita1
to Animals “for the use of the Hospital,” as the Hospital is not incorporated but is thi
property of that Society and is conducted by it.

TO OUR FRIENDS '/
l
J
l

 

Aug. 1933

Wild Life and the Reforest-‘

ation Army
(Continued from page 120)

game laws, and restrictive measures should
be taken now before the fall open seasons
for hunting begin, when perhaps most of
the men will acquire hunting licenses and
begin what will amount to a wholesale mas-
sacre of wild life right in the haunts Where
wild. life must multiply, if at all.

Co—operation of federal ofﬁcials is de-
sirable but much can be accomplished by a
strict enforcement of state laws which could
be- construed to prevent non—residents from
obtaining hunting licenses except at greatly
increased cost.

America’s Earliest Dogs
EDITHA L. WATSON

CIENTISTS studying basket-maker cul-

ture in northeastern Arizona came
across a cave containing several burials,
which had not previously been disturbed
since those ancient inhabitants of America
ﬂourished—between 2500 and 1500 B. C.

A little family occupied one of the cists
which were used as graves: husband, wife,
and small baby, buried side by side, and
preserved and “mummiﬁed” by the dry air
of the southwest. With them were interred
their two dogs; and this forms, perhaps,
the most ancient example of love for ani—
mals to be found on this continent.

One of the dogs had long light-yellow
hair, and was as large as a small collie.
He still wore a snarl, and was probably the
man’s companion, a strong and not too
friendly creature, and a good watch-dog.
The other was much smaller—a little black
and White fellow, with a rather short nose
and erect ears—looking as if puppy-hood
were not far behind him. It would be easy
to imagine him romping about, getting
under foot, being petted and teased, and
adoring the baby, who was scarcely old
enough to pay much attention to him.

Scientists have determined that these
were true dogs, derived from those long-
ago canines which followed their masters on
the long trek from Asia to America. They
were in no way related to coyotes or other-
dog-like animals of this continent.

 

 

Our Dumb Animals

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston ofﬁce; 180 Longwood Av-
enue.

Address all communications to Boston.

TERMS

One dollar per year. Postage free to any part of
the world.

Humane Societies and Agents are invited to cor-
respond with us for terms on large orders.

A11 dollar subscriptions sent direct to the ofﬁce en-
title the sender to membership in either of our two
Societies.

RATES OF MEMBERSHIP IN
THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
OR THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A

Active Life $100 00 Active Annual $10 00
Associate Life 50 00 Associate Annual 5 00
Sustaining 20 00 Annual 1 00

Children’s $0.75

Checks and other payments may be sent to ALBERT
g. tPOLLARD, Treasurer, 180 Longwood Avenue,
os on.

Manuscripts should be addressed to the Editor.
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston.

 




”av

 

 

 

. -ﬁ. _..._ﬁ-..4__, A H, .. A.,,H . L .. -...... ”A

 

 

 

L’ENVOI

A PAPER OF QUALITY
FOR BUSINESS STATIONERY

Send for Sample
ARTHUR E. HAM & SONS, 10 High St., Boston

 

 

 

 

 

 

HUMANE LIBRARY FOR $1. 00

The new bound volume of OUR DUMB
ANIMALS, including the twelve numbers for
1932, is now ready. There are 192 pp. in all,
about 150 illustrations. Attractively bound in
red cloth. Price this season, only $1.00, post-
paid to any address.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

180 Longwood Avenue, Boston

 

 

 

 

 

Skin Health Derived from Daily
Use of the

CUTICUBA
PREPARATIONS

Price 25c. each. Sample free.
Address: "Cuticura,”Dept. 3K, Malden,Mass.

LAAAAAJ

 

 

 

Observe Humane Sunday
April 23, 1933

In your church, Sunday-school or
young people’s organization. Send
for these helps:

“Our Little Brothers and Sisters,”
Dr. J eﬂ’erson

“Festival of Tender Mercies”
“Simon Grub’s Dream,” poem
“Look at the Birds,” Dr. Jefferson

American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston

 

 

 

 

 

Established 1868

JAMES FORGIE’S SONS
17 Merchants Row
Boston, Mass.
HARNESS.

ENGLISH SADDLERY. AND
EVERYTHING FOR THE HORSE

 

 

 

 

 

See picture on page 37 of the new
Morgan Dennis poster for

BE KIND TO ANIMALS WEEK
April 17-22

One of these should be displayed

in every school-room in the land.

It bears no dates and is suitable for

every day in the year. Place your
order early and save disappointment.

American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Avenue., Boston

 

 

 

 

 

 

Since 1832

J. S. WATERMAN & SONS, INC.

Qanbertakers

BOSTON—BROOKLINE—CAMBRIDGE
City and Out-of-Town Service

 

 

 

Humane literature and Band of Mercy Supplies

for Be Kind to Animals Anniversary, April 17- 22
and Humane Sunday, April 23,1933

For sale by the American Humane Education Society and the Massachusetts S. P. C. A,
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass. ., at these prices, postpaid.

Titles in bold-face type are of books or booklets

Humane Calendar for 1933, each 20

cts., two for 35 cts. ............. $1.80 per dozen
Be Kind to Animals Poster, 17 x 22

inches, one for 10 cts., six for 50 cts.,

or 16 ........................... $1.00
Our Dumb Animals, 1932, bound volume $1.00
Our Dumb Animals, January to Decem-

ber, 1929, 1930, and 1931, bound in

cloth, special, each .............. .75
Colored Posters, 17 x 28 inches, with

attractive pictures and verses, six in

the set ......................... $11.00
Be Kind to Animals Blotters, 61/3 x 33/3. $0. 50 per 100

About the Horse

Black Beauty (English), cloth, 45 cents; paper, 20 cts
The Shame of It '—Mut11at1ng the horse

by setting up his tail. Dr. Rowley’s

protest against this cruelty for fash-

ion’s sake. Four illus., 4 pp. Free
What Constitutes Cruelty, Francis H.

Rowley ......................... $0.30 per 100
Humane Horse Book, 32 pp., 5 cts.

each or ......................... 5.00 “ “
The Horse—Treatment of Sores, Dis-

eases, etc. ....................... .60 “ “
Humane Education Leaﬂet No. 5 ..... .50 “ “
The Horse’s Prayer ................ .30 “ “

The Bell of Atri, poem by Longfellow .50 “ “

The Care of Mules ................. .50 “ “
About the Dog

Beautiful Joe, new, illus., $1.50 ..... small, 50 cts.

Distemper in Dogs, Dr. Schneider ...... Free

Rabies vs. Running Fits, Dr. Schneider . Free

Eulogy on the Dog, by Vest, post- card $1.00 per 100

. The Dog—Its Care in Health and Disease .60

Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 3 and 4.50 “ “
What the Chained Dog Says ........... .50 “ “
The Story of Barry .................... .30 “ “

About the Bird

Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 1 and 2 $0. 50 per 100
How the Birds Help the Farmer ....... .5

The Air-gun and the Birds .
The Trial of the Birds, play .......... each, 5cts.

About the Cat
The Cat—Its Care in Health and Dis-

ease ................................. $0.60 per 100
A Letter to Owners of Cats ............ .30

The Cat in Literature ................. .50 “ “
Do Not Leave Your Cat to Starve ...... .50 “ “

“The Beggar Cat,” post-card, 6 cts. per
doz ................................. .50 “ “

About Other Animals

Prince Rudolf’s Quest, Kenniston, 150
pp., special ................... boards, 50 cts.
The Strike at Shane’s, cloth, 30 cts. ..paper, 7 cts.
Michael Brother of Jerry, Jack London, cloth, 75 cts.
Jack London Club Poster, 22 x 32 inches
onoe efor 15 cts., two for 25 cts., ﬁve or
.............................. each, 10 cts.
Firstr :Aid to Animals, Dr. Schneider,
8p ................................ $1.00 per 100
Whatp is the Jack London Club? .30
Foreword from‘ ‘Michael Brother of Jerry” .30 “ “
Gripped in the Teeth of Steel, 2 pp. .. 1.00 “ “

About Other Animals—Continued

How to Kill Animals Humanely, 4 pp. .$1. 00 per 100
Humane Education Leaﬂet, No. 6, Ani-

mals ................................ .50 “ “
Humane Education Leaﬂet, No. '7, Farm

Animals ............................. .50 per 100
Ways of Kindness ..................... .50 per 100
Why the Toad is so Useful ............. .30 “

9’

“Empty Tin Cans, card ............... Free

Humane Education

The Humane Bulletin, for use in schools,
96 p.p .................. 12 cents each; ten for $1. 00
Care and Kindness for Our Animal
Friends, 29 pp., paper covers, many
illus. ............. 15 cents each; seven for $1.00
Kindness Picture Book, 32 pp.
15 cents each; seven for $1.00
The Teacher’s Helper in Humane Edu-

cation, 32 pp. .................. each, 10 cts.
Humane Education—for Parents and

Teachers, 20 pp. ................. each, 10 cts.
Picture Lesson Cards, each, 10 cts. ., set

of eight ......................... 35 cts.
“Be Kind to Animals” Pennants ...... each, 25 cts.
“Be Kind to Animals” Placards ...... each, 3 cts.
The Humane Idea, Dr. Francis H.

Rowley ............... cloth, 35 cts.; paper, 15 cts.

Friends and Helpers (selections for
school use), Sarah J. d ...... .. cloth, 96 cts.
Animals as Seen by the Poets, Guy

Richardson, 32 pp. ..... cloth, 35 cts. , paper, 10 cts
Address to Boston Public Schools ...... $2.00 per 100
Lessons on Kindness to Animals ........ 3.00

Fred Changes His Mind, play, 5 cts. each; six for 25 cts.
“And a Little Child Shall Lead Them,

ply ..................... 3 cts. each; six for 15 cts.
Friends of Fur and Feather, play, .

3 cts. each; ten for 25 cts.

Humane Day in Schools, with class-room

project, 8 pp. ....................... $2. 00 per 100
Humane Exercises 2.00
Our Little Brothers and Sisters, sermon

for boys and girls, by Dr. Jefferson,

DP
Humane Education, What to Teach and
How to Teach It.
Early Lessons in Kindness or Cruelty .50 “ “
Outlines of Study in Humane Education,

8 ............................... 1.50 “ “
A Talk with the Teacher ............... .50 “ “
The Coming Education ................ .30 “ “
A Festival of Tender Mercies .......... .50 “ “
A Great Prophecy, Dr. Rowley ........ Free

Band of Mercy

“Be Kind to Animals” Buttons, three
styles—Band of Mercy, Humane So-
ciety, or S. P. C. A. .................. $1. 00 per 100
Buttons—White star on blue ground with
gilt letters and border, one cent each . 1.00 “ “

Badges, gold ﬁnish, large, 10 cts. . small, Bets.
“Band of Mercy” Pennant .. ......... 35 cts.
Songs of Happy Life, with Music, S.
J. Eddy ...................... 50 cts.
Songs of Happy Life (56 pages, words
only) ...................... $3. 00 per 100
Band of Mercy Membership Card ....... .50
How to Form Bands of Mercy .......... .50 “ “

Does it Pay, story of one Band of Mercy .30 “ "

Please enclose remittance with orders for less than $1

. AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY, 180 Longwood Ave., Boston, Mass.

 

 

180 Longwood Avenue

 

 

For rentals of the ﬁlm , ll

THE BELL OF ATRI

The best motion picture illustrating kindness to animals, during

BE KIND TO ANIMALS WEEK

It will be necessary to make arrangements at once.

Safety and regular stock, also small 16-mm. for portable machines.

AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY

Boston, Mass.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 110
an» {hub of ﬂurry

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

E. A. MARYOTT, State Organizer
PLEDGE

I will try to be kind to all living creatures and try
to protect them from cruel usage.

The American Humane Education Society will send
to every person who forms a Band of Mercy of thirty
members, and sends the name chosen for the .Band and
the name and post-ofﬁce address of the pres1dent who
has been duly elected, special Band of Mercy literature
and a gilt badge for the president.

See inside front cover for prices of literature and
Band of Mercy supplies.

NEW BANDS OF MERCY

One thousand and eighty-ﬁve new Bands
of Mercy were reported during May. Of
these, 591 were in Illinois, 145 in Vermont,
131 in Georgia, 108 in Rhode Island, 58 in
Massachusetts, 22 in Pennsylvania, 18 in
Tennessee, ﬁve in Texas, four in Virginia,
two in Wisconsin, and one in New Hamp-
shire.

Total number Bands of Mercy organized
by Parent American Society, 195,886.

0 o

Do not forget that in hot weather all
domestic animals need a plentiful supply of
water easily available.

Permits for Visiting Pets

FRANK H. CROSS

ISITORS to Arizona, who would take

dogs, cats, or other pets with them, are
required to apply for a permit to the state
veterinarian, Capitol building, Phoenix.
Such a permit will be issued with the fol-
lowing stipulations:

A statement will be required from a 1i-
censed veterinary that the dog is free from
disease and that his neighborhood has been
free from rabies for the past six months.
If rabies has been present, a certiﬁcate
showing the dog has been immunized within
the past eight or ten months will be re—
quired. Owners of dogs will be required to
show such certiﬁcates upon passing any of
the Arizona quarantine stations when en-
tering the state, it is said.

 

TIGER SWALLOW—TAIL BUTTERFLY
AND PETUNIAS

...:.,.'ng—~-~_‘. .__.. -. .

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

“DAVEY BEEBE”

Epitaph by his owner, ETHEL FAIRMONT,
Cheshire, Conn.
He gave us love and loyalty—
The rarest gifts beneath the sun;
If such a comrade has no soul,
Then, Reader, I have none!

Why We Love the Elephant

NETTIE WYSOR

OR strength and intelligence, for

humor and kindliness, for'his many
other near—human qualities, where is there
his equal in all the animal creation? The
giant gray beast with the big ears, with the
teeth protruding from his upper jaw, and
the incredible trunk that serves so many
useful purposes, has attracted mankind al—
most since the dawn of history.

These characteristic features of the ele-
phant, indeed, have furnished no end of
interest and amusement to people of all
ages; for in the whole round of creation
no physical feature can be found more
efﬁcient and comprehensive in its uses than
the elephant’s trunk. Made up of very
strong and sensitive muscles and having at
the end a sort of thumb—and-ﬁnger forma-
tion, it does for the elephant a great many
things. It is his nose, upper lip, arm, and
hand all in one. With it he picks up small
objects, smells, drinks, and carries food to
his mouth. He stores away several gallons
of water in his big stomach, drawing it out
again, as needed to refresh his body. In
making his way through the jungle he uses
his trunk like an arm, pulling up trees by
the roots or holding to them to keep from
slipping. If he goes swimming—an exer-
cise in which he delights—he can sub-
merge his whole body; for by keeping his
trunk up in the air he breathes as easily as
if on land. Naturally, such a long snout
sometimes gets in the way or is in danger,
but that does not trouble the elephant; he
simply rolls it up on his head to bring his
tusks into action, or tucks it into his mouth
to protect it from harm. No wonder he
looks so knowingly out of his small eyes.

An elephant that has been broken to the
service of man is invaluable. In Oriental
state processions, his trappings, colorful,
the howdah on his back occupied by a rich
potentate, he is the embodiment of splen-
did dignity. In former times his use in
war spread terror in the ranks of the

._.__. _. ._._-__________. , 1 .

July, 1933

enemy; he was sometimes even taught to
hold a weapon in his trunk. In India and
Ceylon, when jungle lands are to be
cleared, an elephant does the work of many
men. He carries heavy timbers on his
tusks, holding them in place with his trunk
and setting about his work with skill when
he sees what is expected of him.

But size and strength. and intelligence,
admirable as they are, do not account for
the esteem in which this ﬁrst citizen of the

jungle is held by all who know him either

personally or by reputation. The elephant,
in a word, is a ﬁne character. Though he
ﬁghts against being tamed, in a few months
he becomes as docile and friendly as a dog
and inspires undying affection in those to
whom he belongs or who have the care of
him. Sometimes he shows his love for his
master by putting his “arm” around him
in return for the petting his master bestows
upon him. Mukerji tells a story of an ele-
phant who, after years spent in civilization,
felt the call of the wild and escaped to the
jungle. There, even at the risk of becom-
ing an outcast from the herd, he saved the
lives of two hunters; for they were men,
and he loved men.

It is gratifying to know that the English
and Belgian Governments are reversing
their African policy of destroying ele-
phants and are now interested in preserv-
ing these powerful creatures that are so
clever, so lovable, and so willing to work.

Oldest Cat Passes On

FRANK H. CROSS

“Dolly Newton,” a cat that belonged to
John Steven McGroarty, famous California
author and playwright, is dead at twenty
years of age. Her owner claimed that she
was one of the oldest cats in the United
States. Now, he says, she is back with her
ancestors in Egypt, “where all good cats go
when their stay on earth is ended.”

Dolly Newton was a remarkable cat. She
received letters from all over the world,
took pleasure in automobile rides, and per-
formed many tricks. Her famous owner
maintained that “the line between her and
human intelligence was thin and vague.”

McGroarty, an admirer of cats, main-
tains that they are the only animals that
man has never been able to enslave.

Exit the Dog Catcher

The Pueblo (Colorado) Indicator is one
of our valued weekly exchanges. Its editor,
Patrick Byrnes, often indicates his interest
in humane matters. He conducts a column
headed “In Nature’s Domain” from which
we reprint the following:

May 31 will see the last of the dog
catcher in Pueblo. All funds in the budget
will be exhausted by that time and no others
will be supplied. Should he attempt to oper-
ate after May 31 he can be arrested and
dealt with in the Courts. At last Pueblo is
realizing how unpopular it is to support
a dog catcher, a relic of the old times.

No city or town can have good luck that
lends itself to the murder of dogs. There
are cases where dogs should be controlled,
but dog catchers as a rule are evil jinx
who bring bad fortune. They won’t like it
in dog heaven.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

Mar. 1983

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Page 1;]

Sixty-fifth Annual Report of the President *

For the Year Ending December 31, 1932

l

The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals .

HOSE were days of small things in

humane work, sixty-ﬁve years ago, when

George Thorndike Angell founded ,the
Massachusetts Society for the Prevention
of Cruelty to Animals. Some legislation
was on the statute books of the Common-
wealth for the protection of animals from
cruelty but it was rarely enforced. Acts
of brutality to animals, incredible today,
went unpunished. The lot of the unfortu-
nate beast or bird called for a champion.
Mr. Angell heard that call. Two years be-
fore Henry Bergh had heard it in New
York State and founded the American So-
ciety for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals, the ﬁrst Society of its kind in
America.

The idea of an S. P. C. A. in Massachu—
setts at once enlisted the interest and co-
operation of a number of the ﬁnest citizens
of Boston—members of its oldest and soci-
ally most prominent families. Here are
some of the names: Appleton, Bigelow,
Adams, Sturgis, Saltonstall, Weld, Howe,
Slade, Evans, Motley, Moreland, Noyes,
Gray, Reed, Conery.

It sounds a little strange today to read
(and yet perhaps “more things are wrought
by prayer than this world dreams of”) that
the day of its founding Mr. Angell and Mr.
Sturgis knelt in the former’s ofﬁce and
sought “God’s blessing” upon their new
undertaking. The growth of the Society
was rapid. Mr. Angell became an apostle
of what was practically a new gospel so
far as the animal world was concerned.
North, South, East and West he went lec-
turing, forming new societies, sending out
his monthly magazine by the thousands
from one end of the country to the other.

Twenty—one years later, 1889, there was
born in his fertile brain the idea of the
American Humane Education Society, its
purpose the cultivation and fostering, par-
ticularly in the hearts of the young, the
spirit of justice and compassion toward all
sentient life. It was the ﬁrst organization
of its kind ever founded, unless we should
regarf”, Christianity itself as such a society.
At least, irrespective of creed or sect, its
goal was a world with its face set against
all cruelty, against national and race prej-
udice, against strife, violence and war and
all unbrotherliness. Today the American
Humane Education Society has become in-
ternational as well as national. Through
its federated relations with the Parent-
Teacher Association and the International
Federation of Home and School its inﬂu—
ence is touching at least more than ﬁfty
countries of thevglobe.

The Work of the Society’s Agents
During 1932
These ﬁgures represent the work of th0se

who operate from the home ofﬁce and those
throughout the several other counties of

the Commonwealth with ofﬁces in Spring;
ﬁeld, Pittsﬁeld, Worcester, New Bedford,
Hyannis, Lynn and Methuen.

Miles traveled ............... 172,577
Complaints investigated ....... 7,946
Animals examined in investiga-

tions ..................... 65,627
Horses taken from work ....... 708
Horses humanely put to sleep 749
Other animals humanely put to

sleep ..................... 12,973
Animals inspected at stockyards

and abattoirs .............. 447,804
Injured or sick animals at stock-

yards and» abattoirs humanely

put to sleep ............... 314
Horses watered on Boston streets 27,145
Prosecutions ................ 122
Convictions ................. 108

Ambulance Trips

Horse ambulances ............ 96
Small animal ambulances ...... 5,654

And yet people often say, “Now that
there are so many fewer horses, what is
there left for your Society to do?”

The Angell Memorial Animal Hospital
During 1932

Small animals treated ........ 7,850
Large animals ............... 67
Birds ....................... 69
Cases entered in Hospital ..... 7,986
Operations .................. 9,685
Dispensary Cases
Small animals treated ......... 25,253
Large animals ............... 40
Birds ....................... 412

Treated by correspondence ..... 408
Total treated in Dispensary 25,705
Total animals and birds treated

last year .................. 33,691

SUMMARY

Cases in Hospital since opened,

March 1,1915 ............. 107,904
Cases in Dispensary since March

1, 1915 ................... 238,117

Total ..................... 346,021

Our Springﬁeld Hospital

Though the following ﬁgures are in-
cluded in those given above, we give them
in detail for the Springﬁeld Branch:

Cases entered in Hospital ..... 554
Dispensary cases ............. 1,557
Operations .................. 640
Cremations ................. 14
Animals quarantined ......... 43
Homes found for animals ...... 864
Animals humanely put to sleep 2,722
Ambulance trips ............. 1,888

The Rest Farm for Horses

Our Rest Farm at Methuen with its
Small Animal Shelter has had an unusu-
ally busy year. We have had an average
during the 12 months of 301/; horses, some
pensioners, some taken for rest belonging
to men who could not afford to give them
any vacation, three Boston police horses
retired, a number received for a period of
rest before their owners desired them hu—
manely put to sleep. The Superintendent,
also one of the Society’s agents, took 31
horses from work and humanely put to

 

SIKA DEER AT MASS S. P. C. A. REST FARM, METHUEN

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

HLY
TME

R C
.lO
mMs
Y N
nmm
.0. m
oww
SLE
SF.—
wwm
ECM
i
HON

C A
MNK
5mm

. MNA
Em
EWT
HRD
TPM

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

PEACE ON EARTH,
KINDNESS, JUSTICE
AND MERCY 'ro /
EVERY LIVING
CREATURE.

 

Founded by Geo. T. Angell. Incorporated 1889

For rates of membership in both of our Societies
see back cover. Checks should be made payable to
Treasurer.

Ofﬁcers of the American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds
JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman, Chase Harris Forbes
Corporation
CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President, United Shoe
Machinery Corporation
PHILIP STOCKTON, President, First National Bank of
Boston

Foreign Corresponding Representatives

George B. Duff ................... Australia

Luis Pareja Cornejo .............. Ecuador

Charles A. Williams .............. France

Leonard T. Hawksley ............. Italy

Mrs. Mary P. E. Nitobe ........... Japan

Mrs. Marie C. E. Houghton ........ Madeira

Dr. A. T. Ishkanian .............. Mexico

Luther Parker .................... Philippine Islands
Joaqum Julia .................... Spain

Mrs. Alice W. Manning ........... Turkey

Humane Press Bureau
Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke, Secretary
180 Longwood Ave., Boston

Field Workers of the Society

Mrs. Alice L. Park, Palo Alto, California
Mrs. Rachel C. ' '

James D. Burton, Oakdale, Tennessee

Mrs. Katherine Weathersbee, Atlanta, Georgia

Rev. F. Rivers Barnwell, Fort Worth, Texas

MISS Blanche Finley, Richmond, Virginia

Rev. John W. Lemon, Ark, Virginia

MISS Lucia F. Gilbert, Boston, Massachusetts
rs. Jennie R. Toomim, Chicago, Illinois

Seymour Carroll, Columbia, S. C.

Field Representative
Wm. F. H. Wentzell, M.S., Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

Field Lecturer in Massachusetts
Ella A. Maryott

France and the Horse

A French publication, the organ of a
French society especially devoted to. the pro-
tection of the horse, states that according
to the latest census there are in that coun-
try 2,919,700 horses, 143,000 mules and
240,970 asses. Total 3,303,670. There are
destroyed annually for human consumption
in the region of Paris, at the present time,
according to the last statistics, approxi-
mately 75,000 horses.

Sang at the Fair

The many friends of that devoted humane
worker, Mrs. Wilson Groshans, of Aurora,
Illinois, will be glad to learn that she was
invited to sing at the World’s Fair, August
31, Holland Day. Mrs. Groshans sang “Old
Hundred,” in English, German and H01-
landish. She used an old Dutch Bible which
has been in her family (she was a Van
Dyke) for over three hundred years.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Royal Turin S. P. A.

The Blue Cross

HE Royal Turin Society for the Pro-

tection of Animals was founded by
Garibaldi in 1871 and was granted state
recognition by Royal decree in 1889. Of the-
twenty-two Italian Societies, it is the old-
est, the most active, and the largest in
membership. It has 3,400 members. Its
aim is to protect animals by defending them
from cruelty, insufﬁcient nourishment and
any form whatever of ill treatment, and
to assist as far as possible the poor who
have recourse to it. It has 100 voluntary
helpers among the agents of public safety
who superintend street trafﬁc, railway
yards, stables, slaughter-houses, and mar-
kets. In its kennels, capable of housing about
100 animals, it shelters abandoned dogs
until homes are found for them.

Rural Society Does Fine
Work

The Susquehanna County Humane So—
ciety, a small but very active organization
with headquarters in Montrose, Pa., has
issued its report for the year ending July
31, 1933. Inspection and relief included
59 horses, 912 cattle, 217 dogs, 235 cats, 31
pigs, 179 sheep, eight goats, 568 chickens,
and rabbits, birds and a turtle. Regular
stockyard inspections are made on Mon-
day mornings. Less cruelty is found in the
present method of shipment by truck over
the former one of train transportation. The
Society now owns an attractive shelter, in-
cluding a farm-house occupied by its agent,
other buildings and two acre-s of land upon
which commodious kennels have been built.
Think what it means to the animals in this
rural community to have such an efﬁcient
Society in its midst!

Animals and Forestation
F. M. T A N N O N

According to reports from an experimen-
tal station in the state of Washington, small
rodents are playing a very active part in
reforestation projects. Mice and chipmunks
are helping to replant forests which have
been destroyed by ﬁre or by commercial
practices.

Some of the large trees remaining in the
Douglas ﬁr region do the seeding for those
which have been destroyed. But mice and
chipmunks help by burying the seeds of
the trees just beneath the surface soil. Part
of the buried seeds are eaten but a great
deal is left to grow for the next season.

The snows and soil movements deceive
the rodents as to the location of the buried
treasure so they unwittingly allow the seeds
to remain. When other trees are cut down,
the seeds are brought to light, ready to ger-
minate and grow. '

The Douglas ﬁrs have a large crop of
seeds every two or three years, so the mice
and chipmunks are useful aids in saving
the seeds for off-years when there is not
such a large crop. Thus, some of the small-
est and most despised animals in the world
—mice and chipmunks—do their share in
promoting the growth of the world’s larg-
est living things—the trees of the Paciﬁc
Coast.

Oct. 1933

“Daisy Day” on Cape Ann

AISY Day” on Cape Cod, as conducted

by the Women’s Auxiliary of the
Massachusetts S. P. C. A., was so success-
ful that it was decided to have asimilar
occasion on Cape Ann, August 26. Under
the direction of Mrs. Edith Washburn
Clarke, president of the Auxiliary, a corps
of young women both in Gloucester and in
Rockport aided in the collection of funds
for the work, a substantial sum being real-
ized. Those assisting in Gloucester were
Mrs. Joseph T. Moulton, chairman, and
Misses Jennie Anderson, Laura Poor, Doro-
thea Hobbs, Virginia Parsons, Ethel Stan-
ley, Priscilla Smith, Priscilla Wonson, Hope
Hilton, Marjorie Jensen, Virginia Weeks,
Mary Cameron, Mary Cowing, Phyllis Ar-
nold, Lois Castle, Dorothy Spanks, Caro-
line Atwater, Priscilla Kippen, Ivy Kippen,
June Gorman, Helen Wonson, Caroline
Jacobs, Mary Cameron, Mabelle Cameron
and Olive Olson.

In Rockport there were two chairmen,
Mrs. FlOrence A. Morrill and Miss Marion
Grayce, who were assisted by Misses Mar—
inne Morrill, Felicia Ricchia, Betty Won—
son, Mary Mare, Anna Quinn, Esther John-
son, Cora Lane, Francis Wilkinson, Vir-
ginia Sturat and Virginia Curtis.

Plans are now being made for a Branch
organization, to be called the Cape Ann
Auxiliary of the Massachusetts S. P. C. A.
Many prominent club women in that ter-
ritory are aiding the work, as they feel
they may be able to accomplish practical
results, especially in restraining summer
visitors from abandoning pets. Those in—
terested should address Mrs. Clarke, presi-
dent of the Auxiliary, 180 Longwood AV-
enue, Boston.

Anti-Steel Trap Law

Massachusetts, a year or two ago, step-
ped out in front and enacted an anti-trap-
ping law. It took a long step forward and
in part made amends for some of the silly
things perpetrated in the past. But it seems
that it was too much for the legislature of
that state to be really progressive and stand
out in a; great humanitarian cause. A ma-
jority of the people of that state were heard
on this question and gave their mandate
to the law makers in no uncertain way, and
at that time the legislature heard and
obeyed the mandate. But this legislature
seems to have forgotten that, or do they
think, as legislatures seem to think, that
the people do not know what they want?
This recent effrontery of the law makers
of Massachusetts will be met by an aroused
people who will meet and answer their chal—
lenge in no uncertain way. They will be
asked to do over and better than before
the ﬁne work they have just undone.

é—Red Ranger

Fondouk Report Delayed

The report of the American Fondouk at
Fez, Morocco, for July was not received in
time for this issue but will appear next
month. , .

A man is ethical only when life, as such,
is sacred to him, that of plants and ani-
mals as that of his fellow-men, and when
he devotes himself helpfully to all life that
is in need of help. ALBERT SCHWEITZER

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 36

EDITOR’S NOTE: .
Some readers of this and the two chapters‘whic'h
are to follow may take issue with the author 1n his
observation and estimate of the squirrel family, esp_ec1-
ally in its relation to the birds. There are unquestion-
ably good and bad squirrels. Of the latter the red
variety are charged with being the most destructlve
of young birds and eggs in the nests. Such depreda-
tions should be prevented whenever poss1ble. The
late Edward Howe Forbush, ardent bird champion
that he was, had this to say on the matter: “Some
individual squirrels are habitual nest robbers. It 1s
not so widely known that squirrels eat insects as that
they rob birds’ nests. Possibly their virtues may bal-

.ance their faults; but we shall never be able to de-

termine their economic position until a thorough study
of their food habits can be made.”

HE native wild animals that make their

homes within the boundaries of my

farm differ widely in their attitude
toward human society. None of them shuns
us entirely, or they would not be living here
at all, though I suspect that some of them
are more interested in our gardens and
granaries than in ourselves. Some, like the
weasel and raccoon, are so exceedingly shy
that we never see them. Others, like the
rabbit and woodchuck, have their bold mo-
ments when the temptation of young lettuce
or cauliﬂower plants overcomes their nor-
mal timidity. The squirrels, on the other
hand, seem to enjoy our presence. That we
may contribute in some degree to their win-
ter store does not explain their evident lik-
ing for the proximity of human habitations,
for wild fruits and nuts form the great bulk
of their diet. Fearless, impudent, and self-
conﬁdent, they seek us for no reason that I
can ascertain except a certain liking for
sociability. They may pretend to be terribly
annoyed by our activities; they may sputter
and scold and swear at us; but it fails to
deceive. We know the little rascals like us
and we are ﬂattered.

The result is that I have become better
acquainted with the squirrels than with
any other native wild animals—with their
characters and habits. The formal natural-
history deﬁnition presents the squirrel as a
slender, sprightly rodent with a long, bushy
tail and strong hind legs. He is a diurnal
rather than a nocturnal animal, says this
learned deﬁnition, and most kinds are ar-
boreal, though some are burrowing. Squir-
rels are chieﬂy vegetarians and most of
them hibernate. Their food consists of
nuts, acorns, grains, seeds, and fruits, which
they store for winter.

The squirrel is known and loved all over
the world. Japanese artists have long pic-
tured him in his various graceful poses. The
word squirrel comes, through the Latin
sciurus, from two Greek words, skia and
oura, meaning shade or shadow, and tail.
It has sometimes been assumed that this
had reference to the smoky, shadow-like
quality of the gray squirrel’s tail, and he
has been called Shadow-Tail, but I am in-
clined to think that it refers rather to the
squirrel’s use of his tail as a sunshade.

We have both gray and red squirrels on
our farm, though seldom both in the same
year. Red squirrels are supposed to drive
away the bigger grays, but with us they
have not always succeeded. The gray squir_
rel is the handsomest of the tribe, the red
the liveliest and most amusing. But just at
the moment I am mOre interested in their
striped little cousin, the chipmunk, because

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

The Squirrel Tribe

1. The Gray Squirrel
WALTER A. DYER

he made himself so exceed—
ingly neighborly all last
summer. ’ "

The gray squirrel (Seiurida
carolinensis) is one of the
most numerous of the tribe
and is indigenous to the east—
ern half of the United States,
from Canada to Florida and
as far west as Minnesota.
He is the largest of the com-
mon kinds and has the bushi-
est tail. This tail he uses as
a sort of rudder in his appar-
ently perilous leaps among
high and slender branches,
and he also probably ﬁnds it
useful in helping him to keep
warm. He has large, round,
bright eyes and erect, pointed
ears.

In his native haunts the gray squirrel
commonly builds a spherical nest of twigs
and leaves high up in the fork of a bough
or in a tree-top. For ’winter occupancy he
lines a cavity in a tree with leaves and
grasses. Pairs often occupy the same nest
for several years. Three or four young ones
are born in June, as a rule, and remain
with their parents until the following
spring. ‘

The gray squirrel stores nuts and other
foods in nooks and crannies in trees. He
is perhaps most picturesque when eating.
Sitting up on his haunches with his tail
curled over his back, he grasps his nut in
his little hands and gnaws down to the ker-
nel, rapidly ejecting the inedible material.

The gray squirrel likes town life and is a
common inhabitant of city parks where he
often becomes very tame, but in town he has
been corrupted by man and his peanuts and
has become lazy and improvident, prefer-
ring to remain awake in winter and beg
rather than store food for the cold weather.
Many of his natural habits undergo a
change and he seldom takes the trouble to
build a good nest. Indeed, he often invades
cellars and attics.

From a window in town I have often
watched the gray squirrels playing tag up
and down the trees or hurrying across the
next yard on some important errand. Al—
ways they were on the lookout for cats and
dogs. They would progress by short, swift
stages, always stopping with forefeet placed
evenly, ready for a quick get-a-way. One
gray squirrel used to appear almost every
day one winter on the fence outside my
window with an ear of yellow corn, prob-
ably ﬁlched from some farmer’s corn-crib.
This he shelled and ate with an appear-
ance of great satisfaction, ejecting the hulls
in a little golden shower and swallowing
or pouching the edible portion with a sure-
ness and rapidity that fascinated me. A
dog will lie and gnaw a bone for hours, en-
joying it in the fullness of leisure, but a
squirrel eats nervously as though in con-
stant fear of interruption.

Here on the farm the gray squirrel is
rather wild and shy, and I think he prefers
the woods to the neighborhood of the house.
But in October he visits the ﬁve tall hickory

Mar. 1933

 

TYPICAL POSE OF MR. GRAY SQUIRREL

trees near our barn and makes a business
of harvesting the nuts. I wish he were a
little more friendly, but at least he con-
tributes life and beauty to the scene and I
always welcome his return.

The Value of the Mink

WILLIS MEHANNA

NE morning not so very long ago as I

went down into the barn-lot I noticed
rats running out from under the barns and
corn-cribs in a terror-stricken sort of man-
ner. I found the cause of this to be a black
mink and he was not only scaring the rats,
he was killing them. My old Newfoundland
dog, “Curly,” helped get some of the rats
but for fear Curly might attack the mink I
ﬁnally shut him up in his kennel.

In three or four days there was not a
rat to be found on my place. All that the
mink and Curly did not kill left for a safer
habitation. This little incident, triﬂing in
itself, holds a lesson for farmers. The mink
is not a poultry-devouring creature. His
prey consists of vermin and his value is not
in his pelt but in his activities.

Little Things

Little things that run and quail

And die in silence and despair;

Little things that ﬁght and fall

All fall on earth and sea and air;

All trapped and frightened little things,
The mouse, the eony, hear our prayer.

As we forgive those done to us,

The lamb, the linnet, and the hare,
Forgive us all our trespasses,

Little creatures everywhere.

JAMES STEPHENS, in “Modern British
Poetry”

Read Jack London’s “Michael Brother of
Jerry.” The volume will be mailed, post
free, to any address upon receipt of price,
75 cents.

THE JACK LONDON CLUB
is built on it. Will you join it? No dues.
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 156

Reply
NELLE GRAVES MCGILL

I pondered, as I sat one sparkling day

Watching two colts, a sorrel and a bay,

That raced, with ﬂying mane and pulsing
flank,

Joyous and free upon the river bank:

“Those poor dumb creatures! Can they
understand

Or sense earth’s beauty? Do they know the
Hand

That put them here, and gives them drink
and food?

Can they feel reverence, or gratitude?”

The sorrel colt, his nostrils keen, a-quiver,

Halted, with head upﬂung, beside the river;

Sniﬂed the clean air, cool water, and green
sod,

And neighed—as if he might be thanking
God!

To Prohibit Live Decoys

FRANK H. CROSS

’11" W0 reforms in the Federal Game Regu-
lations are sought by Dr. William T.
Hornaday, director of the Permanent Wild
Life Protection Fund, and he has issued a
call to friends of wild life to write to Henry
A. Wallace, Secretary of Agriculture, in
Washington, and voice their approval of
them. One of the reforms sought is to for-
bid the baiting of game to entice it up to
the guns. The other is to forbid the use of
live decoys to lure geese and ducks into a
barrage of guns. Dr. Hornaday, in defense
of these reforms, points out that:

“Of course, it is probable that the stop-
page of those two too-deadly practices,
whenever carried out, will give rise to pro-
tests from the gunners whose deadly meth-
ods are stopped. . . Of course, some of the
‘shooting stands’ of Massachusetts might go
out of business. Of course, some of the
‘goose-selling’ clubs of Illinois and California
might be reduced. Every reform measure
necessarily reforms the objectionable prac-
tice it seeks to abate.”

It is Dr. Hornaday’s conviction that cer-—
tain migratory birds will be completely ex-
terminated in a few years and that every-
thing possible should be done to retard or
prevent the disappearance of wild life.
The high-ﬂying geese and ducks, weaving a
faint line against the far sky to which we
lift our eyes as the seasons change, are too
near the mystery of Time and Change in
our hearts to be destroyed merely for a
thrill to the hunter who enjoys seeing a
bird on the wing brought hurtling down to
earth by a leaden slug.

Help Retired Workers

The American Humane Education So-
ciety has received gifts of $6,067 as a
trust fund for the beneﬁt of ﬁeld mission-
aries and others who have spent their lives
in promoting humane education.

We will welcome your contribution to
this fund. Please make checks payable to
Treasurer, American Humane Education
Society, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, and
specify that the amount contributed is for
the Humane Education Trust Fund.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Oct. 1933

The Wonderland of Australia

S. M. NEAL

 

REAT Barrier Reef is that fringe, a

coral curtain circling the northeast

corner of Australia, the coast of
Queensland, enclosing a channel between it
and the mainland, in some places twenty
miles wide and much more in others. This
reef is probably the most exquisite bit of
coral formation in the world. The illustra-
tion, used by the courtesy of the Australian
Travel Association, shows 'a bit of the intri—
cate patterned formations. These prove
that coral can be excitingly diﬁerent from
any other lime formation. It is a mistake
to think of coral as the lifeless pink, white
or red of the beads and trinkets one sees
in jewelry stores or like the exhibits seen
in museums. Such things indicate no liv—
ing charm but a glimpse of Great Barrie-r
Reef quickly? corrects any such idea of
coral. This vast coral curtain, which in
places is only 15 miles from the continent,
reaches down into the sea to almost in-
credible depths and is of very steep forma-
tion.

Cape York is a settlement at the very
northernmost tip of Australia, a peninsula
projecting into Torrens Strait and separat-
ing Australia from the island of New
Guinea. Thus Cape York is the beginning
of the Reef which extends for 1,250 miles
down the east coast of Queensland to Lady
Eliot Island where is located a lighthouse.
At points the reef is a stretch of irregular
coral island with atolls and lagoons at in-
tervals and sometimes covered with vegeta-
tion, sometimes fringed with cocoanut palms
and often quite bare.

At places where rivers from the main-
land ﬂow into the channel between the main-
land and the reef, the reef will be broken,
for the coral polyp dies in fresh water.
Some of these breaks in the reef are wide
enough to allow passage but generally are
narrow.

The picture shows tropical ﬁsh swimming
about the dainty plant-like formations
which are of subdued colors, bright colors,

MARINE LIFE ON THE GREAT CORAL REEF

 

 

glistening white and the famous rare black
coral. All manner of plant-like forms, geo—
metrical designs and fantastic shapes make
the coral growth a surprise.

The world ﬁrst learned of the Great Bar-
rier Reef in 1770, when Captain Cook ex—
ploring for England, accidentally brought
his ship “Endeavor,” into the channel be-
tween the reef and the mainland and con-
sequently suffered considerable damage
from the dangerous sharp projections of
the reef, and had to put up for repairs. Mar-
iners have learned to steer carefully
through this enchanted blue channel and to
keep off the brown and green water which
indicate danger below. The reef is now
fully charted as it was not in Captain
Cook’s time, nor was navigation the exact
science then that it is today, and the teethed
formations can be avoided.

The fauna of the Reef is necessarily lim-
ited and the only member of the kangaroo
family found here is the tree-climbing mem—
ber. However, all naturalists, whether bot-
anists, geologists or zoologists, ﬁnd life on
the Reef fascinating and some who came
for short stays have remained for years.

One End All Right

Willie went with his father to see a
young colt. He patted its head and seemed
delighted with the animal in general until
its owner cautioned him to be careful that
the colt did not turn about and kick him.

Later, when telling his mother about
the colt. Willie said: “I liked him pretty
well. He’s very tame in front—but he’s
awful wild behind.”

——Christian Science Monitor

Our readers are urged to clip from “Our
Dumb Animals” various articles and re-
their republish.
Copies so mutilated will be made good by
us upon application.

quest local editors to

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 108

The Surest-footed Animal
LESTER BANKS

OATS, moose and elk are known to

possess marvelous bodily balance and
an uncanny accuracy in the placement of
their feet; but the popular impression that
they never fall from the dizzy heights to
which they often climb is erroneous. I have
personally known both moose and elk to die
from such falls.

The mountain goat is the surest—footed of
all, and the most intelligent in meeting cer-
tain emergencies that arise on narrow
trails. When two goats meet on an ex-
tremely narrow ridge with a precipice on
each side, coolness and intelligence are in-
dispensable. They cannot pass, nor retreat,
as there is no room in which to turn about.

Under these circumstances, the goats
stand and look at each other thoughtfully
for some time and mentally discuss matters.
Then one of them kneels and lies down very
carefully, and the other deliberately walks
over him. They never get rattled and lose
their heads. You will always ﬁnd that any
species of animal is about as clever as any
other in the particular line of business
which concerns its existence.

Boyd Hilderbrand, outdoor-man of the
Lake Chelan district, Washington State, re-
lates that while he was following a band of
goats in that region they came to a ledge
only a few inches wide, a mere seam on a
precipitous rock face, with a sheer drop of
perhaps two hundred feet below.

Hilderbrand, a lover of wild life, feared
that he had stampeded the goats so that
they would jump or be crowded off the
ledge. As they strung out in single ﬁle and
walked the ledge, he concluded they were
merely following a regular runway. The
last of the animals, however, undertook to
follow a second narrow ledge up the moun-
tain side, which Hilderbrand saw “pinched
out” a short distance ahead.

It did not look as if a chipmunk could
turn around on that narrow path, Hilder-
brand thought, as he contemplated his re-
sponsibility for the animal’s predicament.
The goat followed the ledge to its very end,
then rising on its hind legs, with its fore-
feet facing the abyss, pivoted and started
to retrace its steps. Hilderbrand watched

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Be Kind

By LOUISE M. STURTEVANT, So. Sudbury, Mass.

Awarded honorable mention in prize contest of
OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Be kind to every living thing,
Hurt not, nor wound, nor slay,

A lasting peace will reign o’er all,
And gladden every day.

Birds will gaily sing for you,
Flowers will smile and nod“
For every time that you are kind,

You do an act of God.

Because a man you feel you are
Endowed with a mightier power,

Why trample down the lowly ones
And sadden their short hour?

To lead their lives they have a right,
Just as you and I,

The sun and moon and stars are theirs,
The earth and sea and sky.

Oh, let them tread the wooded paths,
Roam joyously and free,

Or linger near the water side
In sweet security.

So when the Great Call comes some day,
A wondrous place you’ll ﬁnd

High up among the blessed ones,
If you are always kind.

 

' while the animal regained the lower shelf

and joined its comrades.

Incidentally, the ability to climb often
saves goats’ lives, for they can reach places
to which the cougar, their greatest enemy,
cannot follow.

Children Exhibit Pets

The annual pet show of the Children’s
Museum, Olmstead Park, Boston, was held
May 27. It was the largest exhibit in the
history of this ﬁne institution, more than
two hundred entries having been received.
Ribbon prizes were awarded for the best
cared-for pets and outstanding friendly re-
lations between pets and their owners. Miss
Ella A. Maryott of the American Humane
Education Society was one of the judges.

While no one really knows why migrating
geese ﬂy in wedge-shaped formation, it is
thought to be either because the powerful
wings of the leader make easier the pas-
sage of those behind, or that the wedge
formation enables each member of the ﬂock
to see better.

 

THERE IS NO CRUELTY IN CONFINING THESE GENTLE ANIMALS

 

IN CENTRAL PARK, NEW YORK

 

July, 1933
The Sanctity of Life

Radio address from station WIBO, during Be
Kind to Animals Week, by DR. ROBERT CLEMENTS,
Presbyterian Theological Seminary, Chicago.

T is one of the strange paradoxes of hu-

man nature that, fearful as so many are
of dying, yet we so readily turn to killing,
not only as an act of revenge, or even as a
protection, but as a pastime. When one
thinks of the marvel of life, it seems strange
that it should ever be wantonly taken from
anything. I remember so well one who

.would carefully lift a discarded ﬂower and

place it reverently aside, saying, “I cannot
bear to see so wonderful a creation, wonder-
ful in form, coloring and fragrance, won-
derful in the interrelation of part with
part, carelessly plucked or thoughtlessly
discarded.”

If one can feel so tenderly of a plant, how
much more of the animal creature? It
would seem as though all might feel with
Burns in his lines, “To a Mouse,”

“I’m truly sorry man’s dominion

Has broken nature’s social union,

An’ justiﬁes that ill opinion
Which makes thee startle

At me, thy poor earth-born companion
And fellow-mortal.”

Nevertheless, so often man seems unrea-
sonably cruel, and takes delight in tortur-
ing what cannot protect itself, or what he
is able to in any way dominate.

Certainly it is time well spent to incul-
cate a regard for and an appreciation of
that which has cost, and nothing costs more
than life. It is signiﬁcant that He of whom
it is said that He as our High Priest is
“touched with a feeling for our inﬁrmities”
had a concern for what we are pleased to
call the lower creatures. He spoke of the
lilies of the ﬁeld and the care: the
Father bestowed on them, of the birds of
the air and how tenderly mindful God was
of them, even of the sparrows, saying,
“Your Heavenly Father feedeth them.”

Little wonder, then, when we think of all
God’s care and plan and thought, He should
command, “Thou shalt not kill.” “Do no
murder” is another form of the Command—
ment. We are not to take life», any life,
carelessly, nor treat life, any life, cruelly.
It does not mean that life is never to be
taken under any circumstances, but never
heartlessly, selﬁshly, cruelly, unjustly, need-
lessly.

It is a good thing to be able to appreciate
and to con-serve values. An astounding
number of people go through life blind and
insensitive. It is always a matter of won-
der at the ruthless disregard of beauty,
and selﬁsh thoughtlessness that litters a
landscape, wrecks a work of art or ruins a
tree, a shrub or ﬂower; or kills a bird.
When one thinks of how he shrinks himself
from pain, it would seem as though he
would refrain naturally, inevitable, from
unnecessarily inﬂicting it. And yet the
depredation and destruction goes on.

What can be done to correct this tend-
ency and put in its place a regard for life
and its protection and preservation?

One phase of the answer is in the pro-
gram of this, “Be Kind to Animals Week.”
Something is gained by directing our atten-
tion to this tendency and to the thoughtless-
ness and unkindness it displays. Many not
cruel are simply thoughtless and once made

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 158

@112 Tﬁanh nf merry

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary
E. A. MARYOTT, State Organizer
PLEDGE
I will try to be kind to all living creatures and
try to protect them from cruel usage.

The American Humane Education Society Wlll send
to every person who forms a Band of Mercy of thirty
members, and sends the name chosen for the .Band and
the name and post-ofﬁce address of the pres1dent who
has been duly elected, special Band of Mercy literature

and a gilt badge for the president. '
See inside front cover for prlces of literature and

Band of Mercy supplies.
NEW BANDS OF MERCY

One hundred and seventy—one new Bands
of Mercy were reported during August.
Of these, 158 were in Illinois, seven in Syria,
ﬁve in Virginia, and one in Tennessee.

Total number Bands of Mercy organized
by Parent American Society, 196,355

Sunshine and Kindness

The “Kiddie Klub Kolumn,” a daily fea-
ture of the Mercury, Medford, Mass, car—
ries the motto, “Be Kind to Our Dumb Ani-
mals,” at the top of its columns. It reports
the doings of the “Daddy Sunshine Club”
which now has a membership of more than
4,000. Recently this enterprising newspaper
offered prizes to the boys and girls who
should write the best stories or poems about
their dogs, their cats, or any other pets.
This is an excellent idea for other papers
to take up in order to interest their young
readers in kindness to animals.

The Woodchopper and the
Ruffed Grouse

AST winter I made one very close
acquaintance with nature.

While chopping wood in a swamp a short
distance from home, I became aware of the
fact that a partridge had become unusually
friendly. As I was anxious to continue this
friendship, or I should say, make it stronger,
I started to bring food for the bird. It
soon became tame enough to allow me to
pick it up. It would follow me from place
to place much like a dog.

I told a few friends who love nature also
about this queer friendship. No one, how-
ever, would believe me till they saw me and
the bird together.

It is now two months since I became ac-
quainted with my feathered friend. Dur-
ing these weeks we have become greatly
attached to one another. She will appear
to me as soon as she hears the sound of my
axe in the woods.

Cameras have been taken into the woods,
and we have now, at my home, both still
pictures and “movies” of the bird with
which to convince doubtful friends who were
unable to make the trip into the swamp
and actually see the strange sight.

This incident has given me many thrills
and great pleasure; I am sure that any one
who could witness this phenomenon would
share my feeling.

JAMES N. ROOT, JR., ’33 in the Suﬁield

Alumni Quarterly

Be Kind to Animals Week will be cele—
brated next year April 16-21, with Humane
Sunday, April 15.

OUR

    

x

LITTLE “WHITE-FOOT”

 

The Chameleon Turn-coat
F. M. T A N N O N

HERE is one type of camouﬂage that

men have never duplicated. Probably
never will men perfect a device which can
change its color to suit its background. Yet,
in the little chameleon, Nature has an ani-
mal Which will change from green to gray
in order to blend harmoniously with the
background.

The powers of the little chameleon are
often exaggerated. He will not change to a
brilliant red or a deep purple as soon as
he is placed on such a colored background.
But, he will change to any color or shade
of green, blue, yellow or gray. The change
is slow, but the wonderful thing is that
the change is there! Almostwhile one
watches, the chameleon changes his outer
color, sometimes even going so far as to
change various spots and markings which
help to make him almost invisible against
his similar background.

The chameleon is a small lizard. He is
a quaint sight even without his color adapt-
ability. His eyes roll separately instead of
together the way they do on other animals.
Thus, he can see far to one side and straight
in front without turning his head. His tail
is his most active part and really quite
useful. He is a gentle, slow-moving crea-
ture, but when he is angry he puﬂ's up like
a balloon.

Can men ever hope to duplicate the cha-
meleon’s color-changing feat?

Bright Visitors
MARGARET E. BRUNER

With graceful and unstudied pose,
Two birds alighted on the lawn——
Their breasts, a brilliant hue of rose,
A blend of sunset-fire and dawn.

They paused to drink, then soared in ﬂight.
Their beauty thrilled me like the gleam
Of some long-sought celestial light
One glimpses only in a dream.

Though I may never chance to see
Their kind again, the vision stays
To lend a bit of cheer to me
Through winter’s dark and gloomy days.

DUMB ANIMALS

 

Oct. 1933

One of Nature’s Musicians
H. J. RENN

WILIGHT has come. The chickens have

gone to roost. The lights in the house
have been turned on. But—the radio is
silent.

Through the open window one of Nature’s
artists is sending notes as pure and sweet
as can be made. A mocking-bird, somewhere
in the shrubbery, is reveling in the beauty
of its own notes.

Have you ever been awakened in the dead
hours of the night, when everything else
was quiet and still, and heard the beautiful
notes of some mocking-birds outside your
window? Or did you know that you were
listening to mocking-birds?

Long before radio artists acquired fame,
the mocking-bird was recognized as a mu-
sician throughout most of the world. His
notes range the scale. One moment the
notes may be high and shrill, then soft and
low, then a note of sadness may arise, sud-
denly replaced by one of joy, as, with a
burst of music, he leaps into the air, then
settles back to his perch.

Unless you know the mocking-bird when
you hear him, you might be fooled into
thinking that you were listening to another
bird, for he can imitate many other birds.
It is understood that a mocking-bird has
been known to imitate over thirty different
birds in ten minutes.

If you want to see a real display of cour-
age, just watch anyone or anything ap-
proach the nest containing some young ones.
A sudden burst of scolding fury will be
after the intruder. The mother and daddy
birds love their little ones, and do not hesi-
tate to defend them. If we could just under-
stand bird talk, there is no telling what we
would hear at a time like that.

These nests may be found at various
places in the shrubbery, trees, woodpiles,
or fences, and at other places. Judging
from the way the nest is made, I wonder
if the birds do not have a knowledge of
the medicinal or insecticide traits of vari-
ous herbs and woods.

Do not kill these birds. When you see
boys shooting at them with air riﬂes and
bean shooters, tell them that the mocking-
birds destroy many insects that might do
harm to crops and fruits and vegetables.
What little of these things the birds eat,
they deserve for the good they do.

And, too, their singing in the trees and
shrubbery about the house is so musical,
so freely given, so care-free and joyous,
who is there who would not wish to protect
them and make them feel at home in the
yard?

Someone has stated that one of the sweet-
est songs ever heard was that of a mocking-
bird, singing, while the wind blew a gale,
and the ocean rolled upon the wreck-strewn
sand. In a time like that, who would not
appreciate a bird with the courage and en-
thusiasm to sing in the face of danger?

Birds of the air may be divided into
three classes as regards their powers of
ﬂight: those which use wings to trans-
port themselve-s from place to place (most
of our common birds), those that soar into
the sky to scan the country for their prey
(hawks), and those which feed as they ﬂy
(swallows, nighthawks) .

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 134

During the summer, when the bucks are
putting on heavy deposits of tallow, they
ramble very little, and are wholly at peace
with each other. Then, they are always
found within running distance of some
stream or lake to which they can go if
wounded or pursued. Flank deep in the
water a buck will make his last stand,
drowning a wolf with his feet or tearing
him with his horns.

Once established a buck will stick stub—
bornly to his locality, refusing to leave it
unless driven to dire extremities. If chased
he will run in wide circles which will bring
him back to where he started. Often they
will lie smugly in their beds while a hunter
passes within a few yards of them. Also
they will crouch in some thicket and watch
the eyes of a man, and the instant they know
they have been discovered they are gone
like a thunderbolt.

A buck never feeds close to one of his
beds. As twilight deepens into dusk he
leaves his retreat and comes cautiously to
the edge of the dense growth where he has
spent the day. There he hovers for a time,
tasting the air for warning odors and lis-
tening; for a deer can catch the snapping of
a twig by a cautious foot at a distance\of
several hundred yards.

Convinced that all is well, the buck moves
off at a rapid pace in the direction he has
chosen to feed that night. His choice always
includes a spring at which he may drink
twice before he hides for the next day. As
he leaves his bed the deer observes the strict-
est caution to hide his tracks by stepping
on stones, sods—anything which keeps a
print from being made, or he turns his hoofs
straight down and uses the points of them,
leaving a mark in the ground very much as
if one should press two ﬁngers into the dust.

Once on his feeding-ground the buck
throws off all such caution and literally
covers the locality with spoor as if he wished
it to be seen. But only a tyro would expect
to ﬁnd the buck anywhere near such an
exhibition of his existence. A buck, in the
summer time, is never very close to where
he makes a considerable number of tracks.
Usually he is located just where one is not
looking for him.

When approaching his bed—a different
one, of course—the deer will again use the
greatest caution in covering his footprints
in the manner already mentioned, so that
it is almost impossible to follow him to his
hiding place. But in late autumn all this
changes.

In September, or early October, certain
bucks seem to be selected by the others to
go forth and spy out the land. At such
times these mysterious ramblers will go far
from their summer retreats, visiting the
low, treeless foothills and settlements, the
trails and the passes, after which they van-
ish as suddenly as they came. This is a
very baffling bit of deer wisdom.

When a hunter comes very close and
drives a buck out of his hiding-place the
animal will dash away, keeping some tree,
or object between them, which generally
makes it impossible to secure a shot. When
followed till they are exhausted a group of
deer will scatter each for himself, a method
of escape used by all gangs of Western
outlaws.

No man is free while one for freedom
yearns. JOHN DRINKWATER

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Sept. 1933

The World’s Tallest Animal

ELIOT KAYS STONE

ﬁcult to convince anyone that such odd-

looking creatures could live and move
and have their being. Pictures of them
seem more like an artist’s caricature. These
African animals have been known for a
long time. Several of the ancient writers
mention them, and they are accurately out-
lined on the various monuments of ancient
Egypt.

Before the giraffe was thus named, it
was known as the camelopard. The earliest
mention I can ﬁnd of the giraffe under that
name is that by a certain Baumgarten, who
in Cairo, Egypt, in 1507, “on the 26th of
October, in that year, on looking out at a
window,” observed “the Ziraphus, the tall-
est creature that he ever beheld...” To
the Arabians this animal was a zowafa or
zaraf, which become “giraﬁa” or “giraffe”
in most European languages.

These singular-looking animals are well
adapted to the country in which they live
and are consequently well distributed
throughout the interior of South Africa.
The herds vary in numbers from twelve to
even thirty and forty individuals, but six-
teen may be take-n as the average. “These
herds,” Capt. Cumming asserts, “are com-
posed of giraffes of various sizes, from the
young giraffe of nine or ten feet in height,
to the dark chestnut—colored old bull of the
herd, whose exalted head towers above his
companions, generally attaining to a height
of upwards of eighteen feet. The females
are of lower stature, and more delicately
formed than the males, the height ave-rag-
ing from sixteen to seventeen feet.”

Their markings, so conspicuous in a cir-
cus-tent or on a city street or a treeless
plain, are what render them inconspicuous
in their native forests, and are a remark-
able example of what naturalists of today
call “protective coloring,” or the scheme of
coloring that renders an animal not easily
seen in its natural environment. So well
adapted to tree-grazing is the giraffe that
it can only reach the grass to crop it by
spreading apart its front legs.

The giraffe is a dainty and fastidious
feeder, preferring the leaves of the Kameel-
dorn or camel-thorn (Acacia, giraﬂa-e), to
any other. It most carefully rejects every
thorn, and plucks with its tongue only the
greenest and tenderest leaves. In captivity,
when furnished cut-grass, it devours but
one blade at a time, nibbling it daintily
from tip to stem, and casting aside all but
the tenderest portion. It is also fed hay,
carrots, onions, and other vegetables. Its
long, slender, prehensile and contractile
tongue is admirably adapted for procuring
its favorite food. It is so ﬂexible that the gi-
raffe can thrust the tip of it into a tiny hole.
It is very fond of exercising its tongue,
which sometimes proved embarrassing in
the days when ladies adorned their hats
or bonnets with artiﬁcial ﬂowers, fruits,
and vegetables, as the giraffe seized these-
objects. A giraffe frequently pulls out a
hair from the mane or tail of a companion
and swallows it inch by inch—a rather dif—
ﬁcult accomplishment as the hair of a camel-
opard is often four feet long.

Sir Samuel Baker agrees with Capt.
Cumming in that “there is no animal so pic-

]IF giraﬁ'es did not exist, it would be dif-

 

THE GIRAFFE BROWSING

turesque in his native haunts...” He fur-
ther informs us that the hoof 'is as beauti-
fully proportioned as that of the smallest
gazelle and his lengthy legs and short back
give him every advantage for speed and
endurance.

The natives not only hunt the animal,
but dig pits for it. These are about ten
feet deep and proportionately wide, with a
wall or bank of earth six or seven feet in

,height bisecting them. When a giraﬁe

breaks through the material covering the
pit, it lands upon its belly on this wall, and
is thus suspended from the ground and can-
not possibly escape. The meat is good, and
the Hottentots hunt the giraffe for its mar-
row which is esteemed as a delicacy. Its
skin is very thick, and makes excellent
leather. From the leaves on which it feeds
it gives off a scent which Capt. Cumming
compares to that of a hive of heather honey.

Gentle and tractable as the giraffe is in
captivity, revealing a real affection for its
keeper, it is not helpless before its enemies,
keeping its head high and raining such
swift and deadly blows with its hoofs that
even the lion shrinks from the encounter,
unless able to catch the animal unaware,
when its superior strength and ferocity
overpower the giraffe.

While the front legs of the giraffe appear
to be so much longer than the hind ones,
they are really of the same length. It is
the great elongation of the shoulder-bone
which so elevates the back in front. The
neck, though extremely long, has but seven
vertebrae, the usual number; these how-
ever, are tremendously elongate-d. The two
horns which add to their grotesque appear-
ance are not true horns, but bone develop-
ments, “some-what similar to the bony cores
on which the hollow horns of the oxen and
antelopes are set.” They are covered with
skin and each is tipped with a tuft of dark
hair.

People who should know claim that the
giraffe is “a silent animal,” uttering no
cry even in the throes of death.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 
 
 
 
  
    
  

Entered as second-class matter

01. AN

u U. S.Trade Mark,Regi5tered \

GEL-L ‘N 1868.AND FOR FORD/”ONE

The Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

The American Humane Education Society

The American Band of Mercy

I would not enter on my list of friends,
Though graced with polished manners and ﬁne sense,
Yet wanting sensibility, the man
Who needlessly sets foot upon a worm.
—COWPER

 

  

Kmouass,'Jus1’|cE
AND Mencv T'O‘
EVERY mea
CREATURE.

    
   
   
  

Published monthly by the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood, Massachusetts

Acceptance for mailing at special ra

, June 29, 1917, at the Post Ofﬁce at Norwood, Mass., under the Act of March 3, 1879
te of postage prov1ded for in section 1103, Act of October 3, 1917, authorized, July 13, 1919

Boston Ofﬁce, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

‘VOL 66

Canada reports 3,115,532 horses, the aver-
age number per farm 5.3 as compared with
5.7 in 1921.

Do you know that there are nearly twice
as many men under arms in Europe as be-
fore the Great War?
mortals be.”

The Royal S. P. C. A. of Great Britain
has recently opened Memorial Dispensary
to perpetuate the memory of the animals
and birds whose lives were sacriﬁced in the
Great War.

Sir John French states that it was com-
puted that 5,000 horses a day were being
put out of action at least in the early part
of the War in 1915, and on all fronts the
number of horses was estimated to be at
least a million.

We greatly regret to learn from the last
issue of that valuable little French publica-
tion, La Protection des Animaux, that it is
to be discontinued for lack of the necessary
funds to carry it on. It has always been a
welcome exchange.

The Animal World tells us that in Europe
at least the circus is becoming a thing of
the past. Ten years ago there were 48 in
Germany, now only eight. It further says,
“The continued existence of another circus
is now in the balance, as its recent tour in
Holland has failed, largely owing to the
work of the Dutch Jack London Club.”

Beginning with the March issue we shall
publish a series of very interesting articles
on “The Squirrel Tribe,” by Mr. Walter A.
Dyer whose contributions to Our Dumb Ani-
mals are always a treat. Mr. Dyer was for
several years managing editor of Country
Life in America, and he is the author of
many books, several of which deal with dogs.
If you are interested in gray squirrels, red
squirrels, and chipmunks, don’t fail to read
the three articles which will appear in the
March, April and May numbers, respec-
tively.

 

“What fools these‘

February,1933

The Centuries or the Hours
To Which Are You Listening?

MERSON once bade men listen to the

centuries rather than to the hours.
To which are we listening today when
we think of the lot of that vast world of
animal life for unnumbered ages subjected
to the good and evil treatment of man-
kind? Under what staggering burdens of
pain and woe, of brutality and torture have
they wended their way from the dawn of
history. Few the voices to plead their cause
until little more than a hundred years ago.
Read the records of empires dead and bur-
ied beneath the sands of deserts thousands
of years ago, learn how cheap even human
life seemed in those far-OE days and imag-
ine what the lot of animals was. True there
has doubtless always been the exceptional
human soul loving the companionship of
horse or dog, or grateful to the ox or ass
which had served him. Many are the evi-
dences of this. But to the vast majority of
men the animal has been but a creature
made to serve his will or pleasure no mat—
ter at what cost to the creature itself. Think
of those countless cruelties—your imag-
ination cannot even conceive the appalling
mass of suffering endured for aeons by the
animals of the world.

And What do the hours tell us to-
day? That in many a land cruelty still
tracks the footsteps of life’s lowly chil—
dren, still swings the lash and grips the
prod, still counts the sufferings of myriads
of cattle, sheep and swine as of little worth
in blood-stained shambles; yet over against
the crying of the hours listen to the voice
of the centuries. A thousand crimes against
animal life to which once men were indif-
ferent are now forbidden in every land
called civilized. Yes, say the centuries, just
as no longer slavery is the common lot of
men, just as no longer emperor or king can
hold a power of life or death over millions
of his subjects, so no longer is the story
of beast and bird one of almost universal
hardship and pain.

Look at a map of the world. On more than
a thousand places you can place your ﬁnger

P¢0.2

today and say, “Here a society for protec-
tion of animal life has sprung into being.
Millions of people have become members
of these societies, millions of money have
been given to soften the lot of toiling and
tormented animals. Into thousands of
schools apostles of humane education have
gone with their message of justice and com-
passion toward all life, of peaceand gOOd
will among men. More and more over the
Whole world is this humane education
moulding millions of the world’s youth.”
Measured by the hours of yesterday or to-
day the progress may seem slow. “Wonder-
ful,” say the centuries, “if you summon us
to tell our story, has this progress been.”

Oh, ye Toilers for life’s better days, for
peace instead of war, for human brother-
hood instead of prejudice and hate, for good
will among the nations instead of selﬁsh
nationalism, for justice and compassion to-
ward men and beast—listen to the Gen-
turies and not to the Hours!

The Human Side

One of our most devoted and efﬁcient hu-
mane education workers Visiting schools in
a New England state, writes, “I received
a letter yesterday from one of the most re-
mote, forlorn, poverty—stricken, utterly un-
privileged group of school children I ever
saw, and the teacher wrote to tell me how
deeply interested the children were in try-
ing to do for their animals and that since
I was there they had been trying to patch
up their pitiful little barns. It is into such
places as this that the beautiful literature
and pictures from the Society make their
way. This is work the angels might long to
do. The schools themselves are good, the
teachers true to their New England con-
sciences and unusually full of kindness, too.”

Our readers’ attention is called to the
two bills relating to animals that have been

introduced into the legislature this year,

copies of which appear on page 24.




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 112

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Echoes of Be Kind to Animals Week

mane Education Society distributed

the special national Be Kind to Ani-
mals colored posters in large quantities and
generally contributed largely to the success
of the celebration in their respective states:
Vermont, Pennsylvania, Illinois, Virginia,
South Carolina, Tennessee, Georgia, Texas,
Washington and California.

The National Congress of Parents and
Teachers announced the Week in their ofﬁ-
cial Bulletin and sent out notices of it, call-
ing attention to the suggestive leaﬂet by
Mrs. Jennie R. Nichols, national chairman
of humane education, and referring local
associations to the American Humane Edu-
cation Society, Boston, for additional pro-
gram material.

Mrs. M. R. L. Freshel, president of the
Millennium Guild, spoke on “Richard Wag-
ner as a Humanitarian” at the Assembly
Rooms, 56 East 56th Street, New York,
April 22, and before the pupils of the Max-
well Training School for Teachers, Brook-
lyn, April 28.

Mrs. Harriet S. Heineman 0f the Lan—
caster County Humane Society, Pa., gave
a humane broadcast from WEEU, Reading,
on Tuesday, and another from WKJ C, Lan-
caster, on Wednesday of Be Kind to Ani-
mals Week, in addition to supplying posters
and leaﬂets to the schools.

The Women’s Pennsylvania S. P. C. A.,
Philadelphia, placed 500 posters in schools,
moving picture theaters and store windows
in the city, and had an appropriate program
on their weekly radio broadcast. On Satur-
day the Society, With the Young American
Humane Union, gave a children’s party at
their headquarters, 916 Spruce Street, when
prizes were given to the winners of story
and poster contests, open to children un-
der 16, sponsored by the two organizations.

In Washington, D. C., an intensive pro-
gram was carried out by the Animal Relief
and Humane Education League under the
direction of Miss Virginia W. Sargent, pres-
ident, who gave an address on Humane
Sunday. More than 1,200 Morgan Dennis
posters, “Lost and Found,” were distributed
throughout the Capital, while 200 street
cars of the city bore special large-lettered
Signs emphasizing Humane Week.

Mrs. Jennie R. Toomim, ﬁeld worker of
the American Humane Education Society,
received a letter from Governor Henry
Horner, in which he said: “The splendid

FIELD workers of the American Hu-

 

 

 

 

purposes of your organization deserve sup-
port and encouragement. Through the ac-
tivities of your Society, and associated
groups, our children and our citizens are
inspired to attain the higher ideals of hu—
manitarians. Kindness and justice to ani-
mals always manifest the twin virtues of
sympathy and understanding.” A joint let-
ter from Mrs. Toomim, Mrs. Charlotte L.
Hunt, president of the Chicago Humane Ed-
ucation Society, and Mrs. Julia M. Baldwin
of the Chicago and Cook County Federation
of Women’s Clubs, was sent to all the Clubs
in the vicinity. Daily broadcasts by out-
standing citizens were given on station
WIBO, and 150,000 school children were-
reached by a special letter with an outline
program for humane exercises.

Under the direction of the state chair-
man of humane education, Mrs. Dorothy H.
Krahl, there was an unusual exhibit at the
convention of the Illinois Congress of Par-
ents and Teachers, at Danville, April 19-21.
A large placard bore the legend: “Humane
Education is the Basis for World Peace.”
Many original posters were shown and vari-
ous leaﬂets were distributed freely. Three
hundred registered for the ready-to—use
program and free monthly Humane Educa-
tion Message for use in Parent—Teacher
circles.

Seymour Carroll of Columbia, S. C., re-
ports that the Governor of that state issued
a proclamation for Humane Week, that
Mayor Owens of Columbia gave out a state-
ment in behalf of the cause, that a radio
program was presented over station WIS,
Columbia; and that many newspapers in
South Carolina featured the message of
kindness to animals. The Associated Negro
Press of Chicago carried a news release
giving plans for the national celebration.

The local S. P. C. A. in Greenville, S. C.,
offered prizes for the best stories on the
subject, “Why We Should Be Kind to Ani-
mals,” in two classes, one for those below
18 years of age, and one for those above.
The Observer of that city carried an ex-

cellent editorial.

Mrs. Katherine Weathersbee, ﬁeld worker
in Georgia, assisted in planning celebrations
for ﬁve cities, secured three radio speakers,
and helda humane education exhibit at the
Georgia Congress of Parents and Teachers.
She conducted the largest kindness to ani-
mals poster contest eve-r held in Georgia,
the ﬁfth Parent-Teacher district winning
the Francis H. Rowley trophy. The Au-

 

 

TO OUR FRIENDS

In makmg your _will, kindly bear in mind that the corporate title of our Society is “The
Massachusetts Socrety for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals”; that it is the second
incorporated (March, 1868) Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals in the country
and that it has no connection with any other similar Society. ,

Any bequest especially intended for the beneﬁt of the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital
should, nevertheless, be made to The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty

to Animals “for the use of the Hospital” as the Hos ' ' ' '
. , pital IS not incor orated but 15 th
property of that Soc1ety and is conducted by it. p e

FORM OF BEQUEST

I give to Ihe Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruel t A °
. ty 0
to The American Humane Education Society), the sum of nlmals (or

dollars (or, if other property), describe the property).

 

 

July, 1933

gusta (Ga.) Humane Society sponsored an
intensive campaign in the schools of Rich-
mond County where a program was carried
out in every class-room and a written ex-
pression of kindness received from each pu-
pil. The Troup County Humane Society,
Emory R. Park, president, LaGrange, Ga.,
exhibited the “Bell of Atri” ﬁlm before
4,779 children, representing nearly all the
schools, both white and colored, in the
county.

Theo. D. Meyer, director of the Eve Meyer
Foundation for Humane Education, Hous-
ton, Texas, presented several programs
over station KTRH, arranged for exercises
in the city branch libraries, including pre-
sentation of a dog statue to the Carnegie
on North Side, of a new pedestal for the
bird statue at the Heights, and of book-
ends of dog design to the Colored branch.

We are pained to announce the death of
Mrs. F. W. Swanton, general manager of
the Oregon Humane Society, Portland, at
her home in that city, May 30. She was one
of the ablest humane workers in the country
and numbered a host of friends.

IN MEMORIAM

In Memory of Pauline Tingley. Faithful
and loving companion and friend.

She had a sweet, but timid disposition.
Her coat was long, ﬁne and soft as silk;
her markings were beautiful. Her eyes
blended in color with that of her coat.

She was born in Framingham, Mass.,
August 6, 1916.

She passed away at her home in Boston,
May 3, 1933.

She was the Prize Winner of many Blue
Ribbons, beginning in the Kitten Class, at
The Boston Cat Club (Short-haired Tawny
Tabby Class).

“Spare puss who trusts us, purring on our hearth.

“The beasts of the ﬁeld cry to Thee and Thou
hearest them.” Inspiration

“Animals surpass many human beings in love, un-
selﬁshness, generosity, conscience, and self-sacriﬁce.”

REV. J. G. WOOD

“There is a current of thought from the beginning
to the end of the Bible, which either expresses or
implies that animals share with man immortal life.”

Solomon says: “That which befalleth the sons of
men befalleth beasts; as the one dieth, so dieth the
other; yea they have all one breath, so that a man
hiath no pre-eminence above a beast. All go to one
p ace.”

Christ said: “Inasmuch as ye have done it unto
the least of these, ye have done it unto me.”

Dedicated to her memory by Dr. Louisa
Paine Tingley.

Our Dumb Animals

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston ofﬁce; 180 Longwood Avenue.

Address all communications to Boston.

TERMS

One dollar per year. Postage free to any part of
the world.

Humane Societies and Agents are invited to cor-

 

respond with us for terms on large orders.

. All dollar subscriptions sent direct to the ofﬁce en-
title the sender to membership in either of our two
Societies.

RATES OF MEMBERSHIP IN
THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
OR THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. .A.
Active Life $100 00 Active Annual $10 00
Assoc1ate Life 50 00 Associate Annual 5 00

Sustaining 20 00 Annual 1 00
Children’s $0.75

Checks and other payments may be sent to ALBERT

A. POLLARD, Treasurer, 180 Longwood Avenue,
Boston.

Manuscripts should be addressed to the Editor,
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

Page 40

Our Dumb Animals

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston ofﬁce; 180 Longwood .Av-
enue, Boston, Mass., to which all communications
should be addressed.

Dr. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON, Editor
WILLIAM M. MORRILL, Assistant

MARCH, 1933

 

FOR TERMS, see back cover.

AGENTS to take orders for Our Dumb Animals are
wanted everywhere. Liberal commissions are offered.

EDITORS of all periodicals who receive this pub-
lication this month are invited to reprint any of the
articles with or Without credit.

MANUSCRIPTS relating to animals, particularly
prose articles of about three hundred words, are solic-
ited. We do not wish to consider prose manuscripts
longer than 800 words, nor verse in excess of thirty-
six lines. The shorter the better. All manuscripts
should be typewritten and an addressed envelope with
full return postage enclosed with each offering.

 

 

Your Cat

F lovers of cats would prevent where pos—
H sible the needless multiplication of these
rapidly breeding animals, and keep their
own pets from early morning bird—hunting
during the nesting—season of birds, there
would be far fewer complaints made through
the public press against the bird-destroying
cat. Save one out of the litter if you must.
Humanely let the rest go to sleep in a
closely-covered bucket of lukewarm water.
They will never know that they have been
born. It isn’t always pleasant to do this,
but it is a genuine kindness in the vast ma-
jority of cases. Many a lover of his cat
takes it out in the morning when nesting-
time arrives and never lets it out of his
sight. Why not do our utmost to save the
birds and at the same time disarm the
enemies of the cat who attack him with the
exaggerated statements they make about
his destructive habits? It’s cats born in the
country and kept about barns and stables
that so largely become the roaming, half-
wild bird hunters that are the birds’ worst
enemies, next to man.

Just Another Hero Dog

A tiny, vagrant, mongrel dog, scarcely

 

:a year and a half old and known as

“Toots,” saved the lives of twelve men
asleep in a burning bunkhouse near Pitts-
burg recently. Her warning barks aroused
the only friends she had in time for them
to make their escape. The building was
destroyed. Toots was deserted. The only
home she had ever known was gone. The
outlook for Toots, if she had one, must have
been trying to her stout little heart. But
better days were just around the corner.
The news of what she had done quickly
spread. Mr. W. F. H. Wentzel, secretary
of the Humane Society, went to her rescue
and a few days later gave her a hero’s
collar. But it was a home that the little
outcast needed most. How well she had
earned one was proved when more than
three hundred offers were made for her.
She was happily placed in a home in the
suburbs at which time the papers called
her “the city’s most popular dog.”

Remember the Massachusetts S. P. C. A.

in your will.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Cruelty on the Screen

A writer in The Animals’ Friend very
wisely says, “It is usually a very simple
matter to convince anyone that these
‘jungle’ ﬁlms (like “Bring ’Em Back Alive”)
are either wholly or partly faked, and once
this point is made it is easy to show that
captive, and not wild, animals must have
been used and therefore that cruelty must
have been employed for ‘punch’ scenes in
the faked portions.” Writing of this, Mr.
H. M. Tomlinson is quoted in The New
Clarion as saying:

“It left me cold. My knowledge of the
creatures of Malaya tells me that they walk
by night, and then with great stealth. For
this ﬁlm, however, they obliged in full day-
light. Tigers and leopards strolled about in
the open, and entered traps, obviously not
far from human habitations in clearings of
the forest, but they fought each other con-
tinuously while the camera was there and
in the best of situations for a shot. Another
python fought a tiger which I can only
suppose must have been weak in the head
to do it, for he came back to the coils after
he had broken away. Why? Perhaps he
was kind; perhaps he was a fool. A black
leopard ﬁghts a tiger and lives afterwards;
or seems to. I wonder! I noticed that once
the hunters went out hunting by torchlight;
an unusual procedure. We used to make a
ﬂare to keep the beasts away.”

MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A. IN THE
COURTS

Summary of Prosecutions in January

For keeping and training game cocks for
ﬁghting a defendant was ﬁned $19, as costs.
Ten other persons, for being present where
preparations were being made for the exhi-
bition of ﬁghting birds, were convicted and
ﬁned $20 each. The cocks were adjudged
forfeited and ordered destroyed. ,

One having charge and custody of eleven
head of stock and two hogs, was found
guilty of failing to provide same with
proper food, drink, shelter and protection
from the weather. He was ﬁned $50, sus-
pended, plus $7 as costs.

Overcrowding and cruelly transporting
fowl after a previous warning, on plea of
nolo, ﬁne $10.

For starving hogs a defendant was con-
victed in lower court and ﬁned $10. Upon
appeal he was acquitted by jury and dis-
charged.

For failing to stop after running over
and injuring a dog and subjecting it to un-
necessary suffering, offender was ﬁned $20
and given a week to pay.

Non-sheltering hogs, defendant pleaded
nolo, paid costs of $14.90 and was put on
probation for two months.

Cruelly beating a dog, offender ﬁned $20
End committed to jail for non—payment of

ne.

Cruelly shooting dog, offender convicted
and put on three months’ probation. Gun
was ordered conﬁscated.

For transporting cattle in an unneces-
sarily cruel and inhuman manner a defend-
ant was ﬁned $25.

For over-crowding fowl an offender was
ﬁned $10. .

Upon an application for disposal of a

vic1ous and diseased dog the court ordered

animal destroyed, with no value.

Be Kind to Animals Week, April 17-22;
Humane Sunday, April 23, 1933.

Mar. 1933

THE MASSACHUSETTS SOCIETY FOR THE

PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS

Founded by Geo. T. Angell. Incorporated March, 1868
See page 45 for complete list of ofﬁcers

MONTHLY REPORT OF OFFICERS

See page 42 for complete list of prosecuting ofﬁcers

Miles traveled by humane ofﬁcers. 10,555

Cases investigated .............. 598
Animals examined .............. 7,891
Number of prosecutions .......... 27
Number of convictions .......... 26
Horses taken from§work ......... , 21
Horses humanely put to sleep . . . . 56
Small animals humanely put to
sleep ........................ 533
Stock-yards and Abattoirs
Animals inspected .............. 34,019
Cattle, swine and sheep humanely
put to sleep .................. 12

The Massachusetts Society for the Pre-
vention of Cruelty to Animals has been re-
membered in the wills of Robert Neil Har-
vey of Waltham, Mary E. Merritt of Brook-
line, Marion E. Baker of Brookline, Henry
W. Ordway of Lowell, Cyrus W. Lane of
Townsend, and Marion Frank Gilbert of
Boston.

February 14, 1933

HOSPITAL REPORT FOR JANUARY
Including Springﬁeld Branch

See page 42 for complete list of members of Hospital

sta
Hospital Dispensary
Cases entered 710 Cases 2,442
Dogs 526 Dogs 1,940
Cats 175 Cats 452
Birds 5 Birds 42
Horses 3 Horses 4
Rabbit 1 Monkeys 3
Operations 1,004 Turtle 1
Hospital cases since opening, Mar.
1, 1915 ........................ 108,614
Dispensary Cases ................ 240,559
Total .......................... 349,173

Humane Education

Educators have declared that nothing is
so important in the development of the
child as Humane Education. “Kindness to
animals is not mere sentiment,” says the
American Journal of Education, “but a
requisite of even a very ordinary education.
Nothing in arithmetic or grammar or any
branch of study is so important for a child
to learn as humaneness.” The author of
“Literae Humaniores” asserts that “It is a
mockery to talk of religion, and art, and
“humane letters” if we allow the gentle-
ness, which alone can give vitality to these
accomplishments, to be poisoned at its
source by the festering plague of cruelty.”
“The supreme test of an education,” says
Joy Elmer Morgan, “is one’s appreciation
of the feelings of other living things.”

The Women’s Humane Club of Southern
“California.

Through man’s unhappiness comes his
greatness. Without sorrow there can be no
sympathy, and it is with sympathy that
the wounds of the cruel world are stanched.

STEPHEN COLERIDGE

 




 

 

 

 

FREE Write for

BOOKLET N0. N—58-l

on the practical re-

moval of Worms in

Dogs of all breeds
and ages.

NEMA
WORM
CAPSULES

ﬂeetioely remove

Large Roun worms and Hookworms

The safe, easy-to-give worm treatment.
Dependable. For free booklet WRITE T0

PARKE, DAVIS & CO.

Der/e N—58-I Animal Indurtry Dept? Detroit, Mich.
— Drug Stores Sell Parke-Dams Products. —

   
     
  

For

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

H. C. HAM
J. L. HAM
A. L. HAM
PAPER

10 High Street, Boston

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  
 

Actually
rnrs
’ FLEAS

Instead of
Stupelying
Them

PULVEX-ING your dog or cat
kills all the ﬂeas, lice, mites, and
keeps new ones off for days.
Harmless even if swallowed. Non-
irritating. Odorless. Used by over
a million dog owners. Guaran-
teed to satisfy you or your money
back. Sold by drug stores, pet
shops, 50 cents, or direct

William Conner & Nephews, Inc.
Deptlllﬂll, 1925 Clifton Av.,l2lricagn

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THIS SPACE
CONTRIBUTED

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Established l 868

JAMES FORGIE’S Sons

17 Merchants Row
Boston, Mass.
HARNESS.

ENGLISH SADDLERY, AND
EVERYTHING FOR THE HORSE

 

 

 

 

 

Humane literature and Band of Mercy Supplies

For sale by the American Humane Education Society and the Massachusetts S. P. C. A.,

180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass, at these prices, postpaid.

Titles in bold—face type are of books or booklets

Our Dumb Animals, 1932, bound volume $1.00

Our Dumb Animals, January to_ Decem-
ber, 1929, and 1931, bound in cloth,
special, each ............ . ..........

Colored Posters, 17x28 Inches, .w1th
attractive pictures and verses, SIX 1n
the set

.75

........................... $1.00
Be Kind to Animals Blotters, 6%x3%..$0.50 per 100

About the Horse

Black Beauty (English), cloth, 45 cents; paper, 20 cts.

The Shame of it—Mutilating the horse
by setting up his tail. Dr. Rowleys
protest against this cruelty for fash-

ion’s sake. Four illus., 4 pp . Free

What Constitutes Cruelty, Francis H.
Rowley
Humane Horse Book, 32 pp., 5 cts.
each, or .. .........................
The Horse—Treatment of Sores, Dis-

“

............................ $0.30 per 100

6‘

eases, etc. ........................... .60 :: ::
Humane Education Leaﬂet, No. 5 ...... .50 ﬂ “
The Horse’s Prayer ................... .30 “ “
The Bell of Atri, poem by Longfellow .. .50 “ “
The Care of Mules .................... .50

About the Dog

Beautiful Joe, new, illus.. $1.50 ........ small, 50 cts.

istemper in Dogs, Dr. Schneider ..... ree
Rabies vs. Running Fits. Dr. Schneider Free

Eulogy on the Dog, by Vest, post-card . $1.00 per 100

The Dog—Its care in Health and Disease .60

Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 3 and 4 .50 “
What the Chained Dog Says ............ .50 ”
The Story of Barry ................... .30 “

About the Bird

‘6

,’

(‘

‘6

The Birds of God, 318 pp., illus, ....... cloth, $0.45
The Trial of the Birds, play .......... $2.00 per 100
Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 1 and 2 .50 “ “
How the Birds Help the Farmer ........ .50 “
The Air—gun and the Birds ............ .50 “

About the Cat

The Cat—Its Care in Health and Disease $0.60 per
Surplus Cats .......................... .50 “
The Cat in Literature ................. .50 “
Do Not Leave Your Cat to Starve ...... .50 “
“The Beggar Cat,” post-card, 6 cts. per

doz. ......... ' ....................... .50 “

About Other Animals

Prince Rudolf’s Quest, Kenniston, 150

pp., special .boards, 50

The Strike at Shane’s cloth, 30 cts. ..paper, 7
For Pity’s Sake . ................... paper, 15
Michael Brother of Jerry, Jack London, cloth, 75
Jack London Club Poster, 22 x 32 inches,

one for 15 cts., two for 25 cts., ﬁve or

more . .. ........................ each, 10
First Aid to Animals, Dr. Schneider, 8 pp. $1.00 per
What is the Jack London Club? 0 “
Foreword from “Michael Brother of

Jerry” ..... .. .. . ............. .
Gripped in the Teeth of Steel, 2 pp. 1.00 “
How to Kill Animals Humanely, 4 pp. 1.00 “
Humane Education Leaﬂet, No. 6, Ani-

mals . ........................... .50 “
Humane Education Leaﬂet, No. 7, Farm
Animals ............................ .50 “

‘6

cts.
cts.
cts.
cts.

cts.
100

About Other Animals—Continued
Ways of Kindness ..................... $0.50 per 100
Why the Toad is so Useful ............ .30 “ “
Humane Education

The Humane Bulletin, for use in schools, '

96 pp. .................. 12 cents each; ten for $1.00
Care and Kindness for Our Animal

Friends, 29 pp., paper covers, many

illus. ................ 15 cents each ; seven for $1.00
Kindness Picture Book, 32 pp.

15 cents each ; seven for $1.00

The Teacher’s Helper in Humane Edu-

cation, 2 pp. ......................

umane Education—for Parents and

Teachers, 20 pp. .................... each, 10 cts.
Picture Lesson Cards, each, 10 cts., set

of eight ............................
“Be Kind to Animals” pennants

each, 10 cts.

35 cts.
each, 25 cts.

“Be Kind to Animals” placards ..... each, 3cts.
The Humane Idea, Dr. Francis H.

Rowley ................ cloth, 35 cts. ; paper, 15 cts.
Friends and Helpers (selections for

school use), Sarah J. Eddy ......... cloth, 96 cts.
Animals as Seen by the Poets, Guy

Richardson, 32 pp. ...... cloth, 35 cts. ; paper, 10 cts.
Address to Boston Public Schools ...... $2.00 per 100
Lessons on Kindness to Animals ....... 3 00 “ “

The B——K—T—A Club, play . . .3 cts. each; ten for 25c.
Fred Changes His Mind, play, 5cts.each;six for 25c.
“And a Little Child Shall Lead Them,”
play ..................... 3 cts. each ; six for 15 cts.
Friends of Fur and Feather, play,
3 cts. each ; ten for 25 cts.
Humane Day in Schools, with class-room
project, 8 pp. ......................
Exercises for Humane Day, 1933 ......
Humane Education the Vital Need, Dr.
Rowley, short’rradio address, 3 cts. each; 1.50 “ “
Our Little Brothers and Sisters, sermon
for boys and girls, by Dr. Jefferson,
4 pp. ............................. .50 “ “
Humane Education, What to Teach and

$2.00 per 100
2.00 ‘( “

How to Teach It. .................. .50 “ “
Early Lessons in Kindness or Cruelty .. .50 “ “
Outlines of Study in Humane Education,

8 pp. .............................. 1.50 “ “
A Talk with the Teacher .............. .50 “ “

Our Love for Animals, a short radio

address . . . . . . , . . 5 cts. each; 2.50 “ -“
A Festival of Tender Mercies .......... .50 “ “
The Coming Education ............. .30 “ “
A Great Prophecy, Dr. Rowley ....... . . Free
American College Presidents and the

American Humane Education Society. Free

Band of Mercy
“Be Kind to Animals” Buttons, three
styles—Band of Mercy, Humane So-
ciety, or S. P. C. A. ................
Buttons—white star on blue ground with
gilt letters and border, one cent each 1.00 “ “
Badges, gold ﬁnish, large, 10 cts. ...... small, 5 cts.

$1.00 per 100

“Band of Mercy” Pennant ............ 35 cts.
Songs of Happy Life, with Music, S.

J. Eddy ......................... 50 cts.
Songs of Happy Life (56 pages, words

only) ............................... $3.00 per 100
Band of Mercy Membership Card ...... .50 “ “
How to Form Bands of Mercy ....... 50 “ “

Does it Pay, story of one Band of Mercy .30 “ “

Please enclose remittance with orders for less than $1

AMERICAN HUMAN E EDUCATION SOCIETY, 180 Longwood Ave., Boston, Mass.

 

 

l

 

180 Longwood Avenue

 

 

Cuticura Refreshing and
Shaving non-irritating

Cream even when used

tw1ce daily.
At your dealers or sent on recei t f 35 .
t Address: “Cuticura," Dept. 22B, Mgltlen, Nlass. ’
III-IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII

THE BELL OF ATRI

The most widely distributed Humane Film ever produced

Reduced rates for rentals until October 1, 1933

AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY

Boston, Mass.

 

 

 

Since 1 832

J. S. WATERMAN & SONS, INC.

Entertainers

BOSTON—BROOKLIN‘E—CAMBRIDGE
City and Out-of-Town Service

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




  
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 

0,1. ANGE

mb

LL m 1868,AND FOR FORTy.

\l

The Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

The American Humane Education Society

The American Band of Mercy

I Would not enter on my list of friends,
Though graced with polished manners and ﬁne sense,
Yet wanting sensibility, the man
Who needlessly sets foot upon a worm.
—COWPER

Published monthly by the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals,

Entered as second-class matter, June 29, 1917, at the Post Ofﬁce at Norwood, Mass.,
Acceptance for mallmg at speCIal rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of 0c

U. S.Trade Mark, Registered \

  

GOD

I
PEACE on EARTH,

AND Meacv Toe
EVERY leme
CREATURE.

  

 

46 Central Street, Norwood, Massachusetts

under the Act of March 3, 1879
tober 3, 1917, authorized, July 13, 1919

Boston Ofﬁce, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

‘Vol 66

A petition of over 300,000 names has
been presented to the British House of Com-
mons asking for the prohibition of the pro-
posed dental experiments on dogs about
which so much has been said during the
last year. ‘

A branch of the Performing and Captive
Animals Defence League of England has
just been formed in Dublin. This League
is hard after the exploiter of animals both
on the stage and in the motion picture
business.

The tablet on the Animals’ War Memorial
Dispensary, whose dedication we mentioned
last month, “records the death of 484,000
horses, mules, camels and bullocks and many
hundreds of carrier pigeons and other crea-
tures on the various fronts during the
Great War.”

We are glad ,to learn from Anima-ldom,
published by the Pennsylvania S. P. C. A.,
that bills are to be introduced in the Penn-
sylvania Legislature this year to prohibit
the use of live birds for targets at shoot-
ing matches and also to stop the cropping
of dogs’ ears.

“Feed the Birds,” the Audubon Society
says repeatedly. So do we. Now is the time

the winter birds, the juncos, the tree sparr
rows, myrtle warblers, nuthatches, a few

. bobwhites and ruffed grouse need our care
far more than in the summer time when
food is more easily found. We will gladly
send a leaﬂet telling how to help the birds
through these trying months if you will
write us.

A Bill is before Congress enabling the
President, under certain conditions, to pro-
hibit the shipment of arms or munitions of
war to countries that might use them in
settling international difﬁculties. Better not
ship these deadly things at all. We all know
of munition companies that have sought to
stir up strife between nations in order to
sell them guns and ammunition. A pretty
dastardly business.

 

hdareh,l933

Our Bill against Setting up

Horses’ Tails

HE above Bill, which appeared in the

February issue of this magazine, was
temporarily withdrawn by the consent of the
several humane societies of the State back-
ing it, upon the pledge of representatives of
the Association of American Horse Shows,
Inc., that every effort would be made by the
Association to stop the practice over the en-
tire country.

It was thoroughly understood that if, by
October ﬁrst next, we were not assured
that the Association had taken action to this

effect, we should present our Bill again to

the Massachusetts Legislature.

If by this arrangement the showing of
horses with docked or set-up tails can be
stopped in all the states, and so the cruelty
involved in the practice of mutilating horses
stopped, the effect will be far more satis-
factory than securing the proper legislation
in one or two states.

The Horse Show people, many of them
opposed to the practice, confess that they
know it must yield to the rapidly growing
public condemnation of it. If the Associa-
tion itself will sign its death warrant that
will not only save the time that would be
required to bring all the states into line by
legislation, but a large amount of time and
money for the humane societies of the land.
We shall await with interest the outcome
of the Association’s action.

Curfew Law for Cats

Re surrected

Cats in suburban Oak Park have to stay
at home of nights. That’s the law and it
speciﬁes that they must not be allowed on
any street or alley or other public place be—
tween the hours of 7 P. M. and 6 A. M.

Dudley C. Meyers, commissioner of public
works, resurrected the law, 25 years old,
when he was harassed by complaints that
goldﬁsh in garden pools were being de-
voured by prowling felines—Our Animals

lﬂo.3

A New Cruelty

HE Detroit Free Press of January 19

is responsible for the following, upon
which Humane Societies will do well to keep
a watch: .

“Molasses II,” true to form, is running
last, just swallowing a lot of dust from the
other horses. It is what everyone in the
stands expected.

Suddenly Molasses II snorts, his tail stif-
fens and he makes a mad leap. He acts as
though he has been galvanized. Before
people in the stands realize what has hap-
pened Molasses II, who didn’t have a
chance, has streaked past the other horses
and won. Of course, he paid his few backers
a good price.

When Molasses II won it was a big
shock to everybody and most of all to
Molasses II himself. For if what Detroit
police say is true, Molasses II truly was
shocked into winning. Police here claim to
have proof of a nation-wide plot to electrify
race horses into winning. In fact, they
claim, they are holding the very saddle by
means of which jockeys slyly gave their
slow running mounts a jolt of electricity
which caused them to lay back their ears
and beat all the other horses—much to the
proﬁt of the gamblers who framed it all.

The Hawk and the Owl

By practically exterminating the hawk
and owl in the islands of Great Britain
plagues of vole, a species of ﬁeld mouse,
have occurred in recent years. The hawk
and the owl formerly kept these little ro-
dents greatly reduced in number. Man often
thinks he’s wiser than Nature. A law is
sought this year in Massachusetts to pro-
hibit any city, town. or county to offer or
pay bounties for killing or taking any hawk
or owl.

A half million fewer licenses for hunting
granted in 1931 than in 1930. The total for
1930 was 6,903,934. For the country New
York leads the list with 580,933 licensed
hunters, Pennsylvania next with 536,401.
Massachusetts had 111,192.




 

 

 

 

 

Sept. 1933

Wildcats in the Olympics
HAZELANA GOODWIN

N the nation’s last wilderness, the Olym—

pic Mountains, there are many Wildcats,
unique with their short “bob-tails.” They
are classed as predatory animals, but they
are as harmless as house-cats, and no more
destructive to wild life. Few venture near
enough to civilization to do any amount of
damage.

Because of their beautiful soft fur, their
pelts are coveted for trophies, or for rugs,
and it is not unusual for a hunter to kill
several. in a season. In a two-year period
a total of $3,165 was paid in bounty on wild-
cats, most of which were caught in steel
traps, and then shot. They are condemned
because they feed on quail, pheasant, squir-
rels, etc., which are plentiful and far out-
number the wildcats.

A full-grown male wildcat weighs from
forty to ﬁfty pounds, and greatly resembles
a domestic tomcat. They live in the heart
of the mountains, far from civilization, and
hide their lairs deep in the forest, or in
caves among the cliffs.

These mountain Wildcats are to be greatly
pitied, for they have perhaps the most en-
emies of any of the forest creatures. Tim—
ber wolves, coyotes, and other predatory ani-
mals besiege the-m, dogs and hunters seek
to slay them. Often the animal’s forepaw
is mangled and broken by a steel trap hid-
den in the ferns, which still grips it to
hold the poor wildcat fast until the hunter
shoots it through the head.

If a starﬁsh is cut into segments each
piece will grow into a perfect starﬁsh.

When a horned toad is being swallowed
by a serpent it often twists its head so that
the spines on its neck fatally cut the snake.

 

A DEER ASSUMES A DIFFERENT COLOR
WITH EACH CHANGE OF THE SEASONS bat. The modes of battle between

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Page 133

Deer Wisdom

SILVERQUILL

and through everything in Nature, but

in few places is this weird intelligence
more fascinatingly manifest than in the
lives and habits of deer.

A special kindness seems to rest upon
these beautiful creatures. Their vision is
keen to the point of wizzardry; their sense
of smell surpasses that of the bloodhound,
and their methods for preserving their lives
are often amazing.

As a rule deer assume a different color
with each change of the seasons. This is a
very mysterious thing, but one which ﬁts
them perfectly into the color scheme of their
habitat. In May and June they turn a brick
red, and their hair becomes scanty and long.
About October they pass into the “short
blue.” At this time they are nearly the
color of a mouse, and their coat is very
short. By December they have changed
again to the “short gray.” This thickens
rapidly as winter advances, takes on a
lighter cast, and the hair becomes very
brittle.

Each of these changes agrees with the
growths and foliage of the time when it
takes place, making it quite difﬁcult to de-
tect the animals if they are seeking to con-
ceal themselves. The red matches splendidly
the ardent shimmer of the early summer sun
on the young leaves and ﬂowers, and the
mazy meshes of thicket and glade. The
blue blends happily with the sober hues of
autumn, when the weeds wither and the
smaller growths take on a serious ripeness,
while the gray complements the withered
grass and naked groves. The horns of the
male deer, like those of the elk and moose,
are grown each year between the months
of May and September. The rapidity of this
antler development is nothing short
of marvelous, and some conception
of it may be had when it is stated
that an elk’s horns often reach a
length of six feet, while those of
an old moose may attain a spread
of sixty inches, or more.

The buck drops his antlers in
February and March, not always
at the same time. They separate
from the head exactly as a leaf
leaves its tree. A prong is added
for each year till the animal is six
years old, after which the contin-
uity is generally broken.

At ﬁrst the horns are mere
clubby growths, covered with a sort
of skin, which is so tender that it
may be torn with the ﬁngernail.
Gradually the branches form, the
prongs appear, and at last the ant-
lers have come to full growth.
From the beginning to maturity
they are covered with a tawny,
snuff-colored down called “velvet,”
the sixteenth of an inch in length.
Toward the last of August the
bucks seek the open glades where
the sun will have a chance to ripen
their horns. In late September and
early October they rub this skin
and velvet off on the bushes and
polish their prongs to tragic sharp-
ness. They are then ready for com-

g N uncanny wisdom seems to be over, in,

these lords of the wild is a mutual rush
which brings them into a head-on crash, in
which their horns often become locked.
Pairs of gladiators have been found in this
condition where one was dead and the other
scarcely able to remain standing, yet he
was still striking his dead foe with his feet.
A case is known where the deer which had
expired had been devoured by wolves, while
the one still alive had kept them off with
the slashing lightning still left in his hind
feet.

The does and bucks separate in May and
do not meet again till late October. The
former select some woody canon or valley
margin, where there are lush meadows and
dense thickets, and there they rear their
fawns. It is stated as a fact that these
dainty little creatures have no scent by
which either hound or wolf may detect their
presence.

The bucks choose higher ground, as a
rule, with a ﬁne eye for several very im-
portant things. In this way the deer popu-
lation is distributed over a vast territory
during the summer. One seldom, if ever,
ﬁnds more than two bucks together during
this time.

To begin with, a buck looks well to his
food supply. He eats very little grass but is
decidedly fond of tender weeds, flowers and
shoots. When the seeds ripen in his locality
he consumes much of this wild grain be—
cause he seems to know he will put on fat
thereby, a thing he appears to understand
he will need in the mating season when he
eats almost nothing and rambles day and
night.

Then the region of his summer home must
have several springs where he can quench
his thirst. It would never do to drink at
the same place each time. Cougars, too,.are
wise. So are hunters. Therefore, one nlght
the buck visits a certain fountain, taking
every precaution to hide his trail, and the
next he will go to a stream a mile and a half
away. By this process of rotation he escapes
any trap his enemies might set for him.

The buck uses the same good sense in the
matter of his beds. By no means does this
wise old monarch sleep in the same place
each day. Deep in some thicket, where the
ground is moist and cool, he digs a bed. A
mile or more away he makes another. Some-
where else he makes a third or a fourth.
Then he rotates among these secret hiding-
places where he spends the day, for dur—
ing the summer a deer always feeds at
night.

These beds are usually about three and
a half fee-t wide and ﬁve in length, and if
made where the hill is more or less steep
may have quite a bank on one s1de. In
selecting these shadowy retreats the buck
shows a marvelous wisdom. There IS always
a dense, over-hanging growth on the upper
side, so that it is utterly impossible for the
animal to be seen from that direction. The
place, too, must be sufﬁciently open to per-
mit the free circulation of air currents, and
there are always several avenues of escape.
Usually these lead to some deep, forested
gorge or series of canons where the deer
will have every protection.

Lying in these damp, sunless nooks the
buck always sees and hears his enemy ﬁrst.

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 142
@112 “ii-3am?! nf merry

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary
E. A. MARYOTT, State Organizer
PLEDGE
I will try to be kind to all living creatures and
try to protect them from cruel usage.

The American Humane Education Society will send
to every person who forms a Band of Mercy of thlrty
members, and sends the name chosen for the .Band and
the name and post-ofﬁce address of the pres1dent who
has been duly elected, special Band of Mercy llterature

and a gilt badge for the president. ‘
See inside front cover for prices of llterature and

Band of Mercy supplies.

NEW BANDS OF MERCY

Twenty-six new Bands of Mercy were
reported during July. Of these, 19 were
in Virginia, four in Tennessee, and one
each in Georgia, Illinois and Vermont.

Total number Bands of Mercy organ-
ized by Parent American Society, 196,184

Lawn Party in Brookline

Another delightful Band of Mercy lawn
party was given by Mrs. Alice B. Hutchins,
an enthusiastic humane worker, at her
home, 40 Atherton Road, Brookline, Mass,
on Tuesday, July 11. The grounds were
decorated with Band of Mercy banners and
ﬂags. Peanut races and potato races, with
other games, were enjoyed by the children.
Refreshments were serve-d at small tables
on the lawn.

Miss Virginia W. Sargent, president of
the Animal Relief and Humane Education
League of Washington, D. C., awarded
prizes of books promoting kindness to ani-
mals and subscriptions to 0m" Dumb Ani-
mals to pupils in the ﬁfth and sixth grades
of the public schools of that city for essays
submitted in a recent contest. More than
175 essays were received.

The Gardener’s Weather
Prophet

HE chewink is one of the most attrac-

tive and desirable of birds. While not
very shy of man he does not intrude his
company upon him, preferring the quiet of
deep woods and dense hedges. Coming up
from the South in the spring, he stays all
summer and his notes can be heard morn—
ing, evening and through the day. He is
of the robin family and his commonest
names are chewink and towhee. These two
names bear some resemblance to the two
songs he sings the most.

His “chewink,” or low note, is his day
song, sung while he scurries along on the
ground among low bushes, and is of low
pitch, denoting a bird of great vitality. His
“towhee” is his high note, or evening song,
and he sings this while up in the top of a
forty-foot tree. He starts this song loud
and high, then ends in a sort of trill slightly
resembling a lullaby.

He is the gardener’s friend because it is
said, and I believe it to be true, that he
never sings in the spring till all killing
frosts are over. How he knows, of course
cannot be told. Like all members of the
robln family he is decidedly insectivorous
and is very desirable to have around shrub-
bery, hazel brush and hedges. W. M.

OUR DUMB ANIJlIALS

Became of Age Last Fall

PORT,” the ﬁne old yellow Persian cat

who reached his majority last fall and
is still going on' strong into his twenty-
second year, spends most of his time during
these hot days in the cool rock garden of
his owner, Mrs. Harold D. Spicer of Paw
Paw, Michigan.

Although he has but one tooth and, at
times, it is rather hard for him to masticate
his food, yet he is so youthful in his ideas
and is so well most of the time, that he is
surely entitled to live out his days in peace.
All he asks is his few bites of round steak
and his dish of cream daily. He is content
to sleep the rest of the time away. When
his mistress is in the garden he follows her
about like a dog and is never content unless
he knows exactly where she is during his
waking hours when he is always found at
her feet. Sport was a kitten of a few weeks
(1)1d when he came to the Spicer home in

911.

Cats and Field Mice

WILLIS MEHANNA

I am not extra fond of cats but I am
sure they have a mission on the farm. All
farmers know that to have a good crop of
red clover seed there must be lots of bumble-
bees. Red clover is a cross fertilizer and
bumblebees are the only kind of bees that
have a long enough honey-digger to reach
into the clover bloom far enough to get the
honey. In doing this they carry pollen from
plant to plant and a crop of seed is insured.

The bumblebee usually has his nest on top
of the ground in the clover ﬁeld and the
ﬁeld mice destroy the little bumblebees and
the stored honey. Cats keep the ﬁeld mice
in check, sometimes nearly exterminating
them. Without the bumblebee ”red clover
would become extinct and without the cat
to kill off the meadow mice the bumblebee
would become extinct. I think we had better
let the cat live awhile yet.

Reading is to the mind What exercise is to
the body. ADDISON

 

Sept. 1933

“Ben” and “Bump”
GWENNIE JAMES

OMEWHERE in the paleolithic period .

of my childhood development, I became 4
acquainted with “Be-n” and “Bump.” They
were princely souls, even though their life
task—pulling an ice-wagon—was a lowly
one. Ben was mine, and was black; Bump
was chestnut, and belonged to my brother.
The prior rights of the ice company, of
course, were merely nominal, and. disturbed
us not in the least; besides, they served as
a real convenience in the matter of feed-
ing and housing. Ben was hoary and sear-
red; Bump was bright and strong and shiny.

At seven-thirty every morning, Ben and
Bump drew up in the alley below our kit-
chen-window. Immediate-1y my brother and
I would dash out to them, each of us carry-
ing an apple carefully halved and cored.
As we passed the little window on the back
porch, we would lean out and chant, “Here
we come, Ben and Bump!” It was a rite
and a custom. Strange and empty would
have seemed the day when Ben and Bump
were not fed their apples.

For over a year this was enacted daily.
The horses learned to expect their juicy tid-
bit. When we sang our little song through
the back-porch window, their tired heads
would jerk up. They stamped, and ﬁdgeted,
and strained their heads toward the alley
gate whence, in a moment, would come burst-
ing two small children with their hands full
of apples.

Morning after morning we never missed.
Once we both had colds; then it behooved
our mother to put on an old sweater and
run out into the icy alley to feed the horse-s.
Sometimes I had earache, and was obliged
to watch from the kitchen window while
my brother fed Ben for me. This was a
deprivation, but had the advantage of en-
abling one to enjoy in full the tossing heads,
the dripping mouths, the faithful stamping
and dancing with which the two old slaves
responded to the clarion call from the back
porch. Their response seemed a marvelous
and beautiful phenomenon to me. Years
later, when I studied in psychology about
the mouth-watering of the dog when he
hears the bell ring which has regularly
heralded his meals, I could not quell a little
ache of disappointment. Was it then only
a mechanical reaction—that which had al-
ways been so vivid and emotional and beau-
tiful?

Of course the horses could not stay for-
ever. Bump was the ﬁrst to go. Ben re-
mained for several years, appearing and re-
appearing, but at last he, too, failed to re-
turn. Sometimes I wonder (though feel-
ing it ungracious) just how many peeks of
apples were lavished upon the horses dur-
ing that year or two in which we fed them.
Of a certainty, the greater joy was to our-
selves. Sometimes of late, pondering on my
own uselessness, I think of Ben and Bump,
and am comforted. Harness—scarred, work-
worn old plodders—yet they had the gal-
lant souls of a Pegasus. And just as their
staunch hearts were cheered by our funny,
verse-like, morning call, so is mine today
when I think of it—

“Here we come,
Ben and Bump!”

 




 

 

 

 

 

Page 60

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

A Study of Spiders

MA'UDE WOOD HENRY

after their webs with a broom when-

ever you see one on your premises?
Many people look upon a spider as they
do .upon a snake, with fear and loathing.
But that’s absurd. Spiders are not so vi—
cious as they are supposed to be by the un-
informed. On the contrary, with the ex-
ception of some of the large tropical spi-
ders, they are harmless enough and more
fearful of us than we have!
reason to be of them. In-
stead of, destroying this
little spinner and her
handiwork, get a spider
book and learn about
them. You’ll be fascinated
—and astonished—and
meek! You’ll be ashamed
of your own clumsiness
when compared with the
deftness, elegance and
precision of the spider’s
craft.

Air navigators, riding
on silken ships spun as
they travel; builders of
suspension bridges long
before those constructed
by men; excavators of
tunnels with hinged doors
and turrets for the look-
out; weavers of fairy
webs, intricately designed
and perfectly executed;
makers of cocoons often so beautiful as to
cause a jealous pang to the beholder—urns,
vases, cups, or pear—shaped receptacles such
as are contrived by the orange garden spi-
der, semi-transparent meshes of silken
thread which half conceal and half reveal
her precious eggs. Are not these wonder-
fulindeed?

Then why not make the acquaintance of
these clever and talented little creatures
that share the earth with us? Why step
on them and sweep away their wondrous
webs so painstakingly spun under cover of
darkness? Why not study and photograph
their “pretty parlors and winding stairs”
instead?

Summer and autumn are spider-spinning-
time. You will ﬁnd webs then in your own
garden, hung between trees, stretched on
rose-bushes, vines and even in the vegeta-
ble patch. The orb weaver will decorate
your porch for you, leaving an elﬁn wheel
with silvery spokes lashed to the columns.
And this wheel, among the marvels of
spiderdom, will be spun from threads of
various strength; stout ropes to anchor it
safely, radiating lines often doubled to
give added resistance, sticky, elastic threads
to catch and entangle the unwary ﬂy, a
free space for Madame Spider’s own use
as she awaits her prey. Understandingly
and deftly the orb weaver goes about her
business, using the silk from her own body-
looms to fashion her lacy net, to line the
folded leaf which is often used as a retreat
and which is connected with her web by a
line on which she runs. This silken rope,
attached to her person, provides a quick
means of escape when needed. After cap-
turing her prey, she hastily pierces it, then
spins a band or silk sheet to wrap about it;

s RE you afraid of spiders and do you go

“oh..- 'vSA v . . v?

THE ORB WEAVER AND HER ELABORATE WEB

so rapidly must she work that it takes all
of her spinnerets to make this shroud.‘
The silk organs of spiders consist of three
pairs of spinnerets as a rule, situated near
the end of the abdomen. These spinnerets
bear spinning tubes through which the silk
is spun, often a hundred or more to each,
the tubes of different types being adapted
to the spinning of the various kinds of silk.
The orb weaver produces ﬁve different

 

grades of silk. Certain spiders have an
extra organ for spinning in front of the
spinnerets; it is called the cribellum and
bears several hundred or thousand tubes
which spin the ﬁnest of the silken threads
used by these spiders in their work.

There are spiders noted for the quantity
and strength of their silk which is used
commercially in tropical countries. These
are called silk spiders, one or two species
belonging to our southern states.

Spiders are -many and various and all
are interesting. There are cave, mountain
and desert spiders, spiders of house and
garden, ﬁeld, wood and marsh. These spin,
build, hunt and live according to their
fancy and necessity. The ground spider’s
retreat is as wonderful as the web of the
orb weaver. Not only has the trapdoor
spider a hinged doorway to her under-
ground abode but its chambers have silken
hangings. The wolf spider erects a watch—
tower; others use abandoned burrows or
rolled leaves. Crab spiders hide in ﬂowers
and capture insect visitors. Lynx spiders
chase their prey over trees and under-
growth. Jumping spiders pounce upon their
victims. The purse-web spiders hide in the
long, remarkable purse—like retreats which
they spin. And there is even a spider that
devours small birds, mice, snakes and ﬁshes.

While most spider mothers fasten their
cocoons or egg—sacs to trees, bushes, cliffs
or buildings, there is one, the nursery-web
weaver, that carries hers about with her
wherever she goes.

In View of their inﬁnite variety spiders
are well worth studying. And don’t for-
get, when you have an urge to destroy
them, that they are also useful as catchers
of ﬂies and other pests.

Apr. 1933

The Souls of Them

WILLA HOEY

I like to think the souls of them—
The furred and feathered things;

The hunted'deer with pleading eyes,
The birds with broken wings—

Find solace at the Gates of Gold,
Where good St. Francis stands

To soothe the needless hurts of them,
With soft and gentle hands.

I like to think his heart is touched
When e’er he hears the cry

Of creatures left in cruel traps
To suﬂer and to die;

And that the tortured souls of them,
Upon his bosom rest,

Because they suﬂered most on earth,
I think he’ll love them best.

Voices at the Door
MARGUERITE WARREN BURRILL

Y heart can never ignore the little

voices I hear at my door. I hear them
often, even more frequently now, since the
ﬁnancial stress has tightened so many purse-
strings already limp.

How many there have been! The little
gray kitten, so tiny that it should not have
been taken from its mother at the time
of its cruel adventure and whose tiny cry
was but a thread of sound, like the lightly
touched E string of a muted violin. The
larger gray kitten, whose very self-asser-
tiveness endeared him to the ﬁnder and won
a home for himself as well. The hound dog
who had been shot in the forehead and who
ate and ate until it seemed he must burst
from so much gorging and who could not be
persuaded to stay until properly identiﬁed
and protected. The trim “lady” collie who
wore a ﬁne collar and who was so pitifully
thin, and yet so patrician that when food
was offered to her, she ate it as daintily as
though she were picking at an after-lunch-
eon snack! The big white rabbit, “Petey
Dink,” who was being hectored by a dog
and whose subsequent discovery and rescue
were “just in the nick of time.” The squir-
rel with a hurt hind-leg “trundled” in from
the pine-grove by the writer’s small son
and who submitted so graciously to treat-
ment but who departed unceremoniously on
the third day of his convalescence from his
snug basement inﬁrmary.

And last, but not least, the little black
puppy of uncertain pedigree and lovable,
ways who could not join the writer’s in-
creasing family of pets because of its very
size and who, carried alternately in the arms
of her rescuer and her two children over
country roads for a distance of ﬁve miles
in a dismal November down-pour left in-
delible memories of her dearness behind her.

The little voices at my door I answer,—
eagerly, pityingly, hopefully, helping each
unfortunate that seeks my charity, as best
I may.

May I always hear their heart-breaking
cries of distress and suffering and be able to
comfort them! And may the readers of this
magazine also hear “the little voices at the
door”—and recognize the note of dire ap-

peal in them. What better resolution could
be made?

 




 

 

ﬁlar.1933

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

II

Page 43

The American Humane Education Society

N addition to the uncounted thousands

of persons reached through the world-

wide circulation of Our Dumb Animals
and our hundred or more different leaﬂets,
booklets, and publications of all kinds, no
less than 618,288 individuals were counted
in the year’s audiences of our fourteen
regular lecturers.

Reference has been made in the prev-
ious report to the afﬁliation of the Ameri-
can Humane Education Society with the
great Parent-Teacher Association and the
International Federation of Home and
School, both of which, with many lesser
organizations, are introducing humane edu-
cation into their programs. Think what
seed has thus been sown by our Society
and, if you can, try to estimate the prob-
able extent of the harvest in the ﬁeld of
humane education!

Bands of Mercy

Nothing in our long list of reports is
more encouraging than the large number
of Bands of Mercy organized, 6,785. This
is an increase of more than 33 per cent
over the preceeding year. These Bands
represent all sections of the country, from
Bangor, Maine, to Hollywood, Calif., also
Canada, the Philippines, Argentina and
Syria.

Humane Week Anniversaries

Ushered in by the usual Proclamation by
the Governor of Massachusetts, the annual
Be Kind to Animals Week and Humane
Sunday were observed in April. In Massa-
chusetts the schools held special exercises,
for which we issued and distributed free
10,000 copies of a new humane pamphlet.
The outstandingfeature, however, was the
annual poster contest. It is estimated that
70,000 posters were made in the public and
parochial schools of Massachusetts, of
which 4,411 were submitted to our judges.
They came from 346 schools in 122 differ-
ent cities and towns. An attractive new

ALLENTOWN, PA., YOUTH SHOWING THEIR COLORS

medal was designed and offered in the con-
test. The ﬁrst prizes numbered 675, the
second prizes 686, and the honorable men-
tions, with free subscriptions to Our Dumb
Animals, 927. The press of Massachusetts
gave generous space to announcements of
the awards. .

In connection with the national anni-
versary, we distributed more than a thou-
sand special posters, 75 trailers for use in
motion picture houses, and uncounted cop-
ies of Humane Sunday and other timely
literature. We conducted two nation-wide
contests—one for the best newspaper car-
toons in print, with prizes of $50 and $25,
and one for the best short anecdotes sub-
mitted to Our Dumb Animals, with prizes
of $15, $10, $5, and $3. Both were suc-
cessful. Several radio talks stressing Be
Kind to Animals Week were given by our
representatives.

“The Bell of Atri”

In a day when the talking picture seems
to be “the thing,” our silent ﬁlm, “The Bell
of Atri,” continues to be phenomenally suc-
cessful. There have been forty-nine sep-
arate rentals of the picture. Several of
these were for repeated showings by our
ﬁeld workers and others, while one ﬁlm
has been in use constantly in the Boston
public schools. During the year, four
prints were sold, of which one went to
France and two to England.

Jack London Club

That nearly 25,000 additional persons
subscribed to the pledge of the Jack LOn-
don Club, aimed at abolishing cruel animal
acts on the public stage, shows how this
reform is winning its way among the many
movements to relieve animal suffering. The
membership in the Club reached 564,967
by the end of the year. It is interesting
to note that Mrs. Jack London spoke in
behalf of this cause at the annual humane
convention in San Francisco in October.

 

Special Work With the Press

Our central humane press bureau ser-
vice, though continued from headquarters
after the death of Mrs. Hall in September,
suffers from the loss of her personal con-
tact with the constituents, as she had been
in constant correspondence with many of
them. Numerous expressions of appreci-
ation of her service and deep sense of her
loss have been received. In the eight
months of her activities she had sent out
7,272 press slips, 7,286 leaﬂets and pam-
phlets, 128 calendars, 5,314 cards, 284 sets
of lesson cards and 23 sets of posters.

Mrs. Park, conducting our Western Hu-
mane Press Bureau from California, sends
monthly articles to newspapers from the
Rocky Mountains to the Paciﬁc coast, with
a list averaging 550 and sometimes reach-
ing as many as 750. Many editors have ex-
pressed appreciation of this service. Mrs.
Park also distributes quantities of humane
literature, both by mail and in person. She-
had charge of our exhibit at the national
convention in San Francisco in October.

Field Workers in Many States

Miss Maryott, constantly at work in the
schools of Massachusetts, visited forty—ﬁve
cities and towns in various parts of the
state. Her talks resulted in 1,104 new
Bands of Mercy, with 40,455 members. In
addition to visiting elementary schools, she
gave an illustrated talk at Temple Israel,
Boston, and two lectures at the Teachers’
College, Lowell. Mr. Talbot, representing
the Society in part time, gave 95 illustrated
addresses in Massachusetts schools, usually
of high and junior high grade, before audi-
ences totaling 26,685. In the summer he
Visited 29 camps in eastern New England,
reaching 2,360 persons with humane talks,
and often accompanying the campers on in-
structive nature walks.

Miss Gilbert was employed for four
months in the spring in Maine and for
three months in the fall in Vermont, visit—
ing schools and organizing Bands of Mercy.
She received the hearty co-operation of
high ofﬁcials in both states, and was able
to reach about one hundred places, giving
560 talks in 393 schools, resulting in nearly
1,000 new Bands with more than 37,000
members. In September Miss Guyol repre—
sented the Society by visiting schools in
six towns of eastern New Hampshire,
where she organized 33 Bands of Mercy,
with 625 members.

Mr. Wentzel, with headquarters in Pitts-
burgh, traveled more than 10,000 miles,
visited more than one hundred schools, and
organized 287 Bands of Mercy, with a
total membership of 50,000. He also ad-
dressed numerous adult groups and distrib-
uted a very large quantity of humane
literature.

Mrs. Toomim visited 70 schools in Chi-
cago, gave 158 talks, and organized 1,398
Bands of Mercy, reaching 55,433 children.
She also spoke before several important
gatherings of teachers and others, and ar-
ranged seven radio programs with promi-
nent speakers.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

Dec. 1933

character of the practice of the virtues it
inculcates. Beyond all that has come to
those men and animals who have been more
justly and mercifully treated by reason of
its inﬂuence upon literally millions of souls,
there has been that reaction upon the life
and character of those who have been moved
by it to humane thoughts and deeds. Noth-
ing more rapidly reﬁnes, uplifts, exalts both
mind andheart than generous, gracious, un-
selﬁsh ministrations to others.

So made are we that back upon us with
the touch of a redeeming, regenerating hand
comes every holy deed of righteousness and
love done for another’s sake. The word of
human cheer spoken in honest good will to
one less fortunate than we, the recognition
of our kinship to men of every clime and
color by some token of brotherliness, the
act that, even in the slightest degree, blesses
the life of some horse or dog or friendless
sentient being, stirs within our own souls
an emotion, a something, that veriﬁes the
divine reality of the truth, “It is more
blessed to give than to receive.”

It is primarily the child in whom humane
education is directly interested. The culti-
vation of the spirit of kindliness to animals
is but the starting point toward that
large-r humanity which includes one’s fel-
lows of every race and clime. Let it be said
again and again that whatever societies for
the prevention of cruelty to animals have
done for the creatures below us, they have
done inﬁnitely more for men, women and
children in the reaction upon their char—
acters, transforming and ennobling their
relations to each other.

At their best the church and the Sunday-
school can meet face to face but a part of
the youth of any land. In the schools of the
nation, however, the vast majority can be
reached through humane education, which
raises no question of sect or creed, but fur-
nishes a common standing ground for such
moral teaching as all good citizens hold
vital to a people’s welfare.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

A Rare Tribute

HE following tribute to Ernest Bell,

one of England’s most honored humani-
tarians, appeared recently in The Times,
London. It is by his life-long friend,
Stephen Coleridge, and it is so beautiful a
memorial that we reproduce it entire.

Ernest Bell

Ernest Bell is dead! A leader who was
steadfast amid change, faithful amid in-
gratitude, undismayed by assault, simple
with the simplicity of greatness, and quiet
with the strength of profound conviction.

For half a century I have bee-n his humble
follower and reverent fellow-worker; never
in all those long years of service together,
laboring tot-lessen the sufferings of God’s
helpless animals, have I ever left his side,
or has he ever failed me- in any contest;
never has a word passed between us to dim
the light of a perfect sympathy, or loosen
the bond of the deep affection that bound
me to him.

No one in the outside world knew the
wide range of his ceaseless and beneﬁcent
acts of love to men and women fallen by the
wayside in this troublesome world. Beneath
that calm and seemingly unmoved manner,
there beat a heart quick to give itself in
consolation without too curiously caring
whether its objects were truly deserving or
not. Sorrow was there, and he did not stop
to discover whether it were not perhaps self-
created. Was not this to follow the most
sacred of all examples, “neither do I con-
demn thee”?

But to animals, who know nothing of good
and evil, who in suffering know no throne to
which they can bring their sorrows, who
know only that men in whose lands they
helplessly lie are returning their faith and
love with cold cruelty,——to these poor, un-
oﬂ'ending, betrayed creatures the heart of
Ernest Bell was for ever overﬂowing with
inﬁnite pity that years never lessened and

 

TWO OF BOSTON’S MOUNTED POLICE HORSES JUST RETIRED TO THE

REST FARM FOR HORSES OF THE MASSAHUSETTS S. P. C. A. AT
METHUEN. THIS SERVICE WE RENDER THE CITY, L-ARGELY FOR THE
HORSES’ SAKE, WITHOUT ANY COMPENSATION

Page 187

age never touched.

We may never again have with us such
an unwavering, steadfast, peacefully in-
domitable leader. But he will remain in the
minds and hearts of those who knew him
and loved him, an example to inspire them,
going before them upwards, upon the great
march to a better world.

“Follow his steps as ye g0,
Ye who ﬁll our ﬁles;
Strengthen the wave/ring line,
’Stwblish, continue our march—
On, to the bound of the waste,
On, to the city of God.”

Sentimentalism or Sentiment?
L. E. EUBANKS

ORE and more frequently, so-called

sportsmen are charging that the non-
killing nature lover is merely a sentimental-
ist, that he spends his time deploring the
loss of wild life but does nothing for the
cause.

One writer aptly asks, as an answer,
what greater protection can be given the
bird than to spare its life? And, as ex-
amples, let us remember the gift of Marsh
Island, Louisiana, by Mrs. Russell Sage;
the Rainey Wild Life Sanctuary, in the
same estate, ﬁnanced by Mrs. Grace Rainey
Rogers; the earlier successful work of
Abbott H. Thayer' in behalf of the sea-bird
colonies on our Atlantic Coast, and the
act 'of the late Edward Bok in establishing
his Florida preserves. What of the thou-
sands of dollars contributed by the Audu-
bon Societies and other disinterested organ-
izations, and expended in sanctuaries, war-
den service, and winter feeding? Especially
let us not forget that greater value, un-
measurable in terms of money, represented
by the moral and educational inﬂuence of
such efforts.

Whether wild life shall be sport for gun
users or an object for protection by the
non—killers requires an answer to this: Who
owns the animals? There is no evidence that
the sportsman has a better claim than the
so-called sentimentalist. One man wants
to kill crows, for instance, because they do
something or other he dislikes; but maybe
his neighbor has a pet crow and likes these
birds.

Of course, all animal defenders admit
that under some conditions certain animals
should be destroyed; but none of us has to
back down on his beliefs and arguments
because of the sentimentalism charge. Por-
ter, in “Science and Sentiment,” deﬁnes
sentimentalism as “feeling partially enlight-
ened by the intellect and yet refusing to be
controlled by it.” Animal defenders, all over
the world, have displayed unquestionable
intellect in their attitude on protection.

It is not probable that the lack of true
sentiment in the killer makes its appearance
in other persons unrecognizable? Sentiment
is deﬁned as a noble and tender feeling, and
this must be kindness. The average hunter,
who kills defenseless creatures, is not con—
spicuous for kindness. In other words, he
has no conception of true sentiment, and
mistakes its every manifestation for sen-
timentalism.

Coarseness and selﬁshness make one man
a hunter; reﬁnement and kindness make
killing repugnant to another. Which is apt
to be the better citizen and the better ex-
ample and guide to the coming generation?

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 182

of the North.

This Christmas Eve there will be men
hiking down the Moose River to Moose Fac-
tory, or down the Nelson River to York
Factory from the Great Slave Lake to Fort
Chipewayan. Away in the distance they
will hear the northern buglers blaring out
the call to the cook-house door. Over the
sub—arctic tundra or over the Ontario or
Manitoba muskeg, it will come, crisp and
clear as the sizzling of bacon in the pan.
It will make the horizon blaze with the glow
of an open oven. It will sound light as
buckwheat cakes, or the top notes of a
soprano. It will be as heavy with sweetness
as golden syrup, or the low notes of
Chaliapin.

The men of the snow trail will quicken
their steps. Their dogs will break into a
gallop. Their sled will leap over the hum—
mocks as if full of Christmas spirit. No
children waking early on Christmas morn
will rush so impetuously as they to- their
Christmas tree, which is their nearest roof
tree. Do not endeavor to tell these men
and these dogs that the canine Chaliapins of
of the North, are not singing true carols
of their own hinterland.

The Hartford Convention

HE November issue of Our Dumb
Animals went to press just as the an—
nual meeting of the American Humane
Association was being held at the Bond
Hotel, Hartford, Conn., so our report
is necessarily delayed. The Convention
proved to be one of the most interesting
and harmonious yet held. The children’s
sessions reached the climax on Tuesday
evening, Oct. 10, when stirring addresses
were made by Judge Frank L. Baldwin of
Youngstown, Ohio, and Sir Wilfred Gren-
fell of Newfoundland and Labrador.
Prominent among the features at the
animals’ sessions was the presentation of
humane education, as carried on in the
schools of New York City, by Miss Frances
E. Clarke. Many practical topics were dis-
cussed by able representatives of Societies
from Boston to St. Louis. On Wednesday
evening, Edward A. Preble, Government
biologist, gave the facts about our fur seals,
illustrating his talk by slides; President
Francis H. Rowley offered his report, “The
Great Cruelty—Then and Now,” as chair-
man of the Association’s committee on
slaughter—house reform; and Mrs. Katharine
N. Simondetti told of the work for animals
in Italy, especially in Florence where she
resides. During the evening there was pre-
sented, for the ﬁrst time publicly, the new
ﬁlm, “On Behalf of Animals,” showing the
work of the Massachusetts S. P. C. A.
This picture was received enthusiastically.
A striking exhibit of posters and litera-
ture by the Association and the large
amount of literature displayed by the
American Humane Education Society at-
tracted much attention. On Tuesday after-
noon the delegates enjoyed the hospitality
of the Connecticut Humane Society at their
headquarters’ building in Hartford. At the
directors’ meeting of the Association, Syd-
ney H. Coleman, president, N. J. Walker,
secretary, and all other ofﬁcers were re-
elected. A summary of President Rowley’s
report and extracts from the amusing paper
given by Miss Weiss of the Pennsylvania
S. P. C. A., appear elsewhere in this issue.

,7. near, 7 7 ,7, 7—. ,__~,;" ' .

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Dec. 1933

Tribute to a Noble-Hearted Dog

Editor’s Note—Not often are we privileged to
offer our readers so ﬁne and impressive a tribute
to a noble dog as that which follows. Its author
has given many evidences of the true humanitarian
spirit. This beautiful benediction deserves _h1gh
rank among the enduring gems of humane litera-
ture and we are grateful for its use to the “.Times”
of Bel Air, Maryland, in which it was originally
published.

F H qO the life and memory of “Sunset
Juno,” Saint Bernard pal of Ann Vogt
Barnett, whose mortal life went peace-

fully out just as the slanting rays of a west-

ern sun slipped into the soft shades of twi-
light and the friendly hush of night, Sep-

 

tember second, 1933, after an incomparable
companionship of eight and one-half years
where each memory, each association glows
with a love and devotion that shall color
life with a sacred halo to the last moment
of consciousness and on—may God grant——
into eternity. What a benediction for so
beautiful, so complete a life to have slipped
off to sleep—at sunset!

Kindness is that sentiment which inspires
mankind to be more benevolent, sympa-
thetic, tender, generous, good. It creates
more kindly feeling for others, greater sym-
pathy for the sick, the helpless, the unfor-
tunate, the wayward. Kindness is the good
Samaritan of the soul that rejoices to serve
others, ameliorate their sufferings and pro-
mote their joys. It would stay the cruel
hand of destruction and prevent it from
harming whatever has the power to feel;
it is the ambassador of the weak and pleads
in the courts of justice in behalf of fallen
humanity. Kindness is the noblest, holiest,
purest virtue that springs from the depths
of the human soul.

A half million children, men, women,
J uno-pal, have learned of this divine virtue
from you as they listened, thrilled, over
radio and in private and public entertain-
ment to the fascinating stories of your ex-
emplary life and adventures. These les-
sons in kindness which you taught have
gone far—souls have been touched and
countless lives made ﬁner and better for
having known you.

J uno-pal, you have builded in our hearts
a living, throbbing, indestructible monu-
ment to such a glorious achievement. Per-
haps no Saint Bernard since the immortal
Barry has left to future generations so rich
a legacy of human service. Through these

contacts you were loved and idolized by
thousands. They join us in the bereavement
of your passing.

Noble—hearted pal, we have always
thought you were closer to God than were
we blundering, sinning, egotistical humans,
but now we know it. Not merely your
beauty and intelligence, nor the deep spir-
itual lessons of patience, loyalty, love, de-
votion you taught us, have brought us to
this keener realization of your closeness to
the Divine Giver of all life, but the calm-
ness and courage displayed throughout your

 

THE AUTHOR AND HER BELOVED ST. BERNARD

brief illness—even as you closed your beau-
tiful eyes to all things earthly and the ones
you so deeply loved. To the very last mo-
ment you upheld, magniﬁcently, the gallant
traditions of your fo-rbears, the illustrious
Saint Bernards of the Swiss Alps.

J uno-pal, you not only taught us how to
live but also how to gloriously meet our
Creator. God grant we may so conduct our
lives that others can say as much for us!

The Likes of the Shrike

AST spring I noticed with some dis-

may that the English sparrows were
digging up my corn and eating it after I
had planted it. Generally they do not get
very far away from the buildings, but in
this instance I noticed some nearly a quar-
ter of a mile from the barn. A large male
sparrow was digging up a hill of corn when
a great gray shrike attacked him, knock—
ing him over in the dust and pecking at him
ﬁercely. After a time the sparrow got away
and haltingly ﬂew back to the barn.

Before this I had‘thought some of cut-
ting away a hedge that grew along the
roadside near the barn but since the shrikes
nest in this hedge, several pairs of them, I
am going to let this hedge alone. Whole—
some fear of the shrike keeps the sparrows
from doing so much mischief and has a
tendency to keep down their numbers.

The shrike, while quite combative, is a
useful bird and during the mating time
destroys and uses for food great numbers
of mice, large bugs and other pests. I let
hedges grow for fences and also allow
thorn-bushes and crab-trees to grow on
thin, stony ground to provide homes for
all kinds of birds. W. MEHANNA

 

 

 




 

Oct. 1933

Darwin and the Dog
C. M. LITTELJOHN

ARWIN was as keen an observer of

the dog as he was of wild animals
which support his great theory of the sur-
vival of the ﬁttest. Particularly has he
noted the language of this friend of man,
studied his vocabulary, and indicated his
absence of dumbness by various expressions
that served as outlet for emotion and com-
munication, in his celebrated work on the
“Descent of Man.” Various paragraphs
therein are devoted to the dog.

The great scientist, for instance, has this
observation to record:

“It is a more remarkable fact that the
dog, since being domesticated, has learned
to bark in at least four or ﬁve distinct tones.
Although barking is a new art, no doubt
the wild parent-species of the dog expressed
their feelings by cries of various kinds.
With the domesticated dog we have the
bark of eagerness, as in the chase; that
of anger, as well as growling; the yelp or
howl of despair, as when shut up; the bay-
ing at night; the bark of joy as when start—
ing on a walk with his master; and the
very distinct one of demand or supplication,
as when wishing for a door or window to
be opened.”

He pointed out further that: “It is cu-
rious to speculate on the feelings of a dog,
who will rest peacefully for hours in a
room with his master or any of the family,
without the least notice being taken of him;
but if left for a short time by himself, barks
or howls dismally.”

Then again, he cites:

“I have myself seen a dog who never
passed a cat who lay sick in a basket and
was a great friend of his Without giving
her a few licks with his tongue, the surest
sign of kind feeling in a dog.

“It must be called sympathy that leads
a courageous dog to ﬂy at any one who
strikes his master, as he certainly will. I
saw a person pretending to beat a lady,
who had a very timid
little dog on her lap,
and the trial had never
been made before; the
little creature instantly
jumped away, but af-
ter the pretended beat-
ing was over, it was
really pathetic to see
how perseveringly he
tried to lick his mis-
tress’ face, and comfort
her.”

Thus are some of the
friendly and spiritual
attributes of this great
friend of man noted in
the “Descent of Man,”
a more or less neglected
book these days, yet one
in which man may learn
to rate this friendship
higher and take pride
in its achievement.

There would be little
fear of dogs “going
mad,” if they were sup-
plied with wate-r when-
ever they wanted it.
Always keep a supply
available.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

 

Page 157

The Eagle and the “N R A”

ROBERT PRICE

left in Ohio, America’s ﬁnest and old-

est monument to the national bird is
to be found in that state. Could they have
known, the various members of the eagle
clans would have uttered a few extra
screams of family pride recently for the
unique ceremony in their honor which took
place in Ohio’s newest state preserve,
Moundbuilders’ State Park at Newark.

The ceremony was the opening of the
“NRA” campaign in that particular local-
ity. All summer the “Blue Eagle” emblem
has been reminding the nation of the one
bird which most perfectly symbolizes the
spirit and aspirations of the American
people. *Now it happens that the model for
this “Blue Eagle” design was not just any
eagle, not, even merely the American eagle
which has adorned the country’s insignia
from the earliest days. Instead the artist
who' created the “NRA” posters is said to
have turned for his idea to that particular
eagle which has been the patron deity of
human well-being far back into the dim-
mest beginnings of civilization on the
American continent—the “Thunderbird” of
the American Indians and of the earlier
moundbuilders.

At Newark, Ohio, in a great circular
earthwork enclosure containing some thirty
acres there is an impressive eagle mound
which is probably the most venerable efﬁgy
of the holy “Thunderbird” in America.
This mound, which measures 200 feet from
one wing tip to another with a body 145
fee-t long and, when ﬁrst discovered, with
a height of seven feet, forms the central
shrine in a majestic system of earthworks
which at one time included some twelve
miles of embankments, geometrical enclo-
sures, parallel walls, mounds, etc. The best
of these, which are well preserved in Ohio’s
new park, are the ﬁnest and most impres—

& LTHOUGH there are few living eagles

Photo from Soibelman

UNUSUAL COMPANIONS IN ATTRACTIVE POSE

A remarkable friendship has been formed between a pedi-
greed Alsatian and a young fox found wandering on a farm.
The Alsatian immediately took charge of the cub and the two
are now inseparable companions, even sharing the same bed.

 

sive monuments of the moundbuilder culture
remaining in America. No doubt the eagle
efﬁgy was a holy of holies to these primi-
tive people.

The “NRA” observance at this shrine on
August 31 was probably the most unique
“Blue Eagle” program in all the recent cam-
paign. The program was opened with an
impressive, traditional Indian ritual to the
“Thunderbird,” enacted by the Tribe of
Gimogash from the local Boy Scouts, a
ceremonial no doubt suggestive of the. orig;
inal pagan rites which thousands of years
before called together the moundbuilder
hosts to invoke the mercies of the Great
Spirit in times of drought and famine.
This service was followed by Christian in-
vocation and by talks given by national
leaders of the “NRA” drive. One particu—
larly striking feature was the speech of
Dr. Henry C. Shetrone, curator of the Ohio
State Archaeological and Historical Mu—
seum, one of the world’s most distinguished
archaeologists, who exhibited a great stone
slab bearing an incised ﬁgure of the
Thunderbird, which was originally found in
a southern Ohio mound and which is now
one of the most prized items in Ohio’s
great collection of moundbuilder artifacts.

Primitive Americans believed the eagle
deity to be the controller of all the various
manifestations of the elements. The wind
and the thunder were produced by the ﬂap-
ping of his wings. Lightning ﬂashed when
he winked his eyes. Rain was carried in a
great reservoir on his shoulders and was
released as the bird soared through the air.
Not unlike his twentieth century “Blue
Eagle” descendant, the mighty bird was
looked to for the very means of every-day
human subsistence.

A few other bird mounds occur in the
United States, some of them in Wisconsin,
others in Georgia. None of them, however,
possess the impnessiveness of the eagle
efﬁgy in Ohio’s new park.

That the ancient Newark mounds, which
archaeologists now believe to mark the cul-
mination of the “Hopewell” or highest stage
of the moundbuilder culture, should contain
a shrine to America’s greatest bird is quite
ﬁtting—so ﬁtting indeed, that a recent
writer in the New York Sun has even urged
that the park be acquired by the Federal
government for a national monument.

Annuity Bonds

Many men and women, lovers of animals,
are getting both happiness and material
comfort from our two Societies’ Annuity
Bonds. These bonds are absolutely safe.
They pay from 4 to 8%—according to your
age. Send the coupon for full details.

The Massachusetts S. P. C. A. (or)
The American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Ave., Boston, Mass.

Without obligation to me, please send
me your folder which tells all about your
Annuity Bonds.

Name ....................... Age... . ..
Address ................................

City .................... State .........

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 190
@112 Iﬁanh nf merry

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary
E. A. MARYOTT, State Organizer

PLEDGE
I will try to be kind to all living creatures and
try to protect them from cruel usage.

erican Humane Education Society Wlll send
to (2137:1731? Iirierson who forms a Band of Mercy of thirty
members, and sends the name chosen for the _Band and
the name and post-ofﬁce address of the preSIdent who
has been duly elected, spec1al Band of Mercy literature
and a gilt badge for the preSIdent.

See inside front cover for prices of literature and
Band of Mercy supplles.

NEW BANDS OF MERCY

Seven hundred and seventy-nine new
Bands of Mercy were reported during Oc-
tober. Of these, 204 were in Illinois, 152
in Massachusetts, 115 in Vermont, 87 in
Virginia, 70 in Pennsylvania, 51 .in South
Carolina, 43 in Rhode Island, 38 in Texas,
14 in Georgia, and one each in California,
Delaware, Indiana, Kentucky and ane-
sota.

Total number Bands of Mercy organ-
ized by Parent American Society, 197,292

The Camel Train

HE order of march in a desert camel

train is single ﬁle—camels on the
march bunch together only when something
goes wrong—and camel men, with their end-
less string of camels, make their solo dron-
ings to the accompanying chorus of twice
a hundred camel bells.

Inside each bell is a smaller one acting as
a tongue to the large one. The smaller bell,
according to Fred Richards, is exactly an
octave higher in tone and the difference be-
tween the two notes allows the imagination
free scope to supply the other six.

A camel driver scorns a bell with an iron
tongue, and this is one reason why the
sound of the coming and going of a great
camel caravan is so gloriously rich. To hear
this yodeling for the ﬁrst time from a gar-
den in the Chahar Bagh, near the Living
River, when the moon is at the full, is half
thrilling and half frightening but, to the
Westerner, the nightly performance after a
While becomes a dull monotony. To the Per-
sian it is wholly beautiful at all times; and
he will tell you that the camels enjoy it,
live longer and work better because of the
music. LESTER BANKS

 

“NOT A CREATURE WAS STIRRING,
NOT EVEN A MOUSE”

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Animal Music-Makers

ALETHEZA M. BONNEiR

OMEONE has said that the original

fountain of all music is based on the
various voices of animals, and certain it is
that many of our musical instruments were
originally devised to imitate these» animal
sounds.

For example, the deep roar of the lordly
lion ﬁnds musical representation in the
familiar bass tuba; the staccato whir of
the deadly rattlesnake is given orchestral
voice in the castanet; and even the lowly
but useful donkey, humorously called, in
the West, “the desert canary,” has his rau-
cous bray released in the nasal-voiced
bassoon. And again, the rhythmic hoof-beats
of galloping horses have brought into exist?
ence an orchestral combination of effective-
quality.

Music’s debt to animals ﬁnds further en-
largement in their valuable contribution to
nature’s musical life. To- realize this one
has but to hear the pleasing ensemble of
“lowing herds”; or listen in on a swamp
symphony, or a community chorus, as the
case may be, when “all good frog fellows
get together.”

That animals are very susceptible to the
inﬂuence of sweet sound has bee-n known
for centuries. Writers have made the most
of this knowledge and from their pens have
come oftentimes fantastic tales concerning
the musical matter. Robert Browning’s
“Pied Piper of Hamelin” is one of the best
known ﬁctional illustrations of animal-
response to harmonious sound. All readers
are acquainted with the story which deals
with rat-riddance in Hamelin-town through
the medium of music:

“To blow the pipe his lips he wrinkled,
And green and blue his sharp eyes
twinkled. . .
And ere three note-s his pipe had uttered. . .
Out of the houses rats came tumbling!”

Yet one need not depend on fables ~or
poetic pictures to establish the claims of
scientiﬁc research, for the power of the
snake charmer, as he drones a whining
theme on his bagpipe, stands out as deﬁnite
evidence of music’s power to “charm the
savage bre-ast”—such as the vicious cobra’s
for example.

Possibly horses are more sensitive to
musical vibrations than are other animals;
and who has not smiled over the prancing
delight as manifested by horses on musical
parade! But while music exhilarates the
horse, it tranquilizes a sheep, and the shep-
herd’s horn is an indispensable instrument
in lulling into placid obedience the unruly
members of a fold.

Monkeys, cats, dogs, rabbits, even mice,
give undivided attention to strains of music;
and the writer has in mind a most intelli-
gent dog, named “John,” who takes great-
est delight in accompanying his master up
and down the avenues of song. There are
no unsolicited howls from John, be it under-
stood, but upon request he takes his seat
by the piano and lifts his voice with all the
power and poise of a professional!

Animals have likewise served in a valued
musical capacity when, by their playful
antics, they have inspired master-music
creators to composition. Without the gay
tail-chasing gambols of Madam Dudevant’s
(George Sand) small dog the world would

  

Dec. 1333

not have been brightened by the brilliant
“Minute” or “Little Dog Waltz” as written
by the great Polish composer, Chopin, on
viewing the antics of the playful pet.
Another instance of animal-inspired music
is found in the celebrated “Cat Fugue”—a
composition by the Italian composer, Dem-
enico Scarlatti, who skilfully builded a
fugual theme around the notes, as sounded
by a pet cat on a strolling tour down the
keyboard of Scarlatti’s harpsichord. ’

Youth Prays for Peace

GRACE NOLL CROWE’LL in The Pilgrim
Highroad

Lord, we are the Youth of every land today,
Pleading for peace;

We are the ones who will be sacriﬁced
Unless wars cease;

We are the ones elected, Lord, to pay
A price too high.

You gave us life, and it is not your will
That we should die.

Open the blind eyes of our leaders, Lord,
In every land;
Open their hearts and minds and make them
wise
To understand
.That war is sad, and horrible, and wrong,
And useless quite;
That we, the clean strong Youth of earth,
Have the good right
To life and love and happiness and peace.
We would not be
Killers of men—we want to walk the earth
Clean—handed, free
From war with all its horrors, lust, and
greed",
Its dark despair.
Lord, may there never be another war—
This is our prayer.

 

The above reproduces the cover of a very
handsome calendar for 1934, published by
J. Philip Kruseman, Nassauplein 1 B, The
Hague, Holland. There are 27 other attrac-
tive animal pictures, all photographs, ar-
ranged on as many pages, 8 x 12 inches,
With suitable brief humane quotations, both
in Dutch and in English. The calendar,
which would make a most welcome Christ-
mas gift to any lover of animals, will be
mailed upon receipt of $1.50 (or 7 shill-
ings) by Mr. Kruseman at the above ad-
dress.

   
  
   
 
   
   
  
   
   
 
  
   
 
   
  
    
   
   
   
   
  
   
   
  
   
 
  
 
     
      
   
   
  
  
   
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
 
  
  
  
    
 
    
 
   
 
 
 
  

 

, 4—2:“ -

I

.‘z—

 

 

 

 
  
 
  

 

  
      
    
    
   
   
   
   
       
      




 

 

 

 

Page 38

“ Bob White”

AMY DOE VOGELSANG

This morn when the gray dawn. was break-
me.
And the moon was hidden from sight,
I heard a little bird whistling,
“Bob White! Bob White! Bob White”!

And in my heart I questioned,
Why did God make me so frail?
Why couldn’t I have been as tough
As a bluejay or even a quail?

Then this little bird whistled back,

The notes of his voice shrill and clear,
“Thank God that you are a woman,

And not here in the forest so drear.

“I keep whistling to cheer my flock

As we come to the brookside to drink,
Yet every bird has her troubles,

And I am not as safe as you think.

“So I venture forth in the morning
In the woods so dark and deep,
And dare come out at dawning,
When I know that the hunter’s asleep.

And even if you are a woman
With a body oft racked with pain.
If you protect one bird of the forest,
Your life will not be in vain.

A Traffic Policeman of Tree-

top Town
ROBERT SPARKS WALKER

OR a place near your home and heart

the tufted titmouse is a keen rival of his
ﬁrst cousin, the Chickadee. The very fact
that he is delighted to ﬁnd an old abandoned
woodpecker’s hole in which to make his
nest is an admission that he ﬁnds the task
of pecking out openings a very difﬁcult un-
dertaking.

He is a noisy bird and his habit of band-
ing the members of his immediate family
together after nesting season is over and
traveling throughout the winter in small
companies makes his race clannish and con-
spicuous. Did you ever see a tufted tit-
mouse that did not thoroughly enjoy talk-
ing? When a crowd of them get together
they are like a group of women at a social
gathering or a quilting party; they ever
seem to be discussing the latest styles in
nest-building, the ﬂavor of the best foods,
and insect gossip in general. The tufted
titmouse has not yet learned the politeness
of permitting one bird to speak at a time!

I can most always depend on the titmouse
to visit my shade trees in the country or the
city every week throughout the year. His
cousin, the Chickadee, comes with an equal
promptness but does not make as much fuss
over his daily visits. If you are a close
observer of titmice, you have noticed that
when they come around in family groups in
fall and winter, they seem not to take no-
tice of your presence. They never look quite
so Brownie-like as they do when. hanging
from a limb, heads downwards, busily pry-
ing open loose bark, seeking insects that
are hibernating during the winter months.
He considers the beetle hot-dogs rare deli-
cacies in winter; and when he can ﬁnd a

OUR DUMB

 

THE TUFTED TITMOUSE

cocoon and can haul the tenant out, he en-
joys a genuine jelly tart! When he is hold-
ing on to a bough, he is wholly oblivious to
what human beings around him are do-
ing or saying.

When you have seen how carefully a fam-
ily of titmice goes over a tree, taking it
limb by limb, combing it thoroughly with
keen eyes and sharp beaks, you will sure-
ly wonder how it is possible for even the
smallest insect to pass through the winter
without being caught by one of these in-
sect-trafﬁc ofﬁcers! The tufted titmouse is
truly the traﬂic ofﬁcer of Tree-top Town,
and he permits no jay—walking by cater—
pillars. He often ﬁnds where a katydid
has parked her eggs on the wrong side of
the bark-curbing, and he proceeds to remove
them with his sharp beak-billy.

When this trafﬁc ofﬁcer whistles peto,
peto, peto! should any of the tree—top in-
sect-pedestrians undertake to cross the
green-leaf sidewalk, or walk down the bark—
paved street, with his beak for a club, he
yanks them backwards and will not give
them another opportunity to patronize the
tree-top thoroughfare.

His little gray pointed top-not gives him
a digniﬁed appearance, until he hangs sus-
pended from a limb; and when he is in
this position it is fortunate for him that
his cap is fastened tightly to his head;
otherwise, he would be constantly kept going
to the ground to pick it up.

Facts about Birds

Kingbirds like bees, especially the drones.

The pileated woodpecker is rarely seen
feeding on live trees.

Since 1902 more than 450,000 birds have
been banded.

It is very difﬁcult to band a humming—bird
because the legs are so delicate, and the
Biogological Survey of the United States

has a record of only three banded humming-
birds.

The second or third nest of a bird in the
spring is usually a much more hasty affair
than the ﬁrst, probably because time is pre-

cious and the young must not get too late
a start in life.

ANIMALS

 

Mar. 1933

A Trolley Feed-box for Birds

ROBERT H. MOULTON

T seems that not much attention is paid to
H devising practical feed-boxes for such of
the feathered tribe as remain in northern
climes over Winter, and who must either be
provided with food during heavy snows and
zero weather or suffer severely. Ordinarily
it is considered sufﬁcient to scatter bread
crumbs and grain on the ground. The
trouble with this method is that a new snow
coming along may cover the food thus pro-
vided, or animals other than birds may con-
sume it.

Placing the food in a box with a roof
protects it from rain and snow and makes
a more convenient and attractive outdoor
bird cafeteria. To keep out four-footed
predatory animals such boxes generally are
fastened to trees, fences, or the sides of
houses and barns. But the common squirrel,
while not predatory, soon discovers and
appropriates any store of grain that may
be provided for the birds. His agility makes
it possible for him to scramble to almost
any point that a bird can reach.

To outwit these little raiders a Glencoe,
Illinois, resident has devised a trolley feed-
box which may be built by anyone at a
triﬂing cost and which is guaranteed to be

 

squirrel proof. The accompanying illustra-
tion gives a very clear idea of the construc-
tion of this feed-box. The box proper may
be built of almost any kind of lumber at
hand, the dimensions also being left to the
builder’s fancy. In the ridge of the roof are
screwed two hooks to which a couple of
small galvanized pulleys, costing ten cents
apiece, are fastened.

A piece of galvanized iron wire an eighth
of an inch in diameter and of any desired
length is run through the pulleys, one end
being fastened beside a window and the
other, at a slightly lower level, to a tree or
any other convenient object. A string fas-
tened to the box permits it to be drawn up
to the window and the food supply replen-
ished without the necessity of one’s going
out of doors. A slight push on the box
sends it back down the wire to its proper
resting-place. Loose food is placed in the
box, while pieces of suet, much prized by the
winter birds, may be tied to the uprights.
Squirrels have been known to attempt to
reach this box over the wire supporting it,
their unsuccessful efforts to walk the
“tight-rope” providing a screamingly funny
spectacle.

 




 

 

Mai". 1933

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Page 37

Be Kind toAnimals Week, April 17-22
Humane Sunday, April 23, 1933

Cash Prizes for Best Verse

WENTY-FIVE dollars for the best

poem; ﬁfteen dollars for the-second
best—these are the cash offers made by
Our Dumb Animals in connection with the
observance of Be Kind to Animals Week
this year. Of course the verse must relate
to animals and, so far as possible, carry the
lesson of this special Week, kindness to
every living creature. These are the con-
ditions:

Absolute originality, a manuscript never
before published.

Not more than thirty-two lines, prefer-
ably shorter.

MS. typed on one side of the paper only,
with name and full address of writer at the
top of the same sheet.

No explanatory letters or comments de—
sired, and no return postage as no MSS.
will be sent back. Keep a copy of what you
send.

Agreement to accept the decisions of the
editors of Our Dumb Animals as ﬁnal.

No MS. to be received for the contest
later than May 15, 1933.

The result to be announced in Our Dumb
Animals for July, 1933, when the prize-
winning MSS. will be published.

Address all entries to CONTEST EDI-
TOR (otherwise they will be treated as
regular offerings and passed upon accord-
ingly).

OUR DUMB ANIMALS, 180 Longwood
Avenue, Boston, Mass.

Prizes for Boys and Girls

' N order to encourage the study of animal

life with the camera, to quicken the love
for many of nature’s lowly children and
foster the spirit of kindness toward them,
we offer three prizes to boys and girls under
ﬁfteen for the best pictures of animals,
taken by them, with their own cameras, be-
fore April 1, 1933.

The ﬁrst prize, $10; the second, $5; and
the third, $3.

These may include domestic animals, wild
animals, birds, insects, the common toad,
practically all animals including the dog
and the cat.

The pictures must be taken by the boy or
girl under ﬁfteen, accompanied by a signed
statement from a parent, guardian, teacher,
or other adult to that fact.

Pictures should be addressed, Editor, Ou'r
Dumb Animals, 180 LongWood Avenue, Bos-
ton, Mass., and mailed, with postage fully
prepaid, to reach that address not later
than April 1, 1933.

 

AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

New Poster for 1933

HIS is a reproduction of the

new poster, in colors, 17 x
22. inches, designed by Morgan
Dennis especially for the Na-
tional Be Kind to Animals
Week. These should be used
freely by humane societies and
individuals, as schools, churches,
and other institutions will be
glad to have them on display.
Note that there are no dates on
the poster—it is good for every
day in the year. Copies bear-
ing the imprint of the American
Humane Education Society, 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston, are
for sale at these prices, post-
paid: Single 10 cts., three for
25 cts., eight for 50 cts., twenty
for $1, seventy for $3, 125 for
$5, and may be ordered from the
Society. Orders for larger quan-
tities, however, and all orders
requiring s p e c i a l imprints,
should be sent to the American
Humane Association, 80 Howard
Street, Albany, N. Y.

 

Plays for Humane Week

The American Humane Education So-
ciety, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, offers
a new play for Bands of Mercy, especially
adapted for production during Be Kind to
Animals Week, “The B—K—T—A—Club,”
by Kate Alice White. It requires eight
characters and runs about twenty minutes.
Single copy, 3 cents; eight for 25 cents.
The Society also publishes “Friends of Fur
and Feather,” (ten characters); and “A
Little Child Shall Lead them,” (six char-
acters); both approximately the same
length and price as the new one. “Fred
Changes His Mind,” (six characters); and
“The Trial of the Birds,” (nineteen to
thirty-one characters); are nearly twice as
long and priced at 5 cents each, or six for
25 cents and twelve for 25 cents, respec—
tively. Samples of all ﬁve plays will be
mailed for 15 cents.

For Humane Day Program

As in former years, the Massachusetts
S. P. C. A. will offer free to all teachers in
Massachusetts public schools, for use in ele-
mentary grades above the second, a new
pamphlet of suggestive exercises and helps
for the observance of Humane Day in
schools. In Boston this will be Friday,
April 14, because of vacation during Be
Kind to Animals Week. It is suggested that
the following Friday, April 21, be observed
wherever convenient.

As teachers, humane societies, and per-
sons in other states may wish to make use
of this pamphlet of eight pages, copies are
priced at two cents each in any quantity.
Samples free upon application to the Secre-
tary, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston.

 

For New England Dogs

RRANGEMENTS have been made by

the Massachusetts S. P. C. A., in co-
operation with the Boston Post, to award ten
medals to those dogs of New England whose
acts of courage, sagacity and ﬁdelity, dur-
ing the period from Dec. 1, 1932, to June 1,
1933, entitle them to marked recognition.

The Post invites its readers throughout
New England, to 'send it accounts of dogs
who perform heroic acts in behalf of human
kind or their own kin, of which the writers
have direct and personal knowledge.

A gold medal will be awarded by the
Massachusetts S. P. C. A. to the dog who,
in the opinion of competent judges appointed
by The Post, performs the most outstand-
ing act of heroism. To nine other dogs, if
that number qualify, silver medals will be
given for deeds of lesser merit.

The Massachusetts S. P. C. A. will in-
vestigate, so far as possible, such cases as
are cited by The Post, to substantiate the
facts carefully and impartially. “Lack of
literary ability should not act as a deterrent
to any reader,” says The Post in announc—
ing this popular project.

Short Radio Address

A brief radio address on “The Love of
Animals” is available for those seeking
copy to broadcast during Be Kind to Ani-
mals Week, or at any other time. It is by
Guy Richardson, secretary of the Massachu-
setts S. P. C. A., and runs about ten min-
utes. It may also be used as a leaﬂet for
popular distribution. Copies are available
for ﬁve cents, single, or $2.50 per hundred
in quantities. Address, 180 Longwood Av-
enue, Boston.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 70

into my room, but I gently brushed him
out. Then an anxious little face appeared
at the mouth of the burrow and bright
little eyes peered out at me. I stepped quiet—
ly aside, and presently a low chittering
came from the burrow mouth. One by one
the little ones heard it and waddled toward
it. I went into the house to call my Wife,
but when we came out there were no baby
chipmunks to be seen. Mother had called
them home and I have no doubt that she
gave them a good scolding for their fool-
hardy behavior. ,On several subsequent
days, however, we saw them near the hole,
and before we knew it they had grown so
big and lively that we could scarcely tell
them from their parents.

There is a sad sequel to this tale which
I suppose I must tell. I caught one of those
young chipmunks in a rat-trap in the wood—
shed. If I had supposed that cheese would
offer any attraction to them I would never
have left the trap there. It was a real
shock to discover the poor little corpse.
Of course a chipmunk is a rodent like a rat,
and yet somehow there seems to be a great
difference. Curious, isn’t it? Well, I took
the trap away and left the rats to make
merry over my soft—heartedness.

Vachel Lindsay called the chipmunk “the
monkey of the squirrel tribe, quivering
with monkey shines,” and indeed he is play-
ful and mischievous, though not as much so
as the red squirrel. He is very pretty, with
his striped sides and nervous tail. Very in—
telligent, too, I think. Since I have come to
know the chipmunks through such inti-
mate daily association, I have come to like
them the best of all the squirrel clan. I
love to watch them busily harvesting nuts
and carrying pouchfuls of provender into
their holes, or sitting on the stone-wall or
the .woodpile, chattering or silent and mo-
tionless as miniature statues.

No doubt there are people who prefer
lawns without holes in them, but I shall be
sorry if the time ever comes when there is
no chipmunk’s hole in mine.

This Dog Meets Dining Cars

ROY L WARREN

“Jack,” the 12-year-old shepherd dog,
who makes his headquarters at the Grand
Trunk station in Battle Creek, Michigan,
is missing from his unique post of duty——
meeting the trains—and dining—car chefs
on the Grand Trunk fast trains have been
inquiring for him.

Jack is sick in bed with rheumatism.

Probably in a class by himself as a hand-
out specialist, Jack dashes to meet the
trains. His 80-yard sprint from the bag-
gage room to the dining-room car is sen—
sational. It’s undoubtedly an aggravating
cause in his rheumatism.

When a sumptuous train pulls into the
station, Jack rushes to the dining-car. He
barks ﬂuently at the door to attract the
attention of the chef.

Translating freely, he asks, “Brother, have
you got a bone?” The chef usually has one.

When fare on the trains is slim, Jack

eats nobly at the Grand Trunk station res-
taurant.

He’sprobably worrying now over the
poss1billty of some other dog ﬁnding out
about his pet graft.

OUR DUMB

First Paper Makers

CARL SCHURZ LOWDEN

GYPTIANS are generally credited

with having made the ﬁrst paper from
a plant called the papyrus, but the books
are all wrong. Paper got its name from the
plant; yet hundreds of years before that
time the process had been invented by cer-
tain insects who were comparatively little

 

BEWARE OF THOSE ROUNDED,
GRAY NESTS CLEVERLY MADE

but mighty. When the Egyptians “stole
their stuff,” these ﬂyers became as mad as
hornets, and they have remained angry
ever since.

Of course all this happened some forty-
three centuries ago; but the hornets have
never forgotten. If you think their memory
of that insult has slipped a peg 0r two in
the meantime, just try getting into close
contact with them. You will immediately
revise your opinion upon this point.

How did the hornet get that name? In
their hum there is a deep ominous menace.
If you have never heard the whine of a big
shell, you certainly know the buzzing roar
of an airplane. The insect does not use the
soft pedal in his bullet-like approach. He
is hard-boiled. He comes with such shell-
like haste as to create a horn-like sound,
hence the name of hornet which means
“little horn.”

These fellows love so well to make paper
that they can scarcely stop the work, once
they have begun it. Paper-making is an
instinct with them. At ﬁrst the paper nest
may be no larger than a hen’s egg; then
the insects may build and build and build
until a half-bushel measure would not hold
it.

Hornets can be induced to construct nests
of surpassing beauty marked by the tints
of the rainbow. This leading of the obstrepé
erous insects into the ﬁeld of art is fraught
with danger to the guide, as may be ex-
pected.

“Such a nest as that is not produced by
hornets in a general way,” Mr. Stone, an
English scientist, recorded several years ago.
“They do not trouble themselves to form
much of a covering, especially when a small
cavity in the head of a tree is selected. The
walls of the chamber the-y consider a suf-
ﬁcient protection for the combs.

“If you expect them to form a substantial

ANIMALS

Zlfay, 1933

covering, the combs must be so placed as to
have ample space around them. If you
expect them to fabricate a covering of great
beauty, you must select the richest colored
woods such as form the moSt striking con-

trasts. Place them so that the insects will

be induced or compelled to use them in the
construction of their nest. This is exactly
what I did with reference to the nest in
question.”

How can a hornet nest be cut away and
put in a special location? This Mr. Stone
twisted cotton on the end of a stick, dipped
the wad in chloroform, then carefully ap-
proached the nest and let the fumes of the
anesthetic put the builders to sleep. When
they arouse and begin to buzz again a sec-
ond application of the drug must be made.
The lifting of a nest is a tedious process.
Stone worked six hours at the task in the
middle of the night when the hornets were
weary from their day’s labor.

According to the popular saying, three
hornets can kill a man. The sting of these
ﬁerce wasps is extremely painful and poi-
sonous. One should show proper respect for

, their power of attack.

Beware of those rounded gray nests
cleverly made by fashioning ’ wood into
paper. Don’t disturb the tiny owners. Don’t
advance too close. If a hornet’s drive ends
with a direct hit on the forehead, it may
knock a person off his feet. The hornet is
the Babe Ruth of the insect family. Better
look at his nest through ﬁeld glasses in-
stead of poking it with avﬁshing pole. It is
the safer way.

The Pernicious Sling-shot

JOSEPH R.SCHADEL

ROM time immemorial the objection-
able sling-shot has been considered as
a juvenile toy or means of amusement re-
gardless of the often destructive and dan-
gerous effect it has on small game and
many times domestic animals such as dogs,
cats and birds have been the victims of a
missile directed by a thoughtless 0r miscre-
ant member of the younger generation.
Recently in a small California town a
number of house cats were found dead or
dying with small wounds inﬂicted about the
face and head or some other vital portion
of the body. As a group of boys were seen
with sling—shots a day or two previous, the
owners of the felines, some of which were of
the more valuable varieties, were ready to
declare war on the perpetrators if only the
guilty ones could be apprehended. However,
the latter must have scented the wrath of
the community because there was -a sudden
absence of the aspiring Davids and the
members of the feline species can once more
venture out to frolic without the danger of
the sling-shot.
No boy or youth should be allowed to

’ carry a sling-shot in his pocket, regardless

of the alleged motive. There is but one cer-
tain conclusion to arrive at whenever a
sling-shot is in the possession of a young-
ster: he is likely to try his skill or luck, as
the case may be, on smallbirds, or animals,
often on creatures which have been domesti-
cated enough to shed their inborn timidity
and feel safe from harm in the presence of
their human associates and which place a
trust in them so sacred that to violate this
conﬁdence is really a criminal act. The
sling-shot is not a toy.

 

 




 

 

 

Sept. 1933

. j l,

:f: T: i ‘i \H4\\\\
" < , r». “N
' I ‘ \ \\

 

Founded by Geo. T. Angel]. Incorporated March, 1868

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds
JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman, Chase Harris Forbes
Corporation
CHARLES G. BANCROF‘T, Vice-President, United Shoe
Machinery Corporation
PHILIP STOCKTON, President, First National Bank Of
Boston

Prosecuting Ofﬁcers in Boston
Telephone (Complaints, Ambulances) Longwood 6100
L. WILLARD WALKER, Chief Oﬁicer

HARRY L. ALLEN DAVID A. BOLTON

HARVEY R. FULLER HOWARD WILLAND
WALTER B. POPE

County Prosecuting Ofﬁcers

HERMAN N. DEAN, Boston,

Middlesex, Norfolk and Plymouth
FRED T. VICKERS, Lynn Eastern Essex
WILLIAM W. HASWELL, Methuen Western Essex
THEODORE W. PEARSON, Springﬁeld,

Hampden, Hampshire and Franklin

ROBERT L. DYSON, Worcester, Worcester
WINFIELD E. DUNHAM, New Bedford, Bristol
HAROLD G. ANDREWS, Hyannis,

Barnstable, Dukes and Nantucket
EDWIN D. MOODY, Pittsﬁeld Berkshire

Rest Farm for Horses and Small Animal Shelter,
Methuen

W. W. HASWELL, Superintendent

Women’s Auxiliary of the Mass. S. P. C. A., 180
- Longwood Avenue, Boston—MRS. EDITH WASHBURN
CLARKE, Pres.; MRS. A. J. FURBUSH, Treas.

Springﬁeld Branch—MRS. DONALD C. KIBBE, Pres.;
MRS. AARON BAGG, Treas.

Winchester Branch—MRS. RICHARD S.
Pres.; MISS BESSIE SMALL, Treas.

TAYLOR,

MONTHLY REPORT OF OFFICERS

Miles traveled by humane ofﬁcers. . 16,401
Cases investigated ............... 327
Animals examined .............. 5,682
Number of prosecutions .......... 4
Number of convictions .......... 4
Horses taken from work .......... 34
Horses humanely put to sleep ..... 19
Small animals humanely put to
sleep ........................ 1,668
Stock-yards and Abattoirs
Animals inspected .............. 37,227
Cattle, swine and sheep humanely
put to sleep .................. 10

The Massachusetts Society for the Pre-
vention of Cruelty to Animals has been re-
membered in the wills of Mrs. Brooxxe B.
Williams and Annie Bolton Matthews
Bryant of Boston, and Mary B. Johnson of
Ayer.

August 8, 1933

The annual Fair of the Women’s Auxil-
iary of the Massachusetts S. P. C. A. will
take place Thursday, December 14, at the
Copley Plaza, Boston. It is for the beneﬁt
of the Angell Animal Hospital.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

Angell Memorial Animal Hospital
and
Dispensary for Animals

184 Longwood Avenue Telephone, Longwood 6100

Veterinarians

H. F. DAILEY, v.M.D., Chief
R. H. SCHNEIDER, v.M.D., Asst. Chief
E. F. SCHROEDER, D.v.M.
W. M. EVANS, D.v.s.
G. B. SCHNELLE, v.M.D.
T. O. MUNSON, v.M.D.
HARRY L. ALLEN, Superintendent

Springﬁeld Branch

53-57 Bliss Street, Springﬁeld, Mass.

THEODORE W. PEARSON, General Manager
A. R. EVANS, v.M.D., Veterinarian

 

 

 

HOSPITAL REPORT FOR JULY
Including Springﬁeld Branch

Hospital Dispensary
Cases entered 698 Cases 2325
Dogs 507 Dogs 1,862
Cats 179 Cats 412

‘ Birds 6 Birds 41
Horses 4 Goats 3
Rabbit 1 Rabbits 2
Rat 1 Horses 2

Rats 2
Operations 8 18 Chameleon 1

Hospital cases since opening, Mar.
1, 1915 .................... 112,662
Dispensary Cases ............. 254,553

Total ...................... 367,215

MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A. IN THE
COURTS

Some Prosecutions for July

For cruelly overcrowding and transport-
ing two cows and twenty-ﬁve calves in a
motor truck with size Of body 7 x 101/2
feet, an Offender was found guilty and
ﬁned $50.

A defendant who had charge and cus-

tody of a pair of horses was convicted of

subjecting them to unnecessary suffering.
Each horse was being worked with suppu—
rating sores under collar. Horses were taken
from work and sent to stable. Offender
was ﬁned $25.

For knowingly and wilfully permitting
a cow to be subjected to unnecessary suffer-
ing and cruelty, defendant was ﬁned $50
with payment suspended for one month.
When his neighbor’s cows broke into his
cornﬁeld he took custody Of them, during
which time one was so badly injured that
it had to be destroyed.

This is the season when careless vaca-
tionists are likely to abandon their pets,
especially cats. To any person in Massa-
chusetts interested to post it in a conspicu-
ous place, we will send without charge a
card reading: REWARD OF $20 Offered by
the Massachusetts S. P. C. A. for evidence
which will convict for the criminal offense
of ABANDONING A CAT. Francis H.
Rowley, President.

I 0

More friends are needed to endow stalls
and new kennels in the Angell Memorial
Animal Hospital. Payments of thirty-ﬁve
dollars for a kennel or seventy-ﬁve dollars
for a stall will insure a suitable marker
inscribed with donor’s name. Terms of per-
manent endowment of free stalls and ken-
nels will be given upon application to the
Massachusetts S. P. C. A., 180 Longwood

Avenue, Boston.

Page 137

“Daisy” Day on Cape Cod

AISY Day on Cape Cod, August

5, sponsored by the Women’s Aux-
iliary of the Massachusetts S. P. C. A.,
with Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke, presi-
dent, acting as chairman, and Mrs. Arthur
W. Hurlburt, vice—president, as treasurer,
proved to be a real success. The general
interest and co-Operation of the people
throughout the Cape testiﬁed to the un—
tiring energy of our very efﬁcient Ofﬁcer,
Harold G. Andrews of Hyannis, who ar-
ranged for the following captains: Miss Jean
Hinkle, Osterville; Mrs. Lee, Harwich; Miss
Vida Preston, Dennisport; Mrs. C. Dodds,
Dennis; Miss Catherine Eldredge, Orleans;
Mrs. Don Trayser, Hyannis; Miss Maud
Doane, Chatham; and Mrs. Herbert McLane,
Falmouth. Their helpers numbered about
one hundred. The day was ideal and the
people were in a responsive mood, so that
a very generous amount was collected for
the work for animals on the Cape, where
the Society hopes to build an animal shelter
when sufﬁcient funds have been received.

Officers Elected in Taunton

At the annual meeting of the Taunton
Branch of the Massachusetts S. P. C. A.,
held in July, these Ofﬁcers were elected:
Mrs. Howard F. Woodward, president; Mrs.
Charles P. Finnegan, vice-president; Mrs.
Thomas H. Caswell, secretary; Mrs. Charles
M. Taylor, treasurer; and Miss M. Emma
Burt, press correspondent. This is the or-
ganization formerly known as the Animal
Welfare Workers, which changed its name
when it became aﬁiliated with the Massa-
chusetts Society last April. The annual
reports showed homes found for 66 dogs
and three cats, and 35 lost dogs returned to
their owners. Many other cases were in-
vestigated and relieved. Dr. James H.
O’Brien is now agent for the Society.

“Schneider”

Editor, Our Dumb Animals :—

I wish I might express what the death
Of a dog truly means to a person who really
loves his dog. Yet, to convey to others this
loss I ﬁnd words and expressions so inade-
quate that I do not know what to say to
do so. To some people a dog is—just a dog,
“a dumb animal,” easily replaced by an-
other. Truly, I can get another dog—a man
can get another wife, or perhaps a child
but its not the same wife or child and it
never will be—equally so it’s not the same
dog. I hav’nt just lost a dog, “a dumb ani-
mal,” I have lost my best friend, one whose
unselﬁsh devotion, whose understanding,
whose love, sincerity and cheerfulness can-
not be replaced, and now I feel all alone,
alone with only my memories of him, and
with the hope that some day I may again
be with him. And SO, you who love your
dog, you, to whom a dog is something more
than a quadruped, make the most of him
for the short time you will have him, treat
him kindly, patiently, and be to him what
he has tried all his life to be to you, and
when he passes away let him still live in
your heart, and then, to you, he will never
die, then you will continue to derive com—
fort from him as you have, no doubt, done
many times in the past.

Belmont, Mass. C. S. HARRINGTON

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

June, 1935’

 

Founded by Geo. T. Angell. Incorporated March, 1868

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds

JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman, Chase Harris Forbes
Corporation

CHARLES C. BANCROFT, Vice-President, United Shoe
Machinery Corporation

PHILIP STOCKTON. President, First National Bank of
Boston

Prosecuting Ofﬁcers in Boston
Telephone (Complaints, Ambulances) Regent 6100
L. WILLARD WALKER, Chief Oﬁ‘icer
HARRY L. ALLEN DAVID A. BOLTON
HARVEY R FULLER HOWARD WILLAND
WALTER B. POPE
County Prosecuting Ofﬁcers

HERMAN N. DEAN, Boston.

Middlesex, Norfolk and Plymouth

FRED T. VICKERS, Boston Eastern Essex
WILLIAM W. HASWELL, Methuen, Western Essex
THEODORE W. PEARSON, Springﬁeld,

Hampden, Hampshire and Franklin

ROBERT L. DYSON, Worcester, Worcester
WINFIELD E. DUNHAM, New Bedford, Bristol
HAROLD G. ANDREWS, Hyannis,

Barnstable, Dukes and Nantucket

EDWIN D. MOODY, Pittsﬁeld, Berkshire

Rest Farm for Horses and Small Animal Shelter,
Methuen

W. W. HASWELL, Superintendent

Women’s Auxiliary of the Mass. S. P. C. A., 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston—MRS. EDITH WASHBURN
CLARKE, Pres.; MRS. A. J. FURBUSH, Treas.

Springﬁeld Branch—MRS. DONALD C. KIBBE, Pres.;
MRS. AARON BAGG, Treas.

Winchester Branch—MRS. RICHARD S. TAYLOR,
Pres.; MISS BESSIE SMALL, Treas.

I I
I)

More friends are needed to endow stalls
and new kennels in the-Angell Memorial
Animal Hospital. Payments of thirty-ﬁve
dollars for a kennel or seventy-ﬁve dollars
for a stall will insure a suitable marker
inscribed with donor’s name. Terms of
permanent endowment of free stalls and
kennels will be given upon application to
the Massachusetts S. P. C. A., 180 Long-

wood Avenue, Boston.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

Angell Memorial Animal Hospital
and
Dispensary for Animals

Telephone, Regent 61 00

Veterinarians

. F. DAILEY, V.M.D., Chief
. H. SCHNEIDER, V.M.D., Asst. Chief
. F. SCHROEDER, D.V.M.
. M. EVANS, D.V.S.
. B. SCHNELLE, V.M.D.
. O. MUNSON, V.M.D.

HARRY L. ALLEN, Superintendent

Springﬁeld Branch

53-57 Bliss Street, Springﬁeld, Mass.

THEODORE W. PEARSON, General Manager
A. R. EVANS, V.M.D., Veterinarian

184 Longwood Avenue

eogmwm

 

 

 

HOSPITAL REPORT FOR APRIL
Including Springﬁeld Branch

Hospital Dispensary
Cases entered 632 Cases 2,178
Dogs 468 Dogs 1,777
Cats 148 Cats 365
Horses 5 Birds 27
Birds 8 Monkeys 4
Rabbits 2 Rabbits 3
Goat 1 Goat 1

. Cow 1
Operations 995
Hospital cases since opening, Mar.
1, 1915 ..................... 110,557
Dispensary Cases .............. 247,078
Total ...................... 357,635

MONTHLY REPORT OF OFFICERS
Miles traveled by humane ofﬁcers. 13,839

Cases investigated .............. 467
Animals examined .............. 5,393
Number of prosecutions ..........
Number of convictions .......... 4
Horses taken from work ......... 24
Horses humanely put to sleep . . . . 26
Small animals humanely put to
sleep .. . ........ . ............ 1,158
Stock—yards and Abattoirs
Animals inspected .............. 36,015
Cattle, swine and sheep humanely
put to sleep .................. 36

The Massachusetts Society for the Pre-
vention of Cruelty to Animals has been
remembered in the will of Elliott W. Fiske
of Waltham.

May 9, 1933

D O
0

Remember the Massachusetts 5. P. C. A.

in your will.

1 = m»--.

Page 89

New York Women’s League

T is a splendid report that has been is-

sued for the last year by the New York
Women’s League for Animals, which con-
ducts the Ellin Prince Speyer Hospital for
Animals at 350 Lafayette Street, New York
City. This admirable institution admitted
25,949 patients into its Hospital during
1932, of which 23,854 were dogs and 2,022
cats. Seventeen stations for watering
horses on the city streets were kept open
during the spring, summer and fall. The
humane education cOmmittee responded to
many calls from schools for humane post-
ers and literature. A very successful pet
show was held at Hotel Roosevelt in April,
sixty-ﬁve unpedigreed animals having
competed for prizes. In February the
Junior Branch presented “Romeo and Ju-
liet” for the beneﬁt of the League.

The organization is to be congratulated

upon a signally successful year and the'

promise of future activities on a similar
high standard. All members of its Junior
Branch receive Om" Dumb Animals as a
part of their membership.

MASSACHUSETTS s. P. o. A. IN THE
COURTS

Summary of Prosecutions for April

For setting and maintaining traps for the
capture Of fur-bearing animals which would
cause continual suffering and were not de—
signed tO kill at once or take animals alive
unhurt, a defendant was convicted and
ﬁned $50. He was committed to jail for
non-payment of ﬁne.

For cruelly beating a dog by shooting
him with No. 4 Shot, offender was found
guilty and ﬁned $10.

Failing to provide proper Shelter for
eight head of cattle, guilty, ﬁne $10.

Cruelly beating a dog with an iron bar,
ﬁne $10.

For failing to provide proper food for
twenty-ﬁve head of cattle, three of which
were too emaciated and feeble to stand
and two others had to be killed, the owner
was convicted in February of last year and
ﬁned $50 in lower court. Upon his appeal
to Superior Court the ﬁne was doubled.
Final disposition of the case was not
reached until last month. On a similar
charge and also one for unnecessary tor-
ture of a disabled cow the same defendant
was found guilty last month on both
counts. He was ﬁned $50 on each and ap-
pealed. The higher court placed both these
cases on ﬁle.

 

 

 




 

 

 

    
  

 

 

NOVEMBER 1933

 

 

 

 

WE DO OUR PART, MR. PRESIDENT

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

' )

THE MASSACHUSETTS SOCIETY FOR THE

REVENT ION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS
AND THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY

 

 

 

 

 




 

u U. 5,Trade Mark. Registered 1) 1
4123

0,1.

 

/ .
/ .
’3'” ,. u

0"

_ . Ow "E
N N Q.
1 W' =\ \
" a,‘ \\ R
‘ '1‘. 7’“, ~ \
's' . I .
%.',...+J-trv\
§,\'
‘iu‘ “ u' ,
\ll ,
\\‘

 

The Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

The American Humane Education Society

The American Band of Mercy

I would not enter on my list of friends,
Though graced with polished manners and ﬁne sense,
Yet wanting sensibility, the man
Who needlessly sets foot upon a worm.
—COWPER

   
  

GLORY TO
GOD,
PEACE on EARTH,

  
  
   
 
 

AND MERCY 'r'o *
EVERY LIVING
CREATURE.

   

Published monthly by the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood, Massachusetts

Entered as second-class matter, June 29, 1917, at the Post Office at Norwood, Mass.,
Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of Oct

under the Act of March 3, 1879
ober 3, 1917, authorized, July 13, 1919

Boston Oﬂice, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

 

Vol. 66

If you are opposed to the mutilation of
horses by the cruel practice of setting-up
or docking their tails, chieﬂy for show pur-
poses, send us a postal for leaﬂets against
this cruelty.

We shall be seeking again next winter
through our state legislature a law forbid-
ding showing in this Commonwealth horses
with docked or set-up tails. We want the
help of every horse lover in Massachusetts
who will wisely distribute our literature
against this practice.

Report comes from Spain that a certain
town in the very section from which the
most of the bulls are secured, Andalusia,
has pulled down its bull-ring and built a
large, new school. The town is strongly
socialistic. Some day the bull-ﬁght will be
but a relic of barbarism.

India has just observed its sixth “Cow
Protection Week.” Hundreds of processions
of cows and other cattle passed through the
streets of many towns and villages. Lec-
tures and sermons were given showing the
religious and economic importance of the
cow in Indian life. Considered as a sacred
animal in India, the cow is not to be killed
but should be left to die a natural death.

Of the humane education work of the
Latham Foundation in the public schools of
Alameda County, California, David E. Mar-
tin, superintendent of that county’s schools,
says: “The results achieved have been re-
markable and the lasting effect of your con-
sistent, deﬁnite program will be felt
throughout the lives of the children who
have had intimate contact with this pro-
gram.”

The Next War. Government experts,
apparently the world over, are planning for
more and more deadly methods of destruc-
tion. The new riﬂe bullet will have a ve-
locity of 5,000 feet a second, as against
that of 2,700, the present speed. Dr. Wil-
son of the University of Minnesota says
surgeons of the next war must be ready for
this as the new bullet will shock and destroy
three times as much tissue as the old bullet.

November, 1933
The Set-up Tail

UR readers will remember the vigor-

ous campaign we put up last winter
aginst this cruel and senseless practice.
We sought a law prohibiting the showing
at any horse show in Massachusetts a horse
with a docked or set-up tail. If these horses
cannot be shown in prize rings and at exhi-
bitions the mutilation of their tails will
stop.

We felt conﬁdent our bill before the legis-
lature would pass. At the last minute rep-
resentatives of the Association of American
Horse Shows came to Boston and said, “We
are going to try to get the Association it—
self to stop showing such horses. If we can
do that, it will be far better than having
state after state take up the matter, caus—
ing years of delay and much expense to
both sides of the question. Hold up your
bill temporarily and if by October 1, 1933,
we have not been able to induce the Associ-
ation to act as we have suggested you may
put in your bill again and we can’t con-
sistently oppose it.” '

It is the ﬁrst of October now. We have
no word from the Association of American
Horse Shows. We are therefore starting
our campaign again against a practice that
merits the condemnation of every real
horse-lover in the land. Literature in be-
half of our bill will be sent to all who will
wisely distribute it, and above all attempt
to secure the favor of their representative
and senator for the measure. Please read
in another column a letter from a well-
known Canadian horse-man and horse-show
judge, Col. Timmis.

The Seoul Press reports the annual meet-
ing of the Chosen Branch of the S. P. C.
A., Korea. Though this Branch is sup—
ported by both foreigners and Japanese,
it is gratifying to read in the report of
the honorary secretary, Mrs. Hobbs, “We
rejoice to see the management and support
passing into the hands of Japanese and
Koreans, and look forward to the time when
they will say to us, ‘We can manage this
affair ourselves.’ ”

No. 11
An Evil of the Race Track :

EDERVAL narcotic ofﬁcers are reveal-

ing through their investigations a
cruelty long inﬂicted upon race-horses.
Seven arrests were made at the Arlington
Park track in Chicago recently. The evil
that is being attacked with vigor by the
Federal Government is what is known as
“doping.” It is disclosed that more than 200
horses in as many races have been given
drugs of various sorts, sometimes to stimu-
late and sometimes to reduce their speed.
Heroin, one of the worst opium derivatives,
seems to be the favorite drug. Cocaine
comes next. Hasheesh, known as the “killer
drug,” is also widely used.

Five indictments were obtained through a
Federal grand jury on August 18 against
men for giving these narcotics to race-
horses. It is charged that 250 race—horses
have been given narcotics at race-tracks in
Chicago and through the South and East.
Three men arrested at the Arlington Park
race have been sentenced to Leavenworth
Penitentiary for three years. Two other
men have been convicted and sent to the
penitentiary.

This is an evil of which the Federal au-
thorities say, “We are going to prosecute
to the limit and stamp out.” That this thing
has been going on for a long time on our
race-tracks has been thoroughly well
known by horsemen and others familiar
with the races. All horse lovers will re-
joice that the Federal Government through
its narcotic ofﬁcers is attacking this out-
rage upon one of man’s best friends.

0

Kindness to animals is not mere senti-
ment, but a requisite of a very ordinary
education. Nothing in arithmetic, grammar
or any branch of study is so important for
a child to learn as humaneness.

—J0mmal of Education

The lack of humane education is the prin-
cipal cause of crime.
HON. L. T. DASHIELL, Former Speaker of the
Texas House of Representatives

Join the Jack London Club and help stop the cruelty of trained animal acts.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 118
“ Dobbin Carries On”

MINNIE LEONA UPTON

On the quiet byways,
In the clanging mart,
Lonely roads or highways,
See old Faithful Heart!
Sure, and safe, and steady,
Wise, and kind, and strong,
S0 alert and ready—
“Prince,” or “Pa-l,” or “N eddy”—
Still he fares along.

Fifty thousand threading

The traﬁic, madly whirled,
Of that city heading

The Babels of our world!
Many, groomed, strong, shining,

Proudly do their part;
Some, with strength declining,
But not one repining,

Drag the shabby cart.

Where the ﬁelds lie, asking
Service manifold,

Ready for such tasking
Still a place they hold;

Freed from toil unswerving,
Shining-eyed they greet

The ﬂowing trough, low-curving

Wet with stout-heart serving—
Hear that whinny sweet!

Dear, dear burden-bearers,
Since history began
Given to be wayfarers
With weak and needful Man!
Chill machines’ endeavor
Leaves you still your grace;
Loveless things can never
Win our love, or ever
Fill your ancient place!

Lobsters—How to Cook

Put in Lukewarm Water and
I Bring to a Boil

ANY thousands of people in this and

other lands insist on eating the lob-
ster. What, or how much, a lobster suffers
by being dropped into boiling water no—
body knows, or can know.

The statement is made on the authority
of Joseph Sinel, late of the Jersey (Eng-
land) Marine Biological Survey, that the
lobster placed in lukewarm water, tempera-
ture from 100 to 130 degrees Fahrenheit,
gradually collapses without any struggle
and is dead long before the boiling point
is reached.

Experiment has been made with this
method at the Angell Memorial Animal
Hospital of the Massachusetts Society for
the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals by
our doctors. Two live fresh lobsters were
placed in water of 100 degrees Fahrenheit.
Within a few minutes without any struggle
they gave every evidence of being perfectly
unconsc10us. This method did not toughen
the meat as sometimes claimed. We never
tasted tenderer or better in every way.

This being the case, why should not this
plan be adopted wherever lobsters are to
be boiled? All possibility of suffering is
thus eliminated.

In broiling lobsters, since they are in-
stantly nearly severed in half by a knife
or cleaver that passes at once through the
brain and body, death must be instantaneous.

 

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Aug. 1933

The Ways of Wild Horses

SILVERQUILL

ETWEEN the northern boundary of

Montana and Old Mexico, a region

which embraces the states of Utah,
Idaho, Nevada, New Mexico, Arizona and
parts of California, there are said to be-
more than a million—some say two million——
wild horses, free as their own desert winds,
as unbranded as antelope, and as untamed
as the lightning. Over these empires of
Silence they roam as they list, their nos-
trils like twin sacraments and their necks
clothed with thunder.

Some conception of this vast region of
the Blue Still, and its untamed condition,
may be had when it is stated that, if one.
were to make, say, Boise City, Idaho, a
starting point, one could ride straight north
to the headwaters of the Yukon and never

 

“FREE AS THE DESERT WINDS”

cross a fence. Or one could go straight
south through Southern Idaho, Nevada,
Arizona and Old Mexico to the Paciﬁc ocean
and never have to turn aside for wire or
rail. Then one could go East. for .a thou—
sand miles with the same open spaces be-
fore him.

This will give some idea of the region
over which these untamed creatures roam,
a kingdom of the Wild many times the size
of Europe. These statements will seem like
exaggerations to those who have never vis-
ited these vast domains, yet, on a grand
scale of approximation they are absolutely
true.

The wild horse shares his territory with
the elk, deer, bear, cougar, and all the
other creatures of the wilderness. He hears
the singing of birds which keep far from
town, the crashing of antlers in deadly com-
bat, and the yapping of the coyote, that
little skulking gray brother of the wolf,
that greets the twilight and the breaking
of the day with his mournful cosmic cry.

Wild horses distribute themselves with a
nice eye to several things. Always there
must be plenty of grass, and several differ-
ent places to drink. Then, the country must

 

 

not be too rugged. A horse is too heavy
for mountain running. He selects his home
according to numbers. If there is a small
“band,” smaller grazing ground will do.
If there is a large “band,” he must have
more.

It is quite well known to those of us who
grew up with wild horses that they ob-
serve a clearly deﬁned social system and
order of family life which positively pre-
vents inter-breeding. They are organized
on the Patriarchal plan. The females are
collected into groups of from ten to ﬁfty,
and are always presided over by some
lordly male, that is sure to be a relentless
tyrant. These groups, which are usually
called “bands,” locate in some region which
strikes their fancy, and if not molested will
remain there indeﬁnitely.

If in a snowy country each “band” will
have a “summer range” and a “winter
range.” These are occupied according to the
seasons.

Having collected a nucleus for a follow-
ing, the male builds it up by many methods
well known to polite human society. For
instance, he will make long, solitary jour-
neys to some settlement, and endeavor to
lure away domestic stock, and in this he
is usually successful. With wide—open
mouth and ﬂattened ears he will drive these
stolen females to his “band,” and once they
have become members of his wilderness fra-
ternity these runaways from the ranches
immediately become as wild as the others.

Sometimes, as one knight stormed the cas-
tle of another, taking everything with it,
these Chieftains of the Unfenced will go
boldly and take by force the entire group
of another male. But no patriarch ever sur-
rendered his following without ﬁrst doing
wild battle with the invader. These com-
bats are ferocious and deadly in the ex-
treme, in which the gladiators rend each
other with their teeth and mangle one an-
other with their hoofs. If one goes down
the other will kneel upon him trying to
crush him with sheer weight.

But, when whipped, outclassed, the de-
feated one will wander about until he has
collected another following and found an-
other range.

There is also a process of weeding out
by which a male deletes his own offspring
from his “band.” These that are driven out
join other societies here and there, so that
there is a constant trading of members
going on all the time, between the different
groups. In this way wild horse blood is
kept perfectly pure. As the younger males
build up their “bands” new territory is pre-
empted, and so the growth of this species
is extended.

When some lone rider approaches one of
these groups the patriarch, always on the
lookout for danger, gives the snort of warn-
ing. The mothers paw their colts awake and
the “band” rushes together and dashes away
in the opposite direction. Usually the male
keeps between the intruder and his follow-
ing, driving in the laggards, and putting
the entire group at full speed.

The territory of one “band” is never in-
vaded by another “band.” These range
rights are strictly respected, so that each
male reigns in absolute splendor alone.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 116
No Fear in Their Eyes

By Miss NETTIE WYSOR, Dublin, Virginia

Awarded second prize, $15 cash, in prize contest of
’ OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Father Time and Mother Nature
(When I shut my eyes one day)

Laid their gray old heads together,
And I thought I heard them say:—

“Man has ever been too lordly

Toward the creatures he calls dumb,
Thanking God that he is different,

As he throws them bone or crumb.

“True, they do not speak his language,
But they make their wishes known
And declare their joy or sorrow
In a language of their own.

“Though he cannot give his reason,
You can trust a dog to know

Better than his human brother
Who’s his friend and who his foe.

“How could words be more expressive
Than the graces of a cat?

He can make it clear as noonday
What he thinks of this or that.

“In the noble breed of horses,
Who respond to touch of hand
Or a word that’s gently spoken—
It’s because they understand.

“All the wise, swift-footed creatures—
Such a power in friendship lies—
Came at old St. Francis’ bidding,
And no fear was in their eyes.

“He delighted in their beauty,

Learned of them and loved them well:
And today the law of kindness

Has not lost its magic spell.”

 

WINTER QUARTERS

 

Jack London Club in Japan

From Noémi P. Raymond, Vice-chairman
of Nippon Jindo Kai (Japan Humane So-
CIety) of Tokyo, came this letter:

Jack London Club:

Please enroll our names in the Jack Lon-
don Club. We have been members for years
in deed if not in name. Noémi P. Raymond;
Claude Raymond (7 years).

And kindly send us any pamphlet or

announcement relative to the work of the
Club.

Of course we were glad to send full in-
formation, as we are to send it at any time
to those in any part of the world who are
Interested in preventing the cruelties attend-
ant upon trained animal acts.

MR. RACCOON PEERING OUT OF HIS COZY

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Aug. 1933

‘Why I Have Posted My Woodlot

WALTER A. DYER

fess that an element of selﬁshness en-

tered in. I have friendly neighbors who
hunt. I do not object to their crossing my
land and I have never known them to do
any material damage to my property. It Is
out-of—town ﬁshermen in the spring that
break down my wire fences. I should prefer
to be obliging to my neighbors, but never-
theless I have posted my woods.

It is not a large tract of forest—perhaps
ten acres in all—but it is a genuine bit of
wilderness and we love it. We have cut a
trail through it which forms part of our
favorite walk. Wild ﬂowers grow along
this trail in abundance—wood anemones and
fringed polygalas and clumps of yellow
marsh marigolds in May, wood violets and
pink lady’s slippers in June, not to mention
ground pine, pipsissewa, checkerberries,
partridge berries, and a dozen varieties of
ferns.

And such wild life as we have seeks the
seclusion of this woodlot. Gray squirrels,
which the red squirrels have driven from
the vicinity of the barn, scurry about over-
head and a cotton—tail rabbit sometimes
scuttles across our path as
we approach. They fur-
nish amusement for our
dog, who has never harm-
ed one. Now and then a
woodchuck ventures in
from the meadows. I have
seen signs of foxes, too,
and I am always hopeful
of seeing a raccoon.

But I shall never see a
raccoon in those woods, or
a fox or a rabbit either,
if my neighbors make it
a hunting ground. I sup-
pose they want rabbits and
squirrels for food and
foxes for their pelts, but
I suspect that “sport” is
the real motive, and I have
little sympathy with that.
I want these animals for
their own sakes, and there-
in lies my selﬁshness. Half
the fun of owning a wood-
lot is sharing it with the
shy denizens of the wild.
That is a point of View dif-
ﬁcult to explain to my
hunting neighbors and so
I don’t try. I have merely posted,the wood—
lot and hope it will not create ill feeling. Af-
ter all, it is my woodlot, and if I see ﬁt to
make of it a sanctuary for wild creatures,
that is my business.

From the Massachusetts Audubon Society
I have obtained a number of posters printed
on cloth. They read as follows:

NO SHOOTING!

HUNTING, SHOOTING, TRAPPING

OR TRESPASSING
WITH FIREARMS OR TRAPS ON THIS PROPERTY

IS FORBIDDEN

AS PROVIDED IN 7

CHAPTER 131 OF THE GENERAL LAWS

There follows an excerpt from Section 123.
I suspect that this will sound more authori-
tative and prove more effective than the
ordinary “No Shooting” or “No Trespass-
ing” signs.

HDIDN’T do it to be mean, though I con-

 

And then there are the birds. This morn-
ing I heard a cheery whistle from some-
where down toward the woodlot. I called
my wife.

“Hear that?”

She listened. Again came the call: “Bob
White! Oh, Bob White!”

We looked at each other and grinned.

“Oh, if they would only come back to
stay,” said she.

Years ago the quail used to whistle all
over the farm, but the breed has been nearly
exterminated by my friends the hunters.
For many seasons we heard them no more.
Then last year, in late May, my‘ears caught
the welcome sound and later, in June, we
came suddenly on a little family of them in
the grass at the edge of the woodlot. They
erupted like a sort of explosion close to our
feet, the little chicks hurrying off in all
directions to lose themselves in the grass
while our dog was lured away by the crafty
mother who pretended that she had a bro-
ken wing and could be easily captured if the
dog would follow. He did, and the whole
family escaped unharmed.

There are ruffed grouse in our woods, too.
Often the dog ﬂushes one near the trail and
there is a great whirring of wings as she
vanishes among the branches. It is great
fun for the dog and exciting to us, and the
grouse suffers nothing more than a momen-
tary fright and, I believe, very little of that.

In the fall hunters come past my house
bearing trophies of the chase. Last year
Peter Rice stopped to show me a brace of
woodcock and a beautiful cock pheasant
that he had shot. I tried to congratulate
him, but the sight of dead loveliness sick-
ened me. A moment’s glimpse of a wild
bird means more to me than the possession
of a dead one. And so I have posted my
woods.

I cannot stop the hunting. I shall not
even scold my neighbors, for they know no
better. But I believe I have a right to pro—
tect the wild life on my own little domain,
and I propose to do so. I shall tell them
that it is just a queer hobby of mine and let
it go at that.

If any persons should come into my woods
and begin digging up laurel shrubs I should
scold them properly and drive them away,
and my neighbors would sympathize. I will
not allow them to pick my fringed gentians.
Haven’t I an equal right to conserve my
rabbits and my quail? Do I necessarily have
to give an explanation for my odd fancy?

I want my woods to be real woods—not
just trees, but a home for birds and animals
and ﬂowers. I want grouse just as I want
anemones and lady’s slippers there. They
all make a walk through the trail so much
more interesting. .

I have ceased to be afraid of being con-
sidered sentimental, but I am leaving hu-
manitarian arguments out of the present
picture. I have posted my woods because I
want to keep them natural for my own self-
ish enjoyment. I think the birds and the
squirrels will understand.

Vacationists everywhere are urged to see
to it that their family pets are provided for
when leaving home or summer cottage.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 94

@119 lﬁanh nf merry

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

E. A. MARYOTT, State Organizer
PLEDGE

I will try to be kind to all living creatures and try
to protect them from cruel usage.

The American Humane Education Society will send
to every person who forms a Band of Mercy of thirty
members, and sends the name chosen for the Band and
the name and post-ofﬁce address of the president who
has been duly elected, special Band of Mercy literature
and a gilt badge for the president.

See inside front cover for prices of literature and
Band of Mercy supplies.

NEW BANDS OF MERCY

Six hundred and seventy-eight new
Bands of Mercy were reported during
April. Of these, 232 were in Illinois, 187
in Vermont, 83 in Georgia, 7 4 in Virginia,
40 in Massachusetts, 26 in Rhode Island,
:25 in Pennsylvania, ﬁve in Tennessee, two
in Iowa, and one each in Minnesota,
Missouri, Oklahoma, and West Virginia.

Total number Bands of Mercy organized
\by Parent American Society, 194,801.

The Calvin Coolidge Band of Mercy, with
more than thirty members, has been organ-
ized in the Junior high school of Bakers-
ﬁeld, Vt. During Be Kind to Animals Week
this band took charge of the assembly in
Brigham Academy and put on a program
relating to animals. The sponsor, Mrs.
Frances Read, writes that in addition to
the club meetings, she correlates her Eng-
lish classes with humane education to the
unbounded enthusiasm of her pupils.

Brave Dogs of England
MR.S. E. R. ADAMSON

G F special interest at a recent dog show
in England was a section marked off
by the sign: “V. C. dogs. Heroes every
one!”

Here were to be seen members of the
canine family of many sorts and sizes——
.all the way from a Great Dane of highest
pedigree to a little mongrel Skye terrier.
Seventeen in all, and each wearing the
same sort of collar—a blue leather one
with a dangling silver medal which read:
“For Bravery.”

These dogs were all members of the
Victoria Cross Club for dogs, organized
'two years ago by a great London weekly.
Membership is limited to dogs who have
actually risked their lives to save a human
being. Since its foundation only twenty-
four dogs have been given the coveted col-
lar. Some of these dogs have performed
,deeds of the greatest heroism. In the big
book, containing the Club’s “Roll of Hon-
or,” may be found the name of each dog
member, and the record of his deed.

. “Bob” rescued a baby from a miry gravel
pit. “Jack” saved a boy from drowning.
“Bruno” watched over a child lost in a
forest until it was found by its parents.
"‘Tinker” stopped a run-away horse by
grabbing it by the bridle. Last but not
least 18 “Nip,” who gave timely warning
to his master and mistress, when the house
was on ﬁre at night, by scratching at their
door and barking loudly. In making his
own escape this faithful dog had to jump
"from an upstairs balcony and so injured his

legs that he has had to wear leg supports
«ever smce.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Dog Friends

SOLVEIG PAULSON

As I go whistling down the street

I have so many friends to greet,

Perhaps they’d be just dogs to you,

To me they’re friends and all true blue.

A happy bark, a friendly tail,
Straightforward eyes to greet my hail,
Each one all eagerness to please,

I’m proud to have such friends as these.

I think it’s sad all men don’t know
The qualities that dogs can show,
But as for me, my day’s more sweet
Because I have such friends to greet.

The Perfect Pet

JOHN P. DINNENY

0 pet is so charming, none so desir—
N able in the quiet home as the cat.
Graceful and beautiful to look upon; dainty
in taste and unobtrusive in manner, he is
as welcome in the study or drawing—room
as in the kitchen.

Yet cats are generally misunderstood.
They are presumed to be incapable of
friendships and attachments, but the con-
trary is the truth. To be sure, puss is not
demonstrative; he does not kiss the hand
that beats him. Nor does he express his
emotions by barking, leaping and knocking
one down. But the quiet rubbing against
his friend, the gentle touch of his tongue,
mean quite as much as the more raucous
greeting.

The cat-mother’s kindness to the young
of other animals is a well—known fact. She
will adopt into her family chickens, ducks,
squirrels, puppies, and even rats, and lav-
ish a care upon them no less than upon
her own brood. Moreover, she forms friend-
ships of the warmest sort; not only with
dogs and horses, but with turkeys and
fowls, readily giving up her warm bed by
the ﬁre to share the cold quarters of her
friends.

' Puss’ intelligence has been questioned,
compared usually with the dog as being
much less bright. The truth is he is too
knowing to be driven to learn. Kindness
and coaxing can teach him more than can
be taught his canine

friend. If struck, he V
turns sulky; if fright-
ened, he doe-s nothing.
And there is no ques-
tion as to his useful-
ness to mankind. In
many business enter-
prises cats are as much
a ﬁxture as the electric
lights for the money
they save their owners.
If the whole cat race ; * -
should be wiped out
the world would be
speedily brought to a
realization of the value
of the services, hither—
to not properly appre-
ciated. The perfect
pet, indeed!

Do not forget your
cat when moving.

ALL SPICK AND SPAN FOR THE PICTURE MAN ’

June, 1933

The Canary in the Earthquake

HARRY R. PETERSON

ECAUSE Principal George B. Crawford

of the Lincoln School, at Long Beach,

California, was willing to risk the danger

of falling walls and balancing bricks to

save a bird, “Dickey,” pet canary of the

ﬁrst grade will sing again to pupils when
schools open in the stricken city.

Dickey’s cage hung from a standard in
one of the ground-ﬂoor rooms. In the
earthquake, Friday evening, March 10, the
building was partially demolished. Walls
caved in, the auditorium collapsed, and
fallen masonry littered the ﬂoors.

Without his usual allowance of seed and
water from the Lincoln caretaker, Dickey
endured the stress of the earthquake, all
alone. Strangely enough, his standard did
not upset. When Mr. Crawford tiptoed
into the school the following Sunday, seized
the cage and hurried out again, the bird
was singing his usual song, in the midst of
the ruins.

Dickey was given relief rations at the
principal’s home and, when the temporary
structures on the school grounds are com-
pleted, will be given a place of honor in
the new class—room.

A Sea-Going Pet Hotel

FRANK H. CROSS

NOVEL service on the Grace Line’s

magniﬁcent new liner, Santa Elena,
is rendered in a specially built steel house
for pets on top of the boat deck. Roomy,
individual apartments are provided for
dogs and other pets in this steel house,
which is described by the company as a
“comfortable sea-going pet hotel.”

The dog compartments are fully equip-
ped with running water and provided with
controlled ventilation devices to supply
cold air in the tropics and warm air in the
cooler zones.

The dog passengers on the great liner
receive individual attention from the dog
steward. They are fed on a special diet
and every day they are taken for a run to
stretch their sea legs on a section of the
deck reserved exclusively for their use.

 

‘\
l.
(

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

H.C. HAM
J. L. HAM
A. L. HAM

PAPER

10 High Street, - Boston

 

 

 

 

 

 

Charles W. Broadbent CO.
SURGICAL SUPPLIES
Six Sixty Five Huntington Avenue

BOSTON - - - - MASS-

 

 

 

 

 

hole library Of the best humane reading
A Wis available in the bound volume Of

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

1932, with 192 pages, 200 illustrations,
fall for $1.00, sent to any address 1n the
world. Address,

Our Dumb Animals,180 Longwood Ave.,Boston

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The Friend}; f
Every Mother 903?
a Who

tie“‘. Values Her

0“ Children’s Skin Health

° 25c. Sample free. Address:
faiictticura," Dept. 6K, Maiden, Mass.

 

 

 

A---A-A

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Established 1868

JAMES FORGIE’S SONS

17 Merchants Row
Boston, Mass.
HARNESS.

ENGLISH SADDLERY. AND
EVERYTHING FOR THE HORSE

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

A Safe Investment

Why not invest your money where
you will receive a fair return while
you live, and where, after you are
gone, it will be safe from contests and
devoted to a cause near to your heart?
Write for particulars of the Annuity
plans of either the American Humane
Education Society or of the Massa-
chusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 180 Longwood
Avenue, Boston.

(This advertisement paid for by a Boston
ﬁrm.)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Since 1832

J. S. WATERMAN & SONS, INC.

@thertakers

BOSTON—BROOKLINE—CAMBRIDGE
City and Out-Of-Town Service

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

throughout the country.

180 Longwood Avenue

 

 

The Outstanding Film to Illustrate Kindness to Animals

THE BELL OF ATRI

Nobody could be more surprised than the producers that this ﬁlm,
after years Of exhibition on ﬁve Continents, continues to be in demand

Reduced rates for rentals until October 1, 1933. Films for sale at
practically cost price—all styles. Please state Whether safety, 35 mm.,
or the small, 16 mm. size, is required.

AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY

Boston, Mass.

 

 

 

 

Humane literature and Band of Mercy Supplies

For sale by the American Humane Education Society and the Massachusetts S. P. C. A.,

180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass, at these prices, postpaid.

Titles in bold-face type are of books or booklets

Our Dumb Animals, 1932, bound volume $1.00
Our Dumb Animals, January to Decem-

ber, 1929, 1930, and 1931, bound in

cloth, special, each ............... , .75
Colored Posters, 17x28 inches, with

attractive pictures and verses, six in

the set ........................ ... $1.00
Be Kind to Animals Blotters, 61/gx3%..$0.50 per 100

About the Horse

Black Beauty (English), cloth, 45 cents; paper, 20 cts.
The Shame Of it—Mutilating the horse

by setting up his tail. Dr. ROWley’s

protest against this cruelty for fash-

ion’s sake. Four illus., 4 pp. ........ Free
What Constitutes Cruelty, Francis H.

Rowley .............................. $0.30 per 100
Humane Horse Book, 32 pp., 5 cts.

each or ............................. 5.00 “ “
The Horse~Treatment of Sores, Dis-

eases, etc. ........................... .60 “ “
Humane Education Leaﬂet NO. 5 ...... .50 “ ‘:
The Horse’s Prayer ................... .30 “ ‘
The Bell Of Atri, poem by Longfellow .50 “ “
The Care of Mules .................... .50 “ “

About the Dog

Beautiful Joe, new, illus., $1.50 ..... small, 50 cts.
Distemper in Dogs, Dr. Schneider ..... Free
Rabies vs. Running Fits, Dr. Schneider Free

Eulogy on the Dog, by Vest, post-card . $1.00 per 100
The Dog—Its Care in Health and Disease .60 “ “
Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 3 and 4 .50 “ “

What the Chained Dog Says ........... .50 “ “

The Story Of Barry .................... .30 “ “
About the Bird

The Trial Of the Birds, play ............ $2.00 per 100

Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 1 and 2 .50 “ “

How the Birds Help the Farmer ........ .50 “ “

The Air-gun and the Birds ............. .50 “ “

About the Cat

The Cat—Its Care in Health and Disease $0.60 per 100
A Letter to Owners Of Cats ........... .30 “ “

The Cat in Literature ................ .50 “ “
DO Not Leave Your Cat to Starve ...... .50 “ “
“The Beggar Cat,” post-card, 6 cts. per

doz. ................................. .50 “ “

About Other Animals

Prince Rudolf’s Quest, Kenniston, 150

pp., special ..................... boards, 50 cts.
The Strike at Shane’s, cloth, 30 cts. . .paper, 7 cts.
Michael Brother of Jerry, Jack London, cloth, 75 cts.
Jack London Club Poster, 22 x 32 inches

one for 15 cts., two for 25 cts., ﬁve or

more ................................ each, 10 cts.
First Aid to Animals, Dr. Schneider, 8 pp. $1.00 per 100
What is the Jack London Club? .30 “ “
Foreword from “Michael Brother of

Jerry” .............................. .30 “ “
Gripped in the Teeth of Steel, 2 pp. 1.00 “ “
How to Kill Animals Humanely, 4 pp. 1.00 “ “
Humane Education Leaﬂet, No. 6, Ani-

mals ................................ .50 “ “
Humane Education Leaﬂet, NO. 7, Farm
Animals ............. _ ............. .50 “ “

Please enclose remittance wi

About Other Animals~Continued
Ways Of Kindness . ................ $0.50 per 100
Why the Toad is so Useful ............. .30 " “
“Empty Tin Cans,” card ............. Free
Humane Education
The Humane Bulletin, for use in schools,
96 pp. .. ........ . . . . .12 cents each; ten for $1.00
Care and Kindness for Our Animal
Friends, 29 pp., paper covers, many
illus. . . . . . . .15 cents each; seven for $1.00
Kindness Picture Book, 32 pp.
15 cents each; seven for $1.00
The Teacher’s Helper in Humane Edu-
cation, 32 pp.

. . . . ............... each, 10 cts.
Humane Education—for Parents and

'Teachers, 20 pp. ................. each, 10 cts.
Picture Lesson Cards, each, 10 cts., set

of eight ............ . . . . .......... 35 cts.
“Be Kind to Animals” Pennants ....... each, 25 cts.
“Be Kind to Animals” Placards ........ each, 3 cts.

he Humane Idea, Dr. Francis H.

Rowley ................ cloth, 35 cts. ; paper, 15 cts.
Friends and Helpers (selections for

school use), Sarah J. Eddy ........... cloth, 96 cts.
Animals as Seen by the Poets, Guy

Richardson, 32 pp ....... cloth, 35 cts. ; paper, 10 cts.
Address to Boston Public Schools ...... $2.00 per 100
Lessons on Kindness to Animals ........ 0 “ “

3.0
The B—K—T——A Club, play,. . .3 cts. each ; ten for 25c.
Fred Changes His Mind, play, 5 cts. each ; six for 25 cts.
“And a Little Child Shall Lead Them,”
play ..................... 3 cts. each ; six for 15 cts.
Friends Of Fur and Feather, play,
3 cts. each ; ten for 25 cts.
Humane Day in Schools, with class-room
project, 8 pp. .......................
Exercises for Humane Day, 1933 ......
Humane Education the Vital Need, Dr.
Rowley, short radio address, 3 cts. each; 1.50 “ “
Our Little Brothers and Sisters, sermon
for boys and girls, by Dr. Jefferson,

$2.00 per 100
2.00 6‘ l‘

4 pp. ............................... .50 “ “
Humane Education, What to Teach and

HOW to Teach It .................... .50 “ “
Early Lessons in Kindness or Cruelty .. .50 “ “
Outlines of Study in Humane Education,

8 pp. ............................... 1.50 “ “
A Talk with the Teacher .............. .50 “ “
The Coming Education ................. .30 “ “
Our Love for Animals, a short radio

address ................... 5 cts. each; 2.50 “ “
A Festival of Tender Mercies ......... .50 “ “
A Great Prophecy, Dr. Rowley ........ Free

Band of Mercy
“Be Kind to Animals” Buttons, three
styles—Band of Mercy, Humane SO-
ciety, or S. P. C A

. . ................ $1.00 per 100
Buttons—white star on blue ground with

gilt letters and border, one cent each . 1.00 “ “
Badges, gold ﬁnish, large, 10 cts. ...... small, 5013:.
“Band Of Mercy” Pennant ............ 35 cts.

Songs of Happy Life, with Music, S.
J Edd 50 cts.

Songs of Happy Life (56 pages, words

on y ................................ $3.00 per 100
Band of Mercy Membership Card ..... .50 “ “ .
HOW to Form Bands of Mercy ......... .50 “ “
Does it Pay, story Of one Band Of Mercy .30 “ “

th orders for less than $1

AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY, 180 Longwood Ave., Boston, Mass.

 

 

 




 

Oct. 1933

 

Founded by Geo. T. Angell. Incorporated March, 1868

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds
JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman, Chase Harris Forbes
Corporation
CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President, United Shoe
Machinery Corporation
PHILIP STOCKTON, President, First National Bank of
Boston

Prosecuting Ofﬁcers in Boston
Telephone (Complaints, Ambulances) Longwood 6100
L. WILLARD WALKER, Chief Oﬁ‘icer
HARRY L. ALLEN DAVID A. BOLTON

HARVEY R. FULLER HOWARD WILLAND
WALTER B. POPE

County Prosecuting Ofﬁcers

HERMAN N. DEAN, Boston,

Middlesex, Norfolk and Plymouth
FRED T. VICKERS, Lynn Eastern Essex
WILLIAM W. HASWELL, Methuen Western Essex
THEODORE W. PEARSON, Springﬁeld,

Hampden, Hampshire and Franklin

ROBERT L. DYSON, Worcester, Worcester
WINFIELD E. DUNHAM, New Bedford, Bristol
HAROLD G. ANDREWS, Hyannis,

Barnstable, Dukes and Nantucket
EDWIN D. MOODY, Pittsﬁeld Berkshire

Rest Farm for Horses and Small Animal Shelter,
Methuen
W. W. HASWELL, Superintendent
Women’s Auxiliary of the Mass. S. P. C. A., 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston—MRS. EDITH WASHBURN

CLARKE, Pres.; MRS. A. J. FURBUSH, Treas.; MRS.
AGNES P. FISHER, Ch. Work Com.

Springﬁeld Branch—MRS. DONALD C. KIBBE, Pres.;
MRS. AARON BAGG, Treas.

Winchester Branch—MRS. RICHARD S. TAYLOR,
Pres.; MISS BESSIE SMALL, Treas.

MONTHLY REPORT OF OFFICERS

Miles traveled by humane Oﬂicers. . 15,713
Cases investigated ............... 402
Animals examined .............. 4,813
Number of prosecutions .......... 13
Number of convictions .......... 11
Horses taken from work .......... 2 1
Horses humanely put to sleep ..... 34
Small animals humanely put to
sleep ........................ 1,773
Stock-yards and Abattoirs
Animals inspected .............. 45,673
Cattle, swine and sheep humanely
put to sleep .................. 17

The Massachusetts Society for the Pre-
vention Of Cruelty to Animals has been
remembered in the wills of Mrs. Ida A.
Smith of Salem, Maurice H. Klous Of
Brookline, Carrie Ella Smith of Charles-
town, and Emma A. Green of Keene, N. H.

September 12, 1933

If God should ask me how I had employed
my days", I should reply, “Lord, I have told
the history of the animals with which you
have ﬁlled the universe, and I have in-
creased the domain of the birds by planting
trees.” BUFFON

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

Angell Memorial Animal Hospital
and
Dispensary for Animals

184 Longwood Avenue Telephone, Longwood 6100

Veterinarians

F. DAILEY, v.M.D., Chief
H. SCHNEIDER, v.M.D., Asst. Chief
F. SCHROEDER, D.V.M.
. M. EVANS, D.V.S.
B. SCHNELLE, v.M.D.
O. MUNSON, v.M.D.
HARRY L. ALLEN, Superintendent

Springﬁeld Branch

53-57 Bliss Street, Springﬁeld, Mass.

THEODORE W. PEARSON, General Manager
A. R. EVANS, v.M.D., Veterinarian

HPSF’JFUF

 

 

 

HOSPITAL REPORT FOR AUGUST
Including Springﬁeld Branch

Hospital Dispensary
Cases entered 766 Cases 2,502
Dogs 547 Dogs 2,015
Cats 206 Cats 434
Birds 5 Birds 43
Horses 4 Marmoset 3
Goats 3 Sheep 2
Raccoon 1 Rabbits 2

Horses 2
Operations 958 Rat 1

Hospital cases since opening, Mar.

1, 1915 ...................... 113,428
Dispensary Cases .............. 257,055
Total ........................ 370,483

MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A. IN THE
COURTS

Summary of Prosecutions for August

A trainer of horses was charged in court
with cruelly beating a horse, the animal
showing welts upon its body. Defendant
pleaded not guilty but was convicted. He
appealed and later paid of ﬁne of $15.

For failing to provide food for his cat
and abandoning it by moving away, an
Offender was found guilty. Upon payment
of $5 as costs of court, the case was placed
on ﬁle.

The owner Of an aged, feeble horse that
was unﬁt for labor had agreed with humane
Ofﬁcer to put the animal away but did not
do so. He was summoned to court and found
guilty. Case ﬁled and horse ordered killed.

For cruelty to a dog by throwing hot
water upon him, a defendant was convicted
and ﬁned $7.80, which was the amount of
the veterinary’s bill for care of the animal.

Transporting cattle upon a vehicle in an
unnecessarily cruel manner, defendant
pleaded guilty and was ﬁned $10.

For cruelly wounding a dog by shooting
it with a .22 riﬂe, defendant guilty and put
on probation for six months.

Selling at private sale, a horse when un-
ﬁt for labor by reason of old age, debility
and lameness, Offender was ﬁned $15 and
horse was ordered killed.

Knowingly and wilfully subjecting a dog
to unnecessary cruelty and suffering (hit-
and-run case), driver of car pleaded nolo
and was ﬁned $25.

Failing to provide two cats with proper
food and drink, the man who had charge of
them was ﬁned $25 and given one month’s
time to pay ﬁne.

Unnecessarily failing to provide food and
shelter for his horse, a defendant, who had
tied animal in swamp and gone to New
York for seven days, was ﬁned $20. The
animal was found in starved condition and
put away.

For cruelly beating a horse an Offender
who pleaded “not guilty” was found guilty
and the case was placed on ﬁle.

Page 153
The Springfield Bird Hospital

RITING of the closing Of this well-

known hospital which has done so
much for the birds of Massachusetts, mi-
grants Or residents, due to the illness of
Miss Coburn who gave so much Of her life
to it, together with her friend, Miss In-
graham, and lack of funds, the Massachu-
setts Audubon Bulletin says:

“We ﬁnd there is an ample room in the
new Animal Hospital of the M. S. P. C. A.
branch on Bliss Street in Springﬁeld, which
the Society is willing to convert into a bird
hospital, provided funds can be raised to
pay for a keeper.”

Here would seem to be an especially valu-
able opportunity for the kind—hearted folk
of the Connecticut Valley to rally to the sup-
port Of the local birds and continue this
valuable humane teaching. In the nature of
things a bird hospital can give practical
service to the birds Of a given region only,
and its maintenance becomes largely a local
problem.

What a ﬁne Opportunity for establishing
a department at our Springﬁeld Animal
Hospital a Memorial Fund in memory of
some lover Of birds!

Water for Horses

Attendants at the Massachusetts S. P. C.
A. horse-watering stations collectively re-
port that 8,302 animals were served with
refreshing drinks during the last twenty-
four working-days in August. This sum—
mer service of relief, as so many know, is
indispensable. It is made necessary by the
utter absence of fountains and troughs
where animals formerly could obtain water.
The total number of horses receiving bene-
ﬁt from our stations up to September 9,
when the service stopped, is 25,281.

Mock Bull-fight Suppressed

A mock bull-ﬁght was prevented from
taking place in New Bedford, Mass, as a
feature at a recent Sunday carnival. While
its promoters had arranged for a rather
tame exhibition, which consisted of racing
several bulls around a ring and exciting
the-m with red ﬂags, they at once decided
to scratch the event from their program
after consulting with Ofﬁcer Winﬁeld E.
Dunham of the Massachusetts S. P. C. A.
Mr. Dunham’s opinion of such an affair was
that it would constitute animal torment and
so was not permissible under the law of
this state.

Forsaken

The following is a copy of the printed
card hundreds of which our Society posts
each year, during August, at the majority of
summer resorts throughout Massachusetts:

REWARD OF $20
Offered by the

Massachusetts Society for the Prevention
of Cruelty to Animals

for evidence which will convict for the
criminal offense of

ABANDONING A CAT

FRANCIS H. ROWLEY
President of the Massachusetts
Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals

180 Longwood Avenue, Boston

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

i7

Pagel36
Our Dumb Animals

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston ofﬁce; 180 Longwood .Av-
enue, Boston, Mass., to which all communications
should be addressed.

Dr. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON, Editor
WILLIAM M. MORRILL, Assistant

 

SEPTEMBER, 1933

 

FOR TERMS, see back cover.

AGENTS to take orders for Our Dumb Animals are
wanted everywhere. Liberal commissions are offered.

EDITORS of all periodicals who receive this pub-
lication this month are invited to reprint any of the
articles with or without credit.

MANUSCRIPTS relating to animals, particularly
prose articles of about three hundred words, are 80110-
ited. We do not wish to consider prose manuscripts
longer than 800 words, nor verse in excess of thirty-
six lines. The shorter the better. All manuscripts
should be typewritten and an addressed envelope with
full return postage enclosed with each offering.

 

 

To Work for Humaner
‘Methods in Slaughtering
Food Animals

E have heard recently of what may
prove a nation-wide movement to

bring about such methods in the slaughter-
ing of our food animals as will reduce their
suﬁerings to the least possible degree. It is
to secure the pledge of thousands of people
to cut down their consumption of meat at
least 10 per cent until such methods are em-
ployed in the slaughter-houses of the coun-
try. Something has been done by some of the
packing-houses of the land toward humaner
methods, but the progress has seemed too
slow to satisfy the members of the humane
organizations of the country.

This movement is similar to one already
started in Europe and which has enlisted
much co-operation and support.

The Motoring Dog

Under this title a dog owner, and we are
sure a dog lover, writes to the Boston
Traveler the following excellent letter:

Many dogs nowadays are motorists, and it
is worth while for their owners to bear in
mind a few little points that make or mar
the motoring dog’s enjoyment:

(1) Always carry a drinking vessel in
the car for the dog’s use. Dogs need plenty
of water.

(2) Never leave a dog in a parked car
if it can be avoided. They are unnecessary
as guards in a proper parking place. On
the rare occasions when it is felt that a
dog must be left in a car, see that the ve—
hicle is in the shade (making due allowance
for the changing position of the sun) and
that ample ventilation is given. Quite a
number of dogs have been suffocated
through neglect of these precautions.

(3) The fondness of dogs for leaning out
of a car window to catch the breeze should
be discouraged. It is the cause of a con—
siderable amount of eye trouble.

DOG OWNER
Boston

0

Our readers are urged to clip from “Our
Dumb Animals” various articles and re-
quest their local editors to republish.
Copies so mutilated will be made good by
us upon application.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

The Abandoned Cat

HE heartlessness of it! Yet it is done

year by year by literally thousands of
people all over the country. People, too,
who would be quite insulted if told they
were deliberately or heedlessly cruel—yes,
violators of the law. Who do we mean?
The people who heartlessly will drive away
from their summer camp or cottage and
leave their cat behind to shift for itself
through fall and winter. Near relatives to
these people are those who leave their city
or town places of residence in the early
summer for some country resort. Read this
from the San Francisco Chronicle:

Go out to the Pound, you selﬁsh, hard—
hearted, inconsiderate people who abandon
cats, and look into the lonesome faces—
faces of left-over cats, deserted cats. There
are 1,905 of them. Count ’em. More than
1,900 cats whose owners have just beat it
out of town and left the poor animals to
starve or die from thirst. The City Pound
has collected them and is keeping them,
hoping the owners will come for them. There
are hundreds more scuttling through streets
and alleys that the Pound has not yet
captured.

The Pound has only 417 dogs, but it has
1,905 cats and every cat is an indictment
against some person living in San Francisco.
That’s a nice Fourth of July thought to
mull over.

If this is true of San Francisco, think of
what the story would be if to this number
were added all the other unfortunate cats of
all the other cities and towns in the United
States. To call the attention of our readers
to this is to do what too many preachers
have to do, preach to sinners before an audi-
ence of—at least supposedly—saints.

Kind Words for Our Pictures

Under the caption, “Perfect Animal
Photos,” a writer in the Press, Bristol,
Conn., has this to say about our July issue:

I have been using a camera for years
and manage to secure passably good pic-
tures, but never have I been able to secure
such perfect ones of animals as those that
appear in Our Dumb Animals of Boston, a
publication devoted wholly to the interests
of animals and the stimulation of sentiment
on the part of humans that makes for con—
sideration of them. I know of no other
publication that in this specialty is superior
to O. D. A. The half-tone plates and the
printing are of course superb, but this
necessitates perfect photographs to begin
with. I would suggest to any one interested
that they look up the July issue, just out,
and take a look at the cover picture, “Her
Staunch Protectors,” and “Their First
Picture,” on page 109. One cannot help
admiring them for their artistry, human
interest and technical perfection.

Both the pictures referred to above Came
to us from Mr. E. D. Putnam, well-known
photographer of Antrim, N. H.

Rabbits and other small animals are slow
in learning to cross highways cautiously.
They misjudge the speed of automobiles,
and they are bewildered by the glare of
headlights. Even birds in ﬂight are fre-
quently victims of the speeding autos.

Sept. 1933

Annual Humane Convention

REPARATIONS are rapidly being

completed for the annual meeting of
the American Humane Association at Hart-
ford, Conn., October 10, 11 and 12. It will
be the ﬁrst convention to be held in Hart-
ford, where the Connecticut Humane Society
will act as hosts. Headquarters will be at
Hotel Bond Where all the sessions will be
held. '

Tuesday forenoon and afternoon and
evening and Wednesday morning will be
given over to the children’s work, while
Wednesday afternoon and Thursday morn-
ing and afternoon will be devoted to prob-
lems connected with animal work. On Wed-
nesday evening there will be a dinner at
which Charles A. Goodwin, president of the
Connecticut Society, will preside. The chief
speaker will be Dr. Francis H. Rowley,
president of the Massachusetts S. P. C. A.

Among those who will address the Con-
vention on various phases of animal pro-
tection work will be Dr. Robert S. Mac-
Kellar, chairman of the executive committee
of the American Veterinary Medical Asso-
ciation, New York City; Miss Frances E.
Clarke, director of humane education,
American S. P. C. A., New York; Edward
A. Preble of the American Nature Associa-
tion; Mrs. E. T. Simondetti whose subject
is “The Progress of Animal Work in Italy;”
M. W. Skipper, general secretary of the
Maryland S. P. C. A., Baltimore; Dr. W. A.
Young, veterinarian, Animal Rescue League,
Boston; Miss Blanche Weiss, assistant sec—
retary, Pennsylvania S. P. C. A., Philadel-
phia; J. Seth J ones, general manager, Con-
necticut Humane Society, Hartford; W. J.
Dethloff‘, superintendent, Wisconsin Hu-
mane Society, Milwaukee; and Mrs. Blanche
Scott Lee, general manager, Humane So-
ciety of Southwestern Iowa, Council Bluffs.

Captive Animals Again

An interested correspondent of Our Dumb
Animals requests that we call attention to
the number of unfortunate captive animals
at Atlantic City, N. J. These are found
on the piers and at gasoline stations. The
case of a chained bear “out in the boiling
sun all day long with nothing but a hard
pavement and a tiny house to lie in,” par-
ticularly distresses humane observe-rs. Un-
happily, Atlantic City is not the only place
where these poor animals are to be seen,
exploited for ﬁnancial gain. Usually the
keepers are just within the law so that hu-
mane societies cannot produce sufﬁcient evi-
dence to prosecute. Perhaps if enough visi-
tors to Atlantic City would protest to the
local Chamber of Commerce, threatening to
Withdraw patronage from that popular re-
sort, something would be done to change
the conditions under which these animals
are kept.

Relief for Work-Horses

During the past month and up to August
5, our watering stations in Boston, at each
of which a man is employed, report that
horses were given refreshing drinks 10,143
times. Who will mark these ﬁgures? We
know of no greater or more timely service
that can be rendered in aid of needy and
well-deserving animals than to provide them
with one of life’s greatest essentials.

 




 

 

 

 

 

AUGUST 1933 PRICE 10 CENTS

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THE DOGS WHO WON MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A. MEDALS (See page 117)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THE MASSACHUSETTS SOCIETY FOR THE

PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS
AND THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY

 




 

 

 

 

 

Apr. 1933

Vestigia

I took a day to search for God,

And found Him not. But as I trod
By rocky ledge, through woods untamed,
Just where one scarlet lily ﬂamed,

I saw His footprint in the sod.

Then suddenly, all unaware,
Far 0]?” in the deep shadows, where

A solitary hermit thrush

Sang through the holy twilight hush——
I heard His voice upon the air.

And even as I marveled how
God gives us Heaven here and now,
In a stir of wind that hardly shook
The poplar leaves beside the brook——
His hand was light upon my brow.

At last with evening as I turned
Homeward, and thought what I had learned
And all that there was still to probe—

I caught the glory of His robe
Where the last ﬁres of sunset burned.

Back to the world with quickening start
I looked and longed for any part

In making saving Beauty be . . .

And from that kindling ecstasy
I knew God dwelt within my heart.

BLISS CARMEN

India’s Great Animal Show

RIVANDRUM in the state of Travan-

core, India, is annually the scene of
an Animal Show held under the auspices of
the S. P. C. A. This year’s exhibition ex-
ceeded all former events in the number and
variety of animal exhibits. Interest in it
extended far beyond provincial bounds and
was so great as to induce the Associated
Press of India to broadcast its importance
throughout the Empire.

Formerly only the domestic large animals
and beasts of burden were exhibited and
awarded the prizes. At the recent Show
exhibits more than doubled the preceding
year and comprised 215 pet animals, includ-
ing birds, dogs, cats, rabbits, pigs, ﬁshes,
monkeys, in extraordinary variety.

The prize donors included His Highness
the Maharaja and a long list of native and
European names. The winners were the
Maharaja, for his horses and the cattle
belonging to the government and 158 others.

Looking at this list, one recalls that to
the orthodox Hindu, the favorite animal
has been either a milch cow or a milch
buffalo or goat. The dog or the cat has
been generally a condemned animal, and
neither of them is encouraged by the Hindu.
But this year, Sir C. P. Ramaswamy Iyer,
a Brahmin, be it noted—has broken the
me by offering the ﬁrst prize for the dog.
Also, the majority of the prizes for cats
were donated by Hindus.

The ﬁrst prize for dogs was won by H. H.
the Junior Maharani. This remarkable
change marks a greatly increasing regard
for all animals. It really shows that the
inhabitants of Trivandrum are humani-
tarians in the broadest sense.

Because of vacation during Be Kind to
Anlmals Week, Superintendent Campbell
has designated Thursday, April 18, as Hu—
mane Day in the schools of Boston.

OUR

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

DUMB ANIMALS

Page 59

 

Guests of Our Springfield Hospital

them through the building and gave them
a short talk about animals and our rela-
tion to them.

Two classes from the Williams Street
School visited our Springﬁeld Hospital re-
cently. Mr. Pearson, in charge, showed

 

Others Have Left Worse Me-

morials to Themselves
V. KARAPETOFF

Suggested by visits to the beautiful cemeteries in
Milan and Genoa, in July, 1932.

OMETIME, long after my death, a

group of well-meaning though mis-
guided persons may decide to erect a statue
to me, in recognition of some evil which I
could have done but was too lazy to do.
Here is how I should like such a memorial
to look, in order to have at least some artis—
tic value, if not historical truth:

I want the sculptor to show me sitting on
a comfortable garden bench, in my old
wrinkled trousers, and an unbuttoned soft
shirt, without a necktie, with comfortable
house slippers on my feet. If the artist be
skilled in shaping Roman togas and scrolls,
let him use his skill on the next client.

A famished child in rags should be shown
sitting by my side, under my right arm,
leaning on me and munching a sandwich.
With my left hand let me hold a shaggy
alley kitten on my lap. One of my thumbs
should be kept pressed down by a concealed
spring, to insert a fresh ﬂower now and
then. A medium-sized dog of compound
pedigree, and without a tax tag, should be
placed at my feet, looking with conﬁdence
into my eyes and wagging his tail (electric-
ally operated, on holidays only).

The background should be a rock garden
with trickling water (if the maintenance
funds can be trickled enough to make the
water trickle). In front of the statue some
artistic landscape planting should‘be pro-
vided, with at least one small patch in bloom
at a time, from the early spring to the late
fall, from snowdrops to Chrysanthemums.
This is to commemorate my failure in this
respect in my own garden.

A bird-bath should be a prominent part
of the design, for I could not be happy, even
in marble or in bronze, if I did not see my
feathered friends splashing and drinking in
their funny inefﬁcient way. . .

The inscription should consist of a couple
of unimportant dates skilfully concealed in
Latin numerals, and of a sentence to read
in the phonetic spelling of the future days:
“Because he worshipped the Unknowable,
he loved all its manifestations.”

Domestic Life of Birds

IRDS have their family squabbles,

their weddings and divorces, and even
cases of bigamy are not unusual, according
to Prof. R. Owen Merriman, of Queen’s Uni-
versity, in an address before the Province of
Quebec Society for the Protection of Birds.
Although there is no law in the bird king-
dom to check these feathered Brigham
Youngs, the ladies themselves will stand for
none of it. Any breach of “love, honor and
obey” on the part of Mr. Bird, and his wife
promptly shakes her wings and literally
“gives him the air.”

Cases such as these may sound far-
fetched to the man on the street, but Prof.
Merriman assured his audience that close
study of bird life had revealed such inci-
dents to be true. On one bird sanctuary,
said Prof. Merriman, a male house wren
had mated with a female of that species,
and together they had built a comfortable
nest. Eggs were hatched by the female
and things went along splendidly, until one
day the male bird met another lady who
quickly captured his heart. He installed her
in a suitable home and convinced himself
that his double life would never be detected.
The original wife, however, was wise to
his pranks. Without warning she flew off
and left him with half a dozen infant birds
to tend and feed. The husband, who per-
haps regretted his unfaithfulness, rose gal-
lantly to the occasion and brought up those
six infant-s almost as well as any female
could have done.

The study of bird life, said Prof. Merri-
man, is one of the most fascinating hobbies
known to man. For centuries the daily life
of birds has been watched and studied, but
only since the inauguration of the present
system of bird-banding have there been any
concrete facts gathered about the habits of
individual feathered folk.

Many facts concerning bird life are dis-
covered through banding. Information on
breeding, migration, nests, migration routes
and numerous other interesting habits have
been gathered by this present system. The
total number of banded birds registered at
the department of agriculture, Washington,
since 1920 is approximately 1,123,000, and
the number of return reports on these birds
ﬁgures at some 63,000.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

May, 1933

lleaven
MABEL A. PAINE

How would Heaven seem to you,

If in all that region blue,

No bird should ﬂit on feathered wing,
No cock should crow, nor cricket sing?

How would Heaven seem to you,
If horse or dog you never knew?
If no herd grazed on distant hill,
If no cat purred on window-sill?

How would Heaven seem to you,

Where dwell in joy, the good and true,
Without the little, shy wild life

With which our ﬁelds and woods are rife?

“How would Heaven seem to me”?
You ask me this, I’ll answer free.
If there,—is none but human race,
Heaven would be a lonesome place.

Stray Animals in Summer
LESTER BANKS

HAT dogs and cats wander around

homeless, hungry and thirsty, is regret-
table—but true. In spite of laws, and all
sorts of provisions for them, these strays
are always with us.

Humane people generally appreciate that
the homeless or lost animal is exposed to
keen suffering in winter; but I fear that
many of us overlook a particular danger of
the summer months.

I refer to thirst, the most fearful torture,
next to want of oxygen, that any living
creature can experience. At no time can an
animal endure thirst very long, but hot
weather, as we all know, greatly shortens
that period. In summer there is not much
danger from exposure, and hunger may be
tolerated for several days; but the demand
for drink may become imperative in a few
hours.

The wandering animal is exercising, too;
and of course such activity increases the
frequency of thirst. A lost puppy rushing
around in a panic of nervousness, on a hot
day, will perhaps require water three times
as often as he would if lying contentedly in
his shady kennel at home.

It is not much trouble to keep a pan of
fresh water on your lawn, or near your
door if you have no yard; and nothing is
more helpful to our dumb friends in sum-
mer. Only once will it be necessary to see
a hot, panting dog’s appreciation; then you
will know that water in summer means as
much to him as to you and me.

Last summer we found that the dogs and
cats kept the birds away from the pan of
water, originally put out for our feathered
visitors. But we did not want to drive the
thirsty animals away; so we established a
second “fountain” exclusively for the birds,
placing a pan of water on the roof of our
coal house. My wife threw bread crumbs
near the pan, and within three days the
birds had given up the water in the front
yard to the cats and dogs and were attend-
ing the other place regularly.

And I believe that it gave us as much
happiness as it did the helpless creatures.
That is the beauty of kindness; the more
happiness we give the more we have for
ourselves.

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Page (39"

The Squirrel Tribe

3. The Brisk and Frisky Chipmunk
WALTER A. DYER

3%

In the thimbleberry, raspberry, huckleberry trail,
0n the way to Indian Pass,

HE burrowing squirrels, though close-

ly related to the tree squirrels, are

classed as a different group—the Tam-
ias family. They are small and striped,
their tails are furred rather than bushy,
and they have capacious cheek pouches.
The commonest one in the East is the chip-
munk (T. striatus). Its natural habitat ex-
tends from Maine to Georgia and it is a
near relative of the Western marmots and
gophers. The chipmunk is also called
ground squirrel, striped squirrel, chipping
squirrel, and hackee. Chipmunk and hackee,
like chickaree, are Indian names.

Perhaps the most interesting thing about
the chipmunk is his cleverly constructed
burrow. This consists of an entrance tun-
nel that goes straight down to a point be-
low frost line, a horizontal tunnel perhaps
twenty feet long, and a sloping tunnel that
leads up to a back door. The main tunnel
is enlarged at intervals. One of these en—
largements is warmly lined with leaves and
grasses and is used as the bedroom and nur-
sery. The others are store-rooms. Food
may also be stored in short side galleries.
The chipmunk does not leave a telltale pile
of dirt at the mouth of his burrow as the
woodchuck does but carries it off to some
distance in his pouches and often scatters
it about in the grass. The opening, which
is smooth and round, is just big enough for
the chipmunk to dive through. Below this
the tunnel is large enough for two to pass
each other and the walls are packed hard
to prevent caving in. The back door is us-
ually located under a building or stump or
stone wall or in some other hidden place
and is used chieﬂy as a means of escape
from enemies, the front door being used
for bringing in food and for the ordinary
purposes of ingress and egress. The weasel
is the chipmunk’s worst enemy, being the
only one that can follow him into his den,

 

We heard the cheery, pert and leery, swift and eerie
Chipmunk’s hail. VACHEL LINDSAY

and the back door, therefore, becomes often
very important.

The chipmunk sleeps through the cold
weather, and as he seldom comes out of
his burrow after frost he needs a goodly
supply of food. There under the snow he
fattens himself on nuts and grains until it
is time for him to fall sound asleep. In the
summer he lives on oats and other grains
and seeds. He also likes berries and apples.
Sometimes he is accused of digging up new-
ly planted corn. When October comes he
begins laying in a store of corn, small nuts,
and acorns, and beech mast when he can
get it. His children—four to six of them——
are born in May or June and spend their
infancy in the dark. When they ﬁrst
emerge they are weak and defenseless and
half blinded by the light, and where there
are cats about the mortality among them
must be great.

Though naturally shy and timid, chip-
munks soon become accustomed to the pres-
ence of man. They seem to like the prox-
imity of the house and barn and I have of-
ten found their neat, round holes in the
lawn. For several seasons now a family of
them has built its home close to my house
and they have become almost tame enough
to touch. Their front entrance is within
ten feet of our kitchen door and their rear
exit is, I think, under my study, which is a
small building without a cellar connected
with the house by the woodshed. Often
when I pass between house and study they
scamper along ahead of me, to dive under
my doorstone or to disappear down their
hole. .

One day last summer, as I opened my
study door to come out, I nearly stepped
on three helpless little chipmunk babies.
They were quite bewildered and seemed not
to know what to do or where to run. One
of them scrambled over my foot and started

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 160

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Oct. 1933

 

 

 

T he latert and most complete film of its class——

ON BEHALF OF ANIMALS

Has just been made for the Massachusetts S. P. C. A. by the ﬁlm Foundation

of Harvard University

Nothing ﬁner in ﬁlm photography, nothing superior in visual-
izing practical Humane Work has ever been accomplished than in
this production which shows the activities of the Angell Animal
Hospital of the Massachusetts S. P. C. A., Boston, scenes at the
Society’s Rest Farm for Horses, Methuen, and glimpses of the
Society’s various Animal Shelters.

Two reels, 30 minutes. State whether regular, safety 35 mm., or 16 mm. is required

TELL THE HUMANE STORY IN PICTURES WHICH FASCINATE YOUNG AND OLD

Terms on application to Secretary

Massachusetts S. P. C. A., 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston

 

 

 

 

 

Pacific Fisher on Way to
Extinction

A. H. GOODWIN

HE Paciﬁc ﬁsher, also known as the
pennant marten, or pekan, is one of
the handsomest Wild mammals of the Paciﬁc
Northwest. It is much larger than the mar-
ten, but resembles it in general appearance.
A good specimen weighs from eight to
thirteen pounds, with a grayish-brown body
about twenty-three inches long, and a tail
about fourteen inches in length. The legs
are quite short.
When seen in the trees it looks much like
a big black cat with a bushy tail. On the
ground it resembles a black fox. The name
ﬁsher is a misnomer, for it is not known to
catch ﬁsh, although it will eat them when
available. Its diet consists largely of mice,

squirrels, and other rodents, although other
items on the diet are varied and interesting.
One of the most surprising of these is the
porcupine, which is equipped with large,
sharp needles, some being nearly three
inches long—sharp needles that are de-
signed to penetrate to the remotest part of
its enemy’s body. It is remarkable that the
ﬁsher should enjoy feeding upon a beast in
whose capture he must be pierced With a
number of these sharp needles.

This beautiful mammal has never been
abundant anywhere, and there is no doubt
about its scarcity at present. Its beautiful
grayish-brown, or brownish-black, pelt has
stirred trappers to unremitting pursuit.
The market price ranges from $20 to $125.
With these unusual rewards in sight, the
ﬁsher, like the marten and other fur bear-
ers, is due for extinction outside of pre-
serves unless vigorous steps are taken to
protect it.

 

 

 

TO OUR FRIENDS I

In making your will, kindly bear in mind that the corporate title of our Society is “The l
Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals”: 5
incorporated (March, 1868) Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals in the country,
and that it has no connection with any other similar Society.

Any bequest especially intended for the beneﬁt of the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital
should, nevertheless, be made to The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals “for the use of the Hospital,” as the Hospital is not incorporated but is the
property of that Society and is conducted by it.

that it is the second

FORM OF BEQUEST z

I give to The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (or
to The American Humane Education Society), the sum of ..........................
dollars (or, If other property, describe the property).

 

 

The Oneness of all Creation

St. Francis considered all created beings
as coming from the paternal heart of God.
This community of origin made him feel
a real fraternity with them all. He said:
“They have the same source as we had.
Like us, they derive the life of thought,
will, and love from the Creator. . . Not to
hurt our humble brethren was our ﬁrst
duty to them; but to stop there, a complete
misapprehension of the intentions of Pro-
vidence. We have a higher mission. God
Wishes that we should succor them when-
ever they require it.” ST. BONAVENTURA

Our Dumb Animals

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston ofﬁce; 180 Longwood Av-
enue.

Address all communications to Boston.

TERMS
Postage free to any part of

 

One dollar per year.
the world.

Humane Societies and Agents are invited to cor-
respond with us for terms on large orders.

All dollar subscriptions sent direct to the ofﬁce en-
title the sender to membership in either of our two
Societies.

RATES OF MEMBERSHIP IN
THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
OR THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.

Active Life $100 00 Active Annual $10 00

Associate Life 50 00 Associate Annual 5 00

Sustaining 20 00 Annual 1 00
Children’s $0.75

Checks and other payments may be sent to ALBERT
A. POLLARD, Treasurer, 180 Longwood Avenue,
Boston.

Manuscripts should be addressed to the
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston.

Editor,

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 8.4

Why Animals Go Crazy

JOHN H. JOLLIEF

NE of the unexplained things to me

when reﬂecting upon the white man’s
relationship to the lower animals is how he
can so readily deprive them of their liberty,
force them against their will into strong
iron cages, and then show off his superb
mastery and domination by parading them
before the public view, particularly in cir-
cuses. Of all mankind our own race with
its boasted freedom of thought and liberty
of action apparently thrives on denying the
same privileges to God’s wild creatures.

Those in charge of menageries tell us
that they must be constantly renewed for
the death rate is relatively high. No doubt
the best explanation for this loss lies in the
fact that wild animals when caged do not
receive proper attention so their minds con-
sequently fall victims to mental diseases,
which means they must soon be extermin-
ated ere they do harm. Though plenty of
food be given them, yet they fail to re—
ceive their due mentally, consequently lose
their minds just as humans do under similar
circumstances.

Camels, foxes, elephants, and other ani-
mals usually found on exhibition often go
crazy. Keepers tell us the higher apes and
baboons rarely do well when caged. Bears
kept in cages often become sullen and des-
pondent just as men do in penitentiaries.
We know that dogs kept constantly chained
commonly become savage and vicious.

When man is caged he often whiles away
the time by inventing some triﬂing form of
amusement. What he does is of minor im-
portance—that his mind be kept occupied
and away from his unfortunate situation
is all important. Man knows that the mind
must be kept occupied or it withers away
from disuse.

How often we have stood at a respectable
distance and observed the action of wild
animals kept in captivity. The elephant
swings to and fro from his iron picket, or
breaks the monotony of his existence by
picking up straw, throwing it over his back,
only to pick it up and repeat the process.
The lion and the fox trot back and forth
pacing out miles every day but making no
headway. The poor beasts are only at-
tempting to do what man also does—keep
their minds busy with something, obtain
needed exercise, and relieve as best they
can their humdrum lives. Kindness of keep-
ers and constant change of scene are no
doubt of considerable value in alleviating
sufferings of wild animals in the circus.
They at least have something more to think
about, which surely helps to get their minds
off their wretched condition.

No Use for Zoos

On his recent visit to New York, when
one of the reporters suggested to George
Bernard Shaw that he visit a zoo, he ex-
claimed: “I have a horror of zoos. If I

had my way I should lock all the animals
out.”

 

 

 

 

 

Join the Jack London Club

The VlClOUS and cruel exploitation of animals
can be boycotted from the public stage.

Send your name for enrolment to Our Dumb
Animals, 180 Longwood Ave., Boston.

 

 

 

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

June, 1933

The Rare American Antelope

EARLE W. GAGE

(See frontispiece)

NE of the rarest of North American

animals, the antelope, or pronghorn,

distantly related to the blackbuck, or
Indian antelope, is being saved from ex-
tinction by the Canadian Government. The
history of this interesting animal, which
inhabits only this continent, constitutes
one of the tragedies of human progress.
For the antelope was threatened with a
fate like its companion of the plains, the
bison. Upon the arrival of the ﬁrst white
explorers the antelope ranged in countless
numbers on the wild pastures. Today only
a few thousands exist. It is the same story
of extermination following the advent of
the white man armed with riﬂes.

In captivity the antelope is delicate and
short lived, and as an exhibition animal in
parks and zoos it has been a complete fail-
ure, since it appears jaded and spiritless.
Conservation is possible only in vast pre-
serves, so that the sensitive little creatures
do. not suspect that they are being conﬁned
and cared for.

Many attempts, have been made in the
past ﬁfty years to transplant and acclima-
tize the antelope, yet more than forty per
cent of the animals have died. The onward
march of civilization and settlement in the
Canadian West made such disastrous in-
roads on the numbers of antelope, that the
Department of the Interior established re-
serves for their protection. The ﬁrst sanc-
tuary was located on the rolling plains of
southern Alberta, an area of 54 square
miles, some 75 miles east of Lethbridge,
known as Wawaskesy Park. Today the
main work of conservation is being carried
on at the Nemiskam Park, an area of eight
and a half square miles of fenced-in lands,
about 25 miles north of Medicine Hat, Al—
berta, where success has crowned the
efforts of the friends ‘ of these timid
animals.

Today the herd numbers nearly 500 an-
telope, representing the results of as inter-
esting an experiment in wild life conserva—
tion as has occurred anywhere. Until a
few years ago efforts at raising these ani-
mals in captivity had been unsuccessful,
owing to the effects of the shock of cap-
ture. Therefore, ofﬁcers of the National
Parks Branch, in charge of the work, hit
upon the idea of corralling a herd of ante-
lope on a suitable grazing area. A herd of
42 animals were observed feeding to the
north of Medicine Hat, and the work of
fencing them in without disturbing them
was successfully carried out. Since then
the animals have thriven evidently uncon-
scious of their captivity and these graceful
native animals are rapidly being restored
in numbers, to assure future generations
of their preservation.

The antelope’s chief title to scientiﬁc
distinction consists in the fact that like the
cattle tribe, it has hollow horns, but, unlike
them, it sheds the outside sheath each
year, just as the deer shed their antlers.
With the deer it is the whole horn or antler
that is shed, but in the case of the ante-
lope, only the outer sheath of the horn is
shed.

There is an interesting story back of the

white patch of hair on the rump of the ani-
mal. This is made to stand erect at will,
serving as an excellent signaling device to
other members of the herd. Under the
skin of the parts is a circular muscle by
means of which the hair can, in a moment,
be raised and spread radially into two
great blooming Chrysanthemums. When
this is done, in the bright sunshine, the
hair shines like sheets of bright tin, giving
ﬂashes of light that may be seen a long
way.

Just as soon as the antelope senses the
presence of a strange person or animal,
the muscles act, and the rump patch is at
once changed into a double disk of white
that shines like pure snow. In the center
of the disk is a brown spot, the musk gland,
from which a quantity of musk odor is set
free, and its message is read or understood,
by those who have noses to smell. Several
animals have the ability to quickly produce
a strong smelling odor that serves as a
defense, but mostly as a method of com-
munication. A peccary has a scent gland
on its back. A deer has one on each foot
and on the back. A goat has several about
the head. The antelope has every one of
these smellers, each tainting the air in a
way of its own, serving a purpose which
no other signaling device could serve.

The eye of the antelope is of marvelous
beauty and magnitude, as keen as it is
beautiful. The animal has the faculty
of weeping when in distress and more
than any other remnant of the pioneer
days of the continent, it is credited
with uncontrollable curiosity. It is a crea-
ture of the dry plains, the vast areas of
grass, cactus, and sage, and its food by
long habit is conﬁned to these species of
plants. When they are not available, it is
not too fastidious, and eats everything eat-
able. It is very fond of salt, and drinks
copiously.

In September the antelope bucks drift
in from the range and the animals of all
ages congregate, a large, happy family.
Although they have separated for months,
yet they never wander far from the local-
ity of their birth. They never range more
than a few miles in different directions,
and, when hunted, run in circles around
this region. Today there are about 3,000
antelope in. Western Canada.

Prayer for the Little Beasts

Oh, guard, dear Pan, so great and wise,
All little beasts with frightened eyes,
That sniﬂ and scrabble in the night,
Then scurry oﬂ alive with fright.

Hide them in burrow, nest or den,

Far from the gins and traps of men.

They ask so little, only these:

Grains from the farmer, moldy cheese,
A wormy apple in the grass

And nuts for winter store. Alas,

How they are hunted out of hand

All up and down their noisy land.

Oh, guard, dear Pan, so great and wise
All little beasts with frightened eyes.

BEULAH MAY in Dallas Kaleidograph

,

 

 

 




 

 

June, 1933

 

HE nineteenth annual Be Kind to

Animals Week and Humane Sunday

were generally celebrated throughout
the country on April 17 to 23 along the
lines indicated in the Proclamation of Gov—
ernor Ely of Massachusetts, which is
printed on another page.

The outstanding feature in Massachu-
setts was the annual prize poster contest,
in which, it is estimated, more than 60,000
pupils participated. Similar contests were
held by other Societies in various sections
of the land. The Massachusetts S. P. C. A.
received 6,071 posters from 458 schools in
152 cities and towns. First prizes, bronze
medals, were awarded to 725; second
prizes, imitation silver medals, were award-
ed to 826; honorable mentions, including a
year’s subscription to Our Dumb Animals,
went to 1,172 of the contestants. For two
weeks, from April 17 to April 30, inclusive,
as many of the best posters as could be
displayed in the space, were on exhibition
in the Fine Arts department of the Boston
Public Library, Copley Square. It was the
most successful competition of the kind yet
held by the Society.

We distributed, through Massachusetts
and elsewhere, 1,250 of the new Morgan
Dennis “Be Kind to Animals” posters. A
special edition of 10,000 copies of “Exer-
cises for Schools,” an eight-page pamphlet,

OUR DU.MB ANIMALS

Nnietenth Annual Be Kind to Animals Week

A FEW OF THE HUNDREDS OF PRIZE-WINNING POSTERS MADE IN

was carefully prepared by the Massachu-
setts S. P. C. A. for use of schools on
Humane Day, and teachers above the sec-
ond grade throughout the state were sup—
plied gratuitously. In many schools the
Society’s ﬁlm, “The Bell of Atri,” was
shown, as it was also in several churches.

Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke of the
American Humane Education Society deliv-
ered appropriate addresses before several of
the leading Women’s Clubs in Massachu-
setts. Miss Ella A. Maryott gave special il-
lustrated talks to pupils in Emerson School,
Newton Upper Falls; Normandin Junior
High school, New Bedford; and Pope School,
Somerville.

Two Big Meetings in Fitchburg

In Fitchburg, on April 18, through the
ardent interest of Mrs. Grace D. Proctor,
one of the teachers, two enthusiastic mass
meetings in B. F. Brown Hall were ad-
dressed by Secretary Guy Richardson of
the Society. In the afternoon, before 800
pupils from elementary schools, he spoke
on “Two Boys Who Were Kind to Ani-
mals.” In the evening, before an audience
ﬁlling the large auditorium, including 175
Girl Scouts in uniform, 300 Boy Scouts,
High School pupils and adults, his subject
was, “The Value of Humane Education.”

Page 85

 
      

MASSACHUSETTS SCHOOLS

The High School Band played at both meet-
ings. Principal John P. Kilmartin presided
in the afternoon and Superintendent James
M.. McNamara in the evening. At both
gatherings the ﬁlm, “The Bell of Atri,”
was projected by Mr. Lyman Sleeper of
the B. F. Brown School. Mr. John L.

McManus, president of the Fitchburg
Teachers’ Association, read Gov. Ely’s
Proclamation.

In Hyannis Humane Sunday was ob-
served on April 30 when Ofﬁcer Harold G.
Andrews of the S. P. C. A. presented the
Society’s ﬁlm at the Church school. In Bos-
ton the ﬁlm was presented at the Bulﬁnch
Place Unitarian church, where a special
afternoon program featured kindness to
animals; and it was also shown that after-
noon at the assembly at the Boston Y. M.
C. A. where Secretary Richardson gave a
talk on the work of the Society. The fol-
lowing Sunday the ﬁlm was shown, with
slides, at the Hyde Park Congregational
church, where Rev. George W. Owen, the
pastor, presented a humane program.

Many features, including editorials,
liberal news write-ups, illustrations, car-
toons, etc., appeared in the press of Massa-
chusetts, and of the country generally, in
connection with kindness week. Reports re-
ceived from other states are necessarily
held over until our July issue.

 

 




 

 

 

(lllll

l)llﬂ113

 

TYPICAL BE KIND TO ANIMALS WEEK EXHIBIT IN THE SOUTH

Miss Finley, our representative in Vir-
ginia, covers much sparsely populated ter—
ritory in addition to cities like Richmond.
She has been active in Parent-Teacher
work, giving addresses and holding exhibits
at conventions of this and other organiza-
tions. She organized more than 400 Bands
of Mercy, with memberships totaling nearly
19,000.

Miss Finley’s work in Virginia is supple-
mented, in the colored schools, by that of
Mr. Lemon. He spoke at a great variety
of gatherings, including a conference at
Hampton Institute, and reached about
15,000 children in visits to 200 schools
throughout the state. These were so widely
separated that it required more than 10,000
miles of travel to reach them.

Mr. Carroll, with headquarters in South
Carolina, addressed a large number of
Teachers’ Association meetings, conven-
tions, colleges, lodges, religious gatherings,
and schools, including summer training in-
stitutes for teachers, in this and neighbor-
ing states. Though his work is especially
with the colored population, he arranged
for the Governor of South Carolina to
broadcast a special humane message, and
for a large sign, “This is National Be Kind
to Animals Week,” to be erected on the
State House grounds at Columbia.

Mrs. Weathersbee’s activities in Geor-
gia, where she has the hearty co-operation
of the state superintendent of schools, are
told in part by these ﬁgures: 293 talks
given in 169 schools; 468 Bands of Mercy
organized with 71,000 members; 82 other
addresses given, reaching 30,000 persons.
To reach the nearly 100 towns represented,
she traveled about 8,000 miles. She also
spoke and held humane exhibitions at many
Parent-Teacher, and other educational
meetings.

Mr. Burton reports substantial progress
in humane education in Tennessee, and
that many agencies have broadened their
programs to include it. He traveled more

than 25,000 miles in order to visit 187
schools, where 38,000 children were
reached. He also addressed adult audiences
aggregating 22,300. He received excellent
co-operation from the press as well as from
churches, Sunday—schools, summer confer—
ences and public school ofﬁcials.

Mr. Barnwell was engaged principally in
reorganization work in Texas, where he re-
ported 408 Bands of Mercy with 40,842
members. His adult addresses and sermons
numbered 217, with a total attendance of
33,582. In addition to stressing the rights
of animals, he dealt with citizenship and
world peace. He introduced plans for hu-
mane education in local, county and state
Colored Teachers’ Associations.

Mrs. Nichols, national chairman of hu-
mane education for the Parent-Teacher
Association, devotes much of her time to
this important organization. She attends
and speaks before national and state con-
ventions, and is constantly directing the
various state chairmen and other ofﬁcials
as to the best methods of carrying on the
work. She has prepared a very effective
leaﬂet on humane education which is widely
used in her special work.

Economies in Publishing

Not so many of our regular pamphlets
were reprinted this year, as we have tried
to economize in this as in every other di-
rection. Several titles of leaﬂets that
seemed to have served their day, or for
which the call is falling off, have been
dropped entirely, while a, few new ones
have been added. Among the latter were
the “Humane Exercises” (for 1932) , a trap-
ping leaﬂet and one on the care of caged
canaries, both revised and shortened, and
“The Shame of It,” dealing with the cruel
practice of “setting up” horses’ tails. Our
humane calendar was published, in a
somewhat smaller edition than usual, with
a choice of three colored pictures or one in
black and white.

11PV1rﬂlzﬂllS

Alan 1933

Free Supplies

No accurate account of the amount, in
dollars and cents, of free literature and,
other supplies sent out from headquarters
each year, can be given, but it must reach
a substantial sum. Literally every mail
brings requests for something, often it is
for aids to school teachers. To all such we
respond generously, as may be seen by the
following summary of free literature, etc.,
dispatched during the year: 66,164 leaﬂets,
5,512 pamphlets, 3,406 copies of Our Dumb
Animals, 2,169 cards and blotters, 84 sets
of lesson cards, 148 books, 43 calendars,
and 956 regular posters. There were also
given 159 lots of children’s posters, 27
pennants, and 7,878 buttons and badges.

To Many Foreign Lands

Free literature, buttons, badges and
other supplies have been sent, in response
to urgent calls, to Albania, Argentina,
China, England, France, India, Ireland,
Japan, Morocco, Peru, Philippine Islands,
Porto Rico, South Africa, Turkey and
Syria. Our work in connection with the
American Fondouk at Fez, Morocco, is so
fully reported each month in Our Dumb
Animals that it seems unnecessary to re-
capitulate it here. Those specially inter-
ested may send for a copy of the annual
report.

Finances

The treasurer reports receipts for current
expenses, $25,085.80; expenditures, $27,-
244.82. Contributions for this most impor-
tant work of humane education are always
an increasing need if we are to reach each
year into new ﬁelds.

FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

Funds for Humane Workers

HE American Humane Education So-

ciety is collecting a trust fund for the
beneﬁt of ﬁeld missionaries and others who
have spent their lives in the service of
promoting humane education.

So far gifts to the amount of $6,026 have
been received.

If you desire to contribute to this fund,
please make checks payable to Treasurer,
American Humane Education Society, 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston, and specify that
the amount contributed is for the Humane
Education Trust Fund.

The Massachusetts S. P. C. A. also is
raising a special fund to provide, when ne-
cessary, for employees who have been re-
tired or for any reason are incapacitated
for work. Contributions to this fund should
be sent to the Treasurer and marked plainly
for Massachusetts S. P. C. A. Retirement
Fund.

0 O
Q

We are glad to send Our Dumb Animals
gratuitously to any publication that cares
to receive it. Among those on our list is
The Leader, of Chamberlain, S. D., pub-
lished by F. J. Croft. This is what Mr.
Croft writes us:

“We want to thank you for the copy of
Our Dumb Animals sent to us regularly.
We get lots of enjoyment out of it and then
carry it to the city library where it is the
most sought after of all magazines by the
boys and girls, so the librarian informs me.”

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 140
Labrador Dogs

EWART YOUNG

N the whole coast of rugged Labrador,

the one and only source of motive
power lies in the strong and savage dogs,
called “huskies,” that are at large for seven
months of the year.

The Labrador dogs are slightly-tamed
wolves, and the proof of this can be evi-
denced in the howling that comes from the
animals, especially at night. Sitting on their
haunches, with heads upturned, they howl
and moan and screech by turns, making
such a weird, uncanny noise-jumble that
those who hear it for the ﬁrst time often
feel a cold shiver go down the spine, partic-
ularly if the cause of the din is unknown.

When ﬁrst I went to the coast and lis-
tened in the dead of night to the combined
howling of a dozen huskies just beneath
my window, I certainly felt uneasy, but
now I don’t mind it any more than I did
the roar and bustle of congested trafﬁc
when I lived in a city.

Labrador dogs grow very fast. June
pups are broken in as soon as the snow
comes, which is generally in November.

The “komatik and dog-team” can truly
be termed the “Overland Limited” of Lab-
rador. For no automobiles or trains are in
use along the coastline, and no steamer or
water-transportation in winter.

Each man has his own team of dogs. A
good team consists of from six to ten ani-
mals, but a lot of the men have only three
to ﬁve. They ﬁnd this satisfactory for the
wood-hauling and komatik driving they
have to do. Mail carriers and drivers of
teams “for hire,” generally have ten husk-
ies to make up their teams.

The team is harnessed to the komatik
with long seal-skin traces. There is a dis—
tance of two yards between each dog, and
in a team of six dogs the head one, or
“leader” as he is called, is some twenty-
ﬁve yards from the komatik. It is upon
this leader that the responsibility of the
team depends, in a measure. The driver
has his leader trained to follow directions.
When he calls out, “Rudder! Rudder!” the
leader turns to the left, and the team fol-

lows. “Uck! Uck!” turns the dogs to the
right, and “Haw! Haw!” brings the team
to a halt.

Going down grade, the speed of the ko-
matik is arrested by a piece of steel chain
called a “drag,” which is placed over the
runner of the sled, and drags in the snow.
. Labrador dogs make good speed for their
8128. They usually average from six to eight
miles an hour. Their power of endurance
and enormous strength are great essentials
for the work they have to do.

One day last March I drove ﬁfty-odd
miles into the interior, in company with
two other men, on a team of eight dogs.
The dogs did not seem to be tired after the
long and hard journey and I wondered at
their ability to last out.

When one spends a winter on Labrador,
and has the opportunity to go “randying”
on “komatik and dog-team,” in my opinion,
he is having one of the most thrilling ex-
periences in this life.

Don’t believe the man who talks the most,
for mewing cats are very seldom good
mousers. SPURGEON

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

Trained by Kindness

PEGGY HARRIS

HAVE been told repeatedly that the only

way to train a dog to perform a difﬁcult
feat is through fear of the whip. I have
watched a trainer of dogs and horses put
them through their stunts and could readily
tell that all had felt the cut of the whip in
his hand. There was a tenseness, a strained
watching of him that spoke eloquently for
the crack of this whip they jumped to obey.

But at last my own opinion has been
vindicated! I have found a dog to whom a
whip has no meaning! Even scoldings are
an almost unheard of thing in “Pups’ ” seven
years. Yet she has been taught to assist
her master, who is night foreman of the
round—house in such a remarkable way that
it has drawn considerable attention to her.

The foreman’s work calls for many trips
out into the railroad yards after different
men. One day he conceived the idea of
teaching Pups to perform this duty. Pa-
tiently and with persistent kindness he be-
gan teaching her the names of all the men
connected with him and about where they
could be found in the yards. In an amaz-
ingly short time she had all this learned
and then, one night, he sent her after her
ﬁrst man.

She chose her own method of summoning
him to the boss. Trotting up to the man
she placed her forepaws as high on his chest
as she could reach. Jumping down, she then
ran a little way towards the roundhouse.
This she repeated until he followed her.
Now they know instantly what is wanted
when she leaps against them, for at no
other time does she greet them in this par—
ticular way.

N o matter where the man wanted is she
hunts until she ﬁnds him and has never
failed to bring in to her master the right
man. Besides this she has learned innu-
merable small tricks, as well as being his
alarm clock when it is time for him to
start to work.

“Keep a dog’s mind free of fear of you
and not only is he yours, body and soul, but
he will learn much quicker what you want of
him through very love of obeying you,” said
this man, who has created one dog a para—
dise and won an unerring helper and. ador-
ing worshiper.

There is a white rhinoceros, rare, but
found in Zululand and in a few other parts
of Africa. It is the large-st land mammal
except the elephant, often six feet high.

Sept. 1933
We Are All Dog Conscious

CARLETON A. SC‘HE‘INERT

7 E not only like a dog “in the ﬂesh,”
W but we like him when he is pictured.
How we are attracted to the store window
where the likeness of a wise-looking Scot-
tie or a black-eyed fox terrier is shown. Ar-
tists, photographers and etchers have all
studied to ﬁll our need. But not until re-
cently has the advertising man realized that
we are so “dog conscious.”

“Nipper,” the fox terrier who listens with
head cocked to his master’s voice, we have
known for years. Accusto-me-d to him, it is
almost startling to see he has changed his
position. But, anyhow, it is a more comfort-
able one. Nipper was a real dog who
posed for the man who pioneered in the
use of dogs in advertising. A dog lover
himself, he realized the appeal, and today
that likeness has enormous value.

Another real dog who likes to have his
picture taken is “Tommy Tucker” the wire-
hairedterrier. Recently his portrait cov-
ered a half—page in our national home jour-
nals. For the past year and more we have
been constantly meeting the two black Scot-
ties who peer at us, always listening. We
have not tired of their naturalness yet; still
smile at them.

Russian wolfhounds appear in pictures,
aristocrats of dogdom denoting the appeal
of quality. Again, a ﬁne looking police dog
catches and holds our eyes as he plays with
and guards the children. And who will for-
get the appeal of the bright-eyed and in-
telligent Boston terrier as he lies by the
ﬁre? Of course we’ll let the puppy do it!

Dogs have led the way in the enlivening
of the pages of magazines and rotogravure
sections of newspapers. Other animals are
following, calling to something deep within
us. As we turn the pages we come upon a
young fawn, startled, ready to ﬂee. Or a
colt, body perched high on stilt—like legs,
his mother grazing quietly beside him. Even
the wild birds are coming to brighten the
pages, building up our innate affection for
these admirable friends, a sympathy and a
desire to protect them.

Self-Reliance

LOIS LYNCH

It happened at a boarding house on a
downtown street of a Georgia city. The
landlady and boarders were sitting on the
front porch enjoying the cool of a late sum-
mer afternoon.

A pretty, though rather thin, black and

white cat came up on the lawn, stopped in

front of the electric sign, “Rooms and
Board,” and looked up as if he were read-
ing it. He then walked up the steps, over
to the landlady, looked up into her face and
said, “meow.”

“Yes,” said the landlady, “I take boarders.
Will you have a room and meals?”

“Meow,” answered kitty, and walked
through the door straight to the dining-
room.

There was some steak left on the table,
and you may be sure the lady gave it to
him.

He who ill-treats animals is not worthy
to be an Italian. MUSSOLINI

 




 

Apr. 1933

OUR DUMB

 

 

 

ANIMALS

 

 

\

/ II I
\\\\\\‘. ~
\\

I
14/!
\i is.“
‘3‘}
;, , a”

)7
[I

II“
“\x ‘

If»
/
”’/q'{'

 

A Change of Heart

LOIS BURR

ABITHA” had been our pet for a year. She was a big

white Leghorn, a beautiful fowl. She had the freedom
of the back yard and a snug little coop to sleep in. We had not
known a mere chicken could be so companionable and inter-
esting. Why not another pet? Why not a playmate for Ta—
bitha?

We acquired a fox terrier, young and frisky. He was
friendly, like his kind. Seeing Tabitha, he tried to begin a
romp. But his overtures were not acceptable to Tabitha. She
had no opinion of him. She made her resentment plain. She
had been the original pet in our family, and she meant to
preserve that status at all hazards.

She made the puppy’s life miserable; pursuing him with
long strides all over the yard; and pecking him persistently.
His instinct taught him to fear for his eyes. Why, one day
we found him standing on his hind feet, supporting his front
paws on the hose faucet. Thus his eyes were out of Tabitha’s
reach, but his back was being peck-ed unmercifully!

There was» a state of warfare, and we must do something
to insure peace; or, at least, to protect the'pup.

Then he fell ill. Whether slightly poisoned or not, we could
not tell. He retreated to his box in the yard, and lay there
inert, at the full mercy of his foe. But, to our intense sur-
prise, Tabitha did not attack him at all. She had a change of
heart. Instead of pecking at him savagely as we expected, she
hovered about him, clucking softly and anxiously; or she sat
in the door of his box, watching him solicitously. This showed
a degree of intelligence and sympathy we had not expected
even from a pet chicken.

The puppy slowly recovered. Then it became apparent our
difﬁculty was solved. For he and Tabitha had become the best
of friends.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

“BOBBY,” THE SEALYHAM, TRAVELED QUITE EXTEN-
SIVELY IN EUROPE. WHAT ARE SOME OF THE PLACES
HE VISITED? (Answers next month).

 

A Prayer for Prince
BETSEY MANN COLLINS

Dear God, ’way up there in the sky,
Do you exspec’ me not to cry?
Mother says to be a man.

She says if I try—I can.

“Prince,” my dog, you’ve seen him jump

An’ catch a ball? Well, here’s—a lump

As big as Grandma’s ball of yarn,

’C'ause Prince—he’s dead—down by—the barn.

Oh, God, if you’ll jus’ let him in,

An’ ’scuse his dirty paws in Heaven,
I’ll wash enough for both of us,

’Cause he’s just thr‘ee—an’ I am seven.

On the way to church Sundays, with my good moth-er on,
my arm, she would ﬁnd that I had stopped to talk to a horseib
or a dog,—and she would give my arm“ a pull and say, “What
do you suppose the people will think of you, stopping right
here On the public street on the Lord’s day, on the way to
church, to talk to a horse or dog? Why, they’ll think you’re
crazy.”

Well! the fact was, I didn’t care half so much what the
people thought, as I did what the horse or dog thought.

GEo. T. ANGELL

Rabbit and Chicks in Easter Legend

HN our celebration of Easter, rabbits and chickens always
ﬁgure prominently, yet many may not know just where we
get the connection. An explanation is found in a very pretty
Easter legend, as follows:

One day as a rabbit went for a quiet walk in the forest he
came upon a nest ﬁlled with eggs but there was no hen in
sight. After a futile search for her, he concluded a wary old
fox must have made a meal of her. He realized how the mother
hen must have worried over her eggs so he decided he would
play the part of the Good Samaritan by trying to keep the eggs
warm, and he huddled close on the hen’s nest all night.

When he woke next morning, which of course was Easter,
the nest was full of little yellow chicks. They knew no differ-
ent and supposed the rabbit was their mother so turned to
him to be sheltered and fed. The rabbit did not desert the
little fellows but went out into the woods every day and found
food for the chicks and stayed with them at night to keep
them warm.

In northern Germany the inhabitants have an Easter tree
somewhat similar to our Christmas tree except that the decora-
tions are different, the trimming being all colors of eggs. And
that is the reason that a rabbit always stands guard over a
huge nest of eggs at this Easter tree. The eggs are intended
for all the children and grown folks, and they join hands for
a frolic around the Easter tree just as in this country we join
hands and sing carols around our Christmas tree. There is
much fun and feasting all 'day long. L. R. MARSHALL

EDITOR’S N OTEz—We trust that this legend has not encouraged the
pernicious custom of selling poor little Easter chicks in stores to be
carelessly and often cruelly handled by irresponsible children. This
practice should be discouraged always and everywhere.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Charles W. Broadbent Co.
SURGICAL SUPPLIES
Six Sixty Five Huntington Avenue
BOSTON - - MASS.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

H.C. HAM
J. L. HAM
A. L. HAM

PAPER

10 High Street, Boston

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

A whole library of the best humane reading
is available in the bound volume of

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

for 1932, with 192 pages, 200 illustrations,
all for $1.00, sent to any address in the
world. Address,

Our Dumb Animals,180 Longwood Ave.,Boston

 

 

 

 

 

'I-l-l-llllllll-Ill-IIII
Cuticura Refreshing and
/ Shaving non-irritating

e en when used
K, Cream v

twme daily.
At your dealers or sent on 2receipt of 35c.
t Address: "Cuticura," Dept.2 2B, Malden, Mass. J
III-Il-IIIIIIIIIIIIIII

 

 

 

 

Established l 868

JAMES FORGIE’S SONS

l7 Merchants Row
Boston, Mass.
HARNESS.

ENGLISH SADDLERY, AND
EVERYTHING FOR THE HORSE

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

A Safe Investment

Why not invest your money where
you will receive a fair return while
you live, and after you are gone it
will be safe from contests and de-
voted to a cause near to your heart?
Write for particulars of the Annuity
plans Of either the American Humane
Education Society 01‘ Of the Massa-
chusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 180 Longwood
Avenue, Boston.

Humane literature and Baud of Mercy Supplies

For sale by the American Humane Education Society and the Massachusetts S. P. C. A.,

180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass, at these prices, postpaid.

Titles in bold-face type are of books or booklets

Be Kind to Animals Poster, 17 x 22
inches, one for 10 cts., six for 50 cts.

or 16 ............................... $1.00
Our Dumb Animals, 1932, bound volume $1.00
Our Dumb Animals, January to Decem-

ber, 1929, 1930, and 1931, bound in

cloth, special, each .................. .75

Colored Posters, 17 x 28 inches, with

attractive pictures and verses, six in

the set .............................. $1.00
Be Kind to Animals Blotters, 61/8x3%. $0.50 per 100

About the Horse

Black Beauty (English), cloth, 45 cents; paper, 20 cts.
The Shame of it—Mutila‘ting the horse

by setting up his tail. Dr. Rowley’s

protest against this cruelty for fash-

ion’s sake. Four illus., 4 pp. ........ Free
What Constitutes Cruelty, Francis H.

Rowley .............................. $0.30 per 100
Humane Horse Book, 32 pp., 5 cts.

each or ....................... . . 5.00 “ “
The Horse—Treatment of Sores, Dis-

eases, etc. ........................... .60 “ “
Humane Education Leaﬂet No.5 ...... 50 “ “
The Horse’s Prayer ................... .30 “ “
The Bell of Atri, poem by Longfellow 50 “ “
The Care of Mules .................... .50 “ “

About the Dog

Beautiful Joe, new, illus., $1.50 ..... small, 50 cts.
Distemper in Dogs, Dr. Schneider ..... Free
Rabies vs. Running Fits. Dr. Schneider Free

Eulogy on the Dog, by Vest, post- card $1.00 per 100
The Dog—~Its Care in Health and Disease .60
Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 3 and 4.50

(l ‘6

What the Chained Dog. Says ........... .50 “ “

The Story of Barry .................... .30 “ “
About the Bird

The Trial of the Birds, play ............ $2.00 per 100

Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 1 and 2.50 “
How the Birds Help the Farmer ........ .50 “ “
The Air-gun and the Birds ............. .50 “ “

About the Cat

The Cat—Its Care in Health and Disease $0.60 per 100
A Letter to Owners of Cats ........... .30
The Cat in Literature ................ .50 “ “
Do Not Leave Your Cat to Starve ...... .50 “ “
“The Beggar Cat,” post-card, 6 cts. per

do ................................. .50 “ “

About Other Animals

Prince Rudolf’s Quest, Kenniston, 150

pp., special ..................... boards, 50 cts.
The Strike at Shane’s, cloth, 30 cts. .,paper 7 cts.
Michael Brother of Jerry, Jack London, cloth, 75 cts.
Jack London Club Poster, 22 x 32 inches

one for 15 cts., two for 25 cts., ﬁve or

more ................................ each, 10 cts.
First Aid to Animals, Dr. Schneider, 8 pp $1. 00 pe1 100
What is the Jack London Club? 3.0
Foreword from “Michael Brother of '

Jerry” .............................. .30 “ “
Gripped in the Teeth of Steel, 2 pp. 1. 00 “ “
How to Kill Animals Humanely, 4 pp. 1. 00
Humane Education Leaﬂet, No. 6, Ani-

mals ................................ .50

About Other Animals—Continued
Humane Education Leaﬂet, No.7, Farm

Animals ............................ $0. 50 per 100
Ways of Kindness .....................
Why the Toad is so Useful ............. .30 “ “
“Empty Tin Cans,” card ............. Free

Humane Education

The Humane Bulletin, for use in schools,
96 pp. ................. 12 cents each; ten for $1.00
Care and Kindness for Our Animal
Friends, 29 pp. ., paper covers, many
illus. ................ 15 cents each ; seven for $1.00
Kindness Picture Book, 32 pp.
15 cents each ; seven for $1.00
The Teacher’s Helper in Humane Edu-
cation, 32 pp. .................... each, 10 cts.
Humane Education—for Parents and

Teachers, 20 pp. .................. each, 10 cts.
Picture Lesson Cards, each, 10 cts., set

of eight ............................ 35 cts.
“Be Kind to Animals” Pennants ....... each, 25 cts.
“Be Kind to Animals” Placards ...... each, 3 cts.

The Humane Idea, Dr. Francis H.

Rowley ................ cloth, 35 cts. ; paper, 15 cts.
Friends and Helpers (selections for

school use), Sarah J. Eddy ........... cloth, 96 cts.

Animals as Seen by the Poets, Guy

Richardson, 32 pp ....... cloth, 35 cts. ; paper, 10 cts.
Address to Boston Public Schools ...... $2.00 per 100
Lessons on Kindness to Animals ........ 00

The B—K—T—A Club, play .3 cts. each; ten for 25c.
Fred Changes His Mind, play 5 cts. each; six for 25 cts.
“And a Little Child Shall Lead Them,’

play ..................... 3 cts. each; six for 15 cts.
Friends of Fur and Feather, play,

3 cts. each ; ten for 25 cts.

Humane Day in Schools, with class- -room

project, 8 pp. ....................... $2.00 per 100
Exercises for Humane Day, 1933 ...... 00
Humane Education the Vital Need, Dr.

Rowley, short radio address, 3 cts. each; 1.50
Our Little Brothers and Sisters. sermon

for boys and girls, by Dr. Jefferson,

4 pp. ............................... .50 “ "
Humane Education, What to Teach and

How to Teach It .
Early Lessons in Kindness or Cruelty .. .50 “
Outlines of Study in Humane Education,

8 ............................... .50 “ ‘
A Talk with the Teacher .............. .50 “
The Coming Education ................. .30 “ ‘
Our Love for Animals, a short radio

address ................. 5 cts. each; 2. 50 “ ‘
A Festival of Tender Mercies ......... .50 “ “
A Great Prophecy, Dr. Rowley ........ Free

Band of Mercy

“Be Kind to Animals” Buttons, three
styles—~Band of Mercy, Humane So-
ciety, or S. P. ................ $1.00 per 100
Buttons—white star on blue ground with
gilt letters and border, one cent each . 1.00
Badges, gold ﬁnish, large, 10 cts. ...... small, 5 cts.
“Band of Mercy” Pennant ............ 35 cts.
Songs of Happy Life, with Music, S.
J. Eddy 50 cts.

(I (5

Songs of Happy Life (56 pages, words

only . . .............. $3. 00 per 100
Band of Mercy Membership Card .....
How to Form Bands of Mercy ......... .50 “ “

(S 6‘

Does it Pay, story of one Band of Mercy .30

Please enclose remittance with orders for less than $1

AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY, 180 Longwood Ave., Boston, Mass.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Since 1832

J. s. WATERMAN & SONS, INC.
3:} nhertakzrs

BOSTON—BROOKLINE—CAMBRIDGE
City and Out- of- Town Service

 

to Georgia.

180 Longwood Avenue

 

 

 

 

 

Still the World’s Best Film to Illustrate Kindness to Animals

THE BEI L OF ATRI

Nobody could be more surprised than the Producers that this ﬁlm,
after years of exhibition on ﬁve Continents, continues to be in demand
throughout the country. Sixteen different exhibitions weie arranged
for during the recent BE KIND TO ANIMALS WEEK——from Maine

Reduced rates for rentals until October 1,1933. Films for sale at
practically cost price—all styles. Please state whether safety, 35 mm.,
or the small, 16 mm. size, is required.

AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION. SOCIETY

Boston, Mass.

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

Page 22

prey. This secretion is harmless to the
skin, but is apparently extremely disagree-
able to the taste; at least a dog will seldom
pick up a second toad, his ﬁrst experience,
probably when he was a puppy, leaving a
lasting impression upon him.

The toad has several enemies, among
them owls, hawks, and crows, as well as
domestic fowls. Skunks are said to feed
upon them, being one of the few mammals
they have to fear. By far their worst en—
emy, however, is the snake. Some snakes,
such as the ﬂat-headed adder (hog-nosed
snake) feed almost exclusively upon toads.

Needless to say, you may handle toads
Without any fear of contracting warts. The
“warts” of the toad’s back bear no rela—
tion to the warts to which the human skin
is subject.

The “myth of the warts” belongs in the
same category as the tale of the hoop
snake.

The alert nighthawk who feeds on small
moths caught while on the wing has the
best-hidden nest of all ground birds, yet
this nest is betrayed by the mother bird,
who rises directly from the nest into the
air when disturbed.

The “ Silkie” Bantam

ROY VAN HOESEN

The “silkie” bantam is the most unique
specimen of all poultrydom, and is one of
the oldest of the over one hundred varieties
of bantams. The silkie does not have
feathers like other fowls, but is covered
with a silky down, from whence it derives
its name.

Silkie bantams are bred in white, black,
golden and partridge, but the most perfect
are the white, as they are the original, and
the variations of color are yet in the mak-
ing. Aside from their plumage they are
unique in that their skin, ﬂesh, and bones
are a dark mulberry color. They are good
layers of medium—sized eggs. Their most

 

valuable characteristic is their propensity
to be broody, and they are prized by game
and rare bird breeders for hatching and
rearing valuable and tender birds. Silkie

bantams cannot ﬂy. They are great pets
for children.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Feb. 1933

 

CIGAR-BOX CAFETERIA FOR BIRDS IN WINTER

 

The Junco

CLARENCE MANSFIELD LINDSAY

The junco is a funny bird;
He spends his winters here!

Then, when the robins note is heard,
He flies up north! How queer!

He doesn’t mind the cold, you know.
Thick feathers keep him warm;

And he’s contented mid the snow
Whene’er the white ﬂakes swarm!

His coat is gray, just like your slate!
His bill’s a lovely pink!

Of his tail feathers, white and straight,
He’s very proud, I think.

Out by the barn he may be found,
Eating the seeds from hay;

Or to your door he will come round,
If crumbs are thrown his way!

In merry ﬂocks the juncos band—
They like to keep together!
And all ﬂy to the northern land
When comes the warm spring weather!

And very glad indeed arm I,
The junco is so queer!

When other birds will southward fly,
He spends the winter here!

O O
O

The sting of the honey-bee is barbed, but
those of the wasp, hornet, and bumblebee
are smooth like a needle, so that they can
sting and sting again.

0 Q
0

The reason our ruffed grouse survives
and prospers all year in our climate is be-
cause it eats the buds of certain trees, while
the quail, or “Bob White,” often perishes
because it is a ground feeder whose food
is often cut off by the deep snow of winter.

The honeymooners were driving through
the country when they met a farmer lead-
ing a mule. 'Just as they were about to
pass, the animal turned towards the motor
car and brayed vociferously.

The bridegroom in a teasing way turned
to his wife and remarked: “Relative of
yours?”

“Yes,” she said sweetly, “by marriage.”

—-Christian Science Monitor

Simple Bird Feeder

FRANK W. BENTLEY, JR.

ANY of us with sincere pity for the

small birds after a heavy fall of snow
make some effort to toss out crumbs and
other light table left-overs which mean
existence to' them. However, in many cases
our little feathered friends do not get the
full beneﬁt of our oﬁerings unless means
are provided to keep the crumbs from quick-
ly going down into the snow, and a great
deal of the food is covered by the birds in
their efforts to feed. Take an old empty cigar
box and quickly make a simple practical
feeder for them as shown. Take the box
apart carefully. With the sides and ends
construct a neat trough for the crumbs and
bits. Between the pieces and at the bottom
nail the cover and bottom of the box using
the same box nails. These two last addi-
tions will keep the feeder from sinking down
into the snow and provide a place for the
birds to alight around the trough. From
this little arrangement a considerable num-
ber of birds can feed with little or no loss
of the food.

Servants of Man
WILLIS MEHANNA

I have noticed chickadees and small wood-
peckers peeking at the dead, dry cornstalks
during the months of November and De-
cember as though they got nourishment from
them. They did, and this sustenance was in
the form of chinch bug eggs, grasshopper
eggs and the eggs of other plant parasites
which prey upon farm crops, lessening their
usefulness and making the raising of crops
more difﬁcult. These birds, if allowed to
multiply, will save the farmer the necessity
of buying costly plant sprays which are
only a partial success at best. The work
these birds do costs nothing and it is a
pleasure to have them around and watch
their actions. All the co-operation they need
is a grove or wood-lot with some big elms
or any sort of big trees in it with a few
dead limbs on them for the birds to bore
into for nesting-places.

“Make channels for the streams of Love,
Where they may broadly run;

And Love has overflowing streams
To ﬁll them every one.”

 




 

Sept. 1933

Equus ct Motorbus

DON C. SEITZ

The horse he is a kind beast,
And uses every care,

But the motor is a blind beast
And does not see you’re there.

The horse he is a mute beast,
Arid rarely says a ueigh,

But the motor is a brute beast
Arid roars on its way.

The horse he is a mild beast,
Arid lets you pat his head,
The motor is a wild beast
Arid butts you till you’re dead!

Disposal of Old Horses

LESTER BANKS

N Seattle recently a number of aged

horses, public servants that had outlived
their capacity for their jobs, were sold to
the highest bidders. A part of the buyers’
contract was to provide good homes, not
re-sell the animals, and not give them any
heavy work.

I wish that aged horses everywhere could
be so protected; but the fact is that cruelty
to worn-out horses, frequently on a whole-
sale basis, is very common.

Every farmer should know exactly the
what—and-how of disposal before he sells an
old horse. Some aged animals have been
simply turned out in the woods or swamps
to die, which of course brings legal action
against the owner, if the crime can be
fastened on him. But where one farmer
does that, there are dozens who think it
entirely all right to sell the animal to some
shipper who is collecting old horses for a
fox-farm, chicken-food manufacturers, or
such.

“Something’s better than nothing,” rea-
sons the farmer; “I can get two or three
dollars for him; and unless I accept it I’ll
have to put a bullet in the old fellow.”

In many cases, use of the bullet would be
by far the more humane course; because
fearful cruelties by these shippers have been
reported—trips of many days’ duration with-
out food or water, and such close loading in
railroad cars that some of the weakest
animals were crushed or trampled to death.

I decline to believe that many farmers
would for two or three dollars willingly
subject a faithful old servant to such suf-
fe-ring. They do it unknowingly; but they
are to blame for taking any chances. Al-
ways they can report to the nearest humane
society, and the aged horse will be taken
off their hands, either to be placed in a
good home or put out of his misery pain-
lessly.

It seems to me that true sentiment is in-
volved in parting with a horse after he has
grown old in the owner’s service. Regularly,
sick or well, and without complaint, he has
answered the daily call for perhaps a dec-
ade. When a man has made hundreds of
dollars from the labor of an animal, how can
he stoop to the thought of two or three dol-
lars when to accept that price exposes the
helpless animal to a risk of suffering?

Remember the Massachusetts S. P. C. A.

in your will.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Miss Springtime—Show
Marc

ELLEN H. JONES

Y beautiful mare loves so to show that

frequently out the gate we go! She’s
the handsomest, prancin’est, dancin’est thing
that ever entered a horse show ring, with
sweet, slim legs modeled straight and clean
and the trimmest ankles ever seen. You’d
never snatch her to “set” her head; that
was accomplished when she was bred, and
her tail was “set” in her breeding, too;
she’s a “lady of quality” through and
through. My glorious gray, with markings
black, is fussy about who’s on her back;
her mouth is tender as yours or mine;
she’ll guide with a bit of silken twine, and
Heaven help the yokel bold who’d mount
my mare and then “take hold!” With all
her spirit and all her life, she’s sensible,
sensitive, quick-thinking, right, as down the
bro-ad Main Street she goes, ears up, tail
out, on twinkling toes. Trafﬁc hinders her
not a whit; she minces through the mer-
est slit between a truck and a trolley car,
and if steam roller the path should bar,
suggesting a grand excuse to play, I mur-
mur, “We haven’t the time, today,” and,
bless her heart, she’s on her way. Some
folks, who think they horses know, declare
“She’s crazy,” which goes to show they’ve
a lot to learn ere themselves they set to
judge the “breediest” equines’ get. It
seems to me that this horse show game for
the av’rage ringside would be tame with
only over-trained nags about, stepping up
and down instead of out, so I show my mare
with the restless feet to insure the grand-
stand “fans” a treat. With “foolish” direc-
tions like, “Walk, if you please,” she just
can’t be bothered, preferring to “breeze.”
All the other entries resent my horse; she
cribs the spotlight on any course, and while
they gait their one, two, three, she pirou-
ettes in impish glee around the ring, sweep-
ing all before us. She’s prima donna;
they’re just the chorus. The steward yells,
“Can’t you walk that jade?” I “holler”
back, “No, sir; she’d
rather parade!”

My beautiful mare
loves so to show that
frequently out the gate
we go!

Says Lt.-Col. R. S.
Timmis, D. S. 0., in
“Modern Horse Man-
agement”: “If the horse
is a little warm when
watered, he must be
walked about for ten
minutes before being
put into the stable, to
prevent the internal or-
gans being cooled down
too suddenly. He will
then do far better than
if left to cool before be-
ing watered. The horse
must never be hurried
while watering. Some
horses drink very slow-
ly and raise their heads
several times. They
should be allowed ﬁve
minutes to drink.”

 

Page 139

Facts About Beasts
WILL HERMAN

HE kangaroo babies, when ﬁrst born,
. are only one inch in length!

The ﬂying lemur or galago, a native of
the Indian Archipelago, leaps on an inclined
plane a distance of over 300 feet!

Some other famous jumpers are the
kangaroo, who is able to jump between
ﬁfteen and twenty feet on the level—and
can easily overleap the ordinary hedges and
fences. The Springbok clears between thirty
and forty feet at a jump—and the ﬂying
squirrel travels about ﬁfty feet in the air
before landing!

The elephant’s trunk contains ﬁfty thou-
sand muscles—and is strong enough to lift
a log and delicate enough to pick a pin
from the ground. .

The Arctic fox, the stoat and the blue 0
mountain hare change their color scheme in
winter in favor of a white fur coat. This is
done to protect themselves, since they can
hardly be seen in the white background.
However, there are many other animals that
do the same.

Sheep gather together at the approach
of a storm and ﬁnd shelter under trees and
hedges, long before others are aware of an
impending rain.

The donkey was a beast of burden hun-
dreds of years before horses were tamed.

A seal, although it spends almost all of
its life in the water, is not a ﬁsh! It is an
animal!

A camel’s ability to go without food and
water for long periods can be easily under-
stood. The camel has four stomachs! It
eats and stores its food in advance!

The giraﬂe can see behind him without
turning his head. This is due to the great
distance which his eye-balls extend from
their sockets!

The beaver cuts down trees, trims trees,
cuts them into logs, ﬂoats them down the
river and, ﬁnally, builds its dams out of
them.

The hippopotamus and elephant, two of
the largest creatures, are vegetarians!

 

 

KENTUCKY BRED AND OWNED

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 161;

Hunter

EDWIN CARLILE LITSEY

Death in his heart and death in his gun,
The hunter goes where wild things run.

The image of God is out today,
His heart aflame with the lust to slay.

But only the devil will guide his aim .
And the course of the lead which will kill or

maim.

And it will be murder in ﬁeld or bush,
When the hare leaps out, or the eoveys ﬂush.

Driven by hunger a man may slay, .
But what shall we think when he kills for

play?

Turn back, 0 Hunter, and let them be;
The harmless creatures of grass and tree.

A New Deal for Animals?
DAVID LEE WHARTON

HE chief topic everywhere, at present,

appears to be codes, the NRA and the
blue eagle. But among all the babel of
tongues, political oratory, newspaper and
.radio discussion, who has heard one word
concerning a code whereby animals would
be beneﬁted? Any mention of shorter work-
ing hours, better food and more comfortable
quarters for horses and mules? If an owner
desires to work his horse twenty-two hours
per day then put him in an unclean stall too
dirty and wet to permit of hls lying down,
with insuﬂicient food and no fresh water,
where is the code to bring relief to this
defenseless laborer?

Large business ﬁrms using horses or
mules, make it a rule to buy only handsome
and well-kept animals, and see to it that
their live stock are well cared for and
kindly treated. It is generally the one horse
or one team, owned by some shiftless, negli-
gent, and often cruel “higher” animal who
lives by the toil and suffering of his lone
beast or team, that suffers from cold, hunger
and thirst, is often improperly shod, his
legs indescribably weary, his feet tired
and burning. Only their Maker knows the
suffering of the beasts of burden who are
unable to voice their woes. What a travesty
would a shining blue eagle be upon the stall
of such a creature!

Has any one seen an NRA upon a dirty
and leaky dog kennel without so much as
an old rug for warmth and comfort, or
upon the cage of a wild bird?

Will there never be a new deal for ani-
mals until the millennium has come? There
can be no true civilization until the rights
of the so-called lower animals are recognized
and protected.

Any square deal for animals would be a
New Deal!

The beast of burden who toils faithfully
in the service of man is entitled to his hours
of rest and a fair compensation equally
with man. He asks so little—food, water,
and some consideration.

NRA may easily stand for “no rights, no
rest, no relief, no regulation, no reward,
for animals.”

.It certainly does not stand for “New
nghts for Animals!”

OUR DUllIB ANIMALS

 

WE
Zak-II. “ﬁg

{Asu-

Nov. I 933

 

JOIN THE JACK LONDON CLUB—AN ORGANIZED PROTEST AGAINST
SUCH UNNATURAL PERFORMANCES AS HERE SHOWN

 

The Antiquated Zoo

JOSEPH RUSSELL SCHADEL

RECENTLY visited a large zoo in a

Paciﬁc coast city, one of the ﬁnest and
most picturesque cities in the country. To
the morbid curiosity seeker and thought-
less element of the public all zoos are in-
teresting and attractive; to the humane
minded and conscientious individual all

zoos are depressing. As I walked through

the lanes of the zoo on both sides of which
were alined the man-made prisons contain-
ing the freedom—loving creatures of the
woods and jungle, I experienced a pro-
found feeling of mingled sympathy and
compassion for the subdued inmates of the
cages. Sad—faced simians gazed curiously
at the babbling throng of visitors; majes-
tic lions paced back and forth in their much
too small quarters; tigers roared in an-
guish, for it was close to feeding time;
stealthy wolves trotted about their cages
and peered through the bars with disgust;
and other former inhabitants of the jungle
showed their disdain for man in like fash-
10n.

Involuntary conﬁnement is demoralizing.
No matter how diligent and exacting an
effort man might make in an attempt to
duplicate the natural habitat of the jungle
beasts, those artiﬁcial structures can never
appeal to the roving creatures which were
born to feel the coolness of Mother Earth
beneath their paws and were taught to seek
their food and shelter by Mother Nature
herself.

The zoo is an antiquated form of amuse-
ment, an attraction which ﬂourished in the
early days before the era of humane educa-
tion, and should be relegated now to the
past in company with sail ships, hoop skirts,
bustles, ﬂint—lock muskets and those vol-
uminous beards.

All zoos are depressing.

 

Origin of “ Chicago”

ROM an Iowa college professor, who

sent us a newspaper clipping telling of
a cat which mothered several orphaned
skunks, we received the following account
of the origin of the word, Chicago. We
trust it will not offend our readers in the
Illinois metropolis:

While we are speaking of skunks, it might
be interesting to remind your readers that
the city this year hostess to multitudes
ﬂocking to see its Century of Progress EX-
hibition takes its name from the Indian
Skicagua, which we learn on the depend-
able authority of Harvey Ingham, emeritus
editor of the Des Moines Register and an
earnest student of Indian lore, is the Indian
name for skunk. It survives in the present
name of the Skunk River, a sizable tribu-
tary of the Mississippi ﬂowing through
eastern Iowa, which on the ﬁrst surveys of
this country was called the Skicagua River.
Mr. Ingham says, “As it is, the Chicagoans
now rather dodge the Iowa interpretation of
their name, ,intimating that it was the
garlic or wild onion that gave Chicago its
name. The nearest the real Chicagoan
comes to the Iowa interpretation is to admit
that “in general the word was interpreted
as applying to a bad smell.”

 

HE Jack London Club is a hu-

mane society with no ofﬁcers and
no dues, and a membership of nearly
600,000. You can become a member
of this club by agreeing to withdraw
from any place of public amusement
when performing animals are ex-
hibited; or by refusing to patronize
the theaters that cater animal per-
formances, and by sending your name
to Our Dumb Animals, Boston, Mass.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

June,1933

Qtnmmnntnealtb of Massachusetts

By His Excellency
JOSEPH B. ELY
Governor
A Proclamation
For many years it has been the custom
for the Governor of the Commonwealth to
issue each year a proclamation to empha-
size our duty to dumb animals. To this end
I designate Sunday, April 23, 1933, as

HUMANE SUNDAY

and I urge our religious leaders to call
attention to this world-wide cause.

I also designate April 17th to 22d as

BE KIND TO ANIMALS WEEK

In this, as in other realms of progress,
Massachusetts has been a leader. In better
legislation for the protection of animals she
was a pioneer. So far back as 1641 the
“General Laws and Liberties of Massa-
chusetts Bay” (chapter XXXII) say: “It is
ordered by this Court that no man shall
exercise tyranny or cruelty toward any
brute creatures which are usually kept for
the use of man.” Today the statutes of
Massachusetts, with regard to animal pro-
tection, are considered models, often copied
by other states, and a strong public opinion
for proper enforcement is crystalized in a
state organization second 'to none in its
effectiveness. Particularly in the schools
has the better treatment of animals been
emphasized in a variety of ways. The im—
portance of humane education cannot be
overstated. I, therefore, strongly urge the
teachers in our schools and all our citizens
to continue to impress upon the minds of
our youth the necessity and worthiness of
kind and humane treatment to the dumb
animals which have been placed in our
care.

No prayer more beautiful has come to
my attention than that of the Hindus of
old which they used in closing their pub-
lic gatherings. It was “May all that have
life be delivered from suﬂering.”

GIVEN, at the Executive Chamber, in Bos-
ton, this fourth day of April, in the year
of our Lord, one thousand nine hundred
and thirty-three, and of the Independ-
ence of the United States of America the
one hundred and ﬁfty—seventh.

By His Excellency the Governor,
JOSEPH B. ELY

Secretary of the Commonwealth,
FREDERIC W. COOK

God Save The Commonwealth of Massachusetts

The Man or the Tiger

The big game hunter was telling his
stay-at-home wife all about his encounter
with the Bengal tiger and how he had
ﬁnally shot it. “Yes,” he wound up, “It
was a case of the tiger or me.”

“I’m so glad it was the tiger, dear,” she
said sweetly, “otherwise we wouldn’t have
this lovely rug.”

—The Congregationalist

“Kindness ennobles, cruelty degrades.
The greatest men and women and the best
Are such as note a little fallen bird.
And, stooping, place it back within its
nest.”

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Swallow Tales from My Diary

WALTER A. DYER

and they are many and various, I

think I feel best acquainted with the
barn swallows. There are few more neigh-
borly birds, few so candid in letting us
into the secrets of their family life. One
need not be an ornithologist to understand
them and their pretty ways. I have every
sympathy with the scientiﬁc approach, but
I cannot believe that any naturalist ever
had pleasanter times watching the barn
swallows than I have had.

I have come to love» this joyous creature.
He does not sing, and yet how obviously
happy he is. No creature, unless it be the
red squirrel, mixes work and play more
light—heartedly. He is my constant teacher
in this; he tells me that life is given us to
be enjoyed.

For several years now I have kept a sort
of spasmodic diary in which I have re-
corded little happenings in the bird and
animal world of my farm, and in looking
this over I am interested to notice how
very often the barn swallow has found his
way into the entries.

This diary tells me that the barn swal-
lows return to us about May 20th. I ob-
serve them at about that time chattering
on the telephone wires and darting in and
out of the woodshed and barn in swift,
unerring swoops. In a week or ten days
one or two pairs begin building their stucco
nests on the rafters in the barn, and before
the middle of June I see them teaching
their young to ﬂy.

I ﬁnd this entry, dated June 30: I am
wondering about the swallows that are
nesting on a rafter in my barn—the usual
place. I close the barn door at night and
in the morning the pair are waiting out-
side for me to open it. They sit on the
telephone wire and when they see me they
begin swooping about, dipping toward the
barn door as if telling me to hurry. As
soon as I am out of the way they sail in
and there is much twittering on the rafter.
I do not know whether there are eggs or
young in the nest. If the latter, do they
go unfed and unattended all night, or do
the parents get in by some other way?

But the story I started to tell is about
“Paul” and “Virginia.” Almost every year
a pair of barn swallows build a nest in
our woodshed where we have an excellent
opportunity to observe their little affairs.
We always call them Paul and Virginia,
but whether it is the same pair every year,
or children of previous inhabitants, I do
not know. They always seem much at
home from the ﬁrst and show not the
slightest fear of either us or our dog. We
watch them building their home and con-
ducting their courting.

And what pretty, absurd courting it is!
It must be an art practised for its own
sake, for I think neither party is in the
least deceived or unduly ﬂattered. It even
appears to annoy Virginia a little, after
awhile, and I can imagine her saying, “Oh,
Paul, don’t be so silly.” But Paul continues
to pursue her and pester her with his atten-
tions, and to try to make himself irresist-
ible in her sight, just as if she did not
already know all his ingratiating tricks, all

©F all the birds that frequent my farm,

 

“LIFE IS GIVEN US TO BE ENJOYED,”
SAY THE BARN SWALLOWS

his faults and virtues. He ruffles his feath-
ers and struts and sidle-s up to her on the
ledge of the rafter. She looks a bit bored
with it all, edges away, and presently ﬂies
off, but after awhile she is back again and
the program is repeated. Perhaps it is all
coquetry on her part. Perhaps she is as
anxious as he to begin housekeeping and
only wishes to prolong this period of gal-
lantry, knowing that all too soon the lion’s
share of the domestic responsibilities will
devolve upon her.

But let me quote from the entries in my
diary for the following year, one in which
I was more than usually faithful to it.

June 24. Paul and Virginia have built
again in the woodshed this year. The nest
is well back on the rafter under the roof
and difﬁcult to see. The pair were very
active today but I couldn’t make out what
they were doing. Twice one of the birds
ﬂew off with something white in its bill
but didn’t seem to be doing any feeding.

June 25. This morning I climbed up a
ladder and felt little warm morsels in the
swallow—nest with my ﬁnger-tips. The fam-
ily is newly hatched and the white things
were bits of eggshell, carried away, I sup-
pose, in obedience to the instinct to avoid
calling attention to the position of the nest,
though they are not at all consistent in
this. Later the parents also carried away
cleanings.

July 10. We watched Paul and Virginia
busying themselves about their nest until
one day we saw little open mouths above
the edge. Feeding went on industriously,
both parents taking part. What big bugs
and moths those baby mouths can engulf!
Toward sundown the activitiy became in-
tensiﬁed, almost feverish, as though the
little stomachs must be packed with insects
to prevent starvation before dawn. We

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Dee. 1933

 

Founded by Geo. T. Angell. Incorporated March, 1868

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARSDON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds
JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman, Chase Harris Forbes
Corporatlon
CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President, United Shoe
Machinery Corporation

PHILIP STOCKTON, President, First National Bank of
Boston

Prosecuting Ofﬁcers in Boston
Telephone (Complaints, Ambulances) Longwood 6100
L. WILLARD WALKER, Chief Ofﬁcer
HARRY L. ALLEN DAVID A. BOLTON

HARVEY R. FULLER HOWARD WILLAND
WALTER B. POPE

County Prosecuting Ofﬁcers

HERMAN N. DEAN, Boston

Middlesex, Norfolk and Plymouth
FRED T. VICKERS, Lynn Eastern Essex
WILLIAM W. HASWELL, Methuen Western Essex
THEODORE W. PEARSON, Springﬁeld,

Hampden, Hampshire and Franklin

ROBERT L. DYSON, Worcester, Worcester
WINFIELD E. DUNHAM, New Bedford, Bristol
HAROLD G. ANDREWS, Hyannis,

Barnstable, Dukes and Nantucket
EDWIN D. MOODY, Pittsﬁeld Berkshire

Rest Farm for Horses and Small Animal Shelter,
ethuen

W. W. HASWELL, Superintendent

Women’s Auxiliary of the Mass. S. P. C. A., 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston—MRS. EDITH WASHBURN
CLARKE, Pres.; MRS. A. J. FURBUSH, Treas.; MRS.
AGNES P. FISHER, Ch. Work Com.

Springﬁeld Branch—MRS. DONALD C. KIBBE, Pres.;
MRS. AARON BAGG, Treas.

Winchester Branch—MRS. RICHARD S. TAYLOR,
Pres.; MISS BESSIE SMALL, Treas.

MONTHLY REPORT OF OFFICERS
Miles traveled by humane ofﬁcers. . 13,450

Cases investigated ............... 398
Animals examined .............. 3,884
Number of prosecutions .......... 6
Number of convictions .......... 6
Horses taken from work .......... 29
Horses humanely put to sleep ..... 74
Small animals humanely put to
sleep ........................ 1,551
Stock-yards and Abattoirs
Animals inspected .............. 56,099
Cattle, swine and sheep humanely
put to sleep .................. 15

The Massachusetts Society for the Pre-
vention of Cruelty to Animals has been re-
membered in the wills of Eliza B. Leonard
of Greenﬁeld, Mary E. Libbey of Portland,
Maine, and Alice S. Roberts Of Boston.

The American Humane Education Society
has been remembered in the will of Georgi-
ana Kendall of New York City.

November 14, 1933.

Remember the Mass. Society for the Pre-
vention of Cruelty to Animals in your will.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

Angell Memorial Animal Hospital
and
Dispensary for Animals

184 Longwood Avenue Telephone, Longwood 6100

Veterinarians
DAILEY, v.M.D., Chief of Staff
SCHNEIDER, v.M.D., Asst. Chief
. SCHROEDER, D.V.M.
SCHNELLE, v.M.D.
MUNSON. v.M.D.
BLAKELY v.M.D.

HARRY L. ALLEN, Superintendent

Springﬁeld Branch
53-57 Bliss Street, Springﬁeld, Mass.
THEODORE W. PEARSON, General Manager
Veterinarians

A. R. EVANS, v.M.D.
H. L. SMEAD, D.V.M.

939.93.”;
sewage

 

 

 

HOSPITAL REPORT FOR OCTOBER
Including Springﬁeld Branch

Hospital Dispensary
Cases entered 833 Cases 2,887
Dogs 645 Dogs 2,319
Cats 176 Cats 516
Birds 6 Birds 41
Horses 5 Rabbits 4
Goat 1 Horses 3

Goats 2
Monkey 1
, ‘ Squirrel 1
Operation 1,167
Hospital cases since opening, Mar.
1, 1915 ...................... 115,125
Dispensary Cases .............. 262,648
Total ....................... 377,773

The Month in the Springﬁeld Branch

Cases entered in Hospital ........... 109
Cases entered in Dispensary ......... 296
Operations ......................... 119

MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A. IN THE
COURTS

Summary of Prosecutions in October

For inﬂicting unnecessary cruelty and
suffering upon a horse by working it with
sores under the saddle, a defendant, upon
a plea Of guilty, was ﬁned $20.

For cruelly torturing a dog by dragging
it behind his auto for a distance of one-

half mile, defendant was found guilty and
ﬁned $10.

Working a horse which had sores on
shoulders and also on sides, offender found
guilty; ﬁned $25 and sentenced one month
to House of Correction. The latter was
suspended but ﬁne was paid.

For driving a horse that was lame and
also aﬁ‘licted with sore back and shoulders,
a defendant was found guilty and ﬁned $15.
For non-payment Of ﬁne he was committed
to jail.

For cruelty to a dog by beating him
against the pavement and kicking him un-
til he was unable to rise, defendant pleaded
guilty. He was given one month at House
Of Correction which was suspended for one
year.

In 1869 a small town in one of the middle-
western states, shipped to market three car-
loads Of wild pigeons every day for four
days! This made a total of 11,880,000
pigeons killed. By this one can easily im-
agine why the passenger pigeon has van-
ished from the face Of the earth.

 

Page 185

The Horses’ Christmas

MAUD‘E' WOOD HENRY

It’s “Horses’ Day” in Boston. town,
Here comes their Christmas treat
In gala wagons loaded down
With things that horses eat—
Fresh carrots, apples, oats and corn,
Loaf sugar, too, sure as you’re born.

Now gather round, good horses all,
Who toil throughout the year

With thoughts of supper-time and stall
Which bring a little cheer;

The feast is yours, so eat your ﬁll,

And “Merry Christmas” with a will!

The drivers, too, both man and beast
May on this holiday

Enjoy a resting spell and feast
Before they go their way;

Hot eoﬂee, doughnuts crisp and brown

For every driver in the town.

And while their masters chat and lunch
The happy horses eat;

In lieu of words they chew and munch
And relish well their treat;

While those who gave them Christmastide

Feel warming glows and honest pride.

For Horses at Christmas

REE Christmas dinners for horses in

Boston will be distributed Saturday, De-
cember 23, by the Massachusetts S. P. C. A.
With the aid that comes to us in support of
this annual holiday humane feature, we
shall be able to do our part in behalf Of our
animal helpers who patiently and steadily
render us daily service throughout the year.
We know that it is now a custom which the
many friends of the horse desire» and expect
to be observed.

Trucks laden with bags of delectable,
well-balanced feed for horses, put up in in-
dividual portions, will carry their Christ-
mas present tO points where the greatest
number of animals can be reached, and
with as little obstruction to general trafﬁc
as possible. Drivers will be treated with hot
coffee and luncheon of doughnuts and sand-
wiches. Haymarket and India Squares have
been found to be advantageous locations for
distribution, and at these places the pres-
ence Of all horse-loving friends is invited.

For Our Society’s Benefit

An interesting letter comes to us from
the Junior Riding Club of Medford, Mass.,
telling us that the proceeds Of their Horse
Show to be held December 2, will be given
to our Society. We are glad to quote the
following from the letter received:

“Feeling that tampering with horses’
tails is a needless cruelty which many ex-
hibitors would willingly avoid if their en-
tries need not compete against horses en-
tered by less humane owners, we are re-
questing our exhibitors to refrain from the
use Of tail sets before the Show, and are
expressly forbidding the use of caps1cum,
ginger, or any other artiﬁcial stimulant at
the Show.”

Annual Fair, Women’s Auxiliary, Mass.

S. P. C. A., Copley Plaza, Boston, Dec. 14.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

__) ,‘_-__._._._‘..,. m *H..

 

Page 188

OUR DUMB' ANIMALS,

The Largest of All Cattle

NEVIN 0. WINTER

 

CARABAOS— THE FILIPINO FARMERS’ BEST FRIENDS

HEN speaking of cattle in conver-
W sation, we usually refer only to the

common domesticated animals
known by that name. But the family of cud-
chewers, to which the ox and cow belong, is
a large one. It includes the bison, the musk-
ox, the yak and the water buffalo, as well as
the horned, hornless and humped animals
universally known as cattle, all of which
have been trained to work for man except
the two ﬁrst named.

The largest of all the cattle is the water
buffalo. An occasional bull will stand six
feet on his unshod feet, with an equal
spread of horns, although such a huge crea-
ture is the exception. The species found in
the Philippines, known as the carabao, is
somewhat smaller, but it possesses the very
same general characteristics. The triangu-
lar-shaped horns curve downward and back-
ward, imparting to the animal a ferocious
appearance. This buffalo of the Far East
is very different from the American buf-
falo, which is more properly called the bison.

A herd of water buffalo peacefully graz-
ing is certain to attract the attention of an
American, because they are so unlike our
own domesticated cattle. They have a wild
and forbidding appearance. Seeing about
ﬁfty of them in an unenclosed ﬁeld adjoin—
ing the highway as I was motoring near
Manila, I told my driver to stop, as I
wanted to take a photograph. I walked to
the side of the road and was adjusting my
graﬂex, when the driver shouted to me
to get into the automobile. I had noticed
that two bulls, not more than one hundred
feet away, were watching me closely but
had thought nothing of it. He understood
their actions better than I.

“Carabao no like white people—no like
smell,” he explained. Do you grasp the full
meaning of this? With the natives they are
docile and tractable, and many of the Fil-
ippinos are almost as black as Negroes. In
fact, several of the tribes have a generous
negroid mixture, which shows in their fea-
tures. That the carabao does not like the
odor of the Caucasian has been proved many
times, and it has the reputation of possess-
ing a very bad temper when once aroused.

The water buffalo is especially‘ suited to
a warm and moist country. It is almost in-
dispensable in the cultivation of rice. It
would rather splash through a water-soaked
ﬁeld than walk over dry earth. With head
held low and nose thrust forward, it will
pull the plow steadily and uncomplainingly
for hours, but there are certain demands.
It must be allowed to rest during the hot-
test part of the day, and at stated inter-
vals it must be permitted to soak itself in
water or wallow in mud much as do the
pigs. If deprived of this for long, the thick
skin cracks, the feet become sore and the
animal actually sickens—sometimes becom-
ing raging mad.

Even in Manila, which has become mod-
ernized in many ways, one will see almost
as many water buffalos in harness as horses.
They are stronger than the docile ox—and
slower. All their movements are awkward
and sluggish. It does not require much ex-
ertion to get out of their way. In one re-
spect they resemble the mule, for they do
not like to be hurried.

The domesticated water buffalos cover a
wide range. Their native home was prob-
ably India, for that is the only country
where wild ones are still found. From there
they have spread to Java and neighboring
islands, to China and Japan, to southeast-
ern Europe. They appeared in Italy as
early as the seventh century. A few will
be found in Spain.

The buﬁalo cow will yield a larger quan-
tity of milk than our own domesticated cows.
The meat is eaten, although considered in-
ferior to beef. The thick hide makes an
excellent tough leather. Adding these con-
tributions to their value as beasts of bur-
den, it will be seen that the water buffalo
plays an important part in the general
scheme of things and is invaluable to man.

Dec. 1933
At the Switchboard

N interesting and amusing paper was

read at the last meeting of the Ameri-
can Humane Association at Hartford by
Miss Blanche Weiss, assistant secretary
of the Pennsylvania Society for the Pre-
vention of Cruelty to Animals, who evi-
dently has charge of the switchboard. We
are giving only a paragraph or two from
the paper. It is so like what is happening
every day at our own switchboard here at
the oﬂﬁces of the Massachusetts S. P. C. A.,
where the average is, about 250 calls every
24 hours, and doubtless at other switch-
boards of many a humane society, that it
will be appreciated by those of our readers
who have to answer the innumerable calls
constantly coming in.

Suppose you listen in with me any morn-
ing on one of our ﬁve telephone trunk lines
at the ofﬁce of The Pennsylvania S. P. C. A.
in Philadelphia. You would hear something
like this:—

Brr-W—Excited foreigner demanding im-
mediate aid for suffering dog, struck by
hit-runner. “Speak more slowly, please.
Where did you say? ‘I said—where did it
happen? Where—did-it-happen?” While you
are still trying to understand his broken
English another bell sounds—a wealthy and
autocratic member who does not like to be
kept waiting. “So sorry. I was on another
phone.” She reports an overloaded horse.
While you assure her it is shocking and
will have prompt attention, two glowering
men stalk in and stand beside the desk.
They are determined to ﬁnd out who said
they did not feed their cows. Very quietly
you explain that names are. never given out
and that since our agent found nothing
wrong, they had better just forget it, and
interrupt yourself to direct a woman with a
sick cat to the door leading to the inﬁrm-
ary. Boy Scout arrives carrying a stray
dog, for which he hopes we can ﬁnd a home.
BW-W—“What will I do about a barking
dog? I didn’t sleep a wink all night.”
Brr-rr—an angry voice. “Mrs. So. and So.,
next door, says she is going to make trouble
for me just because my sweet little Tootsie
ran over her lawn.” B’rr-rr—“Oﬁ‘icer Fin-
negan speaking.” Has arrested a man who
smashed his car into a milk-wagon horse.
You signal the garage. Ambulance driver
appears. Swift directions. In a moment the
clang of the bell and relief for the injured
horse is on the way. A youngster asks—
“Do you give away puppies?” You tell him
he must bring his father or mother to say
it’s all right. Brr-rr—Horse down with
paralysis. Another ambulance goes out.
Brr—rr—“Agent Blank reporting—Sixth
District.” “Wait—here are two cases for
you.” Brr-rr—“My dog won’t eat. What
shall I do?” BW-W—“Cat up a tree.”
“Mild weather—don’t worry! It will come
down.” Brr-rr—“I saw a ﬁlm last night—-

cruel—bad for children. Can’t you stop it?”
Brr-rr—“Stock-yards’ agent calling. Ambu-
lance, please.”

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 90

 
  

GLORY T0
GOD,
PEACE ON EARTH,
KINDNESS, Jusruce 0
mo MERCY 'ro
EVERY LIVING
CREATURE.

      
   
 

   

7
m
2

   
   

Founded by Geo. T. Angell. Incorporated, 1889

For rates of membership in both of our Societies
see back cover. Checks should be made payable to
Treasurer.

Ofﬁcers of the American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds

JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman, Chase Harris Forbes
Corporation
CHARLES G. BANCROF'I‘, Vice-President, United Shoe

Machinery Corporatlon

PHILIP STOCKTON, President, First National Bank of
Boston

Foreign Corresponding Representatives

George B. Duff .................... Australia

Luis Pareja Cornejo .............. Ecuador

Charles A. Williams ............... France

Leonard T. Hawksley ............. Italy

Mrs. Mary P. E. Nitobe .......... Japan

Mrs. Marie C. E. Houghton ........ Madeira

Dr. A. T. Ishkanian ............... Mexico

Luther Parker .................... Philippine Islands
Joaquin Julia .................... Spain

Mrs. Alice W. Manning ........... Turkey

Humane Press Bureau

Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke, Secretary
180 Longwood Ave., Boston

Field Workers of the Society

Mrs. Alice L. Park, Palo Alto, California
Mrs. Rachel C. Hogue, San Diego, California
Mrs. Jennle R. Nichols, Tacoma, Washington
James D. Burton, Oakdale, Tennessee
Mrs. Katherine Weathersbee, Atlanta, Georgia
Rev. F. Rivers Barnwell, Fort Worth, Texas
MISS Blanche Finley, Richmond, Virginia
Rev. John W. Lemon, Ark, Virginia
MISS Lucia F. Gilbert, Boston, Massachusetts
Mrs. Jennie R. Toomim, Chicago, Illinois
Seymour Carroll, Columbia, S. C.

Field Representative

Wm. F. H. Wentzell, M.S., Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

Field Lecturer in Massachusetts
Ella A. Maryott

‘ ‘Virginia”
AARON MOORE BAGG

“Virginia” comes, although I want to write
An ode or something equally grotesque;
She seems to take particular delight
In archly sitting down upon my desk.
I never hope to have a bit of peace,
For when Virginia comes like this to me,
I know at once that all my work must cease;
So I submit to her quite patiently.
She sings some words of love for me to hear;
Then, lifting up her face to kiss my cheek,
She tells me that her love is quite sincere
.And that another she will never seek.
Virginia always thinks the world of me
And after we have had an amorous chat
And pledged our love, she goes contentedly—
Virginia goes, my big Angora cat.

In making your will, please remember
the American Humane Education Society
of Boston, the ﬁrst of its kind in the world.

OUR DUMB

Fez American Fondouk
MONTHLY REPORT

And Interesting Letter from Percival P.

Baxter, Former Governor of Maine
March, 1933—31 Days

Daily average large animals 74.5

Forage for same $78.28
Daily average dogs 7.2

Forage for same 4.44
Put to sleep 18 3.77
Transportation 4.91
Wages, grooms, etc. 77.90
Inspector’s wages 18.41
Superintendent’s salary 99.00
Assistant’s salary 49.50
Veterinary’s salary 15.84
Motor allowance 9.90
Sundries 23.40

$385.35

Entries: 13 horses, 23 mules, 63 donkeys.

Exits: 9 horses, 18 mules, 51 donkeys.

SUPT.’S NOTES: We have this month doubled the
visits to the Native Fondouks. Numbers are going up
again. Assistant’s and Inspector’s Report on the 70
Native Fondouks: Visits, 440; animals seen, 4,253;
animals treated, 1,185; animals taken to the Fondouk
Americain, 79.

The ﬁrst quarter of 1933, January, February and
March, has cost $1,185.85.

The daily average for these 90 days has been 70
large animals.

This makes no record of a daily average of eight
dogs, or food 720 times during the 90 days.

It looks as if we might keep our budget inside
$4,800, this trying year. We need to, but it may get
nearer to the $5,000, which largely depends on weather
and crops.

Governor Baxter’s Letter

“I Visited the American Fondouk in Fez
early in April and was deeply impressed
by the work being done there to lessen the
sufferings of the domestic animals of
Morocco.

“The Fondouk is a rectangular enclo-
sure or court about 200 feet square with
low one—story sheds, open on the court
sides, surrounding it. On the right, as
one enters through the
gate, is a small Ofﬁce ad-
joining which is a room
used for Operating, and
extending from that point
around the four sides of
the court are the open
sheds which are at all
times ﬁlled with donkeys
and horses under treat-
ment at the Fondouk.

“At the time Of my
Visit there were more
than ninety animals being
cared for and all Of these
poor creatures showed evi-
dence of shocking abuse.
Of course any animals
brought in that are too
far gone for recovery are
humanely destroyed. The
sores and wounds on these
emaciated and cruelly
treated donkeys and
horses that I saw at the
Fondouk were most dis-
tressing. Notwithstanding
their condition, the poor
creatures seemed to ap-
preciate what was being
done for them and they
seemed happy and con-
tented in their temporary
haven Of refuge. Some
were lying on the straw,
stretched out and having
perhaps the ﬁrst real
peace in their short lives,
While others were stand-
ing patiently while their

. ._._ L ,‘...._._._...___._._-L_~_ LL. .V-LL.~

ANIIMALS

June, 1933

wounds were being treated with disinfect-
ants and healing lotions.

“NO person with a love for animals can
visit this establishment without appreciat-
ing and approving the splendid work car-
ried on there. The superintendent, Mr.
Brown, is a man well ﬁtted for the posi-
tion. He understands the natives Of Mo-
rocco and keeps in touch with the local
Ofﬁcials. He told me that the new Pasha or
Governor approves Of the Fondouk and
gives it his support. Mr. Brown and his
agents daily Visit the markets and other
places where the animals are gathered
together as they come in from the out-
lying districts. The natives are being
taught to treat their animals more kindly,
but, where necessary, Old Offenders are
prosecuted and punished.

Mr. Brown has collected several bushels
Of long steel needles, thorns, and other
instruments Of torture that have been
taken from the native drivers and conﬁs-
cated by the Fondouk Oﬁ‘icials, and I
brought home samples of these with me.

“In the center Of the court is a cement
pool, shaded from the sun, in which ani-
mals stand when their feet need treat-
ment. There, also, are rooms for fodder
and other articles used in connection with
the work. The American Fondouk is set-
ting an example to other communities in
Morocco and its inﬂuence for the more hu—
mane treatment Of animals already is
spreading far beyond the city in which it
is located. It is an oasis Of mercy in a
desert of cruelty.”

The greatest need of America is more
education of the heart. HIRAM POWERS

 

FORMER GOVERNOR BAXTER OF MAINE AND SU-
PERINTENDENT BROWN AT THE FONDOUK IN FEZ

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 6.2

(Eh? ﬂank! of merry

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

E. A. MARYOTT, State Organizer
PLEDGE

I will try to be kind to all living creatures and try
to protect them from cruel usage.

The American Humane Education Society will send
to every person who forms a Band of Mercy of thirty
members, and sends the name chosen for the 'Band and
the name and post-ofﬁce address of the pres1d_ent who
has been duly elected, special Band of Mercy literature
and a gilt badge for the president.

See inside front cover for prices of literature and
Band of Mercy supplies.

NEW BANDS OF MERCY

Five hundred and ninety-two new Bands
of Mercy were reported during February.
Of these, 199 were in Illinois, 88 in Massa-
chusetts, 74 in Texas, 66 in Florida, 59 in
Georgia, 39 in Pennsylvania, 31 in Virginia,
13 in Syria, 12 in West Virginia, sev:n in
Tennessee, and one each in Bulgaria, Con—
necticut, Minnesota, and New York.

Total number Bands of Mercy organized
by Parent American Society, 192,954

An Impressive Service

UR devoted and efﬁcient humane educa-

tion worker, Miss Lucia F. Gilbert,
spoke recently to the children of a parochial
school in the Catholic Church of the city.
She was asked to speak from inside the
altar rail. In closing the children unani-
mously voted, by upraised hands, and amid
perfect silence, that it was right to pray
for animals and to ask God to help us to
be kind to them. Then all knelt in the
hushed stillness of the church for silent
prayer. There were present 350 children
with their teachers and the pastor, who is
the vice—president of the local S. P. C. A.

A Model Junior League

The Midway Junior Humane League of
Barnesville, Ga., has set a ﬁne example
during the past year for constructive hu-
mane work. Among its many activities we
note the following: dramatization of “The
Bell of Atri” and the presentation of pro-
grams made up of selections from Our
Dumb Animals. The League has forty-six
honorary members who give it their staunch
support. The exceptional interest in bird
and animal study carried out by this ex-
emplary club has been tactfully fostered
by Miss Earlean U. Williams, a school
teacher who fully appraises the value of
early humane education.

Never a day should pass without all of
us saying, “By the God that is in us there
shall be no more war.”

JOHN GALSWORTHY

 

OUR

DUllIB

A N I ll] A L S

Apr. 1935’

_Mark Twain and Cats

HARRIET BLOGG

said that he loved all animals—that

his big tender heart had a place in it
for every creature—but the fact that of all
animals he was fondest of the cat has been
emphasized by his biographers,
so that it has become a char-
acteristic always associated with
him.

Katie Leary, the faithful
maid of the Clemens family,
said, “Mr. Clemens was so crazy
about cats that he’d stop any—
thing—even his writing, to
speak to a cat! All the
cats Mr. Clemens had seemed
to understand everything he
said to them—just like humans
they’d listen to him.”

One summer the Clemens fam-
ily had eleven cats at their
farm, Katie tells us, and they
used to have a “cat procession”
with Mr. and Mrs. Clemens,
their three little girls, the pet_
donkey and all the cats walking V
around the grounds.

Mr. Paine, Mark Twain’s
chief biographer, says of him,
“There were always cats at the
farm. From childhood to old
age, Mark Twain loved cats, and
his children inherited this pas-
sion.” The oldest daughter,
when a little child, once said,
“The difference between Papa
and Mamma is that Mamma loves morals
and Papa loves cats.”

A very favorite cat was called “Satan,”
a big, black animal found apparently in a
dying state on the river bank, but proving
gay and lively after being brought to the
house and warmed and fed. Satan turned
out to be a female. and in due course had a
pretty gray kitten, which Mark Twain
called “ ‘Sin,’ the daughter of Satan.”
Some of his other cats were named “Deuter-
onomy,” “Genesis,” and “Sour Mash.”
“Bambino” was another cat which, Katie
tells us, was trained to wash its face in the
wash-basin every morning; and this same
kitten was taught to put out a tiny lamp at
the head of the bed occupied by Mr. Clem-
ens.

A charming photograph of Mark Twain
shows him sitting with both hands clasped
about a tiny kitten on which he beams a
kindly look.

When about to move into his beautiful
new home at Redding, he said he wouldn’t
move in until the cats had had their break-
fasts and were purring on the hearth.

MARK TWAIN loved cats. It might be

'3

“When they were doing that, he said,” so
Katie tells us, “he’d know everything was
settled and he’d be ready to come, too.”
From the same source we learn that the
house was robbed one night. Mr. Clemens

 

MARK TWAIN FONDLING ONE OF HIS KITTENS

ON THE BILLIARD-TABLE

didn’t know about it until the next day.
He wrote a note to any future burglars
who might attempt to rob him and fastened
it on the front door. He wrote that they
used only plated ware in his house; that
there was nothing valuable there except the
family; that if the burglars wanted the
plated ware it was in a basket in the dining-
room, where the cats were, “but anyway,
please not to disturb the cats.”

Mark Twain had two kittens called “Sin-
bad” and “Billiards” that had a way of
jumping up on the billiard-table, shoving
the balls around, and stopping the game.
“But he never said a word,” says Katie
Leary. “He’d just stop the game and wait
patient as could be, until they were all
through fooling.” And she adds, “He never
could have too many cats to suit him——
which is a good sign in a man.”

Let us not think that in the natural
voices of animals, or'songs of birds, there
is no meaning; my belief is far otherwise.

I do not doubt that the same beneﬁcent
Being who goes in all things far beyond
what is merely needful, who clothes the
earth, and adorns the ﬁrmament with bright
and soothing colors, and ﬁlls the air with
sweet sounds and fragrant smells, gives to
birds and beasts pleasure as well as He an-
swers their needs from the sounds He en-
ables them to utter.

So no one can doubt that there is love in
the spring song of the thrush, and joy in
the carol of the lark on high.

SIR JOHN T. COLERIDGE, 1853

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

/
Published monthly by the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals,

01. ANC’E

u u. S,Trade Mark, Registered IL

LL m 1868.AND FOR Fomy.

The Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

The American Humane Education Society

The American Band of Mercy

I would not enter on my list of friends,
Though graced with polished manners and ﬁne sense,
Yet wanting sensibility, the man
Who needlessly sets foot upon a worm.
—COWPER

Enter-ed as second-class matter, June 29, 1917, at the Post Oﬂ‘ice at Norwood, Mass.,

Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of Oct

1 AND MERCY 70*
EVERY LIVING
CREATURE.

 

46 Central Street, Norwood, Massachusetts

under the Act of March 3, 1879
ober 3, 1917, authorized, July 13, 1919

Boston Ofﬁce, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

 

Vol. 66

What better way to help balance the bud-
get than to take the War Department out
of the schools?

Every time some cruel or heedless motor-
ist crushes on the road an unfortunate toad
or frog, all the insect pests of the neighbor-
hood shout for joy and the gardener mourns.

We extend congratulations to the Gov-
ernor and citizens of Oregon who so
promptly and effectively suppressed the
attempt to feature a bull-ﬁght on two rodeo
programs.

To talk peace, to spend hundreds of thou-
sands to send men to Disarmament Confer-
ences and then to keep on training our boys
to be soldiers is simply saying “Yes” and
“No” at the same time.

England has a new humane law. It au-
thorizes the magistrates to deprive the
owner who has been convicted of cruelty to
his dog of his ownership, or to even have the
custody of a dog. No other country in the
world, it is stated, has adopted such a
measure.

What pages of the Congressional Record
might never have been printed with no loss
to the world when one thinks of their worth
as compared with the blind Senator’s (Sena-
tor Schall) tribute in the Congressional
Record of May 23 to his faithful dog “LuX,”
who died undoubtedly from grief at his
master’s absence.

If thousands of tax-payers are willing to
pay the Government to have militarism
taught in our schools, Why should not those
thousands who are opposed to militarism
have the right to have some of their tax-
paid money go to teaching peace in our
schools? Of course, the Government could
not do both without knocking down with
one hand What it would be trying to build
up with the other.

August, 1933

In the Name of Humanity

GAINST cruelty, inhumanity in any
of its forms, our two Societies have
from the beginning uttered their protest.
Devoted as we are to the welfare of animals,
we still must place our human kind ﬁrst.
There lies before us as we write a pamph—
let entitled “The Jews in Nazi Germany—
The Factual Record of their Persecution
by the National Socialists.” We shall not
quote from it. The facts, thoroughly vouched
for, are too unbelievable, to-o tragic to de-
tail to our readers. Sufﬁce it to say that
among all the bitter persecutions the Jews
have suffered since their history began, few
have equalled that now being inﬂicted upon
them by the man who has trodden rough-
shod to power over every thing human and
divine that has seemed to stay his progress.
Human rights, the sacredest in every
civilized land, have been brutally denied
some of the ﬁnest citizens of Germany. Even
the right to worship God according to the
dictates of one’s own conscience has been
forbidden under penalty of imprisonment.
Homes have been broken up, lifelong as-
sociations and traditions disregarded.

Are the gods making this man mad that
they may destroy him? This we know—
the great mass of the German people are
not responsible for this. Every newspaper
is censored, and the people are kept in
ignorance of what is being done. The rank
and ﬁle of the German nation are not
beasts of prey. Germany’s past of cul-
ture and solid common sense and industry
we must not forget. Heaven forbid that
we should indict a whole nation for the
barbaric leadership of a dominating few.
In spite of all we still hold to our faith, a
Christian faith as well as a Jewish one,
that the God of Israel slumbereth not nor
sleepeth; clouds and darkness are round.
about Him,righteousness and judgment are
the habitatiOn of His throne.

Lincoln said: “Stand with anybody that
stands right. Stand with him while he is
right, and part with him when he goes
wrong.”

No. 8

The Gossipers’ Drive for
Kindness

HO are the Gossipers? Broadcasters

advertising .a well-known Boston res-
taurant company. They are deeply inter-
ested in animal welfare, lovers of all unfor-
tunate creatures who can never plead their
cause over the radio. They have a dog named
Lester and a cat named Mitzi. In connec-
tion with their advertising work over the
radio they are seeking to reach thousands
of boys and girls in New England and
secure their interest in what might be
called a Be Kind to Animals Club. Every
boy and girl is asked to secure a card from
the Walton Restaurant Co., Boston, which
is signed with the promise to be kind to
all animals, and a. button with Lester’s
picture on it is then sent the applicant. In-
deed men and women as well as boys and
girls are joining the movement and we are
glad to encourage it by telling our readers
about it. We have received our own Lester
Club button as evidence of membership. He
who see-ks to widen the spirit of kindness is
a benefactor to his race. God speed every
such man and woman!

We are very glad to tell all the friends
of the American Fondouk at Fez that His
Excellency, Si Mohammed Tazi, the Pacha
of Fez, has graciously consented to accept
the invitation to become the Honorary Pa-
tron of the Fondouk. How much this will
mean for the recognition and value of our
humane work at Fez, only those can ap-
preciate who know the inﬂuence of the
Pacha over the Arabs. Tazi is quite of
our modern day in character and education.

A decline in the number of prosecutions
for acts of cruelty to animals from an aver-
age of 750 a month in England ﬁfteen years
ago to 250 today bears witness to the value
of humane education and the work of hu-
mane societies. We imagine the prosecu-
tions in this country have decreased by
nearly the same percentage.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

June, 1933

He Emptied the Dog Pound

ROBERT PRICE

[LL RANNELLS lives with eight

dogs and two cats. So goes the
story around Columbus, Ohio, whenever
appraising critics wish to emphasize the
fact that one of the country’s ﬁnest dog
artists not only paints but really knows the
subjects which he portrays. Rannells, who
is an instructor in drawing at the Ohio
State University, has of late years acquired
an enviable national reputation for his very
ﬁne pictorial records of animal life, par-
ticularly of dogs. You probably have seen
some of his fascinating covers for Life—
“Another Scotch Story” for instance.

This illustrative work through which the
general public knows Rannells is really
something more than merely successful
commercial art. Rannells is a genuine art-
ist, with all the ﬁnished artist’s technique
and an artist’s profound love and sympathy
for the pets he portrays. In the Middle
West, where his original drawings and
paintings are most frequently exhibited, he
has no small trade as a canine portrait
maker. Some of the country’s most aristo-
cratic dogs have sat for his canvases, also
many a cur gathered in from the gutter or
the dog pound.

Rannells’ secret of portraiture seems to
be in his ability to make every dog he pic-
tures something more than a mere dog or
type of dog. Folks like Rannells’ pictures
because he has the knack of making one
forget that the silky-eared or sad-eyed or
impertinent—nosed fellow looking out from
a sheet of snow-white paper is a perfect
specimen of the genus “hound” or “collie”
or “Scotty.” Rather it is a live, nose-
quivering, affection-emanating being that
makes one’s ﬁngers tingle to rub and to
pat.

As a matter of fact, these life-like dogs,
catalogued under such names as “Bugle,”
“Topsy,” “Briar,” “Old Black Nipper,” or
“Just a Dog,” (these names are from a
recent one-man exhibit in Columbus) are
all genuine dog personalities which have
really sat for Rannells’ facile brush and
pencﬂ.

The family of pets which he always has
around him furnish many of these sitters.
Many more are distinguished, blooded ar-
istocrats brought to him for portraits. Still
more are mongrel waifs gathered in from
here and there. All of them he makes his
friends, with consummate knack, works
with them, plays with them, until each sub-
ject has been brought to the status of an
obedient, sympathetic sitter for a rever-
enced master.

Art critics, when they can forget about
the genuineness of Rannells’ dog person-
alities, have much to say about his peculiar
art technique. Most of his portraiture is
done with charcoal or lithograph pencil and
water color washes, sometimes with oils.
Always, he accomplishes his portrait with
an amazing economy of detail. A few
exactly drafted lines, a spot or two of color
on a snowy expanse of paper, and Rannells
has captured an alert, vibrant terrier or
beagle or cur. He works less frequently
and less successfully in oils, for it is a
slower medium. Somehow his ﬁnest magic
is accomplished through the skilled exact-
ness and wise sense of selection with which

.OUR DUMB ANIMALS

he wields the swifter pencil and water
color. The speed of the medium seems to
catch better the friskiness of his sensi-
tive sitters.

The story about Rannells and the dog
pound is the favorite one going the rounds
just now. Several months ago, Rannells
became very much interested in the home-
less little fellows which had landed in the
Columbus dog pound. He took the waifs
home, one at a time, won their conﬁdence,
and induced them to sit for a series of
black and white pencil sketches which were
eventually published from week to week in
the Columbus Citizen. The clever sketches
and the appealing bits of verbal descrip-
tion which accompanied each one, caught
the public’s fancy and sympathy immedi-
ately, and when the series had ended, so
the story is told, every hapless transient in
the city dog pound had found a good home.

The Horse and the Farmer
CONRAD O. PETERSON

HE depression has caused many farm-
ers to return to the use of the horse,
and it is said in farming circles that the
demand for horses is becoming greater,
with a corresponding increase in prices.
Farm back-yards are littered with worn-
out tractors, but the good old stand-by,
the horse, is always ready to do his work.
The high cost of gasoline and tractor re-
placements, has caused the farmer to again
regard the horses as a necessity. With the
increase in value, I ﬁnd that horses receive
better care, because a horse must have
proper care and food to do his work well.
The average farmer treats his horses
with kindness, due no doubt to the fact
that man and horses are usually insepar-
able companions all day long. Through
spring planting, hot summer, and harvest
time, man and horses trudge up and down
ﬁelds from morn until night. They ﬁnd
something in common, in work like this,
and it is small wonder that they really get
to know each other.
When “Old Dobbin” gets too old to
work, he generally spends his last days in
the pasture, where he can roam at will.

Dobbin Carries On

JOHN P. DINNENY

Undismayed by technocracy, or the-

assault of science all along the line of
modern industry, the dairy—wagon horse is
more than holding his own.

Trafﬁc managers of all three of New
York City’s principal milk distributors in-
sist that the horse is all but human. They
ought to know something about it for be-
tween them they have 7,000 horses.

Within three months after being “found”
on the farms of the middle west, they as-
sert, the dairy-wagon horse has learned his
route, watches his driver out of the corner
of his eye and moves along and stops as
the milkman plods from house to house,
leaving hooded cap bottles. No automobile,
they say, will ever do that, even with radio
control.

A milk-wagon horse gets “Grade A”
care and attention. Just as the cows from
which Grade A milk comes, are inspected
at frequent intervals to prevent disease,
veterinarians in the employ of the milk
companies keep close watch on the horses.

Page 93
A Dog’s Meditation

SERAPH LLEWELLYN

I wish I’ knew why they are strangely sad
And speak of him as in some far of place.
Can they not see him here beside me now——
See the kind smile that lights my master’s
face ?’

I dumbly ponder, being just a dog,
And haunt the paths we travel every day.
He seems the nearer when we are apart
From those who weep and mourn him as
away.

They call me queer and say I’m getting
blind,
The way I walk unseeing here and there.
They cannot understand I follow him
From room to room and up and down the
stair.

A strange mist glowing soft about him
seems
To stand between us; yet, I feel his
hand——
Or run in answer to his dear loved voice——
Would I could speak and make them un-
derstand.

Their Pets

MINNA IRVING

USICIANS are fond of pets as a rule,

and most of the radio head-liners
have one or more. B. A. Rolfe got into
court not very long ago for defending his
dog from an unmuzzled police-dog in Cen-
tral Park. Walter Damrosch has spoken on
the air of his dog as showing a decided
sense of music and a preference for certain
pieces when he plays the piano. Edwin
Franko Goldman has a beloved Maltese
terrier, “Cutie,” which he bought from a
vendor of puppies on Fifth Avenue one
snowy night ten years ago. Henry Fill-
more’s Radio “Mike” is too well known to
need mention here. Paul Specht says he
could ﬁll a book with tales about inter-
esting pets. Paul Whiteman raises Scotties.
Lieutenant Charles Benter, leader of the
Navy Band, cherishes a Boston terrier
whose favorite napping-place is on his desk.
Bert Kauff, who used to lead the jazz band
at the Knickerbocker Grill, moved three
times because of objections to his chow,
and told me that he was looking for a house
in the country where she could bark when
she felt like it.

We are sometimes discouraged, you and
I, about the human species? Ah, yes. But
we need not be. We can hug this comfort
to our breasts. We cannot be wholly bad,
we two-leggeds—or our dogs wouldn’t love
us so. They see in us something very prec-
ious: something worth ﬁshing out of rivers,
and saving from ﬁres, and protecting from
thieves. Something worth dying for, if
need be. VERA CONNOLLY in Delineator

We are certain that unless the churches
take a clear and consistent stand on this
matte-r of life and death (war) to our civil-
ization and to the world they will merit the
contempt of men and the judgment of God.

HARRY EMERSON FOSDICK

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 166

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

A Tireless Aviator

NEVIN 0. WINTER

HE clever chimney swift has changed

its habits to meet the conditions pre-

sented by civilization. Originally nest-
ing in hollow trees, it now chooses the chim-
neys of dwellings and the tall smoke-stacks
of abandoned factories. Soot-covered bricks
certainly are not nearly so pleasant as the
clean interior of a decayed forest monarch.
But the dusky-colored swifts must have a
fondness for human society, for they are
much more common about towns and cities
than in the country.

A great many people confuse the chimney
swift with the swallows, for their feeding
habits are practically the same; but it be-
longs to a very different family. It is a
near relative of the night-loving whippoor-
will and a sort of second cousin of the rest-
less hummingbird. The wings vibrate much
more rapidly than the swallows’, being al-
most bat-like, and it is always chattering.
I doubt if any other of our common birds
spends so many hours a—wing, for from
sunrise until almost dusk it is scouring the
air for ﬂying insects. It is much smaller
than the purple martin or the fork-tailed
barn swallow. The wings are much nar-
rower. The bill and tail are hardly worth
mentioning.

Did you ever see a chimney swift perch—
ing on a wire or limb? If so, please report
it. The feet are so constructed that it can
cling only to an upright surface. It sleeps
in that position as easily as an old hen
dozes on a horizontal pole. The tail fea-
thers end in sharp, stiff points that serve
as props. The reason that you never see
a swift at rest is because it only alights on
the inside of a chimney or hollow tree. I
never tire of watching it, for it twists and
turns as though trying to go through a
series of grotesque antics. Sometimes it
looks as though the birds were playing a
game of tag. And the chatter never cease-s
for a moment.

The swifts usually nest in small numbers
in unused chimneys of occupied houses. The
material is small sticks, which are snapped
off dead limbs in ﬂight. They are glued to
the rough wall by a sticky substance se-
creted in the mouth. Sometimes a piece of
brick will break off before the glue will
separate. When completed, the nest looks
like a small shelf, slightly hollowed, and in
it are laid from three to ﬁve long and nar-
row white eggs. From these will emerge
tiny, naked babies which, after two weeks,
can cling to the rough bricks as well as
their parents.

It is after the nesting season that the
large gatherings of swifts will be seen.
Scouts must be ever on the lookout for
promising smoke-stacks. In one instance
coming under my observation, a factory
changed its power system so that the tall
chimney was no longer needed. Within a
few days the swifts discovered it and hun-
dreds would be seen each evening circling
about time and again, ﬁnally dropping down
into it like a swarm of gigantic bumblebees.
If one listened at the bottom, a hum could
be heard, as though some of the birds were
continually changing their positions. Per-
haps they were awakened by bad dreams
or accidentally loosened their toe hold upon
the rough surface.

 

THE SWIFT ALWAYS CLINGS TO
A VERTICAL SURFACE

John Burroughs tells us in one of‘2his. books
of a monstrous chimney observed by him
where probably ten thousand swifts nested
each night for six weeks before they started
for the South. No one has yet discovered
just where the swifts spend the winter.
They gather by the thousands on the Gulf
Coast, but nothing has been reported about
their movements after the-y begin their
ﬂight across the broad Gulf of Mexico un-
til they reappear, chattering happily, late
in March or early in April of the following
spring. Their return is welcomed by every
bird lover, for they are useful to mankind.

The Goldfinch

LYNN RUSSELL

Down beside the purling stream

Where the nodding willows dream
I have heard you sing;

Thrilling and delighting me

With your sweet-toned ecstasy
Happier than a king.

I had hoped that soon I might
See your undulated flight
As you twitter by,
Heading toward the alders brown
Where a nest of thistledown
Holds a mate more shy.

Wild canary, robed in gold,

Life for you does not grow old,
Time is always young;

Filling all the world with grace,

Earth becomes a joyful place
Where your notes are sung.

 

Nov. 1933
Prison Bird in Death Cell

MINNIE ANGELO

ECAUSE I am the best layer of my
B species in the world I am condemned
to one year’s imprisonment and then death.

The year is to be spent in a tiny wire
cage, not over four times my size. This
cage has not even a solid or level ﬂoor for
my tired feet to rest upon. It is made of
openwork wire and is of enough slant to
permit the eggs which I drop daily to roll
down into a trough outside the wire ﬂoor.
This egg is dropped, not laid, for I have no
round comfortable nest such as hens delight
to line with feathers. Nor have I a perch
to curl my toes around nights—an instinc-
tive heritage which I suffer in trying to
overcome.

My feed is dry. Never a wisp of green
grass or a bug. These are supposed to be
incorporated into this dry, “perfectly bal-
anced” feed.

I am not perfectly balanced physically,
nor mentally, for I teeter uneasily on the
slanting wire twenty-four hours, for three
hundred and sixty-ﬁve days, which equals
eight thousand seven hundred sixty hours,
does it not? This keeps me constantly at
a nervous tension.

Well, at the end of that time I shall be
such a burned-but wreck, that I will be glad
to go. I shall possibly die from a nervous
trouble which I observe attacks my sisters.
They hop and scream and cackle, in this
eternal din around me until, quite suddenly,
one of them stiffens her legs and falls on
her side. Then the man who feeds us and
who, once a day, rolls up the long, wide,
strip of paper which is stretched under our
netting ﬂoor to catch our droppings; picks
the stiffened sufferer out and throws her
aside.

If I don’t happen to die during my year
of hysteria, I shall be taken out and sent
to market. Not for a fryer of course, I am
too stringy to fry, but for boiling, stewing,
fricassee, or for canning. Good potatoes and
gravy with my ﬁnely chopped ﬂesh may help
to fool some human beings.

Perhaps, if you can’t enjoy the meal, you
will only wonder at the lack of food value
and the tastelessness of that tough old leg-
horn hen that you tried to chew.

I think it must be naturally impossible
for such nervous, stringy ﬂesh to be of any
beneﬁt to any human stomach and for the
eggs from such a creature to be of any food
value.

The woman to whom I tried to cry out
my suffering stood very still watching us
all. Then she walked over and pityingly
stroked the latest victim which lay stiff on
its side.

“Poor thing,” she said. “Possibly it is not
too late to try and have this heartsickening
evidence of the greed of man abolished, be-
fore it becomes a nation-wide disgrace. My
family and I will eat no meat nor eggs
that come from such misused fowls. Brown
eggs for mine until I learn that this sort of
torture cell has been abolished.”

I hope that you agree with her.

 

EDITOR’S NOTE: It is not humane either to keep
hens under such conditions as are described in thls
article to get the last possible egg nor to keep cows
shut in stables months at a time to get the last pos-
sible drop of milk. Fewer eggs and a little less milk
and a just regard for the health and comfort of these
poor creatures, human decency demands, to say
nothing of justice and compassion.

w?

 




 

Sept. 1933
Black and Blue but Blithe

CARL SCHURZ LOWDEN

UT in tree-dotted shrubby woods inr

summertime you may meet a most de-
lightful little citizen who seems to think his
mission consists of making our world a
roundelay of happy existence. You may
never have encountered him; if not, an en-
joyable experience is waiting for you.

This fellow I have in mind is known as
the indigo bird or indigo bunting. In the
spectrum or rainbow scale of colors the
indigo shade is preceded by violet and fol-
lowed by blue. Though generally blue, the
wings bear black tips scarcely noticeable.
The bird’s coat has an irridescence in sun-
light whereby he acquires green highlights.
The lustrous blue shines brightest on his
back.

In size the indigo singer ranks with the
sparrows, but not otherwise. Some of the
sparrows are over-bold and some are too
shy, but this wearer of feathers possesses
neither fault. I have known him through a
number of years without observing any un-
desirable qualities. His song is a gay rip-
pling hurly-burly that will certainly lift the
saddened person out of his sadness. He
gives out more cheer to the cubic inch of
his size than does any bird I have studied.

When the summer sun shines with its
greatest ardor in August, the birds fold up
their song shops and seek the deep shade.
They surrender to the intolerable condition
of extreme heat. Does the indigo fade away,
too? No, indeed, he does not choose to be
squelched. Through thejwoodland, silence
reigns with the exception of the spot where
he happens to be, and there‘the stillness is
energetically assailed by his staccato notes.
I usually ﬁnd him perched on the dead limb
of a beech half way up or even in its top.

Mrs. Indigo wears a leaf-brown costume
trimmed in the slate gray of the catbird.
Her modest attire blends so well with her
surroundings that she can sit calmly on her
nest and feel sure she will not be discovered
or harmed. It is the business of the male
bird to attract the eye of all possible ma-
rauders by his jaunty suit and bubbling mel-
ody, then to lead them craftily away from
the nest and his patient mate.

What sort of a home do they have? It is
a loosely-made tiny thing of twigs, grass,
bark, leaves and rootlets tied up with horse-
hair. A low bush or shrub seems to be the
favorite nesting-place. Three or four eggs
in a dainty shade of pale blue comprise the
clutch. When the babies come the parents
scurry about for Weed seed and insects; but
it is a hard job to keep the young ones sup-
plied with enough food to quiet them.

Every home on the island of Java has its
bird cages of turtle-doves or ring-tailed
pigeons. Every morning these cage-s are
hoisted upon tall poles and every night
brought down to the houses. If the family
goes on a journey the birds go, too.

Banks may fail, people may starve, earth
may run red with wars, but the song of
the robin—most cheerful sound in nature—
goes on forever. So long as the robins
return to us in the spring time, the world
is not wholly lost. -—The Open Road

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Page 141

The Road Runner

MARVIN L. BURTON

ing and entertaining of western birds.

One can not say that it is beautiful for
it is neither brilliant in coloring nor particu-
larly graceful in appearance. It is about
two feet long, the tail, being about half the
length. It varies in color from a bluish-
black to a greenish brown. The head is
crested and the feathers of the head and
neck are largely bristle tipped. The whole
plumage is coarse and harsh. The upper
parts of the body are conspicuously streaked
with brownish-white and the chest is brown-
ish-white streaked with black.

The road runner has been given the name
Geococcyx california-nus, which to the aver-
age person sounds as clownish as the antics
of the bird itself. To the residents of the
west it is just a road runner, chaparral
cock, ground cuckoo, or snake-killer, depend—
ing on the particular location.

The name “snake-killer” by which it is
sometimes known is derived from the fact
that it will attack and kill rattlesnakes.
It will circle and annoy a rattler and,
watching its chances, dart in and strike
with its strong beak. With remarkable
swiftness it will retreat to safety before
the snake has a chance to strike. A series
of these attacks soon injures the snake to
the degree to which the road runner can
easily complete the execution.

The road runner, of solitary habit, is seen
most often alone or in pairs; occasionally
three or four are seen together but never
more. The coloring blends with the sur-
roundings in which it lives and it is not
very noticeable. A person is amazed to see
one of these birds dart out of the brush or
hop out of a cactus and run swiftly along
the road or desert, stop when a short dis-
tance away and slowly elevate and lower
its long coarse tail. When in full ﬂight the
tail is carried out straight and the wings
are slightly spread. When wishing to come
to an abrupt stop, the road runner throws
its long tail up over its back to stop it—
self. It can change the course of ﬂight
very quickly and is fully capable of taking
care of itself. It can run very swiftly,
being easily able to keep ahead of a horse
and although reluctant to leave the ground,

THE road runner is the most interest-

it is capable of doing so. If close-1y pursued
it will ﬂy a short distance and most likely
light in a low bush or cactus.

While shy and solitary in its habits, the
road runner can easily be tamed and will
repay anyone for the trouble in amusement
at its queer antics. It will also keep the
premises free from lizards, centipedes,
mice, etc.

The mating call is a low-toned coo-coo
from which it takes the name of ground
cuckoo. When excited it makes a chattering
b-r-r-r sound by a rapid snapping of its
beak. It nests in low bushes or cacti. Its
nest is compactly built of sticks and lined
with feathers or other light materials. The
eggs are white or pale yellow and vary in
number from three to nine. In size they
are slightly larger than the eggs of the
pigeon, and are laid over a considerable
period of time. Often newly laid eggs and
young birds are. found in the same nest.

The diet of the road runner consists of
lizards, snails, centipedes, grasshoppers,
beetles, caterpillars and small snakes. Some
people claim that it also makes an occa-
sional meal of quail eggs but there is no
authentic proof of this.

Because of Birds

MAGDALEPNE G. CLARK

Because of one loved bird that raises safe,
In shelter of his cage, his carolings,

I’d harbor every feathered waif
That goes on wings.

Because 0 f birds with pinions spreading free,
I cherish more the one that, captive sings,
And reaches heaven tunefully
On ether wings.

Because of birds that soar on wings of song,
Or pinions widely ﬂung in flashing ﬂights,
I too, in spirit, wing along
To greater heights.

In making your will, please remember
the American Humane Education Society
of Boston, the ﬁrst of its kind in the world.

 

“THE MOST INTERESTING AND ENTERTAINING OF WESTERN BIRDS”

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

u U. S.Trade MarkRegistemd \

T ANGELL m 1868.AND FOR FORTY~ONE

The MaSsachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

The American Humane Education Society

The American Band of Mercy

I would not enter on my list of friends,
Though graced with polished manners and ﬁne sense,
Yet wanting sensibility, the man
Who needlessly sets foot upon a worm.
—COWPER

GLORY ‘ro
GOD,
PEACE on EARTH,

AND MERCY 70*
EVERY LIVING
CREATURE.

 

Published monthly by the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood, Massachusetts

Entered as.s_econd-class .matter, June 29, 1917, at the Post Ofﬁce at Norwood, Mass., under the Act of March 3, 1879
Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 3, 1917, authorized, July 13, 1919

Boston Ofﬁce, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

Vol. 66

Notice

Will you help in securing humane meth-
ods in the slaughter of our food animals?
Then please send for copies of a summary
of President Rowley’s address, entitled
“The Great Cruelty,” upon this subject,
delivered at the annual convention of the
American Humane Association recently at
Hartford, Connecticut. As many copies as
you can wisely distribute will be sent Free.
A postal card will bring them.

It may well be that there are nations and
men too proud to ﬁght. It would seem as if
there were several nations today too poor to
ﬁght

Though charitable organizations are not
included in the N.R.A., our Societies and
Hospitals are doing their best as consumers
to help in the national movement.

Despite the fall in the dollar and the
hard times which have cut down our funds,
the report of the Fez Fondouk for August
tells of most excellent work done. Read
the Superintendent’s notes at the close on
page 186.

President Roosevelt while governor of
New York, said in a talk at the New York
Auto Club luncheon, “I do not suppose there
is a type of human being more to be de-
spised than the hit-and-run driver. That
particular type of criminal deserves sym-
pathy neither from prosecutors nor juries.”

The following quotation from Ruskin’s in-
augural address, as Professor of Fine Arts
at Oxford, in one of our exchanges, comes
most timely at just this season of the year
when so many young and old are out with
their guns to kill:

“I will risk incurring your ridicule by
confessing one of my fondest dreams, that
I may succeed in making some of you Eng-
lish youths like better to look at a bird
than shoot it; and even desire to make wild

creatures tame, instead of tame creatures
wild.”

December, 1933

Vivisection in Prussia

EEKING information as to just what

was meant by the recent order issued
in Prussia with regard to the prohibition of
Vivisection, Captain E. G. Fairholme, chief
secretary‘of the Royal S. P. C. A., London,
wrote the German S. P. C. A. The follow-
ing is the reply received:

Deutscher Tierschutz—Verein zu Berlin,
Berlin W.9 Potsdamer Strasse 125
23rd August, 1933

To Royal Society for the Prevention
of Cruelty to Animals,
105, Jermyn Street, London, S.W.1.

DEAR MR. FAIRHOLME,

We thank you for your kind communica-
tion of 19th inst. and have to say that the
Report of the Decree of the President of
the Prussian Ministry regarding prohibi-
tion of vivse‘ction is in accordance with the
fact. The will is there, but probably limi-
tations and exceptions will be contained in
the regulations for carrying it out, which
will permit science to continue to make ex—
periments on the living animal within the
limitations framed.

Vivisection is, therefore, generally for-
bidden and only allowed in special and ex-
ceptional cases.

DEUTSCHER TIERSCHUT‘Z-VEREIN ZU BERLIN
(sd.) M. KULHWEIN
President

These seem to be the “limitations and ex-
ceptions.”

“As serious scientiﬁc research in the in-
terest of maintaining health and life can—
not dispense with scientiﬁc experiments
with animals, these experiments will not be
regarded as Vivisection if the following
rules are followedz—Scientiﬁc experiments
with animals may be made in scientiﬁcally
conducted institutions under the supervision
of their heads only if scientiﬁc considera-
tions promise deﬁnite success. They must
be omitted if the question at issue has al-
ready been cleared up. They are to be made
painless by general or local narcotics.”

Horses and mules received at public stock-
yards during the ﬁrst 8 months of 1933 were
221,142, for the ﬁrst 8 months of 1932, 171,-
557, a gain of approximately 29 per cent.

No. 12
The Great Cruelty

A Century of Progress ? ? ?

HE subject is not a pleasant one. Back

of it one sees the blood-red ﬂoors of a
thousand shambles, and hears the cries of
the frightened victims daily sacriﬁced for
human food. On and on, and ever on,
through nights and days and weeks and
months and years, travel that never-resting
procession of something like a hundred mil-
lion four-footed creatures wending their
weary way from ranch and farm to ship-
ping pens, thence to the great abattoirs
and the innumerable private butcheries to
meet death, with rare exceptions,
needlessly cruel and inhuman way.

A Century of Progress? Yes, in many a
ﬁeld of human activity, but who would ven-
ture to speak of a century of progress in
the way our food animals are killed? With
a rapidly growing population demanding
flesh to eat, the whole process of slaughter
has been speeded up as a gigantic business.
Not how humanely can we kill, rather how
quickly and how cheaply can we transfer
living ﬂesh and blood into food. That has
been the problem. The large beef animals
for the most part are jammed with prods
into a single pen to be stunned with the
blow of a poleaxe, the position of their
heads being such that it is often almost im-
possible to down them with a single blow.
Two, three blows, and sometimes more I
have seen struck upon one dodging victim’s
head before the suffering beast fell un-
conscious.

Practically all our swine, our sheep and
many of our calves, hanging by a hind leg,
meet death through the knife that is
plunged into their throats, consciousness
persisting often for at least some seconds,
just how many no one knows.

A Century of Progress? A century of
barbarism by a nation claiming to be civil-
ized, and this today when the world thinks
of civilization as measured by the attitude
of men and women toward all injustice and
the suffering either of man or beast. Where
shall we look for the real signs of our
greatness as a nation? Shall it be within
the wide enclosures of that enormous exhi-
bition in Chicago, or shall it be within those
blood-stained shambles, that, large and

ina

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

July, 1933

On Seeing a Swan
CARROLL VAN COURT

A thing of beauty, swimming by our boat,

So charming—the most graceful thing
afloat;

With courteous salaam, he begged a. boon;

He seemed to know that we would feed him
soon.

As we capitulated to his charm,
He seemed to know that we would do no
harm;

His breast was white as newly fallen snow;

His neck was undulating to and fro.

The beauty of that swan and fairy grace

Were perfect touches to complete the place.

He’d dart ahead, and then he’d ﬂoat and
glide,

Until our boat and he were side by side.

His rhythm in motion as he glided there,

Was reminiscent of a pretty air

From Strauss or Victor Herbert’s gifted
pen.

How different you are, thought I, from men.

The men I know, who plan and grind and
scheme;

Who never care to live, or love, or dream;

Who spend their years at what they call
their duty,

And never give the world a bit of beauty.

Sparrows are Welcome

PARROWS are not only permitted, but

welcomed in our neighborhood, writes
“C. C.” in The Christian Science Monitor. In
fact, through a series of rather deep-laid
plans, we have done what we could to attract
them. Every garden is planted with an ex-
tra measure of seed, in order that the spar-
rows may have their share. Every lawn
has its full quota of sparrows; at twilight
every tree fairly rings with their sleepy
twittering. Their concert at the close of
day often calls to mind the lines.

“I have a gladness come to me
When I see sparrows in a tree,
And hear their restless gossiping. . . .

We insist that the sparrows are the most
intelligent of birds. It is they who pass
along the good word whenever there is
fresh water in the bird-bath, or a new
scattering of crumbs or bits of suet. We
have found them friendly—more ready to
meet our advances half-way. After an
absence of several weeks, we returned to
ﬁnd the other birds apparently vanished——
but not so the sparrows! In a few days the
others returned—cardinals, mocking-birds,
ﬂickers and jays. We secretly suspected
that they came because the sparrows urged
the-m to do so. And we have never for-
gotten that the sparrows were there to
welcome us!

,’

More friends are needed to endow stalls
and new kennels in the Angell Memorial
Animal Hospital. Payments of thirty-ﬁve
dollars for a kennel or seventy-ﬁve dollars
for a stall will insure a suitable marker
inscribed with donor’s name. Terms of
permanent endowment of free stalls and
kennels will be given upon application to
the Massachusetts 5. P. C. A., 180 Long-

wood Avenue, Boston.

 

A TYPICAL SUMMER SCENE

 

The Bourgeois Woodpecker

JOHN P. DINNEY

NOISY and unmusical bird is the

woodpecker. Yet amongst our feath-
ered friends he stands out as one of the
most valuable, richly deserving our protec-
tion. His supe-rsensitive hearing enables
him to detect pernicious insects and larvae
within the bark of trees. With hammer-like
blows, delivered with intense energy and
persistency, he soon expose-s the parasites,
which are beyond artiﬁcial attack, and de-
stroys them. But for him trees without
number would undoubtedly be destroyed.

The woodpecker is the easiest of all birds
to recognize. His habits are peculiar and
distinctive. He clings to the side of a tree
or pole as if thrown there and stuck. True,
other birds—chickadees, crested titmice,
nuthatches, and brown creepers, to name a
few—climb up and down tree-trunks, but
these do it with a pleasing grace wholly
unlike the woodpecker’s clumsy and awk—
ward movements. And, as most of them are
much smaller than the woodpecker, the-re is
little danger of making mistakes in recog-
nition. The nuthatches are possibly the only
birds likely to be confused with him; but
their peculiar habit of traveling down a
tree-trunk head foremost distinguishes them
from the woodpecker, who always backs up
when moving downward.

The woodpecker is little migratory, being
equally at home in the north or south. He
nests in decayed limbs or stumps of trees
which are drilled vertically, then horizon-
tally. These shelters are usually chambered.
Of the many species of woodpecker all are
insectivorous with but few exceptions. The
red-head species peek at the ripest apples,
green corn, and other sweet and succulent
vegetables. His kinsman, the sapsucker, has
the damaging habit of drilling into young
trees and taking the life—giving sap. As a
class, however, the woodpeckers are not to
be condemned for the depredations of a few.

These heavy birds with straight, chisel-
like bills and sharp-pointed tail-feathers;
with their short legs and wide ﬂapping

wings, their unmusical but not unpleasant
voices, and their heavy, undulating busi-
ness-like ﬂight, are distinctly workmen. No
other bird has so much work to do the year
around, and none performs his task with
more energy or eﬂiciency. His is not the lot
of the comparatively idle, though pleasing,
songster. In the bird world he is a plain,
hard-working, useful citizen, with no time
for aristocratic struttings or fancy f‘rip—
peries.

Yet he is neither morose nor unsocial. We
see little of his humor or good nature ex-
cept in the spring, during the nesting sea-
son. Then all the laughter in him bubbles
up. He becomes upr‘oarious in his glee, and
the melody which he cannot vent in song
comes to the surface in the channels of his
trade, ﬁlling the woodlands with loud and
harmonious rappings. Truly, the wood-
pecker is a bird for us to love and protect.

Poor “ Economy”

Friends of the birds in New England
keenly regret the action of the Massachu—
setts Legislature which recently abolished
the Division of Ornithology. For the past
twelve years “Bulletins” have been issued
monthly from this Department which for
seven years was directed by the. late Ed-
ward Howe Forbush and for the past ﬁve
years by Dr. John B. May. Valuable data
was gathered from many interested and
experienced observers and compiled for the
public’s beneﬁt. This was one of the few
divisions of the state government that was
self-sustaining; could pay its own operat-
ing expenses and show an actual cash proﬁt
to the Commonwealth. “Birds of Massa-
chusetts and Other New England States,”
that illustrious work in three volumes by
Forbush, and other useful and educational
books have been in constant demand. They
have brought to the state a very consider-
able revenue. Here was a department
which the citizens of Massachusetts could
regard with justiﬁable pride. To terminate
its useful and proﬁtable! activities is indeed
a conspicuous example of poor, political
“economy.”

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 68
Donkeys
When to death’s fondouk the donkeys are
taken——

Donkeys of Barbary, Sicily, Spain——
If peradventure the Deity waken, .
He shall not easily slumber again.

Where in the sweet of thestraw they have

laid them
Broken and dead of their burdens and
sores,
He, for a change, shall remember He made
them——

One of the best of His numerous chores;

Order from someone a sigh of repentance——
Donkeys of Syria, Araby, Greece——
Over the fondouk distemper the sentence:
“For God’s own forsaken——the Stable of
Peace!”
JOHN GALSWORTHY

To Make Cruelty Unprofit-
able

HE following resolution is designed to

make it unproﬁtable for producers to
inﬂict cruelty, and should be welcomed by
all honest people in the trade, writes Ed—
mund T. MacMichael, honorary secretary,
Performing. and Captive Animals Defense
League and Jack London Club, London, to
the Christian Science Monitor.

Mr. MacMichael states that the resolu-
tion has been passed by many organizations
in England with a total membership of over
1,000,000 people.

That no certiﬁcate be granted by the
[British] Board of Film Censors, or by
any other body empowered to censor
ﬁlms in this country in respect of any
ﬁlm depicting one or more animals,
unless such ﬁlm be accompanied by a
written declaration from the producers
that no cruelty, brutality, or restraint
amounting to cruelty has been inﬂicted
during its production in order to obtain
the results portrayed; and that pro-
ducers be warned that the issuing of
any such declaration which may subse-
quently be proved to have been unjusti-
ﬁed will prejudice the granting of a
certiﬁcate in respect of any ﬁlm depict-
ing one or more animals submitted by
the same producers.

In Captivity

There is not so much call for zoos and
aviaries nowadays since jazz plays, auto
rides and the radio distract the public at-
tention so much. It is one of the changes
of the times that come along unplanned
and unheralded. Might as well release the
denizens of city parks and let them return
to the call of the wild.

—Pueblo (Col.) Indicator

This, however, would be quite impractic-

able unless they were taken back to their
native haunts.

 

Join the Jack London Club

The vicious and cruel exploitation of

animals can be boycotted from the public
stage.

Send your name for enrolment to Our
Dumb Animals.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

May, 1933

Father Coyote Takes Charge

IVY SCOTT ROGERS

ROM behind the screen of grass and
F bushes concealing his den, Father Coy—

ote peered long and anxiously. Life is
ever a serious matter to those who live in the
wild, and to the coyote it was more than
usually serious, for he had a motherless
cub to feed and protect. Fate had dealt

hard with him. Only six weeks previously

 

COYOTE ONE MONTH OLD

he had been the proud father of ﬁve jolly
cubs and the devoted husband of the gentle
“Mishka.” Then had come that awful dawn
when he had returned to ﬁnd four cubs miss-
ing, the ﬁfth bruised and terriﬁed, and
Mishka gone he knew not whither. ‘ '
With a passionate tenderness he had lifted

the little bruised one and carried him oﬂ to '

this den in the hillside. The den he had made
comfortable with dried grasses, and there
he had found food for the cub, and when
the tawny—gray bundle had eaten his ﬁll,
Father Coyote drew him within the shelter
of his own warm body and soothed him to
sleep.

That was a couple of weeks ago. Time
was passing: the cub was growing rapidly,
and save for a small scar on his neck, he
was none the worse for his encounter with
the unknown enemy who had carried off his
mother, his brothers and his sisters. Father
Coyote guarded him ﬁercely, and only when
the world was wrapped in darkness and si—
lence did he steal out to ﬁnd food for himself
and his small son. Fortunately he had a
w1de range of diet—rabbits, mice, snakes,
frogs, squirrels, eggs, any of these were
eagerly sought.

At last the night came when the small son
was allowed to accompany his father on a
hunting expedition. The stars twinkled
gaily far above his wondering head, a soft
w1nd sobbed through the scrub, and the
moon steeped the drowsy earth in mystic
s11very light. Father Coyote led his son to
the old quarry where the rabbits played and
the mice squeaked shrilly as they reveled in
the moonbeams. The cub’s heart pounded

with excitement. He would certainly have
got into mischief if he had been alone, for
he was full of curiosity, longing to ﬁnd out
the cause of each ﬂickering shadow, each
scufﬂe, each moving form. A whirring of
wings drove him scuttling into a bush, and
his father voiced his approval of his son’s
ready wits by a long-drawn call directed at
the star—strewn heavens.

After that ﬁrst night the cub simply lived
for the coming of dusk. Not that the coy-
otes conﬁne their hunting to the hours of
darkness. Nature has given them tawny
fur to harmonize with the tawny world in
which they move, but Father Coyote was
still apprehensive for the safety of his son,
still feeling the effects of that disaster which
had befallen his home and family in a dawn-
dusk. Till the cub was strong enough and
old enough to fend for himself, Father Coy-
ote was taking no unnecessary risks. And
it was well for that cub that he had such a
vigilant father. As he grew more conﬁdent
in his own strength and ability, the young-
ster was always trying to elude his father’s
eye, always longing to go off on some ex-
pedition on his own just to prove what a
big fellow he was getting to be. But always
the graceful form of his father shadowed
him, and thus the cub was saved from the
very front paws of a hungry weasel; from
the unwelcome attentions of a snake eyeing
him with a cold, lidless stare from under
a rock; and from the searching talons of an
eagle thirsting for his blood.

There came a night in autumn, wrapped
in soft mists and silvery light, when Father
Coyote and his son left their earthen home
in the hillside and made their way south.
They were hungry, they had ranged the
region round about the den with great in-
tensity; it was time to seek another hunting-
ground before the time came for the father
and son to part.

As he entered a clump of low-growing
scrub, Father Coyote suddenly became
aware of a slim form shadowing his own.
As a shaft of moonlight pierced the twisted
stems, it lighted up a coyote in whose bright
eyes there shone a tender gleam. The
stranger who had shadowed Father Coyote
was none other than Mishka, Mishka across
whose shoulder a great scar showed where
she had been shot and crippled on that un-
happy night of her disappearance. She had
lain near to death for many days, but at
length she had won through, and after limp-
ing painfully for awhile, she had got on
the trail of her mate and their small son.

It was an exuberant young coyote who
saluted his long-lost mother there in the
mist-laden, moonlit scrub. As he licked
her nose and pressed close against her, the
anguish and pain of the early weeks faded
from Father Coyote’s mind. Mishka was
back at his side, their son was safe: with a
long—drawn cry that echoed eerily through
the night he turned towards the south
woods, and side by side the three coyotes
vanished into the mists.

The balancing apparatus of the inner ear
of the waltzing mouse is imperfect, which

causes the animal to run rapidly in small
circles.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

Juna 1933

Let’s Go to the Horse Show

ELLEN H. JONES

HE outdoor horse show season is now
1n full swing and a few days ago Mr.

and Mrs. Average Citizen donned their best

bibs and tuckers and set out for an exhibi-
tion in their town which the local news-
papers had assured them was being staged
by “horse lovers.”

Mrs. Citizen nearly lost her mind over
the trappy little hackney ponies and their
marvelous “knee” and hock action. She
didn’t get a look at the big thick slab of
lead in each little foot, concealed by a
leather pad nailed under the shoe. She was
right in one particular though, the “knee”
action, because weighted horses certainly
do work from the knee. At that she wasn’t
more uninformed than the judge of the
class who “put up” one of the little weighted
creatures with poor shoulder action, not
realizing that a well-bred hackney will na-
turally use its legs high, wide and handsome
without any shoes at all and that, given the
right shoulder action, the knees take care
of themselves.

Mrs. Citizen also thought the funny little
docked tails “cute,” but then she’d never
seen these little ponies when their useful—
ness to exploit the vanity of certain per-
sons was over and as they were going
“down the ladder,” “under the hammer”
from one sales stable to another, standing
in hot stalls, unsheeted, being actually eaten
alive by ﬂies and perhaps only a few hairs
left in their stumps of tails.

Mr. Citizen enjoyed the saddle horses,
especially the ﬁve-gaited ones. “That shows
breeding, all right,” he observed import-
antly, “look at the grand way their tails
stand out.” He didn’t, of course, compre-
hend the tail-setting operation, nor did he
know that these “cut” horses had stood for
hours before their class with their tails
trussed up in those devices of the devil
known as “tail sets,” without which ﬁnal
little attention they would have been sorry
sights in the show ring. Nor did he realize
that much of their seeming energy in bold-
ing out their tails was induced by the in-
troduction of capsicum, ginger, or some
other stinging substance into the anus
just before they entered the ring. “Horse
lovers” are invariably well informed con—
cerning these little niceties.

And when that big, powerful‘ chestnut
won the three—gaited class the Citizens didn’t
know that he was a notorious “puller” and
that his excellent ring manners were di-
rectly traceable to a “lip strap”; in other
words, a piece of stout twine twisted about
his tender gums and tongue in such a way
as to cause downright agony if he didn’t
“do his stuff.” Nor did they know that his
mouth had been originally ruined by being
manhandle-d.

Here come the jumpers, “Oh, the dear
things, how they love to jump!” Oh, yeah!
“Look at the nervous little bay horse, going
as though the devil were after it!” Yea,
verily. Had the Citizens been out in the
paddock just before the class they would
have seen the little bay being railed. They
would have seen a man jumping her over a
four-foot fence with two other men holding
a heavy, square-cut, four-inch rail across
and in front of the jump, one man on each
end. As the litle mare cleared the jump
nicely these men would bang this “pole”

OUR DUMB

 

ANIMALS

FEEDING A CARLOAD OF CALVES AT SPRINGFIELD, MASS.

 

 

into her knees. Most persons know how
painful is just a slight blow on the knee.
Then some persons wonder why so many
hunters and jumpers “stand over,” or have
“sprung” knees.

“Look at the little black horse; well, he is
a hot cup 0’ tea. What’s he so mad about—
look at his ears, held flat back.” Listen,
lady, you’d probably get a bit “het up”
under treatment such as he just got out
behind the barn. The well-known trainer
riding him holds that “you’ve got to get
them honked up before taking them in to
jump or they might lay down with you.”
Just before the class said trainer gave the
little horse a thorough beating with a club
made out of a broom handle. Do you notice
the way he twists his body and kicks out,
both sides, after he clears the jump? The
“railing” he got earlier in the day is fresh
in his mind. He caught it in the hind legs
and he’s still trying to get away from it.

“Oh, gracious here comes our gallant Na-
tional Guard! Look at those horses jump,
going like mad! Oh dear, that boy almost
fell off.” Yes, and too bad he didn’t. As
horsemen the National Guardsmen would
make good locomotive engineers. Occasion-
ally one sees an ofﬁcer with decent hands
and seat. Of course the horses jump. They
just had a good—railing with heavy one-inch
iron pipe!

Speaking of iron pipe, the writer, who is
a “pain in the neck” to the “horse love-rs,”
objected to the use of the iron pipe at a
horse show the other day, whereupon the
valiant soldiers de-sisted whacking their
horses until she should go away, but she
didn’t go away until she had conﬁscated
the pipe, got enough of it through the win-
dows of her car to balance the thing and
sent it to her home where it reposes; Ex-
hibit A, when the time comes. The “Army”
certainly was excited, the lady was sum-
moned by megaphone and directed to return
the pipe whereupon she told the megaphone
man to tell the captain to try and get it.

A lovely time was had by all.

In Holland, which is a great agricultural
country, everything is so spick-and-span
that some-times the windows of stables where
the cattle are kept are hung with lace
curtains.

A mole eats from three to four times its
own weight of insects and worms in twenty—
four hours, and if it is kept without food
for twelve hours it dies of starvation.

The skunk and porcupine have a perfect
means of defense and do not need the wit
and cunning of other animals.

A Shameful Traffic

HE trafﬁc in little calves, many of

them newly born, still goes on all over
our land. New York State continues to
ship into Massachusetts the largest num-
ber of these weak, starving victims. By
reason of interstate law we cannot stop
such calves as are wholly unﬁt for ship-
ment because of their age coming into the
state. All that is left us is to watch the
trains and offer such protection to the
calves as is possible. The above picture
shows our ofﬁcer at Springﬁeld feeding,
with the assistance of railroad employees,
a carload of calves he discovered. In this
car were 150 calves, 14 were dead when he
opened the car and four he had to put to
sleep so near were they to death. When
the car reached Boston there were 132, with
one that had died since leaving Springﬁeld.
The time limit had not been exceeded, the
car was not crowded beyond legal limits,
and had been properly bedded. As long as
the public will keep buying the meat of
these little bob—veal calves so long this
shameful trafﬁc in them will continue. It’s
another of the tragic features of the whole
slaughter-house problem. Those of us who
are meat eaters keep the business gomg.

A Mystery

In the book entitled “Animal War
Heroes,” referred to on the ﬁrst page,
there is told the story, vouched for by his
owner, of a dog which found his way from
England to his owner in France who was
with the 1st North Staffordshires, near
Armentiers. Who can explain the story?
Here it is:

Brown, then Adjutant’s servant, was
returning to his quarters on horseback
when a friend in his battalion called out
to him: “I’ve got your dog here, Jimmy.”

Brown took it as a joke, though in his
opinion a very poor one. However, he dis-
mounted—and there was “Prince” himself,
leaping up and contorting his body in a
frenzy of joy, uttering whines and yelps
and generally displaying the most ecstatlc
excitement.

The annual convention of the American
Humane Association will be held in Hart-
ford, Conn., October 10 to 12, 1933. This
is the ﬁrst time this meeting has come to
New England since 1917. The Connecticut
Humane Society, one of the most active of
its kind, will be the host. Hartford is within
easy driving distance for a very populous
area.

 

 




 

 

Feb. 1983

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Page 21

Toads—the Matchless Sentinels of Garden and Field

0 most of us the toad is an ugly, un-

interesting creature. We can’t eat

him, he is worthless for bass bait, and
his hide has no commercial value. Further-
more he is supposed to give us warts if we
pick him up. However, we cannot see that
he does any particular harm as he hops con-
tentedly about our yards and gardens. He
does not eat our fruit nor destroy any of
our growing crops. So we tolerate the toad
and, excepting when one falls into our well
or gets himself mixed up among the whirl-
ing blades of our lawn mower, we never
give him a second thought.

However, consider the toad, you nature
enthusiasts and bird lovers. Right in your
back yard you have one of the most inter-
esting, amusing, and economically bene-
ﬁcial creatures that you can hope to ﬁnd in
seven days’ travel; one that will not ﬂy
away when you approach him. An insect
destroyer par-excellence that you can lei—
surely study without the necessity of buying
a pair of ﬁeld glasses.

The worst thing that we can say about
the toad is that his appearance is certainly
against him. The rough warty skin is any-
thing but attractive. In habits he may ap-
pear stupid and dull, but he has a duty to
perform, and he performs it nobly.

Late in the afternoon, as the shadows are
lengthening in garden and orchard, the toad

 

SPADEFOOT TOAD

comes forth from his retreat beneath some
stone or board walk and starts out-on his
nightly police duty. To a toad anything
that moves and is not too big to swallow
is acceptable food. Flies, worms, slugs,
beetles, grasshoppers, in fact all of the
commonly accepted enemies of the agricul-
turist are on his bill of fare.

All night long he hops up and down be-
tween the rows of growing things and woe
betide the cut-worm or potato beetle that
moves within range of his vision.

He does not draw the line at insects as
large and formidable as J une-bugs and hairy
caterpillars, and has even been observed to
swallow a wasp with no apparent discom-
fort.

The U. S. Biological Survey has examined
the stomach contents of hundreds of toads
and has discovered that 88% of their food
consists of injurious insects. To cite a few
individual examples, one stomach contained
55 army worms, another contained 65 larvae
of the gypsy moth, while a third contained

PERCY A. MORRIS

 

COMMON TOAD
Showing the spotted ventral surface

37 full-grown tent caterpillars. It was
found that during the early summer months,
16% of their food consisted of cut-worms,
the arch enemy of the cabbage and tomato
grower. (1) .

It is extremely unlikely that any of our
insectivorous birds could match this record,
and, remember, the toad does not steal our
cherries.

It is highly educational as well as amus-
ing to watch a toad out hunting. Let us
say he comes across a rotting pear on which
the ants and ﬂies are holding high carnival.
Our toad stops hopping a few feet away
and slowly crawls up to within a few inches.
Here he sits, cocking his head ﬁrst one way
and then another, until he singles out a
nearby ﬂy. His mouth opens and shuts and
the ﬂy disappears. He repeats the opera-
tion and another ﬂy is gone. It takes very
close observation and unusual eyesight to
see what is taking place.

The toad’s tongue is not fastened at the
back but is attached by its tip to the front
part of the lower jaw. When he opens his
mouth the tongue is hurled out for its entire
length, not unlike a jack—in-the-box, and
the unfortunate ﬂy is held a prisoner by
the sticky secretion with which it is covered.
The tongue pops back instantly, carrying
the ﬂy to its proper destination, and our
toad looks around for the next victim. We
are surprised to ﬁnd such lightning-like
movement associated with the slow lethargic
toad.

In late April or early May, after their
winter’s hibernation, the toads desert our
ﬁelds and gardens and gather in large num—
bers in the nearby ponds and marshes. Here
they paddle about for a few weeks, adding
their musical trill to the other welcome
sounds of spring. The males only do the
singing, and during the duration of the
trill, their throats swell to alarming pro-
portions.

The eggs differ from those of frogs by
being in strings rather than in masses.

(1) Dickerson, M. C.; The Frog Book. p. 84

Tiny tadpoles replace the eggs in a few
days, and by mid-July the margins of ponds
will be found to be alive with toadlets, each
one less than half an inch long, black, and
with tiny thread-like legs that seem hardly
capable of supporting it.

For the ﬁrst few weeks of their land life,
they seem to miss the moisture that their
bodies have been accustomed to and move
about very little, excepting when the grass
is dewy. But let a sudden shower come up,
and a little» toad will suddenly appear
from under every stone and chip and start
hopping happily about among the splashing
rain drops. This is the “shower of toads”
of our grandfathers.

There are three species of toad found in
southern New England, the Spadefoot, Com-
mon, and Fowler’s toad.

The Spadefoot toad (Scaphiopus hol-
brookii) will not often be seen, partly due
to its rarity, and partly owing to its bur-
rowing habits. It gets its name from the
horny growth on the inside of its hind feet,
with which it can dig quite rapidly back-
wards, backing into the hole as it is dug.
It leaves its burrow only at night and, aside
from being occasionally turned out by the
plow, is seldom noticed.

The Spadefoot is slightly smaller than
the common toad, of a yellowish ashy col-
or with usually a curving yellowish band

 

FOWLER’S TOAD

beginning in back of each eye and extend-
ing down the back to merge at his posterior
extremity. The skin is smoother, or per-
haps we should say less warty than with
other toads.

The common toad (Bufo americomus) and
Fowler’s toad (Bufo fowleri) are easily
confused. In general Fowler’s toad is some-
what larger and lighter colored. It is usu-
ally more spotted and striped and is lacking
the larger warts characteristic of the com-
mon toad. Its under side is never spotted,
while the under side of the common toad is.

Fowler’s toad comes from hibernation
later in the spring than the common toad
and will be found breeding some two or
three weeks after the other kind has started
its courtship.

Toads are capable of expelling a milky
ﬂuid, which is secreted by glands in the
skin, especially the two large swellings be-
hind the eyes (parotoid glands). This he
does only when in great pain as when bit-
ten, or seized by the talons of some bird of

 




 

 

 

 

 

July, 1933

-<——-.—_

mom tk

55s

 

Cricket Play

SOLVEIG PAULSON

As I sat out on the grass one day,
I saw two crickets at their play.

I sat so still they did not fear,
They hardly knew that I was near.

They hopped about and jumped and pranced,
They turned hand—springs and ran and danced,
They laughed a funny cricket way

And chased each other through the hay.

They played leap-frog and hop—scotch, too,
Just like the boys and girls all do,

Then, when. the western sky grew red,
Their mother called them home to bed.

Peter Penguin Builds His Home
ESTHER DALZIEL HOOEY

ETER PENGUIN, that funny bird that walks somewhat
like a person, and whose tiny wings look as if they never
had a chance to grow, was building his home. It was not much
trouble to build, for Peter and his wife do not bother much
about a nest. A few sticks and stones and grass or seaweed
gathered together is all they want. But they want some fur-
niture and, strange as it may seem, the furniture consists of
sticks and stones, with some nice grass or seaweed. So the
furniture is about the same as the stuff the home is made of.
They are very fond of smooth round stones also for furnishing
their home and will carry these stones a long distance, so you
see they do not mind hard work.

After the home is furnished, Mrs. Penguin lays one egg,
and when the baby penguin is hatched both father and moth-er
take turns in caring for it. Indeed Mrs. Peter nurses and
looks after Baby Penguin until it is a year old.

The tiny wings of the penguins are of no use whatever for
ﬂying, but they make splendid paddles. And as the penguins
like to spend most of their time in the water they do not mind
being unable to ﬂy. But birds that cannot fly are pretty help-
less in times of danger, so they ﬁnd safety in living close to-
gether. In some places, during the hatching season, hundreds
of these birds have their homes close tog-ether.

A man who was studying birds visited a penguin rookery
and found one nest or home furnished with a lot of smooth
stones, enough to ﬁll half a wheelbarrow. No doubt these
stones had to be carried a long way in the birds’ mouths
which is not an easy way to carry a heavy weight.

Penguins do not moult like other birds. Their little ﬂipper-
like wings have no quills, and when they cast off their short

scale-like feathers, they do so somewhat as a snake casts
off his skin.

“To be able to appreciate the best in life is an ideal that
every youth should have. There are all sorts of things in
life, some good, some bad, and some neither yery g‘ood nor
very bad. Hosts of young people miss the best things, be-
cause they have ﬁxed their attention on lesser things. So
the ﬁnest things in life they never see. The youth who has
learned to look for the best in music, in art, in literature,
in his associates, and in himself, will get the most out of life.”

 

‘?
\
\\
=5
0..
m

’I/f
I
s‘ v}
I
\\
\

I
5!
' /
m
\\\

‘
\é
\~
I III
”/4
«g
\x

a}
n
/
I l’
‘3
3s

:1-
s“ '1
‘ I
I [as
\\\
\\

l

"i
/ r
/

’In

 

 

AUSTRALIA’S LIVE NATIVE TEDDY—BEAR,
THE KOALA
This boy’s pet is carrying her cub “pick-a-back,” which is the
baby’s method of transportation for some time. The koalas are
also called wombats and sloths.

 

“Skippy” Squirrel
ET H EL H A ND

NE day in late summer a tiny squirrel was discovered

slowly and forlornly crossing the public highway. Stopping
frequently and holding up one small front foot, he seemed a
bit bewildered, perhaps recently orphaned or lost from his
mother. Only Providence assisted by the lady beside the road,
saved him from annihilation beneath the wheels of some
speeding automobile.

This was such a wee baby squirrel that he had not yet
learned to eat, so had to be fed warm milk from a medicine
dropper. And how he would grasp his “bottle” with both
“hands” and drain every last drop of milk! Soon, however,
“Skippy” grew larger and stronger. He dash-ed from place
to place, jumped from one person to another so quickly that
the eye could scarcely follow his movements. When tired of
play he might be found hidden away, sleeping in some conven—
ient coat pocket. Then, he learned to climb trees, to jump
from limb to limb and from tree to tree.

Now Skippy is a grown squirrel, still full of playful tricks.
He climbs and jumps everywhere, turns somersaults in the
'air, hangs upside down from bush-es and twigs and does all
sorts of gymnastics. And how that squirrel does love to bury
nuts all around the place, then, later, dig them up again! Seated
in some safe and, usually, lofty spot, he gnaws his nuts and eats,
with an eye cocked for danger.

Though Skippy is still tame and at ease in the presence of
humans, he will let only one person touch him—his mistress,
who raised him. She may handle him, roll him on his back,
toss him around as she pleases, but no one else! Skippy is
most certainly a “one woman” squirrel!

 




 

 

 

 

Page 42

sleep 151, investigated 157 complaints, in-
spected 3,255 animals and traveled 10,805
miles.

The Small Animal Shelter has received
1,562 small animals, involving 940 ambu-
lance calls. The gift from the Boston Park
Department of two beautiful deer has fur-
nished an additional attraction to the Farm
whose visitors during the year have num-
bered many hundreds, among them a multi-
tude Of children to Whom the Farm has
been a visible example of the claims of
animal life for just and kind treatment.
This educational value of the place with
its beautiful hillside cemetery for small
animals it is hard to overestimate.

Legislation

The Society has introduced in the State
Legislature, January 12, 1933, a bill tO
prohibit the exploitation of captive animals
at roadside stands and at such other places
as exhibit them purely for soliciting money.
It has also co-Operated in preparing a bill
to stop ultimately the setting up Of horses’
tails and the showing of docked horses and
horses with tails set up. Copies of both
these bills may be found on page 24 of the
February issue of Our Dumb Animals.

The Women’s Auxiliary

‘ This faithful group of-women has gener—
ously contributed from the monies raised

by them to the further equipment Of the ,

Hospital and the Society’s work in general.
Nearly two-thirds Of the cost of our new
X-ray machine was borne by them. Out
of their work has grown the Winchester
Women’s Auxiliary, whose activities we
greatly appreciate, and steps are being
taken to form one in Springﬁeld where
several deeply interested women made pos—
sible for our Springﬁeld Hospital a high-
grade modern X-ray machine similar to the
one we have at our Hospital here.

Finances

That we have suffered, with other chari-
table societies, from the difﬁcult ﬁnancial
period Of the recent years goes without
saying. Still we are profoundly grateful
that, owing to the wisdom with which our
trustees have handled our invested funds
and by reason of the continued generous
contributions Of our friends, though in re-
duced amounts, we have not been forced
to curtail our work but have even, through
strictest economy by every possible means,
been able to increase it in a number of
directions.

It is from now on that we shall feel most
seriously the result of the ﬁnancial disasters
of the past three years. Generous bequests
that would have come to us have had to be
cut out of wills because of loss in securities.
We have already been informed that be-
quests to us as residuary legatees in a num-
ber of wills must be ignored by us as noth—
ing was left as residuary. In other cases
we have been notiﬁed by executors that be-
quests of even large amounts had shrunk
to almost nothing at the time of the probat-
ing of the will.

The treasurer reports receipts for cur-
rent expenses for the year' $267,849.12;
expenditures, including depreciation and
replacement, $279,254.36. We had hoped
to make a beginning with a small animal

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

shelter and hospital, or clinic, at Hyannis
on the Cape, but that must be deferred un—
til better times warrant the expenditure of
the necessary money. Meanwhile many
cases come to our Hospital here in Boston
from the Cape through the medium Of our
agent there.

We were never more grateful to our
friends than now for their gifts and their
good will. Letters have come frequently ex-
pressing sincerest gratitude for the work
we are doing and such letters are deeply
appreciated.

SOME PROSECUTIONS MADE BY
OFFICERS OF MASS. S. P. C. A.
DURING THE YEAR

For knowingly and wilfully subjecting
dogs to unnecessary cruelty and suffering,
four hit-and-run drivers Of automobiles were
severally convicted and ﬁned $50, $50, $15
and $15.

Three defendants were found guilty of
setting illegal traps and of violating the
anti-steel-trap law. Fines aggregating $110
were imposed. Another defendant, who
subjected a dog to cruelty and suffering
by allowing him to drag trap, chain and
stake for eight hours before release, was
ﬁned $10.

For cruelly cropping the ears and tail of
a dog, offender was sentenced to House of
Correction for one month; another, for
cruelly mutilating a cat by cutting Off its
tail, was ﬁned $25.

Two prosecutions for the cruel abandon-
ment Of cats resulted in ﬁnes of $20 each;
the case of cruel abandonment Of a dog
was placed on ﬁle.

More than sixty prosecutions for cruelty
to horses were made which involved prin-
cipally the failure of providing proper food
and shelter, working when unﬁt for labor
by reason Of lameness, galled shoulders and
backs, overdriving and beating, and selling
when unﬁt for service. Fines ranging from
$10 tO $50 were imposed.

For subjecting calves to cruelty and suf-
fering by overcrowding them in truck, ﬁne
$10; cruelly overcrowding and transport-
ing ten head of cattle in motor truck,
owner ﬁned $25, operator $5; overcrowd-
ing fowl in crate, ﬁne $15.

The prosecuting Ofﬁcers Of the Society
are advised and instructed that it is al-
ways better, when possible, to convert men
from cruelty than to convict them in courts,
and that the test Of a Society’s usefulness
is not the number Of its prosecutions, but
the number of acts of cruelty it is able to
prevent.

L. WILLARD WALKER, Chief Oﬂicer

Worthy of Record

Shepherd Dog Drags Spaniel to Safety

One Of the many victims of the heartless
and reckless hit-and—run drivers of motor
cars was “Don,” who was hurried to the
Angell Animal Hospital recently from his
home in Cohasset. His principal injury was
a fractured fore leg. Though wary of autos,
he was playing near the danger line with
his big friend “Peter,” a German shepherd
who lives a few blocks away. Don suddenly
ventured too far and was hit by a speeding
car. After he was run over and dazed it
was Peter who seized hold of him and
dragged his limp body out Of harm’s way to
safety and then summoned human help.

Don made a rapid recovery and his quick—
witted protector has not lacked the praise
that is his due.

Mar. 1933

MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.

Prosecuting Ofﬁcers in Boston

Telephone (Complaints, Ambulances) Regent 6100

L. WILLARD WALKER, Chief Oﬂicer

HARRY L. ALLEN DAVID A. BOLTON
HARVEY R. FULLER HOWARD WILLAND
WALTER B. POPE

County Prosecuting Ofﬁcers

HERMAN N. DEAN, Boston,

Middlesex, Norfolk and Plymouth-
FRED T. VICKERS, Boston Eastern Essex
WILLIAM W. HASWELL, Methuen, Western Essex
THEODORE W. PEARSON, Springﬁeld,

Hampden, Hampshire and Franklin

ROBERT L. DYSON, Worcester, Worcester
WINFIELD E. DUNHAM, New Bedford, Bristol
HAROLD G. ANDREWS, Hyannis,

Barnstable, Dukes and Nantucket
EDWIN D. MOODY, Pittsﬁeld, Berkshire

Rest Farm for Horses and Small Animal Shelter,
Methuen

W. W. HASWELL, Superintendent

Women’s Auxiliary of the Mass. S. P. C. A., 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston—MRS. EDITH WASHBURN
CLARKE, Pres.; MRS. ARTHUR W. HURLBURT, First
Vice-Pres.; MRS. WM. J. MCDONALD, Second Vice-
Pres.; MRS. A. J. FURBUSH, Treas.; MISS HELEN W.
POTTER, Rec. Sec.; MRS. JOHN A. DYKEMAN, Cor.
Sec.; MRS. A. P. FISHER, Chair. Work Committee.

 

Angell Memorial Animal Hospital l
and
Dispensary for Animals

184 Longwood Avenue Telephone, Regent 6100 !

Veterinarians

l
F. DAILEY, v.M.D., Chief F
. H. SCHNEIDER, v.M.D., Asst. Chief 1‘
. F. SCHROEDER, D.V.M. l
. M. EVANS, D.V.S. i
B. SCHNELLE, v.M.D. ;
G. HALL, D.V.M. g
HARRY L. ALLEN, Superintendent l
l

l

I

I

I

gmw;

 

 

gm

Springﬁeld Branch

53-57 Bliss Street, Springﬁeld, Mass.

THEODORE W. PEARSON, General Manager
A. R. EVANS, v.M.D., Veterinarian

WM

Two Bands Of Mercy have been organized
in Soﬁa, Bulgaria, by Miss Leona Vasileva
of the American College, who writes: “If
America needs humane education for her
children, how much more we out here in
the Balkans need it! I hope it will soften
the instinct to strike the weak. Our stu-
dents have taken it so much to heart, and
each one will try tO do some act of kindness
and report at the ﬁrst meeting.”~

 

“DON,” A HIT—AND-RUN VICTIM

 




 

Oct. 1933
The Kindness Cult

ROM an article by Mrs. E. C. Dow,
president of International Humane
League, we quote these selections:

The toy pistol is the favorite plaything.
The street play is followed by a further edu-
cation in crime by the movies. Motion pic-
tures idealize—daily newspapers build up
and play up the gangster. It is the aim of
our schools to turn out good citizens. The
most compelling force in achieving that
aim is the teaching of kindness and justice
to all living things—to our fellow—men and
to animals.

Crime, which has its foundation in cru-
elty, is a disregard of the rights and happi-
ness of others. The most cruel and danger-
ous criminals are frequently those of
superior education, if the mind only is edu-
cated, and not the heart. Knowledge gives
power, for good or ill. The inculcation of
kindness in the everyday life ennobles and
raises the standard of morals. It prevents
criminal tendencies arising in the minds of
youth. Its practice is a sign of development
to the highest reaches of intelligence and
sympathy.

Why do we have desperate criminals, and
what is the remedy? The criminals, mur—
derers and cut-throats of tomorrow are
moulded from the youth of today. One of
the acid tests of human ﬁtness is wrought
out in our habits of dealing with living
creatures, human and sub-human. Where-
kindness dominates, wars cannot originate,
and prisons are empty. Kindness is like a
garden plant. It grows by cultivation.
Cruelty is like a weed which grows apace,
stiﬂing every worthy impulse.

THE SICK MONKEY
From a painting by Sir Edwin Landseer

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Page 155

Character Building Through Humane
Education

A radio address by Principal GLENN ROBINSON, Mary Snow School, Bangor, Me.

HERE are those who say that the

school should stick to the three R’s.

That character training, manners and
morals and mental health, are not the func-
tion of the public schools. We who are con-
nected with education, certainly believe that
the three R’s should be stressed, but along
with them and equally important—yes, more
important—should stand the teaching of
physical, mental, and moral health—the
moulding of character.

Many children come from homes where
little attention is given to the ﬁner things
of life. Many never see the inside of a
church or Sunday-school. Only a compara-
tively few can be Boy Scouts or Girl Scouts,
so it falls upon the school to do what it can
to make life rich and full for the child,—to
give him practice as well as theory in well
doing.

Humane education is one of the best
means of accomplishing this end. It does
it through indirect teaching, through sug-
gestion, through example, through co-
operative effort,——“Precept upon precept,
line upon line, here a little, and there a
little.”

The late Burt Jay Tice, one time super-
intendent of schools in Massachusetts, gives
the following .objectives of humane educa-
tion:

1. Practical knowledge about the care
of pets, domestic animals, and birds, and
their value to man.

2. The prevention of
suffering to animals.

3. Training in thought-
fulness, sympathy and
mercy, for the prevention
of all cruelty towards
either man or beast.

The child learns about
animals as the helpers of
man—often his most trust-
ed friends and companions.
He learns that they have
a right to live and to be
protected from all unnec-
essary suffering. Through
care of pets, or feeding
birds in winter, he soon
acquires a sense of respon-
sibility for their welfare.
Through exchanging eX-
periences with his com-
panions, or listening dur-
ing the Band of Mercy
meetings, he has right at-
titudes and high ideals of
kindness brought to his at-
tention, again and again,
and before long the habit
of kindness becomes a part
of his behavior pattern.

Humane education
arouses in the child an in-
terest in the great out-of-
doors, and the creatures
that live there. No child
with a consuming desire

. to study the birds, ﬂowers
and little woods’ creatures,
or to collect aquatic life
for his aquarium will

spend much time with the corner gang. He
will be too busy with something worth while.
Aside from this wholesome effect. on the
child’s character, the contact with the out-
of—doors is conducive to the physical well
being of the child.

Humane education gives practice as well
as theory in doing kind deeds. The chil—
dren vie with each other in presenting ideas
for animals’ comfort, to the class. The per-
formance of kindly deeds, the protection of
the weak and helpless, affects the child like
a stimulant, and he is moved to do other
deeds of kindness.

I have been surprised to see children,
whose chief delight before they belonged to
the Band of Mercy was to throw rocks at
squirrels and birds and to tease dogs and
cats, now come with suggestions for the
care and protection of these creatures.
What has been taking place within the
hearts of these children?

A child who is taught kindness to ani-
mals, and who acquires the habit of kind-
ness, will be kind to humans as well. Some-
one, whose name I do not know, says:
“Humane education inspires the child to
feed the birds in winter, to put tin cans
and broken glass in their proper receptacles,
and to do a hundred and one little deeds
which make for kindness and civic pride.”

The child learns that he can help, and
he rejoices in his participation. From all
these facts, from his understanding, and
his interest in the creation, he will gain a
background invaluable in suggestion, and
rich in feeling and sentiment, which will
enable him to truly appreciate nature, art
and literature.

Therefore the fundamental thing in hu-
mane education is the reaction upon the
character of the child. The child trained to
apply the Golden Rule in his dealing with
pets, or other birds and animals, is likely
to be governed by the same ideal in his re-
lations to his fellow-men. “For out of the
heart are the issues of life.”

Albert Schweitzer’s Ethics

“Devoted as I was from boyhood to the
cause of the protection of animal life, it is
a special joy to me that the universal ethic
of Reverence for Life shows that sympathy
with animals which is so often represented
as sentimentality, to be a duty which no
thinking man can escape. Hitherto ethics
have faced the problem of man and beast
either uncomprehending or helpless. Even
when sympathy with the animal creation
was felt to be right, it could not be brought
within the scope of ethics, because ethics
were really focussed only on the behavior
of man to man.

“When will the time come when public
opinion will tolerate no longer any popular
amusements which depend on the ill-treat-
ment of animals!”

Like the star that shines afar,

Without haste and without rest,
Let each man wheel with steadfast way
Around the task that rules the day,

And do his best. GOETHE

 

 

 

 

 




 

Oct. 1933

—-—-—

man: It.

 
  
  

 

 

Page 159

 

 

Bathing Canaries
SOLVEIG PAULSON

Litt‘le yellow ﬂnﬂ—balls bathing,
Diamond drops upon their wings!
See that little bright-eyed fellow,
How he swells his throat and sings!

Little, yellow, pert canaries,
Splashing in the morning light;
How their golden feathers glisten,
And their eyes, how black and bright!

Preening, smoothing, ﬂnstered feathers,
Surely ’t‘is a pretty sight,

Little yellow flnﬁ” balls bathing,
Splashing in the morning light!

Swift Rainbow Fairies
EUGENE REYNOLDS

N the winter, far to the south, in Panama, the ruby-throat-ed

humming-bird, the swift fairy of the rainbow, is ﬂying from
ﬂower garden to ﬂower garden, drinking nectar from the lovely
blossoms. But soon, not because of lack of food, or any change
in the climatic conditions, but because of a strange, God-given
instinct, this little fairy decides to ﬂy northward.

Away, away, away he ﬂies over rivers, jungles and mountains
to Mexico. Then he will ﬂy on and on until he reaches the Gulf
of Mexico. And without hesitating, he ﬂies above the stormy
waters of the Gulf, to Cuba, and ﬁnally he reaches our own
country. .

You may see these tiny fairies ﬂying among the roses, pe—
tunias, sweet peas, nasturtiums, lilies, columbine and honey-
suckles. First you hear a strange buzzing sound, then you
locate these fairies. They are but two inches long, heads and
backs are green and their breasts are brown. The throat of the
mother bird is dark, but the throat of the male bird is ruby red.

If you watch the fountains or pools nearby, you will see the
humming-birds taking their bath. If the pool is shallow enough,
they may do a little wading! And if wasps, bees or moths come
near, they will drive them away.

‘ Soon the mother bird begins making a nest, and the male
bird helps a little. The nest is made of ferns, tiny leaves, down
and thistle-down, or cotton, and is fastened together with some-
thing resembling the web of a spider. Two little eggs are laid
in this nest and the mother sits on them for two weeks. In the
meantime the male bird ﬂies here and there, driving off any
birds which come too close to the nest. Sparrows, thrushes,
bluebirds and wrens, as well as larger birds are chased away
from the vicinity of the nest. Also the male bird goes hunting
for spiders, for spiders are the favorite food of humming-birds!

When the eggs hatch, two little birds are seen in the nest.
But you would never think they were humming-birds! They
are ugly, black, skin-covered, balls. But the mother begins
feeding them on spiders and soon the skin comes off and out
comes a pretty little bird, covered with down. Tail and wing
feathers grow fast, and so does the bird, and within a short
time it ﬂies onto a tree limb.

And the very next day you may see the young birds, ﬂying
among the roses, honeysuckles and trumpet vines.

  

 

INNOCENCE AND FIDELITY

»-‘“,

Globe-trotting Birds
JASPER B. SINCLAIR

THE champion globe-trotter of all birds is perhaps the
Arctic tern. This bird breeds so far north that the ﬁrst
nest was discovered only 71/2 degrees from the Pole. It con-
tained a chick surrounded by a wall of newly fallen snow that
had been scooped out of the nest by the parent.

After the nesting season the terns. leave the North and
proceed to their winter home on the edge of the Antarctic
continent, 11,000 miles away. These terns probably enjoy more
hours of daylight than any other living thing as the midnight
sun already has appeared in the Arctic before they arrive,
while daylight is continuous in the Antarctic during their
sojourn there. '

The route traveled by the terns has long mystified scientists,
since they are practically unknown at any time of the year on
the southern coasts of the United States or South America.
During recent years, however, through the process of banding
the birds, several astounding facts have been revealed.

On October 1, 1927, a tern carrying a Biological Survey band
was picked up near La Rochelle, France. This bird had been
marked as a chick in Turnevik Bay, Labrador, on July 22,
1927, and it had thus ﬂown at least 2,500 miles when hardly
three months old. In the following year more birds were banded
at Turnevik Bay, and one of these was found dead near Port
Shepstone, Natal, South Africa, on November 14, 1928. The
shortest possible distance that it could have traveled was 8,000
miles, while 9,000 miles is probably nearer correct. This ﬂight
was made in 90 days, so that the bird traveled 100 miles per
day on the average. Truly a remarkable globe-trotting record!

If you are not a member of the Band of Mercy, write to
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, for full information about it.

7 ,w “v— ‘_,,,_,_,.,V_,‘ ‘Vr—‘ﬁ‘ﬁ" 7* _.“ — 7‘ _,,1___,___~_.________ ._

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

Sept. 1933
The Dying Deer

SILVERQUILL

Oh, Child of the willow! Sweet guest of the
glade!

I watch by you dying alone in the shade;

The ﬂowers around you are darkened and
dyed

By the veins which are torn in your beauti-
ful side.

There’s a stain on the trail; there’s a hue
in the fountain;

My riﬂe has spoke—there is death on the
mountain.

We never were foemen, ah! why should I
kill thee?

Warm current of innocence—why should I
spill thee?

Hot drops of regret rush unasked to my eye

As I lean on my riﬂe and wait till you die.

’Tis not such a death where the jeweled and
proud

Are called to sigh over some shape in its
shroud; -

Those lids of hysteria all empty though wet,

Which glisten a moment then haste to
forget,

But here where the laurel in beauty is
dressed,

And the aspens like mourners together are
pressed,

Bright bloom for your pillow; the moss for
your bed;

The grass for your shroud and the fern for
your head,

With no tear save my own, and the drops
from the brier,

I stand o’er you fallen and watch you
expire.

Ah! Nature will miss you by stream and
lagoon,

Where you polished your horns by the light
of the moon.

Dumb suﬂ'erer dying—thrice beautiful thing,

That could bound from the heath like a bird
to the wing;

What harm in your roaming the shadowy
glen?

0r bending the ﬂags in the cool of the fen?

0r quenching your thirst from the white
rushing stream

Which sings like a nymph where the cool
birches dream?

I would I had left you to roam at your will

As free as the winds which play over the
hill;

0r, had you but wronged me, then well
might I claim

Without pang in my bosom your breast for

my aim,

And yet for all these—wounds, anguish and
death,

Not a sound of complaint save a gasping
for breath.

How cruel the frenzy which bade me destroy,

thich drove me to maim you and count it
a joy;

To take from your eyes all their liquid
repose;

Now I watch their ﬂame fade as they quiv-
ering close,

And wish for the magic muph boasted of
yore ‘

Their gleam to bring back and their light
to restore.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Page 135

Johnny Woodchuck

WALTER A. DYER

FEW years ago a neighbor’s boy came
Ahurrying up to my house to tell me

that there was a woodchuck in my
stone wall and to ask me if he might have
him. Woodchucks often take refuge in our
old stone walls and betray their presence by
an angry whistling when disturbed—a
sound that drives dogs almost frantic.

“What do you want him for?” I asked.

“To eat,” he said.

I knew he belonged to a poor family, and
I also knew that woodchuck meat was not
despised in certain quarters at the right
time of the year. Still, I was skeptical. All
mankind wages war on woodchucks, for
reasons some of which are perhaps justiﬁ-
able, and doubtless this boy had grown up
in the belief that it was a virtue to kill one.
But I suspected that he merely desired the
“sport” of killing a woodchuck.

“How do you plan to get him?” I asked.
“Pull down my Stone wall?”

“We may have to take out a few stones,”
said he, “but we’ll put them back again.”

“And then how will you get him?”

“With a hog hook.” (A hog hook, by the
way, is a murderous looking device that is
used by local farmers, when they butcher a
hog, to lift the carcass out of the tub of
boiling water into which it is plunged.)
“Father always uses a hog hook. It ain’t
hard when you know how. You stick it in
between the stones, get a hold on the ’chuck,
and haul him out. Then you knock him on
the head. It’s the easiest way.”

The process thus cold—bloodedly outlined
turned me sick. “No,” said I, “you leave
that woodchuck in the wall.”

“He’ll eat up your garden,” argued the
boy.

“I’ll take a chance on that.”

I have had dogs that killed woodchucks
and brought them proudly up to the house
to show me, and I have not blamed them.
It is their nature, and to be truthful I have
not been sorry to get rid of an animal that
is too often an exasperating pest, but ever
since I had that picture presented to me of
hauling one of the frightened creatures out
of a stone wall by means of a sharp hook,
I have felt differently about them.

So far as I know the woodchuck serves no
useful purpose in agricultural economy. He
is reckoned a vermin. He spends a good
deal of his time in slothful slumber and
comes out of his den when it suits him to
feed off the farmer’s crops. More than once
woodchucks have committed depredations in
our garden. In a few minutes one can
destroy a whole row of young cauliﬂowers
or cabbages or maturing beans. We have to
ﬁght them by some means or other, but we
do not have to hate them or to delight in
murder. That, it has always seemed to me,
lies at the bottom of the humanitarian point
of view. There should be no unnecessary
cruelty and no joyous killing.

The woodchuck, or ground hog as he is
sometimes called, is a heavy thick-set ro-
dent of a rusty gray color with short legs
and a short, bushy tail. When full grown
he may measure two feet in length. He is
a vegetarian and a hibernator. In the
autumn he stores up an immense amount of
fat and sleeps all winter in his den.

I have forgotten how many years a wood-

 

chuck is supposed to live, barring accidents,
but I have often thought that few animals
see less of life. He knows only three sea-
sons—spring, summer, and autumn. Not
only does he sleep soundly all winter, but
he spends much of his time in slumber even
in summer. He comes forth to feed usually
in the morning and again toward sundown.
He often comes out also in the middle of the
day, but apparently to sun himself rather
than to eat. He seems to be able to get
plenty in a short time.

Lazy though he is, the woodchuck is tre-
mendously industrious when he digs his
hole, and he can ﬁght, too, when cornered.
His teeth are sharp and his thick skin is
a great protection, and it takes a clever dog
to dispatch him. The hide of the old ones
is so tough that not even buckshot will
pierce it except at close range. But the
woodchuck prefers not to ﬁght. He has
learned how to avoid his enemies, clumsy
though he is, and he has few worries.

Some woodchucks live in the woods and
deserted pastures where they cause the
farmers no trouble. These fellows are fast-
er and live a more varied existence than
those of the farms, and they seldom grow
as fat. Last year my dog discovered one on
the high branch of a pine tree in our wood-
lot. Did you know that woodchucks could
climb trees? I never did before. This
’chuck lay quiet and played possum all that
day. The next day he was gone.

The woodchuck is my enemy. Or perhaps
I had better say that his aims in life hap—
pen to run counter to mine, and I suppose
my aims are more important than his. And
yet, with all his faults, I like the indolent,
lumbering rascal. I have a certain respect
for him. Stupid as he appears, he has usu-
ally wit enough to save his tough hide. And
I like to see him waddling across my ﬁelds.
He adds life to our landscape and he is one
of the few wild animals that it has been
my privilege to know at all intimately. He
is self-contained and self-reliant, and with
all his awkwardness and lack of beauty
there is a sort of dignity about him. I can
forgive him much and I refuse to have him
murdered for “sport” if I can help it.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

Published monthly by the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelt

Entered as second-class matter,
Acceptance for mailing at special rate

u U. S_Trade Mark, Registered l

ANGELL m 1868.AND FOR FOR'w.
.T- .

The Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

The American Humane Education Society

The American Band of Mercy

I would not enter on my list of friends,
Though graced with polished manners and ﬁne sense,
Yet wanting sensibility, the man
Who needlessly sets foot upon a worm.
——COWPER

  

GLORY TO
GOD,
PEACE on EARTH,

   
 

  
  
     

AND MERCY To-
EVERY lema
CREATURE.

 
   

y to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood, Massachusetts

June 29, 1917, at the Post Ofﬁce at Norwood, Mass., under the Act of March 3, 1879
of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 3, 1917, authorized, July 13, 1919

Boston Oﬂice, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

 

Vol. 66

Now is the time for every lover of ani-
mals to come to the aid of the Humane
Society.

Years ago Hiram Powers said: “The
greatest need of America is more education
of the heart.” That statement was never
truer than it is today.

The twentieth annual Be Kind to Ani-
mals Week will be celebrated next April,
beginning with Humane Sunday, the 15th.
What a marvelous growth this movement
has enjoyed! It is now sponsored by practi-
cally every animal society in the country
and is honored by special proclamation by
the Governors of several states and the
mayors of numerous cities.

What a sorry spectacle is that of Gov-
ernor Robert H. Gore calling for special
legislation in Porto Rico to legalize cock-
ﬁghts. He is reported to advocate “an an-
nual cock-ﬁghting season with a pictur-
esque carnival and gayly-garbed attend-
ants,” particularly to attract tourists from
the United States. Will it need an ava-
lanche of protests to stop such an outrage?

Five hundred delegates at the State Con-
vention of the Connecticut. Congress of
Parents and Teachers unanimously passed a
Resolution protesting “the making and
showing of moving pictures of acts suggest-
ing cruelty, acts actually portraying cruelty
to animals, acts that can obViously be se-
cured only by cruel practice and acts that
portray animal cruelties among themselves
accompanied by suffering and bloodshed.”

The New German humane slaughter law,
effective May 1 last, provides that warm-
blooded animals must be stunned before
being bled, and that the Minister for Home
Affairs may decide that this provision shall
also apply in the slaughtering of other ani-
mals. Exemption is made only in the» case
of emergency slaughtering. The penalty for
infringing the provision is imprisonment for
not less than six months or ﬁne. Thus Ger-
many again leads in this great reform.

September, 1933

“I’m Interested in Children”

F course you are. Its greatly to your

credit. Who, unmoved, could see a child
suffer? But when you say, “Why spend
money to save animals from suffering when
little children are going hungry and half
naked,” then I answer, Because the major—
ity of people feel just as you do. Out of
every twenty people who are looking out for
children, Mr. Angell used to say out of
every hundred, only one feels the call to
champion the cause of that vast world of
animal life from time immemorial victims
of man’s greed, selfishness, and cruelty.
The total of what they have suffered since
man’s cunning brought them under his con-
trol appalls the imagination of the man
who dares think of it. Yet the greater part
of their life of pain has been spent in
the service of the very men who have sub—
dued them to their tasks, enslaved them,
subjected them without pity to their ser-
vice and their pleasure, overworked them,
heedless often of back or shoulders raw
from galling sores, underfed them, beaten
them, exploited them in a thousand ways.

Are you and I under no obligations to
them? Until these latter days they did
their full part to build our highways, our
cities, our schools and colleges, our libraries,
our hospitals, our homes. By every law of
right and justice they must claim from each
thoughtful man and woman of even common
decency, consideration, gratitude, justice
and compassion. Millions today are glad to
have them killed that they may eat them;
glad to have them bred that they may be
warmed from the ﬂeece sheared from their
backs; glad to have them robbed of their
furry skins by torturing traps that they
may adorn their persons with them; glad
to have them experimented upon that by
the secrets won from their dissected bodies
human life may win a few more days out
of the dreaded future.

“Interested in children. No interest in
animals?” Why not be interested in all that
can suffer? Yes, the child comes ﬁrst. But
can there be no second in our thought, in
our response to suffering, in our conscious-
ness of gratitude for service rendered to
humanity and to ourselves? And, then, can

No. 9

anyone deny the statement that the measure
of the ﬁneness, the worth of our own na-
tures, is the breadth of our sympathy with
all that shares with us the great gift of
life? Is it not true that just so far as so-
cieties founded to better the lot of animals
have widened the spirit of kindness, fair
play, compassion, they have blessed every
man, woman and child they have reached?
Back upon the soul comes with golden ﬂood
the ennobling and reﬁning power of every
generous, unselﬁsh deed done for another, be
it man or beast or bird.

Give, give anything—justice, love, kind—
ness, mercy, friendship, and it shall be given
unto you—and this whether you give it to
the least or greatest of life’s children. Who
will read these words? Few save those who
do not need them.

Please Read This

Some time ago military training in our
schools and colleges was under discussion
in Congress. The Hon. Ross A. Collins of
Mississippi, member of the sub-committee
on war appropriations, said:

“I agree with Major General Charles P.
Summerall that citizens’ military training
camps are worthless as a military organ-
ization. Not a single farmer boy of this
country can take a course in agriculture
unless he is forced to take military training,
except at the University of Wisconsin; and
in many regions no boy can take a mechan-
ical course without being forced to take mili-
tary training. I want the citizens’ military
training camps abolished because they are
worthless, and I want to make the Reserve
Ofﬁcers’ Training Corps optional in the col-
leges and universities of the country. War?
Oh, no, we do not want it.”

Why, then, do our schools and colleges
keep on educating in military mindedness?

Mr. George Arliss, called “the autocrat
of Hollywood,” is opposed to the trapping
of animals. If any artist in his ﬁlms wants
to wear fox or chinchilla it must be syn-
thetic, according to a writer in the Daily
Mail of London.

 

 

 

 




 

 

Apr. 1933

“I Think I Know No Finer
Things Than Dogs”

Though prejudice perhaps my mind befogs,

I think I know no ﬁner things than dogs:

The young ones, they of gay and bounding
heart,

Who lure us in their games to take a part,

Who with mock tragedy their antics cloak

And, from their wild eyes’ tail, admit the
joke;

The old ones, with their wistful, fading
eyes, ‘

They who desire no further paradise

Than the warm comfort of our smile and

hand,

Who tune their moods to ours and under—
stand

Each word and gesture; they who lie and
wait

To welcome us—with no rebuke if late.
Sublime the love they bear; but ask to live
Close to our feet, unrecompensed to give;
Beside which many men seem very logs——

I think I know no ﬁner things than dogs.

HALLIE CARRINGTON BRENT

A Knowing Fox Terrier

R. and Mrs. M. E. Holley, of Bellefon-

taine, Ohio, went to the Mary Rutan
Hospital early last week, where Mrs. Holley
underwent a minor surgical operation, re-
ports the Daily Examiner of that city.

Their little fox terrier followed them to
the hospital, but as he was not permitted
to enter, he set up an awful cry, and after
giving up being allowed to enter, he ran
around to the rear of the hospital and
barked for admission at a back door. He
also lost out there. Greatly disturbed at
ﬁnding himself alone in a strange place,
he surveyed the landscape o’er and ﬁnally
espying the ﬁre escape, he started to climb
it and made a success of it. When at the
landing, the dog hesitated a few moments
and then followed the iron walk until he
came to the window of the room that had
been assigned to Mrs. Holley. The dog’s de-
light was greater than can be imagined.
He cried piteously to be taken in and ﬁnally
the window was raised and the tired little
canine was permitted to enter the room. A
happier dog you never saw than was this
little fellow when he once again found him-
self in the presence of his master. The
chances are that he would have almost died
of despair had he not been taken in. When
Mr. Holley returned to his home he took the
dog with him, but the next day, ﬁnding that
Mrs. Holley was not in the home, the dog
again made his way to the hospital, climbed
the ﬁre escape and again appeared at Mrs.
Holley’s window. Mrs. Holley was in the
hospital until Saturday, and during the
few days she was there the dog climbed the
ﬁre escape four times and went to the win-
dow and asked to be let in.

Fox terriers are usually bright dogs, but
if any can be found any brighter than this
little fellow we would like to see him. It is
not to be wondered at that Mr. and Mrs.
Holley are just as fond of the dog as he is
of them.

Remember the Mass. Society for Preven-
tion of Cruelty to Animals in your will.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

A “WHITE CROSS” PUPPY

The Poor Dog
FrOm The Boston Daily Record

Editor Daily Record :

I am a poor boy’s dog. I take my pen
in paw to ask you is it fair to make a rule
that dogs eat too much to be allowed in
the home of any family receiving public
aid?

Woof! Woof! What a tough prospect for
us dogs who live with needy families! When
your master and his family are on the wel-
fare list the pickings for the family dog
are slim enough, anyhow.

But, according to a ruling of the Wal-
tham welfare department, a dog “eats quite
a bit” and no family receiving aid from
the city may keep a dog.

I ask you, Mr. Editor, is that quite right?
If my master can’t receive city aid and
keep me, who is to keep me? I can’t keep
myself. Must the dog-catcher get me? Must
I stop living? Must I be killed?

Woof! Woof! I know, of course, that
times are tough and that welfare aid costs
the taxpayers a lot and that human beings
have to be kept alive.

A lot is said about how humane and mer-
ciful folks have become nowadays, how
they won’t let an animal suffer.

Belmont dogs are lucky, poor or not.
In Belmont, they tell me, the welfare board
says: “A dog is part of the family.” And
they don’t worry if families on the welfare
list do toss the dog a bone now and then.

Am I part of the family? I’ll say I am.
I am petted like one of them. I look out
for things. I guard the house. I bark when
strangers appear. I do my bit toward earn-
ing my right to live.

Did you ever think of the number of
dogs which have saved people’s lives?

I hope that this poor-dog rule will be
enforced, if it has to be, with as much dis-
cretion and kindness as possible.

Woof! Woof! ROVER

Our readers are urged to clip from “Our
Dumb Animals” various articles and re-
quest their local editors to republish.
Copies so mutilated will be made good by
us upon application.

Page 61

Keeping the Trust
MARY ELIZABETH BOUCK

HT was my privilege one time to hear Mrs.
William Finley, wife of the famous na-
turalist, speak. She is her husband’s assist-
ant in his work, and besides accompanying
him on his trips she collaborates with him
in his writing. Their work is such that
they are constantly dealing with animals.
In fact, among her numerous pets, Mrs.
Finley has had a skunk, a porcupine, an
antelope and two Kodiak bear cubs. They
all have the run of the house whenever pos-
sible. With such a wide experience she is in
a position to know considerable about ani-
mal nature. That day she gave us one of
the “secrets” of her successful handling of
wild animals. It was: “Don’t break an ani-
mal’s trust.”

.I have thought of those words many
times, and in the light of them my under-
standing of animal conduct has increased.
When we were children we had a calico cat
and three little kittens. One night, during
a very severe thunderstorm, Topsy brought
her kittens, one at a time, and laid them in
my mother’s lap. She trusted my mother
and her ability to protect those kittens.

We have a dog now—an unusually gentle
and intelligent dog, people tell me. Per-
haps she is; she’s half collie which is a
kind, intelligent breed. But I’m inclined
to think that much of her gentleness
and intelligence lies in her training. When
she was a small puppy she used to
snatch the food from my hand before I
could set the dish down. Now I can remove
her dish when she’s eating or even take a
bone away from her without her offering a
protest, for she trusts me. She knows I
have a reason for whatever I do. If I chance
to hurt her, she knows it’s an accident, and
comes immediately for me to apologize and
comfort her.

Last summer my young son thought it
was fun to ask her occasionally if she
wanted to go for a walk, just to see her get
excited. When I heard him do it I insisted
that he take her even if they went only to
the corner, and I explained to him that,
being a dog, she doesn’t understand “fool-
ing,” and that unless he took her after
he’d asked her, he was telling her a lie. At.
last he sees my point.

It takes honesty to deve10p trust in an
animal. It takes kindness, too; and if the
animal is young or inclined to be- wild it
takes patience, and sympathy. But these.
are all good Christian virtues, and in prac-
tising them even toward an animal, we are
developing our own characters. There’s a
wonderful satisfaction in knowing that
there is a living creature that loves us and
trusts us absolutely. Somehow it adds to-
our self-respect. And from the animal’s,
point of View there is something to be said,
too. Think what it means to all our dumb
friends to have the feeling “in man we.
trust.”

Stone—walls are full of stories of happy
animal freedom and tragedies; the lifetime
of the best of them is rarely threescore and

"ten, and it is an unusual sight to see new

stone-walls being built like those of the old
settlers who made .them of stones taken out
of their land which they were preparing
for planting. . ~

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 138

 
 
   
   

  
   

  

GLORY TO
GOD,
PEACE ON EARTH,
KINDNESS, JUSTICE
AND MERCY ‘ro
EVERY LIVING
CREATURE.

7.
m'
a

 

 
   
  

Founded by Geo. T. Angel]. Incorporated, 1889

For rates of membership in both of our Societies
see back cover. Checks should be made payable to
Treasurer.

Ofﬁcers of the American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds
JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman, Chase Harris Forbes
Corporation
CHARLES G. BANCROF‘T,
Machinery Corporation
PHILIP STOCKTON, President, First National Bank of
Boston

Vice-President, United Shoe

Foreign Corresponding Representatives

George B. Duff .................. Australia

Luis Pareja Cornejo ............. Ecuador

Charles A. Williams ............. France

Leonard T. Hawksley ........... Italy

Mrs. Mary P. E. Nitobe ........... Japan

Mrs. Marie C. E. Houghton ....... Madeira

Dr. A. T. Ishkanian ............. Mexico

Luther Parker ................... Philippine Islands
Joaquin Julia ................... pain

Mrs. Alice W. Manning .......... Turkey

Humane Press Bureau
Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke, Secretary
180 Longwood Ave., Boston

Field Workers of the Society
Mrs. Alice L. Park, Palo Alto, California
Mrs. Rachel C. Hogue, San Diego, California
rs. Jennie R. Nichols, Tacoma, Washington
James D. Burton, Oakdale, Tennessee
Mrs. Katherine Weathersbee, Atlanta, Georgia
Rev. F. Rivers Barnwell, Fort Worth, Texas
Miss Blanche Finley, Richmond, Virginia
Rev. John W. Lemon, Ark, Virginia
Miss Lucia F. Gilbert, Boston, Massachusetts
Mrs. Jennie R. Toomim, Chicago, Illinois
Seymour Carroll, Columbia, S. C.
Field Representative

Wm. F. H. Wentzell, M.S., Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

Field Lecturer in Massachusetts
Ella A. Maryott

Humane Education in
Schools

H UMANE Education is on the curricu-
lum of schools in several states to the
south of us. It should be on the curriculum
of every school in the world. It should have
a place on the course of every university, for
it is the foundation of peace, security and
prosperity. It is the antidote to the crime
wave that is inundating the world, and the
heartlessness that says that might is right.
It is the cure for war of every description.
It is the thing that will pull the world out
of its plight; for man’s inhumanity to ani-
mals is the pavement to man’s inhumanity
to man, which is the cause of most of the
world’s misery.
—Animal Life (Toronto)

Australia is the only country that has
black swans and previous to 1901, when the
Australian states became a Commonwealth,
the black swan was pictured on all Western
Australian stamps.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

My Wild Bird Guests

WILL A. BARTON
NE part of my house has for many
years been the target for investigation

by ﬂickers. They have the walls pierce-d
with several holes to their credit. I used
to patch the holes they made, but I found
that did not answer, for they would open
them up again right away, so I quit trying
to keep them out. About eight or nine years
ago some little bluebirds called on me in the
spring; they were wishing to rent homes
for the summer. One couple inspected the
bird-house on a pole, thought it all right,
and took possession. The other couple spied
Mr. Flicker-’s holes in the house, they in-
vestigated them and chose a hole that was
about two inches above the ﬂoor of the
upper room where I slept and within three
or four fee-t of my bed. Observing their
wishes, I put an empty box in front of the
hole, and they started right in to building
their nest in it.

A day or two later I had a call from two
kingbirds wishing to rent a home. After
looking the ranch over they picked on the-
opposite end of the bird-house to that al-
ready occupied by the ﬁrst couple of blue-
birds. Now the door on this end of the
bird-house is boarded up as after building
it I thought that it was not large enough
on the inside for two nests. After trying for
some time to get in this end they gave up the
effort and built their nest on the stoop that

. projects out in front of the door. One morn-

ing soon after, when I went outside, there
lay their nest on the ground. The wind had
blown it down. I picked up the nest and put
it in a box and shaped it up as best I could,
then nailed the box to the pole just below
the bird-house. The kingbirds were watch-
ing me, and as soon as I got through they
ﬂew to the box, repaired the nest, and then
settled themselves down. With this little
army of watchmen Mr. Flicker was com-
pelled to keep away from the house all
summer.

The birds that live-d in the bird—house
came back two or three years, but the
couple that took up their abode in the house
have come back every year since, although
they had unpleasant things happen to them
in 1931 and in 1932. In 1931 they had been
very busy raising a little family of four. I
had been keeping good watch of the little»
fellows and they were about ready to ﬂy.
It was in the afternoon when I noticed that
the parents were acting strangely near the
entrance to their nest, so I went upstairs
and looked in at the nest and I saw that
the little fellows were gone and the bull-
snake that had been living in my root
cellar was coiled up in the nest. I promptly
got Mr. Bullsnake back to his cellar. I saw
that he had not got the birds, for they
were in the trees on the river bank near by.

In 1932 a second unpleasantness hap-
pened to them. They had four eggs in the
nest, then the ﬂickers began to bother them
and cause them to stay away from their
nest. In a short time I found that the
ﬂickers had destroyed the eggs. The blue-
birds then left, but one of the ﬂickers has
roosted in that box every night since, com--
ing in just before dusk and leaving just
before daylight in the morning.

A few weeks ago my bluebirds came back
and wished to use their old home, so I put a

Sept. 1933

Fez Report

HE fall in value of the dollar has seri-
T ously reduced purchasing power of the
money we have to send for the maintenance
of the Fondouk. This compels us to limit
the number of large animals we can care
for within its enclosures. The situation
will be much worse when the harvesting
season is over and many of the horses,
mules and donkeys taken out there for hire
are returned to the city. Meanwhile all that
can be done for animals that we cannot take
in the Fondouk is being done both in the 70
native fondouks and about the streets.

Here is one of the many incidents of a
day’s work reported from the Fondouk:

“As I walked through Medina today a
man led me to a cellar—like stable where
we found a donkey almost dead from hun-
ger and thirst, and in a terrible general
state, though quite a ﬁne donkey. It also
had a terrible knock over its right eye. I
fear it may be too far gone to cure, but we
must do our best. Also must try and ﬁnd
the owner.

N. B. This donkey went out cured three
weeks later. We found the owner and ap-
parently the donkey had been stolen and
hidden in the cellar where the thief never
dared to return and collect his stolen goods.
The gratitude of the owner was touching.”

Monthly Report

June, 1933 — 30 Days

Daily average large animals 45.5

 

Forage for same $64.36
Daily average dogs 6.8
Forage for same 4.63
Put to sleep 9 .74
Transportation 3.37
Wages, grooms, etc. 86.33
Inspector’s wages 22.28
Superintendent’s salary 123.76
Assistant’s salary 61.88
Veterinary’s salary 19.80
Motor allowance 12.37
Sundries 24.71
$424.23
Entries: 11 horses, 19 mules, 48 donkeys.

Exits: 8 horses, 19 mules, 34 donkeys.

SUPT.’S NOTES: Visits to 70 Native Fondouks:
Visits made during month, 700; animals seen, 7,732.;
animals treated, 2,310; animals transferred to Ameri-
can Fondouk, 47.

 

fresh piece of tin over their hole with a
smaller hole in it. I also put a false ﬂoor
in the box which makes an upstairs and a
downstairs. The bluebirds stay downstairs
and the ﬂicker stays upstairs, as he has his
own entrance near the top of the box.

Do you not think that there are signs
that these birds did some thinking during
the several happenings? I do, I also think
the snake did some thinking, for he had to
come from the cellar which is some forty
feet from the house, the-n climb up the side
of the house to the entrance to the bird-box
which is nine feet from the ground, and
looks to me like a very difﬁcult climb, a
straight-up wall.

Retired Workers’ Fund

Gifts of $6,067 have been received for the
American Humane Education Society’s
trust fund for the beneﬁt of ﬁeld mission-
aries and others who have spent their lives
in promoting humane education.

Your contribution to this fund will be
most welcome. Please make checks payable
to Treasurer, American Humane Education
Society, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, and
specify that the amount contributed is for
the Humane Education Trust Fund.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

PEPPER

    

 

“UPON THE BASIS OF UNDERSTANDING
SHALL BE FOUNDED HUMANITY”
Pepper, an intelligent terrier, tells

his life from his ﬁrst recollection, on

through escapades, dangers, myster—
ies, and delights, in a way to hold
the attention of all ages.

For the dog, what “BLACK BEAUTY” has
been for the horse.

For sale wherever books are sold - $1.50
LOTHROP, LEE & SHEPARD CO.
275 Congress St. Boston

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

lllllllﬂﬂﬂi
Adomw

3 KILLS
:FLEAS

Instead of
Stupeiying
Them

PULVEX-ING your dog or cat
kills all the ﬂeas, lice, mites, and
keeps new ones off for days.
Harmless even if swallowed. Non-
irritating. Odorless. Used by over
a million dog owners. Guaran-
teed to satisfy you or your money
back. Sold by drug stores, pet
shops, 50 cents, or direct—

William Cooper & Neohews, Ino_
Deot.il]00,1925 Clifton Av., Chicago

 
 
 
 

 

 

 

The Latest and Most Complete Film of its Kind

ON BEHALF OF ANIMALS

Made for the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals in 1933 by the Film Foundation

of Harvard University

Nothing ﬁner in ﬁlm photography, nothing superior in visual-

izing practical Humane Work has ever been accomplished than in this

ﬁlm showing the activities of the Angel] Animal Hospital of the

Massachusetts S. P. C. A., Boston, scenes at the Society’s Rest Farm

for Horses, Methuen, and glimpses of the Society’s Animal Shelters.

Two reels, 30 minutes. State whether regular 35 mm,

or 16 mm. is required

Terms ore application to Secretary

Massachusetts S. P. C. A., 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston

 

 

 

 

Have You Seen the New

HUMANE CALENDAR FOR 1934?
It is now ready for distribution. Colored picture of “Happy Land of Childhood.”
20 cts. per copy; two for 35 cts. or 12 for $1.80 to a single address

AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY, 180 Longwood Ave., Boston

 

 

 

 

 

 

Long on the market, widely distributed, but still going strong—The
Amerlcan Humane Educat1on Society’s superb, unsurpassed ﬁlm for teach-

ing kindness to animals

'THE BELL OF ATRI

Available in both safety and regular stock, also in small 16-mm. size
for portable machlnes. Write for terms of rental or sale.

180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THIS SPACE
CONTRIBUTED

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Since 1832

I. s. WATERMAN & SONS, INC.

itHnbertakers

BOSTON—BROOKLINE—CAMBRIDGE
City and Out-of-Town Service

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 

CAPSULES

ﬁectz'vely remove
Large Roundwor s and Hookworms

The safe, easy-to-glve w r
Dependable. For free booégethlttrIeT‘lEmePE).

PARKE, DAVIS &, CO.

Desk N-58-L Animal Industry De t D t ' '
— Drug Stores Sell Parke-Dagis'Pfoygi/ibgfcﬁ:

Cuticura Refreshing and

Shaving non-irritating

even when used

Cream twice daily.

At your dealers or sent on receipt of 35c.
t Address: “Cuticura,” Dept. 2218, Malden, Mass.

.D

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

H. C. HAM
J. L. HAM
A. L. HAM
PAPER
10 High Street Boston

 

 

 

 

 

 

iL

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

Afar. 1933

“ Horses Preferred ”

ARTHUR E. MCELROY

HE cry, “Get a horse,” directed at the

automobilists of twenty-ﬁve years ago
by the boys in a neighborhood, has long
since been relegated to the limbo of for—
gotten things along with the buggy whips
of the same period. Then the automobile
had not come to stay, in the opinion of
many, but it often stayed longer in one
spot than the owner thought it would when
he took it out.

Today New York City boasts of over
three-quarters of a million cars registered
by owners within its borders, but let us see
whether old Dobbin has been as badly out-
stripped by his successor, the auto, as many
might believe. One authority furnishes the
information that there are still close to
50,000 horses used in the city of New York
for draft or pleasure.

A horse is almost considered a hang—over
from the Victorian era by the average
young person of today, but he is still looked
upon as the most economical form of trans-
portation by the large milk companies and
the more numerous retail dealers in vege—
tables, fruit, ice, etc. He still seems to have
a kick left with all the faster competition
there is available.

A familiar sight in the mid-town district
is the line of hansom cabs along the curb
next to the Plaza Hotel at 59th Street. Some
of the drivers of these look as antiquated as
the one-horse power “motors” they use, but
the demand for them is still great among
the older visitors to New York for their
trips through Central Park. These “cab-
bies” do not work on any 15-5 basis, for it
seems to be the custom to ask a high rate
and then come down to reason when the
customers bargain with them.

The dealers in horses still do a substan-
tial business, despite the fact that they do
not vie with the auto dealers for space in
crowded Broadway for salesrooms, and have
little to offer in the way of “new models.”
These dealers and stable owners seem to
prefer the area east of Third Avenue be—
tween 18th and 24th streets for their sales
and “demonstration” rooms. It is in this
neighborhood that one may see stable boys
trotting their charges up and down to exer-
cise them and keep the “springs” from get—
ting stiff.

Auctions are held in some of these stables
twice weekly. At these functions, where
spirited bidding goes on occasionally, ponies
bring from $75 up, Shetland and Piebald
from $100 to $150. Draft horses sell from
$100 up, depending partly on age, and even
more on previous condition of servitude.

For instance, a comparatively young
horse, but one that has been worked very
hard, may go for $100, and nobody knows
how hard this “second-hand” horse will be
worked by the new owner. From one of
these stables comes the report that they
now sell at auction about 100 head per week
in the summer, and 200 in the winter. Many
a car salesman wishes he could sell twice
as many units in winter as he can in sum-
mer. These weekly ﬁgures come with the
admission that years ago it was nothing un-
usual to turn over 600 head in one week.

Stock in' “Horses Preferred” must be
affected just about the same as automobile
stocks in these slow times, judging from

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

current quotations. S a d d 1 e
horses that would bring $450
four or ﬁve years ago now sell
for $250. Saddle horses are a
luxury these days and all luxur-
ies are available at compara-
tively low prices, if one has the
money to buy.

One drawback to this horse
game, though, is that a saddle
horse eats from 75 cents to one
dollar’s worth of feed per day,
whether he works or not, while
the ﬂivver standing in a garage
eats up nothing until it goes to
work. The horse, too, has his
own compensations to his own-
er; he requires no license, nor
does his owner in order to drive
one. He has a tail but the law
does not require him to hang a
light on it.

Horses may or may not en-
joy immortality, but it seems
reasonably certain that if there
is a horse heaven it is a more
attractive place than the aver-
age automobile graveyards that
strew themselves along side
roads in the suburbs and lots in
the city.

The horse may be further
along on the road to complete
extinction from the city every
year, but he has put up a brave
ﬁght for years and he seems to
be holding his own. We- may
cuss at the horse-drawn vehicle
that holds us up while driving
in heavy trafﬁc, but what would
a parade in New York be with-
out a platoon or two of our
police mounted on their hand-
some chargers to start the line
moving?

Traits of the Raccoon
WILLIS MEHAN NA

HE raccoon is a cleanly and

harmless creature whose
worth to man is not very well
understood. His greatest claim to
our respect is his diet, which con-
sists of crawﬁsh and sometimes
small turtles. The crawﬁsh is
very destructive to minnows and
small ﬁsh and if permitted to
go unchecked will in time almost
entirely destroy the ﬁsh life and
common mussels in a creek. The
raccoon saves the common ﬁshes.
He goes right into the water

after the crawﬁsh and gets him and feeds

 

Page 39

“RASEYN,” THOROUGHBRED ARABIAN
From W. K. Kellogg Stables, California

Horse Sense

CLARENCE MANSFIELD LINDSAY

I Now, rubber tires may be ﬁne!

But 0, a real, live horse for mine!
I’d rather in the saddle be

Than go careering noisily

Along macadam roads so fast

I never see the landscapes passed!

Four-footed friend, men cannot make
Wit‘h steel and bolts a steed to take

Your place, indeed! No true stream-line;
N o chassis, howsoever fine;

N o mere machine, however new,

Can really be compared with YOU!

“My kingdom for a horse!” Thus cried
King Richard, eager for a ride.

And I agree with him, for 1,

Though horseless carriers multiply,
Unhesitatingly endorse

A living, breathing, graceful horse!

Mr. Carroll in Florida

him to the little raccoons. Raccoons are so

shy and intelligent that they may be quite
numerous along a creek and seldom be seen.
They are not often caught in traps which
shows they are able to take care of them-
selves. They make nice pets but their place
and mission is to run wild as Nature

intended.

The closing of a trapping season is like
the signing of an armistice for the little
animals upon whose backs the Creator put
a coat of fur as a protection against the
RED RANGER. .

ravages of a cold winter.

Our ﬁeld worker in South Carolina, Mr.
Seymour Carroll, spoke recently on humane
education at the chapel hour of Edward
Waters College in Jacksonville, Fla: The
day before he addressed 1,200 pupils in the
Cookman Graded School, one of the largest
public schools in the city, where several
Bands of Mercy were organized. He also
spoke at the Stanton High and other schools
in Jacksonville. At Orlando he addressed
the Florida African M. E. Conference and
at DeLand and Sanford he addressed sev-
eral large gatherings. He reports a ﬁne re-
ception in all parts of the state.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

- Actually

KILLS
.fFLEAS

,,: Instead of
Stupeiying
Them

PULVEX-ING your dog or cat
kills all the ﬂeas, lice, mites, and
keeps new ones off for days.
Harmless even if swallowed. Non-
irritating. Odorless. Used by over
a million dog owners. Guaran-
teed to satisfy you or your money
back. Sold by drug stores, pet
shops, 50 cents, or direct——

William Cooper & Nephews, lne.
Deptlﬂllll, 1925 Clilten Av., Chicago

   
    
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

H. C. HAM
J. L. HAM
A. L. HAM
PAPER

10 High Street, Boston

 

 

 

 

 

."‘."‘..."C."‘.
To Assure a Healthy

a u
’ Scalp use 0 c“r ’
3 t1 sour and :

OINTMENT

Price 25¢. each. Sample free.
Address : "Cuticura,” Dept. 9K, Malden, Mass.

Sessos‘noossas‘:

 

 

 

 

 

THIS SPACE
CONTRIBUTED

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Established l 868

JAMES FORGIE’S SONS

l7 Merchants Row
Boston, Mass.
HARNESS.

ENGLISH SADDLERY, AND
EVERYTHING FOR THE HORSE

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Since 1832

J. s. WATERMAN & SONS, INC.

Qanhertakers

BOSTON—BROOKLINE—CAMBRIDGE
City and Out-of-Town Service

 

 

 

 

 

—-.--~ ‘;

 

 

180 Longwood Avenue

 

 

THE BELL OF ATRI

The most widely distributed Humane Film ever produced

Reduced rates for rentals until October 1, 1933

American Humane Education Society

Boston, Mass.

 

 

 

 

Humane literature and Band of Mercy Supplies

For sale by the American Humane Education Society and the Massachusetts S. P. C. A.,

180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass., at these prices, postpaid.

Titles in bold-face type are of books or booklets

Our Dumb Animals, 1932, bound volume $1.00
Our Dumb Animals, January to Decem-

ber, 1929, and 1931, bound in cloth,

special, each .................... .75

Colored Posters, 17 x28 inches, .with

attractive pictures and verses, s1x 1n

the set .............................. $1.00
Be Kind to Animals Blotters, §1/8X33/s--$0-50 per 100

About the Horse

Black Beauty (English), cloth, 45 cents; paper, 20 cts.
The Shame of it—Mutilating the horse

by setting up his tail. Dr. Rowley’s

protest against this cruelty for fash-

ion’s sake. Four illus., 4 pp. ........ Free
What Constitutes Cruelty, Francis H.

Rowley ................ _ ............ $0.30 per 100
Humane Horse Book, 32 pp., 5 cts. “

each, or .......................... .... 5.00 “
The Horse—Treatment of Sores, DlS- ‘ “

eases, etc. ................. ~ ........ .60 ‘
Humane Education Leaﬂet, No. 5 ....... .50 :: ::
The Horse’s Prayer .................... .30

The Bell of Atri, poem by Longfellow .50 “ “
The Care of Mules .......... .

About the Dog

Beautiful Joe, new, illus., $1.50 ........ small, 50 cts.
Distemper in Dogs, Dr. Schneider ..... Free
Rabies vs. Running Fits, Dr. Schneider Free
Eulogy on the Dog, by Vest, post-card . $1.00 per 1 0
The Dog—Its Care in Health and Disease .60 “ “
Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 3 and 4 .50 “ “

What the Chained Dog Says ........... .50 :: ::
The Story of Barry .................... .30

About the Bird
The Trial of the Birds, play .......... $2.00 per 100
Humane Education Leaﬂets, Nos. 1 and 2 .50 “ “
How the Birds Help the Farmer ........ .50 “ “

The Air-gun and the Birds ..... . ...... .50 “ “

About the Cat

The Cat—Its Care in Health and Disease $0.60 per 100
Surplus Cats .......................... .50 “ “
The Cat in Literature ................ .50 “ “
Do Not Leave Your Cat to Starve ...... .50 “ “
“The Beggar Cat,” post-card, 6 cts. per

doz. ................................ .50 “ “

About Other Animals

Prince Rudolf’s Quest, Kenniston, 150

pp., special ......................... boards, 50 cts.
The Strike at Shane’s, cloth, 30 cts. ..paper, 7cts.
For Pity’s Sake ...................... paper, 15 cts.
Michael Brother of Jerry, Jack London, cloth, 75 cts.
Jack London Club Poster, 22 x 32 inches,

one for 15 cts., two for 25 cts., ﬁve or

more each, 10 cts.
First Aid to Animals, Dr. Schneider, 8 pp. $1.00 per 100
What is the Jack London Club? .30 “ “

Foreword from “Michael Brother of
Jerry” ............................. .30 “ “
Gripped in the Teeth of Steel, 2 pp. 1.00 “ “

How to Kill Animals Humanely, 4 pp. 1.00 “ “
Humane Education Leaﬂet, No. 6,, Ani-
mals

............................... .50 “ “
Humane Education Leaﬂet, No. 7, Farm
Animals ............................ .50 “ “

Please enclose remittance

About Other Animals—Continued

Ways of Kindness ..................... $0.50 per 100
Why the Toad is so Useful ............ .30 “ “
Humane Education

The Humane Bulletin, for use in schools,
p ................. 12 cents each ; ten for $1.00
for Our Animal
Friends, 29 pp., paper covers, many
illus. ................. 15 cents each ; seven for $1.00
Kindness Picture Book, 32 pp.
15 cents each ; seven for $1.00
The Teacher’s Helper in Humane Edu-
cation, 32 pp.

....................... each, 10 cts.
umane Education—for Parents and

Teachers, 20 pp. .................... each, 10 cts.
Picture Lesson Cards, each, 10 cts., set

of eight ............................ 35 cts.
“Be Kind to Animals” Pennants ........ each, 25 cts.
“Be Kind to Animals” Placards ........ each, 3 cts.

he Humane Idea, Dr. Francis H.

Rowley ................. cloth, 35 cts. ; paper, 15 cts.
Friends and Helpers (selections for

school use), Sarah J. Eddy ........... cloth, 96 cts.
Animals as Seen by the Poets, Guy

Richardson, 32 pp. ...... cloth, 35 cts. ; paper, 10 cts.
Address to Boston Public Schools ...... $2.00 per 100
Lessons on Kindness to Animals ........ 3.00 “ “

The B—K—T—A Club, play . . .3 cts. each; ten for 25c.
Fred Changes His Mind, play, 5 cts. each ; six for 25c.
“And a Little Child Shall Lead Them,”
play ..................... 3 cts. each; six for 15 cts.
Friends of Fur and Feather, play,
3 cts. each, ten for 25 cts.
Humane Day in Schools, with class-room
project, 8 pp. ....................... $2.00 per 100
Exercises for Humane Day, 1933 ....... 2.00 “ “
Humane Education the Vital Need, Dr.
Rowley, short radio address, 3 cts. each; 1.50 “ “
Our Little Brothers and Sisters, sermon
for boys and girls, by Dr. Jefferson,

pp. .............................. .50 “ “
Humane Education, What to Teach and

How to Teach It .................... .50 “ “

Early Lessons in Kindness or Cruelty .. .50 “ “

Outlines of Study in Humane Education,

8 pp. ..............................
A Talk with the Teacher ..............
Our Love for Animals, a short radio

1.50 ‘6 6‘
.50 ‘6 “

address ................... 5 cts. each; 2.50 “ “
A Festival of Tender Mercies .......... .50 “ “
The Coming Education ................ .30 “ “
A Great Prophecy, Dr. Rowley ......... Free
American College Presidents and the

American Humane Education Society.. Free

Band of Mercy
“Be Kind to Animals” Buttons, three
styles~Band of Mercy, Humane So-
ciety, or S. P. C. A. ................ $1.00 per 100
Buttons—white star on blue ground with
gilt letters and border, one cent each 1.00 “ “
Badges, gold ﬁnish, large, 10 cts. small, 5cts.

“Band of Mercy” Pennant ............. 35 cts.
Songs of Happy Life, with Music, S.

J. Eddy ............................ 50 cts.
Songs of Happy Life (56 pages, words

only) ............................... $3.00 per 100
Band of Mercy Membership Card ...... .50 “ “
How to Form Bands of Mercy ......... 50 “ “

Does it Pay, story of one Band of Mercy :30 “ “

with orders for less than $1

AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY, 180 Longwo-od Ave., Boston, Mass

 

 

 




 

Dec. 1933
' To My Dog

BLANCHE CUMMINS HOEFFERp

The sun will shine as brightly when I die,
The moon will come as nightly to the sky;
There’ll be the same old round of things
Of presidents and wars and kings.

Only a few will know or care

That I have even gone somewhere.

Oh yes, a few will deeply grieve

That I have taken my reprieve.

Of this I know, Oh, yes, I know

A few will miss me when I go.

But they will understand and know

That people come and people go;

That people live and people die

So why another and not I?

But one will never understand

When she comes in to lick my hand,
My empty bed—my vacant chair—
And not to ﬁnd me anywhere.

Oh, who will heed her strident bark?

Or whistle for her in the dark?

Dog Almost Caused a War

FREDERICK HALL in The Pilgrim Highroad

NCE upon a time, history relates, a

pig caused a war between two nations.
This is the true story of a dog that did his
canine best to cause. one, and in all proba-
bility would have succeeded had not ﬁfty-
four nations rushed in and interfered.

. On opposite sides of the Greek-Bulgarian
frontier were the army outposts of the two
nations, between whom at that time there-
was bad blood. Each would have been glad
to “get” the other, and Greece in particular
(for internal reasons) was not averse to
war.

Enter the dog. He belonged to a Greek
soldier and ran away across the Bulgarian
frontier, Where he had no business to go
and his master had no right to follow him,
but did. He was challenged by a Bulgarian
sentry and should have stopped but did not.
Again he was challenged and still he kept
on. It cost him his life.

The man who happened to be at the helm
of Greece seized the occasion to back up the
dog and urge on the war. He mobilized
troops, crossed the border, and made impos-
sible» demands.

Bulgaria (really the man at its helm) re-
fused to be stampeded. He withdrew his
troops before the Greek advance and sent
an appeal to the League of Nations at
Geneva, of which both states were members.

The spark that might have kindled an-
other European war was stamped out.

Few wars, or near-wars, of modern times
have ended, but practically all of them have
begun, in exactly this fashion. A mutual
dislike and distrust (sometimes deliberately
fanned and fomented) becomes intensiﬁed
until it is as explosive as gunpowder. A pig,
dog, or nobler animal drops a spark into
it. If the spark is not instantly extin-
guished, the magazine blows up and the
ﬂames burn themselves out.

“The next war” depends on us. It de-
pends upon whether or not we can overcome
unreasonable racial antagonisms, and the
propaganda of those who proﬁt materially
from stirring up wars, by the creation of
a public Opinion which will demand sane,
thoughtful action on the part of their gov-
ernments.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

Page 183

Reindeer of North America
With Increasing Numbers They Are Saving the Native Tribes

from Starvation .
ELIZABETH CHABOT FORREST

PIF‘HE word reindeer, to most of us, calls
up a vision of Santa Claus driving
his prancing steeds down from the
polar regions. The majority of us, I think,
have very little actual knowledge of the
North American reindeer. Few know that
the ﬁrst reindeer was brought into Alaska
in 1892, hardly forty-one years ago.

The introduction of reindeer into America
was the work of a few far-sighted govern-
ment employees, alarmed by the decrease in
the Alaskan food supply due to the whole-
sale slaughter by white _men of walrus,
whale, and caribou. These people, casting
about for some way to prevent the starvation
of the native tribes under the guardianship
of the government, noted the dependence of
the Siberian natives upon their herds of
semi-domesticated reindeer and decided
that therein lay the solution of their
problem.

In the ten years following that ﬁrst im-
portation of 1892, a total of 1,280 head of

plies both whites and natives not only with
their chief article of diet but with their
footwear, bedding, and fur clothing. In ad-
dition, he furnishes an important means of
transportation. Along the rivers and the
borders of the arctic sea where ﬁsh and
seal may be obtained for dog feed, the rein-
deer’s importance for transportation pur-
poses is not great. But in the interior,
where the deer rustles his own food, grazing
on succulent willow, grass, and lichen in
summer, pawing beneath the snow for moss
in winter, he is invaluable as a beast of
burden.

Under the direction of government em-
ployees and other white men interested in
the industry, however, enormous improve-
ment has been made in the general care and
treatment of the reindeer. Modern abat-
toirs, such as the ﬁve belonging to the
Lomen Reindeer Corporation, have been
built, where deer are slaughtered in as hu-
mane and sanitary a manner as in the most

 

TRACTABLE AND USEFUL TO THE PEOPLE OF THE “WHITE NORTH”

deer were transported across Bering Strait
from Siberiato Alaska. That handful of
deer has multiplied and spread until now
nearly a million head of reindeer graze over
hundreds of square miles of barren, once
unproductive, tundra. For this rapid in-
crease, due credit must be give-n to wise
rules conscientiously enforced by govern—
ment teachers in their capacity as local
reindeer superintendents. According to the
terms of the contracts by which the Eskimos
received their deer from the government,
they were forbidden to slaughter bearing
females and young fawns—a wise provi-
sion, when one remembers that the Eskimo
is by inheritance a hunter, not a pastoral
nomad.

The reindeer is at present so ﬁrmly estab-
lished in the economy of the far North that
it would be difﬁcult for one to visualize life
in the arctic regions without him. He sup-

up-to-date ones in the United States. Sleds
and harnesses designed to give the greatest
possible efﬁciency, are now in general use.
Eskimo herders are taking a genuine inter-
est in the care and condition of their herds,
and are developing a real affection for, and
pride in, their sled deer, with the result
that the deer are increasing in size and
speed and proving docile and obedient pets
as well as faithful servants.

Fund for Humane Workers

We are receiving gifts to the American
Humane Education Society as a trust fund,
the interest to be used for the beneﬁt of
ﬁeld missionaries and others who have
spent their lives in promoting humane
education. We will welcome your contribu-
tion. Please make checks payable to Treas-
urer, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

Aug. 1933

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

The Awarding of Medals to Five Notable Dogs

An Interesting Event

Angell Memorial Animal Hospital, on

June 27, to dogs who had, during the
past six months, performed outstanding
deeds of valor or had displayed unusual in-
telligence resulting in the saving of life, was
the successful culmination of perhaps the
most colorful departure» in humane educa-
tion undertaken by this organization in
recent years. The success of the affair was
in very large measure due to the splendid
co-operation of the Boston Post, co-sponsor
of the project.

Five dogs were selected by the committee
on awards, out of many claims investigated
and found authentic. The committee, con-
sisting of William R. Rogers, president of
the Eastern Dog Club, Miss Francis R.
Porter, secretary of the Ladies’ Dog Club,
and Dr. Francis H. Rowley, was confronted
with a somewhat difﬁcult task, because some
of the other cases were almost equally meri-
torious. The committee decided that the de-
termining factor must be the degree of in-
telligence displayed by the dog in perform-
ing the act. In presenting the medals in be-
half of the committee, Dr. Rowley said, in
part:

“It is ﬁtting that recognition be given to
the heroic qualities of the dog. The dog
that saves a child from drowning, that
awakens the occupants of a burning house,
that defends its mistress from attack while
being severely beaten itself, is performing a
true act of heroism. The dogs assembled
here today are, of course, totally unaware
of what we are doing. Such things are not
within the scope of their intelligence. It is
not necessary that they should be. The pur-
pose behind the bestowal of these medals is
not to glorify the dog, not to seek to raise
him to the level of human beings, more lov-
able though he so often is and more faith-
ful in his loyalty. The purpose is to focus
public attention upon the admirable quali-
ties of the dog character, to instill a greater
love of the dog, a greater appreciation of
his friendship and service to man.”

The gold medal, the premier prize, was
awarded to “Flora,” a collie, owned by E.
D. Tunstall of Brockton, for her heroic
defense of Mrs. Ida Brackett, who was
living alone in the Tunstall home, from
the attack of an intruder who attempted
to overpower her and rob the house. The
dog leaped upon the man, grabbing him
by the arm. A terriﬁc battle ensued, end-
ing in the man’s retreat, leaving blood
spattered on the ﬂoor and pieces of his
torn clothing. A heavy crutch, used by the
man in beating the dog, was broken in
several pieces, and Flora’s head bore num-
erous welts. The four other medals (silver)
were awarded in alphabetical order.

A silver medal was given to “Fritz,” a
cross between a Scotch terrier and a bull
terrier, owned by Dexter Nauman of Ply-
mouth, for his intelligent action in calling
attention to a drowning puppy, which, un-
noticed, had fallen from the deck of a
schooner moored at the Fish Pier. Other
silver medals were awarded as follows:

To “Mitzi,” a full-blooded chow, owned by
Thornton Downs of Portsmouth, N. H., for
awakening his little mistress, Evelyn, one

THE Society’s award of medals, at the

 

CLARENCE HALL, SAVED FROM
DROWNING BY HIS DOG

cold winter night, when the dog discovered
the kitchen ablaze, by pulling the bed-
clothes off the child and then guiding her
to the front door, meantime waking Mr. and
Mrs. Downs by barking.

To “Peter,” pedigreed German shepherd,
owned by Osgood Tower, twelve-year—old
son of Mr. and Mrs. Gilbert S. Tower of
Cohasset, for dragging and pushing his
friend “Don,” a cocker spaniel, out of the
way of passing automobiles after the spaniel
had been struck by a hit-and-run-driver and
left helpless in the road with a broken leg.

To “Puppy,” last but by no means least,
a mongrel, owned by Harold Hall of Mon-
terey, Mass., for leading two Boy Scouts to
a pool of water in which Clarence, the two—
and-a-half—year-old son of the family, had
fallen and was all but drowned. The child
lay on the bottom of the pool, whence he
was recovered by the boys and resucitated.
Puppy really should also have had a gold
medal.

Rodeos, roundups and wild west shows
have been condemned by humane organiza-
tions both local and national. They involve
danger to human life, cruelty to animals,
and a demoralizing effect on the spectators.
Until these performances are outlawed they
should be discouraged by refusal to attend
them.

 

The Jack London Club, with its more
than 575,000 adherents, has made its
inﬂuence felt in the suppression of ani-
mal actors upon the stage. If no other
humane restraints are brought to bear
upon the traﬂic and training of animals
for ﬁlm production, this Club has at-
tained a standing and reputation sufﬁ-
cient to curb the picture-making indus-
try in the matter of cruelty to animals,
if its members live up to their obliga-
tion.

 

 

 

Page 117

Galstrthy Loved a Dog
IEditorial in San Francisco Chronicle

RIBUTES‘ to John Galsworthy since

his death have quite naturally stressed
his greatness as a novelist, as an almost
omniscient interpreter of life. And as the
author of some of the ﬁnest of contempor-
ary English ﬁction and plays he has wholly
earned the best that can be said of him.

But there was another side to Gals—
worthy. How many who know the magni-
ﬁcence of “The Forsyte Saga” know also
a tender little story, “Memories,” ﬁrst pub-
lished in “The Inn of Tranquillity” in 1912?
In that brief, moving study of a dog Gals-
worthy showed his other self. It is one of
the ﬁnest dog stories ever written.

And it. is because of that story and what
it unexpectedly reveals of its author that
many thousands of men and women who
know what it is to discover the ultimate
in companionship with a dog will ﬁnd in
their hearts not only respect for a great
writer but everlasting affection for the man.
In this revelation of his love for a dog, a
love shared by humans everywhere and
since all time, Galsworthy made himself
one with all men, a shar-er, too, in the
simple, everyday emotions which touch men
so much more nearly than those more com-
plex sensibilities he also understood so well.

That he will be remembered as one of
the great is certain; Westminster Abbey,
indeed, may be his ﬁnal resting place. But
he will be remembered also in the hearts
of those who know that to love a dog is
to come just a little closer to the essence
of all living.

Seven Ages of a Gangster

DAVID LEE WHARTON

IRST the infant; squirming and crow-
ing in its mother’s arms as it fondles
a toy of shining metal moulded in the form
of a gun, bought for the child by its mother.

Then the little lad, as he inspects his toys
on Christmas morning. “Gee! a toy pistol,
just like a real one, lots of caps, too. Now
I can play shooting and killing with the
other kids.” .

Then the growing boy with plastic mmd,
receiving impressions to be retained through
life. He hears his father say, “Son, I have
bought you an air riﬂe, you can have lots
of fun shooting birds and stray anlmals
which pass through the alley seeking food
and water. Only be careful not to hurt
yourself.”

Next the hunter. “Say, fellows, father
has bought me a shot gun! He is going to
take me hunting with him, he says he 1s
going to teach me to shoot birds on the
wing ’n’ everything.”

Then the young man at the cross roads,
choosing the path of shadows. “I want.to
get an automatic, please, a good one whlch
can be depended upon never to miss ﬁre.”

And now the full-ﬂedged gangster. “Next
time we put a guy on the spot I want to
handle the machine gun myself. You birds
shoot like a bunch of amateurs.”

Last scene of all. “The condemned man
walking to the gallows between two rows
of guards, all heavily armed.”

Was he altogether to blame? His path-
way from the cradle has been laid upon a
foundation of murderous toys!

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 186

   

  

PEACE ON EARTH,
KINDNESS, JUSTICE
AND MERCY TO
EVERY LIVING
CREATURE.

 
   
 
    

Founded by Geo. T. Angell Incorporated 1889

For rates of membership in both of our Societies
see back cover. Checks should be made payable to
Treasurer.

Ofﬁcers of the American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARSDON, 'Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds
JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman, Chase Harris Forbes
Corporation
CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President, United Shoe
Machinery Corporation
PHILIP STOCKTON, President, First National Bank of
Boston

Foreign Corresponding Representatives
George B. Duff .................. Australia

Luis Pareja Cornejo ............. Ecuador

Charles A. Williams .............. France

Leonard T. Hawksley ............ Italy

Mrs. Mary P. E. Nitobe .......... Japan

Mrs. Marie C. E. Houghton ........ Madeira

Dr. A. T. Ishkanian ............. Mexico

Luther Parker ................... Philippine Islands
Joaquin Julia .................... Spain

Mrs. Alice W. Manning .......... Turkey

Humane Press Bureau
Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke, Secretary
180 Longwood Ave., Boston

Field Workers of the Society

Mrs. Alice L. Park, Palo Alto, California
Mrs. Rachel C. Hogue, San Diego, California
Mrs. Jennie R. Nichols, Tacoma, Washington
James D. Burton, Oakdale, Tennessee
Mrs. Katherine Weathersbee, Atlanta, Georgia
Rev. F. Rivers Barnwell, Forth Worth, Texas
Miss Blanche Finley, Richmond, Virginia
Rev. John W. Lemon, Ark, Virginia

iss Lucia F. Gilbert, Boston, Massachusetts
Mrs. Jennie R. Toomim, Chicago, Illinois
Seymour Carroll, Columbia, S. C.

Field Representative

Wm. F. H. Wentzel, M.S., Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

Field Lecturer in Massachusetts
Ella A. Maryott

Annuity Bonds

Many men and women, lovers of animals,
are getting both happiness and material
comfort from our two Societies’ Annuity
Bonds. These bonds are absolutely safe,
and yield a return according to one’s
age. These annuities make their appeal
ordinarily to people over 40 years of age.
Send the coupon for full details.

The Massachusetts S. P. C. A. (or)
The American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Ave., Boston, Mass.

Without obligation to me,
me your folder which tells all
Annuity Bonds.

please send
about your

Name ....................... Age ......

Address ................................

In making your will, please remember
the American Humane Education Society
of Boston, the ﬁrst of its kind in the world.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Fez Monthly Report

1933 —— 30 days

September,

 

AN INTERIOR VIEW AT THE
FEZ FONDOUK

 

Daily average, large animals 64.5
Forage for same $63.75
Daily average, dogs 12.7
Forage for same 11.48
Put to sleep 28 11.03
Transportation ' 7.00
Wages, grooms, etc. 81.54
Inspector’s wages 25.38
Superintendent’s salary 145.02
Assistant’s salary 75.52
Veterinary’s salary 24.17
Motor allowance 15.10
Sundries 7.67
$467.66

Entries: 24 horses, 23 mules, 56 donkeys.
Exits: 6 horses, 13 mules, 34 donkeys.

 

DOGS IN THE FONDOUK AT FEZ

The Service de l’Elevage have
asked us to control the animals on the market for
horses, mules, and donkeys, held twice a week just
outside the town walls. We there inspected 1,212
animals; treated 245 and sent 5 to
Assistant’s and Inspector’s report on
Fondouks: Visits made during the month, 559; ani-
mals seen, 11,508; animals treated, 3,202; animals
sent in to the Fondouk, 52.

A Pressing Need

The splendid work that has been done in
what was Constantinople, Turkey, now Is-
tanbul, in recent years is at present, because
of the serious decline in the dollar and other
world—wide ﬁnancial troubles, in danger of
a serious set back. This work was really
founded by an American, Lady Lowther,
wife of the British Ambassador, in 1912, and
has been greatly helped forward to remark-
able service by another American lady, Mrs.
A. W. Manning of Robert College. Are
there not some of our American friends who
can contribute in this emergency for the
work in that Turkish city where such tre-
mendous steps toward progress have been
made in the past ten years? We shall be
more than glad to remit any such gifts to
Mrs. Manning.

Dec. 1933

A Seer’s Vision

The Coming Education

N announcing the organization of the

ﬁrst Humane Education Society in the
world, in 1889, in Boston, U. S. A., its
founder, George T. Angell, broadcast the
following prophetic words:

“The future historian will tell his read-
ers that the most important discovery of
the nineteenth century—more important
than all discoveries in the art of war, all
armor—clad vessels, all guns, fortiﬁcations
and cannon—more important than all tele-
graph wires and all the applied powers of
steam and electricity—more important
than all prisons and penitentiaries—was
the discovery of the simple fact that the
tap roots of all wars and murders and
cruelty and crime could be cut off by simply
teaching and leading every child to seize
every opportunity to speak a kind word or
do a kind deed that should make some other
human being or dumb creature happier.”

The years that have elapsed since Mr.
Angell put into organized form his educa-
tional ideas have vindicated his judgment
and made evident his far-seeing vision. So
rapidly has this educational work widened,
so ready has been the response to it, that
it has practically girdled the globe».

In the United States twenty-six states
have now enacted laws requiring the teach-
ing of humane education in the public
schools. Nearly ﬁve million children in the
public schools have been organized into
small humane groups usually called Bands
of Mercy, the teachings of which have been
concerned not alone with the just treat-
ment of all the lower forms of animal life,
but also with that fair and kindly regard
for one’s human fellows, without which no
high type of manhood or womanhood is pos-
sible. Against the inhumanity of race prej—
udice, violence, unbrotherly strife, against
war with its unspeakable horrors of suffer-
ing and blood, and for peace and a large,
generous humanity, these Bands of Mercy
have been now for nearly two- generations
steadily and persistently carrying on their
campaign.

Hundreds of thousands of these millions
of children have become men and women.
Who shall measure the inﬂuence of this
single organization, through these grown-up
boys and girls, in behalf of peace alone
throughout the United States! In working
through the public schools multitudes have
been reached that have been scarcely
touched by churches and Sunday-schools.
These principles also that form the body of
the teaching of the Band of Mercy move-
ment are those that make for the best type
of citizenship.

Here is an educational institution that is
actually world wide in its activities; that
commands the consideration of old and
young alike, that knows no race, color or
creed; that makes its appeal on the ground
of our common humanity. Founded on faith
in God and in the belief that in the human
heart there are divine impulses and emo-
tions that can be awakened into living ener-
gies, this Society has been, during the years
since 1889, unceasingly preaching its great
gospel of justice, kindness, brotherliness,
peace.

It has never lost sight of the transform-
ing and ennobling inﬂuence upon human

 




 

Dec. 1933

Plant for

OUR DUMB ANIMALS
the Birds

HARRIET SMITH HAWL‘EY

S King Solomon looked from his win-

dows at the apple trees that were

showing tender green, he doubtless
heard from their budding branches a song
of songs. Then with exultant heart did
this beauty loving king seize his writer’s
ink-horn to write the joyous pean that has
come down through the years, “For, 10, the
winter is past, the rain. is over and gone.
The ﬂowers appear on the earth and the
time of the singing of birds has come.”

Who of us on a spring morning has not
felt in like ecstatic mood? The ﬁrst lilt of
the song sparrow or the velvety note of the
bluebirds puts us on tip-toe with eager an-
ticipation. Even the radio reporters pause-
from the international tangle-s to announce
the coming of the birds.

That by a little inducement we can have
almost a continuous year of bird singing,
many of us are just beginning to realize.
Birds, like all other good neighbors, have to
be encouraged. There are so many gardens
in these days to pick and choose from that
they may pass us by unless we show signs
of desiring their presence.

Even in winter we need not be without
bird song. When I moved from the city to
the country, I watched the falling of the
leaves and the frost-touched last ﬂowers in
the garden with uneasy foreboding until I
remembered the arbor vitae tree close by
the window. Someone had planted a bird’s
refuge, whether he knew it or not. To one
of its branches I tied a large piece of suet,
while I scattered crumbs and seeds on the
ground and a. feeding—board near by. That
was all that was necessary to have happy
companionship. The birds came in ﬂocks.
I recollect, one particularly snowy day,
when I looked out and saw six big ﬂuffy
blue jays ﬁnding both food and protection
in that arbor vitae. To be sure, blue jays
will never win a prize for their voice, but
they are handsome fellows and comical in
their noisy performances. I came also to
know the sharp note of the woodpeckers,
hairy and downy, the nasal yank of the
nuthatch, the simple trill of the junco and,
in February, the musical chirp of the tree
sparrow. But the real winter troubadours
are the chickadees. They sing all day in
the winter’s sunshine and even chuckle in
its storms. I found, too, that they liked to
sing with orchestral accompaniment. When-
ever I turned the dial of the radio and the
marine band sounded forth, the chickadees

would tune in with evident delight. As a_

concert troupe, few birds are their equals.

This ﬁrst winter with the birds for sing-
ing companions taught me the success of
catering to their tastes. I began to plan to
keep as many as possible with me through-
out the year. One thing, I knew all birds
must have, and that is water. So I used
simple homemade affairs, for birds, unlike
people, do not crave luxurious surroundings.
One is just a pan built around with shells
and tucked under a creeping juniper.

My favorite bird-bath, as well as that of
the birds, is made from the cover of a crock
which is set in a wooden pail, which I
painted green. Around it I let the grass
grow tall. On all sides are shrubs, but the
greatest attraction is the old Tartarian

honeysuckle close at hand. In July, when
the berries are ripe, the robins and cat-birds
ﬂy from bush to bath in a continuous
merry—go-round. '

Another certain allurement is trees, trees
of every kind, and especially evergreens.
These give protection and ideal nesting-
places, while the cones of the pines attract
many seed-eating birds. It is in our two
white pines that I ﬁnd each year about the
ninth of May, a ﬂock of the exquisite black-
throated green warblers.

Warblers, as a family, however, prefer
the apple tree. It is here among the fra-
grant blossoms that they search for insects.
A blossoming apple tree on your lawn will
also assure you of a visit from the orioles.
And, if you are fortunate enough to have
an elm tree, too, quite likely they will nest
with you.

Of course, you will desire the humming-
bird, that bit of jewel-like bird life, that
hums into our gardens, not with a song,
but with a vivacious zest for nectar gather-
ing that is melody in movement. Red entices
him, it seems, and consequently the aromatic
red bergamot, red geranium, and cardinal
ﬂower will all help to bring him to your
garden. And, in order to be assured of
his gay presence throughout the entire
summer, let your porch trellis be twined
with wistaria, honeysuckle, and trumpet
Vine.

For fall days, when most of the birds
are ﬂocking south, there is one irrepressible
songster that will stay with us till after the
trees are bare, if only we will plant sun—
ﬂowers in the garden. Like sunshine him-
self, the goldﬁnch will ﬂit from stalk to
stalk while he hunts his favorite seeds, paus-
ing now and again to favor us with his
canary-like rhapsody. Never a season goes
by but that I have my long row of sun-
ﬂowers planted especially for' these joyous
friends. These seeds gathered and put on
the feeding-board in the winter are also an
attraction for another bird of the same fam-
ily, the lovely purple ﬁnch.

Thus, by a little planning as we plant our
gardens and our lawns, may we have a
song for every month of the year.

Page 189

To a Song Sparrow
MRS. H. A. DANNECKE’R

The magic of his voice charmed me in early
months of spring .
While other songsters still were in the south-
land lingering,

And now, again, when other birds have ﬂed
from winter’s chill,

I hear his modest little chant; his cheery,
tuneful trill.

I walk across the meadow and I ﬁnd him
sitting there

Close by a clump of goldenrod, and though I
tread with care

He hears my step and toward a thicket
makes a jerky ﬂight

And disappears, so neutral in his coat of
gray and white.

But once again I hear his call, so tremulous
and sweet;

From out the thicket’s depths it comes; I
halt my eager feet.

For mild impatience jars his voice; his chirp
contains a plea;

He seems to say: “I hope you don’t mean
any harm to me.”

Oh, bird with the divinest lay that mortals
ever hear;

That sings in weather fair or foul; I pray
you have no fear.

And I shall not come nearer since it causes
such alarm,

But for the gold the world contains I would
not do you harm.

Our readers are urged to clip from “Our
Dumb Animals” various articles and re-
quest their lo‘cal editors to republish.
Copies so mutilated will be made good by
us upon application.

Sea Gulls in Flight

Although Joan Fairchild, dancer, of Bal-
boa, Cal., “wouldn’t hurt them for worlds”
the sea gulls pictured below decided to take
ﬂight and thus give us a good view of their
take-off. Notice that they take a short run
before gaining momentum and thus both
legs and wings are used.

 

 

 

 




 

 

Afar. 1933

OFFICERS OF THE MASSACHUSETTS
SOCIETY FOR THE. PREVENTION
OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS FOR

1933

President

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY

Vice-Presidents

CHARLES G. BANCROFT
WILLIAM DANA ORCUTT

Honorary Vice-Presidents

His Excellency Joseph B. Ely, Governor of
Massachusetts

Ex-Governor Channing H. Cox, Boston

Adams, Edward S., Fall River

Appleton, Francis Henry, Boston

Appleton, Miss Maud E., Boston

Bagg, Mrs. Aaron C., Holyoke

Bartlett, Miss Bess B., Lynn

Bartley, Hattie C., Waltham

Baxter, Hon. Percival P., Portland, Me.

Beardwood, Mrs. James, Dorchester

Blodgett, H. P., M. D., Leominster

Booth, George F., Worcester

Burgess, Thornton W., Springﬁeld

Burns, Bishop Charles Wesley, Boston

Caldwell, Miss Louise W., Dorchester

Chambers, Mrs. Percy, Williamstown

Cheever, Mrs. G. J., Springﬁeld

Clarke, Mrs. Edith Washburn, Boston

Converse, Mrs. Costello C., Boston

Cousens, John A., Pres. Tufts College

Crossman, Howard A., Hampton Falls, N.H.

Cummins, Thomas K., Milton

Ellis, Mrs. Dwight W., Springﬁeld

Endicott, William, Boston

Fitzgerald, Hon. John F., Boston

Forbes, J. Murray, Boston

Freshel, Mrs. Curt P., New York City

Gallagher, Rev. Louis J., Pres. Boston Col-
lege

Godbeer, George H., Fitchburg

Griswold, Lyman W., Greenﬁeld

Kent, Daniel, Worcester

Leonard, Miss Eliza B., Greenﬁeld

Lowell, A. Lawrence, Pres. Harvard Uni-
versity .

Marsh, Daniel L., Pres. Boston University

McIntire, Hon. Charles J., Cambridge

Park, J. Edgar, Pres. Wheaton College

Parker, Hon. Herbert, Lancaster

Peabody, Philip G., Dorchester

Peirce, Miss Charlotte, Boston

Pendleton, Ellen F., Pres. Wellesley College

Sears, Miss E. R., Boston

Stearns, Charles H., Brookline

Stearns, Mrs. Florence Kimball, Springﬁeld

Thayer, Mrs. Ezra R., Boston

Upham, Miss E. Annie, Dorchester

Webster, H. S., Brookline

Woolley, Mary E., Pres. Mt. Holyoke Col-
lege

Younglove, Wm. K., Fitchburg

Younglove, Mrs. Wm. K., Fitchburg

    

xx .

A KINDNESS TO ANIMALS CLUB

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Treasurer: ALBERT A. POLLARD
Secretary: GUY RICHARDSON

Counsel: PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY
& STOREY

Executive Committee
DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY (ex—oﬂicio)
CHARLES G. BANCROFT
STANWOOD K. BOLTON
HON. CHANNING H. COX
WALTER M. KENDALL
WILLIAM E. PUTNAM

Trustees of Permanent Funds

John R. Macomber, Chairman of Chase
Harris Forbes Corporation

Charles G. Bancroft, Vice-President of
United Shoe Machinery Corporation

Philip Stockton, President of First Na-
tional Bank of Boston

Directors of the Massachusetts Society for
The Prevention of Cruelty to Animals >

Dr. Francis H. Rowley, President

William Dana Orcutt
Hon. Joseph A. Sheehan
Miss Dorothy Forbes
Winthrop Packard
Charles G. Bancroft
John R. Forgie

Walter B. Pope
William E. Putnam

Mrs. Frederic A. Washburn
John R. Macomber

W. J. McDonald

Walter M. Kendall ,
Stanwood K. Bolton

Hon. Channing H. Cox
Frank M. Hotchkin

Philip Stockton

Honorary Members

Miss Ann Vogt Barnett, Delta, Pa.
Miss Hattie C. Bartley, Waltham
Mrs. Margaret P. Behrend, Boston
Mrs. Theodore Chase, Boston

Mrs. Wilson Groshans, Aurora, Ill.
Mrs. Miles M. Hapgood, Springﬁeld
Henry B. King, Augusta, Ga.-
Charles N. Morgan, Boston

Mrs. Walter B. Pope, Boston

Mrs. Jennie B. Powers, Keene, N. H.
M. Franco Riccabone, Turin, Italy

Active Life Members

Abercrombie, William H. Burke, Mrs. Florence E.
Adams, Mrs. Nancy M. Burr, Mrs. Herman M.
Allen, Mrs. Linda W. Burr, 1. Tucker
Alstrom, Mrs. Dorothy D. Cabot, Mrs. Susan
Ames, John S. Chamberlin, Charles U.

Anderson, Johan M. Champlin, Mme. Ange-
Andrews, Miss Frances lina de

Virginia Chase, Miss Alice P.
Appleton, Miss Maud E. Cheever, Mrs. Grace J.

Aronson, Harry
Atkins, Mrs. Charles D.
Bagg, Mrs. Aaron C.
Baker, Mrs. Charles M.
Baldwin, Mrs. Anita
Balincourt, Comtesse
Lilian de
Bancroft, Mrs. M. H.
Bandry, George, M.D.
Barnard, Henry F.
larnard, Miss Mary Alice
Bartholomew, J. C.
Bartlett, Miss Bess B.
Bartley, Miss Hattie C.
Bates, Ruth B.
Beals, Mabel E.
Beardwood, James
Beardwood, Mrs. James

Churchill, W. W.
Clark, A. Frank
Clark, Miss Elizabeth
Cochran, Mrs. Edwin Paul
Ccdrington, Mrs. Ethel M.
Converse, Mrs. Costello C.
Corliss, Miss Clara K.
Couch, Franklin Lindley
Craigin, Mrs. Louise
Crane, Mrs. Francis V.
Crocker, Mrs. Charles T.
Crocker, Mrs. Emmons
Crocker, Emmons
Crocker, Miss Katherine
Crompton & Knowles
Loom Works
Crossman, Howard A.
Crossman, Mrs. Howard A.

Behrend, Mrs. Margaret Crowninshield, B. B.

P. Cummings, Miss Florence
Bell, Ernest
Bell, Mrs. Samuel Kent Cummins, Miss Anne M.
Bemis, Frank B. Cummins, Miss Elizabeth
Blodgett, H. P., M.D. I

Bolles, Mrs. Mary K. Cunningham, Mrs. Flor-

Boston Plate & Window ence C.
Glass Co. Curran, Mrs. Maurice
Bray, Miss Ella W. Curtis, Miss Amy

Brown, Mrs. J. Frederick Curtis, Mrs. Ben Aldrich

Curtis, Miss Clara
Curtiss, Mrs. Frederic
Haines
Cutler, Mrs. Charles N.
Dane, E. B.
Dane, Mrs. E. B.
Daniels, Mrs. Gertrude C.
Davis,~Albert M.
Davis, _Mrs. Kate K.
Davol, Miss Florence W.
Day, A. L.
Day, Cordelia P. “Mem-
orial Life Membership”
DeGogorza, Mme. Emma
Eames
DeWolf, Charles E.
Douglas, Elizabeth
Dresser, Miss Celina L.
Drooker, Mrs. Minnie
DuBois, Mrs. George N.
Dudley, Miss Sarah A.
Eldredge, Mrs. E. H.
Emerson, Charles H.
Endicott, Miss Katherine
Endicott, William
Ernst, Mrs. Harold C.
Evans, Owen N.
Ewing, Miss Amanda W.
Farley, Dr. Wm. C.
Fay, Miss Sarah B.
Fearing, Mrs. George R.
Fish, Miss Margaret A.
Fisher, H.
Fiske, Miss Gertrude
Floyd, Mrs. Edward E.
Forbes, Mrs. Alice H.
Ford, Willis A.
Foss, Mrs. James 0.
Foster, Miss Fanny
Foster, G. Herbert
Fottler, Mrs. Jacob
Fowler, G. W.
Fowler, H. P.
Fox, Miss Carolina A.
Frothingham, Mrs. Louis
A

Garritt, Miss Elizabeth M.
Gay, Mrs. Josephine S.
Geiger, Mrs. Albert, Jr.
Gifford, Josiah H.
Godbeer, George H.
Goddard, Miss M. L.
Gray, Miss Elizabeth F.
Gray, Miss Ellen
Gray, Roland
Greenough, Mrs. Henry V.
Grinnel, Mrs. Susan B.
Grout, Mrs. Zira R.
Grozier, Mrs. E. A.
Hammond, Samuel
Harrison, Mrs. Geo. B.
Hathaway, Mrs. C. P.
Hemenway, Augustus
Hemenway, Mrs. Augus-
tus
Hemenway, Mrs. Myles
Henderson, Mrs. H. P.
Hickey, Mrs. J. G.
Hickey, Miss Mary Moore
Higginson, Francis L.
Higginson, Mrs. Francis
L.
Hill, Miss Ella A.
Hill, Haven G.
Hitchcock, John
Helmes, Mrs. Margaret
A. Ramsay
Hooper, Mrs. James R.
Horsford, Miss Cornelia
Hotchkin, F. M.
Hotchkin, William C.
Houghton, Miss Elizabeth
G

Houston, Ada Bell
Howard, Frank A.
Howes, Mrs. Ernfst
Hoyt, Mrs. Frank C.
Hughes, Miss Ada F.
Hunt, Miss Belle
Hunt, William D.
Huntington, Mrs.
Low
Hutchinson, Mrs. Mabel
Ingersoll, W. Fitch
Innes, Charles H.
Ivers, Miss Ella F.
Jackson, Mrs. Ann Gavitt
Jacobs, Mrs. F. W.
James, Ellerton
Kaufman, Mrs. Carl F.
Kendall, Miss Georgiana
Kidder, Nathaniel T.
King, Miss Caroline W.

Amy

Page 45

Kinzle, Mrs. Japsey
. Lockett
Kittredge, Mrs. John

-Know1ton, Mrs. Wallace

M. .
Krook, Mrs. Amanda J.
Lahey, Mrs. Frank H.
Langshaw, Walter H.
Lawrence, John S.
Lentz, Mrs. Eliza
Leonard, Mrs. Chas. H.
Loring, Miss Helen
Loring, Mrs. Homer
Lyman, Miss Mabel
Mabbett, Mrs. H. Earle
MacDonald, Mrs. C. L.
MacNevin, Miss Agnes J.
Macomber, John R.
Mandel], George S.
Mason, A. P., M.D.
Mason, Miss Nannie G.
Mayer, Richard
McDonald, Mrs. Wm. J.
McPherson, William J.
Mellor, Frank E.
Melvin, Mrs. Clara M.
Merrill, Sherburne M.
Milliken, Arthur N.
Milliken, Mrs. A. N.
Morse, Mrs. Susan A.
Munsell, Alex. E. 0.
Murray, Mrs. T. Morris
Newhall, Frederick H.
Niles, Irving Harris
Norcross, Grenville H.
Ogle, Mrs. Kate
Paine, Richard C.
Paine, Mrs. Richard G.
Parker, Miss Eleanor S.
Parker, William A.
Paul, Frank
Peabody, Philip G.
Peirce, Miss Charlotte
Peirce, J. Gadget
Pfaf‘f, Mrs. Charles-
Phelps, Mrs. Frances
Phillips, Mrs. Charles

E. H.

Pike, Mrs. Frank B.
Pope, Walter B.
Pope, Mrs. Walter B.
Porter, Miss Frances R.
Porter, Miss Juliet
Pratt, Mrs. Edmund T.
Pratt, L. Tyler
Putnam, Miss Florence N.
Queensbury Mills, Inc.
Quincy, Mrs. H. P.
Rackemann, Charles S.
Rea, Charles S.
Rich, Miss Alice
Richardson, Mrs. Charles
F.
Riley, Charles E.
Riley, Miss Mabel Louise
Roberts, Paul B.
Robertson, Mrs. M. W.
Robinson, Forrest
Robinson, William A., Jr.
Rockwell, Mrs. C. P.
Rogers, Bradlee
Rountree, Mrs. H. H.
Rowe, E. J.
Rowe, Mrs. E. J.
Sampson, Mrs. R. deW.
Schaltenbrand, Miss E. L.
Schwarz, Richard
Sears, Miss Eleanora Ran-
dolph
Sedgwick, Mrs. Lydia C.
R

Selfridge, Mrs. G. S.

Shapleigh, Amelia

Shaw, Samuel

Shepard, Harvey N.

Sias, Mrs. Alice E.

Silsbee, Miss Alice M.

Silsbee, Mrs. George S.

Simonds, Otis

Singleton, Mrs. Annie M.

Sisco, Mrs. Claire C.

Smith, Mrs. Ida A.

Snow, Miss Louise

Spaulding, Mrs. Harriet M.

Spring, John C.

Stearns, Charles H.

Stearns, Mrs. Florence
Kimball

Stewart, Miss Gertrude M.

Storrow, Mrs. James J.
Jr.

Symmes, Mrs. Henry W.

Taylor, Mrs. John Phelps

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 92

counted four yawning little mouths, but
later discovered there were ﬁve.

July 12. Yesterday and today the little
swallows were out of the nest and perched
on the beam, looking over the terrifying
vastness of the woodshed. The parents,
especially Virginia, spent much time mak—
ing short ﬂights in front of them as if
showing them by example how to use their
wings. The largest one seemed sorely
tempted and kept coming to the edge of
the beam with wings ﬂuttering, like a timid
bather hesitating to take the plunge. Paul
has less patience with all this and soon
wearies of the role of teacher.

July 13. The big fellow tried his wings
today. He nearly backed off several times
ﬁrst, but caught himself just in time. His
mother coaxed him with a bug in her bill,
and ﬁnally he plunged head-ﬁrst to a near-
by beam. He got the bug. Later we saw
him on the telephone wire and then on the
woodshed roof. A second one ventured to
the other beam but returned to its nest.
The bold one evidently lost his nerve as
darkness fell and spent the night alone on
the ridge of the shed. Poor lonely little
chap! But that’s the way to learn.

July 14. Today all ﬁve left the nest and
ﬂew about, perching on the wire, the roof,
and elsewhere. Later in the afternoon the
mother started to coax them back, and an
anxious, troublesome time she had of it.
No sooner had she got two safely settled,
and sought the third, than one of them
would pop out again. It reminded me of
that old game of pigs in clover. Finally,
however, she succeeded in getting all her
babies back on the home rafter for the
night.

July 15. Virginia took her family out
early today but brought them back for a
rest in the afternoon.

July 17. Yesterday the young swallows
went farther away from home, and we
wondered if they had deserted us for good,
but they were all brought in again at night
and fed. They are off again today.

July 19. This morning, after the daily
exodus, it began to rain, and Virginia, with
some difﬁculty, got her brood back under
cover. Later, when the clouds broke, some
of them went out, but the more timid ones
remained. Little phoebes that get caught
in a shower when ﬁrst learning to ﬂy are
sometimes drowned in the grass. Perhaps
that is one reason why some years our
phoebes are so few. The swallow popula-
tion is more numerous and constant. Their
method would seem to be much better.

July 20. The swallow family comes in
now at almost exactly the same time every
night——6.45, daylight saving time—and we
are obliged to leave the supper table to
watch them. Then there is a busy feeding
time on the part of the parents, for Paul
1s a better provider than teacher. Stoking
these growing youngsters for the night is
a bigger task than when they werenest-
hngs. I wonder if they’ve yet learned to
do any hunting for themselves.

July 24. Last night for the ﬁrst time the
little swallows failed to come» home and
haven’t been seen since. Apparently their
education is ﬁnished. Our supper hour
will be less frequently interrupted, but we
shall miss our neighbors.

July 25. Paul and Virginia, without
their young, have been in the woodshed
again today, looking the nest over and

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

The Screech Owl

MRS. H. A. DANNECKER

My heart was torn by worry and distress,
Though evening’s sweet peace on the
orchard lay.

I longed to sob aloud there to express
Emotions hidden from the world away.
Too long suppressed, the tears refused to

come;
Then from a nearby apple-bough I heard
A wild, sweet note, so weird and wearisome
I scarcely could believe it was a bird.

I felt the burden lifting as I sat
And listened to the screech owl’s plaintive
cry;
Once I had shuddered when he sang like
that,
Now, he gave utterance to all that I
Had felt. Since, when I hear his wail I’m
sure
That some soul, wounded in life’s bitter
ﬁght
Needs just a touch of sympathy to cure,
And loves that cry from out the silent
night.

 

exhibiting signs of renewed courting. Are
they preparing to raise another brood?

But they did not—at least not in the
woodshed. In fact, I have never seen a
second swallow brood, though it is a com-
mon practice among our robins and
phoebes. I think, however, that the fami-
lies remain together more or less through-
out the season, and in the fall big ﬂocks of
them appear on the telephone wires. Even
in midsummer I see them sometimes, en-
gaged in play. One more excerpt and the
little story is ﬁnished.

August 27. Almost no birds have been
seen this month. I often wonder where
they keep themselves. Only now and then
one is observed ﬂitting silently from one
tree to another. Today, however, when I
went out with “Shag” (my dog) to move
my tethered cow, a pair of barn swallows
darted suddenly among us—cow and dog
and man. They swooped very close to us,
again and again. It was as if they wel-
comed the companionship. They were
beautiful to watch, with their steel-blue
backs and rufous breasts, their long wings
and forked tails. Swiftly they banked and
turned, a poem of motion. Was it Paul and
Virginia, come to say good-bye?

The civilized man from Plato to Dante
to Goethe has been a patriot among his
own people, but also a citizen of the world.
And it is the function of great men to
penetrate the passing fashions and to
clarify the enduring values of life.

WALTER LIPPMAN

They (the animals) share with us the
mystery of life and mind—they are pro-
ducts of the same august will; they are
sub-personalities claiming kinship with us
in endless delightful ways.

PROFESSOR SIR ARTHUR THOMSON

0

Our readers are urged to clip from “Our
Dumb Animals” various articles and re-
quest their local editors to republish.
Copies so mutilated will be made good by
us upon application.

June,1933

Help the Birds, Help Our-

selves
K. HALLOCK

A. C.

OOD news for the
birds. Nesting-
boxes are greatly on
the increase. Good
news for everybody.
Watching our feath-
ered friends at their
homemaking will help
relieve the tension of
these troublous times.
Two of the most
attractive birds that

 
 
  
   
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
   

will visit us are the bluebirds and the tree
swallows. The bluebirds have a great many
human characteristics. The mother bird
does most of the work, assumes all author-
ity, but at the same time all responsibility.
The ﬂashy male, on the other hand, lends
a note of gaiety, provides entertainment
and reques to take life too seriously.

Although the downright wholesomeness
and the amusing domesticity of the blue-
birds are in every way charming, the spark—
ling beauty and elegant destinction of the
tree swallows are really invigorating. These
latter birds ﬂy around the yard with a wild
abandoned grace and thrilling perfection
of skill that is positively inspiring.

It is, therefore, as much for ourselves
as for the birds that we should give

them every opportunity of displaying their
charms.

Water! Water!

CONRAD O. PETERSON

During the hot summer months steps
should be taken to see that animals and
birds have plenty of water to drink. Our
dumb friends cannot ask for a drink, but
must depend on their masters to provide
water for them.

My own experience on our farm has
proved to me the importance of plenty of
water for our farm animals. If the creeks
in the pasture dry up, we ﬁnd other means
of watering our cattle. Our horses must be
watered often at the water tank. Watching
them drink gives a person a good idea of
how thirsty they get.

Don’t forget your chickens, the canary,
your dog, your cat and other dumb friends
who must depend on you. Let them drink
that they may also bear the heat with more
comfort.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

Page 61;

Wild Animals in Sanctuary

HE bear is the only member of the
T Yellowstone family who is found fre-
quently around the hotels and near the
motor roads, his keen nose telling him where
he is most likely to ﬁnd food. But even if a
bear does approach your car, begging for
food, don’t imagine that this experience is
what is meant by seeing the wild life of the
Yellowstone. It is among the upper reaches
of the mountains that you will ﬁnd the
mountain sheep, the shy antelope, all the
deer family, and the less sophisticated bears.
Here they are not pestered by the odor of
gasoline or by the attentions of the peanut—
offering tourist. Many persons mistakenly
believe that feeding a bear will make him
friendly. On the contrary, if he likes the
food you give him he is sure to want more,
and when that is not forthcoming he is
quite likely to go after it.

It is amazing how absolutely fearless of
man the wild animals grow when in sanc-
tuary, if the effort to make friends is not
overdone. All the wild folk are shy and
nervous and ready to jump at the slightest
invasion of their vested rights. If you don’t
force matters by being in too much of a
hurry, you can approach within twenty-ﬁve
feet of a mountain sheep, his massive, curl-
ing horns forming an ideal frame for his
inquisitive and beautiful eyes.

The behavior of wild animals in sanctu-
ary is a subject of never-failing interest. In
Yellowstone the boundary of their vast re-
treat is a double row of blazed trees. You
can imagine how far-ﬂung that “fence”
must be to encircle three thousand four
hundred and twenty-six square miles. And
yet all of them know when they have step-
ped across the invisible boundary that
spells protection.

ROBERT FROTHINGHAM, in “Trails Through
the Golden West”

New Leaflet by Dr. Rowley

A brief radio address by President Fran-
cis H. Rowley, entitled “Humane Education
the Vital Need,” has just been published by
the American Humane Education Society,
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston. It deals
with the great need for humane education
in our schools and the importance of train-
ing children in the principles of justice and
compassion. It is especially adapted for use
on Humane Sunday or any occasion where-
a short, timely talk is required. Two pages,
price three cents per copy, $1.50 per 100,
postpaid to any address. One free sample
upon request.

 

FORM OF BEQUEST

I give to The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of C '
, ruelt t A
to The American Humane Education Society), the sum of ........... y . . i). . urinals .(or

dollars (or, if other property, describe the property).

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Nature Protects Her Own

EARLE W. GAGE

ID you ever stop to consider how Na-

ture uses wise methods to protect her
own? Most people, for example, consider a
white elephant most unlucky, yet Nature
does not share any suspicions about the
color white. She paints many animals and
birds white for camouﬂage purposes, to pro-
tect them from enemies, whether man with
a riﬂe or beast bent on destruction.

The snowﬁelds of the far north and south
abound in white specimens. There are
Arctic hares, foxes, stoats, ptarmigan, wil—
lowgrouse and numerous others dressed in
white, so that they may be invisible in the
snow and ice ﬁelds from their enemies. And
the ﬁerce snowy owl and the Greenland
falcon have white coverings so that they
may stalk without being seen.

The white Polar bear seems to know that
a little error was made in his design, for
he was given a black nose, which stands out
like a monument against his pure white
coat; when he is stalking seals, walruses,
or man, he takes great care to hide his
muzzle, the one part which shows against
the white surroundings.

South America has a white bat, but its
color is protective and makes it invisible
when it hangs asleep by day among the
leaves of the cocoanut palms, which are sil-
very white beneath.

Although white is a very rare color among
animals and birds, being too showy unless
used as a camouﬂage, the black and white
color scheme of the zebra is often repeated.

The Malayan bear has the upper part of
the body white from withers to tail, and the
rest of the body black. It looks exactly as
if someone had been painting it with white-
wash. But it is invisible at a short distance,
the places it haunts having white stones on
a dark ground. -

The handsome African monkey called
guereza, has jet—black fur on its back with
long silky plumes of pure white covering the
sides. It is completely lost to sight among
the black-barked trees it haunts, from which
hang masses of white lichen.

One young animal has a white coat to
protect it from .the sun’s rays—the gray
seal. It wears this white fur until strong
enough to enter the water with its parents.
The animals born in the blazing hot sun-
shine of the Scilly Islands are perfectly pro-
tected by the fur from being blistered, which
illustrates another way used by Nature to
protect her own.

Be Kind to Animals Week, April 17-22;
Humane Sunday, April 23, 1933.

TO OUR FRIENDS

In making your will, kindly bear in mind that the cor ' ' °
. porate title of our Socret is “Th
Massachusetts Socrety for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals”: that it is thye seconcel
incorporated (March, 1868) Socrety for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals in the country
and Agra}; it has no connection with any other similar Society. ’
y eques especially intended for the beneﬁt of the Angell Memorial Animal Hos ital
should, nevertheless, be made to The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of CrtIelty

to Animals “for the use Of the Hospital,” as the Hos ital is not ' ‘
preperty of that Society and is conducted by it. P incorporated but 18 the

 

 

Apr. 1933

 

 

Our Diamond Shop

specializes in the ﬁne repair-
ing of jewelry and remodel-
ing out-of—date mountings.
The work is done on our own
premises. Estimates furnish-
ed without obligation.

Bigelow, Kennard & Company
West Street at Washington, Boston

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

IN THE EDITOR’S LIBRARY

SELECTIONS FROM THREE ESSAYS
BY RICHARD WAGNER WITH COM-
MENT ON A SUBJECT OF SUCH
IMPORTANCE TO THE MORAL PRO-
GRESS OF HUMANITY THAT IT
CONSTITUTES AN ISSUE IN ETHICS
AND RELIGION

This is a compilation not only of excerpts
from Wagner’s polemic writings but also
of quotations of other great and inﬂuential
humanitarians. They were luminaries in
literature, science, art, philosophy and re-
ligion. They are those who through the
years have championed the rights of ani-
mals and inveighed against the abuses and
crue-lties either deliberately practiced or
thoughtlessly inﬂicted upon them. They
are the “voices of the voiceless” whose"
words are recorded in this exhaustive
volume.

The book comes as a timely contribution
to humane literature and is a ﬁtting trib-
ute to the memory of Richard Wagner,
whose semi-centenary occurs the present
year. It is dedicated to the late Minnie
Maddern Fiske who strove “to awaken a
sense of justice towards every living
creature.”

This most attractive book contains 184
pages, size 7 by 9 inches. It is bound in
orchid linen with Wagner Motif of Com-
passion, “The Holy Grail” Motif from
“Parsifal,” and the decorative lettering in
dark purple. It is desired that a copy of
the book be presented to every Society in-
terested in humane endeavor and such will
be sent to others upon receipt of request.
It is issued by the Millennium Guild, East.
56th Street, New York City.

 

 

Our Dumb Animals

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston ofﬁce; 180 Longwood Avenue.

Address all communications to Boston.

TERMS

One dollar per year. Postage free to any part of
the world.

Humane Societies and Agents are invited to cor-
respond with us for terms on large orders.

All dollar subscriptions sent direct to the oﬁice en-
title the sender to membership in either of our two
Societies.

RATES OF MEMBERSHIP IN

THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
OR THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.

Active Life $100 00 Active Annual $10 00

Associate Life 50 00 Associate Annual 5 00

Sustaining 20 00 Annual 1 00
Children’s $0.75

Checks and other payments may be sent to ALBERT.
g. POLLARD, Treasurer, 180 Longwood Avenue.
oston.

Manuscripts should be addressed to the Editor.
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston.

 




 

i
l

 

 

 

Published monthly by the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelt

Entered as second-class matter, June 29, 1917, at the Post Ofﬁce at Norwood, Mass.,
Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of Do

u U. S.Trade Mark,Registered L

.T- ‘

The Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

The American Humane Education Society

The American Band of Mercy

I would not enter on my list of friends,
Though graced with polished manners and ﬁne sense.
Yet wanting sensibility, the man
Who needlessly sets foot upon a worm.
—COWPER

y to Animals,

 

GOD

I
PEACE on EARTH,
Kmonsss, JUSTICE
AND MERCY 'r'o “
EVERY LIVING
CREATURE.

 

46 Central Street, Norwood, Massachusetts

under the Act of March 3, 1879
tober 3, 1917, authorized, July 13, 1919

Boston Oﬂice, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

Vol. 66

England’s be Kind to Animals Week,
known there as Animals’ Welfare Week,
was observed May 7 to 14.

A recent copy of the Film Weekly says
that George Arliss refused to allow a live
ﬁsh to be used in one of his pictures where
a ﬁshing scene occurred.

“Animal War Heroes” is the title of a
book by Peter Baker Shaw and published
by A. & C. Black, Ltd., Soho Square, Lon-
don, W. I. Five shillings, postage 6d. extra.

If you see a bull-ﬁght on a moving pic-
ture screen, get the name of the company
which made the picture and protest against
the picture as a virtual insult to a decent
American audience.

The letter from Mr. Percival P. Baxter,
former Governor of Maine, telling of his
visit to the American Fondouk at Fez will
be read with great interest by all who have
contributed to that remarkably ﬁne work.

The British Veterinary History of the
Great War is authority for the statement
that over 16,000,000 animals played some
part in the long conﬂict. Horses, dogs,
mules, oxen, camels, elephants, cats, goats,
even geese, were employed.

The saving of $160,000,000 in appropri-
ations for army and navy activities, if
present plans are carried out, will be good
news to multitudes of taxpayers as well as
to those who have long hoped to see less
money spent for so-called “national de-
fense.”

“Committing crimes is so safe today,”
says Dr. Walter N. Thayer, Jr., Commis-
sioner of Correction of the State of New
York, “that a man with any sporting in-
stinct and not much in the way of ethics
will not hesitate to take a chance. Only
about one out of ﬁve committing a crime
suffers any serious discomfort because of
it.” And yet we are told that our prisons
are overcrowded.

June,l933

No. 6

Legislature Defies Will of the People
Intent Is to Destroy Massachusetts Anti-Steel Trap Law

sue of 0m" Dumb Animals goes to press

the Massachusetts Legislature will have
enacted Senate Bill No. 399, which amends
the Anti-Steel-Trap law in a manner to de-
stroy the effectiveness of the humane act.
As this is written, the Senate and the House
have already passed the bill.

As amended, Section 105A of Chapter 131
of the General Laws, which is the so-called
Anti - Steel - Trap law, permits property
owners to set the cruel steel-jawed trap any-
where on their own land and to delegate
that right to any member of the owner’s
family and to any employee. The present
law limits the setting of such traps to not
more than 50 yards from any building or
cultivated land. Inasmuch as all the wood-
lands, meadows and marshes in Massachu-
setts are owned by individuals, with the ex-
ception of a very small acreage of state-
owned forest-experiment land, trapping with
the steel trap under the new law is likely to
be wide-spread again, much as before the
humane trapping law was enacted.

The extension of the right thus to trap
to any employee of the owner lets the bars
completely down. It is believed that under
the wording of the new law, a trapper could
be hired by a farmer to trap the fur—bear-
ing animals on the latter’s land provided it
were done for the “protection of property.”
The Legislature might just as well have re-
pealed the law outright. That at least would
have been an honest, outright procedure.

And thus, temporarily at least, comes to
naught all the efforts of the thousands of

HT is quite likely that by the time this is-

humane workers who strove so valiantly.

and successfully to put the humane trapping
law on the statute books. The law was put
there by the will of 606,532 voters of Massa-
chusetts, who scored a majority of 327,616
votes, one of the biggest ever achieved in
the history of the initiative in this state.
The Legislature heedlessly nulliﬁes that
great popular verdict.

The humane trapping act has been in
effect less than three years. It has not had
a fair trial. The law was succeeding ad-

mirably, and in another year or two it
would have demonstrated the wisdom and
justice of its enactment beyond all dispute.
Several effective humane traps have been
in use, one or two of them greatly superior
as fur-takers to the old steel—jawed trap,
so far as the great majority of the animals
in Massachusetts are concerned.

This change in the law is being made for
the ostensible purpose of affording protec-
tion to the farmers against the depredations
of the “vermin” animals. That is a mere
pretense. There is no wide—spread demand
among the farmers for any change in the
law. They need no protection not already
afforded by the existing law. The plain, un-
varnished truth of the matter is, the law
is being amended to meet the demands of
the so-called “sportsmen” who fear that the
fur-bearers may secure a few game birds
they themselves desire to kill. The hue and
cry raised at the legislative hearings on the
proposed law in behalf of the “poor farmer”
was buncombe, and everybody knew it. The
sportsmen are highly organized and the
gentlemen on the “Hill” fear their votes.

The humane forces of the state will not
take this injustice lying down. They, too,
are organized and the legislators may yet
learn that they vastly outnumber the game-
killers and trappers. There will shortly be
summoned a conference of humane organi-
zations, and out of it will emerge a plan
again to carry the ﬁght to the people, who
themselves, and not the “sportsmen,” own
the wild life of this Commonwealth. The
Legislature has unwisely, by yielding to the
demands of the gunners, opened up the
broader question of the right of the latter
to exploit the state’s wild life in accordance
with their own sweet will. The movement
against cruel traps was never one against
hunting, but the hunters did not believe it.
It is to be hoped that out of the ultimate
settlement of this trapping question, will
come a broader justice to God’s wild crea-
tures, embodying the will of all the people,
instead of that of one restricted, selﬁsh
c’lass.

 

 




 

Nov. 1983

Iowa Farmers Protect Quail
WILLIS MEHANNA

HE ﬁsh and game commission of Iowa

have declare-d an open season on quail

this fall, but farmers of the state are deter-

mined that they are going to save the quail
from destruction.

They have decided that “Hunters Keep
Out” signs will be tacked up along the
borders of their farms and that now is a
good time to entirely stamp out the practice
of hunting.

Some advocates of hunting claim this
proposed open season was to make it pos-
sible for the poorer classes of people to get
a little free or cheap meat. But it has
been shown and proved that gun shells are
expensive and not half of the shots bring
game and it is cheaper and easier to take
the money spent for shells to the butcher
shop and buy meat outright.

Quails are the most beautiful and useful
of birds. They are creatures whose conﬁ-
dence in man for food in times of storm and
deep snow is very touching. During my life
of nearly sixty years on one farm I have
not been able to ﬁnd a single fault with
quail. I, for one, am going to protect them
and I hope that whoever reads this will
do likewise.

It was customary for the congregation
to repeat the 23rd Psalm in unison, but in-
variably Mrs. Brown would keep about a
dozen words ahead of the rest. “Who,”
asked the visitor one Sunday, “was the lady
who was already by the still waters when
the rest of us were lying down in green
pastures?”

 

“HONK, HONK, HONK!”

From “Wood and Water Friends,” by Clarence Hawkes.
Courtesy of the author.

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Page 165'

The Wings of Wild Geese

SILVERQUILL

HE very world has adopted the phrase,

“Silly as a goose,” but, like many other

things we accept without investigating
their claims to truth, this statement is very
far from the facts.

‘A goose is a decidedly wise bird; if not
why did a certain one cover her eggs with
hay to keep them warm when the weather
was cold and stormy though she did not
take this precaution when it was not?

In some mysterious way these peerless
voyagers through space know the time when
they are to leave their balmy lagoons in the
sunlands of the South, and travel to the
top of the world in the land of the Midnight
Sun. On these dizzy migrations, guided by
a wisdom as amazing as it is mysterious,
these swift adventurers of the air keep to
certain longitudinal routes, from all sec-
tions of the country, to arrive at last at a
given spot at the ends of the earth.

Rising, often at sea level, they set their
course to takethem high above the loftiest
ranges, many of whose dawn—kissed peaks
rise cloud-ward more than three miles.
Yet who has ever known of a wild goose
coming to tragedy on the shoulders of any
hill?

On these dazzling annual ﬂights they
cover from six to eight thousand miles,
breasting head—winds and storms that
would drive the stoutest ship upon the
rocks; sweeping down the barbed anarchy
of gales, lawless as unchained Furies, yet
holding steadily to their course, their tire-
less pinions beating across the boiling ele-
ments for more than thirty hours without
rest, while all that time their slashing wings
have driven them forward at
a mile a minute, or fully
ﬁfty feet for every down-
ward stroke.

The best aviators may be—
come bewildered between sta-
tions, though they have the
assistance of strong lights,
and radio connections from
the ground every ten min-
utes; but wild geese never
lose their way, and when did
one of them ever Come to
grief in “making a landing?”
Through starless, tempest-
ripped nights they go to
their destinations with the
dead certainty of gravity
itself.

Wild geese usually ﬂy in
wedge formation, with some
old leader at the point of the
line. This divides the air,
and every member of the
group makes the most of
that fact by keeping a place
in the formation where it
escapes the opposition of the
atmosphere. The leaders are
not able to do this, so change
often, while a continuous
honking is kept up to hold
the ﬂock together.

Then, by some startling
method of understanding each
other, they seem to come to
a common agreement as to
When they should descend for

rest and food. When these have been se-
cured in some wide ﬁeld or island Where
they cannot be approached by an enemy, they
rise once more and pursue their journey. .

The old question, “Where do the wild
geese go?” has. at last been answered. For
generations it was very much of a mystery,
but now the secret is well known. Back
of all this migrating are two very wise
precautions. The parents of the young
birds seem to know they are helpless crea-
tures, unable for some time after hatching
either to ﬂy, or to escape from their en—
emies by swimming. This would mean their
extermination if they lived close to human
centers. Then, wild geese moult once each
year, and during that period they cannot
get off the ground, and they seem to know
that if they were found at such a time
along the rivers and lakes near the dwell-
ings of men they would be exterminated.

To make these things impossible they ﬂy
to the distant, uninhabited regions beyond
the Circle, where the cold waters of the
Arctic wash the forlorn shores of northern
Russia, near the mouth of the Lena River.
Here food is abundant, and uncounted mil-
lions of wild geese congregate in these
places and bring forth their young in safety.

When the sting of winter is felt in those
icy desolations the geese come drifting down
the world to the frostless Sunlands again.
But they do not congregate into congested
centers, as they did during the summer,
they are too wise for that, but scatter
abroad from California to the everglades
of Florida. This wise conduct guarantees
their food supply, and insures their pre-
servation.

And equally as wonderful is the fact
that wild geese have not always gone to
the north with the coming of summer. It
is certain that, if they lived where men do
not, they would remain always by their
warm rivers with no thought of seeklng
safety somewhere else. Going to the Arctic,
then, is something these wise creatures
have learned to do to preserve their ex1st-
ence.

But how did they know that the only
place on the globe where they would be
completely removed from the poss1b111ty of
destruction at the hands of men was the
treeless waste at the top of the world?

From an Ancient Code

He who does not willingly cause the pain
of conﬁnement and death to living beings,
but desires the good of all, obtains endless
bliss. He who injures no creature obtains
without effort what he thinks of, what he
strives for, and what he ﬁxes his mind on.
Flesh-meat cannot be procured without 1n-
jury to animals, and the slaughter of am-
mals is not conducive to heavenly bliss;
from ﬂesh-meat, therefore, let man abstain.”

Code of Manu

Nothing is foreign: parts relate to whole;
One all—extending, all-pervading soul
Connects each being, greatest with the least;
Made beast in aid of man, and man of beast;
All serv’d, all serving: nothing stands alone;
The chain holds on, and where it ends, an-
hnown. POPE

 

 

 




