Wit-33

9
is

March 1956

T/HEANIMALWORLD 31

 

The pedigree Friesian heifer was missed by her owner, Mr Richard
Gill, of Holme Bank Farm, Tong, near Bradford. Whilst walking
round his farm two days later he noticed a hole in the ground leading
to a culvert. lnside he could see the cow who had fallen 8 feet.
RSPCA Inspector Milner with Mr Albert Hodgson entered the
culvert from the other end, crawling on hands and knees. The cow
would not back and the Inspector and his helper coaxed her head
round and slowly she edged forward, finally slithering to freedom.

Photographs by courtesy of the Yorkshire Observer

 

 

 

A LIFE—TIME OF RESCUE WORK

Ewe on Ledge 75 ft. down

Missing for a week, a ewewas located on a narrow
ledge 75 ft. down a quarry, at Spion Kop, Colea
ford, Glos. Below, the land fell away steeply
another 50 ft., but Mr. A. J. Roberts, local
RSPCA honorary worker, aged 67, volun—
teered to be lowered by rope to rescue the
animal.

A ledge half way down from the top to where
the ewe was marooned was chosen as a vantage
point from which the rescue operations might be
directed, and Police Inspector J. M. Johnston was
lowered to this place.

After being lowered by rope to perform the
rescue, Mr. Roberts was unable to catch the ewe,
and Mr. T. Preece, the owner of the animal,
scrambled down to join him. Helpers at the top
began to haul the ewe to safety, but the rope
broke, luckily before the ewe had gone far.
A second attempt was more successful.

For his disregard of danger, and for a life—time’s
rescue work, Mr. Roberts has received the

' RSPCA Silver medal. He received his first

medal for the rescue of an animal about forty

, Years ago, and since that time he has received the

RSPCA bronze gallantry medal and two bars.

Rescue in Darkness

Sheep were rescued from quarry ledges at
Ynyshir and at Pontypridd by Inspector Watts,
Who also released a horse from a cattle grid at

Bargoed Golf Course and qualiﬁed for the
RSPCA silver medal. Another winner of a
similar award is Mr. A. Walmsley, who rescued
a dog from the well of a disused gasometer at
Linacre Gas Works, Bootle, Lancs. There was an
accumulation of water, grease and other refuse
to a depth of 9 ft. at the bottom of the well which
had'sheer walls of brick about 30 ft. high from
ground level to the level of the water. Mr.
Walmsley descended on two ladders, which had
been lashed together." He worked in total dark!
ness, except for the light of a lamp held by a man
at the top of the well. He had to stand waist deep
in the slimy water to perform his gallant deed of
rescue.

When rescued, the dog Was unconscious, but
recovered after treatment.

 

ANONYMOUS GENEROSITY
On behalf of the Council of the RSPCA,

the Chief Secretary wishes to express sin—
cerest thanks to the kind anonymous donor
who left at Headquarters recently a parcel
containing a hundred £1 treasury notes as a
gift to be used for helping the work of the '
RSPCA.

 

 

 

LONDON
JOINT ANIMAL FLAG DAY, J UNE 2

 




 

 

 

March 1956

THEANIMAL WORLD 27

 

 

prescriptive rights of appearance. In this showing
he appears as a skinny mongrel, who has obviously
been sharing his master’s misfortunes and has
not thriven on husks. He has got mange and is
scratching. Equally unattractive is another cur,
with no prescriptive rights whatever, who is
looking on at a scene in which St. Paul is being
stoned. He is rather difﬁcult to make out, because
a wide mullion goes right through his middle and
cuts him in half.

The fourth dog appears in a very different
scene. He is in the middle distance on guard over
a ﬂock of sheep, while Moses in the foreground
is taking off his shoes before approaching the
Burning Bush. Only the dog’s forequarters are to
be seen and, though these might seem more
properly to belong to a greyhound or a saluki
than a sheep dog, the attitude is lifelike and the
dog evidently knows his business. The same
cannot be said of the ﬁfth dog, also a saluki and
also with a ﬂock of sheep. But he is to be excused.
His master is not attending to business either. He
is listening to a comrade who, with inﬂated
cheeks, is playing on a pipe. Both men are very
gorgeously and unsuitably attired and the dog,

who is seated, has a black collar with long gold
spikes. The sheep meanwhile have wandered off
and are drinking from a distant well, so far off
that they look tiny. Perhaps the whole outﬁt might
belong to, BovPeep.

The suggestion is not frivolous. The sixth dog,
another ﬁne saluki, has come straight out of the
pages of a story book. He has no collar, but looks
quite at home and entirely at his ease seated on
the steps leading up to Apollo’s temple at Delphi,
where some ﬁshermen are offering to the god a
wonderful tablet of gold which they have drawn
up in their nets. The temple, though a pagan
temple, differs but little in appearance from the
temple of Solomon in the lower half of the same
window. '

So far we have been looking mostly at scenes
where some inconsequence is permissible and the
spirited vagaries of the Middle Ages do not
greatly jar. But what are we to say of the remain;
ing two? In one a stray cur is seen between the
feet of one of the soldiers who are mocking the
blindfolded Christ; in the other a greyhound is
seated under the chair of the High Priest who is
questioning Him.

 

FLEDGELINGS
The time of year is close at hand when RSPCA

workers will constantly be called upon to accept
responsibility for baby birds which have been
picked up by children. Mortality among these
ﬂedgelings is very high, because in the early stages
they can only be fed properly by their own
parents.

To save the loss of so much bird life in
spring and early summer from this cause, it

should' be repeatedly emphasized to children.

that they are mistaken in supposing that the
young ones have ‘fallen out of the nest’.

Truly a wee bird may occasionally fall out by
accident, and also very occasionally the parent
bird may deliberately push out a weakling or a
defective one, because ‘survival of the ﬁttest only’
is a rule of the bird world.

But when it is time for the little birds to leave
the nest and learn to ﬂy, their first essay with
their wings invariably lands them on the ground.

This is the time so often disastrous to parent
birds and their young alike, when so many
human beings will step in and interfere. Children
need to understand that the greatest kindness
they can do to the ﬂedgelings is to leave them
alone and come away from the spot, so that the
parent birds may carry on with their first ﬂying
lesson. Having shown such assiduity and devotion

in the early care of their young, it is a terrible .

tragedy for them that, through the lack of under—
standing by human beings, they should be robbed

of their little ones when they are just old enough
to be taught to ﬂy.

It is a charming sight to watch the parents
together enticing and encouraging their ﬂedge—
lings by degrees to use their Wings and take the
way up to security again.

M. R. D.

(An article for children on the subject of ‘Fledgea
lings’ appears in this month’s issue of Animal
Ways. EDITOR.) '

 

 

Photograph by courtesy of the Hull Daily Mail

The fulmar being released by Senior inspector Newbury
was going to freedom after being nursed by him. The bird
was found in an exhausted state at Bempton Cliffs

 

 




 

Ami-Eur 4

 

 

March 1956

tion to the following extract from a book, ‘Wild
Circus Animals” by the animal trainer, Alfred
Court, ﬁrst published in 1954:——“I-seized a heavy
training stool, made of wood and steel, weighing
a good eighty pounds. Raising it above my head,
I ﬂung it at Artis, catching him on the hind—
quarters. The animal gave a terrible roar, a cry
of pain rather than a roar of attack, and turned
to spring at me. But the poor beast did not get
far. The iron stool had hit him harder than I had
intended, snapping his leg. Despite that, the brave
animal tried to grapple with me, but when he
tried to rear up on his hind legs as most lions do
before springing on their prey, his injured leg
would not give him any support. I thus had time

THEANIMALWORLD 33‘

and opportunity to retreat hastily and stop Artis

with my fork. The lion stayed stretched out in

the middle of the cage, looking at his paw as sick
horses look at their stomachs. I pitied him, wish;
ing I had not used the stool, but I had done the
only possible thing.” .

Even if Faith Jaques were right in her contention
that no cruelty is involved in animal acts, surely
she could not deny that they provide a type of
entertainment that could only appeal to imma:
ture minds, since no thinking person could take
pleasure in watching a proud animal dressed up
in foolish trappings, balancing on a seesaw, or
leaping through a hoop of ﬁre. It is, to say the
least of it, an uncivilized form of entertainment.

 

QUESTIONS IN PARLIAMENT

In answer to a question from Lieuthol. Bromley’
Davenport, the President of the Board of Trade
said that live horses may be imported from the
Sterling Area, Western Europe and certain other
countries under the open general licence. Imports
from the Dollar Area and the other countries to
which the open general licence did not apply were
restricted for balance of payments reasons and
therefore subject to speciﬁc licensing. The import
of live horses from most countries was also sub
ject to veterinary regulations of the Ministry of
Agriculture, Fisheries and Food.

The concern of the RSPCA at the use of
dangerous ‘toys’ was reﬂected in the House of
Commons, where Mr. Fenner Brockway asked
the Secretary of State for the Home Department
if he would reconsider his decision not to intro!
duce leglisation to prohibit the use of bows and
arrows in a public place, except under responsible
supervision, in the light of the facts brought to
his notice by the Member of Parliament for Eton
and Slough and the evidence of accidents to the
eyes of young children from their use. Major
Lloyd George said that he had considered with
sympathy the further letters shown to him but
he had nothing to add to the reply he gave on the
24th November (in which he declined to legislate
against ‘every kind of boyish prank’).

Mr Peyton stated in the House of Commons
that the Interdepartmental Report on slaughter—
houses had been in the hands of the Minister of
Agriculture, Fisheries and Food for a very long
time. Could the Minister, he asked, make a state’
ment on future slaughter/house policy? Mr
Amory did not agree that the Report had been
outstanding for a very long time, and, in answer
to another question (from Captain Pilkington) he
said that he would certainly hope to dispose of
the matter before, say, another six months (from
December, 1955).

Mr Viant asked the Minister of Health, as
representing the Lord President of the Council,

why monkeys were needed by the Medical
Research Council’s institutions; and why the
Director of Laboratory Animals Bureau ﬂew to
India to speed up the traﬂic in monkeys, in View
of the fact that more monkeys had arrived at'
London airport in 1955 than in 1954, and large
numbers had been arriving every month. '

Mr Ian MacLeod said he understood that the
great majority of the monkeys arriving at London
airport were for transhipment to other countries.
Of the number actually imported into this counr
try, only a small proportion was used by the
Medical Research Council, which requiredmon—
keys mainly for safety tests on poliomyelitis
vaccines. Most of the monkeys imported were
used by the commercial ﬁrms engaged on the
production of poliomyelitis vaccine. The object
of the visit to India of the Director of the
Laboratory Animals Bureau was not to speed up
the trafﬁc in monkeys but to investigate, the con,

.. ditions under which monkeys are obtained and

exported to this country and to do everything
possible to improve existing arrangements.

 

SEEING THE NEW YEAR IN—
HUMANELY!

A report sent to the RSPCA Headquarters
by Senior Inspector Smith (Sevenoaks)
reveals the limits to which an RSPCA Inv
spector will go in his efforts to spare an
animal suffering.

Assured by a housewife that if her hus~
band got drunk—«which was almost inevit’
able on New Year’s Eve———he would ill~treat
the dog, the Inspector invited the couple to
spend the evening with him. They did so
and left his home half an hour after mid—
night—sober.

It was a happy New Year for the dog, to
whom (says the Inspector), when sober, the
owner was extremely kind.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

March 1956

Chorley Village Hall. The sum of £1 1s. was given for
Branch funds.

Manchester and Salford Mrs M. Johnson, Northenden
and Wythenshawe Auxiliary hon. sec., reports that a Christ-
mas Bazaar held at the Woodside Cafe, Northenden,
raised £36.

Montgomery Mrs. Maidie Andrew Hughes, Branch hon.
sec., reports a Christmas effort raised £30 35. 3d.

Norfolk West Chief Inspector Morrison, accompanied by

Mrs. Robson,.Kings Lynn Aux. hon. sec., addressed the
Women’s Inst1tute, Walpole Cross Keys. A collection of
£1 10s. was given to Branch funds.

Carol singers in Kings Lynn raised 155.

Oxford Mrs. F. N. Lund, Branch hon. sec., reports that
Mrs. G. T. Launchbury organized a whist drive at Begroke
and raised £15 for Branch funds.

Pembrokeshire Mr. A. F. Boucher, Branch hon. sec., gave
a short talk on the work of the RSPCA during the
interval of a ﬁlm show given to members of Geogwig Baptist
Chapel.

*

Miss Bosville, Newport Aux. hon. sec., gave a lantern
lecture and raised £4 6s.
Rotherham and District Mrs. Scott, Maltby Auxiliary hon.
sec., organized a whist drive and raised £9 23. 7d. for Branch
funds.

*

Mr. J. Bramall, Thurcroft Aux. hon. sec., has raised £20
by organizing whist drives.
Scarborough A whist drive organized by Mrs T. Fox and
Mrs. M. Askwith raised £11 lls. 6d. .
Shropshire Mrs. Dunning, Horsehay Aux. hon. sec., gave
a talk to Horsehay Youth Club. A collection of 7/6 was
made.
Surrey—Weybridge An Animal Defenders’ tea and ﬁlm
show was held at the Public Hall, Weybridge.
Sussex—West, and Brighton Mr. W. C. Brown, Branch
secretary and treasurer, reports that a Christmas dance
organized by Mrs. Mitchell, hon. sec. for Copthorne and
Crawley Down Auxiliary, raised £107 for Branch funds.
Mrs. Sturt, Henfield Aux. hon. sec., raised £5 by a whist
drive and Mrs. Lisle, Cuckﬁeld Aux. hon. sec., organized
a sale and raised £16. ~
Westmorland Colonel R. M. Powell, Council Member,
presented Mr A. H. Grifﬁn with a RSPCA silver medal
and citation for the rescue of two sheep. Mr. Robert Hudson
and Raymond Hudson received RSPCA certiﬁcates for
the part they played in the rescue. Among those present were:
Mrs. E. Crewdson, Branch Chairman, and Mrs. Boyle,
Branch hon. sec.

THEANIMALWORLD . 35,

Wiltshire—Marlborough and District Mrs. R. H. Baker,
Branch hon. sec., and helpers raised £29 by a sale, and
Mrs Geerkin, at East Grafton, £18 by a whist drive.
Wiltshire North Mrs D. Wheeler, Branch hon. sec., reports
that an effort raised £189 for Branch funds.

Windsor, Eton, Slough, Staines and Uxbridge Mrs. Butler,
Slough Aux. hon. sec., reports that a jumble sale held in
Slough raised £40 for Branch funds. The Company of Eight
produced a play and raised £10 3s. 1d. This Company has
raised a total of £39 for the Branch.

Overseas Branch News
Tanganyika Mrs. Isobel Slater, Branch Organizing Secre-
tary, reports that a Snow Ball was held at the New Africa
Hotel, Dar-es-Salaam, in aid of the Branch’s new animal
ambulance.

Among those present were the Mayor and Mayoress of
Dar-es-Salaam (Councillor and Mrs. T. W. Tyrrell) and the
Chief Secretary of the Government (Mr. R. de S. Stapledon)
and Mrs. Stapledon.

*

An RSPCA Tailwaggers Pets’ Show was held in the
grounds of Government House, Dar-es—Salaam. The judges
were the Mayor of Dar-es-Salaam, Mrs. Stapledon, Mrs.
R. E. Foulger and Mrs K. A. Dobson.

 

LIGHTER .FUEL HELPS ANIMALS

In three years and ten months, from lst March, 1952,
Mr. C. J. Rymer of Hull raised a net total of £1,200
for Branch funds. At collecting boxes placed by Mr.
Byliner donors are offered facilities for reﬁlling petrol
1g ters.

 

 

 

RSPCA FILM NEWS

The Society’s ﬁlms were sent to the following places for
showing recently:

Belfast, Canterbury, Halifax, Potters Bar, Boscastle,
Leiston, Cliburn, Liverpool, Canvey Island, Ammanford,
Upper Norwood, Penshurst, New Cross, Penmaenmawr,
Gravesend, Maidstone, Wavendon, Tottenham, Eton,
Pastures Hill, Nuneaton, Merstham, East Grinstead, Bark—
ing Abbey, Nottingham, Gillingham, Linton, Craven Arms,
Heslerton, South Norwood, Portland, Tonbridge, Derring-
ton, Turnham Green, Whitechapel, Cambridge, Gosport,
London Docks, Edmonton, Mansﬁeld, Seaford, Haver—
fordwest, Penrith, Barking, Ireleth—in-Furness, Norham,
Minehead, Weybridge, Barton—on—Humber, Dagenham,
Woodmansterne, South Oxhey, Exeter, Shirley Warren,
Southampton, Shrewsbury, Plymouth, Cheltenham, Stock-
port.

 

COLLECTIONS

(We give wherever possible the place at which the collection was
made and the name of the organizer or organizers.)

House—to—HouSe

Wootton Bassett, Mrs. Hosier (Aux. Hon. Sec.), £62;
Chiseldon, Miss E. M. Boby (Aux. Hon. Sec.), £11; High—
Worth, Lady Arkell (Aux. Hon. Sec.), £11; Rainham, Mrs
Tricker (Aux. Hon. Sec.), £3 165. 8d.; Leeds, Mrs.
J. W. Harvey (Branch Hon. Sec.), £5 105. 6d.;
Barnham, Mrs. Court (Aux. Hon. Sec.), £18 115; Crewe,
Miss LewiSvDale (Aux. Hon. Sec.), £158 45. 10d.;
Brackley, Mr. R. Deplidge (Co. Aux. Hon. Sec.),
£38 35. 361.; Tunbridge Wells, Miss D. Knox, £228 115. 2d.;
Ringwood, Mrs. Pelling (Co. Aux. Hon. Sec.), £90 65. 10d.;

over and District, Mrs. Price (Branch Hon. Sec.),
£27 35. 7d.; Wellington, Miss Woodward (Aux. Hon.
Sec.), £70 53. 501.; Melksham, Mrs. Keen (Aux. Hon. Sec.),
£18 118.; Westcott, Mrs CastlyeLindwall (Aux. Hon. Sec.),
£10 115. 861.; Sussex, East and Hastings, Mrs. E. Sletcher,
Miss Masters, Miss M. H. Tattersall, Miss E. M. Carter,

£335 185. 10d.; Forest of Dean, Mrs. Demel (Div. Hon.
Sec.), £122 35. 3d.

FLAG DAYS

Shildon & Spennymoor, Mrs. Allinson,.Aux. Hon.
Sec., £22 123. 11d. ” '

LARGE BEGGING DOG BOX

Guildford, Messrs. Whites, £5 18s. (Hon. Secretary——
Mrs. Merritt).

FORTHCOMING FLAG DAYS

ANDOVER .. Saturday, 7th April
CARDIFF . . Saturday, 12th May
FLEET AND CROOKHAM (HAMPSHIRE) Saturday, 19th May
An appeal is made to any readers who are able to assist
these collections to communicate with the local Hon.

Secretary concerned; the name and address of this oﬁcial
will readily be supplied by RSPCA Headquarters.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

R. SOPOCOA=

 

 

 

 

 

FORM OF BEQUEST FOR NATIONAL WORK

To those benevolent individuals who may wish to become benefactors by Will tO this
Society, the following form is respectfully suggested:—

‘I bequeath to the ROYAL SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS, founded
1824, for the general purposes of that Society, the sum of £ .......... , free
of death duty and the receipt of the Treasurer for the time being of the said Society shall
be sufﬁcient discharge for such legacy.’ (If it should be desired that the legacy should be ex—
pended on some particular phase of the Society’s work, a direction to this effect may be added to the

form of bequest.)

 

NOTE
By the Act of William IV and I Victoria, cap. 26, all Wills or Codicils must be in Writing signed by the

Testator, and attested by two witnesses in the presence of the Testator and of each other.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

‘i

 

V

 

Manufacturers of

@MHE‘GDRMS

HOBSON & SONS CAPS HELMETS LEATHER

BELTS POUCHES etc. etc
(LONDON) LTD
Gold and Silver Laces

Embroideries of every
description for ALL
UNIFORMED SERVICES

All inquiries to

154-164 TOOLEY STREET

LONDON BRIDGE S.E.1 PATTERNS OF CLOTH
and ESTIMATES
Telephone: HOP 2476 (4 lines) will be forwarded free of charge

Telegrams: HOBSON, BOROH, LONDON

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 
 

Founded 1824

   
 
  
   
 
  
 

THE EARL OF SHAFTESBURY, KP, PC

ROYAL SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS
Headquarters: 105 Jermyn Street, London, S.W.1

P A T R O N S
HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN
HER MAJESTY QUEEN ELIZABETH, THE QUEEN MOTHER
HER ROYAL HIGHNESS PRINCESS ALICE COUNTESS OF ATHLONE
HER ROYAL HIGHNESS PRINCESS ARTHUR OF CONNAUGHT

PRESIDENT
PROFESSOR GILBERT MURRAY, OM, MA, DLItt, DCL, FBA

VICE-PRESIDENTS
SIR MALCOLM SARGENT, HON LLD, D MUS, FRCM, FRSA

COLONEL R. M. POWELL, DSO

 

 
  
   
   
    
  
   
  
  
  
 
   
  
   
 

 

THE COUNCIL

Chairman: THE RT HON LORD MERTHYR, DL, TD, JP
Vice-Chairman: *MRS WALLIS POWER, JP

*ALLIBBRT, MRS FREEMAN, PETER, ESQ, MP *PRITCHARD, MRS D.
*AISOP, ALDERMAN A. J., FRCA, FCIS, JP GARDNER, HON. JULIET *RATTRAY, R. F., ESQ, MA, PH.D

ANDERSON, L. K., ESQ., MRCVS, DVM. *HARVEY, MRS J. w., MA RISELEY, MRS R. C.

BBRTIE OF THAME, THE RT HON THE VISCOUNTESS HOBHOUSE, J. S. ESQ. *RIECK, H. H., ESQ

BRANSOM, MISS L. G., FRSA HOGG, S. R., ESQ, DSO, MC SHAFTESBURY, THE RT HON THE COUNTESS OF
BYWATER, H. E., ESQ., MRCVS HOWELL, BASIL P., ESQ, MBE SIBLY, w. A., ESQ, MA, JP

CONNICK, REV. WILLIAM, BD, HON CF *HUNTER, MISS sNELL, THE REV PREBENDARY L. J. II., MBE, TD, JP
*COOPER, ALDERMAN J. D., JP LEE, MRS E. M. *TAIT, MR5, MA

DORCHESTER, LT-COL THE RT HON LORD, OBE, JP LOCKWOOD, LT-COL J. C., JP, TD *WALFORD, MRS DESBOROUGH

*DOWDELL, MRS M. R. LONGMAN, MRS w. *meE, HARRy, ESQ, FCA

BSTCOURT—OSWALD, MISS AGNES, MB (LOND), DPH MACNAGHTEN, MAJOR A. WILLERT, SIR ARTHUR, KBE

(CANTAB), DOMs MOORE, LT-COL SIR THOMAS, CBE, MP *WILLIAMS, THE REV H. L.
*EVANs, MRS DAVID, BA POULETT, THE RT HON THE EARL *WINCHESTER, F. I., ESQ, FCIS, FSS
POWELL, COL R. M., DSO

 

* Denotes Branch Representative

 

  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
   

Hon Treasurer—LT-COL J. C. LOCKWOOD, J.P., TD
Deputy Hon Treasurer—HARRY WHITE, ESQ, FCA
Hon Medical Oﬁicer—A. N. CRAWFORD, ESQ, FRCSI
Bankers—MESSRS COUTTs AND CO, STRAND, LONDON

Telegrams—WHITEHALL 7177

 
  
 

SIMPl
SAFE.
. SURE WIFCASH XE

CAPTIVE BOLT PISTOL
e FOR ALL ANIMALS

IchIs AND SHElVOKE no - BIRMINGHAM - a . tum“
5456

 
      
      

OFFICE BEARERS APPOINTED BY THE COUNCIL

Chief Secretary—ARTHUR w. MOSS, ESQ, MBE, ACIS

Assistant Secretary—D. A. L. CAMM, ESQ, BA

Legal Secretary—J. HALL, ESQ

Chief Veterinary Ofﬁcer—MAJOR R. C. G. HANCOCK, BSC, MRCVS

AllditorS—MESSRS VINEY, PRICE AND GOODYEAR, CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS
Telephone—Whitehall 7177

 

 

GRO U P XI l|
Spring Conference

The Spring Conference of this Group will be held on
Saturday, April 28, 1956, at 11 a.m., at The Mansion
House, Doncaster, and all branch and auxiliary
branch'secretaries are cordially invited to attend.
The Chief Secretary of the Society has kindly con-
sented to be present and the Mayor of Doncaster
will accord the Conference a Civic welcome.

Resolutions and other agenda material should be
sent to the Group Secretary as soon as possible, and,
in any case, not later than April 14.

 

 

 

APPRECIATION

From The Cat, ofﬁcial organ of the Cats’ Protection
League, comes this note of appreciation, written by
the Misses Lawrence, Secretary for the League in
Bradfordz—“The R.S.P.C.A. have worked unceas—
ingly With us to ﬁnd homes for the strays, and our
heartfelt thanks are due tO that Society for their
willing CO—Operation with us. We are greatly indebted
to them.”

 

 

 

 

 




d 1
y
. “i

 

Worl

mmal

 

A

[Keystone

T
N
E
M
E
oln
T
E
R
m
F.
O

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

ANIMALTHEWORLD

THE OFFICIAL MAGAZINE OF THE RSPCA

 

 

Vol H No 3

New Series

MARCH I 956

‘ PRICE THREEPENCE
4s. 6d. per annum. Post Paid

 

 

BORN TO SUFFER

 

Photo] [John W. Young
just born, calves only a day or two older begin arduous
. travels

 

Ina recent prosecution at a magistrates’ court in
Cumberland, two men were convicted of causing
unnecessary suffering to 95 calves. The calves
were being conveyed on two decks of a three—
decked motor vehicle from Cumberland to
London. Investigation revealed serious over—
crowding of the calves, and insuﬂicient height for
many of them to stand upright.

Evidence was given by the defence that this
particular vehicle had regularly carried as
many as 1 10 calves on the same journey using
the three decks of the vehicle.

RSPCA Inspectors and the Police have
actively cooperated in the checking of cruelty
involved in the over—loading of animals; where
evidence warranted prosecution, court action has
been taken; where warnings were necessary, they
have been issued, and ﬁnally, the very vigilance of
these ofﬁcers has brought about an improvement
in standards

But this is not enough!

The 95 calves who featured 1n the Cumberland

prosecution were described as being from one to
seven days old. They had been reared in the
grazing country of the Nortthest, and they were
being transported at a tender age to a London
slaughterahouse.

It is the practice of sending these young
animals for such distances that the RSPCA
seeks to stop. At present it is legal.

On the farms where they are reared, these
calves are unwanted. They are born to suffer.

The dairy farmers of the grazing areas in this
country attempt to have their cows calve in the
last three months of the year because they wish
to increase the milk yield at a time when supplies
are low. During the ﬁrst three or four days of
their life, these calves are allowed to have their
natural food, as the cow’s milk at this time
(known as colostrum) is not suitable for the
market.

After that the calves take milk for which the
farmer can obtain in winter 43. and in summer 33.
per gallon. In the ﬁrst fortnight calves would drink
about a gallon per day each; between the second
and fourth weeks they‘would drink 1—;— gallons
per day each.

This would mean a heavy loss of revenue for
the farmer. For this reason he wishes to dispose
of them.

Whilst stating this harsh economic truth, we
do not suggest that the farmer is prepared to see
the unwanted calf suffer unnecessarily. The sale
of the animal represents for him a source of
income.

He takes the calf to market, and the animal is
then bought by a dealer, who will perhaps take
it to a collection centre and ﬁnally to the distant
slaughter—house.

The RSPCA does not consider the farmer
blameless. He takes the calf—a tender creature
aged sometimes only a day or two—to a cold
market to be exposed, possibly, to icy winds and
to the inevitable bewilderment and confusion of
the market. So continues the calf’s brief life of
suffering, which increases in agony whilst the
animal is transported to the distant centres Of
population (often London), where the dealers
know that veal will fetch the higheSt price.

 




 

 

." 444

 

March 1956

THEANIMALWORLD 29

 

 

OBITUARY

With sincere regret we report these deaths: Mrs
Giddings, former hon secretary of Kenley Aux—
iliary, Mrs MacQueen, former hon secretary of
Chorley Auxiliary, Miss Ritchie, hon secretary

of Brixham Auxiliary, Captain E. G. Fairholme'

(see separate notice), Mrs Fisher, hon secretary
of Ufford Auxiliary, Mr A. R. Saward, hon
treasurer of Suffolk—East, and Ipswich Branch
for many years, Miss B. Helyar, Vice—President
of Somerset—South Branch.

CAPTAIN E. G. FAIRHOLME

Captain
Fairhdlme
at the
time of his
retirement

 

Captain E. O. Fairholme, OBE, was Chief Secrer
tary of the RSPCA for twenty—eight years. During
that period—thanks very largely to his personal
efforts—the Society made considerable progress
in connection with the decrepit horse traffic, i.e.
the export of diseased, aged and worn out horses
to the Continent. In waging this campaign, he
suffered personal violence whilst on a visit to

Belgium, but by sheer persistence and dauntless
courage he gained his end in the passing of a
series of Acts and Orders, which ﬁnally ended the
traffic.

His period of office was notable also for another
arduous and costly campaign which the Society
conducted in connection with the slaughter of
animals for food, and which culminated in the
passing of the Slaughter of Animals Act, 1933,
a Measure with which Sir Thomas Moore’s name
will for ever be associated. The Act in question
made compulsory the stunning of all food animals
prior to slaughter and was a milestone on the up,
ward road of animal protection in this country.

Captain Fairholme saw the Society grow in
prestige and inﬂuence and witnessed its recog
nition by Parliament through the Act of Incorv
poration in 1932.

He was awarded the Order of the British Emv
pire for his services with the Royal Army Veterv
inary Corps in connection with the Society’s Sick
and Wounded Horses Fund, for which the sum
of over a quarter of a million pounds was raised
during the ﬁrst Great War. Captain Fairholme
himself served with the Colours in France and
saw the Fund at work, providing hospitals, ambuv
lances and innumerable small comforts for horses
wounded or maimed in battle.

He had a charming personality and was popular
wherever he went. He did not spare himself in
furthering the Society’s aims and working in close
contact with him, as his private secretary, for
many years, I came to appreciate his sterling
qualities and his skilful handling of difﬁcult situav
tions. One can truthfully say that he served the

animal protection cause faithfully and well.
A. W. M.

 

NEWS OF PARLIAMENTARY BILLS

Animal Boarding Establishments Bill
The Council of the RSPCA has approved a

Bill to provide for the licensing and inspection of
animal boarding establishments. This measure
has been drafted and is ready for introduction.

. Huddersﬁeld Corporation Bill

A Clause has been inserted in this Bill, to the
effect that all animal boarding establishments will
have to be registered by the Corporation, and the
Bill will give them powers to make byelaws in
relation to such premises, laying down conditions
on similar lines to the Pet Animals Act, 1951.
Although the RSPCA would like this superv
vision on a national scale, by means of an Act
applying throughout the country, it is encouraging
to know that one local authority is taking a ead
in this matter.

Small Lotteries and Gaming Bill

Mr. Philips Price, M.P., agreed to move an
amendment for Committee Stage of the above
Bill that ‘no prize shall consist of or include any
live animal, bird or ﬁsh’, in connection with
small lotteries. Considerable discussion took
place on this, many Members speaking in favour
of the amendment. The point was made that as
the Bill only dealt with small lotteries, the amend—
ment would not have the effect of covering all
cases where live animals, birds or ﬁshes were
offered as prizes. Mr. Philips Price stated that he
was impressed with this argument and, in View of
this, withdrew the amendment, but made it quite
clear that before the Report Stage, he would at»
tempt to devise an amendment which would
cover the matter on a much wider basis. The
RSPCA Parliamentary Organizer is in touch with
Mr. Philips Price, with a View to endeavouring to
frame such an amendment for the Report Stage,
which will not be for some little time-

 




 

26 . THEANIMALWORLD

March 1956

 

 

Even if the long journey were comfortable the
RSPCA would still consider it objectionable,
since very young calves are difficult to feed
artiﬁcially. The majority of those in this trafﬁc
are still at an age when they should be suckled.

The RSPCA has always advocated the
humane slaughter of these animals at efﬁcient
abattoirs nearest to the farms where they are
born, but so many interests are involved that
this plan has so far encountered strong oppo—
sition. As an alternative, the RSPCA
would like to see it made illegal for calves
below a certain age to be sent either to the
market or to the slaughter—houses.

The difficulty with this reform is that there is
no simple criterion for judging age, and an Order
embodying this principle would not be easy to
apply.

To recognize difﬁculties is not to be dismayed

by them. The RSPCA, in its long history, has
faced and solved much harder problems. When
the goal is the relief of animal suffering, the
RSPCA believes that no problem is insoluble.

So long as we keep steadily before our imagina—
tions the largeveyed misery of these young calves,
shivering in cold and unfamiliar markets, or
crowded in lurching lorries on their way to distant
slaughter, we shall not rest until we have devised
some means of cutting of this likely source of legal
animal suffering. And the vigilance of RSPCA
Inspectors will ensure that we have no chance of for—
getting the plight of these animals. Night and day
these men are doing all in their power to lighten the
lot of the young calves born to suffer, and in the
meantime they are providing evidence of suffering—
the telling evidence without which our demands for
reform would be of no avail in a hardvheaded
world. EDITOR

 

Reprinted from ‘The Times’ with acknowledgments

THAT DOG IN THE WINDOW

Toby and Seven Others in a Cambridge
Chapel

From a correspondent

The dog
beneath the
High Priest’s
chair

 

Some people think that dogs are out of place in
church, even painted dogs in stained glass windows.
Not so the designers of the great windows in
King’s College Chapel at Cambridge. They seem
to have been canine fanciers, with a marked
preference for salukis or greyhounds but also
ready to admit other breeds, even breeds not
recognized at Cruft’s, and they cheerfully popped
their favourites into all sorts of scenes. There are
25 windows of old glass and no fewer than eight
dogs, mostly with long curly tails.

Let us parade the dogs. First we must see one
who might answer to the name of Toby. He is not
much to look at, but he is, so to speak, the only
legitimate dog in the show, the only one with areal

right to be there, because he alone is mentioned
in the Book. It is only a second—class mention, to
be sure, in the Apocrypha not in the Canon, but
it sets him apart from the rest. According to the
story told in the book called the Book of Tobit,
he accompanied his master, a young man named
T-obias, who was sent by his father, Tobit, on a
long and dangerous journey. They returned to—
gether in triumph, the young man having accoma
plished his mission and acquired some useful
drugs and a rich wife while so engaged. ‘And the
young man’s dog went with him’ all the way.
This is the only friendly reference to a dog in the
whole of the Bible and “on the strength of it
Tobias has bequeathed his name to the whole
canine race. In the window the dog, a white
woolly nondescript creature, is seen frisking in
front of Tobias, as pet dogs will when taken for a

walk. ‘
Next perhaps we should look at the dog who

accompanies another return, the Return of the

Prodigal Son. Nothing is said of him in the story,
but so many artists have put him into their illuSe
trations that he may be thought to have acquired

The dog
seated on
the steps
leading up
to Apollo’s
temple at
Delphi

 

 

 

 




 

 

28 THEANIMALWORLD

March 1956

 

 

THE RSPCA AT WORK

JANUARY 1956

RSPCA INSPECTORS.

2,105 Complaints of cruelty investigated.
55 Offenders ﬁned.
44 Persons guilty of minor acts of cruelty cautioned in writing.
747 Registered cautions were administered by Inspectors.

CLASSIFICATION OF CONVICTIONS

HORSES—Working in an unﬁt state, neglecting, per—

forming operation without due care and humanity 6
CATTLE—Neglecting 1
SHEEP—Neglecting 3
PIGS—Neglecting, killing in improper manner, beating 3

i DOGS—Neglecting, killing in improper manner, tying to

horse—drawn vehicle, etc. 13
CATS—Kicking, scalding with hot water and burning

with candle 4
FOWLS—Starving, exposing for sale in an unﬁt state,

injuring with missiles 6
RABBITS—Neglecting, killing in improper manner 2
OFFENCES UNDER THE PROTECTION OF BIRDS ACT, 1954:

Being in possession of recently taken birds 2

Conﬁning birds in small cages 3

Using nets for the purpose of taking 2

Using traps for the purpose of taking 2

Injuring 1
VARIOUS OFFENCES:

Infringement of the Conveyance of Live Poultry

Order, 1919 1
Permitting in offences 3
Aiding and abetting in offences 3

TOTAL NUMBER OF CONVICTIONS 55

During JANUARY 1956, Magistrates, at the request of the
RSPCA, disqualiﬁed SEVEN persons from owning a dog or
holding a dog licence. Disqualiﬁcations were as follows:

ONE for 12 months; TWO for 2 years; ONE for 5 years; THREE

for life.

HEADQUARTERS CLINICS

N0. of animals handled:
Cats 3,408 Dogs 3,717 Misc. 664
No. of animals given emergency ﬁrst aid: 1,974

Total 7,789

PUTNEY CONVALESCENT WARD

No. of animals handled:

Cats 21 Dogs 78 Misc. 1 Total 100

NIGHT STAFF

No. of calls received: 1,111

Miles covered by ambulance in respect of urgent calls: 1,850

No. of animals rescued: 4

N o. of animals treated by veterinary surgeon: 20],

No. of complaints: 6

No. of animals given emergency ﬁrst aid: 1

N o. of animals destroyed:
Cats 84 Dogs 33

Misc. 31 Total 148

NORTH WALES UNIT

First aid cases:

Cats 20 Dogs 39 Misc. 7 Total 66
No. of animals handled by Unit:
Cats 37 Dogs 67 Misc. 5 Total 109

No. of miles covered by Unit: 2,250

AWARDS

Current awards are under review

RECORDS FOR 1954

INSPECTION
COMPLAINTS 27,790
CONVICTIONS ... ... ... 872
CAUTIONS 9,657

O

HEADQUARTERS CLINICS
No. of animals handled: 151,109

NIGHT STAFF
No. of calls: 18,849

 

 

3A3

 

 




 

30 THEANIMALWORLD

March 1956

 

The RSPCA mobilized 40 men and women, and
numerous motor vehicles, when reports from the

Thames told of

SWANS 1N DISTRESS

The ever—present problem of swans affected
by oil on the river Thames was vastly accen—
tuated one Saturday morning recently, when
an oil barge sank in the river at Nine Elms.

At 8 a.m. on that day, RSPCA Headquarters
received an urgent call for help. Large numbers of
Swans, estimated at 300, were affected, many
seriously, by the oil which had escaped from the
barge.

Headquarters, which by this time was being
inundated with telephone calls from wharves,
riverside ﬁrms, the public and the police,
immediately arranged for two members of the
staff to accompany the river police on recon,
naissance to estimate and report immediately on
the extent to which the swans, as well as many
ducks, were affected. Clinics at Southall and
Putney, as well as staff were asked to be prepared
to work the whole of the week—end if necessary.
Ambulances from the Animal Rescue League and
other Clinics and Headquarters were mobilized
with staff experienced in the handling of swans,
and were despatched to places where needed. At

least a dozen parts of the Thames were seriously
affected.

Ducks, too

Clinics staff and Inspectors to a total of about 40
worked in mid»winter temperature. They were
frequently soaked in oil and were covered with
mud; all took risks to catch affected swans by
struggling through mud, which in parts was at
least 5 ft. deep. Time and time again, the rescue
staff returned to duty after brief visits to Head’
quarters for change of clothing.

Nearly 170 swans and ducks were caught and
taken for cleaning, but many of the ducks and
a few swans were so badly affected that on the
advice of a veterinary surgeon, these unfortunate
creatures were given a merciful end.

Birds had to be kept for about a fortnight after
cleaning, so that the natural oil could be restored;
they were then liberated on a clean stretch of the
river.

Between 30 and 40 tufted ducks, affected
by the oil, ﬂew from the Thames to the
Round Pond, Kensington, and reports of the
arrival of ducks and swans were received by
Headquarters from places as far away as the
Welsh Harp, Hendon, and at Chingford.
These birds together with those elsewhere
had the attention of local Inspector‘s.

 

Photo]

The scene at the RSPCA Putney Clinic during cleaning

 

[Courtesy Fox Photos

 

 

RSPCA ACHIEVEMENTS
Thanks to the efforts of the local RSPCA

Inspectors—— .
Grantham, Bilston and Penkridge markets now
provide straw for calves.

At Braintree market the pig and Sheep pens
have been covered with a permanent steel and
asbestos sheeted roof, giving adequate protection

to 600 animals both in summer and in winter.
At Whitehaven, sawdust has been replaced by
straw for the bedding down of calves.

BLIZZARD VICTIMS

Senior Inspector Grant gave help to no less than
ﬁve seagulls forced down in his area (Grimsby)
by Stormy weather.




 

32 THEANIMAL WORLD

MASOMO KATIKA

Mrs. Isobel Slater, Organizing Secretary of the
‘ RSPCA Tanganyika Branch, has sent a book
in Swahili and English on Education in animal
welfare with the Swahili title “Masomo Katika
Kutunza Wanyama Wetu”.

The book was prepared by Mrs. Slater for
distribution to schools in the Branch area.

DENMARK LEADS THE WAY

Some interesting comparisons—to the advantage
of Denmark—are made in a report prepared by
Senior Inspector Pennell, who recently travelled
to Denmark in a boat carrying ponies and vanners
from England to Denmark.

Odense market, though built in 1911, was
far better equipped and designed than any
market he had seen in England. Very spacious,
it is completely covered and apparently
draught proof. Every exposed surface is
whitewashed, including the stockyard rails;
there is a special enclosed section for in—calf
cows, and another for calves running with the
cow. The pig section, with special slatted con—
tainers for piglets was “a delight to see”.

Cleanliness

In Copenhagen the cleanliness of the slaughter—
house was notable and the comparison with
certain slaughter—houses in this country was in,
vidious. .

Within a short time Denmark is likely to fall
into line with other Scandinavian countries in

March 1956

‘

requiring electrical stunning of animals prior to
ritual slaughter.

It is an offence in Denmark to allow a dog to
roam unaccompanied in the streets of any of the
larger towns.

 

Mrs Hollingsworth, Secretary-Inspector of the RSPCA
Mombasa Branch, is photographed with a young dik dik
which was knocked over by a lorry and brought to her for
ﬁrst aid. The animal soon recovered and was given freedom.
The Branch ambulance will be seen in the background

 

PERFORMING ANIMALS
RSPCA Views Publicized

The RSPCA has enjoyed some success recently
in obtaining a wide hearing for its views against
the training and exhibitiOn of performing animals.

The popular BBC programme ‘Any Ques—
tions’ quoted the view that the RSPCA is
strongly opposed to exhibitions or presentations
of any description in which animals are required
to perform tricks or actions contrary to their
natural inclination or habits, or are the result of
cruel training.

The RSPCA was not (continued this com—
ment) opposed to circuses, as such, but to the
trained animal performances that are included in
circus programmes. For very many years the
Society has been conducting a Vigorous campaign
in connection with this matter. Obviously, the
ﬁnal answer must lie in legislation. On several
occasions, the Society has supported Bills in
Parliament dealing with the subject. The Society
very much hopes that a suitable Bill will be re—
introduced when it will receive the strongest

backing of the RSPCA.

 

Periodical
The N ew Statesman and Nation recently published
a letter signed ‘Faith Jaques’ who argued that
wild animals carried out unnatural tricks because
planks and tightropes took the places of trees,
and stool of rocks.

The Chief Secretary of the RSPCA wrote
a letter which was published in that periodical,
and asked: could Faith Jaques also expect us to
believe that a wild animal goes through such per,
formances willingly, whether or not he feels
inclined to do them? Surely, it is the timing of
the performances, and the fact that the audience
must be shown the trick to the minute, that must
bring about coercion and the likelihood of
cruelty.

I would remind your readers (said the Chief
Secretary in his letter) of a recent incident when,
according to a Press report, one member of a
troupe of performing bears refused to do his
trick and the trainer tried to force him to per—
form, but had to abandon his efforts when the
audience cried ‘Shame’. Would Faith Jaques have
us believe that no such scenes take place out of

sight of the audience? If so, may I draw her atten—

 

 

 

 




 

34 THEANIMALWORLD

March 1956

 

 

BIRDS AND HOLIDAYS

The RSPCA had numerous inquiries for
advice following a statement made by Mr.
Abby, Secretary of the World Budgerigar
Society, in an interview transmitted by the
BBC recently. . -

Mr. Abby said that a budgerigar owner could
go away for two weeks and leave his bird at home
provided that a couple of inches of seed and a
bowl of water were left. The RSPCA has
pointed out to Mr. Abby that water left in this
way—particularly in summer—would evaporate
and food was likely to be fouled. When this was
pointed out by the RSPCA to Mr. Abby, he
agreed that this statement might be misleading.
He accepted the RSPCA View that no one
should ever go away on holiday without making
provision for the care of budgerigars, as of any
' other pet.

Food and water should not be left for a
period; it might go bad, he knocked over, or
be destroyed in other ways. Regular attention
is essential, and the RSPCA knows of
instances where owners of budgerigars have

been so attached to their birds that, rather
than leave them with strangers, they have
denied themselves holidays.

UNDERSTANDING

Paying a tribute to one of the RSPCA School
Lecturers who visited his school,‘the Headmaster
wrote recently to RSPCA Headquarters ‘It
is rare that we get an outside lecturer who really ,
understands the children and who establishes that
contact so necessary in talking on such a subject
as Kindness to Animals’.

Since the last report 108 lectures were given in
schools in Lancashire, Wiltshire, Glamorgan,
Gloucestershire, Bedfordshire, Surrey, Harro—
gate, Hatfield, Maidstone and the London area.
Talks were also given to Bromsgrove Scouts and
Guides, an Animal Defender group in SW18,
the Cheltenham Animal Defender group, the
East Hounslow Young Communicants Fellow»
ship and a children’s meeting in a Tottenham
Library.

'12 new Animal Defender groups were formed;
314 children joined the Headquarters Group.

 

BRANCH NEWS

Inspector Har-
fleet’s Standard
Poodle Tiki
collected

£6 85. 6d. at
Rothbury and
later collected
:6! l5$. in one
hour at
Allendale

 

Berkshire—Newbury and District Miss Hall organized a
whist drive at Newbury Borough Council Chambers and
raised £6 103.

Buckinghamshire Mrs. Tew, Newport Pagnell Aux hon.
sec., reports that a competition raised £43, made up of these
sums: Mrs. R. Siggs, Haversham Aux. hon. sec., £2 55. 6d.;
Mrs. Butler, Wolverton, £3 75.; Mrs. Claridge, New Brad-
well, £5 1s. 3d.

The £32 63. 3d. from Newport Pagnell Auxiliary was made
up by a personal donation from Mrs. Tew to make £35 for
the clinic in British Guiana.

Caernarvonshire—Llandudno and District Miss M. Unwin,
Branch hon. sec., reports that Mrs. F. Brotherton, with the
' help of ﬁve others, organized a Christmas Market and raised
£50 for the North Wales Mobile Unit.

Caernarvonshire West and Anglesey An RSPCA ﬁlm,
Witness for the Defenceless, was shown at the Empire Cinema,
Holyhead, and Mrs. Lowcock, Holyhead Aux. hon. sec.,
» collected £14 4s. 6d. for Branch funds.

Miss Price, Branch hon. joint sec., organized a jumble
sale and whist drive and raised £9 43. 4d. for Branch funds.
Cardiff and District Mrs. H. 'W. Ainsworth, Branch hon.
secretary, reports that the dinner-dance raised £57 8s. 6d.
Coventry and District Mrs. Tremlett, Nuneaton Auxiliary
hon. sec., reports that Mr. and Mrs. Squance organized a

dance at the Chase Hotel, Nuneaton, and raised £10 185.
for Branch funds.

Cumberland—North and East Mr. Letheren, Harker and
Houghton Aux. hon. sec., and Mr. Elliott helped at a ﬁlm
show organized by Mrs. Holt. Mrs. Kinmont, Penrith Aux.
hon. sec., was present.

Doncaster and District Branch Mr. Morrison, Branch hon.
secretary, reports that a Christmas effort organized by Mrs.
Morrison, Branch chairman, raised nearly £50 for Branch
funds. The effort took the form of a collection with an
attractive nativity scene.

Essex——Mid, Brentwood, Chelmsford, Romford and District
Mrs. Elizabeth Wall, Wickford Aux. hon sec., reports that
a dance organized by Mrs. B. Walter at the Women’s Insti-
ttautedHall, West Hanningﬁeld, raised about £8 for Branch
un s.

Essex—South, Southend and District A Christmas effort
organized by Canvey Auxiliary raised £23 95. 6d.

Furness and Barrow Mr. Chadwick, Barrow-in-Furness
Aux. chairman, addressed the Ireleth—in-Furness Christian
Guild on the Society’s history. -
Glamorgan—Mid and Port Talbot Porthcawl Auxiliary
organized a Christmas effort and raised £46.
Hampshire—Southampton and District Mr J. S. Hempstead,
hon. sec. animal defender groups, organized an Animal
Defender’s Party at Bitterne School Hall.
Hampshire—South and Portsmouth Mrs. K. Turner, Park
Gate Aux. hon. sec., reports that an Animal Defender
concert, in the form of a talent competition, was held at the
Memorial Hall, Park Gate, and £7 was raised for Branch
un s.

Hertfordshire—East Miss N. Burdock reports that Walk-
ern Auxiliary organized a whist drive and raised £29 for
Branch funds.

Kent—Ashford and District A Christmas effort raised £180
for Branch funds.

Kettering, Thrapston and Wellingborough Mrs A. Davis,
Corby Aux. hon. sec., reports that an effort raised £8 ls. 6d.
for Branch funds.

Macclesﬁeld, South-East Cheshire and Buxton The Rev.
H. L. Williams, Branch Chairman and Council Member,
spoke at a meeting of the “Women’s Institute” held in

 

 

 




 

36 THEANIMALWORLD

CHRISTMAS MARKET: SEYMOUR
HALL

A net proﬁt of over £4,322 was raised for RSPCA funds by
a Christmas market, organized by Headquarters, and held
in the Seymour Hall, London.

Amounts raised by the various branches, auxiliaries and
clinics participating were :—-—-

£ 5. d.
Headquarters . 1,327 12 6
*Animal War Memorial Dispensary 213 16 6
St. John Partridge Memorial Clinic 307 18 l
Putney & Barnes Clinics ..; 139 12 6
Mayhew Home 44 19 0
South Harrow Clinic 27 5 3
BirdFund. 219 7 9
Overseas Fund... 205 1 8
Animal Rescue League 98 O 5
Bermondsey Clinic 25 10 6
Bethnal Green Clinic 32 6 6
Balham Clinic... 31 ‘0 9
*Animal Aid & Welfare Club 95 10 4
Bow Clinic 56 6 8
Sister Mabel’s Dispensary 3 9 O
Ealing & Hanwell Shelter 31 10 6
Essex S.W. Branch 20 2 O
Surrey—Woking Branch 39 16 O
Chiswick Branch 80 2 5
Kensington Auxiliary . .. 99 2 11
North Finchley, East Finchley and Church .

End 57 14 2
Forest Hill and Sydenham Branch 133 19 2
Wandsworth Common Auxiliary 73 5 O
BarnetBranch... 86 O 11
Wimbledon Branch 94 14 9

, , (Battersea Animal Welfare

Centre) ‘ 43 8 1
Highgate Branch 112 11 4
Golders Green Auxiliary 169 1 11
Thornton Heath Auxiliary 145 O 9
Streatham, Brixton & Clapham Branch 73 15 O
*Paddington Auxiliary 247 10 7
Harold Hill Clinic 15 18 2
Hemel Hempstead Clinic 52 7 O
Knightsbridge Auxiliary 3‘23 4 6
Crystal Palace Branch . .. 81 8 3
Marylebone Auxiliary 43 10 O
Balham & Tooting Branch 82 10 7
Richmond Branch 107 13 4
Windsor Branch 20 O O
Ealing Branch 20 12 6

* Includes small amount raised at a local sale following

the 1Christmas Market (Sale of surplus goods from Seymour
Hal ).

 

FLAG DAY
GOODS

Celluloid Buttons

LIST ON APPLICATION

THE UNIVERSAL BUTTON CO. LTD.

1-9 Birkbeck Street, Bethnal Green, LONDON, E23
Telephone: . BIShopsgate 5750

Telegrams: ‘Unibutco Edo’

 

 

 

March 1956

USED POSTAGE STAMPS

From time to time RSPCA Headquarters receives inquiries
as to whether used postage stamps are of any value. They are
of value if they can be collected in sufﬁcient quantities, but
Branches and/ or Animal Defender Groups should deal
direct with the Stamp Dealer since to send packages of used
stamps to Headquarters negatives the effort in View of the
additional carriage and handling which is required.

The RSPCA has received a quotation from Mr Ronald A.
Brittain, 41 Costons Lane, Greenford, Middlesex. Tel:
Waxlow 2658, who, at the time of writing, was prepared
to offer terms as follows:

(1) A minimum of 15. 6d. per lb. for Gt. Britain and 55.
for Foreign and Colonial, the latter subject to quality.
Eire: 3s. per lb.

(2) Stamps to be dispatched if collected in sufficient
quantities in sacks of 50 lb. per British Road Services or best
available transport, carriage to his account.

Mr Brittain also mentions the following points:

(a) All common stamps of Gt. Britain from letters and
parcels, especially from ofﬁces, etc., are required.

(1)) The stamps should be torn off envelopes leaving a
small margin of paper in order not to damage the stamps.

(c) Foreign stamps should be kept separate.

(d) Stamps should be taken to Branches whenever possible
(in order to obviate writing letters of acknowledgment).

Any Branch or Group which contemplates organizing the
collection of used postage stamps is advised to contact Mr
Brittain before commencing the effort in order to conﬁrm
the terms he is willing to offer and the conditions under
which he is prepared to accept consignments of stamps.

It is again emphasized that Headquarters cannot handle
stamps on behalf of Branches or Institutions.

 

 

 

TEMPLE COX CAPTIVE
BOLT SLAUGHTE'RING
GUNS

Specially recommended and used by the RSPCA

THREE MODELS—ALL SILENT IN
ACTION

‘UNIVERSAL’ for all animals
‘SMALLS’ for all small animals
‘MARK 6’ for all animals. Designed for heavy

use in large Abattoirs and Freezing Works

 

TEMPLE COX DEVELOPMENT CO. LTD
HIGH STREET, BROMLEY, KENT

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




,LONDON JOINT ANIMAL FLAG DAY

SATURDAY
JUNE 2

‘Please help!’

HOW TO HELP

By making a street collection in the Metropolitan Police area (London

and Suburbs) on JUNE. 2.

By making a house to house collection in London (and Suburbs)

between MAY 27 and JUNE 2 (inclusive)

By placing tins and emblems in shops and business premises.

By making a private collection amongst relatives and friends, even

if you do not live in the London area.
By sending a donation.

By sending the names and addresses of friends Who
are prepared to collect.

N.B.——-No one under the age of 18 is permitted to col—
lect either in the street or from house to house in
the LONDON area. It is, however, sometimes
possible for young people to make private col»
lections amongst relatives and friends.

Offers of help, please, to:
RSPCA, Appeals Department,
|05 Jermyn Street, London, SWI

 

 

‘ 5““ 1

“‘ Huh; .\ ' Wills
V J

go, \\ wgﬁ‘ . \
(I: /// 734:, '
ﬂj/ﬂ/Ja ..
”//// \u v.9",
(“Illa/xi” i?"

/’ \L‘K ‘E/C/IE 15%;?)

’// ////// r

5 ////
llﬁlllmmlllwﬂw

‘ Thank you!

I was sure
you’d help!’

 

Printed by Shenval Press, Simson Shand Ltd. London, Hertford and Harlow, and
published by Arthur W. Moss for the RSPCA at 105 Jermyn Street, London, SW1

 

 

 

 




