 

 

 

195 3 WINNER: Jackie (lion), M. G.M. , "Fearless Fagan. ”

SECOND PLACE: Bonzo (chimp): Universal Interna-
tional Pictures, "Bonzo Goes to College. " THIRD PLACE: Trigger
(horse), Paramount Pictures Corp. , ”Son of Paleface. " CRAVEN
AWARD: Bracket (jumping horse), owned by Hudkins Stables.
AWARDS OF EXCELLENCE: Francis (mule), ”Francis Goes to
Westpoint,” Universal-International Pictures; Tramp, Jr. (dog),
”Room for One More," Warner Bros. Pictures; Cheta (chimp),
"Tarzan's Savage Fury, " Sol Lesser Productions; Chinook (dog),
”Yukon Gold, " Wm. F. Broidy Productions.

1954 WINNER: Sam (dog), Wayne-Fellows Productions,
”Hondo. ” SECOND PLACE: Francis (mule), Univer-

sal International Pictures , “Francis Covers the Big Town. " THIRD
PLACE: Jackie (lion), R.K. O. Radio Pictures, Inc. , ”Androcles

 

- and The Lion. " CRAVEN AWARD: Cocaine (falling horse), Chuck

Roberson, owner-trainer. AWARDS OF EXCELLENCE: Baron
(Great Dane dog — Wapi), ”Back to God's Country, "Universal In-
ternational Pictures; Peggy (chimp-Tamba), "Valley of the Head-
hunters," Esskay Productions (Columbia); Jackie (lion), "White
Witch Doctor, " Twentieth Century-Fox Productions.

1955 WINNER: Gypsy (horse), M.G.M. Studios, "Gypsy

Colt. ” SECOND PLACE: Francis (mule), Univer-
sal International Pictures, "Francis Joins the WAC's.” THIRD
PLACE: Esmeralda (seal), Walt Disney Productions, "20,000
Leagues Under the Sea. ” CRAVEN AWARD: Flash (falling horse
and lay-down horse), Henry Wills, owner-trainer. AWARDS OF
EXCELLENCE: Shep (dog), ”A Bullet is Waiting, ”Howard Welsch
Productions; Satin (tiger), ”Demetrius and the Gladiator, " Twen-
tiethCentury-Fox Films; Outlaw (horse), "Black Horse Canyon, ”
Universal-International Pictures; Beauty (horse), ”Outlaw Stal-
lion, ” Columbia Pictures Corp.

 

 

15‘

 




 




 

 

 

Gradually there develop-
ed most cordial relations be-
tween the studios and the AHA,
and today AHA approval is a
vital factor in every picture
in which animals appear . The
Association maintains a staff
of representatives who go on
location wherever pictures are
being made.

ANIMALS ARE ACTORS

Animals are now recog-
nized as characters and prin-
cipals in motion pictures and
on television -- much to the
delight of audiences every—
where. No longer are they
added merely for scenic ef-
fects or as adjuncts to human
actors , thanks to the men who

RICHARD C.

 

CRAVEN

have come forward to bring out the intelligence of animals, not
by means of the brutal whip, but by careful schooling processes .

With the growing importance of movie animals came sug—
gestions that there should be "Oscars” for animals. The AHA

.PATSY award gradually evolved, with the first presentations

made in 1951. In 1958 a duplicate set of awards was created ex—
clusively for animals in television.

@Q M

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

vision Star of the Year. The first TV awards were made in 1958
with "Lassie" voted topTV animal performer. '

Any animal which has a part in afeature-length motion picture
produced under The American Humane Association's supervision
is eligible for the PATSY, as is any animal appearing on television
whose handling meets AHA standards. Voters consider the ani-
mal's performance, difficulty of the part, expertness of the per—
formance, and the proper humane use of animals. Any evidence
of cruelty or brutality disqualifies the animal and the producer
from consideration.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

IFIR.ST TV PATSY AWARD went to Lassie, shown here with owner-
trainer Rudd Weatherwax, left, Roy Rogers and Jon Provost.

9

 




 

r ____.h\ A“

 

 

 

The

AMERICAN HUMANE ASSOCIATION

# P A T 5 Y
r a, 5

Picture Animal Top Star of the Year

 

Performing Animal Television Star of the Year

ANNUAL AWARD
FOR
OUTSTANDING ACHIEVENTENT

 

 




 

here wi

RICHARD C
ann1

versary 1

'n show b

01
118111

ess at the sa

the t

‘v.
v.

me.

I observedh

rlgger,

th Roy Rogers .

C

neldentally ,

Tri

wen
i: 1

(3

i

881

Iver

. CRAVEN AWARD in 1958

t

toT

shown

 

 

 

 




 

Ehe i956 awards were made

in simple presentations at each of the
winning studios .

A chuck wagon luncheon was a

highlight of the seventh annual PATSY
Awards, held at the Glenn

Randall Training Ring in North Hollywood,
where more than one —hundred

people from the motion picture in-
dustry were guests of the

AHA at luncheon prior to the ceremony.

The 8th annual acting awards

were also presented at the Glenn Ran-

dall Training Ring, with

more than 200 film stars, studio and tv ex—
ecutives, trainers and hand—

lers there {or the presentations.

Creation of the PATSY Awards

was spurred by the logic that animals
should be recognized for the

very important part they play in making mo—
tion picture and television pro-

ductions highly successful and enter-
taining .

 

VVVVV

    
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   




 

 

 

 

 

THE MPAA PRODUCTION CODE

The Motion Picture Association of America Production Code
states: "In the production of motion pictures involving animals,
the producer shall consult with the authorized representative of
The American Humane Association, and invite him to be present
during the staging of such animal action. There shall be no use
of any contrivance or apparatus for tripping or otherwise treating
animals in an unacceptably harsh manner. "

AHA staff members provide consultative service on sug-
gested scripts, humane supervision of the use of animals in keep-
ing with MPAA code specifications and suggestions on the proper
handling of animals which will be acceptable to the humane-minded
public. The AHA provides this uniform service and supervision
wherever it is needed, regardless of state or municipal boundaries .

 

l7

 

 




 

 

 

The AHA is concerned with all forms of cruelty and all as—
pects of humane work. Thus, member societies of the AHA in-
clude societies for the prevention of cruelty to children as well as
societies for the prevention of cruelty to animals. It includes so-
cieties primarily concerned with the rescue of children and ani-
mals from suffering; it also includes organizations that concen-
trate on humane education.

The AHAmaintains a national field staff anda headquarters
staff that include experts on protection of children, domestic pets,
agricultural animals and wildlife. An education and editorial staff
and special national committees work with educators and parents'
organizations at many levels to further humane education. The
Association publishes The National Humane Review, a magazine
that is the recognized_ voice of the national humane movement,
several smaller periodicals, and many leaflets and booklets on a
great diversity of subjects fr oma one page leaflet on "How to Care
for a Cat, " to a 217 page book on "Child Protective Services in

the United States . "

 

The financial structure of the AHA is simple. The Associa-
tion is supported entirely by philanthropic gifts and contributions
fr om its friends. The AHA receives only a nominal annual affil-
iation fee from state and local societies. The societies ‘are not
asked to shoulder the financial burden of AHA work; instead, the
Association spends a large part of its income to help the hundreds
of local societies. The Association seeks a vast number of new
contributor s .

A gift to The American Humane As s ociation goes to the heart

of humane work. Without this heart the humane societies of Amer-
ica could not be the national force for good that they now are.

" ‘ ,If'bzzF-L‘ .

 




 

Foreword...

 

The humane movement involves more than
prevention of cruelty and rescue work. It is a sys-
tem -- at times concrete, at other times a bit in-
tangible -- which exemplifies the American ethic
as set forth on July 4, 1776.

Impressing upon a young child today the im-
portance of treating animals with kindness; remov—
ing a child today fr om a situation involving neglect,
immorality, hunger and homelessness: these are

the actions that provide insurance for the future of
our nation.

The story of The American Humane Associa-
tion is vast and complex. It is the story of your
own local society, repeated many times, in every
part of the nation. This small volume is designed
to provide information on one interesting phase 015
the humane movement, the AHA PATSY Awards.
For those who are interested, a companion booklet,

available on request, fully describes the activities
of the AHA Hollywood Office.

N‘

 

 




 

 

 

 

The work of The American Humane Association in Holly—
wood was born in the late 1930's as a result of public outrage

against the abuse of animals to obtain spectacular scenes in rno-
tion pictures .

The late Richard C. Craven, AHA'S first western Regional
Director, was sent to Hollywood to represent humane organiza»
tions in matters connected with the treatment of animals used
in making motion pictures. In 1940 he succeeded in effecting an ‘
agreement that an AHA representative should be regarded as the i
judge in all matters connected with the use of animals, and ”shall '

be invited by the producer to all studio sets and locations where
animals are being used. "

4

  

 




 

 

ANIMAIS‘

TAKE m

Ital/wood
spof/ig/z/f

The American Humane Association created an award in 1951
to recognize noteworthy performances by animals in motion pic-
tures . The Western Regional staff of the AHA worked cooperative-
ly with motion picture representatives over a period of several

years and the PATSY Award was the ultimate result: an honor for '

the Picture Animal Top Star of the Year.

From the beginning it' was obvious that the selection of the
winners had to be done in an unbiased manner and by persons who
were in aposition to vote intelligently for the top animal perform-
ances. Accordingly, the voting was put into the hands of the cin—
ema press. Each year the AHA sends ballots to writers, editors
and critics throughout the nation to determine the winner of the
coveted PATSY Awardandthe second and third place animal stars.

Additional certificates of excellence are made when the vote
indicates deserving performances.

In addition to the PATSY Awards, there is a special Richard

C. Craven Award given to any type of animal which ordinarily has
6

 

 

 




no opportunity for a starring role but which excels in training; out-
standing talent, abilities and is humanely handled. This includes
specialty action (falling, rearing, jumping, ”fighting", etc.) and
sustaining action.

 

After seven years of PATSY Awards, The American Humane
Association authorized an additional identical set of awards to be i
'made for animal action in television: the Performing Animal Tele-

. \

 

 

 

FRANCIS the talking mule, shown here with Donald O'Connor, in
1951 walked away with the first top PATSY Award.

 

 

 




 

 

W» ,,_ _« _—“"‘.-'—‘————-—w~—-——~—~_..m._mnw“ A,

 

 

FIRST PLACE-Photo on front cover

The PATSY is a trophy nearly three feet in height, topped by a Winged victory and
bearing the inscription, ”The American Humane Association] - Annual Award for Out-
standing Achievement in Motion Pictures (or Television)".

Each year the name of the PATSY winner is inscribed on a gold plate attached to the
base of the trophy. The PATSY remains in the hands of the producing company until the
following year when it is passed on to the next winner, and is replaced with a permanent
walnut plaque bearing a replica of the large trophy.

SECOND and THIRD PLACE

Second and third placefhiwards consist of a walnut plaque, identical to the permanent
PATSY, suitably engrajsd for the class of award.

 

CRAVEN AWARD

J “est-3:414 A

I A fourteen-inch walnut plaque, known as the Richard C. Craven Award, is given to an animal that ordinarily
has no opportunity for a starring role°

10

“hit

11

44'. A- A

 




 

The Firm T100

9ng Hmard

ceremonies were
held at Carthay Circle Theatre
in Los Angeles, with
most of the outstanding animals who
worked in pictures present
for thousands of people to see
first hand. Studio per-
sonnel, including executives, actors
and actresses participated.
Jimmy Stewart presented the
first AHA PATSY A—
ward, assisted by Diana Lynn, Leo
Carillo, Rex Allen and other

film luminaries .

For the next three years,
1953-55, the PATSY Awards moved

outdoors to Devonshire

Downs Fairgrounds at North-
ridge, where thousands

thrilledto see thelworld's greatest and
finest collection of motion

picture animals; to see awards

made to the top perform—

ers of the previous year; and to wit- .

ness ashow onthe track by
stuntmen and women of the in-
dustry.
12

i 44 44“_ A gccﬁwﬁr—o—q—ml A

 

 

 




PRTSY

 

 

21951-19589

  
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
  

‘95] WINNER: Francis (mule), Universal-International

Pictures, "Francis." SECOND PLACE: California
(horse), Columbia Pictures Corp., "The Palomino." THIRD
PLACE: Pierre (chimp), Hal Wallis Production (Paramount),

 

(falling horse), owned and trained by Ace Hudkins. AWARDS OF
EXCELLENCE: Flame (dog), "My Pal" series, R.K.O. Radio
Pictures, Inc.; Lassie (dog), "Challenge of Lassie," M.G.M.;
Black Diamond (horse), "Black Midnight, " Lindsle}r Parsons Prod.
for Monogram; Jackie (lion), "Samson and Delilah, “ Paramount
Pictures Corp.

 

 

1952 WINNER: Rhubarb (cat), Paramount Pictures Corp. ,

"Rhubarb . " SECOND PLACE: Francis(mule) , Univer-
sal International, "Francis Goes to the Races. " THIRD PLACE:
Cheta (chimp), Sol Lesser Productions, "Tarzan‘s Peril. " CRA-
VEN AWARD: Smoky (fighting stallion), owned and trained by Fat
Jones. AWARDS OF EXCELLENCE: Chinook (dog), "Yukon Man-
hunt, "Monogram Pictures; Diamond (horse), ”Flame of Araby, "
Universal-International Pictures; CorkX (dog), "Behave Your-
self, " Wald-Krasna Production (R.K. O.)

14

 

»—~~—--—'—~—-m——‘:—‘~;',—‘—~‘~“' —-'—"“‘~‘——m

nwans

"My Friend Irma Goes West." CRAVEN AWARD: Jerry Brown _

 

 




 

ww...———V—.-—w—-—v-—-—~__.v

1956 WINNER: Wildfire (dog). M.G.M. Studios, "It's a
Dog'sLife." SECOND PLACE: Francis (mule), Uni-

versal International Pictures, "Francis Joins the Navy. ” THIRD‘

PLACE: Faro (dog), Hecht-Lancaster Production, "The Kentuck-
ian. " CRAVEN AWARD: Flame (dog), owned and trained by Frank

Barnes .

1957 WINNER: Samantha (goose), Allied Artists Produc-

tions, "Friendly Persuasion. " SECOND PLACE: War
Winds (horse), Warner Bros. Pictures, "Giant, " THIRD PLACE:
Francis (mule), Universal-International Pictures, "Francis inthe
HauntedHouse. " CRAVEN AWARD: King Cotton (horse), owner-
trainer Ralph McCutcheon. AWARDS OF EXCELLENCE: Silver
(horse), "The Lone Ranger, " Warner Bros. Pictures; Lady (dog),
"Goodbye, My Lady, " Batjac Productions; Bascom (Great Dane
dog), "Hollywood or Bust, " Paramount Pictures .

1958 WINNER (Motion Picture category): Spike (dog): Walt
Disney Productions, "Old Yeller." WINNER (Tele-
vision category): Lassie (dog), Jack Wrather Prods., "Lassie"
series. SECOND PLACE (M.P.): Beauty (horse), Paramount
Pictures Corp., ”Wild is the Wind." SECOND PLACE (T.V.):
Cleo (dog), Norden Productions, "The People's Choice. " THIRD
PLACE (M.P.): Kelly (dog), Universal-International Pictures,
”Kelly and Me. " THIRD PLACE (T.V.): Rin-Tin-Tin(d0g), Her-
bert B. Leonard Prods. , ”Adventures of Rin-Tin-Tin. " CRAVEN
AWARD: Trigger (horse), owned by Roy Rogers and trained by
Glenn Randall. AWARDS OF EXCELLENCE: (M.P.) Tony (the
wonder horse), ”Hoofs & Goofs, " Columbia Pictures Corp. (short).
(T.V.) Flicka (horse), “My Friend, Flicka, " Twentieth Century
Fox T.V. Productions.
16

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

Nantane

ﬁfnvement

The PATSY Award is a colorful annual event which focuses
public attention on the day by day working relationship between the
motion picture and television producers and the AHA. Certainly
this phase of the humane movement seems exciting and glamorous ,

although in actual practice it is just another job that needs to be
done.

There is more -- much more '3'- to the humane story. High
on capitol hill in Denver, Colorado, is the heart of the American

humane movement, the headquarters of The American Humane
Association.

The AHA is a federation of more than 500 organizations in
the United States that are dedicated to the protection of children

and animals and to the propagation of the humane ethic in all parts
of American life.

The Association organizes new humane societies, advises
and materially helps established societies, works constantly to
elevate the standards of humane work, speaks for the united hu-
mane movement in national affairs .

18

 

 

 

 




 

Prepared by"
The Anxerican Humane Association

Public Relations Department
896 Pennsylvania Street
Denver 3, Colorado

 




