 

 

 

 

 

 

Coventry Saturday, October 18

October1958 THE ANIMAL WORLD 119
£ 5. 61. £ 5. d. £ 5. d.
Ecchinswell, Miss M. J. Holman (aux hon sec) 8 17 O Saundersfoot 1O 14 O
Thatcham (South Side), Mrs Q. M Davis Villages 17 19 2
(aux hon sec)... 5 8 2 132 1 31;
Cold Ash and Hermitage, Mrs S. Baker (aux . ———————
hon sec) 20 O 8 Total for Pembrokeshire County £335 14 4%
Leckhampstead, Mrs D Matthews (aux hon ~———————
sec) .h 11 8 O
Compton, Mrs M. C. Witcombe (aux on sec) 6 9 3
East Ilsley, Mrs E. A. M Wells (aux hon sec) 3 15 O MONMOUTHSHIRE COUNTY FLAG
West Ilsley, Mrs O. Clarke (aux hon sec) 1 9 3 DAY
Kailggfgrgﬁizi: EMMIonlagidﬁallxxhhognsseecg)... 353; 1(3) (3) District results reported by Mrs A. E. Jones, Branch
Highclere, Mrs H. S. W’ilson (aux hon sec)... 5 1 8 hon sec £ 5 d
School Collections 16 7 8 Pontypool 98 O O
St Mellons 12 7 6
£192 17 1 Llanwern 1 15 O
Caerleon 6 3 2
Rogerstone . . 11 9 O
SURREY JOINT ANIMAL FLAG DAY Usk and Raglan 3 6 7
° - - Abergavenny 78 9 6
Amounts were collected by part1c1pat1ng RSPCA Bganghecsi: Abertillery . .. . . . .. . . . . 9 7 6
*Alton, Haslemere, Petersﬁeld and District... 155 4 10 Blackwood 40 O O
*Hants and Surrey Border 405 O 7 Cwm 15 10 6
Surrey—East .. 640 1 8 Undy 10 3 7
*Surrey—Epsom and District 65 15 10 Cwmbran 17 10 O
TSurrey—Guildford and District . . . . . . 311 4 6
*Surrey—Kingston, Surbiton, District and £304 2 4
South Middlesex 21 14 6
*Surrey—Purley and District . .. 7O 5 8
Surrey—Weybridge 163 7 3 ANGLESEY
Surrey—Woking and District 221 11 11 D' t . 11 .
*Windsor, Eton, Slough, Staines and Uxbridge 3 1 0 S “Ct CO ect1ons. £ 5 (1
£2 057 7 9 Holyhead, Mrs A Lowcock (aux hon sec). 48 2 3
’ Valley, Miss A. Smith 8 11 1
* — Trearddur Bay, Mrs B. Bradley (aux hon sec): 9 7 4
T Biilhodtinif3131]:Bglrdggiudgeétgdeit5¢EUIary area only Amlwch, Mrs W R. Jones (aux hon sec) 14 4 2
Cemaes Bay, Mrs Williams (aux hon sec) 8 9 3
Beaumaris, Mrs Anderson 10 9 1
HAILSHAM RURAL DISTRICT FLAG Menai Bridge, Miss Lloyd 3 O 7
DAY Llanfair P. (3., Mrs Boxer Morris 5 13 O
B , M P t .. 1 11
Collections for the Sussex—Mid and Eastbourne Branch. Lfgggéiécyﬁhs Jrosne: ers 2 5 1
£ 5,. d, Llandegfan, Mrs Davies and Miss Gwen Davies 1 18 3
Hailsham and Hellingly, Mrs Adshead (aux Rhosneigr, Mrs B. M. Owen (aux hon sec)“ 14 0 1
hon sec) 20 17 7 Bodedern, Mrs Grifﬁths (aux hon sec) 2 10 O
Heathﬁeld, Mrs D P Lloyd Jones (aux hon Benllech, Miss M S. Price (aux hon sec) 9 13 8
sec) . . 45 2 11 Miscellaneous 25 12 7
Horam, Mrs Roy Watson (aux hon sec) 36 17 O
Herstmonceux, Miss K. Gough (aux hon sec) 14 6 11 £165 8 0
Laughton, Miss Spring 3 13 6
Westham and Pevensey, Miss Lawson (aux 5
hon sec) 1 18 5
Pevensey Bay, Mrs Baker (aux hon sec) .. 7 5 11 FORTHCOMING FLAG DAYS
Polegate, Mrs Haslett (aux hon sec).. 24 8 11 Notiﬁed up to time of going to press on August 27.
——£ 1 6 8 11'“; Bedwortb, Warwickshire Saturday, October 18

PEMBROKESHIRE COUNTY FLAG DAY

PEMBROKESHIRE—NORTH AND MID BRANCH
£ 5. 61. £ 5. (1.

Milford Haven and District 68 16 2
Haverfordwest and District 46 6 9
Fishguard 21 9 8
St Davids 6 6 1
Neyland and District 14 O O
Villages .. 46 14 5
—— £203 13 1
PEMBROKESHIRE—SOUTH BRANCH
Tenby 76 18 1
Pembroke Dock 21 17 7%-
Pembroke 4 12 5

Cowes, Isle of Wight

Dordon, Warwickshire . . .

Droitwich Spa .

Henley ——on Thames and Henley
Rural District ..

Saturday, October 4
Saturday, October 18
Saturday, October 4

Saturday, October 18

Herne Bay Saturday, October 25
Leicester Saturday, October 11
North Shields Saturday, October 11
Romsey Saturday, October 18

Rugeley, Staﬂﬂordshire
South Molton, Devon Thursday, October 9
Welwyn Rural District Saturday,O October 4

An appeal 13 made to any readers who are able to assist
these collections to communicate with their local hon secs
whose names and addresses will gladly be provided by
RSPCA Headquarters.

Saturday, October 25

 




 

 

 

October 1958

HUSKIES AT SEA

Character Studies of ‘My Children!’

Mr H. A. Hardman who accompanied the
Antarctic huskies to Norway contributes these
notes. .
NANOK—means Polar Bear. He maintained a
rather haughty attitude towards the others, com—
plained if he thought they were getting undue
attention, but otherwise remained rather aloof.
He was acutely conscious of the fact that the food
was housed in the adjoining kennel!

On arrival in Oslo, Nanok was the ﬁrst to be
displayed to the photographers—as, of course,
was his right! Unfortunately, at that moment, the
guns of the Castle just across the road began to
ﬁre a salute to a British frigate—poor Nanok
was scared: but it was while I soothed him that
excellent photos were taken. And he soon forgot
the beastly guns in the general fuss that was made
of him. A great baby, if ever there was one!
IVIK—behaved beautifully. Much snarling and
gnashing of teeth when the other dogs were
out, but a perfect dear in his treatment of me!
His difference in appearance from the other six
dogs is striking, and the members of the Nor—
wegian Trekkhundklubb seem specially interested
in and pleased with him. A prodigious drinker!
KERNEK—To my mind, the strongest of the
dogs, with Caesar a close second—he was
always out of his box almost before the lid was
a quarter open, and on one occasion nearly
wrenched every muscle in my back!

GUY—Dear Guy! A nervous dog. Out of his
box, he would walk a little and then stand, quite
happily doing nothing at all. Then a burst of
speed, and then another long stand: and if I then
chucked him under the chin, all was bliss indeed.

Almost always jumped unaided back into his
box. A model dog!

CAESAR—A puppy by nature—a Peter Pan
dog: the liveliest of them all, and the loudest in
complaint when I was dealing with the others.
MUTT—the ‘problem—child’ of the party.
Like a horse, he never seemed to want to lie
down: he loved being fondled, and over and over
again seemed to be trying very hard to tell me
something.

MAMO——A dear, quiet dog: the marks on his
muzzle, betokening the wrong treatment before
he left Greenland, made me treat him specially
gently. He would sit by my side on the hatches
at peace with the world.

 

Nanok, looking proudly from this month’s front cover, was
the leader of the husky team on its journey with Sir Vivian
Fuchs to the South Pole.

THE ANIMAL WORLD ' 117

A Book of Birds and Beasts by Dorothy
Margaret Stuart. Methuen. 303. .

Miss Stuart, an animal lover, hit upon the
idea of collecting references to animals (especially
dogs and horses) and birds throughout history
and stringing them together in chronological
order with literary skill and a light touch. The
result is a very nice book, handsomely produced,
with excellent illustrations, which can be recome
mended conﬁdently to all interested in animals.
Her reading was, of course, very wide and she
fortunately did not resist the temptation some—
times to include discoveries of great interest not
strictly related to the subject. The reader, there—
fore, learns much, illustrating a great variety of
walks of life. Here is an authentic case of an
animal trying to prevent what it regarded as
cruelty to children: William Harrison, in the
‘Description of England’ preﬁxed to Hollinshed’s
Chronicle, tells of a mastiff he had:

‘If I was beating any of my children, he
would gently essay to catch the rod with his
teeth and take it out of my hand or else
plucked on their clothes to save them from
the stripes.’

But Oh that anyone bearing the name Stuart
should spell the name of Thomson of The
Seasons, a Scot, twice, with a ‘p’!

R. F. R.

 

Send a stamped addressed envelope to RSPCA Head-
quarters for a ‘List of RSPCA Publications’.

 

BRANCH NEWS

(Fund-raising eﬂorts are reported under the name of the Branch-
Wherever possible, we give the place where the function was
held, the type of function, and the name of the organizer or
organizers, followed by the sum raised.)

Berkshire—Newbury and District Newbury, Pet Show,
Branch Committee, £36.

Fylde Coffee Morning, Mrs A. L. Poole (Poulton aux hon
sec), held at the historical home of Mr and Mrs Gledhlll,
Manis Hall, £70. .
Kent—Canterbury and District Whist drives, Mrs Dance
(branch hon sec), £27 143. 10d. Coffee morning, £12 1s. 2d.
Herne Bay, summer bazaar, Miss M. Michell (aux hon sec),
£64 2s. 6d.

Oxford Oxford, coffee party, Miss Size and Mrs Wat-
mough, £12 5s.

Peterborough and District Whittlesey Town Bowls Club
Tournament, £20. .
Windsor, Eton, Slough, Staines and UXbridge Hadlelgh
House, sherry party, Mrs Angus Macnaghten,_£32 103.
Wolverhampton and District Bilston,hexh1b1tion of photo-
graphs at ﬂoral fete, £13 93. 3d. _
Yorkshire—Harrogate and District Huby, coffee mornlng,
Mr and Mrs Chappell, £60 for Wetherby aux funds.

 




 

 

 

 

FLAG DAY :
GOODS i

PLASTIC BADGES

LIST 0N APPLICATION

|
|
l
THE UNIVERSAL BUTTON CO. LTD. 1

1-9 Birkbeck Street, Bethnal Green, LONDON, E.2

Telephone: BIShopsgate 5750 Telegrams: ‘Unibutco Edo’

 

 

 

FORTHCOMING EVENTS

The Canterbury and District Branch Christmas Bazaar is to be
held on November 5 at H a.m., and a stall at the Toc H Fayre

on November 29 at H a.m., both at the Baptist Hall, Canter-
bury.

Dartford Auxiliary Christmas Bazaar, 2.30 p.m., Saturday,
November 22, the Church Hall, Lowiield Street, Dartford.
Offers of help for stalls (household, calendar, plant, needle-
work, gift and white elephant) should be made to Mrs
Bradshaw, 3| Great Queen Street, Dartford, Kent.

Blessing of Animals Service, St Peters Church, Lordship Lane,
East Dulwich, London, SE22, at 3 p.m., Sat., October l8.

ANIMAL SUNDAY. Open-air service, the Abbey Grounds,
Hexham. Guest speaker, the Duchess of Grafton.

 

 

 

TEMPLE COX CAPTIVE
BOLT SLAUGHTERING
GUNS

Specially recommended and used by the RSPCA

THREE MODELS—ALL SILENT IN
ACTION

‘UNIVERSAL’ for all animals
‘SMALLS’ for all small animals
‘MARK 6’ for all animals. DesIgned for heavy

use in large Abattoirs and Freezing Works

TEMPLE COX DEVELOPMENT CO. LTD
HIGH STREET, BROMLEY, KENT

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

WY N E L G A
the humane glove

The new Nylon woven-fabric glove with a suede
ﬁnish . . . backed with Nylon fur fabric and lined
with Nylon ﬂeece

THE PRICE IS ONLY 39 6
I including Puchase Tax

POST FREE Anywhere in the Sterling Area
$6 in Dollar currency POST FREE

The ﬁrst of their kind!

Snug-ﬁtting slip-on gloves . . . fashioned by one of the leading
master cutters. Luxurious—and breathtakingly lovely,warm
and light. Showerproof. Mothproof, too, and so easy to wash!
In three shades—Cinder Grey, Beaver and Black—in sizes
6%, 7, 7% and 8.

These WYNELGA gloves are completely free of animal exploita-
tion. They open up a new chapter in the history of humane
living.

You can order by post with conﬁdence. Satisfaction is assured.
(If you are not delighted with the WYNELGA Nylon Gloves on
sight, return them immediately and your money will be re-
funded in full.)

NOTE!
SUPPLIES ARE LIMITED
ORDER NOW!

Obtainable only from, address below

COATS, FRANKLIN & COMPANY

(Sole Concessionaires throughout Gt Britain and overseas
countries)
DEPT. 9, FAXFIELD HOUSE, 28 WATLING STREET,
LONDON, EC4, ENGLAND

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

  
  
 

; IISED&TRIISTEDTHE WORlD OVER

_ SIMPLL3
; SAFE.
suns ﬁmﬂx “

CAPTIVE BOLT PISTOL
FOR ALL ANIMALS

   

1,

ACCLES AND SHELVOKE LTD ' BIRMINGHAM ' 6 ‘ ENGLAND
5456

 

 




October1958 THE ANIMAL WORLD 115

LEFT RABBIT TO SUFFER

On removing a rabbit from a hutch ln-
spector Carter found areas of fur missing
from the body and a sore the size of a
shilling on the near side of the rump. The
rabbit’s hind leg was broken and the
whole of the surrounding area was great-
ly swollen and pus was oozing from an
open festering wound. The broken bone
was protruding through the wound and it
was evident that no treatment had been
provided.

For causing the rabbit unnecessary
suffering a man and his wife were brought
before Gosport Magistrates by the
RSPCA and were each fined £3 and they
were ordered to pay a total of £5 5s.
costs. The rabbit had to be given a

humane end.
(82555)

[By courtesy of The Hampshire & Isle of Wight
Constabulary]

 

 

PONY HAD GREAT DlFFlCULTY lN STANDING

[Photo by Cardiff City Police]

 

An RSPCA lnspector visited a plot of land and saw a five-year-old bay pony lying down, but when the Inspector
approached it had great difficulty in standing. The pony had pus running from the coronet and there was a three to
four inch crack in the hoof. The animal was suffering great pain from these injuries, and there were no signs of treatment
having been given.

For failing to give the pony proper care and attention when in a suffering state, a l7-year-old youth was brought
before the Cardiff Stipendiary Magistrate by the RSPCA. On summing up the Magistrate said: ‘I find the case against
you proved, but, as you have lost your horse (the animal had to be given a humane end on the advice of a veterinary

surgeon), lthink that you have been punished enough and I am going to discharge you on condition for twelve months. . . .’
The youth was ordered to pay £5 5s. costs. (8.3053)

 




 

October 1958 _

THE ANIMAL WORLD 113

 

DROVE THROUGH HERD
OF CATTLE

A van driver, who was said to have driven through
a herd of cattle, injuring a cow so that she had to
be destroyed, appeared before the Reading Bora
ough Magistrates.

He pleaded not guilty to ‘causing unnecessary
suffering to a cow by unreasonably injuring it
with a motor vehicle’.

The Bench found the case proved and ﬁned
him £5.

Counsel prosecuting for the RSPCA asked the
Bench to pay particular attention to the words in
the charge, ‘unreasonably injuring’, because the
prosecution’s whole case rested upon them.

Some drovers were driving a herd of about
100 cattle through railway sidings. They had no
particular difficulty until a motor van, driven by
the defendant, came out of a yard next to a
grocery store.

The vehicle was driven straight into the midst
of some of the cattle, said counsel. One of the
drovers called out to defendant, but he took no
notice and the van caught a cow on the shoulder,
turning her round. The defendant continued on
in spite of further remonstrances from a drover.

The injured cow was seen to be very lame and,
after being driven to the railway sidings, was
examined by a veterinary surgeon. He found that
she was suffering from a painful injury and
ordered her to be slaughtered forthwith.

When spoken to after the incident, the dea
fendant made a statement in which he said:
1‘31 don’t know anything about it. I never struck a

eastf

‘I drove through’

Senior Inspector E. J. Temple gave evidence of a
statement made to him by the defendant, in
which he said: ‘I drove through a gap in a line of
cattle. So far as I know I did not touch any of
them or injure them in any way.’

A veterinary surgeon said the cow was quite
lame in the left foreleg and the carcass showed
evidence of extensive bruising and bleeding. The
injuries were consistent with the beast having
been struck by a motor vehicle.

On a second summons for failing to report an
accident to the police, the defendant was ﬁned

£1. Costs amounting to £15 155. were awarded
against him. (B.1955.)

 

NINE HAMSTERS SUFFOCATED

Nine hamsters were found dying from suffocation
in a petvshop window during a heat wave. The
manager, brought before Acton magistrates by
the RSPCA, was found guilty of causing UDDCCES’

sary suffering to the hamsters and was ﬁned £25,
as well as being ordered to pay £13 138. costs.

Evidence showed that a police constable, called
to the pet shop one Sunday morning, found ten
hamsters in a cage in the shop window.

It was a hot day, and the sun was shining on the
window. Nine of the animals appeared to be
dead. He contacted the defendant at his home
and he came to the shop. The defendant said:
‘I feed them last thing at night and ﬁrst thing
in the morning—but I suppose they’ve died as a
result of the heat in the window. Undoubtedly it
looks that way.’

The hamsters had food but the water bowl was
empty, said the officer.

‘One Alive’

Inspector Vincent told the court he examined
the animals and found only one alive. He took
them to a veterinary surgeon for examination.

Crossaexamined, the inspector said that he had
Visited the shop before and found it well run. He
agreed the staff had been issued with a set of in—
structions on the running of the shop and the
treatment of animals.

The veterinary surgeon was called. He said that
he performed a postvmortem on each of the dead
hamsters. ‘I came to the conclusion as a result of
the post—mortem that they died of suffocation due
to lack of oxygen. They died in a suffering state,’
he said.

The defendant said in evidence that it was the
duty of an employee to take all the livestock from
the window before the shop closed and to feed
and water them. On this occasion she must have
forgotten the hamsters.

At weekends and bank holidays he always
visited the shop himself to feed and water the
animals. He agreed that the hamsters had suffered,
but denied that he had not taken proper care of
them. ‘I love animals, all types of animals,’ he

said. (B 2473.)

 

DOG LEFT IN CAR—DIED

Counsel prosecuting for the RSPCA at Brighton
said that a Pekingese dog died after being shut in
a saloon car in the sun on the sea front while the
owner and his son went ﬁshing. A greengrocer
was ﬁned £10 and order to pay costs of 9 guineas,
for causing the dog unnecessary suffering. Coun—
sel said that the dog was left in the car at 1 p.m.,
‘at 6 pm. a police ofﬁcer found a hostile crowd
of 300 gathered round the car’. The dog was
lying dead on the ﬂoor. All the doors and win
dows were closed. ‘Undoubtedly it was a pro;
longed death.’ The defendant said that there was
adequate air from a ventilator. He had left a cup
of water for the dog. (B2660; Senior Inspector
Jackson.)

 




 

ANIMAfH

EWORLD

THE OFFICIAL MAGAZINE OF THE RSPCA

 

Vol LIII No IO New Series

OCTOBER I 958

PRICE FOURPENCE

63. per annum. Post Paid

 

 

HFE IN CHAINS

 

Chief Inspector T. Evans visited a cottage and
saw this brown lurcher type dog Chained to an
old cider press. The chain, weighing 4%- lb., was
extremely heavy for the dog.

For a collar, the dog had several feet of binding
twine and strips of cloth bound round the neck.

The Chief Inspector, like many of the Society’s
officers, is frequently confronted with the task of
relieving the distress of animals who spend a large
part of their lives on chains. The public is rightly
alarmed at the misery of such a life.

As the law stands at present, it is not an offence
to keep a dog for the whole of its life on a chain,
unless the condition of the dog gives rise to
suffering. (Humane people insist that to deprive
an animal of liberty is to cause it suffering, but
unfortunately this is not the legal View.)

In the present case, as the picture shows, the
animal was emaciated. There was no evidence of
any food having been given to the dog. Because
the dog had suffered from the effects of emaciav
tion, the RSPCA was able to take legal action.
(Case No. B3415.)

It happens that the owner of the dog was a

7anearvold woman unﬁtted to own animals, and
the Society took her before the magistrates main;
ly for the purpose of depriving her of the dog.

. She was conditionally discharged (on payment of

193. costs) and the Society was able to have her
disqualiﬁed from keeping a dog or holding a dog
licence for a period of two years. (The period of
disqualiﬁcation is decided by the magistrates, not
by the RSPCA.)

The dog was placed in a good home, with the
happy results shown in the second picture.

Inside the cottage, the Chief Inspector found a
crossbred Spaniel bitch tethered to furniture by a
heavy tackle and chain; on veterinary advice, this
animal was given a humane end. Two puppies,
about three months old, were found inside a deep
drawer. They have been placed with kind owners.

Until the law can be changed, the RSPCA will
strive by all the means in its power to educate the
public to the need of allowing dogs adequate
exercise and to an abhorrence of the practice of
keeping a dog permanently on a chain.

' EDITOR

 

 

WARNING

The four centre pages of this magazine are devoted to case reports, some of which are harrowing. Sensitive readers
are warned particularly that the two centre pages carry ILLUSTRATED case reports.

 




\

D
‘1

 

‘L “ 3'52“

 




v \V \ (V

 

October 1958

THE ANIMAL WORLD 111

 

for a while and ﬂy off, either to feed elsewhere or
merely to exercise her wings. On such occasions
I have not heard the female call; neither does the
brood take any notice of the parent’s departure.

The downy Tufted seem to learn to take bread.
At the various points where the public feed the
ducks, the newly—hatched downies appear quite
untrained and helpless amongst the seething mass
of larger ducks and ducklings dashing after food
thrown into the water. However, within a day or
two these tiny Tufted acquire the art of skipping
smartly across the water and snatching a morsel
almost from under the bill of another bird. This
practice is not without a risk of being seized and
shaken by a Mallard or some other species. Once,
after a pursuit for bread, there was a dead Tufted
duckling ﬂoating on the surface. A rather unv
scientiﬁc explanation was overheard at a feeding
point when an old drake Mallard seized a downy
Tufted by the head and shook it. As the, youngster
scuttled off, a typical cockney mother looked
down at her own rather subdued offspring in his
pushchair and said: ‘That’s whatcher get for being
naughty—a clout round the earholes from yer
mum!’

I do not think these types of attack on duck—
lings would have occurred if the downies had not
got too close to feeding birds. More deliberate
attacks, unassociated with activities at feeding
points (or with breeding behaviour) are, in my
experience, rare. I once saw a male Rosyrbilled
Duck, then three Redrcrested Pochard, attack a
lost tenadayvold Tufted. Happily, the youngster
got away after being pursued by an adult female
Tufted; otherwise, I felt conﬁdent, it would have
been killed. Uncommon though this may be, the
incident seemed to indicate the infectious nature

' of the behaviour.

In The Handbook it is stated that the female ‘at
ﬁrst brings up food by diving’, which I interpret
as meaning that when attending newlyvhatched
young the mother dives and disturbs matter
which surfaces and is eaten by the ducklings.
Although I have seen what I have taken to be this
feeding method on but a few occasions, it may
occur more frequently when there is a shortage of
insect or other food on or above the surface. Soon
after reaching water the tiny young tend to huddle
in a'group close to their mother and do not
immediately spread out in a broad fan around her.
A close grouping is obviously necessary when
food is being stirred up from below by the parent.
At intervals feeding activity ceases as the mother
leads her young ashore to brood them. Resting
places are often used for several days, or even
for a week or two, and at these dry spots the
downies cluster together either beneath or close
to their parent. Some females, especially in wet
weather, provide their offsprings with what
amounts to a waterproof tent. Standing rather

upright, with her back to the wind, the mother
depresses and spreads her tail and lowers both
wings perpendicularly like shutters so that the
leading primaries touch the ground (revealing
part of the white wingvbar). Into this threevsided
tent the young pile head ﬁrst, those nearest the
front entrance changing position by creeping into
the back door—under their mother’s tail.

This brooding method seems to be mOre usual
with small young or with the smallest broods of
slightly larger young, but ducklings aged about
two weeks or over tend to brood themselves by
clustering together slightly apart from their
mother. At this stage in the ﬂedging period
Tufted mothers may lead their young to highly
suitable brooding spots, and I can recall no
prettier picture than eight downy Tufted ﬁtted
snugly into an old Coot’s nest with the parent
standing guard close by. I have also known
Pochard to use an old Coot’s nest for the same
purpose, and on the North Kent marshes remem—
ber a Mallard and brood regularly using a vacated
Mute Swan’s nest in the latter half of the ﬂedging
period.

When female Tufted are brooding their young
ashore they often go through the motions of
arranging a nest around the brood, including
pulling tiny bits of grass and leaves to them. This
behaviour serves no apparent purpose and may
be a carry—over of nest maintenance which occurs
in the incubation period. One female, who some;
times took her (under ten days old) downy on to
an old Coot’s nest for brooding, would pull at
large sticks firmly embedded in the structure,
which demonstrates the apparent uselessness of
the activity.

Tufted mothers seem to observe a territorial
spacing which is especially noticeable when fami—
lies are ashore, and it is distinctly unusual to see
two females and broods standing side by side
together. The reason for this may be that the
close approach of strange ducks to a brood
invokes defensive action by the parent. This
triggering—off of defence behaviour is more marked
with some mothers than with others. Innocent
Mallard, Gadwall, Coots, and other Tufted with
broods, have suddenly been forcefully attacked
for no other reason than happening to swim close
to a mother and brood. Usually a brief but sharp
scufﬂe ensues in which the attacked are seized by
the wing. There is a lot to be said in favour of
attack being the best means of defence.

 

CHRISTMAS CARDS AND CALENDARS. Apply with
stamped addressed envelope for descriptive leaflet:
RSPCA, 105 lermyn Street, London, SW!

 




 

ROYAL SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS

Founded 1824

Headquarters: 105 Jermyn Street, London, S.W.1

P A T R O N S
HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN
HER MAJESTY QUEEN ELIZABETH, THE QUEEN MOTHER
HER ROYAL HIGHNESS PRINCESS ALICE COUNTESS OF ATHLONE
HER ROYAL HIGHNESS PRINCESS ARTHUR OF CONNAUGHT

PRESIDENT
SIR MALCOLM SARGENT, HON LLD, D MUS, FRCM, FRSA

VICE-PRESIDENT S

THE EARL OF SHAFTESBURY, KP, PC

LT-COL SIR THOMAS MOORE, BART, CBE, MP

ANTHONY GREENWOOD, ESQ, MP

 

THE COUNCIL

Chairman: LT-COL J. C. LOCKWOOD, JP, TD
Vice-Chairman: MRS WALLIS POWER, JP

AGIUS, THE REV DOM AMBROSE, 088, MA
AILWYN, THE RT HON LORD
*ALLIBERT, MRS
*ALSOP, ALDERMAN A. 1., FRCA, FCIS, JP
*EELL, G. R., ESQ
BERTIE or THAME, THE RT HON THE VISCOUNTESS
ERANSOM, MISS L. G., FRSA
BYWATER, H. E., ESQ, MRCVS
COLLINSON, MISS N. M.
COPE, MRS JOHN
COTTERELL, LT-COL J. M. v., OBE

*EVANS, MRS DAVID, BA

GARDNER, HON JULIET
HOBHOUSE, J. S., ESQ

*HUNTER, MISS
LEE, MRS E. M.

LONGMAN, MRS W.

DORCHESTER, LT-COL THE RT HON LORD, OBE, JP
*DOWDELL, MRS M. R.
ESTCOURT-OSWALD, MISS AGNES, ME (LOND), DPH
(CANTAE). DOMS

 

GALWAY, THE DOWAGER VISCOUNTESS
HOWELL, BASIL P., ESQ, MBE

LLEWELLYN, THE REV CANON LEONARD, L TH

MACNAGHTEN, A. 1., ESQ, BA
*MCPHAIL, MRS ALISON LETITIA, MB, CH B
MOORE, LT-COL SIR THOMAS, BART, CBE, MP

*Denotes Branch Representative

POULETT, THE RT HON THE EARL
*PRITCHARD, MRS D.
*RATIRAY, R. F., ESQ, MA, PH D
*RIECK, H. H., ESQ
SIBLY, w. A., ESQ, MA, JP
SNELL, ALDERMAN THE REV PREEENDARY L. J. n.
MEE, TD, HON CF (HEREPORD)
*TArr, MRS, MA
*WALFORD, MRS DESBOROUGH
WARDS, COLONEL, GT, CMG, OEE
*WHITE, HARRY, ESQ, FCA
WILLERT, SIR ARTHUR, KBE
*WINCHESTER. F. 1., ESQ, PCIS, FSS
WOOLLEY, SIR CHARLES, GBE, KCMG, CMG, MC

 

 

OFFICE BEARERS APPOINTED BY THE COUNCIL

Hon Treasurer—HARRY WHITE, ESQ. FCA
Deputy Hon Treasurer—H. H. RIECK, ESQ
Hon Medical Ofﬁcer—A. N. CRAWFORD, ESQ, FRCSI
Bankers—MESSRS COUTTS AND CO, STRAND, LONDON

Telegrams—WHITEHALL 7 l 7 7

Chief Secretary—JOHN HALL, ESQ
Assistant Secretaries—D. A. L. CAMM, ESQ, BA
ALLAN JOINER, ESQ
Legal Secretary—R. MURRAY, ESQ
Chief Veterinary Ofﬁcer—LT—COL D. I. C. TENNANT, MRcvs, MRSH

Auditors—MESSRS VINEY, PRICE AND GOODYEAR, CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS

Telephone—Whitehall 7177

PONIES TO CANADA

The trip made last year by an experienced
RSPCA observer when he accompanied a con—
signment of ponies from Avonmouth to Mon—
treal is recalled by the Society in considering the
Orders now issued by the Ministry of Agriculture
on the export of ponies. The Orders, which came
into effect on August 18, embody reforms sug
gested by the RSPCA, and with these the Society
expresses satisfaction, but there is disappointment
that the Orders are not more far—reaching. The
Society 1nas advocated that no unregistered mare
pony should be exported and that no unregistered
pony, under the age of 12 months, should be
exported.

In April of this year, the Ministry of Agricul~
ture promised that care would be taken to see
that pens on board ship were not overcrowded
and that their dimensions would be appropriate
to the Size of ponies put in them. A second
promise was that where a mare travelled with
foal at foot no other horse would be put in the
same pen. As these two reforms are not touched
by the new Orders the RSPCA asked what ad—
ministrative action would be taken to ensure that
they were put into effect. The Ministry assured
the Society that all port veterinary surgeons would
be instructed to ensure these things were done.

Ponies in this trade are mainly for use as
children’s pets. The trafﬁc began in 1956, when
Shetland ponies went across the Atlantic from
Glasgow; later ponies from Wales and Dartmoor
began to travel, and the RSPCA persuaded
shippers to use Bristol and save the long journey
overland to Glasgow.

Orders

Two Orders have been issued. The purpose of
The Exported Ponies Protection Order, 1958, is
to ensure that no pony, apart from certain high
quality animals, is shipped by sea or air from
Great Britain to any place outside Europe unless
it has been inspected by a Veterinary Inspector
immediately before going on board and certified
as ﬁt to be conveyed to its destination.

The Horses (Sea Transport) Amendment
Order, 1958, amends The Horses (Sea Trans;
port) Order, 1952, in three respects. Lighting in
the parts of a ship in which horses are carried
must be dimmed at night; the owner of a vessel
carrying horses must provide a person experia
enced in the handling of horses to be responsible
for their care; and all ships carrying horses must
be provided with means of access to the horses
carried below deck in addition to hatchways.

 

 




 

110 THE ANIMAL WORLD

Reprinted from BIRD NOTES, oﬂicial magazine of
the Royal Society for the Protection of Birds.

SOME NOTES ON TUFTED DUCKS
AND THEIR YOUNG IN
ST. JAMES’S PARK, LONDON

By ERIC GILLHAM

Small, downy Tufted ducklings usually feed in a
broad arc about their mother who guides them to
suitable parts of the lake. When, however, the
brood is feeding as the family travels on water,
it is not always easy to decide whether the downies
are being ‘steered’, or are, in fact, leading their
parent as they fan out over the water ahead of her.

For the ﬁrst ten days or so of their lives, if good
" weather prevails, the ducklings seem to feed
largely on insects, either snapped from the air or
taken with other matter from the surface. This
does not mean that the smallest ducklings do not
dive for food at all. On the contrary, The Hand;
book states that the young learn to dive in a few
hours, though in my experience they can dive
instinctively as soon as they ﬁrst reach water. On
one occasion, a female making short ﬂights over a
restricted water area for some ﬁve minutes, and
calling frantically, had me bafﬂed as there were no
ducklings to be seen. The reason for this be—
haviour was apparent when a park attendant
came hurrying along with ﬁve downies in his arms.
The brood, he told me, was en route to the lake
from a nest in a ﬂower bed opposite Buckingham
Palace when the female left them to make their
own way to water. On being released the young
rejoined their mother, who was the bird I had
been watching, and without seeing any duck or
duckling dive, were, within a minute, themselves
diving as expertly as any twovweeks—old. This was
not the only newly—hatched brood observed div—
ing within minutes of ﬁrst taking to water.

Tufted Duck
incubating

[Photo: A. W. P. Robertson]

October 1958

In cold and wet weather, when insects are
noticeably scarce, it is necessary for the newly
hatched Tufted to dive for food though some
broods are conducted by their mother round the
stone facings edging the lake. Here the ducklings
feed on matter clinging to the stonework just
below the surface for which it is necessary to
upend. This upending is performed with the aid
of rapid paddling and is a much less digniﬁed
affair than is usual with an adult Tufted on the
infrequent occasions that this method of feeding
is resorted to.

As ducklings race after insects they not ina
frequently lose contact with their mother. Either
they get out of range of the constant harsh call
with which she seems to be controlling their
movements, or they just take no notice. Occasion!
ally a female loses all her young, temporarily, and
for a while may do nothing about recovering
them. Suddenly she is galvanized, into activity
and ﬂies up and down the lake, dropping into the
water at intervals and calling loudly. Sighting a
lot of ducklings—perhaps several broods mixed
up together—she will ﬂop into the water nearby,
giving the same harsh call. Then, as if discipline
was second nature, a troop of unbelievably
obedient downies rush to join her.

One mother who lost her two ducklings on a
summer’s evening was making a terriﬁc fuss at
the end of the lake opposite to where her off,
springs had wandered. Eventually she quietened
down and began to preen and make no further
effort to locate them. Fifteen minutes later she
lifted and, climbing high, headed over London
towards the Serpentine. As dusk approached the
young were still feeding unconcernedly alone,
which made me wonder whether the mother had
left them for good. The following morning, how,
ever, my doubts were set aside, for at halfrpast

‘ seven the family were together again.

Sometimes a brood female will leave her young

 

 




 

 

112 THE ANIMAL WORLD

October 1958

 

 

THE RSPCA AT WORK

 

AUGUST 19 58
RSPCA INSPECTORS

2,126 Complaints of cruelty investigated.
46 Offenders ﬁned.
20 Persons guilty of minor acts of cruelty cautioned in writing.
659 Registered cautions were administered by Inspectors.

CLASSIFICATION OF CONVICTIONS

HORSES—Working in an unﬁt state . .. 3
CATTLE—Neglecting, conveying in improper manner . .. 2
PIGS—Beating o o o o o v 9 o o o o o t v 1
DOGS—Neglecting, beating, shooting and wounding,
killing in improper manner, etc. . .. 17
CATS—Neglecting, killing in improper manner . .. 10
RABBIT—Causing to be worried by dogs 2
OFFENCES UNDER THE PROTECTION OF BIRDS ACT, 1954:
Killing O C . O O O Q Q C O 9 . O 0 O 6
Shooting ' O O O O O O O O . ’ Q 9 O O 1
Taking . Q . O C O ' 9 O O O O C ' . 1
VARIOUS OPEENCES:
Permitting in offences 2
Infringement of the Veterinary Surgeons Act,
1948 . O O O C O ' O O . 9 O O O O 1
TOTAL NUMBER OF CONVICTIONS 46

During AUGUST 1958, Magistrates, at the request of the
RSPCA, disqualiﬁed TEN persons from owning a dog or holding
a dog licence. Disqualiﬁcations were as follows:

TWO for 2 years; ONE for 3 years; FOUR for 5 years; ONE for
10 years; Two for 20 years.

Total number of COMPLAINTS from January Ist 15,573
Total number of CONVICTIONS from January Ist 540

Total number of CAUTIONS from January 151: 5,376

HEADQUARTERS CLINICS

No. of animals handled:
Cats 5,492 Dogs 4,573 Misc., 1,610 Total 11,675
No of animals given emergency ﬁrst aid: 2,780

PUTNEY CONVALESCENT WARD

No. of animals handled:
Dogs 92 Cats 15 Misc., 3 Total 110

NIGHT STAFF
No. of calls received: 1,514

No. of animals given emergency ﬁrst aid: 32

N o. of animals treated by Veterinary Surgeon: 230

N o. of animals rescued: 17

No. of Inspection complaints: 6

Miles covered by ambulance in respect of urgent calls: 2,854

NORTH WALES UNIT
First aid cases:
Cats 29 Dogs 65 Misc., 10 Total 104

N o. of animals handled by Unit:
Cats 265 Dogs 147 Misc., 12 Total 424

No. of miles covered by Unit: 2,300
DEVON & CORNWALL UNIT

First aid cases:
Cats 23 Dogs 43 Misc., 4 Total 70

No. of animals handled by Unit:
Cats 84 Dogs 65 Misc., 9 Total 158

No. of miles covered by Unit: 2,034
SOUTH WALES MOBILE UNIT

First aid cases:
Cats 42 Dogs 207 Misc., 51 Total 300

No. of animals handled by Unit:
Cats 271 Dogs 252 Misc., 55 Total 578

No. of miles covered by Unit: 1,104
AWARDS

CURRENT AWARDS UNDER REVIEW

FILMS

RSPCA FILMS BORROWED 50
SHOWINGS 105

EDUCATION

RECORDS FOR 1957

INSPECTION
COMPLAINTS .. 24,942
CONVICTIONS . . . . . . . . . . . . 852
. 8,596

CAUTIONS

HEADQUARTERS CLINICS
No. of animals handled: 135,570

NIGHT STAFF
No. of calls: 15,671

 




114 THE ANIMAL WORLD October1958

 

 

LIVE BIRDS PLUCKED

ln an attempt to disguise seven hens he had stolen, a sixty-
year-old miner plucked feathers from their necks while they
were still alive.

On the neck of one of the birds RSPCA lnspector Wood
found that the feathers had been pulled out in an area about
the size of the palm of his hand; the skin was bruised in two
places and was slightly broken. He found another bird with
a blood-stained neck and feathers missing; a piece of flesh
had been ripped out of its neck and showed a wound about
two inches long by one-and-a-half inches wide.

For causing the birds unnecessary suffering the miner was
brought before Barnsley Magistrates by the RSPCA and he
was fined £l0 and ordered to pay £5 3s. costs. (B.3l48)

 

 

STRAY—BEFORE —AND AFTER

 

The cringing pitiful dog was collected by RSPCA Birming- second picture shows the change in the dog’s condition.
ham from a local Police Station. The unhappy stray was lnvestigations were made to find the original owner, who .
provided with a home by a member of the staff and the had so neglected the dog, but inquiries were fruitless. “‘7‘

 

COTTON SHACKLES

This picture illustrates what happens when black cotton
thread becomes entangled round the legs of a pigeon. The
bird was found by children and was handed to lnspector
Morris. The lnspector’s opinion was that the cotton had
been tied deliberately round the legs. The bird had to be
given a humane end as the legs were useless after the cotton
had been cut away. The lnspector is seeking the culprits.

[Photo by courtesy of the Barrow News and Mail]

 




 

 

 

116 THE ANIMAL WORLD

October 195 8

 

 

BUTCHER CHOPPED OFF
PUPPY’S TAIL

A woman who thought her puppy dog’s tail was
too long mentioned it to a butcher, who took
the greater part of the tail off on his slab.

At Battle Magistrates’ Court he was ﬁned a
total of £4 with £4 costs for practising as a
veterinary surgeon while not registered and un—
lawfully operating on a dog without the use of an
anaesthetic. There were two charges; the ﬁne in
each offence was £2; costs in each offence were £2.

He pleaded guilty to each of the two suma
monses.

Counsel prosecuting on behalf of the RSPCA
said that a housewife went into the defendant’s
shop with her cocker spaniel dog, which was then
abOut seven weeks old.

She thought the dog’s tail was a little too long
and mentioned it. Then, whether at the butcher’s
suggestion or hers, the dog was placed on the
butcher’s slab and the butcher then cut off a
major part of the dog’s tail, leaving about an inch
of stump.

RSPCA counsel said the operation must have
been excruciatingly painful.

Continuing, he said that an RSPCA Inspector
shortly afterwards found the dog suffering and
called in a veterinary surgeon who said the opera—
tion had been done in a most clumsy manner.

The butcher had told the Inspector it was only
like cutting an oxtail. He did not know it was

illegal. (13.1762.)

 

Cat in ’Deplorable Condition’

A young black cat belonging to a widow was in
such a deplorable condition when it was taken to
a veterinary surgeon by an RSPCA inspector, he
was incensed, said RSPCA counsel at Woking
court. _

The widow pleaded not guilty to causing un—
necessary suffering to the cat, which died 36
hours after being taken to the veterinary surgeon.

A police constable said that one day he noticed
the cat in his garden. It had a wound on the side
of the face and its eye was swollen. It ran away.
Later, the cat again came into his garden in a very
distressed condition. It had. difﬁculty in walking
and was obviously in great pain. After feeding
the animal he started to treat the wound on the
face and discovered another wound on the neck.

‘Knew it was Injured’

After informing the RSPCA he saw the widow,
who said: ‘I knowit was injured. It came in one
morning bleeding. I have treated it with boracic.’

Inspector L. G. Scruton said that the animal’s
eye was half closed and it was dirty, starving and

had ﬂeas.

A veterinary surgeon gave evidence that the cat
was in a weak and toxic condition with abscesses
on the face and below the jaw. There was evidence
of infected bone. The condition would have been
progressive over a period and the cat’s distress
would have been obvious. He thought that from
the initial bite which caused the abscesses there
would have been 10 to 14 days for the condition
to develop.

The defendant admitted she had not sent for a
veterinary surgeon.

The Chairman of the Bench said to her: ‘You
have been found guilty of a crime which fortunv
ately we do not often have here. It was a most
revolting crime against a dumb animal. Had it not
been for the kind, humane feeling of that police
man we should not have heard of this unhappy
cat to which you caused such inhuman torture.’

The Bench allowed her two months in which
to pay a ﬁne of £5 plus £3 17s. 6d. costs. (B2016)

 

CAT LEFT IN HOUSE

‘We think it was more thoughtlessness than
cruelty’, said the Magistrate at Blackpool, when
a man and his wife were each ﬁned 40$. for caus—
ing unnecessary suffering to a cat and ordered to
pay £1 75. 6d. costs.

A solicitor prosecuting for the RSPCA alleged
that the cat was left at their prefabricated house
from March 29 to April 2 without proper sup—
plies of food and drink, when they went to stay
with the woman’s mother, who was ill. They
visited the cat from time to time, but it was
apparently left for five days.

Deplorable State

Two neighbours saw the cat in the sun in the
window with its tongue hanging out; it was in a
deplorable state, said one. They put some meat
and water through the letter box.

They, of course, did not know to which ad—
dress the defendants had gone and the matter
was reported to the RSPCA. Senior Inspector
Heyes arrived and the cat was absolutely ravenous
and reduced to skin and bone.

The male defendant said that on March 28 he
took a pint of milk and a tin of cat meat which
he put out for the cat. He also filled a bowl with
water.

His wife went the following night with food.
He intended going on the Monday, but some«
thing prevented him. The cat was naturally thin
and he would not say it was starved by any means.

His wife said she went up on March 29 with
eat meat, cake and milk, sufﬁcient for two days.
She was unable to go again because of her

mother’s illness. (B2204)

 

 




 

 

118‘ THE ANIMAL WORLD

 

 

The Outside Cat by Jane Thayer, illustrated by
Feodor Rojankovsky. Published by the Brock;
hampton Press, Ltd, Leicester Price 103. 6d.

This story of a persistent little stray cat who
got himself adopted by a family will appeal to
cat lovers of all ages, though its very brief reading
matter and the general format of the book are
designed for the 6 to 9 yearvold.

It IS delightfully written, charmingly illustrated
and spaciously produced. Its only drawback is
its price!

L. B.

 

COLLECTIONS

(We give wherever possible the place at which the collection was
made and the name of the organizer or organizers )

House—to-House
£ 3. cl.
Mirﬁeld, Miss A. L. Duxbury (aux hon sec)... 46 O 4
Bury, Ramsbottom, Haslingden and Rawten—
stall, Mr E. B. Jones (branch hon sec) 129 1 O
Whiteﬁeld, Mrs Schoﬁeld (aux hon sec) 8O 0 O
Epping Green, Miss M. Bailes (aux hon sec)” 7 O O
Kintbury, Miss Hume (aux hon sec) 14 7 3
Long Wittenham, Mrs Hewett (aux hon sec)::. 12 15 O
Doncaster, MrJ. Morrison (branch hon sec)... 10 14 1
Eckington, Mrs Clegg (aux hon sec). 9 10 O
Huddersﬁeld, Mrs Cumming Bell (branch hon
sec) 363 18 10
Helston and Kerrier, Mrs Dransﬁeld (aux hon
sec) 51 16 11
Bath, MrJ. Hobhouse (branch chairman) 347 11 4
Bucklebury Upper, Mrs Hamilton (aux hon
sec) .. 25 2 2
Breconshire, Mrs Bagshawe (branch hon sec) 54 18 6
West Hartlepool, Miss N. McAuslan (branch
hon sec) .. 106 0 7
Penistone, Mrs Brierley (aux hon sec) 16 4 3
Caerphilly, Mrs Aubrey (aux hon sec) 20 3 8
Barry, Mrs Arnel (aux hon sec) 97 7 4
FLAG DAYS
£ 5. cl.
Northwich, Mrs M. Wragg (aux hon sec) 43 1 0
Chester, Mrs H. Taylor (branch hon sec) 501 10 O
Abergavenny, Mr Alfred Jackson (aux hon
sec) . 78 9 6
Seaton, Miss N. M. Gould (aux hon sec) 34 1 9
Harrogate, Mr G. Barrer (branch hon sec) 125 9 6
NewtonvlevWillows, Mrs W. Beaman (aux hon
sec) .. 47 14 6
Gillingham (Kent), Mrs L. J. Bromley (div hon
sec) . 73 10 6
Faringdon, Mrs R. Wilkins 35 5 8
St Annes— —on Sea, Mr C. Whittaker (aux hon
- sec) ... 86 4 5
Bridgwater, MrsJ. Scott (aux hon sec) ‘ 137 19 2
Fowey, Mrs E. Guest (aux hon sec) 30 7 3
Lynton and Lynmouth, Mrs Witney Jones
(aux co hon sec) .. 31 14 8
Barton -—on Humber, Mr W. Cross (aux hon
sec) .. 54 0 O
Thornton Cleveleys, Mrs D. Shaw (aux hon
see) . 50 O 7
Port Talbot, Miss E. Rees (branch hon sec):: 115 O O
Wooler, Mrs]. H. lnnes (aux hon sec) ... 32 4 O
Rawmarsh, Yorks (Park Gate mWorks), Mrs
Young ... 12 11 7

October 1958

£ 5. cl.

Rawmarsh (New Stubbin Colliery), Mrs Young 8 1 11

Nuneaton, Mrs D’Arcy Tremlett (aux hon sec) 340 O O
Whaley Bridge, Cheshire, Mrs H. M. Ragdale

(aux hon sec)... 34 3 9
Wellingborough and District, Miss A. E.

Masters (aux hon sec) 104 O O
Porthcawl, Mrs V. L. Hands (aux hon sec) 131 9 2
Walsall, Mr S. Long (branch hon sec) 258 16 1
Pontypridd, Mrs Bowden (aux hon sec) 57 7 0
Plymouth .. 118 9 7
Southend ——on Sea 292 16 9
Bilston 44 10 7
Crudwell, Mrs A. D. Godwin (aux hon sec): 10 O 0
East and West Wittering, Mrs R. Sheppard

(aux hon sec)... ... 63 O O
Lancing, Sussex, MissI. .E. Tebbutt 32 12 7
Cumberland West Branch (County Collection) 468 9 9
Weymouth 221 13 5
Christchurch and Mudeford Lt Col L. C.

Harris (aux hon sec)... .. 65 'O 6
Lockmeadow Market, Maidstone 34 7 0
Forest of Dean, Miss P. R. Morse (div hon

sec) 158 O O
Alfreton, Mrs Hamilton (aux hon sec), Mrs

Doar and Mrs Harris 111 11 8
Colchester, Dr A. Estcourt Oswald (Council

Member and branch hon sec) 190 2 3
Saltburn by Sea, Mrs Hart (branch hon sec)... 35 4 0
Leyburn, Miss E. Milburn (aux hon sec) 25 2 9
Thirsk, Mrs Morris (aux hon sec) 22 19 8
Sittingbourne, Mrs M Draper (div hon .sec)” 199 9 0
Bolton, Mrs B. Baxendale .. 222 18 6
Newbury Borough approx. 120 O O
Clitheroe, Mrs G. Forrest (aux hon sec) 165 17 9
Prestatyn, Miss Dawson (aux hon sec) . 62 0 O
Barnsley, Mrs E. M. Wilkinson (branch hon

sec) .. 258 15
Chorley, Mrs E. France (aux hon sec) 216 12
Ringwood, Mrs Felling (aux hon sec) . 72 13

Newton Abbot, Mrs M. V. Dodds (branch hon

ec) 54 18
Ilfracombe and District, Mr and Mrs W. A. J.

Lovering (aux co hon secs)... 175 19
Abersoch, Miss Sandys Wunsch (aux hon sec) 75 8
Dartford, Mrs E Bradshaw (aux hon sec) 87 2
Watchet, Mrs E S. Hayman (aux hon sec). 30 O
Stroud, Mrs E. M. Porri (branch hon sec) 116 O
Grimsby, Mrs Bainborough (branch hon sec) 99 2

Cleethorpes, Mrs Bainborough (branch hon
sec) .. 46 10
Ludlow, Capt S. A. J. Brazier (aux hon sec).. 29 7

FURNESS AND BARROW BRANCH

.pm «loo-dove- 00 Nerd

£ 5. d.

Ulverston, Mr G. Calderbank (branch hon
sec) 66 4 1
Dalton 1n Furness, Mrs Jones (aux co hon sec) 18 5 O
Coniston, Miss Pirie (aux hon sec). 22 18 9
Hawkshead, Miss Warriner (aux hon sec) 22 1 6
Lake Side and Newby Bridge, Mrs Chamley.. 18 16 4
Cartmel, Mr G. Calderbank (branch hon sec) 25 3 2

£173 8 10

BERKSHIRE COUNTY

Collections for the BerkshirevNewbury and District Branch

5. cl.

Thatcham (North Side), Mrs B. M. North
(aux hon sec) 5 1 O
Woolton Hill, Miss E. M. Aird (aux hon sec) 6 6 8
Kingsclere, Mrs D. M. Edwards (aux hon sec) 11 15 O
Winterbourne, Miss A. Baylis (aux hon sec)... 2 4 6

 

 

 




 

 

 

120 . THE ANIMAL WORLD

October 1958

 

 

IT PAYS TO ADVERTISE

The remarkable ﬁnancial results of functions
organized in Bath led us to inquire how it was
done, and a letter received from Mr J. S. Hob—
house, Chairman of the Bath and District Branch
and a member of the RSPCA Council, is illumin’
ating.

The key word seems to be: advertising! A good
example of how it pays to advertise lies in the
story behind the increased income for the Christ
mas Bazaar. Mr Hobhouse writes:

‘Many Branch or Auxiliary Secretaries may
have hesitated in the past to spend money on
advertising local money raising functions such
as Bazaars, etc—partly due perhaps to lack of
experience in preparing the actual wording of
the advertisement itself. The result in Bath

)))

should convince any “waverers .

Shilling Wise .

Mr Hobhouse discovered that the normal appeal

to ‘give generously’ met with a response of penny
—-and often halfpenny—donations.

The Branch house to house collection usually
brings in about £250. This year the Branch spent
an extra £15 on three advertisements. These,
inserted in the local newspaper, told the public
some tangible details of work done for sick
animals and for unwanted dogs and cats. It
concluded:

1 ‘We get no Government aid; if you approve

of this work please give a shilling to our House
to House collector.’
Silver ousted copper from the collecting tins

to such effect that receipts went up from £250 to
£350.

Editor’s Note:

Mr Hobhouse modestly says nothing of the hard work
done by him and all his helpers, Without which no
success—as other branch hon ofﬁcials know—can be
achieved. We understand from the Chief Secretary
that more speciﬁc details on What exactly to do in the
way of advertising for improved results Will be pub—
lished in an early issue of the Chief Secretary’s letter to
hon secretaries.

 

@bituary

With sincere regret we report the following
deaths: Mr E. G. Clark, former joint hon treas.
Leeds branch; Mrs K. E. Hill, supporter, Mr
H. C. Humphrys, former President, RSPCA

British Guiana branch.

 

FIRST SEA LORD PRESENTS
The RSPCA award to Alan Parnell, aged 13, who

helped to rescue a swan from a frozen lake, was
presented to him by Earl Mountbatten, the First
Sea Lord. The presentation was made on the
Training Ship Arethusa.

 

 

 

All inquiries to

Telephone: HOP 2476 (3 lines)
Telegrams: HOBSON, SEDIST, LONDON

 

 

unite-mime

HOBSON & SONS
(LONDON) LTD

154-164 TOOLEY STREET
LONDON BRIDGE S.E.l

Manufacturers of

UNIFORM CLOTHING
CAPS HELMETS LEATHER
BELTS POUCHES etc. etc.

Gold and Silver Laces
Embroideries of every
description for ALL
UNIFORMED SERVICES

PATTERNS OF CLOTH
and ESTIMATES
will be forwarded free of charge

 

 

 

 

 

 

__~\

 

 




I

rmwwmmmwwwwawwwww wmwwwzv mmwzwzwmwmwwww wwm
oi

RSPCA CHRISTMAS MARKET
FILM SHOW

to be held at the

SEYMOUR HALL, LONDON, WI
on November I9 and 20, I958

I2 noon to 8 p.m.

ADMISSION I/- EACH DAY
The Film Shows will take place at approximately 2 p.m., 3.|5 p.m., 4.45 p.m., 6.|5 p.m. (both days)

 

Admission Tickets (l0 tickets to each book) are available and we hope supporters of the Society will take books
in order to sell tickets amongst their friends. Lucky number prizes for tickets sold before November l9

A suggested selection of goods which usually ﬁnd a ready sale and are, therefore, gratefully
accepted for the Stalls:
Jewellery (even if broken, provided the broken pieces contain gold or silver)
Knitted Wear (particularly for children, boys and men)
Odd lengths of material (new), including remnants
Household Goods and Linens
Bric-a—brac Toys in good condition
Tinned Goods Sweets and Chocolates
China and Glass Antiques
Cosmetics and Soap Fancy Goods
Biscuits Fruit and Vegetables
Cakes and Groceries Books
Trinkets Stationery

WINES, SPIRITS and CIGARETTES (for Raffle Prizes)
New and Second-hand Clothes, BUT ONLY if clean and wearable

ln;fact, all saleable goods, particularly seasonable gifts are welcome, but large pieces of furniture
CANNOT be accommodated
Please address parcels to:
THE APPEALS DEPARTMENT
RSPCA
l05 Jermyn Street, London, SWI
N.B.—|t is a great help if parcels and gifts can be forwarded by the ﬁrst week in November as this facilitates sorting

and pricing where necessary; it is also useful if donors will attach labels to their gifts with suggested prices.
Parcels should not be sent direct to the Seymour Hall.

 

................................................................... Tearhere

Please send me .................................... books of admission tickets to RSPCA CHRISTMAS MARKET.
(Mr)

NAME (Mrs) .................. . ....................................................................................................................
(Miss) (Block Letters)

ADDRESS ..........................................................................................................................................

 

”(you are unable to help either as suggested above or by taking a book of tickets, perhaps you would like to send
a onatlon. ‘

I enclose £ : s. d. as a donation to Christmas Market.
Please return to: RSPCA (Appeals Department), |05 Jermyn Street, SWI

W mwmwww wwwwwmmwwwwmmwwmwwm'yzcﬂwmv mwwmmw mmmmcyzv/‘wwmmmmv

§
§

ﬁvmwwwwwmwwmwmcamwwmmcmmwmwcauawumwmwmwwwmm @WJ@%W>%V@%%@%%@%‘

wmwwwwmwv %%@W5W)%W3%W)W>WIW %%%%%W}%W>W>%%W3W>W3%%

 

Printed by Shenval Press, Simson Shand Ltd, London, Hertford and Harlow, and
published by John Hall for the RSPCA at 105 Jermyn Street, London, SW71

 

 

 




